 Gil Nickel, a onetime guided-missile expert from Oklahoma who became a prominent wine producer in the Napa Valley, died on Thursday at his home in Oakville, Calif. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. Armed with little more than an amateur's enthusiasm for wine,
 James O'Gara, who led the influential Catholic magazine Commonweal for more than three decades and maintained it as a powerful voice of liberalism in the church, died on Oct. 22 in Catonsville, Md. He was 85. Mr. O'Gara joined Commonweal during the McCarthy era, guided it in the 196
 Lynn S. Beedle, a leader and creative force in the study, design and building of skyscrapers, died on Thursday at his home in Hellertown, Pa. He was 85. A structural engineer and a longtime professor at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., Dr. Beedle was renowned in the construction
 DAL MOLIN--Armando, 86, Italian-born inventor of the music typewriter, musician, engineer, family man, and avid skier. His business, Music Typographers, of Oyster Bay, NY, engraved most of the music published in the 60's and 70's, earning him numerous Paul Revere Awards and recognition in t
 GRAUBARD -- Seymour. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sy Graubard. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Peter J. Baum, President Stuart Bednoff, Secretary       
 MENDLOWITZ--Milton, M.D. October 30, 2003. Dearest husband of Muriel, nee Chertoff. Devoted father of Judith Chertoff Berman, Susan Burnette and Benjamin Mendlowitz. Adored grandfather of nine and great-grandfather. He was a Professor Emeritus at Mount Sinai Hospital where he was affiliated
 VANAUKEN--Charles (Van). 78, died on October 30, 2003. A talented and creative diamond cutter for over 50 years on 47th Street, NYC. He was a passionate outdoorsman who loved nature. An avid fisherman his entire life. Beloved husband of Estelle, loving father of Mark, Allison, Denise and Jo
 Robert J. Barnes, a makeup salesman who spent a quarter-century building Estée Lauder into one of the best-selling brands in cosmetics, died on Sunday at his home in Monarch Beach, Calif. He was 86. He had been suffering from lung cancer, said his son, John. Mr. Barnes join
 Seymour Graubard, the chairman of the Anti-Defamation League in the 1970's and an outspoken opponent of anti-Semitism and advocate for Soviet Jews, died on Wednesday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92. Formerly of the Upper East Side, he lived in Seattle and Palm Beach after retiring fro
 William F. Draper, a portrait painter and former combat artist who depicted many of the world's wealthiest and most powerful, died at his home in Manhattan on Sunday. He was 90. In Mr. Draper's five-decade career, his subjects included President Richard M. Nixon, Mayor John V. Linds
 ARNSTEIN--Dr. Robert Leo of Hamden, CT, Psychiatristin-Chief Emeritus of the Yale University Health Service, died October 27, 2003, at age 84. Dr. Arnstein is survived by his wife of 56 years, Mary Benjamin Arnstein, and their children, Katharine Arnstein of Brighton, MA, Douglas Arnstein, 
 BERMAN--Neal James. Dear son of the late Marcelle and Randall. Loving brother of Robert and Leslie. Cherished uncle of Andrew, Michael, Koby and Andrew. Loving friend. Worked with his father and sister in the family business, Randall I. Berman, Jeweler.       
 BRODIE--Sheldon, 77, died peacefully in FL after a long illness. He was a Professor of Clinical Dermatology at NYU Medical School and Chief of Service, Skin & Cancer Unit where he was an attending physician for 40 years. He had a private practice in Beth Page, LI. He loved his work and his 
 CAMERILLO--John, 64. Of Manhattan, N.Y. Passed peacefully on October 8, 2003. He was an Army veteran. He leaves three sisters and two brothers and will be missed.       
 DWORKIN--William. October 29, 2003 in New York. He would have been 76 November 9th. He was long active in marketing books on art and architecture, notably at Harry N. Abrams, and then at Rizzoli where he was Vice President for Sales and Associate Editor. He gravitated to publishing out of h
 FUHR--Abraham. Suddenly on October 27, 2003, of Long Beach and Newburgh, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Sheila. Loving father of Edward and Lois, Randi and Paul. Devoted brother and uncle. Adoring grandfather of Reid, Spencer, Sarah and Benjamin. Cherished friend of Janine. He was a gentl
 GANIN--Saul. Beloved husband of Geraldine. Loving father of Terry and Jeff Zegans, Steven and Abbie Ganin and Beth and Dr. Alan Mitchell. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Jason and Brian Zegans, Ashley and Danielle Ganin, and Jordyn and Alison Mitchell. President of Ganin Tire Co. Inc. He 
 GRAUBARD--Seymour, 92, died October 29 in Palm Beach of a heart attack. He had had his martini, was having dinner with his daughter and some friends, and collapsed while cheerfully discussing how to defeat President Bush. Such were his last words. A native of New York City and a graduate of
 HALL--Bruce Edward. October 31 in Manhattan. Actor, writer, raconteur, Episcopalian. Beloved son of Jane Ann and Herbert of Vero Beach, FL, brother of Amy of Ossining, NY, Judy of Gloucester, MA, and Stephen of Voorhees, NJ. Leaves his dear Andy and countless friends. Service at St. Barthol
 McLEAN -- William Henry. Born April 15, 1911, in NYC, died of natural causes on Monday, October 27, 2003. Resided in Short Hills, NJ. Husband for 53 years of Vesta Tittmann McLean. Father of William H. McLean Jr. and Eugene B. McLean. Also survived by four grandchildren and a sister Dorothy
 MENDLOWITZ--Milton, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of Dr. Mendlowitz, a world recognized physician, scientist, academician and clinician, who served Mount Sinai and medicine for over 70 years. An international authority on the causes and treat
 O'KEEFE--Paul J. Of Sun City, FL formerly of Hewlett Harbor, NY on October 26 at age 83. He is survived by his wife Rita and children Thomas, Karen, Maureen, Shawn, Kevin and Patricia, nine grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Pre-deceased by his son Paul, Jr. Former Vice President o
 RAND--David L. On October 29, 2003. 95 years young. Wonderful husband, brother, uncle, cousin and friend to all who asked for his advise and help. He was a great human being. We all loved him. The Rand, Dichter and Rosenthal Families       
 STARKMAN--Herbert B., 88, of North Miami, FL, on October 30th. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Devoted father of Jeffrey, Steven, James and Valerie. Dear brother of the Hon. Charles B. Starkman and Rosalind Kahn and brother-in-law of Rosemary Starkman and Walter Kahn. Loving uncle and 
 Peter Henry Geoffrey Morgan, whose company makes the old-fashioned roadsters that bear his name, died on Oct. 20. He was 83 and lived in Malvern Link, England. Mr. Morgan belonged to an exclusive club: someone whose name is still on products made by a family concern founded more tha
 Richard E. Neustadt, the White House adviser, historian and authority on presidential power, died on Friday in England. He was 84. His death was reported by a spokesman for the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, for which Mr. Neustadt was a founding faculty member and had serv
 Behram N. Kursunoglu, a physicist who founded and led the Center for Theoretical Studies, an influential research organization at the University of Miami that drew scientists from around the world, died on Oct. 25 in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 81. The cause of death was a heart attac
 Doug Tuchman, a concert promoter and disc jockey who was one of the first to bring bluegrass to New York, died on Oct. 6 in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was a heart attack, said his former wife, Gail Tuchman. Mr. Tuchman was on his way to see the Del McCoury
 Frank A. Pitelka, whose studies of wildlife in the Arctic and California helped establish a field of study documenting the way environmental factors affect animal behavior, died Oct. 10 at his daughter's home in Altadena, Calif. He was 87. An emeritus professor of zoology at the Uni
 ALBOHER -- Albert. We mourn the loss of Albert, of Bayside, Queens, and Monticello, NY. He passed away peacefully in his sleep on October 31, at the age of 67. Al was President of Albert Alboher Associates and was an avid horse racing fan. He is survived by Ellen Alboher, their two daughter
 BARRETT--Peter. Age 62, on October 29, in New York City, after a long illness. Well known among friends and the New York City press corps as a witty character, avid reader and loyal Red Sox fan. He spent his entire career serving the City of New York. He was most recently employed by the Ne
 BROWN--J. B. Of Darien, CT, passed away unexpectedly on November 1, 2003, in Darien, CT. Born May 12, 1966, in Birmingham, MI, he was the son of Vern Brown and Sheila Henderson Brown of Wilmington, NC. Mr. Brown was a principal partner of Hynes, Himmelreich, Glennon & Company of Darien. J.B
 HUME--Thomas. Architect, Stamford, CT, died October 31, at 75. He was past President of the Trustees of the Ferguson Library and of Family and Children's Services, both in Stamford. An avid sailor, he was a crew member aboard the 1966 Mallory Cup winner. He is survived by his wife Tulita Me
 KLAPPER--Arthur M. On November 1, 2003. Survived by wife Arleen (nee Rosenberg) and children Michele S. Klapper, Andrew D. Klapper and his wife Susan L., as well as Judith N. Klapper. Also survived by sister Martha Goldberg and grandchildren Jacob and Joshua. Funeral services to be held tod
 Dr. Paul Calabresi, a leader in developing and testing drugs to treat Hodgkin's lymphoma, breast cancer and prostate cancer, among other diseases, died Oct. 25 in Providence, R.I. He was 73. The cause was cancer of the tongue, his son Steven said. Dr. Calabresi, who lived in
 Richard E. Neustadt, the White House adviser, historian and authority on presidential power, died on Friday in England. He was 84. His death was reported by a spokesman for the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, for which Mr. Neustadt was a founding faculty member and had serv
 Robert G. Bartle, a mathematician known for his authoritative texts on real analysis and other areas of advanced mathematics, died on Sept. 18 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 75. The cause was cancer, his son James said. His first book, ''The Elements of Real Analysis
 HUME--Thomas. Architect, Stamford, CT, died October 31, at 75. He was past President of the Trustees of the Ferguson Library and of Family and Children's Services, both in Stamford. An avid sailor, he was a crew member aboard the 1966 Mallory Cup winner. He is survived by his wife Tulita Me
 PERSON--Stanley. Devoted husband of Diane (nee Goetz). Beloved father of Rabbi Hara Person, U.A.H.C., and Jennifer Person. Cherished grandfather of Liya, Yonatan and Goldi. Dear brother of Sam, the late Joseph, Frances Kaufmann and Isabel Pershan. Services 12 noon, Tuesday, Gramercy Park Ch
 ROCHELLE - THOMAS -Alfred Peter. Age 88, devoted husband and loving father, passed away peacefully at his home in West Palm Beach, FL, November 1, 2003 with his loving wife, Cathy Maxwell Rochelle-Thomas, by his side. Born in London, England on April 8, 1915, Peter was a proud WWII veteran 
 ROMERO -- Jonathan Ed wards, 65, at home, on October 24, 2003 after a long courageous battle with Multiple System Atrophy. Descendant of early American theologian, Jonathan Edwards, he is survived by his wife, Elaine, sons Jonathan and Gregory, and granddaughter Juliana. Founder and CEO of 
 Philip M. Chu, an architect whose work included libraries at Amherst, Barnard and Bryn Mawr Colleges and at Princeton University, died on Oct. 27 at the Arcadia Residence, a home for the elderly in Honolulu. He was 83 and moved to Honolulu with his wife 14 years ago. The cause was a
 David Bar-Illan, a concert pianist, editor and media critic who served as chief spokesman for the Israeli government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 73. Mr. Bar-Illan died from complications of a heart attack he suffered in February 2000,
 Vadim Valery Filatov, an eye doctor who directed a half-dozen centers for laser-assisted surgery in the New York region, died last Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was liver disease, his family said. Dr. Filatov
 Herbert Muschel, who created PR Newswire, the service that lets companies send press releases to news outlets electronically, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. When Mr. Muschel started the business in 1954, companies had no way 
 John Gordon, an expert on American folk art who amassed one of the country's finest private collections of pots, whirligigs, weather vanes and paintings, died on Oct. 25 in the Bronx. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Gordon, who for many years maintained a gallery on West 57th 
 BROWN--J.B. The Board of Trustees, faculty and Acorn School community mourn the tragic loss of this beloved husband, father, brother and son-in-law. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Brown family including his wife Megan Axthelm Brown, his children Matthew and Mary Brown, his sister Hea
 CHMIEL--Felix J. of Fenwick, CT and Tequesta, FL, died November 2, age 77. Felix is survived by his wife Carol and their children, JC, Richard, Robert, Tony, Mimi, and Paul, 14 grandchildren, three brothers and three sisters. He retired after 47 years from U.S. Trust Co., the Senior Estate 
 HAMPTON--Harold Roy. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Harold Roy Hampton, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Gladys and family its deepest sympathy. Brian J. Strum, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secy      
 McDONNELL -- Morgan F., age 76, of Wayne, IL, passed away at home surrounded by his loving family on November 2, 2003. Son of the late James and Anna McDonnell of New York City and South Hampton. Beloved husband of Anne Ford for 52 years; loving father of Morgan (Kappo), Muffy Haley (Timoth
 ROSEDALE--Herbert, age 71, on November 4, 2003. Beloved husband of Ethel. Devoted father of Eric, Nancy, Jeff and Mary. Dear brother of Sheila Asroff. Of Counsel, Jenkins & Gilchrist Parker Chapin, LLP. Since 1988, he served as President of American Family Foundation, the leading profession
 William Swetland, a venerable character actor on Broadway and in regional theater who specialized in stalwart, older characters, died on Friday in Branford, Conn. He was 90. Tall and imposing, with a thick mane of hair and aquiline features, Mr. Swetland was one of the country's pre
 BAR-ILLAN--David. It is with the most profound sadness that we mourn the loss of our dear friend. David Bar-Illan. He gave tirelessly to his friends and countrymen as an eloquent spokesman for Israel and the Jewish people. His artistic and intellectual talents improved the quality of life f
 GUENETTE--Robert. Awardwinning filmmaker and cofounder of RGP, LAMEC and IDA died at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles on October 31 of brain cancer. He was 68. Predeceased by his wife, Frances, he is survived by son Dr. Mark D. Guenette, mother-in-law Basia Gudemann, siblings Shei
 IDIGORAS--Luis. November 1st, 2003, in New York City. Beloved friend and neighbor. Condolences to his family in Spain.       
 ROSEDALE -- Herbert. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Jenkins and Gilchrist Parker Chapin deeply mourn the passing of our beloved and esteemed partner, Herbert Rosedale. In addition to providing the firms' clients with exemplary service for more than 46 years, Herb was an atto
 STIM--Joseph D., 79, of Wantagh, NY, passed away on November 3, 2003, while snorkeling in Hawaii. An extraordinary man who relished peace and provoked thought, Joe served as a paratrooper in World War II, and was awarded the Purple Heart. He graduated from Broooklyn Law School, and practice
 WEBB--William Jay Gaynor. 73, of Vero Beach, FL died November 4th, 2003 at Indian River Memorial Hospital, Vero Beach, FL after a brief illness. Surviving are his wife of 47 years, Carol Webb of Vero Beach, FL, daughters, Eliza Webb Eppli, Electra Tortorella and Angela Kensinger and five gr
 Bobby Hatfield, whose wholesomely passionate tenor carried the upper harmonies of the pop-soul duo the Righteous Brothers, died on Wednesday in a hotel room in Kalamazoo, Mich. He was 63 and lived in Newport Beach, Calif. The cause was unknown, David Cohen, his manager, said. Mr. Ha
 DWINNELLS--Dana Wilson. Our best friend can never be described in words. All we can ever hope to do is to continue to live out the dreams he began with us. The love he brought to our lives can never be forgotten because every memory is over-flowing with his genuine smile, his laugh, and his
 GOTTLIEB--Dr. Paul, Director of the School of Biological Sciences died November 1, 2003, in Austin, Texas, of liver cancer at the age of 59. He was both a creative scientist and an empathetic administrator. He became Director of the School in the College of Natural Sciences in September 200
 GOTTLIEB--Jerome. 61. Suddenly, at home in Hollywood, CA, much too soon. Mourned by his cherished wife Janice Gottlieb, beloved sons Benjamin and Jonathan, loving siblings Roberta and Melvyn Klein, Susan and Mark Beckerman, Jerry Gemeinhardt, treasured nieces and nephews, David and Stephani
 SAPOSSNEK--Howard S. (71), of Boynton Beach, FL. Former Junior high school principal, musician and computer expert known for establishing computer use in NYC schools. Survived by his wife, Gert; children Robin, Mark and Jill, six grandchildren. Services Sunday, 11:15 AM, ''Sinai Chapels,'' 
 SCHNEE--Alexander (Lex). Passed away on July 4, 2003. A graduate of Dartmouth College, he also attended the London School of Economics and the National War College, Washington DC. Schnee spent 40 years with the Department of State, including 25 years in the Foreign Service and 15 years in C
 Roy Lucas, a lawyer who helped fashion the ''right to privacy'' legal argument used in Roe v. Wade, the landmark Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion in the United States, died on Monday in Prague. He was 61 and lived in Washington. The cause was a heart attack, said his sis
 Hugh H. Bownes, a former federal appeals court judge whose rulings in defense of civil liberties often put him at odds with conservative New Englanders, died at Yale New Haven Hospital on Wednesday. He was 83 and lived in Branford, Conn. The cause was pneumonia coming after a stroke
 John Gleason, a lighting designer and teacher who developed new ways to use color in theatrical productions, died on Oct. 28. He was 62 and lived in Watsontown, Pa. The cause was heart failure, said Allen Lee Hughes, a colleague and friend. In his three decades as a designer
 KOEPPEL--Dr. Jerome, of Lutherville, MD, and South Palm Beach, FL, on November 7, 2003. Mark Lacher deeply mourns the loss of the brother of his business partner of over 20 years, Howard Koeppel. Jerome was also a dear friend to Mark and his wife Susan for many years. The Lachers send condo
 SHAPIRO--Milton S., 81, on November 7, 2003 at his home. Devoted husband of Beatrice, loving father of Susan and Steven Levkoff and Janet and Philip Shapiro, adoring grandfather of Cameron, Josh, Brooke, Logan and Lou. Loyal brother of Dorothy Rothschild, Muriel Firestone and the late Anna 
 Richard Wollheim, a philosopher who synthesized analytic philosophy, psychoanalysis and the study of painting to develop aesthetic insights that are considered among the most profound of the postwar era, died on Tuesday at his home in London. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, 
 Horace L. Woodring, an Army private who was chauffeuring the Cadillac limousine of Gen. George S. Patton through the German countryside when it crashed and caused the injuries that resulted in Patton's death, died last Sunday at a Detroit hospital. He was 77 and lived in White Lake, Mich.  
 ALEXANDER--Alex T. 51, died on October 19, after a short battle with cancer. An expert on foreign exchange related issues, his banking career spanned 26 years, with Lloyds of London, Barclays, Credit Lyonnaise, Deutschebank, and with Wachovia Bank in North Carolina helping develop their int
 BERND--Walter E., Jr. Age 89. Of Long Island City and Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Jessica, of Long Island City. Loving father of Jessica and Walter. Adored grandfather to Sean, David and Chris. All around hot-shot to those lives he touched. He worked hard at being a
 BIDDLE--Charles. Of Princeton, NJ on November 1, 2003 at the age 78. He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Phoebe Emlen Taylor, their children Charles J. Biddle III of North Salem, NY, Willing L. Biddle of South Salem, NY and four grandchildren: Charles, Katharine, Elinor and Dana. Born i
 BIRNS--Edwin M., 66, of Woodbury, NY, on November 6, 2003. Beloved husband of Phyllis (nee Tokar). Devoted father of Stuart and Jodi, Richard and Bonnie, David and Ronit. Cherished grandfather of Adam, Evan, Mitchell, Jessica and Jason. Loving brother of Patricia Malamutt and adored son-in-
 BLOCK--Haskell M. 80, of New York City, died November 7, 2003, after a long illness. A graduate of the University of Chicago, Harvard University and the University of Paris, he was the author of many books and articles on comparative literature and a veteran of WWII. He gave a lifetime of s
 BRODIE--Sheldon J., M.D. The faculty and staff of the NYU Medical Center Skin & Cancer Unit and the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology sadly mourn the loss of Sheldon Brodie on October 29, 2003. A wonderfully member of our faculty for over 40 years, Dr. Brodie served as Chief of t
 FORREST--Richard E. October 25. Devoted husband of Judy. Father of Kathleen Forrest Shun and husband Adam, and Susan Forrest-Reynolds. Beloved grandfather of Nicholas and Lucia. Citizen of New York City. At his request a remembrance of Richard will be held at his home on December 7, from 4 
 FROME--Leo, 82, died November 5, in New York City, after a long illness. Trained at Goodman Theater in Chicago. Director of Development at Institute of International Education in New York. Devoted husband of 56 years of Joan (Hansi). Loving father of Kathy & Alex, and grandfather of Nichola
 GOTTLIEB--Jerome. 61. Suddenly, at home in Hollywood, CA, much too soon. Mourned by his cherished wife Janice Gottlieb, beloved sons Benjamin and Jonathan, loving siblings Roberta and Melvyn Klein, Susan and Mark Beckerman, Jerry Gemeinhardt, treasured nieces and nephews, David and Stephani
 HOLLYDAY--Richard C., Jr. Died on November 5 after a brief illness. Surviving are his wife of 49 years Jane P. Hollyday of Wilton, CT and his three children Richard C. Hollyday, III, Anne B. Hollyday and Thomas P. Hollyday. Also surviving are his two sisters Edith Hollyday and Blair Gray an
 KOEPPEL -- Jerome, M.D. Passed away peacefully in Baltimore, MD. on Friday, November 7, 2003. Born November 26, 1927, he lived a rich, full life and was loved by everyone who knew him. He left behind his loving wife Marlene, his children John, Claudia, Lisa and Gabrielle and many grandchild
 LANYI--Marton, of Fenton, MI. formerly of NYC, died Wednesday, November 5, at his home. Funeral Mass will be celebrated at 10AM Monday, November 10 at St. Matthew Catholic Church, 706 Beach St in Flint, MI. Marton Lanyi is survived by his wife, Spencer Kelly Lanyi of Fenton; mother, Nadya L
 LOGAN -- Sheridan Ashton. 102, died at the family home in Saint Joseph, Missouri, on November 5, 2003. Harvard College 1923; First National Bank, New York; Executive Secretary, George F. Baker Trust; Treasurer, Harvard Club of New York City; Treasurer, Cooper Union. Wrote two books, ''Georg
 LOWENTHAL--John. The Association on American Indian Affairs would like to honor the memory of John Lowenthal, who served on our Board of Directors for over 20 years, many as Treasurer. At this time of his memorial, he is remembered as a friend of the Native American community.       
 MAYO--Yetta. It is with profound sorrow that the BMP mourns the loss of our longtime member, Yetta Mayo. Heartfelt coldolences to Jeffrey and his family. Andrew Friedman, President       
 MELIK--Soss E., on October 11, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Lois May Radley Melik. Graveside services were held at the Miami Cemetery, Waynesville, OH on Friday, October 24, 2003. Mr. Melik was born on August 2, 1914 in Kislovodsk, Russia, of Armenian parents. He was predeceased by his
 MONTGOMERY--William W. M.D. Of Chestnut Hill, originally from West Rutland, VT. November 7, 2003. Beloved father of Lynn of Placitas, NM, Scott of Addison, NY, Stuart and his wife Diane of Hopkinton, MA, Leslie of Brattleboro, VT, and Robert of Fairlee, VT. William is also survived by his s
 PETITT--Donald. Industrial designer, died in NY after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Sara and daughter Victoria. Petitt served in WWII. After attending the Institute of Design in Chicago, he worked with designers Harry Bertoia, Eero Saarinen and George Nelson. He then went on to
 ROSENBERG--Michael L., 56. October 11, 2003. The Board of Directors of the Sunny and Abe Rosenberg Foundation mourn the passing of Michael L. Rosenberg, beloved son of President Emeritus, Sonia Rosenberg and the late Abraham Rosenberg; sister of President, Susan R. Goldstein; brother-in-law
 ROTH--Robert. On November 7, after a courageous battle with cancer. Died with his beloved wife Jane of 46 years by his side. Loving father of Jaye and Andrew Roth and Jonathan Roth. Loving brother-in-law of Marion Somerstein and Marika and Stuart Somerstein. Devoted nephew of Harriet Wolf o
 SCHOENBURG -- Peter. Of Claryville, NY, and Manhattan, died on November 7, 2003, at age 88. Beloved husband of Lee, father of Alexandra, Peter and Victoria, grandfather of Mandolina, John Taki, Johannes, Benjamin, Will and Liza, and brother of Sophie. A man of noble birth, exquisite curiosi
 SHAPIRO--Milton S., 81, on November 7, 2003 at his home. Devoted husband of Beatrice, loving father of Susan and Steven Levkoff and Janet and Philip Shapiro, adoring grandfather of Cameron, Josh, Brooke, Logan and Lou. Loyal brother of Dorothy Rothschild, Muriel Firestone and the late Anna 
 STARNES--Dr. James H., Jr. Age 64 of Yorktown, VA died October 27, 2003. He is survived by wife, Sue Starnes; daughter, Susan Katherine Starnes; son and daughter-inlaw, Mr. and Mrs. James H. Starnes, III; sister, Ruth Ann Rodgers Lumpkin; brother, Dr. Joseph W. Starnes. He served in the U.S
 WALKER--Daniel. February 1, 1909--October 8, 2003, born in DeWitt, VA, parents Albert and Rosa Walker. Survivors, Audrey, Cooper, Felton, Albertine, Vicie, and Carla Walker, Edward Earl and Charles Earl Harris. He lived on Lenox Avenue for over 50 years. He attended the A. Phillips Randolph
 Richard B. Smith, a New York corporate lawyer with a long history of public service, including four years on the Securities and Exchange Commission, died last Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was pan
 Milton S. Shapiro, a lawyer who was active in many organizations in support of Israel, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said his son, Philip. Mr. Shapiro was the chairman of the American Zionist Fund from 1982 to 1985, and president o
 BERNSTEIN--Arnold J. 93, of Sarasota, FL, and Scarsdale, NY, died November 9, at home. He was the husband of Jeanne Postley for 63 years; father of Janael McQueen of Santa Cruz, CA, Linda B. Miller of Washington, DC, and Carol B. Clark of London; grandfather of eight and great-grandfather o
 FERGENSON--A. Leon. Died October 28, 2003, in Mamaroneck, NY. Beloved husband of Constance Friend. Father of Anne Teall and Arthur, grandfather of Leah, Nina Festa, Micah, and Emily Teall, son of Harry and Lena, brother of Moses, Flora, Dorothy Rubinstein, and Rita Bergman. Born in Fitchber
 FINGOLD--J. Paul. To our close friend Paul, for many years your friendship, great golf games at the Palm Beach Country Club and wonderful trips and dinners together. You will be greatly missed. To Malka and the rest of the family, our deepest sympathy and love. Carol and Mark Lederman      
 KISSEL--Robert. November 8. It is with deep sorrow that we announce the untimely passing of Robert P. Kissel. Adored father of Elaine, June and Rees. Beloved son of William and the late Elaine. Cherished brother of Andrew and Jane. Special uncle to Anna, Audrey, Dara and Ruth and brother-in
 MANSON--Dr. Roy A. Of New York City. Beloved husband of Susan. Devoted father of Linda and Steven. Dearest brother of Audrey Singer. He will missed by all. Services will be private.       
 MOREAU -- Pierre. Passed away in Limoges, France, on Monday, November 4, 2003, at the age of 75. He lived a rich, full life, and was respected and loved by everyone who knew him. He left behind his loving wife Janine and his son Jean-Paul. He was the most courageous and selfless man we ever
 NAFTALI -- Raymond. No vember 7, 2003. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Nicole. Cherished grandfather of Anthony. He was a deeply respected and admired man who enjoyed life with his family and friends to the fullest. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81s
 ROSENBERG--Michael L., 56. October 11, 2003. The Board of Directors of the Sunny and Abe Rosenberg Foundation mourn the passing of Michael L. Rosenberg, beloved son of President Emeritus, Sonia Rosenberg and the late Abraham Rosenberg; sister of President, Susan R. Goldstein; brother-in-law
 SHAPIRO--Milton. The commitment, vitality and passion with which Milton lived his life has been an inspiration to all of us. Our thoughts and love are extended to the entire Shapiro and Levkoff families. Gerry, Hank, David and Brooke SHAPIRO--Milton S. Milton's death is a loss beyon
 TAUBES--Frank. Of Greenwich, CT, and Longboat Key, FL, died on November 7, 2003. Beloved husband of Laura, loving father of Leslie Martin, Lisa Turzilli, Timothy Taubes, Christopher Taubes. Also survived by eight grandchildren. He will be missed and remembered for his brilliant mind, his ze
 Irv Kupcinet, the celebrity-adoring gossip columnist for The Chicago Sun-Times whose daily jottings amounted to a love letter to the city where he himself became a celebrity, died there on Monday. He was 91, and his last column ran on Thursday. Mr. Kupcinet was possessed of an old-f
 Jack Clifton Grigg, an electrical engineer who helped guide the Navy into the age of nuclear propulsion and the country into the realm of commercial nuclear power, died on Nov. 1 at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 83. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said.        
 BERNE--Eliot ''Buddy'', veteran of WWII, peacefully on November 10, at 79. Survived by Ruth, his extraordinary wife of 57 years. Loving father of Bob & Shelley Berne, Cathy & Peter DeMartis, Allison & Bruce Nadler, Bill & Lori Berne. Devoted grandfather of Rebecca, Jessie, Michael, Alyssa, 
 BERNSTEIN--Arnold J. The entire Board of Trustees and the Blythedale Children's Hospital community mourn the loss of our dear friend and long-standing Board Member, Arnold J. Bernstein. Arnold was a devoted supporter of the work of the Hospital since 1953 when he became a member of the Boar
 CAIN--Edward A., Jr., DDS. JW Benfield Professor Emeritus, Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery. Died at home on November 8, 2003 at age 83. Beloved husband of 55 years of Jeanne W. Cain. Devoted father of Edward A., III (Kathryn), Barbara Rucci (Jerry), William, Susan Webs
 COOPER--Peter B., on November 9, 2003 in Upper Montclair, NJ. He served the community as a Judge of the Superior Court of New Jersey, practicing lawyer, Councilman and Mayor of the Township of Livingston, NJ. Memorial Service Tuesday, November 11, 2003 at Temple Emanuel, Livingston, NJ at 1
 HAMALIAN--Leo. Died November 8, 2003 at 83. For more than 40 years beloved CCNY English professor; dean of guidance at CCNY and dean of academic affairs at California Institute of the Arts; distinguished author or editor of more than 25 books and well over 150 articles; Fulbright or exchang
 HARRISON--Earl G., Jr., 71, Headmaster and Educator, of Washington, DC, died Monday, November 10. Beloved husband of Jean Young Harrison, wife of 46 years. Loving father of Dana Harrison and his wife, Stephanie, and of Colin Harrison and his wife, Kathryn. Proud and adored grandfather of Sa
 HARTNETT--Timothy V. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Timothy V. Hartnett, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian    
 MAJID--Dr. Ahmed Abdul. Beloved husband of the late Ekbal Basith and loving father of daughters, Aliza and Nerissa. He will be dearly missed by family and friends whose lives he touched with love, intellect and humor. Dr. Majid was a professor at the New York Institute of Technology for ove
 NAFTALI -- Raymond. No vember 7, 2003. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Nicole. Cherished grandfather of Anthony. He was a deeply respected and admired man who enjoyed life with his family and friends to the fullest. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81s
 POWELL--Craig D. On November 8, 2003 at age 35. Investment banker with the Blackstone Group. Beloved husband of Christine M. Hery. Loving father of Christian and Chloe. Devoted son of J.R. and Anita Powell. Dear brother of J. Robert and Jess A. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Ma
 RICHARDS--Irving S., 96, of New York, NY. Died November 10 at home. Husband of the late Rosalind Richards. Father of Lois Broido and Eric. Grandfather of Belinda Broido, Amy Rabenhorst and the late Lisa Kenoe. Greatgrandfather of Alana, Jack and Anika. Loving longtime companion of Marjorie 
 SHAPIRO--Milton S. Milton's wisdom and insight overflowed into the lives of all those with whom he came into contact. We were privileged to be among those who knew him. The many facets of his character, his humor and his wit are now ingrained in all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy t
 Art Carney, the Academy Award-winning comic actor who first gained fame as the guffawing, slightly off-center sewer worker Ed Norton in the early 1950's television series ''The Honeymooners,'' died on Sunday at a convalescent home in Chester, Conn. He was 85. Mr. Carney's talents we
 Marvin Smith, who photographed the pageant of life in Harlem from anti-lynching demonstrations to Fats Waller at the piano to thousands of everyday babies and brides, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Smith worked so closely with his identical twin brother, Morgan, who die
 BERNSTEIN--Arnold J. The entire Board of Trustees and the Blythedale Children's Hospital community mourn the loss of our dear friend and long-standing Board Member, Arnold J. Bernstein. Arnold was a devoted supporter of the work of the Hospital since 1953 when he became a member of the Boar
 DALY--Daniel R., 78, former resident of Baldwin, NY, died Sunday, November 9 in Gardner, MA following a long illness. He was the oldest son of Daniel E. and Mary (Murphy) Daly's seven children. A lifelong educator, Mr. Daly taught hundreds of students during his 36-year career as a teacher.
 LEONG--Terry. Died August 16, 2003 just before his 65th birthday, September 17. He was a scenic and costume designer for many years in New York. He is survived by his companion, Adam Pollack, and many friends and family. A memorial service will be held November 15, 2003 from 12-3 PM at the 
 MANN--Lester. Age 79 on November 7, 2003 of Horsham, PA. Accomplished child psychologist, former professor of special education at Hunter College and current Director of Special Education and President of Delta Schools. Dr. Mann was devoted to children with learning disabilities, and was th
 NAFTALI -- Raymond. The MacDougal-Sullivan Garden Association mourns the death of our longtime friend & neighbor Raymond Naftali. Raymond was an esteemed member of our community and we will miss him. We extend our love and deep sympathy to his family.       
 SHAPIRO--Milton S. Milton's wisdom and insight overflowed into the lives of all those with whom he came into contact. We were privileged to be among those who knew him. The many facets of his character, his humor and his wit are now ingrained in all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy t
 TABACHNIKOFF -- Rabbi Barry. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with great sorrow the untimely passing of a devoted champion of Israel who served from 1995 to 1997 as chairman of its National Rabbinic Cabinet. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. May they be c
 THURLOW -- Herbert Wil liams. Died on Sunday November 9, 2003, formerly of Aiken, SC, and Babylon, NY. Survived by his wife, Merritt Walbridge McCully, four children, nine grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.       
 UCHIN--Jerome F., D.D.S. on November 11, 2003. Of Boca Raton, FL., formerly of Highland Park and Princeton, N.J. A graduate of the NYU School of Dentistry (1942) and practiced in the New Brunswick area. Loving husband of Dorothy to whom he was married 58 years. Adored father of Larry Uchin 
 A. Michael DeSisto, founder and headmaster of the innovative DeSisto School in Stockbridge, Mass., which specializes in helping troubled adolescents through unusual programs that include the culinary and performing arts, died on Nov. 1 in Boston. He was 64 and lived on the school's campus. 
 Charles L. Brown, the former chairman of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, who agreed to the historic breakup of the Bell system, died yesterday in Richmond, Va. He was 82 and had lived in Princeton, N.J., since 1975. Mr. Brown, a soft-spoken and reserved executive who p
 Derk Bodde, who began his academic career as the first Fulbright scholar and over more than 50 years wrote influential books on China that included an eyewitness account of Mao's revolution, died on Nov. 3 at a retirement home in Philadelphia. He was 94. Dr. Bodde, who taught at the
 Dr. Paul Janssen, a Belgian doctor whose research led to the start of the international pharmaceutical company Janssen Pharmaceutica, now part of Johnson & Johnson, died on Tuesday at a hotel in Rome, where he was attending a conference. He was 77 and lived in Vosselaar, near his co
 Joe Kleinerman, a runner, track coach and Runyonesque character who was a key figure in developing the New York Road Runners Club, the New York City Marathon and women's distance running, died on Tuesday in Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. He was 91. Until 1958, when road races were sc
 Mario Merz, an Italian artist whose installations exemplified the Arte Povera movement and its use of humble, often organic materials, died on Sunday at his home in Milan. He was 78. He died in his sleep, and no cause of death was announced. Mr. Merz belonged to a generation
 AMINS--Phillip D., Esq., of Fort Lee, NJ, on November 12, 2003. Devoted father of Boruch Amins. Dear brother of Merrel Farrington. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Services ''Gutterman-Musicant,'' 402 Park St, Hackensack, NJ, Thursday 11:30AM. Should friends desire, contributio
 ELSOHN--Jule Michael, Dr. On November 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Margit Subak Elsohn, married for 57 years. Loving uncle of Nina Elsohn of San Francisco, Linda Indek of Bloomfield, NJ, Neal Elsohn of Cape May, NJ and cherished great-uncle. Dr. Elsohn was a Captain in the United States Air
 KLEINERMAN -- Joseph George. New York Road Runners founder, board member emeritus, coach, competitive runner, supporter of running, and beloved friend Joe Kleinerman died peacefully in his sleep on Tuesday, November 11, 2003 at age 91. He was the son of David and Rose Kleinerman and is surv
 KOTLER--Martin, 78, who oversaw ground - breaking public service programs in New York City and was the Chairman of the Board of Macro International died of complications from nonHodgkins lymphoma on November 6 in Maryland. Under Mayor Wagner, he was Director of Job Development for JOIN and 
 MASON--Eugene Waterman IV, 53, of Jackson heights, NY, suddenly on November 10, 2003. Son of Mary Y. Mason of Peapack, NJ, and the late Eugene W. Mason III. Brother of Mary Mason Johnson, of NY. Companion of Eduardo Madrid. Also survived by his niece, Christina Johnson. A funeral service wi
 MEAD--Stephen II. Of Hamilton, MA and Beaufort, SC, died November 8th. His wife, Betty Ann, predeceased him. He is survived by his sister, Barbara Hodges; children, S. Mead Jr., S. Dorsey and D.L. Mead; his stepchildren, S. Doyle, E. Dick, S. Boulet-Gercourt and W. Doyle; eight grandchildre
 PETRUCCI--Neal J. of Yonkers, beloved husband of Olga, cherished father of Deborah Petrucci and Lynn P. Tishman, loving father-in-law of Peter V. Tishman, dear brother of Celia Neto, died November 11, 2003 at 87. He will be deeply missed by family and friends whose lives he touched. Visitin
 PIERCE--William Curtis, 97, peacefully in the old family home in West Baldwin, ME, November 12. Predeceased by his sons William Jr. and Martin, survived by his wife of 74 years, Elizabeth Neall Gay, brother Benjamin, children Josiah, Elizabeth Fuchs and Mackin Pulsifer; seven grandchildren 
 ROSENTHAL -- Aaron, 89, born on July 12, 1914 in NYC, died on November 11, 2003 at his home in Washington, DC. Beloved husband of Edna Rosenthal, father of Stephen Rosenthal (Marjorie) and Marjorie Bloom (Paul), grandfather of Adam, Eric, Ester, Daniel, Jeffrey, and Judah, brother of Estell
 SPERLING--David E. Age 75. Died at home November 9, 2003. Survived by loving wife Mary; his children James and Gabrielle; grandchildren Bryan, Lauren, Maxwell and his sisters Gloria Zeisel and Renee Ginsberg. We shared many great times together and we will never forget his warmth, spirit an
 TOMPKINS--John, 79, died suddenly Saturday night, November 8th of a heart attack. John was a World War II veteran who enlisted at the age of 17. After the war, he graduated from the University of Michigan on the G.I. bill, and then moved to New York to work for Grace Line. The move to New Y
 Dr. Donald R. Griffin, who was considered the founder of the modern field involving the study of animal thinking and consciousness, and who early in his career helped unravel the secret of bats' navigation system, died last Friday in Lexington, Mass. He was 88. An emeritus professor
 COHN--Seymour. With deep sorrow, the family announces the passing of Seymour Cohn. A friend to so many and looked up to by all those whose lives were touched by his boldness and imagination. Services will be held Sunday, November 16, 2003, 9AM, at Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapels
 ELSOHN--Jule Michael, Dr. On November 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Margit Subak Elsohn, married for 57 years. Loving uncle of Nina Elsohn of San Francisco, Linda Indek of Bloomfield, NJ, Neal Elsohn of Cape May, NJ and cherished great-uncle. Dr. Elsohn was a Captain in the United States Air
 FILIPPELLI--Nicholas. The League Treatment Center family, Board of Directors, Staff and Clients extend our deepest sympathy to Stella Filippelli, President of our PTA. We all deeply mourn the tragic loss of Nicholas Filippelli, a kind man of strength and compassion who was deeply devoted to
 KLEINERMAN -- Joseph George. New York Road Runners founder, board member emeritus, coach, competitive runner, supporter of running, and beloved friend Joe Kleinerman died peacefully in his sleep on Tuesday, November 11, 2003 at age 91. He was the son of David and Rose Kleinerman and is surv
 MARTINO--Samuel E. of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, a decorated veteran of World War II, died November 13 at his home. Survived by his wife Angelina (nee Scudieri) Martino; a daughter Donna Martino of Englewood, NJ; two sons Edward A. (Peggy) Martino of Greenwich, CT and the Hon. Mich
 NITZBERG -- Jerome. Be loved husband and devoted father, grandfather and brother. Jerome devoted his work life to creating a center in which people with developmental disabilities could work and grow in a setting where they were truly encouraged to realize themselves. Farewell service at Ha
 TOMPKINS--John, 79, died suddenly Saturday night, November 8th of a heart attack. John was a World War II veteran who enlisted at the age of 17. After the war, he graduated from the University of Michigan on the G.I. bill, and then moved to New York to work for Grace Line. The move to New Y
 Stephen A. Benton, a pioneer in medical-imaging and fine-arts holography who invented the ''rainbow'' holograms now found on credit cards, died on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 61 and lived in nearby Lincoln, Mass. The cause was brain cancer, said the Ma
 Irving Richards, an entrepreneur who helped take modern design to the dinner table, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 96. Beginning in the 1930's, Mr. Richards sought emerging industrial designers and brought them together with manufacturers who produced their work -- 
 CASANOVA--Lorenzo, Attorney at Law on November 13, 2003 at age 70. He was engaged in practice of law in Jackson Heights until his death. Survived by his wife Ana, his daughter Dianna (Dr. Nazar) Sayegh, his son Marc and two grandchildren, three brothers Luis, Miguel, and Rafael, two sisters
 COHN--Seymour. With deep sorrow, the family announces the passing of Seymour Cohn. A friend to so many and looked up to by all those whose lives were touched by his boldness and imagination. Services will be held Sunday, November 16, 2003, 9AM, at Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapels
 MARKOWITZ--Martin, M.D. 93, of Blooming Grove, NY died November 14, 2003. Born in Brooklyn to Max and Rose Markowitz. Retired from his practice in Brooklyn, former President of Kings County Medical Society and NYS Family Practice Association. Husband of the late Mildred Malkin Markowitz. Su
 O'TOOLE--Thomas. On Wednesday, November 12, 2003, at home in Washington, DC. Beloved husband of Mary Kate Cranston; loving father of Ryan O'Toole and Tom O'Toole, Owen O'Toole, Ellen Hubbard and Peter O'Toole; grandfather of Emily and Annie Hubbard. Also survived by his former wife, Vitalin
 PORDY -- Leon, M.D., F.A.C.C., 84, died Friday, November 14th, 2003 at his home in Manhattan after a valiant battle with a long illness. His accomplishments were bountiful. Graduating Phi Beta Kappa from NYU in 1938, he went on to receive a Master's in Biochemistry prior to attending Louisi
 VAGLIANO--Alexander Marino died at home in Norfolk, CT on Thursday, November 13, 2003 of complications of diabetes. In a varied and distinguished career, Mr. Vagliano was Executive Vice-President of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co., a director in the Agency for International Development and a gent
 WEINER--Alvin H., M.D. Beloved husband of Norma. Cherished father of Dr. Alison Weiner and Robert Solomon, Dr. Kevin and Lauren Weiner. Loving grandfather of Sara Solomon and Ryan Weiner. Reposing at Midwood Chapels, Coney Island Avenue and Avenue M, Brooklyn, NY. Visiting Saturday 7-9 PM. 
 WIDOFF--Gerald. Maverick Concerts mourns the loss of Board Member and former Chairman, Gerald Widoff. His participation in the evolution of Maverick Concerts was invaluable. He was a brilliant human being and artist, an inspiration to his family and loved ones. The classical music realm is 
 WAGNER--Robert F., Jr. January 6, 1944-November 15, 1993. The finest public servant of his generation. Connorton, Crotty, Edelstein, Koch, Lewis, Stern and Duncan Wagne       
 Richard C. Squires, who built a career on racket sports, including serving as publisher of tennis magazines, died Wednesday at his home in Rowayton, Conn. He was 72. The cause was emphysema, his wife, Dr. Joan Finn Squires, said. Mr. Squires won national titles in three rack
 Seymour Cohn, co-founder and chairman of the Sylvan Lawrence Company, long a major commercial real estate power in New York City, died on Thursday. He was 92. A former resident of Upper Brookville, N.Y., Mr. Cohn lived in Palm Beach, Fla. At its peak, the Sylvan Lawrence Com
 Dr. William W. Montgomery, a Harvard surgeon who originated many techniques that are now widely used in operations on the throat and the vocal cords, died on Nov. 7, at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 80. He had been suffering from bladder cancer for more than a year, said his s
 Bruce Alexander Cook, a writer of crime fiction and nonfiction, died on Nov. 9 in Los Angeles. He was 71. The cause was a stroke, said his daughter Catherine. The best known of his crime novels, written under the name Bruce Alexander, was a series about Sir John Fielding, th
 Georgi Vladimov, a dissident Russian writer whose dark, allegorical novels of life under the Soviet regime forced him into exile, died on Oct. 19 in Germany, Agence France-Presse reported. He was 72. Mr. Vladimov left Russia in 1983 after tangling publicly with the authorities. His 
 Laurence A. Tisch, the self-made New York billionaire who was hailed as a white knight for saving CBS Inc. from a hostile takeover and then reviled for diminishing what was once the nation's premier broadcasting network, died early yesterday at Tisch Hospital of the New York University Medi
 BELDEN--Kevin M. Age 40, of New York City passed away unexpectedly of a cardiac arrest on Tuesday, November 4, 2003. Kevin graduated from Catholic University in 1986, and received his MBA from University of Notre Dame in 1989. At the time of his death, he was Executive Director of Integrate
 COHN -- Seymour. Beloved son of the late Charles Cohn and Bella Cohen Cohn, adored brother of the late Mildred Cohn, Maurice Cohn, Irene Colvin, Pearl C. Miller and Sylvan Lawrence, devoted husband of the late Estelle G. Cohn, cherished father of Paula Hallman and Marc Cohn, revered brother
 CREHORE--William W. III. 76, of Lynchburg, VA, died Wednesday, November 12, 2003, at Virginia Baptist Hospital. He was married to Shirley Kraft Crehore for 54 years. Mr. Crehore was born in New York, NY, the son of the late William W. Crehore, Jr., and Edna Forde Mellor. He proudly served o
 DAVIE--E.T. Bedford ''Buddy,'' of Palm Beach, Florida, died at his home in Palm Beach, on Tuesday, November 11, 2003. He had recently celebrated his 90th birthday. His grandfather, Edward T. Bedford, was a Director and a member of the Executive Committee of the Standard Oil Company of New J
 FISCHER--Laurenz Svante. In deep sorrow and with great appreciation for his many intellectual and personal gifts we have to take leave of Laurenz Svante Fischer, 1925-2003. There will be a memorial service on December 6, 3:30PM at the Church of St. Paul & St. Andrew, 263 West 86th St. Pleas
 FLAUM--Herbert L. Father of Lloyd and Stuart, brother of Hortense Laub, passed away November 15, 2003. Respectfully, a private funeral will ensue. Should friends desire, contributions can be made in memory of Herbert Flaum to the Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Mt. Sinai Hospital, 1255
 KLEIN--Donald. Of Armonk, NY. Died peacefully on November 15, 2003. Respected lawyer and loyal friend. He is survived by his wife Barbara, son Jason, daughter Zoe and other beloved family members. His family would like to express gratitude to all of those who showed their love and care. A c
 LIEBERFARB -- Daniel L. Dearest and beloved brother, brother-in-law, uncle and great-uncle to Eddie, Elaine, Ira, Linda, Barbara, Steve, Robert, Allison and Evan. His memory will always be in our hearts and he will be missed.       
 LIPTON -- Solomon. Passed away November 15, at 89, as a result of complications from open-heart surgery. The devoted father of Roger, David and Marilyn. The beloved grandfather of Leslie, Hannah, and Benjamin. The loving brother of Marty and the late Ruth Weisman. He lived a full life, a de
 McMAHON--William. 68, died 9/21/03, in Cooper, ME. Survived by wife, Joanne. Wellknown sculptor, graduate of SVA. He will be missed.       
 MILLER--Wade, 79, of Millburn, NJ, died on Sunday, November 9, 2003. He was an actor/dancer in theatre, film, and TV in Hollywood and New York City. He was Stage Manager and then General Manager of Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, NJ. Services held at The Chapels at Short Hills, Millburn, 
 MILNE--William MacDonald, Wilmette, IL-Jupiter, FL, died November 6, at 85. Phi Beta Kappa, N.U. '39. Survivors, Virginia, his wife of 58 years; Sally, Richard, IL; Stuart, MA; Robert, FL; Stephen, NYC. Donations to Hospice North Shore 847-467-7423       
 PORDY--Leon, M.D., F.A.C.C. 84, died Friday, November 14th, 2003 at his home in Manhattan after a valiant battle with a long illness. His accomplishments were bountiful. Graduating Phi Beta Kappa from NYU in 1938, he went on to receive a Master's in Biochemistry prior to attending Louisiana
 PRUSSLIN--Herbert. 81, on November 14, 2003. Lifelong resident of Brooklyn. Beloved husband of the late Hilda Prusslin. Loving father of Norman, Marc and Gail Prusslin, and father-in-law of Susan Risoli and Michael Yellin. Proud grandfather of Alexandra, Allison, Amanda, Hannah and Rebecca.
 ROEMER--Malcolm William. October 23, 1927 to November 12, 2003. May his soul rest in peace.       
 SHARFSTEIN--Samuel, 95, of Manalapan, NJ formerly of NYC and W. Palm Beach, FL, November 12, 2003. Former Attorney and NYS Insurance Examiner, beloved father of Anita Greenberg and Adele Burstein; father-in-law of Norman and Allan; grandfather of Lisa, Steven, Mimi, Mark and David; great-gr
 TISCH--Laurence Alan. 80. Saturday, November 15. Dearly beloved husband of Billie for 55 years. Adored and adoring father of Andrew & Ann, Daniel & Bonnie, James & Merryl, Thomas & Alice. Proud and loving grandfather of Alexander & Bara, Lacey, Sarah, Charlotte, David, Michael, Alan, Jessic
 VAGLIANO--Alexander Marino died at home in Norfolk, CT on Thursday, November 13, 2003 of complications of diabetes. In a varied and distinguished career, Mr. Vagliano was Executive Vice-President of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co., a director in the Agency for International Development and a gent
 WEINER--Alvin, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center is deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Alvin Weiner. Dr. Weiner was an obstetrician and gynecologist for over 40 years. He was an exemplary role model for the physicians who learned from him. He treated his patients with muc
 WIDOFF--Gerald J. 11/4/22 11/13/03. A native New Yorker, he attended Townsend Harris High School and City College, where he won many international fencing competitions and is listed in the City College Athletic Hall of Fame. Gerald served in the U.S. Army Intelligence in WWII as a Japanese 
 KLEBAN--Francis Joseph. A good and caring man. He is missed.       
 TRACT--Harold M. 11/18/91. Of blessed memory. He was a truly noble man. The Tract Famil       
 Ralph Stanton Emerson, a New York surgeon who helped develop physician-sponsored professional liability insurance during a malpractice insurance crisis in the 1970's, died on Sept. 26. He was 91. The cause was pulmonary arrest, said his son John W. Emerson. Dr. Emerson was p
 Alexander M. Vagliano, who was involved in the negotiations for the return of American hostages from Iran, died on Thursday at his home in Norfolk, Conn. He was 76. The cause was complications of diabetes, his wife, Sara, said. In January 1981, as head of the international b
 GRENADIER -- Neil. My brother passed after a long and heroic battle with chronic pulmonary disease. His memory will be cherished in my heart. My husband, Kenneth Richman, and my son, Skyler Richman, remember the kind and intuitive qualities that define Neil. God bless the attending physicia
 GROSSMAN--Morton. Of Los Angeles, CA, died on Friday, November 14, 2003. Dear father of Benjamin and Andrea; beloved brother of Edythe Gottlieb and Florence Bauman; loving uncle of Fern, Steven, Madeline, Carole and Patricia; devoted friend to so many. As beautiful inside as he was outside.
 KARLIN--Leonard. On November 14, at age 81, following a brief illness. Editor, wordsmith, writer of elegance and wit. He had a lifelong association with Long Island University, where he taught journalism, directed public relations, and served on the Polk Awards Committee from its inception.
 KISSEL--Robert P. Services will be held Tuesday, November 18th, at 11 AM, at Temple Sholom, 300 East Putnam Ave, Greenwich, CT. Interment will be at Riverside Cemetery in Saddle Brook, NJ. May Robert's memory eternally be for blessing, and may comfort, strength and consolation be granted to
 KLEIN--Donald. Of Armonk, NY. Died peacefully on November 15, 2003. Respected lawyer and loyal friend. He is survived by his wife Barbara, son Jason, daughter Zoe and other beloved family members. His family would like to express gratitude to all of those who showed their love and care. A c
 LIPTON -- Solomon. Passed away November 15, at 89, as a result of complications from open-heart surgery. The devoted father of Roger, David and Marilyn. The beloved grandfather of Leslie, Hannah, and Benjamin. The loving brother of Marty and the late Ruth Weisman. He lived a full life, a de
 TISCH--Laurence Alan. 80. Saturday, November 15. Dearly beloved husband of Billie for 55 years. Adored and adoring father of Andrew & Ann, Daniel & Bonnie, James & Merryl, Thomas & Alice. Proud and loving grandfather of Alexander & Bara, Lacey, Sarah, Charlotte, David, Michael, Alan, Jessic
 WIDOFF--Gerald. Maverick Concerts mourns the loss of Board Member and former Chairman, Gerald Widoff. His participation in the evolution of Maverick Concerts was invaluable. He was a brilliant human being and artist, an inspiration to his family and loved ones. The classical music realm is 
 Anthony Ripley, a former national correspondent for The New York Times and a founding editor of the quarterly Discovery YMCA, died on Friday in Boulder, Colo. He was 75 and lived in nearby Lyons. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Ripley was a reporter for The Detroit News
 Dr. Leon Pordy, a Manhattan cardiologist who unexpectedly moved into the corporate world, becoming chairman of the Chock full o'Nuts coffee company, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Dr. Pordy, a pioneer in the application of computer technology to cardiology, was
 COVELLO--James L. 48 years, of Pound Ridge, NY, died on November 16, 2003. Beloved husband of Mariann. Devoted father of Jamie and Caitlin. Jim was a self-employed lighting director and an Emmy award winning cameraman in broadcast and corporate television worldwide. Jim was a devoted father
 DRACHMAN--Stanley, M.D. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted, long-time member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus DRACHMAN--Stanley, M.D. The Board of Governor
 HOCHWALT--Father Richard A., M.M., 79, of Dayton, Ohio, a Maryknoll missioner to Africa, died November 16 at St. Teresa's Residence, Ossining, NY. A priest for 52 years, he is survived by a brother, Carroll Hochwalt, Jr., of Upper Montclair, N.J., and nieces and nephews. Wake services: Tues
 KARLIN--Leonard. On November 14, at age 81, following a brief illness. Editor, wordsmith, writer of elegance and wit. He had a lifelong association with Long Island University, where he taught journalism, directed public relations, and served on the Polk Awards Committee from its inception.
 KIRSHENBAUM -- Morris Behr. Died on November 17 in Pittsburgh at the age of 85. A funeral service will be held for him on Wednesday, November 19 at the Ralph Schugar Funeral Home, 5509 Centre Avenue, Pittsburgh at 11AM, followed by burial at Shaare Torah Cemetery. An artist and advertising 
 PORDY--Leon, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague. Devoted to his patients whom he cared for with expertise and compassion and a conscientious mentor who touch the lives of countless students and residents, he was re
 SCHWARTZ--Eliezer. Adored son of Rabbi Gershon and Dr. Shuly Rubin Schwartz, cherished brother of Moshe, Tali, and Hadar, devoted grandson of Shirley Schwartz. We mourn the tragic death of our beloved nephew, Elie. Elie's wit, charisma and goodness were a blessing to us all. Funeral today a
 SILVER--Maurice. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Maurice Silver, beloved father of L. David Silver. We extend our deepest condolences to David and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 TISCH--Laurence A. Bob, Joan, Steve, Jamie, Laurie and Jonathan and their children feel blessed to have spent so many wonderful years with Bob's brother and our dear ''Uncle Larry.'' We learned wisdom, passion, integrity, and ''tikkun olam'' by following his example. His remarkable legacy w
 Earl Battey, a four-time All-Star catcher for the Minnesota Twins in the 1960's, died last Saturday at a hospital in Gainesville, Fla. Battey, who lived in Ocala, Fla., was 68. The cause was cancer, his wife, Sonia, said. Battey played for 13 seasons in the major leagues and
 Fritz Kraemer, a refugee from Nazi Germany who tutored generations of America's leading generals in historical and geopolitical thinking, died in Washington on Sept. 8. He was 95. From 1951 until his retirement in 1978, he worked in the Pentagon as a senior civilian counselor to def
 Gene Anthony Ray, who starred as Leroy, a street-smart urban teenager, in the 1980 movie ''Fame'' and the later television series, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 41. The cause was complications of a stroke he had in June, and he was also H.I.V. positive, said Jean E. Ray, his m
 Leonard Karlin, who helped conceive, develop and run the George Polk Awards, one of journalism's highest honors, died on Friday at a hospice in the Bronx. He was 81 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. The cause was a brain tumor, said Robert Spector, chairman of the Polk Awards, which are
 BERSOHN--Richard. Died on November 18, 2003. He is survived by his beloved and devoted wife Nehama, his children Malcolm Mark, David, Rina and Leora, his grandchildren Daniel and Rebecca, his daughter-in-law Shelley Shapiro and son-in-law Adam Spiewak, his twin brother Malcolm and his siste
 BRITTENHAM--Raymond L. The Officers, Directors and Staff of The Tinker Foundation Inc., express their deep sorrow at the death of Mr. Raymond L. Brittenham. Mr. Brittenham was a steady rock in the early years of the Foundation's development. He continued his stewardship for thirty-six years
 BYRNE--Charles E. Of Milford, Pa. Died November 15. Founder of Logos Corporation and pioneer in the field of machine translation, Charles was a decorated veteran of World War II. He and his wife, Patricia, were parents of eleven children and grandparents of 21. Burial at Arlington National 
 CARBINE--Raymond E. Of Charlottesville, Va. Died on November 17. Beloved husband of Adele. Cherished father of Joyce and Mark. Devoted brother of Dennis. Extraordinary artist. His talent will truly be missed.       
 COHN -- Seymour. North Shore Synagogue, Syossetmourns the loss of devoted founding member and lifelong benefactor Seymour Cohn. A man of strength, determination, and vision whose commitment to Judaism prompted his more than half century of loving support to this congregation. We honor him f
 COOK--G. Whitfield, III, 94 years, of Lyme, CT died on November 12, 2003 at Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, CT of cardiac complications. Graduate of Yale Drama School. Broadway writer, director, and stage manager. Screenwriter for MGM-Alfred Hitchcock Productions, and televisi
 DOVE--Grant Alonza. Born May 30, 1928 in Sycamore, VA, passed away November 17, 2003 in Dallas, TX at the age of 75. He was a loving husband, father and grandfather, a true Southern gentleman. From very humble beginnings, he became a leader in computer technology and research and was a resp
 DRACHMAN -- Stanley Robert, M.D., on November 16, 2003, at the age of 81. Beloved husband of Sally Ann. Devoted father of Virginia, Susan, Josh and Dori. Cherished brother of Harvey and Diane. Doting grandfather of Wendy, Abigail, Eliza, and Andrew. A graduate of Columbia University and the
 EASLEY--Holmes. Was born on September 24, 1934 in San Saba, TX. A resident of NYC since 1970 he died October 11, 2003, while visiting in Carmel, CA, following two years of treatment for colon cancer. He obtained his Master of Fine Arts degree in stage, scenic and costume design at the Yale 
 GILLMAN--William G., 88 of Eastchester, died November 18, 2003. Survived by his wife Marcelle; two daughters Alecia Gillman and Eileen Choron; son-in-law Greg Choron; grandchildren Rachel, Deborah and Rebecca Choron. Retired executive of Faber, Coe & Gregg, and AnCorp National Services. Gra
 GREENE--Elliot H. of West Orange, N.J. on November 17, 2003. Born in Manhattan on March 17, 1909, son of Max and Lyn Greene, he was a 46 year resident of South Orange. He was a source of wisdom, strength; and deep pride to his family, who lovingly called him Popu. An engineering graduate of
 JOSEPH--Martin, 64, musician, teacher, and bandleader, died on November 16, 2003, due to complications from surgery. Born May 29, 1939 in the Bronx, NY, he was known as Marty Stevens, President of Marty Stevens Music. Receiving an MA in history from New York University, Marty taught history
 KIRSHENBAUM -- Morris Behr. Died on November 17 in Pittsburgh at the age of 85. A funeral service will be held for him on Wednesday, November 19 at the Ralph Schugar Funeral Home, 5509 Centre Avenue, Pittsburgh at 11AM, followed by burial at Shaare Torah Cemetery. An artist and advertising 
 KLEIN--Donald S. The Westchester Trusts and Estates Round Table Study Group is deeply saddened by the loss of our esteemed member. He was our founder, our mentor and, above all, our friend.       
 KLEINER -- Sam. Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of our dear counsel, Sam Kleiner. For over two decades, he was our invaluable partner, confidant and most importantly, great friend. Beside being a skilled and knowledgeable attorney, Sam was an astute, fair-minded businessman, profoundly r
 NEDO--Nickolas, 48, Tarrytown, NY, died November 17 after a lengthy illness. He is survived by his parents, Otto and Karin V. Nedo of Douglaston, NY; his wife, Roula Theofanis Nedo and his son Alexander. Visitation Coffey Funeral Home, 91 N. Broadway, Tarrytown, NY Thursday 2-4 & 6-8 P.M. F
 O'HARA--Vincent F. on November 15, 2003, in Wilton, CT. He was a highly respected colleague from 1957 to his retirement in 1983 and then as a consultant to our company. Vincent specialized in the development and operation of employee benefit plans. He served as an officer of the firm, retir
 OLNICK--Harvey. The Musicians, Trustees, and Staff of The Marlboro Music School and Festival, note with sadness the passing of Harvey Olnick, Administrative Director in 1956 and 1957, and Trustee and Emeritus Trustee for over forty years. His passion for Marlboro and his organizational stre
 ROSENBERG--Julius, M.D. Age 88. Died peacefully at home in Palm Beach on November 17, 2003. His loving wife, Cathy, was at his side as always during these last difficult weeks and through the many years of joy they shared. Born in NYC, July 13, 1915, he graduated from New York University in
 RUBIN--Irving A. The National Board of Trustees, Founders, and staff of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America mourn the loss of our dedicated Chairperson Emeritus and dear friend, Irving A. Rubin. As our second National President, Irving played a crucial role in the development and su
 SMITH--William T. Of Albany, New York, a Yonkers native and former director of the state's Division of Probation, of an apparent heart attack November 13 at his vacation home in Southbury, CT. Predeceased by his wife Lucille (Walsh) Smith, of Albany, and his sister Helen Sheehan of the Bron
 TISCH--Laurence A. Bob, Joan, Steve, Jamie, Laurie and Jonathan and their children feel blessed to have spent so many wonderful years with Bob's brother and our dear ''Uncle Larry.'' We learned wisdom, passion, integrity, and ''tikkun olam'' by following his example. His remarkable legacy w
 WEISS--Allen. Beloved brother and son. Loving husband and devoted father, died on Monday, November 17, 2003. His award-winning photography and artistic accomplishments will be remembered and cherished by all who knew him. Marsha and Neil Remland       
 RICH--Gordon A. 11/8/57--11/19/00. Death be not proud. He lives within our hearts. Loving you, missing you...now and forever. Mom and Da       
 Dr. Allan J. Erslev, who identified a hormone that is now widely used in its synthetic form to treat anemic disorders, and abused to enhance athletic performance, died on Nov. 12 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 84. The hormone, erythropoietin, is made in the kidneys and can inc
 Eason Harris Leonard, a founding partner and longtime reigning impresario of the Manhattan architectural firm I. M. Pei & Partners, now Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, died last Thursday in Carmel, Calif., where he had retired in 1990. He was 83 and formerly lived in Tarrytown, N.Y. The 
 BRITTENHAM--Raymond L. The Officers, Directors and Staff of The Tinker Foundation Inc., express their deep sorrow at the death of Mr. Raymond L. Brittenham. Mr. Brittenham was a steady rock in the early years of the Foundation's development. He continued his stewardship for thirty-six years
 CARTER--Samuel Porter Williams, 76, died November 16. He is survived by his son, daughter-in-law, two grandsons, two brothers, sisters-inlaw and seven nieces and nephews. He was predeceased by his wife Margaret on July 1, 2003. Funeral service at 1 PM, November 23 at Irvington Presbyterian 
 EASLEY--Holmes. Was born on September 24, 1934 in San Saba, TX. A resident of NYC since 1970 he died October 11, 2003, while visiting in Carmel, CA, following two years of treatment for colon cancer. He obtained his Master of Fine Arts degree in stage, scenic and costume design at the Yale 
 JOSEPH--Martin, 64, musician, teacher, and bandleader, died on November 16, 2003, due to complications from surgery. Born May 29, 1939 in the Bronx, NY, he was known as Marty Stevens, President of Marty Stevens Music. Receiving an MA in history from New York University, Marty taught history
 KLEINER -- Sam. Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of our dear counsel, Sam Kleiner. For over two decades, he was our invaluable partner, confidant and most importantly, great friend. Beside being a skilled and knowledgeable attorney, Sam was an astute, fair-minded businessman, profoundly r
 MORGENROTH -- Steven. Born December 2, 1944, passed away November 18th in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Steve was the adored and adoring husband of Margaret (nee O'Shaughnessy) and the loving and proud father of Martin. He was pre-deceased by his parents, Carolyn and Julius, and his brother Marty
 O'HARA -- Vincent Francis. Died on November 15, 2003 in Wilton, CT. as a result of metastatic cancer. At the time of his death, Vincent O'Hara was 85 years old. Vincent Francis O'Hara was born on September 26, 1918 in Goshen, NY as the third of five children born to Richard Luke O'Hara and 
 SMITH--William T. Of Albany, New York, a Yonkers native and former director of the state's Division of Probation, of an apparent heart attack November 13 at his vacation home in Southbury, CT. Predeceased by his wife Lucille (Walsh) Smith, of Albany, and his sister Helen Sheehan of the Bron
 TISCH--Laurence A. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Faculty at Suffield Academy are deeply saddened by the death of Laurence Tisch. Laurence brought vision, leadership and a kind heart to the world. We are proud that his four sons and one of his grandsons are Suffield Academy alumn
 Satoru Masamune, who developed a wide array of techniques for synthesizing organic molecules, including antibiotics, died on Nov. 9 in Newton, Mass. He was 75. The cause was complications from cardiac arrest, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Dr. Masamune
 Dr. Arthur L. Colwin, part of a husband-and-wife team of biologists who helped uncover the complex process that takes place when a sperm cell and an egg cell merge to form a fertilized egg, died on Nov. 1 at his home in Key Biscayne, Fla. He was 92. In the 1950's, when he an
 Joseph P. Williams, who as a Bank of America executive in the 1950's came up with a revolutionary forerunner of all national bank credit cards, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Atlantis, Fla. He was 88. National cards like the Diners Club card had allowed consumers to pay without cash,
 BRITTENHAM--Raymond L. The Officers, Directors and Staff of The Tinker Foundation Inc., express their deep sorrow at the death of Mr. Raymond L. Brittenham. Mr. Brittenham was a steady rock in the early years of the Foundation's development. He continued his stewardship for thirty-six years
 BROEDY--Alan E. On November 19th in his 60th year. Beloved son of Esther. Brother of Sheila, and uncle of Scott. Having met him, you would not forget him.       
 KAMEN--Michael. A loving friend and extremely talented composer, whose scores enriched motion pictures, and who brought the joy of music to children everywhere through the Mr. Holland's Opus Foundation, which he founded with his brother John. We will miss his humor, his generosity and his k
 KLEINER -- Sam. Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of our dear counsel, Sam Kleiner. For over two decades, he was our invaluable partner, confidant and most importantly, great friend. Beside being a skilled and knowledgeable attorney, Sam was an astute, fair-minded businessman, profoundly r
 MACOMBER--William B., Jr. 82, died peacefully on November 19th in Nantucket of complications from Parkinsons. Loving husband, brother and uncle. Survived by his wife Phyllis and brother John. He served in WWII as a Marine officer in the OSS. Parachuted into France on two occasions to work w
 MORGENROTH -- Steven. Born December 2, 1944, passed away November 18th in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Steve was the adored and adoring husband of Margaret (nee O'Shaughnessy) and the loving and proud father of Martin. He was pre-deceased by his parents, Carolyn and Julius, and his brother Marty
 PALCHIK--Mel, of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Lawrence, New York passed away November 19th surrounded by his loved ones at the age of 78. He is survived by his beloved wife and best friend Toby. He will remain forever in the hearts of his children and cherished by his grandchildren. Don
 RAPP--David. The Board of Directors, faculty and students of Yeshiva and Mesivta Toras Emes mourn the loss of the late David Rapp. A''H, son-in-law of our beloved president Mr. Lester and his wife Esther Klaus. Our sincere and heartfelt condolences to his wife Fraidy and children Menachem, 
 ROSENBERG -- Alan. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Helene, Stacy, Andrew and family. Alan was a great leader and admired by all in our industry. He was a prince and will be missed. Larry, Andrew and the entire Gans Family ROSENBERG--Alan. He was a class act in every aspect of his
 SCHINDLER--Joe P. On November 20, 2003 at the age of 76. Beloved father, grandfather, son and friend passed away after a long and valiant fight with multiple myeloma. Born 1927 in Berlin into a prosperous merchant family. In the mid 1930s the decision to escape the Nazi government, the fami
 Henry Phace Roberts, a tap dancer who performed with the Copasetics and on television and in the movies, died on Nov. 8 in New York. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Born in Savannah, Ga., Mr. Roberts trained as a child by performing on the streets, in the time-honored way of tap. 
 BOUCHARD--Edward F., of Atlantic City, NJ (formerly of Northport, NY) on November 21, 2003, at 79 years of age. WWII veteran U.S. Navy, Lt. JG on USS Holt, retired Director of Safety and Regulatory Affairs with Pfizer Pharmaceuticals. Beloved husband of the late Virginia. Loving father of R
 BROEDY--Alan E. On November 19th in his 60th year. Beloved son of Esther. Brother of Sheila, and uncle of Scott. Having met him, you would not forget him.       
 BURTON--Murray Elias, 78, M.D., F.A.C.S., Former Chief, Orthopedic Service at Hospital for Joint Diseases. Beloved husband of Anna, loving father of Deborah (Stan), Amy (John), and Andy (Sharyn), grandfather of Joshua, brother of Doris, loyal friend to many. Brilliant, witty, irreverent, lo
 FAY--Ronald Patrick. Age 74 of Heathrow, Florida, died Tuesday, November 18, 2003. Ron is lovingly remembered for his warm smile, hearty chuckle, and sense of humor. A humble and modest man, he rarely mentioned his achievements. His integrity was without question and he was born a leader. B
 GELULA--Jerome D. On November 20, 2003, after a long illness. Devoted husband of Maryann. Memorial service for the immediate family will be held at a later date. The family will sit Shiva at the Gelula home on Saturday, 7pm9pm, and Sunday, 2pm-5pm. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made 
 MORGENROTH -- Steven. Born December 2, 1944, passed away November 18th in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Steve was the adored and adoring husband of Margaret (nee O'Shaughnessy) and the loving and proud father of Martin. He was pre-deceased by his parents, Carolyn and Julius, and his brother Marty
 PALCHIK--Mel, of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Lawrence, New York passed away November 19th surrounded by his loved ones at the age of 78. He is survived by his beloved wife and best friend Toby. He will remain forever in the hearts of his children and cherished by his grandchildren. Don
 ROSENBERG -- Alan. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Helene, Stacy, Andrew and family. Alan was a great leader and admired by all in our industry. He was a prince and will be missed. Larry, Andrew and the entire Gans Family       
 SCHINDLER--Joe P., 76, November 20th, passed away after a long and valiant fight with Multiple Myeloma. Survived by children Deborah, Rachel and Aaron, son-in-law Todd Thaler and granddaughter Emma Thaler. We will deeply miss his guidance, leadership, strength, wisdom and love. Funeral serv
 SCHWARTZ--Harold, Ph.D. On Thursday, November 20, 2003 of Short Hills. Beloved husband of Ruth (nee Cohan) Schwartz for 52 years. Devoted father of I.B. Charneau, Liz Hinden and the late Jane Schwartz. Father-in-law of Bertrand Charneau & David Hinden. Loving brother of Irene Brustein. Ador
 STEINHARDT--Jack Leon, on November 19, 2003. A man who knew an ecdysiast from an amanuensis. Decorated for his service in the ETO under General Patton in the 118 SRI Co. Whose love for broadcasting continued in radio stations in the South and Mid-Atlantic. Whose encyclopedic knowledge of mo
 William Butts Macomber Jr., a former government official and diplomat who in 1978 became the first full-time president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Wednesday at his home in Nantucket, Mass. He was 82. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
 Bernard Brightman, who built a successful jazz record company on a foundation of songs about sex and drugs, died on Nov. 9 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, his son Adam said. Mr. Brightman's company, Stash Records, took
 Edward L. Schempp, a parent whose lawsuit against the required reading of Bible verses in school led to a landmark Supreme Court decision in 1963 restricting such practices, died on Nov. 8 at a nursing home in Hayward, Calif. He was 95. A similar case in Baltimore, filed by the athe
 Gordon Onslow Ford, a painter who was one of the last Parisian Surrealists, died on Nov. 9 at his home in Inverness, Calif. He was 90. In Paris in the late 1930's, Mr. Ford was inspired by the abstract approaches to Surrealist painting taken by artists like Joan Miró and André Mas
 BOUCHARD--Edward F., of Atlantic City, NJ (formerly of Northport, NY) on November 21, 2003, at 79 years of age. WWII veteran U.S. Navy, Lt. JG on USS Holt, retired Director of Safety and Regulatory Affairs with Pfizer Pharmaceuticals. Beloved husband of the late Virginia. Loving father of R
 GRATZ--Donald. On November 21, after along battle with cancer. Beloved husband and helpmate of Roberta. Doting father of Laura and Rebecca. Loving brother of Bill. Loving father-in-law of Jon and Joe. Adoring grandfather of Halina, Frank, Stella and Isaac. The owner and guiding force of Gra
 KLEINER--Samuel K., 61 years old, died peacefully on November 18, 2003 after a valiant fight. Beloved and devoted husband, father, grandfather, son, brother, uncle, brother-in-law and friend. He was a highly respected real estate attorney, serving as General Counsel to Fisher Brothers for t
 LOVELL--Douglas G. Of Philadelphia, PA. Born August 17, 1927, died November 17, age 76. He is remembered for his travels to the world's great archaelogical sites, his avid interest in nature, and his infectious enthusiasm. Loving husband to wife Alida, and devoted father to his children; Do
 MACOMBER--William B., Jr. 82, died peacefully on November 19th in Nantucket of complications from Parkinsons. Loving husband, brother and uncle. Survived by his wife Phyllis and brother John. He served in WWII as a Marine officer in the OSS. Parachuted into France on two occasions to work w
 MARTINEZ--Mark W. 46, of Hudson, NY, died November 20th after a long illness. A graduate of Scarsdale High School and Boston University. He worked for IBM. Survived by an aunt Louise Barbara Richardson of Hudson, a nephew and many cousins.       
 MORGENROTH -- Steven. Born December 2, 1944, passed away November 18th in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Steve was the adored and adoring husband of Margaret (nee O'Shaughnessy) and the loving and proud father of Martin. He was pre-deceased by his parents, Carolyn and Julius, and his brother Marty
 PALCHIK--Mel, of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Lawrence, New York passed away November 19th surrounded by his loved ones at the age of 78. He is survived by his beloved wife and best friend Toby. He will remain forever in the hearts of his children and cherished by his grandchildren. Don
 REID--William J. November 17, 2003, in Albany, NY. An internationally - recognized leader in advancing the scientific knowlege base of social work; author of over 20 books and 160 articles; the developer of the ''Task Centered Practice'' model now widely used in social services around the w
 ROSENBERG--Alan. He was a class act in every aspect of his life: family, business and friends. You will be in our hearts always. Bruce, Nancy & Emily Freilicher       
 SCHAETZEL--J. Robert. On November 7, 2003, at home in Bethesda, MD. He is survived by his wife Imogen Spencer Schaetzel, two daughters and four grandchildren. There will not be a memorial service. Contributions in his name could be sent to America Coming Together (ACT), 1120 Connecticut Ave
 SCHINDLER--Joe P., 76, November 20th, passed away after a long and valiant fight with Multiple Myeloma. Survived by children Deborah, Rachel and Aaron, son-in-law Todd Thaler and granddaughter Emma Thaler. We will deeply miss his guidance, leadership, strength, wisdom and love. Funeral serv
 van DUUREN--Benjamin, a pioneering cancer researcher who identified cancer-causing chemicals in cigarettes and was in part responsible for the warning label on cigarettes, died suddenly in Manhattan on Thursday, November 13. He was 77. van Duuren became a world-renowned cancer researcher du
 ANNIS--Herbert, age 87, died peacefully at home in Oceanside, NY, on November 22, 2003. He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Esther; children, Susan Beth (Hileman), Jeffrey, Jean Lee (Mishkin); grandchildren, Billy, Jennifer, Sarah, Rebecca, Naomi, Miriam and Benjamin and brother Martin.
 BRONSON--Howard C. On November 21, 2003, at age 77. Beloved husband of Clara Bronson. Loving father of Valerie Bronson and stepfather of Louis Wirtz and his wife Diane Wirtz. Dear brother of Mickey Bronson. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday No
 GELBERG -- Frederick. 84. Beloved husband of Terie Gelberg (nee Isaacs) and the loving father of Barbara Freundlich (Richard), Jonathan Gelberg (Debra) and Steven Gelberg (Nilima). Adored grandfather of Amanda and Ali Angerman, and Michael and Robert Gelberg. Mr. Gelberg will be remembered 
 GRATZ--Donald. On November 21, after along battle with cancer. Beloved husband and helpmate of Roberta. Doting father of Laura and Rebecca. Loving brother of Bill. Loving father-in-law of Jon and Joe. Adoring grandfather of Halina, Frank, Stella and Isaac. The owner and guiding force of Gra
 MENKE--Alexander Stuart. Died peacefully in his sleep at home in Pasadena, CA, on Saturday, November 22, 2003. He was an honorable and loving gentleman. He is survived by his devoted wife Virginia, and caring children John Milton, Laurie Zatkowski and Jason, a brother, John Roger, and a sis
 POOLE--Henry P. 40 year resident of Malverne, suddenly on November 22, 2003. Beloved husband of 47 years to Jacqueline. Loving father of Margaret, Nancy Parker (Terrence), Jacqueline Zerilli (Steven), Patricia, Michael J. (Andrea), and Daniel P. (Tara). Dear grandfather of Ryan, Janine, Jos
 ROBIN--Franklin Ellis, who served in the OSS in World War II, died in Ridgewood, NJ, on Tuesday, November 19, 2003. During his 30 year career at Dun and Bradstreet, Mr. Robin maintained homes in Manhattan and Brick Town, NJ, until recently. He was 88. Born in Rutherford, NJ, on September 8,
 Tony Thompson, a drummer whose beat for Chic helped define both disco and hip-hop, died on Nov. 12 in Los Angeles. He was 48 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was renal cell cancer, according to his family's Web site, tonythompsonfund.com. Mr. Thompson applied meticulous t
 Hugh Kenner, the critic, author and professor of literature regarded as America's foremost commentator on literary modernism, especially the work of Ezra Pound and James Joyce, died yesterday at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 80. He had been suffering from heart problems, his wife, 
 BRONSON--Howard C. On November 21, 2003, at age 77. Beloved husband of Clara Bronson. Loving father of Valerie Bronson and stepfather of Louis Wirtz and his wife Diane Wirtz. Dear brother of Mickey Bronson. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday No
 CHANANAU--Alexander. On November 22, 2003 at the age of 88. His wife Adele of 65 years of marriage, his daughter Rosalind, granddaughters Sarah & Allison, his son-inlaw Gary Karlitz and his four step-grandchildren, remember him lovingly. Born in New York City in 1915, he worked his way thro
 EDELSON--Jeffry. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Jeffry Edelson, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his parents, Ellen and Steven, and the entire family. Marc Goldberg, President Rabbi Stanley Platek       
 FRANK--John Harrison, 83, of New York, N.Y., passed away on November 24, 2003 surrounded by his loving family. He is survived by his devoted wife of 57 years, Gloria, his three loving daughters Penny, Rosemary and Terri and six grandchildren. John was a graduate of Yale University and owner
 GELBERG -- Frederick. 84. Beloved husband of Terie Gelberg (nee Isaacs) and the loving father of Barbara Freundlich (Richard), Jonathan Gelberg (Debra) and Steven Gelberg (Nilima). Adored grandfather of Amanda and Ali Angerman, and Michael and Robert Gelberg. Mr. Gelberg will be remembered 
 GOLDSTEIN -- Sylvia. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Sylvia Goldstein, beloved mother of Burton Goldstein. We extend our condolences to Burton and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 GRATZ--Donald, on November 22, after a long battle with Cancer. Beloved husband and helpmate of Roberta. Doting father of Laura and Rebecca. Loving brother of Bill. Loving father-in-law of Jon and Joe. Adoring grandfather of Halina, Frank, Stella and Isaac. The owner and guiding force of Gr
 HAKIM--Touba. The Israel Cancer Research Fund expresses sincere condolences to Kamran Hakim, a member of our International Board of Trustees, and his wife, Ellen, on the passing of his beloved mother, Touba Hakim. Yashar Hirshaut, M.D., Pres. Leah Susskind, Chairperson Simon Kaminetsky, Dir
 KARP--Abraham J., Rabbi, professor, scholar and bibliophile. Born April 5, 1921, Amdur (Indura) Poland. Arrived in New York 1930. Died November 24, 2003 in New York. Educated at Yeshiva University High School, Yeshiva College, the Jewish Theological Seminary of America and Columbia Universi
 KLEINER--Eugene. Died November 20, 2003 in Los Altos Hills, California, at the age of 80. He was predeceased by his loving and beloved wife of 54 years, Rose Kleiner (2001). He is survived by his children Robert Kleiner and Lisa Kleiner Chanoff, grandchildren Jake Kleiner and Yael, Talia an
 MENKE--Alexander Stuart. Died peacefully in his sleep at home in Pasadena, CA, on Saturday, November 22, 2003. He was an honorable and loving gentleman. He is survived by his devoted wife Virginia, and caring children John Milton, Laurie Zatkowski and Jason, a brother, John Roger, and a sis
 POOLE--Henry P. 40 year resident of Malverne, suddenly on November 22, 2003. Beloved husband of 47 years to Jacqueline. Loving father of Margaret, Nancy Parker (Terrence), Jacqueline Zerilli (Steven), Patricia, Michael J. (Andrea), and Daniel P. (Tara). Dear grandfather of Ryan, Janine, Jos
 SHERMAN--Nathan. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., mourns the passing of Nathan Sherman, beloved husband of Lydia, cherished father of Shelley Sherman and David Diamond. Nathan was a generous benfactor of Hadassah, devoted to Israel and the Jewish people. His lega
 SMALL--Michael Lewis, age 64, passed away surrounded by his loving family on November 24, 2003. He is survived by his adoring wife, Lynn, and his beloved children Jonathan and David. Michael wrote musical scores for over 50 feature films and TV programs, as well as hundreds of TV and radio 
 TAWIL--Ike. We grieve with the family of Ike Tawil. We grieve with his dear Joy. We will miss his sweet, kind presence. Heartfelt, Alice and Louis Weiss       
 Paul J. Haskins, an editor at The New York Times who earlier directed The Kansas City Times's Pulitzer Prize-winning coverage of a disastrous hotel walkway collapse in 1981, died on Sunday in Cancún, Mexico. He was 62. The cause was pneumonia and other complications of emphysema, h
 Warren Spahn, who in a career spanning 21 seasons won 363 games, the major league record for a left-handed pitcher, died yesterday at his home in Broken Arrow, Okla. He was 82. Confounding batters with a fluid, high-kicking motion and an assortment of pitches that nicked the corners
 FURLONG--Robert Gordon. A marketing executive from Montclair, NJ, died at his home on November 23. He was 81. A graduate of Brown University, he served as a decorated gunnery officer in the Pacific Theater aboard the US Navy DestroyerMinesweeper, USS Chandler, and was a retired Lt. Commande
 GELBERG--Frederick. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Frederick Gelberg, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Terie and their family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 HABIG--Joseph Bernard, died September 21, 2003 in Middletown, NJ of Parkinson's Disease. Mr. Habig worked as Artist and Repertoire Producer at RCA, Victor Red Seal for 19 years (1954-1973) and at Reader's Digest Music Division for 16 years (1973-1989) as Executive Producer. He worked with m
 HAREL--Ezra. On November 24, 2003, at sea, age 53. Dearly beloved husband of Adina, loving father Naama, Lavi and Lee, and father-in-law of Eyal. Devoted brother of Boaz Harel, and Irit Denai. A more devoted father and husband did not exist. Burial later this week in Israel. He is gone but 
 KARP -- Abraham J. The American Jewish Historical Society mourns the passing of Rabbi Abraham J. Karp, who served as President of The Society from 1972 to 1975. A distinguished scholar of American Jewish history and collector of rare books and original documents, Abe Karp helped shape the S
 LAMBERT--Howard A. On November 25, 2003 (the 115th wedding anniversary of his parents). Beloved brother of nine. Survived by Mary E. Lambert and Grace L. Skoglund. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Formerly of Lambert & Skoglund Company, C.D. Mallory and Glander Intl. The family wil
 PRICE--Thomas E. Age 82, died November 23 in Cincinnati. Lifelong resident of Cincinnati. Business executive and tennis enthusiast. Graduate of the University of Texas, where he was a star of the tennis and basketball teams in the early '40s. Served as a lieutenant in the US Army Air Corps 
 SPELKE--Henry. Of Delray, FL, formerly of Stamford, CT. Died Monday, November 24, 2003 in his 95th year. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his wife, Judy, sons, Robert and Clifford, daughter-in-law Leslie, and grandchildren, Craig, Samantha, Jenna, and Brandon, who 
 STERNBERG -- Maurice, known more familiarly as ''Uncle Maurice'' of Knights Day Camp to some 35,000 children, parents, and staff, died November 9th at the age of 92. He will be sorely missed by his son, daughter and grandchildren. His unfailing sense of humor and kind demeanor we hope will 
 WACHENHEIM--Edgar, Jr. With great love and sadness, we mourn the passing of Edgar Wachenheim Jr., on November 25, 2003 at the age of 96. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Marshall Wachenheim. Devoted father of Scott and Edgar III. He is also survived by a sister, Jessie Burack, seven grandchildr
 Teddy Randazzo, who with Bobby Weinstein and others wrote hundreds of popular songs like ''Goin' Out of My Head'' and ''It's Gonna Take a Miracle,'' died on Friday at his home in Orlando. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said Mr. Weinstein, his longtime friend and songwritin
 W. Fred Turner, the lawyer chosen to represent Clarence Earl Gideon after the Supreme Court said in a landmark case that the indigent Mr. Gideon had the right to such representation, died on Sunday at home in Panama City, Fla. He was 81. Underlining the rationale for the Supreme Cou
 Donald Gratz, a craftsman in metal whose creative realizations transformed the renderings of artists and architects into objects of art, died on Nov. 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Roberta Brandes Gratz. The owner of Gratz Indust
 Hal Walker, one of the first African-American journalists on television news in the 1960's, died Tuesday in his home in Reston, Va. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter Sarah Walker. Mr. Walker was the first black correspondent hired by CBS News, and c
 CORWIN--Allan Roy. Of New York City, passed away on November 19, 2003. Beloved husband of Gladys, loving son of Irving, of Great Neck, and brother Jules of New York City. He will be lovingly remembered by family and friends. Services private. We will miss you forever. Your friends and famil
 FAWER--Gertrude. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Gertrude Fawer, beloved mother of Martin Fawer. Martin, his wife, Estanne, and his sons, David, Mark, and Andrew, are cherished friends and devoted supporters of UJA-Federation. W
 GUTNER -- Leonard Beryl, M.D., 86, died on November 26 from complications due to Alzheimer's Disease. Dr. Gutner received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College, a Master's degree from Columbia University and his medical degree from New York University. He is survived by his most b
 WACHENHEIM--Edgar, Jr. With great love and sadness, we mourn the passing of Edgar Wachenheim Jr., on November 25, 2003 at the age of 96. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Marshall Wachenheim. Devoted father of Scott and Edgar III. He is also survived by a sister, Jessie Burack, seven grandchildr
 Teddy Wilburn, who with his older brother Doyle formed one of the most popular country-music duos in the 1950's and 1960's and later played a vital role in the careers of Loretta Lynn and Patty Loveless as song publisher and manager, died on Monday in Nashville. He was 71. The cause
 DURKAN--Mr. Thomas R., Sr., of New York City and Dalton, GA, passed away on Tuesday evening, November 25, 2003 at his home in Georgia. Mr. Durkan was the founder of Durkan Patterned Carpet, Inc. Mr. Durkan was born in New York City on October 18, 1925, the son of Irish immigrants Thomas R. 
 FISHER--Andrew M. We mourn the death of our bright, shining star who at 22 years of age, was tragically taken from us on Thursday November 27, 2003. Andrew was a budding artist who floated above this earth with his sunny disposition and happy view of life. He was the light of our lives. He 
 HOFFMAN -- Benjamin, 87, MD, F.A.C.S. Beloved husband of Irma. Adored father of Andrea (Michael) Harrison and Dr. Ian Hoffman. Loving grandfather of Joshua, Rachel and Jessica. Dear brother of the late Sidney Hoffman. Devoted uncle of Dr. Allan (Sue) Hoffman. Brilliant and prominent surgeon
 KLEINER -- Eugene. The Board of Trustees, administration, faculty and students of Polytechnic University mourn the passing of Eugene Kleiner, an alumnus, trustee and a 1989 Honorary Doctorate of Engineering recipient of the University. As a founder of Fairchild Semiconductor, the first succ
 KRUPP--A. Philip of Chestnut Hill, MA and Palm Beach, FL, entered into rest November 26, 2003. He was the beloved husband of Bernice (Carlin). Dear son of the late Gussie and Joseph Krupp. Devoted father of George and Lizbeth Krupp (Rickles), Douglas and Judith Krupp (Hurwitz) and Joanne Kr
 PAUL--Robert David. On November 27, 2003 at age 75 of a brain tumor. Retired President and Chairman of The Segal Company; Founder and former Chairman of the Employee Benefit Research Institute; Board member of WellChoice, Inc.; and former Board member of Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, In
 SIBINGA--Maarten Smit, M.D. Age 76 of Media, PA on November 16, 2003 from respiratory failure after a long illness. Dr. Sibinga, born in the Netherlands, was a pediatrician who specialized in gastroenterology and practiced for many years at St. Christopher's Hospital for Children in Philade
 SPELKE--Henry. Of Delray, FL, formerly of Stamford, CT. Died Monday, November 24, 2003 in his 95th year. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his wife, Judy, sons, Robert and Clifford, daughter-in-law Leslie, and grandchildren, Craig, Samantha, Jenna, and Brandon, who 
 WILLIAMSON--Jack, 76, died November 20, Hilton Head, SC. Founder and president, DiFranza Williamson, NYC 1955-1989. An award-winning artist and graduate of Parsons School of Design. Mr. Williamson is survived by his wife Irene, six children Arthur Williamson, Jacqueline Piro, John A. Willia
 Bernard S. Cohn, who spent his life studying and writing about British influence on modern Indian culture and society, died here on Tuesday after a long illness. He was 75. Mr. Cohn, a professor of anthropology and history at the University of Chicago until he retired in 1995, was k
 FISHER--Andrew M. We mourn the death of our bright, shining star who at 22 years of age, was tragically taken from us on Thursday November 27, 2003. Andrew was a budding artist who floated above this earth with his sunny disposition and happy view of life. He was the light of our lives. He 
 GORDON--William J. Of Baldwin on November 28, 2003. Age 74 years. Devoted husband of Evelyn (nee Pedersen) for almost 51 years. They met at Wagner College where they both sang and toured with the Wagner College choir. They became college sweethearts and were engaged on graduation day. Belov
 PAUL--Robert David. On November 27, 2003 at age 75 of a brain tumor. Retired President and Chairman of The Segal Company; Founder and former Chairman of the Employee Benefit Research Institute; Board member of WellChoice, Inc.; and former Board member of Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, In
 SLATTERY--Rev. Maurice (Bud), on November 25th. CDR. USN, Ret. Survived by his sister Eileen Murphy, six nieces and nephews, five grand-nieces and a grandnephew. Calling hours Sunday, November 30th, 3-5 and 7-9 PM at Cassidy-Flynn Funeral Home, 288 Main St., Mt. Kisco, NY. Mass Monday, Dece
 WEISS--Gus W. Of Washington, D.C. on November 25, 2003 at age 72. Beloved son of the late Gus and Natalie Weiss. Loving nephew of Lillian Weiss and dear cousin of Joan Poorvu and Claire Weisman. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Monday, December 1st at 1 PM. Interme
 Sadegh Khalkhali, the first leader of the Islamic Revolutionary Courts in Iran after the 1979 revolution, who ordered the execution of hundreds of people, died Wednesday. He was 77. Mr. Khalkhali had had Parkinson's disease for a long time, his publisher said. Mr. Khalkhali's son, M
 Bishop Robert L. DeWitt, who helped change the face of the Episcopal Church in America with the ordination of women, died on Nov. 21 in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 87. Over six decades as a churchman, he became a socially liberal activist widely known for outspoken advocacy in the
 BLYNN--Bryce (Buz) Jr. 79, Vero Beach, FL, and Riverside, CT died Thursday, November 27th, at home in Riverside. The son of Mabel Howard Post Reid and Bryce Blynn, he was born in Philadelphia, PA. He grew up in Chestnut Hill, and graduated in 1942 from Chestnut Hill Academy, where he was ca
 FISHER--Andrew M. We mourn the death of our bright, shining star who at 22 years of age, was tragically taken from us on Thursday November 27, 2003. Andrew was a budding artist who floated above this earth with his sunny disposition and happy view of life. He was the light of our lives. He 
 KRUPP--A. Philip. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and The American Associates family mourn the loss of Philip Krupp, a dear friend who helped establish American Associates, Ben-Gurion University in 1972. Philip served on the AABGU National Board and as a past president for the New Englan
 LAMBRIOLA -- Vincent James. On November 28, 2003, in Middletown, CT. Formerly of Bellmore, NY, and Montauk, NY. He was a 22 year retired veteran of the NYC Police Department and former Vice President of Feature Ring, Inc. Devoted husband of Angela, loving father of Vincent, Linda and James.
 MAILICK--Sidney. Age 80, of Forest Hills, NY, on November 28, 2003, in New York City. Beloved husband of Mildred for 56 years. Devoted father of Daniel and Marsha. Father-in-law of Lydia Read and Gary Seltzer. Cherished grandfather of Beth, Rebecca, Adina and Rachel. Loving brother of Belle
 OWCZAR--Daniel M. Of San Antonio, TX, died Friday, November 21, 2003 in San Antonio. The cause of death was lung cancer. Mr. Owczar was with Citibank for 34 years. Starting in 1969 as a teller, he rose to become a Vice President and Senior Director at Citibank's United States Service Center
 PAUL--Robert David. On November 27, 2003 at age 75 of a brain tumor. Retired President and Chairman of The Segal Company; Founder and former Chairman of the Employee Benefit Research Institute; Board member of WellChoice, Inc.; and former Board member of Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, In
 PERGAMENT--Elmer M. Of Savannah, GA. passed away on November 5, 2003. He was born in New York City on May 11, 1918. He graduated from CCNY in 1938. He is survived by his wife Cleta; two daughters; two grandchildren; and two step-daughters.       
 SAPOSNIK--Irving. Friends & family honor the memory of a loving and compassionate Jewish scholar, friend, father, grandfather and teacher. Died at age 67 November 20, Madison, Wisconsin surrounded by his wife Francie, his children & grandchildren.       
 SAURWEIN--Paul G. Of Cambridge, MA, on November 25, 2003. Former husband of Margaret (Hammond) of Nashua, NH. Father of Margot Powell of Lincoln, RI, George Saurwein of Riverside, RI, and the late Lisa Pajeski and Eric Saurwein. Brother of Jean Saurwein of Brockton, MA, Carol Sullivan of Wo
 THOMPSON--Sidney O. Died peacefully at age 83 November 28, 2003, in Litchfield Park, AZ. Former resident of Pound Ridge, NY. He is survived by his beloved wife of 62 years, Mercedes (Huppeler) Thompson and three children, Pamela G. Thompson of Falmouth, MA, Gretchen T. Goodwillie of Geneva,
 VAN NOSTRAND--Brad. The entire Forbidden Broadway family mourns the tragic death of this unique and extraordinary man. Our hearts go out to his family. One of the funniest and kindest people to walk the earth; a light has gone out in the world.       
 WACHENHEIM--Edgar, Jr. The Board of Directors and staff of The Guidance Center mourn the passing of Edgar Wachenheim, Jr., Honorary Chairman of the Board, gracious philanthropist, passionate advocate for social action and beloved friend. Generous with his time, wisdom and good counsel, he w
 WALKER--Tommy Ray. Beloved husband of Eunice Salton. Father of Dallas Walker Pender. Father-in-law of John Pender IV and grandfather of Ellen Van Horn Pender. Died in Costa Rica on November 21, 2003, victim of a tragic drowning accident. Born on November 28, 1941, to Euphie and Frank Walker
 WEISS--Arthur. Devoted husband of 66 years to Belle. Loving father to Carol and Martin. Adoring grandfather to Jay and Laura and Mindy and Todd. Proud and affectionate great-grandfather to Emily, Josh, Eli, Drew, Charley and Julia. Gramps will be missed more than words can say. He loved us 
 WEISS--Gus W. Of Washington, D.C. on November 25, 2003 at age 72. Beloved son of the late Gus and Natalie Weiss. Loving nephew of Lillian Weiss and dear cousin of Joan Poorvu and Claire Weisman. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Monday, December 1st at 1 PM. Interme
 WOLFRAM--Harold W. On November 26, 2003, in his 97th year in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. Loving husband of the late Frances. Devoted father of Neil and father-in-law of Marianne. Cherished grandfather of Bruce J. Wolfram and Nicole W. Kerr (Russell). Adoring great-grandfather of Nathaniel W. Ker
