 Anton Burg, an expert on the nonmetallic element boron who developed compounds used as building blocks in the creation of synthetic materials, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 99. The experiments Dr. Burg conducted in the early 1930's as an instructor at the Univer
 FINK--N. John ''Jack.'' 78, formerly of New York, passed away peacefully on November 28, 2003, surrounded by his family in Boca Raton, FL. For information, contact Babione Funeral Home (561395-8787).       
 FRIED--Walter J. Of New York and East Hampton, in his 100th year. Husband of the late Brita Digby Fried, father of Michael Faraday, stepfather of Allison Blinken and Mimi Einstein, grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of one. In accordance with his wishes there will be no funeral serv
 NEUMANN--Gerard Anthony. 1928-2003. Gerard ''Rod'' Neumann of Saddle River, NJ, and Mattituck, NY, died at home on November 28, surrounded by his loving family. While he had much to be proud of in his professional life, he counted his family as his crowning achievement. He is survived by hi
 PERLMUTTER -- Isadore I. Dear Joan, our love and sympathy to you and your family. Sally and Iris PERLMUTTER--Isidore Irving. 92, on November 29, 2003. Devoted husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of Ellen Small and Joan (Paul) Schreiber. Beloved grandfather of Lara (Aviv) Laurenc
 VAN NOSTRAND--Brad. The entire Forbidden Broadway family mourns the tragic death of this unique and extraordinary man. Our hearts go out to his family. One of the funniest and kindest people to walk the earth; a light has gone out in the world.       
 WEISS--Gus W. Of Washington, D.C. on November 25, 2003 at age 72. Beloved son of the late Gus and Natalie Weiss. Loving nephew of Lillian Weiss and dear cousin of Joan Poorvu and Claire Weisman. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Monday, December 1st at 1 PM. Interme
 Judge Raymond J. Pettine, a federal judge in Rhode Island whose rulings in several prominent cases included ordering an overhaul of the Rhode Island prison system and banning a Nativity scene on public property, died on Nov. 17 in Dallas. He was 91. Judge Pettine, who was appointed 
 Barber B. Conable Jr., an influential Republican congressman from western New York who as president of the World Bank steered it through a turbulent period of defaults and restructuring, died on Sunday at his winter home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 81 and lived in Alexander, in Genesee County.
 Clark Kerr, who created the blueprint for public higher education in the United States while president of the University of California system in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday afternoon in El Cerrito, Calif. He was 92. Although Mr. Kerr transformed the shape and the scope of pu
 AARONS--Morris, a New York City attorney who was elevated to the judiciary in 1969 died on December 1, 2003 at age 96. Judge Aarons graduated from Fordham University School of Pharmacy in 1927 and received a law degree from Saint John's University in 1931. He became trial counsel for Pruden
 EISENBERG -- Herbert Je rome. Born June 3, 1928, left us reluctantly on December 1, 2003. Beloved and cherished husband of 52 years to Beverly Bruh Eisenberg. Devoted and adored father to Elyse and Richard Coleman, Shari and Steven Sitkoff, Lori and Jay Eisenberg and Risa and David Milbauer
 FACTOR--Morris, M.D. Loving and devoted husband to Elaine. Cherished father of David and Dayle and adoring grandfather of Claire Rebecca. He enjoyed an active life including extensive traveling, music, theatre, photography and driving his Model 'A' Fords. In his practice of psychoanalysis f
 FISHER--Andrew. The Metropolitan Opera family mourns the tragic death of Andrew Fisher, grandson of our close friend and managing director, Emily Fisher Landau. We extend to her and to Andrew's parents and to his entire family, our deepest condolences on this devastating loss. Our thoughts 
 FRIED--Walter J. Of New York and East Hampton, in his 100th year. Husband of the late Brita Digby Fried, father of Michael Faraday, stepfather of Allison Blinken and Mimi Einstein, grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of one. In accordance with his wishes there will be no funeral serv
 LEEDS--Dr. Leonard W., 90, of Monroe Township, N.J., on November 30, 2003. He was predeceased by his wife of 58 years, Sylvia (Tenenbaum). Father of Ronald and his wife Judith, Richard and his wife Linda and Andrea Eisenberg and her husband Michael. Brother of Morton and Joseph Leeds. Grand
 MAHARRY--Robert of New York City died November 27 in New Hampshire. Survived by his loving wife of 15 years, Eileen, his beloved children Robert, Sharon, Tracey and Paul. Devoted grandfather of Jennifer, Megan, Sarah, Ryan, Jason, Micah, Keri, Jesse, Jessica, Gabrielle, Alexis, Paul Jr. and
 MAILICK--Sidney. The faculty, staff and students of the Wagner School mourn the passing of Sidney Mailick, Professor Emeritus at NYU. Professor Mailick was a gifted teacher and advanced the mission of training public servants, both in the U.S. and in Israel. We extend our sincere condolence
 ORZACK--Louis, of Newton formerly of New York, passed away November 27, 2003. He was the beloved husband of Maressa (Hecht). Dear son of the late Morris and Jennie Orzack. Devoted father of Deborah of Worcester, Steven Orzack and Ariane Cherbuliez of Cambridge, Elizabeth and Joshua Friedman
 SCHUMAN--Benjamin. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sadness the death of Benjamin Schuman, father of Ira Schuman, our devoted Trustee and Chair of the Real Estate Committee. Our condolences to Ira, his wife Amy, his mother Flore
 Walter J. Fried, a real estate lawyer who handled the conversion of prime Manhattan apartment buildings like the Beresford and the Ritz Tower into cooperatives, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 99 and lived in Manhattan and East Hampton. Mr. Fried was a ret
 Julian Hirsch, an electrical engineer and writer who was among the first to help a growing audience of audiophiles sort through the good, the bad and the indifferent in electronic sound equipment, died on Nov. 24 in the Bronx. He was 81 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. Starting in th
 Meyer Kupferman, a prolific composer whose music embraced both jazz and 12-tone techniques, died on Wednesday near Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Rhinebeck. The cause was heart failure, said William Anderson, a guitarist who has performed Mr. Kupferman's music and is a frien
 Edward W. Scudder, former owner and president of The Newark News and the Newark Broadcasting Corporation, died on Nov. 27 at his home in Lake Placid, N.Y. He was 91. His principal residence was in Delray Beach, Fla., his son Edward said. Edward Wallace Scudder Jr. was born o
 George Arthur Murphy, former president and chairman of the Irving Trust Company and a civic leader who headed the board of trustees of New York University in the 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, Conn. He was 97. Mr. Murphy spent his banking career with Irving Trust,
 James Carter, who one September day in 1959 led fellow prisoners at the Mississippi State Penitentiary in a melancholy work song, ''Po' Lazarus,'' which became an unexpected Grammy Award-winning hit, died last Wednesday in Oak Park, Ill. He was 77 and lived in Chicago. His family sa
 BROWN--L. Palmer. The Board of Directors, volunteers, and staff of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society express deep sorrow on the passing of L. Palmer Brown, who died November 27 at the age of 93. Mr. Brown was a National Board Member of the Society from 1953 to 2000. He served the Soci
 ELGHANAYAN--John. The Touro family joins Mrs. Elghanayan and the children in mourning the loss of their patriarch and a longtime member and dear friend of Touro College, Mr. John Elghanayan of blessed memory. His devotion and longtime participation in the Board of Trustees of Touro will be 
 ELLENBOGEN--Robert, PhD On December 1, 2003. Devoted father of Joshua and Benjamin and father-in-law of Sarah. Services Friday 9:30 am at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory may be made to The Alfred Adler Institute and Center, 5911
 GLASER -- Leon. DOROT mourns the loss of our visionary friend at the J.E. and Z.B. Butler Foundation, whose heartfelt compassion for the aged made him an effective champion of our work--to the benefit of thousands of frail elders. Our hearts go out to Evelyn, Janet, Naomi, and the entire fa
 GREENHAUS--Lawrence R. Age 83, died peacefully in Doylestown, Pa., December 3. He was a retired Vice President of Joy Mfg Company. He is loved and mourned by his wife of 56 years Gwen Davies, by sons James and Michael, daughter Jody, and grandchildren Matthew, Jeffrey, Samantha and Vanessa.
 JASPAN--Rosalyn (nee Richman) of Woodmere, NY, on December 3, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Judge Joseph Jaspan. Devoted mother of Arthur and his wife Linda, Stanley and his wife Phyllis. Adored grandmother of five, & loving great-grandmother of twelve. Funeral Thursday, 1PM, Boulevard Riv
 LINDQUIST--Warren T. ''Lindy''. My dear friend Lindy Lindquist died November 15, 2003 at his home in Seal Harbor, ME. He was 84. From the time Lindy and I served together in Paris during WWII, he was my trusted associate in the fields of banking and urban affairs. As Executive Director of t
 MURPHY -- George Arthur, age 97, former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Irving Trust Company (now the Bank of New York) and former Chairman of the Board of NYU, died December 2, 2003 at his home in Washington, CT. His banking career spanned 39 years as a corporate d
 SCHICK--Alexander. Age 92 of Pawling, New York. Died on November 26, 2003 in Paris, France. He leaves two devoted stepchildren, Janine Luke and Anthony Evnin, two step-grandchildren, Luke and Timothy Evnin, and four step-great-grandchildren.       
 SPATZ--Irving. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Survived by his children, Audrey Spatz, Martin and Janet Spatz, Walter and Susan Spatz. Service will be held privately.       
 WEAVER--William M., Jr., of New York City, died on November 28, 2003 at the age of 91. He is survived by his wife, Rosemary, and four daughters, Marcia Campbell and Patricia Wurts, both of Philadelphia, PA, Wendy Chaix of New York City, and Alison Weaver of Easton, CT; six grandchildren and
 WINDMULLER--John Philip. The Martin P. Catherwood Professor of Industrial and Labor Relations Emeritus at Cornell University, died on December 2, 2003 at Kendal in Ithaca, NY following a long illness. John Windmuller was born on December 4, 1923 in Dortmund, Germany, son of Solomon and Bert
 Alan Davidson, a diplomat whose passion for food and its history led him to write indispensable works on seafood and to edit the comprehensive Oxford Companion to Food, died on Tuesday in London. He was 79. He was taken to the Chelsea and Westminster hospital after collapsing at his
 BAKER--William F., of Troy N.Y. on December 1, 2003 at age 90 at home in Londonderry, VT. Devoted husband of Helen (nee Foley). Beloved father of Ellen Thorner, Susan Carlucci, and Edward T. Also survived by six grandchildren, two great grandchildren, a brother Edward of Alabama and many ni
 BROWN--Richard C. (Jeff), 77, died suddenly on December 3 in NYC. Survived by his wife Elizabeth, his sons, J.C., Tony and Duncan, and his brother Robert. Jeff was a young Broadway actor, a film producer, an editor for The New Yorker, Saturday Evening Post, Life and Esquire; and with Pocket
 HAMILTON--Reverend Monsignore Lamont R. Died December 3, 2003 at age 50. Born June 2, 1953 in Manhattan to Morris and Margaret E. (nee Coker) Hamilton. He was Ordained November 3, 1979 and was later named a Prelate of Honor by His Holiness, Pope John Paul II, November 25, 1999. He graduated
 KUPFERMAN--Meyer. Sarah Lawrence College notes with sorrow the death of Meyer Kupferman, emeritus member of the music faculty. From 1951 until his retirement in 1993, he was a central figure in the development of the Sarah Lawrence music program, introducing generations of students to music
 LINDQUIST--Warren T. ''Lindy''. My dear friend Lindy Lindquist died November 15, 2003 at his home in Seal Harbor, ME. He was 84. From the time Lindy and I served together in Paris during WWII, he was my trusted associate in the fields of banking and urban affairs. As Executive Director of t
 REBOLLEDO--Richard. Died on December 2nd, 2003. He was born on July 12, 1923. He is survived by wife Ilse, daughters Stephanie Levy and Sandra Gwinn, sons Stephen Rebolledo and Richard Rebolledo Jr., granddaughters Maritza Kelesis and Tatiana Rebolledo, grandsons Alexander Zaro, Justin Gwin
 SCHICK--Alexander. Age 92 of Pawling, New York. Died on November 26, 2003 in Paris, France. He leaves two devoted stepchildren, Janine Luke and Anthony Evnin, two step-grandchildren, Luke and Timothy Evnin, and four step-great-grandchildren.       
 STALLWORTH--Samuel S. Jr. 57, of Tampa, died peacefully Monday, December 1, 2003 at Tampa General Hospital surrounded by his family. He was diagnosed with lung cancer in October. Mr. Stallworth had been Vice President and General Manager of WFTS/ABC-TV since 2000. He was very active in the 
 STEINBERG--Meyer. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Meyer Steinberg. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Service on Sunday, December 7, 1 PM, at Park Avenue Synagogue. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Ro
 VALENTINE--Richard Hewlett, in Pasadena, CA, on December 2, 2003, at age 83. Of counsel at Seward & Kissel and partner at VK Associates. Beloved husband of Nancy W. Valentine. Loving father of Nancy Valentine Avila, Patricia Valentine, Paul Valentine and the late Sandra Valentine, and stepf
 WEAVER--William M., Jr., of New York City, died on November 28, 2003 at the age of 91. He is survived by his wife, Rosemary, and four daughters, Marcia Campbell and Patricia Wurts, both of Philadelphia, PA, Wendy Chaix of New York City, and Alison Weaver of Easton, CT; six grandchildren and
 ZLOTKOWSKI--John Michael Alan. Age 24, died December 3, 2003 at home. Poet, philosopher, and stand up comedian, Zlotkowski was raised and resided in Old Bridge, NJ all of his life. He graduated Old Bridge High School in 1997. Survivors: Father and stepmother Alan and Margaret Zlotkowski; mo
 CHILLE--Franz, M.D. 12/0/02. 1ST ANNIVERSARY. HE LIVED GLADLY. HIS LOVING FAMILY       
 Aaron Schreier, a Michigan architect who early in his career was project director of the World Trade Center's design team and later collaborated with its architect, Minoru Yamasaki, on projects he built around the country, died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Mich. He was 72.    
 Dr. John A. Kenney Jr., a leading specialist in dermatological conditions afflicting African-Americans, died on Nov. 29 at his home in Washington. He was 89. The cause of death was heart failure, said his daughter Anne Kenney of Brooklyn. Dr. Kenney was one of the first blac
 Jeff Brown, a magazine editor and short-story writer who created Flat Stanley, the two-dimensional hero of an enduring series of children's books, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was a heart attack he suffered while walking near 
 ADELSON--Howard L. On December 5, 2003. Loving father of Sarah and Mark and father-in-law of Curtis and Margie. Dear brother of the late Judah. Adoring grandfather of Jonathan. He will be deeply missed by his many cousins, friends and students. Service Sunday, 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 
 HAMILTON--Reverend Monsignore Lamont R. Died December 3, 2003 at age 50. Born June 2, 1953 in Manhattan to Morris and Margaret E. (nee Coker) Hamilton. He was Ordained November 3, 1979 and was later named a Prelate of Honor by His Holiness, Pope John Paul II, November 25, 1999. He graduated
 KUPFERMAN--Meyer. Sarah Lawrence College notes with sorrow the death of Meyer Kupferman, emeritus member of the music faculty. From 1951 until his retirement in 1993, he was a central figure in the development of the Sarah Lawrence music program, introducing generations of students to music
 SCHWIMMER--Dr. Morton Beloved husband of Jacquelyn. Devoted father of George and Katherine and David. Dear brother of Marion Klein and the late Dr. David Schwimmer. Services Sunday 4PM at the Central Synagogue, 55th and Lexington. In lieu of flowers contributions to the Lower East Side Tena
 STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. To our dearest husband and Dad from your five lucky girls. We are forever blessed with the love and life you showered upon us. There wasn't a time you weren't there and always knew we could count on you. Our hearts are broken and the void can never be filled. You 
 VALENTINE--Richard Hewlett, in Pasadena, CA, on December 2, 2003, at age 83. Of counsel at Seward & Kissel and partner at VK Associates. Beloved husband of Nancy W. Valentine. Loving father of Nancy Valentine Avila, Patricia Valentine, Paul Valentine and the late Sandra Valentine, and stepf
 ADELSON--Howard L. The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Howard L. Adelson, a distinguished professor of Medieval Studies and History at City College and the Graduate Center of the City of N
 BARON--Herman Theodore (H.T.B.), age 89, born in Yonkers, NY, passed away on November 29, 2003. He lived and worked in Riverdale, NY for most of his adult life. A stellar husband to his late wife, artist Hannelore (nee Alexander) Baron. Always the most generous and loving father to Julie De
 BROWN--Richard C. (Jeff), 77, died suddenly on December 3 in NYC. Survived by his wife Elizabeth, his sons, J.C., Tony and Duncan, and his brother Robert. Jeff was a young Broadway actor, a film producer, an editor for The New Yorker, Saturday Evening Post, Life and Esquire; and with Pocket
 CAMERON--John W., died November 29, 2003, after a long illness. He attended St. John's College in Maryland and graduated from Olivet. He served in the Navy during World War II and is the author of the novel, ''The Astrologer.'' He was Eastern Bureau Chief and writer of true crime stories fo
 CHERNOW--David. On December 5, 2003. Loved by his wife Shirley, his brother Irving, sister-in-law Jean, nephews, nieces, grandnephews, grandnieces and all his friends. Service Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 DERENE--Martin D. A truly good person, a really good friend, a good and great companion. He will be very much missed. Joan Beinart       
 DEXTER--Robert Grant, 73, died on November 25th, 2003 in Portland, ME while traveling from his home in Summerville Centre, Nova Scotia. The son of Dr. Joseph H. Dexter, longtime professor of physics at City College of New York, and Frances Clifford Tupper, formerly of Nova Scotia and Englew
 ELLENBOGEN -- Robert, Ph.D. On December 1, 2003. Devoted father of Joshua and Benjamin, and father-inlaw of Sarah. Services were held Friday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory may be made to the Alfred Adler Institute of New York, 594 B
 GORIN--Leo. Deceased November 21, 2003, after a long struggle with dramatic illness. In loving memory forever. Devoted brother, uncle and great-uncle. He will be missed greatly. Irene, Mark, Alexander and Destiny Rose       
 KENNEY--Stephen G., known to his friends and family as Stevek, died Thursday, November 27, 2003 in New York City. Stevek is survived by his parents Dorothy & Mike Mitchell of Norwalk, CT, his sister Gabriella Pellinger of Savannah, GA and his sister Kathy Kenney-Baskin of Menlo Park, CA. St
 ROCHE--Robert F. Of New York City, died on November 19th, at New York Hospital. Mr. Roche, 66 years old, recently retired as executive secretary of the Inter-Group Association of New York. He is survived by his family and by hundreds of friends who loved and were helped by him.       
 RUBENSTEIN -- David. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of David Rubenstein, beloved father of Rabbi Jacob Rubenstein. Rabbi Rubenstein provides inspired rabbinic leadership for his congregation, the Westchester Jewish community, and 
 RUBINSTEIN -- Irving. Pres ident of the United Leather Goods Corporation, second career Madison Gallery. Graduate of Columbia School of Business. Founding member of Brae Burn Country Club, Purchase, NY, and member of Hamlet Country Club, Del Ray Beach, FL. Primary charitable institutions: A
 RYAN--John B. III, 74. John's many friends and associates at Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. are saddened by his death on December 3, 2003. John was associated with the firm for almost thirty years. His personality, sense of humor, and distinguished voice will be greatly missed. John's loyalty, dedi
 SPINGARN--Arthur Lee, age 49. Loving husband of Alice Reich and proud father of Ethan and soon to be born daughter. Died December 3, 2003 after a nine year battle with lung cancer. Art was employed as a Wetlands Ecologist with the United States EPA. Art was the son of the late Harry Spingar
 STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. To our dearest husband and Dad from your five lucky girls. We are forever blessed with the love and life you showered upon us. There wasn't a time you weren't there and always knew we could count on you. Our hearts are broken and the void can never be filled. You 
 STEVENS -- Rutherford B., M.D. Died November 27, 2003, at age 92. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Mildred; daughters Rosita Stevens Holsey and Renee Case; grandchildren Mark, Michael and Ria Aiken; and greatgrandchild Nicholas Swekosky. He was a graduate of Howard University Medical
 VALENTINE--Richard Hewlett, in Pasadena, CA, on December 2, 2003, at age 83. Of counsel at Seward & Kissel and partner at VK Associates. Beloved husband of Nancy W. Valentine. Loving father of Nancy Valentine Avila, Patricia Valentine, Paul Valentine and the late Sandra Valentine, and stepf
 WEISBERG--Benjamin D. November 21, 2003, at Milford Hospital, Milford, CT. Born NYC, October 6, 1917. Beloved son of the late Max and Mollie (Brecher). Brother of the late Dr. Harry F. Weisberg and Matilda Boltuch. Survived by his loving wife Lillian McGrath Weisberg of 54 years. Esteemed, 
 Dr. An Tzu Yang, a mechanical engineer whose interpretation of a complex theory for studying motion aided scientists in fields like biomechanics and computer science, died on Nov. 21 in Woodland, Calif. He was 80. He suffered from a number of medical problems, said his wife, Linda T
 Barry Morell, a tenor who sang leading roles for 21 years at the Metropolitan Opera as well as at other major international houses, died on Thursday at his home on Cape Cod. He was 75. The cause was esophageal cancer. In his first year with the Metropolitan Opera, Mr. Morell
 Meyer Steinberg, a philanthropist and real estate developer with interests in a number of shopping centers in the Midwest and Southwest, died on Thursday in New York City. He was 84 and had homes in Manhattan and Hewlett, N.Y., and in Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Steinberg died at Mount Sin
 ADELSON--Howard L. The Officers, Trustees, Advisors and Members of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy note with deep sorrow the death of professor Howard L. Adelson, a beloved officer of the National Committee. A noted scholar, a wise, warm and gentle human being, he will be 
 CHERNOW--David. On December 5, 2003. Loved by his wife Shirley, his brother Irving, sister-in-law Jean, nephews, nieces, grandnephews, grandnieces and all his friends. Service Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. CHERNOW--David, we are deeply saddened by
 DORFMAN--Carl. The Board of Directors, staff and members of the Y express profound sorrow from the passing of our dear friend and Honorary Director, Carl Dorfman. Carl served as a Director and Officer for three decades with dedication and untiring effort. His devotion to his late wife, Libb
 GREEN--Jerome ''Jerry.'' On December 5, 2003. Born October 8, 1937, son of Irving and Fay (Glassberg) Green. Owner of Savoy Manor Catering for over 40 years. Member of Woodlands Community Temple for 32 years. Surviving is his wife Lois Green of Hartsdale, daughter Robin and husband Steve of
 HALPERIN--David. Psychiatrist, group therapist, humanist, poet. Devoted to his family and his profession. A mensch. He will be missed. Hadassah Gurfein, Zvi Lothane, Philip Luloff, Hillel Swiller       
 LACK--Philip J. Died peacefully December 5, after a long illness. Beloved husband and best friend of Tena (nee Talsky). Devoted father of William and Kathie. Cherished grandfather of Tobie Abbajay (Kelley) and great-grandfather of Chloe. Loving brother of the late Daisy, Harold and Herbert.
 MINSKY--Abraham. Passed away peacefully on December 5, 2003. He was a WWII veteran. More importantly, he loved his family. He was the beloved husband, partner and best friend of his adoring wife Mollie. His daughter Arlene, his son Jerry and wife/ daughter-in-law Lynne, as well as his lovin
 RANSOM--David Michael, of Washington, DC, died December 4, 2003, of a heart attack in New York City. Born in St. Louis, MO, in 1938, he was U.S. Ambassador to Bahrain, a career U.S. diplomat and Arabist, a beloved father and successful businessman. He is survived by his wife of 38 years, Ma
 ROLAND--Albert ''Budd.'' On December 7. Graduate of CCNY, member of NYU Dental Class of 1946, past president of Richmond County Dental Society. Loved dentistry, travel, music, theater and swimming 50 laps every morning. Survived by his wife Jean, sister Vera Porcino, brother Jack, his siste
 SPERLING -- Benjamin. Of Boca Raton, FL (formerly of Tenafly), on December 3, 2003. Pre-deceased by his wife Rollie. Father of Sandra Miller of Kinnelon and Marilyn Schonhaut of Hopewell, NJ. Brother of Adele Spitzer. Also three grandchildren. Funeral services were held privately.       
 STEINBERG--Meyer. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York extend their heartfelt condolences to the Steinberg family. Mike was a dedicated Director of the Foundation for many years, always supportive of our causes and vision. He will be deeply missed. Our thoughts an
 VALENTINE--Richard Hewlett, in Pasadena, CA, on December 2, 2003, at age 83. Of counsel at Seward & Kissel and partner at VK Associates. Beloved husband of Nancy W. Valentine. Loving father of Nancy Valentine Avila, Patricia Valentine, Paul Valentine and the late Sandra Valentine, and stepf
 WISHNY--George. December 5, in his 94th year. Loving husband of the late Etta. Beloved father of Marsha Hanlon, Shelley Alkin, and son-in-law Frank Alkin. Adored grandfather of Joshua and Benjamin. Devoted brother of Sylvia Spitzborg and the late Jack Wishny. He was a true New Yorker, an al
 ADELSON--Howard L. The Officers and Members of the Jewish Survivors of Latvia note with deep sorrow the death of Professor Howard L. Adelson, a devoted officer of the organization. A noted scholar and warm human being, he will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt condolences to the Adelson fami
 BREAKSTONE--Joseph. Died Sunday, December 7, 2003. He is survived by his sister Jane. For information, 212-628-1847.       
 CHERNICK -- Arthur. The Board and Staff of the New York Association for New Americans (NYANA) are deeply saddened by the loss of our esteemed Board member and great friend Arthur Chernick. Arthur Chernick was involved in Jewish civic and philanthropic life over a period of 38 years. Arthur 
 DORFMAN--Carl. The residents and staff of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale note with sorrow the passing of Carl Dorfman. During the formative years of the Hebrew Home, Carl lent his wisdom and counsel in helping the Hebrew Home to become the national leader it is today. We will mis
 GERSHENSON -- Milton G. The Brooklyn Law School Community notes with sorrow the loss of a distinguished graduate, esteemed teacher and beloved colleague. In more than a halfcentury of service on the Law School Faculty, he touched the lives of thousands of students. In addition to teaching, 
 HEYMAN--George I. On December 7, 2003 at the age of 97. Cherished husband of the late Bess (nee Weiner). Loving father of Stephen and Adam and father-in-law of Barbara and Joanne. Devoted grandfather of Alexandra, Claudia, Gregory, Douglas and Katherine. Great-grandfather of Pearce, Gioia a
 KENNEY--Stephen G. Stevek made everyone in his life feel like they were his best friend. His limitless devotion to his Stratton Freestyle Team and Allegro Family was truly inspirational. He was our coach, confidante, guardian, enforcer, teacher, organizer, joke teller, a trainer of young mi
 KORMAN--Richard. Devoted and loving husband of Cindi. Adored father of Ashley and Andrew. Beloved son of the late Harry and Kay Korman. Adored brother of Rosalie and the late Sheldon (Joan). KORMAN--Richard. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved
 KRAMER -- Noel. Untimely demise, on December 1, 2003, was felt by many. He is survived by his brother Eugene, niece Rosanne, nephews Michael, Lane and Rod. Noel accomplished much in his lifetime. He was altruistic and charitable. His departing will be perceived by family and friends. Servic
 LACK--Philip J. It is with profound sorrow that the officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of the Fresh Meadow Country Club, record the passing of Philip J. Lack, an esteemed member of our club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Tena, and to the entire family. Mark Clas
 MANDEL--Elliot J., age 54 of Stamford, Connecticut, died on December 3, 2003. Mr. Mandel was a Shareholder in the law firm of Epstein Becker & Green, P.C. in New York. He leaves his devoted wife, Kathryn Mandel and two devoted children, Sarah Mandel and Joshua Mandel, and his mother, Sylvia
 McDERMOTT--Frank A. Jr., 85, of Bronxville, NY, Stuart, FL and Barrington, RI died on December 7, 2003 after a long illness. Mr. McDermott retired from New York Telephone in 1983, after serving 47 years beginning as a messenger and retiring as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Of
 MILLHISER -- Ross. Altria Group, Inc. (formerly Philip Morris Companies Inc.) notes with great sorrow the death of Ross R. Millhiser, the former Vice Chairman of Philip Morris Incorporated and a former director of Philip Morris Companies Inc. An energetic and passionate businessperson with 
 MONTAG--Lillian. The Enterprise Asset Management Family wishes to extend its deepest regrets to our esteemed board member, Richard Montag, and his extended family upon the passing of Lillian Montag. Our thoughts and wishes are with the entire family.       
 RANSOM--David Michael, of Washington, DC, died December 4, 2003, of a heart attack in New York City. Born in St. Louis, MO, in 1938, he was U.S. Ambassador to Bahrain, a career U.S. diplomat and Arabist, a beloved father and successful businessman. He is survived by his wife of 38 years, Ma
 RUBINSTEIN--Irving. We will never forget his dignity, strength, impeccable taste and devotion to Flo. He will always fill our hearts with loving memories. Flo, we love you. Mimi, Sharon, Jayson, Carol, Bob, Micki and Chelsea RUBINSTEIN--Irving. Temple Israel of New Rochelle expresse
 STEINBERG -- Meyer. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff extend our deepest condolences to the family of Meyer Steinberg on his passing. He was a valued benefactor of our organization and a great patron of the arts. Zubin Mehta, Itzhak Perlm
 WITKIN--Richard, 81, of Great Neck, NY, on December 6, 2003. Beloved father of Kenneth & his wife Susan and Debra & her husband Eliot. Devoted grandfather of Stephanie, Katie, Melissa, Maya, Hannah, Cara and David. Loving brother of Ernest and his wife Florence. Brother-inlaw to Barbara. Do
 Lewis M. Allen, the producer of hit Broadway shows that included ''Annie'' and ''Master Class,'' died on Monday in New York. He was 81. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, the writer Jay Presson Allen. Mr. Allen's biggest hit by far was ''Annie,'' which, while it
 ARANOFF -- Louis. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, N.Y., mourns the passing of our beloved member. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, President       
 BLUMENTHAL--Isidor of Far Rockaway, NY, passed away on the eve of his 94th birthday on December 9th, 2003. Devoted husband of 67 years to Ann (Chanchy). Beloved father of Reuben and Beth, Deborah and Rabbi Marvin Bash, David and Barbara, as well as seven grandchildren and nine great-grandch
 CHERNICK--Arthur. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Arthur Chernick, a cherished friend and longtime leader at UJA-Federation and our beneficiary agencies. We extend our deepest sympathies to his entire family. Larry Zicklin, Pres
 COHEN--Rabbi Simon. Beloved brother of Rabbi Morris A. Cohen, Rabbi Harry Cohen and Rabbi Sol Cohen. Devoted son of Rabbi Ben-Zion and Nechama Cohen. Cherished uncle. Interment in Israel. You will always be in our hearts. COHEN--Simon, Rabbi. The West Side Jewish Center/ Congregatio
 DAHAN--Pearl. The staff and partners of Dahan & Nowick LLP extend their deepest sympathies to our senior partner M. Marc Dahan and the entire Dahan family on the passing of his beloved mother, Pearl Dahan. Neil A. Nowick       
 GLENN--William Love, husband, father, grandfather, uncle, dear friend, retired company president and avid sailor, died unexpectedly in the early morning hours of Sunday, December 7, in St. Petersburg, Florida. He was 59. In addition to his wife, Maxine, and son, William, Mr. Glenn is surviv
 GRAHN -- Eric Lawrence Valentine, 72. Returned to his Lord on December 8, 2003 after a long battle with lung disease and cancer. Predeceased earlier this year by his wife, Juliet. Beloved father of Rebecka and Dominick Russo, Lawrence and Christine Grahn, Christina and Gregory. Loving MorFa
 HEYMAN--I. George. On December 7, 2003 at the age of 97. Cherished husband of the late Bess (nee Weiner). Loving father of Stephen and Adam and father-in-law of Barbara and Joanne. Devoted grandfather of Alexandra, Claudia, Gregory, Douglas and Katherine. Great-grandfather of Pearce, Gioia 
 KENNEY--Stephen G. The Stratton Community mourns the loss of Stephen ''Stevek'' Kenney, a longtime member of the Stratton family. Stevek was the inspiration and energy behind our Allegro and Freestyle programs, sharing his passion for the sport of freestyle skiing and enriching the lives of
 LEON--Sol of Beverly Hills, CA formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Died at age 90 on December 5th. Executive Vice President of the William Morris Agency, his beloved 2nd home and family of 65 years. Most cherished husband of the late Lee Leon, dear father of Steven Leon and Susan Leon, devoted fathe
 McDERMOTT--Frank A. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Frank A. McDermott, devoted friend of long standing and past Trustee. A Christian gentleman passionate about the College, he generously shared himself with us and we are stronger for it. We mourn his 
 RADA--George Andrew. Of Manhattan, on December 8, 2003. Devoted husband of Jacqueline, beloved father of George A. Rada, Jr. and Kevin M. Rada, cherished grandfather of George A. Rada III and Sean Thomas Rada. Dear father-in-law of Kathryn. Former Captain in the U.S. Army, George was a real
 SCHWIMMER--Morton, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of our dear friend Morton Schwimmer, M.D., a longtime member of the medical faculty in the Department of Medicine at Beth Israel's Singer Division. To his wife Jacquelyn, his family and all o
 TANNER--Edward Ogden, in New Canaan, CT., December 7, age 77. He is survived by his wife, Shirley, his son Brooks his daughters Sarah Smith and Wendy Bermingham and six grandchildren. Services at the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan, December 12 at 11:30AM. In lieu of flowers, contri
 ZAGER--Daniel. The firm of Yohalem Gillman & Co., L.L.P., are saddened at the loss of our client and dear friend. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his beloved wife Florence, his children Robin, Eric and Marirosa, and his grandchildren Camila, David and Daniel.       
 Paul Simon, a five-term Democratic congressman and two-term senator from Illinois who ran unsuccessfully for his party's presidential nomination in 1988 and retired from politics seven years ago, died on Tuesday in Springfield, Ill. He was 75. His death was announced by Southern Ill
 Ruben Gonzalez, the Cuban pianist who came out of retirement in his late 70's and unexpectedly rose to international fame, died on Monday in Havana. He was 84. He had been suffering from lung and kidney problems, said David Bither, the senior vice president of Nonesuch Records, whic
 ALLEN--Lewis. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the death of Lewis M. Allen. Lew was a dedicated trustee of the Actors' Fund and the many people helped by the fund are eternally grateful for his efforts in improving the lives of all entertainment professionals. Our heartfelt condolences go
 BLUMENTHAL--Isidor. The constituency of the Fashion Institute of Technology notes with sadness the passing of Isidor Blumenthal, president of Orchard Yarn & Thread Co., Inc. and Lion Brand Yarn Company since 1958. Mr. Blumenthal's enthusiasm for and support of FIT will be commemorated by na
 CHERNICK--Arthur. On December 8, 2003. Survived by his sons Charles, Robert and Joseph; sister Henrietta Elson; companion Helene Joffe; daughters-in-law Sharon, Nicole and Caprice; grandchildren Karen, Erica, Adam, Ben, Rachel, Morgan and Danielle. Memorial service Sunday December 14, 2PM a
 ELKUS--Jonathan H. Age 55. Died on December 7, 2003, of a heart attack, in Geneva, Switzerland. Graduate of St Paul's School, Yale and Harvard Business School. He is survived by his twin sister, Peggy of Pittsburgh, PA., his brother, Christopher of Ligonier, PA. and New York and a nephew, J
 GENNARELLI--Valentino J., 94, of Dallas, TX and Yorktown Heights, NY, died December 7, 2003. Born in Casalciprano, Italy, he immigrated to New York in 1929 and married Mary LeChase in 1935. They had two sons, Charles and Louis, respectively from Greenwich, CT and Dallas, TX. In 1948 Gennare
 GLENN--William Love, husband, father, grandfather, uncle, dear friend, retired company president and avid sailor, died unexpectedly in the early morning hours of Sunday, December 7, in St. Petersburg, Florida. He was 59. In addition to his wife, Maxine, and son, William, Mr. Glenn is surviv
 KLEIN--Dr. Edward, DDS, born in New York City and a resident of Bridgeport, WV, died December 9, 2003. Survived by his wife Gladys, three step grandchildren, six step great-grandchildren, a brother and several nieces and nephews. For information contact Burnside Funeral Home, 304-842-1777. 
 LEON--Sol of Beverly Hills, CA formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Died at age 90 on December 5th. Executive Vice President of the William Morris Agency, his beloved 2nd home and family of 65 years. Most cherished husband of the late Lee Leon, dear father of Steven Leon and Susan Leon, devoted fathe
 MADSEN--Niels Bo, 79, formerly of New Canaan, CT. and London, England. Died at his home in Vero Beach, FL. on December 3, 2003. Mr. Madsen came to the US from his native Denmark in 1949. He was an active member of the Danish Resistance during WWII. Establishing himself in NY he embarked upo
 MANDELBAUM -- Richard Marc. Suddenly at age 49, beloved son of Roslyn and Muzzy. Father of Alyssa, Jamie, and Julia, whom he adored. Brother of Don, Cindy and Carol. Nephew of Edith and Henry Everett.       
 McQUILLAN--William L. 85, retired advertising writer and creative director, died September 14, 2003 at his home in Gulfport, MS after a long illness. He is survived by family in NY, MS and MI. He will begreatly missed by colleagues, family and friends.       
 O'GRADY--William John, 83, of 59 Winthrop Rd, Guilford, CT, died Saturday, December 6, 2003 at Middlesex Hospice in Middletown, CT. Mr. O'Grady was born February 3, 1920 in Brooklyn, NY, the son of John and Helen (Barry) O'Grady, originally from County Kilkenny, Ireland. He graduated from S
 PROCTOR -- Waldron Wil liams, age 81 of New Canaan, CT was struck by a school bus on December 8th, 2003. Beloved husband of Helen of 50 years. Loving father of Elizabeth S., Schuyler J., Robert W. and Patricia P. Soyland. He is also survived by their spouses and eight grandchildren, a broth
 RADA--George Andrew. Of Manhattan, on December 8, 2003. Devoted husband of Jacqueline, beloved father of George A. Rada, Jr. and Kevin M. Rada, cherished grandfather of George A. Rada III and Sean Thomas Rada. Dear father-in-law of Kathryn. Former Captain in the U.S. Army, George was a real
 RUBINSTEIN -- Irving. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member Irving Rubinstein. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Florence, and his entire family. Paul Levy, President Monty Davis, Secretary       
 SIMON--Paul. The Institute of International Education Board of Trustees and staff deeply mourn the death of our distinguished Trustee, Senator Paul Simon, who was known for the great depth of his honor and integrity throughout his 40 year career in public service and his leadership in publi
 VELEZ -- Henry. Veteran Broadway stage manager and director died December 9, 2003 after a short illness. Mr. Velez stage managed such Broadway plays as ''Inherit the Wind,'' starring Paul Muni, ''Foxy,'' starring Bert Lahr, ''How Now Dow Jones,'' ''Promises, Promises,'' and ''Sugar,'' produ
 WEISS--Charles J, a life long resident of North Stamford and Greenwich, died Saturday, December 6th, over the Pacific, enroute to Hong Kong. Cause of death is thought to be heart failure. He was 61. Mr. Weiss graduated from the Brunswick School in Greenwich, The Johns Hopkins University in 
 Robert L. Bartley, who led the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal for three decades, championing the supply-side economics of the Reagan era and fashioning a showcase of conservative thought that became required reading for liberals and conservatives alike, died yesterday at Memorial
 Rudolph A. Peterson, who was the chief executive of Bank of America in the 1960's and later ran the United Nations Development Program, died Dec. 2 at his home in Piedmont, Calif., his son-in-law, Stephen Bennett, said yesterday. He was 98. Mr. Peterson spent all of his 45 years in 
 Eugene A. Cafiero, who was president of the Chrysler Corporation in the late 1970's, a period of roller coaster profits and losses for the company, died on Monday in Naples, Fla. He was 77. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said his son-in-law, Stephan Hedbabny.     
 John W. Sidgmore, a leading Internet entrepreneur who became chairman and chief executive of the scandal-ridden WorldCom last year when its founder, Bernard J. Ebbers, was forced to resign, died yesterday of kidney failure, according to a statement issued by his family. He was 52 and lived 
 Joseph R. Daly, who spent 40 of his 43 years in advertising at one of the most influential American agencies, Doyle Dane Bernbach, serving in all the major senior management posts there, died on Saturday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was 85. The cause was complications of pneumoni
 BARTLEY--Robert L., on December 10, 2003, at age 66, of cancer. Beloved husband of Edith Bartley. Loving father of Elizabeth, Susan & Katherine Bartley. Son of Theodore F. and the late Iva Mae Bartley. Brother of Phyllis Sutter and Dale Bartley. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 CHERNICK--Arthur. On December 8, 2003. Survived by his sons Charles, Robert and Joseph; sister Henrietta Elson; companion Helene Joffe; daughters-in-law Sharon, Nicole and Caprice; grandchildren Karen, Erica, Adam, Ben, Rachel, Morgan and Danielle. Memorial service Sunday December 14, 2PM a
 DALY--Joseph R., of Jupiter, FL, age 85. Dear father of Dottie Mull, Suzanne Herbers, Peter, Timothy, Mark, Andrew and Jennifer Daly. Loving brother of Steve, John, Paul Daly, Theresa Siller, Winifred Madigan and Peggy McGee. Also survived by 15 grandchildren, one greatgranddaughter. Memori
 GARDINER--James Bronson II. Sons of the Revolution in the State of New York Inc. marks with great sadness the death on December 11, 2003 of James Bronson Gardiner II, its esteemed member of the Board of Managers, and Life Member. In addition to serving on the Board of Managers at various ti
 GLENN--William Love, husband, father, grandfather, uncle, dear friend, retired company president and avid sailor, died unexpectedly in the early morning hours of Sunday, December 7, in St. Petersburg, Florida. He was 59. In addition to his wife, Maxine, and son, William, Mr. Glenn is surviv
 GOLDBERG--George, 78, of Great Neck and East Moriches, retired publisher of SCAN Newsletter and President of GGX Assoc., on December 10, 2003. Devoted husband of Teddy and beloved father of Jeff of Washington, DC; Robbi of East Moriches; and David and wife Nanci of Port Washington; grandfat
 GOODMAN--Dr. Edmund N. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague, teacher and friend, Dr. Edmund N. Goodman. Dr. Goodman earned his MD and DSc degrees from Columbia University and spent his entire professional career in our department. He was a 
 LIEBMAN--Milton. Medical Writer and former Publisher. Passed away the evening of December 10, 2003 in NYC. Beloved husband of MJ. Father of Jessie and Kate. Grandfather of Jack. He will be greatly missed and always in the hearts of his family, friends and colleagues.       
 MILENBACH -- Burton. The most wonderful man in the world has just died in his sleep. Burton Milenbach, PhD, has been a lifelong resident of NYC and a clinical psychologist all his adult life. He will be terribly missed by his beloved companion of 11 years, Abbe Franklin, as well as by his d
 MILLER--Louis. Age 95. Retired business executive and community leader in Manchester, NH, died of influenza on November 26, 2003 in Scottsdale, AZ, his second home. He was married for 57 years to the late Helene Chase Miller, whom he met when both were English majors at Brown University in 
 RIGLER--Lloyd E. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society are deeply saddened by the loss of Lloyd E. Rigler of Burbank, CA. A generous and steadfast friend, he became a Technion Guardian, achieving the highest level of commitment to the American Technion Society, the 
 SOUTHERLAND -- Arnold. The Trustees, Clergy and staff of The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine mourn the untimely death of Arnold Southerland, longtime Cathedral Security Director. Half of his life was spent at The Cathedral, and he was a treasured member of our family. We extend our 
 TOLCES--David Jay. A retired dentist and avid photographer, died on December 6, 2003. He was 72. Survived by his sister, Bette Lane. A private memorial gathering will be held in January. Condolences can be sent to: www.simpsongaus.com       
 KLAUSNER--Morris. December 12, 1903-December 10, 1968. On what would have been his 100th birthday, we honor the memory of our beloved father, grandfather and great grandfather. Vivienne, Lynn and Jay and children.       
 Ross R. Millhiser, the Philip Morris executive who enlisted a rugged cowboy image and innovative packaging to make Marlboro America's best-selling cigarette, died on Saturday in Richmond, Va. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, Ross Jr., said. Mr. Mil
 Frank P. Schubert, America's last civilian lightkeeper, who for six decades maintained the beacons of New York Harbor for the safe passage of seafarers in a ghostly armada of merchantmen, warships and ocean liners, was found dead on Thursday at the Coney Island lighthouse he had tended sinc
 Heydar Aliyev, a former Soviet secret police general who for 30 years ruled his native Azerbaijan with an iron fist, first as its Communist leader, then as elected president after independence, died yesterday at a clinic in Cleveland, where he had been treated for congestive heart failure s
 Hans Hotter, whose stirring bass-baritone was a cornerstone of the German opera repertory of his generation, died at his home in Grünwald, Germany, near Munich, on Saturday, a few weeks before his 95th birthday. After suffering diabetes-related complications for the last few years,
 Lloyd Eugene Rigler, a California industrialist and investor whose arts philanthropy ranged from music in Los Angeles to ballet in his native Northern Plains, from the New York City Opera to public television, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. His death was annou
 BARON--Irving. Beloved husband of the late Edith. Devoted father of Susan Eber, Andrea Baron and Deborah Ellis and father-in-law of Robert Eber and Robert Schwarz. Adored grandfather of Gabriel and Jordan Eber and Alexander and Ilana Ellis. He inspired us in countless ways. Services Sunday 
 FLEISCHER--Marvin. Devoted son of the late Louis and Bertha (nee Jaffe). Beloved brother of Michael and his wife Dolores and the late Ira Fleischer. Cherished uncle. Chapel services 12 Noon Sunday, Raccuglia & Son Funeral Home, 321-323 Court St., Brooklyn, 718-855-7737.       
 FRESCO--Leon E. April 19, 1915 to December 10, 2003. Son of the late Emanuel and Leah Fresco. Beloved husband to the late Doris. A World War II veteran, he served as Captain in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in the South Pacific. Loving father, grandfather, uncle, brother, and friend to m
 GARDINER--James B. Died unexpectedly December 11, at the age of 96. He is survived by his daughter Cynthia of Tucson, AZ and son James of Burlington, VT and three grandchildren. Mr. Gardiner had a long and distinguished career as an actuary with MetLife and the State of NY retiring at 95, a
 GLENN--William Love, husband, father, grandfather, uncle, dear friend, retired company president and avid sailor, died unexpectedly in the early morning hours of Sunday, December 7, in St. Petersburg, Florida. He was 59. In addition to his wife, Maxine, and son, William, Mr. Glenn is surviv
 HEINBERG -- Seymour. Be loved husband of Beatrice. Devoted father of the late Sue Stetzer and Marshall Heinberg. Loving grandfather of Jenny and Molly Stetzer and Sophie and Simon Heinberg. Services at 12 noon, Sunday, 12/14 at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave. Contributions
 KEARNEY--James F. Dear brother of John, Mary Blume and Richard. Loving father of Alanna and Jim. Cherished friend of Ann Marie Scullion. Graduate of Fordham College (1960) and Fordham Law. Administrative Law Judge of NY State. He leaves behind friends and family who remember his humor and l
 MANDEL -- Evan William ''Bill'', of Rye, NY, on December 11th. A retired executive for Revlon. ''Bill'' is survived by his wife Riva Jean Mandel, children Jon Mandel, Marcy Jo Mandel, and Patricia Anne Mandel, and granddaughter Samantha Mandel, and her mother Patty Lyon. Memorial service Su
 RIGLER -- Lloyd E. The Trustees and staff of the Joyce Theater Foundation note with great sorrow the passing of Lloyd Rigler. Always an inspiring advocate for the arts, he was a valued friend to the Joyce. We were grateful for his visionary support and offer our sincere condolences to Jamie
 SHEMESH--Murray, age 79. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and cherished friend who grew up in Northern New Jersey and who worked in the food industry in various capacities. He was known for his generous spirit, kind heart, love of sports and family. He is survived by his wife, Mildred, 
 SIDGMORE--John. We are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of John Sidgmore. A dear friend, business partner and industry leader who was a source of inspiration, counsel and guidance to us all. He will be sorely missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Randi, his son Michael a
 The Rev. Dr. Carl F. H. Henry, a theologian who helped move evangelical Christianity from the sidelines to a central place in American religion, died on Sunday in Watertown, Wis. He was 90. Dr. Henry's death was announced on Monday by Christianity Today, a magazine he once served as
 The Rev. William J. O'Donnell, a Roman Catholic priest famous in the San Francisco area for having been arrested about 250 times in 30 years in support of often radical causes here and abroad, died on Monday while writing his Sunday homily at St. Joseph the Worker Church here. He was 73.   
 Sol Leon, a talent broker who matched stars and shows with producers and audiences, becoming a backstage power beginning in the early years of television, died on Dec. 5 in Los Angeles, the William Morris Agency announced. A former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., he was 90 and lived in Beverly
 David P. Weikart, who did important studies of early childhood education that are widely cited as evidence that programs like Head Start can have long-term benefits, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Saline, Mich. He was 72. The cause was leukemia, his son James said. Dr. Weikart liv
 Dirk A. Flentrop, a Dutch organ builder who influenced a generation of American counterparts in making pipe organs that play and sound like the classical Baroque instruments of Bach's time, died at his home in Santpoort, the Netherlands, on Nov. 30, his company, Flentrop Orgelbouw, announce
 BARTLEY--Robert L., on December 10, 2003, at age 66, of cancer. Beloved husband of Edith Bartley. Loving father of Elizabeth, Susan & Katherine Bartley. Son of Theodore F. and the late Iva Mae Bartley. Brother of Phyllis Sutter and Dale Bartley. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 BUIRSKI -- Physil ''Fishie.'' Age 95, died December 13, in Hallandale, FL. Born 1908, in Capetown, South Africa. Received an MBA from Columbia University. Businessman in Johannesburg and NYC. Married 65 years to the late Pearl. Ever-present father of Peter and Cathy, devoted grandfather of 
 DUGGAR--George S. of Medford, OR (formerly of Belmont, CA) on November 30, 2003 in his sleep, aged 88. Professor Duggar's early (pre-and post-World War II) research in urban geography, urban renewal planning and forecasting housing demand blossomed into later studies of public finance which
 ELKUS--Jonathan H. Age 55. Died on December 7, 2003, of a heart attack, in Geneva, Switzerland. Graduate of St Paul's School, Yale and Harvard Business School. He is survived by his twin sister, Peggy of Pittsburgh, PA., his brother, Christopher of Ligonier, PA. and New York and a nephew, J
 ELSON -- Bernard. Loving husband of the late Gert. Beloved father of Richard, Tatiana, Robert, Robin, Roger and Sheryl. Adored grandfather of Brooke, Wendy, Sarab, Zach, Avtar, Oliver and Katya, and great-grandfather of Henry. Brother-in-law of Vivian and Gloria. Loving uncle of Barry, Ronn
 ESTIS--Samuel. 84, on December 12, 2003, at home in Hastings - on - Hudson. Sur vived by his loving wife of 56 years Erika, children Denise (Gary) Rosenberg, Kim (Martin) Fradis, Wayne (Diane) Estes. Proud grandfather of Dena, Janna, Adam, Rebecca, Gabriel, Emily and Ana. Retired Lower Manh
 FRESCO--Leon E. April 19, 1915 to December 10, 2003. Son of the late Emanuel and Leah Fresco. Beloved husband to the late Doris. A World War II veteran, he served as Captain in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in the South Pacific. Loving father, grandfather, uncle, brother, and friend to m
 GARDINER--James Bronson II. 1st New York Continental Chapter, Sons of the American Revolution, mourn the passing of Compatriot Gardiner, who died December 11, 2003. He was 95 years young. Jim joined the SAR in 1952, and became President of the New York Chapter, President of the Empire State
 HARFIELD--Henry. A memorial service will be held at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 90th St. and 5th Ave. at 10:30 AM on Thursday, December 18, 2003. Died on September 13, 2003 in New York City at age 89. Beloved father of Susan Harfield Leness Peck. Survived also by grandchildren Amanda L
 HEINBERG -- Seymour. Be loved husband of Beatrice. Devoted father of the late Sue Stetzer and Marshall Heinberg. Loving grandfather of Jenny and Molly Stetzer and Sophie and Simon Heinberg. Services at 12 noon, Sunday, 12/14 at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave. Contributions
 KAISER--Martin. We mourn the passing of our member and send heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Beth Santopolo, President       
 KISLIN--Bernard, 75, on December 2, 2003. Mr. Kislin resided in North Brunswick, NJ. Survived by his wife Iris Klein Kislin, two daughters Marci Heskel (Mitchell) of Short Hills and Nancy Flaum (Richard) of Millburn; sister and brother-in-law Rose and David Turtletaub, brothers Herbert and 
 KLATELL--Jack, D.D.S. December 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Arla. Loving father of Robert and Penny, and David and Nancy. Proud grandfather of Christopher, James, Jenna, Jeremy and Devon. Devoted brother of Bea Fuchs. A renowned dentist and teacher. Memorial service Tuesday, December 16, 1:
 KRAME--Joseph. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Joseph Krame, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Marilyn, and the entire family. Marc Goldberg, President Rabbi Stanley Platek       
 KUBA--Donald L. The firm of Warshaw Burstein Cohen Schlesinger & Kuh has lost a loyal friend and colleague for over 40 years, whose early death we deeply mourn. A scholarly lawyer, a creative problem solver, Don was firm but self-effacing, effective but courteous, and always tenacious. He a
 MILLER--Louis. Age 95. Retired business executive and community leader in Manchester, NH, died of influenza on November 26, 2003 in Scottsdale, AZ, his second home. He was married for 57 years to the late Helene Chase Miller, whom he met when both were English majors at Brown University in 
 MORRISON--Pedro G. 49, of Palm Beach, FL, died suddenly on Thursday, December 11 in Wellington, FL. Mr. Morrison was born in Spain on August 29, 1954. He attended Graham-Eckes Academy in Palm Beach and the University of Miami, where he majored in Business Administration. Mr. Morrison was ac
 NEUROHR -- Dr. Ferdinand died November 5 at home in Homosassa, FL. A board-certified prosthodontist, he practiced in Manhattan for over forty years. Active in many dental organizations, president of several; he felt his greatest honor was presidency of the American Academy of Restorative De
 POPPER--Edwin L. Age 93, died at home on December 12, 2003. He had lived with Alzheimer's disease for many years. He was married to Eleanor D. Popper for 59 years, and is survived by three cousins, James, Will, and Charles Hochman. Ed was the last president of Leo Popper and Sons Glass, a f
 PORTH--William C., of Wilmington, Delaware, formerly of Garden City, New York, on November 26, 2003, at age 89. Born in Brooklyn and a graduate of James Madison High School, Brooklyn College, and St. Lawrence Law School, he was a member of the New York Bar for over 60 years. At various time
 RIGLER--Lloyd E. NACOEJ, the North American Conference on Ethiopian Jewry, deeply mourns the loss of our dear friend, mentor and most generous patron whose loving concern for Ethiopian Jews has helped sustain this ancient Jewish community. The Rigler-Deutsch Feeding Centers in NACOEJ Compou
 SAVIGNE--Jose B., MD. December 8, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Manuela. Cherished father of Tania. Born in Cuba and was a dedicated medical doctor who served his community in Brooklyn for over 50 years. Visitation at Blair-Mazzarella Funeral Home, 723 Coney Island Ave, Brooklyn, Sunday
 SHAW--Joseph. The entire Yeshiva University and its affiliate Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary family mourn the passing of a deeply cherished friend and supporter, a highly respected Jewish communal leader, who with his wife, Sylvia, endowed scholarships at Yeshiva College and the 
 STREIT--Saul S. Jr. Born January 23, 1966, died December 10, 2003. He is the son of Jean M. Streit and the late Justice Saul S. Streit Sr. Saul was a lifelong resident of Manhattan and a graduate of Baruch College. Memorial Mass will be held on Monday, December 15, at the Church of the Holy
 VALKENIER--Robert W. Of NYC and New Milford, CT. Died peacefully at home in NYC, on December 12, 2003, two days before his 79th birthday. An editor retired from the Council on Foreign Relations, Rob is survived by his wife Elizabeth, his daughter Lisa, his brother Paul, and many friends. In
 The Very Rev. Sturgis Lee Riddle, dean emeritus of the American Episcopal Cathedral in Paris, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 94. His death was reported on the cathedral's Web site. A funeral service was held for Dean Riddle on Friday 
 Michael Small, a prolific composer of film and television soundtracks, died on Nov. 25 at New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Lynn. Mr. Small wrote the music for more than 50 films and television show
 BARTLEY--Robert L., on December 10, 2003, at age 66, of cancer. Beloved husband of Edith Bartley. Loving father of Elizabeth, Susan & Katherine Bartley. Son of Theodore F. and the late Iva Mae Bartley. Brother of Phyllis Sutter and Dale Bartley. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 BUIRSKI -- Physil ''Fishie.'' Age 95, died December 13, in Hallandale, FL. Born 1908, in Capetown, South Africa. Received an MBA from Columbia University. Businessman in Johannesburg and NYC. Married 65 years to the late Pearl. Ever-present father of Peter and Cathy, devoted grandfather of 
 DOVAS--Athanaus S. ''Tom.'' Passed peacefully in his sleep at age 80, on December 13, 2003. Beloved father of Nikki, Steven and Yasmin; beloved husband of Guita; brother of Stacy and Anna; beloved grandfather and uncle. Decorated Naval veteran of the Second World War, successful businessman
 DREIFUSS -- Robert Leon. Swiss born, dynamic, entrepreneur. Attended the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania and was the President of R.L. Dreifuss, Inc. Mr. Dreifuss served as a member of the Community Board 8 in NYC. He loved his family which included his three da
 KLATELL--Jack, D.D.S. December 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Arla. Loving father of Robert and Penny, and David and Nancy. Proud grandfather of Christopher, James, Jenna, Jeremy and Devon. Devoted brother of Bea Fuchs. A renowned dentist and teacher. Memorial service Tuesday, December 16, 1:
 KUBA--Donald L. The firm of Warshaw Burstein Cohen Schlesinger & Kuh has lost a loyal friend and colleague for over 40 years, whose early death we deeply mourn. A scholarly lawyer, a creative problem solver, Don was firm but self-effacing, effective but courteous, and always tenacious. He a
 POPPER--Edwin L. Age 93, died at home on December 12, 2003. He had lived with Alzheimer's disease for many years. He was married to Eleanor D. Popper for 59 years, and is survived by three cousins, James, Will, and Charles Hochman. Ed was the last president of Leo Popper and Sons Glass, a f
 ROSEN--Natalie. We are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of the mother of our beloved and esteemed colleague and friend, David Rosen. To David and his brother Mark, and to the entire Rosen family, we extend our sincere condolences. The party for Mrs. Rosen's 95th birthday is only the 
 SCHACHTER--Oscar. Hamilton Fish Professor of International Law and Diplomacy at Columbia University, former Director of United Nations Institute of Training and Research, and Director General Legal Division United Nations. Beloved husband of Muriel Sackler, devoted father of Judith Schachte
 SHAPIRO--Samuel. Age 87. Interment December 15. Private services. Survived by his wife Ellen, sister Nora, brothers David and Herman, children Daniel (Charlayne) and Vivian, ten grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.       
 SOIFER--Samuel. The Raananah Park Community is deeply grieved at the loss of our beloved Shmuel on December 12, at home in Hamilton, Ontario. He was a man of superb judgment, spiritual depth, warmth and humor. Our thoughts and love go out to Ahuva and the entire family.       
 VALKENIER--Robert W. Of NYC and New Milford, CT. Died peacefully at home in NYC, on December 12, 2003, two days before his 79th birthday. An editor retired from the Council on Foreign Relations, Rob is survived by his wife Elizabeth, his daughter Lisa, his brother Paul, and many friends. In
 William V. Roth Jr., a longtime senator who gave his name to a popular tax-sheltered retirement account and a 1981 tax cut, died here on Saturday. He was 82. Mr. Roth, a Republican who represented Delaware for 30 years in the Senate and 4 in the House of Representatives, lived in Wi
 GORDON--Eugene H., 89, attorney, of Portland, OR, formerly of Stamford, CT, New York City and North Branford, CT, died on December 13, 2003. Beloved spouse of Marjorie (nee Grossman) for 65 years; proud and loving father of Barbara GordonLickey (Marvin), Bill Gordon (Katharine Clemens), Dou
 HARFIELD--Henry. A memorial service will be held at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 90th St. and 5th Ave. at 10:30 AM on Thursday, December 18, 2003. Died on September 13, 2003 in New York City at age 89. Beloved father of Susan Harfield Leness Peck. Survived also by grandchildren Amanda L
 HENOCK--Mark. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Mark Henock, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Janet, and the entire family. Marc Goldberg, President Rabbi Stanley Platek       
 KLATELL -- Jack, D.D.S. Dean Ira B. Lamster, Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery, notes with deep sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Jack Klatell, Clinical Professor of Dentistry, on December 11, 2003. He graduated magna cum laude from City College in 1937 whe
 LAURO--James V. Born November 22, 1920. Died December 11, 2003 at his home in Round Top, NY. He retired from his company, Analytical Service Labs, and worked previously at the New York Produce Exchange Labs. He was a member of the Harbour View Club and Downtown Athletic Club. Mr. Lauro serv
 LUBELL--Arthur, on December 14th, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Mary. Loving father of Ruth Tallury, Diane Hochner and Lewis Lubell. Cherished grandfather. Services Tuesday, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. LUBELL--Arthur. The Officers, Governors an
 MARTIN--Gerard, November 17, 1910--December 15, 2003. Beloved father of Jacqueline Stein, loving grandfather of April Stein and Alicia Reiger, proud great-grandfather of Elizabeth, husband of the late Elsa. A gathering to remember Gerard's life, at 3 P.M. Wednesday, Hudson House, Ardsley - 
 MILLER--James. On December 14, 2003. Beloved husband of Arlene. Devoted father of Mark and Barbara, and sonin-law John Palefsky. Loving grandfather of Harrison, Susan and Michael. He was appointed a midshipman at the U.S. Naval Academy by President Harry S. Truman and graduated with the cla
 PODVOLL--Edward Mitchell, MD, 67, of Boulder, CO, died December 10 at his residence. A Sukhavati (Memorial Service) was held on December 13 in Boulder. Memorial contributions may be made to the Edward Podvoll Memorial Fund, c/o Windhorse Guild, 1501 Yarmouth Ave., Boulder, CO. 80304.       
 POPPER--Edwin L. Age 93, died at home on December 12, 2003. He had lived with Alzheimer's disease for many years. He was married to Eleanor D. Popper for 59 years, and is survived by three cousins, James, Will, and Charles Hochman. Ed was the last president of Leo Popper and Sons Glass, a f
 SAFIAN--Murray Z., Ph.D. Much beloved husband of Lenore, proud and loving father of Leslie (Stephen) Kuhn and adoring grandfather of Ally, Peter, Willa and Nicholas. Peacefully at home on December 14, 2003. Master teacher, wise therapist, valued and respected by his professional community; 
 WRIGHT--Martha E. of South Setauket on December 13, 2003. Born February 6, 1919 -in Newfane, Vermont. Married Frederick O. (Bud) Wright, D.V.M. in 1941 until his death in 1987. Married Samuel I. Wright in 1990 until his death in 2000. Board member of the Huntington United Way, president of 
 Dr. Edmund N. Goodman, a prominent New York surgeon who developed a procedure for detecting stomach abnormalities and treated legendary New Yorkers like Gov. W. Averell Harriman and Eleanor Roosevelt, died on Dec. 9 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 95. The cause was cancer, said his daught
 John A. Mulheren Jr., a charismatic Wall Street trader during the 1980's and chief executive of one of the New York Stock Exchange's largest specialist firms, died on Monday at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 54. The cause was seizures that resulted in a heart attack, according to S
 Oscar Schachter, who helped frame the legal underpinnings of the United Nations and taught at Columbia University Law School for the last 28 years, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was complications of heart disease, his fa
 BENENSON--Abram S. Renowned scientist, research doctor, professor and editor of the APHA ''Communicable Diseases in Man'', died peacefully December 15, 2003 at his home in Lenox, MA. He is survived by Regina vA Benenson, his loving wife of 64 years, his children Michael, Thomas, James and S
 KAUFMAN--Charles. August 11, 1910--December 15, 2003. Beloved husband of Blanche. Devoted father of Isabel and Steven. Treasured father-inlaw of Michael and Aviva. Cherished grandfather of Andrew, Sivia, Lauren and Seth. Charlie will be sadly missed but lovingly remembered by all of his fam
 KWITNEY--Paul, Sept. 20, 1928-Dec. 16, 2003, after a long, torturous struggle with Parkinson's. Cherished son of the late Esther and Harry Perach - Kwitney, precious brother of Ziva, devoted uncle of Alisa. Accomplished attorney, Zionist activist, benefactor to many. Survived also by belove
 LUBELL--Arthur, Esq. The entire Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the passing of a cherished and devoted friend of our university and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS), who in his discretion, and in consultation with his clients established sever
 McDERMOTT--Francis X. of Hicksville, LI on December 15, 2003 (WW II Vet, US Army). Beloved husband of Doris for 55 years. Loving father of Joseph (Kathleen), John, Peter (Kathy), Anne (Rich), Patricia (Ray), Bernadette (Peter), Ellen (Michael), Kathleen (Andrew), and the late Mary (John). D
 MULHEREN--John. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of John Mulheren, a cherished friend who was greatly admired for his extraordinary generosity and compassionate concern. John earned enormous respect for his deep devotion to humanita
 NEUROHR -- Dr. Ferdinand died November 5 at home in Homosassa, FL. A board-certified prosthodontist, he practiced in Manhattan for over forty years. Active in many dental organizations, president of several; he felt his greatest honor was presidency of the American Academy of Restorative De
 PERLMAN--Seth. Frances' beloved son, Andy's ''kid'' brother died December 13. His sweetness and beautiful smile will be cherished.       
 David S. Lewis, an aeronautical engineer who took the helm of the ailing General Dynamics Corporation, pushed it to profitability and retired after what was seen as mild official censure by the Navy for cost overruns, died on Monday in Charleston, S.C., his son David said. He was 86.       
 Otto Graham, who led the Cleveland Browns to pro football supremacy in the decade after World War II and became one of the game's greatest quarterbacks, died yesterday at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 82. The cause was an aneurysm of the aorta, his son Duey said. Playi
 HEYER--Martin C., Lt. NYFD retired, died December 15, 2003, age 90. Survived by his wife Anne, four stepchildren, five step grandchildren.       
 KNOPPERS--Antonie T. Died peacefully at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday, December 16 at age 88. Beloved husband of Ria, proud father of a son Bastiaan Knoppers of Amsterdam, Netherlands, and three daughters, Mieke Knoppers Cole of New York, NY, Anneke Woodward of Atlanta, GA, and Els Knopp
 LUBELL--Arthur, Esq. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a cherished member of our extended family. Arthur's contagious warm smile was a reflection of his kindness and concern for his fellow human being. He will be sorely missed and his memory will endure as a lasting blessing. We ext
 MARMOR--Judd, MD. The Trustees, Officers and Members of The American Academy of Psychoanalysis and Dynamic Psychiatry express profound sorrow for the loss of Dr. Judd Marmor, Founding Member and Past-President of the Academy and Past-President of the American Psychiatric Association. Dr. Ma
 MULHEREN--John A. Jr, on December 15, 2003. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee) Baird, loving father of Alexander B. ''Sandy'', Clark A, Timothy K, Wyatt G, Nora K, Dakota L, Harley T, brother Michael W. and sisters Maureen Mulheren, Colleen A. Wood, Patricia M. Skinner and Katherine M. Cabrera.
 POLLOCK -- Eugene D. Passed away December 14, 2003 in Aventura, FL, at age 91. Beloved husband of the late Josephine, loving father of Wendy Pollock, Hillel and Beth Pollock, grandfather of Lara and Marc, uncle of Dennis and June Pollack. Former executive of National United Jewish Appeal, s
 SCHENKEL--James M. of Vero Beach, FL, formerly of Garden City, NY, died on December 16, 2003. Born August 19, 1913, he graduated in 1934 from Colgate University class of 1934 and was a Naval Lieutenant during World War II. He retired in 1978 from Home Life Insurance Company in New York as V
 SOMMERFELT--Amb. Soren Chr. The American/Scandinavian Foundation mourns the passing of Amb. Sommerfelt, longtime Trustee, supporter and friend. We extend our deep condolences to his daughter, Nina. Christian R. Sonne, Chairman Edward P. Gallagher, President       
 Dr. Judd Marmor, a psychiatrist who was influential in having homosexuality removed from the American Psychiatric Association's official list of clinical disorders, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles, his son, Dr. Michael F. Marmor, said. He was 93. In the early 1960's, Dr. Marmor, a ps
 Johnny Cunningham, one of the great Celtic fiddlers of his generation as well as a producer and composer, died on Monday at the apartment of his girlfriend, Trisha McCormick, in New York. He was 46, and had a home in New Bedford, Mass. The cause was a heart attack, Ms. McCormick sai
 BORKER--Wallace Jacob. Of Scarsdale, NY died on December 12, 2003 at the age of 84. He is survived by his wife Bettie, son David, granddaughter Marina, and sister Leonora Kurzweil. We will never forget him. A private service was held. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests donations to the
 BROWNER--Harry M., 96, Associate Professor of Political Science and History at Palm Beach Community College; taught economic-geography in NYC; professional photographer; employed by the post office. Born in Brooklyn of immigrant parents, he quickly became his father's interpreter; his fathe
 DELANO--William A. died peacefully at home in the early hours of December 15th of renal failure. He was 79. Bill was a veteran of World War II, serving in China. He was a graduate of Yale Law School in 1953, which he attended after two years of volunteer service with the American Friends Se
 GUTHRIE--Philip Allen, age 53. We mourn the untimely death of Phil, beloved parent with Patricia Chiono of Katherine, adored brother of Elisabeth and Shannon, cherished son of Thomas and the late Jane Guthrie. Phil was an unfailing source of great humor, compassion, devotion and love to cou
 KNOPPERS--Antonie T. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our good friend, Antonie Knoppers, a Member of the Association since 1992 and an Advisory Director from 1981-1992. Antonie Knoppers was a dedicated, enthusiastic, and generous patron of this house over many years. As a devoted 
 KRAUS--Irving R. Beloved husband of Bebe, father of Douglas, Aileen (Missy) and Matthew, father-in-law of Alice Kraus, Jeffrey Cohn, and Jane Kraus, grandfather of Amy, Jonathan, Grace, Hanna and Mason, on December 17, of progressive supranuclear palsy. A funeral service will be held at Tem
 LOUTSCH--Enrique H., M.D. of Manhattan, died on December 15, 2003, of pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Cynthia Curran, a son, Johannes of Cos Cob, CT, a daughter Karen Gironda of Harrison, NY, and two grandsons, Nicholas and Conrad Gironda. Certified by the American Board of P
 MULHEREN--John A., Jr. A prince among men, John Mulheren's untimely passing is a tragic and sudden loss for many. A visionary of the ''Street,'' I will miss his brilliant mind, but moreover, his large and giving heart. John was devoted not only to many causes, but to his community and lovin
 SPEAR--Paul, MD, on December 16, 2003. Survived by his wife, Belle, children, Susan, Peggy and Michael, and eight grandchildren. Memorial gathering at 2PM, Sunday, January 11, 2004 at Roland Park Place, Baltimore, MD.       
 WHITE--Seymour ''Steve'', 86. Textile designer well known in the garment center. Decorated WWII veteran, storyteller, bridge player, friend, and family man. Survived by the love of his life Estelle, children Jill, Wendy (Ian), grandchildren Lindsay, Josh (Debbie), Rebecca, and brother Sheld
 Robert Lorne Stanfield, a onetime standard-bearer for Canada's conservatives who twice lost elections to become prime minister, died on Tuesday in Ottawa. He was 89. He died in a hospital after a long illness, Lowell Murray, a Canadian senator and longtime friend, told The Associate
 Felix Kaspar, a 5-foot-4 Austrian who won world championships and an Olympic medal in figure skating and dazzled audiences with his jumping, died Dec. 5 in a hospital near his home in Bradenton, Fla. He was 88. The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease, said June Kaspar, his wife o
 Gary Stewart, a singer and writer of hard-driving honky-tonk songs who had a No. 1 country hit in 1975 with ''She's Actin' Single (I'm Drinkin' Doubles),'' was found dead on Tuesday at his home in Fort Pierce, Fla. He was 59. The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the neck,
 John Dreves, a master crystal maker and creator of the classic olive bowl design that Steuben Glass introduced at the 1939 New York World's Fair, died on Nov. 16, the company announced this week. He was 90 and lived in Corning, N.Y. The bowl, one of the many pieces he designed for S
 BIJOU--Joseph E. Of Brooklyn, NY, died on December 19, 2003. He is survived by his beloved wife of 52 years, Sallee, his sons Elie and Leon, his daughters Rachel Bijou, and Luna Zemmol and his daughter-in-law Aura Bijou, and son-in-law Jonathan Zemmol, and five grandchildren. He will be dee
 CREMIN--Daniel, native of Brosna, Co. Kerry, Ireland. Passed away peacefully on December 18, 2003. Survived by his loving wife Johanna and children Mary, Elizabeth, Caroline and William. Loving grandfather of Johanna. Cherished father-in-law of Christopher and Monnel. Beloved brother of Nor
 GUTHRIE--Philip Allen, age 53. We mourn the untimely death of Phil, beloved parent with Patricia Chiono of Katherine, adored brother of Elisabeth and Shannon, cherished son of Thomas and the late Jane Guthrie. Phil was an unfailing source of great humor, compassion, devotion and love to cou
 KRAUS--Irving R. Beloved husband of Bebe, father of Douglas, Aileen (Missy) and Matthew, father-in-law of Alice Kraus, Jeffrey Cohn, and Jane Kraus, grandfather of Amy, Jonathan, Grace, Hanna and Mason, on December 17, of progressive supranuclear palsy. A funeral service will be held at Tem
 MULHEREN--John A., Jr. The Board of Directors of CR&T mourns the death of John A. Mulheren, Jr. He was a friend and long time supporter of the quest for effective treatments for cancer. John's wit and smile made him many fast friends. His big heart and generosity earned the admiration and g
 Harold von Braunhut, who used comic book advertisements to sell whimsical mail-order inventions like Amazing Sea Monkeys, tiny shrimp that pop to life when water is added, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Indian Head, Md. He was 77. His wife, Yolanda, said that he died after a fall bu
 Henry Saglio, who helped make poultry the most popular meat in America when he slashed production costs by breeding a meatier bird that matured quickly and laid more eggs, died on Dec. 13 at a nursing home in Connecticut. He was 92. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, J
 AIKEN--Karl. Age 67, on December 9, 2003 in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Former New York City High School speech teacher. Beloved longtime companion of the late Leah Strassman, devoted father of Emily, cherished step-father of Josh Strassman, dear brother-in-law of Ruth and Fred Beatty. He will 
 COTTON--Harvard A. 93, of Whitestone, NY, on December 19. Deeply mourned by his son Ross, his brother-inlaw and sister-in-law Bill and Betty Ruder and a warm and caring family of nieces, nephews and friends. Harvey was an extraordinary husband to his departed wife, Deborah, an inspiring hig
 COULSTON--Dr. Frederick. 89, of Alamogordo, NM, died Monday, December 15, 2003, in Alamogordo. Dr. Coulston was born December 4, 1914 in New York City to Samuel and Celia Goldstein. He attended Syracuse University where he received his Bachelor's Degree in 1936, his Master's Degree in 1939,
 DAVIS--Caleb W., 85, antiques dealer and furniture restorer, died December 19, 2003, at his home in Wakefield, RI. He is survived by his wife Barbara H. Davis, two daughters and three grandchildren. A May memorial service is planned.       
 GUTHRIE--Philip Allen, age 53. We mourn the untimely death of Phil, beloved parent with Patricia Chiono of Katherine, adored brother of Elisabeth and Shannon, cherished son of Thomas and the late Jane Guthrie. Phil was an unfailing source of great humor, compassion, devotion and love to cou
 JACOBY--Monte H., 72, died Sunday, December 14, 2003, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Born May 23, 1931 in Alton, IL, he was a graduate of DePauw University, in Green Castle, IN. (1953). He married Nancy Jacoby October 16, 1954. After service in The U.S. Army, he worked as an executive for The Olin 
 KARPE--Kenneth Lee ''KK.'' On November 28. Writer, architect, designer, innovator, Magic Mommy founder and loving producer of jazz. Beloved companion Sheba, children Koz, Randi, Wendi and Debi, grandchildren, niece Daniele, nephew Gregory, cousins, dear friends and jazz brethren cherish his
 KARPF--Horace A. Left his loving family at the age of eighty-two on December 19, 2003. He leaves his devoted wife of 57 years, Winifred, his much loved children, Steven & Deb Karpf, Judy De Canio, five grandchildren, Michael, Lisa, Jeffrey, Allison and Adam, and his grieving pet 'Smokey'. R
 LEVINE--Leon H. Our beloved Father, Papa and friend joined his wife of 50 years, Frances, Sunday December 14th. He leaves his daughter Babette and husband Calvin Haddad, his grandchildren Heidi, Dana, Lisa and Maxwell Haddad, Melissa and husband Marc Malaga, and Lee Klosty, two great grandc
 LOWENSTEIN--Julius, on December 17, 2003; born in Germany, October 16, 1914; came to America in 1937; served in the army from 1942 to 1946; owner of Midtown Packing since 1946. Survived by his beautiful wife Ruth of 62 years; two daughters, Marilyn Blumenthal (married to the late Stephen Bl
 NORFOLK--William R. Attorney, age 62, died December 18, 2003, Tucson, AZ. He is survived by wife Marilyn, and daughters Stephanie, Allison, and Meredith. Private services have been held. If desired, memorials may be directed to New York Weill Medical Center, Dept. of Pulmonary Medicine, Eas
 NYIRI--Peter Victor. Suddenly, at age 56. Beloved husband of Betty Gerendasy, son of the late Magda and Joska Nyiri. Peter was born in Budapest, lived in Israel until age 12 when his family came to New York. Peter graduated from Bronx High School of Science, City College and Hebrew Universi
 RIPSTEIN--Dr. Charles Benjamin. Renowned surgeon and educator, and pioneer in cardiac and colon/rectal surgery, died at his home in Florida on December 13, his 90th birthday. Born in Winnipeg, he grew up in Montreal, and received his M.D. from McGill University School of Medicine in 1940. S
 THIERER--Robert, of New York City, on December 14, 2003. He was a well-known interior decorator. He is survived by his sister Joan Boss. Services were held privately.       
 WASHBURN--Abbott M, 88, Eisenhower appointee, Chairman of INTELSAT Conference, FCC Commissioner, General Mills Executive, died peacefully on December 11, 2003 in Washington, DC. He is survived by Wanda, his wife of 40 years, his children, Michael, Dan, and Julia and four grandchildren, Mara
 WIGTON--Ann Hayes. Of Plainfield, NJ, on December 19, 2003. Wife of the late William G. Wigton. Mother of William B. Wigton and his wife, Delozier. Grandmother of Tyler and Andrew. Memorial service at Crescent Ave. Presbyterian Church, Plainfield, on Tuesday, December 23, at 11 am. Memorial
 GRONICH--S. Frederick. February 18, 1916 - June 21, 2003. Six months gone, but forever in our lives. Beloved husband of Raquel M. Gronich of Israel, father of Daphne Gronich, father-inlaw of Paul Nagle and grandfather of Eli CG Nagle of Los Angeles. Hero of World War II and Israeli War of I
 PERACH - KWITNEY -- Harry. Died 3rd candle Hanukkah, 1993--his 98th birthday. Avi Mori Tinatzava. Ziva       
 William A. Delano, the first general counsel of the Peace Corps and an executive secretary of the City Bar Association, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was kidney failure, his daughter, Laura, said. As a young litigation lawyer in 1953, just out
 David W. D. Dickson, the first African-American to head a New Jersey state college or university, died on Dec. 10 in Palm Coast, Fla., his retirement home, his family said. He was 84. Dr. Dickson, a scholar of Renaissance and biblical literature, was president of what is now Montcla
 AIKEN--Karl. Age 67, on December 9, 2003 in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Former New York City High School speech teacher. Beloved longtime companion of the late Leah Strassman, devoted father of Emily, cherished step-father of Josh Strassman, dear brother-in-law of Ruth and Fred Beatty. He will 
 BARRON--John Charles, died on Saturday, December 20, 2003, at INOVA Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, VA, after a short but valiant fight with leukemia. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Eleanor; son, John; daughter, Susan; sister, Katherine Gorbett; and niece, Marie Hubbard. An inur
 COTTON--Harvard A. 93, of Whitestone, NY, on December 19. Deeply mourned by his son Ross, his brother-inlaw and sister-in-law Bill and Betty Ruder and a warm and caring family of nieces, nephews and friends. Harvey was an extraordinary husband to his departed wife, Deborah, an inspiring hig
 DELANO--William A. The Trustees of the St. Mark's Historic Landmark Fund and the advisory board of the Neighborhood Preservation Center express their sadness at the passing of William Delano, husband of its esteemed Chair Emeritus, Georgia Delano. Whether in Chinese seamen's cap, kilt, or b
 HARRIS--Dr. Samuel. On December 21, age 94. Loving father of Lloyd and Averill. Devoted grandfather of Brett, Jamee, London, Jesse and Jonathan, and greatgrandfather of Taylor and Ava. We mourn his death and celebrate his life. He will be missed forever. HARRIS--Samuel B. Pop, you g
 IMBERMAN--Milton, passed away peacefully December 19, 2003. Beloved husband of Hennie. Devoted father of Pauline and husband Marc Baylin. Loving grandfather to Emma and Eli. Also survived by his sister Ruth Taxel and adoring nieces and nephews.       
 NORFOLK--William R. Attorney, age 62, died December 18, 2003, Tucson, AZ. He is survived by wife Marilyn, and daughters Stephanie, Allison, and Meredith. Private services have been held. If desired, memorials may be directed to New York Weill Medical Center, Dept. of Pulmonary Medicine, Eas
 TOLMACH--Samuel. 90, on December 19, 2003. Survived by his wife Dorothy Coleman Tolmach, children Robin Lakoff, Marzy and Joe Bauer, Philip and Mary Ellen Tolmach, grandchildren Andrew Lakoff, Deborah and David Bauer, Dena Klein and Beth Tolmach. Predeceased by his first wife, Beatrice. Sam
 Oleg A. Troyanovsky, the suave voice of successive Soviet leaders and his country's affable representative at the United Nations from 1977 to 1986, died on Sunday, the Russian Foreign Ministry told The Associated Press. He was 84. Mr. Troyanovsky, who was also Moscow's ambassador to
 DELANO -- William. The Board, staff, and artists of Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church mourn the passing of William Delano. Bill was often a vital presence in our audience, and we will continue to celebrate his spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Georgia and his children.       
 HALPERIN -- David. The Mount Sinai Medical Center Department of Psychiatry deeply mourns the loss of Dr. David Halperin, beloved colleague and devoted teacher. Dr. Halperin, an Associate Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, was an important contributor to the department and in particular to ou
 HARRIS--Dr. Samuel. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 JOSEPH--Jim. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a highly respected Jewish communal leader, a long-time friend and champion of Jewish education, who helped to establish a distance learning program for Jewish day schools through YU. Heartfelt condolences to his childr
 MACKAY--Jeremiah, 71, died December 20, 2003 from cancer at his Valley Stream home. He was an advertising sales veteran who opened the Long Island sales office of the New York Times in the 1970's. He is survived by his wife Catherine, their daughter Colleen of Santa Monica, CA, sons Jerry o
 POSILLICO--Joseph D. Jr., on Sunday, December 21, at the age of 64, in his Huntington Bay Home. President of J.D., Posillico, Inc., Mr. Posillico was respected and admired by all in his field as an exceptional leader with a vast knowledge of the construction industry. His independent spirit
 RUSSELL--Thomas W. Jr. ''Tuck'' died peacefully at home in Essex, CT., on December 20, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Mary Ferguson, father of Tom, Jennifer, and Sarah, and step-grandfather of Kari Katzander and Karena Rasser. He graduated from Yale in 1939 and spent most of his business
 SHAPIRO--Albert (Ozzie), of Forest Hills, NY. July 15, 1917 December 18, 2003. He is survived by Gertrude, his beloved wife of 62 years, daughters, Elaine Stimmel and Diane Saatchi and sons-inlaw Allan Stimmel and David Saatchi, grandsons Lee Stimmel (Ilana) and Jonathan Stimmel (Kristine) 
 Aram J. Kevorkian, an American lawyer in Paris whose witty and opinionated newsletter on the spirit of French law served both corporate clients and devoted Francophiles on his mailing list, died Dec. 20 at the American Hospital in Neuilly. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, hi
 Dave Dudley, the pioneer of truck-driving country songs and a former radio D.J. who recorded more than 40 country hits from 1961 to 1980, died on Monday in Danbury, Wis. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his wife Marie told The Associated Press. Mr. Dudley was not the
 Les Tremayne, a honey-voiced leading man of radio's golden age, died on Friday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Joan. Among his radio credits were ''The Thin Man,'' ''The Falcon,'' ''Betty a
 CHURCH--Joseph. December 23, 2003. Beloved husband of Alexandria. Devoted father of Amanda and Joseph. Cherished grandfather of Susannah Jane. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral private. A celebration of his life will be announced at a later date.       
 JOSEPH--Jim. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jim Joseph, a cherished friend and a leader in Jewish education. Working with us to create The Partnership for Excellence in Jewish Education, Jim will long be remembered. We extend o
 RIVES--Reginald W.W. Of Shrewsbury, MA, died December 22. Retired Norton Company Safety Specialist. He leaves two sons and a daughter, ten grandchildren, one great-grandchild. Funeral service Friday December 26 at 10AM in St. Luke's Church, Worcester, MA. Memorial donations may be made to S
 RUSSELL--Thomas W. Jr. The Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Opera Guild mourns the passing of their esteemed Board member, Thomas W. Russell Jr. Tuck joined our Board in 1970 and served for many years with great distinction on our Executive, Audit and Pension Committees and as Chairma
 Sidney A. Rand, a Lutheran elder statesman who served as president of St. Olaf College and as United States ambassador to Norway, died on Dec. 16 in Northfield, Minn. He was 87. His death was announced by St. Olaf College. Dr. Rand, an ordained Lutheran minister, was preside
 Charles R. Grean, a pop composer, arranger and music industry executive for more than 60 years, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Weston, Conn. Mr. Grean was a copyist for the orchestras of Glenn Miller, Artie Shaw and Charli
 Don Lamond, a swing band drummer who was a standout with Woody Herman in the late 1940's, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Orlando. The cause was a malignant brain tumor, said his wife, Terry Lamond, who sang and recorded with his band in the 198
 BELL--John Jewett, II, 84, formerly of Milford, CT died Monday in Vero Beach, FL. He was a veteran of WW II, serving in the US Army 7th Regiment; a graduate of the Englewood School for Boys, the Eagle Brook School, The Governor Dummer Academy and Packard Business School; and had worked for 
 JOSEPH--Jim. The Orthodox Union mourns the demise of Jim Joseph, a thoughtful philanthropist and an admired Jewish leader. We offer our condolences to his family. Harvey Blitz, President Rabbi Tzvi Weinreb, Executive Vice President       
 LUSSA--Raymond. On December 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Hilda. Devoted father of John, Kathi, and Rosa. Cherished grandfather of Raymond, Christopher and Micky. Loving brother of Mary and Jean. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 MYERS--Paul D. Died on December 22, 2003, of Watch Hill, RI and Cincinnati, OH. Husband of the late Mary Anderson Coombe Myers, he is survived by his children, Susan M. Dush of Greenwich, CT and James A. Myers of Charlottesville, VA and three grandchildren.       
 SALOMON--Walter. Congregation Habonim mourns the loss of a pillar of our community, Cantor Walter Salomon. A long-time member of Habonim, Walter brought his beautiful music into the life of our community for more than five decades. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Eva and daugh
 HOGAN--John M. (Jack) 67, Chairman of Wood and Hogan, Inc., 200 Lexington Ave., NY, NY, passed away at home in Austin, TX on Tuesday, December 23, 2003 due to complications of bladder cancer. Mr. Hogan was an active alumnus of Portsmouth Abbey School in RI and a graduate of the University o
 LEEDS--Richard H., 82, of Upper Brookville on December 25. Beloved husband of Nancy B. Leeds, father of Constance Bennett and Douglas Leeds. Grandfather of Lauriston, Corey, William and Victoria. Father-in-law of William and Anki. Private interment. A celebration of his life will be held at
 LUDMERER--Morris, 89, of Lauderhill, FL and Rego Park, NY, on December 24 in Ft. Lauderdale. Born July 22, 1914, Astoria, Queens. Survived by beloved wife and best friend of 62 years, Helen (Strochak) Ludmerer; three adoring children, Steven, Richard, Nancy; cherished grandson Jonah Peppiat
 LUSSA--Raymond. On December 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Hilda. Devoted father of John, Kathi, and Rosa. Cherished grandfather of Raymond, Christopher and Micky. Loving brother of Mary and Jean. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 RUBENSTEIN -- Stanley. A longtime resident of Great Neck, NY., died on Wednesday, December 24, 2003 of ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease). Mr. Rubenstein was a founder and principal of Rubenstein Wolfson & Company, a public relations firm. He was a member and President of the Board of Education; a 
 Robert Ross, a retired advertising executive and author of historical suspense novels, died Tuesday in Hendersonville, N.C., where he had lived for the last 23 years, his family said. He was 85. Mr. Ross had worked for the Leo Burnett Company in Chicago and D'Arcy McManus Masius bef
 BECKER--Stephen. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn on Monday, December 29, 2003 at 12:00 PM. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President 
 CECI--Joseph William. 79, on December 23, 2003. Beloved husband of Virginia. Loving father of Vincent, Christine, Timothy and the late James by his first wife, the late Lynn Ceci. Affectionate step-father of Gary, Greg, Denise and Louis, Jr. Dear brother of Rosemary, Anna and the late Elean
 GOLDBERG--Jack, age 94, on December 24, 2003, in Brooklyn, after a brief illness. Predeceased by his wife Ida (nee Koliner) of 53 years. Loving father of Stephen Ray Goldberg, DDS and Diane Goldberg Tanenbaum (Lux), MD. Loving grandfather of Nathaniel Jason Goldberg, Franklin Bradley Goldbe
 ZUPNICK--Elliot. Died on Thursday, December 25 after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. He is survived by Lillian, his beloved wife of 57 years, his loved and loving children Judith and Henry (Judith), his adored and adoring grandchildren Daniel, Benjamin and Sarah, his brother Sidne
 BERENTSON--John Franklin. On December 19th in New York City. After graduating from Lehigh University, he served in the U.S. Navy and became a successful cable TV executive, but will best be remembered as a selfless husband, father and friend. He was the cherished husband of Lynne Gorman Ber
 BINDER--Raymond J. 85. Beloved husband, devoted uncle. Survived by his wife, Joyce, and nieces, Gale Cohen and Joy Martinez. World War II veteran. Funeral at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave., Tuesday, December 30, 9:0011:30 AM.       
 BLAUSTEIN--Ira, 85, of Westbury, NY and Boca Raton, FL, on December 25. Beloved husband to Helen for 55 years. Incredible father and amazing grandfather. Generous friend to many throughout the world. His ready smile and sense of humor endeared him to all. Funeral service, Sunday, December 2
 CECI--Joseph William. 79, on December 23, 2003. Beloved husband of Virginia. Loving father of Vincent, Christine, Timothy and the late James by his first wife, the late Lynn Ceci. Affectionate step-father of Gary, Greg, Denise and Louis, Jr. Dear brother of Rosemary, Anna and the late Elean
 CHANNING--Aleid Kathleen. Of Stonington, CT and formerly of New York City and Lenox, MA. Passed away on December 21, 2003 at the age of 88. Beloved aunt of Julia Channing Bell and her husband Mark of Marshfield Hills, MA. William E. Channing and his wife Philippine and his daughter and thre
 CHURCH--Joseph. December 23, 2003. Beloved husband of Alexandria. Devoted father of Amanda and Joseph. Cherished grandfather of Susannah Jane. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral private. A celebration of his life will be announced at a later date.       
 CLANCY--Robert E. 76, died Thursday, December 25, 2003 at his residence in Princeton, NJ. Husband of the late Catherine and Barbara. Survived by a daughter, Kerry DeYoung, two sons and daughters-in-law, Brian A. and Susan and Sean E. and Paula, seven grandchildren, and a dear friend Chris D
 GOLDBERG--Jack, age 94, on December 24, 2003, in Brooklyn, after a brief illness. Predeceased by his wife Ida (nee Koliner) of 53 years. Loving father of Stephen Ray Goldberg, DDS and Diane Goldberg Tanenbaum (Lux), MD. Loving grandfather of Nathaniel Jason Goldberg, Franklin Bradley Goldbe
 LEEDS--Richard H., 82, of Upper Brookville on December 25. Beloved husband of Nancy B. Leeds, father of Constance Bennett and Douglas Leeds. Grandfather of Lauriston, Corey, William and Victoria. Father-in-law of William and Anki. Private interment. A celebration of his life will be held at
 LOVE--Freeman Donnellon, M.D. Age 91, surrounded by family, in Danbury, CT. on December 26, 2003. Former resident of Sandy Hook, CT., Brooklyn Heights and Goshen, NY. Devoted and beloved husband of 62 years of Andree Walton. Cherished father of Francis W. Love (Lorrie Barstow), Peter W. Lov
 LUDMERER--Morris, 89, of Lauderhill, FL and Rego Park, NY, on December 24 in Ft. Lauderdale. Born July 22, 1914, Astoria, Queens. Survived by beloved wife and best friend of 62 years, Helen (Strochak) Ludmerer; three adoring children, Steven, Richard, Nancy; cherished grandson Jonah Peppiat
 MINTZ--Thomas F., 39, of New York City, on December 17, 2003. Beloved son of Mary F. Mintz and the late Roger M. Mintz Sr., of Foxboro, MA. Loving brother of Kathy Muncy of Abington, MA; Robert Mintz of Ft. Meyers, FL; Roger Mintz Jr. of New York City, NY; and George Mintz of Franklin, NH. 
 MYERS--Paul D. Died on December 22, 2003, of Watch Hill, RI and Cincinnati, OH. Husband of the late Mary Anderson Coombe Myers, he is survived by his children, Susan M. Dush of Greenwich, CT and James A. Myers of Charlottesville, VA and three grandchildren.       
 SHAFTEL -- Stanley. Prom inent Long Island, NY, architect, passed away on December 26, 2003, at the age of 79. He was born on March 14, 1924, in Brooklyn, NY. After graduating from Brooklyn Tech, he was a pilot in the Naval Air Corps from 1942-1943. With his degree in architecture from Okla
 SMITH--Frank. December 23, 2003. Husband of Monica, father of Nicole, Sophie's Opa. We will love and miss him forever.       
 SPIVAK--William. The members of the Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of East End Hospice and the East End Open Tennis Committee extend heartfelt sympathy to the family of our devoted friend and supporter, Bill Spivak. Our sincere condolences to his family, friends and loved ones. Pr
 SWEDER--William B., D.D.S. On December 26, 2003, age 91. Beloved husband of Edna. Adored father of Gerald and Kenneth. Devoted father-inlaw of Nancy and Gerri. Cherished grandfather of Danielle, Justin, Lauren and Rebecca. Loving great-grandfather of Zachary and Noah. Treassured uncle to ni
 TURYN--Arthur. Born Warsaw, Poland, 1919. Son of Nachman and Esther (nee Sendacz) and brother of Simeon, Sara and Mira, all murdered in the Holocaust. Husband of Charlotte (nee Levitan), 1948-1989. Father of Richard, Emile, Larry and Michael. Lifelong friend of Alexander Reindorf, of Warsaw
 ZUCKERMANN -- Emil C., M.D. On December 26, 2003. Beloved husband of Monika Flider Zuckermann, devoted father of Adrian Zuckerman, loving grandfather of Natalie Aura Zuckerman, beloved husband to the late Aura (nee Bufti) Zuckermann. Funeral will be held on Monday, December 29, 2003, at 11:
 ZUPNICK--Elliot. Died on Thursday, December 25 after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. He is survived by Lillian, his beloved wife of 57 years, his loved and loving children Judith and Henry (Judith), his adored and adoring grandchildren Daniel, Benjamin and Sarah, his brother Sidne
 Alan Bates, the versatile British actor who forged his name on the West End stage in John Osborne's ''Look Back in Anger'' in 1956 and went on to captivate audiences on both sides of the Atlantic in a wide-ranging film, theater and television career, died on Saturday at a hospital in London
 Don Durgin, a former president of NBC Television who led the network's expansion of programming in the late 1960's, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York. Mr. Durgin, a resident of Mill Neck, N.Y. and Manhattan, was 79. The suspected cause was a brain aneurysm, said his 
 Francis Thompson, a filmmaker whose multiscreen documentaries paved the way for larger-than-life Imax movies, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He was 95. The cause was pneumonia, said Bayley Silleck, his friend and colleague. During his 50-year filmmaking 
 Herman Keiser, who achieved one of golf's greatest upsets when he defeated Ben Hogan by a single stroke to win the 1946 Masters, died last Wednesday in suburban Akron, Ohio. He was 89. His death was reported by his daughter, Diane Parker, The Associated Press said. When the 
 BINDER--Raymond J. 85. Beloved husband, devoted uncle. Survived by his wife, Joyce, and nieces, Gale Cohen and Joy Martinez. World War II veteran. Funeral at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave., Tuesday, December 30, 9:0011:30 AM.       
 GORDON -- Arthur J. 85, passed December 23, 2003, in Arizona. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Muriel; children Andy Gordon and Meg Singer; son-in-law Jeff Singer; grandchildren Debbie and Pam Singer; Zena Bagatelle, his loving companion; and brother Jerry Gordon. Arthur was admired 
 NICHOLSON--James J. Of Pelham Manor, NY, and Chatham, MA. Died December 28, 2003, at his home in Pelham. Beloved husband of Margaret (Peggy) (nee Cullen) Nicholson. Cherished father of John C. Nicholson of Wilmington, DE, Louise N. Howe of Bethesda, MD, and Jeanine R. Nicholson of San Franc
 SCHNEIDER--Robert. 74, of Rye Brook, NY, on December 24. Beloved father of Gary Schneider and Linda Plank. Will be greatly missed by sister Lita, brother-in-law Bennett, brother Leonard, son-inlaw Steve, grandsons Christopher and Matthew, and nieces Karen and Diane, all the people at his ba
 WEINBERG--Andrew. A finer, gentler soul never graced the face of this Earth. Andrew was a loving, generous man who lived with integrity, dignity and compassion. He was loving husband to Liz and devoted father to Raquel and Michael. Andrew is in our hearts forever. The Krolls       
 ZUCKERMANN -- Emil C., M.D. On December 26, 2003. Beloved husband of Monika Flider Zuckermann, devoted father of Adrian Zuckerman, loving grandfather of Natalie Aura Zuckerman, beloved husband to the late Aura (nee Bufti) Zuckermann. Funeral will be held on Monday, December 29, 2003, at 11:
 MATORIN--Mervyn. We that loved him so, made him our pattern to live. Your children and grandchildren       
 Earl Hindman, the actor known to millions as the odd neighbor barely seen as he peeks over the backyard fence in the long-running television situation comedy ''Home Improvement,'' died yesterday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. A Stamford resident, he was 61. The cause was lung 
 CHALFIN--Samuel, founder and former president of Invincible IPF furniture in Paterson, New Jersey died December 28th in Boca Raton, Florida. He was 93 years old. He is survived by his wife Rhoda of 62 years in Boca Raton, FL, his children Vicky Monaloy, Ruth Chasolen, Larry Chalfin, and his
 DeLUCA--Nella. Passed away peacefully on December 28, two months short of her 91st birthday, after a courageous battle with cancer. Nella was married to Matthew I. DeLuca, Sr, for 57 years. He passed away November 1993. They had a wonderful life together and leave their daughter Adele and s
 FEILER--Alfred W. Died on December 27, 2003 in Durham, NC at the age of 90. Passionate, intellectual, witty rapporteur and political critic. Ali will be missed by friends and family. Former resident of Berlin, Paris, London, New York and Chapel Hill. Ali is survived by his wife of 68 years,
 GORDON -- Mildred (nee) Kreitman. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Gordon; loving mother of Howard and his wife Judith and Lois Kaufmann; devoted grandmother of Alfred and Erika, Barri and Dan, Alexander, Nicholas; adoring great-grandmother of David, Olivia, Sarah and David; loving sister of
 MILLER--Edwin E. Writer, editor and critic of film, music and theater, 82, died December 29, 2003 in Manhattan. Survived by his son Eric Edwin, and his cousin/mate, Dr. Vera Miller. Husband of the late Lydia Joel. Father of the late Diana.       
 NICHOLSON--James J. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of James J. Nicholson, cherished friend of long-standing, former member of the Board of Trustees and its Chair from 1985 to 1991. Ever the man of wit, warmth and compassion, he stood in the midst of this
 STEIN--Howard. Beloved husband of Helene. Loving father and grandfather. Served in US Army in WWII. Was an investment advisor for forty years. He will be sorely missed by family and friends.       
 STONE--Honorable Joseph on December 29, 2003. Former Manhattan Assistant District Attorney. Beloved husband of Ilene, loving father of Jonathan & the late Erica and father-in-law of Joyce. Cherished grandfather of Lily, & Molly. Services Tuesday, 1 pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterd
 SWEDER--William, DDS. A special man-the enbodiment of brilliance, kindness, warmth, sensitivity and sincerity. We, who called him Uncle Bill, are devastated that his wonderful wife, Aunt Edna, is currently without her soulmate of more than sixty years. That his children, grandchildren, and 
 TING--Chih-Hung, born in Hupei, China on July 12, 1925, died in his home at 78. Formerly a diplomat with the Nationalist Chinese government, resigned in the 1960s. Joined WZW Financial Services, Inc. and became Associate Vice-President. A year later became Regional VicePresident at O-R Secu
 David Bale, a businessman, environmentalist and animal rights activist, died on Tuesday in Santa Monica, Calif., his wife, the feminist author Gloria Steinem, said. He was 62. Ms. Steinem said the cause was primary brain lymphoma, for which Mr. Bale had been hospitalized since July.
 Edwin Leonard Knetzger Jr., the former head of the large multinational insurance brokerage firm Johnson & Higgins, died on Saturday in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 78. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Knetzger spent most of his career with Johnson & Higgins, t
 Gerald Gutierrez, who won two consecutive Tony awards in 1995 and 1996 as best director for ''The Heiress'' and ''A Delicate Balance'' respectively, died suddenly at his home in Brooklyn. He was 53. The time of his death has not been determined. The cause was apparently respiratory 
 John Gregory Dunne, the brashly insightful novelist, journalist, and screenwriter who wrote novels and successful works of nonfiction crammed with pungent dialogue, lavish brutality and vivid glimpses of the Hollywood demimonde, died on Tuesday evening in his Manhattan apartment. He was 71.
 DANTER--Meyer ''Mickey''. 86, of Brooklyn, N.Y., on December 26, 2003. Beloved husband to Natalie for 63 years. Loving father, grandfather and great grandfather. A true friend to so many. Mickey gave to so many, never expecting anything in return. He taught us how to live and how to love. W
 FRIEDMAN--Lee. Born April 19, 1942, his life unpublicized on purpose was the king of make it happen. In a career that launched the era of celebrity marketing in fashion and rock and roll, his inner circle was a mega database of who's who of the famous, the notsofamous and the unbelievably t
 GORDON -- Mildred (nee) Kreitman. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Gordon; loving mother of Howard and his wife Judith and Lois Kaufmann; devoted grandmother of Alfred and Erika, Barri and Dan, Alexander, Nicholas; adoring great-grandmother of David, Olivia, Sarah and David; loving sister of
 GUTIERREZ -- Gerald. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened and mourn the death of our beloved colleague and esteemed Associate Director. Gerry performed theatrical miracles of direction on the Beaumont stage, most recently with his acclaimed production of ''Dinne
 HEFLICH--Harry P., 91, husband of the late Estelle Heflich, passed away December 29, 2003. He leaves two children, Louise Wallace, and husband John, of Key Biscayne, FL, and Herbert Heflich, and wife Marilyn, of Martinsville, NJ, and two grandchildren, Marc and wife Laura, and Bradley. He w
 IDEN--John Holmes. Of Cincinnati, OH, passed suddenly on Christmas Eve 2003. A gifted pianist, John played with many of the ballet world's greatest -- including Dame Alicia Markova, C.B.E., O.B.E, Sir Anton Dolin, Alexander Danilova, Tatiana Grantzeba, Frederick Franklin, Gelsey Kirkland, S
 KLAR--Henry Albert. The President, Board of Trustees and Officers of Long Island University extend their deepest condolences to Trustee Steven Klar and his family on their loss. Our thoughts and prayers are with them during this difficult time. Roger Tilles, Chair, Board of Trustees David S
 LANDERS--Manfred, 99, formerly of Easthampton, NY on Tuesday, December 23, 2003 at his home in Ridgefield, CT. Mr. Landers is survived by two sons, Eric Landers of New Canaan, CT and Jon Landers of Newtown, CT along with four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the Kane Funera
 LAPUE--Maurice. Died at home December 19. Age 96. Survived by his companion of 20 years Betty Rogers and his nieces Lynn Handler, Nancy Goncher and Joane Andre Gil and nephew David Gil. A memorial will be held at the end of January.       
 MASLAND--Richard L., M.D. The Faculty and Staff of The Department of Neurology at Columbia University Medical Center mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and colleague, Dr. Richard L. Masland. Dr. Masland, a former Director of The National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness o
 NICHOLSON--James J. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of James J. Nicholson, cherished friend of long-standing, former member of the Board of Trustees and its Chair from 1985 to 1991. Ever the man of wit, warmth and compassion, he stood in the midst of this
 POSMAN--Jean. Died peacefully on December 29, 2003, at the age of 94. Beloved wife of Hy for 63 years, loving mother of Linda, Jerry and his wife Eva. Devoted grandmother of Ellen, Eric and Kris. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, December 31, at 11AM, at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chap
 PURDY--Thomas L. Jr., at 94, died peacefully at home in Somers, NY on December 22, 2003. He was the sixth generation of his family to be actively involved in community service. He was first president of the North Salem Historical Society, and a WWII Air Force veteran. He had a passion for f
 RIPSTEIN--Charles, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center is saddened by the death of Dr. Charles Ripstein. Dr. Ripstein was the first full time Director of Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center. He was renowned as a cardiac surgeon as well as a general surgeon. He was an excell
 RUDOLPH--Leonard H. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL. announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Leonard H. Rudolph. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Doris and their family. Melvin S. T
 SOSNIAK--William. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, William Sosniak, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 ZABIN -- Frederic Marshall. July 29, 1948 to December 22, 2003. Beloved son of Irving and Esther Zabin of Santa Monica, brother of Lee Barbara Zabin and Carol Ann Zabin, and loving partner of Stephanie Clark. Fred was a talented and devoted jazz bassist, composer, bandleader and teacher. He
 Phillip Y. Goldman, a Silicon Valley engineer and entrepreneur who was a co-founder of the Internet service WebTV and more recently of a company that provides a service to block junk e-mail messages, died at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif., on Dec. 26. He was 39. The cause of de
