 Jim Tuppeny, who coached track at Villanova for 13 years and the University of Penn for another 13 and was the director of the Penn Relays for 18 years, died on Wednesday night at his home in Carroll Park, Pa., five miles from the Villanova campus. He was 75. The cause was heart fai
 Lou (the Toe) Groza, one of football's greatest place-kickers and a superb offensive tackle for the Cleveland Browns teams that dominated two leagues during the emergence of the modern professional game, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Middleburgh Heights, Ohio. He was 76. Gro
 BENJAMIN-Herman A. Died today in West Palm Beach, FL. He was a graduate of Columbia College and Law School and a major in the US Prosecutorial Air Service in WWII. In 1969 he won a major case, National Bellis Hess vs. State of Illinois. He is survived by two daughters, Barbara B. Rosecrance
 DICTEROW-Harold. The Manhattan School of Music offers its deepest sympathy to esteemed faculty member, Glenn Dicterow, on the passing of his beloved father, Harold. We extend our most sincere and heartfelt condolences to Glenn and all the members of the Dicterow family. David A. Rahm, Chair
 GELLER-Fred H. age 72 November 29, 2000. Beloved husband of Maxine Udell Geller. Beloved father of Hillary and Michael Ellowitz, Liz and Laurence Geller. Loving grandfather of Melissa, Jacob, Jessica. Loving brother of Lynda and David Finkelstein, Honey and Arnold Geller, Elaine and Irwin G
 GRODEN-Daniel M. Died at his home Wednesday, November 29 under the loving care of wife Betty (nee Gershon), daughter Elizabeth and son Adam. Dear brother of Ruth, Lyon, Ray, and Miriam (deceased). Loving in-law and uncle. He was blessed with the dearest of friends. Services at the Jewish Ce
 HADDEN-Samuel T. Of Simsbury, Connecticut, died on November 29, 2000.He was 11 years old and had faced innumerable physical challenges with heroism, humor, grace and dignity. Without words he spoke his truth eloquently. He personified the finest elements of the human spirit and inspired oth
 HORNER-Martin McGregor. Of Orient, New York and Riviera Beach, Florida died suddenly at home in Florida on November 25, 2000. He was born February 25, 1924 in Newark, New Jersey and was a graduate of Phillips Academy Andover (1942) and Princeton University (1946). He served as an ensign in 
 IMMERMAN-Isidore. Age 95, died peacefully on November 30, 2000. Loving husband of Evelyn, father of Richard and Michael, and grandfather of Tyler, Morgan and David. He will be missed. Funeral services will be held Sunday, December 3 at 11:30 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad St.,
 JAMES-Richard. October 10,2000. Age 68. Born in Jersey City, NJ to the late Bertha Altman James and the late Benjamin James. Beloved husband of the late Sybil James. Loved by many. He will be missed. A Friend 973-218-9471       
 McGUIRK-Rev. Raymond A. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired parochial vicar of Holy Innocents Church, 279 East 17 St, Brooklyn, on November 29. Reposing in McLaughlin Funeral Home, 9620 3rd Ave, Brooklyn, on Friday, December 1 from 2-5 PM. Mass of Transferral in Holy 
 RIBNER-Richard, M.D. Died on November 29th, 2000. Beloved doctor to thousand of patients in his 50+ year career. Medical Director of Fryer Research Center for over 30 years. Pioneer and leading physician in alternative biomedical nutritional treatment for health problems. Beloved brother of
 RIESER-Allan. Died November 26 in NYC. Husband of the late Deborah Wood Rieser, brother of Charles Rieser, stepbrother of Patra Cogan. He is remembered as a playwright and lyricist, a lifetime member of the Dramatists Guild. A memorial is being planned by longtime friend and director, Don P
 ROSEN-Nathan. On Nov. 30, 2000. Beloved husband of Ansel, loving father of Lorie and Harvey Brice, dear brother of Anne Schwadron, adoring grandfather of Michael, Judi, Christopher and Sarah. ''Poppa'' to Andrew, Matthew, Julia, Lilly & Wilder. Service Friday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76
 SCHWARTZ-David. Died on November 29th at Beth Israel Hospital, Brooklyn, NY. David is survived by a loving family: wife Grace; children Barbara Onish, Steven Schwartz and Sanford Schwartz; grandchildren Russell Onish, Alison Onish, Robert Schwartz, Jonathan Schwartz, Megan Schwartz and Josh
 FRASER-Glen Robert. For a wonderful son who would have been 30 today, his friends and family miss him dearly. You are forever in our hearts. With love, Jim Fraser Family       
 WEINER-Hyman Joseph. Died December 1, 1980. He lives in our hearts forever. Family and Friends       
 Bernard Vorhaus, an American-born film director who made his name in England during the 1930's and who became a victim of the Hollywood blacklist in the 1950's, died on Nov. 23 in London. He was 95. Spurred by the Cinematograph Film Act, passed by Parliament in 1927 to limit imports
 FELDESMAN-Lucille. The Directors and Officers of Sterling Bancorp/Sterling National Bank extend heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Director, Walter Feldesman, on the death of his beloved wife, Lucille. Their love, devotion and friendship was an exemplar to all. Louis J. Cappelli, Chairma
 IMMERMAN-Isidore. Age 95, died peacefully on November 30, 2000. Loving husband of Evelyn, father of Richard and Michael, and grandfather of Tyler, Morgan and David. He will be missed. Funeral services will be held Sunday, December 3 at 11:30 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad St.,
 ROMER-Nathan. Holocaust survivor, died peacefully November 23, 2000 after a short illness. Devoted husband of Mania. Loving father of Sheldon & Esther. Dear fatherin-law of Steven and Meryl. Loving Zayda of Shoshana, Jesse, Jessica and David. Cherished brother-in-law of Joseph, Sophie and J
 SCHWARTZ-David. Died on November 29th at Beth Israel Hospital, Brooklyn, NY. David is survived by a loving family: wife Grace; children Barbara Onish, Steven Schwartz and Sanford Schwartz; grandchildren Russell Onish, Alison Onish, Robert Schwartz, Jonathan Schwartz, Megan Schwartz and Josh
 STOCK-Leslie M. On December 1, 2000. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Loving father of Roger and Elyse. Dear brother of Albert. Cherished grandfather of Rachel, Alexandra, Samuel and Robin. Devoted father-in-law of Steven and Marissa. Service Sunday 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and A
 WEXLER-William A. B'nai B'rith International mourns the death of Dr. William A. Wexler, international president from 1965-1971 in Israel-where he had lived for many years-on November 30. A past chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish American Organizations, member of the Un
 William Barry Furlong, a widely read sports columnist, magazine writer and author, died last Saturday in Silver Spring, Md. He was 73. The cause was complications from leukemia, his family said. Mr. Furlong wrote for The Chicago Daily News and The New York Times Magazine, an
 Jack Hemingway, whose achievements as a conservationist and proficiency as a fisherman were nearly overshadowed by his role as the son of a celebrated father and the father of famous children, died Friday night at Weill Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 77. He suffered com
 James S. Jones, an architect whose passion was following packs of basset hounds on foot in pursuit of elusive hares, died Nov. 13 at a nursing home in Chester, N.J. He was 86. The son of a real estate developer who in the 1920's sold New Yorkers estates in the rolling countryside of
 AVNI-Moshe. On Thursday, November 30, Moshe Avni, age 70, of LaGrangeville, NY, died while visiting his family in Tel Aviv. He is survived by his sister, Lenka Juster, and brother, Zalman Rubinstein, both of Israel; his daughters Ravit Avni-Singer, of New Haven, CT and Michal Avni, of Washi
 BALLAN-Eli. 71 on November 19, 2000 in Boca Raton, FL. Devoted husband, father, grandfather, brother, friend. An exceptional man in every respect. He will be sorely missed.       
 BARCLAY-Henry Anthony. Of Southampton, L.I. suddenly on November 29, 2000. Survived by his mother, Lyda W. Hall(Barclay) & the late Henry Barclay. Brother of Rutgers Barclay of Santa Fe, N.M.; brother-in-law of Stephen Ely of Locust Valley, L.I. Also survived by three nieces and one nephew.
 BUCK-Thomas, Ph.D. Of Bedminster, New Jersey, retired from AT&T Bell Labs and former Adjunct Professor at the University of Pennsylvania on November 28, 2000. Survived by his wife, Mary Jo Haines Buck, son, daughters, sisters and grandchildren. Services were held Friday. Contributions may b
 CASIMIR-Appolos, D.D.S. Age 59, peacefully at his home on Wednesday, November 29, 2000. Resident of Port-au-Prince, Haiti, Brooklyn, NY and Freehold, NJ. Owner of Nostrand and D. Medical Center. Beloved husband of Marie Carmelle Casimir. Devoted father of Marc-Phillipe, Lodys and Michaelle;
 COHEN-Samuel G. It is with great sorrow the family of Samuel G. Cohen of Pleasantville, NY announces his passing on November 22nd, 2000. The beloved husband of Barbara Brafman Cohen. The loving father of Jonathan, Daniel & Steven. Cherished grandfather of Alexander, Bethany and Myles. He wi
 CULLEN-John C. Of Clearwater Florida, a retired Auditor for the New York Times, died Thursday, November 30th, 2000, at his daughter's home in Barryville. He was 101. The son of the late James and Mary Ellen Barron Cullen, he was born October 1, 1899, in New York City. He was the widower of 
 de HAVENON-Andre Victor. 58, on November 20 in New York City. Mr de Havenon, a clinical psychologist, was the son of the late Gaston de Havenon and Carol Brewster of Baltimore. Mr. de Havenon graduated from Yale in 1964 and obtained a Master's Degree from New York University. He lived in Eu
 FRIEDLANDER-Royal. On October 30, 2000, at Northwest Hospital, Seattle. Husband of the late Mary. Survived by sons Bernard and Joel, daughter-in-law, Jill, and grandson, Max. Recepient of the Bronze Star in WWII. Longtime resident of Westchester County. A printer, teacher of printing, volun
 HIRSCHORN-Alan. Loving husband of Susan and father of Stefanie and Gregg; son-in-law of Rita; brother-in-law of Michael. Died on Friday, December 1, 2000. What a wonderful father, friend and cousin who has graced our lives. He will be missed by all who knew him. Love, Aunt Mary Richard, Car
 HUNTER-David. The North Star Fund honors the memory of David Hunter, a champion of justice and democracy. David was the first recipient of the North Star Fund Frederick Douglass Award and was a member of our Advisory Board. We are inspired by his many contributions to progressive philanthro
 KAIMOWITZ-Carl. Passed away November 30, 2000 of Del Ray Beach, formerly Dobbs Ferry, NY. Loving husband of Harriet to whom he has been married for 55 years. Adored father of Diane (Thomas) Kolb of Wellsley, MA and Ellen (Allan) Isbitz of Cambridge, MA. Cherished grandfather of Alan, Dan, M
 LOWE-J. Blake. Distinguished International Tax Lawyer and Counsel to Dino de Laurentiis' Corporations. Born in Jackson, Mississippi on October 25, 1927. Died November 16, 2000 in Los Angeles. He is survived by his daughters Romana and Tanya and granddaughter, Rafaela. For information please
 MEYER-Ira A. On December 1, 2000. Dearly beloved husband of Pearl Meyer. Loving son of Fannie E. Meyer. Brother of Alan Edelman. Brother-in-law of Rhoda Edelman, Fay Meyer, Janis Weissman, and Larry and Blanche Lehman. Cherished uncle of Nana Meyer, Ralph Meyer, Jennie Wright, Jonathan Edel
 REISS-Shlomo. Age 79, on November 15, 2000, after a long illness. Former Vice President of the Society of Flavor Chemists, he was a leader in his profession. His was one of the finest noses in the industry. Devoted husband to Judith. Loving father of Nira, Jacob, Tallia and Michal, and cari
 SAFFAN-Leo D., 78. Of Pompano Beach, FL formerly of Seaford, NY died at his residence on November 29, 2000. Mr. Saffan was born on 92 Allen Street in NYC. Mr. Saffan was the owner & operator of Davina Lingerie and April Apparel. He was also a former board member of the Sephardic Jewish Cent
 SHAKESHAFT-Peter. With profound sorrow, the Berkeley Carroll School records the sudden death on November 29 of our beloved teacher, dean and coach. Peter loved our school ferociously, and he shared his heart of gold generously. A Berkeley Carroll parent and member of the faculty since 1984,
 SILVERSTEIN-Alvin, 83 of Boynton Beach, Fl, formerly of Woodmere, L. I., NY died Wednesday November 22nd at home. He is survived by wife Evelyn, son Bert and wife Debbi Silverstein, daughter Laura and husband Steven Bedford. Grandchildren Adam and Rebecca Silverstein and Emma and Nathaniel 
 BONASORTE-Gary. Friends of this beloved man will gather on Thursday, Dec 7, at 1PM at St. Marks Church In-the-Bowery, 2nd Ave and 10th St, to celebrate his memory. At 8PM the same day his last play ''Big Hearts'' will be performed at Rattlestick Theater, 224 Waverly Pl. All are welcomed.   
 DAVIS-Lawrence S. Of Manhattan. Cherished husband of Betty (nee Kandel). Devoted father of Scott and Vicki. Dear father-in-law of Dr. Jeffrey Gradinger and Alyce Davis. Loving grandfather of Harlan and Carolyn. Beloved brother of Joan Schwartzappel. Services at the Sanctuary of Abraham and 
 FRIEDMAN-Sidney. We join with his wife Rita, his children and grandchildren in mourning the loss of our colleague for over 25 years. We were also priviledged to call him our friend. Deutsch Klagsbrun and Blasband       
 KAIMOWITZ-Carl. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of their esteemed member, Carl Kaimowitz, and extends their sincerest sympathy to his wife Harriett and his beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 KLEIN-Ruben. December 2. Late of Mt. Vernon, NY. Beloved husband of Helen (Kramer). Devoted father of Joan E. Cohen of Newton, MA, and Stephen F. Klein of Yardley, PA. Loving brother of the late Albert Klein and Clare Smithline. Dear grandfather of Seth and Heidi Cohen, Nicole and Alexander
 LOURIA-Lee K. On December 2, at age 74, in Madison, CT. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Christopher (deceased), Leigh, Susan Louria Ruggiero, Tyler, Amanda, Reed and Myles. Brother of Dr. Donald B. Louria and Dana Cless. Grandfather of four. A retired Singer Company labor relat
 McSHERRY-John S. Age 59. An advertising executive and media research expert, died December 1, 2000 in New York City, of cancer. Mr. McSherry was the Senior Partner and Media Research Director of TN Media, a division of True North Communications, Inc. He had over 30 years of advertising expe
 MEYER-Ira A. On December 1, 2000. Dearly beloved husband of Pearl Meyer. Loving son of Fannie E. Meyer. Brother of Alan Edelman. Brother-in-law of Rhoda Edelman, Fay Meyer, Janis Weissman, and Larry and Blanche Lehman. Cherished uncle of Nana Meyer, Ralph Meyer, Jennie Wright, Jonathan Edel
 NOUMAIR-George J. On December 2, 2000, of Forest Hills Gardens, NY, and Deal, NJ. Tax attorney for 44 years. Attorney Tax Court of the United States 1956-1995. Whitman and Ransom (Whitman Breed Abbott and Morgan 1959-1995), partner 1965-1995. Chairman tax department 1968-1995; managing gene
 SCHICK-Arline (nee Korbin). Of Tenafly, NJ. Wife of the late Edward Schick, mother of Robert Karp and his wife, Mary Jane Karp and grandmother of Jennifer, Adrian and Joel Karp; stepmother of John Schick and his wife, Susan Schick, and grandmother of Katie Schick and Stephanie Schick; also 
 SUVALL-Max. 83, passed away on Sunday, December 3, 2000. He will be fondly remembered and dearly missed by all those who knew him. His sense of humor, friendship, loyalty and easy going perspective on life inspired us. He is survived by his children, Michael, Marc and Susan, their spouses a
 WILEY-John R. of New York City and Amstelveen, Holland, died November 26 after a brief illness. He was 89. Mr. Wiley's long career in the air travel industry included service as Director of Aviation for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Upon retirement in 1972, he taught a cour
 WINANT-William Alfred, III. Of New York City on November 28, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Phyllis R. Winant and the late Jean V. Winant. Loving father of Cynthia Ruckgaber Winant of New York City and William Wesley Winant II and his wife Susan of Wayne, PA. Adoring grandfather of Bryce
 WOLF-John S., M.D. Of White Plains, NY. Died December 1, 2000, at the age of 89. He was a physician for 46 years and a Lt. Col., US Army Medical Corps, during World War II. Dr. Wolf was the loving husband of Peggy Wolf for 58 years and the devoted father of Susan (Robert) Post, Barbara (Bob
 Ralph Bates, who fell in love with the idea of Spain as a working-class youth in Britain and went on to write evocative novels about the real Spain in the years before the Spanish Civil War, died on Nov. 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 101. Almost 60 years ago he was considered 
 Dr. Cyril Clarke, a British physician and professor of medicine whose fascination with butterfly wings led him to pursue research that helped end infant deaths from a blood disease caused by incompatible Rh factors, died on Nov. 21 in Hoylake, Cheshire, England. He was 93. As a gene
 BLANK-Bertha. Dr. Peter Gorevic and all in the Division of Rheumatology at Mt. Sinai Medical Center express their deep regret at the passing of Mrs. Bertha Blank, beloved mother of Dr. Howard Blank. All our prayers and best wishes to Dr. Blank and his family during this most difficult time.
 BOHM-Milford Miles. The American Technion Society (ATS) expresses profound sorrow at the passing of Milford Bohm of St. Louis, a charter member of the St. Louis Chapter and a moving force in the ATS for more than 30 years. Mr. Bohm and his wife, Lee, established an exchange program for stud
 CARDOZO-George Hart. Of Westport, CT. March 14, 1920-December 2, 2000. Born in New York City, son of Michael H. and Rosalie Cardozo. Cousin of Supreme Court Justice Benjamin Nathan Cardozo. Graduate of George School and Allegheny College. Served in the Army-Air Corps during WWII. Commercial
 FELDMAN-Robert M. Suddenly, of a heart attack, Sunday, December 3, of Newton, Massachusetts, formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of Nancy (Edman) Feldman. Devoted father of Adam Feldman, M.D. of Boston, MA., and Lisa and her husband Aaron Rosenberg of Manhattan Beach, CA. Loving gran
 JASPER-Julius D., M.D. Suddenly on December 4, 2000. Beloved husband of Lois (nee Guterman), devoted father to Steven and Nancy, Richard and Millie, and Barbara and Stuart Aferiat. Loving grandpa to Robert, Lily, Kyle, Ben, Alex and Corey. Caring brother to Gabriel. Dr. Jasper graduated fro
 KATZ-Neale D. We mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Neale D. Katz. Neale served faithfully as Israel Representative & Director General of the United Israel Appeal from September 1984-1996. Operation Moses, the initial movement of Ethiopian Jews to Israel, was successful, in part, d
 KUPERMAN-Abraham S., MD. Age 66 of Manhattan, died December 4, 2000, in Boston after a short illness. Pulmonologist on the faculty of Albert Einstein College of Medicine, affiliated with Westchester Square Hospital, who had an active clinical practice in the Bronx for 27 years. Born in Cape
 KURMAN-Martin, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joines with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Martin Kurman, M.D., a distinguished member of the medical staff in the D
 LATHROP-Grayson F. Former chairman of the board of Al Paul Lefton Company, Inc., a New York and Philadephia advertising agency, died November 28, 2000 in a New York. He was 83 and lived in Greenwich Village. ''He died after a long illness'', his son Tad said. Mr. Lathrop began his advertisi
 LICKONA-Edward J. Died peacefully on November 29, 2000, at the age of 86. A native of Poughkeepsie, NY, he and his wife spent their retirement years in Port Orange, FL, before moving to McGraw, NY in 1999 to be closer to family. A quiet man of tender heart and wry humor, he will be forever 
 MORRISON-William M. 74. Born Abbington, Pa. With great affection, he will be remembered for adventuring in to many kinds of different worlds, for extreme courage while battling years of cancer and the beautiful quality of making all he came in contact with feel special. May he be as free as
 MURPHY-Reverend Kenneth, Order of Carmelites, unexpectedly on December 3, 2000. Member of The Order of Carmelites and The American Province of St. Elias. Loving son of the late Thomas and Virginia (nee Mackey). Cherished brother of Thomas (deceased) and Patricia Nerad (Patrick). Devoted unc
 ROWER-Howard. Died on November 30 in New York City surrounded by his family. He can be remembered by New Yorkers as the soul behind Club Vinyl. He was early to develop Tribeca from warehouses to what it is today. Howard was the pioneer of organic food distribution. His Infinity Food Co. bla
 SARNOFF-Alan Jan. Of Woodbury, NY on December 3, 2000. Beloved husband of Nancy. Loving and devoted father of Mark and Valerie. Beloved son of Lucille and the late Paul Sarnoff, son-in-law of Victor Serota and the late Vivian Serota. Cherished brother and brother-in-law of Mitchell and Deni
 SCHWARTZ-Harold, D.D.S. Oldest surviving member of Class of 1921 School of Dentistry, Columbia University, died on November 28, 2000. Loving husband of Pauline. Brother-in-law of Gail Gold. Uncle to Richard and Carolyn Gold, Nancy and James Shapiro, Pat and Howard Cohen, Robert and Toby Coh
 SMALLBERG - Seymour. Died peacefully on December 4, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Devoted father of Ralph and Victor. Adored grandfather of Michael, Eric and Kate. We will all miss your warm heart and constant love. Services Wednesday, December 6, 1PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th S
 SMITHEIMER-Aaron. The Chai Club of The Community Synagogue, Port Washington, New York, expresses its deepest sorrow on the passing of its founding President, Aaron Smitheimer. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Louella his wife; Roy, Don and Eileen his children, Karen and Cathy, daughters-
 WIENER-Don, whose business career as a finance and administrative executive spanned a period of over 30 years, died November 30 at home in New York City. With him was Gloria, his wife of 47 years, who was also his ''best friend'', and their cat, Hrothgar. Prior to retirement, he was Directo
 WOLF-Jean. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend their heartfelt sympathy to Cary Wolf, Vice President of the Board of Directors on the passing of his beloved mother Jean Wolf. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. J
 Mario Giacomelli, the Italian photographer perhaps best known for his joyous pictures of young priests reveling in a snowfall, died on Nov. 25 at home in Senigallia, a small town on the shores of the Adriatic Sea, where he had lived all his life and whose farmlands and people were the subje
 BLACK-Edward. Died suddenly on November 30. Age 61. Survived by his wife Texanna, three loving sons Michael (Susan), Nicholas and Chase, five adoring grandsons, two sisters, Marcia Groberg and Susan Greenfield. Burial and services took place in Florida. Eddie, you will be missed.       
 BRONFMAN-Jerry. We mourn the loss of a wonderful, bright, funny, warm friend who we will always remember very fondly. Jerry didn't have a mean bone in his body and was always the quickest to make the best and most creative practical joke. His humor helped us all throughout his illness. God 
 BURSTEIN-Susan. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the mother of Dr. Theobald Reich, distinguished member of our Executive Committee, and extends to him and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 GEMSON-Robert B. Died peacefully at home on December 4, 2000, at age 83. Beloved husband of Miriam (nee Solender), loving father of Constance and Donald, dear father-in-law of Lesley, cherished grandfather of Edward and Maya. Born in NYC, graduated from Boys HS, received a BA from LIU, JD f
 JASPER-Julius D., M.D. Suddenly on December 4, 2000. Beloved husband of Lois (nee Guterman), devoted father to Steven and Nancy, Richard and Millie, and Barbara and Stuart Aferiat. Loving grandpa to Robert, Lily, Kyle, Ben, Alex and Corey. Caring brother to Gabriel. Dr. Jasper graduated fro
 KURMAN-Martin, MD. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital mourn the death of Martin Kurman, MD, a distinguished member of our Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for 25 years. Dr. Kurman was a dedicated and caring physician who exemplified the highest standards o
 MACAULAY-John Paul. Born February 2, 1922 in Manhattan, New York. Died on November 28, 2000 at Good Samaritan Hospital. A graduate of Marietta College in Ohio, John served as an officer of the O.S.S. during World War II. He was a retired corporate executive of Atlantic Richfield, where he s
 MARCUS-Leonard. Of Fort Lee, NJ. On December 5, 2000. Beloved husband of Adele. Devoted father of Peter and John. Dear brotherin-law of Joyce Brawer & Florrie Marcus. Loving grandfather of David, Leo, Andy and Richard. Services will be held at Teaneck Jewish Center, Sterling Place, Teaneck,
 MEHLER-Conrad, M.D. Of New York, NY on December 4, 2000 at the age of 85. Beloved husband of Tuci for 51 years, loving father of Rya and Charles Rosenzweig, and proud grandfather of Jessica and Erica. Resident of Czernowitz, he attended medical school in Bologna before making Aliyah to Isra
 MURPHY-Reverend Kenneth, Order of Carmelites, unexpectedly on December 3, 2000. Member of The Order of Carmelites and The American Province of St. Elias. Loving son of the late Thomas and Virginia (nee Mackey). Cherished brother of Thomas (deceased) and Patricia Nerad (Patrick). Devoted unc
 REID-Dr. Irving W. Beloved father of Eva, brother of Cecil and Vincent. Dr. Reid is mourned also by his many patients and friends. Memorial service at Calvary Episcopal Church, Park Ave South at 21st St, NYC, on Friday, December 8 at 1pm. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Cal
 ROWER-Howard. The MacDougal-Sullivan Garden Association mourns the loss of our friend and neighbor Howard Rower, and conveys deepest sympathy to his wife Mary and sons Sandy and Holton, and their families.       
 RUBENSTEIN-Elaine Freedman. On Dec. 5, 2000 at age 75. Beloved wife of Seth. Devoted mother of Joshua, Ephraim & Micah. Proud grandmother of eight. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave on Wednesday 6-9PM. Funeral service is on Thursday, 11:30 AM. Interment Knollwood Park 
 SUVALL-Max.The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Max Suvall whose family has embraced his legacy of righteous deeds and Jewish community leadership. His son, Marc, is a former chair of our Commission on Jewish Identity and Renewal. Marc's wife, Harriet, a
 TEPPER-Albert. On December 3, 2000. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Loving father of Susan Schuman and Jeffrey. Dear father-in-law of Steven and Andrea. Adoring grandfather of Scott, Michael and Lily. He will be profoundly missed. Service on Thursday, 9:30 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street a
 Bishop George West Barrett, a former leader of the Episcopal Diocese of Rochester, who ordained four women as Episcopal ministers in 1975, before the Episcopal Church had approved ordaining women, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92. The cause was renal fai
 Colin Cowdrey, one of the greatest batsmen in the history of cricket and an important administrator of the sport, died Tuesday at his home in Angmering, West Sussex, England. Cowdrey, who was formally Baron Cowdrey of Tonbridge, died of a heart attack, The Times of London said. He w
 BREITBART-Dr. George Jay, age 81 of Manhattan. Died on December 5, 2000 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital. Dr. Breitbart received his undergraduate degree from NYU, his medical degree from Middlesex University in Massachusetts, and became a member of the Medical Society of the County of NY. 
 BRONFMAN-Dr. Jerard Ian, 42, of Pleasantville, NY died at his residence after a lengthy illness of brain cancer on December 4, 2000. Dr. Bronfman was a Podiatrist and the President of Med One Case Management Services. He was also a member of the Elmwood Country Club in White Plains. Beloved
 DENNEN-Bruce P. Beloved father, died suddenly December 3. A graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy and former Trustee, Mr. Dennen earned a BA/Yale and a MBA/NYU. He served as a Director of The Susan Fund, an organization assisting youth diagnosed with cancer to pursue higher education. Mr. Den
 DORE-Rev. Denis W. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the former parochial vicar of St. Pius X Church, 148-10 249 St, Rosedale, on Dec. 5. Reposing in O'Reilly Funeral Home, 137-40 Brookville Blvd., Rosedale, on Thursday, December 7 from 2-4 & 7-9 PM and Friday, Dec. 8 from 2-4 
 HALPERN-Dick. To a wonderful man, companion and lover of all things. May he decorate the heavens the way he decorated our lives. We will all miss him. Steve, Lynne and Lillian       
 LEAF-Laurence. Age 65, died after a brief illness. Devoted husband of Carol, beloved father of Susan Mazzella, father-in-law of James Mazzella, grandfather of Joseph. Brother of Lester and Avrum. A celebration of his life will be held at Flushing Town Hall, 13735 Northern Boulevard, Friday,
 LEDERER-Howard W. On December 5, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Anne H. Lederer. Loving stepfather of Irma Rendina. Dear grandfather of Alan, Steven, David, Frederick and many great grandchildren. The family is planning a memorial celebration of his life at a future date. Memorial contri
 MARCUS-Leonard. Yeshiva University and its Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology are saddened by the passing of a dear friend, beloved husband of Adele. An eminent entrepreneur and highly respected leader of the Jewish community, he was a founding member of the FGS Board of Governors and-wi
 McCRAY-Porter. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and members of its International Council are deeply saddened by the passing of Porter McCray, at age 92, founding director of the Museum's International Program and an honorary member of the International Council. During Port
 ROTHFIELD-Harris. We mourn the loss of our long time friend, Hall. Our heartfelt condolences to all members of his family. Jack & Vera Rosenhaft Simon, Esther, Amy & Vivian Trakinski       
 SAMUELS-Edward M. Died on December 5, at age 87. Beloved husband of Sylvia, loving father of Debra and Dan O'Connor, proud grandfather of Daniel. Dear brother-in-law of Jesse and Eve Friedman. A man of sweet humor, fortitude and unfailing devotion to his family.       
 SCARPATI-Anthony (Don Anthony). On December 4, 2000 after a long illness. Loving husband of Gloria. Dear father of Nancy and Joseph & brother of Nancy, Helen and Anna, grandfather of Josh and Ari and many nieces and nephews. He was a successful singer, performing mostly in the 1950's and 60
 SOUCY-Donald G. On December 5, 2000, passed at his residence in Glen Oaks Queens at the age of 82. He was the founder and Principal of Don Soucy Photo Association in New York City, NY. Beloved husband of the late Josephine Brennan Soucy. Loving father of Ali, Donna and Michele. Cherished gr
 TANZ-Alfred L., 94, member of Abraham Lincoln Brigade, one of the first American volunteers in Spanish Civil War, died November 29. In WWII he was attached to OSS and parachuted into France before D-Day. Founding member of National Lawyers Guild. Survived by his wife Freda, in El Cerrito, C
 TYSON-Dr. Alan. Preeminent Beethoven and Mozart scholar, psychoanalyst, formerly Senior Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford, CBE, FBA, on November 10, aged 74 in England, after a long illness. He is mourned by his many friends on both sides of the Atlantic and by his associates and students
 WIETFELDT-Fred Eberhardt, Jr., 66, of Dataw Island, SC, died Thursday in Washington, DC. Funeral services were held on Tuesday in Beaufort, SC. Surviving are his wife, Barbara Wietfeldt of Dataw Island; two sons, Fred Wietfeldt III, of Washington, DC, and Peter Wietfeldt of New Canaan, CT; 
 Rabbi Irving Koslowe, the Jewish chaplain at Sing Sing for 49 years who in 1953 counseled and administered last rites to the convicted spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a monthlong illness. He was 80 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. The chap
 Dr. Victor Clarence Vaughan III, a physician, educator and for many years the co-editor of a textbook for generations of fledgling doctors, died on Nov. 30 at Stanford University Hospital. He was 81 and lived in Palo Alto and Carmel Valley, Calif. The cause was complications after a
 CARR-Robert S., 57, of Stamford, CT, an executive of Citigroup for 19 years, passed away suddenly on December 5. Beloved husband and best friend of Joan. Loving and devoted son of Elsie Peterson Carr and Harry F. Carr of Wilmington, DE. Brother of the late Thomas Carr. Bob was an exceptiona
 ECKERT-William J. December 6, 2000. Husband of Mimi, father of Jeffrey and Joseph and stepfather of Christina Ryan. Memorial service Saturday, December 9, 2000, 5 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions in his memory may be made to the NYU Medical Center T
 GREER-John K. Died December 5, 2000. Mr. Greer was a U.S. Olympian in two sports, field hockey and fron tennis. He participated in six Olympic Games, and four Pan American. He worked for IBM until retiring in 1998. Husband of Ethel Lewis Taylor Greer, father of W. Kirk Greer, John T. Greer,
 KLEMPERER - Werner. We mourn the great loss of our dear friend and fellow Player. A long standing member of our Board of Directors and former Vice President of our Club, Werner was a passionate advocate for his beliefs and vision for the Club. A consummate actor and man of the arts, Werner 
 KOSLOWE-Irving, Rabbi. With deep sadness, the Westchester Jewish Center mourns the passing of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus, Dr. Irving Koslowe. Having established our synagogue as a vital center of Jewish life, he continued to inspire us with his love of Torah and his dedication to the Jewish
 MALLORY-Clifford Day, Jr. The Trustees and Staff of Mystic Seaport, The Museum of America and the Sea, are deeply saddened by the passing of Clifford Mallory. Cliff served the Museum during virtually his entire adult life, becoming a Trustee in 1940 and continually serving until his death o
 MCCRAY-Porter A. The trustees, staff, fellows, and extended family of the Asian Cultural Council are deeply saddened by the loss of Porter McCray, who for so many years was such an extraordinary colleague, mentor, and friend. Porter was a cultural advisor to members of several generations o
 REID-Irving W., D.D.S. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, fellow Player and member of our Board of Directors. An accomplished dentist, he was also a man of great culture and a stalwart advocate for music and the arts. Evenings with him in The Grill were glorious events. We will miss him 
 SALZMAN-Hal A. 93 of New York City and Miami Beach, Fl died on December 6, 2000 in Miami Beach. Mr. Salzman was a graduate of New York University. He was the owner of the Hal A. Salzman Public Relations and Advertising Firm. He and his company handled the public relations of many famous mov
 SCHWARTZ-Stanley. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague, Stanley Schwartz. For almost 30 years, he helped nurture the growth of our Medical Center. His wisdom, warmth and caring spirit will be sorely missed by a
 Rabbi Irving Koslowe, the Jewish chaplain at Sing Sing for 49 years, who in 1953 counseled the convicted spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and led them in their final prayers, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a monthlong illness. He was 80 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.        
 Rayner S. Unwin, a second-generation publisher who at a very early age recognized the value of an obscure manuscript called ''The Hobbit,'' died on Nov. 23 in a hospice in Berkhamsted, England. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said his son, Merlin Unwin, who is also a publisher.    
 Werner Klemperer, an Emmy Award-winning actor in television, film and theater whose role as the bumbling Nazi Col. Wilhelm Klink on ''Hogan's Heroes'' dominated an eclectic career, died on Wednesday at his home in New York. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said John A. Anderson, his
 H. C. Artmann, an author, poet and leader among Austria's avant-garde, died on Monday at his home in the Josefstadt quarter of Vienna. He was 79. Rebellious not only in a literary sense, he landed in a penal battalion in World War II and then in an American prisoner-of-war camp, whe
 Jim Lansing, an all-American end at Fordham University and a former varsity and club football coach there, died in his sleep last Saturday night at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81. In 1940, when Fordham was a national football power, Lansing helped it to an 8-1 record and a
 John Liscio, who wrote and published The Liscio Report, a financial newsletter, died on Nov. 29 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in Upper Montclair, N.J. The cause was liver and kidney failure related to hepatitis C, said his wife, Frances. Mr. Lisci
 Representative Julian C. Dixon of California, a senior member of the Congressional Black Caucus and the ranking Democrat on the House Select Committee on Intelligence, died today. He was 66. Mr. Dixon, from Los Angeles, died in a hospital there, and House colleagues said the cause w
 Mark Tucker, a professor, musician and jazz scholar who specialized in Duke Ellington, died on Wednesday at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 46. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Carol Oja, who said he was a nonsmoker. Mr. Tucker edited ''The Duke Ellington Reade
 COMART-Martin. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of their esteemed member, Martin Comart, and extends their sincerest sympathy to his wife Barbara and his beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 JACOBSON-Marvin, December 8. Beloved husband of Audrey. Father of Mark, Robert and Lisa Leibel. Dedicated grandfather of Daniel and Molly. Brother of Norman. He will always be remembered as the loving, caring person he was. Donations to The Robert Jacobson Memorial Fund at Temple Beth Abrah
 KLEMPERER - Werner. The Board and staff of the New York Chamber Symphony mourn the passing of its devoted board member and musical conscience. His attendance at rehearsals was often critical, for his extraordinary love of music was coupled with a critical ear. Our condolences go out to his 
 KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. From the beginning-our spiritual leader offering wisdom and understanding. We learned from you, laughed with you, shared with you, were a family with you. You are very special to each of us and an integral part of our lives. We offer our love and our deepest sympathy t
 SCHNEIDER-Peter. Of Scarsdale, NY and Waquoit, MA on December 7, 2000 in his 88th year following a life of accomplishment; first in his class at St. John's Law School; first of 30,000 on the list for appointment to the NYC Police Department ''Super-Class'' of 1940; and first in the hearts o
 SCHWARTZ-Stanley, of Lawrence, NY, and Boca Raton, Fla. On December 7, 2000. He was a longtime executive of Friendship Dairies, an avid golfer, and dedicated philanthropist, serving on the Board of Directors of Temple Beth-El of Long Beach, the Peninsula Counseling Center, and the Long Beac
 WACHSTOCK-David. The Board of The Metropolitan Institute for Training in Psychoanalytical Psychotherapy is saddened by the untimely death of David Wachstock, candidate, representative and fellowship holder. We extend condolences to his family.       
 Richard E. LeBlond Jr., who left an academic career as a professor of sociology to became an executive in the performing arts and served for 12 years as the San Francisco Ballet's president, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said Larr
 ANDERSON IMBERT-Enrique, distinguished Argentine author and scholar, died in Buenos Aires, on December 6, 2000. Born February 12, 1910 in Cordoba, Arg., he immigrated to the US in 1947 as a result of the Peron regime with his wife, Margarita (Margot), and their two children. Prolific author
 BUCHBINDER-Murray W., MD. On December 8, 2000. Dear husband of Ruth. Loving father of Alice and David Siegel, Ellen and Alvin Berman, Charles and Ligaya Buchbinder. Dear grandfather of Andrew Siegel and Deb Ahrens, Jonathan Siegel and fiancee Sheri Meister, Lana and Aaron Buchbinder; retire
 COMART-Martin. Of Delray Beach, FL (formerly of Scarsdale) passed away December 8. Loving husband of Barbara to whom he has been married 48 years. Adored father of Jack, Kim, Morgan and Coy. Cherished grandfather of nine. Beloved brother of Roy. Gutterman Warheit Memorial Chapel, Boca Raton
 GLICKMAN-Paul M. Most beloved husband of Rita. Loving, devoted and proud father of Marc, Barry and his wife, Tammy. Adoring grandfather of Taylor, Justin and Haley, the lights of his life, and Jake, who was as his own grandchild. Brother of Harvey. Graduate of Princeton University, Class of
 GORMAN-Jack. The Three Arrows Cooperative Society mourns the loss of Jack Gorman, gentle, generous, beloved founding member. Memories of his intense and tireless efforts on behalf of our community will always be cherished. We extend condolences to his daughters Deborah, Susan and Judith, so
 HEIMLICH-David. Who left us too soon: his loving wife Stacy; his adoring daughter Mariel; his mother of memory Regina; his late father Bob; his sister Linda; brothers Mark and Steven; his extended family and his friends. We leave him to eternal memory. Memorial service. No flowers. Schwartz
 HUMES-Carl Schmidlapp. Born September 17, 1952, of Lattingtown, NY, died on December 8, 2000. Mr. Humes was the son of lawyer and former Ambassador of The United States to Austria, John Portner Humes, Sr., who died in 1985 and Doctor Jean Schmidlapp Humes, who died September, 2000. Mr. Hume
 JACOBSON-Marvin, December 8. Beloved husband of Audrey. Father of Mark, Robert and Lisa Leibel. Dedicated grandfather of Daniel and Molly. Brother of Norman. He will always be remembered as the loving, caring person he was. Donations to The Robert Jacobson Memorial Fund at Temple Beth Abrah
 JORDAN-Ernest. Departed December 3. Husband of Georgine L. Jordan, and loving father of George L. and Robert D. Grandfather of Dr. Elizabeth Jordan and Lt. John D. Jordan, Victoria Lockett and Charles Andrew Jordan, and great-grandfather of three. He was senior landscape architect with Robe
 MARSICANO-Michael L., 82. Of Boca Raton, FL. Passed away on November 30, 2000. He worked at the New York Times for 14 years and 9 months as a Linotypist. He is survived by his loving wife of 60 years, Virginia, and son Mike and his wife Karen of Durango, CO.       
 SCHECHTER-Stanley. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stanley Schechter, a dear friend of the Jewish community. Mr. Schechter expressed a deep concern for Jewish and humanitarian causes through his generous support of our Diamond, J
 SCHNEIDER-Peter. Of Scarsdale, NY and Waquoit, MA on December 7, 2000 in his 88th year following a life of accomplishment; first in his class at St. John's Law School; first of 30,000 on the list for appointment to the NYC Police Department ''Super-Class'' of 1940; and first in the hearts o
 SCHWARTZ-Stanley, of Lawrence, NY, and Boca Raton, Fla. On December 7, 2000. He was a longtime executive of Friendship Dairies, an avid golfer, and dedicated philanthropist, serving on the Board of Directors of Temple Beth-El of Long Beach, the Peninsula Counseling Center, and the Long Beac
 SHAINE-Herman J. Of Clifton, New Jersey. Beloved husband of the late Rhoda Friedman Shaine. Devoted father of sons Dr. Bruce and Lewis Shaine and daughter Susan Shaine Kaye. Dear grandfather of Rachel and Ilana Kaye and loving brother of sister Rhoda (Bobby) Shaine. Died November 30, 2000 a
 STARR-Ogden Parrish, 88, of Bernardsville, NJ and Mill Reef, Antigua, WI, died at home in Bernardsville on December 3, 2000. Husband of the late Patricia Morrill Starr. Father of Patricia Starr Jones of New Canaan, CT, Ogden P. Starr Jr. of New York City and Michael M. Starr of Antigua, WI.
 VELOTTA-Thomas A. Mr. Velotta passed away November 30 at the age of 89 in Portland, Oregon and is survived by his daughter Virginia Velotta Bell of Portland, his son Thomas, Jr. of Brooklyn, his stepson Rick Dufay of Los Angeles, and his sister Helen and brother Nunzio of Manhattan. Born in
 Porter A. McCray, for many years an indispensable figure in the councils of the Museum of Modern Art and an effective player in the international museum scene, died on Dec. 1 in Hightstown, N.J. He was 92. Mr. McCray was vital to the goodwill with which American achievement in high 
 Rupert C. Barneby, a self-taught botanist who described and named 1,160 plant species new to science, died Tuesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for Aged in the Bronx. He was 89. Mr. Barneby was curator emeritus of the New York Botanical Garden's Institute of Systematic Botany, an
 Clifford Day Mallory Jr., a former trustee, president and chairman of the Mystic Seaport outdoor museum in Mystic, Conn., died Thursday at his home in Stonington, Conn. He was 84. During his tenure the seaport became recognized as the nation's pre-eminent maritime museum. His father
 Less than a year after becoming the spiritual leader of Long Island's 1.4 million Roman Catholics, Bishop James Thomas McHugh, an anti-abortion leader, died yesterday. He was 68. Bishop McHugh, the head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre, died of liver and gallbladder
 COCHRAN-Thomas P. 86, of Erie, PA and formerly of NYC, died December 7, 2000. Preceded in death by brothers Paul B., Joseph L., Col. Phillip G. and John M. Survived by many nieces and nephews. Served as an associate producer for Jack Paar with the Tonight Show and later on the David Frost S
 FRANCHOT-Nicholas V. V. III. December 9, in St. Louis Hospital following heart surgery. He is survived by his devoted wife Anne, daughters Christy James and Lida F., and three grandchildren, all of St. Louis; also sister Constance Tenney of Locust Valley, NY, and brother Douglas W. Franchot
 HOFFMAN-Joseph. Age 99. Joined his departed wife, Ida, on December 6. He will be lovingly remembered by his children and their spouses, Lester and Phyliss Hoffman, Donald Hoffman, Vivian and John Anderson, by his grandchildren, Jeffrey and Marc Hoffman, Fred and Nina Anderson, Jane (nee And
 HUMES-Carl Schmidlapp. Born September 17, 1952, of Lattingtown, NY, died on December 8, 2000. Mr. Humes was the son of lawyer and former Ambassador of The United States to Austria, John Portner Humes, Sr., who died in 1985 and Doctor Jean Schmidlapp Humes, who died September, 2000. Mr. Hume
 JORDAN-Ernest. Departed December 3. Husband of Georgine L. Jordan, and loving father of George L. and Robert D. Grandfather of Dr. Elizabeth Jordan and Lt. John D. Jordan, Victoria Lockett and Charles Andrew Jordan, and great-grandfather of three. He was senior landscape architect with Robe
 KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. Beth El Synagogue of New Rochelle mourns the passing of an esteemed Rabbi, leader of Westchester Jewry and good friend. Heartfelt condolences to the family and to all who were privileged to be touched by his leadership and compassion. Melvin N. Sirner, Rabbi Russell Fa
 LEVY-Jack. December 9, 2000. We will forever cherish all the wonderful times. Your laughter, sense of humor and loving ways will be with us always. How blessed we were to have you, Poppa. Your loving grandchildren Lisa and Jason Cohen LEVY-Jack. December 9, 2000. Thank you for being
 THON-William E., 94, noted artist, died at his home in Port Clyde, ME, Wednesday after a brief illness. Born in New York City, August 8, 1906, Mr. Thon was a World War II veteran. He has resided in Port Clyde since the 1940's. For several years, Mr. Thon worked with Consolidated Edison Elec
 WACHSTOCK - David, D.Psy. Caregiver, colleague and friend. The distinguished Coordinator of the Martin Buber Conference 2000. Our condolences to his family. Prof. Murice Friedman Dr. Max Rosenbaum Martin J. Warmbrand The Martin Buber Forum       
 WERNICK-Dr. Scot, O.D. Died at Calvary Hospital on Saturday, December 9, 2000. He was 46 years old. He is survived by his wife Wendy, daughter Carrie, son Gabe, mother and stepfather Celeste and Al Lederman, sister Stephanie Kleinman, and nephew Matthew Kleinman. For further information, pl
 Ruben Klein, a prominent real estate lawyer in the Bronx and Yonkers, died on Dec. 2 at a nursing home in Wayland, Mass. He was 91 and had been a longtime resident of Mount Vernon, N.Y. During most of his career, Mr. Klein managed and owned real estate properties. He was president o
 Vlado Gotovac, a leading dissident in Communist Yugoslavia and a powerful voice for democracy in the independent Croatia of the authoritarian Franjo Tudjman, died on Dec. 7 in Italy after a long illness. His death at age 70 from liver cancer may have been related to a hepatitis B in
 Less than a year after becoming the spiritual leader of Long Island's 1.4 million Roman Catholics, Bishop James Thomas McHugh, an anti-abortion leader, died Sunday at his residence in Rockville Centre. He was 68. Bishop McHugh, the head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Cen
 Marvin Leath, a conservative Democrat with an interest in military affairs who served six terms as a congressman from Central Texas, died on Friday at a hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 69 and lived in McLean, Va. He had suffered a heart attack at his home, said his son, Thomas.   
 AHRENS-Dr. Edward H. ''Peter'' Jr., formerly of Bronxville, NY, on December 9, 2000. Memorial service will be announced at a later date. Donations to either the Mountaintop Arboreteum, Main Street, Tannersville, NY 12485, or Jansen Memorial Hospice, 69 Main Street, Tuckahoe, NY 10707.      
 BARNEBY-Rupert C. The Board and Staff of The New York Botanical Gardens are deeply saddened by the loss of their colleague, Rupert C. Barneby. Rupert was a distinguished scholar, an inspiring mentor and an enormous contributor to the botanical world. We shall miss his wit, kindness, and ins
 DOFF-Alfred (Fred). Survived by his wife, Elayne, and daughter, Jodi. Literacy volunteer at the Nassau County Jail for over 10 years. Graveside funeral services today 10:30 A.M. at The New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY.       
 KOHTIO-August G., MD. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary notes with sorrow the passing of a well respected member of its medical staff. Affiliated with the hospital as an Ophthalmologist and Ophthalmic Pathologist since 1958, Dr. Kohtio was a stalwart supporter of the Infirmary and the Opht
 LEVY-Jack. December 9, 2000. Thank you for being the dearest, sweetest, most devoted, wonderful father. You will be with me every day. Be at peace with my mother Joyce, your wife of 60 years. Your loving daughter, Donna Cohen LEVY-Jack. Our thoughts and prayers are with Jason, Lisa,
 LIEBOWITZ-Jack (Jacob) S. Of Old Westbury, L.I. and New York City. Died on December 11, 2000 at the age of 100. He was the adored and adoring husband of Shirley. They thank God for the 42 years of beautiful life together and hope the memories will be sustaining. His wonderful wife, Rose, di
 LOWENTHAL-Jesse. On Dec. 11, 2000. Jesse taught English at Stuyvesant High School for over forty-five years. Beloved husband of Carmen (nee Herrera). Also survived by his nephews Addison Durland and family, Roddy Chuk and family, and the family of the late Steven Chuk. Also survived by Regi
 SCHECHTER-Stanley. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member and distinguished member of the Board of Governors, Stanley Schechter and extend to his bereaved wife, Betty and the members of his family our sincere co
 SIRULNICK-Dr. Ralph. Age 93. Died on December 2nd in Boca Raton, FL. His sons, Sid and Leon, four grandchildren, 2 great-grandchildren and two sisters have lost a uniquely courageous, intellectually inquisitive, funny and loving leader of our family. And he voted correctly! Formerly practic
 SLADE-Bernard. Survived by his beloved wife Bunny, loving sons Bill & Bob, and devoted sister Lila. Proud grandfather of Jonathan, Gregory and Rebecca. On behalf of his entire family, business associates and his multitude of friends, heartfelt sympathy and condolences are extended on Bernie
 STRAUSS-Harriet. The Members and our entire personnel express our heartfelt condolences to our esteemed counsel, Arthur Strauss and his family on the passing of his mother, a particularly sad event in adding to his sorrow following the passing of his father. Herbert Rubin Herzfeld & Rubin, 
 Eldon Elder, a scenic designer and theatrical consultant who designed the New York Shakespeare Festival's Delacorte Theater in Central Park, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said John P. Engel, a friend. During his 5
 Jack S. Liebowitz, the comic-book publisher whose business acumen helped turn Superman, the creation of two teenage cartoonists, into the most recognizable superhero in the world, died on Monday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 100 and had homes in Old Westbury, N.Y., and Manhattan. Mr. L
 AHRENS-Dr. Edward H. ''Peter'' Jr., formerly of Bronxville, NY, on December 9, 2000. Memorial service will be announced at a later date. Donations to either the Mountaintop Arboreteum, Main Street, Tannersville, NY 12485, or Jansen Memorial Hospice, 69 Main Street, Tuckahoe, NY 10707. AHREN
 BARNEBY-Rupert C. The Board and Staff of The New York Botanical Gardens are deeply saddened by the loss of their colleague, Rupert C. Barneby. Rupert was a distinguished scholar, an inspiring mentor and an enormous contributor to the botanical world. We shall miss his wit, kindness, and ins
 BELL-David Joseph. Loved by all who knew him. He will be lovingly remembered by Arline, his wife of 50 years, by his children and their spouses, Roberta and Daniel BellKligler, Evan and Barbara Bell, Cynthia and Eric Bell-Kamen, Marilyn and Jeffrey Klein, his grandchildren Eitan, Talia, Nat
 BERKMAN-Alice. The Board and staff of the Mosholu Montefiore Community Center extend our sincere condolences to our Vice President Andrew Berkman, his sister Debbie, brother Barry and their families on the passing of their mother and grandmother Alice. Robin Grenell, President Donald Bluest
 DABNEY-Stephen F. Of Smithtown, L.I., in NYC, Dec. 10, 2000. Survived by his brother, sister and several nieces & nephews. Services will be private. Memorial gifts may be sent to the Phippsburg Land Trust, P.O. Box 123, Phippsburg, ME 04562.       
 DOFF-Alfred (Fred). Survived by his wife, Elayne, and daughter, Jodi. Literacy volunteer at the Nassau County Jail for over 10 years.       
 DOWNING-Dr. Edward F., neurological surgeon of Savannah, Georgia, died on December 10, 2000. A loyal alumnus and friend of the Neurological Institute of New York, Columbia University, he was revered in his community and respected nationally as an elegant and gifted neurosurgeon. Our sympath
 HECHT-Irvin Sulo, 93. on December 11, 2000. Born and raised in New York City where he was an educator for 45 years. Teacher in several schools. Principal, PS 24, Berriman JHS 64, first principal Andries Hudde JHS 240, last principal Girls HS, William Cullen Bryant HS and first principal FDR
 KEENAN-Thomas F. The Officers, staff and members of the Newspaper Guild of New York mourn the passing of Tom Keenan, who served as a champion of working people during his many years of involvement in our Union. In addition to working as a Local Representative, Tom served seven terms as Guil
 KOBLER-John. Died December 11, 2000 in New York City, age 90. Beloved husband of Rita Stein Kobler. Loving father of Jay Kobler, Lynn Hannon, Karen Reiser and Andrea Bagg. Grandfather of Lisa, James, Jennifer and Adam. Great grandfather of Caitlin and Samuel. Journalist and author of ''The 
 KOHTIO-August G., MD The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary notes with sorrow the passing of a well respected member of its medical staff. Affiliated with the hospital as an Ophthalmologist and Ophthalmic Pathologist since 1958, Dr. Kohtio was a stalwart supporter of the Infirmary and the Ophth
 LEVY-Jack. December 9, 2000. Thank you for being the dearest, sweetest, most devoted, wonderful father. You will be with me every day. Be at peace with my mother Joyce, your wife of 60 years. Your loving daughter, Donna Cohen LEVY-Jack. Our thoughts and prayers are with Jason, Lisa, Donna a
 LIEBOWITZ-Jack (Jacob) S. Of Old Westbury, L.I. and New York City. Died on December 11, 2000 at the age of 100. He was the adored and adoring husband of Shirley. They thank God for the 42 years of beautiful life together and hope the memories will be sustaining. His wonderful wife, Rose, di
 LOWENTHAL-Jesse. On Dec. 11, 2000. Jesse taught English at Stuyvesant High School for over forty-five years. Beloved husband of Carmen (nee Herrera). Also survived by his nephews Addison Durland and family, Roddy Chuk and family, and the family of the late Steven Chuk. Also survived by Regi
 PISANO-Ronald G. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Heckscher Museum of Art are deeply saddened at the loss of our longtime friend, supporter, and colleague, Ronald G. Pisano. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. The art world has lost a brilliant scholar, author,
 SCHECHTER-Stanley. He lived a life filled with enormous love for his family and friends, boundless energy for community causes, and incredible accomplishments in business. Beloved husband of Betty, devoted father of Roberta and Joel, loving father-in-law of Kim and Jeff, and adoring grandfa
 SIRULNICK-Dr. Ralph. Age 93. Died on December 2nd in Boca Raton, FL. His sons, Sid and Leon, four grandchildren, 2 great-grandchildren and two sisters have lost a uniquely courageous, intellectually inquisitive, funny and loving leader of our family. And he voted correctly! Formerly practic
 SLADE-Bernard. Survived by his beloved wife Bunny, loving sons Bill & Bob, and devoted sister Lila. Proud grandfather of Jonathan, Gregory and Rebecca. Cherished father-in-law of Ellie and Anita. On behalf of his entire family, business associates and his multitude of friends, heartfelt sym
 SOLL-Maxwell. The Faculty of the NYU (Medical Center) Psychoanalytic Institute and the members of The Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourn the untimely passing in mid November of Maxwell Soll, M.D., our esteemed colleague. After graduating from the institute in 1972, and moving to D
 STRAUSS-Harriet. The Members and our entire personnel express our heartfelt condolences to our esteemed counsel, Arthur Strauss and his family on the passing of his mother, a particularly sad event in adding to his sorrow following the passing of his father. Herbert Rubin Herzfeld & Rubin, 
 WOHL-Irving. On Dec. 12, 2000 at age 88. Father of Gary and Harriet and father-in-law of Elizabeth Wohl and Jonathan Goldstein. Grandfather of James & Johanna Goldstein. A gentle soul, kind heart, quick wit and fiesty spirit. We will miss him. Rest in peace with your dear Renee. Services ar
 Thomas M. Keenan, who for 14 years was chairman of the New York Times unit of the Newspaper Guild, died yesterday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 60 and lived in Oakland, N.J. The cause was colon cancer, said Barry F. Lipton, the president of the Newspaper Guild of New 
 Dr. Melvin B. Gottlieb, who led an expansion of America's search for fusion energy as the director of a Princeton laboratory in the 1960's and 1970's while promoting international cooperation in scientific research, died on Dec. 1, in Haverford, Pa. He was 83 and lived in Haverford on the o
 ABRAHAMS-Maurice. Of New City, N.Y. Died December 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Sandy. Loving and devoted father of Seth and Felicia, father-in-law to Yosef Emuna and Sari, dear son of Edythe and Lewis (deceased) and brother of Robert and Jonathan, loving uncle and great uncle. In his memory 
 BELL-David. The West End Synagogue Community mourns the loss of this sweet man of quiet intelligence and grace. We extend our warmest sympathies to his wife Arline and their children and grandchildren. Rabbi Avi Winokur, Rabbi Yael Ridberg, President Marcia Weller       
 BLOCK-Irvin. On December 12, 2000 at the age of 83. He was deeply loved by his wife of 52 years, Doris, and his children, Jessica, Amy, Rachel and Mark. He was adored by his grandchildren, Charlotte, Nadine, Leah and Nolan. He will be missed by his many friends and extended family. Irv was 
 BRINKHOUS-Dr. Kenneth Merle. The National Hemophilia Foundation is saddened to announce the loss of the illustrious researcher, Dr. Kenneth Brinkhous. His commitment to improving the lives of people with bleeding disorders led to advanced uderstanding and treatment of hemophilia. We are ins
 CLEARY-Malachy F. On behalf of the Saint David's community, we celebrate with pride the life of Malachy Cleary who served the school for 31 years with dedication and integrity. He was patriarchal, full of life, and scholarly. Mr. Cleary will be remembered fondly by generations of Saint Davi
 D'ACUNTO-Vincent. The firm of Buchman & O'Brien wishes to express their deepest condolences to the family of Vincent D'Acunto. The wine and liquor industry has lost a good friend. Vincent will be missed by all that knew him. Buchman & O'Brien, LLP       
 DICKSON-Donald P. Of Pomfret Center, CT. Died of a heart attack on December 12, 2000. He was a member of the class of ''49'' Princeton University. After 77 good and happy years of life and 53-1/2 years of a sensational marriage. Survived by wife and lover Georganna; by sons, David, Peter, J
 DOVEL-Kenneth. The staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. and the Lincoln Center Festival expresses to Alicia Daniels and the family of Kenneth Dovel, her husband, its deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. A classical singer, Kenn had numerous musical affiliation
 GLASSER-Jack. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed founding member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Miriam, his children Ian, Rita and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Bernard Dienstag, Cantor Norton D. Shar
 HEUSER-Dr. Leon J. age 85 on December 8, 2000 at home in Robbinsville, NJ. Princeton University graduate 1936, Marburg University in Munich, Germany, PhD organic chemistry 1940. Inventor of sixteen U.S. patents and their corresponding foreign patents. Predeceased by his wife, Josephine V. H
 LIEBOWITZ-Jack. The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jack Liebowitz, whose life embodied the world of our values and the compassion of our mission. As the comic-book publisher who turned Superman and Batman into household names, Mr. Liebowitz was a super
 O'DONNELL-Timothy G. Age 57 died Wednesday, December 13, 2000 at The Valley Hospital, Ridgewood. Born in Cincinnati, Ohio he lived in Wyckoff before moving to Park Ridge seven years ago. Mr. O'Donnell was a News Correspondent for ABC Radio News, NY, NY for thirty-three years. He was a membe
 SCHECHTER-Stanley. The Board of Directors of the Jewelry Industry Chapter of American ORT deeply mourn the passing of its dear friend and valued supporter. He was a founder of the Chapter and was a dedicated advocate for the Jewish people, children and education. We extend our heartfelt con
 TRAU-Charles. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary are saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Antwerp, Belgium, Jewish community, beloved husband of Toni, and father of Dr. Rene Trau. He is the brother of Rabbi Solomon Trau, Board tre
 VERNICK-Samuel, 95. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL. A strong man with a heart of pure gold. Survived by his beloved wife Miriam, four sons Irving, Shelly, Marty and Bob, their spouses, eight grandchildren and six great grandchildren. May his memory be for a blessing. Irving Vernick       
 WEISS-Richard Leon, wonderful, unique, will be missed by his wife, Shirley Samberg; his son, David; his daughter, Laura; his nephew, Stephen, and his many friends.       
 WHITEHEAD-Edward R., Jr., 88, of West Allenhurst, NJ died Dec. 12, 2000. He was the sixth oldest and 60 year member of the NY Stock Exchange. He graduated Horace Mann Prep School & was a 1935 graduate of Brown University. He was a member of Sigma Chi and an award-winnng athlete. Surviving a
 Willard Nixon, a right-handed pitcher for the Boston Red Sox in the 1950's who dominated the powerful Yankees in an otherwise unremarkable career, died Sunday at a hospital in Rome, Ga. He was 72. He had Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Pitching for the Red Sox from 195
 George Montgomery, a Westerner to the core, who went from prizefighter to stuntman to cowboy star before turning his energies to sculpture, furniture-making and painting, died on Tuesday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84. The rugged, soft-spoken actor was also well know
 The Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, a black nationalist who rose to prominence championing the downfall of Rhodesia's white-minority government and then fell from official favor for denouncing the ruling party he helped to install in what is now Zimbabwe, died on Tuesday. Mr. Sithole, 80, 
 BANG-Frank J. Age 92, died peacefully on December 2, 2000. He lived in Grandview and Shelter Island, New York. He was a founding partner of Marboro Books, the largest mail order business of its era. A gardener, conservationist and sailor, he sailed his boat until age 91. ''Uncle Bud'' was b
 BERTRAND-Charles Barrett, died December 13, 2000, formerly of Bedford, NY. He is survived by his wife, Linda Odenbach Bertrand; daughters, Cara (John) Niles, Dana (Paul) Bennett, Alexandra (Russell) Gaenzle; son, Charles H. Bertrand; mother, Marion Bertrand; predeceased by his father, John 
 FRUEHLING-George. Born Fort Madison, Iowa, died November 7, at home in NYC. He is survived by his sister Doris Stigall of Fort Madison, one niece and four nephews. He was predeceased by his companion Joseph Pinto. Donations may be made to the Guild for Exceptional Children, 260 68 Street, B
 OPPENHEIM-Justin Sable, age 77. Died peacefully on December 14, 2000. Devoted husband of Joyce. Adored father of Janet Wexler, Judith Darrah and Jeffrey. Cherished grandfather of Abigail and Jill Wexler; Samuel, Gabrielle and Julius Oppenheim. Caring brother of Mona. Services 10 AM Sunday, 
 SCHECHTER-Stanley. Longtime member of Jewelry and Watch Industry Executive Committee. Recipient Humanitarian Award. Stanley's dedication to NCCJ's battle against bias and bigotry has been an inspiration. We will miss Stanley and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Mort Weisenfeld, Bo
 Thomas Babe, the author of ''Kid Champion,'' ''A Prayer for My Daughter'' and other plays, and one of Joseph Papp's most prolific resident playwrights at the New York Shakespeare Festival, died on Dec. 6 in a hospice in Stamford, Conn. He was 59 and lived in Darien, Conn. The cause 
 Dr. Edward H. Ahrens Jr., who showed that saturated and unsaturated fats in the diet had opposite effects on blood cholesterol levels, died Dec. 9 at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Hightstown, N.J. For several decades, Dr. Ahrens, known as Pet
 John Kobler, a writer whose early days on the crime beat resounded in an enduring biography of Al Capone, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 90. He was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and was a 1931 graduate of Williams College. He worked for various news organizations as a reporter be
 Moses Abramovitz , a former president of the American Economic Association and a leading authority on the causes of growth and business cycles, died Dec. 1 at Stanford University Hospital. He was 88. The cause was complications after he was admitted to the hospital with a gastroente
 Oliver William Wolters, a professor of Southeast Asian history at Cornell University who did pioneering work on the ancient Malay kingdom of Srivijaya, died on Dec. 5 in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 85. Professor Wolters, who retired in 1984 after holding for 10 years the Goldwin Smith chair
 CLATWORTHY-H. William, Jr. M.D. Internationally acclaimed pediatric surgeon died Monday, December 11, 2000 at his home in Columbus, OH. Dr. Clatworthy attended Stanford University and Harvard Medical School. He is survived by his wife, Nancy and his children, including Susan Clatworthy Grin
 DONOHUE-Francis T., Major General USAR (Retired) and Assistant District Attorney of Westchester County for 37 years. Mr. Donohue, age 63, died at his home on December 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Virginia (Stiles), devoted father of Valerie Donohue, Suzanne Speichinger and her husband Eric,
 HALLOW-Gregory. On December 14. Beloved husband of Aileen. Loving father of Margot Usdan and the late Mitchell Hallow. Dear father-in-law of William Usdan and Deborah Sabin. Devoted grandfather of Leah & Benjamin Hallow. Will be remembered with affection by all who knew him. Services ''Boul
 WALPIN-Bernard G. Died December 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Loving and devoted father of Deborah; beloved grandfather of Katia and Alexei; close brother of Howard and Gerald and sisters-in-law Estelle and Sheila, and loved by nephews and nieces and grandnephews and grand nieces. He
 Lionel Rogosin, a documentary filmmaker, died on Dec. 8 in Los Angeles. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Daniel. Mr. Rogosin made his debut in the 1950's with ''On the Bowery,'' a tour of New York's notorious Skid Row that was nominated for an Academy Aw
 AMATO-Charles A., 90. Former New York broadcasting executive, of Newton, MA., and Sarasota, FL, died Monday. He leaves adoring family: Ines (Romeo) his wife, a daughter and son-in-law Linda and David B. Loveman, and granddaughters, Jennifer Manthei and her husband Gregory, Rebecca and Miran
 BERTRAND-Charles Barrett, died December 13, 2000, formerly of Bedford, NY. He is survived by his wife, Linda Odenbach Bertrand; daughters, Cara (John) Niles, Dana (Paul) Bennett, Alexandra (Russell) Gaenzle; son, Charles H. Bertrand; mother, Marion Bertrand; predeceased by his father, John 
 DEL VALLE-Jose Felipe. Died on December 14, 2000. Beloved husband of Maura. Loving father of Rene, Felipe, Raymond, Ramon, Laura and Frances. Dear brother to surviving siblings Teresa Conroy, Ruben Del Valle and Gloria Del Valle. Dear father-in-law of Prem Parameswaran, Aida Del Valle and D
 GORMAN-Ben R. On December 12, 2000 in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Selma (Bunny), father of Peter and Janice (Weiss), adored grandfather of Jonathan, Brandon, Sophie and Allison. Beloved brother to Edna Gordon. Caring Bronx Podiatrist for over fifty years whose strong will and dedicati
 HALLOW-Gregory. On December 14. Beloved husband of Aileen. Loving father of Margot Usdan and the late Mitchell Hallow. Dear father-in-law of William Usdan and Deborah Sabin. Devoted grandfather of Leah & Benjamin Hallow. Will be remembered with affection by all who knew him. Services ''Boul
 HAMMOND-G. Myron, Major died December 7, 2000 in Manhattan at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was formerly of Essex, Connecticut. He was a retired grain broker. He was a major in the US Army in the Second World War and acted as a liaison officer to the British Embarkation Commandant. For this work 
 HIRSCH-James C. December 14, 2000 at home. Survived by his wife Doris of 56 years, four children and five grandchildren. A former television executive, he later ran his own consulting business. Gifts in his memory may be sent to Visiting Nurse and Hospice Care of Southwestern, CT, 1029 E. M
 KUDESH-Stephen Bernard. Age 56. Of Edison. Died Thursday, December 14, 2000, at St. Peter's Medical Center, New Brunswick. Born January 19, 1944, in Queens, NY. Resided in Bayside, Queens, then Kew Gardens, before moving to Edison 25 years ago. Partner at the Cornell Computer Corporation, a
 KUSHNER-Joseph. Age 92. Fort Lee, NJ. Passed away Thursday, December 14th at 10:00 PM. Devoted father of Susan Ira Reiter and Harvey Kushner. He was Senior Vice President of Sweetwater Carpets. Funeral Services Sunday, December 17th at 1:00 PM at the Sanctuary of Abraham and Sara, Forest Av
 LANE-Leon. On December 16, 2000. Loving father of Richard Lane. Dear grandfather of Jodie and Susan. Great-grandfather of Leah. Service private. LANE-Leon. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Leon Lane, our deepest sympathies 
 NASH-N. Richard. On December 11. Distinguished playwright, novelist, screenwriter, beloved teacher, and one of the pioneers of the renowned Golden Age of television drama. His works have received numerous international awards and been translated in 40 languages, including an African tongue 
 NICOSIA-Dr. Arnold P. (Nick), age 80, on December 14, 2000 at home in Manhasset, NY, after a brief illness. Predeceased by Jane Gault Nicosia. Beloved husband of Jan Nicosia. Devoted father of Thomas Nicosia of Manhasset, Nancy Moore of Heightstown, NJ, Robert Nicosia of Midlothian, VA, Joh
 PASTARNACK-Irving J. Of New Rochelle. Died December 15, 2000. Devoted husband of Irene (Stern) Pastarnack. Loving father of Bruce M. of California and Mark B. of Irvington, NY. He is also survived by four grandchildren and two brothers, Andrew and Gus, and a sister, Ping King. 12 PM service
 SCHER-Dr. Samuel L. passed away at home December 15, 2000 of natural causes at the age of 94. Born June 20, 1906 in Little Rock, Arkansas. He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Ella Scher, an attorney, and two children, Dr. Charles Scher, a plastic surgeon in Ocean Township, NJ and daught
 THEODORE-Jack N. On Dec. 14, 2000, we lost Jack N. Theodore. He was the loving husband of Maria and the fabulous father of Sabina. His great spirit, passion for the opera, love of literature, dry sense of humor & unbelievable courage will be forever missed. He will always live in our hearts
 WALPIN-Bernard G. Died December 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Loving and devoted father of Deborah; beloved grandfather of Katiah and Alexei; close brother of Howard and Gerald and sisters-in-law Sheila, Eda and Estelle and brother-in-law Bert. Loved by nephews and nieces. He was a f
 WHITAKER-Robert Martin. Born January 19, 1906 in Gloucester, NJ, died December 1, 2000 in Sarasota, Florida. He was a son of Milton C. and Mabel Martin Whitaker. He had lived in New York City and Westport, CT, and in Putnam Station, NY where there is a family summer home. He was a graduate 
 MARGOLIN-Boris. He entered eternal life Rosh Hashanah 5745. A loving man and a learned Jew. Dorothy       
 Charles P. Issawi, an Egyptian-born authority on Middle East economics and history who taught at Princeton and Columbia, died Dec. 8 at a retirement community in Newtown, Pa. He was 84. Professor Issawi was the Bayard E. Dodge Professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton from 1975
 Knud W. Jensen, a well-to-do Dane who founded the Louisiana Museum of contemporary art 20 miles north of Copenhagen, died on Tuesday. He was 84 and lived in a wing of the museum, which is on 25 acres of parkland on the Danish coast. Mr. Jensen, a native of Copenhagen whose family ha
 Lionel Rogosin, a documentary filmmaker, died on Dec. 8 in Los Angeles. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Daniel. Mr. Rogosin made his debut in the 1950's with ''On the Bowery,'' a tour of New York's notorious Skid Row that was nominated for an Academy Aw
 BLANCHARD-Robert M. Born June 4, 1924, in Syracuse, NY; son of Isaac Monroe and Frances Snow. Robert graduated from The Taft School and from William College. He served in the United States Marine Corps in World War II. Robert worked on Wall Street as an Analyst for Henderson Harrison. His d
 CUMMINGS-Joseph P., Jr. Died on December 16, 2000, in New York. Beloved husband of Miriam Lutz Cummings. Loving father of Patricia McCarthy, Maureen Brown, Richard K. Cummings and Kurt P. Cummings. Cherished grandfather of 13 grandchildren, and predeceased by his granddaughter Amanda E. Cum
 GROVES-E. Calvin, 75. Died unexpectedly on December 13 in NYC. Born in Lynn, MA, he attended schools in Salem, graduating 1943 from Salem High School. A 1951 graduate of Dartmouth College, he then received a diploma from the School of the Louvre in Paris. He served the navy in WWII. He is s
 HUMM-Harold Judson. Marine Scientist. February 26, 1912-December 11, 2000. Marine scientist, professor and a leading authority on algae, marine bacteriology and land plan ecology and taxonomy. At least 11 new species of marine algae, diatoms and invertebrate animals were named in his honor.
 IMAI-Yoshi T. (Joe). 83, December 16, in Alhambra, CA. Formerly of NYC. Survived by wife Kazuko, daughters Ann and Susan, sister Midori and granddaughters Kristine and Akiko. A tireless worker for the welfare of all JapaneseAmericans, he was the Charter President of the Japanese American Li
 LANE-Leon. With Leon's passing an era has closed at the City Athletic Club. His enthusiasm, friendship and camaraderie was a large part of the spirit that made our Club special. He will be missed. Harry Gordon       
 McBEAN-George H. On December 16, 2000. Retired NYC Police Officer and World War II Army veteran. Loving father of Holly Mcbean-Sheeger and Gina McBeanLinton. Patriarch of an extended family including seven grandchildren. He is also survived by his brother Roy McBean and will be remembered a
 McCARRON-William J. On December 14, 2000, of Island Park, NY. Adored and adoring husband of Mary. Loving step-dad to Patricia, Neil and Dan Conaty. Doting Poppy of Meghan, Kacey and Kileen Conaty, and Ben and Ellie Conaty. Loving nephew of Virginia McCarron. Athlete, stagehand, steamfitter,
 MINSKOFF-Myron Allen. 83, died December 17, 2000. Beloved husband of Carolyn, adoring father of Sara and devoted father-in-law of Robb. The sole surviving son of legendary developer Sam Minskoff, Myron helped shape the skyline of New York and the metropolitan area in a real estate career sp
 PRINZ-Martin. Curator Emeritus in The Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences at The American Museum of Natural History, died December 16, 2000, after a heroic battle with cancer. Marty was born on September 5, 1931, on the lower east side of Manhattan. He truly cherished his roots. He w
 TARG-David. On December 16, 2000, at age 89. Beloved husband of Pauline, to whom he was married for 58 years. Devoted uncle of Richard Engelman, Robert Targ, Louis, Nora, and Amelia Peck, and Patricia Nocella. Born on October 24, 1911, in Brooklyn, NY, he was a graduate of the Brooklyn Law 
 TURNER-Velvert. A noted musician and former understudy of Jimi Hendrix, passed away on the morning of December 11, 2000, at his home in Brooklyn, New York. Velvert was born October 12, 1951, and is survived by his mother, Helen Harris. Mr. Turner was an accomplished guitarist who crossed pa
 SCHULSKY-Alexander. Dad, you left us much too soon. You are a grandfather now, and Mom, Ruby and I know how much you would love your grandson, Grady. Someday, we will share our memories of you with him.       
 William Thon, an American landscape painter and watercolorist who continued to work after macular degeneration had left him legally blind, died at his home in Port Clyde, Me., on Dec. 6. He was was 94. Mr. Thon, who was born in Brooklyn, studied briefly at the Art Students League in
 N. Richard Nash, a playful and prolific playwright, screenwriter and novelist whose greatest success was the tender drama ''The Rainmaker,'' died on Dec. 11 in Manhattan. He was 87. Born Nathan Richard Nasbaum, Mr. Nash was raised on the rough-and-tumble south side of Philadelphia a
 ADELMAN-Philip. Husband of the late Ethel Adelman, beloved uncle and dear friend. Passed away at his home on Monday, December 18, 2000. Funeral Wednesday, December 20, 2000, 12 noon, at ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapel,'' Forest Hills, New York, corner of 76th Road.       
 BOCKNER-Judd, M.D. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Gordon, Andrew, and Derry. Grandfather to five grandchildren. We are all better for having known him.       
 BURGHEIMER-Alan J. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Alan J. Burgheimer, on November 24 and extend belated condolences to his family. Paul N. Gardner, President       
 D'INZILLO-Steve. We the family, the siblings, of Steve D'Inzillo, mourn the loss of our beloved brother. His sensitivity, caring and love for us have been an abiding source of pride and example. Those same sentiments he dedicated to the larger world of work and country. He entered the work 
 HELBLING-Philip, 75. On December 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Rivia. Devoted father of Andrew (Louise Reggio) & Marcia (David Goldstein). Cherished grandfather of Dana, Emily, and Samuel. Holocaust survivor and World War II and Korean War veteran. He loved this country, which took him in wi
 LEWINTER - SMIGANOWSKI - Ka simir, Esq. Born September 4, 1913. Passed away December 15, 2000. Beloved father, grandfather and father-in-law. He dedicated his life to promoting human rights around the world.       
 LoBUE-Vincent 43, of Yonkers died December 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Catherine RidgwayLoBue. Cherished son of Ciro and Josephine LoBue. Also survived by his daughters Nicole, Tina, & Veronica and one granddaughter. Brother of the late Grayce LoBueSerowik. The family will receive friends 
 MANZELLA-Onofrio H. (Freddie). On December 14, 2000. Predeceased by his first wife, Mary Litrell. Survived by second wife, Christiane, and daughter Lenore and her husband William Frick. Mr. Manzella enjoyed a successful career as a violinist and conductor. He toured in the United States and
 McCARRON-Warren J. On December 14, 2000, of Island Park, New York. Adored and adoring husband of Mary. Loving step-dad to Patricia, Neil and Dan Conaty. Doting Poppy of Meghan, Kacey and Kileen Conaty, and Ben and Ellie Conaty. Loving nephew of Virginia McCarron. Athlete, stagehand, steamfi
 O'LEAR-Timothy. Of Centerport, L.I. Suddenly on December 17, 2000 in his 15th year. Cherished son of Brian and Laura. Loving brother of Allison and Kevin. Dearest grandson of Ted and Pat O'Lear, Anthony and Dorothy Piscitelli. Reposing at Virag-Maddex Funeral Services, 195 East Main Street,
 POPPER-Felix. New York City Opera deeply mourns the passing of one of its most beloved and august members. Felix has been a member of the company since 1959, as an administrator, conductor, coach and mentor. He was Music Administrator for over thirty years, and a principal part of the team 
 ROSSMAN-Philip. Passed away Sunday, December 17, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Goldie. Devoted father of Hilda Rossman, Marc Rossman and his wife Roni. Loving grandfather of Stephen and Eric. Service today 12 noon at Hellman Memorial Chapels, Spring Valley, N.Y. 845-356-8600.       
 SHIMANS-Irving A., 89. Of 723A Heritage Village. Beloved husband for almost 62 years of Ida (Bushlow) Shimans, died December 16. He was the devoted father of the late Claire Shimans. All funeral services will be held in Connecticut.       
 SIEGEL-Rabbi Charles W. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. After making aliyah in 1968, he did pioneering work for the Conservative/Masorti Movement in Israel for over 30 years, serving as founding rabbi of Congregation Moriah in Haifa. We express our deep
 Randolph A. Hearst, the last surviving son of the man who shook American journalism and politics in the early part of the 20th century, died yesterday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. In the 1970's, he ran his father's flagship, The San Francisco Examiner, as it covered the kidnapping and
 Valerio Longoria, an accordion player and a prominent early figure in south Texas conjunto music, died on Friday in a nursing home in San Antonio. He was 75 and lived in San Antonio. Conjunto is a hard-driving dance music in which the accordion leads a small band that also includes 
 Jacques Jean Francois Goddet, the founder and for 40 years the editor of the well-known sports newspaper, L'Equipe, and for 40 years the director of the world's most important bicycle race, the Tour de France, died last Friday in Paris. He was 95. The French sports minister, Marie-G
 Onofrio Ottomanelli, who opened a Greenwich Village butcher shop half a century ago that grew into a New York institution, died Friday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Ottomanelli, whose motto was ''live, work and trade in the Village,'' disti
 ADELMAN-Philip. Husband of the late Ethel Adelman, beloved uncle and dear friend. Passed away at his home on Monday, December 18, 2000. Funeral Wednesday, December 20, 2000, 12 noon, at ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapel,'' Forest Hills, New York, corner of 76th Road.       
 DELANEY-Edmund T. Of Gorham Rd, Chester, CT. died Sunday (December 17), was a retired lawyer and an historian, lecturer and author of 5 books on regional history of New York and Connecticut: ''New York's Turtle Bay'' (1965), ''New York's Greenwich Village'', (1968), ''The Connecticut Shore'
 EDSTROM-Richard. 63, industrial designer, recipient of an IDESA and three CLIO awards, died Sunday, December 17, 2000 of cancer. He held patents for numerous mechanical devices. His glass bottles designed for major products, including Listerine and Murphy's soap, are utilized today and were
 GILSOUL-Benoit. Artist died on December 17, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Edith, his son and daughter Marc and Mireille. He will be deeply missed by family and friends. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, January 3rd, 2001 at St. Gabriel's Church 3250 Arlington Avenue, Riverda
 GOETZ-Robert Hans, MD. Retired Professor of Surgery at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Pioneer of the Coronary Bypass Operation and Intra-aortic Balloon Pump, passed away at his home in Scarsdale, NY December 15, 2000 at the age of 90 after a battle with pancreatic cancer. Devoted husb
 HEARST-Randolph Apperson. On December 18, 2000 at the age of 85. Husband of Veronica, father of Catherine M. Hill, Virginia Anne Hearst Randt and Patricia Campbell Hearst Shaw, Anne Randolph Hearst, and Victoria Veronica Hearst, and four grandchildren. Church services will be held on Wednes
 KRUSSMAN-Louis F. On December 17, 2000. Graduate Fordham University 1937. President of Trifari, Krussman and Fishel, Inc. He was a past president of the Twenty-Four Karat Club of New York City. He was on the Board of Governors of the Arthritis Foundation, NYC Chapter, was a member of the Ca
 LoBUE-Vincent 43, of Yonkers died December 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Catherine RidgwayLoBue. Cherished son of Ciro and Josephine LoBue. Also survived by his daughters Nicole, Tina, & Veronica and one granddaughter. Brother of the late Grayce LoBueSerowik. The family will receive friends 
 MacLEAN-Alexander H., 77. In Westport, CT. Husband of Frances MacLean. Father of Marcia McLeod, Alexander H. MacLean, Jr., Peter J. MacLean, Joseph A. MacLean. Grandfather of six. Predeceased by his first wife, Barbara MacLean. Retired public relations writer for Carl Byoir & Assocs., N.Y.C
 MINSKOFF-Myron A. The Board of Directors of 700 Park Avenue mourns the passing of our past president and neighbor, Myron Minskoff. To his beloved Carolyn, his cherished daughter Sarah, and son-in-law Rob, we extenbd our deepest sympathy.       
 ORNSTEIN-Albert. On December 19, 2000. Beloved husband of Miriam, dear father of Steve and the late Dooley and Robert, and father-in-law of Joan, Sy, and Nancy. Cherished grandfather of Nancy, Richard, Jeorjie, Jodi, Kenny, Jim, Gus, Rosie, Nina, and great grandfather of Jordan. ''Bronco'',
 UCHITEL-David, 86, of Accord, N.Y., originally a Brooklyn native, passed away on December 19th. As a professional violist, his career was both illustrious and varied. He performed with many of the top big bands, as well as performing with the New York Metropolitan Opera for 37 years. He is 
 WALPIN-Bernard. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation extends heartfelt sympathies to Trustee Gerald Walpin and his family on the passing of his beloved brother, Bernard Walpin. Jerry, may your memories of him comfort you at this difficult time.
 Dr. Robert Hans Goetz, a cardiovascular surgeon who pioneered coronary bypass surgery and devised an arterial pump to sustain a patient's ailing heart, died Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 90. Dr. Goetz's career led him from his native Germany to South Africa and on to 
 Diodoros I, who for two decades led the largest and oldest of the Christian churches in the Holy Land as the Greek Orthodox patriarch here, died Tuesday night at the age of 77 after a prolonged illness. As Orthodox priests and other mourners prayed today in the dark, candle-lit chap
 John V. Lindsay, the debonair political irregular who represented Manhattan's Silk Stocking district on the East Side for seven years in Congress and was a two-term mayor of New York during the racial unrest, antiwar protests, municipal strikes and other upheavals of the 1960's and early 70
 Milt Hinton, one of the most recorded musicians of all time and the dean of American bass players, died on Tuesday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens. He was 90 and lived in St. Alban's, Queens. One of the first great bass soloists in jazz, he began his career when the string bas
 HACKER-Seymour. Died on December 19th, 2000. Dearly beloved husband of Linda Hacker, dearly beloved father of Melissa Hacker & Emily Hacker. Beloved father-in-law of Anne Keating. Dearest grandfather of Olivia Ruth Hacker-Keating. Dearest brother of Laura Lawrence and uncle of James B. Dwye
 HEARST-Randolph Apperson. On December 18, 2000 at the age of 85. Husband of Veronica, father of Catherine Millicent Hearst, Virginia Anne Hearst Randt and Patricia Campbell Hearst Shaw, Anne Randolph Hearst, and Victoria Veronica Hearst, and four grandchildren. Service private. In lieu of f
 HOPPER-Henry G., 88. Of Indian River Shores, FL, died December 18th, 2000. He was a resident of Monmouth County, NJ for over 60 years before moving to Vero Beach. He was pre-deceased by his wife of 60 years, Wilma Rose Hopper. Mr. Hopper was retired from the U.S. Trust Company of New York C
 LEVIN-Dr. Ralph. Loving brother, devoted uncle and good friend to all who knew him. Services Friday, 9:45AM Parkside Chapels, Queens Boulevard at 66th Avenue, Forest Hills, New York.       
 LINDSAY-John V. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of our former Chairman of The Board, who served the theater with singular dedication from 1984 to 1991. He led the theater with energy and enthusiasm to a previously unknown stability, and the theater's current s
 MINSKOFF-Myron A. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Myron A. Minskoff and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 ORNSTEIN-Albert. On December 19, 2000. Beloved husband of Miriam, dear father of Steve and the late Dooley and Robert, and father-in-law of Joan, Sy, and Nancy. Cherished grandfather of Nancy, Richard, Jeorjie, Jodi, Kenny, Jim, Gus, Rosie, Nina, and great grandfather of Jordan. ''Bronco'',
 OTTEN-Louis. The Board of Directors and staff of VISIONS/Services for the Blind and Visuallly Impaired records with sorrow the passing of The Honorable Louis Otten. He was a most dedicated supporter of VISIONS and Vacation Camp for the Blind and member of The Board of Directors for 60 years
 RAND - William. The Jewish Museum mourns the passing of our Honorary Trustee, William Rand, whose personal passion for art and music inspired an enlightened patronage of New York's cultural institutions. Together with his late wife, Muriel, William Rand took great joy in building an art col
 SELVIN-Ira.Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished and devoted member Ira Selvin. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, Friday December 22 at 10am Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Em
 TAUBER-Emil at 88, beloved husband of the late Betty. Loving father of Harvey and Ronald. Adored grandfather of Farrah, Allison, Josh, and Jenna. A true gentleman who was loved and respected by all who knew him; his simple elegance and knowledge distinguished him. Services will be today, 11
 WANTZ-Dr. George E. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Medical College of Cornell University are saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. George E. Wantz. A surgeon at The New York Hospital -Cornell Medical Center since 1949, he gained an 
 WOODSIDE-William S. The Harvard School of Public Health mourns the passing of longtime friend, William S. Woodside. We deeply appreciates his years of service and generous support. He will be greatly missed. Dean Barry R. Bloom       
 Mickey Mantle Jr., who struggled with the expectations accompanying the son of a baseball icon and the travails that afflicted his family far from the public eye, died Wednesday at a hospital in Dallas. He was 47. The cause was complications of cancer, his family said. He ha
 COSTELLO-Edward P. A resident of Easthampton, NY died on December 20, 2000. He was 53. Mr. Costello was born on March 20, 1947 in the Bronx to Myrtle (Nelson) and the late Fabian Costello. He served in the US Armed Forces in Viet Nam. He was Senior Vice President at Barney Skanska Construct
 HINTON-Milt. The City University of New York mourns the passing of Milt Hinton, distinguished jazz bassist, who shared his craft with our students for more that two decades as an instructor at Hunter College and Baruch College. Mr. Hinton conducted the Jazz Workshop at Baruch College from 1
 HOLLANDER-Cantor Menachem. Born in Jerusalem, died in New York, buried in Israel. He brought us friendship and laughter and was a devoted, sweet singer of Israel. Cantors Avi Albrecht, Israel Singer and Motti Fuchs Rabbi Myron M. Fenster       
 KORNBERG-Eugene. Of Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of Teaneck, N.J., on December 19, 2000. Loving husband of Shirley, devoted father of Steven and Janet, beloved granfather. Retired general manager of The Artkraft Strauss Sign Corporation of New York and respected leader in the sign indus
 LINDSAY-John V. Former Mayor of New York City, died Tuesday, December 19th in Hilton Head, SC. Mr. Lindsay was born in New York City on November 24, 1921 and was the son of the late George Nelson and Eleanor Vliet Lindsay. He attended Buckley and St. Paul's schools and was a graduate of Yal
 MITCHELL-Stephen, Ph.D. On Dec. 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Margaret. Loving father of Caitlin and Samantha. Cherished son of Stanley & the late Lillian. Brother of Richard. Dear nephew of Florence & Leah Lutzky. Service Sunday 10:00 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
 MOSKOWITZ-Dr. Herbert. Of Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of East Hills, New York on December 13. He was a cultured, gentle man known for his wry wit and generosity. Son of the late Abraham and Ida Moskowitz, brother of the late Eleanore Glauberman. Survived by wife Doris Cook Moskowitz, b
 ORNSTEIN-Albert. The Fund for New Priorities in America, mourns the passing of Albert Ornstein, a founding member and longtime Board member. Albert's commitment to the pursuit of peace and justice was an inspiration to all who knew him and will be sorely missed. Our sympathies go out to his
 OTTEN-Louis. On December 20, 2000, age 93. Devoted husband of the late Marjorie Levy Otten, loved father of Lois Robbins and Michael Otten, father-in-law of Evelyne Otten and Michael Robbins, cherished grandfather of Juli Robbins Greenwald (Dr. Daniel), Jil Robbins Pollock (John Henry), Syl
 RAND-William L. On December 19, 2000. Loving husband of the late Muriel. Dearest father of Kathleen and Ruben Oliva. Most cherished grandfather of Nicole Valerie. Founder and President of Rand Freres, Paris and William Rand Inc., N.Y. Friend and mentor to all who knew him. Also survived by 
 REINER-Mark. On December 21, 2000, succumbed from brain cancer. Beloved companion of Shigeo Haga. Noted casting director for Broadway shows, good friend to all in the industry. He will be missed. ''Break a leg,'' Mark. Service Friday 11:30am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St & Amsterdam Ave.    
 ROTERT-Warren H., counsel to Morgan & Finnegan, LLP, passed away in New Jersey on December 19th at the age of 70. Mr. Rotert was a prominent patent lawyer who specialized in patent and intellectual property litigation and counseling. He joined Morgan & Finnegan, LLP's New York office in 196
 WEBER-Dr. Samuel, passed away Thursday morning, December 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Martha, devoted father of Elizabeth Perlman, and Dr. Ellen Weber Showstack, and the late Richard, loving grandfather of Amy and Jill Perlman, father-in-law of Alvin, and Jon. Contributions to your favoriti
 Roebuck (Pops) Staples, whose family gospel group, the Staple Singers, carried message songs to a huge pop audience, died on Tuesday at his home in Dolton, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 85. The Staple Singers were Mr. Staples and his children: first a son and two daughters, later t
 Sheldon Ross, who founded the Sheldon Ross Gallery in Birmingham, Mich., and dealt in works by the painter and collagist Romare Bearden and other artists, died on Nov. 12  in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Ross, a native of Detroit who was also a real estate invest
 Dr. Stephen A. Mitchell, who played a significant role in shaping the way many modern American psychoanalysts think about and practice their profession, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54. The cause of death had not been determined, but a colleague, Dr. Lewis Aron, sa
 Joseph Heitz, who made one of America's most famous wines and helped put the Napa Valley of California on the map as a source of fine wines made from bordeaux grapes,  died there last Saturday at a hospital in the town of St. Helena. He was 81. The cause of death was not disclosed, 
 FEINER-Harriet C. The members of the New York Social Security Bar Association extend our deepest sympathies to the Hon. Jerome J. Feiner and his family on the passing of his wife Harriet. David Kuznicki, President Ted Shapiro, Vice President Richard P. Morris, Secretary       
 LINDSAY-Mayor John V. The Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of John V. Lindsay, Mayor of New York City (1966-1973), member, U.S. Congress (1959-1966) and Director Emeritus of Lincoln Center. As Mayor, John Lindsay served ex officio on the Linc
 MEYERS-William F., 83, formerly of Huntington, Long Island, NY, and of Indian River Shores, FL died unexpectedly Wednesday, December 20, 2000 at Holmes Regional Medical Center in Florida. Mr. Meyers was born September 30, 1917 in NY, NY, and moved to Indian River Shores from Pompano Beach, 
 MITCHELL-Stephen, Ph.D. On Dec. 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Margaret. Loving father of Caitlin and Samantha. Cherished son of Stanley & the late Lillian. Brother of Richard. Dear nephew of Florence & Leah Lutzky. Service Sunday 10:00 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
 O'MALLEY-James, Jr., died on December 20, 2000 after a short illness. Born on August 13, 1910 in New York City. Distinguished by his many achievements in the legal profession and public service, and admired for his integrity, high principles and grace. A graduate of Princeton University and
 Alan Tyson, a British musicologist and psychoanalyst whose works on Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven over the last 40 years are considered among the most important achievements of modern musical scholarship, died on Nov. 10 at Shoreham-by-Sea, in Sussex, England. He was 74. The cause was
 Chen Zhen, a Chinese-born conceptual artist and sculptor who lived in Paris and became a highly visible international art figure during the 1990's, culminating with an appearance at the 1999 Venice Biennale, died on Dec. 13 in Paris. He was 45. The cause was cancer, reported Mr. Che
 BARTON-John Murray. Artist. December 17 at age 79. He will be greatly missed by wife Hilda, daughter and son Erika and Leonard, and all who knew him.       
 CYBULA-Robert W. Age 49. Died of renal cancer at home in Key West, November 17, 2000. A Broadway hair designer, his credits included Zoe Caldwell's ''Medea,'' ''A Few Good Men'' with Tom Hulce, and the A & E production of ''Peter Pan'' with Cathy Rigby. Beloved life partner of Joaquin Romag
 HENEFELD-Rose. On December 22, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Edmund. Loving mother of Mark Hardy and mother-in-law of Ruth. Dear grandmother of Karen, Arthur and his wife Rajka and Peter. Great-grandmother of Jake. Service private.       
 KLEIN-Jerome. Age 69 of Waterside Plaza in Manhattan passed away on December 16. Survived by his loving & devoted wife Magda Klein, children Robin, (Gary) Scott (Arlene), Nicole and stepdaughter Joanna, sister Gertrude Benanti, brother Marty Klein, and granddaughters Danielle, Jenna, Julia 
 LINDSAY-John V. Former Mayor of New York City, died Tuesday, December 19th in Hilton Head, SC. Mr. Lindsay was born in New York City on November 24, 1921 and was the son of the late George Nelson and Eleanor Vliet Lindsay. He attended Buckley and St. Paul's schools and was a graduate of Yal
 MITCHELL-Stephen, Ph.D. On Dec. 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Margaret. Loving father of Caitlin and Samantha. Cherished son of Stanley & the late Lillian. Brother of Richard. Dear nephew of Florence & Leah Lutzky. Service Sunday 10:00 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
 O'MALLEY-James, Jr., died on December 20, 2000 after a short illness. Born on August 13, 1910 in New York City. Distinguished by his many achievements in the legal profession and public service, and admired for his integrity, high principles and grace. A graduate of Princeton University and
 ROTERT-Warren Herbert. Died after a long illness on December 19, 2000. Son of the late Herbert and Fannie (Wilson) Rotert, he grew up in Little Falls, NJ, and was a graduate from Passaic Valley High School (1947). He received his undergraduate degree in Civil Engineering from Lafayette Coll
 ROTH-Sidney. On December 22, 2000. Beloved husband of 60 years of Rae, adored father of Howard, Larry (Nanci), Fred (Judy), loving grandfather of Scott, David, Jaime, Brian, Casey and Liza, and a friend to all that knew him.       
 SASMOR-James A. Died of a sudden illness on Friday, Shabbat eve, the second night of Chanukah. Dearly beloved husband of Martha Greenhouse Sasmor for 51 years, loving father of Kenneth Samuel, adored father-in-law of Sheila, devoted grandfather of Jonathan and Steven, cherished brother of D
 SILVER-Edward M., D.D.S.. Died December 20, 2000, in his 98th year in the company of his loving daughter Ellen Greenberger, sonin-law Michael Burton, and grandchildren Kari Edwards and David Silver. He practiced dentistry in Lawrence, LI, until age 85. We benefited immeasurably from his nur
 YOHE-Thomas G. Resident of Norwalk, CT, died on December 20, 2000. Mr. Yohe was born April 26, 1937 to Robert C. and Berdene Walker Yohe in Flushing, NY. Mr. Yohe graduated from Baldwin High School in 1955 and attended Syracuse University where he majored in fine arts. An advertising execut
 Robert Buck, the lead guitarist for the popular alternative-rock band 10,000 Maniacs, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 42. The cause was liver failure, according to Blair Woods, the band's publicist, who said Mr. Buck died at the University of Pittsburgh Medical C
 Seymour Hacker, whose 57th Street bookstore, Hacker Art Books, was a well-known fixture of both the art and book worlds for more than 50 years, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 83. A small, bright-eyed man fluent in four languages, Mr. Hacker was one of the last booksellers to le
 Victor Borge, the irrepressible musical humorist, pianist and conductor saluted all over the world as ''the comedian of the keyboard'' and ''the unmelancholy Dane,'' died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 91. Mr. Borge made Broadway history in the 1950's when his show
 Dr. Kenneth Merle Brinkhous, a pathologist who helped develop a treatment for hemophilia, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina Medical School. He was 92. Dr. Brinkhous's research on blood clotting beg
 Myron A. Minskoff, a real estate executive who oversaw the construction of sizable business and residential buildings in New York and other cities, died on Dec. 17 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 83 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Southampton, N.Y.       
 BASSMAN-Nathan. On December 24, 2000. Beloved husband of Eleanor, loving father of Arnold and the late Tina, dear brother of Meyer (Nina) Bassman, Ann Levine, and brother-in-law to Norman and Barbara King. A self made man who struggled and succeeded, forming his own mechanical engineering f
 GAVARIS-Peter Theodore. 87, December 18, 2000. Loving husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle and friend. He was an exceptional man whose warmth and kindness will be remembered always by those who knew him and loved him.       
 LAGER-Irwin. On December 23, 2000. Of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband of 49 years of Betty. Loving father of Martin (Patricia), Steven (Wendy) and Ned. Adored grandfather of Karen, David, Stacey, Bari, Neal and Jodi. Devoted brother of Arthur and Irma Lager, Ann Simon and Riva (and the late
 O'MALLEY-James Jr. The Board of Directors and staff of Interfaith Neighbors extend their deepest sympathy to the family of James O'Malley Jr. Jim, our friend and former Director, will be remembered for his kind soul, wise leadership and steady hand that guided Interfaith to greater heights 
 ROTERT-Warren Herbert. Died after a long illness on December 19, 2000. Son of the late Herbert and Fannie (Wilson) Rotert, he grew up in Little Falls, NJ, and was a graduate from Passaic Valley High School (1947). He received his undergraduate degree in Civil Engineering from Lafayette Coll
 SASMOR-Dr. James A. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Martha and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Sr. Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President 
 Thomas K. Turnage, who served in the Reagan administration as the director of the Selective Service System and as administrator of what was then the Veterans Administration, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 77. The cause was cancer. General Turnage
 Victor Borge, the irrepressible musical humorist, pianist and conductor saluted all over the world as ''the comedian of the keyboard'' and ''the unmelancholy Dane,'' died Saturday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 91. Mr. Borge made Broadway history in the 1950's when his show,
 Zack Carr III, a fashion designer who became creative director at Calvin Klein Inc., died at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan on Thursday. He was 55. The cause was a rare cancer, according to the company. Mr. Carr joined Calvin Klein in 1970, a few years
 Barney McNulty, who is generally credited with being the first person to use cue cards on television, died on Dec. 18 at his home in Studio City, Calif. He was 77. He apparently died of a heart attack, his wife, Jill, said. Mr. McNulty first exhibited his knack for turning s
 Daniel C. Dunham, an architect and an expert on city planning who specialized in designs for the tropics, died on Dec. 19 in New York, where he lived. He was 71. The cause of death was heart failure, said his wife, Mary Frances. Mr. Dunham was a professor of architecture and
 Edson Mitchell, an American who became one of the most powerful executives of Deutsche Bank of Germany, died Friday in a plane crash. Mr. Mitchell, 47, who lived most of the year in London, was the sole passenger in a Beech 200 aircraft flying from Portland, Me., to his vacation home in Ran
 Dr. Marius Berthus Jansen, an American scholar of Japanese history and culture, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78. Dr. Jansen was the author, co-author or editor of 20 books, and wrote in English and Japanese. His latest volume, summing up much of his work, ''
 BERGER-Alvin M. Of East Meadow, on December 24, 2000. Beloved husband of Joanne. Loving father of the late son Steven and his wife Barbara, daughter Karen and her husband Lon, son Richard and his wife Kathy. Grandfather of seven, great grandfather of five. Brother-in-law to Paula & Morton. 
 BLOOD-John Foster. Of Manhattan on December 24, 2000. Citizen of the world, unmatched in his gentility and grace. A dedicated friend, world traveler, strongly committed to reconciliation in Europe, veteran, man of the British rails, selfless in his service to the AUA. Those who knew him wil
 BORGE-Victor. Thanks To Scandinavia is profoundly saddened by the passing of its co-founder and National Chairman Victor Borge. Escaping from Denmark in 1940 to freedom in the U.S. just ahead of the Nazi invasion, Mr. Borge continually showed vigorous appreciation for the opportunities prov
 BROD-Louis A. age 86, of Fort Lee, NJ formerly of Englewood Cliffs, NJ. A successful businessman and manufacturer. Survived by his wife Ruth of 48 years, his daughter Carole Sherer, his son Dennis, five grandsons and two great-grandchildren. Services are Tuesday, 1:45 PM, at Robert Schoem's
 GELLERT-Peter Joseph. Died on Dec. 23, 2000 from complications resulting from aplastic anemia. Born on August 6, 1926 to Greta (Petschek) Gellert and Oswald R. Gellert in Prague, Czechoslovakia, he attended The Lawrenceville School, Harvard College, and Yale Law School. He served in the US 
 HILAL-Sadek K. The Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, The College of Physicians and Surgeons, The Department of Radiology and their Alumni Associations, mourn the passing of Dr. Sadek K. Hilal. Dr. Hilal was a worldrenowned neuroradiologist, inventor, and Professor Emeritus, who develope
 HOCHMAN-Robert. December 21, 2000. Of Virginia Beach, VA, formerly of Huntington, LI. Husband of late Ara, father of Steven and Rodney, grandfather of four, brother of Bertha. We share the grief and loss. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who lo
 LAGER-Irwin. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 LEVY-Samuel. Born October 30, 1906. Died on December 24, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Anne, devoted father of Mark, loving brother to Rose & the late Henry, Miriam and Herman, cherished uncle and friend. He worked for the Wall St. firm of Abraham and Company from January 1924 until Jan
 LIVADAS-Van M. (Van M. Evans). Born July 18, 1916, died December 23, 2000. A Jupiter resident for the past 18 years, he was born and raised in New York City. He was a graduate of New York University and attended Columbia University for graduate work. A veteran of WWII, he served in the U.S.
 MITCHELL-Edson V. Born in Portland, Maine, on May 19, 1953, and grew up in South Portland and Auburn. He attended Edward Little High School, where he met his wife Suzan James. They married on November 11, 1972. Mr. Mitchell graduated from Colby College with distinction in Economics in 1975 
 MONEO-Santiago. On December 22, 2000, at age 47, leaving too soon his beloved wife Rosanne; his adoring mother, Gloria; sister Carmen; brothers Jesse and Eddie; late father Jesus; extended family and friends. He leaves a legacy of deep pride in his Basque, Cuban & Puerto Rican heritage and 
 POMERANTZ-Howard E. Husband of Ruth Brooks, father of Alan and Jan, father-in-law of Everett Wilcox, stepfather of Rachel, Eric and David, loving grandfather of Sarah and Rebecca, step-grandfather of Merrill, Alex, Daniel, Taela, Gabriela and Tomasz, and former husband of Ethel, passed on D
 STRAUS-Samuel H. Mintz. NYC. On Sunday, Dec. 24. Devoted to and loved by his brother Jerry; his nephews Joshua, Adam, & Peter; his niece Jennifer; & their families. Cherished by all of his extended family. A loyal and dear friend and mentor to many. Service to be held Thursday, December 28t
 SUTTON-Joseph. The Board of Directors and community of La Coquille, Westhampton Beach, join to convey our heartfelt sorrow at the loss of Joseph Sutton. Our deepest condolences to his loving wife Nora, his devoted children Kim, Gregg and to their families. He will be sorely missed.       
 GILSOUL-Benoit. June 1914-December 17, 2000. We mourn his passing, and extend our sincere sympathy to Edith, Mireille, and Marc. The religious and secular interiors he created in numerous public buildings in the USA in association with major American architects, in stained glass, tapestry, 
 Robert H. Wiebe, an authority on American political and social history who had taught at Northwestern University, died on Dec. 10 at a hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 70 and lived in Evanston. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Penny Whiteside. Professor Wiebe, a co-au
 Steve D'Inzillo, former chief officer of New York Projectionists Local 306 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Portland, Ore., where he had lived since the late 1980's. He was 90. Between 1933, when he joined the local, and 195
 Thomas George Yohe, co-creator of the quirky but durable cartoon tutorial ''Schoolhouse Rock,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 63. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said George Newall, his creative partner. A generation of children picked up the fundam
 Jason Robards, who reclaimed the legacy of Eugene O'Neill and became one of the most powerful and important actors on the American stage and screen, died yesterday at Bridgeport Hospital in Connecticut. He was 78. Mr. Robards, who lived in Southport, Conn., died of complications fro
 Joe Gilliam, who was one of the first blacks to be a starting pro quarterback when he played for the Pittsburgh Steelers' 1974 Super Bowl champions but who later slid into drug addiction and homelessness, died Monday in Nashville. He was 49. Gilliam was pronounced dead upon arrival 
 John Cooper, an automotive engineer and a sports-car driver who created the chic vehicle of London's Swinging Sixties, the Mini Cooper, died on Sunday at his home in Worthing, West Sussex. He was 77 and had cancer. The tiny high-performance sedan became the favored car of the rock s
 BARISH-Matthew, 93. On Dec. 23rd. He managed the greeting card department of the Hebrew Publishing Company for 35 years. After his retirement, he taught at the School of Visual Arts and Parsons School of Design. He is survived by his wife of 22 years, Dr. Natalie Goldberg, his son David (Na
 BERGMAN-Walter A. Of Nyack, New York on Monday, December 25. He was 74 years old. A memorial service will be held on Friday, December 29 at 12 noon at the Hannemann Funeral Home, 88 South Broadway, Nyack, NY.       
 BETTMANN-Robert E. (Born December 22, 1922-December 24, 00) Bob, ''Mr B.'', a longtime resident of Hartsdale and Edgemont, New York. Devoted husband to Lynn. Loving father of Ellen Piontek of Holliston, MA, and Andy Poland of Milford, Connecticut. Graduate of Columbia Grammar School, attend
 BORGE-Victor. The American Jewish Committee remembers with great affection and enduring admiration Victor Borge, a man who embodied the rare and wonderful qualities of genuine humor, deep compassion, and true humanity. We are especially grateful for Mr. Borge's gift of performance that enab
 FEIGENBAUM - George. The Board of Governors and members of The Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, George Feigenbaum. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Francine and family. Stuart Herz, President FEIGENBAUM-George. We extend condolences to loving w
 GELLERT-Peter Joseph. Died on Dec. 23, 2000 from complications resulting from aplastic anemia. Born on August 6, 1926 to Greta (Petschek) Gellert and Oswald R. Gellert in Prague, Czechoslovakia, he attended The Lawrenceville School, Harvard College, and Yale Law School. He served in the US 
 GRUBER-Dr. Joseph, former Director of Business Education of the NYC Board of Education, died July 12, 2000 in California at age 90. After his retirement in 1968 he served as personal assistant to the President of Pace College, Dr. Edward Mortola till 1974 when he moved to California. He was
 KLEINBERG-Abraham. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 LANG-Meyer. Meyer Lang of Mahwah, N.J. died December 23, 2000. Loving husband of Goldie Lang and the late Barbara Lang. He was 75. Mr. Lang was the owner of Kenlin Pet Supply in Mahwah, N.J. which was one of the largest wholesale pet supply distributors in the United States. He sold the bus
 LEACH-Robert Hensley. Robert Hensley Leach, creator of American Express' ''Do You Know Me,'' ad campaign in the 1970's and later a professional landscaper in Litchfield County, CT, died at his home in Litchfield aged 67 after a battle with emphysema. Leach started his advertising career at 
 MARCECA-Robert K., 57, President and owner of RKM Enterprises Real Estate Investments Inc. and Kane Realty Services, Inc., died on December 26, 2000 at NYU Hospital in NYC. Mr. Marceca was a real estate investor, developer and property manager. Mr. Marceca was in the real estate business fo
 MERLI-Frank. Of Northport, NY, on Dec. 22, 2000. Professor of History at Queens College, CUNY. Survived by his wife, Margaret; his sons, Robert & David; his brother, Joseph; and his sister, Kathleen Paul. Reposing at Nolan & TaylorHowe Funeral Home, 5 Laurel Ave., Northport. Religious servi
 O'MALLEY-James Jr. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P. mourns with sorrow the December 20 passing of our dear friend and colleague James O'Malley Jr. A renowned energy lawyer and public servant, Jim joined LeBoeuf in 1945, was made partner in 1947 and retired from private practice in 198
 ORINGEL-Daniel, 87. At Somers Manor Nursing Home, on December 24, 2000. Loving husband of Ethel. Incomparable father of Herbert (Sandy) and Felice (Ken). Adored grandfather of Amy (Dan), Ethan, Matthew and Michael. And beloved widower of his childrens' mother, Belle. Those who were fortunat
 PICARD-Antoine A., 71 of Bean Road in Charlotte, VT. Died Sunday, December 24, 2000 at his son's home in Hinesburg. He was born in Brussels, Belgium on November 8, 1929, the son of Andre and Elizabeth (Boelaers) Picard. He received an M.A. in Law and a B.A. in Economics from the University 
 POMERANTZ-Howard E. His coworkers, friends and family at Victoria Vogue Inc. mourn the passing of our former President and son of our Founder, Samuel L. Pomerantz.       
 RUBIN-Leonard G. A liaison executive for the nongovernmental organization of the United Nations, former marketing executive and faculty member of NYU School of Continuing Education and F.I.T. He died on December 26, 2000. He was 86, a resident of New York City. He was the son of the late Dr
 SASMOR-James A. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, James A. Sasmor. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to his family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Alisa R. Doctoroff, President       
 SIMONDS-Robinson. On December 22, 2000. Of Gladwyne, PA, formerly of Southampton, NY. He is survived by his wife Jane M. Simonds, sons William Haskell Simonds and his wife Jane, Robinson Simonds Jr., grandsons William Haskell Simonds Jr., Alexander Thomson Simonds, and three stepchildren Ed
 SOBEL-Matthew. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member and devoted Brotherhood Co-President. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 SPIEGEL-Leo, the son of Harry and Sadie Spiegel, and retired president of Harry Spiegel, Inc., died on Monday in New York. He was 89 years old. Mr. Spiegel is survived by his loving and devoted wife, Evelyn of Scarsdale, three sons Robert M. Spiegel of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, Dr. Edward F. 
 WILLIAMS-John Stowell. Age 65. Died Friday, December 22, 2000 at his home in Morristown, Vermont. Born on January 18, 1935 in New Britain, CT, son of Harold North Williams and Evelyn (nee Brooks) Williams. Former associate of Shearman and Sterling Law Firm of New York. Corporate Counsel for
 Rudi Gassner, a former professional soccer player who became one of the world's top music industry executives, died on Saturday, just days before he was to take over BMG Entertainment, the music division of Bertelsmann. He was 58. The cause was a heart attack, BMG executives said. M
 Benjamin Karp, a portrait sculptor whose works have been exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and other major institutions throughout the world, died on Dec. 3 at his home in Hoosick Falls, N.Y. He was 94. Mr. Karp graduated summa cum laude in physics from Syracuse University
 Felix Popper, a conductor who was for many years the music administrator at the New York City Opera, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Popper was born in Vienna in 1908 and earned a doctorate in law and political science from the University of Vienna while also
 Dr. Herman Feshbach, a nuclear physicist who helped develop the theories underlying the behavior of the nuclei of atoms and later became active in the antinuclear movement, died on Friday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass., where he lived. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart fa
 Prof. Louis Leprince-Ringuet, a French nuclear physicist who was the first to spot evidence of a new type of subatomic particle, died Saturday at his home in Paris, just three months shy of his 100th birthday. Professor Leprince-Ringuet was one of the world's leading researchers in 
 BILGREI-Emanuel (Manny). Age 82, passed away December 27. Loving and devoted husband of Carrie Bilgrei, beloved father of Alice (Bilgrei) and Joseph Bresman, Michael and Donna Bilgrei. Cherished grandfather of Rachel, Joshua, Jonathan and Daniel. Founder and former head of Marc Air Conditio
 DWOSKIN-Harry. On December 26th, 2000, at 96 years. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Funeral services are today December 28 at 1 PM, Gramery Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Avenue, NYC. DWOSKIN-Harry. He lived the good life to 96. We mourn him. Eric Gertner, Nina Yahr, and Florence a
 GASSNER-Rudi. The board of directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rudi Gassner, a cherished friend and supporter of our mission. A philanthropic leader and activist, he served with devotion on the executive committee of our Entertainment Division's Music Grou
 GELLERT-Peter Joseph. Died on Dec. 23, 2000 from complications resulting from aplastic anemia. Born on August 6, 1926 to Greta (Petschek) Gellert and Oswald R. Gellert in Prague, Czechoslovakia, he attended The Lawrenceville School, Harvard College, and Yale Law School. He served in the US 
 KING-Sid. Died on Monday, On December 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Clara Greenspan King. Father of Jerry King and Sheila Wank. Grandfather of Matthew and Jonathan Wank, Steffi King Kitzes and Patti King. Great grandfather of Jordan Spencer Wank. He was a former teacher at the Franklin Schoo
 MARCECA-Robert. The partners, associates and staff at Hartman & Craven LLP are profoundly saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Bob Marceca. Bob was a real estate visionary who almost single handedly changed the cooperative/condominium landscape in New York. Working with Bo
 MORGENSTEIN-Isidore. We lost a generous and loyal Board member-friend who, with his beloved Sidi, took care of many Israeli scholarship students. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his family. On behalf of the Board of the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, Vera Stern, President        
 OTTEN-Louis. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of Green Chimneys Children's Services and Green Chimney's School mourn the loss of Judge Louis Otten, our loyal and devoted supporter for over fifty years. Judge Otten, along with his late wife, Margery Levy Otten, served as Board Memb
 ROBARDS-Jason. The Roundabout Theatre Company profoundly mourns the passing of our beloved friend and board member, Jason Robards. His warmth, generous spirit and extraordinary talent were a source of great inspiration and joy to us all. As an actor, he partnered with his dear friend Christ
 SCHILDWACHTER-Hannah B., 93, a long time resident of New Rochelle, died December 27, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of David Carl Schildwachter, Sr. and his wife Wendy, Ann Catherine Brohm, and Martha Louise Schildwachter. Also survived by six grandchildren and five 
 SCHONBAR-Jacques B. (Jack). Of New York City, on December 25, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Hilde Langstadt Schonbar. His family, Rosalea A. Schonbar; Ellen, Neil, Scott and Lindsay Kelliher; Judy, Bruno, and Amie Pistrin will all miss him.       
 SULLIVAN-The Rev. Daniel J. of the Vincentian Community at St. John's University on December 26, 2000. Father was an English Professor at St. John's and Niagara University and also served as Associate Dean of Notre Dame College, Staten Island. Father is survived by his cousins Mary Duigan &
 The Rev. John Wesley Rice Jr., who rose from the segregated South to become a minister and university leader, died on Sunday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 77 and the father of Condoleezza Rice, who was recently selected by President-elect George W. Bush to be his national security adviser.   
 Levi Jackson, a star running back whose selection as Yale's first black football captain in November 1948 drew national attention as a symbol of racial progress in American life, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Detroit. He was 74. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family sai
 BLANCHARD-James A. II. Of Bar Harbor, ME, died in his 90th year on December 21, 2000. Wharton School, class of 1933. Lieutenant, USNR at GHQ Southwest Pacific, 1944; UN Conference in San Francisco, 1945. Member, Society of Mayflower Descendants and Society of Colonial Wars. Survived by wife
 BLAU-Judge Louis. Beloved husband of Gertrude and devoted father to Yosef, Norman and Andrea passed away on December 22, 2000, the first night of Chanukah, at age 93. He will be missed by his five grandchildren and five great grandchildren as well.       
 HUTSCHNECKER-Dr. Arnold A. Died peacefully on December 28, 2000, at his home in Sherman, Connecticut. at age 102. Beloved brother of Greta Hutschnecker Plattry. Loving uncle of Ruth Schwarz, Gaby Spellman, Lauren Hutton, Dorianne Samuels, Dorina Link, Alexander and Wolfgang Zuckerman and gr
 MICHAEL-Fred. We mourn the passing of Fred. Loving husband of Regina. Loving father of Stuart and Bernard. Loving, caring grandfather of Rose, Sara and Shuli. Donations may be made in his memory to Congregation Ahavat Shalom, 315 Madison St, PO Box 220918, Hollywood, FL, 33022. 954-922-4544
 MOSS-Ira. Beloved husband of Doris. Loving father of Rabbi Steven and Judy Moss and Marje and Emil Sobylak. Cherished grandfather of Karl, Anya, Eli and the late Paul. Dear brother of Sanford and the late Roberta. Services Friday 1 pm at Sinai Chapels, 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fres
 NEALS-Huerta C., 86. Doctor for the poor. A Funeral Mass took place for Dr. Huerta C. Neals, on Saturday, December 23, 2000, from the Episcopal Church of the Incarnation, in Jersey City, New Jersey. Dr. Neals who ran a medical practice for the indigent and others in Jersey City for nearly a
 NEWBERGER-Arnold. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Arnold Newberger, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 ROBARDS-Jason, age 78, died on Tuesday, December 26th. Loving and devoted husband of Lois O'Connor Robards and devoted father to Jason Robards III, David Robards, Sam Robards and Jake Robards, Sarah Louise Robards and Shannon Robards. Survived by his brother, Glenn Robards and his sister, L
 WOODCOCK-Wilson W. Died December 16, at 91, after a brief illness. Avid gardener and walker, he taught physics at Hunter College until 1973. Wife Edith, sister Mary Elizabeth, daughters Elspeth and Johanne, sons Bruce and Mark, eight grandsons and a great-grandson will miss him dearly. Serv
 Vincent Palumbo, a fifth-generation Italian stone carver who rose to master carver at the National Cathedral, died Dec. 21 at Washington Hospital Center in Washington. He was 64. A cathedral spokesman said Mr. Palumbo died of complications from amyloidosis, a degenerative condition 
 W. V. Quine, a logician and Harvard philosophy professor whose analysis of language and its relation to reality made him one of the most influential philosophers of the 20th century, died on Monday at a hospital in  Boston, where he lived. He was 92. As a mathematical logician who w
 Dr. George Edward Wantz, a New York surgeon known for his innovative approach to hernia operations, died on Dec. 15 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was complications from a spinal cord injury he had suffered in a fall, his family said. A
 Martin Prinz, who until a few months ago stood watch over the outstanding collection of meteorites accumulated by the American Museum of Natural History, died Dec. 16 at an extended-care center in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. The cause was cancer, the muse
 ASMUS-Philip Patrick. December 28, 2000. Beloved son of the late James & Elizabeth Asmus. Loving brother of James F. Asmus. Devoted uncle of Patricia Huber, Stephen and James J. Asmus. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madision Ave. and 81st Street, Tuesday, January 2nd, 7-9PM. Ma
 GEARHART-Robert P., MD. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their sorrow at the passing of Robert P. Gearhart, MD, a distinguished member of the Pulmonary Section for 45 years and its Chief from 1964 to 1968. A distinguished and dedicated physician, he exe
 WARNKE-Philip C., age 59. Beloved husband of Lynne. Loving & devoted father of David and Craig. He lived every day with an unwavering passion in his heart and a smile on his face. He will be missed but never forgotten by all who knew him. The viewing will be held on Monday, January 1st, 200
 WOTMAN-Paul Freud. Born July 14, 1951, Bastille Day, in New York. Died Dec. 25th, 2000 in San Francisco. He faced a year-long battle against Lymphoma with much courage & dignity. Paul graduated from Columbia University and Boalt Hall Law School in Berkeley, CA. He broke ground in anti-discr
 ZAND-H. Herman. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center mourn the sudden passing of H. Herman Zand, a distinguished member of the Board. A man of intellect and principle, Hy faithfully served the Medical Center for 23 years as a member of the Board. He was an accomplished attorne
 Sam Savitt, a prolific freelance artist, author and illustrator who specialized in depicting horses, died on Monday at his home in North Salem, N.Y. He was 83. For more than a half-century, Mr. Savitt painted and drew horses in oil and with watercolors, charcoal, ink and other media
 Stanley Blacker, a prominent maker of men's clothing who stitched his name to labels sold at upscale department stores across the country and overseas, died Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 79 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cancer co
 ASMUS-Philip Patrick. December 28, 2000. Beloved son of the late James & Elizabeth Asmus. Loving brother of James F. Asmus. Devoted uncle of Patricia Huber, Stephen and James J. Asmus. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madision Ave. and 81st Street, Tuesday, January 2nd, 7-9PM. Ma
 BRANDMARK - Milton. Passed away December 28, 2000. Devoted and caring husband, father, brother and friend. We will all miss him. Services Tuesday, January 2, 2001. 10 AM at Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho, Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I.       
 DOERFLINGER-William M. Died on Saturday, December 23, 2000, at Fellowship Village in Basking Ridge, NJ. He was 90. Born in New York City, he was a longtime resident of Convent Station before moving to Fellowship Village in 1999. In World War II he served in North Africa and Italy in the Off
 GEARHART-Robert Paul, M.D. An attending physician at Lenox Hill Hospital for forty-five years, he died on December 27th, 2000 at the Piedmont Retirement Center in Thomasville, N.C. He was 88 years old. Golda, his wife of 60 years, was at his side. Born in Montoursville, PA., he received a d
 GOLDSTEIN-Matthew. NYU Medical Center mourns the passing of Matthew Goldstein, a longtime friend and benefactor of pediatrics at Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine and Tisch Hospital. Through his leadership of the Intimate Apparel Square Club and through his generous spirit, Matty wo
 HUTSCHNECKER-Dr. Arnold A. Died peacefully on December 28, 2000, at his home in Sherman, Connecticut. at age 102. Beloved brother of Greta Hutschnecker Plattry. Loving uncle of Ruth Schwarz, Gaby Spellman, Lauren Hutton, Dorianne Samuels, Dorina Link, Alexander and Wolfgang Zuckerman, Ronal
 JOHNSON-Clifford. Age 79, died on December 17 in his Manhattan home. He will be deeply missed by his wife, Gayle. An admired oil painter who explored themes of light, movement and organic form, his work is represented in many private and corporate collections. Memorial service at the Brick 
 KAMINSKY-Wallace. Architect. Collector. Life long and passionate New Yorker. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Columbia University School of Architecture, Wally practiced in Manhattan for forty years. He specialized in projects for educational institutions and for organizations serving low
 LIEBERMAN-Steve. We mourn the loss of a true gentleman and wonderful human being. We extend our condolences to his wife Carolyn and the entire Lieberman family. Elaine and Julie Litvack       
 LOCHRIDGE-Wilson W., age 77. Died suddenly Friday, December 1, 2000. in Aptos, California. He was born in Chicago, Illinois and grew up in Evanston, Illinois. Married for 51 years to his wife, Marjorie P. Lochridge, he raised his family in Winnetka, Illinois. He and his wife later moved to 
 MERRITT-Francis Sumner, 87. Died Dec. 27, 2000. An innovative educator and visual artist, who as founding director of the Haystack Mountain School of Crafts, Deer Isle, ME, from 1951-1977, created an international community of craftmakers. A painter and print maker, his work was exhibited a
 MITCHELL-Stephen A. The faculty, graduates and candidates of the Institute for the Psychoanalytic Study of Subjectivity grieve the devastating loss of the incomparable Steve Mitchell. Those graced by his brilliance as teacher and generous colleague experienced first hand his intellectual el
 MOSS-Alan M. Beloved husband of Janet and the late Florence. Devoted father of Maggie and Jacob Rand, Patricia and Robert MossVreeland. Loving grandfather of Freya, Gabriel, Etan, Forrest, Elie and Jonah. Dear stepfather of Ann and Oscar. Service Tuesday, 10 AM, Plaza Memorial, 91st St. and
 Ronald G. Pisano, a curator, art historian and collector and an authority on the work of the 19th-century American painter William Merritt Chase, died on Dec. 11 in Manhattan. He was 51 and had homes in New York City and Southampton, N.Y. He died of esophageal cancer, said Fred Bake
