 Clive Bradley, whose arrangements for steel-drum orchestras in Trinidad and New York City won championships from 1970 to 2005, died on Saturday in Port of Spain, Trinidad. He was 69. He died four days after a stroke, said Rawlston Charles, who owns the store and record label Charlie
 Lewis J. Horowitz, who helped usher in a new wave of high-octane financial trading as chairman of the New York Futures Exchange, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was gall bladder
 Dr. Thomas Royle Dawber, who led the revolutionary Framingham Heart Study that identified the major risk factors for heart disease, died Nov. 23 in Naples, Fla. He was 92. He had Alzheimer's disease and was at a long-term care center, said his daughter, Dr. Nancy H. Dawber. 
 Frederic B. Vogel, the founder of the Commercial Theater Institute, a teaching program for prospective Broadway producers, and a longtime expert on theater management, died on Tuesday night at his home in New York. He was in his 70's, but his family could not provide an exact age. T
 Michael A. W. Evans, a photographer whose picture of Ronald Reagan in a well-worn cowboy hat was on the covers of Time, Newsweek and People after Mr. Reagan's death last year, died yesterday at his home in Atlanta. He was 61. The cause was cancer, the National Press Photographers As
 Cornell H. Mayer, a pioneer in radio astronomy who found the first signs of searingly hot temperatures on the surface of Venus, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 83. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Carey Whitehead Mayer. Af
 Peter D. Eimas, a Brown University scientist who found that babies can distinguish different sounds of speech as early as their first month and published his findings in a groundbreaking study explaining how infants acquire language, died Oct. 28 at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 70.  
 Franz Jolowicz, the owner of the former Discophile record shop, a Greenwich Village institution that was for decades a mecca for classical record collectors, from the ardent to the insatiable to the merely obsessive, died on Nov. 8 at his home in the Village. He was 86. The cause wa
 Msgr. Frederick R. McManus, a retired dean of canon law at Catholic University of America who helped draft revisions to the Roman Catholic liturgy at the Second Vatican Council in the 1960's, died Nov. 27 in Boston. He was 82 and lived at the Boston archdiocesan retirement home, Regina Cler
 Howard B. Gotlieb, a Boston University archivist who cajoled, charmed, wheedled and -- most effectively, he said -- groveled to snare the papers of notables like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Bette Davis, not to mention Fred Astaire's dancing shoes, died Thursday at a Boston hospi
 Col. Reginald R. Myers, a retired Marine Corps officer who was awarded the Medal of Honor for leading an assault up an icy Korean hill in late 1950, died Oct. 23 in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 85 and had lived in Jupiter, Fla. His death was confirmed on the Web site of the corps' H
 Herbert L. Strock, a television producer and director who directed B-movies like ''I Was a Teenage Frankenstein,'' ''How to Make a Monster'' and ''The Crawling Hand,'' died here on Wednesday. He was 87. The cause was heart failure after a car accident, according to his daughter, Les
 Liu Binyan, the forceful dissident writer who repeatedly exposed official corruption and openly challenged the Chinese Communist Party to reform itself before and after he was exiled to the United States in the late 1980's, died Monday. He was 80 years old and lived in East Windsor,
 Peter Edgar Haas Sr., who with his brother Walter engineered the explosive growth of the family business, Levi Strauss, into the world's biggest maker of brand-name jeans, died Saturday at his home in San Francisco. He was 86. His death was announced by Levi Strauss & Company, which
 Frederik Jacques Philips, the former president of the Dutch electronics giant that bears his family's name, who was credited with saving hundreds of Jews during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands in World War II, died on Monday. He was 100. The cause was pneumonia and complicati
 George F. Baker III, the retired financier who has been lost since last Thursday, when the small plane he was flying disappeared off Nantucket, and is now presumed to be dead, was the senior trustee of the George F. Baker Trust, a family philanthropy. Mr. Baker was 66 and lived in Houston, 
 Edward L. Masry, a flamboyantly pugnacious lawyer who won millions from a utility in a toxic pollution suit and was portrayed by the actor Albert Finney in the 2000 movie ''Erin Brockovich,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 73. The cause was complication
 Vice Adm. Frederick L. Ashworth, a Navy weapons specialist who was the crewman in control of the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, in World War II's climactic strike, died Saturday at a hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 93 and lived in Santa Fe, N.M. The cause was complicat
 Harold D. Shapiro, a partner in the law firm of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal and its first chairman, died last Thursday in Evanston, Ill. He was 78 and lived in Wilmette, Ill. His death was announced on the Web site of the firm. The cause was a ruptured aneurysm. Mr. Shapir
 Bud Carson, the renowned National Football League strategist who devised the Pittsburgh Steelers' Steel Curtain defenses of the 1970's, died Wednesday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 75. The cause was emphysema, his wife, Linda, said. In a quarter-century as a defensive
 , the fashion director of Bloomingdale's, whose instinct for trends was so keen and enthusiasm for promotion so vigorous that he frequently upstaged even his more famous designers, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications 
 Robert Sheckley, a writer of science fiction whose disarmingly playful stories pack a nihilistic subtext, died yesterday in Poughkeepsie. He was 77 and lived in Red Hook, N.Y. The cause was complications of a brain aneurysm, said his former wife, Ziva Kwitney. Mr. Sheckley wrote mor
 Roger Shattuck, a polyglot scholar and writer whose many subjects ranged from the emergence of modernism to whether some knowledge might be too dangerous to know, died on Thursday at his home in Lincoln, Vt. He was 82. The cause was prostate cancer, his daughter Patricia said.      
 Tommy Hanneford of the Royal Hanneford Circus, known as ''the funniest man on horseback,'' died here on Monday. He was 78. His death followed a short illness, said his wife, Gertrude, who was also co-owner and a producer of the circus, which they formed with Mr. Hanneford's sister i
 Artine Artinian, a noted manuscript collector and scholar of French literature who was immortalized as a fictional character by two of the most prominent American writers of the 20th century, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Lantana, Fla. He was 97 and had lived for many years in Palm Beach. 
 Eugene J. McCarthy, the sardonic Senate dove who stunned the nation by upending President Lyndon B. Johnson's re-election drive amid the Vietnam War turmoil of 1968, died early yesterday. He was 89. A courtly, sharp-witted presence in capital politics for half a century, Mr. McCarth
 Richard Pryor, the iconoclastic standup comedian who transcended barriers of race and brought a biting, irreverent humor into America's living rooms, movie houses, clubs and concert halls, died Saturday. He was 65. Mr. Pryor, who had been ill with multiple sclerosis, suffered a hear
 Bob Richardson, a fashion photographer of the 1960's and 70's who transmitted the excitements and regrets of a generation of free spirits before disappearing into a shadow land of mental illness and homelessness, died on Dec. 5 at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. He died of natural
 Donald Martino, the Pulitzer Prizewinning American composer widely respected for atonal works that combine intellectual rigor with expressive freedom, died on Thursday aboard a cruise ship in the Caribbean en route to Antigua. He was 74. The cause was cardiac arrest following compli
 Eugene J. McCarthy, the sardonic Senate dove who stunned the nation by upending President Lyndon B. Johnson's re-election drive amid the Vietnam War turmoil of 1968, died early Saturday. He was 89. A courtly, sharp-witted presence in capital politics for half a century, Mr. McCarthy
 Richard Pryor, the iconoclastic standup comedian who transcended barriers of race and brought a biting, irreverent humor into America's living rooms, movie houses, clubs and concert halls, died Saturday. He was 65. Mr. Pryor, who had been ill with multiple sclerosis, suffered a hear
 Ernest Schwiebert, an architect and planner whose lifelong passion for fishing led him to write influential books on piscatorial matters like how trout perceive insects -- all the better to make lures to catch them -- died on Saturday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 74. The ca
 Gyorgy Sandor, a pianist who studied with Bartok and remained a champion of his music throughout a long career as a performer and teacher, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Michael Sandor. Mr. Sandor was born in Bu
 Harold Raymond Newman, former chairman of Public Employment Relations Board of New York State and a behind-the-scenes catalyst in many labor negotiations with public employees, died on Nov. 25 in West Palm Beach, Fla. A resident of Lake Worth, Fla., he was 84 and formerly lived in Albany.  
 Dr. Morton Birnbaum, a physician, lawyer and mental health advocate who worked to establish and expand rights for mentally ill patients, died on Nov. 26 at Cabrini Medical Center in New York. He was 79 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. The cause was a stroke, his family said. D
 Robert F. Newmyer, a prominent independent-film producer whose credits include ''sex, lies and videotape'' and the ''Santa Clause'' movies, died on Monday while on location in Toronto. He was 49 and had homes in Los Angeles and Telluride, Colo. Mr. Newmyer, a lifelong asthma suffere
 Anthony C. Russo, a former director of labor relations for the City of New York, died last Thursday in Queens. He was 88 and lived in Flushing, Queens. His death was announced by the Quinn-Fogarty Funeral Home in Flushing. Mr. Russo entered the civil service through the exam
 Heinz Heinemann, an industrial chemist who helped develop methods of transforming coal and natural gas into gasoline, died on Nov. 23 at a hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 92. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Heinemann, a specialist in preparing chemical cata
 John Langstaff, who founded the ''Christmas Revels,'' the long-running seasonal pageant of traditional music, dance and theater that plays in Boston, New York and other cities around the country, died on Tuesday in Basel, Switzerland. He was 84. The cause was a stroke, said Alan Cas
 Dr. William G. Speed III, a physician and researcher at Johns Hopkins who helped establish migraines and other severe headaches as legitimate medical disorders and developed medicines to treat them, died on Nov. 15 at Greater Baltimore Medical Center. He was 87. The cause was conges
 William Proxmire, a political maverick during 32 years in the Senate who crusaded against government waste and irritated presidents and lawmakers from both parties because of his contempt for the mutual back-scratching most politicians engage in, died yesterday in Sykesville, Md., about 40 
 James Ingo Freed, an architect and partner of I. M. Pei, whose own buildings ranged from the provocatively somber United States Holocaust Memorial Museum to the sprawling crystal palace of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, died Thursday at his home on Gramercy Park in Manhattan. He was
 John Spencer, the Emmy Award-winning actor who played the shrewd, craggy White House chief of staff on the NBC drama ''The West Wing,'' died yesterday morning in Los Angeles, four days before his 59th birthday. He had a heart attack Thursday night and was taken to Olympia Medical Ce
 Rodney Whitaker, a writer best known by one of his many pen names, Trevanian, who was the only writer of airport paperbacks to be compared to Zola, Ian Fleming, Poe and Chaucer, died on Wednesday in the West Country of England. He was 74. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary 
 Jack Anderson, whose investigative column once appeared in more than 1,000 newspapers with 40 million readers, won a Pulitzer Prize and prompted J. Edgar Hoover to call him ''lower than the regurgitated filth of vultures,'' died yesterday. He was 83. The cause was Parkinson's diseas
 Marvin A. Schwam, who made it a year-round business to prepare for Christmas -- and Hanukkah and Kwanzaa -- as the founder of American Christmas Decorations Inc., died on Dec. 10 at his home in the Chelsea neighborhood in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was bladder cancer, said his 
 Robert B. Luce, a former editor and publisher of The New Republic who founded his own book publishing house, died on Nov. 29 in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 83. He died in a nursing home, his family said. Mr. Luce, known as Bob, began his career working for magazines, taking over at The 
 Sydney Leff, a commercial artist who was almost certainly the last surviving illustrator of sheet music from the golden age of Tin Pan Alley, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 104 and had lived for many years in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Leff's son-in-law Alfred M
 T. Edward Hambleton, the gentlemanly theatrical producer who was a founder of the Phoenix Theater, the trailblazing Off Broadway institution that helped develop the careers of actors, writers and directors for three decades, died on Saturday night in Baltimore. He was 94 and lived in Cockey
 Tahsin Ozguc, an eminent Turkish archaeologist whose digs in Anatolia documented the intermingling of Bronze Age cultures and commerce in what is now central Turkey, died on Oct. 28 in Ankara. He was 89. His death was announced on the Web site of Ankara University, but was only rece
 Barry Halper, who began collecting autographs as an 8-year-old hanging around the Yankees' minor league ballpark in Newark and went on to assemble the nation's most acclaimed private collection of baseball memorabilia, died Sunday at a hospital in Livingston, N.J. Mr. Halper, who lived in N
 Miller Upton, who during 21 years as president of Beloit College found innovative and widely imitated ways to maximize the college's educational and financial resources, died yesterday at his home in Fontana, Wis. He was 88. The college, in Beloit, Wis., announced his death.        
 Vincent Gigante, who feigned mental illness for decades to camouflage his position as one of the nation's most influential and dangerous Mafia leaders, died yesterday at the United States Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Mo. He was 77. Mr. Gigante was serving a 1
 Alan Shields, whose radiantly colored, sewing-machine stitched, three-dimensional paintings made him prominent in the New York art world of the 1970's, died on Tuesday at his home on Shelter Island, New York. He was 61. Mr. Shields was being treated for emphysema and died in his sle
 Swami Jagdishwaranand, a prominent Hindu spiritual leader in New York City who was responsible for establishing several temples here, died last Thursday at the Geeta Temple in Elmhurst, Queens. The swami, who founded the temple more than 30 years ago and made his home there, was 71.        
 William J. Oswald, a scientist who pioneered ways to use algae to address immense human problems -- including treating sewage, increasing food supplies, generating energy and facilitating voyages into deep space -- died on Dec. 8 at his home in Concord, Calif. He was 86. The cause w
 Don Caswell, a veteran copy editor in the culture, style and foreign news departments of The New York Times, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 65. The cause was complications of emphysema, said his brother-in-law, Dale Franz. Mr. Caswell, who joined the 
 Jim Ostendarp, who coached at Amherst for 33 years and once held the record for most coaching victories in the history of New England small-college football, died Dec. 15 at the Soldier's Home in Holyoke, Mass. He was 82. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his fam
 John D. Laupheimer, who oversaw the virtual doubling of players' earnings as commissioner of the Ladies Professional Golf Association during the 1980's amid inroads from a newly popular senior men's tour, died Monday in London, where he had lived for the past year. He was 75. The ca
 Joseph L. Owades, a biochemist whose recipe for a light beer, among other contributions to the science of brewing, made him a leader in the industry, died Friday at his home in Sonoma, Calif. He was 86 and also had a home in San Francisco. The cause was heart failure, his family sai
 Charles F. Cummings, the official historian of Newark, whose encyclopedic knowledge of the city and its environs took in everything from the name of the first municipal commissioner of shade trees to the fact that a mayonnaise factory once graced the shores of the Passaic River, died in the
 Ted Tulchin, a businessman and theatrical producer, died on Monday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Floral Park. His death was announced by the League of American Theaters and Producers. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Most rece
 David Patterson, a scholar of Jewish life in Europe who established a center for Hebrew and Jewish studies at Oxford University to help revive a discipline that had been virtually destroyed during the Holocaust, died at a hospital in Oxford on Dec. 10. He was 83. The cause was prost
 Elrod Hendricks, who spent nearly four decades with the Orioles as a catcher and coach and came to be revered in Baltimore for his community work and his bonds with the fans, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Glen Burnie, Md., a day before his 65th birthday. The cause was a hear
 Albert L. Weimorts, a civilian engineer for the Air Force who conceived and designed some of the biggest, most powerful nonnuclear bombs ever made, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Fort Walton Beach, Fla. He was 67. The cause was brain cancer, his son Todd said. In 2003, i
 Eliot Freidson, a sociologist at New York University who studied the inner workings of society's professions, particularly the way doctors are organized to practice medicine, died on Dec. 14 in a hospice in San Francisco. He was 82. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family s
 Dr. Herman Roiphe, a psychoanalyst who explored the notion of sexual identity in early childhood development, died on Dec. 14 in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Working with another researcher, Dr. Eleanor Galenson, Dr. Roiphe (pronounced ROY-fee
 John Diebold, a visionary thinker whose early and persistent promotion of computers and other far-reaching innovations helped shape industrial development in America and beyond, died yesterday at his home in Bedford Hills, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his ne
 Kerry Packer, who became Australia's richest man by turning a magazine and television inheritance worth millions into a diverse business worth billions, died yesterday in Sydney. He was 68. His death was reported by his family. The Associated Press reported Mr. Packer had been plagu
 Norman Vaughan, a legendary Alaskan explorer and dog sled racer, and the last surviving member of Adm. Richard E. Byrd's expedition to Antarctica in 1928-30, died Friday at a hospital in Anchorage. He was 100. The death was confirmed by the Providence Alaska Medical Center. 
 Dr. Charles W. Socarides, a well-known psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who maintained publicly, long after it was considered scientifically acceptable to do so, that homosexuality was a condition amenable to treatment and even to conversion to heterosexuality, died on Sunday at Metropolitan 
 John H. Herz, a scholar of international relations and law and a professor emeritus of government at City College, died on Monday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 97. The death was announced by Thomas G. Karis, a friend and colleague. Dr. Herz focused his studies and wr
 Charles Engell France, a writer on dance, a collector and the influential assistant to Mikhail Baryshnikov when he was artistic director of American Ballet Theater in the 1980's, died on Sunday. He was 59. Mr. France collapsed in his apartment building on the Upper West Side of Manh
 Donald S. Dawson, who as a presidential aide marshaled Harry S. Truman's crucial whistle-stop tour in the 1948 election campaign and who later had a long career as a Washington lawyer, died on Sunday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 97. The death was announced by his family.     
 Richard L. Grimsdale, an electrical engineer who colleagues said built the first transistorized computer, died Dec. 6 at his home in Brighton, England. He was 76. The cause was a heart infection, according to his wife, Shirley Roberts Grimsdale. The transistor, which was inv
 Derek Bailey, the English guitarist who helped to form a fractured style and a cohesive philosophy for European free improvisation, died at his home in London on Sunday. He was 75. The cause was complications of a motor neuron disease, said Martin Davidson, a record producer and fri
 William W. Howells, a leading physical anthropologist who focused on the origins of humans and the evolution of races, died on Dec. 20 at his home in Kittery Point, Me. He was 97. The death was announced by his family. Professor Howells, emeritus professor of anthropology at
 George O'Brien, who as design director of Tiffany & Company brought modern designers like Elsa Peretti into its fold and who as home furnishings editor of The New York Times edited its first book on home design, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78. The c
 John Druze, the last surviving member of Fordham University's football offensive line of the 1930's known as the Seven Blocks of Granite, died Tuesday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 91. His death was announced by Fordham. During the 1920's, Notre Dame's line was dubbed the Seve
