 Alan M. Voorhees, a prominent transportation engineer and city planner whose work helped give rise to the Interstate highway system in the United States, died on Dec. 18 in Richmond, Va. Mr. Voorhees, who was also an entrepreneur and philanthropist, was 83 and made his home in Alexandria, V
 Julius Wile, a noted wine importer and educator, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 91. His death followed a long illness, according to his son, Andrew. Mr. Wile's life centered on food and wine. Until he retired in 1978 as co-chief executive officer of Ju
 Truman K. Gibson Jr., who fought racial discrimination in the Army in World War II as a high-level adviser in the War Department and later became a powerful pro boxing promoter, died Dec. 23 in Chicago. He was 93. His death was announced by Unity Funeral Parlors of Chicago. 
 Frank Wilkinson, a Los Angeles housing official who lost his job in the Red Scare of the early 1950's and later became one of the last two people jailed for refusing to tell the House Un-American Activities Committee whether he was a Communist, died Monday in Los Angeles. He was 91.        
 Sheik Maktoum bin Rashid al-Maktoum, emir of Dubai and prime minister and vice president of the United Arab Emirates, died Wednesday in Australia. He was 62. No official cause of death was given, but Australian and Arab news media reported that he had suffered heart problems. His bo
 Emmett Leith, a scientist who took the concept of the hologram and added the technology of the laser to help create three-dimensional photography, died on Dec. 23 at a hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 78. The cause was an internal hemorrhage, said Kim Leith, his daughter.        
 Enrico Di Giuseppe, an American tenor who sang for many years with both the New York City and Metropolitan Operas, died on Dec. 31 in Voorhees, N.J. He was 73. The cause was small cell cancer, said his wife, Lorna. With his light and ringing voice and a notable upper extensi
 Frank T. Cary, the chairman and chief executive of International Business Machines during the tumultuous 1970's when I.B.M. confronted antitrust lawsuits, rising competition from Japanese manufacturers and the dawn of the personal computer, died Sunday. He was 85. He died of unknown
 Barry Cowsill, a member of the popular 1960's and early 70's singing family the Cowsills, was identified Tuesday as among the dead nearly four months after he disappeared when Hurricane Katrina flooded this city. He was 51. Mr. Cowsill's body, recovered Dec. 28 from the Chartres Str
 Hugh Thompson, an Army helicopter pilot who rescued Vietnamese civilians during the My Lai massacre, reported the killings to his superior officers in a rage over what he had seen, testified at the inquiries and received a commendation from the Army three decades later, died yesterday in Al
 Lou Rawls, the smooth-voiced, enduring singing star whose career traced a line from gospel to jazz and pop, died early yesterday morning at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his longtime manager and publicist, David Brokaw. Suc
 Rod Dedeaux, who coached the University of Southern California to a record 11 College World Series championships and sent some 60 players to the major leagues, died Thursday in Glendale, Calif. He was 91. The cause was complications of a stroke, U.S.C. said. Dedeaux took the
 Yao Wenyuan, the last surviving member of China's notorious Gang of Four, the powerful group that was blamed for many of the excesses of the Cultural Revolution, died Dec. 23, according to the official New China News Agency. He was 74. The government did not immediately issue a stat
 Archbishop Abuna Yesehaq Mandefro, a leader in the diaspora of the Orthodox Church of Ethiopia who, caught up in the political upheaval at home in the 1990's, split his congregations in the Americas from the mother church in Addis Ababa, died on Dec. 29 in Newark. He was 72 and lived in Uni
 Raoul Bott, a mathematician who made innovative contributions to differential geometry and topology, a field that examines the properties of spaces, died on Dec. 20 in Carlsbad, Calif. He was 82. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Although he began his career studyi
 David E. Rosenbaum, a retired reporter and editor for The New York Times who for more than 35 years wrote about the intersection of politics, economics and government policy with uncommon depth, clarity and a keen eye for the story behind the story, died Sunday. He was 63. His death
 Donald A. Mackay, an artist and illustrator best known for drawing the evolution of Manhattan, died on Dec. 17 in Frederick, Md., where he retired in 1993. He was 91 and formerly lived in Ossining, N.Y. The cause was heart disease, his family said. Mr. Mackay crowned a long 
 Harry Magdoff, who fell in love with Marxist thought at 15 and became an influential socialist economist, author, editor and commentator -- and, some said, a Soviet spy -- died on Jan. 1 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 92. His son, Frederick, announced the death. Mr. M
 The Rev. Jon de Cortina Garaigorta, a Jesuit priest who dedicated the last decade to searching for the missing children of El Salvador's brutal civil war, died in mid-December, officials of his organization said Wednesday. He was 71. They said the cause was complications of a stroke
 Theodore H. Bullock, who made wide-ranging studies of sensory and nervous systems in fish and invertebrates and then used his research to explore the evolution of the brain in animals, died on Dec. 20 in San Diego. He was 90. His family confirmed the death. From 1966 to 1982
 William H. Guthman, a prominent antiques dealer who specialized in items of historical and military Americana and helped make them stars of the collecting world, died on Dec. 28 at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Elizabeth Stillinger.
 William F. Haxby, who created the first maps of the ocean floor to be based on satellite measurements of the water's surface and became a master at translating complicated marine data into comprehensible visual displays, died on Wednesday at his home in Westwood, N.J. He was 56. The
 Armand P. Bartos, an architect and philanthropist who, with his wife, Celeste, supported major New York City cultural institutions, died at his home in Manhattan on Dec. 29. He was 95. His death followed several years of illness, said his son Armand Jr. Mr. Bartos's most sig
 Heinrich Harrer, a swashbuckling explorer who told of his magical life of conquering the world's highest peaks and tutoring the young Dalai Lama when Tibet seemed as exotic as Mars, only to have news of his Nazi past mar his final years, died Jan. 7 in Friesach, Austria. He was 93. 
 David S. Kruidenier, a former publisher of The Des Moines Register who devoted much of his post-newspaper career to revitalizing downtown Des Moines, died on Monday in Des Moines. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Kruidenier was a member of the Cowles 
 G. Blakemore Evans, an eminent Elizabethan scholar and editor of the Shakespearean canon, foremost the ''Riverside Shakespeare,'' died on Dec. 23 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 93. The cause was complications of a stroke, said Prof. John J. Tobin, a longtime collaborator. Dr
 Jack Snow, an outstanding receiver for the Los Angeles Rams for more than a decade and a longtime radio analyst for the Rams franchise, died Monday at a hospital in St. Louis. He was 62. The cause was complications of a staph infection, the Rams said. Snow had double hip replacement
 Dr. Ira B. Black, a neuroscientist and brain researcher who became an early advocate for stem cell research and a founder of the Stem Cell Institute of New Jersey, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 64. The cause was an infection related to a tumor, his family sai
 Sidney E. Frank, who was forced to leave Brown University as a freshman when his money ran out, went on to concoct spectacularly successful marketing campaigns for Jägermeister liqueur and Grey Goose vodka, then became so rich he gave Brown its biggest gift ever, died Tuesday in San Diego.
 Hubert J. P. Schoemaker, a founder and former president of one of the nation's first biotechnology companies, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Paoli, Pa. He was 55. The cause was brain cancer, said his stepson, Jonathan Saruk. Mr. Schoemaker helped start Centocor, which is best
 Irving Layton, a Canadian poet as quirky as he was prolific, died on Jan. 4 in Montreal. He was 93. The death was announced on his Web site, www.irvinglayton.com. Press reports from Montreal said the cause was Alzheimer's disease, diagnosed in 1994. Foreign-born, though bare
 Marshall A. Robinson, former president of the Russell Sage Foundation in New York, died on Saturday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 83, and died after a long illness, his family said. After a career in academia and with the Ford Foundation, Dr. Robinson headed the 
 Mimmo Rotella, the Italian artist who was one of the last surviving members of the influential French Nouveaux Réalistes group, died on Sunday in Milan. He was 87. His death followed several months of illness, said his wife, Inna Rotella. Mr. Rotella was best known for coll
 Eldon Dedini, a cartoonist who concocted a mythical world of satyrs and nymphs for Playboy and another of quirky, sophisticated wit for The New Yorker, died Thursday at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 84. The cause was esophageal cancer, his son, Giulio, said. Mr. Dedini d
 Elliot Forbes, a retired Harvard University professor of music whose revision of ''Thayer's Life of Beethoven'' became a pillar of Beethoven scholarship, died at his home in Cambridge, Mass., on Tuesday, family members said. He was 88. A much-loved fixture on the campus, Mr. Forbes 
 Frank Okamura, who came to New York City as a gardener after his release from a wartime internment camp in California and ended up contributing to the spread of Japanese cultural influences in America as a bonsai master, restaurant owner and even as a landlord, died on Monday at his home in
 Bradford Cannon, a Boston physician and pioneer in reconstructive plastic surgery who applied path-breaking medical techniques to advance skin grafting, especially in cases involving serious burns, died on Dec. 20 at his daughter's home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 98. The cause was pne
 Sheik Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah, the soft-spoken emir of Kuwait who ruled the oil-rich country for 28 years through the tumult of the Iranian revolution, the Iran-Iraq war and the invasion of Kuwait by Saddam Hussein's armies in 1990, died early Sunday morning, the Kuwaiti Royal Court announc
 Milton Himmelfarb, a leading essayist for Commentary and other publications who was known for his well wrought and witty observations on Jewish affairs, died on Jan. 4 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in White Plains. The cause was complica
 Bob Weinstock, who founded the independent jazz record label Prestige in 1949 and ran it for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at a hospice in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 77 and lived in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He died of complications of diabetes, said his daughter-in-law, Barbara Wei
 J. Donald Rauth, a former chairman of the Martin Marietta Corporation, which through a merger became part of the Lockheed Martin Corporation, died on Dec. 28 in Washington. He was 87 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Rauth (pron
 Eric Namesnik, who won silver medals in swimming in the 1992 and 1996 Olympics and became a coach of several Olympians, died Wednesday at a hospital in Ypsilanti, Mich., four days after he was critically injured in an automobile accident on an icy road. He was 35 and lived in Saline, Mich. 
 Leon Lobel, a fourth-generation butcher and part owner of his family's business, the Upper East Side butcher shop Lobel's Prime Meats, died on Tuesday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 77. The cause was apparently a heart attack, his son, Evan Lobel, said. During the pa
 The emir of Kuwait, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah, a low-key ruler who helped guide his people through the long days when Iraqi's military occupied, looted and ransacked their small, oil-rich nation, died Sunday morning after a long illness, the Kuwaiti royal court announced. He was 79.    
 Philip Ressner, a retired book editor and the author of half a dozen successful children's books, died on Dec. 27 at Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 83. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Ressner worked as a subway motorman before he broke into editing.
 Col. Edward N. Hall, an engineer who as an intelligence officer scrutinized the V-2 rockets of Nazi Germany and went on to supervise programs leading to the development of the United States' intercontinental ballistic missiles, including the Minuteman, died on Jan. 15 in Torrance, Calif. He
 Edwin S. Cohen, a nationally prominent tax expert and lawyer who helped formulate the tax programs of the Nixon administration, died on Thursday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 91. The death was announced by his family. Working as an associate in the firm of Sulli
 Henry George Fischer, the Metropolitan Museum of Art curator who helped the Temple of Dendur find a new life in New York as a focal point of the museum, died on Dec. 11 in Newtown, Pa., where he had moved from Sherman, Conn., in 2003. He was 82. The death was announced by his family
 Fred K. Hoehler Jr., a pioneer in labor education and the founding director of the George Meany Center for Labor Studies of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., forerunner of the National Labor College in Maryland, died on Jan. 4 in Bellingham, Wash. He was 87. His death was announced by his family. 
 Jim Gary, an internationally noted sculptor in metal whose best-known work transformed the skeletons of derelict cars into the hulking, playful and surprisingly graceful skeletons of dinosaurs, died on Saturday in Freehold, N.J. He was 66 and lived in Farmingdale, N.J. The cause was
 Thomas A. Murphy, who led General Motors for most of the 1970's, died Wednesday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 90. His death was announced by General Motors. Mr. Murphy began his career at G.M. as a clerk in the controller's office after he graduated from college 
 Gideon A. Rodan, a biomedical researcher who studied the destruction and formation of bone cells in important work used to develop treatments for osteoporosis and bone loss, died Jan. 1 at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Rodan
 Wilson Pickett, the soul music pioneer whose insistent wail turned songs like ''In the Midnight Hour'' into hits, died yesterday in Virginia. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, Margo Lewis, his manager, said. She added that Mr. Pickett had spent the twilight of his career play
 Stanley H. Biber, a small-town Colorado doctor who for decades was internationally renowned as the dean of sex-change surgery, died on Monday at a hospital in Pueblo. He was 82 and lived in Hoehne, Colo. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his secretary, Marie Pacino.    
 Dr. Richard Bellucci, a New York ear surgeon who invented an early instrument for microsurgery that is still in use, died on Dec. 22 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 91 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The death was announced by his family. Dr. Bellucci
 Stephen Papich, a former Hollywood choreographer and stage producer and a biographer of Josephine Baker, died on Dec. 16 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his companion, Robert Wood, said. As a contract choreographer at 20th Century Fox in the wani
 Ibrahim Rugova, the leader of the United Nations-administered Serbian province of Kosovo, died Saturday. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, a statement issued by the presidency said Saturday. Mr. Rugova encompassed the hopes of nearly two million Kosovo Albanians in their
 William Rubin, an art historian and curator who, as director of the Museum of Modern Art's prestigious department of painting and sculpture, played a crucial role in defining the museum's character, collections and exhibitions in the 1970's and 80's, died on Sunday at his weekend home in Po
 David Weber, a clarinetist, who was one of the last remaining links to the pioneers of American woodwind-playing and went on to become a master teacher, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 92. His son Michael Weber announced the death. He had continued 
 Allan Temko, a former architecture critic for The San Francisco Chronicle, who won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism in 1990 and wrote a definitive profile of the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris, died on Wednesday in Orinda, Calif. He was 81. He died after a brief illness, his family 
 Richard W. Couper, a prominent foundation executive who was the first full-time president of the New York Public Library, died on Wednesday at a hospital in New Hartford, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Clinton, N.Y. He died after a long illness, according to a spokesman for his alma ma
 Dunbar W. Bostwick, a sportsman who bred and campaigned many winning trotters, founded racetracks and pioneered new gadgets and training techniques for harness racing, died on Wednesday at his home in Shelburne, Vt. He was 98. His death was announced by Christopher W. Davis, a grand
 Arthur T. von Mehren, a leading American scholar of international law at Harvard, died on Jan. 16 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 83. His death was announced by Harvard Law School, where he had a teaching career of more than 50 years. The cause was pneumonia, said his identical twin brot
 Bill Rice, an artist, actor, director and scholar, and for decades a linchpin of the now all-but-extinct cultural underground of the Lower East Side, died on Monday in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Mitchell Algus, his New York dealer. He was 74. Mr. Rice studied
 James Bastien, a pianist and educator whose instructional books have been used for more than four decades by millions of eager, and some not-so-eager, piano pupils worldwide, died on Dec. 7 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 71 and lived in La Jolla. The cause was complications of Alzheimer
 Arthur Bloom, who helped define the television newsmagazine concept as the original director of the CBS News program ''60 Minutes,'' died on Saturday at his home in Grandview-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was lung cancer, according to a spokesman for CBS News. Mr. Blo
 Christopher Lloyd, whose gardens at his country house, Great Dixter, and voluminous writings inspired generations of gardeners around the world, died Friday in Hastings, England, near the house, where he was born and lived for 84 years. His close friend and head gardener, Fergus Gar
 Nam June Paik, an avant-garde composer, performer and artist widely considered the inventor of video art, died Sunday at his winter home in Miami Beach. He was 73 and also lived in Manhattan. Mr. Paik suffered a stroke in 1996 and had been in declining health for some time, said his
