 Douglas A. McCrary, a rancher, community leader and a decorated World War II pilot, died at his home in Calvert, Tex., on June 16. He was 83. He had been battling cancer. Mr. McCrary, who was born in Calvert in 1914, attended Philips Exeter Academy and graduated from Yale Un
 Edward F. Preston, a former executive with the Office of Management and Budget who helped develop the Senior Executive Service, died on June 8. He was 79 and lived in Alexandria, Va. Mr. Preston began working in the Treasury Department in 1948 as an intern with the Office of the Sec
 Franny Murray, who starred in football and basketball for the University of Pennsylvania in the mid-1930's, then became embroiled in a major controversy over his ambitious football program as Penn's athletic director in the early 1950's, died on Sunday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was
 BRENNAN-Edward, M.D. The Executive Committee, faculty, staff and candidates of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, express our deepest sorrow over the death of our esteemed colleague, Edward Brennan, M.D. He brought a profound dedication and quiet author
 GALEF-Steven A. We are all charged with the responsibility to help make the world a better place. Steve Galef aced that course. Steve was a master at finding the prudent, the enhancing and the positive. His integrity, sound judgement and professionalism were his bywords. He was strong, soft
 KASPER-Stanley A. Born Jan. 9, 1918 in Brooklyn, New York. Passed away June 29, 1998 in The Woodlands, Texas at the age of 80. Stanley was a POW during W.W. II having served with the U.S. Army as a First Lieutenant and was awarded the Purple Heart. He was a Sr. VP of Irving Trust in NY, NY 
 NORTON-William S. The AllenStevenson School records with great sadness the death of Dr. William S. Norton, an alumnus from the Class of 1926 and father of Thomas Norton, Class of 1958. Dr. Norton served actively as School Physician and on the Board of Allen-Stevenson from 1947-1972, after w
 The Rev. Dr. Paul Matthews van Buren, a leading exponent of the ''death of God'' school of theology, died on June 18 at Memorial Hospital in Blue Hill, Me. He was 74 and lived on nearby Little Deer Isle. The cause was cancer, his family said last week in an announcement of his death
 Having quietly expanded its research operations and recruited a new crop of scientists since it was embroiled in a research fraud case seven years ago, Rockefeller University, the biomedical research institution in Manhattan, has selected a prominent cancer researcher as its next president,
 Ralph S. Brown, a law professor at Yale Law School for more than four decades and an expert on unfair competition, copyright, government security and the rights of individuals, died on June 17. He was 85 and lived in Guilford, Conn. Mr. Brown, who taught his last course, ''Copyright
 Anthony Avena, a shoeshiner of 75 years whose shop became a Queens institution and who successfully fought the city to save it, died on June 22. He was 83 and lived in Whitestone, Queens. The cause was bladder cancer, said Helen Avena, his wife of nearly 58 years. When he wa
 Edward Danforth Eddy, an educator, college administrator and frequent commentator on women's education and educational excellence, died on Sunday at his home in South Kingstown, R.I. He was 77. The cause was prostate cancer, according to the Avery-Storti Funeral Home in Wakefield, a
 Frank Byron Rowlett, one of the foursome who started the Signal Intelligence Service of the United States Army in 1930, died on Monday at the Wilson Health Care Center in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 90 and moved to the center last year from a retirement home in Sarasota, Fla. Mr. Rowle
 GALEF-Steven A. We are all charged with the responsibility to help make the world a better place. Steve Galef aced that course. Steve was a master at finding the prudent, the enhancing and the positive. His integrity, sound judgment and professionalism were his bywords. He was strong, soft,
 HIRSCH-Owen Benjamin. A unique and special man who lived his life with a joie de vivre, accomplished international businessman, beloved by his daughter, Liz; his son, Robert; his grandson, Phillip; daughter-in-law, Karen; his companion, Uschi; his brothers, Alfred and Edgar, and family and 
 JAY-Robert Dean. Of Lloyd Neck, Huntington, NY died at Huntington Hospital, June 30. He was born in Paris, France, the son of Nelson Dean Jay & Anne Augustine Jay. He attended Stowe School in England and was in the Class of '42 at Harvard, where he held the track record for the mile. He ser
 KLEIN-Bernhard. On July 1, 1998, peacefully at home, in his 92nd year. Loving uncle, great uncle, and great-great uncle. Services are private.       
 LEHRMAN-Jay Jacob. Born in New York City in 1902, attorney at law. Beloved husband of Betty. Cherished father of Lois, Carol and Maxine. Adored grandfather of David, Stephanie, Kenneth, Alisa, Matthew and Andrea. He was without equal. He will be greatly missed.       
 McGRATH-Edward P., Reverend of Oakdale, Connecticut, died after an illness Monday, June 29, on the 29th anniversary of his ordination as a Roman Catholic priest. He was 62. Father McGrath was born on December 2, 1935 in Buffalo, New York, the son of the late James and Mary Agnes (Devitt) Mc
 PREDMESKY-Rabbi Dr. Akiba. Devoted husband of Byrdie. Cherished father of Shulamit (Joel) Cohn. Beloved zaydie of Yossi, Rena, Eli, Leora, Tani, Yehuda and Betzalel. Outstanding Rav and orator. Graduate of Harvard Law School and musmach of Yeshiva University. He served the Jewish community 
 Theodore Beaubrun, one of Haiti's leading comedians and actors, died on Tuesday at his home in a Port-au-Prince suburb. He was 79. He had been waging a long battle against Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Ginette. Mr. Beaubrun, who was widely known as Languichatte, or cat
 William L. Snyder, an Academy Award-winning animation producer, died on June 3 at the Adventist Nursing Home in Livingston, N.Y. He was 80. He died of complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Adam Snyder. With his signature Cuban cigar in hand, Mr. Snyder was am
 Bruce Cratsley, a photographer whose subjects ranged from light-soaked still lifes and portraits of friends to celebratory documents of gay and lesbian life in New York City, died on Monday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was complications from AIDS, accor
 Franklin B. Pollock, a self-made businessman who rose to vice chairman of Dart Industries, died June 26 at his home in Holmby Hills, Calif. He was 95. Born in Brooklyn in 1903, Mr. Pollock began his career as a salesman for the Imperial Cork Company and later became chairman of the 
 Herbert Haufrecht, a composer, pianist, folklorist and music editor, died on June 23 at the Albany Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in Shady, N.Y. Mr. Haufrecht was born in New York City and studied at the Cleveland Institute of Music, where his teachers included the composers He
 Irving Sloane, a self-taught luthier whose how-to books on high-end guitar construction paved the way for the current proliferation of finely crafted hand-built guitars, died on June 21. He was 73. The cause was renal-cell cancer, said his son David. Mr. Sloane grew up on th
 BROWN-Ralph Sharp. The Dean and Faculty of Yale Law School mark with sadness the passing, on Wednesday, June 17, 1998, of Ralph S. Brown, Simeon E. Baldwin Professor Emeritus of Law and Frank E. Taplin Professorial Lecturer in Law, longtime friend and beloved colleague. He will be warmly re
 FELDMAN-Samuel. Extraordinary attorney at law. Beloved husband of Beatrice S. Feldman, devoted father of Alice and Jerold Gingold, and Nancy De Fren. Beloved by all who knew him. Services Friday, 12:30 at Schwartz Brothers Jeffer Memorial Chapel, Queens Blvd, 76th Rd, Forest Hills.       
 JAY-Robert Dean. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Heckscher Museum of Art records with profound sorrow the passing of our former Trustee, long-time friend and supporter, Robert Dean Jay. As a member of the Collections/Exhibitions Committee of the Board and one of the founding fellows 
 PREDMESKY-Akiba, Rabbi Dr. SAR Academy mourns the loss of the beloved husband of Byrdie, cherished father of Shulamit and Rabbi Joel Cohn, Principal of SAR. Shiva will be observed at 76-51 173rd Street, Flushing, New York, on Friday, Motzei Shabbat and Sunday until 9PM; it will continue at 
 SNOW-Vernon F. New York University notes with sadness the passing of Dr. Vernon F. Snow, educator, friend and benefactor of New York University. Through the John Ben Snow Memorial Trust, Dr. Snow assisted many artistic and educational endeavors. At NYU, he is remembered for his longtime sup
 STREMMEL-William M. Died in Miami, FL. He graduated from Mamaroneck High School in 1961 followed by the U.S. Naval Academy and a tour as a officer in Vietnam. He is survived by siblings Bob, Patricia (Hahn) and Nancy.       
 VAN BUREN-Paul M. We mourn the death of Paul M. van Buren, one of the most profound and creative theologians of our time, and a cherished advisor to this organization. Those who work in the field are forever indebted to him for his vision and courage. We extend our sincere condolences to hi
 WELDEN-Richard Clinton. June 29, 1998. Husband of Mary Thenebe Welden. Father of Thorn, Wickford and Trafford. Brother of Robert E. Welden. He was a partner with the law firm Decker, Hubbard, Welden and Sweeney, NYC. Memorial service Tuesday, July 14, 1998, 11AM at the Brick Presbyterian Ch
 Richard A. Orange Jr., a management consultant who used his knowledge and love of jazz to help executives see the strength of improvisation and teamwork, died June 4 at New York University Hospital. He was 48 years old. The cause of death was a stroke, said his sister, Taur.        
 Steven A. Galef, a Manhattan lawyer who was active in health and community affairs in Westchester County, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 58 and lived in Ossining, N.Y. The cause was throat cancer, his family said. Mr. Galef, who was a senior
 Frank L. Goffio, a former executive director of CARE who helped shape its present mission of sending disaster relief and assistance for self-help projects to the far corners of the world, died on June 27 at a nursing home in Avon, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Farmington, Conn. Mr. G
 Gardner Patterson, a prominent trade economist and a prolific writer who helped negotiate several important international treaties, died at his home in Washington, on June 26. He was 82. Dr. Patterson died from lymphoma. A native of Burt, Iowa, Dr. Patterson had a doctorate 
 Lawrence Campbell, a critic who chronicled New York's contemporary art scene for nearly four decades, while also painting, teaching art history and working as an editor, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84  and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Campbell was m
 Lev Rokhlin, a onetime Russian lieutenant general, national legislator and leader of a splinter movement aimed at deposing President Boris N. Yeltsin, was killed with a shot to his head today after a family celebration at his country home outside Moscow. He was 51. Radical members o
 ALCOTT-Fred. Age 98, on July 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Rica. Devoted father of Mimi and Virginia. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Richard, David, James & Victoria, and loving great-grandfather of Nicholas, Annie, Alice & Benjamin. He was a man of extraordinary capabilities who persevere
 KRAVITZ-Jeffrey L. On Friday, July 3, 1998, after an incredible, courageous two year battle, he passed away peacefully at home. Loving son of Julie and the late Irene. Beloved brother of Barbara Cohen. Adoring uncle of Darren. Executive Vice President of Riviera Trading Inc. Funeral service
 Renato Capecchi, an Italian baritone and character actor who was best known for his deft portrayals of comic roles, died on Tuesday at his home in Milan. He was 74. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Tony Russo, his spokesman. Mr. Capecchi was a regul
 William D. Carey, a former executive officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a former assistant director of the Bureau of the Budget, died on June 24 at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause was chronic lung disease, said his son, Eric. 
 Aram Glorig, a leading expert on the effects of noise in the workplace whose work helped untold numbers of people with deafness or hearing loss, died on June 22 at the South Coast Medical Center in San Clemente, Calif. He was 92 and lived in San Clemente. Dr. Glorig's career as a fo
 John J. Ryan, a former investment banker and founder of John J. Ryan & Company, died on June 23 at River Extended Care Residence in Red Bank, N.J. A resident of Palm Beach, Fla., and Red Bank, he was 86. He began his financial career in 1928 when he was 18, as a runner in the Wall S
 ABRAMSON-Samuel. Cherished and beloved husband of almost fifty years to Jeanne (nee Quint). Devoted and respected father of Radine and Bill Spier, Ellis and Helene Abramson. Adored grandfather of Rosalyn, David, Michael and Jason; step-grandfather to Jonathan Spier, Debby and Bruce Prince, 
 BAMBERY-Richard John, Sr. Of Garden City, New York. Peacefully passed into eternal rest on July 1, 1998. Loving father of Richard, Jr., Michael, Robert and the late Michelle. Grandfather of seven. Forever in the heart of Agnes Napolitano. Born in Saint Paul, MN. Pilot. Major, Eighth Air For
 CAMPBELL-Lawrence. The Art Students League of New York marks the passing of Lawrence Campbell, artist, author, noted art critic, and the League's Dedicated Director of Publications and Archives for many years. We appreciate his significant contribution to the literary and intellectual life 
 CAPECCHI-Renato. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our friend and colleague, Renato Capecchi. His Met career spanned forty-three years and encompassed a wide variety of roles. We will remember him especially for his many fine comic interpretations, but also for his personal charm a
 CHILD-Malcolm. Died in Miami, FL, on June 28, after a respiratory illness. Born in NYC on June 12, 1917, Mr. Child worked in radio broadcasting as an announcer, producer and interviewer for WBBC and WEVD and was a classical music announcer for WQXR. He wrote and produced records for childre
 DAVIDSON-Sidney W., Jr. Formerly of Lyme, CT and Bedford, on July 1, 1998. Survived by his wife of 54 years, Grace Moffat, his five children, Susan M., Mary B., Sidney W. III (Tres) Davidson, Anne D. Hardy (David) and Sarah D. O'Leary (Sean). He is also survived by a grandson and his four s
 FELDMAN-Samuel. Extraordinary attorney at law. Beloved husband of Beatrice S. Feldman, devoted father of Alice and Jerold Gingold, and Nancy De Fren. Beloved by all who knew him.       
 GOLDEN-Fred. Age 82, of New York City. Passed away on July 3, 1998, unexpectedly. For 31 years, he was the deeply devoted and beloved husband of Hope, faithful brother of Ruth Peck, and loving uncle of Jay Lev and step-father of Dr. Scott Smoller. We will treasure his memory forever. Funera
 GOLDWEITZ-Saul. Of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, on July 3, 1998. Born in New York City in 1920, he graduated from Townsend-Harris and the College of the City of New York, and earned his MBA from Harvard University, with distinction. He served as Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy during World 
 GOODYEAR-Stephen. Of Charlottesville, VA, died peacefully on July 2, 1998. Beloved father of Zachary, Jessica, Talbot and Abigail. Born and raised in Buffalo, he graduated from Harvard in 1938 and received his MD from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia in 1943. After service
 JENNINGS-John Quincey. Passed away June 26, 1998 at age 92. He retired from Singer and lived most of his life in New York City. He moved to New Braunfels, TX to be closer to his family. The family suggest memorials be made to the American Cancer Society.       
 KANDEL-Malcolm Stuart. July 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Adele. Adored father of Andrew & John. He will be remembered with love always. Memorial service Tues., July 7, 12:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory to Memorial Sloan-Kettering or Cal
 SCHEINFELD-Jeremy ''J'' ''Jer''. Our Buddy, our Champ, our Pal, our Son. We hear your beautiful voice, we see your loving smile, we feel your ease of being and complete joy for limitless life and learning. No genuine words can express how deeply we miss and love you, your mind, body and gen
 VANNECK-Jay. The Friends of Bailey Arboretum mourns with great sadness the death of Jay Vanneck, President of Bailey Foundation. He was a generous and caring supporter of the Arboretum. Deepest sympathy is extended to his family. Board of Trustees, Bailey Arboretum       
 WELDEN-Richard Clinton. June 29, 1998. Husband of Mary Thenebe Welden. Father of Thorn, Wickford and Trafford. Brother of Robert E. Welden. He was a partner with the law firm Decker, Hubbard, Welden and Sweeney, NYC. Memorial service Tuesday, July 14, 1998, 11AM at the Brick Presbyterian Ch
 WILLIAMS-Kenneth D. Died June 29, in Los Angeles. Age 71. Resident of Washington Depot, CT. Survived by his loving wife Sally Baker, sons Nathan and Douglas, and two grandsons. Gradute of Tufts University. Owner/manager of a group of Chuck's Steakhouses in CT, and past president of Connecti
 COHEN-Elias A. Although fortysix years have passed, since our beloved founder, Elias A. Cohen, passed away on July 2, 1952, he is still remembered with love and reverence by the thousands of deserving boys and girls who were privileged to come to his Tranquillity Farm and Camp for a few fun
 Vernon F. Snow, a foundation executive and retired professor of English history and Western civilization at Syracuse University, died June 24 at his home in Jamesville, N.Y. He was 73 and also had a home in Marco Island, Fla. The cause was cancer, Syracuse University officials said.
 Col. Andrew Croft, a British explorer of the frozen north who became an expert on winter warfare during World War II and made his expertise available to the United States Army during the Korean War, died on June 26. He was 91 and lived in London. Colonel Croft, an Oxford graduate wh
 The jazz drummer, pianist and composer Errol Parker, whose thick and highly arranged music doggedly confirmed African connections in jazz, died at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan on Thursday. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, said his daughter, the composer 
 John H. Prescott, a marine biologist who directed the New England Aquarium in Boston for 22 years and was among the first to describe how dolphins use sound waves to find food, died on Tuesday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 63. The cause was cancer, his family said. Ear
 BLECKNER-Fred. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Susan and Bobby Heller, Ross and Flora. Cherished grandfather and friend of Lisa Joy Heller. We celebrate your life. Burial will be private. A memorial service will be held at a later date. BLECKNER-Fred. Control Industries m
 CLANCY-Michael Leary. Of New York City. Died Saturday, July 4, 1998, at Jersey Shore Medical Center, Neptune. He was 37 years old. Son of Dorothy L. Clancy and Richard J. Clancy. Brother of Kathleen Gates, James P. Clancy, Julia Sands, and Kerry Zachowski. Mr. Clancy was born in Manhattan, 
 CRAWFORD-Anna May (Skelly). Of West Orange, NJ. On July 3, 1998. Wife of the late Col. John D. Crawford, Sr. (USA). Mother of John D., Jr., and his wife, Terry of New Providence, NJ. Sister of Christina Casbay of Ridgefield, CT. Also survived by three grandsons. Funeral service at Quinn-Hop
 DAVIDSON-Sidney W., Jr. Formerly of Lyme, CT and Bedford, on July 1, 1998. Survived by his wife of 54 years, Grace Moffat, his five children, Susan M., Mary B., Sidney W. III (Tres) Davidson, Anne D. Hardy (David) and Sarah D. O'Leary (Sean). He is also survived by a grandson and his four s
 GOLDEN-Fred. Age 82, of New York City. Passed away on July 3, 1998, unexpectedly. For 31 years, he was the deeply devoted and beloved husband of Hope, faithful brother of Ruth Peck, and loving uncle of Jay Lev and step-father of Dr. Scott Smoller. We will treasure his memory forever. Funera
 GRUSH-Russell Benjamin. On July 3, 1998, peacefully in his 94th year. A gentle man, lover of history, books, nature and the precision of the English language. Our family mourns your loss and celebrates your life. Your spirit lives in each of us. Your Loving Daughter Linda Williams       
 KANDEL-Malcolm Stuart. July 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Adele. Adored father of Andrew & John. He will be remembered with love always. Memorial service Tues., July 7, 12:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory to Memorial Sloan-Kettering or Cal
 LEVY-David J., Jr. Of Bal Harbour, FL. Formerly of Woodmere, NY. Born June 28, 1914, Kalamazoo, MI to Dr. David J. Levy and Helen Blitz Levy. Died July 4, 1998. Graduate The Cranbrook School and University of Michigan. Cherished husband of Pearl Elkind and the late Betty Kastan. Loving fath
 TANZER-Leon. Loving husband of Jane. Devoted father of Debbie and Tom Scully, Robert and Brenda Tanzer, Steven and Nancy Tanzer. Adoring grandfather of Allison and Sarah, Adam and Dean, and Jamie. Brother-in-law of Irene Laserson. Dearest uncle of Nina and Lillian. Service today at 12 noon,
 LUBIN-Isador. (Lube to his friends and family) left us 20 years ago today-but his legacy is enduring. We all miss his guidance and wish he were here today. His family and his friends       
 Sid Luckman, the Columbia University star and quarterback of the great Chicago Bears teams of the 1940's who helped trigger a revolution in how the game of football was played, died yesterday at Aventura (Fla.) Hospital and Medical Center. Luckman, who lived in Aventura, was 81. Luc
 Louis L. Goldstein, an indelible figure in Maryland politics as well as one of the longest-serving state officials in American history, died on Friday night at his home in Prince Frederick, Md. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, family members said. As Comptroller of M
 BAERWALD-H. Fred. On July 4, 1998. Devoted husband of Juliana. Beloved brother of Liese. Cherished father of Jessica. Adoring grandfather of Alexander and Claire. Caring father-in-law of Alain. He is loved and will be missed. A Memorial Service will be held in the Fall.       
 BLECKNER-Fred. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Susan and Bobby Heller, Ross and Flora. Cherished grandfather and friend of Lisa Joy Heller. We celebrate your life. Burial will be private. The family will sit shiva Tuesday and Wednesday at the Bleckner residence. A memorial servic
 DAVIDSON-Robert T.H., Esq. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York, Santa Fe, NM and Bellport, Long Island, died July 5, 1998 at his home in Killingworth, CT after a long respiratory illness. Graduate of Yale, Class of 45 W and of Yale Law School. Past President of The Brooklyn Hospital and the Remb
 GARBE-Ernest H. On June 28, 1998, peacefully at home in the house of his birth in his beloved Brooklyn. He was devoted to his family, his church and his country. A W.W. II veteran, he served as a non-commissioned officer, 389th Port Battalion, U.S. Army, European Theater. A graduate of Colu
 GOLDEN-Fred. Died July 3, 1998. The Board of Directors of the Carcinoid Cancer Foundation, Inc. records with deep sorrow the unexpected passing of our dear friend and fellow Board member, Fred Golden. We extend our deepest condolences to his loving wife, Hope, and family. His sage counsel a
 GRUSH-Russell Benjamin. On July 3, 1998, peacefully in his 94th year. A gentle man, lover of history, books, nature and the precision of the English language. Our family mourns your loss and celebrates your life. Your spirit lives in each of us. Your Loving Daughter Linda Williams       
 KAPLAN-Samuel. Age 86, formerly of Brownsville, died peacefully in Kendall, Florida on July 1, 1998. ''Sammy'', a member of the New York City ''schoolboy'' and amateur championship basketball teams of 1930-1934 known as the DUX, A.C. Played professionally between 1935-1946 in the American B
 KERN-Herbert L. Of Kings Point, New York, July 4, 1998. Beloved husband of Marjorie, devoted father of Russell and John Handler, Michael & Jonathan, grandfather of David, Alex, Olivia and Emma. Noted for his long time work in the pharmaceutical industry as an executive and as a consultant. 
 McGIVERN-Judge Owen. Age 87. On July 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan. Father of Owen Lane McGivern, Joan Morgan McGivern, Thomas More McGivern, Morgan Owen McGivern, Tara Lynn and grandfather of four. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 4-8P
 PADUA-Francisco. Passed away June 24, 1998, buried on July 3rd at Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Covina Hills, CA. Born January 24, 1926, he is survived by wife Aurora, daughter Mary Grace, son-inlaw Luis Rodriguez, and grandson Lusito. Former auditor for Philipine National Bank in NYC.       
 ROTHMAN-Sadye. Beloved wife of the late Harry and devoted mother of Melvyn and daughterin-law Barbara. Loving sister of Leanore Rappaport and cherished grandmother of Jeffrey. Also survived by many beloved friends and relatives. Services Tuesday, 10 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Am
 Roy Rogers, a shoe factory worker's son from Cincinnati who rode a golden palomino and a harmonious voice to fame as Hollywood's most beloved and quintessential singing cowboy, died yesterday at his ranch in Apple Valley near Victorville, Calif. He was 86. With a guitar propped on h
 Alfred Fromm, a leader in the early days of the California wine industry, died at his home in San Francisco on Thursday. He was 93. Mr. Fromm was born in Kitzingen, Bavaria, the fourth generation of a family of wine makers at Bingen on the Rhine. Fleeing from the Nazis, in 1936 he c
 Bruce M. Galphin, executive director of the international wine competition in Atlanta and a former writer for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution and The Washington Post, died on Monday at Brian Center in Canton, Ga. He was 65 and lived in Atlanta. The cause was complications from a st
 Evan Whallon, an American conductor who led orchestras in the United States and Europe, died on June 14 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. A resident of Gaithersburg, Md., he was 74 and formerly lived in Columbus, Ohio, where he served as conductor and music director of the Columbus Symp
 Moshood Kashimawoo Olawale Abiola, who died yesterday just as his release from prison appeared imminent, apparently won Nigeria's presidency in 1993. But instead of serving in office, he endured years in detention, in increasingly bad health, and he collapsed yesterday just as he me
 Owen McGivern, the son of an iceman who with the backing of Tammany Hall, Manhattan's powerful Democratic organization, rose through the ranks to become presiding justice of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, died on Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 87.      
 BAERWALD-H. Fred. On July 4, 1998. Devoted husband of Juliana. Beloved brother of Dr. Liese L. Abell. Cherished father of Jessica Bourgeois. Adoring grandfather of Alexander and Claire Bourgeois. Caring father-in-law of Alain Bourgeois. He is loved and will be missed. A Memorial Service wil
 BERGER-Curtis. Age 72. Died July 6, 1998 of cancer. Beloved husband of Vivian. Devoted father of Ellen Lewis and John, Cathy and Wendy Berger, and loving grandfather of eleven. Caring brother of Gloria Drehmel, Glenna Cook, and Philip Berger. Graduate of the University of Rochester and Yale
 DAVIDSON-Robert T.H., Esq. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York, Santa Fe, NM and Bellport, Long Island, died July 5, 1998 at his home in Killingworth, CT after a long respiratory illness. Graduate of Yale, Class of 45 W and of Yale Law School. Past President of The Brooklyn Hospital and the Remb
 DUNK-Peter K. The directors, officers and members of Kane Lodge Foundation, Inc., New York City, note with profound sorrow the death of our colleague and friend, Peter K. Dunk, a member of the Foundation since 1968 and one of its Directors since 1986. He will be sorely missed by all who wer
 EISENBERG-Sanford H. (Sande). On July 6, 1998 at age 80 at home in Chevy Chase, MD. Cherished husband of Patricia. Beloved father of Nancy & Jean. Grandfather of Brittany and Courtney. Dear brother of Everett Eisenberg and Sydelle Diner. He is mourned by family, patients, friends, colleague
 GARBE-Ernest H. On June 28, 1998, peacefully at home in the house of his birth in his beloved Brooklyn. He was devoted to his family, his church and his country. A W.W. II veteran, he served as a non-commissioned officer, 389th Port Battalion, U.S. Army, European Theater. A graduate of Colu
 GOLDSTEIN - Jeffrey Alan. Passed away on July 5, 1998. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the untimely passing of our beloved member Jeffrey Goldstein and extend our deepest sympathy to his parents Steven and Jane Goldstein and Sharon and Stephe
 GREENBERG-Frank, MD. Passed away on Friday, July 3, 1998 in Washington, DC at age 49 from complications due to AIDS. Dr Greenberg was a tireless advocate for people with genetic disorders and AIDS. He is survived by his partner, Linwood Vincent of Washington, DC; his mother, Frances Greenbe
 KUPFERSTEIN-Harry (Hershel) July 4, 1998. Born in Warsaw, Poland in 1916. From age 12 embarked on a long, rich career in printing, began as an apprentice printer for the ''Folks Tseitung'' of Warsaw followed by being a typesetter for ''Dos Vort'' in post WWII Paris, then for the Jewish Dail
 LEVIN-William D. On July 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Wilma, loving father of Joyce Pollich, adoring grandfather of Mark, Molly and Melissa. Dear brother of Jess. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Tuesday, July 7, 2-5 and 7-9 PM, with service on We
 LINCOLN-Gilbert Hartzell. Important to many people. Metropolitan Community Church minister in New York City and Columbia, SC. Previously, Presbyterian minister in Jamaica, Queens, and Washington Heights. Died 70 years of age July 2, 1998 in Columbia, S.C., among friends & loved ones. He is 
 LINDER-Milton J. (Mike). Passed away on July 6, 1998. He was a resident of Boca West Country Club for several years. He is survived by his children, Steven and Kathy, Craig and Susan, Robert, Tracy and Jonathan; his grandchildren Adam, Wyatt, Sierra, Kyle; and his sister Muriel White and br
 MASCOLO-Alfred E. Emeritus Dean of Instructional Services and Professor of Business at Kingsborough Community College, The City University of New York. The adminstration, faculty, staff and students of Kingsborough Community College mourn the passing of a most valued colleague and friend on
 McGIVERN-Judge Owen. Age 87. On July 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan. Father of Owen Lane McGivern, Joan Morgan McGivern, Thomas More McGivern, Morgan Owen McGivern, Tara Lynn and grandfather of four. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 4-8P
 PERLOW-Jack, D.D.S. Age 87 on July 3rd, 1998 in West Palm Beach. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of Rosalind and Stewart. Former President of Tenth District Dental Society and NassauSuffolk Dental Society (1976). Fellow of Academy of Orthodontics. He will be missed greatly by his 
 PRICE-George. On July 7, 1998. Peacefully, after a prolonged illness. A financial consultant at Salomon Smith Barney and, previously, at Drexel Burnham for many years. He will be mourned by family, friends and colleagues. A memorial service will be held 10AM, Thursday, July 9th, at Frank E.
 ROD-James P. The Board of Directors of Riverkeeper notes with great sorrow the death of Jim, age 53, our Vice President, on July 4 in New York City from cancer. A native of Ames, Iowa, he studied wildlife biology at Iowa State University and received a B.S. degree in journalism from Iona Co
 ROGERS-Roy. The Board of Trustees of Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System, and Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, and the children served by the Roy Rogers & Dale Evans Children's Center mourn the death of America's ''King of the Cowboys'' Roy Rogers, beloved husband of Dale Evans. We extend 
 ROOSEVELT-W. Emlen. Born New York City, August 29, 1917July 4, 1998. Eldest son of John Kean Roosevelt and Elise Annette Weinacht. Widower of Arlene King Roosevelt (12/75). Survived by his daughters Lucy M. Sewall/Rubinow of Brookline, Ma., the Reverend Nancy A. Roosevelt of Rochester, NY. 
 SCHEINFELD-Jeremy. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of Jeremy Scheinfeld, grandson of Elaine and Sidney Scheinfeld, our esteeemed Past Presidents and extends heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Norman Doctor, President SCHEINFELD-Jere
 Fred Golden, a dean among theatrical advertising men and winner of a special Tony Award in 1988, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Golden started his career in 1931 as a messenger for the Blaine Thompson Company, a theater advertising agency that spawned most o
 BERGER-Curtis. The Board, staff and clients of The Bridge Inc. deeply mourn the death of Curtis Berger, long-time board member and past President. Curt's tireless dedication to the work of The Bridge, his vision and leadership in helping to guide us through a long period of growth and devel
 CONNERY-Robert H., Professor. Age 90, died July 3, 1998 in Falls Church, VA. Professor Emeritus of Public Law and Government, author, educator, public servant and beloved friend. Dr. Connery is deeply mourned by his dear friends of many years, the Connorton family: Grace Connorton, John V. 
 DUNK-Peter K. The directors, officers and members of Kane Lodge Foundation, Inc., New York City, note with profound sorrow the death of our colleague and friend, Peter K. Dunk, a member of the Foundation since 1968 and one of its Directors since 1986. He will be sorely missed by all who wer
 FEHR-Robert O., Ph.D. on July 7, in Greenwich, CT. Born 1911, Berlin, Germany. Beloved husband of Edith. Father of David, Grandfather of Daniel and Adam. Graduate of E.T.H., Zurich Mechanical Engineering. Engineer at General Electric, Schenectady, NY. Professor of Mechanical Engineering, Co
 JAHNIGEN-Dennis W., M.D. The Board, staff and members of the American Geriatrics Society (AGS) note with great sadness the passing of our colleague, friend, and Immediate Past President, Dr. Dennis W. Jahnigen. A warm, compassionate and talented physician, Dr. Jahnigen was deeply commited t
 KNUDSEN-Semon E. The Board of Governors, Trustees and staff of Boys & Girls Clubs of America (B&GCA) wish to express their sorrow over the recent passing of Mr. Semon E. Knudsen, a B&GCA trustee for nearly 40 years. His lifelong concern for America's children was personified by his tireless
 LYGNOS-Peter N. Age 64. Passed away July 7, 1998 in Greece. Survived by wife Anna, children, Penelope Lygnos-Mavris, Nicholas P. Lygnos, Chrysanphe and Maria Lygnos-Lemos. Also survived by his mother, Penelope Lygnos and his brother George Lygnos, his wife Elli and his children, Nicholas, P
 MAZER-William. On July 7, in the month of his 93rd birthday. Last surviving child of Abraham & Rose Mazer. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Dear father of Linda (Leonard) Berkowitz, Frank (Angela) & Robert (Magda) Mazer. Loving grandfather of Steven Bercu, Alan and David Berkowitz, Jesse,
 MAZZEO-Joseph A. On July 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Lucy (Welch). Also survived by his sisters, Mary Rinaldi, Mae Scolaro and Lauretta Korothy, and uncle of many nieces and nephews. Avalon Foundation Professor Emeritus in the Humanities of the Department of English and Comparative Literatu
 McGIVERN-Judge Owen. Age 87. On July 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan. Father of Owen Lane McGivern, Joan Morgan McGivern, Thomas More McGivern, Morgan Owen McGivern, Tara Lynn and grandfather of four. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 4-8P
 SCHEINFELD - Jeremy. Your beauty and sweetness were best expressed to us through the joy in your parents' voices and the smiles on their faces whenever they thought or spoke of you, and the glow in your father's eyes whenever he heard your voice on the telephone. Your smile lives on through
 SCHUCK-George Jacob, Jr. The students, faculty, administration and staff of the Harry Van Arsdale, Jr. School of Labor Studies of Empire State College, SUNY mourn the loss of George Schuck, Jr., a staunch supporter and friend of labor education and Chairman of the Joint Industry Board of th
 SIMONS-Robert. Died in his sleep on July 8 from effects of multiple myeloma. Father of Tim and Barbara Greene; stepfather of Richard Fields and Marjorie Vandow; grandfather of Ginger, Timothy and Robert. Great-grandfather. Services private. Contributions to charities of choice. SIMO
 Semon E. Knudsen, who had been a high-ranking executive at the General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the White Motor Corporation, died on Monday at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. He was 85. Mr. Knudsen, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., who was invariably c
 Tillman Durdin, a longtime foreign correspondent for The New York Times who was one of the first to write about the Japanese atrocities in China that became known as the Rape of Nanking, died on Tuesday at the Green Hospital in San Diego. He was 91 and lived in San Diego. In Decembe
 George Lloyd, a British symphonist and opera composer who rejected the major stylistic currents of the 20th century in favor of the language, coloration and sheer lushness of late Romanticism, died on July 3 at University College Hospital in London. He was 85. Critics were divided a
 ATKIN-Dr. Maurice B. Died on Monday, July 6. Beloved husband of Diana, loving father of Peter and Michael. He will always be in our hearts.       
 BERGER-Curtis. The Trustees of The University of Rochester and the Staff of the Office of Alumni Relations and Development convey their condolences on the passing of a friend. Curt, Class of 1948, was an active alumnus, extraordinary law teacher and a gentleman. He had a long University ass
 BROTMAN-Martin. Artist and lifelong student of the Civil War, died July 6, 1998 at age 70. Survived by wife Gloria, daughter Zoe Denahy and son-in-law William, son Ivan and daugher-in-law Leslie, grandsons Jackson, Beauchamp, his father Jack and stepson Farrel Bove and wife Pam. He had a lo
 DONNELLY-John A. Died on July 7th, 1998, at age 78 at home in Vero Beach, Florida. Due to complications from Cancer. Born in Brooklyn, NY, May 29, 1920. Was a WWII Veteran and had a long and celebrated career as a Television Producer in Advertising. Survived by his loving wife of 48 years, 
 FAHERTY-Clarence J. Of New Rochelle, New York, on Thursday, July 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Inge E. (nee Fleischman). Father of Roger, Peter, Dennis. Dear grandfather of fifteen, great grandfather of six. Father of the late David who died in 1965 and his first wife Helen Zabrisky who passe
 FEHR-Robert O., Dr. The Directors of the Heineman Foundation for Charitable, Educational and Scientific Purposes Inc. note with profound sadness the passing of Dr. Robert Fehr, a longtime member of the Board. Bob's wide range of knowledge and his dedication to the purposes of the Foundation
 FROMM-Alfred. The American Friends of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn with sorrow the passing of Alfred Fromm, a noted philanthropist and generous supporter of The Hebrew University since 1977. He and his wife, Hanna, sponsored numerous student scholarships and founded the Fromm In
 KLEIN-Paul. The Officers, Govenors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Paul Klein on July 5, 1998. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir
 LUCKMAN-Sid. The Columbia University Department of Athletics mourns the passing of Sid Luckman, one of its most illustrious athletic alumni, who distinguished himself on the playing fields of both Columbia and the NFL as one of the first great, modern quarterbacks. We extend our sincere con
 LYGNOS-Peter N. Age 64. Passed away July 7, 1998 in Greece. Survived by wife Anna, children, Penelope Lygnos-Mavris, Nicholas P. Lygnos, Chrysanphe and Maria Lygnos-Lemos. Also survived by his mother, Penelope Lygnos and his brother George Lygnos, his wife Elli and his children, Nicholas, P
 MAZER-William. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend, YU Benefactor and Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine with his late wife, Helen, and a leader in Jewish communal life. He was the surviving member of one of our eminent founding families who
 ROD-James P. The directors and staff of the Hudson River Foundation and the Hudson River Improvement Fund note with deepest sorrow the death of Jim Rod, manager of the Constitution Marsh Sanctuary. We celebrate Jim for his love of, and attention to, the natural world and his particular ferv
 ROTHSCHILD-Dr. Jacob, at 76. On July 9th. He was a true gentleman and scholar. Born in Zurich, he established a life as a student, scholar and mohel in Zurich, psychologist in NY and most recently as a scholar and student in Israel. He led a blessed life. He is survived by his wife Eileen (
 SIEGEL-Simeon, MD, 86. Retired physician of New Milford, N.J., died on July 4 at Bergen Regional Medical Center after a long illness. He maintained a general family practice in Dumont, NJ for over 35 years. He was a member of the medical staff of Englewood Hospital & Bergen Pines County Hos
 SIMONS-Robert. Died in his sleep on July 8 from effects of multiple myeloma. Father of Tim and Barbara Greene; stepfather of Richard Fields and Marjorie Vandow; grandfather of Ginger, Timothy and Robert. Great-grandfather. Services private. Contributions to charities of choice.       
 WELDEN-Richard C. Died on June 29, 1998. Husband of Mary T. Welden. Father of Thorn, Wickford and Trafford. Brother of Robert E. Welden. Born May 6, 1924 in Hartford, CT. Graduate of Loomis, 1942, Yale University, 1948 and Harvard Law School, 1951. U.S. Army veteran of World War II serving 
 Warren B. Cozzens, a pioneer in the development of the modern electrocardiogram, died on July 2 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 81 and lived in Evanston. He died of a respiratory ailment after a long illness, his family said. Mr. Cozzens was an inventor whose f
 Wayne Calloway, the former chairman and chief executive of Pepsico who combined a quiet, introspective leadership style with an intensely competitive business strategy, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 and had been battling prostate can
 The Rev. Bernard Haring, a Roman Catholic scholar who influenced the sweeping modernization of Vatican II by emphasizing a moral theology of Christian love rather than the cataloguing of sins, died July 3 at a German monastery. He was 85. The cause was a stroke, according to the Cat
 Elijah Pitts, a running back for the Green Bay Packers during their glory years of the 1960's and the assistant head coach of the outstanding Buffalo Bills teams of the 1990's, died yesterday at Mercy General Hospital in Buffalo. He was 60. He had been suffering from abdominal cance
 James P. Rod, a naturalist who revealed the secret world of Hudson River snapping turtles, muskrats and cattails to governors and schoolchildren alike as warden of a protected marsh in Garrison, N.Y., died last Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 53. The caus
 Peter K. Bloch, a founder and former president of Branson Instruments, a company that developed ultrasound fetal monitoring and a number of other medical and commercial uses for ultrasound, died on Tuesday in New London, N.H. He was 79 and lived in New London. The cause of death was
 CALLOWAY-Wayne. The Purchase College community is deeply saddened by the passing of our friend, Wayne Calloway. Mr. Calloway's generous spirit toward Purchase College was evidence of his personal commitment to higher education. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Calloway's family an
 LYNAUGH-George Louis, 58. Died July 9 at his home in Milan, N.Y., after a long and courageous battle with lung cancer. George was executive vice president of McCann Erickson, culminating a lifelong career in advertising. After retirement he was owner and operator of the Hyde Park Antique Ce
 MAZER-William. The Brandeis University community mourns the death of a cherished and longstanding friend. A gentle and generous man, he provided wisdom and support as a member of our Board of Trustees for over four decades. In appreciation of Mr. Mazer's leadership, at Brandeis and in the c
 RASAMNY-Rafic M. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL and Redding, CT. President of Rasamny Knitting Mills of Bethel, CT,. died July 8 in Redding, CT. Mr. Rasamny was born in Lebanon, July 20, 1915 and had lived at 1067 Fifth Avenue, NY. With his four brothers he founded Rasamny Brothers, Inc., distribut
 ROLLINS-Jack Leon. July 5, 1998 at his home in Sun City, AZ. Retired textile executive with Cohen Hall Marx in N.Y., Chairman of the Board, Associated Textiles of Canada, Montreal, and Chairman of the Board, United Merchants and Manufacturers, U.K., Ltd. He was the devoted husband of the la
 ROSENBERG-Arthur. Born on February 6th, 1915 in Brooklyn, New York. Died on July 8th, 1998. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 58 years, Helen M. Rosenberg. Adoring father of Susan Rose and Leslie Nagy. Devoted grandfather of Julie Weiner, Carrie Pillar, Alissa and Pamela Nagy, whom he refe
 SELKE-Jack L. Of Aventura, Florida, on July 10, 1998 devoted husband to Esther for 64 years; beloved father to Gerald & Marlene, Marilyn & Phil, Marjorie & David; cherished grandfather to eleven, great grandfather to nine; caring brother to Lee and Esther. He is a graduate of New York Unive
 ROUSSIN-Arthur Richard. March 12, 1926-July 11, 1993. ''If you press me to say why I loved him, I can say no more than it was because he was he and I was I.'' Montaigne I miss you so much. Stuppy       
 William Mazer, who made his fortune in the paper industry and shared it with charities at home and in Israel, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.  He was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Mazer embraced the philanthropic traditions and commitments of h
 Irwin H. (Sonny) Bloch, a radio show host who persuaded hundreds of listeners to invest in worthless securities, bilking them of $21 million, died on March 10 at a relative's home in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. He was 61 and lived in Tampa, Fla. The cause was lung cancer, said Otto Dube
 Lord Rayner, who oversaw a revival and vast expansion of Britain's leading retailer as chairman and chief executive of Marks & Spencer P.L.C., died on June 26, the company announced in London. He was 72. The tight financial controls and strong management practices that Lord Rayner a
 CRATSLEY-D. Bruce, on June 29, in New York. An acclaimed photographer recognized by a Brooklyn Museum retrospective in 1996, and his book, ''White Light, Silent Shadows,'' in 1998. A Swarthmore graduate, he is survived by his partner, William Leight; mother, Jane; brother, John; and nephews
 CRONAN-Leo J. Age 91. Husband of the late Loretta (Kelly) Cronan, died in Warrenton, VA, on July 5. Born in Beverly, MA son of the late Daniel and Elizabeth (Gibney) Cronin, he was a graduate of Beverly High School and attended Pinkerton Academy and was a graduate of Notre Dame University i
 GUZMAN-Alberto Luis. A Director/Choreographer, at age 35, died on June 21, 1998. Remembered with love by partner Chris Reimensnyder, friend David Greenberg, mother Carmen Logsdon, sister and brother-in-law Peggy and Brian Barber, niece Spencer. He is an angel to us all.       
 HAUSMAN-Jack. Age 96. On July 10, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Ethel Hausman. Father of Richard and Michael and the late Peter Hausman. Grandfather of eight and great-grandfather of nine. Brother of Leo and the late Samuel Hausman and the late Anne Herrmann. Friends may call at Frank E
 HENNEMAN-John B. Jr. Age 62, died July 7 in Princeton, NJ, of cancer. A scholar of French Medieval history. He was first a professor then a librarian in an academic career of more than 30 years. Since 1983, he was History Bibliographer at Firestone Library at Princeton University. He is sur
 KRAUSZ-Leslie, M.D., retired psychiatrist, died on July 8 at age 85 at the Manor Care Nursing Home Bethesda, MD. Dr. Krausz immigrated to the U.S. in 1961 with his family from Transylvania via Israel. After completing his training in psychiatry, he established a practice in New Brunswick, N
 MAZER-William. On July 7, in the month of his 93rd birthday. Last surviving child of Abraham & Rose Mazer. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Dear father of Linda (Leonard) Berkowitz, Frank (Angela) & Robert (Magda) Mazer. Loving grandfather of Steven Bercu, Alan and David Berkowitz, Jesse,
 McCARTY-Charles F. A retired Army Colonel, died early Sunday morning, June 7th, 1998 (after a long illness). Colonel McCarty was born in Brooklyn, New York, the son of Dr. and Mrs. Charles F. McCarty. He graduated from Xavier High School in New York City and from the United States Military 
 OLER-Wesley M., III, MD. Age 80, on Tuesday, July 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Virginia Oler of Maplewood Park Place, Bethesda, MD, and beloved father of Wesley M. Oler, IV of Greenwich, CT. and Stephen S. Oler of Wellesley, MA. He is also survived by two brothers: William H. Oler and the Re
 ROLLINS-Jack Leon. July 5, 1998 at his home in Sun City, AZ. Retired textile executive with Cohen Hall Marx in N.Y., Chairman of the Board, Associated Textiles of Canada, Montreal, and Chairman of the Board, United Merchants and Manufacturers, U.K., Ltd. He was the devoted husband of the la
 ROSENBERG-Arthur. Born on February 6th, 1915 in Brooklyn, New York. Died on July 8th, 1998. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 58 years, Helen M. Rosenberg. Adoring father of Susan Rose and Leslie Nagy. Devoted grandfather of Julie Weiner, Carrie Pillar, Alissa and Pamela Nagy, whom he refe
 Curtis Jay Berger, who trained generations of aspiring lawyers in the fine points of real estate and property law, died on Monday at his home on the West Side of Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was cancer, according to Columbia Law School, where he was the Lawrence A. Wien Professor
 Richard Niles Bull, a dancer, choreographer and educator, died July 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was lung cancer, said Gill Wright Miller, a friend. A genial man who stood by his esthetic convictions with a wit that was at times cantankerous, Mr. Bull was
 Clyde de Loache Ryals, a Duke University English professor and an authority on British Victorian literature, died on Friday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 69. The cause was a brain tumor, said a friend, Fred Kaplan. Professor Ryals was a co-editor of a multivolume editio
 Jack Friedberg, an authority on currency and the former president of a nationwide coin dealership, died on June 14 at Scottsdale Health Care Hospital in Arizona. Mr. Friedberg, a Scottsdale resident, was 83 and formerly lived in Roslyn, N.Y. He was president of the Capitol Coin Comp
 FITZGERALD-The Reverend Peter A., C.M., 78, of the Vincentian Community at Niagara University, on July 10, 1998. Survived by his brothers Arthur and Matthew Fitzgerald, and his two sisters Jane Kelly and Eileen Ireland. Brother of the late Joseph Fitzgerald. Family will receive friends at V
 HARRIS-William. Beloved husband of Elaine Dinitz Harris and the late Sandra Harris. Devoted father of Gwen. Loving brother of Betty Witkin. Services Tuesday, 9:30 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. HARRIS-William. We mourn the loss of our dear
 HAUSMAN-Jack. Age 96. On July 10, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Ethel Hausman. Father of Richard and Michael and the late Peter Hausman. Grandfather of eight and great-grandfather of nine. Brother of Leo and the late Samuel Hausman and the late Anne Herrmann. Friends may call at Frank E
 KOO-Teh-Chang. Age 82. Died on July 9 in Kissimmee, FL. He was the eldest son of Dr. V.K. Wellington Koo. As a Lieutenant Colonel in the Chinese Air Force, he served with the Flying Tigers under General Chennault. He founded Dirksen, Inc., an international trading company in Taiwan. He is s
 POPPER-Victor. Dearly beloved and loving husband of Mara, died peacefully in his sleep on June 13. He lead a full and beautiful life and died a beautiful death. A renowned artist, former member of the Salmagundi Club, he was an official Coast Guard artist. He will be mourned and missed by u
 RAPPAPORT-Lester D. Died on July 11, 1998. Beloved husband of 52 years of Ileen. Loving father of Jane Diamond, Andrew Rappaport and Jill Rosell. Cherished father-in-law of Andrew Diamond, Debora Rappaport and Kurt Rosell. Devoted grandfather of seven grandchildren. He was the owner and pre
 ROTHSCHILD-Dr. Jacob. The Advanced Center for Psychotherapy of Queens, New York, mourns the passing of Dr. Jacob Rothschild, esteemed colleague and distinguished member of our staff for forty years. His dedication to his patients and generous sharing of knowledge with fellow clinicians were
 SONNEBORN-Henry III. American Friends of The Hebrew University mourn with sorrow the passing of Henry Sonneborn III. With deep appreciation we remember his extraordinary leadership and dedicated service as our President. A recipient of an honorary doctorate from The Hebrew University of Jer
 WOOLNER-James L., Jr. Age 48. Died July 12, 1998 at St. Vincent's Hospital, New York City. A graduate of Scarsdale High School, Washington University of St. Louis and the University of Chicago Law School, he was Assistant General Counsel of Prudential Enterprise Legal Services at the corpor
 Paul L. Klein, an executive who helped pioneer new forms of pay television, died on July 4 at the Plaza Fifty Suite Hotel in Manhattan, where he was staying with his wife. He was 69 and lived in Catskill, N.Y. He died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack, his family said.     
 Robert S. Burger, a former journalist and professor who later spent more than three decades teaching business executives how to write, died on July 5 at Chester County Hospital in West Chester, Pa. He was 84 and lived in West Chester. Mr. Burger, who was a reporter for The St. Paul 
 Ronald Lawrence Mace, a polio victim who devoted his life as an architect and industrial designer to devising environments suitable for all people regardless of age or condition, died on June 29 at his home in Raleigh, N.C. He was 58. The cause was heart arrhythmia resulting from po
 The Rev. George H. Dunne, a Jesuit priest who was an impassioned critic of racial segregation and prominent in ecumenical efforts to combat poverty and foster peace, died on June 30 in a hospital in Los Gatos, Calif., outside San Jose, near the Jesuit retirement community where he had been 
 Jack Hausman, a retired textile manufacturer who raised millions of dollars as a founder of New York and national organizations to benefit people with cerebral palsy, died on Friday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 96 and for many years also had a home on Long Island.      
 John Michael O'Mara, a retired vice president of New York University who had an earlier career as a rackets investigator, died on June 19 at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. A former resident of Leonia, N.J., he was 84 and more recently lived in Norwood, N.J. The 
 BERTSCHE-William I. Age 79. On July 11, 1998 of cancer. Beloved husband Alison; loving father of Copeland G., William N., Louise A. and Robert A. Bertsche, and Alison L. and William A. Gode-von Aesch. Dear brother of Edwin C. Bertsche and Edith C. Mitchell. Grandfather of ten, great-grandfa
 BREINER-James M. On July 12, 1998, of Bridgeport, CT, and Palm Beach, FL. Loving husband of Claire Breiner, devoted father of Steven (and wife Avor) Breiner, grandfather of Jill, Jonathan and Matthew Breiner, cherished brother of Elsie Klein, Julia (and husband Philip) Meshberg. Services Mo
 BYRNES-Jerry. Our friend and business associate of many years, you will be missed. From all of us at Colliers ABR, Inc., our sincerest condolences to his family and to his colleagues at TIAA.       
 GLUSS-Norman. 78 years of age, on July 11, 1998 in Stamford, CT. Husband of Vivian, father of David, Robert, and Susan. Grandfather of Samuel, Brian, Pamela, and Paula. Also survived by his sister Arlene Stringer Cuevas. Services were held on Monday, July 13th. Family will receive friends a
 HAUSMAN-Jack. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend and distinguished philanthropist who, with his late wife, Ethel, and brothers Leo and the late Samuel and their families, was a YU Guardian and Founder of the University's Albert Einstein College of Medicine
 KOO-Teh-Chang. Age 82. Died on July 9 in Kissimmee, FL. He was the eldest son of Dr. V.K. Wellington Koo. As a Lieutenant Colonel in the Chinese Air Force, he served with the Flying Tigers under General Chennault. He founded Dirksen, Inc., an international trading company in Taiwan. He is s
 MALKIN-Henry. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Henry Malkin, and extend our condolences to his dear wife, Marilyn, children, Francine, Gloria, and Maureen, to his dear sister Mila, and to his brother Joseph. Funeral to be held Wednesday July 15 at 9:00 A.M. at Schwartz Brothers, Que
 MAZER-William. The Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York mourns the passing of William Mazer, longtime member of the GSUC Board of Visitors and benefactor of the Joseph and Ceil Mazer Institute for Research and Advanced Studies in Judaica. We extend our de
 MILLS-John Porter. Died at home in NY on July 10, 1998 at age 94. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he was a graduate of Wesleyan University and had a long career as a mathematician with The Equitable. Husband of the late Sherring Mills. Survived by his daughter, Nancy Gilbert, brother Robert, grandchi
 NOVICK-Irving. On July 11, 1998 in The Bronx. Age 95. He was one of the organizers in the 1920 of the Committee for Aid to Foreign Born Workers, now known as the American Commitee for Aid to the Foreign Born, Founder of the Immigrants Technical Aid Bureau which he headed for 50 years. Mr. N
 SCHUCK-George, Jr. The Officers, Board of Directors and Members of the Association of Electrical Contractors, Inc, mourn the loss of George Schuck, Jr, chairman of the Joint Industry Board of Affiliation Electrical Contractors and Local No. 3, IBEW. He was a dedicated representative of our 
 SHAPIRO-Wallace. Distinguished Concertmaster and Associate Principal clarinet of the Goldman Band for 53 years. Mr. Shapiro was a consummate musician, loyal band member and beloved friend of the band. He will be sorely missed. Board of Directors, Music Director and Members of the Goldman Ba
 SONNEBORN-Henry, III, PhD. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute note with deep regret the passing of our good friend Henry Sonneborn, III. Past Chairman of the Board, he was a distinguished Trustee and a generous be
 WELDEN-Richard C. Died on June 29, 1998. Husband of Mary T. Welden. Father of Thorn, Wickford and Trafford. Brother of Robert E. Welden. Born May 6, 1924 in Hartford, CT. Graduate of Loomis, 1942, Yale University, 1948 and Harvard Law School, 1951. U.S. Army veteran of World War II serving 
 Maurice Sorrell, a photographer who covered the height of the civil rights era in the South and became the first black member of the White House Photographers Association,  died on June 22 at Providence Hospital in Washington. He was 84 and lived in Washington. Mr. Sorrell was a new
 DAVEY-Harry E., 77. Died peacefully Sunday, on his birthday, July 12, at his home in Southbury, CT. He attended Fordham University, & was a Freight Traffic Manager from 1947-1983, for Grace Line, Prudential Lines and Delta Steamship, serving in Peru with Grace Line from 1947-1958. He also w
 ENG-Dr. Lawrence died on July 11, 1998. Survived by his wife Mei Ling. We will all miss him. Viewing to be held at the Chinese Cheung Sang, 22 Mulberry Street, Chinatown on Friday, July 17, 3PM-8PM. Funeral service Saturday, 10 AM.       
 HAUSMAN-Jack. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the death of a legendary figure, Jack Hausman. Throughout his distinguished life, he was deeply committed to helping the less fortunate in our society. Along with his brothers, he was a
 HAYES-Julian L. On July 12, 1998, in Louisville, KY. In his 83rd year, beloved husband of 58 years of Nanette Hayes, father of Lea Fischbach, Susan MacDonald, Nanette Adkins, six grandchildren, two great-granddaughters. Formerly Director Public Relations of the Anaconda Company, Council of 
 JARWOOD-Arthur. Arthur Jarwood, June 26, 1998. My beloved husband, my dearest friend. There was never a love like yours. The cherished memories you've given me. The scent of you. The sight of you. The sound of you. The joy of you. You'll always be with me, so goodnight sweet prince. You'll 
 MAZER - William. American Friends of The Hebrew University is deeply saddened to hear of the death of William Mazer, a dedicated friend and supporter who understood the importance of The Hebrew University to Israel and the Jewish community around the world. We are indebted to him for his id
 McDONALD-Robert W. Age 48, of Evanston, IL. On July 11th, 1998. He is survived by his loving wife Donna, their daughter Maura and his brother John. He was a kind and gentle man who cared greatly for his family. A Mass will be held to celebrate his life on July 18, 1998, 10 A.M., at Saint At
 MILLETT-Daniel Caldwell. At 80, of Southbury, CT. Died on July 13. Beloved husband of Mary Allison Millett of Southbury, loving father of Daniel A. Millett of New Zealand, Allison M. Deen of Westminster, VT and Emilie M. O'Malley of Santa Monica, CA; grandfather of five. He graduated from S
 SONNEBORN-Henry. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened at the death of Henry Sonneborn III, a devoted and generous friend who exemplified the highest standards of philanthropy. His legacy of dedication to our mission inspired generatio
 STOVELL-James B. Of Mountain Lake, FL., July 14, died peacefully at his summer house in Greens Farms, CT. Beloved husband of Katherine, he is survived by his son, Peter of Fairfield, CT., his daughter Penrose Laffon of London, and his grandchildren, James, Peter, Rosie, and Mimi Stovell and
 Paul Q. Chow, who helped lead the effort to preserve and restore the Angel Island Immigration Station as the Ellis Island of the West Coast, died on June 30 at his home in San Francisco. He was 69. The cause was liver disease, said Daniel Quan, president of the Angel Island Immigrat
 Morris (Red) Badgro, whom Red Grange, the legendary running back, called ''one of best half-dozen ends I ever saw,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Kent, Wash., outside Seattle. He was 95 years old and the oldest living member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame. He had been hospitali
 Watkins M. Abbitt, a Virginia Democratic Congressman who advocated school segregation but supported a black candidate for governor more than 30 years later, died on Monday at Virginia Baptist Hospital in Lynchburg, Va. He was 90 and lived in Appomattox, Va. Mr. Abbitt had been suffe
 Nguyen Ngoc Loan, the quick-tempered South Vietnamese national police commander whose impromptu execution of a Viet Cong prisoner on a Saigon street in the Tet offensive of 1968 helped galvanize American public opinion against the war, died on Tuesday at his home in Burke, Va. He was 67 and
 HESS-Stephen R. Suddenly on July 14th, 1998 in Lenox, MA. Lifetime resident of New York City. Loving son of the late Leonard and Ruth Hess. Devoted brother of Katherine A. Hess. Special friend of Diane Dickinson. Beloved friend of so many others. Friends may call Thursday evening July 16th 
 LEIR-Henry J. Beloved husband of the late Erna D. Leir, died on July 15, 1998 at the grand age of 98. Henry J. Leir founded businesses in many countries. He began in his homeland in Germany at a very young age. He took refuge in Luxembourg in 1932, and has been a generous contributor to the
 LEVENE-Dr. Richard B. Passed away on July 13, 1998. Family is receiving on Sunday, July 19 from 1-5PM at home of his beloved mother, Bernice Levene, 15 Ingleside Lane, White Plains, NY.       
 LEWINTER-Regina Rezak. Died peacefully at eighty-nine years of age in her home in Edison, New Jersey on Wednesday, July 15th. Regina is survived by son, Paul and his wife, Shirlee of Westfield, New Jersey; son, Mel and his wife, Janet of New York City; grandchildren Suzanne, Sam, Donna (Rob
 MAZZEO-Joseph A. July 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Lucy (Welch). Also survived by his sisters, Mary Rinaldi, Mae Scolaro and Lauretta Korothy, and uncle of many nieces and nephews. Avalon Foundation Professor Emeritus in the Humanities of the Department of English & Comparative Literature at
 OFFENHARTZ - Harry Donald. President of the New Heritage Music Foundation, died on July 13, 1998 from complications of congestive heart failure. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. Called the ''last New Dealer'' by the NY Daily News, he was a Project Administrator for the WPA during the Roose
 SONNEBORN-Henry III. Witco Corporation joins in mourning the death of our Past President and Board Member. He was a special individual whose outstanding business abilities were complemented by a deep belief in the importance of sharing his good fortunes with others. His contributions to our
 YOUNG-William. Of Duxbury, MA. July 14, William C. 86. Beloved husband of Margaret E. (Klotz) of for 58 years. Father of Peter M. of Birmingham, AL, Margaret C. Robb of Summit, NJ, W. Mason of Manomet & John Sacret of Santa Monica, CA. He leaves 9 grandchildren, 2 brothers and 3 sisters. Se
 Richard McDonald, who with his brother Maurice revolutionized the way that billions of people around the world eat in fast-food restaurants, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Manchester, N.H. He was 89 and lived in nearby Bedford, N.H. From a single hamburger stand in San Bernard
 Mahbub ul Haq, a former Finance Minister of Pakistan and an early proponent of economic liberalization who in later years argued that poor countries failed to prosper because they neglected the basic development of their people, died yesterday in New York. He was 64. The cause of de
 BALDI-Virgil B. Of Greenwich, Conn. on June 15. Survived by his wife, Janet and four children; Malaga, Rebeca, Marta, Mark and four granddaughters. In lieu of flowers donations should be sent to the First Church of Round Hill Outreach Program, 464 Round Hill Road, Greenwich, Conn. 06830.   
 GERSHOWITZ-Louis. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Trustees and members of The City Club of New York record the passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest condolences to his wife Charlotte and the family.       
 KENT-Ernest E., M.D. Died peacefully July 12th at home in NYC. Remembered with love by his nieces and nephews, friends and colleagues at Bellevue and NYU Medical Centers. Memorial on Tuesday, July 21, 4:30PM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St. In lieu of flowers contributions t
 KRUMBEIN-Aaron D. The First Chairman of the Association of Orthodox Jewish Scientists (AOJS) Board of Governors, passed away in Shaare Zedek Hospital in Jerusalem, Israel on July 10, 1998. He was a graduate student in physics at New York University and a former Nahal Soreg Nuclear Research 
 LEIR-Henry J. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the loss of a most cherished friend of three decades. While small in physical stature, he was a giant of philanthropy and humanitarianism. Henry Leir was a visionary whose keen global insight into all spheres of life was truly remarkable. Wishing to 
 LEVENE-Dr. Richard B. Passed away on July 13, 1998. Family is receiving on Sunday, July 19 from 1-5PM at home of his beloved mother, Bernice Levene, 15 Ingleside Lane, White Plains, NY.       
 MACKSOUD-Alfred C., 79. Of Cambridge, N.Y. Died Tuesday July 7, 1998 at his residence in the company of his friends. He was the widower of Annette Connery Macksoud. Born March 21, 1919 in Hackensack, N.J., he was the son of Cheble and Leonie (nee Lallemand) Macksoud. He was a 1937 graduate 
 MITCHELL-Philip Crawford. Died suddenly July 16, 1998 in his home town of Bronxille, N.Y. A veteran of WW II, Mr. Mitchell flew a P47 Fighter Plane in the European Theater. Among his many decorations were the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal and the Purple Heart. In May 1998, he re
 O'DAIR-William J. Died after a long illness, on July 5th, age 68. Survived by his wife Margot M. O'Dair, and his daughters Barbara and Anne. He attended St. John's University and Columbia Law School. In 1976 Bill left a partnership at Carter, Ledyard and Milburn to become the Chief Legal Of
 POSNIAK-Abraham O., MD. Of Bal Harbour, FL. and Manhattan. Departed from this life the 14th of July, 1998. He leaves his wife Hanna and their children, Robert and Erica, and three grandchildren. Service Sunday the 19th of July at 12 noon at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenu
 SILVER-Walter. Of Greenwich Village and Fire Island. Died July 14. Photographer and teacher. In fond memory from his friends Sheila Schwartz, Joan Diamond, Anita and Bernard Friedman.       
 STERN-Milton H. Died July 10 at home in Florida at the age of 92. Beloved husband for 69 years of the late Hannah; adored father of Carole Selig and Robert Stern; loving grandfather of Gregory, Scott, Lydia, Claudia and the late Erica Ann. For over six decades, Milton was a celebrated home 
 Robert Gorham Davis, a prolific literary critic and a professor emeritus of English at Columbia University, died yesterday at the Vernon Hall Nursing Home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 90 and lived in Cambridge. Mr. Davis was the author of influential studies of John Dos Passos, C. P. 
 Henry J. Leir, who built a leading commodities trading firm and became a dedicated philanthropist after selling his company in 1968, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 98 and had gone to his New York office every day until Tuesday, said Steven Rosenthal, who had worked for Mr. Leir the 
 Sgt. Maj. Herbert J. Sweet, who served as the top enlisted marine during the corps' heaviest fighting in Vietnam, died on June 18 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 79. A Marine Corps statement said the cause was respiratory failure. Sergeant Major Sweet, who grew up in T
 James Flora, a magazine art director and children's book author and illustrator who in the early 1940's became one of the first artists to design and illustrate record album covers, helping to transform the way records were marketed, died on July 9 at his home in Rowayton, Conn. He was 84. 
 Joseph Anthony Mazzeo, a Renaissance scholar at Columbia University whose interests ranged from Egyptian hieroglyphics to biology to  television, died on July 6 in Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. He suffered a brief illness, said Iris L. Beller
 Octav Botnar, one of the first businessmen to import Japanese cars to Britain and whose last years were clouded by a huge tax scandal, died on July 11 at his home in Villars, Switzerland. He was 84. Mr. Botnar had been suffering from stomach cancer, British newspapers reported.     
 CORBIN-Carl E. Died in New York City July 17, 1998 of Multiple Myeloma. He was 61. Beloved husband of 33 years of Carolin Wildes Corbin. Loving son of Isabel Corbin & the late James Corbin of Webster, MA. Devoted brother-in-law of Clyde Wildes and Danny Walters of San Francisco, CA. Funeral
 FEIN-Joseph H., age 92, on June 13, 1998. Beloved husband of Martha. Loving father of Elliott, daughter-in-law Adele, and stepdaughter Ellen Snyder. Devoted grandfather of Elaine, Aaron and Melissa. Dear great-grandfather of Abra and Mira. He will be greatly missed.       
 GROETZINGER-Jon M. On July 16, 1998. A White Plains resident since 1950. Was President of the White Plains Regional Chamber of Commerce and Westchester Aquarium & Pet Supply Company. Voted 1972 White Plains Retailer of the Year, Paul Harris Fellow of Rotary International, and the 1st Annual
 LEIR-Henry. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn with great sorrow the passing of beloved friend and benefactor, Henry Leir. Through his commitment to our university, he made a significant contribution to the advancement of higher education and the strengthening of s
 PARRINELLO - Anthony, M.D. The members of the Board of Trustees of Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens mourn the passing of Dr. Anthony Parrinello, retired chairman of the department of occupational medicine and president and chief executive officer of Kennedy Medical Offices. We
 POSNIAK-Abraham O., MD. Of Bal Harbour, FL. and Manhattan. Departed from this life the 14th of July, 1998. He leaves his wife Hanna and their children, Robert and Erica, and three grandchildren. Service Sunday the 19th of July at 12 noon at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenu
 SCHARFE-Charles L. Of Babylon Village. On July 16, 1998. Longtime Chairman and CEO of L.K. Comstock Company, Inc. Husband of Susan. Father of George Scharfe and Coreen, the Rev. Marie Jerge and the Rev. James, Alan Scharfe and Leigh, Jaime, Christopher and Toby Smith. Grandfather of Gretche
 Robert Howe Connery, a prolific author as well as a teacher and administrator, died on July 3 at a retirement community in Falls Church, Va. He was 90. Dr. Connery taught at various universities for over four decades. He was the author, co-author or editor of more than a score of bo
 Alvin Chriss, a New York lawyer and sports administrator who created the system that allowed track and field athletes around the world to be paid, died on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 68 years old. His son Joel said brain cancer was diagnosed seven weeks ago. In 19
 Martin Seymour-Smith, a British literary critic, biographer, editor and poet whose more than 40 books ranged from an annotated compilation of Shakespeare's ''Sonnets'' in the original spelling to stylish, opinionated biographies of Rudyard Kipling, Robert Graves and Thomas Hardy, died on Ju
 CHRISS-Alvin. At age 68. A unique man of great knowledge, wisdom and vision. He lived each day to the fullest with great plans for the future. His incredible wit is legendary to all who ever were in his presence. His wife of 48 years, Rachelle, his children, Lisa, Alan, Joel, Daniel, Jodi a
 CORBIN-Carl E. Died in New York City July 17, 1998 of Multiple Myeloma. He was 61. Beloved husband of 33 years of Carolin Wildes Corbin. Loving son of Isabel Corbin & the late James Corbin of Webster, MA. Devoted brother-in-law of Clyde Wildes and Danny Walters of San Francisco, CA. Funeral
 GOLDBERG-Jack A. Who will be greatly missed by his family and friends died July 16, 1998. Services to be held at Bernheim-ApterGoldsticker, 1600 Springfield Avenue, Maplewood, N.J., Sunday, July 19th at 11:30 AM. With love, Roberta, April, Mitchell, Julie, Jake, Drew, Judith and Oscar      
 HAYES-Julian L. The Board of Directors of the North AmericanChilean Chamber of Commerce, Inc., mourn the untimely passing of our long-time dedicated fellow director and staunch friend. We will always remember him for his keen interest in promoting closer United States-Chilean relations. Our
 JOHNSON-Hugh G., 78. Of Vero Beach, FL. Died on July 5. Mr. Johnson was a retired Engineer and Trustee of the Dime Savings Bank of NY. Survived by his wife Rebecca, four sons Hugh, Jr, Timothy, Henry and Ian and seven grandchildren. Memorial service Saturday July 25, 11AM, St. Johns Church,
 LAPIDUS-Lawrence H. Beloved husband of Lois Lapidus, died peacefully after a long illness on July 16. Survived by 2 daughters, Saundra Lefcovich (Robert) and Laura Kaufman (Martin), and four grandchildren, Eric and Jessica Kaufman, Jaime & Michael Lefcovich, brother, Sheldon (Maribeth). Ser
 LAPSLEY-Claud A. Age 76, of Ormond Beach, FL, died at home on June 30, 1998. He is survived by his wife Jane, son William and three grandsons. He was a ship broker in New York City.       
 LEIR-Henry J. We mourn the passing of a true friend of JCT who only recently on his last trip to Israel personally visited our campus and students. His continued support has enabled us to educate future leaders, thus enhancing Israel's technological excellence. Our condolences to the family
 POSNIAK-Abraham O., MD. Of Bal Harbour, FL. and Manhattan. Departed from this life the 14th of July, 1998. He leaves his wife Hanna and their children, Robert and Erica, and three grandchildren. Service Sunday the 19th of July at 12 noon at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenu
 PROSSER-Walter R. Jr. Age 76 on July 1, 1998 of New York City and Center Moriches, NY. A beloved brother of Mary P. Kalbfleisch and Jennie P. Robinson. Uncle to Stephen A., John P. and Thomas W. Holthausen, Fred A. and Jeffrey P. Robinson. Great-uncle to Christian C. Gretchen A., Erica A. H
 SILVER-Walter. On July 14, 1998. Photographer and teacher at The School of Visual Arts. He will be fondly remembered by his many friends. A memorial party will be held in the future.       
 William I. Bertsche, who had such a rapid-fire way with recondite words that he spent his life rattling off more than a dozen languages into English, died on July 11 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., he was 79 and had been one of the nation's leading do
 Henry Rawle Geyelin Jr., a retired New York business executive who helped start Operation Sail for the 1976 Bicentennial and the tall ships' birthday salute to the Statue of Liberty in 1986, died July 5 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 79 and also had a home in Seal H
 John Henrik Clarke, an Alabama sharecropper's son whose thirst for unfettered knowledge led him to hop a freight train to New York and transform himself into an African history scholar who helped spur the development of black studies and who spent six decades as a gadfly fixture in the inte
 BALABAN - Sigmund. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of Aileen Silver, Mark and Barry Balaban. Cherished grandfather of Alanna and Beth Silver, Scott and Brian Balaban. Loving brother of Frieda Ashare and Reuben Balaban. He was the founder of Sigmund Balaban and Co., CPA's, a retire
 LEIR-Henry J. The Officers and Staff of American ORT mourn the passing of our friend and major supporter, Henry J. Leir. His dedication to the Jewish people, children and education is his legacy to the students of ORT. We extend heartfelt condolences to his sister, Hedy Weiger and his famil
 WEINSTEIN-Louis. On July 16, he passed quietly at 100 years old. A gentle man and a gentleman who will be remembered by all who knew him with love and respect. Beloved husband of 62 years of the late Irene and of Susan for 11 years; adored father of Eleanor, Herbert and Lenore; cherished gr
 Thomas Corwin Mendenhall, the sport of rowing's foremost American historian and a former president of Smith College, died on Saturday at Windemere, a long-term care facility on Martha's Vineyard, where he and his wife lived. He was 88. The cause was cardiac arrest after a long illne
 Dr. David H. Nichols, a surgeon whose research on pelvic reconstruction and incontinence focused attention on the long-neglected medical needs of women in their 60's, 70's and 80's, died on Wednesday in his office at Brown University. He was 72 and lived in Providence, R.I. The caus
 Frank Xavier Altimari, a senior Federal appeals judge who wrote the ruling that affirmed the ban on begging in city subways and transit terminals, died on Sunday at his home in Old Westbury, N.Y. He was 69. The cause was brain cancer, said his daughter, Vera Shields. As a ju
 Joseph Maher, a veteran character actor of extraordinary range who was best known for his roles in the mordant comedies of Joe Orton, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 64. The cause was a brain tumor, said Joan Scott, his agent. Over more than four decades, M
 BALABAN-Sigmund. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 BERGMAN-Bernard B. The partners and staff of George R. Funaro & Company P.C. mourn the passing of their former partner and colleague, Bernard B. Bergman. His guidance and wisdom during the past fifty years will long be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Doris and daugh
 COOPER-Sidney. For over fifty years we shared a wonderful, caring friendship that we shall never forget. To Florence, Natalie, Sidney, Neil, Elena, and his loving grandchildren, we grieve with you and share your deep sorrow. We shall treasure Sidney's memory as we treasured his life. Hortie
 GEER-Stephen Dubois. Died at his home in New York City, on Saturday, July 18th, 1998, at age 67 following a long illness. He will be remembered for his devotion to his children William, Catherine, Michael, Nancy and Sabrina Geer, and to his six grandchildren. He will also be remembered for 
 GINSBURG-Arthur J. The Partners, Associates & Staff of Frankfurt, Garbus, Klein & Selz mourn the death of Arthur J. Ginsburg, a friend, colleague & partner since the inception of the firm more than 20 years ago. His patience, tenacity and insight will be greatly missed. We extend our condol
 GORDON-Philip. Of Lincolndale, N.Y. and Lake Worth, Florida on July 19, peacefully at home. 96 years old, a man of strength and determination with a clever wit will be remembered with love and respect. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Diana. Deeply loved by his children Natalie Berke
 LEIBEL-Norman. On July 8, 1998, in New York. Resident of Golden Lakes in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Edith. Father and friend to his daughter, Susan, and son Jeffrey and daughter-inlaw Gwen. Devoted grandfather of Ezra, Kara, Tess, Matt, & Jason. Funeral was held in N.Y., July 1
 LEIR-Henry J. The officers, board & staff of the American Technion Society express profound regret at the loss of Henry Leir of New York City, a philanthropist and major benefactor of many Jewish causes. As a supporter of the American Technion Society, he demonstrated great vision and commi
 LEVOW-Samuel. Tifereth IsraelTown and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Carol Green, President       
 LEVY-Aaron, 87. Passed away at his home in North Miami, FL., after a brief illness. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Loving father of Esther (Michael) Blynn and Steven (Schelly) Levy. Beloved grandfather of Jeremy, Elisa and Sharon Blynn. Dear brother of Simcha (Fredzia), Joseph and Jac
 MAFFEI-Frank G. The Management Team of CORE Services at the Mount Sinai Hospital New York join in mourning the untimely passing of Frank Maffei, a leader, mentor, and close friend of so many whose lives he touched in his 13 year career. Our love is extended to his wife Lisa, his two daughte
 MOORE-Wayne Doxsee. Of Islip, NY, July 19, 1998 at the age of 80. Beloved husband of Margaretha ''Peggy'' Moore. Cherished father of Kathleen Doxsee Moore Gamboa and Kevin Doxsee Moore. Father-in-law of Melanie Moore and Joe John Gamboa. Devoted grandfather of Caroline Doxsee Moore & Charle
 REZNIKOFF-Abraham. The faculty and staff of Columbia School of Public Health mourn the loss of Abraham Reznikoff, father of our friend and colleague, Rosalie Acinapura. Mr. Reznikoff, age 88, died on July 16 in Santa Monica, CA. He will be grealty missed and we send our sincere condolences 
 RIMMEIR-Paul, 73. A resident of Miami and Philadelphia passed away Friday, July 17, 1998, in Philadelphia. He had been a resident of Miami for over 50 years. Paul will be sadly missed by Janice, his beloved wife of 33 years, his son Spencer, grandchildren Stephanie and Jacob, and his many d
 TARTARO-Angelo Joseph, 58. Of North Hills, CA., passed away on July 16, 1998. Angelo is survived by his loving wife Vivian, Devoted daughter Vanessa & son Angelo. Angelo was a retired New York City police captain. He was former NY State Commissioner as well as past President of Footprinters
 WEISS-Stuart. On July 19, 1998. Beloved husband of Elaine Weiss. Adored father of Joel Weiss of Laurel Hollow, N.Y. and Pattie Weiss Levy of West Hartford, CT. Devoted grandfather of Charlie and Suzannah Weiss, and Aidan and Allegra Levy. He is also survived by two brothers, Gerard Weiss an
 Bob McAllister, who talked his way into a television career without moving his lips, became the host of an acclaimed children's show, then made magic his metier, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 and best known for his decade as the ebullient, Buster Brown-coiffed host of '
 Miroslav Holub, the Czech poet and immunologist known for his ironic wit, his impatience with irrationality and his knifelike poetry full of scientific imagery, died on July 14 in Prague, where he lived. He was 74. One of the major Eastern European poets to emerge after World War II
 ALTIMARI-Frank X. The Touro Law Center's faculty, administration, staff, students and alumni mourn the loss of Judge Altimari, a great jurist and humanitarian. Judge Altimari was deeply involved with the Law Center. He inaugurated our Distinguished Jurist in Residence program and was a belo
 BAESZLER-Donald. Passed away July 18, 1998. Formerly of Beverly Hills CA., and Staten Island, NY. He was a retired 27 year veteran homicide detective of the New York City Police Department. He was a recipient of the medal of valor from the police department. He is survived by a son Donald, 
 BENNETT-Philip Oliver. Of Upper Montclair, on July 17, 1998. Blind since birth, he overcame his disability with great courage and strength of character. He was a graduate of the Oberlin Conservatory of Music. He was a classical musician as well as a distinguished society orchestra leader in
 CLARKE-John Henrik. The Hunter College community notes with sadness the passing of John Henrik Clarke, a distinguished, selftaught and outspoken scholar. Founder and former Chairman of the Hunter College Black and Puerto Rican Studies Department, prolific author and editor, Mr. Clarke revol
 ERDFARB-Ruth. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our past president and member, Martin Erdfarb, and family on the loss of his beloved mother. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabb
 FEUER-Bernard. On July 21, of heart failure. Beloved husband of Marcia, father of Stephanie and grandfather of the Miles Feuer Hamberg. Retired administrator of Queens Manor and Brookhaven Beach Nursing Homes. Far Rockaway Man of the Year 1974. Served on Board of Temple Israel, Lawrence. Fo
 KIVLEHAN-Denis, 66. Of Orangeburg, died on July 19, 1998 at his home. Mr. Kivlehan was born on July 4th, 1932 in Tubbercurry, County Sligo, Ireland, to Thomas and Bridget Kivlehan. He was married to Brigid (Della) Oates. A resident of Orangeburg since 1962, he formerly lived in the Bronx. M
 KOPP-Bruce. The Faculty, Candidates & Graduates of The Postdoctoral Programs in Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy of Adelphi University join in mourning the untimely death of their colleague, mentor and friend, Dr. Bruce Kopp. Your energy, courage, intelligence, love and concern will be deep
 LEVOW-Samuel. Tifereth IsraelTown and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Carol Green, President       
 MERSON-Albert. Age 82, of Aventura, FL and Fort Lee, NJ, on July 20, 1998. Survived by his children Andrew and Catherine Merson, and his grandchildren Steven and Loren Merson. Contributions may be made to National Parkinsons Association, NY, NY. Services are 12 Noon, today, at Robert Schoem
 Alan B. Shepard Jr., the first American to fly in space, lifting national spirits at a decisive moment of cold war anxiety, and later one of only 12 astronauts to walk on the Moon, died late Tuesday night at a hospital in Monterey, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Houston and Pebble Beach, Cal
 Dr. Charles L. Wisseman, an expert on insect-borne diseases who headed the microbiology department at the University of Maryland School of Medicine for 32 years, died on July 12 at the University of Maryland Hospital in Baltimore. He was 78 and lived in nearby Cockeysville, Md. The 
 Corbett Monica, the durable comedian whose gentle jokes went down so well for so long that he spent more than 40 years touring as the opening act for Frank Sinatra and other big name singers, died yesterday at his home in North Miami, Fla. He was 68 and best recalled by television audiences
 BRICHTA-Paul. Of Great Neck, N.Y. on July 21, 1998. Beloved and devoted husband of Hannah, loving and proud father and friend of Elaine Marks and her husband Aaron, and Lisa and her financee Jonathan, brother-in-law of Steven and Lois Glassman and uncle of Laura and Michael. He will always 
 FEUER-Bernard. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Bernard Feuer, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Marcia and daughter Stephanie. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Robert Fensterman, Secretary FEUER-Be
 FRY-Willie, Jr. Died of a heart attack July 10, 1998 in New York City. He was 44 years old. He played for the Pittsburgh Steelers from 1978 to 1980 when the team won back-to-back Super Bowls. Retiring from professional football, Willie worked on Wall Street until his death. Willie is surviv
 HAYES-Julian. Presbyterian Senior Services mourns the loss of a good friend and board member. Our condolences to his wife Nanette, children and grandchildren. Dave Taylor, Executive Director and Board of Directors       
 LEIR-Henry J. The Board of Trustees, the President, the Administration, and the Faculty and Staff of Clark University mourn the passing of their friend and supporter of many projects of mutual interest in Luxembourg. Through his generous support of CECIL (The Clark European Center in Luxemb
 MUNSON - Charles Sherwood (''Sherry''). Died at his home in Hobe Sound, FL. on Tuesday, July 21, 1998, in his 86th year. Beloved husband of Celia Deming Munson. Father of Marjorie Smith Munson and Jane Rust Munson Harrison, stepfather of Sharon Harts Wick and Deanne Harts Mallory, and grand
 WOLF-Herbert. The Board of Governors and members of Tam O'Shanter Club are saddened by the passing of their member, Herbert Wolf. Our sincere condolences are extended to his wife Janice and the family. Robert Katz, President Donald Freedman, Secretary       
 Robert Young, an actor who created solid, wholesome, common-sense characters on television in ''Father Knows Best'' and ''Marcus Welby, M.D.,''  died on Tuesday night at his home in Westlake Village, a Los Angeles suburb. He was 91. After a prolific career as a dependable film actor
 Don Dunphy, the nasal-voiced announcer who brought the Friday night fights into America's living rooms in the era when voices had faces, died on Wednesday night at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 90. In a career marked by his election to 10 halls of fame, Mr. Dunphy, wit
 Hermann Prey, the German baritone who was in the 46th year of an international career as an acclaimed singer of lieder and opera, died on Wednesday night in Munich. He had recently turned 69. The cause of death was a heart attack, according to Sissy Strauss, an artistic liaison at t
 Mark Hampton, the interior decorator whose relaxed traditionalism was embraced by America's stylish elite, making him a celebrated symbol of gracious living for decades, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 58 and had homes in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y. 
 BAIRD-Robert B. The Board of Directors of Central Suffolk Hospital mourn the passing of our colleague, Robert B. Baird. His valuable insight regarding the well being of the residents of our community, as well as his candor and humor will be remembered forever. Jesse R. Goodale, III, Chairma
 BRICHTA-Paul. An inspiration to so many and loved by all who knew him. Michael Beckman       
 BUTLER-John F. Longtime enthusiast of thoroughbred racing and a director of the National Horse Show Association of America, died July 22 at age 90 in his Manhattan home after a three year illness following a stroke. Mr Butler, born in New York City on September 2, 1907, graduated Georgetown
 CHRISTOPHERSON-Donovan R. (''Dick''), 65, of Scottsdale, died on July 14, 1998. He was born in Ostrander, MN. on November 22, 1932. He graduated form St. John's University in Collegeville, MN in 1954, served as an officer in the U.S. Navy, and went on to earn his Master of Business Administ
 FLEISLER-Irving. Devoted husband of the late Alice. Beloved father of Barbara Schloss & Ellen Schechter. Cherished grandfather of Robin, Jeffrey, Michael, Richard, Jonathan & Caroline. Loving great grandfather of Jeremy, Alex and Andrew. Services are today at 11 A.M. at Beth David Cemetery,
 FROST-Winston Henry. Of Middleburg, VA, 85, died in West Palm Beach July 22 after a long illness. Mr. Frost, an attorney, was associated with Appleton, Rice, & Perrin in NYC. An avid sportsman, he excelled in polo and court tennis. Graduated from Harvard University ('35) and University of V
 GRECO-Edmund. We mourn the loss of our dear and longtime friend and offer our deep condolences to his wife and family. Algernon Miller Constance Miller       
 MONICA-Corbett. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Corbett Monica on July 22, 1998. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at the Menorah Chapel, Aventura, Florida on Saturday, July 25
 PREY-Hermann. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our dear friend and colleague, Hermann Prey. In his seven seasons with the company, he sang 66 performances and illuminated each of his seven roles with warmth and depth of understanding. He will long be remembered for his dashing Fig
 RUBIDGE-Bradley Scott. Beloved and loving husband of Jane Real Rubidge, son of Nell and Burce Rubidge, brother of William B. and Cindy Rubidge, colleague of the faculty of the French Department of New York University, Monday, July 20, 1998. A service will be held Saturday, July 25, at 11 A.
 SAURA-Antonio. In Cuenca Spain, on Wednesday, July 22, after a long bout with leukemia. Leaves his wife Mercedes, his daughter Marina, his brother Carlos, and his sister. Antonio Saura was a talented painter and his humanism and his modesty were known to all who knew him. Services private. 
 SILVER-Hon. Simon. Retired NYC Criminal Court Judge, passed away July 23, 1998 at age 92. A graduate of NYU Law School, he also served the City with the Corporation Counsel. Simon was always lovingly available to family and friends with sage advice. Judge Silver leaves his beloved wife Ethe
 SILVER-Simon. We are diminished by the loss of our devoted, dedicated past President, who was a most important influence and help to us for over 40 years. Condolences to his life partner, Ethel, his sons, sisters and all the family. East End Temple Helene Spring, President Deborah A. Hirsch
 SMITH-Lewis Lofsky. Of Great Neck, New York. Died peacefully at his home on Tuesday, July 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Beth Pearlman Smith; caring and loving father of Ethan Lofsky Smith and Rachel Lofsky Smith; son-in-law of Alexander W. Pearlman; brotherin-law of Deborah Pearlman and Elly
 WRIGHT-Garland. The acting company, artistic and administrative staffs, and Board of Trustees of The Shakespeare Theatre in Washington, D.C. mourns the loss of their beloved colleague, Garland Wright. One of the most brilliant theatre directors of his generation, Garland will be sorely miss
 Buck Mickel, who helped bring about the corporate marriage that created the modern Fluor Corporation in 1977, died on Thursday at his home in Greenville, S.C. He was 72. A Fluor spokeswoman said that Mr. Mickel, who had seemed in good health, had apparently died in his sleep. No cau
 Murray Patrick, who was raised in a legendary family of professional hockey players and builders in the middle decades of the century and became a player, coach and general manager of the Rangers, died Thursday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 83. His son, Dick, said that Patr
 DICKSTEIN-Reuben. Of Elmwood Park, New Jersey, & Boca Raton, FL passed away on July 23, 1998. He was the devoted & loving husband of Elaine Davick Dickstein, the beloved uncle of Jay and Robert Ackerman, Bill, Dale and Chad Borer, and Mark, Robin, Melanie and Emily Gelfand, and the loving b
 DINESCU-Leonard, M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of a colleague and teacher. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to his family. Albert Ciancimino, M.D., President, Medical Staff Morton Davidson, M.D., Med. Dir
 GIMAN-Arthur A. A prominent Long Island businessman and the founder and CEO of Jomart Inc., died at his home in Jericho, NY on July 23, 1998. The cause of death was complications due to cancer. Mr. Giman founded Jomart Inc. in Manhattan in 1963, and built it into a leading regional printing
 HAMPTON-Mark. On July 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Duane. Adored father of Kate and Alexa. Devoted brother of Rachel Blank and uncle of Betsy Regan & Mark Blank. Services at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th Street, Monday, July 27, 11:00AM. Contributions in his memory may be 
 MANN-Dr. Robert. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime former member Dr. Robert Mann and extends to his bereaved wife Ina and the members of his family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Se
 MAZURE-Roberta C. On July 23, 1998. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of Lisa and Caren. Adoring grandmother of Sara and Harris. Daughter of Jean. Sister of Eileen. Aunt of Michael. Her strong will, warm heart and great generosity will always be remembered. Visiting Saturday, 7-9PM. Serv
 SAURA-Antonio. In Cuenca Spain, on Wednesday, July 22, after a long bout with leukemia. Leaves his wife Mercedes, his daughter Marina, his brother Carlos, and his sister. Antonio Saura was a talented painter and his humanism and his modesty were known to all who knew him. Services private. 
 WRIGHT-Garland. The acting company, artistic and administrative staffs, and Board of Trustees of The Shakespeare Theatre in Washington, D.C. mourn the loss of their beloved colleague, Garland Wright. One of the most brilliant theatre directors of his generation, Garland will be sorely misse
 ZUCKER-Henry L. The Officers, Trustees & staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee express their deep sorrow at the loss of Henry L. Zucker, a long time Honorary member of the JDC Board & a leader in American Jewry. Henry served JDC overseas after World War II and conducted 
 Tazio Secchiaroli, the celebrity-hounding photographer who was the inspiration for Paparazzo, a central character in Federico Fellini's 1960 movie ''La Dolce Vita,'' died in his sleep on Friday at his home in Rome at age 73. His son, David, said the cause was a heart attack. Mr. Sec
 Abraham I. Katsh, a scholar of Judaica and Hebrew studies who introduced modern Hebrew to American university classrooms, and a relentless researcher who persuaded the Soviet authorities to allow him to reproduce thousands of Jewish documents in their custody at the height of the cold war, 
 Charles Haskill, the former president of the shipbuilding company that made the Edmund Fitzgerald, a freighter whose demise during a storm in Lake Superior was memorialized in a popular song by Gordon Lightfoot, died on July 16 at his home in Farmington Hills, Mich. He was 94. The c
 Prof. Charles William Mann Jr., a sleuth of the unpublished Hemingway and the keeper of rare books at Pennsylvania State University for the last four decades, died on July 17  at his home in Baltimore. He was 68 and also lived in State College, Pa. The cause was a heart attack,  Pen
 Garland Wright, a versatile stage director who was for many years the artistic director of the Tyrone Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his friend Cynthia Mayeda.      
 Michael Denison, who epitomized the English gentleman in scores of roles on stage, screen, television and radio and who, with Dulcie Gray, formed one of acting's most durable husband-and-wife teams, died on Wednesday at his home in Amersham, a Buckinghamshire town about 30 miles southwest o
 AZIA-Herman. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Herman Azia and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Yvette and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Norman Doctor, President       
 BURSTEIN-Irving. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its member Devora Burstein. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 DIGGES LA TOUCHE-William O. on Monday, July 13 at the age of 55. A resident of Lambertville, New Jersey, he is survived by his brothers, Pendar and David, his sister, Phyllis Rawlins, his newphew, Kit, and his uncle, Oliver Pendar. A memorial service will be held at 2:00 PM, on Saturday, Au
 GREENBERG - Herbert. The Trustees and staff of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourn the passing of Herbert Greenberg, husband of our esteemed Trustee, Mickey Greenberg. We extend or heartfelt sympathies to the entire Greenberg family. Saul B. Katz Chairman John S.T. Gallag
 HAMPTON-Mark. On July 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Duane. Adored father of Kate and Alexa. Devoted brother of Rachel Blank and uncle of Betsy Regan & Mark Blank. Services at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th Street, Monday, July 27, 11:00AM. Contributions in his memory may be 
 MANUGUERRA-Matteo. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our beloved colleague, Matteo Manuguerra. An uncommonly eloquent interpreter of the great baritone roles in the Italian and French repertory, he sang 127 performances of 15 roles with the company following his debut as Enrico in 
 MAYER-Rev. Joseph. We mourn the passing of East Midwood Jewish Center's devoted and longtime associate cantor, a superb Ba-al Koreh, whose dedication to Jewish life and learning will continue to inspire his wife, Anne, devoted family and generations of Bar and Bat Mitzvah students whom he t
 OPPENHEIMER-Donald R., Sr., 86, on July 22, 1998 in Reading, PA. at the home of his son with whom he was visiting. Former member and Trustee of Union Temple Brooklyn, NY. Survived by his wife Miriam (London) Oppenheimer of Weston, FL, formerly of 70 Minna Street, Brooklyn, New York. Also su
 PREY-Hermann. The Board, Artist Members and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center mourn the loss of Hermann Prey. In the first of many memorable appearances, Mr. Prey sang Schumann's ''Dichterliebe'' with Founding Artistic Director Charles Wadsworth at the inaugural concert o
 RUBEN-Richards. A great artist, teacher, friend, raconteur, and lover of life, died in Venice, Italy, Tuesday, July 21. The artists, collectors, friends and employees of the Anita Shapolsky Gallery feel a great loss of a special person. His humanity touched everyone who came into contact wi
 WOLF-Herbert Selig. On July 20, 1998, after a long illness. Survived by his wife, two children and two grandchildren. Mr. Wolf was Vice President and CFO of Accent Supply Company. Donations may be sent to the Brain Tumor Society, Boston, MA., or National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD.     
 WRIGHT-Garland. The acting company, artistic and administrative staffs, and Board of Trustees of The Shakespeare Theatre in Washington, D.C. mourn the loss of their beloved colleague, Garland Wright. One of the most brilliant theatre directors of his generation, Garland will be sorely misse
 ZUCKER-Henry L. The American Friends of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn with great sorrow the passing of Henry L. Zucker of Cleveland, Ohio, an Honorary Governor of The Hebrew University and member of AFHU's Council of Trustees. In 1989, he was the recipient of the Scopus Award, th
 KLEIN-Felix. January 17, 1911July 26, 1994. His love and wisdom still inspire and strengthen us. Founder of the National Society for Graphology, headquartered in Manhattan. His teaching legacy endures through the newly established Felix Klein Academy for Gestalt Graphology. In devoted remem
 LEWIS-Morton V. July 27, 1923March 18, 1986. His bright light faded too soon like a shower of shooting stars. Remember him for a little while longer, friends.       
 Raymond D. Gerwe, a chemist and developer of two United States patents, died July 12 of congestive heart failure. He was 94 and lived in Lakeland, Fla. Mr. Gerwe was born in Cincinnati on May 28, 1904. He received a bachelor's degree in chemistry and mathematics from Miami Universit
 HALEY-Deacon Robert J. At the age of 75. On July 25, 1998 at Ellis Hospital, Schenectady, after suffering a stroke. Formerly of Wantagh, NY. Ordained to the Permanent Diaconate in 1980. He served God and his fellow man faithfully for many years. Beloved husband of the late Margaret (nee Kel
 HAMPTON-Mark. On July 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Duane. Adored father of Kate and Alexa. Devoted brother of Rachel Blank and uncle of Betsy Regan & Mark Blank. Services at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th Street, Monday, July 27, 11:00AM. Contributions in his memory may be 
 HERKNESS-Lindsay C., Jr. The Governing Body, Administration and Medical Staff of Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital extend deepest sympathy to our devoted Board President and friend, Lindsay C. Herkness III on the passing of his father, Lindsay C. Herkness, Jr. Our sincere condolences to 
 JACKINSON-Alex. The longtime head of the Alex Jackinson Literary Agency died on July 14, 1998, at age 93. He was also an author and poet. He is survived by his niece June Schnur and his nephew Murray Jacobson.       
 KUPIN-Nathan. The loving family of Nathan Kupin express with deepest sorrow the loss of a truly great human being. His love will always be in our hearts. Services will be held at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY, at 10 AM, Tuesday, July 28. KUPIN
 LEVY-Donald. Of Boynton Beach, FL. On July 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Adrienne. Devoted father of Billy, Steven, Caryl and Arlene. Loving grandfather of Eric, Jamie, Brian and Jessica. Brother of Seymour. He will live in our hearts forever. Funeral services Tuesday, 10 AM, at Riverside Ch
 NEWMAN-Ralph G. Age 86. An internationally recognized book dealer, author, and Lincoln scholar. Died July 23 at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Newman was the former owner of a famous Chicago bookstore devoted to Lincoln which he ran in various locations for 62 years. He co-f
 PLOSS-Leon. Saturday, July 25. Devoted and loving husband of Edith for 59 years. Loving father of daughters Sandra and Barbara. Proud and loving grandfather of Hayley, Brian, Denise and Tammy. A quick mind, a fun loving person with a great sense of humor. A graduate and advocate of the Law 
 POLLER-Rabbi H. Leonard. Larchmont Temple-Har Chayim records with deep sorrow the death of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus, H. Leonard Poller. Rabbi Poller served as the Senior Rabbi of Larchmont Temple-Har Chayim from 1972 to 1994. Rabbi Poller was ordained at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Instit
 RAZAR-Harold. We mourn the loss of our Founder, past President and Executive Director. A dedicated man to his family, friends and our Synagogue. Our deepest condolences to his wife Selma, his sons Michael and David, and families. May G-d comfort all the mourners among the mourners of Zion a
 WRIGHT-Garland. The acting company, artistic and administrative staffs, and Board of Trustees of The Shakespeare Theatre in Washington, D.C. mourn the loss of their beloved colleague, Garland Wright. One of the most brilliant theatre directors of his generation, Garland will be sorely misse
 Rex Applegate, a member of the storied O.S.S. who taught fellow intelligence officers how to kill an enemy quickly, and preferably silently, in face-to-face combat during World War II, died on July 14 in the University of California at San Diego Medical Center. He was 84 years old and lived
 Roland (Tiny) Rowland, the British business tycoon labeled ''the unacceptable face of capitalism'' by Prime Minister Edward Heath in the 1970's but hailed by Nelson Mandela as a friend of Africa, died on Saturday in London, The Observer reported today. He was 80. Mr. Rowland had bee
 Tossy Spivakovsky, a violinist and teacher who developed a special bowing technique for the performance of the solo Bach suites, and who gave the first American performances of Bartok's Second Violin Concerto, died on July 20 at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 91. Mr. Spivakovsky
 Henri Ziegler, a trained pilot and commander of the Free French Air Force in World War II who helped start some of Europe's most ambitious postwar aviation projects, including the Concorde supersonic jetliner and the Airbus civilian airliner program, died at a nursing home in Paris on July 
 Tal Farlow, one of jazz's best-known guitarists, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in Sea Bright, N.J., and Manhattan. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his wife, Michele Hyk-Farlow. Mr. Farlow, one of the early 
 Matteo Manuguerra, a French baritone who was admired for his versatility and dramatic acuity, died in Montpellier, France, on Thursday. He was 73 and lived in Montpellier. He died of congestive heart failure three days after a stroke, his manager, Robert Lombardo, said. Star
 BAIRD-Robert B. II of Quogue, N.Y., passed away on Wednesday, July 22, while on vacation in Spain. He was born on January 1,1923 in Brooklyn, N.Y. and grew up in both Brooklyn and Quogue. His wife, Barbara Arnold Baird, survives him. He is also survived by 15 children, Margaret M. Baird, Ba
 CASTRO-Manny, 68. On July 16th, 1998, co-founder of ABD Securities. Beloved by wife Janet, daughter Anne, son Michael and his wife Jeanette, brother Steve Pivacek and his wife Lavonne. Memorial service September 6th, First Unitarian Church, Monroe Place, Brooklyn Heights, 1:30PM.       
 FARLOW-Talmage Holt (Tal). On July 25, 1998. Jazz guitarist extraordinaire and gentle friend to all who knew him. Beloved husband of Michele (nee Hyk) and loving brother of Charlotte Toppino and uncle of Mary Jane Rojas. Funeral services are to be at the West End Collegiate Church at 77th a
 FITZGIBBON-Daniel Francis, on July 26, 1998. Beloved father of Kathleen Fitzgibbon, Pamela Rickman and Gavin Fitzgibbon. Grandfather of Romagna Margaret, Vance Francis, Christina, Zachary, Isabel and Nicholas. Brother of Kathleen. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Str
 FORMAN-William. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus of Mathematics William Forman, Class of 1936. His 60 years of teaching, interrupted only by military service during World War II, and his professional contributions, which continued from his formal retir
 GREENBERG - Herbert. The board of directors, other volunteers, and staff of the United Hospital Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of our good friend and long-time supporter. His community commitment, strong values, infectious good humor, and kind and vital spirit set him apart and endear
 HAMPTON-Mark. The Trustees, Fellows and Staff of the American Academy in Rome mourn the loss of our treasured Trustee and friend, Mark Hampton. As a dedicated preservationist, historian, and decorator, for 15 years he has been a driving force behind our building restoration efforts. He joyo
 HIGGINS-Austin D., 80. Died at his home in Cape Elizabeth, ME., on July 23, 1998. He was a graduate of Groton School & Yale University, Class of 1943. He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Ellen, five children, two sisters, one brother and fifteen grandchildren. A memorial service will be
 HYDE-Donald R. Of Devon, PA. Passed away at his home after a courageous battle with cancer on Saturday, July 25. Husband of Margaret Willets Hyde. Father of Jeffrey W., Donald R., and Lawrence W. Hyde. Grandfather of Matthew W. and Jennifer A. Hyde. Brother of Barbara H. Crafford and Harrie
 KATSH-Abraham I. We deeply mourn the death of our former President. He was a distinguished Professor, scholar, researcher and linguist. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife Estelle and to his entire family. May they find comfort amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The Jewish A
 KATZEN-Solomon. Of Deerfield Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, New York, on July 27, 1998 at home with his family. Beloved husband of Matalie for 54 years. Father of Joel and Roy. Grandfather to Daniel, Rachael, Ezra, Alisha, Hannah, Jacob & Joshua. Will be fondly remembered for his integrit
 KUPIN-Nat. Mentor, advisor and friend. We will miss your wise counsel, your constant encouragement and your total understanding of the practicalities of life. Your unique philosophy will remain with us forever. Our love and sympathy to Ruthie, Barbara and the entire family. Judy and Simmy  
 LATSEY-Van Peter. A prominent gynecologist/obstetrician passed away on July 28, 1998. Dr. Latsey graduated from Medical School at the University of Athens and trained at Boston City Hospital and St. Luke's Hospital in New York City. He remained on staff at St. Luke's and served as Chief of 
 LAUFER-Simon. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed Trustee, beloved husband of Fran Laufer, past President of its Women's Club, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda
 LEWIS-Nathan L., 81 years old. Died July 27. Husband of Ruth, father of Robert, grandfather of Sam, father-in-law of Jane, brother of Al, Fay, Irving, Lee and Ceil. Former Administrator of Radiology Department, Queens Hospital Center. Former Associate Professor of X-Ray Technology, C.W. Pos
 MANUGUERRA-Matteo. Opera Orchestra of New York mourns the death of this great baritone. He sang seven operas with OONY: L'Africana, Francesca di Rimini, I Masnadieri, Lucrezia Borgia, Il Duca d'Alba, La Battaglia di Legnano, and La Wally. He was always a joyful colleague. We extend our hear
 OLIVIERI-Israel. On July 28, 1998. Beloved husband of Sonia Villanueva. Devoted father of Israel Jr. and Anthony. Dearest grandfather of Ariana. Beloved son of Rosa Martin Olivieri. Also survived by three sisters and two brothers. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue a
 PERELSTEIN-Jacob (Yasha). Of Brookline, MA., July 23, at age 90. Beloved husband of Zofia Sonia (Rabinowitz) Perelstein. Devoted father of Ami (Henry) Perry of Brookline, MA, and Michael Mark & Elizabeth (Borowitz) Perelstein of London, England. Cherished grandfather of Danna and Sharon Per
 QUINN-Thomas J. Age 96 of Middle Village and Boynton Beach, FL died July 26, 1998. Mr. Quinn was retired from New York Telephone Company after 45 years of service. He was the loving husband of the late Marie R. Quinn. Survived by his daughter, Barbara Q. (Henry) Aneiro; son, Alan T. (Bertha
 RATTNER - Gabriel (George). Passed away peacefully July 26, 1998 at age 76 after a courageous struggle with ALS. Before contracting the disease in 1998, he jogged, skied and played the piano and led an active life with his loved ones. He brought energy and discipline to everything he did. H
 SCHNEIDER-Irving Steven. Devoted son of Max and Pearl Schneider. Died July 25, 1998. He was a uniquely charitable individual, proprietor of Far Rockaway Liquor Corp., Executive Director of the Chamber of Commerce of the Rockaways, accountant, business consultant and real estate investor. Ha
 SMITH-Vince. His associates at U.S. Trust express their sorrow on the passing of Vince Smith. For over 50 years, from 1937 to 1991, Vince made many friends among both clients and colleagues. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.       
 SMITH-William, of Peekskill, NY and Aventura, FL, July 27, at the age of 87. A prominent force in Fulton Fish Market for more than 60 years as President and CEO of Caleb Haley & Co. A self-made man, he was respected and admired by all who knew him. Beloved husband of the late Bess; loving f
 SPEAR-Rev. Arthur J., C.S.P. on July 26, 1998 at age 93 was a native of St. Paul, MN. Father Spear was ordained a Paulist priest February 24, 1938. He served as a missionary, beginning with trailer work in Tenn. then through UT., MN., Canada (Toronto), and IL. He also served in parish work 
 STEEL-Thomas. The Board and the staff of the American Civil Liberties Union mourn the loss of Thomas Steel, a powerful advocate for individual liberty and the rights of the disadvantaged. We send our deepest sympathy to his life partner Milton Estes and his family.       
 TILLINGHAST-Charles Carpenter, Jr. The Directors of the Henry Luce Foundation mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague and friend who served with great loyalty on the Foundation's Board from 1974-1996. He will be remembered for his wise counsel, unerring common sense and often unc
 WINOGRAD-Sam. Beloved husband of Teddi. Loving father of Barry (Deborah) Winograd and Marcy Winograd (Ira Gottlieb). Proud and adoring grandfather of Ben Winograd, Gina Gardner and Rachel Winograd. Also survived by brother Alfred Winograd (Betty), sister Mae Bassin, sister-in-law Rhoda Semo
 ZELNIKER-Arthur, 78. On July 26, 1998. Loving and beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Mark and Ilene Zelniker and Jan and Jeffrey Scherr. Cherished grandfather of Lindsay, Jordan, Brian, Jeremy & Robert. Caring brother of Sheila and Sidney Hammer and Rhoda and Irving Spielvogel. Fo
 ZUCKER-Nathan. Beloved husband of Betty. Devoted father of Elyse and Brian. Cherished grandfather of Jesse. Loving brother of Lou and Murray. Services Wednesday 1:30PM, at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, L.I. ZUCKER-Nathan. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with prof
 GABRIELE-Tony, Ph.D. The wisdom, wit and vitality of Tony are profoundly remembered and commemorated this week by his family and friends. With deepest love, Barbara       
 William McChesney Martin Jr., the chairman of the Federal Reserve for 19 years, spanning five Administrations, from that of Harry S. Truman to Richard M. Nixon, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 91. Mr. Martin, a plain-spoken Democrat from Missouri, detested inflation
 Zbigniew Herbert, the Polish poet and essayist who insisted that civilization depended on artists' staking out clear moral positions resistant to the winds of history and ideology, died yesterday in Warsaw. He was 73. The cause of death was not disclosed, but a longtime friend and f
 Bill Tuttle, a former American League outfielder who waged a campaign against the use of chewing tobacco after developing oral cancer that left him disfigured, died Monday at a hospice in Brooklyn Center, Minn. Mr. Tuttle, who lived in Anoka, Minn., and who had been battling cancer since 19
 Jerome Robbins, who simultaneously became one of 20th-century ballet's greatest choreographers and a towering innovator in Broadway musicals, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. Mr. Robbins suffered a stroke at home on Saturday and lapsed into a coma at New York Hosp
 BEHN-Noel. Novelist, screenwriter and theatrical producer, died on July 27 at Beth Israel Hospital in New York City. He was 70 years old & lived in Manhattan. Mr. Behn succumbed to a heart attack after a battle with cancer. A member of New York's theater community for more than fifty years,
 DENNISON-Peter Drew and Morgan George, 11. In loving memory of my husband and son. Funeral St Francis Xavier, Saturday, 10 AM. Jeannette Kossuth DENNISON-Peter. The Park Avenue Christian Church Day School Community mourns the death of Peter Dennison and his son Morgan. Peter was a g
 FITZGIBBON-Daniel Francis, on July 26, 1998. Beloved father of Kathleen Fitzgibbon, Pamela Rickman and Gavin Fitzgibbon. Grandfather of Romagna Margaret, Vance Francis, Christina, Zachary, Isabel and Nicholas. Brother of Kathleen. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Str
 KLAYMAN--Bernard. Of Naples, Florida, July 27 at the age of 75. Beloved husband of Lottie Fogel, father of Anne and Laurence May & Deborah and Michael Callahan, grandfather of Rebecca, Elizabeth, Nicholas and Jessica and companion of Karen Hoffmann. Mr. Klayman, known as Bernie Klay, was a 
 LATSEY-Van Peter. A prominent gynecologist/obstetrician passed away on July 28, 1998. He is remembered as a loving husband, a kind gentleman and a mentor and generous friend to many. His wife, Angelika, and nephews and nieces, in Athens, Washington, Boston and New York survive him. Reposing
 LAUFER-Simon. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Simon Laufer. His cheerful dispositon and extraordinary benevolence will be missed by all. Beloved and devoted husband to Fran, our dynamic founding President. Together they helped establish and nurture our organization as they did with
 LEWIS-Nathan. The Brotherhood Synagogue extends condolences to our Trustee, Robert Lewis, and his family, on the passing of his beloved father.       
 McCHESNEY-MARTIN, JR.William. The Board of Directors and staff of the International Tennis Hall of Fame Mourn the loss of our friend & Honorary Chairman who was Chairman of the Federal Reserve and the youngest president ever elected to the New York Stock Exchange. A warm, generous & committ
 OLSON-Miriam. We extend heartfelt condolences to Sidney Olson on the loss of his beloved wife, Miriam. To anyone who had the good fortune of knowing her, she was a source of happiness and joy. Miriam was a righteous woman who exemplified the qualities of elegance, grace and extraordinary di
 ROBBINS-Jerome. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board, Robert I. Lipp, President of the Board of Directors, and the entire New York City Ballet family profoundly mourn the passing of CoFounding Choreographer Jerome Robbins, our teacher, mentor, colleag
 ROFF-Barry, Ph.D. At age 51. Loving father of Matthew and Jessica & loving husband of Xenia, died suddenly on July 29, 1998. Dr. Roff was a graduate of Brooklyn College and received his Ph.D. in psychology from The New School of Social Research. For more than a decade Dr. Roff served as Dep
 TILLINGHAST-Charles Carpenter, Jr. The Horace Mann School Community notes with profound sorrow the passing of their dear friend and esteemed alumnus, Charles Carpenter Tillinghast, Jr., HM '28. His distinguished family has been a prominent part of Horace Mann's tradition, history and growth
 WEISS-Stephan. On July 29, 1998. Beloved husband of Blanche. Adoring father of Lawrence and Erica (and of son-in-law Harry), and devoted grandfather of Adam and Peter. Also survived by sisters Erika and Trudl in Israel. Preceded in death by brother Zeev. Memorial at 2 P.M. at Riverside-Nass
 ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the passing of our long time President, Arthur Zelniker, on July 26, 1998. For over 50 years, his unquestionable dedication and undying loyalty to the company has provided an inspiration to all those who have worked with him. We admire his entrepreneurial spirit, c
 Vladimir D. Dudintsev, a reporter and novelist whose dissection of mid-1950's Soviet life drew the wrath of Nikita S. Khrushchev and the muffled praise of dissidents, died last Thursday at his dacha near here. He was 79 and had been ill since suffering a stroke several years ago. As
 Buffalo Bob Smith, a singing piano player and chatty radio disk jockey who created Howdy Doody and then teamed up with the puppet on one of early television's most enduring children's shows, died of cancer yesterday at a hospital near his home in Flat Rock, N.C. Mr. Smith was 80. ''
 Noel Behn, a novelist, screenwriter, theatrical producer and celebrated raconteur who held court nightly at Elaine's, the Upper East Side watering hole, died on Monday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Behn died in his sleep from a heart att
 BERGER-Wayne Robert. Of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on Wednesday, July 29, 1998. Beloved son of Florence and the late Irving Berger. Devoted brother of Barry and brother-in-law to Joan. He was uncle to Debra and Jason Berger. He will be greatly missed and remembered by all the family       
 CLARK-Samuel Adams, on June 26th, 1998. Survived by his wife, Meredith D. Clark of Merced, CA, and a brother, Francis Adams Clark of Cooperstown, NY.       
 DONAHUE-Robert F. The officers, directors, and employees of Hoenig & Co., Inc., mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague. Bob played an important role at Hoenig during his twentyfour years and served as a director from 1987 until 1997. We appreciate his many contributions during h
 MAHMUD-Dr. Faiq, 34, of New York City, was struck by an auto and killed in Beaumont, Texas on July 23rd. Services were held July 27th at the Islamic Center of New York in Manhattan. Interment was at Washington Memorial Park in Coram, NY. Dr. Mahmud was a graduate of Columbia University Medi
 MARTIN-William McChesney, Jr. The Board of Directors of The New York Stock Exchange mourns the death of our former President, esteemed colleague and friend, William McChesney Martin, Jr. He served as the first full-time paid President of the Exchange from June 30, 1938 until April 16, 1941.
 MELICAN-Rev. Msgr. Francis J. Pastor of Saint Pius X Church, Scarsdale, N.Y. Son of the late Francis & Anne Melican. Brother of C. Theresa Melican, Ann Lynch, John Melican & Sr. Regina Anne, O.P. Also survived by several nieces and nephews and grand nieces and grand nephews. Friends may cal
 RALSTON-Bruce L., MD, 73. Of Tuxedo Park, New York, died on Wednesday July 29, 1998 at Valley Hospital, Ridgewood, New Jersey. Dr. Ralston was a Neurosurgeon in Middletown, NY who retired in 1985. He was born in Brooklyn, NY to Miriam Levey Hoffer & the late Harry Ralston. He was married to
 REBELL-Harry. CPA. Surrounded by his nine grandchildren, three children and their spouses, Harry Rebell of Manhattan & Mahopac, New York, died peacefully on July 30th, 1998, at the age of 85. A true patriarch, he was devoted to his family. Known for his optimism, integrity, cheerfulness, wi
 REICHMAN - Marcus. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Lawrence (Michelle) Richman and Robert (Denise). Adoring grandfather of Molly and Alanna. He was much loved and will be greatly missed.       
 ROBBINS-Jerome. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board, Robert I. Lipp, President of the Board of Directors, and the entire New York City Ballet family profoundly mourn the passing of CoFounding Choreographer Jerome Robbins, our teacher, mentor, colleag
 ROFF-Barry, Ph.D. At Age 51. Loving father of Matthew and Jessica & loving husband of Xenia, died suddenly on July 29, 1998. Dr. Roff was a graduate of Brooklyn College and received his Ph.D. in psychology from The New School of Social Research. For more than a decade Dr. Roff served as Dep
 SERENKIN-Abraham. Flushing Jewish Center mourns with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member of the presidium, trustee and former president whose lifelong devotion to the synagogue and its members will never be forgotten. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Leah, their childre
 SERIFF-Nathan S., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff & employees of Lenox Hill Hospital express their profound sorrow at the loss of Nathan S. Seriff, M.D., the hospital's highly exteemed Chief of Pulmonary Medicine since 1991 and an outstanding member of our medical staff for the pa
 SPOONER-Richard C. Passed away peacefully July 28. Beloved husband to Elizabeth. Proud and loving father to Akil and Nia. Loving son of William and the late Madelyn. Devoted brother to Cheryl, Craig and Bill. He will be greatly missed and remembered always. Memorial service Riverside Church
 STRAUS-William. Age 96, of Lauderhill, Florida, passed away July 30, 1998. Mr. Strauss is survived by his loving wife, Celia Topf Straus; devoted son, Robert H. Straus acting Justice New York State Supreme Court, adored daughter-in-law Bobbi Straus and cherished grandson Matthew Robert Stra
 WHITEHEAD-O.Z. (Zebby), age 87. Died on July 29, 1998, Dublin, Ireland. After a short illness. Attended St. Marks School '30 and Harvard. Actor in Hollywood, in ''Grapes of Wrath, ''The Lion in Winter'', ''Ulysses'' & many other films and television productions. He worked with Henry Fonda, 
 WOODLIFFE-Stanley George. On July 29, 1998. Survived by his sister, Iris W. Kramer; cousin, Margaret Davey; nephew, Richard B. Kramer; grand nephew, Michael W. Kramer; and grand niece, Laurie J. Kramer. Employee of Trinity Church, 74 Trinity Place, NYC for forty years until retirement. Fune
 KONIGSBERG-Stanley ''Ace''. Its been ten years since you left us. An unforgettable man whose kindness, thoughtfulness, optimism and great sense of humor will be remembered forever by all who knew and loved him. Love, your family       
