 Jed Mattes, a literary agent and gay-rights advocate, died on July 24 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Fred Morris, his executor and business associate. Mr. Mattes started his career with International Creative
 Luther Henderson, a prolific arranger and conductor on Broadway whose deft touch in orchestrating jazz was prized by Duke Ellington, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his wife, the theater director and actor Billi
 BALASNY--Raymond L. Of Boca Raton, Florida, New York City and Wildwood, New Jersey. Died July 31, 2003. Well known collector of 20th Century American Art and President of Polychrome Lithography Co., Inc. of New York City. Graduate Phi Beta Kappa Rutgers University, 1942. Husband of Barbara.
 BURDMAN--Dr. Mortimer. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member Dr. Mortimer Burdman. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, President >>AD#       
 GREEN--Bernard R. July 30, 2003. Devoted husband of Barbara Green and the late Sylvia Green. Loving father of Shirley and Andrea, and father-in-law of Bob and Andrew, beloved step-father of Susan, Marc, Nina, Joshua, David and Jill, adored grandfather of Lindsay, Adam and Justin, and step g
 McCRARY--Tex. We mourn the loss of the one and only Tex McCrary. He was there at our beginning and we are forever grateful. The Founders of the NY Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International >>AD#       
 PAPP--Steven. The faculty, staff and students at Columbia University Health Sciences mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Steven Papp. For the past 25 years, Steven was Deputy Director for Administration at NY State Psychiatric Institute and Associate Vice President in the Faculty of
 RAPHAEL--Jacob H. Husband of the late Lillian. Loving and Devoted father of Deborah and Myron Mallen, Alan and Susan Raphael, Dr. Irving and Ava Raphael and Judith and Henry Shrager. Adoring grandfather of twelve, great-grandfather of three. Jacob Raphael was the Founder and first Principal
 TAUSSIG--Walter. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our beloved associate conductor, Walter Taussig. A member of the Met's music staff since 1949, Walter meticulously coached several generations of singers in their roles, including many of the most famous artists of the last half of
 WHITE--Fred B., 80, of New York, New York died July 29. Beloved uncle of Doris J. Grippe, Point Pleasant and great uncle of Joseph J. Grippe and Christopher M. Grippe and grand uncle of nine. Funeral service will be held on Saturday, August 2 10:00 AM at Pable-Evertz Funeral Home, 901 Beave
 Sam Phillips, who founded a small Memphis record label that made Elvis Presley a star and turned black blues and country music into what the world came to know as rock 'n' roll, died on Wednesday in Memphis, where he lived. He was 80. The cause was respiratory failure, said Jenny Ro
 Howard Armstrong, the last guardian of a vanishing African-American tradition of string-band music, died on Wednesday in Boston, where he lived. He was 94. Mr. Armstrong played 22 instruments although he was best known as a fiddle and mandolin player. He performed with a virtuoso's 
 Dr. Lazarus Astrachan, a geneticist who conducted a famous experiment in the field of molecular biology, died on Sunday while visiting Israel. He was 78. The cause was cancer, family members said. Dr. Astrachan's experiment, performed with Dr. Elliot Volkin at the Oak Ridge 
 DWYER--James J. (Jerry). On July 31, 2003 after a courageous battle against cancer. Chief of Pensions NYC Law Department. Loving husband to Christine. Devoted father to Kevin and Kristin. Beloved son of Mary and Jimmie. Adored son-inlaw of Stephanie Ball. Dear brother of Mary Agnes Del Tufo
 GREEN--Bernard. In loving memory of a dear and valued friend of many years. He will be sadly missed. Bennett and Marilyn Berman GREEN--Bernard. Our dear friend of many years with whom we shared so much fun. We will always miss you. Sydelle and Arthur >>AD#       
 LAWSON--Bartholomew J. The Board of Trustees, Administration and staff of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Bartholomew J. Lawson. As Executive Director of the Greater NY Healthcare Facilities Association, Bartholomew w
 SPERBER--Bernard, 92, 1933 graduate of NYU Law School, passed away July 31, 2003 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved husband of the late Helen Tobias Sperber. He is survived by daughter, Peggy Flanders of Syracuse, New York; sister Lillian Wechsler of Boynton Beach, Florida; grandsons David and
 Walter Taussig, a vocal coach and conductor who prepared generations of singers for their roles at the Metropolitan Opera, the Salzburg Festival and elsewhere, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 95. Coaches are the unseen motors of the opera house, conduits of invaluable musical 
 Charles S. Rhyne, a Washington lawyer whose arguments before the Supreme Court led to a 1962 decision that gave federal courts the right to redraw state electoral districts to reflect population shifts, was found dead in the pool at his home in McLean, Va., on July 27. He was 91. Th
 ABEL--David W. On July 30, at age 89. Devoted husband of Edith, cherished father of Andrew, fond brother of Sidney. Music educator, violinist, composer, author. His ''Three Hebraic Moods,'' was performed at Carnegie Hall in 1997. He compiled a book of contrasting quotations, ''What's That Y
 BRUSH--Roderick McLeod, of Darien, CT, died peacefully at home on July 26, 2003. Mr. Brush, born in Greenwich, CT in February 1920, was a U.S. Navy officer and pilot and received the Air Medal for Combat Service in WW II, began his career in textile sales management in 1947, became Vice Pre
 COHEN--Sidney. On August 1, 2003. Beloved husband of Bernice and devoted father of Diane and Edward Koones. Adoring grandfather of Gabrielle Koones and loyal brother to Bert Sossin and Jean Wolin, and the late Mary Goldberg and Frances Keenberg. He served his country as a captain in WWII an
 CURLEY--John Walton. 50, died at home in St. Louis on July 28, 2003 of lung cancer. He is survived by his children, Nina Galbraith Curley and James Ross Curley, his parents Ambassador Walter J.P. Curley and Mary Walton Curley, his brother Patrick of New York, his sister Margaret C. Wiles of
 DWYER--James J. (Jerry). On July 31, 2003 after a courageous battle against cancer. Chief of Pensions NYC Law Department. Loving husband to Christine. Devoted father to Kevin and Kristin. Beloved son of Mary and Jimmie. Adored son-inlaw of Stephanie Ball. Dear brother of Mary Agnes Del Tufo
 ETKIN--Jacob L. Of Westwood, MA. Born June 10, 1914, Russia. Died July 31, 2003, in Boston at Mass General Hospital. Survived by his wife Natasha Etkin; daughters Masha Etkin, M.D., Irene Goldman, Nora Etkin, Nina Etkin; his grandchildren Daniel Goldman, Ilana Greenstein, Paul Goldman; and 
 FLEISCHHACKER -- Judge Ray, 55. The family of Ray Fleischhacker announce with sorrow his passing on July 27, 2003. Son of the late Kurt & Milka, brother of Steven, father of Adam & grandfather of Aidan. A private memorial service will be held. Kindly direct any donations to the American Hea
 GLASSMAN -- Wallace. On August 2, 2003, at age 78. Beloved husband of Esther. Loving and devoted father of Jonathan and father-in-law of Randi. Ecstatic and proud grandfather of Joshua. Wally was a wise, warm hearted, good humored, generous, kind and caring soul. He was greatly loved by all
 GREEN--Martin, age 89, native New Yorker, died late last week at home surrounded by loving friends and family. A lifetime of passionate devotion to the arts--dance, theatre, film; a few turns in vaudeville and theatre; edited a magazine of theatre and dance, Interlude; manager of Dance Coop
 HENDERSON--Luther. The Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization mourns the passing of our good friend and collaborator, Luther Henderson. His first Broadway credit was dance arranger of the original ''Flower Drum Song'', something of which he was very proud. We will miss his wit, his brilliance
 KAYNE--Dr. Edward B. 80, retired Associate Professor of Operative Dentistry at NYU, died at home in Verona, NJ, on Saturday, August 2, 2003. He is survived by his wife Shirley and sons Dr. Richard D. Kayne and Dr. Matthew S. Kayne, a sister, Mrs. Anthony F. D'Amico, two daughtersin-law, Mrs
 LAWSON--H.E. Bartholomew J. Age 54, on July 31, 2003. Family, friends and colleagues mourn the loss of a public servant, executive and healthcare advocate who died in Grenada while serving as Ambassador at Large to the United States Grenadian Mission to the United Nations. Mr. Lawson was Pr
 McDERMOTT -- Keith Pa trick, devoted father of Fiona and Vanessa and widower of his beloved Sylvia, passed away on July 23rd at his home in Greenwich, CT. The only son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Edward McDermott of Johannesburg, South Africa, Keith McDermott was born in England on July 23, 19
 MITCHELL -- Nathan, M.D. Died peacefully on July 29. Beloved husband of Irma, devoted father of Stephen and Bob, and passionate practitioner of pathology and golf, he will be sorely missed by his family and his many friends. >>AD#       
 RAISBECK--Edward A., Jr., age 98, on July 28, 2003 at Stamford, CT, after a short illness. He was a 1926 graduate of Dartmouth College, World War II veteran (Col., U.S. Army and recipient of Legion of Merit), and retired Senior Partner of Thorndike Deland & Associates, with over 60 years se
 RESCHKE--Dr. Stephen E. Of Rego Park, NY. Died on July 30th at age 62 after a battle with brain cancer. An industrial organizational psychologist, he was a graduate of the Ramaz School, the City College of New York, and Case Western Reserve University. A native New Yorker, he was the son of
 ROSENBLAUM--Alan H. Family and friends of Alan Rosenbaum mourn his passing on July 27 at his home in Charlottesville, VA. He was 70 years old. The son of Murray and Rose Rosenbaum. Alan was born in Brooklyn and attended Far Rockaway High School and later graduated from Carnegie Mellon Unive
 SELOVER--John Lewis of Boston on August 1, 2003; husband of Elizabeth Bliss Selover. Mr. Selover was a member of the Christian Science Board of Directors and Manager of the Christian Science Publishing Society. He is lovingly remembered by his wife Elizabeth; his children Alison and Alexand
 SIMONS--Nick, suddenly on July 30, 2003. Beloved son of Marilyn and James. Dear brother of Elizabeth, Nathaniel and Audrey. Services Monday, August 4, 11 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. SIMONS--Nicholas. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue 
 SMITH--William G. of Manhattan, died on July 30, 2003. He was born on September 19, 1922 in Chicago. He was a graduate of the class of 1941 from Shady Side Academy. Mr. Smith joined Cartier, Inc., in 1947 and retired in 1985 as Director of Project Development for Cartier International. Priv
 THOMAS--John, at age 59. John served in Army Intelligence in Vietnam. In the early 70's, he began his Wall Street career working as a bond salesman at Salomon Brothers and First Boston before moving to Seattle in 1990 with his family. He is survived by his loving wife Sandee Thomas, their d
 Hamer Harold Budge, a conservative Republican who was chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1969 to 1971 and represented Idaho's Second Congressional District from 1951 to 1961, died on July 22 at his retirement home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92. Mr. Budge was no
 GUARDARO -- Edward J., Esq. Deputy Clerk to 2d Circuit Court of Appeals for 31 years, co-founder Fordham Law School Alumni Assoc., died August 2, 2003. A kind, generous, intelligent, dedicated family man. Husband of the late Mildred. Survived by his sister Evelyn Fantaci, two children, Edwa
 HIRSCHBERG -- Henry. Be loved husband, father, brother, grandfather and greatgrandfather. A lifelong resident of New York, graduate of the City College and devoted member of Three Arrows Cooperative in Putnam Valley. He passed away peacefully in his sleep on Saturday, and will be deeply mis
 HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. Beloved husband of Carole Slater Hirschen. Loving father of Jill Hirschen. Adored son of Miriam Hirschen. Service will take place Tuesday, August 5, 2003, 10 AM, at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83rd St, NY, NY. For information, ''The Riverside,'' 212-362-6600. In 
 LAWSON--H.E. Bartholomew J. Age 54, on July 31, 2003. Family, friends and colleagues mourn the loss of a public servant, executive and healthcare advocate who died in Grenada while serving as Ambassador at Large to the United States Grenadian Mission to the United Nations. Mr. Lawson was Pr
 MUNDEL -- August B. Of White Plains, NY, on August 1, 2003. Beloved husband of Joan Webb and the late Helen Ginsburg Mundel. Devoted father of David Mundel of Boston and the late Rhoda Adele Libowitz, and stepfather of Laurence, Timothy, and Geoffrey Harris. Dearest grandfather of Wendy Wax
 ROSENBAUM--Alan H. Family and friends of Alan Rosenbaum mourn his passing on July 27 at his home in Charlottesville, VA. He was 70 years old. The son of Murray and Rose Rosenbaum. Alan was born in Brooklyn and attended Far Rockaway High School and later graduated from Carnegie Mellon Univer
 MECHANIC--Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''And until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand.'' >>AD#       
 Dr. Frederick C. Robbins, a pediatrician who shared a Nobel Prize in 1954 for discovering a way to grow the polio virus in a test tube and paving the way for the vaccines that have eliminated the crippling disease from much of the world, died yesterday in Cleveland. He was 86 and until earl
 DEL GIUDICE--Vincent J. M.D.-81, of Franklin Lakes formerly of Haledon on August 3, 2003. Beloved husband of Helen Del Giudice (nee Masterson). Devoted father of Dr. Gina Del Giudice of Princeton and Vincent Del Giudice of Arlington, VA. Loving grandfather of four grandchildren and nine ste
 GAMPEL--Harry A. The Yeshiva University family expresses profound sorrow upon the passing of an outstanding humanitarian, Jewish communal leader, and philanthropist. Mr. Gampel served as a member of the Board of Directors and, more recently, honorary director of our Sy Syms School of Busine
 GUARDARO -- Edward J., Esq. Deputy Clerk to 2d Circuit Court of Appeals for 31 years, co-founder Fordham Law School Alumni Assoc., died August 2, 2003. A kind, generous, intelligent, dedicated family man. Husband of the late Mildred. Survived by his sister Evelyn Fantaci, two children, Edwa
 HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. The Board, Staff and Clients of the Women's Prison Association and Home (WPA) are deeply saddened by the death of Jerry Hirschen. Jerry was pivotal in the development of the Sarah Powell Huntington House, WPA's residential facility for women reuniting with their childre
 LAWSON--Bartholomew J. The partners and staff extend our deepest condolences to Karen, his three children, family, and countless friends. His wisdom, sage advise, loyalty to his membership, and above all, his unfailing wit are irreplaceable. We deeply mourn his sudden, tragic loss. Tenzer a
 MINOWITZ--Bill. August 14, 1926-August 3, 2003. Cherished husband of Judith, loving father of Peter, Deborah Libes, Emily; father-in-law of Richard Libes and dearest grandfather of Max and Zachary. Bill will be sorely missed by his family and his many, many friends. Memorial service to be a
 MURRAY--John. The Officers and employees of Crosstown Interior Contracting express our sorrow at the sudden passing of our associate, John ''Sean'' Murray, a much liked and respected field leader. We acknowledge the loss to us and our customers. We will miss him greatly and convey to his fa
 PAPP--Steven M. The Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene mourns the loss of our friend and colleague Steven M. Papp. Steven was Deputy Director for Administration at the New York Psychiatric Institute, a member of the Board of Directors of the Research Foundation and Chairman of the Fisca
 PITTS--Jesse Richard, Charlottesville, VA on August 2, 2003. Harvard '41, Harvard Ph.D '58. WW II B-17 bomber pilot. Professor Emeritus Sociology Oakland University, MI. Tocqueville Review founder and editor. Survived by his wife Monique Bonnier Pitts, daughter Florence, sons Oliver, Alan, 
 QUEALLY--Francis X. of Tequesta, Florida, formerly of Scarsdale, New York and Greenwich, Connecticut, died on August 4th, 2003. Born on July 10, 1927 in Woodside, NY, he was the son of Michael J. and Kathleen Ronalyne Queally. He is survived by his wife, Marietta Egan Queally, his children 
 RAYMOND--Dana Merriam. August 3, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Josephine. Devoted father of Catherine, Peter and John. Cherished grandfather of David, Nicholas, Anne, Jane, John, Kaila and Briana. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. A memorial service will be announc
 TONER -- Rev. Monsignor Francis X. On August 4, 2003. Pastor of St. Barnabas Church Bronx, NY, and former Pastor of Holy Rosary Church, Bronx, NY. He was Regional Vicar, Northeast Bronx Vicariate, Archdiocese of New York. Beloved brother of Joan Toner, of Williamsburg, VA; Kathleen Scully o
 VENTRESCA--Louis N. The Officers, Board of Directors, staff and members of the Hotel Association of New York City deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Louis N. Ventresca, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Sherry Netherland Hotel and past Chairman of 
 YERKES -- John Nicholas. Age 33, died on Fishers Island, July 31 after a lengthy battle with cancer. He is survived by his loving wife Darcy, daughter Mackenzie, son Peyton, mother and father Harry E. Yerkes and Nancy Spofford Yerkes, sisters Elizabeth and Nathalie and brother Harry. His gr
 Peter Schwed, a former editorial chairman and trade books publisher at Simon & Schuster and an author in his own right, died last Thursday at Beth Israel North Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Schwed began his career at Simon & Schuster in 1945 as an edit
 Herman Schneider, the author of more than 80 books, mostly science books for children, died in Boston on Thursday. He was 98 and lived on Martha's Vineyard. Many of Mr. Schneider's books were written with his wife, Nina, including ''How Big is Big? From Stars to Atoms, a Yardstick f
 James Jerome Dwyer, legal guardian for the pension funds of an army of past and present New York City employees, died last Thursday at his home in Stuyvesant Town. He was 54. The cause was esophageal cancer, his family said. Mr. Dwyer, a career civil servant, was the chief o
 John Lewis Selover, vice chairman of the Christian Science board of directors and publisher of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Friday at his home in Boston. He was 72. A church spokesman, Peter Osterlund, said Mr. Selover had suffered a brief illness. Mr. Selover had 
 GUARDARO -- Edward J., Esq. Deputy Clerk to 2d Circuit Court of Appeals for 31 years, co-founder Fordham Law School Alumni Assoc., died August 2, 2003. A kind, generous, intelligent, dedicated family man. Husband of the late Mildred. Survived by his sister Evelyn Fantaci, two children, Edwa
 LANDYNSKI--Jacob. On July 29, 2003. The Trustees, faculty, and staff of New School University mourn the loss of Jacob Landynski, Professor and former Chair of Political Science at the Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science for over 40 years. His scholarly work, cited in over a doz
 LAWSON--Bartholomew J. The trustees, directors, staff, participants and beneficiaries of the 1199 SEIU Greater New York Benefit, Pension, Education, Job Security, Worker Participation and Child Care Funds mourn the loss of our valued Trustee, Bartholomew J. Lawson. Bart served as co-chair o
 MINOWITZ--Bill. August 14, 1926-August 3, 2003. Cherished husband of Judith, loving father of Peter, Deborah Libes, Emily; father-in-law of Richard Libes and dearest grandfather of Max and Zachary. Bill will be sorely missed by his family and his many, many friends. Memorial service to be a
 PAYSON--Samuel V. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Samuel V. Payson, beloved brother of our past Board colleague, Martin D. Payson, a cherished friend and dedicated supporter. We extend our deepest sympathies to Martin and to the
 SCHILLINGER -- Morton, Ph.D., ABPP. Section V, Psychologist Psychoanalyst Clinicians, of the Division of Psychoanalysis of the American Psychological Association mourns the loss of its president, colleague, leader and friend. Dr. Schillinger gave much to American psychoanalytic psychology; 
 SOKOL--Philip. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its member, beloved husband and father of Rose and Sam Sokol. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 SONTAG--Rollin H. On August 4, 2003 at age 76. Former president of The American Silk Label Company, and Past Chairman of North Shore University Hospital. Beloved husband of Joan. Loving father of Ellen and Michael Kuba, Ann and Roy Shapiro, Deborah Sontag and William Orme, Cathy and Jaime N
 VAN RAALTE--Byron (Buddy) of Lawrence, NY on August 4. Beloved husband and best friend of his darling Enid (nee Godnick). Most loving and adored father of Dr. Polly Van Raalte and Susan Van Raalte Hershman. Cherished father-in-law of Dr. Elliott Hershman. A very special Grandpa to Todd and 
 VENTRESCA--Louis N. I mourn the untimely passing of a dedicated, kind and compassionate man. His dedication to the Sherry Netherland and its employees was unprecedented. He will be sorely missed. Marilyn Q. Lipman VENTRESCA--Louis N. We are deeply saddened by the death of Lou Ventre
 Dr. Peter Safar, an anesthesiologist who developed lifesaving cardiopulmonary resuscitation techniques that are widely used today, died on Sunday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 79. The cause was cancer. Dr. Safar founded and led several institutions responsible for develo
 Robert J. Ward, a senior federal judge in New York, who presided over nationally prominent lawsuits that included charges of illegal interference with abortion rights and accusations of plagiarism by a best-selling author, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 77 and live
 FARBER--Gene. Of Westport, CT, NYC and Roussillon, France. On August 1st, 2003, age 65, after a courageous 17 year battle with prostate cancer. Gene was the owner, along with his wife Joanna of Parc Monceau Country French Antiques in Westport. His family, Joanna, Jonathan, Samantha, Anna an
 FINARDI--Enzo V., age 94, on August 4. Survived by his wife Eloise (Degenring) and his son Eugenio, daughter Marilu and five grandchildren. Memorial gathering 2PM, Saturday, September 13 at 303 West 66 St, New York, NY.       
 GOLDSTEIN--Benjamin J. On August 5, 2003. Peacefully, surrounded by his family at the age of 88. Beloved husband of Gertrude, cherished father of Walter and Joel, loved father-in-law of Debra and Toni, adored grandfather of Marc, Rebecca and her husband Michael. Dear brother of Sylvia and D
 LUPU--Jack, 96, on August 5, 2003. Co-proprietor of Lupu's Dress Shop in Brooklyn before retiring to Florida. Beloved husband of the late Hattie Lupu, loving brother of Laura Stern and Rusty Remin, and uncle of Diane and Robert Remin, Chip and Jerry Lupu, and the late Sandy Stern. We will a
 SCHILLINGER -- Morton, Ph.D., ABPP. On July 31, 2003. Clinical psychologist; founder and Executive Director of Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy; former Executive Director of the New York State Psychological Association; President, Section V of the Division of Psychoanalysis of the Americ
 SONTAG--Rollin. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of Rollin Sontag, a former long time member of our Club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Joan, and to the entire family. Robert F
 WARD--Judge Robert J., August 5, 2003. Beloved husband of Renee J. Loving father of Judge Laura A. and Carolyn Ward; devoted brother of Joan W. Hill; cherished stepfather of Lawrence D. and Jonathan E. and Lauren Roberts, Jeffrey and Leslie Sokolow, Judith Sokolow, and Jonathan Sokolow and 
 Robert J. Ward, a senior federal judge in New York, who presided over nationally prominent lawsuits that included charges of illegal interference with abortion rights and accusations of plagiarism by a best-selling author, died on Tuesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 77 and liv
 David Webster, a former high official of the British Broadcasting Corporation who helped many of the countries of Eastern Europe develop independent broadcasting services, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 72 and also lived and worked in Manhattan. The cause was he
 Grover Mitchell, the lead trombonist for the late-period Count Basie Orchestra and the third leader of the band since Basie's death, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Dee Askew, the band'
 Julius Baker, the principal flutist of the New York Philharmonic for 18 years and the most prominent American flutist of his generation, died on Wednesday in Danbury, Conn. He was 87 and lived in Brewster, N.Y. Mr. Baker was known for the bright tone and rhythmic precision he brough
 BAKER--Julius. The Juilliard community profoundly mourns the death of Julius Baker, a member of the Juilliard faculty from 1954 to 2003, and one of the most prominent flutists and distinguished teachers of the 20th Century. With impeccable technique, expressive sound, flawless phrasing, and
 COHEN--Murry, on August 6, 2003, of Hackensack, NJ. Former Financial VP for Joseph E. Seagram, New York, NY, Comptroller for Helena Rubenstein and General Manager for Bowater Limited. Beloved husband of Helen for 62 years. Devoted father of Robert and Lora Cohen, Cathy and Joel Bez, Kathy a
 GODDARD--Donald C. Beloved husband of the late Natalie Donay, died in Sussex, England on August 2, 2003. Survived by his wife, Carol Goddard and three sons, Adrian, Julian and Mark, as well as a godson, Donald Duvoll.       
 HAWKINS--Howard R. Global Satellite Communications Pioneer, Dies at 87. Howard R. Hawkins, a leader in the development of the international satellite communications industry, died yesterday of respiratory failure in Greenwich Hospital, Greenwich, CT. Mr. Hawkins was 87. Mr. Hawkins' six dec
 MARKS--William. We extend our condolences to Joanne, Jason, Ellisa and family. Billy will remain forever in the hearts of everyone he touched. We loved him. Karen and Buzz       
 MARZULLO--Frank N., M.D. Peacefully on August 5, 2003. A loving husband, father, step father and grandfather to us all; a physician and friend who touched many lives with his gentility and humanity. Jamie and Neil       
 WARD--Hon. Robert J. A wise and gentle man who was our dear friend. His sudden loss leaves a void in our lives that will be impossible to fill. Our hearts go out to Renee, Laura, Carolyn and family. They will be consoled in the years to come with so many wonderful memories. Diane and Arthur
 WICZYK--Yaakov J. August 3, 2003 at age 57. Mr. Wiczyk emigrated to the United States after serving as both a Tank Commander and an Intelligence Officer for the Israeli Defense Forces during the Six Day War and revolutionized the concept of the American gasoline service business. After atta
 Roberto Marinho, a journalist who built his father's newspaper, O Globo, into Brazil's most powerful media company that shaped culture and politics for much of its owner's career of seven decades, has died. He was 98. Mr. Marinho died late Wednesday at Samaritano hospital in Rio de 
 Rear Adm. Richard E. Bennis, the Coast Guard commander who marshaled the waterborne escape of half a million people from Lower Manhattan on Sept. 11, 2001, died last Sunday in Fredericksburg, Va. He was 52 and lived in Stafford, Va. The cause was melanoma, the Coast Guard said.     
 Charles P. Tolchin, who survived with cystic fibrosis decades longer than expected and who wrote and taught about the disease, died today at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 34. The cause was complications of the disease and a double lung transplant Mr. Tolchin received in 199
 James Welch, a Great Plains Indian writer whose poetry and spare, understated prose explored the complex relationship between his origins and the world outside, which welcomed his work with critical praise and a measure of fame, died on Monday at his home in Missoula, Mont. He was 62.      
 Mickey McDermott, who was known as much for his quick wit, blithe spirit and unfulfilled potential as for being the pitcher who led the Boston Red Sox in strikeouts from 1950 to 1952, died on Thursday. He was 74. McDermott died in a hospice in Phoenix. The cause of death was congest
 BAKER--Julius. The Juilliard community profoundly mourns the death of Julius Baker, a member of the Juilliard faculty from 1954 to 2003, and one of the most prominent flutists and distinguished teachers of the 20th Century. With impeccable technique, expressive sound, flawless phrasing, and
 CARMEL--Miriam. The Officers and Board of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with deep sorrow the passing of Miriam Carmel, the mother of our longtime friend and supporter Ken Carmel. We extend our sincere sympathy to Ken and his entire family. Leo Hausman, Chairman, UCP of NYC, In
 SEELER--Richard W. It is with great sadness that the Real Estate Board of New York mourns the loss of its beloved member and esteemed former chair Richard W. Seeler. His contribution to the real estate industry spans five decades, and he will be sorely missed by his many friends and colleag
 WICZYK--Yaakov. Yaak, our 30 years of relations and friendship have gone by in the blink of an eye. We grew up together and watched our families grow and prosper together. We will always remember you and carry you in our hearts for the rest of our days. Our love and prayers are with you and
 William Woolfolk, a novelist, television writer and comic book author who wrote stories for many popular wartime comic-book characters, including Captain Marvel and Blackhawk, died on July 20 in Syracuse, where he lived. He was 86. Mr. Woolfolk was chief scriptwriter for the televis
 Albert Field, the designated expert in divining when the surreal is real, at least in the work of Salvador Dalí, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens. He was 86. Dalí, whose precisely realistic renderings of fantastic images like melting watches are very popular with a
 Donald Goddard, a trans-Atlantic journalist and an author of books on organized crime, died on Sunday at his home in Burgess Hill, Sussex, England. He was 75. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, the former Carol Dudding. A native of London, Donald Charles Goddard
 F.T. Prince, a South African poet whose work included ''Soldiers Bathing,'' one of the best-known poems inspired by World War II, died on Thursday in Southampton, England, where he had taught for years. He was 90. The first book-length collection of his poetry, ''Poems,'' was publis
 Henry A. Boorse, a physicist who was one of the original scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project in the development of the atomic bomb, died on July 28 in Houston, where he lived. He was 98 and a former resident of Leonia, N.J. Dr. Boorse, who received his Ph.D. in physics fr
 Nizar Hamdoon, who had been Iraq's ambassador to the United States and the United Nations, a deputy foreign minister of his country and under secretary of its Foreign Ministry, died on July 4 in Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was pneumonia,
 ANDERSON--Edwin. Died on August 8, 2003, at age 87, in Boca Raton. Beloved husband of 44 years of the late Rosalyne (Kaminsky). He is survived by his wife Marilyn; his children Mindy, Dale and Doug Anderson; his grandchildren Michael and Ellen Feld, Barrie and Chuck Birge, Melissa and Stefa
 BARCHILON--Jose. August 6, 2003, age 90. Psychoanalyst and consummate teacher. Husband of Sally Barchilon, father of Josette & Andrew, father & father-in-law of John & Beverly Barchilon, Coco & Ben Van Meerendonk, Jackie Barchilon & Joseph Daley, grandfather of David Van Meerendonk, Nina & 
 ETHRIDGE--William T. On August 6, 2003, in Palm Beach, Florida. He died peacefully from complications resulting from a cerebral hemorrhage. Born August 7, 1924, in Greenwich, CT, to James and Gretchen Ethridge. Beloved husband of Damaris Deere Wiman; father of William Jr., Robert, David, an
 FELDMAN--Irving E. 93, died on August 9, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Judith. Devoted father of Donald and Jane Feldman and Ronald and Frayda Feldman. Cherished grandfather of Mark, Andy and Lisa and Julie and Mark. Dearest greatgrandfather of Ethan, Charlotte, Jonah, Sam and Nathan. L
 FINKELSTEIN--Martin. On August 3, 2003. Age 67, of Long Island and Boca Raton. Loving husband of Rosalind, father of Brett, Michael and Marc, grandfather of Blake and Taylor, Alexandra and Samantha, Lena and Gabriel, brother of Michael and great friend. His courage and determination touched
 FRAISER--Thomas R. Retired Professor of History and Chairperson of the History Department at Baruch College, author of ''The Underside of American History'', died at home on July 25, 2003. He was born on May 4, 1931 and received his PH.D from Columbia University. Dr. Fraiser was the beloved
 GOLD--William (Bill). On August 9. Survived by his beloved wife Cindy of 51 years; sister Muriel; daughter Laurie and partner Nancy; son Mark and wife Lisa; grandchildren Alex, Jessica, Sydney and Ross. Graduated Bronx High School of Science '46, Harvard '49. Since then he has been an activ
 HYMAN--Judge Harold. Age 93. Died on August 9, at peace and surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of Ruth (deceased). Father of Edward Hyman (deceased), Franklin Hyman and Myra Diamond, father-in-law of Sharyn, Marjory and Philip, 12 grandchildren, eight great-grandchildren. A resident 
 KALIN--Richard. The Officers, Directors, Employees and entire Micronetics, Inc., extended family mourn the sudden and tragic passing of its President and friend Richard Kalin. Our heartfelt conodolences go out to the Kalin family. He will always be remembered. Micronetics, Inc.       
 KELLY--Charles B. On August 8, 2003, at St. Vincent's Hospital. Son of the late Michael and Frances Schaid Kelly. Esteemed uncle of Maureen Adelman, Patricia Schmidt and John Kelly and their families. Decorated WWII veteran. Charles is survived by Larry Kiss, his life partner of almost 30 y
 MARGOLES--Solomon. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Solomon Margoles, father of Rickie Leiter, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. June Walker, Nat'l President       
 MARKS--William M. Beloved husband of Joanne. Devoted father of Jason (Wendy), Elissa (Seth). Cherished son of Claire and Howard Marks. Dear brother of Robert. Sonin-law of Helene and Larry Kurtis. Brother-in-law of Marilyn and Michael Kurtis. Loving uncle of Heather and Nicole. Services Sun
 PELL--William R., 55, July 26, 2003. A graduate of Manhattan School of Music and Indiana University, Bill enjoyed an illustrious opera career in Berlin, Bayreuth, Canada, around the world. An adoring and devoted father he is survived by son Christopher, exwife Andrea, mother Helen Pell, sis
 RAYMOND--Dana Merriam. August 3, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Josephine. Devoted father of Catherine, Peter and John. Cherished grandfather of David, Nicholas, Anne, Jane, John, Kaila and Briana. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. A memorial service will be announc
 SCHILLINGER -- Morton, Ph.D., ABPP. Section V, Psychologist Psychoanalyst Clinicians, of the Division of Psychoanalysis of the American Psychological Association mourns the loss of its president, colleague, leader and friend. Dr. Schillinger gave much to American psychoanalytic psychology; 
 SHEELINE--Paul Cushing. Of Lloyd Harbor, New York, died on August 6, 2003. Husband of Sandra Wahl and father of Christopher, William, Mary, Leonora and Abby, and grandfather of Mila, Sophie, William, Alec and Haya. Predeceased by his first wife, Harriet Moffat, B.S., Harvard College, Editor
 WICZYK--Yaakov. The true greatness of a man's achievement in life is measured by how many lives he touched. For us, your kindess, caring and concern was always there. Through the years you were the foundation of our family. You were our rock. You touched us by your gentle smile. You were ou
 SOMKIN--Lawrence B. We remember his kindness, thoughtfulness, ability and good judgment. He enriched our lives and we are grateful. His Family and Friends SOMKIN--Lawrence B. August 10, 2002. Forever missed. Love, Jane and Les       
 Richard H. Bauman, an actor and dancer who became a talent agent and a partner in a talent agency with clients including Robert De Niro, Bette Midler, James Earl Jones and Jean Stapleton, died on July 31 in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Studio City, Calif. He was brief
 Robert J. Donovan, a ''shoe leather'' newspaper reporter without a college education who became a Washington correspondent, best-selling author and presidential historian, died on Friday at Bayfront Medical Center in St. Petersburg, Fla. A longtime resident of Washington, he moved to Florid
 Gregory Hines, the genial, suave dancer, singer and actor who for many personified the art of classical tap in the 1980's and 90's, died late Saturday on his way to a hospital from his home in Los Angeles. He was 57. The cause was cancer, said Yvette Glover, a longtime friend and th
 Louis Lasagna, a clinical pharmacologist who pioneered the study of placebos and wrote an alternative Hippocratic oath, died last Thursday at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Newton. The cause was lymphoma, said a spokeswoman at Tufts University, whe
 ANDERSON--Edwin. Died on August 8, 2003, at age 87, in Boca Raton. Beloved husband of 44 years of the late Rosalyne (Kaminsky). He is survived by his wife Marilyn; his children Mindy, Dale and Doug Anderson; his grandchildren Michael and Ellen Feld, Barrie and Chuck Birge, Melissa and Stefa
 DENHOLTZ -- Dr. Myron (Mickey). On August 8, 2003. Age 77, of West Palm Beach, formerly of Maplewood, NJ. A psychiatrist, he was a pioneer in behavior modification. He graduated from NYU Medical School. He trained at Metropolitan Hospital. He was an Associate Professor of Psychiatry at NJ M
 FERENBACH -- Richard Schooley. 75, of Morristown, NJ, on August 8, 2003. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Heffernan). Adored father of Richard Jr., Gray, TN, Claire Whelan, Greenwich, CT, and the late Laura Ferenbach. Cherished grandfather of Thomas, Courtney, Evelyn, Edward and Amanda Whel
 HAUPTMAN--Julius L. August 2, 2003. Husband, father, grandfather, mentor and friend. Long standing and esteemed member of the Brookyn legal community. Father of the late Melvin Hauptman. Leaves surviving his beloved wife Goldie, daughter Evelyn, son-in-law George Constable, five grandchildr
 HOUSTON--Doug. A Boston advertising executive, died on July 29 at his home in Portland, OR. He is survived by his wife Victoria Hawkins Houston, his mother Elaine Cline, his two sons Spencer and D.W., his daughters Lindsay and Mallory and his brothers Stan and Paul. Mr. Houston owned three 
 LIDSKY--Stuart Louis. Died on August 10, 2003, at age 73. Born August 25, 1930. Mining engineer, adventurer and explorer. Loving husband to Ora, father of Doron and Sinai, grandfather to Dana, Leah and Anna, brother to Barbara. He will be missed. Memorial will be held in September.       
 RAINEY--John Crews. Architect, died August 10, in NYC, at age 69. He is survived by his wife Mary Jane Norcross, brother-in-law John Norcross of Chicago, and step-daughters Cynthia Penney and Virginia Tougas of NYC. There will be no memorial service. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent
 SEELER--Richard W. We mourn the loss of our esteemed mentor, colleague and friend. His accomplishments in life were many. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Grubb & Ellis Company SEELER--Richard. Farewell to my longtime, dear friend. My heartfelt sympathy to B
 SWANSTON -- Clarence ''Gene.'' Of Riverdale, NY, and Martha's Vineyard, on August 6, 2003, age 56. Loving brother of Carole, cherished uncle to Raquel and beloved cousin to Monique, along with a host of nieces, cousins, godchildren and friends deeply mourn his loss. Gene, you will forever b
 WINTERS--Henry Nicholas. Passed away suddenly on August 8, 2003, at age 49 in Franklin, MI. Beloved husband of Liz Foster. Devoted father of Katie and Daniel James. Loving brother to George and Charlotte and loving son to Robert. Mr. Winters attended St. Bernard's School and Phillips Exeter
 Saxon Riley, who led Lloyd's of London through a sweeping reorganization and helped it survive heavy losses in the World Trade Center attack in 2001, died on July 25. He was 64. Mr. Riley, who was known as Sax, collapsed on a golf course southwest of London where he was playing as a
 Alonzo Pettie, Colorado's oldest black cowboy, who after being barred from white rodeos helped start one for blacks, died on Aug. 2 in Denver. He was 93. Mr. Pettie lived in Denver, which was a relatively small town that still had some dirt roads when he went to Colorado as part of 
 Herb Brooks, who molded an unheralded collection of United States hockey players, most of them collegians, into the ''Miracle on Ice'' team that captured the gold medal at the 1980 Winter Olympics, died yesterday in an auto accident north of the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Brooks, who lived 
 BELLAMY--Roger. Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater mourns the loss of Roger Bellamy, a passionate performer who joined his brother, Don, as a member of the Company from 1992-1997. We will miss his elegance, exuberant spirit and joyous laughter. A memorial service is planned for August 13 at
 BLECH--Meyer, 77, served for 25 years as a Jewish chaplain at the Brooklyn and Manhattan Veteran's Hospital. During the Korean War, Rabbi Blech served as a chaplain to the troops. During the 1980s, he was a founder of several biotechnology companies working on products for cancer and AIDS. 
 FELDMAN--Kenneth. On August 10th. Photographer and book collector, longtime resident of Manhattan and Hampton Bays, graduate of Windsor Mountain. He will be deeply missed by his brother David and his sister Carole Bisker. Services Wednesday 1:30 at Hungarian Union Field Cemetery, Glendale, 
 HINES--Gregory. Our symppathy to Pam and Greg's family on his passing. We will miss his talent and friendship. Board of Directors American Theatre Wing Isabelle Stevenson Chairman of the Board HINES -- Gregory will be missed and always remembered by Ann Reinking, Debra McWaters, Lee
 HORTON--Thomas R., died on August 8 in DeLand, FL. Born in 1926 in Fort Pierce, FL, to Charles M. and Ruby S. Horton, he graduated from the Bolles School in Jacksonville and immediately joined the U.S. Army, where he served as a technical sergeant in Germany during World War II. He and his 
 LASAGNA--Louis C., M.D. The family of Dr. Louis C. Lasagna wishes to express their appreciation for all the kindnesses shown to them at this time. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations in his name may be made to Innisfree Village, 5505 Walnut Level Road, Crozet, Virginia 22932.       
 MENOFF--Murray. Died August 10, 2003. Loving husband of Renee. Devoted father to Anne, Jeff and Jill. Beloved grandfather of Matthew, Rachel, Angel, Dakota, Andrew, Eron, Jarod and Sam. Loving brother of Arthur and Sara. He took much pleasure in life, and in teaching and sharing the things 
 ROSEN--David Lee, February 16, 1938-August 10, 2003, the most beloved and devoted husband of Martha for 43 years, cherished father of Mark (and Ilene) and Janet (and Tim) and the proud, adoring grandfather to Pamela, Alison, Ruthanne, Caroline and Julia, passed away on Sunday, August 10, 20
 ROSENSTEIN -- Neil. My friend, Neil, no my buddy, Neil, for over 50 years saw cancer sneak up on him like a cat burglar. It foreshortened his life so abundant in family relationships and business successes. Neil started off as my accountant and for my entire business life, always pitched in
 SAPUTO--Vito. Passed away peacefully on August 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Norman) for 49 years. Devoted and loving father of Douglas, Paul, Teresa, and son-in-law William C. Crerend. Adoring ''Poppie'' to Lucy Anania and William Saputo Crerend. Faithful brother of Andrew, Rober
 SCHWARTZ -- David. With profound sorrow we mourn the passing of David. Our heartfelt condolences to Muriel, Susan, Ricky, Lindsay, Michael, Marissa, and their families. May his courage and spirit be an inspiration to all those he touched. Marilyn and Steve, Lauren and Josh SCHWARTZ 
 SEELER--Richard W., 84, on August 7, 2003 of Forest Hills Gardens, New York. Born March 20, 1919 to Fred and Tillie Seeler. He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Elizabeth Pretlow; father of Anne Carter Seeler & Evelyn Seeler McKay; grandfather of Jack and Elizabeth McKay; father-in-law t
 SLOAN--Walter Forbes, age 91, died on August 5, 2003 of cancer. He retired as General Tax Counsel of Caltex in 1977. Beloved husband of Margaret O'Brien Sloan for 64 years, loving father of Tina Sloan McPherson, John Sloan, and the late Margo Sloan Pearson. He leaves six grandchildren. Born
 STERN--Harold B., CPA, MBA, CFP, Senior Partner of Bronstein and Stern, CPAs. Passed away on August 11, 2003 of natural causes. He was 89. He is survived by his wife Ruth and brothers Bill and Mel. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Mannes College of Music and the Hebrew Home and Hospital
 Billy Rogell, a leading shortstop of the 1930's who played on two pennant-winning teams with the Detroit Tigers, died Saturday at a hospital in Warren, Mich. Rogell, who lived in Sterling Heights, Mich., was 98. Playing in the major leagues for 14 seasons -- 3 with the Boston Red So
 ANDERSON--Edwin. Died on August 8, 2003, at age 87, in Boca Raton. Beloved husband of 44 years of the late Rosalyne (Kaminsky). He is survived by his wife Marilyn; his children Mindy, Dale and Doug Anderson; his grandchildren Michael and Ellen Feld, Barrie and Chuck Birge, Melissa and Stefa
 BERNSTEIN -- Cal (Calvin Joseph). Cal Bernstein, loving husband of 53-years to Roz, caring father to Josh (and Yolanda Ramirez) and Jonine (and Randy Mastro), proud grandfather to Arianna Mastro, adoring brother to Claire Koslow, fond uncle to his nieces and nephews, and loyal friend to man
 BLECH--Meyer, 77, served for 25 years as a Jewish chaplain at the Brooklyn and Manhattan Veteran's Hospital. During the Korean War, Rabbi Blech served as a chaplain to the troops. During the 1980s, he was a founder of several biotechnology companies working on products for cancer and AIDS. 
 LAVAY--Victor Herbert, CEO and co-founder of Vending Times, died August 11th, 2003 after a brief illness. He was 78. Mr. Lavay served in the U.S. Navy during WWII. After attending college under the GI Bill, he pursued a career in advertising, leading him to the trade journalism field. In 19
 LUDGIN--Chester. New York City Opera deeply mourns the passing of Chester Ludgin, leading baritone with our company from his debut in 1957 as Dr. Falke in ''Die Fledermaus'' until his 1991 engagement as Tony in ''The Most Happy Fella''. He sang all the leading Verdi and Puccini roles here, 
 SCHWARTZ -- David. We mourn the loss of a wonderful man, Dvaid Schwartz, father to our dear friends, Susan and Ricky Etra. May he rest in peace. Helen and Harold Bernstein Jill and Jay Bernstein Ellen and Harvey Sanders       
 SEELER--Richard W., 84, on August 7, 2003 of Forest Hills Gardens, New York. Born March 20, 1919 to Fred and Tillie Seeler. He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Elizabeth Pretlow; father of Anne Carter Seeler & Evelyn Seeler McKay; grandfather of Jack and Elizabeth McKay; father-in-law t
 SHARP--Thomas A. Born 1915, died on Sanibel Island, FL on August 10. Mr. Sharp graduated in the Class of '37 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Alice (Bobbie) Carpender Sharp of Sanibel and daughter Tyrrell Carpender Sharp of Laughl
 SLOAN--Walter Forbes, age 91, died on August 5, 2003 of cancer. He retired as General Tax Counsel of Caltex in 1977. Beloved husband of Margaret O'Brien Sloan for 64 years, loving father of Tina Sloan McPherson, John Sloan, and the late Margo Sloan Pearson. He leaves six grandchildren. Born
 STERN--Harold B., CPA, MBA, CFP, Senior Partner of Braunstein & Stern, CPAs. Passed away on August 11, 2003 of natural causes. He was 89. He is survived by his wife Ruth Cuker and brothers Bill and Mel. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Mannes College of Music and the Jewish Home and Hos
 Armand Borel, a Swiss-born mathematician who became a towering figure in the development of modern mathematics, died on Monday in Princeton, N.J. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Dominique Odette Susan Borel. Dr. Borel, who was a professor emeritus at the I
 Judge Fred I. Parker, of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Burlington, Vt., died in Burlington on Tuesday, his office said. He was 65. He had been undergoing a procedure to adjust a pacemaker, The Associated Press reported. Judge Parker, named to t
 AUERBACH--Theodore J. Of Monmouth Beach, NJ on Tuesday, August 12, 2003. A wonderful man, our beloved friend, trusted partner and loyal confidante. Funeral services Thursday, August 14, 11 AM at Temple Beth Miriam, South Lincoln Ave, Elberon, NJ. Our love and sympathy to Betta and the famil
 BURWICK--Martin I. Born December 24, 1917, died August 8, 2003. Beloved husband to Florence. Devoted father to Bruce, Sanford and father-inlaw to his wife Neila. Loving grandfather to Lance, Myles, Max, Rachel and Sara. Caring brother and uncle. A loyal friend. He will be dearly missed.    
 COOPER -- Nathan, Passed away on August 10, 2003 at age 89 with his children at his side. Loving husband of the late Ruth (Cohen). Devotedfather of Susan and Ellis, cherished father-in-law of Marti Coleman and proud grandfather of Josh and Noah. A strong yet gentle man who will be missed. S
 DEVENS--Charles. Of Milton, MA died on August 13, 2003, at age 93, in Prouts Neck, ME. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Chace Emmet, three children, Charles Devens, Jr. of Essex, MA, Edith D. Iler of Beverly, MA and Robert S. Devens of New York, eight grandchildren and one great grandc
 HINES -- Gregory. Heartfelt condolences to the Hines family on the passing of Gregory. His warmth, kindness and fantastic sense of humor will be greatly missed. Skipper, David & everyone at Skipper's Place       
 LANDIS--Howard (born Howard Lefkowitz, Brooklyn, NY). Passed away August 12, 2003 at age 82 at his home in Valley Stream, NY. Attended Brooklyn College and met his late wife Carol of 57 years. He was a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy and held management positions with Fairchild Publications, We
 LEHRER--Roy, 87, died on August 13th, 2003. Beloved husband of Cecille Davis. Loving father of Noel and Esther, Peter and Harriet, and Sande and Marilyn and stepfather of Eric and Pamela Davis. Proud and adoring grandfather of Dana, Alison and Carly Lehrer and Jonathan Davis. Brother of Blo
 MANGINI--Chris, died of liver cancer on August 12, 2003. He is survived by his life partner, David Rankin. Services will be held at Redden's Funeral Home, 212-242-1456. Visiting 25 & 7-9pm, Friday, August 15.       
 MCNALLY--John F., 77, of Wellington, Florida, passed away at home on Thursday, August 7, 2003. He was born in New York City on June 16, 1926. John attended Fordham University in New York and was a US Army Veteran. He was a Supervisor of Investigations for the Corp Counsel Office for the Cit
 MOSES--Henry. The partners, associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin & Ustin, LLP express our profound sadness at the passing of our friend Henry Moses. He touched us all with his insightful, analytical mind, his devotion to his family, and his cheesecakes. This successful, gentle and caring
 SCHWARTZ -- David. We mourn the loss of a wonderful man, Dvaid Schwartz, father to our dear friends, Susan and Ricky Etra. May he rest in peace. Helen and Harold Bernstein Jill and Jay Bernstein Ellen and Harvey Sanders       
 SEELER--Richard W., 84, on August 7, 2003 of Forest Hills Gardens, New York. Born March 20, 1919 to Fred and Tillie Seeler. He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Elizabeth Pretlow; father of Anne Carter Seeler & Evelyn Seeler McKay; grandfather of Jack and Elizabeth McKay; father-in-law t
 SMIRNOFF--Alexander G. Director of Telecommunications and Broadcasting at the Empire State Building. Died August 11, 2003. Born 1940 was 62 years old, wife Susan, one son, two daughters, two grandchildren, mother and sister. Funeral services, 10 AM, Saturday, August 16 at Noroton Presbyteri
 Kirk Varnedoe, the articulate, courtly and wide-ranging art historian who as chief curator of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art helped to reshape the museum's collection and philosophy and in so doing created a broader public understanding of modern art, died yesterday at M
 DEVENS--Charles. Of Milton, MA died on August 13, 2003, at age 93, in Prouts Neck, ME. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Chace Emmet, three children, Charles Devens, Jr. of Essex, MA, Edith D. Iler of Beverly, MA and Robert S. Devens of New York, eight grandchildren and one great grandc
 LORBER--Martin A. Of Sands Point, NY. Born August 15, 1940, passed away August 13, 2003. Loving husband of Annette, and devoted father of Stephanie and Fred Rigos, Jacqueline and Gaetano Scannavino, Jonathan, Victoria and Marc Shapiro, Lisa and Gregory Fortunoff, and Eve and Jonathan Winsto
 MENDELSON -- Irving. Be loved husband of the late Phyllis Mendelson, devoted father of Elliot Mendelson and loving grandfather of Jordan and Danny Mendelson. He touched all who came in contact with him and will be deeply missed by all.       
 OLTUSKI--Steven. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Steven Oltuski, beloved son of our devoted members, Jack and Dora Oltuski, brother of Paul and Ilona Oltuski. Our deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President OLTUSKI--Steven. To t
 ROGOVIN--Ira. The law firm of Dinkes and Schwitzer mourns the untimely death of our dear friend, Ira. He was one of a kind. Our deepest condolences to his family. Bill Dinkes and William Schwitzer       
 SMIRNOFF--Alexander G. Director of Telecommunications and Broadcasting at the Empire State Building. Died August 11, 2003. Born 1940 was 62 years old, wife Susan, one son, two daughters, two grandchildren, mother and sister. Funeral services, 10 AM, Saturday, August 16 at Noroton Presbyteri
 STRAUSS--Louise. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends heartfelt condolences to its devoted Board member Michael Strauss and family upon the passing of his mother. Hamakom Yerachemchem       
 VARNEDOE--Kirk. The International Council of the Museum of Modern Art is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Kirk Varnedoe. Kirk was a cherished friend who generously shared his extraordinary knowledge, his inspired passion for art, and his incredible gift for life with people around
 Edward Porter Alexander, an authority on museums, died on July 31 at a rehabilitation center in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 96. He was president of the American Association of Museums and the founder and first director of the University of Delaware's Museum Studies Program. His 
 Harold Altman, a painter, printmaker and lithographer whose work was shown internationally and in major American museums including the Whitney and the Museum of Modern Art, died on July 28 in State College, Pa. He was 79. The cause was heart failure, his family said. For the
 James F. Romano, a longtime curator at the Brooklyn Museum of Art who recently finished the reinstallation of the museum's famed Egyptian collection, died on Monday morning in Lynbrook, N.Y., when the car he was driving veered off the road and hit a metal fence. He was 56 and lived in the n
 ENGLER--Berl. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of it's devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 GITTLESON--Allan Tod. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Chairman Emeritus Allan Tod Gittleson. A generous and dedicated member of the Hofstra University Board of Trustees from 1967, he served as Chair from 1973 through 1975. He was named Chairman Emeritus in 1992. He
 OLMSTED--Robert G. Adelphi University mourns the passing of Robert G. Olmsted, our former trustee, interim President, Trustee Emeritus and benefactor. He was a visionary leader who shared his knowledge and guidance with the entire Adelphi community. We will build upon his legacy of commitme
 ROSENSTEIN--Neil. It is with great sadness that the family of Neil Rosenstein reports his death. Neil was courageous, optimistic and determined in his sudden and brief battle with pancreatic cancer. He died Saturday, August 9th, at home in Carmel, CA at the age of 77. Born in The Bronx in 1
 SMIRNOFF--Alexander G. Director of Telecommunications and Broadcasting at the Empire State Building. Died August 11, 2003. Born 1940 was 62 years old, wife Susan, one son, two daughters, two grandchildren, mother and sister. Funeral services, 10 AM, Saturday, August 16 at Noroton Presbyteri
 VARNEDOE--Kirk. The International Council of the Museum of Modern Art is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Kirk Varnedoe. Kirk was a cherished friend who generously shared his extraordinary knowledge, his inspired passion for art, and his incredible gift for life with people around
 Ward Bennett, a New York designer of furniture, houses and much more, whose clean lines and exquisite materials quietly defined an era, died on Wednesday in Key West, Fla. He was 85. At the height of his career in the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Bennett represented a distinctly American lo
 Chester Ludgin, a baritone who sang more than 30 roles for the New York City Opera, including leading roles in its world premieres of ''The Crucible'' by Robert Ward and ''The Good Soldier Schweik'' by Robert Kurka, died on Aug. 9 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He was 78. The 
 Claude Martel, a senior art director of The New York Times Magazine, died on Thursday in Ottawa. He was 34 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was plasmablastic multiple myeloma, a cancer of the blood, said Janet Froelich, the magazine's art director. Mr. Martel was a skilled 
 Idi Amin, whose eight-year reign of terror in Uganda encompassed widespread killing, torture and dispossession of multitudes and left the country pauperized, died yesterday in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, where he had lived for years in exile. He was believed to have been about 78 years old, though
 BIEDERMAN--Stuart. To encapsulate what you meant to us in words is an insurmountable task. All we can offer is thanks for your endless giving with ''no strings attached.'' You were an asset to our company and even more as a friend. You will sorely be missed but never forgotten. Troy David K
 COHEN--Adam. We mourn the tragic loss of such a special young man. He was part of our family as Jayme was part of yours. Love, Wendy, Gary, Brian Sigman COHEN--Adam. Our hearts are broken for David, Jodi, and Max. The light and joy of Adam's smile will always be with us. Paul, Lauri
 GILMOR--Robert, 94, on August 14, 2003 at Rosenthal Hospice, Stamford, CT. Formerly of Oyster Bay, NY. Former partner and officer of Paine, Webber, Jackson and Curtis. Born on December 2, 1908 to Robert and Mary Olina Maxwell Gilmor, he was the husband of the late Elizabeth Robert Gilmor an
 GREEN--Peter. On August 15, 2003. Beloved husband of Peggy. Loving father of Jason. Devoted son of Ralph and the late Edna. Dear brother of Jeffrey. Service Sunday, 1:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave, NYC. GREEN -- Peter. Dellwood Country Club, New City, New Yo
 GUNTER--Herbert. On August 13, after a series of illnesses patiently borne. Aged 80. Darling husband and best friend of Joan Elizabeth (nee Hurley), and cherised father of Carol Blumert of San Diego, CA, Randy Gunter of Canyon Lakes, CA, and Amanda Gunter of Jupiter, FL. Dear brother and br
 LAWSKY--Steven H. On August 13, 2003. Loving, devoted and adored husband of Judith, father of Robert and Michael and good friend to many. He will be missed by all who were graced by his presence.       
 RICHLAND--W. Bernard. August 14, 2003. Born in Liverpool, England, March 25, 1909. Predeceased by his wife Pauline and seven brothers and sisters. Survived by his sister Gladys Sarony Frye, his beloved and adoring family, daughters Robin Silverton and Lisa Richland, grandchildren Seth Silve
 SCOTT--Robert Livingston, Jr. ''Skip'', died August 8, 2003. World class race car driver, exceptional pilot, avid seaman and infamous raconteur. He will be forever remembered by his children Sara, Christopher and Gates and his grandchildren Hannah, Peter, Adam, Andrew and Cordelia.       
 SOHMER--Abram, MD. A much-admired and beloved family doctor for more than fifty years, Abram Sohmer died in his sleep on August 6th after a long illness patiently suffered. His wife was at his side. Abram Sohmer earned his M.D. in 1939 at Emory University, Atlanta, and served as a Lieutenan
 VAN RENSSELAER--Alexander. Artist and creative visionary, died Sunday, July 27, 2003 in Marina del Rey. He was 35 years old and had been a resident of California for the past 4 years. A native of Westport, CT, Alex was a direct descendant of Kiliaen Van Rensselaer (1580-1643) of Amsterdam, 
 VARNEDOE--Kirk. It is with the greatest saddness that the Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the untimely death of their dear friend and former colleague, Kirk Varnedoe, who was for many years the Museum's Chief Curator in the Department of Painting and Sculpture. Kirk lea
 Richard W. Seeler, a New York City real estate broker and a former chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York, died on Aug. 7 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Queens. In 1998, while with Grubb & Ellis New York, a major provider of real estate services,
 Bhupen Khakhar, a painter of social and personal narratives who was one of the most influential artists of his generation in India, died on Aug. 8 in Baroda, India. He was 69. The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokesman at Bose Pacia Modern, a Manhattan gallery that has shown hi
 George B. Rabinor, who was active in the development of rental housing in New York City, on Long Island and elsewhere in New York, Pennsylvania and Florida, died on July 22 at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 91. He was an officer of the Long Island Home Builders Association and 
 Allen Latham Jr., who spent most of his career as an industrial engineer but was best known for his innovations to blood-processing instruments, died Aug. 5 at his home in Jamaica Plain, Mass. He was 95. In the early 1950's, Mr. Latham, who was known as Jack, collaborated with Edwin
 John Higham, a cultural historian who examined the interplay of ethnic and national identity in the United States, died July 26 at his home in Baltimore. He was 82. The cause was a cerebral aneurysm, said Dorothy Ross, a history professor at Johns Hopkins University, where Dr. Higha
 ENGLER--Berl E. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, and extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Joyce, his daughter Pam and his son-in-law Bruce. Ronald M. Stuart, Pres. Joyce Baumgarten, Secy. ENGLER--Be
 GILINSKY--Stanley Ellis. Former Saks Executive. 85, of Richmond, Virginia, formerly of Teaneck, New Jersey, died August 12, 2003. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Gerry; daughter, Ellen, her husband, Leonard Smock and their children, David and Becky; son, Michael, his wife, Margaret 
 LOWE--Philip L. Of Boston and Grand Cayman, B.W.I. On August 15, 2003; husband of the late Carole Myers Lowe. Past President and CEO of ITT Sheraton Corporation. Lovingly remembered by his son, Philip M. (Perry) Lowe and his wife Delphine of Cambridge, a grandson, Todd M. Lowe of New York, 
 MILLS--John Francis, Esq. 63, of Lido Beach, New York. On August 15, 2003. John is surived by his beloved wife Donna and their children Jacqueline and Kevin, his son John Jr., his daughter Jennifer Mills Berlingieri, her husband Michael Berlingieri, and John's grandchildren, Julian and Alex
 SCHUPAK--Sidney S. Died peacefully in his home in New Rochelle Saturday afternoon. He is survived by his beautiful wife of sixty-four years, Helen, and his two children Donald (wife Cynthia) and Janice (husband Larry). Also surviving are his seven grandchildren Andrew, Ariel (husband Rafael
 VARNEDOE--Kirk. It is with the greatest saddness that the Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the untimely death of their dear friend and former colleague, Kirk Varnedoe, who was for many years the Museum's Chief Curator in the Department of Painting and Sculpture. Kirk lea
 Donald J. Winn, an influential senior official of the Federal Reserve Board for two decades, died on Thursday in Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 66 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. He had pancreatic cancer, his son Daniel said. As chief lobbyist for the boa
 James T. Whitehead, whose only published novel, ''Joiner,'' a coming-of-age novel about segregationist Mississippi, received critical acclaim, died here on Friday. He was 67 and lived in Fayetteville. The cause was a ruptured aortic aneurysm, his family said. In 1971 Mr. Whi
 ADLER--Julius Ochs, 78, died on August 18, 2003 after a long illness. Mr. Adler is survived by his wife, Deirdre Spencer Adler, a son, Douglas O. Adler, two daughters, Anne A. Tarbell and Mary B. Malhotra, as well as an aunt, two sisters, three step children, 13 grandchildren, and two great
 ANDERSON--Charles B., 85, died August 17, 2003 in Princeton, NJ. He is the beloved husband of Marian McCague Anderson (Miney); devoted father of Lainey Anderson, Cynthia Anderson, Meg Ryan, Christine Anderson and Duncan McArthur Anderson; loving brother of Allison Vulte; cherished grandfath
 BARNES--Kenneth Silas, of Levittown, New York died Friday, August 15, 2003 at New Island Hospital. He was 85. Beloved husband of Madaline A. Hime. Loving father of Jolee Zola of Cambridge, Massachusetts, Jane Victor of Pittsburg, Kansas and Amy Fowler of Renton, Washington. Devoted uncle to
 CARP--Robert. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Robert Carp, and send condolences to his family.       
 DAWSON--John William III, 72, of Ellington, CT, formerly of NY died, August 11, son of the late John W. and Anne B. Dawson, Jr. He was associated in the moving and shipping business. Burial Friday, August 22, Noon, Greenfield Cemetery, Hempstead, NY.       
 FINNERAN--John Buckley, 69, passed away Monday, August 18, 2003 in Stamford, CT. Born on July 14, 1934, he grew up in Larchmont, NY and graduated from Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains. A 1956 graduate of Tufts University in Boston, Mr. Finneran served as a Commissary and Sale
 FITZPATRICK--Thomas B. M.D., Ph.D. The Department of Dermatology at New York University School of Medicine notes with sorrow the passing of Tom Fitzpatrick, Chairman-Emeritus of the Department of Dermatology at the Harvard Medical School. At Harvard and the MGH, TBF trained many dermatologi
 GREEN--Jack. 97, on August 16, 2003 in Boulder, CO. Beloved husband of late Nora, father of Roberta & Ken, grandfather of Jean Marc, Mithra, Tracy and Elysia, brother of Esther. Will be missed for his wit, energy, generosity & love for New York.       
 GREENE--Benton. Devoted husband of Harriet, beloved father of Robyn Chwatt and Linda Rosenberg. Adored grandfather of Brian, Keith, Michelle and Joy. Our hero who was bigger than life, passed quietly in his sleep to look over us all. Your presence will be within us forever. Richard & Robyn 
 GREENSPAN--Paul M. Died peacefully. Beloved husband of Rita, devoted father of Eric and Maxine Greenspan, Raymond and Karen Cohen, cherished grandfather of Perry, Philip, Michael, Spencer and Chelsea, loving brother of Bernard Greenspan. He will be sorely missed. Services Thursday, August 2
 JACKSON--Joseph Hamilton. Born June 15, 1901 in East Orange, NJ. Died August 19, 2003 at home at age 102. Only child of B.G. Joseph Cook Jackson, Jr. Insurance executive of Hartford, CT; and Mabel Goodsell Jackson, newspaper reporter for the old Newark Evening News. Mr. Jackson was a worldw
 McNELIS--Edward, 72. New York University Department of Chemistry mourns the passing of our beloved colleague Edward McNelis, professor of chemistry and former department chair. An active scholar and devoted teacher, he served NYU for 36 years, making numerous contributions to the field of o
 O'LEARY--Walter E. December 2, 1925-July 19, 2003. At home, in Berkeley, California with his family in attendance; wife, Joan, daughter Ellin, son - in - law Timothy Mc Govern, grandchildren Maeve, Molly and Byron. Brother of the late Joseph of San Jose, CA and Bill of Pittsfield, MA, survi
 OLMSTED--Robert Groves, 94, of Palm City, FL. died on August 12 in San Diego. A graduate of Exeter, Yale and Harvard Business School, he was a retired finance and education executive. He worked at LILCO 1938-1960, was vice president of Columbia University 1960-1965, and president of Adelphi
 OSHRIN--Honorable Alan David, of Miller Place, NY on August 17, 2003 in his 64th year. Beloved husband of Judith. Devoted father of Benjamin Oshrin and Gayle Oshrin. Loving brother of Brian and Donna and loving uncle of Adam and Scott. Dear son-inlaw of Adele Recht. Judge Oshrin was Justice
 PALAZZO--Joseph J. Age 52. On August 14, 2003. Loving and cherished father of Melissa and Joseph. Beloved grandfather of Marissa. Life partner of Dean Steigauf. Also survived by his former wife and loving friend, Colleen Dubois. Joseph passed away of a heart attack on the Queensboro Bridge 
 RUBINSTEIN--Amnon, died in New York City on August 5, 2003, after a brief illness. Much beloved by his family and many friends. A wonderful sense of humor and of the absurd accompanied his abundant generosity and kindness. He worked as a planner for Architectural Forum, I.M. Pei and NYC Dep
 SAIDLOWER--Irving. EMUNAH of America mourns the loss of Irving Saidlower, beloved father of Sylvia Schonfeld, our Chairman of the Board and Honorary National President and her brother Mendy Saidlower. Irving was a devoted father and grandfather, an honorable devout man who was a greatly res
 SARON--Robert Bernard. Family and friends mourn the passing of Robert Bernard Saron, born October 26, 1924, died August 17, 2003. He will be deeply missed by son Clifford, daughter-in-law Barbara Bogatin, companion Mildred Reiner and his beloved grandchildren, Gabriel and Rayna. In lieu of 
 SCHUPAK--Sidney S. The ''Friends of Leadership'' extend heartfelt condolences to our best ''Friend'' Donald and the Schupak family on the passing of Sidney Schupak. Donald, you made him proud.       
 SHAFFER--Jack A. On August 18, 2003. Loving husband of Kelly Shaffer; cherished father of Andrea Collins, Stephi Wolff and Dana Hayden; fond brother of Nicole Rothschild; adored grandfather of Drew, Matt, Jack, Charlie, Aaron, Emily, Griffin, Levi, Isaac and Luke. Friends may call Thursday 
 STALLMAN -- Andrew. We mourn the untimely, sudden death of Andy Stallman, caring friend and champion of the underdog. A brilliant and insightful, successful investor, Andy devoted his time and his monetary successes to helping others, especially the homeless. We all have stories to tell abo
 TOMASHOFF--David. Dear Helen and family, your grief is profound but your memories of your beloved husband, father, grandfather are golden and everlasting. He was always a picture of elegance, his ties were always a classic, as were our own personal ties in doing business together. May the e
 VARNEDOE -- Kirk. The members of The Contemporary Arts Council of The Museum of Modern Art deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed friend and colleague, Kirk Varnedoe. Kirk, through his extraordinary scholarship and irrepressible enthusiasm for art and artists, expanded all of our horizons 
 Thomas W. Kellogg, an industrial designer who worked on the Avanti, a radically styled, powerful sports coupe that could not save its maker, Studebaker, from financial collapse, died on Thursday in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 71 and lived in Irvine, Calif. A daughter, Kris Machado,
 W. Bernard Richland, who as corporation counsel of the City of New York was the city's chief lawyer during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and was a principal framer of its periodic charter updates, died on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 94. Mr. Richland's service 
 Dana Merriam Raymond, a patent lawyer who won or achieved settlements in 21 lawsuits filed by the inventor of FM radio against companies that had denied him credit and compensation, died on Aug. 3 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Raymond represented Edwin Howard A
 Ed Townsend, a singer and songwriter who with Marvin Gaye produced and wrote the 1973 hit ''Let's Get It On,'' one of the most enduringly erotic songs of the R&B era, died on Aug. 13 at a hospital in San Bernardino, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Sun City, Calif. The cause was a hear
 Julius Ochs Adler Jr., a business executive and public relations consultant who ran a popular independent bookstore in Manhattan for 16 years, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his so
 Sergio Vieira de Mello, the top United Nations official in Iraq and the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, who had served the organization in trouble spots around the globe, died yesterday from injuries received in the bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. H
 Arthur C. Helton, a New York lawyer and human rights activist who devoted most of his professional life to the help and protection of refugees, died in the bomb attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on Tuesday, the Council on Foreign Relations announced yesterday. He was 54. 
 HE was beaten by racists in Louisiana in 1965. He protested at segregated businesses in Ohio. Served as a leader of the Congress of Racial Equality, one of the leading civil rights groups in the 1960's. Worked in the trenches of antipoverty programs in the early 1970's. That was the
 Jack Arnold Shaffer, a Manhattan investment banker who specialized in major real estate deals like the sale of the Plaza Hotel, died on Monday in Norwalk, Conn. A resident of the East Side of Manhattan, he was 73 and had a weekend home in Westport. The cause was complications of kid
 ADLER--Julius Ochs, 78, died on August 18, 2003 after a long illness. Mr. Adler is survived by his wife, Deirdre Spencer Adler, a son, Douglas O. Adler, two daughters, Anne A. Tarbell and Mary B. Malhotra, as well as an aunt, two sisters, three step children, 13 grandchildren, and two great
 ALPERN--Lloyd. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted, long-time member, Lloyd Alpern. Our deepest sympathy is extended to all his dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President       
 CARP--Robert. The American Heart Association, NYC Board of Directors, volunteers and staff mourn the loss of our NYC Board Member and philanthropist, Robert Carp, a dear friend, volunteer and generous benefactor of our mission to save lives from heart disease and stroke. In his commitment t
 CHASE--W. Howard. Pioneer in the field of Public Relations and Issue Management, died on August 19, 2003 in Stamford, CT. He was 93. Visiting hours 4-8 PM on Friday, August 22, 2003 at the Nicholas F. Cognetta Funeral Home and Crematory, 104 Myrtle Ave, Stamford, CT. A Memorial Service will
 FISHER--C. Herbert, 84, of Greenwich, CT & Quogue, NY on August 14, 2003. Husband of the late Wanda. Survived by his stepdaughter Patricia Owen of Los Angeles, CA, his niece Jano Nolette of Toledo, OH, his nephew Thomas Fisher of Stamford, CT., and his sister-in-law Jano Fisher of Riverside
 GREENSPAN--Paul M. Big brother, business partner, protector, role model. Mere words can never express my love and gratitude. Bud GREENSPAN -- Paul M. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to my beautiful daughter-in-law Karen Cohen and to her brother Eric on the loss of their precious fath
 HAYWOOD--Joseph S., 76, on August 20, 2003. Beloved and cherished husband of Joan, loving father of Peter, Betsey and Lisa, dearest father-inlaw to Jamie and Alyson, devoted grandfather of Lyndsay, Jack and Henry. Loved by all who knew him. Services Friday, August 22 at 10:30AM Scarsdale Sy
 JACKSON--Robert. Internationally known muralist and painter, died August 17, at home in Livingston, NY at 72. Painted murals in the U.S., England, Canada, Netherlands, France, Italy, including rooms in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, U.S. Department of State, White House, Blair House. His p
 JIRANEK--David. It is with much sadness that we announce the death of David Jiranek, 45, who passed away Sunday, August 17. He was a Broadway producer, a writer, a photographer, a philanthropist and a family man. His passing will be deeply felt in the New York theater and in Old Greenwich, 
 MURNION--Monsignor Philip J. On August 19, 2003. Beloved son of the late Frances and the late William Murnion. Loving brother of William and Deborah Murnion, Rose Mary and Victor Gerdes and John and Kathleen Murnion. He was a dedicated priest of the Archdiocese of New York and founder and D
 RAYMOND--Edward A., Dr. 88, died at his home in Scarsdale NY on August 18, 2003. He had been under home hospice care for several months after treatment for cancer. The son of Edward Raymond of Bedford, NY and Louise Hammond Raymond of Greens Farms, CT, he was raised in Scarsdale NY. He atte
 RUDY--Stephen. Professor and former Chairman of the NYU Department of Russian and Slavic Studies; died on August 13, 2003. He will be missed by many friends, colleagues, students and by his family. A Memorial Service will be held at Ireland House, 1 Washington Mews, NYC on August 25th at 7P
 SHANLEY--Richard N., 86, of Oceanport, NJ, formerly of Rumson, NJ, on August 20, 2003. Former Sales Manager for Cook & Dunn Paints, husband of the late Rita nee McLoughlin, father of Richard N. Shanley, Jr. and Frank E. and his wife Jeanne Shanley, grandfather of Molly, Casey and Jack. No v
 HYM--Jean-Louis. In remembrance of Jean-Louis Hym who died 20 years ago in New York City, a murder still unsolved. From his family and friends. Helene Hym-Williams, 27 rue de la Pierre, 37100 Tours, France       
 John Coplans, a founder and former editor of Artforum magazine, whose career also encompassed phases as a painter, critic, curator, museum director and finally a photographer of discomfiting images of his own aging body, died yesterday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 83 and lived in Manhatt
 Msgr. Philip J. Murnion, whose work as a sociologist, organizer and adviser to parish and diocesan leaders made him a major behind-the-scenes influence in the Roman Catholic Church in the United States, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 65. The cause was colon cancer, his family 
 ADLER--Julius Ochs, 78, died on August 18, 2003 after a long illness. Mr. Adler is survived by his wife, Deirdre Spencer Adler, a son, Douglas O. Adler, two daughters, Anne A. Tarbell and Mary B. Malhotra, as well as an aunt, two sisters, three step children, 13 grandchildren, and two great
 ALPERN--Lloyd J. Only child of the late Bernard E. and Mae Alpern, died suddenly on August 19, 2003 at the age of 75. A kind and charitable man, revered by family and friends, who as president of the Alpern Family Foundation was instrumental in generously supporting research in cerebral pal
 CARP--Robert. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the American Red Cross in Greater New York note with sadness the loss of Bob Carp, our friend and supporter for 60 years. He served as a Red Cross Field Director during WWII, and was a member of the Greater New Yorkers Circle and The Clara Ba
 COPLAN--Alfred I. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our friend and Board member, Alfred I. Coplan. As a leading member of the Board's Investment Committee, Al's tireless devotion and great financial acum
 EWEN--William H., 90, beloved husband of Cathleen E. (Ryan) Ewen, of Westerly, RI died at the Westerly Hospital, August 19, 2003. Mr. Ewen was born in Yonkers, NY. Son of the late William C. and Marjorie Ewen. He was raised in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. He was a 1935 graduate of New York Unive
 HAYWOOD--Joseph S., 76, on August 20, 2003. Beloved and cherished husband of Joan, loving father of Peter, Betsey and Lisa, dearest father-inlaw to Jamie and Alyson, devoted grandfather of Lyndsay, Jack and Henry. Loved by all who knew him. Services Friday, August 22 at 10:30AM Scarsdale Sy
 HEYMANN--Barry. Beloved cousin of Toni Rabin, suddenly, in Cape Town Aug. 19. Our hearts are with Bea and family. We deeply mourn him.       
 JEROME--Jack W., 79, died peacefully, August 20th. Adored husband of Dee Intrator Jerome, brother of Rosalie Zlotnik (and Mike Zlotnik) and the late Burt Jerome (and Marilyn Jerome), beloved father of Deborah Jerome Cohen and Mimi Jerome Krumholz, loving father-in-law to Roger Cohen and And
 JIRANEK--David. Avid theater producer, passionate and visionary humanitarian, loyal and generous friend. With a phenomenal spirit, keen intellect, irresistible charm, and wry, ironic humor, he embraced life enthusiastically and made it more fun for those of us lucky enough to know him. His 
 MELZLER--Richard F. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Richard F. Melzler associated with The Times from June 14, 1937 until his retirement on April 1, 1982.       
 MURNION--Monsignor Philip J. On August 19, 2003. Beloved son of the late Frances and the late William Murnion. Loving brother of William and Deborah Murnion, Rose Mary and Victor Gerdes and John and Kathleen Murnion. He was a dedicated priest of the Archdiocese of New York and founder and D
 REISS--Frank Ronald. Died on Wednesday, August 20, 2003, at Morris Hill Elder Care Center in Morristown. He was 75. Born in West Orange, he lived in Warren Center, PA, before he moved to Rockaway Township in 1990. He served in the Army during World War II. He was the executive director of t
 SILVERMAN--Herbert R. My deepest condolences to my children, Debbie Silverman and Robin and Harry Keates on the loss of their adored grandfather, Herbert R. Silverman. Deepest sympathies to Henry Silverman and Karen Mayers and their families. Heartfelt words of comfort to my cherished grand
 SPRINGER--Nathan, 74, on August 12th, 2003. Born August 8th, 1929 in Brooklyn to Morris and Yetta. Served as cadre in the US Army at Chaffee, AK. A dedicated truant officer, he counseled and guided the troubled children of NYC. Nathan is survived by his sister, Estelle Warren, his children,
 WALKER--Basil. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Basil Walker associated with The Times from October 1, 1965 until his retirement on July 31, 2000.       
 WINTER--Bernice K., on August 20, 2003. Beloved wife of the late David Winter. Cherished mother of Robert and his wife Sally. Loving grandmother to Andrew, Brooke, Joshua, Sandhya, Noah and Pei-Fen. Funeral services on Sunday, August 24, 2003, 11AM, at Knollwood Park Cemetery, Queens, NY.  
 Archie C. Epps III, one of the first high-ranking black administrators at Harvard, died on Thursday in Boston. He was 66 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was complications of cardiac surgery, Harvard announced. In 1995, Mr. Epps had double-bypass cardiac surgery and, months l
 Cedric Price, one of the most influential British architects of the 20th century, died on Aug. 10. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, possibly brought on by the record-breaking heat wave, said Barbara Jakobson, a close friend who lives in New York. Better known as an i
 Herbert R. Silverman, a prominent figure in the development of commercial finance, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. He made his mark helping finance small businesses seeking to take part in the military procurement programs of World War II. Afterward, as a prime
 ADLER--Julius Ochs, 78, died on August 18, 2003 after a long illness. Mr. Adler is survived by his wife, Deirdre Spencer Adler, a son, Douglas O. Adler, two daughters, Anne A. Tarbell and Mary B. Malhotra, as well as an aunt, two sisters, three step children, 13 grandchildren, and two great
 DePIETRO--Steven, owner of Ilcigno Restaurant, Scarsdale on August 21. Surviving is his wife Deborah, Hastings-onHudson, daughter Siobhan, son Charles, mother Anne Marie Pedry, brothers Robert, Thomas and John. Mass 10AM Monday St. Matthews Church, Hastings, NY. Visiting Sunday 5-8, Edwards
 JIRANEK--David. It is with much sadness that we announce the death of David Jiranek, 45, who passed away Sunday, August 17. He was a Broadway producer, a writer, a photographer, a philanthropist and a family man. His passing will be deeply felt in the New York theater and in Old Greenwich, 
 McLEAN--David Bruce of San Francisco, CA and New York City, NY. Born March 20, 1952. Died peacefully at his home in Stinson Beach, CA surrounded by family and friends. David was loved and adored by his family, and a vast community of friends and admirers. He inspired us with his style, grac
 RAYMOND--Edward A., Dr. On behalf of the Board, management and staff of Thirteen/WNET, we wish to express our condolences to Dr. Raymond's family on the loss of this wonderful man. His commitment and generosity to public television, most recently exemplified through the creation of the Dr E
 SILVERMAN--Herbert R. The Boards of Trustees, faculty, and staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of Herbert R. Silverman, a cherished friend, benefactor and Life Trustee of the Medical Center and New York University. Mr. Silverman's son, Henry R. Silverman, Chairman, President, and 
 SWAN--William E. The Board of Directors and senior management of the Troy Financial Corporation express their profound sadness at the unexpected loss of Bill Swan. The Troy Savings Bank community will miss his energy and his wisdom. We will strive to build on his extraordinary values and vi
 TEICH--Katherine. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of Katherine Teich, wife of our fellow member, Mark Teich, and extends sincere condolencees to him and his family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 WALSH--Thomas Hammill, of Pelham, NY, died August 21, 2003. He is survived by his wife Mary McCauley Walsh, his children Thomas H. Walsh Jr, his wife Lynne, their son Christopher; Paul M. Walsh, his wife Cindy, their children Laura and David; Kathleen M. Walsh and Nicholas F. Walsh, his sis
 Dr. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, who wrote a landmark textbook on dermatology and helped develop a treatment for severe psoriasis that is now widely used for a variety of skin diseases, died last Saturday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 83. In 1971, he published Fitzpatrick's Derma
 Bobby Bonds, who blended power at the plate with speed on the bases to become one of baseball's top players of the 1970's and who combined with his son Barry to form the game's leading father-and-son home run twosome, died yesterday morning in the San Francisco Bay area. He was 57. 
 ADLER--Julius Ochs, 78, died on August 18, 2003 after a long illness. Mr. Adler is survived by his wife, Deirdre Spencer Adler, a son, Douglas O. Adler, two daughters, Anne A. Tarbell and Mary B. Malhotra, as well as an aunt, two sisters, three step children, 13 grandchildren, and two great
 BRAUER--Fred J. 92, Sarasota, FL, died August 15, 2003. He was born December 20, 1910, in St Louis, and came to Sarasota in 1985. He retired as an industrial designer and artist. He was a member of Society of Illustrators in New York, Art Directors Club of New York, and the New York Athleti
 CATES--Dudley Foulke. 85, of West Palm Beach, FL, died August 7, of complications from a stroke at Whitehall, a skilled nursing facility in Boca Raton. Devoted father of George Cates, Valerie Potvin, Jessica Zirinis, Dudley Cates Jr. and the late Alexander Cates. Survived by his brother Dav
 CLARK -- Nathan. Beloved husband of Margaret (nee Newmark). Devoted father of Edward and Jonathan. Cherished grandfather of Matthew and Gregory. Devoted brother of the late Helen Clark and Ruth Clark Sterne. Loving uncle of Richard Clark Sterne. Born in Brooklyn, on January 3, 1908, to Samu
 FACTOR--Robert (Bob). Of La Jolla, CA. Formerly of NYC. Died August 17, 2003. Beloved husband of Elizabeth (Beth) Shapiro. Devoted son of Jacob Factor and the late Frances Factor. Cherished brother of Phyllis Scheinberg. Adored Uncle of Dianne Scheinberg and Eric Turner. Also survived by hi
 GITTELSON--Anders. A leading American Realist painter, he died on July 28 in Atlanta after a long illness. He was 81. Gittelson, whose brush name was Gisson, was born in 1921 in Brooklyn. Graduated from the Pratt Institute and was a Captain in the Army during World War II. Over four decades
 HARNICK--Leon. 86, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Queens, NY, on August 22, 2003. Predeceased by his loving wife Rhoda. Survived by his three children Arlene, Paul and Janet, and eight grandchildren. Past President of Hillcrest Jewish Center, Queens, NY, Past President of the CCNY Alumni As
 HEMMENDINGER -- Henry. 88, died August 16 at his Princeton home. He was an authority on color science and an enthusiastic gardener. He is survived by brothers Arthur and Noel, sons David and Mark, and five grandchildren. The family invites contributions in his name to The Nature Conservancy
 JONES--Dowie, 40, on July 12. Born Bangor, Wales, NYC resident for 10 years, formerly of London. Dowie had a successful advertising career, recently president media-hound, inc. and Board Director with International Advertising Assoc. Survived by mother, Margaret, and brothers, Trefor, Garet
 LING--Daniel, of Canada, passed away at home on August 9, surrounded in love by his family. His life legacy has been teaching deaf children to listen and speak. For this, he was awarded the Order of Canada. See lingnotes.com.       
 McLEAN--David Bruce of San Francisco, CA and New York City, NY. Born March 20, 1952. Died peacefully at his home in Stinson Beach, CA surrounded by family and friends. David was loved and adored by his family, and a vast community of friends and admirers. He inspired us with his style, grac
 OPPENHEIM--David J., Esq. The Trustees of The Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation are saddened by the death of their Chairman on August 7th, 2003 in Green Valley, Arizona. Mr Oppenheim served as Chairman since 1993, following tenure as President of the foundation for more than 16 years. An 
 PITT--Arthur G. Of Mooresville, NC, formerly of Manhasset, NY, on August 6, 2003. Husband of the late Grace Kelly Pitt. He is survived by his children Nancy Hopkins and Lawrence Pitt, brother William Pitt, sister-in-law Evelyn Kelly Zimmerman, and their families.       
 RAUSNITZ--Walter, Most beloved husband of Vera, caring brother of Egon and Paul, devoted father of Gerry and Sarita, and Susan and Peter Strauss. Loving grandfather of David, Daniela and Jonathan and patriarch of a loving extended family. Services Sunday, 10:30AM, Park East Synagogue, 68th 
 SILVERMAN--Herbert R. 91, a corporate financial executive, leading figure in the commercial finance industry, distinguished attorney and philanthropist, died on Thursday, August 21, 2003, in NYC. Mr. Silverman founded Centaur Credit Corporation, a commercial finance company that merged with
 SOBEL -- Theodore (Ted), passed away on July 27, 2003 at the age of 84. Beloved husband of Claire Goldstein Sobel, loving father of Clifford and Barbara Sobel, Peter and Lizbeth Sobel and Wendy and Aaron Barr. Darling grandfather of Scott, Jonathan, Julie, Danielle and Taylor. Dear brother 
 STEMP--Isay (Sy). Passed away suddenly on August 19, 2003. Beloved husband of 53 years to Naomi Kramer Stemp; devoted father to Sarah, Ruth, Leo, and Morris. Loving grandfather to his eight grandchildren. Born in Russia, raised in Cuba, he came to the U.S; graduated from M.I.T. and went on 
 STRAUSS--Rear Admiral Elliott B., USN, died August 19, 2003 in Washington, DC at the age of 100. He is survived by his widow, four children, four grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. The funeral will take place at the Ft. Meyer Chapel on September 10 at 9 AM. In lieu of flowers, the fa
 STURZ--Irwin. April 4, 1915August 21, 2003. Loving father. Loving husband through two long marriages. One who lived well, died peacefully and went down swinging. A passionate golfer, Mr. Sturz was a longtime citizen of New York City and Scarsdale, NY, where he was quietly active in politica
 WESTERKAMP--Paul Richard, 94 years old of Bayside, Queens, NY, died Wednesday, August 20, 2003 in Victoria House Nursing Home in Matawan. He attended Fordham University where he received his BA in accounting. He continued his education at Columbia University and received a Master's Degree i
 GETTINGER -- Milton M., M.D. Yesterday would have been the 36th birthday of our son and brother, whose warm presence is always with us. His memory will be enshrined in a new research library at Lenox Hill Hospital, where he was on the staff, to be known as the Milton Gettinger, M.D. Study C
 David Jiranek, a theatrical producer who was a founder of a brochure display business and a champion for the young victims of Rwanda's ethnic violence, died Aug. 17 in a swimming accident while on vacation in North Hatley, Quebec, his family said. He was 45 and lived in Old Greenwich, Conn.
 George W. Marquardt, an Army Air Forces pilot who took part in the World War II atomic bomb raids on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, died Aug. 15 at a nursing-care center in Murray, Utah. He was 84. He had Parkinson's disease for many years, his wife, Bernece, said. On the morning o
 Haroldo de Campos, who transformed words into whimsical diagrams and subtle critiques of formal poetry as a founder of the 1950's Concrete poetry movement in Brazil, died Aug. 16 in São Paulo. He was 73. The cause was complications of diabetes, the newspaper O Globo reported.      
 Roy Neal, an NBC News television correspondent who covered the American manned space program from fledgling orbiters to the initial shuttle flights, died on Aug. 15 in High Point, N.C., where he had lived in retirement. He was 82. In his 38 years with NBC News, Mr. Neal worked as a 
 Sylvestre Randafison, a virtuoso of the valiha, considered the national instrument of Madagascar, and an ambassador of his country's music, died on July 12. He was 75. The news of his death was reported in The Independent of London and in various online music publications in conjunc
 Thomas Savage, whose spare novels of the American West, without six-shooters and gunsmoke, found wide acceptance in the 1940's and a whole new readership in his later years, died on July 25 in Virginia Beach, where he lived for the past six years. He was 88. When he published his fi
 The Rev. Walter Jackson Ong, a Jesuit scholar of language and its evolution as a means of communication, died on Aug. 12 in St. Louis. He was 90. Father Ong, who taught and wrote at St. Louis University, a Jesuit institution, was the author most notably of ''Orality and Literacy.'' 
 John J. Rhodes, the former House Republican leader who swayed President Richard M. Nixon to resign in the Watergate scandal, died on Sunday night at his home in Mesa, Ariz. He was 86. The cause was cancer, his former press secretary, Jay Smith, said. Originally a staunch def
 DUCOVNY -- Amram. Born September 11, 1927 in Brooklyn, died August 23 in Paris, France. Survived by his children: Daniel, David and Laurie; his wife Varda, two grandchildren and his step-son Jonathan. Plans for a memorial service will be announced.       
 FIXMAN--Gladys. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Gladys Fixman, beloved sister of Stuart Kreisler. We extend our deepest condolences to Stuart and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 LEVINE--Rose. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a woman of compassion and grace, the beloved mother of Hirschell E. Levine, an esteemed member of our Board of Overseers whose extraordinary commitment to biomedical research 
 MCGOVERN -- Gerard. We mourn the passing and note with sadness the loss of our beloved ''Gerry'' McGovern. We will miss his smile, kind word and laughter he shared with all of us. His former colleagues and friends at The Internal Revenue Service Field Audit Group, Manhattan District, NYC.  
 SIEGEL--Sanford H., 84, textile importer. Survived by his wife of 45 years, Thelma; children, Catherine, Leo, William and James; five grandchildren; and siblings, Morton Siegel and Selma Rosenberg.       
 Richard M. Hooper, an American official of the United Nations who specialized in the Middle East, died in the bomb attack last Tuesday on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, Iraq, the United Nations said on Friday. He was 40. Mr. Hooper was on a short assignment in Iraq. Sin
 Robert Jackson, a muralist and master of trompe l'oeil artistry, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Livingston, N.Y. He was 72. He had been suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, said Frederick Corke, his companion. Mr. Jackson's work appears in t
 Frederick L. Deming, an under secretary of the Treasury in the Johnson administration and a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, died Thursday in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Deming, who had been a banker in the Federal Reserve system, was appointed under 
 The Rt. Rev. John Melville Burgess, who was the first African-American to preside as bishop over an Episcopal diocese in the United States, died on Sunday in Vineyard Haven, Mass., where he had lived since 1989. He was 94. Bishop Burgess retired in 1975 as head of the Diocese of Mas
 DUNN--Pauline. The Member Fleets of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade are saddened by the untimely passing of Pauline Dunn, wife of Mitchell, fellow respected NYC Yellow Medallion Taxicab Fleet Operator. Our thoughts and prayers are with Mitch, his three daughters and the entire famil
 FEELINGS--Tom. Illustrator and Artist. Passed away on Monday, August 25, 2003. He is survived by his mother, three sons and a daughter.       
 GARTLAND--John J. The trustees, faculty, staff and students of The Culinary Institute of America (CIA) pay tribute to the life and philanthropy of John J. Gartland, Honorary Trustee. As senior partner at Corbally, Gartland & Rappleyea, Mr. Gartland was instrumental in the college's move to 
 GERSTEIN -- Leonard. The Board of Directors and members of Bocaire Country Club, Inc. record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Leonard Gerstein, on Monday, August 25, 2003. We extend condolences to all of his family. Services to be held Wednesday, August 27, 2PM, at Gutte
 KOCH--Robert., art historian, died Wednesday, August 13, of natural causes at Stamford Hospital. Born April 7, 1918, in New York City, he was the son of the late Millard and Ella Heidelberg Koch. Dr. Koch was a world-renowned expert on Art Nouveau and authored the book ''Louis C. Tiffany, R
 LEISURE--George S., Jr. At age 78, on August 25, 2003. Resident of Sea Island, GA, formerly of NYC. Partner at Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine (1957-93). Survived by his beloved wife of 54 years, Joan Casey; four children: Constance Keeton Leisure (Steven Landers) of Litchfield, CT; sons 
 MUELLER--George C., M.D., of Charleston, SC (formerly of Montauk and New York, NY) died peacefully at the age of 92 on August 22. Dr. Mueller was a retired Professor of Otolaryngology at the Cornell University School of Medicine and Attending Surgeon at The New York Hospital, where he spent
 WORTMAN--Jeffrey D.L., 57, dealer in prints and drawings, Died on August 23 in New York City. He is survived by his parents, Dr. Harry and Marilyn Wortman, and brother, Stephen. Plans for a memorial service will be announced. In lieu of flowers, donations to the John C. Glover Swimming Fund
 Wilfred Thesiger, who was among the last of the great explorers lucky enough to have lived when the globe still had some uncharted corners, died on Sunday in England. He was 93 and had been living in a retirement home in Coulsdon, Surrey. Sir Wilfred was an insatiable traveler throu
 Marion Hargrove, the hapless G.I. whose light-hearted account of Army basic training, ''See Here, Private Hargrove,'' became a No. 1 best seller in 1942 and transformed him into a World War II celebrity, died on Saturday in Long Beach, Calif. He was 83. The cause was complications f
 BROILES--Melvyn. The Juilliard School is deeply saddened by the death of Melvyn Broiles, who was a member of the trumpet faculty from 1971 to the present. With dedication and great professionalism, he was an important performer and teacher for generations of brass players. We express our co
 KATZ--Howard. On August 26, 2003. Age 81. In Boca Raton, FL. Cherished husband of Gilda for 56 years. Adored father of Alan (Randi), Stuart (Carmen) and Jonathan (Robin). Beloved grandfather of Andrea, Sandra, Danielle, Derek, Stefanie, Pamela. Dear brother of Ira and Arlene. Patriarch and 
 McCORMACK--Robert. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus Robert McCormack. A graduate of the Columbia Business School, he was a respected colleague whose leadership as a Trustee was marked by exce
 ORGEL--Sidney A., Ph.D. The New York State Psychological Association is deeply saddened by the death of a respected friend and accomplished professional, Past President Sidney A. Orgel, Ph.D. We extend our condolences to his wife June, his children David, Carol and Seth, and his grandchildr
 WORTMAN--Jeffrey D.L., 57, dealer in prints and drawings, Died on August 23 in New York City. He is survived by his parents, Dr. Harry and Marilyn Wortman, and brother, Stephen. Plans for a memorial service will be announced. In lieu of flowers, donations to the John C. Glover Swimming Fund
 ZIMMERMAN--John O, former President of GMAC and Chief Executor of GMAC in the early 1970's, died on August 27th in Stonington, CT where he made his home. He was 94. Mr. Zimmerman joined the General Motors financial staff shortly after his graduation from Dartmouth College Amos Tuck School o
 BURACK--Robert. 1903 to 1980. Child of old Boston. Remembered on his centennial. His love and laughter live on.       
 George S. Leisure Jr., who from 1957 to 1993 was a partner in the law firm of Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine in Manhattan, died on Monday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 78 and lived on Sea Island, Ga. He died of complications after a heart attack in a Jacksonville hospital, his fam
 Jean-Selim Kanaan, a United Nations staff member with both French and Egyptian citizenship, died in the bomb attack on the organization's Baghdad headquarters on Aug. 19, the United Nations announced on Tuesday. He was 33. Mr. Kanaan was working directly for Nadia Younes, chief of s
 John Shearman, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who advised on the restoration of Michelangelo's frescoes in the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican, died on Aug. 11 while on vacation near Lethbridge, Alberta. He was 72. He had a heart attack, his wife, Kathryn Bush, said. D
 BERTOCCHI--Baldo V., M.D. Lutheran HealthCare mourns the loss of Dr. Baldo W. Bertocchi who was affiliated with Lutheran Medical Center for more than 50 years, first as a resident, then as a highly respected attending physician in obstetrics and gynecology. We offer our heartfelt condolence
 BURKE--Patrick. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Patrick Burke associated with The Times from August 1, 1971 until his retirement on January 6, 1997.       
 ESPOSITO--Salvatore, J., Jr. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Staff of The American Parkinson's Disease Association, Inc. mourn the loss of our past President and member of our founding family, who dedicated his life to finding the cure and easing the burden of those afflicted with Parki
 FAIRCHILD--Julian Douglas, on August 26, 2003, at age 87, of Locust Valley, New York died in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida. Survived by his wife Alison Brewster Fairchild and sons John D. Fairchild and Peter L. Fairchild, and six grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Friday, Septem
 GINSBURG--Arnold. On August 27th, 2003. Age 85. Most beloved husband and life partner of Esther. Loving and devoted father of Howard (Sherry), Benjamin, Stephen (Jeri) and Kenneth (Ruth). Cherished grandfather of Scott, David, Bradley, Chad, Courtney, Kimberly. Dearest brother of Irma, Ever
 GROSSBERG -- Jerry. We mourn the loss of our good friend, Jerry Grossberg. He fought a long battle in and out of hospitals, making a friend of every doctor and nurse he met. That's the kind of guy he was, a gentle, lovable soul, respected and loved by all who knew him. His wife Ellen was wi
 HALLIDAY -- Ernest M. Known to his friends as Hal. Died August 1, at home in Manhattan, at age 89. Editor of American Heritage Magazine for many years. Author of ''Understanding Thomas Jefferson'' and ''John Berryman and the Thirties'' and ''The Ignorant Armies''. Hal was one of the first i
 KATZ--Howard. On August 26, 2003. Age 81. In Boca Raton, FL. Cherished husband of Gilda for 56 years. Adored father of Alan (Randi), Stuart (Carmen) and Jonathan (Robin). Beloved grandfather of Andrea, Sandra, Danielle, Stefanie, Pamela and Derek. Dear brother of Ira and Arlene. Patriarch a
 McCORMACK--Robert. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus Robert McCormack. A graduate of the Columbia Business School, he was a respected colleague whose leadership as a Trustee was marked by exce
 SIEGEL--Stephen M. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Stephen M. Siegel, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Eve and family its deepest sympathy. Brian J. Strum, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secy       
 WOOD--Paul W. The officers, board and congregation of Temple Emanuel mourn the passing of Paul W. Wood and extend heartfelt condolences to Jacqueline Wood and her family. Paul's artistry and insight into the deeper meaning of Jewish symbols are concretized in the magnificent stained glass w
 Pierre Poujade, a French shopkeeper whose antigovernment protest movement in the 1950's opened a political career for the rightist leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, died on Wednesday at his home in La Bastide-l'Évêque, in southwest France. He was 82. His movement, which became known as Po
 Jack P. Eisner, who used the millions he made in the import-export business to tell the story of how he survived the Holocaust in a book, play, movie and many public appearances, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was colon ca
 ESPOSITO--Salvatore, J., Jr. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Staff of The American Parkinson's Disease Association, Inc. mourn the loss of our past President and member of our founding family, who dedicated his life to finding the cure and easing the burden of those afflicted with Parki
 GRAY--Robert. August 29, 2003. Beloved husband of Nicki Gray. Loving father of Lee, Cathy and Jodi. Cherished grandfather of Andrea, Corey, Dean and Kimberlee. A kind and generous man who thought of the needs of others and will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Graveside servi
 JAKOVICH--Michael Steven, 43, of Boca Raton. Loving husband of Elena; father to Nathan, Stefen and Alex; brother to Robert; son to Elaine Brooks, and mourned by former wife, Jody, and all those students whose lives he touched and changed forever. He trusted and believed in everyone. Princip
 KATZ--Howard. On August 26, 2003. Age 81. In Boca Raton, FL. Cherished husband of Gilda for 56 years. Adored father of Alan (Randi), Stuart (Carmen) and Jonathan (Robin). Beloved grandfather of Andrea, Sandra, Danielle, Stefanie, Pamela and Derek. Dear brother of Ira and Arlene. Patriarch a
 McCORMACK--Robert. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus Robert McCormack. A graduate of the Columbia Business School, he was a respected colleague whose leadership as a Trustee was marked by exce
 RUBIN--Florence. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Florence Rubin, beloved mother of David Rubin. We extend our deepest condolences to David and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 SCIAKY--Isaac. On August 29th, 2003. Beloved father of Daniela Sciaky and Reed Corderman. Loving grandfather of David and Sara Corderman. Partner of Arlene Dubrow. Service Sunday, August 31st, 2003 at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. SCIAKY--Isaac. Congregation Shearith
 STEVENS--Melvin. Beloved husband of Debby for 52 years, died August 28 of lung cancer. He was an active outdoorsman sharing his love for fishing, sailing, skiing and tennis, as well as fine food, jazz and theater with family and friends. He began his career with Macy's as a CPA and rose to 
 William Scherle, who represented southwest Iowa for four terms in Congress, died on Wednesday in Council Bluffs. He was 80. Mr. Scherle, a Republican, was first elected to Congress in 1966. Before that, he served in the Iowa Legislature. An obituary in The Omaha World-Herald
 Charles W. J. Scaife, a chemistry professor who took everyday props like Alka Seltzer and balloons and roamed the nation's classrooms to promote the initially bizarre notion that science is fun, died last Sunday at his home in Schenectady, N.Y. He was 65. The cause was liver cancer,
 Frank MacDonald, Australia's oldest World War I veteran and its last surviving serviceman to have been cited for bravery in that war, died on Aug. 23 in Burnie, Tasmania. He was 107. Australia had been a commonwealth for just over a decade when it entered World War I, but its people
 EISNER--Jack P. November 15, 1925-August 24, 2003. Born in Warsaw, Poland. Died in New York City. Cherished husband of Sara. Devoted father of Lee, Philip and Arnold. Beloved and respected grandfather of Alexandra and Lauren. A charismatic, inspirational and innovative leader of the Holocau
 GERSTEIN -- Leonard B. Passed away August 25, 2003. Of Boca Raton, formerly of Merrick, Long Island. Loving husband of Esther to whom he was married for 57 years. Adored father of Laurie (Scott) Milim and Lee (Joy Covey) Gerstein. Cherished grandfather of Alicia, Evan, Isaac and Leila. Belo
 GRAY--Robert. August 29, 2003. Beloved husband of Nicki Gray. Loving father of Lee, Cathy and Jodi. Cherished grandfather of Andrea, Corey, Dean and Kimberlee. A kind and generous man who thought of the needs of others and will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Graveside servi
 HOLMES--Neal H. Of Pittsburgh, PA., on Wednesday August 27, 2003. Mr. Holmes was co-founder of Allied Security Inc. where he served as C.E.O. and Chairman of the Board. He also served as Chairman of the Board for the Allegheny County Port Authority and a Board member of the University of Pi
 KATZ--Howard. On August 26, 2003. Age 81. In Boca Raton, FL. Cherished husband of Gilda for 56 years. Adored father of Alan (Randi), Stuart (Carmen) and Jonathan (Robin). Beloved grandfather of Andrea, Sandra, Danielle, Stefanie, Pamela and Derek. Dear brother of Ira and Arlene. Patriarch a
 LEE--Yaw Shuin. Former Visiting Distinguished Professor of Structural Design at the School of Architecture, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, New York and former associate at Severud Associates Consulting Engineers in New York, died on August 27th 2003 in Washington, D.C. He was 87. He retired fro
 LEVINE--Rose. The Columbia University Medical Center faculty, alumni, and staff mourn the loss of Mrs. Rose Levine, a valued friend of Columbia. We extend our sincere condolences to her family, who are kind and generous benefactors of the Health Sciences Campus: son Hirschell Levine, esteem
 McCORMACK--Robert. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus Robert McCormack. A graduate of the Columbia Business School, he was a respected colleague whose leadership as a Trustee was marked by exce
 McDERMOTT--Doris C. August 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Richard G. McDermott. Loving step-mother of Richard G. McDermott Jr. and his wife Laura, Peter P. McDermott II and his wife Charlotte, and Denice McDermott Lynch. Cherished grandmother of Richard G. McDermott III, Tracy Miller, L
 MORRIS--Richard. He was widely admired in the small world of alternative presses and daring websites. A witty poet, Richard was the publisher of Camels Coming Press and the Executive Director of COSMEP. Beginning in 1979, he became widely known as the author of a series of science books. Hi
 RIGHTER -- Volney Foster (Turk). On August 27, 2003, at age 100, of Bedford Hills and Fishers Island, NY. A founding partner of Harrington, Righter and Parsons. They were the first company to specialize in representing television stations nationally to the advertising industry. Mr. Righter 
 SILBERMAN--J. Donald, 73. Geologist of Scarsdale, NY and Dallas, TX, died August 28, 2003, attended by his loving family in Falmouth, MA. SILBERMAN--Sidney J. Died peacefully at home on August 29. Devoted husband of the late Marjorie. Loving companion of Helene Fagin. Beloved father
