 John Harry Niemeyer, president emeritus of the Bank Street College of Education in Manhattan, died on April 19 in the Florida Keys. He was 95 and had moved there from Greenwich Village four years ago. His death was announced by his family. During his presidency, from 1956 to
 Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, an urbane tobacco man who in the face of rising health concerns about smoking led a relatively lackluster cigarette company called Philip Morris through Marlboro Country to become one of the largest corporations in America and the maker of the best-selling product in 
 John D. Hess, a prolific writer who originated one of the earliest television soap operas, ''Love of Life,'' died April 15 at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, said his brother, Carl B. Hess. Mr. Hess was the originator of ''Love of Life.'' ''Se
 Dr. Clayton S. White, a medical researcher who studied the effects of nuclear blasts on people, died on April 26 in Albuquerque at the Lovelace Medical Center, which he helped establish in 1947. He was 91. His death was reported by his daughter Meredith. Dr. White, known as 
 Dr. Arthur J. Naparstek, an expert on urban redevelopment whose ideas for rebuilding Cleveland's impoverished neighborhoods became the model for a federal program, died April 24 at University Hospitals of Cleveland. He was 65. The cause was complications from lung cancer, said his s
 Gaetano Badalamenti, the Sicilian crime boss who was convicted in an epic Mafia trial in the 1980's of being the ringleader of a sophisticated operation that smuggled heroin and cocaine into the United States, has died, a Justice Department spokesman said. He was 80, according to the Federa
 Harold H. Harmatz, who owned Ratner's, the Lower East Side kosher dairy restaurant, and who, in the 1960's, helped lead the successful fight against Robert Moses' plan to built an expressway across Lower Manhattan, died last Tuesday at an assisted-care home in Melville, N.Y. He was 91.     
 Aleksandr Y. Bovin, one of the most colorful and daring commentators of the late Soviet period and for more than five years Russia's ambassador to Israel, died during the night of April 27-28. He was 73. His wife said the cause of death was a long-standing vascular problem. 
 Andrew Robert Buxton Cavendish, the 11th Duke of Devonshire, who maintained his family's historically grand way of life by selling art masterpieces and converting his Chatsworth estate into one of Britain's most visited attractions, died Monday night at Chatsworth. He was 84. His de
 Homer Avila, a dancer and choreographer who went on to a new career in dance after the amputation of his cancerous right leg and hip, died on April 27 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 48. The cause was the spread of cancer to his lungs, said Ivan Sygoda, a colleague and friend. 
 Coxsone Dodd, the record producer and entrepreneur who helped invent the Jamaican music industry, died on Tuesday night at his studio in Kingston. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Carol Dodd. Mr. Dodd was best known as the force behind Studio One, a
 Darrell Johnson, who managed the Boston Red Sox to the brink of the 1975 World Series championship in a dramatic seven-game duel with the Cincinnati Reds, died on Monday at his home in Fairfield, Calif. He was 76. The cause was leukemia, his daughter Denise Johnson said. The
 Frederick R. Karl, a literary critic and author of books on the lives and works of Joseph Conrad and other literary figures, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was kidney disease, his family said. Though his scholarly work covere
 Dr. Ray W. Gifford Jr., an expert on hypertension who carried out some of the early research on treatments for the disease, died Tuesday at his home in Fountain Hill, Ariz. He was 80. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, where he spent most 
 Leland King, an architect who, as a State Department official, commissioned some of the most distinguished buildings representing the United States overseas, died here on April 20. His death was announced by his family. He was 96 and lived in Bodega Bay. In her 1998 book ''T
 John L. Dowling, once a leading commercial real estate broker in New York and around the country who represented a roster of blue-chip corporations, died on Tuesday at his home in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 66 and also had a home in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack brought on b
 The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, who presided over one of the nation's most high-profile collegiate athletic programs for more than three decades as a senior official at the University of Notre Dame, died on Sunday at the campus in South Bend, Ind. He was 87. His death was announced by Not
 Barney Kessel, a guitarist who was both a celebrated jazz soloist and a ubiquitous but anonymous studio musician, died on Thursday at his home in San Diego. He was 80. The cause was brain cancer, said his wife, Phyllis. Mr. Kessel had been inactive since a stroke in 1992, and he lea
 David S. Sheridan, an inventor whose decision to give up the flooring business and turn his attention to designing a better catheter has been credited with helping save many lives, died on April 29 at his home in Argyle, N.Y., his family said. He was 95. Catheters help rid the body 
 Lee Loevinger, a tough and exacting chief of the Justice Department's antitrust division under President John F. Kennedy and later a member of the Federal Communications Commission, died on April 26 at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 91. The cause was complications of
 Tage Frid, a native of Denmark who helped revive the art of handmade furniture in the United States, beginning in the late 1940's, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Newport, R.I. He was 88 and lived in Middletown, R.I. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his 
 Joe Kennedy Jr., a classically trained violinist who performed with many jazz greats, including his cousin Benny Carter, died on April 17 in Richmond, Va. He was 80. The death was reported by Mr. Kennedy's wife, Jennifer. Mr. Kennedy, who became one of the first African-Amer
 Alan King, the stand-up comedian who parlayed a borscht-belt sense of humor, a tummler's cheek and a big appetite for the limelight into a thoroughgoing show business career that lasted more than half a century, died Sunday morning at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He 
 Fred Karlin, a prolific composer of film and television soundtracks who won both an Academy Award and an Emmy Award, died on March 26 in Culver City, Calif., where he lived. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said Pat Connolly, a family friend. Mr. Karlin wrote music for more 
 John J. Dios, who was regarded as New Jersey's first Hispanic judge, died on April 21 at his home in Bradley Beach, N.J. He was 80. The cause was stomach cancer, said his wife, Marcela. Judge Dios was appointed to the Municipal Court in Newark at a time of rising Hispanic ac
 Robert E. Fulton Jr., an adventurous inventor whose more than 70 patents included a car that could fly and a rescue system for spies behind enemy lines that was used by the C.I.A. and a James Bond movie, died on Friday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 95. His death was announced
 Phil Gersh, the last of the Hollywood agents who dominated the talent business in the 1940's and 50's and represented some of the great stars and filmmakers of Hollywood's golden age, died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, his family announced. He was 92. Mr. Gersh was one of 
 Jean-Jacques Laffont, an economist known for developing mathematical models to estimate what something is worth in situations of deep uncertainty, died on May 1 in Toulouse, France. He was 57. The cause was cancer, said Jean Tirole, his colleague at the University of Toulouse.      
 Nelson Gidding, a Hollywood screenwriter who worked on classics like the Susan Hayward prison drama ''I Want to Live!,'' died on May 2 at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Giddi
 John D. LaPorta, a classically trained clarinetist who performed with the stars of early modern jazz before beginning a long teaching and composing career, died here on Wednesday, his family announced. He was 84. Mr. LaPorta played and recorded with many prominent jazz musicians, in
 LeRoy Myers, a dancer who was one of the last of the Copasetics veteran tap ensemble, died on April 26 in Manhattan, members of the troupe said. He was 84. Born in North Philadelphia, Mr. Myers began his professional career as a child, singing with Kiddies' Hour, a black amateur rad
 Stanley Harris Feldberg, a prominent discount retailer who helped build the Zayre chain, forerunner of the TJX Companies, which owns the T. J. Maxx and Marshalls stores, died on April 24 in Charleston, S.C. He was 79 and lived in Hilton Head, S.C., where he moved from Wellesley, Mass., abou
 Col. Robert Morgan, who piloted a B-17 bomber that soared into history and Hollywood movies as an icon of World War II, died Saturday night in Asheville, N.C., after breaking his neck in a fall, said his wife, Linda. He was 85 and lived in Asheville. For six months over battle-torn 
 Jack Holland, a Belfast-born author and an authority on Irish culture and the sectarian strife in Northern Ireland, died on Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. He was 56 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. The cause was lymphatic cancer, said his daughter, Jenny. 
 Syd Hoff, a prolific children's book author, illustrator and cartoonist for The New Yorker who was best known for ''Danny and the Dinosaur,'' an enduring best seller for beginning readers, died on Wednesday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 91. His death was announced by Josette Ku
 Elvin Jones, whose explosive drumming powered the John Coltrane Quartet, the most influential and controversial jazz ensemble of the 1960's, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Nagasaki, Japan. Mr. Jones's death, which came after several months of faili
 Henry J. Everett, a New York investment manager, supporter of many Jewish, educational and cultural institutions and namesake of the acclaimed Everett Children's Adventure Garden in the Bronx, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived on the 
 Philip Zaro, a co-founder of the bakery chain that provides countless commuters with bagels and muffins at Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station, died on Friday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was a stroke, but he had suffered from congestive heart failu
 Tony Randall, the sardonic actor with the commanding voice and precise diction whose career in light-comic parts in Hollywood and on the New York stage seemed the perfect preparation for his signature role as the fussbudget Felix Unger in the classic television series ''The Odd Couple,'' di
 Arnold O. Beckman, a chemist whose invention in 1934 of a device to measure the sourness of lemons led to a lucrative career developing accurate and easy-to-use scientific instruments, died Tuesday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 104 and lived in Newport Beach, Calif. Dr. Beckman
 Julian J. Aberbach, who owned the publishing rights to Elvis Presley's music and set up a music publishing system that revolutionized the rock and country music industries, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Southampton, N.Y. The cause was he
 William Joseph Brennan III, an influential New Jersey lawyer who was a senior partner in a Princeton firm and a former president of the New Jersey State Bar Association, died on Monday at Princeton Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Princeton. The cause was cancer, his family said.   
 James A. Krumhansl, a physicist and administrator at Cornell University who raised an early voice against a federal research project that would have created the nation's largest particle accelerator, the supercollider, died on May 6 at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He 
 Melvin J. Lasky, the editor of two major intellectual journals and a man at the vortex of the debates and controversies thrown up by the cold war, died Wednesday at his home in Berlin. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, Marc Svetov, his secretary, said. Probably no pers
 Samuel Iwry, an expert on Hebrew who helped prove the antiquity of the Dead Sea Scrolls, died in Baltimore on May 8, Johns Hopkins University announced. He was 93. A professor emeritus at Johns Hopkins, Dr. Iwry (pronounced EVE-ree) was a graduate student at the university when the 
 William H. Hinton, whose accounts of Chinese village life helped shape America's understanding of Mao Zedong's revolution, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Concord, Mass., where he had been living for several years. He was 85. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his 
 Dr. Evon Z. Vogt Jr., an anthropologist whose extensive fieldwork in southern Mexico helped advance the understanding of modern Maya culture, died on May 13 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. The cause was complications from pulmonary fibrosis, said his son Eric. Dr. Vogt, a lea
 Fred Asher Mayer, a tour and cruise executive who ran some of the earliest and most star-studded theme cruises, died on May 8 at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Bedford, N.Y., and Miami. The cause was post-surgery complications, his family said.  
 Mortimer D. Turner, a prominent polar geologist who helped open the Antarctic frontier to geological exploration, died May 1 in Boulder, Colo. He was 83. The cause was a seizure, said his wife, JoAnne Church Turner. In 1959, Dr. Turner joined the National Science Foundation 
 Gill Fox, a jack-of-all-trades cartoonist who collaborated with the first generation of comic-book creators on innovative characters including Plastic Man and the Spirit, died on May 15 in Redding Ridge, Conn., his daughter Donna Morency said. He was 88. As an editor, artist and wri
 Dr. Jacob A. Arlow, a former president of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute whose work helped form the core of modern analytic thinking, died on Friday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 91. The cause was prostate cancer, said his son Seth. Dr. Arlow, who practiced u
 Dr. Paul F. Wehrle, a pediatrician and researcher who helped diagnose and devise treatments for polio, smallpox and other infectious diseases, died May 11 in San Clemente, Calif. He was 82. The cause was complications following a long illness, said a son, Dr. Malcolm Wehrle of La Ca
 Percy M. Young, a leading British musicologist, died on May 9 in York, England, The Independent of London reported. He was 91. A prolific scholar, Mr. Young wrote and edited more than 50 books, including studies of Elgar, Handel, Vaughan Williams and the Bach family. He also created
 Samuel Curtis Johnson, an innovator who for decades served as the head of S. C. Johnson, one of the most successful family businesses in the country, died on Saturday in Racine, Wis., where he lived. He was 76. The cause was stomach cancer, said a spokeswoman for the company.       
 Bernard Lefkowitz, a journalist, author and teacher who used storytelling to illuminate complex social issues, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was cancer of the thymus gland, said his wife, Rebecca Aikman. Mr. Lefko
 Carlos Orta, a longtime leading dancer and teacher with the José Limón Dance Company and a choreographer, died suddenly on May 15 outside the Limón studios on Broadway and Houston Street in Manhattan. Mr. Orta was 60 and lived in Manhattan. He is believed to have had a heart atta
 Walter Beinecke Jr., who combined good business with historic preservation on the island of Nantucket by investing in the saving and enhancing of the traditional architecture of its old whaling port, died on Sunday at the Nantucket home of his daughter Ann Oliver. He was 86. The cau
 Alex Woodley, who coached and mentored many Olympic gold-medal sprinters in the 1960's and 1970's as head of the Philadelphia Pioneer Club, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Jean, said. Woodley's athletes who won
 Henry Ries, a Berlin-born photographer who fled Hitler and returned to take evocative pictures of postwar Germany, most memorably his images of the Berlin airlift in 1948 and 1949, died on Monday at his home in Ghent, N.Y. He was 86. Wanda Ries, his wife and only immediate survivor,
 Joel Dean, half of the team that created Dean & DeLuca, a store that redefined the fancy food market and edited America's pantry, died on Monday evening at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was a staph infection that he had been battling for sever
 David Dellinger, whose commitment to nonviolent direct action against the federal government placed him at the forefront of American radical pacifism in the 20th century and led, most famously, to a courtroom in Chicago where he became a leading defendant in the raucous political conspiracy
 Roger W. Straus Jr., the brash and opinionated grandee who presided for nearly six decades over the book-publishing company that bore his name, the last surviving representative of the age of independent houses owned privately by gentlemen of literary taste, died Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospi
 Carl Allen, who raised, raced and trained world champions in harness racing and whose horses earned almost $15 million, died Monday after a tractor accident at his Marion County farm. He was 74. A sheriff's office report said that Jason McInturf, a relative of Allen's, said that All
 Prentice H. Marshall, who as an activist federal judge in Chicago presided over cases that changed the makeup of the Chicago police force and sent the head of the Teamsters union to prison, died on Monday in Ponce Inlet, Fla., where he had lived for 14 years. He was 77. The cause wa
 Ronald J. Prokopy, a scientist whose research on fruit flies in apple orchards led to environmental pest-control programs using fewer pesticides, died on May 14 in Franklin Medical Center in Greenfield, Mass. He was 68. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, said his wife, Linda L. P
 Umberto Agnelli, who stepped into the limelight at Fiat, the Italian auto empire, after a lifetime in the shadow of relatives renowned for their flamboyance, died late Thursday in the family's villa, La Mandria, outside Turin. He was 69. The cause was lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph
 Archibald Cox, the special Watergate prosecutor who was fired by the Nixon White House in the ''Saturday Night Massacre'' in 1973, died yesterday at his home in Brooksville, Maine. He was 92 and died of natural causes, his wife, Phyllis, said. Mr. Cox, a former solicitor gen
 Edward Wagenknecht, a biographer, critic and editor, died on Monday in St. Albans, Vt., where he lived, his son Walter said. He was 104. A prolific writer, Mr. Wagenknecht produced some 70 books, including studies of Dickens, Milton, Mark Twain, Henry James and Shakespeare; a histor
 Samuel Dash, a champion of legal ethics who became nationally known during the Watergate scandal as the Senate's methodical chief counsel, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 79. Mr. Dash, a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center for almost 40 years, died at the Wa
 Archibald Cox, the special Watergate prosecutor who was fired by the Nixon White House in the ''Saturday Night Massacre'' in 1973, died Saturday at his home in Brooksville, Me. He was 92 and died of natural causes, said his wife, Phyllis. Mr. Cox took over the Watergate inve
 Ned Schnurman, an Emmy-winning producer who was a pioneer in the presentation of news media criticism on television, died on May 20 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 78. The cause was complications after hip-replacement surgery, said a friend, Kathleen Landis. Mr. Schnurm
 Samuel Dash, a champion of legal ethics who became nationally known during the Watergate scandal as the Senate's methodical chief counsel, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 79. Mr. Dash, a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center for almost 40 years, died at the Wa
 Simon Nathan, a photographer and writer whose ''Simon Sez'' columns in popular photography magazines kept professionals and hobbyists up to date with the innovations of camera makers after World War II, died on May 19 in the Bronx. He was 82. A longtime Manhattan resident, he died i
