 David Bale, a businessman, environmentalist and animal rights activist, died on Tuesday in Santa Monica, Calif., his wife, the feminist author Gloria Steinem, said. He was 62. Ms. Steinem said the cause was primary brain lymphoma, for which Mr. Bale had been hospitalized since July.
 John Gregory Dunne, the brashly insightful novelist, journalist, and screenwriter who wrote novels and successful works of nonfiction crammed with pungent dialogue, lavish brutality and vivid glimpses of the Hollywood demimonde, died on Tuesday evening in his Manhattan apartment. He was 71.
 BECKER--Scott. On December 30, 2003. He was the beloved husband of Margaret and the devoted father of Michael. Graveside service 10:30 AM at the Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY on January 2, 2004.       
 BUDASOFF--Dr. Israel, 82, on December 26, 2003. Widower of Josephine. Father of Pedro and Daniel. Brother of Eva. Born in Argentina, he was a physician for many years. Memorials to charity of one's choice.       
 COTTON--Robert Henry, 89; December 19, 2003, Fort Myers, FL. Beloved family man, mentor and friend; food industry innovator; artist in glass and in life. Survived by his wife Cis, whom he married 56 years ago today; daughter Dorothy Kirkwood of FL; Leonard W. and Thomas C. of CT; eight gran
 DWORMAN -- Menachem. With deep sorrow we note the passing on December 28, 2003 at age 73 of our dear friend Menachem Emanuel (Manny) Dworman, owner of the Olive Tree, Comedy Cellar and proprietor of the Cafe Feenjon, the legendary Near Eastern Club-all in Greenwich Village. He too was a leg
 FRIEDMAN--Lee. A great friend, a unique spirit, an inspiration. My heartfelt condolences to his family and his family of friends. Billy Bragman       
 GUTIERREZ -- Gerald. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened and mourn the death of our beloved colleague and esteemed Associate Director. Gerry performed theatrical miracles of direction on the Beaumont stage, most recently with his acclaimed production of ''Dinne
 HEARD--Drayton Jr., in New Haven, December 29, 2003, husband of Helen O. Heard, father of Drayton Heard III, John O. Heard and Helen H. Hetherington. He was with the Westinghouse Electric Corporation for many years. Services private.       
 PRESSMAN--William B. On December 30, 2003. He brought music into our lives throughout his 83 years. Survived by wife Marjorie, daughter Nancy (Rick) Morgenstern, daughter - in - law Wendy Brown, and Ava, Sara, Abe, and Zoe. Predeceased by his beloved son, Jack David Pressman. Services on Fr
 SHANKMAN -- Steven. Be loved son of Marion (Mickey) and Al, devoted brother of Richard and loving father of Rachel and Shelby. Died at home on December 30, 2003. His gentle kindness, integrity and humor will long be remembered and will be sorely missed. Services on January 2, 12 noon, at Gu
 Ibram Lassaw, an artist known mainly for his colorful, open-form metal sculptures and one of the last links to the original generation of the New York School artists, died on Tuesday at his home in the Springs section of East Hampton, N.Y, his family said. He was 90. Though he never
 Manny Dworman, a nightclub owner, musician and long a colorful fixture on the Greenwich Village scene, died on Sunday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Noam Dworman, his son. A mentor to comedians, Mr. Dworma
 DAVIS--Ellsworth ''Binky'', 69, of Lyme, CT, died December 28, 2003. He was born in Hartford on September 4, 1934. A memorial service will be held at 1 PM, Saturday, January 3, at St. Ann's Episcopal Church, Old Lyme, CT. with a reception at 3:30 PM at the Graduate Club, 155 Elm Street, New
 DeWITT--Donald. On December 30, 2003 in Los Angeles. For 55 years, devoted husband of Marian (Bloomgarden) DeWitt. Loving father of Didi and David Barrett, Jimmy and Lynne DeWitt, Danny and Boo DeWitt, and Michael DeWitt. Adoring grandfather of Andrew, Maddie, Katie, Alec, Liza and Annabel.
 GUTIERREZ -- Gerald. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened and mourn the death of our beloved colleague and esteemed Associate Director. Gerry performed theatrical miracles of direction on the Beaumont stage, most recently with his acclaimed production of ''Dinne
 KNETZGER--Edwin L. Jr. ''Biggie''. December 27, 2003, of Bryn Mawr, PA. Beloved husband of Leonette Johnson Knetzger. Devoted father of Louise K. (Dan) Gallagher Edwin L. III, Hugh C. and Ginny (Jimmy) Unger. Also survived by 13 grandchildren. Funeral mass Saturday, January 3, 11am St. Just
 LANDERS--Manfred, 99, formerly of Easthampton, NY on Tuesday, December 23, 2003 at his home in Ridgefield, CT. Mr. Landers is survived by two sons, Eric Landers of New Canaan, CT and Jon Landers of Newtown, CT along with four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the Kane Funera
 LILLYS--Edmund C. Died peacefully on December 30, 2003 following complications from a blood clot. Beloved husband of Iris, he also leaves a sister, nephews and cousins. Born in 1908, of Greek parents in Istanbul, Turkey, he came to the United States at an early age, soon entering the the hi
 MURRAY--A. Brean, 66, of heart failure on December 25, 2003. Resident of New York City, Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY and Sun Valley, ID. He is survived by his wife of 23 years, Bettina Patterson Murray, sons Christopher and Stephen Murray of Portland, OR, stepdaughter Renee Sands Tobin of New Yor
 PLASKETT--Joseph Sr. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, entrepreneur, and owner of Hairstyling by Joseph, died on Sunday, December 28, 2003. Services will be held in his honor on Sunday, January 4, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 ROSCOE--Jerome Verity. On December 25, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Roscoe and devoted father of Nancy Lutz of Wayne, PA, Cindy Roscoe of Alexandria, VA and Alison Ashman of Fairfield, CT. He is also survived by five grandchildren, four great-grandchildren and a sister, Caroly
 SHANKMAN -- Steven. Be loved son of Marion (Mickey) and Al, devoted brother of Richard and loving father of Rachel and Shelby. Died at home on December 30, 2003. His gentle kindness, integrity and humor will long be remembered and will be sorely missed. Services on January 2, 12 noon, at Gu
 TELL--Lawrence J. Beloved husband of Meredith Kane, adored father of Zeke and Alex, devoted brother of Eileen and son of late Ralph and Ruth. His sweetness of character, quirky humor, generosity of spirit and deep devotion to family and dear friends will warm our hearts forever. Services Mo
 THURNAUER--Warren, Sr, 82, of Manchester, died December 28. He is survived by son Beau (Joyce), daughter Frost Krist (Joseph) and brother Hugh. A Memorial Service will be held January 6 at 11:00 AM in St. Mary's Episcopal Church, Manchester. Burial will be private.       
 PELLMAN--Edwin. Dear EP ''. . . and he said, 'Miss Pipperidge, if you'll be mine, I'll be yours for the rest of my life'.'' Always, MS       
 Reginald Harold Jones, who guided General Electric in the 1970's through a phase of managerial changes and shifting focus toward new materials like plastics, died Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his family reported. He was 86. Born in Britain and raised in the Unite
 HEINE--Fr. Simeon, S.A. (Albert F, Jr), Franciscan Friar of the Atonement, in NYC on January 1, 2004. He was 88 years old. Fr. Simeon was a former Vocation Director and Development Director for the Friars at Graymoor. He also did pastoral ministry in Japan, Canada, and Texas. He was a chapl
 PLASKETT--Joseph Sr., 81, beloved husband, father, grandfather, entrepreneur, and owner of Hairstyling by Joseph, died on Sunday, December 28, 2003. Services will be held in his honor on Sunday, January 4, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 SCHWARTZ -- Jeffrey. A gentle soul--Beloved husband, devoted father and my favorite golf partner for over 30 years. As competitive as we were on the course, no memories burn stronger than the laughter and joy we shared from the first hole through the last. Jeffrey was taken from us far too 
 SHANKMAN--Steven, 45. Beloved son of Marion (Mickey) and Al, devoted brother of Richard and loving father of Rachel and Shelby. Died at home on December 30, 2003. His gentle kindness, integrity and humor will long be remembered and will be sorely missed. Services on January 2, 12 noon, at G
 TELL--Lawrence J. Beloved husband of Meredith Kane, adored father of Zeke and Alex, devoted brother of Eileen and son of late Ralph and Ruth. His sweetness of character, quirky humor, generosity of spirit and deep devotion to family and dear friends will warm our hearts forever. Services Mo
 YAHR--Dr. Melvin D. Dr. C. Warren Olanow and the Department of Neurology of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague, Dr. Melvin D. Yahr. Dr. Yahr graduated from the NYU College of Medicine in 1943. After completing a residency in Neurol
 Vincent Smith, an artist whose work depicted the rhythms and intricacies of black life in diverse styles, from a hard-edged, socially conscious expressionism to riots of dazzling colors and patterns, died last Saturday in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was ly
 Nicola Paone, whose dialect-inflected songs about the joys, sorrows and insecurities of Italian immigrants sold millions of records and made him ''the Italian Bing Crosby,'' died on Dec. 25 in Albuquerque, said Lawrence Auriana, his friend and longtime neighbor in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 88.
 ADLER--Seymour. Born December 17, 1919, in New York. Passed away peacefully December 31, 2003, at his home in Los Angeles surrounded by his family. He is survived byhis wife of 42 years, Ioe, children Lelah and John, and grandchildren Isabel, Benjamin and Norah. Raised in Brooklyn, and grad
 BODKIN--Robert A. Age 86, of Oak Bluffs, MA, died Tuesday, December 30, 2003. Beloved husband of Cornelia E. (Watson) Bodkin. He was the former Headmaster of the Maplewood School in Cornwall, CT. Memorial service Saturday, January 10, 11 AM, St. Andrew's Church, Edgartown, MA. Memorial dona
 BRAUN--Melvin. On January 1, 2004. Mel, you were not just my big brother, you were my best friend. You were a special brother-in-law to Judy and the best uncle to Ned, Richard, Nancy and Amy and their children Liz, Andi, Andrew and Michael. Your marriage to Bobbie for 53 years was a model f
 CAREY--James J., 62, of Princeton, NJ, died January 1, 2004 at his residence surrounded by his family. Senior Vice President of Citigroup where he worked for 43 years. Survived by his wife Jacqueline, mother Wilma, sister Linda, daughter Heather, step-daughter Christine and husband David, s
 CHANDOR--E. Haring. 82, died December 22, 2003, in NYC. He was the son of the late Reginald M. and Mary Mulford Chandor. He was a direct descendant of Pieter Haring of Hoorn, North Holland, who arrived in Nieuw Amsterdam in 1638, aboard his family's ship, the Haring, and who built the pre-R
 DE PINIES--Jaime, on December 29, in Madrid. Beloved husband of the late Luz Bianchi. Devoted, loving father of Pablo and Jaime and daughter-in-law Maria. Loving grandfather of Jaime, Javier and Luis. In our hearts forever. Funeral Mass in Madrid at San Francisco de Borja on January 7th at 
 DeWITT--Donald. On December 30, 2003 in Los Angeles. For 55 years, devoted husband of Marian (Bloomgarden) DeWitt. Loving father of Didi and David Barrett, Jimmy and Lynne DeWitt, Danny and Boo DeWitt, and Michael DeWitt. Adoring grandfather of Andrew, Maddie, Katie, Alec, Liza and Annabel.
 FALENCKI--John Julius. December 30, 2003. Husband of Maureen. Father of Emily, Jonah and Andrew. Son of the late Wladeck and Karin. Our John, a true healer, he loved people, nature and all of life. We miss him so. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st Street, Sunda
 GILMAN--Beryl. On December 30, 2003. Husband of the late Bluma Cohen Gilman. Survived by his loving family; Amy Gilman and Walter Srebnick, Joshua and Amy Sagan Srebnick, Daniel Antonio Srebnick and Sara Bernbach, great-grandson Jake Henry Srebnick, and brothers Harry and Leo Gilman and the
 HARRIS--Chauncy Dennison. On December 26, 2003. The American Geographical Society celebrates the extraordinary life of Chauncy Harris and mourns his passing. In addition to his invaluable leadership in the larger comunity of geographical scholarship worldwide, Chauncy served as a Councilor 
 JENKS--Richard Dimick. 66, died on December 30, 2003 at a nursing home in Rye Brook of complications from multiple system atrophy. He is survived by a son, Douglas, and his wife, Patricia, of Hopewell Junction; a son, Daniel, and his wife, Mercedes, of Anaheim, CA; and a daughter, Susan, of
 KLAR--Henry A., 87, of Tamarac, FL, passed away peacefully on December 29, 2003, with his family at his bedside. A Master Sergeant in WWII, this prominent New York real estate lawyer started a new home brokerage business called Klar Realty in 1947. He became a suburban growth pioneer by ini
 LA SALA--Frank. Of Osprey, FL, formerly of Yonkers, NY. Died on January 2, 2004. He was 97 years old. Mr. La Sala and his brothers began the La Sala Contracting Co., Inc. in 1937. La Sala Contracting became one of the largest masonary contracting companies in NYC. Frank, together with his b
 LAUFER--John P. It is with sadness that the Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York mourn the passing of our great member, John Laufer, ABO's 2000 Associate of the Year. As we start this New Year, we will all feel the void from John's loss. He was truly a gentleman and an all aro
 LEEDS--Richard. The Board and staff of Lenox Hill Neighborhood House mourn the loss of Dick Leeds, a longtime and well-loved Board member. Our deepest sympathies to his family.       
 LEFFERTS--Leffert. Beloved husband, father and grandfather died December 25, 2003 after a long battle with cancer at the age of 65 in Upperville, VA. He was a devoted and faithful man and will be deeply missed by his family and many friends. Mr. Lefferts is survived by his wife, Bee, three 
 LEVIN--Samuel Benedict. It is with the deepest grief that David and Roger Levin announce the death of their father, Benedict Levin on December 31, 2003 at the age of 93. Dr. Levin was Deputy Secretary in the Department of Defense, directing defenserelated basic research, principally in comm
 LONGCOPE -- Duncan, 83, died December 23, 2003, in Boston, MA. An avid reader, a writer and talented artist, he graduated from Milton Academy, 1937 and Harvard College, 1941. During WWII he served in the U.S. Army with the 5th Air Force. After the War, he joined the staff of the New Yorker.
 LOWENSTEIN--Norman. On December 30, 2003, of Boca Raton, FL. Died tragically in a plane crash. He was an avid pilot who generously donated his plane and time to fly ''Angel Flights'' to take patients and their families to hospitals for treatment. An able aerial gunner in WWII, enlisted at t
 MINTZER -- Max, D.D.S. March 18, 1906--December 26, 2003. Vice President and Board member of the Ohab Zedek Synagogue, Belle Harbor, N.Y. Practiced dentistry in Brooklyn for more than 50 years. Fund raiser for New York and Florida Jewish causes. Survived by son Howard and his wife Carol, da
 MURRAY--A. Brean, 66, of heart failure on December 25, 2003. Resident of New York City, Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY and Sun Valley, ID. He is survived by his wife of 23 years, Bettina Patterson Murray, sons Christopher and Stephen Murray of Portland, OR, stepdaughter Renee Sands Tobin of New Yor
 NACHEMAN--Abe. Husband of the late Lillian, died January 1, in Lauderhill, Florida, formerly lived in Brookville, New York. He was brother, brother-in-law and the loving Uncle Abe to 16 loving nieces and nephews. Interment is private, Sunday, January 4.       
 PALLADINO--Joe, 64, died in New York on December 27, 2003. He will be deeply missed by his friends and his loving family in Troy, NY.       
 PLASKETT--Joseph Sr., 81, beloved husband, father, grandfather, entrepreneur, and owner of Hairstyling by Joseph, died on Sunday, December 28, 2003. Services will be held in his honor on Sunday, January 4, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 POLSTEIN--Joseph Nathan. Age 90, of East Rockaway, NY, after a short illness. Preceded into rest by his beloved Dorothy (Barst). Survived by his sister Ruth Sirota of Jerusalem, son Ernest Polstein, daughter Meri Grumbacher, daughter - and son - in - law Kate Sharp and John Grumbacher, trea
 RABKIN--Sol, 92, December 24, 2003. Back to his beloved garden. Attorney, fierce defender of civil rights. Nancy and Len's adored father. Frieda's husband. Devoted friends and family: Luigi, Amelia, Laura Bonomini; Giacomo, Paola Ghillani; Earl, Dot Williams; Joanna, Seweryn Tomaszek; Edith
 REISS--Howard. President of Reiss Marketing of New Port Richey, FL, died Tuesday, December 23, 2003, in Florida. He is survived by his wife Dorothy Hubner Reiss, son Kenneth Reiss and daughter Sandra Reiss, all of New Port Richey, FL, and five grandchildren. Memorial services will be held a
 RUDOW--Gilbert. On January 3. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Dear father of Peter (Elyse), Amy Miller (Richard), and the late Joel (Susan). Devoted grandfather to Brian, Chelsea and Samantha Miller. To know him was to love him.       
 SASSO--Thomas Edward. We mourn the untimely death of Tommy Sasso, loving best friend to all. Thomas Edward Sasso, 51, of Ridgewood, New Jersey, died on January 1, 2004, in Westchester, New York, of injuries sustained in an automobile accident on the afternoon of Monday, December 29. He is s
 SHANKMAN--Steven, 45. Beloved son of Marion (Mickey) and Al, devoted brother of Richard and loving father of Rachel and Shelby. Died at home on December 30, 2003. His gentle kindness, integrity and humor will long be remembered and will be sorely missed. Services on January 2, 12 noon, at G
 SOLINGER--Julius. 89, of Scarsdale, NY, passed away on January 2, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife Nina, his daughter Sue, his son Matthew, four grandchildren and one great-grandson. Private service.       
 TELL--Lawrence J. Beloved husband of Meredith Kane, adored father of Zeke and Alex, devoted brother of Eileen and son of late Ralph and Ruth. His sweetness of character, quirky humor, generosity of spirit and deep devotion to family and dear friends will warm our hearts forever. Services Mo
 YAHR--Dr. Melvin David. Age 86, died January 1, 2004. World renowned and revered neurologist, researcher and mentor to generations of physicians. Predeceased by his adored wife, Felice. Beloved brother of Minna. Loving father of Carol, Nina, Laura and Barbara. Father-in-law of Eric, Tony an
 Steven H. Bazerman, a lawyer who handled cases that expanded intellectual property law to cover not just the names of products but the way they look and feel, died Dec. 19 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was complications of kidney failure, his wife, Beverl
 James Counsilman, perhaps the most innovative coach in United States swimming history, died yesterday at a nursing home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 83. He had Parkinson's disease, his son, Brian, said. Counsilman, known as Doc, was a molder of champions, an inventor, a consu
 Michael Straight, the patrician former magazine publisher who described in a political memoir his lingering involvement with Soviet spies whom he had first met when they were all students at Cambridge University, died yesterday at home in Chicago. He was 87 and also had a home on Martha's V
 DE PINIES--Jaime, on December 29, in Madrid. Beloved husband of the late Luz Bianchi. Devoted, loving father of Pablo and Jaime and daughter-in-law Maria. Loving grandfather of Jaime, Javier and Luis. In our hearts forever. Funeral Mass in Madrid at San Francisco de Borja on January 7th at 
 DURGIN--Don. Died December 26, 2003, at Lenox Hill Hospital, at age 79, from an aneurism. Beloved husband of Catherine Meacham Durgin. Father of William Ryerson Durgin II of Manhattan, and Hillary Durgin Harmon of Houston, TX. Grandfather of Murphey, Cornelius Kelley, Samuel and Therese Har
 FALENCKI -- John Julius. Friends and colleagues of John Julius Falencki mourn the untimely death of our beloved ''Janic'' in the water off West Palm Beach, FL. We express our sympathy to his mother Karen, his wife Maureen and his children Emily, Jonah and Andy. John was a pioneer--one of th
 KAUFMAN--Joseph I. Age 78, died Sunday, January 4, 2004, at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, New Brunswick. Born and raised in Brooklyn, NY. Mr. Kaufman lived in Goshen, NY, for eight years before moving to Marlboro, NJ, three years ago. Mr. Kaufman was a veteran of the Army in Worl
 KLAR--Henry. The Brooklyn Law School community mourns the loss of Henry Klar, Class of 1938, an esteemed and devoted alumnus of the Law School, whose generous support helped establish the Klar Family Reading Lounge. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Gloria, his son, Steven, also
 MULHALL--James J. On January 4, 2004. Served in Europe in WWII as an Army Artillery Officer with the 45th Division. Worked for the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company in the Corporate Headquarters in NYC. Survived by his beloved wife Rita (Sahre), his children: J. Brian Mulhall, Marianne
 PARKER--Gerald Scott, 87, on January 3, 2004, in Exeter, NH. Beloved husband of Alice (nee Carroll) and father of Katharine, Alison, and Caroline. Proud veteran of WWII. Born in Staten Island, he was a graduate of Williams College and a Vice President of the Guardian Life Insurance Company 
 POPPER--William I. On December 27, in Santa Barbara, California, at the age of 86. Devoted husband to Maggie, beloved father of Marjorie and Michael, and caring grandfather of Ben, Naomi, Lydia and Adrian. Bill was an active attorney with his own practice for over 50 years. Military service
 REMLER--Samuel. 88, on December 29, 2003. Survived by beloved wife Annette; children Neal, Dianne, Maxine Kwatinetz; grandchildren Jeffrey, Andrew, Glenn. Greatgrandchildren Emily, Sarah, Zachery, Jacob. Adored brother of Mildred Baum and Norman. His devoted family will miss his love always
 ROSS--Marvin A. died peacefully on January 4th after a short illness. Beloved husband of Eleanor, cherished father of Leslie Ross and Alison Ross Nelson, adored ''Pop Pop'' of Morgan Ross McCord, Spencer Thomas McCord, Scott Lane Shannon, Avery Brooke Shannon and Logan Freer Grant. Loving u
 SHANKMAN -- Steven. We mourn the passing of our beloved president, longtime member of the corporation and our Board of Directors. His kind and gentle ways and impeccable foresight and leadership will be our guideposts for years to come. The Board of Directors and Corporate Officers of Peerl
 TELL--Lawrence. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP express profound sorrow at the death of Lawrence Tell on December 31st. We express our deepest sympathies to his wife, our friend and partner, Meredith Kane and their children, Ale
 YAHR--Dr. Melvin D. We mourn the death of our teacher, mentor and dear friend. His work on levodopa therapy revolutionized the treatment of Parkinson's disease and changed the life of millions of patients worldwide, initiating a new era of movement disorder re search. He was an early and st
 AYERS--William Rufus. Age 78, of New York City, died December 15, 2003. He leaves behind his devoted partner of 14 years, Ralph Valente, his loving sister, Betty Mae Remsberg of Roanoke, VA., two nephews, William Callaway of Marietta, GA., Calvin Remsberg of Los Angeles, CA., and a niece Be
 BODKIN--Robert A. Age 86, of Oak Bluffs, MA, died Tuesday, December 30, 2003. Beloved husband of Cornelia E. (Watson) Bodkin. He was the former Headmaster of the Marvelwood School in Cornwall, CT. Memorial service Saturday, January 10, 11 AM, St. Andrew's Church, Edgartown, MA. Memorial don
 CLARK--Joseph T., 93, a resident of Poughkeepsie, NY, died New Year's Day 2004 in New York City after a brief illness. The family is deeply saddened and mourns his passing. Mr. Clark Was Production Manager at IBM, Poughkeepsie; IBM Plant Manager at Science Research Associates in Chicago and
 GOMORI--Erno. On January 4, 2004. Beloved husband of Klara. Cherished father of Juli and Marc Leber. Adored grandfather of Adam Leber. Inseperable brother of Alex. Beloved uncle of Tomi and George. Graveside service on Tuesday, January 6, 2004 at 11AM at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, N
 GUTIERREZ -- Gerald. The Juilliard School mourns the death of distinguished alumnus Gerald Gutierrez. As a member of Julliard's first drama class, he exemplified The School's highest standards. He will be deeply missed. Joseph W. Polisi, President Michael Kahn, Richard Rodgers Director of T
 HELLER--Charles. We are devastated by the loss of our brother and friend. Our hearts are broken for his wife Gail, his children Alexandra, Ross, Zoe, Jennifer & Jessica & Jim. We miss him and he will be in our hearts forever. Roberta and Ricky Brudner HELLER--Charles. The Robindel f
 KADUSHIN--Phineas. Age 78. Died January 1, 2004 in Fort Lauderdale, FL., where he lived with his loving daughter, Janine. Also surviving are his other children with his late wife Susan, Tamar and Michael, and his brother Charles. A graduate of the Jewish Theological Seminary, he served as a
 KLAR--Henry. The Meltzer family deeply regrets the passing of a dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Gloria, his sons Steven, Ronald and Lester, as well as the rest of his family. He was a wonderful and loving husband and father. A man of great distinction and inte
 KOBRE--Theodore A., 73, of White Plains, NY, on January 4th, 2004 after a serious illness. He was loved by many and will be missed by all. Services private. KOBRE--Theodore A. The Board of Directors and Members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our
 LOVE--Freeman D. The Trustees, faculty, students and staff of Poly Prep Country Day School mourn the passing of Freeman D. Love, beloved alumnus, class of 1933, and Trustee Emeritus. Throughout his life, he embodied the essential spirit of Poly--where character supersedes all else. We are d
 MARTIN--Lee G. On January 4, 2004, at age eighty-six after 25 years illness, bravely borne. Husband of Georgina Green Martin. Father of Eleanor Hoagland, Curtiss, Martha Kate, and Mary Archer Martin. Father-in-law of Leigh Hoagland, and Virginia Drewry. Grandfather of Nicholas and Georgina 
 MURRAY--A. Brean, 66. The Board of Trustees of the John Jay College Foundation, Inc., mourns the loss of our dear fellow Trustee, Brean Murray. Brean's sudden demise leaves us shocked, uncomprehending, and deeply saddened. Brean generously and enthusiastically supported John Jay College thr
 O'SULLIVAN--Kevin Barry. Age 46, of E. Norwalk, CT, died January 4, 2004. Beloved brother of Meg Johnson of Glen Rock, NJ. Loving son of the late Michael and Joan (nee Murphy) O'Sullivan. Adoring uncle of Ian, Jacqueline and Jillian Johnson and devoted cousin of Heather Hughes of Bellevue, 
 PAZNIK--Michael. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member Michael Paznik and extends heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Rita and family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Linda Altman, President Rabbi Charles A. Klein       
 POPPER--William I. On December 27, in Santa Barbara, California, at the age of 86. Devoted husband to Maggie, beloved father of Marjorie and Michael, and caring grandfather of Ben, Naomi, Lydia and Adrian. Bill was an active attorney with his own practice for over 50 years. Military service
 ROCCHIO--Joseph P. Jr., M.D. Of New York City, January 2, 2004. Beloved son of Mildred and the late Joseph P. Rocchio Sr.; dear brother of Lemoyne (P. Richard Jr.) Rhoades; devoted uncle of P. Richard (Deborah) Rhoades III and Kristen E. (Matthew) Webb; survived by countless friends and pat
 ROSS--Marvin A. died peacefully on January 4th after a short illness. Beloved husband of Eleanor, cherished father of Leslie Ross and Alison Ross Nelson, adored ''Pop Pop'' of Morgan Ross McCord, Spencer Thomas McCord, Scott Lane Shannon, Avery Brooke Shannon and Logan Freer Grant. Loving u
 YAHR--Melvin D. We mourn the passing of Dr. Melvin D. Yahr, personal friend and devoted leader of research and patient care for people affected by Parkinson's disease. Among his numerous contributions, Dr. Yahr was the first Scientific Director of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation. He led 
 Paul Hopkins, who became a celebrity of sorts in his final years for having given up Babe Ruth's record-tying 59th home run in 1927 while making his pitching debut for the Washington Senators, died last Friday at a hospital in Middletown, Conn. Hopkins, who lived in Deep River, Conn., was 9
 Samuel M. Nabrit, a scientist and scholar who was the second president of Texas Southern University in Houston, serving from 1955 to 1966, died on Dec. 30 in Atlanta. He was 98. Dr. Nabrit had a heart attack while at home recuperating from pneumonia and died at Emory Crawford Long H
 Takashi Ishihara, who marshaled the fierceness of a rugby player and the precision of an accountant to lead the Nissan Motor Company to global prominence, died on Dec. 28 at a Tokyo hospital. He was 91. The announcement of his death came in a statement by his son Yoshiharu that was 
 Tug McGraw, the colorful left-handed relief pitcher who helped the Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies capture World Series championships, died yesterday in the Nashville area. He was 59. The cause was brain cancer, said Larry Shenk, a spokesman for the Phillies. McGraw had s
 Francesco Scavullo, the ubiquitous photographer whose images glamorized the famous and the fashionable for more than 50 years in private portraits and dazzling magazine covers, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was not immediately known, said his agent, M
 John Toland, a best-selling historian whose book ''The Rising Sun: The Decline and Fall of the Japanese Empire, 1936-1945'' won the 1971 Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction, died on Sunday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 91 and lived in Danbury. The cause was pneumonia, said hi
 ETHRIDGE--James Murdock III. Age 83. Died peacefully at home after a lengthly illness on January 5, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife Ann, his children James M. Ethridge IV, Judy Goodale, Brooke Cort and step-daughter Sybil Hajek, six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. He gra
 FAHERTY--George E. Adelphi University mourns the passing of former athletic director and basketball coach, George E. Faherty. The recent recipient of Adelphi's President's Award of Merit, he served Adelphi with distinction from 1951-1966, elevating the caliber of the athletic program and ea
 GORDON -- Bennett. The Board of Trustees and staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Bennett Gordon, dear father to Trustee Jim Gordon. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Mary, his sons Jim and John, and the entire Gordon 
 GUEITS--David. Age 30. We are devastated by the tragic untimely death of our wonderful friend, Dave, struck down by a car in Puerto Rico on January 1, 2004. David, son of Edward and Olivia, brother to Gary, Edward and Michelle Gueits, will always be remembered for his warm, wonderful and gi
 HELLER--Charles. We are devastated by the loss of our brother and friend. Our hearts are broken for his wife Gail, his children Alexandra, Ross, Zoe, Jennifer & Jessica & Jim. We miss him and he will be in our hearts forever. Roberta and Ricky Brudner       
 JOHNSON--C. Bedford. Of Hanover, NH, passed December 6, 2003 at age 83, leaving sons Douglas, Scott and Blair Johnson and three granddaughters Claire, Camille and Sara. He was predeceased by his wife, Sally Barber Johnson. Born in Amarillo, Texas, he attended Harvard College on a full schol
 KOBRE--Theodore A., 73, of White Plains, NY, on January 4th, 2004 after a serious illness. He was loved by many and will be missed by all. Services private. KOBRE--Theodore A. We are saddened by the loss of our dear cousin, and loving, caring friend. Our memories are many, and we wi
 LEIGHT--Donald, on January 3rd. A trumpet player's trumpet player. A sweet, gentle man, who blessed us with his sense of humor and sense of swing. A loyal friend to many, and a beloved father to Jody & Warren. Memorial service to be held in February.       
 LOWENSTEIN -- Norman. Died tragically December 30, 2003 in a plane crash. His beloved daughters, Bonnie Rudin and Judith Feder, will be sitting shiva at the home of Bonnie Rudin, Wednesday & Thursday, January 7-8, after 5PM. Dad, you were our hero in life as you were in death.       
 MARTIN--Lee G. On January 4, 2004, at age eighty-six after 25 years illness, bravely borne. Husband of Georgina Green Martin. Father of Eleanor Hoagland, Curtiss, Martha Kate, and Mary Archer Martin. Father-in-law of Leigh Hoagland, and Virginia Drewry. Grandfather of Nicholas and Georgina 
 McCAULEY--William P. Died December 30, 2003. He was 63 years old. He worked in the Advertising Department at the Wall Street Journal. Surviving are a sister, Patricia McCauley Ekeland, a brother Thomas McCauley, many nieces and nephews. Inquiries Cobble Hill Chapels, 171 Court St., Bklyn, N
 MOUNTY--Bernard. Passed away suddenly on January 5, 2004. Beloved husband of Jeannette for 49 years. Loving father to Alan and Joel. Adored Pop Pop to Alyssa and Meredith. Dear brother to Shirley Mounty and cherished friend to Lauren Mounty and Aideen and Madison Cooperman. Funeral to be he
 MURRAY--A. Brean, 66. The Board of Trustees of the John Jay College Foundation, Inc., mourns the loss of our dear fellow Trustee, Brean Murray. Brean's sudden demise leaves us shocked, uncomprehending, and deeply saddened. Brean generously and enthusiastically supported John Jay College thr
 ROCCHIO--Joseph P. Jr., M.D. Of New York City, January 2, 2004. Beloved son of Mildred and the late Joseph P. Rocchio Sr.; dear brother of Lemoyne (P. Richard Jr.) Rhoades; devoted uncle of P. Richard (Deborah) Rhoades III and Kristen E. (Matthew) Webb; survived by countless friends and pat
 SCAROLA--William, 73, on January 4, 2004. Devoted husband of Virginia and the center of our family universe. Willy is remembered and honored by his wife, children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, sisters, nephews, nieces and friends. You will live forever in our hearts. Your loving fami
 SHALOM--Victor, on January 6, 2004. Beloved husband of Doris. Devoted father of Val Dwek and Gene Margolin, Sheldon and Debbie Shalom and Jocelyne Shalom. Cherished grandfather of Nevil Dwek, Alicia and Harry Nasser and Victor and Dara Shalom and great grandfather of Daniela and Vanessa. Lo
 SIDMAN--David, of White Plains. Died January 6, 2004 at age 88. Survived by sons Andrew (wife Debra) and Mark (wife Pat) and grandchildren Amanda, Meredith, Alexander and Margot. Predeceased by his wife Rita (nee Spiegel) Sidman. Information: Zion Memorial Chapel 914-381-1809       
 von ARTENS -- Peter (1937-2003). The staff at Wally Findlay Galleries deeply mourns the death of their dear friend and esteemed artist on December 31, 2003. Peter's extraordinary ability to create a masterpiece of realism awarded him recognition in global art circles. His recently published
 YAHR--Melvin D., M.D. I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Dr. Melvin D. Yahr. He was one of the greatest neurologists of our time, an inspiring teacher, mentor and friend. Andreas Plaitakis, M.D., Ph.D., Dept of Neurology, University of Crete, Greece       
 IRVING--Michael Henry. January 7, 2003 in his 80th year. A life force. A gentle man. A loving husband and friend. He took the light with him. Always in my heart. Patricia       
 Danny Whelan, the trainer for the Knicks' two National Basketball Association championship teams and for the Pittsburgh Pirates' 1960 World Series champions, died last Friday at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan, a day before his 85th birthday. Whelan had been in failing heal
 Joseph Church, a child psychologist whose groundbreaking books in the 1950's and 1960's shattered conventional notions on the ways young children mature and acquire language, died on Dec. 23 in New York, said his son, Joseph. He was 85. Dr. Church was widely known in his field for t
 ALTSCHUL--Roslyn, at the age of 88. Beloved wife of the late Jerome. Daughter of the late Rae and Samuel Waldbaum. Loving mother of Helene Reisler, Jim Altchul and his wife, Sue. Cherished grandmother of Jerome, David, Julie and Emily. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlet
 CARTY--Thomas F. on January 6, 2004 at the age of 85. Dear son of the late Thomas and Elizabeth (nee Finnegan). Brother of Joseph and the late Margaret C. Brock. Also survived by his cousins, nieces and nephews. A veteran of W.W. II, and past commander of the American Legion. President and 
 ETHRIDGE--James Murdock III. Age 83. Died peacefully at home after a lengthly illness on January 5, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife Ann, his children James M. Ethridge IV, Judy Goodale, Brooke Cort and step-daughter Sybil Hajek, six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. He gra
 GUEITS--David. Age 30. We are devastated by the tragic untimely death of our wonderful friend, Dave, struck down by a car in Puerto Rico on January 1, 2004. David, son of Edward and Olivia, brother to Gary, Edward and Michelle Gueits, will always be remembered for his warm, wonderful and gi
 KOBRE--Theodore. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished friend and advisor. We shall miss his intelligence, guidance and counsel. We will always remember a man who was dedicated to his profession. Our deepest sympathy goes to his family. Charles B. Benenson Bruce W. 
 LIEBERMAN -- Elwyn. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow Member Elwyn Lieberman. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, to his children and other members of his family. Paul J. Konigsberg President       
 MARTIN--Lee G. On January 4, 2004, at age eighty-six after 25 years illness, bravely borne. Husband of Georgina Green Martin. Father of Eleanor Hoagland, Curtiss, Martha Kate, and Mary Archer Martin. Father-in-law of Leigh Hoagland, and Virginia Drewry. Grandfather of Nicholas and Georgina 
 MILGROM--Rabbi Louis. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who served at The University of Minnesota for 27 years after which he became the Chair of Jewish Studies at The University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire. We extend our deepest condolence
 MITCHELL--Jordan, 91, of Fairfax, VA on January 5, 2004. Born in New York City, son of the late Robert and Sophia Mitchell. He is survived by his wife, Sylvia (Konowitz) Mitchell of Fairfax, VA, his son, Charles Mitchell and his wife Sandra, of Burke, VA, his daughter, Emily Thacker and her
 MURRAY--A. Brean, 66. The Board of Trustees of the John Jay College Foundation, Inc., mourns the loss of our dear fellow Trustee, Brean Murray. Brean's sudden demise leaves us shocked, uncomprehending, and deeply saddened. Brean generously and enthusiastically supported John Jay College thr
 NAGLER--Simon H., M.D., died on January 7, in New York. Born in November, 1910, he is survived by his devoted wife of 64 years, Thelma, two loving children, Harris and Lauren, his daughterin-law Freema, and two granddaughters Arielle and Gabrielle. Services will be held Friday, January 9, a
 REHMAR--Michael Isadore, M.D., Col., USAF Retired, died at home on January 6th. Dr. Rehmar was born in Cleveland, Ohio, May 21, 1925. He graduated Glenville High School with honors and was selected for the V-12 Naval Officer-Training Program at Williams College during WW II, graduating Phi 
 SCAROLA--William, 73, on January 4, 2004. Devoted husband of Virginia and the center of our family universe. Willy is remembered and honored by his wife, children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, sisters, nephews, nieces and friends. You will live forever in our hearts. Your loving fami
 SIDMAN--David. ARMDI-American Red Magen David for Israel records with deep sorrow the loss of its beloved past National Director. For 20 years he served with dedication and devotion to the organization and Israel. He will always be remembered for assuming the responsibility for organizing a
 WANDERER--Kenneth Herbert. Died on January 6, 2004, age 80. Survived by his wife Joan; father to Kathryn, Thomas, Diane and Elaine; grandfather to Cynthia, Kyra, Christopher, Emily, Meghan, Miriam, Gregory, Alexander, Sara and Benjamin; great grandfather to Gabrielle. Ken Wanderer was an in
 WOODD - CAHUSAC -- Sydney A. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend Sydney A. Woodd - Cahusac, former treasurer and counsel, and a dedicated member of The Rockefeller University Council. He fostered generous support for a great many University endeavors, par
 YAHR--Dr. Melvin. On 1st January, 2004. He founded the World Federation of Neurology Research Group dedicated to Parkinsonism and Related Disorders. The first meeting was in 1959. Dr. Yahr chaired the Research Group until its 14th International Congress in 2001. The congresses grew from 50 
 ZALAZNICK--Edward Phillip. Perished in a plane crash on January 2 along with his beloved wife Isabelle Fouchard and three adored sons, David (12), Paul (9), Thomas (TT) (6). In addition, six members of the Fouchard family also died. Ed was a graduate of Scarsdale, NY High School, Tufts Univ
 ZELTNER--Harold, 93, formerly of New York City, on January 6, 2004. For many years he was NY district sales manager for Metro-GoldwynMayer. He is survived by his sons, Ted Zeltner, M.D., of Albany, NY, and Craig of Wayne, NJ; sisters, Hortense Paster of Maryland, and Francis Hammer of Penns
 Patrick Miller, a musician who led the experimental 1980's rock group Minimal Man, died on Dec. 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 51. The cause is not yet known, said his brother, Jan, who said that an autopsy had been performed but that the results were not yet available. His b
 Brian Gibson, the British film and television director known for his inspiring early collaborations with the writer Dennis Potter and for an eclectic array of projects ranging from Hollywood studio films to television documentaries, died on Sunday in London, said Ann Louise Bardach, a famil
 Dr. Melvin D. Yahr, whose groundbreaking study of the amino acid L-dopa in the late 1960's helped establish it as a leading treatment for Parkinson's disease, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 86. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter Carol Yahr. Dr
 COOK--W. Russell. October 3, 1960-January 5, 2004. We can truly say we knew a Hero...a man whose courage and will to live enlightened and humbled us. His integrity captivated us and showed us how to stand proud. His generosity embraced us. His kindness and warmth drew us close to him and ga
 DROWNE--H. Russell IV. On December 15, 2003. Survived by his wife Laura, sons Chris, Scott and Matt and brother Michael. Mr. Drowne was a six term Deputy Mayor, Trustee of the Village of Upper Nyack, 27 year employee of NYNEX, and a graduate of The Hill School and Syracuse University.      
 GREEN--Morris, Ph.D., M.D., of Montclair, NJ. Loving husband to Rose; beloved father to Zachary and Gabriella; loving brother to Yetta and Joseph Zeiger, Seymour and Lillian Green, Clara and Oscar London; adored uncle. A gifted teacher and healer, Morris Green brought love to all his person
 KOBRE--Theodore A. The Oberman Companies mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend Ted Kobre. Ted's unwavering dedication to the insurance profession and his focus on protecting the interests of his clients above all others is an inspiration to us all. He will be deeply missed. Ou
 LEITMAN--Harold N., 85, died January 8, 2004. Dearest husband of Joyce Leitman, and the late Shirley Leitman. The most loving father and stepfather to Valerie and Daniel, Thea, Sukie, Harry and John; father-in-law of Jack, Gail, Steve, Amy and Carol. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Andrew
 LITTMAN--Elliot. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 MALINOVICH--Stanley. Retired professor of philosophy at Brooklyn College, passed away suddenly and peacefully on January 7 after battling with early onset Parkinson's Disease for thirty years. Like a true philosopher, his values shaped his life. He handled his disabilities with great courag
 MORAN--John Patrick. 76, died Wednesday January 7 at a local hospital in Charleston, SC. He was a member of the US Navy serving during WWII. He was a graduate of Long Island University and served honorably, loyally and efficiently as a member of the New York Police Department for 38 years r
 NAGLER--Simon H., M.D., died on January 7, in New York. Born in November, 1910, he is survived by his devoted wife of 64 years, Thelma, two loving children, Harris and Lauren, his daughterin-law Freema, and two granddaughters Arielle and Gabrielle. Services will be held Friday, January 9, a
 NORTON--William F., Jr., died on January 6th at the Schervier Nursing Care Center in Riverdale, NY. He was 90. A former FBI agent, Mr. Norton was in charge of the investigation that culminated in the execution of atom bomb spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. He resigned from the FBI in 1953 t
 REHMAR--Michael I. The New York County Medical Society mourns the passing of Dr. Michael Rehmar, longtime member of its Board of Directors, chair of numerous committees and delegate to the Medical Society of the State of New York. Our sympathies to his wife and family. Clarita Herrera, M.D.
 STEWART -- Dr. Nathaniel. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member Dr. Nathaniel Stewart, and extends heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Amelia and family. We pray that they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Linda Altman, President Rabbi Cha
 Steven Dorfman, who for nearly two decades wrote questions -- that is, answers -- for the television game show ''Jeopardy!,'' died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 48. The cause was complications of colon cancer, his father, Neil, said. A devotee of game shows si
 Jess, an artist whose idiosyncratic paintings and collages made him a cult figure in American art, died on Jan. 2 at his home in San Francisco, said Odyssia Skouras, his dealer in New York. He was 80. Jess, who dropped his last name, Collins, in the late 1940's when he broke from hi
 John A. Gambling, a popular morning radio personality in New York who for 31 years was the host of ''Rambling With Gambling'' on WOR, offering a low-key version of the news and a folksy banter to go with cornflakes and the drive to work, died on Thursday night at Bon Secours Hospital in Ven
 ALTSCHUL--Roslyn, at the age of 88. Beloved wife of the late Jerome. Daughter of the late Rae and Samuel Waldbaum. Loving mother of Helene Reisler, Jim Altschul and his wife, Sue. Cherished grandmother of Jerome, David, Julie and Emily. Services were held at ''BoulevardRiverside,'' 1450 Bro
 BACHENHEIMER--Harold H. Passed peacefully in his sleep on January 8, 2004. Survived by his wife Anne, son Steven (Elaine), brother and sister, Micha (Miriam) and Lee (Alfred). Grandchildren Staci (David) and Jill (Ken) and great grandchildren Daniel, Casey, Matthew and Connor. Throughout hi
 BETTRIDGE--William B. The Dalton School community mourns the loss of William Bettridge, father of Shannon and Thomas, and husband of Susan Thomases. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire family. BETTRIDGE--William. The Dalton School PTA notes with great sadness the passing of
 CARTY--Thomas F. on January 6, 2004 at the age of 85. Dear brother to Joseph and the best friend he ever had. Thomas was a proud W.W. II veteran, attorney, businessman, real estate investor, contractor and past city councilman in Westchester. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday 9:45 AM at St.
 KARGER--John S., 95, passed away peacefully on January 8 at RiverMead in Peterborough, NH, formerly of New York City, White Plains and Greenwich, CT. Beloved husband of Mimi for 23 years, and of the late Ellie for 45 years. Devoted father of the late Ann and of Tom and his wife Mary Jane, a
 LASALA--Anthony of Pelham Manor died January 9, 2004. He was 96. Husband of the late Eleanor Poletti LaSala. Father of Lenora Vinci and Kenneth A. LaSala. Brother of A. Stephen LaSala and the late Frank and Andrew LaSala, May Devirgilis and Louise Buonagurio. Grandfather of Audra McGuire, M
 MORAN--John Patrick. 76, died Wednesday January 7 at a local hospital in Charleston, SC. He was a member of the US Navy serving during WWII. He was a graduate of Long Island University and served honorably, loyally and efficiently as a member of the New York Police Department for 38 years r
 PINIES--Jaime de. The officers, members of the Board of Directors and staff of Queen Sofia Spanish Institute mourn the death of our dear friend and Gold Medal Awardee, Ambassador Jaime de Pinies, who died in Madrid on December 29. Our deepest condolences to his brother and sister-in-law, Fe
 PRYSTOWSKY--Rose, M.D. The Department of Pathology at Jacobi Medical Center and North Central Bronx Hospital is profoundly saddened by the death of Rose Prystowsky, M.D., mother of Dr. Michael Prystowsky the Academic Chairman of our Department at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Our
 ROSENTHAL--George, 85, on January 8, 2004. Beloved and adoring husband of the late Udith Rosenthal. Devoted and loving father of Nina, Robert, and Peter, and cherished father-in-law of Jed, Jodi, and Lori. Proud grandfather of Julie, Jennifer, Lindsay, Gregory, Kara and Jamie. Dearest broth
 TWERSKY--David. On January 8, 2004. Beloved father of Jack and Naomi Twersky and Gail and Joseph Reimer. A Holocaust survivor, he leaves a wonderful legacy of grandchildren and great grandchildren for whom his life has been a blessing.       
 WALDMAN--Edwin, 89, on January 9th, 2004. Loving husband of Sylvia for 63 years. Devoted father of Robert and Ernest and father-in-law of Jennifer Dolan-Waldman and Alice Engel. Adoring grandfather of Joshua, Jack, Kate and Glenn. A retired salesman of women's sportswear, his true vocation 
 Charles A. Lewis, a horticulturist whose fascination with the soothing effects of plants on people led him to hospitals, jails and community gardens to study the deep and enduring roots of their benefits for human lives, died on Dec. 19 in Albuquerque. He was 79. The cause was acute
 Jake Hess, a pioneering Southern gospel singer and four-time Grammy winner who was a major early influence on Elvis Presley, died last Sunday at a hospital in Opelika, Ala., family members told The Associated Press. He was 76. He had had a heart attack on Dec. 16. Mr. Hess w
 BERGER -- Seymour. Died January 9th at age 80. Dearly beloved husband, soulmate and friend, at my side and in my heart and mind for twenty-five years. I mourn your death deeply. Jan BERGER--Seymour. On January 9, 2004. Adored husband of Jan, beloved brother and pal of Marilyn and Do
 BROWN--Arnold Armistead. January 29, 1927 to January 5, 2004, after a brave battle with cancer. Beloved father, he leaves a daughter Melissa, a son and daughter-in-law, Thomas and Emilia, and their sons Pablo and Simon. Not least, his dear bird Billy. His passionate spirit and his love of m
 CHASE--Merrill W. The Rockefeller University Community mourns with deep sadness the loss of our distinguished collegue and beloved friend, Merrill W. Chase. Professor Chase, a valued member of the Rockefeller University research community for 71 years, was a pioneer in the study of cellular
 GAMBLING--John A. Gilda's Club Worldwide extends condolences to Board member John R. Gambling on the death of his father, John A. Gambling, a NY legend. Our thoughts are with his family at this difficult time.       
 GIGES--Gerald, MD. Died at his home on December 26, 2003 following a long illness. Much beloved and cherished by his family and held dear by his friends. He is deeply missed.       
 GOLD--Harry, M.A. Age 80, on December 25, 2003. No one who knew him remains untouched by his warmth and wisdom, his abiding humanity; none now go on from here without a hole in their lives where Harry used to be. Memorial service January 24. Call 516-922-1153.       
 JESS--Died the beginning of the year at his home in San Francisco. His friend and dealer for over 40 years, Odyssia Skouras, her family and the staff of the Odyssia Gallery mourn his passing. There will be no services at this time, however, Harry Parker, the director of the Fine Arts Museum
 KATES--David. The New York Philharmonic notes with sadness the death, on January 9th, of David Kates, 93, a violist with the Philharmonic from 1933-1976. Mr. Kates first played with the Philharmonic in 1930 at The Lewisohn Stadium Concerts, and joined the St. Louis Symphony in 1932. He was 
 LA BIANCA--Lance, of Dobbs Ferry, NY, passed away after a short illness on December 22, 2003. He was a former Vice President of the American Foreign Insurance Association. He will be deeply missed by his many associates and friends in Europe, Asia, the Near East and North America. Survived 
 LASALA--Anthony of Pelham Manor died January 9, 2004. He was 96. Husband of the late Eleanor Poletti LaSala. Father of Lenora Vinci and Kenneth A. LaSala. Brother of A. Stephen LaSala and the late Frank and Andrew LaSala, May Devirgilis and Louise Buonagurio. Grandfather of Audra McGuire, M
 READER -- Norman. The Board of Governors and Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Charles Roden, President       
 ROBERTS--Edward Paul. 52, on January 8, 2004. Peacefully after a long illness. Survived by loving parents Gloria and Leonard Roberts and sister Lynne Roberts of New York City. Edward was a graduate of Tufts University and had an MBA from York College. He was was employed by the York (PA) Co
 ROSENTHAL--Dr. Joseph M. 57, December 18th. Husband of Dorothy Known in the mental health community as an extraordinarily gifted practitioner, he integrated his experience of Tibetan Buddhism and clinical practice. Colleagues and patients are full of praise. Memorial service January 31, 1:3
 ROSENTHAL--George, 85, on January 8, 2004. Beloved and adoring husband of the late Udith Rosenthal. Devoted and loving father of Nina, Robert, and Peter, and cherished father-in-law of Jed, Jodi, and Lori. Proud grandfather of Julie, Jennifer, Lindsay, Gregory, Kara and Jamie. Dearest broth
 SHERIDAN--William J., Jr. 86, of New Canaan, CT. A retired Senior Executive for ESSO and Exxon, died of complications from a hip fracture on December 27, 2003. He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Rita, children William J. III, M.D. of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Laurie of Milton, MA. and Susa
 SIEGEL--Joseph. Of Riverdale, NY, age 98, died early Saturday morning. Beloved husband of the late Edith Joffe Siegel, he is survived by his children Mary Bleiberg and Robert Siegel; Mary's husband, Charles, and Robert's wife, Jane; his grandchildren Kathryn Bleiberg (and her husband, Gary 
 TURITZ--George W. Age 100. On Thursday, January 1, 2004 of Washington, D.C. Born November 7, 1903 in New York and married the late Lilly Lappin in 1942. A lawyer and then an administrative law judge with the National Labor Relations Board until his retirement in 1973, Judge Turitz grew up i
 ZUNZ--Sylvia. We mourn the passing of Sylvia Zunz, beloved wife of 58 years of Lyonel Zunz, esteemed and distinguished Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Community School, who has offered unmatched and dedicated leadership to New Jersey's and New York's learning disabled children for 
 Philip L. Geyelin, the Pulitzer Prize winning journalist who steered The Washington Post's editorial page against the Vietnam War, died late Friday at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Geyelin (pronounced JAY-lin
 Dr. Bela Julesz, a neuroscientist whose wide-ranging work explored the way the human brain perceives depth, texture and shape, crossing the disciplines of neural science and psychology, died on Dec. 31, according to Rutgers University, where Dr. Julesz founded and directed the Laboratory of
 Chauncy Dennison Harris, a geographer who helped to put the Soviet Union on maps when the Kremlin sought to keep it terra incognita to prying foreigners, died on Dec. 26 at his home in Chicago. He was 89. He was the Samuel N. Harper distinguished service professor of geography emeri
 Cresson Kearny, an inventor and specialist in jungle warfare who wrote a best-selling manual on surviving a nuclear attack, died on Dec. 18 in Montrose, Colo. He was 89. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his daughter Stephanie Kearny, who is writing a biography of him.  
 Jaime de Pinis, who was a member of Spain's delegation to the United Nations for 29 years and who presided over the 40th General Assembly in 1985, died on Dec. 29 in Madrid, his son Jaime Jr. said. He was 86. Mr. de Pinis was a member of the Spanish delegation in 1956 and became
 Lawrence Bogorad, a leading researcher in plant biology who was widely known for his work on the synthesis of chlorophyll and on inheritance patterns in a variety of plants, died on Dec. 28 while vacationing with his family in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. He was 82. The cause was a stro
 CALITRI--Joseph Constant. 79, formerly of New City, NY, for 28 years and Oak Ridge, NJ, now of Windham, NH, died Thursday, at Parkland Medical Center in Dairy, NH. Son of the late Antonio and Esther (Leinkram) Calitri. Grew up in Bronx section of New York City. Born in Salem, NH, on June 26
 DURGIN--Don. Died December 26, 2003, at Lenox Hill Hospital, at age 79, from an aneurism. Beloved husband of Catherine Meacham Durgin. Father of William Ryerson Durgin II of Manhattan, and Hillary Durgin Harmon of Houston, TX. Grandfather of Murphey, Cornelius Kelley, Samuel and Therese Har
 FISHER--William E. Jr. 81, retired President of Universe Tankships, Inc., and Executive Vice President of National Bulk Carriers, passed away peacefully on January 10, 2004, at his home in Syosset, NY. He was beloved husband of Sarah J. Fisher and father of Mary-Christy Fisher (Harold Koh),
 JESS--Died the beginning of the year at his home in San Francisco. His friend and dealer for over 40 years, Odyssia Skouras, her family and the staff of the Odyssia Gallery mourn his passing. There will be no services at this time, however, Harry Parker, the director of the Fine Arts Museum
 NESKI--Julian, F.A.I.A. On January 8, 2004 at age 76. Beloved husband of Barbara and loving father of Steven and Peter. Adored grandfather of Michael and Andrea. Dear brother of Lorraine Fitch and Roberta Meindl and the late Robert Skrzynecki. Memorial service Saturday, January 17th, 3 PM, 
 OLIN--Gerald. The Long Island Head Injury Association expresses deep sorrow at the passing of their beloved founding member and secretary. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Susanne and the entire family. Stuart A. Gleiber, Pres Leonard Feinstein, Vice Pres. Charles Wolf, Executive Dir.   
 PALMER--Theodore Johnson (T.J.). 86, architect, of Portland, CT, died on January 11, 2004. He was born in New York City.       
 ROBERTS--Edward Paul. 52, on January 8, 2004. Peacefully after a long illness. Survived by loving parents Gloria and Leonard Roberts and sister Lynne Roberts of New York City. Edward was a graduate of Tufts University and had an MBA from York College. He was was employed by the York (PA) Co
 Perry B. Duryea Jr., a Montauk lobsterman who became a commanding figure in New York politics during the 1960's and 1970's, ultimately losing the 1978 race for governor, died yesterday at Southampton Hospital. He was 82. His son, Perry Duryea III, said Mr. Duryea died at about 4:30 
 Philip L. Geyelin, the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who steered the Washington Post's editorial page against the Vietnam War, died late Friday at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Geyelin (pronounced JAY-lin
 Dr. Rainer Hildebrandt, a human rights activist and director of the museum near what used to be the Checkpoint Charlie crossing at the Berlin Wall, died here at his home on Friday, according to his wife, Alexandra. He was 89. Mr. Hildebrandt, a passionate anti-Communist activist aff
 Dr. Richard L. Masland, an expert on neurological disorders who spearheaded a landmark study in the 60's that tracked thousands of pregnant women to understand the causes of birth defects, died on Dec. 19 at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, said his so
 Yinka Dare, a 7-foot, 265-pound center who was the Nets' surprise first-round choice in the 1994 N.B.A. draft, then became a symbol of the franchise's misfortunes, died Friday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 32. Dare had a heart attack at his home, said his brother, Mich
 Billy Kluver, a scientist and engineer whose collaborations with artists helped give birth to the multimedia art forms of the 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Berkeley Heights, N.J. He was 76. The cause was melanoma, said his wife, Julie Martin. In 1966 Mr. Kluver teame
 BEYDA--Helen Esses. 87, died January 11. Beloved sister. Wife of Ralph Joseph Beyda, for 57 years, until his death. Mother of Joseph, David and Grace, mother-in-law of Marsha and Barouch. Grandmother of Ellen and Rachel Beyda, Jeffrey and Ralph Anteby. We will always remember your love and 
 BROWN--Fr. Arnold, O.F.M., beloved Chaplain of the Franciscan Family Circle Pilgrimages for 47 years. Died unexpectedly December 29 at St. Anthony Friary, St. Petersburg, FL. Funeral Mass celebrated on what would have been his 81st birthday, Friday January 2, 2004. Interment in Calvary Ceme
 DANNENBAUM -- Alexander W. Jr., passed on January 10, 2004, former Sr. Vice President of Westinghouse Broadcasting, was a pioneer in the early days of radio and TV. Beginning in 1956 he began his career with Philco Corp in Philadelphia and then joined Westinghouse Broadcasting Corp in New Y
 DUSTIN--Donald R., a resident of Poughkeepsie, passed away on January 9, 2004, at the age of 75. Donald was born on December 20, 1928, to Elsie and George Earl Dustin of Englewood, NJ. Donald grew up in Englewood and had an affinity for music, tennis, chemistry, herpetology and electronics.
 GAMBLING -- John. The members of The Nature Conservancy's Mashomack Preserve Board of Trustees and staff wish to express their deep sorrow at his passing, and convey our sympathies to his family and friends. As a former Trustee, he served as Chairman of the Board from 1994 to 1997. He was a
 HADIK--John Bela, age 70, after a long illness, on January 5, 2004, in Budapest, Hungary. He is mourned by his wife, Kirsten Scheuer Hadik and Maximilian; Miska and Stephanie Hadik and Dimitri; Jancsi and Myriam Hadik; Stephen Hadik; the family of his late brother, Laszlo Hadik; his aunt, C
 KAPLOW--Howard Joseph. Beloved husband of Harriet, devoted father of Bruce and his wife Susan, grandchildren Robyn and Evan, son Wesly and his wife Amy, grandchildren Seth and Ryan. Daughter Roni Puckhaber and husband Bill. Grandchildren Russell and wife Natasha and greatgrandsons Zacharya 
 KAUFFMAN--Beatrice Segal. The family of Leonard Cohen mourns the passing of his beloved sister, Beatrice Segal Kauffman, January 10, 2004.       
 LANGSTAFF--John McVickar, 71, of Morristown, NJ, on January 10, 2004. He is survived by his brother and sister-in-law, Bard and Elizabeth, sister-in-law, Linda Carrington, three nephews, William and his wife Linda, John and Henry, one niece, Elizabeth, and a grand-niece and a grand-nephew. 
 MATERA--Arthur R. Died peacefully at his home on Saturday, January 10, 2004, after a long illness. He was preceded in death by his wife Barbara. Together they founded Barbara Matera Ltd., a theatrical costume company recognized internationally for its excellence. He lived his life fully; in
 NORTON--William F., Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of William F. Norton, Jr., a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian   
 OLIN--Gerald D. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Gerald D. Olin of North Hills, NY and Longboat Key, FL, a life trustee and generous benefactor for more than three decades. A World War II Army veteran and clothing industry executive, Mr. Olin was electe
 RACUSIN--Sydney R. Attorney at law. On January 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Shirley, devoted father of Marcine and Warren. Loving grandfather of Matthew, Ilene, Rebecca, Eric and Zachary. Dear brother of the late Aaron and brother-in-law of his Shirley. Interment at Mount Zion Cemetery, Mas
 ROBERTS--Edward Paul. 52, on January 8, 2004. Peacefully after a long illness. Survived by loving parents Gloria and Leonard Roberts and sister Lynne Roberts of New York City. Edward was a graduate of Tufts University and had an MBA from York College. He was was employed by the York (PA) Co
 SAVITS--Irving A. Beloved husband of Ruth, father of Cheri, Carol, Steve and Robert; grandfather of Mark, Danny, Jenny, Andrea and Toby. A gentle and kind man passed away Sunday, January 11, 2004. He loved his wife, family, heritage and country. We should all know the love Irving and Ruth s
 SEIDEN--Harold (Hal) of New Hyde Park was born on August 1, 1920 in New York. He passed away in his sleep on January 11, 2003, having just achieved his 60th wedding anniversary to his devoted and beloved wife, Jessica Greenberg Seiden. A graduate of Brooklyn College, Hal was a well-known an
 SMITH--William. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, are deeply saddened at the passing of William Smith, beloved husband of Helen, father of Howard Smith and Andrea Rubin, father-in-law of Thelma Smith. Bill was a proud and strong man wh
 WEINGOLD--Jonathan Mark. The Board of Directors, members, staff, and participants of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children/NYC mourn the passing of Jonathan Mark Weingold, 60, on January 11, 2004. Beloved son of Joseph and Barbara Weingold, he worked at the AHRC Betty Pendler/Ne
 YELLIN--Herbert. Beloved friend, and inspired founder and Chairman Emeritus of the Old Stone House of Brooklyn. The members of the board of directors will never forget him. Died Monday, January 12, 2004. Funeral 11:30AM today, Clark Funeral Home, Yorktown Hts., N.Y. Interment immediately fo
 Perry B. Duryea, a Montauk lobsterman who became a commanding figure in New York politics during the 1960's and 1970's, ultimately losing the 1978 race for governor, died on Sunday at Southampton Hospital. He was 82. His son, Perry Duryea III, said Mr. Duryea died about 4:30 p.m. fr
 BROWN--Fr. Arnold, O.F.M., beloved Chaplain of the Franciscan Family Circle Pilgrimages for 47 years. Died unexpectedly December 29 at St. Anthony Friary, St. Petersburg, FL. Funeral Mass celebrated on what would have been his 81st birthday, Friday January 2, 2004. Interment in Calvary Ceme
 ENGELMAN--Fred L. 77, of Manhattan, died peacefully in his home on January 11, 2004 after a long illness. Born in the Bronx, NY to Tyler Henryta Weisel and Frederick William Engelman, he grew up in Chatham, NJ and graduated from Chatham High School (1944), Springfield College (1950) and Har
 GAMBLING--John. John was always a great friend to us. His good humor and voice will be missed greatly. Our deepest sympathy to Sally and the family. We are sure that John and Bill are playing paddle tennis as we speak. Annette and Noah Osnos, and June Bremer       
 GOLDBERG--Morris. Age 81, died on January 11, 2004. Beloved husband and best friend of Frieda for 57 years. Loving father to Kenneth, Vicky and Jay; devoted father-in-law to Ivy, Michael and Rosanne. Adored grandfather to Ross, Stefanie, Daniel, Jonathan, Alexandra, Max and Kyle. A man of i
 HALLARMAN -- Alfred, Dr. We are devastated by the loss of our very dear friend. Our hearts are broken for his wife Paula and their daughters Denise, Randi and Lynn. We will miss him and he will be forever in our hearts. Lucy and Martin       
 KUPFERMAN -- Leonard. 1926-2004. He was the beloved husband of Edith, devoted father of Ellis (Maura) and Seth (Cindy), proud grandfather of Max, Jacob, Jennifer and Rachel. Leonard was a man of great character, known for his warmth and kindness. A dedicated father; he will be sorely missed
 LEWIS--Charles Elliott. Age 71. Of Boca Raton, FL., formerly, a long-time resident of Bronxville, N.Y., passed away peacefully after a long illness on Sunday, January 4, 2004. Adored and beloved husband, soulmate and friend of Christine B. Lewis. Devoted and loving father of Charles E. Lewi
 MARTIN--Francis Jr. Who helped take New York City broadcasting representative, John Blair & Co., public in the 1960s, died surrounded by his family on December 23, 2003 in Reno, NV, after a long battle with cancer. He was 83. Son of a distinguished Bronx County judge, Martin was a sales rep
 MASON--Max. On January 12, 2004 at the age of 98. Beloved Husband of the late Jean Mason, cherished Father of Howard, Molly and the late Eli, devoted Grandfather of Andrew and Evan and Great-Grandfather of Amelia, Jack, Lily and Rachel, Uncle of Alan, Elliot, Goldie, Leo, Marsha, Phyllis, P
 MATERA--Arthur R. Died peacefully at his home on Saturday, January 10, 2004, after a long illness. He was preceded in death by his wife Barbara. Together they founded Barbara Matera Ltd., a theatrical costume company recognized internationally for its excellence. He lived his life fully; in
 MORGENTHAU -- Eugene, January 13, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Emmy Lou and the late Ellie. Loving twin brother of the late Charles. Devoted stepfather of Robert and Philip. Cherished grandfather and greatgrandfather. Service Thursday, January 15, 2004, 1pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 NAGLER--Simon H., M.D. died on January 7, in New York. Dr. Joseph English, Professor and Chairman of the Department of Psychiatry, New York Medical College and the Psychoanalytic Faculty of the Psychoanalytic Institute of New York Medical College mourn the passing of their esteemed colleagu
 OLSHEIM -- Jules. Passed away on January 12th, 2004. Husband of Lois, father of Craig and Leslie, and loving grandfather of 11 grandchildren. He was a retired partner in Helmsley-Spears Property Management. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to National Multiple Sclerosis Society
 SAVITS--Irving A. Beloved husband of Ruth, father of Cheri, Carol, Steve and Robert; grandfather of Mark, Danny, Jenny, Andrea and Toby. A gentle and kind man passed away Sunday, January 11, 2004. He loved his wife, family, heritage and country. We should all know the love Irving and Ruth s
 SMITH--William. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, are deeply saddened at the passing of William Smith, beloved husband of Helen, father of Howard Smith and Andrea Steinger, father-in-law of Thelma Smith. Bill was a proud and strong man
 SUTTER--Jerome, of Paris and New York, passed away in his sleep at his country home in France on November 12, with his family and close friend at his bedside.       
 WEINER--Irving H. June 7, 1910-January 11, 2004. Dearly beloved soulmate and friend, husband, father, uncle, grandfather, great grandfather, ''Gramps''. Both his laughter and ethics will echo in our ears and his love for us and our love for him will be eternal. A self made accomplished NYU 
 WIND--Oscar, of Lawrence, NY, age 91, passed away peacefully on January 13, just short of his 70th wedding anniversary to his devoted and beloved wife Sylvia. Proud father of Edward, Michael and Jane, loving grandfather of Stacy, Andrea, David, Kenneth and Kelley, and adored great-grandfath
 Robert Jordan, a leading American bridge player, died Saturday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Lorraine Jordan. On three occasions, Mr. Jordan came close to winning the world team title. In 1963, in St. Vincent, Italy
 BERINGER--Stuart Marshall. 80, passed away on January 13, 2004. Born January 27, 1923 in New York City, he grew up in Larchmont and lived most of his married life of 54 years in Rye. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy, received a BS degree in Chemistry from Harvard University and an 
 DIWAN -- Romesh Kumar. Age 70, died January 12, 2004 in Troy, NY. He was loved & esteemed by his wife Joyce Johnson Diwan, parents Leela Devi and Fateh Chand Diwan, brother and sister Denesh Diwan and Lata Kaushal, and many other relatives, friends, and students. Distinguished economist, te
 EARLY--James M. Died peacefully on January 12, 2004, in Palo Alto CA, aged 81, after a long illness. Dr. Early worked in the field of semiconductor engineering. He will be missed greatly by his wife of 55 years, Mary Agnes, his eight children, eleven grandchildren, and eight brothers and si
 GAMBLING--John. John was always a great friend to us. His good humor and voice will be missed greatly. Our deepest sympathy to Sally and the family. We are sure that John and Bill are playing paddle tennis as we speak. Annette and Noah Osnos, and June Bremer       
 KATES--David. The Board of Directors of the Bard Music Festival notes with sadness the passing of David Kates. He and his late wife, Karen, were long time friends and supporters of the Festival. Leon Botstein, Christopher Gibbs, Robert Martin, Co-Artistic Directors Robert Edmonds, Chairman 
 LEWIS--Charles Elliott. Age 71. Of Boca Raton, FL., formerly, a long-time resident of Bronxville, N.Y., passed away peacefully after a long illness on Sunday, January 4, 2004. Adored and beloved husband, soulmate and friend of Christine B. Lewis. Devoted and loving father of Charles E. Lewi
 MATERA--Arthur. Kevin McKenzie, the dancers and staff of American Ballet Theatre mourn the passing of Arthur Matera, a leading force in American theater. As founder of Barbara Matera, Ltd., along with his beloved wife Barbara, Arthur served the theater and dance community for over 40 years.
 NAPOLITANO--Joseph. May 6, 1918 to January 14, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Jennie and brother of the late Michael, Min and Jennie. He is survived by his daughter Catherine, son-in-law Charles Cicchetti, son Anthony and many relatives and friends. Donations in his memory to Avesboro El
 PARSONS--Isabelle J. The Polytechnic University community offers its condolences to our friend Richard D. Parsons on the passing of his beloved mother. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Polytechnic Trustee Laura Parsons, and to his entire family. Stewart G. Nagler, Chairman David C. Cha
 TISHMAN--Alan Valentine, 86, passed away Tuesday evening, January 13, 2004. Beloved husband of 62 years of Peggy (nee Margaret Westheimer). Darling father of Pat T. and James Q. Hall, the late David Henry Tishman and the late Virginia (Nina) Alexander. Adored grandfather of Adam and Laurie 
 ZAMPANO--Robert C. In New Haven, CT January 12, 2004. Retired Federal Judge, Robert C. Zampano, 74. Husband of Dorothea (Gilbride) Zampano of East Haven, CT. Father of Robert A. and Deborah L. Zampano. Brother of Mrs. Peter (Roberta) Seipold all of CT, and the late Marie Arpaia. He was a gr
 Alan V. Tishman, a prominent member of the family whose real estate enterprises helped transform New York's skyline, died on Tuesday at his home on Park Avenue in Manhattan, his wife, Margaret, said. He was 86. Mr. Tishman ran the leasing arm of the Tishman family companies, a vast 
 COHEN -- Dr. Ernest, 78, passed away peacefully on January 14, 2004, surrounded by his family. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Julie, children Paul, Beth, Larry, Anne and Andrew, granddaughter Ariel, brother Howard, sister-in-law Joy, and niece Cynthia. Dr. Cohen also leaves behind 
 FEDER--Theodore D., age 89, died January 15th. Beloved husband of Marika. Devoted father of Gene, Ann and Joan. Caring grandfather of Ellie, Ben, Josh, Jojo, Elizabeth, Jacob and Sam. Loving uncle of Beverly, June, Alan and Lami. Ted devoted his long professional life to the American Jewish
 KLEIN--Dr. Ira E., on January 14th. World renowned Prosthodontist, Professor Emeritus NYU School of Dentistry. Survived by wife, Florence, children, Michael Klein, Francine Madison, Anne Panoff, grandchildren, Barbara, Ellen, Sharon, Dana, Jody, Amanda, great-grandchildren, Zachariah and Ka
 ROSEN--Steven Mark, of Irvington, New York, died on Monday, January 12th. He was 61 years old. Steve had a distinguished 37-year career at NBC television. He was Associate Director for NBC Sports and NBC News and directed many NBC programs, including Grandstand, Today, Sunrise, Weekend Nigh
 SCHONBORN--Dennis. The Consolidated Jewelers Assoc. of Greater NY sadly announces the passing of their Executive Director and past President. Our sympathy to his wife, Valerie, and family. Shiva at their home. Donations to Make-A-Wish.       
 TISHMAN--Alan Valentine, 86, passed away Tuesday evening, January 13, 2004. Beloved husband of 62 years of Peggy (nee Margaret Westheimer). Loving brother of Robert V. Tishman and Virginia T. Meyerson. Darling father of Pat T. and James Q. Hall, the late David Henry Tishman and the late Vir
 WITTEN--Eugene R. Family and friends mourn the death of Gene Witten, 83. Painter, master framemaker, bon vivant, raconteur, Gene died peacefully on January 13, 2004 while listening to music in his home along the Battenkill River in Shushan, N.Y. A Memorial Service will be held in the Spring
 Zane Edison Barnes, who started as a telephone lineman and became the first chairman of what is now SBC Communications, died Jan. 9 at his home in St. Louis. He was 82. The cause was complications of injuries sustained in a fall during a trip in 2001, the company said. Mr. B
 Charles Dumas, who was the first person to clear seven feet in the high jump -- but only after buying a $3 ticket to compete in the meet -- died Jan. 5 at his home in Inglewood, Calif. He was 66. The cause was cancer, his daughter, Keasha Dumas, said. From 1954 to 1962, four
 Dr. Frederick C. Redlich, a psychiatrist who studied the relationship between the social environment and mental illness and wrote a comprehensive medical and psychological biography of Hitler, died at Yale-New Haven Hospital on Jan. 1. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failu
 Dr. Norman G. Heatley, an Oxford University biochemist who helped revolutionize medicine by isolating early samples of penicillin and helping to convert it into a powerful drug that gave Allied troops an advantage in World War II, died Jan. 5 at his home in Oxford, England, according to the
 CARTY--Thomas F. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Thomas F. Carty, a Veteran Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White, Jr. Historian       
 FEDER--Theodore D., age 89, died January 15th. Beloved husband of Marika. Devoted father of Gene, Ann and Joan. Caring grandfather of Ellie, Ben, Josh, Jojo, Elizabeth, Jacob and Sam. Loving uncle of Beverly, June, Alan and Lami. Ted devoted his long professional life to the American Jewish
 GRAF--Ernest. Died January 11, 2004, 83 years of age. Retired President of Ben Kahn Furs. Started several book clubs. Avid skier, swimmer and cyclist. Survived by loving wife Rhoda, adoring children Ellen, Julie, Eddie and their spouses, his granddaughters Samantha and the light of his life
 MARINO -- James Vincent. Passed on January 15, 2004. Born October 23, 1907 in Brooklyn, NY. Preceded in death by his parents, Frank and Jenny Pendula Marino, and his wife, Rose Cacioppo. Dearly missed by his son, Jim Marino, and granddaughter, Kelly. James was a Harvard Dental School grad w
 TISHMAN--Alan V. Alan provided me with a significant opportunity early in my career. I worked under his direction. He was my mentor and provided me with the finest real estate education possible at that time. He was exemplary on matters of ethics. He was a teacher, philanthropist, visionary
 TRENT--Thomas Robert. On January 10, 2004, at age 84, in his Stuart, FL home. Survived by his devoted wife of 33 years, Virginia; his stepchildren, Leslie, George, Terry and Robert Davidson and four grandchildren. He graduated from Stevens Institute of Technology in 1941. In WWII, he served
 TURNER--Joel M., 80, died January 15, 2004 after a prolonged illness. Born in New York City but a long time resident of Virginia Beach. He was the son of the late Albert Turner and the Late Pauline Turner and brother of the late Erwin Turner. He is survived by his loving wife, Jackie R. Tur
 Donald Leight, a trumpet player who worked as a sideman with big bands, in nightclubs and on Broadway and whose life was the inspiration for the prizewinning play ''Side Man,'' written by his son, Warren, died on Jan. 3 in a Manhattan hospital. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. The 
 Julian Neski, an architect whose modernist houses among the fields and dunes of the Hamptons were landmarks in weekend living, died on Jan. 8 at the Kateri Residence in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Water Mill, N.Y. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's diseas
 BRAUN--Melvin, January 1, 2004. Conair Corporation, an acknowledged leader in the personal care & culinary appliance industries joins with its Board of Directors, Executive Officers and all of its employees, to grieve the sad loss, and passing of one of its highly regarded and distinguished
 CHAIT--Daniel. We regret to announce the death of Daniel Chait, on January 8, 2004. He leaves a son, Jonathan, a daughter Alexandra, of San Diego, and two brothers, Albert and Stanley, of Los Angeles and New York respectively. Memorial services will be held at the Friends Meeting House, 343
 DINGLE--Derek, born in London, England, died on Sunday, January 11, 2004 in NYC at the age of 66. Derek was in the Royal Air Force based in Hong Kong. He moved to Canada in the early sixties where he worked as an engineer. In the late sixties Derek moved to New York City. In New York, Derek
 DRYDEN--Robert. 86, whose acting career spanned over four decades and scores of radio, television, theater, and film appearances, died on December 16, 2003, after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. He appeared in numerous radio series, including ''The Shadow'' and CBS Radio Mystery The
 EDER--Dr. Howard A. Of Woods Hole, MA, and NYC. He was born on September 23, 1917, in Milwaukee, WI, and graduated from University of Wisconsin in 1938. He received his M.D. from Harvard Medical School in 1942, and his M.P.H. from Harvard School of Public Health in 1945. He was currently Pr
 FARANT--Floyd H., M.D. On Friday, January 16, 2004, of Bloomfield, NJ. Brother of Raymond Farant of Byran, California. Also survived by his trusted and longtime companion and caregiver, Mrs. Yvonne Watson. Relatives and friends are invited to attend the funeral service at the O'Boyle Funera
 FINN--James A. Jr. A retired executive of the Caltex Petroleum Corporation, died peacefully at his home in South Strafford, VT, on December 28. Born on July 1, 1922, he was the eldest son of James A. Finn and Kathleen Macy Finn. Mr. Finn grew up in Ardsley on the Hudson, NY, and Southport, 
 GROSSMARK -- Louis I., 1887-2004. Passed away January 2 after 106 years of a full and complete life. Emigrating from Eastern Europe to New York as a very young child, Louis put himself through school. After graduating from DeWitt Clinton High School, he received his B.A. from the City Colle
 HECHT--Lillian. I wish to offer my deepest sympathies to our esteemed Rabbi Abraham Hecht upon the passing of his loving and cherished wife, Lillian. May the Almighty comfort the family on this tragic loss. Jack Avital       
 JENSEN--Donald F., age 72, scenic designer, died Saturday, January 10, 2004 in NYC. Don was born in Emporia, KS. He is survived by his sister, Rita, of Cottonwood Falls, KS, and many loving relatives and friends. A Memorial Mass will be held January 24, 2004 at the Church of the Blessed Sac
 MARINO -- James Vincent. Passed on January 15, 2004. Born October 23, 1907 in Brooklyn, NY. Preceded in death by his parents, Frank and Jenny Pendula Marino, and his wife, Rose Cacioppo. Dearly missed by his son, Jim Marino, and granddaughter, Kelly. James was a Harvard Dental School grad w
 OLIN--Gerald D. Of North Hills, NY, and Longboat Key, FL. Died peacefully on January 10, at age 77. Beloved husband of Susanne Cohen for 53 years. World War II veteran, graduate of Brown University 1948, and respected executive in mens clothing industry. Father to Daniel, Laura and the late
 ORR--Henry Steers II, 63, of Katonah, NY and Siasconset, MA died at home on Jan 12. Mr. Orr graduated from Westminster '58, Penn '62 and U New Haven '80. He spent 25 years at The Bank of New England and predecessors State National Bank and Connecticut Bank and Trust. Later became professor 
 RIPPS--Norman David. Of West Caldwell, NJ, on Thursday, January 15, 2004. After a 76 year life of devotion to every family member, friend, religious and philanthropic endeavor. He was not just my brother. He was brother, also, to every Bayonne childhood and West Caldwell friend, to his Ripp
 ROSENBURGH -- Burt. Re nowned syndicator and pioneer in the off-network sales and distribution of television programming; author of ''Brooklyn Biker and other Poems -- Memories of a Street Poet'', died January 3, 2004 in Florida from Multiple Myeloma at age 65. He is survived by his wife Ma
 RUIZ--Edward. With great sadness we acknowledge the passing of our brother Edward in Cape Town. Thoughtful and generous, he made a lasting impression on those who knew him. Our mother Miriam is forever grateful to his loving surrogate family, including Marina Petropulos and Mica Naumann of 
 SIRULNICK -- Marcy. Our deepest sympathy to our dear friend Sandy and his family in the loss of their beloved mother, wife and grandmother. We hope they find peace and comfort from their friends and family. Leslie and Alan Goldberg SIRULNICK--Mildred (Marcy). 83, of Hewlett Neck, NY
 TAFT--Nathaniel B. A lawyer specializing in the regulation of health care and life insurance, died Sunday, January 11 at age 84. A graduate of Harvard Law School (Class of '48), his biography appears in Who's Who in America, Who's Who in the World and Who's Who in American Law. For 54 years
 TISHMAN--Alan Valentine, 86, passed away Tuesday evening, January 13, 2004. Beloved husband of 62 years of Peggy (nee Margaret Westheimer). Loving brother of Robert V. Tishman and Virginia T. Meyerson. Darling father of Pat T. and James Q. Hall, the late David Henry Tishman and the late Vir
 TURNER--Joel M., 80, died January 15, 2004 after a prolonged illness. Born in New York City but a long time resident of Virginia Beach. He was the son of the late Albert Turner and the Late Pauline Turner and brother of the late Erwin Turner. He is survived by his loving wife, Jackie R. Tur
 VASERMAN -- Eugene Jor man. Respected immigration lawyer. Beloved son of Marianne Vaserman, sister Gisela, nephews Sebastian and Benjamin. He will be extremely missed for his human qualities.       
 WIND--Oscar, of Lawrence, NY, age 91, passed away peacefully on January 13, just short of his 70th wedding anniversary to his devoted and beloved wife Sylvia. Proud father of Edward, Michael and Jane, loving grandfather of Stacy, Andrea, David, Kenneth and Kelley, and adored great-grandfath
 Ray Stark, one of the most successful independent producers in postwar Hollywood, died yesterday at his West Hollywood home. He was 88. Mr. Stark, whose health had been flagging for some time, died of heart failure, said his daughter, Wendy Stark Morrissey. As a producer, Mr
 James M. Early, an electrical engineer who pioneered increased transistor performance in the 1950's at Bell Labs, died on Jan. 12 at the veterans hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Palo Alto. The cause of death was severe asthma, which Mr. Early had suffered from s
 John W. Hechinger, a civic and business leader who guided a chain of home improvement stores for four decades and was the first appointed chairman of Washington's City Council, died on Sunday at his home. It was his 84th birthday. The cause was a respiratory problem, after a long il
 AXELROD -- Harvey. Died January 16th, 2004, in Clearwater, FL. Survived by his devoted wife, Shirley Axelrod, brother Stanley, children Linda Kastner, Amy Klein and Steven Lewis, and grandchildren Zohar, Megan and Gaby. A veteran of WWII, he was decorated with a Purple Heart. An active and 
 PARADISE--John H. Of Manhattan, on January 17, at age 91. He will be sorely missed by his wife Jean, daughter Emily Paradise Achtenberg, son-in-law Ben Achtenberg, grandson Jesse Achtenberg and brother Joseph. John, throughout his life, was an active advocate for civil rights, social justic
 SCHNABEL--Jack. Died Saturday morning, January 17, 2004. The world will be a little bit dimmer except for those who believe he hasn't left us. He said ''I wish my wife was alive, she'd tell you what a good man I am.'' But he really didn't need to say that. The last thing he said was, ''Love
 TISHMAN -- Alan. The trustees and staff of the New York City Police Foundation are deeply saddened by the passing of Alan Tishman. He was a staunch supporter of our work for many years along with his wife Peggy. Alan's active participation had a significant impact on our work, and we will i
 Prince Alfonso Hohenlohe-Langenburg, who turned the Spanish fishing village of Marbella into a glittery jet-set playground, died Dec. 21 at his home there, the town authorities told Agence France-Presse. He was 79. The cause was prostate cancer, the authorities told European newspap
 Ray Stark, one of the most successful independent producers in postwar Hollywood, died Saturday at his West Hollywood home. He was 88. Mr. Stark, whose health had been flagging for some time, died of heart failure, said his daughter, Wendy Stark Morrissey. Mr. Stark was a pr
 Dr. Howard A. Eder, a New York doctor and scientist whose studies of cholesterol led to breakthroughs in the understanding of heart disease, died on Jan. 15 in Raleigh, N.C. He was 86. The cause was sudden cardiac arrest after heart surgery, said Dr. Rebecca Eder, a daughter, of Peo
 Harry Brecheen, an All-Star pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals who won three games in their 1946 World Series victory over the Boston Red Sox, died Saturday at a nursing facility in Bethany, Okla. He was 89. Brecheen, who lived in Ada, Okla., had been in failing health and broke a 
 Max D. Barnes, who wrote many of country music's most evocative hits during the last 30 years, including ''Chiseled in Stone,'' about the death of his son, died here on Jan. 11. He was 67. The cause was complications of pneumonia, family members told The Nashville Tennessean.       
 DURGIN--Don. Died December 26, 2003, at Lenox Hill Hospital, at age 79, from an aneurism. Beloved husband of Catherine Meacham Durgin. Father of William Ryerson Durgin II of Manhattan, and Hillary Durgin Harmon of Houston, TX. Grandfather of Murphey, Cornelius Kelley, Samuel and Therese Har
 HARRIS--Jonathan of Larchmont. Died January 18, 2004 at age 60. Graduate of Columbia College 1965 and Columbia Law School 1968. He was an attorney with Swidler, Berlin, Sheareff and Friedman. Jonathan is survived by his mother Mollie, wife Myra (nee Levine), sons Arthur and Robbie and broth
 HAUSEN--Rod, 52, accomplished and beloved pianist, composer, arranger, musical director, and teacher died on January 18, from cancer. He is survived by his parents Roy and Ruth Hausen and his loving spouse, Susan. A wake will be held from 3 PM to 9 PM on Wednesday, January 21st, at Flynn an
 HERTZBERG -- Benjamin, died suddenly, January 16, 2004. Dr. Diane E. Meier, Director of the Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, and Dr. Albert Siu, Chair of the Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and their fac
 HYMAN--Henry, 86, of Brooklyn, died on January 18, 2004. Loving husband of the late Rachel, devoted brother of Sy and the late Noel, adored uncle and dear friend. A rare human being loved by many, he will be missed by all. Funeral services Yablokoff Chapel, January 20, 1978 Coney Island Ave
 NEUWELT--Gerald, 82, died Janaury 19th. He is survived by wife Bettye; four sons: Lewis (Diane), Stuart (Myrna), Ronald, and Richard, two daughters: Mona, and Bonnie, and 11 grandchildren. For information contact Danzansky Goldberg Funeral Chapel, Maryland, 301-340-1400.       
 SULCER--Frederick D. ''Sandy'' on January 18, 2004 at age 77. Retired Vice Chairman of DDB Needham Worldwide. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of Tom, Ginna Marston and David. Interment private. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St, Friday, January 30th
 WAGNER--Victor H. Victor has joined his beloved Jonesy in death at age 88. His career took him from a one-room Kansas schoolhouse to Greenvale, Little Red, and Brooklyn Friends. Educator to the end, he recently taught bridge to fellow seniors. Daughters Edrie Cote and Irene Wagner, stepchil
 Paul I. Abell, a chemistry professor who on a field trip in 1978 at Laetoli in East Africa came across the footprints of ancestral bipeds made famous by Mary Leakey, died Jan. 12 at his home in Kingston, R.I. He was 80. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Abe
 Jerry Nachman, an old-style newshound who had an award-winning career in highly visible jobs in broadcast and newspaper journalism, most recently as editor in chief and vice president of the cable news network MSNBC, died late Monday or early yesterday at his home in Hoboken, N.J., MSNBC sa
 John Holter, a machinist who in trying to save his son's life invented a device to treat a dangerous brain disorder, died on Dec. 22 in a nursing home in Devon, Pa. He was 87. The cause was complications of a stroke he suffered in October, said Lou Dardozzi, a longtime friend.      
 CHUDNOFF--David. In his 95th year on January 20. Beloved husband of the late Alma. Devoted father of Helene, Marvin and the late Barry. Cherished grandfather of Alexander, Samuel and Elijah. Always remembered as kind, gentle and loyal. A good husband, father and friend.       
 COWLES--Roderick S., 89, of The Dunes, NJ, passed away on January 10 in Manahawkin, NJ. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he graduated from Pratt Institute in 1935 and from Kean College in 1983. He was an Executive VP at E.R. Squibb & Sons, and the company's voice in Wash., DC where he worked closely w
 DUFFY--Martin. The Faculty, Staff and Board of Directors of the New York University Child Study Center mourn the loss of Martin Duffy whose generous spirit informed his work with the NYU Child Study Center Silver Shield Bereavement Program for families of uniformed officers who perished on 
 FLEETWOOD--Harry. Died at 86, January 18, in New York City. A broadcast icon for 50 years, he was radio's first allnight classical music DJ for 30 years, first on NBC and then WNCN. He hosted, narrated, announced and sang on many other New York City radio/TV stations and, in French, broadca
 HAUSEN--Rod, 52, accomplished and beloved pianist, composer, arranger, musical director, and teacher died on January 18, from cancer. He is survived by his parents Roy and Ruth Hausen and his loving spouse, Susan. A wake will be held from 3 PM to 9 PM on Wednesday, January 21st, at Flynn an
 HERTZBERG -- Benjamin, died suddenly January 16, 2004. Memorial services private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Box 1070, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 10029.       
 KATZ--Sheldon C. The Rent Stabilization Association of New York City mourns the loss of Sheldon C. Katz, its longtime Chairman of the Board. Mr. Katz was a giant in the real estate industry who during his 26 years as RSA Chairman was a staunch defender of the rights of small property owners
 KAUFMANN -- Peter Hans, died on January 20, 2004 at the age of 86. Husband of Ruth, father of Ronald, Jacqueline and Andrew. Fatherin-law of Susan, Howard and Pamela and devoted grandfather of Scott, Adam, Leslie, Tanya and Nicole. He will be greatly missed. Funeral Services on Friday, 2:30
 KIRSCHENBAUM--Irving J., who practiced law in New York City, passed away on December 23, 2003 at the age of 101. He is survived by his wife, Evelyn, two sons, Robert and David, and his grandson, Joshua. A memorial meeting is scheduled to be held at New York Law School on January 30 at 10:30
 RODEWALD--Clark G. The faculty, administration, staff and alumni/ae of Bard College mourn the passing of long-time faculty member, alumnus and beloved friend, Clark G. Rodewald '59, who, for more than 30 years, instilled in his students a love of learning and a passion for literature. We ex
 TIGERMAN--James. Age 52 of Chicago. Interior designer, scholar/collector/dealer of Asian and modern art, gallery owner, entrepreneur, devoted son of the late Merle and Happy; survived by family, friends and his devoted dog ''Bouber''. An announcement of a memorial in celebration of Jim's li
 TODEL--Mortimer. The Mental Health Association of New York City, deeply mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. His involvement with our organization goes back more than forty years. As a founder and past president of the Association's Board, we revere him for his gene
 WARD--Herbert Everard. On Christmas Eve morn 2003 Herbert Everard Ward was born into eternity. Herbert was predeceased by parents Alice Everard Ward, Joseph Marshall Ward, and stepmother Donna Tenny Ward. His brother Frank Ward, sister-in-law Dorothy Ward, niece Alice Ward Raviolo and nephe
 WILENS--Bernard T., CPA, died January 16 in New York at age 83. Beloved husband of Miriam, father of Diane (Perry) and David (Angela), grandfather of Argo, Demetri, Allison and Brian, brother of Cele. Contributions in his name may be made to Hadassah.       
 Sheldon C. Katz, chairman emeritus of the Rent Stabilization Association of New York City, an outspoken opponent of the city's rent controls and a spokesman for building owners in the separate system of rent stabilization, died on Sunday at his winter home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 69 and
 George Woodbridge, a cartoonist and illustrator whose hapless, baggy suburbanites peopled Mad magazine for nearly 50 years, died in a hospital on Staten Island on Tuesday. He was 73 and lived on Staten Island. The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Deborah Woodbridge. Known
 The Rev. Laton Earle Holmgren, a former general secretary of the American Bible Society, who oversaw the distribution of millions of Bibles around the world, died on Sunday at his retirement home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 88. His death was announced by the society's headquarte
 Dr. Merrill W. Chase, an immunologist whose research on white blood cells helped undermine the longstanding belief that antibodies alone protected the body from disease and micro-organisms, died on Jan. 5 at his home in New York City, according to the Rockefeller University, where he worked
 DURGIN--Don. Died December 26, 2003, at Lenox Hill Hospital, at age 79, from an aneurism. Beloved husband of Catherine Meacham Durgin. Father of William Ryerson Durgin II of Manhattan, and Hillary Durgin Harmon of Houston, TX. Grandfather of Murphey, Cornelius Kelley, Samuel and Therese Har
 GUIOR--Armand M., 92, died peacefully in his home in Rockville Centre, NY on January 20, 2004. He was the Founder of Jean's Silversmiths in NYC where he was also known as Mr. Armand or Jean. He is survived by his adoring wife and partner of 66 years Rhoda (nee Tiger). He will be missed grea
 HERZBERG--Herbert. Born December 21, 1913, Berlin, Germany, died January 18, 2004, New York, NY. Beloved husband of Rita Guibert Herzberg and the late Luisa Herzberg. Cherished father of Horacio Herzberg, Ernesto Herzberg, and Ana Maria Neuman. Loving Vati to Gabriela and David Herzberg; Ja
 KATZ--Sheldon C. The partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the passing of our client and dear friend. We had the greatest admiration possible for Sheldon's courage, determination, wisdom and wit -all of which he maintained during his debilitating illness. We shall miss hi
 KAUFMANN--Peter. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Peter Kaufmann, a cherished friend known for his longtime devotion and commitment to the New York Jewish community and to UJA-Federation's beneficiary agencies. We extend our deep
 TODEL--Mortimer. Died January 20 in New York, the city he loved. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and brother. He was a social worker and an attorney for over 50 years, a Bronx Assistant D.A., and later, Executive Assistant to the US Attorney, Robert Morganthau. A humanitarian, always h
 WEISS -- Franklin. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Allan and Cathy Weiss, Elizabeth and Joshua Gindea, and Stacey and Neil Weiss. Cherished grandfather of Andrew, Brittany, Daniel, Michael, Samantha, James and Jake. May his memory be blessed. He will always live in our hearts.
 BAYER--Merwin, 88. Beloved husband of 63 years to Molly. Loving father of Virginia and the late Hank. Caring fatherin-law of Janice Bayer and Rabbi Robert Hirt. Adored grandfather of David, Brad and Hilary. Cherished brother of Jean Kauvar, Abba, and brother-in-law to Irving Silverman. Devo
 CRESSLER--William P., Jr. On January 17, 2004, at age 61. Beloved husband of Sandra Hanlon-Cressler, and beloved son of Emily Cressler and the late William P. Cressler, of Upper Derby, PA., dear brother of Margaret A. Smith of Philadelphia, PA., Patricia A. Kelly of Bellmawr, NJ, Anna Marie
 DALL--Stewart M. of Brick Hill Road in Lyme, New Hampshire died Tuesday, January 20, 2004 in Claremont, NH at the Integrated Health Services. He is survived by his wife, Margaret (Meyerkort) Dall of Lyme; and two sons, Stewart M. Dall, Jr. of Vancouver, WA, and Henry A. ''Tony'' Dall of Bra
 GUIOR--Armand M., 92, died peacefully in his home in Rockville Centre, NY on January 20, 2004. He was the Founder of Jean's Silversmiths in NYC where he was also known as Mr. Armand or Jean. He is survived by his adoring wife and partner of 66 years Rhoda (nee Tiger). He will be missed grea
 HERZBERG--Herbert. Born December 21, 1913, Berlin, Germany, died January 18, 2004, New York, NY. Beloved husband of Rita Guibert Herzberg and the late Luisa Herzberg. Cherished father of Horacio Herzberg, Ernesto Herzberg, and Ana Maria Neuman. Loving Vati to Gabriela and David Herzberg; Ja
 KASS--Benjamin, in his 88th year, died on January 22, 2004. He was the light of our lives and the adored husband of Marilyn, father of Jane, Susan and Michael, Mitchell, Richard and Susan, Adam and Barbara and grandfather of Jennifer, Philip, David, Sarah, Matthew, Aaron, Kimberly, Brittany
 KATZ--Sheldon C. Its with a heavy heart that I say farewell to my employer and most of all my dear friend. Your courage and spirit is what I will carry with me into the future. My heart is broken for your wife Deana, your children, grandchildren and the entire Katz family. I know that all o
 KORNHABER -- Hubert. On January 21, 2004, age 74, of Long Beach, N.Y. Beloved father and best friend of Eileen for 52 years. Devoted father of Steven, Mindy and Michael. Admired father-inlaw of Diane and Arlene. Cherished grandfather of Mitchell, Adam, Jamie and Kara and Paulina. He put his
 NARDUCCI--William, 77, of New York City--playwright, lyricist, novelist, actor, dancer. Died January 19, 2004. In original casts of Broadway's ''Brigadoon'' and ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes'', known as William Narcy. Beloved friend of dozens of Actors Studio members and theater community. Sur
 ROSENBAUM--Allen S. The employees of BMW of Manhattan wish to acknowledge the untimely passing of their friend and co-worker, Allen. We wish to offer our sincere condolences to his family and loved ones. We thank Allen for his professionalism, kindness, and inspiration. He will be truly mis
 WAHLBERG--Donald Olaf. Beloved husband, devoted father, cherished brother, neighbor, and colleague passed away on January 17, 2004. A life-long resident of New York and graduate of Utica College, his career in video editing encompassed 15 years at NBC, two Emmy awards, and 14 years with Cha
 Dr. Robert E. Shope, an expert on viruses who was the principal author of a highly publicized 1992 report by the National Academy of Sciences warning of the possible emergence of new and unsettling infectious illnesses, died on Monday in Galveston, Tex. He was 74. The cause was comp
 Bob Keeshan, who delighted millions of children and their parents for three decades as television's gentle, patient Captain Kangaroo and before that as the original Clarabell the Clown on the old ''Howdy Doody Show,'' died yesterday in Vermont, his family said in a statement to The Associat
 Helmut Newton, the prolific, widely imitated fashion photographer whose provocative, erotically charged photos were a mainstay of Vogue and other publications, died yesterday after a car crash in Hollywood. He was 83. The Los Angeles police told The Associated Press that Mr. Newton 
 JOHNSON--Alfred, M.D. on January 22, 2004 at age 84. Dr. Johnson served for many years as a urologist at Lenox Hill Hospital. Beloved husband of Mary Johnson and brother-in-law of Lily Fichopolos. Loving father of Lillian Kreitsek, Jr., Irene Campbell and their husbands William and John. Ad
 KALMANOFF--Herbert, M.D. 92. On January 19 in NYC. Husband of the late Catherine Kalmanoff, beloved father of Wendy Sobel and Jonathan Kalmanoff, father-in-law of Laura Kalmanoff, loving grandfather of Julie and Amy Sobel and William Kalmanoff; dear brother of Blanche Perlman, Norma Ohringe
 KEESHAN--Robert J. It is with deep regret and sorrow that the Board of Trustees, Administration, Medical Board, Medical Staff, Volunteers and Employees of Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center mark the passing of Robert J. Keeshan, Trustee Emeritus. Mr. Keeshan, a Babylon resident, was an 
 SULCER--Frederick ''Sandy.'' DDB Worldwide and its staff deeply mourn the death of advertising great Sandy Sulcer. The former copywriter, who penned ''Put a Tiger in Your Tank,'' achieved tremendous success during his tenure in the advertising industry, rising through the ranks to become Ch
 Don Lawrence, a British science fiction illustrator and cartoonist, died on Dec. 29 in a hospital near his home in Jevington, East Sussex, England. He was 75. The cause was pneumonia and emphysema, said his wife, Lis. Mr. Lawrence was overlooked in his home country, but was 
 Harry Fleetwood, whose deep voice and sly wit gave smooth, intelligent guidance to fans of all-night classical music radio in New York City for nearly three decades, died last Sunday in Manhattan, his friend Jerry Kaufman said. He was 86. Fleetwood, as he was known professionally, w
 Helmut Newton, the prolific, widely imitated fashion photographer whose provocative, erotically charged photos were a mainstay of Vogue and other publications, died on Friday after a car crash in Hollywood. He was 83. The Los Angeles police told The Associated Press that Mr. Newton 
 AUGUST--Jesse. 75, of Hobe Sound, FL, passed away Friday, January 23, 2004, at his residence. Born in China, Jesse has resided in Hobe Sound for the past six years, moving here from New York. Jesse was a self employed pearl importer and exporter all over the world prior to retiring. He was 
 BAYER--Merwin, 88. Beloved husband of 63 years to Molly. Loving father of Virginia and the late Hank. Caring fatherin-law of Janice Bayer and Rabbi Robert Hirt. Adored grandfather of David, Brad and Hilary. Cherished brother of Jean Kauvar, Abba, and brother-in-law to Irving Silverman. Devo
 BOWERS--Philip James III. 65, of Bernardsville, NJ, died Friday, January 23, 2004, of lung cancer complications. Jim was born a triplet in Newark, NJ, to the late Philip James Bowers II and Ruth Geiger Bowers, residing in Tryon, NC, who survives him. He graduated from the Delbarton School a
 CRESSLER--William P., Jr. On January 17, 2004, at age 61. Beloved husband of Sandra Hanlon-Cressler, and beloved son of Emily Cressler and the late William P. Cressler, of Upper Derby, PA., dear brother of Margaret A. Smith of Philadelphia, PA., Patricia A. Kelly of Bellmawr, NJ, Anna Marie
 FISHMAN -- Irving. 85, of Riverdale, NY, died January 22, 2004. Beloved husband of Frances, father of Phyllis Angelo and husband Roger and Paul Fishman and wife Elizabeth, grandfather of Gary, Lauren husband Glenn, Leah, Meyer, and Edwin, brother of Estelle Dichter. Veteran of WWII and the 
 HALLARMAN--Alfred. The faculty of NYU College of Dentistry is saddened by the loss of this esteemed faculty member. Our deepest sympathy to his family.       
 HEIDELL--Robert Charles. 79, of Vero Beach, FL, died January 20, 2004, at the VNA Hospice House of Vero Beach, after a prolonged illness. He was born on October 19, 1924, in Brooklyn, NY, and had retired to Vero Beach in 1998, after residing in Bronxville, NY. He graduated from Union Colleg
 JOHNSON--Alfred, M.D. on January 22, 2004 at age 84. Dr. Johnson served for many years as a urologist at Lenox Hill Hospital. Beloved husband of Mary Johnson and brother-in-law of Lily Fichopolos. Loving father of Lillian Kreitsek, Jr., Irene Campbell and their husbands William and John. Ad
 KASS--Benjamin, in his 88th year, died on January 22, 2004. He was the light of our lives and the adored husband of Marilyn, father of Jane, Susan and Michael, Mitchell, Richard and Susan, Adam and Barbara and grandfather of Jennifer, Philip, David, Sarah, Matthew, Aaron, Kimberly, Brittany
 KATONA--Gabe (Gabriel P.), on January 19, lost his valiant battle with cancer. He is mourned by his wife Gaby.       
 KAUFMANN--Peter H. The Board and Staff of City Harvest mourn the passing of Peter Kaufmann, generous and dedicated supporter of our work feeding the hungry. He had an amazing life and cared deeply about New Yorkers. His family, friends, and colleagues have our sympathy. Julia Erickson, Exec
 KEESHAN--Robert J. It is with deep regret and sorrow that the Board of Trustees, Administration, Medical Board, Medical Staff, Volunteers and Employees of Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center mark the passing of Robert J. Keeshan, Trustee Emeritus. Mr. Keeshan, a Babylon resident, was an 
 KORNHABER -- Hubert. On January 21, 2004, age 74, of Long Beach, N.Y. Beloved father and best friend of Eileen for 52 years. Devoted father of Steven, Mindy and Michael. Admired father-inlaw of Diane and Arlene. Cherished grandfather of Mitchell, Adam, Jamie and Kara and Paulina. He put his
 MEACHEN--Stanley Walter. Of Trumbull, CT. Died at age 68 on January 19. Stanley was a Vice President at Chase Manhattan, retiring in 2001. He is survived by his wife, children and grandchildren.       
 MERRIAM--George R. Jr., M.D. The faculty and staff at the Edward Harkness Eye Institute mourn the loss of Dr. George R. Merriam Jr., professor emeritus, a beloved physician and colleague. A leader in ophthalmology and in the department, he made enormous contributions to the radiation treatm
 NESS--Anne Farrar Semple, 96, died at a nursing home in Mashpee, MA on January 11, 2004. Philip Wahmann Ness, her husband of 72 years, died recently. Mrs. Ness graduated from the Mary Institute (St. Louis, MO) in 1925 and the Knox School (Cooperstown, NY) in 1927. She was an avid sportswoma
 NEWTON--Helmut. It was a privilege to have known Helmut. May his loving wife June be comforted. Stephanie Parker       
 ROSS--Frederick Jerome. It is with great sadness and a deep sense of loss that we say goodbye to our devoted friend Frederick Jerome Ross. We are sure that all of his dear friends at the Great Neck Senior Center where he was an active board member for 20 years would like to join us in biddi
 SPIEGEL -- Mathias Lloyd, age 77, died at home, January 21, 2004. A lawyer, a potter and former official of the City of New York, he is survived by his sons, Paul and Andrew Spiegel, and his grandsons Drew and Matthew. His extended family includes his long-time companion, Harriet Yarmolinsk
 STEINMAN--Sadie. On January 17, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Murray. Devoted mother of Bertram and his wife Dorothy. Adored grandmother of Stuart and his wife Jane; and Jeffrey and his wife Linda. Great-grandmother of Michael, Daniel, Benjamin, Joshua, Samuel, Noah, Zachary, and Aaron Ada
 SULCER--Frederick D. ''Sandy'' on January 18, 2004 at age 77. Retired Vice Chairman of DDB Needham Worldwide. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of Tom, Ginna Marston and David. Interment private. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St, Friday, January 30th
 TANEN--Nathan. On January 24, 2004, at age 88. Beloved husband of Reni (nee Neuss). Devoted father of Donald and Elissa (Steven Tolman). Adored grandfather of Jordan and Kimberly. Cherished brother of Irving Tanen and Lillian Portnoy. Services Sunday, January 25, 1 pm, at ''Riverside - Nass
 VOGEL--John H. Age 80, of Ft. Pierce, FL, died January 23, 2004. Mr. Vogel was a partner with his brother in the custom shoe and bootmaking business, E. Vogel, Inc., started in 1879 by their greatgrandfather, Egidius. Mr. Vogel was awarded the Bronze Star for heroic achievement while servin
 Rambling Rudy Phillips, who spent his teenage years hopping freight trains to everywhere and nowhere and lived to become one of America's last and best-known Depression-era hobos, died on Jan. 9 in Harrisburg, Ill. He was 92 when he caught ''the westbound to heaven,'' in the time-ho
 Billy May, a prolific arranger best known for his work with Frank Sinatra, died on Thursday at his home in San Juan Capistrano, Calif., his wife, Doris, said. He was 87. Sinatra's 1957 album ''Come Fly With Me,'' the first of several collaborations with Mr. May, reached No. 1 on the
 Dr. Joseph Warshaw, an expert on fetal growth and neonatal medical care who advanced the understanding of the way organs mature in normal and diabetic pregnancies, died Dec. 29 in Burlington, Vt. He was 67. The cause was multiple myeloma, according to the University of Vermont, wher
 AUGUST--Jesse. The members and staff of Elmwood Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and friend, Jesse August. We wish to express our deepest sympathies to his wife Buzzy and to his entire family.       
 BOWERS--Philip James III. 65, of Bernardsville, NJ, died Friday, January 23, 2004, of lung cancer complications. Jim was born a triplet in Newark, NJ, to the late Philip James Bowers II and Ruth Geiger Bowers, residing in Tryon, NC, who survives him. He graduated from the Delbarton School a
 KEESHAN--Robert J. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Robert J. Keeshan, friend of longstanding and Former Chair of the Board of Trustees. One of America's great educators of keen mind and gentle heart, his Captain Kangaroo was a master teacher for decade
 MEACHEN--Stanley Walter. Of Trumbull, CT. Died at age 68 on January 19. Stanley was a Vice President at Chase Manhattan, retiring in 2001. He is survived by his wife, children and grandchildren.       
 POND--Charles ''Chuck'' Jr. An electrical contractor in Fairfield County for 30 years, who was easily recognizable by the gold leaf CWP logo that adorned the company's fleet of trucks, died on Friday, January 23, 2004, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York. He was 68, and lived i
 QUILTY--Arthur M. Died on January 23, 2004 at Easton Hospital in Easton, PA. Born in Boston, MA, he served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy from 1943-1946. He graduated from Yale in 1948 where he received a BA in English Literature. In 1950 he graduated from Harvard Business School where he
 RUCHELMAN--Jacob. Age 96, died on January 23, 2004. Mr. Ruchelman was in business in New York City for many years and retired to Florida in 1988, before moving to the Norfolk, Virginia area. Mr. Ruchelman served as a long-term president of his fraternal society (Mechalpolia Podolia Society)
 SCHWARTZ -- Pauline. On January 24, 2004. With deepest regret we announce the death of Pauline Schwartz. Beloved sister of Gail Gold. Loving aunt of Richard and Carolyn Gold and their family, Howard and Pat Cohen and their family, Nancy Shapiro and her family, Robert Cohen and his family, P
 SWAYNE--Michael E. Sr. Died Friday, January 23, in Somerville, NJ. He was 69. Survived by his wife of 44 years, the former Ida Murphy of Somerset, NJ, three sons, Michael Jr., James Sr. and John, all of Somerset, three daughters Patricia Swayne of Harmony, NJ, Maureen Swayne of Somerset, An
 Olivier Guichard, a guardian of France's Gaullist legacy and architect of its regional administration, last Tuesday at his home in Paris after a long illness, according to an announcement placed in the name of his family, which appeared in Le Figaro. He was 83. Led by President Jacq
 DOMAN--Nicholas R., 90, slipped peacefully away Sunday morning, January 25. Husband of Judith Nicely Doman, father of Daniel, Alexander, stepfather of Lisa, grandfather of Amanda and Joshua, stepgrandfather of four. Born in Budapest, educated in Hungary and at the University of Colorado. Se
 FAHY--Edward P., on January 24. Age 92. Husband of the late Constance. Father of Peter Fahy, Barbara Hayslip, Patricia Greenleaf and Ann Scozzafava. Loving grandfather of nine. He also leaves his long-time devoted partner, Theresa Klappenberger. Born in Brooklyn, he attended the US Coast Gu
 GARFINKLE--Sandor, founder of Gemini Industries, dies at 67. Sandor Garfinkle, the founder and long-time CEO of Gemini Industries of Clifton, NJ and an active philanthropist, died yesterday in his home in Boca Raton, Florida. He was 67. Mr. Garfinkle founded Gemini Industries in 1964 and ov
 KEESHAN--Robert J. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Robert J. Keeshan, friend of longstanding and Former Chair of the Board of Trustees. One of America's great educators of keen mind and gentle heart, his Captain Kangaroo was a master teacher for decade
 MUNNELL--Dr. Equinn William, noted obstetrician and gynecological surgeon, pioneer in ovarian cancer, skilled teacher, and beloved father and husband to his family, died on January 21, 2004. Born 1913, he was Emeritus Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Columbia Presbyter
 NEWTON--Helmut. It was an honor to have met Helmut Newton and a true privilege to have shared wonderful moments with him. His photographic work was only part of his greatness; he was kind, funny, a true genius. Helmut will be long missed and forever remembered. We remember him with much lov
 OSTERWEIS--Steven L. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of long time Board Member Steven L. Osterweis. A devoted member of the Y community since 1970, Steven was a successful and respected businessman, who devoted himself to the organizations in which he believed. We will m
 PIERCE--Robert Henry Horace Jr., Ph.D. Chemist of Wilmington, Delaware, passed away on January 22, 2004, in Crofton, Maryland. He worked for United States Steel and DuPont. He was predeceased by his wife Marion Armbruster Pierce, a Ph.D. chemist, and is survived by two Ph.D. chemist daughte
 RUCHELMAN--Jacob. Age 96, died on January 23, 2004. Mr. Ruchelman was in business in New York City for many years and retired to Florida in 1988, before moving to the Norfolk, Virginia area. Mr. Ruchelman served as a long-term president of his fraternal society (Mechalpolia Podolia Society)
 STERN--Stanley R. On January 24, 2004, our beloved friend and companion for 50 years passed away. Simply stated, Stanley Stern was a man whose loyalty, generosity, kindness and intellect transcended normal human bounds. He found intellectual pursuit the most nourishing of forces, and he saw
 STREBEL -- Ralph F., Jr. Ph.D., 80, of Canastota, NY, passed away following a lengthy illness on January 23, 2004 at his home with his family by his side. He is survived by his wife, Christine, by his four children, Frederick, Stephen, Deborah and Christina from his prior marriage to Melitt
 SUSSMAN--David. On January 24, 2004, age 77, of Plainview, NY. Beloved husband and best friend of Cecile. Devoted father of Bill, Tina, Rena and Paula. Admired father-in-law of Jane and Glenn. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Jenny, Matthew and Sarah. Loving brother, uncle and friend to ma
 URY--Joseph, 67, died January 24 of lymphoma. Survived by his beloved fiancee, Marilyn Trichon and brother Michael. Contributions can be made to the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, 475 Park Ave So., 8th fl, NY, NY 10016.       
 Jack Paar, the prickly, often emotional and always unpredictable humorist who turned late-night television into a national institution when he was host of the ''Tonight Show'' from 1957 to 1962, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his son-in-law, Stephen Wells, told The Associat
 Jacob Mishler, a senior federal judge for the Eastern District of New York and its chief judge for 11 years, died on Monday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92 and lived in Garden City, N.Y. His death was announced yesterday by the court, which he served for 43 years after his appoin
 GIBSON--Christian Dillard. A leading designer of material handling equipment and holder of numerous patents on related mechanical devices, died on January 22, 2004, in League City, TX. He was 89 years old. Chris was born in Rocky Ford, CO on August 29, 1914, and graduated in 1937 with a deg
 HABIB -- James Michael, passed away on January 27 at age 71. He is survived by his daughter Jamie Talan Firstman and his son Michael Belsky, father of the late Jonathan Habib, and his five grandchildren, Amanda, Allison, Jordan, Leigh and Christopher and his son-in-law Richard Firstman and 
 HERMANN--Robert Lewis, who celebrated his 69th birthday on December 11th, lost his battle with depression on Sunday, January 25th, 2004. Bob is survived by his wife Karen Kennedy Hermann, and their daughter Priscilla from Stanfordville, New York. From his previous marriage to Barbara Herman
 HIRSH--Kurt, devoted husband of Margaret, beloved father of Helen and Richard, cherished and adored grandfather of Daniel, Evelyn, Stephen, and David, trusted friend and advisor, passed away on January 26 at age 86. Kurt enjoyed an active retirement from a long career, having successfully e
 JARRETT--Milton Philip, former Queens resident, died January 26 in Boynton Beach, FL at the age of 88. Husband of Harriet, father to Rosalind and David. Milton was a recipient of the B'nai B'rith Torch of Freedom Award and served as president of the City Line Chamber of Commerce. He was a C
 KATZ--Sander. The Board of Governors and membership of Dellwood Country Club express sincere condolences to Cindy and sons on Sandy's untimely passing. He was a past President of Dellwood and will be missed by all.       
 MISHLER--Jacob. Age 92, retired Judge and former Chief Judge of the United States District Court, Eastern District of New York, died January 26th in West Palm Beach, FL. Judge Mishler was the husband of the late Helen Mishler. He is survived by his children, Dr. Alan Mishler, Susan and Char
 MULLER--Hans G. On January 26, 2004 in Boston. Long time resident of NY until his retirement five years ago. Husband of the late Gertrude, beloved father of Susan and grandfather of Elyse. Well loved by many, he will be greatly missed. Services Friday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Stre
 NEUBERGER--Henry. The Board of Directors and Members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club sadly note the passing of our friend and longstanding past member. Henry's many years with us were marked by his friendship, his smile, his energetic spirit and diligent work on behalf of the club. We extend 
 NEWTON--Helmut. It was an honor to have met Helmut Newton and a true privilege to have shared wonderful moments with him. His photographic work was only part of his greatness; he was kind, funny, a true genius. Helmut will be long missed and forever remembered. We remember him with much lov
 OSTERWEIS--Steven L. The Board of Directors and Officers of Phillips Van Heusen Corporation mourn the passing of our longtime Director and friend, Steven Osterweis, a man of extraordinary integrity and wisdom. His advise and view of the future carried with it a unique combination of histori
 SANI--Ashok C. Beloved son of the late Hemi and the late Chandiram Sani, loving husband of Shalu, devoted father to Suraj and Mohnish, brother to Lal and Asha, Ishwar and Pamela, Dipo and Renuka, Bimla and Ashok Melwani, left for his heavenly abode on Monday, January 26th in New York. He wi
 STERN--Stanley R. On January 24, 2004, our beloved friend and companion for 50 years passed away. Simply stated, Stanley Stern was a man whose loyalty, generosity, kindness and intellect transcended normal human bounds. He found intellectual pursuit the most nourishing of forces, and he saw
 PERLBINDER--Arnold. Each memory is cherished by the family that adores him. Grayce Pearlbinde       
 Crazylegs Hirsch, the Hall of Fame receiver for the Los Angeles Rams' high-powered offenses of the early 1950's, died yesterday at an assisted-living facility in Madison, Wis. He was 80. His death was reported by the University of Wisconsin, where he starred as a halfback in the ear
 J. Folwell Scull Jr., who was headmaster of the Poly Prep Country Day School in Brooklyn from 1949 until 1970, died on Jan. 21 in Medford, N.J., the school announced. He was 98. Mr. Scull was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned a bachelor's degree in 1928, 
 EISEN--Milton E., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. William G. Stein, M.D., President Barry D. Stimmel, M.D. Vice President Elliot J. Ra
 ERLICH--Steven. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi       
 GUTENPLAN--Daniel, Esq. On January 28th, 2004. Beloved husband of Roz for 53 years, devoted father of Susan and Jayne and father-inlaw of Allan and Ed. Poppa D to Eric, Ethan, Gregg and Melanie. Services on Friday, at 11 A.M. at Gutterman's, Boca Raton. Sunday graveside at New Montefiore.  
 KLEIN--Ira E., D.D.S. The Greater New York Academy of Prosthodontics belatedly regrets the passing of Dr. Ira E. Klein, a charter member of the Academy, founded in 1954. He was a distinguished past president, an honored and respected teacher, and a dedicated and devoted family man. His pres
 LANDAU--Rabbi Sol. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Beth David Congregation in Miami and professor of psychology at Auburn University. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched throu
 LEVINE--David S, 88, of Merrick, LI, died January 27. Beloved husband of Ruth for 67 years. Loving father of Kenneth Levine, Janice Hirshon, and the late Robert Levine. Grandsons: Daniel, Michael, Joseph, David. CPA since 1943. 1940 CCNY BBA. Partner Levine, Raphael and Sanders. Lecturer, N
 NEUBERGER--Henry L., 82, Venice, FL, formerly of White Plains, NY, died January 23, 2004. Survivors include his wife, Lillian ''Mickey'', son, Henry III, daughters Joan and Lois, sister, Gloria Marienthal, and six grandchildren. Memorials may be made to the Plantation Community Foundation, 
 RAYNOR--Arnold, 75 years old. Formerly of New York, N.Y., Hemlock Farms, PA, and Great Neck, N.Y., died January 27, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Sandra, father of Daniel (Susan) and Robert (Kathleen), brother of Myron, grandfather of Devon, Zachary, Samantha and Lauren. Graduated from 
 SANI--Ashok C. Beloved son of the late Hemi and the late Chandiram Sani, loving husband of Shalu, devoted father to Suraj and Mohnish, brother to Lal and Asha, Ishwar and Pamela, Dipo and Renuka, Bimla and Ashok Melwani, left for his heavenly abode on Monday, January 26th in New York. He wi
 SHERMAN -- Robert (Bob). Age 74, died peacefully of a stroke on Sunday, January 25th. Survived by beloved wife Mimi, devoted children Ricky (Alisa), Carol (Deivy) and Bruce (Lori). Grandfather to Ryen, Brett, Ilana, Alex, Brandon and Jamie. Bob was an avid tennis player and always viewed hi
 STEELE--William H., aged 76 years, on Sunday, January 25, 2004. He was the son of the late Sally and Paul Vining of West Springfield, MA and the brother of the late Pauline Van Wert of Spruce Head, ME. He attended the Choate School in CT and Yale University. He is survived by and lovingly r
 Jack Sheinkman, the former president of the nation's largest union of clothing workers and a major strategist in one of labor's biggest victories, organizing the textile maker J. P. Stevens, died yesterday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 77. The cause was pneumonia
 Former Cmdr. Lloyd M. Bucher, who commanded the Navy spy ship Pueblo when North Korea seized it in 1968, beginning 11 months of captivity and torture for the crew, died on Wednesday at a hospice in San Diego. He was 76. Mr. Bucher, who was widely known as Pete, his childhood nicknam
 CIRILLO--Nicholas W., 71, of Bedford Village, New York died in Boca Raton, Florida on Thursday, January 29, 2004. He will be deeply missed by his loving wife, Joan. He is also survived by his children: Donna (Ken) Wright, Gregory (Lisa) Cirillo, Nicholas (Marianne) Cirillo, Jr., Paul (Laura
 CONWAY--John Phillips, 19, of Greenwich, CT. Died on January 29, 2004 in Nashville, TN where he was a sophomore at the Vanderbilt University School of Engineering. He died from a sudden fatal heart arrhythmia while visiting a professor. Beloved son of John B. and Patricia Ranlet Conway. Ado
 DEVINE--Joseph Dudley, 77, on January 28, 2004. Beloved father of Christina Devine of Tucson, AZ, Sheila Devine of Puerto Vallarta, Mexico and Joseph Leighton Devine of Amelia Island, FL. Devoted brother of the late Sheila Suarez of Litchfield, Ct. A U.S. Naval veteran of World War II Iwo J
 GUDEFIN--Michel J., 80, on January 26, 2004, after a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of Claire, adored father of Christine and Michael, father-in-law of Manuel Villas-Boas and Gretchen, cherished grandfather of Antonio and Alexandre and caring brother and uncle. His strength and love wil
 GUILLOTON--Alain, passed away on January 25 at the age of 76. He enjoyed close ties to the Village Light Opera Group for over 30 years. He is survived by his children Suzanne, Jacques and Andre; his grandchildren Matthew, Deirdre and Christopher; family members and friends here, in Canada a
 KATZ--Louis. Sutton Place Synagogue records with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime devoted member. Condolences to his beloved Lillian, Phylis and Alex. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President       
 Charles Brown, an actor celebrated for his comic exuberance and dramatic power in plays on Broadway by Samm-Art Williams and August Wilson, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Cleveland. He was 57. The cause was cancer, The Plain Dealer reported. For 17 years Mr. Brown was a stalw
 Egon Mayer, a Hungarian immigrant who became one of the leading sociologists of American Jewry, studying the intricate variety of religious observance and interfaith marriage, died yesterday at his home in Laurel Hollow, N.Y. He was 59. The cause was cancer of the gall bladder said 
 ACIERNO--John L. Died peacefully on January 30, 2004. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. A gifted man who faced all obstacles with grace and dignity, his passing leaves an empty space in many hearts. His generous spirit will live on in all who knew him. The family will receiv
 CONWAY--John Phillips, 19, of Greenwich, CT. Died on January 29, 2004 in Nashville, TN where he was a sophomore at the Vanderbilt University School of Engineering. He died from a sudden fatal heart arrhythmia while visiting a professor. Beloved son of John B. and Patricia Ranlet Conway. Ado
 FUREY--Bertram J. Age 84, of Jupiter, Florida, died on Wednesday, January 28, 2004. Bert attended St. Lawrence University before joining the Royal Canadian Air Force and then the U.S. Air Corps as a bomber pilot. He was shot down while on a night mission and spent 22 months as a prisoner of
 KAPLAN--Jack. On January 28, 2004 in Delray Beach, FL, after a four-year battle with cancer. Survived by his wife Lee Kaplan; daughters Marcy Kaplan of Downers Grove, IL; Debby Kaplan (Francis Keenan) of NY; Cindy Kaplan Rooney (Stephen P. Rooney) of Montclair, NJ; grandson Stephen Charles 
 KLEIN--Charles M. Cherished son of Leonard and Hannah (deceased) Klein. Beloved husband of Pat and brother of Dr. Doris and Dr. Mark Hiatt. Adored father and hero of Dr. Matthew Klein, Alyssa and Eric Maltz and Dayna and Erez Klein, Nancy and Ben Polakoff, Ted and Stacey Eisenhart. Loving g
 MAYER--Dr. Egon, on January 30, at the age of 59. Beloved husband of Marcia Kramer Mayer. Devoted father of Daphne Mayer, Rena Kramer Fox and Danielle Kramer. Loving son of Hedy and the late Eugene Mayer. Dear brother of George. Cherished grandfather of Natalie and Grace. Leading sociologis
 SHEINKMAN--Jack. The administration and board of Amalgamated Bank mourns the death of Jack Sheinkman, former Chairman of the Bank and President of the Amalgamated Closing and Textile Workers Union (now known as UNITE!). An exceptional fighter for labor in the boardroom and on the ground, Mr
 WITKIN--Dr. Ned, 47, of Atlanta, GA, died January 29. Dr. Witkin was a renowned doctor of optometry and low vision specialist who helped the visually impaired regain their independence. He was a researcher and inventor, but most of all, a compassionate clinician. Survived by wife Beverly, a
 Thomas G. Stockham Jr., a pioneer in digital electronics whose work helped to pave the way for the transition from long-playing records to compact discs, died on Jan. 6 in Salt Lake City. He was 70. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Martha, said. An electrical eng
