 Daniel J. Boorstin, a Pulitzer Prize-winning author and social historian who was the librarian of Congress for 12 years, died Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 89 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia, his son David said. Dr. Boorstin
 Dr. Cecil G. Sheps, former director of the Beth Israel hospitals in New York and Boston and founder of a health policy research center, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 90. The cause was pneumonia, said his son, Dr. Samuel Sheps of Vancouver. Dr. Sheps 
 Gant Gaither, a busy Broadway producer in the 1950's who later found his niche as an artist, his first calling, died on Feb. 16 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 86. His death was announced in New York by the Grace Kelly Foundation, of which he was a founder. The fo
 Labe C. Scheinberg, a New York neurologist and educator who helped improve the treatment for multiple sclerosis, died on Feb. 22 at the Lawrence Hospital Center in the Bronx. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Dr. David Scheinberg. In a long ass
 CALDANO -- Daniel. 64, passed away suddenly in his sleep on February 22, 2004. He is survived by his beloved sister Joan Caldano, f.s.p., cousins and many dear and treasured friends. Born and raised in NYC, Dan reveled in every aspect of the city's vibrancy. For 32 years he worked in the Bu
 DUBINSKY--Joseph, M.D. Beloved husband of Louise for 50 years. Proud and loving father of Steven and Leslie. Father-in-law of Dina and Carol, and delighted Poppa of Noah and Liza. A man of wit, wisdom and kindness; an independent spirit who cared deeply for his family, friends, patients and
 GALEF--James Martin. Of Greenwich, CT, died on Thursday, February 26, when the plane he was piloting crashed near Erie, PA. Mr. Galef was 47 years old. He was President of J.M. Galef and Co., a private investment firm he formed in 1985. Mr. Galef was born and raised in NYC. He was active on
 GOEBEL -- Alexander W. Known as Sandy. Of New York City and Amagansett passed away on February 28, 2004, of complications from lymphoma. Beloved husband of Doris Johanson Goebel. Loving father of Alex P. Goebel. Adored brother of Nancy Goebel Rossi. Dear uncle of John Rossi III. Born on Mar
 KREILING -- Frederick C. Ph.D. 81, Professor Emeritus, History of Science, Polytechnic University of New York, on February 29, 2004. He is survived by his wife Jean, a brother George Kreiling of Mattituck, NY, two daughters from a previous marriage, Deborah Kreiling of Hackensack, NJ, and B
 MATLOVSKY--Samuel ''Sandy,'' composer and conductor, died peacefully Tuesday, February 17, at his home in Haverhill, MA. He was 82. At the time of his death, he was working on a play on the life of Galileo. He was the husband of the late Barbara Ellis and his survivors include his daughters
 PALEKAR--Madhukar D. Of Scarsdale, NY, a retired senior United Nations official of 34 years, passed away on February 9, 2003. Funeral services were held at Edwin L. Bennett Funeral Home in Scarsdale on February 13, which would have been his 77th birthday. His ashes were immersed into the At
 SAVEL--Louis Paul. Formerly of LI, NY, died in Ft. Lauderdale, FL, on February 28. He is survived by his wife Doris, his children and grandchildren. Private services were held on March 1.       
 SMITH--Marshall F. 74, of Washington Crossing, PA, on February 29, 2004. Beloved husband of Catherine Kerin Smith. Devoted father of Thomas J. Smith, Kathryn K. Smith, Suzanne Smith Clark and Elizabeth Smith Newton. Also survived by nine grandchildren. A memorial service celebrating his lif
 Walter Perkins, a jazz drummer who played with major artists including Ahmad Jamal and Carmen McRae, and was part of a band in the early 1960's called the MJT +3, died on Feb. 14. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Barbara Perkins. A busy sideman with a str
 Jerome Lawrence, a playwright and theater director whose plays include the classic courtroom drama ''Inherit the Wind,'' died on Sunday at his home in Malibu, Calif., his niece Deborah Robison said. He was 88. With Robert E. Lee, his writing partner of more than 50 years, Mr. Lawren
 CALDANO -- Daniel. 64, passed away suddenly in his sleep on February 22, 2004. He is survived by his beloved sister Joan Caldano, f.s.p., cousins and many dear and treasured friends. Born and raised in NYC, Dan reveled in every aspect of the city's vibrancy. For 32 years he worked in the Bu
 DUCAS--Robert, 67, of New York and Norfolk, CT died peacefully in England on February 26. He is survived by his wife Louise Chinn, his daughter Annoushka Ayton, her husband John and four grandchildren.       
 GALEF--James Martin, 47. With profound sadness we note the tragic, untimely passing of our beloved brother Jim on February 26, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife Kirsten and their children Lily, Ben, Annabelle, Charlotte and James, to whom he was deeply devoted. He is also survived by 
 GOEBEL -- Alexander W. Known as Sandy. Of New York City and Amagansett passed away on February 28, 2004, of complications from lymphoma. Beloved husband of Doris Johanson Goebel. Loving father of Alex P. Goebel. Adored brother of Nancy Goebel Rossi. Dear uncle of John Rossi III. Born on Mar
 LOWENSTEIN -- Sherman. Age 88, of New York and Palm Beach, passed away on February 29th at home after a courageous battle with cancer. Sherman is survived by his wife Lucille, his son Hank, his brother Norman and three grandchildren Vanessa, Helen and David. Services are being held at Frank
 SINGER--Yamie J. A grand man on February 28, 2004, in his 96th year. Wonderful and beloved father of Stephen Sayre Singer, husband of the late Charlotte and good friend of the late Fleur Manning. Graveside services Thursday, 11:30 am, at Sharon Gardens Cemetery.       
 STEVENS--Richard E., 67, after a long illness in Manhattan. A creative and talented designer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, he will long be remembered by his many friends and family for his courage, humor, joy in life, and kindness. An aunt, Maxine Webb; cousins, Rodney and Ralph Webb; 
 SWEEZY--Paul M. (April 10. 1910-February 27, 2004). Economist, journalist, scholar, socialist, Marxist, revolutionary. Founding editor of Monthly Review. President, Monthly Review Foundation. He made words make a difference. We salute him. The directors and staff of Monthly Review: Hyacinth
 Paul M. Sweezy, a Harvard University economist who left academia and became the nation's leading Marxist intellectual and publisher during the cold war and the McCarthy era, died Saturday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter,
 BOORSTIN--Daniel J. On February 28, 2004, of Washington, DC. Beloved husband of Ruth. Father of Paul (Sharon), Jonathan (Leni), and David (Hope). Grandfather of Julia, Eric, Adam, Ariel, Isaac and Rebecca. Services private. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. In lieu of fl
 CLIVE -- Jonathan Miller, Ph.D., 58. Biostatistician Jonathan Clive, longtime director of biostatistical research at the University of Connecticut Health Center, died on Friday after a long illness. Charismatic, mercurial and brilliant, Jon was beloved to family and friends, as well as dist
 COGGESHALL--Dr. Bayard, 87, of Basking Ridge, NJ formerly of Mendham and Morristown in NJ passed away at home Friday, February 27th. He was born in Morristown on Tuesday, June 27, 1916 to the late Murray and Jane (Magor) Coggeshall. He was the husband of Mary S. (Achilles) Coggeshall. Dr. C
 DEANE--Thomas J., born July 23, 1924 in Southampton, NY, died at home in Essex, CT on February 23, 2004. He was a son of the late Mary McDonnell and Francis J. Deane. He served in the Navy in the Pacific during WWII and was a graduate of New York University. He spent his career in contract 
 HUBBARD--David Richardson, of Bloomfield, CT, formerly of West Hartford, CT, died Monday, March 1, 2004. Born in 1916 in Pelham Manor, NY, he was the loving son of the late Allen Skinner Hubbard and Harriet Richardson Hubbard and lived in the Hartford area most of his life. He graduated fro
 KAMINSKY--Leon Lynch. A man of character and unmatched decency for 97 years, 67 of which he shared in love and devotion with his deceased but still-adored wife Bea. Cherished father of Gerry and Marty, father-in-law of Jackie and Nancy, grandfather of Gary, Jenny, Michael and Missy and thei
 LAWRENCE--Jerome. The Dramatists Guild Council mourns the loss of our colleague and fellow Council member Jerome Lawrence. We have no doubt that his work will live forever. Our deepest sympathies to his family. He will be missed. John Weidman, President The Dramatists Guild of America      
 LOWENSTEIN -- Sherman. The Officers, Governors and members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Sherman Lowenstein, on February 29, 2004. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot Executive 
 PORETSKY--Nina. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff in the hospital's Department of Medicine in acknowledging with sorrow the passing of Nina Poretsky, beloved mother of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Leonid Poretsky, M.D., Chief 
 RAFF--Herbert K. Squadron A records with deepest regret the loss of our former President, Herbert K. Raff, on February 22, 2004. His loyalty, wisdom and friendship will always be remembered. Board of Governors       
 SCHNEIDER--Sherman. 73, of Sharon, CT, formerly of New York City. Died peacefully March 1, 2004. Passionate husband of Isabella Bick, devoted father of Leslie, Judith, Steven, and Christopher, and grandfather of Emerson, and brother of Emily and Herbert. A brilliant and inspired architect w
 SCHWARTZ--Arthur (Boy). The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member and first Club President, Arthur Schwartz. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Alece and family. Ted Markson, President       
 STYNES--Brendan J. With profound sadness, we mourn the passing of the steadfastly independent spirit that showed us all how to live and whose strong shoulders supported all of us through our times of need. He was the loving husband of the late Rosalie Barbieri, devoted friend of his late br
 WACHTER--Gary, 65 years old, died on March 1st, 2004. Beloved husband of Irene. Devoted father of Lisa and Andy Lerner and Nancy and Brad Gould. Loving Poppy of Jared, Jason, Carley, Jordan and Peri. Also survived by his father, Ben, and his sister and brother-in-law, Lucy and Ron Isaacson.
 Julius Dixon, a songwriter from the earliest days of rock 'n' roll whose enduring hit ''Lollipop'' was a model of bubble-gum pop, died on Jan. 30 in Manhattan, said his son, Julius Dixson Jr. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Dixon, who was born with the surname Dixson but used 
 Commodore Leroy J. Alexanderson, the last master of the S.S. United States, the fastest Atlantic liner, died on Sunday in Hampton, Va., near the vessel's birthplace, Newport News. He was 93. His death was announced by his son, John Alexanderson of Concord, Mass. Commodore Al
 Meyer Blinder, who with his gold jewelry and extravagant promises became the self-proclaimed king of the nation's penny stock market in the 70's and 80's, died last Thursday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, his son Larry said. He said his father also had
 ADAMSON--Arthur Learoyd II, respected businessman, sailor, sportsman and civic leader, passed away from heart failure following hip surgery on February 2. Lea was 90 years old and lived at his home on the Shrewsbury River in Rumson, NJ. A Princeton Phi Beta Kappa and Harvard Law School grad
 BARTLETT--Amy. The Dalton School community mourns the loss of Amy Bartlett, mother of Byron, Class of 2005. We extend our deepest sympathy to Byron and his family. Ellen C. Stein, Head of School       
 BEHREND -- Bernard, M.D. Died on March 2, at 95, of congestive heart failure in Philadelphia. He was former Medical Director at the Philadelphia Inquirer, and former Director of Occupational Health at Smith, Kline & French. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania Medical School in 
 BOUTWELL--Charles. The Board of Tudor City Greens records with sorrow the loss of Charles Boutwell, a member of our Board since 1994. Charles gave generously of his time and talents adding to the success of our many activities. He will be missed. Board of Directors Tudor City Greens, Inc.  
 BRODY -- Richard Samuel, Ed.D. Devoted and beloved husband of Karen (nee Slavin). Loving father of Rachel and Daniel, father-in-law of Michael and adoring grandfather of baby Alexandra. Dear brother of Miriam and brother-in-law of Isaac, Larry and Leslie. Beloved son of the late Louis & Ann
 FEIERMAN--Reuben. Scarsdale Synagogue - Tremont Temple mourns the loss of its devoted member and Past President. We extend our heart-felt condolences to his wife Alayne Zatulove, his children Michael and Steven, his sister Estelle Shapiro, and the entire family. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Gerr
 GRANATOOR--Jerold Mark, z''l. 72 years old. Died March 3rd, 2004. Beloved husband and best friend of Sylvia (Wollowitz). Adored and adoring father of Rabbi Gary (Marianne) Bretton-Granatoor, Richard (Leslie) Granatoor and Robin (Todd) Rosenfeld. Doting grandfather, Papa Jerry to Samantha, M
 HUGHES--Professor Serge. On February 28, 2004, of Englewood, N.J. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth Anne (Foerch); devoted father of Paul, Colette and Christopher Hughes, adored by his devoted companion, the Reverend Nancy Wright; loving grandfather of Laura, Amanda, Andrea, Juliet and 
 LADENSON--Sam, April 5, 1927-March 2, 2004, in New York City. A prolific artist who worked extensively in collage for many years. He attended the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and later studied at the Ecole des Beaux Arts while stationed in Paris as a Master Sergeant in the Army. His wo
 LAWRENCE--William C., 92, formerly of Stuart, FL on March 1, 2004. A graduate ('33) of the first class of Aeronautical Engineering at Georgia Tech, he went on to become Vice President, Engineering at American Airlines and President of Aerospace Lines in Santa Barbara, CA. His wife, Charlyne
 REYCRAFT--George D. On March 1, 2004 in Miami, Fl. George loved the law, flying, boating and fishing, especially in the Florida Keys and Alaska. But most of all, he loved his wife, Meg Macy Reycraft, his stepchildren Mary Grace and Christian Macy, his seven children George, Tom, Thaddeus, A
 RIESSMAN -- Frank. Died March 1, 2004. As a Social Psychologist, he wrote a number of books on social class and poverty in the US and was the Editor of Social Policy Magazine. Survived by wife Julia, daughters Robin and Janet, son Jeffrey and two grandchildren. He will be deeply missed by h
 Albert Axelrod, a champion fencer and one of the few Americans of his era to achieve success in international competition in the sport, died on Feb. 24 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, said Eric Rosenberg, president of the Fencers C
 ADAMSON--Arthur Learoyd II, respected businessman, sailor, sportsman and civic leader, passed away from heart failure following hip surgery on February 2. Lea was 90 years old and lived at his home on the Shrewsbury River in Rumson, NJ. A Princeton Phi Beta Kappa and Harvard Law School grad
 BEHREND -- Bernard, M.D. Died on March 2, at 95, of congestive heart failure in Philadelphia. He was former Medical Director at the Philadelphia Inquirer, and former Director of Occupational Health at Smith, Kline & French. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania Medical School in 
 BENJAMIN -- Emily (nee Stein). The Board and staff of F.E.G.S. note with sorrow the passing of Emily Benjamin, mother, grandmother, wife of Jack C. Benjamin and beloved sister of Joseph Stein, Jr., chair and president of F.E.G.S. Mrs. Benjamin was active with Temple Sinai in New Orleans, wh
 BIER--Professor Lionel D., 61, died March 4, 2004. Son of the late Judy and Max Bier, he taught art history at Brooklyn College for more than three decades. Survived by brother Ronald G. Bier of Emeryville, CA and fiancee Maria Aurenhammer of Vienna, Austria. Memorial serivce will be held i
 DELMAN--Perry. Of Boca Raton, FL. Devoted and beloved husband for 50 years of Geraldine. Loving father of Robert and Scott. Adoring grandfather of Edward, Jeffrey, Jonathan and Rebecca. Dear brother of Alan Nudelman. Former Chief Executive Officer of Delco International Ltd., a leading impo
 DUNLAP -- Joseph Riggs. Died March 1, 2004 on Morningside Heights at the age of 91. Born Weishien, China February 8, 1913. BA College of Wooster (1936). BS in Library Service (1937), MA in Medieval History (1943), Doctor of Library Service (1972), all from Columbia University. Member, City 
 GRANATOOR--Jerold Mark, z''l. 72 years old. Died March 3rd, 2004. Beloved husband and best friend of Sylvia (Wollowitz). Adored and adoring father of Rabbi Gary (Marianne) Bretton-Granatoor, Richard (Leslie) Granatoor and Robin (Todd) Rosenfeld. Doting grandfather, Papa Jerry to Samantha, M
 NOBLE--Norman J., 73, formerly of Bronxville, NY, died March 2. He leaves his wife Ellen of 50 years, two sons, two daughters and three granddaughters. A Memorial Service will be held Saturday, March 20 at 11AM at Portsmouth Abbey, Cory's Lane, Portsmouth, RI.       
 PAPERTSIAN--Harry Levon, February 25, 2004, of Riverdale, NY, son of Hagop and Olive Papertsian. WW II veteran who dedicated his life to the mentally disabled. Survived by his wife Joyce and children Harry Andre, Lisa, Michelle, Matthew and Mark. Memorial service at Dobbs Ferry Lutheran Chu
 ROBERTS--Richard J. On March 4, 2004. Beloved husband of Roberta. Devoted father of Robin and Dennis, Randi and Iven and Rhonda and Matthew. Loving brother of Joyce Popiel. Caring nephew of Muriel Brinn. Cherished grandfather of Kyle, Jonathan, Katherine, Olivia and Lawrence. Services Frida
 SOKOL--Irving. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member Irving Sokol and extends heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Florence and his family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Linda Altman, President Rabbi Charles A. Klein       
 Stephen Sprouse, the American fashion designer and artist who in the early 1980's pioneered that decade's revolutionary idea of mixing uptown sophistication in clothing with a downtown punk and pop sensibility, died yesterday morning at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 50.      
 George Dewey Reycraft, a leading Wall Street litigator of complex corporate tangles and a former trustbuster for the Justice Department, died on Monday in Miami. A resident of Key Largo, Fla., he was 79 and formerly lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y. His death was announced by his daughter
 Jorge Guinle, one of the last of the millionaire playboys whose free-spending ways and romantic exploits made them global celebrities from the 1930's onward, died early Friday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 88 years old and died in a suite at the luxurious Copacabana Palace Hotel, which his fami
 Marc L. Miringoff, a professor who invented an index to better understand the nation's social health, died Thursday night at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 58. The cause has not been determined, said his wife, Marque Miringoff. Dr. Miringoff, an associate professor of
 DELMAN--Perry. We mourn the passing of Perry Delman and extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wonderful and loving family. Shapiro Lobel LLP       
 DRAZEN--Martin, 85, formerly of Armonk, NY, passed away after a long illness in Jupiter, FL on March 4, 2004. A graduate of NYU with a Doctor of Laws and a Master of Laws in taxation former Senior Partner of McCarthy, Fingar, Donovan, Drazen & Smith in White Plains, Past President of the We
 DUNLAP -- Joseph Riggs. Died March 1, 2004 on Morningside Heights at the age of 91. Born Weishien, China February 8, 1913. BA College of Wooster (1936). BS in Library Service (1937), MA in Medieval History (1943), Doctor of Library Service (1972), all from Columbia University. Member, City 
 LUBOTTA--Jack. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Jack Lubotta, and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Constance, and other members of his family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 MAZZUCCA--Michael Lawrence, of Valley Cottage, NY, passed away Thursday, March 4, 2004 at the age of 60. Born in NYC on June 6, 1943, he was the son of Michael Alexander and Viola Piccolino Mazzucca. Mr. Mazzucca married Mary Driscoll on June 26, 1965 at St. Barnabas Church, Bronx, NY. He w
 SNYDER--Abe. His compassion, his good nature, his sensitivity and most importantly his devotion to his family inspired his colleagues, his friends and everyone who knew him. Our family has lost a good friend. Harriet and Ed Levine Alison and Chris Testrake SNYDER--Abe. CRC Insurance
 Pedro Pietri, a poet and playwright who chronicled the joys and struggles of Nuyoricans -- urban Puerto Ricans whose lives straddle the islands of Puerto Rico and Manhattan -- died on Wednesday en route from Mexico to New York. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Pietri had been a
 Norval Morris, long a prominent criminologist at the University of Chicago, former dean of its law school and a strong voice for criminal justice reform, died Feb. 21 in Chicago. He was 80 and lived in the city's Hyde Park neighborhood, near the campus. He collapsed after dinner at 
 ANNINGER--Victor, 92, died peacefully in Vienna, Austria on February 23, 2004. Beloved father and father-in-law of Thomas and Anne Anninger of Cambridge, MA, and stepfather of Constance Schwartz Harris of New York City. He is also survived by his loving grandchildren, Stefan, William and hi
 BIER--Professor Lionel D., 61, died March 4, 2004. Son of the late Judy and Max Bier, he taught art history at Brooklyn College for more than three decades. Survived by brother Ronald G. Bier of Emeryville, CA and fiancee Maria Aurenhammer of Vienna, Austria. Memorial serivce will be held i
 BOUTWELL--Charles Albert, 63. Interior Architect of Manhattan, NY died Tuesday, March 2, 2004 in his home in Tudor City. Born in Troy, AL on November 28, 1940 his parents were the late Ned F. Boutwell and Beryl Clower Boutwell McBride of Greenville, AL. He attended Auburn University and gra
 BROMBERG -- Morton I., D.D.S., 69, Newburgh, NY, and Boca Raton, on February 28. He is survived by his wife Beverly, his children Michele, Keira, Marc and his grandchildren Lila and Reid. We will miss his spirit, humor and zest for life. He was the true patriarch of our loving family       
 CARMEL -- Herman, Ph.D. Scholar, Rabbi, Professor, Author. Died in NYC February 27, aged 94. Husband of Ida of blessed memory. His love, friendship, humor and dignity will be missed by his family and the granddaughters on whom he doted, Rina, Abigail, and Joanna. Donations may be sent to Ma
 CASEY--John L. Jr., author of business ethics and managing director of the investment firm Scudder, Stevens & Clark, died on February 9, 2004 at 80. Born in Medford, MA, the son of Ruth Jones Casey and John Louis Casey, Sr., Jack graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Law School, served
 DRAZEN--Martin. We express our sincere condolences to our dear friends Karen and Marty Berger on the passing of Karen's father. Martin's kindness of spirit, generosity and legacy will live on through all whose lives he touched. Our hearts and love go out to the entire family. Roberta and Ri
 FORREST--Chester S. On March 3, 2004. Beloved husband of Shirley. Loving father, grandfather and greatgrandfather. An extraordinary man who enriched everyone's lives he touched. Funeral private.       
 GREENSPAN--Dr. Richard Henry died on February 28th. He had been Professor of Radiology and Chairman of the Radiology Department at Yale University School of Medicine for many years and retired in 1999. He was a greatly respected teacher and mentor, the recipient of numerous teaching awards.
 JAENIKE -- John R., MD ''Jack''. Passed away at age 78 on March 3, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife of 57 years, Betty Jane ''BJ'' (Anderson) Jaenike; children John R. Jaenike, Jr. (Liz) of Rochester, NY, Paul G. Jaenike (Kay) of Morehead City, NC, and Sarah J. Demo (Bill) of Ithaca,
 LEVIN -- Peter R. The Trustees and Staff of The New York Hall of Science extend their deepest sympathies to his wife, Alice N. Levin, his son, Roy, and family as they mourn the loss of Peter, our founding Trustee and longtime leader. He will be missed. Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman Alan J. Frie
 MAZZUCCA--Michael Lawrence, of Valley Cottage, NY, passed away Thursday, March 4, 2004 at the age of 60. Born in NYC on June 6, 1943, he was the son of Michael Alexander and Viola Piccolino Mazzucca. Mr. Mazzucca married Mary Driscoll on June 26, 1965 at St. Barnabas Church, Bronx, NY. He w
 MINES -- Herbert. Herbert Mines died peacefully on March 5, 2004, after a long illness. He is loved and will be missed by his wife Barbara, his daughter Susan, and his grandchildren Laicy and Larry. He had a long and successful career in human resources and administration beginning at Macy'
 PRIOR--Donald L. of North Plainfield, NJ, past president of Prior Chemical Corporation, died March 4th. Born July 30, 1914, Mr. Prior grew up in Brooklyn and Scarsdale, NY. He was a graduate of Scarsdale High School and Pratt Institute. He had wide ranging interests and was an avid collecto
 REYCRAFT--George D. On March 1, 2004 in Miami, Fl. George loved the law, flying, boating and fishing, especially in the Florida Keys and Alaska. But most of all, he loved his wife, Meg Macy Reycraft, his stepchildren Mary Grace and Christian Macy, his seven children George, Tom, Thaddeus, A
 RIESSMAN -- Frank. Died March 1, 2004. As a Social Psychologist, he wrote a number of books on social class and poverty in the US and was the Editor of Social Policy Magazine. Survived by wife Julia, daughters Robin and Janet, son Jeffrey and two grandchildren. He will be deeply missed by h
 SINGER--Rabbi Dr. Joseph I. Beloved husband of the late Rebecca Heller Singer. Loving father of Alexander T., Linda Singer and Vivian S. Singer. Adoring grandfather of Glen Eric and Jason Evan. Devoted brother of the late Sophie Lewis. Rabbi of Manhattan Beach Jewish Center since 1947, and 
 SMITH -- Dr. William E. 1914-2004. Princeton '34, MD Johns Hopkins. Worked at Rockefeller Institute, SloanKettering, NYU. Fairleigh Dickinson Health Research Institute Director. Using PCNU with an analog of Vitamin A (Ro10 - 9359) he achieved cures of lung cancers induced in mice by asbesto
 SNYDER--Abe. His compassion, his good nature, his sensitivity and most importantly his devotion to his family inspired his colleagues, his friends and everyone who knew him. Our family has lost a good friend. Harriet and Ed Levine Alison and Chris Testrake SNYDER--Abe. CRC Insurance
 SPROUSE--Stephen. The law firm of Stout & Thomas mourns the loss of Stephen Sprouse, friend and client. All who worked with him will miss his creative genius, brilliant wit, kind heart and high intellect. Michael Ward Stout John Charles Thomas Eric R. Johnson       
 WHITE--Irving, 94, of Englewood, NJ, passed away March 3, 2004. Deeply loved and mourned by his family.       
 Dr. Fred Brown, a virologist who studied foot-and-mouth disease in cattle and later led in the development of early vaccines and methods to test for the disease, died on Feb. 20 in his home in Guildford, England. He was 79. The death was confirmed by Dr. Thomas G. Burrage, a colleag
 J. Beverley Oke, an astronomer who developed ways to analyze light from faint, fast-receding heavenly bodies billions of light-years away to help answer fundamental cosmological questions, died Tuesday at his home in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 75. The cause was heart failure
 ANNINGER--Victor, 92, died peacefully in Vienna, Austria on February 23, 2004. Beloved father and father-in-law of Thomas and Anne Anninger of Cambridge, MA, and stepfather of Constance Schwartz Harris of New York City. He is also survived by his loving grandchildren, Stefan, William and hi
 GOLOD--Ervin H. On March 6, 2004. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, col league and friend. Longtime resident of Edgemont, NY, retired Senior VP of Israel Discount Bank, NY. Ervin is survived by his wife Ann, children Gabrielle and David, son-in-law Seth, and his grandson Lee. Funeral wi
 MAZZUCCA--Michael Lawrence, of Valley Cottage, NY, passed away Thursday, March 4, 2004 at the age of 60. Born in NYC on June 6, 1943, he was the son of Michael Alexander and Viola Piccolino Mazzucca. Mr. Mazzucca married Mary Driscoll on June 26, 1965 at St. Barnabas Church, Bronx, NY. He w
 MINES--Herbert. On March 5, 2004. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, 1 pm, at Larchmont Temple. Contributions should be to the charity of your choice, or to the American Jewish Committee, 165 E. 56th St, NY, NY 10022. MINES--Herbert. The Board of Governors and Members of Hampshi
 SINGER--Rabbi Dr. Joseph I. The residents, Board and staff of Menorah Home & Hospital note with sorrow the passing of Rabbi Singer. He served with great distinction as a member of the Board of Directors of Menorah Home & Hospital. We will all sorely miss his wise, kind and gentle nature. Ou
 STONE -- Sanford Herbert. Scientist, professor, WWII soldier, loving husband and father, dedicating his life to public service, health and wellbeing of all people, died at home in Mt. Airy, MD, December 23, 2003, at 82. Dr. Stone (Sandy), immunologist at NIH for 40 years, and professor for 
 TRUESON--John V., Sr. 89, on March 5, 2004, of Garden City, NY. Beloved husband of Theresa. Cherished father of Elizabeth, John, Barbara and Carolyn. WWII veteran. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave at 12th St, Garden City, Monday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial St. Jo
 WOLFF--Rabbi Ephraim. We mourn the loss of our friend and Rav through 40 years of simchas and sorrow. May his family be comforted by his memory amongst the mourners of Zion and Jersusalem. The Braun Family       
 Val Pinchbeck Jr., a former National Football League broadcasting executive, died Saturday night after collapsing and being struck by a taxi while crossing a street in Manhattan, a police spokesman, Detective Noel Waters, said. Mr. Pinchbeck, who had been at the league's Midtown off
 William R. Stewart, an expert in labor law and a former chief counsel of the National Labor Relations Board, died Feb. 16 in Washington. He was 71. The cause was organ failure, said his brother Stanley. Mr. Stewart joined the legal staff of the labor board in 1963 after havi
 A body that surfaced in the East River on Sunday was identified by the city medical examiner yesterday as that of Spalding Gray, the confessional monologuist and actor who disappeared two months ago. The cause of death had not yet been determined, but the police were investigating r
 BROWN--Oren L. The Juilliard School mourns the death of Oren Brown, a distinguished member of our voice faculty from 1972-1991. With dignity, erudition and grace, Oren prepared generations of singers for successful participation in the profession. We send our deepest condolences to his fami
 CHEN--Chin, age 76, of Bayside, NY, died on March 5, 2004 after a brief illness. Dr. Chen was a Professor of Marine Biology at Western Connecticut State University until his retirement in 1993. He will be greatly missed by his family and friends. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to
 EAGAN -- Joseph T., 85, passed away March 7, 2004. Beloved husband of Margaret for 64 years. Devoted father to Ann Marie, Philip and Claire. Loving father-inlaw to Marjorie and Tony. Cherished grandfather of Nick and Claire, Joseph, Tony, Zeke and Gregory. Dear brother to Rita. His generous
 GOLOD -- Ervin. Scarsdale Synagogue-Tremont Temple mourns the loss of its long time member and extends deepest sympathy to his wife Ann, his children, Gabrielle and David, his son-in-law Seth, and the entire family. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Gerry Cohen, President       
 GRIGGS--Henry Little, Jr. ''Harry''. Died March 6, 2004 at age 78. Survived by his loving wife Barbara L. Griggs; children Henry, Elisabeth and Peter Griggs; step-daughters Penny Kjellberg and Pamela Blumberg, brother Thomas S. Griggs, Sr.; grandchildren Cornelia and William Griggs; step-gr
 LOWENTHAL--Walter. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of our distinguished member, Mr. Walter Lowenthal, husband of our member, Mrs. Randie Lowenthal, and father of our members, Eduard and Paul Lowenthal. May the entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Ber
 REINER--Dr. Leopold, on March 7, 2004, at the age of 93. Beloved husband of the late Lillian Reiner. Brother of Bella Federman. Loving aunt and great aunt of Lydia, James, Robert, and Laurie Nolan; Doris, Stephen and Donald Young; David Siegel, Janet Kaplan, Ruth Bletzinger, Michael Federma
 WOLF--Ephraim, Rabbi, Dr. The Great Neck Synagogue community mourns the loss of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus, Ephraim Wolf. Rabbi Wolf was the founder of the modern orthodox community in Great Neck and served as its leader for more than 30 years. It was his vision that enabled our community a
 Paul Winfield, an actor known for his versatility and power in stage, film and television roles that included a highly praised televised portrayal of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1978 and an Oscar-nominated part in ''Sounder'' in 1972, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 62.    
 John Henry Williams, who sent the body of his father, Ted Williams, the Boston Red Sox Hall of Famer, to be frozen at an Arizona cryonics laboratory, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 35. The cause was leukemia, his lawyer, Peter Sutton, said. Mr. William
 ALPER--Owen Hill. March 9, 2004. Husband of Shellie. Beloved father of David Hill Alper and his wife Susan and Ellyn Somers Schoen and her husband Bruce. Cherished grandfather of Justine, Jason and Evan. Devoted son of the late Sigfried Somers Alper and the late Ethyl Goldstein Alper. He wi
 BROWN--Oren L. The Juilliard School mourns the death of Oren Brown, a distinguished member of our voice faculty from 1972-1991. With dignity, erudition and grace, Oren prepared generations of singers for successful participation in the profession. We send our deepest condolences to his fami
 EAGAN -- Joseph T., 85, passed away March 7, 2004. Beloved husband of Margaret for 64 years. Devoted father to Ann Marie, Philip and Claire. Loving father-inlaw to Marjorie and Tony. Cherished grandfather of Nick and Claire, Joseph, Tony, Zeke and Gregory. Dear brother to Rita. His generous
 GOLOD--Ervin H. The management and staff of Israel Discount Bank of New York are deeply saddened by the pasing of Ervin H. Golod, Senior Vice President, who retired 4 years ago after many years of dedicated service to the Bank and its customers. Erv was a beloved, decent man and the consumm
 GOTTFRIED--Ted M. Age 75. Died March 7, 2004. A lifelong New Yorker, he was the author of over 100 books ranging from racy adult fiction to young adult non-fiction, including a notable series on the Holocaust. He worked for social justice, first in the civil rights and anti-war movements, r
 GRAY--Spalding. The Artists, Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are saddened and mourn the departure of Spalding Gray from the fellowship of this theater. Spalding was an original, who left an indelible mark on his comrades and his audience. Our hearts go out to Kathy, Forrest, Theo 
 GRIGGS--Henry Little, Jr. ''Harry''. Died March 6, 2004 at age 78. Survived by his loving wife Barbara L. Griggs; children Henry, Elisabeth and Peter Griggs; step-daughters Penny Kjellberg and Pamela Blumberg, brother Thomas S. Griggs, Sr.; grandchildren Cornelia and William Griggs; step-gr
 LENS--Karl G., 76, of Hackensack, NJ, formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ. Survived by his beloved wife Shirley, loving children Jack and Valerie Lens, and Robin and Arthur Silverman, cherished grandchildren Jessica, Amanda, Corey and David. Services are Thursday, 11:00 AM at Robert Schoem's Menorah 
 LOVELACE--Richard S. Age 86. Naval Architect. Born in Baltimore, MD. June 21, 1917. Died February 29, 2004 at Essex, CT., after a long illness. Princeton 1940, MIT B.S., 1942. WWII Naval Reserve Officer as MIT Instructor, Naval Architecture and Pearl Harbor Submarine Salvage Director. With 
 MATTIA--Louis. Known from 1960 to 1995 for his antique light fixtures at his Second Ave. store, Mr. Mattia died peacefully at age 87 in his Manhattan apartment on Sunday, March 7. Friends may call at Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Avenue, Thursday, March 11, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Memorial service
 O'HANLON--Thomas J. Died peacefully at his home in Greenwich, CT on March 8 after a brave battle with cancer. His beloved daughter Isolde O'Hanlon of Manhattan, his long time companion Jean Conwell and her children Jennifer, Kelly and Brian and his former wife Grainne O'Hanlon, survive him.
 QUADROZZI--John, born August 18, 1928, the son of a Blacksmith. Starting his life, he swung his father's hammer as he learned the trade of a steel man. Most noting his physical stature said he was the Man of Steel. His repertoire expanded to truck building and mechanics. However in 1964, Jo
 RASKIN--George I. 85 years old. Died on March 8, 2004. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend. Services Thursday 12 noon at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza (opposite LIRR), Great Neck, NY. Interment immediately following at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, N
 RIKER--Walter, MD. The Department of Anesthesiology of The New York Presbyterian Hospital-Weill Cornell Medical College is saddened by the loss of Walter Riker. Through his many years as Chairman of the Department of Pharmacology at the Cornell Medical College, Dr. Riker was a dear, highly 
 SHEPS--Cecil G., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Dr. Cecil G. Sheps, who served with great distinction as the General Director of Beth Israel from 1965 
 STONE -- Sanford Herbert. December 23, 2003, at 82. He leaves bereaved wife Audrey Larack Stone, sons Andrew, Leland and Roger, their wives Barbara and Christine, and three grandchildren. A memorial gathering for Sandy will be held March 14, 2004, in Plaza Room, 777 United Nations Plaza, NY
 WEIHS--Kurt. We mourn the loss of a great man, a pioneering designer and art director, as well as an immensely powerful painter and sculptor. His design oeuvre is remarkable, including the actual design of the CBS Eye as the master designer in the Bill Golden atelier at CBS Television, and 
 George E. Pake, a physicist who assembled a team of extraordinary computer researchers while serving as the first director of the Palo Alto Research Center of the Xerox Corporation, died last Thursday at his home in Tucson. He was 79. The cause was multiple system failure, said his 
 Marshall Frady, a political diarist of the South in transition and the author of a widely read biography of Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenville, S.C. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. Formerly a resident of New York an
 ALPER--Owen Hill. March 9, 2004. Husband of Shellie. Beloved father of David Hill Alper and his wife Susan and Ellyn Somers Schoen and her husband Bruce. Cherished grandfather of Justine, Jason and Evan. Devoted son of the late Sigfried Somers Alper and the late Ethyl Goldstein Alper. He wi
 AUERBACH -- William, of New Rochelle, passed away Tuesday, March 9, 2004. He was 89 years old. Mr. Auerbach was the devoted husband of the late Tess Auerbach, who predeceased him in 1992. He is survived by his loving children Sue, Allen and Melissa, and five grandchildren. Funeral services 
 GOTTFRIED--Ted M. Age 75. Died March 7, 2004. A lifelong New Yorker, he was the author of over 100 books ranging from racy adult fiction to young adult non-fiction, including a notable series on the Holocaust. He worked for social justice, first in the civil rights and anti-war movements, r
 KEATINGE -- Kenneth George. Age 85, passed away Saturday, March 6, 2004. He is survived by his brother Jerry, his sister Elizabeth, his son Richard and his cherished grandchildren Margaret and William. He was a life long animal lover and donations in his memory may be made to The Beath Anim
 KLEIN--Jack. 95, recently of Amityville, died peacefully at his home with his children at his side. Devoted father to Joan Tell, Neal and wife Cyla, his grandchildren David Reader, Cheryl and Don Freund, Jeffrey and Cara, Michael, Jonathan and Alan, and his great-grandchildren, Jacqui, Kell
 SCHUSTER--Jack. It is with deep sorrow that we announce the passing of our member, Jack Schuster and we extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Doris, and family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 STOLER--Jean. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the passing of the mother of our good friend, Michael R. Stoler, a past chairman of our Men's Division and a current member of its executive board. To Michael and his family, we extend our deep sympa
 WERBIN--Milton N. Died on March 10, 2004 at the age of 89. He leaves behind his bereaved wife Ann (nee Lichten), daughter Karen Eckert, son-in-law David, and grandchildren Aaron and Sari. He was also the loving father of the late Jeremy. Before his retirement he was Chief Airport Meterologi
 WOLANSKY--Dr. Oleh M., 89, of Kerhonkson, NY. He was born April 15, 1914, in Ukraine, the son of the late Pavlo and Haylna Vytvytska Wolansky. Dr. Wolansky had been employed as a psychiatrist for the New York State Dept. of Mental Hygiene as a hospital administrator and served as Director o
 WOLF--Rabbi Dr. Ephraim. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a most cherished friend. Rabbi Wolf's love for the Jewish people and his lifelong tireless efforts on their behalf will endure as an inspirational legacy. May his dear family be comforted among the mourn
 CASEY--John L. Jr., author of business ethics and managing director of the investment firm Scudder, Stevens & Clark, died on February 9, 2004 at 80. Born in Medford, MA, the son of Ruth Jones Casey and John Louis Casey, Sr., Jack graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Law School, served
 CHAPIN--Melville. The Board of Trustees, Trustees Emeriti and the entire Phillips Academy community in Andover, Massachusetts express deepest sympathy at the death of Melville Chapin, Trustee Emeritus. A member of the Class of 1936, he was president of the Board of Trustees from 1980-89 and
 DiSTEFANO--April. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of our distinguished member Mr. Jesse Salsberg. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 GOLDSMITH--Lawrence C., 87, of Fairfax, VT, died at home March 7. Artist, author of ''Watercolor Bold and Free,'' and watercolor teacher to hundreds, he is survived by his wife Lynda, his sister Helen Grunebaum of NYC, his sister Lucille Roland of Abington, PA, his son Paul, daughter-in-law
 LIMATO -- Frank. Beloved father of agent Ed Limato died on March 10, 2004. He was 94. He is survived by his wife of 77 years, Angelina. Friends may call the funeral home on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday from 4-8pm. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Monday March 15th at St. Peter and
 MAHER -- Edward John ''Ned''. Of Wilton, CT, formerly of Bayside, NY on March 8. Predeceased by his beloved wife, Lillian. Cherished father of Jayne (Don) Weitz, Judith Frederic, Beth Maher, and Ned Jr. (Lisa) Maher. Loving grandfather of Craig, Matthew, Leah and Kelsey. World War II U.S. A
 MINDLIN--Michael Jr. Entertainment industry veteran of New York and Los Angeles, died Sunday, March 7th. Son of Michael and Betty Mindlin, devoted brother of Barbara Lichter and the late Constance Hartman. Loving husband, uncle, and godfather. Served in the Army Air Force in World War II. H
 RIVA--Frank. The Board of Directors, staff, membership and participants of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children, New York City Chapter, wish to convey their condolences to the family of Frank Riva, one of the founders of the Association, and longtime member. Frank, You remain i
 BRAUNSTEIN--Irving. March 12, 1969. 35 years. One dies only when he is no longer remembered by those still here.       
 Russell F. Weigley, a leading American military historian who had an affinity for chronicling complex wars and strategies, died on March 3 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Emma, said. Dr. Weigley (pronounced WY-glee), a retired 
 Coleridge-Taylor Perkinson, a composer, conductor and pianist who combined styles from the classics to jazz to create sonatas, concertos and symphonies as well as scores for movies and television, died on Tuesday in Chicago. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Rosita M. Sands, dir
 Dr. Ewald W. Busse, an early leader in the field of geriatric psychiatry and a founder of the Center for Aging and Human Development at Duke University, died on Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C., said his daughter Barbara Busse. He was 86. Dr. Busse was chairman of the psychiatry d
 Grant C. Gentry, an executive who built a reputation for reviving failing supermarket companies, including the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company and Food Fair, died March 4 at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif, where he had a winter home. He was 79 and lived in Park Ridge, Ill.       
 CHAIT--Irving L., on March 12, 2004. The family and friends of Irving L. Chait are deeply saddened by his passing. Professional engineer and graduate of The Cooper Union. Devoted husband to Frieda for more than 60 years. Services to be held Sunday, 1:30PM, at Gutterman's, 175 Long Beach Roa
 FORSTER--Louis P. Jr. 93. Cornwall, PA. Formerly of New York City. Died March 11, 2004 in Cornwall Manor. Retired Associate Editor of the New Yorker Magazine. 1933 graduate of Harvard. Member of Harvard Club of New York City. Last of family. Survived by friends, Douglas and Joan Fenwick, Ri
 GRAF--Rudolf F., age 77 years young, beloved husband of Bettina (Knisbacher); loved father of Jeffrey (and Roberta) Graf, Debbie (and Mark) Berman; adored Popsi of Allison, Sheryl, Daniel, David, Russell and Scott. A Holocaust survivor from Vienna, Austria. A graduate of Polytechnic Univers
 LEWIS--Sherman R. Jr., on March 11, 2004, at age 67. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of Thomas, Catherine, Elizabeth and Michael and grandfather of Olivia and Riley. Dear brother of Robin and Randal. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday 2
 LIMATO -- Frank. Beloved father of agent Ed Limato died on March 10, 2004. He was 94. He is survived by his wife of 77 years, Angelina. Friends may call the funeral home on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday from 4-8pm. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Monday March 15th at St. Peter and
 OSLER--Abraham G. May 16, 1911-March 10, 2004. Son of immigrant parents, Max and Fanny Osofsky. Born in NYC, grew up on the lower east side and then Brooklyn. Graduated from DeWitt Clinton HS. BA from CCNY 1931; M.Sc 1933 and Ph.D. 1948 in Bacteriology from Columbia University. During the 1
 STONE -- Sanford Herbert. Scientist, professor, WWII soldier, loving husband and father, dedicating his life to public service, health and wellbeing of all people, died at home in Mt. Airy, MD, December 23, 2003, at 82. Dr. Stone (Sandy), immunologist at NIH for 40 years, and professor for 
 SUTHERLAND--Dr. George L. Died March 10, 2004. He was 81. Research chemist and community leader. George had a long and successful career with American Cyanamid Company, retiring as VP Director of Research and Development, Lederle Labs. George was very active in the Rockland County community
 Frank Riessman, a social psychologist and founding editor of the journal Social Policy, who stressed the importance of self-help as an agent of social and political change, died in Manhattan on March 1. He was 79. He was at a nursing home, suffering from Parkinson's disease and diab
 Gene Allison, whose groundbreaking 1957 rhythm-and-blues hit, ''You Can Make It if You Try,'' was a precursor of 1960's soul music and was recorded by the Rolling Stones on their debut album in 1964, died here on March 6. He was 69. The cause was kidney and liver failure, his brothe
 BJORGE--James R. Died January 30. Survived by his sister Margaret B. Adams, Santa Barbara, CA. Graduate of US Naval Academy 1948-A; Yale Law School 1953. Director of International Choral Festivals, Lincoln Center. Memorial Service March 26th, 5:30 PM, the Yale Club. Funeral service April 19
 BREGMAN--Martin A. Of Pinehurst, NC, formerly of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, died on March 12, 2004, at the age of 90. He is survived by his beloved wife of 50 years Kathryn Rettew, his devoted daughter Ann (James) Magee, his cherished grandaughter Melanie (Samir) Saigol and his adoring greatgr
 CHAIT--Irving L., on March 12, 2004. The family and friends of Irving L. Chait are deeply saddened by his passing. Professional engineer and graduate of The Cooper Union. Devoted husband to Frieda for more than 60 years. Services to be held Sunday, 1:30PM, at Gutterman's, 175 Long Beach Roa
 GRAF--Rudolf F., age 77 years young, beloved husband of Bettina (Knisbacher); loved father of Jeffrey (and Roberta) Graf, Debbie (and Mark) Berman; adored Popsi of Allison, Sheryl, Daniel, David, Russell and Scott. A Holocaust survivor from Vienna, Austria. A graduate of Polytechnic Univers
 HILTON--Marilyn. The members of The Waldorf=Astoria Distinguished Alumni wish to extend our deepest sympathies to Barron Hilton and family upon learning of the passing of his lovely wife Marilyn. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Hilton family at this time. John G. Flynn, Chairman The W
 HIRSCH--Chester A. Of Palm Springs, California, passed away peacefully in his sleep, on March 12, 2004, 19 days into his 98th year. Former resident of Deal, NJ, and New York City. Survived by three sons, Edward (DiAnne), John (Elizabeth) and Richard; grandchildren Douglas Hirsch, Karen Gelf
 LEWIS--Sherman R., Jr., 67 of Manhattan, New York, died March 11, 2004. Mr. Lewis was a vice chairman and international investment banker at Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Throughout his 30-year career at Lehman Brothers, he held numerous senior positions, including partner in the Corporate
 LIMATO -- Frank. Beloved father of agent Ed Limato died on March 10, 2004. He was 94. He is survived by his wife of 77 years, Angelina. Friends may call the funeral home on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday from 4-8pm. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Monday March 15th at St. Peter and
 LOWRY--Bates. Art historian, museum director, folk art and photography collector, of Boston, MA, died March 12, 2004, at the age of 80, three months after the death of his wife of 57 years, Isabel Barrett. He is survived by his two daughters, Anne Klonsky of Chicago, and Patricia Lowry of B
 MECZ--Leopold, M.D., on March 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Sidonie for 63 years. Dear father of Adrian and his wife Jane. Adored grandfather of Karen and Elizabeth. Cherished friend and relative of Lucille Meidler, Arthur and Carola Rowe. Services Monday March 15, 11:30am, at ''The Riversid
 NATHANIEL--George S. Born 86 years ago today in Baghdad, Iraq, died on January 4, 2004 of complications following a broken hip. His family moved during his adolescence to Tehran, Iran where he eventually attended the American University. Sponsored by his American professor, George left all 
 OSLER--Abraham G. May 16, 1911-March 10, 2004. Son of immigrant parents, Max and Fanny Osofsky. Born in NYC, grew up on the lower east side and then Brooklyn. Graduated from DeWitt Clinton HS. BA from CCNY 1931; M.Sc 1933 and Ph.D. 1948 in Bacteriology from Columbia University. During the 1
 PAGNANELLA -- Dominic. March 12. World War II veteran. Devoted and loving husband of the late Frances. Beloved father of Joseph, Carol and Louis. Loving father-inlaw of Teresa, Jay and Janet. Father, your courage and strength will be the inpsiration that guides us for the rest of our lives.
 ROSKIN--Jules Jay. 95, businessman, art collector and interior designer died Tuesday, March 9, 2004 in Albuquerque, from declining health due to age. Mr. Roskin had a career as the owner of I. Gerson & Sons Metal Co. in Toledo, OH and in his father's NYC jewelry manufacturing company, I. Ro
 SIEGAL--Gilbert. On Tuesday March 9, 2004. Survived by wife Aranka, daughter Rissa, son Joseph. A full notice will appear on March 21. SIEGAL--Gilbert. March 8, 2004. Lawyer, scholar and warm individual who exercised outstanding intellect modestly, concisely and cogently. Treasured 
 SIEGEL--Joel E., age 63, died on March 11, 2004. Of Arlington, VA. Survived by his parents Miriam D. and Sherman H. Siegel of Washington, PA and his sister Judith E. Siegel-Baum of New York City. Lyricist, Author, film critic, Grammy winner, music producer and manager and retired professor 
 WEIHS--Kurt (Weisz). Fine Artist, Painter and Sculptor, Art Director/Designer, Holocaust Survivor, Greenwich Village resident since 1947. Born March 5, 1918, Vienna, Austria. Educated at the Graphic Research Institute, Vienna. Trained at the prestigious Vienna Academy of Art, where he recei
 WELCH--Loren. Died peacefully on February 21, 2004, at his home in Coral Gables, FL. Loren was born March 10, 1922 in Ontario, CA. A professional singer and actor, he sang at Carnegie Hall and on Broadway in ''Song Of Norway'' and ''Look Ma I'm Dancing'' and was featured on the ''Kate Smith
 WOLF--Rabbi Efraim. The Officers and Board of Trustees, Administration, Faculty, Staff and Students of the North Shore Hebrew Academy and the North Shore Hebrew Academy High School are deeply sorrowed by the passing of our Founding Principal and outstanding spiritual and communal leader, Ra
 BERNSTEIN--Chas. H. Remembered with love on the 100th anniversary of his birth. His spirit and wisdom will always be in our hearts. The Family       
 BRAUNSTEIN--Irving. March 12, 1969. 35 years. One dies only when he is no longer remembered by those still here.       
 Cardinal Franz Knig, a skilled diplomat who worked to break down barriers between the Roman Catholic Church and Eastern Europe years before helping to elect a pope from a Communist country, died Saturday. He was 98. Cardinal Knig, an Austrian, was the Holy See's longest serving 
 Keith Hopkins, a professor at the University of Cambridge who was one of the first historians to use sociological methods to study the ancient Roman world, died last Monday at a hospice in Cambridge, England. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his literary executor, Christopher K
 BELL--Harold ''Harry.'' Of Boca Raton, FL, and Fort Lee, NJ, age 73, died Saturday, March 13, 2004, at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. Harold is survived by his wife Sandra, son Allan, daughter-in-law Dale, granddaughter Brittany and grandson Brandon. Harold grew up in Ever
 DUNDES--Lester. The former Publisher of Interior Design Magazine for over 45 years, died of a sudden heart attack in his home in Watermill, on Saturday, March 13. He was 90 years old and also lived in NYC. Mr. Dundes, a dynamic force within the design industry is credited with having built 
 GOLDSMITH--Hal. 73, died on March 13, 2004. Beloved husband of Del Rene, adored and adoring father of John and Robert, devoted friend and colleague. Graduate of Stuyvesant High School and City College of New York. NCAA fencing champion, member of US Olympic teams in 1952, 1956 and 1960, and
 HIRSCH--Chester A. Of Palm Springs, California, passed away peacefully in his sleep, on March 12, 2004, 19 days into his 98th year. Former resident of Deal, NJ, and New York City. Survived by three sons, Edward (DiAnne), John (Elizabeth) and Richard; grandchildren Douglas Hirsch, Karen Gelf
 KOSH--Oscar. Beloved husband of Leona, father of Ruth Varaiya of Berkeley, CA and Diana Lieb Sands of West Orange, NJ, grandfather of Daniel Lieb and step-grandfather of Sandy and David Lieb, he died peacefully on March 12th at age 88. A long-time resident of New Jersey and Florida, a loyal
 LEWIS--Sherman R. Jr., on March 11, 2004, at age 67. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of Thomas, Catherine, Elizabeth and Michael and grandfather of Olivia and Riley. Dear brother of Robin and Randal. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday 2
 LIMATO -- Frank. Beloved father of agent Ed Limato died on March 10, 2004. He was 94. He is survived by his wife of 77 years, Angelina. Friends may call the funeral home on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday from 4-8pm. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Monday March 15th at St. Peter and
 PAGNANELLA -- Dominic. March 12. World War II veteran. Devoted and loving husband of the late Frances. Beloved father of Joseph, Carol and Louis. Loving father-inlaw of Teresa, Jay and Janet. Father, your courage and strength will be the inpsiration that guides us for the rest of our lives.
 SALYER--Richard F. On March 13, 2004, at age 59. President and CEO of Volunteers of America-Greater New York. Beloved husband of Linda Horaist Salyer. Loving step-father of Ryan Furby. Dear brother of Larry Salyer and Sherry Rodgers. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave a
 SHAW--John F. Of John's Island, Florida, died after a brief illness on March 13, 2004. Mr. Shaw was known to many as ''Jack,'' the owner and proprietor of the famous Emily Shaw's Inn in Pound Ridge, New York, which he operated for 40 years. He attended the Hun School in Princeton, New Jerse
 SIEGEL--Joel E., age 63, died on March 11, 2004. Of Arlington, VA. Survived by his parents Miriam D. and Sherman H. Siegel of Washington, PA and his sister Judith E. Siegel-Baum of New York City. Lyricist, Author, film critic, Grammy winner, music producer and manager and retired professor 
 SINZHEIMER--Hans. Beloved husband, cherished grandfather, devoted brother, loved by his friends and family. Left us on Friday, March 12, 2004. He will be greatly missed. He will never be forgotten.       
 Van NORMAN--David L., 68, of Naples, FL, passed away Friday, March 12, 2004. Mr. Van Norman was a former vestry member of St. James Church in New York City. He is survived by his wife Heather and a son Mark (Margaret). Also surviving are three grandchildren Megan, Natalie and Olivia. A memo
 Ustad Vilayat Khan, one of India's most renowned sitar players, died on Saturday at Jaslok Hospital in Mumbai, the Indo-Asian News Service reported. He was 76 and had residences in Dehra Dun, India, and Princeton, N.J. The cause was lung cancer and other problems, the news service r
 Cid Corman, a prolific American poet, editor and translator who lived in Japan for the last four decades, died on Friday at a hospital in Kyoto. He was 79. His death was reported on the Web site for English Teachers in Japan. Richard Aaron, his archivist, said that Mr. Corman had be
 John W. Seybold, a pioneer in the field of computerized typesetting, which transformed the publishing industry, died on Sunday at a hospice in Haverford, Pa. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, according to his son Andrew Seybold. In 1963, Mr. Seybold, a longtime printin
 BAIM--Jerry, 72, passed away on March 15, 2004 at his home surrounded by his loving family, who were his pride and joy. Cherished husband of Carole. Loving father of Wendy & Scott, Cheryl & Danny, Donna & David. Proud Poppy of Evan, Noah, Ethan, Sophie and Owen. Devoted brother of Sheldon &
 BASCH--Peter. On March 15, 2004. Died quietly in his sleep at 2:22AM after enjoying the success of the recent publication in Germany of ''Stars'', a collection of his photographs from the '50's and '60's. He is survived by his loving wife, Jacqueline Bertrand, his children, Michele and Pete
 BLUM--Harry, M.D. Age 105, of Southbury, CT, died Sunday March 14, 2004, peacefully at his home. He had run an active ear, nose and throat practice in Brooklyn for over 70 years. Services Tuesday March 16, 2004 at 10 A.M. at B'Nai Israel Temple, 444 Main Street North, Southbury, CT. Burial 
 BUONOCORE--Luke. He had great strength, integrity, vitality, creativity and judgement. It was a privilege to have known him. My sincere condolences to his family and friends. John T. Hunter       
 CILO--Charles M., 65, of South Salem, NY. March 14, 2004. Novelist and retired advertising executive of CampbellMithun Esty of NYC. Survived by his wife Eleanor (nee Duker) Cilo, a son Charles M. Cilo III and his wife Jill and a sister Ruth Nord. A Memorial Service will be announced. Contri
 DUNDES--Lester. The former Publisher of Interior Design Magazine for over 45 years, died of a sudden heart attack in his home in Watermill, on Saturday, March 13. He was 90 years old and also lived in NYC. Mr. Dundes, a dynamic force within the design industry is credited with having built 
 FINDER--Milton L. Beloved husband of the late Mildred. Devoted father of Edmund and Vickie and father-in-law of Alan. Cherished grandfather of Adam, Andrew, Lindsay, Jacqueline, Jason and Matthew. He graduated from Pace University with honors and was Chief Financial Officer of Pocket Books/
 FRANKLIN--Robert B., 90, of NYC and So. Egremont, MA, died Saturday, March 13, 2004. Survived by wife Jane, children R. Bruce, Jr., Betsy Ignacio, Jody Burrows and Peter W. A graduate of Williams College, he was a former Vice President of Sylvania Electric and Business Manager of Brooklyn P
 GLANTZ--Edward S. On March 14, 2004 at age 59. Retired President of Giorgio Armani. Beloved husband of Gabriella Glantz. Dear brother of Audrey Dymant and Barbara Bortugno. Devoted brother-in-law of Joe, Steve and Carol. Adored uncle of Elaine and Ed, Steven and Lisa, Karen and Michael, Sha
 GOLDSMITH -- Harold. The Directors and staff of WJCS mourn the loss of Harold Goldsmith, a valued leader, past president and active member of the Board. He will be missed by all who were privileged to have worked with him. We extend heartfelt condolences to Del and the family. Maida Silver,
 GOODSIDE--Victor, M.D. Of Mount Vernon, age 97, passed away peacefully at home, March 13, 2004. A graduate of Virginia Medical College, he had been a practicing clinician, scholar, and Chief of Ophthalmologic Surgery at Bronx Lebanon and Montefiore Hospitals. He pursued his multitude of int
 HIRSCH--Chester A. Of Palm Springs, California, passed away peacefully in his sleep, on March 12, 2004, 19 days into his 98th year. Former resident of Deal, NJ, and New York City. Survived by three sons, Edward (DiAnne), John (Elizabeth) and Richard; grandchildren Douglas Hirsch, Karen Gelf
 KAPP -- Frederic C. Died March 13th, 2004. The officers, directors and employees of New York Design Center, Inc. join with his family in mourning the passing of our friend and colleague, Fred Kapp, a director of our company for over 20 years. He was a fine human being whose presence will be
 KIAER--Dr. Donald C. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, we express our sorrow on the death of our colleague, Dr. Donald C. Kiaer on March 13. A longstanding staff member of North Shore University Hospital at Glen Cove, h
 KOSH--Oscar. Beloved husband of Leona, father of Ruth Varaiya of Berkeley, CA and Diana Lieb Sands of West Orange, NJ, grandfather of Daniel Lieb and step-grandfather of Sandy and David Lieb, he died peacefully on March 12th at age 88. A long-time resident of New Jersey and Florida, a loyal
 LEVINE--Arthur B. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Arthur Levine, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Sybil, and to the entire
 LEWIS--Sherman R., Jr., 67 of Manhattan, New York, died March 11, 2004. Mr. Lewis was a vice chairman and international investment banker at Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Throughout his 30-year career at Lehman Brothers, he held numerous senior positions, including partner in the Corporate
 MOTZ -- Lloyd. Professor Emeritus of Astronomy, Columbia University. Adored teacher, distinguished scientist and humanitarian. Survived by his wife for 70 years, Minnie, son, Dr. Robin Motz, daughter Julie Motz, grandchildren Jeremy, Nicole and Benjamin and great granddaughter Isabella. Ser
 RIESSMAN--Frank. The Bard College community mourns the passing of Frank Riessman, a former faculty member whose contributions as an educator, author, and social activist have had a profound and lasting impact. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Leon Botstein, President David E
 SALYER--Richard F. On March 13, 2004, at age 59. President and CEO of Volunteers of America-Greater New York. Beloved husband of Linda Horaist Salyer. Loving step-father of Ryan Furby. Dear brother of Larry Salyer and Sherry Rodgers. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave a
 SILVERMAN--John H., of Ft. Lee, NJ and Wellington, FL, on March 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Rosa A. (nee Moreu) Silverman. Loving father of Joanne Larzik, Desiree Ruggiero and stepfather of Gina Cotto. Dear brother of Dorothy Hayman. Cherished grandfather of Jaclyn Taylor Ruggiero, Jason R
 SMITH--Philip C. Retired Chairman and CEO of Yardley of London, Inc, and a director of mutual funds from the early days of their development as investment entities, died on February 17, 2004. He was living in Weston, CT where he had resided for forty-nine years. He was ninety-two. Born in P
 STEINBERG--Bernard. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida acknowledge with sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Bernard Steinberg. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Shirley, and their family. Robert Rachesky, President     
 THOMPSON--Charles D.W., of Locust Valley, NY, on March 8th, 2004, age 73. He died after a lengthy illness. Dearly remembered brother of Henry B. Thompson III, Mary T. Dwyer and Beatrice B. Guthrie. A Memorial Service will be held at Christ Church of Oyster Bay, Saturday, April 17th, at 11 A
 VAN NORMAN--David L. The Board and staff of the Neighborhood Coalition for Shelter and the members of the Community Advisory Committee mourn the passing of a gentle and wise community leader who so ably chaired our Committee for so many years. We miss his strength and friendship. Our heartf
 Richard Salyer, who built the local chapter of Volunteers of America into the largest and perhaps most aggressive nonprofit provider of shelter and treatment to the homeless in New York City, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59. The cau
 BAIM--Jerry, 72, passed away on March 15, 2004 at his home surrounded by his loving family, who were his pride and joy. Cherished husband of Carole. Loving father of Wendy & Scott, Cheryl & Danny, Donna & David. Proud Poppy of Evan, Noah, Ethan, Sophie and Owen. Devoted brother of Sheldon &
 BERK--Joseph P., 77, of Cambridge, MA on March 12, 2004. A graduate of Wyoming Seminary and Harvard College, Joe was founder and President of Pathways of Sound, a recording company ''founded for children and others who share their good taste.'' Over a span of four decades, its recordings we
 CILO--Charles M., 65, of South Salem, NY. March 14, 2004. Novelist and retired advertising executive of CampbellMithun Esty of NYC. Survived by his wife Eleanor (nee Duker) Cilo, a son Charles M. Cilo III and his wife Jill and a sister Ruth Nord. A Memorial Service will be announced. Contri
 GREENE--James Wheelock. Died March 13, 2004 in New York City, age 36. He is survived by his twin sister Jody Greene, his sister Lou Duff, his mother Fayal Greene and his two guardian angels, Miss Fox and Donald Shufford. A memorial gathering will take place in the summer. In lieu of flowers
 HALL--Robert H. of Wyckoff, NJ. Sailor, student, athlete, loving husband, beloved father, grandfather and great grandfather, beloved brother, respected business executive, mentor, volunteer and benefactor passed on Sunday, March 14, 2004. He was a devoted family man who invariably put his f
 KAYE--Norman Edwin on March 15, 2004. Beloved father & father-in-law of Melissa Kaye-Swift and Tom Swift. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan and Elijah. Kind and gentle, he will live in our hearts forever. Graveside service 11 AM, Thursday, March 18, Cedar Park Cemetery, Westwood, NJ. Donati
 KIRZON--Melville, on March 15th, 2004. President of Frontier Planning Corp. in NYC for over 30 years. Served his country proudly in Germany and France 1944-1945. Devoted father of Maura Kirzon Malone and father-in-law of John Malone. Services Wednesday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th S
 KOSSOW--Daniel H. Of Armonk, NY on March 15 at age 73. Much loved husband and friend of Kari and father of daughters, Karen, of Arlington, VA, Ellen of San Francisco, CA and son Jon and his fiancee, Molly, of Menlo Park, CA. A graduate of NYU and Harvard Law School ('55) Dan loved film and 
 MAGRO--Frank J., born in Valetta, Malta on June 21st, 1924 and a resident of NYC since 1929, passed away Sunday, March 14th. Died peacefully at home with his family. He will be mourned by his wife Patricia, son Christopher, sister Mary Litris, brother Joe Magro, the balance of his large and
 MILLER--Jeffrey G. Suddenly on March 11, 2004. Wellknown antique dealer in NYC. His friends and relatives will miss him. God is with him.       
 WAYNE--Michael, age 79. Beloved father and renowned restauranteur of New York, NY, passed away on March 15, 2004 in Miami Beach. Mr. Wayne was co-owner of notable restaurants such as ''The Old Homestead'', ''The Press Box'', ''The Assembly'', ''The Double Dolphin'', ''Manny Wolf's'' and ''S
 Sidney Lorraine James, a 40-year veteran journalist at Time Inc., where he was the founding editor of Sports Illustrated in 1954, died last Thursday in Alameda, Calif. He was 97. His death was announced by his son Timothy M. James. Mr. James joined Time-Life in 1929 as a str
 William H. Pickering, a leader of the first successful spaceflight by the United States and its first two decades of planetary exploration, died on Monday at his home in La Caada Flintridge, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Pickering's death, from pneumonia, was announced by the Jet Propulsi
 Bates Lowry, an art and architectural historian who was the founding director of the National Building Museum in Washington and served for a short time as director of the Museum of Modern Art in New York, died on Friday in Brooklyn. He was 80 and lived in Boston. The cause was pneum
 BERK--Joseph P., 77, of Cambridge, MA on March 12, 2004. A graduate of Wyoming Seminary and Harvard College, Joe was founder and President of Pathways of Sound, a recording company ''founded for children and others who share their good taste.'' Over a span of four decades, its recordings we
 FUCHS--Jack. Of Roslyn, NY and New York, NY passed away on March 13, 2004. Dear husband of Cyrille. Devoted father of Jessica, Matthew, Richard and Meredith. Cherished grandfather of Yael, Hillary, Elie, Danny, Mackenzie, Zoe and Aaron. WWII veteran, attorney and entrepreneur. We will miss 
 GREENE--James Wheelock. Died March 13, 2004 in New York City, age 36. He is survived by his twin sister Jody Greene, his sister Lou Duff, his mother Fayal Greene and his two guardian angels, Miss Fox and Donald Shufford. A memorial gathering will take place in the summer. In lieu of flowers
 JAICKS--David P., 78, a pioneer in food processing and education activist, successfully introduced new technologies to the production and distribution of food processing for an ever larger population, and, among other community actions, was a leader in the integration of local schools in th
 LOWRY -- Bates. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art join the art world in mourning the loss of Dr. Bates Lowry. As the third Director of MoMA from 1968 to 1969, he was an integral part of MoMA's history, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his two daughters, Patricia Lowry,
 MEYERS--Dr. Marvin D. Psychologist, lifelong friend, loved his family. Dr. Richard Miller       
 RIESSMAN--Frank. We are saddened by the loss of our distinguished colleague, a social psychologist and passionate believer in self-help and learning through teaching who founded and co-directed the National Self-Help Clearing House and the Peer Research Laboratory at our Center for Advanced
 ROCCELLA -- Andrew. Age 26, of Vienna, VA, on March 6, 2004, in Baltimore, MD. Son of Eileen M., and Dr. Edward J. Roccella, nephew of John and Anna Redmond, Vincent and Charlotte Roccella, and Nancy Zavada. He is also survived by six cousins. He was a 1995 graduate of Marshall High School 
 RUTTNER -- Norman, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. William G. Stein, M.D. President Barry D. Stimmel, M.D. Vice President Elliot J. Ra
 SNYDER--Arthur. Board and staff members of the Arthritis Foundation, NY Chapter are saddened at the passing of Dr. Snyder, a longtime volunteer in the fight against arthritis. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his family. SNYDER--Arthur. A light has gone out and our hearts are b
 SNYDER--Arthur I., M.D. With immense sadness, the family of Dr. Arthur I. Snyder of New York City and Washington, CT. announces his death on March 15, 2004 from complications resulting from pneumonia. Dr. Snyder was an internist and rheumatologist for 54 years, practicing most recently as a
 VON STADE--Philip Richard. Of Locust Valley, LI on March 16, 2004 age 75. Beloved husband of Marjorie M. Father of Philip Jr. and MaryAnne, Robert and Liz Munson, Richard and Kimberly, Kathryne and Brett Lewis, F. Skiddy and Elizabeth. Brother of Frederick, John, Kathryne Krumpe and Nannie 
 WALSH--Leo S. With much sadness, we mourn the passing of Leo S. Walsh, truly beloved husband of Sandra L., and devoted father of Devon K. On March 17, 2004, he passed away at his home in Manhattan. Born in Philadelphia, he attended the Sacred Heart School. After a stint in the Army, from th
 Sir John A. Pople, a mathematician who became a chemist and won a Nobel Prize in 1998 for a computer tool that describes the dance of molecules in chemical reactions, died Monday at his daughter's home in Chicago. He was 78. The cause of death was liver cancer, his family said.     
 Milton Resnick, a New York painter known for dour, thickly impastoed near-monochrome canvases, died on March 12 at his home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He was 87 and also had a home in Cragsmoor, N.Y. His wife, the painter Pat Passlof, said Mr. Resnick committed suicide.   
 BAKAL--Carl, 86, died peacefully, surrounded by family on Thursday, March 18, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Stephanie, Emilie, Amy and Wendy Jo. Dear father-in-law to Mark Mannucci, Jose Ugarte and Walter Schlomann. Adored grandfather of David, Arin, R
 CAPANEGRO--Hon. Michael J. at his home in Lloyd Harbor on March 17, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife Roseann, his beautiful and talented daughter Michelle, his brother George, niece Barbara and nephew Greg. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset on 
 CILO--Charles M. Jr. Novelist, Retired Ad Executive. Charles ''Chuck'' M. Cilo, Jr., writer, advertising executive, loving husband, and father, died Sunday, March 14. He was 65 and lived in South Salem, NY. Mr. Cilo was born in Passaic, NJ. His family moved to Connecticut where he attended 
 FENDALL--Frank C. Family and friends mourn the passing of Frank C. Fendall on March 7, 2004 in Sag Harbor, NY. He is survived by his devoted wife Elinor, loving daughter Paula, grandson Terrence, and son-in-law Earl. He will be remembered and missed by many.       
 HATFIELD--Robert S. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed Hospital Trustee Robert S. Hatfield. A business leader and a man of great personal warmth, Mr. Hatfield served as President 
 HOLLAND--Ira E, Businessman, Advocate and Founder of Concepts of Independence, Inc, dies at 64. In 1955 Ira contracted Polio that left him a Respiratory Dependent Quadriplegic. He was dependent upon people for all of his care and upon machines for each breath he took for the remainder of hi
 KIRKLEY--Charles W. (Bill). To know him was to love him. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife and our dear friend Patsy. Love, The Gang       
 KIRSCH--Leslie, 99, a lifelong New Yorker, passed away peacefully in his Manhattanhome March 17. He was a lawyer and scholar who loved languages, literature, and music. Beloved husband of the late Adele Epstein Kirsch, he is survived by his loving children, Carol Dietz and John Kirsch, four
 RUSSO -- Tobias A., Esq. Passed away on March 14, 2004, a graduate of NYU Law and a prominent attorney in the Bronx for over 40 years. Mr. Russo worked for Legal Aid in the Bronx and volunteered with the Public Defender and Legal Aid in Rockland County. Mr. Russo is survived by two daughter
 SNYDER--Arthur I., M.D. With immense sadness, the family of Dr. Arthur I. Snyder of New York City and Washington, CT. announces his death on March 15, 2004 from complications resulting from pneumonia. Dr. Snyder was an internist and rheumatologist for 54 years, practicing most recently as a
 TAUBER--Peter Aaron Lee. 56, of NYC, celebrated writer, performer, political commentator and wit, died suddenly on the ski slopes of Deer Valley, UT, on Friday, March 12, 2004. The son of Rhea S. Tauber and the late Dr. Abraham Tauber, he is also survived by his sisters Lucy Tauber Brysk of
 VON STADE--Philip R. The Trustees and staff of the Shelburne Museum mourn the passing of Philip R. von Stade, our beloved Chairman of the Board. His steady leadership and unflagging devotion were an inspiration and have made the Museum an immeasurably stronger institution. We extend our dee
 WALDMAN--Rabbi Nahum. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, retired professor of Bible and Hebrew at Gratz College in Philadelphia. We extend our deepest condolences to his family, especially his daughter, our colleague, Rabbi Iscah Waldma
 WALSH--Leo S. With much sadness, we mourn the passing of Leo S. Walsh, truly beloved husband of Sandra L., and devoted father of Devon K. On March 17, 2004, he passed away at his home in Manhattan. Born in Philadelphia, he attended the Sacred Heart School. After a stint in the Army, from th
 WELCH--James. Age 90. Passed away peacefully on March 17, 2004 in NYC. Beloved father and musician. During WWII he played trombone with the 8th Army Band. After the war, he toured as a soloist with the Tommy Dorsey Band. In 1948 he moved to NYC with his wife Mildred and played in night club
 Peter Tauber, a writer whose book ''The Sunshine Soldiers'' became a popular, irreverent memoir of the Vietnam era, died on March 12 in Park City, Utah. He was 56 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Tauber was on a skiing vacation when he collapsed while waiting for a
 Dr. J. Wayne Streilein, a scientist and an academic administrator whose research helped lay a foundation for corneal and other eye-tissue transplants, died on Monday in Boston, where he headed the Schepens Eye Research Institute. He was 68 and lived in Beverly, Mass. Dr. Streilein w
 Dr. John Rodgers, a Yale geologist who mapped the patterns of Connecticut bedrock and helped support the theory of continental drift with his ideas about mountain formation, died on March 7 in Hamden, Conn. He was 89 Dr. Leo Hickey, chairman of the department of geology and geophysi
 BERGER--Albert. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Barbara, his children Robert and Jill, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Steven Chill, P
 GLADSTONE -- Arthur A., March 25, 1926-March 18, 2004, in Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of NYC. Private service. Survived by his beloved wife, Ann, two loving sons, Michael (Patti) and Steven (Susan), and four adoring grandchildren, Samantha, Gabriel, Joshua and Rachel; also his dear sisters, Ya
 GREENBERG--Robert. The Monroe College community notes with profound sadness the untimely passing of Robert Greenberg husband of Roberta Greenberg, Vice President of the college. Bob was a very real and special part of Monroe for more than 28 years. He had a love for the success of students 
 JABARA--Edward R. With immense sadness the family of Edward R. Jabara mourn his passing on March 17, 2004. Beloved husband of Gloria, devoted father of Edward and James, cherished fatherin-law of Karen, proud grandfather of Melissa. Loving brother of Theodore and Claire, caring brother-in-l
 KIRSCH--Leslie, 99, a lifelong New Yorker, passed away peacefully in his Manhattanhome March 17. He was a lawyer and scholar who loved languages, literature, and music. Beloved husband of the late Adele Epstein Kirsch, he is survived by his loving children, Carol Dietz and John Kirsch, four
 OSHERSON--Louis. March 19 in Keene, NH. Beloved husband of the late Adele S. Osherson, father of Samuel and Daniel Osherson, father-inlaw of Julie and Yolande Osherson and grandfather of Toby, Emily, Marc, Annette, and Benjamin Osherson. Friend to many, he brought great joy to life. Member 
 PEASE--Donald E. died on March 15, 2004 at the age of 83. He was admitted to practice law in Delaware, the District of Columbia and North Dakota. He was a member of the Delaware Bar Association and Chairman of its Lawyers Assistance Committee from 1985 to 1995 and continued as a member unti
 Richard A. Brown, a leading tactician of the New York Democratic revolt against the Tammany Hall machine half a century ago, died on Feb. 13 in Washington, where he had lived for the last 40 years. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Brown earned his spurs 
 Sherman R. Lewis, a longtime financier who was a vice chairman at Lehman Brothers, died on March 11 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was leukemia, a Lehman Brothers spokeswoman said. During a career that spanned more than 30 years 
 Harrison McCain, a Canadian billionaire whose family-owned business began in a cow pasture in New Brunswick and grew into one of the world's largest producers of frozen French fries, died Thursday night. He was 76. Mr. McCain's company, McCain Foods, confirmed his death, which occur
 BAIM--Jerry. The family of Sheldon Baim are immensely saddened by the untimely death of his beloved brother, Jerry Baim. Our deepest sympathy to Jerry's adored wife, Carole, his children Wendy and Scott Siegel, Cheryl and Danny Schwartz, David and Donna Baim and his five beautiful grandchil
 BARKHORN--Richard E., age 82, of New York City and formerly of Summit, New Jersey, died at home on March 12, 2004. A reporter and editor for more than thirty years with the Newark Evening News, he was a graduate of Dartmouth College where he was co-editor of the College newspaper. Born and 
 BERGER--Albert. A kind, sweet, ''gentle man'' died March 19, 2004 after a courageous battle with cancer in Boca Raton, FL. He was a resident of Harrison, NY. He will be missed by his loving wife Barbara, devoted daughter Jill, son Robert and adored grandson Ian. He was the son of the late L
 BIDDLE--David, M.D. My sincere condolences to the entire family on the passing of their beloved patriarch. Our deep friendship was a privilege to share with a Doctor of Medicine, dedication and integrity. A brilliant man loaded with courage and love. Thanks for being a part of my life. Denn
 BORNMANN--William C., retired after 30 years as VP/ Head of Casualty at Johnson & Higgins, died March 12 in Westfield, N.J. AB Hamilton, MA Columbia, ABD Yale, he also taught math at Georgia Tech for five years. Survived by his wife Gladys, children Barbara and Bill, sisters Adelaide and Be
 BUXTON--William Perrin. 87, died peacefully at home in Fairfield, CT on March 16, 2004. He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Anne Taylor Buxton, his four children, Sally Buxton of Coral Gables, FL, Jeffrey Taylor Buxton and his wife Janelle Pote Buxton of Yardley, PA, Lucy Buxton of Bel 
 CASE--Hadley, of Naples, FL and the Bald Peak Colony Club, Melvin Village, NH, formerly of Greenwich, CT. Died peacefully on Tuesday, March 16, 2004, at the age of 94. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth McCabe of Naples, his four daughters: Mary ''Casey'' Durham of Scottsdale, AZ, Julie 
 CILO--Charles M. Jr. Novelist, Retired Ad Executive. Charles ''Chuck'' M. Cilo, Jr., writer, advertising executive, loving husband, and father, died Sunday, March 14. He was 65 and lived in South Salem, NY. Mr. Cilo was born in Passaic, NJ. His family moved to Connecticut where he attended 
 EIDINOFF--Dr. Maxwell L., on March 9, 2004, of New Hyde Park, NY and Coconut Creek, FL. Devoted and cherished husband of Bea for 65 years. Loving father of Lois and Bernard Weinstein and Enid and Richard Rizzo. Brilliant professor, researcher, author and lecturer. He was respected and loved
 GALEN--Donald W. November 27, 1921-March 18, 2004. Born in Brooklyn, NY, Donald studied at The City College of New York, Princeton University and received a Bachelor of Science from Cornell University and a Master of Science from Indiana University. A US Army veteran of World War II, Donald
 GILSOUL--Marc Robert. August 31, 1942, to March 19, 2004. From heart failure, after a long illness. To know him was to love him.       
 GLADSTONE -- Arthur A., March 25, 1926-March 18, 2004, in Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of NYC. Private service. Survived by his beloved wife, Ann, two loving sons, Michael (Patti) and Steven (Susan), and four adoring grandchildren, Samantha, Gabriel, Joshua and Rachel; also his dear sisters, Ya
 GREENBERG--Robert. The family of Robert Greenberg sadly announces his death on March 18, 2004 after a short illness. Funeral service was held on March 19th. Shiva will be observed at the family's residence. Donations may be sent in his memory to the Westchester Day School, Mamaroneck, NY.  
 GROSSMAN -- Herbert. On March 19, 2004. Beloved husband of Linda Grossman. Dear son of the late Isidore and Celia Grossman. Cherished brother of Dr. Edward and Madeleine Grossman and the late Solomon Grossman and sister-in-law Shirley Grossman and brother-in-law Neal Goodless. Adored uncle.
 HAUSMAN--Leo, 94. With immense sadness the family mourns his passing on March 19th. Beloved husband of the late ''Blanchie'', father of Martin and Helaine Hausman, Jane and Richard Karp and the late Margaret, wife of Albert Sarasohn. Loving grandfather of Jonathan, Kenneth, James and Elizab
 HOPPER--Donald A. On March 20, 2004, at age 78, peacefully at home surrounded by family. Don was a lifelong resident of Manhattan and descendant of the Dutch Hopper family that settled in New York City in the 17th century. Don was a proud World War II veteran, graduate of the University of 
 JABARA--Edward R. With immense sadness the family of Edward R. Jabara mourn his passing on March 17, 2004. Beloved husband of Gloria, devoted father of Edward and James, cherished fatherin-law of Karen, proud grandfather of Melissa. Loving brother of Theodore and Claire, caring brother-in-l
 MARCUS--Seymour. 91, died on March 16, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Elsie, loving father of Jay and Toby Hoffman, cherished grandfather to Jeffrey, Amy, Wendy, David, Michael and Elyssa, adoring great-grandfather of four. With his brothers he founded Halsey Drug Company, also a founder
 NEW--Herman. It is with heartfelt sorrow that we record the passing of Herman New, beloved father of Michael New, Executive Director of the Sephardic Nursing & Rehabilitation Center in Brooklyn, New York, and sister, Margaret Yosub of Petach Tikvah, Israel. Herman was a dear resident of the
 PFLUGFELDER -- John George. Of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, died March 18, 2004. He was born on November 23, 1930, in NYC. He was a graduate of the New York Military Academy and the University of Virginia. He served as a first Lieutenant in the U.S. Army during the Korean Conflict. John was a mem
 PISTACCHIO -- Clement G., J.D. On March 19. Beloved husband of Joan Garvin. Loving brother-in-law of Steven and Mary Taube, Richard and Ann Monday, and Eileen Garvin. Wonderful uncle to Fred and Tracy Stout and Andrew, Matthew and James Taube; great-uncle of Anna Kay Stout. Clem was an atto
 SIEGAL--Gilbert. May 28, 1920-March 9, 2004. Gilbert, son of Jack and Mildred, was Evander Child High valedictorian; University of Richmond Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Law graduate interrupting his studies to volunteer the day after Pearl Harbor becoming an Air Force officer awarded two Disting
 SINGER--Leon, 88. March 17, 2004. Physician and scholar. Husband of the late Joyce, brother of Regina, father of Richard and Ian, father-in-law of Muriel and Pam, grandfather of Sean, Andrew and Michael. His love and mind will be greatly missed.       
 SINGER--Rabbi Dr. Joseph I. The Officers and Members of the Manhattan Beach Jewish Center, Chevra Mishnayos and Sisterhood, mourn the loss of our esteemed and beloved Rabbi Emeritus, who served the community for more than half a century. Our condolences to the entire family. May his memory 
 TAUBER--Peter Aaron Lee. 56, of NYC, celebrated writer, performer, political commentator and wit, died suddenly on the ski slopes of Deer Valley, UT, on Friday, March 12, 2004. The son of Rhea S. Tauber and the late Dr. Abraham Tauber, he is also survived by his sisters Lucy Tauber Brysk of
 TIFFEN--Sol. On March 16, 2004, in his 89th year. Devoted husband, loving father, stepfather, grandfather and great-grandfather. Founder of Tiffen Optical with his brothers. We will miss you.       
 TSANG -- Vincent. Passed peacefully on March 15 in Manhattan NY. Survived by his wife Veronica, loving godfather of Tai, Jonathan and Annika, three brothers and four sisters, his family and friends were blessed with his love. The family will receive friends on Monday, March 22 from 3 to 7 P
 von STADE--Philip R., Sr. of Locust Valley, NY, Prouts Neck, ME, and Spring Island, SC, after a long and valiant battle with cancer died March 16, 2004. He was 75. A loving father and husband, a trusted advisor to many, a great sportsman and philanthropist, he had strength and good humor to
 Claude Nougaro, a popular French singer and songwriter whose fondness for American jazz led him to add swing to the traditional French chanson, died on March 4 at his home here. He was 74. Le Monde, the French daily, said the cause was cancer. Mr. Nougaro, who once described
 J. J. Jackson, one of the five original MTV video jockeys and an influential black broadcaster on rock radio and on television, died Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 62. Mr. Jackson apparently suffered a heart attack, friends told The Associated Press. He started in radio in
 Lester Dundes, who as the publisher of Interior Design Magazine for more than 45 years was a major force in helping to transform interior design from a hobby of the rich into a mainstream profession, died on March 13 at his home in Water Mill, N.Y., according to his daughter Kate Shattan. H
 HAUSMAN--Leo, 94. With immense sadness the family mourns his passing on March 19th. Beloved husband of the late ''Blanchie'', father of Martin and Helaine Hausman, Jane and Richard Karp and the late Margaret, wife of Albert Sarasohn. Loving grandfather of Jonathan, Kenneth, James and Elizab
 HOPPER--Donald A. On March 20, 2004, at age 78, peacefully at home surrounded by family. Don was a lifelong resident of Manhattan and descendant of the Dutch Hopper family that settled in New York City in the 17th century. Don was a proud World War II veteran, graduate of the University of 
 MARTINSON -- Paul. The Trustees and Staff of the American Folk Art Museum record with deep sorrow the death of their dear friend, Paul Martinson, husband of the Museum's esteemed Executive Vice President, Frances Sirota Martinson. Paul's quiet dignity masked a prodigious intellect, a sure w
 SADIN--Sam. On March 21. He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Terry Cooper Sadin, his sons Arthur and Robert, his grandson, Steven and Robert's companion Laura Pearlman. His much loved daughter, Madeline, died in 1970. Other surviving relatives include Anita and Dr. Gadiel Smith, Dan Coo
 SINGER--Paul. Most recently of Newton, MA, died peacefully on March 20, 2004, at the age of 81. Beloved husband of Lillian, adoring brother of the late Lillian Garfinkel and Gerry Singer, devoted father of Carol Singer Bricklin and Gary Ira Singer, and revered grandfather of Rachel Bryna an
 STERN--Harry J. Born Kirchain, Germany, August 18, 1919, passed away March 21, 2004, Stuart, FL. Beloved husband of Lou. Loving father of Russell, Kenneth and Susan Stern Getz. Caring father-inlaw of Jane Stern, Ilene Stern and David Getz. Very proud grandfather of Ernie and Anabel Getz, an
 TAUBER--Peter Aaron Lee. 56, of NYC, celebrated writer, performer, political commentator and wit, died suddenly on the ski slopes of Deer Valley, UT, on Friday, March 12, 2004. The son of Rhea S. Tauber and the late Dr. Abraham Tauber, he is also survived by his sisters Lucy Tauber Brysk of
 TIFFEN--Sol. On March 16, 2004, in his 89th year. Devoted husband, loving father, stepfather, grandfather and great-grandfather. Founder of Tiffen Optical with his brothers. We will miss you.       
 Irving Crespi, a public opinion pollster, professor and market researcher long associated with The Gallup Organization and the author of books on polling, public opinion and democracy, died on Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 77. He had had several minor strokes since 
 Nathan C. Heard, a novelist who wrote realistically of prison life and the mean streets of Newark, died last Tuesday at a hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 67 and lived in West Orange, N.J. His family did not specify the cause of death. Mr. Heard began writing while servin
 BERNSTEIN--Harold P., on March 21, 2004, of Palm Beach, FL and Cove Neck, LI. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Gene and Pam Bernstein, Jay and Jill Bernstein, Donna Bernstein, Linda and Tony Rubin, Matthew and Natalie Bernstein, Josh and Joann Lipman, Dorian Lipman and Ann Louise
 CASTLEBERRY -- Robert. The Carmine's family mourns the passing of our beloved Beverage Director, Robert Castleberry on March 16th. Robert was a lover of life and had an intense passion for people, wine and food. His palate was considered to be one of the most discriminating in the New York 
 CONDON--Edward Gerard. On March 20, 2004. Longtime resident of Long Beach, NY. Born August 30, 1932 to Dorothy Collins and Arthur Condon in Queens, NY. Harvard University Class of 1954. His career centered in publishing as an advertising sales executive. He leaves four children, Christine, 
 CONNOLLY -- Arthur Guild, died at the age of 98 on March 21, 2004 at his home in Wilmington where he had lived since 1939. For many years, Mr. Connolly was one of the top intellectual property litigators in the country. Among the U.S. and international clients for whom he tried cases were P
 GROSS--Jay, 60, loving husband of Louise, loving father of Dov Joseph and Esther. Adored and cherished grandfather of Meir, Rivka Shaindel and Malka Tzivia, brother of Adele Harris and Sheila Firnstein, son of the late Bernard and Jean Gross, beloved by his nieces, nephews and many friends.
 HATFIELD--Robert S. Cornell University mourns the loss of a devoted alumnus and trustee, Robert S. Hatfield, whose leadership, business acumen, and loyalty to the University were extraordinary. A member of the Class of 1937 and a much admired executive with a legendary commitment to public 
 HAUSMAN--Leo. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System is saddened by the death of Leo Hausman of Manhattan and Hollywood, FL, a retired textile manufacturer, a life trustee of the Health System and one of the community-spirited leaders who came together to found Long Island J
 MARTINSON--Paul. Manhattan School of Music and its Board of Trustees is saddened by the passing of Paul Martinson, cherished friend to the School and Trustee Emeritus. Mr. Martinson possessed a deep and abiding love for music and was a longtime supporter of the School's many programs. We ex
 SADIN--Sam. The Board and Staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA) express its profound sorrow at the passing of Sam Sadin. Sam served on JASA's Board of Trustees from 1976 until 1993. He developed the framework for establishing JASA's Joint Public Affairs Committee 
 SHIROMA--David M. With much sadness, the family mourns his passing on March 20th. Born in Waipio, Oahu in 1920 to Buita and Nahi Shiroma, David was proud to be a member of America's ''Greatest Generation.'' A U.S. Army veteran of World War II, David was a sergeant and graduate of the Milita
 SOLOMON--Morton. Died March 21st in Sunrise, FL at the age of 84 after a long and valiant battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Sylvia for 52 years. Cherished father of Eileen and Susan. Adored grandfather of Benjamin and Anna, and Melissa and Douglas. Loving father-in-law of Joshua Schwar
 STERN--Harry J. Born Kirchain, Germany, August 18, 1919, passed away March 21, 2004, Stuart, FL. Beloved husband of Lou. Loving father of Russell, Kenneth and Susan Stern Getz. Caring father-inlaw of Jane Stern, Ilene Stern and David Getz. Very proud grandfather of Ernie and Anabel Getz, an
 TAUBER--Peter Aaron Lee. 56, of NYC, celebrated writer, performer, political commentator and wit, died suddenly on the ski slopes of Deer Valley, UT, on Friday, March 12, 2004. The son of Rhea S. Tauber and the late Dr. Abraham Tauber, he is also survived by his sisters Lucy Tauber Brysk of
 WALSH--William David. On February 20, 2004, of Durham, NC. Beloved husband of Rosaleen McGowan Walsh. Devoted father and father-inlaw to Holly Daniel and her husband Royal of Mountain Lakes, NJ; Lawrence Walsh and his wife Kathleen of Concord, MA; William A. Walsh and his wife Elizabeth of 
 Claus Josef Riedel, the former president of Riedel Crystal and one of the first in his age-old craft to realize that the design of a wineglass could alter the perception of how its contents tasted, died in Genoa, Italy, on March 17. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his famil
 BERNSTEIN--Harold P., on March 21, 2004, of Palm Beach, FL and Cove Neck, LI. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Gene and Pam Bernstein, Jay and Jill Bernstein, Donna Bernstein, Linda and Tony Rubin, Matthew and Natalie Bernstein, Josh and Joann Lipman, Dorian Lipman and Ann Louise
 BIDDLE--David., M.D. The Department of Neurology and the Staff Society of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourn the loss of our dear and respected colleague, Dr. David Biddle. Dr. Biddle has been an integral part of the department and staff for nearly 34 years. He first came to Long I
 FISCHEL -- Ernest, passed away peacefully on March 22. He was 104. His family and friends thank him for a lifetime of generosity and joy. Maestro, all of us will dearly miss you.       
 HATFIELD--Robert S. Died peacefully at home in Greenwich, CT. Sunday March 14, 2004. We are all deeply saddened. An icon in business, but first he was a husband and father always there when we needed him. He gave tirelessly to make this world a better place. The words that he lived by and p
 HAUSMAN--Leo. What a glorious man and what a glorious life. Leo saw health problems and tried all his life to not merely ameliorate those problems, but sought every possible method to eliminate them. He gave of his money. He gave of his time. But most importantly he gave of himself and enth
 LEIFER--Seymour, on March 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Anna. Devoted, loving and dear father of Marvin, Jane and Carol. Fond grandfather of Jennifer, Michael and Rachel Lampert. Services were held Tuesday at Old Montefiore Cemetery. Donations in his memory to the American Society Technion I
 LYNCH--Brandon. In loving memory of Brandon Lynch. A truly honest, kind and gentle soul. Uncle to Brandon, brother to Thomas and son to James and Janine. Wonderful friend and co-worker at JUMP. A man who will be missed by all who knew him.       
 MACIAG--Thomas, PhD., internationally recognized molecular and cell biologist, died March 8, 2004 in Freeport, ME, at 57. Dr. Maciag was a scientist of the highest distinction, with extraordinary intellect, keen insight and an artist's vision of how complex biological systems work. He made 
 MORRIS--Donald. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their esteemed colleague, a long-time member and former ADAA director. A great dealer and a fine human being, his memory will be cherished. Our sympathy and condolences to his wife, Florence and his s
 NASSER--Rahmo, Dr. The ISEF Foundation mourns the loss of its long time friend and supporter Dr. Rahmo Nasser. He was a giant of his generation and a strong leader of the Sephardic community in Brazil. His legacy of generosity, good deeds, and deep wisdom will always be remembered. We send 
 REILLY -- Frank. Beloved husband of Genevieve, father of Dorine, Brian and Brendan, stepfather of Michael, grandfather of Jonathan, Jeremiah, Megan and Amy, brother of Mary and Martin, dear uncle of many nieces and nephews, died on March 20. He was 79 and was predeceased by brothers James, 
 SCHLOSS--Emanuel M. Congregation Emanu-El of the city of NY records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Emanuel M. Schloss. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M. Posner 
 SCHWARZ--Robert D. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their distinguished Philadelphia colleague, whose knowledge and taste made him one of our nation's greatest dealers in American antiques and art. Our sympathy and condolences to his wife, Pamela an
 TACKEL--Julius Jack on March 22, 2004. Beloved husband of Muriel. Loving and devoted father of Phyllis and Martin (Abbe) Tackel. Loving grandfather of David. Founding Partner of Representatives, Inc. Proud member of Jewish War Veterans and non-commissioned officer in the 749th Gun Battalion
 WALLIN--Alan A. On March 23 after a lengthy illness. A partner of Wallin, Simon & Black, CPA firm. He handled both life and business matters with great humanity and integrity. He is remembered as a dedicated family man and a gentleman. Services Friday, 12:30PM at Gutterman's, 175 N. Long Be
 Arthur Lithgow, a producer and director who was a pioneer in American regional theater, specializing in Shakespeare, died on Tuesday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 88. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, the actor John Lithgow. Mr. Lithgow (pronounced
 Charles H. Haden II, the federal judge who drew national attention in 1999 to the leveling of Appalachian mountaintops for their coal, died Saturday at his home in Morgantown, W.Va. He was 66. His death was announced by the United States District Court for the Southern District of W
 Leo Hausman, a retired textile executive and philanthropist who was a senior official of United Cerebral Palsy of New York for more than 40 years, died at his home in Hallandale, Fla., last Friday. He was 94. Mr. Hausman, who lived in Hallandale and Manhattan, died of natural causes
 ASTIFIDIS--Stelios (Steve) on March 22, 2004. He lived a long and satisfying life with his family and friends. Beloved husband of the late Cleopatra. Loving father of Maria, dear brother of Nicholas. In repose Basis Funeral Home, 2712 23 Ave, Astoria, NY, Friday 2-5 & 7-9PM. Funeral liturgy
 BIALOS--Joseph, 79, of Deerfield Beach, FL & formerly of Westbury, NY, on March 14. Beloved husband of the late Edith M. Bialos, who is dearly missed, father of Jeff Bialos & Ellen Fielding, & grandfather of Tyler, Tiffany & Tiara Fielding & Jeffrey Bialos. WW II veteran, salesman, small bu
 GORELICK -- Sol (Sholem). Died March 23. Beloved husband of Mildred. Father of David and Deborah Zimmer. Grandfather of nine. Greatgrandfather of ''Nes''. A man of exceptional wisdom, a staunch Union Man, beloved by all who knew him and worked with him for causes that would better humanity 
 HAUSMAN--Leo. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of Leo Hausman, an esteemed member of our Club since 1946. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Mark Claster, President Roger B
 LEVENTHAL--H. David A lawyer from Hartford, Connecticut, died March 24, 2004. Predeceased by his son Adam. He leaves his wife Ann Zinman Leventhal, daughter Amy, her husband David Thompson, Adam's widow Cindy Kolodziejski, his son Max, Max's wife Susan V. Booth, his son Seth, Seth's wife De
 MARTINSON--Paul. The partners, counsel, associates and staff at Phillips Nizer LLP deeply mourn the passing of our distinguished former partner and mentor. Together with Louis Nizer, he counseled business leaders, entertainment luminaries and government officials during his forty years with
 NEALE--Richard Lewis. Of Chappaqua, NY, died Sunday, March 21, 2004, after a lengthy illness. Mr. Neale, 82, was the son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Peter Charles Neale of Cleveland, OH. He was a graduate of Yale University, Class of 1943. He was married for 52 years to his beloved wife, Claud
 NOYES--Jansen, Jr. Cornell University mourns the loss of a devoted alumnus, trustee emeritus, eleventh chair of its board, and presidential councillor, Jansen Noyes Jr. His sharp business acumen, commitment to philanthropic interests, and ardent dedication to Cornell will long be remembered
 SADIN--Sam. We are grateful for all the years we spent together. We shared good times and bad times, laughter and tears. Bert, Jack and I, were touched by a special person. Our lives were enriched by our friendship. Bert and Dorothy SADIN--Sam. As friends of Madeline, we mourn the l
 SANTANGELO--Francis R. of Boynton Beach, Florida and Harrison, New York died of lung cancer on Monday, March 22, 2004 at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Florida. He was 71. Mr. Santangelo founded Santangelo and Company Specialist Firm on the American Stock Exchange until 1987. He con
 SCHLOSS--Emanuel M. (Amby). 91. Passed away on March 21 at his home in Palm Beach FL after a lengthy illness. He was born on November 22, 1911 in Washington DC to Gertrude and Leonard Schloss. He graduated from Syracuse University where he was an All American in baseball and soccer. He enjo
 STUPNICK--Louis, age 92, died at home in New York, on March 23, 2004. Beloved husband of 70 years to his ''Kid'' Florence Stupnick. Devoted father to Nancy and Jan Brumm, Lois and Albert Leon and Nina and Lawrence Epstein. Cherished grandfather of Daniel, Nicholas, Rebecca, Sarah, Isabel, A
 Robert Kleiman, a journalist specializing in foreign affairs and arms control and a former editorial writer for The New York Times, died Monday at his home in Washington. A former resident of Manhattan's Upper West Side, he was 85. Mr. Kleiman, who had cardiovascular problems, died 
 Samuel Sadin, a lumber executive who became an advocate for the elderly, died Sunday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 86. The cause of death was a brain disorder similar to Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Terry Cooper Sadin. In 1975, Mr. Sadin sold his Seaway Lumbe
 Leonard Lewin, a sportswriter who wrote five books with Red Holzman, the onetime coach of the Knicks, died Monday in Tampa, Fla. He was 87. His death was announced by his son, John. From 1971 to 1980, Mr. Lewin and Mr. Holzman collaborated on ''The Knicks,'' ''Holzman's Bask
 ARNSTEIN--Robert L. There will be a memorial service in Battell Chapel, Yale University, corner of Elm and College Streets, New Haven, CT, on Saturday, April 3, 2004, at 2:00 PM. He died October 27, 2003.       
 BIALOS--Joseph, 79, of Deerfield Beach, FL & formerly of Westbury, NY, on March 14. Beloved husband of the late Edith M. Bialos, who is dearly missed, father of Jeff Bialos & Ellen Fielding, & grandfather of Tyler, Tiffany & Tiara Fielding & Jeffrey Bialos. WW II veteran, salesman, small bu
 BRACCO--Richard A., M.D. on March 5, 2004. Preceded in death by his loving wife Janet and daughter Alice. Survived by sons Andrew, Edward and Arthur and brother Arthur, as well as four beautiful grandchildren. We will always remember his enthusiasm for life and passionate pursuit of all tha
 GIFFORD -- Clarence H. (Bud), died March 23, 2004. My friend and fishing companion for 30 years. To Wink and his wonderful family go our deep condolences on his passing. He will be missed. Jack & Susan Rudin & Family       
 GURFEIN--Douglas B. Devoted and loving son of Jay and Maggie, and the late Sheryl. Beloved brother of Greg, Steven, Jim, Robin and Michelle. You will always live in our hearts and minds. Contributions in his memory may be made to Making Headway Foundation, 115 King St., Chappaqua, N.Y. 1051
 HALSEY--Ralph W. Jr. of Noank, Connecticut died at Lawrence & Memorial Hospital in New London on March 20, 2004 after a short illness. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Betsey Avery Copp Halsey. Mr. Halsey was born in Orange, New Jersey on December 3, 1919. He attended The Hotchkiss S
 HOUDRY--Pierre D., Sportsman, (80), of Jupiter Island, FL, died Tuesday 23 March. Born in Paris, France, he had been a resident of Jupiter Island since 1973 coming from Berwyn, PA. He was Vice President of Oxy-Catalyst, a firm founded by his father, Eugene Houdry, the inventor of the cataly
 KAISER--Jack. The YM/ WREA mourns the passing of our friend and former Chairman. Our sincere condolences to his wife, two daughters and entire family. Gregg Schenker, Chairman       
 KRISTT--Milton, 89. Beloved husband to the late Mildred; wonderful father to Don and Abby; and Zaydie to Yoni, Aliza and Mindy; and five great grandchildren. A man of exceptional wit and humor and a clever pen who enthralled all with his magic. Former President of Mackay Publishing and Edit
 LACHOWITZ -- Monroe. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 SADIN--Sam. Sam was our mother's cousin but undertook after we lost our parents to fill the role of father, mentor, advisor and especially friend to all of us. He and Terry made their home our home and made our wives and our children part of their close family. They were there to celebrate 
 SANTANGELO--Francis R. of Boynton Beach, Florida and Harrison, New York died of lung cancer on Monday, March 22, 2004 at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Florida. He was 71. Mr. Santangelo founded Santangelo and Company Specialist Firm on the American Stock Exchange until 1987. He con
 SIEGEL--Richard C., 68, died at home in Great Barrington, MA March 19. He is survived by his wife Karen Skelton, his mother Ruth Siegel and his sister and brother-in-law Diane and Alan Spigelman. A memorial will be held. Info karen.skelton@verizon.net       
 TANCER--Michael. Dearest husband of Francine Tancer for 55 years, passed away on March 24 after a long and beautiful life. Loving and greatly loved in return by his devoted daughters Joan and Susan and son-in-law Les Tolchin, granddaughter Jennifer and grandson Eric and sister Frances Decke
 Dr. Zhong Wei Chen, a leader in the field of microsurgery who was among the first doctors to perform a successful operation to reattach a severed hand, died Tuesday in Shanghai. He was 74. His death occurred when he fell from the balcony of his seventh-floor apartment. His daughter,
 ARNSTEIN--Robert L. There will be a memorial service in Battell Chapel, Yale University, corner of Elm and College Streets, New Haven, CT, on Saturday, April 3, 2004, at 2:00 PM. He died October 27, 2003.       
 BERNSTEIN -- Harold. The Metropolitan Energy Council's Board of Directors and Member Associations mourn the passing of Harold Bernstein, one of the heating oil industries' major leaders. He was truly one of the great men in our business. We extend our deepest sympathies and sincerest condol
 BRACCO--Richard A., M.D. on March 5, 2004. Preceded in death by his loving wife Janet and daughter Alice. Survived by sons Andrew, Edward and Arthur and brother Arthur, as well as four beautiful grandchildren. We will always remember his enthusiasm for life and passionate pursuit of all tha
 GERRITY--James Francis II, of Chestnut Hill, MA and York Harbor, ME, Chairman of Gerrity Lumber Co, died March 24 in Chestnut Hill. A funeral will be held Saturday, April 3, at 12 PM in the First Parish Congregational Church, 180 York St., York, ME. Survived by his wife, Ruth (Mathes) Gerri
 GORDEVITCH--Igor, Publisher and resident of Pawling, NY, suddenly on March 24, 2004. He began his career as a reporter covering the Vatican and European affairs for the International Herald Tribune. He became Editor and later Publisher at Vision Inc., a publisher of Latin American business 
 STERNBERG -- Samuel, of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on Thursday, March 25th, 2004 at the age of 81. Beloved and devoted husband of his wife of 57 years, Beverly (nee Tartell), cherished father of Wilma, Marcia, and Stuart, adored grandfather of Marissa, Morgen, Sandy, Jake, Natalie, and Ella,
 Isaac Kleinerman, a leading producer and editor of television documentaries, including the celebrated 1960 condensation of ''Victory at Sea'' for NBC and ''The 20th Century,'' a CBS News series, died on March 7 while vacationing in Bucerias, Mexico. He was 87 and a resident of Todi, in Umbr
 ARNSTEIN--Robert L. There will be a memorial service in Battell Chapel, Yale University, corner of Elm and College Streets, New Haven, CT, on Saturday, April 3, 2004, at 2:00 PM. He died October 27, 2003.       
 ARTHUR--Hartney J., on March 24, 2004 in Connecticut. He had a long and distinguished career as producer, theatrical and film agent, casting director and actor. He is survived by his many friends. There will be no service.       
 BERNSTEIN--Harold. The Tel Aviv Foundation wishes to express its heartfelt condolences to Helen and family for the loss of your beloved husband, father, and grandfather, a man of tzedekah and vision. Harold, our partner, a man who truly believed that education is the best tool for the advan
 BESSELAAR--G. Hein, M.D., Ph.D., 70, Chairman of the Board of PharmaNet Inc, an international drug development company, died on March 13, in Madrid, Spain. In 1976, he founded G.H. Besselaar Associates and built it into a worldwide leader in outsourced clinical drug development. Corning Inc
 BRACCO--Richard A., M.D. on March 5, 2004. Preceded in death by his loving wife Janet and daughter Alice. Survived by sons Andrew, Edward and Arthur and brother Arthur, as well as four beautiful grandchildren. We will always remember his enthusiasm for life and passionate pursuit of all tha
 BRAUNSTEIN -- Charles Stuart. With great sadness, the family of Charles Braunstein announces his death on March 24, 2004 in Scottsdale, AZ. His warmth, humor and caring will be remembered and missed by family and friends and especially by his wife, Ruth and sisters, Phyllis Margolin and Edi
 ELAHI--Hajj-Amin. It is with the deepest sorrow that our beloved Hajj-Amin Elahi passed away March 23, 2004, 11 AM, local time in Lyon, France, at the age of 85. His legacy was one of kindness and love, and always sought to remind us of God's greatness. Thousands of people mourn his death a
 FERGUSON--Percival, PhD died February 29th at the age of 77 after battling Cancer. Percy was a Psychology Professor in upstate NY and a musician in Montreal, upstate NY and NYC. He was an avid recreational ice hockey goalie who played until the age of 69 at Sky Rink in Manhattan. He was pre
 GIFFORD -- Clarence H. (Bud), died March 23, 2004. My friend and fishing companion for 30 years. To Wink and his wonderful family go our deep condolences on his passing. He will be missed. Jack & Susan Rudin & Family       
 HAUSMAN--Leo. The Board of Directors and staff of The Lown Cardiovascular Research Foundation are deeply saddened by the passing of our long-time friend and benefactor, Leo Hausman. As a dedicated member of our Board of Directors, Leo gave generously his gifts of counsel, insight, candor an
 HYLAND--George. Age 72, died of natural causes on March 11 in NYC. Worked as a fund raiser for City Center of Music and Drama, Inc. Born and raised in Connecticut where he was buried on March 16. Survived by nieces, nephews and his longtime companion, Richard Bell.       
 McGILL--Douglas B. A Mayo Clinic physician, educator, and administrator since 1958 and a former president of the American Gastroenterological Association, he died on February 21 of pneumonia, at age 74. He is survived by his wife, Jean Perkins McGill, four children, and three grandchildren.
 MOGIL -- Kenneth. Beloved husband of Randi, father of Bari and Dylan, brother of Jeffrey and Robert, son of Merle and the late Alvin Mogil. Ken was a partner in the Mogil Organization, an insurance management firm based in New York City. He was actively involved with the Cornell University 
 SIEGEL--Richard C., 68, died at home in Great Barrington, MA March 19. He is survived by his wife Karen Skelton, his mother Ruth Siegel and his sister and brother-in-law Diane and Alan Spigelman. A memorial will be held. Info karen.skelton@verizon.net       
 SILVERMAN--Rabbi Martin I., D.D. Of Albany, NY. Died March 24, on Kauai. Rabbi Silverman was Rabbi Emeritus of Congregation Beth Emeth in Albany. He was the beloved husband of Phyllis Olshin Silverman; loving father of Sara Silverman (Audrey Valenciano), Amy (Paul) Cohen, and Ethan (Erica) 
 STAVSKY--Rabbi David. The entire Yeshiva University community, and its affiliate Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, mourn the passing of Rabbi David Stavsky, a distinguished Jewish communal leader who served his congregation, Beth Jacob Congregation in Columbus, Ohio for more than 4
 STERNBERG -- Samuel, of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on Thursday, March 25th, 2004 at the age of 81. Beloved and devoted husband of his wife of 57 years, Beverly (nee Tartell), cherished father of Wilma, Marcia, and Stuart, adored grandfather of Marissa, Morgen, Sandy, Jake, Natalie, and Ella,
 TANCER--Michael. Dearest husband of Francine Tancer for 55 years, passed away on March 24 after a long and beautiful life. Loving and greatly loved in return by his devoted daughters Joan and Susan and son-in-law Les Tolchin, granddaughter Jennifer and grandson Eric and sister Frances Decke
 WHITMAN--Charles I. With much sadness his family mourns his passing at 79 on March 23, 2004. Born in Manhattan, former resident of Garden City, NY, Yale alum, Lt. j.g. US Navy, WWII. Enjoyed a distinguished, lifelong career in copper research and power metallurgy. Devoted husband, father, g
 WHYTE--John. Our condolences to his family and to all in our Pines community. In addition to John's many other contributions, he was an effective pioneer in promoting the preservation of our beach and environment through his generous support and creative leadership. We will miss him. Congre
 HALPERN--Joel A. 23 years since your tragic accident. Dad has joined you, lying side by side as he chose to be. We miss you and love you forever. Mother       
 BESSELAAR--G. Hein, M.D., Ph.D., 70, Chairman of the Board of PharmaNet Inc, an international drug development company, died on March 13, in Madrid, Spain. In 1976, he founded G.H. Besselaar Associates and built it into a worldwide leader in outsourced clinical drug development. Corning Inc
 HYLAND--George. Age 72, died of natural causes on March 11 in NYC. Worked as a fund raiser for City Center of Music and Drama, Inc. Born and raised in Connecticut where he was buried on March 16. Survived by nieces, nephews and his longtime companion, Richard Bell.       
 LANE--Walter E. Of Riverdale, NY, died on March 28, 2004. He is survived by Ellen, his wife of 59 years, his children Ron and Miriam Lane, and Patty and Dean Miller, eight grandchildren and three sisters. We will miss him. He loved his family, music, bridge and learning.       
 LOUBET--Nathaniel R. 86, of Heritage Hills, Somers, NY, and formerly of Scarsdale and Pound Ridge, NY, died on March 25, 2004. Loving and beloved husband of Joan F. Loubet; father of Jeffrey Loubet, Trudie Loubet and Joni Loubet-LaBonte; grandfather of Thom Loubet, Kaitlyn and Christina Lou
 MOGIL -- Kenneth. Beloved husband of Randi, father of Bari and Dylan, brother of Jeffrey and Robert, son of Merle and the late Alvin Mogil. Ken was a partner in the Mogil Organization, an insurance management firm based in New York City. He was actively involved with the Cornell University 
 ROSENTHAL--John P. On March 27, 2004 in LaQuinta, CA at age 71. Cherished husband of Jacqueline. Loving father of John Paul, Jr., Laura Riese and her husband Jeff, Ronald Rothstein and his wife Karyn and Lisa Rosenthal. Adoring grandfather of Allison, Marina and Jordan. Dear brother of Pete
 ROTHE--Tyge Ernst. Of Greenwich, CT, and Espergaerde, Denmark, passed away Tuesday, 23 March, at the age of 95. Born 29 April, 1908, and raised in Copenhagen, Denmark, he was the son of Ernst and Ebba Sorensen and brother of Ellen Olrik, and Eigil. He worked as an export salesman and then e
 TANCER--Michael. The Mike Tancer bridge group has lost its esteemed leader. We will miss him very much. Jack A., Mike C., Irv M. Bob S. and Bert S.       
 WEIN--Stewart A. On March 27, 2004. Never was there such an adoring husband to Ina, father to Marc, Evan and Terri, Ilene and Adam, grandfather to Michael, Alex, Samantha, Maxwell, Casey, Julia, Nicholas, Brett and Lauren, brother to Donald and Dorothy. We will never forget his sense of hum
 CORDON--Jim ''He has lived--therefore he lives'' Yves Klein. Richar       
 Richard Perez, a South Bronx teacher who became a well-known advocate for human rights and social justice for Hispanics and other minorities, died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 59. Mr. Perez died of prostate cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, said his wife, Martha Lau
 Edward J. Piszek, who once made too many deviled crab cakes for a local bar and threw the extras in a freezer, an accident that led to a frozen seafood empire, Mrs. Paul's Kitchens, died on Saturday at his home in Fort Washington, Pa. He was 87. The cause was bone cancer, his son Ed
 ABRAMSON--Lillian. New Alternatives for Children extends heartfelt sympathies to our attorney James Abramson on the loss of his beloved mother. Elizabeth S. Pforzheimer, President Arlene Goldsmith, Executive Director       
 CORRELL--James Sr., MD. The Department of Neurological Surgery of the New York Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University notes with sadness the passing of Dr. James W. Correll in Hampstead, NC on Friday, March 26, 2004. Dr. Correll spent his entire career in our Department from 1955-1987. 
 FITZSIMONS--John F. on March 28, 2004 at age 96. Never without his Homburg and tie. A long time fixture of Forest Hills Gardens, NY. Loving husband of the late Gertrude McLoughlin FitzSimons, father of Ellen Ann (Chamberlain) and John H. and grandfather of Colby and Elizabeth Chamberlain an
 HAMILTON--George Heard. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of our Life Trustee George Heard Hamilton. His scholarship was unparalleled, and the art historians whom he trained and influenced are innumerable. As Chairman of the Committee on Paintin
 HERMAN--Howard R. Most beloved and loving husband of Arline. Devoted father of Joshua and Melissa Herman, and Rachel and Andrew Scheff. Adored grandfather of Matthew and Lauren Scheff, and Dylan and Olivia Herman. Beloved brother of Lovey and Murray Beer, Paul and Malka Herman, and Alan and
 LOUBET--Nathaniel R. We remember with great fondness our close friend of nearly 65 years with whom we enjoyed countless wonderful times. May all the Loubets be comforted by the cherished memory of his verve and spirit. Sam and Nancy Gordon and family       
 MIRON--Julie. Of New York, Boston and Palm Beach, at Miami Beach on March 28, 2004 after a brief illness. Founder and Chairman of Miron Building Products and its affiliated companies in New York and Florida. He was a visionary in pioneering a full service source from the foundation to the r
 MITTLEMANN -- David, March 28, 2004. Never goodbye and never farewell, if only there was one more joke to tell. We know we'll find you wherever we go, we can picture you now, giving heaven quite a show. Lemon ice king, heroes, golf, Brown, OTB, Drinks at 5. You loved life, your wife and all
 QUINN--John G., 62, of Pinehurst, NC, died Saturday, March 27, 2004 at First Health Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst. He is survived by his wife, Joan, his two sisters, Ellen Anderson and Kathleen Quinn Schmidt, and ten nieces and nephews. The family will receive friends on Tuesday from
 ROSENTHAL--John P. On March 27, 2004 in LaQuinta, CA at age 71. Cherished husband of Jacqueline. Loving father of John Paul, Jr., Laura Riese and her husband Jeff, Ronald Rothstein and his wife Karyn and Lisa Rosenthal. Adoring grandfather of Allison, Marina and Jordan. Dear brother of Pete
 SACK--John, one of the founders of the new genre of literary journalism, died in San Francisco on March 27. The author of ten books and numerous magazine articles, he was a correspondent in every major war fought by the U.S. from Korea to Afghanistan. Earlier in his career, he was a writer,
 SACKETT--Sidney A., D.D.S. On March 27. Dr. Sackett graduated from the University of Michigan School of Dentistry in 1938. He served in the U.S. Army in World War II, after which he practiced dentistry in New York City for 47 years. He is survived by Gloria Sackett, his wife of 25 years, th
 SCHULMAN--Dr. David. Died on Sunday, March 28th, 2004 of complications from Parkinson's disease at his home in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Gloria Yevish Schulman, cherished father of Sarah Schulman, Helen Schulman & Charlie Schulman. Loving father-in-law of Bruce Handy and Juliet Bellow, 
 USTINOV--Sir Peter, who worked for global governance and peace through international institutions such as the International Criminal Court. We will all miss his leadership as president of World Federalist Movement. World Federalist Association Greater New York Chapter       
 WEIN--Stewart. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stewart Wein, beloved father of Evan and Teri Wein, whose generosity on behalf of the New York Jewish community has touched the lives of so many. We extend our deepest sympathies to
 WENTWORTH--Brother Timothy FSC, Guidance Counselor at Manhattan College, former Director of Novices and former Provincial of the New York Province of the De La Salle Christian Brothers, on March 28 after a prolonged illness. The son of the late Raymond and Julie Wentworth, of Mattydale, NY,
 Peter Ustinov, the hair-trigger wit with the avuncular charm whose 60-year career amounted to a revolving series of star turns as actor, playwright, novelist, director and raconteur, died on Sunday at a clinic near his home in Bursins, Switzerland. He was 82. Sir Peter had suffered 
 Alistair Cooke, the urbane and erudite British-born journalist who became a peerless observer of the American scene for more than 70 years, died at his home in Manhattan, the BBC said yesterday. He was 95. A BBC spokesman said Mr. Cooke's daughter, Susan Cooke Kittredge, had contact
 Art James, a host and announcer for television game shows, died on Sunday in Palm Springs, Calif., where he was visiting. He was 74 and lived in Chaska, Minn. He died of natural causes, said his brother, Leo James; the exact cause was not known, pending an autopsy. Art James
 John Sack, a pioneer of New Journalism who was best known for his reporting from the battlefields of Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, Yugoslavia and Afghanistan, died Saturday in San Francisco. He was 74. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, according to an announcement from Esquire
 BENNETT -- Robert Porter. On Friday, March 19, 2004 in Los Angeles, CA. Age 44. He was a cinematographer. Born in New York City, he received degrees from Colorado College and The American Film Institute. He is survived by his wife Cynthia Johnson Bennett of Los Angeles, his parents Robert a
 BULL--Cornelius H. III. Of Peterborough, NH. 78, educator, school headmaster and founder of the Center for INTERIM Programs, died peacefully after a long illness on March 16 at his home in Peterborough, NH. Mr. Bull is survived by his wife, Mary Bull of Peterborough, NH and Cambridge, MA; t
 CAMPBELL -- J. Kenneth (Ken), Sr. Of Saltaire, NY, and Rye, NY (formerly of Delray Beach, FL., and Garden City, NY). 83, in a tragic fire. Predeceased by his loving wife, Dorothea (nee Burke), and survived by his seven loving children, Carol, J. Kenneth Jr., Barbara Rosenblum, Richard, Mary
 COOKE--Alistair. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Thirteen/WNET, we lament the passing of Alistair Cooke and extend our sympathies to his wife and children. A broadcaster of extraordinary sophistication, wit and class, he was one of public television's most admire
 GEWERTZ--Sid. 86, died March 13. An electro-plater for 55 years, owner of Techem, avid handball-player, photographer, a man of unflagging good-humor, Sid will be missed by his wife of 61 years, Adrienne, and sons Ken and Dan. Information on service April 3, 617-868-4867.       
 HAMILTON--George Heard. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of our Life Trustee George Heard Hamilton. His scholarship was unparalleled, and the art historians whom he trained and influenced are innumerable. As Chairman of the Committee on Paintin
 HERMAN--Howard R. Most beloved and loving husband of Arline. Devoted father of Joshua and Melissa Herman, and Rachel and Andrew Scheff. Adored grandfather of Matthew and Lauren Scheff, and Dylan and Olivia Herman. Beloved brother of Lovey and Murray Beer, Paul and Malka Herman, and Alan and
 KAPLOW--William. Attorney, on March 29, at 95. He will be mourned by his daughter Iris, grandchildren Jason and Denise, great grandchildren Katya and Tyler, sister-in-law Mimi Silverberg, daughter-inlaw Mary Sue. Service Friday 10 AM at the Riverside, 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 LEVY--Edward. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member who died at the age of 96 and was a member of Metropolis Country Club for 53 years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Helen, his son Jam
 MIRON--Julie. Of New York, Boston and Palm Beach, at Miami Beach on March 28, 2004 after a brief illness. Founder and Chairman of Miron Building Products and its affiliated companies in New York and Florida. He was a visionary in pioneering a full service source from the foundation to the r
 MITTLEMANN -- David, March 28, 2004. Never goodbye and never farewell, if only there was one more joke to tell. We know we'll find you wherever we go, we can picture you now, giving heaven quite a show. Lemon ice king, heroes, golf, Brown, OTB, Drinks at 5. You loved life, your wife and all
 QUINN--John G., 62, of Pinehurst, NC, died Saturday, March 27, 2004 at First Health Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst. He is survived by his wife, Joan, his two sisters, Ellen Anderson and Kathleen Quinn Schmidt, and ten nieces and nephews. The family will receive friends on Tuesday from
 ROSENTHAL--John P. On March 27, 2004 in LaQuinta, CA at age 71. Cherished husband of Jacqueline. Loving father of John Paul, Jr., Laura Riese and her husband Jeff, Ronald Rothstein and his wife Karyn and Lisa Rosenthal. Adoring grandfather of Allison, Marina and Jordan. Dear brother of Pete
 SACK--John, one of the founders of the new genre of literary journalism, died in San Francisco on March 27. The author of ten books and numerous magazine articles, he was a correspondent in every major war fought by the U.S. from Korea to Afghanistan. Earlier in his career, he was a writer,
 SCHULMAN--Dr. David. Died on Sunday, March 28th, 2004 of complications from Parkinson's disease at his home in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Gloria Yevish Schulman, cherished father of Sarah Schulman, Helen Schulman & Charlie Schulman. Loving father-in-law of Bruce Handy and Juliet Bellow, 
 STEIN--Dr. Myron, a pioneer in asthma and pulmonary embolism research, died from pancreatic cancer Monday at his home in Beverly Hills. ''Mike'' graduated the Boston Latin school in 1942, Dartmouth College in 1946 and Tufts University School of Medicine in 1952. His wife, Dr. Pauline Alpert
 STIEGLER--Richard ''Rick'' 47, Chief Technology Officer with Lending Tree, formerly of New York, now of Charlotte, NC, died March 28, 2004. Rick is survived by his wife Cheryl Lemay Stiegler; three daughters, parents: Arthur and Patricia Stiegler of Deer Park, NY; two brothers, Bob and Stev
 STONE--C. Sidney ''Sid'', 90, of Springfield, IL. Formerly of Eastchester New York, died March 28th at his residence. He was born July 29, 1913 in New York, N.Y., the son of Jacob and Sadie Schwartz Stolzenberg. He married Sylvia Alpher on December 24, 1939. She preceded him in death on Apr
 STROHLEIN--Claus G., 63, of Mebane, N.C., died Friday, March 26, 2004, at his home, after a valiant two and a half year battle with cancer. Claus was best known as owner and president of D&S International, a used textile machinery company in Mebane, N.C., since 1982. Claus left an impressio
 SUKNOW--Irving. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida acknowledge with sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irving Suknow. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Francine, and their family. Robert Rachesky, President       
 WENTWORTH--Brother Timothy FSC, Guidance Counselor at Manhattan College, former Director of Novices and former Provincial of the New York Province of the De La Salle Christian Brothers, on March 28 after a prolonged illness. The son of the late Raymond and Julie Wentworth, of Mattydale, NY,
