 George A. Butler, a retired president of the Corestates Financial Corporation, died Aug. 22 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 69 and lived in Blue Bell, Pa. He died of lymphoma, said a son, Thomas S. Butler. Mr. Butler spent his entire
 John Jermain Slocum, a retired Foreign Service officer, scholar and bibliophile whose James Joyce collection formed part of Yale University's trove of rare books, died on Aug. 12 at Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. He was 83 and lived in Newport. A native of Lakewood, N.J., he grad
 Quach Tom, a Vietnamese who parachuted into North Vietnam as a commando for the Central Intelligence Agency, evaded capture for three months and then survived almost 19 years of harsh imprisonment as a spy, died on Wednesday at the Columbia Northlake Regional Medical Center in Chamblee, Ga.
 Prof. Richard Skalak, a pioneer in bioengineering and biomechanics who taught at Columbia University in New York for more than 40 years, died on Aug. 17 at his home in San Diego. He was 74. The cause was melanoma, said a spokeswoman for the University of California at San Diego, whe
 Dr. Ernest Schwarcz, a dean emeritus at Queens College of City University who raised its continuing-education enrollment from dozens to thousands of older adults seeking degrees or just recharging their minds, died last Tuesday after being struck by a car near his home in Fresh Meadows, Que
 John F. Eichorn Jr., a retired chairman and chief executive of Eastern Utilities Associates who played a significant role in completing the Seabrook nuclear plant in New Hampshire, died of cancer on Aug. 19. He was 73 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Eichorn headed Eastern, an 
 Sam Chase, a broadcasting and publishing executive who won awards for programming dealing with civil rights, died of natural causes on Aug. 11 in Mexico, his son, Bradley, said. He was 80. A radio program that Mr. Chase, who was white, created and produced won a Peabody Award in 196
 Sir Rudolf Bing, who as the dapper and acerbic general manager of the Metropolitan Opera from 1950 to 1972 ushered the company into the modern era and into Lincoln Center, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. He was 95 and lived at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale in
 Viktor E. Frankl, who used his experiences as a prisoner in German concentration camps in World War II to write ''Man's Search for Meaning,'' an enduring work of survival literature, and to open new avenues for modern psychotherapy, died on Tuesday in Vienna. He was 92 and was considered to
 Aldo Rossi, the Italian architect known for works of monumental simplicity and power, died yesterday in Milan, where he lived. He was 66. His Manhattan office said he died as a result of injuries sustained in a car accident last week as he drove to his weekend home on the Lago Maggi
 DeWitt Peterkin Jr., a former vice chairman and director of J. P. Morgan & Company, died last Friday at Waveny Care Center in New Canaan, Conn. He was 84. The cause of death was heart failure and complications from Parkinson's disease, his wife, Katharine, said. Mr. Peterkin
 Lieut. Col. Edwin Maurice McConnell, the last of the three ''Flying McConnell Brothers'' of World War II whose name was given to an air base in Kansas, died on Monday at his home in Englewood, Colo. He was 76. He had suffered for some time from leukemia and Parkinson's disease, his 
 The Most Rev. Joseph A. Francis, an auxiliary bishop of Newark for 19 years who was one of the first black priests in the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church to speak out against racism, died on Monday at the Claridge House, a home for retired priests in Verona, N.J. He was 73. T
 Joseph Thomas O'Keefe, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Syracuse from 1987 to 1995 and temporary head of the Archdiocese of New York for six months in the early 1980's, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Syracuse. He was 78 and lived in Syracuse. The cause was heart 
 Ronald L. Bittner, chairman of the Frontier Corporation, the corporate parent of Rochester Telephone, died Sunday at his home in Pittsford, N.Y., two weeks after he stepped down as chief executive. Mr. Bittner was 55. Mr. Bittner underwent surgery on Dec. 31, 1996, to remove a brain
 Sir Georg Solti, the vigorous and exacting Hungarian-born conductor who shaped the Chicago Symphony Orchestra into a gleaming virtuoso instrument during his 22 years as its music director, and who won more Grammy Awards than any other performer, classical or pop, died yesterday while visiti
 Bradley Smith, a photographer for Life magazine and a founder of the American Society of Magazine Photographers, died on Aug. 28 at a nursing home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 87 and lived in La Jolla. Mr. Smith was born in New Orleans on June 30, 1910. The son of a railroad telegraph
 Ernst C. Stiefel, a German-born Jewish lawyer whose answer to Adolf Hitler was to become one of Germany's pre-eminent lawyers -- while practicing in New York -- died on Wednesday at a hospital in Baden-Baden. He was 89. In a half-century of advising American corporate investors on t
 Harold Elwood Yuker, a psychologist who defied the cerebral palsy with which he was born to become a leading educator at Hofstra University and an authority on attitudes toward the disabled, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Bellmore, N.Y. He was 73. The cause of death was hypertension
 Dr. Martin Cherkasky, a renowned hospital administrator who in three decades at Montefiore Medical Center built it into a respected teaching institution, and who as a top adviser to Mayor Edward I. Koch oversaw changes to the city's Medical Examiner's office in the late 1980's, died at his 
 Jack Avrett, the co-chairman and founder of Avrett, Free & Ginsberg, an advertising agency, died on Aug. 29 at New York Hospital. He was 68. The cause of death was a hemorrhagic stroke, his wife, Roz, said. Mr. Avrett started the Project Group, which evolved into Avrett, Fre
 Leon Edel, the biographer whose writing on Henry James won a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award, died on Friday in Honolulu. He was 89 and lived in Honolulu. Mr. Edel's wife, the former Marjorie Putnam, said he collapsed at home from what she thought was a heart attack and was
 Mobutu Sese Seko, Zaire's longtime dictator and the last of a generation of cold war rulers who grew fabulously rich by providing a bulwark against Communism, died in exile yesterday in Rabat, Morocco, after a long battle with prostate cancer. He was 66 years old. Having held Zaire 
 Derek Taylor, a publicity spokesman for the Beatles, the Byrds, the Beach Boys and other groups in the 1960's, and the author of several books that captured the spirit of the era, died on Sunday at his home near Sudbury, in Suffolk, England. He was 65. Geoff Baker, a friend, said th
 John A. Esposito, a former Republican State Assemblyman who ran for mayor of New York on the Conservative Party ticket in 1981, died on Sunday in Garden City, N.Y., at the home of a daughter. He was 69. He died after long battle with lung cancer, said another daughter, Patricia Todd
 Hans J. Eysenck, one of the most distinguished, prolific and maddeningly perverse psychologists of his generation, died on Sept. 4 at a hospice in London. He was 81. Dr. Eysenck had been suffering from a malignant brain tumor for about a year, said Shirley Chumbley, his longtime sec
 Richie Ashburn, the Hall of Fame center fielder who starred for the Philadelphia Phillies' pennant-winning Whiz Kids of 1950 and concluded his career as the lone All-Star and designated quipster for the original Mets of 1962, died yesterday. He was 70. Ashburn, a broadcaster for the
 Sabatino Moscati, an expert on Semitic languages whose work as an archeologist led him to champion the influence of Semitic peoples like the Phoenicians on the development of European culture, died at his home here on Monday. He was 74. Though known in scholarly circles for his exca
 Burgess Meredith, a virtuosic actor whose career spanned most of the 20th century and a multitude of performing arts, died on Tuesday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 89. In the 1930's, he was hailed for his performances on Broadway in ''Winterset'' and two other Maxwell Anderso
 Lionel Chapman, an award-winning producer for ABC News, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack, an ABC spokesman said. Mr. Chapman, who worked in broadcast news for 20 years, joined ABC News in 1977 and became a producer for ''Nightl
 Lyle M. Nelson, who played a leading role in several graduate fellowship programs, including the John S. Knight Fellowships program at Stanford University, died on Friday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 79. The cause of death was heart failure, his wife, Corrine, said.       
 Maurice Levine, the founder and artistic director of the Lyrics and Lyricists series at the 92d Street Y, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke, said Kate Cohen, associate director of public relations at t
 Michel Stuart, a member of the original company of ''A Chorus Line'' and later a costume designer and theatrical producer, died on Sunday in an automobile accident in Malibu, Calif. He was 54, and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Stuart (whose first name was pronounced Michael) was born in
 George Louis Schaefer, an award-winning producer and director who worked in television, theater and film, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 76. He died after a long illness, his family said. In a career spanning 60 years, Mr. Schaefer directed nearly 100 t
 Isidore Englander, a civil liberties lawyer who was a founder of the National Lawyers' Guild, died on Sept. 4 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Englander, who was born in Lublin, Poland, and whose original first name was Itzhak, came to the United State
 James R. Phelan, an author and a dogged investigative reporter who made a crusade out of exposing the reclusive billionaire Howard R. Hughes, died on Monday at his home in Temecula, Calif. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, Janet Phelan, a daughter, said yesterday. Mr. Ph
 Robert Pinget, a Swiss-born novelist and playwright who first won recognition as a member of the Nouveau Roman literary movement in France in the late 1950's, died in a hospital in Tours on Aug. 25 at the age of 78. The cause of death was a stroke,  French newspapers reported.      
 Camille Henry, whose frail physical stature and artistry with a stick made him one of New York's most beloved hockey players in the 1950's and 60's, died in Quebec on Thursday. He was 64. The cause of death was diabetes, The Associated Press reported. Henry had been admitted to St. 
 Carl Franz Hinshaw Jr., a self-taught chef who transformed Chalet Suzanne of Lake Wales, Fla., from a small but well-known family-run bistro into a critically acclaimed restaurant, died on Sept. 4 at his home near the restaurant just north of here. He was 75. The cause was cancer, h
 Edgar Kaplan, one of the greatest figures in the world of bridge, died on Sunday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 72. He had suffered from cancer for several years, his sister-in-law, Sylvia Kaplan, said. In a bridge career spanning half a century, Mr. 
 Edward Wyllis Scripps, a newspaper executive and philanthropist who built a publishing company independent of his family's newspaper empire, died on Sept. 4 at his farm in Charlottesville, Va. He was 88. Mr. Scripps was the chairman and president of the Scripps League Newspapers fro
 Ronald M. Rosenfeld, an important figure in the ''creative revolution'' that swept the advertising industry in the 1960's and 1970's, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital from complications of a stroke he suffered in 1991. He was 65. Mr. Rosenfeld was born in Baltimore, where he s
 Jerry C. Jacobs, a pediatrician and leading authority on rheumatoid arthritis in children, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. He was 66 and also had a home in Riverdale, the Bronx. The cause was cancer, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center said. Dr. Jacob
 Milton Rubincam, a dogged and inspired researcher who spent the better part of his life swinging through family trees, sometimes finding plums, sometimes snapping off favorite branches, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. Mr. Rubincam, who lived in Hyattsville, Md., was 88 
 Dr. Roger Olaf Egeberg, a blunt  Democrat who criticized the Nixon Administration while he was its chief health officer, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, said his son, Olaf. Before Dr. Egeberg was named to the health post by Presi
 Eddie O'Toole, the United States national champion in the 10,000-meter run from 1946 to 1948, died last Friday at South Nassau Hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, his son Kevin said. O'Toole, who graduated from Manhattan College, competed in 
 Edward Artinian, the founder and publisher of Chatham House Publishers, died on Sept. 9 at his home in Chatham, N.J. He was 61. The cause of death was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the publishing company said. Mr. Artinian founded Chatham, which specializes in political s
 George W. Crockett Jr., a civil rights warrior who went over the top so often in the battle for racial justice that he earned a decade of bemused retirement in Congress, died on Sept. 7 at a hospice near his home in Washington. He was 88 and had represented a Detroit district in the House o
 Dr. Giovanni Di Chiro, chief of neuroimaging at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, died on Aug. 27 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Barbara. Dr. Di Chiro was a pioneer in imaging the central nervous system
 John Marshall Leddy, a former senior official of the State and Treasury Departments whose Government career was interrupted by a confrontation with Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in 1953, died on Aug. 31 at Fairfax Hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 83. Mr. Leddy retired from the State Dep
 Aron Broches, who was general counsel of the World Bank for 20 years until he retired in 1979, died on Sept. 9 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington after a brief illness, his son, Paul, said yesterday. He was 83. Mr. Broches, who was known as Ronnie, graduated from the Un
 After William R. Ferris left a teaching position at Yale University 18 years ago to become founding director of the University of Mississippi's Center for the Study of Southern Culture, he wandered through dormitory hallways with his Gibson guitar, playing the blues for any student he thoug
 Sheik Abdullah al-TarikiSheik Abdullah al-Tariki, Saudi Arabia's first oil minister and a founder of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, died on Sept. 7 at the age of 80. His death was announced Wednesday by the Saudi Embassy in Cairo, which said that Sheik Tariki had
 Will Hare, a veteran character actor and a founding member of the Actors Studio, died on Aug. 31 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Weehawken, N.J. He died of a heart attack after collapsing onstage during a rehearsal at the Actors Studio, said his agent, Jer
 The Rev. Abraham K. Akaka, who as Hawaii's most widely known clergyman led the historic Kawaiahao Church in Honolulu for three decades, died on Sept. 10 in Honolulu. He was 80 years old. Mr. Akaka, the brother of Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii, died at Queen's Medical C
 Paul W. Brechler, the youngest athletic director in Big Ten history and later the first commissioner of the Western Athletic Conference, died last Saturday at his home in Denver. He was 86 years old. In 1947, when he was 37, Brechler was named athletic director at the University of 
 William N. Oatis, an Associated Press correspondent in Prague whose name entered cold war history when the Czechoslovak Communist Government forced him to confess falsely to espionage and held him prisoner from 1951 to 1953, died yesterday in Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was
 Red Skelton, a master of mime and clowning whose gentle humor captivated generations of Americans, died yesterday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84. In the early 1940's, Mr. Skelton's radio comedy show rivaled such formidable competitors as Bob Hope and Fibber McGee a
 Daniel Meenan, a television and radio news reporter whose gravel-voiced delivery was known to nearly every cabby in New York City for three decades, died at New York University Medical Center on Monday. He was 75 and had spent most of his time on Shelter Island since his retirement in 1988.
 Georges Guetary, the French singing star best known to American audiences as Gene Kelly's rival for the affections of Leslie Caron in the Oscar-winning 1951 film ''An American in Paris,'' died on Saturday in a clinic in Mougins on the French Riviera. Mr. Guetary, who lived in Cannes, was 82
 Eugene Lehner, a violinist in the Boston Symphony Orchestra for 43 years and the violist in the Kolisch Quartet in the 1920's and 30's, died on Sept. 13 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 91. Mr. Lehner was born in Hungary in 1906, and performed as a self-taught violinist from the 
 John C. Liebeskind, a leading researcher in the study of pain and its relation to health, died on Sept. 8 in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived here. The cause was cancer, according to the University of California at Los Angeles, where he was a professor of psychology and anesthesiolo
 Timothy Joyce, a pioneer in the field of magazine readership research, died on Sept. 13 in Manhattan. He was 63 years old. Mr. Joyce had long been suffering from hepatitis, said Alain Tessier, a friend and business colleague. Mr. Joyce was born, raised and educated in Britai
 Arthur T. Roth, a driving force in the consumer banking business and in the development of Long Island,  died Wednesday at his home in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 91. Mr. Roth built the Franklin National Bank from a tiny branch in Franklin Square on Long Island into what became th
 Stanley N. Garfinkel, a historian and documentary film producer, died on Monday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 67 and lived in Cleveland. The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokesman for Kent State University in Kent, Ohio, where Mr. Garfinkel taught for more than 30
 George Champion, a former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 93. Mr. Champion joined the Chase National Bank in New York as a second vice president in 1933, and he remained with the company until he retired in 1969. He was pr
 Henri Bendel, the founder of Belgian Shoes and a former president of the fabled Manhattan specialty store founded by his uncle in 1909, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Bendel assumed the presidency of the store in 1935 after the death of his uncle, for whom h
 Jimmy Witherspoon, one of the great postwar blues singers and a figure who naturally bridged the worlds of blues and jazz, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 74. He died in his sleep, said Michael James, his booking agent. Mr. Witherspoon (nicknamed Spoon) w
 The Rev. Dr. John Seldon Whale, a Congregational historian and theologian who taught, lectured and preached in New York, New Jersey and elsewhere in the United States and his native Britain, died last Wednesday after moving to a nursing home in Edinburgh. He was 100 and had lived in southwe
 Samuel Lurie, a veteran dance and music publicity agent, died on Sept. 11 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 88 and lived in West Hollywood. Mr. Lurie died after a brief illness, said Stanley Kaminsky, his longtime business associate and companion of 43 years. M
 Stanley Grover, a longtime supporting player on Broadway and in numerous touring musicals who also acted in films and on television, died on Aug. 24 at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 71. Early in his career, Mr. Grover, who was born in Woodstock, 
 Walter A. Spiro, the chairman of Earle Palmer Brown/Philadelphia, an advertising agency, died on Tuesday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 74. The cause of death was cancer, said John Moscatelli, a senior vice president and associate general manager at the agency. Mr. Spir
 Eddie Sawyer, who never played in the major leagues but managed the Philadelphia Phillies' 1950 Whiz Kids team to the franchise's first National League pennant in 35 years, died yesterday in Phoenixville, Pa., after a brief illness. Sawyer, who lived in Valley Forge, Pa., was 87. A 
 Timothy Wadsworth Stanley, an authority on defense policy who served in the 1960's as assistant to Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara for NATO force planning and then as a defense adviser, with the rank of minister, in the United States mission to NATO, died on Sunday at his home in Wa
 William L. Rowe, a nationally syndicated newspaper columnist who became New York City's first black deputy police commissioner, died on Thursday at Glen Island Care Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82. The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Isadora, said. M
 Herbert X. Blyden, the jail-hardened, prison-educated civil rights activist who gave eloquent voice to 1,200 beleaguered inmates as their chief negotiator during the 1971 Attica prison uprising, died on Sunday at a hospice in Buffalo. He was 61. His wife, Elaine, said the cause was 
 Matt Christopher, whose more than 120 sports novels for children and young adults entranced two generations of American youth and sold six million copies worldwide, died Saturday at the Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte, N.C. He was 80 years old. His family said he died of compl
 George Thomas, a former Speaker of the House of Commons whose cry of ''Order, Order!'' in his distinctive lilting Welsh accent became a British catch phrase, died on Monday in Cardiff, the Welsh capital. Created  Viscount Tonypandy when he joined  the House of Lords in 1983, he was 88.     
 Abe Gibron, who left his mark on professional football as a player, coach, wisecracker and gourmand, died on Tuesday at home in Belleair, Fla. He turned 72 the day before and had been confined to home since strokes in December and February. Gibron played guard on offense and nose gu
 David B. Kelly, who modernized the New Jersey State Police during his tenure as its Superintendent from 1965 to 1974, but who later retired  after being criticized by his own men as a harsh disciplinarian, died Sunday in the John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 79. 
 George L. Hinman, a longtime political adviser to Nelson A. Rockefeller who was also a Republican national committeeman for two decades, died on Sunday at his home in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 91. He had been in declining health in recent months, said a grandson, Robert H. Getz.      
 David J. Kriskovich, who went from serving as a Green Beret in Vietnam to an F.B.I. career where he helped develop the concept of the special weapons team, died on Sept. 17 in a helicopter crash in Bosnia, where he had gone to help that country re-establish its police force. Mr. Kri
 James J. Houlahan, a former advertising executive at the William Esty Company, died on Sept. 18 at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 90 and had lived in Ocean Ridge, Fla. and Martha's Vineyard, Mass. As chief executive of William Esty from 1942 to 1960, Mr. Houlah
 Livio A. Beccaccio, an F.B.I. official who supervised the training of thousands of local police officers who later rose to leadership in their departments nationwide, was among 12 people killed in the crash of a United Nations helicopter in Bosnia on Sept. 17. He was 58 and lived on
 Shoichi Yokoi, a Japanese soldier who hid in the jungles of Guam for 27 years rather than surrender to American forces at the end of World War II, died on Monday of a heart attack. He was 82. Mr. Yokoi returned in 1972 to Japan -- an entirely different country than the one he had la
 Arthur A. Rutledge, who arrived in Hawaii as a young stowaway from Seattle in 1934 and stayed to become one of Hawaii's most powerful union leaders ever, died on Monday at Kaiser Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 90 and lived in Honolulu. The cause of death was heart failure, said 
 Ernest J. Parham, whose riveting account of one of the century's most appalling racial atrocities prompted the Florida Legislature to provide the survivors a measure of compensation more than 70 years after the fact, died last Saturday at a hospital near his home in Orlando. He was 93.     
 Frederick W. Zuckerman, a former treasurer of the Chrysler Corporation, RJR Nabisco and the International Business Machines Corporation, died on Sept. 19 at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan at age 63. The cause was colon cancer, his daughter, Lee Zuckerman, said. Mr. Zuck
 Max Berking, an advertising executive who became an influential figure in Westchester County Democratic politics, died on Wednesday at the home of his daughter, Charlotte Berking Zanecchia, in Alford, Mass. He was 80 and had lived in Northport, Fla., since his retirement in 1982. Th
 T. Emmet Clarie, the Federal judge who presided over the most complex criminal case in Connecticut history -- the six-year-long legal proceedings against Puerto Rican nationalists charged with stealing $7 million in 1983 -- died on Wednesday at Day Kimball hospital in Putnam, Conn. He was 8
 Canio Pavone, the founder of one of Sag Harbor's true institutions, Canio's Books, was reminiscing about how he came to learn Japanese, having already mastered his grandfather'ss native Italian at home, and French and Spanish in college, when the pounding on his store's door began. 
 Gustave Freeman, a pathologist who used animals to show how chronic exposure to low levels of air pollutants can harm the lungs, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 88. His research played a significant role in setting national and global standards for human exp
 Phillip David Marcus Brown, an actor and singer, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 37. The cause was heart failure resulting from a severe asthma attack, his family said. Mr. Brown, who was born in San Francisco, studied acting at the American Academy of Dram
 Victor Szebehely, a theorist of celestial mechanics whose work in the 1950's provided the tools still used to chart the orbits of spacecraft, died on Sept. 13 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Jo Betsy Lewallen. At the Center for Spa
 William M. Miley, the acrobatic officer who transformed ground troops into the Army's first parachute combat unit in 1940, then led the famous jump across the Rhine that helped sound the Geronimo death knell for Nazi Germany in 1945, died on Wednesday at his home in Starkville, Miss. He was
 Cary Lu, a scientist, author and film maker known for his ability to explain science and technology to children and adults, died of cancer on Wednesday, according to his wife. He lived in Kirkland, Wash., and was 51 years old. Mr. Lu worked in television for several years for NBC an
 Joel Hilton Fisher, a Washington lawyer who helped recover gold, silver and artwork looted by the Nazis in World War II, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Baltimore. He was 79. In 1945, as a lieutenant commander in the Coast Guard assigned to the fiscal branch of the Supreme Hea
 Jules L. Green, a television producer, died on Sept. 15 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Green began his career as a film booker in Pittsburgh. After moving to Los Angeles, he worked as Bob Hope's agent before becoming S
 Mason Rankin, a Salt Lake City businessman who had such an abundance of compassion for people with AIDS that he kept scores of volunteer knitters furiously clicking away to supply afghans, sweaters, scarves and hats to people in Utah's H.I.V. community, died on Sept. 21 at a hospital in Sal
 Murray Burnett, the unsung author of the play on which one of America's iconic movies, ''Casablanca,'' was based, died on Tuesday in his apartment in Manhattan at the age of 86. As a 27-year-old English teacher at a New York vocational high school, Mr. Burnett went to German-occupie
 Pedro de Castro Van Dunem, a former Angolan Foreign Minister who led important negotiations for his country's Government, died on Tuesday in Luanda, the Angolan capital. He was 55. The cause was a heart attack, said the French newspaper Le Monde, which reported his death in its Satu
 Albert Gailord Hart, a former professor of economics at Columbia University known for his research in monetary policy and economic development, died Sept. 19at his home in Sherman, Conn., at the age of 88. Mr. Hart, a graduate of Harvard College who earned his Ph.D. at the Universit
 Dr. Karl F. Koopman, an expert on bats and a former curator at the American Museum of Natural History, died on Sept. 22 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, the museum announced on Friday. He was 77. He apparently died of natural causes, said Dr. Nancy Simmons, acting ch
 Herbert A. Einhorn, a retired New York lawyer who specialized in corporate mergers, takeovers and proxy fights, died Sept. 19 at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 84. Mr. Einhorn was a co-author of several books dealing with legal and policy questions in takeovers and the mechanics 
 John F. McMahon Jr., president of Volunteers of America from 1958 until retiring in 1979, died on Tuesday in Louisville, Ky. He was 87. Mr. McMahon was the organization's first national president who did not come from relatives of Ballington and Maud Booth, who founded Volunteers of
 Milton R. Friedman, a real estate lawyer and scholar who wrote several standard works on property law, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Friedman, a graduate of Yale College and Yale Law School, was a law clerk, then known as law secretary, to Judges Learned 
 Roy Lichtenstein, the quintessential master of Pop painting and a major figure in American art since he began scavenging comics like ''Winnie Winkle,'' ''G.I. Combat'' and ''Secret Hearts'' (''I don't care! I'd rather sink -- than call Brad for help!''), died yesterday at New York Universit
 Samuel Kaynard, a former official with the National Labor Relations Board in Brooklyn and a law professor who helped train many of New York's labor lawyers, died last Tuesday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Roslyn Estates, N.Y. The cause of death was complicat
 Vahakn Nigogosian, a builder and restorer of stringed instruments who operated the Stradivarius Studios on West 57th Street for many years, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Bayside, Queens. He was 87. Mr. Nigogosian was born in Istanbul in 1910, and studied violin making there with K
 Walter Trampler, a violist who was a founding member of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center and who performed and recorded frequently with other chamber ensembles, died on Saturday at his home in Port Joli, Nova Scotia. He was 82 and lived in Port Joli and Manhattan. Mr. Tra
 William Craig, a historian who wrote two best-selling books about World War II, died on Sept. 22 at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 68. The cause was complications from kidney disease, said his son Edward. Mr. Craig was an advertising salesman in 1958 when he appea
 William M. Berger, a former vice chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange who had more than four decades of experience in commodities trading, died on Sept. 20 at St. Mary's Hospital in Rochester, Minn., while undergoing heart surgery. Mr. Berger, a resident of Stamford, Conn., 
