 James R. Cogan, a lawyer who specialized in trusts and estates and was a volunteer for nonprofit organizations, died on Friday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 69. His death was due to lung cancer, according to his wife, Arrial. Mr. Cogan began his legal career in 1953 at 
 BLUMENFELD - Sam. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community here and in Israel, beloved father of Alvin J. (and Lois) Blumenfeld and Marlene (and Sholom) Leiser and cherished brother of Geo
 GREENE-Myron L. (Mike), 79, died suddenly on September 28th, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley, devoted father of James and Robert, father-in-law to Marinita and Debra, loving grandfather of Anthony, Max, Lindsay, Benjamin and Hannah, adoring sisters Gloria Kaye, Arleen Gevanthor, loving sis
 LICHTENSTEIN - Roy. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Roy Lichtenstein. From a vast array of sources in our common culture, he fashioned an art of sharp sophistication that was humorous, ironic, elegant, and continually inventive. His brashness on canva
 LIEBMAN-Charles J., a scholar, author and collector, died on September 24, 1997. He was 87 years old. Mr. Liebman attended Harvard College and subsequently moved to Paris to study at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes. He received his diploma after submitting a thesis entitled ''La Vie Prose de St
 McCLINTOCK-John T. The Board of Directors of Amsterdam Nursing Home records with sorrow the passing of our esteemed former director, John T. McClintock, on September 25, 1997. Mr. McClintock served from 1953, when we were known as the Home for Old Men and Aged Couples, to April of 1987. Des
 MOOS-Charles. The Board and staff of the League Treatment Center mourn the passing of our former president Charles Moos. We send our sympathies and best wishes to his son Joel and his entire family.       
 NADAL-Carlos G., at Southampton, N.Y., on September 28, 1997. Mr. Nadal was born in New YorK City on January 29, 1912, and was highly decorated during his service with the U.S. Marine Corps in World War II. In 1946 he founded Nadal & Baxendale, Inc., a general contracting firm, and was acti
 NORTHROP-Stuart Johnston, in Scottsdale, Arizona on September 27, 1997 at age 71 after a long illness. Retired Chairman and CEO of the Huffy Corporation of Dayton, Ohio and a Director of numerous other companies, including BancOne Corporation and Dayton Power and Light Company. Resident of 
 RICHMAN-Philip C. Passed away after a long illness at the age of 91. Beloved and faithful husband to his loving wife Edith for 51 years. Devoted father to Larry, his wonderful and caring son and companion, who loved his father deeply. Respected and well loved brotherin-law to his wife's fam
 ROSS-Daniel G. On September 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Grace Jarcho Ross. Loving father of Ann & Michael Loeb, James & Laura Ross, Lynn & Edward Rosenfeld. Adored grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of 6. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday 7-9
 SOFFER-Stuart, 55. On 9/26/97. He was the Supervisor of Music for the Bedford School District in Westchester. He is survived by his mother, Marion, adored sister, Janet, and brother, Marvin. Services were held Sunday.       
 STONE-James Robert Jr., ''Bobby'' 61, died at home on 9/2/97. He is survived by former wives Alice Jacqueline Marsh and Patricia Holmes, a brother Thomas H. Stone and wife Merna, an uncle, several cousins, and many friends. Viewing 3-9 P.M. Wednesday, Oct. 1 at Nagel Funeral Home, 352 East 
 TRAMPLER-Walter. The Board of Directors, Artists and Staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center mourn the loss of our beloved colleague and friend Walter Trampler. A distinguished violist and founding Artist Member of the Chamber Music Society, Walter delighted our audiences for 2
 WILLIAMS-Millard J. Concert singer and long time resident of Teaneck, NJ. Died in Bermuda, on Saturday, September 22. He was 78. Mr. Williams studied at The Toronto Conservatory of Music winning a Canadian National Exhibition Prize. Later working in New York he was awarded The Martha Baird 
 DENERSTEIN-Ezra J. Today on his birthday and every day we remember with love our dearest father and grandfather. Susan and Harris       
 Marvin Rothenberg, a director who staged some of the most memorable television moments of the 1950's and 60's -- all during commercial breaks -- died last Thursday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 79. His family said the cause was cancer. If his career had followe
 LICHTENSTEIN - Roy. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Roy Lichtenstein. From a vast array of sources in our common culture, he fashioned an art of sharp sophistication that was humorous, ironic, elegant, and continually inventive. His brashness on canva
 MASSABNI - Nicholas. Beloved brother of Norma Feanny. Graduated from Pace University in Finance. His first job was with Brythe, Eastman & Dillon who were subsequently bought out by Paine Webber with whom he worked with as Vice President until he retired in 1995.       
 MICKOLIC-Laurence. The Fresh Air Fund mourns the loss of its beloved staff member, Laurence Mickolic. Larry dedicated 29 years of his life to working tirelessly on behalf of our Fresh Air children. He was admired for his commitment, leadership and warmth. He will be remembered with fondness
 NOVECK-Lawrence. Larry Noveck, 92, died peacefully, on Friday, September 26, 1997, at Palm Beach, Florida. He was the loving husband for thirty years of Carolyn Schnurer Noveck, a wellknown Coty Award winning fashion designer. He is most lovingly remembered by his daughter, Jane Blyn Stromp
 QUINTAVALLE-Joseph T. The Regis High School Board of Trustees, Administration, Faculty and Students mourn the loss of Joseph T. Quintavalle. Joseph was an alumnus, Class of 1930, and former faculty member. Joe has left an indelible impression on the students and the Regis community where he
 ROSS-Daniel G. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Daniel G. Ross, a leader in the Jewish community and the father-in-law of Laura Ross, a trustee. JBFCS extends its deepest sympathy to Ms. Ross and her family. Seymour R
 STYLES-James G. The Board of Directors and membership of the Junior League of Northern Westchester extend their heartfelt condolences to Ann Styles, past president; her children, Gordon and Connor, and their entire family. His warmth and generosity of spirit will be remembered and cherished
 TRAMPLER-Walter. The Board of Directors and staff of Young Audiences/New York mourn the passing of our esteemed Advisory Council member. We will deeply miss his commitment to the arts and the children of New York. We extend our condolences to his family. Stephen Gray, President       
 YOUNGBERG-Robert W. On September 30, 1997 at the age of 70. Of East Norwich, New York. Beloved husband of Claire. Cherished father of Christine, and Robert W. IV. He is pre-deceased by his sister Eileen Fornal. He is survived by his sister-in-law Ruth Schoenemann, and nieces and nephews Kat
 Stanford L. Opotowsky, a former managing editor of The New York Post and director of news coverage for ABC News, died yesterday at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 73. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Known for his fast, clear and colorful writing, Mr. Opotows
 Munir Bashir, a virtuoso oud player who was considered one of the greatest living masters of Arabic classical music, died on Sunday in Budapest. He was 67 and lived in Jordan. The cause was a heart attack, according to Helene Browning of the World Music Institute, which had been sch
 Nobuo Fujita, a Japanese pilot who flew bombing runs over Oregon in 1942, apparently the only time that an enemy aircraft has ever bombed the American mainland, died on Tuesday at a hospital near Tokyo. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, family members said. Mr. Fujita, w
 FERMAN-Robert, on October 1, 1997. Beloved husband of Bernice. Dear father of Pam, Seth (Miriam). Dear brother of Harold, Selma and Herbert (Aphrodite). Bob was much loved by those who knew him. Services Sunday, Oct. 5 at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Contact chapel for time
 LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Parrish Art Museum deeply mourn the passing of Roy Lichtenstein. His wry brilliance enriched the way we all see. We extend our sympathy and heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dorothy and their families. Mildred C. Brinn, Chairman, Boa
 NORTHROP-Stuart Johnston, in Scottsdale, Arizona on Sept. 27, 1997 at age 71 after a long illness. Retired Chairman and CEO of the Huffy Corporation of Dayton, Ohio and a Director of numerous other companies, including BancOne Corporation and Dayton Power and Light Company. Resident of Napl
 REINER-Jules. Caring husband of Norma for fifty-five years. Beloved father of Charles, Elizabeth, Nanette and Barry. ''Head of the herd'' of nine grandchildren. Passed away the evening of October 1, 1997. He was 81. Services at 9 A.M., Sunday, Temple Anshe Amunim, Pittsfield, MA. Interment 
 Stuart Johnston Northrop, a former chairman and chief executive of the Huffy Corporation, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz. Mr. Northrop, a resident of Naples, Fla., was 72. The cause of death was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which is known as Lou Gehrig's di
 Al (Jazzbo) Collins, a disk jockey and television host who broadcast his favorite music from the imaginary Purple Grotto, died on Tuesday. He was 78 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Patti. Mr. Collins was born in Rochester,  the 
 Daniel G. Ross, a lawyer and volunteer who supported education in Israel and services for Jewish immigrants in the United States, died on Monday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 93. Mr. Ross, who specialized in corporate law, was a founder and partner of Becker, Ross, Stone, DeSte
 Frederick P. Haas, a lawyer who became general counsel for the Liggett Group, died after a long illness last Sunday at the Watrous Health Center in Madison, Conn. He was 85. Mr. Haas, a graduate of Yale Law School in 1938, served in the Navy from 1943 to 1945 as a lieutenant command
 James C. Cabrera, vice chairman of the executive search firm Drake Beam Morin Inc., died Tuesday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 62 years old. Mr. Cabrera, who lived in Old Greenwich, Conn., died of cancer, his family said. After graduating from Rider Univer
 Jerome H. Lemelson, a prolific inventor who became a hero to fellow inventors when he dared to force giant corporations to pay him for his ideas, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 74 and lived outside Lake Tahoe, Nev. His family said the cause of death was liver
 John A. Stichnoth, a former vice president and general counsel of the Union Carbide Corporation who helped devise the company's legal strategy following the world's worst industrial disaster in Bhopal, India, died on Wednesday at Danbury Hospital, near his summer home in Ridgefield, Conn. H
 ASHBURN-Frank Davis, age 94, of Westwood on October 2, 1997. Distinguished Headmaster Emeritus of Brooks School, N. Andover, Massachusetts. Beloved husband of Jean (Lang) Ashburn and the late Phyllis (Batcheller) Ashburn. Devoted father of the late Phyllis A. Kissel and Nancy A. Whitaker. H
 ASKENAS-Warren, 63, on September 30, 1997. Husband of Merle. Beloved father of Mitchell and Wendy, and Caren and Gary Cohen. Big Bacca and Grandpa to Lyndsey, Brenna and Robby. Dear brother of Irma and Harold Goshin. You were taken away from us so suddenly, and you will be missed terribly. 
 BRISKIE-Julius on October 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Bess for 59+ years. Loving father of Jane Sylvester of Portland, Oregon. Devoted father-in-law of Robert Sylvester. Adoring grandfather of Jonas Sylvester. Caring brother of Celia Epstein. Dear uncle of Lenore, Howard, Stephen, Jane and 
 FERMAN-Robert. A wonderful man of wisdom, courage and love, adored by his wife, Bernice, his children, Pam and Seth, and the rest of his family, including Miriam, Selma, Harold, and so many other family and friends. Everyone who knew Bob loved him. He was genuine, caring and passionate abou
 LAZAR-Ruth Stolz. Cherished wife of the late Dr Alfred E. Lazar, beloved mother of Laura (Stephen) Siegel, Kenneth S. (Valerie) Lazar and Fran (Dr. Jeffrey) Ashkin; adored grandmother of Shari, Jonathan (Majorie), and David Siegel, Emily and Michael Lazar, Eric, Hillary and Adrienne Ashkin;
 LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The staff and trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art are deeply saddened by the loss of Roy Lichtenstein, truly an American innovator. His brilliance as an artist and commentator captured the essence of American culture during some of its most complex times. We are
 MARGETT-Charles, The Honorable. Retired Justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court. Beloved husband and friend of Doris Rosen. Stepfather of Sanford Rosen. Dear uncle of Ronald and Monte Posner, and cherished granduncle. Services Monday, 1:00PM, at Riverside Nassa
 MIHAI-Eugen, Fr., 84, of St. Mary's Romanian Byzantine Rite Catholic Mission, Astoria, New York. A veteran of W.W. II and 12 years of communist prisons, at age 75 he risked jail by returning to Romania to be ordained, May 18, 1988 in the still banned church. He served well, was loved by all
 PACE-William M., of Chester, Connecticut, died October 2. Born in Yonkers he graduated from Syracuse University and worked for Time Magazine and United Technology, and Bill Pace Assoc Inc. Contributions to The Company of Fifers & Drummers Inc., P.O. Box 525 Ivoryton, CT. 06442.       
 REINER-Jules. Caring husband of Norma for fifty-five years. Beloved father of Charles, Elizabeth, Nanette and Barry. ''Head of the herd'' of nine grandchildren. Passed away the evening of October 1, 1997. He was 81. Services at 9 A.M., Sunday, Temple Anshe Amunim, Pittsfield, MA. Interment 
 GAINES-Solly. Truly a one-in-amillion man on Sept. 18, 1996. He is remembered with great affection by a myriad of friends and former colleagues from more than 50 years including the Weinsteins, the Habers, the Berkowitz's, the Kretchmers, and Artie Reichel.       
 Eugene P. Schonfeld, who founded the National Kidney Cancer Association in 1989 after learning that he had the disease, died on Sept. 25 at his  home in Highland Park, Ill., the association said. He was 54. After receiving the diagnosis, with  no hope of a cure and no information av
 ASHBURN-Frank Davis, age 94, of Westwood on October 2, 1997. Distinguished Headmaster Emeritus of Brooks School, N. Andover, Massachusetts. Beloved husband of Jean (Lang) Ashburn and the late Phyllis (Batcheller) Ashburn. Devoted father of the late Phyllis A. Kissel and Nancy A. Whitaker. H
 BOGART-Mark. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family notes with sadness the passing of Commissioner Mark Bogart, our dear friend and generous benefactor to the Beth Israel Cancer Center. To his family, friends and loved ones, our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman,
 BRISKIE-Julius on October 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Bess for 59+ years. Loving father of Jane Sylvester of Portland, Oregon. Devoted father-in-law of Robert Sylvester. Adoring grandfather of Jonas Sylvester. Caring brother of Celia Epstein. Dear uncle of Lenore, Howard, Stephen, Jane and 
 CUNNINGHAM-RUNDLES-Mary Alice. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of Mary Alice Cunningham - Rundles, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Ward Cunningham Rundles, M.D., longtime member of the medical staff at our North Division. To Ward,
 FRANK-George, 94, master wood finisher with works in the Louvre and Metropolitan Museum, died September 2 in his native Budapest, Hungary. He lived in Paris, where he established his atelier, moved to New York and founded the George Frank Cabinet Corporation. On retiring to Florida, he beca
 FREIMAN-Robert, died September 3. Born in New York. Artist who studied at The Art Students' League, The National Academy of Design, Parsons School of Art, Pratt Institute, Ecole des Beaux Arts, Fontain Bleau, where he was awarded first prize by The French Republic. He was a member of The Am
 GONTZOFF-Vadim F. Passed away in New York Hospital October 2, 1997, after a long illness at the age of 81. Burial will be private. He will be missed by Annikki, friends and Midnight.       
 GRIFFIN-David Frederic ''Fred''. Cherished husband of Marion. Beloved and adored father of Joan Meyer, Gerald Brian, and Robert Griffin, son-in-law Charles Meyer, and daughter-in-laws Julie, Janice, and Regina Griffin. Precious grandfather of Colleen, Lauren, Peter, Jamie, John, Robert, and
 LICHTENSTEIN-Roy, I had a friend, just the other day, my friend Roy, he died today. Where will you plot next? In New York City he passed away. Center of POP for you and me. I'll be there; will U2? In the city; glorious lights. Mondrian's Broadway; city delights. Have a cup of coffee; it's a
 LIEBMAN-Charles J., a scholar, author and collector, died on September 24, 1997. He was 87 years old. Mr. Liebman attended Harvard College and subsequently moved to Paris to study at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes. He received his diploma after submitting a thesis entitled ''La Vie Prose de St
 MARGETT-Charles, The Honorable. Retired Justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court. Beloved husband and friend of Doris Rosen. Stepfather of Sanford Rosen. Dear uncle of Ronald and June, Monte and Barbara Posner, and cherished grand-uncle. Services Monday, 1:00PM,
 MORRIS-Robert. Age 85. Of West Palm Beach, formerly of Great Neck, New York. Passed away on September 28, 1997 after a short illness. Survivors include his wife Mildred M. Morris, children Bernard, Marthe and Barbara and 4 grandchildren. He was a practicing attorney in New York City for ove
 PARIS-Dr. Leon. Age 88, died suddenly on September 23, 1997, in Florida. Predeceased by loving wife Jerry. Beloved father of Lenny (Alvin) Katz, Philip (Sally), Michael, and Judy. Brother of Sarah. Devoted Poppop to grandchildren and great-grandchildren. He will be greatly missed.       
 SCHAEFER-George, M.D. Age 84, died peacefully at home on Sept. 27. Beloved husband of Shirley, father of Jay and Michael, grandfather of Daniel and Julia, brother of Minnie Reiter. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from NYU and Cornell University Medical College in 1937, and was an Attending Phys
 SCHWARCZ-Ernest. The faculty and students of the Jewish Studies Program at Queens College, CUNY, mourn the tragic death of Dean and Professor Emeritus Ernest Schwarcz. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Marta. A memorial service will be held on Monday, October 6, 1997 at 12:30 
 WOLVEK-Sidney, 74. Died on October 2, 1997. Loving husband of Irma and surived by sons Joseph and Ethan. He was a hero to his family, and his remarkable life was an inspiration to everyone who knew him. Donations in lieu of flowers should be made to Cornell New York Hospital or a charity of
 MARGOLIN-Boris. He entered eternal life Rosh Hashonah 5745. A loving man and a learned Jew. Dorothy       
 A. L. Rowse, the brilliant authority on Shakespeare and Elizabethan England whose grandiose opinions of his scholarship were not always shared by rival historians he invariably dismissed as third-rate, died on Friday at his home in Cornwall. He was 93 and best known for his confident identi
 Donald N. Medearis Jr., who as chief of pediatrics at Massachusetts General Hospital pushed for nationwide improvement in emergency care for children, died last Monday at that hospital. He was 70 and lived in Winthrop, Mass. The cause was heart failure, family members said. 
 Dave Marr, the jocular Texan who won the 1965 Professional Golfers' Association Championship and then traded on that victory and his homespun wit to forge a career as a television commentator, died of cancer yesterday. He was 63. Marr, who was first treated for cancer in 1988, died 
 Haldor E. Rosvold, a retired neuroscientist known as a pioneer in studying the role the brain's frontal lobes and networks play in numerous mental processes, died at his home in Silver Spring, Md., on Sept. 26. He was 81. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. U
 Lyman T. Johnson, the plaintiff in a lawsuit that led to the integration of the University of Kentucky in 1949, five years before the Supreme Court paved the way for the desegregation of all public schools in Brown v. Board of Education, died on Friday in Jewish Hospital in Louisville, Ky. 
 HOCHHAUSER-David R. On Oct. 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving son of Goldie and the late Harry. Dear uncle of fourteen nieces and nephews. He will be missed by his many cousins and friends. Services were held.       
 MARGETT-Charles, The Honorable. Retired Justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court. Beloved husband and friend of Doris Rosen. Stepfather of Sanford Rosen. Dear uncle of Ronald and June, Monte and Barbara Posner, and cherished grand-uncle. Services Monday, 1:00PM,
 NACHBAR-Martin. On October 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Paul; loving brother of William and Edwin. He was a Board member of the Mental Health Assocation of Nassau County and a Board member of Central Nassau Guidance and Counseling Services, Inc. He was retired from
 TURCHIOE-James F. Died suddenly on October 4, 1997. Adored husband of Peggy Rose Turchioe. Devoted father of Brian and Elisabeth. Special son of Louis V. Turchioe and Susan and Irl Rose. Brother of Robert, Lois, Louis, John, George, Mary, Richard, Dominick and Thomas. He was a special man, 
 Johnny Vander Meer, the Cincinnati Reds left-hander who in 1938 threw two consecutive no-hit games -- the only pitcher in major league history to accomplish the feat -- died yesterday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 82. The cause was an abdominal aneurysm, his lawyer, Bob Carlton,
 BURT-Michael, M.D., Ph.D. October 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Kathleen. Dear son of Shirley and Maurice Mastromonico. Loving father of Bryan and Lauren. Dear brother of Gail Jannicelli and much loved son-in-law of Kathleen and John Ahearn. Friends may call Tuesday 2-4 and 6-9 PM at Frank E.
 GITTLIN-A. Sam, of South Orange, NJ, and Bal Harbor, FL, passed away in his home on October 5th. He was 82 years old. A leader in business and in his religious community, he was a man whose integrity and foresight were an example to all. His support of family and friends had a lasting impac
 HOFF-George Edward, who was President of CPC International Inc. Worldwide Corn Wet Milling Division from November 1983 until his retirement in June 1985, died on Sunday, October 5, at his home in Oradell, N.J. Mr. Hoff, 77 years old, had Parkinson's Disease. Beginning his career with CPC in
 LEMELSON-Jerome H. The Board of Trustees, President David C. Chang, the faculty, students and alumni of Polytechnic University profoundly regret the passing of Jerome H. Lemelson, one of the world's most prolific and courageous inventors and a hero to all who follow in his footsteps. Mr. Le
 MATIS-Dr. Jacob D. died October 6, 1997 at his home in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Rosalie. Devoted and adored father of George Matis and Nancy Dreyfuss. Loving grandfather of Jessica Matis and Leah Dreyfuss. Beloved brother of Edith Helsel. Services Thursday 12 pm at ''The Rive
 MURPHY-Patrick Joseph, formerly of Valley Stream, NY, died Friday, October 3, 1997. He was a graduate of CCNY, a Golden Gloves boxer, and served during W.W. II as a Marine Corps fighter pilot. He was the first Commander of the Catholic War Veterans in LIC. During Mr. Murphy's career he was 
 NACHBAR-Martin. We record with deep sorrow the death of Martin Nachbar, long time and faithful board member. He will be missed. Board of Directors and Staff Mental Health Association of Nassau County       
 PASS-Dr. Sheldon. Beloved husband of Sheila, devoted father of Dr. Adam and Dr. Robert, dear brother of Lenore Feldman, cherished grandfather of Scott, loving father-in-law of Joanne and sonin-law of Sylvia Waldinger. Services were held Monday, 1 pm at Parkside Memorial Chapel. PASS
 ROSENBERG-Louis P. Beloved husband of the late Ruth M. Loving father of Richard A., Kenneth N. and Kathleen. Cherished grandfather of Jason and Sean. Dear brother of Lillian Sherman, Joseph, Alfred A., and Sylvia Ginsberg. Private funeral services were held on Tuesday, October 7. In lieu of
 ROSENFIELD-Dr. Richard E. On October 3, 1997. Beloved husband of 53 years of Olive L. Rosenfield. Loving father of Cantor Richard, Jr., Dr. Allan and Phyllis Steele. Devoted grandfather of Lauren, Anna, Dorianne, David, Alexandra and Jeffrey. May his wonderful spirit live within our hearts 
 SILBERT-Mitchell Louis, of Pembroke Pines, FL and Ridge, NY, on October 6, 1997 in his 79th year. Beloved husband of the late Shirley. Loving father of Alan, Joan and Carol. Dear grandfather of Jennifer and Lauren Silbert, Eli and Adam Cook, and Joshua Streit. Service on Thursday, 1:30 PM a
 SMITH-Arthur E., nationally renowned interior designer, died Friday of complications from cancer and renal failure at New York Hospital. He was 56. A native of Vidalia, Ga, he graduated from Auburn University's Interior Design program in 1960. Mr. Smith moved to New York City in 1962 where 
 SPELMAN-Leonard. The Great Neck United Community Fund notes with profound sadness the passing of Leonard Spelman, Past President of the Fund and a volunteer for over 40 years. Condolences are extended to his family. Richard Arenella, Pres. & Board Grt Nk United Community Fund       
 TRACY-Arthur ''The Street Singer.'' One of the brightest stars of radio, motion pictures and nightclubs passed away Sunday evening in Manhattan. Mr. Tracy lived here for most of his 98 years. He is survived by his dear brother Bert, beloved ex-wife Blossom and many loving nieces and nephews
 WALLACE-Leveritt A. On October 5, 1997. Husband of Marcia and the late Bernice Krasne. Father of Nancy Cooper, Benjamin and Elizabeth. Step-father of Susan, Laura, Jonathan and Benjamin Svetkey. Father-in-law of Stephen Houze, Charles van der Horst, Jeannie Hatcherson and Ilana Svetkey. Gra
 Arthur Tracy, the celebrated Street Singer on radio and recordings in the 1930's and 40's, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 98 and lived in Manhattan. With his richly romantic voice, Mr. Tracy was a musical star for decades, singing his theme song, ''Marta, Rambling Ro
 ADAMS-Donald J., MD, child psychiatrist, of Scarsdale, New York. October 6, 1945-October 6, 1997. Beloved husband of Audrey Stier-Adams, cherished father of Sarah and Rachel Adams, devoted son of David C. Adams and the late May Adams, loving brother of the late Jonathan Adams, dearest nephe
 ALTSHULER-Bernard, Ph.D. The Trustees, Faculty and staff of NYU Medical Center deeply mourn the loss of Bernard Altshuler, age 78, Professor of Environmental Medicine at NYU School of Medicine. Dr. Altshuler was well known for his mathematical approach to biology and environmental health, p
 AUERBACH - Rabbanit Recha. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved sister of our member, Manfred Meyer. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President AUERBACH-Recha. Bar-Ilan Univer
 BENDER-Michael L., who produced ''Beetlejuice,'' died on Friday, October 3rd, 1997 at Tarzana Encino Hospital, due to complications from HIV. He was 51. Mr. Bender began his career as an entertainment lawyer for Warner Bros. and Avco Embassy. His family requests any donations be made to AID
 BLADES-William B. Dearest friend, handsome and distinguished Southern gentleman. A celebration of his life will be announced. Roderick R. Denault Richard L. Ridge       
 CALLAHAN-John J. Beloved husband of Audrey, sons Craig and Scott J., brother Francis, sisters Margaret and Patricia, died suddenly at the age of 68. He was a longtime sailor on Barnegat Bay in New Jersey, where he sailed Mscows, E-scows and Barnegat Catboats. He owned and summered on the re
 CAPELLI-Arthur. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, are deeply moved by the loss of Arthur Capelli. He will truly be missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Lipsky, Goodkin & Co.       
 CARROLL-Albert, October 6, 1997 of Devon, Pennsylvania, formerly of Hartsdale, New York. Husband of Rhoda (nee Freudenthal), father of David William Carroll and Barbara Kay, brother of Evelyn Freedman, also survived by four grand children. Relatives and friends are invited to graveside serv
 FAURA-Oscar R., 80, died on September 30, 1997, in Atlanta, Georgia. Mr. Faura served in the United Nations for 25 years. He is survived by three daughters, 4 granddaughters, and one greatgrandson. The memorial service will be at 4 PM, Thursday, October 9, 1997, at All Saints Episcopal Chur
 FELDMAN - Robert. Women's American ORT, American ORT and the World ORT Union note with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved husband of our distinguished leader, Reese Feldman. A dedicated supporter of the Jewish community, he was a devoted husband, father and grandfather who took great pr
 FISHEL-Carlton Mark, age 88, suddenly on October 6th, 1997. Former Chairman of the Board of Trifari, Krussman & Fishel, Inc. until he retired in 1975. A graduate of Phillips Andover ('26) and Yale ('30), he was a founding member and past President of the Advisory Board of St. Vincent's Hosp
 LACHMAN-Lawrence, 81. Passed away in his sleep on October 7, 1997. He will be sorely missed by his family and friends. Beloved husband of Judith for fifty-two years. Devoted father of Robert and Charles. Grandfather of Elizabeth and Peter, Amy and the late Jill Lachman. Father-in-law of Dia
 LEVEC-Pierre. The Four Nations Ensemble mourns the passing of our friend and patron. His gentle encouragement and warm appreciation will continue to nurture our work.       
 LOUDON-Malcolm John, Wing Commander, DFC, on 9/20/97 in the UK at age 81. RAF, Battle of Britain, WWII 1935-1946. Mentioned in dispatches for distinguished service. POW at Stalag Luft III from 1944 to 1945. He moved to USA in 1946, where he married and had two children. He returned to the U
 MATIS-Dr. Jacob D. died October 6, 1997 at his home in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Rosalie. Devoted and adored father of George Matis and Nancy Dreyfuss. Loving grandfather of Jessica Matis and Leah Dreyfuss. Beloved brother of Edith Helsel. Services Thursday 12 pm at ''The Rive
 PARIS-Samuel L. A curtain of sorrow has descended upon the family of Sam Paris. His life was a synthesis of commitment and love. May we all be blessed by the same indomitable spirit, uncompromising intellect and gift for touching others' lives. To his cherished wife, Shirley, beloved childr
 PATTERSON-Archibald A. On October 6th, 1997, at the age of 81. A graduate of Hobart College and Harvard Law School, he practiced law in NYC and was a fifty year member of the American Bar Association. He was an accomplished bridge player and member of the University Club. He is survived by 
 ROSENFIELD-Richard E. M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague, Richard E. Rosenfield M.D., Emeritus Professor of Medicine and Director Emeritus of Blood Bank and Clinical Microscopy. Associated with Mount
 SILBERT-Mitchell Louis, of Pembroke Pines, FL and Ridge, NY, on October 6, 1997 in his 79th year. Beloved husband of the late Shirley. Loving father of Alan, Joan and Carol. Dear grandfather of Jennifer and Lauren Silbert, Eli and Adam Cook, and Joshua Streit. Service on Thursday, 1:30 PM a
 SPELMAN-Leonard. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed former member, Leonard Spelman. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Donald Stein, President Howard Jacobs, Secretary       
 WALLACE-Leveritt. Congregation Kol Ami Jewish Community Center of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and convey sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark Hershey, President WALLACE - Leveritt A. The Foundi
 Arthur E. Smith, an interior designer known for his comfortable yet tailored interiors, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lymphoma, said Andrew Crispo, his companion. Mr. Smith, who was born in Vidalia, Ga., graduated from A
 Frank Davis Ashburn, a lionized Yale graduate who gave up a chance for sure-fire success in business or the law to devote his life to giving other boys the same advantages he had had as a boarding student at Groton, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Westwood, Mass. He was 94 and had s
 Gunpei Yokoi, a brilliant tinkerer who designed the Game Boy and other products that helped transform Nintendo from a sleepy manufacturer of playing cards into a worldwide colossus in video games, was killed in a traffic accident in Japan on Saturday, the company said. Mr. Yokoi, 56
 Otto Ernst Fritz Adolf Remer, an unrepentant Nazi who as a young officer helped Hitler retain control of Germany in the crucial hours after a failed assassination attempt in 1944, died on Saturday at his home in Marbella in southern Spain. He was 84. Mr. Remer died of natural causes
 FELDMAN - Robert. Women's American ORT, American ORT and the World ORT Union note with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved husband of our distinguished leader, Reese Feldman. A dedicated supporter of the Jewish community, he was a devoted husband, father and grandfather who took great pr
 FISHEL-Carlton Mark, age 88, suddenly on October 6th, 1997. Former Chairman of the Board of Trifari, Krussman & Fishel, Inc. until he retired in 1975. A graduate of Phillips Andover ('26) and Yale ('30), he was a founding member and past President of the Advisory Board of St. Vincent's Hosp
 GAMBLE-Thomas O. III. The Bronx Zoo Design Dept. expresses deepest sorrow on Tom's tragic death. Tom enriched our lives with his creativity, spirit, and love of animals. His award-winning work lives on in the Zoo's exhibits. Heartfelt sympathies to his family, son Giacomo, and all who loved
 HEAP-J. Neil, 76, of Tuxedo Park, NY, died Tuesday, October 7, 1997, at home. Mr. Heap was the founder of World Yachts, New York, New York. Visiting will be at the home in Tuxedo Park, Thursday from 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. Funeral services will be held on Friday Oct. 10, 1997 at 11AM at St. Mary'
 LACHMAN-Lawrence, 81. Passed away in his sleep on October 7, 1997. He will be sorely missed by his family and friends. Beloved husband of Judith for fifty-two years. Devoted father of Robert and Charles. Grandfather of Elizabeth and Peter, Amy and the late Jill Lachman. Father-in-law of Dia
 LANDOW-Mark H. On Sunday, September 28, 1997. Of New York, N.Y. Died at New York University Medical Center. He was the son of Rebecca and Leo Landow of Detroit, Michigan and Bronx, N.Y. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, October 18 at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 W.
 MATIS-Dr. Jacob D. died October 6, 1997 at his home in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Rosalie. Devoted and adored father of George Matis and Nancy Dreyfuss. Loving grandfather of Jessica Matis and Leah Dreyfuss. Beloved brother of Edith Helsel. Services Thursday 12 pm at ''The Rive
 O'BRIEN-Robert H. Mr. Robert H. O'Brien, retired motion picture industry executive who when President of Metro Goldwyn Mayer shepherded the filming of ''Dr. Zhivago'' and ''2001 A Space Odyssey'', died October 6th in Seattle, WA. He had lived in Washington State since retiring from the MGM 
 PASS-Sheldon, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. Sheldon Pass. Dr. Pass was affiliated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Department of Ophthalmology serving as the Attending in Charge for many years. He will be sorely missed by all h
 PATTERSON-Archibald A. On October 6th, 1997, at the age of 81. A graduate of Hobart College and Harvard Law School, he practiced law in NYC and was a fifty year member of the American Bar Association. He was an accomplished bridge player and member of the University Club. He is survived by 
 ZUCKER-Shirley. The law firm of Hawkins, Delafield & Wood extends its deepest sorrow to our partner, Howard Zucker, and family on the loss of his beloved mother.       
 Yevgeny Khaldei, the photographer whose pictures of Soviet soldiers hoisting the red flag over the Reichstag in Berlin are among the best known images of World War II, died on Monday night in Moscow. He was 80. The cause of death was not given in Russian press reports. Mr. K
 Bertrand Goldberg, an architect who literally changed the shape of the Chicago skyline in the 1960's with a pair of cylindrical apartment towers known as Marina City, died Wednesday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 84 and lived in Chicago. The cause was complicat
 Dario Fo, an iconoclastic Italian playwright-performer known for mixing wacky social farce with sharp political satire, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature today, to the guarded amazement of Italy's literary establishment and the outright dismay of the Vatican. In its announce
 Lawrence Lachman, a former chairman of Bloomingdale's, died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday. He was 81 and died of heart failure, a spokeswoman for the company said. Mr. Lachman was one of the key executives in the transformation of Bloomingdale's from a local New York specialty
 Meredith F. Burrill, a toponymist's toponymist who made a name for himself as the world's foremost authority on what people variously -- and sometimes perversely -- call the earth's lakes, rivers, mountains, seas, cities, towns and other physical features and political subdivisions, died on
 BLUMBERG-Albert E. The Audubon Reform Democratic Club mourns the passing of our longtime President. A political leader, senior citizens advocate, philosophy professor and an activist in the truest sense, he worked hard to organize people in northern Manhattan to improve their communities an
 CLURMAN-Morton, age 80, on October 7, 1997. Will be deeply missed by his wife of 57 years, Frances; by his children Michael and Beth; his grandchildren Daniel, Nick, Ha and Anthony; and by his daughter-in-law Barbara and his brother Lawrence. His sense of humor, curiosity, breadth of intere
 HIGHBLOOM-Sidney. The partners and staff of Hecht and Company note with deep sorrow the passing of Sidney Highbloom, who had been associated with the firm in various capacities for over 20 years. Sidney's pride in his work was matched by his great sense of humor and those who worked with hi
 JUROW-Myron. The Morris family and the staff of I.J. Morris, Inc, mourn the passing of our beloved friend and colleague of almost 40 years. We will miss his kindness and his compassionate dedication to his professional responsibilities. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Hedy and his children
 LACHMAN-Lawrence. The Board of Trustees of New York University and the entire NYU community mark with great sadness the death of Lawrence Lachman: alumnus, trustee of the university from 1974 to 1990, and emeritus member of the Stern School's Board of Overseeers. He embraced every aspect of
 O'BRIEN-Robert H. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Robert H. O'Brien, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Victor D. Ziminsky, Jr. Pres. Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 WANG-Fang Yu, Professor. On October 6, 1997, of Manhattan, formerly of Short Hills, NJ. Learned scholar with broadly recognized expertise transcending multiple fields of endeavor including teaching, art, and calligraphy. A prolific author and friend and mentor to many. He is survived by two
 Charles B. Branch, a former president and chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company, died last Saturday at Santa Rosa Hospital in San Antonio. He was 82 and lived on a ranch and wildlife refuge in nearby Boerne, Tex. The cause was bacterial pneumonia complicated by emphysema, a  d
 Fred Fang Yu Wang, an artist, calligrapher and expert in Chinese art who helped develop the first computer system to teach Chinese, died on Monday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Wang, who early in life was known as Wang Fang-yu, was born in 
 Millard Lampell, a screenwriter, novelist and songwriter who survived blacklisting to become an award-winning television writer, died on Oct. 3 at his home in Ashburn, Va. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Ramona. Mr. Lampell was a socially conscious write
 Orlando Ramon Agosti, a member of the military junta that overthrew the Government of Isabel Peron in 1976, opening one of the most violent periods in Argentina's history, died on Monday. He was 73. The air force press office said that Mr. Agosti, a former brigadier general who serv
 BLUMBERG-Dr. Albert E. The Congress of Senior Citizens of Greater NY deeply mourns the loss of our long-time president and friend who died October 8, 1997. Al's dedication, leadership and support for the seniors of our city will continue to remain an inspiration for the Congress of Senior C
 PRICE-Sylvia. On October 9, 1997. Beloved wife & adored companion of the late William. Loving mother and best friend of Leslie Price Hayes. Most cherished & devoted grandmother of Elan Price Kaplan. Dearest mother-in-law of Dr. Dennis Hayes. Treasured sister of Bertram and his wife, Lilyan 
 Robert H. O'Brien, an early member of the Securities and Exchange Commission who later presided over the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film studio in the 1960's, died on Monday in Seattle. He was 93. Mr. O'Brien ran MGM during a particularly turbulent time. While the studio produced some of i
 William B. Spong, a Democrat who successfully challenged Virginia's political establishment to win election to the United States Senate, died on Wednesday at Maryview Medical Center in Portsmouth, Va. He was 77 and lived in Portsmouth. The cause was a ruptured aneurysm, a hospital s
 Dr. Bernard Altshuler, a mathematician who helped lay the groundwork for understanding how the lung is damaged by polluting particles and carcinogens, died on Oct. 4 at his country home in Hillsdale, N.Y. A Manhattan resident, he was 78. The cause was heart disease, said his wife, L
 Dr. Bernard Altshuler, a mathematician who helped lay the groundwork for understanding how the lung is damaged by polluting particles and carcinogens, died on Oct. 4 at his country home in Hillsdale, N.Y. A Manhattan resident, he was 78. The cause was heart disease, said his wife, L
 David Gill, who with his partner, Kevin Brownlow, restored many classic films of the silent era, including Abel Gance's ''Napoleon,'' died on Sept. 28 at his home in Huntington in Cambridgeshire, England. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, Patricia Tobias.      
 ALTMAN-William. Beloved husband of Dorothy Altman, died Wednesday, October 8. He was the brother of Sylvia Wasserman, Ida Kozlowski and Ruth Teitelbaum. The interment was Friday, October 10, at Floral Park Cemetery, Deans, NJ. Rest in peace, Willie.       
 BLADES-William B., III, a native of New Bern, NC, died peacefully at his home on October 6, 1997 at the age of 75; he spent most of his adult life in New York. He was a graduate of the University of North Carolina and the American Institute of International Commerce. He was employed by the 
 CHAPIN-Harold. With profound sorrow the Rabbis and Cantor, Officers, Trustees and members of Congregation Emanu-El express to our colleague and friend, Rabbi Richard S. Chapin, deepest sympathies on the occasion of the death of his beloved father, Harold. A man of impeccable integrity who l
 FISHEL-Carlton Mark, age 88, suddenly on October 6th, 1997. Former Chairman of the Board of Trifari, Krussman & Fishel, Inc. until he retired in 1975. A graduate of Phillips Andover ('26) and Yale ('30), he was a founding member and past President of the Advisory Board of St. Vincent's Hosp
 FRANK-Aaron S., at his home in Vero Beach, Florida on October 8, 1997. Formerly of Phila., PA, Loveladies Harbour, NJ and New Hope, PA. He served in the United States Army from 1941 through 1945. He was associated with the Na-Lor Mfg. Co. of Phila. and the Forum Sportwear Co. of NYC for mos
 GAMBLE-Thomas O. III, suddenly at the age of 36 on October 5, 1997. Beloved father of Giacomo FioreGamble, son of Thomas O. Jr. and Amy Gamble of Santa Rosa, CA., husband of Janerae L. Fiore of Baldwin, N.Y., brother of Meg Gamble of San Francisco. Tom grew up in the U.S. and Japan, graduat
 GONZALEZ-Mario. The officers and members of the Parent Assembly of the Society of American Magicians mourn the passing of our esteemed Compeer, devoted contributor to the Art of Magic and respected mentor to young magicians. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family. Frank Reyes, 
 GREENE-Stuart Alan, died October 9, 1997. He was the cherished husband of his adored and devoted wife, Sherry, for the 33 years of their happy marriage, and the devoted father of Douglas, Stephanie and Bradley. Stuart was the older of the two brilliant sons of Dr. Barnett and Mrs. Lee Green
 HIGHBLOOM-Sidney. The partners and staff of Hecht and Company note with deep sorrow the passing of Sidney Highbloom, who had been associated with the firm in various capacities for over 20 years. Sidney's pride in his work was matched by his great sense of humor and those who worked with hi
 HIRSCHTRITT-Jack. Beloved husband of Ethel. Devoted father of Carol, Joel and Nancy. Adored grandfather of Evan, Stefanie, Jonathan, Marissa and Alexandra. Loving brother of Ralph. Funeral service Sunday, 1:30 PM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st St. and Amsteram Ave. HIRSCHTRITT-Jack. T
 MATIS-Jacob D., M.D. The entire family of St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Jacob D. Matis, MD, a longtime member of our attending staff who exemplified our finest traditions of excellence. He was devoted to his patients and much beloved by colleagues, and will be so
 PRICE-Sylvia. On October 9, 1997. Beloved wife & adored companion of the late William. Loving mother and best friend of Leslie Price Hayes. Most cherished & devoted grandmother of Elan Price Kaplan. Dearest mother-in-law of Dr. Dennis Hayes. Treasured sister of Bertram and his wife, Lilyan 
 QUAID-Donald J. 82, of Falmouth, ME. Retired Equitable Life Assurance Society executive. He rose from office boy at age 15 to create and manage the Accounts Division of the Pension Department as Vice President. He retired in 1980 after 50 years of service. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn
 RYCROFT-J. Dennis, 70, formerly of Gladwyne, PA., died on October 3, 1997 in Scottsdale, AZ. A graduate of Horace Mann School, Princeton University & Columbia Graduate School of Business, he was a retired partner of Arthur Andersen & Co and former faculty member of Villanova University. Sur
 SINGER-Morris. Age 89. Beloved husband of the late Thelma Keller Singer. Devoted father of Charles and Peter, grandfather of Mark, Todd, Guy and Samantha. Loving son of Hyman and Fanny. Brother of Ann and the late Molly, Harry, Irving and Leonard. Caring and loyal to countless friends, he i
 SLOTKIN-Dr. Jay, on Friday, October 10, 1997, of Potomac, MD. Precious husband and best friend of Bonnie. Loved and revered ''Daddy'' of David (Sharon) and John. Adored son of Marjorie and Raymond. Beloved brother of Caryl. Treasured son-in-law of Shayne and Harold Friedman. His name is cou
 WEICHSELBAUM-Walter. On October 2, 1997. Age 78. Cherished husband of Natalie (Gallin). Beloved father of Wilma and Paul (Elyse Meltz). Loving grandfather of Noah and Emma. Dear uncle, cousin, friend. Cared and gave purpose to David Gallin's life. Philatelic dealer. Loved his stamps and his
 WOODARD-Robert A. The family of Robert A. Woodard notes with great sadness his passing on October 9, 1997 in Marietta, GA. After proud service during World War II as an Airforce pilot instructor, Robert began what was ultimately a forty-one year career in the chemical industry, first with C
 EISENSTEIN-Alvin Gordon. Remembered always by his loving family and friends. 10/12/15 -10/26/87       
 Robert L. Wheeler Jr., the track and cross-country coach at Queens College for 18 years and assistant meet director of the Colgate Women's Games for 23 years, died Monday at his home in Flushing, N.Y. He was 67 years old. His wife, Linda, said it was determined in February that he h
 Dr. Theodore G. Klumpp, an executive of the pharmaceutical company Winthrop Laboratories for 31 years and a former official of the Food and Drug Administration, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 94. He retired as chairman of Winthrop, a division of Sterling
 Thomas Whiteside, a writer who made a career of tackling extraordinarily complex topics -- from toxic chemicals to media conglomeration -- for The New Yorker, died on Friday at his home in West Cornwall, Conn. He was 79. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Marie. Mr.
 Aaron D. Wyner, an information theorist at Bell Laboratories whose research is central to the way data move through through a modem or satellite network, died on Sept. 29 at Morris Hills Nursing Home in Morristown, N.J. He was 58, and lived in South Orange, N.J. The cause was cancer
 Albert E. Blumberg, an idealistic philosophy professor who fought for economic and social reforms as an oft-harassed Communist Party official in the 1940's and 50's, then continued the fight with somewhat more success as a Democratic Party district leader in Manhattan, died on Wednesday at 
 Jean Pasqualini, whose book about the seven years he spent as a political prisoner in China's labor camps first exposed the hidden world of the penal system here, died in Paris on Thursday after a long illness. He was 71. His book, ''Prisoner of Mao,'' is a harrowing account of life
 HIRSCHTRITT-Jack. The firm of Newman Tannenbaum Helpern Syracuse & Hirschtritt LLP note with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved father of our Managing Partner, Joel Hirschtritt. Jack was a loving husband, father, and grandfather, who took great pride in his son's achievements and commit
 KATOWITZ-Harry. On October 11, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Claire for 47 years. He was a warm and generous man and was most loved by all who knew him. He will be remembered and missed by many. Loving father of Shelley and Jim Hoberman. Dear grandfather of Mara and Anna. Funeral servic
 LERNER-Robert. On Saturday, October 11. Beloved husband of Rose; adored father of Nathan ''Zeke'' (Lenore) and Linda ''Buddy''. Loved and admired by his grandsons Peter, Laurence, Jordan, Daniel and Jordan's fiancee Alana. Bob was in the men's shirt business with Bedford Shirt. He will be m
 ROSENBAUM-Walter. 75, died Saturday, October 11. Beloved husband of Sylvia, devoted father of Joseph. He was President of Louis Levine Royal Lodge #       
 SIMON-Joseph H. Much loved by his family, died October 11, in his 100th year. He was the husband of Bertha, his wife for 57 years, devoted and loving father of John Simon and Patricia Scheines; fatherin-law to Laura Lee and Morton, adored grandfather of Terri, James, and Andrew Simon; Richa
 STEIN-Irwin ''Spike''. Died Friday, October 10 in Corning, New York. Beloved husband of Ruth; father of Jamie, Michael, and the late Peter Lincoln; grandfather of Julie, Katherine, Liam and Peter Seth. Services on Tuesday, October 14, at 10 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels in Great Nec
 WALLER-Jess. 83, of New Bern, NC, died Saturday at home. Survived by his wife Joyce, three daughters Betsy Shillinglaw of Brewster, MA, Leslie Waller of New York, NY and Peggy Doherty of CT. Also a sister, Miriam Justin of New York; and two grandchildren. Graveside services will be Tuesday,
 Wes Gallagher, who as president and general manager of The Associated Press oversaw substantial changes in news coverage and in the use of technology, died on Saturday at St. Francis Medical Center in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Santa Barbara. Mr. Gallagher, a boomi
 William E. Hartman, whose teachings and research on sex influenced a generation of sex therapists, died on Sept. 26 in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 78 and lived in Long Beach. The cause was myasthenia gravis, a degenerative muscle disease, said Marilyn A. Fithian, his longtime collea
 John Denver, the singer and songwriter who was the voice of wholesome sincerity and simple country pleasures in the 1970's, died on Sunday afternoon when a light plane he was piloting crashed into Monterey Bay in California. He was 53. Mr. Denver, a licensed pilot who flew jets, aer
 Kenneth F. Hahn, a giant of Los Angeles politics for 45 years who helped relocate the Dodgers baseball team from Brooklyn, died on Sunday in Inglewood, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said his son, James K. Hahn, the Los Angeles City Attorney. Mr. Hahn served 
 BYRD-Thomas Hugh, 90, former Palisade Interstate Park Commissioner and Treasurer, died October 12, 1997 in Belleair, Florida. Mr. Byrd was born in Hartsville, S.C., but spent most of his life in New York City with his brokerage firm, Byrd Brothers, after his graduation from Harvard in 1930.
 COREN-Arnold S. On Sunday, October 12, of Woodmere, New York. Loving husband and best friend of Miriam. Caring father & father-in-law of Alice and Larry Reichenberg, George and Nancy Coren. Cherished grandfather of Jason, David, Jeffrey and Andrew. Beloved brother of Mildred Rothman. A ''ge
 DINKOFF-Gary R. Devoted son of Harris and Renae, cherished brother of Allan and Kevin, adored brother-in-law of Pamela and Roseanna, loving uncle of Benjamin and Daniel, and all of his friends' children. Funeral service Tuesday 2 PM, at Gutterman Inc, 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, 
 GREENE-Orville N., 88. Of Manhattan. Suddenly, October 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Maxine Greene. Devoted father of Timothy, Elizabeth and the late Jonathan. Father-in-law of JoAnn and Paula. Loving grandfather of Dan and Chris. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81 st.
 JUDSON-Thomas Fearey, on October 5, 1997. He is survived by 3 sons and daughters-in-law, John Pike Judson and Charmaine of Clover, South Carolina; Thomas Fearey Judson, Jr., & Elisabeth of Victor, New York; & Junius Royal Judson, II, and Lauren; grandchildren, John Pike Judson, Jr., Derek G
 LAWRENCE-Russell C., Jr., of New York City, on October 11, 1997. Beloved brother of Sheila Aaron and Steve Lawrence, both of Arkansas. A New York celebration of his life will be announced.       
 LERNER-Robert. On Saturday, October 11. Beloved husband of Rose; adored father of Nathan ''Zeke'' (Lenore) and Linda ''Buddy''. Loved and admired by his grandsons Peter, Laurence, Jordan, Daniel and Jordan's fiancee Alana. Bob was in the men's shirt business with Bedford Shirt. He will be m
 LESSER-Joel, on October 12. Internationally known toy and doll company executive. He is survived by his wife and daughters, a brother and four grandchildren. Funeral services in Boston.       
 LUSTGARTEN-Ira H. October 12, 1997. Survived by his wife Rhoda, two daughters, Lise Anne Schwartz and Nancy Lustgarten, two sons-in-law, Jeffrey Schwartz and Danny Wessel. Funeral services private. A memorial service will be scheduled for a later date. Contributions may be made to Rockefell
 RISING-Albert E., Jr., on October 11, at his home in Brightwaters, New York. Consulting Metallurgist and Geologist, Dr. of Engineering. He graduated Cum Laude from Princeton University, 1939 and Yale University in 1942. Lt. in US Navy, 1942-1946. Member Sigma XI Society. He is survived by h
 RODGER-Leon M. Of Naples, Florida, Stowe, Vermont and formerly of Greenwich, Connecticut. On October 11, 1997, at Greenwich Hospital. Beloved husband of Joan Rodger; devoted father of Terri, Steven and Wendy Rodger; grandfather of ''Charlie'' Rodger and father-in-law of Lisa Rodger. Burial 
 STEIN-Irwin ''Spike''. Died Friday, October 10 in Corning, New York. Beloved husband of Ruth; father of Jamie, Michael, and the late Peter Lincoln; grandfather of Julie, Katherine, Liam and Peter Seth. Services on Tuesday, October 14, at 10 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels in Great Nec
 TWERSKY-Rabbi Dr. Isadore. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a distinguished scholar and authority on Maimonides and Raavad, an eminent educator whose life embodied the cross-cultural enrichment at the heart of our institution. Erudite and intellectually demanding, he was 
 Peter Donald Andreoli, a retired lawyer who prosecuted racketeering cases in New York City and investigated political corruption in Syracuse, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Pelham, N.Y. Mr. Andreoli spent more than 30 ye
 Raymond L. Spangler, a newspaper publisher and a former president of a national journalist organization, died on Sept. 21 at Sequoia Hospital in Redwood City, Calif. He was 93 and lived in Redwood City. Mr. Spangler was the president of Sigma Delta Chi, the national journalism organ
 Richard H. Gallagher, retired president of Clarkson University in Potsdam, N.Y., died on Sept. 30 at Northwest Hospital in Tucson, Ariz. He was 69. He had cancer, said his wife, Terese. From 1988 to 1995, Dr. Gallagher, a civil engineer, was president of Clarkson, a small un
 Harold Robbins, a writer whose formula of sex, money and power made him one of the best-selling authors of his day, died yesterday at Desert Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Palm Springs. The cause was pulmonary arrest, said a family friend, Jay Roberts.  Mr. 
 Maurice Braunstein of Schenectady, N.Y., a leading director of bridge tournaments, died on Sept. 20 at his home. He was 83 years old and had been suffering from lung cancer, said his wife, Marion. Mr. Braunstein was the chief director at three world championships, in Guaruja
 ANDREOLI-Peter. The City Club Trustees and Staff express their condolences to the family of Peter Andreoli, a long term member of the Board of Trustees. His advice and council will be missed. Norma Munn, Board Chair       
 DENVER-John. The Trustees and Advisors of the Wildlife Conservation Society express their deep sorrow at the death of John Denver. As a member of the Society's Board of Advisors, Mr. Denver gave of his time and talents to raise public awareness of the Society's works in saving wildlife. He 
 GERBER-Michael A. The Department of Pathology at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine grieves deeply for Dr. Michael A. Gerber and his wife, Minda, who died on Sunday in an automobile accident. Dr. Gerber was a loyal alumnus and devoted friend of this department. He was an internationally ren
 GREENE-Orville N., 88. Of Manhattan. Suddenly, October 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Maxine Greene. Devoted father of Timothy, Elizabeth and the late Jonathan. Father-in-law of JoAnn and Paula. Loving grandfather of Dan and Chris. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81 st.
 HERMAN-Nathaniel. Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Nathaniel Herman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Joan and their beloved family. Morton West, President Leon Fassler, Secretary    
 LAMM-Edward Jacob, who retired as President and Owner of Pathescope Company of America, died in Palm Beach, Florida on Monday, October 13. He was 96. As President of Pathescope, Mr. Lamm produced television commercials, industrial films, training films for the Navy during World War II, and 
 LeVEC-Pierre Henri, co-founder of ''Pierre Deux'', died in Rhinebeck, NY, Sept. 28 of heart failure at 78. His long time associate, Pierre Moulin, was with him. LeVec and Moulin launched a highly acclaimed interior design movement for the French provincial country style started in 1967 with
 LUSTGARTEN-Ira H. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Ira H. Lustgarten, an esteemed member of The Rockefeller University Council, as well as The Committee on Trust and Estate Gift Plans for over ten years. His friendship to The Rockefeller Uni
 RICHMAN-Daniel Joseph. Beloved son of Sheldon and Amelia Richman and beloved brother of Beth Ann Richman. Died October 11, 1997. Grandson of Herman and Dorothy Richman of Hudson, N.Y. a d Joseph and Mary Setteducati of Albany, N.Y. He graduated Fieldston Lower School and Elizabeth Irwin H.S
 RISING-Albert E., Jr., on October 11, at his home in Brightwaters, New York. Consulting Metallurgist and Geologist, Dr. of Engineering. He graduated Cum Laude from Princeton University, 1939 and Yale University in 1942. Lt. in US Navy, 1942-1946. Member Sigma XI Society. He is survived by h
 TAMAGNI-Raymond J., a New York investment banker died at his home in Summit, NJ, Sunday, after a long illness. Mr. Tamagni was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1910. He joined the investment banking firm of F.S. Moseley in 1928. Starting as a runner just a year before the stock market crashed in 192
 TEICH-''Julie'' Julius R., Oct. 10. Retired advertising executive. Beloved husband of Esther M. (Cosindas) Teich. Devoted father of Julius R. Teich Jr., Norman P. Teich (deceased), his wife Ruth H. Teich, Pamela J. Teich (deceased), & Phyllis T. Litman. Loving grandfather of 11. Cherished g
 TWERSKY-Rabbi Dr. Yitzhak. The Students, Faculty and Directors of Maimonides School of Brookline, Ma., mourn the passing of Rabbi Dr. Yitzhak Twersky, zt''l, teacher, Rebbe and role model. Rabbi Twersky's scholarship and righteousness, his devotion to Jewish learning and the Jewish people, 
 TWERSKY-Rabbi Isadore. The Board and staff of the Council for initiatives in Jewish Education mourn the loss of an incomparable leader of spirit and scholarship. We grieve with his family and with the Jewish people. May his memory be a blessing. Lester Pollack, Chair Karen Barth, Executive 
 BUFFUM-Imbrie. Former Professor of French at Yale University, died in Penn Yan, New York on July 7. He was eighty-two. There will be a Memorial Service at Christ Church in New Haven, on October 19 at 3 P.M. Contact John Taft, 202-338-5830 or David I. Roe 206-727-0713.       
 Paul Doughty Bartlett, a chemist known for his insights into the mechanics of organic reactions, died on Saturday at a retirement community in Lexington, Mass. A former resident of Weston, Mass., and Fort Worth, he was 90. Dr. Bartlett retired from Harvard University in 1975 as Ervi
 Robert M. Rogers, founder, chairman and chief executive of TCA Cable TV in Tyler, Tex., died on Sept. 18 at his home in Tyler. He was 71. The cause was cancer, a TCA spokeswoman said. Mr. Rogers started the company in 1954 with the purchase of a cable television operator. To
 Brown Meggs, a record company executive who was chief operating officer of Capitol Records in the 1960's and 70's, and who returned to the company as president of its classical division in 1984 after an eight-year hiatus in which he published several novels, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Sa
 Dr. Edgar Haber, a specialist in immunology and cardiovascular diseases noted for his work in protein chemistry and biotechnology, died on Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Weston, Mass. The cause was multiple myeloma, according to the Harvar
 Isadore Twersky, who bridged two worlds, making the study and practice of ancient Jewish traditions the common thread of a life as a Harvard scholar and Hasidic rabbi, died on Sunday at a hospital in Boston. He was 67 and had been the Nathan Littauer Professor of Hebrew Literature and Philo
 DENVER-John. The members, Board of Directors and staff of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers join the world in mourning the tragic death of our member, John Denver, on October 12. John was a prolific and gifted songwriter, a world renowned and beloved entertainer and 
 FRETZ-Alfred F., M.D. The entire family of St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Alfred F. Fretz, M.D., a former Senior Attending Physician in Urology who first joined our staff in 1946. He was dedicated to his patients and beloved and revered by colleagues, and will be 
 GRIER-Dean, 58, of Chicago, on Sunday, Oct. 12. Beloved husband of Lita, devoted father of Paul, Mark, Scott & Thomas; stepfather of Jonathan Dubman, grandfather of Elizabeth, Dore, Shannon and Kathryn. He was President of Inter-Continental Media, Inc. which produced and syndicated classica
 GROSSMAN-Max, 98, in Clifton, New Jersey on October 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Mollie Grossman for 70 years. Devoted father of Gloria, Bernard, and Sarah, and father-in-law of Elliott, Lenore, and Michael. He is also survived by seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild. He was founder
 HABER-Edgar, 65, of Salisbury, NH, Weston and New York, Elkan R. Blout Professor of Biological Sciences & Professor of Medicine, Harvard University, former Chief of Cardiology of Massachusetts General Hospital and former President of Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute, o
 HART-Parker Thompson. On Wednesday, October 15, 1997 Parker Thompson Hart of Washington, D.C. Beloved husband of Jane S. Hart. Father of Margaret Hart Espey of Lafayette, CA and Judith Hart Halsema of Karachi, Pakisan. Grandfather of John and Audrey Espey and Petra and Rachael Halsema. He i
 HICKEY-Robert J., 80. Of Keene, N.H. In Keene on October 13. Formerly of New York City. Was Regional Chief Inspector, Eastern Division of U.S. Postal Service. He was a bridge life master. Father of Delina Hickey, Keene, Elizabeth M. Hickey, Denver, brother of Joseph Hickey, Fort Lauderdale,
 HIGGINS-James D. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of James D. Higgins, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Victor D. Ziminsky, Jr., Pres. Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 HOFFMAN-Jerome Jay, M.D. Died October 14, 1997. Beloved husband of Joan (Osias) Hoffman. Loving father of Elizabeth and Patricia. Adoring grandfather of Jeffrey and Rachel Rothberg, and devoted brother of Elliot. Dr. Hoffman, an obstetrician and gynecologist, was a member of the Beth Israel
 JAFFE-Benjamin. On October 15, 1997, in his 98th year. Beloved husband of the late Nan Jaffe. Father of Vivian (Joseph) Goldreich and Morton (Lois) Jaffe. Respected grandfather and greatgrandfather. Graveside services on Friday, October 17, 1 P.M., at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, New York
 LUSTGARTEN-Ira H. The Advisory Committee to the Legislature on EPTL and SCPA sadly notes the passing of member Ira H. Lustgarten Esq., Dean of the Trusts and Estates Bar. He contributed greatly in making revisions in the trusts and estates law. He will be greatly missed. Our condolences to 
 RYAN-William T. The entire family of the Greater Metropolitan Health Systems, Inc. (GMHS), comprising Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center (SLR), acknowledges with great sadness the passing of William Ryan, father of our beloved friend & colleague, Lorr
 SHERWOOD-Samuel S. Beloved of Eva Wartels; dearest father of Nancy Ticktin; devoted husband of the late Minnie K. Sherwood; adored grandfather of Karen Ticktin and Dani and Peter Koplik; cherished great grandfather of Laura and Matthew Koplik; revered uncle of Arnold and Barry Sherwood; hon
 TWERSKY - Professor Isadore. The Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations at Harvard University & the Harvard Center for Jewish Studies mourn the passing of our distinguished colleague and friend, founding Director of the Center and internationally renowned authority on Jewish
 PALEN-David S. It is with the greatest sorrow and regret that we note the death of David S. Palen, a Managing Director of The Chase Manhattan Bank and our Senior Country Officer for Korea. David died tragically September 30, 1997 in a car accident in Poland, along with a fellow Chase Office
 Philip L. Ravenhill, chief curator of the National Museum of African Art, part of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, said a museum official. Mr. Ravenhill, an anthropologist, came to t
 Edison Avery Price, the inventive lighting master whose innovative fixture designs give minimalist modern interiors their unobtrusive glow and shed new hidden light on old masters and other museum art, died on Wednesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 79 and widely recognized as the origina
 Harry D. Gotwals, vice president of development and public and alumni relations at Swarthmore College for the past seven years, died on Oct. 2 at Taylor Hospital in Ridley Park, Pa. Mr. Gotwals, a resident of Swarthmore, was 50. The cause was a heart attack, the college reported.   
 James A. Michener, who survived a Dickensian childhood to win the Pulitzer Prize with his very first book, published when he was about 40, and then became one of America's favorite storytellers with grand-scale novels like ''Hawaii,'' ''The Source'' and ''Texas,'' died in his home in Austin
 AULTMAN-Dick. Of Charlotte, North Carolina. On October 15, 1997. Survived by his wife Marjorie (Nee Kirk), daughters, Katie and Kim and son Michael.       
 BEYER-Edward. Film editor. On October 12th in Los Angeles. Beloved father of Matthew Beyer and Leslie Flom. Grandfather of Gabriel. Brother of Lila Sobel. He will live forever in the hearts of his family and friends. Memorial services to be announced.       
 GROSSMAN-David. Beloved husband of Irene. Father, grandfather, brother-in-law, uncle and friend to so many, died October 6. He retired in 1974 from the Federal Gov't after 34 years with HUD and HEW. He will be forever missed.       
 HEYMANN - Seymour Charles. Beloved husband of Friedl (Neumann). Died peacefully Wednesday, October 15, in Mill Valley, CA, after a long, happy and productive life. Born in Pretoria, South Africa, in 1902, he graduated with a medical degree from the University of the Witwatersrand and was th
 HOFFMAN-Jerome Jay, M.D. Died October 14, 1997. Beloved husband of Joan (Osias) Hoffman. Loving father of Elizabeth and Patricia. Adoring grandfather of Jeffrey and Rachel Rothberg, and devoted brother of Elliot. Dr. Hoffman, an obstetrician and gynecologist, was a member of the Beth Israel
 LILLIEN-Bernard. Bernie left us October 13. Much beloved husband, father, grandfather, friend. His warmth, wit and humor were legendary. Heaven will be a livelier place.       
 McCARTHY-William J. The family of William J. McCarthy notes with sadness his passing October 14, 1997 in New York, NY. Beloved husband of Maureen. Cherished father, 2 sons Brian and Matthew and daughters-in-law Catherine and Monica and devoted grandfather to Eoin and Anneliese. He will be m
 NELSON-Zev K, DHL, DD. Died after a long illness in Riverdale, NY. He was 86. Spiritual leader of Temple Emeth, Brookline, MA for 30 years. Rabbi Nelson founded and chaired the Board of Directors of the Solomon Schechter Day School of Greater Boston. He received two doctoral degrees from th
 Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who steered The New York Times through 34 years of expansion and enormous changes in the way it delivers the news to its readers, retired yesterday as chairman and chief executive of The New York Times Company, the newspaper's parent company. Mr. Sulzberger h
 Henry Holt, a conductor and music educator, died on Oct. 4 at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville. He was 63 and lived in Warrenton, Va. The cause was pneumonia resulting from a six-year battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Holt r
 GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital, the entire Mount Sinai community, and physicians everywhere mourn the death of our esteemed colleague Richard Gorlin, MD. An internationally renowned physician, his extraordinary intelligence and energy
 LILLIEN-Bernard. Bernie left us October 13. Much beloved husband, father, grandfather, friend. His warmth, wit and humor were legendary. Heaven will be a livelier place.       
 LOWE-James Jenkins, 82. A long time resident of Bedford, New York died at his home on Friday, October 17, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Tatiana (Tanya) Litchfield, a son James Lowe, Jr of Waterville, Maine, and two daughters, Jennifer Lowe Noble of
 SCULLY-Leonard Tyson, Colonel, U.S.A. Died October 17, 1997 at his home in Pound Ridge, New York. He is survived by his wife Jean Scully. Colonel Scully was formerly President of Excelsior Income Shares, Inc. and a retired Officer of United States Trust Company of New York. He served on the
 Dr. Richard Gorlin, a cardiologist who developed a method of diagnosing critical blockage of a heart valve without using surgery, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71, and had homes in Manhattan and Bedford Hills, N.Y. The cause was pancreatic cancer, fam
 Dr. Carl W. Gottschalk, whose work rewrote the textbooks on how the kidney sorts and conserves water, and who played an important role in the extending of Medicare to cover dialysis for patients in the final stages of renal failure, died on Wednesday in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 75 a
 Ira Howard Lustgarten, a Manhattan lawyer and an authority on trusts and estates law, died last Sunday at his East Side home. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said Augusta L. Packer, an officer of Willkie Farr & Gallagher, where Mr. Lustgarten headed the trusts and estates departmen
 BENNETT-William August, 80, died October 16, 1997, in Houston, Texas. Mr. Bennett was born on April 17, 1917, in Brooklyn, New York, attended New York University, where he was a member of Beta Gamma Sigma and graduated in 1939. He married Doreen May Snoddy in 1943, and they were together fo
 BRONSON-Emerick R. Died on Oct. 15, at home, in Sag Harbor, NY, of a heart attack. Graduate of the Merchant Marine Academy, served in WW II. His career as an internatinal fashion photographer was based in Paris and NY. Predeceased by his wife Arden Catlin. Survived by his sisters Frances Fu
 GAMBLE-Thomas O. III, suddenly at the age of 36 on October 5, 1997. Beloved father of Giacomo FioreGamble, son of Thomas O. Jr. and Amy Gamble of Santa Rosa, CA., husband of Janerae L. Fiore of Baldwin, N.Y., brother of Meg Gamble of San Francisco. Tom grew up in the U.S. and Japan, graduat
 GANTWERK-Sam. It is with profound sorrow that we extend our sincere condolences to Belle, Lewis, Carol, Roz and Ellen on the loss of their beloved husband and father. He will be sorely missed and dearly remembered by all. Arthur and Laura Dennis and Andrea Jay and Felice       
 GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our most cherished friend and esteemed colleague Richard Gorlin, M.D., Senior Vice President of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, The Dr. George Baehr Professor of Clinical Medic
 LILLIEN-Bernard. Bernie left us October 13. Much beloved husband, father, grandfather, friend. His warmth, wit and humor were legendary. Heaven will be a livelier place.       
 LOWE-James Jenkins, 82. A long time resident of Bedford, New York died at his home on Friday, October 17, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Tatiana (Tanya) Litchfield, a son James Lowe, Jr of Waterville, Maine, and two daughters, Jennifer Lowe Noble of
 LUSTGARTEN-Ira H. The Trusts and Estates Law Section of the New York State Bar Association notes with sadness the passing of its former chairperson and respected member of the Trusts and Estates bar. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family. John L. Schumacher, Chairperson       
 SCULLY-Leonard Tyson, Colonel, U.S.A. Died October 17, 1997 at his home in Pound Ridge, New York. He is survived by his wife Jean Scully. Colonel Scully was formerly President of Excelsior Income Shares, Inc. and a retired Officer of United States Trust Company of New York. He served on the
 SHULMAN-Harry. Born September 3, 1924. Died October 17, 1997. He was loved dearly by his wife and best friend of 47 years Bernice (Saloshin); his children Howard, and Lori Miller (Philip) and his many friends, students, colleagues in the NYC School System where he taught with dedication for
 TWERSKY-Yitzchak, Rabbi. The leadership and staff of UJAFederation mourn the passing of Rabbi Yitzchak Twersky, cherished father, beloved husband, renowned scholar, eminent educator. His life enriched those around him with his gentleness and knowledge. To his beloved wife, Atarah, to his da
 Richard Mason, a British author best known for ''The World of Suzie Wong,'' a novel about a Hong Kong prostitute, died on Monday in a hospital here. He was 78 and had lived in Rome for nearly 40 years. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. ''The World of Suzie Wong,'' 
 Roberto C. Goizueta, a Cuban refugee who became chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Company, strengthening its global dominance in soft drinks and building one of the greatest generators of shareholder wealth in corporate history, died early today at Emory University Hospital in A
 Adil Carcani, the last Prime Minister in Albania's Stalinist era, died last Monday, according to press reports from Tirana, the capital. He was 75. Mr. Carcani died at the home of his daughter, Lida Carcani, after a brain hemorrhage, the reports said. He served as head of Go
 Daniel E. Provost 3d, the tobacco executive who got Arthur Godfrey and Ronald Reagan to endorse Chesterfield cigarettes, led the the Liggett & Myers campaign against claims that tobacco is harmful and never abandoned his bedrock position that there is no evidence that smoking causes cancer,
 Dr. Michael E. Burt, a thoracic surgeon who was president of the medical staff at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, died on Oct. 4 in Southampton, N.Y. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. He was killed in a motorcycle accident. The police said he apparently lost con
 AIZENBERG-Rywka. The Conservative Synagogue of Jamaica Estates records with profound sorrow the passing of Rywka Aizenberg, mother of our esteemed Rabbi Isidoro Aizenberg. May he be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Paul Diamond, President       
 GANTSOUDES-James George. 55, died October 17, 1997, at his home in Redding, CT after courageously fighting cancer for more than a year. Jim adored and was adored by his wife, Martha, their children Sarah, Spencer and Nicholas, and his two children by a previous marriage, Geordy and Alexis. 
 GOIZUETA-Roberto C. The Board of Governors of Boys & Girls Clubs of America mourns the passing of long-time member and wonderful friend, Roberto Goizueta. His deep commitment to the young people of our nation, demonstrated consistently throughout his Chairmanship of The CocaCola Company, as
 GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Physicians of the Medical Service of the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, New York, note with great sorrow the loss of Richard Gorlin, M.D., a colleague who was also a friend and mentor to many of us. As well as his many great achievements in cardiology and i
 HANDLER-Miriam. The Officers and the Board of Directors of the American Friends of the Hebrew University, deeply mourn the passing of Miriam Handler, wife of Professor Milton Handler, former Chairman of the Board and longtime leader of our organization. We extend to Professor Handler and th
 JEWETT-Richard William Dickinson. Of Upper Nyack, NY, a recognized civic leader for over 70 years, died on October 16, 1997. He was 98. Mr. Jewett was a former Mayor of the Village of Upper Nyack, NY, President of the Nyack YMCA, founding member of the Rockland County Historical Society, an
 POLONSKY - Murray. Beloved father of Leonard, Ivan and Maxine, and Jay. Cherished brother of Robert Polon and Ruth Heller. Loving grandfather of Alan, Marc, Nicole, Jonathan, Linda, Amy, Andrea, Elizabeth, Sara and Alexander. Loving great grandfather of ten. His love and good humor will be 
 Roy A. Rappaport, an innkeeper turned scholar, anthropologist and director of the program of religion studies at the University of Michigan, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Ann Arbor. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said the university, where he also was a professor of anthropology. 
 BECKMANN-Allan G., 81, of Boca Raton, FL and formerly of Park Slope, Brooklyn, NY, passed away on Saturday, October 18, 1997. Mr. Beckmann was a customs house broker with Daniel F. Young, Inc., for many years. He was preceded in death by his wife, C. Florence Beckmann, and second wife, Mary
 BERMAN-Sidney. 79. Of Laurelton and Lynbrook, N.Y. Died in Tamarac, FL. on October 18, 1997 after a long illness. He was the loving and cherished husband of 56 years to Helen Denowitz Berman; beloved father and father-in-law of Madelynn Berman Heintz and Nick Davy, Robert and Susan Berman a
 BIBBO-Michael Allen. On October 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Martha M. Gagne. Devoted father of Nicholas. Loving son of Domenico and Julie, and the late Gloria. Adored brother of Nancy, Nick, Greg, Eileen, Debbie, Michael and Steven. Memorial service Friday, 1:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 7
 BRONHEIM-David. A life of passionate commitment to democracy and democratic reform will be honored and remembered by all who knew him. His loved and loving children, his sister, his family and friends mourn his tragic and untimely death. Memorial service, Friday, Oct. 23, 11AM, ''The Rivers
 GIROUX-John. Lawyer, actor, lover of life. On October 19, 1997, at home in Manhattan. Husband of Vera Giroux. Also survived by his daughter Noelle and sons Paul and Leigh. Cherished grandfather of James, Hilary, Alexandra and Charlotte. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made
 GOIZUETA-Roberto. The Board of Directors, volunteers and staff of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation (JDFI) International extend their deepest sympathies to the family of Roberto Goizueta on the sad occasion of his passing. His leadership, loyalty, warmth and kindness will be missed by his fa
 GOLDBLATT-Jacob Aaron, 71, of Manasota Key, Florida, died Sunday, October 19 in Englewood Community Hospital. He was the most adored and loved husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his wife Barbara Goldblatt; children Paul Goldblatt, Laura Goldblatt, Tracy Edwards, and Seth Kat
 GOLDSTEIN-Dr. Menek, died suddenly on October 18, 1997. Professor at NYU Medical Center. Beloved nephew of Frania Gitterman, Maria Rosenbloom, and Frieda Hirsch. Loving cousin of Dr. Alex Gitterman and Dr. Hana Savir and their families. Devoted to dear friend Dr. Mira Dziatelowski and her f
 GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The members of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery of the Mt. Sinai Medical Center note with sorrow the loss of Dr. Richard Gorlin. His deep commitment to the welfare of his patients, to the growth of his proteges, and to the art of medicine were and continue to be
 HOFFMAN-Julian of East Hampton on October 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Margaret; loving father of Peter Hoffman and stepfather of Gail Reisin-Goldstein, Jeffrey Kronemeyer and Ronald Frank. Dear brother of Elizabeth Lily Frenkel; devoted uncle of Steven and Irving Frenkel; cherished grandfa
 LOVENTHAL-Daniel J. On Oct 18, 1997. Former President of Temple Judea of Manhasset. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Robert (Debbie) and Amy (Ricky) Gordon. Loving brother of Lawrence (Renee) and Gloria (Murray) Silver. Cherished grandfather of Lesley, David, Kenneth and Lisa. Ser
 MAXIN-Arnold. October 19, 1997, Arnold, husband of Elaine (nee Cohen) of Marlton, New Jersey. Father of Amy (Dan) Heitzer and Marjorie Maxin Ellis. Brother of Jack Maxin and Anne Gould. Grandfather of Matthew, Alissa, and Rebecca. Relatives and friends are invited to graveside services Tues
 NELSON-Rabbi Zev K. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1939, he served Beth Jacob Congregation in Norwich, CT, and in 1947 assumed the pulpit of Temple Emeth in Newton, MA, becoming rabbi emeritus in 1977. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his child
 POSNER-Lillian P. On October 17, 1997. Loving wife of Alan H. Posner. Beloved mother of Dr. Marshall R. Posner, Jeffrey P. Posner, Matthew A. Posner and Claudia A. Posner. Loving grandmother of M. Bowen Posner and Lily G. Posner. Service Tuesday, 12 noon, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 STEIN-Arthur. Devoted husband of Evalyn for 56 years. Loving father, brother, grandfather and friend. He was a good man and will be missed by those who knew and loved him. Funeral at Union Field Cemetery, Ridgewood, Queens on October 21 at 10:45am. STEIN-Arthur. The Rabbi, Officers,
 TREUTEL-Edward. The Juilliard School mourns the loss of Edward Treutel, who served the Juilliard trumpet faculty with great distinction for close to 50 years until his retirement in 1995. Many of his students hold prominent positions in orchestras throughout the country today. As a dedicate
 Dr. William James McGill, a psychologist and teacher who led Columbia University in the 1970's as it recovered from years of student rebellion and financial distress, died on Sunday at the University of California-San Diego Thornton Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. He was 75 and had lived in La
 Brother James Bonilla, principal of Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School in Brooklyn for the last 12 years, died on Friday at Brooklyn Hospital Center. He was 60. He suffered a heart attack at Brothers' House, his residence adjacent to the school, according to his order, the Brother
 Dolph Camilli, a slugging first baseman who propelled the Brooklyn Dodgers to a long-awaited pennant in 1941 and became one of the most popular players in Flatbush, died yesterday in San Mateo, Calif. He was 90. Noted for his muscular physique and soft hands, Camilli hit 34 home runs, drove
 BECKMANN-Allan G., 81, of Boca Raton, FL and formerly of Park Slope, Brooklyn, NY, passed away on Saturday, October 18, 1997. Mr. Beckmann was a customs house broker with Daniel F. Young, Inc., for many years. He was preceded in death by his wife, C. Florence Beckmann, and second wife, Mary
 BRONHEIM-David. A life of passionate commitment to democracy and democratic reform will be honored and remembered by all who knew him. His loved and loving children, his sister, his family and friends mourn his tragic and untimely death. Memorial service, Friday, Oct. 24, 11AM, ''The Rivers
 GANTSOUDES-Jim. A best friend and confidant for over 23 years. Courageous, stoic and always a constant in our lives. A man among men. His affectionate embraces, warm and engaging smile and eternal sense of optimism created his own special aura. ''JG'' truly made a difference in our lives an
 GIROUX-John. Lawyer, actor, lover of life. On October 19, 1997, at home in Manhattan. Husband of Vera Giroux. Also survived by his daughter Noelle and sons Paul and Leigh. Cherished grandfather of James, Hilary, Alexandra and Charlotte. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made
 GOIZUETA-Roberto C. The leadership and Entertainment, Media & Communications division of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Roberto C. Goizueta, chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Company. His fierce dedication to the company strengthened its global dominance, making
 GORLIN-Richard, M.D. We are saddened about his passing. He was a friend and a mentor-a brilliant teacher. He still had so much to offer. Arnold and Sylvia Schonfeld       
 GOYNE-Dr. Laszlo K., Sarasota, Florida, died on October 7, 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife Elisabeth of Sarasota, Florida, son Peter of Darien, Connecticut, and his two grandchildren, Paige and Alex. A memorial service will be held 3 P.M., Wednesday, October 22, 1997, St. Martha's 
 MCGLONE-Robert J. (Bob), of 212 Carolina Sands Drive, Carolina Beach, NC, died October 21, 1997 at his residence. He is survived by his wife, Margaret (Peggy) Hassett McGlone of the home. He retired from Slattery Associates, Queens, New York. Also surviving are his three daughters, Teresa M
 MORIARTY-Patrick J., CSW. The NYC Chapter, National Assoc. of Social Workers mourns the loss of our long-time member, colleague, & friend. He was the consummate social worker, with an exquisite sense of principle, purpose and spirituality: he touched people at their deepest level. The core 
 PETERSON-Ralph. Passed away Monday, October 20, 1997 after a brief illness. Ralph was a dear husband to his wife, Patricia; a loving father to his 3 children, Jeffrey, Stacey and Beth; an adoring grandfather to Jami, Scott, David and Brian. His professional life as Chief Finance Officer of 
 RATNER-Harold. The Employees of Sunny Day Enterprises mourn the loss of Harold Ratner, our beloved friend, associate and mentor. His loss has left an irreplaceable void in our organization and in our hearts. His memory is an inspiration to all who knew him. Our deepest sympathy to the entir
 SALMANSON-Leonard. On October 20, 1997. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member, Leonard, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Miriam, and his family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, Pr
 SCHUTZER-Seymour, MD. The medical staff of North Shore University Hospital expresses its deep sorrow on the death of its distinguished colleague. A dedicated and compassionate individual, Dr. Schutzer served his patients and his community at the highest level as a personal physician and thr
 STEUER-Eliot. After several years of ill health. Survived by his beloved wife Eleanor, nephew Dr. Richard Gilbert and wife Shirley and three great-nieces Ellen, Lori and Randi. A former Senior VP of Brown, Harris, Stevens, Eliot will be remembered most for his warmth, wit and integrity.    
 THORNER-Phyllis. Founder and Director of ''New Beginnings'' for widows and widowers. Wife of the late Hayman. Beloved mother of Joel, Scott and the late Martin, and Martin's wife Pat. Adoring grandmother of Michael and James. Dear sister of William Klein and his wife Marilyn. Service Wednes
 WHITEMAN-Herbert Wells, Jr., of Brooklyn, died Sat., Oct. 18 at age 61. He spent twenty years as a VP at the Federal Reserve Bank of NY, and made significant contributions to the Bank's Information and Bank Security Operations. Herb earned a civil engineering BS from Columbia U. and an MS f
 WILLIAMS-Stanley. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Eugene P. Grisanti, Chairman of The Board, Howard Solomon, President of The Board Directors and everyone at New York City Ballet deeply mourn the passing of Stanley Williams, legendary teacher, colleague, mentor and dear friend. We sh
 William S. Ogden, a banker credited with helping save the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company from insolvency after its collapse in 1984, died on Saturday. He was 69 and lived in Stamford, Conn. He died of a heart attack, his son, William S. Ogden Jr., said.        
 Judge Harold J. Rothwax, who began his legal career as a combative defense lawyer and civil rights advocate in New York but who later gained wide attention in a campaign to limit the rights of defendants, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 67. The caus
 FELDMAN-Theodore F., 62, of 42 Mill Stone Drive, formerly of Woodbridge, CT., died Tuesday, October 21, 1997 at Middlesex Hospital. He is the husband of Diane G. Feldman. Mr. Feldman was born in New Haven, CT., on June 22, 1935 to the late Nathan Feldman & Evelyn Goldstein Feldman of Medfor
 GARZON-Julio M., 92, newspaper editor and USIA official, died on October 19. Born in Bogota, from 1925 to 1958 Mr. Garzon was Sports Editor & Managing Editor of the Spanish daily ''La Prensa'' of New York. From 1958 to 1971 he was Director of the Latin American Branch of the Press and Publi
 GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Department of Pathology of Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourns the death of Richard Gorlin, M.D. He was a pioneer in cardiology, a leader and innovative scholar, a true friend of this department and a Mount Sinai ''giant''. We will miss him. We wish his wif
 HANDLER-Miriam A. The Officers and Board of the Jewish Campus Life mourn the passing of the beloved wife of our esteemed board member, Professor Milton Handler. Our deepest sympathy to Milton, his daughter Carole and entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusa
 JONES-Richard N. On October 19, 1997, at age 92, in Hanover, N.H. Husband of Leila Elizabeth Jones (deceased). He is survived by two loving children, Elizabeth Thorne, of Manchester, Mass., and Gerard E. Jones of Greenwich, Conn., six loving grandchildren and two stepgrandchildren and one g
 MCGILL-William J. On behalf of the entire University community, the President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of President Emeritus William J. McGill. Dr. McGill assumed the responsibilities of President and Trustee at a time of student unrest and seve
 PRICE-Leonard. October 20, 1997. The New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants mourns the loss of its Past President. A member since 1936, he received the Society's Distinguished Service Award in 1962 for a lifetime of dedicated service to the CPA profession. We extend deepest 
 SCHUTZER-Seymour, M.D. He will be deeply missed and remembered always by family, friends and all those who knew and loved him. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, 55 Station Plaza North, Great Neck, L.I. Friday, October 24th, 12 Noon. Contributions may be made t
 SELIGSOHN-Max. Migdal Ohr Institutions in Israel and American Friends of Migdal Ohr deeply mourn the passing of Max Seligsohn, father of Gerald Seligsohn, Board Member of American Friends of Migdal Ohr. We express our condolences to wife, Selma, and grandchildren, Lisa and Danny. May the A-
 WILLIAMS-Stanley. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Eugene P. Grisanti, Chairman of The Board, Howard Solomon, President of The Board Directors and everyone at New York City Ballet deeply mourn the passing of Stanley Williams, legendary teacher, colleague, mentor and dear friend. We sh
 ELAHI-Cyrus. One with love in his heart never dies.       
 Bishop Walter W. Curtis, the former head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bridgeport, died on Saturday at St. Joseph Manor, a nursing home in Trumbull, Conn. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, said the Rev. Michael K. Jones, the vice chancellor of the diocese and the secretary to B
 Herbert W. Whiteman Jr., who began his professional life as a civil engineer and in 1977 became the first black to be named a vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died Saturday at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 61 years old. The cause of death was he
 John Whitney Hall, the missionaries' child who became a pioneer in the field of Japanese studies and one of the most respected historians of Japan of his generation, died on Tuesday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 81. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Robin.     
 Junichi Ueno, co-owner of Japan's second-largest daily newspaper, Asahi Shimbun, died of pneumonia at a Tokyo hospital on Sunday. He was 87 years old. Mr. Ueno represented the third generation of the family who, jointly with Michiko Murayama, owns the newspaper and its subsidiary bu
 LUSTICA-Stevan of NYC on October 20, 1997 at the age of 39, after 15 years of endless battles against AIDS. His unending courage, outlook and optimism will always remain an inspiration to all who knew him. He is survived by his loving mother Edeltraud and step father Anthony Deorato, Lakewo
 PHILLIPS-Herman Alfred, 95, Physician of Miami Beach and formerly of Brooklyn, New York, died in his sleep on October 20, 1997. A graduate of CCNY and NYU-Bellevue (1928) he served his patients with skill, compassion, enormous energy and good humor for more than 50 years in NYC and Miami Be
 POLIKOFF-Hy. On October 22, 1997 (Simcha Torah). Age 85. He died after a long goodbye. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Phyllis and Steve Opochinsky and Rhoda P. and Joseph Traum. Proud ''Papa'' of Laurie, Juliet, Jillian and Seth. A man for all seasons. Services on Sunday, 10:30 
 ROTHWAX-Harold J. Beloved husband of Yona. Adoring father of Julia and Louis. Darling brother of Judy and Helen. Cherished friend of so many. Service on Sunday, 11 A.M., at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory to VISTA, 1356 Old C
 SCHORR-Robert. Of Delray Beach, FL., died peacefully on October 22, 1997. Beloved husband of Joan. Devoted father of Steven Schorr, Andrea Kadin and Melissa Lubliner. Dear brother of Morton Schorr. Adored grandfather of Jourdann, Brittany and Justin. He will be sorely missed. Graveside serv
 TRASK-Frederick K., Jr. Ninetyone, of Carmel Valley Manor, Carmel, CA., and Underhill, VT, died Thursday, Oct. 16 of heart failure. He was the husband of Sarah W. Trask and the late Margaret P. Trask. Mr. Trask was a founder and partner of Payson & Trask (NYC) venture capital with Joan Whit
 WILLIAMS-Stanley. The entire School of American Ballet family notes with greatest sorrow the death of faculty member Stanley Williams. The entire faculty, all the stdents and staff join Chairman Albert C. Bellas, Faculty Chairman Peter Martins, and President Larry Alan Smith in mourning the
 Stanley Williams, an internationally renowned teacher of male ballet dancers, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. Mr. Williams died of apparent natural causes, the medical examiner's office said, and was found by his maid. Mr. Williams, a senior faculty memb
 Edward Treutel, a trumpeter who taught at the Juilliard School for nearly 60 years, died on Friday at the Englewood Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 84 and lived in Leonia, N.J. He was born in Philadelphia and studied with Herbert L. Clark, the author of a well-known trumpet-met
 J. Robert Lackey, a health-planning executive and former head of the New Jersey Health Care Facilities Financing Authority, which he helped organize, died on Tuesday at his home in Pennington, N.J. He was 71 and also had a home in Venice, Fla. The cause was liver cancer, his family 
 Jimmy Herbert of New Rochelle, N.Y., who won more races than any other runner at Madison Square Garden, died Thursday night in Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 82 years old. His wife, Mary, said he died of kidney failure, two weeks after surgery to remove a malignant t
 GELLIN-Hyman S., M.D., 90. On October 23, 1997 in Lauderhill, Florida. He was a graduate of New York Medical College, and practiced family medicine in Brooklyn from 1931 to 1980. His children, Dr. Gerald Gellin and Harriet Selverstone and their spouses Lucille Gellin and Dr. Robert Selverst
 HART-Parker T. A retired career minister of the Foreign Service of the United States and former Assistant Secretary of State for Near East and South Asian Affairs died October 15 in Washington, DC at the age of 87. He served as U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Turkey, Minister to
 ROTHWAX-Harold J. Beloved husband of Yona. Adoring father of Julia and Louis. Darling brother of Judy and Helen. Cherished friend of so many. Service on Sunday, 11 A.M., at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory to VISTA, 1356 Old C
 SINGER-Max, M.D. On October 24, 1997 of Stamford, CT. Formerly of New Rochelle and White Plains, NY. Beloved husband of the late Belle P. Singer and Norma Monoson Singer. Devoted father of Elliot Roy Singer, M.D. of Chappaqua, NY, Marcia Rogull of Rye Brook, NY and Roberta Aviram of Kings P
 Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, who sought to improve medical care in poor countries as dean of the University of Virginia School of Medicine and later was the university's chancellor and vice president for medical affairs, died on Thursday at his home in Cismont, Va. He was 84. Dr. Hunter, w
 G.E. Kidder Smith, an architectural historian and photographer, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was bronchectasis, said his wife, Dorothea. Mr. Smith, who trained as an architect, is best known for books that chronicled the modern architectural 
 Henry L. Gourdine, who spent his life messing about in boats, becoming a Hudson River legend for his passionate, lifelong love of the river, his skills as a commercial fisherman and the delight he took in passing on his lore, died on Oct. 17 at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Holl
 Dr. Menek Goldstein, a professor of neurochemistry, physiology and biophysics at the New York University School of Medicine, died on Oct. 18 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was apparently a stroke, said Dr. Mortimer Levitz, a colleague at the school. 
 BOGATY-Harry. Long a resident of Englewood, New Jersey, on October 18, 1997, at his home in Westborough, MA. Dear husband of Helene Marer Bogaty for fifty years, cherished father of Lewis and his wife Lissa, and Daniel and his wife Fran, beloved brother of Beck Bogaty, dear grandfather of D
 BOHNENKAMP-Leslie G. Age 54. Died on October 16, 1997, at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan after a long illness. He will be remembered by friends and family for his kind and gentle spirit and for his ability to make us laugh. His vitality and sureness of touch is visible to us in all of hi
 DESSER-Leon. On October 21, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Lillian, loving father of Stuart and dear brother of Maxwell. His wisdom, guidance and love will be greatly missed.       
 ENGBERG-Holger Laessoe. Born in Denmark, died in New York on October 23, 1997. Survived by his wife Lillemor, his son Niels Peter, his daughter Lisbet and her husband Stuart. We shall miss him. Memorial service to be announced at a later date.       
 GINSBERG-James. Died peacefully after a courageous battle with mesothelioma. Jimmy will be rememberd by his family, many longtime friends, close business associates and loving companion Ceil Berman. He is survived by his adored wife Sylvia, beloved children Peter, Ronna and Edward Goldstein
 GOLDBERG-Howard I. October 21, 1997. Dear father of Marion, Carol and Victor and father-in-law to Debra Sue. Beloved husband of the late Belle Goldberg. Cherished grandfather of Debra and Barry. Brother of Mildred. A veteran of W.W. II. He will be remembered by all who knew him. Memorial do
 GOLDBERG-Louis, age 89. AO, M. Com, Litt. D, Professor Emeritus, Melbourne University, Australia, died peacefully at home in Melbourne on October 18, 1997. Beloved father of Loretta, New York, cherished husband of Jean, widower of Myrtle. A scholar and gentleman, he influenced several gener
 KRUBINER-Arthur. Of Hallandale, FL. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Paul (Margie) Krubiner of Fairfield, CT, and Madeline (Warren) Balinsky of Setauket, NY. Cherished grandfather of Sharon, Adam, Marc, Steven and Carleigh. Devoted brother of Buddy. His legacy of love and devot
 MOSES-Julian Morton. On October 16, 1997. Record historian author of ''American Celebrity Recordings 1900-1925'', Fellow of the National Endowment for the Humanities, critic and teacher. Survived by his life long friend and companion Christopher Bruno. Julian will be deeply missed by those 
 PETERSON-Ralph. Passed away Monday, October 20, 1997 after a brief illness. Ralph was a dear husband to his wife, Patricia; a loving father to his 3 children, Jeffrey, Stacey and Beth; an adoring grandfather to Jami, Scott, David and Brian; and a devoted brother to Phyllis Makransky. His pr
 POLDEN-William H., 76. Died on Saturday, Oct. 18, 1997 at home in Manhattan, New York. He retired from Hearst Publications Corp. He was of Protestant faith. He will be remembered for his great humor and magic. He is survived by his current wife Anna Mae, and his first wife Caroline, the mot
 ROSENMAN-Daniel M. (formerly of Bellmore and Amityville, NY). On October 17, 1997 at age 72 in Laguna Hills, CA. Survivors include: his wife Bernice, daughter Dr. Amy and husband Bill Rogers, son Judge David and wife Patty, grandchildren in CA., brother Robert and Rhoda of Wantagh, NY, brot
 ROTHENBERG-M. Officially Milton, known as Mark to his friends and associates at the New York State Dept of Labor, Mendie to boyhood pals and relatives, called by assorted affecionate names by his wife Judy, his daughter Tamar and his son Peter. Died October 21, 1997 after an interminable il
 SCHULMAN-Howard. A labor lawyer who served two terms as Commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and who was a past chairman of the American Bar Association's Labor Law Section, died Thursday in Sharon, CT. He was 79. Mr. Schulman, born in Brooklyn, lived in Millbrook, 
 SCHUTZER-Seymour, M.D. The American Diabetes Association, New York State Affiliate, Inc., notes with sorrow the passing of Dr. Seymour Schutzer, a member of the New York City Chapter Board. Dr. Schutzer was devoted to caring for people with diabetes and spent time during his retirement volu
 SWEENEY-William J. III, M.D. Dedicated physician, pioneer in the field of reproductive medicine. He touched thousands with his humor, skill and kindness. He is survived by his wife Frances, his children and their spouses William, David, James, Brett, Michele, Cindy, Amy and Peter, and his g
 TRASK-Frederick K., Jr. The boards, faculty and staff of The New York Hospital and Cornell University Medical College are deeply saddened by the passing of esteemed New York Hospital Life Governor Frederick K. Trask, Jr. Mr. Trask joined the Board of Governors of The Society of the New York
 WADLER-Dr. Irwin. The Board of Governors and Members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Irwin. On behalf of all Fairview members, we express our deepest condolences to his family. Andrew J. Frankel, Pres Stephen A. Leber, Secy WADLE
 YORKOWITZ-Isaac. On October 24, 1997. Beloved companion of Rita Wernick and dearly loved by all of her family. Warm, caring and a good friend to so many. Loving brother of Geri Singerman and Millie York. A wonderful uncle to all of his nieces and nephews. Everyone who knew him will miss him
 Dr. Philip D. Marsden, a specialist in tropical medicine who trained doctors in Uganda and Brazil and became a world expert on parasites, died on Oct. 4 in his home in Brasilia, where he had lived since 1974. He was 64. The cause was a stroke, family members said. Dr. Marsde
 Phineas Indritz, a New Deal liberal and civil-rights lawyer who served as counsel to several committees of the House of Representatives, died on Oct. 15 at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 81 and lived in Silver Spring. The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Buddy Hirsch, a Hall of Fame horse trainer and the son of the renowned trainer Max Hirsch, died Saturday in Bal Harbour, Fla., after a long illness. He was 88. Max and Buddy Hirsch formed one of the rare father-son combinations inducted into horse racing's Hall of Fame in Saratoga S
 Carl Feiss, a visionary architect and pioneering urban planner who helped transform the science of clearing slums into the art of historic preservation, died on Oct. 10 at a retirement home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 90 and had played an important role in historic restorations in Charlesto
 The Rev. Dr. Edwin O. Kennedy, who had been a professor and administrator at Union Theological Seminary and the pastor of Presbyterian churches in New Jersey, died on Oct. 3 at Heath Village, a retirement community in Washington Township, N.J., where he lived. He was 97. Dr. Kennedy
 BALDACCINI-Renzo. Paintings conservator, art historian, friend to art of all centuries. Born Florence, 1912. New York Journal American, 1963, said of his own paintings, ''a striving to extract from life's incongruities a sense of order and beauty.'' Loyal husband to Louisa. Beloved godfathe
 CAHN-Bernard J. Lawyer, died October 25, 1997, in Brooklyn, NY, after a long illness at age 89. Beloved husband of Rose Cahn. Devoted father of Meta and Richard Cahn. His integrity, his compassion, his sense of humor and his devotion to family and friends was exceptional. A contribution to 
 FONES-Maynard L. 69, died Friday, October 24, 1997, in Greenwich, CT. He was a 1952 graduate of Western Maryland College in Westminster, MD. Survived by wife Betty Steadman Fones, two daughters, Mary Lee Weber and Nancy Dearing, two sons, Lawrence and John, five grandchildren and a brother,
 GINSBERG-James. The staff of Paper Enterprises, Inc, Consolidated Paper Co and Peter Pak express our intense grief at the passing of our beloved and esteemed associate, friend, mentor and father of our Director of Customer Services, Ronna Goldstein. He shared our dreams. Herb and Jordan Sed
 HERMAN-Edward N., Esq. Died on October 25. He was a longtime practitioner of law in Queens, where he had also served as Assistant District Attorney. He is survived by his wife Phyllis and his beloved children David and Laura, his son-in-law Donald Einsidler and his cherished grandchildren M
 HERMAN-Stephen Frederick. On October 24, 1997, at the age of 56. A resident of Riverdale, NY. Senior Vice President at Arab American Bank, NYC, and a member of the Board of Directors. Son of the late Dr. William A. and Marion Herman. Survived by his wife Jean and their children Jeanmarie Sa
 HERWOOD-William James. On October 18, 1997, at the age of 94. A native of NYC, he lived for some years in the San Francisco Bay area. He is survived by brother Fran, sisters Marion and Claudia, son Michael, daughter Beth, and grandson Bill. He retired from International Advertising Sales fo
 HUNTER-Dr. Thomas Harrison. Former Dean of the University of Virginia Medical School, died at his home October 23, 1997. For information, Hill & Wood Funeral Home, Charlottesville, VA.       
 LIBERMAN-George, M.D., 91, passed away Friday, October 24, 1997, in Bal Harbour, FL. A dedicated physician, he practiced family medicine in Brooklyn from 1930 to 1989. He was elected ''Family Doctor of the Year'' in 1985. He was the beloved husband of Pearl. Cherished father of Ellen (David
 POPKIN-George. On October 26, 1997. Attorney at law. Adored husband of Anne. Loving father of Susan Wadsworth and Lenny Popkin. Beloved grandfather of Rebecca Diallo. Cherished brother of Goldie Warren and Joseph Popkin. Beloved of Charles Wadsworth, Joseph Warren, Penny Popkin, Ibrahima Di
 STRAUSS-Paul. Founding partner of Gersony Strauss Co., Inc., international commodity trading and brokerage firm, which he was active in for over 50 years. Director of American Fats and Oils Association, Inc. Friend and business associate to many around the world. The partners and staff of G
 SWEENEY-William J. III., M.D. We acknowledge with deep sorrow the loss of our dear friend and colleague and express our deepest sympathy to his family. New York Lying-In Hospital Alumni Association SWEENEY-William J. III, M.D. Dear and most wonderful friend, true model for all physi
 VICAS-George A. On Saturday, October 25, 1997, at his residence. George A. Vicas of Arlington, VA, father of Robert and Leslie Vicas; grandfather of Natalie, Alexander and Jeremy. Companion of Sophie Kempf. Friends may pay their respects at the Arlington Funeral Home, 3901 North Fairfax Dri
 JOHNSON-Norman Dudley. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, October 30th, Saint James' Church 875 Madison Ave, NYC at 11AM. Gifts in his memory may be sent to The Episcopal School 35 East 69th Street, NY, NY 10021, the N.Y. Historical Society 170 Central Park West, New York 10024 or
 Parker T. Hart, an American career diplomat who was prominent in Middle East matters in the 1960's, serving as Ambassador to Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Turkey and Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Washington. He was 87.      
 Rankin M. Smith Sr., the owner and chairman of the board of the Atlanta Falcons, died at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta yesterday afternoon, just hours before the team kicked off the eighth game of a lackluster season. He was 72. A hospital spokeswoman, Deborah Wexler, described the c
 Arthur Stephen Lane, a lawyer and a former United States District judge, and a former chairman of the New Jersey State Commission of Investigation, died on Thursday at his home in Princeton. He was 86. Most recently, he was a partner in the Trenton firm of Smith, Stratton, Wise, Heh
 George A. Vicas, a producer and director of television documentaries on politics and culture, died on Saturday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. For more than 30 years, Mr. Vicas produced documentaries for NBC, CBS, AB
 Helio Beltrao, who served in the cabinets of three governments during Brazil's 21-year military dictatorship, died on Sunday morning here. He was 81 years old. The Brazilian press reported the cause of death as respiratory insufficiency due to a brain tumor. After a long car
 J. Alfred Guest, who developed many programs in his 25 years as alumni secretary of Amherst College and was active in alumni affairs nationally, died on Oct. 6 at Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, Mass. He was 86 and lived in Amherst and Martha's Vineyard. A native of East Ora
 BARR-Ray A. Bedford, NY. Died Sunday, October 26 at home. Beloved of Honey and his children, Michael and Korin. Services October 29 at 9:30 AM, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad St, Mt. Vernon, NY. BARR-Ray A. Died suddenly at his home, Bedford, NY Oct. 26. We shared wonderful 
 BERLANT-George. 83. Died at home Oct. 25th, 1997. He will be remembered by his friends and family as an outstanding ''Mentsch'', and humanitarian, committed to the betterment of society. He was a righteous man in a secular context and will be sorely missed by us all. He is survived by his w
 BOICHIS-Hayim, M.D. After an illness, in Tel Aviv, October 27, 1997. Deputy Minister of the Dept. of Health in the State of Israel, Professor and past Dean of the Tel Aviv University School of Medicine, elected to Honorary Membership of the European Society of Pedatric Nephrology, member of
 BRENNGLASS-Edward N. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) deeply mourn the passing of our devoted Board member, who provided outstanding leadership in guiding JDC's rescue operations; relief efforts to hundreds of thousands in n
 GLOGOWER-Charles. In his 92nd year, on October 25, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Sylvia. Loving father to Ralph and Cynthia Glogower, Susan and Arthur Peisner. Cherished grandfather of Michael and Terri Glogower, Stephanie and Fred Solomon, Nancy, David, Beth, and Ian Peisner. Beloved b
 GOLDBLATT-Leonard, 82. Died October 26 in Kingston, New York. A well-known teacher and lecturer on art, he was the originator of the lecture series ''Art on Rye'' at Nassau Community College. Surviving are his wife Evelyn and sons, Stephen, Paul and David. A memorial service will be held Tu
 GRAZIANO-Frank Joseph, corporation executive, 79. The entire community of Webb Institute, Board Chairman Charles G. Visconti, President James J. Conti, Trustees, Faculty, Staff, and Students mourn the passing of Frank Joseph Graziano. Mr. Graziano, who lived in Short Hills, NJ, died of canc
 HESSEL-Allen W. Died on Oct 26, 1997, of Great Neck, NY. Devoted and loyal husband and best friend of Renee for 36 years. Proud, loving father of Howard (Betheny), and Brian. Grandfather of Morgan. Brother of Joseph. Loved by all who called him brother and friend, and whose lives he touched
 LIVINGSTON-James Bacher. Artist, musician, filmmaker and remarkable friend, Jamie died of cancer at Mount Sinai Hospital on Saturday, October 25, 1997, his forty-first birthday. In addition to countless friends, films, images, hand-made instruments, tchochtkas, circus memorabilia and comic 
 POPKIN-George. On October 26, 1997. Attorney at law. Adored husband of Anne. Loving father of Susan Wadsworth and Lenny Popkin. Beloved grandfather of Rebecca Diallo. Cherished brother of Goldie Warren and Joseph Popkin. Beloved of Charles Wadsworth, Joseph Warren, Penny Popkin, Ibrahima Di
 RICE-James P. Of Chicago, IL. Beloved husband of the late Paula (nee Yasgour). Loving father of William ''Bill'' (Myrna Sislen) and Michael (Jane). Dear grandfather of Joel and Nathan. Fond brother of the late Elizabeth (David) Carson. Services Tuesday, 1:30 PM, at Anshe Emet Synagogue, 376
 RUSCH-Hermann G. The Members and Officers of the Societe Culinaire Philanthropique deeply mourn the passing of their beloved, Honorary President and Honorary Chairman of the Salon of Culinary Art of New York in Lewisburg, W. Va. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Jean-Pierre Stoe
 SOKOLOFF-Vladimir. The faculty, staff, and students of The Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia mourn the loss of Vladimir Sokoloff, our beloved alumnus and emeritus faculty member. Our thoughts and deepest sympathy are with his family. Gary Graffman, President       
 STEINFELD-Joseph Lehman. On October 26, 1997. Beloved husband of Phyllis Frank Steinfeld. Loving father of JoEllen Snowman, Suzanne Weisman, Gay Benison, Ethelyn Steinfeld and Joseph L. Steinfeld, Jr. Devoted grandfather of ten and great-grandfather of three. Dear brother of Jane Zuckerwar.
 STRAUSS-Paul O. On October 26, 1997. Beloved husband of Ursula (Teddy). Dear brother of Martin and his wife Barbara. Dear brother-in-law of Greta Leven. Devoted uncle of Denise and Mark Straus, Ronald and Andrew Leven and Sandra Fishman. Great uncle of Jamie, Scott, Erica, Matthew and Alex.
 SWEENEY-William J. III, M.D. The boards, faculty and staff of The New York Hospital and Cornell University Medical College mourn the passing of their beloved and esteemed colleague Dr. William J. Sweeney III. A dedicated physician and researcher, Dr. Sweeney was, at the time of his death, C
 VAN HEUKULOM-Carel. Known as a pioneer in the investment company business, died after a long illness. He was an executive of Technology Fund, a management and distribution company, now part of the Kemper Group. Mr. Van Heukulom was known to have been responsible for the first introduction o
 YORKOWITZ-Isaac. On October 24, 1997. Interment was held on October 26. Beloved companion of Rita Wernick and dearly loved by all of her family. Warm, caring and a good friend to so many. Loving brother of Geri Singerman and Millie York. A wonderful uncle to all of his nieces and nephews. E
 JOHNSON-Norman Dudley. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, October 30th, Saint James' Church 875 Madison Ave, NYC at 11AM. Gifts in his memory may be sent to The Episcopal School 35 East 69th Street, NY, NY 10021, the N.Y. Historical Society 170 Central Park West, New York 10024 or
 John Peters, who gained an international reputation for spiritual leadership as the supreme medicine man of the Wampanoag nation while making secular waves across the nation as the executive director of the Massachusetts Commission on Indian Affairs, died on Monday at a hospital near his ho
 John Reese Stevenson, an international lawyer who represented the United States at the Law of the Sea Conference in the 1970's and served as board president of the National Gallery of Art until 1993, died on Saturday at his home in Fort Worth, Tex. He was 76. The cause was multiple 
 Luis Aguilar Manzo, a shark fisherman turned actor whose debonair mustache, arching eyebrows and splendid singing voice made him one of Mexico's most durable movie stars, died on Friday at his home here. He was 79. His wife, the actress Rosario Galvez, said the cause was a heart att
 BAER-Albert M. On October 26, 1997, at his home in Rapidan, Va. Age 92. Beloved husband of Karla. Father of Margery Irish and the late Betsy Kaufman. Grandfather of five and great-grandfather of five. Memorial services will be held Thursday at 11:30 a.m., Frank E. Campbell, 81st Street at M
 BOICHIS-Havim, M.D. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University is profoundly saddened by the passing of Havim Boichis, Professor and Past Dean of the Tel Aviv University Sackler School of Medicine and the incumbent of the University's Lea & Arie PickelPaamoni Chair in Pediatric Nephrology.
 DEFLIESE-Philip. A leader in the accounting profession who served in the 1960's and 1970's as the Chairman and CEO of Coopers & Lybrand, the world-wide accounting, auditing and consulting firm, as Chairman of the American of the American Institute of Public Accountants (AICPA) & as Chairman
 ESLER-Jay Knight. On October 24, 1997 in Tucson, Arizona. Born in New Yirk City in 1922, he attended Hamilton College and was a graduate of Northwestern University. He is survived by his wife Miriam, daughter Lee Rhodes, son Jay Esler, sister Jura Hill, step daughters, Claudia Martens, Merr
 GORDON-George. The entire family of the the East Midwood Jewish Center profoundly mourns the passing of our Trustee and Chief Usher. He was a man filled with the joy of life and the love of all people. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Trudy and his children. Dr. Alvin Kass, R
 GRAY-John, M.D. THe New York Medical Group P.C., the Board of Directors and the entire medical and administrative staff mourn the loss of John Gray, M.D. on Tuesday, October 28, 1997. Dr. Gray was affiliated with the New York Medical Group P.C. since October, 1982. He was a member of the Bo
 GREENFIELD-Charles A. On October 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Loving father of Charles A. Jr. and the late Jackie Smerling. Also survived by 3 grandchildren and 6 great grandchildren and his brother Percy. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wedn
 HANNEY-Thomas F., 86. Mill Rift, PA., October 27, 1997 in Goshen, NY. Past President of N.Y. Oil Heating Assoc., he was founder and President of Hanney Fuel Oil Co., Brooklyn. Survived by wife, Margaret (Bergman) Hanney, daughters, Carol Hafstad, Oslo, Norway and Elaine Romero, Tuxedo Park 
 KAHANOWITCH-Fannie. The officers, trustees and members of Temple Sinai of Roslyn extend their deepest condolences to our Rabbi Emeritus, Norman Kahan on the loss of his beloved mother, Fannie Kahanowitch. We pray that our former spiritual leader's memories of his mother will serve as a sour
 LIEBERMAN-David H. On October 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Louella. Services Wednesday 11:00 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in his memory can be made to The Center for ChristianJewish Understanding, Sacred Heart University, 5151 Park Avenue, Fairfiel
 NIEMCZYK-Rev. Joseph W. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired pastor of Our Lady of Czenstochowa-St. Casimir Church, Brooklyn, October 26. Reposing in Jurek-Park Slope Funeral Home, 728 4th Avenue, Wednesday, October 29, 2-5 PM. Mass of Transferral Wednesday, October 29
 PETERSON-Ralph. Passed away Monday, October 20, 1997 after a brief illness. Ralph was a dear husband to his wife, Patricia; a loving father to his 3 children, Jeffrey, Stacey and Beth; an adoring grandfather to Jami, Scott, David and Brian; and a devoted brother to Phyllis Makransky. His pr
 POPKIN-George. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of George Popkin, a long time ADL supporter. George was an Honorary Life Member of our National Commission and a leader on our Palm Beach Board. We will greatly miss his counsel and active participation with the League. We extend o
 RICE-James P. The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) notes with sadness the passing of an outstanding Jewish Civil Servant who, for a decade after World War II, played a major role in JDC assisting Holocaust survivors in a variety of postings: in Salzburg, Paris, Geneva and 
 SAVITT-Marvin, Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of a respected colleague for over four decades. Quietly and gently, he served the spiritual needs of his congregants with great dignity, warmth and care. We extend our sympathy to his wife Harriet, his children and 
 SCHEINER-Samuel (Sonny). Beloved husband to Royce, adored and devoted father to Randy and Tami, caring brother to Bea Schoedes. He was a unique individual, loved by all who were fortunate enough to be part of his life. He will be missed more than words can say. Services ''Boulevard-Riversid
 SCHWEIGER-Eric G., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the passing of their longtime colleague and friend. He will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D. Secretary William G. 
 SHAMES-Leonard. October 25, 1997. Husband of Helene (nee Weisman) of NY, brother of Gertrude Schiffer and Isadore Shames of Monticello. Funeral services were held Monday. Interment was in Montefiore Cemetery, Philadelphia, PA. Family will be at the home of Norman Pessin. Contributions in hi
 JOHNSON-Norman Dudley. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, October 30th, Saint James' Church 875 Madison Ave, NYC at 11AM. Gifts in his memory may be sent to The Episcopal School 35 East 69th Street, NY, NY 10021, the N.Y. Historical Society 170 Central Park West, New York 10024 or
 John N. Sturdivant, president of the American Federation of Government Employees, which represents 600,000 Federal workers, died on Tuesday night in Falls Church, Va.  He was 59 and lived in Vienna, Va. The cause was leukemia, said Bobby L. Harnage, the union's secretary-treasurer. 
 BAER-Albert M. On October 26, 1997, at his home in Rapidan, Va. Age 92. Beloved husband of Karla. Father of Margery Irish and the late Betsy Kaufman. Grandfather of five and great-grandfather of five. Memorial services will be held on Thursday at 11:30 A.M., Frank E. Campbell, 81st Street a
 KAMINS-S. Peter. October 28, 1997 of Delray Beach, FL. Loving husband and best friend of Barbara. Adored father of Susan Seligman and Bobby (Ruth Anne) Kamins. Cherished grandfather of Andrew, Alex and Michael. Beloved brother of Elayne Haves and Rita Robert. Services Friday, 12:30PM at Bou
 LANDEGGER-Carl M., 44. Of New York City, died at his home Tuesday of a heart attack. Born in Manila, Philippines, on May 17, 1953, he resided in New York City most of his life. Mr. Landegger was the president of The Black Clawson Company, a global supplier of capital machinery for the paper
 POPKIN-George. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of George Popkin, beloved longtime leader and generous supporter. George was an Honorary Life Member of our National Commission and blessed our Palm Beach Regional Board with his warmth, wit and wisdom. His sage counsel, active par
 RICE-James P. of Chicago, Illinois. It is with deep sadness that the Jewish Federation/Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago mourns the passing of James P. Rice, who died on October 25, 1997. He was an internationally renowned authority on immigration whose critical work had a profound
 SILVER-George. Co-Founder of Jasco Fabrics, Inc. He will be remembered as a man of innovation and integrity who was a leader in business and in his community. His generosity of spirit and enthusiasm for new creative talent made a lasting impact on the history of the American fashion industr
 STEVENSON-John R. The Council on Ocean Law notes with sadness the death of its longtime Board Member, John R. Stevenson, on October 25, in Fort Worth, Texas. Ambassador Stevenson was the first Chairman of the American delegation to The Law of the Sea Conference and will be missed by profess
 TALLER-Stephen Lee, M.D. Died Oct. 27, 1997 of pancreatic cancer. Dr. Taller was born May 4, 1933, son of Gladys and Alex Taller. Raised in Manhattan, he graduated from Bronx High School of Science, Oberlin College, and received his M.D. at N.Y.U. In 1963 Dr. Taller moved with his family to
 WHITE-Michael Silva. Of Summit, N.J., and Edgartown, MA., October 29, 1997. Husband of Molly (nee Edmonson) White and father of Cameron S., Jameson F. and Sean M. Brother of Mrs. Ted (Susan) Sherman of Norfolk, VA., and Christopher S. White of Hong Kong. He is also survived by his parents J
 Paul Jarrico, a screenwriter and producer whose blacklisted status in the 1950's limited the distribution of  the film ''Salt of the Earth'' until its release on videocassette three decades later, died on Tuesday in a car accident in California. He was 82 and lived in Ojai, Calif. T
 Robert Cahn, a prominent environmental journalist whose influence spanned more than three decades, died last Friday at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 80. Mr. Cahn helped shape modern environmental affairs not only through his news reporting but also by advising the Government, wo
 T. Dale Stewart, a physical anthropologist who was an authority on human bones, died on Monday in a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 96 and a longtime resident of McLean, Va. Dr. Stewart went to work for the Smithsonian Institution in 1924. After time out to earn a medical degre
 Naoharu Yamashina, the founder of the Bandai Company, the Japanese toy manufacturer behind the Tamagotchi virtual pet and Mighty Morphin Power Rangers crazes, died on Tuesday at the age of 79. The immediate cause of death was respiratory failure, although Mr. Yamashina had been hosp
 ASHBURN-Frank Davis. Age 94, of Westwood on October 2, 1997. Distinguished Headmaster Emeritus of Brooks School, N. Andover, Massachusetts. Beloved husband of Jean (Lang) Ashburn and the late Phyllis (Batcheller) Ashburn. Devoted father of the late Phyllis A. Kissel and Nancy A. Whitaker. H
 CIPRUT-Solomon, MD. The entire family of Maimonides Medical Center expresses a profound sense of loss on the passing of Dr. Sol Ciprut. A member of our institution for nearly 40 years, his life was intertwined with Maimonides. Through the years, he was an intern, a chief resident, and past 
 CROW-Lt. Gen. Duward Lowery. USAF (Ret), age 78, of San Antonio, TX, died Tuedsay, October 28, 1997. Known to friends and family as Pete, he was born in Ft. Payne, Alabama, on June 26, 1919. He graduated from West Point in 1941 and received his MBA from Harvard Business School in 1948. Twic
 ENGLISH - Charles. UNITE mourns the passing of a former leader of one of our predecessor unions ACTWU, Charles English, who believed deeply in organizing Southern apparel workers. A memorial service will be held at The Old Dutch Church in Sleepy Hollow, NY on Saturday, November 1 at 5:00 PM
 GANEK-Bessie. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation extends heartfelt sympathies to fellow Trustee, Howard L. Ganek, on the loss of his beloved mother, Bessie. A warm and caring relationship has come to a close, leaving behind many precious memo
 HEILBRONER-Paul Stephan. On October 24. Survived by his nephew Steven Salomon. Cryptside services on Monday, November 3, 1 P.M., at Union Field Cemetery, Cypress Hills, New York.       
 LANDEGGER-Carl Michael. On October 28, 1997. Beloved father of Carl John and Camila Landegger. Loving son of Carl C. and Cecilia Landegger. Devoted brother of Christine Mroczek, Claudia Malaya, Cary Paul Landegger, Celia Landegger and Gregory Landegger. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell
 POLK-Samuel Wistar, Jr., 65. Only son of Eloise Wells Vaughan and Samuel W. Polk., Sr., died at home of natural causes on August 12, 1997, in New York City. Born on February 13, 1932 in Mercedes, Texas, he grew up in St. Louis, MO. His parents divorced and his mother married Oscar Johnson, 
 RAPP-Col. Theodore A., USAF (Ret.) of Nyack, NY died October 28. Col. Rapp was the brother of recently deceased Norman A. Rapp of Collegeville, PA. As a career military officer and pilot in the U.S. Air Force and the New York Air National Guard, Col. Rapp was a veteran of the Korean and Vie
 SAVITT-Cantor Marvin. The Old Westbury Hebrew Congregation notes with great sadness the passing of our beloved Cantor Emeritus Marvin Savitt, who served our congregation with distinction for 34 years. We extend condolences to his wife Harriet, daughters Ellen Friedman and Julie Savitt, son 
 STURDIVANT-John. The members and officers of the RWDSU join with our brothers and sisters in the labor movement in mourning the loss of John Sturdivant, President of the American Federation of Government Employees, a fine trade unionist who dedicated his life to helping working people achie
 WINSTON-Jay. On October 30, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Loving father of Linda and John,and father-in-law of Renate, grandfather of Claudia, Paul, Valerie, Hella and David. Great grandfather of Ruby Rose. Dear brother of Ruth Winston Frank. Interment private. Contributions in h
 KORN-Jack. 6/18/10 -10/31/94 Forever remembered and loved by his family.       
 William H. Crook, a Texas preacher turned politician who used an abortive race for Congress as a springboard into the Johnson Administration, serving as national director of the Vista program and Ambassador to Australia, died on Wednesday at his home in Corpus Christi. He was 72. Th
