 Edward Rivera, the author of the autobiographical novel ''Family Installments: Memoirs of Growing Up Hispanic'' and an assistant professor at City College of New York, died on Aug. 25 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother Richard.   
 Dr. Josef Fried, an organic chemist whose work with steroid hormones and other compounds was applied to pharmaceutical products, died on Aug. 17 in a retirement community in Chicago. He was 87. Dr. Fried was most noted for his subtle alteration of chemical structures, which enabled 
 DERTOUZOS - Michael. Philips Research joins the faculty and students of the Laboratory for Computer Science at MIT in mourning the passing of Michael Dertouzos, Director since 1974. We extend our condolences to the family of Professor Dertouzos. Philips Research was pleased to have joined t
 FINGER-Stanley. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend. Passed away August 30, 2001. There will never be another like him. Service Sunday, 12 Noon, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave at 91st St, N.Y.       
 ROSENBAUM-Arthur R. The partners and staff of Barr & Rosenbaum mourn with profound sorrow the loss of our beloved partner and friend on August 30,2001. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Terry, and children Andrew, Steven, Debbie and Britt. His memory will live with us forever.
 SALAWAY-Jeffrey H. Suddenly on August 31, 2001. Beloved husband of Toni. Devoted father of Sara and Noah. Cherished son of Agnes and the late Alexander. Dear brother of Marilyn Werner and Elizabeth Salaway. Loving nephew and dear friend to all. Services Sunday, Sept 2nd, 1:00 PM at the Jewi
 TAUBIN-Seymour (''Skee''). On August 28, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Fanny. Loving father of Michael and his wife Robin. Cherished grandfather of Ian and Lance. Devoted brother of the late Debbie Herman. A founder and president of Trylon Realty, Inc. Graveside service Sunday, 11AM at 
 Stephen Gorove, a jurist who was among the first to tackle the legal angles of the conquest of space, died on May 20 in Oxford, Miss., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Mississippi. He was 83. His scholarship in international and space law became a cornerstone o
 Carmine Nigro, the first chess teacher of the former world champion Bobby Fischer, died Aug. 16 at a hospice in Peachtree City, Ga. He was 91 and lived in Peachtree City. Mr. Nigro (pronounced NIGH-grow) met Mr. Fischer at a chess exhibition at the Brooklyn Public Library in 1951 in
 F. Perry Wilson, who led the Union Carbide Corporation, the chemical company, from 1971 through 1976, died on Aug. 22 at his home in Lincoln, Neb. He was 86. He had a stroke, The Omaha World-Herald said. Mr. Wilson was chairman and chief executive of Union Carbide, then base
 BARUCH-Marcel. On August 31, 2001. Beloved husband of Miriam. Loving father of Susan, Rona and Mark Jetsen and Caren and Steven Feldman. Cherished grandfather of Corey. Shiva will be observed at the Baruch residence in Merrick, NY. We will miss him dearly. Ella and Elliott Vilkas and Family
 BROWN-Lawrence M. The Board of Directors and Employees of Go Albert Inc. and related companies, Albert-Inc. SA, Albert Inc. Sarl, Go Albert UK Ltd, Go Albert France Sarl mourn the lost of Lawrence M. Brown, our US financial leader. A man of wisdom and strength. We offer our deepest sympathy
 COLES-William Richard, 80, of Vero Beach, FL died August 21, 2001 at VNA Hospice House in Vero Beach after a brief illness. He was born December 7, 1920 in Montreal, Canada, and moved to Vero Beach 10 years ago, from Lebanon, NJ. Mr. Coles was a retired Commodities Broker, a member of the S
 HALF-Robert. 82, passed peacefully in Palm Beach on August 31, 2001. Cherished husband of Maxine, devoted father of Nancy and Peggy, father-in-law of Donny and Marc. Loving grandfather to Stephanie, Kevin, Ryan, Adam, Lauren and Stephanie. As the founder and Chairman of Robert Half Internat
 MALLET-Jacques R. July 9, 2001. President of Mallet Fine Art Ltd.; former investment banker. MBA, Columbia University, 1973. Survived by his wife, Anne; 2 children, Clementine and Arthur. Interment took place in France. Memorial service at Middle Collegiate Church, 2nd Ave. and 7th St. on T
 NORMAN-Frederick Cole. 92, husband of the late Lillian Mitchell Norman and father of Gilbert B. Norman and Barbara N. Bankson, died peacefully at his home, ''Edgehill,'' in Stamford CT. Survived also by his stepson and daughter, three grandchildren, two nieces, three grand nieces, two grand
 PACHTER-Stephen, Dr. Beloved husband of Linda. Loving father of Rachel, Daniel and Marshall. Cherished son of Billie and Al. Dear brother of Mary Millman. We will always love you. PACHTER-Dr. Stephen. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Dr
 SALAWAY-Jeffrey H. Suddenly on August 31. Beloved husband of Toni, devoted father of Sara and Noah. Cherished son of Agnes and the late Sandor. Dear brother of Marilyn and Stewart Werner, Elizabeth Salaway and Christy Cober. Dearly loved son-in-law of Carol and Arthur Maslow, brother-inlaw 
 SERLING-Maurice E., DVM. Dedicated Larchmont veterinarian for more than 60 years, passed away August 31, 2001. Loving husband of Clarice, beloved father of Joseph L. Serling, Louise S. Sagor, Susan H. Serling and Deborah A. Serling, and cherished grandfather of Jonathan and Joshua Polk. Ser
 SEXTON-Richard. Friends and collegues at Wunderman extend their heartfelt condolences to Andrew Sexton and his brother Jeff on the sad loss of their father Richard Sexton who died on August 29th. We hope that loving memories will be a comfort to you both always.       
 SHULSKY-Rubin. The Mirrer Yeshiva mourns the grievous loss of our esteemed Chairman of the Board Emeritus, Mr. Rubin Shulsky. He was a man of great foresight, strength, generosity and caring whose love for his family and the Jewish people were equaled only by his vision for the future. Mr. 
 SILLS-Dr. Bernard. On August 31. He is survived by his children Kenneth and Darlene and his sister Annette Monoson. An honored healer of the community who will be sorely missed by his family, friends and the many people he has aided in his community all his life. Services to be announced. F
 SOLOMON-Hy. On August 22, 2001 at age 93. Formerly of NYC, Miami Beach, Hollywood, FL and Las Vegas. Adored husband of Ruth for 70 years. Greatest Poppa to Phyllis, Myles, Karen, Rebecca and Harry. He stemmed from humble beginnings and emerged with several successful business ventures. He o
 WHITE-John G. The Chemistry Department of Fordham University regrets the passing of Dr. John White, professor emeritus, on August 22 at his home in Missoula, MT. Dr. White was a distinguished X-ray crystallographer and was part of the group that determined the structure of vitamin B-12.    
 DEANE - Hugh Gordon. Jr. 1917-2001. Lifelong architect building US-China Understanding and Friendship. A founding member of both our National and NY Chapter, he served as Officer, Organizer and Editor of its publications to the end of his life. His memory will be long cherished, inspiring t
 Stephen F. Keating, the president of Honeywell from 1965 to 1974, died on Monday at his home in Wayzata, Minn. He was 83. The cause was a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Keating was the sixth president of Honeywell, a computer business, which was then based
 Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard, the South African surgeon who performed the world's first human heart transplant in 1967, died yesterday in Cyprus. He was 78. Dr. Barnard suffered a fatal asthma attack in the morning after going for a swim at a coastal resort in Paphos, where he had been
 Jimmy Jones, who created a racing dynasty with his father, Ben Jones, as the Calumet Farm trainers who won the Kentucky Derby eight times, died yesterday at a hospital in Maryville, Mo. He was 94. Jones's racing career spanned 60 years, during which Calumet Farm became the leading o
 HALF-Robert. 82, passed peacefully in Palm Beach on August 31, 2001. Cherished husband of Maxine, devoted father of Nancy and Peggy, father-in-law of Donny and Marc. Loving grandfather to Stephanie, Kevin, Ryan, Adam, Lauren and Stephanie. As the founder and Chairman of Robert Half Internat
 KURTZ-Jack. Age 82, of Jackson, NJ, on September 1, 2001. Survived by his wife Beatrice, children Judith Herman, Daniel and Robert, brothers Israel and Maurice, grandchildren Elissa, Gabriel, Joshua, Kyle and Katie, and greatgranddaughter Lilah. Services are Tuesday, 1:30 PM, at Robert Scho
 VOLCHOK-Saul. September 1, 2001. Husband of Susan (nee Weikers) of Bala Cynwyd, PA. Father of Joyce (Milton) Cross and Edward (Karen) Volchok. Son-in-law of Doris Kahn. Brother-in-law of Barbara and Stanley Friedman and Clark and Roni Weikers. Grandfather of Brian (Kerry), Jonathon (Deena) 
 WHITE-Bernard S. The Israel Colloquium mourns the loss of one of its founders. We will miss his wise counsel and advice. A lifelong Zionist he was a leader of the Washington, D.C. Jewish Community and of many national Jewish organizations. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rut
 SPEAKING of Labor Day, there are easier jobs than being The Rat. First off, there is this problem of being a streetwise 15-foot-tall inflatable gray beast with fierce red eyes, prominent white fangs and claws poised in a fighting stance. There is the undeniable reality, too, that Th
 Capt. Jack O. Bennett, a retired American pilot, died on Aug. 26 in Berlin, his adopted hometown, where he was celebrated as a hero of the Berlin Airlift of 1948-49. He was 86. The Berlin government credited him with making the first flight, on June 23, 1948, of the effort that brok
 Crash Davis, an obscure 1940's infielder who emerged as something of a celebrity when Kevin Costner became his namesake playing a shrewd but fading minor leaguer in the movie ''Bull Durham,'' died last Friday at his home in Greensboro, N.C. He was 82. He had cancer, his family said.
 CERZA-Dante. On Friday, August 31, 2001, of Bonita Springs, Florida. Husband of Genevieve (nee Firneno) for 55 years. Father of Alessandra Grace Cerza Larcher Asid, Paul F., MD, and Frank J. Cerza Esq., brother of Ada Cerza, Also survived by five grandchildren. Funeral from the Galante Fune
 DRAKE-Lawrence. Died August 30, 2001 in Gladwyne, PA, age 83. St. Paul's '37, Princeton '41, U.S. Army Major in New Guinea, Master of Architecture, University Pennsylvania. Designed churches in the Philadelphia area, his home for half a century. Active in Schuylkill Township politics and pl
 FERRARI-Louis P. On September 2. Beloved husband of Dorothy, cherished father of Linda and Donna, loved brother of Dorothy and John, loving uncle and friend to his extended family. He will be remembered always. September 5th, 2-5 and 7-9, reposing at Guido Funeral Home, 718-852-2324. Septem
 FORBATH-Thomas P. Died on Saturday, September 2, 2001 from Parkinson's Disease at Cathedral Village, Philadelphia, PA. Born in Budapest, Hungary in 1921. Loving husband for 57 years of Pauline. Devoted father of William and Theodore, father-in-law of Judy Coffin and Alison Roberts, grandfat
 GEISINGER-Edward I. Of Potomac, Maryland, on Monday, Sept. 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Elaine (nee Schonberger) Geisinger, devoted father of Jason Andrew Geisinger, loving brother of Gail Kulak of Middletown, NY & Larry Geisinger of New City, NY, dear son of Alfred and Edith Geisinger of Ne
 KOENIGSBERG - Maynard. We mourn the passing of our former vice president and honorary member of the Board of Trustees, Maynard Koeningsberg, who ''shed round him in the common strife and mild concerns of ordinary life, a constant influence, a peculiar grace.'' Maynard was concerned with not
 LAWLOR-David. Died on September 2nd after a short illness. A well-known Broadway theatrical general manager, he is survived by his sister, Virginia Percoco. A memorial service is planned.       
 LEVY-Jeanne. The members and staff of the Falls Country Club wish to express their sincere condolences to Gerald and his family on the passing of Jeanne. Board of Governors Ken Mahler, President       
 SCHREYER-Oscar. After a long and productive life Oscar passed away on September 2, 2001. A successful lawyer, businessman and rare book dealer, his greatest accomplishment was his life and what he gave to his family. Loving father of Leslie & Linda. Devoted grandfather of Evan, Jenna and Ga
 WHITAKER-Dr. John N. The volunteers and staff of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society wish to express deep sorrow on the passing of Dr. John N. Whitaker, 60, of Birmingham, AL, who died August 29. Dr. Whitaker had served as professor and chair of the Dept. of Neurology at the Univ. of Al
 Julian W. Scheer, whose deft handling of public relations helped foster America's fascination with the space program from the early orbits of Earth until the first Moon landing, died on Saturday at his cattle ranch in Catlett, Va. He was 75. The cause was a tractor accident, his wif
 ACHACOSO-Iluminado, M.D., 79, on August 22, 2001 in San Jose, CA. Born in Botolan, Zambales, in the Philippines, he was a graduate of the University of the Philippines College of Medicine (1943). He and his wife Aurora (nee Valdez) raised their eight children in St. Catherine of Genoa R.C. 
 BARUCH-Marcel. The Board of Trustees, administration and staff of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center and the Schulman Schachne Institute for Nursing and Rehabilitation record with profound sorrow the untimely death of our beloved and distinguished past Senior Vice Presiden
 CLARK-Joseph Sill, Jr. Age 82. Died peacefully at home in Manhattan of Parkinson's Disease on September 1, 2001. Dearest husband of Mary Lincoln Bonnell. Caring father of Story Clark Resor of Wilson, WY., Joseph Sill, III of Venice, CA., Christopher Avery of New York City and Laurance Reed 
 GILBERT-Sir Arthur. The American Friends of The Hebrew University & The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of Sir Arthur Gilbert, member of AFHU Council of Trustees and Hebrew University Board of Governors. Arthur's involvement with the University began when as a teenag
 GOLD-Dr. Bernard. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, Dr. Bernard Gold. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Denise, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 HUT-Alan S., 81. In Palm Beach, FL, on Sept. 3rd. Adored husband of Betty for 58 years. Beloved father of Steve (Margaret), Peggy Diggs (Bradley), Ginny Cartwright (Robert), and Tom (Eve). Cherished Grandpa of Nick, Chris, Matt, Katie, Benjy, Ryan, Willa, and Grace. Contributions in his mem
 KOENIGSBERG - Maynard. We mourn the loss of our friend, brother-in-law, and uncle. His joie de vivre, laughter and warm smile will be missed. Our love goes out to Elaine, Jeri and David, Kim and Barry, Craig and Jill and his grandchildren. David and Harriet Barbara and Wayne Carol and Andy 
 LOCKWOOD-Ruth J. (Edinberg). On Tuesday, September 4, of Boston, Massachusetts. Beloved wife of the late Arthur H. Lockwood & the late Ruben Fogel. Devoted mother of Lee Lockwood and his wife Joyce of West Newton, MA, Roger Lockwood and his wife Carol of Norwood, MA., and Susan Lewinnek of 
 PINES-Ilse. Age 97. Devoted mother of Naomi and Judy and their husbands, Alex Gitterman and Lee Talner. Beloved grandmother of Sharon, Ross, Daniel and his wife Amy, Eric and his wife Donna. Cherished aunt, greatgrandmother and friend. She was a woman of extraordinary intellect, generosity 
 POSNER-Monte A. Passed away September 3rd, 2001 after a long illness. Taught social studies 30 years in Far Rockaway High School. Served with distinction in U.S. Air Force Intelligence. Cherished by family and friends for his sense of humor and love of books. Renaissance man and opera lover
 SCHEER-Julian Weisel (age 75). Of Catlett, VA., on September 1, 2001. He is survived by his wife, Suzanne H. Scheer, two daughters; Susan Scheer of San Francisco, CA, and Hilary Susannah Scheer Gerhardt of Catlett, VA, and two sons; David Scott Scheer of Charlotte, NC and George Grey Scheer
 SCHRECK-Rae. SAR Academy mourns the loss of the beloved mother of Michael Schreck, Executive Director, and to his father Aaron and brother Jerry, grandchildren and to the entire family, may they find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President Rabbi Joel Co
 SO-Pablo, MD. The Medical Staff of St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center mourn the passing of Dr. Pablo So, a member of the Dept. of Anesthesiology from 1975 until his retirement in 1996. He will be remembered as a caring physician and a man devoted to this institution. We wish to extend o
 WATSON-James L. The Board of Directors and members of the Customs and International Trade Bar Association (CITBA) offer our condolences to the family and friends of Judge Watson, a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade for more than 3 decades. Judge Watson was a man of com
 WHITE-Bernard. The American Zionist Movement mourns the passing of Bernard White. He served the Jewish community with distinction for over 50 years. He was a lifelong Zionist and served as a past National Treasurer of the AZM and a recipient of our Lifetime Achievement Award in 1999. Our de
 YEAMANS-Norman. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Stanley Yeamans upon the loss of his brother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 Sir Arthur Gilbert, a British-born real estate developer and philanthropist who donated his valuable collection of silverware and other decorative arts to a new museum in London that carries his name, died on Sunday in Los Angeles, his home for the last five decades. He was 88. His 
 Thomas W. Dewart, former president and publisher of The Sun, the long-defunct New York newspaper, died on Sept. 2 at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 90. On Jan. 4, 1950, Mr. Dewart and his family sold The Sun to the New York World-Telegram, a Scripps-Howard newspaper. The combin
 George M. Skurla, a former president of the Grumman Corporation who led a unit that put the finishing touches on six small spacecraft that carried the astronauts from the Apollo capsule to the moon landings, died on Sunday at Holmes Regional Medical Center in Melbourne, Fla. He lived in Sat
 Judge James Lopez Watson, one of the most senior black members of the federal judiciary, died Saturday at his home in Harlem. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. At his death, he was a senior judge on the United States Court of International Trade, having been 
 Leonard Marshall Wright Jr., a former New York advertising executive whose many writings about trout fishing were initially seen as blasphemous by traditional anglers, died Aug. 24 on the way to a hospital near his summer home in Claryville, N.Y., in the Catskills. He was 78. A former resid
 BANDLER-Richard, 84. Died peacefully September 2, 2001 at his residence on Fisher Island, FL. Richard was Founder and President of the Richard Bandler Co., Inc, a Directory Advertising company in New York City, 1949-1987. He had a love, and a passion, for horses, especially Fox Hunting. He 
 CLARK-Joseph Sill, Jr. Age 72. Died peacefully at home in Manhattan of Parkinson's Disease on September 1, 2001. Dearest husband of Mary Lincoln Bonnell. Caring father of Story Clark Resor of Wilson, WY., Joseph Sill, III of Venice, CA., Christopher Avery of New York City and Laurance Reed 
 FRANCIS-Thayer, Jr. Of Marion, MA., and Aiken, SC. Died at his home in Marion with his family by his side on September 3, 2001. Tim, an engineer, was a founder, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer of the Sippican Corporation and a member of the Massachusetts High Technology Council. As an
 HUT-Alan S., 81. In Palm Beach, FL, on Sept. 3rd. Adored husband of Betty for 58 years. Beloved father of Steve (Margaret), Peggy Diggs (Bradley), Ginny Cartwright (Robert), and Tom (Eve). Cherished Grandpa of Nick, Chris, Matt, Katie, Benjy, Ryan, Willa, and Grace. Contributions in his mem
 KALATSKY-Morton. The Board of Directors, Trustees, Officers, staff and members of the Yad Avraham Institute mourn the passing of Morton Kalatsky, father of our cherished Dean and teacher, Rabbi Yosef Kalatsky. We express our profound sympathy to his wife, Jennie, & the entire Kalatsky famil
 KOCAN-Daniel. Of Frederick, MD, formerly of Potsdam, NY, died September 4, 2001. Survived by his wife, Teresita, & daughters, Stacey Kocan-McCormick of Rockville, Maryland, and Elizabeth McHenry of Zephyr Hills, FL. Memorial services Saturday, September 8th, 2 PM, from the Keeney & Basford 
 KOENIGSBERG-Maynard. Our beloved brother-in-law and uncle will be fondly remembered and deeply missed by all our family as the unique and loving person that he was. Our most heartfelt sympathy to Elaine, Craig, Kim and Gerry over the loss of their dear husband and father. Lillian, Jane, All
 LEVY - Robert. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 MacLEOD-Dr. Norman W. On September 3, 2001. Beloved uncle of many nieces and nephews, and dear friend to many. Funeral services Friday, 3:30 pm at Frank E. Campbell The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Family will be receiving friends on Thursday 6:00-8:00 at Frank E. Cam
 MENDELOWITZ - Trudy (Ger trude). The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Trudy (Gertrude) Mendelowitz, beloved sister of Murray Charash. We extend our deepest condolences to Murray and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, 
 PEREZ-Robert C. On September 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Mary Jean (nee Howard), devoted fathfather of Barbara Ellen Perez, Frederic Royce Perez & Moira Ann Angelini, loving brother of Jeanette Perez Henderson, adored grandfather of Nicholas, Megan, Jeffrey, Lisa and Michael, great-grandfat
 ROSENBERG-Morton. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Margery and son Daniel, and their loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Ellen R. Saxl, Co-President Michael H. Laufer, Co-President       
 SALAWAY-Jeffrey. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of Jeffrey Salaway, son-in-law of Carol and Arthur Maslow, grandson-in-law of Doris Rosenthal, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Corey B. Rabin, President Ronald M. S
 SCHIMEL-Albert. Age 80. Of Boynton Beach, FL. Formerly of Jersey City, N.J. Beloved husband of Rose (Sis). Devoted father of Richard (Barbara) and Julie. Grandfather of Grant. Contributions in his memory may be made to Yad Kenny, C/O P.E.F. Israel Endowment Funds, 317 Madison Avenue, N.Y., 
 SERLING-Maurice E. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Clarice, and his family. Corey B. Rabin, President Ronald M. Stuart, Secretary       
 STUDZINSKI-Alfred E. Of Peabody, Sept. 3, 2001, beloved husband of Jennie M. (Gaieski) Studzinski of Peabody, father of Edward A. and Anne Studzinski of Chicago and John J. Studzinski of London, England, son of the late Cezary and Frances (Jaworska) Studzinski, and brother of the late Willi
 ZEGARELLI-Edward V. Dean Allan J. Formicola, Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery, records with profound sorrow the death of Dean Emeritus Edward V. Zegarelli on September 2. Dr. Zegarelli was a renowned oral pathologist who served Columbia with distinction for 41 years, th
 Dr. Sheldon Datz, who helped develop a technique to observe the interplay of molecules during chemical reactions, died on Aug. 15 in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He was 74. The cause was pneumonia following pulmonary fibrosis, said the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, where Dr. Datz worked for mo
 Dr. Edward Victor Zegarelli, a retired Columbia University dean and oral pathologist who cataloged and documented the more than 400 known diseases of the mouth and jaw, died on Sunday at his home in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 88. Dr. Zegarelli served more than 40 years on the facult
 Heywood Hale Broun, the television commentator, sports correspondent and writer known for his wit and elegant commentary, died Wednesday at Kingston (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 83. Mr. Broun underwent surgery for a broken hip last spring. The hospital did not list a cause of death.     
 BARUCH-Marcel. The Board, members and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourn the passing of Marcel Baruch. Marcel devoted himself, for over three decades, to the care of the aged and disabled in our community, serving since 1970 as an Administrator, Senior Vice Pre
 BOOZAN-Charles W., M.D. Age 82. Died peacefully at home in Sea Girt, N.J. on September 5, 2001. A graduate of Princeton University and Cornell Medical College, he practiced ophthalmology for 40 years in Elizabeth, N.J. He was an inspiration to his three sons who all attended Princeton and b
 COHEN-Babs. All of us at the Jackson Laboratory are deeply saddened by the loss of Babs, beloved wife of Joe, a dedicated member of our Board of Governing Trustees. We wish to express our heartfelt sympathies to Joe and his family.       
 JACOBS-Leonard. Temple Israel mourns his death. Father of our Board member, Robin Feldman. We extend deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Joel Y. Zion, Rabbi Joel Gerstel, President       
 SALA-Jerome Gino, 78. Died on Sept 6. Born in Palermo, Sicily. He graduated from Juilliard School of Music and Teachers College Columbia University. Conducter of the Yonkers Philharmonic Orchestra, The Lehman College Community Band and other music ensembles. He was also a renowned clarineti
 TRUGMAN-Bernard A. Beloved husband of Nita Muhlrad Trugman. Devoted father of Dr. Sheila Trugman and Dr. Joel Trugman. Cherished brother of Mildred Nash. Ever-loving Papa to Noah and Dena Trugman, Lavi, Mark, Howie and Johanna Rudnick. Caring father-in-law to Dr. Razel Solow and Dr. Richard
 WATSON-James Lopez. His friends and colleagues at HEAF (The Harlem Educational Activities Fund) note with profound sorrow the loss of Judge James L. Watson. A founding director of HEAF and a continuing source of encouragement and support, Skizz brought wisdom, compassion and unfailing good 
 WILCZEWSKI - Thaddeus, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff in the Department of Medicine in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our friend and colleague, Thaddeus Wilczewski, M.D., a member of the Beth Israel medical staff for more tha
 Robert McAfee Brown, a Presbyterian theologian who played a prominent role in the ecumenical and liberation theology movements, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Greenfield, Mass. He was 81. He lived in Palo Alto, Calif., and had a summer home in Heath, Mass. His wife, Sy
 Dr. Irving Rust, a Bronx physician who was the lead plaintiff in the Supreme Court case Rust v. Sullivan, which sought to affirm the right of doctors in federally financed institutions to mention abortion to their patients, died on Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 71. The cause
 Heywood Hale Broun, the television commentator and writer who cast an irreverent eye on the world of sports with a flair reflecting yet another career as an actor, died Wednesday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 83. Mr. Broun, who had a particular fondness for horse rac
 Norman D. Forster, owner and president of Léron Inc., a luxury linen shop in Manhattan, died on Aug. 30 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. For more than 50 years, he ran the company his parents, Charles and Margaret Forster, founded in
 SIEGLER-Ralph T., 79, died peacefully in his sleep September 6. Husband of Rodie Siegler; father of David, John and Ruth; husband of Corrinne Siegler, father of Adam and Katherine. Doting grandfather of Jake, Jessica, Cory, Nello, Charles, Sophia and Marlon. A full and happy life, a restles
 SIMON-Ronald E. The Members, Board of Governors and Officers of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of a good friend and fellow member of longstanding and extend their deepest sympathies to his wife Lillian and the family. Morton Klein, President       
 THOMAS-Reuben. With profound sorrow on September 7. Loving husband of Adele Chaikin Thomas. Devoted father of Martin, Gael (Jeff) and Eileen. Proud grandfather of Adam, Becky, Caroline, Daniel and Peter. Son of the late Fanny and Victor Tomshinsky. Brother of the late Bill and George. He wa
 TRUGMAN-Bernard A. Beloved husband of Nita Muhlrad Trugman. Devoted father of Dr. Sheila Trugman and Dr. Joel Trugman. Cherished brother of Mildred Nash. Ever-loving Papa to Noah and Dena Trugman, Lavi, Mark, Howie and Johanna Rudnick. Caring father-in-law to Dr. Razel Solow and Dr. Richard
 WATSON-James Lopez. His friends and colleagues at HEAF (The Harlem Educational Activities Fund) note with profound sorrow the loss of Judge James L. Watson. A founding director of HEAF and a continuing source of encouragement and support, Skizz brought wisdom, compassion and unfailing good 
 Robert Half, the founder and president of Robert Half International, an employment agency, died on Aug. 31 in Lantana, Fla. Mr. Half, a resident of Palm Beach, was 82. The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered in July, said Marc Silbert, a son-in-law. Mr. Half died at th
 Jim Drake, who helped conceive the grape boycott of the 1960's and went on to organize workers and citizens in Mississippi, South Texas, the Bronx and Boston, died on Monday at a hospital in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 63 and lived in Manhattan and Spencertown, N.Y. The cause was lung 
 BINNIAN-William. Born in Cohasset, MA. died of cancer September 2, 2001 at his home on Lloyd Neck, LI. Survived by his wife Jacqueline; his twin sister, Katherine Howe of New London, NH and elder brother Samuel Binnian of Seattle, WA. Memorial services to be held at St. John's Episcopal Chu
 COHEN-Barbara W. On Sept. 2, 2001. Beloved wife of Joseph M. Cohen. Loving mother of Jarrod M. Cohen, his wife Audrey, and Jon M. Cohen. Cherished grandmother of Jordan M. Cohen. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, September 12th, at 4:30 PM at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chape
 CRISTINI-Mark Anthony. Son of the late John Cristini, survived by mother Palma, many family members and fiancee Sara Cheng. Born in Detroit in 1951, he graduated from University of Detroit Law School and built a successful career in law and entertainment. Information on Services and MAC Mem
 HARRIS-Neison. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member Neison Harris and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Bette and their family. Robert P. Adler
 HOGGSON-Wallace Jr. On September 7, 2001, at age 75. Survived by his wife Mary Jane and his children Scott, Richard, Elizabeth, Julia and James. Memorial service to be announced.       
 KORN-Robert B. Of Boca Raton, passed away September 5, 2001, at 93. Beloved husband of the late Gert. Survived by Rhoda, his adored wife of 24 years. Bob, dear loving father, always the optimist, to Leslie Rogowsky and Jeff, Beth and Reuben Levine, Gary, Kathy, Dennis and Dina. Extraordinar
 MENDLER-Ernest F. Of London, originally of South Bend, Indiana and New York City, died suddenly at home on August 31st, aged 71. Husband of Frances and daughter Camille, both of London, England, he also leaves a brother, Edward, of Boston, Massachusetts, sister, Jeanne Davies of Fort Lauder
 PADDOCK-Robert Rowe, 87. Theatrical and Television Designer, 87, longtime resident of Greenwich, died Monday, September 3, at Greenwich Woods Health Care Center, Greenwich, Connecticut. Born August 12, 1914 in Mansfield, Ohio he was the son of the late Reverend Joseph Paddock and Myrtle Row
 PEAKE-Cameron. John Hugh Cameron Peake, aged 82, died at home in Essex, CT on September 7. The cause of death was heart failure. He leaves his beloved wife, Doris; two sons, Christopher of Greenwich, CT and Nicholas of Alexandria, VA; a daughter Alison of West Hartford, CT; eight grandchild
 RAGAZZONI - Gian Domenico. Born in Italy on August 22, 1921, died suddenly on August 26, 2001, in Italy. Beloved husband of 47 years of Halina Ragazzoni. Brother of Dr. Enzo Ragazzoni and his wife Adele. Brother-in-law of Dr. Eliasz Poss and his wife Janet. Uncle of Thomas and David Poss, a
 RUST-Irving. The Board of Directors, staff, volunteers and clients of Planned Parenthood of NYC express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague Dr. Irving Rust. As the former Medical Director of our South Bronx Hub Center and a longtime member of our staf
 SCHEER-Eli, M.D. Of Teaneck, NJ on September 6. Beloved husband of Maria. Devoted father of Audrie Denson, Dick Scheer, and cherished father-in-law of Penny Scheer. Loving grandfather of Julie Boucher, Dawn Spellings, Rebecca Scheer, and Pamela Scheer. Great grandfather of Spenser Boucher. 
 TANENHAUS-Joel. Beloved husband of Joan, loving father of Amy and husband Jay, and Andrew and wife Renee, proud and devoted grandfather of Bari, Erika, Avery and Cooper. His spirit, humor, wisdom and guidance will be missed. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to Memorial Sloan-Ke
 THOMAS-Reuben. With profound sorrow on September 7. Loving husband of Adele Chaikin Thomas. Devoted father of Martin, Gael (Jeff) and Eileen. Proud grandfather of Adam, Becky, Caroline, Daniel and Peter. Son of the late Fanny and Victor Tomshinsky. Brother of the late Bill and George. He wa
 TRUGMAN-Bernard A. Beloved husband of Nita Muhlrad Trugman. Devoted father of Dr. Sheila Trugman and Dr. Joel Trugman. Cherished brother of Mildred Nash. Ever-loving Papa to Noah and Dena Trugman, Lavi, Mark, Howie and Johanna Rudnick. Caring father-in-law to Dr. Razel Solow and Dr. Richard
 WEINTRAUB-Jack I. Died peacefully, on September 6, in his 98th year. Private funeral services were held.       
 WESTNEY-John L. A longtime resident of Riverdale, the Bronx, died peacefully on September 4, 2001, at the age of 88. Jack was greatly beloved and respected by so many family and friends. His life will be celebrated in a service at Riverdale Presbyterian Church, at 11:00 AM on Saturday, Octo
 WILCZEWSKI-Thaddeus, MD and PhD. On September 1, 2001, at the age of 60. He was born in Bialystok, Poland on July 13, 1941. He received his MD degree in Poland and came to the US and received his PhD degree at the University of Kentucky in Louisville where he also became a US citizen. He ca
 McNEIL-Jack. Gone one year today & missed every day. Teacher to many, companion to Bob Reid, friend to all who knew him. Thanks for illuminating our lives.       
 BRESSLER-Martin J. Attorney, 53, died on September 8, of cancer at home in New York, surrounded by his beloved family. Survived by his wife and best friend, Jane, children Amy, Lee, and Scott, parents Anne and David, sisters Bonnie Bressler and June Osterman, and parents-in-law Hannah and N
 COHEN-Barbara W. On Sept. 2, 2001. Beloved wife of Joseph M. Cohen. Loving mother of Jarrod M. Cohen, his wife Audrey, and Jon M. Cohen. Cherished grandmother of Jordan M. Cohen. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, September 12th, at 4:30 PM at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chape
 COHEN-Sylvan M., Esq. On September 8, 2001. Husband of Alma (nee Orlowitz) of Philadelphia, PA. Father of Stephen Bruce and Marc Alan. Brother of Herman and Pearl. Grandfather of Samara, Maxwell, Darius James, and Allegra. A private burial will be followed with a memorial service to which r
 MURPHY-Samuel W., Jr. 73, of Menauhant, MA, and Boca Grande, FL, died peacefully on September 7, from a stroke. Loving husband of Barbara (Boyer) Murphy; father to Constance Perna of Redding, CT, Samuel III of Woodland, MN, and Rebecca Flynn of Owings Mills, MD, and grandfather to Andrew, E
 RING-Alois Louis. 84, of Spring Valley, NY, passed away peacefully on September 7, 2001. Survived by his sons Raymond and Robert, and their wives Pamela and Mary. Devoted grandfather to Eric and Tara. He served in the U.S. Navy in WWII. He received five bronze stars, for battles in Guam, Lu
 RUST-Irving. NARAL/NY, its Board, staff and members say farewell to our beloved Board member, friend and champion of our movement. His role as a physician for choice is legendary, especially his lifelong fight for the rights of poor women to obtain abortions and reproductive healthcare. We 
 SPENCER-William I. Of North Palm Beach, FL, died of cancer September 9, 2001, at his summer residence in Larchmont, NY. He fought a gallant battle. He was predeceased by his first wife Kathryn Cope. He was the cherished and loving husband of Susan Hammel-Namm. He will be sorely missed by hi
 STEINBERG-Elliot B. Age 78, died peacefully Saturday, September 8, 2001. Son of the late William and Mina Cohn Steinberg. Beloved companion of 41 years to Edward P. Shields. Dear brother of Eugene Steinberg and his wife Ruth. Cherished uncle of Rana and Doug, Mimi and Richard, Patty and Mic
 THOMAS-Reuben. With profound sorrow on September 7. Loving husband of Adele Chaikin Thomas. Devoted father of Martin, Gael (Jeff) and Eileen. Proud grandfather of Adam, Becky, Caroline, Daniel and Peter. Son of the late Fanny and Victor Tomshinsky. Brother of the late Bill and George. He wa
 Robert R. Nathan, an economist who helped lead the nation's industrial mobilization in World War II, died on Sept. 4 at a group home in Bethesda, Md. He was 92 and lived in Bethesda. Mr. Nathan spent most of the 1930's with the Commerce Department before becoming chairman of the War
 Samuel H. Miller, who was the pilot of the first scheduled United States trans-Atlantic jet passenger flight from New York City to Paris, died on Aug. 31 in Bradenton, Fla. He was 84 and lived in Bradenton. Captain Miller was chief pilot of Pan American World Airways' Atlantic divis
 Igor Buketoff, an American conductor whose specialties were Russian music, particularly Rachmaninoff's, and contemporary opera, died on Friday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. In recent years Mr. Buketoff was best known for his orchestration of the first
 ATWATER-John Jacob, Jr., 82, husband of Julia Papai Atwater and a resident of Onancock, VA, formerly of Chester, NJ, passed away on Friday, September 7th, 2001. Born in NYC, Mr. Atwater was the son of the late John Jacob Atwater and Marjory Wilcox Atwater. He served in the U.S. Coast Guard 
 BRESSLER-Martin J. Attorney, 53, died on September 8, of cancer at home in New York, surrounded by his beloved family. Survived by his wife and best friend, Jane, children Amy, Lee, and Scott, parents Anne and David, sisters Bonnie Bressler and June Osterman, and parents-in-law Hannah and N
 COHEN-Barbara W. On Sept. 2, 2001. Beloved wife of Joseph M. Cohen. Loving mother of Jarrod M. Cohen, his wife Audrey, and Jon M. Cohen. Cherished grandmother of Jordan M. Cohen. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, September 12th, at 4:30 PM at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chape
 COHEN-Sylvan M., Esquire. ICSC, its Trustees, Staff and Members mourn the passing of our beloved Trustee, friend and shopping center pioneer. A founding member, ICSC Chairman 1976-1977, member of the Law Conference Committee, Chairman of the Government Affairs Committee and Chairman of the 
 GREENBAUM-Edward H., 69. Passed away on August 20 at his home in Boynton Beach, Florida. Devoted husband of Frances. Beloved father of Steven (Melissa) and Brian (Kristine). Loving grandfather to Sara, Jaclyn, Michael, and Caitlin. Retired after 38 years employment in the Circulation Depart
 KNAUER-Hyman. The partners and employees at Thurm and Heller express their sincere sympathy to Mr. Edward Knauer and family on the death of his father, Hyman Knauer.       
 LAPORTE-William Frederick, 88, of NYC and Buck Hill Falls PA on September 10, 2001. Cherished husband for 53 years of the late Ruth Hillard Laporte, beloved father of Suzanne L. Westcott, Lynn A. Ducommun and William F. Laporte, III and devoted grandfather of nine grandchildren. Funeral ser
 MURPHY-Samuel W., Jr. 73, of Menauhant, MA, and Boca Grande, FL, died peacefully on September 7, from a stroke. Loving husband of Barbara (Boyer) Murphy; father to Constance Perna of Redding, CT, Samuel III of Woodland, MN, and Rebecca Flynn of Owings Mills, MD, and grandfather to Andrew, E
 PAGENT-Robert A. Of Greenwich, CT., 87. Noted dancer/ choreographer, on September 4, 2001 of a stroke. His career began at the Chicago Opera Ballet and continued with both the De Basil and Massine Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo companies. He was featured dancer in the original productions of s
 PENTLAND-Dale Murray, 65, of Ashley Falls, MA, died on September 2, 2001 of Pancreatic Cancer. In addition to his partner, and companion of forty years, Russell Lyons, he is also survived by a sister, Joann Demurs, of Houston, TX. A memorial service will be held at 11 a.m., on Saturday, Sep
 RUST-Irving S., M.D., 71, on September 6, 2001, died of pancreatitis. Beloved husband of Cora Bowser Rust. Devoted father of Leslie, Christopher, Anthony and Jonathan. Cherishd grandfather of Elijah and Isaiah. Adored brother of Leroy Brown. Funeral service Friday, September 14, 11 AM, at t
 SIMON-Isabel. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Isabel Simon, beloved mother-in-law of our dear friend and colleague, Robert Gotlin, D.O., Chief of Orthopaedi
 SPENCER - William I. The Trustees, faculty and staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of William I. Spencer, a Life Trustee, valued friend and a generous benefactor. A successful businessman and a leader in the financial industry, Mr. Spencer was elected to the Medical Center Board o
 STARR-Roger S. on September 10, 2001 in Easton, PA. Son of Frederick and Lillie Bernhardt Starr. Devoted husband of Joanne (Jody) W. Starr. Father of Adam, Barnaby, and the late Alexandra, father-in-law of Judy and Monica; grandfather of Robin, Zachary, Brittany, Thomas, and Luke; stepfathe
 TATARSKY-Judd. The State of New York Mortgage Agency and The New York State Housing Finance Agency mourn the passing of our friend and fellow employee, Judd Tatarsky. Judd will be remembered with sincere affection for his generosity, his humble kindness and for his gentle, sweet manner. He 
 TRUGMAN-Bernard A. The 100 Club mourns the loss of Bernie Trugman, a long-standing, respected and loyal member. The members of The 100 Club send condolences to his wife Nita and his family. He will be missed.       
 Roger Starr, an outspoken thinker on urban affairs who blended a lifetime of intellectual analysis with hands-on public service and whose often provocative vision of his native New York City influenced public policy debates for decades, died yesterday in Easton, Pa. He was 83. Mr. S
 Joseph S. Berliner, a longtime Brandeis University economics professor credited with helping spur changes in the Central Intelligence Agency's methods of appraising the Soviet economy, died on Sept. 2 at a Boston hospital. He was 79 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was compli
 COHEN-Barbara W. On Sept. 2, 2001. Beloved wife of Joseph M. Cohen. Loving mother of Jarrod M. Cohen, his wife Audrey, and Jon M. Cohen. Cherished grandmother of Jordan M. Cohen. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, September 12th, at 4:30 PM at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chape
 LAPORTE-William Frederick, 88, of NYC and Buck Hill Falls PA on September 10, 2001. Cherished husband for 53 years of the late Ruth Hillard Laporte, beloved father of Suzanne L. Westcott, Lynn A. Ducommun and William F. Laporte, III and devoted grandfather of nine grandchildren. Funeral ser
 NELSEN-Don. Died September 8th at 75. Former Daily News jazz and drama critic. Survived by his wife, Ricki Fulman, mother Olive, son Bobby, three grandchildren. Contributions can by made to the American Diabetes Association.       
 ROSENTHAL-Peter, 54. Of New York City. The Senior Executive Vice President of Rubenstein Associates, died Sept. 10, after a long illness. Howard J. Rubenstein and the staff of Rubenstein Associates mourn the loss of Peter & extend their condolences to his family, loved ones and many friends
 SCHISGALL-James (Jim). Truly a remarkable, intelligent and funny guy. Died at age 67 on September 10, 2001, after a lengthy and brave battle with cancer for seven years. Beloved and dedicated husband of Beth. Devoted and loving father of Stuart, Alex and Robbie. Son of the late Lillian and 
 SPENCER-William I. The Board of Directors, Executive Director, staff, children and families of Berkshire Farm Center and Services for Youth express our deepest sorrow on the passing of William I. Spencer. He was a vital and generous member of our Board of Directors for 48 years. He held var
 STARR-Roger S. on September 10, 2001 in Easton, PA. Son of Frederick and Lillie Bernhardt Starr. Devoted husband of Joanne (Jody) W. Starr. Father of Adam, Barnaby, and the late Alexandra, father-in-law of Judy and Monica; grandfather of Robin, Zachary, Brittany, Thomas, and Luke; stepfathe
 STEIN-Jacob L., 90 years old. Died September 9, 2001, in Florida. He was predeceased by his first wife Cecil Hyman Stein and their son William. He is survived by his wife Lillian Warshal Stein, her two sons Rabbi Bruce Warshal (Lynne) and Melvin Warshal (Sandra), his daughter Francine and h
 VITALE-Dr. Albert G. A prominent Cardiologist and Medical Educator at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York for nearly 50 years, died Sunday, September 9, 2001, of Convent Station, NJ, formerly of Summit, NJ. He was devoted to his beloved wife, Helen of 46 years, his three c
 Peter Rosenthal, senior executive vice president of the Manhattan public relations firm Rubenstein Associates, died on Monday. He was 54 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney failure, said his wife, Terri Thompson. Mr. Rosenthal joined the company in 1976 as an accoun
 Richard G. Green, a lawyer who defended First Amendment freedoms, died on Sept. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Mr. Green was the defense lawyer in a celebrated Vietnam War-era case involving Stephen Radich, owner of the Radich Gallery at 818 Madison Avenue. Mr. Radich was tr
 Dr. Wardell B. Pomeroy, a prominent psychologist who half a century ago helped Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey rechart the sexual landscape of America, died on Sept. 6 at the retirement community where he lived in Bloomington, Ind. He was 87 and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, his family 
 Daniel C. Lewin, a co-founder of Akamai Technologies Inc., a leading developer of Internet services, died on Tuesday in the World Trade Center attack, the company said. He was 31. Mr. Lewin was aboard American Airlines Flight 11, a Boeing 767 that took off from Boston Tuesday mornin
 John Gavin Hurd, a Texas oilman chosen by President Richard M. Nixon to be ambassador to South Africa in the apartheid era, died on Thursday at his home in San Antonio. He was 87. Mr. Hurd held the post from 1970 to 1975, beginning soon after the Nixon administration ordered a revie
 The Rev. Mychal F. Judge, a chaplain with the New York City Fire Department since 1992, died amid a rain of debris at the World Trade Center on Tuesday as he ministered to victims. He was 68 and lived in a Franciscan friary across West 31st Street from a firehouse. His head was stru
 FISCHER-Sol. On September 10, 2001. Loving husband of the late Ruth. Beloved father of Barry and father-in-law of Beth. Cherished uncle and great uncle. Service Thursday, September 13 at 1:00pm from ''Garlick-Riverside Memorial Chapel'', 1439 Unionport Road, Bronx, NY. Contributions in his 
 GOLDENHAR - Maurice, M.D. Born January 15, 1924. Died September 11, 2001 after a long illness. Loving and beloved husband of Paulette, father of Francine and Edith, grandfather of Lucas and friend to many. Retired family physician and Professor of Family Medicine at SUNY Stony Brook. He ded
 GRAY-Andrew L. Wagner friends mourn the death of the translator of Richard Wagner's ''My Life''. His scholarship will keep his name alive, and those who loved him will love him always.       
 LEIBNER-Sol. A kind and gentle man-a man of impeccable integrity. Prominent CPA in New York for more than 60 years. Died September 12, 2001 in Long Beach, NY. Devoted father of Richard and his wife Carole Cooper of New York City, and Jerry and is wife Denise of Baldwin Harbor, NY; loving gr
 MARTINES-Adrienne (Savoca). Of Boynton Beach, formerly of Brooklyn, died peacefully at home in Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved wife of 54 years of Arty, loving mother of Arthur John and his wife, Eileen, and the late Andrew James, devoted grandmother of Alison and John, cherished sister of Roy a
 NELSEN-Don. Died September 8th at 75. Former Daily News jazz and drama critic. Survived by his wife, Ricki Fulman, mother Olive, son Bobby, three grandchildren. Contributions can by made to the American Diabetes Association.       
 SCHWARTZ-Alvin. 89 years old. Died peacefully at home surrounded by his loving family on September 12, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy Spear Schwartz. Loving father of Jane and Edward Stein, Amy and Charles Spielman, and Thomas and Lonnie Schwartz. Adored by his grandchildren Phil
 SHEERIN - Raymond Thomas. Born February 18, 1934. Died August 13, 2001 after a long and brave battle with prostate cancer. Survivers include his beloved wife Barbara, children and step-children Laurie, Raymond Jr. (Pat), Matthew (Eileen), Mark, Lisa (Jussi) Melartin, Michael Waitzman, eight
 SPECTOR-Philip J., DDS. Peacefully on September 12th, 2001, after a long illness. Husband of Leona, father of Susan, Linda (Peter Jacobson) and Warren (Caroline), grandfather of Alexander and Hannah Jacobson, brother of Lillian Raiten, Sylvia Fiegelman and Irving Spector. He also will be mi
 STARR-Roger S. on September 10, 2001 in Easton, PA. Son of Frederick and Lillie Bernhardt Starr. Devoted husband of Joanne (Jody) W. Starr. Father of Adam, Barnaby, and the late Alexandra, father-in-law of Judy and Monica; grandfather of Robin, Zachary, Brittany, Thomas, and Luke; stepfathe
 STOLLER-Elias R., M.D. On September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Beatrice and the late Ruth. Loving father of Robert and Philip. Dear brother of Sydney and the late Norman. Cherished uncle, great-uncle, godfather, treasured friend and mentor to a generation of doctors. Services Friday 11:45
 VITALE-Dr. Albert G. A prominent Cardiologist and Medical Educator at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York for nearly 50 years, died Sunday, September 9, 2001, of Convent Station, NJ, formerly of Summit, NJ. He was devoted to his beloved wife, Helen of 46 years, his three c
 SCHWARTZ-Alvin. All of us at Helmsley-Spear, Inc. mourn the loss of Alvin Schwartz, the company's co-chairman and a giant in the real estate industry. During the last 55 years, Mr. Schwartz earned the respect and enjoyed the admiration of his colleagues at Helmsley-Spear, Inc. His friendshi
 Peter J. Ganci, the New York City Fire Department's highest-ranking uniformed officer, died on Tuesday in the collapse of the World Trade Center towers. He was 54. His death was confirmed yesterday by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Fire Commissioner Thomas Von Essen. Chief Ga
 William Feehan, the Fire Department's second-highest official, whose knowledge and cunning in battling fires himself made him the stuff of legend to his firefighters, died Tuesday when the south tower of the World Trade Center collapsed on his command station. He was 71 and lived in Flushin
 Alvin Schwartz, long prominent in New York City's real estate industry as an associate of and successor to the real estate magnate Harry Helmsley, died on Wednesday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Schwartz became one of two co-chairmen of the real estate concern Helms
 Christian Adams, a prime promoter of German wines as deputy director of the German Wine Institute, a quasi-governmental organization, died on Tuesday aboard the hijacked plane that crashed in southwestern Pennsylvania, the institute said. He was 37. Mr. Adams was going to San Franci
 David Angell, a creator and executive producer of the NBC series ''Frasier,'' died on Tuesday on American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston. He was 54 and lived in Pasadena, Calif. Mr. Angell was returning with his wife, Lynn, 52, to California from their summer home in Chatham, Mass.,
 The seventh Earl of Carnarvon, the racing manager for Queen Elizabeth II for more than 30 years, died Tuesday at his family seat, Highclere Castle, in Newbury, Berkshire, England. He was 77. He died after a heart attack, the British press reported. An aristocrat with a fortu
 ALEXANDER-Shepard L. On September 12, 2001. He was 100 years old. Beloved husband of Patricia. Loving father of Michael, father-in-law of Ann-Marie and step-father of Paul. A memorial service will be scheduled at a later date. ALEXANDER - Shepard L. Hamershlag Kempner & Dodeles regr
 ANDREI-Lucian. The friends and family of Mircea Lucian Andrei regret to announce his untimely death on September 7, 2001. Architect, artist and writer, Lucian will be mourned by many who share their condolences with his wife, Anda, and his parents, Ana and Virgil Andrei.       
 GREENE-Donald F. Of Greenwich, CT, on September 11, 2001. The Safe Flight Instrument Corporation, its management and staff are grieved and shocked by the tragic loss of Donald F. Greene, our Executive Vice President, in the crash of United Air Lines Flight 93. Victim of a terrorist attack o
 HOCHMAN-Isaac. Born in Poland December 2, 1913. Died September 8, 2001. Son of mill owners in Poland. Beloved husband of 63 years to Genevieve. Father of Dr. Joseph Hochman, Michael Hochman and Irena Hochman. Fatherin-law to Dr. Regina Lichtsztral, grandfather to Eva and Mark. Survivor of t
 LEIBNER-Sol. A kind and gentle man-a man of impeccable integrity. Prominent CPA in New York for more than 60 years. Died September 12, 2001 in Long Beach, NY. Devoted father of Richard and his wife Carole Cooper of New York City, and Jerry and his wife Denise of Baldwin Harbor, NY; loving g
 LEVY-Gus. Born on February 23, 1907. Died September 13, 2001 after a long and happy life. Beloved husband of Frances and the late Beatrice. Loving father of Elaine (Eric) and Marjorie (Richard). Cherished grandfather of Adam (Jessica) and Beth. Gus was adored by his many siblings as well as
 MAGARIAN-Nazareth, 71. A founding partner of the law firm Nobile, Magarian and DiSalvo, died on September 11, 2001 at home in Briarcliff Manor, NY. Naz was born on November 30, 1929 in the Bronx, NY, to Karl and Victoria (Soovajian) Magarian. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the
 MELLO-Christopher D. A victim of the American Airline Flight 11 catastrophe, Christopher D. Mello, 25, of Boston, Mass, formerly of Rye, New York, died September 11, 2001. Chris was born June 22, 1976 in Greenwich, CT to Douglas and Ellen Mello. Chris was an outstanding student and athlete 
 MOORE-Rev. Robert A. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of retired parochial vicar of St. Ephrem's Church, 929 Bay Pkwy, Brooklyn on Wednesday September 12. Reposing at Sessa Funeral Home, 6924 Fort Hamilton Pkwy, Brooklyn on Sunday September 16, from 2-4:30 & 7-9PM. Funeral Mass o
 REEVES-David Martin, 52. Of Upper Montclair on September 12, 2001, son of Claire Steedly Reeves, brother of Claire Reeves LaRoche, & Elizabeth Reeves Wells, companion of John V. Moore. A memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in his memory t
 ROSENTHAL-Peter. The members of the Board of Governors of the Bronx High School of Science Endowment Fund, the Alumni Association, and the entire Bronx Science community mourn the passing of our esteemed alumnus, Peter Rosenthal, Class of 1964. His support and dedication to our school will 
 ROSENZWEIG-Phil. We mourn the loss of our son Phil who was on Flight 11 out of Boston. We grieve with his wife Lauren, his sons Jeremy and Max, his brother Allan and all the people who loved him. He was a beautiful, special person and we will miss him forever. Harold and Evelyn Rosenzweig  
 SCHWARTZ-Alvin. 89 years old. Died peacefully at home surrounded by his loving family on September 12, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy Spear Schwartz. Loving father of Jane and Edward Stein, Amy and Charles Spielman, and Thomas and Lonnie Schwartz. Adored by his grandchildren Phil
 SPECTOR-Dr. Philip J. The Trustees and staff of Reading Reform Foundation mourn the death of Dr. Philip J. Spector who, with his wife Leona D. Spector, gave so much of his time, knowledge and spirit to our organization. We extend our condolences to the family he loved so much.       
 STARR-Roger S. on September 10, 2001 in Easton, PA. Son of Frederick and Lillie Bernhardt Starr. Devoted husband of Joanne (Jody) W. Starr. Father of Adam, Barnaby, and the late Alexandra, father-in-law of Judy and Monica; grandfather of Robin, Zachary, Brittany, Thomas, and Luke; stepfathe
 STEIN-Donald O., 77. died Sept. 13, 2001. A man of quiet greatness, a loving and kind husband, father, grandfather and friend. Beloved husband of Bette Stein. Loving father of Barbie (Steven) Jaffe, Billy Stein (Rebecca Weis), Jamie (Steven) Walker. Adored by his grandchildren Melissa, Aman
 MOORE-John McDonald. January 11, 1919-September 14, 1999. Devoted teacher, beloved parent, grandparent and brother, cherished husband. ''Set up no stone to his memory. Just let the rose bloom each year for his sake.'' R.M. Rilk       
 Robert Pagent, a dancer and choreographer who appeared in the original productions of ''Oklahoma!'' and ''Carousel'' and a pioneering director of dance for television during its early years, died on Sept. 4 in Greenwich, Conn., where he lived. He was 87. Mr. Pagent's career took him
 Irving S. Shapiro, a former chairman of the DuPont Company who evolved into corporate America's lead liaison to Washington in the 1970's, died on Thursday. He was 85. ''He was in many respects the first DuPont 'public' chief executive,'' said Chad Holliday, the current chairman of D
 ALEXANDER-Shepard L. On September 12, 2001. He was 100 years old. Beloved husband of Patricia. Loving father of Michael, father-in-law of Ann-Marie and step-father of Paul. A memorial service will be scheduled at a later date.       
 FOLGER-Jane. The members and staff of Herzfeld & Rubin PC join with our colleague Michael Folger in mourning the death of his mother who perished with his aunt in the unspeakable September 11 terrorist attack on their plane. We pray that he and his family will take comfort in the memory of 
 GARDNER-Douglas B. Adored husband of Jennifer, loving father of Michael and Julia, cherished son of Charlotte and Joseph and treasured brother of Danielle was lost in the tragedy at the World Trade Center. He was a graduate of Riverdale Country Day School and Haverford College, where he was
 KIRWIN-Glenn. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth Chasen, Associate Rabbi       
 LEIBNER-Sol. He was a lovely man and he is missed. Nancy, Bruce and Emily       
 LEIMAN-Hilda. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of Gurwin extend deepest sympathy to David Leiman, Member of our Gurwin Jewish-Fay J. Lindner Residences Board of Directors, on the loss of his mother, Hilda. Our condolences to his father, Sol and the entire family. Martin Egl
 LOMARS-Andrew Bart. Of Miami on September 12, 2001. Beloved husband of Eileen. Adored son of Renee and Harold Lomars. Loved by Uncle and Aunt, Mel and Bess Brenner, and his cousins & family. Best friend of many people. Wellknown in the hotel industry in NYC and Miami. A member of Les Clefs 
 McCABE-Michael Justin, 42. Of Rumson was killed Tuesday at the World Trade Center in New York City. Mr. McCabe had recently joined Cantor Fitzgerald in the equity trading department. Prior to that, he worked at Prudential Securities in New York City for 18 years, where he served most recent
 ROBSON-Donald Arthur. Tragically lost at the World Trade Center. Husband and loving partner of Kathy. Loving, devoted and supportive father of Geoffrey and Scott. Dearest son of Joan Robson and the late Charles J. Robson. Beloved and cherished brother of John (Esther) and Nancy (Richard) Ha
 SCHIRMER-Reverend Thomas E., Cleveland native, died New York City May 27th, 2001 after a brief illness. He was 59 years old. Father Schirmer was the Rector of All Saints Episcopal Church in Parma before taking over as Priest in Charge at St. Andrews Church in Astoria, New York. Noted for hi
 STARR-Roger S. on September 10, 2001 in Easton, PA. Son of Frederick and Lillie Bernhardt Starr. Devoted husband of Joanne (Jody) W. Starr. Father of Adam, Barnaby, and the late Alexandra, father-in-law of Judy and Monica; grandfather of Robin, Zachary, Brittany, Thomas, and Luke; stepfathe
 STEIN-Donald O., 77. died Sept. 13, 2001. A man of quiet greatness, a loving and kind husband, father, grandfather and friend. Beloved husband of Bette Stein. Loving father of Barbie (Steven) Jaffe, Billy Stein (Rebecca Weis), Jamie (Steven) Walker. Adored by his grandchildren Melissa, Aman
 SUIB-Leonard W. Of New York City, age 87, died September 9, 2001 after complications from a lengthly illness. A master puppeteer of national renown, Mr. Suib was a teacher, author and creator of the Puppet Playhouse at the Mazur Theater, Asphalt Green, on Manhattan's Upper East Side. Born L
 VOLCKHAUSEN-William. Bill Volckhausen, a member of the Assocation's Board of Governors and its Secretary for many years, was a supporter of its college scholarship program and an enthusiastic advocate of public service. He was a friend whose counsel will be missed. He was, above all, a gent
 Robert Speisman, executive vice president at Lazare Kaplan International in New York, a worldwide diamond manufacturer, was among the passengers killed when the hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon on Tuesday, his family said. He was 48. Mr. Speisman was tr
 Wilson Flagg, a retired rear admiral who was one of three admirals censured by the Navy over the 1991 Tailhook sexual-assault scandal, died in the American Airlines plane that crashed into the Pentagon, his family said yesterday. His wife, Darleen, also died in the crash. Both were 62.     
 BERGER-Samuel S. 91, died on September 11, 2001. Husband of his beloved Violet. Father of Roland, Barbara and Wendy. Grandfather of Douglas, Elizabeth, Debora, Randy, Jennifer, Suzanne, Rebecca and Alison, and eleven great-grandchildren. Former resident of New Rochelle and White Plains. Own
 CONNORS-Jonathan M. Senior Vice President of Cantor Fitzgerald, died September 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center disaster. He was 55 years old. He is survived by his beloved wife Susan and two sons, Jonathan and James; also by his mother Frances, his brothers Neil and James, and his siste
 DAVIDSON-Thomas Charles, Jr. 80. September 8, 2001. Survived by his wife of 50 years Shirley-Helen Vanderveer Davidson, chidren Susan V. Davidson Morrow of Manlius, N.Y., Thomas C. Davidson, III of Bridgehampton, Laura D. Tweedy of Barrington, R.I. and five grandchildren. Born August 19, 19
 FRIEDMAN-Paul J. 45, died aboard AA Flight 11 on September 11. Born in Brooklyn, he resided in Belmont, MA. Survived by wife Audrey Ades, son ''Rocky,'' mother Selma, and siblings Iris & Alan, Amy & Mitchell, James & Krista, Meryl & David. He will be missed for his wonderful sense of humor,
 GARDNER-Douglas B. Adored husband of Jennifer, loving father of Michael and Julia, cherished son of Charlotte and Joseph and treasured brother of Danielle was lost in the tragedy at the World Trade Center. He was a graduate of Riverdale Country Day School and Haverford College, where he was
 HALVORSON-James D. 56, of Greenwich, CT, a Managing Director of Marsh, USA, located in the World Trade Center, died Tuesday September 11, in the terrorist attack on the Towers. Born January 10, 1945, he was the son of Evelyn (Jones) Halvorson and the late Arthur L. Halvorson. Jim spent his 
 HENENFELD-Dr. Milton, 86 years old, of Monroe Township, NJ, died peacefully on September 14, 2001, after a brief illness. Adoring and devoted father of Nancy Rosenfeld of New York City. Cherished grandfather of Erica Rosenfeld. Loving brother of Florence and Karolyn. He was predeceased by h
 HILFIGER-William Henry ''Billy.'' Age 45 of New York City and Roscoe, NY and formerly of Elmira, NY, died Saturday, September 15, 2001, at the Arnot Ogden Medial Center. Billy was born February 21, 1956, son of Virginia Gerrity Hilfiger and the late Richard C. Hilfiger. In addition to his m
 LEIBNER-Sol. He was a lovely man and he is missed. Nancy, Bruce and Emily       
 LETZT-Max, 87. Beloved husband of the late Ethel Letzt. Died on Sept 14, peacefully in his sleep surrounded by his caring family. Devoted father of Danny and Jeffrey and specially devoted to his daughter-in-law Lois. Cherished brother to Harry and Rose. Loving uncle to all his nieces and ne
 McCABE-Michael Justin. 42, of Rumson, was killed Tuesday at the World Trade Center in New York City. Mr. McCabe had recently joined Cantor Fitzgerald in the equity trading department. Prior to that, he worked at Prudential Securities in New York City for 18 years, where he served most recen
 McERLEAN-John Thomas Jr. Of Larchmont, NY, died at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. He was 39 years old. Born July 27, 1962, in New York City to Agnes and John McErlean Sr. He was raised in Larchmont and attended Iona Prep and St. Michael's College in Vermont. He received a BA 
 RAGAZZONI - Gian Domenico. The Attending and Professional Staffs of the Department of Medical Physics of the Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center mark with deep sorrow the passing of our colleague and friend, Gian Domenico Ragazzoni, M.S., D.A.B.R. Mr Ragazzoni came to the United States af
 RICHARDS-Gregory, 30. Died September 11, 2001. Survived by his loving wife Erin Pitt Richards, son Asher Pitt Richards, devoted father Terry Richards, loving mother Carol Richards, dear brother Paul Richards, loving sister Lisa Richards, beloved son-inlaw of Murray & Ina Pitt, brotherin-law
 ROTHENBERG-Mark ''Mickey'' D. Died September 11, among the heroes of United Flight 93. Mickey, age 52, of Scotch Plains, NJ, is survived by his wife of 30 years, Meredith, his daughters, Rachel, age 27, and Sara, age 22, and his mother, Dorothy. He was the son of the late Irving Rothenberg.
 SCHWARTZ-Alvin. 89 years old. Died peacefully at home surrounded by his loving family on September 12, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy Spear Schwartz. Loving father of Jane and Edward Stein, Amy and Charles Spielman, and Thomas and Lonnie Schwartz. Adored by his grandchildren Phil
 SEMINARA-Leonard G. Of Fort Lauderdale, Fl on September 6, 2001. He leaves behind his devoted wife Mary Jane, sons Matthew and George, daughter-in-law Laurie and grandson Jackson. He was a lifelong travel/bridal magazine executive with Brides, Modern Bride and most recently VP Advertising B
 SHAPIRO-Irving S. The law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Affiliates deeply mourns the loss of our colleague, Irving S. Shapiro. Irv was an exceptional lawyer, a trusted adviser and a wonderful friend who will be greatly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wif
 STEIN-Donald O., 77. died Sept. 13, 2001. A man of quiet greatness, a loving and kind husband, father, grandfather and friend. Beloved husband of Bette Stein. Loving father of Barbie (Steven) Jaffe, Billy Stein (Rebecca Weis), Jamie (Steven) Walker. Adored by his grandchildren Melissa, Aman
 STOLLER-Elias, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff in the Department of Medicine in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and former colleague, Elias Stoller, M.D., a member of our medical staff for over 50 years. Dr. Sto
 SWAINE-John F. On September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Suzanne. Adoring father of Sarah, Emily and Hanna. Devoted son of Frank and Maryanne. Dear brother of Dianne, Susan and Kate. He was employed for the last decade as a corporate bond broker for Cantor Fitzger
 TARLOWE-Morris Arthur ''Sonny.'' Passed away in Boca Raton, FL, on August 28, 2001, he was 89. His was a gentle soul and loving heart. He embraced life. He will be dearly missed but his spirit lives on in everyone who knew him. Contributions in Arthur's memory may be made to A.M.C., 1600 Pi
 VITALE-Albert G., M.D. The Department of Medicine of St. Vincent's Hospital mourns the loss of Dr. Albert G. Vitale, first Chief of Cardiopulmonary Medicine and former President of the Medical Staff. We remember Dr. Vitale as an outstanding friend and teacher, and as a compassionate and wis
 Raymond Edward Johnson, a versatile radio and stage actor who provided a signature moment for radio as the ghoulish host with the creaking door in the long-running ''Inner Sanctum,'' died on Aug. 15 in Wallingford, Conn. He was 90. Mr. Johnson was a familiar presence in the radio se
 George I. Reynolds, a pioneer in cable television, died on Aug. 22 at his home in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 85 and also had a home in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Reynolds became interested in the potential of cable television in the 1960's, when cable was a technology that was largely 
 BERRY-David Shelby. The family of David Shelby Berry is stunned by his sudden death Tuesday morning, September 11. He perished from the terrorist attack on Two World Trade Center. David, 43, was executive vice-president and Director of Research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., specialists 
 COHEN-Helen Miller. Congregation Orach Chaim expresses its heartfelt condolences to our devoted former president, Bernard B. Cohen on the passing of his mother, a true Ayshit Chayil, a woman of valor and Chesed. May he and entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
 COUGHLIN-Timothy John, 42. Lost but never to be forgotten, in the World Trade Center disaster, of New York and of Westhampton Beach (formerly of Manhasset). Senior Managing Director of Cantor Fitzgerald Securities and of ESpeed. Loving husband of Maura (O'Callaghan) and devoted father to Ry
 CRUIKSHANK-Robert Lane. Beloved husband of Marianne, loving father of Christina and Douglas and his wife Lisa, grandfather of Lindsey, died as a result of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. He is also survived by his mother, brother and two sisters. Services Saturday, September
 DINERMAN-Irving Paul. Beloved, generous and kind husband, father and grandfather. Survived by his wife Shirley (nee Zax), children Jane, Barry and Richard, grandchildren Catherine, Brian, Kate, Shannon, Danny and Anna. He was an attorney and founding partner of Dinerman, Bergam and Dinerman
 FOWLER-Glenn Crew, 77. A reporter and editor for the New York Times for 37 years until his retirement in 1991, died on September 10, 2001, at NYU Medical Center. He had covered news on many fronts from city and state politics to retailing, and had also been editor of the real estate section
 GARDNER-Douglas B. It is with great sadness we say goodbye to Doug. A former colleague, he was our best example of what is good in a person. His integrity, generosity of spirit and his kindness will be remembered forever. We will miss him very much. We extend our deepest sympathies to his w
 GILBERT-Sidney Philip. On September 14, 2001. Much loved husband of Cheryl, father of Jay Coen Gilbert and Allison Gilbert Weintraub, son of Bertha Gilbert & the late William Gilbert, brother of Richard Gilbert, grandfather of Dexter Ridley and Jake. He will be sorely missed by a huge, exte
 HAGGERTY-James J., Rt. Rev. Msgr. On Sept. 14, 2001. Pastor Emeritus, St. Saviour R.C. Church, Brooklyn, NY. Formerly associated with St. Michael's, Brooklyn, NY; St. Mel's, St. Teresa's and Our Lady of The Angelus R.C. Churches, Queens, NY. Resident of Breezy Point for 50 years. Beloved so
 HARGRAVE-Timothy J. (T.J.). 38. Of Readington Township, Associate at Cantor Fitzgerald, was lost in the World Trade Center tragedy. Mr. Hargrave was born in New York City and raised in West Milford, NJ. He was a resident of Readington for four years and coached his children's soccer teams. 
 HARTZ-John C., 64. Of Basking Ridge, NJ and East Orleans, MA, died September 11, 2001 at World Trade Center New York City. Senior Vice-President Fiduciary Trust International. President Somerset Hills Country Club, Bernardsville, NJ. Graduate of Groton School, Trinity College and Columbia B
 KIRWIN-Glenn Davis. Born November 3, 1960. Tragically September 11, 2001. You had it all, brains, generosity, athletics, loving son, husband, father. Loved by all who knew you. You set the benchmark for everyone in your excellence. Our hearts are broken for your family, Joan, Miles, Troy, y
 KOPLIK-Perry H. Died peacefully at the age of 94. Beloved husband for 67 years of Estelle (Schulman). Devoted father of Michael and the late Kenneth. Cherished father-inlaw of Joyce and Diane. Much adored grandfather of Abigail, Kathryn, Michelle and David. For information contact Frank E. 
 LEWIN-Daniel M. The co-founder of Akamai Technologies, murdered on September 11th aboard American Airlines flight 11 which crashed in New York City. A resident of the Boston area, 31 years of age, Danny was born to be a leader and an inspiration to all he met. In a tragically short life, he
 McGUINN-Francis Noel. Of Rye, New York, died tragically and without cause on September 11, 2001, at One World Trade Center. Mr. McGuinn worked for Cantor Fitzgerald on the 105th floor as the Managing Director of Emerging Markets. Mr. McGuinn was born to Edwin John (deceased) and Vera Sheeha
 WIENER-Paul. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our Board member and community leader, Jonathan Wiener, upon the loss of his father. May he and his entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 William I. Spencer, who as the No. 2 executive at the holding company for what became Citibank helped propel the bank to the top of the industry, died on Sept. 9 at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 84. He worked under Walter B. Wriston, the chairman, who cited Mr. Spencer's agilit
 Fred De Cordova, who skipped lightly and most often anonymously among the pinnacles of American show business, most prominently as producer of ''The Tonight Show'' for Johnny Carson, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Beverly Hills. Mr. Cordova mov
 Glenn C. Fowler, who was the real estate editor of The New York Times from 1956 to 1972 and worked at the paper for 36 years, died on Sept. 10 at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in the Gramercy Park area of Manhattan. The cause was prostate c
 BENDINER-Elmer. We mourn the death of author-journalist, Elmer Bendiner. Elmer died peacefully in his sleep on the morning of September 16, 2001. He will be missed by all those who knew his keen wit, his modesty and his intelligence. Elmer Bendiner's memory is cherished by his many friends 
 BURR-Barry D., Washington Depot, CT-of Juniper Meadow Road, died Saturday in Litchfield, CT. He was the husband of Jean ''Jammy'' Burr. Memorial service Saturday, September 29 at 11:00 AM at St. John's Episcopal Church, Washington Green, CT       
 CHERRY-Douglas MacMillan 38, tragically lost September 11 at the World Trade Center. Husband of Sarah, awesome father of Emma, Isabel and Jack. Son of Douglas and Anne, brother of Meg Smith and Barbara Schenck. Brother-inlaw of Drew Smith. Bill Schenck and Burns and Ruth Patterson. Uncle of
 CHEVALIER-Swede Joseph. 26, of Locust, NJ, an equities trader at Cantor Fitzgerald, died September 11 at World Trade Center. Graduate of Cornell University, 1998, The Peddie School, Christian Brothers' Academy, Rumson Country Day School. Member of Phi Delta Theta and Sphinx Head Honorary. V
 CUDINA-Richard Joseph. 46, of Glen Gardner, NJ, formerly of Secaucus, NJ, on Tuesday, September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Georgia (nee Sedelmeyer). Dear brother of William, his wife Anita; Marcus, his wife Madeleine; and Christopher, his wife Mary. Caring uncle of Melissa, Erica, Barbara
 DONNELLY-Francis E. Psychotherapist, writer and a founder of The Studio Museum in Harlem died peacefully in his sleep Thursday, September 13. He is survived by his companion of 24 years, Michael Kahn; his beloved niece Meg Lucas and her partner Barbi Schreiber; his dear friend Martin Skea a
 FOWLER-Glenn C. The New York Financial Writers' Association regrets the passing of its longtime member, Glenn C. Fowler. The Association wishes to express its deepest sympathy to his family and friends. Susan Rodetis, President       
 GARDNER-Douglas B. It is with profound sadness and a sense of utter despair that the Educational Alliance notes the tragic and unconscionable loss of our Trustee, Douglas Gardner, on September 11, 2001. Doug supported the Alliance's annual benefits and fundraising events and sports programs
 GOLDER-Morris T. (Teddy). On September 11, 2001, in Florida. Graduate of NYU and Captain in the US Army. Chancellor of Knights of Pythias. President and owner of T.P. Industries. He was loved and cherished by his family. He is survived by his beloved wife Louise, children Bennett, Mark and 
 GRAF-Edwin J. III, recently of Rowayton, CT, and formerly of New Canaan CT is missing in the The World Trade Center disaster of September 11. Mr. Graf, known as Ed was employed at Cantor Fitzgerald Securities as a Vice President where he worked as a bond broker in 1 World Trade Center. Cant
 GRAUBARD-Abraham, 79, of Boca Raton, Fl, formerly of Closter, NJ. Died September 15, 2001. Beloved husband for 53 years of Florence (Kurzer) and adored father of Marsha and Robert Greenstein, Sharon Graubard, and Jeffrey Graubard and Diane Brown. Cherished grandfather of Emily, Daniel, Adam
 GRAUBART-Alexander, Rabbi. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He served pulpits in California and Chicago and as vice president of the University of Judaism in Los Angeles. For the past nine years, he was the chaplain at Evanston Hospital in the Chicago area
 HABER-Max. American Friends of The Hebrew University is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear Council of Trustees member, Chicago Chapter Board Member and Benefactor Max Haber. Having no family of their own, Max and his wife Rita decided to make The Hebrew University of Jerusalem their
 HAIGH-Richard Hartman of Falmouth, MA September 15, age 87. Beloved husband of Cynthia Eldred Haigh, and of the late Isabel Emery Haigh. He is also survived by his first wife Elin Anderson Neumann of Yarmouth, MA. Father of Deborah H. Dluhy and her husband Robert of Belmont, MA, Douglas E. 
 HARNER-Edmund, on September 17, 2001. Survived by his daughter Lorraine, granddaughter Marina, sisters Stephenie Durski and Adele Cardone along with many nieces and nephews. Mass of the Resurrection Wednesday, 1 PM, St. Matthew's Church, Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. Visiting tonight, 7-9 PM, Edw
 KIRWIN-Glenn. Taken from us suddenly on September 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center tragedy. He was a loving husband to Joan, a wonderful father to Miles and Troy, a cherished son of Barbara and Paul, an adored brother of Jon, Peter, Andrew, Daniel and Jennifer, a devoted son-in-law to Sa
 KOPLIK-Perry H. We will always remember the great times we had together. Gladys and Eddie KOPLIK-Perry. A kind and generous friend, he will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Lew Rabinowitz       
 LENOIR-John Robinson, 38, of Locust Valley, NY, victim of the World Trade Center terrorist attack. Beloved husband of Susan. Devoted father of Andrew and Courtney. Also survived by his parents, John and Patricia Lenoir, brother Patrick and sister Kate. Vice President at Sandler O'Neill Part
 MARK-Lawrence. On September 17, 2001. Born August 9, 1919. Beloved husband of Annette. Loving father of Jane and her husband Frank, and Wendy. Grandfather of Andrew Lazes and his wife Julie. He'll be missed dearly by his family and friends. He took us flying and made us laugh. Funeral servi
 MILLER-Edwin Haviland, Professor Emeritus of English at New York University died September 17th at age 83 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Rosalind, father of Pamela Miller Ness, father-in-law of Paul M. Ness. He was a distinguished scholar of American Literature, publishing numerou
 MORELL-George William. 47, of Mt. Kisco, NY was lost in the tragedy at the World Trade Center where he was a Partner and VicePresident in the Mortgage Department of Cantor Fitzgerald. Beloved husband of Robbie (nee Novak); loving father of Nancy Jeanne, George, Jr., Kelsey Jane and Harrison
 MURPHY-James Francis IV. 30, of Garden City, LI, died Tuesday, September 11, in the World Trade Center. Jim, who worked for Thomson Financial was attending a trade show on the 106th floor in Tower 1. Born in Rockville Centre, NY, on February 12, 1971, Jim was raised and attended school in G
 MURRAY-Archibald R. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York is deeply saddened by the passing of Archibald R. Murray. Arch served on the Association's Executive Committee from 1978 to 1983, and was its Chair from 1981 to 1982. Arch also served as President of the New York State B
 PIERSON-John H.G., 95, September 15 at home in Lenox, MA. He leaves his beloved wife, the former Harriet-Anne Duell. Born in New York City, son of Charles Wheeler and Elizabeth Groesbeck Pierson. Yale College, 1927. Economist U.S. Government, helped author Employment Act of 1946, which he l
 SALVATERRA-Frank G. Frank Salvaterra was at his office on the 104th floor of Two World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, at 9 A.M. when tragedy struck. Frank was a partner of the investment firm of Sandler O'Neil & Partners responsible for the firm's equity research, sales and trading. He
 SANDLER-Herman S. American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra's Board of Directors and staff and the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra-mourn the loss of our esteemed Board President, Herman S. Sandler whose life was lost in the attack on the World Trade Center. His consummate leadersh
 SCHWARTZ-Alvin. United Cerebral Palsy of New York City notes with sadness the passing of our longtime friend and supporter, Alvin Schwartz. Our deep condolences to his children Tommy, Jane and Amy and the entire Schwartz family. Leo Hausman, Chairman Martin C. Hausman, President SCH
 SHEA-Daniel James. Of Pelham Manor, NY died with his brother, Joseph Shea, at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Age 37, he was born February 26, 1964 to the late Joseph C. Shea and Joan A. Shea in New Rochelle. Dan attended St. John's University, and had worked at Cantor Fitzger
 YAGER-J. Allen, M.D. 97. Of Newton, MA. Formerly of NJ. Adoring husband of Hilda, devoted father of Paul and Henry and beloved grandfather, brother, uncle and friend. In his distinguished 62 year medical career, positions included practicing cardiologist, World War II Navy doctor, Paterson,
 AUERBACH-Louis. Age 75, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Bergenfield, NJ and Marlboro, NJ, died Monday, Sept. 17, 2001 at his home. Born in Poland he was a Holocaust survivor, coming to the US in 1947. In America, the country he loved, his life was testament to what strength, determination
 BECKER-Robert Benham. Husband to Ruth. Father of Peter, Paul and Michael. Brother to Carol. Grandfather to Rachel, Erica and Josh. Died Monday, September 17, 2001, at his home in North Salem, NY. He was surrounded by family and friends who loved him, and by a love created out of his selfles
 CAMPBELL-David Otey, is missing in the World Trade Center tragedy of September 11th. Dave was employed at Keefe, Bruyette and Woods as a Senior Vice President of Equity Sales. He was loving husband to Cindy, loving father to Chip and Timmy. Survived by his parents Jane and Bev Campbell, sis
 CLARKE-Jerrold (Jerry). Age 59, passed away at home on September 15, after a courageous and zealous battle against cancer. He is survived by his adoring wife Dianne, his mother Gussie, his children Michael and Stefanie, David and Dara and Steven and Mia, his stepchildren Kim, Caryn and Rob,
 COLAIO-Stephen J. On September 11, 2001. Employee of Cantor Fitzgerald. Cherished fiance of Serena Giovi. Loving son of Victor and Mary. Beloved brother of Jean Colaio Steinbach and Mark J. Colaio. Mark, a Senior Managing Director of Cantor Fitzgerald, is currently listed among the missing.
 CUDINA-Richard Joseph, 46. Of Glen Gardner, NJ, formerly of Secaucus, NJ, on Tuesday, September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Georgia (nee Sedelmeyer). Dear brother of William, his wife Anita; Marcus, his wife Madeleine, and Christopher, his wife Mary. Caring uncle of Melissa, Erica, Barbara
 EISENSTADT-Betty. 91 years old. Widow of Benjamin Eisenstadt, longtime Trustee and benefactor of Maimonides Medical Center, who served as Secretary, Vice Chairman and Chairman during his 20 year tenure. Among Maimonides' major facilities, a testament to their generosity, are the Eisenstadt 
 FRASER-Richard K., 32, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack. Survived by his loving wife, Suzanne, and beautiful son, Aidan C., age 21 months; also by his parents Charles E. and Kathryn F. Fraser; his brother Leland B. and sister Margaret A. Aaron. A Memorial Mass will
 GLICK-Steven Lawrence, 42. Beloved husband and best friend of Mari; loving father of Colin and Courtney; devoted son of Ester and the late Herbert, caring brother of Ellen, Stefanie, Gordon and Robert; joyful son-in-law of Libby Adler Mages and brother-in-law of Wendy. Died while attending 
 HADDAD-Ralph J. On September 15, 2001. Survived by his father Dr. Jamil R. Haddad & two brothers, John and James. Wake at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Avenue (at 20th Street) NYC, Friday 3-5 and 79PM. Funeral Mass on Saturday 10AM at Epiphany R.C. Church, East 22 Street and 2nd Ave, NYC. I
 ISKENDERIAN-Aram of Merrick, L.I. on Tuesday, September 11, 2001 tragically at the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Sheri, devoted father of Meryl, Kara, Alex and Jason. Loving son of Aram and Patricia, and loving sonin-law of Jack and Elaine Pearlman. Cherished brother of Haig and An
 KOCH-Sigmund, 79. Of East Norwich, NY. Died Friday, September 14, 2001 at Weinburg Campus in Buffalo after a prolonged illness. Born February 15, 1922 in Vienna, Austria he was the son of the late Joseph and Regina Koch. He was a member of the Jewish War Veterans and an educational consulta
 MARK-Lawrence. On September 17, 2001. Born August 9, 1919. Beloved husband of Annette. Loving father of Jane and her husband Frank, and Wendy. Grandfather of Andrew Lazes and his wife Julie. He'll be missed dearly by his family and friends. He took us flying and made us laugh. Funeral servi
 MILLER-Edwin Haviland, Professor Emeritus of English at New York University died September 17th at age 83 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Rosalind, father of Pamela Miller Ness, father-in-law of Paul M. Ness. He was a distinguished scholar of American Literature, publishing numerou
 MURPHY-Brian Joseph. Devoted husband of Judith Bram Murphy, active and loving father of Jessica and Leila, beloved son of Harold and Christina, adored brother of Ann, Harold and Cynthia, cherished son-in-law of William and Jane Eisner Bram, dearly beloved nephew of Marguerite, dear brother-
 MURRAY-Archibald R. The Board, the President's Council, the management and staff and the Civil Support Division of The Legal Aid Society mourn the death of Arch Murray, who was a pillar of the Society, serving as its Attorney-in-Chief and Executive Director from 1975 to 1994 and as the Chai
 NELSEN-Don. Died September 8th at 75. Former Daily News jazz and drama critic. Survived by his wife, Ricki Fulman, mother Olive, son Bobby, three grandchildren. Contributions can by made to the American Diabetes Association.       
 O'SULLIVAN - Timothy. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend & long-time employee who died tragically on September 11 at the World Trade Center. Tim began his career in 1973 as personnel manager and in 1976, th
 ORDOVER-Alfred. 75. Died June 20 at his home in Saugerties, NY. Beloved husband of Mary Neill Ordover, father of Sarah and Andrew Ordover, step-father of Josh and David Touster and Cynthia Hendricks. Loving grandfather of Rachel and August Stolba. Retired Vice President of NBC, an avid and 
 RADBILL-Dr. Edwin D. September 15, 2001. Husband of Selma (nee Weinstein) of NYC, formerly of Philadelphia, brother of Edward Radbill, Ann Gintis, Jeanette Kwass, Charlotte Goldberg and Adele Nemiroff. Relatives and friends are invited to graveside services Thursday, 1PM at the Montefiore C
 REISMAN-Frank Bennett, 41, cruelly and tragically taken from his dearly loved and loving family and friends in the terrorist attack September 11 on the World Trade Center. Frank is survived and will be sorely missed by his cherished wife, Gayle, his darling children, Kasey 11 and Dillon 9, 
 RICHNER-Robert, 79. Of Lawrence, NY and Boca Raton, FL, died Tuesday, Sept.18, 2001 after an extended illness. Loving husband for 51 years of his beloved wife Edith. A loving father and devoted grandfather, he is also survived by his children, Clifford of Manhattan, Stuart & Nancy of Rockvi
 SHEA-Daniel James. Of Pelham Manor, NY died with his brother, Joseph Shea, at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Age 37, he was born February 26, 1964 to the late Joseph C. Shea and Joan A. Shea in New Rochelle. Dan attended St. John's University, and had worked at Cantor Fitzger
 SHEA-Joseph Patrick. A resident of Pelham Manor, NY died with his brother, Daniel Shea at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Age 47, he was born August 4th, 1954 to the late Joseph C. Shea and Joan A. Shea in New Rochelle. Joe grew up in Manhasset, N.Y. attended St. Ignatius Loyo
 SPENCER - William I. The Trustees, faculty and staff of The Colorado College mourn the passing of 1939 alumnus William I. Spencer, a CC trustee since 1967 and chair of the board from 1984 to 1991. The retired president of Citicorp Citibank, Mr. Spencer was also a generous supporter of the c
 WEISS-David Thomas, age 50, died tragically on Tuesday September 11 in the attack on One World Trade Center. Loving and adored husband of Marcia, treasured father of Gina Rose, beloved brother of Andrew Weiss and Arline Levine, dear son-in-law of Sheila Keller, cherished brotherin-law of Ro
 WIENER-Jeffrey. Beloved husband of Heidi, son of Wilma and Donald, brother of Robin. His life was tragically taken in the World Trade Center Terrorist Attack; but his upbeat spirit lives on. The Brotherhood Synagogue has established a fund in Jeff's memory in appreciation of his dedication 
 WOLOSOFF-Morty. Formerly a home builder, hotel owner, investor in cable systems, died in Mount Sinai Hospital on September 17th. He resided in the Sherry Netherland Hotel and also had a home in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Wolosoff was 87. He was an early developer in St. Petersburg, FL., having bui
 Samuel Z. Arkoff, the low-budget movie mogul who enticed two generations of teenagers into drive-in theaters with movies like ''I Was a Teenage Werewolf'' and ''Wild in the Streets,'' died on Sunday in Burbank, Calif. He was 83. Through 463 movies, Mr. Arkoff's philosophy of moviema
 Tank Younger, a star fullback and linebacker for the Los Angeles Rams in the decade after World War II and the first athlete from a historically black college to play in the National Football League, died Saturday in Inglewood, Calif. He was 73. He had been in failing health for som
 Edward Asbury O'Neal, an American banking executive who helped build one of Australia's best-known building societies into the fifth-largest bank in the country, died at home in Sydney on Sunday. He was 57. The cause was suspected to be a heart attack, according to a spokeswoman for
 George Ireland, who coached Loyola University of Chicago to the 1963 national basketball championship while taking a highly visible stride toward integration in college athletics, died last Friday in Addison, Ill. He was 88. Ireland coached for 24 seasons at Loyola, taking the Rambl
 Gunnar Dybwad, an early and prominent advocate for people with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities, died last Thursday in Needham, Mass. He was 92 and lived in Wellesley, Mass. Dr. Dybwad, an authority on retardation, autism, cerebral palsy and other disabilities
 AAMOTH-Gordon McCannel, Jr., age 32, of New York City, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack on September 11, 2001. Survived by his parents, Mary and (Dr.) Gordon Aamoth of Wayzata and brothers Erik and wife, Tracy; and Peter. Gordy was a 1988 graduate of The Blake Scho
 ALEXANDER - Shepard. The Board of Visitors and the Alumni Association Board of Directors of Columbia College mourn the loss of loyal alumnus, trusted advisor and generous benefactor, Shepard Alexander, Class of 1921. We extend our sympathies to his family.       
 ARKOFF-Sam. The Troma Team deeply mourns the passing of Sam Arkoff. He was a great filmmaker, friend, role model and mentor. His giant cigar glows forever in our hearts. Lloyd Kaufman and Michael Herz Troma Entertainment       
 BAUER-David, Rumson, NJ. Victim the World Trade Center Attack. Graduate of Red Bank Catholic and Villanova University. Mr. Bauer was head of Global Sales for E-SPEED, Division of Cantor Fitzgerald. Prior to joining ESPEED, Dave was with Credit Suisse First Boston; where he was head of Fixed
 BECKER-Robert. Yeshiva University Museum is deeply saddened by the loss of a cherished friend and advisor. Bob's aesthetic sensibility and skilled designs are reflected in YUM's exhibitions, galleries and offices. YUM presented Bob with the Omanut award in recognition of his two decades of 
 BERRY-Joseph John. Of Saddle River, N.J. Joe was a victim of the World Trade Center tragedy. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Cherished father of Joseph Scott, Todd Patrick and Kimberly Ann. Our family and community have lost a person of great integrity, generosity and unbridled love for his fell
 BOULTON-J. Howard Jr. Suddenly taken from us on September 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center tragedy while working at Euro Brokers. He was a loving and devoted husband of Vigdis. Father of Frederick Tomas. Son of J. Howard Boulton Sr. and Renata Szokoloczi both of Caracas, Venezuela. Broth
 CHUSE-Robert A. Age 93. Of Leonia, N.J. Beloved husband of Eve. Loving brother of Bette Chuse Silverman (Rockville Centre, New York), Lillian Chuse Wurzberg (Long Beach, N.Y.) and Emanuel Chuse (Upper Darby, PA.). Cherished grandfather of Rebecca P. Chuse (Denver, CO.). He was the author of
 DUFFY-Christopher Michael. A resident of Crestwood. Died on September 11, 2001 in the attack on the World Trade Center. He was born February 19, 1978 in the Bronx to John and Kathleen Duffy. Chris grew up in Crestwood and attended Annunciation Grammar School and graduated from Fordham Prepa
 DUNCAN-Nathaniel Hammond, 14, of London, England and Chatham, Massachusetts, died Sunday at Children's Hospital in Washington, DC, almost a year after he was first diagnosed with a brain tumor. After initially receiving treatment in London, he had come to Washington in May. His parents, Jim
 EISENSTADT-Betty. 91 years old. Widow of Benjamin Eisenstadt, longtime Trustee and benefactor of Maimonides Medical Center, who served as Secretary, Vice Chairman and Chairman during his 20 year tenure. Among Maimonides' major facilities, a testament to their generosity, are the Eisenstadt 
 FERGUS-Edward T., Jr. A Wilton resident and a former 12 year resident of Norwalk, died September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center terrorist attack. He lived in Wilton with his beloved wife Linda Limburg, his daughter Shannon Marie and son Thomas William. He is the son of Edward T. and Dor
 GALVIN-Thomas Edward. A resident of Manhattan, died at the World Trade Center on September 11, 200l. Age 32, he was born November 29, l968 to Diverra Galvin and John M. Galvin in Bronxville, NY. He grew up in Greenwich, CT. and graduated from Greenwich High School in l986. During his high s
 GORDON-James Stewart (83). Retired Roving Editor for Readers Digest. Died September 18th at Lenox Hill Hospital after a short illness. He is survived by his brother, Raymond Gordon in Pittsburgh, two sons, Tom StewartGordon in Dallas and Charles Stewart-Gordon in Eugene, Oregon, and a daugh
 HAYNES-W. Ward, 35, of Rye. A commodities broker for Cantor Fitzgerald, he died tragically and without cause on Tuesday, September 11, at One World Trade Center. A lifelong resident of Rye, he was a devoted husband to Ann, a loving father to T.J., 12, and to his four-year-old twins, Elizabe
 HEUSTON-George Franklin. Artist from Garrison, NY. On 9/16/01. Born South Bend, WA 8/24/06. Husband of Gwendolyn R. Heuston 6/ 23/12-6/20/96. A fine artist, studied anatomy at P&S Columbia, drawing with George Bridgman, Art Students League and painting at National Academy of Design. Painted
 HIMOFF-Dudley Townsend. Age 84, September 13, 2001. Survived by his wife Dolores, their four children Jim, Harriet, Michael and Kathryn, and seven grandchildren.       
 ISKENDERIAN-Aram of Merrick, L.I. on Tuesday, September 11, 2001 tragically at the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Sheri, devoted father of Meryl, Kara, Alex and Jason. Loving son of Aram and Patricia, and loving sonin-law of Jack and Elaine Pearlman. Cherished brother of Haig and An
 JACOBS-Aaron. Of Manhattan, 27 years old, was a European equities trader at Cantor Fitzgerald. He died September 11 in the senseless tragedy of the World Trade Center attack. His great enthusiasm for life expressed itself in sports, his many friendships and travel. He was the much loved you
 LUCKETT-Edward H. II ''Ted'' 40, of Fair Haven, NJ on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center tragedy. Partner and Vice President of Cantor Fitzgerald, NYC. Husband of Lisa (nee Lindeman). Father of Jennifer Grace, William Stone II, and Timothy Wyatt. Son of Diana W. and the late Willi
 McHUGH-Michael Edward Jr. Of Tuckahoe, New York, died tragically and innocently on September 11, 2001 at One World Trade Center. He was 35 years old. Mr. McHugh worked as the director of sales for TradeSpark, a subsidiary of Cantor Fitzgerald, a brokerage firm, located on the 105th floor of
 McLAUGHLIN-Robert Carroll, Jr. 29, tragically lost in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Elizabeth and devoted father of Nicholas. Loving son of Judith and Robert McLaughlin. Cherished brother of Catherine, Julie, Steven and Michael. Treasured son-in-law of Anita L
 MURPHY-Brian. We mourn the loss of our friend, Brian Joseph Murphy, an inspirational Daddy, a wonderful friend, and a caring human being. We share our profound sadness with his wife, Judy and daughters Jessica and Leila. Elizabeth and Nathan Leight       
 MURRAY-Archibald R. Fordham University and the Board of Trustees mourn the loss of our alumnus and colleague, Archibald R. Murray. A graduate of the Fordham School of Law, he applied his significant legal talents to serving the public interest throughout his career and most especially durin
 MURRAY-John J., 32. Partner and Director at Cantor Fitzgerald Securities working in Credit Derivatives, was lost in the World Trade Center attack on Tuesday, September 11, 2001. ''Jack'', who would have celebrated his 33rd birthday on September 17, 2001, is survived by his wife Rory Owens M
 NELSEN-Don. Died September 8th at 75. Former Daily News jazz and drama critic. Survived by his wife, Ricki Fulman, mother Olive, son Bobby, three grandchildren. Contributions can by made to the American Diabetes Association.       
 O'SULLIVAN-Timothy F. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Cultural Institutions Retirement System deeply mourn the loss of a great friend and a wonderful colleague who was taken from us at the World Trade Center on September 11. Tim was the long-serving representative to CIRS from th
 PALAZZO-Thomas Anthony. Of Armonk, N.Y. Beloved husband of Lisa Ann Palazzo. Devoted father of Kristen, Keri and Kaitlin. Loving son of Dr. & Mrs. Philip J. Palazzo. Dear brother of Philip, Dick, Bettina, Robbie, Toni and Barbara. Also survived by several nieces and nephews. Mr. Palazzo wor
 PAPA-Edward J. On September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. He was 47 years old. Born July 1, 1954 to the late Charles A. and Genevieve K. Papa, he was a graduate of Chaminade High School and Boston College. Devoted husband of Patti (nee Nick) for 26 wonderful years. Dedicated father of
 POLATSCH - Laurence. Taken from us suddenly on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center tragedy. He was the loving and adored son of Linda and Buddy, cherished brother of Danny, devoted grandson of Rose Lerner, and beloved great-nephew, nephew, cousin, and friend to many. He will always
 QUACKENBUSH - Christopher. The entire NYU Law School family mourns the loss of our trustee and friend, Chris Quackenbush, a victim of the World Trade Center tragedy. Chris was a special person who combined high values with the ability to inspire others to act for the good. He was a wise bus
 RASMUSSEN - Robert Arthur. Born November 14, 1958 in Fargo, N.D. to Robert and Elizabeth Rasmussen, Robert grew up in Hunter, N.D. and graduated from Dakota High School in 1977. He received a Bachelor of Science in Construction Engineering from North Dakota State University in 1982. Robert 
 SABER-Scott H. Age 36, perished in the inferno at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Cherished son of Elaine Saber and the late Richard Saber, loving brother of Bruce (Lisa) and Brian, adoring uncle to Rebecca, Arielle and Richard; a special friend to alla man with the warmest he
 SANDLER-Herman S. American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra's Board of Directors and staff and the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra-mourn the loss of our esteemed Board President, Herman S. Sandler whose life was lost in the attack on the World Trade Center. His consummate leadersh
 SPENCER-George E., III. Of West Norwalk, CT. is missing in the World Trade Center disaster of September 11, 2001. Mr. Spencer, also known as Twig, was employed by Euro Brokers in the Credit Derivatives Division. George was in his office on the 84th floor of Two World Trade Center when trage
 WEST-Louis Allison (''Al''). Of Queens, N.Y., on September 15th. Beloved husband of Judith (Prioleau) and father of Tracey and Darrel; father-in-law of Michael Bolden and Samantha (Kopp) West; adored grandfather of Nicholas and Allyson; brother of Jacqueline; uncle of Eric, Mark, Marie, Chr
 WOLOSOFF-Morty. Formerly a home builder, hotel owner, investor in cable systems, died in Mount Sinai Hospital on September 17th. He resided in the Sherry Netherland Hotel and also had a home in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Wolosoff was 87. He was an early developer in St. Petersburg, FL., having bui
 Stuart Sherman, an innovative performance artist and playwright who also worked creatively in film, video, sculpture and other visual arts, died on Friday in San Francisco. He was 55. Mr. Sherman lived in Manhattan but had been peripatetic in recent years. The cause was AIDS, said h
 Archibald R. Murray, a lawyer born in Barbados who was the first black president of the New York State Bar Association and the second black chairman of the executive committee of the City Bar Association as well as the longtime head of the Legal Aid Society, died on Sunday in New York. He w
 David S. Berry, a financial analyst who helped explain the complexities of banking and finance to the public,  died on Sept. 11 at the World Trade Center. He was 43 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Berry was executive vice president and director for research at Keefe, Bruyette &
 David L. Yunich, who began his professional life as a minor-league catcher before rising to become vice chairman of R. H. Macy & Company and later chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority during some of the subway's darkest days, died on Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y.
 Lewis Rudin, who headed one of New York's oldest real estate dynasties, was one of the city's biggest boosters and became a behind-the-scenes power during the fiscal crises in the 1970's and early 1990's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. He died of complications o
 ARMSTRONG-Michael Joseph, 34, on September 11th, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Beloved fiance of Catherine Nolan. Devoted son of Gabriel and Mary. Cherished brother of Gerard and his wife Kathleen, Marian and Laura. Adored uncle of Jack, Keeley, Liam and Ryan. Dear nephew, cousin and frie
 BEATINI-Paul, 40. Of Park Ridge, NJ died September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center Disaster. Husband of Susan (nee Fischer) and father of Julia and Daria. He is survived by his parents Michael and Doris, his in-laws Ed and Blanche Fischer, also Michael, Tom, Nan and Mark his brothers and
 BOULTON-J. Howard Jr. Suddenly taken from us on September 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center tragedy while working at Euro Brokers. He was a loving and devoted husband of Vigdis. Father of Frederick Tomas. Son of J. Howard Boulton Sr. and Renata Szokoloczi both of Caracas, Venezuela. Broth
 DEMAS-Anthony. Of New York City and Madison, CT was lost in the World Trade Center tragedy. Born in Suffern, NY and raised in Brooklyn, NY, Mr. Demas was a graduate of Pratt Institute and earned a PMD from the Harvard University School of Business. Mr. Demas served his country as a First Li
 DOLAN-Brendan. On September 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Stacey (nee Weinstein) Dolan. Loving father of Sarah Danielle and Samantha Nicole. Devoted son of Felix Brendan and Mary (nee Tansey) Dolan. Beloved brother of Thomas, Charles, Brian and Ann. He will be deep
 DUFFY-Christopher Michael. A resident of Crestwood. Died on September 11, 2001 in the attack on the World Trade Center. He was born February 19, 1978 in the Bronx to John and Kathleen Duffy. Chris grew up in Crestwood and attended Annunciation Grammar School and graduated from Fordham Prepa
 DUFFY-Michael Joseph. Tragically at the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001 in his 29th year, loving son of the Honorable John M. Duffy (District Court Judge), and Barbara (nee Maguire) Duffy, devoted brother of Mary Kay Duffy and John M. (his wife Siobhan) Duffy, beloved grandson of Marie
 FRASER-Richard K., 32, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack. Survived by his loving wife, Suzanne, and beautiful son, Aidan C., age 21 months; also by his parents Charles E. and Kathryn F. Fraser; his brother Leland B. and sister Margaret A. Aaron. A Memorial Mass will
 GARTENBERG-James Michael. 35, on September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center. Adoring husband of Jill and daddy of Nicole. Adored by sister Julie and parents Lois and Irving. The managing mensch to myriads of relatives and friends. We all will keep his sense of joy, kindness and humor in 
 GIST-Woodrow. On September 17. We will forever miss our dear friend and treasure the closeness of our friendship. Our condolences to Sheila, Deborah and his entire family. Viewing from 5-7PM; services at 7PM on Friday, September 21 at First Jerusalem Church, Baisley Blvd and Smith St, Jamai
 GOLKIN-Andrew H. Age 30, tragically on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center. Devoted son of Gerald and Janet Golkin. Adored brother of Susan Golkin. Loved by his aunt Betsy Golkin, aunt and uncle Marian and James Cohen and cousin Charles Cohen, and the late Michael Cohen. Cherished 
 GORMAN-James Edward. On Wednesday, September 19, 2001, of Ijamsville, Maryland, devoted husband of Mildred F. Gorman and father of Mary Pat Gorman (Les Tribble), of Summit, New Jersey and Joseph P. Gorman of Washington, D.C. Grandfather of Liz and Matt Tribble and brother of Patricia Supple
 GRAY-Andrew, writer, historian, and Richard Wagner scholar, died in his Washington home on August 30th. He was 69. Mr. Gray was married to Marlis Carmon of Hamburg, Germany in 1964. The union ended in divorce in 1982. He is survived by his sister, Patricia Critchlow of Newburyport, MA; his 
 HALL-Herman. The faculty and staff of The Nightingale-Bamford School express their profound sorrow at the loss of Mr. Hall, a beloved colleague since 1982. We will miss his wisdom and brilliant insight into the minds and hearts of Nightingale girls, young and old. We extend our deepest symp
 KATES-Andrew Keith, 37. Of New York City, died tragically September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center. Andy was a devoted and loving husband to his beloved Emily and an exceptional father to his three children Hannah, 5, Lucy, 3, and Henry, 1. He was the adored son of Judith and the late L
 LeVEEN-Jeffrey Earle. Age 55 of Manhasset, N.Y., was tragically lost in the attack on the World Trade Center on Tuesday, September 11, 2001. Jeff is the beloved husband of Christine, and father to Jeff Jr. (26), Betsy (25), Andrew (23), Katie (21), and Meg (20). Jeff was a Partner and Senio
 MAIER-Barbara E. On September 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Eric. Loving mother of Christian and his wife, Gloria. Devoted sister-in-law of Elizabeth Schuster and sister of the late Christian Schuster. Adoring grandmother of Gregory. Survived by loving nieces, Caroline, Christine and t
 MARTIN-William. On September 11, 2001, World Trade Center Tower One 105th Floor. Born August 31, 1966. Trader/Golfer/Sportsman/Film Buff/Chef/and Family Man. Leaves behind an enormously stunned lifeline of Family and Friends commencing with beloved wife Deborah, his dearest sister Laura wit
 MURPHY-Brian. Your love and goodness lives on in our hearts and minds. Your enthusiastic, caring and joyful approach to life serves as an example we will try to emulate. Thank you for blessing our lives with your presence. The love you've grown and fostered through your words and deeds flou
 MURRAY-Archibald R. The Board and Staff of the New York Foundation mark with enormous sadness the death of our former Board member, Archibald R. Murray. His patience and composure guided us through many complex and charged issues at the Foundation. He was an attentive, conscientious and ver
 NEWTON-Douglas. The Trustees and Staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of Douglas Newton, revered colleague and friend, who was chairman of the Department of the Arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas from 1974 until his retirement in 1990. During his distinguished caree
 O'SULLIVAN-Timothy F. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Cultural Institutions Retirement System deeply mourn the loss of a great friend and a wonderful colleague who was taken from us at the World Trade Center on September 11. Tim was the long-serving representative to CIRS from th
 PAPA-Edward J. On September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. He was 47 years old. Born July 1, 1954 to the late Charles A. and Genevieve K. Papa, he was a graduate of Chaminade High School and Boston College. Devoted husband of Patti (nee Nick) for 26 wonderful years. Dedicated father of
 POLATSCH-Laurence. The members of the NYU-Hospital for Joint Diseases Department of Orthopaedic Surgery mourn the untimely passing of Laurence Polatsch, dear brother of our colleague and Chief Resident, Dr. Daniel Polatsch. On September 11, Laurence's life ended abruptly due to a devastatin
 REISS-Joshua Scott, 23. Of New York City. Taken from his loving family at the World Trade Center September 11, 2001. He was a bonds trader at Cantor Fitzgerald. Beloved son of Gary and Judith Reiss of Yardley, PA, dear brother of Adam, Jordan, Jonathan and Jennifer Reiss, devoted grandson o
 RUDIN-Lewis, 74 years old of New York City, co-chairman of Rudin Management Company, Inc. and Chairman of the Association for a Better New York. Died peacefully Thursday, September 20, 2001 in his home, surrounded by his loving family after courageously battling cancer. He was a great and s
 SAND-Eric Martin, 36. Of Hawthorne, NY. Died tragically on Setember 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Michele (Rosenblum) Sand, loving father of Aaron Michael, 19 mos, devoted son of Lloyd and Sandra Sand of Lake Worth, Fl. Dear brother of Elise and Stuart Fraser, adored uncle of Tommy, Scott an
 SANDLER-Herman. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the loss of Herman Sandler, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation, whose life was tragically lost in the attack on the World Trade Center. An exemplary leader of our community, Herman earne
 SHEA-Joseph Patrick. On September 11, 2001. His wife requests any donations in his memory be made to Georgetown University or the American Red Cross.       
 SIMON-Michael John. Born July 27, 1961 to the late Charles and Peggyann Simon of Rye, NY has tragically passed to his eternal rest on September 11, 2001. His wife, Eileen (nee Isacsen), their children, Brittany Radcliffe, Michael John, Jr., and Tyler Ingram have been robbed of a devoted hus
 SMITH-Warren A., 72. Of Newbern, NC, on July 13, 2001 at UNC Medical Center, Chapel Hill, N.C.; formerly of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., Frontenac, MO. & Leawood, KS. Loving husband of Jessica Gladding Smith, devoted father of Scott of Rockville, MD, Glenn of Callicoon, N.Y. and BetsAnn of Lan
 STACKPOLE-Timothy, Captain F.D.N.Y. Ladder No. 103 on September 11, 2001 in the line of duty. Devoted husband of Tara (nee Carlton). Beloved father of Kevin, Kaitlyn, Brian, Brendan and Terence. Loving son of Edward and the late Joan (nee Titus). Loving brother of Edward (N.Y.P.D.) and Patr
 WEISS-David. The entire community of Little Red School House and Elisabeth Irwin High School mourns the loss of David Weiss. Our hearts go out to his wife, Marsha, and his daughter, Gina. David was a loving dad who we will sorely miss.       
 WIENER-Paul. The partners, counsel and associates of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend our sincere condolences to the family of our client and friend, Paul Wiener, a wise and distinguished gentleman of the old school. We join his wife Rose, his sons Arthur, Joel, Jonathan and Ho
 WOLOSOFF-Morty. We will miss our friend and a partner of the Minskoffs for over half a century. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Gloria and daughter Wendy. The Family of Henry H. Minskoff Minskoff Grant Realty & Management Corp       
 YUNICH-David L.  Age 84, on Wednesday, September 19, 2001 after a courageous fight against cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife of 60 years, Beverly, his two devoted sons, Robert H. and Peter B. Yunich, his loving grandchildren Robert, Whitney and Shannon Yunich. Also survived by many
 RUOTOLO-Andrew Keogh, Jr. Nov. 5, 1952-Sept. 21, 1995 He does not die that can bequeath some influence to the land he knows.       
 WINTERS-John. Cathedral Usher. September 21, 1988. From his friends at St. Patrick's. George Cuhaj Chief Usher 1988-1989       
 Douglas Newton, curator emeritus of the department of the arts of Africa, Oceania and the Americas at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and an innovator in designing museum displays of non-Western art, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80. Born Bryan Lesl
 Francis E. Donnelly, a psychotherapist and co-founder of the Studio Museum in Harlem, died at his home in Manhattan on Sept. 13. He was 74. He died in his sleep of natural causes, said his partner, Michael Kahn. Mr. Donnelly was born in Jersey City and was educated at Columb
 Lt. Gen. Timothy L. Maude, the Army's deputy chief of staff for personnel, died on Sept. 11 in the attack on the Pentagon, the Department of Defense confirmed yesterday. He was 53 and lived in Fort Meyer, Va. General Maude was appointed to the position and promoted to his current ra
 Gen. Marcos Pérez Jiménez, who as the last military dictator of Venezuela led a government notorious for brutality and corruption, died early today in Madrid. He was 87. In the decade when he dominated Venezuela, one of the world's largest producers of oil, General Pérez Jiménez
 Neil D. Levin, the executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the landlord for the World Trade Center complex as well as the operator of the New York City area's three major airports, port facilities, bridges and tunnels, died on Sept. 11 in the collapse of the twi
 ARMSTRONG-Michael Joseph, 34, on September 11th, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Beloved fiance of Catherine Nolan. Devoted son of Gabriel and Mary. Cherished brother of Gerard and his wife Kathleen, Marian and Laura. Adored uncle of Jack, Keeley, Liam and Ryan. Dear nephew, cousin and frie
 BEATINI-Paul, 40. Of Park Ridge, NJ died September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center Disaster. Husband of Susan (nee Fischer) and father of Julia and Daria. He is survived by his parents Michael and Doris, his in-laws Ed and Blanche Fischer, also Michael, Tom, Nan and Mark his brothers and
 FRIEDMAN-Andrew K. Of Woodbury, N.Y., age 44. Missing in the tragic World Trade Center attack. Beloved husband and best friend of Lisa Beth Friedman (nee Steinberg). Adored father of sons Michael Dean and Daniel Harris, ages 11. Dearest son of Elaine and Mel Friedman. Beloved son-in-law of 
 GIRARD-Samuel R. At age 90, on September 20. Beloved husband of the late Mimi Girard. Loving father of Andrea Girard and Constance Girard. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer Girard Boron and Andrea Girard Boron. Devoted brother of Ethel Ross and Jeanne Rauch. Mr. Girard was a veteran of WWII
 GOLKIN-Andrew H. Age 30, tragically on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center. Devoted son of Gerald and Janet Golkin. Adored brother of Susan Golkin. Loved by his aunt Betsy Golkin, aunt and uncle Marian and James Cohen and cousin Charles Cohen, and the late Michael Cohen. Cherished 
 HALL-Herman. It is with great sadness that all at the Chapin School acknowledge the loss of Herman Hall, mentor, brilliant teacher, colleague and friend. Over the years, Herman touched thousands of children, parents and educators with his healing insights and gentle ways. We will truly miss
 HESS-Nathaniel. The Community Synagogue, Port Washington, NY mourns the loss of its founding president. He was our visionary and sage; his passion made us into a community. For the past 50 years, we have been blessed by his creativity, exuberant leadership, and unbounded joy. We are impover
 HINDY-Mark. A victim of the World Trade Center tragedy on September 11, 2001. In celebration of his life, a mass will be offered at Saint Anselm's R.C. Church, 4th Avenue and 82nd St, Bay Ridge, Bklyn on Monday, September 24th, 12 Noon. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations
 JACOBSON-Steven. Tifereth Israel, Town & Village Synagogue mourns the passing of Steven Jacobson on September 11, 2001 at The World Trade Center. Steve was a devoted member of the Board, Executive Board and Ritual Committee. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his wife Deborah, his daughter
 KLOOGMAN-Raoul. September 21, 2001 of Great Neck, NY. Born in Vienna, Austria, May 25, 1914. Beloved husband of the late Ruth (Weisman) Kloogman. Loving father of Joan Kloogman Borkow, Judith and Jerrald Weinstein, and Helen Kloogman and Michael Gold. Loving grandfather of Dana & Chad, Matt
 McCARTHY-Robert G. 33, died tragically on September 11, 2001, as a result of the World Trade Center disaster. He was employed on the 104th floor by Cantor Fitzgerald. He is survived by his loving wife, Annie Rosenfeld McCarthy, his four-week old son Shane Robert, his parents Robert and Patr
 QUACKENBUSH - Christopher. Age 44 of Manhasset, NY was tragically lost on September 11, 2001 in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. Chris is the beloved husband of Traci and the father of Whitney, C.J. and Kelsey. Mr. Quackenbush was a founding principal of Sandler O'Neill & Par
 RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors, staff and residents of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with deep sorrow the untimely passing of Lewis Rudin, a man of unbounded generosity and exceptional personal warmth. Lew Rudin, along with his brother Jack and their extraordinary fam
 SAND-Eric Martin, 36. Of Hawthorne, NY. Died tragically on Setember 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Michele (Rosenblum) Sand, loving father of Aaron Michael, 19 mos, devoted son of Lloyd and Sandra Sand of Lake Worth, Fl. Dear brother of Elise and Stuart Fraser, adored uncle of Tommy, Scott an
 SIMS-Julian. Died on Thursday, September 20, 2001. He is survived by his devoted brother and sisterin-law, Seymour and Marilyn Shimkowitz, his nieces Jacquline Teitlebaum and Nancy Sanchez, nephew Neil Simkowitz and best friend Morris Monowitz. For further information please call Hellman Me
 STACKPOLE-Timothy, Captain F.D.N.Y. Ladder No. 103 on September 11, 2001 in the line of duty. Devoted husband of Tara (nee Carlton). Beloved father of Kevin, Kaitlyn, Brian, Brendan and Terence. Loving son of Edward and the late Joan (nee Titus). Loving brother of Edward (N.Y.P.D.) and Patr
 Sandy Saddler, a former featherweight boxing champion who was best remembered for his four bouts with Willie Pep, died Tuesday at the Schervier Nursing Care Center in the Bronx. He was 75. He had Alzheimer's disease, his son, Sandy Jr., said. Although Saddler had 162 fights,
 John P. O'Neill, who left the F.B.I. last month to become chief of security for the World Trade Center, died in the collapse of the center on Sept. 11. He was 49. Mr. O'Neill spent the last several years heading major investigations of the Saudi exile Osama bin Laden, a prime suspec
 ASHFORTH-Henry Adams, Jr. Of Greenwich, CT, died peacefully on Friday, September 21, after a battle with cancer. He was 73. He was the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Ashforth Company, a real estate company headquartered in Stamford, CT, and former Chairman and Chief Exec
 BAXTER-Ralph M. Retired New York City photographer and Gestalt therapist, died at his home in Carlsbad, CA. on September 12, 2001. Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Baxter received his bachelor's degree from Penn State. He enjoyed a 30-year career as a photographer in advertising, fashion, art, dan
 BERNSTEIN-William (Bill) H. Age 44. Taken from us on September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center while working at Cantor Fitzgerald Co. Loving son of Norma and Morty. Beloved twin brother of Bob and cherished brother of David and Steven and their wives Desiree, Pynky and Ilise. Uncle Bill
 BRENNAN-Francis Henry. Loving husband, brother, son, uncle and loyal friend. Senior Vice President and Limited Partner Cantor Fitzgerald. Victim of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. Born Sept. 25, 1950 in Brooklyn, NY. Frank grew up in Rockville Centre the eldest of six childr
 CHWAST-Jacob, Ph.D. Of CrotonOn-Hudson, on September 18, 2001, one month shy of 86, two weeks passed his 57th anniversary of marriage to his adored and adoring wife, Ethel (nee Schaeffer), peacefully departed in the loving presence of his family. A distinguished clinical psychologist, he wi
 COHEN-Edward Arthur, 76. Formerly of Astoria and Lynnbrook, NY. Devoted son of the late Louis M. & Rose (Krum) Cohen. Loving father of Lewis and Leslie (San Diego, CA), grandfather of Allison Rose Cohen. Also survived by his former wife Mary-Jane Rund and his dear cousins Barbara Fox, Arlyn
 DICKEY-Joseph Dermot, Jr. Loving husband of Irene, devoted father of Joseph and Elizabeth, treasured brother of William and Walter and their families, and beloved nephew of Isabelle Lawson and Eileen McPeake died on Tuesday, September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center tragedy. Joe, the son
 DOHERTY-John J. Of Hartsdale, NY, an employee of AON Risk Services of NYC, missing since September 11, 2001 in the tragedy of the World Trade Center. He was the dear husband of Mary Birde Doherty & the loving father of two daughters, Barbara and Maureen. Beloved uncle of Cathy Hammacher, An
 DYMM-Mandel. Of Boca Raton, Florida and Manhasset, New York. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 EHRENKRANTZ-Ezra, 69. Of Dobbs Ferry, on September 22, 2001. An architect for the firm Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn, located in New York, NY. He was also the head of The Center for Architecture and Building Science Research at the New Jersey Institute of Technology in Newark, NJ. Beloved husb
 EULER-Henry, 91. On September 17, 2001. Resident of Bayside, NY. Widower of Alice (Revaz). Survived by his children, Aline and Henry. Father of the late Joseph. Brother of Elsie Ross Matzdorf. Brother-in-law of Mary Euler and Marguerite Muffatto. Uncle to several nieces and nephews. Many co
 FRIEDMAN-Andrew K. Of Woodbury, N.Y., age 44. Missing in the tragic World Trade Center attack. Beloved husband and best friend of Lisa Beth Friedman (nee Steinberg). Adored father of sons Michael Dean and Daniel Harris, ages 11. Dearest son of Elaine and Mel Friedman. Beloved son-in-law of 
 GARTENBERG-James Michael. 35, on September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center. Adoring husband of Jill and daddy of Nicole. Adored by sister Julie and parents Lois and Irving. The managing mensch to myriads of relatives and friends. We all will keep his sense of joy, kindness and humor in 
 GELLER-Steven. Beloved husband of Debra. Loving father of Hali. Son-in-law of Suzanne and Irving Karpas. Brother of Toby Landau and Martin Geller. Steven was lost in the World Trade Center tragedy on September 11, 2001. He celebrated life and adored his family. A memorial service will be he
 GLINE-Murray. On Monday, September 17, 2001, Murray Gline of Bethesda, Maryland, formerly of Baldwin, New York. A kind, loving man, he will be deeply missed by his wife of 55 years, Phoebe Meyers Gline, his daughters Ellen Gline Block and Barbara Gline Pearlman, his grandchildren Sarah Bloc
 HESS-Nathaniel E. American Friends of Neot Kedumim, the biblical landscape reserve in Israel, mourn the loss of our Board Chairman, one of our Founders, and long-term past President. His love of Israel and his horticultural expertise inspired his strong support. Nogah Hareuveni, Founder of 
 JOHNSON-Scott Michael. Of New York City, died in the attack on civil society at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. He was 26 years old. Scott was born on April 7, 1975 at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, New Jersey. He was a 1993 graduate of the Montclair Kimberley Academy, M
 KATES-Andrew Keith, 37. Of New York City, died tragically September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center. Andy was a devoted and loving husband to his beloved Emily and an exceptional father to his three children Hannah, 5, Lucy, 3, and Henry, 1. He was the adored son of Judith and the late L
 KELLERMAN-Peter Rodney, 35. Of New York City and South Egremont, MA on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center tragedy. Partner of Cantor Fitzgerald. Husband and soulmate of Robi Meltzer Kellerman, devoted son to Joyce Gales and beloved son-inlaw to Jeri and Steven ''Papa'' Meltzer and
 KLOOGMAN-Raoul. September 21, 2001 of Great Neck, NY. Born in Vienna, Austria, May 25, 1914. Beloved husband of the late Ruth (Weisman) Kloogman. Loving father of Joan Kloogman Borkow, Judith and Jerrald Weinstein, and Helen Kloogman and Michael Gold. Loving grandfather of Dana & Chad, Matt
 LEVIN-Neil D. Age 46, of New York City, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack, September 11, 2001. Neil was the Executive Director of the NYNJ Port Authority, a job he loved. He was a good friend, a mentor and role model for many. He will be deeply missed by his wife Ch
 MALTBY-Christian. Age 37. Of Chatham, NJ. Missing and presumed dead as a result of the World Trade Center tragedy. Christian is survived by his wife Jane and children Max 8, Morgan 5, Samuel 2. Additionally are his mother Mrs. Robert Butler of the US Virgin Islands, father Thomas Maltby of 
 MARDOVICH-Edward J. ''Mardo.'' Of Lloyd Harbor, tragically missing from the World Trade Center disaster where he was President of Euro Brokers, Inc. Forever cherished husband of Laura, loving and devoted father of Leigh (14), E.J. (12), Tori (11) and Joseph (8). Beloved son of Doris and Ed.
 McDERMOTT-Matthew T., 34. Vice President of Cantor Fitzgerald. Died September 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center disaster. He is survived by his beloved wife Susan and two daughters Kara and Kelly, and an expected child March, 2002; also his parents Jack & Jackie McDermott of Homosassa, FL
 MICCIULLI-William E. A memorial Mass will be held for William E. Micciulli, 30, of Old Bridge, who died September 11, a victim of the World Trade Center disaster in New York City. He was a Partner and Senior Vice President with Cantor Fitzgerald where he worked as an International Equities 
 MURPHY-Brian Joseph. Devoted husband of Judith Bram Murphy, active and loving father of Jessica and Leila, beloved son of Harold and Christina, adored brother of Ann, Harold and Cynthia, cherished son-in-law of William and Jane Eisner Bram, dearly beloved nephew of Marguerite, dear brother-
 NIVEN-John Ballantine, 44. Of New York and Oyster Bay, on September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Ellen and devoted father of 18month-old John Jr., (Jack). Born in Oyster Bay, NY, on July 5, 1957, he attended East Woods School, Salisbury School in CT, and Lake Forest College, IL. At the time
 RUDIN-Lewis, 74 years old of New York City, co-chairman of Rudin Management Company, Inc. and Chairman of the Association for a Better New York. Died peacefully Thursday, September 20, 2001 in his home, surrounded by his loving family after courageously battling cancer. He was a great and s
 SANDLER-Herman, 57. Loving husband of Suki, devoted father of Pamela, Gillian and Jordana, role model and mentor to hundreds of young people. You encouraged us to take risks and gave us innumerable opportunities to follow our dreams, cheering us on as we learned to impact the world as you d
 SCHWARTZ-John Burkhart. September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Ching-Ping Peng, son of Marvin and Joyce S. Schwartz of Goshen, CT, and Manhattan, brother of Daniel B. Schwartz of Phoenix, AZ, and of Pamela L. Pier of Acampo, CA, and uncle of Arianna and Aisha Pier
 STACKPOLE-Timothy, Captain F.D.N.Y. Ladder No. 103 on September 11, 2001 in the line of duty. Devoted husband of Tara (nee Carlton). Beloved father of Kevin, Kaitlyn, Brian, Brendan and Terence. Loving son of Edward and the late Joan (nee Titus). Loving brother of Edward (N.Y.P.D.) and Patr
 STEINER-Seymour, M.D. September 16, 2001, in Phoenix, AZ. Former resident of Mamaroneck, NY. Beloved husband of Arline. Loving and dearly loved father of Adam of Paris, Michele (Bruce) Ferguson of California and of the late Charles. Dear Zeder of Chelsea and Blake. Brother of Dr. Martin of 
 THEURKAUF-Thomas Francis, Jr. 44, of Stamford, CT, perished Tuesday, September 11, 2001, in the tragic events at the World Trade Center where he worked as Executive Vice President for Keefe, Bruyette and Woods. Tom was born and raised in Glastonbury, CT, received his BS from Massachusetts I
 VALDES-John Terhune. Died September 19th, 2001, in West Palm Beach, after a long illness. A memorial service is being planned for February. Mr. Valdes was born in Philadelphia, December 22, 1923, the son of Mr. and Mrs. V. Francisco Valdes of Ithan, Pennsylvania. He attended the Haverford S
 VAN LAERE-Daniel M. Of Glen Rock, NJ. Missing since September 11th in the World Trade Center tragedy. Dan was a Vice President at AON where he worked for 12 years. Graduate of Glen Rock High School, Class of 1973, and Fairleigh Dickinson University. Was a member of Glen Rock's Volunteer Fir
 ZION-Charles A., 54, Senior Vice President of Cantor Fitzgerald, died September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center disaster. Beloved husband of Carole, adoring father of Zachary, devoted son of Rabbi Martin and Jane Zion, cherished brother of Barbara Weiss, dear uncle of Rachel and John, Mi
 HERBSTMAN-Mandel. Died September 23, 2000. His literary light can never be extinguished. Love, Vera       
 MARGOLIN-Boris. He entered eternal life Rosh Hashanah 5745. A loving man and a learned Jew. Dorothy       
 Isaac Stern, a violinist who in his prime was considered one of the great instrumentalists of the 20th century, and who also became an important power broker in the classical music world after he led a successful campaign to save Carnegie Hall from destruction, died at a Manhattan hospital 
 Walter Jinotti, a biomedical engineer who developed a quick method of determining how much pollen is in the air and whose pollen counts were a staple of television and radio news in the New York region, died on Sept. 9 at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was
 Theodore Silverstein, a scholar of medieval literature at the University of Chicago whose subjects included Old English poetry and Late Latin visionary apocalypses and whose exploits as an intelligence officer in World War II were only recently revealed, died on Sept. 1. He was 96 a
 Isaac Stern, a violinist who in his prime was considered one of the great instrumentalists of the 20th century, and who also became an important power broker in the classical music world after he led a successful campaign to save Carnegie Hall from destruction, died at a Manhattan hospital 
 BORMAN-Cornelius H. Jr. and Eleanor M. Of Oakland, Maine. Cornelius, 86, died Wednesday, September 12, 2001 and Eleanor, 87, died Thursday, September 20, 2001. Neil served his country for a total of 23 years, retiring as a Lieutenant Colonel from the U.S. Army in 1956. He was an investment 
 BRADY-David Brian. Age 41. Resident of Summit, NJ, who is still officially listed as missing after the tragic events at the World Trade Center complex last week. Adored father of sons Matthew, 9, Mark, 4, and daughters Erin, 6, and Grace, 1. Dearest son of Alice and Richard Brady. Beloved s
 CRAWFORD-James Leslie, Jr., of Madison, New Jersey, 33 years old, who attended Berkshire School and graduated from Lynchburg College, was an equity trader at Cantor Fitzgerald. He died September 11th in the senseless tragedy of the World Trade Center attack. An avid sportsman, he lived life
 FABIAN-Jesse. Of Poughkeepsie, NY, age 92. Loving husband of the late Jeanette and devoted brother to the late Norman. He will be deeply missed by his son Larry, his daughter-in-law Fran and his grandsons Andrew and Daniel. He will always be remembered. Services will be held at Temple Beth-
 JOHNSON-Scott Michael. Of New York City, died in the attack on civil society at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. He was 26 years old. Scott was born on April 7, 1975 at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, New Jersey. He was a 1993 graduate of the Montclair Kimberley Academy, M
 LEVIN-Neil D. Age 46, of New York City, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack, September 11, 2001. Neil was the Executive Director of the NYNJ Port Authority, a job he loved. He was a good friend, a mentor and role model for many. He will be deeply missed by his wife Ch
 MAIO-Joseph, 32. Of Roslyn, NY, on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center in NYC. Director of Equity Derivatives at Cantor-Fitzgerald. Beloved husband of Sharri (nee Setty). Devoted father of Devon Maio. Loving son of George & Paula Maio. Dear brother of Anthony Maio and his wife Carm
 METZ-Raymond J. III. Age 37, of Trumbull, CT, a currency broker for Euro Brokers Inc., died on Tuesday, September 11, 2001 during the attack on the World Trade Center Twin Towers. Born in Lakewood, OH., and raised on the North Shore of Boston, he was the son of Raymond J. Metz Jr. and Marga
 MEYER-David R., 57 years young and a resident of Glen Rock, New Jersey on Tuesday, September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Margie (nee Kennedy) Meyer. Loving and devoted father of Dawn and Heidi Meyer & Heather Vulpone. Loving and adored grandfather of Samantha and Morgan Vulpone. Brother of
 MICCIULLI-William E. A memorial Mass will be held for William E. Micciulli, 30, of Old Bridge, who died September 11, a victim of the World Trade Center disaster in New York City. He was a Partner and Senior Vice President with Cantor Fitzgerald where he worked as an International Equities 
 MURPHY-Brian Joseph. Devoted husband of Judith Bram Murphy, active and loving father of Jessica and Leila, beloved son of Harold and Christina, adored brother of Ann, Harold and Cynthia, cherished son-in-law of William and Jane Eisner Bram, dearly beloved nephew of Marguerite, dear brother-
 PEARL-David M., 69. Of Goshen, CT and Delray Beach, FL, beloved husband of Mona, father of Clifford, Todd and Tina, grandfather of Alison, Joshua, Alexander and Bradley, and brother of Glorya, died on Saturday, September 22, at Charlotte Hungerford Hospital in Torrington, CT, having lost hi
 RUDIN-Lewis. The faculty and staff of the Center for Complementary and Integrative Medicine of Weill Medical College extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Lewis Rudin. We thank Mr. Rudin for his generous support and his many years of service to our community. All New Yorkers wil
 SANDLER-Herman, 57. Loving husband of Suki, devoted father of Pamela, Gillian and Jordana, role model and mentor to hundreds of young people. You encouraged us to take risks and gave us innumerable opportunities to follow our dreams, cheering us on as we learned to impact the world as you d
 STERN-Isaac. The Musicians, Board of Directors and Administration of The New York Pops mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Isaac Stern. A gifted artist, consummate humanitarian, and uncompromising champion of the arts, he supported the founding of The New York Pops at Carnegie Hall 
 STEWART-Richard H., 35, is missing from the World Trade Center disaster. A bond trader with Cantor Fitzgerald, he formerly worked at Lehman Brothers. A memorial service to celebrate his life will be held Friday, September 28, 11 A.M. at The Lawrenceville School chapel. In his memory, an Ice
 YUNICH-David. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America, fondly remember our Life Trustee, friend, and former President. His years of dedicated service improved the lives of thousands of young people. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Beverly, and 
 Solomon Sagall, an early proponent of pay television, died on Sept. 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in New York. He was 101. In the 1930's Mr. Sagall was among the first to seize on the commercial potential of technology for transmitting video and sound over the airwaves to remot
 David Alger, whose approach to investing in stocks propelled the mutual funds he managed to the top of the 90's bull market, died in the collapse of the World Trade Center, his wife, Josephine, said yesterday. He was 57 and had homes in Manhattan and Tuxedo Park, N.Y. According to G
 ADRIAN-Matthew Todd. Age 43, of NYC, an Immigration Judge for the Executive Office for Immigration Review. Died suddenly on September 22. Born in Sharon, CT and raised in Dutchess County. He was the son of Eleanor Jones Sells of Hilton Head, SC, and Philip Adrian of Henderson, NV. Matthew w
 BRADLEY-James F. On September 22, 2001. Beloved husband of Theresa (nee Barrett). Devoted father of Frances Brooks and Laura Guinan. Fond father-in-law of Seymour Brooks and Kevin Guinan. Proud grandfather of Elizabeth & Kevin Brooks & Brenna Guinan. Graveside services at the Calverton Nati
 CAPSON-Arthur. Retired Science teacher and Junior High School Principal in Brooklyn. He often said his greatest achievements were his daughter Alice, a high school math and computer teacher in Kansas and a graduate of Mt. Holyoke and Harvard and his grandchildren, Beth a high school senior 
 COLL-Robert J. (Bobby). Age 35. Of Glen Ridge, N.J, a long time resident of New Rochelle, N.Y. Devoted husband of Jennifer Palmer Coll. Loving father of two beautiful children, Megan Bailey age 2-1/2 and Bobby age 10 months. Beloved son of Edward and Betty Coll. Adored brother of Edward Col
 CROTTY-Kevin R. Of Summit, NJ. Died on September 11, 2001 in the attack on 2 World Trade Center. He was a Managing Director of Sandler O'Neill & Partners. He is survived by his wife Lori, his three children Megan (7), Kyle (5) and Sean (2-1/2). He is also survived by his parents, Mary and R
 DYBWAD-Gunnar. YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities is deeply saddened by the passing of Gunnar Dybwad. A distinguished member of YAI's Professional Advisory Council and a passionate speaker at our International Conference, he was a true champion of the rights of people with 
 FINNERTY-Timothy J. Of Glen Rock, NJ formerly of Rutherford, NJ on Tuesday, September 11, 2001. He was employed as a broker for Cantor Fitzgerald, WTC, NY, NY. A member of the Glen Rock Jaycees, he graduated from the University of Scranton in 1990 where he was a member of the Mens Varsity B
 HERR-Stanley S. On September 24th, 2001. Husband of Raquel Schuster-Herr. Father of David L., Deborah A. and Ilana R. Herr. Beloved brother of Judith N. Herr. Funeral services and interment to be held in Baltimore, Maryland., on Tuesday, September 25, 2001. Contributions in his memory may b
 LEVIN-Neil D. Age 46, of New York City, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack, September 11, 2001. Neil was the Executive Director of the NYNJ Port Authority, a job he loved. He was a good friend, a mentor and role model for many. He will be deeply missed by his wife Ch
 LIEBERMAN-Dr. James, Assistant Surgeon General, U.S. Public Health Service, Retired & former Director of Health of Greenwich, CT, died peacefully on September 23, 2001. He was much loved by his family, many friends and the communities he served. Survivors include his wife Lucille Lieberman,
 LYNCH-Sean Patrick. Of New York City, age 34, was tragically lost at the World Trade Center on Tuesday, September 11, 2001. Sean was a Senior Vice President of equity trading at Cantor Fitzgerald Co., Inc. on the 104th floor. Sean is survived by his parents, John and Margaret Lynch of Lynnf
 MAIO-Joseph. Tragically stolen from our family after spending what seems like only a few minutes of his precious life with us. Quiet dignity was your trademark but you also combined that with generosity and an unselfish attitude towards everyone with whom you came into contact. You were alw
 McALARY-James J. Jr., 42. Of Spring Lake Heights, NJ who was lost in the World Trade Center Tragedy on September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Jeanne (nee McCutcheon) McAlary, devoted father of Jillian, Joseph, and James, loving son of James J. Sr. and Ann (nee O'Rourke) McAlary, dear brothe
 McQUILLING-Thomas Merrick, 79. Resident of Manhasset, NY. Died on Sept. 23, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Daly McQuilling. Loving father of Lorrie Gordon, Leslie McQuilling, T. Merrick McQuilling II, Ann Denihan & Patricia Spellman. Fatherin-law of Catherine McQuilling, Harold 
 MURPHY-Brian Joseph. Devoted husband of Judith Bram Murphy, active and loving father of Jessica and Leila, beloved son of Harold and Christina, adored brother of Ann, Harold and Cynthia, cherished son-in-law of William and Jane Eisner Bram, dearly beloved nephew of Marguerite, dear brother-
 O'NEILL-John. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the tragic and untimely death of John O'Neill in the attack on the World Trade Center. John dedicated his life to fighting terrorism and making America safe and secure for all. We will miss his guidance and wise counsel. We extend our deepest 
 RODRIGUES PEREIRA-Reverend Dr. Martin M. Scientist and Chazan, June 7, 1920-September 24, 2001. Born and raised in the Netherlands, where he lived until the summer of 1942, when he escaped from Nazi-occupied Holland. Upon reaching the free world, he volunteered for service with the Free Dut
 ROSENTHAL-Richard D. The Officers and Directors of the Dysautonomia Foundation, Inc. mourn the loss of their longtime devoted officer, board member and dear friend, Richard D. Rosenthal in the World Trade Center disaster on September 11, 2001. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife L
 RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors, Advisory Council and Staff of the National Association on Drug Abuse Problems (NADAP) wish to express their deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to the Rudin family. 30 years ago Lew Rudin, along with several other business and labor leaders, saw
 SANDLER-Herman, 57. Loving husband of Suki, devoted father of Pamela, Gillian and Jordana, role model and mentor to hundreds of young people. You encouraged us to take risks and gave us innumerable opportunities to follow our dreams, cheering us on as we learned to impact the world as you d
 STERN-Isaac. The New York Philharmonic deeply mourns the death of Maestro Isaac Stern-renowned violinist, master teacher, beloved colleague and dear friend. Mr. Stern's remarkable career, which spanned more than sixty years, was inextricably linked with the Philharmonic since his debut with
 STEWART-Richard H., 35, is missing from the World Trade Center disaster. A bond trader with Cantor Fitzgerald, he formerly worked at Lehman Brothers. A memorial service to celebrate his life will be held Friday, September 28, 11 A.M. at The Lawrenceville School chapel. In his memory, an Ice
 TRAUM-Jerome S. On September 23, 2001. Beloved husband of Lynda (Sturner) Traum, devoted father of David, Norman, Daniel and Edward. Dear brother of Dr. Ronald Traum and Charlotte Steinmetz. Services Tuesday, September 25, 1PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flow
 WEAVER-Todd C., 30, New York City. Vice President of Fiduciary Trust Company International. Survived by his wife, parents, sister.       
 WYNNE-Kenneth Jr. Age 78 of Vero Beach, FL, and formerly of Hamden, CT and Mantoloking, NJ died September 16, 2001 after a prolonged illness. He was the husband of the late Patricia FitzGerald Wynne. Mr. Wynne was born in New Haven, CT and was the son of the late Judge Kenneth Wynne, a form
 ZION-Charles A. Temple Israel of the City of New York extends its deepest condolences to our cherised Rabbi Emeritus, Martin Zion and his entire family on the loss of his beloved son Charles at the World Trade Center on September 11. The entire congregation mourns the tragedy that has struc
 Dr. Nguyen Ton Hoan, a Vietnamese who as a leader of the Dai Viet, or Greater Vietnam Party, opposed Communist rule in the north and French rule in the south and who in 1964 was briefly deputy premier in Maj. Gen. Nguyen Khanh's government, died on Sept. 19 at Mountainview, Calif., where he
 Jens Nygaard, the enterprising conductor who founded the Jupiter Symphony and built a devoted audience for it, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. Mei Ying, his companion, said the cause was complications from multiple myelomas, which are tumors of the bone marrow.  
 Maxwell H. Tretter, executive director of the New York City Housing Authority in the mid-1940's, died on Sunday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 95. Mr. Tretter, a lawyer, was counsel in charge of the authority's legal division from 1938 to 1941, assistant to its chairman from 
 ALGER - David. The Chapin School is deeply saddened by the loss of David Alger, an outstanding trustee and a true friend of the school. He served on the Board of Trustees with dedication and distinction and touched the lives of so many in the Chapin community. He will be sorely missed. Our 
 BROSNAN-James S. On September 24th, of cancer. Mr. Brosnan was a graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy, Yale University, attended the Harvard Law School and was a Captain in the U.S. Marine Corps and served in the Korean War. Mr. Brosnan's wide ranging intellect, wit and command of language a
 CORDOVANO-Frank, 84, of New York City. Died September 24. Beloved husband of Mary for 60 years. Loving father and father-inlaw to Felicia Cordovano, Larry and Mary Ann Caputo, Frank and Laura Cordovano. Proud grandfather to Alicia Cordovano, Larry, Frank and Christina Caputo and Julia Cordo
 FREIMAN-Brett O., 29. On September 11, 2001, a victim of the World Trade Center tragedy. Beloved son of Herbert Freiman and Bonnie Freiman. Cherished brother of Michael, Alison, Pamela and Adam Rentzer. Dear step son of Ellen Freiman and step brother of Michael, Peter and Jeffrey Malkin. Ad
 HANNAN-Michael L. Of Lynbrook, NY, age 34. Tragically at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Dedicated employee of Marsh & McLennan. Beloved husband of Andrea (nee LaMarche). Adored father of Rachel and Alexandra. A cherished son of Barbara and the late Lawrence Hannan. Special gr
 HERKNESS-Lindsay C., III. Of New York City. Age 58. Died September 11, 2001 in the attack on the World Trade Center. He was a Senior Vice President at Morgan Stanley. Survived by his brother, Wayne and dog, Gaston. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. Donations may be made 
 HERR-Stanley S. On September 24th, 2001. Husband of Raquel Schuster-Herr. Father of David L., Deborah A. and Ilana R. Herr. Beloved brother of Judith N. Herr. Funeral services and interment to be held in Baltimore, Maryland., on Tuesday, September 25, 2001. Contributions in his memory may b
 KADISON-Philip, of White Plains, NY died unexpectedly on September 22 in his sleep. A retired stockbroker of Adbest, Inc., he was a graduate of Harvard University, a member of The Hasty Pudding Club and a long standing member of The N.M.C. He was an accomplished pianist and composer, a lovi
 KASPER-Charles L. Deputy Chief, F.D.N.Y. Beloved husband of Laureen. Devoted father of Melissa and Mark Friedman, Kara Kasper and Michael. Adoring ''Granddaddy'' to Dylan Friedman. A 28 year veteran of the F.D.N.Y. Recently promoted to Deputy Chief. He reported in from his home the morning 
 KAUFMAN-Raymond, PhD., physicist. 84, on September 25, 2001. Loving and devoted husband of Jeanne. Cherished role model for his children Binny, Judy and Elliot, Adina of blessed memory and David. ''Papa'' to his grandchildren Rachel, Harris, Jenny and Suzanne. Dear brother, brother-inlaw an
 LARSON-Jerry Ole. On September 20, 2001, age 64, of Palm Beach, FL and Owings Mills, MD. Longtime resident of New York City. Retired account executive for TV Guide. He is survived by his best friend Marilyn Meyerhoff, two sons Graham Larson of Santa Monica, CA and Corbin Larson of New York 
 LEVIN-Neil D. Our uncle, our friend. We honor, respect and love you. The pain in our hearts is overwhelming. Adam and Kimmy Levin LEVIN-Neil D. With deep sorrow, the Wexner Heritage Foundation mourns the untimely death of its alumnus Neil D. Levin, who lost his life in the vicious a
 LEVINE-Robert M. (Bob). September 11, 2001, age 66, World Trade Center Tower Two, 78th Floor. Taken from his wife, Roberta, mother Rose, children Debra and Jeremy, sister and brother-inlaw Carole and Alan Becker, niece Amy Siegel and hundreds of loving friends and associates. A memorial ser
 LEWIS-Murray. Age 93. Formerly of NYC. Died September 22, 2001 Lifelong educator in NYC schools. Humanitarian and fighter for peace, for justice, and for a healthy environment. Conqueror of cancer and McCarthyism. Retired in 1973 and moved to Lenox in 1998. Survived by his wife of 71 years:
 LOWE-Frank of Ventura, CA, formerly of Forest Hills, NY, on September 21 after a short illness. Beloved husband of Eva, devoted father of Robert and father-in-law of Sylvia. Proud grandfather of Jeremy and Danielle. He will be missed.       
 LYNCH-Richard Dennis. 30. With Euro Brokers, on the 84th Floor of 2 World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Christina (nee Mackell) and father of Olivia Anne, 15 months. Devoted son of Dick and Ros Lynch. Dear brother of Jennifer, Nancy Lord, Rosalie Nester, Cynthia and
 MALONEY - Edward ''Teddy'' Francis III, 32, of Darien, a former Greenwich resident, died Tuesday, September 11, during the attacks at the World Trade Center, where he was an account manager for the Cantor Fitzgerald subsidiary TradeSpark. Born October 11, 1968, in Berlin, Germany, he was th
 PATERSON-Steven B., 40, in the terrorist attack of September 11, 2001, on the World Trade Center. Resident of Ridgewood, N.J., and devoted son of the late George and Kathryn Paterson of Hazlet, N.J. Cherished beyond measure by his family: his adored wife, Lisa, and four-year-old twins, Lucy
 RODRIGUES PEREIRA-Reverend Dr. Martin M. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 RUDIN-Lewis. The staff and trustees of The Parrish Art Museum are deeply saddened by the passing of Lewis Rudin, a dedicated philanthropist whose interests and reach were broad and deep. His steadfast and long standing support in education and community service has benefited so many institu
 SADDLER-Joe (Sandy), enjoyed a thirteen year professional boxing career consisting of 162 fights, culminating with winning and the holding of the Featherweight Championship of the World for nine years. In the second year of his career, 1945, determination and resilience led Sandy Saddler to
 SAGURTON-James R., Sr. ''Doc'' Age 88. Of Mendham Township NJ. On September 23, 2001. Husband of Wilma (nee Lewis). Father of Dr. James R., Jr. of Mendham Township, Dr. Joan of Hopewell Junction NY, Frances Seigle of Gilford NH and David of Long Pond PA. Brother of Catherine of Brick NJ. Al
 SANDLER-Herman, 57. Loving husband of Suki, devoted father of Pamela, Gillian and Jordana, role model and mentor to hundreds of young people. You encouraged us to take risks and gave us innumerable opportunities to follow our dreams, cheering us on as we learned to impact the world as you d
 SCANDOLE-Robert Louis (Rob). Age 36. On September 11, 2001. Adoring husband of Sheila (nee O'Grady). Greatest dad of Emma and Katie. Dear son of Robert and Peggy Scandole. Wonderful brother of Chris. Cherished grandson of Patrick Madden. Also survived and adored by uncles, aunts, nieces. ne
 SEKZER-Jason. The members and staff of Camp Sussex deeply mourn this tragic and senseless loss resulting from the brutal attack on the World Trade Center. Jason was a good friend who gave many years to our organization as a staff and board member and helped thousands of disadvantaged childr
 STERN-Isaac. 81, violinist, died on Saturday, September 22 in New York City. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, friend and mentor. Above all, he was a musician, with a legacy that left an indelible mark on generations of audiences worldwide. Devoted lover of Israel, champ
 STEWART-Richard H., 35, is missing from the World Trade Center disaster. A bond trader with Cantor Fitzgerald, he formerly worked at Lehman Brothers. A memorial service to celebrate his life will be held Friday, September 28, 11 A.M. at The Lawrenceville School chapel. In his memory, an Ice
 TRAUM-Jerome S. The attorneys and staff of Moses & Singer LLP mourn the passing of Jerome S. Traum and extend our deepest condolences to his family.       
 TUCKER-Michael Patrick. On September 11th, 40, of Rumson, NJ was taken from his family too soon in a senseless act that changed our lives forever. He started his career in a basement of a bank to become, 12 years later, a Sr. V.P., a Partner and one of the top traders at Cantor Fitzgerald. 
 WALD-Victor. The Solomon Schechter HS of NY mourns the loss of the father of one of our students. Victor was a warm and caring man, a scholar in history, and a devoted father and husband. He is survived by his beloved wife and children. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion
 YEO-Kiat Huat, age 50, of Red Bank, New Jersey, died last night at Riverview Medical Center. Dr. Yeo was born in Malaysia and came to the USA to pursue his medical studies. He completed his undergraduate studies at Columbia Union College and the University of Maryland at Baltimore. Dr. Yeo 
 CLARKE-Christopher ''Buddha'' Mass to celebrate his life Friday, September 28, 12 noon, St. Thomas of Villanova Parish Church, University Campus, Villanova, PA. Donations: Christopher Robert Clarke Scholarship Fund, St. Joe's Prep School, 1733 Girard Ave, Philadelphia, PA 19130.       
 Adm. Daniel Joseph Murphy, a retired Navy career officer who held positions in the Carter and Reagan administrations, died on Friday in a hospital in Rockville, Md. He was 79 and lived in Potomac, Md. The cause was a stomach aneurysm, his family said. In 1976 and 1977, when 
 David Santiago, a community advocate who fought for black and Hispanic access to public housing projects in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in the 1980's and who more recently coordinated protests against the United States military presence in Vieques, died on Sept. 17 in Fairfax, Va., near his hom
 Fred V. Morrone, the superintendent of police and director of public safety for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died in the Sept. 11 collapse of the World Trade Center towers, where the agency had its headquarters, his family said. He was 63 and lived in Lakewood, N.J.       
 CIAFARDINI-Christopher. Died Tuesday, September 11, 2001 in the tragic destruction of the World Trade Center in New York City. He was 30 years old and a Vice President, Financial Analyst at Fred Alger Management, Inc. He joined Fred Alger Management, located on the 93rd floor of World Trade
 CLEARY-Kevin. The Fordham Law School community records with profound sorrow the tragic loss in the World Trade Center of Kevin Cleary, Class of 1991. Love of life and family were the marks of his character. We extend our deep sympathy to his family. John D. Feerick, Dean       
 DARCY-Dwight Donald. Age 55, Senior Attorney at the Port Authority of NY and NJ, died on September 11, in the attack on the WTC. Resided in Bronxville, NY with his beloved wife Veronica and sons Kieran and Ryan. Also survived by his sister Joan D. Sorgi of Darien, CT; his brother Keith T. D
 GELLER-Steven. Beloved husband of Debra. Loving father of Hali. Son-in-law of Suzanne and Irving Karpas. Brother of Toby Landau and Martin Geller. Steven was lost in the World Trade Center tragedy on September 11, 2001. He celebrated life and adored his family. A memorial service will be he
 HERKNESS-Lindsay C., III. Of New York City. Age 58. Died September 11, 2001 in the attack on the World Trade Center. He was a Senior Vice President at Morgan Stanley. Survived by his brother, Wayne and dog, Gaston. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. Donations may be made 
 JURGENSEN-Rev. John W. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired parochial vicar of St. Benedict Joseph Labre Church, 94-40 118 St, Richmond Hill, on September 25. Reposing in Lehy-MacDonald Funeral Home, 111-02 Atlantic Avenue, Richmond Hill, Thursday, September 27 from 2-
 LAMBO-Nicholas William, 81, of Secaucus, NJ, and Palm Beach, FL, passed away peacefully on September 25, at Englewood Hospital. Cherished husband of Mary Lambo; loving father of Mark and his wife Lisa, Linda and her husband David Shasho; proud grandfather of Jarrett and Parker Lambo; brothe
 LARSON-Jerry Ole. On September 20, 2001, age 64, of Palm Beach, FL and Owings Mills, MD. Longtime resident of New York City. Retired account executive for TV Guide. He is survived by his best friend Marilyn Meyerhoff, two sons Graham Larson of Santa Monica, CA and Corbin Larson of New York 
 McDOWELL-John F., Jr. Age 33 of Manhattan was tragically lost on September 11, 2001 in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. John was a vice president in equities at Sandler O'Neill & Partners. He was the beloved son of John F., Sr. & Patricia. Brother of Megan and fiance of Bebe 
 McQUILLING-Thomas Merrick, 79. Resident of Manhasset, NY. Died on Sept. 23, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Daly McQuilling. Loving father of Lorrie Gordon, Leslie McQuilling, T. Merrick McQuilling II, Ann Denihan & Patricia Spellman. Fatherin-law of Catherine McQuilling, Harold 
 MORAN-John. The Fordham Law School community records with profound sorrow the tragic loss in the World Trade Center of John Moran, Class of 1991, FDNY. He was a gentle man and a scholar with a wonderful smile. We extend our deep sympathy to his wife, children and family. John D. Feerick, De
 NOLAND - Aaron, 81. Distin guished Professor Emeritus of History at CUNY. Charismatic teacher and author of The Founding of the French Socialist Party and many articles. He is survived by his cherished daughter, Carrie, his beloved grandchildren, Julian and Francesca, his devoted nephew Jon
 PARKINSON-Ellott F. On September 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Lee Ward Parkinson. Devoted father of Ann Eraugey of England. Loving brother of John and Doris of England. Stepfather of Dr. Richard Ward and Dr. Kenneth Ward. Cherished grandfather and stepgrandfather. He was a British citizen w
 RUDIN-Lewis. Another pillar of our community is gone, but has left his mark forever. Friend and colleague in many endeavors, he was always ready to help a worthy cause. Our deepest sympathy to his family. The Weiler and Arnow Families RUDIN-Lewis. The New-York Historical Society sal
 SINGER-Stephen L. Beloved husband of Linda, father of Juliette and Ian, Stuart and Sally, and Lauren and Steve. Grandfather to Kyle, Tyler, Samantha, Will, Spencer and Scott. Passed away on September 25, 2001 after a courageous bout with cancer. A native of New Rochelle NY, Mr. Singer gradu
 SINTON-Thomas E. III. A senior vice president for Cantor Fitzgerald, died September 11th at the World Trade Center. He was 41 years old and lived in Croton-onHudson, NY. Tom was born July 23, 1960. He previously resided in Upper Saddle River, NJ, and HoHo-Kus, NJ. He is survived by his wife
 STERN-Isaac. With profound sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the passing of our great friend, musician, humanitarian and national treasure, Isaac Stern. During his more than 60 years on the world's concert stages he was an inspiration to aud
 TURKEL-Robert. ''Bob'' ''Bobbie'', heroic, optimistic always, brave, caring, kind, loving and sweet. All these and more are descriptions of our son, who passed away in his sleep Sunday night fighting Cancer. He thought he would win. He didn't. Family receiving at home Thursday evening 7:30 
 ZEPLIN-Marc Scott. Age 33. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our son-in-law, Marc Zeplin. Beloved husband of Debra and devoted father to Ryan (3) and Ethan (9 months), Marc is also survived by his loving parents, Leonard and Leona; sister, Joslin; and many relatives and friends. Marc wa
 CLARKE-Christopher ''Buddha'' Mass to celebrate his life Friday, September 28, 12 noon, St. Thomas of Villanova Parish Church, University Campus, Villanova, PA. Donations: Christopher Robert Clarke Scholarship Fund, St. Joe's Prep School, 1733 Girard Ave, Philadelphia, PA 19130.       
 Charles Frederick Cannell, an expert on scientific surveys whose studies widely influenced how survey interviews are conducted, died on Sept. 18 in an automobile accident in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 88 and lived in Ann Arbor. Dr. Cannell (pronounced CAN-ell) retired in 1984 as a prof
 BRENNAN-Peter. On September 11, 2001, in his 30th year. New York City Firefighter of Rescue 4, lost his life tragically in the line of duty while trying to help others at the World Trade Center disaster. He is survived by many loving family members and friends. Gathering of family and frien
 DARCY-Dwight Donald. Age 55, Senior Attorney at the Port Authority of NY and NJ, died on September 11, in the attack on the WTC. Resided in Bronxville, NY with his beloved wife Veronica and sons Kieran and Ryan. Also survived by his sister Joan D. Sorgi of Darien, CT; his brother Keith T. D
 FINN-James W. On September 26, 2001, native of County Mayo, Ireland. Retired employee of REA. Beloved husband of the late Mary Alice (nee Walsh). Loving father of James J. and his wife Phyllis and Maureen C. Sullivan. Cherished grandfather of Colleen and Sean McDonald, James and Andrea Finn
 FISHER-Bennett Lawson, 58, of Stamford, CT on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. He is survived by his wife of 32 years, Susan Huntington Fisher, their children, Louisa Huntington Fisher and James Bruen Fisher, his mother, Elsie Lawson Fisher, two brothers and four sisters. A sen
 FLEISHER-Bernard. Known as Bernie, of Greensboro, NC, died September 26, 2001. Funeral 2 PM, Friday, September 28, 2001, Beth David Synagogue. He leaves his wife Rhoda, daughters Nancy and her husband Craig, Sally and husband Robert, Amy and husband Ken, grandchildren Kimberly, Mark, Joseph
 FREIMAN-Brett O., 29. On September 11, 2001, a victim of the World Trade Center tragedy. Beloved son of Herbert Freiman and Bonnie Freiman. Cherished brother of Michael, Alison, Pamela and Adam Rentzer. Dear step son of Ellen Freiman and step brother of Michael, Peter and Jeffrey Malkin. Ad
 GELLER-Steven. Beloved husband of Debra. Loving father of Hali. Son-in-law of Suzanne and Irving Karpas. Brother of Toby Landau and Martin Geller. Steven was lost in the World Trade Center tragedy on September 11, 2001. He celebrated life and adored his family. A memorial service will be he
 GELLING-Howard G., Jr. Tragically on September 11, 2001 at the age of 28. Howard was a Managing Director at Sandler O'Neill and Partners, working on the 104th floor of Two World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Christine O'Reilly, devoted son of Howard, Sr. and Dorothy, loving brother of De
 HERKNESS-Lindsay C., III. Of New York City. Age 58. Died September 11, 2001 in the attack on the World Trade Center. He was a Senior Vice President at Morgan Stanley. Survived by his brother, Wayne and dog, Gaston. A memorial service will be held at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Ave on Oct
 INGHILTERRA - Louis Steven. Died September 11, 2001 in the attack on the World Trade Center. Louis was the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Fiduciary Trust Company. His office was on the 95th floor of Building 2 of the World Trade Center. Louis is survived by his wife Diane McGill
 JORDAN-Robert Thomas, 34, who brought joy to so many lives, is among the missing after the tragic attack on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Rob was the son of Robert O. Jordan of Weston, CT and Anne Stewart of Newport Beach, CA. He was employed by Cantor Fitzgerald where he wa
 KELLERMAN-Peter Rodney, 35. Of New York City and South Egremont, MA on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center tragedy. Partner of Cantor Fitzgerald. Husband and soulmate of Robi Meltzer Kellerman, devoted son to Joyce Gales and beloved son-inlaw to Jeri and Steven ''Papa'' Meltzer and
 LESNOW-Jay, M.D. 9/27/01 at 96 years of age. Predeceased by Bertha, his wife of almost 70 years, a grandson, Adam, brother Harry and sister Minerva Lesnow. Survived by daughter Judith and son-in-law Kal Noselson and two succeeding generations: Betsy, Michael, Katie and Max Hockstein and Sus
 LEVINE-Robert M. (Bob). September 11, 2001, age 66, World Trade Center Tower Two, 78th Floor. Taken from his wife, Roberta, mother Rose, children Debra and Jeremy, sister and brother-inlaw Carole and Alan Becker, niece Amy Siegel and hundreds of loving friends and associates. A memorial ser
 LIFSHITZ-David. Quietly passed away at 98, leaving Dora, his cherished wife of 69 years, his beloved children Marilyn and Bob, Esther and Seymour, Naomi and Stanley, eight adored grandchildren, and five beautiful great-grandchildren. He was a rugged individual who walked through life with a
 LINN-William J., Jr. 60, of Scarsdale, NY, on Sept 27, 2001. Beloved husband of Geraldine TummoloLinn. Beloved father of Frank and Margaret Tummolo. Loving son of Josephine (nee Hulley) and the late William J. Linn, Sr. Devoted grandfather of Gianna, Danielle, Frankie and Lisa Tummolo. Cher
 LUNDEN-Michael P. Died tragically in the senseless attack on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Michael is survived by his beloved wife Michelle Brooks Lunden and his nine-month old son Matthew J. Lunden. Other survivors include his mother Rosemary Ritt, his father Francis Gerard
 MAHON-Thomas A. In his 37th year, of East Norwich, N.Y.,tragically on September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Beth. Loving father of Shay Elizabeth. Devoted son of James and Bridget. Cherished brother of Gerald, James, Maureen and Gail. Dear son-inlaw of Ralph and Marilyn Wotruba. Adored unc
 PARKINSON-Ellott F. On September 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Lee Ward Parkinson. Devoted father of Ann Eraugey of England. Loving brother of John and Doris of England. Stepfather of Dr. Richard Ward and Dr. Kenneth Ward. Cherished grandfather and stepgrandfather. He was a British citizen w
 RUDIN-Lewis. It is with deep sorrow and loss the Board of Governors of the DeWitt Clinton Alumni Association acknowledges the passing of a most outstanding Alumnus. We extend our sympathy to the family. His life will serve as an example to all who attend DeWitt Clinton High School and his m
 SALAND-Morris. Of Merrick on September 26, 2001. Beloved husband of 65 years to Ruth. Devoted father of David and his wife Michelle, Richard and Fredric and his wife Corliss. Also survived by his grandchildren; Andrew and his wife Erinn, Joshua, Steven and Ariel. Graveside services Friday 3
 SHAPIRO-Jerry, 84. Former President, Shapiro & Son. Passed away September 23 at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. Survived by his beloved wife, Anita, daughters, Carolyn Bonheim and Eileen Mantell, and six grandchildren. Service September 30, 11am, Temple Sholom, Greenwich, CT. Contr
 SHEPPHIRD-Frederick Hahn of Fountain Valley, CA passed away peacefully on Wednesday, September 5. He left behind his grieving widow, Mary Janet, who loved and adored him; a brother, John Reynolds Shepphird of Newport Beach, CA and many children and grandchildren. He was the beloved father o
 SINGER-Stephen L. Beloved husband of Linda, father of Juliette and Ian, Stuart and Sally, and Lauren and Steve. Grandfather to Kyle, Tyler, Samantha, Will, Spencer and Scott. Passed away on September 25, 2001 after a courageous bout with cancer. A native of New Rochelle NY, Mr. Singer gradu
 STERN-Isaac. We mourn the passing of a great musician and good friend. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Linda, and his family. David Foster Lee Lamont, Byron Gustafson and the Staff of ICM Artists, Ltd STERN-Isaac. To the Stern family with heartfelt empathy. The world is
 TRAVIS-Arthur R. 86, of Guttenberg, NJ, died September 24. He served as a US Army Lieutenant, receiving the highest noncombat award. In business, he was respected for his integrity, serving as president of Sacony and Helen Harper. He will be remembered for his warmth, optimism and sensitivi
 TURKEL-Robert. ''Bob'' ''Bobbie'', heroic, optimistic always, brave, caring, kind, loving and sweet. All these and more are descriptions of our son, who passed away in his sleep Sunday night fighting Cancer. He thought he would win. He didn't. Family receiving at home Thursday evening 7:30 
 Stanley S. Herr, a lawyer whose career of crusades for the mentally  disabled altered the legal landscape from schools to death rows, died on Monday at his home in Baltimore. He was 56. His wife, Raquel Schuster-Herr, said the cause was adrenal carcinoma, a very rare cancer.        
 A. Joseph Debe, who had worked for more than two decades to create a stock derivative that became popular in the late 1980's, died at his home in Garden City, N.Y., on Sunday. He was 73. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter Gina O'Sullivan said. Born in Italy on Nov. 16, 
 Clark T. Rogerson, whose fascination with the microscopic world of fungi brought tens of thousands of specimens to the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, died on Sept. 7 in Ogden, Utah, where he moved after he retired. He was 82. Dr. Rogerson, an international authority on fung
 Evan A. Lottman, a film editor whose work was nominated for an Academy Award, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his wife, Eileen. Born in the Bronx, Mr. Lottman began his career in the 1960's, editing television docume
 Ezra Ehrenkrantz, a versatile architect, died on Sept. 22 at his home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 69. He had cancer, his firm said in announcing his death. When he died, he was a partner in Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn Architects, at 23 East Fourth Street in Manhattan. Ill hea
 BLOOMGARDEN - Bertram H. Age 87. On Yom Kippur, Thursday, September 27, 2001. Beloved husband, for over 50 years, of the late Clara (Belenky). Survived by his dear wife Ruth (Solomon) and her children. Loving and caring father of David and Lucette Bloomgarden, Judith Bloomgarden and William
 CAHN-Stephen M. Age 61, of Worcester, MA, native of NYC, an attorney specializing in juvenile law; beloved husband of Dr. Marjorie (Eckmann) Cahn; devoted father of Amy Laura Cahn of Brooklyn and Patrick Cahn of Northampton, MA; devoted son of William M. Cahn, Jr. and Margaret (Millhauser) 
 EIGER-Nathan on September 27, 2001. Survived by his wife Gertrude, son Arnold, sister Esther Kessler, grandchildren Mark Eiger and Dina Hunt and 4 great-grandchildren. Services 10am, Sunday at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt.4 East, Paramus, NJ.       
 FISHER-Bennett Lawson, 58, of Stamford, CT on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. He is survived by his wife of 32 years, Susan Huntington Fisher, their children, Louisa Huntington Fisher and James Bruen Fisher, his mother, Elsie Lawson Fisher, two brothers and four sisters. A sen
 FRENKEL-Peter J. The partners and personnel of Fawn Associates and its affiliates mourn the passing of our partner and friend, Peter Frenkel. His warm and generous demeanor coupled with his sense of humor were key elements of our partnership mix for over four decades. He will be remembered 
 GOLUB-Leo J., D.D.S. Age 79. Beloved husband (Audrey, Stonington, CT.), father (Mark and David, Stamford, CT.), grandfather of thirteen. Died Wednesday September 26, 2001 of natural causes. B.A., D.D.S. (Columbia University). Spirited intellectual and passionate advocate for liberal causes.
 KATZ-Seymour. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns his loss and extends deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Joel Y. Zion, Rabbi Dr. Robert L. Lehman Rabbinic Associate Joel Gerstel, President       
 PARKINSON-Ellott F. On September 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Lee Ward Parkinson. Devoted father of Ann Eraugey of England. Loving brother of John and Doris of England. Stepfather of Dr. Richard Ward and Dr. Kenneth Ward. Cherished grandfather and stepgrandfather. He was a British citizen w
 SINGER-Stephen L. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our friend, Stephen L. Singer. We will miss his spirit and presence on our tennis courts. We extend our sincere and heartfelt sympathy to the family. Beth Z. Post, Presi
 STIGALL-William Jasper, Jr. Of Scarborough, New York, died September 14, after a short illness. Death came soon after his 90th birthday and publication of his World War II memoir, ''A Shower of Frogs''. Born in Chicago, Mr. Stigall graduated from the University of Illinois and Goodman Schoo
 ALGER-David Dewey. Was tragically lost on 11 September 2001, at the World Trade Center. A Memorial Service to celebrate his remarkable life will be held at Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street in Manhattan, on Friday, 5 October 2001, at 11 a.m. In lieu of flowers, the family re
 ARANYOS-Patrick Michael, age 26, of N.Y.C., formerly of Jupiter, Florida and Amersham, England, died tragically on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. He was a bond broker for Euro Brokers. Beloved son of Alexander P. and Winifred O'Reilly Aranyos. Dearly loved brother of Alex and
 BERKELEY-Graham. In loving memory of Graham, beloved son of Charles and Pauline Berkeley of Shrewsbury, Shropshire, England, graduate of the Royal College of Music, London and at his untimely death, Director E-Commerce Solutions, Compuware Corporation, USA. Graham Berkeley, 37, was a reside
 BLOOMGARDEN - Bertram H. Age 87. On Yom Kippur, Thursday, September 27, 2001. Beloved husband, for over 50 years, of the late Clara (Belenky). Survived by his dear wife Ruth (Solomon) and her children. Loving and caring father of David and Lucette Bloomgarden, Judith Bloomgarden and William
 CROWN-Joseph H. A man of great strength, rich talents and devotion to family died at age 93, surrounded by his family, shortly after Yom Kippur in Cuernavaca. His professional career was marked by his passion and dedication to justice and civil liberties, from which he was never deterred by
 DELZIO-Frank John. September 26, 2001, age 75. Beloved husband of Mary. Father of Frank, Mary, Paul, Stephen and the late Lawrence. Grandpere of Samantha, Andrew, Sarah and Heather. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Sunday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass at St. 
 EIGER-Nathan on September 27, 2001. Survived by his wife Gertrude, son Arnold, sister Esther Kessler, grandchildren Mark Eiger and Dina Hunt and 4 great-grandchildren. Services 10am, Sunday at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt.4 East, Paramus, NJ. EIGER-Nathan. We mourn the l
 FANELLI-Dolores. It is with deep sadness that the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of the hospital's parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging the untimely passing of Dolores Fanelli, beloved daughter of our dear friend and devoted colleag
 FRENKEL-PETER. The people of PACE Advertising Agency, are saddened by the passing of our dear friend, associate and partner of over 50 years. Peter's contribution to our success is inestimable. His clients, and we at PACE, trusted and loved him. Although he retired in 1986, his lessons and 
 GELLING-Howard G., Jr. Tragically on September 11, 2001 at the age of 28. Howard was a Managing Director at Sandler O'Neill and Partners, working on the 104th floor of Two World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Christine O'Reilly, devoted son of Howard, Sr. and Dorothy, loving brother of De
 GIAMMONA-Vincent F. Lieutenant, FDNY, with Ladder 5, died in the line of duty on September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center disaster. Beloved husband of Theresa (nee Varvaro). Loving father of Francesca, Toni-Ann, Nicolette and Daniella. Dear son of Capt. Vincent (retired FDNY) and Dorot
 GILMORE-George Gordon. Formerly of Irvington, NY, died Monday, September 24, 2001, at Wesley Health Care Center in Saratoga Springs. He was 87. Born June 28, 1914, in NYC, he was the son of the late George and Freda (Hirt) Gilmore. A graduate of George Washington High School in NYC, Mr. Gil
 GRUBER-Allen L. Beloved husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Neal Gruber and Enid Gruber-Anderson. Cherished grandfather of Jared Joseph and Oren Louis Gruber, and Dane Elliot Anderson. Loving brother of Elaine Seligman. Services Monday, 10 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North S
 HERKNESS-Lindsay C., III. Of New York City. Age 58. Died September 11, 2001 in the attack on the World Trade Center. He was a Senior Vice President at Morgan Stanley. Survived by his brother, Wayne and dog, Gaston. A memorial service will be held at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Ave on Oct
 HIMELFARB-Robert A. 80 years old, died after a long illness on September 29, 2001. He leaves his loving wife Frances, and beloved son and daughter-in-law David and Tali, and his cherished grandchildren Maya and Jake. Services Sunday, 12:30 PM, at ''RiversideNassau North Chapels,'' 55 North 
 HOHLWECK-Thomas W., Jr. 57, on September 11, 2001. A victim of the World Trade Center tragedy. Loving husband of Pam, devoted father of Todd, Robin and Randy. Beloved son of Edith. Dear brother of Mary. A memorial service will be held in his honor on Monday, October 1, 10:30 AM, at All Sain
 HORAN-Harold A. Age 91. Of Woodbury, CT formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Died Sunday, September 23, 2001. He was the husband of the late Helen M. Horan for 67 years. Born March 27, 1910. Son of Henry F. and Marion E. Horan. Beloved father of Robert A. of Woodbury, CT. and Richard A. of Indianapoli
 HORD-Montgomery McCullough ''Monte'' 46, of Pelham, New York, a Vice President and Partner of Cantor Fitzgerald, died at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Born in Grand Island Nebraska on August 24, 1955 to the late Thomas and Gloria Hord, he grew up in Central City, Nebraska an
 JAFFE-Eli, 88. Writer, public relations director, peace activist, beloved husband, father, and friend. His last speech (September 16, 2001) concluded: ''I have dedicated my life to fighting the war-makers in my own country, to make sure ours could truly be: America the beautiful.'' Survived
 KELLERMAN-Peter Rodney, 35. Of New York City and South Egremont, MA on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center tragedy. Partner of Cantor Fitzgerald. Husband and soulmate of Robi Meltzer Kellerman, devoted son to Joyce Gales and beloved son-inlaw to Jeri and Steven ''Papa'' Meltzer and
 MONTANO-Craig D., of Glen Ridge, NJ, was among those lost in the tragedy at the World Trade Center September 11, 2001. Craig was a government agency securities broker at Cantor Fitzgerald. He was born on October 27, 1962, and grew up in Valley Stream, NY. Craig graduated from Hewlett High S
 NOETH-Petty Officer Michael Allen, USN. July 7, 1971 to September 11, 2001. My son. I thank God for the time he loaned you to me to love, to take pride in, to stand in awe of. Your artistic legacy will long light the world. You found the secret. You left us wanting more. With ever-growing l
 REILLY-Timothy E. A victim of the World Trade Center tragedy, 40, of Brooklyn, NY, formerly of Larchmont, NY, died September 11, 2001. Tim was born on October 5, 1960 in Bronxville, NY to Charles J. Reilly and Claire Hughes Reilly. He attended Holy Family Grammar School and Iona Prepartory 
 SIMON-Alan M. 69, died at his home in Manhattan on September 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Toni Lautman Simon. Loving father of Andrew and Leslie Simon and father-in-law of Nancy Simon and Marc Bender. Devoted grandfather of Allison and Samantha Simon and Arlo and Philip Bender Simon. In lie
 STERN-Isaac. Isaac Stern leaves a legacy of friendship. We will always cherish his vivacious spirit, lust for life and joy for every minute of the day. It was infectious and we will remember him and treasure our moments with him always. Our hearts and deepest sympathies go out to Linda and 
 WALL-Glen James, 38. Of Rumson, NJ. Glen was lost on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center disaster. He was a Partner and Senior Vice President at the Wall Street trading firm of Cantor Fitzgerald, New York, NY. He headed the Collateralized Mortgage Obligation Desk. Glen was formerly
 WATTS-Charles Henry II. September 27, 2001; Freedom, NH. Charles H. Watts II of Freedom, New Hampshire and Boston, Massachusetts, died unexpectedly of a heart attack yesterday at his farm in New Hampshire. He was the beloved husband of Patricia McQuillen Watts. Born in 1926 in Bronxville, N
 WEISS-David Martin. FDNY Firefighter David Martin Weiss, 41, of Maybrook, NY, was declared missing on September 11, 2001. Born and raised in Freeport, NY, he joined the Freeport Volunteer Fire Department in 1978 and the Iron Workers Local 580 in New York City. He was appointed to FDNY in 19
 GLASSER-Thomas. Age 40 of Summit, New Jersey lost tragically in the terrorist attack at the World Trade Center, September 11, 2001. Loving husband of Meg, devoted father of Dylan and Lukas. Adored son of Dr. Gerald J. Glasser and Anne Glasser, both of Westfield, New Jersey. Brother of Margi
