 Gilbert Barclay Mustin, who led the Fleer Corporation, creators of Dubble Bubble gum, in successfully challenging the dominance of Topps Chewing Gum Inc. in the multimillion dollar baseball card business, died Wednesday at a hospital in Bryn Mawr, Penn. He was 78 years old and lived in Have
 Dr. Harrison Holt Richardson, the youngest member of the team that spent the winter with Adm. Richard E. Byrd on his third mission to Antarctica, died on July 17 at a son's home in Claiborne, Md. He was 80 and lived in Beaver, Pa. Dr. Richardson carried a 16-millimeter movie camera 
 BUSCH-Paul L., Dr. The passing of Dr. Paul L. Busch, our friend, advisor and fellow trustee leaves us with sorrow, a deep sense of loss, and sympathy for his family. The Fund will ever be strengthened by his past service, and miss his wisdom, commitment and personal warmth. David Dibner, Pr
 GREISMAN-Bernard age 82, of Fort Lee, N.J. Survived by his devoted wife Ruth of 58 years, cherished children Stewart, Cheryl and Andrew Konstandt; and adored Poppy of Matthew, Brad, Courtney and Sami. Services are 12:30 P.M. Sunday Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel W-150 Rt. #       
 HOMER-Louis L. The Board of Governors and members of Cold Spring Country Club deeply mourn the recent passing of our past President and longtime member. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Helen and the entire family.       
 LASSAR-Benedict T. Dr. Benedict T. Lassar, 93, died peacefully in Puebla, Mexico on July 26. Born in New York, he was a scholar, a lawyer, teacher and psychologist. Beloved husband to the late Dr. Edna Kramer, uncle to three generations, he was devoted to his family and loyal to his friends
 LODES-Frederick G., born August 15, 1916, deceased July 28, 1999. Graduate of Fordham University. Master of Chemistry Columbia University. Youngest of 9 children. Co-founder of Precision Valve, Yonkers, NY. Co-owner of The Water Wheel Inn, Ardsley, NY. Lifetime member of Knollwood Country C
 LOPATIN-Harry. The family of Harry Lopatin grieves at his passing on Friday, July 30, 1999, after a long illness. He will be remembered by his beloved family and his friends in The International Ladies Garment Workers Union, The Workmen's Circle, The Jewish Daily Forward and the echelons of
 LYNN-Victor M. On July 28, 1999. Beloved husband of Raquelle, father of Nicholas and Giannina. His extended family included daughters Barbara and Wendy, and sons-in-law Gary and Chris and grandchildren Lauren, David and Jenny. He had a productive and successful career as an account executiv
 MICHAELIS-Lillian. The Officers, Directors and Administration of the Gurwin Jewish-Fay J. Lindner Residences extend their sympathy to Seymour Rubin, fellow board member, on the loss of his beloved sister, Lillian. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Martin Eglow, President Josep
 PFEFFER-Robert Benjamin, Dr. Clinical Professor of Surgery at New York University School of Medicine, and former President of the Medical Board and Chief of Surgery at Beth Israel Medical Center North, died Friday at Tisch Hospital of the New York University Medical Center. An open memorial
 SCHLACTER - Arthur Bernard. Age 78. On July 30, 1999. Of Boca Raton, FL. Previously of Forest Hills, N.Y. Beloved husband of Regina. Loving father of Arlene Morelli and Jeffrey Saks. Dear father-in-law of Benedict Morelli & Rita Saks. Devoted grandfather of Justin and Alexander Morelli and 
 SHEIN-Joseph, M.D. The Department of Pediatrics at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset sadly acknowledges the death of one of its senior pediatricians, Joseph Shein, M.D. Dr. Shein passed away July 15, 1999 at the age of 83. Dr. Shein received his medical degree from Witwatersand U
 COHEN-Jack. August 1, 1919-August 21, 1983. Remembering him on his 80th birthday and always. His Loving Family.       
 Bertram E. Smythies, a versatile British naturalist who wrote about birds and trees in southeast Asia and flowers in southwestern Europe, died on Tuesday in the county of Kent in England. Mr. Smythies, 86, had settled in Estepona in the south of Spain in the mid-1960's. Mr. Smythies
 GRAMA-Haroon (Harry) A. Born July 4, 1930, succumbed to illness on Saturday, July 31, 1999, at UCLA Hospital, Los Angeles, CA. A long time resident of Beverly Hills, CA, and more recently Las Vegas, Harry Grama had provided highly valued interior furnishings for homes of many renowned perso
 O'MALLEY-Coleman C. On July 29th, 1999. Survived by his wife Marilyn, his sister Madeleine, many beloved nieces & nephews and Sarah. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Southold Animal Shelter, POB 297, Southold, N.Y. 11971 and/or to the attention of A. Cameron, M.D., Cardiology,
 SCHLACTER - Arthur Bernard. Age 78. On July 30, 1999. Of Boca Raton, FL. Previously of Forest Hills, N.Y. Beloved husband of Regina. Loving father of Arlene Morelli and Jeffrey Saks. Dear father-in-law of Benedict Morelli & Rita Saks. Devoted grandfather of Justin and Alexander Morelli and 
 SHAPIRO-Murray. August 1, 81 years. Beloved husband of Caryl (nee Berzin), devoted father of Stuart, Laurence and Ronald. Past Master National Lodge, F & A.M. He was a kind, generous and loving man who faced adversity with courage and determination. Sinai Chapel, Tuesday, 10:15 AM.       
 UHLAND-Werner. The Meltzer family and the employees of Triangle Building Products Corp. deeply regret the passing of an old friend and former associate. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Jean and the rest of his family and friends. He was a man of distinction and integrity w
 RAPP-Sidney Alan, M.D. April 17, 1950-August 2, 1991. To know him was-to love him. Sidney, your spirit guides me everyday. Amy       
 Samuel Rodger Callaway, a retired executive vice president and chief trust officer of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, died July 24 at Danbury Hospital. A former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., he was 85 and lived in Southbury, Conn. Mr. Callaway was in charge of
 Nirad C. Chaudhuri, whose first book in English, ''The Autobiography of an Unknown Indian,'' was written when he was 53 and thought his life would soon end, died on Sunday at  101. In the five decades of grace he received after completing the autobiography, he saw it acclaimed as a classic 
 BURCKHARDT-Rudy. We are deeply saddened by the death of gallery artist and dear friend Rudy Burckhardt. An extraordinarily gifted photographer, painter and filmmaker, Rudy was admired and beloved by a community of artists & writers of all generations. A gentle man of great dignity, vitality
 BURGER-Aaron. Died August 1 at age 87 in Lenox, Mass. Beloved husband of the late Vera Burger for more than 50 years. Loving father of Harold Burger, Ph.D., M.D. and father-in-law of Barbara Weiser, M.D. Devoted grandfather of Genevieve and Isabelle BurgerWeiser, Uncle of JoAnn KolmesFath, 
 GAWTHROP-Robert S., The Honorable. On August 1st, 1999, of Philadelphia. Son of Robert S. Gawthrop, Jr. & the late Elizabeth H. (Campbell) & stepson of Janet (Borden) Gawthrop; brother of Elizabeth Gawthrop Riely and Emily Gawthrop Klarberg. Also survived by one niece and three nephews. Rel
 GOLDBERGER-Irving, 88. Of Sarasota, Florida, formerly of New Rochelle, died on August 1, 1999 in Harrisburg, PA. He was retired president of Kate Greenaway Frocks, New York. Loving father of Lynn Zeitlin, Neil, Roger, and Peter; beloved grandfather of eight and great-grandfather of four. Gr
 LEVINE-Irving. Age 84. Died on August 1, 1999, Albuquerque, N.M. Bronx born, architect & professor at Pratt. During World War II he drove a truck over the Burma Road and edited two Army newspapers. He felt his greatest accomplishment, in addition to his marriage and children, was his writin
 LEWIS-DeWitt C. Beloved husband of Joan. Retiree of Wien & Malkin. Services private. Contributions in his memory to Alzheimer's Association, Fairfield County Chapter, 607 Main Ave., Norwalk, CT. 06851.       
 LINKER - Robert. Of Delray Beach, Florida. Beloved father of Ellen and Joni. Devoted grandfather of Yanni, Alec, Peter and Bruce. Loving brother of Alice. Services private. Call RiversideNassau North Chapels for further information 516-487-9600. LINKER-Robert. Temple Beth Sholom of 
 LOTH-Clifford Bernard. In his 95th year, beloved husband of the late Sally Renner Loth, devoted father of Louis Renner Loth and Suzanne Loth Oliver, loving grandfather of Shereen, Traci and Marni Loth and Brian and David Zeiden. Always proud that he was among the founding families of Reform
 McNULTY-Susan. The partners of Herrick, Feinstein LLP extend their deepest sympathy and condolences to our dear friend Daniel McNulty on the sudden and unexpected death of his beloved wife, Susan. Dan, we are at a loss for words but want you to know that we deeply feel your shock and pain. 
 MILLER-David Z. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its devoted member Dr. Alan Miller. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 NEIGEBORN-Sam. Died August 1, 1999 at 85. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Adoring father of Lenore, Amy, Beth, and Burt Neuborne. Father-in-law of Scott Brustein, Paul O'Halloran, Walter Angilly and Helen Neuborne. Grandfather of Ellen and Lauren, Allyson and Greg, Hannah and Emily. Great grandf
 O'MALLEY-Coleman C. On July 29th, 1999. Survived by his wife Marilyn, his sister Madeleine, many beloved nieces & nephews and Sarah. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Southold Animal Shelter, POB 297, Southold, N.Y. 11971 and/or to the attention of A. Cameron, M.D., Cardiology,
 RICHARDSON-Donald, John. 66 years, died July 24, Salt Lake City, Utah. He was born in Syracuse, New York. Attended Duke University and Wharton Business School at University of Pennsylvania. He was a U.S. Marine Corp veteran and commanded an artilery battery. He was the owner of several busi
 SIMON-Dr. Bernard E. August 1, 1999, beloved husband of the late Bitten H. Simon, loving father of Cathy and her husband Michael Palmer & John Simon. Cherished grandfather of Sarah Palmer. A Memorial Service will be announced at a later date. Contributions in his memory may be made to The D
 TREIBER-Howard F. Of Old Brookville, NY and Colleton River Plantation, Hilton Head Island, SC on July 31, 1999. Chairman of The Treiber Insurance Group, one of the largest family owned insurance agencies in the country. Beloved husband of Hope. Loving father of John, Craig, Bruce, Peter, Sc
 WILLIAMS-Frederic Houston. 64, of East Hampton, NY and Vero Beach, FL, died Sunday, August 1 at home in East Hampton. Born in Detroit, MI, Mr. Williams was the son of the late Katherine Woodroofe Carre and the late Admiral Frederic Houston Williams. He was the husband of Gail Dillingham Wil
 Porfirio Delgado, a luthier whose guitars were used by several generations of classical, Latin and pop performers, died on Wednesday at his home in East Los Angeles. He was 85. Although he had retired and left his Candelas Guitars shop in the hands of two of his grandsons, Tomas and
 Willie Morris, the writer and editor whose life and work reveled in the endless contradictions of the South and the region's ghostlike hold on its native sons and daughters, died on Monday at St. Dominic Hospital in Jackson, Miss., at 64. The cause was heart failure, said a hospital
 BERGER-Leo V. We were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Leo V. Berger, a humanitarian who cared deeply for others. His support of both Long Island Jewish Medical Center and North Shore University Hospital was exemplary. Our sincerest condolences are extended to his family. Saul Kat
 BURCKHARDT-Rudy. We are deeply saddened by the death of gallery artist and dear friend Rudy Burckhardt. An extraordinarily gifted photographer, painter and filmmaker, Rudy was admired and beloved by a community of artists & writers of all generations. A gentle man of great dignity, vitality
 CIOFFI-Albert F., M.D. Beloved husband of Margaret M. Cioffi, M.D.; father to Vincent, Mary, Theresa, Peggy; and grandfather to Mitchell, Jeremiah, Michael, Savannah and Gabriel. Dr. Cioffi is also survived by his beloved sister, Marie. There will be a wake at Reddens Funeral Home in New Yo
 DAVIS-F. Kelso, 83. Of Boca Grande, FL and Essex, CT, died August 3 after a brief illness. Born on February 23, 1916, in Hartford, CT, he is survived by his wife, Joanne Manzani Davis and his five children: Jay Davis of Belfast, ME, Philip Davis of Westbrook, CT, Debbie Neely of Milton, MA,
 DuLONG-Raoul. The Chorus of The Metropolitan Opera is deeply saddened at the death of our friend and colleague. His voice was silenced too early. Visitation Redden Funeral Home, 325 West 14 Street, NYC Thursday, 7-9PM. Interment private. DuLONG-Raoul, 40, of New York City, died July
 FELDSTEIN-Morris, M.D. August 2, 1999. A great cousin & friend. He will be sorely missed. Abey Perlman & Mia FELDSTEIN-Morris, Dr. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartf
 GOLDBERG-Alexander. Beloved husband, father and grandfather, he will remain in our hearts forever. His greatness lives on. For information call Schwartz Brothers at 718-263-7600.       
 MATHEWS-Morris, Rabbi. We record with sorrow the passing of Rabbi Morris Mathews, beloved father of our members Dr. Ruth Katz and Mrs. Miriam Nathan. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Young Israel of Oceanside Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi Evan Torcz
 McVEIGH-Christopher R. Of Montclair, New Jersey, formerly of Somers, New York, died August 2 at Sloan-Kettering Memorial Hospital in New York City. Mr. McVeigh worked as VP of Marketing for Prudential Insurance Company in Newark, NJ for the past two years. Mr. McVeigh was born on August 24,
 MILLMAN-Irving. Died August 3, 1999 in Queens. Adored husband of the late Sylvia. Beloved father of Joan (and the late Edward), and of Richard. Cherished grandfather of Leslie (and Rob), Russell (and Terry), and Fred. Greatgrandfather of Sam and Danielle. Born in Russia, November 17, 1909. 
 PIKE-Laurence B. In Brattleboro, VT on August 2. Retired partner at Simpson, Thacher and Bartlett law firm. Longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY. Survived by his wife, Norma Eklund Pike, his daughter, Barbara Pike and his sons William, Jeffrey and Alan. Donations to the Leukemia Society of Am
 REGISTER-Albert Layton III. Of Edgartown, Mass., formerly of Rumson, NJ, on July 27, after a long illness. Survived by his wife Hope Register, sons Croft of Wayne, PA, Frederick of Phoenix, AZ, daughter Candace Langan of Jamestown, RI, & six grandchildren, sister Cornelia R. (Porter) Hoagla
 SCHRECK-Michael Henry, 98. Internationally recognized artist, died peacefully August 2nd in his home in Florida. His life was dedicated to his family and his art. He will be greatly missed. Mr. Schreck was a member of The Royal Society of Arts, London Accademia Italia, The American Federati
 SIMON-Bernard E., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our longstanding colleague, Clinical Professor of Surgery Emeritus, and former President of the A.A.S. Dr. Simon served the institution & its patients for more than sixty years an
 WILLIAMS-Frederic H. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of our distinguished and beloved Trustee Frederic H. Williams, who was a member of the Board of the School from 1992 until his death. Fred brought enormous energy, optimism and expertise to his various responsibilities as a B
 MECHANIC-Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''And until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand.'       
 Richard Olney, one of the first food writers to introduce the simple joys of French country cooking to American readers, was found dead yesterday at his home at Sollies-Toucas in Provence. He was 71. Kermit Lynch, a California wine merchant who spends part of the year in a house nea
 Rudy Burckhardt, whose 60-year career as an artist and a friend of artists connected several generations and esthetic factions of the New York School, drowned on Sunday in a pond near his home in Searsmont, Me. He was 85 and also had a home in Manhattan. The administrator of the off
 Abdul Wahab al-Bayati, an Iraqi poet who was a major innovator in his art form, died on Tuesday in Damascus, Syria. He was 73 and had lived in Damascus since leaving Amman, Jordan, earlier this year. The cause was a heart attack, reported The Associated Press, which  said that he wa
 Bernard E. Simon, the last of a group of American plastic surgeons who donated their services to help the ''Hiroshima Maidens,'' 25 disfigured and maimed survivors of the American bombing of Hiroshima, died on Aug. 1 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, where he had worked for more than 40
 Henry W. Sawyer 3d, who successfully argued two landmark Supreme Court cases that helped define today's boundaries between church and state, died on Saturday at a hospital in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, said a close friend and colleague, David
 BERGER-Leo V., Captain. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and Members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City acknowledge the passing of a devoted and generous friend. Through his longstanding friendship with our founder, Jack Hausman, Leo Berger became a staunch support
 CLARK-R. Inslee Jr. Of Riverdale, New York, died August 3, 1999 at Gaylord Hospital in Wallingford, Connecticut. Mr. Clark was undergraduate Dean of Admissions at Yale University from 1965 to 1970 where he admitted the first class of women in 1969 and initiated a ''need blind'' admission po
 DIELS-Gero, M.D. On July 30, 1999. Devoted and loving father of William, Christa and Josefina. A dedicated and invaluable physician for forty years in Manhattan at the V.A. Medical Center. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent in his memory to the American Cancer Society or The New York
 FELDSTEIN - Morris (Murray), M.D., formerly chief of Opthalmic Surgery and on the staff of Mt. Sinai Hospital, in New York City on August 2, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lucille Dee Rubin. Loving uncle of Marion Malakoff of Philadelphia; Fred and Joy Malakoff of Miami Beach, FL; Philip
 GOLDBERG-Alexander. Beloved husband, father and grandfather, he will remain in our hearts forever. His greatness lives on. For information call Schwartz Brothers at 718-263-7600.       
 HILLMAN-Bill. Leader, colleague, and friend, former President of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists and Chairman of the Trustees of the AFTRA Health & Retirement Funds. His vision and selfless dedication were instrumental in uniting both management and labor in creating
 KLEIN-Harold M. On August 3, 1999, in his eighty-fourth year. Beloved husband of Zara. Deeply cherished father of Jayne Klein; loving brother of Dorothy Rubenstein. Services Friday, August 6th, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 McVEIGH-Christopher R. Of Montclair, New Jersey, formerly of Somers, New York, died August 2 at Sloan-Kettering Memorial Hospital in New York City. Mr. McVeigh worked as VP of Marketing for Prudential Insurance Company in Newark, NJ for the past two years. Mr. McVeigh was born on August 24,
 PIKE-Laurence B. The Partners of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett are deeply saddened by the passing of their retired partner, Laurence B. Pike. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Norma, and to his entire family. The Partners of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett       
 REILLY-Joseph G. Of Shelter Island, N.Y., on August 3, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Lyons Reilly. Devoted father of Judith, Liza, Joe Jr., Jim, Chris and Gina. Cherished grandfather of ten. Loved by his nieces, nephews, cousins and many friends. Visiting hours 2-4 and 7-9 PM F
 SELIGSON-David J., Dr., died on August 3, 1999, of a brief illness in his native New York City. His discerning wisdom, love of God, and abiding faith in the beauty and goodness of human beings will be missed beyond measure. His intelligence, spirit and fortitude will inspire us and give us 
 TIMMERMAN-Robert E. Died July 29, 1999 at the Greenwich Hospital of Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Timmerman was a long-time resident of Greenwich, Conn., but also maintained homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Kennebunkport, Me. Mr. Timmerman was the son of the late Hearst Publisher Edward W. Timmerm
 Rabbi David J. Seligson, a nationally known Reform rabbi and an eloquent orator who held the pulpit at Central Synagogue in Manhattan for 20 years, died on Tuesday on the way to a hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and had lived for the last two years at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhat
 Mohammed Hadid, an Iraqi economist and cabinet minister who advocated democracy but was buffeted by his country's autocratic governments, died on Tuesday in London, where he moved in 1995. He was 92. He had an asthma attack, The Associated Press said. Mr. Hadid received a de
 CANTOR-Irving (Irv). On August 5, 1999 due to complications of pneumonia. He is survived by his devoted wife of 58 years, Frances; cherished daughter, Jane C. Nicholson; son-in-law Alan Seigenfeld and by his beloved grandson, A. Reid Nicholson of Los Angeles, CA. Friends may call at Frank E
 CAPONE-Louis R., age 85, a personal manager who discovered and managed Tony Bennett, Vic Damone, and Alan Dale, died on July 6th in Queens. He is survived by a wife, Eileen, a son, Arthur Nelson, a daughter, Helene, a brother, Joseph, and a sister, Corrine.       
 COHEN-David, died peacefully the morning of August 5th at his home in Allendale, New Jersey after battling cancer, according to family friend and colleague Jerry Kaplan. Mr. Cohen, age 54, was an exceptionally bright business man and beloved husband and father. During his 23 years as a maga
 FELDSTEIN - Morris (Murray), M.D., formerly chief of Opthalmic Surgery and on the staff of Mt. Sinai Hospital, in New York City on August 2, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lucille Dee Rubin. Loving uncle of Marion Malakoff of Philadelphia; Fred and Joy Malakoff of Miami Beach, FL; Philip
 GATES-Donald Warren, Capt. 76, of Sea Level, North Carolina, formerly of Middletown and Little Silver, NJ, died at the Sailors Snug Harbor, Sea Level on Monday, August 2. He had been disabled since suffering a stroke in 1988. He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1922 and graduated from Erasmus Ha
 GRAMA-Haroun. The Yemenite Jewish Federation of America acknowledges with condolences the death of our dear member, Harry. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ephraim Isaac, Pres. The Executive Committee       
 GREENWALD-Helen Newman. The Partners and staff of Biederman Greenwald Kresch and Gerbasi extend our most heartfelt sympathy to Herbert Greeenwald and his family on the passing of his beloved wife on August 3. Morris E. Biederman Robert B. Kresch Nicholas J. Gerbasi       
 GROUP-Charles. Following a prolonged illness in Florida. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of Marc and Shelley, Esther and Badri, Bruce and Joyce, Howard and Robin. Cherished son, grandfather and brother. Decorated W.W. II hero. Loved by everyone who knew him. Religious services are
 HARRINGTON-Robert V. On August 3, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Elsa. Devoted father of Robert, Leonard, Patricia and Eileen. Loving grandfather to his 14 grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Bob's life embodied the Horatio Alger spirit. His vision, drive and courage brought him 
 HINRICHS-Charles M. Of Wantagh, NY, in his 75th year, on August 4, 1999. Beloved husband of Betty K. Proud father of C. Randall and Karen E. Loving father-in-law of Laura M. Cherished and loving grandfather of Brian, Caitlin and Kristen. Reposing at William E. Law F.H., 1 Jerusalem Ave., Ma
 McGANN-Thomas F., S.J. Beloved brother of William. Also survived by his loving nieces. Reposing at the Jesuit Community Chapel at Murray-Weigel Hall, 515 East Fordham Rd. Visitation Friday 3-5:00 and 7-9:00 PM. Mass of Christian burial Murray-Weigel Hall Chapel Saturday, 11:30 AM. For infor
 RESSNER-Michael. Of Hewlett Neck, N.Y. On August 4th at Lenox Hills Hospital in New York City. Dearest, devoted sweetheart and husband of Natalie (nee Godnick). Adoring father and special friend to John Walter Ressner and dear father-in-law of Laura Bemben. Loving brother-in-law of Enid and
 SELIGSON-David J., Dr., died on August 3, 1999, of a brief illness in his native New York City. His discerning wisdom, love of God, and abiding faith in the beauty and goodness of human beings will be missed beyond measure. His intelligence, spirit and fortitude will inspire us and give us 
 SHORE-Hy. Beloved son, brother, uncle, friend. One of the good guys who will be missed by all who shared in his joy of life. Graveside service Sunday 11AM, Mt.Hebron Cemetery, Flushing NY.       
 SNYDER-Raymond E. Born on February 22, 1912, passed away in Naples, Florida on August 2, 1999. A native of Findlay, Ohio, Mr. Snyder received a B.S. degree from Miami University, Oxford, Ohio and his M.B.A. from Harvard University. Mr. Snyder had a 36 year association with Merck Pharmaceuti
 STAHL-Stanley. The Board of Directors, volunteers and staff of the American Heart Association in New York City mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl, a devoted friend. Through his generous support, we continue to make progress in the fight against heart disease and stroke-saving lives and impr
 STEINHARDT-Sol, at age 85. Died on August 3, 1999. Beloved partner of Susanne Gyuro. Loving father of Michael. Caring uncle of Marsha. Cherished grandfather of David, Daniel and Sara. Adoring great-grandfather of Jacob. Shiva will be held Thursday, August 5th, 2-9PM and Friday, August 6, 12
 WOLF-Martha. On August 3, 1999. Beloved wife of the late John, dear mother of James and his wife, Catherine, loving sister of Florence and John. Grandmother of Susan, James and Cathy, greatgrandmother of Sarah, Jamie, Kenneth and Rebecca. Reposing Redden Funeral Home, 325 West 14 Street, NY
 Stanley Stahl, a New York real estate and banking magnate, who prosecutors say was the target of a failed murder-for-hire scheme devised by Abe Hirschfeld, another prominent businessman, died yesterday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a str
 CANTOR-Irving (Irv). On August 5, 1999 due to complications of pneumonia. He is survived by his devoted wife of 58 years, Frances; cherished daughter, Jane C. Nicholson; son-in-law Alan Seigenfeld and by his beloved grandson, A. Reid Nicholson of Los Angeles, CA. Friends may call at Frank E
 CLARK-R. Inslee, Jr. The Horace Mann Community sadly mourns the loss of its esteemed colleague and longtime friend R. Inslee Clark, Jr., who served both as Headmaster and President of Horace Mann from 1970-1991. During his two decades of service his impact on the school was great. He not on
 HERMANN-Harold. Died on August 6, 1999 at age 84. Devoted husband of Dorothy, caring father of Barbara Clapp & Kenneth Hermann, grandfather of Adrian Clapp & Laura Clapp. We will miss his steadfastness and his ability to make us laugh. His loving generous spirit will live in our hearts.    
 HERSH-Lawrence. Died August 5, 1999, peacefully at home after a long illness. Beloved husband of Carol, cherished father of Amy and Edward, loving father-in-law of Hilary, devoted grandfather of Aaron. Founder of Forrest Engraving Co. in New Rochelle. He was proud of his army service in WWI
 MARKS-Doris. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the death of Doris Marks. We extend our sincere sympathy to her grandson, Evan Marks, esteemed colleague and member of The Hebrew Home Board of Directors, his wife, Dr. Ja
 RESSNER-Michael. Of Hewlett Neck, N.Y, August 4th. Dearest, devoted sweetheart and husband of Natalie (Godnick). Adoring father and special friend to John Walter Ressner and dear father-in-law of Laura Bemben. Loving brotherin-law of Enid and Bud Van Raalte, Bob Godnick. Cherished uncle of 
 SELIGSON-David J., Rabbi. The Brotherhood of Central Synagogue deeply mourns the loss of our beloved Rabbi,and Chaplin David Seligson. As he stood on the bima, his long life was our link with the past. As he blessed our children, he traced that history into the future. Victor P. Muskin, Pre
 STAHL-Stanley. The Directors, Officers and Staff of the Apple Bank for Savings mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl, a man of remarkable spirit, warmth and sincerity. He achieved great distinction in business both as a successful real estate investor and as owner of Apple Bank. In all matters
 STEINHARDT-Sol. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Sol Steinhardt, beloved father of our good friend and supporter Michael Steinhardt. We extend our deepest condolences to Michael, his wife Judy, grandchildren David, Daniel and Sara, and the entire family. May they be comforte
 WEISSMAN-Kenneth, M.D., age 55, of Watchung, NJ on August 6, 1999. Surviving are his wife Audrey Shachnow-Weissman, two daughters Candace and Taryn Weissman, one stepson Daniel Satterwhite, a brother Frederick T. Weissman and a sister Lorraine Glazer. Funeral services will be held on Sunday
 YOST-Jack. The Board of Govenors and members of the Elberon Bathing Club mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and longtime member, Jack Yost. His warm smile and ever present sense of humor will be sorely missed by all of us who knew him. Robert Fagenson, President Ellen Winik, Secr
 LISKIN-Elliot. August 7th Through all of these many years, our treasured memories are of the warmth of Elliot's laughter, his philanthropy, compassion, tolerance, initiative, intelligence and integrity. Neither his family or friends will forget him... nor will we. Children, Grandchildren & 
 Russell Inslee Clark Jr., who as dean of undergraduate admissions at Yale University presided over the enrollment of Yale's first women in 1969, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Wallingford, Conn. He was 64 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Clark suffered a fatal heart attack w
 The Rev. S. Howard Woodson Jr., who in 1974 became the first black to lead the lower house of a state legislature, died July 28 at a hospital in Trenton. He was 83. Pastor Woodson, a Democrat, lived in Trenton and led the Shiloh Baptist Church there for 53 years. He was elected to t
 Gen. Sunthorn Kongsompong, who led a bloodless military coup in 1991 that overthrew Thailand's democratically elected Government and set the stage for a year of military rule, died on Monday in a hospital in Bangkok. He was 68. He had been under treatment for several weeks for lung 
 William James Fadiman, the Hollywood producer, script editor and book reviewer, died on June 30 at his  home in Bel Air, Calif. He was 90. Mr. Fadiman was born in Brooklyn. He attended the Sorbonne and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Wisconsin. While a student he cre
 August Huber, an investment banker and stock market analyst in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Wednesday. He was 87. He died at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., near his home in Scarborough, N.Y. Mr. Huber spent his entire career at Spencer Trask & Comp
 BRUMER-Milton. Died August 5, 1999, in Boca Raton, FL, at the age of 97. He was an adoring husband for more than 70 years to his beloved late wife, Mary. He leaves his daughters Barbara Brumer of Boca Raton and Carolyn Graham of Hartsdale, NY, son-in-law Jack Graham, granddaughters Elizabet
 COOPER-Victor. Born 1914. Died August 2, 1999 at home. Holocaust survivor. Will be terribly missed by his wife Natalie, children Belinda and Herbert, and beloved grandchildren Russell and Audrey.       
 DREXLER-Louis. On August 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Fritzie; loving father of Halbert and Francine; adoring grandfather of Ryan, Jodi and her husband Brad. He will be deeply missed by his family and friends. Services Sunday, 12 noon, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. 
 FELDSTEIN - Morris (Murray), M.D., formerly chief of Opthalmic Surgery and on the staff of Mt. Sinai Hospital, in New York City on August 2, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lucille Dee Rubin. Loving uncle of Marion Malakoff of Philadelphia; Fred and Joy Malakoff of Miami Beach, FL; Philip
 FRANK-Irving, 76, died July 31, 1999. Beloved husband of Lillian. Devoted brother of the late George. Brother-in-law of Estelle. Uncle and great-uncle. Respected attorney since 1949, and a mensch. Funeral services were held August 2. He will be greatly missed.       
 HALLIDAY-Robert W. The Directors, representatives, and staff of the HRC companies mourn the sudden passing of our founder and president, Robert Halliday. For many years a tenured professor of chemistry at Adelphi University, he later built a successful financial planning firm addressing the
 HOFFMANN-Henri-Michel, August 6, at home in Jacksonville, FL. Beloved husband of Colette for 42 years. Will be deeply missed by his family and friends. Memorial service to be announced.       
 MAZEL-Alexander. Age 89 of Forest Hills, New York, died on July 23, 1999. Loving companion of Hanni Katz; cherished uncle of Harvey and Kim Mazel; generous, adoring great-uncle of Monica and Michael Mazel; beloved brotherin-law of Leonard and Edith Mazel; devoted husband of the late Sophie 
 RESSNER-Michael. Of Hewlett Neck, N.Y, August 4th. Dearest, devoted sweetheart and husband of Natalie (Godnick). Adoring father and special friend to John Walter Ressner and dear father-in-law of Laura Bemben. Loving brotherin-law of Enid and Bud Van Raalte, Bob Godnick. Cherished uncle of 
 RING-Felix, on August 4, 1999 at age 92 in Jerusalem, Israel. Beloved husband of the late Bert Ring. He is survived by his daughter Maddi Ring, his son Allan Ring, daughter-in-law Helaine and five grandchildren, Yael, Avi, Eytan, Gavriel and Yonit Ring.       
 SHEIFER-Loeb (nee Boucchechter), 87. Died peacefully on August 6th in San Antonio, Texas. He is survived by his wife, Ethel of Morristown, NJ, his children, Susanne Braham of Manhattan and Brooks of Walnut Creek, CA., and his 3 grandchildren, Howard, Diana and William, who will miss him gre
 STAHL-Stanley. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl, a generous supporter and dedicated member of our Real Estate Division. He was a cherished friend of the Jewish community who will be greatly missed. We extend our sinc
 STEINHARDT-Sol. The American Friends of Sanz Medical Center/Laniado Hospital mourn the passing of our generous benefactor Sol Steinhardt. Hundreds of Nurses gained their skills and training in the Nursing Study Hall Sol dedicated at our Netanya Campus in memory of his parents. We express ou
 LISKIN-Elliot. August 7th Through all of these many years, our treasured memories are of the warmth of Elliot's laughter, his philanthropy, compassion, tolerance, initiative, intelligence and integrity. Neither his family or friends will forget him... nor will we. Children, Grandchildren & 
 Dr. Bastiaan J. D. Meeuse, a botany professor who withstood one of nature's foulest floral odors to unlock some of the mysteries of the voodoo lily, a plant that generates heat along with stench, died on July 27 at a hospital in Kirkland, Wash. He was 83 and had lived in Kirkland since 1953
 Harry Litwack, the Hall of Fame basketball coach at Temple University and a popular figure on the Philadelphia sports scene for half a century, died Saturday at his home in Huntingdon Valley, Pa. He was 91. Litwack had few high-profile players, but the coach known as Chief produced 
 Jerry Yulsman, a tail gunner on World War II bomber flights who later wrote a ''what if'' novel in which Hitler is killed in 1913, died on Friday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 75 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Barbara Woike.   
 DUTKA-Solomon. Beloved husband, father, stepfather, entrepreneur, scholar, scientist, philanthropist and friend. Mourned by his wife Joyce, his sons Jim and Michael, his stepsons David, Barry and Stephen, and their children Gaia, Max, and Navah, plus a legion of professional associates and 
 LeFEVRE-Edwin Jr. Age 96, died August 7. He was born October 21 1902, the son of author and ambassador, Edwin LeFevre Sr. He married Charlotte (Griffith) LeFevre. Mr. LeFevre worked on Wall Street as a partner in the brokerage firm of DeCoppet and Dormus. A memorial service will be held at 
 STEINHARDT-Sol. The Board of Trustees of the Hannah Senesh Community Day School notes with sadness the death of Sol Steinhardt, beloved father of Michael Steinhardt, a true friend of Jewish education and supporter of the Jewish community. May the Steinhardt family and all who knew him be co
 STOCKTON-Henry Haines. 83, of Spring Lake, NJ, died Friday at home. Retired sales executive, Equitable Life Insurance. A lifelong resident of New York and New Jersey, Mr. Stockton was an avid tennis supporter and the first American national player to wear shorts. Founder of the Lawrencevill
 STYLES-Arthur Dennis. Age 85, of Sebring, FL. Died August 5, 1999. Born in Montreal, moving to Sebring in 1998. He was an investment banker for Kidder Peabody in Boston. He is survived by his wife Mary Alice Styles & daughter Susan Tuttle both of Sebring, two grandchildren and two greatgran
 Harry (the Hat) Walker, who made baseball history twice when he won the National League batting title in 1947, died Sunday at University of Alabama Hospital in Birmingham. Walker, who lived in Leeds, Ala., was 80. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. W
 Milton Brumer, an engineer who managed the construction of such mighty bridges as the Verrazano-Narrows over New York Bay, the Throgs Neck over the East River, and the Walt Whitman over the Delaware, died Thursday at a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 97 and lived in Boca Raton. 
 BUCHSBAUM-Moritz. Of New York. Formerly of Frankfort/ Main. Beloved husband of Madeline. Died August 7, 1999. Also survived by his sister Rose Lieberman of Kew Gardens, many nieces, newphews, great nieces and great nephews.       
 DUTKA-Solomon. Beloved husband, father, stepfather, entrepreneur, scholar, scientist, philanthropist & friend. Mourned by his wife Joyce, his sons Jim and Michael, his stepsons David, Barry and Stephen, and their children Gaia, Max, and Navah, plus a legion of professional associates and lo
 GRUNBERGER - Dezider, M.D. We were saddened to learn of the death of Dr. Dezider Grunberger. he was an outstanding contributor to cancer research and biochemistry, gave distinguished service to the University for many years and was a beloved teacher and colleague. Herbert Irving Comprehensi
 KAHN-Dr. Bernard of Boca Raton, Florida. Died August 9, 1999. Beloved husband of the late May (Horovin) Kahn. Cherished father of Dr. Judith Kahn of Charlottesville, Va., Roberta Kahn of Brooklyn Heights, N.Y., Maxine Lerman and son-in-law Manuel of Manchester, Ct. Loving brother of Charles
 KLEINERMAN-Jerome I., Dr. 75, An internationally renowned scientist in the field of pulmonary pathology whose research led to a better understanding of environmental lung diseases, died Friday (August 6) in Arcadia, FL, following an auto accident. Dr. Kleinerman was professor emeritus of pa
 LUNDBERG-Harold Gordon. Of Summit, NJ, on August 5, 1999, husband of the late Mildred Bailey Lundberg, father of Lois Carter of New Hartford, NY and Robert B. Lundberg of Bluffton, SC. An active alumnus of Rutgers University and Chi Psi Fraternity at New Brunswick, NJ. A Memorial service wi
 STAHL-Stanley. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the untimely passing of an industry legend, Stanley Stahl. Stanley left an indelible mark upon our industry and as such he will be remembered forever. May his memory be a blessing. The Principals 
 STEINHARDT-Sol. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations extends its condolences to its esteemed friend Michael Steinhardt on the passing of his beloved father. To the entire family, our prayers that they will find comfort at this time of their loss and be console
 Victor Mature, who attained movie stardom dressed in a wooly mammoth loincloth, died on Wednesday in San Diego County, Calif. He was 86, according to the Motion Picture Almanac, although other reference books put him at 83 or 84. He died of cancer, said Zollie Volchok, a friend.    
 Jack Laskowski, an international vice president of the United Auto Workers who was in charge of negotiations with the DaimlerChrysler Corporation, died on Sunday in Lewiston, Mich. He was 59 and lived in Canton, Mich. The cause was a heart attack, a spokesman for the union, Roger Ke
 Johnny Van Ryn, whose doubles partnership with Wilmer Allison proved to be the anchoring force of the United States Davis Cup team from 1929 to 1936, died Saturday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 94 years old. Born in Newport News, Va., in 1905, Van Ryn's doubles expertise first attracte
 BONDON-Lewis A. Of Montclair, New Jersey. Died August 6, 1999 of congestive heart failure at his summer home in Mantoloking, N.J. Mr. Bondon was retired Chief Executive Officer of Prodelin Inc., the microwave communications firm he founded in 1945. He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Ma
 DEGNAN-Donald, 76. Died August 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Connie; loving father of Lissa & Diana. World War II veteran, University of Notre Dame graduate. He will remain in our hearts forever.       
 DUTKA-Solomon. Beloved husband, father, stepfather, entrepreneur, scholar, scientist, philanthropist & friend. Mourned by his wife Joyce, his sons Jim and Michael, his stepsons David, Barry and Stephen, and their children Gaia, Max, and Navah, plus a legion of professional associates and lo
 FELDMAN-Samuel K. On August 8, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Frieda and the late Harriet. Devoted father of Barbara Hope, Gary and the late David. Dear brother of Abe, Ann Rosenberg and Ida Lambert. Cherished grandfather of Gena and Harris. Adored partner of Rita Levey. His spirit will 
 GERSTEN-Marvin. He was a father, a husband, a hilarious, incredibly generous, ultra-charismatic, whip-smart and very good looking man. Marvin Gersten died comfortably in his home, at the age of 60, of malignant melanoma, August 10, 1999, surrounded by his family. A self-made man, Marvin gre
 KLEINERMAN-Jerome, I., M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health note with profound sadness the tragic death of our former colleague, Jerome I. Kleinerman, M.D. Dr. Kleinerman served with distinction as the 
 LEFF-Marvin, 82. August 6, 1999. A kind and gentle man. Beloved husband of Lillian. Loving father of Charles and Richard. Cherished grandfather of Amanda, Alison, Kimberly and Wendy. He will be greatly missed. ''And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.''       
 NADEL-Joan S. Of Hartsdale, NY. Age 68. Died August 9, 1999. Wife of Robert Nadel. Mother of Steven Nadel and his wife Cindy. Grandmother of Marcy Nadel. Services private. Ballard-Durand Funeral Home, White Plains, NY.       
 YOUNG - Theodore John of Greenwich, Connecticut on August 5, 1999 at age 103. He is survived by his son, George W. Young, grandchildren, Ian, Jessica and Ross Lanier and great grandchildren, Jorie and Ian Lanier. Funeral will be held at 10:30AM August 14, at St. Paul's Chapel, Broadway and 
 William L. Slayton, who moved against racial discrimination as Commissioner of Urban Renewal in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 and lived in Washington. Mr. Slayton, a Kansas-born Democrat, worked f
 Anthony Stanislas Radziwill, a television executive who received both Emmy and Peabody Awards, died Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 40 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Radziwill, the only son of Lee Bouvier Radziwill Ross and the late Prince Stanislas Radziwill, had bat
 ABRAMS-Joseph. Of Bedminster, NJ, 63, died August 11 of cancer. He was born in New York City on February 2, 1936. A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School and an MBA from New York University, he was a founder of AGS Computers Inc., and served as its President and Chief 
 ALPERN-Dwight K. Chemist, electrical engineer, metallurgist, mineralogist, writer, educator. Born on August 21, 1903; died on August 10th, 1999. Son of Morris Israel Alpern and Anna Trenner Alpern. Survived by his sons John, Andrew and Jerrold, and his grandchildren, Alison and Adam. His wi
 DIETZGEN-Walter Carl. On August 7, 1999 in Indian Wells, CA. Former resident of Northport, NY. Captain in the Army Air Corps during World War II and Executive of Eugene Dietzgen Company, Inc. Survived by his wife Carole, his sons Charles, Henry and Mark and four grandchildren. Services were
 MEER-Jesse R. Cherished husband of Joan and brother of Mel Meer; father of Jeffrey, Jonathan & Julie Beth; adored grandfather of Jason, Jake, Ben, Meredith, Jocelyn and Justin. He fought valiantly for almost 3 years against liver cancer and died peacefully at Glens Falls Hospital on August 
 MULLANEY-Edward J. On Aug. 6, 1999. Beloved son of Edward and Mary. Dear brother of Karen Cerise and Kelly. Also survived by one niece and 3 nephews. Funeral from Francis X. Hatton Funeral Home, Inc. 36-46 Bell Blvd. Bayside on Saturday. Mass of Christian burial at Our Lady of the Blessed S
 PRAVIN-Michael S. Vice President of Russian Television Network (RTN) died on Tuesday August 10, 1999 in the morning of stomach cancer in Stamford, CT. Mr. Pravin, who immigrated with his family to the U.S. from the former Soviet Union, was one of the first successful businessman in Russian 
 STOTT-William R. Of Ridgewood, N.J., died August 11, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Irene (nee Kearns). Loving father of William R. Stott, Jr., of Oakhill, Va., and St. Michaels, Maryland; Betsy Kimmerle of Wyckoff, New Jersey; Susan Stott of Westchester, Penn.; Michael Stott of Ho-Ho-Ku
 WEHRELL-Walter, Sr. ''Bud''. Of Hohokus, N.J. Died August 10, 1999 in his 82nd year. Beloved husband of Grace B. (nee Crowley) and the late Mary Lucille (nee Callahan). Loving father of Walter Stuart Jr. of San Francisco, CA., Col. Michael Anthony (A.F., Retired) of O'Fallon, IL. and Thomas
 Solomon Dutka, who started a marketing research firm in a one-room office in New York City in 1953 that grew into one of the largest companies in the industry, died on Saturday at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Dutka, who was 75, was the chairman of Audits and Surveys Worldwi
 Whitney Darrow Jr., a witty, gently satiric cartoonist for The New Yorker for 50 years, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Burlington, Vt. He was 89 and lived with his wife, Mildred, in Shelburne, Vt. Mr. Darrow, one of the last of the early New Yorker cartoonists -- a group that incl
 Earle M. Jorgensen, who built one of the nation's largest steel distribution companies and helped persuade Ronald Reagan to go into politics, died Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 101 and until weeks before his death went to work nearly every day at the business he found
 John Dortch Lewis, whose exploits as a prisoner of war in Germany provided the basis for the character played by Steve McQueen in the 1963 film ''The Great Escape,'' died of pancreatic cancer Sunday at his home in Goldsboro, N.C. He was 84. Gene Price, a friend and the former editor
 AJCES-Leon. Died August 10, 1999. Beloved & devoted husband of Betty. Will be cherished by all for his decency, honesty and integrity as well as his generosity and his love of people. In lieu of flowers, please send all donations to The American Cancer Society.       
 EASTON-Robert. A retired engineer at Bell Laboratories and longtime teacher at Fortune Society, died yesterday at his home of a heart attack. He was 68 years old. Mr. Easton was born in Munich, Germany, moved with his family to Chicago where he was in the Hutchins Program at the University 
 HOCHSTIN-Leo. On August 11, 1999 at age 99. Beloved husband of the late Ann. Loving father of Wilma Morse & Roger. Dear brother of the late Alfred & Otto. Devoted grandfather of David, Stacey, Keith and Todd. Great grandfather of Chase, Rebecca, Chelsea, Leah, Ari, Alexa and Taylor. Service
 MORTIMER-Stanley G. Of New York, a former aviation advertising executive, died on August 11, at his home in Harriman, New York after a long illness. He was 86 years old. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Kathleen H. Mortimer; his sisters, Eve Mortimer Ledyard of Unionville, Pennsylvan
 MULLANEY-Edward J. On Aug. 6, 1999. Beloved son of Edward and Mary. Dear brother of Karen Cerise and Kelly. Also survived by one niece and 3 nephews. Funeral from Francis X. Hatton Funeral Home, Inc. 36-46 Bell Blvd. Bayside on Saturday. Mass of Christian burial at Our Lady of the Blessed S
 PINCUS-Paul. Passed away suddenly on August 11, 1999. Loving husband, father and adored by ten wonderful grandchildren. Paul was a kind and gentle man, full of warmth, grace and empathy. He will be missed by all who knew him. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to Hebrew Academy for S
 POPPER-Walter L, on August 11, 1999 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Betty, devoted father of Steven, Joseph & the late Holly; adoring grandfather of Aimie, Emily, Jessie, Ben and Julia. He was a wonderful and cherished friend to all, a great philanthropist and a genuinely caring h
 SANGHVI - Prafulla. Beloved brother and uncle, passed away peacefully in New York on Wednesday, August 11th, 1999. After taking his Ph.D.in Economics from Cambridge University, Dr. Sanghvi had a distinguished career as a senior economist in the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) in N
 SWEEDLER-Roy. On August 11, 1999. The love of David Bernstein's life. Loving brother of Helen and Shirley. Dear uncle of Michael, Robin and Sondra. Greatuncle of Matthew and best friend to all. He will be profoundly missed and in our hearts forever. Service on Friday, 12:30 P.M., at the ''R
 TERENZIO-Peter B., Sr. Age 83 of Moorings Park, Naples, FL and Madison, CT, died Thursday, August 12, 1999 in Florida. He was the husband of Eileen Alma (Mosher) Terenzio. Mr. Terenzio was born March 6, 1916 in New York City, son of the late Vincent Marianna (Piantino) Terenzio. Mr. Terenzi
 VESPA-Mario. The partners and the staff of Fratelli Cosulich and Asamar wish to express their sadness and sorrow on the passing of Captain Vespa, a longtime partner and friend. His achievements in the passenger vessels industry have left a mark which will not be forgotten. May his memory be
 Robert Marshall Viles, a former dean and president of Franklin Pierce Law Center in Concord, N.H., died on Monday in a swimming accident while on vacation in France. He was 60 and lived in Concord. The law center said Mr. Viles drowned off the coast of Brittany when he was pulled un
 Ignatz Bubis, who survived the Holocaust and led Germany's small post-war Jewish community for nearly two decades, died in a hospital here today. He was 72. Mr. Bubis's death was announced in a brief statement by the Central Council for German Jews, which did not give the cause of d
 Jean Drapeau, who in nearly three decades as the autocratic Mayor of Montreal brought both grandeur and grandiosity to his city, died on Thursday. He was 83. Mr. Drapeau, who left office in 1986, had been in fragile health since suffering a stroke several years ago. He had been in t
 COHLAN-Sidney Q., Dr., 84. Of New York on August 12th, 1999. Beloved husband of Dr. Shirley Stone, loving father of Dr. Barbara Cohlan Perlmutter, Deborah Cohlan and John Cohlan, adored grandfather of Andrew and Lisa Perlmutter and Alexander Stone Cohlan, and caring father-of-law of David P
 EPSTEIN-Harry. Of Lawrence, Long Island, on August 13, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Clara Epstein, devoted father of Leonard and Edward, adoring father-inlaw to Karen & Jeanne, and loving grandfather to Samantha, Allison, Alanna, Dana, Lindsey, Jamie, Alanna's husband Jamie Levine and 
 KLASFELD-Ichabod. The Board of Directors and Staff of NYC & Company and its division, the New York Convention & Visitors Bureau, extend their deepest sympathy to their colleague and friend David Klasfeld on the passing of his father, Ichabod. Our condolences to his entire family.       
 KRONSTADT - Robert. Passed away on August 12 from complications from Alzheimers. He was 79 years old. He is survived by his beloved wife of 53 years, Sylvia, and his loving sons, Michael and Daniel. His family and friends will miss him dearly. Services private, memorial to be held later. In
 LANE-John Bassett. Age 89, died August 11, 1999 in New Canaan, CT. A long time resident of Riverside, CT, he retired as Director of Real Estate Administration from the Sperry Rand Corp. He was a member of the Association of ExMembers of the Squadron A, the Riverside Yacht Club and vestry of
 MORTIMER-Stanley G. Of New York, a former aviation advertising executive, died on August 11, at his home in Harriman, New York after a long illness. He was 86 years old. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Kathleen H. Mortimer; his sisters, Eve Mortimer Ledyard of Unionville, Pennsylvan
 TERENZIO-Peter. Greater New York Hospital Association regrets the passing of Peter Terenzio, former Executive Vice President of Roosevelt Hospital. Mr. Terenzio, a true visionary, was deeply committed to improving the health care of all New Yorkers and former Chairman of Greater New York Ho
 Stanley Grafton Mortimer Jr., a sportsman, advertising executive and member of one of the founding families of the exclusive enclave of Tuxedo Park, N.Y., died on Wednesday after a long illness at his home in Harriman, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Mortimer was a member of an illustrious Amer
 Carl Toms, a set and costume designer for the theater, opera, ballet and film, died on Aug. 4 at his home in Hertfordshire, England. He was 72. The cause was emphysema, The Guardian reported. Mr. Toms trained at the Mansfield College of Art in Mansfield, Nottingham, and in L
 Dezider Grunberger, a cancer researcher and professor emeritus of biochemistry, molecular biophysics and public health at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, died on Aug. 7 at a nursing home in Cresskill, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. The cause wa
 Jerome Irving Kleinerman, a pathologist and lung specialist who helped develop national health standards for the workplace, died in an automobile accident on Aug. 6 in Arcadia, Fla. A former resident of Shaker Heights, Ohio, he was 75 and had retired to Palm Beach Garden, Fla., four years a
 Lane Kirkland, who was president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. from 1979 to 1995,  a troubled period for American workers, and who resigned after an angry revolt of union presidents, died yesterday morning at his home in Washington. He was 77. The cause of death was lung cancer, said his wif
 ABRAMS-David. On Wednesday, August 11, 1999. Beloved father of Alvin. Loving father-in-law of Estelle. Devoted brother of Julius. Adored grandfather, great-grandfather. Cherished uncle of several nieces and nephews. He was a founding member of Lincoln Square Synagogue. Services Sunday, 11 A
 BUBIS-Ignatz. The World Jewish Congress mourns the passing of Ignatz Bubis, courageous head of Germany's Jewish community and President of The European Jewish Congress. The Jewish world has lost a great champion of human rights who embodied the Jewish experience from the depth of the Holoca
 CALDWELL-Henry Bryan, born June 22, 1918, died August 9, 1999, formerly a director of the Ft. Worth Art Center and the Chrysler Museum in Norfolk, VA. He was the owner of the Museum Gallery Book Shop, a hobby he loved. Graduate of St. George's '36; Harvard '40 and NYU Graduate School of Fin
 COHLAN-Sidney Q., Dr., 84. Of New York on August 12th, 1999. Beloved husband of Dr. Shirley Stone, loving father of Dr. Barbara Cohlan Perlmutter, Deborah Cohlan and John Cohlan, adored grandfather of Andrew and Lisa Perlmutter and Alexander Stone Cohlan, and caring father-of-law of David P
 D'ANTUONIO-Salvatore. Suddenly on August 13, 1999. Survived by his sister Ann and three nephews. Dear friend of Don Rose. Reposing at Thomas M. Quinn & Sons, 35-20 Broadway, Long Island City, NY. Visitation Sunday, 2-5 and 79:30. Funeral mass Monday, 10 AM at St. Catherine Sienna R.C. Churc
 EPSTEIN-Harry. Of Lawrence, Long Island, on August 13, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Clara Epstein, devoted father of Leonard and Edward, adoring father-inlaw to Karen & Jeanne, and loving grandfather to Samantha, Allison, Alanna, Dana, Lindsey, Jamie, Alanna's husband Jamie Levine and 
 GARDINER-Hilliard, of Kew Gardens, Queens, died Sunday, May 23, 1999. He is survived by a nephew and a niece. Member of Yale Alumni Club of Queens. Graduate of Yale Law School, 1949. Hilliard will be sadly missed by the counselors, friends and students whom he interviewed for admission to Y
 GEVIRTZ-Milton. A loving husband, supportive father and grandfather, and former president of the Men's Club of the Garden Jewish Center in Queens, died August 13 at the age of 78. A World War II veteran who served with the Signal Corps in Europe, Milton was a mensch. He had a kind heart, en
 KACERE-John C. Of NYC, 79, died August 5 in Cedar Rapids, IA. Born June 23, 1920 in Walker, IA. An artist of significance with an international reputation. He was featured in numerous exhibitions, books and periodicals, and was a devoted professor at NYU, Cooper Union, University of New Mex
 KELMAN-Arnold L. On August 14, 1999, at his home in Stamford, CT. Beloved husband of Sally Kandel Kelman. Loving father of Bill Kelman, Laney Sachs and Mandy Kelman and loving grandfather of Alexander and Emma Sachs. Funeral Monday at 2 PM, Temple Sinai, 458 Lakeside Drive, Stamford. Burial
 KLASFELD - Ichabod Michael (Mickey). Beloved husband of Pauline for 62 years, beloved father of and role model for David, beloved grandfather and father-inlaw of Rebecca and Hila. World traveler, art collector, tennis player, wit, political enthusiast, rememberer of names, nice guy.        
 LAND-Edgar Law (Bud). Of Madison, New Jersey on Tuesday, August 10, 1999. Husband of the late Agnes Land. Loving father of Edgar Law Land, Jr. of Barto, PA; Margurite Blanck of Brooklyn, N.Y.; Anthony Land of West Redding, CT; Justina Leler of Austin, TX; Zachary Land of Madison, N.J.; Bene
 MANDEVILLE-William Walton. Age 90, of Manhattan, on August 13, 1999. He was the son of the late Henry W. and Edith Mandeville. A graduate of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, he was an internal auditor at the New York Telephone Company, employed there from age 20 to his 
 OKUN-Maxwell Of New York City, died August 9, 1999. Mr Okun was pre-deceased by his loving wife Sally J. Okun. He is survived by many nieces and nephews and will be missed by all who knew him.       
 PARKE-Robert Beatty. Beloved husband of Margaret. Died at his home in Bedford, NY, on August 11. He served as a B-17 pilot during WW II and flew transports to Japan and Greenland in post-war activities. He was awarded two Air Medals and a Distinguished Flying Cross. In 1952 he entered the a
 PETERSON-Richard J. Of West Nyack, NY, on August 13, 1999. Beloved husband of Marion. Loving father of Richard, Charles and Robert. Cherished grandfather of Deirdre, Hannah, Louis, Rachel, Nicholas, Brianna and Ryan. Reposing Hawthorne Funeral Home, 21 Stevens Ave., Hawthorne, NY, on Sunday
 POPPER-Walter. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Center for Jewish History extend their deepest sympathies to Betty and the entire Popper family. Walter was a true friend of the Jewish people and a beloved supporter of The Center. His vision for increased Jewish education and the unit
 PORGES-Michel T. Died August 10, 1999, of a heart attack. Beloved brother of Lady Florence Packer and father of Charles and Anne. He will be cherished by all for his Old World gentlemanliness as well as his decency, integrity and honesty. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Ameri
 SWEEDLER-Roy. On August 11, 1999. The love of David Bernstein's life. Loving brother of Helen and Shirley. Dear uncle of Michael, Robin and Sondra. Greatuncle of Matthew and best friend to all. He will be profoundly missed and in our hearts forever.       
 TERENZIO-Peter. The St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center family is saddened to learn of the death of our esteemed colleague Peter Terenzio, former Executive VicePresident of Roosevelt Hospital. Our deepest sympathies are extended to Peter's family, friends and all who loved him. Lawrence Hun
 YELLIS-Joseph, Dr., August 1, 1917-December 23, 1998. Dr. Yellis practiced podiatry near Carnegie Hall for more than 30 years, treating artists, business, and professional people, and neighbors in Brooklyn, Bayside, Great Neck, the Jersey shore & South Florida. His orthopedic devices were p
 Pee Wee Reese, the Hall of Fame shortstop and hugely popular captain of the Brooklyn Dodgers in their glory years of the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 81. He had been battling lung cancer since 1997, when he underwent radiation treatment after surgery 
 Lieut. Col. Ernesto Melo Antunes, a Portuguese Army officer who was an architect and ideologist of the almost bloodless coup that overthrew his country's longtime conservative dictatorship in 1974 and led to the return of democracy, died on Tuesday in his home in Sintra, outside Lisbon. He 
 Frank M. Kleiler, a retired deputy assistant Secretary of Labor and a former executive secretary of the National Labor Relations Board, died on Aug. 8 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md., where he lived. He was 85. In the Johnson and Nixon Administrations, Mr. Kleiler served as 
 EPSTEIN-Harry. Solid as a rock, that's the way we always thought of Harry. We knew he'd always be there. It was a lifelong pleasure and honor to know him. He shall be our constant reminder of all the good in the world. Bea and Bill Teitelbaum       
 HOLDEMAN-Arthur Louis, Captain. 82, of Galveston, TX, passed away Saturday, August 14, 1999, at UTMB Hospital. Funeral service will be 10 AM, Wednesday, August 18, 1999 at First Presbyterian Church in Crowley, LA, with Reverend Wilmer McNair officiating. Burial will follow the service at Wo
 KIRKLAND-Lane. The officers, members and staff of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union mourn the loss of retired AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland. He was a champion of working people not just in the United States but throughout the world. His words and actions gave voice to the y
 MANDEVILLE-William Walton. Age 90, of Manhattan, on August 13, 1999. He was the son of the late Henry W. and Edith Mandeville. A graduate of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, he was an internal auditor at the New York Telephone Company, employed there from age 20 to his 
 MENDELOFF-Erick Chad. Beloved son of Neal and Vera. Loving and beautiful brother of Dara Nicole. Grandson of Christopher. Nephew and cousin of the Shiffman, Peterson and Seaton families. Services 10 AM, Monday, ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. MENDELOFF-Erick. In lovin
 PEARLSTEIN-Bess. On August 15, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Jules Pearlstein. Loving mother of Rona Kellman and husband Ira, and Jeff and his wife Nancy. Devoted sister of Ruth and Julius Eingoren, Francine and Stanley Richter. Adoring grandmother of Michael and Idana, Jennifer and Ar
 BITNER-John Williamdd for,nat<siz/%f con . Air Force Brigadier General, Ret., 83, died of leukemia, August 13. President of Princeton Club of New York. Aidede-camp to Governor Lowell Weicker Jr., awarded the Legion of Merit by President Nixon. Beloved husband of the late Martha Louise Bitne
 COHLAN-Sidney Q., M.D.dd for,nat<siz/%f con KiDS of NYU Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Sidney Cohlan. He was a gifted physician and teacher. His wisdom and generosity of spirit inspired us to create this organization. We, together with the countless children and families of KiDS, 
 Pee Wee Reese, the Hall of Fame shortstop and hugely popular captain of the Brooklyn Dodgers who played on seven pennant-winning teams, died Saturday at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 81. He had been battling lung cancer since 1997, when he underwent radiation treatment after su
 Tang Tsou, an authority on modern China and a longtime professor at the University of Chicago, died on Aug. 7 in a hospital in Chicago. He was 80 and lived in Chicago. The cause was heart failure, said William Harms of the university's news office. Professor Tsou retired fro
 Robert T. Jones, an innovator in aircraft design at NASA who played an important role in developing the high-speed swept wing, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 89. During World War II, as the designers of combat aircraft sought ever-greater speeds, Ger
 William R. Stott, who rose from selling petroleum products in Pennsylvania to the highest executive levels of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey before beginning a second career as a venture capitalist and consultant, died on Wednesday. He was 91. Mr. Stott, who did business wit
 Frederick Hart, a sculptor best known for his ''Three Soldiers'' statue at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial and for his ''Creation'' sculptures at the National Cathedral in Washington, died on Friday at a hospital in Baltimore. He was 56 and lived in Hume, Va. The cause was lung cancer
 BUBIS-Ignatz. We mourn the loss of a great Jewish leader who was the conscience of contemporary Germany. As a survivor, he consistently and courageously spoke out on behalf of Holocaust memory and responsibility. As a result of his Holocaust experiences, he understood the singular importanc
 BULGER-Howard J., age 80, of Hockessin, DE, died Sunday, August 15th, 1999. Mr. Bulger, a Marine Corps veteran, was a teacher and coach at Iona College. He graduated from Manhattan College and Columbia. He is survived by wife, Jeanne, 3 children, 4 stepsons and 14 grandchildren. In lieu of 
 COHLAN-Sidney Q., M.D. KiDS of NYU Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Sidney Cohlan. He was a gifted physician and teacher. His wisdom and generosity of spirit inspired us to create this organization. We, together with the countless children and families of KiDS, have lost a wonderful
 FELD-Efrem, PhD. Died August 11, 1999. In gratitude for his many years of service to the Alfred Adler Center for Mental Health, Efrem Feld, PhD is mourned and will be missed by all who knew him. Joan Odes, LCSW Executive Director, AACMH       
 KAIDEN-Samuel. Age 88, died August 16, 1999. Survived by his loving wife, Kitty, sons, Lawrence(Diane) and Charles (Ethel), grandchildren, Shari, Wendy, Michael and Steven. Funeral services Wednesday August 18th, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad St, Mount Vernon, NY.       
 KIRKLAND-Lane. The Board of Directors and staff of the National Committee for Labor Israel mourn the passing of Lane Kirkland. Working with the National Committee for Labor Israel, and through the labor movement, the former president of the AFL-CIO was an indefatigable supporter of a strong
 KLUTZNICK-Philip M., Ambassador. The officers and directors of the American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology (ATS) mourn the passing of Philip M. Klutznick of Chicago, Illinois. Ambassador Klutznick was a legendary philanthropist and leader of the world Jewish community a
 SALOMON-Samuel, Dr. Died at the age of 95 on Saturday, August 14, 1999 of natural causes in Stamford, CT. Born in Suwalk, Poland, he emigrated to New York City in 1920. A graduate of New York University and the University of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry, he practiced in New York City fo
 SHAFER-Sid John, MD. Age 82, well-known and prominent orthopedic surgeon. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Hamilton Shafer; dear father of Philip H. (Antoinette Stewart) Shafer and Lea (Craig) Crawford; loving grandfather of Ashley and Caroline; fond brother of Francis (the late David) Am
 SIMONS-Gus. In Pacific Palisades August 14. Our dearest long time friend and confidant. He will always be in our hearts. Deepest sympathy and love to his beloved Ally and their large wonderful family. Suzie and Jerry Berns       
 SPIELMAN-Gerald M. It is with great sadness that Congregation Beth Elohim mourns the sudden passing of its recent president, Gerald Spielman. For five years, ''Doc Gerry'' led the congregation with dedication and caring. His commitment to Jewish learning was an inspiration to all. As a pedi
 VAN KIRK-W. Philip, attorney, of Rye, NY and Williamsville, VT, died at home on August 15, age 79. A graduate of Columbia Law, he was managing partner at Burns, Van Kirk, Greene and Kafer in New York and, recently, of counsel to Meighan and Necarsulmer in Mamaroneck. Married to Dorothy Kean
 VAN NOSTRAND-William P. of Bronxville, N.Y., age 79. Retired Executive Search Consultant, died August 15, 1999 after a long illness. He attended The Taft School in Watertown, CT and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge MA, class of 1942. He was a member of the Holland Soci
 Philip M. Klutznick, a Chicago real estate developer, investor and philanthropist who was long prominent in Jewish communal affairs and served as Secretary of Commerce in the Carter Administration, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 92. Mr. Klutznick was national presid
 Dr. Sidney Q. Cohlan, a New York pediatrician long affiliated with the New York University School of Medicine, died Thursday at the university's Tisch Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan, Ocean Beach, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla. Dr. Cohlan retired in 1990 from private practice
 Carlos Cachaca, one of Brazil's most prolific and beloved songwriters and a founder of the samba troupe whose creativity made Rio de Janeiro's annual pre-Lenten Carnival an international attraction, died here on Monday. He was 97. Mr. Cachaca, whose real name was Carlos Moreira de C
 Martin Wong, a painter whose meticulous visionary realism is among the lasting legacies of New York's East Village art scene of the 1980's  and a precursor of the identity-driven work of the 90's, died last Thursday at his parents' home in San Francisco. He was 53 and had lived in San Franc
 Paddy Devlin, who was active in the founding of Northern Ireland's moderate Social Democratic and Labor Party, its most popular Catholic party, died on Sunday. He was 74 and a resident of Belfast. He died after a lengthy hospitalization, The Associated Press reported. Mr. De
 ABRAMS-Joseph. The Officers, Board and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of its respected Board Member Joseph Abrams. Deeply concerned about children's welfare and happiness, he supported JDC's efforts on behalf of Ethiopian Jews. We extend co
 BARRIE-George N. Of Doylestown, PA and formerly of Rosemont, NJ on August 14,1999.Husband of Mary Adams Barrie. Father of Bruce (Maureen) Barrie of Newtown, PA, Bruner (Nancy) Barrie of Pennington, NJ, Tina (David) Murphy of Boston, MA, Diane (Herbert) Rood of Hamilton Twp, NJ. Stepfather o
 CRAVIOTO-Humberto, M.D. The Department of Neurology of the NYU School of Medicine sadly acknowledges the passing of our honored colleague and friend Humberto C. Cravioto. He was a fine scientist and physician and a warm, deeply decent human being. His good humor, compassion and professional
 DEFREITAS - William Richard ''Dick.'' Of Charlottesville, died Tuesday, August 17, 1999 in Charlottesville, VA. He is survived by his wife, Jane Wyatt DeFreitas of Charlottesville formerly of Washington, DC, New York and Stamford, CT, two sons, one daughter and six grandchildren. A funeral 
 HARRISON-Stanley H. After a long illness on August 16, 1999. Beloved husband of Miriam. Loving father of Nancy Harrison and Gerald Kolodny of West Newton, Ma. and Ellen Harrison Barnett of Dover, N.H. Loving grandfather and great-grandfather. Graveside service today, 1PM, at Beth Moses Ceme
 KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The members, leadership and staff of B'nai B'rith International deeply mourn the passing of their esteemed past international president, Philip M. Klutznick. Klutznick was one of B'nai B'rith's and world Jewry's greatest leaders. From 1953 to 1959, he served as President
 MAREN-Thomas H, Dr. Died peacefully on August 15, 1999 at home at Salisbury Cove, ME. Husband, father, grandfather, world renowned educator, pharmacologist, physiologist and philanthropist; beloved and respected by wife, family, research, clinical and teaching colleagues. Survived by his wi
 MUNGER-John D. Age 96, of New Canaan, CT, on August 12, 1999. Survived by his daughter Susan H. Munger, and one son, Hiram H. Munger. Memorial Service Saturday August 21st, at 11:30 A.M. at Saint Mark's Church, Route 124, New Canaan, CT.       
 RODGERS-James J. 93, of Pittsburgh, PA, formerly of Hackensack. Died Thursday. He was the founder and President of The Rodgers Company in Hackensack. A member and past Governor of the Rotary Club District #       
 ROSENBERG-David. Deeply devoted and loving husband to Adrienne for 62 years. Incredibly wonderful father to Stephanie and Larry Levy and Janet Catalina, adoring Poppy to Jennifer, Allison and Mark, darling great-grandpa to Talia and dear brother of the late Mary Levinsky and Morris Rosenber
 ROTHMAN-Samuel William. Beloved husband of Stella. Devoted father of Allen Joel Rothman and David Lawrence Rothman. Loving grandfather of Nancy, Larry, Paul, Laura and Will. Lt. Colonel U.S. Army Reserve (Retired), and served in Europe during World War II. Recipient of the Combat Infantryma
 RUML-Alvin. Of Redding, CT, died Monday, August 16 at his home. He was 74. Mr. Ruml was born in Bronxville, New York to the late Beardsley and Lois Treadwell Ruml. He attended PhillipsExeter Academy and Harvard University. He graduated from Washington Square College and New York University 
 SCANLON-Martin S. Family and friends mourn his passing on Tuesday, August 17. He is survived by daughters, Diana and Marcy, and brother, Walter.       
 SHOR-Edwin G. Treasured father of Anita Asch and Deborah Casper, beloved father-in-law of Arthur and Glenn, proud grandfather of Michael, Toni, Lisa, and Joshua, and great grandfather of Alexis and David. Dear brother of Jack and loving friend of Lillian Bienstock. A quiet man of deep feeli
 SPIELMAN-Gerald M., M.D. It is with great sadness that Congregation Beth Elohim mourns the sudden passing of its recent president, Gerald Spielman. For five years, ''Doc Jerry'' led the congregation with dedication and caring. His commitment to Jewish learning was an inspiration to all. As 
 WERNER-Welles. 80, of New York, died August 16, 1999 in Seattle, WA. He was born September 4, 1918 in Brooklyn, NY. He worked as a commercial interior designer for over 40 years in the New York area. Welles is survived by his daughters, April and Nancy Werner, and his sister, Estelle Keller
 Edward L. Palmer, a media consultant who fused education with entertainment, and helped in the early development of ''Sesame Street,'' died on Aug. 1 at a hospice in Ithaca, N.Y.. He was 66. The cause was complications from prostate cancer, said his wife, Vera B. Bauer-Palmer.      
 CRAVIOTO-Humberto, M., MD. The Faculty and Staff of NYU School of Medicine and The NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of Humberto M. Cravioto, MD, Professor of Pathology, at age 75. Dr. Cravioto joined NYU in 1957 and served its community for 42 years. Dr. Cravioto was an accomplished neu
 DUFLOS-Bernard Maurice, age 54. On August 17. Adored husband and best friend of Bertille. Loving father extraordinaire of Baptiste. beloved son-in-law of Arlette Boissiere and Pierre Michel of Nantes, France. He died peacefully in our arms and will live forever in our hearts. Services at Ch
 EINWOHNER-Seymour Arthur, 81, died August 17, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Joan Einwohner; his daughter, Sara Giulietta Einwohner, of Cold Spring, N.Y.; his sister, Ruth Zavitkovsky, of the Hebrew Home for the Aged, Riverdale, N.Y.; and his brother and sister-in-law, Henry and Helene W
 GROB-Stephen Joseph. Died August 17, 1999, age 83, Los Angeles, CA. Born Oct. 17, 1915, NYC. Charming, warm, life-affirming, lover of books, music, fine food and a wonderful family man. He will be deeply missed by his wife of 58 years, Annette Kreisler Grob, his children, Betsy and Steve Gr
 KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourn the loss of our esteemed friend, Philip M. Klutznick, an Honorary Member of Tel Aviv University's Board of Governors. Through his generosity, guidance and vision, he was instrumental in the establishment of the University
 OTTO-Richard. On August 18, 1999. Beloved husband of Maria. Cherished father of Jonathan Otto, Lauren Otto Rosencranz, Jennifer Otto Klein, Regan Otto, Tiffany Otto, Dylan Otto and Karina de Brabant Brignone. Loving grandfather of Lily and Thomas Rosencranz. Dear brother of Linda Otto Lands
 ROSS-Gilbert I., Col. Retired U.S. Army. Died August 16, 1999 at age 97 at his home in Rye, NY. Col. Ross was born in New York City on March 24, 1902 to Gustave C. and Caroline Fleischman Ross. He grew up in New Haven, CT. In 1923 he graduated from Sheffield Scientific School of Yale Univer
 SAMBER-Stanley. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, Stanley Samber, and extends heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas President Martin Kay       
 TESSLER-Benedict. Died on August 11, 1999, in Palm Beach, Florida. He was born in Newark, NJ in 1908 and lived in Maplewood, NJ. His wife, Esther Lilien Tessler, survives him. They were married for 58 years. Additional survivors are his sons, Mark Tessler, of Maplewood; Alan Tessler, of Phi
 Sir Hugh Casson, a British architect who served as president of the Royal Academy of Arts, designed the interiors of royal family residences and in later years taught Prince Charles the techniques of watercolor painting,  died on Sunday in London. He was 89. A man with a winning per
 Edward L. Morgan, a former White House lawyer who in 1974 pleaded guilty to participating in a plan to create a fraudulent $576,000 tax deduction for President Richard M. Nixon, died on Aug. 6 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 61. The cause was heart failure after a long illness, The A
 Frederic Hsieh, the entrepreneur who used enticements of a ''Chinese Beverly Hills'' to turn a Los Angeles suburb into the first American city with an Asian majority , died on Aug. 8 while on vacation in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 54 and lived mostly in Hong Kong. The cause was a stroke
 Hanoch Levin, Israel's leading playwright, who spent more than three decades trying to strip the nation of self-congratulatory armor and force it to examine what he considered its hypocrisy and self-delusion, died on Wednesday of bone cancer. He was 56. Although his first plays caus
 BADIN-Alexander. A physician and writer. On August 17, 1999 after a long and valiant battle with cancer, in Manhattan. Survived by his wife, Floria Constant Badin and his daughter Roxana Badin. Private funeral was conducted on August 20, 1999. A memorial service will be announced at a later
 DUFLOS-Bernard Maurice, age 54. On August 17. Adored husband and best friend of Bertille. Loving father extraordinaire of Baptiste. beloved son-in-law of Arlette Boissiere and Pierre Michel of Nantes, France. He died peacefully in our arms and will live forever in our hearts. Services at Ch
 EMANUEL-Joseph. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a cherished longtime friend and respected member of the community, whose deep commitment to Jewish education perpetuated the legacy of his distinguished family at YU and our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Semin
 GUREWITZ-Herbert. Of Suffern, NY. A retired member of the English Department of Spring Valley High School, died August 17 after a brief illness. He was 86 years old and lived for more than 25 years in Rockland County. Upon his retirement, Mr. Gurewitz, a lifelong activist, continued his inv
 HOWARD-Harold, Paul. On August 19, 1999 after a valiant battle with cancer. Vice President of Bear Stearns. He was a sergeant in The U.S. Marine Corps. Beloved son of the late Rose and Harry Howard. Cherished brother of Roslyn Madsen and Loretta Buscarino. Devoted uncle of James Buscarino a
 KALKER-Harry. 97, of Boca Raton, Florida and South Street, Williamstown, Massachusetts, passed away at home, Wednesday, August 18, 1999, after a period of failing health. Born in Malden, MA on June 15, 1902, he was the son of Abraham and Ida (Katz) Kalker. He attended schools in Malden, gra
 MORSE-Julius P., 93, at his Brooklyn home, August 7, 1999. A lover of words, music, science, mathematics, and astronomy, he was a professional photographer and offset lithographer. He became an enthusiastic folk dancer, and an active member of the Senior Citizens League of Flatbush. He once
 OTTO-Richard. On August 18, 1999. Beloved husband of Maria. Cherished father of Jonathan Otto, Lauren Otto Rosencranz, Jennifer Otto Klein, Regan Otto, Tiffany Otto, Dylan Otto and Karina de Brabant Brignone. Loving grandfather of Lily and Thomas Rosencranz. Dear brother of Linda Otto Lands
 POPPER-Walter L. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Walter L. Popper, a graduate of the Class of 1940. He served CCNY with unwavering dedication and passion, inspiring many with his boundless energy, vision and generosity. On behalf of the City College community, I wish to e
 ROSS-Gilbert I., Col. Retired U.S. Army. Survived by his wife Loretta Kerwin Murtagh Ross; by three children and three step-children: Gilbert H. Ross, Robert F. Ross, Carol Ross Moran, Robert Murtagh, Cathy Murtagh Seumenicht, and Barbara Murtagh LaMarte, Other survivors: five grandchildren
 STERNBERG-S. David, M.D. Dear husband and best friend of Shirley. Very proud and loving father of Jean (Andy), Richard (Judy). Grandfather of Michael and Emily Krakoff. Brother of Ann Zinchuk of Hyannis, Ma. and the late Leo Sternberg. Loved by his niece, nephews, family, friends, patients 
 Richard W. Jennings, who helped popularize the study of securities law in United States law schools and helped export concepts of market regulation to the postwar societies of Japan and Germany, died at his home in Piedmont, Calif., on Aug. 9 after a brief illness. He was 91. At his
 Charles Samuel Joelson, a five-term Congressman from New Jersey who is best remembered for an  amendment that spared thousands of school libraries in 1969, died Tuesday at CentraState Medical Center in Freehold Township, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Freehold. Mr. Joelson, a Democrat 
 Donald Louis Mason, an F.B.I. agent whose fascination with art inspired him to create a loosely organized unit within the bureau's major theft squad in New York that became the scourge of art thieves in the 1970's, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Haworth, N.J. He was 74. The cause wa
 Dr. Robert Byck, a psychiatrist and brain researcher at Yale Medical School who in 1979 gave Congress an early warning that the United States faced an epidemic of smokable cocaine, died on Aug. 9 in a Boston hospital. He was 66 and lived in Gilford, Conn. The cause was complications
 Dr. Michael Sveda, a chemist who invented cyclamates, a noncaloric sweetener that became widely popular and then was banned by the Government as a possible carcinogen, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 87. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, sai
 REED-Adrian P. 68, farmer and philanthropist, died peacefully at his home, Lands End Farm, in Centreville, Maryland, Monday, August 16. The cause was cancer. Mr. Reed was long associated with local charitable causes and farm land stewardship. He was a dedicated conservationist and avid prot
 SANDS-Manny. Suddenly, on August 18, 1999. Beloved husband of Lucille; loving father of Patricia and Jeffrey; cherished grandfather of Jessica and Hillary; adoring father-in-law of Rita and the late Richard Smolick. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Hebrew Home For the Aged in Riverd
 Sir John Hale, a British historian who specialized in the Renaissance and was a former chairman of the National Gallery in London, died on  Aug. 12. He was 75. The cause was not announced, The Associated Press reported, but he had been partly incapacitated by a stroke in 1992.      
 Donald E. Degnan, an advertising executive who helped guide the sport of competitive croquet through a period of extraordinary growth in the late 1980's and early 1990's, died on Aug. 7 while on a business trip to New Orleans. He was 76 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., and Westhampton Beach, 
 Douglas DeWitt Bazata, who served with the United States Office of Strategic Services behind enemy lines in France in World War II and later became an artist, died on July 14 in his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88. The death of Mr. Bazata was belatedly reported to The New York Ti
 Mario Vespa, a cruise industry executive, died on Aug. 10 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a lengthy illness, a business associate, Antonio Cosulich, said. He was 93. Mr. Vespa, who was born in Savona, Italy, was a captain in the Italian Navy during World War II, but during t
 ABBEY-Henry. We lost a dear friend who enriched our lives. Our love and comfort to his sweetheart Susan. How very much we will miss you, Henry. Joyce and Stan Goodman       
 ABRAMS-Stanley L., of Syosset, NY and Tampa, FL, on August 18th, 1999 after a long illness. He was the beloved husband of Gloria. Cherished father of their children, Karen Walczuk and son-inlaw, John Walczuk, of Syosset, NY, Andrew Abrams and daughter-in-law, Claudia Abrams, of Irvington, N
 BASKAS-Morris Jack, D.D.S. Of Bronxville. World War II veteran, Army Air Corps. A graduate of LIU, Brooklyn, and NYU College of Dentistry. Practiced dentistry in New Rochelle for over 40 years. A member of Alpha Omega Dental Fraternity. Volunteer Teaching Attending, Department of Dentistry,
 CHESTER-John. The Medical Staff, Board of Directors, and Administration of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center mourn the passing of our dear and beloved colleague and friend, John Chester. A member of the Board of Directors, his wise counsel and concern for the hospital will be deep
 DRAYER-Steven Jay, age 44, passed on August 17, 1999. The family of Steven Drayer wishes to express their gratitute to all who have given their sympathies. Though his stay was short, he will long be remembered by his parents, sister, brother-in-law, nieces & nephews, uncles and cousins, fri
 HOVEY-J. Allan, Jr. 77, of Washington DC and Greenspring, WV, formerly of New York City, of a heart attack on July 21, 1999. Former Executive Director, American Committee on United Europe, former Vice President, Radio Free Europe, retired International Relations Specialist, Government Accou
 KAHN-Harry. 82, of New York City and Truro, MA, after a brave battle with congestive heart failure and pneumonia, on August 20, 1999. A retired partner of Neuberger & Berman, he was the husband of the late Margery Kahn. He is survived by his daughter Dr. Jenny Elizabeth Kaufmann; son in-law
 MASTERS-Charles Day. Age 70, died peacefully at his home in East Hampton, CT, August 19, 1999. Born in Pawhuske, OK. Longtime resident of Great Falls, VA, and founder of the USGS's World Energy Resources Program. He is survived by his wife Anna Ruth (nee Sandin), his brother John, one son, 
 MILLER-Sylvia. The partners and staff of Bloom Hochberg & Co., CPAs, mourn the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed partner, Michael Miller. We pray he and his family will find solace in her memory and continue to serve the Jewish people with good deeds and loving kindness.       
 OLLSTEIN-Mark Edward. 31, noted NY Hilton chef, lost his courageous battle with leukemia on 20 August, 1999. A graduate of Penn State University and the Culinary Institute of America. Mark gifted boundless love, strength, smiles and cuisine to an army of friends and family. Mark is deeply m
 OTTO-Richard. We join Maria, Richard's children and Richard's many friends in mourning his untimely passing, especially noting his unparalleled will to overcome and persevere. After 50 years of friendship, I will sorely miss Richard's wit and company. His graceful and handsome presence will
 ROTHSTEIN-Mortimer M. Age 85. On August 20, 1999. Adoring husband of the late Toby. Loving companion of Jessie Lefer. Beloved and respected father of Sharon Rothstein and Leslie and Stephen Rochlin. He loved his grandchildren Jonathan and Laurie Rochlin, Adam and Amy Rochlin with all his he
 SHAFER-Sid John, MD. Age 82, well-known and prominent orthopedic surgeon. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Hamilton Shafer; dear father of Philip H. (Antoinette Stewart) Shafer and Lea (Craig) Crawford; loving grandfather of Ashley and Caroline; fond brother of Frances (the late David) Am
 STERNBERG-S. David, M.D. Dear husband and best friend of Shirley. Very proud and loving father of Jean (Andy), Richard (Judy). Grandfather of Michael and Emily Krakoff. Brother of Ann Zinchuk of Hyannis, Ma. and the late Leo Sternberg. Loved by his niece, nephews, family, friends, patients 
 SZOKE-Klara. Our heartfelt condolences to John Szoke, President of John Szoke Editions, on the loss of his beloved mother, Klara, in Budapest, Hungary. Susan, Suzanne and Ann John Szoke Editions, NY, NY       
 THROWER-Fred M., of Greenwich, CT, on August 16th, 1999 of natural causes at the age of 89 in Greenwich Hospital. Born July 15th, 1910, he grew up in Tampa, FL. He lived most of his working life in NYC and Greenwich. Witnessing and contributing to the birth of television, his career in broa
 PLANTAGENET-Richard, King of England, killed in battle by treason, liabled by history. He merits our staunch loyalty and remembrance. The Richard III Foundation, Inc., PO Box 3381, Wallington, NJ 07057, www.richard111.com PLANTAGENET - Richard. Re member before God, Richard III, Kin
 Alfons Bach, a versatile modern designer of tubular steel furniture and other objects whose work was included in exhibitions of contemporary American industrial art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Pensacola, Fla. He was 95 and had lived in Pensacola 
 Leo Castelli, the New York art dealer who played an extraordinary role in shaping contemporary American art and fostering international acceptance of painters like Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Roy Lichtenstein and Frank Stella, died on Saturday night at his Manhattan home. He was 91. 
 COX-Larry ''Ree.'' Age 57, of Manhattan, New York, died Wednesday. He was affiliated with the New York Metropolitan Opera Company. He is survived by two sisters Judy Cox Barker and Stephanie Combs, one brother Dan Cox. Funeral service Tuesday, at 10 AM, at Wilson-SchrammSpaulding Funeral Ho
 GERSTL-Theodore. Known to most as ''Teddy'' or ''Uncle Teddy.'' Died on Saturday, August 21, 1999, at the age of 87. He is survived by his loving wife of 65 years, Dorothy Gerstl, his daughter Lynne Pariser, his son Robert Gerstl and his wife Karen Gerstl, his two grandsons Michael Pariser 
 KAHN-Harry. A modest man of great heart, liberal mind and broad intellectual interests. We will miss him. The Editorial and Advisory Boards of Partisan Review Edith Kurzweil, William Phillips and Joanna S. Rose       
 McMAHON-Stanton D. Age 82, of Jamesburg, NJ, formerly of Larchmont, NY, died on August 22, 1999. Attorney in NYC for many years. Husband of the late Katherine Beha McMahon. Survived by his daughter Mary Katherine Hawryluk, son-in-law Richard J. Hawryluk, two grandsons David and Kevin Hawryl
 MILLER-Brian, Cantor. 43. Died August 17, 1999, in Roxbury, NJ. Cantor Miller is survived by his parents Gertie and Hime Miller; sister Rosalee Krawitz and Melanie Godfrey and brother Dr. Steven Miller. Funeral services will be held Monday, August 23, at 10 AM, at Temple Kol Emeth in Mariet
 RIMSKY-Joseph. The Board of Governors and Members of Willow Ridge Country Club sadly note the passing of Joseph Rimsky, a distinguished member of this club. Our deepest condolences are offered to his wife Esther and to their entire family. Nathan Adler President, Board of Governors       
 STERN-Mark. The Queens Jewish Center of Forest Hills, NY, expresses a profound sense of loss and sorrow at the passing of one of its pillars, Mark Stern, of blessed memory. While never holding any official office, he was profoundly involved in every aspect of communal life. He will be terri
 Peter Bernard Terenzio, a former administrator of Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan who also led the American Hospital Association, the New York State Hospital Association and the New York City Public Health Association, died on Aug. 12 in Naples, Fla. He was 83 and also lived in Madison, Con
 Wilbert Jean Oliver, whose 1973 Federal lawsuit had the practical effect of forcing funeral homes throughout the nation to provide equal services to blacks and whites, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Marksville, La. He was 89 and lived in Mansura, La. Mr. Oliver sued the Escude Fun
 Guy Durosier, a versatile Haitian singer and organist whom Edith Piaf once called ''the living breath of Haiti,'' died on Thursday at his home in Bothell, a suburb of Seattle. He was 68. The cause was complications from pulmonary cancer, said his son Robert. In a career more
 John S. Gottschalk, a director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in the 1960's who oversaw developments like the first endangered species act, the banning of the pesticide DDT and the comeback of the whooping crane, died on Aug. 13 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86.      
 BLACKMAN-Samuel W. Professor of Organic Chemistry at Yeshiva University, Research Chemist at Hoffman LaRoche and Burroughs Wellcome (now GlaxoWellcome). B.A. Cornell University, Ph.D. Polytechnic University. His father, Jacob, founded Premo Pharmaceutical Laboratories, the first full item g
 BRAIGER-Armand Justin. Noury Goujjane, proprietor of One If By Land, Two If By Sea, announces the passing of the co-owner and founder of the restaurant, Armand Justin Braiger, eternally 39, in Florida, on August 20, 1999. The restaurant staff joins Mr. Goujjane in extending deepest sympathy
 CAITAK-Philip. The Caitak family and friends want to thank Philip Caitak for having graced our lives. We wish him the very best passage to better places to a better future life. Father, husband, friend, hero, companion.       
 CASTELLI-Leo. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, are deeply saddened by the death of long-time friend and Honorary Trustee, Leo Castelli. His commitment to an extraordinary group of contemporary artists, fostered through his gallery, is legendary and secured his unique plac
 COLANGELO-Gino. Our family and our companies and employees mourn the passing of a former colleague and partner, most of all a true friend for 35 years. He will be missed by all. Sandy Edelman, Judith West Edelman and the employees of Kennys and Westco       
 FIALKOW-Aaron D. 88. Of Bronx, New York. Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, Polytechnic Institute of New York. Beloved husband of the late Yetta Fialkow. He is survived by children Elaine, Lawrence and Diane, brothers, Morris and Lawrence and five grandchildren. He made significant contribu
 GLICK-Herbert. Passed away August 20, 1999. Beloved husband ofSylvia. Dear brother of Bernie and the late Paul. Loving father of Philip and David. Loving grandfather of Emily, Stacey and Gregg. A loving man, a friend to all, he will be deeply missed and always remembered.       
 GREENSTEIN-Rabbi Joseph, at age 86, passed away peacefully on Saturday, August 21st, 1999. He was a passionate Serrant of Klal Yisrael, as Rabbi, educator, and communal worker. He is mourned & remembered by his loving wife, Esta, children, Helen and David, grandchildren, great grandchild, a
 KAHN-Harry. A modest man of great heart, liberal mind and broad intellectual interests. We will miss him. The Editorial and Advisory Boards of Partisan Review Edith Kurzweil, William Phillips and Joanna S. Rose       
 KLUTZNICK-Philip. Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of its distinguished past chairman who served his country and community with great distinction. May his family be comforted among mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Malc
 MAZER-Deirdre. The Board and Staff of the Samuel Field/Bay Terrace YM & YWHA are deeply saddened by the loss of Deirdre Mazer, wife of Kenneth Mazer and niece of Dr. Noel Nathanson, esteemed Chair of the Executive Committee of our Board of Trustees. The Mazer family has a long history of ph
 NEUSTADTER-Morton. Beloved husband of Shirley. Loving father of Stanley, Michael and Amy. Brother of Ruth and the late Arnold and Mimi. Loving grandfather and uncle. Former President of Acme Folding Box Corp. Services 1:30PM Tuesday at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. NEU
 PALMER-B. Mitchell. A member of the California State Bar for 65 years, died August 21, at the age of 90. He is survived by his loving wife, Helen, to whom he had been married 60 years; his devoted children, Mark Palmer of Beverly Hills and Stephanie Palmer McClelland, and son-in-law W. Cart
 POPISH-Samuel. On August 23, 1999. Age 87. Beloved husband of Pearl. Loving father of Paul and Diane. Adoring grandfather of Stephen, Elena, Daniel, Thea and Hannah. Great-grandfather of Logan. He is also survived by his brothers Harry, Abraham and his sister Jean. He was a Workers Compensa
 RAPPAPORT-Gersten. On August 21, Newton, MA. Wife Herma, children Martha, Sam and Naomi; children-in-law Kirk, Kevin and Lauren; grandchildren Joshua, Kendra, Lily, Emily, and Max: We know and keep his love. He gave his gentle spirit and quiet learning to all.       
 SEILER-Maurice, 94. Several times U.S. bridge champion, lover of life and bridge, devoted husband to Lotti and Mildred C. Corben. He'll be missed. Donations to Cabrini Hospice.       
 SHADEK-Arthur J. Franklin & Marshall College mourns the loss of its Trustee Emeritus, former Board Vice Chair, and Honorary Alumnus. Mr. Shadek, husband of Katherine Flint Shadek, and father of F&M Trustee Laurence A. Shadek, Class of 1972, and Katherine Shadek Boyle, Class of 1981, greatly
 TRUPIN-Daniel Eugene. July 13, 1903-August 15, 1999. Worked in license department of New York, Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst. Moved to Berkeley 1972. Active in Gray Panthers. Published poetry, ''I Knock At Every Door'' (Agada Press). Survived by children, Bob and Joella, grandchildr
 ZIEMBA-Gary J. On August 22, 1999. Beloved son of Annette. Dear brother of Cheryl, Donna and Susan. Beloved life companion of Gary A. Dayton. He will remain close to our hearts and deeply missed for all time.       
 Keith Deamer (Tex) Banwell, a British Army World War II escape artist whose many exploits included serving as a double for Field Marshal Montgomery and twice facing a Gestapo firing squad and living to tell about it, died on July 25 in a hospital in North London. He was 80. His deat
 Donald E. Johnson, who headed the Veterans Administration under President Richard M. Nixon but resigned under pressure from Congress and veterans' groups, died on Aug. 10 at a hospital in Fredericksburg, Va., where he lived. He was 75. The cause of death was cancer, said his son, Ro
 Harold Brown Ehrlich, a former Republican Assemblyman from upstate New York whose persistence made kindergarten a fixture in New York public schools of the 1940's, died Aug. 11 at his retirement home in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 97. A Buffalo lawyer, he entered the State Legislatu
 Jack B. Jackson, a former chief executive of the J. C. Penney Company, the retailer, died on Aug. 12 in Dallas, the company announced. He was 83. Mr. Jackson began his 38-year career with Penney while still attending Austin College in Sherman, Tex., his hometown, and at one time he 
 Louis Ehrenkrantz, who started as a high school English teacher and became a prominent stockbroker and Wall Street commentator, died on Sunday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 65. The cause was cancer, his company said. He was a partner and the president of Ehrenkrantz King Nus
 Norman Wexler, a playwright and screenwriter whose credits included the scripts for ''Saturday Night Fever'' and ''Serpico,'' died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said Jane Kepner, a friend. Raised in Detroit in a blue-collar fam
 BRAVERMAN-Gabriel. Age 91. On August 24, 1999 in Philadelphia, PA. Violist with the Philadelphia Orchestra for 35 years. Survived by his wife Shirley, sister Bella Bookbinder, daughters and sonsin-law Bonny and Robert Israeloff, Stephanie and Michael Applebaum, four grandchildren and four g
 CASTELLI-Leo. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, are deeply saddened by the death of long-time friend and Honorary Trustee, Leo Castelli. His commitment to an extraordinary group of contemporary artists, fostered through his gallery, is legendary and secured his unique plac
 DAVEY-William, son of renowned American painter Randall Davey of Santa Fe and Florence McCormick of New York was a brilliant poet and writer, as well as a high-goal polo player and amateur astronomer. Presently Foreign Language Editor of The Long Story, his poems and stories have been publi
 DIAMOND-Chaim. On August 24, 1999. A truly unique individual who touched everyone he met in a very special way. Blessed with a brilliant mind, great love of Judiasm and old world charm, he will forever be missed by his loving family and friends. Funeral service today, 12 Noon at Sutton Plac
 EDWARDS-Philip E. Of Key Colony Beach, FL., Haverford, PA., and Avalon, New Jersey, died on Monday, August 23, 1999 at the age of 80. He is survived by his wife of 41 years, Doris Campbell Edwards, two daughters, Robin Marzelli and Jill Hoffman, M.D., four grandchildren, two sisters and two
 GANNETT-Elwood K. Of Teaneck, N.J., on August 23rd, 1999. Beloved husband of Lois (nee Butler), devoted father of Mary Gannett and Nancy Gannett Vickers and their spouses, Henry Zook and Gordon Vickers; loving grandfather of Zachary, Benjamin, Charles and Hannah; dear brother of Robert W. G
 GARDNER-Frederick C. Of Palm Beach, Florida. On August 22, 1999. Survived by his wife Claire Birdsall Gardner. Stepfather of Albert L. Wheeler and Constance Wheeler Geisler. Grandfather of Peter Geisler Jr., Missy Geisler, Chip Wheeler and Weston Wheeler. Born in Pawling, New York. Graduate
 GOULD-George K. Of Somers, NY. Died of cancer at his home on August 23. He was 84. He was a pioneer in the television videotape industry. He is survived by his loving wife Nancy, his devoted children Ronnie Beth Sauers and Jane Soodalter; sons-in-law Ron Sauers and Ron Soodalter and cherish
 KAHN-Harry. It is with great sadness that all of us at CEP will record the passing of Harry Kahn, a longtime member of the Board and past Chairman. Harry's enormous contribution to the CEP philosophy is endowed through the success the organization enjoys today; indeed, his strong sense of v
 MARION-Charles (Chuck), died August 22 in Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Gloria (Ganbarg), adored father of Freddie Blank, and Andy and Norman Klein, loving grandfather of Ivan, Jamie, David & Alex, dear brother of Elliot Marion and Harriet Klein. He was a dynamic and talented man. S
 MARK-Hyman. Beloved husband and devoted companion of Emma, beloved brother of Nathan (Blanche) and the late Julius and Dorothy. MARK-Hyman. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of our most dedicated pro-bono Trust and Estates attorney, and beloved husband of our indefatigable Honor
 McDONALD - Robert. The Gramercy Park Block Association is profoundly saddened by the death on August 24, 1999 of Robert McDonald, our Vice President and Director and a founding member. Bob was devoted to his loving wife, Sperella, and was a wonderful friend and a caring neighbor. Bob's extr
 ROSENWACH-Wallace. On August 23, 1999. Beloved husband of Alice, loving father of Andrew, Barbara and her husband Greg, adoring grandfather of Alissa and Henry. Devoted brother of Ruth Sabowitz, Janet Neiderbach and the late Felix Rosenwach. His deep devotion to family and friends was paral
 SOUSK-Philip. Of Queens. Died August 22. Survived by his wife Ethel, son Stephen, granddaughter Jenny and sister Jean. Funeral services will be held at Mt. Moriah Cemetery in Fairview, New Jersey at 12:30pm on August 26.       
 UNGAR-Gerald. On August 23, 1999. Beloved husband of Marilyn, loving father of Jane and Michael Larkin, and Mary Dee and Paul Bertozzi, cherished grandfather of Sarah Bertozzi & Steven Bertozzi. Brother of the late Gladys Weisbart and Stanley Ungar. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 10
 WORTHINGTON-Lorne R. Of New York City on August 21, at the age of 61. Iowa Insurance Commissioner 1967-71. President of NAIC, 1971. Preferred Risk Mutual Insurance 1972-82; President & CEO 1979-82. Executive Vice President of New Hampshire Insurance Company 1982-87. Managing Director Seabur
 Alexandre Lagoya, a guitarist  known for the elegance and textural clarity of his performances, both as part of a duet with his first wife, Ida Presti, and later as a soloist, died in Paris on Tuesday after what the Agence France-Presse reported was a long illness. He was 70 and lived in Pa
 Chester Brooks Kerr, a leading figure in both commercial and noncommercial book publishing, died on  Sunday in an extended-care facility in New London, N.H. He was 86. Mr. Kerr had previously lived in New Haven, said his son John. In a career spanning 30 years, Mr. Kerr work
 Constantine S. Nicandros, a former chairman of Conoco Inc., the multinational oil and gas company, and a leading patron of the arts in his adopted hometown, Houston, died Monday at a hospital in Houston. He was 66. The cause was cancer, according to a statement released by his son, 
 Fred M. Thrower, a former New York television executive who contributed the televised Yule log to New Yorkers' Christmas Eve celebrations, died on Aug. 16 in Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn.  He was 89 and lived in Greenwich. Mr. Thrower began his career as an advertising sale
 BRAIGER-Armand. The Board of Directors and staff of Greenwich House mourn the passing of Armand Braiger, longtime friend and generous supporter, who we fondly remember for his many contributions to Greenwich House and the Village community. Our condolences to his family and friends. Roy Lea
 CASTELLI-Leo. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Leo Castelli. No other art dealer has had such a profound effect in shaping the direction of contemporary art. He was a consummate gentleman known for his warmth, eloquence, and ge
 FUTERMAN-Michael. The Officers, Board and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of its respected Board Member, Michael Futerman. A generous and thoughtful man, he supported JDC initiatives around the world, especially in Israel, and his continuous
 GANNETT-Elwood K. Of Teaneck, N.J., on August 23rd, 1999. Beloved husband of Lois (nee Butler), devoted father of Mary Gannett and Nancy Gannett Vickers and their spouses, Henry Zook and Gordon Vickers; loving grandfather of Zachary, Benjamin, Charles and Hannah; dear brother of Robert W. G
 GRIGG-Dr. Ernest C. II. Beloved father and grandfather. Died early Tuesday morning at the age of 89. He had been battling cancer for more than 10 years. He is survived by his three grandchildren, Rhema, Christa and Ernie. Dr. Grigg was a career diplomat for the US Mission to the United Nati
 HEGAZY-Eihab, 31, director of Eihab Human Services, passed away on August 25, 1999 in a motorcycle accident. Survived by his parents, sisters, brother and friends. Services Thursday, August 26th at 10AM at Brex Funeral Home (718) 296-1313.       
 HYMAN-Lawrence. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus of English Lawrence Hyman. His nearly 30 years of teaching and service will be long rememebered. Vernon E. Lattin, President Brooklyn College       
 KAHN-Harry. The Board of Directors and staff of the National Child Labor Committee mourn the passing of their longtime friend and board member. A man of great dignity with a strong commitment to the well-being of all our nation's young people, he helped make sure that economic opportunity w
 LEVINE-Samuel. Beloved and devoted husband of Mildred. Loved and respected by his sons Larry, Peter and Martin, daughters-inlaw Gale, Leslie and Ellen. Adored grandfather of Estee, David, Cathie, Jeffrey, Rachel, Jesse and Joanne. He will be missed by us all. Services today 11:30AM at ''Bou
 RADDING-George S. On August 23rd, 1999, at the age of 83. He loved and was devoted to his wife of fifty-eight years, Jean, his sons, Ronald and Rory, his daughters-inlaw, Jin Suk and Nina, his grandchildren, Ryan and Christopher, and his art. Witty, charming, young in spirit, and a friend t
 RAND-Louis. Temple Beth Torah, Westbury NY, mourns the loss of our beloved member. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Harriet, children, stepchildren and grandchildren. May the family be comforted amoung the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Michael Katz Diane Wohl, President
 ROSENWACH-Wallace. On August 23, 1999. Beloved husband of Alice, loving father of Andrew, Barbara and her husband Greg, adoring grandfather of Alissa and Henry. Devoted brother of Ruth Sabowitz, Janet Neiderbach and the late Felix Rosenwach. His deep devotion to family and friends was paral
 SAMUEL-Stanley C. Dearest husband of Esta. Loving father of Steven and Joanne Samuel, Laurie and Harvey Smith, Robert and Jill Samuel. Adoring grandfather of Allison. May he rest in peace. Service on Friday, at 12noon at Munson-Lovetere Funeral Home, Southbury, CT.       
 SMITH-Elsworth J. of Forest Hills, NY on August 24, 1999. Devoted father, scholar, intellectual and radical thinker. He was deeply loved and will be forever in our hearts. Evan, Chris and family.       
 TROY-Sidney. Of New York City, N.Y., died on August 24, 1999. Sidney was a devoted, indulgent and loving father to his youngest children, Jamie and Matthew. He cared for and was attached to his children, Robert, Mark, Cythia, and Bruce Abrams. Sidney treasured the love of his eldest childre
 UNGAR-Gerald. We will sincerely miss you. A great loss to all who knew him. Henry and Shirlee Benach and Dorian and Bud Lichten       
 WHITEHEAD-Joseph M. Of Dorset, Vermont, died in his home on August 25th, 1999, after a brief illness. He graduated from the Storm King School and his beloved Williams College, Class of 1937. He was president of Whitehead and Alliger Paper Company, which became Andrews Nelson Whitehead. He w
 YEE-Robert. Formerly of Williston Park, Long Island, on August 23rd, 1999. Beloved busband of Geraldine M., devoted father of Maedine Yee and Robert Yee and his wife Melissa. Loving grandfather of Rebecca, Laura and William. Member of Mineola Lodge #       
 David Graham, who as an Oxford undergraduate in 1933 played a key role in the student debating society's much-denounced and long-remembered vote against fighting for ''King and Country,'' died on Aug. 12. He was 87. The death of Mr. Graham, who worked later for the British Broadcast
 Dr. Charles Davis Hollister, a marine geologist who expanded the knowledge of ocean bottom currents and deep sea storms, died on Monday in Wyoming on a family vacation. He was 63 and lived in Falmouth, Mass. A mountaineer, Dr. Hollister fell while climbing boulders on a hike  and su
 BEER-Walter E., Jr. was born in 1904 and died in his Brooklyn Heights apartment on August 21. His marriage of 70 years to Florence Fay Beer ended with her death last summer. He was the beloved father of John and David; grandfather of Thomas, Amy, Jeffrey, Elizabeth and Andrew; greatgrandfat
 CASTELLI-Leo. The American Foundation for AIDS research (amfAR) mourns the passing of Leo Castelli, a driving force in the creation of Art Against AIDS, a decade-long project that raised vital funds for AIDS research. Castelli generously donated his time, energy and expertise to galvanize t
 DIAMOND-Chaim. Touro College mourns the passing of Mr. Chaim Diamond, a longtime member of its Board of Trustees. He was a man of vision and incandescent intellect and personality who survived the Holocaust to build a successful new life in this country. Mr. Diamond served with distinction 
 FEIDEN-Joseph. Beloved husband of the late Jewel Eliasberg Feiden. Cherished father of Margo Feiden, owner of the Margo Feiden Galleries Ltd. Died August 26, 1999 at the home of his daughter after a long illness. Brother of the late Raymond Feiden, Martin Feiden and Sally Baker. Loving fath
 GROUP-Jay Martin on August 25, 1999 in Somerset, NJ. Adored husband and best friend of Lenore. He is mourned by his children, Mitchell, Richard and Matthew, daughters-in-law, Kathy, Gail and Erika, grandchildren Alexander & Sara, brother Herbert and sister Penny, uncle to Mark. His extraord
 KAHN-Harry. His was a lifetime commitment to international understanding and social justice. He was a man of all seasons. We are immensely grateful for the creative time and leadership he gave so generously to us. May Ruth, Jenny and his beloved family be consoled by the mourning of so many
 KURTZ-Leon. Of Kiamesha Lake, NY, died August 25, 1999 in Florida. A retired principal of PS 95. Survived by his wife Sylvia Kurtz at home, one son Evan Kurtz and his wife Livia, one daughter Ellen Schroeder, one granddauther Heather Schroeder,one sister Janet Zinner, several nieces and nep
 ORENSTEIN-Leo L., M.D. Died August 25, 1999 at age 93. Loving father of Jane and Joe Meyer, Reed and Arlene Orenstein & Dr. Mayer Liebman. Grandfather of Sam, Marnie and Ben Liebman & Jillian Orenstein. Great grandfather of Yahuda Liebman. Husband of the late Beatrice, his reason for living
 RADDING-George S. On August 23rd, 1999, at the age of 83. He loved and was devoted to his wife of fifty-eight years, Jean, his sons, Ronald and Rory, his daughters-inlaw, Jin Suk and Nina, his grandchildren, Ryan and Christopher, and his art. Witty, charming, young in spirit, and a friend t
 ROSENWACH-Wallace. The officers, trustees and members of Temple Emanuel of Great Neck mourn the loss of congregant Wallace Rosenwach, who served as a distinguished member of the board of trustees. He demonstrated his belief in the purposes of the synagogue through his generosity and wise co
 The Rev. Mario Zicarelli, a Roman Catholic priest whose parishioners protested his transfer out of the Bronx in 1972 after he publicly supported secular education, died Aug. 25 in a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was complications of a stroke. He had most recently been
 HASLUN-Norman E. Jr. Of Park Ridge, NJ, age 69, lost his brave struggle against cancer on August 26, 1999. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Dundorf). Loving father and golf partner of Norman III. Much-loved brother of Marjorie H. Leonard and dear stepfather of Kristine Parry and Robert and D
 MILTON-Arnold T. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Sherrill and his family. Jay M. Rosen, President Corey B. Rabin, Secretary MILTON-Arnold. Congregation 
 ORENSTEIN-Leo L., M.D. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine and the NYU MEdical Center mourn the passing of Leo L. Orenstein, M.D., Clinical Professor of Psychiatry. A 1934 graduate of NYU School of Medicine, Dr. Orenstein was a member of the School's faculty for over sixty years
 SMITH-Lester, of Waterford, NY, formerly of New York City. Proud ex-USMC, his humor and intellect appreciated by many. Always there when you needed him. Husband of the late Barbara; father of Bruce, Susan and Randy. Graveside service 11AM Sunday at Knollwood Park Cemetery, Ridgewood, Queens
 Raymond Vernon, who helped shape the postwar system of international trade as a Government official and influenced thinking about the global economy as a scholar, died on Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Heidi Vernon.      
 Dr. George T. Harrell Jr., founding dean of the medical colleges at both the University of Florida and Pennsylvania State University, died on Thursday at Duke University Hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 91. Dr. Harrell came to the University of Florida in 1954 to design and develop t
 Harry Kahn, a retired New York investment adviser, art collector and philanthropist, died on Aug. 20 at Lenox Hill Hospital. A resident of Manhattan's Upper East Side and Truro, Mass., he was 82. The causes were pneumonia and congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Ka
 BEER-Walter E., Jr. was born in 1904 and died in his Brooklyn Heights apartment on August 21. His marriage of 70 years to Florence Fay Beer ended with her death last summer. He was the beloved father of John and David; grandfather of Thomas, Amy, Jeffrey, Elizabeth and Andrew; greatgrandfat
 BERLOWE-Jay B., MD. A long time resident of Cold Spring Harbor, NY, passed away on August 12, 1999 at the age of 72. A graduate of Allegheny College, he completed medical studies at SUNY Downstate in 1952. After completing a residency and fellowship in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at Kin
 BRAIGER-Armand Justin. Noury Goujjane, proprietor of One If By Land, Two If By Sea, announces the passing of the co-owner and founder of the restaurant, Armand Justin Braiger, eternally 39, in Florida, on August 20, 1999. The restaurant staff joins Mr. Goujjane in extending deepest sympathy
 BROWNSTEIN-Larry, 61, died suddenly August 24, 1999. Survived by brother David. Will be missed by his many friends. Memorial to be held at later date.       
 CHEIFETZ-Dr. Leslie. Beloved husband, best friend of Karen, adored father of David, Matthew, and Samantha the bright lights of his life. Loved by family, friends and patients.       
 CORSO-Anthony J. On August 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father of Salvatore, Anthony and Stephanie Granite. Dear father-in-law of Mary, Suzanne and Thomas Granite. Devoted grandfather of Salvatore John, Christopher Anthony and Samantha Rose. Cherished brother of Domenica Guarin
 DRAYER-Steven Jay, age 44, passed on August 17, 1999. The family of Steven Drayer wishes to express their gratitute to all who have given their sympathies. Though his stay was short, he will long be remembered by his parents, sister, brother-in-law, nieces & nephews, aunt, uncle and cousins
 FEIDEN-Joseph. Beloved husband of the late Jewel Eliasberg Feiden. Most cherished father of Margo Feiden owner of the Margo Feiden Galleries Ltd. Died August 26, 1999 in his daughter's home after a long illness. Brother of the late Raymond Feiden, Martin Feiden and Sally Baker, loving fathe
 GARDNER-Frederick C. Of Palm Beach, Florida. On August 22, 1999. Survived by his wife Claire Birdsall Gardner. Stepfather of Albert L. Wheeler and Constance Wheeler Geisler. Grandfather of Peter Geisler Jr., Missy Geisler, Chip Wheeler and Weston Wheeler. Born in Pawling, New York. Graduate
 GUMPRECHT-Herbert. On August 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Nina Stutter Gumprecht. Father of Mona Stiernstedt, Susan Hjelm, Ivonne Sahlin, and Nicholas Gumprecht. Cherished grandfather of nine and great-grandfather of two. As a member of Seawanhka Corinthian Yacht Club, The Royal Yacht Squad
 HASLUN-Norman E. Jr. Of Park Ridge, NJ, age 69, lost his brave struggle against cancer on August 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Dundorf). Loving father and golf partner of Norman III. Much-loved brother of Marjorie H. Leonard and dear stepfather of Kristine Parry and Robert and D
 KAHN-Harry. Harry Kahn's heart was immense and it was in all the right places. He was a brilliant economist who cared deeply about how people are influenced by economic policy. He believed passionately in the first amendment and devoted himself to its protection. He revelled in the beauty t
 LENGYEL-Henry W. 79. Of Boca Raton, FL on Thursday, August 26, 1999. Beloved and adored husband of Eleanor (Krinsky) and the late Elizabeth Price, who died in 1977. Loving father of Stephen and Betsy Lengyel and Anne and Milan Vlajinac. Devoted grandfather to Alan and Holly Vlajinac, Brian 
 LEWIS-Myron S. Of Weston, Ct., founder and President of Lewis Laboratories, International Ltd., died on August 19th in Norwalk Hospital, Connecticut. He was a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army Signal Intelligence during World War II at which time he was in command of electronic equipment to inter
 MacLEECH-Bert, Ed.D. The Board of Trustees, the staff, and consumers of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities mourn the loss of Dr. Bert MacLeech. In 1957, Dr. MacLeech and his wife, Pearl, founded the Young Adult Adjustment Centers which later became YAI/National Institute fo
 RAPPAPORT-Gersten. On August 21, Newton, MA. Wife Herma, children Martha, Sam and Naomi; children-in-law Kirk, Kevin and Lauren; grandchildren Joshua, Kendra, Lily, Emily, and Max: We know and keep his love. He gave his gentle spirit and quiet learning to all.       
 WEXLER-Norman. On August 23, age 73. He died in his home in Washington, D.C. Private services were held Friday at the Plaza Memorial Chapel. He leaves two daughters, Erica and Merin, and a granddaughter, Liana. Gifts can be made in memory to the National Depressive and Manic-Depression Asso
 WILES-Harry. Women's League For Israel extend deep sympathy to Violet Wiles on the loss of her beloved husband Harry, and to the family. We will always remember him for his constant support. Harriet Lainer, President       
 WOLGEL-Milton Irving, M.D., died on August 26, 1999, at age 84. Graduate of Downstate Medical School in 1935, Milton completed his residency in Internal Medicine & Gastro Enterology at Beth Israel in 1939. As a World War II vet, he served in Europe as captain of the medical unit for the Mil
 ZIPSER-Arthur. 90, formerly of Manhattan, died Wednesday, August 18 in San Diego. Survived by his wife, Pearl; his son, David and two grandchildren, Nina and Karl.       
 Wallace Rosenwach, a master builder of the rooftop water tanks that decorate the skyline of New York City, died last Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on Long Island. He died after a brief illness, said his son, Andrew. The Rosenwach Tank
 Charles F. Hall, an engineer who supervised some of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's early scientific penetrations into deep space, died on Thursday in a hospital in Mountain View, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Los Altos, Calif. The cause was cancer, said John W. 
 Archbishop Helder Pessoa Camara of Brazil, an early proponent of liberation theology and an outspoken critic of his country's military dictatorship, died late on Friday in his home in Olinda, Brazil. He was 90. He served as Archbishop of Olinda and Recife, in the parched and impover
 CORSO-Anthony J. On August 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father of Salvatore, Anthony and Stephanie Granite. Dear father-in-law of Mary, Suzanne and Thomas Granite. Devoted grandfather of Salvatore John, Christopher Anthony and Samantha Rose. Cherished brother of Domenica Guarin
 FEIDEN-Joseph. Beloved husband of the late Jewel Eliasberg Feiden. Most cherished father of Margo Feiden, owner of the Margo Feiden Galleries Ltd. Died August 26, 1999, in his daughter's home after a long illness. Brother of the late Raymond Feiden, Martin Feiden and Sally Baker, loving fat
 LIEBMANN-Fred L., of Ossining, died August 27. Beloved husband of the late Vivian (Grau). Devoted son of the late Leon and Bella Liebmann. Beloved uncle. He was an architect and past President of the NY Society of Architects. He completed numerous commercial projects in Manhattan and throug
 SUSSMAN-Jack. Of New Marlborough, MA, died on August 29. Loving and much loved, he is survived by his wife, Constance (nee Alter); children, Leon and Michael and Marilyn Arnold; grandchildren, Anne and Peter; and sisters, Lenore and Ruth Laibstain. Services will be private. Donations may be
 Patrick Rance, a crusader for traditional British farmhouse cheeses and the author of the authoritative ''Great British Cheese Book,'' died on Aug. 22. He was 81. From his small shop in Streatley, near Henley-on-Thames, Mr. Rance waged a determined and ultimately successful battle t
 Fritz Shurmur, one of pro football's most innovative and successful assistant coaches never to become a head coach, died yesterday in Suamico, Wis., near Green Bay. He was 67 and was found in May 1999 to have liver cancer that had spread. From 1975 to 1998, Shurmur was a defensive c
 George Sugarman, whose animated, meandering polychrome sculptures are among the most inventive if least appreciated three-dimensional artworks of the early 1960's, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Sugarman belonged to a 
 Marc A. Lustgarten, a principal architect of Cablevision's growth in cable television and programming for the past two decades and the chairman of its Madison Square Garden subsidiary since 1997, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan.    
 Marvin Sands, chairman of Canandaigua Brands, the nation's second-largest winery, died on Saturday after a brief illness. Mr. Sands died of cancer at his home in Canandaigua, N.Y., according to the company. He was 75. Mr. Sands took over a small bulk wine producer in Cananda
 ANSORGE-Robert. Of New York City, Southbury, Ct. and Longboat Key, Fl., died August 29 at his home in Connecticut. Beloved husband of June (Leder), devoted father of Andrew and Laura (Koopman) Ansorge and Sally and Michael Mulvey and loving grandfather of Alexandra Pearl Mulvey. A gathering
 CANTOR-Milton. On August 29th my beloved brother, father, friend died. He was all things to me. He endured much. He will always be in my thoughts. Lydia Safane       
 CORSO-Anthony J. On August 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father of Salvatore, Anthony and Stephanie Granite. Dear father-in-law of Mary, Suzanne and Thomas Granite. Devoted grandfather of Salvatore John, Christopher Anthony and Samantha Rose. Cherished brother of Domenica Guarin
 DIKER-Bertram J. Died August 29, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Rhona. Loving father of Susan and son-in-law William. Devoted and loving grandfather of Alexandra. He is also survived by his brother Charles. Born in New York on April 6, 1931, he was the son of Helen Hoffner an
 JACOBS-Morris (Jack), 76, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Bayside, NY, on August 30th, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Frances Jacobs. Devoted father of Richard and Wendy. Loving grandfather of Lee and Matthew. Dear brother of Rhoda Jacobs. Donations in his name may be made to American Hea
 LEVY-David E. Of New York City and West Whately, Massachusetts, died in Northampton, Masscahusetts, August 27, 1999. Former partner of Ray JosephsDavid E. Levy Public Relations & later president of David E. Levy, Inc. He is survived by his beloved companion, Alan Damon. Memorial to be held 
 LUSTGARTEN-Marc A. On August 30, 1999. Marcia, his one true love whom he cherished for 30 years. Adored father of Andy Sam and Jessie. Loving son of Irving. Dearest brother of Brian and Scot. Treasured brother-in-law of Phyllis and Neil Koenig. Devoted uncle of Rebecca and Gaby. Beloved son
 ROMNEY-Andrew F. On August 30, 1999 at age 74. Beloved father of Michael and Mark Romney and Sharon Scott. Devoted grandfather of Andrew, Matthew, Theodore, Lewis and Hannah. Dear brother of Henry Romney. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Friday, September 
 SCHEINFELD-Joseph. On August 29, 1999 of West Orange, NJ. Owner and President of S. Scheinfeld and Son of S. Kearny, NJ for over fifty years. Survived by his wife, Sylvia; children, Steven, Hedy Klein and Debora Eisen; grandchildren, Joshua Laurano and Lauren Klein. Contributions to America
 SPECTOR-Norman A. Dr. 80. Of White Plains, NY died August 28, 1999. Survived by his wife, Edith (Cohen) Spector, his children, Janice, Joyce, Arnold and Stephen Spector, his brother, Benjamin Spector and 5 grandchildren. Funeral services were held Monday, August 30.       
 SUSSMAN-Jack. Of New Marlborough, MA, died on August 29. Loving and much loved, he is survived by his wife, Constance (nee Alter); children, Leon and Michael and Marilyn Arnold; grandchildren, Anne and Peter; and sisters, Lenore and Ruth Laibstain. Services will be private. Donations may be
 WHITLOCK-Emmet. On August 27, 1999 at the age of 80. He died of heart failure at Good Samaritan Hospital, Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Gloria. Father of Penny, Emmet, Jr., Frederick, William, Veronica Coleman and Valantina. Dear brother of Bache, Cynthia van Husan and Dorothy Eppelein
 Robert K. Mueller, an authority on how companies create and govern themselves and the former chairman of the management consulting firm Arthur D. Little Inc., based in Cambridge, Mass., died last Tuesday at a nursing home in Acton, Mass. He was 86. Mr. Mueller was chairman from 1977
