 Carl Levine, a former top home furnishings executive at Bloomingdale's whose exclusive imports and elegant model rooms played a large part in building the retailer's image as the hippest store in Manhattan in the 1960's and 70's, died on Friday in his Fifth Avenue apartment. He was 75.     
 Ed Paschke, a well-known Chicago painter whose neon colors, zombielike figures, acid-toned Kool-Aid formalism and love of urban subcultures brought a distinctively dark vision to Pop Art, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 65. The cause was heart failure, said his son, 
 Morris Gold, who helped make his mother's horseradish a household name, died on Monday in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Woodmere, N.Y. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Marc. He also had Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Gold was the oldest of three brothe
 DeSANTIS--Brian D. The members and staff of the Bergen County Cooperative Library System (BCCLS), based in Hackensack, NJ deeply mourn the sudden, tragic passing of our friend and colleague Brian DeSantis on Saturday, November 27, 2004 at the age of 37. He created the BCCLS computer service
 DONENFELD--Irwin of Westport, CT died Monday, November 29. A gallant fighter who grew weary. Born March 1, 1926, New York City, son of Gussie and Harry Donenfeld, adored husband of Carole, beloved father of Amy Ruth Donenfeld, Ben Allen Donenfeld, Mimi Rachel Foss and her husband Peter, Har
 FRIEDMAN--Gerald J., M.D. The Beth Israel Medical Center family and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, are saddened by the death of our dear colleague and generous supporter, Gerald J. Friedman, M.D. Dr. Friedman was a dedicated member of the Beth Israel medical staff for more t
 GOLD--Morris, 85, after a long battle with Alzheimer's Disease, has finally found serenity and peace when he passed away Monday, November 29th. He was surrounded by his family who loved him so much & whom he loved so much. Morris was one of the Founders of the 5 generation family business, 
 GOLDBLATT--Aaron, DDS, November 27, beloved husband of the late Florence (nee Hoffman) for 53 years; caring father to Susan Wolk (Larry) and Michael Goldblatt (Lana); devoted grandfather to Adam and Daniel Wolk, dear brother of Jack (Ethel) Goldblatt & Bea Goldblatt; resided and practiced d
 HOLD--Lucien A., III. 57, of NYC, died at his home on November 23 of complications from scleroderma. He was the general manager and talent coordinator for the New York Comic Strip. Memorial service is Thursday, December 2, at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64 Street, 2 PM.
 JERVIS -- Herman. Lawyer and educator. Died peacefully November 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 94 years old. Predeceased by his first wife Dorothy Bing and his second wife Eleanor Dudley. Beloved father of Steven and Robert, father-in-law of Susan & Kathe, grandfather of Alexa Jervis, 
 LIAN--James J. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Died at the age of 85 on November 30, 2004 in Brooklyn, after a long battle with Alzheimers disease and a brief hospitalization for pneumonia. Beloved husband of Josephine Azrak Lian. Devoted father of Regina M. Lian of Brooklyn, Marguerite Lian-Hajjar of St
 MAULSBY -- Allen Farish. Died peacefully on November 26, 2004. Senior Counsel and for many more years a former partner of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Son of the late David Lee and Maud Farish Holt Maulsby of Baltimore, MD. Beloved husband of Nancy S. Maulsby. Loving father of Monica Maulsby Be
 McKENZIE--Neil. The Bard College community mourns the passing of Neil McKenzie, who taught in Bard's Drama Department for 24 years. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Leon Botstein, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman       
 MEYERSON--Charles. To the Zoo Zoo Cracker of all times ...you were a big part of my life. I will never forget you. Jane and I extend our sympathy on the loss of this great man to his wife Pam, his children Donna, Larry, Randy, Scottie, Missy, Pam Jr., Jeff and Donna Marie, and to his sons-i
 RIVLIN--Moshe. Former National Chairman of Jewish National Fund. A dreamer and a doer for Peace and Mutual Understanding in Israel and the World. We were privileged to share some of his dreams, which led to the creation and construction of Reservoir Neve Ur to help in the mutual development
 RUSKIN--Elliott on November 28, 2004 at the age of 92. Cherished and devoted husband of the late Pearl (nee Segal). Beloved father of Steven and Nancy, Ellen and Lucious. Loving grandfather of Lauren, Kenneth, Dyana, Susan and Jason. Loving great-grandfather of eight. A proud graduate of Ci
 SCHLEIEN--Howard. It is with great sadness that the family and friends of Howard Schleien mark his passing on November 30th. His laughter and smile will be missed by all of us forever. He was the husband of the previously deceased Carol, the father of his beloved daughters Susie and Jackie 
 SCHWEITZER -- Viera. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Division of Cardiology, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Viera Schweitzer, beloved wife of our dear friend and colleague, Paul Schweitzer, M.D., Associate Chief of Cardio
 SCOTT--Dr. Will B. The Directors and Officers of Loews Corporation mourn the passing of Dr. Will B. Scott, husband of Gloria Scott, a valued member of our Board of Directors. He fought a valiant fight. Our condolences go to Gloria, his beloved spouse of 45 years and their entire family.    
 STEINBERGER--Dr. David. Sutton Place Synagogue records with deep sorrow the tragic passing of our devoted member and Religious School parent. Heartfelt condolences to his dear wife Elissa, cherished daughters Samantha and Erika and the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiene
 SWANSON--Robert Charles. Aged 79 years after a brief illness on November 30, 2004. He graduated Chouinard Institute and came to New York in 1950 where he pursued an illustrious career in advertising art and fine arts. He was a member of the American Watercolor Society and the Society of Ill
 TESSER--Charles, 84, November 28, 2004. A gentle man among men who loved and inspired love. 32 years of service at NBC. WWII Signal Corps photographer. Loved completely by his wife Doris; children Lew & Marjorie, Stu & Jan, Bonnie & Rich; cherished grandchildren Jason, Shauna, Melissa, Ben,
 VAMOS--Steven E., 84, of Manhattan, East Meredith, NY and Itaipava, Brazil, died November 29, 2004. Devoted husband of Aida Spielmann, beloved father of Mark N. Vamos, and doting grandfather of Elizabeth Eaton Vamos. Born in Budapest, he served in British Army Intelligence in North Africa, 
 VOGEL--George, DDS. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of New York, on November 30, 2004 at the age of 88. Beloved husband of Jean Stern Vogel and the late Ruth Vogel, father of Dr. Robert Vogel of NYC and Ronald Vogel of Bethsda, MD, father-in-law of Andrea and Eileen Vogel, loving grandfather
 WEST--Dr. Leonard J., on November 15, 2004, in Lakewood, CO. Columbia doctorate, college professor, prolific author of several books and over 100 articles, opera buff, polymath, Renaissance man. He will be deeply missed by his wife Doris and by children Kenneth (Lisa), Erica (David), Nicole
 Gunder Hagg, the Swedish runner who held the world record for the mile from 1945 until 1954, when Roger Bannister ran the first sub-four-minute mile, died Saturday at a nursing home in Malmo, Sweden. He was 85. His death was announced by a friend, Ulf R. Johansson, The Associated Pr
 Dr. Isidore S. Edelman, a versatile scientist and administrator who directed and helped found the Columbia Genome Center at Columbia University, died on Nov. 21 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was gastrointestinal cancer, said a son, Dr. Arthur Edelm
 Lauriston S. Taylor, who helped to establish the first national standard for X-ray exposure in the 1920's and led a series of government and independent organizations over the next 50 years that set radiation exposure standards for workers and the public, died on Nov. 26 in Mitchellville, M
 BIKOFF--Helen, died on November 29, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Devoted mother of Betty and David and his wife Patti. Dearest friend of Louis and Janet.       
 DeSANTIS--Brian D. The members and staff of the Bergen County Cooperative Library System (BCCLS), based in Hackensack, NJ deeply mourn the sudden, tragic passing of our friend and colleague Brian DeSantis on Saturday, November 27, 2004 at the age of 37. He created the BCCLS computer service
 DIAMOND--Thomas M., died peacefully at home in Wading River, NY with daughter Kerry Ann and wife Ann by his side. Born in the South Bronx to Catherine and the late Peter Diamond. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Memorial Mass Saturday December 4, 10:30am St. Raymond's RC Churc
 DONENFELD--Irwin of Westport, CT died Monday, November 29. A gallant fighter who grew weary. Born March 1, 1926, New York City, son of Gussie and Harry Donenfeld, adored husband of Carole, beloved father of Amy Ruth Donenfeld, Ben Allen Donenfeld, Mimi Rachel Foss and her husband Peter, Har
 FRIEDMAN--Gerald J., M.D. The Tufts University community is deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed friend and benefactor, Dr. Gerald J. Friedman. Dr. Friedman's colleagues in medicine and nutrition at Tufts and Tufts-New England Medical Center, one of its affiliated teaching hospita
 GLATMAN -- Paul. Beloved husband of the late Roslyn Glatman (Geller); father of Ann Rothberg, Arthur Glatman and his wife Patricia and Joan Glatman. Devoted and loving grandfather of Barry Rothberg, Arielle, Joseph and Tamar Glatman - Zaretsky, Rachel, Jonathan and Joshua Glatman. Attorney,
 GOLD--Morris, 85, after a long battle with Alzheimer's Disease, has finally found serenity and peace when he passed away Monday, November 29th. He was surrounded by his family who loved him so much & whom he loved so much. Morris was one of the Founders of the 5 generation family business, 
 KAPLAN--David. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of David Kaplan, son of Deborah and Aaron Kaplan. Deborah is our esteemed Past President. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. June Walker, Nat'l President       
 KESSEL--Morris C., age 101, on November 30, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Jeanette. Loving father of Paul Kessel. Cherished grandfather of Erika Kessel. Devoted uncle of Muriel Gayle. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Sunday, December 5, 9:30 AM at Frank E.
 LIAN--James J. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Died at the age of 85 on November 30, 2004 in Brooklyn, after a long battle with Alzheimers disease and a brief hospitalization for pneumonia. Beloved husband of Josephine Azrak Lian. Devoted father of Regina M. Lian of Brooklyn, Marguerite Lian-Hajjar of St
 O'CONNOR--Thomas D. 74, of Loudonville, NY, beloved husband of Nancy Breck O'Connor for over 49 years died Tuesday November 30, 2004 at Albany Medical Center. Born in Waterford he was the son of the late George E. and Annabel Gallagher O'Connor. He was raised in Waterford and attended Alban
 SKELTON--Michael. On November 30, 2004. Beloved husband of Mojgan. Loving son of Beverly and the late Harris. Loving brother of Ben, Becky and Penny. He will be deeply missed. Memorial service on Sunday, December 5, 5PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St. Reception to foll
 SWANSON--Robert Charles. Aged 79 years after a brief illness on November 30, 2004. He graduated Chouinard Institute and came to New York in 1950 where he pursued an illustrious career in advertising art and fine arts. He was a member of the American Watercolor Society and the Society of Ill
 VOGEL--George, DDS. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of New York, on November 30, 2004 at the age of 88. Beloved husband of Jean Stern Vogel and the late Ruth Vogel, father of Dr. Robert Vogel of NYC and Ronald Vogel of Bethsda, MD, father-in-law of Andrea and Eileen Vogel, loving grandfather
 Philippe de Broca, a surefooted comedic director of the 1960's New Wave in French filmmaking, who created gems like the frenetic adventure ''That Man From Rio'' (1964) and the anti-war ''King of Hearts'' (1966), died on Friday in Neuilly-sur-Seine, outside Paris. He was 71. The deat
 Prince Bernhard, a bon vivant and outspoken member of an ancient German royal family who became husband of one queen of the Netherlands and father of another, died yesterday at a hospital in Utrecht near Amsterdam. He was 93. The Royal House of the Netherlands said that in November 
 ADISE--Mark J. 56, of New York City, died peacefully December 1, 2004. Beloved partner of Gordon Day. Devoted son of Herbert and Ruth Adise. Dear brother of Steven and Caren. Loving father of Aaron and Beverly. Caring grandfather of Jake and Morgan. He was here too brief a time. His kindnes
 AVIADO--Domingo M., Sr., M.D. of Palm Springs, FL, formerly of Short Hills, NJ and Phila., PA. Beloved husband of Asuncion Guevara Aviado. Also survived by sons Carlos and his wife Doreen of Bowie, Md., Domingo Aviado and his wife Corazon Bahia of Dover Del, a daughter Maria Christina Kimbl
 GOUDKET--Bert. It is with deep sadness that the Officers, Board of Directors, and neighbors of La Coquille, Westhampton Beach, mourn the passing of our past President and dear friend Bert Goudket. We will miss his common sense and wise leadership. Our love and thoughts are with his beloved 
 JACOBS--Harold B. passed away on Thursday, December 2, 2004, at the age of eighty-three. Loving husband of Phyllis, cherished father of Richard and Wendy, adored grandfather of Lisa, Eric and Emily. Hal was the owner and CEO of the Hudson-Shatz Painting Company, headquartered in New York Ci
 JERVIS--Herman. The Board of Trustees and the Ethical Culture Fieldston School community note with sadness the death of Herman Jervis, class of '26, former Chair of the Board of Trustees. We extend heartfelt condolences to his sons Steven '55, Robert '58 and granddaughters Alexa '89, Lisa '
 KESSEL--Morris C., age 101, on November 30, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Jeanette. Loving father of Paul Kessel. Cherished grandfather of Erika Kessel. Devoted uncle of Muriel Gayle. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Sunday, December 5, 9:30 AM at Frank E.
 MEHLMAN--Marvin (Bob). Died November 30, 2004, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Beloved husband of the late Rosalie Langfelder Mehlman. Devoted father of William Meyer Mehlman (Merryl-Beth Wolfson Mehlman) and Daniel Mehlman (Margaret Shirk Mehlman). Adored and cherished grandfather of David Wolfson 
 PANTOWICH--Pearl, 90, December 2, 2004 in Illinois. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home and Hospital Lifecare System extends sincere sympathies to Stanley Pantowich, his wife Marcy, his sister Merle Pantowich Brown and the grandchildren and greatgrandchildren of t
 PROSKIN--Lucille H., on December 1, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Herbert. Devoted mother of David and his wife Jill, doting grandmother of Hayleigh and Alanna, sister of Alvin Hecker. Also survived by Michael Fabrikant. Services 10:45 A.M. today, at the Sanctuary of Abraham and Sarah, For
 SKELTON--Michael. On November 30, 2004. Beloved husband of Mojgan. Loving son of Beverly and the late Harris. Loving brother of Ben, Becky and Penny. He will be deeply missed. Memorial service on Sunday, December 5, 5PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St. Reception to foll
 Pierre Berton, a sometimes provocative journalist who became the most popular historian in Canada and a well-known television personality, died on Tuesday in Toronto. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, Mr. Berton's agent and television producer, Elsa Franklin, said. For
 Allen Farish Maulsby, a New York lawyer specializing in commercial law and complex antitrust litigation who was associated with the firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore for 57 years, died on Nov. 26 at a hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Old Greenwich. The cause was cancer
 Kurt S. Adler, who helped change the look of Christmas décor as a major importer of handcrafted ornaments and convincing artificial trees, died on Nov. 25 at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was heart failure, said his son Clifford. Mr. Adler also had Parkinson's disease
 GABRIEL--Bertram, Jr., of Santa Fe, died December 2, at 84. Formerly of Chappaqua and Bedford Village, NY. He served as an officer in the Army Air Corps during World War II for four years. Bert was active in the toy industry for many years in New York City, where he was born. He retired to 
 HENDLER--Samuel I., Esq. Prominent corporate and civil rights attorney whose life was dedicated to preserving and defending individual rights and liberties and making the world a better place for children. Sam was the longtime counsel and member of the Board of Directors of Aceto and Pneume
 JACOBS--Harold B. passed away on Thursday, December 2, 2004, at the age of eighty-three. Loving husband of Phyllis, cherished father of Richard and Wendy, adored grandfather of Lisa, Eric and Emily. Hal was the owner and CEO of the Hudson-Shatz Painting Company, headquartered in New York Ci
 MEHLMAN--Marvin (Bob). Died November 30, 2004, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Beloved husband of the late Rosalie Langfelder Mehlman. Devoted father of William Meyer Mehlman (Merryl-Beth Wolfson Mehlman) and Daniel Mehlman (Margaret Shirk Mehlman). Adored and cherished grandfather of David Wolfson 
 Harry Danning, an All-Star catcher for the New York Giants who played on three pennant-winning teams in the 1930's, died last Monday at a hospice in Valparaiso, Ind. He was 93. His death was announced by his daughter, Viktoria Voller. Playing for 10 seasons with the Giants, Danning 
 Lucien A. Hold, a comedy club talent booker and manager who helped discover and promote the early careers of New York comedians like Chris Rock, Jerry Seinfeld and Adam Sandler, died on Nov. 23 at his home in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause was complications of scleroderma, an auto-
 Matthew J. Troy Jr., a flamboyant former city councilman and Queens Democratic leader whose rising political star collapsed in the 1970's after he was convicted of tax evasion and stealing money from law clients, died on Friday at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 75 and li
 BONAMI--Rabbi David. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, a Hebrew and math teacher. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 CHEN -- David T.Y. Died peacefully at home on November 27, 2004. He was 84. Born in Shanghai, China, he was a longtime resident of Great Neck, NY. He received his BA at Chien Tung University in Shanghai and his MBA at Wharton School of Business, University of Pennsylvania, in 1951. He is su
 CONLEY--William H. (known as B.C.). On December 2, 2004. Cherished husband of Marion Roland-Conley. Beloved brother-in-law of Joan Roland, adored by all his friends in New York, Nantucket and patrons of J.G. Melon. Your legend will live on. A memorial service is planned for 11 am, on Decemb
 FRIEDMAN--Dr. Gerald J. Beloved husband of Dorothy, died peacefully at home on Thursday, November 25, at the age of 91. Son of the late Abraham and Flora, and brother of the late Samuel J. and Estelle Gervis. He received his BS at NYU College of Arts and Sciences, and his MD from NYU School
 GABRIEL--Bertram, Jr., of Santa Fe, died December 2, at 84. Formerly of Chappaqua and Bedford Village, NY. He served as an officer in the Army Air Corps during World War II for four years. Bert was active in the toy industry for many years in New York City, where he was born. He retired to 
 HENDLER--Samuel I., Esq. Prominent corporate and civil rights attorney whose life was dedicated to preserving and defending individual rights and liberties and making the world a better place for children. Sam was the longtime counsel and member of the Board of Directors of Aceto and Pneume
 HOLDEN--Randal. Of Reno, NV, on December 1, 2004. He was the husband of the late Dorothy Meyers Holden with whom he enjoyed many years as a resident of Larchmont, NY. He is survived by a daughter, Ann Holden Brady and her husband David of Chester, NJ, a son, Roger Holden and his wife Elizab
 ISAAC--M. Al. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Salvadori Center, City College, NY, deeply mourn the sudden, tragic passing of our friend and colleague, Al Isaac, on Wednesday, December 1st. He would have been 37 on Christmas Day. More than a dozen years ago, with our beloved Founder,
 JACOBS--Harold B. passed away on Thursday, December 2, 2004, at the age of eighty-three. Loving husband of Phyllis, cherished father of Richard and Wendy, adored grandfather of Lisa, Eric and Emily. Hal was the owner and CEO of the Hudson-Shatz Painting Company, headquartered in New York Ci
 KOPPELMAN -- Julius. The American Jewish Committee is profoundly saddened by the death of a gifted leader, treasured friend and generous benefactor, Julius Koppelman. Julius, an AJC Honorary Vice President, and his beloved late wife Dorothy were longtime members of the AJC family, serving o
 MEHLMAN--Marvin (Bob). Died November 30, 2004, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Beloved husband of the late Rosalie Langfelder Mehlman. Devoted father of William Meyer Mehlman (Merryl-Beth Wolfson Mehlman) and Daniel Mehlman (Margaret Shirk Mehlman). Adored and cherished grandfather of David Wolfson 
 OSBORNE--John Stuart, Jr., 63, of New York City and Salisbury, CT., died December 1, 2004. Beloved husband, father and friend. John Osborne was born February 2, 1941 in New York to John S. Osborne, and Elizabeth Beam Osborne, and was educated at the Hotchkiss School, Williams College and th
 RIVLIN--Moshe. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the loss of Moshe Rivlin, one of the great 20th century leaders of the Jewish people. As the scion of a renowned pioneering family he served Israel in many national and international bodies. He was a true Zionist, a statesman and a
 ROSENHOUSE -- Harvey. Journalist. Died December 1, 2004. Survived by two daughters and four loving granddaughters who will miss him dearly.       
 SAFFER--Charles Martin Jr. A devoted spouse to his surviving wife, Elizabeth, an ever supportive hand to his son, Martin, and loving family patriarch. Charles Saffer, the son of the late Charles M. Saffer and Helen (Ellen) F. Nevins Saffer, was born in Salem, MA on December 15, 1914 and die
 VEIT--Ivan, 96. His daughter Lenore Veit Gale, his six grandchildren, and their families were fortunate to have been graced for so many years by his gentle dignity, incisive intelligence, modesty, loyalty, chocolate mousse, dry wit, disciplined approach to gardening, and literate observatio
 WHITNEY--Gifford. The Allen-Stevenson School community mourns the loss of Mr. Gifford Whitney, father of Henry Payne Whitney '09. We extend our deepest sympathy to him and his family at this difficult time. Ronald S. Rolfe, President, Board of Trustees David R. Trower, Head Master       
 ZINBARG--Benson. December 3, 2004 at age 67, may his memory be for a blessing. Beloved husband of Joan. Cherished father of Nancy and Gadi Mimoun and Joyce and Steven Rosenthal. Dear brother of Deborah (Louis) and brother-in-law of Phyllis (Eric). Adoring grandfather of Michael and Bari and
 DOMASH--Norman. In memory of a man who combined the highest ideals, the keenest intellect and abounding love for his wife and family. His good nature and compassion will always be remembered. He was a true gentleman. His love for his grandchildren will be forever in their hearts; for his ke
 Matthew J. Troy Jr., a flamboyant former city councilman and Queens Democratic leader whose rising political star collapsed in the 1970's after he was convicted of tax evasion and stealing money from law clients, died on Friday at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 75 and li
 BECK--Franklin B. After a long illness. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Lois Garfinkel and Clifford Beck and father-in-law of Lester. Cherished grandfather of Auston and Dyllan Beck and Jilyenne Garfinkel. Graveside services Monday, 1:30 pm, at Westchester Hills Cemetery, Hast
 BIDDLE--Sydney Francis. Of New York, and New Preston, CT, died on December 4, 2004, at the age of 86. Born in Philadelphia, Sydney attended Harvard College before serving in the United States Navy from 1941 to 1945, when he was discharged as a Lieutenant Commander. Sydney went on to graduat
 CONLEY--William H. (known as B.C.). On December 2, 2004. Cherished husband of Marion Roland-Conley. Beloved brother-in-law of Joan Roland, adored by all his friends in New York, Nantucket and patrons of J.G. Melon. Your legend will live on. A memorial service is planned for 11 am, on Decemb
 GOLTZER--Harold. Former Associate Principal Bassoonist with the New York Philharmonic, died peacefully in his home in Carbondale, CO, on December 4, 2004. He was 89. Mr. Goltzer was preceded in death by his beloved wife of 52 years, Marcelle Cayton Goltzer, his brother, Irving and sister-in
 GREENE--Lawrence Gerard, Esq. 1913-December 3, 2004, NYC. Only son of Louis and Rachel Greene. Dearly loved and mourned by his daughter Anne Helen Greene Standring, son-in-law Rodney, grandsons Edward and Thomas, relatives and friends. Columbia Law School 1937. Author, five law books. Manha
 HAMILTON--Bill. New York freelance musician died peacefully on December 1, age 63. Beloved husband of Georgia Rose, father of Erika and Jason, stepfather of Calin and Ranulf. Service Cathedral of St. John the Devine, Thursday, December 9, 10:30 am. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory
 ISAAC--M. Al. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Salvadori Center, City College, NY, deeply mourn the sudden, tragic passing of our friend and colleague, Al Isaac, on Wednesday, December 1st. He would have been 37 on Christmas Day. More than a dozen years ago, with our beloved Founder,
 KOPPELMAN -- Julius. De cember 3, 2004. Husband of the late Dorothy. Father of Estelle Blumberg (Richard), Vicki Cabot (Howard), Marcia Moor (Colin), and Nancy Koppelman (Joel Klein). Brother of Miriam Sandlofer. Also survived by ten grandchildren. Funeral services will be held Monday, 10 a
 ZINBARG--Ben. Leadership matters. Ben Zinbarg, outstanding leader, Past President of United Jewish Federation of Greater Stamford, New Canaan and Darien, and Trustee of United Jewish Communities, worked tirelessly for our mission of caring about the entire Jewish community. Throughout his l
 BECK--Franklin B. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Franklin B. Beck, a treasured friend whose dedication and generosity has helped renew Jewish life in New York and around the world. We extend our deepest sympathies to Franklin's
 BIDDLE--Sydney Francis. Of New York, and New Preston, CT, died on December 4, 2004, at the age of 86. Born in Philadelphia, Sydney attended Harvard College before serving in the United States Navy from 1941 to 1945, when he was discharged as a Lieutenant Commander. Sydney went on to graduat
 CARBIN--Barney J,. Jr., 64, died unexpectedly on November 27. He was born in New York City on January 27, 1940. Son of Mary McKenna Carbin and Bernard Carbin Sr. He leaves behind his wife of thirty-five yers, Arline of Key Colony Beach., a brother John Corbin, sister, Susan Forbes, children
 COHEN--Martin. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of one of its founding professionals. ''Marty'' served with dedication in its Brooklyn division, as Rockland County Executive Director and and as National Field Director. We extend our sinc
 GALLO--Charles Philip. Born New York City June 3rd, 1934. Survived by his beloved wife, Marianne Treanoi Gallo of Roxbury, NY; and his sons Philip of FL. and Peter of N.C., his sister Jean Alessio, and eight grandchildren. A graduate of LaSalle Military Academy, 1952; Manhattan College, 195
 GREENE--Lawrence Gerard, Esq. 1913-December 3, 2004, NYC. Only son of Louis and Rachel Greene. Dearly loved and mourned by his daughter Anne Helen Greene Standring, son-in-law Rodney, grandsons Edward and Thomas, relatives and friends. Columbia Law School 1937. Author, five law books. Manha
 HENDLER -- Samuel. The Board of Directors of Keren Or, Jerusalem Center for Multi - Handicapped Blind Children, mourns the loss of our beloved friend and Board member, Samuel Hendler. Sam, a devoted charter member of the Board, cared deeply for the disabled children of Israel. May his memor
 PAUL--Michael B. Of Armonk, N.Y. died December 3, 2004 at the age of 50. Predeceased by his loving wife Sheila, he was the beloved husband of Amy, devoted father of Jared, Amanda, Chase and Olivia loving brother/brother - in - law of Lynda and Dan Greenberg and loving brother-in-law of Lesl
 SHARFMAN--Rabbi Solomon J. Young Israel of Flatbush, its members, friends and congregants, mourn with deep sorrow, the passing of its beloved Rabbi Emeritus, who faithfully and devotedly served as the spiritual leader of our Congregation for 45 years. He was a towering figure of modern Orth
 SHERMAN--Lewis. Beloved husband of Lori. Devoted father of Robert and Alison. Loving grandfather of Breanne and Brooke. Services at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Wednesday, 11:45AM. SHERMAN--Lewis E. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club are d
 WETTSTEIN -- Hyman of Spring Valley, NY and Lake Worth, FL. Beloved husband of the late Rosalie. Devoted father of Howard and Joel Wettstein and Ellen Sokol, and father-in-law of Barbara Wettstein and Monte Sokol. Cherished grandfather of Dipper, Jane, Jonathan, Eve, Katie, Max, Elsa and Be
 ZINBARG--Benson. It is with great sadness that we mourn the death of our beloved President and Founder Benson Zinbarg on December 4, 2004. Our hearts go out to his wife Joan, daughters Nancy and Joyce and their families. Officers, Board of Trustees and the professional staff of The Jewish C
 Dr. Shiing-Shen Chern, a mathematician whose seemingly purely abstract discoveries about the twistings of geometric surfaces have found wide use in physics and mathematics, died Friday at his home in Tianjin, China. He was 93. Dr. Chern also helped set up three mathematics institute
 Jay Van Andel, a co-founder of Amway who spun a soap-selling business in his basement into a $6 billion global sales giant and contributed millions to conservative political causes, died yesterday in Ada, Mich. He was 80 years old and died of natural causes, a family spokesman said.        
 BECK--Franklin B. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board and Administration of Parker Jewish Institute mourn the passing of our dear friend, Franklin Beck. Together with his wife, Shirley, and children, Lois and Lester Garfinkle, Franklin was a devoted advocate and supporter of the Institut
 BYRNE--Robert Atwell, Sr. Bank Executive Robert A. Byrne, a longtime member of the New York Financial Services and Banking industry, died Sunday at his home in Remsenburg, NY at the age of 77. His optimism, warmth, wit and loyalty endeared him to family, friends and colleagues alike. Born o
 FARR--Francis Bartow. Died peacefully after a long illness on November 21st. Loving husband to Susan; father of Reginald and Francis Bartow, Jr.; grandfather to Nicolas, Evan and Alexander; stepfather to Peter A. Melhado; brother to C. Sims Farr, and uncle to numerous nieces and nephews who
 GOLTZER--Harold. The New York Philharmonic notes with sadness the death, on December 4, of Harold Goltzer, 89, Associate Principal Bassoonist of the Philharmonic from 1958-1983. Mr. Goltzer, who studied at The Juilliard School on a New York Philharmonic scholarship, performed in various rec
 HANDMAN--Stephen, 78, on December 7, 2004. Beloved husband of Kay, loving father of Chloee, brother, uncle. V.P./Partner of Creative Lithography, Inc., he will always be remembered as one of the funniest and warmest individuals to have touched all those who came across his path in this glor
 SHERMAN--Lewis. Beloved husband of Lori. Devoted father of Robert and Alison. Loving grandfather of Breanne and Brooke. Services at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Wednesday, 11:45AM. SHERMAN--Lewis. The unthinkable has happened. The passing of our best friend L
 SPITZ--Sylvia Larkey, December 6, age 93. Mother of Louis and his companion Jane Berkowicz. Sister of Irving & Leonard. Tante Sylvia to nieces Patty Marmon, Susan Galatz, Lainie Schonberger. Friend to Fran ShaySedillo, Rebecca Gantcher.       
 VOGEL--William S. Of South Palm Beach, FL and South Orange, NJ. On December 7th at the age of 107. Beloved husband of Alice Mertha Richfield Vogel. Devoted father of William Edward Vogel and his wife Lynda Baccoli. Adored grandfather of Jane Vogel Brickell and Wendy Vogel Thayer, and greatg
 ZINBARG -- Benson. We mourn the untimely death of our dear friend and executive committee member. Ben was a leader in his community, nationally and in Israel. We will miss his passionate dedication, vitality and guidance. May Joan and the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and J
 Frederick Fennell, the master band conductor who founded the famed Eastman Wind Ensemble and raised band performance to an art form, died early Tuesday at his home in Siesta Key, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Fennell died in his sleep, his daughter, Cathy Fennell Martensen, said in an e-mail 
 BLUNT--James Philander, of Hadlyme and New York, NY, passed away December 1st. He is survived by two daughters Emily Victoria Nelson of Turners Falls, MA, and Susan Alexander of Cleveland, OH; a sister Phoebe Kurz of Sterling, VA; six grandchildren, seven great grandchildren. He also leaves
 BYRNE--Robert Atwell, Sr. Bank Executive Robert A. Byrne, a longtime member of the New York Financial Services and Banking industry, died Sunday at his home in Remsenburg, NY at the age of 77. His optimism, warmth, wit and loyalty endeared him to family, friends and colleagues alike. Born o
 COATES--Benjamin. Age 86 on December 7th, 2004 of Haverford, PA. Survived by his wife Nancy S. Coates. Also survived by his daughter Theo Coates and son Benjamin Coates, Jr. and two grandchildren. Funeral services will be Monday, December 13th, 11AM at The Church of The Redeemer, Pennswood 
 DIXON--Peter Thorpe, an investment banker, died on December 7, 2004, after a long illness. Born in NYC on March 3, 1930 to Palmer and Theodora Dixon, he graduated from St. Mark's School in 1947, Harvard Univ. in 1951, and Harvard Business School in 1953. While at Harvard he was President of
 ELKIN--Robert. It is with great sadness that we mourn the death of Robert Elkin, late of Swan Lake, New York, who died December 1, 2004. Robert was predeceased by his sister, Rosalind Elkin and his mother, Lillian Elkin and his father, Jack Elkin. A burial service will be held at Beth Moses
 FARR--Francis Bartow. Died peacefully after a long illness on November 21st. Loving husband to Susan; father of Reginald and Francis Bartow, Jr.; grandfather to Nicolas, Evan and Alexander; stepfather to Peter A. Melhado; brother to C. Sims Farr, and uncle to numerous nieces and nephews who
 FREEMAN--Elizabeth. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of The Jewish Home and Hospital Lifecare System extends its deepest sympathies to the Freeman family; parents and John and Josephine (Dodi), son David and wife Ellen on the passing of their beloved daughter and sister Elizabeth
 LEIB--George Bruce Eric. On Monday, November 8, 2004, Eric, loving son of G. Bruce Leib and loving brother of Cara Leib left us. He will always be with us.       
 REUBHAUSEN -- Oscar M. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York mourns the passing of Oscar M. Reubhausen, President of the Association, 1980-82. An outstanding lawyer, he was devoted to the Association, overseeing its reorganization and building renovation. Oscar was dedicated to
 SCHWEITZER--Melvin. Devoted and loving husband of Bernice. Father of Marc and Frank. Grandfather of Matthew, Zoe and Andrew. Mel Schweitzer was a guiding spirit and dedicated member of the East End Temple community. Services will be held at East End Temple, 245 E. 17th St., Friday at 11 AM.
 Ronald Keith Williamson, who left his small town in Oklahoma as a high school baseball star with hopes of a major league career but was later sent to death row and came within five days of execution for a murder he did not commit, died on Saturday at a nursing home near Tulsa. He was 51.   
 Cleve Gray, a painter admired for his large-scale, vividly colorful and lyrically gestural abstract compositions, died on Wednesday in Hartford. He was 86. The cause was a massive subdural hematoma suffered after he fell on ice and hit his head on Tuesday outside his home in Warren,
 Darrell Abbott, the beefy guitarist with the lightning-bolt-shaped guitar whose screaming solos for the band Pantera made him a heavy-metal hero known as Dimebag Darrell, was killed Wednesday night at a concert in Columbus, Ohio, by a rampaging gunman. Mr. Abbott, who was 38 and per
 Jackson Mac Low, a poet, composer and performance artist whose work reveled in what happens when the process of composition is left to carefully calibrated chance, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications
 Nathan Most, who in 1993 created the exchange-traded fund, died Dec. 3 at his home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 90. The cause was heart failure, said his son Stephen. Like mutual funds, exchange-traded funds represent a pool of investments in which people may buy shares. But 
 BISHOP--The Rev. Dr. John Wesley, 77, born November 6, 1927 in Kingston, New York, son of Bertrand Bishop and Emma Schoonmaker, died November 28, 2004. Among his many other achievements he received a B.A. from Yale University in 1950 and served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 1947-1949. Rev. 
 FLORY--Verdon on Wednesday, December 8, 2004. Loving son of Bertha and Perry Flory. Caring husband to Emily, and generous father to his two surviving sons, Christopher and Brian. His legacy as an artist and great human being shall live on. For information on services contact Riverside Memor
 GRAY--Cleve. We mourn the loss of a beloved friend, a great man, and a distinguished artist. We have been privileged to know him. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Francine, Luke, Thaddeus and the entire family. Berry-Hill Galleries GRAY--Cleve. Fine artist, perceptive and eloquent
 HERLANDS--Robert E. 83, former Professor of Dentistry, Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery, on December 7, 2004. Beloved husband of Eleanor S. Herlands (poet E. Ward Herlands). Prede ceased by sister, Lillian H. Hornstein, Professor of English, NYU, and brothers, Judge Wil
 HOBERMAN--Kenneth I. Beloved husband of Tammy. Extraordinary father of Ellen and Garret Rubin and Mara and the late David Hoberman. Adored grandfather of Brett, Griffin, and Spencer. A special and admired friend to many who loved him. Services Friday, December 10, 12 Noon at the Community S
 KAUFMAN -- Jerry. Dear brother of Carol Goldberg and her husband Arthur; uncle of Mark, Beth, Josh, and Penny; and great uncle of Samantha, Jason and Laelah. Died suddenly and unexpectedly at age 77. Publicist, playwright and ardent lover of theater, film and New York City. He had the love 
 PECHTER--Morton, of NYC and Juno Beach, FL passed away on December 8, 2004. Mr. Pechter was the loving husband of Katherine Machis Pechter. He was the loving son of the late Tillie and Harry Pechter, cherished father of Steven Pechter, the late Susan Pechter, and Barbara and John Lichtman. 
 PROWLER -- Stanley. Ar chitect. Beloved brother of Doris Lebow and Robert (Joan) Prowler; inspiring and entertaining uncle of Lynn (Doug) Nadeau; Joan (Norman) Wheeler; Cathy (Hank) Axelson-Berry; Gilbert (Mindy) Prowler; and David Prowler. He has touched the lives of many, many dear friend
 ZARNIN--Drake. The Board of Governors and members of Braeburn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Drake Zarnin. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his entire family. Michael Barasch, President Dr. Robert Green, Secretary ZARNIN--Drake. Dear Drake, your friendsh
 GIFFIN--Dr. Joseph. Dr. Craig Lazar wishes to extend his heartfelt gratitude to all who showed love and support during this difficult time.       
 David Brudnoy, an iconoclastic but urbane radio talk show host whose thoughtful treatment of politics and culture made him one of New England's most listened-to radio personalities for nearly three decades, died Thursday evening after a yearlong battle with skin cancer. He was 64. H
 Maxwell McCrohon, a former Australian news correspondent who became editor of The Chicago Tribune, United Press International and then The Los Angeles Herald Examiner, died Wednesday in Washington, where he had made his home. He was 76. The cause was complications of lung cancer, sa
 FLORY--Verdon on Wednesday, December 8, 2004. Loving son of Bertha and Perry Flory. Caring husband to Emily, and generous father to his two surviving sons, Christopher and Brian. His legacy as an artist and great human being shall live on. For information on services contact Riverside Memor
 GRAY--Cleve. The Friends Board and staff of the Neuberger Museum of Art and Thomas J. Schwarz, President of Purchase College, extend their sincere condolences to Francine and family upon the death of Cleve, a beloved artist and friend of the Museum. His memory will live on through his work 
 KERN--Edward, 79 of New York and Nantucket. Beloved by all who knew him, died suddenly on November 26th. He was an admired Senior Editor/Writer on Life Magazine, noted for massive series on ancient Greece and Rome, etc. A Navy Veteran, he was educated in France, Germany and England, graduat
 PECHTER--Morton, of NYC and Juno Beach, FL passed away on December 8, 2004. Mr. Pechter was the loving husband of Katherine Machis Pechter. He was the loving son of the late Tillie and Harry Pechter, cherished father of Steven Pechter, the late Susan Pechter, and Barbara and John Lichtman. 
 PROWLER -- Stanley. Ar chitect. Beloved brother of Doris Lebow and Robert (Joan) Prowler; inspiring and entertaining uncle of Lynn (Doug) Nadeau; Joan (Norman) Wheeler; Cathy (Hank) Axelson-Berry; Gilbert (Mindy) Prowler; and David Prowler. He has touched the lives of many, many dear friend
 Peter Bedrick, former publisher of Schocken Books, who later founded two publishing companies, Peter Bedrick Books and Enchanted Lion Books, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76. The cause was an inoperable brain tumor, said his wife, Muriel Bedrick. Howard 
 F. Darrin Perry, who as design director of ESPN Magazine in the late 1990's introduced streamlined typography and cinematic pictorial approaches to appeal to a new generation of sports fans, died on Nov. 25 at his home in San Francisco He was 39. The San Francisco medical examiner's
 Oscar M. Ruebhausen, a longtime New York lawyer, former Bar Association president and adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died on Tuesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92. The death was reported by Bevis Longstreth, a retired partner at Debevoise & Plimpt
 Allen C. Haskell, a nurseryman with an artist's eye, died on Tuesday in a hospital in New Bedford, Mass. He was 69. The death came after a short illness, a family friend, Eugene R. Bertrand Jr., said. His nursery, Allen C. Haskell & Son Horticulturists, with its early-18th-c
 Arthur Lydiard of New Zealand, perhaps history's premier distance-running coach and one of the first to promote fitness through jogging, died Saturday in Texas. He was 87. The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family told Reuters. Lydiard had been in the United States for a m
 Emilio Cruz a Manhattan painter, writer and performance artist, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 66. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Patricia Cruz. When Mr. Cruz began his career in the 1960's, he was associated with artists like Lester Johnso
 BOND--James B. On December 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Anne. He will be deeply missed by his family and many friends. A celebration of his life will be held Friday, December 17, 2004, 2 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 FENG--Ivan. My condolences to his widow, Laurette Soong Feng and members of the family. A philanthropist, he has been a longtime benefactor of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation. He will be sorely missed. Sadly, Page Morton Black, Chairman       
 FURMAN -- Stuart. Beloved husband of Gloria Ippoliti, died December 10, after a long and courageous battle with breast cancer. He graduated from MIT in 1953 as an architect-engineer. He then became project architect for H. K. Ferguson and Tippets, McCarthy and Stratton. During this time he 
 HELLER--Stephen Jonathan Christian. 44, died in his home in Ithaca, NY. Deeply mourned by his sisters Anne, Joan, Vivian, Eve, his uncle Marc Heller, and their families. Services will be held at the Grace Funeral Home (716-877-5079), in Buffalo, at 10 am, on December 17.       
 JOSEPH--Saul M. On December 10, 2004. Beloved husband of Marcia. Loving father of Hillary, Randie and Michael, and father-in-law of Kimberly. Devoted grandfather of Kellie and Jack. With Williams Real Estate for 52 years, Sergeant in the Marines, served in the Korean War. Services were held
 RITTMASTER--Robert. Born September 3, 1925, in New York City, son of Gilbert and Rosalie Rittmaster, died December 12, 2004. He received a BA degree from Penn State University in 1948 after serving in the United States Army during World War II. He was awarded the Purple Heart at the age of 
 SCHULMAN--Elliot. 54, of Los Angeles, CA, December 10, after a courageous battle with lung cancer. Beloved brother of Phyllis Kessler and her husband Carl. Adored uncle of Susan and Elizabeth. He had the love of many relatives, friends and colleagues to whom he was devoted. His sense of hum
 SUSSER--Leslie. 67, on December 11, 2004. Beloved father of Elizabeth, Andrew, Robert and Philip. He is also survived by nine grandchildren and devoted friend Robin Schiff. Services Monday, December 13, 11:45 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers pleas
 Stephen A. Girard Jr., an industrialist and automaker who helped introduce the Jeep, formerly a generic military transport, to civilians around the world, died on Nov. 27 in Napa, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Napa. His death was confirmed by his family. Mr. Girard spent his
 George S. Schairer, an aerodynamics expert at Boeing whose design innovations became standard on virtually all types of military and passenger jet planes, died on Oct. 28 in Kirkland, Wash. He was 91 and lived in Kenmore, Wash. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, sai
 BRAND--Robert, 82, on Saturday, December 11, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Rhoda. Devoted father of Dr. Jeffrey Brand and Diane Klein. Loving father-in-law of Russell and Jane. Adoring grandfather of Jennifer and David Klein, Allison and Jason Brand, and Ardie Smith. He will always be i
 DEWHURST--Terrence. On December 10, 2004, of Long Island City. Beloved husband of Margaret. Loving brother of Frances Dewhurst and Dorothy Faulkner, adored uncle of Deborah Gluck and two grandnieces. He received a B.S. Degree from Columbia University School of General Studies after serving 
 FENG--Ivan Y.T. Devoted husband of Laurette Soong for 52 years, peacefully passed away Friday night at home. Ivan will be remembered for his wisdom, generosity and optimism. Viewing Wednesday, 2-5PM & 7-9PM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave. at 81st St. Services Thursday 11 AM at Christ Chu
 HELLER--Stephen Jonathan Christian. 44, died in his home in Ithaca, NY. Deeply mourned by his sisters Anne, Joan, Vivian, Eve, his uncle Marc Heller, and their families. Services will be held at the Grace Funeral Home (716-877-5079), in Buffalo, at 10 am, on December 17.       
 JOSEPH--Saul M. On Friday, December 10, 2004, husband of Marcia, father of Michael, Hillary and Randie, father-inlaw of Kim, grandfather of Killie and Jack. Saul was a Senior Managing Director of GVA Williams, and a well liked and respected member of the Williams family for 53 years. We are
 JUDD--Eugene C., age 80, passed away peacefully on December 12, 2004. Beloved husband, partner and friend for 40 years of Inge, father of Jamie, Jason, Jodie, Jeramie and Heidi. Grandfather to Ryan, Jessie, Jordan, Skye, Zoe and Jake. Gene Cofounded and served as President of Judd-Falk, the
 MADERER--Miriam Flexner. 93, of New Rochelle, NY on December 12, 2004. Wife of the late Paul S. Maderer. Beloved mother of Susan of NYC, NY and Bill and his wife Marlene of Scotch Plains, NJ. Grandmother of Rabbi Jill Lisa Maderer and Paige Flexner Maderer. MADERER--Miriam. Temple I
 ORINGER--Dr. Maurice J., a 1928 graduate of the NYU College of Dentistry, passed away on November 7, 2004 after a short illness. He was a pioneer in the struggle to raise professional and public awareness of the deadliness of oral cancer and the importance of early diagnosis and treatment. 
 REISMAN--Philip S., M.D. Died on December 11, 2004 in Orono, ME following a brief illness. Survived by children: Susan, Maurice and Jesse and brother Charles. He was a Family Physician in the Bronx for more than 50 years, and was the Medical Director of R.H. Macy's Dept Stores.       
 RUEBHAUSEN -- Oscar M. The Bennington College Board of Trustees, faculty and staff deeply mourn the death of Oscar Ruebhausen who served as a Bennington College Trustee for fifteen years--serving as Chairman for seven years. Oscar was a distingished and accomplished man whose inspired leade
 SCHIFFMAN--Donald. Beloved husband of Carol, father of Steven, father-inlaw to Susan and grandfather to Rebecca; died peacefully at age 83 on December 12, 2004. Born in the Bronx, he built a successful retail business while bringing reason and logic in an illogical world. As an active fundr
 THACHER--Thomas. 88, on December 10, 2004, formerly of Riverdale, NY, New Canaan, CT, and North Haven, ME. Graduate of Phillips Academy, Andover, Yale College and Yale Law School. Naval Lieutenant in WWII. Partner, Simpson, Thacher and Bartlett, law firm founded by his grandfather (1946-195
 Thomas Thacher, a New York lawyer who was state insurance commissioner in the 1960's and was a founder and former president of the Wave Hill public gardens in the northwest Bronx, died last Friday in North Branford, Conn. He was 88 and formerly lived in Riverdale, the Bronx, and New Canaan,
 Anthony J. McAllister Jr., who helped expand his family's fleet of tugboats and barges to serve ports from New York to Puerto Rico, died on Dec. 9 in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 75 and lived in Pottsville, Pa. The cause was complications of heart surgery, his family said. From 197
 DORFMAN--Leon, of Las Vegas, NV, formerly of Whitestone, NY, in his 96th year on December 12. Funeral will be in Las Vegas.       
 FENG--Ivan Y.T. Devoted husband of Laurette Soong for 52 years, peacefully passed away Friday night at home. Ivan will be remembered for his wisdom, generosity and optimism. Viewing Wednesday, 2-5PM & 7-9PM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave. at 81st St. Services Thursday 11 AM at Christ Chu
 HELLER--Stephen Jonathan Christian. 44, died in his home in Ithaca, NY. Deeply mourned by his sisters Anne, Joan, Vivian, Eve, his uncle Marc Heller, and their families. Services will be held at the Grace Funeral Home (716-877-5079), in Buffalo, at 10 am, on December 17.       
 JOSEPH--Saul M. On Friday, December 10, 2004, husband of Marcia, father of Michael, Hillary and Randie, father-inlaw of Kim, grandfather of Killie and Jack. Saul was a Senior Managing Director of GVA Williams, and a well liked and respected member of the Williams family for 53 years. We are
 JUDD--Eugene ''Gene''. In memory of my friend and mentor. I send my heartfelt sympathies to his wife Inge and his children Heidi, Jason, Jodie and Jamie. Barbara Pickens       
 LAUGHLIN--John Seth, 86, of Scarsdale, NY. Died on December 11, 2004. He served for decades as Chairman of the Department of Medical Physics of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and was a pioneer in the field of the radiation treatment of cancer. He was predeceased by his wife Barb
 LEBOWICH--William (Billy). Dearly loved husband, father, grandfather, great - grand father, brother, uncle and friend passed away on December 14, 2004. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him.       
 MORGAN--John P. II. The Trustees, Fellows, and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of John P. Morgan II. He served as a valuable member of the Board of Trustees from 1948 to 1989, when he became a Trustee Emeritus. He served as Vice President of the Board from 1952 to 1988.
 PORTNOF--Sidney. Beloved husband of Jessica. Loving father of Paul & Michelle Portnof, Heidi & Mark Kleiner, Ronald & the late Jane Ostrove. Cherished grandfather of Robert Palumbo, Joshua & Blake Portnof, Chad & Jennifer Kleiner, Sari & Joshua Penso, Lori & David Ostrove. Our love is with 
 SHERMAN--Paul J. Of New Rochelle, on December 13, 2004, after an extended effort to survive cardiac arrest suffered on August 11, 2003. He is deeply missed by his family and friends. Beloved and devoted husband for 51 years of the late Judith Sherman, father of Scott and Karen, fatherin-law
 THACHER--Thomas. 88, on December 10, 2004, formerly of Riverdale, NY, New Canaan, CT, and North Haven, ME. Graduate of Phillips Academy, Andover, Yale College and Yale Law School. Naval Lieutenant in WWII. Partner, Simpson, Thacher and Bartlett, law firm founded by his grandfather (1946-195
 DEXTER--Martin, 88, passed away at his Briarcliff Manor, NY home on December 11, 2004. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Florence, his daughter Elizabeth, his son Daniel, and his four grandchildren. Dr. Dexter received his degree from CCNY and his doctorate from NYU. A scientist by in
 LAUGHLIN--John Seth. With deep sorrow, the Department of Medical Physics of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center marks the passing of our friend and colleague, John Seth Laughlin, Chairman of the Department from 1952 until 1989. During his term, the Department experienced a flowering 
 LaWARE--John P., age 76, of Sea Island, GA, former Governor of the Federal Reserve Board, died December 13, 2004. Surviving are his children, J. Kevin LaWare, Appleton, WI and Margaret LaWare, Lynn, MA, grandsons John David LaWare and William Powels LaWare, Brentwood, TN. Funeral 11:00 AM F
 LONDON--Harold N. on December 14. Beloved husband of Shirley for over 64 years. Devoted father of Richard and Philip. Loving grandfather of Jason, Roger, Randie and Ilyssa. Retired partner of the accounting firm of Freeman & Davis, LLP. Charter member and former treasurer of the Malvern Jew
 MORGAN--John P. II. The Trustees, Fellows, and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of John P. Morgan II. He served as a valuable member of the Board of Trustees from 1948 to 1989, when he became a Trustee Emeritus. He served as Vice President of the Board from 1952 to 1988.
 PORTNOF--Sidney. The law firm of Felcher Fox & Litner notes with sorrow the passing of Sidney Portnof, a longtime and treasured client and friend, and extends condolences and sympathy to his wife Jessica, his children Paul and Heidi, and the Portnof family.       
 SHERMAN -- Paul J. The members and staff of Pryor Cashman Sherman & Flynn LLP are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed partner and friend of over 40 years, Paul J. Sherman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family.       
 Paul Edwards, a professor of philosophy who edited The Encyclopedia of Philosophy, an enduring and authoritative reference work covering topics from ''the absolute'' to Zoroastrianism, a Persian religion, died on Dec. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause apparently was h
 George S. Rattner, a paint manufacturer and an Off Broadway playwright, died on Wednesday at North Shore Community Hospital in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. For nearly 40 years, Mr. Rattner was head of Paragon Paint and Varnis
 DRUSS--Lt. Philip M. On December 15, 2004. Always faithful. He will be profoundly missed by his loving family and legion of friends and comrades. Service Sunday 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 ETTARI--Frank K. Survived by his beloved wife Patricia and four children Catherine, Paul, Mary and Jane and four grandchildren. Died Wednesday December 15 in Tequesta, Fl. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to Catholic Student Center, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755.       
 FISHER--Richard B. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the death of our beloved Board Chairman, Richard Fisher. Our sense of loss is immense, and our hearts and thoughts are with the Fisher family at this difficult time. Dick was a cherished member of the University community. He joine
 KAPLAN--Harold, 96, on December 15, 2004. Husband of Lore. Father of George, Robert and Amy. Father-inlaw of Joanne. Grandfather of Ben, Jake, Noah and Nicole. He was a community organizer for State of Israel Bonds from its inception until his retirement. An inquisitive, engaged and humane 
 LIPSKY--Arthur B. Dad died peacefully in his sleep, surrounded by family, on December 16. Funeral services will be Sunday, December 19, at Schwartz Brothers Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills, NY at 12:30. Interment following service at Old Montefiore Cemetery, St. Albans, Qu
 Richard B. Fisher, a former chairman of the Morgan Stanley investment bank, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 68 and had homes in Manhattan and Waccabuc, N.Y. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, his brother, David W. Fisher, sa
 John De Pol, whose familiar woodcut images were long a considerable presence in American art and illustration, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 91 and lived in Cliffside Park, N.J. His death was announced by the University of Delaware Library, where a retrospe
 FISHER--Richard B. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the death of our beloved Board Chairman, Richard Fisher. Our sense of loss is immense, and our hearts and thoughts are with the Fisher family at this difficult time. Dick was a cherished member of the University community. He joine
 LIPSKY--Arthur B. Dad died peacefully in his sleep, surrounded by family, on December 16. Funeral services will be Sunday, December 19, at Schwartz Brothers Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills, NY at 12:30. Interment following service at Old Montefiore Cemetery, St. Albans, Qu
 Seymour Melman, a Columbia University scholar who helped galvanize the antiwar movement from the 1950's on with analyses of the social costs of military spending, died on Dec. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause appeared to be an aneurysm, said Benjamin Abrams, his res
 Larry Buchanan, a film director who went from making inspirational films for Oral Roberts to turning out a spate of lurid, awful B movies, among them ''Zontar, the Thing From Venus,'' ''The Eye Creatures'' and, most famously, ''Mars Needs Women,'' died on Dec. 2 in Tucson, Ariz. He was 81 a
 BLAUVELT--Harold A., was born on June 30, 1909 in Sanford, Alabama. He attended Georgia Tech and received his New York State Professional Engineer License in 1938. In 1929 he met and married Charlotte Carson of Brooklyn, NY. They remained married for over fifty years until her death in 1980
 COLLYER--Michael. The National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences mourns the loss of one of its most respected and distinguished members, Michael Collyer. Michael's longtime devotion to the Academy, his strong leadership during his tenure as chairman, and his dignity and class will lon
 DALEY -- Leonard. Ev eryone's best friend. He knew no other way to be a friend. We'll miss our best friend. Our hearts go out to Marilyn. Jack Zita, Nancy, Mitch       
 DIAO--Richard (''Dick'') K., age 80, died December 3, 2004 in Walnut Creek, CA. A native of Chengdu (Sichuan), China, Dick has lived in the US for over 40 years. Among six other siblings, Dick was son of Lieutenant General William Shih-Chieh Diao (Cmdr 95th Army, Republic of China) and Pei-
 FISHER--Richard B. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the death of our beloved Board Chairman, Richard Fisher. Our sense of loss is immense, and our hearts and thoughts are with the Fisher family at this difficult time. Dick was a cherished member of the University community. He joine
 HOTCHKISS--Rollin D. The Rockefeller University community mourns with deep sadness the loss of our distinguished colleague and beloved friend, Rollin D. Hotchkiss. Dr. Hotchkiss was a biochemist and geneticist best known for his seminal contributions to DNA research. A valued member of the 
 KAPLAN--Harold, 96, on December 15, 2004. Husband of Lore. Father of George, Robert and Amy. Father-inlaw of Joanne. Grandfather of Ben, Jake, Noah and Nicole. He was a community organizer for State of Israel Bonds from its inception until his retirement. An inquisitive, engaged and humane 
 LIPSKY--Arthur B. Dad died peacefully in his sleep, surrounded by family, on December 16. Funeral services will be Sunday, December 19, at Schwartz Brothers Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills, NY at 12:30. Interment following service at Old Montefiore Cemetery, St. Albans, Qu
 NOVOTNY--Edward G, 66, of New York died November 27, 2004 after a long battle with pancreatic cancer. Born in Chicago on October 23, 1938, son of Edward G., and Anna Von der Heide Novotny, he was a graduate of New York University where he earned both his BS and MBA degrees. He began his car
 ROTHSTEIN--Milton. Died on December 16, 2004, in Florida. He is survived by his beloved wife Ruth, children Diane and Alan Slobotkin, Ronald Rothstein. Grandfather of Stephanie, David and Barry. We will miss you Dad, Grandpa and dear husband.       
 SHERMAN -- Paul J. The members and staff of Pryor Cashman Sherman & Flynn LLP are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed partner and friend of over 40 years, Paul J. Sherman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family.       
 THACHER--Thomas. 88, on December 10, 2004, formerly of Riverdale, NY, New Canaan, CT, and North Haven, ME. Graduate of Phillips Academy, Andover, Yale College and Yale Law School. Naval Lieutenant in WWII. Partner, Simpson, Thacher and Bartlett, law firm founded by his grandfather (1946-195
 Solomon J. Sharfman, an Orthodox rabbi who helped make southern Brooklyn an international center of Orthodox Jewish life, died on Dec. 5 at his home in Jerusalem. He was 89 and had formerly lived in Flatbush, Brooklyn. He died in his sleep, his daughter Riki Koenigsberg said.       
 BERNSTEIN--Sidney I. On December 18, 2004, at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Anne for nearly 63 years. Loving father of Andi Salsberg, Karyn Klein and Barry Bernstein. Devoted father-inlaw of Richard Salsberg and Dr. Allan Klein. Adored grandfather of Gregg, Brian, Kerry, Corey, Brett an
 COLLYER--Michael. The National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences mourns the loss of one of its most respected and distinguished members, Michael Collyer. Michael's longtime devotion to the Academy, his strong leadership during his tenure as chairman, and his dignity and class will lon
 CROSBY--Gordon E. Jr. A long time New York resident passed away at his home in Ft. Myers, FL, on Thursday, December 16, 2004 at the age of 84. Mr. Crosby was born in Remsen, Iowa, and raised near the Lake of the Ozarks in Missouri. He attended the University of Missouri, was president of Si
 DESSEL--Benjamin. On Saturday, December 18, 2004, from complications of a stroke. Beloved husband of the late Lenore Hopp Dessel. A most generous and loving father, Ben is survived by daughter Susan Dessel and partner David Reich, daughter Abby Ettore and husband Stephen Strauss, son J.P. D
 DUNAY--Edward. On December 19, 2004, in Quogue. Survived by his son Peter, sister Cecile Hilber and longtime companion Jan Corbin. He will be missed by his extended family Stephanie, Nicky and Eddie Brooks, as well as friends, Monte, Charley and Madison Lukov. He will be remembered by his m
 GOULD--Stuart S. Truly a man who placed responsibilities above selfishness and personal gain. His central thought in life was ''think of what I can do for someone else.'' Stuart's 98 years certianly was a life long in achievement. Robin and Mike Brooke and Gary Robin and Keith       
 HOFFER--Abby. On December 18. Beloved husband of the late Terry. Loving father of Marc, Candy and Paul. Dear brother of Millie Levine and Bernie Hoffer. Grandfather of Deborah. He will be genuinely missed. Funeral Monday, December 20, at 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th and Amsterdam Av
 ROTHSTEIN--Milton. Died on December 16, 2004, in Florida. He is survived by his beloved wife Ruth, children Diane and Alan Slobotkin, Ronald Rothstein. Grandfather of Stephanie, David and Barry. We will miss you Dad, Grandpa and dear husband.       
 Tom Wesselmann, a prominent Pop artist best known for modernizing the classic female nude into a flat, enigmatic, billboard-friendly silhouette, died Friday at New York University Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after heart surgery, said
 Anthony Sampson, a British investigative journalist who was Nelson Mandela's authorized biographer, died on Saturday at his home in Wiltshire, England. He was 78 and also resided in London. No cause of death was made public, but his wife, Sally, said that Mr. Sampson had had heart t
 Dr. Rollin D. Hotchkiss, a biochemist who, while studying bacteria at Rockefeller University in the 1940's, conducted early research into the way genes are passed between generations, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Lenox, Mass. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure, said
 Dr. Herbert C. Brown, a chemist who won a Nobel Prize for developing a valuable versatile addition to the tool kit for synthesizing drugs and other chemicals, died Sunday at a hospital in Lafayette, Ind. He was 92. The cause was a heart attack, said officials at Purdue University, w
 John W. Culligan, who rose from the mailroom to serve as the chief executive of the American Home Products Corporation, maker of familiar medications like Advil, Anacin and Preparation H, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J. He was 88. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis
 DUNAY--Edward. On December 19, 2004, in Quogue. Survived by his son Peter, sister Cecile Hilber and longtime companion Jan Corbin. He will be missed by his extended family Stephanie, Nicky and Eddie Brooks, as well as friends, Monte, Charley and Madison Lukov. He will be remembered by his m
 FEUERSTEIN--Howard 56, of New York City, on December 20, 2004. He was a Casting Director, a member of Casting Society of America and a Graduate of Emerson College. Survived by his parents, sister, brother-in-law and nieces. For information Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, Paramus, NJ.       
 GOULD--Stuart S. Our family announces with sorrow the passing of a wonderful father, father - in - law, grandfather and great-grandfather at 98 years of age. He truly lived the American dream and we all benefited from that. Although he is gone, he will never be forgotten and we will all che
 GRANOFF -- Herbert. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 HOFFER--Abby. On December 18. Beloved husband of the late Terry. Loving father of Marc, Candy and Paul. Dear brother of Millie Levine and Bernie Hoffer. Grandfather of Deborah. He will be genuinely missed.       
 MANHEIMER--William B. 73, in Boca Raton, FL on December 20, after a courageous 30 year battle with Multiple Sclerosis. Survived by wife of 48 years Joanne, son Jack, his wife Jane and their children Ben and Micki, daughter Jill Quadland and her sons Zack and Graham, and daughter Lynda Feins
 MONAHAN--John F., a prominent hotelier and meeting planner in South Florida, died at his home in Hallandale on December 18, 2004. He is survived by his children: John, Michael, Thomas and Lizanne, as well as many, many friends. Funeral services are at St. Matthew's Church in Hallandale at 1
 PEARSON--Charles Lee, Jr., 86, on December 20, 2004. Beloved husband of Vera, stepfather to Sharon and brother of Virginia Baffari. Devoted uncle to many. A memorial service to be held at the end of January. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 SCHREIER--Al. Deeply loved by his family and friends. Services 11:15, December 22, Parkside Chapel, 9860 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills. Contributions in lieu of flowers to Myasthenia Gravis Fndtn.       
 Jack Newfield, a journalist and author who brought Brooklyn moxie, sassy cynicism and often zealous partisanship to muckraking reporting on subjects from New York politics to boxing, died on Monday night at New York-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 66. The cause was kidney cancer
 BRAND--Robert. On December 20th, 2004. Beloved husband of Joan Fisher Brand, loving father of David and Elanor, devoted father-in-law to David Levine and Amy Rosen - Brand and adoring grandfather to Samantha Levine. Mr. Brand was a lighting designer, designing over 250 productions in Opera,
 DUNAY--Edward. In remembrance of our uncle who passed away after a long illness. He will be remembered for his widsom, sense of humor and kindness. He will be buried alongside his parents, Harry and Anna, and sisters Jeanette Orkin and Roslyn Kreisel. He is survived by his son Peter, his si
 FANNICK--Nick, 65, on December 21, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL, formerly of N.Y.C., Amagansett and PA. Survived by his companion of 33 years, Ed Finder, his sister Arline Gaines, niece Laura, and many friends in N.Y. and Australia. Nick passed on peacefully at home after a long illness. Your love
 FISHER--Richard B. On behalf of the board of trustees and staff of Carnegie Corporation of New York, we celebrate the life of Richard Fisher whose wise counsel and many contributions informed the work of the corporation. During his years of service to Carnegie Corporation, Mr Fisher's profe
 FLESCH--Irving James. Born July 12, 1904, died on December 17, 2004 at home with his wife of 64 years, Elizabeth Salomon Flesch at his side. He is survived also by daughter Emily Flesch Bauer, son-inlaw Peter Bauer, grandchildren Victoria Bauer Nadler and David Albert Bauer, as well as five
 KESSLER--Victor. Born in Mount Vernon, NY, passed away in Virginia Beach, VA on December 20, 2004 at the age of 85. He was a Captain in the Army Air Force during WWII and in 1945 married the former Carol Smith. He was a devoted husband, loving father to Andi, Stephen and Philip and is survi
 McALLISTER--Anthony, Jr. The Trustees and staff of the South Street Seaport Museum express their deepest condolences to the family of Anthony McAllister, Jr. Since 1864, McAllister tugboats have enhanced the role the shipping industry played in the development of New York City. The company 
 MOSLEY--Clifton E., 54, of Hamden, CT died December 18. His wife, Gloria A. Mosley, daughters Karla and Alex Mosley survive him. He was employed by the Dept. of Health, NYC. A memorial service will he held at a later date.       
 NEWFIELD--Jack. The City University of New York deeply mourns the passing of our distinguished alumnus and legendary journalist and author, Jack Newfield. An intensely proud graduate of Hunter College, Jack had recently agreed to join the faculty of his alma mater. His courage, candor and c
 PEARSON--Charles Lee, Jr., 86, on December 20, 2004. Beloved husband of Vera, stepfather to Sharon and brother of Virginia Baffari. Devoted uncle to many. A memorial service to be held at the end of January. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 ROKER--Gregory, 55, died suddenly December 20. Survived by his wife Jody Berenblatt, daughter Sascha, mother Lennie Roker Murray, nephews Jeron and Lemar. Viewing today 4:30-8pm and funeral Thursday 11am, Benta's Funeral Home, 630 St. Nicholas Ave (corner 141st St), NY. In lieu of flowers, 
 SOLOMON--Ralph M. Passed away December 20, 2004 in Boca Raton, Fl. Loving husband of Delores. Adored father, grandfather and greatgrandfather. Contributions to Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County, 9901 Donna Klein Blvd, Boca Raton, Fl. 33428. GuttermanWarheit, Boca Raton, Fl. 80099
 STACK--Harris. With great sadness we extend our heartfelt condolences to our colleague and friend Tom, his wife Jeannine, and sons Austin and Reid on the loss of their cherished son and brother, Harris. His bright smile and joyful energy will forever be in our hearts. The Spector Group Long
 STEINMAN--Jack. Age 86, on December 19, 2004 at home. Loving and beloved husband of Ruth Steinman, his wife of 62 years; father of Hank, Joan and David (Eileen), grandfather of five; Dr. Peter Crawford (Dr. Jane Chen), Jennifer (Rommel Gallegos Poot) and Amanda Cassel, Katie and Miranda, gr
 Son Seals, a Chicago bluesman whose slash-and-burn guitar solos and raspy voice carried a fierce blues spirit into a new generation, died on Monday in Chicago. He was 62. The cause was complications from diabetes, said a spokeswoman for Alligator Records, his label from the 1970's i
 ON an unusually calm day on the Hudson River, Alan F. Blumberg is standing on a cracked concrete bulkhead scattered with splintered wood and rusting pieces of metal. He is paying close attention to a length of PVC pipe with a black wire snaking from its top that is anchored in the water.   
 BERNSTEIN--Sydney. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Sydney Bernstein, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Anne and their family. Old Westbury Golf C.C. Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 FISHER--Richard B. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, the faculty and the staff of Western Reserve Academy, we wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to Dick's wife, Jeanne Donovan Fisher, and his family. H. Arthur Bellows, Jr., Pres. of the Board of Trustees Henry E. Flanagan, Jr., Head
 KATZ--Leopold, Ph.D. The William Alanson White Institute and Society are profoundly grieved at the untimely death of a much loved and esteemed Institute graduate and colleague. Leopold was a bright, kind, decent and gracious man whose incredible heart and zest for a full and meaningful life
 LANDEY--Martin H. Died on Tuesday, December 21, 2004. An advertising legend credited with the creation and packaging of Absolut Vodka and the growth of the Hearst magazine and Coty fragrance brands, he equally excelled as fisherman, race car driver, chef, and ever gracious host. He lived 75
 MARSHACK--Alexander. On December 20, 2004. Beloved husband of Elaine and treasured by his extended family. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 MORGAN--John Pierpont, II. On December 10, 2004 at age 86. For 42 years (1951-1993), a Member of the Board of Managers of The Havens Relief Fund Society and its able Treasurer for 32 years (1952-1984). Thereafter, at the Board's insistance he was thrice reelected to serve as a Manager for a
 NEWFIELD--Jack. The staff and members of 1199SEIU mourn the loss of a beloved friend and ally whose voice, pure and unwavering, was the voice of the people. Among Jack's passionate causes was the fight for home health care workers for a living wage. In columns in our monthly magazine, his t
 PEEK--Richard. 55, on December 22, 2004. Beloved son of Edna and Murray, brother of Barry. His spirit is now free to fly. A Memorial Service is being planned for the end of January. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Christopher Reeve Foundation.       
 SIMONS -- Sylvan, 86, of Greenwich, CT, formerly of Providence, RI, died December 21, 2004. A graduate of the University of Rhode Island, an electrical engineer and an inventor, he was the husband of Eva Sayles and the late Frances Hurwitz. Besides his wife, he is survived by his sister, St
 STEINMAN--Jack. Age 86, on December 19, 2004 at home. Loving and beloved husband of Ruth Steinman, his wife of 62 years; father of Hank, Joan and David (Eileen), grandfather of five; Dr. Peter Crawford (Dr. Jane Chen), Jennifer (Rommel Gallegos Poot) and Amanda Cassel, Katie and Miranda, gr
 Pamulaparthi Venkata Narasimha Rao, who as prime minister in the early 1990's oversaw the initiation of India's economic reforms, died Thursday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi. He was 83. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, the hospital said in a state
 FLESCH -- Irving ''Jimmy''. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our long time and loyal member, Irving ''Jimmy'' Flesch, at age 100. Heartfelt condolences are extended to our members, his wife, Elizabeth ''Liz'' Flesch, grandchildren, David and Alison Bauer, and 
 GROSSMAN--Barbara. The 92nd St Y board and staff send their heartfelt condolences to longtime supporter and former board member Jerry Grossman and his family on the passing of his beloved wife, Barbara. May her memory be for a blessing. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairma
 KING--John. December 21, 2004. Architect and loving husband of late Gloria Euyang, survived by children Monty and Wendy, brother Henri, sister Memee, and adoring nieces and nephews. As per John's wish, in lieu of service and flowers, donations may be made in his memory where he volunteered:
 LANDEY--Martin H. Died on Tuesday, December 21, 2004. An advertising legend credited with the creation and packaging of Absolut Vodka and the growth of the Hearst magazine and Coty fragrance brands, he equally excelled as fisherman, race car driver, chef, and ever gracious host. He lived 75
 NARDONE--Louis V., 86, founding partner of Nardone Brothers Pizza Baking Company in Wilkes-Barre, PA. Died Wednesday. He was the father of Dr. Maria Nardone of New York City and Mario, Vincent and Louis Nardone of Shavertown, PA. Funeral Mass will be celebrated Monday in Saint Nicholas Roma
 SCHNEIDER--Dr. Harry M. on December 23 at 92 at his daughter Liz's home surrounded by family and friends. Loving father of Elizabeth M. Schneider, beloved grandfather of Anna and Matthew Schneider-Mayerson, devoted brother of Herman Schneider, Sybil Grossman and the late Dr. Benjamin, Louis
 SIEGEL -- Benjamin. The Abraham Joshua Heschel School Community notes with great sorrow the passing of Benjamin Siegel, father of our devoted Trustee Seth M. (Yossi) Siegel, father-in-law of Rachel Ringler and grandfather of alumni Alana '97, Samuel '01 and current student Talia '05. Benjam
 Richard J. Barnet, a Kennedy administration official who was a founder of the Institute for Policy Studies, one of the first research organizations in the country to address public policy from a left-wing vantage point, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 75. The cause 
 Dr. John S. Laughlin, a medical physicist and educator who was an early leader in the use of radiation to diagnose and treat cancers, died on Dec. 11 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, where he headed the department of medical physics for four decades. He was 86.       
 Johnny Oates, who managed the Texas Rangers to three American League division titles in the 1990's, the only postseason appearances in the franchise's history, died yesterday at a hospital in Richmond. He was 58. His death was announced by John Blake, a former spokesman for the Rangers, The
 NARDONE--Louis V., 86, founding partner of Nardone Brothers Pizza Baking Company in Wilkes-Barre, PA. Died Wednesday. He was the father of Dr. Maria Nardone of New York City and Mario, Vincent and Louis Nardone of Shavertown, PA. Funeral Mass will be celebrated Monday in Saint Nicholas Roma
 SCHNEIDER--Dr. Harry M. on December 23 at 92 at his daughter Liz's home surrounded by family and friends. Loving father of Elizabeth M. Schneider, beloved grandfather of Anna and Matthew Schneider-Mayerson, devoted brother of Herman Schneider, Sybil Grossman and the late Dr. Benjamin, Louis
 James J. Ling, a plucky Texan whose dazzling financial acrobatics and steely nerve helped make him one of the early leaders in the drive to build giant American conglomerates, died on Dec. 17 at his home in Dallas. He was 81. The cause was esophageal cancer, Charles Ling, his brothe
 ABALDO--Guy C., December 19, 2004, Veteran of WWII, member of U.S. Army Air Corps, longtime resident of New York City. Son of the late Gaetano and Caroline, beloved brother of Joseph (Sally) Abaldo, the late Marion (Jimmy) Tabilio, Daniel (Molly) Abaldo, and Benjamin Abaldo; also survived b
 BENDO--George J., 86, on December 22, 2004 in Spring Hill, FL. Dedicated and beloved physician in the Rockaways, NYC. Son of Kastorian Greek immigrant parents. Graduate of Far Rockaway High School, Columbia University and NYU School of Medicine. Loving husband of Athena (Avazis) for 59 year
 CURTIS--John A. ''Jack'', 78, of Arlington and East Sandwich, MA, died on December 5, 2004 at his beachfront home on Cape Cod. Born in Harbin, China and raised in Tokyo, Japan, Mr. Curtis graduated from Princeton and then earned a Master's in Architecture at MIT. After a distinguished 30 ye
 ELY--James Soper Jr, Rochester, NY. Native of Buffalo, NY. December 21, 2004. Predeceased by his parents James S. Ely & Nell (Schoelkopf) Ely; sister Nell Ely Wendler. Survived by his Wife Michele (Knuckles) Ely; six children; 16 grandchildren, one great grandchild. Donations may be sent to
 FRIEDMAN -- Herbert. Age 100. A 1929 graduate of Brooklyn Law School, Mr. Friedman was a distinguished Wall Street attorney for 50 years, snowbirding between homes in Northport, LI, and North Miami Beach. A former chess enthusiast and quoter of Shakespeare, he was married for 67 years to la
 GOLDRICH--William, after a long bout with cancer. He is survived by his loving wife Frances, and son Jeffrey, six grandchildren and three daughters-in-law. Father of the late Kenneth and Richard. He was distinguished by his love of family and keen intelligence and will be sorely missed by h
 GOLLUB--Monte J. 54, of Rockville Centre, NY, died suddenly on December 24, 2004. Most treasured and adored husband of Diane, devoted father of Hayley and Ross, loving son of Eleanore and the late Harold Gollub, son-in-law of Pearl and Harvey Lipton, brother-in-law of Ewa and Charles Lipton
 GOUSSELAND--Pierre, 82, a resident of Greenwich, CT, died Monday, December 13 in Greenwich Hospital due to complications of myelodisplastic syndrome. Born on January 14, 1922 in TonnayCharente, France, Mr. Gousseland received the degree of Ingenieur Civil des Mines from the Ecole Nationale 
 GREEN--Leo, age 91, of Jackson Heights, NY, died December 24, 2004 in Elmhurst Hospital. A Veteran of WWII, he served in the United States Army. He was a retired advertising copywriter for Bond Stores, and later for J.C. Penney, and was a member of the Jackson Heights Art Club. A private bu
 KLOPF--Gordon John, 87, on September 13, 2004. Friend, mentor, educator. Champion in behalf of children and the aging. We remember him affectionately as a wise counsellor and enduring influence during the U.S. National Student Association founding years. Former Dean at Bank Street. Interred
 NARDONE--Louis V., 86, founding partner of Nardone Brothers Pizza Baking Company in Wilkes-Barre, PA. Died Wednesday. He was the father of Dr. Maria Nardone of New York City and Mario, Vincent and Louis Nardone of Shavertown, PA. Funeral Mass will be celebrated Monday in Saint Nicholas Roma
 SIEGEL--Benjamin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Benjamin Siegel, beloved father of Seth M. (Yossi) Siegel, a treasured leader of the New York Jewish Community whose many involvements, including our Entertainment Division and P
 MARUSI--Augustine R. Of Lake Wales, FL, died December 24, 2004. Formerly of Rumson, NJ, and Dorset, VT. He is survived by his beloved wife of 64 years, Ruth Sinclair Travis, and his loving children Frederic D. Marusi of Lancaster, PA, and Margo M. Boyle of Cherry Hill Village, CO, and grand
 MODLIN--Joe. Passed away December 25, 2004. Devoted husband of Sylvia (deceased). Beloved father of Barrie (Leah). Cherished grandfather of Avery (Ellen) and Adam (Wendy). Adored great-grandfather of Harrison, Jamie, Dylan, Shane and Julia. Donations in his memory may be made to Riverdale J
 NEWFIELD--Jack. Jack, the giant killer, was a special journalist who made a difference. More than once his fountain of knowledge helped me. New York will miss his golden pen. Dan Dorfman       
 NOLAN--Philip T. December 24, 2004. Retired Verizon, CWA 1101, AFL-CIO member, veteran of the US Air Force. Loving husband of 50 years to Margaret, wonderful father of Catherine, a New York State Assemblywoman, Margaret, a registered nurse practitioner, and Philip, a retired NYC detective. 
 ROTHSCHILD--Steven J. On December 23rd, 2004, Mr. Rothschild passed away in his Greenville home at the age of 60. He was surrounded by his loving family. For the past 15 months he valiantly battled a rare form of brain cancer. Mr. Rothschild's legacy included a life filled with passion for 
 Reggie White, the defensive end who was one of the greatest players in National Football League history, died yesterday at a hospital in Huntersville, N.C. White, who lived in Cornelius, N.C., was 43. White's death was announced by his wife, Sara. The cause was not immediately known
 Alexander Marshack, a self-taught anthropological researcher who first interpreted certain Stone Age artifacts as primitive calendars, advancing the notion that prehistoric man was more inventive than previously thought, died on Dec. 20 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 8
 Sir Angus Ogilvy, a prominent British businessman and financier closely tied to the royal family by friendship and by marriage to Princess Alexandra, Queen Elizabeth's popular first cousin, died Sunday at a hospital near his London home. He was 76. The British news media reported th
 Eddie Layton, a sports institution in New York as the organist at Yankee Stadium and Madison Square Garden, died Sunday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. His death was announced by the Yankees, who said it came after a brief illness. Layton customarily declined to reveal his age,
 BILODEAU--Mark. C-BASS and all of our affiliated companies are extremely saddened by the untimely death of our good friend and colleague, Mark Bilodeau. Mark was an original founding member of the company and has been instrumental in its success. His dedication and vision were responsible f
 BURNS--Albert Vincent. On December 27, 2004, age 89. Beloved husband of Mary, his wife of 57 years; loving father of Mary Ellen, Carolyn, Michael, George, Mark, Patricia, Barbara, David, Cathy, Jacqueline, Christine, Deirdre and Angela; proud grandfather of 16 grandchildren. We will miss hi
 FIORE--Michael. On December 27, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Lee Fiore and devoted father of Nina Ann and Maria Stella. With simplicity, elegance and generosity he touched many lives and will be missed dearly. Visitation will be held at Thomas M. Quinn and Sons, 35-20 Broadway, Long Is
 FORD--George Edward. Of Palm Beach, FL, a private investor, sportsman, and philanthropist died on Friday, December 24, 2004 at Hospice of Palm Beach County following an extended illness. He was 97. Born in Barrie, Ontario (Canada) on May 10, 1907, his parents were Thomas Henry Ford and the 
 MANDEL--Allan Judah. Departed on Shabbos Kodesh, December 25, 2004. Graduate of Lincoln High School, City College, Brooklyn Law School. Most loving and beloved husband of Phyllis for 47 years. Dearest father of Shera (Bruce), Rabbi Marc (Jackie), Alisa Rivky (Robbie), and Gary (Yael). Adore
 MANHEIMER--William. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the recent passing of William Manheimer, former Trustee and Chairman of our School Committee, son of former President, the late Jacob Manheimer. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife Joanne and the entire Manheimer family
 RIELO--Fernando, Founder of the Idente Missionaries. Dr. Fernando Rielo Pardal, founder of the Idente Missionaries, died approximately 10 p.m. on Monday, December 6, 2004, at the age of 81. He expired surrounded by the members of one of his religious communities in the City of New York, whe
 ROSE--Elliot. 71, of Yonkers, NY. Beloved husband of Leila Rose. Cherished father of David Rose, Amy Rose and Joanne Trapanese. Loving brother of Evelyn Rose and Herbert Rose. Devoted father-in-law of Donna Rose, Richard Piccione and Paul Trapanese. Affectionate and much loved grandfather o
 WILDER--David E., Ph.D. On December 22, 2004, of Pound Ridge, NY. Faculty of Columbia University and NYS Psychiatric Institute. Beloved husband of Priscilla Bollard Wilder. Devoted father of Andrew and Matthew, stepfather of Glen and Gregory Bollard and Nina Tourtellotte. Dear brother of Ma
 ZUCKOFF--Murray. Under whose editorship JTA became a force to be reckoned with, died December 26 of a long illness brought on by a broken heart. He is survived by his cherished wife of 38 years, Aviva Cantor; three sons and two grandchildren. Funeral is Thursday December 30, 11:30am at Plaz
 John D. Deardourff, who helped pioneer the fledgling postwar profession of political consulting and who served a string of prominent Republican clients, died Friday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Douglas L. Bailey, his former business partner.      
 BLACKSTON--Elmer Elton, Jr. A 30 plus year retired employee of the New York Times passed away on December 26, 2004. He leaves to mourn his wife, Ms. Violet Blackston, a son and daughter, and a host of relatives and friends. The viewing will be held Thursday, December 30 from 10 A.M. to 12 P
 FIORE--Michael. On December 27, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Lee Fiore and devoted father of Nina Ann and Maria Stella. With simplicity, elegance and generosity he touched many lives and will be missed dearly. Visitation will be held at Thomas M. Quinn and Sons, 35-20 Broadway, Long Is
 HAMILTON -- Richard. We mourn the loss of our beloved fellow member and an actor's actor. His exemplary career in the theater was matched only by his devotion to his family and the joy he brought to his friends. We will miss him. Our love to Marilyn and their family. The Players Timothy Hut
 KRAMON--Roy Abram. Died December 28 at 93. Husband of Hermine for 65 years. Father of Grant Clifford, Glenn and Gordon. Grandfather of Douglas, Joshua and Caitlin. Great grandfather of Maya. A quiet, elegant gentleman who never said a bad word about anyone, admired for good sense, optimism,
 LEVINSON--Ted. Of New York and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully December 26, 2004 at age 74. Graduate of the Pennington School, Class of 1948, and Lafayette College, Class of 1952. Beloved husband of the late Doris. Loving father of Harlan and Randy, and father-in-law of Jennifer. Adoring gr
 MAMMEN--Delbert. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Delbert Mammen, husband of Selma Mammen, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire famly. May his memory be for a blessing. June Walker, Nat'l President       
 MATLOWSKY--Norman D. On Tuesday, December 28, 2004, of West Palm Beach, FL., and Manalapan, NJ. Beloved husband of Sarah (nee Cassuto). Loving father of Helen Yagoda, Flora Smith and the late Madeline Matlowsky. Loving grandfather of Sarah and Emily Smith. Dear brother of the late Samuel Ma
 MUENCH--Fred. He was a good guy, we'll all miss him on the court and at the card game. It was not a good Christmas. Shafran Family MUENCH -- Frederick, 75 years of quality. Fred went from rooting for the Brooklyn Dodgers and playing stickball in Queens to rooting for the Mets and pl
 NACHT--Howard. On December 27, 2004. Survived by his loving wife Eva of 39 years. Mr. Nacht was a WWII veteran and having earned a Master's degree in chemical engineering spent his entire career in the diamond and jewelry business. Funeral service today at 3:30PM at the ''Riverside Memorial
 PELULLO--Peter F. A WWII veteran who honorably served in the U.S. Army 283rd Battalion, passed away December 28, 2004. He is the beloved husband of Louise R. (nee Nicoletti), loving father of Leonard (Linda), Peter (Jane), Arthur (Barbara), Angela Slade, Marylouise Jalilvand and Salvatore (
 RAPPOPORT--Murray. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Murray Rappoport. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, President       
 REICH--Nathaniel E., noted cardiologist, on December 28, 2004. Devoted husband of Joan, father of Andrew and Matthew. Explorer, lover of life, International Man of the Year for Medicine, 1999-2000 from his alma mater, Rush Medical College. He will be missed. Funeral service 11 A.M. Wednesda
 SCHER--Sidney M. Passed away peacefully at home on December 27, 2004 at age 91. He will be dearly missed by all his family and friends. Mostly by his lifetime partner and friend, Michael Moro. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 WIESENTHAL--Joseph. On December 27. Husband of Audrey Bloch and the late Coralee. Father of Eric (Eileen) and Sara McGinty (Tony). Grandfather of Alice, Lucy, Kyle and Dani. Services at Central Synagogue, 55th and Lexington Ave., December 29 at 1 PM. For those who wish, memorial contributio
 Jerry Orbach, who won fame on the New York stage as one of the last bona fide leading men of the Broadway musical and global celebrity on television as a New York detective on NBC's ''Law & Order,'' died on Tuesday night. He was 69. Mr. Orbach died at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
 BAUER--Jacob, M.D., on December 29, 2004 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Ursula. Devoted father of Drs. Bertha and Bernard. Grandfather of Emily. Brother of Joseph and uncle to many nieces and nephews. Dr. Bauer was an esteemed member of the Brooklyn medical community and practiced
 BENARDO--Dr. Larry S. SUNY Downstate Medical Center mourns the loss of faculty member Dr. Larry S. Benardo, Vice Chair of the Department of Neurology, director of the Epliepsy Center, and professor of neurology and of physiology and pharmacology. Dr. Benardo, an accomplished scientist and c
 FREUND--Max. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, former Co-Chairman of our Firm, Chairman of the Litigation Department, and our partner and counsel for more than 72 years. We remember with affection his remarkable intellect, wit, degree of knowledge and loyalty. Our condolence
 KAHN--Dr. David, died December 27, 2004, at age 92, after a rich and wonderful life. Devoted husband of Carrol, beloved father of Wendy Kahn (Martin Burns) and Susan (Jeffrey) Stern, cherished grandfather of Jacob Burns, Michael and Peter Stern. Caring physician, dedicated teacher and leade
 LANDAU--Martin, peacefully passed away the evening of Dec 27, 2004, surrounded by his wife of 61 years, Bernice F. Landau (Bobbie), his oldest daughter Madeline Landau, a political anthropologist, and his youngest daughter Claudia Landau, MD, gerontology. Marty Landau (as he would say, ''th
 LEVINSON--Ted. Of New York and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully December 26, 2004 at age 74. Graduate of the Pennington School, Class of 1948, and Lafayette College, Class of 1952. Beloved husband of the late Doris. Loving father of Harlan and Randy, and father-in-law of Jennifer. Adoring gr
 LILLY--Edward R. President Gregory H. Williams and The City College of New York offer deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Professor Edward R. Lilly of the CCNY School of Education on his recent passing.       
 NATHAN--Conrado (Kurt) on December 27th, at 79 years of age. A banker for 23 years in both Argentina and the USA. Survived by his wife, Dolly for 52 years; daughter Monica and her husband Francesco and grandson Maximilian Mancini; and son Paul and his wife Marcy and granddaughter Carly Nath
 NATKINS -- Mortimer J. Peacefully at home in Naples, Florida, surrounded by his family. Longtime resident of Great Neck, and, for 54 summers, Lake Oscawana in Putnam Valley, NY. Beloved husband of Elaine and the late Lucille Goldberg Natkins; generous, proud and sweet father of Amy, Priscil
 ORBACH--Jerry. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member and Honorary Officer Jerry Orbach. Jerry was a consummate Friar who shared his talent with the world. His contributions to the world of entertainment were immeasu
 SIPSER--Morris. The officers and staff of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Morris Sipser, a founding professional of the organization. After serving in important executive posts in Miami and Philadelphia, Morris achieved the top staff position of Executive Vice President and National Campa
 SMOLEN--Sol. On December 29, 2004. Died after a long battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Schlesinger). He will be missed by his family and his many friends, especially at the 92nd Street Y. Decorated veteran of WWII. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the 60 Plus C
 STACKMAN--Howard. Dear Poppy, you will be missed by each of us in our own very special way. When we needed you the most you filled the void of our lives with your love, laughter and support. We shared so many wonderful times with you that we will never forget. Those memories will be cherish
 STONE--Albert, of Tenafly, NJ. Loving husband of Elinore, father of Steven (Marcia), grandfather of Jonathan, brother of Charles (Edna). Private graveside service, family only. Navy veteran. Businessman. He was the man who could fix anything, except on this day our broken hearts. Donations 
 WEINER -- Seymour (Sy). Born February 22, 1924 in the Bronx, N.Y. died Thursday, December 23, 2004 in Boca Raton, FL where he lived. He was married for 55 years to his loving wife Sara Sue Weiner. He is survived by Sara as well as his dear sister-in-law and brother-in-law and his nieces and
 Artie Shaw, the jazz clarinetist and big-band leader who successfully challenged Benny Goodman's reign as the King of Swing with his recordings of ''Begin the Beguine,'' ''Lady Be Good'' and ''Star Dust'' in the late 1930's, died yesterday at his home in Newbury Park, Calif. He was 94.     
 Julius Axelrod, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist who helped to discover how chemicals released by nerve cells in the brain regulate mood and behavior, died on Wednesday at his home in Rockville, Md., the National Institute of Mental Health, where he worked for most of his career, said. He wa
 BAUER--Jacob, M.D., on December 29, 2004 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Ursula. Devoted father of Drs. Bertha and Bernard. Grandfather of Emily. Brother of Joseph and uncle to many nieces and nephews. Dr. Bauer was an esteemed member of the Brooklyn medical community and practiced
 CONNORS--Msgr. Edward F. A great priest who brought compassion, moderation, wisdow and love to his preaching and teaching too. He is missed and mourned in Westchester and beyond... and instructs us still. Nancy Curry and William O'Shaughnessy       
 GLASER -- Miles Rudolph. Died peacefully on December 24, 2004 at M.D. Anderson Hospital after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in Prague, Czechoslovakia on May 2, 1925 he was the son of Dr. Oskar and Marketa Glaser, both of whom perished in the concentration camps. Miles survived three
 LANDAU--Alan Martin, age 62 died December 25, 2004. the author of Airborne Rangers; he was a self-employed writer and photographer; his works appeared in various national magazines. He is survived by his wife Frieda Landau; a brother Peter Landau; an aunt Miriam Wagner. Burial will take pla
 LEVINSON--Ted. Of New York and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully December 26, 2004 at age 74. Graduate of the Pennington School, Class of 1948, and Lafayette College, Class of 1952. Beloved husband of the late Doris. Loving father of Harlan and Randy, and father-in-law of Jennifer. Adoring gr
 MILLER--Andrew J., 63, of Atlanta, formerly Old Greenwich, CT, died on December 28. Survived by wife Donna, son Drew, daughter and sonin-law Valerie and Joe Keith, grandchildren Peter, Daniel and Julia, mother Gene Miller, sister Nancy Davis. Memorial donations to SloanKettering Cancer Cent
 MILLS--Milton. Of Yorktown Heights died on Wednesday December 29, 2004. He was 91. Mr. Mills was born December 4, 1913 in Providence, RI to Charles and Anna Mills. Locally he was a former Board member of Condo 3 and Jefferson Owners Corporation in Jefferson Village Condominiums. Mr. Mills w
 MODLIN--Joe. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of Joe Modlin. We extend to his son, Barrie Modlin, former Executive Director, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the B
 MURPHY--Justin. The Downtown-Lower Manhattan Association (D-LMA) offers its deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Justin Murphy, who served as our esteemed president from 1975 through 1989. He was revered and will be well-remembered for his dedicated service and commitment to the do
 ORBACH--Jerry. North Shore Animal League America mourns the passing of our friend, Jerry Orbach. He was a champion of all animal causes, a down to earth guy, a real mensch. The League was honored to bestow on him our Legendary Bond Award. We will miss him terribly. Our heartfelt sympathies 
 SILBERSTEIN--William, a devoted family man and a passionate and accomplished athlete, who after an extraordinary career as an entrepreneur, generously devoted his life to philanthropy, died Wednesday night at New York University Medical Center. He was 88. Born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1916, Silb
 WARD--Elmer L., Jr. On December 14, 2004. Father of five children and the late Toby Ward. He will be missed by all. Your daughter Alison       
 WEINSTOCK--Stanley L. Age 74. Of Boynton Beach, FL, passed away December 29, 2004. Survived by his loving wife, Connie, brother Julie and daughters Melissa (Donald), Jacqueline, Marcy (Jeffrey), Rachele (Stuart), grandchildren Allie, Zoe, Anna, Sophie and Zachary. Donations may be made to M
 Rod Kanehl, a career minor leaguer who became a fan favorite at the Polo Grounds with the beloved but bumbling original Mets of 1962, died Dec. 14 at a hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, said his son-in-law, Jay Gussin. Losing 120 games
