 Air Vice Marshal Johnnie Johnson, the British fighter pilot who shot down 38 German planes, becoming the leading Allied air ace of World War II in Europe, died yesterday at his home in Derbyshire, England. He was 85. The cause was cancer, The Daily Telegraph reported. Flying
 BRAUNER-Stanley ''Buzz'', 70, musician, of Emerson, NJ, formerly of Paramus, beloved husband of Marilyn (nee Seltzer), devoted father of Stephen and Jeffrey and the ''girls they brought us'': Shari and Jennifer, loving grandfather of Matthew, Melissa, Ryan, Adam and Michael. Buzz played eve
 BRONK-Bernard. On Jan. 30, 2001. Beloved husband of Joan. Devoted father of Eric & Randi, Barbara & Bob Schrager, Berne & Samuel Webb, Bradford & Tana, David & Helen Mimeles, Michael Mimeles, Adam and Rachel Mimeles. Dear brother of Robert & Betty, Burton and Gerri. Loving grandfather of se
 HOGAN-Rev. Edward P. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of a retired priest of the Diocese on January 29. Reposing in Denis S. O'Connor Funeral Home, 91-05 Beach Channel Dr., Rockaway Beach, Friday, February 2 from 1-5 PM. Mass of Transferral at St. Thomas More-St. Edmund Church, 2
 KAHN-Arthur H. Of New York City & Philadelphia, died Jan. 30, 2001. Survived by his wife Donna S., their sons Robert B., Walter A., Andrew W. & four grandchildren. Mr. Kahn was a former Chairman of the law firm Schnader Harrison Segal & Lewis. Memorial Services will be held Thursday, Februa
 MAYMUDES-Victor the ''Village''. Philosopher who as mentor, manager and friend guided Bob Dylan down the road from obscurity to icon in the early sixties, died peacefully on January 26th 2001 in UCLA Hospital, Santa Monica, California. On that journey he was protected and comforted by the p
 MINK-Joseph. On January 31, 2001, in his 93rd year. Survived by his loving wife and best friend, Florence, loving father of Marilyn Mundus and the late Phyllis Krain, adored grandfather and greatgrandfather. Service Friday, February 2, 2001, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave a
 PERLESS-Meyer, C.P.A. 101, of Greenwich, CT, Bal Harbour, FL, and Manhattan Beach, NY, died January 29, 2001. After practicing accounting for seventy years, he retired at age 92. Predeceased by his dear wife, Ethel Glassman. He is survived by his loving son Robert and daughter-in-law Ellen,
 ROSENTHAL-Fred A., on January 30, 2001. Survived by his wife Edith, his children Charles, Susan and Alice, his eight grandchildren, his brother and his many friends and relations who will dearly miss him.       
 David Heneker, who wrote the score for the musical ''Half a Sixpence'' and collaborated on the English adaptation of the book and lyrics for ''Irma la Douce,'' died on Tuesday in a residential home in Wales. He was 94. ''Irma la Douce'' and ''Half a Sixpence'' were major successes i
 Davidson Sommers, a former chairman of the Equitable Life Assurance Society and World Bank official who had a keen interest in philanthropy, died on Dec. 17 at his home in Washington. He was 95. A graduate of Harvard Law School, Mr. Sommers joined the World Bank's legal department i
 O. Winston Link, a photographer whose requiem for steam railroading portrayed it as a spectacularly alive and often surreal presence in 1950's small-town America, died on Tuesday in South Salem, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Link's epiphany came in January 1955. While on assignment for an adv
 BELFER-Ira M. January 31, 2001. Attorney-at-law, Manhattan, at age 89. Beloved husband of Jean Belfer, to whom he was married for 62 years; devoted father of Myron and Peter and adored grandfather of Russell and Philip, and father-in-law of Sandra Belfer. Loving brother of the late Geraldin
 KARMIN-Dr. Leo R. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Cherished father of Andrew and Ann, and Heather and Harvey Melniker. Much loved & loving grandfather of Deborah and Robert, Sarah, Douglas and Carly. Services are today at I.J. Morris, Hempstead, at 10:30 AM. KARMIN-Dr. Leo. Temple Beth S
 KNIPPENBERG-Jack J. Age 59 years of Hawthorne, NJ. On Thursday, February 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Karin (nee Hoock). Loving father of Susan Knippenberg of Hoboken, NJ and Christine MacDougall of Langhorn, PA. Dear grandfather of Devon and Casey MacDougall. Brother of Sigi Sauthoff in Ger
 KRUENER-Rev. Harry H. Died January 23, 2001 at the age of 85 in Camden, Maine. Rev. Kruener was the Senior Minister at Plymouth Church of the Pilgrims from 1960-1984. He was a marvelous preacher who touched many with a spiritual message and taught many about faith. Rev. Kruener is survived 
 MINK-Joseph. On January 31, 2001, in his 93rd year. Survived by his loving wife and best friend, Florence, loving father of Marilyn Mundus and the late Phyllis Krain, adored grandfather and greatgrandfather. Service Friday, February 2, 2001, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave a
 YELLEN-Charles John. Beloved husband for 70 years, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He is survived by his wife, Sadie; Lloyd, Sunny and Rita, his five grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. His warm sense of humor will be greatly missed.       
 Chester A. Rapkin, an influential theorist of urban planning who came up with the novel designation SoHo for the rapidly changing community south of Houston Street in Manhattan, died on Sunday at a hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was 
 Edmund Fuller, a novelist, historian and literary critic, died on Monday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 86. A prolific writer, Mr. Fuller was the author of more than a dozen novels, histories and books of literary criticism. For 32 years he served as the chief book reviewer
 Murray Edelman, who in the 1960's and 70's helped pioneer a new approach to political science by arguing that the true importance of many political acts and institutions is often very different from what it seems, died on Jan. 26 in Madison, Wis. He was 81. Dr. Edelman was a profess
 Nicholas C. Forstmann, an investment banker and a philanthropist who was a founding partner of Forstmann Little & Company, the leveraged-buyout firm, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54. Last year, Mr. Forstmann was found to have small-cell lung cancer, a spokesman fo
 FORSTMANN-Nicholas C. On February 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Lana (nee Wolkonsky); adoring father of three children; dearest son of Dorothy Sammis; loving brother of Anthony, Theodore, John, Marina and Elissa; You will be forever missed and we will cherish your memory always. Friends may c
 GRAYBACK-George J. Of Lincoln Park, NJ on February 1, 2001. Survived by his loving wife Nola, his adoring children Gail and Fred, cherished grandchildren and stepchildren. Services are Sunday, 10:30 AM at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Route 4 East, Paramus, New Jersey.       
 HECKELMAN-Rabbi A. Joseph. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. After ordination he made aliyah and became the founding rabbi of the Conservative/Masorti community in Safed, a position he held until his death and also served as president of the Rabbinical As
 LEVIN-Lester. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, Pres. Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi       
 ZIMMERMANN-Rabbi Frank. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. He served several pulpits in the New York area, after which he became chair of the department and professor of Bible at Dropsie college in Philadelphia. He was the author of many books including ''
 Alfred J. Koeppel, an executive in one of the oldest real estate families in New York and a former board chairman at Trinity College, died of cancer on Jan. 19 at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. He was 68. Mr. Koeppel, who lived in a town house apartment on the Upper East Si
 Dr. Cesare Maltoni, an Italian oncologist who identified cancer risks in the workplace and campaigned for stricter factory health codes, died on Jan. 22 at his home in Bologna, Italy. He was 70. He had suffered heart disease for some time but had continued to work, said the Collegiu
 The Rev. Harry H. Kruener, former senior minister of Plymouth Church of the Pilgrims in Brooklyn Heights, died on Jan. 23 at a nursing home in Camden, Me. He was 85 and lived in nearby South Thomaston. From 1960 to 1984, Mr. Kruener led the historic Congregational church, founded in
 AMES-George J. Financier and philanthropist, died on Friday, February 2, 2001, at his home in Rye, NY. He was 83 years old. Mr. Ames was a Limited Managing Director of Lazard Freres and Company, LLC. Surviving are his wife Bess R. Ames of Rye, NY, four daughters, Ruth A. Solie of Northampto
 ARNOW-Aron, MD. Died December 31. A surgeon during WWII, after the death of his wife and child, Leah and Salomea, he emigrated from Poland to the U.S. He married Tessa Winkler and they lived together for 50 years until her death in 1999. He was a respected psychiatrist, practicing in Syracu
 ASBELL-Bernard. The American Society of Journalists and Authors (ASJA) mourns the passing of past president (1963-1964) Bernard Asbell. A member of ASJA for over 40 years, his contributions to the Society were many and varied. He will be greatly missed.       
 BELFER-Ira M. January 31, 2001. Attorney-at-law, Manhattan, at age 89. Beloved husband of Jean Belfer, to whom he was married for 62 years; devoted father of Myron and Peter and adored grandfather of Russell and Philip, and father-in-law of Sandra Belfer. Loving brother of the late Geraldin
 BERNHARD-Nate. Of Margate, FL, formerly of Port Washington, NY, on February 3, 2001. Predeceased by Frances his beloved wife of 47 years. Survived by his daughter Amy Smith and her husband Howard and their children Jeffrey and Stephanie, his son Steven and his wife Kathy and their children 
 BORTZ-Bernard J. Devoted son of the late Fanny Bortz. Loving husband of the late Phyllis Elkin Bortz. Beloved father of Joyce G. Fiedler and John G. and Jean G. Bortz. Loving father-in-law of Jeffrey Fiedler and Laurie Kaplan. Devoted grandfather of Jessica and Candra Fiedler and Rebeccah a
 BREKKA - Thomas Thorwald. 1928-2001. Tom Brekka died the evening of January 25th doing what he loved best, taking one of his twice-daily strolls around the neighborhood. He loved looking up into the mountains to see if there was snow on top and looking in the sky to see the airplanes he kne
 FISHMAN - Samuel, D.D.S. 1914-2001. Graduate of NYU Dental School 1938. WWII veteran. Practiced dentistry in the Second District for 50 years. Survived by his devoted, grieving family; wife Dubby, daughter Nancy, son Cary and wife Dorothy.       
 FORSTMANN-Nicholas C. On February 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Lana (nee Wolkonsky); adoring father of three children; dearest son of Dorothy Sammis; loving brother of Anthony, Theodore, John, Marina and Elissa; You will be forever missed and we will cherish your memory always. Friends may c
 GOODYEAR-Laurence Rumsey, Jr. Rummy died suddenly on February 2, 2001. He leaves behind his wife, Lorraine Gallard, his children, Lauren Goodyear Schramm, Laurence (Jake) Goodyear, Cameron Goodyear, Dana Goodyear and Solomon Kuckelman; his son-in-law J.B. Schramm; his sister Wendy Griswold;
 GREENFIELD-William, D.D.S. On February 1, 2001. Cherished husband of Elyse nee Bloom. Loving father of Linda Plotnick of Merrick N.Y. and David Greenfield, M.D. of Boca Raton, FL. Devoted fatherin-law of Nina and Steven. Adoring grandfather of Jason and Joshua. A leader in dental anesthesio
 HOLLISTER-Leo E., M.D. 80, Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry and Pharmacology at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston, passed away December 19, 2000. He was also a professor Emeritus of Medicine, Psychiatry and Pharmacology at Stanford University School of Medicine. Notes and re
 KRUG-Henry A. Of Maplewood, NJ, on February 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Sylvia (Harrison). Devoted father and father-in-law of Dr. Robert and Marjorie Krug and Neil and Shelley Krug. Cherished brother of the late Norman Krug and the late Ann Trachtenberg. Loving grandfather of Dana and Stev
 LANE-Joseph F. Sr. Retired Police Commissioner of Long Beach, NY on February 2, 2001 in Mesa, Arizona. He was 82 and had been in ailing health since his move to Arizona three years ago. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Clark). Loving father of Joseph F. (Martha), Thomas P., Kevin P. (Maliss
 LINEN-Edwin K. 86. Of Rye, NY on February 2, after a long battle with emphysema. Mr. Linen was a former Officer and Director of Todd Shipyards Corporation, from which he retired in 1982 after 50 years of service. He is survived by three daughters: Sr. Barbara Linen, SHCJ of Rye, NY; Adrienn
 LINK-O. Winston. In lasting memory of O. Winston Link who boarded the train for eternal peace on January 30th. Winston was a spectacular photographer who saw life through a unique lens. We are blessed that he helped focus our lives. Mary Bachmann, Ken Citarella Tom Garver, George Hampton Ge
 LOWLICHT-Martin. Of Manhasset, NY. On Feb. 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Claire. Loving father of Nan and Ben Hall of Tiverton, RI., and Dr. Roger and Dr. Kay of Pine Orchard, CT. Dearest grandfather to Elizabeth and Caroline Hall and Harrison and Spencer Lowlicht. Services on February 4, 1:0
 NICHOLAS-Frederick S. Died peacefully January 30, 2001 in Bryn Mawr, PA, aged 90. Born in Syosset, NY, the son of Dorothy and Harry Nicholas. Educated at St. Paul's School, Concord, NH and Harvard University. Mr. Nicholas's career was in the textile industry. In 1942, he joined the Navy and
 PIERRAKOS-Dr. John Constantine. Of New York City, left this world for the next on February 1, 2001, seven days before his 80th birthday. He is survived by his daughter Magdalen Pierrakos.       
 RENNERT-William J. On February 2, 2001, of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of Gloria Spamer Rennert. Loving father of Sherry Rennert Kreek of Bronxville and Brooks Rennert Wright of Rye. Cherished grandfather of Carolyn and Katherine Kreek and Christian Wright, and his favorite dog, Belle. I
 SCHLEIFER-Alvin H. ''Bud''. Of London, England, New York and Wellington, FL on February 2, 2001 following complications from open heart surgery. Beloved husband of Fleur. Devoted father of Nicola, Tracy and Kerry. Dear brother of James Sheldon. Uncle to James Jr. and Tony Sheldon. Services 
 SHAPOFF-Mary. The leadership of Continuum Health Partners joins with the physicians and staff of its member hospitals in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Mary Shapoff, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Edward Shapoff, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Offi
 SICHROVSKY-Karel. The information provided for Mr. Sichrovsky's obituary that appeared on Sunday, January 28, misstated the last year he attended Charles University in Prague. It was February 1948, not 1949.       
 SPENGLER-Silas. A retired New York City lawyer and a former resident of Bronxville, N.Y. died January 31 at his home in Middleton, WI. Beloved husband of Anna M. (Sandy) and loving father of Silas of Nassau, Bahamas and Harry of Dover, N.H., proud grandfather of Silas William Spengler of Na
 VAN EES-Donald. 80, on January 26, 2001, after a prolonged and agonizing illness endured with equanimity and great courage. Requiescat in Pace. Remembered always by his wife, Evelyn and his son, Van.       
 Robert Lee, the first and only chief of chiefs of New Orleans Mardi Gras Indian tribes, died on Jan. 19 at a New Orleans hospital. He was 85. The Mardi Gras Indians are an exuberant but lesser known ingredient in the zestful recipe for the renowned pre-Lenten celebration in New Orle
 Tom Lea, a West Texas artist and writer whose work was called inspirational by President Bush, then governor of Texas, in his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention in August, died on Monday in El Paso. He was 93. In the 1930's, Mr. Lea, a landscape painter, produce
 Dr. M. Powell Lawton, a leading researcher on aging and the physical and psychological needs of the elderly, died on Jan. 29 at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. He was 77 and a former resident of nearby Collegeville. The cause was a brain tumor, said the Philadelphia Geriatr
 Iannis Xenakis, the Greek-French composer who often used highly sophisticated scientific and mathematical theories to arrive at music of primitive power, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 78. He had been in poor health for several years and lapsed into a coma several days 
 AMES-George J. Financier and philanthropist, died on Friday, February 2, 2001, at his home in Rye, NY. He was 83 years old. Mr. Ames was a Limited Managing Director of Lazard Freres and Company, LLC. Surviving are his wife Bess R. Ames of Rye, NY, four daughters, Ruth A. Solie of Northampto
 ANDERSEN-Per Meyer, 60. Interpublic Group of Companies brought him from Copenhagen to the Strategy Workshop on Madison Avenue. His journey ended on January 23, 2001. His surviving family is wife, Sita Andersen; brother, Finn Andersen; father, Jacob Andersen and devoted Aussies, Patches and 
 DUKE-Michael T. On Friday, February 2, 2001, in Greenwich, CT. Beloved husband of Pamela Phillips Duke. Loving father of Colleen, Christine, Coreen and Michael Duke Jr. Former President and CEO of Volvo Finance North America in Montvale, NJ, and was the President and CEO of Auto Shops on th
 FORSTMANN-Nicholas C. On February 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Lana (nee Wolkonsky); adoring father of three children; dearest son of Dorothy Sammis; loving brother of Anthony, Theodore, John, Marina and Elissa; You will be forever missed and we will cherish your memory always. Friends may c
 GAY-William (Bill). On February 2, 2001. Loving husband of Elizabeth, son of the late Frank and Rose O'Brien Gay. He was born on July 12, 1904, in Hudson Falls, NY. He was a teacher and swimming instructor for the NYC Department of Education. He was also the swimming coach for the NYAC Satu
 GOODMAN-Ralph S. A former prosecuting attorney for the US Department of Justice at the Nuremberg Trials in 1946. He is survived by his daughter Clara Connor and his son Berk Goodman, six grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. Visitation 2-6 PM, Tuesday, at the Cassidy-Flynn Funeral Home,
 HARGETT-Charles E. R.N., M.A. Died January 29, 2001. Beloved brother of Katie Hargett and Janet Hargett of Montclair, CA. Former executive director of the New York Counties Registered Nurses Association. Active in civic affairs. Held in high esteem by many. He will truly be missed.       
 HERMAN-Sidney. ''The Godfather of Music Publishing.'' Died Saturday at age 87. He was the Executive Vice President for Famous Music Corporation for 70 years. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Margaret, son Steven and a daughter, Barbara, and four grandchildren. Visitation Monday, 7-9 
 MARGOLIS-Allan. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the untimely passing of our dear friend, Allan Margolis, a member of our National Commission. A longtime leader and generous supporter of the League, Allan was active on many ADL committees and served as Chairman of our Florida Regional Boar
 MESSING - Andrew. Age 52, passed away peacefully on Saturday, February 3, at his home in Lake Worth, FL. Born in Short Hills, NJ, Andy was the founder and operator of National Groundcover, Inc., a company with an innovative and trend setting approach to the installation of landscaping appli
 PFLUGFELDER-Frederick J. Of Bay Shore, NY. Peacefully on February 3, 2001. Mr. Pflugfelder proudly served in the U.S. Merchant Marines during WW II. He was a member of the New York Stock Exchange since 1945. Devoted husband of Margaret. Much loved father of Noel Oakes and brother of Alice P
 REIMAN-Solomon. February 4, 2001. At age 91. With his keen intelligence and humor he was a treasure to his family and friends. Cherished husband of Blanche, father of Elaine Byron, and Stuart and Dolores Reiman. Brother of Ethel and Max Saslow. Stepfather of Marcia and Gerald Mondschein. Gr
 RICKETTS-James. Actor, songwriter and environmentalist, born May 11, 1948, raised in Weston, CT; died January 27, 2001, in his NYC home. Mr. Ricketts attended the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in NYC. He was a U.S. Army veteran who interrupted his performing career to serve his country 
 SHELLENBERGER - Donald J. Age 75, of Brewster, MA, in Hyannis, MA, on Friday, February 2, 2001. Husband of Jeanne (Klein) Shellenberger. Father of David E. Shellenberger of NYC, and Susan G. S. Bowers of NYC. Brother of Jack Shellenberger of Virginia and Rolfe Shellenberger of Palm Desert, 
 SPENGLER-Silas. The Yale College Class of 1953 mourns the loss of our most esteemed and beloved classmate. Si was our leader and class secretary for almost 40 years. His wisdom, humanity, good humor, and gentlemanly kindness were the hallmarks of a man of rare character. We extend our sympa
 Samuel H. Day Jr., a journalist and  opponent of nuclear weapons who led a leftist magazine in a landmark First Amendment court battle over the publication of an article on the hydrogen bomb, died on Jan. 26 of a stroke. He was 74 and lived in Madison, Wis. Mr. Day was managing edit
 Gilbert Trigano, who in the 1950's developed the concept of vacation clubs that later made Club Med synonymous with fake Polynesian villages and organized fun, died on Saturday after a long illness, his family said. He was 80. Mr. Trigano, who supplied tents to Club Med in its early
 Herman Liveright, who was dismissed in 1956 as program director for the New Orleans television station WDSU after refusing to tell a Senate panel whether he was a Communist, died on Jan. 19 in a hospital in Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 89, lived in Lenox, Mass., and spent winters in Texas.  
 J. J. Johnson, the most influential trombonist in postwar jazz, died on Sunday at his home in Indianapolis. He was 77. The Marion County Sheriff's Department reported the death as a suicide. Mr. Johnson translated the fast, linear style of bebop to the trombone in the late 1
 AMES-George J. Financier and philanthropist, died on Friday, February 2, 2001, at his home in Rye, NY. He was 83 years old. Mr. Ames was a Limited Managing Director of Lazard Freres and Company, LLC. Surviving are his wife Bess R. Ames of Rye, NY, four daughters, Ruth A. Solie of Northampto
 BARASH-Ernest S., M.D. On February 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Lee (Fenichel). Devoted father of Peter, Anne, James and father-inlaw of Eric Holzwarth. Cherished grandfather to Michael Holzwarth and Steven Barash. Services Tuesday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
 CLARK-Howard L. It is with deep sorrow that the Directors, Managers and employees of American Express company mourn the passing of Howard L. Clark on February 2 at the age of 84. Mr. Clark was Chief Executive Officer of American Express from 1960 to 1977, a time of great expansion and succe
 FISHER-Larry. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Larry Fisher, a dear friend who was greatly admired for his extraordinary generosity. A dynamic real estate magnate and beloved philanthropist, he left a legacy that w
 FORSTMANN-Nicholas C. It is with profound sorrow that we mourn the untimely passing of a courageous and loving man. We were blessed to have been touched by his dignity, wisdom and playful charm. A caring mentor and true friend who met life with optimism, kindness and generosity. Our prayers
 GOODYEAR-Laurence Rumsey, Jr. Rummy died suddenly on February 2, 2001. He leaves behind his wife, Lorraine Gallard, his children, Lauren Goodyear Schramm, Laurence (Jake) Goodyear, Cameron Goodyear, Dana Goodyear and Solomon Kuckelman; his son-in-law J.B. Schramm; his sister Wendy Griswold;
 HERZMAN-Stanley. On February 3, 2001, at age 94. Beloved husband of the late Gladys and the late Adele. Loving father of Carol Fishman and stepfather of Lucia Scott and Guy Thomas. Grandfather of four and great grandfather of three. Devoted brother of Ruth Abel. Interment private. Memorial 
 KOEPPEL-Alfred J. We would like to express our sadness at the early passing of our friend, Alfred J. Koeppel, a man of honesty, ability, warmth and friendliness. Known to some of us for a half century, the Cohens, Roos', and Carmels, and many others at GVA Williams, are fortunate to have th
 LANE-Joseph F. Sr. Retired Police Commissioner of Long Beach, NY on February 2, 2001 in Mesa, Arizona. He was 82 and had been in ailing health since his move to Arizona three years ago. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Clark). Loving father of Joseph F. (Martha), Thomas P., Kevin P. (Maliss
 LESTER-Abraham J. Died in New York City on February 5, 2001 in his 95th year. Loving husband to Yetta, beloved father of Ann Stone and the late Elaine Isenberg, father-in-law of Leon Stone, grandfather to Julie, Hal, Susan, Tom, Stephanie, Marc and Paul. Great grandfather to Chelsea and Sam
 MOSLE-A. Henry, died January 31. He leaves behind daughter, Cassandra; son, Douglas; former wife, Lynn O'Shaughnessy, friends and family. He is also mourned by his best friend, Lilly Leonardis. He was a loving father, a devoted friend, and a sharp observer of the world and its foibles. We w
 OBERWAGER-Karl. Beloved husband, left us on Feb. 4, one month after his hundredth birthday. Survived by his loving and devoted wife, Susie; his family in Israel and Mexico, and numerous friends who all loved him. My life is diminished without him. Yours always, Susie and his poodle, Giselle
 ROSSETTI-Andrew Joseph. Student and dear friend to many, on February 3, 2001. On behalf of the students and faculty of Hopkins School, we wish to offer our deepest condolences to his family, especially his sister Paige, our schoolmate. Andrew was a guiding light to all who had the privilege
 SCHNEIER-Sidney. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, and great grandfather. Father of Eileen Lauer, our outstanding nursery teacher and director of our day camp. Grandfather of Neil Lauer and Rachel Lauer Verbov, alumni of our yeshiva. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zio
 SCHWARTZ-Harry. With his keen intelligence and humor he was a treasure to his family and friends. He served in the Marine Corps during World War II and was a graduate of NYU and a recipient of a Yale University Fellowship. He was the youngest and first Jewish president of the National House
 SNELL-Frank M. Jr., eighty, formerly of New York City, died February 3, 2001 in Bath, Maine. Mr. Snell was an account executive with several New York City advertising agencies for many years. Surviving are his wife, Majella M. Snell of Bath, ME; his children, Christopher Snell of Mill Valle
 SPENGLER-Silas. His devotion to clients, attention to legal draftsmanship and high ethical standards were examples followed by all who had the privilege to work with him. A graduate of Andover, Yale College, and University of Pennsylvania Law School, Mr. Spengler began his practice at Simps
 STIEREN-Arthur Tewes Stieren, Jr. passed away on Sunday, February 4, 2001 at the age of 71. The cause of death was lung cancer. He was born in San Antonio, Texas on October 24, 1929 to Arthur Tewes Stieren and Elizabeth Huth. He attended Alamo Heights schools and graduated from Culver Milit
 SWIGER-Reverend Msgr. Charles W. Pastor of St. Kilian R.C. Church, Farmingdale, on February 4, 2001. Beloved son of Elizabeth C. Swiger and the late Charles W. Swiger, Sr. Dear brother of Susan Swiger Munch and Terrence C. Swiger and brother-in-law of Roger Munch and Mary Swiger. Loving nep
 TOMASHEFSKY-William. Former President of the Thomas Button Company, Inc., died Saturday, February 3. Survived by his beloved wife Rena, loving brother Lawrence. Adored uncle to his many nieces, nephews and grandnieces and grandnephews. Interment at Beth Israel Cemetery in New Jersey.       
 TWERSKY-David, Grand Rabbi. A distinguished and respected Hasidic leader who has guided thousands with counsel and referrals on matters of medical health and domestic affairs. A scion of the royal family of Tzchernobel, he was affectionately called the Skwere Rebbe of Boro Park. He is survi
 WAGNER-George, Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of a revered colleague of over four decades. A brilliant cantor with a magnificent voice, he quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of his congregation, Beth Yeshurun of Houston, Texas, for over 47 years with
 WEINSTEIN - Philip. Respected lawyer and counselor, beloved husband of the late Molly, brother to Nancy, father to Elaine and David, grandfather to Matthew, uncle and patriarch to many, friend and neighbor. He passed peacefully in his sleep on February 5, 2001. Phil served his country proud
 Rodolfo Morales, whose surreal paintings of rural Mexican culture won acclaim around the world, died last Tuesday in Oaxaca. He was 75. He was being treated for pancreatic cancer, according to news reports in Mexico. Mr. Morales was born in 1925 in a small Indian village in 
 Howard L. Clark, a visionary executive who helped transform the American Express Company into a modern corporate giant, died on Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 84. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his son Howard L. Clark Jr. When Mr. Clark was named president
 Larry Fisher, the last of the founding Fisher Brothers, a real estate dynasty that did much to reshape the Manhattan skyline, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 93 and also lived in Manhattan. At his death he was senior partner in a business that ranks among the l
 Norbert V. Osterland, the former president of Sperry & Hutchinson, the company that distributed S&H green stamps, died on Jan. 20 at his home in Souderton, Pa. He was 81. The cause was a stroke, his daughter, Jill Prescott, said. Mr. Osterland was named vice president for op
 AMES-George. The Camp Rising Sun community mourns the passing of a cherished friend. George was our first camper and went on to serve as music counselor, camp director, and then Director, President and Chairman of the Louis August Jonas Foundation. We will miss his guiding spirit, wise coun
 BARASH-Ernest S., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing colleague and friend. Dr. Barash began his residency in Orthopedics at Mount Sinai in 1954. He dedicated his life to teaching and to the care of his patients. He
 BARNETT-Louis M. Beloved husband of the late Estelle. Devoted father of Barbara Barnett and the late Ruth Barnett Petrakos. Loving grandfather of Avra and Marina and other friends close to his heart. Service will be held privately.       
 BASCHKIN-Bernard Boris. Of Rye, died February 5, 2001. Age 73. Born December 31, 1927 in Berlin, Germany to Esay and Anna Poliakoff Baschkin. Immigrated to New York in Spring 1939. Graduated Syracuse University 1952. On August 7, 1955 he married his beloved and adored Millicent (nee d. Auer
 CLARKE-Laurence Warner, Jr. Age 77, of Greenwich, CT and Ocean Ridge, FL, died peacefully on February 3, 2001. He was a graduate of Philips Exeter Academy and Yale University. He was a former member of the New York Stock Exchange. He is survived by his wife, Helen, 2 sons Langdon and Lauren
 FISHER-Larry. The Simon Wiesenthal Center and its Board of Trustees extend their sincerest condolences to Kathleen and the entire Fisher family on the death of Larry. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know of no further sorrow for a long time. Rabbi Marvin Hi
 FORSTMANN-Nicholas C. The Cancer Research Fund expresses its profound sorrow to the Forstmann family. Nicholas Forstmann was not only a brilliant businessman, but an important philanthropist. His impact was great on the field of cancer research and his legacy will help the lives of future g
 GEFFEN-Louis. U.S. Army Honor Guard carried the flag draped coffin of Louis Geffen, WWII prosecutor of Japanese war criminals, to his grave next to his parents, Rabbi and Mrs. Tobias Geffen. Three volleys fired and taps sounded. Died on January 23, 2001 at 96 in Atlanta, Georgia; devoted hu
 HERZMAN-Stanley. On February 3, 2001, at age 94. Beloved husband of the late Gladys and the late Adele. Loving father of Carol Fishman and stepfather of Lucia Scott and Guy Thomas. Grandfather of four and great grandfather of three. Devoted brother of Ruth Abel. Interment private. Memorial 
 KNOPF-Robert Fulton. DDS, of Northport (formerly of Roslyn and Roads End Farm, Brookville). On February 4, 2001. Golfer, fisherman, racehorse owner and avid Yankees and Knicks fan. Robert served as a Captain in the Army with the 76th Infantry Division in World War II. He participated in the
 LESTER-Abraham J. Died in New York City on February 5, 2001 in his 95th year. Loving husband to Yetta, beloved father of Ann Stone and the late Elaine Isenberg, father-in-law of Leon Stone, grandfather to Julie, Hal, Susan, Tom, Stephanie, Marc and Paul. Great grandfather to Chelsea and Sam
 OBERWAGER-Karl. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and Benefactor Karl Oberwager on February 4, 2001, shortly after his 100th birthday. Together with Susie, his beloved wife of 53 years, the 
 PARKER-Phillip. On February 5, 2001. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member Phillip, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife Rose. Board of Governors, Lowell Kwiat, President       
 ROSSINI-Julius. 72, Deceased February 6. Adoring husband of Margaret, loving father to Kim, Ralph, & son-in-law Joel, faithful brother to Lou and Delia, and phenomenal grandfather to Michael and Daniel. Jules, known throughout the publishing world as a marketing guru, began his successful c
 ROUSSO-David E. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn. Loving father of Eli and Judith, Sandra and Eli and Harilyn and Gene. Cherished grandfather of Suzanne, Linda, Evelyn, David, Terry-Ann, and Joseph. Devoted great-grandfather of Jessica, Jennifer, Charles, Nicole, Evan, Gabrielle, Kimberly
 RYAN-Daniel. At age 70. Retired Paper Handler for the New York Times from 1977 to 1997. Of Wayne, New Jersey. Formerly of Tournafulla, County Limerick, Ireland. Husband of Mary K. Ryan of Wayne. Loving father of Daniel J.A., John J. and Gina M. Daniel is predeceased by his daughter Regina, 
 SHUBERT-Irwin J. On February 6, 2001. Beloved husband of Carolee. Dear father of Brenda, Andrew, Peter, Michelle, John and Philip. Father-in-law to Deborah and Catherine. Adored grandfather of Justin, Raychel, Ilana, Jacob and Tyler. Dear brother of Florence (Sidney) Grossman, Thelma (Fred)
 STIEREN-Arthur Tewes Stieren, Jr. passed away on Sunday, February 4, 2001 at the age of 71. The cause of death was lung cancer. He was born in San Antonio, Texas on October 24, 1929 to Arthur Tewes Stieren and Elizabeth Huth. He attended Alamo Heights schools and graduated from Culver Milit
 SUSSMAN-Ira. Beloved husband of Ronna Sussman, loving son of Estelle Sussman, adored father of Joanne and Rob Stone, Amy and Neil Katz, David & Audry Eppner, Allison and Robert Bauer, Jeremy and Becky Sussman and cherished poppy of Jason & Jennifer, Jaclyn and David, Jacob, Harris & Phin an
 AMES-George J. New York Medical College is saddened by the passing of our colleague and friend, George J. Ames. A member of the Board of Trustees since 1990, he recently was awarded the William Cullen Bryant Medal, our most prestigious honor recognizing individuals who demonstrate national 
 ARFIELD-Larry. Born July 19, 1949 Beaver Falls, PA. Died February 5, 2001, New York City. Son of Julius and Clarissa Arfield. Brother of John Arfield of Philadelphia and uncle of Joshua and Jeremy Arfield of NYC. Devoted friend to many. MFA in Painting, Carnegie-Mellon University, 1975. Wor
 CLARK-Howard L. Philip Morris Companies, Inc., notes with sorrow the passing on February 2, 2001 of retired Philip Morris Board member, Howard L. Clark. Mr. Clark served as a member of the Philip Morris Board of Directors from 1986 until his retirement in 1990. His colleagues on the Board r
 FISCHER-Donald, Hazzan Dr. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the tragic passing of a revered colleague. A brilliant cantor, he quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of Congregation Netivot Shalom of Berkeley, Calif., for more than a decade. His kindness, his humanity and his 
 HERZMAN-Stanley. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stanley Herzman, a cherished friend to UJA-Federation and its affiliated agencies. His leadership and generosity have left an enduring mark on the Jewish community that will be fe
 LEVINE-Sheldon R. We mourn the passing our beloved uncle, Sheldon R. Levine, Uncle Shelly. While saddened by his far too early passing, we are honored to have shared in his life. Never to be forgotten, always to be remembered with love and a smile. From his loving nephews and nieces, David,
 MANES-Mathew. Respected lawyer and counselor, died February 7, 2001, in his 94th year. Beloved husband of Esther, father of Marthe, Cathy, and Laurie, fatherin-law of Bob and Rob, grandfather of Darcy, Lindy, Sarah, and David, brother-in-law of Sarah Sturim. Mentor, friend, inspiration. Pri
 MENAGH-Donald F. Feb. 7, 2001. Age 85. Beloved husband of Claire. Devoted father of Diane Menagh, and Douglas Menagh and his wife Lucille Falcone Menagh. Cherished grandfather of Douglas and Nancy. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Friday, February 9, 2-5 
 PETROVICH-William. A gentle caring man, died on February 1, 2001 at the age of 80, after a long battle with heart disease. Husband to Addie, father to Neva and Len and grandfather to Alex, he will be remembered for his good humor and courage.       
 ROUSSO-David E. We deeply regret the passing of our esteemed colleague, an honorary past treasurer and honorary chairman of the Dedications Committee of the Sephardic Home. David E. Rousso and his family were staunch and dedicated benefactors of the Sephardic Home since its inception 53 yea
 RYAN-Daniel. Age 70 of Wayne, NJ on February 4th 2001. Retired New York Times Paperhandler, formerly of Touraafulla, County Limerick, Ireland. Beloved husband of Mary Ryan of Wayne. Loving father of Daniel J.A., John J. and Gina M. Daniel is predeceased by his daughter Regina (1968). Dear b
 SPERBER-Abraham David. Born June 18, 1901, a resident of Hollywood, Florida, passed away at Memorial Regional Hospital on February 6, 2001, of natural causes. He is survived by his loving wife of over 41 years, Charlotte Delfiner; his daughter, Elizabeth Alland Sperber of Chico, CA, and his
 STIEREN-Arthur. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns the death of our good friend Arthur Stieren, a member of our official family for twenty years. His commitment to our company was invaluable, and we remember in particular his enthusiasm for the Wagner repertory. We extend our condole
 WHITE-Robert W. The Musicians, Trustees and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival join in celebrating the life of Dr. White, and extend their affection and sympathy to his son, David, and other family members. A devoted Marlboro Board member, Chairman of the Board (1970-73) and Tr
 Bernard Asbell, a writer on politics and government, a college professor and a folk singer, died on Feb. 1 in a hospital in State College, Pa., where he lived. He was 77. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Prof. Jean Brenchley. Mr. Asbell wrote 12 books, including ''Whe
 Clay Lancaster, whose trained eye and playful imagination illuminated the history of architecture, and whose 1961 book documenting the historic houses of Brooklyn Heights proved to be one of the earliest and loudest shots in the historic preservation struggle in New York City, died on Dec. 
 George J. Ames, a philanthropist and investment banker whose career at Lazard Frères & Company spanned more than 60 years, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was cancer, one of his daughters said. Mr. Ames first joined Lazard as a college student i
 H. Otto Hirschler, an electronics expert who helped build the complex controls of rockets to propel American astronauts to the moon, died on  Feb. 2 at his home in Huntsville, Ala. He was 87. Mr. Hirschler was one of the 118 German V-2 rocket engineers rounded up by the Allied autho
 Laurence R. Goodyear Jr., a former investment banker with Kidder Peabody and the Fiduciary Trust Company, died last Friday while on a hunting trip near Los Lunas, N.M., on the Rio Grande. Mr. Goodyear, a resident of Bethesda, Md., was 65. The cause of death was probably a stroke, sa
 Leon Beer Schachter, a union organizer, negotiator and former head of the Washington office of the Amalgamated Meatcutters and Butcher Workmen, died on Jan. 25 at a nursing home near Philadelphia. He was 91. Born in Romania, Mr. Schachter came to the United States as a teenager and 
 ARFIELD-Larry. Born July 19, 1949 Beaver Falls, PA. Died February 5, 2001, New York City. Son of Julius and Clarissa Arfield. Brother of John Arfield of Philadelphia and uncle of Joshua and Jeremy Arfield of NYC. Devoted friend to many. MFA in Painting, Carnegie-Mellon University, 1975. Wor
 KOECHEL-Paul F. Of Allentown, PA, and formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died on February 5, 2001. Husband of Amanda L. Koechel. Father to Lesley Lojko, Joan Lemen and Janet Koechel, and grandfather of five. He was a trust officer at the former Chemical Bank in Manhattan. A memorial service will be 
 MANES-Mathew. Respected lawyer and counselor, died February 7, 2001, in his 94th year. Beloved husband of Esther, father of Marthe, Cathy, and Laurie, fatherin-law of Bob and Rob, grandfather of Darcy, Lindy, Sarah, and David, brother-in-law of Sarah Sturim. Mentor, friend, inspiration. Pri
 MARSCHING-Ronald. Of Woodbury, CT. A 1950 graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law, Class of '53, died February 7. He was an attorney with the law firm of White & Case before becoming General Counsel and Secretary of the Timex Corporation. He retired in 1986 as Vice Chairman. He lea
 MENAGH-Donald F. Feb. 7, 2001. Age 85. Beloved husband of Claire. Devoted father of Diane Menagh, and Douglas Menagh and his wife Lucille Falcone Menagh. Cherished grandfather of Douglas and Nancy. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Friday, February 9, 2-5 
 Herbert A. Simon, an American polymath who won the Nobel in economics in 1978 with a new theory of decision making and who helped pioneer the idea that computers can exhibit artificial intelligence that mirrors human thinking, died yesterday. He was 84. He died at the Presbyterian U
 John Prebble, a writer and historian who specialized in the bloody battles that marked Scotland's past, died on Jan. 30 in London. He was 85. In books like ''Culloden'' (1961), ''The Highland Clearances'' (1963), ''Glencoe'' (1966) and ''The Darien Disaster'' (1968), Mr. Prebble wro
 BARASH-Ernest, MD. The Jewish Home and Hospital medical department and entire staff mourn the loss of Ernest Barash, MD, Chief of Orthopedics for more than 30 years. ''Ernie'' was a friend to many, an outstanding surgeon and clinician, a favorite teacher of the more than 2,000 students and 
 FIGATNER-Herman. Born on October 27, 1916, died February 7, 2001 in New Rochelle, New York. Beloved husband of Betsy. Father of Steven and Nancy. Grandfather of Julia, Jamal, Sarah and Dustin. Executive for 45 years at George Braziller Publishers. Concerned community member, he showed the w
 GEE MAH-Steven, on February 7, 2001. Beloved husband of 53 years to Wai Lin. Loving father of Shirley, Rita, Evelyn, Betty, Steven, and Robert. Adoring grandfather of eleven. He immigrated to the US at age 12, attended Brooklyn Polytechnic University. He was an Electrical Engineer at ATT We
 GERRITY-Joseph Warren, III. On Thursday, February 8, 2001. Joseph Warren Gerrity, III of Niskayuna, N.Y. Survived by his wife Anna Gerrity, his children, JoJo Gerrity and Andrea Grable, his son-in-law Dave Grable, his father Joe W. Gerrity, Jr. of Loudonville, N.Y., three brothers and 3 sis
 LESSER-David. Sincerest condolences to Dr. Jonathan Lesser on the passing of his father, David Lesser. Dr. Cohen, Dr. Digiacento, Dr. Perin, Dr. Sen, Dr. Williams Dept of Neurosurgery at SLRHC       
 MANES-Mathew. Respected lawyer and counselor, died February 7, 2001, in his 94th year. Beloved husband of Esther, father of Marthe, Cathy, and Laurie, fatherin-law of Bob and Rob, grandfather of Darcy, Lindy, Sarah, and David, brother-in-law of Sarah Sturim. Mentor, friend, inspiration. Pri
 PARRY - William H. Retired Professor of Law at New York's St. John's University School of Law and former senior partner at the old Brooklyn law firm of SM&DE Meeker. Died in the company of his wife on February 8, 2001 in Central Florida's Leesburg Regional Medical Center of congestive heart
 WHITE-Robert W. Of Weston formerly of Brookline, MA and Concord, MA., Marlborough, NH and Marboro, VT. February 6, 2001. Father of David W. White of Cambridge and Marlboro, VT. Uncle of Barbara and Sally Baker of Needham, MA., and Donald V. Baker of Beverly, MA. Many cousins and friends. Mr
 Robert E. Garis, a writer on dance, literature, music and film, died on Jan. 26 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 75. Mr. Garis was best known in recent years for his ballet criticism, published in Ballet Review, Partisan Review and other journals. He also wrote ''Following Bal
 Abraham D. Beame, an accountant and clubhouse Democrat who climbed the gray ranks of municipal bookkeeping and confounded oddsmakers to become mayor of New York in the mid-1970's, only to spend his term struggling with the worst fiscal calamity in the city's history, died yesterday at New Y
 Arthur W. Hummel Jr., who as ambassador to China from 1981 to 1985 negotiated an agreement on United States arms sales to Taiwan, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80. Under the joint communiqué in 1982, the United States stated its intention to reduce arms sale
 BETHEL-C. Mark. Sailor, sandhog, jeweler and entrepreneur, died on February 8, at the age of 72. Mark Bethel combined a lifelong love for reading with the grit of a compressed air worker, fine craftsmanship and the practical acumen of a successful businessman. His presence will be missed bu
 BUNNELL-Ptah. January 2001. Was feared by some, but loved by many, especially his family Keith and Bobby. He was so perfect.       
 CLARK-Richard C. Prominent NYC architect, died of cancer January 22, 2001. Devoted husband to Dolores. Beloved father of Elizabeth and Barbara. Cherished grandfather of Tyler and Allan. Born in 1928 and raised during the Depression in Hell's Kitchen, Richard ''Dick'' Clark was a proud son o
 DAVIS-Leonard. The arts have lost a dear friend and an extraordinary gentleman. Leonard Davis was one of the original members of the Kravis Center's Board of Directors. He, along with his beloved wife Sophie, who predeceased him four months ago, shared their love of the arts in guiding the 
 FLIGEL-Kenneth. Age 51. Cherished son of Esta and the late Marshall. Beloved brother and best friend of Craig. After a long and terrible ordeal, needing a liver transplant that never came, his body could fight no longer. Memorial Services at The Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, 
 FOURNIER-Joseph E. MD. The Faculty and Staff of NYU Medical Center note with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Joseph E. Fournier. Dr. Fournier completed his residency in anesthesiology and a fellowship in cardiac anesthesia at NYU School of Medicine before join
 GEE MAH-Steven, on February 7, 2001. Beloved husband of 53 years to Wai Lin. Loving father of Shirley, Rita, Evelyn, Betty, Steven, and Robert. Adoring grandfather of eleven. He immigrated to the US at age 12, attended Brooklyn Polytechnic University. He was an Electrical Engineer at AT&T W
 GRAF-Frederick W. On November 24, 2000, peacefully at home, aged 86, in Bethlehem, PA. For 38 years he was organist and choirmaster of the Cathedral Church of the Nativity there, which had a noted choir of men and boys since 1886. He also directed the Cathedral Choral Society of Bethlehem, 
 GUSSENHOVEN-Walter Howard. Former General Motors executive. Died at home in Charleston, S.C. on February 4, 2001. He was born December 16, 1910 in Chicago, IL. and attended The Choate School in Wallingford, CT. and Dartmouth College, from which he graduated in 1934 with a B.A. degree in Eco
 NEWMAN-Larry. On February 9, 2001. Loving father of Remi and Claire. Beloved son of Ann and Max. Devoted brother of Peter. Dear companion. Larry died doing what he loved most-playing tennis in a tournament. He will be missed by a multitude of wonderful friends. Graveside service Sunday, 1:3
 PARKER-Phillip. Beloved father of Alan and Carole, grandfather of Sophie and Michael, widower of the late Sylvia Zimet Parker, husband to Rose Lerner Parker, died peacefully at his home in Florida on February 6. Interment occurred on February 8 in New York. His family and friends will mourn
 RANSOHOFF-Joseph, MD. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU School of Medicine mourn the passing of Joseph Ransohoff, MD, Professor and Chairman of the Department of Neurosurgery and Director of The Neurological Service at NYU Medical Center and Bellevue Hospital from 1961 to 1992. Dr. Ran
 ROTWEIN-Eugene, Ph.D on February 7, 2001. Beloved husband of Anneliese. Loving father of Lisa Axelrod and Geoffrey Rotwein and his wife Rachel. Devoted grandfather of Sara and Daniel Rotwein. Dear brother of Edith. Professor Emeritus of Economics Queens College, CUNY. Memorial service to be
 Dr. Marshall Raymond Urist, the orthopedic surgeon who identified the substance that mends broken bones, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Los Angeles, where for 46 years he practiced, taught and did research at the U.C.L.A. medical school. He was 85. Before Dr. Urist's discovery, physi
 Dr. Joseph Ransohoff, one of the country's foremost practitioners and teachers of neurosurgery, died on Jan. 30 at his home in Tampa, Fla., where he moved after retiring from New York University Medical Center. He was 85. Dr. Ransohoff was director of neurosurgical services at Belle
 Leslie Edwards, one of the great character dancers and mimes of contemporary ballet, died on Thursday in London at the age of 84. He had been in failing health in recent years, said Michael Zande, a friend who served as the Royal Ballet's company manager on some of its American tour
 ANTOSOFSKY-Cantor Irving. February 10, 2001, age 93. Loving husband of Gussie for 70 years. Beloved father of Rabbi Marvin Antosofsky and Loretta, Barbara Kasower and Irving, Marcia Christie and Roy, eight grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. A cantor for over 65 years in synagogues
 BEAME-Abraham D. Former Mayor of New York City. 94, on February 10, 2001, after a long illness. Survived by his son Bernard, a brother Jack of North Miami Beach, FL, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Services Tuesday, February 13, 2001, at 11:45 AM, at Park East Synagogue, 163
 CHARLES-L. Robert. On February 10, 2001, at age 72. Beloved husband of Barbara Charles. Loving father of Frederick Charles and grandfather of Ian Robert and Clara Mary Charles. Devoted son of Helena and the late Leon Cieciuch. Dear brother of Sr. Jorene Cieciuch, O.P., and Richard Cieciuch.
 CHEVAT-Isidore. 79, died at home of a heart attack on February 11, 2001. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. A lifelong fighter for social justice, peace and democracy. A graduate of New Utrecht High School and Brooklyn College, he was a veteran of many struggles, including serving wit
 LARKIN-Leo P. Jr. A veteran litigator and corporate lawyer, passed away Thursday, February 8, 2001, at his Manhattan home at the age of 75. The cause of death was cardiopulmonary arrest. Born and raised in Ithaca, NY, Mr. Larkin, after Army service, graduated from Cornell University in 1948
 MENAGH-Donald F. The Society of The Friendly Sons of Saint Patrick of The City of New York wishes to note the passing of its lifetime member Donald F. Menagh and to extend its deepest sympathy and condolences to his family and friends. Timothy J. Reynolds, President Henry F. White Jr., Hist
 THOMPSON-Thomas W. A memorial service will be held for Thomas W. Thompson, of Rhinebeck, NY, at 11 AM, on Thursday, February 15, Chapel of the Brick Church, Park and 92 St. A Senior VP at Columbia Artists, over 45 years Thompson managed artists such as Yehudi Menuhin, Robert McDuffie, Birgi
 William D. Krimer, the chief English-Russian interpreter for the State Department for nearly two decades, died on Feb. 4 in Fairfax, Va. He was 86 and lived in Reston, Va. Mr. Krimer was an interpreter for the 1967 meetings between President Lyndon B. Johnson and the Soviet prime mi
 Buddy Tate, a broad-toned saxophonist who was a vital part of the widely admired Count Basie band of the 1940's, died on Saturday in Chandler, Ariz. He was 87. Mr. Tate was one of the great tenor saxophonists of the swing era, a superbly sophisticated ballad player influenced by bot
 David Twersky, grand rabbi of a branch of the Skverer dynasty of Hasidic Judaism, died on Feb. 2 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79. He died of complications of heart and kidney ailments, his family said. Rabbi Twersky was the leader of the Borough Park, Brookly
 Eugene J. Casey, a marketing designer who founded the firm that designed the logo for the Merrill Lynch bull, died on Jan. 30 in Guilford, Conn., at the home of a son. He was 83. The cause was lymphoma, said his daughter Susan C. Engel. In 1953, Mr. Casey founded King-Casey 
 Dr. Leonard Mandel, a physicist whose experiments with light vividly demonstrated the strange, Alice-in-Wonderland quality of reality at the microscopic level, died Friday at his home in Pittsford, N.Y., a suburb of Rochester. He was 73 and an emeritus professor of physics and optics at the
 Nathan Edward Cohen, who helped shape professional social work in the United States, died on Jan. 27 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 91. He was the founding president of the National Association of Social Workers, which in 1955 merged seven groups into one far more influential
 BEAME-Abraham D. The Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City sadly acknowledge the passing of Abraham D. Beame, former Mayor of New York City. Mr. Beame was a staunch supporter of people with cerebral palsy and related disabilities during his tenure as mayor. In t
 CHARLES-L. Robert. On February 10, 2001, at age 72. Beloved husband of Barbara Charles. Loving father of Frederick Charles and grandfather of Ian Robert and Clara Mary Charles. Devoted son of Helena and the late Leon Cieciuch. Dear brother of Sr. Jorene Cieciuch, O.P., and Richard Cieciuch.
 ELIAS-Irving Samuel. Cherished and beloved husband of Charlotte, devoted loving father of Gale (Ken), Shari (Mitchell) and Sam; adored grandfather of Colby, Harry, Samara, Chloe and Brant; passed on Sunday, February 11, 2001. His kindness, inner beauty, wisdom, sense of humor and strength w
 FITZGERALD-Edward E., 81. Of Eastchester, died on February 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Libuse Ostruk Fitzgerald. Devoted father of Eileen Fitzgerald and her husband Paul Rosenblum, and Kevin and his wife Linda Fitzgerald. Cherished grandfather of Leona Rosenblum. He was a noted writer, edi
 GERRITY-Joseph Warren, III. On Thursday, February 8, 2001. Joseph Warren Gerrity, III of Niskayuna, N.Y. Survived by his wife Anna Gerrity, his children, JoJo Gerrity and Andrea Grable, his son-in-law Dave Grable, his father Joe W. Gerrity, Jr. of Loudonville, N.Y., three brothers and three
 HOOPER-Bayard. Age 72. Of Sag Harbor, N.Y. and Bonita Springs, FL., where he died February 9, 2001. A graduate of Groton School and Harvard College, his professional life was largely spent as writer and editor of ''Time'', ''Life'' and ''Discover'' Magazines. He leaves his widow Nancy and f
 JUDSON-Paul. Died February 9, 2001 in Pinehurst, NC. He attended Pascedina Playhouse, had a long and outstanding career both as singer and actor. Toured with Spike Jones Band. Later years he became a teaching golf pro in Manhattan. He sang in many night clubs in the US and he was seen in ma
 LEAKE-John B. On February 10, 2001 of Villanova, PA. Husband of Jane (Whitridge), father of Alexandra and Joan. Also survived by a granddaughter, two step granddaughters, his brother Eugene and numerous nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, March 3, 2001 at 11AM a
 MIESES - Charlotte. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Harry Goodrich, upon the loss of his sister. We express profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapir
 NESS-Arthur Graham. Age 82, Saturday, February 10, in Montclair, NJ. Vice President of Chemical Bank. Survived by his wife of 53 years, Laurel, and daughters Francine, Carolyn and Lorna. Memorial service Friday, February 16, 10:30 AM, Union Congregational Church, 176 Cooper Ave., Upper Mont
 NOVY-Robert. Beloved husband of Tina (Nee Gelson), son of Dot and Ray, brother of Mickey, uncle of Donna and Tim, son-in-law of Nellie Gelson, died on February 11, 2001 in Staten Island, New York. Bob was a Police Officer for over 27 years. Presently the Vice-President Northern Region of th
 STANDARD-John Edward, MD. of Southbury, Connecticut, formerly of Naugatuck and Middlebury, Connecticut, and Saltaire, New York, died Sunday, Feb. 11, 2001 of complications due to Alzheimer's disease. Besides his wife Gloria, he is survived by his sister, ten children, 14 grandchildren. Memo
 Freddy Wittop, a Tony Award-winning costume designer who dressed hordes of Broadway actors, Latin Quarter nightclub dancers and Parisian showgirls, died on Feb. 2 in Atlantis, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Wittop created one of Broadway's most memorable creations: the glistening crimson gown 
 BEAME-Hon. Abraham D. The City College of New York mourns the passing of the Hon. Abraham D. Beame, former Mayor of New York City and a 1928 alumnus of CCNY. Mayor Beame provided long and distinguished service to the people of our city. He was devoted to his Alma Mater and served with disti
 ELIAS-Irving S. In memory of our esteemed colleague, Honorary President, Irving S. Elias, who devoted his life to generously supporting the Sephardic Home for the Aged. A proud Sephardic philanthropist who was a charter member of the Home, as were his parents, Sam and Sophie Elias. We exten
 EPSTEIN-William. Of the United Nations. On Friday, February 9th. Survived by his wife Edna of Portland, OR., and his son Mark of Washington, DC. Services are on Wednesday, at 12 Noon, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions to Memorial Sl
 KIRIAT-Ilana. On February 13, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Dr. George Kiriat. Devoted mother of Dr. Raffi Kiriat and his wife Joan, & Gideon Kiriat and his wife Nita. Cherished grandmother of Sheera, Jessica, Oren and Leigh. Funeral service is today at 10:00 A.M., Parkside Chapel, 2576 Fl
 KUSHNER-Daniel B., M.D. Physician and former councilman of Alpine, NJ (1984-1990), on February 13, 2001. Beloved husband of 36 years of Zina, loving father of Dr. Adam, Jonathan and Lesley and Jennifer. Medical director of the Boulevard Health Center, Bronx, NY. Private practice of Internal
 LARKIN-Leo P., Jr. Cornell Delta Phi Association, The Cornell Delta Phi Educational Fund and Llenroc Foundation record with deepest sorrow the passing of its distinguished member, trustee and officer, Leo P. Larkin, Jr. He shall be missed.       
 TILOVE-Robert. On February 9, 2001, at age 86 in Mitchellville, Md. He was a beloved colleague from 1949 to his retirement in 1979, and then as a consultant to our company. Bob's creativity in pension plan design and his analysis of the economic effects of private and public pension funds b
 TORREY-Owen Cates Jr, at Norwalk, CT., on February 13, 2001. Born October 31, 1925, in New York, NY, son of Owen Cates Torrey and Emily Gertrude McChesney Torrey. Graduate of St. Paul's School 1943, Harvard University AB 1947 and Columbia University Law School JD, 1951. Admiralty lawyer and
 Shepard Kurnit, a longtime advertising executive, died on Saturday. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Boca Raton, Fla. The cause was a brain tumor, said his son Rick. Mr. Kurnit helped break down the barrier between art direction and copywriting in the 1960's and created wacky, e
 Dr. Herbert E. Robbins, who developed several widely used statistical techniques and wrote a popular book that inspired many students to enter the mathematics profession, died Monday at Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 86. The cause was esophageal cancer, his famil
 BOOKSTAVER-John. Died peacefully on February 12 in Danville, California after a long battle with cancer. He is survived by his loving mother Louise Bookstaver, his daughter Lindsay, brother David Bookstaver and sister Jane Carr, former wife Michelle Barton and best friend and business partn
 HARRIS-Bert, on February 14, 2001. Survived by his wife Jerry, his daughter Gail Clavel, and his grandchildren Alex, Matthew and Lise.       
 LE BOUTILLIER-Martin, died Tuesday, February 13, 2001. He graduated Hotchkiss class of '40, and Yale '44. He then served in the South Pacific as a PT boat captain during W.W. II. Martin returned to NY and in a career in investment banking, ultimately serving as President and Chief Operating
 REISS-Elizabeth Clark, on Feb. 12, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Ernest P. Devoted mother of Robert F. and his wife Giovanna and Stefan E. Loving sister of Mary C. Anderson. Adored grandmother and great-grandmother. Funeral from the Chas. Peter Nagel, Inc. Funeral Home, 352 E. 87 St, Frida
 RESTLER-Samuel. Age 97 of Roswell, Georgia. Passed away peacefully on Tuesday, February 13, 2001. Mr. Restler was born in New York City, April 29, 1903. He formerly resided in Rockville Centre, NY and Ocean Ridge, FL. His survivors include his wife of 66 years, Leah, his three sons and thei
 SASS-Sherman G. On February 14, 2001, in Boston, MA. He was a beloved colleague from 1955 to his retirement in 1991, and then as a consultant to our company. Sherman served as mentor to many of our staff members during his long tenure as head of our Boston office and regional manager for Ne
 SMYTH-Joseph Percy. On February 14, 2001. Born May 24, 1907 in Brooklyn, NY to Katharine Stoothoff Eldert Smyth and the Rev. Joseph Percy Smyth, an Episcopal minister. His maternal grandfather was Cornelius Eldert, president of the Life Saving Benevolent Association of New York 1919-1930. I
 SOLOMON-Samuel M. Died at home on February 13, 2001. Following his WWII service in the South Pacific, he dedicated his professional life to supporting the economic development of Israel. He had served as: National Director of Institutional Sales of Israel Bond Drives; Director of the Easter
 WHITE-Robert W. Of Weston formerly of Brookline, MA and Concord, MA., Marlborough, NH and Marboro, VT. February 6, 2001. Father of David W. White of Cambridge and Marlboro, VT. Uncle of Barbara and Sally Baker of Needham, MA., and Donald V. Baker of Beverly, MA. Many cousins and friends. Mr
 Dr. Ugo Fano, an atomic theorist who was a pioneer in the study of  radiation's effects on matter, including living tissue, died on Tuesday in Chicago, where he was an emeritus professor of physics at the University of Chicago. He was 88. Far from inclined to study mathematical theo
 William Epstein, a United Nations official involved in promoting disarmament for more than 20 years, died on Friday in New York. He was 88. Mr. Epstein participated in negotiating pacts like the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in 1968 and the Biological Weapons Convention in 1972.  
 George T. Simon, a jazz critic best known for his writing during the big-band era, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Simon became a jazz critic in 1935 when, just out of Harvard, he joined the staff of Metronome magazine. In 1939 he became the magazi
 Gordon R. Dickson, a science fiction author best known for his Dorsai  books, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Minneapolis. He was 77. The cause was complications from severe asthma, said his brother, Craig. Mr. Dickson wrote over 80 books and many works of short fiction, incl
 BEASLEY-Chaplain Louis J., LT, COL (retired) US Army 1993, of Ayer, Mass. Husband of the late Lauvenia C. (Minor) Beasley. Beloved father of George F. Beasley of Thomaston, ME; Louis J. Beasley, Jr. of Reston, VA; Sayde Gray of Atlanta, GA; Winnie C. Beasley of Leominster, Mass.; brother of
 BERBIT-Marshall. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Marshall Berbit, husband of Thea Berbit, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, Nat'l President       
 CAMPBELL-Douglass. On February 14, 2001, in his 82nd years, while traveling in Australia. His late wife, Marion Danielson Campbell, died in November 1998. Survived by two (step) sons, Richard Strachan of Hood River, OR., and Stephen Strachan of Denver, CO, his brother Stafford Campbell of J
 GREENSTEIN-Evelyn. We grieve for our valued Board of Overseers member, Ken, and for our stalwart friend, his brother and sisterin-law Martin and Gloria and for all the Greenstein family. The Board and Staff of the Brookdale Center on Aging/ Hunter College       
 HUBER-Albert, devoted husband and beloved brother and uncle. He lived a full century of life.       
 LEE-James A. The American Civil Liberties Union and The New York Civil Liberties Union mourn the sudden passing of James A. Lee, who as a Board member, donor and valuable member of the Union's budget and investment committees, was, for nearly four decades, one of the ACLU's most devoted sup
 MILLER-Irving, 82. May 6, 1918February 14, 2001, of White Plains, NY. Professor Emeritus Columbia University School of Social Work, taught 38 years. Survived by his wife Helen, children and their partners Josh and Davina, Abby and Melanie, brother Sidney and sister-in-law Janet, six grandch
 ROBBINS-Herbert Ellis, died on February 12. Beloved husband of Carol; adored brother of Francie; esteemed father of Mark, David and Emily, Susannah and Marcia, and grandfather of Alice and Michael Borden. An incredible character in all of our lives, he shall never be forgotten. His Loving F
 SEPKOWITZ-Samuel, MD, age 78, died on February 7, 2001, at his home in Oklahoma City. Born in Wichita Falls, TX, Dr. Sepkowitz attended medical school at the University of Texas, Galveston. He completed his training in pediatrics at Lincoln, Willard Parker, and Bellevue hospitals, each in N
 STEWART-John, A.I.A. 74, of North Carolina died February 13, 2001 at Sloan-Kettering. An architect in New York for 40 years. Survived by his loving family: wife Ruth, daughter Pamela, step-son Bob, son-in-law Steve, daughter-inlaw Lisa and grandson Alex.       
 TORREY-Owen C., Jr. The Yacht Racing Association of Long Island Sound mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague and past President (1992 - 1994). Our thoughts are with Leggie and his family. Fair Winds, Shipmate!       
 WEEKS-P. Shelton, Jr. Aged 85. Born in Oyster Bay, L.I., died February 14, 2001 in Bonita Springs, FL. Previously a resident of Greenwich, CT. He retired after 45 years in advertising and marketing. He was Chairman of the Board of Kelly, Nason Advertising, prior to which he was Senior V.P. 
 WHITE-Robert W., Ph.D of Weston, formerly of Brookline and Concord, MA, Marlborough, NH and Marlboro, VT, February 6, 2001, Father of David W. White of Cambridge and Marlborough. Uncle of Barbara and Sally Baker of Needham and Donald V. Baker of Beverly. Many cousins and friends. Mr. White 
 ZELANO-Salvatore A., MD on February 13, 2001 of Forest Hills, NY. Affiliated with Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY. Loving and dear friend of Maria, devoted stepfather of Claudia & Nicoletta. Brother of John Zelano. Also survived by aunts, uncle, nieces, nephews and cousins. Visiting
 Sir Richard William Southern, an Oxford University historian whose insights on the early Middle Ages won praise not only for their erudition but also for their literary style, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Oxford. He was 88. Sir Richard's international reputation was earned with his
 Donald C. Peirce, a specialist in American decorative art and a curator at the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, died on Feb. 5 at his home in Atlanta. He was 52. The cause was heart disease, said a spokesman for the High Museum. Mr. Peirce, who was born and reared in Champaign
 MALLIS-David. Devoted father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be sorely missed.       
 MILNE-James Toner, Sr. February 15, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted and loving father of Marcia and her husband Edward Kloos, James T. Milne Jr. and his wife Judith, Mark Milne and his wife Claire and Christopher Milne and his wife Deborah. Cherished grandfather of Gregory, Rebekah,
 NAVIN-John J., Jr. The New York Law School community is saddened by the death of John J. Navin, Jr., a member of its Board of Trustees from 1975-1994. Mr. Navin was a wonderful ally of the school during times of great challenges. He was an early supporter of the Second Century Campaign and 
 SIMMONS-Edward M. On February 15th at age 96. Beloved husband of Marjorie Michaels. Loving father of Wendy and Lynn Simmons, Nancy Steiger (Norman) and Marion Benedek. Beloved grandfather of Deborah Schnur (Daniel), Elizabeth Newman (Steven), Sue Ellen Gerber (Steven), Michael Benedek (Kare
 WEBB-Vance T. A New York Times employee killed on February 11, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Leora and son, Martin Vance. Wake will be on Monday, February 19, 5-8PM at Miles Funeral Home, 136 Decatur Street, Brooklyn, Between Throop and Sumner Avenue. Services, on Tuesday, Februar
 Boris Goldovsky, the conductor, pianist, lecturer and opera impresario best known to millions of radio listeners for his intermission commentaries during nearly 50 years of Saturday matinee broadcasts from the Metropolitan Opera, died on Thursday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 92.  
 Khallid Abdul Muhammad, the former Nation of Islam official who was seen as a leader of the next generation of radical civil rights leaders by some and as a racist hatemonger by others, died yesterday in a hospital in Marietta, Ga., a suburb of Atlanta. He was 53. He was taken off l
 Martin LeBoutillier, a former president of Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, the brokerage house, died Tuesday at a hospital in Old Lyme, Conn. He was 79. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pneumonia, said his wife, Janet. Mr. LeBoutillier was elected pre
 Morison S. Cousins, a designer who brought flashy, European-inspired designs to Tupperware without sacrificing its polyethylene American soul, died on Feb. 10 in Orlando, Fla. He was 66 and lived in Winter Park, Fla. The cause was colon cancer, his family said. A vice presid
 ALLEN-Howard A., died peacefully at his home in his 92nd year on February 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth Singer Allen, brother-in-law of Julie Shimmerlik, uncle of Warren, Sel, Susan, Don, Eve, Anette, Susie, great-uncle of Tanya, Rachel, Lauren and Brian. Interment private.       
 BADANES-Elliott B. Died February 7, 2001 in Oakland, CA. Pre-deceased, in 1997, by Mildred (Millie), nee Rosenberg, his wife for fiftyeight years. He is survived by his sons Steve, John and Tom and by John's wife Ellabaff. Elliott received a B.A. from City College, New York, in 1938 and an 
 BEAME - Abraham D. The trustees, administration, and faculty of Yeshiva University mourn the recent passing of Mayor Abraham D. Beame, highly esteemed public servant, friend, and 1972 honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree recipient of our University. He dedicated his life to public servi
 COHEN-Alvin. 73, Formerly of New York City, currently residing in Scottsdale, Az., passed away February 8, 2001 after a 2 months illness with Valley Fever. He is survived by his wife Paula and three daughters Alisa, Shari and Ynid and two granddaughters Karla and Anika. Services were held i
 FISHMAN RUDERFER - Lisa Beth, on February 16, 2001. Wife, partner, lover of Stuart-lil'd to his Big D. Adoring, sweet sister of Debra. Devoted daughter of Susan Warren and Lee and Wendy Fishman. Beloved granddaughter of Evelyn Saklad. Special daughterin-law of Jill and Irwin Ruderfer, and s
 HILLERSON-Alan Donald. On Wednesday, February 14, 2001, died in Scottsdale, Arizona. Born October 30, 1947 in Washington, DC, Mr. Hillerson grew up in the Washington, D.C. area. After serving in the U.S. Army, he worked for Sears, Roebuck & Co. at an entry level job, and advanced through th
 KULMAN-Julius. On February 11, 2001, Julius died peacefully in his sleep at home in Delray Beach, Florida.       
 LIU-F.T. The Board and Staff of the International Peace Academy mourn the loss of our friend and colleague F.T. Liu. After a distinguished career in the United Nations, he shared with us his experience and insights in the realm of peacekeeping and the search for peaceful resolution of confl
 MATZA-Sam, 86. Of Lauderdale Lakes, FL. on February 12, 2001. He was a loving husband, father, grandfather & great-grandfather. He is survived by his wife Kaye, his children Mrs. Florie and Ernie Rudnet of Tamarac, Dr. Barry and Sue Matza of Boca Raton, his grandchildren David and Colleen R
 MILNE-James Toner, Sr. February 15, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted and loving father of Marcia and her husband Edward Kloos, James T. Milne Jr. and his wife Judith, Mark Milne and his wife Claire and Christopher Milne and his wife Deborah. Cherished grandfather of Gregory, Rebekah,
 SHAY-Dr. Robert P., Professor Emeritus at Columbia University, and a leading scholar of the economics of consumer finance, died on January 21 in Ellsworth, Maine. He was 78. The cause was cardiac arrest after a 12 year battle with Parkinson's disease. Dr. Shay's work on the impact of intere
 SIMPSON-Mark. Died suddenly of Meningitis, age 43, on February 11, 2001 in England. Beloved friend of Ivana, Judy, Ingrid, Diana and Gabriel. He will be remembered fondly for his unique gifts for friendship and adventure. Funeral to be held at Holy Trinity, Sloane Street in London on Tuesda
 Balthasar Klossowski, the painter internationally known as Balthus, died yesterday at his chalet in La Rossinière, Switzerland, near Gstaad. He was 92. For the last 30 years of his long life, Balthus was among the most widely admired of European painters. He had excelled as a portr
 Dale Earnhardt, the legendary stock car driver known as the Intimidator for his blunt demeanor, his push-broom mustache and his steely, unrelenting driving style, was killed today in an accident on the last lap of the Daytona 500. He was 49. Earnhardt, driving his familiar No. 3 bla
 Dale Earnhardt Sr., stock car racing's greatest star, died yesterday in a crash on the last lap of the Daytona 500, Nascar's premier event and its season opener. Earnhardt, 49 years old, was locked in a battle for third place when his Chevrolet grazed another car and hit a concrete wall. He
 Eddie Mathews, the Braves' Hall of Fame third baseman who hit 512 home runs and teamed with Hank Aaron to form the most productive power-hitting combination in baseball history, died yesterday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 69. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his famil
 Edward E. Fitzgerald, an author and former chief executive of the Book-of-the-Month Club, died Feb. 11 at Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81. The cause was complications from a stroke, according to his family. Mr. Fitzgerald helped direct the Book-of-
 BERMAN-Leo Harry. Died February 16, 2001, in his 85th year in Westport, CT. Husband of Dorothy Karg; father of Heather Lee Cantino, and Daniel Paul Berman, father-in-law to Philip and Mindy and sister-in-law to Gladys Berman and grandfather of his very special grandchildren Andrew, Julia, S
 EPSTEIN-Bernard M. On Saturday, February 17, at age 82, residing at Evergreen Woods, North Brandford, CT. Beloved husband of Ada M. (Bernstein), brother of Inda Goldfarb of Marlboro, NJ. Caring grandfather of eight splendid grandchildren. Services Tuesday, February 20, noon, at Gutterman-Mu
 LEVI-Joseph. Died peacefully on February 18, 2001, in his 95th year. Loving husband of the late Ruth. Adored and beloved father of Adina and Michael Levine and Haskel Levi. Cherished grandfather of Mindy and Michael Mervis, Joanne Levine and Noah Sabin, Robin Levi and John Hays. Greatgrandf
 Dr. William H. Masters, who with his co-researcher, Virginia E. Johnson, revolutionized the way sex is studied, taught and enjoyed in America, died Friday at a hospice in Tucson. He was 85 and had lived in retirement since 1994, first in St. Louis and then in Tucson. He suffered com
 Charles Trenet, one of France's most beloved popular singers who was best known abroad as the composer of hits like ''La Mer'' (''Beyond the Sea''), ''Boum'' and ''Que Reste-t-il de Nos Amours'' (''I Wish You Love'') died on Sunday in Creteil, a suburb of Paris. He was 87 and lived in Paris
 Frank Bunker Gilbreth Jr., a journalist whose life-with-father memoir  ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' became a best seller and a popular movie of the same title, died on Sunday in Charleston, S.C., where he had lived for the last 50 years. He was 89 and also had a home in Nantucket, Mass.        
 CAMPBELL-Douglass. We have known Douglass from the viewpoint of friends and office colleagues for many years and knew him as a person that belonged to another age; yet one who had a timeless, gentlemanly dignity. His love of life kept him buoyant. He was unique for his many passions ranging
 ENNIS-Dr. Charles E. Music Professor Emeritus of Long Island University, former Organist and Choir Director of All Angels Episcopal Church, N.Y. and Peekskill Presbyterian Church. Died February 18, 2001 after a brief illness. He leaves his beloved wife Agnes, daughter Susan Compton, grandch
 HIRTENSTEIN-Daniel. Daniel, a man for all seasons, a man for all reasons, a many you could talk to, a man you could learn from, a man of charity and kindness, a man of love and laughter. His warmth, wisdom, compassion, unbelievable perseverance against all odds and his great, big smile will
 SHEA-Robert Smith. Colonel and Reverend. Died February 15, 2001 in his 79th year in New York, New York. The New York Society of Military and Naval Officers wishes to express its deepest sympathy for the loss of our Chaplain, Colonel Robert S. Shea, who served far and above the call of duty 
 Robert Tilove, a pension expert who helped draft state and federal pension laws, died on Feb. 9 in Mitchellville, Md. He was 86 and was a former resident of Baldwin, N.Y. and Roosevelt, N.Y. As a senior vice president of the Martin E. Segal Company, an actuarial and consulting firm,
 Roger A. Caras, one of the most prominent public voices for animal welfare as a popular writer, broadcast personality, A.S.P.C.A. president and announcer for the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, died Sunday in Towson, Md. He was 72 and lived on a farm in Freeland, Md. He was presid
 T. Geoffrey Bibby, an archaeologist who unearthed a 4,000-year-old kingdom on Bahrain, proving the arid island state in the Persian Gulf to be richer in history than in oil, died on Feb. 6 in a hospital near Aarhus, Denmark, where he had lived for 50 years. He was 83. In the mytholo
 Bill Rigney, who played on the New York Giants' memorable pennant-winning team of 1951, then became the Giants' last manager at the Polo Grounds and first one in San Francisco, died yesterday in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 83. Rigney had been hospitalized since November with heart p
 Dr. Folke Karl Skoog, a biochemist who helped identify the hormonal forces that prompt plants to sprout and flourish, died on Thursday in Madison, Wis., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Wisconsin. He was 92. Dr. Skoog was in the forefront of the research that t
 BERMAN-Leo Harry. Died February 16, 2001 in his 85th year in Westport, CT. A memorial service will be held at 7 PM on Friday, February 23rd, at the Unitarian Church in Westport, 10 Lyons Plain Road, Westport, CT. Calling hours will be held the folowing day, Saturday, February 24th at 19 Ott
 DWYER-John (Johnny) J. Of West Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of Manhattan, died on February 18, 2001. He was 85. Beloved husband of Mary Kinney Dwyer and the late Margaret ''Margie'' Cuddihy Dwyer, who passed away in 1974. Loving father of John and George. Cherished grandfather of Matthew, 
 HIRTENSTEIN-Daniel. The family and friends of Colel Chabad mourn the loss of our dear friend and integral supporter, Daniel Hirtenstein, and extend our sympathy to his dear wife Audrey, his daughter Traci and son Andrew, and their families. Danny's friendship and kind deeds for Chabad are h
 LIU-F.T. Died peacefully at home on Friday, February 16, 2001. Beloved husband and father, he is survived by his wife Joan, his son Michael and wife Karen, and grandson John Michael, and his daughter Margaret Liu McConnell and husband Scott, and grandchildren Neil, Kristen and Anna. Service
 PEKOFF - Charles, M.D. We mourn the loss of our dear associate, Dr. Charles Pekoff, who passed away after a short but valiant battle with illness. He loved his work and he loved the many children he cared for. Heartfelt condolences to his loving family and many friends. The doctors and staf
 WEISER-Magnus. On February 19, 2001. Loving father of Jon and Barbara. Dear brother of Daniel and Lesley. Devoted uncle. Extraordinary, generous and loving friend. Service Wednesday 1:00 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory to the Jewish Home of Irela
 Stanley Kramer, the producer and director of socially groundbreaking films like ''The Defiant Ones'' and ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' and one of Hollywood's most respected filmmakers in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Monday in Woodland Hills, a section of Los Angeles. He was 87.      
 Bob Buhl, who teamed with Warren Spahn and Lew Burdette as the pitching stars of the Milwaukee Braves' 1957 World Series champions, died Friday in Titusville, Fla. He was 72. Buhl had been suffering from pneumonia and emphysema, The Associated Press reported. His death came two days
 Guy Rodgers, a four-time National Basketball Association All-Star, a two-time all-American at Temple University and one of the most talented guards and playmakers of his era, died Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 65. Rodgers was attending a movie when he apparently suffer
 Jerome Shelby, the former co-chairman of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, one of America's oldest law firms, died yesterday. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, according to the firm. A graduate of Harvard Law School, Mr. Shelby joined the firm in 1953 at age 23 and held the po
 BAMBURY-Joseph A., Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Joseph A. Bambury Jr., a Life Member of the Society and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Histor
 GELLES-Ernest. 86, died 2/20. Predeceased by his wife of 57 years, Charlotte Remenyi Gelles. Survived by 2 daughters, Sherry and Carol. A lieutenant in the Italian Army until 1939 when he came to the US, rising through the ranks to Captain of military intelligence eventually serving as Inte
 GOLDSTONE - Harmon Hen dricks, architect and former chairman of New York's Landmarks Preservation Commission which he helped to establish in 1965, died on Wednesday at the age of 89. He is survived by his niece Jane Goldstone Hilles of Bryn Mawr, PA and by a great nephew George Feaver and g
 HIRTENSTEIN-Daniel. The Board of Directors of the Hebrew Hospital Home wish to express their condolences to the family of Daniel Hirtenstein on their profound loss. We were privileged to have Dan serve as a member of our Board of Directors for over 10 years and we were inspired by his coura
 LIU-F.T. Died peacefully at home on Friday, February 16, 2001. Beloved husband and father, he is survived by his wife Joan, his son Michael and wife Karen, and grandson John Michael, and his daughter Margaret Liu McConnell and husband Scott, and grandchildren Neil, Kristen and Anna. Service
 MILLER-Benjamin. Died Saturday, February 17th, in Orlando, FL. Devoted husband of Diane (nee Schoenfeld) of 54 years. Proud father of Lois Miller of Winter Springs, FL., Susan Schwarz of New York City and Dr. Lee T. Miller of Los Angeles. Loving grandfather of Joanna Athwal of New York City
 PEKOFF-Charles, MD. The Department of Pediatrics at North Shore University Hospital/Manhasset mourns the death of Charles Pekoff, MD. Charlie was a former resident and dear colleague of ours. Sincere condolences go out to his family. Harvey Aiges, MD, Vice Chairman, Department of Pediatrics
 SCHWARTZ-Simon. On behalf of the officers and members of the United Federation of Teachers, we mourn the passing of a vibrant leader who was active in building the UFT in a 35-year career as a teacher and trade unionist. He served as the UFT Manhattan representative and fought for the right
 SHELBY-Jerome. Died on February 21, 2001 at the age of 70 after a long bout with leukemia, which he endured with characteristic courage, grace and humor. A business man's lawyer, he earned his Bachelor's Degree from New York University in 1950 and graduated Cum Laude from Harvard Law School
 SILBERMAN-Else. The Directors, officers and members of the American Federation of Jews from Central Europe are deeply saddened by the passing of Else Silberman, wife of our Chairman Dr. Curt C. Silberman. Their long road together through persecution and hardships, but also years of achievem
 DENERSTEIN-Ezra J. Sweet, gentle man remembered today and everyday with love by his children and grandchildren. Susan and Harris       
 F. T. Liu, a Chinese-born United Nations official who worked closely with the American Nobel laureate Ralph J. Bunche during the Congo crisis of the 1960's and in many other trouble spots, died on Feb. 16 in his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 82. Born in Shanghai, the son of a dist
 Harmon Hendricks Goldstone, an architect whose career ranged from creating the 1939 World of Tomorrow to preserving broad swaths of the world of yesterday, died Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 89. As a moving force behind the formation of the New Yo
 A tribute to Jason Robards, who died on Dec. 26 at age 78, will be held at noon on Monday at the Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street. Among the friends, family members and colleagues who will speak and perform are Paul Thomas Anderson, Matthew Broderick, John Connell, Herb Gard
 CARP-Eli. Died on February 2. Cherished husband of Rea Carp. Beloved father of the late Jeffrey Carp. Loving brother of Selma Kaufman and husband Herbert Kaufman and sister-in-law Lee Margolin and beloved uncle of all his nieces, nephews, and cousins. You will be in our memory always.      
 FRIEDHOFF-Arnold J., 77, died Wednesday. Son of the late Abraham and Stella Beerman Friedhoff. Beloved husband of 55 years to Frances Wolfe Friedhoff. Devoted father of Lawrence T. Friedhoff and his wife Beth, Nancy Friedhoff Walsh and her husband Dan and Richard M. Friedhoff. Loving brothe
 GRASSO-Thomas A. Age 54. Died February 10, 2001. Teacher, actor, administrator. Director of Herbert Berghof Studio. Former associate at Actors Connection. Mr. Grasso taught multiply-handicapped children at the New York Institute for the Blind. He was a member/performer with the Village Ligh
 HARMON-Joseph F. Of Eastchester. Died February 21, 2001 at the age of 68 yrs. Joseph is survived by his wife, Joan Pawlowski Harmon. He is also survived by Leslie Harmon-Jarsen, Laura Harmon, Margaret Holmes, Kathleen Emens, Karen Jarsen and Bruce Jarsen. Brother of Mary Ellen Gladir, Rober
 HARTMAN-Daniel L., M.D. Died February 21st, 2001 at his home in Southampton, NY at age 86 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Joyce, devoted father of Gail and Alison, loving father-in-law of Peter Clark, cherished grandfather of Emily, Alex, Jake and Adam. Private memorial services to
 HAYES-John (Jack) Bruton Hayes, Jr., 59, of Fairfield, CT, husband of Susan S. Hayes, died February 22, 2001. Mr. Hayes was born in Bronx, New York, son of John B. Hayes Sr. and the late Muriel S. Hayes. He received his Bachelor's Degree from Manhattan College and was employed at Chapdelain
 LIU-F.T. Died peacefully at home on Friday, February 16, 2001. Beloved husband and father, he is survived by his wife Joan, his son Michael and wife Karen, and grandson John Michael, and his daughter Margaret Liu McConnell and husband Scott, and grandchildren Neil, Kristen and Anna. Service
 MARCUS-Vivian. On February 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Leon. Dear sister of Harold Hofflin and the late Norman Hofflin. Cherished and devoted aunt of Lois Hofflin, Jesse Hofflin and his wife, Phyllis, and loving great-aunt of Lauren Hofflin. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 MONTGOMERY - Rodman Bowne, Jr., 71, of Manhattan. He is survived by a son, Rodman Bowne Montgomery, III; three daughters, Jennifer Montgomery Voorhees, Phoebe Montgomery Moeller and Justine Montgomery Ix; one sister, Justine Corbin, seven grandchildren and one greatgrandson. In lieu of flow
 QUINN-John Ryan, Jr., New York advertising sales executive, was killed while riding as a passenger in a tour vehicle in Tanzania's Serengeti Wildlife Preserve on February 19th, 2001. A Manhattan resident, John grew up in Rumson, NJ, became a high school tennis star and National Champion in 
 SCHANCER-Lola J. Died February 19th in Nashua, NH. Born in Brooklyn on October 12, 1926. She was married 34 years to Myron Schancer, who died in 1983. Family members include two sons, Douglas Schancer of Derry, NH and his wife Kathy; and Gary Schancer of Albuquerque, NM and his wife Kathy; 
 SHELBY-Jerome. Died on February 21, 2001 at the age of 70 after a long bout with leukemia, which he endured with characteristic courage, grace and humor. A business man's lawyer, he earned his Bachelor's Degree from New York University in 1950 and graduated Cum Laude from Harvard Law School
 DRABKIN-Steven Wayne. 10/19/61-2/23-81. Twenty years have gone by, but we who held him dear remember. He is enshrined within our hearts.       
 Michel Oksenberg, an American authority on China who as a member of President Jimmy Carter's National Security Council helped establish full diplomatic relations between Washington and Beijing, died on Thursday at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 62. The cause of death was cancer
 COBITT-Solomon. Of NYC and Weston, CT on February 11 at age 88. Beloved father, grandfather and devoted friend. An actor and print model, he is immortalized in movies, ads, greeting cards, and as the senior ''centerfold'' of a 1997 NY Times magazine. Service on Sunday, February 25, at the C
 GOLDSTONE - Harmon. We mourn the passing of Founding Trustee Harmon Goldstone and express our sincere condolences to his family and friends. Gomez Foundation for Mill House       
 HAYES-John B. III. On February 22, 2001. All of us at Chapdelaine & Co. are saddened by the sudden death of Jack, our longtime friend and associate. Our sincere sympathies to his wife, Susan, and his children, John, Andrew and Caitlin.       
 LASDON-Lawrence H. Age 58 died February 16, 2001, of a heart attack at his home in Palm Desert, CA. A former resident of New York he was a graduate of Florida Southern University and a former member of the NYSE. He is survived by a brother, Rand M. of New York and two sons, Lance and Chad o
 LEAF-Harold. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Harold Leaf. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Adele, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 LeROY-Warner. On February 22, 2001 at age 65. Entrepreneur, designer and noble friend. Beloved father of Bridget, Carolyn, Max and Jennifer. Cherished brother of Linda Janklow, Brian and Quentin Vidor. Devoted Grandpa to Georgia, Joelie and Bing. You will always be a star! Services Monday, 
 OLLMAN-Dr. Abraham A., 84, on February 22nd. He is survived by his son Robert, daughter-in-law Joanne, and granddaughters Jennifer and Leigh. His wife Beatrice and daughter Carolyn predeceased him. A loving father and grandfather. Captain in the U.S. Army. A dedicated dentist. ''Doc'' will 
 ROSENTHAL-Irving. On Wednesday, February 21. Irving Rosenthal loving son of the late Nathan and Sylvia Rosenthal. Beloved brother of the late Ruth Marlowe, loving uncle of Penny and Manny Flecker, Ellen and Bernard (Marlowe) Wally and the late Michael Marlowe, loving great uncle of Dana and
 Robert Weiskopf, who wrote scripts for ''I Love Lucy,'' ''Maude,'' ''All in the Family'' and several other hit television comedies, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 86. Mr. Weiskopf's longtime writing partner was Robert A. Schiller. The pair, who got together in 1953, won an E
 Warner LeRoy, a son of Hollywood pioneers who combined show business glamour with circus ballyhoo to create New York restaurants like Maxwell's Plum, Tavern on the Green and the new Russian Tea Room, died Thursday night at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 65. The cause of deat
 John Fahey, a guitarist who carved out a private corner of Americana only to see it become a foundation of new age music, died on Thursday at Salem Hospital in Salem, Ore., after undergoing sextuple heart bypass surgery, said Mitch Greenhill, the president of Folklore Productions and Mr. Fa
 Melville J. Ulmer, a liberal-minded economist, died at a group home in his hometown of Potomac, Md., on Feb. 9. He was 89. Mr. Ulmer was chairman of the economics departments at American University and later the University of Maryland and the author of eight books. Mr. Ulmer spent m
 Roderick Ninian Smart, a scholar of comparative religion whose copious writings on the essence of faith informed readers on both sides of the Atlantic, died unexpectedly on Jan. 29 in a hospital in Lancaster, England, apparently of a stroke. He was 73 and lived in Lancaster and Santa Barbar
 DICKMAN-Louis. Passed away On February 5th, 2001. Beloved husband of Mollie Dickman. Father of Mark Dickman, Michael and Darlene Dickman, Richard and Kim Dickman and Howard and Martie Dickman. Grandfather of Ryan and Mindy Dickman, Chris Dickman and Stephen and Julie Dickman. Louis was a de
 EPSTEIN-Bernard M. On Saturday, February 17, at age 82, residing at Evergreen Woods, North Brandford, CT. Beloved husband of Ada M. (Bernstein), brother of Inda Goldfarb of Marlboro, NJ. Devoted father of Drs. Adrian, Jay, Rochelle (Rogart), and Serle Epstein. Caring grandfather of eight sp
 FRIEDHOFF-Arnold, J. The Silberstein Aging and Dementia Research and Treatment Center of the New York University School of Medicine mourns with profound sorrow the death of Professor Arnold Friedhoff. For more than a quarter of a century, Dr. Friedhoff was the Director of the Millhauser Lab
 GOLDSTONE-Harmon. The Directors, Officers, and members of the Wyckoff House and Association deeply mourn the passing of Harmon Goldstone, who not only saved the 1652 Wyckoff House from destruction, but also had it landmarked as the first landmark building in NYC. He was also a devoted Direc
 HARTMAN-Daniel L., M.D. Died February 21, 2001 at his home in Southampton, NY at age 86 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Joyce, devoted father of Gail and Alison, loving father-in-law of Peter Clark, cherished grandfather of Emily, Alex, Jake and Adam. Private memorial services to b
 HAYES-John B. III. On February 22, 2001. All of us at Chapdelaine & Co. are saddened by the sudden death of Jack, our longtime friend and associate. Our sincere sympathies to his wife, Susan, and his children, John, Andrew and Caitlin.       
 HECKELMAN-A. Joseph. Rabbi. 75. It is with deep sorrow that we mark the passing of our dear husband and father (may his memory be blessed). Yet we are comforted by the richness of his life and by the effect he had on the lives of others. He was the son of committed Jewish parents, Jack and 
 JOHNSON-Helmer. Died in Washington, D.C, February 23, 2001. Age 88. He was the husband of the late Ramona Louise Grattan, father of three sons, Grattan, William and Craig, and grandfather of Lindsey Elizabeth. He was Attorney at the Justice Department from 1939 to 1946. He later practiced i
 LASDON-Lawrence H. Age 58 died February 16, 2001, of a heart attack at his home in Palm Desert, CA. A former resident of New York he was a graduate of Florida Southern University and a former member of the NYSE. He is survived by a brother, Rand M. of New York and two sons, Lance and Chad o
 LeROY-Warner. On February 22, 2001 at age 65. Entrepreneur, designer and noble friend. Beloved father of Bridget, Carolyn, Max and Jennifer. Cherished brother of Linda Janklow, Brian and Quentin Vidor. Devoted Grandpa to Georgia, Joelie and Bing. You will always be a star! Services Monday, 
 LEWIS-Samuel I. Age 92, on February 23, of Wayne, NJ. Survived by his wife Lillian, his children John and his wife Florence, Marjorie, Steven and his wife Patti, 18 grandchildren and seven greatgrandchildren. Services on Monday, 11 AM, Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt 4 (East), Parm
 LIBERMAN-Melville N., on December 3, 2000, in his 93rd year. Predeceased by his dear wife Hilda. He is survived by his loving son Stuart and his granddaughters Tracy and Cari-Anne. Loving brother of Adele Feingold, Marjorie Mottus, Frank Liberman and the late Bertram Liberman and several ni
 MARCUS-Vivian. On February 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Leon. Dear sister of Harold Hofflin and the late Norman Hofflin. Cherished and devoted aunt of Lois Hofflin, Jesse Hofflin and his wife, Phyllis, and loving great-aunt of Lauren Hofflin. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 NICHOLSON-Erwin ''Nick''. On February 21, 2001. He was the Executive Producer of the daytime drama The Edge of Night for 20 years. He won an Emmy for the show in 1972, the second Emmy every given for a daytime drama. Before joining The Edge of Night, Mr. Nicholson directed the daytime drama
 OLLMAN-Dr. Abraham A., 84, on February 22nd. He is survived by his son Robert, daughter-in-law Joanne, and granddaughters Jennifer and Leigh. His wife Beatrice and daughter Carolyn predeceased him. A loving father and grandfather. Captain in the U.S. Army. A dedicated dentist. ''Doc'' will 
 SCHLAU-Philip. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother and respected by all who knew him professionally or personally. He'll be missed. We were lucky and blessed to have had him with us. Florence, Stacey and Beth Schlau Murray and Trudy Starr       
 SMYTH-Joseph Percy. On February 14, 2001. Joseph Percy Smyth was born May 24, 1907 in Brooklyn to Katharine Stoothoff Eldert Smyth and the Rev. Joseph Percy Smyth, an Espiscopal minister. He was graduated from St. Paul's School, Garden City; Columbia College, Columbia University, NY with an
 Robert W. White, a Harvard psychologist who brought a historian's perspective to the study of personality, died on Feb. 6 at a nursing home in Weston, Mass. He was 96 and lived in Brookline, Mass. Dr. White was among the early American proponents of personality psychology, which see
 Robert Enrico, a popular French movie director whose memorable 24-minute film, ''Incident at Owl Creek,'' won a Palme d'Or at the 1962 Cannes International Film Festival as well as an Oscar for best short film at the 1964 Academy Awards, died on Friday. He was 69. The cause was canc
 Dr. Arnold Jerome Friedhoff, a psychiatric researcher at New York University who investigated the biological underpinnings of mental disorders, died Wednesday at a rehabilitation center in Manhattan. He was 77 and a resident of the Upper East Side. The cause was complications from a
 Anthony J. Giacalone, who was reputed to be a Detroit gangster and was investigated in the disappearance of the former Teamsters boss James R. Hoffa, died on Friday at St. John Hospital and Medical Center in Detroit. He was 82. The cause of death was not disclosed. The Detroit Free 
 Johnny Warangkula Tjupurrula, one of the founding members of a thriving school of Aboriginal painters whose work is increasingly prized both in Australia and on the international art market, died on Feb. 12 at Papunya in the western Australian desert near Alice Springs. He was about 75.    
 BELPORT-Robert. Age 65. A man of great dignity and integrity. Devoted and loving husband of Adria. Proud and adoring father of Justine and Jason. Brother of Peter. Bob finally closed his eyes peacefully on February 24, 2001, after a difficult illness. The family and many friends will rememb
 BERLAND-Seymour. Age 87, died February 24, peacefully in Charlotte, NC. He was the son of the late Joseph and Anna Berland, husband of the late Jean Spector Berland. He is survived by sons Joseph and Richard Berland, daughters-in-law Sue and Joanne and ten loving grandchildren. Funeral and 
 BUNIN-Alan I. At 49, of a heart attack on February 17. A generous and humorous man, he was the mainstay of public radio in Hawaii and was highly regarded in musical circles. He is survived by his wife, Helen, a daughter, Natasha, his mother, Estelle and his sister, Karen Huss. He will be mi
 FORNARI-Dr. Harry D. Of 2 Rivers Drive, Great Neck, NY, passed away on the morning of February 24, 2001, after a two year illness with cancer. He was born in Rome, Italy, on May 21, 1919, and emigrated to the US in June, 1939, to escape the Fascist regime prior to World War II. He served in
 FRIEDHOFF-Arnold J., MD. The National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression (NARSAD) mourns the loss of our esteemed Scientific Council member, Chairman of the Lieber Prize Committee for Schizophrenia Research and devoted supporter. Dr. Friedhoff's pioneering leadership in t
 JONES-Harold S. Of Rumson, NJ, and Palm City, FL, died on February 22, at the age of 66. Born in Red Bank, at Riverview Hospital to Harold J. and Elizabeth Patterson Jones. ''Mickey'' was married to Grace Healy of Rumson, NJ, in 1955. He founded the Surfside Beverage Corp in 1962, which wen
 LeROY-Warner. On February 22, 2001 at age 65. Entrepreneur, designer and noble friend. Beloved father of Bridget, Carolyn, Max and Jennifer. Cherished brother of Linda Janklow, Brian and Quentin Vidor. Devoted Grandpa to Georgia, Joelie and Bing. You will always be a star! Services Monday, 
 SHAMOUN-Maurice. At the Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Maurice was highly respected as a loving husband and father, brother and friend. He was a beloved member of our center family, whose gentle intelligence will be sorely missed. Maurice is being buried in Israel today. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster
 STEVENS-Martin. Distinguished Medievalist, scholar and teacher and distinguished Professor Emeritus of The City University of New York Graduate Center. Died on February 24, 2001, at his home in San Francisco. He is deeply mourned by his wife, Rose Zimbardo, his children, Cindy, Marc and Dav
 UNGER-Bruce. President of Unger Brothers Auto Sales in Woodside, NY. A gentle man loved by everyone. My partner for 40 years, he was more than my brother and partner, we were best friends. He was much loved and will be sorely missed. Howard, Helen, Diane, Kenny Larry and Suzette       
 WHITCOMB-David. 76. Interior designer in NYC since 1950, died February 21 at Tailings, his home in Germantown, NY. Patron of the arts and music in Columbia County, he was a master gardener and champion of the environment. He is survived by Robert Montgomery, his companion of 20 years, and m
 A. R. Ammons, an award-winning poet who could turn any topic, even a heap of garbage, into poetry, died on Sunday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Phyllis. Typing some of his work on long strips of adding-machine tape, Mr. Ammons wr
 Dr. Claude Elwood Shannon, the American mathematician and computer scientist whose theories laid the groundwork for the electronic communications networks that now lace the earth, died on Saturday in Medford, Mass., after a long fight with Alzheimer's disease. He was 84. Understandi
 Herbert Kupferberg, a music critic, author and a senior editor of Parade magazine, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 83. Born in New York in 1918, Mr. Kupferberg earned master's degrees in English and journalism from Columbia University. For more than 20 years he was an editor a
 BERLAND-Seymour. Age 87, died February 24, peacefully in Charlotte, NC. He was the son of the late Joseph and Anna Berland, husband of the late Jean Spector Berland. He is survived by sons Joseph and Richard Berland, daughters-in-law Sue and Joanne and ten loving grandchildren. Funeral and 
 BISHOP-George Francis, age 84 of Burlington, NC died Friday February 23, 2001. A native of Brooklyn, N.Y. he was the son of the late George F. Bishop and Mary C. McCormick Bishop. Mr. Bishop was a member of Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church, retired employee of A.T.&T Telephone Pioneers of 
 CONKLIN-Joseph E. On February 24, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Ann Conklin. Survived by his sister Margaret Love, three nephews and five nieces. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street, Tuesday 5 PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the
 EDELMAN-Jordan. 76, on February 25, 2001 after a valiant struggle with lung cancer. Jordan Edelman was born in the Bronx on November 25, 1924. Beloved son of Abraham and Sylvia Edelman, devoted brother of Theo Heller, adored father of Abbe Hesketh and Marti Christianson and cherished grandf
 FORNARI-Dr. Harry D. The American Fats and Oils Association mourns the death of Dr. Harry D. Fornari, its founding member, two-time President, and longserving Executive Director. For almost forty years, his vision served our Association as a bright beacon, lighting its growth. He will be mi
 FRIEDHOFF-Arnold J. We express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our mentor and friend. He was a great inspiration to all whose lives he touched and will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his family. Florence Diamond, Emanuel Meller, Jeannette Miller, Helen Rosengarte
 GREENBERG-Nathan. 1912-2001. Died suddenly on Sunday, February 25 in Margate, Florida, at 88. Widower of Frances, he is survived by his devoted and loving wife of 20 years, Edith (Keit) Greenberg. Adored by daughters Lorraine Potecha, Risa Solomon, and son Emil Jay Greenberg, as well as by 
 KUPFERBERG - Herbert. The staff of Parade Magazine mourns the loss of a beloved friend and colleague. In his 33 years of service, Herb Kupferberg helped shape Parade into the successful magazine it is today. His contributions were significant and farreaching; his talent immense. Many benefi
 LEATON-Edward K. A resident of The Hermitage at Cedarfield, Richmond, VA., died February 23, 2001 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 34 years, Janet K. Leaton. Also surviving are five sons and their wives: Edward M. Leaton, M.D. and Barbara of Midlothian, VA; Robert A. and 
 LeROY-Warner. The entire Citymeals-on-Wheels family mourns the loss of our cherished friend and generous benefactor, Warner LeRoy. For twenty years Warner graciously hosted our events, always as a gift, always in surroundings only he could have created. He gave out of loving concern for fra
 MOSCOVITZ-Howard, M.D. The staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute and the Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Howard Moscovitz, M.D. Dr. Moscovitz joined Mount Sinai in 1946 as an intern and ro
 PIERCE-Edward F. Jr., on February 23, 2001. Former Editor & Director of Public Relations, IBM, NYC. Resident of Patterson, NY. Survived by several nieces & nephews and many friends. Memorial service Tuesday 11AM at the home of Thomas Kennedy and Edward Pierce, 382 Haviland Hollow Rd, Patter
 SHERMAN-Douglas. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 SHERNOV-Samuel. Age 100, of Hallandale Beach, Florida, passed away on February 25, 2001. Loving father of Jan (Arthur) Leichtung, grandfather of Kathy Reichenbaum, Robert (Debbi) Leichtung, great-grandfather of Harris, Jamie, Stephanie and Aaron, brother of Edith Goldstein. He taught us to 
 SLATER-Joseph Locke, a graduate of Colgate University who returned to his alma mater to head its Department of English and retire from its faculty in 1986 as Edgar W.B. Fairchild Professor of American Literature, died on February 22, in Norwich, New York, of respiratory failure. Professor S
 TALBOT-Robert ''Pete'' 83. Of Bloomfield, CT and Fishers Island, NY died February 26, 2001 in CT. He was the son of the late Harold Richmond Talbot and Nannie Brown Talbot. He graduated from Deerfield Academy in 1935 and from Yale University in 1939. He was retired from Pratt and Whitney Ai
 WEST-Samuel. Died February 25, 2001. Devoted husband to the late Rose. Loving father to Joan Versalie (Bob) and Bonnie Minsky (Stuart). Grandfather to Elizabeth Versalie and Francine Versalie (Michael Ritchken), Michelle (Tim) Glover, Ricky Minsky (Orly), Bruce Minsky (Jill), Andrea Minsky 
 WHITCOMB-David. 76. Interior designer in NYC since 1950, died February 21 at Tailings, his home in Germantown, NY. Patron of the arts and music in Columbia County, he was a master gardener and champion of the environment. He is survived by Robert Montgomery, his companion of 20 years, and m
 Sir Donald Bradman, rated the greatest player in the history of cricket, died Sunday at age 92, sending his native Australia and the sport's followers around the world into mourning. He had not played for 50 years, but his fame endured among millions of fans who have seen him only i
 Guy Wood, a songwriter whose works include ''Till Then,'' ''My One and Only Love'' and ''Shoo-Fly Pie and Apple Pan Dowdy,'' died on Friday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Wood was born in Manchester, England, where he played saxophone in dance bands before moving t
 ARPIN-Gerard ''Todd''. Our magnificent, beloved friend died February 26, 2001, age 52, of Cancer. A great artist, Todd was extraordinarily skilled in many forms of painting, and his work enhanced and beautified many city and country homes. Many of his clients became his close friends. He lo
 CASEY-Thomas E. Of Deer Park, New York on February 24, 2001, 5 months shy of his 100th year. Born McHenry, North Dakota, July 23, 1901. Beloved husband of the late Katherine (nee Murray). Devoted father of Geraldine Kneafsey of Deer Park and John B. Casey of Stony Point, New York. Cherished
 DUNBAR-William K. Jr., age 93, died Saturday, February 24 after a long illness. He was born in Pittsburgh, PA in 1907, moved to Plainfield, NJ in 1914 and Bay Head, NJ in 1971. He went to work for Phelps Dodge Corporation in 1930 and retired in 1967 as vice president of Phelps Dodge Industr
 FORNARI-Dr. Harry D. The American Fats and Oils Association mourns the death of Dr. Harry D. Fornari, its founding member, two-time President, and longserving Executive Director. For almost forty years, his vision served our Association as a bright beacon, lighting its growth. He will be mi
 FRIEDHOFF-Arnold J. M.D. A dedicated pioneer in the field of biological psychiatry, prolific writer, internationally honored, the Director of The Jonas Center for the Study and Treatment of Children at Risk at NYU Medical School; but most of all, an empathic teacher and valued friend. We ex
 GLEASON-Charles L., Jr. 82. Of Vero Beach, FL, and Stinson Lake, NH. Died January 30, 2001, after a brief illness. He served in the U.S. Army as a Medical Administrative Officer in World War II, and during The Korean War. He graduated from The University of Massachusetts and received an MBA
 HAUPT-Edward Joseph. Died on February 21, 2001, in his sleep from complications related to pancreatic cancer. Born December 28, 1936, Bronx, NY, survived by three sons, Carl, Marcus, and Jeremy, and one grandson, Ryan, also born on December 28, 1999. New York State Regents Scholar, BA, aero
 MAGGIO-Eugene. At age 72 of Nanuet, died Saturday, February 24, 2001 in the Good Samaritan Hospital Suffern, New York. Mr. Maggio was born on December 30, 1928 to the late Mariano and the late Jennie Loprest Maggio. He was a Photographer, employed by The New York Times for over 35 years. He
 MOSCOVITZ-Howard, MD. The Jewish Home and Hospital medical department and entire staff mourn the loss of Howard Moscovitz, MD, Chief of Cardiology for more than 35 years. ''Howie'' was a friend to many, an outstanding surgeon and clinician who shared his positiveness with all. MOSCO
 PAGANUCCI-Paul Donnelly. On February 26, at home in Hanover, New Hampshire, quietly after a long illness at age 69. Beloved and devoted husband of Marilyn and father to daughter Elizabeth and son Thomas. 1953 graduate of Dartmouth College, summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, Tuck School of 
 RADITSA-Leo Ferrero. Died unexpectedly on February 22nd. at the age of sixty-four, in Annapolis, Maryland. A devoted teacher at St. John's College, he was an ancient historian, and an essayist on contemporary politics, psychiatry, literature and art. He was an accomplished painter and poet,
 SHERMAN-Douglas. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 SIEFF-Lord Marcus Joseph. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Lord Marcus Joseph Sieff, Chancellor and Chairman Emeritus of the Weizmann Institute of Science Board of Governors. Throughout his life, Lord Sieff was deeply involved in Weizmann, p
 TAGER-Rose B. Of Brooklyn, New York. Died on February 27. Loving wife of the late Harry L. Tager, M.D. Loving mother of Michael G. Tager, M.D. of Westport, CT and Charles W. Tager, D.D.S. of Palm Beach Gardens, FL. A graveside service will be held March 1 at 11AM at the Mt. Carmel Cemetery,
 Dr. Sidney Weinhouse, who received the first National Science Foundation grant half a century ago and distinguished himself as a teacher and researcher of the metabolism of cancer, died on Feb. 9 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 91. When the foundation received its first substant
 Dr. Theodore Lidz, a Yale professor of psychiatry who explored the background causes of schizophrenia and specialized in the treatment of it, died Feb. 16 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 90. Dr. Lidz studied the relationships between normal development and the development of men
