 Carl Levine, a former top home furnishings executive at Bloomingdale's whose exclusive imports and elegant model rooms played a large part in building the retailer's image as the hippest store in Manhattan in the 1960's and 70's, died on Friday in his Fifth Avenue apartment. He was 75.     
 Ed Paschke, a well-known Chicago painter whose neon colors, zombielike figures, acid-toned Kool-Aid formalism and love of urban subcultures brought a distinctively dark vision to Pop Art, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 65. The cause was heart failure, said his son, 
 Morris Gold, who helped make his mother's horseradish a household name, died on Monday in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Woodmere, N.Y. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Marc. He also had Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Gold was the oldest of three brothe
 Gunder Hagg, the Swedish runner who held the world record for the mile from 1945 until 1954, when Roger Bannister ran the first sub-four-minute mile, died Saturday at a nursing home in Malmo, Sweden. He was 85. His death was announced by a friend, Ulf R. Johansson, The Associated Pr
 Dr. Isidore S. Edelman, a versatile scientist and administrator who directed and helped found the Columbia Genome Center at Columbia University, died on Nov. 21 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was gastrointestinal cancer, said a son, Dr. Arthur Edelm
 Lauriston S. Taylor, who helped to establish the first national standard for X-ray exposure in the 1920's and led a series of government and independent organizations over the next 50 years that set radiation exposure standards for workers and the public, died on Nov. 26 in Mitchellville, M
 Philippe de Broca, a surefooted comedic director of the 1960's New Wave in French filmmaking, who created gems like the frenetic adventure ''That Man From Rio'' (1964) and the anti-war ''King of Hearts'' (1966), died on Friday in Neuilly-sur-Seine, outside Paris. He was 71. The deat
 Prince Bernhard, a bon vivant and outspoken member of an ancient German royal family who became husband of one queen of the Netherlands and father of another, died yesterday at a hospital in Utrecht near Amsterdam. He was 93. The Royal House of the Netherlands said that in November 
 Pierre Berton, a sometimes provocative journalist who became the most popular historian in Canada and a well-known television personality, died on Tuesday in Toronto. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, Mr. Berton's agent and television producer, Elsa Franklin, said. For
 Allen Farish Maulsby, a New York lawyer specializing in commercial law and complex antitrust litigation who was associated with the firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore for 57 years, died on Nov. 26 at a hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Old Greenwich. The cause was cancer
 Kurt S. Adler, who helped change the look of Christmas décor as a major importer of handcrafted ornaments and convincing artificial trees, died on Nov. 25 at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was heart failure, said his son Clifford. Mr. Adler also had Parkinson's disease
 Harry Danning, an All-Star catcher for the New York Giants who played on three pennant-winning teams in the 1930's, died last Monday at a hospice in Valparaiso, Ind. He was 93. His death was announced by his daughter, Viktoria Voller. Playing for 10 seasons with the Giants, Danning 
 Lucien A. Hold, a comedy club talent booker and manager who helped discover and promote the early careers of New York comedians like Chris Rock, Jerry Seinfeld and Adam Sandler, died on Nov. 23 at his home in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause was complications of scleroderma, an auto-
 Matthew J. Troy Jr., a flamboyant former city councilman and Queens Democratic leader whose rising political star collapsed in the 1970's after he was convicted of tax evasion and stealing money from law clients, died on Friday at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 75 and li
 Matthew J. Troy Jr., a flamboyant former city councilman and Queens Democratic leader whose rising political star collapsed in the 1970's after he was convicted of tax evasion and stealing money from law clients, died on Friday at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 75 and li
 Dr. Shiing-Shen Chern, a mathematician whose seemingly purely abstract discoveries about the twistings of geometric surfaces have found wide use in physics and mathematics, died Friday at his home in Tianjin, China. He was 93. Dr. Chern also helped set up three mathematics institute
 Jay Van Andel, a co-founder of Amway who spun a soap-selling business in his basement into a $6 billion global sales giant and contributed millions to conservative political causes, died yesterday in Ada, Mich. He was 80 years old and died of natural causes, a family spokesman said.        
 Frederick Fennell, the master band conductor who founded the famed Eastman Wind Ensemble and raised band performance to an art form, died early Tuesday at his home in Siesta Key, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Fennell died in his sleep, his daughter, Cathy Fennell Martensen, said in an e-mail 
 Ronald Keith Williamson, who left his small town in Oklahoma as a high school baseball star with hopes of a major league career but was later sent to death row and came within five days of execution for a murder he did not commit, died on Saturday at a nursing home near Tulsa. He was 51.   
 Cleve Gray, a painter admired for his large-scale, vividly colorful and lyrically gestural abstract compositions, died on Wednesday in Hartford. He was 86. The cause was a massive subdural hematoma suffered after he fell on ice and hit his head on Tuesday outside his home in Warren,
 Darrell Abbott, the beefy guitarist with the lightning-bolt-shaped guitar whose screaming solos for the band Pantera made him a heavy-metal hero known as Dimebag Darrell, was killed Wednesday night at a concert in Columbus, Ohio, by a rampaging gunman. Mr. Abbott, who was 38 and per
 Jackson Mac Low, a poet, composer and performance artist whose work reveled in what happens when the process of composition is left to carefully calibrated chance, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications
 Nathan Most, who in 1993 created the exchange-traded fund, died Dec. 3 at his home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 90. The cause was heart failure, said his son Stephen. Like mutual funds, exchange-traded funds represent a pool of investments in which people may buy shares. But 
 David Brudnoy, an iconoclastic but urbane radio talk show host whose thoughtful treatment of politics and culture made him one of New England's most listened-to radio personalities for nearly three decades, died Thursday evening after a yearlong battle with skin cancer. He was 64. H
 Maxwell McCrohon, a former Australian news correspondent who became editor of The Chicago Tribune, United Press International and then The Los Angeles Herald Examiner, died Wednesday in Washington, where he had made his home. He was 76. The cause was complications of lung cancer, sa
 Peter Bedrick, former publisher of Schocken Books, who later founded two publishing companies, Peter Bedrick Books and Enchanted Lion Books, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76. The cause was an inoperable brain tumor, said his wife, Muriel Bedrick. Howard 
 F. Darrin Perry, who as design director of ESPN Magazine in the late 1990's introduced streamlined typography and cinematic pictorial approaches to appeal to a new generation of sports fans, died on Nov. 25 at his home in San Francisco He was 39. The San Francisco medical examiner's
 Oscar M. Ruebhausen, a longtime New York lawyer, former Bar Association president and adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died on Tuesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92. The death was reported by Bevis Longstreth, a retired partner at Debevoise & Plimpt
 Allen C. Haskell, a nurseryman with an artist's eye, died on Tuesday in a hospital in New Bedford, Mass. He was 69. The death came after a short illness, a family friend, Eugene R. Bertrand Jr., said. His nursery, Allen C. Haskell & Son Horticulturists, with its early-18th-c
 Arthur Lydiard of New Zealand, perhaps history's premier distance-running coach and one of the first to promote fitness through jogging, died Saturday in Texas. He was 87. The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family told Reuters. Lydiard had been in the United States for a m
 Emilio Cruz a Manhattan painter, writer and performance artist, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 66. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Patricia Cruz. When Mr. Cruz began his career in the 1960's, he was associated with artists like Lester Johnso
 Stephen A. Girard Jr., an industrialist and automaker who helped introduce the Jeep, formerly a generic military transport, to civilians around the world, died on Nov. 27 in Napa, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Napa. His death was confirmed by his family. Mr. Girard spent his
 George S. Schairer, an aerodynamics expert at Boeing whose design innovations became standard on virtually all types of military and passenger jet planes, died on Oct. 28 in Kirkland, Wash. He was 91 and lived in Kenmore, Wash. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, sai
 Thomas Thacher, a New York lawyer who was state insurance commissioner in the 1960's and was a founder and former president of the Wave Hill public gardens in the northwest Bronx, died last Friday in North Branford, Conn. He was 88 and formerly lived in Riverdale, the Bronx, and New Canaan,
 Anthony J. McAllister Jr., who helped expand his family's fleet of tugboats and barges to serve ports from New York to Puerto Rico, died on Dec. 9 in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 75 and lived in Pottsville, Pa. The cause was complications of heart surgery, his family said. From 197
 Paul Edwards, a professor of philosophy who edited The Encyclopedia of Philosophy, an enduring and authoritative reference work covering topics from ''the absolute'' to Zoroastrianism, a Persian religion, died on Dec. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause apparently was h
 George S. Rattner, a paint manufacturer and an Off Broadway playwright, died on Wednesday at North Shore Community Hospital in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. For nearly 40 years, Mr. Rattner was head of Paragon Paint and Varnis
 Richard B. Fisher, a former chairman of the Morgan Stanley investment bank, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 68 and had homes in Manhattan and Waccabuc, N.Y. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, his brother, David W. Fisher, sa
 John De Pol, whose familiar woodcut images were long a considerable presence in American art and illustration, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 91 and lived in Cliffside Park, N.J. His death was announced by the University of Delaware Library, where a retrospe
 Seymour Melman, a Columbia University scholar who helped galvanize the antiwar movement from the 1950's on with analyses of the social costs of military spending, died on Dec. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause appeared to be an aneurysm, said Benjamin Abrams, his res
 Larry Buchanan, a film director who went from making inspirational films for Oral Roberts to turning out a spate of lurid, awful B movies, among them ''Zontar, the Thing From Venus,'' ''The Eye Creatures'' and, most famously, ''Mars Needs Women,'' died on Dec. 2 in Tucson, Ariz. He was 81 a
 Solomon J. Sharfman, an Orthodox rabbi who helped make southern Brooklyn an international center of Orthodox Jewish life, died on Dec. 5 at his home in Jerusalem. He was 89 and had formerly lived in Flatbush, Brooklyn. He died in his sleep, his daughter Riki Koenigsberg said.       
 Tom Wesselmann, a prominent Pop artist best known for modernizing the classic female nude into a flat, enigmatic, billboard-friendly silhouette, died Friday at New York University Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after heart surgery, said
 Anthony Sampson, a British investigative journalist who was Nelson Mandela's authorized biographer, died on Saturday at his home in Wiltshire, England. He was 78 and also resided in London. No cause of death was made public, but his wife, Sally, said that Mr. Sampson had had heart t
 Dr. Rollin D. Hotchkiss, a biochemist who, while studying bacteria at Rockefeller University in the 1940's, conducted early research into the way genes are passed between generations, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Lenox, Mass. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure, said
 Dr. Herbert C. Brown, a chemist who won a Nobel Prize for developing a valuable versatile addition to the tool kit for synthesizing drugs and other chemicals, died Sunday at a hospital in Lafayette, Ind. He was 92. The cause was a heart attack, said officials at Purdue University, w
 John W. Culligan, who rose from the mailroom to serve as the chief executive of the American Home Products Corporation, maker of familiar medications like Advil, Anacin and Preparation H, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J. He was 88. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis
 Jack Newfield, a journalist and author who brought Brooklyn moxie, sassy cynicism and often zealous partisanship to muckraking reporting on subjects from New York politics to boxing, died on Monday night at New York-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 66. The cause was kidney cancer
 Son Seals, a Chicago bluesman whose slash-and-burn guitar solos and raspy voice carried a fierce blues spirit into a new generation, died on Monday in Chicago. He was 62. The cause was complications from diabetes, said a spokeswoman for Alligator Records, his label from the 1970's i
 ON an unusually calm day on the Hudson River, Alan F. Blumberg is standing on a cracked concrete bulkhead scattered with splintered wood and rusting pieces of metal. He is paying close attention to a length of PVC pipe with a black wire snaking from its top that is anchored in the water.   
 Pamulaparthi Venkata Narasimha Rao, who as prime minister in the early 1990's oversaw the initiation of India's economic reforms, died Thursday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi. He was 83. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, the hospital said in a state
 Richard J. Barnet, a Kennedy administration official who was a founder of the Institute for Policy Studies, one of the first research organizations in the country to address public policy from a left-wing vantage point, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 75. The cause 
 Dr. John S. Laughlin, a medical physicist and educator who was an early leader in the use of radiation to diagnose and treat cancers, died on Dec. 11 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, where he headed the department of medical physics for four decades. He was 86.       
 Johnny Oates, who managed the Texas Rangers to three American League division titles in the 1990's, the only postseason appearances in the franchise's history, died yesterday at a hospital in Richmond. He was 58. His death was announced by John Blake, a former spokesman for the Rangers, The
 James J. Ling, a plucky Texan whose dazzling financial acrobatics and steely nerve helped make him one of the early leaders in the drive to build giant American conglomerates, died on Dec. 17 at his home in Dallas. He was 81. The cause was esophageal cancer, Charles Ling, his brothe
 Reggie White, the defensive end who was one of the greatest players in National Football League history, died yesterday at a hospital in Huntersville, N.C. White, who lived in Cornelius, N.C., was 43. White's death was announced by his wife, Sara. The cause was not immediately known
 Alexander Marshack, a self-taught anthropological researcher who first interpreted certain Stone Age artifacts as primitive calendars, advancing the notion that prehistoric man was more inventive than previously thought, died on Dec. 20 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 8
 Sir Angus Ogilvy, a prominent British businessman and financier closely tied to the royal family by friendship and by marriage to Princess Alexandra, Queen Elizabeth's popular first cousin, died Sunday at a hospital near his London home. He was 76. The British news media reported th
 Eddie Layton, a sports institution in New York as the organist at Yankee Stadium and Madison Square Garden, died Sunday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. His death was announced by the Yankees, who said it came after a brief illness. Layton customarily declined to reveal his age,
 John D. Deardourff, who helped pioneer the fledgling postwar profession of political consulting and who served a string of prominent Republican clients, died Friday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Douglas L. Bailey, his former business partner.      
 Jerry Orbach, who won fame on the New York stage as one of the last bona fide leading men of the Broadway musical and global celebrity on television as a New York detective on NBC's ''Law & Order,'' died on Tuesday night. He was 69. Mr. Orbach died at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
 Artie Shaw, the jazz clarinetist and big-band leader who successfully challenged Benny Goodman's reign as the King of Swing with his recordings of ''Begin the Beguine,'' ''Lady Be Good'' and ''Star Dust'' in the late 1930's, died yesterday at his home in Newbury Park, Calif. He was 94.     
 Julius Axelrod, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist who helped to discover how chemicals released by nerve cells in the brain regulate mood and behavior, died on Wednesday at his home in Rockville, Md., the National Institute of Mental Health, where he worked for most of his career, said. He wa
 Rod Kanehl, a career minor leaguer who became a fan favorite at the Polo Grounds with the beloved but bumbling original Mets of 1962, died Dec. 14 at a hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, said his son-in-law, Jay Gussin. Losing 120 games
