 Dr. David M. Maurice, a pioneering eye specialist and researcher who invented a device that is commonly used to examine the cornea, died on July 20 in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was a liver tumor, according to Columbia University, where he was a professor of ocular physiology. 
 Gerald Gunther, a constitutional scholar and the author of the definitive biography of his own mentor, Judge Learned Hand, and a legal educator who was sometimes mentioned as a Supreme Court prospect, died on Tuesday night at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 75. The cause was can
 Harold Samuels, an art dealer and self-taught scholar of American art, died on Sunday in Falmouth, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Falmouth. With his wife, Peggy, Mr. Samuels wrote or edited 10 books on art and history, including a well-received biography of the painter Frederic Reming
 BABCOCK-Henry Nash. Henry Nash Babcock, 77, of Old Greenwich, CT. died on July 30, at Edgehill Life Care in Stamford, CT. after a long illness. His wife of 52 years, Mary King Babcock of Old Greenwich & their 6 children survive him: The Reverend Theodore S. Babcock, Warner K. Babcock, Mary 
 COLLOTON-John Edmund, 71. Died at home in Greenwich, CT on July 30, 2002. Husband of Theresa M. Colloton; father of Katharine A. Colloton, J. Edmund Colloton Jr. (Eve B.), Jeannie C. Brooks (Randall L.) and J. Andrew Colloton (Timuneka); and grandfather of Kayla and Madeline Brooks and Hail
 CROOKS-Edwin Smith. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He served the American Stock Exchange with distinction as Exchange Official and Floor Governor. His wit and wisdom were priceless. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Brooks, sons Edwin and Wil
 IRWIN-David K., 62 years old. Died at his home in Destin, Florida, July 15. A Memorial Mass will be offered by his brother, Father Joseph Irwin at Most Holy Trinity Church, Mamaroneck, New York on Saturday, August 3rd at 11 A.M.       
 KIMMEL-Arnold. Of Lakeville, Connecticut, passed away on July 30, 2002 at the age of 76. He leaves his wife Norma, his daughter, Lisa Kimmel White, his son Henry W. Kimmel, his daughter-inlaw, Barbara, and five grandchildren. Arnold was the youngest of four brothers and was predeceased by S
 LEWIS-Dr. Edmund R. Of Roslyn, New York, and Boca Raton, FL. On July 30, 2002. Adored husband of Marilyn. Beloved father of Heidi Coleman, Melanie Lewis and Bonnie Pantell. Cherished grandfather of Alan, Perry, Kenny, Heather, Madison & Jennifer. Funeral services at 10 A.M. Thursday, August
 QUADRACCI - Harry. J.S. Eliezer Associates, Inc. wishes to extend its deepest sympathies to Betty Quadracci, her family and all of the employees of Quad/Graphics, Inc. for the passing of Harry Quadracci, our friend and an industry activist. Our association with Harry Quadracci spans nearly 
 ROBERT-R. Michael. On July 30, 2002. Beloved husband of Vittoria. Devoted father of Miles and his wife Alena and Marco and his wife Veronica. Cherished grandfather of Jessica and Maxim. He was the Chairman of Robert Paper Company. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Frie
 TAPPER-David, MD, 57, died July 23 after a courageous battle with kidney cancer. He joined Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center in Seattle, WA, in 1983 as their first surgeon-in-chief and professor and vice-chairman of Surgery at the University of Washington Medical School. Dr. T
 TOBAR-Theodore (Ted), 78 years young. Beloved husband of Audrey. Adored father of Vicki. Ted Tobar loved life. A masterful photographer, he enjoyed documenting everything around him with an eye for whimsy & beauty. We will miss loving him. Bereavement visits are on Saturday and Sunday.     
 VERINI-Gregory. The Board of Reaching Up, Inc. and the staff of the John F. Kennedy, Jr. Institute for Worker Education express deep sadness at the loss of our friend and board member, Gregory Verini. He was our great advocate. We extend our condolences to his family and friends. Jeffrey Sa
 WALTER-Rev. Joseph John, S.J. Beloved brother of Harold, Walter and Vera Nolan. Dear uncle of Dianne Eliya and Patricia Bohan. Survived by his cousin Theresa Sutton. Reposing at the Jesuit Community Chapel at MurrayWeigel Hall, 515 East Fordham Rd. Visitation Friday, 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of
 Harry Walker, founder of the speakers' agency that represents former Presidents Bill Clinton and Gerald R. Ford and many other celebrities who can earn five- and six-figure fees for each appearance, died on Saturday in Burlington, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Lawrence, N.Y. He died 
 COHEN-Elliott A. On July 31, at his home in Santa Barbara, CA. Beloved husband of Liane. Brother of Roslyn Hart Goldstein, Sidney Cohen and Janice Epstein. Uncle to many nieces and nephews. Memorial contributions may be made to the American Civil Liberties Union.       
 DANIELS-David. Of New York City, died July 30, 2002 at New York Cornell Presbyterian Hospital of complications from a long illness. Born April 10, 1927, St. Paul, MN. Son of Thomas L. and Frances H. Daniels. A graduate of Curtis Institute, Mr. Daniels was a baritone who performed opera and 
 DAVIS-Louis. Age 93, beloved husband of the late Mildred (Muney); adored father of Barbara and Arnold Cohen, Linda & Robert Davis; Poppy to David, Michele, Richard Cohen, Brett and Adam Davis; Great Poppy to Jacob, Lexie and Hunter. A man for all seasons; a CBS news New York hero; patriarch
 FLYNN-Stephen A. Age 80, of Wilton, CT, retired Vice President/Sales Services of the National Broadcasting Company died Thursday, August 1, 2002, in Norwalk, CT. Survived by his wife, Mary Louise Flynn of Wilton; his children, Louise M. Parent of New York City, Stephen A. Flynn Jr. of Denve
 GATI-John. Passed away at 7:30PM on Tuesday, July 30, 2002. He was 74 years old. His wife Edith, his sons Paul (a violinist) and William E. (an architect) survive him. He was a violinist, photographer, Holocaust survivor, motion picture producer, director, cinematographer, professor and a g
 GESNER-Clark. We mourn the loss of our esteemed and cherished member. He brought wit, kindness and music to our clubhouse. He will be sorely missed. The Players       
 GREIFF-Samuel, 84. Died on July 31st, 2002. Devoted husband of Florence Strober and the late Florence Greiff. Beloved father of Glenda (John) Kaufman and the late Lloyd (Andee) Greiff. Cherished grandfather of Josh, Jessica and Brooke. Services Friday 10AM at ''RiversideNassau North Chapels
 HAMILTON-T. Stewart, M.D. retired President and Executive Director of Hartford Hospital, died peacefully on July 29, 2002, with his family at his side. He was 91. Dr. Hamilton began his career in hospital administration in 1941 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. After the war he m
 MACKLER-Harry. He is survived by his sons Steven and Peter, granddaughters Amanda, Camille & Laureen, and friend Marcia Gottdiener. Funeral will be on August 4, at 11 AM, at the Montefiore Cemetery, Springfield Blvd, Laurelton, New York.       
 ROBERT-R. Michael. On July 30, 2002. Beloved husband of Vittoria. Devoted father of Miles and his wife Alena and Marco and his wife Veronica. Cherished grandfather of Jessica and Maxim. He was the Chairman of Robert Paper Company. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Frie
 SEIDENBERG-Paul. On August 1, 2002 at his home in Mamaroneck. He was 72. Loving husband of Barbara (nee Balamut). Cherished father of David Seidenberg and Wendy Seguljic. Dear grandfather of Ryan, Ben, Jeremy and Emma. Funeral Service today Friday 12 noon at Westchester Jewish Center, Palme
 STOCK-Howard F., M.D., 65. Died August 1 after a courageous five-year battle with multiple myeloma. He was president of the Westchester Psychiatric Society, president of the Westchester Medical Society, and a fellow of the American Psychiatric Association. For eight years he was chair of th
 TOBAR-Theodore (Ted), 78 years young. Beloved husband of Audrey. Adored father of Vicki. Ted Tobar loved life. A masterful photographer, he enjoyed documenting everything around him with an eye for whimsy & beauty. We will miss loving him. Bereavement visits are on Saturday and Sunday.     
 ACHSEN-David. 5/1/11-8/2/72. In our treasured memory. His family       
 Gerhard Wessel, a spy for Nazi Germany who went on to head West Germany's espionage agency, died on July 28 at his home in Pullach, a suburb of Munich. He was 88. General Wessel's death was announced by Germany's Federal Intelligence Service, and reported by The Associated Press.   
 Louis Owens, a prizewinning American Indian novelist and scholar, died on July 26 at the University of New Mexico Hospital in Albuquerque. He was 54. The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, the hospital said. He shot himself in the Albuquerque airport, the authorities said.   
 Msgr. James M. Ryan, a Roman Catholic missionary from Chicago who was one of the central figures of religious and civic life in the Amazon for more than half a century, died in Chicago on July 12. He was 89 and had lived in Santarém, Brazil, since 1943. The cause of death was cance
 GOLDMAN-Rev. Ezra. Our temple family deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend. He served our temple as Ritual Director for more than 25 years. We were blessed to have him share with us his mastery of synagogue Nusach and rituals, gained from years of study in the Yeshivot of prewar Pola
 WIMBUSH-William. On July 31, 2002. Beloved brother of John Wimbush. He leaves behind a host of nieces, nephews and friends. He served in the U.S. Army and was an active member of the Duplicate Bridge Club of Mt. Vernon, NY. He was a teacher in the New York City School system for 37 years un
 Stephen G. Cary, who ran public-service work camps filled with fellow conscientious objectors during World War II and later became the leader of the American Friends Service Committee, the national Quaker humanitarian organization, died on Tuesday at his summer home in Chatham, Mass., on Ca
 Frank Inn, who helped train Lassie and Rhubarb the cat, and on his own discovered and made actors of Arnold the pig on ''Green Acres,'' the 500 or so animals on ''The Beverly Hillbillies'' and his greatest star, Benji, the cuddly movie dog, died on July 27 in Sylmar, Calif. He was 86.      
 ALLEN-John Milton. On July 31st, 2002, 75, at home and surrounded by family. A memorial service will be held on Tuesday, August 6, at 11 AM, at Christ Church on Quaker Hill, 17 Church Road, Pawling, New York, (845) 855-1188. ALLEN-John M. The Blanton-Peale Institute holds in fond me
 DENEFF-Carl. 92 died August 1, 2002. Retired physician and doctor on duty during the Japanese Attack on Pearl Harbor, December 7, 1941. The bravery and strength in which you used to save your fellow americans is the model you used for the rest of your life. Loving husband to the late Gertru
 EINFRANK-Aaron R., 69. Died in Rosenheim, Germany on July 11, 2002 of complications due to a fall. An award winning journalist Aaron Robert Einfrank began his career at the New York Herald Tribune while still in college. After graduating from Washington Square College, New York University i
 FINEMAN-Jerry. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Jerry Fineman. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife, Rhoda, and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors       
 GESNER - Clark. Plainfield High School Class of 1956 fondly remembers its fellow New Jersey resident and graduate and mourns his recent death.       
 GRIMM-Charles H. Of New York, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, on July 27, 2002. Husband of Ruth. Father of Donald and brother of the late Sydelle G. Carleton & the late Dorothea Robinson. On his retirement, Mr. Grimm was senior vice president and chief flavor chemist of International Flavors and Fr
 KALAJIAN-Berge. William Wordsworth wrote in his Lyrical Ballads: ''The Poet binds together by passion and knowledge the vast empire of human society!'' And so did Berge Kalajian, whose passing we mark today with a supreme sense of loss, capture the high ground of rediscovery for anguished p
 KAPLAN-Ben. On June 26, 2002, at the age of 88 after a long life of adventure and public service. A great athlete in his youth, superb golfer, he served in the US Army 1942-1945. Landed at Omaha Beach June 6, 1944, and survived the Battle of the Bulge. In postwar Europe he served with UNRRA
 LEVINE-Herman I. Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY, passed away August 3, 2002. Survived by his belvoed wife Eleanor (nee Klugman), four children, a sister and six grandchildren.       
 LOHSE-Robert V. Passed away July 29, 2002, in Pasadena. Beloved husband of Marie, survived by brother Austin (Ginny), a niece, nephew and grandniece and nephews; guardian of cousin Heather and other relatives. Graduated from Millburn High School, NJ. He got a B.A. at Cornell University in 1
 MURPHY-Charles E. Age 84 of Manchester Township, NJ, formerly of Forest Hills, NY, died Thursday, August 1, 2002. He was a partner at KornFerry International, New York City, NY, for twenty years before retiring in 1990 as Executive Search. He was a longtime member of the Civil War Round Tab
 NUNES-Ademar Padron. On July 23, 2002 in Brazil. Father, husband, poet, dreamer, thinker, banker, inspired student of the human condition, playwright, actor, director, singer (and not only in the shower). Dema left us, but he will live forever in our hearts. He is survived by his wife Marta
 PILGRIM-James F. The Trustees and Staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn with deep sadness the passing of our respected colleague, Jim Pilgrim. Over 17 years at the Museum, from 1971 to 1988-first in the Department of American Painting and Sculpture and afterward in various administr
 POTOK-Chaim. Valued friend, gifted collaborator, distinguished colleague. We mourn his loss and extend condolences to the entire family. Nahum and Helen Sarna       
 PRINCENTHAL-Roger. The members, Board of Governors and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our longtime member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his enitre family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 ROSEN-Norman J. Leaves behind his wife Terry and his sons Richard and Robert. Survived by his sister Carla and his nephews Dr. Lewis Jassey, Adam Jassey and Jonathan Jassey. Former Executive Assistant District Attorney for Kings and Queens County. Partner in the law firm of Farber, Rosen an
 SEIDENBERG-Paul. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the Israel Cancer Research Fund are deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime Board Member, Paul Seidenberg. We are grateful for his generous support and extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Barbara and the family. Yashar Hirs
 SNEDDON - Kristine. Our heartfelt sympathy to David and family on the loss of his wife. Iris and Sally Goodgold       
 STABILE-Vincent A. Engineer and philanthropist, formerly of Verona, NJ, died at his home in Naples, FL on July 13. A funeral mass was held in Naples on July 17th. Burial will be August 7, 2002, at 1:30 P.M. in the St. Gertrude Cemetery, 53 Inman Avenue, Colonia, New Jersey. STABILE-
 SULLIVAN-Robert V. Deceased July 27, 2002, at the age of 90. Resided in Palm Beach, Florida, and Fort Lee, New Jersey. Prominent New York jeweler. Executive Vice President with Van Cleef & Arpels from 1972 until 1984. Survived by Arax, his beloved wife of 65 years, sons Dennis and Shawn, th
 WATSKY-Dr. Howard F. ''Poppy'' of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Lawrence, LI on July 24, 2002. Beloved husband of Rhoda and now joins the late Francine to whom he was married 50 years; Loving father of Dr. Steven (Sharon) and Claude Watsky; Cherished grandfather of six and great-grandfather o
 ZICKLIN-Mollie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Mollie Zicklin, beloved mother of Larry Zicklin, who is a cherished friend and dedicated leader of UJA-Federation. As our president, Larry provides inspiring leadership, insightful
 GRIGGS-Lee. A memorial service in celebration of his life will be held Sunday, August 11th at St. Andrews by the Sea, Hyannis Port, MA. at 3 P.M.       
 KAPLAN-Alan H. April 26, '30-August 2, '01. On the first anniversary of Alan's death, his wife, children and grandchildren remember him with love. He was a devoted son, brother, mentor and friend. We miss his intellect, sweetness and humor. He is in our thoughts every day.       
 MECHANIC-Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''And until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand''.       
 RESSNER-Michael. August 4, 1999 ''Something Wonderful.'' All who loved him       
 Phillip Oesterman, a Broadway producer and director who worked extensively with Tommy Tune and whose bawdy musical ''Let My People Come'' was a long-running hit in the 1970's, died on Tuesday at his home in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 64. The cause was heart failure, said his publicist,
 Bernard Haldane, who founded a pioneering career counseling firm and wrote 14 books about changing jobs and looking for work, died on July 21 in Seattle. He was 91 and had lived in Seattle since 1977. His books include ''Career Satisfaction and Success: How to Know and Manage Your S
 GARRETT-Irving ''Gosie''. Age 76, longtime resident of Bayside, Queens, and recently of Hallendale, FL, died August 3, 2002, after a courageous battle with congestive heart failure. He died at home surrounded by his loved ones. Gosie owned restaurants and loved life. He is survived by his w
 GOLDBERG-Ronald. Age 67. Beloved husband of Elayne. Cherished father to Jill, Gail and David. Loved father-inlaw to Elaine Trudell and Stephanie Katz Goldberg and loving grandfather to Nathan Abraham. Son of Tillie and the late Abraham Goldberg. Brother to Murray and Irwin. Ronald was a gen
 KLAIMITZ-Jakob. At the age of 89 on August 2, 2002. Beloved father of Heidi and Leni, father-in-law of Mitchell Berg and grandfather of Alexander and Madeline. Cherished brother of Abe of Miami. He was a man of integrity, intellect and kindness and we will miss him deeply.       
 LEVINE-Herman I. Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY, passed away August 3, 2002. Survived by his beloved wife Eleanor (nee Klugman), a sister, Carolyn Berg, four children, Andrew Levine, Amy Moritz, Adrienne Forrest and Arthur Levine, and six grandchildren, Holly, Daniel and Michae
 MARCUS-Joseph Malcolm. Died peacefully at home in Golden Beach, FL, on August 1, 2002, at age 101. Predeceased by Augusta (nee Hittleman), his beloved wife for 71 years. Formerly from Mt. Vernon, NY, and Lido Beach, LI. Loving father of Helen, Bernard (Dolores), Irene (Bernard) Feuerstein a
 MILLER-Michael. Beloved husband of Margie. Devoted father of Dr. Russell Miller and Lisa Miller. Loving brother of Susan Poretsky. Dear son-in-law of Stelly and Bob Kirsch. Services Monday, 11 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. MILLER-Michael. 
 NEMSER-Rudolph William. Of Arlington, MA, on August 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Judith Wright. Loving father of Sarah Holt of NJ, Katherine Kelly of Idaho and Tobey Nemser of Belmont, MA. Also survived by his nine grandchildren, his brother William Nemser of Austria and his special nephew W
 POLLACK-Bernard G. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Bernard G. Pollack, and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Mary Jane and their family. Rober
 PRINCENTHAL-Roger. On August 3, 2002. Beloved father of Jodi and Jordan. Son of Frances and Milton. Husband of Barbara. Services Monday, August 5, at 10 AM at Gutterman Memorial in Woodbury. A loving caring man, friend to all, who will be missed dearly. Our love goes with him.       
 Roy Kral, whose cool interpretations of classic pop songs in the language of jazz were the trademark of one of jazz's most famous duos, Jackie and Roy, died Friday at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 80. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Jackie Cain, his wife and collab
 Dr. Archer Martin, a British biochemist who won a 1952 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for discovering one of the most widely used analytical techniques for separating and identifying the parts of complex mixtures, died on July 28. He was 92. The prize for developing the process, known as 
 Bernhard Lyon Kohn Sr., a retired tobacco executive and philanthropist, died on Saturday at his home in Bloomfield, Conn. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his family said. He became president of his family's business, the Kohn Brothers Tobacco Company, and sold it in 1953 to
 Chick Hearn, the radio and television voice of the Los Angeles Lakers for 42 seasons, whose vivid broadcast phrases were credited with adding ''slam dunk'' and ''air ball'' to the lexicon of professional basketball, died last night at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 85. The cause 
 Leslie Slote, former press secretary to Mayor Robert F. Wagner and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died on Friday at the hospice at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, said his son, Samuel. As press spokesman to two 
 ALWEIS-Leonard. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Leonard Alweis, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Bertha, and son, Jay, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 BASS-Philip E. On August 5, 2002, at the age of 84 of complications from a stroke. Resided in Boca Raton, Florida. Formerly of Forest Hills, New York. Adoring husband of the late Beatrice (Zarkower) for fifty years. Loving father and greatest supporter of Judith (Jack Levy) and Marcy (Scott
 BIDERMAN-George. The Officers and Directors of the Fire Island Association record, with sorrow, the passing of George Biderman, a former president of the association, on July 20. For 25 years, George Biderman was a leader, first, in the creation of the Fire Island National Seashore and, sec
 KOHN-Bernhard Lyon Kohn, Sr. of Bloomfield, CT and Naples, FL retired tobacco executive and philanthropist, died peacefully at home on Saturday, August 3. Born in Hartford on December 31, 1920, the son of the late Delphine Lyon Kohn and the late Solomon J. Kohn. He was a graduate of Cheshir
 MARX-James Monroe. Beloved husband of Helen. Cherished father of Douglas and Bradley and devoted grandfather of William. Loved brother to Katherine and son of the late Dorothy and Solomon. Honorary Consul General of the Republic of Finland. James was a generous, caring man of stature, loyal
 MEADE-George F. A resident of Scarborough, NY, died August 1, 2002. He was 82. He worked as a production and distribution manager for Time Inc. in New York City for over 40 years. He is survived by his wife Jeanne, and his four children and nine grandchildren. Services were held in Briarcli
 SAVARESE-Anthony P., Honorable. On August 5, 2002 of heart failure at the age of 85. He is survived by his wife, the former Joan O'Dwyer, three stepchildren, Shanee O'Neill, Liam O'Neill and Kelly O'Neill Levy, Judith Militare, a daughter from a prior marriage to Margaret Gleasing, deceased
 TANKEL-Samuel. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and long time friend, Samuel Tankel, & send condolences to his family.       
 THERON-Jacobus J. (known as ''Johan''), on August 3, after a long illness. He was 78. Born and educated in South Africa, Theron came to the United States in 1952 as a member of his country's diplomatic mission. He resigned in 1956 because of South Africa's racial policies and joined the Uni
 Chick Hearn, the radio and television voice of the Los Angeles Lakers for 42 seasons, whose vivid broadcast phrases were credited with adding ''slam dunk'' and ''air ball'' to the lexicon of professional baskeball, died Monday night at Northridge Hospital Medical Center in Los Angeles. He w
 Darrell Porter, the All-Star catcher who overcame drug and alcohol addiction to become the most valuable player of the 1982 World Series with the St. Louis Cardinals, was found dead Monday at a park outside Kansas City, Mo. He was 50. The police in the suburb of Sugar Creek said tha
 Duncan Noble, a dance teacher at the North Carolina School of the Arts and a former member of Ballet Theater, the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and Valerie Bettis's modern dance group, died on Monday at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 80 and lived in Winston-Salem. Mr. Noble 
 Dr. John T. Edsall, a Harvard biochemist known for his pioneering study of proteins, died on June 12 in Boston. He was 99 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. In the early 1940's, Dr. Edsall and Dr. Edwin Cohn wrote ''Proteins, Amino Acids and Peptides,'' which helped revolutionize the und
 Junius Scales, who in the postwar anti-Communist fervor was the only American sent to prison for being a member of the Communist Party, died Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan and Pine Bush, N.Y. He died of heart failure and the effects of 
 BLOCK-Arthur L. August 5, 2002. Retired Principal of P.S. 87 New York, member of the Board of Examiners of the NYC Board of Education, and longtime Assistant Professor (Adjunct) of English at Baruch College. Husband of Adrienne Fried Block, father of Elizabeth & Ruth (daughters of the late 
 DOLLER-Dr. Samuel. Optometrist. Passed away after a long illness with Parkinson's, surrounded by his family on August 5. Beloved husband of 50 years to Shirley Falk, sister to Leah Ozner, father to Shira Grosser and father-in-law to Dr. Mayer Grosser, all of Teaneck, NJ., and father to Benj
 GOODALE-Peter Perkins, painter and sculptor, died at home on August 1, at the age of 46. The cause was pancreatic cancer. Peter was educated at the Middlesex School in Concord, Mass and at Harvard University. He was represented by the Jack Tilton Gallery in New York and had also shown at th
 GORMLEY-Frank J. On August 5, 2002, retired from Citibank and Siemens, served aboard The USS Bennington. Dearest and truest friend, a sweet and lively companion, courageous and passionate about life & love, an adoring and forever adored husband. Frank loved the sea and ships, music, especia
 MARX-James M. The American - Scandinavian Foundation is saddened by the death of Trustee, James M. Marx, and extends sincere condolences to his family. His energy and commitment will be greatly missed. Kristjan T. Ragnarsson, Chairman Edward P. Gallagher, President       
 MOSSAVAR - RAHMANI Shahin. Much beloved son, brother, brother-in-law and uncle and a cherished friend to so many passed away on August 3, 2002 at the age of 48 of heart failure while jogging in Central Park. Following a career in journalism, he earned a Ph.D. in international relations from
 STRUMWASSER-Meyer. On August 5, 2002. Devoted husband of the late Shirley. Loving father of Jerry and Louise & Ronald and Sharon. Dear brother of Ruth Spitalnick. Adored grandfather and great-grandfather of Marni Strumwasser, Brett Strumwasser, Steven and Sharon Block, Robert and Iris Block
 Cortlandt Parker, president and publisher of the Recorder Publishing Company in Bernardsville, N. J., died on Monday at Norwood Caritas Hospital in Norwood, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Portsmouth, R. I., and Boston. The cause was complications from cancer, the company said.
 Norman J. Rosen, a lawyer who was the top deputy to district attorneys in both Brooklyn and Queens, died Saturday morning at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. After he fell ill on Friday, doctors recognized the early symptoms of leuk
 LEYDEN-Arthur F. Jr, 74. Of Little Egg Harbor Township, died Monday at home. He was born in Woodhaven, NY, resided in Wayne, NJ, moving to Little Egg Harbor in 1991. He graduated from Seton Hall University in 1950 with a BS in Chemistry. Mr. Leyden retired from Pfizer Inc, in 1991, after 40
 MacGREGOR - John. The Blue Hill Troupe, Ltd. is deeply saddened by the death of our colleague and dear friend on July 25. A devoted member of the Troupe since 1954 and President in 1976, John graced our productions with his sets, costumes, props and graphics, he served on innumerable commit
 MOSSAVAR - RAHMANI Shahin. Much beloved son, brother, brother-in-law and uncle and a cherished friend to so many passed away on August 3, 2002 at the age of 48 of heart failure while jogging in Central Park. Following a career in journalism, he earned a Ph.D. in international relations from
 SABAN-Alberto M. Age 42 of Tenafly, NJ. Surviving are his wife Claudia, his children Elias, and Shirley, a sister Celia Donzis, his parents Elias and Juana. Services are today 10 am. Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel W-150 Route #       
 SAKSON-William S. On August 6th, 2002, after a long illness. Devoted son of the late Anna and Milton. Loving nephew of the late Frances Finston. A former professor of Business Administration at NYU and Hunter College, who served in the army overseas in World War II. He will be missed by his
 STERNHELL-Sidney. On August 2nd, 2002, at the age of 80. Adored and devoted husband of Claire (nee Weissbrod) for 58 marvelous years. Much loved and loving father of Carol and Emily. Proud grandpa of Daniel and Benjamin. Cherished fatherin-law of Scott Passeser. Obstinate little brother of 
 Charles P. Stetson Sr., a stockbroker, philanthropist and longtime board member of Outward Bound USA, died on Tuesday in Hanover, N.H. He was 82 and lived in Southport, Conn. He was the founding patron of Outward Bound South Africa, established in 1992. It works to improve the lives of youn
 Dr. Count D. Gibson, a leader in the movement to provide medical care and social services to low-income people and a founder of the country's first community health centers, died on July 23 in Hartford. He was 81. The cause was a stroke, said his son George. In 1965, Dr. Gib
 John M. Allen, a retired Reader's Digest executive and former official of the philanthropy set up by the magazine's founders, died on July 31 at his home in Pawling, N.Y. He was 75. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Allen joined Reader's Digest in 1956 and was a sen
 CHUDSON-Walter A. Age 88. Of Larchmont, New York. U.N. economist, Rhodes Scholar, music enthusiast. We mourn the loss of our very dear husband, father, grandfather and father-in-law. We will miss him very much. Tina, Paul, Lucy Alexandra, and Bill       
 HEHRE-Edward J., M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is saddened by the death of the founding chairman and professor emeritus of its Department of Microbiology and Immunology. A distinguished researcher, world-renowned for his outstanding work with carbohydrate en
 KEMPER-Scott. October 9, 1946-August 3, 2002. A man of great dignity who leaves a family of friends worldwide. The reality of him will grow distant but not less powerful.       
 KEPICS-Paul. The Board of Trustees of Town Hall, his colleagues and friends mourn the death of one of our dearest and most devoted employees. Paul Kepics was passionate in his work, vital to the organization and had the greatest appreciation for this New York City landmark that he served so
 MACGREGOR - John. The Blue Hill Troupe, Ltd. is deeply saddened by the death of our colleague and dear friend on July 25. A devoted member of the Troupe since 1954 and President in 1976, John graced our productions with his sets, costumes, props and graphics, he served on innumerable commit
 NOWLING-Steven Paul. November 23, 1950 to August 3, 2002. The family, friends, and co-workers of Steve Nowling mourn his unexpected death. He was much loved for his vibrant spirit, generosity, and wry wit. Steve's life was dedicated to those in need: as an intern in Louisville KY at the Cat
 SHAPIRO - Eitan Yitzchak. Our hearts are broken upon the untimely loss of our beloved son, brother, grandson, great-grandson, uncle, nephew, cousin and friend. He was our tower of strength and courage; our true hero. He will be sorely missed but never forgotten. The family SHAPIRO-E
 Woodrow Wilson Mann, who as mayor of Little Rock in 1957 asked President Dwight D. Eisenhower to send federal troops to prevent a mob from keeping black students out of a high school, died on Tuesday in Houston. He was 85. His son, Woodrow Wilson Mann Jr., said his father had lived 
 Charles Poletti, a son of Italian immigrants who served as governor of New York in the final weeks of 1942, then played a major role in the United States Army's reconstruction of Italy after the fall of Fascism, died Thursday at his home in Marco Island, Fla. He was 99. On Dec. 27, 
 Edsger Wybe Dijkstra, whose contributions to the mathematical logic that underlies computer programs and operating systems make him one of the intellectual giants of the field, died on Monday at his home in Nuenen, the Netherlands. He was 72. The cause of death was cancer, said offi
 Fumio Yoshimura, a sculptor known for his highly detailed wooden replicas of plants, machines and a variety of everyday objects, died on July 23 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 76. The cause was complications from pancreatic cancer, his wife, Carol, said. Mr. Yoshimura,
 ABEL-Milton. August 7, 2002 in Lauder Hill, FL. Predeceased by his beloved first wife, Zelda Melz Abel and was the loving husband of Molly Cohen Abel. Cherished brother of Rose Abel Nelson, devoted father to Steven Abel and Carol Abel Jacoby. Survived by his daughter-inlaw Zara Abel, son-in
 ALPERT-Richard B., Attorney. Age 49. Died in NYC, August 9th, 2002 after a hard fought battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved son of Erwin and Florence (Sterling) Alpert of Hamden, CT. Cherished brother of Daniel Alpert (Partner, Rabbi Eric Weiss) of San Francisco, CA. Devoted friend of Edu
 KEMPER-Scott. October 9, 1946-August 3, 2002. A man of great dignity who leaves a family of friends worldwide. The reality of him will grow distant but not less powerful.       
 McGUIRE-Peter Patrick. Of Briarcliff, NY, died suddenly August 9th. He was a devoted educator and father. He is the son of Ethel & the late Peter McGuire and the brother of Maureen, Dorothy, John, Carol & Delores. Resting Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 PM at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY. Mas
 ROSENBERG-Seymour. Age 78, on August 9, 2002 in Norwalk, CT. Founder of Mevo'ot Betar in Israel. Leader of the American Betar and Director of Camp Betar. He was predeceased by his first wife Jacqueline in 1993 and is survived by his second wife, Judy Moore of Easton. Father of Meira Rosenbe
 RUBIN-Charles R. Justice of the New York State Supreme Court, died peacefully at 95 after a wonderful life filled with all God's blessings. He will be loved and remembered always by his beloved wife of 73 years Pauline, adoring children Alan and Sandra Rubin, and Arline and Howard Herman. H
 SALZBERG-David. On August 8, 2002. Beloved and cherished husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of Barry and Janie Salzberg, Lani and Robert Hopp. Adoring grandfather of Mark, Karen, Dana and Jenna. A gentle person and a gentle man. Always anxious to share with others and spread beauty. Services
 SILCOTT-T. George. Of Mt. Kisco, New York, passed away on Friday, August 9, 2002 at his residence in Mt. Kisco, NY. He was 71 years old. Mr. Silcott was born February 22, 1931, in Boston, Massachusetts to Joseph and Louise Williams Silcott. He was educated in Springfield, Mass, and graduate
 WEICHLER-Theodore J. On August 8, 2002 at age 73. Longtime companion of Thomas Rabig. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to Fire Island Pines Care Center or God's Love We Deliver.       
 William R. Crawford, a retired American career diplomat and expert on the Middle East and Cyprus, died on Sunday at his home in Greensboro, Vt. He was 74 and also lived in Washington, D.C. He had cancer, his family said. In the 1970's, he was ambassador to Yemen and then to 
 Anthony P. Savarese Jr., a former assemblyman from Queens who played a central role in outlawing wiretapping and legalizing bingo before becoming a justice on the State Supreme Court, died on Monday in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 85. He was first elected to the Assembly as a Republ
 John G. Zimmerman, an innovative sports photographer who was among the first to use remote-controlled cameras to give the public the view from the hockey net, the basketball hoop and the bottom of the swimming pool, died Aug. 3 in Monterey, Calif. He was 74 and lived in nearby Pebble Beach.
 CANNIZZARO-Russell. Playbill Incorporated mourns the loss of Russell Cannizzaro, our beloved Secretary and Treasurer who died on Wednesday at the South Nassau Community Hospital after a short battle with cancer. He was 73 and lived in Baldwin, L.I. with his wife Trudy. Mr. Cannizzaro joined
 COOLEY-E. Mason. Friends, colleagues and family mourn the loss on July 25 of Mason Cooley, noted teacher (College of Staten Island, Columbia University), author, aphorist, member of the Society of Senior Scholars at Columbia University, and great friend. Survived by his cousin, Ann Cooley S
 du BOIS-Edwin R. Of Venice, FL, formerly of Glen Head, NY, on August 7th, 2002, at the age of 90. Beloved husband of the late Elva Muriel to whom he was married for 64 years. Survived by his son, Roger, daughter, Diane, two grandchildren, and two greatgrandchildren.       
 FELDBLUM-Professor Rabbi Mayer Simcha. Noted Talmudic scholar, died on August 8, 2002, in Petach Tikvah, Israel, of pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Dr. Ayala Levy Feldblum, his children, Dr. Avi Feldblum, Sholom Feldblum, Professor Chai Feldblum, Dr. Miriam Feldblum and 13 gr
 GERBER-Leon Hillel, Dr. Wonderful husband to Louise Jacobs Craig, and loving father to Robert Mark of Bedford Hills, NY, and Merrell Eve and Edie Mackenzie of Vancover, Canada, died peacefully at his home in Laguna Hills, CA, on Friday, August 9. Born on March 21, 1920, Leon graduated from 
 GRANOFF-N. Henry. 90 years old, died on August 10, 2002. Loving husband for 67 years to his high school sweetheart Jeannette. Loving father of Paul, Dan and Gary. Loving father-in-law to Leslie and Suzanne. Survived by his brother Herbert, sisters-in-law Sally and Shirley, grandchildren and
 KAVANAGH-Roger Pierce Jr. 84, died at his home in Greensboro, NC, on July 25th, 2002. 1953 co-founder Kavanagh-Smith and Co., 1967 cofounder Westminster Homes. Board of Directors Greensboro Urban Ministry, founder low income housing fund for Greensboro Community Foundation. Survived by his 
 KEMPER-Scott. October 9, 1946-August 3, 2002. A man of great dignity who leaves a family of friends worldwide. The reality of him will grow distant but not less powerful.       
 KOENEMAN-John. On August 7, 2002. Beloved companion of Lou Bilka. Dear brother of Victor Koeneman and Ann Ford. Cherished friend of Henry Elfering. He will be deeply missed by many and especially by his colleagues at amFAR. Service Friday, August 23, 3PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & 
 MANDELL-Solomon Shalk. Beloved husband of Pauline Varon. Father of Karen Fleiss and Joanne Streit. Father-inlaw of David Fleiss and Al Streit. Brother of Irving Mandel. Brother-in-law of Marieve Varon and Barbara Varon. Grandfather of Eric, Andrew, Peter and Alex Fleiss and Sarah and Ellen 
 RUBIN-Charles R. Justice of the New York State Supreme Court, died peacefully at 95 after a wonderful life filled with all God's blessings. He will be loved and remembered always by his beloved wife of 73 years Pauline, adoring children Alan and Sandra Rubin, and Arline and Howard Herman. H
 SALZBERG-David. On August 8, 2002. Beloved and cherished husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of Barry and Janie Salzberg, Lani and Robert Hopp. Adoring grandfather of Mark, Karen, Dana and Jenna. A gentle person and a gentle man. Always anxious to share with others and spread beauty. Services
 SOMKIN-Lawrence B. On August 10, 2002, at the age of 71. Devoted son of the late Rose (nee Gilman) and Leo Somkin. Beloved brother of Ilene and brother-in-law of Mark Lowenthal. Cherished uncle to Neil and Elena, Linda and Rob, and Roger, and great-uncle to Michael Leo. Funeral services at 
 TRIVISONNO-Harry J. Of Chatham, NJ (formerly of Brooklyn, NY), on August 9, 2002; husband of the late Vivian; father of Valerie Moreno and Joseph; also survived by five grandchildren and one great-grandchild. He was an architect for the NYC Housing Authority from 1938-1962, and served on th
 WEICHLER-Theodore J. On August 8, 2002 at age 73. Longtime companion of Thomas Rabig. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to Fire Island Pines Care Center or God's Love We Deliver.       
 Vu Ngoc Nha, an unassuming man who lived a double life as a special adviser to two presidents of the American-backed government of South Vietnam, died on Wednesday in his home in Ho Chi Minh City after a long illness, his family said. He was 74. Ho Chi Minh City was called Saigon du
 Duke Dejan, who as head of the Olympia Brass Band perpetuated a swinging, exuberant tradition from the earliest years of New Orleans jazz, died on July 5 in New Orleans. He was 93. Born Harold Andrew Dejan, he began playing saxophone during the adolescence of jazz with masters like 
 Justin R. Meyer, a founder and for almost three decades president and winemaker at Silver Oak Cellars, one of California's most prestigious wineries, died on Tuesday while vacationing with his wife in the Sierra Nevada mountains, near Lake Tahoe. He was 63 and lived in Oakville, Calif.     
 Dr. Lyle B. Borst, a nuclear physicist who helped build Brookhaven National Laboratory's nuclear reactor and was an early member of the Manhattan Project, died on July 30 at his home in Williamsville, N.Y. He was 89. In 1950, Dr. Borst led the construction of the Brookhaven Graphite
 BELL-Drummond C. The family of Drummond C. Bell, retired Chairman of National Distillers and Chemical, sadly announces his death on August 9, 2002. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, August 14, 2002, at 2 PM at the Trinity Episcopal Church in Southport, CT.       
 GASNER-Allan H. On Friday, August 9, 2002. Beloved husband of Beverley Gasner. Loving father of Stuart Gasner (Kate Ditzler), Rose Gasner (Larry Chertoff) and Nellie Allnutt (David). Grandfather of Kate, Emily and Dot Gasner, Natalie and Alex Chertoff, Jack and Sam Allnutt. Brother of Eilee
 GRANOFF-N. Henry. We announce with great sorrow the passing of the first Chairman of the Board. He was an inspiration to us all and will be missed. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his loving family. The Officers and Directors of Elk Associates Funding Corporation GRANOFF-N. Henr
 KLEIN-Marc C. On August 10, 2002. Of Marc Klein Interiors. Beloved husband, father, son, brother, and much, much more. Will be forever in our hearts. He has left his mark on all that knew and loved him forever. Loving, Jill, Jennifer, Mom, and Epis       
 MACGREGOR - John. Of New York and Salisbury, Ct. On July 25, at home, after a brief illness. He was born in 1925 in Michigan, and grew up in Western New York State. A graduate of Yale, he was a world traveler, an interior designer, and a longtime member & former President of the Blue Hill T
 MANDELL-Solomon. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member, Solomon Mandell, and offer their deepest sympathy to his wife Pauline and the entire Mandell family Alpine Country Club Mel Konner, President       
 MARCUS-Frank W. The Gross family is deeply saddened by the death of their beloved brother-in-law and uncle. Dr. Stanley Gross, Dr. Charles and Kathy Gross, and Dr. Charlotte Gross extend their sincerest sympathies to his wife Harriet, and his sons, Carl and William Marcus, in deep appreciat
 MAX-Herbert B. 71. On August 4, 2002, at his home in East Hampton, NY. Lawyer, deal master, deflater of the pompous, expert in the onehanded fungo. Adoring son to Minnie, beloved father of Adam, Eric, and Daniel, and father-in-law of Diane, Denise and Sarah. Laid to rest beside his wife Dor
 SOMKIN-Lawrence B. On August 10, 2002, at the age of 71. Devoted son of the late Rose (nee Gilman) and Leo Somkin. Beloved brother of Ilene and brother-in-law of Mark Lowenthal. Cherished uncle to Neil and Elena, Linda and Rob, and Roger, and great-uncle to Michael Leo. Funeral services at 
 WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. Temple Israel of Great Neck with profound sadness announces the passing of its beloved senior Rabbi, Mordecai Waxman. Rabbi Waxman served the Congregation for the past 55 years with distinction and influenced the lives of generations of people. He was also a major wor
 WHEELER-Ira Benjamin V. On August 10, 2002, in New York City, where he lived, at the age of 81. He was the husband of Mary T. Wheeler, father of Dorothy W. Bacon and Timothy M. Wheeler. He had two granddaughters, Katharine D. Bacon and Sarah H. Bacon. He was the stepfather of Fletcher H. Ba
 Enos Slaughter, the Hall of Fame outfielder whose base-running feat known as the Mad Dash gave the St. Louis Cardinals the 1946 World Series, died yesterday at a hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 86. The cause was complications of colon and stomach surgery, his family said. Pl
 Michael Houser, a guitarist and singer for the rock group Widespread Panic, died on Saturday at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 40. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said the group's publicist, Paula Donner. Mr. Houser announced his illness in a statement last month after miss
 AITKEN - Russell Barnett. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art join in mourning our universally respected Honorary Trustee and Benefactor Russell B. Aitken. His generosity was particulary important to the Museum's Department of Arms and Armor, some of whose renowned perm
 BEHR-Karl Howell. 88, died peacefully at home in East Hampton, NY, on August 10 from pneumonia. He was the son of Karl H. Behr and Helen Newsom, miraculous survivors of the Titanic. Born and raised in NYC, Karl graduated from Lawrenceville School in 1933 and Yale University in 1937. In Worl
 BORIE-Peter. Retired attorney, 88, on August 10, 2002. Son of the Philadelphia painter Adolphe Borie, he attended Episcopal Academy and graduated from St. Paul's School, Yale University and Columbia Law School. He served as a Lt. Commander in the Navy during WWII. After practicing law as a 
 COLEMAN-Peter J., 64, Long Branch, NJ, former member of the NYSE, died August 10, 2002. He is survived by his wife of 38 years, Gretchen Steinthal Coleman; a son and daughter-in-law, Peter J. Jr. and Bennett Coleman; a daughter and son-in-law, Gretchen and Douglas O'Hare, and daughter, Heid
 DAVIS-Stan, fine arts photographer with works in many shows and in permanent collections of several museums died in Sarasota, FL, August 7, 2002 at age 96. Formerly of Weston, CT and NYC, he was also a longtime musician, composer and singer. He began his career in early radio on the ''Capit
 FAMULARE - R. Anthony ''Russ''. Of Dix Hills, L.I., N.Y. on August 11, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Ethel. Dear father of Charles. Lovingly survived by many nieces, nephews and his sisters and brother-in-law, Ann Famulare, Sarah Blitz, Mary Meinster, Ruth and Albert Konefski. Friends m
 GRANDEFELD-John Julius. Of Pelham, NY, died August 11, 2002, at the age of 93. Born on September 21, 1908 and active up until the time of his death, Mr. Grandefeld was a practicing attorney with Cusack and Stiles, NYC. Mr. Grandefeld married the love of his life, Muriel Trigge, on May 21, 1
 HARTMAN-Sanford H. Died in Lenox, MA on August 12th, 2002 at 94. Beloved husband of the late Henrietta Hartman. Cherished companion of Helen Finkel. Adored father of Dana Freyer and Jim Hartman, father-in-law of Bruce Freyer and Evelyn Hartman. Beloved Poppy of Tyana, Daria, Joe, Jakey, Ali
 ISAACS-Eric. Loved and spirited, warm and wild son, grandson, brother, uncle, cousin and friend. Will remain forever in our hearts, touched all who knew him. He was Born to Run. Services August 13, 10:30am Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Glendale, NY.       
 LOUGHRAN-John F. Of New City, NY, died peacefully on July 19, 2002, at his home. After his return to America from Japan in 1998 Mr. Loughran resided in New City, NY. He had been the Senior Officer of J.P. Morgan Bank in Japan and the Far East since the 1960s. His sister Patricia Comerford l
 MAJOR-Henry, on August 11, 2002, at age 81. Adoring husband to Paula. Loving father of Edith, Martin and Sheila, and cherished grandfather to Larry, Sharon, Seth & Jonathan, and great-grandson, Jacob. Born in Breslau, Germany, Henry was a survivor of the Holocaust. Arriving in the United St
 MARCUS-Frank W. On August 10, 2002 at age 88. Survived by his devoted wife of 62 years, Harriet, and their sons, Carl and William, Carl's wife, Karin, and grandchildren Halimah and Noori. Frank was loved by many, and had many friends. He was unfailingly charming, generous, sharp and expecte
 PRESSMAN - Dr. Walter, Little Silver, NJ, died August 10, 2002. Dr. Pressman, born in Brooklyn, NY, was a gifted mathematician. He served in the army, was a member of Congregation B'nai Israel of Rumson, NJ. He is survived by his wife, Sylviette; son, Mark; daughter-in-law, Rosalie; son, Ro
 SADWITH-Howard. Passed away August 9, 2002. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Plainfield and Colts Neck, NJ. Loving husband of Elizabeth ''Libby,'' to whom he was married 61 years. Adored father of Geoffrey (Lori) Sadwith of Ocean, NJ, Barbara (Lee) Emery Mendel of Denver, CO; John (Karen Grot
 SCHATTMAN-Herbert. Died August 11. Son of the late Helen and Sam Schattman. Survived by his loving wife Edna and their children Richard and wife Ruth, Nancy-Ellen and husband Joseph, and his adored grandchildren, Joshua, Noah, Sarah, Rachel and Caitlin. He was with United Factors Corporatio
 SOMKIN - Lawrence. New mark & Company Real Estate, Inc., is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague Larry Somkin. He was a kind, honorable man who was a pleasure to work with and whose dedication, wisdom and integrity elevated those around him. We will mourn his pass
 SPITZ-Bernard. January 12, 1919-August 11, 2002. Passed away peacefully at his home in Los Angeles. Beloved and devoted father of Astrid, Nancy, Henry, Janet and Norma, loving grandfather.       
 SUTHERLAND-Donald J., of Glen Head, NY, on August 10, 2002. Beloved husband of Denise. Devoted father of Paige C. Sutherland, Donald J. Sutherland, Jr., Shelley Sutherland Woodruff, Julie P. Sutherland and Conor J. Sutherland. Loving grandfather of Parker, Sam, Callie and Tana. Dear brother
 WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rabbi Mordecai Waxman. He served with distinction and honor as spiritual leader of Temple Israel in Great Neck for more than half a century. Considered a giant for his natio
 WHEELER-Ira Benjamin V. On August 10, 2002, in New York City, where he lived, at the age of 81. He was the husband of Mary T. Wheeler, father of Dorothy W. Bacon and Timothy M. Wheeler. He had two granddaughters, Katharine D. Bacon and Sarah H. Bacon. He was the stepfather of Fletcher H. Ba
 ZANDEL-Adam A. On Sunday, August 11, 2002, of Rockville, MD, formerly of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved husband of Roma M. Zandel; devoted father of Susan (Lawrence) Chandler of Potomac, MD; cherished grandfather of Lisa (Michael) Cordell and Jason Chandler. Funeral service will be private. In l
 Ed Headrick, who designed and patented the modern Frisbee, died Monday at his home in La Selva Beach, Calif. He was 78. The cause was a stroke, said Scott Keasey, national sales manager for the Disc Golf Association. The association governs and supplies equipment for disc golf, a va
 Galen Rowell, a photographer well known for sumptuous color pictures of the remotest corners of the earth, died on Sunday in the crash of a small plane as it approached the airport at Bishop, Calif. He was 61. He was returning to Bishop from a trip to the Bering Sea, where he had be
 Gary L. Klott, a journalist, syndicated tax columnist and founder of the Web site TaxPlanet.com, died Aug. 10 at his home in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He was 52. The cause was heart disease, said a brother, David L. Klott. Mr. Klott wrote widely syndicated columns on personal 
 Kristen Nygaard, a Norwegian mathematician who laid the groundwork for modern computer programming languages and who helped Scandinavian workers influence the design of labor-saving computer technologies, died on Saturday in Oslo, Norway. He was 75. The cause of death was a heart at
 AITKEN-Russell B. The Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society note with deep sorrow the death of Russell B. Aitken, friend and benefactor. The Russell B. Aitken Sea Bird Colony at our Bronx Zoo serves as a lasting tribute to his thoughtfulness and generosity. David T. Schiff
 BLOOM-Sidney. 80. Died peacefully at home in Palm Beach, FL, on August 11. Beloved husband of Sheila. Devoted father of Andrea, Peter (Challis), and Edward (Debbie). Loving grandfather of Scott, Lainy, Amanda, Michelle and Adam. He was a bright, vibrant, witty and feisty man of high princip
 FELDBLUM - Professor Meyer S. The Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies of Yeshiva University mourns a former colleague and alumnus. A distinguished scholar, he served as Revel's University Professor of Talmudic Literature. Heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dr. Ayala Feldblum, hi
 GOLDSTEIN-Emmy. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends heartfelt condolences to Dr. Allen Goldstein, distinguished member of its Board of Governors on the passing of his dear mother. Hamakom Yenachemchem.       
 KANE-John Francis. 78, on August 12, 2002, of Washington Heights, NY. Beloved lifelong friend of Teresa Lamb of North Bergen. Dear brother of Ann Reilly and Irene Mable. Loving uncle of 14 nieces and nephews, 29 grand-nieces and nephews and many beloved friends. Funeral Mass Friday 11:00 AM
 LEVINE-Harry J. On August 13, 2002, at the age of 102. Beloved husband of Rose. Loving father of Richard and Andrew, and father-in-law of Judith. Cherished grandfather of Joshua, David and Adam. Devoted brother of Florence Wishnow, Beatrice Flagler, Dr. Arnold E. Leeds and the late Dr. Meye
 MAJOR-Henry, on August 11, 2002, at age 81. Adoring husband to Paula. Loving father of Edith, Martin and Sheila, and cherished grandfather to Larry, Erica, of blessed memory, Sharon, Seth & Jonathan, and greatgrandson, Jacob. Born in Breslau, Germany, Henry was a survivor of the Holocaust. 
 MANDELL-Solomon Shalk, was born in New York City in 1918. His mother came from Vilna and his father from Minsk. They immigrated to the United States in 1910 and settled in the Lower East Side. Mr. Mandell spent his pre-school years in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, where his grandfather was a rabb
 MAULER-Julius. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member, and extends heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Rosaline and family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Alan Sussman, President Rabbi Charles A. Klein       
 O'Neill-Kevin T. A New York Times pressman for 35 years, died on August 3, 2002. He is survived by his daughters Karen Fanning, Barbara Gerardi and Margaret O'Neill, his sons-in-law, Thomas Fanning Sr and James Gerardi Sr, his grandchildren Michael, Kelly, Megan and Thomas Fanning Jr, Ashle
 PERKINS-Edward C. On August 12, 2002 in Tyringham, MA. Survived by his beloved wife Petey, their five children Louie Hoblitzell and Kate Clewell, his sons Ned, Jamie and David Perkins and ten grandchildren, Luc, Ben, Max, Kate, Sarah, Eliza, Emily, Matthew, Madeline and Sam. A memorial serv
 REICH-Isidore Alan, peacefully at his home in Boca Raton, Florida, on August 13, 2002. Formerly of New York City and Long Island, New York. Track star and graduate of NYU Class of 1932. The first registered physical therapist in the State of NY. One of the first members of Temple Emanuel in
 SPENCER-Judson. The New York Design Center family mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, Judson Spencer. His courage, fortitude and ever-positive outlook on life and our industry served as a fine example. Contributions in his memory may be made to New York Presbyterian Hospital, the A
 SUTHERLAND-Donald J., of Glen Head, NY, on August 10, 2002. Beloved husband of Denise. Devoted father of Paige C. Sutherland, Donald J. Sutherland, Jr., Shelley Sutherland Woodruff, Julie P. Sutherland and Conor J. Sutherland. Loving grandfather of Emily, Parker, Sam, Callie and Tana. Dear 
 WAXMAN-Mordecai. The International Jewish Committee on Interreligious Consultations (IJCIC) mourns the passing of its past chairman, Rabbi Mordecai Waxman, a pioneer in the field of interreligious dialogue. May his memory be a blessing. Rabbi Israel Singer, Chairman Rabbi Joel H. Meyers, Ch
 Russell Barnett Aitken, an artist, expert marksman, big-game hunter and adventure writer whose substantial philanthropy reflected his passions for art and sport, died on Sunday at his home in Newport, R.I. He was 92. His wife, Irene, said he suffered from Parkinson's disease for mor
 James C. Thomson Jr., a Far Eastern specialist in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations who left government in 1966 because of his opposition to the United States' growing involvement in the Vietnam War, died on Sunday in Newton, Mass. He was 70 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The c
 Rabbi Mordecai Waxman, a Long Island rabbi prominent in the Conservative movement who in a notable speech in 1987 confronted the pope on the issues of anti-Semitism, the Holocaust and Israel, died on Saturday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 85. Rabbi Waxman, speaking 
 Neal Travis, a gossip columnist for The New York Post whose work appeared daily opposite the paper's Page Six celebrity page, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y. The cause was cancer, a spokesman for The Post
 AITKEN-Russell B. The President and Trustees of the American Associates of the Royal Academy Trust extend deepest sympathies to the widow and family of Russell B. Aitken. He was a man of grace, stature and generosity of spirit.       
 GEOGHEGAN - James P. Born in the Bronx. Husband of the late Eileen. Survived by eight children, Matthew, Virginia, Kathryn, Daniel, Patricia, Mary, Anne, Paul and 13 grandchildren. Worked 42 years for Con Edison, Assistant Business Manager for Local 1-2, 1958-1960 and a union activist his e
 KALLMAN - Malcolm B., known as Matt, 73, died April 4, 2002, at home in Portland, Maine. A charming, tough and singularly complicated man, he loved politics, jazz and good conversation. His vibrant blue eyes, deep tan and wry humor sparked his enormous, ebullient presence. Born in Brighton 
 MURRAY-Allen E. On August 11, 2002 of Syosset, NY. Retired Chairman and C.E.O. of Mobil Corporation. Beloved husband of Patricia M. (nee Ryan). Loving father of Allen R., Marilyn, Ellen Allen (Peter), Eileen and Allison Morris (Christopher). Dear grandfather of ten. Fond brother of June Dim
 PLOTKIN-Ron. On August 9, 2002. Beloved nephew of Ruth Ostwald, dear cousin of Susan Ostwald Barnes and Julie Lowy. Devoted friend of the late Arnold Ostwald. PLOTKIN-Ron. On August 9, 2002. Cherished friend, leader, and tireless fighter for his neighbors in the East Village, and Lo
 SIMON-Alfred. The Members, Board of Governors and Officers of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of a good friend and fellow member of long standing and extend their deepest sympathy to his family. Morton Klein, President       
 VERSFELT-William H. Jr. Of Greenwich, CT, died August 12, 2002, after a long illness. Mr. Versfelt was born in Brooklyn, NY, on November 11, 1925, the son of William H. Versfelt and Margaret Drown. He was educated in the Garden City, NY, public schools and received his B.S. degree from the 
 WAXMAN-Mordecai. The Center for Jewish Studies mourns the passing of its devoted Board member and early founder. His spiritual integrity, intellectual vigor, & passionate advocacy of the Jewish people give testimony to his inspired rabbinic and communal leadership. We extend heartfelt condo
 WHEELER-Ira B. The Board and staff of the National Executive Service Corps are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague, friend and Board member, Ira B. Wheeler. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Mary and his family. A. Wright Elliott, Chair Robert N. Sellar, Presiden
 Patrick Chavis, one of five black students whose admission to a medical school in California 30 years ago provoked a Supreme Court battle over affirmative action, died on July 23 in Hawthorne, Calif. He was 50. Mr. Chavis, whose medical license was revoked five years ago for malprac
 Donald J. Sutherland, the founder and chief executive of Quincy Partners of Glen Head, N.Y., one of the first leveraged buyout firms, died on Sunday at his home in Glen Head. He was 71. The causes were cancer and complications from Parkinson's disease, said a daughter, Paige C. Suth
 Kyle Rote, an all-American back at Southern Methodist who became a star receiver with Giants teams that went to four N.F.L. championship games in the 1950's and early 60's, died yesterday at a hospital in Baltimore. Rote, who lived in St. Michaels, Md., was 73. The cause was pneumon
 Larry Rivers, the irreverent proto-Pop painter and sculptor, jazz saxophonist, writer, poet, teacher and sometime actor and filmmaker, whose partly self-mocking bad-boy persona encapsulated the spirit of a restless era that shook up American art, died on Wednesday at his home in Southampton
 Jesse Brown, a secretary of veterans affairs under President Bill Clinton who helped expand veterans benefits to cover post-traumatic stress disorder, exposure to Agent Orange and illnesses related to the Persian Gulf war, died on Thursday at his home in Warrenton, Va. He was 58. Th
 AUBRY-Jules Weber, 90. Of North Branford, CT., formerly of New York, on Wednesday, August 14 after a brief hospitalization in New Haven, CT. After graduating from The Horace Mann School, he joined the family firm of Jules Weber Inc., from which he eventually retired as CEO. During 22 years 
 DANIEL-Francis. Died suddenly and unexpectedly at age 67 on August 15, 2002, in Miami Beach, FL. Devoted husband for 22 years of Julie Gilbert Daniel and sonin-law of Henry Goldsmith & the late Janet Fox Goldsmith, he was a celebrated Acoustician, active in NABET for many years. His family 
 RIVERS-Larry. The Board of Governors of The National Arts Club expresses it profound sorrow at the passing of valued member Larry Rivers. We will treasure the memory of his frequent visits to our historic clubhouse and the performances there with his band. He was a wonderful, supportive fri
 TRAVIS-Neal. A dear man, charming, witty, always honest, always there for a friend. He will be greatly missed. With heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Tolly, and family. Martin Richards       
 WELLINGTON - Dean R. Loving husband of Laura J. and cherished son of Norma Welligton Koster and Cary L. Wellington and loving step son of Bernie Koster. Passed away on Thursday, August 15, 2002. He leaves behind the legacy of four wonderful children, nine devoted brothers and sisters and le
 Robert F. Borkenstein, who revolutionized enforcement of drunken driving laws by inventing the Breathalyzer to measure alcohol in the blood, died last Saturday at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89. The Breathalyzer is a portable device that can determine whether the person bei
 Steven P. Yokich, the recently retired president of the United Automobile Workers whose salty language and zeal for confrontation accompanied a keen understanding of the automobile industry, died here today. He was 66. The cause was a stroke that he suffered on Thursday, a spokesman
 Steven P. Yokich, the recently retired president of the United Automobile Workers whose salty language and zeal for confrontation accompanied a keen understanding of the automobile industry, died here today. He was 66. The cause was a stroke that he suffered on Thursday, a spokesman
 Willis Hudlin, an outstanding pitcher with the Cleveland Indians in the late 1920's and 1930's and the victim of Babe Ruth's 500th home run, died on Aug. 5 in Little Rock, Ark. He was 96. Pitching 15 of his 16 major league seasons with the Indians, Hudlin had a record of 158-156. Wi
 Meredith Knox Gardner, a linguist and puzzle solver whose skill at deciphering codes played a pivotal role in the Rosenberg spy case, died on Aug. 9 at a hospice in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 89. Fluent in French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Lithuanian, Spanish and Russian
 AUBRY-Jules Weber, 90. Of North Branford, CT., formerly of New York, on Wednesday, August 14 after a brief hospitalization in New Haven, CT. After graduating from The Horace Mann School, he joined the family firm of Jules Weber Inc., from which he eventually retired as CEO. During 22 years 
 BARDY-Hon. Theodore A. Died Aug. 15, 94 years young. Beloved husband of fifty-nine years to Carole Lampeas Bardy. Devoted father to Diane Bardy Zafiros, Cynthia and Steve Milona, Patricia and David Walker, Theodore Jr. and Lillian Bardy. Adored grandfather of William and Carolyn Zafiros; St
 BENJAMIN-Robert Alan. Beloved husband of Jean, of Raleigh, NC, formerly of Tuxedo Park, NY, passed away on Monday, August 12, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Jean; daughters Penny Pesaturo and husband Michael, and Robin Durr and husband Bill; granddaughter Morgan Holly; bro
 BROWN-Jesse. The Trustees of Fisher House Foundation express their sincere condolences to the family of former Fisher House Foundation Trustee Jesse Brown who served with distinction from 1997 through 2000. His counsel and advice have resulted in a continued expansion of the network of Fish
 DANIEL-Francis. Died suddenly and unexpectedly at age 67 on August 15, 2002, in Miami Beach, FL. Devoted husband for 22 years of Julie Gilbert Daniel and sonin-law of Henry Goldsmith & the late Janet Fox Goldsmith, he was a celebrated Acoustician, active in NABET for many years. His family 
 DELL'AMICO-Vando. The Board, Officers, Trustees and Staff of United Seamen's Service mourn the loss of former Executive Director, Vando Dell'Amico, a dedicated social servant and friend to America's seafarers. We will remember Dell's commitment to his mission, his long friendship and his pr
 EFORO-John F. A man of valor, accomplishment, wisdom, humor and integrity, who won the hearts and admiration of all who knew him. To dear Tina, Carla (Steven), Joanne (Donald), John (Judie), and grandchildren Elliot, Robert, Andrew, John Thomas ''J.T.'' and Alexander. My deepest affection a
 FENSTERMACHER - Charles A. Died at home in Los Alamos, NM, on July 28. He was born March 31, 1928, in Scranton, PA. His parents were Robert George and Mae Richards Fenstermacher. He earned a BS from the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science in 1950, then an AB in physics from Swarthm
 GAZIK-L. Martin ''Ladi'', Esq. 91, of Falls Church, VA, died August 4, 2002, after a fall at his home. A violinist and master chess player, he was a longtime employee of the Department of Commerce. He helped to create Liberia's first map in the early 1950's and supervised voter registration
 KNIGIN-Kenneth S. 73, died in his Manhattan home August 16th, 2002, of a heart attack. Son of the late Jack Knigin and Miriam Sheldon Knigin Leitman. Mr. Knigin, a retired lawyer, was highly regarded as an international environmental consultant. A graduate of NY University and Brooklyn Law 
 MIDDLETON-Henry Bentivoglio. On August 17, 2002, at age 78. Direct descendant in the male line from Arthur Middleton, signer of the Declaration of Independence. Beloved husband of Payne Whitney Middleton. Loving father of Laurinda Oswald, Alison de Peverelli and the late Julia Serena. Grand
 PFEIFFER - Dr. Raymond Louis, 101. Leading ophthalmologist, scientist, medical author, teacher and father departed on June 1, 2002 in New Canaan, Connecticut. He was born on May 16, 1901, in Lancaster, Ohio, to William Fredrick Pfeiffer and Louise Katherine Metzger Pfeiffer. In 1924 he earn
 RIVERS-Larry. The Board of Governors of The National Arts Club expresses it profound sorrow at the passing of valued member Larry Rivers. We will treasure the memory of his frequent visits to our historic clubhouse and the performances there with his band. He was a wonderful, supportive fri
 SCHARF-Herbert L., 77. Attorney, died August 6, after a four year battle with cancer. He served in the Navy and graduated from JHU and Harvard Law School. He is survived by his wife Loulou, 2 children, and 7 grandchildren. Receiving at home.       
 SHER-Dr. Norman. Died on August 1, 2002, in Abington, PA. He practiced psychiatry and child psychiatry in Brooklyn for many years, and was a past president of The Brooklyn Psychiatric Association. Beloved husband of the late Dr. Joanna Hollenberg Sher. Loving father of Jonathan Sher and Kat
 TERWILLIGER-Donald Leroy, died August 10, 2002, at the age of 95 in Sarasota, FL. He was a graduate of Lafayette College, Class of '28, a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and a founder of Alpha Phi Omega. He served as a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy from 1942-1946. He founded D.L. Ter
 TRAVIS-Neal. A dear man, charming, witty, always honest, always there for a friend. He will be greatly missed. With heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Tolly, and family. Martin Richards       
 Edward Brodney, an artist assigned by the Army to paint idyllic pictures showing World War II soldiers praying, eating and playing baseball -- anything but being blown apart by bombs -- died on Aug. 3 at his home in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 92. His daughter, Jeanne Brodney, said he h
 Elias Bredsdorff, the biographer of Hans Christian Andersen, who said that his mission was to liberate Andersen from the nursery bookshelf and establish him as a serious author, died Aug. 8 at his home in Copenhagen. He was 90. Mr. Bredsdorff, who taught at Cambridge University for 
 BREENE-James Kibbe Jr. Of Warren, CT, died August 16, 2002, at the age of 74. Longtime educator, he leaves his wife of 47 years, Kathleen, brother Peter of Devon, PA, daughters Bailey, Julie and Jane, son Jamer, daughter-in-law Lee Breene, sons-in-law Larry Gendron, Townsend Ziebold and Joh
 EDGE-Peter. 89, died peacefully at home on August 16th. His parents were Charles Noel Edge and Rosalie Barrow Edge. He was predeceased by his first wife of 30 years, Mary Kerr Edge. He is survived by his wife Charleen Greer Edge, his three children, Deborah, David, Steven Edge, and seven gr
 KNIGIN-Kenneth S. 73, died in his Manhattan home August 16th, 2002, of a heart attack. Son of the late Jack Knigin and Miriam Sheldon Knigin Leitman. Mr. Knigin, a former lawyer, was highly regarded as an international environmental consultant. A graduate of NY University and Brooklyn Law S
 MIDDLETON-Henry Bentivoglio. On August 17, 2002, at age 78. Direct descendant in the male line from Arthur Middleton, signer of the Declaration of Independence. Beloved husband of Payne Whitney Middleton. Loving father of Laurinda Oswald, Alison de Peverelli and the late Julia Serena. Grand
 MOHR-Alfred C. 98, of West Caldwell, NJ, on July 22, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Martha (Koepell) Mohr. Private funeral services were at Funeral Service of New Jersey, Hillside, NJ. A former member of the Department of Germanic Languages and Literature at Yale University. Previous to 
 OLIVER-Ward L., M.D. 100, of Cobleskill, New York, died on Friday, August 16, 2002. Dr. Oliver practiced medicine for more than sixty years, fortythree of which were spent in practice with his wife, Dr. Virginia Loucks Oliver. He is survived by his wife, five children, and ten grandchildren
 VAN NAME-John F. 81, of Vero Beach, FL, died August 13, 2002. Surviving are his wife of 34 years, Beverly; two sons Robert P. Van Name, of Melbourne, FL, and Dr. Gregory Applegate, of Los Angeles, CA; one daughter Nancy Van Name, of West Sayville, NY; one brother Robert C. Van Name, of Vero
 Benjamin C. Thompson, an architect whose exuberant recreation of Faneuil Hall in Boston inspired festival marketplaces around the country and whose Design Research International stores have influenced home furnishings to this day, died on Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 84. 
 Harvey E. Kapnick, a former chairman and chief executive of Arthur Andersen who in the 1970's raised concerns about conflicts of interest between the accounting and consulting arms of the firm, died last Friday. He was 77 and lived in Naples, Fla. Mr. Kapnick died of a heart attack 
 Jeff Corey, a character actor who was barred from his field in the 1950's because of past association with the Communist Party and then became a prominent Hollywood acting instructor, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 88 and lived in Malibu. Among his acting students were a coll
 John Roseboro, an outstanding catcher for the Dodgers who was remembered as the victim of an astonishing bat-wielding attack by the Giants' star pitcher Juan Marichal during a game in 1965, died Friday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 69. Roseboro had been treated for a heart ai
 BREENE-James Kibbe Jr. Of Warren, CT, died August 16, 2002, at the age of 74. Longtime educator, he leaves his wife of 47 years, Kathleen, brother Peter of Devon, PA, daughters Bailey, Julie and Jane, son Jamer, daughter-in-law Lee Breene, sons-in-law Larry Gendron, Townsend Ziebold and Joh
 EDGE-Peter, 89. Died peacefully at home on August 16th. His parents were Charles Noel Edge & Rosalie Barrow Edge. He was predeceased by his first wife of 30 years, Mary Kerr Edge. He is survived by his wife Charleen Greer Edge, his three children, Deborah, David, Steven Edge, and seven gran
 EIBERSON-M. Arthur. Former Supervising Judge of Nassau County District Court. Passed away Sunday, August 18, 2002. He leaves behind his loving wife Freda, daughters Debra Gordon and Francine Capicchioni and their husbands Stephen and Edward. Cherished grandchildren Jeffrey, Daniel, Amy, Geo
 FARRAH-Jere Tiffin. On August 19, 2002. The Dean, Board of Trustees, and Staff of The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine mourn the passing of Jere Farrah. We will miss his intelligent wit, his dedication, and unique insights. The Cathedral extends its deepest sympathy to his mother, Ma
 FERENTZ-Avery Hugh, D.C. Sudden and unexpected at age 49 on August 18, 2002. Former President of the International College of Applied Kinesiology. Long time chiropractic practitioner in the Columbus Circle area. Nationally known and well respected lecturer in his field. Beloved husband of S
 GOURAUD-Jackson S., Colonel Jackson S. Gouraud (ret.) died August 17, 2002. He was 83 years old. Jackson Gouraud was born on September 7, 1918 to Powers St. George Gouraud & Irma Schlesinger Hunt in New York City. He graduated from Townsend Harris and the Wharton School of the University of
 GUADAGNO-Maestro Anton, died on August 16, 2002, in Vienna, Austria, having conducted a performance of ''Otello'' at the opera festival in St. Margarethen, Austria the prior day. Maestro was artistic director and principal conductor of the Palm Beach Opera for over eighteen years. He was a 
 KAUFMAN - Seymour. Bright, loving, caring and devoted husband, father, grandfather and brother. He will be remembered for his generosity & love of life. We will all miss you and love you madly.       
 LONGCOPE-Edwin. A preeminent maritime lawyer who handled several of the most significant marine disaster case of the 20th century, died in New York August 12, 2002 from complications following hip surgery, at the age of 92. Mr. Longcope was awarded the French Legion of Honor in 1969. Interm
 MASON-Percy, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Pres. William G. Stein, M.D., V.P.. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secy.
 MOHR-Alfred C. 98, of West Caldwell, NJ, on July 22, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Martha (Koepell) Mohr. Private funeral services were at Funeral Service of New Jersey, Hillside, NJ. A former member of the Department of Germanic Languages and Literature at Yale University. Previous to 
 OLIVER-Ward L., M.D. 100. Of Cobleskill, New York, died on Friday, August 16, 2002. Dr. Oliver practiced medicine for more than 60 years, 43 of which were spent in practice with his wife, Dr. Virginia Loucks Oliver. He is survived by his wife, five children, and ten grandchildren. Funeral s
 REDDY-Patrick D. On August 18, 2002 of Garden City, New York. Devoted husband of Patricia (nee Copeland). Loving father of Kathleen, Peter and his wife Jill, John and Thomas. Dear brother of Neil, Dennis and his wife Beth. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave. @ 12th St. Garden Ci
 SCHER - Robert. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia; adored father of Ellen and Moshe; devoted grandpa to Avi and Ricky; loving brother, uncle and friend to all. Bob was a gentleman & a scholar, a kind, generous, compassionate man. In his quiet, humble way, he taught us how to love life in s
 WALLSTEIN - William Charles, 88, died on August 16, 2002 after an illness of several months. Beloved father of Nancy W. Newkirk of Bethesda, MD, Richard S. Wallstein of London, England, and the late Michael W. Wallstein, father-in-law of Thomas and Philippa, grandfather of Jennifer and Chri
 WILMERDING - Lucius Jr. Died at his summer home in Maine on August 13, at the age of 96. He was born in New York City January 23, 1906, the son of Lucius Wilmerding Sr. and Helen Cutting. He was educated at St. Paul's and the Evans School; AB Princeton, 1927; MA Queens College, Oxford, 1929
 YANOWITZ-Robert M. Of Secaucus, NJ, passed away Monday, August 19th, 2002. He is survived by his wife, Marla; daughters, Barri, Alyssa Huff; son, Jason; grandchildren, Martin and Zoe Huff; sister, Marilyn Spector. Funeral service Tuesday, 11:30 AM, Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, NY
 Carter L. Burgess, who had served as president of Trans World Airlines, ambassador to Argentina and president of the Foreign Policy Association, among other posts, died on Sunday in Roanoke, Va., where he lived. He was 85 years old. He suffered two strokes this summer, The Roanoke T
 Dick O'Connell, the Red Sox executive who revived a floundering franchise and built Boston's pennant-winning teams of 1967 and 1975, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Lexington, Mass. He was 87. In September 1965, when Mr. O'Connell succeeded Pinky Higgins as general manager, the 
 Herbert B. Max, a retired lawyer and financier who wrote a book on private equity investing, died Aug. 4 at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 71. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Max was the author of the second edition of ''Raising Capital: Private Placement Form
 Martin Deutsch, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology physicist who discovered the strange short-lived substance known as positronium, died on Friday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. Dr. Deutsch made his discovery in 1951. Positronium, whose existence had been theorize
 CARNAHAN-A. Vernon. The Board of Governors and Members of The Circumnavigators Club records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed Past International President, A. Vernon Carnahan. Through the past decades, this beloved and treasured member has served our century-old organization 
 GREENSTEIN - Nathan M., MD. Died on August 19, 2002 at the age of 95. Resident of New Rochelle. Devoted father to Nancy Batterman, Dr. Robert M. and wife Arlene. Grandfather of Jennifer & David Carlson, Michael and Veronique, Debra and Christopher Graham, Suzanne, Daniel. Great grandfather 
 KNIGIN-Kenneth S., 73. Died in his Manhattan home on August 16th, 2002, of a heart attack. Son of the late Jack Knigin and Miriam Sheldon Knigin Leitman. Mr. Knigin, a former lawyer, was highly regarded as an international environmental consultant. A graduate of NY University and Brooklyn L
 LIVINGSTON-William L. (Billy), artist-producer. Died 17 August, 2002, after a long illness. Beloved friend of Joel Key Rice. He is also survived by his brother, Dr. Carver Van Wyke Livingston of Scottsdale, Ariz., 3 nephews and a niece. A gift of remembrance may be made to: Livingston Rice 
 VAN NAME-John F., 81. Of Vero Beach, Florida, died on August 13, 2002. Surviving are his wife of 34 years, Beverly; two sons Robert P. Van Name, of Melbourne, FL, and Dr. Gregory Applegate, of Los Angeles, California; one daughter Nancy Van Name, of West Sayville, NY; one brother Robert C. 
 WALLSTEIN - William Charles, 88, died on August 16, 2002 after an illness of several months. Beloved husband of 61 years of Eleanor Scholle, fahter of Nancy W. Newkirk, of Bethesda, MD, Richard S. Wallstein of London, England, and the late Michael W. Wallstein, father-in-law of Thomas and P
 WIENER-Arthur. Died August 20, 2002 at age 99.5. Loving husband of Ruth Wiener. Beloved father and grandfather of Patricia Marx and Tara Marx. Highly esteemed member of the business community and respected neighbor. His warmth, wisdom and giving nature will be forever implanted in our heart
 Richard I. Queen, an American diplomat among those taken hostage by Iranian militants in 1979, who was released early when he developed multiple sclerosis, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 51. The cause was complications of multiple sclerosis, his brother, Ale
 Swami Satchidananda, the guru with the gigantic cottony beard who opened the Woodstock festival by calling music ''the celestial sound that controls the whole universe,'' died on Monday in Madras in South India. He was 87. He lived in Yogaville, Va., a community he founded, and was 
 Anton Guadagno, the artistic director and principal conductor of the Palm Beach Opera in Florida, and a frequent guest conductor in European and American opera houses, died on Friday in Vienna. Mr. Guadagno, who had homes in Vienna, Palm Beach and New York, was 79 and had conducted Verdi's 
 Bernard Canavan, 66, a former president of American Home Products, a major pharmaceutical and health care company, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Jupiter, Fla. The cause was heart disease, his family said. A native of Scotland, he was a practicing physician in Toronto before
 Eduardo Chillida, a Basque sculptor internationally celebrated for his graceful, monumental abstractions in steel, wrought iron, stone and concrete, died on Monday at his home near San Sebastián, Spain. He was 78. His family said that he died after a long illness. In the 19
 BERGER - M. Alexander. Born in Buffalo, New York and lately of Manhattan and Hillsdale, N.Y. Died on August 20 at his home in New York City at the age of 56 after a prolonged and noble battle with cancer. He spent 25 years as VP/Senior Account Director with top US ad agencies including J. W
 FARRAH-Jere Tiffin. Age 57, died suddenly of a heart attack, August 18, 2002. Beloved son of Mrs. Jere T. Farrah Sr, uncle of Tiffin. Funeral held in South Carolina. Esteemed member of the staff at The Cathedral Church of St John the Divine where a memorial service is planned. Contributions
 KNIGIN-Kenneth S., 73. Died in his Manhattan home on August 16th, 2002, of a heart attack. Son of the late Jack Knigin and Miriam Sheldon Knigin Leitman. Mr. Knigin, a former lawyer, was highly regarded as an international environmental consultant. A graduate of NY University and Brooklyn L
 KRASSNER-Irving (Chuck). Hollywood, FL., 93, August 19, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia Krassner and the late Ruth Friedwald Krassner. Devoted father to Joan Pompadur & Marjory Tracy. Devoted stepfather to Frank (Nancy) Friedwald and the late Herbert Friedwald. Loving grandfather t
 PRAWER-Murray. The law firm of Heller, Jacobs & Kamlet, formerly known as Thurm & Heller, with deepest sorrow, mourn the loss of Murray Prawer, our former Partner and cherished friend. Everyone who had the privilege of knowing Muz, loved him: he was a man whose love of his family, devotion 
 SHER-Norman, M.D. The Department of Psychiatry at Maimonides Medical Center is saddened to learn of the death of Norman Sher, M.D., one of the founding doctors of our community mental health center. Our condolences to his family. Marvin H. Lipkowitz, M.D.       
 WALLSTEIN - William Charles, 88, died on August 16, 2002 after an illness of several months. Beloved husband of 61 years of Eleanor Scholle, fahter of Nancy W. Newkirk, of Bethesda, MD, Richard S. Wallstein of London, England, and the late Michael W. Wallstein, father-in-law of Thomas and P
 Alfred Ligon, the owner of one of the nation's oldest black-owned bookstores, who rebuilt the business after it was burned to the ground in the Los Angeles riots of 1992, died on Aug. 10 at a hospital in Montebello, Calif. He was 96 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Ligon's store, the A
 Allen R. Myerson, an assistant business and financial editor of The New York Times and a former national correspondent for the paper, died yesterday. He was 47 and lived in Glen Ridge, N.J. Mr. Myerson fell from a parapet above the 15th floor of the newspaper's building, at 229 West
 BALZARINI-Frank. The Officers, Directors, Employees & Owners of Emigrant Savings Bank mourn the passing of Frank Balzarini, Senior Vice President, who served the Bank so well for 41 years. Frank fought his illness bravely for many years and always without complaint. We will miss him. Our he
 CHUDNOW - Joseph. The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the loss of Joseph Chudnow. Known for his devotion to Israel and to The Hebrew University, Joe was active in philanthropic activities on local & national levels. Joe fulfilled
 FORMA-Xenia Rose. On August 22, 2002 at age 67 after a long bout with cancer. Mrs Forma was a psychotherapist and author of ''Widow's Journey, a Return to the Loving Self''. Beloved wife of Warren Forma and the late concert cellist, Leonard Rose. Loving stepmother of Carol Forma, Thomas For
 KOENEMAN-John. A true gentleman and born optimist, John took a genuine interest in people and had a rare gift for putting others at ease. In his three years working at the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR), his personal charm, can-do attitude, and sometimes outrageous sense of h
 LEWIS-Joseph S. Our entire family deeply mourns the passing of Joseph, who lost his 10 year battle with leukemia on August 20, 2002. Truly a gentleman, his elegance and grace touched many people. We will remember him especially for his generosity, love of life, music and writing, but most o
 NAIDAMAST - Daniel, 80 years old, a Great Neck resident, passed away quietly in his sleep at the Nesconset Nursing Home on August 22, 2002 following a long illness. Professionally, Mr. Naidamast was Aerospace Engineer and worked for several companies in the metropolitan New York area includ
 OLDE-Ernest J. A pioneer in the discount stock brokerage business and founder of Olde Discount Corporation, died on Sunday, August 4, 2002 from complications arising from cancer. Interment took place at a private ceremony held on August 7, 2002. Mr. Olde founded the predecessor to Olde Disc
 SOHMER-Harold. Died on August 22nd, 2002. Devoted husband of Esther, cherished brother of Irene Kanfer and loving uncle of Abraham, Debbie, and Skyler. He will be greatly missed.       
 VINES-William L., 58. A regional sales representative for Mephisto shoes, died of cancer on August 16 in Rockville, MD. He maintained a home in New York City for more than 30 years. Bill was born in Brooklyn, NY, raised in Gales Ferry, CT, and graduated from Mitchell College, New London, CT
 Alexander Klein, an author whose spy thriller ''The Counterfeit Traitor'' was made into a Hollywood movie in 1962, died at his home in Manhattan on Aug. 13. He was 83. ''The Counterfeit Traitor,'' published by Henry Holt in 1958, was based on the life of a Swedish oil executive, Eri
 Allen E. Murray, the former chairman and chief executive of Mobil from 1985 to 1994, died on Aug. 11 in San Diego. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, which occurred while Mr. Murray was visiting California, said his son, Allen R. Murray. The elder Mr. Murray lived in Syosset, 
 John Mather Lupton, a Connecticut politician and educator who had a Manhattan advertising agency, died on March 16 in Orange City, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Orange City. A memorial was held recently in Mattituck, N.Y., his hometown. Mr. Lupton, a Republican, served two ter
 John Willett, an English author, translator and cultural historian and one of the world's leading authorities on Bertolt Brecht, died on Tuesday in London, where he lived. He was 85. Along with Ralph Manheim, Martin Esslin and Eric Bentley, Mr. Willett was one of the people primaril
 BENJAMIN-Lawrence H., 86. Of Freehold, NJ, on August 22nd, 2002. His wife Mildred Tannenbaum Benjamin died in 1990. Surviving are a son & daughter-in-law, Dr. Gerald C. and Susan Benjamin, a daughter Joyce Dankner, two sisters, Renee Kaminsky and Helen Belson, and a granddaughter Allison Da
 FIDELMAN-John R., 62. Of Jackson Heights, N.Y. Beloved son of Dorothy and the late John Fidelman. John served in the Viet Nam war and graduated from Fordham University. He is also survived by his sisters Nancy Karr and Barbara Adler. A memorial service will be held at the Trinity Episcopal 
 KEAVENEY-Peter F., 50. An international banking officer with ABN AM RO Bank, died on August 23, 2002. He was a son of Margaret Kelly Keaveney and the late John Keaveney. Funeral will take place Wednesday. Visitation will be Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at Costello - Greiner Funeral Home, Woodbr
 Hoyt Wilhelm, the first reliever elected to the Hall of Fame, the last man to throw a no-hitter against the Yankees and a pitcher of almost unequaled longevity in the major leagues, died Friday in Sarasota, Fla. His wife, Peggy, told The Associated Press that the cause of death was 
 King-lui Wu, an architect whose students at the Yale School of Architecture over four decades included some of the most prominent designers of their time, died on Aug. 15 at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Hamden, Conn. As his first principle in architecture, Profess
 BALBIANI-Andrew Stephen. Passed away August 14, 2002, at the age of 88. Civil engineer and retired partner of Tippetts - Abbett - McCarthy - Strat ton (TAMS). Memorial service to be scheduled for September. Loving father of Barbara, Jean and son-in-law Ronald. Proud grandfather of Michael a
 FORMA-Xenia Rose. On August 22, 2002 at age 67 after a long bout with cancer. Mrs Forma was a psychotherapist and author of ''Widow's Journey, a Return to the Loving Self''. Beloved wife of Warren Forma and the late concert cellist, Leonard Rose. Loving stepmother of Carol Forma, Thomas For
 FRASER-Harvey. August 22, 2002. Precious son of Edith and Benjamin Fruchter. Beloved father of Larry, Deborah, Ben & Robyn, of blessed memory. Dear brother to Caryl, Billy and Barry. Grandpa to his darling Molly. Loved by nephews Eric, Brian and all who knew him. In lieu of flowers donation
 GOODMAN-Dr. Alan N. Passed away August 23, 2002, formerly of New York City. A practicing physician in Boca Raton, FL, for the past 31 years. Loving husband of Yoshiko, to whom he was married 34 years. Funeral services today, August 25, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL. For further information Gutter
 GUADAGNO-Anton. On August 16, 2002, in Vienna, Austria. Beloved husband of Dolores. Devoted father of Steven. Cherished brother of Vincenza Motisi and the late Dorotea Ciaravino. Dear uncle of Salvatore and Rocco Motisi and Rocco, Vito and John Ciaravino. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbe
 LEVITAN-Rabbi Kalman L., 85. Of Dayton, OH and Palm Beach Gardens, FL, on August 22nd, 2002 in Dayton. He is survived by his adoring wife, Carol, loving children, Robin Wenig, David Levitan and Daniel Levitan, devoted stepchildren, Ellen Katz and Tom Philips, and seven wonderful grandchildr
 MINKIN-David. On August 20, 2002, age 84. His memory will live forever in the hearts of his dearest wife Rose, beloved children Rhonda, Sandra, Glenn, and Darlene (dec.), eight grandchildren, sister, two brothers, family, and friends. WWII veteran; builder on Long Island; a true friend; res
 MYERSON-Allen R. Born and raised in New Rochelle, NY. He is survived by his beloved mother Natalie Myerson, sisters Jean MyersonKlipstein, and Dr. Merle Myerson, and his niece and nephews, Samantha, Lowell and Ethan. The Myerson family's memorial service for all our relatives, friends and A
 O'BRIEN - Kevin Michael. With sadness we announce the accidental passing of Michael, 37, on Monday, August 19. He will be deeply missed by his mother, Tiiu, his father, Denis; his sister, brother-inlaw and nephews, Jennifer, Dwight, Drew and Jayden; his brother, sister-in-law and niece, Con
 ROSENBERG - Dr. Louis. Longtime resident of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY passed away peacefully on the morning of July 5, 2002 at the age of 83 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. Born in Harlem, educated at City College, NYU, and the William Alanson White Institute, Lou was in private 
 ROTH-Herbert. 93, of Coconut Creek, FL, passed away on August 22, 2002. He is survived by his loving son: Kenneth (Rosalie) and grandchildren: Jordan and Karen. For information, contact Star of David Memorial Chapel and Gardens, Fort Lauderdale, FL.       
 RUBY-Nathan, M.D., 92. Of Lauderhill, FL. Formerly of The Woodlands in Tamarac passed away August 19, 2002. A much loved and respected Pediatrician practicing in Brooklyn, NY for over 40 years. He is survived by his loving wife Helen, and beloved daughters Joan (Arthur) Berkow, Alice (Oded)
 SELCH-Frederick Richard ''Eric''. At age 72. On August 22, 2002, at home. He is survied by his wife of forty-nine years, Patricia Bakwin Selch, three sons, Nicholas, of Lancaster, PA., Jason of Chicago, IL. and Gregory of NY. NY., a daughter Andrea Selch, Ph.D. of Hillsborough, N.C., eight 
 SILBER-Harry J. The Drisha community mourns the passing of Harry J. Silber, beloved father of our Founder and Dean, Rabbi David Silber. His life was dedicated to his family and to the welfare of the Jewish community in the United States and Israel. Our hearfelt condolences to his wife, Mart
 VARADY-Fredric ''Fritz''. On August 22nd, 2002 at the age of 94. Survived by deeply loved and devoted wife, Peggy. Enormously talented artist and illustrator who painted until the end. Fritz embodied old-world charm and elegance, yet his thinking and his work were thoroughly modern.       
 ZUCKER-Dr. Richard A. Of Wilton, Connecticut, died at 78 on August 18. He cared for generations of patients from 1954 until his retirement last March and was beloved for his kindness, skill, dedication, and humor. He is survived by his former wife Judy; their children John, Peter, Daniel, a
 Peter R. Hunt, a film director and editor who worked on several early James Bond films, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said Nicolas Kourtis, his son. Mr. Hunt worked an an editor on the first four James Bond films,
 Hoyt Wilhelm, the first reliever elected to the Hall of Fame, the last man to throw a no-hitter against the Yankees and a pitcher of almost unequaled longevity in the major leagues, died Friday in Sarasota, Fla. His wife, Peggy, told The Associated Press that the cause of death was 
 ASHLEY-Ted. Born August 3, 1922, died Saturday, August 24. He started his long entertainment career at age 15, as an office boy at the William Morris Agency. He was the founder of the Ashley Famous Agency and later became the Chairman of the Board and CEO of Warner Brothers, returning to Ne
 BRIDGES-James E. Of NYC, August 24. Beloved husband of Dolores ''Asensio.'' Brother of Sir Phillip and John Bridges of England. Also survived by many nephews and nieces. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory to the charity of your choice.       
 JACOBSON-Marjorie. The law firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson offers its deepest condolences to our esteemed of counsel Leslie A. Jacobson on the loss of his beloved wife, Marjorie. We extend our sympathy as well to their daughter and son and their families on their great loss
 O'BRIEN - William J. Of Southborough, died August 24, at home. He was the beloved husband of 39 years of Catherine ''Kay'' (Kelaher) O'Brien of Southborough; devoted father of Kathleen O. Pagano and her husband Joseph of Worcester; William V. O'Brien and his wife Laura of Brookline; Christo
 OCKENE-Alan L. Former President and CEO of General Tire Inc, passed away on August 20, 2002. He was 71, and a resident of Akron, OH.       
 PILEVSKY - Fred Efraim Heshel. On August 25, 2002. Deeply beloved and devoted husband, father, brother, uncle, grandfather, greatgrandfather and friend. A Holocaust survivor living in New York since 1949, Efraim Heshel was hard working and gentle. He was strong yet compassionate, always thi
 Ted Ashley, whose tenure as the chairman of Warner Brothers saw the release of films as diverse as the goofy ''Blazing Saddles'' and the gritty ''Dog Day Afternoon,'' died on Saturday at the New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 80 and lived in New York. The funeral home said he die
 STEVEN BANKS, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who represents the homeless, sits at the large kitchen table with his wife, a housing court judge whose hair is still damp from the shower. His 11-year-old daughter is slurping up Lucky Charms cereal, while his 14-year-old son, arms folded, is making
 ABRAHAM-Alexander. 83, on August 25, 2002, at his home in Rye, NY. Magna Cum Laude, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Harvard College 1940, former president of Abraham & Co. Inc., former vice chairman of Lehman Brothers Inc., ex-president of the 92nd St. YMHA, archeologist, philanthropist, and lov
 ASHLEY-Ted. Born August 3, 1922, died Saturday, August 24. He started his long entertainment career at age 15, as an office boy at the William Morris Agency. He was the founder of the Ashley Famous Agency and later became the Chairman of the Board and CEO of Warner Brothers, returning to Ne
 AUSTRIAN-Nick. Died far too young at 39. A beloved friend of Pauline, Alis and Jennifer. Devoted ''uncle'' to Max and Sam, and loving ''brother'' of John. We, the Alexanders and all of his NY friends including Vince, Marc and Ian, will miss him sorely.       
 BERNSTEIN-Elliot. Of Stamford, CT, died Monday, August 26, 2002. Producer for CBS News ''Sunday Morning''; former Executive Producer ''CBS Morning News''; Producer for ''60 Minutes.'' Bernstein began his 46 year career in journalism at UPI, worked at ABC News, then came to CBS News in 1979.
 BIRKNER-Irwin. Of NYC, died of cancer on August 25th, 2002. Beloved son of Dorothy and Daniel, brother of Melvin (all deceased). He is survived by cousins, close family members and many friends. Irwin will be remembered for his love of life, joyful spirit, kindness and compassion. Services 
 EILENBERG - Noel Arthur. August 25, 2002. Devoted brother of Larry, uncle to David and Ben, friend of Marge Marcus. He loved his family and the Yankees. His struggle with long illness was balanced by good humor and good will. Private ceremony. Donations to a charity of your choice.       
 FARMAN-Hans. The board and staff of the Josef and Anni Albers Foundation mourn the death of Hans Farman on August 25th at age 93 at his home in Old Greenwich, CT. The brother of Anni Albers, he played a vital role in making possible the growth of the Albers Foundation through his determined
 FUNK-George H. 65, of Towanda RR1, PA, died August 24, 2002 in Towanda, PA. Born April 17, 1937 in Abington, PA, he was a graduate of Lehigh University with a degree in chemistry and chemical engineering. He was employed at E.I. Dupont in Towanda for 38 years until his retirement on January
 KONECKY-Nathan ''Nate''. Information technology pioneer. Long time resident of Collingswood, NJ and for the last three years Moorestown, NJ passed away August 26, 2002 after a battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 59 years old. Although Mr. Konecky was raised in New York City, he relocated 
 MANNINO - Gaetano (aka Guy Manning), 69, son of the late Phil Mannino and the late Julia (nee Noto) died Saturday evening of a heart attack at home in New York City with his wife Angela (nee Van Heest) by his side. Guy is also survived by his sister Jean Asimakis and three nephews, Peter As
 PILEVSKY - Fred Efraim Heshel. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a highly respected community leader, and extends condolences to his wife, Paula, his children, Philip (and Renee), a member of the Yeshiva College Board of Directors, Allen (and Shoshanna), and Sheila
 SILVERMAN-Irving. 90, died August 25, 2002. Preceeded in death by his wife Ruth, sons Ira and Hy. Survived by his loving companion, Betty Friedlander; daughter Elizabeth (Pat) Hart; daughterin-law Jane Silverman; sister Yetta Ferdinand; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Graves
 TESSER-Abraham. At 86, on August 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Toby (Turkel). Devoted father of Gary Charles and Steven Barry, Ph.D. Dear brother of Florence Tesser and Ruth Leventhal. Cherished uncle of many loving nieces and nephews. Mr. Tesser graduated City College after earning his CPA.
 WAINWRIGHT-Rev. Robert M. of Centerville, MA. Husband of Nancy (Crabtree). A Memorial Service will be held in Rochester at a later date. Memorials in his name may be made to St. Paul's Episcopal Church Memorial Fund, Rochester, NY 14607       
 William Warfield, the bass-baritone whose repertory included everything from theater works to Handel oratorios but who was best known for his portrayals of Porgy in Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess,'' died on Sunday in Chicago. He was 82 and lived in Chicago. The cause was complications 
 Alexander Abraham, a retired investment banker and a philanthropist who sponsored low-cost housing for the homeless, died on Sunday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Abraham was chairman of his family's investment firm, Abraham & Compan
 Fred Darrington, who was to British sand castles what Sir Christopher Wren was to London churches, died Aug. 16 in his home in Esher, Surrey. He was 91. For nearly 70 summers, Mr. Darrington delighted visitors to the beach at Weymouth, a resort town on the southern coast, with magni
 John S. Wilson, the first critic to write regularly about jazz and popular music in The New York Times, died yesterday at a nursing home in Princeton, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Princeton. Mr. Wilson contributed to The Times for four decades and was a widely heard jazz radio host. 
 ABRAHAM-Alexander. 83, on August 25, 2002, at his home in Rye, NY. Magna Cum Laude, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Harvard College 1940, former president of Abraham & Co. Inc., former vice chairman of Lehman Brothers Inc., ex-president of the 92nd St. YMHA, archeologist, philanthropist, and lov
 ANGER-Per. 1913-2002. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum deeply mourns the passing of Per Anger. As second secretary at the Swedish legation in Budapest during World War II, Anger participated in efforts to rescue Hungarian Jews from arrest and deportation. As a key associate he wo
 ASHLEY-Ted. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Ted Ashley. A dear friend and thoughtful leader, Mr. Ashley served us as an esteemed member of the Board of Directors from 1981-1995, and as Director Emeritus since 1995. A true friend of the perf
 BRYER-Dr. Ben. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted, long-time member, Dr. Ben Bryer. Ben and his beloved wife, the late Elsa Kastor Bryer, had been members of Rodeph Sholom for over 50 years. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his son, Elliot, and all their dear ones
 DiDOMENICO-Anthony J., 88, of Pleasantville NY on August 26. Born in NYC, the youngest of six children of Maria and Vincenzo DiDomenico, immigrants from Sicily. Loving husband of Gilda, devoted father of Mary Ann Mazzella of Pleasantville NY and Lucille DiDomenico of Dallas TX. Loving fathe
 GORDEN-Roger, Sr., died August 21, 2002. Loving father of Roger, Jr., Howard and Denise Gorden. Grandfather to Mary and Thomas Gorden. Former Foreign Exchange Broker for Tullett & Tokyo Forex Brokers. Former husband of June Gorden (nee White). He resided in Dingman's Ferry, PA. In lieu of f
 GUADAGNO-Anton. Absolutely shocked and saddened at the news of the passing of my dear friend Anton Guadagno. My heart and prayers go out to you, Dolores, and your family for this great loss. My relationship with ''the Maestro'' goes far beyond our opera association. He was a great gentleman
 KELLER-Gerald H. Died August 27 after a courageous battle with cancer. A devoted and caring husband of 48 years to Barbara, an understanding and supportive father to Judy and Robert, and a proud and loving grandfather to Samantha, Katie and Kendall. His strong presense and adventuresome spi
 LOUGHRAN-John B. Of Bronxville and Big Indian, NY on August 26, 2002. Born August 27, 1916. Son of John T. Loughran (former Chief Judge, New York Court of Appeals) and Cornelia (Brodhead) of Kingston, NY. Survived by his wife Sara Ann Cruickshank Loughran, his sons John and Robert, his daug
 MARSHALL-Jeanne B. On August 26, 2002. Age 77. Retired kindergarten teacher at P.S. 17 in Queens. Wife of the late Jack Zaretsky and the late Joseph Marshall. Survived by two sons, Jon and his wife Estelle, and Tom and his wife Kathy Keneally, two grandchildren, Michael, and Scott and his w
 ROSNER-Elsie Lincoln. August 6 in Manhattan, age 89. Journalist for Time, 1939, medical reporter MD 1957-78, news editor 1969-78, Medical World News 1979-84, Physicians' Weekly 1984-2001. Born Philadelphia. BA (1933) MS (entomology) University of Pennsylvania. Working with Dr. Philip Calver
 SHER-Norman, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center was saddened to learn of the death of Dr. Norman Sher. Dr. Sher was a Psychiatrist associated with Maimonides Medical Center for over 35 years. He was Director of the Psychiatric Residency Training Program from 1974 through 19
 TESSER-Abraham. At 86, on August 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Toby (Turkel). Devoted father of Gary Charles and Steven Barry, Ph.D. Dear brother of Florence Tesser and Ruth Leventhal. Cherished uncle of many loving nieces and nephews. Mr. Tesser graduated City College after earning his CPA.
 Frederick R. Selch, a broadcasting and advertising executive and magazine publisher who owned one of the largest private collections of antique American musical instruments, died on Aug. 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Selch
 ABRAHAM-Alexander ''Sandy''. The Board and Staff of Yorkville Common Pantry acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved husband of our dear friend and loyal supporter Helene. Our deepest sympathy goes to his family, especially Nancy and James for their losses this year. Your par
 AIDEKMAN-Benjamin. The Officers, Trustees and members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their long-time friend and member, Benjamin Aidekman. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Paul M. Weltz, President Burton J. Esrig, Secretary       
 AUSTIN-Stephen G. The attorneys and staff of Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. mourn the passing of our colleague, Stephen G. Austin, on August 26, after a brief illness. Steve's deep knowledge of the law and his enthusiasm for the practice of law were an inspiration to many of us. Prior to joini
 BRYER-Ben F., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Pres. William G. Stein, M.D., V.P.. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secy
 FLANCBAUM - Hyman (Chaim ben Schmuel). Born in Wachock, Poland, June 20, 1923, died August 27, 2002. A survivor of Nazi tyranny, he escaped from a German concentration camp in June 1944 and lived underground in the woods for more than 6 months. After liberation, he lived in the displaced pe
 GREENIDGE-Judge Lloyd S. Formerly of White Plains, NY, on August 27, 2002. Retired administrative law judge for the National Labor Relations Board, Washington, D.C. His beloved wife Irene Greenidge, stepchildren Gail Stark, Dale Austin, Craig Austin, James Austin, Maria Torres-Fisher, Sandr
 HAMPTON-Willard Gardinier, age 95, died on May 20, 2002. He was born in Amsterdam, New York. He graduated from Union College in 1927 as an Electrical Engineer and was employed by the New York Telephone Company, where he became Executive Vice President and Director. He retired after 40 years
 HILL III-Lucien (Tony), of Huntington, NY, on August 27, 2002. Devoted son of Marianne D. Hill and the late Lucien Hill. Loving partner of Marie F. Wemyss. Dear brother of John H. Hill. Lucien is survived also by his sister-in-law Renee A. Richards and his nephew James Lucien Hill. Lucien w
 KELLER-Gerald H. Died August 27 after a courageous battle with cancer. A devoted and caring husband of 48 years to Barbara, an understanding and supportive father to Judy and Robert, and a proud and loving grandfather to Samantha, Katie and Kendall. His strong presence and adventuresome spi
 SOLOW-George J. On August 27. Loving husband of Ethel. Wonderful father of Peter, Matty, and the late Tommy. Cherished father-inlaw of Patty. Best grandfather of Michael Russell, Jessica and Rebecca. Brother of Toby Gotthelf. Service Thursday, 1:15PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th and Amsterdam
 STACHELBERG-Peter B. In West Palm Beach, FL age 73 on August 24. Survived by his wife Ann of 47 years, daughter Holly Haynsworth, three grandchildren, two nieces and one nephew. Services were held in West Palm Beach. Memorial contributions may be made to the Mental Health Association of Pal
 TESSER-Abraham. At 86, on August 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Toby (Turkel). Devoted father of Gary Charles and Steven Barry, Ph.D. Dear brother of Florence Tesser and Ruth Leventhal. Cherished uncle of many loving nieces and nephews. Mr. Tesser graduated City College after earning his CPA.
 Per Anger, a Swedish diplomat who with Raoul Wallenberg saved tens of thousands of Hungarian Jews from deportation to Nazi death camps, died on Sunday in Stockholm. He was 88. After the war Mr. Anger, who later became Sweden's ambassador to Australia and Canada, worked to discover t
 Bill Wassmuth, a former Roman Catholic priest who waged a vigorous battle against white supremacist hate groups in northern Idaho, died on Tuesday at his home in Ellensburg, Wash. He was 61. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said Er
 KELLER-Gerald. The Board of Directors and staff for 16 Sutton Place mourn the passing of Gerald Keller. A dear friend and thoughtful leader, Mr. Keller served as an esteemed President of the Board of Directors from 1995 to 2001. Mr. Keller was a kind, warm and hard working gentleman who gen
 KIERSH-Murray. On August 28, 2002. Beloved husband of Betty. Devoted father of Warren and Steve, and loving grandfather of Laura, Sandy, David, Sarah and Mark. Veteran of WWII and founder of Salisbury Sales Corp. He will be remembered and missed by all of those who loved him. Service today,
 MARGOLIES-Jacques. The New York Philharmonic notes with grief and sadness the death, on August 29, of Jacques Margolies, 85, a deeply valued member of the Philharmonic's violin section. Mr. Margolies, who received a Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York scholarship at age 13, originally
 REDFIELD - Walter. The Board of Directors, staff, members and participants of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children/New York City extend their deepest sympathy to Douglas and Susan Redfield upon the passing of their father, Walter Redfield. Walter has been a member of AHRC/NYC a
 SCHLECHTER-Herbert D. on August 29. Beloved husband of Selma Schlechter. Loving father of Bruce, his wife Susan, Kenneth and his wife Marcia Schlechter. Devoted stepfather of Ellin Ruffner, her husband David, John Kramon and his wife Jan. Cherished grandfather of Annie, Aaron, Alan, Benjami
 SELCH-Frederick. The Allen-Stevenson School mourns the passing of former trustee member, Frederick Selch, who served on the board from 1975-1988. We express our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to his wife, Patricia; children, Gregory '81, Jason '75, and Nicholas '72, Andrea and the entir
 TESSER-Abraham. At 86, on August 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Toby (Turkel). Devoted father of Gary Charles and Steven Barry, Ph.D. Dear brother of Florence Tesser and Ruth Leventhal. Cherished uncle of many loving nieces and nephews. Mr. Tesser graduated City College after earning his CPA.
 Richard Lippold, a sculptor known for radiant, expansive abstractions in metal, died on Aug. 22 at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Lattingtown, N.Y. Mr. Lippold's works, in which webs of wires in polished gold and silver hues were punctuated by geometric forms, wer
 Charles M. Lichenstein, who as America's No. 2 envoy at the United Nations 20 years ago offered to wave ''a fond farewell'' to the world body if its members chose to leave the United States, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 75. The Heritage Foundation, a conservative research 
 Dr. Janusz Bardach, a plastic surgeon who improved techniques for treating cleft lip and cleft palate and who wrote an acclaimed account of his life in Soviet labor camps in the early 1940's, died on Aug. 16 in Iowa City, his home. He was 83. Dr. Bardach, a native of Ukraine who tra
 The Rev. Dr. Edwin Louis Cole, whose experience with an abusive father inspired him to build a worldwide Christian ministry that demanded sexual and social responsibility from men, died on Tuesday in Grapevine, Tex. He was 79 and lived in nearby Southlake. The cause was bone-marrow 
 MORTILLARO-Louis F. August 28, 2002. Veteran of World War II, retired Sargent Major. Served his country until 1985 from Fort Hamilton Base. He loved his country and served it well. He loved his family even more. Beloved husband to Anne, beloved father and father-inlaw to Lois, Gerard, Franc
 TESSER-Abraham. At 86, on August 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Toby (Turkel). Devoted father of Gary Charles and Steven Barry, Ph.D. Dear brother of Florence Tesser and Ruth Leventhal. Cherished uncle of many loving nieces and nephews. Mr. Tesser graduated City College after earning his CPA.
