 Donald Clayton Spencer, a pioneer of American mathematics who inspired a generation of younger mathematicians, died in Durango, Colo., on Dec. 23. He was 89. Together with his friend and collaborator Kunihiko Kodaira, he invented the modern theory of deformation of complex structure
 BOWRING-Douglas Bonner, Esq. Of Edgartown, Massachusetts and Atlanta, Georgia died December 30, 2001. He was born on Staten Island, New York on August 10, 1919 the son of Charles Warren Bowring & Amy Bonner Bowring. A graduate of St. George's School, Newport, Rhode Island, Princeton Univers
 FISCH-David. Temple Beth-El of Long Beach mourns the loss of their president David Fisch. Our condolences to his dear wife Merle, children and grandchildren Rabbi Menachem Mendel Hecht Sidney Smith, Chairman of Bd Dr. Leo Schechter, Vice-Chairman       
 GAUCI-John. The Coordinating Council of Cooperatives mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague in cooperation, John Gauci. A member of the cooperative hall of fame, John was an inspiration, a passionate advocate and organizer of cooperatives fostering economic democracy and social
 HOLLOWAY-Edward, Jr. The Browning School notes with sadness the death of Edward Holloway, Jr., former Secretary of the Board of Trustees and Trustee from 1984 to 1996. We remember his commitment, wisdom and generosity. He was the father of Quint, '94 (deceased). Our thoughts are with his wi
 NAGLE-William G. Of Scarsdale, NY, died on Dec. 30, 2001. Mr. Nagle was a retired Senior Vice President of Citibank. His wife Mary Jane Lowe predeceased him. He is survived by 1 daughter Barbara N. Muench; three sons, William G., Jr., Donald L. and James L.; one brother Alexander C. & 7 gra
 ROISTACHER-Herbert D. Died Sunday, December 30, 2001, at age 84 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Nancy and Wayne Merkelson and Kenneth and Shelley Roistacher. Cherished grandfather of Randy and Jeremy Merkelson & Andrew and Daniel Roistacher. Dear brother-in-
 WEXLER-Frank. Of Franklin Square, NY and Pompano Beach, FL. Age 89, December 30, 2001. Much beloved husband of Toby for 65 wonderful years. Devoted father/father-in-law of Stephen and Vicky Wexler and Amy and Robert Heller. Proud grandfather of David and Pamela Heller, Peter, Ronnie, Jennif
 WINTERBERG-S. Jay. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our past President, Sam Winterberg, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 Ralph Sutton, a jazz pianist whose hard-driving but sometimes gently lyrical style was suggested by the title of one of his albums, ''Last of the Whorehouse Piano Players,'' died on Sunday in Denver. He was 79. Thomas Burns, a friend, said that Mr. Sutton, who lived in Bailey, Colo.
 Walter N. Read, a lawyer and former chairman of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, died on Dec. 22 at his home in Cinnaminson, N.J. He was 83. A native of Camden, Mr. Read graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1939 and from Pennsylvania Law School in 1941. He serve
 AFTAB-Nasser T. Sr, 79. Of Montvale, NJ, died December 31, 2001. He is survived by his wife Linda (nee Croucher) Aftab and his sisters Malley and Pouran. Beloved father of Marc, Sherine, Jahan (Jay), Dana, Nasser Jr, Blake, and Tyler. Cherished grandfather of Eva, Lydia, Alyssa, Chloe, Sara
 BARRETT-John J. Jr. Of Amityville on January 1, 2002. Beloved husband of Elizabeth (nee Donovan) and the late Patricia E. (nee Schum). Father of ten children & grandfather of 22 grandchildren. Also survived by his sister Jean Colligan. Vigil Prayers 1:30, 4:30 and 8:30 PM Thursday, January 
 BYERS-Paul. December 31, 2001. Survived by his wife Lucy Schneider, son Peter Byers of Seattle, Washington, granddaughter Jessica Byers of Arlee, Montana, and former wife Happie Byers of Seattle. An anthropologist who taught at Teachers College, Columbia University, he continued his researc
 DEITCH-Joseph. On December 29 at age 84. A public relations executive and journalist, survived by his wife Edna of Leonia, NJ; sons Robert and Edward; daughter-inlaw Carla; grandsons Wylie and Will, and brother Nathan. Funeral service on Thursday, January 3, 11:30 AM at Wien & Wien, 402 Par
 FEDERBUSH-Elsa Salkay, 94. On Jan. 1, 2002, a her home in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Max W. Cherished mother of Alexander and his wife Marjorie and Charles and his wife Denyse. Adored grandmother of Maxwell, Benjamin and Zachary. Loving sister of Renee Beck. You will forever b
 GAUCI-John. The NORC Supportive Services Center Inc., mourns the death of our special friend and advisor. His strength and wisdom remains our inspiration. Our condolences to his family Pat, Michelle, John Jr. and the entire family. Nat Yalowitz, President David Smith, Chairman       
 GOLDBERG-Ben. 83, retired President of SEIU Local 3036 (The Taxi Drivers Union), died December 28, 2001, following a brief illness. He was the beloved husband of the late Leah Duhl Goldberg. Father of Lawrence Goldberg and Cindy Wapnitsky. Father-in-law to Bryn Johnson and Ken Wapnitsky. Gr
 GOLDMAN-Robert. The members of Congregation Ezrath Israel, The Actors' Temple, are saddened by the death of our longtime president, Robert Goldman, CPA, on December 31. A devoted member of the synagogue, Bob was noted for his insightfulness and good humor. We offer our heartfelt condolences
 GREENGRASS-Moe. On January 1, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Shirley Greengrass. Dear father of Barney and Gary, fatherin-law of Nancy and Sharon. Adored grandfather of Max and Natalie. Cherished brother of the late Mildred Harris. Services today January 2, 1:15 P.M. at ''The Riverside,'
 HETTENA-Ran. Died December 30th, 2001 of cancer at age 78 in New York City. President of Maritime Overseas Corporation, Director of Overseas Shipholding Group of New York. Former Chairman of GARD Insurance of Norway. Beloved husband of Shirley; devoted father of Avi and Seth; loving grandfa
 MOLLOY-Edward J. On December 28th, 2001, of Boca Raton, FL and NYC. Retired VP, Irving Trust/ BNY. Served in the Korean War on the USS Colahan. Beloved son of the late Edward Sr. & Margaret nee Kavanagh. Survived by his loving sister Mary. Visitation Thursday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at Krtil Funer
 NAGLE-William G. Of Scarsdale, NY, died on Dec. 30, 2001. Mr. Nagle was a retired Senior Vice President of Citibank. His wife Mary Jane Lowe predeceased him. He is survived by 1 daughter Barbara N. Muench; three sons, William G., Jr., Donald L. and James L.; one brother Alexander C. & 7 gra
 PERSKY-Lester, MD, 82. Passed away December 28, 2001 in Naples, FL. Dr. Persky was born in Cleveland, OH March 4, 1919 and graduated from Cleveland Heights High School. He subsequently attended The University of Michigan on a football scholarship, where his interest in medicine blossomed af
 ROHMER-Leonard. Died on Monday, December 30, 2001, after a valiant struggle. He retired after over twenty years as executive director of Westchester Jewish Community Services. He leaves behind his wife of 64 years, Mildred, two children, Judith, a teacher and Daniel, a physician and two gra
 WINTERBERG-Samuel Jay, 98. A Larchmont, NY resident for 59 years, died at his home on December 29, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Mary S. Winterberg, he is survived by his daughters Marla W. Frankel and Judie W. Cohen, four grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren. A civil engineer, he w
 Dr. Thomas A. Sebeok, a pioneer in the science of signs and symbols, noted for challenging the theory that apes and chimpanzees could learn language to communicate with humans, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 81. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Dr. Jea
 Eugene H. Nickerson, the first Democrat to serve as Nassau County executive and later the Federal District Court judge who presided over the Abner Louima police brutality cases, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. He died of complications from ulcer surge
 BASS-Steven R. On December 27, 2001, at age 48. Residential designer in Chicago and New York City. Loving son of Patricia and Fred Bass. Dear brother of Nancy Bass and cherished grandson of Esther Bass. Interment private. Memorial service at the Essex House, 160 Central Park South, Saturday
 BERGEN-Sidney. The members of Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague, Chairman of ACA Galleries, an ADAA member for nearly 40 years. Devoted to American art and artists, this veteran dealer was a true professional who had our respect and affection. Our sympa
 BLOOMROSEN - Sam. Temple Beth Torah mourns the loss of our beloved congregant Sam Bloomrosen on December 31. We extend our condolences to his wife Mildred and his sons Lee and Jay. May God comfort all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Michael Katz Leonard B. Austin, President       
 BRZOZOWSKI - Jan. December 30th, 2001. Beloved husband of Alina. Adored father of Sandy. Cherished brother of Hera and Sylvia. Devoted son of Heronima Lojko. A good friend to many, who will be deeply missed by all who knew & loved him. A man who loved life to the fullest. Friends may call a
 COLAIO-Mark Joseph, 34, Senior Managing Director and partner at Cantor Fitzgerald, died on September 11, 2001. He was the beloved husband and soul mate of June. Devoted father to Delaney Anne, age 3, and Joseph Ryan, age 2. He was the cherished son of Victor and Mary Christina. Loving broth
 DOWNES-Edward. The Board of Directors of Joy In Singing note with sadness the death of Edward Downes, longtime member and supporter. We join his many friends and admirers in mourning his loss. Fadlou Shehadi, President Dorene Marshall, Secretary Paul Sperry, Director       
 EVANS-John Arthur, MD. The faculty and staff of the Department of Radiology at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Weill Cornell Medical Center mourn the passing of Dr. John Arthur Evans, former Professor and Chairman of Radiology and Radiologist-in-Chief from 1952 until his retirement in 1976. 
 FEDERBUSH-Elsa Salkay, 94. On Jan. 1, 2002, at her home in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Max W. Cherished mother of Alexander and his wife Marjorie and Charles and his wife Denyse. Adored grandmother of Maxwell, Benjamin and Zachary. Loving sister of Renee Beck. You will forever 
 FRACKMAN-Richard B. On January 2, 2002, at age 78. After bravely battling many illnesses. He is survived by his beloved wife Noel. Loving father of Dru Pyne. Adored grandfather of Dylan. Dear brother of Robert J. Frackman. His was a life of service to his country, community and family. He w
 GOLDFARB-Leroy. Born in Brooklyn. Died at age 74 in New York City. Known in NYC for 40 years. Survived by his wife Jean, two nieces and one nephew. Funeral at the United Hebrew Community (UHC), 201 East Broadway, NYC, Thursday, 2PM.       
 GOSNELL-Thomas C. ''Tucker''. Husband of Silvia M. (Ortiz) Gosnell, devoted father of Philip Hale Gosnell, also survived by his parents Thomas Hale and Georgia (Potter) Gosnell of Rochester, NY, brother Arthur Gosnell of Bedford Hills, NY and sisters, Elizabeth Gosnell of NYC and Robin Trav
 HARDY-Paul. Art Director. On December 31, 2001 at age 56 in Kamas, Utah. He is survived by his wife, Louise, two sons Isaac and Seth and three daughters Sarah, Alison and Flora and one grandchild Paul Finian. He is mourned by many friends and professional colleagues who loved and respected 
 LEIBOWITZ-Glenn. The Congregation of Temple Beth El, Cedarhurst, records with sorrow the passing of its member. We express our sympathy to his family. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President       
 LIST-Robert E. Of Westfield, NJ on January 2, 2002. Dear husband of Elizabeth, loving father of Robert E. List II and Karen E. List; Dear brother of Thomas F. List, loving grandfather of five. Memorial service on Saturday, January 5 at 2 PM in the Westfield Presbyterian Church, 140 Mountain
 MASIUS-William S. Age 89, on December 23, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife Barbara, daughter Carol Zuckerman, son-in-law Stuart Zuckerman, and granddaughter Kate Zuckerman. Also survived by son John and grandchildren Hannah, Max and Sam of Los Angeles. Private services were held. Donation
 MOLLOY-Edward J. On December 28th, 2001, of Boca Raton, FL and NYC. Retired VP, Irving Trust/ BNY. Served in the Korean War on the USS Colahan. Beloved son of the late Edward Sr. & Margaret nee Kavanagh. Survived by his loving sister Mary. Visitation Thursday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at Krtil Funer
 NICKERSON-Eugene H. Of Roslyn, NY died Jan. 1, 2002. Survived by his wife, his four daughters, five grandchildren, and three brothers. Memorial service on Saturday 11:00 AM, Grace Church, 254 Hicks Street, Brooklyn, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to Cobble Hill 
 NUZZI-Theodore F. (''Ted''). Age 83 of Coram, formerly of Flushing on December 31, 2001. Retired Assistant Principal, Francis Lewis High School, Flushing. Beloved husband of Anna (nee Capodiferro). Devoted father of Laura (and Tom) O' Shaugh-Nessy, Peter, and David (and Denise). Cherished g
 SORMANI-Emil H., 80, of Yardley, PA, died Thursday, December 27, 2001 at his home. Born in Luzerne, Switzerland, Mr. Sormani had been a resident of Yardley for over 44 years, moving here from Jamaica, N.Y. Mr. Sormani retired in 1998 as president of E.H. Sormani Inc., textile importers in N
 STOHNER-George S., 85. Of the Whiting section of the Manchester Township, NJ. Died Tuesday, at Community Medical Center, Toms River, NJ. He was a self employed owner-operator of the Atlantic Service Station in Moorestown, NJ for 30 years. More recently a foreman in the Water Department for 
 Benjamin Welles, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times on three continents and the author of a painfully revealing biography of his father, Sumner Welles, a major foreign policy adviser to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 85. Mr. Well
 Casper Citron, a radio host who for 43 years broadcast interviews with the famous and powerful from the lobbies of Manhattan hotels, winning a reputation for erudition in no small measure because he actually read his guests' books, died in Manhattan on Tuesday at the age of 82. The 
 Harold Baumbach, a New York painter of dissonant color and irascible temperament whose career began before most Americans had ever heard of his friend Mark Rothko, died on Saturday in San Francisco, where he lived since the mid-1990's. He was 98. Mr. Baumbach, the son of an upholste
 Jan Kott, a Polish-American theater critic and expert on Shakespeare whose theories influenced some of the most innovative of modern theater directors, died on Dec. 22 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 87 and formerly lived in Stony Brook, N.Y. Mr. Kott was one of a handful of theater 
 AMSTER-Herbert, 68. Suddenly on January 2, 2002. Devoted husband of Arlene, beloved father of Ellen Zaintz (Glen), Karen Young (Ben), adored grandfather of Samantha and Alison. He will remain in our hearts forever.       
 BASS-Steven R. On December 27, 2001, at age 48. Residential designer in Chicago and New York City. Loving son of Patricia and Fred Bass. Dear brother of Nancy Bass and cherished grandson of Esther Bass. Interment private. Memorial service at the Essex House, 160 Central Park South, Saturday
 BRZOZOWSKI - Jan. December 30th, 2001. Beloved husband of Alina. Adored father of Sandy. Cherished brother of Hera and Sylvia. Devoted son of Heronima Lojko. A good friend to many, who will be deeply missed by all who knew & loved him. A man who loved life to the fullest. Friends may call a
 FASS-Robert J., M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, Director of Division of Infectious Diseases at the Ohio State University, died at the age of 62, on January 1, 2002, from lung cancer. His distinguished career in the field of Infectious Diseases was world renowned and his impact on the 
 FEDERBUSH-Elsa Salkay, 94. On Jan. 1, 2002, at her home in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Max W. Cherished mother of Alexander and his wife Marjorie and Charles and his wife Denyse. Adored grandmother of Maxwell, Benjamin and Zachary. Loving sister of Renee Beck. You will forever 
 FRACKMAN-Richard B. On January 2, 2002, at age 78. After bravely battling many illnesses. He is survived by his beloved wife Noel. Loving father of Dru Pyne. Adored grandfather of Dylan. Dear brother of Robert J. Frackman. His was a life of service to his country, community and family. He w
 GOSNELL-Thomas C. ''Tucker'' Gosnell. Beloved husband of Silvia M. (Ortiz) Gosnell, devoted father of Philip Hale Gosnell, also survived by his parents Thomas Hale and Georgia (Potter) Gosnell of Rochester, NY, brother Arthur Gosnell of Bedford Hills, NY and sisters, Elizabeth Gosnell of NY
 HARRIS-Wilford Linwood, Jr. Matrid Alleyne Harris mourns the loss of her husband, born April 20, 1932, in Harlem. Son of Kate and Linwood Harris, Sr. He is survived by two sons and four grandchildren. Wilford Jr. was a graduate of New York University, where he received his MPA. We shall mis
 KERBIS-George. Age 86, passed away on January 3. Predeceased by his beloved wife Sofia. Dear father of Joseph and Linda, Sally and Allen Neuhaus, Elliott and Sarah, Arnold and Robin. Loving grandfather & great-grandfather. Services are today 10:15 AM at ''Sinai Chapels,'' Fresh Meadows, New
 KIMMEL-Edward A. Died on Thursday, January 3, 2002. Born on April 2, 1911. Beloved husband of Lucille for over 67 years. Loving and caring father of Joan K. Eigen and the late Alan Kimmel, and father-in-law of Robert Eigen. Adoring grandfather of Wendy Haigney, David Eigen, Deborah Barth, J
 KRONENBERG-Jules. We will always remember his kindness, his bright smile and his graceful dancing. Dear Babe, Toni, Arthur, David, Nicky, Shelly, Arlene, Stephanie, Gary and Allyn, we share your sorrow. With love, Susan, Fred, Stephanie and Andrea       
 LUCHT-Allan P., 84. On January 1 in Greenwich, CT. Survived by his wife, Nancy Peck Lucht, their two sons, Stephen and Thomas, and by Lee, Philip and Marilyn. Memorial service 11 AM, Saturday, January 5, at First Presbyterian Church, Greenwich. Donations to Christopher Reeve Paralysis Found
 MASIUS-William S. Age 89, on December 23, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife Barbara, daughter Carol Zuckerman, son-in-law Stuart Zuckerman, and granddaughter Kate Zuckerman. Also survived by son John and grandchildren Hannah, Max and Sam of Los Angeles. Private services were held. Donation
 MC ADAMS-Walter J., Jr. died of heart failure on January 3, 2002 at the age of 83. Born on April 15, 1918, he attended Xavier High School and Fordham University. An active member of the New York Stock Exchange since 1947, he was the president of The Garvin Bantel Corporation, member of the 
 McFADDEN-Gladys. Plaza Jewish Community Chapel extends a sincere condolence to our esteemed colleague Michael J. McFadden on the loss of his mother. Andrew Fier, Executive Director       
 MICHALSON-Howard Alan. On January 3, 2002, at age 72. Respected securities broker with Lehman Brothers for 41 years and most recently with UBS PaineWebber and served as a U.S. Naval officer. Beloved husband of Lynn (Morris), loving father of Douglas Michalson and Beth Fiore. Dear brother of
 MUMMA-Harries Arthur, Jr. 86, of Sussex NJ, formerly of Bronxville and North Caldwell NJ, December 30. Surviving is his beloved wife of 55 years Elva J. Mumma, daughter E. Christine MummaBooth of Clifton, VA, sons Gregory H. Mumma of Lubbock, TX., and Hilary E. Mumma of New Milford NJ, thei
 NEARY-William J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of William J. Neary, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 NICKERSON-Eugene H. The Partners, Associates and Staff of the firm of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel express their profound sorrow at the death of Judge Eugene H. Nickerson. Judge Nickerson was a named Partner of the firm from 1970 until he was appointed to the federal bench in 1977. In hi
 ROHMER-Leo. The Three Arrows Cooperative Society mourns the death of Leo Rohmer, longtime active member. We remember with appreciation his contributions as Chairman of the Finance Committee and on the stage. Condolences to his wife, Millie, children, Judith and Daniel. Halona W. Balgley, Pr
 ROSENTHAL-Walter. With unspeakable sadness and pain we mourn the sudden passing of Walter Rosenthal, cherished husband of Trudy, beloved and revered father of Debbie and Michael Ross & Susan and Mark Sperber, respected and treasured opa of Aaron, Tzipora, Yoni, Tami, Rachel and Ariella Ross
 STOLNITZ-George J. Age 81 on December 18, 2001 in Bloomington, Indiana. He was an international expert on demographic trends, consultant to the United Nations, and a past president of the Population Association of America. Stolnitz graduated from the City College of NY and earned his PhD fr
 TARNOWER-Irving, 85. Formerly of Teaneck, NJ, died on January 2 in Newton, MA. He is survived by his best friend and beloved wife of 62 years, Helen; devoted children, Ann Baum and Howie Tarnower and his wife, Pam Swift; loving grandchildren, Jeff Baum, Alison Hook and her husband, Erik, Ho
 WILLIG-Herbert. The National Officers of EMUNAH of America expresses its heartfelt grief at the untimely passing of our long time benefactor Herbert Willig, beloved husband of our esteemed Honorary President Toby Willig. Herbert was a friend to EMUNAH both here and in Israel. He will be sor
 Alfred Henry Heineken, who built an Amsterdam brewer into one of the world's biggest beer companies, died on Thursday at his home in the Dutch coastal town of Noordwijk. He was 78 and died of pneumonia. Mr. Heineken, who was known as Freddy, created the green bottle that helped Hein
 Moe Greengrass, who became Manhattan's ''Sturgeon King'' when his father, Barney Greengrass, left him the family's Upper West Side shrine to smoked fish, chopped liver and a good joke, died on Jan. 1 in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Gary said.
 BEAUREGARD-Gilles. Sadly, Office & Professional Employees International Union AFL-CIO, CLC mourns the passing of its Secretary-Treasurer on January 3, 2002. Gilles dedicated over 40 years of his life to the members of OPEIU working to gain the benefits of collective bargaining for working p
 BERNSTEIN-Stanley, MD., 80. A New York psychiatrist died Thursday at the home of his daughter Barbara Marchionne in Massachusetts. He was recently widowed after 52 years of marriage to Charlotte Bernstein and was a devoted husband, father, grandfather and psychiatrist who will be deeply mis
 DOWNES-Edward O.D. The faculty, alumni and students of the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College express their sorrow over the passing of Edward O. D. Downes, a member of our faculty from 1966 to 1983. Musicologist, critic, ambassador for opera and the symphonic repertoire, he was
 ELLMAN-Sidney. On January 3, 2002. Forever loved by daughter Joyce, son Michael and his wife Sue Ann, grandchildren Jared, Courtney and Chelsea. Sidney was a devoted husband of the late Jeanette and a loving father and grandfather, who served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. His love, 
 FRACKMAN-Richard B. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and past President. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Noel and family. Corey B. Rabin, President Joyce Baumgarten, Secretary FRACKMAN-Ri
 GOLDSTEIN-Neal I. On January 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Elaine, loving father of Bonny. We will always love him. He was a very special man. Service on Sunday, 11:15AM, at the ''Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GRASING-Warren. On January 4, 2002, beloved husband of Willie. Loving father of Patricia Grasing Krasowski and husband Robert, and Nancy G. Rogers and husband Walter. Loving grandfather of Paul and Matthew Krasowski and Joseph, Paul, and Kelly Rogers. Dear brother of Jane Reeve and Hazel Ho
 GREENGRASS-Moe. January 1, 2002. Beloved father of Barney and Nancy, and Gary and Sharon. Grandfather of Max and Natalie. Contributions in his memory may be to The Jewish Center, 131 W. 86 St, NY NY 10024 or Ramaz School, 125 East 85 St, NY, NY 10028.       
 KEENAN-John C. Of Irvington, NY, on January 3, 2002. Survived by his wife Mary Jean (nee Taylor); children Druscilla Keenan, Edith Barker, John C. Keenan, Jr.; two grandchildren; and his brother Walter. Mass of the Resurrection on Monday, 10 AM, Church of the Immaculate Conception, Irvingto
 KIMMEL-Edward A. Died on Thursday, January 3, 2002. Born on April 2, 1911. Beloved husband of Lucille for over 67 years. Loving and caring father of Joan K. Eigen and the late Alan Kimmel, and father-in-law of Robert Eigen. Adoring grandfather of Wendy Haigney, David Eigen, Deborah Barth, J
 MICHALSON-Howard. The City Athletic Club mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Howard Michalson. Michael Todres, President MICHALSON-Howard Alan. On January 3, 2002, at age 72. Respected securities broker with Lehman Brothers for 41 years and most recently w
 NICKERSON-Eugene H. Hon. The Judges and Magistrate Judges of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York and the entire court community express our profound sadness at the loss of our friend and mentor. With compassion and intellect, he enriched and guided our effo
 PURGESS-Norma. On January 3, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Dear mother of Donald & his wife Linda. Cherished sister of Ida Anderson & the late Lillian Scalero & the late Herman Potter. Loving aunt of Beverly and Linda Potter, Patti Purgess and Ann Anderson. Services on Sunday, Ja
 ROSENSTOCK-Jerome, 77. Of Boca Raton, FL, died on the sea that he loved on January 3rd, 2002. He is the son of the late Louis and Anna Rosenstock of Ellenville, NY. He is survived by his adoring children, Karen and Linda, his two loving grandchildren, Jared and Jordana, his brothers and sis
 Al Smith, the Chicago White Sox outfielder who became the hapless subject in one of baseball's most famous photographs when a fan spilled a cup of beer on him as Smith watched a home run sail over his head in the 1959 World Series, died Thursday at a hospital in Hammond, Ind. He was 73.    
 AFFIAS-Irving M. Beloved husband of Helen Ann. Devoted father of Ken and Larry & fatherin-law of Laura. Cherished grandfather of Julia. He was an electronic engineer, president of Triton Electronics and Vice President of Sumi-e for 25 years.       
 BEAUREGARD-Gilles. Sadly, Office & Professional Employees International Union AFL-CIO, CLC mourns the passing of its Secretary-Treasurer on January 3, 2002. Gilles dedicated over 40 years of his life to the members of OPEIU working to gain the benefits of collective bargaining for working p
 BERNSTEIN-Stanley, MD., 80. A New York psychiatrist died Thursday at the home of his daughter Barbara Marchionne in Massachusetts. He was recently widowed after 52 years of marriage to Charlotte Bernstein and was a devoted husband, father, grandfather and psychiatrist who will be deeply mis
 de SEGONZAC-Adalbert. On December 27 at age 89. Washington correspondent of the French newspaper France - Soir, (1956-1976). Much decorated fighter pilot with Free French forces during WWII. Survived by his children: Lionel de Segonzac of Paris, Catherine Shainberg, Laurence Levin and Jean 
 FILA-Alec. December 31, 2001. Beloved husband of Joan. Loving father of Gregory, John, Christina, Alexa and Patricia. Cherished grandfather of ten and great grandfather of eight. Devoted brother of Charlotte. He was a noted lead trumpet player of the Big Band Era. Contributions in his memor
 GOLDSTEIN-Neal I. On January 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Elaine, loving father of Bonny. We will always love him. He was a very special man. Service on Sunday, 11:15AM, at the ''Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GROSSMAN-Alan Mark. On December 31, 2001. Of New Rochelle, N.Y. Beloved husband of Nanette. Devoted father of Andrew and Lori, Jim and Liz and Sue and Mitch. Adored by his grandchildren Stacy, Josh, Daniel and Paul. A native of Brooklyn, born March 26, 1931. Army veteran, CPA, an avid lover
 HETTENA-Ran. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Ran Hettena, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who was committed to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Through his involvement in the Recanati Foundation, Mr. Hettena was a great support
 KESSLER-Richard Hand. December 26, 2001, age 64 after a brief battle with cancer. Graduated from Millbrook School, NY, Princeton '59, Wake-Forest Law and NYU International Law. After serving in military intelligence, began the practice of law in WinstonSalem, NC. Served as corporate counsel
 KIMMEL-David. On January 5. Survived by nephews Eric, Jonathan, Richard and Arthur. Also survived by nieces Nancy Viola, Judy Leff, Joan Deutchman, Louise Rosenthal, and Diane Dalsimer. Brother-in-law of Lillian Kimmel. He was the husband of Florence and June who predeceased him; and father
 KIMMEL-Edward A. Died on Thursday, January 3, 2002. Born on April 2, 1911. Beloved husband of Lucille for over 67 years. Loving and caring father of Joan K. Eigen and the late Alan Kimmel, and father-in-law of Robert Eigen. Adoring grandfather of Wendy Haigney, David Eigen, Deborah Barth, J
 MASIUS-William S. Age 89, on December 23, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife Barbara, daughter Carol Zuckerman, son-in-law Stuart Zuckerman, and granddaughter Kate Zuckerman. Also survived by son John and grandchildren Hannah, Max and Sam of Los Angeles. Private services were held. Donation
 MICHALSON-Howard Alan. On January 3, 2002, at age 72. Respected securities broker with Lehman Brothers for 41 years and most recently with UBS PaineWebber and served as a U.S. Naval officer. Beloved husband of Lynn (Morris), loving father of Douglas Michalson and Beth Fiore. Dear brother of
 MILLER-J. Wade, Jr. Of New York City and Ogunquit, ME. Died December 13, 2001. Born in Pittsburgh, PA, he graduated from Washington and Jefferson College where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He went on to earn a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, graduating from the Sl
 MOSES-William A. Of New York City, January 3, 2002. With great sorrow we mourn the sudden passing of William, revered father of Andrew Moses, Cynthia MosesManocherian and Henry Moses, devoted friend of the mother of his children Hannah Kaufmann Moses, esteemed father-in-law and friend of Je
 MOSSBERG-David, DDS. Age 96 of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Mamaroneck, NY, died peacefully on Friday, January 4, 2002. Dr. Mossberg was the beloved husband of Rose (nee Greenstein) for 55 years and loving father of Edie Medoff of Larchmont, Lori Curtis and son-in-law Tom Curtis of Philadelp
 NICKERSON-Hon. Eugene H. The Brooklyn Law School community mourns the loss of Judge Eugene H. Nickerson, distinguished member of the law school's Board of Trustees, and beloved friend. His wise counsel will be greatly missed. We extend our condolences to his wife Marie-Louise, his daughters
 NIMITZ-Chester W., Rear Admiral, age 86, and his wife, Joan Labern Nimitz, age 89, of Needham and Wellfleet, MA, and formerly of Boca Grande, FL, by mutual consent on January 2, 2002 at their home in Needham. No memorial service is planned and a private burial will take place in Wellfleet, 
 ROSENSTOCK-Jerome, 77. Of Boca Raton, FL, died on the sea that he loved on January 3rd, 2002. He is the son of the late Louis and Anna Rosenstock of Ellenville, NY. He is survived by his adoring children, Karen and Linda, his two loving grandchildren, Jared and Jordana, his brothers and sis
 ROSNER-Fred. Beloved Fritz-a gentle beacon of kindness, a heart of infinite generosity, a surrogate uncle to we who gathered around him, a teacher, a mentor, a friend. Neither sorrow nor adversity could erase the twinkle from his eyes, and we will hold dear his boundless warmth forever. Che
 SLOAN-Samuel III, 82. A former member and Governor of the New York Stock Exchange, and former Vice President and Director of Hayden, Stone, Inc. died on December 16, 2001 at Jupiter, FL. During World War II, Mr. Sloan was an aircraft commander of a B-24 lead crew in Italy and served 35 miss
 STEVENS-Douglas K. 54, born and raised on Staten Island, passed away December 26 in Port St. Lucie, FL. Survived by his wife, Judith Gaddis Stevens, a daughter, Kelly Stevens of Piscataway, NJ, sons Christopher Murray, FDNY, of Staten Island, and Michael Murray of Hickam AFB in Hawaii, a si
 SUTTON-Ralph. The President, Trustees, Faculty and Students of Hamilton College extend their deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Ralph Sutton, who honored us by receiving an Honorary Degree in 2001. His talent and humanity inspired us all.       
 TINKEL-Leonard J. Died peacefully at home on December 31. Judy, his wife of 67 years, predeceased him; survived by his son Jack and daughter-in-law Kathleen. Engineer, NYC teacher, passionate skiier, enthusiastic breadmaker and leader of hikes and other adventures at Lake Dunmore, VT. A Mem
 WETZEL-Raymond A. Died November 21, 2001. Survived by his daughters, Barbara, Lois, Janine and Kathy, a sister, Barbara Wetzel. Please call 718-499-4494.       
 WOLZ-Carl. The Dance Notation Bureau mourns a dear friend, valued director and distinguished educator. We will miss his passion and leadership in preserving our international dance heritage. His life's work will carry on through DNB's Carl Wolz Fund. Ilene Fox, Executive Director Board of D
 Samuel Mockbee, an architect and teacher whose commitment to bringing high-quality building design to the most impoverished residents of rural Alabama inspired other architects, died on Dec. 30 in Jackson, Miss. He was 57 and lived in Canton, Miss. The cause was complications from l
 Emile Renan, a versatile bass-baritone who was the first performer seen when the curtain rose on the first opening night at the New York City Opera 48 years ago, died on Dec. 8 in Englewood, N.J. He was 88 and had moved to Englewood from the East Side of Manhattan in September. The 
 Ian Hamilton, a British poet, editor, critic and biographer whose unauthorized biography of J. D. Salinger was barred by the courts even as bound galleys were being sent to reviewers, died on Dec. 27 in London. He was 63. The cause was not disclosed, said a spokesman for Between the
 DAMELIN-Herbert. Of Boynton Beach, FL, and Boston, MA, passed away on December 29, 2001. Loving husband of Ruth. Beloved father of Michael (Nancy), Geoffrey, Caryn and Leon. Adoring and proud grandfather of Marc and Susan. Devoted stepfather of Lisa (Arthur) Bryant, Iris (Ken) Sokol and the
 GOLDSCHLAGER - William. Teacher, educational administrator, lawyer. On January 5, 2002, in Bryn Mawr, PA. Beloved husband of Edna (nee Cohen). Loving mother of Marcia Epstein (Paul) of Gladwyne, PA, and Seth Goldschlager (Isabelle) of Paris, France. Grandfather of Amy and Leonard Feldman, R
 KAHN-Hugo. Died January 4, 2002. Beloved husband of Margie. Loving father of Allen and Daniel and his wife Shira. Adored grandfather of Yael and Aliza. KAHN-Hugo. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its longtime distinguished member, beloved husband to Margie and father of Allen
 KIMMEL-Edward A. The owners, officers and employees of the Charles H. Greenthal Group mourn the passing of Edward A. Kimmel. Edward and his brothers, after WWII, became one of New York's premiere real estate families. He was more than just a client of our office. For nearly 50 years he was 
 LEVINE-Goldie. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the mother of our esteemed Executive Committee member, Daniel Levine, and extends to him and the family our heartfelt condolences.       
 MOSES-William A. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, William A. Moses. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bernhard,
 SCHEINER-William. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of our esteemed Trustee and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Shirley and the entire family.       
 SUMMER-Sol G. On Saturday, January 5, 2002, after a long illness courageously borne. Beloved husband of Anita, adored father of Joanne and Neil, and father-in-law of Mark and Erica. Devoted grandfather of Stuart, Lynn and Danielle. In our hearts and thoughts for all eternity. Prior to joini
 WILK-Julius. Attorney-at-law, age 93. Loving husband of 64 years to Adele. Adored father of Stephen and Irma and Sara and Saul Mercer. Devoted brother of Celia and Nathaniel Kalotkin. Cherished grandfather of Rona, Eric and Marcy, Jocelyn and Daniel. Loved by his many nieces and nephews. Se
 Paul Byers, an early practitioner of visual anthropology, which he pioneered with Margaret Mead, died on Dec. 31 at his home in the East Village, Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. A native of Pittsburg, Kan., he attended the University of Chic
 Dr. Roger L. Shapiro, a research psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who provided fresh insights into how the complex dynamics of family interactions might contribute to psychological illness, died in Washington on Dec. 3. He was 75. The cause was complications of hip surgery, said a col
 Rear Adm. Chester W. Nimitz Jr., a veteran of World War II and son of the World War II naval commander in the Pacific, died last Wednesday along with his wife, Joan, at their home in Needham, Mass. He was 86, and she 89. The couple committed suicide because of deteriorating health, 
 Fred Taylor, the Hall of Fame basketball coach at Ohio State whose teams won the N.C.A.A. championship in 1960 and reached the title game the following two seasons, died Sunday at a nursing home in Hilliard, Ohio. He was 77. He had been in failing health since a brain aneurysm in 19
 BALLAN-Erik. Born January 20, 1955 in New York, died on January 5, 2002 in McKinney, TX. A devoted and loving husband and father of two. He worked for Consultants Choice in Dallas. He was preceded in death by his father, Eli Ballan, his uncle, Leon Ballan, and his aunt, Ruthie Lindner. He i
 BLOCK-Rabbi Morris J. As we note with great sorrow the passing of Rabbi Morris J. Block, we pause and remember the remarkable accomplishments of this man of good deeds and great empathy who served the developmentally disabled children and adults of Brooklyn and their families for over forty
 BROMBERG-Stephen N. Died on January 4, 2002. He is survived by wife Judith, children Janice and Nora, son-in-law Francis, and grandchildren Emma, Harry, and Ben. Memorial services to be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 Amsterdam Ave, on Tuesday, January 8, at 11:30 AM. In lieu of flow
 CASSINI-Igor (Ghighi), 86. On Saturday, January 5, 2002. Son of Count Alexander and Countess Marguerite Loiewski Cassini, and grandson of Count Arthur Cassini, last Czarist Russian Ambassador to The U.S. under The Theodore Roosevelt and McKinley Administrations. Renowned journalist and writ
 DENERSTEIN-Hyman. Age 88. Of Valley Cottage, N.Y. on January 4, 2002 after a long illness. Son of the late Isidore Denerstein and Rose Borodkin. Survived by son Dan of New City, N.Y. and two grandsons Matthew & Evan. Predeceased by Rita, wife of 64 years. Hyman had a long career as a social
 GLYNN-Robert B. Of Manhattan, died on January 6, 2002, after a short illness. Born in 1929 in Passaic, NJ, he was graduated from Harvard College in 1951, and from Harvard Law School in 1956. He was a founding partner of Becker, Glynn, Melamed & Muffly LLP, and Chairman of the Lampadia Found
 GOLDSCHLAGER - William. Teacher, educational administrator, lawyer. On January 5, 2002, in Bryn Mawr, PA. Beloved husband of Edna (nee Cohen). Loving mother of Marcia Epstein (Paul) of Gladwyne, PA, and Seth Goldschlager (Isabelle) of Paris, France. Grandfather of Amy and Leonard Feldman, R
 GRAHAM-Irvin. Songwriter, died Dec. 1, 2001. Married to the late Lillian Graham for 30 years. Devoted brother of Cecile Abraham. Irvin had his first hit at 15 when he wrote ''You Better Go Now'' which Imogene Coca sang in ''New Faces.'' He wrote for the ''Show of Shows'' starring Coca and S
 MOSES-William A. Of New York City, January 3, 2002. With great sorrow we mourn his sudden passing. He leaves behind his son Henry Winston Moses from his first marriage to Joan Tiger Morse (deceased), his son Andrew Ferdinand Moses and daughter Cynthia M. Moses-Manocherian from his second wi
 MOSSBERG-Dr. David. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife Rose and to his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors, Paul Seidenberg, President      
 RODBELL-Sheldon, of Palm Beach, Fl passed away on January 7, after an extended illness. Beloved husband of Helen, loving father of Gerry and Ellen, fatherin-law of Hank Alpert and Dr. Alain Roizen, cherished grandfather of David, Brooke, Erica, and Remy. Survived by his brother Arthur. Serv
 SMITH-Laurence. We mourn the death of our member, and send heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Dr. Richard Storm, President       
 STEINHAUSER-Bert. The Art Directors Club mourns the loss of its esteemed Hall of Fame member, one of advertising's greats. He was a blazing, prolific talent, masterful communicator and illuminating photographer, a passionate man who put everything he had into everything he created. 
 SUMMER-Sol G. The Law Firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP mourns the loss of our friend and colleague Sol Summer. His professional dedication, knowledge of New York's courts, and his cheerfulness, camaraderie and willingness to help others were truly remarkable. He will be grea
 SUMPTION-James D. Of Bronxville, NY, and Vero Beach, FL, age 62, passed away on January 6, 2002. The beloved husband of Julie, loving father of Scott and brother of R. Stephen Sumption was born in Philadelphia, PA, the elder son of Horace Y. and Emily A. Sumption of West Chester, PA. He rec
 TICHNOR-Alan J. The United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the passing of Alan J. Tichnor, International President of the United Synagogue from 1989 to 1993 and longtime leader of the USCJ, New England Region. The driving force behind creative religious and educational programs, he
 WOLZ-Carl. The trustees and staff of the Asian Cultural Council are deeply saddened to lose a great friend of Asian-American partnership in dance and a dedicated mentor to dancers, scholars and educators throughout the U.S. and Asia. His unbounded generosity and wise counsel are sorely miss
 YOUNG-Frank W. The Stecher and Horowitz Foundation extends deepest sympathy to Robert S. Young, dedicated Chairman of the Board, upon the loss of his beloved father. Heartfelt condolences to the entire Young family.       
 Dr. Aleksandr M. Prokhorov, who shared a Nobel Prize in Physics for research that led to the development of lasers, died yesterday at his apartment in Moscow, Russian news agencies reported. He was 85. In the 1950's, Dr. Prokhorov and Dr. Nikolai G. Basov, physicists at the P. N. Le
 Dave Thomas, an orphan who went to work in restaurants at 12 and by dint of hard work, quality control and shrewd marketing made Wendy's the third-largest hamburger chain in the world, died yesterday. He was 69 and was known to millions as the folksy character who made a low-key personal pi
 The art collector and philanthropist Gustav Rau, who amassed one of the world's major private art collections, died in Stuttgart last Thursday. He was 79. He died suddenly in a hospital, his Zurich lawyer, Dietrich Stettler, said. He had been recovering from pneumonia contracted a f
 Igor Cassini, who as Cholly Knickerbocker was king of society gossip for the Hearst newspaper chain in the 1940's and 50's, then lost his job after he pleaded no contest to a charge that he represented the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo but without telling the government about it, died 
 BICKOFF-George. On January 4, 2002. Loving husband of Norma. Beloved uncle. He will be very much missed. Services were held Sunday, at ''The Riverside''.       
 BLEETSTEIN-Leonard. On January 7, 2002 after a long, valiant battle. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving father of Barbara Barrocas and Gary Bleetstein. Devoted father-in-law of Neil Barrocas and Marilee Bleetstein. Adoring and proud grandfather of Danielle, Rachel, Alix, Stacia and Michelle an
 CASSINI-Igor (Ghighi), 86. On Saturday, January 5, 2002. Son of Count Alexander and Countess Marguerite Loiewski Cassini, and grandson of Count Arthur Cassini, last Czarist Russian Ambassador to The U.S. under The Theodore Roosevelt and McKinley Administrations. Renowned journalist and writ
 DOUGLASS-Frances Behan. On behalf of the entire downtown community, we extend our deepest sympathies to our esteemed leader and Chairman, Robert Douglass, on the death of his mother. We extend our condolences to the entire Douglass family. Carl Weisbrod, President Alliance for Downtown New 
 FAIR-William R., M.D. The staff and leadership of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, William R. Fair, M.D., a noted urologic surgeon and former Chief of the Urology Service. Bill devoted his professional career to advancing the treatment of 
 GLASER-David. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Associate Board and League of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation deeply mourn the passing of our beloved former President and CEO, David Glaser. We will remain forever grateful for his visionary leadership from 1980 
 GLYNN-Robert B. The members of Becker, Glynn, Melamed & Muffly LLP mourn the passing of Robert B. Glynn, one of the firm's founding partners. His wit, friendship, counsel, generosity of spirit and personal loyalty will always be remembered. Words cannot express how much we will all miss him
 GOLDEN-Joseph Francis, Jr., of Teaneck NJ, died in his home on January 7, 2002. Born in 1932 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Joseph Francis Golden, Sr. and Mary Gara Golden, he graduated from Penn Charter School in 1949 and from Princeton University in 1953, where he won the Ivy League bat
 HOCHMAN-Rubin, 95. Predeceased by beloved wife Sophie. Loving father of Phyllis and Murray Shapiro and Tina Schnall. Adored grandfather and greatgrandfather. He was a gentle man whose spirit and wit will be sorely missed.       
 LEVINE-Arthur. The United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the passing of Arthur Levine, International President of the United Synagogue from 1973-77. A respected leader of the Conservative Movement, he worked tirelessly to build solid relationships and guide the organization throug
 MALETZ-Sr. Judge Herbert N. The Chief Judge, the Colleagues and the Staff of the U.S. Court of International Trade express their deepest sorrow at the passing of a distinguished member of the Court, the esteemed and beloved Herbert N. Maletz, and extend their heartfelt condolences to the be
 MARKS-Jerome. The Scarsdale Synagogue - Tremont Temple mourns the loss of its longtime member, and extends deepest sympathy to his wife Linda and the entire family. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Andrew J. Goodman, President       
 NICOL-Robert John. Of Bonner Peak Ranch, La Porte and Fort Collins died at home suddenly on Sunday, January 6th. He was a resident of Colorado since January 1996. The family will receive friends who wish to pay respects at the Reager Funeral Home, 1530 Riverside Ave., Ft. Collins on Wednesd
 RODBELL-Sheldon, of Palm Beach, Fl passed away on January 7, after an extended illness. Beloved husband of Helen, loving father of Gerry and Ellen, fatherin-law of Hank Alpert and Dr. Alain Roizen, cherished grandfather of David, Brooke, Erica, and Remy. Survived by his brother Arthur. Serv
 SUMMER-Sol G. A man who made this world a much nicer place to live in. He enriched our lives with his friendship. His smile was warm sunshine; his heart, pure gold. Our sympathies go out to his beloved Anita and his family. He leaves such a void in all our lives. May he rest in peace. Barba
 TEJANI-Amir H., M.D. Of Ossining, NY, on Jan. 7, 2002. Beloved companion & husband of Nergesh Tejani, M.D., loving and adored father of Rushna Heneghan, Cena Tejani, and Sharyn Tejani, and devoted playmate & Bapa of Ellis, Cody, and Sierra Heneghan, Tehmina Pechefsky, and Kiran Devine. Big,
 WERBIN-Myron. We are very saddened by the news that the father of our dear partner, Barry Werbin, has passed away. Our spirits are brightened, however, in the knowledge that he lived a long and fruitful life, enjoyed Barry's eternal love and devotion and that he leaves a loving daughter-in-
 Gyorgy Kepes, an influential designer, photographer, painter, educator, writer and aesthetic theorist, died on Dec. 29 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95. Mr. Kepes was best known as the founder of the Center for Advanced Visual Studies, an organization at the Massachusetts I
 ARONSON-Jonathan E. Of Rockville Centre, NY, died in Albany on January 8th, of a stroke following a car accident. Devoted husband to his departed wife, Iris S. Beloved father of Ralph S. Dear brother of David M. Will be dearly missed by his family and friends. Funeral services at ''Boulevar
 CARROLL-Louis (Lou the Magnificent-Magician), 91. On January 8, 2002 he passed away. Lou was born in New Haven, CT and resided in NYC and Woodmont, CT. He had a distinguished career as a physical therapist and later at ABC News, helping to keep the news running during WWII. He was a well kn
 CONFER-Phillip H., 83. Of Doylestown, PA, died January 7, 2002. Former camp director at Forest Lake Camp, Warrensburg, NY. Surviving are his wife, Mabel ''Sally'' Confer; son, Gary, & daughter, Nancy. Services to be at the convenience of the family.       
 CROHN-Richard J., 82. of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, died January 9, 2002. Born in 1919, he was a lifelong activist for social justice and a noted direct-mail fund raising consultant and publisher. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Balaban, his brother Ted, his daughters, Carla Friedman and Amy
 DOYLE-Michael Patrick, Sr, 66. Died suddenly on January 7, 2002. He was born in the Bronx, New York on November 24th, 1935. Devoted father of Tara Anne Doyle of Greenwich, CT & Michael Patrick, Jr. of NYC. Former husband of Patricia McCabe Doyle. Visiting Thursday, Fox Funeral Home, Larchmo
 EDEN-Robert Earl. Of New York City. Died on January 5, 2002. For 40 years, beloved husband of Susan Hendrickson Eden. Loving son of Judith Eden Nelson, Sun City, AZ; cherished brother of William J. Eden, St. Paul, MN; and a perpetual source of mirth and merriment to an extended family of tr
 FOGEL-Edward. The American Conference of Cantors records with deep sorrow the untimely passing of Cantor Edward Fogel, President of the Conference from 1989 through 1991. We will miss his beautiful voice, his sense of humor and his warm spirit. The Conference sends it deepest condolences to
 GELOBTER-Martin. Beloved husband of the late Gertrude. Loving father of Steven and Lewis. Adored father-in-law of Lidia. Fond father-in-law of Ellen. Cherished grandfather of Evan, Dylan and Giselle. Devoted brother of Jane Boss. Dear brother-in-law of Joyce and Dick Greenwald. Caring uncle
 GERKEN-Edward H., Esq. On January 5, 2002 at home. Survived by loving wife Susan, son Ryan and sister Anne. His wit, friendship, counsel and generosity of spirit will be greatly missed.       
 GLASER-David. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of David Glaser. As president & CEO of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation from 1980-1999, David's vision and leadership were instrumental in strengthening the in
 GLYNN-Robert B., The editors and staff of Commentary mourn the death of their stalwart and much loved friend, and will ever miss his erudite, magnanimous, merthful spirit. Our hearts go out to Savannah and his family. Neal Kozodoy, Editor Norman Podhoretz, Editor-at-Large       
 GOLDEN-Joseph Francis, Jr., of Teaneck NJ, died in his home on January 7, 2002. Born in 1932 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Joseph Francis Golden, Sr. and Mary Gara Golden, he graduated from Penn Charter School in 1949 and from Princeton University in 1953, where he won the Ivy League bat
 LANE-John Patrick. Of Ardsley, NY, Jan. 9 following a long illness. Raised in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, Jack was the loving husband of Ellen, devoted father and fatherin-law Sean & Elizabeth, Mariellen and Peter, Neil and Kathleen, adoring grandfather of Brendan, Caroline, Kevin, Isabel, Daniel,
 LEVINE-Arthur J. Loved and mourned by his wife Rosalind, his daughters Nancy, Susan & Ketzel, his grandchildren, his sister Marilyn and family. A principled man of constancy & commitment to the causes he believed in and the people he loved. We are particularly proud of his advocacy on behal
 McCUTCHEON-Bill W., 77. A resident of Mahwah for 42 years, on January 9, 2002. Beloved husband of Anne (Routsong) McCutcheon. Loving father of Carol Crevani of Mahwah, NJ, Jay McCutcheon of Baltimore, MD., and Kenna McCutcheon Colley of Blacksburg, VA. Adored grandfather of 5 grandchildren.
 NEDERLANDER-Harry Jay. The oldest of five brothers who run a theater empire that stretches from London to Los Angeles, died of cancer January 6, 2002 at his home in Rancho Mirage, California. He was 84. A Detroit native he also has a residence in Bloomfield Hills, MI. He was a Veteran of th
 RODBELL-Sheldon, of Palm Beach, Fl passed away on January 7, after an extended illness. Beloved husband of Helen, loving father of Gerry and Ellen, fatherin-law of Hank Alpert and Dr. Alain Roizen, cherished grandfather of David, Brooke, Erica, and Remy. Survived by his brother Arthur. Serv
 SHEA-Tom. Died yesterday morning after a valiant struggle with cancer. Throughout his illness he maintained the same zest and zeal that characterized his life-he lived abundantly. A member of the New York and New Jersey Bar Associations, Tom worked in transportation law and taught courses i
 TESE-Raymond. Age 89. Beloved husband of Lucille Madonia Tese, Tuesday, January 8 after a six month battle with cancer. He faced death, as he faced life, with great courage. The fourth of six children, Raymond was born in New York on September 10, 1912. His father, Salvatore, emigrated to t
 TICHNOR-Alan J. The JTS Community mourns the death of Alan J. Tichnor, a philanthropist committed to Jewish causes and Conservative synagogue's worldwide. His love of Judaism, his lifelong dedication to the Conservative movement and his position as an honorary member on the JTS Board of Tru
 WEBER-Harold N., 98. Of Northlake Drive, Orange City, FL, died Wednesday in the John Knox Medical Center, Orange City, FL. Born in Albany, New York, he was the son of the late Adna F. and the late Mabel Norris Weber. He was a graduate of Amherst College, Amherst, MA., and a member of AARP. 
 ZIMMY-Sidney J. Of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Patty and Jeffrey Schneider, Jane Zimmy and Ron Neumann. Adored Poppy to Nikki and Jamie Schneider. Graveside service at Mount Lebanon Cemetery, Iselin, N.J. Friday, 11AM. Contributions in his memory may be made t
 Al LoBalbo, who in 11 seasons as a head coach made Fairleigh Dickinson University's basketball team a national leader on defense and as an assistant coach helped teach defense for Bobby Knight at Army and Lou Carnesecca at St. John's, died of pneumonia Saturday at a convalescent home in Mou
 Juan Garca Esquivel, a composer and arranger whose meticulously outlandish pop instrumentals from the 1950's and 60's sparked a lounge-music revival in the 90's, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Jiutepec, Morelos, Mexico. He was 83. Mr. Esquivel wrote television and movie scores, but
 Moe Foner, who played a major role in building New York City's largest union of health care workers and later was the labor movement's unofficial cultural impresario, staging art shows, plays and concerts, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. Mr. Foner was the longtim
 ADAM-Capt. Yaacov Kubek (1922 -2002). On Monday, January 7, peacefully at Roosevelt Hospital following a brief illness. Capt. Adam was a Master Mariner, intrepid sailor and decorated war veteran. He was born in Busk, Poland, and was a young immigrant to Palestine where he joined the Haganah
 ANTIN-Harold, 81. Of New York City and Petersburgh, NY, died peacefully at home on January 8, 2002. Born in 1920, he graduated from Townes & Harris and City College of New York. Possessing a quick wit and the ability to speak and write extemporaneously, he found his way by becoming a wellkn
 COHN-Kenneth W. Born July 7, 1952, passed away suddenly on January 2, 2002. Beloved husband of Penny (Lacey). Devoted father of Tyler James and Connor Alexander. Dear son of Anne Gray Cohn. Loving brother of Lewis Z. Cohn. Also beloved uncle of eleven nieces and nephews. He had a successful
 EISENBERG-Stanford. American Friends of The Hebrew University mourns the passing of Stanford Eisenberg, member of the National Council of Trustees. With his wife, Helen, who served as President of the South Palm Beach County Chapter, the Eisenbergs generously provided support for programs o
 FONER-Moe, 86. Died in his sleep on January 10, 2002. He was a loving husband to Anne, father to Nancy and Peggy, and grandfather to Alexis. He spent his long life devoted to social justice. He developed creative projects promoting peace, workers' welfare, and racial harmony. Moe was loved 
 GLYNN-Robert B., The editors and staff of Commentary mourn the death of their stalwart and much loved friend, and will ever miss his erudite, magnanimous, mirthful spirit. Our hearts go out to Savannah and his family. Neal Kozodoy, Editor Norman Podhoretz, Editor-at-Large       
 LANE-John Patrick. Of Ardsley, NY, Jan. 9 following a long illness. Raised in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, Jack was the loving husband of Ellen, devoted father and fatherin-law to Sean & Elizabeth, Mariellen and Peter, Neil and Kathleen, adoring grandfather of Brendan, Caroline, Kevin, Isabel, Dani
 NOBLE-Marshall Hays, 78 years old. Of Pawcatuck, CT, died of cancer January 8, 2002, at Lawrence & Memorial Hospital in New London, CT. He was the beloved husband of Carolie Woods Noble and devoted stepfather of five Hollingsworth chldren. He was a graduate of Culver Military Academy and Pr
 PARR-Alfred Andrew, 99. Died peacefully at his home in Cairo, NY on Wednesday, January 9th, 2002. Born in Richmond Hill, Queens, he left school at 15 to work in the New York offices of US Steel. He then became a steelworker in the mill at Pittsburgh. Returning to New York, he began working 
 PEARSON-Arthur S. Of Westport, Ct., died on December 20, 2001. A Memorial Service will be held in his honor on January 20th, at 2PM at the Unitarian Church in Westport, 10 Lyons Plains Road.       
 SHEA-Tom. Died yesterday morning after a valiant struggle with cancer. Throughout his illness he maintained the same zest and zeal that characterized his life-he lived abundantly. A member of the New York and New Jersey Bar Associations, Tom worked in transportation law and taught courses i
 WERBIN-Myron. My loving father died January 8, 2002 at age 92. Adored by his grandchildren, Gregory and Kyra, loved by his daughter-in-law Lisa. World War II vet, 307 Bomb Wing. Your lightness of spirit, selflessness and laughter will be in our hearts forever. Your son, Barry       
 ZIESS-Fred. The offices and staff of Maunter-Glick mourns the loss of our dear friend, our deepest heartfelt condolences to his brother Alan and sister-in-law Wendy and their family.       
 IN MEMORIAM Edward Gerken -1946 -2002 For over a quarter of a century, he served the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation with vision and valor. He organized and created the first HHC professional corporation for physicians' services, an innovation that has both grown in value and
 Wallace Gray, a professor emeritus of English and comparative literature and a favorite teacher for generations of Columbia College students, died on Dec. 21 in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Morningside Heights. He had a heart attack and died on the way to the hospital, the univ
 Walter H. Waggoner, a reporter, correspondent and editor at The New York Times for 41 years, died Wednesday in Chapel Hill, N.C. A former resident of Montclair, N.J., he was 84 and lived in Pittsboro, N.C. The cause was complications from a fall and surgery, his family said.        
 Carl Wolz, a teacher, scholar and dance festival organizer who sought to promote cooperation between Asian and Western dance communities, died on Jan. 2. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his brother, Lee Wolz. Although Mr. Wolz studied and taught 
 John W. Reynolds, the senior federal district judge in Wisconsin who oversaw the racial integration of the Milwaukee public schools in the 1970's, died on Sunday in a hospital in Milwaukee. He was 80 and lived in suburban Mequon. The cause was complications from heart disease, the c
 ADAM-Capt. Yaacov Kubek (1922 -2002). On Monday, January 7, peacefully at Roosevelt Hospital following a brief illness. Capt. Adam was a Master Mariner, intrepid sailor and decorated war veteran. He was born in Busk, Poland, and was a young immigrant to Palestine where he joined the Haganah
 COHN-Kenneth W. Born July 7, 1952, passed away suddenly on January 2, 2002. Beloved husband of Penny (Lacey). Devoted father of Tyler James and Connor Alexander. Dear son of Anne Gray Cohn. Loving brother of Lewis Z. Cohn. Also beloved uncle of eleven nieces and nephews. He had a successful
 EISENBERG-Stanford E. Of Boca Raton, FL. and Hackensack, N.J., on January 9, 2002, after a 2-1/2 year illness. Beloved husband of Helen. Father of Ann Friedlander and Amy (deceased). Father-inlaw of Stephen R. Friedlander. Mr. Eisenberg graduated from Rutgers University. He served in the U.
 FONER-Moe, 86. Died in his sleep on January 10, 2002. He was a loving husband to Anne, father to Nancy and Peggy, and grandfather to Alexis. He spent his long life devoted to social justice. He developed creative projects promoting peace, workers' welfare, and racial harmony. Moe was loved 
 KIERCE-Gerald, 75 of Naples passed away Tuesday, January 8, 2002. Born July 28, 1926 in Lowell, MA. He was the son of the late Walter F. Kierce and Mae Winifred Flannery. He attended Keith Academy with Xaverian Brothers and graduated with the class of 1943 with honors of Salutatorian. Geral
 TAPLINGER-Jean R., 89. Beloved husband of the late Marjorie. A renaissance man: linguist, artist, thespian, singer, inventor, mechanical engineer, son of a newspaper man. Assistant Commissioner, Boy Scouts of America. Survived by his beloved daughter Sandra Sobel, son Lee R. Taplinger, gran
 ZIESS-Fred. On January 10, 2002. Beloved brother of Alan. Dear brother-in-law of Wendy. Loving uncle of Jason. Fred enriched our lives with his wisdom, generosity, kindness and love. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. Service Sunday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street an
 Cyrus R. Vance, who after two decades in public service was appointed secretary of state, and who then took the rare step of resigning from the nation's highest cabinet post on a matter of principle, died yesterday afternoon at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. He was 84. The 
 Dr. William R. Fair, a leading cancer surgeon whose experience as a cancer patient led him to become an advocate for the scientific study of complementary medicine, died on Jan. 3 in Sarasota, Fla. He was 66. The cause was complications from colon cancer, his family said. He lived i
 Pablo Antonio Cuadra, a leading poet and political voice of Nicaragua who for much of the 20th century was one of Central America's most important literary figures, died in Managua on Jan. 2. He was 89. Mr. Cuadra was known principally as a poet, but he was also an essayist, critic,
 BERKOWITZ-Beatrice. On behalf of the Board and staff of the Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst we extend our deepest sympathies to our esteemed president, David P. Berkowitz, on the death of his beloved mother. Our thoughts and prayers are with you and Nancy, your dad, Bernard and your c
 BRENNER-Richard W., MD. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Richard Brenner. A distinguished vascular, thoracic, and pediatric surgeon, he also was an outstanding educator who taught surgical residents at P&S for many years. We exten
 COHEN-Murray. Died January 9, 2002, 91, Hallendale, FL. Beloved husband of Florence. Father of Arnold L. and Barbara, Howard & the late Linda, George and Ellen. Grandfather to David and Michele Cohen, Richard Cohen, Shari and Scott Silverman, Lisa and Bobby Miltner. Great-grandfather to Jac
 CONNOLLY-Gerard A. On January 11, 2002, of Red Bank, NJ., formerly of Garden City, NY. Pre-deceased by his first wife Margaret. Beloved husband of Maureen. Loving father and stepfather of Eileen Giaquinto, Patricia Quain, Gail Connolly, Gerard A. Jr., Margaret Gannon, Mary Flynn, Maureen Di
 DUGAN-Vincent T. Died in Tacoma, WA, January 8, 2002. Former NYC resident. Survived by wife Anne; children Brian T., NYC, Mary Quistorff, China, and Brendan J. Dugan, Tacoma, WA; seven grandchildren; three great-grandchildren. He is also survived by two nieces and two nephews. Funeral Mass 
 EISENBERG-Stanford E. Of Boca Raton, FL. and Hackensack, N.J., on January 9, 2002, after a 2-1/2 year illness. Beloved husband of Helen. Father of Ann Friedlander and Amy (deceased). Father-inlaw of Stephen R. Friedlander. Mr. Eisenberg graduated from Rutgers University. He served in the U.
 GOLDEN-Joseph F., Jr. To a man who has helped us throughout our business careers, he will be greatly missed. Our condolences to his family. Norman Fass Michael Fass       
 GOLDSTEIN-Melvin S. 82, died at home in New York on January 11, 2002. International Director of State of Israel Bonds 1961-1995; Administrative Vice Chairman of the National United Jewish Appeal 1951-1961; Assistant Secretary General of the Joint Distribution Committee in Europe 1941-1951. 
 LUDDEN-Franklin M., Ph.D., January 11, 2002. Survived by his devoted wife, Gultekin. ChairmanEmeritus of OSU Art History Dept. Army historian of the US Third Army in Battle of the Bulge. He will be deeply missed by all who were fortunate to know him.       
 MOSES-William A. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of William A. Moses, beloved father of Cynthia Moses Manocherian and father-inlaw of Jeffrey Manocherian, two cherished friends of UJA-Federation who are deeply devoted to helping th
 NICOL-Robert John. Of Bonner Peak Ranch, La Porte and Fort Collins died at home suddenly on Sunday, January 6th. He was a resident of Colorado since January 1996. The family will receive friends who wish to pay respects at the Reager Funeral Home, 1530 Riverside Ave., Ft. Collins on Wednesd
 REINEMAN-Fred M. Husband to his most devoted wife Alice. Brother to the late John Otto and sister Annie Suse. Dear brother-inlaw to Hertha Reinemann. Most devoted to cousins and friends, here and abroad. Passed away peacefully. Remembrance Tuesday, January 15, at 3 PM, Frank E. Campbell, 10
 RENNICK-Dan. 96, Wayside, NJ, died January 9. Editor-in-chief Drug Topics, American Druggist; VP of Hearst Corporation; graduated from NYU. An artist in retirement, his work is in museums and private collections. Predeceased by his first wife Betty; survived by beloved wife Cecil, son Rober
 SCHULDENFREI-Paul. Husband for fifty years of the late Jean. Father of Richard and Diane. Grandfather of Noah, Sarah and Miriam. He was devoted to his family and to the betterment of humanity through social action.       
 SELIGMAN-Joseph L., Jr. Died January 8, 2002 in Stinson Beach, CA, age 88, from complications of pneumonia. He was born in NYC November 26, 1913. He went to grammar school at St. Bernard's and high school at Taft School in Watertown, CT; graduated from MIT in 1934 majoring in General Scienc
 SLUCHAN - Seymour. Known professionally as Sy Slater, passed away on January 12, after a valiant struggle with cancer. Born in the Bronx, Sy was a lifelong New Yorker. He attended Stuyvesant H.S. and City College, and was a transportation specialist for over forty-five years, most recently 
 STEFANOU-Peter A. 72, of Bedminster, New Jersey, formerly of Brooklyn, New York, (having moved in 2000 to be closer to his four grandchildren) on Friday, January 11, 2002. He is survived by his wife Alice (nee Foudos), his daughters Lisa and her loving husband Dean Bennett and Lainie and he
 SWANSON-Robert Sinclair Jr. Of Naples, FL, and South Burlington, VT, died in Naples on January 10, 2002. He was born in New York City to Robert and Louise Swanson on April 27, 1925. He was graduated from the Stony Brook School and Babson College. He served in the 10th Mountain Division of t
 TAPLINGER-Jean R., 89. Beloved husband of the late Marjorie. A renaissance man: linguist, artist, thespian, singer, inventor, mechanical engineer, son of a newspaper man. Assistant Commissioner, Boy Scouts of America. Survived by his beloved daughter Sandra Sobel, son Lee R. Taplinger, gran
 ZIESS-Fred. On January 10, 2002. Beloved brother of Alan. Dear brother-in-law of Wendy. Loving uncle of Jason. Fred enriched our lives with his wisdom, generosity, kindness and love. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. Service Sunday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street an
 ZURKOW-Jerome S., Esq. Died December 24, 2001 in NJ at the age of 85. Brilliant lawyer, loving and devoted husband and father, and spirited adventurer. He is survived by his devoted and loving wife, Bibi, and daughter, Marina.       
 DRACHMAN-Roy P. The International Council of Shopping Centers, its trustees, staff, and 40,000 members worldwide mourn the passing of our beloved founding member, past Chairman 1960-1963, Member of the Board of the ICSC Educational Foundation, and industry pioneer. Innovator in a wide range
 Bruce Bliven Jr., a prolific writer of popular books and magazine articles on subjects as diverse as military campaigns and the history of the typewriter, died on Jan. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. Mr. Bliven, who wrote for The New Yorker for many years, put the story in wh
 Dr. Burton I. Edelson, a leader in satellite communications who helped start and oversee some of NASA's most popular science programs, died Jan. 6 in New York, where he was visiting family and friends. He was 75 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack, said his so
 Charles Segal, a Harvard classi cist who brought a modern literary  critic's approach to the study of  Greek and Latin poetry, died on Jan.  1 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65. The cause was cancer, the univer sity said. In a scholarly career spanning al most four decades, Prof
 Cyrus R. Vance, who after two decades in public service was appointed secretary of state, and who then took the rare step of resigning from the nation's highest cabinet post on a matter of principle, died Saturday afternoon at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. He was 84. The c
 Donald W. Johnston, a composer and arranger who scored a number of Broadway musicals, died Jan. 7 at a hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 57 and lived in Maplewood, N.J. The cause was cancer, said David E. LeVine, his lawyer. Mr. Johnston arranged the dance music for the origin
 AUBRY-Richard W. Jr. Father of Stephanie and Tim, ex-husband and lifetime friend of Debbie, golfer, Vietnam veteran, advertising executive, amateur political analyst and comedian, dreamer, died age 59, on January 8, 2002. Contributions in his memory may be made to the American Cancer Societ
 GELLES-John. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi       
 JINDA-George. The Legend of Jazz, of New York City, passed away on January 11, 2002. He is survived by his loving wife Nivia. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Saturday, January 19, at St. Anthony's Church in Nanuet, NY. Interment will be private at the convenience of the family. Visiti
 REINEMAN-Fred M. We mourn the passing of our beloved cousin and dear friend. He was admired and respected by all who knew him. Remembrance Tuesday January 15, at 3pm Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Yvonne and Leslie Pollack and Family Marguerite and Richard Strauss and Fami
 SCHREIBER-Robert. The Board of Directors of United Jewish Federation of Greater Stamford, New Canaan and Darien, expresses its profound sorrow to the family of Robert Schreiber. Bob served as our second president and continued his dedication to Israel, the Jewish people and our community th
 SILVER-Julius. Died on January 13, 2002, at the age of 101. Devoted and loving husband of the late Roslyn Schiff Silver and father of the late Enid Silver Winslow. Funeral services Monday, 2 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. SILVER-Julius. The NYU community mou
 SLUCHAN - Seymour. Known professionally as Sy Slater, passed away on January 12, after a valiant struggle with cancer. Born in the Bronx, Sy was a lifelong New Yorker. He attended Stuyvesant H.S. and City College, and was a transportation specialist for over forty-five years, most recently 
 Van der Kemp-Gerald. The Board of Directors and the Advisory Committee of The Versailles Foundation, Inc., Claude MonetGiverny, mourn the passing of Gerald Van der Kemp, after a long illness on December 28, 2001, in Paris, at the age of 89. Mr. Van der Kemp was curator of Versailles for man
 Wang Ruoshui, one of China's most important liberal intellectuals -- who started his career as a disciple of Mao and ended it officially shunned by China's ruling Communist Party -- died Thursday in a hospital in Boston. He was 75. He died of lung cancer, the family said. He was spe
 Gerald Van der Kemp, the French art expert who masterminded the restoration of Louis XIV's palace at Versailles and saved the ''Mona Lisa'' from destruction by the Nazis, died Dec. 28 in Paris. He was 89. In the 35 years that he was in charge of Versailles, Mr. Van der Kemp devoted 
 Henry S. Reuss, for 28 years a leading liberal in Congress on issues from interest rates to pollution to Watergate to aid for New York City, died on Saturday in San Rafael, Calif. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Michael Reuss. Though brought 
 BATTISTONI-Richard P. ''Chic''. On Jan. 14, 2002. Loving husband of Meryl and adoring father of Julianna. Beloved son of Vincent and Alma. Cherished brother of Ann & brother-in-law, Dave Becker. Dear son-in-law of Eugene and Rosanne Schaffer. Longtime friend and business partner of Kathleen
 BIERMAN-Jordan B. On Jan. 13, 2002 at age 73 after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Beloved husband of Ellen, caring father of Daniel and his wife Alice, devoted stepfather of Karen Aibel and Jeffrey Aibel and wife Kathryn, doting Poppa of Aaron Bierman and Sydney Aibel, brother of Ju
 COHEN-David. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our member, David Cohen. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Clara and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 DOBROW-Stephen. The Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority mourns the untimely passing of our esteemed charter member and friend, Stephen Dobrow. His wit, intelligence and encyclopaedic knowledge of our transit system will be sorely missed. James 
 EBERHARD-Leslie, 50. Died of complications from cancer, in Los Angeles, California on Saturday. He was a noted TV and theatrical writer. He wrote for many Saturday morning TV series, including Saved By The Bell, USA High and Malibu, CA. With collaborator David Levy, he wrote many theatrical
 FRIEL-James, 48. Your passing leaves an unbearable pain. All my love to you in heaven. Forever your twin brother Bob FRIEL-James. The New York County District Attorney's Office notes with profound sadness the sudden death of former Assistant District Attorney James Friel. Jim was a 
 GARLOCK-John ''Ted''. Of Hartsdale, NY on Sunday January 13, 2002, age 80. Beloved husband of Leila Goldstein Garlock. Loving father to his daughters Susan, Linda, and Nancy. Cherished grandfather of Jill, David, Hannah, Rachel and John. Memorial service Tuesday January 15, 1:30PM at the Ba
 GOLDSTEIN-Irving. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre, mourns the loss of its esteemed member Irving Goldstein and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Joy and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President GOLDSTEIN-Melvin S. The Officers and Staff of State of
 GOLDSTINE-Rabbi Melvin L. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. After ordination, he served Anshe Emet Synagogue and was founding rabbi to Congregation B'Nai Emunah, both in the Chicago area. In 1968, he became founding rabbi of Temple Aliyah in Woodland Hills,
 JOSEPH-Don. Age 71, of Wayne, NJ; formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, on January 14, 2002. Survived by his wife Jayne; children Victor and his wife Laurie; Andrew and his wife Enid; Joseph and his wife Lori and Gillian; sister Willie Weiss and two grandchildren. Services are today, 12:30PM at Robert
 KAHN-Hugo. It is with deep sorrow that we report the death of Hugo Kahn, beloved husband of Margie; devoted father of Alan and Danny (Shira), and proud grandfather of Yael and Aliza. Hugo was a founder and benefactor of Youth Centers of Israel Inc., which was very important in streamlining 
 LITTAUER-Rudolf M. Of Poughquag, N.Y. and Sarasota, FL. Born Oct 29, 1905, died January 8, 2002 at his winter home in Sarasota. Beloved husband of 63 years of Hilde (nee Apt) and father of Andrew and of Sibyl Weil (deceased). His family and many friends will miss him and cherish his memory.
 PSATY-Martin M., 84. Of Forest Hills, New York & Sunny Isles, FL. With unspeakable grief we mourn his loss. Beloved husband of the late Claire (nee Ringelheim). Devoted father & father-in-law of Beverly and Barry Pomerantz, Alan and Sarah Psaty & Madelyn & Michael Schatten. Adored grandfath
 SCHREIBER-Robert J. The Jewish Community Endowment Foundation expresses its sincerest condolences to Naomi Schreiber and the family of Robert Schreiber. Bob helped to create our Foundation, served as a member of our Board, the Chair of our Publicity Committee and the Co-Chair of our Legacy 
 SILVER-Julius. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Julius Silver. Known for his generosity and devotion to the New York Jewish community, Julius contributed to UJA-Federation through the Jurodin Fund. He will be missed by the entire
 TANAKA-Ikko. The Art Directors Club mourns the loss of its esteemed member and Hall of Fame Laureate, dean of Japanese graphic designers and one of the world's greats. His design genius was matched by an enormous generosity of spirit.       
 Van der Kemp-Gerald. The Board of Directors and the Advisory Committee of The Versailles Foundation, Inc., Claude MonetGiverny, mourn the passing of Gerald Van der Kemp, after a long illness on December 28, 2001, in Paris, at the age of 89. Mr. Van der Kemp was curator of Versailles for man
 VANCE-Cyrus R. Devoted husband of Grace Sloane Vance. Beloved father of Elsie, Amy, Grace, Camilla and Cyrus. Proud grandfather of Simon and Clare Vance and Kemal Askar. Honored father-in-law of Peggy Vance, Brigadier General (ret.) William Holmes and Atilla Askar. Died on Saturday, January
 WEISBART-Irving. In Woodbridge, Connecticut on January 13, 2002, Irving Weisbart, formerly of New York and West Palm Beach, died at age 95. He was predeceased by Ethel, his beloved wife of 56 years and is survived by his loving children Bertrand and Martha, of Orange, Connecticut & Martin a
 ZIMMERMAN-Leonard N. On January 13, 2002. Knowledgeable of world affairs, concerned for people everywhere, a teacher, a scientist, & a wonderful storyteller, he found immense joy in family, the garden, music, & conversation. He would want us to ''celebrate life,'' and to ''do the right thin
 ULLMANN-Eric. Died ten years ago. An exceptional human being. Missed by all who loved him. Lil       
 Dr. D. Eugene Strandness Jr., a surgeon whose research brought about significant advances in noninvasive vascular medicine, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Bellevue, Wash. He was 73. The cause was pulmonary failure, according to the University of Washington, where he was chief of the 
 APPEL-Robert. Died on January 10. Of Fairlawn, NJ. Predeceased by his wife Helen, he is survived by his son James (Diane).       
 BATTISTONI-Richard P. ''Chic''. On Jan. 14, 2002. Loving husband of Meryl and adoring father of Julianna. Beloved son of Vincent and Alma. Cherished brother of Ann & brother-in-law, Dave Becker. Dear son-in-law of Eugene and Rosanne Schaffer. Longtime friend and business partner of Kathleen
 BIERMAN-Jordan B. On Jan. 13, 2002 at age 73 after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Beloved husband of Ellen, caring father of Daniel and his wife Alice, devoted stepfather of Karen Aibel and Jeffrey Aibel and wife Kathryn, doting Poppa of Aaron Bierman and Sydney Aibel, brother of Ju
 BUSCHMAN-Howard C., III. Beloved father, husband, son and brother. Funeral services Thursday, 2PM, Marble Collegiate Church. Memorial contributions in his memory may be made to Citymeals-on-Wheels, Keene Valley Library Association, New York Times Neediest Cases or Williams College. 
 DEFENDORF-Charles E. On January 13, 2002, of North Salem, NY at the age of 89. Former president and CEO of Seelye, Stevenson, Value & Knecht and former chief engineer of the Penn Central Railroad. Survived by his wife of 53 years, Beatrice, and sons, Charlie, Richard and Robert and one gran
 FINE-Herman J. Of Bronx, New York, beloved husband of Esther (Goldstein) Fine, died on January 14, 2002. He was born in New York, June 14, 1913. He was a longtime member of Beth Shraga Synagogue. He attended Yeshiva D'Harlem and Yeshiva Yitzhak Elchanan High School. He then went to City Col
 NORTON-H. Ray. Died January 11, 2002 in VT. Formerly of Darien, CT. retired to VT. from a long career with Chemical Bank. Proud father of Tom Norton, Nancy Batchelor, Janet Sniffen, Ken Norton, grandfather of seven. His zest for life was his trademark. A celebration of his life is planned f
 SWANSON-Robert Sinclair Jr. Of Naples, FL, and South Burlington, VT, died in Naples on January 10, 2002. He was born in New York City to Robert and Louise Swanson on April 27, 1925. He was graduated from the Stony Brook School and Babson College. He served in the 10th Mountain Division of t
 VANCE-Cyrus R. Devoted husband of Grace Sloane Vance. Beloved father of Elsie, Amy, Grace, Camilla and Cyrus. Proud grandfather of Simon and Clare Vance and Kemal Askar, and honored father-in-law of Peggy Vance, Brig. Gen. (Ret.) William Holmes, and Atilla Askar. Died Saturday, January 12, 
 Dr. Stephen B. Dobrow, who served for 40 years as the surrogate voice of the straphanger, demanding better mass transit, hectoring transit officials and using his encyclopedic knowledge of the subways to suggest better ways to fix them, died on Sunday at his home in Woodside, Queens. He was
 William A. Moses, a New York City real estate executive who was active in organizations representing small landlords, died on Jan. 3 in his home in Manhattan. He was 74. His health had been declining, his family said. He founded the Community Housing Improvement Program in 1
 Edwin McCammon Martin, who was assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs during the Cuban missile crisis in late 1962, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Martin was a career diplomat who attained
 George Rochester, an architect of particle physics known for discovering the kaon particle and regarded as one of Britain's most respected scientists, died on Dec. 26 in England. He was 93. Dr. Rochester made history in the 1940's when he discovered nuclear matter that was heavier t
 Keith Clark, the Army bugler whose imperfect rendition of taps at the funeral of President John F. Kennedy came to be seen as a perfect embodiment of national sorrow, died last Friday at a hospital in Fort Pierce, Fla. Mr. Clark, who lived in Port Charlotte, Fla., was 74. The cause 
 Michael A. Bilandic, who became mayor of Chicago after the death of Richard J. Daley, his mentor, only to see the Daley political machine sputter to a stop under his leadership, died on Tuesday in Chicago. He was 78. The cause was a heart rupture, said Dr. Dan Fintel of Northwestern
 BILIK-Eugene Wyckoff. 76, of Stamford. Died January 15, 2002. Known professionally as Gene Wyckoff, he is survived by his best friend and wife of 51 years, Doris Jeanne Leighton. Cherished father of Wendy Louise (deceased), Pamela, Eliza, and Katie. Proud grandfather of Dylan, Ryan, and Dus
 BONAR-James A., 67. Of Larchmont, NY and Lake Cossayuna, NY, on December 15. Loving and devoted father of five children, all from his first marriage: James B., Monica, Christopher, Marguerite Keller, and Julia. Doting grandfather of five. Beloved husband of the late Eulalie Hilts Bonar. Dea
 DEMME-Ted. The entire staff of Creative Film Management mourns the loss of Ted Demme. A wonderful creative partner, Ted was an even better friend. Ted loved his work and everyone loved working with him. Besides vision, energy and wit Ted had a big heart. Our sincerest condolences to his wif
 GATTEL-Gerhard. At 89 years of age on January 16, 2002. Survived by his cousins, Eveline Roth and Leopold Gattel. Funeral service Friday, 12:30 PM Schwartz Bros Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd at 76th Rd, Forest Hills, NY.       
 LYNN-Marvin. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 NEUMANN-Gerard A. on January 15, 2002 of Naples, Florida, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Past President and Chairman of the Board of Spearin, Preston & Burrows, Inc. Beloved husband of the late Alice Gertrude Neumann. Devoted father of Mary Alice Cunningham, Gerard, Rosanne Sheridan, George, K
 O'DONNELL-John B., on January 15, 2002. Beloved father and close friend. Survived by his daughters, Alison and Melissa, and friend, Steven T. Wozencraft. Loving son of Thelma, fond nephew of Edna Kawash. Family will receive friends on Thursday and Friday, 35 PM and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbe
 REBOUSSIN - Marcel Auguste (April 26, 1906-January 15, 2002). Died in Williamsburg on January 15th after a brief illness. He was 95. A Professor of French with the Department of Modern Languages at the College of William and Mary (1946-1968), he is survived by his son Roland, two grandsons 
 RITTER-Chaskele, Cantor. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a most cherished member of its extended family. Chaskele was not only admired as one of the greatest cantors of his century, but was equally respected for his commitment to Am Yisrael and Eretz Yisrael, 
 SCHAAP-Dick. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Dick Schaap, an early and ardent supporter of an Olympic Games in New York City. The great chronicler of New York sports, its glorious history, colorful personalities and extraordinary events, he was a friend and mentor and the source of
 SEIFF-Saul. Died in his sleep on January 15 after a prolonged illness. Builder and philanthropist, he is mourned by his wife, Elaine, his sister, Estelle Fincke, his daughters, Marilyn, Francine and Andrea, his grandchildren Joshua, Hilary, Lisa, Alex and Erika and his great-grandchildren A
 SILVER-Julius. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) deeply mourn the loss of Julius Silver, a distinguished and colorful attorney, devoted philanthropist and seminal figure in the ATS/Technion partnership. By founding the Technion's Julius Silver Institute of
 STEINMANN-Derick Otis. 58. Died on January 5, 2002 in St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands. Chairman of the Board and CEO of American Banker and the Bond Buyer from 1975 to the mid 1980s, he worked to transition them into the computer era and facilitated their sale to International Thoms
 VANCE-Cyrus R. The Fellows of the America-China Forum join with the Directors and staff of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations in recording our deep sorrow in the loss of the vision, leadership, counsel and friendship of Cyrus Vance. A world-respected statesman and outstanding na
 WHITEHOUSE - Eugene M., (1958-2002), Chief Operating Officer at M.H. Meyerson & Co., Inc. passed away Thursday, January 10, 2002. Gene was part of our family at M.H. Meyerson & Co., Inc. for 20 years. His untimely passing touched us all very deeply. He was well loved and respected by his co
 YARVIN-Harold. Sylvan League mourns the loss of one of our most valued members. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Eleanor, his children and grandchildren.       
 KLEIN - Felix. 1/17/11 - 7/26/94. Founder, National Society for Graphology. World renowned teacher, beloved by all whose lives he touched. Janic       
 Paul Jones Fannin, a two-term Republican senator, three-term governor and longtime pillar of Arizona conservatism, died on Sunday at his home in Phoenix. He was 94. When Mr. Fannin was first elected to a two-year term as governor in 1958, he made it his business to work with the Dem
 Peter G. Levathes, 90, a movie and television production executive in New York who led the 20th Century Fox studios in the early 1960's, died on Jan. 9 in Washington. As executive vice president in charge of worldwide production, he helped to recoup Fox's finances after the huge cos
 Samuel A. Tower, a writer and an editor for The New York Times and a stamp columnist there for 11 years, died Friday in New Haven. He was 87. He pursued his interest in stamps in two books, ''A Stamp Collector's History of the United States'' (Messner, 1975) and ''Makers of America:
 Arne H. W. Larsson, a Swedish engineer who in 1958 received the world's first implanted heart pacemaker, has died in Stockholm. He was 86. A variety of pacemakers triggered Mr. Larsson's last billion heart beats, making him a medical marvel and a pioneer in one of the great triumphs
 Camilo Jos Cela, winner of the 1989 Nobel Prize in Literature who was as well known in his native Spain for his sardonic humor and irascible personality as he was for his writing, died today at a Madrid hospital. He was 85. Mr. Cela made his reputation with his first -- and many s
 John William Locke, an artist's representative who helped transform the aesthetics of American illustration by introducing satiric European illustrators and cartoonists to  magazines, book publishers and advertising agencies, died on Jan. 3 in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 87. In 1
 CADENA-Carlos Alberto. On January 16, 2002. Beloved husband of Rosalba. Dear father of Martin, Fernando, Alberto and Nancy. Proud grandfather of 4. Survived by his mother Elena. Family to receive friends at Leo F. Kearns Funeral Home, 103-33 Lefferts Blvd., Richmond Hill, NY, Friday 29 P.M.
 COONS-Robert H. On January 16, 2002. Beloved husband of Jean. Devoted father of Henry, Timothy, Michael and Louis. Cherished grandfather of nine. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Memorial service Monday, January 21, 11 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 S
 FROMMER-Wolf. The partners and staff of Loeb & Troper mourn the passing of Wolf Frommer, father of our partner, Jesse Frommer. May his family be comforted by the wonderful memories of the loving relationship they had with their husband, father and grandfather. We extend our deepest sympathy
 KANTO-John M. Died on January 7, 2002 at age 57 after a long and courageous struggle with emphysema. Son of Florene and the late John U. Kanto, John was born in Carlsbad, NM in 1944. In 1967, after attending Texas Western University in El Paso, John came to New York and joined Citibank as a
 LAWRENCE-William Goadby, 88. A world renowned artist, died in Edgecomb, Maine on January 5, 2002. He was the youngest son of Robert Cutting Lawrence and Marguerite Lowe Lawrence. Bill's paintings are in the permanent collections of the Library of Congress, the Museum of Natural History, and
 LYNN-Marvin S. Age 73, of Great Neck, NY died peacefully in his home on Wednesday, January 16, 2002. After 50 years of marriage, he remains adored by his wife Nancy; beloved father of Amy Freed & Richard Lynn; treasured grandfather of Janelle & Hope Lynn and Julia & Gregory Lynn; dear broth
 O'DONNELL-John B. On January 15, 2002. Beloved father and close friend. Survived by his daughters, Alison and Melissa, and friend, Steven T. Wozencraft. Loving son of Thelma, fond nephew of Edna Kawash. Family will receive friends on Thursday and Friday, 35 PM and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbel
 THOMSEN-Basil Max. Died January 15, 2002, after a courageous struggle to recover following open heart surgery. Beloved husband of Barbara, devoted father of Kim and Jon, loving brother of Phil and Doug and their wives Claire and Flora. His kindness, humor and generosity of spirit will be re
 A. A. Sommer Jr., an influential corporate and securities lawyer and former commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was a complication of a neurological ailment, his wife 
 Bobo Olson, a middleweight champion in the 1950's who was most remembered for his four losing bouts against Sugar Ray Robinson, died Wednesday at a hospital in Honolulu. He was 73. He had Alzheimer's disease for many years. In a professional boxing career that spanned two de
 Harding L. Lawrence, an airline executive whose innovations transformed Braniff International Airways, died on Wednesday at his residence in Mustique, St. Vincent, West Indies. He was 81 and maintained another residence in London. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Catherine Lebo
 ALI-Asad, M.D. The Parkway Hospital Board of Directors, Medical Board, Administration and Dr. Alan P. Zeitlin mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Dr. Asad Ali. Dr. Ali, a Neurologist, was on our staff since 1995. He was a caring, compassionate physician and will be missed by all. 
 BARTH-Thomas B., 41. Of Delray Beach, FL passed away on January 15, 2002. Thomas was born in Germany and came to the United States when he was 15. He is survived by his mother Claire I. Barth of Delray Beach, a half brother Jorg Bihlmarie of Germany. A funeral mass will be celebrated Monday
 EZERSKY-Eugene, Dr. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished and devoted member Dr. Eugene Ezersky. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai, Sunday, January 20, 2002 at 10AM. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi No
 MAGNUS-Lewis B. On January 18, 2002. Devoted husband of the late Lillian; beloved father of Leah Frohlich & Fani Magnus Monson; dear father-in-law of Sydney Frohlich and Rabbi Michael Monson; devoted grandfather of Howard, Jennifer, Julia & Rachel; adoring great-grandfather of Leeba, Binyam
 O'DONNELL-John B. The staff of The John O'Donnell Company mourns the death of John B. O'Donnell, our President, colleague, and friend. A pioneer in the field of fund raising, John worked to strengthen non-profit organizations of many different kinds for nearly 40 years. His creativity, cour
 Warren Steibel, producer and director of the television program ''Firing Line,'' whose host was the conservative commentator William F. Buckley Jr., died on Jan. 3 in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, said Frances Bronson, a longtime aide to Mr
 Bert Steinhauser, one of the pre-eminent art directors in the advertising industry's golden age of creativity in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Jan. 6 in Manhattan. Mr. Steinhauser, who lived in Chappaqua, N.Y., was 73. The cause was cancer, the family said. Mr. Steinhauser 
 John Grigg, a conservative journalist, biographer and polemicist whose role in British public discourse bore resemblances to that of William F. Buckley Jr. in the United States, died on Dec. 31 in London, where he lived. He was 77. Betraying in his thinking what he referred to as ''
 The Rev. Ernest Gordon of Princeton University died early Wednesday, some 60 years after he began to find his religious faith in the squalor, cruelty and death of a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp along the Kwai River. He was 85. Mr. Gordon, the retired dean of the chapel and universi
 Norman Kay, one of the world's great bridge players, died on Thursday at his home in Narberth, Pa. He was 74. The cause was an acute pulmonary embolism, said his wife, Judy. Mr. Kay had a good claim to be considered the best player who never won a world title. He came close 
 BRONSTON-Walter (Skip). Age 74, died on January 16, 2002, in Sarasota, Florida. He was born in New York City on March 18, 1927, and came to Sarasota, in 1987 from Ridgefield, CT. He was former president and CEO of Novo Corporation, a public holding company. He was also a licensed insurance 
 COHEN-Nathaniel, Lt. Colonel USAF Retired. A true patriot. Loving husband of the late Marion. Loving father of Hank and Maya. Adoring grandfather of Alex and Jenny. His love of family and country will always remain with us as an inspiration.       
 COONS-Robert H. The Brethren of St. John's Lodge No. 1, A.Y.M., F.&A.M. mourn the death of their newly departed brother. His courage under adversity and his stature as a human being were inspirations to us all. He was a loyal brother and served us well as Trustee. Marshall Jacobowitz, Maste
 CROSSMAN-Peter Gibson. Age 40 died suddenly on January 9, 2002 at his home in Bridgeville, California. Beloved son of Edgar O. Crossman and Leonie Labrot Gately and step-son of Ann Marie Crossman and Stack Gately. He is survived by his brothers Terry, William, Timothy and Scott.       
 de SAINT PHALLE-Pierre, 84. A retired textile executive and highly decorated veteran of World War II, died Monday at his home in Wyndmoor, PA. Mr. de Saint Phalle, a captain in the Army Signal Corps, was awarded the Bronze Star for heroic or meritorious achievement. He earned the medal by h
 GOLAD-Frank S. Of Astoria, New York, on Jan. 18, 2002, at the age of 77. Beloved husband of Norah. Dear father of Deborah and husband, Rudolph, Mark and wife, Ludmila. Cherished grandfather of Eric and his wife, Caroline. Frank, ''Mr. Almanac,'' was the longtime editor of the celebrated Alm
 LESHNE-Samuel, MD. Died on January 9th, 2002. Husband of Frances. Father of Carole Mandel and Paul Leshne also survived by three grandchildren Wendy Zoland, Laura Feinerman & Jodi Mandel and 4 great grandchildren. Dr. Leshne's indomitable spirit, strength, love and courage will be remembere
 LESSNER-George C., 94, died on January 7, 2002 at his home in Palm Beach, FL. He practiced law for over 60 years and was the founding partner of Lessner and Rottner in Manchester, CT. Mr. Lessner was a member of the American, Connecticut and Hartford County Bar Associations. He served as a 
 MAER-Harry. On January 18, 2002. Survived by his loving wife, Lynda, devoted nieces and nephews, Terry and Lee Goldenberg, Deborah and Gustavo Mas and Jeffrey Maer. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. MAER-Harry.
 MEINHOFER - Joseph Martin, M.D., 89. On Saturday, January 12, 2002. Beloved husband of Frances H. Meinhofer & Evelyn Meinhofer. Loving father of four children, nine grandchildren and 7 great grandchildren. Respected physician in the Brooklyn community for over 50 years. His friends and coll
 PERCES-Paul N. On January 10, 2002. The Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York marks with profound sadness the passing of Paul Perces, our beloved friend and esteemed member of the CFA Board of Directors. Paul, together with Marjorie, was a pioneering advocate for cystic fibrosis c
 RITTER-Cantor Chaskele. Heartfelt condolences to Dr. Samuel Ritter on the loss of his beloved father. Just as Cantor Ritter's melodic voice brought joy and pleasure to countless individuals, his outstretched hand of kindness helped to bring healing, happiness and peace-of-mind to thousands 
 SELIGMANN-William Benbow. On January 16, 2002, of injuries due to a fall fixing yet another leak on the roof, is survived by his wife of forty-six years, Ligoa Duncan; his daughter, Doree; his stepsons, Michel and Jean-Pierre Merle; his sister, Joan and George Hagner, and a medley of nieces
 SOFFER-Harry. Beloved husband of the late Jean, devoted father to Steve and JoAnn, and brother to Sol, died peacefully on Friday, January 18, 2002. He was 89. Prior to retirement Mr. Soffer had a long and distinguished career as a senior executive for the Department of Defense. ''He was a c
 SPELLMAN-Dr. Jerome. Beloved son of the late Minnie and David and brother of the late Robert, passed away on January 14, 2002. He will be missed by all of those he showed such care for. He lived by the motto, ''The day is short. The work is hard. Ours is not to complete the task, yet neithe
 TARRY-Nat. 94 in Delray Beach, FL, after a long life filled with love and devotion. My dad left my mom, Pauline into our care. We will try to live up to his shinig example. With love, Barbara and Marvin Gilston, Murray Tarry, his grandchildren, Craig, Faryl and Rick, his great-grandchildren
 TUCK-David Hallam. 70, died Palm Beach, January 15, after a brief illness. Survived by a brother, James M., of Guadalajara, two sisters, Clare Fahnestock Moorhead and Lee Fahnestock Leggett, both of NYC. Graduated from St. Paul's School, Hanover, NH. Attended University of Virginia and Geor
 UTSCHIG-Walter C. On January 18, 2002 at age 80. He was a long time resident of White Plains and was a retired executive with General Foods. He was the devoted husband of Mary Jane, the beloved father of Jess Austin, Jane Franz, Rose Utschig, Joan Utschig-Viola, Chuck, David, Christopher an
 VANCE-Cyrus R. The Yale Class of 1939 mourns the passing of our esteemed classmate, Cyrus R. Vance, whose life of public service has been well documented in these pages and elsewhere. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Grace, and family and to those who studied and worked with him throug
 Terry Ehrich, for 33 years the publisher and editor in chief of Hemmings Motor News, the monthly magazine that calls itself ''the bible of the old-car hobby,'' died on Thursday at the Albany Medical Center. He was 60. Mr. Ehrich had been ill with lung cancer, which was diagnosed las
 Alfred Byrd Graf, a globe-trotting botanist, collector and photographer who compiled some of the world's most elaborate and expensive plant books, died Dec. 14 at his home in Dsseldorf, Germany. He was 100. He returned to his native country three years ago after living in the Unit
 Charles Ditmas, the honorary keeper of clocks at Harvard University, who believed that each antique clock had a personality as distinct as the one he so assiduously cultivated for himself -- with his jet-black dyed hair, Edwardian sartorial style and cherished black bag of ancient tools -- 
 Gordon J. Stanley, a pioneer in radio astronomy who discovered incredibly powerful sources of radio waves in outer space, died on Dec. 17 in Monterey, Calif. He was 80. The cause of death was complications from progressive supranuclear palsy, his family said. Born in Cambrid
 Joseph Laitin, a public affairs officer who served in the government for 18 years under five presidents, died on Saturday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87. Mr. Laitin operated in the quaint belief that journalists, the public and even federal officials might benefit from the d
 ADLERSTEIN-Irving. Of Boca Raton, Atlantic City and NYC, died January 18, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by his loving wife Audrey, and dear children Helene Adlerstein, Mark (Cindy) Adlerstein, Randi Smith, Francine Smith Gerstner (Scott) and Jeffrey Smith. Devoted brother of Sally
 ALKON-Morris. 83. Beloved husband of Norma. Devoted father of Sid, Abbey, and Nancy Oberman. Proud and loving grandfather of Andy, Rachel, Sarah, Julia, Melanie, Jason and Matthew. Founder of Crystal Copy, New York City. We will miss his kind and loving spirit. Services January 21, at 11:30
 BELSKY-Murray. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Rabbi Mordecai Waxman Steven Markowitz, President       
 BLUMSTEIN-Kyver. Age 95, in Palm Beach. Beloved husband of Esther Lurie for 66 years. Devoted father of Joseph Blumstein and Timmie Rome. Loving grandfather of Narric, Mallory, Greg and Jeffrey. President of L.M. Blumstein Department Store, founded 1886. Life long member of the New York Soc
 FOLEY-Daniel J. 52, of the ABC Television Network, on January 18, 2002. He is survived by his wife Pat Farnack, and a sister, Lorraine Toropilo. Funeral Mass Tuesday, 12 noon, at St. Andrew's Church, 81 Swamp Rd, Newtown, PA, where friends may call from 10 AM to 11:45 AM. In lieu of flowers
 LYNCH-William E. On January 19, 2002. Survived by his loving wife Katie Rosenberg, his children Bill Lynch Jr. and Lorey Morrison, his sisters Lois Sullivan, Connie Lynch and brother Robert Lynch. Also surviving, six grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Wednesday, 12 noon, at Temp
 PREVOR-Irwin. Age 70, of Atlanta, GA, formerly of NYC, died unexpectedly December 14, 2001. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1931. Before leaving to join the staff at the American Cancer Society, he worked for Forbes Magazine. Irwin came to Georgia in 1988 to continue his career as Vice Pres
 LYDGATE-William A. died Jan. 21, 1998. Beloved father of Sally and John. He taught us well, and we miss him, especially since Sept. 11, 2001. Businessman, author, long-time hospital trustee; Former Pres. & Chrmn. Earl L. Newsom & Co.; Editor Gallup Poll; author ''What America Thinks''; Chrm
 Alex Hannum, a Hall of Fame coach who persuaded Wilt Chamberlain, the greatest offensive threat of his time, to change his game and play defense, and who was the first coach to win championships in both the National and the American Basketball Associations, died last Friday in San Diego. He
 BLUMSTEIN-Kyver. Age 95, in Palm Beach. Beloved husband of Esther Lurie for 66 years. Devoted father of Joseph Blumstein and Timmie Rome. Loving grandfather of Narric, Mallory, Greg and Jeffrey. President of L.M. Blumstein Department Store, founded 1886. Life long member of the New York Soc
 GILMOUR-James H. Age 92. Well regarded in the field of executive recruitment. He is survived by his wife Roseanne, a son, James Jr., two grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. Burial will be private.       
 GOLDEN-Paul. Died peacefully at home January 21, 2002. Loving husband of Ivy Golden. Father of Richard, Donald, Ellen and Robert. Father-in-law of Phyllis, Rena and Donna. Grandfather of Michelle, Lauren, Adam, Sabrina and Ben. President of Premier Studios, Inc. Funeral services at Sinai Ch
 GOLDSMITH - David H. The Grand Street Boys' Association and The Grand Street Boys' Foundation express their deep sorrow at the passing of David H. Goldsmith, Chairman of the Board and past President of the The GBSA and distinguished Board Member of the GSBF. His total involvement in the cha
 SWIFT-Humphrey H. III. Age 86. Of Hingham, MA, January 20, age 86. Beloved husband of Pamela (Whitney) Swift, devoted father of Edith S. Swift of Thirroul, New South Wales, Alexandra S. Bigelow of Dedham, MA, Pamela W. Swift-Tarnower of Newton, MA, Hope H. Swift Baker of Sherborn, MA and Al
 UNTERMAN-Milton. Age 89, died January 18, 2002. Survived by wife of 61 years, Semah (Zinsher), children Sandra Hoeh and Ronald Unterman (Dottie Finnerty), four grandsons, one great grandson, many loving relatives and dear friends. An exceptional teacher at Elisabeth Irwin H.S. in New York C
 Dr. Herchel Smith, a chemist who developed a process to synthesize hormones for birth control pills and then gave millions of dollars he earned from the patents to support academic research, died on Dec. 20 at his home in West Chester, Pa. He was 76. Dr. Smith died in his sleep, his
 Jack Shea, who won two gold medals in speedskating at the 1932 Lake Placid Olympics and was the United States' oldest Winter Games gold medalist, died yesterday in Saranac Lake, N.Y., of injuries incurred Monday in an auto accident. He was 91. Shea's death came one month after his g
 ALI-Asad, MD. The Medical Staff Society of New York Hospital Queens mourns the loss of its distinguished colleague and extends its heartfelt sympathies to his family. Marvin Leder, M.D., President Talat Addasi, M.D., Vice President Gabriel DeAngelis, M.D. Secretary/Treasurer       
 ASCH-Stuart S., M.D. The Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine, the faculty, staff and candidates of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Stuart Asch. Dr. Asch, a supervising and training analyst at the Center
 BLUMSTEIN-Kyver. Age 95, in Palm Beach. Beloved husband of Esther Lurie for 66 years. Devoted father of Joseph Blumstein and Timmie Rome. Loving grandfather of Narric, Mallory, Greg and Jeffrey. President of L.M. Blumstein Department Store, founded 1886. Life long member of the New York Soc
 D'ARMS-John Haughton. Age 67. Died January 22, 2002. Son of the late Edward F. and Cristina Coney D'Arms. Beloved husband of Teresa. Father of Justin and Helena. Grandfather of Cecilia and Kazimir. Brother of Ted and Phillip. At his death, President of the American Council of Learned Societ
 DALEY-Joseph Michael Jr. Born July 4, 1943, in New York City, died unexpectedly. He is survived by his father, Joseph Michael Daley Sr., and his wife, Marcia Daley. Formerly of Mountain Lakes, NJ. Joe attended Morris Catholic High School and Fordham University. For info, call Crosby N. Gray
 EISENPRESS-Harry. Of White Plains, N.Y. On Jan. 19, 2002 at age 84. Beloved husband of Alta for 54 years, and dear brother of Edith Ukeles. Loving father of Aron and his wife Dorothy, Eli and his wife Angela, and Samuel. Proud grandfather of Benjamin and Sasha. A generous man of integrity, 
 FEIER-Milton, 84. Of Tenafly, NJ. Passed away January 21st, 2002. Beloved husband of May Feier. Loving father of Ellen Stern, Olivia Lazarus & Jane Doft. Grandfather of Lauren and Daniel Doft and Avi Stern. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, January 23, 10:30 AM, at Gutterman-Music
 FISCHER-Irving. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Irving Fischer, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Dr. Judith Fischer, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 GINSBURG-Charles. The Brotherhood Synagogue expresses its condolences to our Chairman of the Board, Carol Ginsburg, and her husband, Steven Ginsburg, on the passing of their son, Chuck. Our heartfelt prayers are also with his wife, Erica Okone, his sister, Marjory (Phil) Paone, and his gran
 GOLDEN-Paul. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Ivy, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 GREENBERG-Cassrell ''Casey.'' We all mourn this extraordinary man. He lived a full life touching many with his kindness, love and sense of humor. He will live in our hearts always. Survived by his devoted and loving wife Florence. Dear children Carl, Ellen, Ted and Tammy. Cherished grandchi
 HIRSCH-Herbert. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Herbert Hirsch, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Delores, and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary       
 KREVAT-Peter D., M.D., 33. Died after a brief illness on January 20. Loving son and grandson to Ruth and Betty Love Zatrapeznoff of White Plains, cherished brother to Liz Krevat of West Islip. Also survived by his stepmother Vickie Hochman and two brothers, Rob and Scott. His father Jon Kre
 SALETAN-Harold Henry. At age 91. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Florence (Bobbie Green) and Shirley (Goodman). Loving father of Jane Friedberg and Richard and Suzanne Saletan. Adored Poppy of Michael and Rhonda Friedberg, Marc & Holly Friedberg, Steven and Michelle Saletan, Karen a
 SETON-Stanley, DDS. On January 22nd. Adored husband of Adele, cherished uncle of Tony, Jennie, Nora, Maggie, Julie, Wendy, Richard, Simone, Joel, Beverly, Charles and Lois. Loved by a multitude of friends. Served in the U.S. Army in WW II and as a Captain in the Air Force in the Korean War.
 WHITE-Edward ''Teddy'' III, age 30, tragically but heroically on September 11, 2001 in the line of duty at The World Trade Center as a firefighter for The Fire Department of New York, Engine Co. 230. Loving husband of Jennifer. Devoted father to his daughter, Taylor. Beloved son of Regina a
 Stanley Marcus, whose verve and flair in running the Neiman Marcus stores made him one of the world's best-known retailers, died yesterday at Zale Lipshy University Hospital in Dallas. He was 96. ''I have the simplest taste; I am always satisfied with the best,'' Mr. Marcus was know
 Everett Kircher, who founded a ski empire that offered technical advances on the country's slopes, died on Jan. 16 at a hospital in Petoskey, Mich. He was 85 and lived in Boyne Falls, Mich. The cause was complications from kidney dialysis, his family said. Mr. Kirche
 George P. Goold, a Yale classics professor who rejuvenated and debowdlerized the Loeb Classical Library, a collection of ancient Greek and Latin texts published with English translations, died on Dec. 5 in Holyoke, Mass. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his wife, Filippa Forder Gool
 Ikko Tanaka, the Japanese graphic designer whose fusion of Japanese tradition and the International Style contributed a modern sensibility to Japanese poster and publication design, died on Jan. 11 in Tokyo, where he lived. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, said Hiroko Sakomu
 John Arthur Love, a former Republican governor of Colorado and energy czar in the Nixon administration, died on Monday. He was 85 and lived in Denver. Mr. Love had only limited political experience when he was elected to the first of three terms as governor in 1963. He defeated an i
 Norman Atkins, a baritone whose broad range included opera, musical theater and Jewish liturgical music, died on Jan. 13 in Hackensack, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Mahwah, N.J. He died of complications after heart surgery, said his daughter, Andrea Atkins Hessekiel. Mr. Atki
 ABRAMS-James S. III. Of Lakeville, CT died January 22, 2002, of cancer. Mr. Abrams was born August 22, 1940, in NYC the son of Marguerite Abrams and the late James S. Abrams. He was raised in NYC and South Salem, NY. Prior to his move to Lakeville he lived in Woodstock, VT. He attended the 
 ASCH-Stuart S., M.D. A devoted uncle. Physicianly to the end. Described as a ''dazzling'' teacher, he inspired the younger generation of his family along with his many students. We will miss him. Jane Asch, M.D.       
 D'ARMS-John Haughton. Age 67. Died January 22, 2002. Son of the late Edward F. and Cristina Coney D'Arms. Beloved husband of Teresa. Father of Justin and Helena. Grandfather of Cecilia & Kazimir. Brother of Ted and Phillip. At his death, President of the American Council of Learned Societie
 DeCUZZI-Florence. The partners and staff of Pottish Freyberg Marcus and Velazquez, LLP, wish to express our sincere condolences to the DeCuzzi family. Our deepest sympathy to Frank DeCuzzi on the loss of his wife and to James DeCuzzi on the loss of his mother. Sol Pottish Joel R. Marcus Car
 ECONOMOS-William C. Died on January 18 at age 84. Longtime resident of Hartsdale, N.Y. He is survived by his loving wife Theresa; his children Christine, Nikki, Kirk, Denise and their families. Private services are at Arlington National Cemetery.       
 FENG-YANG-Chai. Former Director of the Security Council and Political Committees of the United Nations, died at age 94 on January 18, 2002. Born in China, he attended Tsinghua University, graduated from Stanford University in 1931, and did graduate work at the University of Illinois and the
 FISHER-Robert P. International Silk Association (USA) mourns the passing, on January 22, 2002, of its Honorary President, Robert P. Fisher. Mr. Fisher served this association for many years and was one of the giants of the silk industry. Mr. Fisher touched us all in very personal ways. We e
 LICHT-Esther. The entire Long Island College Hospital (LICH) family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Esther Licht, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Arnold Licht, M.D., Chairman, Departmen
 MARCUS-Stanley. The Board of Directors and staff of the Georgia O'Keeffe Museum are deeply saddened by the passing of Stanley Marcus, one of the Museum's first Board members. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Linda, who is currently a member of our Board, and to his family. St
 SETON-Stanley, DDS. On January 22nd. Adored husband of Adele, cherished uncle of Tony, Jennie, Nora, Maggie, Julie, Wendy, Richard, Simone, Joel, Beverly, Charles and Lois. Loved by a multitude of friends. Served in the U.S. Army in WW II and as a Captain in the Air Force in the Korean War.
 TSIMIS-John N. On January 22, 2002. Beloved husband of Maroula. Loving father of Nickolas, George and his wife Evelyn. Cherished grandfather of John. Fond brother of Joan Halkias, her son Stelio and his wife Eleni. Brother-in-law of Michael, his wife Jacqueline and Constantine. Son-in-law o
 UNGER-Robert E. On January 22, 2002 of Roslyn Heights, New York. Beloved husband of Barbara, devoted & loving father of Morgan. Cherished son of Laura, dear brother of Leslie. Proprietor of North Shore Optics, Greenvale, LI. The family requests that in lieu of Memorials or other tributes th
 VOGEL-David M. At age 95. Devoted husband of Shirley. Adored father of Victoria and Berthold Bilski. Dear Patah of Michael Lippert, Robin Lippert, Gillian Lippert and Richard Sutton. Loving brother of Speed and Luann Vogel and Constance and Wallace Davidson. Caring uncle. Devoted member of 
 Robert Nozick, the intellectually nimble Harvard philosopher whose critique of America's social welfare system 25 years ago continues to define the debate between conservatives and liberals, died yesterday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 63. He died of complications from stomach cancer, 
 Igor Kipnis, the virtuoso harpsichordist whose busy concert recording career made him the instrument's most ardent cheerleader,  died on Wednesday at his Connecticut home. He was 71. He had been suffering from cancer, according to the agency that managed his career, Marilyn Gilbert 
 Michael Young, a sociologist and reformer who was a chief architect of Britain's postwar welfare state, died Jan. 14 at his home in London. He was 86. He had been ill with cancer for some time, The Associated Press reported. Although he never held elective office, Mr. Young 
 ALI-Asad, MD. January 17, 2002. The Neurology Staff at The New York Hospital-Queens, is deeply saddened by the death of our longtime friend and colleague, Asad Ali, MD. Among his many legacies is a lifelong devotion to the care of the needy and the infirm, and a determined commitment to the
 ASCH-Stuart S., M.D. Professor Emeritus of Clinical Psychiatry, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, and Honorary Attending Psychiatrist, New York-Presbyterian Hospital. An unusually gifted teacher, clinician and administrator, Dr. Stuart Asch was a beloved member of our department 
 CHAI-Feng-Yang. Former Director of the Security Council and Political Committees of the United Nations, died at age 94 on January 18, 2002. Born in China, he attended Tsinghua University, graduated from Stanford University in 1931, and did graduate work at the University of Illinois and the
 D'ARMS-John H. It is with deep sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the loss of John D'Arms, distinguished scholar, President of the American Council of Learned Societies, and Fellow of the Academy for the past ten years. His wide scholarly interests and administrati
 DAVIDSON-Herbert S. Passed away on January 24 at age 79. Beloved husband of Jan and the late Grace, devoted father to Ken and Willa and Andrew Epstein, adored and loving grandfather of Michael, dearest brother of Robert and Esther Davidoff, and much loved brother-in-law to Richard and Lynn 
 FEIRING-William, MD, FACP, age 95. Died January 23, 2002 at his home in Waterside Retirement Estates, Sarasota, FL. He was born in New York City on June 25, 1906 and came to Sarasota in April 1972. He was a graduate of CCNY and NYU and practiced medicine as an internist. He was married to t
 FINCH-Edward E. Age 77, resident of Rockville Centre, NY and Palm Beach Gardens, FL. died on January 18, 2002. Survived by his loving wife of 52 years, Mildred. Devoted father of Raymond, Jack, Dan, Julie, Florence, Ed and Liz. Cherished ''Pop'' of thirteen grandchildren. Ed was born and ra
 PELTZ-John deWitt, Jr. After a long illness, on January 22, 2002. Loving brother of Mary Nevius of Farmington, CT and Henry Peltz of Manchester, VT. Interment private. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory may be made to St. Saviour's Church, Bar Harbor, ME.       
 SCHIFF-Stuart. Amy and I will miss you terribly. We worked closely together for 14 years and we enjoyed a lasting friendship for an additional 12 years. We grieve for Barbara and for Stephen and we will always fondly reflect smilingly on the hundreds of times we spent laughing together over
 STERN-Irene. SAR Academy mourns the loss of the beloved wife of Boris Stern, loving mother of our longtime benefactor, Joel Stern, and former parent Roberta Horowitz. May the entire family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President Ludwig Bravmann, Vi
 TSIMIS-John N. On January 22, 2002. Beloved husband of Maroula. Loving father of Nickolas, George and his wife Evelyn. Cherished grandfather of John. Fond brother of Joan Halkias, her son Stelio and his wife Eleni. Brother-in-law of Michael, his wife Jacqueline and Constantine. Son-in-law o
 UPBIN-Israel. Died January 14, 2002 at age 90. Beloved husband of Charlotte, devoted father to Robert, loving grandfather to Daniel, Rachel and Barry. He received rabbinical ordination from Yeshiva University, where he graduated valedictorian in the first class of the school. He then worked
 VOGEL-David M. At age 95. Devoted husband of Shirley. Adored father of Victoria and Berthold Bilski. Dear Patah of Michael Lippert, Robin Lippert, Gillian Lippert and Richard Sutton. Loving brother of Speed and Luann Vogel and Constance and Wallace Davidson. Caring uncle. Devoted member of 
 Pierre Bourdieu, a leading French sociologist and maverick intellectual who emerged as a public figure here in the 1990's by championing the antiglobalization movement and other antiestablishment causes, died in a Paris hospital on Wednesday. He was 71. The cause was cancer, friends
 AS a physician at the Human Rights Foundation here, Dr. Onder Ozkalipci tends to the handiwork of sadists. He talks of the most popular methods of torturers as another doctor might talk of the perils of cholesterol. There's ''falanga,'' the beating of the soles of the feet, and ''su
 Bertalan de Nemethy, an elegant, one-time Hungarian cavalry captain who coached the United States Equestrian Team to Olympic and other international success for a quarter century, died Jan. 16 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90 and had contracted pneumonia after being hospitalized the 
 John H. D'Arms, the president of the American Council of Learned Societies, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 67 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was brain cancer, his family said. Dr. D'Arms was a classicist whose work focused on the history of ancient 
 DAVIDSON-Herbert S. Passed away on January 24 at age 79. Beloved husband of Jan and the late Grace, devoted father to Ken and Willa and Andrew Epstein, adored and loving grandfather of Michael, dearest brother of Robert and Esther Davidoff, and much loved brother-in-law to Richard and Lynn 
 DRAPKIN-Arnold, January 24, 2002. Beloved husband of Carol. Devoted father of Brock, Meredith, Betsy and step-father of Lisa. Loving brother of Jocelyn Ruthberg. Cherished grandfather of Ryan and Gemma. He was a distinguished physician and member of the faculty at Mount Sinai School of Medi
 KIPNIS-Igor. Reveled in harpsichord applications. His dad Alexander prepared my Carnegie Hall solo debut. Kenneth Lane, heldentenor www.WagnerOpera.com       
 LEVENSON-Larry. Larry Levenson's family, with great pain, must tell you of his tragic death on January 24, 2002. Larry was one of the best, nicest people who ever lived. His career in advertising was brilliant, his many other writings were sharp, insightful, full of love and humor. But the 
 ROWE-Donald C., 51. Of Ridgefield, CT. Jan. 24, 2002. A regulatory attorney with Verizon Corporation of NYC. Survived by his wife, Carolyn Harris Rowe of Ridgefield, 3 sons, Robert Andrew, William Harris & David Alexander Rowe, his father William Elijah Rowe of Brooklyn, NY, his brother Wil
 SCHIFF-Stuart. Amy and I will miss you terribly. We worked closely together for 14 years and we enjoyed a lasting friendship for an additional 12 years. We grieve for Barbara and for Stephen and we will always fondly reflect smilingly on the hundreds of times we spent laughing together over
 SEIDNER-Eugene M. Age 68, on January 25, 2002, of N. Caldwell, NJ. Survived by his loving wife Harriet, daughters Elyse SeidnerJoseph, Martha Seidner Gelber and Robin Seidner; mother Rachel Seidner; sister Laura Robb; grandchildren Samuel, Erica, Sydney and Jake. He was a graduate of Fordha
 VOGEL-David M. At age 95. Devoted husband of Shirley. Adored father of Victoria and Berthold Bilski. Dear Patah of Michael Lippert, Robin Lippert, Gillian Lippert and Richard Sutton. Loving brother of Speed and Luann Vogel and Constance and Wallace Davidson. Caring uncle. Devoted member of 
 Ron Taylor, who created the voice of Audrey II, the malicious man-eating plant in the cult musical ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' as well as writing and starring in the sleeper hit ''It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues'' on Broadway, died on Jan. 15 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 49. Th
 ASCH-Stuart S., M.D. An exquisite psychiatrist with grace, wisdom and humanity. He could carve angels on the heads of pins. My heart aches, Louise Lasser       
 BRANDIN-Ake. Of Ossining, New York died in the early hours, Monday, January 21, succumbing to congestive heart failure after a long and difficult illness. He was 77 years old. Husband, father and grandfather, he is held in loving memory by wife Greta, sons Jan and Per and his grandchildren 
 CAHAN-Bernard R., 74. Of Naples Florida, formerly of Philadelphia. Mr. Cahan was a World War II veteran, serving in the Pacific. A retired financial consultant, he is survived by his wife Cecilia, son Bruce, daughter Karen, grandsons Jacob and Eli & other family members. Bernie, we will mis
 CRUZ-Urias M. My father, born January 8, 1917, died December 31, 2001, A.D. He went to bed. He went to sleep. He left it all behind. Alone as he chose. Louis A. Cruz       
 DRAPKIN-Arnold, January 24, 2002. Beloved husband of Carol. Devoted father of Brock, Meredith, Betsy and step-father of Lisa. Loving brother of Jocelyn Ruthberg. Cherished grandfather of Ryan and Gemma. He was a distinguished physician and member of the faculty at Mount Sinai School of Medi
 EISENBERG-George H., 92. On January 13th, 2002 in Rancho Bernardo, CA. Predeceased by adored wife, Dorothy, of 41 years. Beloved husband of Maidie for 31 years. Loving father of M. Michael. Devoted grandfather of Elyse, Ellen & Andrea. Cherished great-grandfather of Gabby and Tom. A gifted 
 GREENE-Lewis M., 102 years, loving and proud father of Barry H. (and Betty), adoring grandfather and friend of Lisa (and Jonathan Polish) and Jacqueline (and Joshua Orenstein). He began each day reading the New York Times obits. Private funeral service.       
 JAMES-Henry Jr. Librarian Emeritus of Sweet Briar, Virginia, died January 21 in North Branford, CT. He graduated from Yale University in 1940 and received his Master's degrees from Stanford and Columbia Universities. In retirement he was an alumni activist for Yale University and a docent a
 LANDES-Robert N. January 25, 2002. Of New York City and Naples, FL. Beloved husband of Phyllis Markman Landes. Loving father of Jeffrey Mark Landes, Kathy Braddock and Lucy Harrop. Dear father-in-law of Mark D. Harrop and Andrea C. Landes. Cherished grandfather of Philip Wildman Braddock. C
 LOEWENSTEIN-Louis K. Urbanologist and civic activist, died in San Francisco, CA Jan. 22, 2002 at the age of 74, of cancer. Raised in NYC, he was educated at the Univ. of VA, Columbia and the Univ. of PA. He moved to San Francisco, where he divided his time between an international consultin
 MELTZER-Herman. The family of Herman Meltzer sadly notes his passing on January 26, 2002, in Glen Cove, NY. Mr. Meltzer was 94 years old. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Selma and his sister Sylvia. He is survived by his sisters Phoebe Levine and Blanche Multer of Deerfield Beach, FL
 SCHIFF-Stuart. Amy and I will miss you terribly. We worked closely together for 14 years and we enjoyed a lasting friendship for an additional 12 years. We grieve for Barbara and for Stephen and we will always fondly reflect smilingly on the hundreds of times we spent laughing together over
 SHEBA-Dov. With great sorrow we announce the passing of Dov Sheba on Jan. 18, 2002, in Israel. A founding member of Kibbutz Eilon, Dov worked tirelessly in recent years for the establishment and expansion of the Keshet Eilon Violin Mastercourse. In honor of his memory, his many friends woul
 TONNIES-Frank N. Age 66, of Lake-in-the-Woods, Spring Hill, FL, passed away Saturday, January 19, 2002 at Oak Hill Hospital, Brooksville, FL. Born in Whitestone, NY he moved to Florida 12 years ago. Mr. Tonnies retired as a world recognized Consulting Engineer in synthetic fiber production,
 YOUNG-John P. On January 23, 2002. Married for 57 years to his beloved Ruth. Devoted father of Patricia, Pamela and Bill. Cherished father-in-law of Marie and the late Kevin Mahon. Adored by his ''M&Ms,'' his granddaughters, Meghan & Marissa. Dear brother of Thomas and the late Robert and E
 Richard Brown Baker, a collector of contemporary art whose keen eye and largess benefited both the Yale University Art Gallery and the Museum of Art at the Rhode Island School of Design, died on Tuesday in Shelburne, Vt. He was 89 and lived in Shelburne. Mr. Baker was a tall, reserv
 James L. Usry, who in 1984 became the first black man to be elected Atlantic City's mayor but was defeated six years later in the middle of a municipal corruption scandal, died Friday at a nursing home in Galloway Township, N.J. He was 79 and had been suffering from diabetes and can
 John Buscema, a comic book artist known for his robust renditions of characters like the Silver Surfer and Conan the Barbarian, died on Jan. 10. He was 74 and lived in Port Jefferson, N.Y. The cause was stomach cancer, said his son, John Buscema Jr. Mr. Buscema's most popula
 Dr. Kenneth J. Ryan, a Harvard obstetrician who helped the nation grapple with thorny ethical issues like fetal tissue research, died on Jan. 5 at his home in Weston, Mass.  He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Ryan made a name for himself early in h
 Michel Poniatowski, a former French interior minister who helped Valry Giscard d'Estaing become president in 1974 but whose career was plunged into controversy by a murder scandal and increasingly reactionary views, died on Jan. 15 in his home in Opio, Alpes-Maritimes, in southeastern Fra
 BREITMAN-Benjamin. Age 77, on January 25, 2002. Survived by his wife Evelyn, daughter Susan and husband Howard, son Steven and wife Sherry, and grandchildren Jodi, Abby, Lindsay, Jessica and Michael. Funeral at 1 PM, Tuesday, Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd. at 76th Road
 De SERIO-Francis William. On January 25, 2002, of Rosemont, PA, formerly of Hornell, NY. Mr. De Serio was retired from the Defense Department in 1984 and served as President of Essex Research Corporation since 1987. He was the beloved husband of Charlotte Heuer De Serio. Like a father to Ro
 DRUM-Richard X. On January 25, 2002. Beloved husband of Maureen. Survived by his loving children Richard, Eric, Jennifer & their mother Lina. Cherished brother of Gary, Ronald, Barbara Kursar, Brian, Harry, Kenneth, and Marian Paul. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Friends may call
 FROEHLICH-Monroe, Jr., 85, died January 25 in Rancho Mirage, CA. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Doris Adelberg and Marjorie K. Densen. Loving father of Roger and Peggy Froehlich and Barbara and Albert Gross. Cherished grandfather of Scott and Shannon Froehlich, Karen and Michael Pe
 LANDES-Robert N. January 25, 2002. Of New York City and Naples, FL. Beloved husband of Phyllis Markman Landes. Loving father of Jeffrey Mark Landes, Kathy Braddock and Lucy Harrop. Dear father-in-law of Mark D. Harrop and Andrea C. Landes. Cherished grandfather of Philip Wildman Braddock. C
 MELTZER-Herman. The family of Herman Meltzer sadly notes his passing on January 26, 2002, in Glen Cove, NY. Mr. Meltzer was 94 years old. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Selma and his sister Sylvia. He is survived by his sisters Phoebe Levine and Blanche Multer of Deerfield Beach, FL
 RODRIGUEZ-Harold J. Age 81, January 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Joan. Devoted father of Pam, Lee, Hal, Joanne and Nancy. Cherished grandfather of Kate, Colin, Christine and Laura Stirrat, Rebecca, Ashley and Tracy Schneider, Christopher and Anne Rodriguez and Alexander and Brian Black. A d
 SCHIFF-Stuart. Amy and I will miss you terribly. We worked closely together for 14 years and we enjoyed a lasting friendship for an additional 12 years. We grieve for Barbara and for Stephen and we will always fondly reflect smilingly on the hundreds of times we spent laughing together over
 WOLFF-Werner. Black Star notes with sorrow the passing of Werner Wolff, pioneering photojournalist. He was a loyal friend to three generations of Black Star photographers and employees. Our deepest sympathy to his entire family. Benjamin J. Chapnick, President WOLFF-Werner. A photoj
 John Jackson, a master of the Piedmont tradition of blues, country and ragtime, died on Jan. 20 at his home in Fairfax, Va. He was 77. The cause was kidney failure, but he had also suffered from lung and liver cancer, said his manager, Trish Byerly. In a honey-cured Virginia
 BERGER-Spencer Merriam. Age 84, died on January 12, 2002. Business executive, film historian and artist. President and chairman of the board of the former Berger Brothers Company of New Haven, CT. A leading authority on the Barrymores. Important artist of watercolors and pen-and-inks, menta
 DRAPKIN-Arnold, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and long time friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., President William G. Stein, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla
 DRAPKIN-Arnold. M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our dedicated colleague and friend. Dr. Drapkin had a large practice in the field of Internal Medicine. He was adored by his patients and respected by his colleagues. He will be rem
 FRACCHIA-Alfred Andrew, M.D. On January 27, 2002, after a long illness. Loving husband of ''Timmie'' and father of John, Paul, Robbie, Diane, Alfred, Claudia and Michael. Survived also by his sister, Vivian Bottari, three nieces, two nephews and nineteen grandchildren. In repose at the Fair
 FRIEDMAN-Israel S. ''Sol'' died peacefully at home January 25, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Blanche Friedman for 62 years. A WWII veteran and retired dentist, he worked 30 years for the Veteran's Administration. He is survived by his daughter Lois, son Matthew and his wife Mary and bel
 GOLDER-Walter E. (Walt). Suddenly on January 19, 2002 in Virgin Gorda, B.V.I. Survived by his wife Joan Olsen Golder, children Katherine, Michael, Jan Golder Hokenberg; son-in-law James; grandchildren Jessica and Eric Hokenberg; brother Arthur and sister Harriet Golder Foxenberg. Mr Golder,
 GRAHAM-William. Of Stamford, CT and St. Simons Island, GA, died January 27, 2002 at age 86. Beloved husband for 62 years of Louise Stern Graham. Loving father of Patricia G. Stotler, Margot G. Kaczynski and William L. Graham. Fond father-in-law of John L. Stotler, Stanley J. Kaczynski and S
 KIPNIS-Igor. Mannes College of Music mourns the passing of Igor Kipnis, distinguished harpsichordist and pianist, and faculty member at Mannes for more than three years. His consummate knowledge of keyboard playing will be missed by all of us. Joel Lester, Dean, Mannes College of Music     
 KLUGER-Kenneth. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LANDES-Robert N. January 25, 2002. Of New York City and Naples, FL. Beloved husband of Phyllis Markman Landes. Loving father of Jeffrey Mark Landes, Kathy Braddock and Lucy Harrop. Dear father-in-law of Mark D. Harrop and Andrea C. Landes. Cherished grandfather of Philip Wildman Braddock. C
 LAPSLEY-John Willard. Died January 26, 2002, following a prolonged illness. He is survived by his wife, Hope Whitney Lapsley; a daughter, Adelaide Mulry of Glen Cove, NY; two sons, Howard of Needham, MA, and Robert of Seattle, WA, and three sisters, Marion Schwarz of New York, NY, Nina Alex
 McCLINTOCK-John William. On January 28, 2002. Former New York County Commander of the America Legion. He was a graduate of Columbia University and St. Paul's School in Concord, NH. He is survived by his former wife Shirley S. McClintock and sons: Barton, Charles and Scott, and his brother T
 MIZERIK-Joel, tragically on January 22, 2002. Joel was a self-employed decorator who lived in Manhattan and later in Yonkers. Survivors include his father, Frank; his sister and her husband, Gwen and Leo Penzine; his brother, Frank Jr.; nieces and nephews, Christina and Maurizio Nicolelli, 
 RODRIGUEZ-Harold J. Age 81, January 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Joan. Devoted father of Pam, Lee, Hal, Joanne and Nancy. Cherished grandfather of Kate, Colin, Christine and Laura Stirrat, Rebecca, Ashley and Tracy Schneider, Christopher and Anne Rodriguez and Alexander and Brian Black. A d
 SCHILLER-Carl, M.D. Beloved husband and best friend of Lynn C. Schiller. Devoted father of Billy, Alice, and Phyllis and Warren Blumenthal. Loving grandfather of Ian and Tanya. Loving brotherin-law, uncle, great-uncle and great-great-uncle. He created the Plastic Surgery Department at Maimo
 SETON-Stanley, M.D. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Stanley Seton, on January 22. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services were held in Florida and New York City. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, D
 SWIFT-Richard N. His College High School classmates of 1940 mourn the loss of our Valedictorian, WWII artillary officer, Harvard Ph.D., Professor Emeritus at NYU, and, most importantly, a dear friend.       
 THIER-Ira L. On January 27, 2002. Beloved husband of Joanne. Loving father of Amy. Cherished grandfather of Alex Martin. Dear brother, cousin, uncle and friend. A gentle, caring, courageous man. Contributions in his memory may be made for music scholarships to The Juilliard School, 60 Linco
 WOLFF-Werner. Born June 11, 1911. Husband for 60 years of Alice E. Wolff, father of Steven and Mark H. Wolff, grandfather of Dr. Elizabeth R. Wolff and Avery M. Wolff. Werner Wolff was a prominent photojournalist who worked with Alfred Eisenstaedt and later went on to photograph such notabl
 Andrew W. Cooper, a civil rights advocate and publisher of The City Sun newspaper, a defunct weekly once on the must-read list of many black New Yorkers, died in Brooklyn on Monday. He was 74 years old. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Cooper left a permanent imp
 Bishop John R. McGann, who led the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre for more than 20 years, died yesterday at Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre. He was 77 and had been hospitalized for the past week and a half, said Joanne Novarro, a spokeswoman for the diocese. Bis
 Eugene M. Ezersky, an expert on outdoor and environmental education who was involved in programs to foster gardening and greenery in New York City, died on Jan. 18 at a hospital in Westchester County. He was 75 and lived in Roslyn, N.Y. He had a long illness, his family said.       
 Michael P. Hammond, a composer and music expert who was confirmed as the new chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts last month, died yesterday at his temporary residence in Washington. He was 69. Mr. Hammond died of what appeared to be natural causes, said Mark Weinberg, th
 CHRISTMAS-Walter. Died January 26, 2002, at age 83. Beloved husband of June. Devoted father of Vincent, Rachel, and Gordon. Caring father-in-law of Karlton and Lisa. Adored grandfather of Shamsa, Romare, Miles, and Khari. After many years in corporate and nonprofit public relations, he reti
 CUSHING-Bryant. Died suddenly in New York on January 26, 2002, and will be deeply missed by family and friends. He established a successful consulting practice, Cushing & Cushing of CA. with clients such as Boeing, Maersk, and The Commone Commission, which addressed racial unrest in Los Ang
 DRAPKIN - Arnold, M.D. We mourn the untimely death of a man whose golden hands found breast cancer before the mammogram (the sonogram he ordered confirmed his skills) and whose wonderful capacity to listen and care was unique. He said that when you enter your seventies, you enter a minefiel
 FRACCHIA-Alfred Andrew, M.D. On January 27, 2002, after a long illness. A nationally recognized surgical oncologist with an expertise in breast cancer, he practiced at Memorial Hospital Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center for approximately 50 years. A native New Yorker, he completed his undergrad
 JOY-Thomas G. A Miami and New York resident died January 27, 2002. He retired from International Flavors and Fragrance as Senior Vice-President. Past member of the Regional Whist Club of NY. Thomas was on the Board of Adopt-a-Pet. Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated 10:30 AM Thursda
 LANDES-Robert N. January 25, 2002. Of New York City and Naples, FL. Beloved husband of Phyllis Markman Landes. Loving father of Jeffrey Mark Landes, Kathy Braddock and Lucy Harrop. Dear father-in-law of Mark D. Harrop and Andrea C. Landes. Cherished grandfather of Philip Wildman Braddock. C
 LAPSLEY-John Willard. Died January 26, 2002, following a prolonged illness. He is survived by his wife, Hope Whitney Lapsley; a daughter, Adelaide Mulry of Glen Cove, NY; two sons, Howard of Needham, MA, and Robert of Seattle, WA, and three sisters, Marion Schwarz of New York, NY, Nina Alex
 McCOLLUM-H.W. The Board of Directors and Officers of Amerada Hess Corporation express their deep sorrow and sense of loss on the death of their esteemed colleague and close friend, H.W. McCollum. Mr. McCollum's leadership as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of A
 MIZERIK-Joel, tragically on January 22, 2002. Joel was a self-employed decorator who lived in Manhattan and later in Yonkers. Survivors include his father, Frank; his sister and her husband, Gwen and Leo Penzine; his brother, Frank Jr.; nieces and nephews, Christina and Maurizio Nicolelli, 
 PFEFFER-Arnold Z., MD. On Jan. 27, 2002, at age 86. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Margaret and Zachary. Cherished brother-in-law, uncle and great uncle. Services today 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 81st Street and Madison Avenue, NYC. Contributions in his memory may be made 
 ROGERS-Andrew Y. Age 90, died on Sunday, January 27, 2002, in Scarborough, ME. He was born in Madison, NJ on January 28, 1911. Educated at Phillips Academy, Yale, and the Yale Law/Harvard Business School program, he was a partner for more than 60 years at the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardw
 SCHILLER-Carl, M.D. The medical staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Carl Schiller. Dr. Schiller was affiliated with Maimonides Medical Center for over 50 years in the Department of Surgery. In 1952, he set up the service of Plastic Surgery and served
 SPIELMAN-William. Beloved son of Rose, adored husband of BetteAnn, cherished father of Jayne and Stephen Baumgarten, Rachel and Eric Ceder, Dodi & Jonathan Spielman, grandfather of Hannah, Sarah, Sam, Talia, Ethan, Micah, Jonah, and Ava, loving brother of Stanley. Vice President of Independ
 Bishop John R. McGann, who led the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre, N.Y., for more than 20 years, died yesterday in Rockville Centre. He was 77. He had been hospitalized at Mercy Medical Center for the last week and a half. He died of aplastic anemia, said Joanne Novarro,
 Joshua L. Miner, a former boarding school dean who introduced the rugged learning experiences of Outward Bound to the United States, died Tuesday at his home in Andover, Mass. He was 81. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Miner encountered the Outward Bound 
 FISHER-Robert P. Of Scarsdale, NY and New Suffolk, NY died peacefully on January 22 at the age of 78 due to leukemia. He was for many years the President of George F. Fisher Inc, a silk yarn company, and was the President of two leading silk trade groups the American Silk Council and the In
 FRIEDHEIM-Albert. Fighter for peace and justice, died January 30 at Calvary Hospital. Survived by his wife Esther Surovell, son Alan and daughter-in-law Ruth, daughter Sandra Lee and son-in-law Bill Fisher.       
 GILMARTIN-John P. ''Jack'', 70. Died at home in Belmar, NJ,. Jan. 29, 2002. He was a member of the NY Stock Exchange and a Sr. Floor Broker, retired from Morgan Keegan in 1999. He worked for 51 years on the floor of the Exchange. Born in Brooklyn and was a member of the JINX Club. Beloved f
 GUINNESS-Murtogh D. Died January 30th, 2002 in his home in New York City at age 88. He is survived by his sister Grania, Dowager Marchioness of Normandy, and sixteen nieces and nephews. A collector and longtime benefactor of the arts, he was a former President of the Music Box Society. Fune
 HAMMOND-Michael P. The Purchase College community mourns the passing of Michael P. Hammond, an extraordinary Renaissance man who left an indelible mark at Purchase College State University of New York as a founding faculty member of the College and its Conservatory of Music. He was Presiden
 LAPSLEY-Jack. The trustees and staff of the American Scandinavian Foundation mourn the passing of its Treasurer, John W. Lapsley, who had served as an Executive Trustee since 1989. The Foundation is grateful for his long-standing commitment and support. To his wife, Hope, and his entire fam
 LEIB-Robert. Beloved father of Jeffrey and Patricia Leib, Gregory and Diane Leib, and Andrea and Kenneth Gold. Loving grandfather of Michael, Sharon, Ginger, Steven, Larry and Jessica. Services Friday, February 1, 2002, 12:45PM at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I.      
 McELWAIN-Jack White, M.D. Of Huntington, formerly of Muttontown, N.Y., on January 30, 2002 in his 80th year. Beloved husband of Ruth (Kelly). Dearly loved father of Valerie Flynn and Donna McElwain Helder. Cherished grandfather of Jay Flynn. Devoted brother of Dorothy Will and loving uncle 
 McEVILLY-William. Of New Rochelle, NY died on January 29, 2002 at home. He worked as a producer for WOR-Radio ''Rambling with Gambling'' in NYC for 43 years before retiring in 1992. He was a member of Wykagyl C.C. in New Rochelle and served in the Army from 1945-47. He is survived by his si
 OLSHIN-Dr. Seymour. Beloved husband of Sally (nee Weinberger). Cherished and inspirational father of Joshua, Elizabeth (Harry Mendell), Jennifer and Rebecca. Services today, 12:15PM ''Sinai Chapels'', 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows, NY. OLSHIN-Seymour. Great Neck Sy
 ROGERS-Andrew Y. Age 90, died on Sunday, January 27, 2002, in Scarborough, ME. He was born in Madison, NJ on January 28, 1911. Educated at Phillips Academy, Yale, and the Yale Law/Harvard Business School program, he was a partner for more than 60 years at the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardw
 SCHWARTZ-Irving. On Jan. 29, of North Miami Beach, FL at age 88. He leaves behind a loving family and many friends. Funeral service today at 12 noon, Schwartz BrosJeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd at 76 Rd, Forest Hills, NY.       
 SPIELMAN-William. Bill's life recalls the Rabbinic story of a king who had a beautiful diamond. But it had a scratch, which no one could eradicate, until a craftsman converted the scratch into the stem of a rose. Bill's life also was like a rose, becoming more beautiful as he enriched all o
 WEINBERG-Gerald. Born February 16, 1930. Died January 29, 2002. A graduate of Brooklyn College and the New York University School of Law, Class of 1954. For over 45 years a practicing attorney in New York City and Albany. Mr. Weinberg made his permanent home in East Chatham, New York in 196
 WYLER-Wilfred. Died January 29, 2002 at age 93, after a long illness. Survived by his wife of 63 years, Marjorie, his daughters, Ruth W. Messinger and Dr. Barbara W. Gold, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Founder in 1937 and senior partner of Wilfred Wyler and Company, CPAs.
