 Albert Hakim, a businessman who wove an intricate web of Swiss bank accounts and dummy corporations in the Iran-contra arms-for-hostages deal, died on Friday in Inchon, South Korea. He was 66. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Hakim had moved t
 Charlie Tolar, the star fullback for the Houston Oilers of the old American Football League who was known as the Human Bowling Ball for charging at massive linemen on his 5-foot-6 frame, died on Monday in Houston. He was 65. The cause was cancer, according to Northwestern State Univ
 BLAINE-Graham B. Jr., M.D., 84, of Cambridge, MA., April 7. He leaves his wife Sandra Lovell Blaine, a sister Lorna Halper; three daughters Christine Blaine, Victoria Blaine-Wallace and Lily Outerbridge; two stepchildren, Lexy Lovell and Douglas Lovell and eight grandchildren. A memorial se
 DISHMAN-Arthur, M.D. On April 28, 2003. Associated with Lenox Hill, NYU, Beth Israel, Eye & Ear Infirmary and Bellevue for many years. Also served as Bloomingdale Stores Chief Physician in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Aida. Services Thursday 11AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65th St. 
 FULTON-James F. Cherished husband of Priscilla. Loving father. Wonderful grandfather. Sweet Brother. Good friend. There are no words to describe how much we will miss him. Courageous, creative, kind and loving. A gentleman. It was a privilege to love him and be loved by him. In lieu of flow
 GLOWATSKY-Edward. Died on April 27th, in Richmond, VA. He was 77. Edward was the beloved husband of the late Toby (Fisch). He lived in East Brunswick, NJ. He was a devoted father of Andrew and Loren, and grandfather of five granddaughters. Surviving family include many loving cousins, siste
 HOCHSTIM - Theodore S. (Ted). Passed away suddenly on April 29, 2003 at home in Dallas. He is survived by his wife, Iva, children, David and Michelle Hochstim, Betsy and Rick Fijolek, Nancy and Michael Goldberg and seven grandchildren. Born July 7, 1927, attended Townsend Harris, graduated 
 KELLY-John M. My dear brother died April 28, 2003 at age 51. His funeral will take place Friday, May 2, 10:30AM in Saint Bartholomew's Church, Park Ave at 51 St., N.Y.C. Against the terrible paralysis of the disease, John opposed a beautiful cheerfulness, a foretaste of Heaven. ''In balance
 LEVER-Harold M., of Boynton Beach, FL on April 29, 2003. Beloved husband of Carol. Devoted father of David (Lisa) and Jeffrey. Loving grandfather of Allison. Cherished son-in-law of Henrietta Margolis. He will be in our hearts & memories forever. We will miss you dearly.       
 MARKS-Edwin. The Board of Governors and Staff of the Museum of Arts & Design mourns the passing of Edwin Marks, a dear and longtime friend of the museum. Our thoughts are with his wife, Nancy Marks, at this time.       
 RUBIN-Gary. The Officers and the Board of Trustees of the Solomon Schechter School of Queens mourn the death of Gary Rubin, husband and valued partner of Sheila Rubin, longtime member of the school's Board of Trustees and Board of Education. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children Ar
 SHIELDS - Frank. Founder and guiding spirit of Power Ten New York, Frank is mourned by the rowing community worldwide. His dedication and passion for the sport set the benchmark for athletes at all levels, and will be truly missed. To his wife, Didi, and the rest of his family, we express o
 SIGMAN-Samuel, age 89, of Wantagh, L.I., on April 27, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Shirley Sigman. Devoted father of Elizabeth E. Kelly and Alfred H. Sigman. Fond father-in-law of Terry Kelly and Patricia Sigman. Cherished grandfather of Mei, Molly and Ian. Loving grandfather-in-law of
 STONE-Peter. The American Musicals Project at The New-York Historical Society mourns the loss of its Advisory Board member and friend, Peter Stone, who brought his experience, charm and warmth to our audiences and teachers. He will be sorely missed. Alan Levenstein, Chair, AMP Kenneth T. Ja
 Dr. Jeff Schell, a Belgian microbiologist who developed some of the first procedures for introducing artificial genes into plants to increase their hardiness and improve their ability to grow, died at his home in Brussels on April 17. He was 67. The cause was progressive supranuclea
 Paul Moore Jr., the retired Episcopal bishop of New York who for more than a decade was the most formidable liberal Christian voice in the city, died yesterday at home in Greenwich Village. He was 83. In recent months, the bishop had said that he was suffering from lung and brain ca
 GILMAN-Jerry, 93, on May 1, 2003. Husband of the late Zelda. Father of Ricki (Stanley) Stern and the late Alfred. Grandfather of David (Annie) and Judi. Great-grandfather of Nicholas and Anneke. Brother of Harry, Leo, Beryl, Rose and the late Nathan. He will always be remembered.       
 GOLDIN-Frederick Harris, 85, of Palm Beach, New York City and Westhampton Beach. Husband to the late Millie and the late Alan. Survived by loving daughters, Leslie Goldin and Anne Dee Goldin, adored granddaughter, Michaela Goldin, and loving companion, Renee Meisel. He was supportive of all
 HERSKOWITZ-Ira, in San Francisco at his home, on April 28, 2003, age 56, of pancreatic cancer. A Member of the National Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Medicine, he was Professor of Biochemistry and Biophysics at the University of California, San Francisco. Greatly beloved by his fam
 HIGGINS-Robert F., 82, of Rhinebeck, NY. Survivors include his wife, Annette E. (Buonora) Higgins, three children, five grandchildren and one great-grandson. Calling hours Saturday 1 to 4 at the Dapson-Chestney Funeral Home, Rhinebeck, NY. Funeral services on Saturday 4 PM at the funeral ho
 KAYSTON-John. The Board of Directors and staff of JTA, the Global News Service of the Jewish People, note with deep sorrow the passing of John Kayston, beloved Executive Vice President Emeritus of JTA. Kayston retired as EVP in 1984, nearly 50 years after joining JTA. We will remember his w
 KELLY-John M. My dear brother died April 28, 2003 at age 51. His funeral will take place Friday, May 2, 10:30AM in Saint Bartholomew's Church, Park Ave at 51 St., N.Y.C. Against the terrible paralysis of the disease, John opposed a beautiful cheerfulness, a foretaste of Heaven. ''In balance
 MILLER-Elliot. All of us at The League Treatment Center mourn our gentle, good friend Elliot Miller. An artist and sculptor himself, Elliot saw potential within each person regardless of their handicap. With his guidance and vision, he enabled each one to create stunning works of art. Ellio
 STARR-George, 90, of Summit on April 30. Beloved husband of the late Edna. Devoted father and father-in-law of Robby and Bob Friedland and Jennifer and Dave Friedland. Beloved grandfather of Daniel Friedland and Samantha Friedland Yucel and her husband Recai. He devoted his life to the stru
 WOOLFSON-Saul, 90 years. Deeply loved husband of Esther Mary (nee Beck). They had a great life together for forty-three years. He was the first public affairs specialist with the Social Security Administration. During a career that spanned 45 years, he received many awards for excellent qua
 Guy Mountfort, a British ornithologist, nature writer and advertising executive who helped to found the World Wildlife Fund, died on April 23 in Bournemouth on the southern coast of England. He was 97. In 1961, Mr. Mountfort created the World Wildlife Fund with three other distingui
 Dr. Ira Herskowitz, a geneticist who advanced the understanding of the way cells differentiate and a pioneer in the effort to learn how genetic differences among people influence the effectiveness of drugs, died on Monday at his home in San Francisco. He was 56. The cause was pancre
 CALDER-Kenneth. The faculty of the NYU Psychoanalytic Institute and the members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourn the passing of Kenneth Calder, our esteemed teacher and colleague. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Robert Fischel, MD Director, NYU PI Charl
 LEMMONS-Clifford D. Died on April 30, 2003 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He loved New York City and will be missed by family and friends.       
 MOORE-The Rt. Rev. Paul, Jr. The Pilgrims of the U.S. are deeply saddened by the death of their distinguished member and vice president who was for 17 years Episcopal Bishop of New York, a diocese of 203 congregations in ten counties. Here and earlier, in Jersey City, Indianapolis and Washi
 O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The third anniversary of his death, ''God writes straight with crooked lines.'' Miss your meaningful homilies. Margaret Mary McDermott       
 Richard J. Sinnott, the last municipal official empowered to ban wickedness in Boston, died on Wednesday at his home in Hyde Park, Mass. He was 76. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his son Joseph said. He had had heart attacks in the past. For two decades, starting in 
 Allan Sack, a pioneering speed-reading educator who taught fast ways to absorb information from the printed page well before Evelyn Wood became a franchised household name, died last Sunday in San Diego. He was 88 and had lived in San Diego since 1990. Mr. Sack worked in adult readi
 Frank Manuel, an intellectual historian with a particular interest in the history of utopian ideas, died on April 23 at his home in Boston. He was 92. Dr. Manuel spent most of his teaching life at Brandeis University and New York University. He also held visiting professorships at s
 Frank P. Smeal, a municipal bond expert who became a principal adviser during the New York City fiscal crisis of the 1970's, died on April 8 at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 84. Mr. Smeal worked on Wall Street for 38 years. The bulk of his career -- 30 years -- was spent at the Mo
 Fred J. Cook, a freelance investigative reporter who wrote exposés of the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and American corporations and who was involved in a landmark Supreme Court case affirming the regulation that broadcasters must serve the public interest, died on April 4 at his home in Interlaken,
 James Franklin Fulton, an industrial designer and former board chairman of the Pratt Institute, died on Tuesday at his home in Charlestown, R.I. He was 73 and had lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y., until four years ago. The cause was brain cancer, his family said. Mr. Fulton was the
 Lynn Chadwick, a British sculptor whose expressionistic, figurative works in welded iron and bronze earned him international acclaim, died on April 25 at his home in Lypiatt Park in Stroud, Gloucestershire. He was 88. Mr. Chadwick came of age as an artist after World War II,
 Michael Jendrzejczyk, a human rights expert whose advocacy on behalf of victims in Asian nations made him an unlikely power broker in Washington, died on Thursday. He was 53 and lived in Tacoma Park, Md. He died after collapsing during a walk near his office in Washington, his wife,
 ASKER-Gunnar. The Board and staff of Young Audiences/New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Gunnar Asker, beloved husband of Emeritus Board Member, past President and longtime arts education advocate, Louise Kjellstrom Asker. Gunnar's warmth, generosity and passion for learning will
 BAROUCH-Herman N. Died May 1, 2003, age 86. Beloved husband to Gloria and beloved husband to the late Edna. Beloved son of Anna and Nissim. Beloved brother of Millie, Lucy and the late Manny. Proud father of Norman (Laurie), Dennis and Andi (Steve); step-father to Laurie (Jeff). Proud grand
 DREW-Dr. Joseph W. On May 2, 2003. Esteemed professor and former academic vice president of New Jersey City University. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Cregan). Loving father of Katie. Dear brother of James and Margaret McCormack. Beloved uncle to many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grand-ne
 EVERS-Frank Edward. 76, of Virginia Beach and formerly of Darien, CT, died April 25, 2003. Born in Chicago, IL, April 19, 1927, he was the son of the late Arthur and Madge Evers. Frank was a Navy World War II veteran. He graduated from Columbia University, NY and was a member of Theta Tau. 
 JENDRZEJCZYK-Mike. The board and the staff of Human Rights in China deeply regret the tragic loss of Mike Jendrzejczyk to his family and to the human rights community.       
 KANE - William. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KAPLAN-Abraham. On May 2, 2003, at the age of 84. Beloved husband of Ruth (nee Gluck), loving father of Ronnie and her husband Antonio Estadella, and Harvey and his wife Barbara Kaplan. Devoted grandfather of Gabriel, Emily, and Mia Estadella, and Dana and Jesse Kaplan. Dear brother of Seym
 KOHL-G. Harry. On May 2, 2003, in his 79th year. Husband of Marjatta, father of George and Russell, fatherin-law of Veronica and Beth, grandfather of Harry, Max, Charlotte, Celia, Helena and Christopher. A Memorial Mass will be held on Wednesday, May 7, at St. Patrick's Church, 25 Cox Ave, 
 KOTITE-Albert, 86, of Manhattan, on May 1, 2003. Loving husband for 51 years of Antoinette. Devoted father of Edward, Albert, Peter, Deborah and Toni. Beloved grandfather of Edward, Elizabeth, P.J., Christopher, Aaron, John, Harrison and Topper. A leading member of New York City's printing 
 MEYER-Howard R. On May 2, 2003, at age 65. Loving father of Rachel Meyer, Jennifer Cunningham and Claudia Meyer. Dear grandfather of Emma and Kate. Beloved brother of Virginia O'Klock and uncle of Elizabeth, Jacqueline and Virginia. Also survived by his law partner Louis Diaz. Howard gradua
 MOORE-Paul, Jr., 83, bishop, activist, father of Honor, Paul, Adelia, Rosemary, George, Marian, Daniel, Susanna and Patience, brother to William H. Moore, and grandfather of 19, died May 1st, 2003 at home in NYC. Funeral and requiem mass to celebrate his life and work at the Cathedral of St
 NOBLE-Lee, 87, born Edwin Burchell, husband of the late Patricia Crowley, died April 30, 2003 in Orlando, FL. One of the finest magicians of the twentieth century, former president of The Harry Roz Ring of the International Brotherhood of Magicians, lifetime member of the Society of America
 O'CONNOR-Francis X., of Los Altos, CA, died April 27, 2003. Born and raised in Brooklyn, NY, Mr. O'Connor lived in Middletown, NJ before moving to California in 1971. A WW II veteran, he graduated from Pace University, NY and retired as Assistant Controller of Stauffer Chemical Co. after 30
 TOFFEL-Harry, 91, of Lawrence, NY and Palm Beach, FL. passed away on May 1, 2003. Preceded in death by his beloved wife Hattie, he is survived by his daughter Sandra Kaiser, grandsons Andrew and Kenneth, great-grandchildren Adam, Steven, Jordan, Margot and Katie and sister Yetta Epstein. A 
 WASSERSTEIN-Morris W. May 2, 2003. Beloved husband of Lola, loving father of Georgette, Bruce, Wendy and the late Sandra, cherished grandfather of Tajlei, Jenifer, Melissa, Samantha, Pamela, Oliver, Ben, Scoop, Maxwell, Jack, Lucy Jane, Dash and great-grandfather of Theo; brother of Joseph.
 WHITE - F. King. The Amateur Comedy Club notes with sorrow the passing of esteemed Retired Member F. King White. Elected in 1964, he was a long time active participant and boon companion. He is much missed.       
 Sir William Gunn, an Australian sheep farmer and businessman who generated a wool boom in his country and was the father of the Woolmark symbol, died on April 17 in Brisbane, Australia. He was 89 and lived in Goondiwindi, a town about 200 miles west of Brisbane. He was knighted in 1
 Fernand Fonssagrives, a photographer known for his elegant pictures of his first wife, the noted model Lisa Fonssagrives, and his later pictures of female nudes with patterns of light on their skin, died on April 23 in Little Rock, Ark. He was 93 and lived in Little Rock. Mr. Fonssa
 DAVIS-Jerry A. May 2, 2003 at his home in Austin, Texas, age 56. Longtime New York City resident. Former managing principal of HOK/NY and member of HOK Board of Directors. Fellow of the American Institute of Architects. Past president AIA New York City Chapter. Sustaining member of the Muni
 GUFF-Arthur. Patient, caring, deeply loved husband of Muriel Seltzer, adored godfather of Susan Simon Malach and step-father of Dr. Barbara J. Seltzer. The embodiment of selflessness, as reflected in his 38 year career as a criminal attorney with the Legal Aid Society of NYC, where he retir
 HALE-Partrick Sinclair. Died May 3, 2003, in NYC, as a result of a hit-and-run automobile accident. Mr. Hale was 29 years old and a student at Columbia Graduate School of Business in NYC. A native of Nashville, Mr. Hale was the son of R. Walter Hale III, retired executive vice-president of 
 KNIGHT - Howard Atwood (Woody). 61, of New Canaan, CT, and Stowe, VT, died suddenly on May 1st at his home in Connecticut. Born 1942 in Providence, RI, he was the son of the late Louise Atwood and Richard Brayton Knight, and brother of James Knight of Lake Forest, IL, and the late Richard D
 McCABE-Michael Oliver. 23, passed away on Tuesday, April 29, 2003. Deeply loved by his mother Eleanor Brickner McCabe, his father and step-mother Ross and Kathleen McCabe, and his brother Samuel and his sister Julie. He will be remembered but greatly missed. His passing is sadly acknowledge
 STORK-Dr. Gerard J. A former radiologist who practiced medicine in Queens, New York for 43 years and was one of the first practitioners of radiation for the treatment of cancer, died on Friday, May 2, 2003, at the Memorial Hospital at Easton. He was 88. Born in Maspeth, New York in 1914, Dr
 WELLER-Ira S. May 3, 2003. Beloved husband of Julie. Loving father of Sherry Bogen, Howard (Joan) Weller, Laurence Weller and grandson Dylan. Stepfather of John Nguyen. Devoted brother of Edith (Aaron) Morris. Adored uncle to Richard, Toby, Adrienne and Debbie. WWII veteran and former Presi
 ASKER-Gunnar C.F., 90, on April 28. He is survived by his wife Louise Kjellstrom-Asker of New York city; his son Robert Asker of Trenton, NJ; his daughter Suzanne Norman and son-in-law Robert Norman of Lancaster, VA; his grandson Lee Norman of Richmond, VA; his grandson Steven Norman of Bay
 FEINER - Benjamin, died April 28 at age 91. He will be deeply missed by his children, Larry and Lisa Feiner; by his son-in-law and friend, Barry Commoner; by his brother, Isaac Feiner; by his nieces and nephews, Marc & Roberta Levine, Steve & Paul Brand, and Mauro Zulli; and by his aide and
 GOLDSTEIN-Hartley J., 83, died May 5, 2003. Born in New York City, July 12, 1920. Attended Columbia Grammar School and a graduate of the University of Michigan, 1941. LCDR U.S. Navy until 1945. Former President of Scout Tex, Inc. Beloved husband of Ellen, cherished father of Hartley Jr., Pa
 MILLER-Elliot H., Sculptor and art therapist, died in New York City on April 30, at 60, of complications from heart surgery. Elliot maintained a studio in Brooklyn and his work appeared in 50 exhibitions worldwide during a 40 year career. His kind and gentle nature was most evident in his w
 MOORE-Bishop Paul. Dear friend of fifty years, inspiration for inner-city urban work, Chairman of the Board of Episcopal Mission Society from 1972-1985, champion of poor people, the homeless and all who have been pushed away from the mainstream of American life. Requiem-Cathedral St. John t
 ROSSETTIE-Robert W. of Morris Township, NJ died on Friday, May 2, 2003. Beloved husband of Patrice (nee Gentsch). Loving father of Christine, Marie and Katherine Rossettie. Caring son of Gerald and the late Mary Elizabeth Rossettie. He had seven brothers and two sisters. Visitation will be 
 ULLMANN-Anthony Richard (Tony), on May 4, 2003 at age 75. Beloved husband of Gladys, devoted father of Robert and Michael, and father-in-law to Patricia and Lisa. Adored grandfather of Stephanie, Matthew, Katie, Emily, David and Lauren. Cherished brother of Jane Goldblatt and the late Andre
 WEISBERG - Laurence, 50, died March 13, 2003. Surrealist poet, occasional resident of New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oaxaca and Sulawesi. Published works include ''The Glacial Blush,'' ''Phantomatic.'' Uncompromising poet of life, his conversation and knowledge were luminous, generou
 WEISS-Paul C. Beloved son, nephew, uncle, grandson, brother and cousin. He will be dearly missed.       
 ZOBA-Eugene Richard, on May 2, 2003 at age 66. Loving son of Julia Augustyniak. Dear brother of Nelson and the late William Zoba. Devoted brother-in-law of Chris Zoba. Also survived by his nephews, Bruce, Scott and Greg. Services Wednesday, May 7th, 5 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison 
 Walter Sisulu, one of Nelson Mandela's earliest political mentors and his closest collaborator for half a century in the campaign against South Africa's racist political order, died yesterday in Johannesburg. He was 90. Mr. Sisulu's political career was less celebrated than Mr. Mand
 Christopher Fairfield Edley, president emeritus of the United Negro College Fund, who built upon its slogan, ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste,'' to raise more than $700 million to help aspiring students, died on Monday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 75. The apparent c
 George Kozmetsky, co-founder of the conglomerate Teledyne and a lifelong educator who used his work and philanthropy to bring industry and academia closer together, died last Wednesday in Austin, Tex. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, his son, Gregory, said. Over the 
 Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad, spiritual leader of the evangelical Ahmadiyya Muslim sect, which seeks to reinterpret Islamic doctrine in the light of the modern age, died on April 23 in London, where he had lived since fleeing Pakistan in 1984. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, h
 ACKERMAN-Pearl. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Dr. Jacob Ackerman on the loss of his beloved mother. A Silver Founder of the medical center together with his late wife Elaine, herself an active member of the National Woman's Division, Dr. Ackerman learned the highest values and ethi
 BERKOWITZ-Mortimer Jr. Age 87, died on May 5, 2003 at his home in New York City. Beloved husband of Marjory for more than 50 years and father of Hugh J. Freund and Betsy F. Perry, both of New York City, John Berkowitz (River) of Putney, VT., and Mortimer Berkowitz III (Amelia) of New York C
 EDELBAUM-Saul. Died May 4, 2003, at age 95. He was a graduate of Yale University School of Architecture '33, lived and practiced in New York City and also lived in Katonah, New York. In 2000 he moved to Meadow Lakes, in Hightstown, New Jersey. He is survived by his wife of 45 years, Hedda H
 ESHAGHIAN-E. (Ike). The Yeshiva University family expresses deep sorrow upon the passing of the beloved husband of Marokh, father of Tanaz, and brother of Dr. Massoud Jack (and May) Eshaghian, Dr. Joseph (and Dr. Faye) Eshaghian, Helen (and Mehdi) Iloulian, and David (and Simone) Eshaghian,
 GOLDSTEIN-Hartley J. We have lost a dear friend, very much admired by his associates. May he rest in eternal peace. Our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Arthur Lubell Laurence Reinlieb GOLDSTEIN-Hartley J. The Directors and Shareholders of Dune Alpin Farm Corp mourn the loss of our
 GOODBODY-Garrett, 57, of New York City and Sharon, CT, died suddenly of cardiac arrhythmia on May 2, 2003. He is survived by his spouse, Ann Goodbody. His parents were Garrett Goodbody Sr., a partner in Goodbody & Co., and Bambie McKenna Goodbody of Madison, New Jersey. He was a graduate of
 KAPLAN - Abraham. The members and staff of Elmwood Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed longtime member and friend Abe Kaplan. We wish to extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Ruth, and his daughter, Ronnie, and son, Harvey.       
 KOTITE-Albert, 86, of Manhattan, on May 1, 2003. Loving husband for 51 years of Antoinette. Devoted father of Edward, Albert, Peter, Deborah and Toni. Beloved grandfather of Edward, Elizabeth, P.J., Christopher, Aaron, John, Harrison and Topper. A leading member of New York City's printing 
 LEDERMAN - Eugene. Be loved husband for 68 years of Muriel. Devoted father of Mark (Carol), Frank (Diane) and Ellen. Loving grandfather of Amy and Jeffrey; Judy and Ken, Dani and Ricki. Adoring great-grandfather of Joshua, Madison, Brooke, Jacqueline and Daniel. Services Wednesday, 10 A.M. 
 MALONEY-William Gerard. Investment banker, philanthropist of New Canaan, CT died on May 5, 2003. Survived by two sons, William J. Maloney of Ft. Meyers, FL and Stephen G. Maloney of Stamford, CT, a daughter, Elizabeth A. Coletti of Newtown, CT and five grandchildren. He was predeceased by h
 MELTZER-Marvin, of Alexandria, VA, on May 5, 2003 in Manhattan. Unionist, Democrat, health care reformer, friend and heart of his family. Believed that a good cause need not be a lost cause and that loud was no substitute for right. We will surely miss you, Mickey. Elizabeth, loving wife of
 SCHWEITZER-Michael. Founder and President of The RAM Group. It is with incredible sadness that we share the news of Michael's passing on May 4, 2003. Dear brother of Alan Schweitzer of New York, nephew of Irving Schweitzer of Texas, lifelong friend of David Klein of Colorado, and a true lea
 WEISS-Paul C. Beloved son, nephew, uncle, grandson, brother and cousin. He will be dearly missed.       
 Mohammed Dib, an award-winning Algerian novelist and poet who wrote in French, the language in which he had learned to read as a child, died on Friday at his home outside Paris. He was 82. He had suffered from diabetes, Le Monde reported in Paris. Mr. Dib moved from Algeria 
 BERKOWITZ-Mortimer Jr. Age 87, died on May 5, 2003 at his home in New York City. Beloved husband of Marjory for more than 50 years and father of Hugh J. Freund and Betsy F. Perry, both of New York City, John Berkowitz (River) of Putney, VT., and Mortimer Berkowitz III (Amelia) of New York C
 DUNCAN - Jiman H., 58, teacher, coach, singer, minister of music and theatrical director died on April 16 in Dover-Foxcroft, Maine, after a lengthy illness. Mr. Duncan had been a teacher at the Buckley School in New York City and the Minister of Music at Grace Episcopal Church in Hastings-o
 JOEL-Martin J. Jr. Beloved husband of Sylvia Joel and the late Dolores Joel. Died May 6 at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Loving father of Patricia (Howard Samuels) and Amy Joel, devoted grandfather of Dara and Andrew, caring brother of Alyse Klufer (Robert). Funeral services Sunday, May 11, a
 MALONEY-William G. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of William Maloney, former member of the Board of Trustees. Consumate Christian gentleman, passionate about the mission of the College, Bill brought his faith, wisdom and generosity to the College and we 
 MILLER-Daniel G., MD. On May 7, 2003. Pioneer in cancer research, Emeritus Professor of Medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College of Cornell University, Past President of Strang Cancer Prevention Center and formerly Chief of the Lymphoma Clinic at Memorial Hospital. Beloved husband of Helen
 PUGH-Clarence S. Playbill mourns the loss of its esteemed colleague and valued friend of over 40 years, Clarence S. Pugh, who began working for the company in February 1961 and retired last year. Mr. Pugh died May 5, 2003 age 63, and is survived by his wife, Mildred; his children, Diane, Be
 William J. Goode, a sociologist who did research on family life, marriage and divorce, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 85 and had homes in East Hampton, N.Y.; Cambridge, Mass.; and Fairfax, Va. The cause was a blood clot, said his wife, Lenore J. Weitzman, a Clarence J. Robinso
 George Morrow, a mathematician and programmer who was a member of a group of unorthodox hobbyists who were instrumental in creating the personal computer industry, died at his home in San Mateo, Calif., on Wednesday. He was 69 and had suffered from aplastic anemia for the last year,
 Olivier Long, a Swiss diplomat who helped keep the Western world moving toward freer trade in the 1970's despite protectionist pressures brought on by soaring oil prices, inflation and recession, died on March 19 in Geneva, according to the Web site of the World Trade Organization. He was 8
 BEDOR - George. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member George Bedor. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President       
 BLACK-Witherbee Jr., 96, of Vero Beach, FL, died May 6, 2003, at his residence. He was born July 30, 1906, in Pelham Manor, NY, the son of Witherbee and Marion C. Black. Mr. Black was the fourth generation of his family in the old firm of Black, Starr and Frost in New York City. During WWII
 JOEL-Martin J. Jr. Beloved husband of Sylvia Joel and the late Dolores Joel. Died May 6 at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Loving father of Patricia (Howard Samuels) and Amy Joel, devoted grandfather of Dara and Andrew, caring brother of Alyse Klufer (Robert). Funeral services Sunday, May 11, a
 MILLER-Dr. Daniel G. The Board of Trustees, staff, and worldwide family of the Israel Cancer Research Fund (ICRF) express profound sorrow at the passing of Dr. Daniel G. Miller, founder of ICRF, eminent scientist, distinguished pioneer in cancer research, and caring physician. Through his c
 MOORE-Paul, Jr., 83, bishop, activist, father of Honor, Paul, Adelia, Rosemary, George, Marian, Daniel, Susanna and Patience, brother to William H. Moore, and grandfather of 19, died May 1st, 2003 at home in NYC. Funeral and requiem mass to celebrate his life and work at the Cathedral of St
 O'CALLAHAN-Roger J. 55, died May 6, 2003 in New Haven, CT. He was the fiancee of Deborah Devylder. Father of Caitlin O'Callahan, of Woodbridge, CT, brother of James O'Callahan Jr., of Brooklyn, Mary O'Callahan of the Bronx and John O'Callahan of Brattleboro, VT. Born in Bronx, NY he was the
 RUBIN-David W. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with deep sadness the passing of our former Senior Vice President and Director of our Concert and Artist Department, David W. Rubin, on May 6 in NYC at the age of 83. Mr. Rubin began his career at Steinway & Sons in 1964 at the invitation of
 Bob Walter, a prominent horse breeder whose champion Cavonnier finished second in the 1996 Kentucky Derby, died on Wednesday at his home in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 86. The cause was acute leukemia, his family said. In 1996 Cavonnier, who had won the Santa Anita Derby, ran 
 David W. Rubin, a longtime Steinway & Sons executive whose deep love of the piano compelled him to spend his career prodding talented musicians to try even harder as he matched them with their concert instruments, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 83. He had lung cancer, his frie
 Jack Gelber, whose play ''The Connection,'' with its raw, graphic depiction of the dead-end life of drug addicts, sent a shock wave through contemporary American theater, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, a 
 EDLEY-Christopher F. International House notes with sadness the passing of Christopher F. Edley, who served with distinction as a member of the Board of Trustees from 1975 until 1986. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his family. Paul A. Volcker, Chairman Donald L. Cuneo, President     
 JOEL-Martin J. Jr. Beloved husband of Sylvia Joel and the late Dolores Joel. Died May 6 at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Loving father of Patricia (Howard Samuels) and Amy Joel, devoted grandfather of Dara and Andrew, caring brother of Alyse Klufer (Robert). Funeral services Sunday, May 11, a
 KAPLAN-Dr. Robert I. On May 8, 2003, of Roslyn Estates, LI. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of David and Jonathan. Loving father-in-law of Elayna and Rana. Adored grandfather of Samantha and Jeremy. Services Sunday 11:45 AM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI.
 MOORE-Paul, Jr., 83, bishop, activist, father of Honor, Paul, Adelia, Rosemary, George, Marian, Daniel, Susanna and Patience, brother to William H. Moore, and grandfather of 19, died May 1st, 2003 at home in NYC. Funeral and requiem mass to celebrate his life and work at the Cathedral of St
 RUBIN-David W. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with deep sadness the passing of our former Senior Vice President and Director of our Concert and Artist Department, David W. Rubin, on May 6 in NYC at the age of 83. Mr. Rubin began his career at Steinway & Sons in 1964 at the invitation of
 STEINBERG-Elias. Died at 85 on May 8, 2003 in Nashville. Beloved father of Ronnie and Arthur, brother of Leo, grandfather of Jennifer Levine, David and Peter Steinberg, and Brian and Elizabeth Ames. He was a decorated test-pilot during WW II. He was the manager of the family bakery, and a g
 WEINKRANTZ - Murray H. Deceased on May 8th, 2003. Beloved husband of Gloria. Father to Susan Hill & David Weinkrantz. Proud grandfather to Danielle. Ex-G.I., WWII, founder Westchester United Cerebral Palsy. Graveside services Sunday, 11 AM, Mt. Eden Cemetery, Valhalla, New York. WEI
 BROWN-Robert E. 91, on May 9, 2003. Beloved husband of Joyce F. Loving father of Dr. Joyce Brown McCall and Donna Levy-Wray. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 13, at 1 PM, St. James Chapel of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam and 112th. Contributions in his mem
 FREDA-Vincent J. M.D. The faculty, staff, and students of Columbia University Health Sciences mourn the passing of a highly esteemed and accomplished mentor, colleague, and friend, Dr. Vincent J. Freda. Dr. Freda has been a member of the Columbia community for over five decades, first as a 
 GOODBODY-Garrett, 57, of New York City and Sharon, CT, died suddenly of cardiac arrhythmia on May 2, 2003. He is survived by his spouse, Ann Goodbody. His parents were Garrett Goodbody Sr., a partner in Goodbody & Co., and Bambie McKenna Goodbody of Madison, New Jersey. He was a graduate of
 GOODE-William Josiah. The former Franklin H. Giddings Professor of Sociology at Columbia University, and former President of the American Sociological Association, died unexpectedly on May 4, 2003. The author of 20 books and over 80 articles on a wide range of topics, ranging from ''Religio
 GOREWITZ - Rubin. Artist rights crusader. Died May 7 after long illness. He is survived by children Shalom, Heshi, and Marian and grandchildren Amir, Cali, Doni and Rosa. Contributions can be made to Society for the Advancement of Judaism Synagogue Fund. For details shalom@gorewitz.com     
 KAPLAN-Dr. Robert I. On May 8, 2003, of Roslyn Estates, LI. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of David and Jonathan. Loving father-in-law of Elayna and Rana. Adored grandfather of Samantha and Jeremy. Services Sunday 11:45 AM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI.
 KATCHER-Jerry C., 74, on April 18, 2003. He was a man of the highest caliber and he filled the lives of many with his selflessness, joy of life and love for family and friends. He will be forever in our hearts and greatly missed. He is survived by his wife Zenita, children Scott and Stacey,
 KREEGER-Julius. Died May 9 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Esther Romoff. Cherished father of the late Susan Frances. Beloved brother of Mildred Frank and Nathan Kreeger. Dear uncle of Ellen Mathew and Elizabeth Kreeger Goldman. He will be greatly missed.       
 KROLLAGE-Arthur H. of Scott's Beach, Long Island, a decorated World War II veteran and employee of the New York Times for 37 years, died on May 2, 2003 at the age of 81 after an eight year battle with cancer. Mr. Krollage began his career with the New York Times as a security guard. For 32 
 LENNARD-Jules. With profound sorrow, the Board of Governors and members of Dellwood Country Club, New City, NY, record the passing of our esteemed and longtime member. Since 1960 he was a loyal and dedicated supporter of Dellwood, serving as president, a founder of Dellwood Foundation, Boar
 MATLES-Marc. The law firm of Singer, Block & Matles and its staff regretfully mourns the untimely death of our partner, Marc Matles. Our deepest condolences to Nancy, the children, his father, brother and sister. Irving Singer, Senior Partner       
 MOORE-The Rt. Rev. Paul, Jr. The entire St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our good friend and beloved colleague, The Rt. Rev. Paul Moore, Jr., an ex officio Trus
 RELKIN-Bernard R. Of Bayside, NY, died May 8, 2003, at age 81. Retired Partner and Chief Financial Officer of Kalb Voorhis and Company. Survived by his loving wife Lorraine, sons Jeffrey and Norman, daughters - in - law Carol and Felicia, and grandchildren Sandra, Jonathon, Paul and Emily. 
 ROHN-Dr. Aryeh. The entire family of the East Midwood Jewish Center mourns the passing of this distinguished educator, dynamic leader, and consummate gentleman. For almost four decades he directed the destiny of thousands of our students. His immortality resides in the minds, hearts and sou
 RUBIN-David W. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with deep sadness the passing of our former Senior Vice President and Director of our Concert and Artist Department, David W. Rubin, on May 6 in NYC at the age of 83. Mr. Rubin began his career at Steinway & Sons in 1964 at the invitation of
 SOBEL-Stuart, age 68, died peacefully at home, May 7, 2003. He began his career as a social studies teacher and concluded his profession as supervisor of guidance for the NY Board of Education. A volunteer at the International Center, gourmet cook and antique collector he shared his life wi
 WEISSMAN - Bernice. On May 8, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Stanley. Loving mother of Arlene and Steven and his wife Ana. Devoted grandmother of Alexis and Simone. Graveside service 11am Sunday, May 11, New Montefiore Cemetery.       
 Russell B. Long, who carried the legacy of his powerful Louisiana family through four decades as a United States senator, died in Washington on Friday. He was 84. The cause of death was apparently a heart attack, his family said. The son of Huey P. Long, the legendary populi
 Geoffrey Bardon, the painter and teacher credited with inspiring Australian aborigines to depict their ancient culture in ways that could be shown and sold to the world, died Tuesday in Taree, a coastal town 235 miles north of here where he lived. He was 63. Family members said he h
 Gerrit Henry, an art critic and poet, died on May 1 at his home in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, said John Wells, a friend. Mr. Henry was best known for his widely published writings on art, in which he tended to favor contemporary combinations of tradi
 BERANBAUM - Samuel L., M.D., 88. Beloved husband of Betty for 54 years, loving father of Joan and John, Nancy and David, and John and Nancy, and the proud grandfather of Rebecca, Daniel, Elyssa, Jacob, Joshua, Nina, Julianne, Sarah, Laura, Peter, Daniel and Ross. He was a founding member of
 DeCARLO-Dr. Joseph Dominic. Joseph Dominic DeCarlo, ophthalmologist, died on May 10, 2003. Born in the Bronx on July 8, 1907, he graduated from Manhattan College in 1930, and University of Bologna, Italy, in 1934, where he received a degree in medicine. After interning in Morrisania City Ho
 ERDREICH - Seymour. On May 7, 2003, in Vero Beach, FL. Born 1914, in Selma, AL. Graduated from Maritime College 1936. Served in the Merchant Marines and as a Lt. Commander in the Navy in WWII. Predeceased by his sister Marie. Survived by his wife Shirley, daughter Marjorie and grandson Maxw
 GLASSMAN-Dr. Ephraim. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member Dr. Ephraim Glassman, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Roberta, his sons Lawrence and Edward, daughter Karen and their families. Russell Leavit
 GROSS-Jack. On May 11, 2003, at age 93. Husband of the late Rita B. Gross and Ruth L. Gross; loving father of Stephen H. Gross, Deborah G. Green and the late Jeffrey S. Gross; grandfather of Elizabeth G. McCracken, Richard J. Gross, Barbara G. Guzman, Patricia A. Gross, Wendy S. Gross, Kath
 MARTIN-Herman J. Of New York and Florida died May 9, 2003, at the Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. He was 94 years old. Born March 17, 1909, in New Mork City to Sam and Helen Moskowitz. He was the devoted husband of Jean. Beloved father of Sandra Reis and Barbara Barysh. Son-in-law of 
 MOSS-Robert. Age 36. Of New York City. Passed away after a long illness. He is survived by his parents. For information, ''Gutterman-Musicant,'' 800-522-0588.       
 SCHULMAN-Sol. Of Tamarac, passed away May 9, 2003. Beloved husband of Lenore Diamond Schulman. Cherished father of Larry (Joy) Solomon & Michael Diamond. Grandfather of John & Eric (Risa) Diamond, Lindsay & Michael Solomon. Greatgrandfather of Melissa & Jeffrey Diamond. Sol was an ardent su
 Sam Lacy, a sports reporter for black newspapers for almost 70 years who struggled with the segregation and racial intolerance experienced by the black athletes he covered, died last Thursday morning at a hospital in Washington. He was 99. Since 1943, he had been the sports editor a
 Leonard Michaels, a novelist and short-story writer whose precise, highly literary style illuminated weirdly realistic human predicaments, died on Saturday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 70 and had homes in Italy and Berkeley. The cause was complications from bowel surgery, a friend, Da
 ANGELIDES - Alexander Constantine, M.D., March 16, 1934 to May 11, 2003. Passed away peacefully surrounded by his loving family after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in Berlin, New Hamsphire, to Greek immigrant parents, he was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Amherst College and a graduat
 CYTRYN-Jack, at home in his 87th year. Loving husband and best friend of Helen for over 55 years. Survived by his loving and devoted daughters Joy and Jane Cytryn. Father of Allan Cytryn and grandfather of Steven. Devoted son of the late Avram Menachim and Feiga Mindel Cytryn who perished i
 GLASSMAN-Ephraim, M.D. The Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery at North Shore University Hospital expresses with sorrow the passing of Dr. Ephraim Glassman. Dr. Glassman, former Chief of Cardiology at NYU, and ultimately senior consulting Cardiologist at North Shore University
 GROSS-Jack. On May 11, 2003, at age 93. Husband of the late Rita B. Gross and Ruth L. Gross; loving father of Stephen H. Gross, Deborah G. Green and the late Jeffrey S. Gross; grandfather of Elizabeth G. McCracken, Richard J. Gross, Barbara G. Guzman, Patricia A. Gross, Wendy S. Gross, Kath
 KRIEGSMAN-Jack. The Officers and Directors of the Public Schools Athletic League Memorial Fund regret the untimely passing of our co-director. Jack was a leader in the field of health and physical education. He served as an exemplary Assistant Director of the Public Schools Athletic League 
 MARTIN-Herman J. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Herman J. Martin an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife Jean and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, Pres. Andrew Muhlstock, Secy. MARTIN-Herm
 MAURO-Carmine J. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi MAURO-Carmine. A fine surgeon, a fabulous husband and father, and a
 RUBEN-Fred S. Of White Plains, N.Y. Formerly of Forest Hlls, N.Y. and Mannheim, Germany. Passed away May 11, 2003 at age 93. He served as President and Chairman of Simon Manges and Son, Inc. until his retirement. He was the devoted husband of Ilse, beloved father of Jane Guttman, cherished 
 TAPLIN-Frank E. Jr. It is with tremendous sadness and a profound sense of loss that the officers, directors, managers and staff of The Metropolitan Opera mourn the death of Frank Taplin, a key figure in The Met's history, whose involvement with this house over many years was integral to the
 WITTER-William., age 73, of New York, NY died Sunday, May 11, 2003, at his home after a short illness. Born in San Francisco, California, Mr. Witter has been a New York resident since 1953. He was the principal of William D. Witter, Inc., an investment counseling firm that he founded 26 yea
 Frank Elijah Taplin Jr., a lawyer, arts patron and amateur pianist who as president of the Metropolitan Opera raised a large endowment fund in the 1970's, died on Sunday in Princeton, N.J. He was 87. At his death Mr. Taplin was a trustee emeritus of the Institute for Advanced Study 
 John L. Petrarca, an architect who brought a modern sensibility to the old blocks of TriBeCa in Lower Manhattan, died last Friday at his home there. He was 51. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Sarah C. Bartlett. As a partner at Guenther Petrarca, he created his most
 BERGIN-Thomas P. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Thomas P. Bergin, a Life Member of the Society and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, President Henry F. White Jr., Historian       
 BLACKWELL-James Madison IV. Died May 12 after complications from surgery. A native New Yorker, he was the son of James Madison Blackwell III and Betsy Talbot Blackwell who for 35 years was the Editor-in-Chief of Mademoiselle Magazine. Mr. Blackwell graduated from Harvard in 1952 and then se
 BOBMAN-Martin. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its distinguished member, Mr. Matthew Bobman. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 GROSS-Jack. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Jack Gross, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Devoted to supporting Jewish and humanitarian causes, Jack was a guiding force in the formation of the Bankruptcy and Reor
 O'LEARY-Michael John, of Ft. Pierce, Florida died peacefully on May 12 after a short illness at age 84. Mr. O'Leary was a Public Relations executive with AT&T for more than 30 years until his retirement in 1983. He was educated at Fordham Preparatory School and received degrees from Fordham
 STONE-Louis, Ph.D. Age 77, husband of Lillian Helen Jason Stone, of 590 Field Street, Naugatuck, died Tuesday May 13, 2003. Dr. Stone was born March 24, 1926 in New York City, son of the late Thomas and Esther Frenchman Stone. He graduated from NYU with a BCHE, MS (metallurgy), ENG, Sc, D. 
 TAPLIN-Frank E. Jr. On May 11th, 2003 in Princeton, NJ. A memorial service will be held Sunday, June 8 at 4 PM in the Princeton University Chapel, Princeton. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his name may be made in support of environment, music, education or human rights. TAPLIN
 YANKAUER - Theodore III (Tim), 71. Died on May 11, 2003 after a short battle with brain cancer. Devoted father of Jeff and Stephen. Loving brother of Ellen and adoring grandfather of Sarah. He will be deeply missed by his family and friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory m
 Dave DeBusschere, the Hall of Fame forward whose tenacious defensive play, rebounding prowess and timely scoring helped propel the Knicks to their only two N.B.A. championships, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 62. DeBusschere had a heart attack on a street in Lower Manhattan and
 L. Welch Pogue, a Washington lawyer who helped write the original rules for commercial air travel at the Civil Aeronautics Board, which he headed in the 1940's, died on Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 103. Mr. Pogue was one of the central figures in internati
 Noel Redding, who played bass behind Jimi Hendrix as one of the two Englishmen in the Jimi Hendrix Experience, was found dead on Monday at his home in Clonakilty, Ireland. He was 57. The cause was not yet known, said his manager, Ian Grant. Mr. Redding was recruited to join 
 DeBUSSCHERE-Dave. The Officers and Trustees of the New York Sports Museum & Hall of Fame regret the passing of a charter member of the New York Sports Hall of Fame on May 14, in New York. Bill Shannon, President Jordan Sprechman, Secy DeBUSSCHERE-Dave. The trustees, administration, 
 GROSS-Jack. The Partners and Associates of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan mourn the passing, on Sunday, May 11, 2003, of our distinguished Senior Partner, Jack Gross. His legacy to the Bankruptcy Bar will long be remembered. His mentoring skills fostered the careers of a generation of lawyers wh
 KASTANIS - George. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff at the Hospital for Joint Diseases are deeply saddened by the loss of George Kastanis, devoted father of our good friend and colleague, John N. Kastanis, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Hospital for Join
 STERN-Marvin, M.D. The faculty, staff and students of NYU School of Medicine express their deep regret and sadness on the death of our friend and colleague, Marvin Stern, M.D. Dr. Stern passed away suddenly on May 13th at NYU Medical Center on his way to see patients. Dr. Stern was an outst
 TAPLIN-Frank E. Jr. The trustees and staff of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation mourn the death of our longtime trustee and benefactor Frank Taplin. A member of the Board from 1972 to 1993, Vice Chair for the last six of those years and since then Trustee Emeritus, Frank con
 WITTER-William D. We mourn the passing of our good friend and benefactor Bill Witter who gave us a home in our time of need and was generous with his time and advice. We send our deepest sympathy to our wonderful and steadfast Board President, Inger G. Witter, and to the entire Witter famil
 YING-Dr. Sai Hou on May 7, 2003, at the age of 95. He devoted more than sixty years to his patients, students, and family. He came to the U.S. as a visiting scholar at P.& S. College, Columbia University. Later, he served as a physician at the Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Disease
 Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, a philanthropist and environmentalist who served as United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and was the uncle of Prince Karim Aga Khan IV, current leader of the 20 million Shiite Ismaili Muslims , died on May 12 in Boston, Mass. He was 70. He died in
 Laurence I. Radway, a Dartmouth College professor of government with a zeal for practical politics who walked the length of New Hampshire in his losing 1972 campaign for the United States Senate, died on May 7 in Lebanon, N.H. He was 84. The cause was complications of abdominal surg
 Otto Edelmann, a leading Austrian bass-baritone of the postwar period particularly known for his interpretations of Wagner and Strauss roles, died on Wednesday in Vienna, where he lived. He was 86. Mr. Edelmann had a long association with the Vienna State Opera, where he sang for 30
 CYTRYN-Jack. The Board of Directors of Friends of Israel Disabled Veterans notes with sorrow the passing of Jack Cytryn, former Board member and a great and benevolent friend. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Helen and daughters Janey and Joy. Michael Leichtling, Secretary Fr
 GORDON-Manuel. We note with sorrow the passing of our partner, mentor and friend. Our condolences to his daughter, Bonnie, and her family. We shall miss his guidance. Walter Kaye and Staff of Merchant Factors Corp.       
 MOULTON-Anthony K., 59, of Manhattan, died on May 14th, 2003 after a short illness. Survived by his wife, Arden, children, Anthony K. Moulton, Jr. and Tracey M. Moulton, brothers, Allan R. Moulton III, Ambrose K. Monell, Edmund Monell, and sister, Mary Masri. Service St. James Church, 865 M
 MULLIGAN-R. David. May 16, 1952 to May 3, 2003. Survived by sisters Susan and Nancy. Beloved son of Robert and Alice. He left his family and friends a better world. We'll go on, but without the same lightness and without his unusual perspective. Happy Birthday, David.       
 PALEY-Jack. On May 13, 2003. Loving husband and best friend of Sylvia Schultz Paley for 65 years. Brother of Reba Windreich. Father of Anita and Howard Orlin, Kenneth and Jian Paley. Greatly admired and beloved grandfather of Jonathan and Mary Orlin, Liz Orlin and John Ifcher, and Janet Orl
 PEAK-Robert. 48. Died suddenly on May 13, 2003, of acute arrhythmia. Loving father of Charlotte, who was the center of his life. Devoted husband of Marianna Koval. Beloved son of George and Adele Peak, cherished brother of Audrey Barrow, Catherine Bendert, William Peak and Carol McIntyre. A
 SPRINGER - Joachim. Be loved father, brother and friend passed away peacefully at his home May 15, 2003.       
 STERN-Marvin, M.D. The NYU - Bellevue Psychiatric Society notes, with deepest regret, the death of one their founding members, Marvin Stern, M.D., on May 13th. Dr. Stern was Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry at the NYU School of Medicine and was associated with Bellevue Hospital for over 65 
 TAPLIN-Frank. The Institute for Advanced Study is profoundly grateful for the commitment of Frank E. Taplin Jr. to its mission of fostering advanced scholarship and postdoctoral education, and for his desire to be a part of the Institute community as our friend and Trustee for over thirty y
 Robert Stack, who won an Emmy and received an Oscar nomination in his 60-year career in films and television but was best remembered as the implacable, square-jawed Eliot Ness of the 1959 series ''The Untouchables,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84. Mr. Stack
 William D. Witter, an investment executive who founded two firms named William D. Witter Inc., died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause of death was not announced. His father was Dean Witter, a founder of the investment firm Dean Witter & Company, which has beco
 Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad, spiritual leader of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Movement, a missionary movement that seeks to interpret Islamic doctrine in the light of the modern age, died on April 19 in London, where he had lived since fleeing Pakistan in 1984. He was 74. Hadhrat Mirza Tahir 
 Mark H. McCormack, who created the sports marketing industry and turned his company, IMG, into the largest of its kind in the world and a billion-dollar-a-year business, died yesterday at a nursing home in New York. He was 72. Mr. McCormack had been in a coma after a heart attack on
 FOX-Richard Lee. Died peacefully on May 15, 2003, at age 84. Artist, humorist, humanist and lover of life. We will miss his embrace. The Fox Family       
 MEYER-Fred A. On May 16, 2003 at age 80. Beloved husband of Ruth L. Meyer and the late Ruth E. Meyer. Loving father of Clifford and loving stepfather to Jonathan and David Leason and father-in-law of Alle Hall, Anna and Wendy. Adoring grandfather to Jordan, Justin, Jessica, Melanie and Morg
 MILLER-Robert S. Jr. Loving husband, father, brother, and friend passed away on May 14, 2003. He leaves behind him a legacy of courage, strength, and laughter and will be missed by all who knew and loved him. Bob Miller is survived by his wife, Barbara; daughters, Kara & Daniela, and sister
 WECHSLER-Jerome, CPA, Esq. Loving husband of Margery. Beloved father of Leslie Gwenn. Endearing parent to Joanne, Stephan, and Corki. Cherished grandfather of Benjamin, Joshua, John and Sam. He became family to his friends and a wonderful friend to his family. Founder of Jerome Wechsler, In
 Israel E. Levine, a former public-relations director at City College and the American Jewish Congress and the author of many biographies for young readers, died on May 10 in Queens. He was 79 and lived in Flushing. The cause was complications after vascular surgery, his family said.
 FORSYTH-William H. Died on May 14, peacefully, in his 96th year. Survived by his five children, Agnes Kuenkler, Caroline Elischer, William H. Forsyth Jr., Marian Weekly and Therese Hare, ten grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Curator Emeritus of Medieval Art at the Metropolitan Muse
 HUNDT-Frederick W. February 28, 1907 to May 11, 2003. Retired Assistant Principal of the New York City Public School System. Beloved husband of the late Helen, father of Paul, father-in-law of Rosemary, grandfather of Frederick and Douglas, uncle and friend of many. He was a sweet man and a
 LEO-Paul Herbert. 86. Died peacefully April 30, at home after a bout with cancer. Married to Gladys for the 62 happiest years of their lives; beloved father of Marie and Jerry (deceased); Gianna's loving Grandpa; father-figure to his devoted nephews, Jamie & Erik, Jerry's partner Rolando, a
 MEYER-Fred A. On May 16, 2003 at age 80. Beloved husband of Ruth L. Meyer and the late Ruth E. Meyer. Loving father of Clifford and loving stepfather to Jonathan and David Leason and father-in-law of Alle Hall, Anna and Wendy. Adoring grandfather to Jordan, Justin, Jessica, Melanie and Morg
 SELTER-Edward. Age 80, of Kings Point, NY, died of cancer at home on May 17, 2003. Ed was the beloved husband of Ruth Greenbaum Selter, devoted father of Neil and Todd, dear father-in-law of Jill Newman and Jill Waldman, proud grandfather of Emily, Noah, Stephanie and Jennifer, and brother 
 THIERINGER-Fred, Jr. Died peacefully at his Shelter Island home on May 15, 2003. He was born in a two family house at 189 North 18th Street, East Orange, New Jersey, on February 1, 1906. For the first 18 years of his life he moved between East Orange and Montclair (his father owned a house 
 WEINTRAUB-Harry. April 28, 1919-May 5, 2003. Beloved husband of Irene, father of Margie, Ted & Julie. Grandfather of Andrew, Jill & Robin. So many things to so many people. A loving, giving man who made the world a better place by being there. We rejoice in his memory.       
 ZALK-Joseph. 85, died May 16, 2003, at home in Floral Park, NY, after a long illness. Joe was the devoted husband of Lee, proud father of Richard and Connie, grandfather of David, brother of Milton and brother-in-law of Estelle. Joe was a World War II Army veteran and fierce fighter for jus
 Skunder Boghossian, an Ethiopian-born artist who played an important role in introducing European modernist styles into Africa and who, as a longtime resident of the United States, became one of the best-known African modern artists in the West, died on May 4 at Howard University Hospital i
 Dr. Vincent J. Freda, a winner of a Lasker Award for medical research who helped develop a vaccine to prevent a disease that killed thousands of babies each year, died on May 7 at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was respiratory failure, his family sai
 FORSYTH-William H. Died on May 14, peacefully, in his 96th year. Survived by his five children, Agnes Kuenkler, Caroline Elischer, William H. Forsyth Jr., Marian Weekly and Therese Hare, ten grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Curator Emeritus of Medieval Art at the Metropolitan Muse
 GREEN-Edson Killam. 97 years. Of Dalton, PA, and Green Valley, AZ. Died May 16, 2003. He was retired Executive Vice President, International Salt Company. Surviving: wife Genevieve Dey Green, three children, one stepdaughter, seven grandchildren, six great-grandchildren. He will long be rem
 IMBERMAN-Dr. Mark M. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our dear friend, Dr. Mark Imberman, a devoted physician who exemplified the highest standards of the medical profession. In 2001, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its coveted special recognitio
 JAPHET-Richard. 80, of Putnam Valley, died Saturday, May 17, 2003. Survived by his beloved wife Dahlia and daughter Wendy. Graveside services on Tuesday, May 20, at 11 a.m. at Rose Hills Cemetery, Putnam Valley. For information, Heritage Funeral Home, 845-526-3000.       
 Stefan Sharff, a filmmaker and author who was chairman of Columbia University's film division in the 1970's, died May 12 in Lebanon, N.H. He was 83. The cause was lymphatic cancer, his family said in a statement. He lived on a farm in Cornish, N.H. Mr. Sharff, who started Co
 David Otis Ives, who as head of the public broadcasting station WGBH-Boston helped build it into a national powerhouse for the Public Broadcasting Service, died on Friday in San Francisco, where he was on a family visit. He was 84 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. He suffered a brief il
 BLAIR-John Allan, 84 May 18, 2003 peacefully at his home in Edgartown, MA. His memorial service will be held Saturday, July 5, 2003 in St. Andrew's Episcopal Church, Edgartown at 11 am.       
 DORIA-Joseph, Sr., proprietor of Grace's Marketplace, born August 22, 1934 in Coratio, Italy in the Bari region, came to this country at 13. Worked for Louis Balducci, owner of Balducci's in Greenwich Village, met Grace Balducci in 1955 and married on May 5, 1957. He leaves his wife of 46 y
 GETZENDANNER - Joseph W., Jr. 89 of Pennswood Village, Newtown, PA, died on May 15, 2003. Husband of Betty Anne Forbes Getzendanner and father of the late Susan M. Getzendanner and Thomas F., Lydia Kriso and Martha Lingen. He is also survived by 12 grandchildren and a great-grandchild. Priv
 GIALLEONARDO - Victor. Passed away on May 19, 2003 at White Plains Hospital. He was 74 years old. Mr. Gialleonardo was born on July 24, 1928 in the Bronx, NY to Joseph and Erminia Ardone Gialleonardo. Mr. Gialleonardo was a forty year advertising executive as a graphic designer for Doremus 
 HEE-Dickson. The Charles B. Wang Community Health Center mourns the loss of Dickson Hee, Chairperson of The Board of Directors. Mr. Hee's commitment to improving the health and wellbeing of the Chinese-American community was unbounded; his enthusiasm and dedication towards the Health Center
 KIRCHGAESSNER - William. Of Hartsdale, N.Y. on May 18, 2003, after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved husband and best friend of Christine Pisani. Loving father of Laura and Paul. Opa to Kaleb and Kenny. Cherished son of the late Erna and Erwin Kirchgaessner. Also survived 
 KOSSOFF-Lewis F. on May 19. Loving husband of the late Frieda and devoted father of the late Michael Jay. Served with honor and distinction in the NYPD for 25 years. Survived by his brother-in-law, his nieces and nephews, and their children and grandchildren.       
 LYNCH-Edmund Calvert, Jr. Son of Signa Fornaris and Edmund Calvert Lynch. Born in New York City January 11, 1928; died May 19, at his summer home in Newport, RI. Attended St. Paul's School and graduated with the class of 1948 at Yale. He is survived by his loving wife of twentyfour years, A
 O'ROURKE-Michael M. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Michael M. O'Rourke. A Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres Henry F. White, Jr. Historian       
 STERN-Peter E., DDS, died peacefully on May 18, 2003. Devoted husband to Dorothy Servadio Stern for 54 years. Loving father of Lee and Randy, grandfather of Caitlin and Hailey, father-in-law of Patricia Morrisroe and Elizabeth Eubank. Brother of Leo, Andrew (deceased) and sister-in-law Enid
 It was standing room only today as nearly a thousand people packed St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church on Fifth Street this gentle spring morning. They had come to honor and bid farewell to, as Father Peter Colapietro said in his homily, ''the simple saloonkeeper's son, who always looked for
 GROSSMAN - Herma. On May 20, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Erwin. Loving mother of James and his wife Mary Ann. Extremely devoted grandmother of Amanda. Dear aunt of Jeanne, Jacqueline, Anne-Marie and Gudrun. Funeral service Thursday, 10AM at the John J. Fox Funeral Home, Inc., 2080 Boston
 HAIGNEY - John E. The Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester (formerly New Rochelle Hospital) notes with great sorrow the death of John E. Haigney. Jack was a valued member of the Board of Governors for over 20 years, serving as vice chairman for several terms. He was chairman of the law
 KAPLAN-Allan S. 68, of Greenwich, Connecticut, died May 19, 2003. Mr. Kaplan was a vice chairman of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and chairman of the Firm's Investment Banking Commitment Committee, Fairness Opinion Committee and Investment Committee. Throughout his 36 - year career at Lehma
 KIRCHGAESSNER - William. Of Hartsdale, N.Y. on May 18, 2003, after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved husband and best friend of Christine Pisani. Loving father of Laura and Paul. Opa to Kaleb and Kenny. Cherished son of the late Erna and Erwin Kirchgaessner. Also survived 
 LYNCH-Edmund Calvert, Jr. Son of Signa Fornaris and Edmund Calvert Lynch. Born in New York City January 11, 1928; died May 19, at his summer home in Newport, RI. Attended St. Paul's School and graduated with the class of 1948 at Yale. He is survived by his loving wife of twentyfour years, A
 PRATT-Albert. Of Key Largo, FL, and Osterville, MA, died at home of cancer on May 16, 2003. Mr. Pratt was born May 23, 1911 in West Newton, MA. He graduated from the Country Day School, Harvard College 1933, and Harvard Law School 1936. He was general partner of Paine Webber, and later pres
 RAPHAN-Benjamin . We are shocked and deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our cherished friend and colleague. Throughout his nearly four decades of service with our firm as a business and corporate attorney, Ben's calm demeanor and dispassionate approach drew us to him for advice and 
 STERN-Peter E. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Peter E. Stern. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Dorothy and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secy       
 THOMAS-Robert. The Police Surgeons of the New York Police Department record with profound sorrow the loss of our Chief Police Surgeon. Chief Thomas died suddenly on May 19th, 2003. He will be remembered for his wisdom, his leadership, compassion and his good sense of humor. Our heartfelt co
 DAVIDSON-Nathan J. May 21, 1999. Thank you, God, for the gift of his life-a joy to so many-an inestimable treasure to me. KMD       
 Peter Flint Joyce, a retired Southern California banking executive who took a special interest in golf, helping to organize the 1992 U.S. Open, among other efforts, died on May 13 at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 61. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Judith Anne, sai
 William Holmes Forsyth, curator emeritus of medieval art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, who helped transform piles of weathered old masonry into the Cloisters above the Hudson, died on May 14 in Hightstown, N.J. A former resident of Princeton, he was 96. Mr. Forsyth spent nearly
 C. A. Tripp, a psychologist, therapist and sex researcher who wrote an influential book on homosexuality, died on Saturday at his home in Nyack, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was cancer, said Lewis Gannett, a friend and author, with whom he finished a book shortly before his death specu
 Dr. Daniel George Miller, a cancer researcher and president emeritus of the Strang Cancer Prevention Center, died on May 7 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. The cause was bone-marrow disease, his family said. Dr. Miller was known fo
 ACOSTA-RUA--Dr. Gaston J., passed away peacefully the morning of Monday, May 19, 2003. Born August 26, 1937, in Cardenas, Cuba, Dr. AcostaRua moved to Jacksonville, Florida in 1972 to practice medicine and raise his family. He was a well respected neurosurgeon who was involved in many human
 AFFRIME--Marvin. Died on May 18. A friend and colleague of 50 years. We will miss him. His Friends. >>AD#       
 GANS--Carl H. On May 21, 2003. Lifetime forest products industry executive. Born in Borken, Germany 1915. Grew up in Holland and immigrated to the US in 1948. Survived by his wife Ruth. Contributions in lieu of flowers may be sent to American ORT, 817 Broadway, NYC 10003. >>AD#       
 HAGGARTY--Kevin F. Of Larchmont NY and formerly of Greenpoint, Brooklyn at age 60 on May 20, 2003. Beloved husband to Cathy, and father to Mark, Christopher, and Lizzie, and father-in-law to Amy. As Executive Managing Director of Insignia/ ESG's Capital Advisors Group, he was one of the mos
 HEE--Dickson. The Chinatown Health Clinic Foundation expresses its deepest condolences to the family of Dickson Hee. He will be remembered for his dedication to our community and to public service. Mr. Hee served as the Board Chair of the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center. A member of
 KAPLAN--Allan S. The employees of Lehman Brothers deeply mourn the loss of our trusted, loyal and beloved colleague and friend for 36 years. Mr. Kaplan was a vice chairman of Lehman Brothers and also served as chairman of the Firm's Investment Banking Commitment Committee, Fairness Opinion 
 LEVINSON--Marvin. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Gwen and their loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Rabbi Scott M. Corngold Cantor Bruce L. Ruben Michael H. Laufer, President >>AD#       
 LYNCH--Edmund Calvert, Jr. Son of Signa Fornaris and Edmund Calvert Lynch. Born in New York City January 11, 1928; died May 19, at his summer home in Newport, RI. Attended St. Paul's School and graduated with the class of 1948 at Yale. He is survived by his loving wife of twentyfour years, 
 STERN--Peter E., D.D.S. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. William G. Stein, M.D.-Pres. Barry D. Stimmel, M.D.-V.P. Elliot J. Rayfield, M.D.-S
 TOBIAS--Melvin, died peacefully May 19, 2003. Devoted husband to Beatrice for fiftysix years. Loving father of Nancy and Jeffrey. Brother of Norma Fund and Audrey Holder. WW II Navy veteran who proudly served his country, he was President of Consolidated Electric Meter Co., Inc. for over th
 Dr. William P. Longmire Jr., a surgeon who helped found the school of medicine at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on May 9 in his home in Los Angeles. He was 89. The cause was gastrointestinal cancer, officials at the American College of Surgeons said. In 1
 Alejandro DeTomaso, whose company produced a sports car that combined Italian flair with American horsepower, died on Wednesday in Modena, Italy. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, his family said. In 1971, Mr. DeTomaso's company, DeTomaso Automobili, based in Modena, b
 HAGGARTY--Kevin F. Of Larchmont NY and formerly of Greenpoint, Brooklyn at age 60 on May 20, 2003. Beloved husband to Cathy, and father to Mark, Christopher, and Lizzie, and father-in-law to Amy. As Executive Managing Director of Insignia/ ESG's Capital Advisors Group, he was one of the mos
 HIRSCH--Theodore, died on May 22, 2003 after a long illness. He was founder and president of People in Places, Inc., until his retirement in 1992. He was a playwright by avocation whose plays won several prestigious theatrical awards. Surviving are his wife Gloria Reade Hirsch, brother Will
 JOHNSON--Howard Cooper, Jr., of Fort Myers, Florida, passed away on May 19, 2003, at the age of 94. He had a long career in public service, including serving with the Joint Chiefs of Staff during WW II and The Ford Foundation, and as a Director of the United Nations Planning Staff of the De
 KAPLAN--Allan S. The employees of Lehman Brothers deeply mourn the loss of our trusted, loyal and beloved colleague and friend for 36 years. Mr. Kaplan was a vice chairman of Lehman Brothers and also served as chairman of the Firm's Investment Banking Commitment Committee, Fairness Opinion 
 LEVINSON--Marvin, on May 20. Beloved husband of Gwen; devoted father of Brad and Randy; cherished grandfather of Celanie, Drew and Zane; loving father-in-law to Laurel and Edison; caring brother to Bruce; adored godfather to Lauren; dearest friend to countless admirers. His generosity, self
 WALSH -- Richard Joseph. Born May 12, 1914, died March 16, 2003. Jamaica Supreme Court Special Deputy Clerk, retired. Loving father to Joyce and son-in-law Clarence. His vast knowledge and wonderful wit was appreciated by all who came in contact with him. >>AD#       
 WEST--Jimmy, 32. ''In a quiet humility, Jimmy became known from all corners of the world to me in Paris, New York and Melbourne. With beautiful colors from his soul his love was shown. Like all of the virtuous saints he had no vice. Counselor to abused children only did not suffice. With hi
 Albert Pratt, a retired senior partner of Paine Webber, former governor of the New York Stock Exchange and an assistant secretary of the Navy in the Eisenhower administration, died May 16 at his summer residence in Osterville, Mass. He was 91 and also had a home in Key Largo, Fla. A
 Gerard M. Weisberg, a judge on the New York State Court of Claims from 1977 to 1995, died at his home in Manahawkin, N.J., on May 17. He was 77. Mr. Weisberg held several posts in the judiciary and in New York City government. He was markets commissioner from 1966 to 1968, c
 Lionel Wilson, the voice of Tom Terrific, Mighty Manfred the Wonder Dog, Crabby Appleton and all the other characters of the ''Tom Terrific'' cartoons on the ''Captain Kangaroo'' children's television show, died on April 30 in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause w
 LOCKWOOD--Joseph T. III. On May 21, 2003. Beloved husband of Jane. Loving father of Chris (Susan) and Nancy Lockwood-Petas. Cherished grandfather of Kristen, John (Ashley), Nondas and Steven. Adored great grandfather of Kobain. Also survived by his brother-in-law Donald F. Pollit and his si
 RAPHAN -- Benjamin. We mourn the loss of Ben, our beloved friend and counselor. He will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest condolences to Myrna and the entire family. The HIG Corporation Barry Tenzer Ira Greenblatt >>AD#       
 TIGLER--Harvey. The entire Tourneau organization and the Wexler family mourn the passing of the founder and past president of its in-house advertising agency Harvard Marketing. His vitality, enthusiasm and creativity made him one of the true artists in the marketing world. His animated char
 Roger Pilkington, a prolific British author of books about sex, religion and sailing small boats along Europe's inland waterways, died in England on May 5. He was 88. Mr. Pilkington's popular 19-volume ''Small Boat'' series started in 1956 when he published ''Thames Waters,'' an acc
 Joseph Doria Sr., who with his wife founded and operated Grace's Marketplace, a thriving Upper East Side food center, died on May 17. He was 68 and lived in Old Westbury, N.Y. His son Dino said that Mr. Doria had a heart attack in his office at the store. Mr. Doria and his w
 COLEMAN--Gregory S., On May 24, 2003, age 77, of Muttontown, LI. Beloved husband of Mariann. Loving father of Stephen, Gregory, Edmund, Regina, Patrick, Roger, Cecilia, Mary, Christopher, Matthew, Reagan, Sean, and their spouses. Cherished grandfather of 19. Also survived by loving nieces a
 GORDON--Marvin, 87, of West Caldwell, NJ, formerly of North White Plains, NY and Hallandale, FL, passed away on May 24, 2003. Beloved husband of 63 years to Selma (nee Hirsch). Devoted father of Nina Wasserman (Arnold) and the late Phyllis Koock. Dear grandfather to Gary Wasserman (Helaine)
 LAUBY--Paul T. The trustees and staff of the United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia are deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Paul T. Lauby, who served as its general secretary from 1970 to 1989. Prior to his leadership of the United Board, Dr. Lauby spent 16 years as a missionar
 LEIKIN--Sanford, M.D., a Bethesda, Maryland physician, died on May 18th, 2003 in Houston, TX after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Irene, three daughters, Enid Leikin Reinus, M.D., Marcia Leikin Winograd, M.D., and Leslie Jacob, sister, Elayne Simkoff, and eight grandchildren. A
 PEAK--Robert M. We are shocked and profoundly saddened by the sudden passing of Robert M. Peak, our Partner, on Tuesday, May 13, 2003, at 48 years of age. A graduate of Georgetown University and Harvard Law School, Bob Peak joined us in 1982, became a leader in product liability defense and
 PLUNKET--John Thompson, 88, of Sarasota, FL, passed away May 7th in Cholula, Mexico. Devoted husband of Dolores, loving father of Lucy Silver, Robert, John Jr. and Patricia, revered grandfather of Sarah, Andrea, Rebecca, Benjamin, Orion and John III. Mr. Plunket's career spanned 50 years of
 PROPOS--Nat. Age 94, of Hollywood, Florida, formerly of NYC, passed away May 18, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Estelle Propos for 65 years. Loving father of Joel & father-in-law of Shelli; devoted grandfather of Stephanie Fishkin and Dana Yuran and great grandfather of Jamie, Shayna, Br
 RINDLER--Erwin, on May 23, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Ida. Loving father of Joan and Ronald. Devoted grandfather of Joel, Jessica, Jason, Lisa and Lisa. Dear uncle of Jerry and Peggy. He will be deeply missed by Ada and Ruth. Service Tuesday at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amst
 ROSENBAUM--Dr. Milton. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our distinguished professor emeritus and founding chairman of psychiatry, a highly respected physician, teacher and mentor, who served this institution with dedication and distinction for 
 ROSENBERG -- Ross. Pre viously of NYC, passed away on May 19 in Philadelphia, PA. Beloved husband of Lucille, devoted father of Ellen Rosenberg-Caserta and Liz Rosenberg, and loving grandfather to Vanessa, Adam and Eli. He was a graduate of R.P.I., a WW II Demolition and Engineering Veteran
 ROSENBLUM -- Marvin J. Died on May 7, 2003, in Chicago, IL, at the age of 60. He was the devoted husband of Gina (nee Hirsch) for 32 years. He was the loving father of Rachel and Jonathan Rosenfeld of NYC, David and Liora Rosenblum, of Riverdale, NY, Sara and Mark Ginsberg of Clifton, NJ, a
 SLADE--Sir Robert Benjamin; OBE, died suddenly and tragically at Barnet General Hospital in London on the 20th February 03, age 85, deeply and sadly missed by his wife Yi-Lai. All his musical friends especially jazz lovers are welcome to attend the funeral in London. Tributes to his many co
 THOMAS--Robert. The Police Surgeons of the New York Police Department record with profound sorrow the loss of our Chief Police Surgeon. Chief Thomas died suddenly on May 19th, 2003. He will be remembered for his wisdom, his leadership, compassion and his good sense of humor. Our heartfelt c
 LUBALIN--Herb. 1918--1981. His work is a testament to his life. Lovingly remembered. Rhoda S. Lubalin >>AD#       
 Rubin Leon Gorewitz, a New York tax accountant with an artistic who's who for a clientele, died on March 7 in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived on the West Side. A native of Brooklyn and a 1951 graduate of City College, Mr. Gorewitz started his career with a New York acounting firm in 
 Arthur Oldham, a British choirmaster who founded the Edinburgh Festival Chorus in 1965, died on May 4 in Paris. He was 76 and had retired to Paris. The cause was cancer, The Times of London reported. Mr. Oldham, who was also a composer, was best known in Europe for his years
 Chauncey William Wallace Cook, a former chairman and chief executive of the General Foods Corporation, died last Monday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 93. After becoming General Foods' chief engineer in 1942, he rose in a succession of marketing posts. He became president in 196
 John E. Haigney, the former chief executive and president of the Rheingold Corporation, died on May 15 at Atria Manresa in Annapolis, Md. He was 91. Mr. Haigney, who had served as the corporate counsel for Rheingold for a decade beginning in 1957, was named president in 1967 and cha
 LEVITT--Susan. The Officers and Crew of the Yacht Perfect Persuasion extend their sincerest condolences to Don Epstein on the loss of his sister. Guy O'Connor, Captain >>AD#       
 TESLER--Martin. On May 24, at age 80, of Boynton Beach, FL, and Amagansett, NY. Formerly of Jericho and Harrison, NY. Beloved husband of Beverly, loving father of Richard, Jennifer and Charles, loving father-in-law of Martin, Jonathan and Ronald. Devoted grandfather of Jordan, Maxwell, Sama
 TOLHURST--Richard S. At Albany, NY, at the age of 94. Survived by his wife Shirley Constant Tolhurst; two sons, Mel and Neil; and grandchildren and great-grandchildren. He also leaves several nieces and nephews. Services at Congregration Beth Emeth, Albany, NY, on Tuesday, 11 AM. Contributi
 Hermann Anton Haus, an authority on optical communications who combined his knowledge of electrical engineering and quantum mechanics to advance technologies used in eye surgery, medical imaging and precision clocks, died on Wednesday in Lexington, Mass. He was 77. The cause was a h
 BECK--Martin P. Sr. 74, of New Windsor, NY. Formerly of Cornwall, New York. Died on May 24th, 2003 at his home following a long illness. Former Business Manager of New York Military Academy, Cornwall, NY. Beloved husband of Barbara, devoted father of Paul (Lisa), Kate, John (Dru), Joan (Sea
 ERWIN--Robert Dean. On May 24th, 2003, peacefully after a long illness. Cherished husband of Rose Cannistraci Erwin. Devoted father of Robert Thomas of New York City, Julia Anne (Paul) Carabajal of Oklahoma City, Paula Sue (Jim) Short of Stillwater, Oklahoma, and the late Mark Gregory Erwin
 FISH--Robert B., passed away on May 26th, 2003 at age 80. He is survived by his wife Kathryn; daughter Judith; granddaughter Justine; brother and sister-in-law Richard and Marie Fish. Funeral services will be held at Congregation Emanuel of Westchester, Rye, NY on Thursday, May 29 at 10 AM.
 GUADAGNINO--Carmine A. On May 23, 2003 at age 51. Beloved husband of Valerie Merone Guadagnino. Loving father of Matthew. Cherished son of Martha and the late Domenic. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9PM. Mass of Christian burial 
 HOLTZER--Morris (Murray). Passed away May 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Sally. Devoted father to Steven, Robert, David, Sandra and Mark. Loving grandfather of nine grandchildren. Cherished brother of Helen, Ruth and Bernard. He was deeply loved and will be fondly remembered. Service will be 
 RUSSELL--John V., of Jersey City, NJ, formerly of Manhattan, on Saturday, May 24, 2003. Beloved partner of Robert Condon. Loving son of Jacqueline Russell and the late Harvey Russell. Dear brother of Harvey Russell, Jr. and his wife Nicole. Devoted uncle of Harvey and Anne. Also survived by
 Sloan Wilson, the novelist who put ''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit'' into the American lexicon in 1955, died on Sunday in Virginia. He was 83 and lived in Colonial Beach, Va. He had suffered from Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Wilson had settled i
 David Keh, a pioneering restaurateur who helped introduce New York City to a world of Chinese cooking beyond egg rolls and fried rice, died Monday in his home in Manhattan. He was 69. He had been in poor health for several years after suffering two strokes, said a son, William Keh. 
 Luciano Berio, an Italian composer whose many compositions, ranging from chamber music to large-scale orchestral works and from operas to songs, combined innovative imagination and analytical depth with a richly sensuous feeling for sound and form, died yesterday in Rome. He was 77.        
 di MONTEZEMOLO--Alessandro, 1918-2003--In Loving Memory. On behalf of the Board of Directors, the staff and volunteers of the American-Italian Cancer Foundation, we extend our deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Alessandro di Montezemolo, beloved husband, friend and mentor. He wil
 GARDNER--Richard A., M.D. A child and adult psychiatrist and psychoanalyst practicing in Cresskill, N.J. died Sunday at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 72. He had been a clinical professor of psychiatry and faculty member in the division of child psychology at Columbia University's College
 GOTTLIEB--Martin. The Officers and Directors of Green Bus lines, Triboro Coach, Jamaica Buses and Command Bus Company sadly note the passing of Martin Gottlieb, a man who rose from bus driver to executive and later a respected member of the Board of Directors. Hard working, industrious and 
 GREENWALD--Herbert, on May 27, in his 98th year. Beloved father of Rose (Morton) Landowne, husband of the late Helen N. Greenwald, grandfather of Dena (Jay), Lea, Shifra and Aryeh, greatgrandfather of Micha, Keren and Gilad. Herb was an adored uncle and great-uncle and was a founding partne
 GUTHMAN--Leo S. Private investor, art collector, Chicago civic leader and former president of Bradley & Vrooman Company, died in his Lake Shore Drive home on Saturday, May 24, 2003, at age 96. Two daughters, Lynne Rosenthal of Stamford, CT, and Patricia Silver of Beverly Hills, CA, six gran
 KOPELMAN--Mel W., died peacefully on May 26, 2003 at the age of 87. Beloved husband of Jean R. for 43 years. Cherished father of Elizabeth S. (Oscar Kolodzinski). Revered stepfather of Alvin L. Hollander III (Margaret Maynard) and Edmund D. Hollander (Dr. Wendy J. Powers). Loving Grandpa Me
 LUGER--Dr. Daniel on May 23 in Florida after a long illness. He leaves a loving and devoted family-his cherished wife, Anita, his children Dr. Jay Luger, Dr. Steven Luger, Richard Luger, Susan Luger and his dear brother Dr. Norton Luger. His grandchildren, all 10 of them, were the delight o
 MORSE--Samuel M., 96. Darling husband of Marjorie Berliner Morse, died at home on May 25, 2003. Devoted father of Robert I. Morse, M.D. (and his wife Jane) and the late Carol Morse Stanley and his stepchildren Marilyn B. Portnow, Robert A. Berliner, and Howard M. Berliner (and his wife Mary
 NAGLIERE--Michael P. Jr. Peacefully, on May 26, 2003. Survived by his partner of 34 years, Andrew Locapo, and his loving family and friends. A gathering in his honor will be held at a later date. >>AD#       
 OSTASHEVSKY--Joseph Y. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Joseph Y. Ostashevsky, Ph.D, Research Professor in the Department of Radiation Oncology. Among his many accomplishments, Dr. Ostashevsky studied chromosome structure and the effects of radiation on the 
 TESLER--Martin. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Beverly, his children Richard, Jennifer, Charles and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Norton D. Shargel Rabbi Emer
 Almir Chediak, an arranger, producer, composer and publisher who was one of the most important behind-the-scenes figures in Brazilian popular music over the last 20 years, died late Sunday in a robbery attempt at his weekend home in the mountains north of here. He was 52 and lived in Rio.  
 BEAUCLERK--Dr. William T., of New York City and East Hampton, passed away peacefully after a valiant battle with pancreatic cancer on May 28, 2003 surrounded by his loving family. Beloved husband of Melanie Puffpaff. Loving brother of Fran O'Connor. Brother-in-law of Jack O'Connor. Cherishe
 BECK--William S. Professor of medicine in Winchester, MA., May 27. Husband of Hanne T. Beck. Father of Thomas R. Beck and his wife Susan of Concord, MA, Peter Dean Beck of NYC, John C. Beck and Paul B. Beck both of Long Beach, CA. Grandfather of Christopher T. Beck of Acton, MA and Michael 
 BRANOWER--Mimi F. May 27, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Gerald Branower. Loving mother of Andrew and his wife Lauren, Richard, and Peter and his wife Janelle. Cherished grandmother of Daniel, Joshua, Alex, Ben and Nathan. Devoted sister of the late Jerome Freedman and his wife Suzanne. Mem
 BROWER--Irving. In loving memory of Irving Brower. Irving Brower, loving husband of Elaine, father of Dr. Mark, Dr. Roy, and Robin Brower, grandfather of Barry, David, Justin and Sean, brother of Mildred Gaillard and the late Herbert Brower, son of the late Nathan and Ida Brower, passed awa
 DOLIN--Dr. Louis L., on May 27, 2003, age 81. Beloved husband of Florence. Survived by Mickey, Steven, Nancy and Kenneth; grand-nephews Jeremy, Isaac, Sam and Julian. Dr. Dolin was a dentist for 55 years in Fleetwood, Mount Vernon. He served as a Captain in the United States Dental Corps in
 GRANNON -- Charles L. Charles (''Chuck'') Lee Grannon a former partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co., New York, NY, and resident of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ died March 7, 2003 at age 87. Grannon spent his entire career at Goldman Sachs & Co., joining the firm in 1945, he became a
 LATTES--Raffaele. The faculty, staff and students of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons are saddened by the passing of Raffaele Lattes, M.D. Prof. Emeritus of Pathology. Dr. Lattes was born in Turin, Italy in 1910 and received his M.D. degree there in 1933. Following the e
 LEMONIK -- Murray. We loved him like a brother. Murray had a rare generosity, delightful sense of humor, and gentle sweetness. He was tireless on the tennis court and graciously helpful at all other times. We say goodbye with admiration, gratitude, and pain. The Boys from the Hewlett High S
 LUGER--Daniel, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. William G. Stein, M.D.-Pres. Barry D. Stimmel, M.D.-V.P. Elliot J. Rayfield, M.D.-Secy.
 SHEINBAUM--Herbert H. On May 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Mathilde. Father of Robert and Susan Williams. Grandfather of Margaret and George. Brother of Stanley and Gilbert. He meant so much to so many. We rejoice in his memory. >>AD#       
 SURY--Stanley J., 80, a resident of Ormond Beach, FL. and former longtime resident of the Town of Rye, NY died suddenly at his home on April 19, 2003. He was born and raised in Port Chester, NY and graduated from Port Chester High School in 1940. He was a veteran of World War II, serving in
 ZIMET--Melvin, 90, of New York City and Hanover, NH, died on May 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Janet Ginandes and the late Joan Zimet. Loving father of John Zimet, his wife Kristen and Paul Zimet, his wife Ellen, stepfather to Peter and Carol Ginandes and grandfather of Anya, Isaac, Zachary,
 Willard Goldsmith Rouse III, a scion of a family of builders who built his own niche with Liberty Property Trust of Malvern, Pa., a real estate business that includes some of the most visible peaks of the Philadelphia skyline, died on Tuesday at his home in Phoenixville, Pa. He was 60.     
 Dr. Ilya Prigogine, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1977 for insights into how life could arise in apparent defiance of the classical laws of physics, died on Wednesday in Brussels. He was 86. The second law of thermodynamics states that in any isolated physical system, orde
 BOISI--Luke, of Locust Valley, on May 28, 2003, in his twenty-first year. Beloved son of Geoffrey and Rene Boisi, loving brother of Zachary, Peter and John, cherished grandson of James O. and Edith M. Boisi, and Norine G. and the late Anthony J. Isacco. Luke will be truly missed by many aun
 di MONTEZEMOLO--Alessandro, of Southampton, N.Y., and Rome, Italy, died on Tuesday, May 27. He was 84. Mr. di Montezemolo joined the Italian cavalry as a young man and remained a life-long equestrian. He rose to the rank of Major and was wounded in the North Africa Campaign. In 1950 he join
 ELLIOTT--Frank A., Dr. May 28th, 2003, of Philadelphia, PA. An Emeritus Professor of Neurology. Age 92. Husband of the late Gwladys Hopkins Marvel. Father of Gillian K. Elliott of London, England, Sally Ridley-Day of London, England, stepfather of Josiah Marvel of Paris, France and Jonathan
 GAULT -- Mark William. Passed away May 24th, 2003, at age 45. Beloved husband of Susie. Devoted father to Harry and Jack. He is survived by his parents, Phyllis and Jim, and by his brothers, Philip and Hugh. He was Worldwide Executive Vice President and Regional Director of McCann-Erickson 
 GUADAGNINO -- Carmine. The Browning School community mourns the loss of Carmine Guadagnino, a thoughtful and involved parent. Our thoughts are with his wife Valerie and their son, Matthew. Marita F. Altman, President, The Parents Association James S. Chanos, President, Board of Trustees Ste
 HARTIG--Peter. 87, passed away Monday, May 26, 2003. During his life, he was a championship tennis and table tennis player and an accomplished businessman. However, his greatest achievement was bringing together and helping people with his wit, wisdom, warmth, and humor. He is survived by h
 ORLOFF--Neil, a leading environmental lawyer and noted documentary photographer, passed away on April 26, 2003, at the age of 59. His simultaneous careers as lawyer and artist captured the combination of powerful intellect and artistic imagination that defined a rich and productive life. He
 ROUSE--Willard G. III, on May 27, 2003, age 60, of Phoenixville, PA. Beloved husband of Susannah. Father of Molly, Anne, Tanner, Hadley, Griffin, Lydia, Traighe and Tilghman. Grandfather of Karly and Ella. Also survived by sisters Lee, Kathy, and Ellen and his brother Roth. A private memori
 SETON--Fenmore R., 85, of Hamden, CT. Beloved husband of Phyllis, devoted father of Diana Wakerley, loving grandfather of Christopher and James Adams. Died on Memorial Day, May 26, 2003. Fen was a decorated WW II Air Force Major, the founder and CEO of Seton Name Plate Corp., past President
 SHAPIRO--Murray, 85, Brooklyn, died on Wednesday, May 28, 2003, at his home. He was the husband of 57 years of Beatrice Shapiro. At 15, he graduated from Boys High School. He attended N.Y.U. and Brooklyn College, where he was a member of the soccer team. Mr. Shapiro was a decorated army vet
 ZAMBELLI--Alfred F., B.A., M.A. (Yale), World War II veteran, Fulbright Scholar, longtime New Yorker and well-known antiquarian book dealer, died peacefully on May 24, 2003, age 89. He is survived by his daughter, Pia, his son-in-law, Lorne Silcoff and grandchildren, Michael and Jonathan. >
 ZIMET--Melvin, 90, of New York City and Hanover, NH, died on May 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Janet Ginandes and the late Joan Zimet. Loving father of John Zimet, his wife Kristen and Paul Zimet, his wife Ellen, stepfather to Peter and Carol Ginandes and grandfather of Anya, Isaac, Zachary,
 FULTON -- Robert Edison, was one of the most interesting men I have every known. He was a philosopher, musician, poet, director, cinematographer, aerial cinematographer, filmmaker, and most of all, an incredible man. Bob was highly skilled in all these areas. He won many awards including an
 Sandman Sims, the celebrated tap dancer and Apollo Theater legend, died on May 20 in the Bronx. He was 86, although he long maintained that his age was ''a matter of opinion.'' For decades he was ''executioner'' at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, chasing unpopular acts off the stage o
 Geoffrey Bawa, a Sri Lankan architect whose striking blend of traditional Asian forms and contemporary international styles produced houses and public buildings in harmony with their Asian landscapes, died on Tuesday at his home in the capital, Colombo. He was 83. In 1998, a stroke 
 BOISI--Luke, of Locust Valley, on May 28, 2003, in his twenty-first year. Beloved son of Geoffrey and Rene Boisi, loving brother of Zachary, Peter and John, cherished grandson of James O. and Edith M. Boisi, and Norine G. and the late Anthony J. Isacco. Luke will be truly missed by many aun
 FOSTER--Malcolm, Jr. Beloved son of the late Malcolm Foster and Helen F. Foster. Brother of the late Barbara Foster Hamilton. Died May 29, 2003. Mike was a good, loyal and generous friend to many. His vitality, good nature and philanthropy will be sorely missed by those who knew him, enjoye
 Peter Lasko, director of the Courtauld Institute of Art in London from 1974 to 1985, died on May 19. He was 79 and lived in Norwich, England. Mr. Lasko, who was born in Berlin, arrived in Britain as a teenager in 1937. According to The Times of London, his affection for his adopted 
