 Charles C. Tillinghast Jr., a lawyer, businessman and investment banker, who was chairman of Trans World Airlines and a former chancellor of Brown University, died July 25 at his summer home in Little Compton, R.I. He was 87. He died of heart disease, a spokesman for the family said
 Harvie Branscomb, the chancellor of Vanderbilt University from 1946 to 1963, who put the institution on the path to national prominence, died on July 23 at his home in Nashville. He was 103. Dr. Branscomb was the first chairman of the United States Advisory Commission for Education 
 GREATREX-Niles T. 72. Died July 28, 1998 in Cortland, NY. He was born January 5, 1926 in New York City, NY the son of William and Irene Reilly Greatrex and had been a resident of Syracuse since 1980 and previously resided in New York City. He was a past member of St. Paul's Catholic Church 
 LUDIN-Benjamin, age 90. Died in Freehold, New Jersey, July 29, 1998. Survived by his wife Anne (Monoson) Ludin, his brother Morris Ludin, his sister Nellie Strauss, his daughter Adele Boskey, and his granddaughter Elizabeth Rona Boskey. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, August 2nd, 1
 MARTIN-William McChesney, Jr. The Board of Directors of The New York Stock Exchange mourns the death of our former President, esteemed colleague and friend, William McChesney Martin, Jr. He served as the first full-time paid President of the Exchange from June 30, 1938 until April 16, 1941.
 MELTZER-Harold, 89. Of Naples, Florida formerly of Jersey City, New Jersey, and Englewood, New Jersey died on July 25th in Naples, Florida. Beloved and devoted husband to Evelyn, father to Eleanor Daniels and grandfather to Steven Daniels. He was a distinguished member of the New Jersey Bar
 OLSEN-A. William Jr. The Sharon Hospital Community in Sharon, CT mourns the death of Bill Olsen, a long time trustee and former board chairman. His wise guidance and superb leadership will be greatly missed. We extend to his wife, Jean, daughter, Liza and grandchildren our heartfelt sympath
 REBELL-Harry. We mourn the loss of our dear friend. He lived life to the fullest and served as a mentor to all who had the privilege of knowing him. To his family we extend our heartfelt sympathy. We will always remember and miss his adventurous spirit for living. Gloria and Paul Asnes     
 ROBBINS-Jerome. The School of American Ballet notes with sorrow the death of its distinguished alumnus & great friend, Jerry Robbins. He was an artist of the first rank, one who could spin choreographic gold when working with legendary ballerinas, Broadway veterans or SAB students. Chairman
 STOWER-Irving, D.D.S. Age 84. Died July 31, 1998 in Hingham, MA. Formerly of New Rochelle, N.Y. Survived by his wife Shirley, sons Rev. Richard & Gary, daughtersin-law Nancy and Carol, grandchildren Jonathan, Rachel and Lauren. Graveside service at King Solomon Memorial Park, Clifton, New J
 WHITEHEAD-O.Z. (Zebby), age 87. Died on July 29, 1998, Dublin, Ireland. After a short illness. Attended St. Marks School '30 and Harvard. Actor in Hollywood, in ''Grapes of Wrath, ''The Lion in Winter'', ''Ulysses'' & many other films and television productions. He worked with Henry Fonda, 
 Rex Lardner, a humorist who spent the better part of his life doing what he did best and enjoyed most, writing, playing tennis and making people laugh, died on Monday at the top of his game, playing mixed doubles with his usual tenacious skill at a court near his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He
 Satu Khamphouy Sinnolai, one of the first Buddhist monks from Laos to take refuge in the United States and the first to arrive as a pastor to immigrants in the New York metropolitan region, died on May 28 at Bridgeport Hospital in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 79 and lived in that city. 
 Dr. Edward F. Edinger, a leading Jungian analyst whose books on the interplay between symbols and psychology carried the concepts of Carl Jung to a new generation of American analysts, died on July 17 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 75. The cause was bladder cancer, family member
 Sir James Lighthill, an innovative British mathematician whose ideas about aerodynamics influenced the design of the supersonic Concorde, died on July 17 while he was trying to swim around the Isle of Sark in the English Channel. He was 74 and lived in London. The cause of death was
 FREUDENHEIM-Jay M. July 31, 1998, of Katonah, NY. Wonderful husband and best friend of Lenore for 58 years. Loving father of Lynn Cavo, Steve Freudenheim and Jill Lieberman. Proud grandfather of five and great-grandfather of two. Services private. Contributions in his memory may be made to 
 GERMAN-Bernard, M.D. The Members of the New Jersey Psychoanalytic Society mourn the death of its founder and first President and extend sympathy to his wife and family.       
 HERBSTMAN-Harold S., Esq. Passed away on July 15. Founder and Director, Dove Theater Company, 1966-1978. Francophile, actor on Yiddish stage, musician, writer, educator and public defender. Survived by his wife Natalie Rogers, daughter Colette, brother Sheldon, sisters Mildred and Florence,
 LAMPEL-Roy. Age 50, Red Hook, NY, Monday, July 27, 1998, following a traffic accident. He owned several manufacturing businesses in New York and was active in trade associations in the Manhattan garment center. Father of Adam, son of Milton and Sylvia, brother of Neal, brother of the late S
 LIVINGOOD-Clarence S., M.D. The Department of Dermatology of Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI, mourns the passing of our founding chairman on July 27, 1998 at the age of 86. He was the chairman between 1953 and 1976 & was the Executive Director of the American Board of Dermatology (ABD
 MARTIN-William McChesney, Jr. The Board of Directors of The New York Stock Exchange mourns the death of our former President, esteemed colleague and friend, William McChesney Martin, Jr. He served as the first full-time paid President of the Exchange from June 30, 1938 until April 16, 1941.
 REBELL-Harry. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Harry Rebell, a devoted philanthropist who showed a deep concern for the Jewish community and humanitarian causes. He was greatly admired for his generous spirit and wisdom, while ser
 ROBBINS-Jerome. Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater mourns the loss of a great pioneer of dance and the contribution he made to the arts community. A source of inspiration & creativity, we remember Jerome Robbins with much admiration. The Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater is proud to have b
 RUSSO-Vito M. On August 1, 1998. Beloved husband of Diana. Loving stepfather of Alexandra Kaufman, Valerie Lenes and Victoria Maghsadi. Adored grandfather of Jeffrey, Adam and Noah. Brother of Madeline LaMorte and Mary Scutellaro. Former owner of Mario Industries, Inc. Lamp and Shade Manufa
 SMITH-Robert E. The Partners and Staff of Rosenberg Selsman & Co., LLP, mourn with great sadness the passing of Robert E. Smith. ''Buffalo Bob'' was more than a client, he was a friend and inspiration to us all. We extend our sympathy to his family on their loss. Ronald H. Selsman Rosenberg
 WHITEHEAD-O.Z. (Zebby), age 87. Died on July 29, 1998, Dublin, Ireland. After a short illness. Attended St. Marks School '30 and Harvard. Actor in Hollywood, in ''Grapes of Wrath, ''The Lion in Winter'', ''Ulysses'' & many other films and television productions. He worked with Henry Fonda, 
 WINOGRAD-Sam. Beloved husband of Teddi. Loving father of Barry (Deborah) Winograd and Marcy Winograd (Ira Gottlieb). Proud and adoring grandfather of Ben Winograd, Gina Gardner and Rachel Winograd. Also survived by brother Alfred Winograd (Betty), sister Mae Bassin, sister-in-law Rhoda Semo
 ZEALAND-David. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, David Zealand, whose many years of friendship and devotion to the Club will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Richard
 GABRIELE-Tony, Ph.D. The wisdom, wit and vitality of Tony are profoundly remembered and commemorated this week by his family and friends. With deepest love, Barbara       
 LISKIN-Elliot. August 7th. The warmth of his laughter, his wisdom, vitality, integrity, loving ways and ''The memories linger on.'' Grandchildren, Children, Joyce       
 They played ''Danny Boy'' for Tommie Ryan the other day, and how could they not? In the three-quarters of a century since he arrived in Chicago with his fiddle, a wiry 22-year-old refugee from the Irish nationalist rebellion and 14 months in a British prison camp, Thomas F. Ryan had played 
 William T. Gossett, a lawyer who during the course of a long career was an auto executive, diplomat and advocate for change in the criminal justice system, died of congestive heart failure at his home in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., on July 20. He was 93. A lawyer for more than 60 years
 Frank Hayes Wheaton Jr., who served for three decades as head of Wheaton Industries, a Millville, N.J., glass manufacturer founded by his grandfather, died on July 21 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 85 and a lifelong resident of Millville. Wheaton 
 John R. Hopkins, a British playwright and screenwriter, author of the drama ''Find Your Way Home'' and the television adaptation of  ''Smiley's People,'' died on July 23 at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 67. His wife, the actress Shirley  Knight, said the cause was a head
 Karl Schirdewan, a high-ranking figure in the old East German Communist Government who wanted to ''democratize'' the Communist Party but lost a power struggle and fell into disgrace, has died in Potsdam, Germany. He was 91. His death was reported on July 17  in the Frankfurter Allge
 PACHMAN-Bernard. On August 1, 1998. Devoted husband of Renee and father of Ilene. He will be greatly missed.       
 PEABODY-George, Jr. Beloved husband of Barbara. Father of George III, Christopher, Carolyn and adopted son Harry. Grandfather of Steven and Sean. Cousin of Colonel John Fox-Slater. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian
 RUSSO-Vito M. On August 1, 1998. Beloved husband of Diana. Loving stepfather of Alexandra Kaufman, Valerie Lenes and Victoria Maghsadi. Adored grandfather of Jeffrey, Adam and Noah. Brother of Madeline LaMorte and Mary Scutellaro. Former owner of Mario Industries, Inc. Lamp and Shade Manufa
 WALSH-Thomas E., 63. Dear husband of Ann Collins Walsh. Tom died at home on August 1 after a long illness. A service of thanksgiving to celebrate his life will be held at a later date. Memorial gifts may be made to the C. F. Alliance, Council for Secular Humanism, P.O. Box 664, Amherst, NY 
 WEISS-Stephan. Our deepest sympathies to his devoted wife Blanche and family. Selfless, ever ready to assist others. Won citizenship on battlefield at Saipan, WW II. Now at rest in our hearts. Irving, Vivian, David Nancy, Carol, Paul       
 WOLK-I. Louis. Survived by his wife Gloria, daughter Carol Kurtz, grandsons Jason and Randy Kurtz, sister Harriette Eyster, brothers Jack and Reuben. Worked as examiner for the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, patent counsel for Phillips Petroleum, Dayton Rubber and Merck Pharmaceuticals, 
 Ralph G. Newman, an unlikely bookstore proprietor and even less likely Civil War scholar who made a name for himself specializing in Abraham Lincoln and almost ruined it befriending Richard M. Nixon, died on July 23 at a hospital near his home in Chicago. He was 86. It may seem stra
 Robert H. Cooley 3d, a lawyer who had been leading a campaign to have his family recognized as descendants of Thomas Jefferson and his slave Sally Hemings, died on July 20 at a hospital near his home in Midlothian, Va., a Richmond suburb. He was 58. Pending results of an autopsy, hi
 Alfred Schnittke, an iconoclastic composer who won fame in the West as he struggled against the restraints of Soviet cultural ideology at home, died yesterday at the University Hospital in Hamburg, Germany. He was 63 and lived in Hamburg and Moscow. The cause was a stroke, one of a 
 Dr. Leroy E. Burney, who as Surgeon General of the United States  Public Health Service in the Eisenhower Administration was the first Federal official publicly to identify smoking as a cause of lung cancer, died on Friday at a hospital in Park Ridge, Ill. He was 91. On July 12, 195
 ANGEL-Kenneth Howard. On August 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Valerie (nee Tate). Adoring father of Nicole & Carolyn. Caring brother of Gail Tolchin. Kind son-in-law of Dianna & Fred. Loving brotherin-law of Nancy Jones and Bob Tolchin. He was ''Uncle Kenny'' to his niece & nephews. Services 
 BERALL-Nathan. Of Duxbury, Massachusetts, on August 1, 1998, age 94. Husband of the late Terese (Levine) Berall, father of Jonathan Berall of Brooklyn Heights, NY & Stephen Berall & his wife Ellen Erdwein of Duxbury. Grandfather of Jeffrey & David Berall, both of Duxbury. Also survived by a
 BRISCOE-Rudel Milton. Passed on Aug. 2, 1998. Son of Alexander & LadieAnne Briscoe, was born in Phila. & raised in Harlem. He was a noted hair designer and artist, who attended Cooper Union & coowned ''Coif Camp'' beauty salon & others. His art has been exhibited in Manhattan & Washington, 
 FOX-Melvin J. On August 3, 1998. After graduating from American University with a degree in Economics in 1941, Mr. Fox worked in the U.S. Treasury & the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. In 1946, he was a founding director of the U.S. Committee for the United Nations Day, under ch
 GOLDSMITH-Walter. With deep sorrow we record the demise of Walter Goldsmith. Our sincerest condolences to his dear son, David, our Vice President, Chairman of Finance Committee, parent of our alumnus, Matthew, ardent worker and generous benefactor. May your father's precious memory be a sou
 LAUFER-Simon. Beloved husband of Fran. Devoted father of Lottie Morgenstern, Suzie Rozner Fiderer and Gayle Yashar. Cherished grandfather and great grandfather. A Holocaust survivor and true a patriarch, known for his generosity, integrity, cheerfulness, wisdom and business acumen, he was a
 LEFKOWITZ-Rabbi Leopold (Leibish). The World Council of Orthodox Jewish Communities, has suffered the profound loss of its President and dynamic leader who, as head of the Crystal Clear Industries, shared all of his energies, precious time and hard-earned wealth with his poorer brethren wor
 NEEDELMAN-Harry, August 2, 1998 day before his 90th birthday. From Lauderdale Lakes, FL. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy, loving father of Gloria Brokman, Elayne Flamm, devoted father-inlaw-of Albert Brokman & the late Donald Flamm, dear brother of Murray (Pearl) Neale, sister Esther Ro
 OLSEN-A. William, Jr., who led The Hotchkiss School as headmaster from 1960 to 1981, died July 30 at his home in Lakeville, Connecticut. Mr. Olsen was born in Tientsin, China, on May 15, 1921. He was the son of the late Albert W. Olsen and Gertrude Richards Olsen, and the family lived in Ch
 PEABODY-George, Jr. Beloved husband of Barbara. Father of George III, Christopher, Carolyn and adopted son Harry. Grandfather of Steven and Sean. Cousin of Colonel John Fox-Slater. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian
 RUSSO-Vito. It is with a deep sense of loss that the Mount Vernon Hospital mourns the death of its board member, friend and colleague, Vito Russo. Vito epitomized the word philanthropist, and was a community activist in the true sense of the term. For four decades, he gave not only financia
 SCANNELL-James B., DDS. The staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center is deeply saddened by the death of their friend and colleague Dr. James B. Scannell. Dr. Scannell began his long association with Memorial in 1947 as a Memorial Hospital resident. He joined the staff of Memorial Slo
 ZEALAND-David. The Members of SCORE - WESTCHESTER mourn the passsing of our friend and co-worker, David Zealand. He established a standard we all hope to achieve. Robert D'Agostino, Chairman       
 ZEPNICK-Sam. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Sol Zepnick on the loss of his brother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 MECHANIC-Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''And until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand.'       
 Ernest M. Dickerman, who was known by the Sierra Club as ''the granddad of the Eastern wilderness'' for his efforts to persuade people to defend their forests and wilderness from the power saws and bulldozers of loggers, developers, road builders and other commercial interests, committed su
 Fabrice Simon, the fashion designer known professionally as Fabrice, whose glittering evening wear symbolized the glamour of the high-flying 1980's, died last Wednesday in New York. He was 47. The cause was AIDS, his family said yesterday. At the height of his success, Mr. S
 APPEL-Morris (Dick), on Tuesday, August 4, 1998. Devoted and beloved husband of Belle (Bobbie). Cherished and loving father to Albert and Robert, and evercaring and loving father-in-law and grandfather to Irena, Robin, Elliott, Alex and Nikki. He will be missed dearly. His memory will stay 
 BUTLER-John F. Died July 22, 1998. In celebration of his life, a Memorial Mass will be given at 10:30 AM, August 13, 1998, at St. Jean Baptiste Catholic Church, Lexington Avenue at 76th Street.       
 DONADEO-John, MD. The Officers and members of the New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute express their profound sorrow at the death of their esteemed colleague. He held many offices in our educational program and will be missed by generations of students. Condolences are extended to 
 FARAH-Albert. Age 86, of Brooklyn, NY, formerly of Englewood, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Jean (nee D'Angelo). Dear father of Albert and his wife Mildred of Haworth, NJ; Kenneth, and his fiancee of NYC. Dear brother of George of Delray Beach, FL.; Catherine of Brooklyn, & his sisterin-l
 FISHER-Barry J., M.D. A prominent Phoenix Pediatric Pulmonologist at Children's Hospital, died suddenly while vacationing in New York on August 3. He was 58 years old. He graduated from Erasmus Hall High School in 1957, Columbia College in 1961, Downstate Medical Center in 1965, & completed
 GASSEL-Claire. The congregation of the Mohegan Park Jewish Center extends its condolences to our president Philip Gassel and his family on the death of his beloved mother Claire Gassel. May God comfort them among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mohegan Park Jewish Center       
 GOLDSMITH-Walter. We express sincerest condolences to our devoted friend and benefactor, David Goldsmith, on the loss of his beloved father, Walter. A long time supporter of ''The Hospital with a Heart'', Walter personified the values of tzedekah and chesed. May the warm memories of this sp
 GOSSETT-William T. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus William T. Gossett, Esq. He generously contributed his wisdom and talent to Columbia and higher education for the advancement of human welfare and equality in Amer
 RUSSO-Vito. The Westchester Community Foundation's present and former Board Members and staff extend deepest sympathy to the family of Vito Russo. The example of his selfless generosity and concern for others and the community helped build this organization. We are not only grateful, we sha
 SCHEUING-Richard Woodward. Of Locust, NJ, died Aug. 2, 1998 at his residence. He retired in 1985 as executive vice president of Sabin Robbins Paper Co., Cincinnati, after 32 years. He was the originator of the ''Fleet Week'' ceremonies in New York Harbor, starting in 1988. He was the former
 STEARNS-Malcolm, Jr. Of Haddam, CT and Point 'O' Woods, NY, beloved husband of Julia Black Stearns. Died suddenly, Saturday, August 1, 1998, at Point 'O' Woods at the age of 80. The proud father of Martha K.S. Patrick, Sarah M. Stearns, Ann S. Pardun, Amanda S. Merullo, and Jennifer S. Mott
 WEISMAN-David J. Born on December 29, 1941; died August 3, 1998. Mr. Weisman was born in Bronx, New York and is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Herman Weisman. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and sister.       
 Everett Hafner, a founding dean of Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., died on Sunday when the plane he was piloting crashed near Worthington, Mass. He was 78 and lived in Williamsburg, Mass. The cause of the crash was under investigation, the authorities said. Hampshire Co
 Jacek Kalabinski, a Polish journalist and former opposition figure who worked in the United States after fleeing his native land in 1983, died on July 24 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 59. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kalabinski was the Washington
 John Seabury Thomson, an Asia analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency who was better known for his avocation as an untiring proponent of canoeing, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack that Mr. T
 Leslie B. Worthington, who as president of the United States Steel Corporation guided the company out of a prolonged steelworkers' strike and into a confrontation with President John F. Kennedy over the industry's 's attempt to raise steel prices, died Monday at his home in Ligonier, Pa. He
 CARPINO-Dr. Joseph J. Died August 4, 1998. Emeritus Professor of Philosophy, Saint Francis College, Brooklyn, New York, where he taught for over thirty-five years. He was a master of dialogues and wit, gratefully remembered by his colleagues and students for his devotion to helping them say
 HAYNES-Norman A. His Loving Family expresses with God's Grace the passing of a truly great human being. Norman, affectionately known as ''ACE'', walked the beat on 125th street in Harlem as a NYC Policeman for over 25 years. He spent his retirement travelling and as an active member of the 
 LESHOWITZ-Jed. Died August 2, 1998. Son of Edward and the late Esther Leshowitz. Brother of Sue Sandson and husband of Audrey Weber. Beloved uncle of Chela, Danny and Liza. Gathering for friends and family on Saturday, August 8, at 11 AM at Jed's home. Contributions in his memory may be mad
 MERKEN-Allan L., 63. Of Jupiter, Florida, August 5th, 1998, after a courageous battle against lung cancer. Beloved husband of Dale; devoted father of Ross (Eileen), and Ronnie; brother, uncle, and best friend. Donations in his memory may be made to MSKCC, NY, or Good Samaritan Hospital Canc
 SCHEPPS-Aaron David (Archie). Born March 13, 1924, died August 5, 1998, of Elberon, NJ, and NYC. Beloved husband and best friend of Carol. Father of Celia, Stuart and Benjamin. Stepfather of Robert (Emily) Glicksman, Nancy (Charles) Mannheimer, John (Nancy) Glicksman. Brother of J. Lew and 
 SCHOOLMAN-Donald. Of Ossining, died July 30, 1998. He was 86. He is survived by his wife, Freda Baran, his brother Eli, son William, daughter Carlota and grand and great-grandchildren.       
 STEARNS-Malcolm Jr. The Art & Antique Dealers League of America mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Malcolm Stearns Jr. of Hobart House whose sage counsel enlightened us all. The League wishes to express its sympathy to his family. STEARNS-Malcolm, Jr. The Antiques Council deepl
 TIERS-Lindley W. Devoted husband of the late Sarah Morgan Gardner Tiers. Passed away on July 29, 1998. He was a nationally ranked tennis player in the late 1930's. During his career with CitiBank, he was posted to China, India and Singapore. Memorial contributions may be made to the Sarah G
 A. William Olsen Jr., whose more than two decades as headmaster of the Hotchkiss School brought coeducation and robust expansion to that preparatory boarding school in Lakeville, Conn., died July 30 at his home in Lakeville. He was 77. The cause was cancer, the school reported.     
 Eugene Aserinsky, a pioneer in sleep studies, died on July 22 when his car hit a tree north of San Diego. He was 77 and lived in Escondido, Calif. In 1953, for his Ph.D. in physiology at the University of Chicago, Dr. Aserinsky produced his ground-breaking thesis, ''Eye Movements Du
 Jack Brickhouse, whose avuncular cheer and exuberant storytelling imbued his calls of more than 5,000 Chicago Cubs and White Sox games, died of cardiac arrest at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago yesterday, said a spokeswoman. He was 82. Within six months, Chicago fans have lost two be
 CHASON-Herbert S. Eighty, on August 6, 1998, of Harrison, NY. Beloved husband of Phoebe. Loving father of Betty, Mark & Debra. Adoring grandfather of Dylan, Heidi, Martin, Nicolas, William, Skyler & Glenn. Devoted brother of Stanley. You'll live forever in our hearts. Funeral services to be
 DEVAULTIER - Richard. We mourn with sorrow the passing of a beloved founding member. His voice and friendship will be missed by us all. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family and many friends. John Daly Goodwin, Music Director New York Choral Society       
 KAISER-Richard Jack. In Scarsdale, New York on August 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Lynne MacQuarrie. Cherished father of Charlotte, Joseph, Martha and Henry. Dear Brother and Brother-in-Law of Marilyn & the late Paul Kaiser, Marjorie and Robert Cracower. Son of the late Hedwig and the late M
 KIRKPATRICK-Patrick ''Kirk.'' On Aug. 3. A veteran executive of the Cruise and Travel industries. From 1975-1983, Kirk was General Manager of Norwegian America Line's North American operations. In 1985 he became Executive Director of Loews Corporations' Grande Collection of Hotels. In 1987 
 LESHOWITZ-Jed. Died August 2, 1998. Son of Edward and the late Esther Leshowitz. Brother of Sue Sandson and husband of Audrey Weber. Beloved uncle of Chela, Danny and Liza. Gathering for friends and family on Saturday, August 8, at 11 AM at Jed's home. Contributions in his memory may be mad
 MERKEN-Allan L., 63. Of Jupiter, Florida, August 5th, 1998, after a courageous battle against lung cancer. Beloved husband of Dale; devoted father of Ross (Eileen), and Ronnie; brother, uncle, and best friend. Donations in his memory may be made to MSKCC, NY, or Good Samaritan Hospital Canc
 SHAWHAN-Samuel F. Jr. Of Potomac, Md., on August 4, 1998. Devoted and loving husband of Ruth A. (nee Edwards). Loving father of Kevin . Dear brother of Patsy Barclay. Uncle of Marilyn, Kathy, and Thomas. A memorial service will be held at a future date. SHAWHAN-Samuel F. Jr. A dear 
 STILLERMAN-Maxwell, M.D. It is with great sorrow that we express our condolences to the family of Max Stillerman, M.D., a Founding Physician of North Shore University Hospital who made significant contributions to research in pediatric infectious diseases. We extend our deepest sympathies a
 STOLL-John B., DDS. It is with sadness that the Medical Board of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center notes the passing of their long-time friend and colleague Dr. John B. Stoll. Dr. Stoll joined the staff of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases in 1970 and was an Emeritus sta
 YOUNGDAHL-C. Richard. Of Tequesta, Florida. Formerly of Short Hills, NJ, August 6, 1998. Husband of Catherine Youngdahl (nee Mason), father of Carl R. Youngdahl Jr of Bloomington, Minn, Lee R. Youngdahl (Joan) of Short Hills, NJ, John M. Youngdahl (Catherine) of Summit, NJ, Karen E. Youngda
 LISKIN-Elliot. August 7th. The warmth of his laughter, his wisdom, vitality, integrity, loving ways and ''The memories linger on.'' Grandchildren, Children, Joyc       
 Richie Powers, whose 23 years as a National Basketball Association referee ended in bitterness, died last Friday in Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown, Pa., where he lived. He was 67. His sister and only survivor, Alice T. Powers of White Plains, said he suffered a stroke the day b
 Todor Zhivkov, the Communist ruler of Bulgaria from 1954 until his ouster in 1989, died on Wednesday in Sofia, the capital. He was 86. Mr. Zhivkov, the longest-serving leader in the old Soviet bloc and last prominent survivor of its old guard,  was a conventional party apparatchik. 
 Eldon Shamblin, a gifted rhythm guitarist who quietly helped Bob Wills's Texas Playboys with their influential merger of big-band jazz and old-time Southwestern fiddle music, died on Wednesday at a rest home in Sapulpa, Okla. He was 82. Born and raised in Weatherford, Okla., he got 
 CABALLES-Robert. Zabar's & Co., the Zabar family and the employees of Zabar's are greatly saddened by the loss of Robert Caballes, our Controller and friend, on August 7, 1998. His dignity, strength and support will never be forgotten. We send love to his wife, Connie, his daughter, Michell
 CHASON-Herbert S., 80. Died at home on August 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Phoebe. Loving father of Betty, Mark and Debra. Adoring grandfather of Dylan, Heidi, Martin, Nicolas, William, Skyler and Glenn. Devoted brother of Stanley. You'll live forever in our hearts. Funeral services to be he
 CONYNGHAM-Richard J. age 72 of Wyckoff, New Jersey, formerly of Glenview, IL died on Thursday. Mr. Conyngham was V.P. of Sales for Burlington Industries and J.P. Stevens for many years before becoming an Adjunct Professor of Business at St. Peter's College, Jersey City. He was past presiden
 FRIEDMAN-David, 94. Died peacefully on August 4. Educator, lawyer and social activist. Co-founder and director of The Rugby School, a school for handicapped children. Loving husband to his first wife, Henrietta. Equally devoted to his second wife, Jeannette. Father of Arnold (husband to The
 GRANOWITZ-Sanford M. On August 5, 1998 in Miami, Florida, formerly of New York City. Loving husband of Fern, loving father of Leslie, Amy, and Andrew. Loving step-father of Ellen and Beth and cherished grandfather of Nichols, Keith, Cynthia, Anya and Dean. Private services. Please send cont
 KESSLER-Richard W., M.D. Of Point Pleasant, New Jersey on August 6th, 1998. Beloved husband of Walpurga (Goller). Father of Richard H., Hilary Palmer, Jean Wolf and Elizabeth Caporale. Brother of Alfred. Grandfather of 7, great-grandfather of 4. Private memorial services will be held at the
 LESHOWITZ-Jed. Died August 2, 1998. Son of Edward and the late Esther Leshowitz. Brother of Sue Sandson and husband of Audrey Weber. Beloved uncle of Chela, Danny and Liza. Gathering for friends and family on Saturday, August 8, at 11 AM at Jed's home. Contributions in his memory may be mad
 OELBAUM-Robert E. On August 7, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Inge. Loving father of Susan O. Gans and Peggy Ross. Adoring grandfather of Jason and Stacy. Cherished brother of Doris Heyman & the late Adele Weill. Devoted companion of Miriam Nahm. Services at Frank E. Campell, 1076 Madiso
 WALSH-Reverend Michael J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired parochial vicor of St. Anthony of Padua Church, 133-25 128th Street, S. Ozone Park on August 7. Reposing at the church, Sunday, August 9 from 7-9 P.M., Monday, August 10 from 2-5 P.M. Mass of transferral at
 YOUNGDAHL-C. Richard. Of Tequesta, Florida. Formerly of Short Hills, NJ, August 6, 1998. Husband of Catherine Youngdahl (nee Mason), father of Carl R. Youngdahl Jr of Bloomington, Minn, Lee R. Youngdahl (Joan) of Short Hills, NJ, John M. Youngdahl (Catherine) of Summit, NJ, Karen E. Youngda
 Rudel Briscoe, a Harlem-bred painter who adored art, but loved women and making a living so much that he made a flamboyant detour into the world of high-fashion hairdressing, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Briscoe, who eventually returned to his roots and reconciled hi
 Serge Golovine, a star of the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas in the 1950's who was considered one of the most brilliant dancers of his generation, died on July 31 at the Hopital Ambroise-Pare in Paris. He was 73 and lived in Paris. The cause was complications from a heart bypass 
 Theodore Apstein, a writer for theater, films and television, died on July 26 in Los Angeles. He was 80 and lived in Brentwood, Calif. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Apstein's theater work included ''The Innkeepers,'' which was produced on Broadway in 1956. Dir
 Rabbi Leibish Lefkowitz, an important figure in the organization of Kiryas Joel, the politically powerful Satmar Hasidic community in Orange County, N.Y., that has repeatedly gone to court over the issue of public financing for its religiously based schools, died on Aug. 1 at Mount Sinai Me
 Max Kaplan, a scholarly sociologist and musician who made the study of leisure a large part of an industrious life's work, died on Tuesday at a hospice in La Grange, Ga. He was 87 and lived at the Merry Oaks, his home in Georgia's rural Meriwether County. Dr. Kaplan's family said he
 BANDER-Ingram. Age 85, formerly of Queens, NY, died on August 5, 1998, in Baton Rouge, LA. He was a senior executive with the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York from 1963 to 1980, when he retired to Palm Springs, CA. There he served as a volunteer with the Riverside County Mental Heal
 BEDERSON-Edwin M., August 4. We who loved him in life would not lose him in death. Alyse, Stephen, Emily, Neal, Eric       
 BROWN-Harold B. Age 70, of Marietta, GA, died Thursday, August 6, 1998. Mr. Brown was a New York native and lived in Marietta for seven years. He was an entrepreneur in the jewelry business. He is survived by his sons, Harold J. Brown and Gerald T. Brown, both of Chattanooga, TN. A memorial
 CABALLES-Robert. Zabar's & Co., the Zabar family and the employees of Zabar's are greatly saddened by the loss of Robert Caballes, our Controller and friend, on August 7, 1998. His dignity, strength and support will never be forgotten. We send love to his wife, Connie, his daughter, Michell
 FONTRIER-Gabriel. Beloved husband of Mary, devoted father of Bunny, Toinette, Suzanne, and Michele passed away on August 5 after a long illness. He also leaves his sister, Celeste, and his nephew, David. He was Professor Emeritus at Queens College, editor/music critic for the L.I. Press and
 GALLANT-William. Of Bala Cynwyd, PA, on August 7, 1998. Son of Nancy Ash and Mark Gallant, brother of Emily, grandson of Lydia Gallant and Helen and Arthur Ash. Nephew of Jane Ash and Barbara and Scott Gallant, friend of so many. Adored and cherished by all. We will miss him more than we ca
 HAYNES-Norman A. His Loving Family expresses with God's Grace the passing of a truly great human being. Norman, affectionately known as ''ACE'', walked the beat on 125th street in Harlem as a NYC Policeman for over 25 years. He spent his retirement travelling and as an active member of the 
 KAISER-Richard. The entire Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center community joins together in mourning the passing of our dear friend Richard Kaiser. Dean Herbert Pardes acknowledges with gratitude Mr. Kaiser's dedication to the advancement of quality medical care and academic research. Mr. K
 LAWRENCE-Bernard A. Son of Ada and Morris Cohen; died at home in Elizaville, NY on August 7, 1998 and is survived by his brother Matthew and his beloved family of friends. Bernie was a successful, accomplished commercial photographer in Manhattan. After he retired from commercial photograph
 OELBAUM-Robert E. On August 7, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Inge. Loving father of Susan O. Gans and Peggy Ross. Adoring grandfather of Jason and Stacy. Cherished brother of Doris Heyman & the late Adele Weill. Devoted companion of Miriam Nahm. Services at Frank E. Campell, 1076 Madiso
 OLINER-Oskar. The Touro College Faculty and Board extends to Mr. Martin Oliner, distinguished member of our Board of Trustees, its deepfelt condolences on the passing of his beloved father, Mr. Oskar Oliner. Mr. Oskar Oliner was an outstanding product of the Polish Jewish community. His lif
 ROTH-Joseph (Joska). On August 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Carole. Loving father of Andrew and Peter. Cherished father-in-law of Trisha and Noreen. Adored grandfather of Samantha, Suzanna, Nancy, Michael and baby Ryan. Devoted brother-in-law of Sara Barna and Margaret Reti. Caring uncle of 
 ROTHBLUM-Martin S. Died peacefully at home. He was a courageous man who battled his illness with dignity and humor, never losing touch with the importance of family & friends. Loving husband of Alice. Dearly beloved father to Daniel & Jerry, Margery and John Udell, Nancy and Randy Bradbury.
 SHAWHAN-Samuel F. Jr. Of Potomac, Md., on August 4, 1998. Devoted and loving husband of Ruth A. (nee Edwards). Loving father of Kevin . Dear brother of Patsy Barclay. Uncle of Marilyn, Kathy, and Thomas. A memorial service will be held at a future date. SHAWHAN-Samuel F. Jr. A dear 
 STILLERMAN-Maxwell, M.D., of Ft. Lauderdale and East Hampton, died on August 5, 1998 at age 89. Beloved husband of Carolyn, devoted father to Robbie Stillerman, Rosalind and Michael Seiden, and Diane Haut. Loving grandfather to Marc, Carolyn and Rachel. A selfeffacing, gentle man, he consci
 TORA-Shinichiro. Popular Photography Magazine's present and past staff celebrate the life of our teacher, friend, illustrator, and highly talented art director for over 35 years, who left us August 3 to be with the greatest artist of all. Graphic designer, photographer, lecturer, and inspir
 WISE-Harold. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend Harold and send to June and Shera our deepest expression of love. Harold was a mentor to so many of us and left a far reaching legacy. He founded the Residency Program in Social Medicine at Montefiore, the first of its kind in the cou
 YOUNGDAHL-C. Richard. Of Tequesta, Florida. Formerly of Short Hills, NJ, August 6, 1998. Husband of Catherine Youngdahl (nee Mason), father of Carl R. Youngdahl Jr of Bloomington, Minn, Lee R. Youngdahl (Joan) of Short Hills, NJ, John M. Youngdahl (Catherine) of Summit, NJ, Karen E. Youngda
 VIEYRA-Charles L. 12/10/75-8/7/93 We have two deaths: first is when our body dies, and our second death is when the last of all who knew us dies. It has been 5 years. Charles' sisters, Emily and Cathy Vieyra; his mother, Cathy Donovan       
 COOPERBERG-Irving 18 AV 5757 As long as we live, he too will live; for he is now a part of us. As we remember him. Lou       
 LISKIN-Elliot. August 7th. The warmth of his laughter, his wisdom, vitality, integrity, loving ways and ''The memories linger on.'' Grandchildren, Children, Joyce       
 SISKIN-Samd/ 80. Passed away on August 4, 1998 in Hallandale, Fl. A gentle man of dignity & character, he was loved and respected by his family and friends. Survived by his loving children, Susan and Darrell Mahler, Jay and Penny Siskin, Lee and Sylvia Van Damm, Mitzie and Bill Gillman and 
 Thomas Steel, a San Francisco lawyer who took on some of the most widely followed cases in California involving free speech, freedom of religion and the civil rights of minorities, died at a San Francisco hospital on July 18. He was 48. He died of complications from AIDS, a family m
 Vance I. Oyama, a biochemist whose laboratory-in-a-shoe-box aboard the Mars landers two decades ago helped fuel debate about the existence of life on that planet, died on July 27 at his home in Middletown, Calif. He was 76. Mr. Oyama, the former chief of the life-detection branch at
 Andre Weil, a former professor at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., whose work in algebraic geometry and number theory recast the basics of mathematics, died Thursday at his home in Princeton. He was 92. At the institute, Dr. Weil was considered an intellectual pe
 Harry Scharaga, who did such a good job clearing snow off the streets of Queens in 1968 that he may have helped doom Mayor John V. Lindsay's Presidential aspirations in 1969, died on July 28 at his home in Lauderdale Lakes, Fla. He was 88 and had retired as First Deputy Sanitation Commissio
 Henry Butler, a versatile director and stager who was best known for his work in opera, died on Aug. 1 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in a nursing home in Greenwich Village. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said Marvin David Levy, a colleague.     
 Hershel L. Herzog, a pharmaceutical executive instrumental in developing several popular antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs, died on Aug. 4 at his daughter's home in Coopersburg, Pa. He was 74. The cause of death was Lou Gehrig's disease, said his daughter, Laura J. Herzog.    
 DUFFY-Sherwood T., Sr. 73, retired architect. Died August 5, 1998 in Lenox Hill Hospital. Mr. Duffy is survived by his wife Kathryn Duffy; two children Jimmie Ann Duffy and Sherwood T. Duffy, Jr.; daughter-in-law Elizabeth Duffy and granddaughter Meredith Lee Duffy. He will be especially mi
 QUINN-Paddy. On August 8, 1998. It is a sad day with the passing of Paddy Quinn for Sheila and all those who knew and loved him. He will be so missed forever in our hearts. Come and say goodbye to Paddy at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Monday and Tuesday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM.
 REISNER-Robert I., D.D.S. On August 8, 1998. Of Chappaqua, NY. Husband of Michele (Mayville) Reisner. Father of Casey Reisner. Son of Dorothy (Mittleman) Reisner. Brother of Dorothy Danziger. Funeral service Monday (today), 3:00 PM, at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY. Interment priv
 ROTH-Joseph (Joska). On August 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Carole. Loving father of Andrew and Peter. Cherished father-in-law of Trisha and Noreen. Adored grandfather of Samantha, Suzanna, Nancy, Michael and baby Ryan. Devoted brother-in-law of Sara Barna and Margaret Reti. Caring uncle of 
 RUSS-Isidore. 89, died unexpectedly on August 8, 1998, in Madison, WI. Beloved husband of the late Jeanette Deutscher Russ and Alice Kimmel Russ. Adored father of Rosalyn Hershkowitz and Myrna Russ and grandfather of Elaine Yasuna and Debra Hershkowitz. For over 35 years, he was an outstand
 TALEPOROS-Plato. A memorial service will be held at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave., NY, NY at 6 PM on Wednesday, August 12, 1998. He will be greatly missed by his wife Betsy and his children Aram, Zoe and Doron.       
 State Senator Jess Joseph Present, a Republican leader from upstate New York who spent more than three decades in the State Legislature, died on Saturday at his home in Bemus Point, N.Y., near his native Jamestown. He was 77. A heart attack was the apparent cause, the Senate press o
 ELSNER-Jerry. Died after a long illness on August 9. He left behind his much cherished wife, Ruth, his beloved children, Jeffrey and Pamela, and their spouses, Jackie and Andy. Devoted Opa to his three angel grandchildren, Michelle, Julia, and Nikki, who gave him much joy. He also left his 
 GOLDFEDER-Samuel, 76. Of Pompano Beach, FL., died August 9, 1998. He is survived by his wife Joyce, daughter Sue, son and daughter-in-law William and Sheri, grandchildren Amy, Danielle and Brian & sisters Mildred and Ruth. Graveside service Wednesday, August 12, 1PM, Beth David Cemetery, El
 Hill-Howard M., 76. Of Gallatin, New York. Died on August 8 at Sharon Hospital, Sharon, Conn. Husband of Jane Hill and father of Jane Forte, Lillian Hill, Susan Deitchman, Mary Alice Buckley, Howard ''Butch'' Hill, Theodore Hill, Ernest Hill, Richard Hill and William Hill. Brother of Harold
 KOFFLER-David, M.D. It is with great sorrow that the Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our highly exteemed and beloved colleague. Dr. Koffler joined the staff in 1958, and for twenty years distinguished himself as pathologist, scientist and teacher. We extend our sincere condolences 
 MAHONEY-Timothy J., Senior. His colleagues and friends at Marsh & McLennan Companies mourn Tim's passing on Thursday August 6th and express our deepest condolences to his family. Tim began a distinguished career in the Risk and Insurance Services field in 1960 and joined Marsh & McLennan in
 MILANESE-Edward J. On August 8, 1998. 79 years. His father, Edward Milla was the first Staff Photographer for the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Survived by his sister, Marie Altpeter, four nephews, one niece and several grand-nephews and grand-nieces. Avid reader of The New York Times for ove
 PALM-Michael D. Of New York City, at his home in Telluride, CO., on August 7, 1998, of heart failure caused by complications from AIDS. Mr. Palm was the co-founder of Centre Reinsurance. Founded in 1988, Centre Reinsurance grew to become a major diversified provider of financial services an
 QUINN-Paddy. On August 8, 1998. It is a sad day with the passing of Paddy Quinn for Sheila and all those who knew and loved him. He will be so missed forever in our hearts. Come and say goodbye to Paddy at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday and Tuesday, 2-5 and 7-
 SAPERSTEIN-Louis. At 93 years. Loving husband of Sara. Devoted father of Toby Davidson and the late Michael Saperstein. Cherished grandfather of Jim, Eileen, Elizabeth and Alice. Caring brother of Dorothy Morell, Sylvia Schulberg, and the late Mildred Wolf. Funeral service Tuesday 12 noon a
 VAN DYNE-A. Robert, 80. Of North Miami Beach, FL, passed away on August 9, 1998. Survived by his beloved wife Gladys, sons Martin, Walter and Paul, brother Joseph and sister Rose. Father-inlaw of Phyllis and Zobene, loving grandfather to Joshua, Matthew, Sonia, Alex, Goldie, Natasha, Joey, 
 The Rev. Raymond E. Brown, an internationally influential Roman Catholic biblical scholar who taught at Union Theological Seminary for two decades, died on Saturday in Sequoia Hospital in Redwood City, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Menlo Park, Calif. The cause was a heart attack, wh
 Thomas M. Mulry, who was the senior member of the New York public school system's Bureau of Attendance in 1985, when he publicly criticized the schools' policies for handling absenteeism, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in the Bronx all his life. 
 Angelo Zuccotti, who wielded the velvet rope at El Morocco with such authority and finesse that he helped define the very line between cafe society and social Siberia at New York's most storied supper club, died on Sunday at his home in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 89 and had operated a bed and
 Anthony J. Genovesi, a State Assemblyman and powerful political force in Brooklyn Democratic politics for two decades, was killed on Monday night in a one-car accident about 50 miles north of New York City. Mr. Genovesi, 61, and his 26-year-old daughter, Lara, were returning from a 
 CHARACH-Bernard. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away suddenly on August 9, 1998. He was widely known and respected in his field of small leather goods & handbags.       
 FONTRIER-Gabriel. The Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College/CUNY deeply mourns the passing of its Professor Emeritus on August 5, 1998, and extends its deepest sympathy to his wife, May, and their four daughters. Prof. Fontrier joined the music faculty in 1947 after receiving degr
 GROSSMAN-Arthur, 62. Of Red Bank, New Jersey. On Tuesday, August 11, at home. Mr. Grossman was the owner and operator of Arlo Print and Copy Service, Red Bank, since 1977. Prior to that, he was employed as Controller and Cost Accountant, IFF, Union Beach, NJ. He was a leader and drummer of 
 HALBREICH-Stanley I. On August 11, 1998. Beloved husband of Ada. Loving brother of Roslyn Smith and brother-in-law of Robert Smith. Dear uncle of Penny Novick, Amy and Howard Smith, and Sandy Robbins. Services Thursday 9:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. HAL
 KESSLER-Len. 71. Died on Sunday, August 9, 1998, of natural causes at his home in West Palm Beach, FL. Retired, Len was a NY public relations man par excellence. He is survived by his brother Ben, his daughter Lise, and his son Andreas. A memorial service will be held at 4 P.M., today at Ca
 LACHER-Arthur. Dedicated physician and devoted Jew who served man and God with abiding grace and love. Taken in the prime of life from his loving wife, Ellen, his adoring children, Jason, Rebecca and Dr. Jonas Leibowitz and granddaughter Nina Joy. They together with his beloved mother, Lee 
 MARCUS-Herman, on August 10, 1998, in his 88th year. Devoted husband of the late Ruth Marcus. Beloved father of Jo-Ann Kalb and Linda Marcus Sherry. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan and Jamie Kalb, and Dana Sherry. Graveside service Wednesday 11AM, Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY.       
 PALM-Michael D. The Board of Directors of Classical Action: Performing Arts Against AIDS and Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS extend their heartfelt sympathy to the family, friends and colleagues of Michael Palm, whose leadership and generosity in the fight against HIV/AIDS and in support 
 PULLO-Rev. Francis S. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired parochial vicar of Corpus Christi Church, Woodside, August 10. Reposing at Maloney's Hauppauge Funeral Home, 840 Wheeler Road (Route 111), Hauppage, L.I., Wednesday and Thursday, August 12 and 13, from 2 to 4 a
 RUBENSTEIN-Jacob Israel, Rabbi. The New York Board of Rabbis mourns the passing of its cherished member. May his family and congregation be comforted. Rabbi Marc Schneier, President Rabbi Gilbert Rosenthal, Exec. VP Armand Lindenbaum, President Advisory Council       
 SCHLESSINGER-Paul. The Doctors and Staff of SLPT MD PC mourn the passing of Paul J. R. Schlessinger, MD. Our deepest sympathies to his family. Dr. Schlessinger was the founder of this OB/GYN practice in 1950. Until his retirement he was a dedicated and concerned physician. He will be missed
 SHATZ-Robert H., 79. Died at his home in Palo Alto, California, on August 4, 1998. Mr. Shatz had a productive and varied career in aeronautics and astronautics, energy resources and policy, and the design of high speed trains and boats. While at United Aircraft he led the design team for th
 TIERNAN-Martin Thomas. Of Essex Fells, N.J. on August 9, 1998. Husband of the late Katharine B. (nee Campbell). Devoted father of Katharine Tiernan Rooney of Cherry Hills Village, CO., M. Thomas Tiernan Jr. of Orleans, MA. and Robert F. Tiernan of Ocean Ridge, FL. Dear brother of Nancy Tier
 Aaron Birnbaum, a New York dress manufacturer who took up painting after he retired and found himself hailed as an exceptional folk artist at the age of 100, died on Friday at the Crown Nursing Home in Brooklyn. He was 103. Mr. Birnbaum was one of the last of the 20th-century ''memo
 Benny Waters, a saxophonist, clarinetist and singer who was the country's oldest touring jazz musician, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 96 and had recently moved to Columbia from New York City. Mr. Waters, old enough to have taught clarinet to an original membe
 ANDERSON-Paul J., physician, journal editor, educator. Died peacefully, at home in New York on Tuesday August 11, 1998 after a brief battle with cancer. His energy, intelligence, creativity, charm and wit will be remembered by his children and the friends, colleagues, students and countless
 BROWN-Raymond E., S.S. The Board of Directors, the Faculty and Staff of Union Theological Seminary in New York City are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our beloved colleague and friend, Raymond E. Brown. For almost two decades Professor Brown blessed Union Theological Seminary with 
 CHAO-Shih Hui, 85. Passed away after a long illness on August 11, 1998. Beloved husband of Huai Tung Chang; father of the late Dr. Solan Chao and of Stanley Chao and Anna Pai; grandfather of Carolyn and Patricia Ann Chao and Benjamin and Michael Pai; great grandfather of James Fox and Leann
 DERBY-Bennett Marsh, M.D. The Faculty and Staff of New York University Medical Center deeply mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague, Bennett Marsh Derby, M.D., Professor of Clinical Neurology and Clinical Pathology at NYU School of Medicine. Dr. Derby had been a Faculty Member in The Dep
 GENOVESI-Assemblyman Anthony. The Department of Surgery, Maimonides Medical Center, expresses profound sorrow on the sudden and untimely passing of Assemblyman Anthony Genovesi, father of our colleague and friend, Dr. Mark Genovesi. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Genovesi
 GOTTESMAN-Rabbi Neal. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of its member. We extend profound condolences to his wife Rita and daughter Shoshana Stadtmauer and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Sc
 GOTTESMAN - Rabbi Yitzchak Nissan. On August 12, 1998. Beloved husband of Rita; loving father of Shoshana; dear father-in-law of David Stadtmauer; revered grandfather of Marc, Steven, Jeffrey and Karen. His enormous strength and dedication to his family will live on as an inspiration to his
 HALBREICH-Stanley I. On August 11, 1998. Beloved husband of Ada. Loving brother of Roslyn Smith and brother-in-law of Robert Smith. Dear uncle of Penny Novick, Amy and Howard Smith, and Sandy Robbins. Services Thursday 9:45AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. HA
 HINDELS-Dr. George W. On August 12, 1998, of Scarsdale, New York, husband of the late Constance E. (nee Bata), father of Dorothy J. Brown, and James H. Hindels, grandfather of Jordana, Rebecca, Sarah, Samuel, and Naomi. Relatives and friends are invited to the funeral services Friday 10:30 
 HOGAN-William E. New York University Law School professor of law emeritus and a leading thinker in the field of contracts and commercial law, died on July 31 in Montreal, Canada. He was 70 and lived in Southbury, Connecticut and in Longboat Key, Florida. Professor Hogan will be most remembe
 LEMLE-Henry C, born July 1, 1910 died August 11, 1998. Henry lived most of his life in NY and was actively engaged in real estate and insurance. After his retirement he moved to Jackson Hole, Wyoming where he spent the remainder of his days enjoying the beauty of the mountains and the Weste
 LEVY-Hyman, M.D., 92. Died at home. Beloved husband of Muriel. Loving father of Lauren (Brian Gilmour) and Jerrold. Grandfather of Theowen, Susanah & Edward, brother of Phillip Levy of Rochester. Beloved uncle of many nieces & nephews. Violinist & practicing physician in cardiology at Mt. S
 McBRIDE-Edward Archer. Of Manhattan. On August 5, 1998 at the age of 73. Decorated W.W. II veteran; recipient of 3 bronze stars, one silver star and the Purple Heart. Five-year President of the 90th Division Association. 17-year Police Auxiliary Captain. Survived by his daughter Elizabeth, 
 PALM-Michael D. The Board, Staff and Volunteers of the Treatment Action Group mourn the passing of Michael Palm. His passion and commitment to focused, intelligent and effective solutions for the AIDS crisis has left an enduring legacy. Michael's visionary generosity helped lay the basis fo
 PUCHALL-Henry. On August 11th, 1998, age 91. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Carl (Renee), Joyce (Lowell). Adored grandfather of Jill, Holly, Eve, Kim and Lauri and 10 great grandchildren. His family was both his strength and motivation for his long career as a successful builder
 TIERNAN-Martin Thomas. Of Essex Fells, N.J. on August 9, 1998. Husband of the late Katharine B. (nee Campbell). Devoted father of Katharine Tiernan Rooney of Cherry Hills Village, CO., M. Thomas Tiernan Jr. of Orleans, MA. and Robert F. Tiernan of Ocean Ridge, FL. Dear brother of Nancy Tier
 WISE-Harold. We deeply mourn the loss of our visionary founder, Dr. Harold Wise, who pioneered family-centered health care at the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Health Center in the South Bronx and the Valentine Lane Family Practice in Yonkers. When he could not find other physicians who shared
 Isaac N. P. Stokes, a lawyer who worked on New Deal legislation regulating securities brokerage firms and also helped in the creation of the United Nations and the rebuilding of Europe after World War II, died on Aug. 4 at a retirement home in Hanover, N.H., a son, Thomas, said. He was 91. 
 Michael D. Palm, a former English teacher who made a fortune in reinsurance -- the business of sharing the risk of insurance companies -- and then contributed millions to benefit the arts, gay rights and AIDS treatment, died last Friday at his home in Telluride, Colo. He was 47 years old an
 Ned Gillette of Sun Valley, Idaho, a 53-year-old adventurer, mountain climber, sailor, skier, photographer, journalist and author, was shot to death the night of Aug. 5 while sleeping in a tent in Kashmir, the disputed northern region between India and Pakistan. His wife, Suzy Patte
 ANDERSON-Paul J. Physician, journal editor, educator. Died peacefully at home in New York on Tuesday August 11, 1998 after a brief battle with cancer. His energy, intelligence, creativity, charm and wit will be remembered by his children and the friends, colleagues, students and countless o
 BRADY-John F. Died August 11, 1998. Born September 2, 1929 in Brooklyn, NY. Went to sea at the age of sixteen with U.S. Army Transport Service (now Military Sealift Command) for two years. Enlisted in the U.S. Navy in Seattle, WA. in December 1947. Served with distinction in China & Japan. 
 BROCK-Sam. On August 12, 1998 of Jamesburg, NJ. Beloved husband of Betty. Devoted father of Ellen and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer and Rebecca. He will be in our hearts forever. Graveside services 1PM, Friday, August 14th, Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, New Jersey.       
 FLEISHER-Harold, Ph.D. The Covenant Foundation mourns the passing of Dr. Harold Fleisher, father-in-law of Dr. Jonathan S. Woocher, a founding member of our Board of Directors. A man of keen intellect and ready wit, Hal Fleisher will be missed by all who knew him. Our condolences to Jon, Sh
 HALBREICH-Stanley I. Littlefield, Adams & Company mourns the loss of Stanley I. Halbreich, its President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Mr. Halbreich passed away August 11, 1998. The officers, management, employees and shareholders will miss his devotion, energy, leader
 HINDELS-Dr. George W. On behalf of the faculty, alumni and students of the Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery (SDOS), Dean Allan J. Formicola expresses his sincere condolences to the family of Dr. George Warren Hindels, specialist in Prosthodontic Dentistry and long-time 
 KLUGER-Michael. On August 12, 1998. We mourn the passing of Michael Kluger, beloved husband, devoted father and grandfather. He was 76 years old. Mr. Kluger was born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust survivor and Talmudic scholar, Mr. Kluger led a Displaced Persons camp of 5,000 people in Salz
 LISZ-Gary Kent. Of New York City. On August 11, 1998. He was 44 years old. He was a painter, award-winning costume designer, & professor of Design at Parsons & The Fashion Institute of Technology. Mr. Lisz is survived by his parents, Dorothy & Leonard Lisz of Romney, West Virginia, his neph
 LISZ-Gary, Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board, Robert I. Lipp, President of the Board of Directors and the entire New York City Ballet deeply mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Gary Lisz. From the stylized, epochal beauty of his costume d
 McBRIDE-Edward Archer. Of Manhattan. On August 5, 1998 at the age of 73. Decorated W.W. II veteran; recipient of 3 bronze stars, one silver star and the Purple Heart. Five-year President of the 90th Division Association. 17-year Police Auxiliary Captain. Survived by his daughter Elizabeth, 
 PILLING-Charles W. On August 12. Minister of Music at Central Presbyterian Church and Director of The Central City Chorus, NYC. Survived by his partner Leonard DeCicco, his parents Jane and Alan Pilling, his brother Jack and sister-in-law Anne, his nephew Luke and niece Kris. Interment will
 ZUCCOTTI-Angelo. The Board of Directors, Medical Advisory Board and staff of The Eye-Bank For Sight Restoration extend their deepest sympathy to John Zuccotti, our ''Man of Vision'' for 1998, on the loss of his father. Anne Alexis Cote Taylor, Pres. of the Board of Directors Robert D'Amico,
 Richard Mansfield Bilby, a senior Federal judge in Arizona who presided over the 1992 case against Charles H. Keating Jr., a symbol of the savings-and-loan collapse of the 1980's, died on Tuesday as he was walking his dog near his summer home in Flagstaff, Ariz. He was 67 and a lifetime res
 Chalmers P. Wylie, who represented Ohio for 26 years in the House and helped to win approval of the Federal bailout of the savings-and-loan industry, died today in Columbus, Ohio. He was 77. Mr. Wylie had a heart attack while waiting to have a routine eye examination at Ohio State U
 Gary Lisz, a costume designer for ballet, theater and film, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 44 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Ken Daigle, his companion. Mr. Lisz was known for costumes whose easy simplicity quietly enhanced the s
 James Roland Malley, a retired F.B.I. division chief who played a central role in the investigation of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, died on Aug. 7 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 86. Mr. Malley, a 34-year veteran of the F.B.I., also served as president of the Soc
 CORWIN-Robert. Of NYC. Died on August 10, 1998 at age 47 of Cancer. Son of Harold and Anne Corwin of Stamford, CT. Also survived by Edward M. Corwin and Toni Logar of Rapid City, SD and Linda, Tom, Emily and Nathan Palmer of Milton, MA. He loved the theatre, photography and NYC. We will mis
 DAIGNAULT-Alexander T., 82. Former Director and Executive VP of Finance for W.R. Grace & Co., died August 13 at his home, 575 Osgood St., North Andover, MA. He leaves his wife Elizabeth (Kendrick) Daignault, a daughter Anne Hartman of Brookline, MA, a son Alexander T. Daignault, Jr., of Gib
 FLEISHER-Dr. Harold, 76. Of Poughkeepsie, New York. Died on August 13 of leukemia. A pioneer in computers, he retired from a thirty-seven year career at I.B.M. as an I.B.M. Fellow. Professor Emeritus of Physics, S.U.N.Y. New Paltz, he also taught at Vassar and Marist Colleges, both in Pough
 GENNET-Samuel A. On Friday, August 14, 1998. Born in Newark, NJ & lived in Verona, NJ. Beloved Husband of Pera (Nee Marion). Devoted father of Jan Gennet. Dear brother of Hilda Stern. Funeral Services are private. Graduate of New York University and Harvard Law School. Member of New Jersey 
 JACOBS-George. Died on August 13, 1998. Beloved husband of Violet Montrose. Father of Phyllis and Howard; father-in-law to Robert Smith and Arlene. Grandfather of David, Judith, Laura and Michelle; great-grandfather of Matthew, Alexander & Samuel. His memory will stay with us forever. Servi
 LISZ-Gary. The School of American Ballet notes with sadness the death of Gary Lisz, a gifted artist and friend. His designs for SAB's ''Puss In Boots'' are fondly remembered.       
 PHILLIPS-Harry. Tifereth IsraelTown and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Sylvia and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Carol J. Green, President       
 ROTHSTEIN-Dr. Sidney. Temple Israel, Lawrence, New York mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President ROTHSTEIN-Dr. Sidney. The Seawane Club records with sorrow the loss of our beloved memb
 Paul Maslin, a former real estate executive in Manhattan and the Bronx, died on Thursday in Goose Bay, Labrador, while returning to New York from a vacation that included a visit to the North Pole. Mr. Maslin, a resident of Roslyn, N.Y., and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., was 82. The cause 
 Robert M. Luby, a restaurateur who had such a down-home devotion to quality and such an accommodating string of unemployed relatives that he helped turn a small Texas cafeteria business into a $500 million chain with more than 200 restaurants in 11 states, died on Thursday at a hospital nea
 Joel Barr, an electronics engineer linked to Julius and Ethel Rosenberg who defected to the Soviet bloc in 1950 and became a leading force in the Kremlin's computer industry, died in a Moscow hospital on Aug. 1. He was 82 and had lived in St. Petersburg for many years. He died of he
 CREGG-John P. On August 14. Retired Captain, FDNY. Beloved husband of Joan (nee Barry). Devoted father of Jeannette Merola, John, Mary Brunton, Elaine, Terrence, Kathryn, Geraldine Cahill, Patrick and Philip. Also survived by fourteen grandchildren. Visiting Sunday, 2-5 PM and 7-9 PM, at M.
 DUNHAM-William B. Chamber Music America will miss the wit and wisdom of Bill Dunham, the first person to serve as Vice Chairman of CMA, the first non-musician member of the Board, and author of the organization's first history. Bill's involvement with our organization during its formative y
 ENDER-Joel. Died peacefully Saturday morning after a long illness. He was married 50 years to his devoted wife Dorothy, who passed away in November, 1996. A successful wholesale grocer, he lead a full life in retirement, enjoying world travel, a home in Spain and both tennis and golf. A man
 FLEISHER-Dr. Harold, 76. Of Poughkeepsie, New York. Died on August 13 of leukemia. A pioneer in computers, he retired from a thirty-seven year career at I.B.M. as an I.B.M. Fellow. Professor Emeritus of Physics, S.U.N.Y. New Paltz, he also taught at Vassar and Marist Colleges, both in Pough
 HARDIN-John A. Former President and Chairman of the Board of Mutual Broadcasting Corp. Died on August 1, 1998, at Mountainside Hospital, Montclair, New Jersey, after a brief illness. He was a ardent woodsman and fly fisherman and was a guide in Algonquin Park in Ontario, Canada, as a young 
 HATTORI-Tsugio. The Reece Galleries, Inc. deeply mourns the passing of our beloved artist and dearest friend, Tsugio Hattori, who died suddenly on August 10, 1998. He was forty-six years old. We have been privileged to exclusively represent Mr. Hattori for the past fourteen wonder-filled ye
 HODES-Bernard. Beloved husband of Shirley, devoted father of Margaret and Henry. Passed away last week. A science writer and editor, he was a lover of music and found great joy in life. A memorial service was held on Friday, August 14, 1998. Donations in his memory may be made to the Norwal
 MASLIN-Paul. The officers and members of The Bronx Realty Advisory Board mourn the passing of a cherished board member. The entire industry is indebted to Paul for his many contributions over the decades. Our heartfelt sympathy to Lucille, Janet and family. Ruben Klein, Chairman Michael Lau
 MERMELSTEIN-Joseph. On August 15, at age 102. Husband of the late Florence. Father of Anita (Joe Helmrich). Grandfather of Lisa (Nick Akerman) and Sara (Mark Bartok). Great-grandfather of Kira and Lily Akerman, and Anna and Rebecca Bartok. His sweet smile, eternal optimism and sunny disposi
 MISHAAN-Rudolph. August 14, 1998. Beloved husband of Linda Taylor. Loving father of Samuel, Brenda, Nathan, Jonathan and Ida. Cherished grandfather of Mairgread and Kelsey. Memorial service Sunday, August 16, 1998, 1 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. He was an artist rep
 PORTERFIELD-Alfred W. On August 14, 1998. Beloved husband of Elizabeth. Loving father of Alfred, Teresa Darby and William and grandfather of Victoria and Jill. Dear brother of Robert Porterfield and Grace Clayberger. He was a Korean War Veteran and a devoted member of the American Legion VF
 RAPPAPORT-Jerome. On July 31, 1998, Fayetteville, AK. Leaves wife Carol, son Stanford, daughter Rowena, sister Sylvia, and brother Gersten. A celebrated concert pianist and university professor, he shared his gift of music with all.       
 ROTHSTEIN-Sidney N., MD, 83. Passed away on August 13, 1998, from complications of cancer. Born in Warsaw, Poland, he escaped the Nazi onslaught and arrived in America in 1941. He enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1944, and served with distinction, earning a Bronze Star and Purple Heart. In 1946
 RYAN-Edward Cowman On August 14, 1998. Assistant Manager of Security at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and retired detective Sergeant NYCPD. Born in New York City, October 1, 1931, a graduate of Rice High School, he served with the USMC during the Korean War. Survived by son Edward, NYCPD, 
 SCHLESSINGER-Paul J.R., M.D. 77. Retired obstetrician and gynecologist, died on Monday, August, 10 of a heart attack at home in Northampton, MA. A graduate of Harvard University and Harvard Medical School, he practiced on Long Island from 1950 to 1986. At Central General Hospital in Plainvi
 SUGARMAN-Edward. On August 14, 1998. Devoted husband of Mildred. Dear father of Alice Murray. Cherished grandfather of Anna Van Doorn. Service Sunday, 11 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Masonic Brotherhood Fund.       
 WOLFSON-Theodore A. August 14, 1998. Cherished husband of Toby. Loving and devoted father of Steven and Susan. Beloved grandfather of Samantha, Ilana and David. Also survived by his adoring mother Sarah Wolfson and brother Leslie. Funeral services will be held at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. an
 Richards Ruben, an abstract painter and teacher, died on July 21 in Venice, where he was teaching in the summer art program of the Pratt Institute. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Gail Divan, said. Mr. Ruben's heavily worked surfaces
 Dr. William L. Chick, a physician and researcher who suffered from diabetes from the age of 11 and lost his own battle with it after a career dedicated to developing technology to help other diabetics, died on Monday at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 60 and lived in Welle
 Dr. Bennett M. Derby, a neuropathologist who specialized in brain injuries suffered by boxers and who persuaded New York boxing officials to establish stronger safety standards, died Aug. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his family said. He had be
 C. Richard Youngdahl, a former chairman and chief executive of Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a firm dealing in government securities, died Aug. 6 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. Mr. Youngdahl, a resident of Tequesta, Fla., was 82. The cause of death was heart disease, said a son
 Charles Roger Carlisle, a former official of GATT, died on July 26 at his home in Barnstable, Mass. He was 69. The cause of death was cancer, his wife, Nadeane, said. Mr. Carlisle served as the deputy director general of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from 1987 t
 James H. Higgins, a former chairman and chief executive of the Mellon Bank Corporation, died Aug. 1 at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 82 and lived in Sewickley, Pa. Mr. Higgins joined the bank in 1950 as an assistant treasurer. In 1971 he was named president and a directo
 Milan C. Kerno, an international investment banker who was the first non-African to become a top official of the African Development Bank, died on July 11 in Abidjan, the Ivory Coast. Mr. Kerno, who lived in London, died of heart failure, his family said. He was 67. Mr. Kerno joined
 BREEN-Daniel M., Jr. Of Staten Island, on August 14, 1998. Son of Daniel and Elizabeth (Betty Breen). Brother of Kathleen Christopher, John, Joseph, Dennis, Steven and Michael Breen. Uncle of Patrick, Taylor and Joseph, Jr. Friend of Howard Cohen, and by his companion Tom Schroeder. Funeral
 GLICK-B. William. The family and friends of B. William Glick, MD, FACS mourn the death of this most beloved man. A 1934 graduate of Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons, and Past President of the Bronx Chapter of the American College of Surgeons, Bill Glick had a healing 
 LAMB-Albert Richard, Jr. Physician, died peacefully August 13, 1998, at home in Exeter, NH, in his 85th year. Son of Albert Richard and Helen (Foster) Lamb. Formerly of New York City. Graduate of St. Bernards and Taft Schools, Yale University, Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons. 
 O'CONNOR-James V., Jr. Of Bronxville & Southampton, August 14, 1998. Survived by his wife Ethel Paulson O'Connor. Arrangements private. Contributions may be made to your favorite charity.       
 PENKOWER-Murry. The Board of Trustees, the Sisterhood, and all the members and friends of the Community Synagogue Max D. Raiskin Center mourn the passing of our esteemed Rabbi Emeritus Murry Penkower. For almost 25 years, his wisdom and eloquence were an inspiration to all of us. We extend 
 RYAN-Edward Cowman. On August 14, 1998. Assistant Manager of Security at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and retired detective Sergeant NYCPD. Born in New York City, October 1, 1931, a graduate of Rice High School, he served with the USMC during the Korean War. Survived by son Edward, NYCPD,
 STIMMEL-Arnold. Peacefully in his 84th year. Husband of Ruth. Father of Marjorie and Arlene. Brother of Florence Klein. VicePresident and Board Member of A. Wimpfheimer & Bro., Inc. Funeral private. In lieu of flowers, charitable contributions would be welcome.       
 TAFFET-William B. Age 83, a retired federal immigrations judge, died August 14th of a heart attack at his home in Boca Raton, FL. Judge Taffet graduated from New York University School of Commerce and New York University School of Law with honors. Following his retirement in 1971 from the D
 WOLFSON-Theodore A. August 14, 1998. Cherished husband of Toby. Loving and devoted father of Steven and Susan. Beloved grandfather of Samantha, Ilana and David. Also survived by his adoring mother Sarah Wolfson and brother Leslie. Funeral services were held on Sunday, August 16. Contributio
 Robert B. Baird 2d, chief executive of the Polyesther Corporation and a patron of Long Island civic and charitable organizations, died on July 22 while on vacation in Spain. He was 75 and lived in Quogue, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Less than three we
 Wallace Henry Coulter, an inventor whose experiments in a Chicago basement spawned the Coulter Corporation, one of the world's leading makers of medical diagnostic equipment of all types, died on Aug. 7 at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. A Miami resident, he was 85. He suffered 
 Frederick H. Knubel, director of public information at Columbia University and a spokesman for the university for 35 years, died on Saturday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island after emergency surgery. He was 62 and lived near the campus in Morningside Heights in Manhattan. He wa
 Harold J. Ruttenberg, a research director for the United Steelworkers of America who changed sides, became a business executive and remained outspoken on labor-management issues, died on Saturday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, said his son Edward 
 Jim Murray, whose humorous, vinegary and graceful columns for The Los Angeles Times made him one of only four sportswriters to win the Pulitzer Prize for general commentary, died Sunday of cardiac arrest at his home in Los Angeles, the newspaper reported. He was 78. Mr. Murray filed
 Julian Green, the prolific and highly idiosyncratic novelist, playwright and memoirist who was the first American elected to the Academie Francaise, France's gallery of 40 literary luminaries, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 97. Mr. Green, who had his first novel published in 1927
 ANDERSON - Carlton E., Sr. Passed away suddenly. Survived by his children, James H. Anderson II, Deborah L. Grove, Diana A. Yeisley, Carlton E. Anderson II, and grandson, James H. Anderson III. Memorial services Wednesday, 5 PM at the Trinity Church, Broadway at Wall St, NYC. In lieu of flo
 BERKMAN-Lars. With overwhelming sadness, the entire Little Red School House and Elisabeth Irwin High School community mourns the tragic death of Lars Berkman. We extend our love and deepest sympathy to his wife, Ellen Williams and daughter Katie. Little Red School House and Elisabeth Irwin 
 BLUM - Joseph. Congregaton Adereth El mourns the passing of our esteemed member Joseph Blum and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Rose Marie, to his sons Robert and Steve who served as Vice President of our Congregation for many years, to his grandchildren, to all his relatives and 
 BUTTERFIELD - Harvey Dean, the sixth Episcopal Bishop of Vermont, died on August 10th in Burlington. Bishop Butterfield was born in 1908, he graduated from the University of Vermont in 1931, and the General Theological Seminary in 1934. He married Carolyn Whitney in 1934. Rt. Reverend Butte
 CHEW-Ralph H. Of Greenwich Village, NY. Tireless friend and gifted thinker, loving partner of Denise, adored father of Sally, Katherine, and Atu, died on August 2, 1998 at 70. A dominant figure in the export trade as President of Chew International Group and NEXCO. In lieu of flowers contri
 COLUCCI-Dr. Tommaso. The Officers and Members of The Morrison Parker West Side Republican Club deeply mourn the passing of the Club's beloved leader. He served with great distinction and love for the Republican Party for countless years. He will be sorely missed. There will be a memorial se
 EISENBERG-Walter. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of The Jewish Guild For The Blind, note with deep sorrow the passing of Walter Eisenberg, father of our esteemed Board Member and colleague, Richard Eisenberg. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Margorie and to his enti
 GRIBBON-James Joseph. Artist and musician. Died peacefully at home on August 13, 1998, after a long battle with cancer. Jimmy will be remembered by his many friends for his talents in art and his accomplishments on a variety of instruments in many areas of jazz. One of the founding members 
 GUMPRECHT-Helmuth. 83. Loving husband, father, friend and therapist, died at Mt. Sinai Medical Center on Saturday, August 15th. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Gumprecht, his son, Jeffrey Gumprecht, his daughter, Eva Gumprecht, and the many others whose lives he touched deeply. He will 
 KNUBEL-Frederick H. The Faculty, Staff and Alumni of Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism mourn the untimely death of Fred Knubel, Class of 1959. We express our sympathy to his widow, Judith Leynse, Class of 1962, and her sons. Fred's quiet dignity spoke volumes on behalf of 
 NEWMAN-Norman. The Board of Directors of Peninsula Counseling Center mourn the untimely death of Norman Newman. His commitment, compassion and wisdom enriched the lives of all who knew him. Martin Zuckerbrod, President Peninsula Counseling Center       
 PALM-Michael. The Board of Directors of the Eos Orchestra and Jonathan and Sheffer Artistic Director, mourn the loss of our dear friend and fellow director Michael Palm. As a founding contributor to the Eos Orchestra his generosity to our concerts and publications was exemplary, and inspire
 SULLIVAN-Christopher M. Words are never enough. The entire staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the death of their dear friend, colleague and confidant, Christopher Sullivan. He moved through our complex world with the ease and grace of an international diplomat -assuring 
 VAN LENTEN-Barry (Bernard F. Jr.). Your friendship graced by life for more than twenty five years, be it in New York, the Pines, faroff Abidjan. Your wit, fierce intelligence made your writings a treasured gift. Your courage and strength of spirit have been inspirational. ''Who is to say, o
 WOLFSON-Theodore A. August 14, 1998. Cherished husband of Toby. Loving and devoted father of Steven and Susan. Beloved grandfather of Samantha, Ilana and David. Also survived by his adoring mother Sarah Wolfson and brother Leslie. Funeral services were held on Sunday, August 16. Contributio
 ZAMORE-Morton. Age 78. On August 16, 1998. Beloved husband to Shirley. Loving and cherished father to Walter, Roslyn and Joe. Stepfather to Judie and Ken Paul, David Cohn, Hank and Fran Cohn. Adored grandfather to all his grandchildren. Devoted brother to Sibby Steiner, Molly, Julie, and Be
 Otto Wichterle, a Czechoslovak chemist who in 1961 used an Erector set and a phonograph to produce the world's first soft contact lenses, died yesterday at his summer home in Sdradisko, a Moravian village in the Czech Republic. Dr. Wichterle, a former president of that nation's Academy of S
 AMES-Thomas-Robert, Ed. D. The consumers, staff and members of the Board of Trustees of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities mourn the passing of Dr. Thomas-Robert Ames, a passionate advocate for the rights of people with developmental disabilities to lead lives of productivi
 BURKART-Mildred R. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary Board of Directors extends heartfelt condolences to Joseph R. Burkart, Chairman Emeritus on the recent loss of his mother. Peter Frelinghuysen Chairman of the Board       
 COLUCCI-Dr. Tommaso. The New York Republican County Committee extends condolences to the family of its Vice President and dear friend Tommaso Colucci. His loyal and staunch support will always be remembered. Senator Roy M. Goodman, Chairman       
 DAIGNAULT-JR., ALEXANDER T. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of the New York Presbyterian Hospital are saddened by the passing of Alexander T. Daignault, Jr., beloved husband of Elizabeth Daignault, our esteemed Life Trustee and former President of The Auxiliary of The Society of the New York 
 DECKER-Hon. George Kelly, Jr. on August 18th (retired Family Court Judge Nassau County) of Southold, NY and Jupiter, FL, formerly of Garden City, NY. Beloved husband of Norma S. Devoted father of Stephen Eric, George Kelly Decker, III, and Kerry Anne Ducey. Brother of William K., John T. an
 FLOUNDERS-Burtis C. On August 17 at age 70. Wife Jane, daughters Betsy, Mary, Anne and son-in-law Michael mourn his passing. Graduate of Dartmouth College and Tuck Business School. Career advertising executive in NYC. Memorial service Wednesday August 26, 10AM, First Presbyterian Church of 
 LINDQUIST-Cary. Kurt S. Adler, Inc. records with profound sorrow the untimely passing of Cary Lindquist a committed and highly dedicated member of our firm. He will be sorely missed. Kurt S. Adler, Chairman Kurt S. Adler, Inc.       
 NEWIRTH-Samuel A. Age 90. On August 18 at Calvary Hospital. Born in Poland and raised in Koln, Germany. He came to the United States in 1936 where he established an international reputation as a scrap metals expert and publisher of a highly respected newsletter on the subject. He is survive
 PALM-Michael. New York City Opera deeply mourns the passing of Michael Palm. As Co-Chairman of our 1998 Opening Night Gala celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights, Michael shared with us his compassion, generosity and love of music. We extend our deepest sympathi
 PENKOWER-Rabbi Murry. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of the beloved husband of our esteemed national JNS representative and national board member, Lillian S. Penkower. A revered rabbinical and Jewish communal leader, Rabbi Penkower was dedicated to the advancement of Torah and relig
 PHILLIPS-Emil. Temple Beth Torah, Westbury, NY mourns the loss of our beloved member. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Marian and children, Scott, Jonathan, and Leslie and the entire family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Michael Kat
 STRATTON-Mark J. On August 17, 1998. Age 39. Beloved husband of Nancy. Devoted son of Joyce. Loving brother of Mara Sarlin. Dear son-in-law of Bernice Berk. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. Memorial Service Wednesday, 1:30 P.M. at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave
 SUALL-Irwin J. At age 73. Father of Mark and brother-in-law to Joan. Recently, former Director of the Fact-Finding Department at the Anti-Defamation League for 27 years. Earlier in life, he served in the Merchant Marine, and received a Fulbright Scholarship at Oxford University. Returning t
 WASSERSTROM-Alfred H. Age 88. On August 17, 1998, of Santa Cruz, CA (formerly of Hartsdale, NY). Survived by his beloved wife of almost 64 years, Gertrude, his two loving sons, Richard and Silas, and daughters-in-law, Phyllis and Jamie, nine grandchildren, and six great grandchildren. Memor
 Irwin J. Suall, who for three decades headed undercover investigations of groups regarded as inimical to Jews on behalf of the Anti-Defamation League, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center at 114th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. He was 73 and lived in the Tudor City area of M
 AMES-Thomas-Robert, Ed. D. The consumers, staff and members of the Board of Trustees of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities mourn the passing of Dr. Thomas-Robert Ames, a passionate advocate for the rights of people with developmental disabilities to lead lives of productivi
 BADEAU-Arthur C., 83, of Bradenton, Fl, died August 11. A retired Compliance Director of Kidder Peabody, he leaves his wife Marjorie, sons David, Paul, Douglas and Charles, and two grandchildren. Services were held Tuesday.       
 BALDINGER-Irving. August 18 in Studio City, CA. Loving husband of the late Sylvia; father of Jo Ann and Penny. We will miss his big heart and great sense of humor.       
 CHIA-Dewey Teh-huai. Age 86, on August 18th at Greenwich Hospital. Born in Shanghai, China. He came to the United States in 1956 where he established an oceanic shipping and international trading business. He is survived by his wife, Kitty Shun-hua, son Pei-yuan, daughters Pei-hsin and Pei-
 DARDEN-Robert K. of Sharon, Conn. on August 16, 1998. Son of the late Dr. St. Clair Darden and Ruth Darden of South Bend, Ind. Survived by his brother and sisterin-law. Thomas and Anna Mary Darden, of Glenview, Ill. and by four nephews. His family and many friends mourn the death of this wo
 EVANS-Robert B., Sr. A resident of Grosse Pointe Shores, MI, died at his residence on August 17, 1998. He was born March 19, 1906 in Richmond, VA. He was a graduate of Virginia Episcopal School, The University of Lauzon, and the University of Michigan. He was the founder of Evans Industries
 FINN-Richard B. The Japan Society notes with regret the passing of Richard Finn, a noted specialist in Japanese affairs, a retired foreign service officer, author, teacher and successful negotiator and administrator. His knowledge of Japan, its culture and its language was of great value to
 KAMINER-Peter H., August 17, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Marie Scott Kaminer, devoted father of Stevenson Scott Kaminer. Service Thursday, August 20th, 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Yale Law School Fund. A mem
 NADELSON-Dr. Harold, 90, of Deal, NJ and Tamarac, FL. died August 14. He was the youngest graduate of Northwestern Dental School at age 20 and practiced dentistry for many years in Asbury Park and Manhattan. He is survived by his wife, Norma, and her large, beloved family and by two sons fr
 NEWMAN-Norman, Esq. Yeshiva of South Shore and its affiliates are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved, dedicated president, who served our organization with devotion and distinction. Norman was a devoted husband, father, son and brother whose brilliant mind and compassionate heart
 PENKOWER-Rabbi Murry. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of the beloved husband of our esteemed national JNF representative and national board member, Lillian S. Penkower. A revered rabbinical and Jewish communal leader, Rabbi Penkower was dedicated to the advancement of Torah and relig
 REGEN-Stuart. On Tuesday August 18, 1998 of Los Angeles, California. Died after a long and valiant struggle with non hodgkins lymphoma. Beloved husband of Shaun Caley and cherished son of Barbara Gladstone. Dear brother to David Regen and Richard Regen, grandson of Evelyn Levitt, uncle of E
 SNEE-The Reverend Monsignor Joseph T. V. on August 19, 1998. Retired Pastor Emeritus of St. Bernard's RC Church and former administrator of St. Veronica's RC Church. Beloved brother of Betty C. and Mary E. Wilson and the late John T. Cherished uncle of Martha A. and Joseph J. Snee and John 
 SUALL-Irwin J. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of one of our longtime civil rights professionals, Irwin J. Suall, who was a brilliant and resourceful ADL activist for over thirty years. Irwin was key to the League's leadership in the fight against antiSemitism, racism and orga
 Peter H. Kaminer, a litigator who was senior managing partner of the law firm of Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts in New York from 1963 to 1983, died Monday at his home on Park Avenue, said Stephen A. Weiner, a partner at the firm. Mr. Kaminer, who was 83 and suffered from terminal cance
 Richard Boswell Finn, a former naval intelligence officer, diplomat and scholar of Japanese affairs, died on Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Finn was the author of ''Winners i
 Stuart Regen, a widely respected Los Angeles art dealer who also helped develop the Academy Award-winning movie ''Leaving Las Vegas,'' died on Tuesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 39 and lived in West Hollywood. He had been battling non-Hodgkin's lymphoma for nearly a decade
 Wallace Fowlie, a professor emeritus of French literature at Duke University who once compared the rock singer Jim Morrison to the poet Arthur Rimbaud, died on Sunday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 89 and lived in Chapel Hill. Mr. Fowlie gained prominence a
 James Prescott Carter, an international banker and economic consultant who also bred Aberdeen Angus cattle, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Keene, Va. He was 99 years old. Mr. Carter worked for more than three decades as an executive of the predecessor of Citibank in Spain, Belgium a
 AMES-Thomas-Robert Dr. Dear friend, esteemed colleague, founding member. His enthusiasm for learning, teaching and communicating was a model for all of us working in the field of disabilities. We shall miss him. Dr. Harold Michal-Smith, Pres. Board Members United World Partnership on Develo
 BROZA-Stanley C., Jr. Passed away August 19. Beloved husband of Margot. Father of Jennifer Hanham, Donald and Bruce Goodwin. Grandfather of Amanda, Chloe, Sophie and Oliver. Brother of Elliot Lawrence. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday, August 23 at 3 P.M. C
 KAMINER-Peter H. The partners and employees of Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts mourn the loss of Peter H. Kaminer, a partner of the firm for 40 years and our managing partner for 20 years. We will miss his extraordinary legal skills, his total devotion to the firm, the marvelous compani
 KRUTOY-Louis. 57. Of Scottsdale, Arizona, died August 20. The President of Harbor View Financial Services, Inc., Hoboken, NJ. He leaves his wife Andra, sons Howard and Ryan, daughter Jessica, daughter-in-law Sharon, and brother Herb. He will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved him. 
 LOBEL-John. On August 19, 1998. In Pompano Beach Fl. after a long illness. Beloved husband of Lili. Loving father of John and Peter. Fond father-in-law of Jannie and Diane. Dear grandpa of Joseph and Samuel. He will be mourned.       
 McALPIN-Frank. In accordance with the Divine Will of our Heavenly Father, Frank McAlpin departed this life on August 15, 1998 at 7:15 am, at Wayne Nursing Home, Bronx, New York. Frank McAlpin, the son of the late Evalena and John McAlpin was born on May 3, 1900, in Augusta, Georgia. He rece
 MILLER-Nachume. Artist, teacher, husband, father and friend on August 20, 1998 at age 49. Born in Frankfurt, Germany, immigrated to Israel in 1950. He came to New York in 1966 to study at the School of Visual Arts where he became a much loved member of the faculty, teaching painting and dra
 O'BRIEN-David W. of St. Davids, Pennsylvania, August 14, 1998 in Barre, Vermont after a long illness. Survived by his wife Barbara, daughters Christina and Sarah and 6 grandchildren. Memorial service at the Willows, Darby-Paoli Road, Radnor, PA. on Friday, August 28 at 5PM. Memorial contrib
 REGEN-Stuart. Dear Shaun, Barbara, David and Richard, our hearts are with you at this time of deepest sorrow. Stuart's courage, determination and enthusiasm for life and accomplishment will continue to live as a guiding object lesson to all of us. May you take comfort in inspiring memories 
 ROBBINS-Jack E. Eighty-five, of Palm Beach Gardens Florida. Formerly of Larchmont NY. Devoted husband of the late Marilyn. Loving father of Patricia, Joan Conners and B.J. (Robert Fields). Adored grandfather of Jarett and Brett Conners, Jenna and Jake Fields. Retired President of Poirette I
 Phil Leeds, a durable funnyman who began his pursuit of laughs as a stand-up comic in the 1930's and went on to work in theater, films and television, died on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 82. Mr. Leeds's rumpled face -- ''I'm not pretty, but I'm warm 
 Thomas-Robert Ames, a New York educator and nationally known authority on the rehabilitation of the mentally retarded and disabled, died on Monday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was prostate cancer, said the YAI/National
 Edward George Lowry Jr., a former chairman and president of the General Reinsurance Corporation, died on Aug. 11 at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 95. Mr. Lowry was named president of General Reinsurance and its fire insurance affiliate, North Star Reinsurance, 
 James A. Perkins, a former president of Cornell University and an authority on higher education for philanthropic and national advisory groups, died on Thursday at a rest home in Burlington, Vt. He was 86 and had lived in Princeton, N.J. Dr. Perkins became Cornell's president in 196
 Robert Willis Warren, a senior Federal judge in Wisconsin who caused a national uproar in 1979 when he reluctantly became the first Federal judge ever to sign a prior restraint order against a magazine, died on Thursday at Columbia Hospital in Milwaukee. He was 72 and lived in Mequon, a Mil
 Kenneth S. Norris, a naturalist and researcher who uncovered much of what is known about dolphins and other marine mammals, died on Aug. 16 at the University of California at Santa Cruz Medical Center. He was 74 and lived in Santa Cruz. Dr. Norris, an emeritus professor of natural h
 BEN-DOV-Eliezer (Abba). Deborah Vahey-Schwartz and Susan Buchbinder along with the entire Buchbinder & Warren Real Estate family wish to extend the deepest condolences to the Ben-Dov family on the passing of our ''dear Abba''. He will be missed by all of us. Our prayers to Mrs. Ben-Dov.    
 BYERS-David. 77. A nationallyknown architectural and decorative arts consultant and a muchadmired contributor to the social and cultural life of Atlanta-and wherever he landed in his travelsdied of heart failure August 19 at Atlanta's Piedmont Hospital. A gentleman of wry, good humor, when 
 CHANDLER-David L. On August 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Ann. Adored father of Allyn and David Lee. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81 St., Tuesday, August 25, at 1:30 PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Jupiter Medical Center, 1210 South O
 KRASNOW-Hershel. Investment banker and board director of several public and private companies, died Wednesday, August 19, after a courageous fight against cancer. He was 77. He was Sr. Vice President of First Security Investments, Inc. Some of his many positions included: Board Member of Ho
 KRUTOY-Louis. 57. Of Scottsdale, Arizona, died August 20. The President of Harbor View Financial Services, Inc., Hoboken, NJ. He leaves his wife Andra, sons Howard and Ryan, daughter Jessica, daughter-in-law Sharon, and brother Herb. He will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved him. 
 LANE-Louis F., on August 20th, 1998. Beloved husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Scott and Brian Lane and Andrea Apter and David Robbins. Dearest brother of Diana Gorelkin, Joan Glasser and Harriet Lane. Cherished Poppy to Lauren, Hailey, Brandon, Adam and Brigid. He lived life to the ful
 LUNN-Harry. His knowledge, eye and devotion greatly expanded the world of photography. Cornell Capa, Founder Willis Hartshorn, Director Int'l. Center of Photography LUNN-Harry. His voice will resound and his presence will be felt whenever photography connoisseurs gather. L. Parker S
 MILLER-Nachume. Artist, teacher, husband, father and friend on August 20, 1998 at age 49. Born in Frankfurt, Germany, immigrated to Israel in 1950. He came to New York in 1966 to study at the School of Visual Arts where he became a much loved member of the faculty, teaching painting and dra
 PERDUE-William R. (age 85). On Wednesday, August 19, 1998, of Silver Spring, Maryland. Loving husband of the late Loraine Seaver Perdue. Devoted father of Peter (Linda Warner) Perdue of Boston, MA; David (Wendy) Perdue of Silver Spring, MD; Elizabeth (Sanford Greenberg) Perdue of Chicago, I
 POLIKOFF-Harry. On August 21, 1998, in NYC, in his 92nd year. A graduate of the Wharton School and University of Pennsylvania Law School (Class of 1931), he maintained an active law practice for more than 65 years in Pennsylvania and New York. He is survived by his much loved wife Wanda, hi
 SCHNEIDER-Martin. On August 17, 1998. Of Boca Raton, Fl. Beloved husband of the late Shirley Hacker and the late Gloria Rosenberg. Devoted father of Jane Teplitzky, Richard Schneider, Nancy Rohn, Betty Haber, and Carole Rosenberg. Cherished grandfather of Joshua, Samantha, Scott, and Matthe
 SECKINGER-J. Rolf. Age 42, of Manhattan, NY, and West Palm Beach, FL, died suddenly on August 16, 1998. He was a beloved brother, life partner and friend. Mr. Seckinger attended Carnegie Mellon University, where he majored in architecture and architectural history. He achieved great success
 SONNENFELD - Rabbi Isaac, Great grandson of Yosef Chaim Sonnenfeld on August 20, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Sonnenfeld. Dear father of Bernard Sonnenfeld, Joseph Sonnenfeld and Shirley Acker. Cherished grandfather of Karen Mark, David, Stephanie, Marc, David, Michael and Willi
 STONE-Bayard C. 77, of Elkins Park, PA and Rockport, ME on August 20, 1998 in Philadelphia, PA. Beloved husband of Enid Weisz Stone and father of Corey, Eric, and Jeffrey. He is also survived by seven grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, Sept. 6 at 2 PM at Congregation 
 STRUMPF-Jerome C. 85, on August 22. Loving husband of Gloria Hirtz and the late Naomi Rubin. Adored father of Jean Sommerfield and grandfather of Sarah Sommerfield. Cherished brother of Muriel Coleman. Beloved by Deborah and Daniel Waterman, Robin and Roger Meltzer, Ben, Andrew and Charlie 
 TOPALIAN-Malcolm F. On August 18. An internationally respected expert on Oriental rugs who was founder of Topalian Trading Company of Manhattan, he was born in Istanbul in 1912, and emigrated to America in 1922 following the Turkish genocide of the Armenians. He studied at Harvard and Colum
 COOPERBERG-Irving 8/20/97 I loved my Irving. He went away from me. There's nothing more to say. The poem ends. Soft as it beganI loved my Irving. Lou       
 Woody Stephens, one of seven children of a Kentucky sharecropper who became a legendary trainer of horses and won the Kentucky Derby twice and the Belmont Stakes a record five times in a row, died yesterday at the Heartland Health Care Center in Miami Lakes, Fla. He would have turned 85 on 
 Gregg Burge, a dancer and choreographer on Broadway and in films, died on July 4 at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 40 and had homes in Atlanta and New York. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, his mother, Thelma, said. A friend of Mr. Burge's reported his death to 
 Harry H. Lunn Jr., the international art dealer who played a major role in creating a fine-art photography market that has seen canonical vintage prints sell for hundreds of thousands of dollars, died on Friday in Paris, where he had a home. A week earlier, while preparing to board 
 CAMPBELL-Brigadier General John C., Jr., USAF Retired. Of Quogue, NY, at age 77, on August 22, 1998. He leaves his beloved wife of 41 years, Jane Shields Campbell. He will be greatly missed by his sister Elizabeth, his children John, Frances and Edward, their spouses Elizabeth Detels Campbe
 CHANDLER-David L. On August 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Ann. Adored father of Allyn and David Lee. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81 St., Tuesday, August 25, at 1:30 PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Jupiter Medical Center, 1210 South O
 GOLDMUNTZ-Armand. Passed away on August 21. Beloved husband of Ursula Goldmuntz. Cherished father of Rene Goldmuntz and Carol Levin. Grandfather of Lisa Peltz and Rachel Wolff and great grandfather of Benjamin Peltz. Services were held in Switzerland. He will always remain in their hearts. 
 POLIKOFF-Harry. On August 21, 1998, in NYC, in his 92nd year. A graduate of the Wharton School and University of Pennsylvania Law School (Class of 1931), he maintained an active law practice for more than 65 years in Pennsylvania and New York. He is survived by his much loved wife Wanda, hi
 SIMON-Craig. Sports Marketing Executive. Services for Craig A. Simon, 43, of Deerfield, Illinois, will be held at 1 PM, Tuesday, August 25, at Gutterman's Funeral Chapel at 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, NY. Mr. Simon, who died Saturday after a long illness was the Vice President of Sport
 STRUMPF-Jerome C. 85, on August 22. Loving husband of Gloria Hirtz and the late Naomi Rubin. Adored father of Jean Sommerfield and grandfather of Sarah Sommerfield. Cherished brother of Muriel Coleman. Beloved by Deborah and Daniel Waterman, Robin and Roger Meltzer, Ben, Andrew and Charlie 
 Thomas H. Broadus Jr., a managing director of T. Rowe Price Associates, died Aug. 17 while vacationing in Europe. He was 60 years old and lived in Baltimore. Mr. Broadus joined T. Rowe Price, a leading mutual fund company, in 1966 and rose to the position of managing director.      
 Bernard F. Van Lenten Jr., a New York editor and columnist on the men's clothing industry who helped organize the first major private fund-raiser for AIDS research, died Aug. 15 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Greenwich Village. He had a long illness, 
 Dr. Darby Wood Betts, an Episcopal priest who was an expert on church architecture and a co-founder of the Episcopal Homes Foundation in the Diocese of California, died on Aug. 14 at Spring Lake Village, an Episcopal Homes residence in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 86 and also kept a home in Ca
 Hoyt Clarke Hottel, a retired chemical and combustion engineer and a leader in the development of alternative fuels at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Aug. 18 at his home in Winchester, Mass. He was 95. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said officials at M.I.T., wh
 Kazimierz Dziewanowski, the first Ambassador of what he proudly called the ''new, democratic and free Poland'' to the United States from 1990 to 1993, died on Wednesday in a hospital at Pisz, Poland. He was in his late 60's and lived in Warsaw. His death came from a sudden illness, 
 BERKMAN-Lars. The entire staff of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette mourn the passing of Mr. Lars Berkman, Senior Vice President and Director of high yield investments at DLJ Investment Management Corp. Mr. Berkman was one of the leading portfolio managers in the country, and in a short period o
 CAMPBELL-John C., Jr., Brigadier General. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers note with great sadness the death of John C. Campbell, Jr., devoted husband to Hospice board member and patron, Jane S. Campbell. John was a loyal supporter of Hospice. We are truly grate
 COREY-Alan Lyle, Jr. Died suddenly August 24. He is survived by his loving wife Patricia Grace. His children Patricia Corey Montgomerie, Alan L. Corey III and Russell G. Corey, eight granchildren and one great granddaughter. He was a member of the Meadowbrook Club, Piping Rock Club and the 
 GOTTESMAN-Hyam. Died on August 23rd following a 2-1/2 year courageous battle with cancer and a week after his 45th birthday. Beloved husband of Susan, devoted father of David, Lena & Mathew. He had the remarkable ability to see humor in every life situation, even when facing death. He never
 KELLEY-Augustus Wilkins III, of Greenwich CT. who was a former vice president of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co, died suddenly at home on August 23 at the age of 80. Mr. Kelley graduated from Choate Academy and St. John's Law School and attended Columbia University. Following his military service 
 KELLY-Daniel M. On August 23, 1998. Formerly a senior partner at Solomon Bros. and financial advisor for the Swiss Reinsurance Company. Beloved husband of the late Helen, he is survived by his children Daniel, Andrew, William and Ellen, his sister Genevieve Stellenwerf, grandchildren Nichol
 LIND-Leslie Woodrow. The Members, Jazz Community and Staff of Saint Peter's Lutheran Church, NYC, mourn the loss of Leslie Lind, father of Dale R. Lind, our Pastor to the Jazz Community, who died Saturday, August 22, in Frederick, MD, following a long illness. We express heartfeld condolenc
 MOSS-Samuel H. (''Sonny'') Of London, England, passed away peacefully August 23, 1998, at age 82. Beloved husband of Anne and the late Eileen (nee Jacobs). Devoted father of Stephen. Cherished brother of Queenie and Evelyn, and the late Ruth and Norman. Loving brother-in-law of Celia, Shirl
 POLIKOFF-Harry. The Officers, Board of Directors, Trustees and Staff of The Jewish Guild for the Blind, note with sorrow the passing of Harry Polikoff, husband of Guild Trustee, Wanda. He was a committed supporter of The Guild and its mission to aid blind and visually impaired persons. We e
 SAVIO-S. Charles. On August 22, 1998. Mr. Savio, a graduate of Fordham University School of Pharmacy, was the executive director of the New York State Pharmaceutical Association and was president of the Italian Pharmaceutical Society. He had been the proprietor of the St. George Pharmacy in
 SIMON-Craig. Consummate boxing fan and friend. You will be missed at ringside, but your spirit will always be alive with those of us you touched. Deepest condolences to Craig's family. Valerie Salembier SIMON-Craig. Professional Sports Publications acknowledges with deep sadness, th
 WILEY-Paul R. A retired executive of West Virginia Pulp & Paper Company (Westvaco), died on Thursday, 20 August in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida after a long bout with cancer. Dr. Wiley was born in Boston, Massachusetts on 28 May 1915, the second son of Nona and Harry Wiley. He received a B.S.
 Solon G. Vlasto, the publisher of what was once the largest daily Greek-language newspaper in the United States, died yesterday in a convalescent home in Athens. He was 94. Mr. Vlasto was born in Athens in 1903 and came to the United States in 1918. Shortly thereafter, he began work
 Charles C. Diggs Jr., a founder of the Congressional Black Caucus whose 26-year career in the House ended in disgrace when he was convicted and imprisoned for taking kickbacks from his staff members, died on Monday at the Greater Southeast Community Hospital here. He was 75 and lived in the
 E. G. Marshall, a character actor who projected the image of a knowledgeable professional or an elder statesman in plays, films and television, died on Monday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 84. Mr. Marshall, an articulate, witty man with intense eyes and sharp features, earned 
 Floyd K. Haskell, whose tall frame and rugged good looks made him seem chiseled for his role as a United States Senator but who never felt quite comfortable in the part, died today at a hospital here in his hometown. He was 82. The ABC News correspondent Cokie Roberts, a friend of t
 Lewis F. Powell Jr., the Supreme Court Justice who brought a voice of moderation and civility to an increasingly polarized Court during his 15-year tenure, died today at the age of 90. An announcement from the Court reported that Justice Powell, who retired 11 years ago and had been in fail
 FOX-Jonathan. Age 76, formerly of Ardsley, N.Y., born in Alva, Scotland, died August 22, 1998 in Tucson, AZ. Brother of Isa Petersen of York, England. Father of Vicki, Christopher and Douglas. Loving grandfather of Dylan and Natalie. Also survived by his former wife, Patricia. Service on We
 KEENAN-Frederick M., Jr., 74. A retired sports photographer for the Patriot Ledger, Quincy, MA, died August 24, 1998 at his home in South Yarmouth, MA. after a long illness. He was well known for his award-winning photo of Bobby Orr scoring the 1970 Stanley Cup hockey winning goal. He is su
 KELLY-Daniel M. On August 23, 1998. Formerly a senior partner at Solomon Bros. and financial advisor for the Swiss Reinsurance Company. Beloved husband of the late Helen, he is survived by his children Daniel, Andrew, William and Ellen, his sister Genevieve Stellenwerf, grandchildren Nichol
 LUNN-Harry H. Jr. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague, friend and member of the Board of Directors. A pioneer photography dealer, he was a leader in the recognition of photography as an important visual art. A fine human being, he had t
 MOHR-Robert E. On August 25, 1998. Vice President of Timex Watches, he is survived by his two children Candace and Robert. Friends may call Thursday from 4:00 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St., with service at 7:30 PM. Interment will take place in Indiana.       
 RAPHAEL-Richard. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Richard Raphael, whose business achievements in the construction industry were only equaled by his commitment to the Jewish community. A selfmade man & a longtime supporter of communal cause
 ROSENTHAL-Albert. Age 64. On August 25, 1998, of Scarsdale, NY. Loving husband of Deena, father of Ian, Sara and Alisa, and fatherin-law of Tallulah. Devoted brother, uncle, nephew, brother-in-law and friend. Service at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, New York, at
 SCHIFF-Howard. Most wonderful loving husband of Norma; devoted father of Mindy, Barry, and Jacqueline and Stewart. Proud Grandpa of Justin; cherished brother to Sheldon and Phyllis and brother to Elinor and Norman. Adored sonin-law of Frank Rubin. Loved by all his sister-and brother-in-laws
 SIDERMAN-Monte. On August 24, 1998. Beloved spouse of the late Beatrice Kreindler Siderman and thereafter of Florence Shientag Gluck. Distinguished pharmacist. Also associated 40 years with the 21 Club. Dear uncle of Howard and Irene and Gary and Arlene Lustig. His many friends and admirers
 WALDMAN-Bernard M., of 22 Governor's Row, West Hartford, CT died August 24, 1998 in Hartford, CT. Born in New York City, Sept. 12, 1920 and lived in West Hartford since 1956. Former National Officer of United Jewish Appeal. A distinguished businessman, Philantropist and community leader. He
 WILDERS-Monsignor James Gabriel. August 25. Uncle of Gerald Wilders. Great uncle of Regan, Gabrielle, William and Kingsley. Friends may call on Wednesday, August 26th, 2-5 and 7-9 P.M.; Thursday, August 27, 2-5 PM at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. Mass of the Holy Eucharist Th
 Francesco Crucitti, who performed emergency surgery on Pope John Paul II after an assassination attempt in 1981 and went on to become his personal surgeon, died in Rome today. He was 67. Dr. Crucitti, a professor of surgery at the medical school of the Catholic University of Italy, 
 Harold W. Ezell, who as a Federal immigration official supported amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants only to become a decade later the co-author of a state initiative denying them public benefits, died on Tuesday at Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 
 BAKER-Dr. Robert E. of New Hyde Park in his 76th year. Beloved husband of Patricia. Beloved father of Robert J., William K., Bruce R. and Jonathan. Loving grandfather of Christopher. Friends may visit Thursday and Friday 2-4:30 and 7-9:30PM at the New Hyde Park Funeral Home 506 Lakeville Rd
 BIASIN-Gian-Paolo. Professor of Italian Studies at the University of California, Berkeley since 1981 died Monday, August 24, 1998 after two years of a courageous struggle with cancer. He is survived by his devoted wife and son, Rita and Giovanni of Berkeley, California, and in Italy by his 
 BRILL-Seymour, in his 90th year. In Sarasota, FL., on August 25. Devoted father of Edward, Michael and Leslie, and Geert Van Brandt; loving brother of Ruth Bernstein and Richard Brill; and adoring grandfather of Benjamin, Martin and Joseph, Joachim, Sarah and Jacob. Services at the home of 
 CHEY-Jong-Hyon, Chairman of SK Group of Korea, died August 26, 1998 at his home in Seoul, Korea. Chairman Chey was born in Suwon, Korea in 1930, and under his leadership, the SK Group grew to become South Korea's fifth largest conglomerate with annual revenues in excess of $30 billion. Chai
 CHIA-Dewey Teh-huai, 86. New York University Medical Center extends its sincerest condolences to our esteemed colleague and trustee, Pei-yuan Chia, on the passing of his father. Born in Shanghai, China, in 1912, Dewey Teh-huai Chia came to the United States in 1956, where he established an 
 FEFFER-Solomon. On August 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Bessie. Loving father of Amnon Paul and Jonathan. Dear brother of Celia Goldman. Adoring grandfather of Ethan Daniel, Joshua Raphael, Rachel Illana and Jeremy. Great grandfather of Jacob Tobias, Raphael Mordechai and Olivia Rose. Servic
 LUNN-Harry, Jr. The membership of the Association of International Photography Art Dealers, Inc mourns the loss of a founder and respected colleague. As a member of the Board, Harry's experience and guidance were significant to the growth of AIPAD. We will miss his wisdom, humor, and genero
 POWELL-Lewis F. Jr, United States Supreme Court Justice (ret), died at his home in Richmond on Tuesday, August 25, 1998. Justice Powell was born in Suffolk, Virginia on September 19, 1907. He was the son of the late Mary Lewis Gwathmey and Louis Franklin Powell. His wife of 60 years, Joseph
 RAISLER-Harold K. Beloved husband of Aline Stevens and the late Mary. Loving father of Jeanne Raisler and son-in-law Jonathan. Devoted grandfather of Joshua and Josina. Cherished brother of Robert and Dolly, stepchildren Peggy and Marty Winkelman and Randall and Alice Stevens, grandchildren
 RAPHAEL-Richard. NYU School of Medicine extends heartfelt condolences to Richard's wife Beverly and his family, and to his devoted cousin, Jerry Levin and his wife Carol Levin, a dedicated friend, supporter and advocate of women's health services. Charles J. Lockwood, M.D. The Stanley H. Ka
 RUTTER-John Carlton, 75. Of Newark, DE, died August 25, 1998 in Christiana Hospital. He was a graduate of Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute as an Engineer. He was a Management Consultant for NVF at the Yorklyn, DE site, retiring in 1989. He was a Flyer in the Navy during W.W. II. A member of t
 SCHIFF-Howard. Most wonderful loving husband of Norma; devoted father of Mindy, Barry, and Jacqueline and Stewart. Proud Grandpa of Justin; cherished brother to Sheldon and Phyllis and brother to Elinor and Norman. Adored sonin-law of Frank Rubin. Loved by all his sister-and brother-in-laws
 SHAPIRO-Philip C. Of Jackson Heights, NY. In his 81st year on August 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Mildred Lang Shapiro; cherished father of Marilyn Shapiro Bodner, Marc and Kenny Shapiro, and Dorleen Shapiro; adored grandfather of Jason and David Shapiro. Dearest uncle and greatuncle. His v
 WILDERS-Reverend Monsignor James Gabriel. The people, clergy and staff of St. Thomas More parish on East 89th St. express sorrow at the death of our former Pastor, who entered into Eternal Life on August 25, 1998. He was a faithful friend and father to all. May he rest in the peace of Chris
 Eddie Shipstad, a onetime Minnesota rink rat who learned early that a little fancy skating would attract a crowd on the ponds of St. Paul, then made a fortune proving that a lot of fancy skating would draw throngs across the country, died on Aug. 20 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 91 and
 Dr. Frederick Reines, whose fine baritone might have landed him in opera instead of the career in neutrino physics that culminated in the 1995 Nobel Prize, died on Wednesday night at the University of California-Irvine Medical Center in Orange, Calif. Dr. Reines was 80 and lived on the univ
 Marshall Barer, the lyricist and the book writer (with Jay Thompson and Dean Fuller) for ''Once Upon a Mattress'' (the 1959 show that introduced Carol Burnett to Broadway), and the wit who wrote the words for the Mighty Mouse theme song, died on Tuesday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 
 COHEN-Ezra. On Aug. 26, 1998. Born Brooklyn, NY May 4, 1919. Loving husband of Ray. Devoted father of Barbara, Marilyn, Jacqueline and Susan. Doting grandfather of 14 grandchildren. Also survived by 7 brothers and sisters. Formerly vice president of the Sunweave Linen Corp. Active supporter
 GERSHMAN-Richard K. On August 26 at age 69, Richard Gershman died in the New Milford, CT. Hospital of respiratory disease. Son of the late Isaac Gershman (former general manager of the City News Bureau of Chicago) and the late Agnhild Gershman. Richard was born in Winnetka, Illinois. Richar
 GOLDMAN-Robert I. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation are deeply saddened at the death of Robert I. Goldman, a stalwart supporter, dedicated friend, and devoted member of our Banking and Finance Committee. His commitment to our mission was reflected in his exemplar
 HUME-Donald. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Donald Hume. His forty-one years of service to the college will be long remembered and deeply appreciated. Vernon E. Lattin, President, Brooklyn College       
 NAGEL-Richard I. Consultant to the restaurant and wine industry as well as an academic, Richard Nagel was born in New Jersey and graduated from Rutgers University Magna Cum Laude & Phi Beta Kappa. He became a Woodrow Wilson Fellow at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He joined the facu
 RAISLER-Harold K. Beloved husband of Aline Stevens and the late Mary. Loving father of Jeanne Raisler and son-in-law Jonathan. Devoted grandfather of Joshua and Josina. Cherished brother of Robert and Dolly, stepchildren Peggy and Marty Winkelman and Randall and Alice Stevens, grandchildren
 SHIPLEY-Carl Layton. Age 82, passed away at his home in Naples, Florida after a brief illness on August 25, 1998. He formerly had homes in Washington, D.C. and Charlottesville, Virginia. He is survived by his wife Barbara Baumann Shipley, and his two sons, Zachary Kane Shipley (Nicole) and 
 WILDERS-Rev. Msgr. James G. The Board of Directors, Carmelite Sisters, Staff, Residents, Family circle Members and Volunteers express our deep loss upon the death of Monsignor Wilders, our longtime friend and advisor, on August 25, 1998. As a Member of our Board of Directors he was held in 
 ZBEDA-Regina. Sutton Place Synagogue extends condolences to our devoted member, George Zbeda and his family on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother. Our sympathies to the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 GEORGE-Allan. 7/31/14 to 8/28/79. A unique man, remembered by everyone who knew him. You live on in my heart and soul. Life has never been the same. Love always, Catherine.       
 Fritz Haber, an aeronautical engineer who developed a way to simulate the gravity-free environment of space in the training of Apollo astronauts by flying a plane in a roller-coaster pattern, died on Aug. 21 at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. Dr. Haber, one of the German scientis
 Harold Siegel, a former secretary and counsel to the New York City Board of Education, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. Mr. Siegel joined the professional staff of the school board in 1951 as a c
 John R. Williams, who was Governor of Arizona from 1967 to 1975 and helped the Republican Party gain a solid foothold in the state, died on Monday at his home in Phoenix. He was 88. Mr. Williams was the first Arizona governor to serve a four-year term,  as a result of a constitution
 DUNDON-Reverend Raymond. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of St. Mary Magdalen Church, Springfield Gardens, on August 28, 1998. Reposing at Saint Vincent Ferrer Rectory, 1603 Brooklyn Avenue, Brooklyn, Sunday, August 30, from 2 to 7 P.M. Mass of Transferral
 GLOGOVER-Ernest Howard. On August 26, 1998 at the age of 71. Beloved father of Stella (Peter Bianchini) and Roberta Glogover. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan and Thomas Bianchini. Dear brother of Saul (Dorothy) Glogover. Devoted friend of many. He will be sorely missed. Funeral services a
 GOLDMAN-Robert I. On August 27, 1998. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Congress Financial Corporation. Beloved husband of Melva B. Goldman. Father of William Douglas Lese, Peter Lawrence Lese and Olexa Farrell. Grandfather of Jason, Stephen and William. Brother of Suzanne Brown. Priv
 KLEIN-Nathan. The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring mourns the passing of our longtime activist, Nathan (Nat) Klein. A member of our Organization for more than 60 years, his dedication and tireless work in many leadership positions including several terms on our National Executive Board were an
 MULHALL-William F., 81. Of Garden City, NY, passed away August 27, 1998. He is survived by his wife of 56 years Elise, daughter Ellen Morrell, sons John and Jeffrey, nine grandchildren, brothers Monsignor Francis X. Mulhall, James and sister Eileen Killea. Reposing at Fairchild Sons Funeral
 ROSENBERG-William H. Died August 28. Age 88. Decorated World War II veteran, he was also a Mason of the highest order. Survived by nephews Benjamin and Martin Lipnack and spouses and great nieces and nephews. Services on Sunday, at 9:45 A.M., at ''Garlick's,'' Coney Island Avenue near Avenu
 ROTH-Joseph. In memory of our good friend and founding benefactor to the Emanuel Foundation. Just this past year we had the chance to honor for the second time, Mr. Roth whose work as a philanthropist and supporter of Holocaust causes was unparalleled. He will be sorely missed, but his lega
 WOLF-Robert E., M.D. August 27. Beloved husband of Syma. Loving father of Shari. Dear son of Dora and the late Joseph. Cherished brother of Howard (Arline) and Seena (Fred). Devoted uncle. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the American Heart Association, American Cancer Socie
 WOLFE-Harry G. Loving husband and dear friend to Ann, died suddenly on August 25, 1998. He served in the U.S. Navy in World War II and was cited for heroism during the invasion of Sicily. He received his B.S. and M.A. degrees from Columbia University and taught at W.C. Bryant and L.I.C. hig
 GEORGE-Allan. 7/31/14 to 8/28/79. A unique man, remembered by everyone who knew him. You live on in my heart and soul. Life has never been the same. Love always, Catherine       
 C. Dickerman Williams, a corporate lawyer who also represented freedom-of-speech clients of diverse perspectives, including The Daily Worker in the 1920's and The National Review in the 1960's, died on Aug. 12 at his Whitney Center retirement home in Hamden, Conn. He was 97. Mr. Wil
 Charles W. Pilling, music director of the Central City Chorus and organist of the Central Presbyterian Church, died on Aug. 12 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 40 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lymphoma, said his companion, Leonard DeCicco. Mr. Pil
 Oleg Prokofiev, whose work as a painter and sculptor was often overshadowed by his championship of the music of his composer father, Sergei, died on Aug. 20 while vacationing on the island of Guernsey in the English Channel. He was 69 and lived in London. The cause of death was a he
 GOLDMAN-Robert I. On August 27, 1998. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Congress Financial Corporation. Beloved husband of Melva B. Goldman. Father of William Douglas Lese, Peter Lawrence Lese and Olexa Farrell. Grandfather of Jason, Stephen and William. Brother of Suzanne Brown. Priv
 IMMERMAN-J. Sloame. On August 28, 1998. Survived by his wife Suzanne and predeceased by his beloved Ruth. Loving father of Susan Solomon and Ellen Berger and their husbands Elliott Solomon and Ted Berger. Adored grandfather of Scott, Beth, Holly and Nancy and their spouses, and great-grandf
 KESSLER-Erich G. Died of a heart attack Thursday, August 13, 1998, in Geneva, Switzerland, while vacationing with his daughter and granddaughter. He was a resident of Manhattan. Mr. Kessler was born in Vienna, Austria, on February 10, 1915, and came to the United States in 1938. Before his 
 McGEE-Vincent F. 78, died peacefully on August 27, 1998 at home in New York City. Loving husband for 52 years of the late Helen; devoted father of Vincent, Gerald and Eleanor, Patricia and Richard Yates, and Kevin; proud grandfather of Brian and Ann, Maura and Emily; brother of Joseph and t
 MORRELL-Bruce. All of us at the Holocaust Memorial and Educational Center of Nassau County note with profound sorrow the sudden passing of Bruce Morrell. As a member of our Board of Directors and a supportive friend in so many ways, he will be missed and remembered by those who had the priv
 MULHALL-William F., 81. Of Garden City, NY, passed away August 27, 1998. He is survived by his wife of 56 years Elise, daughter Ellen Morrell, sons John and Jeffrey, nine grandchildren, brothers Monsignor Francis X. Mulhall, James and sister Eileen Killea. Reposing at Fairchild Sons Funeral
 NATHAN-Alan Clark. On August 28, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Marjorie and devoted father of the late Richard. Cherished grandfather of Mitchell and Bridget. Dear brother of Robert and loving partner of Bette Paris. He will forever remain in our hearts. Funeral services at Gramercy Par
 NORMAN-Melvin. In loving memory. Devoted husband of Shirley. Father of Lesley & Mel and Jody & Vincent. Grandfather of Heather, Matthew, Evan and Celine. His happiness was an inspiration to all and he will be sincerely missed. Services to be held Monday 12:00 PM, Gutterman Funeral Home, Woo
 ROSSABI-Mayer. In honor of Mayer Rossabi and with loving memory by his family and friends services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel on Monday at 12:30 PM.       
 STEPHENS-Roy Albert, M.D. August 28. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of nine and grandfather of seven. He will be sorely missed but his love and vision will live on forever. Donations in lieu of flowers may be made to the Roy A. Stephens Scholarship Fund at the Wake Forest Univers
 STUART - Douglas Kleinpeter. Died Friday, August 28, 1998, in NYC, at the age of 48. A Louisiana native and longtime resident of New Orleans, ''Klein'' lived in NYC since 1988. He studied in Italy and was a graduate of Loyola University of New Orleans and Parsons School of Design in NYC. Kl
 WOLF-Robert E., M.D. The members of the Division of Cardiology of the Long Island College Hospital mourn the passing of our friend & colleague. He was an excellent cardiologist who cared deeply for his patients and was held in the highest regard by students, house officers and his peers for
 ZAHARIAS-George (AKA Zach, Christ, C.J.). at St. Paul's Greek Orthodox Cathedral, Hempstead, LI on Sunday, August 30 at 10AM. Donations in his memory may be made to Make a Wish Foundation.       
 GEORGE-Allan. 7/31/14 to 8/28/79. A unique man, remembered by everyone who knew him. You live on in my heart and soul. Life has never been the same. Love always, Catherine.       
 Fabio Coen, a children's book editor, died on Aug. 19 at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Coen worked with many leading writers and illustrators of books for children and young adults, among them Roald Dahl, Roger Duvoisin and Robert Cormier. Until his retirement in 1979, he wa
 Jerre Mangione, a writer whose thinly veiled memoir of life in a Sicilian enclave in Rochester became a classic of American ethnic literature and gave a new name to his boyhood haunts, died on Aug. 16 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 89. His first book, ''Mount Allegro,'' was wr
 Luke William Finlay, a retired lawyer, legislative lobbyist for the oil industry and general who moved troops and supplies during World War II, died Tuesday at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 91. He had suffered from a long illness, his family said. Mr. Finlay, in his mili
 GOLDMAN-Robert I. We mourn the loss of our dear personal friend and business associate, Robert I. Goldman, Chairman and CEO of Congress Financial Corp., Inc. Bob and his late associate Robert Miller, O.B.M., have played a significant role in the growth of our company. Bob's untimely tragic 
 GORDON-Abraham N. Passed away Thursday, August 27. Distinguished faculty member and grade advisor at RJJ Yeshiva and Eastern District High Schools, New York City. A figure of unimpeachable integrity, both ethically and religiously. Committed at one and the same time to broader academic exce
 GORDON-Yaffa. We extend sincerest condolences to David Gordon, our devoted friend and Founder, on the loss of his beloved mother. May the warm and loving memories of this special individual bring solace to the entire family, and may they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusal
 HABERGRITZ-George. Artist and teacher. On August 29, at age 93. Beloved husband of the late Maya Pollack Habergritz. He is survived by a sister Sophie Lorber and five brothers William Haber, Louis Haber, Milton Haber, Bernard Haber and Morris Sussal. He will be deeply missed.       
 McGEE-Vincent F. 78, died peacefully on August 27, 1998 at home in New York City. Loving husband for 52 years of the late Helen; devoted father of Vincent, Gerald and Eleanor, Patricia and Richard Yates, and Kevin; proud grandfather of Brian and Ann, Maura and Emily; brother of Joseph and t
 MULHALL-William F., 81. Of Garden City, NY, passed away August 27, 1998. He is survived by his wife of 56 years Elise, daughter Ellen Morrell, sons John and Jeffrey, nine grandchildren, brothers Monsignor Francis X. Mulhall, James and sister Eileen Killea. Reposing at Fairchild Sons Funeral
 MURRAY-Verne L. Jr. 73. Of Hilton Head Island, SC, died Wednesday, August 26, in his home. He was born in Indianapolis, IN. Son of the late Verne and Katherine Wocher Murray, Sr. He attended Choate Academy and was a graduate of Amherst College, class of 1947. He was a Navy veteran of WWII. 
 ROSENBERG-William H. The A.A.S.R. of Freemasonry Valley of New York City sorrowfully announces the passing of our illustrious Brother on August 28. His love of humanity illuminated the Lodge and all with whom he came in contact. The myriad members he sponsored over the years are a memorial 
 ROSSABI-Mayer. In honor of Mayer Rossabi and with loving memory by his family and friends, services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel today at 12:30.       
 SYMS MERNS-Stephen. On August 29, 1998, at age 45. Beloved husband of Karen. Devoted father of Jillian, Daniel and Olivia. Loving son of Sy Syms and Ruth Merns. Adored brother of Marcy Syms Merns, Laura, Adrienne, Robert and Richard. Stephen was Vice President of Syms Corp and member and Se
 WAITMAN-Gerald. The doctors and staff of East Side Physicians extend our deepest sympathy to our colleague Dr. Albert Waitman and family on the untimely death of his beloved brother, Gerald. Dr. Richard Geltman Medical Director       
 Paul J. Anderson, who directed the Division of Neuropathology at Mount Sinai Medical Center and School of Medicine for 30 years, died on Aug. 11 at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 and also kept a residence in New Paltz, N.Y. The cause was a brain tumor diagnosed early last month, a
 Wouter F. Germans, a partner in Hague Art Deliveries, which developed 420 West Broadway, one of the primary gallery buildings during the heyday of the SoHo art scene, died on Aug. 24 at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was comp
