 Charles S. Whitehouse, a diplomat and former Central Intelligence Agency official who was ambassador to Laos and Thailand in the 1970's, died on Monday at his home near Marshall, Va. He was 79. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. When Mr. Whitehouse arrived in Vi
 Chet Atkins, the versatile guitarist and record producer who was a leader in the growth of Nashville as a music center in the 1950's and part of the elite force that transformed  country music and affected popular musical taste in America, died on Saturday at his home in Nashville.  He was 
 James T. Ellis, a computer scientist who was one of the creators of Usenet, an international electronic discussion network that played an integral role in the growth of the popularity of the Internet, died on Thursday at his home in Harmony, Pa. He was 45. The cause was non-Hodgkin'
 Rabbi Ira Eisenstein, a key figure in the creation of the Reconstructionist movement in American Judaism, died on Thursday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 94 and lived in Silver Spring. Rabbi Eisenstein was the closest collaborator of Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan, th
 Chet Atkins, the versatile guitarist and record producer who was a leader in the growth of Nashville as a music center in the 1950's and part of the elite force that transformed country music and affected popular musical taste in America, died on Saturday at his home in Nashville.  He was 7
 Kenneth Schuyler Lynn, an author, editor and educator best known for his writings on American thought and his analytical studies of Mark Twain, Charlie Chaplin and Ernest Hemingway, died June 24 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 78 and lived in Washington. The cause 
 Dr. Lewis L. Coriell, a virologist who helped create the technology used to develop the polio vaccine and who founded the Coriell Institute for Medical Research, died on June 19 in Camden, N.J. He was 90. Dr. Coriell, of Moorestown, N.J., made innovations in human tissue culture tha
 Roy Longmore, who was proclaimed a legendary figure by the Australian government last year as one of the nation's last surviving veterans of the World War I battle at Gallipoli, died on June 21 at a nursing home in Melbourne. He was 107. Mr. Longmore was a lowly enlisted man and he 
 Joe Henderson, one of the great jazz saxophonists and a composer who wrote a handful of tunes known by almost every jazz student, died on Saturday in San Francisco. He was 64 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was heart failure after a long struggle with emphysema, The Associated
 Kenneth Schuyler Lynn, a historian of American thought noted for his analytical studies of Mark Twain, Charlie Chaplin and Ernest Hemingway, died on June 24 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 78 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications from leu
 Dr. Nikolai G. Basov, who shared a Nobel Prize in Physics for research that led to the development of lasers, has died, Russian news sources reported Monday. He was 78. The news reports did not specify when Dr. Basov died or the cause of death. In the 1950's, Dr. Basov and D
 Mordecai Richler, the cranky and combative Canadian novelist and critic whose sometimes ribald writing exposed the heart of Old World Montreal while skewering bourgeois ambition, the roots of Jewish identity and the Quebec separatist movement, died yesterday in a Montreal hospital. He was 7
 John Trubin, a prominent New York lawyer and quintessential political insider who spent much of his time working in state and city government, died Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Greenwich Village. He had undergone heart bypass surgery earlier 
 Ely Callaway, a versatile and charismatic business leader who founded the Callaway Golf Company, the world's largest maker of golf clubs, died yesterday at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 82. Mr. Callaway died of pancreatic cancer, which he had been suffering from since A
 Leonard Pines, who expanded his father's business selling deli meats from a wagon on Manhattan's Lower East Side into Hebrew National Kosher Foods, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 90. For most of his adult life, Mr. Pines would walk into the compa
 Ronald Monchak, a longtime creative executive in the Detroit advertising industry, died on June 26. He was 65 and lived in Rochester, Mich. The cause was leukemia, his former agency said. Mr. Monchak, known as Ron, was a copywriter who spent more than four decades at the age
 Ernie K-Doe, the eccentric rhythm-and-blues singer best known for his 1961 No. 1 hit ''Mother-in-Law,'' died on Thursday at a New Orleans hospital. He was 65. The cause was cirrhosis, said his wife and manager, Antoinette. Mr. K-Doe's career peaked in the early 1960's with a
 Robert E. Hupka, who won renown with his photographs of Toscanini, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 81. Mr. Hupka, who was born in Vienna and emigrated to the United States, was in charge of the record library at RCA Victor in the 1940's when he secretly photographed Toscanini re
 Stephen Ailes, a retired antitrust lawyer and government official who served as civilian head of the Army during the early buildup of American forces in South Vietnam, died on June 30 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89. Mr. Ailes (pronounced ales) retired in 1985 from the large 
 Tony Leswick, a wing for the Rangers, the Detroit Red Wings and the Chicago Blackhawks whose fluke goal in overtime of Game 7 gave Detroit the 1954 Stanley Cup championship, died last Sunday at a hospital in New Westminster, British Columbia. He was 78. The cause was believed to be 
 William Joseph Mouton Jr., a structural engineer and emeritus professor of architecture at Tulane University who provided the physical underpinnings for the growth of the New Orleans skyline, died June 30 at a New Orleans hospital. He was 70 and lived in Harahan, La., a suburb of New Orlean
 Harold S. Grossbardt, a founder of Colony Records, the famed collector's store now on Broadway at 49th Street in Manhattan, died on June 10 at his home in Aventura, Fla. He was 85. Mr. Grossbardt, who was known as Nappy, helped make Colony a fixture of Tin Pan Alley, the center of N
 The Rev. John F. Hotchkin, widely considered a guiding spirit in the Roman Catholic Church's ecumenical efforts in the United States, died on June 24 at his home in Washington. He was 66. He had severe bronchitis, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops said in announcing his de
 Patriarch Maximus V Hakim, who for more than 30 years was spiritual leader of the small Greek Catholic Church and who sought better relations with the larger Eastern Orthodox Church, died on June 29 in a hospital in Beirut. He was 93. Elected in 1967 as the 20th patriarch of Antioch
 Charles Neider, a prolific essayist, novelist, nature writer and Mark Twain scholar, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 86. Mr. Neider edited and annotated a dozen anthologies of Twain's short stories, humorous sketches, essays, travel books, novels and letters,
 Rolim Adolfo Amaro, a pioneering airline executive who played an important role in the modernization of Brazil's aviation industry, died on Sunday when the helicopter he was flying crashed in a deserted stretch of countryside near the border of Brazil and Paraguay. He was 58. Mr. Am
 Dr. Eugene P. Cronkite, an expert in radiation biology who was among the first to recognize and report on links between cancer and exposure to sublethal levels of radiation, died on June 23 at his home in Setauket, N.Y. He was 86. In addition, Dr. Cronkite developed a center for the
 Msgr. John Patrick Carroll-Abbing, a priest who founded Boys' Town and Girls' Town of Italy 56 years ago for the waifs left after World War II, died on Monday at Boys' Town of Rome. He was 88. He had worked on day-to-day management until recently and died after  a stroke, the organi
 Otto Rosenberg, a German Gypsy who survived Nazi persecution and described it in a volume of memoirs, ''A Gypsy in Auschwitz,'' died last Thursday in Berlin, the German newspaper Berliner Zeitung has reported. He was 74. The cause of death was not immediately disclosed. Whil
 Dr. Gerald L. Geison, a biographer of Louis Pasteur and an expert on the history of medicine, died July 3 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 58. The cause was an enlarged heart, according to Princeton, where he was on the faculty for more than 30 years. Dr. Geison's most 
 Lou Kusserow, an outstanding back who ran for two touchdowns in Columbia's monumental football upset of Army in 1947 and later became a producer for NBC Sports, died June 30 at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 73. The cause of death was complications from prostate cancer, ac
 Abraham Schrader, a garment manufacturer who cut a wide swath in the Seventh Avenue ready-to-wear trade, died yesterday on the Abe Schrader Floor of Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 100. Mr. Schrader, who was universally called Abe, reigned as one of the kings of Seve
 Rabbi Benjamin M. Kahn, executive vice president of B'nai B'rith International from 1971 to 1976, died on July 4 at a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 87 and lived in Silver Spring. Rabbi Kahn retired from B'nai B'rith in 1976 and was then elected honorary executive vice presid
 Heinz Prechter, who as an exchange student from Bavaria brought the concept of car sunroofs to the United States and who went on to become a major manufacturer of  automotive products and a leading contributor to the campaigns of both President Bush and his father, died on July 6 at a guest
 John H. Holdridge, a longtime Foreign Service official who accompanied President Richard M. Nixon on his historic visit to Beijing in 1972, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 76 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Holdridge, 
 Maceo Anderson, the last surviving founding member of the Four Step Brothers, one of the world's most celebrated and enduring tap acts, died on July 4 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles. The Four Step Brothers, billed as ''eight feet of rhythm,'' played
 Morris H. Bergreen, a lawyer, businessman and administrator who as president of the Skirball Foundation oversaw the donation of millions of dollars to New York University, the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles and other recipients, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 
 Fred Marcellino, a freelance designer and illustrator who changed the way book covers and jackets for contemporary fiction are designed and who later became an author and illustrator of award-winning children's books, died Thursday. He was  61. The cause was colon cancer, said his w
 Meyer P. Potamkin, a Philadelphia banker and philanthropist who assembled one of the country's finest private collections of American art, died on July 8 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 91. Mr. Potamkin, known as Pat, and his wife, Vivian, built their collection during five deca
 Andrew E. Gibson, a shipping executive who was an assistant secretary of commerce in the Nixon administration, died on July 8 at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Gibson went to Washington in 1969 at the beginning of the Nixo
 Michael Murtagh, chairman of the physics department at Brookhaven National Laboratory and an expert on high-energy physics, died on Thursday at John T. Mather Hospital in Port Jefferson, N.Y. He was 57 and lived in Shoreham, N.Y. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his wife,
 Norman Singer, a teacher and arts executive who directed several music organizations in New York City, where he also presented major dance troupes, died on Saturday in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Sandisfield, Mass. Mr. Singer was born in Rockaway Beach, Queens, in
 The Rev. Rodney Kirk, an Episcopal priest who became a guiding spirit behind Manhattan Plaza, the Midtown Manhattan housing complex for artists and writers, which he directed for many years, died Thursday at his home in St. Croix, V.I. He was 67 and had moved to St. Croix after retiring fou
 Eugene Brooks, a lawyer and writer who gave frequent readings with his brother, the poet Allen Ginsberg, died on Wednesday. He was 80. Mr. Brooks, who was born Eugene Ginsberg, changed his surname after he was discharged from the Army in 1945. He graduated from Montclair State Teach
 Jerome A. Danzig, whose early work in broadcasting as a reporter and a producer led to his appointment as a top adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Danzig was named to Rockefeller's staff i
 Mike Saltzstein, who for more than a quarter-century kept Coney Island's last historic carousel spinning through sunlit summers, ice-cold winters and lurching changes in the famed amusement area, died on July 4 in his Brooklyn apartment. He was 60. He apparently died of a heart atta
 Richard P. Rogers, director of the Film Study Center at Harvard University, and a filmmaker, died on Saturday at his home in Wainscott, N.Y. He was 57 and also had homes in Manhattan and Cambridge, Mass. The cause was melanoma, said his wife, Susan Meiselas. Mr. Rogers spent
 Dr. Robert F. Rushmer, a pediatrician and physiologist who used bioengineering to monitor living hearts and track fetal cardiac function, died on Friday at home at a retirement community in a Seattle suburb. He was 86. Dr. Rushmer was the founding director of the Center for Bioengin
 William C. Breed III, a financial executive active in charitable and civic affairs, died in Greenwich, Conn., on July 9. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich. He had complications after contracting Alzheimer's disease, the Edgewood Management Company, a Manhattan-based investment adviso
 David E. Babcock, a former chairman and chief executive of May Department Stores, died last Friday in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 86. The cause was complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, said Michael J. Babcock, his son. Mr. Babcock joined the
 Elmer W. Henderson, a retired government lawyer who helped make civil rights history after enduring an insult on a 1942 train trip, died on Tuesday at a nursing home here. He was 88 and lived in Washington. In 1942, Mr. Henderson was a field representative for President Franklin D. 
 Ernst Baier, a German figure-skating star of the 1930's, died on July 8 at a hospital in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, a winter resort in southern Germany. He was 95 and lived in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, the site of the 1936 Winter Olympics. By the time Baier turned professional in 1941, h
 Jia Lanpo, one of China's leading archaeologists and a director of the Peking man excavation, died on July 8 at his home in Beijing. He was 92. As director of the fossil site at Zhoukoudian, 30 miles southwest of Beijing, Mr. Jia helped discover the first Chinese hominid fossils, da
 Marco Zanuso, one of the leading designers of furniture, appliances, buildings and more to emerge from postwar Italy, died on July 11 at his home in Milan. He was 85. Mr. Zanuso belonged to a generation of designers dedicated to exploring the new technologies and materials developed
 Gunther Gebel-Williams, who taught lions to ride on the backs of skittish horses, leopards to jump through flaming hoops held by the gleaming teeth of tigers, and elephants to take calm, leisurely walks through roaring traffic in the nation's busiest cities, died yesterday at his home in Ve
 Scott Merrill, who played Macheath -- Mack the Knife -- in the hit 1954 production of ''The Threepenny Opera'' by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht at the Theater de Lys in Greenwich Village, died on June 28 at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Bristol, Conn. Mr. Merri
 Bernard D. Fischman, a lawyer and civil liberties advocate, died on July 11 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. A commercial litigator and a corporate lawyer, he also worked without charge as a civil liberties lawyer. Mr. Fischman was of counsel to the
 The Rev. Dr. Howard Schomer, a former president of the Chicago Theological Seminary and activist on behalf of human rights and civil rights, died on June 28 in a hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 86 and moved to Oakland in the 1980's. Dr. Schomer was ordained a Congregationalist mi
 Hugh Randolph Wilbourn Jr., the founder and chairman of the Allied Telephone Company, now known as the Alltel Corporation, died on Thursday. He was 85. Mr. Wilbourn began his career in telecommunications as a lineman for Southwestern Bell Telephone in 1934. Ten years later, Mr. Wilb
 John Brook Marriott, a Briton who for many years watched over the queen's bulging private stamp collection, considered one of the world's richest, died on July 3 at Godalming, Surrey. He was 78. His death was reported in the British press, which cited no cause. He was a wart
 Johnny LoBianco, a boxing referee in New York for three decades who worked a host of championship bouts, most notably Roberto Duran's controversial knockout of Ken Buchanan in 1972, died last Monday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was 85. The cause was congestive heart fa
 Dr. Arthur F. Davidsen, a Johns Hopkins astrophysicist who helped define the density and composition of intergalactic space and was a prime mover in transforming the university into an astronomical powerhouse, died Thursday in a Baltimore hospital. He was 57. The cause was complicat
 Jonathan C. Rice, an influential figure in the development of public television in the United States, died on Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 85. He had a long illness, said KQED, the San Francisco public television station, in announcing the death of Mr. Rice, who found
 Milton Gabler, who founded America's first independent jazz record label, became the first to reissue out-of-print jazz recordings and for years operated what many considered New York City's most comprehensive and knowledgeable jazz record store, the Commodore Music Shop, died on July 20 at
 William Vincent McDermott Jr., a Boston surgeon who had taught generations of young physicians since proving his mettle as a combat surgeon in World War II, died last Thursday at his home in Dedham, Mass. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his family said. At his death, Dr. Mc
 Erik Barnouw, whose classic three-volume history of broadcasting in the United States defined the sweep, power and foibles of the industry that forever altered communication and public life, died last Thursday in Fair Haven, Vt. He was 93. Mr. Barnouw, who came to the United States 
 Dr. Joseph J. Marbach, an expert in the diagnosis and treatment of chronic jaw and facial pain, died on July 22 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Marbach, who was a professor at the Un
 Jules Buck, a film producer who was a battlefield cameraman for John Huston's World War II documentaries and later helped to launch Peter O'Toole on his movie career, died July 19 in Paris, where he lived. He was 83. Mr. Buck, who was born in St. Louis, began his career as a still p
 James John McCaffrey, the co-founder of a New York advertising agency known for campaigns of understated elegance, died on Saturday at a hospital in Bangor, Me. He was 79 and lived in Blue Hill, Me., after residing several years in Castine, Me. The cause was complications from a str
 Robert O. Lowery, the city's first black fire commissioner who served at a time when arson-fueled blazes raged through the city's minority neighborhoods, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 85 and had homes in Washington Heights and on the island of St. Vincent, his daughter Trudy 
 Dr. Dave Freeman, the only American man to win a world singles championship in badminton and the only one to be ranked No. 1 in the world, died June 28 at San Diego Hospice. Freeman, who lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., was 80 and had Merkle cell carcinoma, his family said. Until t
 Don Sunseri, an artist, teacher and the founding director of Grace, an art workshop program for the handicapped and elderly that became a national model, died on July 19 at his home in West Glover, Vt. He was 62. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Carol Putnam, managing director 
 Jack Ubaldi, a restaurateur and butcher who won renown late in life as a cooking teacher and co-author of a book about meat, died on July 14 at his home in Queens. He was 90. He had retired as a butcher and was teaching in the Culinary Arts Program at the New School in 1986 when the
 Otto Wittmann, former director of the Toledo Museum of Art, died on July 14 in Montecito, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Wittmann, who retired from the Toledo Museum in 1977, was widely credited with having built it into a world-class institution. He made notable acquisitions in the fields o
 Charles Granville Rob, a British-born surgeon who survived his baptism by fire in North Africa to operate on Sir Winston Churchill and Middle Eastern royalty and to teach generations of young physicians, died Thursday at a hospital in Berlin, Vt. He was 88 and lived in Bethesda, Md., and Mo
 Fabio Taglioni, an engineer and designer who led the transformation of the Ducati motorcycle from its origins as cheap transportation for Italians after World War II to a glamorous, high-performance machine that won racing laurels and the hearts of legions of recreational riders around the 
 Bertie Felstead, the last known surviving member of the British battalion in World War I that laid down its weapons to play soccer with the Germans in a spontaneous and long-remembered Christmas truce of 1915, died July 22 in Gloucester, England. He was 106. The truce lasted perhaps
 Edward Gierek, Poland's Western-oriented Communist leader for 10 years until he was toppled in 1980 by food protests and strikes that led to the creation of Solidarity, the Soviet bloc's first independent trade union, died yesterday in the southern Polish town of Cieszyn, Reuters reported. 
 Harold Land, a West Coast tenor saxophonist who had a brush with the jazz pantheon through a brief tenure with the Clifford Brown-Max Roach Quintet in the mid-1950's, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 73 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Lydia.    
 E. Lawrence Tabat, the former chairman and chief executive of the Dictaphone Corporation, a maker of dictating systems, which was acquired by Pitney Bowes, died on July 25 in Tequesta, Fla., where he lived. He was 88. Mr. Tabat joined Dictaphone as president and chief executive in 1
 Hugo Princz, a United States citizen who survived the Holocaust and won a 41-year battle for reparations from Germany, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Highland Park, N.J. He was 78. He eventually won an undisclosed part of a $2.1 million settlement, shared with 11 others, af
