 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian whose more than 20 books shaped discussions for two generations about America's past and who himself was a provocative, unabashedly liberal partisan, most notably in serving in the Kennedy White House, died last night in Manhattan. He was 89.        
 Thomas C. Burke, a lawyer who was a member of the New York City Board of Education in the 1960s and a trustee of the Altman Foundation, which owned the Fifth Avenue department store B. Altman & Company, died Friday in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Watch Hill, R.I. The 
 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian whose more than 20 books shaped discussions for two generations about America's past and who himself was a provocative, unabashedly liberal partisan, most notably while serving in the Kennedy White House, died Wednesday night in Manhattan. He was 89.
 Bobby Rosengarden, a jazz drummer who worked with musicians from Igor Stravinsky to Jimi Hendrix but became best known for making musical wisecracks as the bandleader on ''The Dick Cavett Show,'' died Tuesday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 82. The cause was kidney failure, said his wife, 
 Charles Forte, the owner of a hotel and restaurant empire that ranged from the Waldorf Hotel in London to the budget chain Travelodge, died on Wednesday at his home in London. He was 98. His death was announced by Sue Heady, a spokeswoman for the hotel company owned by Mr. Forte's s
 Emmett Williams, an American poet whose transposition of words into visual art and performances made him one of the founding artists of Fluxus, a performance-oriented avant-garde art movement of the 1960s, died on Feb. 14 in Berlin. He was 81 and had lived in Berlin for many years. 
 Herman Brix, who played football in the Rose Bowl, set world shot-put records and portrayed Tarzan in the movies before becoming a dapper Hollywood leading man, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 100, but for 34 years he had been Bruce Bennett, the name he took to pursue a clas
 Jay Harnick, a founder of Theaterworks/USA, the nation's largest touring children's theater company, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 78. He died at the Isabella House nursing home after a long illness, said his daughter, Jane Harnick. Since Mr. Harnick helped to start T
 Percival Leach, who helped turn a ramshackle collection of pre-Revolutionary and mid-19th-century buildings along an old industrial canal in northern New Jersey into Waterloo Village, a version of Colonial Williamsburg, died on Monday in Hackettstown, N.J. He was 80 and lived in a restored 
 Clem Labine, the All-Star relief pitcher of the 1950s who helped bring the Brooklyn Dodgers four pennants and their only World Series championship, died yesterday in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 80. The cause was a pair of strokes he sustained after being hospitalized with pneumonia, sai
 Myer Feldman, an aide to President John F. Kennedy who remained virtually unknown to the public while playing an integral role in planning his presidential campaign, White House press conferences and governmental policies, died Thursday in Bethesda, Md. He was 92. His son, James, an
 Erich Windisch, whose adjustment to an injured shoulder reshaped the sport of ski jumping, bringing competitors' arms to their sides, died Feb. 14 near his home in Vail, Colo. He was 89. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Sasha. It was during a tournament in his native
 Thomas F. Eagleton, a former United States senator whose legislative accomplishments were overshadowed by his removal as the Democratic vice presidential candidate in 1972 after revelations of mental illness and electroshock therapy, died yesterday in Richmond Heights, Mo. He was 77 and liv
 Bob Hattoy, who drew wide attention with a nationally televised speech about AIDS at the 1992 Democratic National Convention and then became a forceful advocate for gay and lesbian issues in the Clinton White House, died on Sunday in Sacramento. He was 56. The cause was complication
 Henri Troyat, the Russian-born French writer whose novels and biographies earned him an immense following in France and considerable recognition abroad, died here on Sunday. He was 95. His death was announced by the Académie Française, of which he was a member. Mr. Troyat 
 William R. Anderson, who commanded the nuclear-powered submarine Nautilus on its historic cruise beneath the North Pole in August 1958 and who later served three terms in Congress, died Feb. 25 near his home in Leesburg, Va. He was 85. His wife, Patricia, confirmed the death to The 
 The French critic and provocateur Jean Baudrillard, whose theories about consumer culture and the manufactured nature of reality were intensely discussed both in rarefied philosophical circles and in blockbuster movies like ''The Matrix,'' died yesterday in Paris. He was 77. Michel 
 Martin A. Trow, a sociologist whose research on higher education reverberated through North America and Europe, particularly his description of the transition of a college education from elite privilege to mass product, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 80. Th
 Jay Haley, an early theorist of family therapy who in the 1960s advocated hypnosis and deeper social involvement for patients to cure emotional problems more rapidly, died on Feb. 13 at his home in San Diego. He was 83. Mr. Haley's death was confirmed by his family. As a tra
 Paul Secon, who in 1949 loaded the family station wagon with discontinued and slightly damaged ceramics from an upstate New York factory, drove to Manhattan and opened the first Pottery Barn store, died Feb. 24 at his home in Rochester. He was 91. The death was confirmed by his brot
 Winthrop D. Jordan, a National Book Award-winning historian who wrote several influential works on American slavery and race relations, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Oxford, Miss. He was 75. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, said his wife, Cora. 
 John J. McCabe, who held top executive positions at five newspapers, including The New York Times, and also served in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, died on Wednesday at his home in Medford, Mass. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, his son John Jr. said. 
 Nils Y. Wessell, who as president of Tufts University from 1953 to 1966 guided its transformation from a small college to a respected university, died Sunday near his home in Naples, Fla. He was 92. The death was confirmed by his son, Nils H. Wessell. Dr. Wessell oversaw the
 Agustín Tamargo, an outspoken Cuban journalist who strongly criticized the regime of Fidel Castro in print and on the radio in Miami, where he became a leading voice of the exile community, died Wednesday in Miami Beach. He was 82. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter Li
 Warren Alpert, an entrepreneur who sold sheets and towels from his father's truck at age 13 and who two months ago donated $100 million to Brown University, died on March 3 in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The death was confirmed by his nephew Herbert Kaplan, presiden
 Vice Adm. Joseph Metcalf III, who in October 1983 was given less than two days to plan and start the controversial invasion of the Caribbean island of Grenada after President Ronald Reagan issued orders to overturn a Marxist coup, died on March 2 at his home in Washington. He was 79.       
 Ernie Ladd, a massive defensive tackle turned wrestler who was the only man elected to the American Football League Hall of Fame and the World Wrestling Entertainment Hall of Fame, died Saturday at his home in Franklin, La. He was 68. The cause was colon cancer, which had spread to 
 John Thow, a prolific composer of chamber, symphonic and stage works and a professor at the University of California at Berkeley, died on March 4. He was 57. His death was announced by Diana Thow, his daughter, who said the cause was a chronic illness. Mr. Thow's music combi
 F. Clark Howell, credited with transforming the study of human origins from just ''stones and bones'' to a broader discipline drawing on biology, ecology, geology and primatology, died on Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 81. The death was announced yesterday by the Un
 The Venerable Maha Ghosananda, a Buddhist monk who led the rebuilding of his religion in Cambodia, calling for peace and reconciliation after the overthrow of the Khmer Rouge in 1979, died Monday in Northampton, Mass. He was in his late 70s and lived in Providence, R.I., and Leverett, Mass.
 Antonio Ortiz Mena, who as Mexico's finance minister in the 1960s was the architect of a period of remarkable growth known as the ''Mexican miracle,'' died on Monday. He was 99. According to news reports, he died at a hospital in Mexico City where he was recuperating from a fall at 
 Bowie Kuhn, the commissioner of baseball during a tumultuous 15-year period when the game experienced dramatic growth accompanied by unprecedented labor strife, died yesterday at a hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. Kuhn, who lived in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., was 80. The cause was compl
 Eustace Lycett, whose work helping to create special effects for major Disney productions -- including characters in ''Mary Poppins'' who walk on smoke, and seemingly empty suits of medieval armor engaged in combat in ''Bedknobs and Broomsticks'' -- earned him a share in two Academy Awards,
 Marc Torsilieri, who looked like a ginger-bearded lumberjack and played the part in splendid fashion by annually felling the Christmas tree for Rockefeller Center, died on March 12 in Somerville, N.J. He was 48, a little over half the age of most of the Norway spruces he helped find, transp
 Richard S. Prather, a hugely popular mystery writer of the 1950s and '60s whose novels were known for their swift violence, loopy humor and astonishing number of characters with no clothes on, died on Feb. 14 at his home in Sedona, Ariz. He was 85. The cause was complications of res
 Jay Kennedy, who as editor in chief of King Features Syndicate revived ''Prince Valiant'' and introduced the popular newspaper comic strips ''Curtis,'' ''Mutts'' and ''Zits,'' died on Thursday in Costa Rica. He was 50 and lived in New York City and Orient Point, N.Y. He drowned in a
 Stuart Rosenberg, a hard-working director of series television and theatrical films who captured the simmering anti-authoritarianism of the late 1960s in the widely popular Paul Newman prison drama ''Cool Hand Luke,'' died on Thursday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79. 
 John W. Backus, who assembled and led the I.B.M. team that created Fortran, the first widely used programming language, which helped open the door to modern computing, died on Saturday at his home in Ashland, Ore. He was 82. His daughter Karen Backus announced the death, saying the 
 Raymond D. Nasher, a real-estate developer and banker who, along with his wife, Patsy, amassed one of the world's best collections of Modern and contemporary sculpture and built a lavish public home for it in downtown Dallas, died on Friday in Dallas. He was 85. Mr. Nasher had becom
 Ernst Haefliger, a Swiss tenor who was most renowned as an interpreter of German art song and oratorio roles, died on Saturday in Davos, Switzerland, where he maintained a second home. He was 87 and lived in Vienna. Charlotte Schroeder, his American manager, announced his death.    
 Jim Cronin, a self-trained zoologist who built a wildlife park on a deserted pig farm in southern England, then roamed the world with his wife to rescue illegally captured chimpanzees, orangutans and other primates, died Saturday in Manhattan. Mr. Cronin, who lived at the wildlife park, Mon
 B. Franklin Kahn, one of the first developers to recognize that real estate investments could trade much like mutual funds, died March 8 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart and kidney failure, said a daughter, Laurie Kahn-Leavitt. Almost
 Bishop G. E. Patterson, the presiding bishop of the Church of God in Christ, the nation's largest African-American Pentecostal denomination, died Tuesday in Memphis. He was 67 and lived in Memphis, where the church has its headquarters. The cause was heart failure, his nephew Milton
 Calvert G. DeForest, the dweebish man who gained cult status on David Letterman's late-night shows as the comic figure Larry (Bud) Melman precisely because he was not funny, died Monday in Babylon, Long Island. He was 85. He suffered from a long illness, according to a statement by 
 Alec Wyton, an English-born organist, composer and teacher who brought contemporary influence to American church music over decades, two of them as organist and choirmaster at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in Manhattan, died on Sunday in Danbury, Conn. He was 85. His d
 Dwight R. Chamberlain, a naturalist who studied the language of crows and ravens and helped to explain the intricate vocal cues they use in fighting, feeding and social interactions, died on March 10 at his home in Leota, Ind. He was 68. The cause was complications after a stroke, h
 Dr. Harold I. Lief, a leading sex therapist who was an early advocate of having medical schools put greater emphasis on sex education in training doctors, died on March 15 at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. In 19
 Herman Stein, a little-known craftsman who, unseen but very much heard, helped terrify the audiences of a spate of classic horror and science-fiction films, died on March 15 at his home in Los Angeles. Mr. Stein, a former staff composer at the Universal studio in Hollywood, was 91. 
 Milton Wexler, a psychoanalyst who applied his talent for conducting group therapy to brainstorming sessions for scientists working on the hereditary disease that ravaged his wife's family, died on March 16 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 98. The cause was complications o
 Walter J. Turnbull, who founded the Boys Choir of Harlem, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was cancer, said his brother Horace, the choir's former executive vice president. From modest beginnings in the basement of a church on 123rd Str
 Howard P. Ronson, a British real estate developer who in the 1980s became one of the most prolific builders of office space in Manhattan, died Wednesday near his home in Monaco. He was 63. The cause was complications of cancer, said Larry Wyman, a principal in the HRO Group, where M
 Freddie Francis, a versatile British cinematographer whose talent for creating atmosphere won him two Oscars, died on March 17 in London. He was 89. He had suffered a stroke in December and never recovered, his family told British newspapers. Mr. Francis, who received Oscars
 John T. Gilbride, a former chairman and chief executive of the Todd Shipyards Corporation, once the largest independent shipbuilding company in the country, died on March 17 at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 90. The cause was lung disease, his son Frank said. Mr. Gilbrid
 J. Kirk Osborn, a lawyer who gained national prominence defending one of three Duke University lacrosse players against a dancer's accusations of sexual assault last year, died Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Tania, said. Mr. Os
 Jerry Girard, a sports broadcaster for WPIX-TV in New York from 1974 to 1995, died Sunday in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 74. He died of esophageal cancer at Westchester Medical Center, his family said. Girard, originally Gerard Alfred Suglia, was born Aug. 6, 1932, in Chicago. He
 Robert E. Petersen, who channeled his enduring California-boy fervor for fast cars with tailfins and chrome-plated engines into a string of successful magazines, including Hot Rod and Motor Trend, died Friday in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Petersen, who lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., was 80. 
 Axel G. Rosin, a former president of the Book-of-the-Month Club and later the head of the Scherman Foundation, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99. The death was confirmed by his daughter Karen Sollins. Mr. Rosin (pronounced Rose-EEN) was president of the Book
 Orin E. Atkins, who helped transform Ashland Oil from a regional oil refiner into a multinational energy conglomerate but whose 16-year tenure as chief executive was marred by improper business dealings, died on Friday in Dallas. He was 82. The cause was complications of pneumonia, 
 Paul C. Lauterbur, who shared the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 2003 for developing magnetic resonance imaging into a way to look inside living organisms, died yesterday at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 77. The cause was kidney disease, said the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champ
 Marshall Rogers, a comic-book artist who made his name illustrating Batman at a significant period in 1977 and '78, was found dead by a family member on Saturday at his home in Fremont, Calif. He was 57. The cause has not been determined, said his sister, Suzanne R. Schmachtenberger
 Morton A. Kornreich, a former national chairman of the United Jewish Appeal and chairman of the UJA-Federation of New York, died Tuesday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 82 and lived in White Plains. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his son James said. From 1988 to 1990, Mr. Korn
 Ransom A. Myers, a fisheries biologist whose work brought wide attention to collapsing fish stocks around the world, died on Tuesday in Halifax, Nova Scotia. He was 54. His death was announced by Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, where he ran a research laboratory focusing on the
 George C. Izenour, a pioneer in theater design and technology who helped bring automation to stagecraft, died Saturday in Philadelphia. He was 94. The death was announced by Jeffrey Milet, a partner in Mr. Izenour's theater design consulting company, George C. Izenour Associates.   
 Dr. Robert Austrian, who developed a pneumococcal vaccine that has saved the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, died Sunday in Philadelphia. He was 90. The cause was a stroke, said Dr. Harvey M. Friedman, chief of infectious diseases at the University of Pennsylvania, where D
 Bernard R. Landau, a biochemist and physician whose innovative studies of how the liver processes glucose helped shed light on what goes wrong in diabetes, died on March 24 in Cleveland. He was 80 and lived in Shaker Heights, Ohio. The cause was a blood-borne infection, his family s
 Hy Weiss, a music executive from the hardscrabble early days of rock 'n' roll, died on March 20 in Englewood, N.J. He was 84 and lived in Rockleigh, N.J. His death was announced by the Zomba Label Group, of which his son, Barry Weiss, is president and chief executive. Born i
 J. Paul Sticht, a former chairman of the tobacco company R. J. Reynolds Industries, now called Reynolds American, died Tuesday in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 89. He lived in North Palm Beach, Fla., and had homes in Meredith, N.H., and Winston-Salem. Mr. Sticht died at the J. 
 Joel Brodsky, a photographer whose work appeared on the covers of hundreds of albums -- most memorably ''The Best of the Doors,'' with its provocative Christlike image of Jim Morrison in black and white -- died on March 1 in Stamford, Conn., where he had lived for five years. He was 67 and 
 Tony Scott, a distinguished jazz clarinetist who in the 1950s helped steer his instrument out of the swing era and into the sax-infested waters of bebop, died on Wednesday at his home in Rome. He was 85 and had lived in Italy for many years. The apparent cause was complications of t
 Toshio Sasaki, a Japanese sculptor known for works in public spaces, particularly ''The First Symphony of the Sea,'' a 322-foot-long wall relief at the New York Aquarium at Coney Island, died on March 10 near his home in Nagakute in the Aichi Prefecture of Japan. He was 60 and also had a ho
