 Dr. George H. Hitchings, who won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1988 for pharmaceutical research that led to the creation of drugs to treat leukemia, gout, malaria and disorders of the human immunity system and that eventually made organ transplants possible, died on Friday morning at his h
 Dr. Rachmiel Levine, whose experiments on how insulin increases the body's use of blood sugars overturned conventional scientific belief and set new courses for diabetes research, died on Feb. 22 in Faulkner Hospital in Boston. He was 87 and lived in Newton, Mass. For 13 years, Dr. 
 Harvey C. Russell Jr., a retired Pepsico executive who was the first black man to become a vice president at a major American corporation, died on Feb. 20 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 years old and had homes in Crestwood, N.Y., and Martha's Vineyard, Mass. The
 Col. Russell P. (Red) Reeder, who accumulated six demerits in his first two hours as a cadet at West Point, but went on to become one of its most beloved graduates and a highly decorated commander in the D-Day invasion of Normandy, died last Sunday at Inova Mount Vernon Hospital in Alexandr
 Antonio Prohias, the cartoonist who drew ''Spy vs. Spy'' for Mad  magazine, died on Tuesday at Mercy Hospital in Miami. He was 77 and lived in Miami. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter Marta Pizarro. From January 1961 until his retirement in 1990, Mr. Prohias presi
 Dr. Samuel A. Corson, who spent years using dogs to conduct valuable but arcane biophysical research only to have his career upstaged by his own laboratory subjects, died on Jan. 27 at the home of a daughter in Granger, Ind. He was 88 and known as the father of pet-assisted therapy.        
 Dr. George H. Hitchings, who won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1988 for pharmaceutical research that led to the creation of drugs to treat leukemia, gout, malaria and disorders of the human immunity system and that eventually made organ transplants possible, died on Friday at his home in C
 Ramchandran Jaikumar, a professor at the Harvard Business School who specialized in computer-aided manufacturing, died on Feb. 10 in Quito, Ecuador. The cause was a heart attack suffered while mountain climbing, the school said. He was 53. Dr. Jaikumar focused on the study o
 Theodore W. Schultz, an economist at the University of Chicago whose research on agriculture and education was honored with a Nobel Memorial Prize in 1979, died Thursday at a nursing home in Evanston, Ill. The cause of death was an infection that did not respond to treatment, his fa
 Todd Duncan, the baritone who created the role of Porgy in Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess'' and was the first black singer to join the New York City Opera, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 95. Mr. Duncan, whose stage credits beyond Porgy include the Lord's General in 
 Tully Filmus, a realist painter and portraitist, died on Wednesday at his home in Fern Hill, Mass. He was 94. Mr. Filmus was born in Ataki, a region of Bessarabia, which is now part of Moldova, in 1903 and came to  the United States with his parents in 1913. They lived in Philadelph
 Albert Lippert, a once pudgy garment executive who stumbled on a diet program that made him both svelte and rich, died on Saturday during a business trip to South Africa. He was 72 and a founder of Weight Watchers. Friends said the cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, which he suffered 
 Henry Steele Commager, one of the nation's most distinguished historians and teachers, a prolific author, editor and essayist, and an eloquent defender of the Constitution, died yesterday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 95. For decades, the name Henry Steele Commager was synony
 John L. Bissell, an American businessman who ran a handloomed-textile export business in India for more than 30 years, died yesterday in New Delhi. He was 66 and lived in New Delhi. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, according to his cousin, Hector Prud'homme. Mr. Bissell was born
 Cary Reich, a financial journalist and the author of a widely praised biography of Nelson A. Rockefeller, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York. He was 48, and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Reich, who was working on a second volume of the Rockefeller book, became
 Darcy O'Brien, who turned a Hollywood childhood into award-winning fiction, taught literature at two universities and became the best-selling author of several ''true-crime'' books, died on Monday at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 59. The cause was a heart attack, a spokesman for h
 Harlan H. Hatcher, who as the eighth president of the University of Michigan guided the institution through a time of growth that lifted it into the ranks of the nation's elite research universities, died on Wednesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 99. Serving as president o
 Daniel J. Crowley, an anthropologist who loved parties so much that he devoted his life to attending carnivals, festivals and other folk celebrations in every corner of the globe, died on Feb. 24 while in Oruro, Bolivia, for a Mardi Gras carnival. He was 76 and had been professor of
 Dr. Edward James Beattie, a leading chest surgeon, lung cancer specialist and medical educator who was long affiliated with Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Beth Israel Medical Center, died last Friday at Beth Israel. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was maligna
 Fred W. Friendly, the former CBS News executive who was a towering  figure in the evolution of news coverage on television, died Tuesday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 82. As a CBS News producer, Mr. Friendly and his longtime partner, Edward R. Murrow, vir
 Gregoris Staktopoulos, a Greek journalist who spent a decade in prison in connection with the murder of George Polk, the distinguished CBS news correspondent, in northern Greece in 1948, died on Saturday while being taken to the Evangelismos Hospital in Athens. He was 88 and had lived in At
 Harry Stanley, a vaudevillian turned lecturer who was such a subtle master of philolillogical orotundity and frammatical linguistation that when he got wound up it took a while before it became apparent that nobody had the foggiest idea what he was talking about, died on Feb. 15 at the Acto
 Jack Micheline, a Beat poet who wrote about the downtrodden using the rhythms and sounds of street speech, died on Friday on a commuter train leaving San Francisco. He was 68 and, friends said, lived near poverty in a San Francisco hotel. He had suffered from diabetes for years and 
 Dr. Mark Dexter Hollis, a public health official who raised the alarm about air and water pollution nearly 50 years ago and led efforts against malaria as chief of a precursor of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, died on Feb. 24 at the Lakeland Regional Medical Center in Lakel
 Garner Edward Shriver, a former Republican Congressman from south-central Kansas, died on Sunday at Via Christi-St. Francis Hospital in Wichita, Kan. A resident of Wichita, he was 85. Mr. Shriver served eight terms in the House of Representatives, from 1961 through 1975. He was defe
 Dr. Hans J. Muller-Eberhard, an immunologist who made crucial discoveries about the workings of the body's immune system, died on Tuesday at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 70 and lived in Houston. The cause was cancer, a university official s
 Richard F. Shepard, a retired New York Times writer who was also a former cultural news editor of The Times and was known for his amiably down-to-earth manner, which included meeting friends at a Theater District cafe he called ''the Polish Tea Room,'' died last night at his home in Fresh M
 Bishop John Maury Allin, the 23rd presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, who was a pivotal supporter of Mississippi's effort to rebuild burned black churches in the 1960's but was an ardent critic of the ordination of women, died on Friday in Jackson, Miss. He was 77 and had been
 Eric M. Breindel, the former editorial page editor for The New York Post and the conservative moderator of a weekly news show on public affairs on the Fox News Channel,  died yesterday afternoon. He was 42. Mr. Breindel, a lifelong resident of New York City, died at New York Hospita
 Richard F. Shepard, a cigar-biting, storytelling, retired New York Times writer and former cultural news editor whose gentle wit and down-to-earth manner often masked an eclectic learning that embraced languages, literature, the theater from Yiddish to Broadway, and the neighborhoods of New
 Ronald Johnson, a visionary poet who wanted to take his God out of church and find Him, say, in the exploding light of dawn as it rose across the prairie of his native Kansas, died on Wednesday at his father's home in Topeka. He was 62. The cause was brain cancer, his  family said. 
 Bishop John Maury Allin, the 23d presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, who was a pivotal supporter of Mississippi's effort to rebuild burned black churches in the 1960's but was an ardent critic of the ordination of women, died on Friday in Jackson, Miss. He was 77 and lived in Jackson 
 Sydney Gruson, a former hotel bellboy who became a foreign correspondent, the foreign editor of The New York Times and then a corporate executive of The Times Company, died yesterday evening at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was not immediately cl
 Waldo Howland, a yacht builder and preservationist, died Feb. 26 at his home in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 89. After graduating from Harvard in 1930, Mr. Howland went to work at the Concordia Company of Padanaram, Mass. He rose to a leadership position and ran the company until his ret
 Edward Tatnall Canby, a choral director, teacher and writer whose conducting specialty was Renaissance and Baroque music but whose wide interests led him to work as a folklorist and as an advocate of electronic music, died on Feb. 21 at his home in Cornwall, Conn. He was 85 and also had a h
 Eric M. Breindel, the former editorial page editor for The New York Post and the conservative moderator of a weekly public affairs program on the Fox News Channel, died Saturday afternoon. He was 42. Mr. Breindel, a lifelong resident of Manhattan, died at New York Hospital-Cornell M
 Norman E. Isaacs, a prominent newspaper editor and expert on press matters, died on Saturday in a residence for people with Alzheimer's disease in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 89 and formerly lived in Katonah, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Stephen. Born in 
 Arkady N. Shevchenko, who stunned the world two decades ago when he became the highest-ranking Soviet diplomat to defect to the United States, died on Feb. 28 in obscurity in his suburban home in Bethesda, Md. He was 67. Mr. Shevchenko's death was announced in a brief statement by h
 Lloyd Bridges, whose acting career spanned more than five decades and whose sons, Jeff and Beau, also became well-known actors, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. Although he had suffered from minor illnesses in the last year, he continued to work and had recently
 Charles Edward Hall, the AIDS patient who fought in the Florida courts for the right to die with the help of a doctor,  died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Fla. He was 36. Mr. Hall had been bedridden for months from complications of H.I.V., which he contracted in a blood tr
 Saul Novack, the former dean of arts and humanities at Queens College and a professor emeritus at the college's Aaron Copland School of Music, died on March 4 at New York Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Belle Harbor, N.Y. Ron Cannava, a spokesman for Queens College, said the cause 
 William F. Farah, whose men's apparel business was the object of one of the most bitter labor disputes in the history of the apparel industry, died Monday in a private nursing home in El Paso. He was 78. According to his son James, Mr. Farah had suffered a long illness. The 
 Jack Davies, a businessman turned winemaker who, with his wife, Jamie, transformed Schramsberg Vineyards in the Napa Valley of California into one of the country's pre-eminent producers of sparkling  wine, died on Tuesday at his home at the winery near Calistoga. He was 74. The caus
 Manuel Pineiro, the ruthless but urbane spymaster who for more than 30 years led Cuba's intelligence apparatus and directed its efforts to export revolution to the third world, died in a car crash in Havana early today, the Cuban state news agency Prensa Latina reported. He was 63. 
 Maynard A. Amerine, the elegant and erudite plant physiologist whose pioneering research helped revive the California wine industry after the repeal of Prohibition, died on Wednesday at his home in St. Helena, Calif. He was 87 and was widely acclaimed as the father of American wine.        
 Abe Ajay, an artist best known for his shallow, boxlike wall constructions and collages, died on Monday in a hospital near Bethel, Pa., where he lived. He was 78. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his wife, Betty Raymond. Mr. Ajay, the son of Syrian immigrants, worke
 Yale Brozen, a retired professor of business economics who was a vocal critic of government regulation, died on March 4 at his home in San Diego. He was 80. Mr. Brozen was suffering from heart disease, according to his wife, Katherine Hart Brozen. A member of the so-called C
 Adrian Marks, a Navy pilot who rescued 56 sailors struggling in the shark-filled Philippine Sea after the cruiser Indianapolis was sunk by Japanese torpedoes in July 1945, died on March 7 at Clinton County Hospital in his hometown of Frankfort, Ind. He was 81. Lieutenant Marks was f
 Charles F. Phillips, a former president of Bates College in Lewiston, Me., who helped oversee the Government's rationing of goods during World War II, died at the Central Maine Medical Center in Auburn on Tuesday. He was 87 and lived in Auburn. When he became president of Bates in 1
 Rudolf Baranik, a painter, writer and teacher well known in the art world for his political advocacy, died March 6 at his home in El Dorado, N.M., outside Santa Fe. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said Lucy R. Lippard, the art critic and a longtime friend. Mr. Baran
 Carleton Putnam, who helped create a major airline, wrote an acclaimed biography of Theodore Roosevelt, and then, driven by opposition to the Supreme Court's 1954 school desegregation decision, turned out a classic defense of racial segregation, died on March 5 at his home in Charlottesvill
 Donald Joyce, an organist whose expansive repertory ranged from Renaissance and Baroque works by Spanish, Portuguese and Mexican composers to recent scores by Philip Glass, died on Tuesday at the home of his sister, Virginia Keil, in North Brunswick, N.J. Mr. Joyce was 45 and lived in Manha
 Nathan R. Owen, the longtime chairman and chief executive of the General Signal Corporation who helped build it into a major industrial company, died March 9 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 78. The cause of death was complications related to abdominal surgery, David Owen, his
 Richard Plant, a teacher, a writer and a scholar of the Holocaust, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Mr. Plant was born in Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, and was educated in Switzerland. He later became a professor of Germanic literature at the City College of the Ci
 William W. Goodrich, a lawyer and pioneering advocate of food and pharmaceutical safety procedures died Tuesday at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va., of complications from lymphoma. He was 82 and lived in Arlington. When Mr. Goodrich joined the forerunner of the Food and Drug Adm
 Dr. Benjamin Spock, the pediatrician who gently coached anxious postwar parents to trust their ''own common sense,'' only to be blamed by some critics for the self-indulgence of those parents' children, the 60's generation, died on Sunday at his home in San Diego. He was 94. Over ha
 Gordon S. (Mickey) Cochran, a skiing coach whose four children became world-class skiers by heeding his instruction for years using the family rope tow in their Vermont back yard, died last Saturday at Respite House, a hospice in Williston, Vt. He was 74. The cause was congestive he
 Thomas F. O'Neil, the former chairman of RKO General studios who brought movies to television and experimented -- unsuccessfully -- with an early coin-operated pay-TV system, died Saturday night at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 82, and the cause of death was heart failure complicated 
 Dr. Thomas H. Johnson, a cosmic ray physicist whose findings were part of the foundation for the field of high energy physics, died on Feb. 25 at his home in Denmark, Me. He was 98. Dr. Johnson worked at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island before becoming vice presiden
 Daniel Katz, a retired University of Michigan psychology professor who was an expert on organizational psychology, died on Feb. 28. He was 94 and lived in Ann Arbor, Mich. Professor Katz won the American Psychological Association's Gold Medal Award in 1973, when he retired from his 
 Frank S. McCullough, a former New York State lawmaker and justice in State Supreme Court in Westchester, died last Wednesday at the United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 92 and lived in Rye, N.Y. After working as a lawyer in Westchester, Mr. McCullough, a Republican, entered 
 Koong-Kai Tse, a former senior executive of the American International Group, one of the nation's largest insurers, died March 9 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 91 and lived in New York and Miami. Mr. Tse joined the company as a junior accountant in the 1920's and served as a senior 
 Payson Sibley Wild, a retired professor of international relations and provost emeritus of Northwestern University, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 92. Dr. Wild, born in Chicago, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Wisconsin. He received a
 Stanley Jay Makowsky, a prominent figure in radio sports broadcasting under the name Stan Martyn for decades, died on March 1 at Temple University hospital in Philadelphia. He was 68. The cause of death was heart failure, according to his wife, Rose-Ila. Mr. Makowsky, a resi
 Charlie Milhaupt, vice president of the Gilman Paper Company and a former film producer, died on March 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was AIDS, said Mark McDonald, a friend. Mr. Milhaupt joined the company in 1990 and was also a member of the board of the 
 Dr. Derek H. R. Barton, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for adding a third dimension to chemical analysis, which has been central to research on new drugs and chemicals for decades, died on Monday at his home in College Station, Tex. He was 79. He had suffered a heart attack, s
 George W. Humphreys, a political adviser who worked in more than 80 election campaigns, all Republican except for his final one in Georgia,  died on Monday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 65 and had lived in Atlanta since moving from Manhattan about a dozen years ago. The ca
 Hideo Shima, a designer and driving force behind the building of the first bullet train, a symbol of the postwar re-emergence of Japan as a technological and economic power, died of a stroke yesterday in a hospital in Tokyo. He was 96. In the early 1960's, as the chief engineer of t
 When Atal Bihari Vajpayee was sworn in today as the 16th Prime Minister of India since independence 50 years ago, many onlookers outside the presidential palace thought he looked curiously uncomfortable. His first words as Prime Minister were certainly more solemn than cheerful. ''I have a 
 Cliff Barker, who helped the University of Kentucky win two National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball titles a half century ago and then coached and played in the National Basketball Association, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Satsuma, Fla. He was 77. He died in his
 George Hecht, a retired electronics manufacturer, inventor and major supporter of Cooper Union and many civic causes, died on March 9 at Astoria General Hospital in Queens. He was 90 and lived in Astoria. Until recently, Mr. Hecht was a presence in most activities of the Cooper Unio
 Jheri Redding, an Illinois farm boy who founded four hair care products companies, revolutionized the economics of the hair salon industry and changed the way much larger companies market shampoos, died on Sunday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Redding wa
 Peter L. Feller, a Tony Award-winning builder of sets for Broadway shows, died on March 13 at Holmes Regional Hospital in Melbourne, Fla. He was 78 and lived in Melbourne. The cause was a heart-related illness, his family said. Mr. Feller, the son of a master carpenter who a
 Vincent J. Galvani, a chemical engineer who was in charge of designing the trigger mechanism for the first atomic bomb during World War II, died on Wednesday at his home in Southampton, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Galvani made use of research on a number of other weapons, including buzz bom
 William M. Haenszel, an epidemiologist at the National Cancer Institute who set up the first national system to track cases of cancer and their possible causes, died on March 13 at his home in Wheaton, Ill. He was 87. That system -- called SEER, for Surveillance, Epidemiology and En
 Benjamin Bowden, an industrial designer who created a futuristic bicycle that became an expensive collector's item, died on March 6 in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 91. Mr. Bowden was born in London and studied at the Regent Street Polytechnic school, a daughter, Gina Bowden-Pierce, said.
 Jack R. Howard, a newspaper heir who became a pioneer in broadcasting, died yesterday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 87. The cause was pulmonary failure, said his son, Michael Balfe Howard. The son of Roy W. Howard, a founder of United Press, Mr. Howard was chairman of t
 F. Cecil Brenner, a scientist and regulator whose legacy can be found on nearly every tire on the road, died on Thursday at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 79. He died of complications after surgery for a brain tumor, his daughter  Vivian Brenner said.    
 Greg MacGregor, a foreign correspondent who reported on the Korean War as well as economic and political developments in Southeast Asia during a 17-year career at The New York Times, died on Sunday in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 85. The cause of death was cancer, according to his fam
 Michael Reardon, bartender to famous writers, mayors, journalists, stockbrokers, seamen, singers or any guy who dropped in off the street over the course of 30 years at the Lion's Head, a legendary species of New York bar that became extinct because people just didn't drink anymore the way 
 Albert Wolff, believed to have been the last survivor of the Untouchables, the band of reputedly incorruptible Federal agents under Eliot Ness who waged war against Al Capone in Prohibition-era Chicago, died on Saturday at the Cedar Village nursing home in Mason, Ohio. He was 95. Ba
 Antonio Cardinal Ribeiro of Lisbon, who helped maneuver the Roman Catholic Church into a pro-democracy stance after Portugal's right-wing dictatorship was overthrown in 1974, died today at Santo Antonio Hospital in suburban Lisbon. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, Portuguese ne
 Carl G. Sontheimer, a creative electronics engineer and successful entrepreneur who made his most visible contribution to the American economy -- and American kitchens -- after his retirement, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 83 and known as the man who 
 Edward V. Lipman Sr., whose career at Ocean Spray Cranberries Inc. spanned 51 years, died on March 13 at his home in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 87. Mr. Lipman retired in 1977 after 21 years as manager of southeastern operations of the marketing cooperative, which is owned by more th
 Ben Bagley, who produced several hit Off Broadway revues and a much-admired series of recordings  of obscure Broadway songs, died on Saturday at his home in Jackson Heights, Queens. He was 64. The cause was complications from emphysema, said his friend and longtime assistant, Charle
 Bernard Meltzer, the folksy foggy-voiced radio personality who built a huge following in the 20 years that he dispensed advice over WOR-AM in New York on virtually every known problem and every conceivable subject, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 81 and widely regar
 Paul Oberkotter, a former chief executive of the United Parcel Service, died on March 16 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 93. In 1925, Mr. Oberkotter began his career at U.P.S., then a fledgling package delivery outfit, as a stenographer-clerk. A native of Chadron, Neb., who mo
 David F. Powers, whose loyalty, sense of humor and contacts throughout Boston's Irish community made him a close friend and aide to John F. Kennedy and a fixture at the Kennedy White House, died today at the Symmes Medical Center in Arlington, Mass. He was 85. He died of cardiac arr
 Ferdinand Porsche, creator of the German sports car that bore his family name and son of the legendary engineer who designed the Volkswagen Beetle, died yesterday at his family's vacation home in the Austrian resort town of Zell am See. He was 88. Mr. Porsche, known as Ferry, and hi
 Arthur Stanley Link, whose prodigious 35-year effort editing the papers of Woodrow Wilson set the standard for the presentation of historical documents, died of lung cancer on Thursday at the Bermuda Village Health Center in Advance, N.C. He was 77 and widely regarded as the foremost author
 Daniel Massey, a stylish and versatile actor who performed with equal ease in plays by Shaw, Wilde and Pinter as well as in Broadway musicals and was for many years an important member of the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Royal National Theater, died on Wednesday in a London hospital. H
 Maurice Sagoff, a reformed journalist who made a late-life name for himself abbreviating great literature into terse humorous verse, died on March 18 at a hospital near his home in Acton, Mass. He was 88 and the author of ''Shrinklits: 70 of the World's Towering Classics Cut Down to Size.''
 Beverley Cross, the playwright, librettist and writer who devoted himself in equal measure to his own career and to that of the great love of his life, Dame Maggie Smith, died here on March 20. He was 66. The Times of London said he had recently been treated for a series of aneurysm
 Dean E. McHenry, an academic pioneer who turned his vision of a campus with a redwoods vista, a Pacific view and a no-fault grading system into a counterculture magnet and an educational gem, died on March 17 at a hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 87 and the founding chancellor of the U
 James Lee Hymes Jr., a national authority on early education who taught generations of parents and teachers how to raise and teach preschoolers and first graders, died on March 6 at El Camino Hospital in Cupertino, Calif. He was 84 and lived in the Cupertino retirement community of the Foru
 Edmund Asbury Gullion, one of the country's most accomplished career ambassadors and former dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, where he trained the next generation of Foreign Officers, died in his sleep the night of March 17 at his home in Winchester, Mass
 Almost a half-century ago, Joe Sobek, frustrated that he could not find an indoor racquet sport he liked, designed a new racquet, found a ball of the right size and spring, and invented racquetball. Last Friday, he died at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut at age 79. The cause was c
