 The Rev. Dmitri Dudko, a Russian Orthodox priest who spent years in prison for anti-Soviet activity but in his later years praised Stalin and grew close to nationalists who dreamed of restoring the Soviet Union, died in Moscow on Monday, the Moscow Patriarchate announced. He was 82.        
 Irvin Morton, a marketing executive who helped bring celebrity star power to corporate conventions and promotional events, died on Monday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 94. His death was announced by his company, Jack Morton Worldwide. Mr. Morton acquired the nickname Jack a
 BABB--Phillip Stiling. Died on June 12th, 2004. He was 91, and passed away after a brief illness. He was the husband of the late Winifred Tate, and the father of three children. He is survived by two of his children: Sarah Babb Sexsmith and Christopher Tate Babb and five grandchildren. His 
 CORY--David. 76, of New Rochelle, NY. Passed away peacefully June 30, 2004. Dear husband and lover to Sally A. Cory, father to Leslie and Robert Cory, Lucy Landesman Halperin, Paul and Peter Landesman. Beloved fatherin-law and grandfather. President and Founder of Tee Pee Olives Inc., Itali
 GOLDBERGER--Jerome M., DDS. After a long illness, at home surrounded by his family. Loving husband of Joan (nee Dickstein). Devoted father of Jaclyn (Scott) Schindler, Daniel (Maggie) and Andrew (Melanie). Beloved Papa of Sydney, Jonathan, Clara and Eli. A dedicated dentist for 47 years on 
 HAVENS--Dr. William Westerfield, Jr. His career in physics spanned more than half a century and included vital work developing the first atomic bomb, died Tuesday morning, June 29, 2004 of complications from leukemia at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 84 years old, and for the pas
 KAPLAN--Saul (Shelley), on June 27, 2004, at home. He was 70 years old. Beloved son of the late Nathan and Celia Kaplan. Devoted brother of Renah Meyer; loving uncle of Jonathan, Eric and David. Adoring great-uncle of Joel, Jarod, Claudia, Jordan and Evan. Funeral services will be held on F
 KETTANEH--C. Anthony. A private investor and international businessman, died of heart failure in Geneva, Switzerland on June 28, 2004 at the age of 67. He is survived by his wife Ruth, his mother Mary, his daughter Leigh and granddaughter Michele as well as his sisters Joyce Longworth and L
 MELHADO -- Christian A. Lexington Partners mourns the passing of our beloved general partner. Chris joined Lexington Partners in 1995 and helped shape the culture and success of our firm with his passionate, dignified and gracious approach to business, family, friends and the communnity. A 
 ROTHMAN -- Shelly. The trustees, members, clergy, and staff of Congregation Ezrath Israel, the Actors Temple, mourn the passing of our esteemed President Emeritus Shelly Rothman. He was much loved and will be missed.       
 THOMAS--David Ansell, former Dean of the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University, died on Monday, June 28, 2004. He was born in Holliday, Texas on July 5, 1917. He served as a Captain in the Army Air Corps on Iwo Jima in World War II. He was a CPA and received his PhD from the Un
 Stanley M. Gortikov, a music industry executive who was the longtime president of the Recording Industry Association of America, died last Thursday at his home in Los Angeles, his wife, Barbara, said. He was 85. Mr. Gortikov was president of the association for 15 years, beginning i
 Bernard Grant, a soap opera star also well known for providing the English dubbed into foreign films, died on June 30 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of lymphoma and pneumonia, said his wife, Joyce Gordon, also an ac
 BINDER--Ruby. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President       
 MARTINI--Nael, M.D. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center express their sincere sorrow at the death of their friend and colleague, Nael Martini. Dr. Martini was an extraordinary physician and teacher. He was born in Aleppo, Syria, where he 
 MELHADO -- Christian A. Lexington Partners mourns the passing of our beloved general partner. Chris joined Lexington Partners in 1995 and helped shape the culture and success of our firm with his passionate, dignified and gracious approach to business, family, friends and the communnity. A 
 RYAN--Peter M. Former executive of Chase Bank, longtime resident of Larchmont, NY, and recent resident of Palm City, FL, on June 30, 2004. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Cahill). Loving father of James and Craig. Devoted uncle of Lisa, Kristine, Catherine, Stacey, Bernadette, Jennifer, Alliso
 SIEGEL--Alan. Age 89, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of the late Lois Ringel Siegel. Cherished father of Lee Siegel (Alan Levande) and the late Mark F. Siegel. Adored grandfather of Mark and Laura Levande. Loving brother of the late Anne Sanders, and brother-in-law of Victor and Mar
 SOFFER -- Robert, 83, of Montclair, NJ, on July 1, 2004. His outstanding artistic sensibility manifested itself in every aspect of his life, including music, photography, and his love of European Culture. He was Professor of German and French at Montclair State University for 24 years. He i
 COHEN--Elias A. Although forty-nine years have passed since our beloved founder, Elias A. Cohen, passed away on July 2, 1952, he is still remembered with love and reverence by the thousands of deserving boys and girls who were privileged to come to his Tranquillity Farm and Camp for a few f
 Sir Richard May, the British judge who presided over the first two years of the war crimes trial of the former Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic, before falling ill early this year, died Thursday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 65. He suffered from a brain tumor, friends
 Marlon Brando, the rebellious prodigy who electrified a generation and forever transformed the art of screen acting but whose obstinacy and eccentricity prevented him from fully realizing the promise of his early genius, died on Thursday at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 80. The cau
 ABRAMOWITZ--Richard, 69, of Lido Beach, New York. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and friend passed away on Wednesday, July 30, 2004. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Amy and Myron Eagle and Karen and Jordan Neuman, Martin Aronin and Betsy Aronin. Adored grandfathe
 BAILEY -- Mitchell. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Mitchell Bailey. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 DeBLASIO--Michael P. The employees of Loral Space & Communications express their sorrow at the death of their beloved colleague and friend, Michael DeBlasio. In his nearly thirty years at Loral as our senior financial executive, Michael was a compelling and significant participant in the co
 FOOTE--Herbert W. W.W. II veteran. Father, artist, long time resident of Westchester County, NY and recent resident of Key West, FL. Died on June 22 of a heart attack. He is survived by his three children, Kristen, A. James and Herbert and four grandchildren. Private memorial service will h
 RYAN--Peter M. The Officers and entire staff of the H.J. Kalikow Co., LLC mourn the passing of a dear friend and associate Peter Ryan, father of James and Craig, husband of Anne. We all feel the sudden and keen sense of loss with the passing of Mr. Ryan. He will be missed. Our heartfelt con
 Peter Barnes, the sardonic English playwright best known in this country for his play and film ''The Ruling Class,'' died on Thursday at a London hospital. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said his agent, Jodi Shields. Mr. Barnes, who also worked as a television producer and
 C.J. Hart, who had the idea of charging hot rodders a buck and spectators 50 cents -- a quarter more if they wanted to watch mechanics work -- thereby spawning the United States' first commercial drag strip, died on June 25 at the home of his son Gerald in Placentia, Calif. He was 93.      
 ABRAMOWITZ--Richard, 69, of Lido Beach, New York. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and friend passed away on Wednesday, July 30, 2004. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Amy and Myron Eagle and Karen and Jordan Neuman, Martin Aronin and Betsy Aronin. Adored grandfathe
 BASILE -- Francis Xavier. Died of cancer July 1 at home in Sarasota, FL, with family close at hand. Born in the Bronx to Paul and Florence Basile. Married to Gloria Cuzzocrea for 47 years. Longtime resident of Pelham Manor, NY. A leading figure in commercial finance, he was chairman and CEO
 CORY--David. 76, of New Rochelle, NY. Passed away peacefully June 30, 2004. Dear husband and lover to Sally A. Cory, father to Leslie and Robert Cory, Lucy Landesman Halperin, Paul and Peter Landesman, brother to Ellen Epstein Cory. Beloved fatherin-law, grandfather and uncle. President and
 DEBLASIO--Michael Peter of Rye, NY and North Palm Beach, FL died of colon cancer on Wednesday, June 30th, 2004 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in NY. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on January 13, 1937. Michael was the former Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of the Loral C
 FELDMAN -- Frederick. Of Boca Raton, FL, died on July 2, 2004. Beloved husband of Mitzi and the late Estelle. Adored father of Dean and Rod (Sharon) Feldman and step-father of Marsha (Mark) Harris and Jeannie Armstrong. Cherished grandfather of Jared, Brent, Reed, and Coby Feldman. Beloved 
 FOOTE--Herbert W. W.W. II veteran. Father, artist, long time resident of Westchester County, NY and recent resident of Key West, FL. Died on June 22 of a heart attack. He is survived by his three children, Kristen, A. James and Herbert and four grandchildren. Private memorial service will h
 FRUMKIN--Arnold ''Arnie.'' Deputy Mayor of Airmont, NY, and retired owner of Universal Printing, Brooklyn, NY, on July 3, 2004. Survivors include devoted wife of four years, Emily Ramos-Frumkin, loving children, Andrea and Anthony Frumkin, and step-daughter Laura Grappo. Predeceased by his 
 KNAPP -- George W. Of Schenectady, beloved by family, colleagues, and community, died at 90. An honored alumnus of RPI, he headed GE's Department of Industry Sales and Engineering Operations. He is survived by two daughters, Barbara Herz and Martha Baum, several grandchildren and great-gran
 RYAN--Peter M. Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, Inc., Officers and Directors express their sincerest condolences to the family and friends of Peter M. Ryan. Peter was a dedicated director of the Company since its inception in 1995. His financial acumen and business insights will be sorely m
 SIEGEL--Alan. Age 89, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of the late Lois Ringel Siegel. Cherished father of Lee Siegel (Alan Levande) and the late Mark F. Siegel. Adored grandfather of Mark and Laura Levande. Loving brother of the late Anne Sanders, and brother-in-law of Victor and Mar
 SLOAN--Jacob, 86, died June 25, 2004, Venice, FL. He was a writer, poet, editor, translator of Yiddish-Notes from the Warsaw Ghetto, Satan in Goray. 20 years USIS & Foreign Service. Survived by wife Anne of Venice, daughter Judith Sloan and grandson of Hendersonville, NC.       
 STEG--Dr. Leo. Age 82, father, grandfather, brother, renowned scientist and engineer, died peacefully on Thursday, July 1, 2004. Leo was predeceased by beloved wife of over 54 years, Doreen. Leo was born in Austria, and after escaping from the Nazis in a kindertransport, he came to New York
 STEIN--Philip G., 62, of Pennington, NJ, June 24th. Measurement scientist, educator and mentor. Survived by his wife, Carole Armel Stein, six children and five grandchildren, and his sister, Eleanor Stein. A celebration of his life will be held at St. Matthew's Church, Pennington, NJ on Jul
 WEST--Philip. Oboist; arranger; Professor Emeritus, Eastman School of Music; and artist/faculty, Aspen Music Festival. Died peacefully June 26th after a long illness. Survived by his beloved wife, violinist Carole Cowan; and, from his marriage to the late mezzo-soprano Jan DeGaetani, by dau
 Dr. Howard A. Frank, a surgeon and clinical professor at Harvard Medical School who helped develop the cardiac pacemaker, died June 27 at his home in Brookline, Mass., his family announced. He was 89. Dr. Frank was a colleague of Dr. Paul M. Zoll, a cardiologist who first conceived 
 BASILE -- Francis Xavier. Died of cancer July 1 at home in Sarasota, FL, with family close at hand. Born in the Bronx to Paul and Florence Basile. Married to Gloria Cuzzocrea for 47 years. Longtime resident of Pelham Manor, NY. A leading figure in commercial finance, he was chairman and CEO
 DeBLASIO--Michael P. The employees of Loral Space & Communications express their sorrow at the death of their beloved colleague and friend, Michael DeBlasio. In his nearly thirty years at Loral as our senior financial executive, Michael was a compelling and significant participant in the co
 FERON--James. After four decades as a reporter and foreign correspondent with The New York Times and 20 years with Parkinson's Disease, Jim died June 19, 2004, at Hillcrest Commons in Pittsfield, MA. His family and friends will celebrate his joy in a lifelong dedication to journalism from 2
 FEY--Eugene C. Retired CEO of Pinkerton's, Inc, and Treasurer of the Pinkerton Foundation, on July 3, 2004, after a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of April Fey and loving father of Nancy Morris and Richard Fey. Stepfather of Evan and Eric John, and Megyn Lansing. Grandfather of Jena, Ev
 KASS--Daniel H. On July 3rd in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved father of James (Susan) and Elizabeth Mohler (Jim). Proud grandfather of Thomas, Kate and Brett. Devoted friend and brother of the late Theodore (Jane) and William (Joanne). Caring uncle to Henry, Kathy, Tom and Deborah. Very dearl
 LANE--William Hustace Jr. 96, died July 3, 2004, in Mt. Pleasant, SC. For information, contact J. Henry Stuhr, Inc., Mount Pleasant Chapel. The former Comptroller of Columbia University is predeceased by his wife Elizabeth Nesbitt Lane, his parents, William H. and Josephine Bassett Lane, an
 LAZARUS--Herbert. July 1, 2004. Father of Michael Lazarus (Jo Whitsell), Janet Lazarus and Norman Lazarus. Relatives and friends are invited to memorial services Tuesday, 2:30 pm, at the Alleva Funeral Home, 1724 East Lancaster Ave, Paoli, PA. Contributions in his memory may be made to the 
 QUINN--John McAdam. On June 24, 2004. Beloved son of Alice M. (nee McAdam) and the late John J. Also survived by his sisters Ruth and Alice Scott Quinn. Visitation Tuesday July 6 2-5 and 7-9PM at McLaughlin Funeral Home, Third Avenue at 97 St, Brooklyn. Mass of Christian Burial Wednesday, J
 ROTHENBERG--William H. Of Riverdale, NY on July 3, 2004, at the age of 85. Adored husband of Corinne. Beloved father of Ronald and Mace and father-in-law of Katherine and Joyce. Cherished grandfather of Stephanie and Bryce, and dear brother of Ernie. Bill's warmth, friendly smile and beauti
 SCHWARTZ--Max. On Saturday, July 3, 2004. Retired coowner of Artshire Coats and owner of Hanson Liquors. Beloved husband of the late Doris Schwartz (nee Goldsand). Devoted father of Susan (Barry) Jacobs and Barbara (Jeffrey) Layne. Devoted brother of seven deceased siblings. Adored grandfat
 SHAW--Jacqueline E. (nee Michaels). Died July 3, 2004, after a long illness. Beloved wife of William Shaw, devoted mother of Deborah Shaw (Neil Sevy) and Linda Shaw (Bruce Goodman). Dear sister of Jean Weintraub and loving grandmother of Alexandria, Elizabeth, Jenny Sue, Charlotte, William,
 SINAGRA--Attilio G. 87, wellknown artist, died Tuesday, June 29, 2004, in the Atlantic City Medical Center. Mr. Sinagra attended the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, NY, where he majored in illustration. He also studied under the eminent illustrator, Harvey Dunn. Mr. Sinagra continued his assoc
 STEG--Dr. Leo. Age 82, father, grandfather, brother, renowned scientist and engineer, died peacefully on Thursday, July 1, 2004. Leo was predeceased by beloved wife of over 54 years, Doreen. Leo was born in Austria, and after escaping from the Nazis in a kindertransport, he came to New York
 STOVIN--James J. On July 2, 2004. Beloved husband of Janet. Loving father, adored grandfather, dear brother. We love you and miss you. Service Tuesday, 11:30 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. STOVIN--Dr. James. Central Synagogue Sisterhood is saddened by the death
 Alexander Yakob Lerner, a star of Soviet Russian cybernetics and patriarch of the Jewish ''refusenik'' colony in Moscow, died April 6 in Rehovot, Israel, where he had settled after finally being allowed to leave Russia in 1988. He was 90. The New York Times received word of his deat
 Joseph Wasserman, an architect active in community planning and affordable housing, both urban and rural, died on June 25 at his home in Stockbridge, Mass. He was 73. His death was announced by the Finnerty & Stevens Funeral Home, which said the cause was a cancer diagnosed two year
 BLISS--Milton. Peacefully, at home in New Rochelle at the age of 86 on July 4, 2004. Loving husband of Marjorie, father of Michael, Richard, Ronald, and Susan. Grandfather of Matthew, Alexander, Andrew, Ryan, Alan, Brennen and Mara. Brother of Benjamin Bliss and Sonia Grossman. A member of 
 FEY--Eugene C. Retired C.E.O. of Pinkerton's, Inc. and Treasurer of the Pinkerton Foundation, on July 3, 2004. Husband of April Fey. Father of Nancy Morris and Richard Fey. Stepfather of Evan and Eric John and Megyn Lansing. Grandfather of eight. His first wife Dolores Fey died previously. 
 GUTERMAN--Frederick H., 83, of NYC, June 28. Quietly passed away after a long struggle with Parkinson's disease. Mr. Guterman served as a VP for Allen B. Dumont Labs, President of ITT, Vice President of Arma and President of Horn & Hardart. He is preceded in death by his parents, Ruth ''Chi
 KASS--Daniel H. On July 3rd in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved father of James (Susan) and Elizabeth Mohler (Jim). Proud grandfather of Thomas, Kate and Brett. Devoted friend and brother of the late Theodore (Jane) and William (Joanne). Caring uncle to Henry, Kathy, Tom and Deborah. Very dearl
 PHILLIPS--Robert M., retired from the New York City School System, 94, of Lenox, MA, died on July 3, 2004. He formerly lived in Mt. Vernon, NY. In his unique way he was a ''man of all seasons.'' Devoted husband of Anne Phillips. Beloved father to Deborah Phillips of Great Barrington and Car
 ANDREWS--Charles E. The National Board of Review of Motion Pictures Board of Directors and the Screening Group mourn the loss of Charles E. Andrews, devoted husband of Amy Greene-Andrews. He was a true film buff and loyal Screening Group member for many years. He will be greatly missed by t
 ARON--Jerome. Died July 5, 2004. Husband of Elizabeth J. McCormack. Father of Peter, Nan, Mark, Betsy and John. Grandfather of Phoebe and Sophie; Nicholas, Emma and Elena; Gabriel and Samuel. Gifts in lieu of flowers to Marlboro College, Marlboro, VT. 05344-0300. ARON--Jerome. Jerry
 CORY--David. From his family, Ellen Cory Epstein, Amy Epstein, Daniel A. Epstein, and Daria Keynan Epstein, Rachel Epstein Kogan and Gary Kogan.       
 DeBLASIO -- Michael. St. Francis College of Brooklyn mourns the loss of Michael DeBlasio, a graduate of the class of 1958, a beloved Trustee, and a major benefactor. Michael will be remembered for his true Franciscan spirit demonstrated by his generosity in helping young people who would no
 FITCH--George Hopper. Born 1909, died at the age of 94 on June 16th, 2004 in San Francisco, CA. Son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Winchester Fitch, and a 50-year resident of NYC, most recently of San Francisco. Beloved husband of Denise Fitch (LawsonJohnston), stepfather of Edward de Coppet, son
 HUFFARD--Wick Battin, 19, died on June 30th, 2004 from injuries sustained in a single car accident on June 21st. Wick is the son of Deborah Huffard and the late Phillip Huffard. He is survived by his brothers, Tate, Gray, Flip and Trevor, and sisters, Whitney and Courtney. Also surviving Wi
 KASS--Daniel H. On July 3rd in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved father of James (Susan) and Elizabeth Mohler (Jim). Proud grandfather of Thomas, Kate and Brett. Devoted friend and brother of the late Theodore (Jane) and William (Joanne). Caring uncle to Henry, Kathy, Tom and Deborah. Very dearl
 MACOMBER--Harley F. Of Centerport on June 30, 2004 in his 75th year, (President and Publisher of Hutton Publishing of Jericho), loving husband of Mary Jane, devoted father of Gordon T. and Greg, beloved grandfather of Brittney Leigh, Stephanie Jean, David Smith and Ashley Elizabeth, fond br
 MURPHY--Andrew T., 83, originally of Chicago, but a longtime New Yorker, died Thursday, July 1. Beloved uncle of Sharon (Lloyd) Nelson, great uncle of Gail (Paul) Claytor, Craig (Kathy) Nelson, Jeffrey (Dina) Nelson and greatgreat uncle of five. Andy was an actor, a member of the Screen Act
 NORMAN--Dr. Alex, 80, died peacefully in his sleep on July 5, 2004. Beloved husband for 57 years of Muriel. Loving father of Beth (Ray), Richard (Naomi) and David (Karen). Adoring grandfather of Rebecca, Daniel, Anna, Jane and Julia. Over a 50-year career, he was Chairman of Radiology at Ho
 RADOM--Matthew. Died July 2 at his home in Norwalk, CT. He is survived by his wife Marjorie (Roth), children Stephan Chodorov and Ginger Montel, grandsons Pip Chodorov and Max-Joseph Montel, and family and friends all over the world. There will be a memorial later this summer.       
 ROCKOWER--Leonard W., Psychologist. Died July 5, 2004, age 91. Beloved husband of Rosemarie, father of Stephanie, and Andrea, dear brother and uncle. He will be missed forever and a day.       
 SHIRIAN--Said. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr., Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 WEISER -- Gary Allan of Lighthouse Point, Florida, died July 5, 2004. He was the beloved son of Muriel and Joel Weiser. Dear brother of Gertrude & Bernard. Loving uncle of Sheri, Cindy, David and Laurie and granduncle of Lauren and Rachel. Services in New York.       
 Rodger Ward, a two-time winner of the Indianapolis 500 and one of auto racing's most prominent figures of the late 1950's and 60's, died Monday at a hospice in Anaheim, Calif. He was 83. His death was announced by the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, which said he had been in failing he
 Thomas F. Mancuso, a pioneering epidemiologist at the center of a bitter dispute with the federal government over the possible long-term effects of small doses of radiation on nuclear bomb workers, died Sunday at an assisted-living center in Oakland, Calif. He was 92 and had esophageal canc
 Carl A. Totemeier Jr., a horticulturalist who helped reclaim the New York Botanical Garden from neglect in the mid-1980's and led efforts to restore other public gardens around the country, died on Saturday. He was 77. His wife of 53 years, Jean Totemeier, said he died at a hospital
 Charles E. Andrews, a writer at the dawn of television who helped create an informal, intimate approach to programming for Dave Garroway, Studs Terkel and other early stars, died on Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was acute pancreatitis, 
 John Cullen Murphy, the artist and illustrator who continued the Arthurian saga ''Prince Valiant'' in the Sunday comics for the last 34 years, died on Friday in Greenwich, Conn., his family announced. He was 85. Noted as much for its detailed backgrounds and costumes as for its well
 ARON--Jerome. The Juilliard community mourns the passing of Jerome Aron, beloved husband of Juilliard's Vice Chairman, Elizabeth McCormack. With intelligence, wit and deep compassion for all Jerry addressed, he touched us in very profound ways. We express our deepest condolences to Elizabet
 FLYNN--John Francis. Born on April 4, 1930, Jack died on June 30, 2004 in Manhattan. His exuberant good nature will be greatly missed by his many friends.       
 ISLER--Dr. Stanley M., of Stratham, NH, died July 4, 2004. A longtime resident of Westport, CT, until his retirement from the New York City School District 5 where he was a psychologist. Dr. Isler is survived by his daughter, Jenny of Stratham, NH; son, Loren, and grandchildren, Russell and
 KAMIEN--Herbert C., after a long illness. Mr. Kamien was a retired New York State Court of Claims employee. Previously he was the owner of Kamien's Tavern on Lincoln Road in Brooklyn, New York. Mr. Kamien was a decorated World War II veteran who saw extensive combat in Normandy, Northern Fr
 KESSLER--Louis B. Founder and President of the New York Reptile Co, Inc., a ladies handbag manufacturing company and resident of 150 East 61 St., NYC, died in NYC on July 5, 2004. Funeral services will be held Thursday, July 8, 2004 at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel located at 630 Amsterdam 
 LEOPOLD--Edward Philip, born May 15, 1913, died peacefully July 5, 2004. Beloved husband of Margaret. Devoted father of Jackie (Norman), Leslie (Arthur), and Paul (Karen). Adored grandfather of Jonathan, Karen, Stacy and Erica. Poppy instinctively knew how to fix, mend, and solve everything
 LEVINE--Howard R., on July 6th. Devoted father, passionate lawyer, lifelong New Yorker, he is survived by sons Scott of NY and Todd of Fridley, MN, as well as former wife DeLane, also of MN, and brother Robert of Titusville, FL. He was a proud alumnus of Horace Mann '51, University of Penns
 NORMAN--Dr. Alex. The Board of Trustees and the Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute record with deep sorrow the passing of one of our world-renowned physicians. As a former Chairman of the HJD Department of Radiology, founder of the International Skeletal 
 RAMSAY--Frank. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Frank Ramsay, beloved brother of our dear friend and colleague, Carl Ramsay, M.D., Director of Beth Israel Kings Highway Division's Emergency Department (KHD). To Carl, his family and
 WOLFE--Brian, suddenly on July 5th, 2004 at age 29. Born in Yonkers October 10, 1974 to William and Patricia (nee McDermott) Wolfe. He was former sales manager of Pace BMW and currently a Futures Trader. Brian was an avid sailor and motorcycle enthusiast. Survived by his father William Wolf
 Stewart Richardson, a former top editor at Doubleday and other publishing houses, died yesterday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a lung infection, said his wife, Sally Richardson. Mr. Richardson was the executive editor and later e
 Hugh Barnett Cave, an English-born American writer who started turning out pulp fiction at 18 and kept it up for 75 years, died on June 27 at a hospice in Vero Beach, Fla., which he had entered a week earlier. He was 93 and lived in Sebastian, Fla. His death was announced by Milt Th
 BECKER--Frederick G., 90, of Amherst, MA, June 30th. Renowned print maker/artist. Prof. Emeritus University of Massachusetts, Amherst; Former Prof. Washington University, St. Louis. Active in the W.P.A. Federal Art Project, SW Hayter's Atelier 17. Predeceased by his beloved wife Jean Morris
 FLYNN--John Francis. Born on April 4, 1930, Jack died on June 30, 2004 in Manhattan. His exuberant good nature will be greatly missed by his many friends.       
 MADIGAN--Thomas F., May 4, 1919-July 8, 2004. Died in New York after a brief illness. Loving husband of Susan (nee Eschauzier); beloved father of their daughter, Alix (David Yorkin), and children from his previous marriage, Anthony, Sheila Kaelon, Nicholas (Lauren), and Kevin (Priscilla), a
 NORMAN--Alex. The New York Roentgen Society mourns the death of Dr. Alex Norman. He was a longstanding member of the NYRS, President between 1984-1985, and recipient of the NYRS Distinguished Radiologist award. He was an internationally known radiologist, scientific author and mentor to gen
 REESE--Charles Edward, 64, of NYC, NY died on July 6, 2004. His untimely passing is mourned by his devoted wife Judith, and children Charles, Brandon and Andthyia. He will be missed. Family will receive friends Sunday 2-5 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St. Funeral servi
 SCHNECK--Sidney H. Of Chappaqua, NY, died July 7, from Parkinson's disease. Survived by his three children and their spouses, Susan and Charles Sawyers, Karen and John Reilly, and Allison and Robert Schneck; along with his five grandchildren and sister. Predeceased by his wife, Sally Dene R
 Al Gavin, one of boxing's best-known cut men, who spent four decades specializing in the art of stemming the blood flow that could keep a fighter from answering the bell, died Thursday at Winthrop Hospital in Mineola, N.Y. Gavin, who lived in Bethpage, N.Y., was 70. The cause was co
 ISEMAN--Donald Baruch, on July 8, 2004 peacefully at his home in Westhampton Beach. Beloved husband of Betty Ann Crawley Iseman, father of David H. Iseman (Laureen) of Mashpee, MA and James E. Iseman of NYC, adored grandfather of Alexandra. Predeceased by his brother, Harold M. Iseman, who 
 MCAULEY -- Peter, Boston and Malahide, Ireland, on July 8, 2004, peacefully at home in the loving care of his family. Deeply loved and sadly missed by his loving wife Nuala, sons Desmond, Peter and Sean, adoring daughter Siobhain, son-in-law James, daughter - in - law Gretchen, Mary and gra
 SEIDEN--Art. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Art Seiden, and send condolences to his family.       
 SHELTON--Marvin L. on July 7, 2004 at home of multiple myeloma. He was born in Pittsburgh, PA., July 25, 1931 and raised in Wilmington, NC. He practiced orthopedic surgery at the New York Presbyterian Hospital and served as the director of Orthopedics at Harlem Hospital Center. He is surviv
 THYPIN -- David. Passed away in his sleep on the morning of Friday, July 9. Beloved brother of Gertrude Oltchick. Loving father of Marilyn Thypin, Elaine Lederer, and Richard Thypin and father-in-law of Victor Lederer and Nancy Bermeo. Wonderful grandfather to Paul Lederer, Karen Lederer, B
 R.W. Burchfield, an internationally renowned lexicographer who wrestled the Victorian behemoth known as the Oxford English Dictionary into the era of ''wimmin,'' ''sexploitation'' and ''microwave oven,'' died on Monday at Abingdon Community Hospital in Abingdon, England. He was 81. 
 William K. McClure, the first European producer for ''60 Minutes'' and the producer of some of its Emmy Award-winning segments, died on July 2 on the island of Sardinia, where he had a summer home. He was 81 and lived in London. His death was announced by CBS News, where he worked f
 Oved Shifriss, a plant breeder and geneticist whose development of hybrid vegetables in the 1940's, particularly for W. Atlee Burpee & Company, helped ignite the national boom in hobby gardening, died June 25 in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, hi
 AUSTIN--Richard of Short Hills died on June 26 at age 78 of mesothelioma. After serving in the Navy during WW II he received an MBA from Rutgers. He retired from a 38 year career with the Celanese Corporation as VicePresident and Controller of Celanese International. During retirement he se
 CLOSE--David Palmer, 89, lawyer and Director Emeritus of the International Eye Foundation, died on July 4, 2004 at his home in Rappahannock County, VA. Mr. Close was born in New York, N.Y. on March 16, 1915. Graduated The Hill School in 1934; Williams College in 1938; and Columbia School of
 COLT--Harris Strickland, 69. Authority on military history books and proprietor of The Military Bookman Ltd. in Manhattan, died June 25, 2004 in New York City. In 1976 he, with his wife Margaretta, opened The Military Bookman, a specialty bookstore with an international clientele. The busin
 DICKERMAN -- Watson B. The Trustees and staff of the Kathmandu Valley Preservation Trust mourn the passing of our co-Founder, Watson B. Dickerman. Dicky's vision created our organization. His support made the Trust the leading private organization preserving the irreplaceable monuments of t
 DORF -- Charles B. The trustees and faculty of Poly Prep Country Day School mourn the passing of Charles B. Dorf, beloved alumnus of the class of 1948 and trustee emeritus. Mr. Dorf served as a Poly Prep trustee from 1982 to 1998. He was also the recipient of a 2003 Distinguished Achievemen
 FOGARTY--Richard R. A longtime resident of Darien, CT, died Friday, July 9, 2004, at Stamford Hospital. He died of cancer, according to his family. Born March 15, 1938, in Cambridge, MA, he was the son of the late Edward F. and Mildred M. Fogarty. He was a graduate of Melrose, MA, High Scho
 ISEMAN--Donald Baruch, on July 8, 2004 peacefully at his home in Westhampton Beach. Beloved husband of Betty Ann Crawley Iseman, father of David H. Iseman (Laureen) of Mashpee, MA and James E. Iseman of NYC, adored grandfather of Alexandra. Predeceased by his brother, Harold M. Iseman, who 
 MCAULEY -- Peter, Boston and Malahide, Ireland, on July 8, 2004, peacefully at home in the loving care of his family. Deeply loved and sadly missed by his loving wife Nuala, sons Desmond, Peter and Sean, adoring daughter Siobhain, son-in-law James, daughter - in - law Gretchen, Mary and gra
 MEDVECKY--Zoltan, on July 9, 2004, of Pound Ridge, NY. Beloved husband of Pat Medvecky. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. A memorial visitation will be held on Tuesday, July 13, in the Clark Associates Funeral Home, 4 Woods Bridge Road, Katonah, New York from 24PM. For those who wis
 MILLER--James ''Jimmy'' F. Was many things in life: stockbroker, Fortune 500 CEO, financier, philanthropist, insatiable reader, conversationalist and a devotee of fine arts of all descriptions...a true Renaissance man. Mr. Miller died June 3, 2004 in Portland, OR at the age of 99. Born in 1
 RANDLE--Bill. 81, radio deejay, talk show host, lawyer, and college professor, died Friday in Cleveland, OH. Credited with discovering Elvis Presley. Introduced Elvis on ''Stage Show'' on CBS in January, 1956, Elvis's first national TV appearance. Deejay and interviewer at WCBS Radio in New
 REESE--Charles Edward, 64, of NYC, NY died on July 6, 2004. His untimely passing is mourned by his devoted wife Judith, and children Charles, Brandon and Andthyia. He will be missed. Family will receive friends Sunday 2-5 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St. Funeral servi
 RICHEY--John Meade, 83, of Vero Beach, FL, and East Hampton, NY, passed away peacefully at home in Florida on July 6, 2004. Mr. Richey was born in New York City in 1920, and grew up there and in Stamford, CT. He graduated from Westminster School in Simsbury, CT, and attended Trinity College
 ROSS--Harold. Died July 7, 2004, in Poughkeepsie, NY, at the age of 81. Born in Rochelle, IL, August 5, 1922, son of Harold and Dorothy Davis Ross. Worked for IBM in Poughkeepsie and Kingston, NY, as a manager of the Engineering and Data Systems Development. He earned numerous scientific aw
 SHELTON--Marvin L., M.D. On July 7, 2004, at home of multiple myeloma. He was born in Pittsburgh, PA, July 25, 1931, and raised in Wilmington, NC. He practiced orthopedic surgery at the New York Presbyterian Hospital and served as the director of Orthopedics at Harlem Hospital Center. He is
 THYPIN -- David. Passed away in his sleep on the morning of Friday, July 9. Beloved brother of Gertrude Oltchick. Loving father of Marilyn Thypin, Elaine Lederer, and Richard Thypin and father-in-law of Victor Lederer and Nancy Bermeo. Wonderful grandfather to Paul Lederer, Karen Lederer, B
 Fred Becker, a well-known artist and printmaker who taught in the fine arts department at the University of Massachusetts from 1968 until his retirement in 1986, died on June 30 at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 90. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his daughter, Carla.      
 Laurance S. Rockefeller, the middle brother of the five prominent and philanthropic grandsons of John D. Rockefeller, who concentrated his own particular generosity on conservation, recreation, ecological concerns and medical research, particularly the treatment of cancer, died yesterday at
 ATLAS--Howard T. NABETCWA and its membership mourn the passing of Howard T. Atlas on July 8, 2004. Howie's long years of dedicated service in a number of leadership positions in our Union improved the working lives of our members and served as an inspiration to all of us. He will be missed.
 BENASULI--Alan. Of NYC and Shelter Island, NY, on July 10, 2004, peacefully, at his home on Shelter Island where he was a summer resident for the last 35 years. He was born on May 22, 1940, in Tangiers, Morocco. He is survived by his beloved wife Nancy Cooley, and their son James, as well a
 FOGARTY--Richard R. Dearly loved longtime Board member of Odyssey House and Odyssey Foundation, Rich will be deeply missed for his kindness, humility, and friendship. Rich was an unfailing supporter and champion of the men, women, and children in treatment for substance abuse and mental ill
 GAL--Susanne (Suzy). 81 years, of New York City; peacefully at home on July 8, 2004. Beloved wife of Andreas Gal, loving mother of Julie and the late Peter, adored grandmother of Mati and Talia and loving mother-in-law of Henry Kalter. The funeral was held in Tel Aviv, Israel. GAL--
 GOTTLIEB -- Justine. With heartfelt sympathy on the passing of Justine Gottlieb, beloved mother of my devoted son-in-law Ira ''Buddy'' Gottlieb, his loving wife Marcy and the entire family. Teddi Winograd       
 RANDLE--Bill. 81, radio deejay, talk show host, lawyer, and college professor, died Friday in Cleveland, OH. Credited with discovering Elvis Presley. Introduced Elvis on ''Stage Show'' on CBS in January, 1956, Elvis's first national TV appearance. Deejay and interviewer at WCBS Radio in New
 RICHEY--John Meade, 83, of Vero Beach, FL, and East Hampton, NY, passed away peacefully at home in Florida on July 6, 2004. Mr. Richey was born in New York City in 1920, and grew up there and in Stamford, CT. He graduated from Westminster School in Simsbury, CT, and attended Trinity College
 WAGER--Walter H. Died on July 11. Survived by his loving wife Winifred, daughter Lisa (Bob Liff), and granddaughters Eleni and Clara. Services Tuesday, at 11 am, ''The Riverside.''       
 William H. Avery, an aeronautics researcher whose work led to new ways to propel missiles and aircraft and who helped develop a method of generating energy from the ocean, died June 26 at a retirement home in West Yarmouth, Mass. He was 91. The cause was congestive heart failure, sa
 CAMPAZZI--Earl James, Sr., 82. Of Boca Raton, FL. Died at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN, from leukemia on July 11, 2004. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Betty (nee Carlson), and his son, Earl Jr., M.D., both of Boca Raton, FL. Mr. Campazzi joined the New York City Police Force on
 FREEMAN--David F. The Board and staff of the Scherman Foundation are deeply saddened by the passing on July 4th of our dear friend and former executive director. David's intellect, vision, and commitment to peace, social justice, and a sound environment contributed to the well-being of hund
 GLASGOW--Irving H., attorney, 79, died on July 5th, 2004, of lung cancer, at his home in Brooklyn, NY. Irving had been an outpatient at SloanKettering Cancer Center at the time of his death. Irving was born September 28th, 1924 in NYC, the ninth child of Angelin and Matthew Glasgow. Irving'
 HUMMEL--Roland R. Survived by his wife, Ruth and children Gordon, Geraldine, Barbara and Alexander and seven grandchildren. Children, Janet and Howard predeceased him.       
 KIND--Philip, on July 10, 2004 at his home in Huntingdon Valley, PA. Husband of Patricia (nee van Ameringen); father of Kenneth A. Kind, Laura K. McKenna, Christina A. Baiocchi, Valerie Kind-Rubin and Andrew Kindfuller; also survived by 19 grandchildren. Services to be held on Wednesday, Ju
 LANSKY--Edward. Died on July 12. Loving husband, father and grandfather. Survived by his wife, Rhoda Sorkin Lansky, son David, daughter and son-in-law Mira and John Boland and grandson John Isaac Boland. Services will be held Wednesday, 1 PM, at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91st Stree
 McKOWN--Frank B. Jr., (Sandy) died July 10, 2004 at home in Vero Beach, FL; formerly of Bedford, NY, and Fisher's Island, NY. He was 71. Husband of Nancy Bird McKown; father of Kathryn McKown Perry and Alice Bird McKown; grandfather of two. Also survived by sister Martha McKown Spofford of 
 NAHON--Jack. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted member, Jack Nahon, devoted husband of the beloved, late Esther Nahon. Our deepest sympathy is extended to all his dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President       
 ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note with great sorrow the death of Laurance S. Rockefeller. Fifty-seven years ago, in 1947, Mr. Rockefeller joined the Boards of Managers of Memorial Hospital for Cancer 
 RUDERFER -- Leonard, on July 11, 2004. Beloved husband of the late ''Jayde.'' Adored father of Mindy & Edgar, Dean and Diane. Cherished grandfather of Jordan, Cory, David and Douglas. Devoted brother of Phyllis Schiller and the late Gladys Polinger. Universally loved by all. Services on Tue
 STEINHAUSER -- Bernard. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Bernard Steinhauser. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 STOLIAR--Evan Arthur. Beloved son of Joan and Arthur, loving brother of Lee Dufresne and brother-in-law Leonard, adoring uncle of Abby and trusted friend of many. Skillful webmaster and award winning website designer, lighting technician and stagehand for numerous offBroadway events, member
 UNGER--Arthur, 80, of New York City, suddenly in Paris, France on July 9, 2004. Longtime movie and TV critic for the Christian Science Monitor, publisher of Datebook and Beatles Magazines, and distinguished alumnus of the University of Missouri School of Journalism, where his collection of 
 WAGER--Walter H. Author, raconteur, father and grandfather. Columbia B.A., Harvard J.D., Northwestern L.L.M., Fulbright fellow at Sorbonne, aviation advisor to Israeli government, U.N. editor, wrote for Edward R. Murrow, ''Playbill'' editor-in-chief, Press Chief at ASCAP, Juilliard, U. Brid
 WILSON--John Donald. Of Bronxville, NY, died June 30th at the age of 91 from Parkinsons Disease. He worked at The Chase Manhattan Bank as Chief Economist and after his retirement, wrote ''The Chase,'' the history of The Chase Manhattan Bank 1945 to 1985. He was married to Danesi Matthews Hi
 Albert V. Casey, who guided American Airlines through turmoil in the 1970's and 80's and later took on the task of managing the country's failed savings and loans institutions, died on Saturday at his home in Dallas. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, said a close friend, Denn
 Joe Gold, whose beachfront ''Mecca of bodybuilding'' in California led to a worldwide net of health-and-fitness muscle gyms, with Arnold Schwarzenegger among its prize clients, died Sunday in Marina Del Rey, in suburban Los Angeles. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure,
 ARNOLD--Barry. Passed on July 12 2004, peacefully at his home at age 56 in the loving care of his family. He was deeply loved and will be sadly missed by his loving wife of 34 years, Sandy, children Leslie and Michael, son-in-law Michael Sobel, parents Rhoda and Sol Arnold, sister Susan Kel
 BAKER--Alan Griffin, of New Canaan, CT, died on July 12, 2004 at age 79. Mr. Baker was born in New York City and received his BA and MA from Columbia University. He is survived by his wife, Diana Harbage Baker, of 52 years, and sons Edward and Alfred, and daughters Jane Pasquini and Elizabe
 COHEN--Harris. Of Great Neck, NY, died on the morning of July 13, 2004 at the age of 85. After proudly serving his country in World War II, he began a long and successful career as businessman, CPA, and treasurer. He was a self-made man who attributed his success to hard work, unshakable in
 DEERMOUNT--John, 89, died at New York Hospital on July 13, 2004. Mr. Deermount was retired as owner/president of the Blue Print Company in NYC. He leaves behind a wife, Dorothy Virginia, a son John, Jr. and five grandchildren, Cory C. Deermount, Kathleen Muzyl, John A. Deermount, Michael I.
 EISENBERG -- Richard P., died on July 12 of gastric cancer at the age of 60. He was the most beloved husband of Ruth, adored father of Erika and Jessica, and father-in-law of Ben, ''uncle-fun Richie'' to all of his nieces and nephews, cherished brother-in-law of Josh, Brooks, Marilyn, Ralph
 GLASGOW--Irving H., attorney, 79, died on July 5th, 2004, of lung cancer, at his home in Brooklyn, NY. Irving had been an outpatient at SloanKettering Cancer Center at the time of his death. Irving was born September 28th, 1924 in NYC, the ninth child of Angelin and Matthew Glasgow. Irving'
 LANDAU--Jean-Claude. The remaining officers and scientists of Atlantic Dyestuff Corporation and American Dyestuff Corporation note with sorrow the passing of their colleague. Jean-Claude left our industry more than a half century ago. Jean-Claude came to us after MIT and after graduate work
 LANSKY--Edward. Died on July 12. Loving husband, father and grandfather. Survived by his wife, Rhoda Sorkin Lansky, son David, daughter and son-in-law Mira and John Boland and grandson John Isaac Boland. Services will be held Wednesday, 1 PM, at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91st Stree
 MARVEL--Elliot. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Elliot Marvel. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jerold L. Zaro, President Harvey L. York, Secretary       
 McKOWN--Frank B. Jr., (Sandy) died July 10, 2004 at home in Vero Beach, FL; formerly of Bedford, NY, and Fisher's Island, NY. He was 71. Husband of Nancy Bird McKown; father of Kathryn McKown Perry and Alice Bird McKown; grandfather of two. Also survived by sister Martha McKown Spofford of 
 PLISHKA--Judith Ann. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Judy Plishka, wife of our dear colleague, Paul Plishka. Judy was a warm and loving presence in our midst for many years, and we offer our sincerest condolences to Paul and all his family. Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Lev
 ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Boards, Physicians, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and benefactor Laurance Rockefeller. As a passionate conservationist, investor, and philanthropist, 
 ROSENGARTEN--Alan Bill ''Billy''. On July 10, 2004. Beloved son of Lois Rosengarten Gurvitch and the late Harold G. Rosengarten. Brother and brother-in-law of Ronnie (Rosengarten) and Arthur German; Loraine and Edward Rosengarten, Alison and Jeff Rosengarten. 25 years of talent and creativi
 STACKPOLE -- William, of Lawrenceville, NJ, died on July 11, 2004, at Princeton Medical Center. He was 78. Educated at Harvard University and Columbia Law School, he practiced law in Manhattan and Princeton. In 1988, after earning a Master's Degree in Psychology, he became a clinical counse
 Walter Wager, a novelist whose crime and spy thrillers -- among them ''58 Minutes,'' which became the Bruce Willis film ''Die Hard 2'' -- amounted to a catalog of modern mayhem, nuclear and otherwise, died on Sunday at Amsterdam House, a home for the elderly in Manhattan. A resident of the 
 BLAIR--Raymond J., 85, of Cape Elizabeth, ME on June 27, 2004. A Brooklyn native, he was a retired journalist and public relations executive.       
 EISENBERG -- Richard P., died on July 12 of gastric cancer at the age of 60. He was the most beloved husband of Ruth, adored father of Erika and Jessica, and father-in-law of Ben, ''uncle-fun Richie'' to all of his nieces and nephews, cherished brother-in-law of Josh, Brooks, Marilyn, Ralph
 LINDEMAN--Dr. Richard Harold, Asheville, NC, age 78, died Wednesday July 14, 2004. Dr. Lindeman was a Professor at Teachers College, Columbia University, in New York City, from 1977 until his retirement.       
 NICKERSON--Adams Hoffman. Of New York City and Cold Spring Harbor, NY passed away on July 13 in NYC. Born in New York on February 9, 1924, he was the devoted husband of the late Virginia Moffat Nickerson and the loving brother of the late Schuyler H. Nickerson and Judge Eugene H. Nickerson.
 O'ROURKE--Thomas Aidan. Survivor of terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, and February 26, 1993, died on July 13, 2004, at his home in Westhampton, NY, after a two year battle with head and neck cancer. He was 45. A broker at Euro Brokers Inc., the Pelham, NY re
 PICCONE--Paul. Political philosopher and founder and editor of the influential journal Telos, died on Monday, July 12 after a courageous struggle with cancer. Born in L'Aquila, Italy, Dr. Piccone immigrated to Rochester, NY at the age of 14. He received his Ph.D. in philosophy from SUNY Buf
 ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Laurance Rockefeller, a devoted benefactor and friend. Over the past five decades, he supported a wide range of the museum's activities, and for 13 years served as a member of the Asian ar
 Arthur Kane, the bassist of the influential 1970's punk band the New York Dolls, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Los Angeles, a few weeks after the surviving members of the original group had reunited to play their first concerts in almost 30 years. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles.     
 BALDINGER -- Daniel. Be loved husband of Myrna, father of Scott, Amy, Gregg, Joanne and Caroline Nelson, dear brother of Melvin, brother-in-law of Susan, Goldie and Jerome, uncle to Dina, Keith, Nancy, and the late Steven Baldinger, good friend to many. He was a dynamic, gregarious man who 
 COOPER--Maurice Diehl. Of Fox Hill Village, Westwood, MA on Sunday, July 11, 2004, formerly of New York City. Husband of the late Marie L. Quin. Born in Pittsburg, PA on April 19, 1916 he was the son of the late Maurice D. and Marion (Lewis) Cooper. A graduate of Phillips Academy and Yale, 
 KAHN--Jacob A, DDS. Loving uncle of Barbara Solan; Vicki and Alan Mazel; Gail and Gerry Cohen. Great-uncle and great-great uncle. He will be missed by all. Service private.       
 KLEBNIKOV -- Paul. The Boards of the Russian Children's Welfare Society mourn the passing of our brother, friend and supporter, Paul Klebnikov, whose family has for generations been active in our organization. Paul's grandmother, Catherine L. Nebolsine, was our President from 1974-1984 and 
 KORNHAUSER--William, 79. Pioneering sociologist, professor at the University of California at Berkeley and advocate for democracy and social justice. Died in his sleep on July 3, 2004, at his home in Berkeley, CA. Much loved father of Anne Kornhauser of New York City and devoted brother of 
 LEMBO--Michael John. 92, on July 11, in Tucson, formerly of Boca Raton, FL. Survived by his children: Francesca Galt, Carole Gulisano, Camille Mohaupt and Michael J. Lembo, Jr., eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 66 years, Rose Alfieri. Lov
 NICKERSON--Adams Hoffman. Of New York City and Cold Spring Harbor, NY passed away on July 13 in NYC. Born in New York on February 9, 1924, he was the devoted husband of the late Virginia Moffat Nickerson and the loving brother of the late Schuyler H. Nickerson and Judge Eugene H. Nickerson.
 OSTER--Abe. The trustees, faculty, and families of the Schechter Regional High School of Teaneck, NJ, are deeply saddened by the passing of Abe Oster, a co-founder, avid supporter, and valued friend. His entrepreneurial spirit and generosity contributed greatly to the realization of our com
 ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. We mourn the death of our father on July 11. We honor the vision, generosity, and leadership that he brought to an astonishing range of endeavors. We will miss his wit, his warmth, and his wisdom as well as the courageous grace he showed in his final years. We are
 TATCH--Col. David, devoted husband and father, was born in Newark, New Jersey, on November 18, 1911; died July 10, 2004. He enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1933. In 1970, he retired from the US Regular Army as a full Colonel with 33 years of service. After retiring from the service, he worked 
 TINCHER--Robert K. Sr. Mocal Enterprises, Inc. mourns the passing of their associate and colleague. After 40 years of service, he will be missed. For memorial contributions, please call 212-683-4444.       
 Colman Genn, a career educator who exposed corruption in New York City schools by secretly recording conversations about political and ethnic considerations in filling jobs, died on Thursday night at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. He was 68. The cause was respiratory 
 GENN--Colman. The Board and staff of the Center for Educational Innovation-Public Education Association are overwhelmed with sadness at the sudden death of its beloved friend and colleague Colman Genn. Cole was a great educator, devoted to improving the lives of all children, especially the
 JANKO--Marvin. Proud Navy veteran of WW II, died July 15, 2004 of complications from Alzheimers. He is survived by his loving wife, Elaine Albert Janko, sons Andrew Janko and Stephen Janko, daughters Hillary Ritholz and Heather Dennis; sister Leila Richter, and predeceased by his brother Ir
 MALLEY--Terence, 67, died July 8, 2004, in Tacoma, WA. Professor Emeritus Long Island University, Brooklyn Campus, he was the author of ''Richard Brautigan,'' a critical study; a poet and a baseball scholar. He will be greatly missed by friends and his surviving family, including his wife K
 OSTER--Abe. It is with deep sadness that the Board and staff of the JCC on the Palisades mourn the loss of Abe Oster, a great friend and humanitarian, who devoted his life to making a meaningful difference in the lives of others. A son of Holocaust survivors, Abe made a lifelong commitment 
 ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. We mourn the death of our father on July 11. We honor the vision, generosity, and leadership that he brought to an astonishing range of endeavors. We will miss his wit, his warmth, and his wisdom as well as the courageous grace he showed in his final years. We are
 SOMACH--Martin, age 75, died July 14, 2004 at home in Great Neck, NY. For almost two years he put up a gutsy fight against pancreatic cancer. Dear husband of Barbara, loving father of Cara (Robert), Brian (Joy) and Gary (deceased). Proud and boastful grandfather of Samantha, Zachary, Joshua
 Ron Milner, a playwright who translated the workaday rhythms and jazz riffs of his native Detroit into portraits of the struggles and triumphs of urban African-Americans, died on Friday at a hospital near his home. He was 66. The cause was complications from liver cancer, said his s
 Thomas F. Madigan, an Emmy Award-winning television producer whose career spanned radio, advertising and film, died on July 8 in New York City. He was 85. The cause was complications of heart surgery, his family said. In 1980 Mr. Madigan received an Emmy for producing ''The 
 George W. Thorn, a physician whose work helped transform the treatment of kidney diseases and other disorders, notably Addison's disease, died June 26 at an assisted living center in Beverly, Mass., said his son, Weston. He was 98. Dr. Thorn was physician in chief at Peter Bent Brig
 Dr. Loren R. Mosher, a former National Institute of Mental Health official who developed a drug-free approach to treating schizophrenia and argued that psychiatrists should rely less heavily on antipsychotic medications, died on July 10 at a clinic in Berlin. He was 70. The cause wa
 DALZELL--F. Briggs. The Board and staff of the Seamen's Church Institute of New York & New Jersey, together with George D. Benjamin, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and the Rev. Dr. Jean R. Smith, Executive Director, express their deepest sorrow at the death of F. Briggs Dalzell. From 19
 FISHER--Alexander A., M.D. Died Saturday, July 17 at age 98. Devoted husband of the late Lillian Fisher, he will be greatly missed by his children Stephen A. Fisher (Susan) of Berkeley, CA and Adria Price (Stephen) of Roslyn, NY, four grandchildren, Karin W. Fisher-Golton (Joe), Jacob S. Fi
 GENN--Colman. It is with deep sadness that the Board and staff of the Trey Whitfield School mourn the loss of Colman Genn, our esteemed Trustee and friend of our School. Cole has been such an enormous supporter of our school's mission, and his wisdom, knowledge and insights will be irreplac
 GENSKE--William Backman. Suddenly July 6, 2004 at his home in Gaucin, Spain. Husband of Sylvia Simpson Dowling. Father of Sarah G. Senbahar, William Genske and Ana G. Elghanayan. Grandfather of four. Step father of Donald and Eric Dowling. Brother of Jane Genske Briggs.       
 HAMILTON--Todd. June 18, 2004 of a stroke. Raised in New Hope, PA. Graduate of Atlantic College (Wales, UK); Skidmore College (1980); bond trader Goldman Sachs 1982-88. After leaving Wall Street, he settled in San Francisco. Todd was a mountainbiking enthusiast and an avid musician, perform
 HAZZARD--Robert D., on July 14, 2004, of Somers, NY. Former Bedford town supervisor and Westchester County Legislator. Senior partner of Kent, Hazzard, Jaeger, Conroy, Verni and Freeman of White Plains, NY. Survived by his wife Gretchen, his children Jody, Halik, Lawrence and Robert Hazzard
 HOAGLAND -- Edgar Day. Died at home in East Hampton, NY on July 16, 2004 in his 87th year. He had a wonderful life. He cherished his family as they did him. He was a completely honorable gentleman. He commanded a squadron of PT boats during WW II and was awarded the Bronze Star and Silver S
 KENT--Abe, 88, died on July 12, 2004 in Atlantis, Florida. A prominent leader in the toy industry. Abe was Chairman of the Toy Manufacturers of America and retired in 1980 as Senior Vice-President of the Ideal Toy Corporation, a company he served for 45 years. Abe was the beloved husband of
 LANFORD--Oscar E. Schodack, NY. Died at home on June 28, 2004. Dr. Lanford was President at SUNY Fredonia 1961-1970 and 1970-1979 he was Vice Chancellor of SUNY Albany.       
 LAUX--Paul W. Master Architectural Detailer, age 75, died July 10 following a remarkable 56 year tenure with our firm. A true craftsman par excellence, he was responsible for the exterior detailing of many of our finest projects. We mourn his passing and will miss his wise and generous coun
 LAVINSKY--Larry M., born October 23, 1929, in New York City, died July 8, 2004. He was a graduate of City College of New York and New York University Law School, a partner at Proskauer Rose LLP, a former chairman of the National Law Committee of the AntiDefamation League of B'nai B'rith, an
 LESMAN -- Howard. Who carved a successful career at one of New York's most creative advertising agencies, died on Thursday, in Amagansett, NY, of cancer. He was 48 years old. Mr. Lesman began his advertising career in Boston and moved to New York in the early 80's to join Ammirati & Puris w
 OPPENHEIMER -- Jack C., died in Santa Rosa, California, on June 26, 2004, at 86, after a brief illness. Mr. Oppenheimer was born in New York City and graduated from the University of Wisconsin and Yale Law School. During his thirty-year career in Federal Government, Mr. Oppenheimer worked i
 OSTER--Abe. It is with deep sadness that the Board and staff of the JCC on the Palisades mourn the loss of Abe Oster, a great friend and humanitarian, who devoted his life to making a meaningful difference in the lives of others. A son of Holocaust survivors, Abe made a lifelong commitment 
 SCHNEIDER -- Alan F. ''There's always some hope'' were the last words from a man not about himself, but as a reminder to those who too often forget. For a man who was considered by all who knew him to be the gentle one in his family of vocal and strong-minded women, he was the sage who appr
 SHANLEY--Robert E. Died on June 3, 2004 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was the husband of the late Katherine Teaman McGuire and the late Aline Cyr. He is survived by one brother, Francis Shanley of Brooklyn and eight nieces and nephews. Mr. Shanley was born in Brooklyn, N.Y. on December 20, 19
 SOMACH--Martin, age 75, died July 14, 2004 at home in Great Neck, NY. For almost two years he put up a gutsy fight against pancreatic cancer. Dear husband of Barbara, loving father of Cara (Robert), Brian (Joy) and Gary (deceased). Proud and boastful grandfather of Samantha, Zachary, Joshua
 Dr. William W. Stead, a scientist and health administrator whose studies of tuberculosis in nursing homes suggested that blacks could have a genetic susceptibility to the disease, died July 8 at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 85. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's di
 Maj. Gen. Charles W. Sweeney, who flew the B-29 Superfortress that dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, the second atomic strike on Japan in the final days of World War II, died Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. General Sweeney, who lived in Milton, Mass., was 84. 
 David Blow, a British biophysicist who helped develop X-ray crystallography, a technique used to unravel the molecular structures of animal and human proteins, died June 8 at his home in Appledore, England. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said his early collaborator, Dr. Micha
 BOBROW--Elias Naum, M.D. July 18, 2004, at home in New York City. Beloved husband of Felicitas. Born in Buenes Aires, he was a resident of Jacksonville, FL, and NYC. He will be fondly remembered for his warmth, wry sense of humor and his industrious work habits. Funeral services at Crestwoo
 FISHER--Alexander A., M.D. Died Saturday, July 17, at age 98. Devoted husband of the late Lillian Fisher, he will be greatly missed by his children Stephen A. Fisher, M.D. (Susan) of Berkeley, CA and Adria Price (Stephen) of Roslyn, NY, four grandchildren, Karin W. Fisher-Golton (Joe), Jaco
 KATZ--Gerald. It is with the deepest of sorrow that we mourn the passing of Gerald Katz at the age of 66 years. Getty was a very special and unique human being, who was loved and admired by everyone who he encountered in life. Getty's most important priority was first and foremost his famil
 OSTER--Abe. We are without words to express the depth of our sadness at Abe's sudden and untimely death. He was larger than life in so many ways--to his family, the Jewish community, to his friends and to his business associates. He will stay with us as the truly memorable man that he was. 
 ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. We mourn the death of our father on July 11. We honor the vision, generosity, and leadership that he brought to an astonishing range of endeavors. We will miss his wit, his warmth, and his wisdom as well as the courageous grace he showed in his final years. We are
 Carlos Kleiber, a gifted Austrian conductor whose reclusiveness made him legendary, died last Tuesday at 74 after a long illness, a family member told The Associated Press. According to the Slovenian news agency S.T.A., The Associated Press reported, he was buried on Saturday in Kon
 DOERFLER--Leo G., Ph.D. Age 85, on July 7. Husband of Alice, now deceased, father of Dennis, Donald, David, and Ann; 11 grandchildren. Dr. Doerfler was considered one of the founding fathers in the field of audiology. He established The Audiology Dept at The University of Pittsburgh, where 
 KATZ--Gerald. It is with the deepest of sorrow that we mourn the passing of Gerald Katz at the age of 66 years. Gerry was a very special and unique human being, who was loved and admired by everyone who he encountered in life. Gerry's most important priority was first and foremost his famil
 KLEIBER--Carlos. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Maestro Carlos Kleiber. His association with the company led to a series of brilliant performances acclaimed by audiences and critics alike. Following his debut in 1988 leading an historic cast in ''La Boheme,'' he conducted 18 mem
 MORGANSTEIN -- Jordan. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of our esteemed and dedicated benefactor. To his beloved wife, Linda, and to the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, President Seymour G. Siegel, Treasurer       
 RAHIM--Shaikh Arif. Age 60, died in his sleep at home on July 18th, 2004. Appropriately, his last night was spent entertaining his friends with his delicious cooking, fine wine and conversation. His sons Omar and Hasan, daughter-in-law Neesha and grandson Shyam will be holding an evening of
 SIMONOFSKY -- Hyman B. We mourn the loss of Hy, a kind and gentle soul. His thoughtfulness, understanding and devotion to family and friends is his everlasting legacy. The Kaplowitz Family       
 TURNER--Jeffrey. It is with deep sorrow that Kaye Scholer mourns the passing of its friend and colleague, Jeffrey Turner, this past weekend. Jeff possessed legal acumen at the highest level of the profession and was a vibrant part of the firm's Los Angeles office. He was a prolific author a
 James Williams, a pianist formerly in Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers and a leading jazz educator, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 53 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was liver cancer, said Jenise Grice, fiance of the drummer Tony Reedus, Mr. Williams's nephew. Mr. Willia
 AUSTIN--Ralph E. President, Austin Document Service, LLC; professor, Zicklin School of Business at Baruch College; Veteran, U.S. Army; beloved husband of Elaine, father of his darling Tiffany, brother of Ronald and nephew of Aunt Bea, many other beloved relatives and dear friends. Your smil
 DILLON--Milton, M.D., 90 years old, died on July 20, 2004. Devoted husband of Celia (nee Marcus). Beloved father of Robert and Phyllis and Donald and Louise. Cherished grandfather of Alexander, Samuel and Hannah. Respected OB/GYN, Navy Lt. in WWII. Loved and honored by those who knew him. M
 DRUCKER--Burton N. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Burt, who died in Phoenix, AZ on June 12th, 2004. Burt was, above all, a dedicated Democrat who gave unstinting loyalty to the party both in NYC and Phoenix. For 25 years we had the pleasure of visiting Burt in Phoenix and exchanging 
 ECKEL--John W.J., On Tuesday, July 20, 2004, John W.J. Eckel, formerly of Haworth, NJ, 90, passed away at Reeds Landing in Springfield, MA. Born in Jersey City, NJ on October 1, 1913, he was the son of the late John W. and Mary (Ficke) Eckel. As a lifelong resident of New Jersey, he was a g
 TAYLOR--Walter Jennings. Walt Taylor passed away surrounded by his family on Wednesday, July 14, 2004 of complications related to lung disease. He was born on March 8, 1921 in New York, NY to Henry C. and Jeanette J. Taylor of Cold Spring Harbor and New York, NY. He graduated from St. Paul'
 VON SONNENBURG -Hubert. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn deeply the loss of longtime colleague and friend Hubert von Sonnenburg, who was the Sherman Fairchild Chairman of Paintings Conservation and one of the world's preeminent conservators. Over his many years
 WILLIAMS--James. It is with deep sorrow that William Paterson University mourns the passing of our colleague and friend, James Williams, a gifted jazz pianist, composer and educator. James embodied the connection between performance and teaching. He had a wonderful, rare and unusual combina
 Peter Baird, a master puppeteer in the mold of his legendary parents, Bil and Cora Baird, died on Friday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 52 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in Los Angeles. The cause was esophageal cancer, diagnosed in November, said his wife, Mav
 Antonio Gades, whose pure style as a flamenco dancer and creative collaborations with the film director Carlos Saura made him an international star, died on Tuesday in Madrid. He was 67. Mr. Gades had been ill with cancer for several years. His death was announced by a spokesman for
 AUSTIN--Ralph. We mourn the loss of Ralph, a dear friend to ADF Companies and a founding member of our board of directors. His advice, kindness, thoughtfulness and devotion to family, friends and associates will be missed. Don Harty, Frank Levy, Harry Harnett ADF Companies       
 DILLON--Milton, M.D., 90 years old, died on July 20, 2004. Devoted husband of Celia (nee Marcus). Beloved father of Robert and Phyllis and Donald and Louise. Cherished grandfather of Alexander, Samuel and Hannah. Respected OB/GYN, Navy Lt. in WWII. Loved and honored by those who knew him. M
 LIFSON--Burton. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, FL, acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Burton Lifson. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Rita, and their family. Robert Rachesky, President       
 MILLER--Murray A. Founding partner of Rothschild, Topal, Miller & Kraft. Beloved husband of Thelma, dearest father of Richard and Randi, caring father-in-law of Guenther, brother of the late Harold and Samuel. Funeral services today 10:15 AM from the Sinai Chapels, 162-05 Horace Harding Exp
 STOUTE--Dr. Argyle. A psychoanalyst in the U.S. and Paris, and steadfast civil rights activist and humanitarian, died on Sunday July 18, 2004, in Westchester in the company of his family at the age of ninety-seven. Dr. Stoute is survived by his two daughters, Dr. Beverly Stoute, a psychiatr
 WILLIAMS--James. It is with deep sorrow that William Paterson University mourns the passing of our colleague and friend, James Williams, a gifted jazz pianist, composer and educator. James embodied the connection between performance and teaching. He had a wonderful, rare and unusual combina
 Richard A. Bloch, a co-founder of H&R Block and a champion of cancer patients, died early yesterday at his home in Kansas City, Mo. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Linda McDougall, an H&R Block spokeswoman. Mr. Bloch used his keen eye for business to build a fam
 Illinois Jacquet, the influential tenor-saxophone star who bridged swing and rhythm and blues and persevered as a big band leader into his early 80's, died yesterday at his home in Queens. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said his companion of 23 years, Carol Scherick.      
 Jerry Goldsmith, a composer whose hundreds of innovative scores for movies and television, from ''Patton'' to ''Gunsmoke,'' showcased many musical styles, died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 75. The cause was cancer, Lois Carruth, his personal assistant, told The 
 DUBIN--Martin, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of New York, NY, passed away July 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Maddy. Loving father of Samantha Dubin, Danni Dubin, Meredith Dubin, and Nicole (Kevin) Meadow. Dear brother of Harvey (Bari) Dubin and Harriet (Ted) Wasserman. Devoted son-in-law of Do
 FAEDER--Alfred H. Passed away surrounded by his family on July 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving brother of Gustav and Blanche Leigh. Devoted father of Edward (Shelley), Robert (Maarit) and Michael (Susan). Cherished grandfather of James (Sarah), Erik (Jeanette), Sam, Charlie an
 LAMBERT--Abbott. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Abbott Lambert. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 STAMFORD--John S., passed away on July 21, 2004 after a lengthy illness. A lifelong lover of the music and the sea. Born in Chicago, entered the US Coast Guard and served in the North Atlantic during WW II. Master's Degree from Manhattan School of Music followed his military service and Joh
 STOKVIS--John on July 21, 2004, 88 years, of Port Washington. Born in the Hague, Netherlands. Educated at Bilton Grange, Stowe and Cambridge (UK). His business career included RS Stokvis & Sons, Rotterdam, Whitehall Distributors (NY), and 1951 founding Stokvis Multiton Corp., a LI-based lea
 STOUTE--Dr. Argyle. A psychoanalyst in the U.S. and Paris, and steadfast civil rights activist and humanitarian, died on Sunday July 18, 2004, in Westchester in the company of his family at the age of ninety-seven. Dr. Stoute is survived by his two daughters, Dr. Beverly Stoute, a psychiatr
 SCHULICK--Edward H. 8/3/31--7/23/84 Twentieth anniversary of your death, my father, who, 45 years ago, left behind a natural daughter. Despite these sad years in shadow, you're my loving father. Anyone who knew him, please contact L. Gawiec, Mailbox 145, 2300 Holcomb Bridge Road, Suite 103,
 Richard Ney, an investment adviser and best-selling author on finance whose earlier career, in films, led to a brief, stormy marriage to the screen star Greer Garson, died on Sunday at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 87. The cause was heart disease, said his wife, Mei-Lee Ney.  
 mile Peynaud, a Bordeaux enologist who virtually invented the role of wine consultant, transforming the way wine is made and enjoyed, died on Sunday in his home outside of Bordeaux. He was 92. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Danile Peynaud. More tha
 Elie Abel, a former foreign and domestic correspondent at both The New York Times and NBC News who drew on those experiences as dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University in the 1970's, died on Thursday at a hospice in Rockville, Md. He was 83. The cause was pn
 Hubert von Sonnenburg, one of the world's leading painting conservators and chairman of paintings conservation at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on July 16. He was 76. The cause was complications from cancer, said his wife, Renate von Sonnenburg. Known for conserving a
 FAEDER--Alfred. The Divisional Board of Pride of Judea Community Services, a Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services program, expresses profound sorrow on the passsing of its esteemed member, Al Faeder. His friendship and generosity to the Pride will not be forgottten. Jeffrey C. Ber
 SILVERMAN -- Esther nee Krieger of Hackensack, NJ on July 21, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Sidney Silverman, First president of Bergen County Community College. Devoted mother of Richard Silverman and his partner Haan Endred, and the late Dr. Michael Silverman. Dear aunt of Arlene and
 ZWICKER--Eddie, on July 22, 2004. Beloved husband of Ellin. Loving father of Jaime. Devoted grandfather of Perry and Brian. Dear brother of Norman and Audrey. Loved by his cherished puppy Kismet. He enhanced the lives of all who knew him. He will be greatly missed by all. Service Sunday, 11
 Dr. Edward J. Hoffman, a scientist whose early research in medical imaging helped create the positron emission tomography scanner, used to detect cancers and other diseases, died July 1 at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was live
 BAKER--David H. A Grammy Award winning audio engineer/producer of over 2,000 recordings and master of the art of recording on July 14, 2004 at age 58. His work spans 40 years and all genres of music. He won a Grammy Award in 1998 for Shirley Horn's recording ''I Remember Miles.'' He recorde
 BLAUSTEIN--Al, 80, painter and printmaker, died July 15, 2004 in NYC after a short illness. As Professor of Fine Arts at Pratt Institute he guided generations of students. Recipient of Guggenheim fellowships and the Prix de Rome, he is represented in numerous public and private collections.
 BLUMBERG--Ralph. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Steven, Lynda Royce and the late Drew. We mourn the loss of a truly special, kindhearted, sweet-natured, generous, loving man, who sought to bring sweetness and a smile to all he met. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside,'' 1450 Broadwa
 FARBER--Allan. Died July 16, 2004 in Boca Raton, FL at age 100. Survived by his two daughters, Phyllis Burger of Greenwich, CT and Sandra Horvitz of NYC, granddaughters Susan and Judith Burger, and sister, Lillian Feinberg, he was a long time Worcester, MA resident, businessman, and nationa
 GLICKMAN--Frank. Of Hallandale, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY. Loving husband of Elaine. Brother of Sydell. Father of George, Tobey, Andrew, Jane, Stuart and Jodie. Grandfather of Dana, Michael, Jeffrey, Lisa, Marshall, Monica, Marc, Heather, Scott, Lonnie, Lindsay and Miles. Great-grandfath
 HUNT--David J. David died on July 21, 2004 in Oakland, CA of a short devastating illness. A memorial service will be held at St. Mark's Cathedral, Seattle on Wednesday, July 28, 2004 at 10A.M. He was an indispensable presence in the lives of us who cared about music, golf, wit, reading, eru
 LIGHT--Gerald. 85, of Great Neck, on July 23, 2004. Husband of the late Mary Light, he was the cherished father of Hillary Fuhrman and her husband Richard; Ronald Light and his wife, Susan; Valerie Joseph and her husband, Bob; and Wendy Abrams and her husband Danal. He also was the loving '
 WELCH--Robert F. On July 22, 2004. Longtime resident of Garden City. Beloved husband of the late Eva G. Loving father of Charles, the late Stephen and Evelyn (O'Reilly), and proud father-in-law of Roy. Cherished grandfather of Robert, Katharine and Michael. Dear brother of Eileen Ward. Trea
 ZWICKER--Eddie, on July 22, 2004. Beloved husband of Ellin. Loving father of Jaime. Devoted grandfather of Perry and Brian. Dear brother of Norman and Audrey. Loved by his cherished puppy Kismet. He enhanced the lives of all who knew him. He will be greatly missed by all. Service Sunday, 11
 KLEIN--Felix. January 17, 1911 - July 26, 1994. Founder, National Society for Graphology. Born in Vienna, survivor of Dachau and Buchenwald, he was to become known as ''the dean of American graphologists.'' Felix's legacy of learning and love knew no bounds and will never be replicated. Jan
 Ronald Sukenick, an American writer whose work dealt playfully and self-referentially with the conventions of fiction, died on Thursday at his home in New York City. He was 72. The cause was inclusion body myositis, a rare muscle disease, said his wife, the writer Julia Frey.       
 Dr. Edward B. Lewis, a geneticist whose landmark observations of fruit-fly genes shed light on embryonic development in humans and was recognized with a Nobel Prize in 1995, died July 21 at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 86 and lived in San Marino, Calif. Th
 EISENBERG--Alfred. On July 25, 2004, age 84. Beloved husand of the late Yvette Neufeld Eisenberg. Devoted father to Jacqui, Mikel and Jeffrey. Loving brother of Henry, and cherished grandfather of Daniel and Jared. Adored uncle of many nieces and nephews, and a genuine friend to all. He wil
 HUNT--David J. David died on July 21, 2004 in Oakland, CA of a short devastating illness. A memorial service will be held at St. Mark's Cathedral, Seattle on Wednesday, July 28, 2004 at 10A.M. He was an indispensable presence in the lives of us who cared about music, golf, wit, reading, eru
 POLSKY--Edwin. On July 25, 2004, in his 87th year. Loving husband of Gladys, devoted father of Gail Rudnick, Kenneth (deceased) and Andrew Polsky. Cherished brother of Myra Martin. Adored grandfather and great-grandfather. The family will receive friends Monday, July 26, from 6 to 8 pm, at 
 SANGER--Col. Marshall, U.S. Army, Infantry, Ret., 81, died at home in McLean, VA, on July 23. Soldier, scholar, loving husband and father. Mike served his country from 1941 to 1975. He graduated from U.S.M.A. in 1946 and received his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1967. Survived by his beloved wife
 SUKENICK -- Ronald. Died July 22. Son of Louis and Cecile Frey Sukenick. Sister of Gloria, wife of Julia Frey. Will be missed by his family and friends. A memorial service will be held in the fall. Donations may be made to American Book Review, Illinois State University, Campus Box 4241, No
 TAUB--Max. Died on July 24, 2004, at age 92 years. Husband of Flora. Loving father to Lewis and father-in-law to Joanne. Brother of Susan Weinstein and Emanuel Tabachnick. He was predeceased by his sisters Betty Krugman, Lee Seiffert and Peggy Rothstein. Retired teacher of James Monroe High
 WEINGARTNER--Henry W. Of Eastchester, NY. Loving husband of Ilse and devoted father of Marilyn. Born in Flehingen, Germany, September 4, 1914. Left Nazi Germany in 1937. Returned with the U.S. Army in 1941. Earned a battlefield commission as a military intelligence officer. He was instrumen
 WELCH--Robert F. On July 22, 2004. Longtime resident of Garden City. Beloved husband of the late Eva G. Loving father of Charles, the late Stephen and Evelyn (O'Reilly), and proud father-in-law of Roy. Cherished grandfather of Robert, Katharine and Michael. Dear brother of Eileen Ward. Trea
 EISENBERG--Alfred. On July 25, 2004, age 84. Beloved husand of the late Yvette Neufeld Eisenberg. Devoted father to Jacqui, Mikel and Jeffrey. Father-in-law to Nicole. Loving brother of Henry, and cherished grandfather of Daniel and Jared. Adored uncle of many nieces and nephews, and a genu
 HEDSTROM -- Carl Ernest, age 76, of Cape May Beach, NJ died on July 24, 2004 at his residence. Born in Norristown, PA, he formerly lived in Upper Darby, PA and Great Neck, NY. He taught at Great Neck North Senior High School for many years. He served in the U.S. Navy during WW II. Surviving
 MILLER -- Roberta. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Roberta Miller, sister of our esteemed trustee Michael A. Wiener who has served Mount Sinai with outstanding dedication, leadership and generosity for many years. We extend our sincere 
 NORDMAN--Theodore H., Jr. Of Upper Black Eddy, Pennsylvania, formerly of New York City, died July 26, 2004. He was born on November 19, 1930 in Birmingham, AL. A graduate of Birmingham Southern University in Birmingham, AL, he received a Master's degree in speech & drama from Ohio State Uni
 POBINER--Dr. Jeffrey. The faculty and residents of the Division of Endodontics at Stony Brook University record with deep sorrow the passing of their faculty member, Dr. Jeffrey Pobiner. Jeff's involvement, support, and ability to pass onto others his vast knowledge of endodontics was limit
 POLSKY--Edwin. On July 25, 2004, in his 87th year. Loving husband of Gladys, devoted father of Gail Rudnick, Kenneth (deceased) and Andrew Polsky. Cherished brother of Myra Martin. Adored grandfather and great-grandfather. The family will receive friends Monday, July 26, from 6 to 8 pm, at 
 SILBER--Cecil, 94, co-owner of 1 Christopher Street for 72 years, passed away on July 25, 2004. Beloved husband of Madelyn for 66 years, loving father of Carole and Jimmy, devoted brother of Barbara. He was a genteel man with an uncanny sense of wit, style and grace, who will be dearly miss
 STRAUSS--Martin. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed founding member and past president. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Ellen, his children Gary, Joanne & to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, H
 Van Deren Coke, a curator, teacher, author and photographer with an eye for the experimental and surreal, died on July 11 at a hospital in Albuquerque. He was 83 and lived in Santa Fe, N.M. His death was announced by his family. Starting in the mid-1950's Mr. Coke's work was
 Carmine G. De Sapio, the last boss of Tammany Hall, as the once-notorious Manhattan Democratic Party organization was known, died late yesterday afternoon at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, said his daughter, Geraldine A. De Sapio. He was 95 and lived in Greenwich Village. At h
 DALZELL--F. Briggs, The Trustees of the South Street Seaport Museum express their deepest condolences to the family of F. Briggs Dalzell. As one of the Museum's first trustees, his keen interest in maritime concerns made him a welcome and knowledgeable addition. He will be greatly missed.  
 GLASSMAN--Daniel, 75, on July 27, 2004. Beloved husband of Lila (Smith), devoted father of Steven and Debra, Robert and Diane, Scott and Gabriel, adored grandfather of Alexander, Joanna, Maxwell, Stewart, Miles, Paige, Andrew and David, loving brother of Annette Ostrow, Beatrice Schwartz, a
 GOODWIN--Charles W. of Rye, NY died early Sunday, July 25,2004. Born on December 2, 1908 in Brooklyn. He married Christine Fleurat in 1941. He is survived by his two children and four grandchildren. Friends may call on Thursday from 2-4 and 7-9PM at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post
 JACQUET--Illinois renowned jazz musician and band leader, passed away Thursday, July 22, 2004 at his home in Jamaica, NY. Visitation Wednesday, July 28th from 1-3 PM at the J. Foster Phillips Funeral Home, 179-24 Linden Blvd. Jamaica, NY and services Thursday, July 29th at the Riverside Chu
 KNITTLE--Norman P. Beloved husband of Pearl. Loving father of Bruce. Cherished grandfather of Craig. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, L.I., 1 PM Wednesday. KNITTLE -- Norman. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our
 LIEBOWITZ--Hirsch Robert, M.D. Beloved husband of Anita (nee Sternberg). Cherished father of Rose Merrie (Edward Behar), Janice (Andy Schoenholtz), and Robin. Devoted grandfather of Ari, David and Noah Schoenholtz. Services will be held at I. J. Morris, Hempstead, Wednesday, July 28th at no
 McCARTHY--William F. The Board of Directors, staff, clients and volunteers of Gay Men's Health Crisis mourn the death and celebrate the life of our esteemed former Chair William McCarthy. We remember Bill's commitment to people living with and affected by HIV/AIDS, his tenacity and strength
 MEYER--Jerome. On July 26th, 2004. Devoted husband of Charlotte, dear father of Bennett (Sharon), and the late Janet, loving grandfather of Jessica and Ashley. Retired President of the Troy Chemical Co. and Tuttles Elixer Co. Founder and first President of Yama-Ki Bonsai Society and author 
 POLSKY--Edwin. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of the beloved father of Gail Rudnick, a member of the Executive Board of our National Women's Division and former president of its New York Chapter. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving wi
 POONS--Emanuel. Born in Amsterdam, March 23, 1911. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of loss that we announce the death of Emanuel Poons in NYC on July 26, 2004. He is survived by his children Jacob and Henrietta Poons, and his grandsons Morgan and Mark Poons. The family wishes to
 TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold. The officers, trustees, clergy and members of Temple Israel Center of White Plains mourn the passing of our distinguished Rabbi Emeritus. Rabbi Turetsky was a teacher of Torah, and provided spiritual guidance to our community with strength and determination for 22 ye
 WOODS -- Timothy. B.R. Guest Restaurants, Inc. and James Hotels are saddened by the untimely passing of Timothy Woods. He is survived by his wife, Carol, a beloved employee of the B.R. Guest family. Our heart goes out to the entire Woods family during this time.       
 Frederick C. LaRue, a top Nixon campaign official who passed money from a secret White House fund to buy the silence of the Watergate burglars, died Saturday at a hotel in Biloxi, Miss. He was 75. His heart failed while he was reading a book, his son, Ike LaRue III, said. He lived i
 AVERITT -- John W., ar chitect, 58 years old, died at home on July 27. Survived by his loving wife Susan Anne Lange, cherished daughter Lucy, devoted parents Douglas and Frances, brother Doug and a niece and nephew, Nelle and Mac Averitt. Memorial service to be held Saturday, July 31st, 11a
 DOLE -- George Chambers, 61, July 23, 2004 of heart failure. An attorney and financial consultant, he was the cherished husband of Cuky Lourdes Dole, devoted son of the late Elizabeth and Richard, and master to his beloved cats Meow Meow, Fangs, and his dog, Luna. He was a great man and wil
 EDELBAUM--Philip, a prominent Manhattan criminal defense attorney died Sunday at age 68. He is survived by his daughter Stacey, son Evan, son-in-law Rich and three granddaughters Marissa, Nicole and Dana.       
 GLASSMAN--Daniel, 75, on July 27, 2004. Beloved husband of Lila (Smith), devoted father of Steven and Debra, Robert and Diane, Scott and Gabriel, adored grandfather of Alexander, Joanna, Maxwell, Stewart, Miles, Paige, Andrew and David, loving brother of Annette Ostrow, Beatrice Schwartz, a
 LIFF--Walter. We lost a wonderful friend, husband, father, grandfather, educator. He was well loved. We shall miss him. Services Sinai Chapel, 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows, today, 12:15 PM.       
 LIN--Edward Yu-Teh, former Vice-Chairman of the Fujian Benevolent Association and Executive Secretary of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association, interpreter and advocate for the Fujianese people for over 50 years, husband of the late HoChi (nee Huang), father of Nancy and grandfath
 McCARTHY--William. Deeply loved and profoundly missed by his beloved partner Jonathan Burleson. He gave of himself generously in public service, music and charity work. Visitation will be at Frank E. Campbell's, 1076 Madison Av on Friday, 35 & 6-9PM. Funeral at 11AM Saturday at the Catholic
 POONS--Emanuel. Born in Amsterdam, March 23, 1911. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of loss that we announce the death of Emanuel Poons in NYC on July 26, 2004. He is survived by his children Jacob and Henrietta Poons, and his grandsons Morgan and Mark Poons. The family wishes to
 PRESS--Michael S. of Oyster Bay, NY, died on July 27, 2004 at age 55 following a courageous six month battle with sinus cancer. Beloved husband of Priscilla Campo Press and devoted father of Michael S. Press Jr. and Priscilla D. (''Dodie'') Press. He is survived by his brother Thomas of Hou
 RIEDERS--Arthur T., age 70 of Wayland, MA on July 28, 2004. Beloved husband of Bernice (Israel) Rieders. Devoted father of William Daniel Rieders and his wife Joan Mankoff of Hillsborough, CA and Deborah Lee Rieders of Brooklyn, NY. Dear grandfather of Hannah and Madeline Rieders. Services 
 SMITH--McLain B. Former member of the IBM Management Committee, died at 90 on July 13 in Quogue, L.I. after a long illness. In his 35year career at IBM, Mr. Smith led groups from sales to data processing. In WWII, Mr. Smith served in the U.S. Army Air Corps, achieving the rank of Major. He 
 TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold S. Husband of Noemie, father of Justin, Jonathan, Daniel, David, father-in-law of Wendy, Andrea, Jill, grandfather of Laura, Zev, Dylan, Adin, brother of Eileen Weltz, Aviva Hoschander, nephew of Pearl Ganz, uncle and cousin of many. Renowned spiritual leader, teacher
 WEAVER -- Martin E. (1938-2004) A.A. Dipl. In Ottawa, Canada on July 28, following a brief battle with cancer. Dearly missed by his wife Leslie Perowne, and daughters Laura, Mika, Helen and Alex. Senior faculty member at Columbia University. Memorial service will be held on Wednesday, Augus
 WOLF--Richard M. Teachers College mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus Richard M. Wolf, a scholar of international standing, a teacher, a model to colleagues and a wonderful person. Throughout his thirty years at TC, he dedicated himself to students, fellow faculty and excellence in edu
 Jackson Beck, a man both familiar and anonymous to millions, who became a legend by regularly introducing Superman to radio fans, died on Wednesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 92. His friend Anthony Tollin, a radio historian, confirmed the death. For most of its decad
 Lalo Delgado, a poet whose writings about the hardscrabble existence of Latinos in the Southwest made him one of the grandfathers of the Chicano literary renaissance of the 1960's and 1970's, died last Friday in Denver. He was 73. The cause was liver cancer, said Estevan Flores, a f
 CHARNER--Rabbi Tuvia. Beloved and dedicated father, grandfather, great grandfather, brother, educator, teacher, friend, mentor. Survived by his brother, Rabbi Dr. Morris Charner, his son and daughter-in-law, Rabbi Yitzchak and Rochel Charner, his daughter and son-in-law, Rabbi Hershey and R
 DOLE -- George Chambers, 61, July 23, 2004 of heart failure. An attorney and financial consultant, he was the cherished husband of Cuky Lourdes Dole, devoted son of the late Elizabeth and Richard, and master to his beloved cats Meow Meow, Fangs, and his dog, Luna. He was a great man and wil
 MALPICA--Henrick. 61, on July 28, 2004. Son of Blanca and Armando. Beloved husband to Martha. Devoted father and grandfather to Erik, Daniel, Gillian, Anicia, Stephen, Jonathan, Rachel, Catherine and Henrick Jr. Brother to Armando and a lifelong friend to Barbara Malpica. Henrick was a pion
 McCARTHY--William. Deeply loved and profoundly missed by his beloved partner Jonathan Burleson. He gave of himself generously in public service, music and charity work. Visitation will be at Frank E. Campbell's, 1076 Madison Av on Friday, 35 & 6-9PM. Funeral at 11AM Saturday at the Catholic
 PRESS--Michael S. of Oyster Bay, NY, died on July 27, 2004 at age 55 following a courageous six month battle with sinus cancer. Beloved husband of Priscilla Campo Press and devoted father of Michael S. Press Jr. and Priscilla D. (''Dodie'') Press. He is survived by his brother Thomas of Hou
 REGAN--Henry P. on July 27, 2004. Beloved father of Frances, Selina and Henry, Jr. Loving grandfather of Aidan. Dear father-in-law of Dean Curnutt. Also survived by his wife of 30 years Helen and many brothers and sisters. Reposing Dominic J. Cusimano-Court St. Funeral Home, 230 Court Stree
 TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold S. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the passing of this learned rabbi and friend. For many years he led our High Holy Days Parallel Services with his unique charm and warmth. His wisdom inspired us. Condolences to his beloved wife Noemie, children and grandchildren. Alla
 ZOHN--Irving. Passed away on July 28, 2004. Beloved husband of Edythe. Father of Matthew and Edward (Patricia), grandfather of Ian. Former Great Neck businessman, respected by all and deeply mourned by his family. Services today, 10AM at ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels'', Queens Bl
 Ruben Gomez, a leading pitcher for the New York and San Francisco Giants in the 1950's and one of the first prominent major leaguers from Puerto Rico, died Monday at his home in San Juan. He was 77. The cause was complications of a kidney ailment, the Giants said. Gomez, a r
 Martin E. Weaver, a noted historical preservationist whose projects ranged from buildings to steam locomotives, died on Wednesday in Ottawa. He was 66 and lived in Ottawa and on Morningside Heights in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. At his death he was on l
 LYLES--James B., Jr. Died Saturday, July 25, 2004 from a heart attack in St. Vincent Hospital in Manhattan at the age of 81. James was a loving husband to his wife of 40 years, the late Enid G. Lyles and a caring father whose attention and endless gift of his previous, little, free time wil
 SCHULMAN -- Robert. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
