 Professor Ezra Fleischer, an Israeli poet and scholar whose work on a long-forgotten trove of ancient Jewish manuscripts helped shed new light on the development of the early synagogue and Jewish prayer, died last Tuesday in Jerusalem. He was 78. His death was confirmed by Hebrew Un
 Nathan Brodsky, a Manhattan real estate developer who got his start by rehabilitating small, old buildings in the West Village and later dotted the skyline with sleek residential towers, died Thursday in Manhattan. He was 89. The death was announced by Mr. Brodsky's son and business
 BRODSKY--Nathan.The partners and brokers of The Lansco Corporation mourn the passing of Nathan Brodsky, a gentleman and icon in the Real Estate business. He will be greatly missed. Our sincerest condolences to the entire Brodsky family. The Lansco Corporation       
 BROWN--Benjamin M., 22. Beloved son, brother, grandson, nephew, and friend, was killed Saturday morning, according to news reports, by a drunk driver in Manhattan. He was a spectacular, joyful young man poised to take on the world. He will be loved forever. His family and friends are overwh
 BYERS--Fred C. Jr. Fred Byers (also known to his many friends and family members as ''Twig'') passed away Friday, July 28, 2006, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a six year battle with leukemia. He was 51 years old. Born in Kansas City, Missouri, to Joyce Morrison Byers and t
 GIBNEY--Conn Baker of Columbus, Ohio, Saturday, July 29, 2006. Preceded in death by parents, Kenneth and Poona Gibney. Survived by life partner, George Ziegler; brother, K.J. (Margaret) Gibney; sister, Gina Gibney; nephew, Kent (Stephanie) Gibney; nieces, Alane Gibney & Sharon (Ken) Taylor.
 HADLEY--Richard Parker, 90, of Maplewood, NJ and Ocean View, DE, died on July 29th. He graduated from Oberlin College and Columbia University law School. A former senior partner of Wall Street's Reynolds, Richards law firm, he specialized in Trusts and Estates. He is survived by his loving 
 KATZ--Esther. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Esther Katz, beloved mother of Arthur Katz, a treasured friend of the New York Jewish community whose dedicated leadership and support strengthens our ability to serve those in need.
 KEYES--Oliver Bruce, on July 30th, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Mary. Dear father of Lucy. He happily taught physics at Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. Reposing Redden Funeral Home, 325 W. 14th St., NYC, Tuesday 4-9 PM. Service Wednesday, 9:30 AM, at Redden's. Burial St. Raymond's C
 SIMRING--Noah Lior. Took his own life on his 21st birthday. Adored by his parents, Ruth and James, and sister Mia. He will be remembered as a talented musican, avid audiophile, scientist, barista and poet. Shiva will take place at Noah's home, 200 East 24th St, NYC. Donations in his memory 
 STAMM--Donald E. After a lengthly battle with cancer, died Sunday, July 30. Beloved husband of Audrey, devoted father of Leonard (Susan) and Mitchell, loving grandfather of Michael and Lauren, brother of Morton H. President of Credit Exchange, Inc. and member of the Commercial Law League of
 WINNICK--Louis. The board of directors and staff of the Fund for The City of New York mourn the loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Louis Winnick. He was central to the creation of the Fund, a major force in housing policy in New York City and in the nation, and a man of great intel
 SPICEHANDLER--Dr. John. Dear John. Lifelong friend, fellow union alumnus and fraternity brother. You had great courage and heart. You'll be forever missed. Dennis $(6$)SPICEHANDLER--Jonathan R., M.D. Infectious Disease Specialist, Of Short Hills, N.J. Former Chairman Schering Plough
 Anthony Cave Brown, a British journalist who wrote books about espionage, including a study of the role of intelligence in the invasion of Europe in World War II, died on July 14 in Warrenton, Va. He was 77. The cause was complications of pneumonia, Edward Russell, his former brothe
 Dr. Jonathan R. Spicehandler, a specialist in infectious diseases who led research and development for the drug maker Schering-Plough, died Sunday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 57. Dr. Robert J. Spiegel, chief medical officer for Schering-Plough, said the cause of death wa
 Frederick G. Kilgour, a distinguished librarian who nearly 40 years ago transformed a consortium of Ohio libraries into what is now the largest library cooperative in the world, making the catalogs of thousands of libraries around the globe instantly accessible to far-flung patrons, died on
 Harold Scott, an actor, producer and director and the first black artistic director of a major American regional theater, died at his home in Newark on July 16. He was 70. He died of natural causes, said Doug Hosney, the production manager at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Milburn, N.J
 ALBRECHT--Philip, E. Longboat Key, FL. Lords Valley, PA. Age 81. Died July 25, 2006. Born December 13, 1924 in New Orleans. Retired as a Security Analyst after 35 years on Wall Street and was past president of the New York Society of Security Analysts. Graduated from Tulane University and w
 BAXTER--Roy. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member Friar Roy Baxter. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Jerry Lewis, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean Pierre Trebot, Exec. Dir
 BRADY--Paul R., of Malverne suddenly on July 30, 2006 in his 42nd year. Beloved husband of 8 years to Lisa Hambertson-Brady. Loving son of Frank A. Brady Jr. and the late Helen Ryan Brady. Dear brother of Patricia Duffy (Stephen), Barbara Pierce (Jeffrey), and Frank A. (Tricia). Devoted unc
 BRODSKY--Nathan ''Jon''. The 42nd Street Development Corporation knows well the good qualities Jon Brodsky passed on to his family. We share with Dan and Dean our heartfelt sympathy at the death of their father and grandfather.       
 BYERS--Fred C. Jr. Fred Byers (also known to his many friends and family members as ''Twig'') passed away Friday, July 28, 2006, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a six year battle with leukemia. He was 51 years old. Born in Kansas City, Missouri, to Joyce Morrison Byers and t
 COHEN--Howard. The Officers and Members of the Bronx Realty Advisory Board mourn the passing of a cherished Board member. The entire industry is indebted to Howard for his many contributions over the decades. Our heartfelt sympathy to Laura and the family. Michael Laub, President       
 KREEGER--Nathan, M.D. December 14, 1915-August 1, 2006. Son of the late Samuel and Esther Piven Kreeger, brother of Mildred Kreeger Frank and the late Julius Kreeger, dearly beloved husband of Doris Milman Kreeger, cherished father of Elizabeth Kreeger Goldman (James), adored grandfather of
 NEINSTEIN--Irving, passed away Sunday July 30, 2006 at age 94. He was the devoted husband of the late Faye Neinstein, the loving father of Raymond and grandfather of Adam. He was a sweet and gentle soul who will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved him.       
 PANKEN--Saul, passed away peacefully at age 83. Beloved husband of his predeceased wife Abby. Father of Andrew and Marcia (Miller) and grandfather of Brian, Sara, Alison, Lauren and Emily. A man of great wisdom and courage who will be missed by all who loved and respected him.       
 REITER--Herbert. 81. Passed away on July 31, 2006 in Virginia Beach, Virginia. Born and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He was a graduate of New York University. During World War II he served as a Navy Corpsman with the Fourth Marine Division. He relocated to Virginia Beach in 1975. He is sur
 THAU--Howard. Died at the age of 73 on July 31, 2006 in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Cheryl, and devoted father to John and Paul, and daughters-in-law Cyndi and Amy. Cherished by his three granddaughters Amanda, Emily and Layken. His memory will live on in those who knew and admired
 McCAFFREY--Raymond Michael, MD. We are deeply saddened by the passing our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Raymond Michael McCaffrey, a dedicated member of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at NewYorkPresbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center for more than 40 years. An exceptio
 SILBERMAN--Michael. The community of West End Synagogue a Reconstructionist Congregation regrets the loss of this thoughtful, artistically talented man. Our sympathies go to his family.       
 Besby Frank Holmes, a World War II ace who took his fighter plane fruitlessly to the air when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor but was finally able to pursue vengeance as part of the 1943 mission that brought the death of Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto, the architect of the attack, died July 23 in G
 Dr. Vincent P. Dole, who along with a young researcher who later became his wife did the studies proving that the synthetic drug methadone blocks the cravings of heroin addicts, died Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 93. The death was announced by Rockefeller University in Manhattan, whe
 Dr. James H. Jandl, a Harvard hematologist who helped explain the actions of red blood cells and later wrote an authoritative reference work on blood and blood disorders, died on July 17 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 80. His death was confirmed by his family. Dr. Jandl (pronoun
 BRADY--Paul R., of Malverne, formerly of Manhasset, suddenly on July 30, 2006 in his 42nd year. Beloved husband of 8 years to Lisa Hambertson-Brady. Loving son of Frank A. Brady Jr. and the late Helen Ryan Brady. Dear brother of Patricia Duffy (Stephen), Barbara Pierce (Jeffrey), and Frank 
 HWANG--Col. Hsiung-Sheng, Passed away on Tuesday August 2, 2006. He was born in Ch'ang-Bai, Manchuria in Northern China on March 26, 1917 and his native home was Chung-Ming, Shanghi. After 35 years of military service and 14 years of diplomatic service to the Republic of China he retired an
 LEIBOWITT--S. David of Palm Beach, FL, died peacefully on July 31 while vacationing at West End, NJ. He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1912 and grew up in Long Branch, NJ. He graduated from Lehigh University in 1933 and received a law degree from Harvard University three years later. From 1938
 LEVY--David, former New York State Supreme Court Justice, passed away on Wednesday, August 2, at his residence in Pompton Plains, NJ. He was 79 years old. Born April 22, 1927, in New York, David had a distinguished legal career. Prior to becoming a judge, he was a solo practitioner for more
 PANKEN--Saul, passed away peacefully at age 83. Beloved husband of his predeceased wife Abby. Father of Andrew and Marcia (Miller) and grandfather of Brian, Sara, Alison, Lauren and Emily. A man of great wisdom and courage who will be missed by all who loved and respected him.       
 REITER--Herbert. 81. Passed away on July 31, 2006 in Virginia Beach, Virginia. Born and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He was a graduate of New York University. During World War II he served as a Navy Corpsman with the Fourth Marine Division. He relocated to Virginia Beach in 1975. He is sur
 SCHAPER--Armin, died peacefully at his home in Harrison, NY with his cherished wife of 58 years, Ethel (Adelson) and his beloved son and daughter, Douglas and Elizabeth, at his side. Born in 1918, he became Senior VP of the Sara Lee Corporation, which bought his family's business, Delson Ca
 SCHULTZ--Sir Milton, PSR. Members of Grand Lodge, Knights of Pythias, NY mourn the loss of a vital Brother. We extend condolences to his wife Ruth and family.       
 SIMRING--Noah. The Horace Mann School is in deep anguish at the tragic passing of its cherished student Noah Simring '03. A charismatic, principled, iconoclastic student, he was respected and admired by all who knew him. An active member of the HM community he greatly contributed to the lif
 SOHLBERG--Russell(aka Eric Russell). 82, died July 27,2006 from complications following a fall. Actor and dancer, was loved in the NYC Downtown modern dance and theater community. He danced with luminaries: Jose Limon, Martha Graham. Born in Schenectady on March 24, 1924 to Eric G. and Marg
 WAHL--Edward L., on August 2, 2006, at age 84. Beloved husband of Florence Miller and the late Marian Marcus Wahl. Loving father of Ellen (Mercer Sullivan) and doting grandfather of Laura and Meg. Edward Wahl was born in 1922 in Newark, the son of a physician and a teacher. A salesman by pr
 WHITE--Joe David, Aged 74 of Grand Rapids, Michigan, formerly of Staten Island, died Saturday, July 29, 2006. He is survived by his children, Bradford White of Norfolk, VA, Craig (Lynne) White, DO of Grand Rapids, Pam (John) Fleming of Buffalo, NY; brother, John (Patricia) White of Ft. Myer
 ZIMET--Alvin (Al), of Cortlandt Manor, NY, died at age 77 on August 1st, 2006 at his home after a long illness. Born in Manhattan, he was a proud graduate of Baruch College. In 1972, the family moved to the house he helped design in Cortlandt. Al worked in sales promotion and advertising wi
 AKDAG--Erdal, a prominent graphic designer and teacher, passed away peacefully in his native Istanbul on July 28, 2006. He was 77. His colleagues at Kass Uehling and many friends in the US and abroad will warmly remember Erdal for his extraordinary talent, kind heart and gentle spirit. We w
 COOPER--Daniel Isaac, 80. Beloved father, grandfather, husband and brother died Thursday in Cambridge, MA following a heart attack. He is a 1946 graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he earned a Ph.D. in nuclear physics in 1952. He later served as managing editor of Nu
 DOLE--Vincent P., M.D. We often jostled over the state of the art in responding to the mounting addiction crises, yet very early on we found it so very difficult to overlook the caring physician in Vince Dole. He genuinely grieved over the plight of this town's young caught up in the mad wh
 GODSICK--Steven Jay, passed away August 1, 2006 in Santa Monica, CA. Beloved husband of the late Jane R. Godsick. Loving and caring father of Jeffrey and his wife Pam, Christopher and his wife Lisa. Cherished Pops of Griffin, Samantha, Emily, Trevor, Sean, Amy and Kelli. Loving brother of P
 HWANG--Col. Hsiung-Sheng, Passed away on Tuesday August 2, 2006. He was born in Ch'ang-Bai, Manchuria in Northern China on March 26, 1917 and his native home was Chung-Ming, Shanghai. After 35 years of military service and 14 years of diplomatic service to the Republic of China he retired a
 KREEGER--Dr. Nathan. The Lang and Milman families celebrate the extraordinary life of Nat Kreeger. We willmiss him.       
 LEVY--David. The Board and Staff of KHCC mourn the recent death of David Levy, former NYS Supreme Court Justice and Counsel to KHCC. With his late wife Diane, David was part of the Center since its inception & will be greatly missed. D. Harris, Chairperson C. Shayne, Exec. Director       
 SCHAPER--Armin, died peacefully at his home in Harrison, NY with his cherished wife of 58 years, Ethel (Adelson) and his beloved son and daughter, Douglas and Elizabeth, at his side. Born in 1918, he became Senior VP of the Sara Lee Corporation, which bought his family's business, Delson Ca
 SIEGEL--Al. Died on August 3, 2006 having lived a long and wonderful life. To the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of Our Hearts. Loving and caring Dad to daughters Suzanne and Roberta, and sons-in-law Mort and Gary. Gramps to grandsons Steven, Jeff, Adam and Todd, and grand-daughters
 SLIFKIN--Irving. A very special man, died at the age of 84, on July 31st, at Greenwich Hospital, after a long fight with Parkinson's disease. His great loves were his wife of 54 years, Judi, his family, the law, public service, boating and the Michigan football team. A graduate of the Unive
 MECHANIC--Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''And until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand.''       
 Arthur Lee, the leader of Love, a pioneering 1960's psychedelic rock band, died on Thursday in Memphis. He was 61. The cause was complications of leukemia, said Mark Linn, his manager. With eccentric songs that joined the jangly guitars of folk-rock with urgent, angry rhythm
 Elden Auker, a leading pitcher in the 1930's and early 40's whose submarine-style delivery helped the Detroit Tigers capture two American League pennants and a World Series championship, died yesterday morning in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 95. He died of congestive heart failure, said his son,
 Harold Ronk, the stentorian-voiced ringmaster who sang ''Welcome to the Circus!'' at the start of thousands of Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey performances for 30 years, died on Wednesday in Canton, Ohio. Mr. Ronk, the circus's first singing ringmaster, was 85. His death was a
 Jason Rhoades, the Los Angeles sculptor who garnered international renown for his audacious, wildly diversified, morally provocative installations, died suddenly on Tuesday after being taken ill at his home. He was 41. The cause was heart failure, said Mr. Rhoades's New York galleri
 BELL--Harrison. ''Hap,'' 81, died on July 18, 2006. A Cornell U. graduate, he served in WWII and in Korea. In 1948, Hap married Martha Louise Denton. An eclectic reader, sportsman, and amateur musician, Hap lived a life of compassion and service to others. For information: Jordan Fernald Fu
 COHEN--Howard Seymour. Born August 27, 1936, passed away Tuesday, August 1, 2006. Howard, C.P.M., had been president of H.S.C. Management Corp. since its inception in 1977. His many affiliations included: Board of Director Bronx Realty Advisory Board Inc.; The National Association of Real E
 DOLE--Vincent P. His brilliance and inspiration in recognition of the utility of long acting methadone to regularize the narcotic status of opiate addicts led to profound behavioral improvements, unlikely if left to standard treatment. Health improved and lives were saved. The ''metabolic d
 GELLMAN--Howard J. July 24th, 2006. Beloved brother of Gloria and Robert. Cherished son of the late Archie and Diana. He will be forever remembered by those whose lives he touched and by the countless others whose lives he saved. (Friends of Bill) $(6$)GELLMAN--Howard J.Darling Broz
 KATZ--Eli, Yiddish scholar, age 77, died July 22 in Berkeley, CA. from a stroke. Born and raised in Brooklyn, CCNY graduate, he led the Yiddish Department at UC Berkeley. Beloved husband, father and teacher.       
 MARKOWITZ--Irwin S. 78, died July 31, 2006, in NJ, surrounded by his family. He was a 1949 graduate of the University of Wisconsin and the Harvard Law School (1952). He practiced law in Bergen County for 50 years. He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Geri M. Markowitz, and three daughter
 SIEGEL--Abe. 83 years old, while vacationing in New Mexico. Abe would say, ''not to worry,'' and that it had been a great run. He did indeed have a long and rich life. Husband, father, grandfather and uncle, he adored his family. Abe also loved the practice of law and worked as an attorney 
 SIEGEL--Al. Died on August 3, 2006 having lived a long and wonderful life. To the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of Our Hearts. Loving and caring Dad to daughters Suzanne and Roberta, and sons-in-law Mort and Gary. Gramps to grandsons Steven, Jeff, Adam and Todd, and grand-daughters
 SLIFKIN--Irving. A very special man, died at the age of 84, on July 31st, at Greenwich Hospital, after a long fight with Parkinson's disease. His great loves were his wife of 54 years, Judi, his family, the law, public service, boating and the Michigan football team. A graduate of the Unive
 STARRING--Mason B. 3rd. Aug. 3 in Tucson, Ariz. Early member of the OSS in Second World War. Awarded the Croix de Guerre for operating behind enemy lines in France; Bronze Star for heroism in China. Joined CIA; Briefed Ike. Partner in Dominick and Dominick, Wall Street. Started Mason B. Sta
 WELDON--Clarence S. , retired professor of Cardiothoracic Surgery at Washington University in St. Louis died on July 17, 2006 of renal failure in San Francisco, CA. He was 77 years old. Dr. Weldon was born in Mt. Joy, Pennsylvania in 1929. He received an A.B from the University of Michigan 
 TUTTLEMAN--Stanley C. August 3, 2006. Husband of Edna (nee Shanis). Father of Jan Tuttleman, Steven Tuttleman (Elizabeth), David Tuttleman, S. Zev Guber (Heidi) and Carol Guber. Also survived by 10 grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to memorial services Tuesday, 7 PM at Temple
 WEINBERGER -- Sidney B. The entire staff of Goldstick, Weinberger, Feldman & Grossman, P.C. mark the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Sidney B. Weinberger, Esq. Sidney was a founding member of the firm, a fine lawyer and a kind and generous person. Our thoughts are with his fam
 Murray Bookchin, a writer, teacher and activist who began his political odyssey as a Communist, became an anarchist and then metamorphosed into an influential theorist on ecology, died July 30 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 85. The cause was complications of a malfunctioning 
 ACORN--David P., died August 3, 2006. A graduate of the Hotchkiss School and Harvard University, he was a retired Director at McKinsey & Co. Contact: Cassidy-Flynn Funeral Home, Inc. 914 - 666 - 4840. www.cassidy flynnfuneralhome.com       
 CORT--John. Aged 92 years, of Nahant, Massachusetts. August 3, 2006. Cort was a journalist, labor organizer, associate of Dorothy Day at the Catholic Worker and editor for Commonweal in New York, Peace Corps pioneer, and for more than 60 years at the center of progressive social movements i
 CUNNINGHAM--Paul A. Of West Street, Attleboro, MA, on August 3, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Ruth (Woelfel) Cunningham. Loving father of Bridget Cunningham of Bridgeport, CT, Paul J. Cunningham and his wife Jennifer Joaquin of South Portland, ME, and the late Walter King Cunningham. Br
 FISHER--Richard L. The Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center greatly mourn the passing of Richard L. Fisher, a cherished and longtime member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. Our dear friend was a distinguished philanthropist and senior partner of Fisher Brothers, one of New Yo
 GODSICK--Steven Jay. It is with great sadness that the Trustees and staff of the New York City Police Foundation mourn the passing of our longtime friend, Steve. He brought wise counsel, diligent work and much laughter to our office. We will sorely miss him. Our thoughts are with the entire
 GREENE--Richard T. Sr. 93, born in Charleston, South Carolina, passed away on August 3, 2006, at his home in Brooklyn, New York. Under his leadership as president and director of Harlem's Carver Federal Savings Bank from 1969-1995, it became the largest black banking institution in the coun
 KORNREICH--Fred. On August 5, 2006. Mourned by family and many friends. He shall be remembered for his great sense of humor and immence generosity to Jewish causes. Services were previously held.       
 LEVITT--V. David. We have lost a very dear friend and will always remember our many years together and the wonderful the times we shared. Our love and thoughts are with Edy, Valerie and Mark, Ondrea and Jason, their children and all their family. David courageously fought to live. May he no
 O'ROURKE --James F.X., M.D. on August 4, 2006. Age 86. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn Cooke. Loving father of thirteen children and spouses, James and Nancy O'Rourke, Colleen and Loren Kensinger, Brian and Nancy O'Rourke, Kathy and Jim Rittinger, Kevin and Chris O'Rourke, Eileen and Wil
 SIEGAL--Yoni. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn the loss of Yoni Siegal and extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Yonina, three children, Avi, Zevi and Yehuda, and his extended family. May they be comforted among th
 LICHTENSTEIN--Stephen G., 64, of Virginia Beach, VA, died Saturday, August 5, 2006. He is survived by his wife Pamela, son Jonathan, and sister Ilynne. He was a writer, pilot, and training consultant for AT&T, the EDO Corporation, and the U.S. Navy, and co-owner of Asteriques jewelry store.
 Richard L. Fisher, a real estate developer who supported philanthropic causes ranging from law enforcement to animal welfare to helping the families of American soldiers, died on Saturday in Manhattan, a family spokesman said. He was 65 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause of d
 David Levy, a leader of the reform wing of the New York Democratic Party who ran unsuccessfully in 1962 against the party's Bronx boss, Representative Charles A. Buckley, died on Wednesday at his home in Pompton Lakes, N.J. He was 79. The cause was a stroke, his son Paul said.      
 COLLINS--Fred. A very special person. A prince among men. Dana and Edwin Schulman $(6$)COLLINS--Fred, on August 5th, 2006. My husband, the love of my life for more than 40 years. Loving father of Elisabeth and Van. Adored stepfather of Vicki Haupt and the late Steven Haupt. You were the bes
 FAULKNER--Alice W. The members and staff of the Hillsboro Club mourn the passing of Alice W. Faulkner, beloved wife of our esteemed past President and Chairman, Avery C. Faulkner. We extend our deepest sympathy to Avery, his children and grandchildren. Elizabeth B. Ketner, Chairman       
 FISHER--Richard L. Richard, you were such a large part of our lives. We will never forget our wonderful times together. We will miss you deeply and extend our condolences to the entire Fisher family. Love, Barbara and Parviz $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The community of the Eagle HIll School of 
 FOGARTY--John Joseph. With great sadness, The Buckley School of New York City announces the death of our beloved Latin teacher, Jack Fogarty. He died on Saturday, August 5th, and, according to his wishes, his funeral was held immediatlely thereafter. An alumnus of Catholic University, Mr. F
 KORNREICH--Fred. Hebrew Free Burial Association re-cords with profound sorrow the passing of Fred Kornreich, our esteemed past President and Board member. May his dedication and hard work on behalf of HFBA serve as an inspiration to all. Andrew Feinman, President Amy Koplow, Exec. Director 
 LASCHER--Alan. A very special man, your the legacy will continue to live through your children and grandchildren. Barbara and Jeffrey London $(6$)LASCHER--Alan A. Devoted husband, loving father and adoring grandfather was deeply loved and will be missed every day and forever by wife Amy, so
 LEVITT--V.David.You showed us how truly wonderful, caring, thoughtful and courageous you were in the midst of adversity. For that, we will always be grateful. Our love goes out to Edy, Valerie (Mark), Ondrea (Jason). Rest in peace, David. Bob & Jane $(6$)LEVITT --V. David. What an inspirati
 O'ROURKE--James F.X., M.D. The Department of Ophthalmology of New York Medical College/The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary notes with deep sadness the death of its estemeed Vice Chair and Professor, Dr. James F.X. O'Rourke, who was a role model for several generations of residents and attend
 POSTEL--Hon. George. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Hon. George Postel. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know no further sorrow. $(6$)POSTEL--George, Sutton Place Synagogue extend
 SEFTON--Robert Browne. Died August 5, survived by his wife, Isabel, three children, Julia, Ann, Timothy, and five grandchildren. Mass St. Boniface, Sea Cliff, August 9, at 10 AM. In lieu of flowers: the Calvary Hospital, or the Heifer Foundation       
 SEROTTA--Harry. It is with great sadness that the staff of Schechter & Brucker, PC mourn the passing of our great friend. He was a wonderful father to his daughter Robin and his son-in-law Howard, and to those of us who were lucky enough to have known him. Our thoughts are with the entire S
 HAVLICEK--Franklin J. of Chevy Chase, Maryland and New York City. Whose energy, intellect and spirit of generosity, touched everyone who knew him. Died suddenly on August 4, 2006. Frank was the loving and caring husband of Louise and devoted and cherished father of Lee and Ray and loving so
 KRINSKY--Josephine B. The Board of Trustees and University Leadership Council of Antioch University extend their deepest condolences to Robert Krinsky and his wife Carol on the loss of his mother, Josephine Bachrach Krinsky. Bob is a member of the Antioch College class of 1951. In lieu of f
 Dr. James F. X. O'Rourke, an eye surgeon who, never content with medicine alone, followed an unlikely career path that took him from singing and playing football to leading the city of Yonkers and the Westchester County Republican Party, died on Friday in the Bronx. He was 86 and lived in S
 John L. Weinberg, a senior investment banker who ran Goldman Sachs from 1976 to 1990 and who was part of a family dynasty that has been at the firm since 1907, died Monday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 81. The cause was complications from a fall two weeks ago, said Peter Rose, a spokes
 Kevin Terpstra, a partner in the trend-setting Greenwich Village home design store Mxyplyzyk, died last Wednesday at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 48. The cause was liver failure, said Kevin Brynan, his business partner. Over the last 14 years, Mxyplyzyk has become a
 ATCHLEY--Dr. John Adams, 86, esteemed psychiatrist and counselor, died Monday. He is survived by his beloved wife Trish Walker, his beloved brother Bill, his sons and their wives, John Jr. And Linda, and Peter and Ruth, their mother, Martha Atchley, and his granDchildren Samantha, John III,
 COHEN--Stanley. A treasured and wonderful family friend for over sixty years. His friendship and wisdom will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife, Mercy. Florence Gardner Herbert Isaacs Lenore Freeman       
 FISHER--Richard L. We were blessed to share your wisdom, philosophy, and moments of personal happiness. The family has lost a great leader and great uncle, but your strong spirit and inner strength will endure.With Love, Eric and Ken Schulman $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The partners and
 LEVITT--David. Our dear lifelong cherished friend. You will be in our hearts forever. Our deepest love to Edy, Valerie, Mark, Ondi, Jason, & the family. -Bonnie & Marty $(6$)LEVITT--V.David. We have lost a great brother/brotherin-law. His courage, integrity, and loyalty was an inspi
 SCHOUELA - Ezekiel. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Ezekiel Schouela. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Cely, and their family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secreta
 Richard T. Greene Sr., who for 30 years was the president and a director of the Carver Federal Savings Bank, which he built into the country's largest African-American financial institution, died at his home in Brooklyn last Thursday. He was 93. The cause was heart failure, his daug
 James A. Van Allen, the physicist who made the first major scientific discovery of the early space age, the Earth-circling radiation belts that bear his name, and sent spacecraft instruments to observe the outer reaches of the solar system, died yesterday in Iowa City. He was 91. Th
 BERGREN--Gaylan C. 71, died on July 27, 2006. Husband of Patricia Bohm-Bergren of Pound Ridge NY; father of Kristen, Erik and Elizabeth; brother of Glory Ann Kurtz and brother-in-law of Elizabeth Bohm Schroeder. A prominent architect of residential, public and corporate buildings, including
 BROD--Herbert E. On August 8, 2006 at the age of 87. Devoted husband of the late Evelyn. Caring father, stepfather, grandfather and great grandfather. World War II veteran (Europe), CCNY '42 B, enjoyed a long career in the printing industry and was an active leader in both local and nationa
 DANSKER--Jerome. Gold berg Weprin & Ustin LLP mourns the passing of our friend and client, and the dean of New York's real estate community, Jerome Dansker. Jerry was a selfmade man, rising from real estate holdings and a lending business to Chairman of the highly successful Intervest Natio
 FISHER--Richard L. Heartfelt condolences to Kristen and the Fisher family. An inspiration to all whom he touched. He will be missed. Stuart White, Pres. and CEO Stuart White Productions $(6$)FISHER--Richard L. The Board of the American Friends of The Churchill Museum at the Cabinet 
 HEICKLEN--Lewis Hadas sah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the loss of Lewis Heicklen, of Bala Cynwyd, PA, at the age of 101, a major donor and beloved father of Jane Zolot, a long-time member of the National Board. Mr. Heicklen and his wife, the late Betty Payes Heickle
 MASSEE--William Edman. Age 87, died at his home in Santa Fe, NM, on August 5, 2006. Massee, a writer and poet wrote on wine, food and design. He is survived by his son John Massee and granddaughter Meira Petersen.       
 RIECKER--Charles. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our dear friend and colleague Charles Riecker, a valued member of our artistic and technical staffs from 1959-1997. A close friend to many of our artists, Charlie will be remembered for his kindness and warmth to all. We extend ou
 TIFFT--Henry Neville, 78. Of Marion, MA. and Vero Beach, FL, August 8 in Marion after a short illness. He was the husband of Suzanne McCarter Tifft. Born and raised in NYC and Quogue, L.I. New York, he was the son of the late Elizabeth (Taylor) and Henry Neville Tifft. Mr. Tifft had a long 
 WEINBERG--John L. The Board and Staff of the Greater New York Councils , Boy Scouts of America mourns the passing of John L. Weinberg, our long time friend and generous supporter. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. He will be missed. John C. Whitehead, Chairman John F
 BHATTACHARJI--Pares C. On August 5, 2006. Beloved husband of Arati, and father of Sandip. He first came to the United States in 1947 as a graduate student and after returning to India for several years, moved to New York City permanently in 1958. He worked for the New York City Planning Com
 BIRCKHEAD--Godfrey. 77, of Indialantic passed away on August 2, 2006 at his residence. He moved backed to Florida 3 years ago form Richmond, Va. He was in the investment business for 55 years and currently a securities analyst for S.B.K. Brooks in Cleveland, Ohio. He is survived by his wife
 James Harvey Young, a social historian of American medicine who wrote engaging studies of fraud, dubious cures and health quackery and later chronicled the birth of federal food regulation, died July 29 in Atlanta. He was 90. The cause was complications of a stroke, his family said.
 CRAIG--John Anthony, Esq. Of Hawthorne, NY. Died August 9, 2006. He passed away peacefully at home, after a courageous battle with cancer. ''Jack'' was 77 years old. Visitation: Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY August 11th 2-4 and 7-9pm. A funeral mass in celebration of Jack's life a
 DANSKER--Jerome. Gold berg Weprin & Ustin LLP mourns the passing of our friend and client, and the dean of New York's real estate community, Jerome Dansker. Jerry was a selfmade man, rising from real estate holdings and a lending business to Chairman of the highly successful Intervest Natio
 HERTER--Richard Eric. Born August 13th, 1962 died August 10th, 2006. Beloved son, brother, uncle and dear friend. Showed exceptional strength and courage in his battle against a relentless disease. It was a reflection on how he lived his life. A fine musician, and a fierce competitor on the
 HICKEY--Francis (Frank) G. 79, of Scottsdale, AZ, passed away after a long illness on August 9, 2006. He was born in Stevens Point, WI on August 9, 1927. Frank was successful as both a businessman and as a philanthropist. In business, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Gen
 JACOBSEN--Robert A. Of Charlotte, NC, formerly of Lynbrook peacefully passed away at his home with his family by his side on Monday, August 7, 2006 at the age of 66. Bob served as a high school math teacher in the Lynbrook Public School system, retiring in 1995 after 33 years. He took great
 JONES--Douglas. On August 9th, 2006, at his home in East Hampton, Long Island, New York. He graduated Princeton University and Harvard Law School. He retired as a senior partner from the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley, McCloy. At his death, Doug was the treasurer of Empire State Pride A
 KUSHINSKY--David L. Of Edison, NJ on August 9 at age 83. Husband of Jeanne, father of Seth and Gail, brother of Ralph, grandfather of Genna, Alex and Jackie. Predeceased by his brother Martin. WWII Army veteran and real estate developer.       
 WEINBERG--John L., on August 7th, 2006. Beloved husband of Sue Ann, loving father of John S. Weinberg and Jean Weinberg Rose, treasured grandfather of Annie, Peter and Jack Weinberg and Johnny and Emily Rose, devoted brother of Sidney J. Weinberg, Jr. His warmth, humor and wisdom will be mi
 WOLF--Howard. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Howard Wolf and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Arline and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Liz Kislik, President       
 JOVANOVITCH--Stevan. 86, of Rome, NY, beloved husband of Mirjana and father of Milena and Dagan. A retired engineer, he suvived four years in a German prisoner of war camp during WWII. He leaves us with cherished memories of his grace, wit and courage.       
 MITTELSTADT--Charles Anthony on August 9th, 2006. Age 88. Beloved husband of Angelica. Adored father of Charles, Jr., Monica (deceased) and Simone. Devoted grandfather of Alexa Prounis, Christopher, Matthew Mailman. Memorial service to be held on August 16th, from 3-5pm at The American Yach
 Richard Mock, a painter and sculptor whose interest in politics led to a second career as an editorial cartoonist, died on July 28 in Brooklyn, where he lived. He was 61. His death followed a long illness, said his companion, Roberta Waddell, curator of prints at the New York Public
 Robert L. McCullough, who changed the civil rights movement by choosing to work on a roadside chain gang rather than pay a $100 fine after his arrest in 1961 for asking to be served at a whites-only lunch counter in South Carolina, died Monday in Rock Hill, S.C. He was 64. Samuel Re
 Alvin Cooperman, whose entertainment achievements included holding high posts at the Shubert Organization, at Madison Square Garden and at NBC television as well as producing on his own, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was complications of a severe case of shingles
 Duke Jordan, a pianist whose work with the saxophonist Charlie Parker endures in the jazz canon, died on Tuesday in Valby, Denmark, a suburb of Copenhagen. He was 84, and he had lived in self-imposed exile from the United States since 1978, continuing to perform in the musical tradition he 
 Joel W. Hedgpeth, a marine biologist and an environmental advocate who became an early voice for the rich diversity of plants and animals living along California's coastline, died on July 28 in Hillsboro, Ore. He was 94. His death was confirmed by his family. Dr. Hedgpeth st
 Mike Douglas, the genial television host whose afternoon talk show was a beacon of popular culture in the 1960's and 70's, died yesterday in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. His death came on his birthday, a generation after his irony-free broadcast style began to pass from the screen. He was 81.  
 BROWN--Robert. Of Manhattan, age 82, on August 11, 2006. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Lise and Jason. Adoring grandfather of Lesley and Matthew. Devoted brother of the late Thelma. Memorial service Sunday, August 13th at 2PM at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenu
 MILLER--William C. , Sr., 70, died at Stamford Hospital Thursday August 10, 2006, husband of Barbara R. Miller of Stamford, CT. He was still active as a Stock Broker with UBS of New York, NY for forty years. A Memorial Service will be held on Sunday August 13, 2006 at First Presbyterian Chu
 ROSENTHAL--Paul M. Of New York City on August 10, 2006. Beloved son of the late Joseph & Bettina Rosenthal. He leaves behind his loving and devoted wife Evelyn (Evie), his loving daughter Lisa, son-in-law Bruce Weiser and daughter Chris Smith. ''Poppy'' Paul will be missed terribly by his t
 DONNER--Aaron, Furniture designer of New Canaan, CT passed away peacefully onSunday August 6th at Yale New Haven Hospital after a long illness. Loving husband of Christine Powers Donner, devoted father to Olivia Donner. His talent, energy and good heart will be sorely missed. His search for
 FISHER--Richard. The leadership and staff of the Continuum Center for Health and Healing (CCHH) of Beth Israel Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our magnanimous supporter, Richard Fisher, son of our dear friend and benefactress, Emily Fisher Landau. Mr. Fisher and his mother g
 HALPERN -- Herbert (Hen noch), 90, of Harrison, NY, on August 11, 2006. Husband of Gittl. Father of Debby (Erick) and Ann (Ernie). Grandfather of David, Avi and Joshua. We thank Ela, Hepta and Ania for their loving care. He lived a full, caring, productive life.       
 HERTER--Richard Eric. Born August 13th, 1962 died August 10th, 2006. Beloved son, brother, uncle and dear friend. Showed exceptional strength and courage in his battle against a relentless disease. It was a reflection on how he lived his life. A fine musician, and a fierce competitor on the
 HICKEY--Frank G., former CEO of General Instrument, died on August 9, in Santa Monica, CA. He is survived by daughter Stephanie. For more than three decades Dad supported efforts to extend life and alleviate suffering including the research of Dr. Robert Jarvik and the humanitarian work of 
 KAYE -Robert E., M.D., on August 10, 2006. Born on March 8, 1938, to Etta and Abraham Kaye. Graduate of Horace Mann, Princeton University and The University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Beloved father of Anthony, Hilary and Andrew. Devoted brother to Michael and uncle to Elizabeth. Lovin
 LESHER--John Lee Jr. Of Greenwich, CT. passed away suddenly on August 8th, 2006. Born in Harrisburg, Pa in 1934 to John Lee and Mary Alice (Watkeys) Lesher, Jack was a Greenwich, CT. resident for the last 30 years. He is survived by his three children from his first marriage, John David, Ja
 PAIGE--Samuel. 91, on August 12. Beloved husband of Norma; loving father of Holly Russek (Michael), Madelyn Givant (Stephen), and the late Martin Paige (Naomi); proud grandfather of Rebecca, Evan, Corey, Megan, Joshua and Kimberly; adoring great-grandfather of Brady, Kayla, and Logan. A lif
 RIECKER--Charles. The Board of Directors and the singers of the Schuyler Foundation for Career Bridges mourn the tragic loss of our beloved friend and member, Charles Riecker. Charlie has been a vital part of our foundation from its inception. His mentoring, caring, and love shown to all of
 RIECKER--Charles J. 72, on August 9, 2006 of Manhattan and the Catskill Mountains. Beloved husband of Wally for 39 years. Loving brother of James and uncle of numerous nieces, great nieces, nephews and great nephews. After being with the Metropolitan Opera from 1959 to 1997, he took an earl
 RIESER--Charles M. On August 9, 2006 in Kennebunk, ME at the age of 89. Born in Hoboken, NJ served his country during WWII in North Africa with American Field Service. He worked in Manhattan as a business reporter for Fortune and other journals. Survived by sons Christopher, Nicholas, Timot
 ROSENTHAL--Paul M. Of New York City on August 10, 2006. Beloved son of the late Joseph & Bettina Rosenthal. He leaves behind his loving and devoted wife Evelyn (Evie), his loving daughter Lisa, son-in-law Bruce Weiser and daughter Chris Smith. ''Poppy'' Paul will be missed terribly by his t
 SHUMAN--Norman, 85. Father of Audrey, Wendy and Jane. Father-in-law of Bruce and Patty. Beloved grandfather of Florence, Andrew and David. He never gave up his hopes and dreams. Donations may be made to Sarah Neuman Center, Mamaroneck, NY.       
 SIEGAL--Yoni (Jonathan), 44, of Riverdale, NY, suddenly on Friday night, August 4th, 2006, 11 Av. Profoundly beloved husband and best friend of Yonina Siegal, adoring and adored Daddy of Avi, Zevi and Yehuda. Much loved son of Jerry and Rosalind, and dearest brother of Linda, Debbie (David)
 VEGA--Jose. Died July 2, 2006, at home, in East Hampton, at age 85. Jose worked 70 years in the performing arts and was associated with over 100 Broadway productions. He leaves a wife, Ruth Victoria Vandyke Vega; daughter, Leslie Butler Millspaugh; and granddaughter Yancy Butler.       
 WEINBERG--John L., on August 7th, 2006. Beloved husband of Sue Ann, loving father of John S. Weinberg and Jean Weinberg Rose, treasured grandfather of Annie, Peter and Jack Weinberg and Johnny and Emily Rose, devoted brother of Sidney J. Weinberg, Jr. His warmth, humor and wisdom will be mi
 Rufus Harley, who was billed as ''the world's first jazz bagpiper'' and emitted his haunting sounds alongside some of the greats of jazz, died on Aug. 1 in Philadelphia, his hometown. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, his son Messiah Patton Harley said. Although Mr. 
 Ken Richmond, the 6-foot-5, ripple-armed wrestler who for decades was seen striking the gong that heralded the opening credits for dozens of films produced by the J. Arthur Rank Studio in England, died on Aug. 3 at his home in Christchurch, on England's south coast. He was 80. The c
 Moacir Santos, a Brazilian jazz composer whose six decades of music were rediscovered and celebrated in Brazil and the United States only in the last five years, died on Sunday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 80. The cause was complications of a stroke, said Richard Zirinsky of Adventure
 COOPERMAN--Alvin. Dear Dad and Gramps, thank you for sharing your passion for New York City and its home teams, your delight in the written, read, sung, and spoken word and your appreciation of all those you held dear. Your legacy is in our care. With our love, Neil, Karen and Max $
 DEL CORRAL--Victor. 84, of Miami, originally from Guanabacoa, Habana, Cuba, passed away August 11, 2006. He was a charismatic businessman, whose namesake restaurant, Victor's Cafe, became a cultural icon in New York City. He is suvived by his loving wife, Eloina, beloved daughter Sonia Zald
 GIBBONS--John Martin Jr., an obstetrician and gynecologist, died recently surrounded by his cherished and loving family in Hartford, Connecticut. He was 73. The cause of death was cancer. Dr. Gibbons was a leader and advocate of women's health. He was President of the American College of Ob
 LAWRENCE--John S. Died on August 12, 2006, at age 97. Devoted husband of Florence for 69 years. Beloved father of Jim Lawrence and Betsy Pinover Schiff. Adoring grandfather of Justin Lawrence. Father-in-law of Helene Lawrence and Edward L. Schiff. A proud and optimistic man who came from hu
 PAIGE--Samuel. 91, on August 12. Beloved husband of Norma; loving father of Holly Russek (Michael), Madelyn Givant (Stephen), and the late Martin Paige (Naomi); proud grandfather of Rebecca, Evan, Corey, Megan, Joshua and Kimberly; adoring great-grandfather of Brady, Kayla, and Logan. A lif
 RIECKER--Charles J. 72, on August 9, 2006 of Manhattan and the Catskill Mountains. Beloved husband of Wally for 39 years. Loving brother of James and uncle of numerous nieces, great nieces, nephews and great nephews. After being with the Metropolitan Opera from 1959 to 1997, he took an earl
 SHUMAN--Norman, 85. Father of Audrey, Wendy and Jane. Father-in-law of Bruce and Patty. Beloved grandfather of Florence, Andrew and David. He never gave up his hopes and dreams. Donations may be made to Sarah Neuman Center, Mamaroneck, NY.       
 SIEGAL--Yoni (Jonathan), 44, of Riverdale, NY, suddenly on Friday night, August 4th, 2006, 11 Av. Profoundly beloved husband and best friend of Yonina Siegal, adoring and adored Daddy of Avi, Zevi and Yehuda. Much loved son of Jerry and Rosalind, and dearest brother of Linda, Debbie (David)
 William Edman Massee, one of the first American wine writers in the post-World War II era, died on Aug. 5 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 87. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his son, John. Mr. Massee was a prolific writer, and much of his work in the 1950's, 60's 
 Joel W. Harnett, a businessman and civic watchdog who finished last in the Democratic primary for mayor of New York City in 1977, but fueled debate by helping to force the release of a federal investigative report on questionable financial manipulations by city leaders, died on Aug. 11 at h
 John L. Bull, a largely self-taught ornithologist and educator whose definitive guidebooks to New York State birds led a generation of birders into the woods, died on Friday in Queens. He was 92. Mr. Bull's death was confirmed by his family. A research assistant at the Ameri
 Julio Galán, a provocative Neo-Expressionist Mexican painter, died on Aug. 4 en route back to his home in Monterrey, Mexico. He was 46. Mr. Galán suffered a brain hemorrhage while staying in Zacatecas, in central Mexico, and died on the plane that was taking him back to Monterrey,
 COLLIS--Charles, a retired Fairchild Industries executive, died Sunday, August 13, 2006, after an extended struggle with cancer. Mr. Collis was born in Brooklyn, New York on August 6, 1920. He was 86 years old. He moved to Babylon, New York, graduated from Babylon High School and Brown Univ
 GORDON--Barry, Dr. of East Rockaway, Long Island passed away from brain cancer on August 13, 2006. Beloved husband of Joan (Lentol) and father of Brad, Leon, Marcy and step-father of Lisa. He is also survived by grandchildren, Elizabeth, Andrew, Christopher, Sydney, Benjamin, Lindsey and Ai
 HARTENSTEIN--Hans, MD. Longtime pediatrician, age 83, died August 12 after a brief illness. Born Vienna, Austria, came to the U.S. in 1938. Resided in Syracuse, NY, with beloved wife of 55 years, Mary Louise. Adoring father of Annie and Julie. Proud father-in-law of Robert Cox and John Meye
 JONES--Douglas. The Board of Directors, staff, clients and volunteers of Gay Men's Health Crisis send heartfelt condolences to our esteemed former president, Louis Bradbury, on the death of his beloved partner, Douglas Jones.       
 LAWRENCE--John S. Died on August 12, 2006, at age 97. Devoted husband of Florence for 69 years. Beloved father of Jim Lawrence and Betsy Pinover Schiff. Adoring grandfather of Justin Lawrence. Father-in-law of Helene Lawrence and Edward L. Schiff. A proud and optimistic man who came from hu
 TANCREDI--Skylar Sonn. He was a resident of Hastingson-Hudson, NY. He passed away Saturday August 12, 2006 at the age of fourteen as a result of a tragic accident. Skylar was the beloved son of Dr. Heidi Sonn and Louis Tancredi. Skylar is also survived by his adoring sister Siena and idoliz
 WIENER--Marvin, 70, passed away Saturday, August 12. He is survived by his beloved wife Barbara, brother-in-law Dick Richards, and his wife Hilke Richards, his niece and three nephews, his cousins Elinor and Doreen. He was Founder, Chairman, and CEO of Marvin Wiener LTD for over 40 years. I
 WILKINSON--Donald M., Jr. On August 13, 2006 at his home in Laurel Hollow on Long Island. Beloved husband of Minette. Cherished father of Phoebe, Donald III, Heidi von Maur and Genevieve Priest. Adored grandfather of Jack and Phoebe Gibbons, Jack IV, Otto and August von Maur, and Dante, Rom
 ZATZ--Mark, 57 of Pelham, New York died on Sunday August 13, 2006. Beloved husband of Susan Brenner Zatz. Loving father to Jordan and Deborah, Shauna (Marcus) Horvath and David Brenner. Treasured grandfather to Alexa and Max. Son of Esther Lafair and nephew to his much loved aunt Gloria Fra
 Victor del Corral, a Cuban émigré whose Manhattan restaurant, Victor's Cafe, was a celebrated gathering place during its heyday in the 1960's and 70's, died on Friday in Miami. He was 84. Mr. del Corral's family announced the death. No cause was given. Victor's Cafe, which
 Joseph F. Carlino, a leading Long Island Republican for 20 years and the speaker of the New York State Assembly from 1959 to 1964, died on Sunday at his home in Syosset, N.Y. He was 89 and had suffered a stroke eight years ago. His death was confirmed by Alphonse M. D'Amato, the for
 Leonard H. Marks, a communications lawyer who helped Lyndon B. Johnson and his wife acquire the television stations that built their fortune and who later served as director of the United States Information Agency in the Johnson administration, died Friday in Washington. He was 90. 
 Lawrence Sacharow, an Obie Award-winning director and a pioneer of biographical theater, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter Anya Sacharow. From the early 1960's, Mr. Sacharow was an active director of Off and Off Off Broadway pr
 DRUTMAN--Jack, 92. Jack of all trades, master of most! Beloved husband of Mae. Loving father of Joan (deceased), Bob and Amy. Treasured grandfather of Rachel. He will be much missed.       
 GORDON--Barry, Dr. of East Rockaway, Long Island passed away from brain cancer on August 13, 2006. Beloved husband of Joan (Lentol) and father of Brad, Leon, Marcy and step-father of Lisa. He is also survived by grandchildren, Elizabeth, Andrew, Christopher, Sydney, Benjamin, Lindsey and Ai
 HALL--Dr. Kermit L. Our deepest sympathies to his wife, Phyllis, the family and colleagues of Dr. Kermit Hall, president of the University at Albany, State University of New York, and graduate of the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public affairs at Syracuse University.Chancellor Nancy Ca
 JACOBS--Harvey Lee, 81. Beloved husband of Arline Rubin, brother of Arthur, uncle of Jim, Ken, Joanna & Tom. His integrity, warm personality and generosity built life long friendships remembered by many. Harvey's humor and story telling brought laughter to everyone. Arline's loving care was
 JONES--Douglas Wiley. The Board of Directors, clients, and volunteers of SAGE mourn the loss of Doug, who was a great friend and generous supporter of our work, and we extend condolences to his life-partner, Louis.       
 KIRMSER--Earl died July 11th from a stroke. Born August 21st, 1916, in St. Paul, Minnesota, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Minnesota. He was a writer and editor at newspapers in Minnesota, Columbus, Ohio, and at The Washington Post. He served in the U.S. Navy during Worl
 Gen. Alfredo Stroessner, the former president of Paraguay whose harsh and capricious 35-year hold on power made him South America's most enduring dictator during the cold war and gave him the aura of a character out of a Gabriel García Márquez novel, died yesterday. He was 93. The
 James L. Wattenbarger, a former University of Florida education professor often called the father of the state's community college system, died Monday while visiting friends in the Atlanta area. He was 84 and lived in Gainesville. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.      
 Miguel (Angá) Díaz, the virtuosic Cuban conga player who became one of the world's best-known percussionists, died on Aug. 9 at his home in Sant Sadurní d'Anoia, a small town outside of Barcelona, Spain. He was 45. The cause was a heart attack, according to Blake Zidell, a public
 Milton Kaye, a pianist and arranger who moved with ease from accompanying Heifetz to writing theme music for the TV quiz show ''Concentration,'' from playing in Toscanini's orchestra to playing the organ on ''The Rootie Kazootie Show,'' died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 97. Before
 GREGORY--Frank H., age 71, of Waldwick died Tuesday, August 15, 2006 at his home. Born in Bronx, NY he lived in Jersey City and Lodi before moving to Waldwick in 1963. Mr. Gregory was the CEO and President of Warren George, Inc.,Jersey City, NJ and Owner and Operator of Acker Drill, Inc.,Sc
 JAXON--Jay Jason, Fashion and Costume Designer. August 30, 1941 -July 19, 2006. Died from complications from prostate cancer. Fashion career spanned over several decades. Born in Queens, New York, Mr. Jaxon began his work in Paris in the houses of Yves St. Laurent, Christian Dior and Jean L
 MARKS--Leonard H. The Board of Directors, Overseers and staff of the International Rescue Committee are saddened by the death on August 7 of Leonard H. Marks, a member of our board from 1973 to 1986, our president from 1973 to 1979 and father of our fellow board member Robert E. Marks. As I
 SEABROOK--de Lacy H. of Chatham, NJ and Stuart, FL formerly of Short Hills, NJ, died on August 11, 2006, age 81. Beloved husband of the late Joan S. Seabrook. Father of Susannah S. Monahon and her husband P. ChrisMonahon of Newton, MA, J. Connor Seabrook and his wife Martha of Atlanta, GA, 
 SACHAROW--Lawrence, a kind, caring and thoughtful man, Larry's bright and gentle manner as a director extended well beyond the footlights. He breathed life into plays, and spread warmth among us all. We will miss him. Condolences to Michele and family from his Edward Albee, Elizabeth McCann
 KIRSCHBAUM--Joel. On August 16. He will be forever remembered by his beloved wife, Michele & his devoted children Rachel and Danielle for his spirit, humor, brilliance and generosity. He is the cherished son of Belle and Max & the treasured brother of Harold, Karen and Helene. He will be sa
 MYERS--Myron M. In his 100th year. Beloved husband of the late Edna. Dear brother of the late Bernice Erdheim. Loving brother-in-law of Florence W. Helfgott. Cherished uncle of Rita Joan Jaffee and Sheila Rider. Services at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave., NYC, Sunday 11:15 AM
 NOLAN--Joseph of New Canaan, CT, Charlestown RI, and Key Largo, FL, died on August 14th, 2006 of prostate cancer. He was 60 years old. Joe was born in Lewisburg, PA in 1946. He graduated from Villanova University in 1968 and received his MBA from Boston College in 1973. Joe served in the Un
 SMITH--James W., M.D. The administration and staff of the Center for Specialty Care, 50 East 69 St., New York, NY, mourn the death of our friend and inspiration; the founder of the Center, its Chairman of the Board and Medical Director. His farsighted vision for the delivery of the highest 
 WEILL--Guy A., 1914-2006. Guy Weill was born in 1914 in Zurich, Switzerland, and died August 17, 2006 at home in New York City. He is survived by his devoted wife of 63 years, Marie-Helene Bigar Weill, his loving daughters Claudia, Kathryn and Patricia Weill, his adored grandchildren Emily 
 Dr. Paul B. Beeson, an expert in infectious diseases whose research contributed to novel insights into the causes of high and persistent fevers and who became an influential medical editor and administrator at Yale and Oxford, died Monday in Exeter, N.H. He was 97. Dr. Beeson's deat
 Rudi Stern, a multimedia artist who spent decades bending light to his will in the service of both art and commerce -- from the psychedelic shows he created for Timothy Leary to the vibrant neon in Studio 54 -- died on Tuesday in Cadiz, Spain. He was 69 and had made his home in Cadiz in rec
 John Hutton, an influential home furnishings designer whose work has been widely imitated by mass-market manufacturers in the United States and Europe, died Thursday in Manhattan. He was 59 and had homes in West Islip, N.Y., and Nancy, France. His wife, Brenda, said the cause was pr
 JONES--Douglas Wiley. The Empire State Pride Agenda will greatly miss our dear friend and colleague Douglas Wiley Jones, who passed away on August 9, 2006. Doug served on the Board of Directors of the Pride Agenda for many years, most recently on the Executive Committee as the Treasurer of 
 LALA--Issar K. Of New York, NY formerly of Allendale, NJ on August 17, 2006. Beloved husband of Mira (nee Chandnani). Devoted father of Vinod Lala and Renu Lala Vitale both of New York, NY. Dear brother of Lekhraj Lala of Wyckoff, Tulsio Lala of St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, Kishin Lala of In
 LUNETTA--Saverio C. passed away on August 17, 2006. Beloved husband of Rose, devoted and ever-loving father of Rose, Andrew, Anthony, Josephine, Lena, Saverio and MaryAnn and grandfather of eight, great grandfather of five. He loved all equally. He was a ''gentlemen's gentleman''. Reposing 
 WEILL--Guy A. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Guy A. Weill, a Museum Benefactor since 1986 and devoted friend, particularly of the Department of Asian Art. Guy and his wife, Marie-Helene, formed a noteworthy collection of Asian art, some of whic
 ZELTER--Charles T., 91, Venice, FL, died August 16, 2006. He was born December 11, 1914, in Rochester, NY, and came to Venice 25 years ago from there. He was an Executive with the B. Forman Co. for 52 years. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and the Wharton School of Business
 SACHAROW--Lawrence. Teacher, Counsellor, Artist and Master Producer of our heralded living theatre ''The Concept'', Larry Sacharow was quintessentially our Friend. The cherished Mentor of generations of Daytop's young who drew upon his caring genius to learn the language of theatre in conve
 Shamsur Rahman, a prominent Bangladeshi poet, journalist and human rights advocate who in 1999 survived an attempt on his life by an Islamic fundamentalist group, died in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on Thursday. He was in his late 70's. The cause was heart and kidney failure, his family told
 Len Evans, who as a writer, vineyard owner, restaurateur and promoter was for almost half a century Australia's wine ambassador to the world, died Thursday in Newcastle, in New South Wales, Australia. He was 75 and lived in Pokolbin, in the Hunter Valley, once considered Australia's best wi
 BADALIAN--Sebou in Paris on July 22, 2006. At 15 his genius was clear, doing makeup and hair for the Royals of his city Tehran. In 1962 he resided in New York and worked for Revlon and soon opened his own salon, Sebou Salon. His finds lifelong loyal clientele among the International jetsets
 BAUMAN--Mortimer. On August 19, 2006. Beloved husband of Carolyn, father of Larry, John and Sherry. Loving grandfather of Laura. Leader in the lamp manufacturing industry, veteran, longtime member of Rockrimmon Country Club. Loved by all who were fortunate enough to know him. In his 92nd ye
 BREGMAN--Milton. Of Tenafly, NJ. Born July 6, 1913. Died at home August 8, 2006. Founder and former owner of Milton Bregman Manufacturing Co. Beloved husband of the late Harriet Bregman. Devoted brother to his late siblings, Gertrude Coopersmith, Ruth Cohen, Helen Cantor & Seymour Bregman. 
 DARROW--Harry N., Jr. Of Bronxville and the Florida Keys died on August 18. He was 90 years old. Harry was born on January 6, 1916 in Stamford, CT. He graduated from the Curtis School and the NY Military Academy. He was one of the first draftees of WWII and was part of the 9th Division that
 FOGARTY--Jack. It is with great sadness that the alumnae of Camp Jeanne d'Arc acknowledge the loss of our beloved ''Jacques d'Arc.'' With kindness, humor and many talents Jack filled our summers with music and joy for over 40 years. We are thankful for his delightful presence among us and w
 FRANKEL - Jerome. Died peacefully August 18, 2006. Member of the NYSE, world traveler, gourmet, avid collector of contemporary glass, loving husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. We will have many wonderful memories of him to sustain us. With Love, Paul, Evy, Justin, Rachel an
 GIBBONS--John Martin Jr., an obstetrician and gynecologist, died recently surrounded by his cherished and loving family in Hartford, Connecticut. He was 73. The cause of death was cancer. Dr. Gibbons was a leader and advocate of women's health. He was President of the American College of Ob
 GRAY--Julius of Ninevah Beach, Sag Harbor, New York died on August 11, 2006 at his home. He was 93 years of age. Mr. Gray received his high school diploma from the distinguished Kittrell College in North Carolina. A 1938 graduate of Lincoln University, Pennsylvania he went on to earn a Mast
 HAMMER--Robert Earl. On August 18, 2006, in Sarasota, FL. Born September 27, 1914, Chicago, IL. Retired 1980 as Chairman and founder of New York Twist Drill Corp of Melville, NY, Ramsey, NJ, and Worcester, MA. Survivors include his wife of 66 years, Marjorie, daughter Suzanne Eliot of Westp
 HARTENSTEIN--Hans, MD. Longtime pediatrician, age 83, died August 12 after a brief illness. Born Vienna, Austria, came to the U.S. in 1938. Resided in Syracuse, NY, with beloved wife of 55 years, Mary Louise. Adoring father of Annie and Julie. Proud father-in-law of Robert Cox and Jon Meyer
 HENDLIN--David died at home in Springfield, NJ on Monday surrounded by family. Born in Harbin, China in 1920, Dr. Hendlin moved to Brooklyn in 1926. He was Senior Director of Developmental Microbiology at Merck where he began his career in 1943. A graduate of Brooklyn College, he received h
 JACOBS--Harvey Lee, 81. Beloved husband of Arline Rubin, brother of Arthur, uncle of Jim, Ken, Joanna & Tom. His integrity, warm personality and generosity built life long friendships remembered by many. Harvey's humor and story telling brought laughter to everyone. Arline's loving care was
 JONES--Douglas Wiley. The Empire State Pride Agenda will greatly miss our dear friend and colleague Douglas Wiley Jones, who passed away on August 9, 2006. Doug served on the Board of Directors of the Pride Agenda for many years, most recently on the Executive Committee as the Treasurer of 
 LEVY--Alexander. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss ofits esteemed member and Honorary Board Member, Alexander Levy, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Liz Kislik, President $(6$)LEVY--Alexander. Founder and CEO of Hunterspoint Ste
 MANTELL--Harold, 85, of Manhattan, Kennebunkport, ME and Stuart, FL, died Saturday, August 12, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York. He is survived by his beloved wife of 49 years, Marianne; four children: Stephen, of Chappaqua, NY; Michael, of Princeton, NJ; David, of Chicago, 
 SMITH--James W., M.D. The administration and staff of the Center for Specialty Care, 50 East 69 St., New York, NY, mourn the death of our friend and inspiration; the founder of the Center, its Chairman of the Board and Medical Director. His farsighted vision for the delivery of the highest 
 VERRILLI--Guy, 83. Of Lawrence, NY, died on August 14, 2006. He is survived by his wife Sylvia and two children, Barbara & Stephen. Funeral was private.       
 WEILL--Guy A., 1914-2006. Guy Weill was born in 1914 in Zurich, Switzerland, and died August 17, 2006 at home in New York City. He is survived by his devoted wife of 63 years, Marie-Helene Bigar Weill, his loving daughters Claudia, Kathryn and Patricia Weill, his adored grandchildren Emily 
 BARRETT - Marvin. We mourn the passing of a great man, whose quiet, smiling, brilliant and charming presence will be sorely missed. He was a wonderful partner to Mary Ellin and a friend to us all. Always supportive of the activities of the office, he had an extraordinary ability to find and
 BAUMAN--Mortimer. On August 19, 2006. Beloved husband of Carolyn, father of Larry, John and Sherry. Loving grandfather of Laura. Leader in the lamp manufacturing industry, veteran, longtime member of Rockrimmon Country Club. Loved by all who were fortunate enough to know him. In his 92nd ye
 CAMPBELL--Dr. Robert G. Leading research doctor, former executive vice president and medical director of St. Luke's-Roosevelt, Trustee of the Mary Imogene Bassett Hospital, Cooperstown, NY, and Professor Emeritus of Medicine at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, died Fr
 FRANKEL - Jerome. Died peacefully August 18, 2006. Member of the NYSE, world traveler, gourmet, avid collector of contemporary glass, loving husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. We will have many wonderful memories of him to sustain us. With Love, Paul, Evy, Justin, Rachel an
 HAMMER--Robert Earl. On August 18, 2006, in Sarasota, FL. Born September 27, 1914, Chicago, IL. Retired 1980 as Chairman and founder of New York Twist Drill Corp of Melville, NY, Ramsey, NJ, and Worcester, MA. Survivors include his wife of 66 years, Marjorie, daughter Suzanne Eliot of Westp
 LEVY - Alexander. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, NY, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member, Alex Levy. He will be sorely missed.       
 PRIOR--Rev. Francis. The St. John's University Board of Trustees notes, with profound sorrow, the passing of Rev. Francis Prior, C.M., who dedicated himself to God and to the Vincentian community in a priesthood that spanned more than fifty years. He served St. John's University as a member
 SMITH--James Walter, M.D. of Greenwich, CT and New York City died August 15th, 2006 following a stroke. Husband of Nancy and father of Lucinda, Judith, James,Constance and Peter. Memorial Service Thursday August 24th at 11am at The Christ Church, Greenwich, CT. Memorial contributions may be
 WEBER--Julian L. 77, of New York City, on August 20, 2006. Beloved husband of Idelle, father of Todd and Suzanne, father-in-law of Elisabetta and Chris, grandfather of Bianca, Julia and Carlo. Brother of Vivian and Marilyn. Lawyer and former president of The National Lampoon. In lieu of flo
 Alexander Cushing, who persuaded Olympic leaders to hold the 1960 Winter Games at his new resort in Squaw Valley, Calif., which at the time of his application had a single chairlift and a 50-room lodge, died Sunday in Newport, R.I. He was 92. The cause was pneumonia, his family said
 Jamie Astaphan, the physician who supplied the Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson with banned drugs before he won a gold medal in the 1988 Seoul Olympics, died Friday on his native Caribbean island of St. Kitts. He was 60. The cause was a heart attack, Meredith Charles, the St. Kitts pol
 Joe Rosenthal, the Associated Press photographer who captured the enduring image of the American fighting man in World War II with his depiction of five Marines and a Navy corpsman raising a huge American flag over the Japanese island of Iwo Jima, died Sunday in Novato, Calif. He was 94.   
 Marvin Barrett, an educator and authority on broadcast journalism whose best-known books describe his struggles with serious illness, and how those struggles became occasions for spiritual discovery, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was congestive heart f
 BARBER--Bernard. 88, on August 20, 2006 in New York City. Married 50 years to his lifelong love, the late Elinor Gellert Barber. Bernard received his undergraduate and doctoral degrees from Harvard University. After serving as a lieutenant for several tours of duty in the Navy, including in
 BARRETT--Marvin, distin guished editor and writer, former director of the Alfred I. DuPont/Columbia University Survey and Awards in Broadcast Journalism, friend of, and advisor to a generation of journalists, died peacefully at home, at the age of 86 on August 19th. He was the beloved husba
 BAUMAN--Mortimer. Morty, we will miss your kind, gentle ways. When it comes to loyalty, you were number one. We extend our heart felt condolances to Carolyn, John,Larry, Sherry, and Laura. Roberta and Stanley $(6$)BAUMAN--Mortimer. We will miss Morty deeply, and while we grieve his loss we 
 CAMPBELL--Robert G., M.D. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt (SLR) Hospital Center family acknowledges with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Robert G. Campbell, M.D. Dr. Campbell served for many years as Executive Vice President and Medical Director for SLR and played
 GRAY--Julius. The Noyac Golf Club mourns the passing of one of its founding members Julius Gray and extends condolences to his family. Ted Ronick, President Richard M. Mathew, Sec'y       
 HARRIS--Robert. Economist and senior executive in NYC, NYS and federal governments and private research institutions. Beloved husband of Lyuda and father of Leah, Seth and Aaron. Funeral at Walter B. Cooke, 352 East 87th St., Aug. 23,11 am. His family and friends celebrate his life and mour
 MILLER--Herbert, 65, died August 16th. Survived by beloved wife Lydia and children. Board Member of the Osborne Association, serving prisoners, and their families. Long-time investigator for the NYS dept of Education until his death. His counsel will be missed. Colleagues, family and friend
 PACKER--Sol B., Former fraud analyst for the Social Security Administration, died on August 13th, 2006 in Brooklyn, NY. Born in Passaic, NJ on May 28th, 1946. The son of Joseph and Toby Packer, Sol graduated from the University of Rochester in 1968. He started work for SSA in 1976, and was 
 SMITH--James W., M.D. The administration and staff of the Center for Specialty Care, 50 East 69 St., New York, NY, mourn the death of our friend and inspiration; the founder of the Center, its Chairman of the Board and Medical Director. His farsighted vision for the delivery of the highest 
 THOMPSON -- Hugh Smith. Named for an uncle who was killed in aerial combat in the waning days of World War I, and with the same name as his great grandfather, governor of South Carolina in the 1880's, Hugh was born on June 8, 1924 and grew up in Larchmont, NY. After attending Exeter, he ser
 WEILL--Guy. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Guy Weill. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Marie-Helene and to the entire family. Patricia Sumergrade, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secretary   
 YELLIN--Norman. On August 20, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Loving father of Karen (Alan) Senter, Joel (Laura), Paul (Susan). Dear brother of May Goldberg. Adored grandfather and great grandfather. Services Tuesday 11 AM ''Sinai Chapels'', 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh 
 Robert K. Hoffman, a founder of National Lampoon magazine who went on to become a leading Dallas business owner and philanthropist and a major collector of contemporary art, died on Sunday in Dallas. He was 59. The cause was leukemia, his family said. As an undergraduate at 
 Umberto Baldini, the director of the conservation studios at the Uffizi Gallery who helped save and restore hundreds of artworks damaged by the famous Arno River flood of 1966, died at his home near Florence on Wednesday. He was 84. His funeral took place Aug. 17 at the church of Sa
 Yizhar Smilansky, a revered Israeli writer known as S. Yizhar, best known for his stories of the 1948 war of independence, died Monday of heart failure. He was 89. Mr. Smilansky was given his pen name in 1938 and was considered an innovator in modern Hebrew literature, combining dif
 Jacob Mincer, a pioneer in labor economics who was the first to quantify the payoff from education and training, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Dr. Flora Kaplan Mincer, said. Mr. Mincer had spent
 ABOULAFIA--David. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 ALLEN--Donald Beaton. Of Southampton, NY, died August 16, age 90. He was a prominent admiralty lawyer and former partner at Hill, Betts & Nash. He was a naval officer and WWII veteran. He is survived by sister Marion Hall, son Peter and wife Barrie, and son Donald and partner Beverley. Memo
 BARRETT--Marvin, distin guished editor and writer, former director of the Alfred I. DuPont/Columbia University Survey and Awards in Broadcast Journalism, friend of, and advisor to a generation of journalists, died peacefully at home, at the age of 86 on August 19th. He was the beloved husba
 BEALE--Martin. Died August 22, 2006 in Boca Raton, FL. Loving father of David and Tina Beale, and Judy Falco. Grandfather of Janna, Joshua, Elana, Gregory and Jonathan. Loving husband of the late Roslyn (1988), and Joy (2005). Master teacher, supervisor, and Assistant Pricipal in NYC school
 BUCK--Ralph D., died in Manhattan on August 21, 2006. He died with grace, peacefully, and in no pain, with his wife Susan beside him. Mr. Buck was tax counsel and associate general counsel for Caltex Petroleum, a division of Chevron Texaco, before retiring in 1986. After graduating from Pri
 DEUTSCHER--Martha. New York Theatre Workshop mourns the passing of Martha Deutscher, former member of the Board of Trustees and beloved aunt of our friend Tony Kushner. Our condolences to Tony and his family. The Artists, Board and Staff of New York Theatre Workshop       
 FOX--Martin H. , August 19, 2006, in Portland, ME. Born April 29, 1927 in Bronx, NY, he served in the US Navy from 1943-1947. After more than 30 years with Revlon, he retired as Senior Vice President of Purchasing in 1991. He is survived by his wife Jeanne, of Little Fox Island, Freeport, M
 FRANKEL--Jerome. The members and staff of J. Streicher & Co. LLC are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and former partner, Jerry Frankel. We will greatly miss ''The Doctors'' charm, quick wit and warm sense of humor. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his family. Jud, Steve
 HANDROS--Joseph. A resident of New York City and Southampton, NY died August 18, 2006 after a short illness. He is survived by his wife, Nancy and his daughter, Libby both of New York. Born in Brooklyn in 1932, Joseph graduated from Harvard in 1954 and Harvard Law School in 1956. He joined 
 HARRIS--Robert. Economist and senior executive in NYC, NYS and federal governments and private research institutions. Beloved husband of Lyuda and father of Leah, Seth and Aaron. Funeral at Walter B. Cooke, 352 East 87th St., Aug. 23,11 am. His family and friends celebrate his life and mour
 HOFFMAN--Robert. L & M Arts joins the entire art world in regretfully saying goodbye to Robert Hoffman. He and his wife, Marguerite, built a terrific and personal collection of contemporary masterpieces in which each acquisition was thoughtfully made. This superb collection was given to the
 HUTTON--John Andrew. Of West Islip, NY. On August 17, 2006 . Director of John Hutton International. Beloved husband of Brenda. Devoted father of John, Douglas and his fiancee Alexa. Expectant grandfather of Luca. Dear brother of Shiloh Raynor, Andrea Blomquist and Bruce Hutton. A memorial s
 LIEBERMAN -- James San ford, MD. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. James S. Lieberman. Chairman and physiatrist-in-chief of the Department of Rehabilitation for New York-Presbyterian at both Columbia University Medical Center and Weill Cornell Medic
 MILENKO--Michael L. At age 51. Died unexpectedly at his home in Virginia Beach. Beloved son of the late Naomi and Mel Milenko, and loving step son of Ken Katz. Cherished brother of Hillary Milenko, and Ellen Reiner, and brother-in-law of Richard Reiner. Devoted uncle of Erica and Jenny Rein
 POST--Richard M. died from complications at St. Luke's Hospital in New York, after a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of Carol for 45 years. Loving father of Cindy, Steven and Pamela (Kimmel). Adored grandfather of Ethan, Samantha, Jared and Zachary. Loved brother of David. Loved and surv
 TORTU--Dino J. Suddenly on August 16, 2006 of Manhattan, NY. Age 52. Beloved husband for 31 years to Diane (nee Belz). Loving father of Elizabeth and Julia both at home. Beloved son of Dino & Catherine (nee Drapczuk) Tortu of Cherry Hill, NJ. Dearest brother of Dr. Stephanie Tortu of New Or
 ROSENTHAL--Seymour Allen. Of Forest Hills, N.Y. died on August 21, 2006. Born on April 8, 1917, he was a beloved son of Anna and Benjamin, the loving and devoted husband to Lillian, father to Ilyse, grandfather to Jamie, Emily, Jenny and brother to Beatrice, Martin and Gerald. He attended N
 William C. Norris, an electrical engineer who founded Control Data, the company that created the first supercomputers, died on Monday in Bloomington, Minn. He was 95. His death followed a long battle with Parkinson's disease, a son, Roger, said. After World War II, Mr. Norri
 Ed Thrasher, an art director and photographer who designed defining album covers for Jimi Hendrix, Frank Sinatra and the Beach Boys, and helped shape the enduring image of rock and pop in the 1960's and 70's, died on Aug. 5 at his home in Big Bear Lake, Calif. He was 74. The cause w
 Jeffrey Tennyson, an artist whose obsession with hamburgers -- equal parts gastronomic, folkloric and satiric -- resulted in a book on burger history and a hoard of thousands of burger knickknacks, died Aug. 18 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 54. The cause was complicatio
 ATKINS--Robert Prince, died August 16th, 2006 in Boynton Beach, FL. He was President of Brother Truck Rental. He is survived by his wife Nancy (Gutfreund), three children and six grandchildren.       
 BARRETT--Marvin, distin guished editor and writer, former director of the Alfred I. DuPont/Columbia University Survey and Awards in Broadcast Journalism, friend of, and advisor to a generation of journalists, died peacefully at home, at the age of 86 on August 19th. He was the beloved husba
 COOKE--Robert Anderson, Jr. 88, of Colts Neck, NJ died Sunday, August 13. Survived by his children, Celia, Robert & Claudia, and grandson, Michael. Service 3 pm, Sunday August 27 at Christ Church, Middletown, NJ. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Fresh Air Fund.       
 FOX--Martin H. , August 19, 2006, in Portland, ME. Born April 29, 1927 in Bronx, NY, he served in the US Navy from 1943-1947. After more than 30 years with Revlon, he retired as Senior Vice President of Purchasing in 1991. He is survived by his wife Jeanne, of Little Fox Island, Freeport, M
 HUTTON--John Andrew. Of West Islip, NY. On August 17, 2006 . Director of John Hutton International. Beloved husband of Brenda. Devoted father of John, Douglas and his fiancee Alexa. Expectant grandfather of Luca. Dear brother of Shiloh Raynor, Andrea Blomquist and Bruce Hutton. A memorial s
 MILENKO--Michael L. At age 51. Died unexpectedly at his home in Virginia Beach. Beloved son of the late Naomi and Mel Milenko, and loving step son of Ken Katz. Cherished brother of Hillary Milenko, and Ellen Reiner, and brother-in-law of Richard Reiner. Devoted uncle of Erica and Jenny Rein
 MINCER--Jacob. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the wife and children of Jacob Mincer. He and his wife were dear friends of the family, and particularly of the late Charles Botstein. Anne Botstein, David and Leon Botstein, and Eva Botstein Griepp $(6$)MINCER -- Jacob, Ph.D. Pr
 POST--Richard M. died from complications at St. Luke's Hospital in New York, after a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of Carol for 45 years. Loving father of Cindy, Steven and Pamela (Kimmel). Adored grandfather of Ethan, Samantha, Jared and Zachary. Loved brother of David. Loved and surv
 PREISKEL--Robert. The New York Community Trust mourns the death of Robert Preiskel, husband of the late Barbara Scott Preiskel, our distinguished and muchloved Board chairman. Because Bob adored Barbara, he was a friend of ours as well. He was a brilliant lawyer, a generous volunteer and ph
 SCHLANK--Colgan, 75, of Manhattan & Saltaire, F.I., passed August 21st. Beloved by family & friends who basked in his generosity, wit & special charm. Survived by his wife, Madeleine Morel; son, Christopher; daughter, Christina Gaffney; grandchildren, John, Julia, & Luke Schlank & Myles & C
 TERMAN--Isaiah. July 21, 1911 to August 23, 2006. Father of Jane Terman McMahan and Michael Terman, grandfather of Selena Clare McMahan, father-in-law of Jiuan Su Terman and Ian McMahan. Devoted husband of the late Daisy Terman. Appreciated for his wit and warmth. Served as a national staff
 Yen Do, the founder of the largest-circulation Vietnamese-language daily newspaper in the United States and a guiding force in the assimilation of refugees after the Vietnam War, died on Aug. 17 in the community known as Little Saigon in Westminster, Calif., about 30 miles south of Los Ange
 Maynard Ferguson, whose soaring trumpeting reached the instrument's highest ranges and propelled a musical career of more than 60 years, died Wednesday in Ventura, Calif. He was 78. The cause was kidney and liver failure, said his personal manager, Steve Schankman. Mr. Fergu
 BUCHOFF--Arnold died at home on August 23, 2006. He is survived by his devoted wife Barbara, his loving children Amy and Mitchell Buchoff and Suzanne and Bob Hughes, his adoring grandchildren Ethan and Alyssa.       
 DISHY--Victor J. The family is saddened by his death on August 23, 2006. His wit, energy and creativity will be sorely missed. He was an author, businessman and songwriter. Survived by his most beloved wife Zaida and the apple of his eye, his dearest daughter, Gabriella, his brothers Bernar
 DOLAN--James C. 78, loving husband of Kay. Former Senior Partner of the law firm Geringer & Dolan. Survived by his children James, Maureen Yeager, Kashine, Christopher & Eileen Henderson. Funeral Mass Saturday, 10 AM Sacred Heart Church, Dobbs Ferry. Visiting Friday (today) 2-4 & 7-9 PM Edw
 GOLDMAN--Ira J. Age 82. Beloved husband for 62 years of Marylin, father of Alan, grandfather of Melissa Oldman, proud great-grandfather of Lucas and Aurora, dear brother to Lowell and Linda Grossman. A Marine who served in World War II and the Korean conflict, he was owner and president of 
 HOFFMAN--Lawrence, PGC: Members of the Grand Lodge, Knights of Pythias NY, mourn the loss of a vital brother. We extend condolences to his wife and family.       
 LYNTON--Andrew E. Suddenly, on August 22 at age 57. Beloved son of Harold S. Lynton and the late Edith F. Lynton, dear stepson of Hattie Lynton and brother of Stephen and Dick. He is mourned by the family. Memorial services to be arranged. Contributions in his memory may be made to an organ
 MITCHELL--Robert D. Theatre designer, died on August 18th of complications from epithelioid hemangio endothelioma. Mr. Mitchell's scenic designs were produced on and off Broadway and by, among others, the National Theatre of Greece, the Paris Opera, and the Oxford Union. He is survived by h
 OLESEN--Claus. On August 3, 2006 New York City lost a beloved resident, Claus Olesen, 65 years old. Born in Copenhagen, Denmark, he spent 40 years living as an American citizen here, a place very close to his heart. A graduate of Hunter College, Claus was an avid participant in the City's s
 PREISKEL--Robert, a friend for more than 60 years, has left us. We knew and admired him as a colleague, sometime golfer, and above all, a fervent participant in humanitarian causes. We extend our sympathy to John, Ricky, Marion, and Malachi. Rita and Leon Silverman PREISKEL--Robert,
 TOBIAS --Roy. The New York City Ballet family notes with sorrow the death of Roy Tobias. Roy was an early member of Ballet Society, and he danced with NYCB from its founding, in 1948, until 1960. We extend our sincere condolences to his friends and family.       
 VERLIN--Steven. On August 23, 2006. Loving husband of Grae. Devoted son of Regina and Murray. Beloved father of Adam and Carrie, Tara, Grant and Brent. Adoring grandfather of Hannah and Justin. Dear brother of Francine, Janet and Jeffrey. Cherished uncle of many nieces and nephews. Well res
 ARNSTEIN--Benjamin Simon.Of New York City. Died peacefully at home on August 23, 2006. Loving friend of Susan S. Sandler, beloved husband of the late Daphne Arnstein, devoted father of Simon Arnstein and his wife, Joan Levy, Nelson Arnstein, M.D. and Gemma Rettman and her husband, Dale Rett
 Roger Donoghue, a prizefighter who could have been a contender until his blows killed an opponent and something inside himself (but far from everything), then moved on to teach Marlon Brando to box for the movie ''On the Waterfront,'' died on Sunday in Greenport, N.Y. He was 75. The
 Sig Shore, an independent producer whose low-budget 1972 film ''Superfly'' was among the first of the so-called blaxploitation movies of the 1970's and gave its name to the flamboyant style that was a hallmark of the genre, died on Aug. 17 in Stamford, Conn. He was 87. The cause was
 Vernon M. Ingram, a molecular biologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who discovered that a single genetic mutation caused the blood disease sickle cell anemia, died on Aug. 17 in Boston. He was 82. The cause was injuries stemming from a fall, according to M.I.T.     
 John Wilson, an assistant to the science editor of The New York Times and a founding member of the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association, collapsed and died early yesterday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 56. His partner, Richard Poirier, said it appeared that Mr. W
 HOWARD--George H., Ph.D. Former director of SUNYBrooklyn Educational Opportunity Center died on August 20, 2006. His keen intellect and love of debate will be missed. He is survived by his children Dolores & George Jr.       
 LYNTON--Andrew E. Suddenly, on August 22 at age 57. Beloved son of Harold S. Lynton and the late Edith F. Lynton, dear stepson of Hattie Lynton and brother of Stephen and Dick. He is mourned by the family. Memorial services to be arranged. Contributions in his memory may be made to an organ
 PREISKEL--Robert. Beloved husband of the late Barbara. Father of John and Richard. Valued and dedicated board member of SCAN. N.Y. We shall miss your insight and advice in SCAN's fight to keep families together. Our deepest sympathies to his loved ones. Jane Overman, Chairperson Stuart Gree
 TARSHIS--Joseph M. Beloved husband of the late Rhoda Tarshis and the late Helene Tarshis. Devoted father to Andy and Patricia Tarshis and Nancy and Mitch Schley and stepfather to Nancy and Seth Zachary, Patty and Andy Haddock and Paul Lefrak. Proud grandfather of Jenna, Jeffrey, Daniel, Ste
 James W. Smith Jr., a noted surgeon who recreated a forbidden childhood paradise by amassing one of the finest collections of antique penny arcade games in the country, died on Aug. 15 in Greenwich, Conn. He was 79 and had for many years made his home in Greenwich, less than a mile down the
 CREGLIA--Bruno. Passed August 20, 2006 of natural causes in his adopted home of North Carolina. Devoted husband of the late Elizabeth (nee Szucs). Son of the late Giordano and Anna Creglia, and dear brother of Lucio, former owners of Giordano Restaurant, NYC. Dear brother-inlaw to Elena Cre
 DOUGHERTY--Robert. Halstead Property and its owners Terra Holdings are saddened by the loss of Robert Dougherty, 76, the father-inlaw of the Executive Director of Sales of our Westside office, Michael Goldenberg, and the daughter of our Senior V.P., Susan Dougherty. Bob, a retired banker, p
 FELDMAN--Gene. The Board of Directors, shareholders and employess of 10 W. 66 St, mourn the passing on August 25, 2006 of our long time Director, Vice President and substantial contributor to the well being of the cooperative and its residents. Gene's concern for the happiness of all member
 FREUD--Nicholas Steven, died Friday, August 18, 2006, at his home in San Francisco, at the age of 64. Born February 6, 1942, in New York City. Mr. Freud graduated from Jonathan Edwards College at Yale University in 1963 and from Yale Law School in 1966. He began his legal career at Hughes H
 HENGEN--Ronald F. On August 17, 2006, of New Providence, NJ. Beloved husband of Lynn Miller Hengen; loving father of Kimberly Hengen, Jennifer Hengen and Jessica Pritchard, all of New York City; doting grandfather of Jack Hengen and Miller Pritchard. Also survived by brothers, Gerald Hengen
 HUGGINS--Robert Lance. Passed away on Wednesday, August 16, 2006 at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge. He was 68. Descendent of pioneers in Arkansas for whom President Martin Van Buren signed a homestead land grant, Robert was born in Springfield, MA and then lived in Glen Ridge from his 
 LYNTON--Andrew E. Suddenly, on August 22 at age 57. Beloved son of Harold S. Lynton and the late Edith F. Lynton, dear stepson of Hattie Lynton and brother of Stephen and Dick. He is mourned by the family. Memorial services to be arranged. Contributions in his memory may be made to an organ
 MALARA--Anthony C. In recognition of his many years of service as a Director and Member of the Executive Committee, the Broadcasters Foundation of America has announced that special Memorial Tributes to our beloved friend and esteemed colleague Tony Malara may be made to the Endowment Fund 
 MITCHELL--Robert D. Theatre designer, died on August 18th of complications from epithelioid hemangio endothelioma. Mr. Mitchell's scenic designs were produced on and off Broadway and by, among others, the National Theatre of Greece, the Paris Opera, and the Oxford Union. He is survived by h
 SCHLANK--Colgan, 75, of Manhattan & Saltaire, F.I., passed August 21st. Beloved by family & friends who basked in his generosity, wit & special charm. Survived by his wife, Madeleine Morel; son, Christopher; daughter, Christina Gaffney; grandchildren, John, Julia, & Luke Schlank & Myles & C
 SHICHMAN--David, formerly of Great Neck, NY, died peacefully at his home in Delray Beach, FL on August 17 in his 83rd year. Beloved husband of Marion (nee Soupios) Shichman and proud and devoted father of Michael (Helen), Karen and Janet; beloved step-father of Sandy and Charles Soupios. Ch
 WALLEY--David. G. was an influential music critic and iconoclastic cultural historian, best known as the father of the contemporary rock and roll biography. Born 1945 in New Jersey, after graduating Rutgers in 1967 he became a columnist for Jazz and Pop magazine and the East Village Other a
 ARNSTEIN--Benjamin Simon. Of New York City. Died peacefully at home on August 23, 2006. Loving friend of Susan S. Sandler, beloved husband of the late Daphne Arnstein, devoted father of Simon Arnstein and his wife, Joan Levy, Nelson Arnstein, M.D. and Gemma Rettman and her husband, Dale Ret
 BARTENBACH--Wilhelm Karl ''Bill.'' We share with great sorrow the peaceful passing of Wilhelm Bartenbach on August 25, 2006, devoted husband of Martha, father of Angelika and Margarete, grandfather of Jessica, Michael, Chelsea, and Danielle, and brother of Margarete, Gustav, and Ottilie. Bo
 CREGLIA--Bruno. Passed August 20, 2006 of natural causes in his adopted home of North Carolina. Devoted husband of the late Elizabeth (nee Szucs). Son of the late Giordano and Anna Creglia, and dear brother of Lucio, former owners of Giordano Restaurant, NYC. Dear brother-inlaw to Elena Cre
 GARNICK - Philip. Entered into rest August 19, 2006. He was born in Chelsea, MA, the son of the late Sara (Labonetz) and Isaac Garnick. Beloved husband of Marilyn (Lipsitz). Devoted father of Eric Garnick and his wife Margot Livesey of Cambridge, Peter Garnick of Melbourne, Australia, and D
 LAWRENCE--Morton B. Our friend and mentor, teacher and inspiration. He will always hold a place of honor in the hearts of those of us whose lives he touched. At a luncheon several years ago, he quoted from Henry V, and we all felt proud to be among his band of brothers. From this day to the
 Ralph Schoenstein, a humorist who was a commentator on National Public Radio's ''All Things Considered,'' a prolific contributor to magazines and newspapers, the author of 18 books, and a ghostwriter whose works included Bill Cosby's ''Fatherhood,'' died on Thursday in Philadelphia. He was 
 Léopold Simoneau, the Canadian lyric tenor who dominated international Mozart performance in the 1950's, died on Thursday night in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 90 and lived in Victoria. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Renée Maheu, the author of a joint biograph
 AUSTIN--Ernest Allen, Jr., passed on Sunday, August 27th in Cresskill, NJ. He was born November 9th, 1933 in Stoneham, MA. After serving in the Air Force during the Korean War, Ernie attended Emerson College and began his lifelong love affair with the theatre and acting. He relocated to NYC
 BARRIE--Milton R., 88, August 27, in Los Angeles. Beauty business executive, World War II veteran, longtime Friars Club member, passionate golfer, lover of jazz and people, he lived life and then some. Brother of the late George and William. Adored father of Nansi Barrie, Susan B. Sussman a
 DARMANTE--Emanuel A. (Mike). Beloved husband of the late Lucy. Devoted father of Frank and Rose Darmante and Lucille Kandakis. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Dale, and Dawn. Loving great-grandfather of seven and great great-grandfather of two. Emanuel was Deputy Chief of New York Auxilia
 FELDMAN--Kenneth, 90, of Township of Washington, NJ, on August 27, 2006. A 1939graduate of Cooper Union in Electrical Engineering, he continued in that field for Lummus Corporation throughout the world. Survived by his wife of 55 years, Susana Redondo de Feldman.       
 HILL--Fred H. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife, Sylvia, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for ablessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, P
 KUPFERSTEIN--Dr. Leon, born September 27, 1944, in Samarkand, to WWII survivors of Stalin's concentration camps. His family immigrated to New York City in 1951. An accomplished psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, he trained at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and went on to serve as presid
 Le VITA--Dr. David. Retired musicologist of the Brooklyn Museum 1942-72, Dr. David Le Vita of West Palm Beach, FL died at home August 26, 2006. He was 100 years old.       
 MANN--Ellery Wilson, Jr. Peacefully passed away on August 25, 2006 in Garden City, New York. He was born in Mineola, New York on October 22, 1922, lived in Garden City for over 50 years, and moved to Vero Beach, Florida in 1989. Ellery, widower of cherished Patricia Paula (nee McDermott), t
 PITNEY--James C., 80, of Morristown, NJ, on August 27, 2006 in Maine. Princeton University 1948. US Navy, V12. Columbia Law School 1950. Practiced law with Pitney Hardin, 1958-1996. Active in community affairs, serving on many boards. He loved the sea all his life, sailing his own boats wit
 RUSSEK--Kalman (Shimon). of Hallandale, FL. Passed away Sunday, August 27, 2006. Beloved husband of Dora, loving father of Michael (Holly), Estelle (Stephen) and Steven (Myra). Dear brother of the late Jacob (Sara) Rosen. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan, Andra, Rachel, Evan, Natanya, Vale
 WHITE--Harry Ross, 95. Died August 23, 2006 at his home in Stamford, CT. Graduate of Columbia University School of Journalism in 1933; Executive Director of the Sales Executive Club of New York for 43 years, an organization of business leaders with a world-wide reputation for initiating sal
 WILSON--John, Of Science Times. Good friend, greateditor. He was the best. Abbie Zuger       
 WILSON--Richard J. Born in 1926 in New York City. After serving in the USMC, he joined the New York Times in 1950, where he worked for the Postal Department for 42 years during the reign of three Publishers until his retirement in 1991. Richie passed away on April 19, 2006 after a brief ill
 ROSENBERG--Bernard. The NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases Board of Trustees, Administration, and Medical Staff are deeply saddened by the loss of Bernard Rosenberg, devoted father of our good friend and colleague, Andrew Rosenberg, M.D. Dr. Rosenberg, Chairman of the Dept. of Anesthesiology, 
 Melvin Schwartz, who shared the 1988 Nobel Prize in Physics for generating a beam of wispy particles known as neutrinos, died Monday at a nursing home in Twin Falls, Idaho. He was 73 and lived in Ketchum, Idaho. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease and hepatitis C, sai
 FRASCA--Anthony. Died at his home in Delray Beach, FL, on August 28, 2006 at the age of 83. Good friends called him ''Rip'' and his humor, generosity and charm won him very many of them throughout his life. In 1940 he joined his five older brothers in the fur business, eventually becoming s
 HILL--Fred H., August 26, died peacefully, with his family at his side. Fred is survived by his devoted wife Sylvia White Hill. He was predeceased by his loving wife of 54 years, Meta. He was the father of his three beloved daughters, Jacqueline, Ellen and the late Yvonne. Fred was the prou
 KUPFERSTEIN--Dr. Leon, born September 27, 1944, in Samarkand, to WWII survivors of Stalin's concentration camps. His family immigrated to New York City in 1951. An accomplished psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, he trained at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and went on to serve as presid
 MARRERO--Louis J., Sr. Passed away this week. He was a Justice of the State Supreme Court and a Colonel in the New York Guard. His wife, Marie, his daughter, Dr. Lisa A. Marrero and his son, Louis J. Marrero, Jr., a Major in the New York Guard, survive him. Judge Marrero was first elected t
 PENTY--George P. Political writer and editor died on August 5, 2006 at 77 in NYC. Born in Ohio, raised in Florida, and educated at the University of Florida and Institut d'Etudes Politiques, Paris. He was the editor at Newsweek in the 1950's, he wrote for The Nation, Saturday Review and the
 TARPEY--Leo T. 83, of Brooklyn, NY on August 28, 2006. Son of the late Leo A. and Helen (Fisher), brother of the late Gerard, Anne (McIntosh) and Marie. WWII veteran, an active alumnus of Xavier High School. As a writer, editor, photographer and public relations manager, Leo worked at the N
 Rainer Barzel, a power in postwar West German politics and a stalwart of the center-right Christian Democratic party who nearly brought down Chancellor Willy Brandt, lost a bid to succeed him and years later fell from high office in what turned out to be an undeserved scandal, died in Munic
 William Denis Curtin, who joined The New York Times in 1962 while still in high school and worked there as a copy editor for most of four decades, died on Monday at his home in Breezy Point, Queens. He was 60. The cause was cardiac arrest, his wife, Eileen, said. Mr. Curtin 
 Gerald Green, a best-selling author and screenwriter whose most famous novel, ''The Last Angry Man,'' was the basis for the 1959 film starring Paul Muni as an altruistic doctor in a downtrodden Brooklyn neighborhood, died on Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 84 and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
 Glenn Ford, a laconic, soft-spoken actor with an easy smile who played leading roles in many westerns, melodramas and romantic films from the early 1940's through the 60's, died yesterday at his Beverly Hills home. He was 90. Paramedics called to the home shortly before 4 p.m. found
 Naguib Mahfouz, the Egyptian novelist, playwright and screenwriter who won the 1988 Nobel Prize in Literature and was widely regarded as the Arab world's foremost novelist, died yesterday in Cairo. He was 94. Mr. Mahfouz had been hospitalized and in declining health since suffering 
 ALBERT--Stanley N. On August 30, 2006; beloved husband of Jan Mann; loving father of Marina & Brandon Albert; cherished grandfather of Thomas and Alexandra; loving brother of Blanche Jaye & his extended family. He will be deeply missed by all who loved and admired him. Memorial service on T
 BRODY--Harold, Ph.D. Jazz musician, psychoanalyst, racketball player, organic farmer. Survived by his wife, three children and five grandchildren. Service at noon Friday, September 1st, Zion, Mamaroneck.       
 FERKIN--Jay on August 29. 2006. Devoted husband of the late Helene and the late Jacqueline. Loving father of Susan Ellen Berkowitz with Kenneth Forcino and Linda Ferkin with her husband Harvey Berman. Cherished stepfather of Jeffrey Friedman with his wife Lily Safani and Scott Friedman with
 FRASCA--Anthony. Died at his home in Delray Beach, FL, on August 28, 2006 at the age of 83. Good friends called him ''Rip'' and his humor, generosity and charm won him very many of them throughout his life. In 1940 he joined his five older brothers in the fur business, eventually becoming s
 FRIEDENBERG--Isle, on August 29, 2006. Dear mother of Peter and his wife Cynthia. Adoring grandmother of Lori and Dana and great-grandmother of Jacob and Matthew. The family will be receiving Thursday, August 31st from 5-8 pm at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 KESSMAN--Neal F. On August 30, 2006, of Manhattan, age 58, after a long and valiant struggle with Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. Devoted son of the late Morris and Ann Kessman, Neal is survived by his beloved life partner of 22 years Rabbi Ken Brickman, his sisters Roberta Kessman, and Judith Weis
 PHILLIPS--Almarin, economist, died on August 26. He served in World War II and taught at the University of Pennsylvania and elsewhere. Mr. Phillips consulted on major antitrust cases including AT&T, IBM, Alcoa and PPG Industries. He was Co-Director of the Presidents Commission on Financial 
 SACHS--Mel A. Died August 30, 2006. Survived by wife Grace; children Jaclyn and Harrison; brother Joel Sachs. Interment private. Memorial service Sunday, September 3, 2006, noon, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65 St. $(6$)SACHS--Mel A. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New Y
 TREVOR--John Jr. The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society notes with sadness the death of John Bond Trevor, Jr., F.G.B.S. on Sunday, August 27 at Windover, his house in the Adirondacks. Mr. Trevor was a longtime Trustee and President of the Society from 1986--1989. The Board and s
 WILLIAMS--Jeffrey. The members of SSTT mourn the death of Jeffrey Williams, loving son of our devoted members, Lowell and Marsha Williams. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his parents, his brother John and the entire family. Our hearts and thoughts are with them. Stephen A. Klein, Rab
 Werner Scharff, the designer of the oh-so-comfortable Lanz flannel granny nightgown, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 90. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his son Christopher Scharff said. The Lanz of Salzburg line has provided a snuggly cover-up 
 William F. Quinn, the first elected governor of Hawaii, died on Monday in Honolulu. He was 87. The death was confirmed by Russell Pang, a spokesman for the current governor, Linda Lingle. A proponent of land reform and development, Mr. Quinn was elected on July 28, 1959, aft
