 Budd Boetticher, who directed a series of stark, low-budget westerns regarded by film scholars as classics of the genre, died on Thursday at his home in Ramona, Calif. He was 85. In the austere, suspenseful opening of ''Comanche Station'' (1960), the last of seven westerns starring 
 George Harrison, the Beatles' lead guitarist and the youngster of the group, who composed some of their most venerated songs, ranging from the intentionally prosaic to the hauntingly serene, died on Thursday at a friend's home in Los Angeles. He was 58. The cause was cancer, which h
 Dr. J. Herbert Fill, a psychiatrist who was New York City's commissioner of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services for part of the Lindsay administration, died on Sunday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 77 and had lived on the Upper East Side. The cause of d
 John Knowles, whose coming-of-age novel ''A Separate Peace'' became required reading for generations of high school students, died on Thursday at a convalescent home in a suburb of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 75. Mr. Knowles died after a short illness, said his lawyer, Kenneth Hart
 Robert Helps, an American composer and concert pianist whose own works ranged freely through the lexicon of contemporary styles and techniques, died last Saturday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 73. Scott Kluksdah, a cellist on the faculty of the University of South Florida, where
 Arthur F. Kelly, chief executive of Western Airlines in the 1970's, died on Nov. 20 in Gig Harbor, Wash. He was 88 and lived in Gig Harbor. A skilled marketer, he became chairman of Western, the Los Angeles-based airline, in 1976, when it faced tough competition. In the late
 Michael Iovenko, a Wall Street lawyer and former New York State banking official who was president of the Legal Aid Society during a bitter 1994 labor confrontation between its staff lawyers and the Giuliani administration, died in Manhattan on Saturday. He was 71. Mr. Iovenko had a
 Mohammed Ibrahim Kamel, who resigned as Egypt's foreign minister in 1978 in protest against the Camp David peace accords with Israel, predicting accurately that they would isolate Egypt in the Arab world without resolving the Palestinian question, died on Nov. 22 in Cairo, the Foreign Minis
 Viktor Astafyev, a writer who became famous for his stark novels about the Soviet Union's costly victory in the Second World War and grim narratives about prison camps and the alcoholism and despair of provincial Russian life, died on Thursday at home in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia. He was 77.    
 Joel Carlson, a white South African lawyer who used spectacular political trials to battle apartheid and expose its practices of secret detention and torture, died on Nov. 25 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 75. Mr. Carlson had been suffering from leukemi
 John William Collins, the top American chess teacher of the 20th century, whose students included Bobby Fischer, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived in New York City. Known to all as Jack Collins, his teaching career spanned almost seven decades. Many top American playe
 Gerhart Riegner, the World Jewish Congress official who was the first to warn an incredulous world that Nazi Germany had formally decided at the highest levels to annihilate Europe's Jews, died on Monday in Geneva. He was 90. The cable he sent in August 1942 -- which was passed on t
 Gino A. Circiello, a restaurateur who shunned credit cards, reservations and advertising but built a Manhattan institution on the strength of homey Italian cooking and 314 exuberantly leaping zebras on tomato-red wallpaper, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Gino, h
 Spencer Holst, a writer of fables and a fixture of the downtown Manhattan avant-garde scene for 30 years, died on Nov. 23 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. He had been suffering from emphysema and apparently died of a stroke, said George Quasha, a co-owner of Statio
 Gerhard Stoltenberg, who reunified the armies of Germany after the Berlin Wall fell, died of cancer on Nov. 23 in Bad Godesberg, Germany. He was 73. Mr. Stoltenberg, a politician whose precocious rise through the ranks led him to the highest levels of power, wasted little time joini
 Gregoire C. R. B. MacArthur, a member of one of America's wealthiest families and a supporter of human rights and liberal causes, died Nov. 18 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. MacArthur came to pub
 William Jovanovich, who presided over Harcourt, Brace Jovanovich for 36 years and transformed the highbrow literary house into one of the nation's leading textbook publishers, died on Tuesday at his home in San Diego. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack after a long illness, sai
 George T. Scharffenberger, a builder and dismantler of one of the most prominent business conglomerates, died on Nov. 10 at his home in Rolling Hills, Calif., of lung cancer. He was 82. Mr. Scharffenberger joined City Investing Company in 1966 when it was a real estate holding compa
 Dr. Joe Hin Tjio, the research biologist who produced the first correct count of the chromosomes in human cells, died Nov. 27 in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 82. Dr. Tjio (pronounced CHEE-oh) accomplished that feat in 1956 as a visiting scientist at the University of Lund, Sweden. His s
 Bill Reid, a Royal Air Force pilot in World War II who received the Victoria Cross, Britain's highest award for valor, for completing a bombing mission over Germany in a crippled plane after he was severely wounded and his navigator killed, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Crieff, Scotland. H
 George Hansen, who designed a widely used wall-mounted swing-arm lamp, died on Tuesday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 92. Mr. Hansen did not originate the idea of the swing-arm wall-mounted lamp, but his unobtrusive version, called the Hansen lamp, which he introduced in the 1
 Seydou Keïta, whose sure grasp of photographic portraiture and sophisticated understanding of strong graphics in African textiles turned him from a little-known studio artist in Mali to a formidable figure in photography, died on Nov. 21 in Paris. He lived in Bamako, the capital of Mali, a
 Sidney H. Kelley, a member of the family of used-car dealers who developed the Kelley Blue Book on car prices, died Wednesday in Norco, Calif. He was 92. The Kelley Kar Company started in 1918 with three Model T Fords in an open lot and in its heyday after World War II was the bigge
 Dr. Sidney Milton Silverstone, a pioneer in radiotherapy and a teacher whose association with Mount Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine spanned more than six decades, died Tuesday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 93. He came to the school in 1933 to study neuropathology and sa
 George Young, who in 19 seasons as the Giants' general manager lifted a storied but moribund football franchise to two Super Bowl championships and became perhaps the most respected professional football executive of his day, died yesterday in Baltimore after a short illness. He was
 Charlie McClendon, one of college football's most prominent coaches of the 1960's and 70's, when he took Louisiana State University to 13 bowl games, died Friday at his home in Baton Rouge, La. He was 78. He was treated in recent months for cancer of the fatty tissue. McClen
 George Young, who in 19 seasons as the Giants' general manager lifted a storied but moribund football franchise to two Super Bowl victories, and who drafted the two players, Phil Simms and Lawrence Taylor, who became the cornerstones of those championship teams, died Saturday night in Balti
 Pierre de Bénouville, a hero of the French Resistance in World War II, died on Wednesday in Paris. He was 87 and lived in Paris. A literary critic before the war, he formed the United Movements of the Resistance, an early part of the overall Resistance movement in Nazi-occupied Fra
 Dave Graue, one of only three cartoonists to work on the syndicated strip ''Alley Oop'' since its beginnings in 1933, died on Monday after a truck hit his car near his home in Flat Rock, N.C. He was 75. Mr. Graue inherited the strip, about a club-wielding Neanderthal, in 1950 from V
 David Astor, who as editor for 27 years of Britain's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer, built it up into a respected and successful advocate for liberal causes but later presided over its financial decline, died on Dec. 7 in London. He was 89. Mr. Astor once defined the paper's 
 Aubrey Lewis, who was one of New Jersey's greatest high school athletes and a track and football star at Notre Dame, then forged careers in law enforcement, business and public administration, died Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66. Lewis, who st
 Don Tennant, the advertising agency executive who specialized in creating characters like Tony the Tiger during the heyday of such marketing ploys, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 79. Mr. Tennant, who recently moved from his home in San Diego to Los Angeles, where two of his
 Larry Costello, who played guard for the Philadelphia 76ers' 1966-67 championship team and coached the Milwaukee Bucks to the 1970-71 league title in a National Basketball Association career that spanned more than two decades, died Tuesday in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 70. The cause wa
 A. Keith Smiley, a resort executive and environmentalist who helped protect thousands of acres of scenic landscape in Ulster County, N.Y. as a nature preserve, died on Dec. 6 in Goshen, N.Y. He was 91. He was a longtime resident of Mohonk Mountain House, a 251-room resort in
 W. G. Sebald, the profoundly elegiac and distinctive author of ''Austerlitz'' and other novels and one of the most acclaimed of contemporary writers, was killed yesterday in an automobile accident in Norfolk, England, near his home in Norwich in East Anglia. He was 57. He was drivin
 John M. Culbertson, an economist known for mounting an articulate defense of protectionist economic policy long after the tenets of free trade were de rigueur among his colleagues, died on Sunday in Madison, Wis. He was 80. Mr. Culbertson had been suffering from Parkinson's disease,
 Arthur Edwin Bye, a landscape architect whose public and private garden designs strove for a naturalism so artful that students said he knew how to make the snow fall where he wanted, died at Doylestown Hospital in Pennsylvania on Nov. 25. Mr. Bye, whose home was in Ridgefield, Conn., had b
 Seymour V. Reit, an author and illustrator best known as a creator of the cartoon character Casper the Friendly Ghost, died on Nov. 21 in New York City, where he lived. He was 83. Casper, a genial ghost-child who wants only to make friends, has been the subject of 55 theatrically re
 Erik Johns, who wrote the libretto for Aaron Copland's only full-length opera, ''The Tender Land,'' died on Dec. 11 in a fire at his home in East Fishkill, N.Y. He was 74. The police said the cause of death was smoke inhalation. Mr. Johns was born Horace Eugene Johnston in L
 Stefan Heym, the widely published author of more than a dozen historical and political novels, died yesterday while on a lecture tour in Israel. He was 88 and lived in Berlin. A Jew uprooted in Germany in 1933 by the Nazis, Mr. Heym became an intellectual nomad and a lifelong Marxis
 Adm. Ulysses S. Grant Sharp Jr., the commander in chief of the United States Pacific Command in the Vietnam War and an outspoken critic of how the war was fought, died on Wednesday at home in San Diego. He was 95. Admiral Sharp, a decorated veteran of three wars, was appointed by Pr
 Anthony Gigliotti, a mainstay of the Philadelphia Orchestra sound as principal clarinetist for 47 years and a polymath of the instrument who trained generations of colleagues, died on Dec. 3 at a hospital in Camden, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Cherry Hill, N.J. The cause was complic
 Gilbert Bécaud, a popular French crooner and prolific songwriter whose song ''Et Maintenant'' became a worldwide hit in English as ''What Now My Love,'' died in Paris today on his houseboat on the Seine. He was 74. Friends reported that the cause was cancer. Mr. Bécaud, wh
 Peter Elias, a theorist in the field of information and computer science, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 78. The cause was Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a nervous system disorder, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a senior lectu
 Rufus Thomas, the jovial patriarch of Memphis soul, who billed himself as the ''world's oldest teenager,'' died on Saturday at 84. He died at St. Francis Hospital in Memphis after a short illness, said Marcy Vaughn Perkins, his niece. As a singer, songwriter, talent scout, d
 Harrison Mosher Hayford, a leading expert on Herman Melville, died on Dec. 10 in Evanston, Ill. He was 85. A professor of English at Northwestern University for 43 years, he was general editor of the multivolume Northwestern-Newberry edition of ''The Writings of Herman Melville,'' p
 José Fajardo, a Cuban flutist who was one of the most influential bandleaders in Latin music, died on Dec. 11 in Jersey City. He was 82 and lived in West New York, N.J. The cause of death was an aneurysm, said his wife, Miriam. Mr. Fajardo greatly expanded the audience for 
 Dr. Leonard T. Kurland, a neurologist who mined the science of epidemiology for techniques that led to new thinking about diseases in his field and others, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Rochester, Minn. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Kurland, a
 Samuel Meyers, a labor activist and longtime president of a union local representing automobile workers in the New York area, died at 83 last Saturday in Deerfield Beach, Fla., where he had a winter home. He was a resident of Marine Park, Brooklyn. The cause was cardiac arrest, his 
 Conte Candoli, a jazz trumpeter who gained national renown as a musical mainstay of the ''Tonight'' show in the Johnny Carson era, died last Friday in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Bermuda Dunes, Calif. The cause was cancer, his family said. Born Secondo Candoli
 Léopold Sédar Senghor, a poet, professor, philosopher and statesman who became the first president of Senegal when it gained independence from France, died yesterday at his home in Normandy. Mr. Senghor, one of the central figures in the political upheaval that led to freedom for France's
 Dick Schaap, the affable and ubiquitous journalist who introduced an 18-year-old Cassius Clay to Harlem, coined the term Fun City for New York and embodied the role of the ''as told to'' writer of autobiographies, including his own, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.       
 H. Peter Kriendler, who helped transform ''21'' from a speakeasy into one of Manhattan's most beloved and enduring restaurants, and for decades was its face, voice and ambassador, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 96 years old. . Mr. Kriendler, k
 Joseph Washington McGovern, whose long record of public service included six years as chancellor of the state Board of Regents, died Wednesday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Westchester. He was 92 and lived in Irvington, N.Y. Mr. McGovern, a New York lawyer who specialized in real esta
 Dan DeCarlo, a top cartoonist for Archie Comics for more than 40 years and a creator of the characters Josie and the Pussycats and Sabrina the teenage witch, died on Tuesday in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82, and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Josie. 
 C. Carwood Lipton, who was among the central figures in ''Band of Brothers,'' the book and television miniseries recounting the experiences of a World War II paratroop company, died on Dec. 16 at a hospital in Pinehurst, N.C. Mr. Lipton, of Southern Pines, N.C., was 81. The cause wa
 Foster Brooks, a comedian whose act as a lovable drunk made him a fixture on television and Las Vegas stages, died on Thursday at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Brooks, with silver hair and a beard, was a master at appearing as someone who had had too many cocktails and w
 John Guedel, a radio producer whose shrewd sense of public taste -- and not a little silliness -- enabled him to act as a midwife at television's birth and then as one of the new medium's most prominent nannies, died on Dec. 14 in Los Angeles. He was 88. Mr. Guedel produced shows li
 Robert Cronbach, a sculptor and medal artist, died Wednesday in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico, where he had lived for several years. He was 93. Over his nearly seven-decade career, Mr. Cronbach worked in styles both representational and abstract and specialized in public commissions
 Ardito Desio, an inveterate explorer who in 1954 meticulously organized the first ascent of K2, the world's second highest mountain, died on Dec. 12 in Rome. He was 104. A geologist, Professor Desio led scientific expeditions well into his 90's, visiting the slopes of Mount Everest,
 Edwin F. Russell, a former newspaper publisher who joined the Royal Navy to fight Germany before the United States entered World War II, died Saturday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. Mr. Russell, 87, was the chairman of The Patriot-News Company and the former publisher of The Harris
 Dr. Franco Dino Rasetti, who worked with the Nobel laureate Enrico Fermi and the select team of Italian scientists that discovered one of the key processes in nuclear reactions, died on Dec. 5 at a retirement home in Belgium. He was 100. The discovery, made in a laboratory at the Un
 Agha Shahid Ali, a Kashmiri-American poet who was a finalist for the 2001 National Book Award in Poetry, died on Dec. 8 at his brother's home in Amherst, Mass., where he was staying. He was 52 and had lived in Brooklyn. The cause was brain cancer, the publishing house W. W. Norton a
 Edward Willett Wagner, a professor of Korean studies at Harvard who founded its Korea Institute in 1981, died in Concord, Mass. on Dec. 7. He was 77 and lived in Lexington, Mass. He had Alzheimer's disease, The Boston Globe said. Professor Wagner, who retired in 1993, played
 Melvyn R. Paisley, a former top Navy official and a fighter ace who was involved in a military procurement scandal in the 1980's that involved bribery, bid rigging and insider advice, died on Dec. 19. He was 77 and lived in McLean, Va. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Vicki.    
 Monteria Ivey, who combined urban brashness with a sensitive ear for the inflections of real people to produce giggles and guffaws for live audiences, radio listeners and book readers, died on Dec. 13 in Manhattan. He was 41 and lived in Harlem. Stephan Dweck, who was his co-host on
 William Avery Crawford, an expert on Communist Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union who was United States ambassador to Romania and had important posts in the cold war, died on Dec. 14 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 86. A career Foreign Service officer, Mr. Crawford went to Roma
 Harvey Martin, the Dallas Cowboys star defensive end who was co-winner of the most valuable player award in the 1978 Super Bowl, died Monday at Baylor Medical Center in Grapevine, Tex. He was 51. The cause was pancreatic cancer, Maureen Porter, a spokeswoman for the medical center, 
 Edward Downes, the musicologist, lecturer, professor and critic, best known as the longtime host of the ''Texaco Opera Quiz'' heard during  the live Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts, died on Wednesday in his Manhattan home. He was 90. The opera quiz, in which panels of three oper
 Howard M. Squadron, who made himself one of the city's powerful lawyers by mixing an active law practice with liberal politics, support for the arts, a keen sense of public relations and ties to influential clients like Rupert Murdoch, died Wednesday night at his home in Riverdale, the Bron
 Dr. George Hoppin Humphreys II, who pioneered pediatric and chest surgery procedures and shepherded the surgical units at Columbia University through two decades of robust growth, died on Dec. 18 at his home in West Dover, Vt. He was 98. Dr. Humphreys retired in 1969 after 23 years 
 Edward G. Jordan, who helped to lift the remnants of several railroad freight lines out of bankruptcy as the first chairman and chief executive of Conrail, died on Wednesday at his vacation home in Bend, Ore. He was 72. Mr. Jordan, who also had a home in the San Francisco area, had 
 Lance Loud, the eldest son in a Santa Barbara, Calif., family that took on unwanted fame in a ground-breaking 1973 public television documentary, ''An American Family,'' died on Dec. 22 at a hospice in Los Angeles. He was 50. The cause was complications from hepatitis C, his family 
 Msgr. Bryan Oliver Walsh, who played a crucial role in Operation Pedro Pan, which conveyed 14,000 Cuban children to Florida early in the 1960's, died on Dec. 20 in a Miami hospital. He was 71 and had long been active in the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Miami. The cause was cardiac 
 Msgr. Mattia Pei Shangde, a Catholic priest imprisoned for his loyalty to the pope, died of kidney failure on Monday at a hospital in Zhangjiakou, a city near Beijing, the Vatican said. He was 83. Considered by some to be the unofficial bishop of Beijing, Monsignor Pei had been unde
 Dr. Charles Kenneth McSherry, a New York surgeon who pioneered a simpler way to remove gallstones and was a leading researcher into gallstone formation and cancer of the colon, died on Dec. 13 at New York Hospital. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was kidney and
 Hank Soar, an outstanding two-way back for the football Giants, a coach in pro basketball and a longtime American League umpire, died Monday in Pawtucket, R.I. He was 87. In forging a professional sports career that spanned a half-century, Soar scored the winning touchdown in a Nati
 John Wilkinson Taylor, who held high posts in Unesco and was president of the University of Louisville, died on Dec. 11 in Denver. He was 95 and had lived in Chicago. As Unesco deputy director general and, for a time, acting director general in the 50's, Dr. Taylor emphasized ending
 Reginald Pollack, a painter and printmaker, died on Dec. 6 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 77. Mr. Pollack was born in New York and first studied art with Moses Soyer at the High School of Music and Art. During World War II he served in the 87th Mountain Infantry and afte
 Judge Theodore J. Labrecque Jr., who presided over many highly publicized criminal trials in New Jersey, died on Dec. 23 at a hospital in Long Branch, N.J. The cause was cancer, the family said. A Superior Court judge for 14 years, Judge Labrecque had just retired on Dec. 4,
 Dr. Walter John Moore, a physical chemist, textbook author and biographer, died on Dec. 20 in Bloomington, Ind. He was 83. The cause was heart disease and kidney failure, his family said. His book ''Physical Chemistry'' (Prentice-Hall, 1950) remained a standard text for more
