 Hugh Davis Graham, a scholar of modern American history who was co-director of a notable 1969 study for the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence, died on Tuesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 65. The cause was complications from cancer of the es
 Laurance P. Roberts, a scholar of Asian art who served as director of the Brooklyn Museum and later of the American Academy in Rome, died on March 10 at his home in Baltimore. He was 95. After working as assistant curator of Oriental art at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and studyin
 R. V. Cassill, the man of letters who was a novelist, short-story writer, editor, book reviewer and teacher of creative writing, died last Monday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 82 and lived in Providence and Truro, Mass. The author of 24 novels and 7 collections of s
 Albert E. Jeffcoat, a former Wall Street Journal foreign correspondent who founded the Manhattan Theater Club in New York City, died on March 10 at his home on Bainbridge Island, Wash. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Jan. While working for the Wall Street Jou
 Ed Turner, who was instrumental in creating round-the-clock television news and making CNN a household name, died on Saturday at a hospital in Washington. A former resident of Atlanta, he was 66 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was complications from liver cancer, CNN said.  
 Neal E. Miller, an experimental psychologist whose conviction that the brain affects human behavior led him to conduct groundbreaking work in biofeedback, died on March 23. He was 92 and lived in a retirement community in Hamden, Conn. Dr. Miller, who taught for years at Yale and Ro
 Benjamin Harkarvy, director of the dance division of the Juilliard School since 1992 and an internationally respected ballet teacher, director and choreographer, died on Saturday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Harkarvy, who had been receiving treatment
 George M. Szabad, a lawyer, businessman and former member of the board of governors of the American Jewish Committee, died on March 30 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 85. Mr. Szabad, a longtime resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., was also a former president of the committee's Westches
 Horace A. Shepard, a former chief executive and chairman of TRW, died on March 5 at his home in Leary, Ga. He was 89. Mr. Shepard worked for TRW or a predecessor company for 26 years. TRW makes automotive, aerospace and military products. He joined Thompson Products, which made airc
 John U. Monro, a white educator who gave up one of the most prominent jobs in academia, dean of Harvard College, to take a low-level, low-paying administrative and teaching job with an impoverished black college in Alabama, died on Friday in LaVerne, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Monro surp
 Dr. Albert Edward Whitford, an astronomer who helped map the Milky Way galaxy and measure the brightness of stars in it and beyond it, died on March 28 in Madison, Wis., where he had returned in retirement six years ago. He was 96. Before moving back to Wisconsin, he was an emeritus
 Franklin S. Forsberg, a publishing executive and former ambassador to Sweden, died last Friday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 96 and lived in Greenwich. After holding executive positions with Street & Smith Publications, Mr. Forsberg became a United States Army colonel in World War II a
 Wolfgang F. Stolper, an economist who more than 60 years ago inspired a theory about international trade that to this day helps to explain its effect on national economies, died on Sunday in Ann Arbor, Mich., where he lived. He was 89. The breakthrough insight, known as the Stolper-
 Clark Jones, a director from the earliest days of television, died on March 28 at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 81. Mr. Jones directed many of television's first large-scale live arts programs, including a 1952 broadcast of ''Carmen'' from the Metropolitan Opera, ''Peter Pan'' w
 James H. Karales, the photojournalist whose 1965 picture of determined marchers outlined against a lowering sky became a pictorial anthem of the civil rights movement, died on Monday. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his wife, Monica, said. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.
 Dr. John Robinson Pierce, a visionary electrical engineer and acoustics expert who headed the team that invented the transistor and was a major force behind Echo I, the world's first communications satellite, died on Tuesday in Sunnyvale, Calif. He was 92. Dr. Pierce considered the 
 Norman S. Hirschl, a founder of the Hirschl & Adler Galleries in Manhattan and an American paintings expert, died at his home in Williamstown, Mass., on Tuesday. He was 86. Mr. Hirschl was born in New York on June 22, 1915, and grew up in Queens. He attended City College from 1932 u
 Edward Irving Levy, a composer and professor of music at Yeshiva University in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from pancreatic cancer, said his friend and colleague Noyes Bartholomew.    
 Herbert Kesner, a former head of the news broadcast desk at The New York Times, died on Monday at a hospital in Lebanon, Pa. He was 89 and lived in Manheim, Pa. For many years, Mr. Kesner headed the staff that wrote news broadcasts for The Times's classical radio station, WQXR, whic
 Marvin Honig, a leading creative talent in the so-called golden age of advertising in the 1960's and 70's, died on March 28 at his home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 66. The cause was complications related to multiple sclerosis, said his daughter, Jo Honig. Mr. Honig joined Doyl
 Roy Huggins, a producer and writer whose witty long-running television series helped the medium grow up in the 1950's and 60's, died on Wednesday in Santa Monica, Calif, where he lived. He was 87. In a television career that spanned more than four decades, his hits included ''Maveri
 William Diebold, an economist who spent his career at the Council on Foreign Relations, shaping and studying the international economic order after World War II, died on Tuesday at his home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. He was 84. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.     
 Wylie F. L. Tuttle, an American real estate developer who played a major role in the construction of what was in 1972 the tallest office building in Europe, died on Friday at his home in Rock Hall, Md. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Janet. Mr. Tuttle was pre
 Ralph J. Marino, a courtly Republican from Long Island who served for 26 years in the New York Senate and was the state's most powerful Republican during 6 years as majority leader in the late 1980's and early 1990's, died yesterday at Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 7
 Dean F. Bumpus, an oceanographer who for decades showered the Atlantic with tens of thousands of empty bottles to decipher its currents, died March 14 at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 89. ''I'm the world's greatest litterbug,'' he once said. In fact, Mr. Bumpus had a 
 Ralph J. Marino, a courtly Republican from Long Island who served for 26 years in the New York Senate and was the state's most powerful Republican during 6 years as majority leader in the late 1980's and early 1990's, died Saturday at Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 74
 Raven Chanticleer, a fashion designer, dancer, sculptor, storyteller, bon vivant, and the founder, craftsman and proprietor of the Harlem African-American Wax and History Museum, died March 31. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. For a dozen years, Mr. Cha
 J. Russell Elkinton, editor emeritus of Annals of Internal Medicine, which he helped shape into a world leader among medical journals, died on Saturday in Concord, Mass. A resident of Bedford, Mass., he was 91. A former professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. El
 William Alexander Stewart, a Hawaiian-born Scot who grew up multilingual in California and became an authority on creole languages, in particular Gullah, the West African-flavored speech of of the Sea Islands off South Carolina and Georgia, died on March 25 at Columbia-Presbyterian Center i
 Dr. Fredrick J. Stare, a leading nutritionist who wrote extensively about healthful eating and was among the first to conduct scientific studies of the links between diet and heart disease, died last Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 91. An emeritus professor of nutrit
 Hans J. Frank, a former partner in the international law firm now called Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson and a tax expert who helped fellow victims of Nazism, died on March 29 at his home on the West Side of Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Frank came to the United States from Ger
 James F. Bradley Jr., whose late-night brainstorm as a Navy officer led to the development of a system for tapping into Soviet submarine communications, died on March 3 at a nursing home in McLean, Va. He was 81. The cause was complications from a heart attack, family members said. 
 Burton G. Tremaine Jr., a business executive who managed his family's large art collection and philanthropic foundation, died last Saturday in New Orleans. He was 79 and lived in Johns Island, Vero Beach, Fla. His father and stepmother, Burton G. Tremaine Sr. and Emily Hall Tremaine
 Henry J. Kasperowicz, whose work for Allen B. DuMont Laboratories in Passaic, N.J., resulted in one of the early patents for a color television tube, died on March 31 in his home in Vista, Calif. He was 84. Mr. Kasperowicz was a young laboratory worker at DuMont when the patent on h
 Barry Took, a zany shining light of postwar British comedy who put together the team that became Monty Python's Flying Circus, died on March 31 in London. He was 73. Reports in the British press said that the cause was cancer of the esophagus. Mr. Took's long career included
 Robert G. McGruder, the executive editor of The Detroit Free Press, died of cancer on Friday at a hospice in a Detroit suburb. He was 60. Mr. McGruder was known for his efforts in breaking down racial barriers in the newspaper industry by encouraging newspapers to hire staffs that r
 The Rev. Francis X. Murphy, who gave the public a frank and sometimes irreverent inside look at the deliberations of the historic Second Vatican Council under the pseudonym Xavier Rynne, died on Thursday in Annapolis, Md. He was 87. Mr. Murphy had been writer in residence since 1985
 Frank Tovey, an innovative English musician who recorded electronic and industrial music in the 1980's using the name Fad Gadget, died on April 3 at his home in London. He was 46. The cause was a heart ailment, said Roberta Moore, a spokeswoman at his record label, Mute. Mr. Tovey h
 Harvey Quaytman, an abstract painter, died last Monday in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his art dealer, David McKee. Mr. Quaytman's painting combined austere geometry and a quietly hedonistic sensuality of surface and color. His spare, layered compositions
 Richard H. Hadley, a real estate developer in the Pacific Northwest and Hawaii who bought the ocean liner United States -- one of the biggest, fastest ships -- as a potential floating condominium complex, died March 19 in Honolulu. He was 80. His wife, Barbara, said he collapsed two
 Adrian Evans, the chief executive of the London partnership of Lazard L.L.C., died Sunday morning of a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the bank said today. He was 60. Better known for his skill as a manager than as a deal maker, Mr. Evan's steely charm helped steer the investment ba
 Byron R. White, the football legend who became one of the longest serving justices of the United States Supreme Court, died yesterday in Denver. He was 84, and the only living former Supreme Court justice. The cause was complications from pneumonia, a statement from the Supreme Cour
 J. William Stanton, a former Republican congressman from Ohio who went on to focus on development and international banking issues, died on Thursday at a hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 78. The cause was complications from pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Stanton lived
 Damon Knight, a prolific science fiction writer and editor whose wry humor found its biggest audience in ''To Serve Man,'' a short story that was adapted into a beloved episode of ''The Twilight Zone,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Eugene, Ore., his family said. He was 79 and lived in Eu
 Elmer Angsman, who set a National Football League postseason rushing record when his Chicago Cardinals defeated the Philadelphia Eagles in the 1947 championship game, died last Thursday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 76. Angsman, who lived in Juno Beach, Fla., and Chicago, had a he
 F. Kenneth Iverson, the former chief executive of the Nucor Corporation, who revolutionized the steel industry and turned his steel mini-mill into the nation's largest steel producer, died on Sunday in Charlotte, N.C.. He was 76. Daniel R. DiMicco, Nucor's chief executive, declined 
 Charles H. Mullen, chairman and chief executive of the American Tobacco Company at a difficult time, died Sunday at a Stamford, Conn., hospital. He was 74 and lived in Darien, Conn. The family did not announce a cause of death. He retired in 1992 as chairman and chief execut
 David Saity, who made his Manhattan jewelry store famous for selling the biggest and brightest examples of American Indian jewelry, died on Monday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 71. The family did not announce a specific cause of death. Mr. Saity was
 Dr. Hans Neurath, a biochemist who advanced modern protein science to explain the makeup and workings of some of life's elemental building blocks, died on Friday in Seattle. He was 92. The founding chairman of the department of biochemistry at the University of Washington medical sc
 Walter S. Wurzburger, an Orthodox rabbi who was a leader in theological dialogue with thinkers in other branches of Judaism and with Christians, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Lawrence, N.Y. Rabbi Wurzburger, trained as both a rabbi and a
 Cyrus Colter, whose novels and short stories were about the black working class and middle class, died on Monday in Evanston, Ill. He was 92. Mr. Colter began writing fiction in middle age, after practicing law, holding government posts and heading the African-American studies depar
 Thor Heyerdahl, the Norwegian anthropologist and adventurer whose imagination and vigor brought him acclaim navigating the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian Oceans to advance his controversial theories of ancient seafaring migrations, died yesterday. He was 87. Mr. Heyerdahl died of canc
 Wesley J. Howe, the former chief executive, president and chairman of Becton Dickinson & Company, a major maker of medical devices and diagnostic systems, died on March 30 at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J. He was 80. He had suffered from Lou Gehrig's disease, The Star-Ledger of Ne
 James S. Martin Jr., the aeronautical engineer who oversaw the twin missions that produced the first maps and close-up pictures of Mars, died on Sunday in Rising Sun, the small town in far northeastern Maryland where he lived. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said the Langley Resear
 Richard G. Kraus, a New York native who so loved square dancing that he christened himself Texas Dick and became a leading square dance caller and then transformed himself into a much-published authority on recreation, died on March 28 at his home in Lower Gwynedd Township, Pa. He was 78.  
 Rudolf Kapustin, an air crash investigator whose career stretched from the 1963 crash that killed Patsy Cline to the A-300 crash in Queens last November, died on Wednesday at his home in Columbia, Md. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. As an investi
 Staley T. McBrayer, a publisher of small Texas newspapers and a tinkerer who turned a castoff offset press designed to print small circulars into a printing press that revolutionized the industry, died on Sunday in Fort Worth. He was 92. His press, which was cobbled together from bi
 Layne Staley, the lead singer of the pioneering grunge band Alice in Chains, was found dead on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 34 years old. Alice in Chains was one of the first grunge bands to gain national attention. Beginning with its 1990 EP, ''We Die Young,'' the group sa
 Randy Tufts, who with a friend stumbled upon Kartchner Caverns, an untouched subterranean wonderland of geological creativity, and then kept it secret for 14 years, until he was confident that it would be protected, died on April 1 in Tucson. He was 53. The cause was myelodysplastic
 Reginald Rose, the television playwright best known for writing and co-producing the movie ''Twelve Angry Men,'' died Friday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 81. Mr. Rose stood out among writers in television's golden age for his willingness to tackle social and political issu
 Josef Svoboda, a Czech stage designer who combined an architect's precision, a technician's ingenuity and an artist's vision to evoke magically imaginary worlds in more than 700 theatrical productions, died on April 8 in Prague. He was 81. Jarka M. Burian, his biographer, said he ap
 Layne Staley, the lead singer of the pioneering grunge band Alice in Chains, was found dead on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 34. Duane Fish, a spokesman for the Seattle Police Department, said that when the police were called on Friday to check on Mr. Staley, officers forcib
 Ogden Phipps, the financier and sportsman who became the pillar of horse racing in New York in the middle years of the 20th century, died yesterday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 93. Mr. Phipps was the central figure in a family dynasty built on steel, investment bank
 Willis J. Winn, a former Federal Reserve Bank official and Wharton School dean who helped shape the country's economic policies in the 1960's and 1970's, died on April 11 at a hospital in Kansas City, Mo. He was 84 and lived in Trimble, Mo. He suffered a stroke, his family said.    
 Jay Chiat, the coolly cerebral and fiercely passionate executive who helped transform the advertising industry in the 1970's and 1980's with creative campaigns like ''1984'' for Apple and ''I Love L.A.'' for Nike died yesterday at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 70. Mr. Ch
 Paul Grimes, a former editor, foreign correspondent and travel columnist for The New York Times, died yesterday in Abington, Pa. He was 77 and lived in Glenside, Pa. The cause was complications from hip surgery after a fall, his family said. He had been in failing health, undergoing
 Alan Dale, the Brooklyn-born baritone who crooned his way to popularity in the late 1940's and the 1950's with hits like ''Oh, Marie'' and ''Cherry Pink (and Apple Blossom White),'' died on Saturday at a hospital in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Mr. Dale, who lived in Sheepshead Bay, was 73.        
 Herbert Wernicke, an innovative German opera director and designer, died on April 16 in Basel, Switzerland. He was 56 and lived in Basel. The cause was a lung embolism, a Metropolitan Opera spokeswoman said. Mr. Wernicke worked frequently at the opera house in Basel, where h
 Victor F. Weisskopf, a nuclear physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project to build the first atomic bomb in World War II and later became an ardent advocate of arms control, died on Monday at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 93. Dr. Weisskopf was one of the first physicists to wa
 Wahoo McDaniel, who capitalized on his American Indian heritage as a football player and then a professional wrestler, died last Thursday at a hospital in Houston. He was 63. McDaniel was on the waiting list to receive a kidney when he died because of complications arising from rena
 Frank Moore, a painter and AIDS activist whose jewel-like allegories brought beauty and bite to themes of scientific progress, environmental pollution and the medical establishment, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan and Deposit, N.Y. The cau
 Paul Georges, an American painter best known for his large-scale figurative allegories and satirical self-portraits, died on April 16 in Normandy, France, where he had a home. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said Andrew Kelly, the vice president of Salander-O'Reilly Galleri
 Col. William E. Barber, who won the Medal of Honor for his leadership of a vastly outnumbered company under siege on a snowy hilltop in one of the worst defeats in Marine history, the Battle of the Chosin Reservoir in 1950, died on April 19 at his home in Irvine, Calif. He was 82. T
 John Rohrbeck, who oversaw the television stations owned and operated by NBC from 1991 to 1997, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. He had bladder cancer, said Terry Kassel, a friend. From 1991 to 1997, Mr. Rohrbeck had the title of president o
 Dr. Oreste Piccioni, a combative and controversial pioneer in particle physics and one of the discoverers of the antineutron, died on April 13 at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 86. Dr. Piccioni gained renown for important theoretical work and for an experiment he conduct
 Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza, the Swiss industrial magnate who used his fabulous art collection to court fame and controversy, died yesterday in Spain. He was 81. Baron Thyssen suffered a heart attack early yesterday morning, the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid reporte
 Aleksandr I. Lebed, a blunt-spoken Soviet paratroop commander who later played a crucial supporting role in the birth of Russian democracy, was killed today in a helicopter crash in far southern Siberia. Mr. Lebed, who had turned 52 last week, was governor of central Russia's sprawl
 Leonard Marx, a longtime developer and manager of commercial real estate properties throughout the United States and Canada, died on April 12 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 97. When he died, he was president of the Marx Realty and Improvement Company, based in Manhattan, whic
 Nathan Turk, who at 10 fell in love with the horse of Mendel the iceman on the Lower East Side and went on to own the Rocking Horse Ranch Resort -- one of the nation's largest dude ranches, with more than 100 horses -- died on the ranch in Highland, N.Y., on April 10. He was 72. The
 Dr. Robert Edward Rothenberg, a surgeon and the author of more than a dozen popular medical books, died on April 10 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 93. Dr. Rothenberg retired in 1998 as director of surgical research at Cabrini. He previously was chief of surgery at th
 Rudolph de Harak, an influential designer whose many prominent projects included the timeline and typographic displays for the Egyptian Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the futuristic entryway for the quirkily embellished office building at 127 John Street in Lower Manhattan, died
