 George Hall, a character actor who performed for more than six decades on Broadway and stages elsewhere, on television and in movies, died on Oct. 21 in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after a stroke, said Christopher Alden, a friend.   
 Noel Regney, who helped write the beloved Christmas song ''Do You Hear What I Hear?'' died last Sunday in Brewster, N.Y. He was 80. He wrote the seasonal standard with Gloria Shayne, then his wife, in 1962. It was recorded by Bing Crosby and Perry Como, among others, in more than 12
 BIGEL-Jacob (Jack). Age 89, on Nov. 28th, 2002. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Jonathan Bigel and Elizabeth Meyers and dedicated father-in-law to Barbara Bigel, adored grandfather of Jordan, Daniel, Deborah, Michael and David and greatgrandfather to Jonah, Rachel, Alexander, And
 BOUSEL-Jerry. In Tucson, AZ, on November 26 at the age of 63 after a courageous battle with a lengthy illness. All of us will miss him.       
 CROSS-William R. Jr. President of The Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation from 1976 until 1996, and a Director from 1955 until 1997. During his many decades of devoted service and drawing upon his years of experience as a banker he helped the Foundation evolve from its origins in 1914, w
 D'OENCH - Russell (Derry) G., Jr. Age 75, November 24, Middletown, CT. Editor and co-owner of The Middletown Press from 1959 to 1991. Survived by his wife of 53 years, Ellen Gates D'Oench; three children, Peter G. D'Oench of Cooper City, FL, Ellen D. Ruimerman of Higganum, CT, and Russell G
 FABIAN-Donald L. Age 83. He was a Spanish language and literature professor at Macalester College in Saint Paul, MN, from 1965 to 1984. For information: Werness Brother Funeral Home, phone 612-927-8641.       
 FIRESTONE-Justin R., 32. Teacher of children, model ship-builder, student of classical architecture. Justin studied art history at Dartmouth College where he was a member of the Alpha Chai Alpha Fraternity and President of the Honor Society, Fire and Skoal. He was a caring teacher who touch
 HOFFMAN-Gerson. 85, formerly of Brooklyn and South Hempstead, NY, died November 27, 2002, in North Miami Beach, FL. Jerry was deeply loved by his wife of 62 years, Jean, daughter Susan and her husband Frank, son Ed and his wife Diana, grandchildren Devrie and Jared, and several nieces and n
 ILARDI-Onofrio A., M.D. Passed away suddenly from this life on November 28, 2002, at the age of 94. He leaves behind his loving and devoted wife of 60 years, Frances (nee Salmeri). A practicing physician for 49 years in Ozone Park, retiring in 1983. He served as a Captain in the 7th Armored
 JACOBS-Herman. Age 90, on November 25, 2002. Beloved and loving husband of the late Berenice, father of Michael and Judith Huff, M.D., grandfather of Ethan. Cherished brother-in-law of Elaine and Robert Shulman and Anne and Lester Klepper. Devoted son of the late Abraham and Ella. A hero to
 KALB-Roland J. He lived his life with honor, grace and devotion to help others in need. He leaves a legacy and model of compassion, fortitude and courage with a single minded purpose to assisting others exemplified by the Oskar Kalb Foundation for Children and The Center for Preventive Psyc
 MOSKOWITZ-Morris. Age 91, passed away on November 29. ''Whitey,'' ''Buddy''. Devoted husband and father, extraordinary grandfather and great-grandfather. A self educated man, he was the founder of the industry leading, eponymous maker of fine leather handbags and accessories. A man committe
 POOLE-Charles S., M.D. Died peacefully on his 90th birthday, November 25th in Somers, NY after more than a decade-long courageous and dignified struggle with Parkinson's disease. Born in NYC in 1912, he received his B.S from NYU Heights College, his M.D. from NYU medical College and was a D
 REINHARDT - Sheldon. On November 29, 2002. Beloved husband of Rosalie (nee Napack). Dear father of Harlan and daughter-in-law Dale. Loving twin brother of Burton Reinhardt and his wife, Diana. Cherished uncle and great uncle. Services Sunday, December 1, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th S
 SCHWARTZ-David. In Salem, MA, formerly of NYC, entered into rest, November 23rd, age 79. Retired Deputy Commissioner of Probation for the City of NY, husband of the late Henriette (Lobel) Schwartz. The son of the late Harry and Bella (Leichman) Sugar. He is survived by a son Dr. William A. 
 TAXEL - Manuel. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Madeleine, Joel and Susan, adoring grandfather of Gregg, Samantha, Michael, Alex and Elizabeth, and great-grandfather of Nathan and Zachary, died on November 24 at age 85 at his home in Brooklyn, New York. He served his country with
 WHARTON-Robert H., M.D. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Robert H. Wharton, MD, a prestigious pediatrician at MassGeneral Hospital For Children and Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Boston, and the son of Irving L. Wharton of Floral Park, NY, an hono
 WOLF-Louis. 96. Survived by his children Marilyn and Charles. He was married 63 years to his beloved, late wife Edith. He will be missed by his grandchildren Stephanie, David, Howard, Warren and Lori, and his great-granddaughters Rachel, Melodie, Talia, Elizabeth, Zoe and Arielle. Funeral i
 Philip B. Meggs, a scholar of graphic and advertising design who wrote the first full history of the field, from the time of Gutenberg to the postmodern era, died on Nov. 24 in Richmond, Va. He was 60. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Libby Phillips Meggs. Mr. Meggs, w
 Amilcar de Castro, a sculptor who captured Brazil's tempestuous contradictions in geometric parables of massive iron sheets, died on Nov. 22 in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. He was 82. Mr. Castro, a towering figure in Brazil's art scene, gained prominence in the postwar period when Brazil
 Charles Dupuis, a pioneering Belgian publisher of French-language comics best known in the United States for introducing the blue-hued, hedonistic animated characters called Smurfs, died on Nov. 14 in Brussels. He was 84. An influential editor, he published other popular characters,
 Capt. Edward L. Beach, the skipper of the nuclear-powered submarine Triton when it made history's first round-the-world undersea voyage in 1960 and the author of the best-selling war novel ''Run Silent, Run Deep,'' died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 84. The cause was c
 Ernest S. Leiser, a television news reporter and producer for CBS who won acclaim for his coverage of Eastern Europe during the cold war and helped direct the network's transition to television from radio, died on Tuesday at his home in South Nyack, N.Y. He was 81. The cause was con
 FADEM-Herman. The family, friends and business associates of Herman Fadem mourn his death on December 1, 2002, at age 93, following a long, hardworking and productive life. He was an adored and loving husband to Zelda, and admired and beloved father of Richard, stepfather of Donald Meyer an
 TEPERMAN - Joseph H. Scholar, patriot, husband, and father. He was born in Russia in 1913, and emigrated to America in 1922. By the age of 16, he graduated valedictorian of DeWitt Clinton High School. Only a few years later, he obtained a JD from Brooklyn Law School and a DMD from Pittsburg
 Dave McNally, a star pitcher who took part in the 1975 labor grievance that created free agency in major league baseball, died Sunday at his home in Billings, Mont. He was 60. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. McNally, a left-hander, won at least 20 games for the B
 Edward Burling Jr., a retired senior partner of one of the largest law firms in Washington and an active Republican in his party's moderate wing, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Washington. He was 94. Mr. Burling was the son of Edward Burnham Burling, who with J. Harry Covington in 1
 Harold Howe II, who as the chief federal educator in the Johnson administration led the growing federal involvement in public schools, died last Saturday at a retirement home in Hanover, N.H. He was 84 and most recently lived in Concord, Mass. Mr. Howe was in the forefront of effort
 ANDERSON-Arnold S. ''Andy''. 82, of Old Greenwich, CT died peacefully on November 30, while in Newport, RI. Retired sales executive for Champion International, he was predeceased in 1994 by wife of 43 years, Sally Stilwell Anderson. Survived by devoted daughters Dr. Susan G. Anderson of Woo
 BAER-Leslie, M.D. The National Hypertension Association mourns the death of our dedicated trustee Les Baer, M.D. Dr. Baer was a superb and deeply caring physician who was devoted to the welfare of his patients. We will deeply miss his guidance and commitment. W.M. Manger, MD, PhD. Chairman 
 BIGEL-Jack. HIP Health Plans mourns the passing of Jack Bigel. His indelible im pact on New York City affairs, ranging from consulting and advising the city's labor unions to his key role in help ing to resolve the city's financial crisis in the mid 1970's, are exceptional landmarks of an o
 CLIFFORD - Rev. Brother Ralph, OSF on November 30, 2002. Beloved son of the late Rodger Clifford and Bridget Freeley. Loving brother of Frances Recker, Edward, William and the late John. Reposing at St. Francis Prep, 6100 Francis Lewis Blvd, Fresh Meadows, NY. Visiting Monday and Tuesday 2-
 FADEM-Herman. The family, friends and business associates of Herman Fadem mourn his death on December 1, 2002, at age 93, following a long, hardworking and productive life. He was an adored and loving husband to Zelda, and admired and beloved father of Richard, stepfather of Donald Meyer an
 FREIDENREICH - Jerome. Age 66, passed away on November 18, 2002 in Los Angeles, CA. Beloved and loving husband of the late Sondra, devoted father of Melissa. He will be greatly missed.       
 LEWISTON-Robert S. At age 93. Beloved husband of the late Josephine, devoted father of Janet L. Markel and Margaret Goodman. Adored grandfather of Heather Markel and Deborah Meister. Cherished father-in-law of William J. Cardew. Retired Lieutenant Colonel of U.S. Army Reserve and former Ass
 WALLER-Robert A. On December 1, 2002. Loving son of Gladys and Allen. Devoted father of Dana and Jamie. Beloved brother of R. Cass and sister-in-law Jill. Adored uncle of Tracy and Greg. Services will be held Wednesday December 4, 9:45AM at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Rd, Scar
 Henry Chauncey, founder of the Educational Testing Service who shaped the nation's standardized testing practices and through them, a new meritocracy, died yesterday at his home in Shelburne, Vt. He was 97. With the backing of his patron, James Bryant Conant, the president of Harvar
 John Luther McLucas, an electronics engineer in aviation and space technology who led the Air Force, the Federal Aviation Administration and several companies, died on Sunday in Alexandria, Va. He was 82. He had prolonged heart problems, Bill Brobst, a friend and colleague, told The
 Ivan Illich, a onetime Roman Catholic priest who, through a steady flow of books and articles preached counterintuitive sociology to a disquieted baby-boom generation, died on Monday at his home in Bremen, Germany. He was 76. Celia Samerski, a student of his at the University of Bre
 ALLEN-Andrew S., 60. Died of cancer December 1st in Passaic. A Harvard graduate with a Ph.D. in Linguistics from the University of California-Berkeley, he taught abroad in Togo, Benin and Saudi Arabia, and in this country at the University of Tennessee and Appalachian State University. He w
 BIGEL-Jack. The Municipal Labor Committee mourns the passing of the stalwart analyst and advisor whose research and knowledge helped guide the policies of the city's municipal unions for three decades. He was a friend and guide to several generations of city union leaders and we will miss h
 FIRESTONE - Justin. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the untimely death of Justin Firestone. We extend our deepest sympathy to his parents, Marsha and Monroe Firestone, his brother, Daren, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, Preside
 LINZER-Bruce. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the son of its devoted Trustee and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Saul Linzer and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President LINZ
 NORDEN-Carl F. On Saturday, November 30, 2002 at his home in Washington, DC. Distinguished Foreign Service Officer. Devoted husband of Vivian Archer Norden and predeceased by his first wife, Ellen Hartt Norden; father of Susan, Bettina, Elaina and Caroline; grandfather of Sarah W., stepfath
 STUART-Robert Whiten Sr., on December 1, 2002. He is survived by his beloved son, Robert Whiten Stuart Jr. and his daughter, Sandra Whiten Stuart. Also, his grandchildren, Natasha Southwick Knoll, Elizabeth Southwick Knoll and Selena House. He was a longtime resident of Palm Beach, Florida 
 WALLER - Robert. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the untimely death of Robert Waller. We extend our deepest sympathy to his parents, Gladys and Allen Waller, his brother, Cass, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard 
 WOLFSON-Alan. Age 62, died unexpectedly on December 2, 2002. He is survived by his wife Linda, daughter Alissa, son Lawrence, daughter-in-law Alison Katz Wolfson and his granddaughter, Isabel Sara Wolfson. A devoted husband, loving and caring father, and a doting grandfather he will be dear
 Achille Castiglioni, the Italian architect and designer whose infusions of wit into domestic objects like lamps and stools helped establish Italy as a leader in sophisticated modern design after World War II, died on Monday in Milan at age 84. He is survived by his wife, Irma, two d
 Boris Schapiro, a top British bridge player who was convicted of cheating in an international champi- onship match by the World Bridge Federation but later inconclusively exonerated by an independent British inquiry, died at his home in Buckinghamshire last Sunday. He was 93. At the
 CUNNINGHAM - Patrick J., December 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Mary. Devoted father of Stephen, Philip, Christine, Peter Paul, and Patrick Jr. Cherished grandfather of 11. Loving brother of Mary Hurley and Kay Smith. Dear friend of his administrative assistant, Marie Falco. He was a noted at
 GERSHFELD - Philip, of Marlboro, NJ, on December 3, 2002. Survived by his wife, Mildred; daughters, Carolyn and Barbara, and grandchildren. For information, Bloomfield-Cooper Jewish Chapels, 1-800-247-5235.       
 ILLICH-Ivan. The family and friends of Ivan Illich mourn his death on December 2, 2002 in Bremen, Germany. He was admired for his intellectual acumen, dedication to his mission, commitment to friendship and loyalty to his family and friends. He will be truly missed. Service to be held in Br
 PAPPER-Emanuel M., MD, PhD, passed away at age 87 on December 3, 2002 in Miami, FL. Dean Emeritus of the University of Miami School of Medicine. First Chairman of Anesthesiology at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Beloved husband of Patricia M. Papper. Loving father of Richard Papper a
 SPIEGEL-Daniel, 77, of Taconic, CT, in New York City, died at home from complications of bladder cancer December 4. Husband of 53 years to Marianne (Mickey); father of Jan and her husband Will Hochman of Branford, CT, Peter and his wife Billie of New York City, and Peggy of Philadelphia; gr
 WILSON-Ramsay. 78, of Old Lyme, CT, died December 3, 2002 at Middlesex Hospital, Middletown, CT. He was a partner at Naess & Thomas Investment Counselors in New York City which later became Schroder World Bank. There he stayed on as president until he retired. He leaves behind his wife, Ren
 Patrick J. Cunningham, the last of a line of Irish clubhouse politicians to lead the Bronx Democratic Party, until he faced several state and federal investigations, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of
 Bob Berg, the tenor saxophonist, was killed in a traffic accident yesterday in East Hampton, N.Y., where he lived. He was 51, and had played with Miles Davis, Horace Silver and Chick Corea, among others. His solo albums included ''Enter the Spirit'' and ''Back Roads,'' which was nom
 Dr. Emanuel Martin Papper, the founding chairman of the department of anesthesiology at Columbia University, died on Tuesday in Miami. He was 87 and had lived in Miami since moving from Riverdale, N.Y., in 1969. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said. The anest
 Mal Waldron, Billie Holiday's last accompanist and the composer of the jazz classic ''Soul Eyes,'' died on Monday in Brussels, where he had lived for about a decade. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his European management company said. Mr. Waldron's long career as a pianist
 U Ne Win, the longtime Burmese strongman who seized control of his country in a military coup in 1962 and set up an authoritarian government that transformed his homeland, once one of the most prosperous parts of the British Empire, into one of the world's poorest nations, died yesterday. H
 GOLLOBIN-William. February 5, 1905-December 5, 2002. Beloved father of Peter and Robert, brother of Ira. Devoted grandfather to Joanna, Elizabeth and Stephanie. His great integrity, innovative mind, profound understanding and compassion are an inspiration and guide to us all. Funeral servic
 O'MALLEY-Dennis Sean. Of San Antonio, formerly of Bay Shore, NY, on Wednesday, December 4, 2002. Before moving to Texas, he worked for Dascit/White & Winston, becoming its President. In 1978, Mr. O'Malley moved to San Antonio becoming President and CEO of Halo Distributing Company (Miller B
 PAPPER-Emanuel M., M.D. The boards, faculty, students and staff of Columbia University Health Sciences Division and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and colleague, Dr. Emanuel Papper. In 1949, Dr. Papper was appointed chairman of Columbia University's Depa
 SPIEGEL-Daniel, 77, of Taconic, CT, and New York City, died at home from complications of bladder cancer December 4. Husband of 53 years to Marianne (Mickey); father of Jan and her husband Will Hochman of Branford, CT, Peter and his wife Billie of New York City, and Peggy of Philadelphia; g
 STARK-Arthur. Arbitrator, died suddenly at his home Tuesday, December 3, 2002 at the age of 83. Mr. Stark was a native New Yorker. He is survivied by his wife Dorothy of 47 years, four children, four grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. A memorial service will be announced. ST
 TEPERMAN-Joseph H., J.D., D.M.D. The faculty and staff of NYU Medical Center extends deepest sympathies to our friend and colleague, Lewis Teperman, M.D., and to his family, on the death of his father, Joseph Teperman. Lawyer, dentist, and former instructor of forensic medicine at NYU Schoo
 VANDERBILT-Douglas R. Age 81. Died peacefully on December 3, 2002 at his home, attended by his family. Devoted husband to the late Mary Forsyth and father of Christine, Kim, Douglas, Kip, Lori, Chad, Peter and Bob Vanderbilt. Father-in-law to Julie, Tony and Gail. Loving grandfather to Doug
 WOLFSON-Alan. The Board of Governors and members of Willow Ridge Country Club sadly note the passing of Alan Wolfson, a distinguished member of this club. Our deepest condolences are offered to his wife, Linda, and to their entire family. Brad Mattes, President Board of Governors       
 Roone Arledge, the television industry executive and producer whose creativity, leadership and technical innovations revolutionized the presentation of both news and sports, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was complications from cancer, said ABC, his professional h
 Bill Sparks, the last survivor of the 10 British marines celebrated as the Cockleshell Heroes for their canoe-borne raid on German shipping in occupied France in World War II, died last Saturday in Alfriston, England. He was 80. On the evening of Dec. 7, 1942, five two-man teams of 
 Bob Berg, a tenor saxophonist who brought the speed and intensity of middle-period John Coltrane into a jazz-fusion context, died on Thursday in an automobile accident in Amagansett, N.Y., said Christine Martin, his friend and former manager. He was 51. Mr. Berg and his wife, Arja, 
 Edgar J. Scherick, a longtime film and television producer and executive, whose credits ranged from ''ABC's Wide World of Sports'' to films like ''The Stepford Wives'' and ''Rambling Rose'' and the recent HBO mini-series ''Path to War,'' died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 78. Th
 ARLEDGE-Roone P. On December 5, 2002. Beloved husband of Gigi, adored father of Elizabeth Arledge, Susan Arledge Weston, Patricia Arledge Loonie and Roone P. Arledge III. Stepfather to Catherine Shaw. Devoted grandfather of Benjamin and Charles Arledge, Taylor Weston, Parker Loonie and Mere
 CASTIGLIONI-Achille. The Museum of Modern Art notes with sadness the death of design master Achille Castiglioni. Mr. Castiglioni's ties to the Modern reach far back in time beginning with the acquisition of several of his early works and culminating with a 1997 retrospective. A pillar of th
 COHEN-Irwin ''RICK'' of Parsippany, formerly of Morris Plains, NJ on Friday December 6, 2002. A Founding Partner of the law firm of Cohen, Hurkin, Pomerantz and Tennenbaum. Husband of Cheryl Rosenberg Cohen. Father of Jenna Cohen of NYC and Brian and his wife, Heather Cohen of Philadelphia,
 DORSEY-Peter Robert. On December 6, 2002. Noted attorney at law in Flushing, NY for the past 50 years. Beloved husband of Lucille Dorsey, devoted father of Jan and William Bennett, Beth Dorsey and David Evertz. Cherished grandfather of Molly Bennett and Misha Evertz. Loving and lively, he t
 GILLIS-Howard T., Attorney. In New Haven, CT, December 4, 2002. Yale University Graduate, 1957. Age 67, of 27 Yowago Avenue, Branford, CT, survived by his wife Edwina (nee Cooney) Gillis. Also leaves three sons: Howard T. Gillis, Jr., Attorney Joseph L. Gillis and Attorney Edward M. Gillis,
 NEUHAUS - Joseph Rice. Passed away on Thursday, December 5, 2002. Born on February 1, 1917, Joe was a graduate of St. Paul's School and Yale University. He served in the US Army during World War II reaching the rank of Major, and was awarded the Bronze Star with oak leaf cluster and the Cro
 ROWAN-John V. Jr. In his hometown of San Antonio, TX. on December 2nd, 2002. Beloved friend of Karin and Eric Shrubsole.       
 SPIEGEL-Daniel. The directors, officers and employees of KSW Mechanical Services mourn the passing of our director and good friend, Dan Spiegel. Our relationship, over a 25-year period, has always been a source of inspiration to us. He will be sorely missed both professionally and personall
 Philip F. Berrigan, the former Roman Catholic priest who led the draft board raids that galvanized opposition to the Vietnam War in the late 1960's, died last night in Baltimore after a lifetime of battling ''the American Empire,'' as he called it, over the morality of its military and soci
 Pierre Peugeot, who made the automaker that bears his family name into a French industrial success story, died on Sunday in Paris. He was 70 years old. The company said that Mr. Peugeot had been ill for some time but could not provide additional details about the cause of death.    
 William Henson, an animator who helped bring the bulbous-nosed, dim-witted Bullwinkle the Moose to life, died earlier this week after being struck by a pickup truck on Monday in suburban Dallas. He was 78. A Dallas medical examiner announced the death on Thursday. Mr. Henson
 ARLEDGE - Roone. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a member of the Columbia College class of 1952. His leadership as a University Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and a 
 BOSS-Bob. 71, will be missed and remembered as a nurturing parent and as a steadfast friend to the many who loved him here and throughout the world. We'll recall his humor, his generosity, his music, his passionate beliefs about politics and humanitarian concerns, and his undaunted zest for
 COURSEN - William F. Passed away December 6, at his home in Princeton, NJ. Survived by his wife Janet Taylor, sons William, Thomas and John. Brother of Alice Coursen and the late Edwin Coursen. Brother-inlaw of Ann Colbert and five grandchildren. A retired vicepresident of Triangle Conduit 
 GALLAGHER - Patrick J., Esq. Formerly of Rockville Centre, NY, on December 6, 2002. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Bogart). Loving father of Cathy Sheehan (Christopher), Mary Ann Tralka (David). Cherished grandfather of 7. Dear brother of Vincent. Reposing Macken Mortuary, Rockville Centre, 52
 GILLIS-Howard T. Attorney. In New Haven, CT, December 4, 2002. Yale University Graduate, 1957. Age 67, of 27 Yowago Avenue, Branford, CT, survived by his wife Edwina (nee Cooney) Gillis. Also leaves three sons: Howard T. Gillis, Jr., Attorney Joseph L. Gillis and Attorney Edward M. Gillis, 
 GILMOUR-Jere D., 82. September 7th in Ogdensburg, NY. A charter member of the 1st New York Continental Chapter, Sons of the American Revolution, Capt. Gilmour was buried in Morris Town, NY. His compatriots mourn his death and extend condolences to his family. A. John Pappas, President      
 HOCKENBERRY - Raymond N. Jr. On November 21, 2002, in New Rochelle, NY. A longtime resident of Bronxville, NY, he was born February 21, 1913, in Portland, OR. Survivors include his children John Hockenberry of Bethesda, MD, Hope Yelich of Williamsburg, VA, and James Hockenberry of Princeton
 KARPOFF-Nathan. Beloved husband of Lillian, father of Sid and Marilyn, grandfather of Marissa and Hilary, died peacefully on Friday. He will always be remembered and loved.       
 MA-David. On November 24, at home in Chevy Chase, MD. He was a Partner in the firm of Ernst & Ernst and was instrumental in obtaining approval for his firm to be the first foreign accounting firm to open an office in China, which he headed until his retirement in 1981. Surviving are his wif
 MOAK-Stuart. Died on December 4, 2002, after a brief illness at age 78. He flew 79 missions as a WWII P-47 pilot. He was the last founding member of the P-47 Thunderbolt Pilots Association and had served as President and Jug Letter Editor. He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Helene, his
 REINHOLD-Louis E. Of Longboat Key, FL, and Lake Success, NY. Beloved husband of Esther Cumsky Reinhold, devoted father of Carole and husband Edward Rudman, Ellen and husband Emanuel Genauer. Grandfather of Jillian, Gary, Reid, Gabrielle and Cody. Louis was founder and president of Richmond 
 SHAW-Arvell. We mourn the passing of Arvell Shaw, a fine bassist and a great friend and colleague of Louis Armstrong for over 25 years. Our condolences to his family and to his many fans all over the world. Shaw's last appearance with Armstrong was with the Louis Armstrong All Stars in the 
 SILVA-Pedro. Don Pedro passed away on Tuesday, December 3rd, in Mazatlan, Mexico. Before retiring he was the owner of several Mexican restaurants on the Upper East Side, including El Mirador, El Azteca and El Sombrero. He is survived by his wife, Maria Coronel; his son, Eduardo, daughter-in
 SILVERN-Joseph C., 77. Beloved husband of Joan, (nee Lipman). Loving father of Paul (Judith) of Santa Monica, CA, Cathy of Pittsburgh, PA, Peter (Sherry) of Ottawa, IL and Matt (Kelly) of Madison, WI. Doting grandfather of Zach, Rachel, Natalie, Joshua, Madeline and Wyatt. A memorial servic
 SINGER - Hortense. Died peacefully on December 6, 2002, age 94. Beloved wife of the late Professor James Singer of Brooklyn College. Adoring mother of Richard, John and his wife Ruth. Grandmother of Daniel and Naomi. Sister of Florence Wacks.       
 SPIEGEL-Daniel. Our heartfelt sympathy to the family, friends and associates of our esteemed colleague, Dan Spiegel. To his wife Mickey, son Peter, and daughters Jan and Peggy, our sincere condolences and admiration. Dan was a valued member of the Tishman team for more than 25 years. He was
 TEPERMAN - Joseph H. Scholar, patriot, husband, and father. He was born in Russia in 1913 and emigrated to America in 1922. By the age of 16, he graduated valedictorian of DeWitt Clinton High School. Only a few years later, he obtained a JD from Brooklyn Law School and a DMD from Pittsburgh
 WARSHAW - Hortense. Of New York City, on December 7, 2002. Beloved mother of Peter and his wife Karen, and Bill and his wife Holly. Devoted grandmother of Drew, Beth, Lindsay, Lissa and Julie. Loving sister to Claire. Donations to the charity of one's choice.       
 Philip F. Berrigan, the former Roman Catholic priest who led the draft board raids that galvanized opposition to the Vietnam War in the late 1960's, died on Friday in Baltimore after a lifetime of battling ''the American Empire,'' as he called it, over the morality of its military and socia
 David E. Davis, a sculptor and advocate of the visual arts who created numerous large-scale public works in Cleveland and elsewhere, died Nov. 13 in Cleveland. He was 82. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Davis was born in Romania in 1920 and immigrated to Ohio in 1
 Jimmy Caras, who began playing pool at age 5 and went on to win four world championships and the United States Open, died Tuesday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 93. In a career that spanned six decades, Caras vied for supremacy in pocket billiards, as pool is formally known, with figu
 John V. Dennis, a naturalist who wrote an influential book on feeding birds, died on Dec. 1 at his home in Princess Anne, Md. He was 86. His book ''A Complete Guide to Bird Feeding'' was published in 1975 and republished in revised and updated form in 1994. It has been credited with
 ARLEDGE - Roone. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a member of the Columbia College class of 1952. His leadership as a University Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and a 
 CHESNER - Dr. Aaron. Passed away on December 7, 2002. A beloved husband to his wife Rachel, a loving father of Avi, Carmela and Bilha and a cherished grandfather to his eight grandchildren. An exceptional humanitarian and countryman who will be deeply missed by whoever knew him and loved hi
 COURSEN - William F. Passed away December 6, at his home in Princeton, NJ. Survived by his wife Janet Taylor, sons William, Thomas and John. Brother of Alice Coursen and the late Edwin Coursen. Brother-inlaw of Ann Colbert, daughterin-law of Linda Coursen, and five grandchildren. A retired 
 GREENLEAF-Joseph. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy S. Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi       
 JAFFE-Robert I. 86, died December 7, 2002. Beloved husband of Ruth and adoring father of Dr. Eric and Cecelia Jaffe. Cherished grandfather of Kya, Matthew and Alison, and great-grandfather to Mason. Robert loved to sail and was the former Commodore of the Hempstead Bay Sailing Club. Funeral
 KROLL-Jack. December 8, 2002. Age 95. Beloved husband of Ruth. Esteemed father of Martin, Roberta and David. Loving grandfather of Spencer, Barry, Jonathan, Richard and Evan. Adoring great-grandfather of six. He, along with two of his brothers, established Kroll Bros. Ice Cream Co. in 1932.
 McCANN-James J., 86, of West Hartford, CT, beloved husband of Edith D. (Wubbe) McCann, died Thursday (December 5, 2002) at St. Mary Home, West Hartford. He was born in Manhattan, NY, son of the late James J. McCann, Sr., and Susan (Cunningham) McCann and had lived on Long Island most of his
 Arvell Shaw, a swinging bassist whose thumping, straight-ahead style gave musical backbone to Louis Armstrong's genius for a quarter-century, died on Thursday at his home in Roosevelt, N.Y. He was 79. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said Cynthia Moton, his companion. 
 BAKER-Richard T. of Gulf Stream, FL and Lake Leelanau, Michigan passed away on December 7, 2002. Dick was born September 4, 1917 in Anderson, IN. His parents were Leslie & Rachel Baker. He was educated in the Anderson schools and became an avid basketball player and played on the state cham
 BERSON-Samuel. 90, of Deerfield Beach, FL, originally of Brooklyn, NY. Husband of Fran for 70 years. Beloved father of Lois Markowitz (Ed) & Judith Goldberg. Adored grandpa of Lisa, Amy, Suzanne & Andrew. Loving great grandpa to Adam & Julia, Marty & Evan. Self-made success in the garment i
 GLEYSTEEN-William H., Jr. The Officers, Directors and Staff of Japan Society mourn the passing of William H. Gleysteen, Jr., President of the Society from 1989-1995. One of America's leading experts on east Asia, Ambassador Gleysteen had a distinguished 30 year diplomatic career in the Stat
 GLUCK-Dr. Melvin C. Loving husband of 45 years. Respected father of three children. Adored grandfather of seven. Caring brother. Trusted friend to many, a devoted physician to many more. Died on December 9, 2002. Dr. Gluck valued tradition but embraced diversity. He loved his family, loved 
 HALPERIN-Max J. M.D. on December 9 in his 97th year. General practitioner in Flushing for over 50 years. Graduate of NYU School of Medicine. Beloved husband of the late Hannah and dearest father of his late son Lyle. Survived by his devoted son Ira C. Halperin, M.D. and daughters-in-law Amy
 KAMLET - Herbert. Senior partner of Herbert Kamlet and Co., CPA. Beloved husband of Aline; father of Esther, Dr. David; grandfather of Eric, Harold, Benjie, Adam, Jonathan and Lyndon; and great-grandfather. Pillar of Belle Harbor Jewish community. Known for his generosity and compassion. Wi
 LAUER-Rosalind. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its distinguished member Mr. Herbert Lauer. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 MAY-Ernest M. of Summit, NJ died on December 6, 2002, age 89. Larger than life in all qualities, he will be greatly missed by his family and many friends at Christ Hospital, Montclair State University and Youth Consultation Service (YCS). Over the years, Ernie became a passionate advocate f
 McCANN-James J., 86, of West Hartford, CT, beloved husband of Edith D. (Wubbe) McCann, died Thursday (December 5, 2002) at St. Mary Home, West Hartford. He was born in Manhattan, NY, son of the late James J. McCann, Sr., and Susan (Cunningham) McCann and had lived on Long Island most of his
 PHILIPS-Alvin. The Mt. Vernon Shabbas Group mourns the loss of founding member Alvin Philips. We'll miss him forever.       
 RAUCH-Theodore J. Beloved husband of Roberta. Cherished father of Karen & Jim Ryan and Eric Rauch. Devoted brother of Herbert & Doris Rauch. Devoted brother-in-law of Harlan & Lynn Taub. A highly respected computer consultant, he will be missed. Services today 9:30am at ''Boulevard-Riversid
 THALER-Evan. Cherished son of Carole and the late Sheldon. Beloved brother of Donald (Susan), Michael and Marla (Brad). Devoted uncle to Erica, Ashley, Stephanie and Saxon and loving friend. You touched our hearts with tender kindness. This world has lost a true champion. Forever in our hea
 TRAYNOR-Patrick P., CSP, on December 8, 2002 at age 67. Fr. Traynor was born and raised in Toronto, Canada. He was ordained at St. Paul the Apostle Church in New York City in 1968 by Archbishop John J. Maguire. His assignments included years in Good Shepherd Parish, Inwood Park, St. Paul th
 WOLFE-Robert T. 68 of Port Washington, NY, died surrounded by his family on December 8, 2002, of pancreatic cancer. Survived by his wife Diane, brother Chester Mayer, four children, three grandchildren, countless friends and colleagues. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, Manhasset, 
 Saburo Ienaga, the renegade Japanese historian who for more than 30 years fought his government's efforts to suppress details of Japan's wartime atrocities from school history books, with only partial success, died on Dec. 1 in Tokyo. He was 89. Dr. Ienaga's most important victory o
 By appointing William H. Donaldson to succeed the traumatized Harvey L. Pitt as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, President Bush has opted for a time-tested hand with some of the tightest Bush family links that Wall Street has to offer. And Wall Street is applauding the mo
 John Richard Dellenback, a four-term Oregon congressman, Peace Corps director and leader in Christian college education, died on Saturday at a hospital in Medford, Ore. He was 84 and lived in Medford. The cause was viral pneumonia, his family said. A prominent Rockefeller Re
 ARLEDGE - Roone. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a member of the Columbia College class of 1952. His leadership as a University Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and a 
 ARMATI-Leo F. Born December 8, 1913 Sydney, Australia, died December 1, 2002 Seymour, CT, following a long and successful journalistic career. Member of Foreign Press Assoc. for 58 years. Survived by daughter, Pamela (Brandy) Solomon of Rockville, MD, sons, Mark of Southbury, CT, John of Ma
 DIAMOND-Seymour, of New York City, died on December 9. He is survived by daughters Anne McNevins (Barnes) and Emily Hanlon (Mark), his grandchidren, Ned, William and Shane Hanlon and Gabrielle and Lizzie McNevins; his sister, Lillian Heller, and brother, Robert Diamond.       
 EHRLICH - Martin. Died peacefully at home on December 6, after a valliant battle with cancer. He is survived by his brother and sister-in-law, Avi and Miriam Ariel of Houston, TX, nieces Tali (Joseph) Navon of Houston and Zora Ariel Lepofsky of Toronto, nephew Tuval Ariel of New York and se
 GLUCK-Melvin C., M.D. The Department of Medicine of New York University School of Medicine notes with sadness the death of our colleague Dr. Melvin C. Gluck. A 1960 graduate of the NYU School of Medicine, resident and Chief Resident in Medicine at NYU Medical Center and Bellevue Hospital, D
 JAFFE - Herbert. Beloved son of the late Samuel and the late Anna Jaffe. Devoted brother of Phyllis Jaffe. Loving uncle of Richard Lentin. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Friday, December 13th, 11:30AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street. 
 MASTON-Harold Eugene. A native of Fort Worth, Texas and a resident of New York City for the past forty years, on Sunday, December 8, 2002, in his 75th year. The son of the late Dr. Thomas Buford Maston and Essie Mae McDonald Maston, he taught at the College of New Rochelle. Memorial service
 McCANN-James J., 86, of West Hartford, CT, beloved husband of Edith D. (Wubbe) McCann, died Thursday (December 5, 2002) at St. Mary Home, West Hartford. He was born in Manhattan, NY, son of the late James J. McCann, Sr., and Susan (Cunningham) McCann and had lived on Long Island most of his
 MERIN-Samuel, 94. Of West Hartford, CT, husband of the late Goldy (Kaufman) Merin, died Monday, December 9, 2002. He leaves a brother, David Merin of West Hartford, CT., and Florida. He was predeceased by his brothers: Moshe, Nathan, Leonard and Shiya, and a sister Miriam. He lost his first
 MEYER - Sidney. Beloved husband of Leonore (nee Salzman). Cherished father of Bonnie-Ellen (Henry) Zykorie and Linda (Martin) Levi. Adored grandfather of Lauren, Melissa, Beth and Garrett. Such a gentle loving man, he will be missed. Services private.       
 PELLER-Zelda. December 10. Devoted, loving wife of Perry. Beloved mother of Marshall and Alan. Loving mother-in-law to Lauren. Dear sister of Muriel and her husband Marvin. Cherished aunt to Tom and his wife Evelyn, Barbara, and Bruce and his wife Ruth. Graveside services are on Thursday, D
 PERGAMENT-Murray, 76. Of Old Westbury, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Irene for 53 years. Loving father of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Randi and Bruce Pergament; cherished grandfather of Jill and Jeff Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppel, Scott,
 RICE-Stan. Noted poet and painter, born November 7, 1942 in Dallas, Texas; died on December 9, 2002 in New Orleans after a four month fight with brain cancer. He was the beloved husband of Anne O'Brien Rice and the father of Christopher Rice and Michele Rice (deceased). He was the son of Mr
 RUFFO-Philip J. Of Baldwin, NY. Died December 9, 2002, at 86. Devoted husband of 40 years to the late Marie Palescandolo, he will be greatly missed by his three daughters, Martha Calise, Elissa Eye and Marie-Elena Ruffo, and three grandsons, Philip, William and Alex. He is survived by three
 To Huu, who was often called the poet laureate of the Communists' victories over the French and the Americans in Vietnam and who went on to high posts in the country's postwar government, died in Hanoi on Monday. He was 82. His death was reported yesterday by Agence France-Presse.  
 Allan Frumkin, a distinguished dealer in European and American modern art who had galleries in New York and Chicago for more than 40 years, died Monday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 75. The cause was complications from Crohn's disease, his family said. A wiry man and a cig
 Bill Miller, a nightclub owner who ran Bill Miller's Riviera in Fort Lee, N.J., before moving to Las Vegas and taking many headline acts with him, died on Monday in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 98 and lived in Palm Springs. After buying the nightclub in 1945, Mr. Miller booked Tony M
 J. A. Keller, who as head of the Mergenthaler Linotype Company helped it diversify as old hot-type printing technologies were supplanted, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Vero Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 84. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said.        
 Murray Pergament, who with his stepfather opened two paint-and-wallpaper stores in 1946 that grew into a chain of 40 home-supply stores in the New York City metropolitan area, died on Tuesday at a Brooklyn hospital. He was 76. The cause was complications of cancer, his son, Bruce, s
 AGNEW-Charles D. Of Wilton, CT, at home on December 10, 2002. Son of George B. Agnew, the former state senator from New York City, he was married to Jane Gillespie, who predeceased him. He was the owner of Pressure Moulded Plastics of Bridgeport, CT. A founder of the Wilton Presbyterian Chu
 AMDUR-S. Laurence. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, uncle and great-uncle, respected businessman, champion of the State of Israel and lifelong leader of the Israel Bond Drive, died peacefully at home on Tuesday evening, December 10, 2002. He is survived by Eileen, his wife of 63 years,
 ARLEDGE - Roone. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a member of the Columbia College class of 1952. His leadership as a University Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and a 
 BRUBAKER-Max F. A longtime resident of New York City died on November 28, 2002 in Wiscasset, Maine. Survived by his wife Barbara.       
 BURNS-Col. Elmer M. Of Ardsley, New York died on December 10, 2002. He was 97. Col. Burns was born October 31, 1905 in Newfolden, MN to Turi and Ole Bjornrud. He had lived in Ardsley since 1993. He had more than 40 years of U.S. Army and other government services prior to his retirement in 
 HECHT-Richard Harlan. On December 11, 2002. Devoted son of the late Ethel and Nathan Hecht of Rego Park, NY. Beloved brother of Warren and Gilda Hecht and Robert and Linda Fisher. Uncle of the late Meredith, Helen, Erica and Steven Ebbets, Steven and Maura. Great-uncle of Heather Susan Ebbe
 JAFFE - Herbert. Beloved son of the late Samuel and the late Anna Jaffe. Devoted brother of Phyllis Jaffe. Loving uncle of Richard Lentin. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Friday, December 13th, 11:30AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street. 
 LIEBERT-Robert M. Passed away on December 7, 2002. He was a professor of psychology at SUNY Stonybrook from 1970 to 2002. He is survived by five children and three grandchildren.       
 McHALE-Thomas Riley, 77. Died at home in Vienna, VA. on December 10th. Survivors include his wife Mary and six children. McHale had worked as an economist in Manila, Kuala Lumpur, Riyadh, London & NYC. Funeral services Friday, 11 AM, St. Mark's Catholic Church, Vienna.       
 PERGAMENT-Murray, 76. Of Old Westbury, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Irene for 53 years. Loving father of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Randi and Bruce Pergament; cherished grandfather of Jill and Jeff Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppel, Scott,
 PERL-Alan F. In Sarasota, FL, December 7, age 93. Born and raised in New York, he attended Columbia College and Law School. He served as a staff attorney in the early days of the National Labor Relations Board rising to direct the New York regional office. In this period he tried cases that
 William H. Gleysteen Jr., an expert on China who was United States ambassador to South Korea in a period of acute political turbulence there in the late 1970's, died on Dec. 6 in Washington. He was 76. The cause was acute leukemia, according to the Council on Foreign Relations, wher
 Bobby Joe Hill, who led Texas Western's all-black starting five to the 1966 National Collegiate Athletic Association men's basketball championship with its victory over Kentucky's all-white team, died last Sunday at a hospital in El Paso. He was 59. The cause was a heart attack, sai
 Orlando Villas-Boas, the last survivor of three pioneering brothers who were instrumental in exploring Brazil's vast interior in the 1940's and protecting the native Indians they found there, died today after a long illness. He was 88. Mr. Villas-Boas, who was born Jan. 12, 1914, in
 ARLEDGE - Roone. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a member of the Columbia College class of 1952. His leadership as a University Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and a 
 BUTERBAUGH - George Henry, 99. Of Salisbury, December 8th in Salisbury, CT. He was the husband of Lucille (Egelhoff) Buterbaugh. He worked at Charles Platt in NYC and was an associate member of Eggers & Higgins as well as Harry T. Lindberg in NYC for many years. A memorial service will be h
 CAVALLI - Maximilian Er nest. Of Peabody formerly of Watertown, December 6, 2002. Beloved husband of Dr. Nancy Baker, MD. Father of Catherine Samuelson and her husband Roy of Brooklyn, NY. and Max J. Cavalli and his wife Michelle of Rochester, NY. A memorial service in celebration of his li
 GROSSMAN-Rabbi Irving. Cherished husband of Claire. Devoted father of Albert (Renata), Dr. Elliot (Debora), Dr. Myles (Janice). Revered grandfather of Dr. Erik, Karen (Marcos), Daniel, Jonathan, Francie, Sammy, Jared and Phallan. His love of Torah and his memory will live on and be a blessi
 KILIMNICK-Evelyn. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends heartfelt condolences to esteemed Member of the Board of Governors, Rabbi Shaya Kilimnick, on the passing of his dear mother. Hamakom Yenachemchem.       
 MAGUIRE-Joseph H. Age 67, on December 11. Retired longtime education dept. chair and professor, and assistant dean at the College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, Massachusetts, from which he graduated. Brother of Ann M. Maguire. Calling hours at Athy Memorial Home, 111 Lancaster Street, Worce
 PERGAMENT-Murray, 76. Of Old Westbury, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Irene for 53 years, dear brother Robert Pergament, loving father of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Randi and Bruce Pergament; cherished grandfather of Jill and Jeff Libshutz, Ky
 Dee Brown, whose Homeric vision of the American West, meticulous research and masterly storytelling produced the 1970 best seller ''Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West,'' died at his home in Little Rock, Ark., on Thursday. He was 94. Mr. Brown was a
 ARLEDGE - Roone. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a member of the Columbia College class of 1952. His leadership as a University Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and a 
 GLUCK-Melvin C., M.D. The faculty, staff and students of New York University School of Medicine mourn the loss of our colleague, Dr. Melvin C. Gluck, Associate Professor of Medicine and a founder of the Nephrology Division. A graduate of the School of Medicine, an outstanding teacher and ph
 JACOBS-Robert H., 82, on December 12, 2002. Husband of Grace (nee Madau), his adored deceased wife of 57 and a half wonderful years. They both dearly loved their three children: Nancy, Bill and Ken and their respective spouses George Martin, Dawn Jacobs and Dian Jacobs. They doted on their 
 KOLESNICK-Leon. Formerly of New Rochelle, on December 13, 2002. Husband of the late Ruth Kolesnick. He will be missed by his many beloved family and friends. Services at Zion Memorial of Mamaroneck at 9:30 AM on Sunday, December 15th.       
 PERGAMENT-Murray. My deepest sympathies to Irene and the entire Pergament family. I deeply regretted not getting the opportunity to say a final thank you and goodbye. I was fortunate enough to have shared a very special relationship with Murray through a door rarely opened to anyone outside
 RAIEFF-Josef. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Josef Raieff, a member of the piano faculty from 1945 to 2000. Josef's legendary teaching helped shape the School's enduring tradition of piano performance. We send our deepest condolences to his family. Joseph W. Polisi, Pres.       
 Dr. Robert C. Schlant, a leading medical educator who was director of cardiology at Emory University from 1962 to 1988, died on Thursday at his home in Atlanta. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. Besides teaching, Dr. Schlant edited 19 medical books and was co
 Dr. Roland B. Scott, a pediatrician and allergy expert who gained international prominence as an authority on sickle cell disease and a champion in the fight against it, died on Tuesday at Washington Adventist Hospital. He was 93. Dr. Scott was a driving force behind the Sickle Cell
 Theodore G. Shackley, a legendary member of the C.I.A. who was known to colleagues as ''the Blond Ghost'' because of his light hair and mysterious ways, died on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 75. He had been suffering from cancer, said his daughter, Suzanne Shackley.    
 Arthur Stark, who was appointed by Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan to major labor arbitration panels, died on Dec. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. His family said he had a history of heart disease. He was named by President Eisenhowe
 It is not at all hard to see why Billy Pearson, the jockey, art expert, big-time television quiz show winner, bon vivant and gallery owner who died at 82 on Thanksgiving Day, attracted the friendship and admiration of people like the director John Huston, the singer Andy Williams, the actor
 Leonardo Mondadori, chairman of one of Italy's largest publishing houses, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore, died on Friday at his home in Milan. He was 56. The cause was cancer, said Piera Cusani, a spokeswoman for the publishing house. Mondadori publishes several Italian-language 
 ATHOS-Dr. Anthony G. Tony Athos, a scholar, author and consultant, widely recognized by colleagues as an outstanding teacher-lecturer, died on Friday, November 29th, 2002 in San Francisco after a long illness. He was 68. Tony received his MBA and DBA from the Harvard Business School where h
 BACHICH-Michael J. 46, Thursday, December 12, 2002, at home in NYC. Leaves his beloved daughter Addie, loving mother Maria, and devoted brothers Robert, John and Joseph. Contributions may be made to Holy Trinity R.C. Church Homeless Shelter, 213 W. 82nd St, NYC 10024. Services will be priva
 BOWER - Wilford White (''Jack''). Mr. Bower, known as ''Jack,'' died peacefully on December 6, 2002. He was the grandson of Dr. Wilford W. White, founder of the White Hospital in Ravenna, Ohio, and one of the founders of the Cleveland Clinic with Drs. Crile and Lower. Born December 1, 1925,
 BROTHERTON-Frederick J. 93 years old, died on Sunday, December 8, 2002. Born in New Jersey, Mr. Brotherton was the owner of Brotherton Construction Company in Hackensack, NJ where he was involved in many large building projects including schools and hospitals. Mr. Brotherton would spend his
 COHEN-Maurice, M.D. Born December 26, 1931, in Winnipeg, Canada, son of Max and Thelma Cohen, passed away December 14, 2002, surrounded by his loving family. Dr. Cohen practiced obstetrics and gynecology in Queens and in Nassau Counties for over three decades and since 1993 focused his care
 GERSH-Max. 94, died peacefully at home in Boynton Beach, FL, on December 7, 2002. We celebrate an extraordinary man who had a passionate love affair with life. Loving husband of Barbara. Devoted father to Damon, David, Gerald and Gretchen. Doting grandfather and a steady friend to many, Max
 GLUCK-Sidney. On November 21, 2002. Unexpectedly and peacefully in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Florence, loving father of Susan and Charles (Lori). Adored grandfather of Eric, Michael and Samantha. Charismatic, chutzpah master and original hippie, his spirit will live with us forever
 GOLDEN-Jack, a graphic designer, lecturer, and collector of ephemera, died on December 10, 2002 in Phoenix, AZ. He was 86 and until moving to Phoenix, a native and resident of NY. Mr. Golden, who headed the firm of Designers 3, was known for his graphic design talents, book designs, and lec
 GREENLEAF-Joseph. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 GUNNER-Bernard. June 30, 1924-December 11, 2002. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Susan and Mitchell Gidaly, Nancy and Gary Hantverk and loving grandfather of Elizabeth, Michael, Nikki and Ryan. He will be deeply missed by family and friends.       
 LEVINE-Steven Michael. 59. A free spirited man of the world died Tuesday, Decemberm 10, 2002. He will be greatly missed.       
 RAIEFF-Josef, 96. A member of the Juilliard Faculty for over five decades, concert pianist, professor of piano at the Juilliard School and Mannes College of Music in New York, beloved husband of the late Libby (nee Henderson). Loving father of Alexandria Zarro and Valerie Raieff. Cherished 
 RIVERA-Richard. December 12, 2002. New York Supreme Court Justice. First Puerto Rican elected to New York Civil Court. Survived by his wife, son, sisters and brother. Memorial service Monday, December 16, Marble Collegiate Church, 3 West 29th Street, Manhattan, 11:00 AM.       
 WILSON-Harold (Hal). On December 11, 2002. Established photographer and graphic designer. Beloved husband of Steffie. Devoted father of Erica Lauck. Loving brother of Richard, Betty D'Antuono and Kathy DeChellis. Cherished grandfather of Corey and Jessica. Generous and compassionate not onl
 WINICK-Elliott. Died on December 14, 2002. Beloved brother of Charles, Jesse, Martin and the late Jacob. Our deep sorrow is shared with his extended family and many friends who knew and loved him. A teacher who cared for generations of students at Julia Richman High School. A kind man of gr
 ITZKOFF-Nathan (Nat). December 16, 1902-June 16, 1985. Admirable, brave, beloved Dad, on his 100th birthday. ''Tell me not, in mournful numbers,/Life is but an empty dream!-/For the soul is dead that slumbers,/And things are not what they seem./Lives of great men all remind us/We can make o
 Dr. Richard S. Lazarus, an influential psychologist who charted the terrain of human emotion, most notably how people cope with stress, died on Nov. 24 in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 80. His death resulted from a fall, said officials at the University of California at Berkeley, wher
 Eli Ginzberg, an economist who taught at Columbia University for more than six decades, advised eight American presidents and led pioneering research efforts in employment and health care, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Dr. Ginzberg first showed his bent for appl
 BRESLER-Horace J. 83, died November 30, 2002. Graduated Magna Cum Laude, Harvard '41 and MSW from Columbia. Served in Pacific in WWII. Moved to Charleston, SC, where he did social work until retirement. Survived by children, Charles Bresler and Miriam Smith-Strelnick; five grandchildren, No
 KAMINSKI-John S., 71. Died in Rhodes, Greece on November 8, 2002. Beloved husband of Jane, his wife of 34 years. Dear brother and brother-in-law of Claire and Bob Braun residing in St. Petersburg, Florida. Uncle of Tom, Margaret, Wendy, Frances, Alasdair, Teresa and David in Scotland. A civ
 LEV-Leonard J. 67, died at home after a courageous battle with cancer. A partner in the law firm of Sweeney Lev, a respected business attorney, he was for many years Associate General Counsel with Revlon Cosmetics, U.S. and earlier an associate with Well Gotshal & Manges. His strong persona
 PERGAMENT-Murray. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of our beloved friend and sponsor, Murray Pergament. We extend heartfelt condolences to his dear wife, Irene, their children, and grandchildren. Robert M. Morgenthau
 STERN-Irving. Of Manhattan. On December 15, 2002, in his 88th year, passed peacefully in his sleep. He will be deeply missed by his wife of 63 years Evelyn; three sons and their families; Herbert and Susan, Martin and Susan, and Barrett and Marjorie; and grandchildren Jayme, Dana and Rebecc
 John Crosby, an impresario and occasional conductor who founded the Santa Fe Opera in 1957 and built it into one of the country's most important opera companies during his 44 seasons as its general director, died on Sunday at Eisenhower Memorial Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 76 ye
 AMDUR-S. Laurence. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a devoted supporter of Israel who served as chairman of its Long Island campaign for over four decades and as Israel Bonds chairman of Congregation Sons of Israel in Woodmere, LI. We extend our sincere c
 BOGARD-Bruce, M.D. The Long Island Jewish Medical Center Staff Society sadly records the untimely passing of our irreplaceable friend and colleague, Dr. Bruce Bogard. He was an extraordinary, selfless, devoted pediatrician and teacher, with unparalleled expertise in the areas of child abuse
 CANNON-John Kemper. The Trustees and Staff of the Church Pension Fund announce with great sorrow the death of our former colleague and Board Chair, John Cannon, on December 15th. He is survived by his dear wife Yolanda, his children John, Carter, Jill, and Amy, and five grandchildren. Born 
 COHEN-Herbert S. Of Lake Worth, FL, died on December 15, 2002 at age 78. Cherished husband of Elayne. Loving father of Barbara (Michael) Greenblatt and Lawrence (Jane) Cohen. Adored grandfather of Robin, Jodi and Jeffrey Greenblatt and Joanna and Brandon Cohen. Beloved brother of Janice Gor
 COHEN-Maurice, M.D. The Long Island Jewish Medical Center Staff Society extends its sincerest condolences to the family of Dr. Maurice Cohen. He was a member of OB/GYN LIJ Staff where he completed his residency and worked for over thirty years. He will be missed.       
 COLEMAN-Adolph. Will be deeply missed by the family and many friends who loved and cherished him for 98 years. He was the gentle in gentleman and the trunk of the great living tree of close relationships that he steadfastly embraced and encouraged. He adored Bella, his loving wife of 67 yea
 CORNELL-J. Martin, 69. Of West Nyack and Central Valley, New York, died December 12, 2002. He leaves his wife Harriet, children Valerie, Keith, Kendall, Alison, and grandsons Robin and Skyler. A graduate of Fieldston School, Swarthmore College and University of Michigan Law School, he had a
 CROSBY-John O. The Board of Directors of The Santa Fe Opera and the Board of Trustees of The Santa Fe Opera Foundation note with great sadness and a sense of deep loss the death of the Opera's founder and General Director Emeritus, John O. Crosby. A pioneer in American opera, John Crosby fo
 DIAMOND-Julius, 88. Of Deerfield Beach, FL, died peacefully at home on December 11, 2002, in the loving embrace of his wife, Elsie. His entire family and all of his many friends join together in celebrating his extraordinary life. His work on behalf of so many important causes, helped count
 FELLMAN-Barry of Middleboro, MA died peacefully December 14, 2002. Survived by loving wife Susie; his daughter and son-in-law Susan and Lawrence Levine and grandchildren Benjamin, Ivy and Jamie, all of Woodmere, NY; son and daughter-in-law Michael and Tamara Fellman and grandchildren Beatri
 GINZBERG - Eli. Beloved father and grandfather. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, December 18, 1:15PM. ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. GINZBERG-Eli, Ph.D. It is with profound sympathy that the faculty, students, alumni and staff of Columbia's Mailman Scho
 JACOBS-Robert H., 82, on December 12, 2002. Husband of Grace (nee Madan), his adored deceased wife of 57 and a half wonderful years. They both dearly loved their three children: Nancy, Bill and Ken and their respective spouses George Martin, Dawn Jacobs and Dian Jacobs. They doted on their 
 KATZ-Oscar. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Oscar Katz, who was an invaluable supporter for over 30 years. Mr. Katz first became a member of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center Board of Trustees in 1970, and was made a Life Trustee in 1996. He was th
 KRONFELD-Mervin B.V. Of Edina, MN, formerly of NY. Born November 7, 1918, passed away at the age of 84, on December 15, 2002 after a brave struggle. He is survived by Cookie, his wife of 52 years; daughter Suzy; son-inlaw David Baum; grandson Danny; brother Alan; sister Florence Rosner; and
 LEVY-David, 92. Of Hallandale, FL, passed away on December 15, 2002 in Florida. Mr. Levy is survived by his loving family. For information, The Babione Funeral Home (East Chapel), FL.       
 RITCHIN-Dr. Hyman B., 90. Of Brooklyn and Riverdale, NY, passed away at home December 16th, 2002. His wife of 36 years, Estelle T. Ritchin, passed away June 18th, 1997. He is survived by his loving children, Fred, Carole, Stephen and Andrea, and grandchildren, Ariel, Ezra, Ruby and Esther. 
 RUDINGER-Ernest. Age 90 of Ithaca formerly of Armonk New York. Passed away peacefully on Tuesday, November 26, 2002. Born in Vienna, Austria. Emigrated to USA in 1938. Was in the 10th Mountain Division of the US Army. In 1946 he married Gerda Knegtmans of the Netherlands. Memorial Service J
 SHIELDS-Thomas C. Jr., Ed. D., 68, a Mt. Vernon resident. died Friday, December 13, 2002. Thoms was a professional who made many contributions to the fields of school and hospital administration. Dr. Shields served as Assistant Superintendent of Schools in Pelham Manor, NY and held the posi
 SMITH-Ralph P. of Longboat Key, Florida formerly of Greenwich Village. Beloved husband of Elena (Benedict) Smith. Devoted father of Padraic and Moira Smith of Manhattan, Deirdre Smith of Denver, CO., Mairead Ainley of Newtown, CT., Siobhan Smith of Norwalk, CT., and Andrew & Cristina Smith 
 STOWE-Stephen, M.D. Son of the late Michael & Lenore & brother of the late Jonathan. Services 5 PM, Tuesday, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions to Kehilath Jeshurun. STOWE-Stephen. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges wit
 UNANUE CASAL-Francisco. President of Goya de Puerto Rico and brother to Joseph Unanue, President of Goya Foods in Secaucus, NJ died in Puerto Rico on December 13, 2002. The funeral mass was held on Monday, December 16 at the Iglesia Santa Teresita in Santurce, Puerto Rico and he was buried 
 VAILL-John A. Died December 10, 2002. Survived by his daughter Amanda Vaill, his grandchildren Pamela and Patrick Stewart, and his companion Caroline Bryan. Services 2pm Saturday, December 21st, Church of the Heavenly Rest, 2 East 90 St, NY, NY.       
 Zal Yanovsky, whose distinctive guitar playing and ebullient personality helped make the Lovin' Spoonful one of the most popular rock groups of the late 1960's, died on Friday at his home outside Kingston, Ontario. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. On
 Francisco Unanue Casal, one of two brothers who built their parents' trade in imported Spanish condiments and olive oil into today's Goya brand food empire, died on Friday in Santurce, P.R. He was 71 and lived in nearby Rio Piedras, P.R. The cause was a heart attack, according to th
 BLAKE - Simon. Of Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Died on December, 16, 2002 at age 83. Beloved husband of Nora, devoted father of Maxine and Robert, cherished grandfather of Bethany and Debra. Proud World War II veteran, survivor of Normandy invasion. His spirit will live with us forever. Servic
 CLEMENT-Paul. The New York Philharmonic deeply mourns the passing of Paul Clement, a member of the Philharmonic's cello section from 1963-1995. Prior to joining the Orchestra, Mr. Clement was a member of the Pittsburgh Symphony and the NBC Symphony Orchestra under Toscanini. Mr. Clement, wh
 CORNELL-J. Martin, 69. Of West Nyack and Central Valley, New York, died December 12, 2002. He leaves his wife Harriet, children Valerie, Keith, Kendall, Alison, and grandsons Robin and Skyler. A graduate of Fieldston School, Swarthmore College and University of Michigan Law School, he had a
 CROSBY-John O. It is with great sadness that Manhattan School of Music mourns the passing of John Crosby, the School's president from 1976-1986. His extraordinary vision continues to influence generations of singers and Manhattan School of Music is privileged to carry forth with his legacy.
 FRUMKIN-Allan. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague. He was greatly respected and admired for his taste and his support of the artists in whose work he believed. Our condolences to his wife, Jean, and his sons, Peter and Ro
 GINZBERG - Eli. Beloved father and grandfather. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, December 18, 1:15PM. ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. GINZBERG - Eli. The Trustees, faculty and staff of New School University, and members of the Board of Governors of The R
 JACOBS-Samuel A. Shmuel Aaron ben Mordechai, December 16, 2002, after a long illness. Mr. Jacobs raised his family in New York City with his beloved late wife, Marion Wilence Jacobs, and is survived by his sons, Phillip, and Billy, their wives, Marjorie and Lynn, and grandchildren, Elie, Jo
 LENTINI-John M. It is with sincere regret and great sorrow that the entire staff and elected officials of the Village of North Hills acknowledge the untimely death of our Mayor John M. Lentini. Our condolences to his wife Phyllis and his entire family. He will be missed by all. Village of N
 LEVIN-Lester Elias, December 16, 2002, New Rochelle, NY, age 76, son of the late Irving and Rea (Pfeffer) Levin. CPA, WW II veteran, and civil rights mentor. Survived by his beloved wife of 54 years, Evelyn (Cron). Loving father of Jeffrey and Diane (Simon) Levin, Drs. Marc & Deborah (Rubin
 MEYERSON-George J. Died peacefully in Hospice by the Sea, Boca Raton, Florida. on December 16, 2002. So very loved by his wife, Virginia, children and family. MEYERSON-George. The National Board of Trustees and staff of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America mourn the loss of o
 RAPHAEL-Raphael. The Officers, Trustees and members of The Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the death of Raphael Raphael, beloved father of our Vice President of Administration, Mark Raphael. We pray that Mark and his family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Geral
 REETZ - Bradley W. Of Bronxville, NY. The Reetz family mourns with great sorrow the untimely death of our son, brother, father, cousin, uncle and friend on December 16. Brad was born March 3, 1948, lived in Bronxville since 1957. Graduated Bronxville HS 1966 and Hiram College 1970. He was a
 RITCHIN-Dr. Hyman B., 90. Of Brooklyn and Riverdale, NY, passed away at home December 16th, 2002. His wife of 36 years, Estelle T. Ritchin, passed away June 18th, 1997. He is survived by his loving children, Fred, Carole, Stephen and Andrea, and grandchildren, Ariel, Ezra, Ruby and Esther. 
 SHERIDAN-Robert E. Died peacefully on December 7. He was an editor with AP/ Dow Jones for 35 years and one of the editors that founded Dow Jones Newswire. He served as president of the New York Financial Writers Association, president of the Deadline Club and treasurer of the Overseas Press
 TYNAN-William J. Formerly of River Forest, Illinois, died Monday, December 16, 2002. He was born on August 11, 1919. He was the beloved husband of more than 50 years of the late Frances (nee Riedmiller); loving father of William (Susan), Deborah Klemawesch (Stephen), Tracey, David (Linda), 
 WITLIN-Ray. World traveler and photographer and filmmaker, born in Brooklyn in 1920, died December 15th. For further information, contact his wife, Phyllis Chinlund, 29 Pine Lane, Cumberland Foreside, ME. 04110.       
 SCHULSKY-Alexander. Dad, we know how much you would love your grandson, Grady, how much each of you would enjoy the other. Someday we will tell him about you-your values, the lasting friendships you made, and the commitment and strength you provided when both were needed. We love you, Dad. 
 Sidney Glazier, the producer of the 1968 film comedy ''The Producers,'' died on Saturday in Bennington, Vt. He was 86. The movie, which earned an Oscar for Mel Brooks, its scriptwriter, tells the bizarre story of two crooked theatrical producers whose fraudulent moneymaking scheme r
 Charles E. Fraser, a developer who took Hilton Head Island -- a woody, sparsely populated barrier island off the South Carolina coast -- and turned it into a haven of expensive homes, golf courses and tennis courts, died in a boating accident on Sunday in the West Indies. He was 73.        
 Dick Stuart, an exuberant first baseman who hit baseballs huge distances but fielded so erratically that he earned the nickname Dr. Strangeglove, died Sunday at his home in Redwood City, Calif. He was 70. The cause was cancer, his family said. Stuart's strength and his weakn
 Ezra Solomon, an economist at Stanford University whose work helped shape modern theories of corporate finance, died on Dec. 9. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said the Stanford Graduate School of Business, which announced his death on Tuesday. Dr. Solomon's best-kn
 BATES-William Boulton. Of Walnut Creek CA, after a long illness on December 17 at age 92. Born in Morristown, NJ, lifelong employee of the National Biscuit Company; avid golfer. Predeceased by wives Theodora Barstow, Elizabeth LaBare, and Leila Wheeler. Survived by his devoted wife, Ann Hou
 BAUM-Gilbert, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of our distinguished professor emeritus of ophthalmology and visual sciences, who was widely known as a pioneer in the medical use of ultrasound. To his wife, Barbra, and th
 DAVIS-John A. Sr, Ph.D. On December 16, 2002 of Scottsdale, AZ. Beloved father of John A. Davis Jr. and his wife Teri and Smith Wormley Davis, Esquire and his wife Sandy, also survived by sister Dorothy Davis Lucas, nephew Gordon Davis of New York City, niece Alison Davis of Chicago, IL and
 DERBY-Rabbi Josiah. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He was the founding rabbi of the Rego Park Jewish Center in Queens, NY, a position he began as a student in 1941 and from which he retired as rabbi emeritus in 1983. In retirement, he served as founding 
 FREEMAN-Matthew Che. Matthew Che Freeman, 24, of Chicago on December 13. Dearly loved by his partner Erin Hustings, his parents, Catherine Kallal and Joshua Freeman, step parents, Maurice Lemon & Patricia Kelly, brothers Adam Freeman and Paul Lemon, grandparents Kit and Robert Kallal, Herb 
 HAWKINS-Harman, Shelter Island Heights, NY, formerly of Plandome. Retired partner, DeForest & Duer, past president, U.S. Sailing Association, past commodore, Manhasset Bay Yacht Club, past commodore, Storm Trysail Club. Survived by wife, Janet Gay Hawkins, sons, Christopher (Susan) and Jona
 KLEIN-Regina. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish Heritage-A Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of Regina Klein, beloved mother of Vice Chairman George Klein. We extend our heartfelt condolences to George and his family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman David G. Mar
 MARSHALL-Curtis Greenwood Sr. Of Nyack, NY died on December 16, 2002. He was 73. He was employed and retired from CPC International. He is survived by his wife, Joan Ellen Roth, six children: Master Sergeant Retired Curtis G., Jr., and his wife Mary A. of Wedgefield, SC, Gary C. and his wif
 WALD-Michael D., 41. Died peacefully at home in Seattle, Washington, November 16, 2002. Parents, siblings, family and friends deeply mourn his untimely passing. A journalist and PR executive, his byline appeared in the New York Times, Daily News, Atlantic City Press; he also worked at Shand
 Frederick Knott, a notoriously unprolific playwright who scored big when he did write -- with his 1952 Broadway hit ''Dial M for Murder'' and later with the 1966 thriller ''Wait Until Dark'' -- died on Tuesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 86. ''He hated writing,'' his wife, An
 BROWN-Raymond F. Jr., 81 Of Valhalla, NY. Formerly of White Plains, Utica and NY, NY. Died at home on December 19, 2002 after a long and courageous battle with lung disease. He was the beloved husband of Doris Loebenberg Brown, loving father of Alison Lukacsko of Princeton Junction, NJ and 
 COHEN-Maurice, Dr. Oregon Freeze Dry mourns the death of its principal scientific advisor, colleague and friend; and offers its heartfelt condolences to his family and many many friends. Herbert Aschkenasy, Pres       
 DAVIS-John A. Sr, Ph.D. On December 16, 2002 of Scottsdale, AZ. Beloved father of John A. Davis Jr. and his wife Teri and Smith Wormley Davis, Esquire and his wife Sandy, also survived by sister Dorothy Davis Lucas, nephew Gordon Davis of New York City, niece Alison Davis of Chicago, IL and
 EICHNA-Ludwig W., M.D. The administration, faculty, staff and students of the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center express their deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Dr. Ludwig W. Eichna who served as the chairman of Downstate's Department of Medicine from 1960 t
 HAMDANI-Viqar. We mourn the passing of Dr. Viqar Hamdani, our longtime trustee and prominent Moslem leader. He was a man of compassion, peace and tolerance, and his contributions to interreligious understanding and freedom will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, N
 KLEIN-Regina. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Regina Klein, beloved mother of George Klein, a dedicated supporter of UJA-Federation who has expressed his love of the Jewish community through exceptional leadership and philanthro
 LABER-Austin. Lawyer and entrepreneur, longtime New Yorker, recently of Essex, CT., died December 15th of Lung Cancer. Optimist and innovator, he pioneered 1970's NYC Housing renewal and in 1997 founded Fabled Foods, an artisan bread bakery, with his wife, Ina Bomze. He leaves his beloved w
 LEVIN-Lester Elias. The Rector, Wardens, and Vestry of The Church of the Transfiguration, NYC, mourn the death of Lester Levin, our parish accountant for over 40 years. Trusted professional and faithful friend, he will be remembered with gratitude and love.       
 SCHWARTZ - Bernard. On December 19th, 2002. Beloved husband of Leah. Devoted father of Susan Cohen (David). Union organizer and leader. Above all, he believed in the rights and dignity of workers everywhere. SCHWARTZ-Bernard. ''The credit belongs to the man who spends himself in wor
 SEIDEN-Steven I. In loving memory, he finally succumed to ALS after twelve years, overcoming with grace, a silent, paralytic existance on a ventilator. His courage, his humor, his wisdom, his intellect and his scholarship inspired us everyday and he will be remembered with love forever.    
 Wayne Owens, a former congressman from Utah who promoted peace in the Mideast, was found dead on Wednesday in Tel Aviv, the State Department said. He was 65 and lived in Salt Lake City. He apparently had a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the department, Anne Marks, said. Mr.
 John A. Davis Sr., a veteran of landmark civil rights confrontations since the 1930's and a former chairman of the department of political science at City College of New York, died on Monday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 90 and formerly lived in Washington and New Rochelle, N.Y. A nat
 ELLENSON-Arnold. It is with profound sorrow that the Board of Directors and Staff of United Cerebral Palsy of NYC acknowledge the passing of Arnold. His son, Richard, is a devoted benefactor and we extend our deepest sympathies to him and his entire family. Leo Hausman, Chairman Edward R. M
 FLECK-Stephen, M.D., 90. Died December 19 at home in Hamden, CT. Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry and Public Health, Yale University. Born September 18, 1912 in Frankfurt, Germany to Dr. Georg and Anna Beer Fleck. Predeceased by his beloved wife, Louise H. Fleck, siblings, Herbert and Ruth 
 LAWRENCE-Lewis R., 92. Died on Friday, 20 December, although to us, he was not mortal. Devoted and adored husband to Florence, cherished father to Lynn and Jeff, and their spouses Glenda and Michael. His love of photography transformed into a life-long love affair with radiology, he was pri
 LAX-Melvin. We are profoundly saddened to announce the death of our colleague, distinguished professor Melvin Lax, 80, at his home in Summit, N.J. on December 8. A memorial symposium in his honor is planned at the City College for Spring, 2003. R.R. Alfano, J.L. Birman H.Z. Cummins, M. Sara
 LEVISON-Carl, M.D. December 20, 2002. Beloved husband of Shirley Birnbaum Levison. Survived by sister Augusta Facktoroff. Devoted father of Susan and Glenn Lewis, Arthur and Caryn Levison, loving grandfather to Erica and Aaron Lewis, Dr. Jonathan and Cathy Levison and greatgrandfather to Ja
 STUART-Willoughby I. ''Toby'' Jr. Age 58 of Marblehead Neck, MA, died suddenly at his home on December 15, 2002. A graduate of Franklin & Marshall College, Toby had a varied professional career, having been an editor in the medical textbooks division of Little, Brown, & Company, a producer 
 Dr. Saul Amarel, who helped develop the field of artificial intelligence and founded the computer science department at Rutgers University, died on Wednesday in Princeton, N.J., where he lived. He was 74. The cause was complications of cancer, according to Rutgers. At Rutger
 Warwick Charlton, a dreamer and schemer who got the idea that the world needed an exact replica of the Mayflower and made it happen, died on Dec. 10 in Bournemouth, England. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his son Randal said. He lived in a modest castle in Ringwood, Hampsh
 William Glover, a longtime drama critic for The Associated Press, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Beginning in 1960, Mr. Glover reviewed theater for the Associated Press for 18 years, covering Broadway, Off Broadway and theater in 28 states and 20 countries. When
 BREALEY - John. Died peacefully at New York Hospital on December 19th, 2002, after a long illness, aged 77. Paintings conservator and an Englishman in New York. Much loved father of Nick and grandfather of Sam, and will be sadly missed by his family and friends. Funeral service will take pl
 CORNELL-J. Martin. Our sincere condolences to Harriet, Valerie, Keith, Kendall and Allison, the family of J. Martin Cornell, a longtime friend of those suffering from mental illness and for 32 years a vital and contributing member of the Board of Directors of the Mental Health Association o
 DELVALLE-Malcolm, died suddenly on December 18, in France where he lived. Survived by brother Hugh and sister-in-law June of White Plains, niece Margot Pierro of Rye Brook, nephew Bruce of Isla Morada, Florida. He graduated from Pratt Institute, attended the Sorbonne and served in the U.S. 
 DRESCHER-George L. One of America's foremost creative designers, died last Sunday at his home in Key West, FL. He was 80. Born in Louisville, KY on August 15, 1922. Until his retirement in late 1995, he served as founder, President and Chief Designer for The Personal Touch, Inc. as a leadin
 DuPUY-Frank R. Jr. In his 95th year, on December 19, 2002, survived by his beloved wife of 48 years, Nancy, devoted son F. Russell III and daughter Sarah-Anne, all of New York, niece Amy Jo Brustalon of Ivorytown, CT. Attended Washington and Lee University. Served his country 1942-1946 in W
 FUNK-Edward Ross, 77. Of Worthington, Ohio, died peacefully on December 4, 2002 from Pancreatic Cancer. Ed was the founder of several companies, and was recognized in 1988 as ''Entrepreneur of the Year''. Ed was born in Wooster, Ohio on May 10, 1925 to Elizabeth Reese Funk and Daniel Coyle 
 GINZBERG-Dr. Eli. ORT Boards of Directors mourn the passing of Dr. Eli Ginzberg, Columbia University professor and Chairman of the World ORT Academic Advisory Council. Eli was an adviser to eight U.S. presidents and a leader in the field of economic and social rights of children. His death 
 GROSS-Emerick. Died at age 106 of a heart attack on December 15, 2002. He passed away surrounded by his beloved wife and grandsons 23 days short of his 107th birthday and three months shy of his 71st wedding anniversary. He is survived by his wife, Violette, and children Alan and Francine, 
 HAZAN-Alfred. On December 20, 2002, at 88 years of age. Beloved husband of Jennie. Loving father of the late Diane, the late Joyce Katz, Ira and Marilyn Corwin. Cherished grandfather of eight grandchildren and one greatgrandchild. Survived by two brothers and two sisters. Services today at 
 HUNICKE-August (Gus) Byron, Jr. of Old Saybrook, CT, age 84, died on December 18, 2002 at Connecticut Hospice. He graduated from M.I.T. in 1939, and became a licensed, registered, professional engineer. After a career in technology and industry, he founded Precision Timer Company and Americ
 IBERALL-Arthur Saul, the physicist who developed Homeokinetics, died on December 8 in Laguna Woods, CA. Trained at CCNY and GWU, Iberall was an ASME Fellow, a BEW Distinguished Lecturer, a NYAS Member, and recipient of an OSU honorary DS. He contributed significantly to the development of t
 KATZ-Michael A. Beloved husband of Margaret. Adored father of Joshua and Jonathan. Son of Phyllis and Abraham. Brother to Alex, Peter and David. A true prince among men, a gentleman, a scholar, a spirit larger than life, the magic of his being will last through eternity. KATZ-Michae
 LAWRENCE-Lewis R., M.D., 92. Died on Friday, 20 December, although to us, he was not mortal. Devoted and adored husband to Florence, cherished father to Lynn and Jeff, and their spouses Glenda and Michael. His love of photography transformed into a life-long love affair with radiology, he w
 MacIVER-Donald S., Ph.D. Age 75, of Fairfield, CT, died Dec. 11, 2002. Graduated Boston University and University of Pittsburgh. Following his military service he was employed at Gulf Oil and 20+ years with Stauffer Chemical Co, retiring as the Vice President and General Manager of the Inte
 MAY-Henry. November 4th, Washington, D.C. Henry May, an Emmy nominated set designer who served as chair of UC Berkeley's dramatic art department and taught there for over 23 years died at 81 of complications related to Alzheimer's disease. Professor May designed sets and costumes, produced 
 MCGOVERN-J. Stuart, 83. Former Media Executive, ''Gentle man'', of Palm Beach died Sunday, December 15, 2002. Stu spent 37 years with Hearst Corporation predominantly associated with Good Housekeeping Magazine. Born February 19, 1919 son of Harry and Margaret McGovern of NYC. Attended Pelha
 PAYNE - William Downes, Ph.D. Died December 16, 2002, in Englewood, CO, of heart-related causes. Beloved husband of Suzanne, devoted father of Rebecca P. Clayton, loving grandfather of Carter and William Clayton, and dear brother of Elizabeth Payne Holmes. Born September 22, 1936, in NYC. S
 POMEROY-Justice Thomas W., Jr., 94, died December 17, 2002, at his home near Pittsburgh, PA. Founding partner of Kirkpatrick & Lockhart, LLP., former Justice of the Supreme Court of PA, graduate of Harvard Law School, life trustee of Lafayette College, active Presbyterian. He was a distingu
 QUATTLEBAUM-Owen McDermed, 66. Died peacefully at his Santa Fe home, on the evening of December 18, 2002, after a struggle with cancer. A longtime resident of Brooklyn Heights, he was the beloved husband of Gail Quattlebaum. Owen is held in loving memory by his son Michael Sheldon, daughter
 RAI-Vishva Roop. Of Parsippany, N.J. Beloved husband of Roopa, father of Ajay, brother of Kanti, Savitri, Shanta and Veena. Devoted uncle and friend. Died suddenly November 19, 2002 while on a business trip in Singapore. Funeral was held in Jaipur, India on November 23rd. Memorial service 1
 SCHERBATSKOY-Serge A., 94, prominent inventor, Serge Alexander Scherbatskoy, holder of more than 200 patents worldwide in petroleum exploration, died of natural causes at his home in Fort Worth, TX. on November 25. In a career spanning the entire age of electronics, his work was at the fore
 SULLIVAN-Daniel J. A St. Louis labor lawyer and native of New York City, died December 17 at his home in Chesterfield, MO. He was 85. A graduate of the University of Notre Dame (1940) and Columbia University Law School (1947), he was a retired senior partner at Lewis, Rice & Fingersh, a fir
 Ray Wietecha, the Pro Bowl center who anchored the Giants' superb offensive line during their glory years of the 1950's and early 60's and never missed a game in his 10 pro seasons, died Dec. 14 in Phoenix. He was 74. The cause was an aneurysm, the Giants said. Playing for t
 Hank Luisetti, who changed the game of basketball with his running one-handed shots while playing for Stanford in the 1930's, died last Tuesday in San Mateo, Calif. He was 86. On the night of Dec. 30, 1936, a crowd of 17,623 turned out at the old Madison Square Garden to see Long Is
 John Downing Weaver, a writer whose research set right a historical wrong done to 167 black infantrymen in Brownsville, Tex., 96 years ago, died on Dec. 4 in Las Vegas, where he moved from Los Angeles 10 years ago. He was 90. Angelenos celebrated him as their chronicler. He devoted 
 CEA-Dr. Nicholas S. At age 96, passed away on December 22, 2002, of natural causes. He leaves behind his three children, Dr. Richard Cea, Dr. Ann C. Cea, Dr. Philip C. Cea, and seven grandchildren, four great-grandchildren. His wife Alice preceded him two years ago. He met Alice Roman, RN, 
 HAZAN-Alfred. The Sephardic Congregation of Long Beach mourns the great loss of our esteemed Trustee and benefactor. Mr. Alfred Hazan was a distinguished gentleman, a righteous individual, a man of humility, blessed with a noble heart, whose philanthropic ways touched countless lives throug
 MURRAY-Thomas Joseph. Born September 5, 1939. Died on December 20, of cancer. Cherished husband of Ann Bacciocco. Loved by his children Tara Freeman, Jennifer Baker, Thomas Jr., Meaghan Fullerton, Matthew, Kendra and Keith, and his 14 grandchildren. Beloved brother to Angela, Patricia Bless
 RACOV-Achi. The staff of Pre-Diction Inc wish to express their profound sorrow at the passing of Professor Achi Racov on December 16. Professor Racov played a central role in the development of our new company, Pre-Diction. His unstinting support, unique insights, encouragement and enthusia
 Sonny Carson, a black activist who was one of the central figures in the battle over community control of New York City's public schools in the 1960's, died Friday night at the Manhattan Veterans Affairs Medical Center. He was 66 and lived in Queens. Mr. Carson had been in a coma si
 Harvey B. Scribner, a no-nonsense former teacher from Maine who went on to become the chancellor of New York City's school system as it underwent a turbulent shift toward local control in the early 1970's, died yesterday in Waterville, Me. He was 88. Dr. Scribner arrived in New York
 Joe Strummer, whose raw voice and fervent songs for the Clash showed the punk generation that rebellion could be not just personal but also political, died of a heart attack on Sunday at his farmhouse in Broomfield, Somerset, in southwestern England, his recording company said. He was 50.  
 Grote Reber, a pioneering radio astronomer who built the first substantial radio telescope dedicated to astronomy and put it in his backyard in Wheaton, Ill., died on Friday in Tasmania, Australia, his home for some 50 years. He was 90. Mr. Reber was an engineering student in 1931 w
 John M. Brealey, the chairman of paintings conservation at the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1975 to 1989, died in New York Hospital on Thursday of complications from the amputation of a leg after a stroke. He was 77. He also had been an adjunct professor at the Institute of Fine 
 Michael J. Ogden, a newspaper industry executive and a former executive editor of The Providence Journal in Rhode Island, died on Thursday at his home in Monterey, Calif. He was 91. His death was announced over the weekend by his son, Christopher. Mr. Ogden joined The Journa
 BRANDT-RAUF-Oren. The faculty of Columbia University's Center for The Study of Society & Medicine expresses its deepest sympathies on the tragic death of Oren Brandt-Rauf, son of our treasured colleague, Sherry Brandt-Rauf. Our prayers are with Sherry, Paul and the entire family. David and 
 COOPERMAN - Edith. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Edith Cooperman, beloved mother of Robert Cooperman. We extend our deepest condolences to Robert and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 KARELITZ-Ethel Ginsberg. We are grateful for your 97 years and remember your love. Children Alane Henton, William R. Ginsberg; grandchildren Mark E. and Joshua R. Ginsberg; Michael, Steven and Daniel Shiffman and Andrea Tuttle; great-grandchildren, Alea Tuttle, Mark and his son Bruno Shiffm
 MATHESON-William L., 78, of Hobe Sound, Florida, died peacefully at his home on December 21, 2002 after a lengthy battle with cancer. Mr. Matheson served in the United States Navy from 1942-1946. He earned a B.A. from Emory University and a LL.B and J.D. from the University of Virginia Law 
 Stanley Rosenfeld, a photographer whose powerful images of yachts, particularly in America's Cup races, transfigured the sport he documented for nearly 70 years, died Monday in Miami. He was 89 and lived in North Miami Beach. He contributed to more than 20 books and hundreds of maga
 FARBER-Bernie. The entire staff of Lord West Formalwear mourns the passing of our beloved colleague and friend. He will be dearly missed by all of us. We extend our sincerest condolences to Rita Carol and family.       
 GROSS-Emerick. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Emerick Gross, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Mr. Gross touched thousands by his generosity and commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Our hearts and 
 GROSSI-Olindo. Died at his Manhasset home December 20, age 93. He was Dean, Pratt Institute School of Architecture until 1969, then Dean of Architecture at N.Y. Institute of Technology until 1983. He leaves his wife Martha, daughter Susan Forsyth, sons John and Thomas, and four grandchildre
 PASSICK-Irving. On Dec. 25, 2002. Of Fort Lee, New Jersey and Saltaire, Fire Island, New York, by way of Brooklyn and Sokaleefka. He was 85 years old. Husband and soulmate of the deceased Naomi for 59 years. Father of Louise and David. Grandfather of Sarah and Daniel Medress & Sofia and Jac
 ROMAN-Michael D. On December 22, 2002. Chairman of Jewelers of America. Survived by his wife Aurelia, his son Michael, two daughters Laura and Lisa, a brother Jim and four granddaughters Alexandra, Rachel, Nicole and Lizette. Memorial Mass Friday 11 AM at St. Michael the Archangel R.C. Chur
 ROSENFELD-Stanley Zachary. Born July 27, 1913. Died December 23, 2002. He is survived by his wife, Heather Hanley, his sons, Richard Morris Rosenfeld and Jonathan Eliot Rosenfeld, two daughters-in-law, Margaret Andersen and Joan Prudic, a brother William, and a world of sailors, photographe
 SCHROTH-N. Michael. On December 23, 2002 at age 44. Beloved husband of Virginia. Loving father of G. Dean, Matthew and Nicholas. Devoted son of Judith Wischoff and Norbert H. Schroth. Dear brother of Robin Celso and Kevin Schroth. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St.
 STEFANON-Joao Maria, 67. Beloved husband, father and grandfather, died December 23 while battling cancer in CA. He is survived by his wife, his four children and two grandchildren. The family asks that a donation be made to the City of Hope Cancer Research Center on his behalf. www.cityofho
 Ralph Turner Millet, who helped Saab of Sweden establish itself in the American market when it began building cars almost a half-century ago, died on Friday at a hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 85 and had lived in Old Saybrook. The cause was heart disease, his family said.     
 Richie Regan, a star guard on Seton Hall's 1953 National Invitation Tournament champions and later the university's basketball coach, athletic director and fund-raising director for athletics, died Tuesday at a hospital in Neptune, N.J. Regan, who lived in Sea Girt, N.J., was 72. Th
 Robert Alan Bicks, a Manhattan lawyer and the government's leading trustbuster in the Eisenhower administration, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Castine, Me. The cause was respiratory failure, his family said. Mr. Bicks 
 Herb Ritts, the photographer whose glorifying images of the well known helped to further mythologize celebrity in the 1980's and 90's, died yesterday in a Los Angeles hospital. He was 50 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his friend Stephen Huvane,
 BERRIE-Russell. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Russell Berrie, a valued friend and committed ATS member. Mr. Berrie, founder and CEO of Russ Berrie and Company, Inc., was a devoted supporter of the ATS and Technion-Israel Institute of 
 COOPERMAN-Edith. The attorneys and staff of Cooperman, Lester, Miller LLP extend our deepest sympathy to our partner Robert N. Cooperman and his family on the passing of his beloved mother Edith.       
 HARRIS-Bernard (BJ). The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Bernard Harris and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary       
 KARSON-Sydney E. Dec. 26, 2002, in his 91st year after a long and fruitful life. Survived by Etta, his wife of 67 years, and children, Dolores (Martin) Meyerson and Barry (Kathryn), four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Syd was formerly chief studio photographer for McGrawHill Pu
 SCHROTH - Michael. Our hearts go out to the Schroth family at this very sad time. Michael will remain in our memory as the devoted father of three children and the beloved husband of Virginia, a dear friend of our department. Deborah Wye, Chief Curator and the Staff and Trustee Committee of
 WATERFALL - Wallace Knapp. On December 21, 2002. Died peacefully at his home in Washington, D.C. He is survived by his wife of twenty-eight years, Barbara Culliton Waterfall. He is also survived by three children from a previous marriage, Ann Waterfall (Norwich, VT), Clark Waterfall (Hopkin
 WEXLER-Jack. Died peacefully surrounded by family on December 26, 2002. Unbounding kindness and generosity were his life's work. Cherished father to Ann and Robert Fromer and Nina and Gary Wexler. Adored grandfather to Tony and Amy Fromer, Yvette and Roger Mincheff, Michal Fromer and Elana 
 SPILER-Seymour. March 15, 1937 to December 27, 1998. Remembered always with love by his family       
 Russell Berrie, a maker of plush animals, toys and gifts who used his considerable wealth to advance health care and support religious and cultural groups, died on Wednesday in Englewood, N.J., where he lived. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, the company said. Mr. Ber
 George Roy Hill, the versatile director whose Hollywood movies included ''Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid'' and ''The Sting,'' which won Academy Awards for best film and best director, died yesterday in his apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was c
 BERRIE-Russell. It is with sadness that the JCC on the Palisades mourns the loss of Russell Berrie, an outstanding friend and humanitarian. As a founding member who served on the Board of Directors for many years, Mr. Berrie was instrumental in helping the JCC evolve into the family focused
 RITTS-Herb. The Board of Directors and the staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) mourn the loss of our valued friend and supporter Herb Ritts. This internationally acclaimed photographer with the unique ability to capture the human spirit leaves us with enduring images 
 SCHATZ-Warner. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy S. Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Sr. Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Associate Rabbi       
 WRIGHT-Gary D. Died on December 19, 2002 at age 57 after a long battle with cancer. Life long New Yorker he was a caterer and an artist. Gary was the son of the late Edwin and Irene Wright. He is survived by his daughter Megan and brothers Edwin, Frank and Randy as well as many loving famil
 Charles A. Rosen, an engineer who was an early researcher in robotic and artificial intelligence and a founder of Ridge Vineyards in Cupertino, Calif., died on Dec. 8 at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 85. Born in Montreal, Mr. Rosen came to the United States as a teenager. He s
 Charley Lupica, a Cleveland grocer who became something of a national celebrity when he perched atop a flagpole for 117 days in the summer of 1949 hoping to inspire his beloved Indians to win the American League pennant, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Westlake, Ohio. He was 90. T
 Desmond Hoyte, the former president of Guyana who began a thaw of his nation's socialist policies and ushered in a democratic transition to his opponents, died last Sunday in Georgetown, the capital. He was 73. The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press reported, citing Guyan
 George Weller, a journalist who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1943 for his account of how submarine crewmen working from a medical manual performed an appendectomy while on a war patrol in the Pacific, died Dec. 19 at his home in San Felice Circeo, Italy. He was 95. On Sept. 11, 1942, abo
 AMDUR-S. Laurence (Larry). Of Woodmere, N.Y died peacefully at home on December 10, 2002 at the age of 105 plus. He is survived by his devoted wife Eileen (Sonkin), beloved children Richard and Nurit Amdur, Dr. Latifa Amdur and Mary Ann Rothman, adoring grandsons Ariel, Dov and Kalani Amdur
 BALDWIN-William H. At the age of 82 on December 23, 2002. Dearly loved and loving husband, father, brother and granddad. Survived by his wife Margot, sons Glenn and Mark, brothers Charles and Paul (Billingham), sister Elizabeth Rowland, grandchildren Matthew and Dana and a host of friends. 
 BARASH-David. December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Laura Goodfriend and Stephanie Becker. Cherished grandfather of Scott Becker, Lisa and Galen Giebler, Lawrence and Jennifer Goodfriend, Amy and Jon Nussbaum. Proud great-grandfather of Cadie Mae. Loving c
 BERRIE-Russ. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of an extraordinary humanitarian who was a role model par excellence in the world of philanthropy. Russ recognized that his success was a gift from G-d and generously shared that blessing with countless causes, organizations and individual
 BLOCH-George. Cherished, caring husband to Harriet, his wife of 62 years, adored father to Brian (Randee), Susan Goldstein (Arthur) and Steven (Marilyn). George leaves a legacy of love and kindness to his grandchildren Heidi and David Binstock, Meredith and Corry Prohens, Carrie, Noel and S
 CHILDS-Philip Wiley. Living at 13 Hooker Street, Yarralumia, ACT 2600, Australia. Died unexpectedly December 23, 2002. Was successful in pursuit of his sculpting career. Beloved son of Eleanor Childs and dearest friend of Susie Arnott-Smith. Loving father of Jaimi Childs and brother of Jacq
 CONSTON-Eve. The Board of Directors and the staff of our two organizations extend our heartfelt condolences to our Vice President, Henry S. Conston, Esq., on the loss of his beloved spouse. Our thoughts are with him. Margaret Tietz Center for Nursing Care George Berlstein, Chairman The New 
 DECKER-Herbert M., 84. Of Marlboro, New Jersey on December 7, 2002. Beloved husband of Helen for 54 years. Extraordinary father of Joanne Falk. Devoted grandfather of Melissa and Andrea Falk. He was a researcher in biological organisms for the Federal government and private industry. He rec
 GOOKIN-R. Burt, 88, of Pittsburgh, PA, and Vero Beach, FL, died on December 21, 2002 in Vero Beach after a lengthy illness. He was born on June 23, 1914, in Chariton, Iowa, and came to Pittsburgh in 1945. His wife of 16 years, Marie G. Gookin, his daughter, Cristy, his son, David, daughter-
 GRAHAM-Raymond W. Of Brewster, MA on December 24, age 71. Cherished husband of Joan, much loved father of Chris and Tim. He will be deeply missed.       
 KARSON-Sydney E. Dec. 26, 2002, in his 91st year after a long and fruitful life. Survived by Etta, his wife of 67 years, and children, Dolores (Martin) Meyerson and Barry (Kathryn), four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Syd was formerly chief studio photographer for McGrawHill Pu
 KRIEGEL-Fred, 94. Died on December 26 at home in Bal Harbour, FL. Beloved husband of Rena, his devoted wife of 67 years. Dear brother of Beatrice Marims and Emanuel Kriegel (deceased). Cherished father of Carol Goldberg and Dorothy Bier. Father-in-law of David Goldberg and Max Bier. Loving 
 LOO-Dr. Robert K. Professor at Queensborough Community College. Passed peacefully on December 25, 2002, in Queens, NY. Born in Hawaii on May 1, 1937. Survived by wife Dr. Margaret T. Pan-Loo, four sons and four grandchildren. His family and friends were blessed with his love. The family wil
 LUCAIRE-L. Edward. On December 26, 2002, after a valiant battle with leukemia. Beloved husband of Lewise, cherished father of Laurin and Eddie and devoted friend to many. A U.S. Army veteran and graduate of Amherst College, Ed applied his creative talents in advertising before realizing his
 MORTON-Herbert C. 81, died on December 21, 2002, at his home in Bethesda, MD. He was an editor and publisher and author of books on economics, the work place, scholarly communication, and lexicography. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Orlans Morton, and two daughters by his first wife Do
 PENTCHEFF-Nicolas. Died December 22, 2002, age 91, after a long illness. Born in Bulgaria. Educated in Bulgaria, London School of Economics (BS) and Columbia University, NY (MA). Reporter for Zora, Sofia's leading daily; sent to London in 1936. Became Press Attache to Bulgarian Legation, Lo
 PETERS-Dr. Paul Conrad. Died Thursday, December 26, 2002 at his home in Dallas, TX. Paul was born on December 5, 1928 in Kokomo, IN to Ralph and Thelma Lett Peters. He grew up in Greentown, IN, a town and state he was proud to be from. He played basketball for and graduated from Greentown H
 RITTS-Herb. We loved you from the moment we met you. Your soft spoken unassuming manner was equally as beautiful as your boundless creativity. During your brief 50 years, you lived a life others could merely dream of. Each person you captured, be it on film or in your heart, felt comfortabl
 ROSENBLATT - Robert W. 80, on December 28. Loving and devoted husband of Helene (Scheuer). Father of Bill and Roberta, Ron and Susy, David and Robyn, Larry and Linda, Ann and Stuart. Brother of Richard and Lois, Peter and Naomi. Grandfather of Charles, Marc, Becky and Josh and Devon, Casson
 SACKS-Roger, D.D.S. A man of honor, great courage and dignity. He was a graduate of Stuyvesant High School 1954, Columbia College 1958, and Columbia College of Dentistry 1962. He was a published cartoonist who brought his wit with him wherever he went. He leaves his beloved wife Arlene, his
 SMILOW-Mel. After a long brave fight, he succumbed to dementia on December 26, 2002. He will be remembered most for his devotion to family and friends, enthusiasm for life, his sense of humor and caring for those less fortunate. As a devoted husband, father and grandfather, talented furnitu
 WAXMAN-Ernest. Formerly of New York, died in San Francisco, CA. November 30, 2002. A composer, pianist and educator, he was an alumnus of the Third Street Music School Settlement and a member of ASCAP and the Long Island Composers Alliance. He is survived by his wife Fritzie, his children M
 WEXLER-Jack. Migdal Ohr institutions in Israel and the Board of Directors of the American Friends of Midgal Ohr deeply mourn the passing of Jack Wexler, Chairman Emeritus and dear friend. His wisdom, kindness and generosity of spirit will be sorely missed. Jack's love for, and dedication to
 WHITEHEAD-James Farnum Jr, 84. Of Hobe Sound, FL, died at his home on December 23, 2002. Mr. Whitehead served in the US Army Air Corp from 1942-1946. He earned an AB from Harvard College and attended the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration from 1941-1942. He was President and
 ZILDJIAN-Armand. Of Scottsdale, Arizona, and Quechee, Vermont (formerly Hingham, MA), President and Chairman of the Zildjian Company in Norwell, MA, died Thursday at his home in Scottsdale. He was 81. Born in Quincy, he attended local schools, including Thayer Academy and Colgate University
 ZIMMERMAN-Dr. Louis. On December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Helen Helfstein Zimmerman. Devoted father of Peter Max Zimmerman and Mindy Zimmerman Colton. Dear fatherin-law of Paul Franklin Colton. Dear brother of the late Ida Revitz and Zeta Turtle. Also survived by other loving f
 Ward Davenny, a pianist, an administrator and a professor emeritus of piano at the School of Music at Yale University, died on Dec. 10 at his home in New Haven. He was 86 and had remained active in performing, organizing concerts and teaching. Born in Ashtabula, Ohio, on July 28, 19
 David A. Richie, a former National Park Service official who had a significant role in protecting the Appalachian Trail from commercial development, highway building and other potential threats, died on Dec. 20 at his home in Hampstead, N.C. He was 70. The cause was colon cancer, hi
 Giovanni Intra, a writer and a partner in China Art Objects Galleries, an influential new gallery in Los Angeles, died on Dec. 17 in an apartment on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He was 34 and lived in Los Angeles. The New York City Medical Examiner's office said the cause of death was 
 Glen Seator, a highly regarded sculptor who became known in the 1990's for work that replicated architectural situations with uncanny verisimilitude, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 46. He was working on the chimney of his three-story house when he fell to his death,
 Ian Hornak, a representational painter who exhibited his work regularly in New York galleries during the last three decades, died on Dec. 9 in Southampton, N.Y. He was 58. The cause was an abdominal aneurysm, said his dealer, Katharina Rich Perlow. Mr. Hornak came into his o
 James Kilgo, who wrote essays on the outdoors, man's relationship with it and friendship between men, died on Dec. 8 in Athens, Ga. He was 61 and lived in Athens. The cause was complications of cancer, said the University of Georgia Press, his publisher. In ''Inheritance of 
 ABER-Stanley. On Sunday, January 26, 2003. Loving and dedicated father, brother, uncle and friend. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Tuesday 12:45 PM. Interment Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. Shiva at the home of his brother Bertram Aber. He was a friend to all those who needed a fr
 BALDWIN-William H. At the age of 82 on December 23, 2002. Dearly loved and loving husband, father, brother and granddad. Survived by his wife Margot, sons Glenn and Mark, brothers Charles and Paul (Billingham), sister Elizabeth Rowland, grandchildren Matthew and Dana and a host of friends. 
 BARASH-David. December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Laura Goodfriend and Stephanie Becker. Cherished grandfather of Scott Becker, Lisa and Galen Giebler, Lawrence and Jennifer Goodfriend, Amy and Jon Nussbaum. Proud great-grandfather of Cadie Mae. Loving c
 BROWNSTEIN - Jerome. Born September 1, 1931, in917 Troy, NY. Died of colon cancer January 19, 2003, at the age of 71. A graduate of Russell Sage College and Albany Union Law School, he was a practicing attorney for 45 years. A true Renaissance man, he was also a calligrapher, entrepreneur, 
 CARSTENS-Conrad S., 72. A former New York City public relations executive, died Jan. 24 in Palmyra, VA. A native of Manhasset, NY, he graduated from Dartmouth College and the Columbia School of Journalism and he served 2 years in the US Army. He was with the Dickson Basford Agency for 35 ye
 CONSTON-Eve. The Board of Directors and the staff of our two organizations extend our heartfelt condolences to our Vice President, Henry S. Conston, Esq., on the loss of his beloved spouse. Our thoughts are with him. Margaret Tietz Center for Nursing Care George Berlstein, Chairman The New 
 FLEISHER-Martin, aged 77. On January 24, 2003. Professor Emeritus of Political Science at Brooklyn College and the Graduate Center, CUNY. Beloved father of Eve and David. His love and devotion will be deeply missed. Memorial services will be held at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam 
 FOX-Albert. On January 27, at 94 years of age. Beloved husband of the late Anita Fox, father of Marjorie Hilton and Barbara Fox, grandfather of Alexis Hilton Mintz and Alison Hilton, father-in-law of Joseph Hilton and James Freund. He lived a long and exemplary life and we will miss him ter
 GUTNER-Monroe. Lover of the arts and all things Italian, Monroe died on Januray 25, 2003, age 91 at home in El Territo, CA. with Lillian, his loving wife of 30 years at his side. Beloved husband of the late Betty Arensberg; survived by his brother and sister-in-law Leonard and Gloria Gutner
 HAVES-Morton M. January 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Elayne for over 56 years. Cherished father of Mary and Edward Cooper of Hewlett; Marc and Rita Haves of Manhattan; Laurie and Richard Samuelson of Montreal. Adored grandfather of David, Tanya, Billy, Joanna, and Scott Cooper; Arielle and 
 KARASIK-Eugene, M.D. of New York City. Died January 22 in a tragic accident at age 43. Accomplished physician, Director of Pain Service of Staten Island University Hospital, Founder of Comprehensive Pain Management Platinum Wellness Center. Admired and loved by friends, colleagues and patie
 KING-Victor Henry. Of Palm Beach FL, died January 26, 2003. He was born September 27, 1915 in Colorado Springs, CO. His survivors are Rosalie M. King, his wife, a daughter Devon King Billings and granddaughter Palmer Billings of Denver, CO, stepsons William H. Mellick Jr., Edward G. Mellick
 LOO-Dr. Robert K. Professor at Queensborough Community College. Passed peacefully on December 25, 2002, in Queens, NY. Born in Hawaii on May 1, 1937. Survived by wife Dr. Margaret T. Pan-Loo, four sons and four grandchildren. His family and friends were blessed with his love. The family wil
 LURIO-Donald, the world renowned dancer, choreographer died in Rome, Italy on January 26. He was a beloved inspiration for many and a knight in shining armour for his family. He is mourned by his sisters, Rita and Ann and his niece Elaine and Buddy Gold and their families.       
 McGLYNN-Martin. Gentle man, scholar, a lawyer's lawyer. He was loyal to his family, friends, faith and country. We are honored to have called him friend and colleague. Our deepest sympathy to his family. Hawkins, Feretic, Daly & Maroney       
 MORTON-Herbert C. 81, died on December 21, 2002, at his home in Bethesda, MD. He was an editor and publisher and author of books on economics, the work place, scholarly communication, and lexicography. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Orlans Morton, and two daughters by his first wife Do
 PENTCHEFF-Nicolas. Died December 22, 2002, age 91, after a long illness. Born in Bulgaria. Educated in Bulgaria, London School of Economics (BS) and Columbia University, NY (MA). Reporter for Zora, Sofia's leading daily; sent to London in 1936. Became Press Attache to Bulgarian Legation, Lo
 PERCOPO-Michael W. On January 25, 2003. Undergraduate degree in Chemical Engineering from Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology; Harvard Business School Class of '48; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers '44-'45 in Burma; retired from Squibb in 1986 as Senior Vice President and President of the Inter
 ROSENBLATT - Robert W. 80, on December 28. Loving and devoted husband of Helene (Scheuer). Father of Bill and Roberta, Ron and Susy, David and Robyn, Larry and Linda, Ann and Stuart. Brother of Richard and Lois, Peter and Naomi. Grandfather of Charles, Marc, Becky and Josh and Devon, Casson
 RUBIN-Larry. Of Wyckoff, NJ, died on January 27. A passionate, compassionate educator and social activist who devoted his life to better schools and a better world. A successful accountant who rose to treasurer of Concord Fabrics Inc., he retired from the business world in his 40's to pursu
 SACKS-Roger, D.D.S. A man of honor, great courage and dignity. He was a graduate of Stuyvesant High School 1954, Columbia College 1958, and Columbia College of Dentistry 1962. He was a published cartoonist who brought his wit with him wherever he went. He leaves his beloved wife Arlene, his
 SALANT-Morris S. Age 91. Died in comfort at home on January 26, 2003. Father of Louise and Norman. Husband of the late, beloved Rida. Brother of Benjamin, Samuel, Eileen, the late George and Harry. Brother-in-law of Claire, Marilyn, the late Florence. Family patriarch. Great grandson of Chi
 SKINNER-Dr. David B. January 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Ellie. Cherished father of Linda and her husband David Callans, Kristin, Carise and her husband Roger Rowley and Margaret. Devoted grandfather of Christopher, Lauren, Anra and Ian. Loving brother of Donald and his wife Shirley and th
 WARNOCK - Maurice J. (''Moose''), former Chairman of the Board of Armstrong World Industries, founding member of The Business Roundtable, Honorary Vice Chairman of the National Association of Manufacturers, former Director and Regional Vice-Chairman of BIPAC (Business-Industry Political Act
 ZILDJIAN-Armand. Of Scottsdale, Arizona, and Quechee, Vermont (formerly Hingham, MA), President and Chairman of the Zildjian Company in Norwell, MA, died Thursday at his home in Scottsdale. He was 81. Born in Quincy, he attended local schools, including Thayer Academy and Colgate University
 ZIMMERMAN-Dr. Louis. On December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Helen Helfstein Zimmerman. Devoted father of Peter Max Zimmerman and Mindy Zimmerman Colton. Dear fatherin-law of Paul Franklin Colton. Dear brother of the late Ida Revitz and Zeta Turtle. Also survived by other loving f
 PERLBINDER-Arnold. Cherished memories of a man larger than life, keeps him with us. The Family       
 Richard A. Clarke, a former chairman and chief executive of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, died on Dec. 14 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 72. The cause was complications of Lou Gehrig's disease, the company said in announcing his death. Mr. Clarke led Pacifi
 Armand Zildjian, who ran a family-owned company that has been making cymbals for almost 400 years, died on Thursday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 81 and also had a home in Quechee, Vt. The cause was cancer, the family said. The company, Avedis Zildjian, now based i
 Edward J. Kulik, an insurance executive who led the revival of the Chrysler Building in the midst of New York's fiscal meltdown of the 1970's, died Thursday at a hospital in Springfield, Mass. He was 76 and lived in Longmeadow, Mass. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said.    
 Joel Buchsbaum, who turned a thwarted childhood interest in sports into a career as a nationally recognized analyst of professional football, died on Sunday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 48. Ellen Borokove, a spokeswoman for the medical examiner's office, said he died of natural c
 ALLEN-John Davison, R.A., AIA. An incredible man of outstanding personal integrity and discerning ability, with a heart of gold and an unlimited love of friends, opera, food and wine. A truly giving man, a superb cook, an incredible host, an outstanding architect and former member of the Bo
 BACCAGLINI - Edmond J. The former and present members of the Office of the Inspector General, NYC-SCA, record in sorrow the passing of their beloved colleague and leader, a founding member of the IG's Office. Before serving as an Assistant IG, he had been a NYPD Deputy Inspector and a Comma
 BARASH-David. December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Laura Goodfriend and Stephanie Becker. Cherished grandfather of Scott Becker, Lisa and Galen Giebler, Lawrence and Jennifer Goodfriend, Amy and Jon Nussbaum. Proud great-grandfather of Cadie Mae. Loving c
 BASHKIN-Edmund Allen, 71. Of 3 Brenttonwood Drive, Simsbury, CT, husband of Iris (Fortgang) Bashkin, died, December 29, 2002. Born August 13, 1931 in New York City, son of the late Reuben and Raissa (Silin) Bashkin. He lived in New York City prior to moving to Connecticut, where he lived fo
 DEKONINCK - Paul. Paul's colleagues at Thinc Design mourn his untimely death, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Jessica, to his children Isabel and Henry, and to his entire family. Paul was an architect and designer of extraordinary talent, insight and originality who contrib
 KEISER-Basil Edward. Beloved son of David M. and Sylvia Keiser. Died at his home in Redding, CT. on December 15, 2002. Survived by loving daughter, Frances Juliane Keiser & granddaughter Nadia, and his siblings Florence, David S. & Peter. A memorial service will be held Saturday, January 4,
 NOURSE-Joan Thellusson. 81 on December 29, 2002. Wife of the late Philip E. Nourse. Beloved mother of Kathleen M. Romano and William P. Nourse, and his wife Deia Argue Nourse. Grandmother of Autumn Joy, Deia Joel and Joelle Marie. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, 10:30AM, Our Lady of Espe
 RITTS-Herb. The Bard College community mourns the passing of Herb Ritts, '75, an outstanding alumnus, whose talent, skill, and artistry, as well as his empathy and great personal warmth, led him to the top of his field. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. He will sorely missed.
 SAMUROVICH - Theodore Simeon. ''Theo'', 35, of New York City, NY, beloved husband of Deborah Nichole (Blake) Samurovich, died on Sunday, December 29, 2002. His family will receive friends on Thursday, January 2, from 6-9PM at the Carmon Windsor Funeral Home, 807 Bloomfield Ave., Windsor, CT
 SILVERBUSH-Seymour Herbert, on December 29, 2002. Born August 12, 1916, in NYC. Retired independent businessman, union organizer, and veteran of WWII. Beloved husband of Elsie Wagner Silverbush for 62 years. Devoted and loving father of Jeffrey and Michael, and father-in-law of Andrea, Leno
 SOLOMON-George J. On December 29, 2002, beloved husband of the late Joan Solomon. Survived by his sister Roslyn Cohn, his children Andrew, Barney and Elizabeth Solomon, his daughter-in-law Elizabeth Bartman, and granddaughter Daria Solomon. Funeral services at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel,
 ZIMMERMAN-Dr. Louis. On December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Helen Helfstein Zimmerman. Devoted father of Peter Max Zimmerman and Mindy Zimmerman Colton. Dear fatherin-law of Paul Franklin Colton. Dear brother of the late Ida Revitz and Zeta Turtle. Also survived by other loving f
 BRADLEY-John Francis II. Passed to Heaven with our Lord Jesus Christ, December 31, 1952. Loving husband of Florence Duddy Bradley, deceased 1970. Survived by his son John Francis Bradley III, John and Virginia Connolly (Bradley), James and Edda Bradley, and many grandchildren, grandnieces a
