 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian whose more than 20 books shaped discussions for two generations about America's past and who himself was a provocative, unabashedly liberal partisan, most notably in serving in the Kennedy White House, died last night in Manhattan. He was 89.        
 HARNICK--Jay. The Board of Directors, the Founders Circle, and staff of TheatreworksUSA mourn the passing of our beloved emeritus Artistic Director and founder, Jay Harnick, who guided and shaped the development of Theatreworks. For over forty years Jay's artistic judgment was integral to o
 HORTON--Jules founder and former Chairman of Horton Lees Lighting Design died at his home on February 23rd at the age of 87. Jules was born in Warsaw, Poland, came to New York in 1947 after WWII to pursue a Masters at Columbia University in engineering. He was one of the first generation of
 JANSIC--Anthony Francis, Jr. died at his home in Yorktown Heights, NY, on February 28, 2007, after a long struggle with cancer. Tony was born in Cleveland, OH, on March 2, 1918 to Anthony Francis Jansic and Gertrude Ryan Jansic. After graduating high school, Tony served in the Armed Forces 
 SCHANBAM--Bernard H. D.D.S., 93, of Middletown, NJ, died on February 11 at his home in Shadow Lake Village. He leaves a deeply devoted wife, Lee Davis Schanbam, to whom he was married for 70 years. Their greatly loved son, Seth, died at the age of 12. Born in Bayonne, NJ, he graduated from 
 SIERRA--Miguel A. (Mike), 77, beloved husband of Mary Foy Sierra died Saturday, February 24. He was a devoted father to Michael, Kathy and Eileen, father-in-law to Fresia and doting grandfather to Michael and Ryan. Mass of Christian burial will be offered on Saturday, March 3rd, in Miami.  
 SPURR--Gregory W, Jr., 83, of Stuart, FL, previously of Short Hills, NJ, died Monday, February 26, at his home. Born in Rye, NY, Mr. Spurr was a resident of Stuart for 18 years. He received his B.A. from Yale University and his MBA from the Amos Tuck Business School. During WWII, he served 
 TYROLER--Dr. Herman Alfred, died February 18, age 82, in Chapel Hill, NC. A loving and generous husband, father, grandfather, and brother, he is survived by wife Marilyn (Chapel Hill); children William (Milwaukee), Barbara (Greenbelt, MD) and Steven (Chapel Hill); grandchildren Samm Tyroler
 Thomas C. Burke, a lawyer who was a member of the New York City Board of Education in the 1960s and a trustee of the Altman Foundation, which owned the Fifth Avenue department store B. Altman & Company, died Friday in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Watch Hill, R.I. The 
 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian whose more than 20 books shaped discussions for two generations about America's past and who himself was a provocative, unabashedly liberal partisan, most notably while serving in the Kennedy White House, died Wednesday night in Manhattan. He was 89.
 Bobby Rosengarden, a jazz drummer who worked with musicians from Igor Stravinsky to Jimi Hendrix but became best known for making musical wisecracks as the bandleader on ''The Dick Cavett Show,'' died Tuesday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 82. The cause was kidney failure, said his wife, 
 Charles Forte, the owner of a hotel and restaurant empire that ranged from the Waldorf Hotel in London to the budget chain Travelodge, died on Wednesday at his home in London. He was 98. His death was announced by Sue Heady, a spokeswoman for the hotel company owned by Mr. Forte's s
 Emmett Williams, an American poet whose transposition of words into visual art and performances made him one of the founding artists of Fluxus, a performance-oriented avant-garde art movement of the 1960s, died on Feb. 14 in Berlin. He was 81 and had lived in Berlin for many years. 
 Herman Brix, who played football in the Rose Bowl, set world shot-put records and portrayed Tarzan in the movies before becoming a dapper Hollywood leading man, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 100, but for 34 years he had been Bruce Bennett, the name he took to pursue a clas
 Jay Harnick, a founder of Theaterworks/USA, the nation's largest touring children's theater company, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 78. He died at the Isabella House nursing home after a long illness, said his daughter, Jane Harnick. Since Mr. Harnick helped to start T
 BERKMAN--Kenneth S. The entire law firm of Berkman, Henoch, Peterson & Peddy, P.C. mourns with extreme sadness the sudden death of a founder of the firm, Kenneth S. Berkman. From the day the firm opened its doors 25 years ago until the day of his death, Ken devoted his considerable energy a
 FUTTERMAN--William James. Born December 29, 1949, in Brooklyn, NY. Died February 15, 2007, in Plantation, FL. He is survived by his brother, Michael Lewis Futterman, of Lake Worth, FL, and his loving nieces and nephew: Adam Futterman, Erin Futterman, Eden Compton.       
 MACKOWSKI--John J. Dies at 81. John J. Mackowski, insurance executive and proponent for corporate responsibility and ethical practice, died of lung cancer February 24, at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida. He was 81. Mr. Mackowski was the former Chairman and CEO of The Atlantic Compani
 SIERRA--Miguel A. (Mike), 77, beloved husband of Mary Foy Sierra died Saturday, February 24. He was a devoted father to Michael, Kathy and Eileen, father-in-law to Fresia and doting grandfather to Michael and Ryan. Mass of Christian burial will be offered on Saturday, March 3rd, in Miami.  
 SCHLESINGER--Arthur M., Jr.: The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt. $(6$)SCHLESINGER--Arthur M., Jr. The Trustees and staff of The Library of America are saddened by the death of Arthur M. Schlesi
 Percival Leach, who helped turn a ramshackle collection of pre-Revolutionary and mid-19th-century buildings along an old industrial canal in northern New Jersey into Waterloo Village, a version of Colonial Williamsburg, died on Monday in Hackettstown, N.J. He was 80 and lived in a restored 
 Clem Labine, the All-Star relief pitcher of the 1950s who helped bring the Brooklyn Dodgers four pennants and their only World Series championship, died yesterday in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 80. The cause was a pair of strokes he sustained after being hospitalized with pneumonia, sai
 Myer Feldman, an aide to President John F. Kennedy who remained virtually unknown to the public while playing an integral role in planning his presidential campaign, White House press conferences and governmental policies, died Thursday in Bethesda, Md. He was 92. His son, James, an
 GRAY--Gordon Spotswood. Gordon S. Gray of Wilson, WY, age 73, died at his home Sunday morning, February 25, 2007. Gordon was born November 3, 1933, in New York City to Mr. and Mrs. William Steele Gray, Jr. He attended the Groton School (1951) and was a graduate of Princeton University (1955
 LEVIS--Richard W. Lifetime partner, best friend and colleague of Lou duCharme, died on February 23, 2007, at home in Palm Desert, California. Born December 13, 1933, in Los Angeles and raised in the San Francisco Bay area, he attended George Washington High School and was a graduate of the 
 POLLACK--Ronald William, of Mahopac, died March 1, 2007. He was born on February 18, 1942 to Aleck and Ethel Pollack in Mt. Vernon, New York. Ron was married to Marge Shapiro on July 2, 1967. Ron was educated in Mt. Vernon and graduated A.B. Davis High School. After high school, Ron obtaine
 SHULMAN--Mel. The members of Quest, a community for lifelong learning, mourn the loss of our president who was one of our founders. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Pearl and his family. $(6$)SHULMAN--Melvin N. Loving husband to Pearl. Loving father to Jay (Elaine), Shelly (Carol). Loving g
 SPECTOR--Marshall. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Marshall Spector. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Barbara and to the entire family. Patricia Sumergrade, President Richard J. Bronstein, Sec
 STREUSAND--Alan. Alan Streusand, a scholar and a gentleman, passed away on February 28th. He was very much loved by Shirley and Arthur. Rest peacefully, dear Alan, with your lovely Jane. We love you and miss you. With heartfelt condolences to Babs, Kit and Doug.       
 KEMPINSKI--Theodore B., Jr. 62, of Manhattan died February 27, 2007, after a courageous battle with Lung Cancer. He was a beloved son of Jean Di Maio Kempinski, and the late Theodore B. Kempinski, Sr. The adored and adoring father Francesca Kempinski, the devoted brother of the late Sherry 
 SCHLESINGER--Arthur M., Jr. The Academy of Political Science and Political Science Quarterly are deeply saddened by the death of the eminent political and social historian, Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. Arthur Schlesinger has been a valued member of the Academy for over 45 years, and an active
 Erich Windisch, whose adjustment to an injured shoulder reshaped the sport of ski jumping, bringing competitors' arms to their sides, died Feb. 14 near his home in Vail, Colo. He was 89. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Sasha. It was during a tournament in his native
 BERSCH--Richard L., of Sarasota, FL, formerly of Livingston, NJ, died on March 2, 2007 at the age of 72. Predeceased by his wife Jeanne Harris, he was the beloved father of Donna, Suzie, and Ronnie and the adored grandfather of seven grandchildren. He is also survived by his brother Neil an
 CAMPBELL--Charles J. The faculty of the department of Ophthalmology at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons with the staff of the E.S. Harkness Eye Institute of New York Presbyterian Hospital, deeply mourn the passing of this gifted physician-scientist, former Chairman of 
 DICKERSON--Roy Hobbs, of Vinings, GA, died on February 28, 2007. He was born in Kansas City, MO, on April 8, 1924 and lived most of his life in Metropolitan NY. He leaves behind two daughters: Lynn Stuart of Memphis, TN and Ann Ogburn of Acworth, GA, and wife, Sue Hruby, of West Tisbury, MA
 FEIN--Lester. The Board of Directors, staff and athletes of Maccabi USA/Sports for Israel mourn the loss of our dear friend and leader, Lester Fein. The impact of his caring and dedication will be felt for many years to come. Lester was a gentle soul with a brilliant mind and a kind heart w
 HARRICE--Cy. The Offices, Governors, and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Cy Harrice on February 14, 2007. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. A memorial will be held this summer in Wyoming. Jerry Lewis, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean
 LEVIS--Richard W. Lifetime partner, best friend and colleague of Lou duCharme, died on February 23, 2007, at home in Palm Desert, California. Born December 13, 1933, in Los Angeles and raised in the San Francisco Bay area, he attended George Washington High School and was a graduate of the 
 PIPER--Alexander R., III. Died on September 20th, 2006 in Australia. Since his retirement, he had been traveling spending most of his time in Akaroa, New Zealand. Sandy's career began at Paine Webber, where he advanced to Partner and Head of Equity and Derivative Trading. Sandy was a member
 POLLACK--Ronald. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Ron Pollack, recently retired Director of Financial Aide. For 27 years, this gifted, dedicated, nationally recognized expert in his field, provided thousands of students with expanded access to a college
 ROSENGARDEN--Bob. The Hamilton College Jazz Archive and the entire Hamilton community mourn the death of world - renowned jazz drummer Bob Rosengarden. An annual performer on campus and the recipient of a Hamilton honorary degree, Bob's association with the college enriched and inspired our
 SNAPE--Richard R., died Thursday, March 1, 2007, at home in Morris Township, NJ, surrounded by his loving family. Husband of Annette Teta Snape for 20 years. Father of Alexander. Son of the late Jay Snape and Elizabeth Murray Macht. Brother of Carolyn Snape of Seattle, WA, Katharine Snape F
 SPECTOR--Marshall, 79, a senior executive with American Biltrite and Rubber Company and President and Founder of Greenwich Options, and a member of the New York Stock Exchange, died after a long illness at Beaumont Medical Center in Philadelphia, PA. Mr. Spector, a native of New York City, 
 SPORN--Paul. A Marxist English Professor who started out as a factory worker and labor organizer, Paul Sporn died on February 27, in New York at 85. Born in New York, he migrated to Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago and back to New York. He was an activist and a scholar for nearly sixty years. Duri
 SPURR--Gregory W, Jr., 83, of Stuart, FL, previously of Short Hills, NJ, died Monday, February 26, at his home. Born in Rye, NY, Mr. Spurr was a resident of Stuart for 18 years. He received his B.A. from Yale University and his MBA from the Amos Tuck Business School. During WWII, he served 
 WEINBERG--Arnold, of Palm Desert, California, formerly of Woodmere, New York and Cornwall Bridge, CT, died March 1, at the age of 80 after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved husband, honored father and respected businessman, he is survived by his wife Carol, his children Sydny Weinberg M
 KEMPINSKI--Theodore B., Jr. 62, of Manhattan died February 27, 2007, after a courageous battle with Lung Cancer. He was a beloved son of Jean Di Maio Kempinski, and the late Theodore B. Kempinski, Sr. The adored and adoring father Francesca Kempinski, the devoted brother of the late Sherry 
 RITTENBERG--Arthur. A WWII combat Marine and a dedicated Red Sox fan. Our dear witty friend, we'll miss you Art. Judi and Jack Howard and Gloria $(6$)RITTENBERG--Arthur M., 81, of Piermont, NY, passed away on Friday, March 2, 2007. He was born on May 3, 1925 in Boston, MA. He is sur
 SCHLESINGER--Arthur M, Jr. If there is one man more than any other who helped us understand the meaning of the Four Freedoms and the generation that fought and died to keep the flame of democracy alive it was Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. His formidable contributions to twentiethcentury thought a
 SACHAR--Irving, 15 years. Remembering his kindness and generosity. Randi and Michael, his beloved children       
 ALPERT--Warren, late of New York City, entered into rest March 3, 2007. Founder and Chairman of Warren Equities, Inc. and the Warren Alpert Foundation. Dear son of the late Goodman and Tina (Howowitz) Alpert. Loving brother of the late Bess Litner, Benjamin Alpert, Mary R. Kaplan, and Pearl
 CAMPBELL--Charles J., March 1, at 80. Ophthalmologist. Emeritus Professor of Ophthalmology, Columbia University and Director, Edward S. Harkness Eye Institute, Presbyterian Hospital, New York. Survived by his loving and devoted wife Mary Catherine, his children Dr. Catherine M. Campbell, Ba
 COX--Denton Sayer, M.D. of Manhattan 79, died March 3, 2007. Son of Doctor and Mrs. William Wheeler Cox of Montclair, NJ. A graduate of Yale University and Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons. He was honored by and a member of numerous Medical and Scientific Associations and Societi
 FRANK--Stephen, 72, passed away on March 2, 2007. Formerly of New York City and Westchester, NY. He fought a long and valiant battle against Acute Myelogeneous Leukemia. A loving caring husband, father, grandfather, friend and mentor. He is survived by Elisabeth Gertrud his wife for 42 year
 HEALY--Harold Harris, Jr. Husband of Elizabeth D. Healy, father of H. Harris Healy III, died March 4, at Mount Sinai Hospital. In addition to a long career as a partner of the firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, he served in the US Department of Justice, was Chairman and Treasurer of the Legal Ai
 SNAPE--Richard R., died Thursday, March 1, 2007, at home in Morris Township, NJ, surrounded by his loving family. Husband of Annette Teta Snape for 20 years. Father of Alexander. Son of the late Jay Snape and Elizabeth Murray Macht. Brother of Carolyn Snape of Seattle, WA, Katharine Snape F
 SPORN--Paul. A Marxist English Professor who started out as a factory worker and labor organizer, Paul Sporn died on February 27, in New York at 85. Born in New York, he migrated to Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago and back to New York. He was an activist and a scholar for nearly sixty years. Duri
 STILLMAN--Sidney, D.D.S. 85, on March 3, 2007. Cherished husband of Shirley, devoted father of Harriet and Mark, loving father-in-law of Richard and Patricia. Adored by his grandson David. Dear brother of Anna and Nathan (deceased). A kind, gentle soul, veteran of the European Theater of WW
 WEINBERG--Arnold, of Palm Desert, California, formerly of Woodmere, New York and Cornwall Bridge, CT, died March 1, at the age of 80 after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved husband, honored father and respected businessman, he is survived by his wife Carol, his children Sydny Weinberg M
 Thomas F. Eagleton, a former United States senator whose legislative accomplishments were overshadowed by his removal as the Democratic vice presidential candidate in 1972 after revelations of mental illness and electroshock therapy, died yesterday in Richmond Heights, Mo. He was 77 and liv
 Bob Hattoy, who drew wide attention with a nationally televised speech about AIDS at the 1992 Democratic National Convention and then became a forceful advocate for gay and lesbian issues in the Clinton White House, died on Sunday in Sacramento. He was 56. The cause was complication
 Henri Troyat, the Russian-born French writer whose novels and biographies earned him an immense following in France and considerable recognition abroad, died here on Sunday. He was 95. His death was announced by the Académie Française, of which he was a member. Mr. Troyat 
 ALPERT--Warren, late of New York City, entered into rest March 3, 2007. Founder and Chairman of Warren Equities, Inc. and the Warren Alpert Foundation. Dear son of the late Goodman and Tina (Horowitz) Alpert. Loving brother of the late Bess Litner, Benjamin Alpert, Mary R. Kaplan, and Pearl
 HEALY--Harold Harris, Jr. Husband of Elizabeth D. Healy, father of H. Harris Healy III, died March 4, at Mount Sinai Hospital. An alumnus of Yale College (1943) and of Yale Law School (1949). He had a long career as a partner of the firm of Debevoise & Plimpton. He served in the US Departme
 KOGAN--Richard D., of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband, loving father and proud grandfather. He is survived by his wife Gail, his children Kimberly, Daniel and Jill, his grandson Samuel, his mother Eleanor, his sisters Barbara and Cathy and his mother-inlaw Joan. His warmth and humor live on
 LYNCH--Charles W., Sr., of Denville, NJ, on March 3, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on June 19, 1912. Beloved husband of the late Helen Murray. Survived by his four children, Charles W. Jr. and Kristina of Easton, CT, Larry and Norene of Skillman, NJ, Richard and Linda of Morris Plains, NJ, an
 SIEGEL--Irene. Beloved mother of Janice and Roslyn. Beloved mother-in-law of Peter and Walter. Beloved sister of Miriam. Beloved grandmother of Ivan and his wife Gloria. Beloved aunt of nieces Sheila and Gail. Beloved companion of Al Sofer. Irene, who passed away on March 4th, 2007, will li
 SWEENEY--CHARLES (Chuck) F., on March 1st, 2007, at his home in Philadelphia, PA. Beloved husband and best friend of Nina. Devoted brother of Margaret Schneider. Also survived by nieces and nephews. He was in the Army Medical Corp in WWII. He was a song writer and composer. He was recognize
 William R. Anderson, who commanded the nuclear-powered submarine Nautilus on its historic cruise beneath the North Pole in August 1958 and who later served three terms in Congress, died Feb. 25 near his home in Leesburg, Va. He was 85. His wife, Patricia, confirmed the death to The 
 The French critic and provocateur Jean Baudrillard, whose theories about consumer culture and the manufactured nature of reality were intensely discussed both in rarefied philosophical circles and in blockbuster movies like ''The Matrix,'' died yesterday in Paris. He was 77. Michel 
 Martin A. Trow, a sociologist whose research on higher education reverberated through North America and Europe, particularly his description of the transition of a college education from elite privilege to mass product, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 80. Th
 ALPERT--Warren. Sutton Place Synagogue records with sorrow the passing of our distinguished past president who served for seven years. An outstanding philanthropist, he strove to make us the best we could be. His strong ambition was largely responsible for the construction of our current Sy
 CAMPBELL--Charles J. Dr. Campbell served with distinction as a faculty member and clinician at Columbia University Medical Center from 1957 until retiring in 1987. His dedication to eye care and to technological developments that advanced the field provides a legacy that benefits patients t
 HAGHIGHI--Houchang, December 18, 1938 -March 2, 2007. A great man, an unparalleled father and an amazing husband, Houchang came to America in search of a better life and left this world having bettered the lives of all those who knew him. His family and helping those who were without was hi
 HEALY--Harold Harris, Jr. Husband of Elizabeth D. Healy, father of H. Harris Healy III, died March 4, at Mount Sinai Hospital. An alumnus of Yale College (1943) and of Yale Law School (1949). He had a long career as a partner of the firm of Debevoise & Plimpton. He served in the US Departme
 LOWEN--Theodore W., 88, of Rockville Centre, New York on March 3, 2007. Predeceased by Eileen, his beloved wife of 54 years. Loving father of Theodore W. III and Michael H. Loving grandfather of Katherine W., Theodore B., and Luke M. Beloved fatherin-law of Carey and Tara. Retired Chairman 
 McGIVNEY--Thomas A. Loving father and husband, Legal Aid Attorney, history scholar, beloved by many. Mr. McGivney was a man with the gift of true friendship; all of his friends, wherever they may be, are thinking of him now. Wake at M.J. Smith & Sons, beginning Tuesday. Services Thursday 9:
 MELCHER--George. The Board of Directors and Officers of Group Health Inc. (GHI), express our deepest sympathy to the Melcher family upon the passing of George Melcher, noted Physician, author, and public servant. George served unselfishly as GHI's President from 1966 to 1981, and we mourn h
 PLATT--Harvey, 99, at his home of the past 14 years, the Jewish Home and Hospital, Bronx Campus. Former Executive Vice President, District One, B'nai B'rith and inspirational voice to the community. Beloved husband of Miriam Barth Platt (deceased) and dear father of Judy (deceased) and Lois
 SODDEN--Jacob Rabbi. Charles and Anna Ellenberg Foundation, deeply mourn the death of Rabbi Jacob Sodden who was a member of the board for over half a century. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Jean and family. Rabbi David Hollander, President       
 Jay Haley, an early theorist of family therapy who in the 1960s advocated hypnosis and deeper social involvement for patients to cure emotional problems more rapidly, died on Feb. 13 at his home in San Diego. He was 83. Mr. Haley's death was confirmed by his family. As a tra
 ADLER--Mordant (Mort) D.M.D., was 87 when he passed away at home on March 7, 2007. His beloved wife of 59 years, Sunny, his cherished daughter Kiva, and the incredible nurses of the Hospice of Palm Beach County were constantly by his side. He died in a peaceful way with courage, dignity and
 BOTTARI--Gregory J, a lifelong resident of Pelham Manor and a summer resident of Point Lookout, NY died on March 6th, 2007 at Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle, NY. He was 54 years of age. Mr. Bottari worked as a Financial Planner for Sagemark Consulting, a division of The Lincoln 
 CHILDS--Daniel Robbins, age 71, of Norton, CT and Nantucket, MA, died Sunday, March 4th, while on vacation on Grand Cayman Island. He was born in New York City on August 20, 1935, to the late Alixandra Hitchcock Childs and Frederick Robbins Childs. He attended The Allen-Stevenson School, Th
 ENDICO--Felix Anthony; 86, of New Rochelle, New York, died March 6, 2007. Born in the Bronx, New York, to Josephine and William Endico, Felix attended DeWitt Clinton High School where he was an All-American football player. He received a football scholarship to the University of Alabama and
 GALLO--Ernest. Buchman Law Firm, LLP, and Abraham M. Buchman, Mentoring Partner, are deeply saddened at the passing of Ernest Gallo, a personal friend and Wine Industry Giant and Leader. Ernest Gallo and his late brother, Julio, created a new business of wine-making in the United States, wh
 HEALY--Harold H., Jr. The Board and Staff of the Metropolitan Opera Guild mourn the death of our board member, Harold Healy. Hank, as he was affectionately known, joined our board in 1975 and served with great distinction as Treasurer and Vice President, as well as on many committees. We wi
 HILLER--Frederic. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Frederic Hiller. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence Glass, President       
 KELLEHER--Peter, 51, a long time resident of Manhattan, passed away peacefully on March 6, 2007. He leaves behind his partner, Christopher Marlowe of New York City, his father, Thomas Kelleher of Worcester, Massachusetts, his sisters Margaret Kelleher of Rowayton, Connecticut, Susan Sinnott
 PRINCE--Robert (Bob), May 10, 1929 to March 4, 2007. Beloved husband of 57 years to wife, Arline Bleier Prince, loving father of Diane Prince of Chico, California and William Prince of Berkeley, California. Grandfather to Jenny Wren, Asher, and Benjamin, and great grandfather of Max Edgar, 
 ZEISLER--Richard S. With respect and sadness, The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center notes the passing of Richard S. Zeisler, a Board member of our organization since its inception in 1969. He was a true gentleman, an art collector, and a philanthropist who supported a wide range of cu
 TSIGRIKES--Constantine (Gus), 86 of Yonkers, NY and NYC passed away on March 5, 2007 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a short illness. He is survived by his wife of 56 years Mary (Kaperonis), their four children, Peter, George (Jude), Paul and Helene Tsigrikes Bapis, two grandchildre
 Paul Secon, who in 1949 loaded the family station wagon with discontinued and slightly damaged ceramics from an upstate New York factory, drove to Manhattan and opened the first Pottery Barn store, died Feb. 24 at his home in Rochester. He was 91. The death was confirmed by his brot
 Winthrop D. Jordan, a National Book Award-winning historian who wrote several influential works on American slavery and race relations, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Oxford, Miss. He was 75. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, said his wife, Cora. 
 John J. McCabe, who held top executive positions at five newspapers, including The New York Times, and also served in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, died on Wednesday at his home in Medford, Mass. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, his son John Jr. said. 
 Nils Y. Wessell, who as president of Tufts University from 1953 to 1966 guided its transformation from a small college to a respected university, died Sunday near his home in Naples, Fla. He was 92. The death was confirmed by his son, Nils H. Wessell. Dr. Wessell oversaw the
 ALPERT--Warren. It is with genuine sadness that the Dean, faculty, and staff of Harvard Medical School acknowledge the passing of Warren Alpert, a generous benefactor and enthusiastic supporter of the Medical School. His philanthropy is exemplified by his endowment of both the Warren Alpert
 CAMPBELL--Charles J., M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Charles J. Campbell, the former ophthalmologist-in-chief and executive officer at the E.S. Harkness Eye Institute of NewYork Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, where he served with distinction for
 CHILDS--Daniel R. The Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art mourn the passing of Daniel R. Childs. He was a Trustee of the Whitney Museum from 1975 to 1980. His many contributions to the art world will not be forgotten. We extend condolences to his entire family. Adam D. 
 CYCLEMAN--Monroe A. and Rosalie W.: Monroe A. Cycleman, D.D.S. of Cedarhurst and Lake George, NY passed away at St. John's Episcopal Hospital. His dear wife, Rosalie, passed away on the same day after a very brief illness. A private family funeral was held for both on February 28th.       
 HACZYNSKI--Leo J., Ph.D., 81, died March 4th at Briar Cliff Manor in Johnston, Rhode Island. A native of Woonsocket, Rhode Island, he receive a B.S. from the University of Rhode Island and an M.A. and Ph.D. from Fordham University. He was a popular and inspiring teacher at Power Memorial Ac
 HILLER--Frederic, beloved husband of Catherine Hiller, passed away on March 7, 2007, at age 91. Fred was born on October 20, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY. Forced by the Depression to leave high school in order to support his family, he became, on his father's death, the sole provider for his mother
 LITTELL--David. Beloved husband of Ronnie; father of Bruce (and Heather) and Scott (and Sherri); grandfather of Nicole (and Tom), Danielle, Brent, Griffin, Marissa, Erika; great-grandfather to Emma and Jack. After serving his country during WWII he went on to lead a distinguished career in 
 ROCKMORE--Benjamin. With love and sadness, the family of Benjamin Rockmore mourns his death on March 8, 2007.       
 ROWLAND--Herbert L., 81, passed away from complications due to Multiple Myeloma on February 8, 2007. He will always be remembered as a visionary and pioneer in the Public Relations field, who created one of the world's largest PR Firms, Rowland Worldwide. A singular man of unsurpassed warmt
 SCHUUR--Robert G., of New York, NY, died on March 3, 2007, surrounded by his family. Born in Kalamazoo, MI, Bob was a graduate of the University of Michigan Law School and a veteran of the United States Navy. A New Yorker for over 50 years, Bob was a partner at Reid & Priest and one of the 
 SODDEN--Rabbi Jacob. The Van Cortlandt Jewish Center mourns the passing of their esteemed Rabbi Jacob Sodden. He was our Rabbi and spiritual leader for 60 years. He will be remembered and missed by the entire Van Cortlandt family. He was a kind, compassionate man who cared very much about h
 WERBELL--Frederick Rabbi, 65, died on March 4, 2007. Brought to light the story of WWII hero Raoul Wallenberg. Mourned by his daughter, brother, sister-in-law, niece, nephew, family and friends in Sweden, Israel and England.       
 ZEISLER--Richard. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum, and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and long time supporter, Richard Zeisler. We expend sympathies to his family. Stephen S. Lash, President, AFIM. James S. Snyder, Anne &
 Agustín Tamargo, an outspoken Cuban journalist who strongly criticized the regime of Fidel Castro in print and on the radio in Miami, where he became a leading voice of the exile community, died Wednesday in Miami Beach. He was 82. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter Li
 ESCOBAR--Ralph Eugene, 74, passed away suddenly Saturday, March 3, 2007. He is survived by his three sons, Christopher, David and Matthew; four daughters, Tammy, April, Chrissy and Theresa. Mr. Escobar, a native New Yorker, was a system design engineer at Grumman Aerospace where he worked o
 GLENN--Terry K., on March 8, 2007, of Bryn Athyn, PA. Husband of Eileen Glenn, father of Erin Glenn Busby and Brooke Glenn Mullin, son of Hope Glenn and the late Theodore Glenn. He is also survived by a granddaughter Katherine Busby, brother Scott Glenn and a sister Bonnie Frazier. Mr. Glen
 KAYE--Walter, 79, passed away on March 8, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, NY, August 22, 1927. Devoted husband of Bernice, loving father of Steven and Russell and proud grandfather of Lauren and Jason. Mr. Kaye originated the concept of refactoring and founded Merchant Refactors Corp., the first co
 LUEY--Danny L., 47, beloved father, husband, and son, died February 25, 2007 in a tragic car accident. Danny survived both September 11, where he was working on the 74 th floor of One World Trade Center, and the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. Born March 24, 1959 in Ft. Lewis, Washi
 SCHUR--Joseph Allen, of Tamarac, FL died peacefully at home on March 9, 2007 with his family at his side. He enjoyed 91 years of a full life, giving himself generously to his entire family and dear friends. He supported himself through college as a musician and graduated City College in 193
 ZEISLER--Richard S. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Richard S. Zeisler. A MoMA member since 1950, Richard joined the Board of Trustees in 1979 and was elected a Life Trustee in 1995. He served with distinction and dedication as a member of the Interna
 LIEBERBAUM--Sheldon, on March 7, 2007. Husband of Carol. Father of Suzie and Jonny. Pappa Shelly to Rachel, David, Kyle, Matthew and Eric. Brother of Michael. Father-in-law of Stephen and Kimberly. A true mensch who was loved by his friends, family and fine doggies and who loved them back i
 Warren Alpert, an entrepreneur who sold sheets and towels from his father's truck at age 13 and who two months ago donated $100 million to Brown University, died on March 3 in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The death was confirmed by his nephew Herbert Kaplan, presiden
 AKAISHI--Tadashi, 82, survived by wife Amy, daughters Carolyn Stannard and Janet Akaishi, and seven grandchildren. Died February 28, 2007. A retired Presbyterian minister, he had a long career in publishing: Editor: John Knox Press published ''The Gospel According to Peanuts'' Tournier, ''S
 CADMAN--Larry. The One Club mourns the passing of Larry Cadman, esteemed copywriter and former member of the Board of Directors of The One Club for Art and Copy. Larry died in New York on February 19, 2007 after a brave battle with lung cancer. Born in 1942 in Coldwater, Michigan, Larry gra
 CLARK--Leslie, age 78, Edgewater, died March 7, 2007. Son of the late William L. Clark and Mary Clark Ryan, adored partner of the late Eugene Kowalski; beloved extended family member of Valory and Felix Bardinas, precious friend of Bob Schwartz, Dave Adams and many others. A 1945 graduate o
 GLENN--Terry K., on March 8, 2007, of Bryn Athyn, PA. Husband of Eileen Glenn, father of Erin Glenn Busby and Brooke Glenn Mullin, son of Hope Glenn and the late Theodore Glenn. He is also survived by a granddaughter Katherine Busby, brother Scott Glenn and a sister Bonnie Frazier. Mr. Glen
 GRISTEDE--Charles, 97, of New York, died December 20, 2006. He graduated from Dartmouth College. He worked for Gristede Grocery Stores, which were founded by his father and uncle. He was Vice President when he retired. Charles was married to Zorah White and had one daughter, Amy, both decea
 HALL--Laurence Bartlett, M.D., aged 87, on March 1st, 2007, in Denver. Pioneer in psychoanalytic medicine and education in Denver. A Mayflower descendant and tireless defender of the revolutionary democracy of his ancestors. Beloved husband of Janet, dear father of Ben and Denise Hall, Magg
 HILLER--Frederic, beloved husband of Catherine Hiller, passed away on March 7, 2007, at age 91. Fred was born on October 20, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY. Forced by the Depression to leave high school in order to support his family, he became, on his father's death, the sole provider for his mother
 KAYE--Walter, 79, passed away on March 8, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, NY, August 22, 1927. Devoted husband of Bernice, loving father of Steven and Russell and proud grandfather of Lauren and Jason. Mr. Kaye originated the concept of refactoring and founded Merchant Factors Corp., the first comp
 KEYES--Gary, artist, beloved son and brother, uncle and dear friend, died February 12, 2007, in Las Vegas, after a short illness. Born October 13, 1959, in Bay City, Michigan, Gary graduated with a Bachelor's from Kalamazoo College in 1982 and moved to New York City. In 1990 he opened a han
 LUGOVOY--Julius, (82) of Teaneck, NJ, previously of ''the Coops'', The Bronx, New York died in his home on March 7, 2007. Since retiring as Chief Clinical Chemist at Bellevue Hospital, NYC, he has enjoyed twenty years of the good life; gardening; amateur wine and beer making; stained glass 
 MATZ--Benjamin, 1913-2007, former Manager of Technical Information for the Bulova Watch Company, is author of ''The History and Development of the Quartz Watch''. A Certified Master Watchmaker, he was awarded the title of ''Fellow'' by the American Watchmakers - Clockmakers Institute in 200
 McBRIDE--Robert Gene, born December 30, 1931 in Clarkson, MS, died peacefully in his sleep, February 8, of natural causes. He was 75. Bob served in the US Air Force and worked as a journalist, filmmaker, and TV producer. Bob was nominated for an Oscar in 1970 for ''The Gifts''. Bob had an i
 MEADE--James, WWII veteran, age 83, of Dauphin Island, AL, and summer resident of Deer Isle, ME, died February 26, 2007, of cancer. He grew up in King City, MO, received his art and academic degrees in NYC, and is best remembered as an artist, educator, and leader in the art community in bo
 MIGGINS--James E., of Boca Raton, FL passed away on Monday, March 5, 2007 in Boca Raton. Mr. Miggins was a graduate of Power Memorial Academy, New York, NY in 1940, Iona College in New Rochelle, NY in 1968, and University of Miami School of Law in 1968. He proudly served his country during 
 MOSS--Perry, 81, of Boynton Beach, Florida died March 3, 2007. Husband of Linda. Loving father of Robin, Matthew and Michael. Brother of Bob. Devoted stepfather of Gabby and son-in-law Don. Adoring grandfather of Sean, Miles, Ari and MaryQuinn. Beloved uncle of Samantha. He lived life his w
 RODMAN--Leroy E., died on March 9th, 2007. Beloved husband of Toby C., loving father of John S. and Lawrence B. Rodman. Cherished grandfather of Lindsay, Bryan, Tara, Arielle and Max. Graveside service Sunday March 11, 12 noon at Union Fields Cemetery. $(6$)RODMAN--Leroy. The Office
 SCHUUR--Robert G., of New York, NY, died on March 3, 2007, surrounded by his family. Born in Kalamazoo, MI, Bob was a graduate of the University of Michigan Law School and a veteran of the United States Navy. A New Yorker for over 50 years, Bob was a partner at Reid & Priest and one of the 
 LIEBERBAUM--Sheldon. Rest in peace dear friend. We will miss you and cherish all our memories. We love you. Lesley and Mel $(6$)LIEBERBAUM--Sheldon, on March 7, 2007. Husband of Carol. Father of Suzie and Jonny. Pappa Shelly to Rachel, David, Kyle, Matthew and Eric. Brother of Micha
 MINDLIN--Michael. 3/11/23 -3/7/04 Lovingly remembered and greatly missed by all who knew and loved him. Freda       
 SACHAR--Irving, 15 years. Remembering his kindness and generosity. Randi and Michael, his beloved children.       
 CADMAN--Larry. The One Club mourns the passing of Larry Cadman, esteemed copywriter and former member of the Board of Directors of The One Club for Art and Copy. Larry died in New York on February 19, 2007 after a brave battle with lung cancer. Born in 1942 in Coldwater, Michigan, Larry gra
 KASINITZ--Julius On March 10, 2007 at age 79. Husband of Margaret Kasinitz of 50 years, father of Philip and Barry Kasinitz. Born in Brooklyn, he was the former CEO of Time Square stores and former president of Almay stores and Two Guys. Prior to that he was for many years Vice President of
 MINDLIN--Michael. 3/11/23 -3/7/04 Lovingly remembered and greatly missed by all who knew and loved him. Freda       
 Vice Adm. Joseph Metcalf III, who in October 1983 was given less than two days to plan and start the controversial invasion of the Caribbean island of Grenada after President Ronald Reagan issued orders to overturn a Marxist coup, died on March 2 at his home in Washington. He was 79.       
 CITRON--Sherman. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and member, Sherman Citron. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family and friends Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 McGLONE--Donald (Duke), after a courageous battle with emphysema, passed away March 10th, at age 72. Born and raised in Manhattan's Hell's Kitchen community and a Staten Islander for more than five decades. Survived by wife of 45 years, Bernadette; son Danny; daughter Susan and son-inlaw Ha
 MIRZA--Muzzafar ''Muzzi''. We mourn the loss of our founder, partner and dear friend, Muzzi Mirza. Muzzi was endlessly creative, constantly energized, and a problem solver who always found the way through the most convoluted maze and taught us how to have fun doing it. Muzzi's remarkable wa
 ROBBINS--George. November 22, 1921-March 11, 2007. Loving husband, brother, and son. A gentle man beloved by all in his family.       
 SCHEMAN--Martin. The Board of Directors and Membership of Glen Head Country Club announce with profound sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member, past President and Board Member, Martin Scheman. Our deepest sympathy extends to the bereaved family. Jeffrey Weingarten, President    
 STEIN--Irwin L., on March 12, 2007 at age 83. Beloved husband of Claire of 62 years, devoted father of David (Karen) and Roni (David). Cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Richard (Pamela), Deborah and Andrew (Jaclyn) and great-grandfather of Mara. A kind and gentle man. 60 year member of the 
 STEITZ--Jack, 82, of Manhattan, died peacefully March 9. Proud son of the late John J. Jr. and husband of the late Kitty Montaner, Jack was a decorated World War II veteran who lived in New York City his entire life. A kind and generous man, he will be missed by those he touched. He is surv
 Ernie Ladd, a massive defensive tackle turned wrestler who was the only man elected to the American Football League Hall of Fame and the World Wrestling Entertainment Hall of Fame, died Saturday at his home in Franklin, La. He was 68. The cause was colon cancer, which had spread to 
 John Thow, a prolific composer of chamber, symphonic and stage works and a professor at the University of California at Berkeley, died on March 4. He was 57. His death was announced by Diana Thow, his daughter, who said the cause was a chronic illness. Mr. Thow's music combi
 ALPERT--Warren. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of Warren Alpert, a former member of our Board of Overseers. Mr. Alpert demonstrated his philanthropic vision and commitment to medical education at Einstein by establishing an
 GLICKMAN--Richard, loving uncle and brother-in-law, trusted business partner. We will miss your warm smile, intellectual curiosity and deep store of knowledge. We are so happy you got to meet Bella Grace but so sad she won't get to know you. Going to the movies will never be the same. Our h
 LEFKOWITZ--Howard N. The attorneys and staff of Proskauer Rose, LLP, mourn the passing of Howard N. Lefkowitz, a senior partner in Proskauer's Corporate Department. We have lost not only a colleague and a friend but also a lawyer's lawyer who was known for his scholarship and pioneering spi
 LOFFREDO--Rudolph, on March 12, 2007. Born in the Bronx on November 27, 1923. Married the former Catherine Florio in 1949 and shared devoted love until her death in 1995. Survived by his children Susan, Stephen, and Sandie and by his beloved grandchildren Gina, Benjamin, Eliza, Giuliette, a
 McGLONE--Donald (Duke), after a courageous battle with emphysema, passed away March 10th, at age 72. Born and raised in Manhattan's Hell's Kitchen community and a Staten Islander for more than five decades. Survived by wife of 45 years, Bernadette; son Danny; daughter Susan and son-inlaw Ha
 MCHUGH--James J., of Westport, Connecticut, died March 7, 2007. He is survived by his wife, Marie; his children John, James, Anne, Peter, and Paul; his grandchildren Sarah, David, Jane, Sam, Kate, Peter, and Marie. A private memorial service is planned.       
 MINUCCI--Ulpio, 89, resident of Los Angeles, California, passed away March 9, 2007, at his home in Brentwood. Born in Italy, he is survived by his wife of 55 years, Catherine Minucci, also of Brentwood, his daughter Nina Minucci of Marlborough, New Hampshire, and his son Chieli Minucci of F
 MIRZA--Muzzafar ''Muzzi''. We mourn the loss of our founder, partner and dear friend, Muzzi Mirza. Muzzi was endlessly creative, constantly energized, and a problem solver who always found the way through the most convoluted maze and taught us how to have fun doing it. Muzzi's remarkable wa
 SPIRA--Bernard. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society mourn the loss of Bernard Spira of Los Angeles. Mr. Spira was a beloved friend and Technion Guardian, representing the highest level of support of the Technion. His ardent support of ATS endeavors in Southern Cal
 STEITZ--Jack, 82, of Manhattan, died peacefully March 9. Proud son of the late John J. Jr. and husband of the late Kitty Montaner, Jack was a decorated World War II veteran who lived in New York City his entire life. A kind and generous man, he will be missed by those he touched. He is surv
 F. Clark Howell, credited with transforming the study of human origins from just ''stones and bones'' to a broader discipline drawing on biology, ecology, geology and primatology, died on Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 81. The death was announced yesterday by the Un
 The Venerable Maha Ghosananda, a Buddhist monk who led the rebuilding of his religion in Cambodia, calling for peace and reconciliation after the overthrow of the Khmer Rouge in 1979, died Monday in Northampton, Mass. He was in his late 70s and lived in Providence, R.I., and Leverett, Mass.
 BROWNE--Peter Carroll, a gentleman and valiant fighter, age 82, of Tupper Lake, NY and formerly of Lawrence, NY, died Sunday, March 4, 2007 at his home, surrounded by family. Mr. Browne was Commodore Emeritus of the Cedarhurst Yacht Club, Lawrence, NY. He is survived by his wife of 60 years
 EDELMAN--Barry, 41, of Englewood, NJ, on March 12, 2007. Survived by his partner Tony Fuccillo, sons Zachary, Alex, and their mother Michelle (David) Ramirez, parents Arnold and Myrna, sister Susan, and Karen, and niece Jenna.       
 FRANKS--Harold H. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our long time member, Harold H. Franks, beloved husband of the late Hilda Franks, and father of Toby Kronengold and the late Marjorie Kronengold and the late Joan Franks Williams. Our deepest sympathy is extended to all his de
 LANDAU--Robert. On March 9, 2007, age 52. Beloved husband of Kristin, devoted father to Melissa and Jessie and loving son of Eve and the late Edward Landau. His humor, generosity, intelligence and warmth will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Memorial gathering will be held on Saturday
 MCHUGH--James J., of Westport, Connecticut, died March 7, 2007. He is survived by his wife, Marie; his children John, James, Anne, Peter, and Paul; his grandchildren Sarah, David, Jane, Sam, Kate, Peter, and Marie. A private memorial service is planned.       
 MIRZA--Muzzafar ''Muzzi'', beloved father, husband, son and best friend to so many people, passed away at home in Greenwich, CT, after a courageous battle with cancer, on Saturday, March 10, 2007. Muzzi was born in Lahore, Pakistan in 1958 and moved to the US in 1976. Muzzi is survived by h
 ROWE--William, 87, of Convent Station, NJ, passed away at home, Tuesday, March 13, 2007. He was surrounded by family. Bill is survived by his beloved wife Eileen, his two sons Mark and Larry, their wives Cindy and Wendy, and four adored grandchildren, Sari, Josh, Misha and Arielle.       
 JORDAN ARANA--Felipe. Died March 7th, 2007. Your good friends who loved you and were your family, Herman, Aurora and Julio and the two girls that were the love of your life, Lucy and Roxy, and the members of Dueto Salon, will miss you, but are certain that God will keep you in his glory. Wa
 Antonio Ortiz Mena, who as Mexico's finance minister in the 1960s was the architect of a period of remarkable growth known as the ''Mexican miracle,'' died on Monday. He was 99. According to news reports, he died at a hospital in Mexico City where he was recuperating from a fall at 
 Bowie Kuhn, the commissioner of baseball during a tumultuous 15-year period when the game experienced dramatic growth accompanied by unprecedented labor strife, died yesterday at a hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. Kuhn, who lived in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., was 80. The cause was compl
 BARRIE--Jeffrey E. Jeff lost his life on March 8 when the taxi he was taking from the airport to his Moscow home lost control. Born in Baltimore, Maryland on January 6th, 1941. He is survived by his family; his mother, Mickey, brother Andy, his sons Marc and Brian, their mother, Fran, their
 KRONES--Robert, age 82, on March 13, 2007. Wonderful brother to Ed Krones and the late Budd Krones, beloved uncle to Jerilyn Cormier, Kip Krones, Mark Krones and Leah Becker. A man with many friends. A generous man who gave of himself to all around him. Funeral service Tuesday March 20, at 
 ROWLAND--Herb. Our dear friend, Herb Rowland was the quintessential gentleman. His integrity, intelligence, and humor were among his outstanding qualities and we cherish the memories we have of our long and wonderful friendship. Our love goes to Patty and his children and his grandchildren.
 Eustace Lycett, whose work helping to create special effects for major Disney productions -- including characters in ''Mary Poppins'' who walk on smoke, and seemingly empty suits of medieval armor engaged in combat in ''Bedknobs and Broomsticks'' -- earned him a share in two Academy Awards,
 Marc Torsilieri, who looked like a ginger-bearded lumberjack and played the part in splendid fashion by annually felling the Christmas tree for Rockefeller Center, died on March 12 in Somerville, N.J. He was 48, a little over half the age of most of the Norway spruces he helped find, transp
 BRAUN--Joseph L., on March 16, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Lillian, loving father of Jack and Laurence, fatherin-law of Pam and Ariela, devoted grandfather of Andrew, Carolyn, Jeffrey and Randi, great-grandfather of Emily, Zachary, Alex and Noah. He will be greatly missed. Private ser
 HEINZE--Frank J. 70, longterm resident of Ramsey, NJ and Westhampton Beach, NY died on March 15, 2007. He was born in Bronxville, NY in 1936, was educated at Iona Prep, the University of Notre Dame (class of 1958) as a chemical engineer, and Columbia University as a Master of Chemical Engin
 LEVINE--Howard J. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the passing of its long time member and extends its sympathy to the family. Paul Warhit, President Rabbi Evan Goodman $(6$)LEVINE--Howard. The partners and staff of Tannenbaum Helpern Syracuse & Hirschtritt are deep
 LIEBMAN--Alan Stevan, on March 16th, 2007. Beloved husband of Rosalie. Adored father of Georgia and Mariel. Cherished son of Mollie and the late Harold Uebman. Brother of Barry and his wife, Maryellen. Dear uncle. Service is Sunday March 18th, 11:45 am at ''The Riverside.'' 76th St and Amst
 REITER--Frederick, D.D.S. 84, of Fort Lee, NJ, on March 15, 2007. He was a Captain in the U.S. Army and Past President of the NY state Academy of General Dentistry (MAGD). Adored father of Raymond, Stewart (Andrea), and Linda (Jeff Chinman), cherished grandfather of Rachel, Alexandra, Caitl
 SURREY--Allen A., age 95, of Plantation, FL formerly of Riverdale, NY. Father of Sidney, his wife Roxana and daughter Isabel. Beloved grandfather of Steven, Elysa and Mara. Great-grandfather of Natasha, Liam, Allie, Jaden and Hailey. Services are Sunday, 11:30am at Robert Schoem's Menorah C
 ZASLAVSKY--Sam, on February 28, age 93, in Boston. A life-long New Yorker and activist for freedom and equality. Electrical engineer; mathematics teacher at Baruch College. Survived by sons Thomas and Alan and grandchildren Clara Zaslavsky Correia and David, Sarah, and Katherine Zaslavsky. 
 ROTHENBERG--Charles D., Senior Vice President of North Fork Bank, passed away on March 15, 2007. He is survived by his devoted wife of 41 years, Arline B. Rothenberg; his two loving children, Rob and Deborah (Robert); and his two grandchildren, Lauren Mollie and Michael Joseph. He will be d
 Richard S. Prather, a hugely popular mystery writer of the 1950s and '60s whose novels were known for their swift violence, loopy humor and astonishing number of characters with no clothes on, died on Feb. 14 at his home in Sedona, Ariz. He was 85. The cause was complications of res
 BEATTIE--Charles R. Jr., 77, of Hilton Head Island, SC, formerly of New York City died Wednesday at the Hilton Head Regional Medical Center. He was born on April 12, 1929 in New York City and was the son of the late Mildred Fahnestock Beattie and Charles Robert Beattie. He was a 1951 gradua
 BROWN--David A., ''Gaga'', 92, died peacefully on March 12. His life was devoted to family, art, and a just society. He leaves his wife Amy, his children Susan, of Los Angeles, Rick and Liz, of New York City, six grandchildren, two great-grandchildren, and a sister, Betty.       
 BUKIET--Belle. Congregation Gesher Shalom/JCC of Fort Lee expresses heartfelt condolences to our cherished and devoted member Al Bukiet on the loss of his beloved wife Belle. Our sympathy to the entire Bukiet family. ''Hamakom Y'nacheim...''       
 EDELMAN--Barry. His accomplishments and pleasures were many and wideranging: father, businessman, world traveler, and joyful fan of the fabulous, but his true genius was for loving kindness. He was greatly loved in return, and his sudden death leaves gaping holes in so many lives. Long may 
 FRANCO--Anthony, on March 16, 2007. The longterm resident of Mamaroneck, NY arrived in Chicago from Italy in 1963. His brilliance and passion gave him the strength and vision to learn English and start an incredible career that saw him from the mail room at First Chicago to being one of its
 GENOVESE--Thomas Leonardo, a resident of Hilton Head Island, SC for over 12 years, passed away Tuesday, February 20, 2007 at his home. Born February 28, 1936 in Flushing, NY; he was the son of Jean Lundari and Robert P. S. Genovese. He was a graduate of The University of Virginia and Fordha
 GINSBERG--Sidney, WWII Veteran, recipient of five bronze service stars, survivor of the D-Day Invasion, Bridge at Ramogan, Liberation of Dachau, witness to his brother Harold's death while serving together in the 9th division, succumbed at the age of 90 on March 16, 2007 to multiple medical
 GURFEIN--Jay J., passed peacefully in his sleep March 9, 2007. Our mighty oak has fallen, but his spirit lingers on. Jay enriched all who knew him, lovingly sharing his knowledge and wit. He had an elegant presence and great love of family, giving pleasure wherever he walked. Very charismat
 HEINZE--Frank J. 70, longterm resident of Ramsey, NJ and Westhampton Beach, NY died on March 15, 2007. He was born in Bronxville, NY in 1936, was educated at Iona Prep, the University of Notre Dame (class of 1958) as a chemical engineer, and Columbia University as a Master of Chemical Engin
 KRONES--Robert. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our good friend and Director Emeritus Robert ''Bob'' Krones. Bob began his Greenwich House affiliation as a member of the Music School Advisory Board on which he served tirelessly for 25 years. His dedication to the organization led t
 KUHN--Bowie K., age 80, former Commissioner of Baseball, died March 15th, 2007 of respiratory failure after a short illness at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, FL. Born in 1926 in Tacoma Park, Maryland, Kuhn graduated from Princeton University in 1948 after serving in the US Navy and th
 LEE--Francis Wilson, 79, of Needham, MA, on March 15, 2007. Father of Thomas H. Lee of Wayland, MA, Alexandra Lee of Arlington, MA, Katherine Lee and husband John G. Schiesser of Boxborough, MA, Elizabeth Lee of Westport, NY and Nicholas F. Lee and wife, Jane of Wilton, CT. Grandfather of N
 LEVINE--Howard J., died on Thursday, March 15, 2007. Beloved husband of Marilyn Kroll Levine for 60 years. Loving father to Sandra (Michael Tannenbaum), Susan (David Andrade), Marsha (Gary Goldstein). Adoring grandfather to Andrew, Wendy, Matthew, Allison, Carrie, Dana, Jessie and Samantha 
 LIEBMAN--Alan. Our beloved friend and neighbor, Alan Liebman, was the president of our co-op board for many years. Alan loved our community and worked with enormous energy on our behalf. It's hard to imagine our building without him. Our thoughts are with Rosalie, Georgia and Mariel. We sha
 MURRAY--Tucker, 64, of Key West, died March 9, 2007. He was President of Liberty Industrial Gases and Welding Supplies in Brooklyn, NY. Young at heart and in spirit, he lived his life with enthusiasm and a passionate commitment to travel, boating and new adventures. He will be dearly missed
 NOVEY--Joseph, 97, died peacefully on February 9, 2007. He was a graduate of St. John's University and Columbia University School of Social Work. He is survived by his children, Walter and Judy, and a granddaughter Dora. His wife, Marjorie Mayer, predeceased him. A man of uncommon intellect
 ORSECK--Jeffrey J., Attorney. Born March 6, 1947, passed away peacefully on March 15, 2007. Jeffrey Orseck spent his childhood in New York City and Harriman, NY, where his family owned several businesses including the legendary restaurant, Orseck Boys. He attended Georgetown University's Sc
 RAND--Sidney, M.D., 81 years old, after several years of illness, passed away on January 10, 2007. He was the beloved husband of Marcia and loving father to David, Jonathan, and Sara. He served in the U.S. Navy in WWII, then attended medical school in Switzerland. He practiced otolaryngolog
 RISHIN--Marvin P., 81, of Coconut Creek, Florida on March 16, 2007. He was a devoted husband to Edythe Werner, a loving father to Karen Abrahamson, Marilynn and Kenneth Hopman and Laurie Greenberg, a proud grandfather of Ember and Kevin Newell, Aileah and Joe Slepski and Victor Hopman. ''A 
 RUGOFF--Milton, 93, author, editor, and book reviewer, with a Ph.D. from Columbia, died peacefully in Westchester on February 17. His most notable publication, among many books, is on the historically significant Beecher family of 19th century America. His brilliance, kindness, sense of hum
 SHORE--Philip H., 66, passed away on Thursday morning. A native of New Jersey he practiced law for 38 years and started his own firm of Shore and Zahn. He was a member of NJ and Florida Bar Associations, the American Bar Association, the Middlesex County Bar Association, the American Bankru
 WASSERMAN--Bernard. He was a peaceful soul with a quiet strength. His death on February 23rd left his loving wife Marlene and two step children Daniel and Claudia Jaul, and Anna Hamer with a profound sense of loss. Bernie we love you.       
 ROTHENBERG--Charles D., Senior Vice President of North Fork Bank, passed away on March 15, 2007. He is survived by his devoted wife of 41 years, Arline B. Rothenberg; his two loving children, Rob and Deborah (Robert); and his two grandchildren, Lauren Mollie and Michael Joseph. He will be d
 SCHLESINGER--Arthur M., Jr., 89. Husband of Alexandra, father of Stephen, Katharine, Christina, Andrew, Robert and Peter; adoring grandfather of Hugh, Sarah and Chun. Professor and student of history, distinguished author, public servant, activist and incandescent personality, he will be gr
 SCHWEITZER--Dr. Daniel Lawrence, passed away peacefully at his home in Scarsdale on the evening of March 14th. He was an eclectic, loving, spirited man who will be greatly missed and who made a lasting impression on all those that knew him. He is survived by his daughter, Dina Schweitzer Le
 Jay Kennedy, who as editor in chief of King Features Syndicate revived ''Prince Valiant'' and introduced the popular newspaper comic strips ''Curtis,'' ''Mutts'' and ''Zits,'' died on Thursday in Costa Rica. He was 50 and lived in New York City and Orient Point, N.Y. He drowned in a
 GINSBERG--Jerry, died unexpectedly on March 17. Beloved husband of Claire (nee Jacobson), devoted father of Suzanne and Irv Seff, Elise and Richard Kestenbaum, Ian and Stephanie Ginsberg, loving grandfather of Andrea, Mark, Carla, Jonathan, Scott, Matthew, Alec, Wendy, and Reed. Funeral ser
 GINSBERG--Sidney, WWII Veteran, recipient of five bronze service stars, survivor of the D-Day Invasion, Bridge at Ramogan, Liberation of Dachau, witness to his brother Harold's death while serving together in the 9th division, succumbed at the age of 90 on March 16, 2007 to multiple medical
 LINTZ--Worth B., Dr., respected New York City physician and long time resident of Westchester, died peacefully on Saturday, March 17, at age 83. Dr. Lintz began practicing medicine in 1953, joining his father in private practice at his midtown office. He retired in 1991. He is survived by h
 TITLE--Marvin, Died on March 17. Beloved and adoring husband of Barbara. Cherished father of Jeffrey and Nancy. Doting grandfather to Ryan, Lila, Reid, Zachary and Tyler. Wonderful sonin-law to Sara Pecker. Loving father-in-law to Michele and Ken. Dear brother of the late Howard. Very speci
 SCHWEITZER--Dr. Daniel Lawrence, passed away peacefully at his home in Scarsdale on the evening of March 14th. He was an eclectic, loving, spirited man who will be greatly missed and who made a lasting impression on all those that knew him. He is survived by his daughter, Dina Schweitzer Le
 Stuart Rosenberg, a hard-working director of series television and theatrical films who captured the simmering anti-authoritarianism of the late 1960s in the widely popular Paul Newman prison drama ''Cool Hand Luke,'' died on Thursday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79. 
 John W. Backus, who assembled and led the I.B.M. team that created Fortran, the first widely used programming language, which helped open the door to modern computing, died on Saturday at his home in Ashland, Ore. He was 82. His daughter Karen Backus announced the death, saying the 
 BAUER--Stephen Bruce, of Pound Ridge, NY and Naples, FL, born November 5, 1941, died suddenly on March 18, 2007. He was 65 years young. Steve was the beloved son of the late Shirley and David Bauer; loving husband of Linda, adored father of Diane and Eric Orlinsky, Lauren and Daniel Zinman,
 CHAYKIN--Irving. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member Irving Chaykin. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence Glass       
 ESKELL--Barrett Bertram, 84, of Huntington, L.I. on March 16, 2007. Born in New York City. Retired from Citibank in New York as a Vice President. Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Hobart College in Geneva, NY and Veteran of the Army Air Corps in WWII with the 8th Air Force/436th Fighter Squadron. 
 GILE--David Emery, died peacefully at home in Greenwich, CT on Thursday, March 15, 2007. Mr. Gile was born in Cambridge, MA on June 7, 1922 and was the youngest child of Clement and Anne Gile. He graduated from Phillips Andover Academy in 1940 and Yale University in 1944. At Yale he sang in
 GINSBERG--Jerry. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member Jerry Ginsberg. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence Glass       
 KENNEDY--Jay, 50, beloved husband of Sarah Jewler, friend to many. Vigilant, passionate, kind, Jay was a vibrant defender of the integrity of the cartoon and culture. His friends, particularly in New York and the North Fork, will miss him deeply.       
 MORRISON--John J., of Sarasota, Florida and Madison, NJ on Saturday, March 17, 2007 after a short illness. He was 74 years old. Born in Staten Island, Mr. Morrison lived in Summit for 30 years, before moving to Florida and Madison in 2000. He oversaw the International Treasury Department at
 TITLE--Marvin. Action to Cure Kidney Cancer mourns the loss of our board member and offers our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Barbara and his entire family.       
 WILKINS--Dr. Arthur H., died March 14, in Manhattan at age 88. He graduated from Columbia Grammar, Yale University, and received his Ph.D in Sociology from University of Chicago. After teaching at Brown, Dr. Wilkins became Director of Market Research at Papert Koenig Lois and Grey Advertisi
 Raymond D. Nasher, a real-estate developer and banker who, along with his wife, Patsy, amassed one of the world's best collections of Modern and contemporary sculpture and built a lavish public home for it in downtown Dallas, died on Friday in Dallas. He was 85. Mr. Nasher had becom
 Ernst Haefliger, a Swiss tenor who was most renowned as an interpreter of German art song and oratorio roles, died on Saturday in Davos, Switzerland, where he maintained a second home. He was 87 and lived in Vienna. Charlotte Schroeder, his American manager, announced his death.    
 Jim Cronin, a self-trained zoologist who built a wildlife park on a deserted pig farm in southern England, then roamed the world with his wife to rescue illegally captured chimpanzees, orangutans and other primates, died Saturday in Manhattan. Mr. Cronin, who lived at the wildlife park, Mon
 FENG--Shao Chang, on March 17, 2007, of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved husband of Kuo Chen, loving father of Arleen and Clarence (Dorothee), grandfather to Christine and Carolina, also survived by his brother Chen Chang. Uncle to Harry, Judy and Ling, and other nieces and nephews in Canada and C
 FLEISCHER--Gilbert, on March 20th, 2007. Beloved husband of Terry. Loved by many, and he will be dearly missed. Funeral service Friday, 11am at Beth Moses Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY.       
 GILBRIDE--John T., 90, the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Todd Shipyards Corporation, a longtime resident of Greenwich, CT, and recently of Stamford, passed away at Stamford Hospital on March 17, 2007. Mr. Gilbride was elected as Director of Todd in 1951, President of the Co
 GILE--David Emery, died peacefully at home in Greenwich, CT on Thursday, March 15, 2007. Mr. Gile was born in Cambridge, MA on June 7, 1922 and was the youngest child of Clement and Anne Gile. He graduated from Phillips Andover Academy in 1940 and Yale University in 1944. At Yale he sang in
 GRUBMAN--Hy. Our best friend. We had the best times together. He will be missed forever. Bobbie and Sidney Greenfield       
 LEEDS--Carl L. Died on Monday March 12, 2007 of pneumonia. He will be missed by his partner of 44 years Bob Abramson.       
 LIEBMAN--Alan S. With deep affection we remember our dear friend whose larger than life personality will remain with us forever. He shared his wisdom, enthusiasm and love for us over our families' lifetimes. His spirit will live within us all. Shirley, Jack, Leigh and Romy Silver $(
 SCHWARTZ--Dr. Alfred H., D.D.S., Died March 20th, after a long illness, at age 88. Beloved husband, family member, colleague and friend. Associate professor of oral and maxillofacial surgery at NYU College of Dentistry. Member of numerous professional organizations. He was recognized for 35
 SHILTON--Leon Gustave, age 63, of Rumson, NJ, died at his home on Sunday, March 18, 2007. Dr. Shilton was a Professor of Finance at Fordham University. Loving husband of Robertamarie Kiley; adored father of Sean, Moriah, Alycia, Lillith, and Sonjelle; cherished grandfather of Dylan Lloyd; b
 WEHLE--L. Brandeis Jr., 88, of Lloyd Harbor, L.I., NY, died March 17th, of multiple myeloma. Survived by Anne, his wife of 61 years; children, Nancy Aboff, Susan, Jonathan and Robert; grandchildren Matthew, Susannah and Gareth; and step-grandchildren Gage and Justin. Alumnus of Lincoln Scho
 ZEBROWSKI--Kenneth P. With great sorrow, the New York State Assembly mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Assembly Member Ken Zebrowski. Speaker Sheldon Silver and the members of the New York State Assembly offer our sympathy and our prayers to the Zebrowski family, to Assembly M
 B. Franklin Kahn, one of the first developers to recognize that real estate investments could trade much like mutual funds, died March 8 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart and kidney failure, said a daughter, Laurie Kahn-Leavitt. Almost
 Bishop G. E. Patterson, the presiding bishop of the Church of God in Christ, the nation's largest African-American Pentecostal denomination, died Tuesday in Memphis. He was 67 and lived in Memphis, where the church has its headquarters. The cause was heart failure, his nephew Milton
 Calvert G. DeForest, the dweebish man who gained cult status on David Letterman's late-night shows as the comic figure Larry (Bud) Melman precisely because he was not funny, died Monday in Babylon, Long Island. He was 85. He suffered from a long illness, according to a statement by 
 AARON--George, 81, died March 20th, residence Sarasota, formerly Tenafly. Survived by his loving wife Diana and sister Shirley Aaron of New York City. In lieu of flowers a contribution in his name to a charity of your choice.       
 BEROLATTI--Louis Joseph, on March 20, 2007, of New Rochelle, NY. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Ann, devoted father of Michael and Mary Beth, grandfather of Ryan and Kyle Bowen. Alumnus of the University of Illinois and the University of Chicago. He served as First Lieutenant in the USMC befo
 BRONFMAN--Naum. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff extend our deepest condolences to Board Member, Yefim Bronfman, on the death of his father. We are indebted to Naum and his wife Polina for nurturing the talent of their musician children 
 HARRIS--Philip E., passed from this life on March 21st at the age of 91. He was a community leader and entrepreneur who lived in Scranton, PA, and Miami Beach, FL. He will be remembered for his courage in the face of adversity, his extraordinary resilience and a tremendous capacity to embra
 HOUK--Bruce Victor, writer and traveler, 68, died January 11, 2007, in Queens, NY, due to a heart attack. Born March 16, 1938, to Rudy J. Houk and Sally Homer. Attended Bard College, Columbia Graduate School and graduated Hunter in 2000. He lived as he wanted; the last ten years he was an o
 LIEBMAN--Alan S. With deep affection we remember our dear friend whose larger than life personality will remain with us forever. He shared his wisdom, enthusiasm and love for us over our families' lifetimes. His spirit will live within us all. Shirley, Jack, Leigh and Romy Silver       
 SHIRRELL--Robert Donald, of Millbrook died of lung cancer on March 19, at age 86 with his family by his side. A WWII veteran, he graduated from the University of Michigan in 1948. Mr. Shirrell was with General Electric for 35 years. He is survived by daughters Ann (Walter) Rand of Pawling a
 SLADE--Terry, 97, of New York City, on March 20, 2007. Designer of custom made furniture. Loving father of his son Michael (Cookie), daughter Doren (Lisa). Adored grandfather of Daphne (Dave), David (Jenny), Danielle (Rikesh). Proud greatgrandfather of Kira, Acadia, and Felix. Services are 
 WEHLE--L. Brandeis Jr., 88, of Lloyd Harbor, L.I., NY, died March 17th, of multiple myeloma. Survived by Anne, his wife of 61 years; children, Nancy Aboff, Susan, Jonathan and Robert; grandchildren Matthew, Susannah and Gareth; and step-grandchildren Gage and Justin. Alumnus of Lincoln Scho
 WHITE--Clyde Small, of Burlington, NC, passed away on March 19, 2007. A graduate of College of Charleston, and an MBA graduate of Elon University, he was editor and publisher with Carolina Biological Supply Company. A memorial service will be held at Powerline Church of the Nazarene, 701 Ma
 ZEBROWSKI--Kenneth. The faculty and staff of the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research mourn the loss of our dear friend Assemblyman Kenneth Zebrowski. We will miss his optimism, his passion and his commitment to improving the lives of others. We send our sympathy to Linda and 
 Alec Wyton, an English-born organist, composer and teacher who brought contemporary influence to American church music over decades, two of them as organist and choirmaster at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in Manhattan, died on Sunday in Danbury, Conn. He was 85. His d
 Dwight R. Chamberlain, a naturalist who studied the language of crows and ravens and helped to explain the intricate vocal cues they use in fighting, feeding and social interactions, died on March 10 at his home in Leota, Ind. He was 68. The cause was complications after a stroke, h
 Dr. Harold I. Lief, a leading sex therapist who was an early advocate of having medical schools put greater emphasis on sex education in training doctors, died on March 15 at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. In 19
 BRONFMAN--Naum. The loss of husband, father and grandfather Naum Bronfman is mourned by his loving family members Polina, Elizabeth, Yefim, Yael, Daniel and many other relatives and friends both in the United States and Israel. Mr. Bronfman died at the age of 95 on Tuesday morning, March 20
 CHAYKIN--Irving. The Baruch College community is deeply saddened at the passing of Irving Chaykin, 1932, Professor Emeritus in the Stan Ross Department of Accountancy, on March 18. Irving Chaykin arrived at Baruch in 1929 and never left us. He was a beloved faculty member for more than 35 y
 COLLIER--Daniel. The members of the Board of Directors and the Officers of Park Hill Tenants Corporation mourn the passing of their colleague, friend and neighbor. His unstinting service to the Board of Directors and his neighbors, his kindness and unfailing courtesy earned him the respect 
 LEVINE--Barry J. On March 21, 2007, after a two-year battle with multiple myeloma. Born on June 6, 1945, Mr. Levine graduated from Brooklyn Law School in 1970. After a stint with the Nassau County District Attorneys Office, he established a private law practice and represented the Garden Ci
 NATHANSON--Irwin. We record with sorrow the passing of our esteemed member of over 55 years, Irwin Nathanson. We send our sincere condolences to his wife Sally, and the entire family in their time of sorrow. His many years of friendship and kindness will be remembered. Philip Laskawy, Presi
 NATHANSON--Irwin B., of Palm Beach Gardens, FL and Purchase, NY died suddenly on March 20th, 2007 at age 85. Born in Pittsburgh. He graduated from George Washington University. His long and successful business career included working for Monsanto and senior executive positions for United Me
 PATTERSON--Glenn Scott, 69, of Manhattan, died peacefully after a long illness on March 1, 2007, (retired NYC Parks Department and Local 147-Sandhogs). Son of the late Mary Crawford Patterson and Anslow Patterson; survived by cousins in Canada and the US. His charm and loyalty gained him th
 RONSON--Howard P., the International Chairman of the HRO Group, passed away surrounded by family and friends in Monaco on March 21, 2007. Born in London, England on May 28, 1943, Mr. Ronson graduated from Carmel College in England. In 1962, he joined his family's residential and commercial 
 SLADE--Terry, Shareholders and previous residents of 465 West End Avenue have enjoyed Terry Slade's cheerful presence for over 60 years, but now are deeply saddened by his passing on March 20. We are indebted to him for his assistance in designing our lobby, and to his beloved wife, Joan, w
 SOKOLOW - Joseph. The Yeshiva University family is grieved at the passing of a distinguished alumnus, a highly regarded business professional, and Jewish communal leader who served as President of the Yeshiva College Alumni for many years. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his beloved w
 STAVROPOULOS--Theo, artist and teacher, died Sunday, March 11, 2007 at his home on Chebeague Island, Maine. He was born in Athens, Greece, studied art at the Ecoles des Beaux Arts in Paris, France and at Yale with Josef Albers. For over 20 years, he taught at Lehman College in the Bronx. He
 WHITE--Clyde Small, of Burlington, NC, passed away on March 19, 2007. A graduate of College of Charleston, and an MBA graduate of Elon University, he was editor and publisher with Carolina Biological Supply Company. A memorial service will be held at Powerline Church of the Nazarene, 701 Ma
 ZEBROWSKI--Kenneth. The faculty and staff of the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research mourn the loss of our dear friend Assemblyman Kenneth Zebrowski. We will miss his optimism, his passion and his commitment to improving the lives of others. We send our sympathy to Linda and 
 Herman Stein, a little-known craftsman who, unseen but very much heard, helped terrify the audiences of a spate of classic horror and science-fiction films, died on March 15 at his home in Los Angeles. Mr. Stein, a former staff composer at the Universal studio in Hollywood, was 91. 
 Milton Wexler, a psychoanalyst who applied his talent for conducting group therapy to brainstorming sessions for scientists working on the hereditary disease that ravaged his wife's family, died on March 16 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 98. The cause was complications o
 AUERBACH--John, of Roslyn Heights, LI, NY, a leader of the American bicycle industry, died at 96 on March 21, 2007. He is survived by Isabelle, his wife of 68 years, daughter, Joan, of New York City, son, Robert, of Auckland, New Zealand, and grandsons, Jason and Shane. John Auerbach served
 BENIGNO--Edward P., of White Plains, died March 22, 2007. He was 55 years old. Ed was Senior Vice President of Sales for over 20 years with The Merrill Corporation in New York City. He is survived by his loving son, wife and mother. Calling hours will be at Flynn Memorial Home, 1652 Central
 CASEY--Richard Conway, honorable March 22, 2007, beloved father of Richard and his wife Michelle, cherished grandfather of Allison. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. A graduate of Holy Cross and Georgetown Law School who later served as a federal judge for the Southern
 COLLIER--Daniel. We mourn the loss of a good friend and dedicated Board Member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. The Officers, Directors and Staff of Brown Harris Stevens Management, LLC Alan Kersner, COO       
 LACOMBE--Edward J., of Hillsdale, NJ, died peacefully, at home, surrounded by his family on March 23, 2007. Born September 5, 1916 in Montmagny, Quebec, became a naturalized US citizen at the age of 21. Beloved husband of 60 years to his wife Mary. Cherished father to Katherine, Peter, Paul
 MILES--Manuel. We offer condolences to Vicki and Ron Weiner on the passing of Vicki's father, Manuel Miles, who died Wednesday, March 21. He is survived by his beloved wife Ruth, adoring daughters Vicki and Elaine Miles Resner, and loving grandchildren Jennie (Jeremiah), Maureen, Michelle (
 GERMAIN--Lawrence. Memories are precious. As time travels on. When you long for a face, and the smile that is gone. It seems like only yesterday, you took me by the hand and there you placed a special ring. A golden wedding band. Together on life's journey. We shared happiness and tears. An
 Walter J. Turnbull, who founded the Boys Choir of Harlem, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was cancer, said his brother Horace, the choir's former executive vice president. From modest beginnings in the basement of a church on 123rd Str
 Howard P. Ronson, a British real estate developer who in the 1980s became one of the most prolific builders of office space in Manhattan, died Wednesday near his home in Monaco. He was 63. The cause was complications of cancer, said Larry Wyman, a principal in the HRO Group, where M
 ANTMAN--Max. On March 15, 2007, with his loved ones at his side. Beloved husband, father, stepfather, grandfather and friend. All who knew him know he was a special man. He will be greatly missed. Donations to the American Cancer Society or Calvary Hospital, Bronx, NY would be appreciated. 
 AUERBACH--John, of Roslyn Heights, LI, NY, a leader of the American bicycle industry, died at 96 on March 21, 2007. He is survived by Isabelle, his wife of 68 years, daughter, Joan, of New York City, son, Robert, of Auckland, New Zealand, and grandsons, Jason and Shane. John Auerbach served
 BERGER--Robert S., Captain USNR Retired, passed away Monday, March 19, 2007 at the age of 90. He was born in New York on February 13, 1917. Bob was a resident of Los Angeles for the past 41 years. He was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania (1936), Columbia University (1939) and Har
 BOSE--Arun. 73. Bengali artist and art professor at Lehman College for 35 years, died at his home in North Salem, NY on February 7, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Araceli and a daughter, Rebecca. He will be missed. A painter and a master printmaker, his wide-ranging body o
 CASEY--Richard Conway. Your warmth, wit and wisdom were evident in everything you did. We hold dear your friendship and loyalty. ''Now cracks a noble heart. Goodnight, sweet prince and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest''. The S. Hazard Gillespie Association $(6$)CASEY--Richard
 CONLIN--Joseph H., 79, New York impresario, died on Monday, March 5, 2007, in West Palm Beach, FL. A kindly, imposing man of great wit, charm, and generosity -and an excellent ballroom dancer who possessed an encyclopedic knowledge of opera and piano repertoire -he suffered an aneurism behi
 FIELDSTEEL--Edmund S., of Roslyn Heights, NY died on March 23, 2007 in Mount Sinai Hospital, NY. He was the president of EMR Lighting Co., Hauppauge, NY, prior he was an executive with Kenroy Lighting, Farmingdale, NY. He was a graduate of NYU with a degree in business and a WWII navy veter
 FUDIM--Murray. My beloved Murray. Longtime companion, mentor, best friend died peacefully in my home on March 19th. I will miss your zest for life, twinkle in your eyes, love of music and good conversation, and all that you brought to my life. A special thanks to nurse's aides, Venice, Yvet
 GRAY--Timothy, lyricist/ playwright/director. Born in Chicago, IL. September 5, 1927 died March 17, 2007 in Sarasota, FL. Wrote and worked on Broadway and in London. Credits include: Make A Wish, Love From Judy and High Spirits with Hugh Martin. Musical Revues Welcome Darling (starring Tall
 JUDSON--Alan, former members of the City Athletic Club mourn the loss of a good friend. He will be missed. Norman Jacobson       
 KARDON--Robert (Bob), of Manhattan, formerly of Philadelphia, retired CEO of Kardon Industries, Inc., died in New York on March 23, 2007 of heart failure at the age of 85. Son of the late Morris and Sophie (Winkleman) and brother of the late Eugene and Lester Kardon. He leaves his wife of 5
 KIRCHMAN--Kenneth P. Kenneth Kirchman, a prominent Orlando businessman and founder of Kirchman Corporation, died at his home in Winter Park on Tuesday, March 13. He was 72. Mr. Kirchman founded Kirchman Corporation, a privately held banking software innovator, in 1968 and built the company 
 KRAKOFF--Robert. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dearest friend. You were a prince among men, a devoted husband, loving father, adored grandfather and a most cherished friend. You will be in our hearts forever. Our thoughts and prayers are with Sandy and all the family. Marge Russ
 LAZAROW--Al, on March 20, 2007, at 90 years of age. Loving husband for 66 years of Regina; brother of Sidney; father of Madeleine, Marty, and Richard; grandfather of Erica, Michelle and Andrew. Active in B'nai B'rith, Uja, Israel bonds and JCC of West Hempstead. Loved by all the hearts he t
 LIEF--Harold I., M.D. The Trustees, Officers and Members of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis and Dynamic Psychiatry express profound sorrow for the loss on March 15, 2007 of Dr. Harold Lief, a Past President of the Academy. We express our condolences to his family. Sherry P. Katz-Bear
 MILES--Manuel. We offer condolences to Vicki and Ron Weiner on the passing of Vicki's father, Manuel Miles, who died Wednesday, March 21. He is survived by his beloved wife Ruth, adoring daughters Vicki and Elaine Miles Resner, and loving grandchildren Jennie (Jeremiah), Maureen, Michelle (
 OSTROW--Ira. We are deeply saddened to have lost such a dear friend. You were our first friend on Fisher Island and continued to be a very important part of our family's life. We will always remember you as a true Mensch and a genuine gentleman. Our sincere condolences to our beloved Marily
 PATTERSON--Glenn Scott, 69, of Manhattan, died peacefully after a long illness on March 1, 2007, (retired NYC Parks Department and Local 147-Sandhogs). Son of the late Mary Crawford Patterson and Anslow Patterson; survived by cousins in Canada and the US. His charm and loyalty gained him th
 PEDONE--Vito S. Colonel, beloved husband of Merrie L. Davis and the late Geraldine C. Pedone passed away Saturday, March 24, 2007. Co-pilot who led Normandy invasion, WWII. Assisted in development of NATO, appointed Chairman of Command and Control Committee for Joint Chiefs of Staff, briefe
 POEPPLEIN--Ronald F. Beloved friend and colleague. Ron graduated Brooklyn Law School in 1978 and immediately became a student of the law, an outstanding trial attorney, an accomplished legal writer and appellate attorney. He was a fellow of The American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers, one o
 PUNAK--Randy M., 53 of NYC died March 5, 2007 in Paris, France. Born in Milwaukee, graduated UWM with B.A. including studies at Alberts Ludwig Universitat in Freiburg, West Germany in German Literature. Enjoyed a career of 19 years as in International Flight Attendant with American Airlines
 PUTTERMAN--Harold, of Lake Worth, FL, passed away March 19, 2007. Devoted father of Karen (and Enrique) Campos, Lanee (and John) Phillips; beloved grandfather of Carmel, Sarah, Michael, Daniel, and Rachel; loving brother Frieda, Marsha, Sarah, and Sol, and the late Anna, Tillie, and Sam; hu
 REICH--Samuel, born July 3, 1913, passed away Sunday, March 18, 2007. He was a caring, loving husband to Ethel.       
 REIS--Harold Frank, of Washington, D.C., died on March 23, 2007 of cancer. Born in 1916 Bronx, New York, son of the late Bernard and Rose Reis, survived by Ruthanne, wife of 56 years, son Alan (Dana), New York, New York; daughters Kate Grogan (Kevin), Augusta, Georgia, and Deborah Kennedy (
 RONSON--Howard P. The Genesis Foundation, Jerusalem/ NY and the Genesis Center, Bet Shemesh mourn the loss of our Chairman of the Board, Mr. Howard P. Ronson. Devoted husband, father and brother. A visionary leader, passionate lover of Israel and dedicated patron of Jewish education. We ext
 WEXLER--Milton. We miss our beloved and unique father, Milton Wexler, who died prematurely at home on March 16, 2007, at the age of 98. A renaissance man, Wexler transformed every boundary he met, from helping launch the Human Genome Project to creating innovative approaches to doing psycho
 ZWEIFLER--Dr. Gerald. A bright light went out on March 17, 2007. Our dear friend, loving husband to Judith, beloved father to Michelle and Lauren. One of the truly great guys. Loved and respected by his friends at Boca West. We have great sadness in our hearts. May you rest in peace. May yo
 TRIEBWASSER--Charles, February 25th, 1930 to March 24, 1987. We love you, Chuck. From his family and many friends       
 Freddie Francis, a versatile British cinematographer whose talent for creating atmosphere won him two Oscars, died on March 17 in London. He was 89. He had suffered a stroke in December and never recovered, his family told British newspapers. Mr. Francis, who received Oscars
 John T. Gilbride, a former chairman and chief executive of the Todd Shipyards Corporation, once the largest independent shipbuilding company in the country, died on March 17 at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 90. The cause was lung disease, his son Frank said. Mr. Gilbrid
 BENANAV--Joshua Benanav, 84, of White Plains, NY, died Saturday, March 24, 2007. Born Joshua Szereny in Uzhorod, Czechoslovakia on November 18, 1922, he was the son of the late Bertha (Freiberg), who died in Auschwitz Concentration camp in 1944, and Bela Szereny, who died in Mathausen Conce
 CASEY--Richard Conway, March 22, 2007, beloved father of Richard and his wife Michelle, cherished grandfather of Allison. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. A graduate of Holy Cross and Georgetown Law School who later served as a federal judge for the Southern District 
 DORMAN--David, On March 23, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Frieda. Devoted father of Joan Sherer. Loving grandfather of Samantha and Derek, Mara and Marc, Val and Jodi. Cherished greatgrandfather of Pacey, Jack, Sydney, Ella and Hannah. Beloved friend of Ruth Golden Katz. A loving family
 FOX--Ralph, age 87. Passed away March 24, 2007. Born and raised in NY, NY. He lived in Monroe Township, NJ, for the last 15 years. Ralph is survived by his loving wife Dinah of 60 years, a daughter Stephanie Morris (Robert) of NY, NY; two sons, Daniel (Elaine) of Rockville, MD, and Lawrence
 GELBER--Joseph, on March 24, 2007. Devoted son of the late Bertha and Ben, beloved husband of Marge, adored brother of Sam and the late Sol, Mary Rosenberg and Sylvia Katz, dear brother-in-law, uncle, great-uncle and friend. His was a life well lived. He will be missed by all who knew him. 
 JUDSON--Alan, former members of the City Athletic Club mourn the loss of a good friend. He will be missed. Norman Jacobson       
 KARDON--Robert (Bob), of Manhattan, formerly of Philadelphia, retired CEO of Kardon Industries, Inc., died in New York on March 23, 2007 of heart failure at the age of 85. Son of the late Morris and Sophie (Winkleman) and brother of the late Eugene and Lester Kardon. He leaves his wife of 5
 KRAKOFF--Robert. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dearest friend. You were a prince among men, a devoted husband, loving father, adored grandfather and a most cherished friend. You will be in our hearts forever. Our thoughts and prayers are with Sandy and all the family. Marge Russ
 PUTTERMAN--Harold. We are very saddened as a family to have lost a loving, caring, and wonderful cousin, uncle, and friend. He will never be forgotten. Our love goes out to his daughters and grandchildren. To know him was to love him. Harold, Rita, Jamie, Cindy, and Gary       
 REIS--Harold Frank, of Washington, D.C., died on March 23, 2007 of cancer. Born in 1916 Bronx, New York, son of the late Bernard and Rose Reis, survived by Ruthanne, wife of 56 years, son Alan (Dana), New York, New York; daughters Kate Grogan (Kevin), Augusta, Georgia, and Deborah Kennedy (
 J. Kirk Osborn, a lawyer who gained national prominence defending one of three Duke University lacrosse players against a dancer's accusations of sexual assault last year, died Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Tania, said. Mr. Os
 Jerry Girard, a sports broadcaster for WPIX-TV in New York from 1974 to 1995, died Sunday in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 74. He died of esophageal cancer at Westchester Medical Center, his family said. Girard, originally Gerard Alfred Suglia, was born Aug. 6, 1932, in Chicago. He
 ALLEY--Frederick. Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) is deeply saddened by the passing of beloved colleague and friend Fred Alley. A former GNYHA Chairman and longtime President and CEO of The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Mr. Alley was a charismatic leader whose talent and kindness 
 CASEY--Richard Conway. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Richard Conway Casey, an Active member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith, IV, President Brian G. Andersson, Hist
 GELBER--Joseph. You'll be in our hearts forever. Margie, our thoughts are with you. Bunny and Teddy GELBER--Joseph. Guiseppe, your love of life and commitment to helping others is a legacy you leave for all of us to cherish. We will never forget all of our great times. Barbara and B
 KEESING--Gustaaf, D.D.S., of Rye, NY, passed away on March 25, 2007, surrounded by his wife and family. Born in Amsterdam, the Netherlands in 1913, 50-year resident of Scarsdale, NY, he received his dental degrees from both the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands, as well as the Univer
 LEWIN--Jacob, beloved husband of Bernice, loving father of Elizabeth Lewin-Arnoul and Judith Lewin; cherished grandfather of Lillian Arnoul and father-in-law of Keith Arnoul. He was a childhood Holocaust survivor and U.S. Army veteran. Services were Monday, March 26th at Bloomfield - Cooper
 NAPOLI--Ann. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Ann Napoli, mother of Daniel T. Napoli, fellow club member and member of the Board of Governors. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Dan, his wife, Robin and their entire family. David M. Silfen, President Har
 PARKER--Keith E., importer and seller of art works, passed away peacefully at Cabrini Hospice on March 20, after much suffering. He is survived by his partner of 20 years, Brian Richardson. He was born in Perth, Western Australia, to Ernest (deceased) and Peggy Parker and had six siblings, 
 Robert E. Petersen, who channeled his enduring California-boy fervor for fast cars with tailfins and chrome-plated engines into a string of successful magazines, including Hot Rod and Motor Trend, died Friday in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Petersen, who lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., was 80. 
 Axel G. Rosin, a former president of the Book-of-the-Month Club and later the head of the Scherman Foundation, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99. The death was confirmed by his daughter Karen Sollins. Mr. Rosin (pronounced Rose-EEN) was president of the Book
 Orin E. Atkins, who helped transform Ashland Oil from a regional oil refiner into a multinational energy conglomerate but whose 16-year tenure as chief executive was marred by improper business dealings, died on Friday in Dallas. He was 82. The cause was complications of pneumonia, 
 HEIM--Richard. A gentle giant who saw only the best in everyone. He will be missed by many. Marc & Jan       
 MAHONEY--Adrian D., 73, of New Canaan, CT died March 25, 2007. Born in NYC, NY. Survived by his beloved wife Kathleen Mahoney. Son of the late John T. Mahoney and Mary E. Mahoney. Survived by his children Sheila Flood, Regina Mahoney, Caroline Delaney, Elizabeth MahoneySantos and Stephen Ma
 ROSIN--Axel G. The Board and staff of the Scherman Foundation are deeply saddened by the death of our beloved chairman emeritus. A courageous man, leaving Nazi Germany and arriving in America in 1934, Axel Rosin went on to become the president of the Book-of-theMonth Club, founded by his fa
 SCHWARTZ--Philip K, 93, died March 26 in Coconut Creek, FL. Highly respected in the field of advertising law, he was considered one of the leading experts on the Robinson Patman Antitrust Act. A partner for over 50 years in the New York law firm Davis and Gilbert and a graduate of John's Ho
 WHITE--Lawrence (Larry), died on March 25, 2007. Born in Cohoes, NY, he was one of the pioneers of the early days of television broadcasting. He began his career at the Dumont Television Network. At CBS he was instrumental in developing the long running daytime programs, 'As the World Turns
 HENNINGSEN--Victor W. , Jr, Sound Shore Health System mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Victor W. Henningsen, Jr. Together with his family, Vic was a steadfast supporter of Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester and a devoted member of the Board of Governors, serving f
 HALPERN--Joel A. Twenty six years since your tragic fatal accident. Dad is by your side as he chose to be. We all miss you and love you. Mother and Family       
 Paul C. Lauterbur, who shared the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 2003 for developing magnetic resonance imaging into a way to look inside living organisms, died yesterday at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 77. The cause was kidney disease, said the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champ
 Marshall Rogers, a comic-book artist who made his name illustrating Batman at a significant period in 1977 and '78, was found dead by a family member on Saturday at his home in Fremont, Calif. He was 57. The cause has not been determined, said his sister, Suzanne R. Schmachtenberger
 Morton A. Kornreich, a former national chairman of the United Jewish Appeal and chairman of the UJA-Federation of New York, died Tuesday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 82 and lived in White Plains. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his son James said. From 1988 to 1990, Mr. Korn
 COLMAN--Abe, age 101. He was a retired professional wrestling champion. Funeral services will be held at Schwartz 718-263-7600.       
 DAMBRA--Lucian J. ''Lee'' 79, a devotee to the ideal of lifelong learning, passed away March 4, 2007 at ''Hospice by the Sea'' in Boca Raton, FL. Lee was principal of the Shore Road and Winthrop Avenue elementary schools in Bellmore, NY for over 20 years. He and his late wife, Margaret Ann,
 HENNINGSEN--Victor William Jr., of Pelham Manor, NY, died March 26, 2007. Born May 19, 1924, he was a lifelong resident of the town of Pelham. He leaves his beloved wife of 58 years, Mayde, his children and their spouses: Vic and Susan, of Andover, MA; Kit and Caroline, of Stony Creek, CT; 
 KORNREICH--Mort. Mort, You were my other half and best friend since birth. You will live in our hearts forever. Matt and Sue $(6$)KORNREICH--Mort. Uncle Morty, our hearts are broken with your passing, though they are filled and enlightened for having known and loved you. Your philan
 KRAKOFF--Robert. The Trustees and Staff of the Norton Museum of Art are saddened by the loss of local businessman and loyal patron, Robert Krakoff, loving husband of Sandra Krakoff. We send our deepest condolences. Sarah Ross Soter, President, Board of Trustees Christina Orr-Cahall, Directo
 PATZ--Joseph, died Wednesday morning, March 28. Predeceased by his wife Sarah, he is survived by his sons Norman, Stanley, Jerrold and their families, and by his siblings David and Annie and by numerous nephews and nieces. He was active in Jewish and civic life. He was a mensch, loyal to hi
 ROSIN--Axel. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Axel Rosin, a treasured leader who was deeply devoted to the Jewish people and cultural arts initiatives. Axel upheld his familys commitment to tikkun olam and has made an indelible impa
 SCHWARTZ--Philip K. The attorneys and staff of Davis & Gilbert LLP mourn the passing of our partner, mentor and friend Phil Schwartz. From the time he joined us in 1943 until his retirement several years ago, Phil extended to his colleagues and clients his extraordinary intellect, legal ski
 TRENT--Bertram J., died March 28, 2007 at the age of 88 of lung cancer. He was a resident of Scarsdale, NY and Palm Beach, FL. He leaves behind his loving wife, Geraldine, of 60 years, his two cherished sons, Bruce and Michael, Michael's spouse Laura, two grandsons, Daniel and Jason. Educat
 WHITE--Lawrence (Larry), died on March 25, 2007. Born in Cohoes, NY, he was one of the pioneers of the early days of television broadcasting. He began his career at the Dumont Television Network. At CBS he was instrumental in developing the long running daytime programs, 'As the World Turns
 CORDON--Jim ''He has lived -therefore he lives.'' Yves Klein Richard Giglio       
 Ransom A. Myers, a fisheries biologist whose work brought wide attention to collapsing fish stocks around the world, died on Tuesday in Halifax, Nova Scotia. He was 54. His death was announced by Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, where he ran a research laboratory focusing on the
 George C. Izenour, a pioneer in theater design and technology who helped bring automation to stagecraft, died Saturday in Philadelphia. He was 94. The death was announced by Jeffrey Milet, a partner in Mr. Izenour's theater design consulting company, George C. Izenour Associates.   
 AMPEL--Stuart Owen, January 4, 1947 -March 18, 2007. Unlimited creative talents from plumber to swim suit designer to inventor (Ampel Probe), artist and jokester. Stu will be missed by his children; Phillip, Samantha and Darren; sister Pamela, brother Gary; their spouses; grandchildren Bran
 FARLEY--James Parker of Wilton, CT, died peacefully on March 29. Born in Newark, NJ on September 16, 1924, Jim leaves his beloved wife of 56 years, Irene, and their four children: James and wife Petra and children Devin, Colin and Carling of London; Catherine and son-in-law David Elkind and
 GOLDBERG--Rabbi Jacob, in deep sorrow, the officers and employees of Riverside Memorial Chapel mourn the passing of a true Tzadik, a righteous and exemplary Jew. To his wife, Helen, and his entire family, we extend our sincere condolences. Charles S. Salomon, Pres. David A. Alpert, Sr. Vice
 HEIM--Richard M. President of Richard M. Heim Advertising, died on March 26th, at the age of 81, and worked until the last day of his life. Richard lived a full and vibrant personal and professional life and was loved by all who knew him for his kindness and generosity. He served in the U.S
 KORNREICH--Mort. A good friend. A renaissance man. We'll miss you. Barney & Ethel Mayrsohn $(6$)KORNREICH--Mort. The Officers, Board of Directors, and the entire staff of The NIA Group and Kornreich NIA are deeply saddened by the passing of Mort Kornreich, CoChairman of the Kornreic
 KORS--Sanford, 83, on March 28, 2007. Cherished husband of Ruth, adored and adoring father, devoted brother and a wonderful friend. His love touched all those he encountered. He played racquetball at the 92nd St. YMHA. Funeral 9:30am, Friday (today), Edwards - Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashfor
 MARSHALL--Robert P., 88, longtime resident of Bronxville, NY, died peacefully on March 27 at Essex Meadows, Essex, CT, where he had resided the last three years. He is survived by Mildred, his devoted wife of 64 years; his three children and their spouses, Bob and Siri Marshall of Deephaven
 NEWMAN--Donald J., March 28, 2007. Husband of Herta (nee Feingold), father of David Newman (Pauline) and Daniel Newman (Samara); brother of Ava Newman Sterling (Bruce), Gilda Newman Forrester (George); grandfather of Rebecca, Max and Emily. Relatives and friends are invited to Funeral Servi
 POSTOL--Elliott. ''Trust the universe -I am safe, it's only change''. With love and gratitude in our hearts we announce, for the many friends he had in the United States, the transition of our dearest Elliott Postol (September 14, 1947 (New York) -March 27, 2007 (Amsterdam)). Elliott inspir
 ROSENBERG--Milton. Three Arrows Cooperative Society mourns the loss of longtime member, Milton Rosenberg on March 16. His wisdom, wit, warmth and love for Three Arrows guided us for six decades. Our sympathy is with his daughter Carol Marsh (Peter), his son Gerald N. Rosenberg (Bonnie), his
 SHAPIRO--Hyman R., formerly of Lake Worth, Florida, died peacefully on March 29, 2007 at the age of 98. Survived by his daughter, Leila, and her husband, Robert Rubler, grandchildren; Leslie and Neil and Neil's wife Allison; greatgrandchildren Madeleine and Olivia, and his sister Ruth Helfa
 STARK--Howard E. Cleveland native, a pioneer in television broadcasting, passed away March 12, 2007, at age 92, in New York City. He is survived by brothers Sol (Doris) of West Palm Beach, FL, and Cleveland, Mort (Mae, deceased) and Al (Joyce); and sister, Marilyn Micohn (Al), all of Clevel
 THOMPSON--William Ives, 85, long a fixture of the office products industry, died March 22, 2007, at his home in Rockport, Maine after a long illness. He was born February 28, 1922 in Paterson, NJ. Thompson joined the Naval Air Corp in 1942. He flew 125 reconnaissance missions aboard the B-2
 TRENT--Bertram J., died March 28, 2007 at the age of 88 of lung cancer. He was a resident of Scarsdale, NY and Palm Beach, FL. He leaves behind his loving wife, Geraldine, of 60 years, his two cherished sons, Bruce and Michael, Michael's spouse Laura, two grandsons, Daniel and Jason. Educat
 Dr. Robert Austrian, who developed a pneumococcal vaccine that has saved the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, died Sunday in Philadelphia. He was 90. The cause was a stroke, said Dr. Harvey M. Friedman, chief of infectious diseases at the University of Pennsylvania, where D
 Bernard R. Landau, a biochemist and physician whose innovative studies of how the liver processes glucose helped shed light on what goes wrong in diabetes, died on March 24 in Cleveland. He was 80 and lived in Shaker Heights, Ohio. The cause was a blood-borne infection, his family s
 Hy Weiss, a music executive from the hardscrabble early days of rock 'n' roll, died on March 20 in Englewood, N.J. He was 84 and lived in Rockleigh, N.J. His death was announced by the Zomba Label Group, of which his son, Barry Weiss, is president and chief executive. Born i
 J. Paul Sticht, a former chairman of the tobacco company R. J. Reynolds Industries, now called Reynolds American, died Tuesday in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 89. He lived in North Palm Beach, Fla., and had homes in Meredith, N.H., and Winston-Salem. Mr. Sticht died at the J. 
 Joel Brodsky, a photographer whose work appeared on the covers of hundreds of albums -- most memorably ''The Best of the Doors,'' with its provocative Christlike image of Jim Morrison in black and white -- died on March 1 in Stamford, Conn., where he had lived for five years. He was 67 and 
 BLACK--Leonard J. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Leonard J. Black. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Betty, and their family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretar
 KRAKOFF--Robert L. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and friend, Robert Krakoff, and send condolences to his family.       
 POTTER--Lester. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Senior Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President $(6$)POTTER--Lester, 93, died peacefully at his home in Great Neck, NY on March 29. A wonde
 SATZ--Marvin (Bud), 85, after a valiant battle against Melanoma on March 30. Adored and adoring husband of Rita for 64 years. Deeply loved and loving father of Richard, Tina, Ginnie, Andy and Kathleen. Very special grandfather of Rebekah, Jed and Virginia, Brian, Elizabeth, Meghan and Grace
 WEITZNER--Daniel, M.D., 78. Dearly beloved husband of Tilly for 51 wonderful years, deeply devoted father of Naomi, Robert and Rebecca, father-in-law of Cliff Hart, and adoring grandfather (Bumpy) of Jake and Alex Hart. Died surrounded by his loving family on March 29th, but will continue t
 GOLDSTEIN--Charles. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 Tony Scott, a distinguished jazz clarinetist who in the 1950s helped steer his instrument out of the swing era and into the sax-infested waters of bebop, died on Wednesday at his home in Rome. He was 85 and had lived in Italy for many years. The apparent cause was complications of t
 Toshio Sasaki, a Japanese sculptor known for works in public spaces, particularly ''The First Symphony of the Sea,'' a 322-foot-long wall relief at the New York Aquarium at Coney Island, died on March 10 near his home in Nagakute in the Aichi Prefecture of Japan. He was 60 and also had a ho
