 Anthony Corallo, the salty and stoical former boss of the Lucchese crime family who went to jail for life after the authorities overheard him chatting to his driver about the mob's control of New York City's construction industry, died Aug. 23 in a federal prison hospital in Springfield, Mo
 John C. A. Watkins, the longest-serving publisher of The Providence Journal, died Wednesday in Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. He was 87. Mr. Watkins, a decorated World War II fighter pilot, was publisher of The Journal for 25 years, from 1954 to 1979, and retired as chairman of T
 ALTMAN-David. The Producer Circle Co. mourns the loss of our cherished friend David, a warm and wise and talented gentleman. Our deepest condolences to his family, his dear wife Floria V. Lasky, and their daughters Emily and Dara. Martin Richards, Maryanne Dittmann, Sam Crothers, Monique Be
 BARBALATA-Victor. Kateri Residence notes the sad passing of Victor Barbalata, M.D. A venerable physician, he was a loving husband, devoted father, and adoring grandfather. We are all lessened by this loss. L.L. Bond, Exec. Vice Pres. and Medical Staff Kateri Residence       
 BEHAM-William. In his 93rd year. Much loved husband of the late Miriam (Marcus). Dear companion of Fanny Glixman. Wonderful father, grandfather, great-grandfather, colleague and friend. Never bored, always learning, he loved life and life returned the compliment. Services Wednesday, Septemb
 DICK-Stuart. Departed this life on August 30, 2000 at home following a long and courageous battle with lung cancer. Beloved husband of Dacota; devoted father of Aviva, Christina, Melissa and Maxwell. Dedicated son to his mother, Frances. He was cherished by his extended families and dear fr
 GREENFIELD - Myron ''Mike''. Beloved husband of Adina (nee Grama) whom he adored in life and will never be parted from her heart. Beloved father of Sari and Ari Bacon, Drs. Debra and Sol Genuth, Benjamin and Sara Greenfield, Aviva and Rabbi Avram Skurowitz, Gila and Steve Stone, and Yehuda 
 GRONNINGSATER - Arne. The Trustees, faculty and administration of Riverdale Country School regret the passing on August 30, of Arne Gronningsater, teacher and friend to generations of students. Our deepest sympathies go to his children, Arne, Howell, Alan, Kari and Annie. An English teacher
 GRONNINGSATER-Arne Howell. April 12, 1912-August 29, 2000, died on Tuesday, August 29th, 2000 in Elizabethtown, NY. He was the son of Anton and Annie (Howell) Gronningsater. Born in Kristiansand, Norway, on April 12, 1912, he immigrated to America with this family when he was 9 years old. H
 KUMRO-Arthur C. Age 74. On Tuesday, August 29th, 2000, of Arlington, VA. Beloved husband of 48 years of the late M. Louise Kumro. Loving father of Kathy L. Bradish and her husband Stephen of Woodbridge, VA, and Richard A. Kumro and his wife Kaare Phillips of New York City. Grandfather of Ri
 LEIDERMAN-Simon. Loving husband to Mella. Devoted father of Yannek (Genevieve) Liederman, Fania (Louis) Samuels. Cherished grandfather of Rosa, Sara and Marissa. Services Friday, 2:00 PM at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels'', 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York. LEIDERMAN-D
 MAYER-Robert G. On Saturday August 26th, 2000, of Chatham Township, NJ, formerly of West Orange, NJ, and Brooklyn, NY. Husband of June Driscoll Mayer and the late Shirley S. Mayer. Father of Robert G. Mayer and J. Ridgeley Weinberg. Grandfather of Ian C., Bret N. and Lyndsey A. Mayer. Relat
 PHILLIPS-Lawrence E. Jr. 0n August 31, of Ridgewood, NJ. Survived by his wife Doris, 2 sons Lawrence III and Thomas G. of NY, NY, a grandson Lawrence H. and two brothers Nicholas of Wyckoff, NJ and Robert of NY, NY. Mr. Phillips was a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Business Sch
 SCHLING-Daniel A. ''Bucky''. Formerly of Edgemont, NY in his 34th year on August 5 in Los Angeles where he resided while pursing his career in film as a screenwriter and film technician. Devoted son of Joseph M. and Phyllis E. Schling of Bolton, MA. Beloved grandson of Mildred Sutain and th
 SCHWARTZ-Sy. The City University of New York deeply mourns the passing of beloved friend and colleague Sy Schwartz, Executive Vice President of Howard J. Rubenstein Associates. Sy assisted the City University of New York for almost eighteen years, providing wise counsel and expert help in c
 TISHELMAN-Joseph. The Law Firm of Hartman & Craven express sincere condolences to the family of our partner Ed Tishelman on the passing of his father.       
 WILSON-Philip C., M.D. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with the physcians and staff in the Department of Psychiatry in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and devoted teacher, C. Philip Wilson, M.D., a member of the hospital's medical staff
 BRONSTEIN-Melvin, M.D. 4/9/24-9/1/96. A unique man, so dearly missed by his wife and children. You are in our hearts and minds every moment. Gloria and children       
 Paul Yager, a veteran federal labor mediator who helped resolve several important labor strikes in the New York City region, died Monday at a hospital in Edison, N.J. He was 80 and lived in Metuchen, N.J. The cause was heart failure, his daughter Deborah Yager said. Mr. Yage
 Bruce Giles, a newspaper executive in the Southeast and a former chairman of the Freedom of Information Committee of the Associated Press Managing Editors association, died on Thursday in Tuscaloosa, Ala. He was 53. The cause of death was cancer. Mr. Giles was executive edit
 Euan Uglow, a British realist artist whose work received high praise in his homeland, died on Thursday in London. He was 68 and lived in London. The cause was cancer, The Times of London reported. Mr. Uglow won particular praise in Britain for his nudes and his still lifes. 
 James A. Cavanagh, a former first deputy mayor who advised Mayor Abraham D. Beame during the depth of New York City's fiscal crisis in the 1970's, died Thursday at a hospice near his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 86. A native of Brooklyn whose career in city government spanned 
 Leon A. Harris Jr., a biographer and a former department store executive, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Dallas. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Jane Wolfe. After graduating from Harvard University in 1947, Mr. Harris began working at A. Harris & C
 ADAMS-Seibert G. Well known in the college textbook publishing industry, died on Wednesday September 20 in Sharon, Ct. He was 65. Born October 12, 1934 in New Haven, Ct., son of Seibert Gruber Adams and Norma M. Adams. He graduated from Yale University in 1957 and served as a lieutenant in 
 ALTMAN-David R. On August 30, 2000 in New York City. David loved life. Beyond all others, he made the everyday extraordinary. He found joy where others could not see it. He turned strangers into friends and friends into family. And then there is Floria. His wife, his life, of over 53 years.
 BARNES-Daniel. Of Rye, NY, and Stony Creek, CT. Beloved father of Caroline Henningsen of Rye, NY, David Barnes of Boulder, CO, and Melissa Janssen of Darien, CT. War hero, avid pilot, brilliant engineer and short order cook for his five grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, donations may be ma
 BECKER-Arnold. 68, died September 8, 2000. Devoted son of Yetta and his late father Wolf, husband of Margaret, father of John and stepfather of Denise and Sara. Grandfather of Kai and Harry. We will remember him with love. Services today, 10:30 AM, at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 Seco
 BECKER-John M. Of Mamaroneck, NY on September 10, 2000. Beloved husband of Alice, devoted father of Scott and Robin. Loving grandfather of Meghan Jerrild. Memorial service Saturday, September 16 at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, Mamaroneck, NY at 11 o'clock AM. Contributions in his memory to 
 BERKUN-Mordecai A., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleage and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secretary 
 BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. Died on Tuesday evening after a long battle with pancreatic cancer. Born May 24th, 1937 in New York City, he is survived by his devoted wife of 33 years, Stephanie Hammerschlag Bernheim; their loving children, Erica Bernheim, Claudia Bernheim and her husband, Leo Ra
 BOOKIS-John S. Passed away on September 2, 2000, at age 79. Survived by his wife Sophia, his children George, Mary-Kay, Susan and Joan. His brothers Gregory and Blaise, his sister Suzie, his grandchildren, his nephews and nieces. His courageous spirit will always live in our hearts. Friends
 BORN-Robert W. Cherished husband of Esther Born; devoted father of Rita and Fred Distenfeld, and Richard and Deborah Born, and loving grandfather of Michael, Caroline, Jennifer, Claire, and Max. We mourn the passing of our irreplaceable husband, father, and grandfather. He made each of our 
 BRIGGS-Taylor Rastrick. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P., mourns with sorrow the September 1 passing of our dear friend, colleague, and former Chairman, Taylor Rastrick Briggs. An immensely gifted litigator, Taylor joined LeBoeuf in 1961, was made Partner in 1963 and served as Chairma
 BURKE-Honorable Adrian P., The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Hon. Adrian P. Burke, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., H
 CANDEE-Seymour R. ''Sy''. A man of great courage and wisdom. His word was his bond, as was his reputation. He was a kind and loving husband to Peg, sons Glenn and Robert and Eileen, and grandsons Jason, Brian and Kevin, and his brother Morton. He graduated from St. John's University and was
 CARBONE-Pietro J. Late of New York City's Village String Shop. Died September 6, in Miami. He made and restored violins and guitars, was in the center of the folk movement and inspired the young. He started a union for women electricians.       
 CHANG-David Jih-Yuan. With great sadness, we announce the passing of David Jih-Yuan Chang on September 7, 2000, in NYC after a brief illness. An accomplished civil engineer, David designed many distinguished projects including the Crystal Cathedral in California, the majestic tented roof of
 CHASNOW-Edwin, M.D. A gentle, warm, good natured man, Ed endured with courage, dignity and good humor. Survived by his incredibly devoted wife Maxine, children Marci (Tim), Jeff (Mary Beth) and Adam, grandchildren Ian, Nina and Lauren, and sister Eleanor (Jerry). Services will be held Septe
 CHITTENDEN-George H. In Branford, CT, September 7, of 155 Buffalo Bay, Madison, CT, formerly of Rye, NY. Husband of Sarah Parker Chittenden and the late Laura Carey Chittenden. Retired international banker, having served with J.P. Morgan for many years. He was a Yale University graduate of 
 De PROSPO-Dr. Chris J., 90, pioneer in the field of special education died September 7, 2000 in Maryland. Dr. De Prospo rose through the New York City public education system to become full professor and department chair of special education at The City University of New York and, later, at
 DEWAR-Robert E. Age 7 7, died peacefully at home on September 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Nancy. Loving father of Robert and his wife, Alison, Jane and John. Dearly loved grandfather of Bessie and Charlotte. Brother of Dale Dewar. Memorial service at Kirk in the Hills, 1340 W. Long Lake Roa
 DIAMOND-Eugene B. New York University's Stern School of Business mourns the passing of a member of the Commerce Class of 1941, Eugene B. Diamond at age 79 on September 7, 2000, in Media, Pennsylvania. A loyal and supportive alumni, we remember his entrepreneurial spirit and generosity to th
 DWAN-Brian T., 52, of New York, NY, on Wednesday, Sept. 11, 2000. After a brief illness. Beloved son of Grace (Barrett) Dwan of Harwich, MA., and the late Leon Adams Dwan. Brother of Grace Valentino of Sarasota, FL, Stephen Dwan of Walpole, MA, and Marilyn Kline of Port Charlotte, FL. Also 
 EDMUNDS-Robert, M.D. Died peacefully September 18, 2000. Born September 14, 1924, Toledo, OH. Graduate Harvard College 1946 and Columbia Univ. College of Physicians and Surgeons 1951. He was a surgeon on the staff of St. Luke's Hospital for 25 years and served on the Faculty of Columbia P&S
 EVENTOFF-Hyman. Survived by two daughters, Doreen Hurwitz and Barbara Gardner, four grandchildren, Amy Weisman, Shari Sollender, Gary Young and Jodi Young, three great-grandchildren, Jared, Julia, Paige, brother Al Eventoff, sister Rose Hellman and cherished companion Beverly Kahn and her l
 FASMAN-Dennis N. Beloved husband of Barbara. Cherished father of Kenneth, Judy, Steven, Carol, Glen and Roger. Devoted grandfather to Jennifer, Anna, Matthew and Adam. Funeral at the New City Jewish Center, Old Schoolhouse Rd, New City, NY at 11 AM today. Contributions in his name to the Am
 FEIBELMANN-Gideon. Passed away on September 1, 2000 at age 60. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Sandra and Lynne, and cherished nephew of Trude Hirsch. His courageous spirit will always live in our hearts. Services at Temple Beth Abraham, Tarrytown, on Sunday, September 3 at 10 
 FERRITER-Joseph F. Retired Securities Analyst and longtime resident of New York died Friday, September 1 in Alexandria, VA. following a lengthy illness. He was 89 years old. Mr. Ferriter was born in Brattleboro, VT, in 1910. Following service in the U.S. Army in World War II he worked for m
 FLEISCHMANN-Charles Foote. On September 4, 2000 in Fairfield, CT. Mr. Fleischmann was born in 1916 in New York City, the son of Charles Maximilian Fleischmann and Alice Dumont Foote. He graduated in 1935 from St. George's School and immediately began a career in business which included posi
 GENGLER-Thomas Edmund. On September 1, 2000 of Malverne, N.Y. Devoted husband of Eleanor for 49 years and father of Tom (Mary), June (Jay), Bill, Jane (Kevin) and Barbara. Grandfather of Marie, Nancy, Tommy, Ed, Laura, Matt (Jaime), Joe, Robin, Kevin, Ryan, and George. Also survived by his 
 GIBBONS-Michael J., Jr. On September 10, 2000, of Staten Island, N.Y., formerly of Rockville Centre, N.Y. Beloved son of Maureen (nee Gallagher) and Michael J. Dear brother of F. Kelly (Jeanine), Theresa A. (Alexander Furman), Justin P. (Melissa), Ashley C. and Trevor B. Gibbons. Loving unc
 GORDON-Lawrence. Born July 26, 1922, died September 8, 2000, of New York and Palm Beach, following a courageous battle with Alzheimer's and cancer. He was the devoted son of the late Harry and Etta Gordon and brother to Seymour. Lawrence is survived by his loving wife Janet and their childr
 HOGEN-Charles Robert, 92. Died on July 16 at his home in Lenox, Massachusetts. His surviving children are Timothy Hogen of New York City, Sherill Covian of Shelburne Falls, MA, Robin Hogen of Westport, CT, Lyn Mason of Seattle, Washington, and Jackson Hogen of Newbury, MA. Charles was born 
 JARCHO-Saul, MD. On September 10, 2000. Survived by his wife, Irma S., his sons, Tom and Andrew, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Also survived by his sister, Grace J. Ross and many nephews and nieces. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 
 JARCHO-Saul, MD. On September 10, 2000. Survived by his wife, Irma S., his sons, Tom and Andrew, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Also survived by his sister, Grace J. Ross and many nephews and nieces. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 
 JOLIS-Albert. September 19, 2000. Beloved husband of Mona. Devoted father of Paul, Jack, James and the late Alan. Loving brother of the late Bernard. Cherished grandfather of Jane, Annie, Oliver, Timothy, Lucy, Jacob & Jeremy. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. He was a
 KENNY-Eugene E. Died at the age of 86 on September 9, 2000 at his home in Manhasset, NY. Gene was born in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn. Loving husband of Ursula. Cherished father of Constance, Eugene and Michael. Dear brother of Margaret Butler. He graduated Manhattan College in 1937. G
 KRIEGER-Zanvyl. We mourn the loss of a true giant in the world of Jewish and general philanthropy. As a Diamond Founder of the Medical Center, his outstretched hand of kindness made an invaluable contribution to our Department of Ophthalmology and to many thousands of people in Jerusalem. O
 LANG-Martin. On September 4, 2000. Born January 28, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY. Martin was the devoted husband of Bertha Friedman Lang for 62 years, loving father to Judith Lang Zaimont, Doris Lang Kosloff and Robert David Lang and grandfather to Adam Lang Harris Kosloff, Daniel Max Lang Kosloff,
 LEMLE-Leo. The Trustees, Museum Council and Staff of The Jewish Museum are deeply saddened by the passing of a longtime friend, generous supporter and member of the Museum Council, Leo Lemle. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Gertrude, an active member of the Volunteer Associa
 LEMLE-Leo K. On Sep tember 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Trude. Loving father of Laura and Robert. Dear father-in-law of Grant and Roni. Devoted grandfather of Zach, Joanna, Ariel, David and Noah. He will be deeply missed and live in our hearts forever. Service Sunday, 1:15PM at ''The Riversi
 LEPORE-Michael J., M. D. The Gastroenterology Dept. of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital was saddened to hear of the loss of Dr. Michael Lepore, the former Chief of Gastroenterology at Roosevelt Hospital (1962-1966). He was an outstanding educator and an inspiration to many of our trainees and 
 LERMAN-Irving ''Lefty''. Age 83. Of Merrick, N.Y. and Fort Lauderdale, FL. died Sunday, September 10, 2000. Beloved and devoted husband to Anne for 60 years. Cherished father of Ilene Shotland and Sidney Lerman. Loving father-inlaw to Carole. Adored grandfather of Michelle and Bill Christia
 LEVIN-Sidney H. Age 94. Died on September 19, 2000. In Los Angeles, CA. He is survived by his wife Idelle, his brother Alfred, his son Robert and daughter-in-law Elizabeth.       
 LIPTON-Allen A. Died September 3, 2000. He was 83. He was born February 12, 1917, in Brooklyn, to Hyman and Mary Lipkowitz. He leaves his wife Dorothea (nee Glaser), son Leonard of Bethel, CT, daughters Linda Bergeron of Discovery Bay, CA, Lois Sheppard of Seal Beach, CA, his sister Sally K
 LITTLE-Wm. Brian. Loved husband, father, son, grandfather, father-in-law, friend of Judy, Jackie, Greg, Bill, Will, Megan, Jack, Henry and Alicia. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Colgate University or the Photography Department of the Santa Barbara Museum of Art or the Phot
 LOUKS-A. Forrest. Of St. Croix, Virgin Islands, formerly of Fairfield, CT, died at Emory Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia, on August 22. He was the beloved husband of Katharine J. Ward and devoted father of Dr. Carolyn Bondy of Bethesda, MD., and grandfather to Eric and Peter Bondy. He is also 
 MacWILLIAMS-John J. Of Old Lyme, CT, died on September 20, 2000. He is formerly of Pebble Beach, CA and Philadelphia, PA. He was born in Syracuse, NY on April 30, 1929. He attended Phillips Academy, Andover, MA., and graduated from Hobart College. He was the former chairman and CEO of Colon
 MAUKSCH-George S. On August 20, 2000, died suddenly of a heart attack while vacationing in the south of France. He would have turned 81 on August 31. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Mary, his daughters Judith and Jane, their husbands Richard Cotter and Bill Perri, and four grandchil
 MEANY-Stephen J., S.J. Died of cancer Sunday, September 3 at Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, Bronx, NY. For the five years prior to his death, Fr. Meany, who recited on the campus of Fordham University, had conducted retreats for lay and religious throughout the Eastern United States and 
 MILLER-William B. Died on September 1, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn, devoted father of Rebecca and Louise, stepfather of Laura, Judy and Bob, and grandfather of Natalia and Kira, loving brother of Murray and Sue, cherished uncle of Lowell, Greg and Max. Services 10 AM Sunday, Pl
 MOLISANI-Marianne A. On September 19, 2000. Wife of the late E. Howard Molisani. Beloved mother of two sons Rex and his wife Teri of Trinton Falls, NJ and Mark and his wife Lisa of Chatham, NJ. Grandmother of Jason, Matthew, Michael, and Christin. A funeral Liturgy will be held at Corpus Ch
 MONTGOMERY-Robert H. Jr. The Board of Directors of AmSong, Inc. mourns the passing of our founding member and dear friend, Robert H. Montgomery, Jr. Bob's warmth, intelligence, integrity and dedication to songwriters and their families won him the love and respect of our entire membership. 
 MULDOON-Thomas W. The leadership of Continuum Health Partners, Inc., and the staffs of its partner institutions express their sympathies over the passing of Thomas W. Muldoon, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague Thomas Muldoon, MD. To Tom, his family, and all his father's loved 
 MURPHY-Walter J. The Board of Directors and Staff of The National Counsel on Alcholism and Drug Dependence, Inc, mourn the passing of Walter Murphy, a former Executive Director, and extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Debbie, and family. Walter dedicated his later life to fighting th
 NUSSENOW-Adolph Peter. On Sept. 3, 2000. Beloved husband of Marion. Devoted father of Dinah and his grandchildren, Daniel, Benjamin and Lea. We will never forget him. Funeral private.       
 O'CONNOR-Robert K. Died on August 22, 2000, in Vero Beach, FL, after a long illness. Born January 13, 1922, in Holyoke, MA, he was a graduate of Amherst College and NYU School of Business. During WWII he was a Navy pilot. After a long career as a stockbroker and securities analyst he retire
 ODESSEY-Paul Herman. Died at his home in Great Neck, NY, on Tuesday, September 19, 2000. Mr. Odessey was President of Polarad Electronics Corporation from 1949 -1965. Mr. Odessey was the holder of many patents; notably one of the earliest translating devices developed for the U.N. From 1965
 PADOVANO-Louis, S.J., M.D. On September 20, 2000. Beloved son of the late John and Margaret Padovano. Loving brother of John Padovano, Jr. and Angela Alaimo. Dear brother-in-law of Consuelo Padovano and Joseph Anthony Alaimo. Cherished uncle of Lisa and Christopher Alaimo, John III, Margare
 PENNER-Marvin. Beloved husband of Ethel. Devoted father of Judith & son-in-law James Broach, and Amy and son-in-law John Walker. Cherished grandfather of Sara & Matthew Broach & Adam Walker. He was with the ILGWU for 30 years. Donations in his memory can be made to the Hospice Center of Nor
 PFLUG-John Rueger (Johnny). One of the last players from the golden age of polo in New York, died September 1,2000 He was 90 years old and lived in Plandome. N.Y. A star athlete at St. Paul's School in Garden City, N.Y. Mr. Pflug was offered a baseball contract by the Brooklyn Dodgers, but 
 REDSTON-Dr. Robert. September 9, 2000. Age 82. Revered physician. Beloved husband to Leona for 57 years. Loving father to Terry Cohen and Audrey Iselin. Caring father-in-law to Norman Cohen and David Iselin. Doting grandfather to Abby, Noah, Josh, Alex, Leora, Mali and Ilan. His memory will
 ROBBINS-Guy, M.D. On Sept. 9, 2000. He was widower of Louise, father of Kirk, Kathy and Richard, grandfather of Holly, Clifford and Vivian. He devoted his medical career to the treatment and cure of breast cancer. A former chief of the Breast Service at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, and consult
 ROITMAN-Leo. Born March 20, 1907 in Russia, to David and Sonya Roitman. Died on August 31 in Encinitas. Beloved husband of May (died 1946) and Ethel (died 1989). Beloved brother of Vera Spiegel and Claire Hotchner. Beloved father of Judy and David. Beloved grandfather of Ben Lombardo and Jo
 ROSEVEAR-Kenneth White, 93. Died September 15, 2000. Husband of the late Leslie (nee Ferguson), he is survived by two daughters, Cora Rosevear and Linda Greenberg, and two grandchildren, Leslie and Paul. A longtime resident of New York and Roslyn, Long Island, he lived in Sykesville, Maryla
 SAPERSTONE-Bert. The Junior League of Brooklyn School for Special Children records with sorrow the passing of our dear loving friend and member. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Phoebe and their children. Beverly Weston, President Marcia Winikoff, Chairperson       
 SARGENT-James O'Hara. Born August 3, 1962, died September 15, 2000. Beloved son of Clement Denny Sargent and Anne Sargent. Beloved brother and dear friend. He will be missed by all. SARGENT-James O. The employees of Rolex Watch USA mourn the loss of our good friend and colleague, Ji
 SCHACHTER-Scott A. 74, of Levittown, NY, died suddenly after surgery on August 31, 2000. Beloved and devoted husband of Justine, for 51 years. Cherished father of Linda Wright, Barbara Costa, Peter Schachter and David Schachter. Treasured father-in-law of Robert Wright, Antonia Schachter an
 SCHMERER-Frederick, MD. On September 2, 2000. Beloved son, brother, uncle and great-uncle. He was a Major in the U.S. Army, a retired NYC police inspector and was on the staff of Montefiore Hospital. He will be deeply missed.       
 SCHORR-Max. Beloved Palm Beach and former New York City attorney, 92, died Tuesday afternoon in Palm Beach from complications of prostate cancer. A counsel at Edwards & Angell, Max was one of Florida's oldest practicing attorneys. A graduate of Brooklyn Law School, he practiced from the ear
 SINGER-Bernard E. On September 10, 2000. Amongst his many accomplishments in the field of law and his humanitarian efforts, he was past President of B'nai B'rith Harrison chapter. Devoted husband of Rose. Beloved father of Henry and Amy Singer, Elizabeth and Dennis Hevey, Margery and Steven
 SONDERLING - Arthur, C.P.A. Died peacefully at home on September 2, 2000. Loving husband of Lillian, cherished father of Edward and Harlan, beloved father-in-law and grandfather. A gentleman and a lifelong New Yorker, born August 18, 1914, graduate of Dewitt Clinton High School and NYU, 193
 TAVCAR-Lawrence R., 64. A longtime senior public relations executive who was an expert in preparing corporate annual reports, died on August 24 at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital, near his home in Stamford. He managed or was involved in the production of 80 annual reports, sometimes drafting the
 WALSH-James P. Born on April 12, 1929, James P. Walsh passed away on Saturday, September 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Katherine (Dawida) Walsh; devoted father of Kathleen and Jack Stanley, Janet and George Massie, and Caroline Walsh and George Rosenberg; loving grandfather of Jack, Paul, Lar
 WASSERMAN-Herbert, 69. Died September 8, 2000 at his home in Tyringham, MA., after a two year battle with colon cancer. Born on July 30, 1931, he graduated from Harvard College & Harvard Law School. Lawyer, producer/impresario, and business executive, he is survived by his wife of 44 years,
 WEIN - Professor Leon. The Brooklyn Law School Community mourns the loss of a beloved colleague and esteemed teacher. Over the past three decades he has touched the lives of thousands of students, lawyers and friends. Although his presence will be missed, his legacy will be enduring. We ext
 WEISS-Sidney Matthew. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Sidney Matthew Weiss, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who 
 WYETH-Leonard Jarvis. Of Lakeville, CT, died August 29th in Sharon (CT) Hospital. He was the son of the late Leonard J. and the late Priscilla Mullins Bull Wyeth of New York City. He leaves his cherished wife of 59 years, Pamela Evans Wyeth, two daughters, Pamela I. Wyeth of S. Westerlo, NY
 ZAYAS-Richard. Of Brooklyn Heights, NY, left this world on September 8. A graduate of Midwood High School, Brooklyn, and Harvard College, he also attended Harvard Business School and was a management consultant. Formerly served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Empire State Pride
 Theodore W. Trautwein, the New Jersey judge who sent a reporter to jail in 1978 in a celebrated case that tested the boundaries of press freedom and fair trials, died on Aug. 17 in Hollywood, Fla., where he had lived for the last two years. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, sa
 ALTMAN-David R. On August 30, 2000 in New York City. David loved life. Beyond all others, he made the everyday extraordinary. He found joy where others could not see it. He turned strangers into friends and friends into family. And then there is Floria. His wife, his life, of over 53 years.
 BARBALATA-Victor, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mt. Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing and devoted colleague. Dr. Barbalata was a member of the Department of Medicine for more than 30 years. He was vigorously involved in the total care of his patient
 BEHAM-William. In his 93rd year. Much loved husband of the late Miriam (Marcus). Dear companion of Fanny Glixman. Wonderful father, grandfather, great-grandfather, colleague and friend. Never bored, always learning, he loved life and life returned the compliment. Services Wednesday, Septemb
 BRIGGS-Taylor Rastrick. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P., mourns with sorrow the September 1 passing of our dear friend, colleague, and former Chairman, Taylor Rastrick Briggs. An immensely gifted litigator, Taylor joined LeBoeuf in 1961, was made Partner in 1963 and served as Chairma
 FRITZ-Herbert P., D.D.S. 88. Of Somers, NY, died August 25 at his Chautauqua, NY summer home. A dental professor at Columbia for 50 years with practices in Mount Vernon and Chappaqua, NY, Dr. Fritz is survived by his loving wife of 60 years, Marjorie Turnbull Fritz, & his children Janet Her
 KONIGSBERG-Moses, Ph.D. Of Framingham, MA, died at the age of 87 on September 2, 2000. Beloved husband of Sue, cherished father of Alan and Sheryl, he is also survived by brothers and sisters, Polly, Cissy, David, Saralee and Charles. He was predeceased by brothers Raphael and Haskell and s
 KRONGELB-Irving. Died August 29, 2000, in New York City, age 82. He had a long career as Professor of Psychology and Director of Student Counseling at Brooklyn College, retiring in 1981. He was a devoted father, son, brother, husband, companion and friend, and dedicated his life to helping 
 OLSON-Carl E. Thelen Reid & Priest LLP, mourns the loss of a friend and colleague. Carl joined the former Reid & Priest during WWII and then served in the US Army. Upon his return, he rejoined Reid & Priest and was elected partner. Carl was highly regarded by his peers for his excellent law
 PIPILIS-Nikolaos (Captain Nick). Died Tuesday, August 29, 2000 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He is survived by his wife Peggy; four children Dite, Peter, Nicole, Christopher; two grandchildren Jordan and Austin; three sisters Loy, Chrisanthi, Mimika and brother George. Funeral services
 SCHACHTER-Scott A. 74, of Levittown, NY, died suddenly on August 31, 2000. Beloved and devoted husband of Justine, for 51 years. Cherished father of Linda Wright, Barbara Costa, Peter Schachter and David Schachter. Treasured father-in-law of Robert Wright, Antonia Schachter and Scott Hunt. 
 SCHEIBER - Leopold, M.D. (1914-2000) Dr. Leopold Scheiber, a physician, specializing in surgery and urology, was a native of Budapest, Hungary. He had practiced medicine in Budapest and for decades in New York. He died in Budapest on August 7, 2000, a few days after his arrival there on a v
 SCHWARTZ-Sy. The entire staff of the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis and the Buoniconti Fund join in mourning the passing of our dear friend and colleague, our Public Relations Legend, Sy Schwartz. Our sincere gratitude for his passion and tireless efforts in the advancement of our message 
 SCHWIMMER-Bertram. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died August 24, 2000 at age 90, in Los Angeles, CA. Survived by his loving wife of 60 years, Beatrice; his son and daughter-in-law, Arthur and Arlene; and grandchildren, Elinor and David. Lawyer, musician, golfer, wit, he was cherished by his fam
 SHARFF-Michael. Died August 24, at age 64 in Brooklyn, NY. Devoted owner of Camp Lindenmere in Tannersville, PA for 30 years. Devoted and loving son to Anne Druck. Also survived by his sister Fran Gurowitz and brother Marc Sharff and many lifelong friends. Memorial service to be held shortl
 SMITH-Gerald Morton. On September 1. Born January 17, 1918, to Samuel Jacob Smith and Sarah Zaslavsky, in Fall River, Mass. He grew up in Webster, Mass., was an accomplished orator and actor in high school, studied international relations at Harvard College ('39, cum laude) and later receiv
 Vice Admiral Harold G. Bowen Jr., who presided over the Navy's investigation into one of the most wrenching episodes in its history -- the seizure of the electronic surveillance ship Pueblo by North Korea -- died on Aug. 17 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 87. The son of an adm
 ALTMAN-David R. On August 30, 2000 in New York City. David loved life. Beyond all others, he made the everyday extraordinary. He found joy where others could not see it. He turned strangers into friends and friends into family. And then there is Floria. His wife, his life, of over 53 years.
 BLIER-Josephine. On September 3, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Julius; loving mother of Malcolm Blier and his wife Victoria, and Steven Blier and partner James Russell. Devoted grandmother of Samuel and Zachary; dear sister of Florence Horlick and Janice Schulman. Cherished aunt and cousin
 BOOKIS-John S. Passed away on September 2, 2000, at age 79. Survived by his wife Sophia, his children George, Mary-Kay, Susan and Joan. His brothers Gregory and Blaise, his sister Suzie, his grandchildren, his nephews and nieces. His courageous spirit will always live in our hearts. Friends
 BORN-Robert W. Cherished husband of Esther Born; devoted father of Rita and Fred Distenfeld, and Richard and Deborah Born, and loving grandfather of Michael, Caroline, Jennifer, Claire, and Max. We mourn the passing of our irreplaceable husband, father, and grandfather. He made each of our 
 CANDEE-Seymour R. ''Sy.'' A man of great courage and wisdom. His word was his bond, as was his reputation. He was a kind and loving husband to Peg, son Robert and Eileen, and grandsons Jason, Brian and Kevin, brother Morton. He graduated from St. John's University and was Captain of the soc
 CASTRO-Andres. Died on September 2, 2000. Born July 27, 1917, in Havana, Cuba. Founder of the theater company ''Las Mascaras.'' Graduated from the Senior Dramatic Workshop of the New School for Social Research, B.F.A. Emigrated to the U.S. in 1961. Director of the Senior Dramatic Workshop a
 COSTELLO-Terrence P. Of Monroe, NY, a retired Mailer for the New York Times for 40 years; on September 2, 2000. He was the former Chairman of Mailers Union Local #       
 GIDRO-FRANK-Lothar, M.D. The New York State Psychiatric Institute and the Department of Psychiatry at Columbia University join in mourning the passing of a dear colleague, Dr. Lothar GidroFrank. He started his career at the Institute in 1949 and was Clinical Director from 1973 to 1977. He w
 KRINSKY-Robert. Beloved husband of Thelma, adored by his children Mark and Karen, and his son-in-law Donald Sussman. ''Zayde'' cherished his grandchildren Joel, Kenny, David, and Lloyd. Dear brother of Rhoda Taffet. Honored and respected as an advocate by the autism community. Founder of GA
 LEFOR-Michael William. Of Storrs, CT, died Sunday, September 3, 2000, at Hartford Hospital after a brief illness. He is survived by his brother Guy Lefor of Storrs, CT, and several cousins. Born April 1, 1943, and a graduate in botany of Hobart College and the University of Connecticut, he 
 MINIFIE-Jonathan. 50. English teacher at Groton School. Died of a heart attack on August 30. Son of the Rev. Benjamin and Frances Minifie, formerly of Grace Church, NYC. Graduated from Williams College, Oxford University and Harvard University Graduate School. He is survived by his wife Mar
 MONTGOMERY-Robert H., Jr. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Robert H. Montgomery, Jr. Bob was the head of our Entertainment Department for many years and a member of the Paul, Weiss fam
 MORENO-James M. Beloved companion of Dorothie Strauss. Loving uncle. Friend to all. A site planner and landscape architect by trade, he assisted Robert Moses on the construction of the highways and byways of New York. Services at ''BoulevardRiverside Chapels,'' 1895 Flatbush Avenue (at Aven
 O'SULLIVAN-John J. Age 60, on September 1st. He received his Ph.D. in American History from Columbia University and has taught at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton, FL, since 1971. His most recent book was ''We Have Just Begun to Not Fight,'' about conscientious objectors during WWI
 PFLUG-John Rueger. Age 90, of Plandome, New York, on September 1, 2000. Devoted father of John, Jr. of Cold Spring Harbor, Jane Pflug of Manhattan, Melissa Pflug of Burlington, Vermont, and the late Pamela Pflug. Also survived by a sister, Helen MacKay of Locust Valley, a grandson, Jock Pfl
 ZIMMER-Georgia. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and benefactor Georgia Zimmer, beloved wife of Max J. Zimmer, who until his death served with distinction as Trustee. Deepest sympathy to Joel and Karen, Anita, Gary and Jill, and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Sc
 Robert H. Montgomery Jr., 77, a lawyer for prominent film, theater and art figures and the trustee of the Cole Porter Musical and Literary Property Trusts, died on Saturday at his home in Sag Harbor, N.Y.. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Henriette. His career at the Manhat
 ALTMAN-David R. On August 30, 2000 in New York City. David loved life. Beyond all others, he made the everyday extraordinary. He found joy where others could not see it. He turned strangers into friends and friends into family. And then there is Floria. His wife, his life, of over 53 years.
 BOOKIS-John S. Passed away on September 2, 2000, at age 79. Survived by his wife Sophia, his children George, Mary-Kay, Susan and Joan. His brothers Gregory and Blaise, his sister Suzie, his grandchildren, his nephews and nieces. His courageous spirit will always live in our hearts. Friends
 BORN-Robert W. Cherished husband of Esther Born; devoted father of Rita and Fred Distenfeld, and Richard and Deborah Born, and loving grandfather of Michael, Caroline, Jennifer, Claire, and Max. We mourn the passing of our irreplaceable husband, father, and grandfather. He made each of our 
 BRIGGS-Taylor Rastrick. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P., mourns with sorrow the September 1 passing of our dear friend, colleague, and former Chairman, Taylor Rastrick Briggs. An immensely gifted litigator, Taylor joined LeBoeuf in 1961, was made Partner in 1963 and served as Chairma
 CANDEE-Seymour R. ''Sy''. A man of great courage and wisdom. His word was his bond, as was his reputation. He was a kind and loving husband to Peg, sons Glenn and Robert and Eileen, and grandsons Jason, Brian and Kevin, and his brother Morton. He graduated from St. John's University and was
 FASMAN-Dennis N. Beloved husband of Barbara. Cherished father of Kenneth, Judy, Steven, Carol, Glen and Roger. Devoted grandfather to Jennifer, Anna, Matthew and Adam. Funeral at the New City Jewish Center, Old Schoolhouse Rd, New City, NY at 11 AM today. Contributions in his name to the Am
 FERRITER-Joseph F. Retired Securities Analyst and longtime resident of New York died Friday, September 1 in Alexandria, VA. following a lengthy illness. He was 89 years old. Mr. Ferriter was born in Brattleboro, VT, in 1910. Following service in the U.S. Army in World War II he worked for m
 GENGLER-Thomas Edmund. On September 1, 2000 of Malverne, N.Y. Devoted husband of Eleanor for 49 years and father of Tom (Mary), June (Jay), Bill, Jane (Kevin) and Barbara. Grandfather of Marie, Nancy, Tommy, Ed, Laura, Matt (Jaime), Joe, Robin, Kevin, Ryan, and George. Also survived by his 
 LANG-Martin. On September 4, 2000. Born January 28, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY. Martin was the devoted husband of Bertha Friedman Lang for 62 years, loving father to Judith Lang Zaimont, Doris Lang Kosloff and Robert David Lang and grandfather to Adam Lang Harris Kosloff, Daniel Max Lang Kosloff,
 LIPTON-Allen A. Died September 3, 2000. He was 83. He was born February 12, 1917, in Brooklyn, to Hyman and Mary Lipkowitz. He leaves his wife Dorothea (nee Glaser), son Leonard of Bethel, CT, daughters Linda Bergeron of Discovery Bay, CA, Lois Sheppard of Seal Beach, CA, his sister Sally K
 MEANY-Stephen J., S.J. Died of cancer Sunday, September 3 at Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, Bronx, NY. For the five years prior to his death, Fr. Meany, who recited on the campus of Fordham University, had conducted retreats for lay and religious throughout the Eastern United States and 
 MONTGOMERY-Robert H. Jr. The Board of Directors of AmSong, Inc. mourns the passing of our founding member and dear friend, Robert H. Montgomery, Jr. Bob's warmth, intelligence, integrity and dedication to songwriters and their families won him the love and respect of our entire membership. 
 NUSSENOW-Adolph Peter. On Sept. 3, 2000. Beloved husband of Marion. Devoted father of Dinah and his grandchildren, Daniel, Benjamin and Lea. We will never forget him. Funeral private.       
 PENNER-Marvin. Beloved husband of Ethel. Devoted father of Judith & son-in-law James Broach, and Amy and son-in-law John Walker. Cherished grandfather of Sara & Matthew Broach & Adam Walker. He was with the ILGWU for 30 years. Donations in his memory can be made to the Hospice Center of Nor
 PFLUG-John Rueger (Johnny). One of the last players from the golden age of polo in New York, died September 1,2000 He was 90 years old and lived in Plandome. N.Y. A star athlete at St. Paul's School in Garden City, N.Y. Mr. Pflug was offered a baseball contract by the Brooklyn Dodgers, but 
 ROITMAN-Leo. Born March 20, 1907 in Russia, to David and Sonya Roitman. Died on August 31 in Encinitas. Beloved husband of May (died 1946) and Ethel (died 1989). Beloved brother of Vera Spiegel and Claire Hotchner. Beloved father of Judy and David. Beloved grandfather of Ben Lombardo and Jo
 SCHMERER-Frederick, MD. On September 2, 2000. Beloved son, brother, uncle and great-uncle. He was a Major in the U.S. Army, a retired NYC police inspector and was on the staff of Montefiore Hospital. He will be deeply missed.       
 SONDERLING - Arthur, C.P.A. Died peacefully at home on September 2, 2000. Loving husband of Lillian, cherished father of Edward and Harlan, beloved father-in-law and grandfather. A gentleman and a lifelong New Yorker, born August 18, 1914, graduate of Dewitt Clinton High School and NYU, 193
 Clyde Sukeforth, the Brooklyn Dodger scout and manager who accompanied Jackie Robinson through two of the Hall of Fame player's milestones as the first African-American in modern baseball, died on Sunday at his home in Waldoboro, Me. He was 98. In 1945, when the major league teams h
 Lawrence Fellows, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times and later an editor at local newspapers in Connecticut, died on Saturday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Ruth. Mr. Fellows reported for The Times fr
 BEAUDINE-Frank R. Born December 20, 1923 in New York, passed away Sept. 2, 2000 in Plano, Texas. Frank was Chairman of Eastman & Beaudine, a Major Int'l Executive Recruiting Firm he cofounded in 1967. He was a pioneer in the retained search industry. Frank was a Chaminade and Notre Dame gra
 BERNSTEIN-Herbert & Marjorie K. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are saddened to learn of the passing of Herbert Bernstein and his wife, Majorie, in a car accident on August 19th. Mr Bernstein was the director of the Bronx Jewish Family Service of
 BRIGGS-Taylor R., Esq. The New York Law School community is deeply saddened by the death of Taylor R. Briggs, Esq., former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and a true friend of New York Law School. Taylor Briggs played a vital role in supporting the School's mission in legal education and 
 De JONG-Bastiaan. On Sept. 3, 2000 in Chatham, MA. Beloved husband of Jean. Devoted father of Alison, Jennifer, Martha and Elizabeth. Dear brother of Elizabeth van der Boon of The Netherlands. Memorial Service Thursday, September 14th at St. Christopher's Episcopal Church, Chatham, MA. at 1
 GOLD-Bernard. On Monday, September 4 at his home in New York. Bernard, an honest and gentle man, the strength of his family and friends. So loved by his wife Frederica, daughters Marianne Kaplan and Caroline, sonin-law David, grandchildren Phillip and Joseph, his sister Thelma Hurwitz and b
 HIRSCH-Steven J., 105. Died in San Francisco, September 2nd. Mr. Hirsch was born in New York City, January 25, 1895 and was a resident of New York for 101 years before moving to San Francisco to be with his family. He is survived by two daughters and their husbands, Barbara and John Rosston
 KINN-Phillip. The League Treatment Center mourns the loss of Phillip Kinn, Jewish Holocaust resistance fighter, born in Iwje, Poland. Through his great acts of courage and loyalty Phillip was relentless in saving family and friends. He fought in three armies against the Nazis, and as a resi
 LEPORE-Michael J., M.D. gifted clinician, internist, and educator, died at home on September 2, 2000. He received his M.D. with Honor in 1934 from the University of Rochester, served as Lt. Col in the Pacific 1942-46, and was director of the Gastroenterology Service at St. Vincent's Hospita
 LINCOLN-Peter G., Clinical psychologist in private practice in Manhattan and active member of the New York State Psychological Assn. Formerly with St. LukesRoosevelt Hospital Center and Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy. Graduate of Princeton University, Class of 1965, and recipient of a 
 LOCKE-Emanuel. Of Riverdale, NY. Died on September 3 at age 95. Husband, brother, father, grandfather, great - grandfather and uncle. He is survived by his wife, Ethel; by his sister Sarah Kapner of Flushing, New York; by his son Gordon & his wife, Karen, of New Rochelle, NY, with their son
 MANNING-William F., Rev., CSP. On September 4, 2000 in New York at age 83. Born in Richmond Hill, Long Island, NY, he was ordained a Paulist priest on January 25, 1944. Fr. Manning spent seven years in mission work in Minnesota and Tennessee. His perceptive counseling talents showed themsel
 MEANY-Rev. Stephen James, S.J. Survived by his loving sisters, Patricia Rand, Joanne Handy and Mary Ann Santos. Reposing at the Jesuit Community Chapel at Murray-Weigal Hall, 515 East Fordham Road, Bronx, on Wednesday, 7-9 PM, and Thursday, 3-5 PM. Mass of Christian Burial will take place i
 MONTGOMERY-Robert H. Jr. The Vassar College Board of Trustees honors the life of its esteemed trustee Robert H. Montgomery, Jr. He served Vassar with indefatigable energy for the past decade, bringing keen intelligence, balance of thought, and irrestible humor to our work. We will remember 
 MURRAY-Matthew J. September 4, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Rita C. Murray. Devoted father of Thomas M. Murray, Rita V. Meyer, Matthew J. Murray, Peter E. Murray, Christopher K. Murray and Vincent P. Murray. Loving brother of Elizabeth Fontaine, Thomas Murray and Mary Martin. Cherished
 PENNER-Marvin. With great sadness, we mourn the loss of the father of our partner, Judith P. Broach. He was a dedicated accountant & an invaluable advisor to the firm, and a dear friend of us all. We will miss his wisdom, wit, generosity and kindness. Our heartfelt sympathies to Judy, her m
 PRIVITERA-Msgr. Santi J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of St. Bernadette's Church, 8201 13th Ave., Brooklyn, on September 4. Reposing at Torregrossa Funeral Home, 1305 79th St., Brooklyn, Wednesday, September 6, from 2 to 5 p.m. Mass of Transferral at St
 PRIVITERA-Rev. Monsignor Santi Joseph. On September 4, 2000. Born on September 21, 1903 in Sciacca, Agrigento, Sicily, Italy. Son of the late Antonio and Marina Russo. He was ordained a priest on April 2, 1927 and was conferred with the title of Monsignor in 1961. He was Pastor Emeritus of 
 ROMILLY-Christopher James K. Beloved husband of Linda Jean Abbey, and inspirational friend to those who knew and loved him, Christopher James Kenworthy Romilly passed away September 5, 2000 after a long and brave battle with cancer. Chris will be remembered for his giant heart, his broad in
 SMITH-Gerald Morton. It is with sorrow that we note the passing of Gerald Morton Smith, a longtime partner of our predecessor firm Gottesman Wolgel Smith and Secunda who enriched the law and lives of those who labored with and learned from him. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife, Lo
 ZEIFER-Dr. Herman. On September 5, 2000 of Chappaqua, New York. Beloved husband of Dorothy Livingston Zeifer. Loving father of Dr. Barbara Zeifer Luis and F. Ellen Zeifer Funk. Devoted grandfather of Alexander John Funk and Christopher Alan Funk. Private funeral. In lieu of flowers, donatio
 Abdul Haris Nasution, a soldier and politician who fought for Indonesia's independence from the Netherlands and may have missed a chance to lead his nation, died today in a Jakarta hospital. He was 81 and had been in a coma since a recent stroke. General Nasution (pronounced na-SU-t
 George Musso, a Hall of Fame lineman and captain of the Chicago Bears when they ruled professional football before and during World War II, died Tuesday in Edwardsville, Ill. He was 90. Musso, called Moose, played for the Bears from 1933 to 1944, when they were known as the Monsters
 John Alexander Simpson, a nuclear physicist and astrophysicist whose instruments have been sending data back from space for nearly 40 years, died on Aug. 31 in Chicago. He was 83 and lived in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago. The cause was complications after open heart surgery
 APPEL-Alfred. Of New York City, on September 6, 2000 in his 95th year. Beloved husband of Beatrice with whom he celebrated their 69th wedding anniversary on Sunday, September 3rd. A graduate of Townsend Harris High School at age 15, Cornell University, Class of 1926, Cornell Law School, Cla
 BENNETT-Stewart. Died on September 3, 2000 in Dallas, TX after a long illness. Born January 6, 1927 Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Harvard College and the Harvard Business School. Until he became ill some years ago Mr. Bennett was engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. He is su
 EIMICKE-Victor W. The Trustees and Staff of the National Bible Association express a profound sense of loss and sorrow upon the death of Dr. Victor W. Eimicke, their colleague and friend. Dr. Eimicke began his relationship with the Association as a volunteer in 1969. Elected to the Board of
 FISCHER-Norman. Beloved father of Katy and Bradley Fischer. Beloved brother of Allan Fischer. Beloved cousin of Linda Hacker, Laura Lawrence, Liza Lawrence, Arnold Weiss and Kenneth Weiss. He was a great friend to all who knew him. We celebrate his life and mourn his death. Services ''The R
 GOLD-Bernard. The partners, senior councel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the passing of our retired partner and dear friend Bernie, whose wisdom and warmth we will always remember. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Frederica; daughters Marianne Kaplan and C
 HUGHES-Thomas Leland. 19242000. He graduated from Yale College and Yale Law School and served in WWII in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific. He revalidated his law degree in Venezuela, where he spent 45 years, and headed one of the prominent, originally American law firms. He was dedicated to his
 JOHNSON-James Ford, 3rd. 82, of Somers, NY, formerly of Manhattan, died on September 4, 2000. Graduate of the Hill School and Yale University. He served as a captain in the U.S. Army in WW II, seeing action on Omaha Beach. He was a marketing executive for Texaco and Caltex, where he spent s
 LEPORE-Michael J., M.D. The Medical Staff of St. Vincent's Hospital mourns with sorrow the passing of a dear friend, mentor and esteemed colleague. Dr. Lepore joined our faculty in 1966 as Chief of the Section of Gastroenterology and Director of the Upjohn GI Unit. Dr. Lepore's research and
 LOCKE-Emanuel. Of Riverdale, NY. Died on September 3 at age 95. Husband, brother, father, grandfather, great - grandfather and uncle. He is survived by his wife, Ethel; by his sister Sarah Kapner of Flushing, New York; by his son Gordon & his wife, Karen, of New Rochelle, NY, with their son
 RHEA-Alexander Dodson, III. Mr. Rhea of New York City and The Greenbrier, West Virginia, died in New York City Friday, September 1, 2000. He was born in Whitney, Texas. He is survived by his wife, Suzanne Menocal Rhea. He is also survived by his sister, Dorothy Rhea of Fort Worth, Texas. Mr
 SCHORR-Max. Beloved Palm Beach and former New York City attorney, 92, died Tuesday afternoon in Palm Beach from complications of prostate cancer. A counsel at Edwards & Angell, Max was one of Florida's oldest practicing attorneys. A graduate of Brooklyn Law School, he practiced from the ear
 WELSH-Vernon M., 92. Of Old Lyme, CT, died peacefully at his home on September 4, 2000. Mr. Welsh, formerly of Ridgefield, CT, was a resident of Old Lyme for many years. He served as chairman of the Old Lyme Historic District Commission and his home on Lyme Street is on the National Registe
 Dr. C. Philip Wilson, an expert in the treatment of eating disorders and other severe psychosomatic problems, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was heart disease, said his son Scott, a psychiatrist. While a resident in psychiatry at Columbia-Pres
 David R. Altman, a fashion advertising executive whose tag lines did for bolts of fabric what tigers in tanks had done for gasoline, died on Aug. 30 in New York. He was 85. The cause was complications of lymphoma, said his wife, Floria V. Lasky. As chairman of Altman, Stolle
 Martin Lang, an engineer and water pollution expert who was a New York City commissioner in the Lindsay and Beame administrations, died Monday at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y., where he lived. He was 85. Trained as an environmental engineer and chemist, he worked for the city for four 
 8IAMOND-Eugene B. September 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Louise for 56 years. Cherished father of Margery and Michael Katz, and Beth and Mark Feldman. Devoted grandfather of Erica and Betsy. Loving brother of Melvin. His family and friends will miss his generosity, compassion and wisdom. Gra
 APPEL-Alfred. Of New York City, on September 6, 2000 in his 95th year. Beloved husband of Beatrice with whom he celebrated their 69th wedding anniversary on Sunday, September 3rd. A graduate of Townsend Harris High School at age 15, Cornell University, Class of 1926, Cornell Law School, Cla
 BEAUTYMAN-William, M.D. Of Blue Bell, PA and Winter Harbor, ME, died on September 5, 2000, of prostate cancer. Born in Northumberland, England on January 4, 1920, he took top honors at Christ College, Cambridge University and received medical training at University College and St. Bartholom
 BENNETT-Stewart. Died on September 3, 2000 in Dallas, TX after a long illness. Born January 6, 1927 Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Harvard College and the Harvard Business School. Until he became ill some years ago Mr. Bennett was engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. He is su
 BERKUN-Mordecai, MD. We note with sorrow, the death of our friend and colleague. Dr. Berkun was a distinguished member of the Department of Medicine who served actively at North Shore University Hospital for more than three decades. His patients and colleagues will remember him with respect
 BERKUN-Mordecai A., MD. A cardiologist and independent businessman. Died on Wednesday, September 6, on Long Island. He was 73 and lived in Great Neck, NY. Loving husband of his late wife Judy. Devoted father of Alicia and Geza, Edward and Joanne, Leslie and Jose, Margarita, Barry and Leslie
 BERNSTEIN-Felix I. ''Phillie''. On September 6, 2000. Loving and beloved husband of Nikki for more than 57 years. Devoted father of Mitchell and Steve. Brother of Sylvia and the late Sidney and Charles. Proudly served his country as a pilot in the United States Army Air Corps during World W
 HARTMAN-Stephen C., 58. Of West Orange, NJ, formerly of Randolph, NJ, suddenly on September 5, 2000. Loving father to Dana, Abigail and Nedda and lifetime friend to former wife Anne Hartman. Mr. Hartman is also survived by his brother Roger of Mill Valley, CA & uncle Ralph Spritzer of Tempe
 HUTTON-Thomas J. Died of cancer in Santa Barbara, CA on August 23, 2000 after a long lingering illness. After graduating from The Hill School in 1960, he attended Union College for two years. He enlisted in the U.S. Marines and served two years in the Reserves. He lived abroad for four year
 JOHNSON-James Ford, 3rd. 82, of Somers, NY, formerly of Manhattan, died on September 4, 2000. Graduate of the Hill School and Yale University. He served as a captain in the U.S. Army in WW II, seeing action on Omaha Beach. He was a marketing executive for Texaco and Caltex, where he spent s
 KRAMER-Norman M. Passed away at age 87 on September 6. Devoted husband of Bernice, loving father of Joan Tucker and father-in-law of Barry Tucker , adoring grandfather of Amy Tucker Meltzer (Jonathan) and Robert Scott Tucker. Great-grandfather of Alexa and Matthew Meltzer and devoted brothe
 KULICK-Dr. Lee. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi       
 MANNING-Arthur A. Died September 4, 2000 after a courageous battle with diabetic complications. Arthur served as a forensic detective in the New York City police department and retired with honors approximately 15 years ago. As a youth, he rose through the ranks of the Boy Scouts serving as
 ROBINSON-Roger ''Robbie'' Wolcott, age 83, who retired after thirty-seven years as a Special Agent and Supervisor of the FBI, died on August 18th of injuries sustained as a passenger in an automobile accident. He lived in Briarcliff Manor, New York. Roger graduated from Duke University and 
 ROSENBERG-Philip. Died on September 4, 2000, at age 79. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of son, Eric, and his wife, Linda, son, Douglas, and daughter, Amy. Loving grandfather of Kyle. Dear brother and cherished uncle and grand-uncle of Diane and Nicole. He was a graduate of New Yo
 STEIN-Martin. Of Lake McGregor Mahopac, NY. Survived by his wife Renee, daughter Deborah and her husband Roger, grandchildren David and Rachel, mother Mary Barishansky and brothers Arnold and Richard. Also survived by his loving nephews and greatnieces. Services 11 AM, Friday at King David 
 Theodore L. Deglin, a longtime public relations executive, died in Manhattan on Aug. 15. He was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Deglin, known as Ted, was Madison Square Garden's public relations director from 1935 until he entered the Army in 1942. He became a colon
 Adrian P. Burke, a former associate judge of New York State's highest court who was also New York City corporation counsel, died last Sunday at his retirement home in Lauderhill, Fla. A former resident of Manhattan, he was 95. Judge Burke was the city's chief lawyer twice, though br
 David A. Charny, a Harvard Law School professor who was an expert on employment and corporate law and who advised student demonstrators, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 44. He died after a short illness, said Michael J. Chmura, the law school's news director. 
 Edward Anhalt, a prolific Academy Award-winning screenwriter best known for his work on the films ''Becket'' and ''Jeremiah Johnson,'' died on Sunday at his home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 86. A native of New York and a graduate of Columbia University, Mr. Anhalt worked as 
 George Edmund Sandell, a versatile viola and violin player, teacher and inventor, died on Aug. 26 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Santa Monica. Born in Malmo, Sweden, Mr. Sandell grew up in Denver and graduated from Denver University in 1933 with a bachelor's degree i
 Joseph Louis Marino, a lawyer and legal educator, died on Sept. 1 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 85. Mr. Marino founded a popular review course for the New York State bar examination in the 1940's. In 1964, he ran unsuccessfully as the Democratic candidate for Congress
 BERKUN-Mordecai A., MD. A cardiologist and independent businessman. Died on Wednesday, September 6, on Long Island. He was 73 and lived in Great Neck, NY. Loving husband of his late wife Judy. Devoted father of Alicia and Geza, Edward and Joanne, Leslie and Jose, Margarita, Barry and Leslie
 DIAMOND-Eugene B. September 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Louise for 56 years. Cherished father of Margery and Michael Katz, and Beth and Mark Feldman. Devoted grandfather of Erica and Betsy. Loving brother of Melvin. His family and friends will miss his generosity, compassion and wisdom.    
 KRAMER-Norman. The members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their past President and former member, and extend their sympathy to his family. Leonard Danon, President       
 LEMLE-Leo K. On September 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Trude. Loving father of Laura and Robert. Dear father-in-law of Grant and Roni. Devoted grandfather of Zach, Joanna, Ariel, David and Noah. He will be deeply missed and live in our hearts forever. Service Sunday, 1:15PM at ''The Riversid
 SCHWARTZ-Norman. The Chamber of Commerce of Washington Heights/Inwood is saddened by the passing of Board Member, Norman Schwartz. Our condolences to his wife, Hilda, and family.       
 WASSERMAN-Herbert, 69. Died September 8, 2000 at his home in Tyringham, MA., after a two year battle with colon cancer. Born on July 30, 1931, he graduated from Harvard College & Harvard Law School. Lawyer, producer/impresario, and business executive, he is survived by his wife of 44 years,
 Rebert H. Harris, the lead singer for the Soul Stirrers, whose style was the fountainhead for generations of gospel and soul singers, died on Sept. 3 in Chicago. He was 84 and lived in Chicago. Mr. Harris had a pure, high tenor voice that he used for syncopated moans and slurs and l
 Bob Cummins, who ran the small jazz record label India Navigation, which documented much of the avant-garde loft-jazz scene that blossomed in Manhattan during the 70's and 80's in underused buildings  downtown, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was prost
 Donald Gallup, the Yale literary bibliographer who in 1968 confirmed the discovery of the long-lost manuscript of T. S. Eliot's ''Waste Land,'' died in Branford, Conn., on Wednesday. He was 87. Mr. Gallup spent more than 30 years as a curator in the Yale Collection of American Liter
 BARNES-Daniel. Of Rye, NY, and Stony Creek, CT. Beloved father of Caroline Henningsen of Rye, NY, David Barnes of Boulder, CO, and Melissa Janssen of Darien, CT. War hero, avid pilot, brilliant engineer and short order cook for his five grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, donations may be ma
 BECKER-Arnold. 68, died September 8, 2000. Devoted son of Yetta and his late father Wolf, husband of Margaret, father of John and stepfather of Denise and Sara. Grandfather of Kai and Harry. We will remember him with love. Services today, 10:30 AM, at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 Seco
 BERKUN-Mordecai A., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleage and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secretary 
 CHANG-David Jih-Yuan. With great sadness, we announce the passing of David Jih-Yuan Chang on September 7, 2000, in NYC after a brief illness. An accomplished civil engineer, David designed many distinguished projects including the Crystal Cathedral in California, the majestic tented roof of
 CHITTENDEN-George H. In Branford, CT, September 7, of 155 Buffalo Bay, Madison, CT, formerly of Rye, NY. Husband of Sarah Parker Chittenden and the late Laura Carey Chittenden. Retired international banker, having served with J.P. Morgan for many years. He was a Yale University graduate of 
 De PROSPO-Dr. Chris J., 90, pioneer in the field of special education died September 7, 2000 in Maryland. Dr. De Prospo rose through the New York City public education system to become full professor and department chair of special education at The City University of New York and, later, at
 DEWAR-Robert E. Age 7 7, died peacefully at home on September 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Nancy. Loving father of Robert and his wife, Alison, Jane and John. Dearly loved grandfather of Bessie and Charlotte. Brother of Dale Dewar. Memorial service at Kirk in the Hills, 1340 W. Long Lake Roa
 GORDON-Lawrence. Born July 26, 1922, died September 8, 2000, of New York and Palm Beach, following a courageous battle with Alzheimer's and cancer. He was the devoted son of the late Harry and Etta Gordon and brother to Seymour. Lawrence is survived by his loving wife Janet and their childr
 LEMLE-Leo K. On Sep tember 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Trude. Loving father of Laura and Robert. Dear father-in-law of Grant and Roni. Devoted grandfather of Zach, Joanna, Ariel, David and Noah. He will be deeply missed and live in our hearts forever. Service Sunday, 1:15PM at ''The Riversi
 LEPORE-Michael J., M. D. The Gastroenterology Dept. of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital was saddened to hear of the loss of Dr. Michael Lepore, the former Chief of Gastroenterology at Roosevelt Hospital (1962-1966). He was an outstanding educator and an inspiration to many of our trainees and 
 LOUKS-A. Forrest. Of St. Croix, Virgin Islands, formerly of Fairfield, CT, died at Emory Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia, on August 22. He was the beloved husband of Katharine J. Ward and devoted father of Dr. Carolyn Bondy of Bethesda, MD., and grandfather to Eric and Peter Bondy. He is also 
 MAUKSCH-George S. On August 20, 2000, died suddenly of a heart attack while vacationing in the south of France. He would have turned 81 on August 31. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Mary, his daughters Judith and Jane, their husbands Richard Cotter and Bill Perri, and four grandchil
 O'CONNOR-Robert K. Died on August 22, 2000, in Vero Beach, FL, after a long illness. Born January 13, 1922, in Holyoke, MA, he was a graduate of Amherst College and NYU School of Business. During WWII he was a Navy pilot. After a long career as a stockbroker and securities analyst he retire
 SCHORR-Max. Beloved Palm Beach and former New York City attorney, 92, died Tuesday afternoon in Palm Beach from complications of prostate cancer. A counsel at Edwards & Angell, Max was one of Florida's oldest practicing attorneys. A graduate of Brooklyn Law School, he practiced from the ear
 TAVCAR-Lawrence R., 64. A longtime senior public relations executive who was an expert in preparing corporate annual reports, died on August 24 at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital, near his home in Stamford. He managed or was involved in the production of 80 annual reports, sometimes drafting the
 WASSERMAN-Herbert, 69. Died September 8, 2000 at his home in Tyringham, MA., after a two year battle with colon cancer. Born on July 30, 1931, he graduated from Harvard College & Harvard Law School. Lawyer, producer/impresario, and business executive, he is survived by his wife of 44 years,
 ZAYAS-Richard. Of Brooklyn Heights, NY, left this world on September 8. A graduate of Midwood High School, Brooklyn, and Harvard College, he also attended Harvard Business School and was a management consultant. Formerly served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Empire State Pride
 William A. Lubbers, the National Labor Relations Board's general counsel from 1979 to 1984, died on Aug. 26. He was 75 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was an abdominal aortic aneurysm he suffered at his home, his son Jeffrey said. Mr. Lubbers was a lawyer with the labor
 CARBONE-Pietro J. Late of New York City's Village String Shop. Died September 6, in Miami. He made and restored violins and guitars, was in the center of the folk movement and inspired the young. He started a union for women electricians.       
 DIAMOND-Eugene B. New York University's Stern School of Business mourns the passing of a member of the Commerce Class of 1941, Eugene B. Diamond at age 79 on September 7, 2000, in Media, Pennsylvania. A loyal and supportive alumni, we remember his entrepreneurial spirit and generosity to th
 EVENTOFF-Hyman. Survived by two daughters, Doreen Hurwitz and Barbara Gardner, four grandchildren, Amy Weisman, Shari Sollender, Gary Young and Jodi Young, three great-grandchildren, Jared, Julia, Paige, brother Al Eventoff, sister Rose Hellman and cherished companion Beverly Kahn and her l
 GORDON-Lawrence. Born July 26, 1922, died September 8, 2000, of New York and Palm Beach, following a courageous battle with Alzheimer's and cancer. He was the devoted son of the late Harry and Etta Gordon and brother to Seymour. Lawrence is survived by his loving wife Janet and their childr
 HOGEN-Charles Robert, 92. Died on July 16 at his home in Lenox, Massachusetts. His surviving children are Timothy Hogen of New York City, Sherill Covian of Shelburne Falls, MA, Robin Hogen of Westport, CT, Lyn Mason of Seattle, Washington, and Jackson Hogen of Newbury, MA. Charles was born 
 JARCHO-Saul, MD. On September 10, 2000. Survived by his wife, Irma S., his sons, Tom and Andrew, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Also survived by his sister, Grace J. Ross and many nephews and nieces. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 
 REDSTON-Dr. Robert. September 9, 2000. Age 82. Revered physician. Beloved husband to Leona for 57 years. Loving father to Terry Cohen and Audrey Iselin. Caring father-in-law to Norman Cohen and David Iselin. Doting grandfather to Abby, Noah, Josh, Alex, Leora, Mali and Ilan. His memory will
 SAPERSTONE-Bert. The Junior League of Brooklyn School for Special Children records with sorrow the passing of our dear loving friend and member. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Phoebe and their children. Beverly Weston, President Marcia Winikoff, Chairperson       
 TUROBINER-Alice. For the past 30 years our families have shared the Simchas and good times as well as the difficult ones. We would be remiss if we didn't send this final farewell to an elegant, regal woman whose Mitzvot and charity and philanthropic deeds were done in a quiet, yet legendary
 WALSH-James P. Born on April 12, 1929, James P. Walsh passed away on Saturday, September 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Katherine (Dawida) Walsh; devoted father of Kathleen and Jack Stanley, Janet and George Massie, and Caroline Walsh and George Rosenberg; loving grandfather of Jack, Paul, Lar
 Robert E. Dewar, the former chairman and chief executive of the Kmart Corporation, who led the company's huge expansion of retail stores nationwide, died at his home on Thursday. He was 77 and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. The cause of death was complications from colon cancer, s
 David Elliott Bell, who was President John F. Kennedy's director of the Bureau of the Budget and then his administrator of the Agency for International Development, died on Wednesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 81. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Susan Bell.   
 BECKER-John M. Of Mamaroneck, NY on September 10, 2000. Beloved husband of Alice, devoted father of Scott and Robin. Loving grandfather of Meghan Jerrild. Memorial service Saturday, September 16 at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, Mamaroneck, NY at 11 o'clock AM. Contributions in his memory to 
 BURKE-Honorable Adrian P., The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Hon. Adrian P. Burke, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., H
 FLEISCHMANN-Charles Foote. On September 4, 2000 in Fairfield, CT. Mr. Fleischmann was born in 1916 in New York City, the son of Charles Maximilian Fleischmann and Alice Dumont Foote. He graduated in 1935 from St. George's School and immediately began a career in business which included posi
 GIBBONS-Michael J., Jr. On September 10, 2000, of Staten Island, N.Y., formerly of Rockville Centre, N.Y. Beloved son of Maureen (nee Gallagher) and Michael J. Dear brother of F. Kelly (Jeanine), Theresa A. (Alexander Furman), Justin P. (Melissa), Ashley C. and Trevor B. Gibbons. Loving unc
 JARCHO-Saul, MD. On September 10, 2000. Survived by his wife, Irma S., his sons, Tom and Andrew, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Also survived by his sister, Grace J. Ross and many nephews and nieces. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 
 KENNY-Eugene E. Died at the age of 86 on September 9, 2000 at his home in Manhasset, NY. Gene was born in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn. Loving husband of Ursula. Cherished father of Constance, Eugene and Michael. Dear brother of Margaret Butler. He graduated Manhattan College in 1937. G
 LEMLE-Leo. The Trustees, Museum Council and Staff of The Jewish Museum are deeply saddened by the passing of a longtime friend, generous supporter and member of the Museum Council, Leo Lemle. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Gertrude, an active member of the Volunteer Associa
 LERMAN-Irving ''Lefty''. Age 83. Of Merrick, N.Y. and Fort Lauderdale, FL. died Sunday, September 10, 2000. Beloved and devoted husband to Anne for 60 years. Cherished father of Ilene Shotland and Sidney Lerman. Loving father-inlaw to Carole. Adored grandfather of Michelle and Bill Christia
 MULDOON-Thomas W. The leadership of Continuum Health Partners, Inc., and the staffs of its partner institutions express their sympathies over the passing of Thomas W. Muldoon, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague Thomas Muldoon, MD. To Tom, his family, and all his father's loved 
 MURPHY-Walter J. The Board of Directors and Staff of The National Counsel on Alcholism and Drug Dependence, Inc, mourn the passing of Walter Murphy, a former Executive Director, and extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Debbie, and family. Walter dedicated his later life to fighting th
 ROBBINS-Guy, M.D. On Sept. 9, 2000. He was widower of Louise, father of Kirk, Kathy and Richard, grandfather of Holly, Clifford and Vivian. He devoted his medical career to the treatment and cure of breast cancer. A former chief of the Breast Service at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, and consult
 SINGER-Bernard E. On September 10, 2000. Amongst his many accomplishments in the field of law and his humanitarian efforts, he was past President of B'nai B'rith Harrison chapter. Devoted husband of Rose. Beloved father of Henry and Amy Singer, Elizabeth and Dennis Hevey, Margery and Steven
 WEISS-Sidney Matthew. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Sidney Matthew Weiss, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who 
 WHYTE-Donald. The New York Philharmonic notes with grief and sadness the death of Donald Whyte, a deeply valued member of the Philharmonic's violin section since 1972. Mr. Whyte's early teachers were Alexander Whyte and Elman Lowe. Prior to joining the Orchestra, Mr. Whyte attended the Univ
 Seybourn H. Lynne, the federal judge who in 1963 prohibited Gov. George C. Wallace from barring two black students from attending the University of Alabama, died on Sunday in Birmingham. He was 93 and was the longest serving active judge on the federal bench. ''The governor of a sov
 Lt.Gen. William W. Quinn, an intelligence officer during World War II and an infantry commander in the Korean conflict, died today at Walter Reed Army Hospital. He was 92. In more than 30 years in the military, General Quinn held a variety of senior posts. As an intelligence
 Dr. Herbert Friedman, a pioneer in X-ray astronomy who received some of the country's top scientific honors over a 60-year career, died on Saturday. He was 84 and lived in Arlington, Va. A prolific scientist who published some 300 papers, Dr. Friedman conducted his earliest 
 Joseph H. Lewis, whose gritty, fast-paced low-budget films so transcended the conventions of the B-movie that filmmakers and screenwriters like Martin Scorsese, Peter Bogdanovich and Jay Cocks were moved to elevate him to the pantheon of auteurs, died on Aug. 30. He was 93 and lived in Mari
 Malcolm K. Hughes, a former editor in chief of United Press International, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 66. Mr. Hughes, known as Mike, had stomach cancer, U.P.I. reported. Born of British parents in India, he served in the Royal Air Force and was hired by what is 
 BEAUSEIGNEUR-Jay. On August 20th. Survivors are his wife Ursula, sister Bette, three nephews and a niece. A graduate of the Univ. of VT, he was a PanAm spokesman for 18 yrs; and later became Assist Editor and Correspondent for Hearst's NY bureau. A memorial Mass is scheduled for September 1
 COOPER-Irwin. Age 74, of Fair Lawn, NJ on September 11, 2000. Practicing certified public accountant and partner at Kutell and Cooper in New York City for 42 years. Survived by his wife Joan, daughters Sherry and Iris, son William, brother Sidney and sister Vivian. Services are private. Fam
 FORD-Norbert Martin. Died unexpectedly in Dublin on Sunday, Sept. 10, 2000. Dearly beloved husband of Ludlow. Father of Andrew and Carol and grandfather of Jared, Martin, Robert, Geoffrey and Anne. Mr. Ford was a businessman who designed and manufactured mens and womens apparel. He was an I
 HORDYK-John Gerard. Of Armonk, NY, died on September 8, 2000. He is survived by his wife Catherine Marie (nee Brown). Also survived by his daughter Avril A. Dannenbaum. For information call Cassidy Flynn Funeral Home, Mt. Kisco, NY, 914-666-4840.       
 JACOBS-Albert, 87, died September 7,2000 in Atlanta, where he had resided for the past 17 years. Previously of New York and New Jersey. In the furniture business for over 50 years before his retirement. Beloved and devoted husband of Miriam Wernick Jacobs, father of Drs. Marcia Jacobs (Atla
 JARCHO-Saul, MD. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of this highly-esteemed physician-historian whose career with Mount Sinai covered over half a century. Dr. Jarcho joined Mount S
 PINCHBECK-Peter Gerald. Died in his home on September 8, 2000. A painter, father, Professor at Manhattan Community College, member of The American Abstract Artists Association. His son Daniel will never forget his great and gentle spirit.       
 PITT-William H. Philanthropist and real estate magnate of Greenwich, CT., and Palm Beach, FL, died on September 9 following a brief illness. The beloved husband of Pauline Baker Pitt. He was predeceased by his first wife, Theodora Ward Pitt and his son William H. Pitt III. He was the stepfa
 PLESSER-Morton, 75. On September 12. We will miss his love of life, wonderful sense of humor, generosity of spirit, and inspiring loyalty to his wife and family. Survived by his devoted wife of fifty years, Frances, his cherished children, Bruce, Amy, Fredda, and their loved ones, seven gra
 SAMUELS-Leon. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Leon Samuels. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Sandy, and his entire family. Len Shendell, President Judith Tarter, Secretary       
 SNIDER-Sam. The Malverne Jewish Center mourns the passing of Sam Snider, longtime member and friend. Condolences to his wife Rhoda and children Barry and Joan. Cecile F. Vinik, President Moshe Berger, Rabbi SNIDER-Samuel. On September 12, 2000. Beloved husband of Rhoda. Devoted fath
 STEEG-Paul S. On September 12, 2000, three weeks before his 97th birthday and after 64 years of marriage to his beloved Margaret. Born Karlsruhe, Germany October 3, 1903. Father of Dr. Carl Steeg (Rhonda) and Dr. Frank Steeg (Maralyn), grandfather of Jennifer, Julie, Jason (Stacey) and Debo
 WEISS-Eugene F. Passed away September 11, 2000 in his 94th year. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn B. Devoted father of Bruce, Joshua and Doris. Loving grandfather of Charles, Rodney, Andrew, Meredith, Stephanie and Matthew and great-grandfather of Jaden. Cherished brother of Milton. Servi
 Dr. William A. Nierenberg, a physicist with a passion for the ocean who spent five decades striving to mesh science, technology and policy as an adviser to presidents, military agencies and NATO, died Sunday at his home in San Diego. He was 81. The cause was cancer, according to a s
 Donald Whyte, a violinist in the New York Philharmonic, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. The cause was complications after surgery, said Eric Latzky, a spokesman for the Philharmonic. Mr. Whyte was born
 Konrad Kujau, a raffish German swindler who sold 60 volumes of forged ''Hitler diaries'' to a German magazine for $4.8 million, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Stuttgart, Germany. He was 62. The cause was stomach cancer, a family member said. Mr. Kujau's bogus handiwork, de
 AMES-James Barr. Of Lincoln, Massachusetts. On September 8, 2000 at age 89. Distinguished lawyer with the Boston firm of Ropes & Gray, president of the Boston Atheneaum, treasurer of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, and president of the Massachusetts Historical Society. Survived by his wife 
 CASAMASSIMA-Emanuel J. of Old Brookville, formerly of New Rochelle and Manhattan on September 12th, in his 80th year. Beloved husband of Margaret (nee) Rella. Cherished father of Matthew, Gene and the late Frances and Emanuel. Dear father-in-law of Carole, Ellen and Frank. Survived by his b
 COHEN-Edward Carey II, late of Greenwich Village passed from us Sept. 12 at 77, one week shy of his 78th birthday. Noted Creative Dir. for Reply-O-Letter, avid photographer and bon vivant, he will be sorely missed by his many friends; his cousins, Chris Harter and Harriet Venus; his nephew 
 DeGRATTO-Joan. The Continuum Health Partners family is saddened over the passing of Joan DeGratto, beloved mother of our friend and colleague, Frank DeGratto, Corporate Vice President for Patient Accounts. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Frank, his family and loved ones. Peter A. 
 FORBES-Mark. One of a kind. His passion for theatre, friends and life is forever. Died Sept 11.       
 GRONNINGSATER - Arne. The trustees, faculty and administration of Riverdale Country School extend their deepest sympathies to the children of Arne Gronningsater, who passed away on August 30, in Westport, NY. Beloved teacher and friend to generations of students, his spirit remains at River
 JACOBS-Albert, 87, died September 7,2000 in Atlanta, where he had resided for the past 17 years. Previously of New York and New Jersey. In the furniture business for over 50 years before his retirement. Beloved and devoted husband of Miriam Wernick Jacobs, father of Drs. Marcia Jacobs (Atla
 JARCHO-Saul, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing colleague and mentor. Dr Jarcho came to Mount Sinai as an intern in 1931 and served the institution and its patients for more than 50 years. A highly respected schola
 KLEIN-Jerome H. Age 84, of Fair Lawn, NJ, on September 12, 2000. Retired Social Studies Teacher at George Washington High School in New York City. Survived by his daughters Fredda Sacharow and Deborah Klein Batelli, brothers Abraham and Marvin, and grandchildren Rachel, Leah and Joshua. Ser
 MANDABLE-John E. (Jack) 1922-2000. On Wednesday, September 6, 2000, at Hospice of Northern Virginia, Arlington, VA. Jack Mandable, dearly beloved husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy Rodriguez Mandable; a son, J. Burk Mandable, and a daught
 MOSS-Irving M., Esq. Former partner at Richenthal, Abrams and Moss. Beloved brother of Rashie Flax, Esther Fuss and Shirley Mangel and the late Harry, David, Julius and Louis Moss and Beatrice Solodkin. Cherished uncle of many nieces and nephews. Services on Thursday 11:30 AM at ''The River
 PLESSER-Morton, 75. On September 12. We'll miss his love of life. Services Thursday, 11:30AM, Boulevard Riverside, Hewlett, NY.       
 PREISS-Pearl. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Pearl Preiss, beloved mother of Byron Preiss. We extend our deepest condolences to Byron and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 ROBBINS-Guy MD. The Officers and Members of The New York Metropolitan Breast Cancer Group Inc. express deep sorrow at the passing of our Founding Member and First President, Dr. Guy Robbins. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Bonnie Reichman, MD, President Alexander Swistel, M
 SAMUELS-Leon. Of natural causes, of Delray Beach, Florida formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Age 82. Loving husband of Sandy. Devoted father of Marilyn (Hobart), Carol and David (Dorianne). Beloved grandfather of Robert, Rebecca, Leslie (Josh), Sasha, Jenna and Noah. Proud great grandfather of Jake
 SELLON-John A. Rye, New York. A retired executive of the American Reinsurance Company died Monday at his home in Rye, New York. Mr. Sellon was the Senior Underwriting Officer of American Re until his retirement in 1972. Born May 20, 1910 in London, England, Mr. Sellon arrived in the United 
 SINGER-Bernard. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime former member, Bernard Singer, and extend our sincere condolences to the members of his family. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 SOKOL-Sidney. Died September 12, 2000 at the age of 91. Beloved husband of Dorothy for over 65 years, cherished father of Eileen Schwartzburg, Jacqueline Fleischman and Monte Sokol. Grandfather of six and great-grandfather of three, he will be dearly missed by us all. He was a valued employ
 WARREN-Dean William C. The Partners of Roberts and Holland are deeply saddened by the death of our Founder and esteemed colleage Dean William C. Warren. For decades our firm was blessed by Dean Warrens' brilliant legal mind and astute business sense. Dean Warren shared his deep knowledge of
 WARREN-William C. The Officers, Directors, and Staff of Sterling Bancorp and Sterling National Bank mourn the passing of their long time friend, advisor and colleague, who served as a Director with great integrity and distinction for many years. His distinguished and exceptional career span
 MOORE-John McDonald. Jan. 11, 1919-Sept. 14, 1999. A dedicated, generous teacher, a lovely human being, and a blessing for the world and all who knew him. He was a parent and a husband like no other. We recall all his gifts with joy and gratitude, and embrace his memory with love.       
 Stanley Turrentine, a jazz tenor saxophonist whose blues-based, easygoing style appealed to a market wider than the jazz world for 40 years, died on Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 66 and lived in Fort Washington, Md. The cause was a stroke, 
 Warren J. Wolfe, a former advertising director at The New York Times, died on Sept. 1 in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. He was 83. Mr. Wolfe was born in Great Neck, N.Y. After serving as a first lieutenant in the Army in World War II, he worked in advertising sales at The World Telegram in
 Frederick Henry Koch Jr., a professor of drama at the University of Miami who is credited with creating the first fully flexible theater building in the round in the United States, died on Aug. 26 at his home in Miami. He was 88. Mr. Koch, who was born in Grand Forks, N.D., received
 Julius Schulman, a widely traveled violinist who played in several major American orchestras, including the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Boston Symphony and the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, died on Saturday at Brotman Hospital in Culver City, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Culver City.      
 BODENHEIMER-Dr. Ernst L. We extend sincerest condolences to his wife, Clementine, and his children. As a former Vice President of the American Committee, Dr. Bodenheimer was instrumental in planning the building of the present Medical Center complex. May the entire family be comforted among
 DORAN-Joseph A. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Joseph A. Doran, a life member of the Society and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 GRONNINGSATER - Arne. The trustees, faculty and administration of Riverdale Country School extend their deepest sympathies to the children of Arne Gronningsater, who passed away on August 30, in Westport, NY. Beloved teacher and friend to generations of students, his spirit remains at River
 LUNDELL-Kert F. Born in Malmo, Sweden, lived in Greenwich Village, NY. Beloved husband of Bretta, devoted father of Erik and Kate, died September 11 of lung cancer. A set designer and artist who had a long and highly acclaimed career. We will miss him for his warmth and humanity. A memorial
 MILLER-Norman A. died in August 2000 in his Tuxedo Park home where he had lived with his loving and beloved wife of 48 years, Adelaide B. Miller. A brother predeceased him. Born in 1926 in Euclid, Ohio, son of the late George R. and Anna Miller of Cleveland, he served in World War II in the
 PEERS-Vincent Thomas. On September 11, 2000. Retired New York Times Pressman (1988). Survived by his loving wife, Dolores (nee Roberts); Devoted father of Claire Murphy, Dolores Scism, Joanne Burnett, Gerard and Vincent Peers. Cherished grandfather of Stessa, Jaycee, Aram, Andrew, Carrie an
 RAMSEY-The Rev. Canon John R. Age 93 of Marblehead, Massachusetts, died on Wednesday, September 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Barbara (Barker) Ramsey of Marblehead, MA. Loving father of Peter R. Ramsey and his wife Isabel B. Phillips of Andover, MA and Christopher V. Ramsey of Cohoes, NY. Lo
 RASKIND-David, M.D. Dr. David Raskind died September 13 at the age of 100. He is survived by his children, Dr. Josephine Raskind VonHippel and Dr. Renee Richards and two brothers, Ben Raskind and Albert Raskind as well as three grandchildren David & James VonHippel & Nicholas Raskind, and t
 SCHWARTZ-Julius, who practiced internal medicine and cardiology for 54 years, died in Hollywood, Fla., on Sept. 6, at the age of 91. The funeral service was private. A 1933 graduate of Syracuse University's College of Medicine (now Upstate Medical University), he was one of that school's ol
 TEICH-Edwin Nils. On September 14, 2000. The family deeply mourns the passing of Edwin Nils Teich. Adored brother of Buddy and Jack; beloved brother-in-law of Janet; cherished uncle of Marc, Michael, Jaime, Allison, Jennifer and baby Jacob. Mr. Teich grew up in Great Neck, NY. He was gradua
 WARREN-Dean William C. The Officers and Directors of Barnwell Industries, Inc. are deeply saddened and mourn the death of our Director and friend who served for many years on the Board. His brilliant legal mind and keen business sense contributed greatly to the success of the company. In ad
 W. Page Thompson, an executive in the publishing industry, died on Sunday in New York. He was 73. The cause of death was cancer, said his son Page. Mr. Thompson became publisher of American Home magazine in 1972. Two years later, he became publisher and president of Girl Talk, which
 William H. Pitt, a real estate executive and philanthropist, died on Saturday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 73 and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Pitt was born in Stamford, Conn., and established the William Pitt R
 William Clements Warren, a former dean of Columbia Law School who rebuilt it as it entered the modern era, died on Monday. He was 91. As first the leader of, then a major donor to, the law school where two buildings now bear his name, Mr. Warren had an influence there that spanned f
 Aaron W. Warner, a left-leaning lawyer who began his career as one of Felix Frankfurter's ''bright young men'' in the New Deal, and then switched careers at 46 to be a Columbia University professor and administrator for almost half a century, died on Aug. 25 in Manhattan. He was 92.        
 George Christopher, who as San Francisco's mayor persuaded the New York Giants to move to California, died on Thursday in San Francisco. He was 92. Mr. Christopher, a Republican, served two terms as mayor from 1956 through 1964. He got off to a strong start: when he was elected in 1
 CARTER-Charles Abbott, III, age 54, passed away in N Y C, September 6th. Memorial Services will be held at 11a.m. Saturday, September 23 at Fifth Ave. Presbyterian Church, NYC. He is survived by parents, Mr.& Mrs. Charles Abbott Carter, Jr., of Kansas City; sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Gibby and 
 KOHL-Schuyler George, MD. 87, died on September 14, 2000. Devoted husband of 57 years of Blossom, adored father of Eileen, father-in-law of Eric. Grandfather of Erin and Elinore Kaufman. Distinguished Professor, dedicated teacher and helper to patients, nurse mid-wives, medical students and
 LOCKTON-John Dudley. Retired Treasurer of General Electric. Died of natural causes September 12, 2000, in Greenwich, Connecticut. Mr. Lockton was born in Logansport, Indiana, in 1903. The son of an Episcopal clergyman, he was one of five brothers, all now deceased. He graduated from the Uni
 MILLER-Norman A. died in August 2000 in his Tuxedo Park home where he had lived with his loving and beloved wife of 48 years, Adelaide B. Miller. A brother predeceased him. Born in 1926 in Euclid, Ohio, son of the late George R. and Anna Miller of Cleveland, he served in World War II in the
 SIEGEL-Victor, of W. Orange, NJ, in his 91st year on September 15. Proud husband of Elaine for 65 years. Revered father, grandfather, great-grandfather and fatherin-law of Daniel, Eileen, Royce, Shepard, Stuart, Jill, Craig, Susan, Jon, Jennifer, Zoe and David. Services, Sunday, Schoems Cha
 ZIMMERMAN-William. Of North Palm Beach Florida, died September 9, 2000. He was 80. Survived by his sisters, Ida Rubin, Rose Zimmerman and Sarah Tepper, his three children, Stuart Zimmerman, Marc Zimmerman and Susan Chroman, and ten loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Mr Zimmerman 
 AMES-James Barr. Of Lincoln, Massachusetts. On September 8, 2000 at age 89. Distinguished lawyer with the Boston firm of Ropes & Gray, president of the Boston Atheneaum, treasurer of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, and president of the Massachusetts Historical Society. Survived by his wife 
 COOPER-Irwin. Age 74, of Fair Lawn, NJ. On September 11, 2000. Practicing certified public accountant and partner at Kutell and Cooper in New York City for 42 years. A World War II navy veteran. Survived by his wife Joan, daughters Sherry and Iris, son William, brother Sidney and sister Viv
 IBANEZ-Rafael Gilberto. Mr. Ibanez born Ponce, Puerto Rico and resident of NYC since 1926 died September 15, 2000 after a long illness. Mr. Ibanez was a retired postal employee, who served in WWII in Europe. He is survived by his daughters Grace Friedman, Martha Baas Wahmann, Aida Regan, Vi
 IMBERMAN-Jack. Of Kew Gardens, N.Y. on September 8, 2000. He was a veteran of W.W. II. ''Uncle'' will be deeply missed by the Landou & Imberman families. Services were held at the Beth El Cemetery on September 11th.       
 KLEIN-Edward A. CWO, USAF (Ret.). Died Friday, September 8, 2000, in Pembroke Pines, FL, at the age of 86. World traveler. Burial with Honors at Arlington National Cemetery. A 52 year member of Scottish Rite, Shanghai Orient. He was a model for grandfathers everywhere and for living with di
 KRUSZKA-Joseph T., on September 14th, 2000. Senior Managing Director, Bear Stearns & Co., Inc. Beloved husband of Anne Marie. Loving father of Jessica. Loved by all he knew. Reposing at Ralph Aievoli & Son Funeral Home, 1275 65th Street (corner 13th Avenue), Brooklyn. Reposing Sunday, 2-4:3
 MARCUS-Leonard, D.D.S. On September 15, 2000, at age 84. Beloved husband of Sydney, cherished father of Peggy, Barbara and her husband Michael Pollack, loving grandfather of Miranda Hammer and Lucy and Ava Pollack, and dear brother-in-law of Gerald and Phyllis Lakow. We will remember him fo
 MILLER-Norman A. died in August 2000 in his Tuxedo Park home where he had lived with his loving and beloved wife of 48 years, Adelaide B. Miller. A brother predeceased him. Born in 1926 in Euclid, Ohio, son of the late George R. and Anna Miller of Cleveland, he served in World War II in the
 NABER-James H, 67, of Litchfield, Connecticut, formerly of Fairfield and Easton, died on Sunday, September 10. He was President and CEO of Glendinning Companies from 1975 to 1985, previously holding positions including Managing Director of International Operations and President of U.S. Oper
 PEERS-Vincent of Spring Hill, FL. A longtime resident of Massaqequa, NY, he was 75 when he died on Monday, September 11, of complications related to his heart and lungs. Vincent retired as a pressman from The New York Times and Daily News, where he was well known for his sense of humor and 
 REIZEN-Aaron. July 6, 1935-September 16, 2000. Champion of words, champion of wit. He made life more interesting for others, simply by being himself. Goodbye dear friend. REIZEN-Aaron. On September 16, 2000. Our uncle, our friend. ''Aces.'' ''Remember who loves you.'' Jennifer Linet
 ROSENFELD-Gerald R. On September 16, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Brooke W. Rosenfeld. Loving father of Alexandra. Brother of Ernest and the late Mort. Also beloved by ten nieces and nephews. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Tuesday at 11:30 AM. Interm
 SANDS-George E. Died peacefully in his 100th year on September 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Marjorie U. Sands. Devoted stepfather of Charlotte Stadler and Julia Shubik. Grandfather to Claire Shubik, Daniel, Alex and David Stadler. Great-grandfather to Henry and Lily Stadler. Memorial servic
 TEICH-Edwin N. Our dear friend of many years. A cultured man of integrity. He will be missed . Our hearfelt condolences to his brothers, Buddy and Jackie & families. Arnold and Dawn Pohl       
 TINKER-Robert Lee. Born October 6, 1926 in Teaneck, NJ, son of the late Teresa and Malcolm Tinker, died at home suddenly on Sunday, September 10, 2000. He is mourned by his many friends and colleagues. Funeral services will be private. A memorial will be announced. TINKER-Robert Lee
 WARREN-Dean William C. The Officers and Directors of Barnwell Industries, Inc. are deeply saddened and mourn the death of our Director and friend who served for many years on the Board. His brilliant legal mind and keen business sense contributed greatly to the success of the company. In ad
 WOLFE-Warren J. Warren J. Wolfe of Great Neck and Westhampton Beach, died on September 1st at the age of 83 due to emphysema-related complications. Prior to his retirement in 1976, Mr. Wolfe was the Director of Advertising for The New York Times. Mr. Wolfe served as Board President of both 
 ZIMMERMAN-William. Of North Palm Beach Florida, died September 9, 2000. He was 80. Survived by his sisters, Ida Rubin, Rose Zimmerman and Sarah Tepper, his three children, Stuart Zimmerman, Marc Zimmerman and Susan Chroman, and ten loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Mr Zimmerman 
 Douglas T. Jacobson, who received the Medal of Honor as a Marine private for single-handedly storming enemy positions on Iwo Jima, an action resulting in the deaths of 75 Japanese soldiers, died Aug. 20 at a hospital in Port Charlotte, Fla. He was 74 and lived in North Port, Fla. He
 GOLDSTONE-Martin Blair. 40, of Grove City, OH, formerly of Great Neck, Long Island, passed away Friday, September 15, 2000. From his loving brothers, Marc and Mitchell Goldstone       
 KING-Donald Nelson. Age 66. Of Mantoloking, NJ, passed away Thursday, September 14, in Darby, Montana. Donald was a graduate of Columbia University. He served as Managing Director for J. P. Morgan Investments, and Managing Director for Trust Company of West. He was a member of the Bay Head 
 LUNDELL-Kert. The Board of Trustees and membership of Ensemble Studio Theatre mourn the loss of our great friend and Trustee, Kert Lundell. A distinguished designer and long-time supporter of new theatre and design talent, he will be sorely missed. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife B
 MARCUS-Leonard. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus MARCUS-Leonard. We mourn the loss of our brother-in-
 PERDONCIN-Peter. It is with great sorrow and loss that his friends and colleagues at Montefiore note the passing of Peter Perdoncin, who headed the Medical Center's construction team for over three decades. An outstanding leader, exemplary engineer, supportive colleague and great friend, Pe
 PIRRECA-John A. Age 65. Passed away Wednesday, September 13, 2000, at Odyssey Hospice in Las Vegas, NV. Born October 14, 1934, in the Bronx, NY. Mr. Pirreca was a resident of the Port Washington and Old Bethpage areas for 62 years. Mr. Pirreca was a Navy veteran. He is survived by his son J
 PRENDERGAST-Kevin J. On September 9, 2000, after a long illness. Tax attorney, specializing in executive compensation. For most of his career, practiced law with the firm of Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler, where he was described by a partner as a person of emense integrity and ability. Be
 ROSENFELD-Gerald R. On September 16, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Brooke W. Rosenfeld. Loving father of Alexandra. Brother of Ernest and the late Mort. Also beloved by ten nieces and nephews. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Tuesday at 11:30 AM. Interm
 SANDS-George E. Died peacefully in his 100th year on September 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Marjorie U. Sands. Devoted stepfather of Charlotte Stadler and Julia Shubik. Grandfather to Claire Shubik, Daniel, Alex and David Stadler. Great-grandfather to Henry and Lily Stadler. Memorial servic
 WHYTE-Donald. The New York Philharmonic notes with grief and sadness the death of Donald Whyte, a deeply valued member of the Philharmonic's violin section since 1972. Mr. Whyte's early teachers were Alexander Whyte and Elman Lowe. Prior to joining the Orchestra, Mr. Whyte attended the Univ
 ZIMMERMAN-William. Of North Palm Beach Florida, died September 9, 2000. He was 80. Survived by his sisters, Ida Rubin, Rose Zimmerman and Sarah Tepper, his three children, Stuart Zimmerman, Marc Zimmerman and Susan Chroman, and ten loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Mr Zimmerman 
 Richard B. Thomas, a former publisher of Time magazine who helped start People magazine, died Thursday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his son, Charles B. Thomas. Mr. Thomas was part of the last generation of Time Inc. executives to 
 BERRY-William F. The board of directors and officers of United Rentals, Inc. announce with great sadness that William F. Berry, president and a director, has died following a courageous battle with cancer. He was 48 years old and had been on medical leave since February 1999. He spent more 
 BROWN-Peter. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of their esteemed member, Peter Brown and extend their sincerest sympathy to his wife, Dorothy and his beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 BURKE-Douglas Andrew. May 25, 1956-September 16, 2000 in Minneapolis. He is survived by his wife Joan, his parents Walter and Constance Burke, brother Dr. Walter Burke, sisters Nancy Tunney, Diane Burke and Bonnie Himmelman. A memorial service will be held September 20 at 10AM at the Stanwi
 DOOB-Frederick T., D.D.S. Born June 5, 1913. September 16, 2000. Dr. Doob practiced in NYC. A loving husband and father, survived by his wife Joyce, four children, six grandchildren and one great grandson.       
 JOYCE-Vincent DePaul, 87, of Toddy Hill Road, Newtown, formerly of Danbury and the Bronx, died Wednesday, August 23, 2000 at Ashlar of Newtown. He was the husband of the late Gertrude Joyce, (nee Kane). Born in the Bronx, N.Y. on July 8, 1913, he was the son of Christopher and Anna (Lyons) 
 KAHN-Rabbi Shlomo. We extend sincerest condolences to Eva Kahn on the lost of her beloved husband. For nearly forty years, first as a founding member of the original American Committee Board, the Medical Center was the beneficiary of his advice and wise counsel. We shall miss his warm smile
 KIESER-Rev. Ellwood E., CSP. On September 16, 2000 in Los Angeles at age 71. Philadelphia, Pa-born, he was ordained a Paulist priest by Cardinal Spellman on 5/3/56 at Saint Paul the Apostle Church, New York City. The Hollywood priest/producer worked in film production for over forty years. 
 KOHL-Schuyler G., M.D., DrPH. SUNY-Downstate Medical Center's Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology sorrowfully regrets the passing of Dr. Schuyler G. Kohl, a Distinguished Service Professor in the Department on September 14, 2000. Dr. Kohl was a member of the faculty for a period of fift
 LITTLE-Wm. Brian. Loved husband, father, son, grandfather, father-in-law, friend of Judy, Jackie, Greg, Bill, Will, Megan, Jack, Henry and Alicia. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Colgate University or the Photography Department of the Santa Barbara Museum of Art or the Phot
 MacLENATHEN - William Mer rick. Of Danbury, CT and Mt. Sinai NY died September 18, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Carol Mansfield MacLenathen and his sister, Dr. Elizabeth James of Brooklyn. Calling at Tomlinson Homestead, 336 Main St, Danbury CT, Wednesday, 7-8:30 PM, services Thursday 
 MALLEN-Anthony P. On September 18, 2000. Beloved son of the late Bernard J. and Elizabeth Mallen. Cherished brother of Edward of Andover, MA, and the late Sr. Angela Mallen and the late Maria Mallen Hefele. Dearest uncle of Jessica, Noel, Lauren, Michael and Ian. Mass of Christian Burial on
 MELLICK-Roger Drew, Jr., 79. Of Oldwick, New Jersey died at home on Saturday, September 16th 2000. He was born in Plainfield, New Jersey, the son of Roger D. and Catherine Ginna Mellick. He graduated from the Hill School, attended the University of Virginia and served in the United States A
 PRENDERGAST-Kevin J. On September 9th, 2000, after a long illness. Tax attorney, specializing in executive compensation. For most of his career, practiced law with the firm of Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler, where he was described by a partner as a person of immense integrity and ability.
 SANDS-George E. Died peacefully in his 100th year on September 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Marjorie U. Sands. Devoted stepfather of Charlotte Stadler and Julia Shubik. Grandfather to Claire Shubik, Daniel, Alex and David Stadler. Great-grandfather to Henry and Lily Stadler. Memorial servic
 SENTER-Alfred Mitchell, age 86. Owner of the former Senter's Department Store in Brunswick, Maine died Saturday, September 16, 2000, Freeport, Maine. Mr. Senter was born in Brunswick, March 2, 1914, the son of Wilbur Fisk & Emma Thompson Senter. He attended Brunswick High School for two yea
 SHARWELL-William G. Of Bronxville, NY on Sept. 18, 2000. Surviving are Jacqueline L., sons William L. Sharwell of Lakeland, FL., and Paul L. Sharwell of Park City, Utah, sister, Marguerite S. McCrea of Montclair, NJ. Also surviving are several nieces and nephews. Calling hours at the Fred H
 TINKER-Robert Lee. Born October 6, 1926 in Teaneck, NJ, son of the late Teresa and Malcolm Tinker, died at home suddenly on Sunday, September 10, 2000. He is mourned by his many friends and colleagues. Funeral services will be private. A memorial will be announced. TINKER-Robert L. 
 Robert L. Schweitzer, a retired Army general who was ousted from his post at the National Security Council in 1981 after warning of a ''drift toward war'' with the Soviet Union, died on Saturday at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington. He was 72. General Schweitzer, who lived in 
 William Brian Little, an investment banker who was a founding partner of Forstmann Little, the New York leveraged-buyout firm, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 58 and maintained residences in Manhattan; Amagansett, N.Y.; and Santa Barbara, Calif. The cause was cardiac arrest, sai
 George Sands, whose association with golf in the metropolitan area encompassed more than seven decades of service and leadership, died in his sleep last Saturday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 99. When he was 97, Mr. Sands, who was born in New York City in 1901, was the olde
 Jerzy Giedroyc, a founding editor of Kultura, a Polish literary and political magazine published in Paris that championed the exiled Polish democratic opposition movement, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 94 and lived in Paris. A leading figure of postwar Polish culture, Mr. Giedro
 EASTWOOD-W. Norman. Died peacefully at age 94. He was born in Ashton-under-Lyme, England and came to Sand Key, Clearwater in 1974. He retired as Vice President of Merritt-Chapman & Scott of New York after a long construction management career. He was Assistant construction Superintendent of
 EDMUNDS-Robert, M.D. Died peacefully September 18, 2000. Born September 14, 1924, Toledo, OH. Graduate Harvard College 1946 and Columbia Univ. College of Physicians and Surgeons 1951. He was a surgeon on the staff of St. Luke's Hospital for 25 years and served on the Faculty of Columbia P&S
 FOOS-George. The staff and Board of Directors of American Jewish World Service mourn the passing of one of our founding Board Members. A distinguished leader in all his communities, he cared tremendously, through his Judaism, for the needs of people around the world.       
 HADDOW-Robert D. Died September 17, 2000. He is survived by his parents Robert S. and Virginia Haddow of Greenwich, Ct., a sister Susan of NYC, his wife of eleven years Amy and two sons Tyler and Matthew all of Seward, AK. A memorial service is scheduled for 11AM on Saturday, September 23 a
 HEXNER-Milton. On September 18, 2000. Beloved father of Leslee Penalver. Devoted brother of Julie, Helen Rosenman and Francine Velocci. Cherished grandfather of Sydney and Madison. Loving companion to Joann and son Peter. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, grand nieces and grand nephews
 HOLMAN-Richard A. On Sept. 18, 2000. Age 77. Beloved husband of Mary Patricia. Devoted father of Jonathan, Beth and Jeffrey, and Eleanor Holman, the mother of his children. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth, Eva & Alexander Holman and Mark and Paul Sawyier. Devoted brother of Leonore Greim
 KAHN - Shlomo. Congregation Beth Hillel and Beth Israel of Washington Heights deeply mourns the passing of its esteemed Rabbi, Shlomo Kahn. Rabbi Kahn, who was born in Stuttgart, Germany, was our spiritual leader for 47 years. His outstanding character, modesty and Torah knowledge were an i
 KOHL-Schuyler G., M.D., Dr.Ph, The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Schuyler G. Kohl, M.D., Dr.Ph, distinguished service professor of obstetrics and gynecology. Dr. Kohl was an expert in maternal and fetal health and a leader in the field of midwifery education 
 LANGER-Cyrella. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our members Richard Langer upon the loss of his mother, and to Dr. Isaac Chavel upon the loss of his sister. May they and their families be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobi
 LITTLE-Wm. Brian. Loved husband, father, son, grandfather, father-in-law, friend of Judy, Jackie, Greg, Bill, Will, Megan, Jack, Henry and Alicia. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Colgate University or the Photography Department of the Santa Barbara Museum of Art or the Phot
 MALLEN-Anthony P. On September 17, 2000. Beloved son of the late Bernard J. and Elizabeth Mallen. Cherished brother of Edward of Andover, MA, and the late Sr. Angela Mallen and the late Maria Mallen Hefele. Dearest uncle of Jessica, Noel, Lauren, Michael and Ian. Mass of Christian Burial on
 SANDS-George E. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and former President, George Sands. PastPresident of the Metropolitan Golf Association, honorary chairman of the Ike Tournament, founder and Chairman of the L
 SHARWELL-William G. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of William Sharwell, past member of the Board of Trustees and beloved friend of long-standing. An unwavering admirer of St. Angela Merici and enthusiastic about the College's Ursuline heritage, Dr. Sharw
 SNYDER-Dr. Elkan. September 19th. Husband of Ellen and the late Bess Cheikin. Father of Fred and his wife Leslie Snyder and stepfather of Steven, Mark and Laura Zirinsky. Grandfather of Nicholas and Douglas Snyder. Brother of Leona Dick and Beulah Fishman. Service Wednesday September 20 at 
 TORRES-Julio S. On September 18, 2000. Survived by his devoted wife Maria. Loving children Martha, Julio H. and Omar. Beloved brother of Josefina, Maruja and Alfonso. Mass of Christian Burial, Wednesday 9:30AM at Our Lady of Cenacle. For information call Walter B. Cooke, 718-823-6200.      
 WEISSMAN-Marc I. We, the members of Marc Weissman Associates Incorporated, acknowledge with sadness and sorrow the untimely passing of our founder on Sunday, September 17, 2000. His design genius will continue forever to be a guiding inspiration to our organization. We extend our deepest sy
 The Rev. Ellwood Kieser, an Emmy Award-winning Roman Catholic priest who blended religious commitment with a passion for making socially aware film and television, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 71 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was colon cancer, said the Rev. Frank De
 Richard A. Holman, an inventive publisher and editor who foresaw the market for specialized business information services and was involved in an important legal test case to distinguish true business journalism from tout sheets, died on Monday at New York University Hospital. He was 77.    
 The Rev. Edward O. Miller, an outspoken liberal Episcopal minister who was the longtime rector of St. George's Episcopal Church in Manhattan, died on Saturday in Bangor, Me. He was 84 and lived in Castine, Me. Mr. Miller was the rector of St. George's from 1946 to 1975. The church i
 Kert Lundell, a set designer for more than 75 Broadway and Off Broadway productions who won three Drama Desk Awards, died on Sept. 11. He was 64 and lived in  Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Bretta. Mr. Lundell, whose career spanned four decades, created
 Nathan Kroll, a film producer whose background as a Juilliard-trained violinist informed his award-winning television documentaries about the cellist Pablo Casals, the violinist Jascha Heifetz and the tenor Luciano Pavarotti, among other musical subjects, died last Thursday after a long ill
 ADAMS-Seibert G. Well known in the college textbook publishing industry, died on Wednesday September 20 in Sharon, Ct. He was 65. Born October 12, 1934 in New Haven, Ct., son of Seibert Gruber Adams and Norma M. Adams. He graduated from Yale University in 1957 and served as a lieutenant in 
 BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. Died on Tuesday evening after a long battle with pancreatic cancer. Born May 24th, 1937 in New York City, he is survived by his devoted wife of 33 years, Stephanie Hammerschlag Bernheim; their loving children, Erica Bernheim, Claudia Bernheim and her husband, Leo Ra
 DWAN-Brian T., 52, of New York, NY, on Wednesday, Sept. 11, 2000. After a brief illness. Beloved son of Grace (Barrett) Dwan of Harwich, MA., and the late Leon Adams Dwan. Brother of Grace Valentino of Sarasota, FL, Stephen Dwan of Walpole, MA, and Marilyn Kline of Port Charlotte, FL. Also 
 EDMUNDS-Robert, M.D. Died peacefully September 18, 2000. Born September 14, 1924, Toledo, OH. Graduate Harvard College 1946 and Columbia Univ. College of Physicians and Surgeons 1951. He was a surgeon on the staff of St. Luke's Hospital for 25 years and served on the Faculty of Columbia P&S
 JOLIS-Albert. September 19, 2000. Beloved husband of Mona. Devoted father of Paul, Jack, James and the late Alan. Loving brother of the late Bernard. Cherished grandfather of Jane, Annie, Oliver, Timothy, Lucy, Jacob & Jeremy. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. He was a
 KRIEGER-Zanvyl. We mourn the loss of a true giant in the world of Jewish and general philanthropy. As a Diamond Founder of the Medical Center, his outstretched hand of kindness made an invaluable contribution to our Department of Ophthalmology and to many thousands of people in Jerusalem. O
 LEVIN-Sidney H. Age 94. Died on September 19, 2000. In Los Angeles, CA. He is survived by his wife Idelle, his brother Alfred, his son Robert and daughter-in-law Elizabeth.       
 LITTLE-Wm. Brian. Loved husband, father, son, grandfather, father-in-law, friend of Judy, Jackie, Greg, Bill, Will, Megan, Jack, Henry and Alicia. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Colgate University or the Photography Department of the Santa Barbara Museum of Art or the Phot
 MacWILLIAMS-John J. Of Old Lyme, CT, died on September 20, 2000. He is formerly of Pebble Beach, CA and Philadelphia, PA. He was born in Syracuse, NY on April 30, 1929. He attended Phillips Academy, Andover, MA., and graduated from Hobart College. He was the former chairman and CEO of Colon
 MOLISANI-Marianne A. On September 19, 2000. Wife of the late E. Howard Molisani. Beloved mother of two sons Rex and his wife Teri of Trinton Falls, NJ and Mark and his wife Lisa of Chatham, NJ. Grandmother of Jason, Matthew, Michael, and Christin. A funeral Liturgy will be held at Corpus Ch
 ODESSEY-Paul Herman. Died at his home in Great Neck, NY, on Tuesday, September 19, 2000. Mr. Odessey was President of Polarad Electronics Corporation from 1949 -1965. Mr. Odessey was the holder of many patents; notably one of the earliest translating devices developed for the U.N. From 1965
 PADOVANO-Louis, S.J., M.D. On September 20, 2000. Beloved son of the late John and Margaret Padovano. Loving brother of John Padovano, Jr. and Angela Alaimo. Dear brother-in-law of Consuelo Padovano and Joseph Anthony Alaimo. Cherished uncle of Lisa and Christopher Alaimo, John III, Margare
 ROSEVEAR-Kenneth White, 93. Died September 15, 2000. Husband of the late Leslie (nee Ferguson), he is survived by two daughters, Cora Rosevear and Linda Greenberg, and two grandchildren, Leslie and Paul. A longtime resident of New York and Roslyn, Long Island, he lived in Sykesville, Maryla
 SARGENT-James O'Hara. Born August 3, 1962, died September 15, 2000. Beloved son of Clement Denny Sargent and Anne Sargent. Beloved brother and dear friend. He will be missed by all. SARGENT-James O. The employees of Rolex Watch USA mourn the loss of our good friend and colleague, Ji
 WEIN - Professor Leon. The Brooklyn Law School Community mourns the loss of a beloved colleague and esteemed teacher. Over the past three decades he has touched the lives of thousands of students, lawyers and friends. Although his presence will be missed, his legacy will be enduring. We ext
 Peter Pinchbeck, an English-born painter who worked in an Abstract Expressionist vein, was found dead in his loft in SoHo on Sept. 10. He was 69. The cause was cardiovascular hypertensive disease, his family said. He was found by friends after they became concerned when he failed to
 Dr. William G. Sharwell, president of Pace University from 1984 to 1990, died on Monday in Rye, N.Y. He was 80 and lived much of his life in Bronxville, N.Y. The cause was lung fibrosis, his wife said. Before becoming president of Pace, Dr. Sharwell was affiliated with AT&T 
 Edward S. Gordon, a commercial real estate broker who built one of the largest real estate service companies in the New York metropolitan region, died yesterday at his home in Water Mill, N.Y. He was 65 and lived on Long Island and in New York City. The cause was colon cancer, said 
 Gen. Gherman Stepanovich Titov, a fighter pilot who in 1961 became the second Russian to fly in space and the first man to sleep there, died on Wednesday while taking a sauna in his apartment here, officials said today. He turned 65 on Sept. 10. Initial reports said he died of carbo
 BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with great sorrow the passing of Leonard Bernheim, Jr., a vice president of JBFCS. For more than 30 years Leonard had been a devoted trustee and leader of JBFCS and for many y
 BRADLEY-George Crawford, 87. beloved father, died on September 20 in Southampton, NY. Educated at Exeter and Yale, he served in WWII aboard the USS Pollux and the USS Montpelier. He later became Executive Vice President of Evans & Co., a brokerage house in NYC. Predeceased by his wife Lucy 
 FOOS-George. Passed peacefully in San Francisco on September 18th. He was preceded by is loving wife Helen in 1994. He is survived by his sons Richard, David, and Garson, his daughters-in-law Shari, Susana, and Nicole, and his five grandchildren, Harley, Miguel, Santiago, Sydney and Zachary
 FRALEY-Robert. The Diller-Quaile School of Music mourns the passing of Robert Fraley, Executive Director of the School from 1972-1976. Beloved by his piano students, Mr. Fraley started many new programs at the School. He initiated the first Suzuki piano program in the City, and, with the co
 GILLIATT-Neal. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing of Neal Gilliatt, a member of the New York Philharmonic's Board of Directors and a tireless supporter of the Orchestra since 1978. A leader in the advertising and marketing industry and President an
 GRUEN-Hans E. Age 74. Retired University of Saskatchewan, Professor of Biology, died suddenly and unexpectedly on September 7, 2000 at home in Saskatoon Canada. Survived by his sister Edith and brother Peter, both of New York City.       
 JOLIS-Albert. September 19, 2000. Beloved husband of Mona. Devoted father of Paul, Jack, James and the late Alan. Loving brother of the late Bernard. Cherished grandfather of Jane, Annie, Oliver, Timothy, Lucy, Jacob & Jeremy. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. He was a
 KRUSZKA-Joseph. The employees of The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. mourn the passing of their esteemed colleague and friend. He inspired all who had the good fortune to know and work with him. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Our heartfelt sympathy to his family and fri
 MILLER-The Reverend Edward Oehler. Of Castine, Maine. On September 16th, 2000, at age 84. Distinguished Rector of St. George's Episcopal Church in NYC from 1946 to 1975. Survived by his wife, Ann Lackman Miller, his daughter, Helen H. Miller of NYC his sons, Dr. David H. Miller and Henry L.
 NEUMAN-Sheldon M. Age 65. On September 21, 2000 in Miami, FL. after a brief illness. Devoted lifetime partner of Cami Green. Beloved father of Rachel & Jonah. Father-in-law of Richard. Proud grandfather of Olivia. Wonderful and caring brother of Herbert and Marvin and brother-in-law of Step
 PADOVANO-Louis, S.J., M.D. On September 20, 2000. Beloved son of the late John and Margaret Padovano. Loving brother of John Padovano, Jr. and Angela Alaimo. Dear brother-in-law of Consuelo Padovano and Joseph Anthony Alaimo. Cherished uncle of Lisa and Christopher Alaimo, John III, Margare
 STIEBEL-Eric. On September 21, 2000 at the age of 89. Beloved husband of Irene. Loving father of Gerald and his wife, Penelope. Adoring grandfather of Catherine Fiebach, Daniel & Hunter Stiebel. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street Friday, September 22nd, 1:30PM. 
 Eric Stiebel, chairman of Rosenberg & Stiebel, an internationally known art gallery that specialized in European old master paintings and decorative arts, died on Thursday, his family said. He was 89. Born in Germany, Mr. Stiebel moved to New York from Frankfurt-am-Main in 1939, aft
 Neal Gilliatt, an advertising executive who oversaw the Coca-Cola account for McCann-Erickson and, later, its parent, the Interpublic Group of Companies, died Wednesday in a Milwaukee hospital after suffering a stroke on a business trip. He was 82 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. G
 David Flusser, among the first Israeli scholars to scrutinize ancient religious texts for clues to the Jewish roots of Christianity, died in Jersualem on Sept. 15, his 83rd birthday. After poring over new archaeological discoveries like the Dead Sea Scrolls, Dr. Flusser popularized 
 BRADLEY-George Crawford, 87. beloved father, died on September 20 in Southampton, NY. Educated at Exeter and Yale, he served in WWII aboard the USS Pollux and the USS Montpelier. He later became Executive Vice President of Evans & Co., a brokerage house in NYC. Predeceased by his wife Lucy 
 CANTOR-Herbert. 87, of Levittown, N.Y., died September 21, 2000 after a brief illness. A good, kind man, smart and funny, he was much loved by Millie, his wife of 54 years, children Phil, Mady and Dan, children-in-law Carrie, Arthur and Laura, and grandchildren Max, Nate, Tess, Eli, Ethan a
 GORDON-Edward S. Funeral services will be Sunday, September 24, 10AM at K.J. Synagogue, 125 East 85 St., NY, NY. For information call 212-774-5600. In lieu of flowers the family requests that contributions be made to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Attn: Dr. David Kelsen, Miller Tra
 GRUEN-Hans E. Age 74. Retired University of Saskatchewan, Professor of Biology, died suddenly and unexpectedly on September 7, 2000 at home in Saskatoon Canada. Survived by his sister Edith and brother Peter, both of New York City.       
 LANDE-Martin. Passed away September 21, 2000. Dearest beloved husband of Corinne for 53 years. Adored father of Jane Scrobola (Robert) and the late Melinda Rosenblatt (Lief). Devoted and loved Grandpa of Andre. He waged the last battle with the same courage and dignity with which he lived h
 LEVINSKY-Albert. We mourn the sudden and untimely passing of our friend and client of more than forty years, and send our condolences to his bereaved family. Allen and Gail Weiss       
 NEUMAN-Sheldon M. Age 65. On September 21, 2000 in Miami, FL. after a brief illness. Devoted lifetime partner of Cami Green. Beloved father of Rachel & Jonah. Father-in-law of Richard. Proud grandfather of Olivia. Wonderful and caring brother of Herbert and Marvin and brother-in-law of Step
 STEWART-Alan. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Ken Simon, President       
 Phillip Glasier, who helped revive the ancient sport of falconry, writing what some consider its bible and starting the National Birds of Prey Center in Britain, died at his home in Gloucestershire on Sept. 11. He was 84. Mr. Glasier, one of only a handful of falconers in Britain wh
 Yehuda Amichai, the Israeli poet who distilled his experience -- and his nation's -- into highly metaphorical verse written in Hebrew and translated into more than 25 languages, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 76. He died of a rare form of lymphoma, said Stanley Moss, a poet and
 Carl T. Rowan, the crusading journalist, best-selling author and defender of affirmative action, proud to call himself a liberal, died today. He was 75 and lived in Washington. Mr. Rowan, who had been hospitalized for various illnesses in recent weeks, died in the intensive 
 ADAMS-Seibert G. Well known in the college textbook publishing industry, died on Wednesday September 20 in Sharon, Ct. He was 65. Born October 12, 1934 in New Haven, Ct., son of Seibert Gruber Adams and Norma M. Adams. He graduated from Yale University in 1957 and served as a lieutenant in 
 BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with great sorrow the passing of Leonard Bernheim, Jr., a vice president of JBFCS. For more than 30 years Leonard had been a devoted trustee and leader of JBFCS and for many y
 BINGHAM-Lewis E. The Committee of Methadone Program Administrators Inc. (COMPA) of New York State extends heartfelt condolences to the family and colleagues of Lewis E. Bingham, late Senior Executive Vice President of the Addiction Research and Treatment Corporation (ARTC) of Brooklyn, NY, 
 BURACK-Abraham W. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Bronxville, NY, passed away in New York City on September 22, 2000. Cherished and beloved husband of Harriet. Devoted father to Herb and Donna. Father-in-law of Jodi. Future father-in-law of Sandy. Beloved grandfather to Ross and Jeffrey. Bro
 CORSEL-Ralph. Passed away on Sunday, September 17, 2000. Surviving are his daughter Candy and his grandchildren Elise and Paul. Ralph's love of life was infectious and touched all that knew him. He will be greatly missed and his spirit lives on.       
 ERWIN-Lee. On September 21, 2000. Born July 15, 1908. Originally from Huntsville, AL. Was famous for the Moon River program which originated at WLW Cincinnati and was on NBC Radio Network. In 1945 Mr. Erwin joined the CBS Music Department in New York, where he became organist, composer and 
 FILNER-Joseph H. Died June 28, in Columbia, MD. He is survived by his wife Doris Filner of Columbia, sons from his first marriage to Sarah Filner, Representative Bob Filner, (D) California, and Dr. Bernard Filner, step-daughter Nancy Stein and five grandchildren. He pioneered the stainless 
 FOOS-George. The family of Abercrombie & Fitch is deeply saddened at the loss of our friend and director. George was a truly unique and kind human being. He spent a great deal of his life helping others. His help to us was enormous and many of his values have become the values of A&F.      
 FORSYTH-Benjamin, 94. Died peacefully at home September 22, 2000. He came from revolutionary Russia and led a fruitful life in Brooklyn with his soulmate and wife of 60 years, the late Emma Forsyth. He was gentle, compassionate, generous and eloquent in word and deed. He was a civil enginee
 GORDON-Edward. To our beloved Dad and Papa: we will always love you. You gave us so many special memories that will last in our hearts forever. Robin, Steve, Jennifer, Jeremy, Emily and Brianna Apple GORDON-Edward S. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profoun
 GRUEN-Hans E. Age 74. Retired University of Saskatchewan, Professor of Biology, died suddenly and unexpectedly on September 7, 2000 at home in Saskatoon Canada. Survived by his sister Edith and brother Peter, both of New York City.       
 HALLEY-Rudolph, D.D.S. Age 92, on September 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne Halley. Loving father of Stephen and Jeffrey and grandfather of Craig, Adam, David, Elizabeth and Ben Israel. He will be greatly missed by those who knew and loved him.       
 HASSENFELD-Harold. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the passing of Harold Hassenfeld whose commitment to JTS and Jewish education was reflected in the life he lived with his beloved wife Rita Dee and their family. The Hassenfeld's longtime support was uniquely evid
 NEUMAN-Sheldon M. Age 65. On September 21, 2000 in Miami, FL. after a brief illness. Devoted lifetime partner of Cami Green. Beloved father of Rachel & Jonah. Father-in-law of Richard. Proud grandfather of Olivia. Wonderful and caring brother of Herbert and Marvin and brother-in-law of Step
 PAVLIS-Gregory P. September 23, 2000, after a long illness, at age 42. Beloved son of Joan SiotkaBlair. Nephew of Nicholas Siotka. Cousin of Debra Skarka, Anne Owen and Irene Kassman. He was Vice President, Human Resources, BBDO Advertising Agency. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 PRINCE-Herbert I. Formerly of NYC and Boca Raton, FL, passed away gently in his sleep September 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Marian for 41 years. Father of Robert J. Prince, Sarabelle, Laurie Ann. Dear grandfather to Molly, Abigail, Benjamin, Danny, Julie and Jennifer. Served as an officer 
 RAY-Morris L. Age 87. Died September 11, 2000. Attorney and retailer for many years. Beloved husband of Esther, father of Diane and Linda; proud grandfather of Maya, Naomi, Justin and Nicholas. Appreciative father-in-law to Patrick Keeffe and Paul Schoenfeld. His strong spirit will live in 
 SILVERMAN-Irving. 78, passed away Sept 21,2000. He is survived by his loving wife Bunny and his son Andrew and daughter Ronnie.       
 STERN-Robert B. Age 71. Died Sept. 19, 2000, in Miami, FL, after a valiant battle with cancer. He was predeceased by his daughter Erica Ann in 1992. Survived by his cherished wife Rhoda; Beloved daughters Claudia and Lydia Stern; His extended family, daughters Toby and Terry and son Jeffrey
 STIEBEL-Eric. On September 21, 2000 at the age of 89. Beloved husband of Irene. Loving father of Gerald and his wife, Penelope. Adoring grandfather of Catherine Fiebach, Daniel & Hunter Stiebel. Services were held. Contributions in his memory may be made to UJA/Federation. STIEBEL-E
 TUCKER-Ralph W., 56. Died on Feb. 26, 2000, at Mt. Sinai Hospital of complications of multiple myeloma. A free-lance writer, director and producer of industrial films, he learned film-making at the Army Pictorial Center in Astoria after a year's tour of duty in Vietnam. He was born in Brade
 Hideo Sasaki, an internationally renowned landscape architect who was as admired for his teaching and critical abilities as for his multidisciplinary approach to design, died on Aug. 30 at a hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 80 and lived in nearby Lafayette, Calif. Mr. Sasaki 
 James Elliott, an innovative museum director and curator and an amateur filmmaker, died Thursday at his home, a houseboat, in Sausalito, Calif. He was 76. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Elliott was known for a string of impressive proteges in th
 EASTMAN-John Merritt. John Merritt Eastman of Rye, NY, died on September 21, 2000, after a struggle with cancer. He and his family lived in Rye for 44 years where he was a committed member of the Manursing Island Club. A lifelong devotee of sailing and racing, he was also a member of the St
 GILLIATT-Neal. The employees of McCann-Erickson mourn the loss of one of the leaders of our company and our industry. Not only was he a superb businessman, but he traveled the world for us, setting standards for McCannErickson's people and operations. As he said ''Religious values are the k
 GORDON-Edward S. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the passing of Edward S. Gordon, and to extend our deepest condolences to his family. He left an indelible mark on our industry. He will be sorely and forever missed, although his legacy will li
 HASSENFELD-Harold Irwin. Of Palm Beach, FL, and Nashville, TN. Died peacefully on September 22, at the age of 84, following a long illness. Mr. Hassenfeld was born January 13, 1916, in Providence, RI, was the oldest son of the late Henry and Marion Hassenfeld. He attended Hope High School i
 HERBSTMAN-Mandel. Died September 23, 2000, one day after his 84th birthday. Beloved husand of Vera.       
 JACKSON-Phillip L. 49, died September 22 after a long and courageous struggle with AIDS. Phil, a partner in the law firm of Shearman & Sterling, was a leading international corporate and securities lawyer with a distinguished and devoted clientele. His practice was characterized by the high
 PAVLIS-Gregory P. September 23, 2000, after a long illness, at age 42. Beloved son of Joan SiotkaBlair. Nephew of Nicholas Siotka. Cousin of Debra Skarka, Anne Owen and Irene Kassman. He was Vice President, Human Resources, BBDO Advertising Agency. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 SNYDER-Edward Philip. Of Southport, CT, died September 23, 2000, in his home. Born in 1919, he graduated from the Taft School where he long served as a Trustee. He was in the Class of '42 at Yale and served with distinction during WW II in the U.S. Navy in both the North and South Pacific T
 Harold B. Barg, a sales and marketing agent in the United States for owners of well-known vineyards and wineries in the Burgundy region of France, died on Sept. 18 in Dijon, France. He was 75, lived in Roseland, N.J., and was on a business trip. The cause was leukemia, his family sa
 Lee Erwin, a theater organist who composed scores for more than 70 silent films and whose performances helped create a revival of interest in silent films during the 1970's, died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 92. Mr. Erwin was an energetic musician who maintai
 BERGER-Donald. On September 24, 2000. Cherished father of Allen and Rebecca, Richard, and Rebecca, Helen and Bruce Kronman, and Ruth and Michael Sigal, devoted grandfather of Joshua, Moriah, Rachel, Sara, Michael, Marsha, Eric, Marc, Amy, and Stacey. Dear brother of June Honig, and Sherwin 
 CLANCY-Frank B. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Frank B. Clancy, a Veteran Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian     
 EPSTEIN-Louis H. Of Plantation, FL. Died peacefully on Monday, September 25, 2000 at the age of 93. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Jacobs. Loving father of Myrna Algus and son-in-law Dr. Seymour Algus of Rockville Centre, N.Y. Loving grandfather of Dr. Jane Algus, and Dr. Mitchell Algus a
 GOLDFRANK-Herbert John. Died at his home in Thornwood, N.Y. on September 9, 2000. He would have celebrated 93 years on September 11th. He is survived by his wife Helen, his son Lewis and daughter-in-law Susan, his daughter Joan and son-in-law Michael, five grandchildren and three great gran
 GORDON-Edward S. The Directors, Trustees and Staff of National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver, CO, express their sincerest condolences to the Gordon Family and the many friends of Edward S. Gordon. Mr. Gordon was a 1991 recipient of The National Jewish Medical and Research Cen
 HASSENFELD-Harold I. The American Jewish Committee mourns the death of Harold Hassenfeld, a dear friend, devoted leader and generous benefactor. Harold served AJC with distinction as former Honorary Chairman of our Palm Beach Campaign and, along with his wife Rita Dee, as members of our Nat
 HONIG-Herbert. Beloved brother of Ruth and George Sadowsky. Devoted cousin of Ruth and Helen Siegel. Services Tuesday, 1:30 PM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 St. and Amsterdam Ave. HONIG - Herbert. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its de
 JACKSON-Phillip L. 49, died September 22 after a long and courageous struggle with AIDS. Phil, a partner in the law firm of Shearman & Sterling, was a leading international corporate and securities lawyer with a distinguished and devoted clientele. His practice was characterized by the high
 KEEGAN-James. The entire staff of the Hebrew Home for The Aged at Riverdale mourns with great sorrow the untimely death of James Keegan, a devoted member of the Hebrew Home family for 32 years. Jim's wholehearted dedication to our residents and to the development and maintenance of the Hebr
 MAHONEY-Robert, of Bridgehampton, N.Y. On September 10, 2000 in his 69th year. Survived by his loving wife Helene, and several nieces and nephews. He was the Superintendent of Manhattan Sites for the Dept. of the Interior and received the Founders Award for development of the Gateway Nation
 The sixth Duke of Sutherland, a Scottish landowner who held one of the largest private collections of old master paintings in the world, died on Thursday. He was 85 and lived on the family estate near St. Boswells, Scotland. The duke's collection, inherited down the line from a long
 Roberto Baden Powell de Aquino, the musician whose blend of African, jazz and classical influences gained him renown as one of Brazil's greatest guitarists, died yesterday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 63. The cause was pneumonia and multiple organ failure, said Alexandre Raine, his pub
 Lawrence G. Hauck, a former news editor of The New York Times, died yesterday at a hospice in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 88 and lived in High Point, N.C. In almost three decades at The Times, Mr. Hauck oversaw a diverse array of the newspaper's operations, from managing United Natio
 ESPOSITO-Bro. Louis, O.F.M. Cap. Beloved son of Mary and the late Vincent. Devoted brother of Jesse and family. Reposing at Our Lady Queen of Angels Church, 226 E. 113 St., Manhattan, on Wednesday and Thursday, 1:30-9PM. Mass of Chirstian Burial, Our Lady Queen of Angels Church, Friday, 11A
 GILLIATT-Neal. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City and the UCP Research and Education Foundation acknowledge the passing of a devoted and generous friend, and Board member. He was a staunch supporter of the needs of child
 GORDON-Edward S. The Real Estate Institute of New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies, mourns the passing of our friend, colleague and supporter Edward S. Gordon. Ed has been a member of our Advisory Board for many years and we have benefitted greatly from his wi
 JACKSON-Phillip L. 49, died September 22 after a long and courageous struggle with AIDS. Phil, a partner in the law firm of Shearman & Sterling, was a leading international corporate and securities lawyer with a distinguished and devoted clientele. His practice was characterized by the high
 KEEGAN-James. The entire staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourns with great sorrow the untimely death of James Keegan, a devoted member of the Hebrew Home family for 32 years. Jim's wholehearted dedication to our residents and to the development and maintenance of the Hebr
 LUBART-Alfred. A loving friend and a wonderful traveling companion. He will be missed. Fredda and Sheldon Leitner       
 MANTELL-Seymour L., 86. Survived by his wife, May, his son Alan married to Laura Lewis Mantell, his sister Jane married to Alan L. Otten, his sister-in-law Dina Metraux and six nieces and nephews. No services will be held. In lieu of flowers, contributions are suggested to Columbia Law Scho
 PASTER-Harry. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 PLISKIN-Robert. On September 26, 2000. Died peacefully at home surrounded by a loving family. Beloved husband to Caroline. Devoted father to Arlene, Patricia and the late Pamela. Adored grandfather to Stephanie, Mindy, Tracy, Joshua, Jamie, Alysha, Jason and Melissa. Dear brother to Irving 
 SISCHY-Benjamin, MD. Beloved and gifted physician died in Sarasota, Florida on September 23, 2000 at the age of 82. He was born in South Africa in 1918. He practiced medicine there and also subsquently in Edinburgh and London in the UK before emigrating to the USA in 1967. In Rochester, NY,
 SMART-William S., 70, of Spring Hill, FL, September 23. A native of Bronx, NY and Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, he retired to Florida in 1998. Mr. Smart was in the insurance/investment business. Served in U.S. Army in Korea. Graduated N Y U in 1951 & attended N Y U Law School. Memorial service will be hel
 WADE-Luis M. Passed away on Sunday, Sept 24, 2000. He was Senior Payroll Clerk at NYU Medical Center. Luis will be remembered for maximizing his faith, his wit and his loving kindness to all who knew him. He is survived by sisters Joyce Wade Hendricks of NYC, and Cora Wade Weston of L.A., C
 WALSH-Thomas J., Sr. In Bowdoin, ME, age 85, died Monday, September 25, 2000 at his home. Former resident of Scarsdale, NY and CPA with Kennedy Enerprises and Director of Emigrant Savings Bank. Husband of Irene Walsh.       
 WITZLING-Morton. The partners, associates and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece are deeply saddened by the passing of retired partner, Morton Witzling, a wonderful person, attorney, teacher and student of the law. Our thoughts, love and prayers are with his wife, Renee, his daughters, Mara & Cathe
 Adm. Horacio Rivero Jr., a former vice chief of naval operations and ambassador to Spain, died on Sunday at his home in Coronado, Calif. He was 90. Admiral Rivero was vice chief of naval operations from 1961 to 1968. A fluent Spanish-speaker who was born in Puerto Rico, he was the N
 Arthur E. Goldschmidt, a United Nations economist who became an ambassador at the United Nations, died on Thursday at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. He was 90. Mr. Goldschmidt was the United States representative at the United Nations Economic and Social Council from 1967 
 Heberto Padilla, an acclaimed Cuban poet whose criticism of Fidel Castro's rule landed him first in jail and later in exile, died on Monday in Auburn, Ala., where he had recently become a writer in residence at Auburn University. He was 68. Mr. Padilla was found dead in his apartmen
 DAVIS-Arthur L. Loving and devoted husband of Lenore for 59 years, father of Nan, Ruth and Rob, father-in-law of Nina Davis and Bill Drew, grandfather of Jonathan and Jesse Davis, David and Mark Drew. Died peacefully surrounded by his family Tuesday, September 26. He was 81 years old. He wa
 FINE-Robert (Tab), 83. Of Brooklyn and Boca Raton, FL. passed away September 23, 2000. Beloved husband of 60 years to Mildred (Rosenblatt). Devoted father to Arline Kirschner and Steven. Father-in-law to Larry and Arlene. Loving grandfather of five. Greatgrandfather of four. He shall be rem
 GOLDSTEIN - Morton. Renais sance man available to all. We will sorely miss his wisdom, warmth, wit, humanity & humor. Survived by his wife of 53 years, Sonia, five children, five siblings, 5 wonderful grandchildren and two computers. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street & Amst
 PASTER-Harry. The entire membership and staff of the American Association of Advertising Agencies mourns the loss of Harry Paster, who died Tuesday September 26 at the age of 74 after a prolonged illness. A former AAAA executive vice president, Harry was one of the most influential and colo
 RANKOW-Robin M. On Sept. 22, 2000. Professor Emeritus and Attending Surgeon, Head and Neck Surgery, Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons. Attending Surgeon, Yale University, New Haven Medical Center, 1979-1985. Authored surgical atlas, medical te
 STIASSNI-Joseph E. Passed away suddenly but peacefully on September 26, 2000. Loving husband of Joy, devoted father of Michael Stiassni, Sylvia Frelinghuysen, and Nicholas Stiassni. Also survived by eight grandchildren and three great grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held at 11 A.M
 UNGER-Sy. Brave, beloved husband of Valerie Unger, father of Melissa and Rusty, grandfather of Amanda Guinzburg. Mourned by loving in-laws, the Houles family; survived also by Robert Unger. May his memory be honored as he rests in peace. Donations to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society 
 WITZLING-Morton. The partners and staff of Milton N. Hoffman Co. are deeply saddened by the passing of a wonderful, kind and caring friend, Morton Witzling. His counsel and wisdom will be missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family.       
 Raoul Berger, a widely read and widely debated authority on the United States Constitution, died on Saturday at his home in Concord, Mass., his wife, Patricia, said. He was 99. Mr. Berger's interpretation of the framers' intentions thrilled liberals when he castigated President Rich
 Frank Wills, the night watchman who discovered the 1972 Watergate burglary, which ultimately led to President Richard M. Nixon's resignation, died on Wednesday. He was 52 and lived in North Augusta, S.C. Mr. Wills, who struggled with celebrity and joblessness after being hailed as h
 Nat Fein, who won a Pulitzer Prize for capturing one of the sports world's most poignant images, a rear-view photograph of a dying Babe Ruth receiving his final accolade at Yankee Stadium in June 1948, died Tuesday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J. He was 86 and lived in Tappan, 
 BLAKE-Christopher. Painter and sculptor passed away in the darkened hours of September 27 at the age of 51. The art-world has lost a sensitive and creative talent. His original and provocative work took on a whimsical surreal magic that reflected his entire life. Chris graduated from Cooper
 FLYNN-Arthur J. Sr. Died peacefully in his sleep on September 24, 2000. Loving husband of the late Helen. Cherished father of Thomas and wife Liz, Billy and wife Rosann, Rosemarie, Michael, Ricia and husband Gary, Arthur Jr. and wife Karen, James and wife Darlene, Fran and husband James, an
 McVEIGH-Charles S., Jr. Charles S. McVeigh, Jr. died suddenly at his home in Syosset on September 27. He is survived by a daughter, Lynne McVeigh, two sons, Charles S. McVeigh III and Johnson B. McVeigh, five grandchildren and two great grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held at a la
 SHELLER-Robert G., Esq. Died peacefully on September 26, 2000 at the age of 93. Husband of the late Helen Reiser Sheller. Father of Elly Sheller Rufer and the late Ed Sheller. Grandfather of Alexandra and Christopher Sheller, Daniel and Kate Rufer. Brother of the late Frances Snyder and unc
 SILLS-Thomas A. On September 26 at age 86. Beloved husband of the late Jeanne Reynal, a mosaicist. Devoted father of Kenneth and Michael, grandfather of Arvis and Dawn and brother of Anne McMurray. A gifted artist, who was a member of the New York Abstract Expressionist movement and then la
 UNGER-Sy. Brave, beloved husband of Valerie Unger, father of Melissa and Rusty, grandfather of Amanda Guinzburg. Mourned by loving in-laws, the Houles family; survived also by Robert Unger. May his memory be honored as he rests in peace. Donations to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society 
 Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the long-serving prime minister of Canada who successfully defended his vision of federalism and a unified nation against the aroused forces of Quebec separatism, died yesterday in Montreal. He was 80. Mr. Trudeau suffered from Parkinson's disease and prostat
 Richard Mulligan, who won Emmy Awards for his portrayal of fathers on the situation comedies ''Soap'' and ''Empty Nest,'' died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said his friend and assistant, David Fisher. Although he achieved his greatest 
 Carl Sigman, who wrote music or words for dozens of songs to which generations have tapped their toes, including the theme song to the 1950's ''Robin Hood'' television series (''Robin Hood, Robin Hood, Riding through the glen'') died at his home in Manhasset, N.Y., on Tuesday. He was 91.   
 Joseph A. Ball, a California trial attorney who was a senior counsel to the Warren Commission, which investigated the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, died on Sept. 21 in Long Beach, Calif. He was 97 and a longtime resident of Long Beach. At his death, Mr. Ball was a part
 GENNARO-Peter. On Sept. 28, 2000, at age 80. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father of Michael and Liza and their spouses, Donna Lee & Scott Alan Evans. Adoring grandfather of Brendan and Fiona. Dear brother of Emile. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Monda
 McVEIGH-Charles S., Jr. Charles S. McVeigh, Jr. died suddenly at his home in Syosset on September 27. He is survived by a daughter, Lynne McVeigh, two sons, Charles S. McVeigh III and Johnson B. McVeigh, five grandchildren and two great grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held at a la
 NAGASHIMA-Hideo, M.D. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center and the entire Montefiore community are deeply saddened by the death of Hideo Nagashima, M.D. An esteemed member of our Department of Anesthesiology for more than 4 decades and director of Anesthesiology 
 ROGERS-Bart M. Of Monmouth Beach, NJ at home on Thursday, September 28, 2000. He was the General Agent for the Manhattan Life Insurance Company since 1952. Loving husband of Adele. Loving father of Bart, John and Marcy Rogers, Jane Von Richthofen, Marianne Drozak and Janice Clark. Loving gr
 Peter Gennaro, whose choreography for the 1977 hit musical ''Annie'' won him a Tony and whose dance sequences and dancing entertained millions on Perry Como's ''Kraft Music Hall'' in the 1960's, died on Thursday. Mr. Gennaro, who lived in Manhattan and maintained a home for many years in Ox
 Robert W. Blanchette, a former head of the Federal Railroad Administration and a former chief executive of the Penn Central Transportation Company, died Monday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 68 and lived in Bethesda, Md. He died after an extended illness, said a friend
