 BLAU-Rose. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law are saddened by the passing of the loving wife of the late David Blau and beloved mother of Harvey Blau, longtime member of the Board of Directors of Cardozo. Harvey, along with his wife, Arlene, are YU Guardians and CS
 CAWLEY-Thomas Patrick. A former captain with the New York City Police Department, law student and respected leader among the Irish community and organizations of Rockland County, was found dead Saturday at his home in Pearl River of an apparent heart attack. He was 63. He retired from the N
 ELIAS-Christopher. On September 30, 2002. Survived by his wife Alyne, his son Christopher, and his daughter Caroline. Service Wednesday 79 PM, Keri Memorial Funeral Home, Lincoln Park, NJ.       
 GITTERMAN - Sidney, 84 passed away September 30, 2002. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on March 16, 1918. He was a WWII Veteran, a watchmaker and 25 year teacher, Assistant Principal at PS4, Bronx. He was married to the late Esther Jacobowitz Gitterman in 1950. He loved art, writing, music and hiking
 HARRIS-Howie. Of Boca Raton died September 30, 2002. He is survived by his loving wife Lucille, daughter Susan, son Bruce and grandchildren Brian, Ricky, Zachary, David and great-grandson Jackson. Gutterman Warheit Memorial Chapel, 1-800-992-9262.       
 HENKUS-Florence. Congregation Talmud Torah Adereth El wishes to express heartfelt condolences to our dear member and former president, Mr. Irving Henkus, on the loss of his beloved wife, Florence Henkus. May he be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 KALOWSKY-Alec. On September 29, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Marguerite (nee McHale). Loving father of Carol and Marguerite Benoit. Proud grandfather of Danielle, Robert, Megan and Alec. Also survived by his sister, Helen Olsen and many nieces and nephews. Visiting today 2-4 and 7-9PM 
 KANAS-Stuart, Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of the revered colleague of over three decades. A wonderful Cantor, he quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of his congregations in New York and Florida. He served with dignity, warmth and care and his kindn
 KOLITZ-Zvi. Beloved husband of Mathilde; father of Daliah, Elinoar, Sylvia, Irene and Jonathan; brother of HaRav Yitzhak Kolitz and Rachel Margalioth; grandfather of Oren, Limor, Nuphar, Alon, Daniel, Ezra and Hannah; and great-grandfather of Royee, Omer, Tamir, Gal and Neve. Went to his re
 NEWSUM-Fletcher A., 49. Of New York City on Monday, September 9, 2002, at his home. Survivors include his mother Barbara, brothers C.T. and Matt, sister Sherree, nephews Patrick, Daniel, Thomas and Nathan and nieces, Kaity and Lauren. His father, Thomas Newsum, preceded him in death. He was
 ROBERTS-Norman A. On September 27, 2002, died peacefully at home at age 85. Beloved husband of the late Bettina. He is survived by his sister Eleanor Rosenblatt. He was predeceased by a sister, Pearl Markowitz and two brothers; Dr. Sidney Rosenfeld and Irving Rosenfeld. Contributions may be
 SLATER-Hyman. The HiTech Talmud Torah mourns the sudden passing of our dear friend and founding member, Mr. Hyman Slater, a man of faith, courage & compassion who invested tremendously in the future of the Jewish People. May the Almighty comfort his family amongst all the mourners of Zion &
 STONE-Victor Lewis, died on Saturday, September 28, age 62. Beloved father of Sarah and Eric Stone and husband of 28 years to Pamela Stone. He was a graduate of the University of Florida, where he was captain of the tennis team, and went on to receive his Master's in Counseling. He had a th
 Paul Williams, a saxophonist and bandleader whose 1948 recording of ''The Hucklebuck'' was an important precursor of rock 'n' roll, died on Sept. 14 in New York City. He was 87. Released early in 1949 on the Newark-based Savoy label, ''The Hucklebuck'' (it was hyphenated on the orig
 Sir John Rennie, a British administrator who struggled to keep the United Nations aid program for Palestinian refugees afloat in the 1960's and 70's, when the Middle East was scarred by war and civil conflict, died on Aug. 12 in London, the United Nations recently announced. He was 
 Arthur Lord, a television journalist who covered world events for NBC News for more than three decades, died last Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. A resident of Los Angeles, he was 60. His family did not disclose a cause of death. Mr. Lord produced an Emmy-winning new
 Dr. Eugene T. Reed, a Long Island dentist who was a militant leader of the civil rights movement in the 1950's and 60's -- staring down rifle-bearing farmers in Mississippi and leading protests in New York -- died last Wednesday at his home in Amityville, N.Y. He was 79. The cause w
 Two years ago, as Frank Lautenberg was preparing to trade in his Senate seat for retirement, he was already expressing regret for his decision not to run for re-election after 18 years in Washington. ''It feels lousy,'' he said at the time. ''I'm going to miss this place.'' Apparent
 ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn with profound sadness the passing of Walter H. Annenberg, who for more than four decades demonstrated on a breathtaking scale his passion for art and his support of this institution. With his wife, Leonore, h
 BERMAN-Dr. Martin H. On September 30, 2002. Beloved husband of Hannah. Loving father of Judy and Paul Litner, and Larry Berman. Devoted grandfather of Drs. Barry and Rori Stevens, Jeffrey and Amy Stevens, Alan, Lorin, Steven and Rachel Litner, and Jamie and Arthur Rubin. Adoring great-grand
 BLAU-Rose. We are saddened by the passing of the mother of Harvey Blau, a longtime friend and generous philanthropist. We extend to Harvey, his wife Arlene and the family our heartfelt condolences. David and Earle Mack       
 CHAPIN - James B. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Queens Borough Public Library mourn the passing of a dear friend and colleague. He was a tireless advocate for literacy and strengthened Queens Library with his wisdom and leadership. He served as a library Trustee from 1980 until his
 GOLDBERG - Richard A., Judge. The Board of Directors of the City College Fund mourns the loss of Judge Richard A. Goldberg, '51B, former Board member, and distinguished graduate of the City College of NY. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chairman Herbert Robi
 KLEIN-Robert Mallory, 78, of New York City and Elmore, VT, passed away October 1, 2002 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Statesman, diplomat, artist and author. He began his career as a professor of economics at Hanover College where he taught and married Priscilla Chapman, hi
 McCABE-Thomas B. III. Age 50, on September 30, Haverford, PA. Survived by his wife, Anne (nee Edwards); their twin daughters, Catherine and Christina; and their son, Thomas IV. Funeral services will be Saturday, October 5, at 11 A.M., at the Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church, 625 Montgomery Ave
 OTIS-John Winthrop. Died suddenly in Wilmington, North Carolina on September 10, 2002, at age 72. Born in Bronxville, NY on January 21, 1930, son of Courtlandt and Virginia McCauley Otis, he was graduated from the St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire, in 1948 and attended Princeton U
 PASVOLL-Hal. Best friends for 47 years. New Year's Eve won't be the same without you. You will be missed. Betty and Steven PASVOLL-Harold. Of Monroe Twp, N.J., formerly of Oceanside, N.Y. On October 1, 2002. Beloved husband of Ruth (nee Goodman) for 54 years. Devoted father of Barba
 PETERSON-Wilbur E. (Bill). We, his friends and neighbors at Fire Island Pines, mourn the loss of our exceptional Bill. We extend our condolences to his family and to our fellow Board member, his loving friend Alan Brockman. Congregation B'nai Olam, Fire Island Pines       
 SIEGEL-Seymour J. Dearly loved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, and friend. Passed away on October 1, 2002. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him.       
 SNOWDON-Edward Woodruff. Age 91, died September 27, 2002 at his home in Manalapan, FL. with his family in attendance. Mr. Snowdon graduated from Western High School in Washington, D.C. in 1929 and from Wesleyan University in 1933. He was a Captain in the U.S. Army Signal Corps during World 
 Dr. Thomas B. Turner, an authority on infectious diseases and microbiology who led a vast expansion at the Johns Hopkins University medical school, died on Sept. 22 in Baltimore. He was 100. Dr. Turner spent three-quarters of his life and nearly all of his career at the medical scho
 Walter H. Annenberg, the philanthropist, art collector and former ambassador to Britain who at one time presided over a vast communications empire that included TV Guide and The Philadelphia Inquirer, died yesterday in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 94 and had homes there and in Rancho Mirage, Calif
 Ellis Larkins, a jazz pianist known for his understated elegance as an improviser and his sensitivity as an accompanist, died on Sunday at Maryland General Hospital in Baltimore. He was 79 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Crystal, said. Mr. Larkins 
 Hartland deM. Molson, a former owner of the Montreal Canadiens hockey team and an heir of one of Canada's oldest and most prominent business families, died on Saturday in Montreal. He was 95 and lived in Montreal. The Molson name has been synonymous with beer for more than two centu
 James B. Chapin, a political analyst and historian who advised Mark Green when Mr. Green was public advocate for New York City, died on Monday in Andover, N.J., at a Chapin family residence. He was 60 and lived in Queens. The cause was a heart attack, according to United Press Inter
 James John Peters, the executive director of the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association and a national voice to further research and treatment of spinal cord injuries, died Sept. 6 at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Huntington Station, N.Y. T
 ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn with profound sadness the passing of Walter H. Annenberg, who for more than four decades demonstrated on a breathtaking scale his passion for art and his support of this institution. With his wife, Leonore, h
 BERMAN-Martin H., DDS. It is with great sadness and a deep sense of personal loss that we mark the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Martin H. Berman, a loving, devoted and proud husband, father, grandfather, greatgrandfather, uncle and mentor to students of all ages. Marty served as C
 CHAPIN-James B. WHY is deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and former Board Chairman, James Chapin, on Monday, September 30, 2002. Jim Chapin became a member of the board of WHY (World Hunger Year) at its founding in 1975, and served as Chair from 1980-2001, for 22 of its 27 years.
 EGENOLF - Herbert. The Board of Directors and members of the International Fine Print Dealers Association note with sadness the passing of our colleague, Herbert Egenolf on August 31, 2002, in Dusseldorf, Germany. He was a world-renowned dealer, an expert in Japanese prints of the ukiyo-e w
 GOLDBERG-Hon. Richard A. The Board of The City College Alumni Association is deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved past President, Judge Goldberg, Class of 1951. He rendered outstanding leadership and untiring devotion to the Alumni Association and CCNY. On November 14, Judge Goldbe
 GRANGER - David. The Trustees, Board of Regents and staff of The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine mourn the passing of David Granger, a former Trustee and Regent, and treasured member of the Cathedral family. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife and fellow Regent, Lee Granger
 KOLITZ-Zvi. Yeshiva University is deeply grieved by the passing of a cherished friend and honorary degree recipient, a highly respected scholar, author, film and theatrical producer, who taught Jewish studies at our undergraduate schools. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his beloved wi
 LANDMAN-Gerald, 96. On Sunday, September 29. Devoted uncle, great-uncle, great-great uncle to Hans Hopf, the late Lore Schallinger and Werner Midas; their children and grandchildren. Contributions in his memory may be made to Leo Baeck Institute Archives, 15 West 16 Street, New York, NY 100
 MUFSON-Monroe H., M.D., 76. Of Denville, NJ, passed away October 1, 2002, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Born in the Bronx in 1925 and a graduate of New York University College of Medicine in 1947 at the age of 21, he was a member of the Alpha Omega Alpha Honorary Medical S
 RESNICK-Sol (Rush). Age 84. WW II combat artist, painter and sculptor. Survived by his wife June, daughters Tina and Tamar, grandchildren David and Maia and sister Anna and two nieces. For info ''Wien & Wien'', 800-322-0533.       
 ROSENFIELD-Nathan, Dr. Beloved and loving husband of the late Vivian. Devoted father of Carol Schneebaum, Deborah Hensler and Joanne Tahar. Proud grandfather of Katherine and Jessica Schneebaum; Benjamin and Rebecca Hensler and Matthew Gilbride. Delighted great-grandfather of Charlotte and 
 TERIAN-Peter G. Of Manhattan and East Hampton, passed away at home at the age of 65 on October 2, 2002, after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife, Juliana Curran Terian, an architect, and by his beloved and cherished daughter, Olivia. Peter immigrate
 Bruce Paltrow, a producer and director who strove to incorporate social themes into his television series, most notably ''The White Shadow'' and ''St. Elsewhere,'' died yesterday at a hospital in Rome while there to celebrate the 30th birthday of his Oscar-winning daughter, Gwyneth Paltrow.
 John Weitz, the fashion designer known for licensing a variety of products under his name and for his second career as a novelist and historian, died yesterday at his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his son Christopher said. Mr. Weitz cheerfully 
 Lorian L. Marlantes, president of Rockefeller Group International, a corporation with interests in commercial real estate and telecommunications, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side after a long illness. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn. The famil
 Norman O. Brown, an erudite and spectacularly playful philosopher whose attempt to psychoanalyze nothing less than history itself entranced intellectuals, beguiled New Age seekers and sold many books, died on Wednesday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 89. His son Thomas N. Brown said he
 ANNENBERG-Hon. Walter H. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the passing of a dear friend and esteemed honorary member of AECOM's Board of Overseers. One of America's foremost philanthropists, he was a major Benefactor, both of AECOM and YU. He was among the
 BERNEY-Henry. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and former Trustee and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Ken Simon, President       
 BIERMAN - William. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its beloved long-standing member and officer and extends heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Roselyn Kolodny, Pres.       
 FEINBERG-Stephen H. The Board of Managers and staff of Titan Outdoor and Outdoor Media Corp USA are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Stephen H. Feinberg, our CEO and leader. Steve's dedication, commitment to excellence and love of life was a shining example that will endure in all
 GARZ-Albert. Died October 1st, 2002, at the age of 93. A noted race car driver of years past, he was one of the founding members of the Jaguar Club of North America. He will be greatly missed. The Bordin Family       
 GOLDBERG-Richard A. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Judge Richard A. Goldberg, a graduate of the Class of 1951, past president of the CCNY Alumni Association and former Board member of The City College Fund. Judge Goldberg was a staunch supporter of his Alma Mater and the
 HALPREN-Samuel M. October 2, 2002, of Wynnewood, PA. Husband of Sylvia (nee Lubeck), father of Bruce (Diane) Halpren and Bennett Halpren. Grandfather of David (Corinne) Halpren and Michael Halpren. Relatives and friends are invited to graveside services Friday 1:30 PM at the Har Jehudah Cem
 HARVEY - Gerald Joseph. July 27, 1925-October 2, 2002. We mourn the loss of our loving husband, father, grandfather and brother. While we are deeply saddened, we are relieved that he no longer suffers. Jeff was a wonderful inspiration to those who loved him. His accomplishments include: Ser
 HOCHWALD - Gerald M., MD. Died September 29, 2002. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the NYU School of Medicine and the Members of the Department of Neurology mourn the loss of our friend and colleague Gerald M. Hochwald, MD, Professor of Neurology. A distinguished member of the Department
 JOHNSON-James D. The Officers, Members, Executive Board and Staff of RWDSU/ UFCW Local 338 regret to announce the passing of retired Secretary-Treasurer, James D. Johnson, on October 2, 2002. Mr. Johnson was a member of Local 338 since 1937, and served in a variety of positions. Finally, in
 PALTROW - Bruce. The Trustees, staff and artists of the Williamstown Theatre Festival are profoundly saddened by the loss of Bruce Paltrow. As a writer and director, Bruce demonstrated wit, grace and a passion to raise the stakes. Around the festival, he was a perpetual source of humor and 
 POSNER-Maurice A., M.D. On October 2, 2002. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Jonathan and Daniel. Adoring grandpa of Alexander, Gabrielle and Emily. Services on Friday 9:45AM at Bethel Synagogue, New Rochelle, New York. He cared about people.       
 ROSENFIELD-Nathan, Dr. Beloved and loving husband of the late Vivian. Devoted father of Carol Schneebaum, Deborah Hensler and Joanne Tahar. Proud grandfather of Katherine and Jessica Schneebaum; Benjamin and Rebecca Hensler and Matthew Gilbride. Delighted great-grandfather of Charlotte and 
 SCHWAB-David. April 11, 1921 to October 3, 2002. Loving husband, father, and grandfather. Talented diamond cutter, painter, and sculptor. Through his art he brought pleasure into the lives of others. He died at rest in his home. Funeral Friday October 4, 2002 at 1 PM, Schwartz Bros., 114-03
 TERIAN-Peter G. Of Manhattan and East Hampton, passed away at home at the age of 65 on October 2, 2002, after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife, Juliana Curran Terian, an architect, and by his beloved and cherished daughter, Olivia. Peter immigrate
 TUCK-Edward Hallam. The Board of Directors and staff of the French-American Foundation express their great sadness at the passing of their distinguished friend, Board member and former president. Few people have done more in their lives to strenghten the ties between France and the United S
 Chuck Howard, one of the adventurous young designers who put a distinctly non-Parisian accent on American clothing in the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday at a hospital in Albuquerque. He was 75 and most recently lived in Santa Fe and on the island of Saba, in the Netherlands Antilles.      
 ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Chapin School Community is deeply saddened by the death of Walter H. Annenberg, a Chapin grandfather and our school's friend and most generous benefactor. His many gifts to us include our spacious and beautiful library multimedia center, named in his honor. We extend
 GILMAN-Bertrand J. Passed away on October 4, 2002, in his 76th year, leaving behind longtime companion William J. Stephens.       
 HARVEY - Gerald Joseph. July 27, 1925-October 2, 2002. We mourn the loss of our loving husband, father, grandfather and brother. While we are deeply saddened, we are relieved that he no longer suffers. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, October 6, 2002, 9:45 A.M. at ''The Riverside,
 MILNER-Dr. Anthony, British composer, died suddenly in Spain. Memorial to be held later. Survived by his brothers, Dr. Paul Milner of North Carolina, Rev. Austin Milner O.P., West Indies; his sister, Mia McCarthy & Sr. Patricia Milner, H.C.J., both of Dublin.       
 PALTROW - Bruce. The Trustees, staff and artists of the Williamstown Theatre Festival are profoundly saddened by the loss of Bruce Paltrow. As a writer and director, Bruce demonstrated wit, grace and a passion to raise the stakes. Around the festival, he was a perpetual source of humor and 
 SCHNEIDER-Leon. January 30, 1924-October 3, 2002. We mourn the loss of our loving husband, father, grandfather, uncle and friend. Mr. Schneider was a partner in the wholesale meat business, FlushingZeger, and served as the president of the Board of Directors of the Hewlett Park Association.
 TERIAN-Peter. The Parents, Teachers and staff of Park Avenue Christian Church Day School are deeply saddened by the death of Peter Terian. Devoted father of Olivia and beloved husband of Juliana Curran Terian. He will be missed.       
 TUCK-Edward Hallam. The Board of Directors and President of INFORM express their sorrow at the loss of one of INFORM's founding Board members whose energies and vision shaped INFORM's environmental mission. We extend our sympathies to his wife Liliane and family. Joanna D. Underwood, Pres. 
 WEITZ-John. The directors, staff and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a great spirit and good friend. A celebrated author, historian, designer and entrepreneur, John Weitz was an early supporter and longtime board member of Phoenix House. Committed to our work, he was a generous
 Justice Richard A. Goldberg, an active justice on the New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, died on Monday at a hospital in Warwick, N.Y. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Richard Alan Goldberg was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from City Colle
 Ronald J. Moss, a former advertising executive who was New York State commerce commissioner under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, died Sept. 3 at a nursing home in Port Jefferson, N.Y. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, according to his former wife, Sylvia Moss, who added that Mr. Moss h
 Turk Van Lake, a jazz guitarist and arranger of the swing era, died on Sept. 1 at a Staten Island nursing home. He was 84. Under his original name, Vanig Hovsepian, he was a classical composer. In the 1940's, he began to tour as an arranger, composer and guitarist with bands
 ANNENBERG - Ambassador Walter H. The Trustees and staff of the University of Pennsylvania are deeply saddened by the death of Walter H. Annenberg, an Emeritus Trustee and a member of the Joint Committee of the Trustees of our Annenberg School for Communication. Ambassador Annenberg was a lo
 ASTRACHAN-Dr. Boris M. Died on September 21 at the age of 70. A national leader in the field of administrative and community psychiatry. Former director of the Connecticut Mental Health Center and deputy chairman Yale Psychiatry Department. In 1990, he became professor and head of the Psych
 BIERMAN-William. A long standing devoted friend for over 30 years. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and the members of the Town & Village Synagogue. Norman & Beatrice Pessel       
 DOUGLAS - Malcolm E. (''Ted''), 58. Of Dedham, MA, on September 30, 2002 from cardiac failure. Beloved son of the late Katherine Willauer Douglas and Edward Mills Douglas, fond stepson of Jane Connor Douglas, Vinyard Haven, MA., dearest brother of Elizabeth Mills Douglas, Waukesha, WI., and
 FRIEDMAN-Murray. There was a man! Once in a while, there is someone whose beautiful spirit and caring heart make a difference in the lives of so many. Generous to a fault, creative, wonderful husband to Evelyn, fabulous father to Jackie and Kathy, David and Dennis, loving grandfather to Jam
 HARLEY-Donald F., 66. Of Dover, N.H., died suddenly Wednesday, September 25, 2002. Born April 4, 1936 in Springfield, PA, he was the son of Frederick and Emily (Taylor Jones) Harley. A U.S. Army Veteran he served as a First Lieutenant at Fort Ord, CA. He was a graduate of Drexel Institute o
 JENSEN-Robert Eric. On October 4, 2002. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted brother of Daniel C. Loving uncle of Danielle and the late Karen. His career in public relations included Vice President of A.J. Lazarus for 17 years, prior to that. Vice President of Gibbs and Soell for 10 years. In 
 KART-Harold. You left us too soon. The years we spent together will be cherished forever. We will miss your smiling face and your practical jokes. We will miss your sincerity, honesty, generosity and loving friendship. Your love for your family and friends will be admired forever. You have 
 KESTER-Harold E., 89. Of North Andover, MA, formerly of East Norwich, NY, October 2. Survived by Rose, his wife of 66 years, children Linda & William Cotter and Marjorie and Peter Smith, grandchildren David Cotter and Kellyn Bartlett, Deborah Cotter, Douglas and Elizabeth Smith, Abigail Smi
 PAKTER-Walter Jay. Of Berkeley, CA, on October 2nd at 59 years of age. A native of New York, living in Berkeley, CA for the past 28 years. Practice as an attorney in aviation law in Oakland, CA. A graduate of City College, subsequently earning his PhD at Johns Hopkins in Medieval History; a
 SCHILLER-Edward H., 80. Of Sarasota, FL, formerly of Roslyn Heights, Long Island, and Santa Barbara, CA., died in Sarasota. Boy's High, WWII Trailblazers, consummate teacher, (Professor of History, Nassau and Santa Barbara Community Colleges) with a passion for the ''world of ideas,'' socia
 SCHUMAN-Seymour. On October 5, 2002, at age 86. Born in NYC, attended City College, founder and Chairman of Propper Manufacturing Company, real estate developer in Long Island City and winner of the Tom DeLay Business Leadership Award. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of Ina (and 
 TERIAN-Peter G. The Board of Trustees, Staff, Administration and Families at the New York Foundling Hospital mourn the loss of Peter G. Terian, whose generosity of spirit so enhanced the lives of the thousands of children in our care. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Juliana, 
 TUCK-Edward Hallam. The partners, associates and staff of Shearman & Sterling mourn the death of their distinguished colleague and friend. A visionary, Ed Tuck opened Shearman & Sterling's first overseas office in Paris in 1962. Always at the forefront of international relations and underst
 VAN DEUSEN-John F., Jr. In Old Saybrook, CT, October 1, 2002. John F. Van Deusen Jr. of 2 Downing Way, Madison, CT, formerly of Rye, NY. Husband of Dorothy Stroud Van Deusen. Father of John S. Van Deusen of Bel Air, MD, Susanna V. Walden and Laura H. Van Deusen both of Guilford, CT. Six gra
 VAN NORDEN-Montagnie on Tuesday, October 1, 2002. Cherished husband for 52 years of the former Gwendolyn Olson (Joy). Devoted father of Montagnie Van Norden, Jr., of Concord, MA, Adam Van Norden of Reno, NV, Kristina Van Norden Anderson of Cincinnati, OH and Juliana Van Norden Wynne of West
 WEITZ-John. The directors, staff and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a great spirit and good friend. A celebrated author, historian, designer and entrepreneur, John Weitz was an early supporter and longtime board member of Phoenix House. Committed to our work, he was a generous
 Ralph Lee, a celebrated knight-errant of the British road, who built his own vacation trailer in 1931 and went on to pull it and its 10 successors a distance equal to 20 trips around the world, died on Sept. 18 in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, England. He was 99. In 1999, Queen Eliza
 Prince Claus von Amsberg, husband of Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, died tonight in Amsterdam after a long illness. He was 76. The Dutch prime minister, Jan Peter Balkenende, said the cause of death was pneumonia. The prince's health had declined in recent years, owing to Parkins
 CARROLL-Vincent J. Of Williston Park, NY died peacefully at his home. Past president of St. Aidan's Parish Council, member of St. Aidan's Holy Name Society. Retired Air Corpsman WWII the European and Pacific Theatre. He was a leading authority of the use of antibiotics to treat agricultural
 CLIVE-Robert B. On October 4, 2002, at Albany, NY. Formerly of NYC. Mr. Clive had been the art director of Life magazine, as well as the art director of Time magazine. He was an art director at Ogilvy Mather in NYC, and the art director of the Daily News Magazine. Loving companion of Ellen 
 DANIEL-Eugene E. Of Fair Lawn, NJ, on Sunday, October 6, 2002. He was the retired Director of Finance for the Catholic Charities of New York and St. Joseph's Seminary, Yonkers, NY, which were under the direction of the New York Archdiocese. Mr. Daniel was a 1951 graduate of Regis High Schoo
 FLANAGAN-John D. Born in Washington D.C. on September 21, 1918. Died peacefully at home on October 5, 2002. Attended college at Rutgers University, veteran of WWII 4th Armored Division and retired Chairman of the Board of Authenticolor, Inc. Survived by his wife Kathleen, his children Chris
 FRIEDMAN-Murray. He is best known for his building of a company that was the largest importer of men's fashion footwear in the U.S., and that enabled innumerable families to partake of the fruits of its success. He was ''Murfrini,'' the King. As a salesman he was unstoppable. His charities 
 GOLDMAN - Monroe (Monte). 72, of NYC. Died October 4, of complications from multiple myeloma. His many dear friends, colleagues and family will sorely miss his great wit and charm. Survived by his wife Myrna, children Debi, Danny, Aimee and Gary, his grandchildren Jon, Lindsay, Jeff, Alliso
 JENSEN-Robert Eric. On October 4, 2002. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted brother of Daniel C. Loving uncle of Danielle and the late Karen. His career in public relations included Vice President of A.J. Lazarus for 17 years, prior to that. Vice President of Gibbs and Soell for 10 years. In 
 LAWSON-Erica. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of its esteemed Board of Trustees member and Gabbai, J. Peter Lunzer. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 TUCK-Edward Hallam. The Drawing Center is deeply saddened by the loss of their distinguished Board member, Edward Tuck. Mr. Tuck had been a Board member since the founding of The Drawing Center in 1976. He also served as Chairman of the Board during the institution's first five critical yea
 WEISSMAN-Lester. Of Tenafly, NJ, passed away October 6, 2002, at the age of 80. He is survived by his loving wife of 52 years, Vivian, his sisters Blanche (Leif) and Martha of Queens, NY, and his son Robert of Sunnyvale, CA. A graduate of City College of New York, he was a successful busine
 WEITZ-John. The directors, staff and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a great spirit and good friend. A celebrated author, historian, designer and entrepreneur, John Weitz was an early supporter and longtime board member of Phoenix House. Committed to our work, he was a generous
 Zorach Warhaftig, a rabbi from Byelorussia who persuaded a Japanese diplomat to defy his government's orders and help save several thousand Jews during World War II, died on Sept. 26 in Jerusalem. He was 96. Rabbi Warhaftig also became one of the 37 people who signed Israel's Declar
 W. S. Raines, a retired businessman and investor in real estate in Alabama and Florida, died yesterday at his home in Birmingham. He was 95. The son of Hiram Howell and Mary Jane Raines, Wattie Simeon Raines was born on the family farm in the hills near Curry, Ala., on Sept. 21, 190
 Zvi Kolitz, a film and theatrical producer and a writer whose short story ''Yosl Rakover Talks to God'' became a classic of Holocaust literature, died Sept. 29 in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. While living in Israel in the early 1950's, Mr. Kolitz was a co-writer and 
 The Rev. Anthony C. Campbell, a Baptist minister who gained international acclaim for his powerful oratory and his pluralistic message, died on Sept. 27 at a Boston hospital, three days after a stroke, his family said. He was 63 and lived in Boston. Mr. Campbell grew up steeped in t
 ANNENBERG-Walter. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the death of Walter Annenberg. Deeply committed to humanitarian causes, he was a Founder of the Museum, and his personal commitment to the cause of Holocaust remembrance and to the Museum's mission will be greatly missed. 
 BERGEN - Arthur. Temple Shaaray Tefila is grieved to record the passing of its dedicated member. To his wife Edie and daughters Rebecca and Emily we express our profound sympathy. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, President       
 DUBNICK-Bernard. Age 74, of Old Tappan, NJ, on October 7, 2002. Survived by his wife Selma, children Joshua, Jeffrey, Ruth Levy and Deborah Levy, sister Edith Berger and three grandchildren Micah, Gabriel and Luka. Services are Wednesday, 12 Noon at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt.
 FLANAGAN-John D. Born in Washington D.C. on September 21, 1918. Died peacefully at home on October 5, 2002. Attended college at Rutgers University, veteran of WWII 4th Armored Division and retired Chairman of the Board of Authenticolor, Inc. Survived by his wife Kathleen, his children Chris
 FRIEDMAN-Murray. On October 5th, 2002. Beloved and devoted husband of Evelyn. Wonderful father to Jackie and Kathy, David and Dennis. Fabulous grandfather of Jamie, Jodi, Jason and Kim. Loving brother of Howard and Muriel Friedman, Eunice and Dr. Solomon Kaplan, and the late Carol and Dr. M
 FUCHS-Stanley. A retired Professor Emeritus from Fordham University, passed away on Saturday, October 5 in Needham, MA. He was 68. A Brooklyn native, Fuchs was born on July 21, 1934. He graduated with high honors in English from City College of New York in 1955. Mr. Fuchs received his L.L.B
 GUTSCHMIT - Marvin. Of Spring Lake, New Jersey, died Saturday, October 5, at home. He was 76 years old. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he grew up in New Brunswick, NJ. He was a Navy Veteran serving in the South Pacific in WWII. Mr. Gutschmit lived in Elmsford, NY, and New York City before retiring t
 HABER-Jerome D. The Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of Jerome D. Haber and offer our deepest sympathy to his wife Dorothy, his children and the entire Haber family. Mel Konner, President       
 HOFFMAN-Col. Leo L. In his 96th year, on October 6, 2002. Adored husband and extraordinary partner to his wife Grace. Loyal and loving to all who knew him. He was a valiant soldier, a brilliant lawyer and a faithful friend. Private services were held. HOFFMAN-Leo. The Board of Direc
 PRENNER-Jack. On October 7, 2002, age 94. Dear uncle of Edward Prenner and loving great-uncle of Emily and Elizabeth. An extraordinary musician and a link to the great days of the Broadway musical theatre, where for many years he was the coach and rehearsal pianist for Rodgers, Hart, Hammer
 TUCK-Edward Hallam. The Members of the Board of Directors of the Belgian American Educational Foundation mourn the loss of their colleague and friend, deceased in New York City. Edward Tuck served as Director of B.A.E.F. for 46 years. His strong support and wise counsel will be sorely misse
 WACHS-Moses. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System sadly mourn the untimely passing of Moses Wachs, beloved former executive director of Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center. For nearly three decades he demonstrated a true and real concern for the needs and dignity
 WILSON-William. The Bard College community deeply mourns the passing of William Wilson '48, a beloved teacher of literature and the humanities for four decades at Bard. He was a dear friend of the college and, above all, an inspiring teacher and advisor. Generations of Bard students are ind
 ZANGER-Carl Lewy. Died October 6, 2002, born in New York City in 1931, graduate of Hamilton College, Harvard Law School. He also served in the U.S. Army. Served as Chairman of the Committee on Art Law of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York at a time when important legislation
 Richard T. Foster, an architect who collaborated with Philip Johnson in reshaping the New York University campus in the 1970's, died on Sept. 13 in Danbury, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Wilton, Conn., in a revolving house of his own design. A round house was no departure for Mr. Fos
 Anthony Mazzocchi, a longtime union official who was a pioneer in the occupational safety movement and the founder of the six-year-old Labor Party, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, Labor Party officials said. In his year
 Daniel Deverell Perry, a Long Island architect who created the marble temple of art housing the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Mass., died Oct. 2 in Woodstock, N.Y. A longtime resident of Port Jefferson, N.Y., he was 97. He was born in Buffalo and was a 1
 David B. Charnay, former chief executive of Four Star Television Productions, died last Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Calabasas, Calif. Mr. Charnay was also president and chairman of Four Star, which both produced and distributed many television prog
 ALFIERI-John B. Of New York City, died on Tuesday October 8, 2002, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. Born to Mary and Victor Alfieri on January 16, 1928. He graduated Bronx High School of Science, University of Notre Dame, and Brooklyn Law School. He practiced commercial and internationa
 ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Trustees and staff of the British Museum, the Chairman and staff of the British Museum Development Trust and the Directors and staff of the American Friends of the British Museum, record with great sadness the death of Walter H. Annenberg. He was a great man and a mu
 BIGGERT-Michael Louis, 47. Of Manhattan, died suddenly over the weekend at his home. Son of the late Colonel Joseph Biggert and the late Lynda Jean Biggert (nee Simmons). A graduate of Brooklyn College with a career spanning over 20 years, Michael recently retired as an assistant vice presi
 CIMBOL-Gerald. The Jewish Labor Committee family, deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend, Jerry Cimbol, extend heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife and our beloved friend and colleague, Natalie, their children Deborah and Jeff Weintraub, William and Robyn Cimbol, David and Shar
 COLISH-Harry J. A resident of New York City died on October 7th. Mr. Colish wishes to thank his friends for the kindness and affection they have shown to him over the past few years, with special thanks to those friends with whom he was closest in his later life. Funeral services Wednesday,
 CYMBOL - Irwin P., 65. Passed away October 7, 2002. Loving father of Todd and Bradley Cymbol. Cherished father-in-law of Nina Cymbol. Devoted husband. He will be remembered in the early years for his dedication and sacrifice to his sons on and off the playing fields. In the latter years, fo
 DANIEL-Eugene E. The Board of Directors and management of Catholic Guardian Society acknowledge with deep regret the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague, Eugene E. Daniel. He was both a valued member of our Board and a dear friend whose wisdom and support will be greatly missed. Our th
 FRANTZ-Leroy Jr., 74. Longtime Greenwich resident. October 5th at his home in Washington Depot, CT. Beloved husband of Sheila. Father of Ted, Scott, Chris, Stephanie, Joanie and Heather. Services at St. Barnabas Church in Greenwich, today, 11AM. Donations to New Milford Hospital Cancer Cent
 GLENN-Gerard D., 74. Of Park Ridge, NJ on Tuesday, October 8, 2002. Beloved husband of Margaret (nee Bock). Devoted father of Thomas Glenn of No. Haledon, NJ. Dear brother of Floria Dignam of Asbury Park, NJ. Funeral Mass 9:30 Thursday at Our Lady of Mercy R.C. Church, Park Ridge, NJ. Visit
 KRAMER-Emmanuel J. Of Lake Worth, Florida, passed away on Monday afternoon, October 7. He was the beloved husband of Sally Kramer to whom he was married 60 years. Wonderful father of Howard, David and Fred Kramer and loving brother to Ruth Perlman and Helen Bader. Cherished grandfather of N
 PARKINSON-Samuel Dexter. Age 80, of Lyme, CT, and formerly of Laurel Hollow, New York, died October 7th 2002. He was born August 7, 1922 in Stockton, California. His wife of 48 years Ann, children, Elizabeth Terry Smith and husband Brant, of Essex, CT, Louisa Evans and husband Robert of Fis
 ROTHSTEIN-Joshua Aaron, 15, tragically struck by an automobile. Infinitely cherished son of Steven and Nancy (nee Horwich). Adored brother of Caroline and Natalie. Dear grandson of Adrienne and the late Joshua Rothstein and Layne and the late Harris Horwich. Beloved nephew of Ken (Sarah Sch
 RUDMAN-Harry W. Age 94, died Oct. 7, 2002. Survived by wife Judith, daughters Janet, Margery (Ormond) and Anita (Sid) & adored grandchildren Naomi, Jacob and Rachel. Professor Emeritus CUNY 1929-1977; author, historian & World War II Army Air Force Veteran. He wrote the history of the Fifth
 Robert H. Fust, who was executive director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities for two decades and built it into an effective advocate for the state's cities and towns, died on Oct. 4 at a hospice in Denver. He was 78. The cause was cancer, league officials said.       
 Albert A. Walsh, a top New York housing official in the Rockefeller and Lindsay administrations who helped bring public and private interests together to build cheaper housing, died yesterday in Red Bank, N.J. He was 74 and lived in Red Bank. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter 
 Chuck Rayner, the Hall of Fame goaltender who starred for usually lackluster Rangers teams in the decade after World War II, died last Sunday at his home in Langley, British Columbia. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Playing 10 seasons in the Nationa
 ALFIERI-John B. Of New York City, died on Tuesday October 8, 2002, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. Born to Mary and Victor Alfieri on January 16, 1928. He graduated Bronx High School of Science, University of Notre Dame, and Brooklyn Law School. He practiced commercial and internationa
 BALLETTA-Frank A. S & M Klein Company will deeply miss the skills, loyalty and friendship of Frank A. Balletta. We are grateful that he played a part in leading us into the 21st Century. Steven J. Klein Martin P. Klein BALLETTA-Frank A. How do I thank you for being such a great frie
 CHUCK-Henry R. Of Brookline, MA. formerly of New York City on Wednesday, October 9th. Beloved husband of the late Jessika (Kolken) Chuck. Loving father of Bill and his wife Maxine of Brookline, MA. Adored grandfather of Elizabeth and Jennifer. Services in Brookline, MA. on Friday, October 1
 COLISH-Harry J. A resident of New York City died on October 7th. Mr. Colish wishes to thank his friends for the kindness and affection they have shown to him over the past few years, with special thanks to those friends with whom he was closest in his later life. Funeral services Wednesday,
 DARELL - Constant. Died peacefully on October 5, 2002 in New York Presbyterian Hospital after a brief illness. Devoted husband of the late Hedy (nee Gunther), to whom he was married for fifty-six years. Beloved father of Edward, loving father-inlaw to Joan. Proud grandfather of Jason and Ni
 DONALDSON-Kenneth T., M.D. Age 89, died on October 6, 2002 in Palm City, FL. Practiced medicine at Roosevelt Hospital in New York City for 40 years. Survived by his wife, Betty, his children Linda, Bob and his wife Amy and Tom and his wife Theresa. and five grandchildren. A memorial service
 KRAUS-Kenneth M. On October 8, 2002. Of Lattingtown, L.I. Adored husband of Susan. The best dad to Elizabeth and Gisbert, Jennifer and Elan. Our most cherished friend now and forever. He is also survived by his mother, Marion Kraus and his brother Robert Kraus. He will always be in our thou
 MANN-Ivin. On October 8, 2002. Former President of the Board of Trustees of Fountain House, Inc., having served as a Trustee for over 50 years. He is survived by his sons Henry and Peter, his grandchildren Jennifer and David, and his loving companion of many years, Elaine Felsher. Contribut
 MERINO - Frank Joseph. Died Saturday, October 5, 2002, tragically struck by an automobile while riding his bicycle. Graduated from Browning High School and Fordham University. Proud parent of Daniel and Jessica Merino. Successful businessman in Novato, CA. Dear and devoted son of Drs. Franc
 NICHOLS-Nancy. The Board of Directors, Scientific Advisory Committee, Fellows and staff of the Irvington Institute for Immunological Research extend their deepest sympathies to our friend and colleague, Rodney Nichols, on the untimely loss of his beloved wife, Nancy. Our heartfelt condolenc
 RAFF-Leonard. On October 8, 2002. Loving father of Susan and her husband Kevin Pflaumer, adoring grandfather of Jared and Sofia, dear brother of Irma Nemoytin and the late Siena. He worked for CBS News in New York for 53 years as a broadcast editor. He covered history making events like the
 ROTH-Sidney. Beloved husband of Maria Roth died on August 20th, 2002. Loving husband, brother, brother-in-law and uncle. A simple, generous man with a firm handshake and an easy smile, he was most at home on the open road. He served his country with honor and distinction, first in the U.S. 
 ROTHSTEIN - Josh Aaron. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of this caring and gracious young man. His energy, enthusiasm and passion will be remembered forever. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family and friends, and all who share in this loss. Sharyn Mann, Todd Slotkin,
 RUSS-Peter A. Born March 10, 1945, and died October 9, 2002. He is survived by his loving family, Jill Baker-Russ, Jordan E. Russ, Carey P. Russ and Aero Sebastian. Please join us to celebrate his life on Friday, the 11th of October, 1:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81s
 SWEE-Eugene, of Riverdale, NY, passed away October 6, at age 83. He is survived by his wife, Joan; two siblings, three children, and six grandchildren. He was an international businessman, owned several companies, actively supported the arts, and rooted for NY teams. He loved jazz, internat
 WALSH-Albert A. Of Red Bank, NJ formerly of Crestwood, NY on October 9, 2002. Beloved husband of Nan. Loving father of Maryellen, Nanette, Mark and the late Gregg Walsh. Dear grandfather of Michael, Stephen and Mark. Devoted brother of Sister Marie Albert, O.S.U. and Roslyn Gilligan. Also s
 WALSH-Albert J. What a great shock and what a great loss to the people of The City of New York. Al was the premier expert in the field of subsidized housing for persons of limited income. Having served as Deputy Commissioner of The State Division of Housing, and Community Renewal, and there
 WEISS-Stephen Arnold. Of North Salem, NY on October 9, 2002 at his home following a courageous fight with cancer. A lifelong athlete and horseman, he was Joint Master of the Golden's Bridge Hounds in North Salem. He enjoyed running every morning on the dirt roads surrounding his home. In wi
 Ben Eastman, who became the world's fastest quarter-mile and half-mile runner 70 years ago only to meet frustration in the Olympics, died Sunday at his home in Hotchkiss, Colo. He was 91. From 1932 to 1934, Eastman set the world records outdoors at 400 meters, 440 yards, 500 meters,
 Charles Guggenheim, an Oscar-winning documentary filmmaker who focused on American life and who was an early producer of advertisements for political campaigns, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 78. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. In a career of nearl
 Jim Seymour, an early and influential technical writer who explained the benefits and headaches of personal computers for two decades in enthusiasts' periodicals like PC Week and PC Magazine, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 60. The cause was complications fro
 ALFIERI-John B. Of New York City, died on Tuesday October 8, 2002, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. Born to Mary and Victor Alfieri on January 16, 1928. He graduated Bronx High School of Science, University of Notre Dame, and Brooklyn Law School. He practiced commercial and internationa
 ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Members of the Royal Academy of Arts, the Trustees of the Royal Academy Trust and the Trustees of the American Associates of the Royal Academy Trust express great sadness at the passing of Ambassador Walter H. Annenberg. During their tenure at the Court of St. James'
 BALLETTA-Frank A. S & M Klein Company will deeply miss the skills, loyalty and friendship of Frank A. Balletta. We are grateful that he played a part in leading us into the 21st Century. Steven J. Klein Martin P. Klein BALLETTA-Frank A. How do I thank you for being such a great frie
 BERMAN-Sol, 94 years old of Palm Beach, Florida, on October 10. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Adored father, grandfather and great-grandfather of Gail & Alan Levenstein, Barbara and Martin Weinburg, Arthur Rosenstein, Miranda, Jessica & Antony Levenstein, Bonnie and Scott Rogoff and f
 COTT-Jerome M. A devoted and loving husband, father, grandfather and brother, passed away on October 8, 2002 in Dallas. He was born March 15, 1938, in Port Chester, NY to Harry and Vera Cott. Jerry graduated from Dartmouth College in 1959 and married Lynn Roth in 1957. Jerry was a former Ci
 HAIMOVICI-Dr. Robert. Of Weston, Massachusetts, on Wednesday, October 9, 2002. Beloved husband of Jeanne Ackman Haimovici. Loving father of Claudia and Andrew. Dear son of Herman and Renee Haimovici. He was dedicated to his family, friends and profession. Services will be held on Friday. Fo
 KALLMAN - Jonathan. Of Highland Park, NJ. Wife Amy, children Natasha and Joseph, parents Audrey and the late David, and sisters Sandy and Evie mourn the loss of Jonathan. Mr. Kallman was associate director of market regulation at the Security and Exchange Commission in Washington, DC., inst
 KRAUS-Kenneth. We are saddened by the loss of our magical friend. His good humor, generous spirit and sage advice were but a few of the qualities from which we benefited and which we will now miss. Our sincerest condolences to Susan, Elizabeth, Gisbert, Jennifer and Elan. Arlyn, Owen, Sally
 MANN-Ivin. On October 8, 2002. Former President of the Board of Trustees of Fountain House, Inc., having served as a Trustee for over 50 years. He is survived by his sons Henry and Peter, his grandchildren Jennifer and David, and his loving companion of many years, Elaine Felsher. Contribut
 WALSH-Albert J. What a great shock and what a great loss to the people of The City of New York. Al was the premier expert in the field of subsidized housing for persons of limited income. Having served as Deputy Commissioner of The State Division of Housing, and Community Renewal, and there
 WEISS-Stephen Arnold. His fellow members and Joint Masters of the Golden's Bridge Hounds are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend. We will remember and honor his dedication and love for our sport and countryside. Our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife Gretchen and children.
 Bernard H. Ridder Jr., a third-generation newspaper executive who spent the years after college moving westward to help manage Ridder Publications' new properties and eventually rose to be the company's president and chief executive, died on Thursday at his home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 
 Edward H. Tuck, a New York lawyer who specialized in international business and helped advance the development and application of international business law, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said Bryan Close, a spokesman for Shearman & Sterli
 Eric Hoskins, the rapper known as Money Ray who performed with the Cold Crush Brothers, an influential early rap group, died on Oct. 3 in the Bronx. He was 38. The cause was liver cancer, his sister, Deborah Hoskins-Simmons, said. Mr. Hoskins joined the Cold Crush Brothers i
 L. H. Fountain, a former North Carolina congressman whose investigation first exposed the scope of the Billie Sol Estes scandal of the 1960's, died on Thursday at a retirement home in Raleigh, N.C. He was 89 and a resident of Tarboro, N.C. Mr. Fountain, a lawyer and conservative Dem
 ALFIERI-John B. Our partner for many years, John was a superb professional, a wise counselor and a man of the greatest integrity. But more than that, he was a close, dear, and loyal friend. We mourn him deeply. Alfieri, Frohman & Primoff, LLP       
 ANNENBERG-Hon. Walter. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend, Walter Annenberg. His generosity, and deep knowledge of and love for the arts have set an extraordinary example for future generations. We ext
 ASSAEL - Bernard. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Bernard Assael. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Diana, and family. Stuart Herz, President       
 BERMAN-Sol, 94 years old of Palm Beach, Florida, on October 10. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Adored father, grandfather and great-grandfather of Gail & Alan Levenstein, Barbara and Martin Weinburg, Arthur Rosenstein, Miranda, Jessica & Antony Levenstein, Bonnie and Scott Rogoff and f
 DuBRIN-Harry L. Jr. Age 81. Of Altamont and NYC died Friday, Oct. 11, 2002 in Albany. He was the Managing Director of Pension Assets for Metropolitan Life Insurance Company & former Assistant Director and Legal Counsel for New York State Teachers' Retirement System. He is survived by his wi
 GLIEDMAN - Richard. De parted suddenly on October 10, 2002. Our beloved friend, husband of Carole, father of Shari, Lesley - Anne and Pamela. Brother of Monroe. Adoring grandfather of Zachary, Ethan and Lindsay, Jack and Josephine, Maxwell, Benjamin, Zachary and Alexandra. Graduate of Bronx
 OLDEN-Bert, 85. Of New York City, died in his home of a heart attack on October 10, 2002. His humor, generosity, integrity and adventuresome spirit made him a unique and specially loved man. His loss is mourned deeply by his daughters, Melanie and Dany, his relatives in California, and the 
 RICE-Herbert. We mourn the passing of Herbert Rice, the father of our esteemed partner, Glenn B. Rice. Herbert Rice was a war hero and a man of integrity who had a zest for life. Our thoughts and sympathies are with Rhoda, Herbie's wife of 40 years, Glenn and his wife Daryle, Amy and Fred G
 WALSH-Albert A., The Partners, Counsel, Associates and Staff of Seward & Kissel LLP deeply mourn the passing on October 9 of Albert A. Walsh, our esteemed partner and friend. Al was a valued member of the Firm's Real Estate practice for over 25 years and his contribution to the practice of 
 WOOD-Rev. William T., S.J. On October 10, 2002. Survived by his nieces Rosemary Petrie, Maureen Koenke, Kathleen Roberts and Mary Ellen Galasso, 12 grand nieces and nephews and seven greatgrandnieces and nephews. Reposing at St. Ignatius Loyola Rectory, 980 Park Avenue, Sunday, October 13, 
 Frank X. Barron, a psychologist whose work on creativity influenced a generation of researchers, died on Oct. 6 in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 80. The cause was complications from a fall, his family said. Psychology has become increasingly specialized over the years, but Dr. B
 ALFIERI-John B. Our partner for many years, John was a superb professional, a wise counselor and a man of the greatest integrity. But more than that, he was a close, dear, and loyal friend. We mourn him deeply. Alfieri, Frohman & Primoff, LLP       
 ANNENBERG-Walter H. It is with great sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the death of Walter H. Annenberg, an Academy Fellow, who passed away October 1, 2002. Ambassador to Britain during the Nixon presidency, Annenberg was an art collector and renowned publisher wh
 ASSAEL-Bernard. On October 10, 2002. Beloved husband of Diana. Devoted father of Ivan, Stacey and Yianni, and Dawn. Adored Pa Bernie to Bryan and Ian and adored Grandpa to Kristina and Brandon. We will never forget your warm smile, gentle touch, and most of all your love. You will always be
 BERMAN-Sol, 94 years old of Palm Beach, Florida, on October 10. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Adored father, grandfather and great-grandfather of Gail & Alan Levenstein, Barbara and Martin Weinburg, Arthur Rosenstein, Miranda, Jessica & Antony Levenstein, Bonnie and Scott Rogoff and f
 BINUS-Rabbi Seth. Passed away on September 27, 2002, 21 Tishrei, 5763, Hoshanah Rabah. Loving husband of Deena Binus. Adoring father of Sarah Devora and Shulamis Yaffa. Beloved son of Alixandra Kolbe and Gregory Binus, Peter Kolbe, Gale Binus. Loving son-in-law of Phyllis, James Frank. Devo
 CALDER - Russell James. Humanitarian and leader/ educator in the residential interior design community, died at his home on October 8, 2002. Born in New York City on August 16, 1949 to Ang J. Calder and Dorothy (Teddee) E. Calder. Mr. Calder was educated at Southampton College of Long Islan
 CLIVE-Robert. Passed away on October 4, 2002. Bob had a distinguished career as Art Director of Life Magazine, the Best of Life, Time Magazine, the Daily News Magazine and Ogilvy & Mather. During his latter years, he returned to his roots as an artist and sculptor. Survived by Mella, Peter,
 DUVIVIER-Max U. The faculty, administration, students, alumni and staff of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University offer our heartfelt sympathy to Dr. Roger Duvivier, president of the Einstein Alumni Association and member of the Class of '74, on the passing of his bel
 GREEN-Robert E., M.D., 81. Of Short Hills, N.J. died October 8, 2002. Born in Brooklyn on March 30, 1921, a son of Bud, a well-known song and movie music writer, and Nan, a Ziegfield show girl. He was a practicing neurosurgeon (1951-1992); Chief of Neurosurgery at Saint Barnabas Medical Cen
 HORAN-Richard A., age 60. Of Indianapolis, IN, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, and New Haven, CT. Died suddenly Sunday, October 6, in Indiana. He was the son of the late Harold A. and Helen M. Horan. Survived by his former wife, Mary Lou Horan of New Haven; two sons, Thomas C. of NYC, Gregory M. 
 KERMELIS - Francois George. Died unexpectedly on Wednesday October 9th at New York United Hospital Medical Center in Port Chester, New York. He was 55 years old. Francois George was of Greek descent and immigrated to the United States in 1968, receiving his United States citizenship in 1993
 McLENDON-Robert G. The Board of Directors and the shareholders of the 180 Tenants Corporation record with deep sorrow the loss of our beloved neighbor, friend and Board President. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Barbara and family.       
 RICE-Herbert L. On October 11, 2002. Beloved husband of Rhoda. Loving father of Glenn, Amy and Susan. Adoring grandfather of Nikki, Max, Jennifer and Stacey. Service Sunday, 2:30 PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. RICE-Herbert. We mourn the passing of Herbert
 ROSENZWEIG - Martin, 83. Artist of Kings Point, NY, of congestive heart failure on Friday, October 11, 2002. In a career that spanned 50 years in graphic arts, he created films, designed magazines, books and exhibits, and specialized in drawings of the human figure. He obtained a BS from Ci
 SAXE-Edward L. War Intelligence, CBS Executive, MoMA Director, Harvard Club of New York President, Architectural Consultant, died at Memorial Sloan-Kettering July 27, 2002 at age 86. Loving husband, father, grandfather and friend, Edward L. Saxe was born on January 17, 1916 in Boston, MA., 
 SOLOMON-Sidney. October 9, 2002 after 91 years. Survived by his wife, children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and countless students and friends.       
 SWEET-Joseph Mark. 43, of Minneapolis, MN died suddenly on October 4th 2002. Born on September 13th, 1959 in Hartford CT, Joe grew up in South Windsor. Joe pursued a successful career in advertising for over 20 years, with the multiple award-winning BMW short film series as his most recent 
 TRESTYN-Alan K. Beloved husband of Susan. Devoted father of Jonathan and Erica. Dear son of Mildred and Helga. Loving brother of Beverly and Cary. He was dedicated to his family, friends, and his profession. Alan always gave of his good humor, generous spirit, and sage advice. Services will
 TUCK-Edward. North Country School and Camp Treetops would like to express their deep sorrow at the loss of Edward Tuck. Ed was on the Board of Trustees from 1975 thru 1986, serving as Board Chair from 1978-1986. We thank Ed for his many years of support and service to NCS and CTT, and exten
 WALSH-Albert A. The housing community has lost a true giant in the field. His legacy has inspired a generation to share his commitment for decent and affordable housing for New Yorkers.       
 WOOD-Rev. William T., S.J. On October 10, 2002. Survived by his nieces Rosemary Petrie, Maureen Koenke, Kathleen Roberts and Mary Ellen Galasso, 12 grand nieces and nephews and seven greatgrandnieces and nephews. Reposing at St. Ignatius Loyola Rectory, 980 Park Avenue, Sunday, October 13, 
 EISENSTEIN-Alvin Gordon. Remembered always by his loving family and friends. 10/12/15-10/26/87.       
 KLEBAN-Milton. In loving remembrance of his 100th birthday, October 12.       
 Eddie Hausner, a photographer for The New York Times whose subjects over a five-decade career ranged from poor people in the South to Joe Namath with a white llama rug, died on Saturday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 76 and lived in Fair Lawn, N.J. The cause was a stro
 James Searles, who elevated the lightning-fast form of checkers played mainly by black men in barbershops, parks and sidewalks to the province of an exclusive if distinctly clamorous society -- the Brooklyn Elite Pool Checker Club -- died in Brooklyn on Oct. 5. He was 90. A retired 
 ABELES-James David. Age 86 of Basking Ridge, NJ on October 9, 2002. Beloved husband of Mary Elizabeth (Campbell) Abeles, devoted father of Elizabeth Kirkland Heald, grandfather of two and step-grandfather of four. He was predeceased by first wife Elizabeth Brunet Abeles and his son James Br
 EICHLER-Thomas J. On October 11, 2002. Retired Vice President of Bankers Trust Company. Survived by his loving wife Clare, five children, and three grandchildren.       
 ROSOW-Jerome M. 82, died October 11, 2002, following heart surgery. Chairman and founder of Work in America Institute in Scarsdale. He committed his life to improving the work lives of all Americans and the productivity of the U.S. economy. Assistant Secretary of Labor 1969-1971. Chair, Pre
 WEISS-Walter. On October 12, 2002 at 80 years of age. We mourn the passing of our beloved husband, father, and grandfather. His unique zest for life and 54 year devotion to the ''21 Club'' were unparalleled. He will forever remain in our hearts and will be lovingly remembered. Services at R
 Stephen E. Ambrose, the military historian and biographer whose books recounting the combat feats of American soldiers and airmen fueled a national fascination with the generation that fought World War II, died yesterday at a hospital in Bay St. Louis, Miss. Mr. Ambrose, who lived in Bay St
 Alphonse Chapanis, a founder of ergonomics, a branch of engineering that considers product and workplace design from the physical point of view of the actual user, died on Oct. 4 in Baltimore. He was 85. Dr. Chapanis, a Johns Hopkins University professor who received a Ph.D. in psyc
 CARAS-Tracy A. A valued friend, colleague and partner at Whitman & Ransom, Whitman Breed Abbott & Morgan and Winston & Strawn, died on October 13, 2002 after a long courageous fight with brain cancer. We will miss him.       
 LaDUE-Russell Morsby. On October 14, 2002. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle. His sweet nature, intelligence, love of life, gentle good humor and genuine affection for others, made Russ an adored figure to all who knew him. The family will be home to visitors from 4 PM
 LIFSCHULTZ-Sidney. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Sidney Lifschultz. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to all the members of his family and friends. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Stan Brett
 TURECK-Michael. Beloved husband for 65 years of Yetta. Cherished father of Arlene (Joseph) Crystal, Robin (Lester) Rackoff and Jeffrey (Sharyn) Tureck. Loving grandfather of Lori, Robert, Jamie, Brett, Brian, Matthew, Deborah. Adoring Big Poppa of Jaylin and devoted younger brother of Irvin
 WEISS-Walter. '21' Club mourns the loss of Walter Weiss, maitre d' extraordinaire and beloved family member for over 54 years. He will be sorely missed by the habitues of '21' and, most certainly, by every member of the '21' staff who worked with him over the years. '21' joins together in s
 Walter Weiss, the legendary matre d'htel at the ''21'' Club, who juggled tycoons, movie stars and politicians to answer a terrifying question -- who gets the best table and who goes to Siberia? -- died on Saturday in White Plains. He was 80 and lived in Whitestone, Queens. The c
 Bill Green, a United States representative from Manhattan who served for seven terms and was dedicated to the liberal Republican tradition of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and Senator Jacob K. Javits, died on Monday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 72. The cause was liver canc
 Keith W. Uncapher, an engineer who oversaw seminal work in computer networking, especially on the underpinnings of what became the Internet, died last Thursday. He was 80 and lived in the Playa del Rey district of Los Angeles. The cause was a heart attack he suffered while flying fr
 GREEN-S. William (Bill). On October 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Freiberg). Devoted and cherished father of Cathy Green and Louis Green. Dear brother of Cynthia Green Colin. Fond brother-in-law of Carole and Marvin Leichtung. Loving uncle of nieces, Julie, Laura, Ann and Betsy
 LaDUE-Russell Morsby. On October 14, 2002. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle. His sweet nature, intelligence, love of life, gentle good humor and genuine affection for others, made Russ an adored figure to all who knew him. The family will be home to visitors from 4 PM
 PHILLIPS-Ronald H. Of New Orleans, LA. Formerly of New York City, died on October 10, 2002. He was 70 years old. Ron was the General Manager of the Fountain Bay Club in New Orleans and an executive at CBS, ITC and Columbia Screen Gems in New York City. He is survived by his children Christo
 ROSS-Edward T., 72. Of Glen Cove, NY on October 15, 2002. Cherished husband of Bonnie, (and the late Barbara Furgatch), beloved father of David, Stephen and Debra; stepfather of Cheryl Yifrach, Michelle Ressel and Julie Avenarius. Treasured grandfather of nine. Services Thursday, October 17
 WEISSBERG-Charlotte R. Of Newton, MA, formerly of New York City, on Friday, October 11, 2002. Loving mother of Alexander Weissberg Walker and Marya Weissberg Walker, both of Newton, MA. Devoted sister of Dr. Michael P. Weissberg & his wife Susan of Boulder, CO. Beloved aunt of Nico Weissber
 WOLFF-Carl T., M.D. Passed away with valor in the face of colon cancer on October 14 at the age of 71. Beloved husband of Carolyn Chaliff. Devoted father of Leslie Culhane, Andrew E. Wolff and Jonathan M. Wolff. Admired father-in-law of Myles Culhane. Proud grandfather of Jackson Culhane. C
 Seymour Rexite, a onetime matinee idol of the Yiddish theater and radio, died on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 91, his nephew Mel Friedman said. A high, sweet tenor, Mr. Rexite had a career arc that swung from singing for Calvin Coolidge to playing host to a televi
 BORENSTEIN-William. Age 59. Passed away on October 15, 2002 after a brief illness. Devoted husband of Laura Nowak, loving father of Lea and Lou, cherished brother of Reva Metzger, Elie Rosenberg and Ruth Maass. Contributions in his name may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Israel H
 CALVOCORESSI-John L., 85. Died October 14 in Middle Haddam, CT. He is survived by a daughter, J. Zelie Tourais of Kingwood, TX; two sons, Leonidas J. Calvocoressi of Watertown, CT, and Thomas J. Calvocoressi of Berlin, CT, one sister, Helen Offenhauser of New Canaan, CT. He was predeceased 
 CUTLER-Joseph Albert III of New York City passed away October 13, 2002. Born May 1, 1930 in Evanston, IL. Upon graduation from the University of Wisconsin, he entered the Navy and served during the Korean War on the U.S.S. Bonhomme Richard in 1955, after serving in the Navy, he joined Johns
 DEUTSCH-Hans P. Passed away on October 16, 2002 at the age of 78. Born in 1924 in Vienna, Austria and immigrated to Mexico in 1939. He graduated from the Mexican Polytechnic School as a Chemical Engineer, after which he owned and operated a glass factory. In 1977 he moved to New York where 
 GREEN-S. William (Bill). On October 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Freiberg). Devoted and cherished father of Cathy Green and Louis Green. Dear brother of Cynthia Green Colin. Fond brother-in-law of Carole and Marvin Leichtung. Loving uncle of nieces, Julie, Laura, Ann and Betsy
 GUY-Edward, 88. Of Somers, NY, October 13, 2002. Beloved husband of Alice; cherished father of Joyce, Christine and Peter; devoted grandfather of Melissa, Kristopher, Kimberly and Adam. Graduate of Hamilton College and Harvard Law School. Thirty-nine year career in the Federal Reserve Syste
 LEVY-Morton J. Of the Berkshires and Boca Raton, FL, after a valiant battle with cancer. Born and raised in NYC. Saw distinguished service as Army Air Force pilot with 62 missions over enemy territory in WWII. Married in 1943 to Georgette Rosenthal. He was the third generation of his family
 Dr. Ronald A. Malt, a Boston surgeon who made medical history 40 years ago when he oversaw the first successful reattachment of a human limb, died on Oct. 5 in Wellesley, Mass. He was 70. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Dr. Malt was 30 
 Victor E. Botnick, who at age 32 was one of Mayor Edward I. Koch's most influential aides and head of the New York City's hospital system, died yesterday in an ambulance on the way to a hospital in Yonkers. He was 47. He had a seizure at his home in Yonkers and died of gastrointesti
 Allen Walker Read, a playful prospector of the American tongue who hunted down the source of words like Dixie and Podunk, phrases like the almighty dollar and, most famous of all, those ubiquitous initials, O.K., died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 96. A longtime Engl
 ALPERT-Abraham. Emunah of America mourns the loss of our highly esteemed and generous benefactor, Abraham Alpert, who together with his wife Sunny, a National Vice President, were founders of our organization and established the Tova Chapter in Manhattan. We extend our heartfelt condolences
 ARMSTRONG - Jack Ar mond, 77. Of Bath, OH, died peacefully on October 15, 2002 surrounded by family members. He served his country on Iwo Jima in WWII; he worked for the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co for 40 years. He leaves behind his wife of 55 years, Marva (nee Bartholomew), his children Patr
 BOLTER-Herbert H. Passed away Wednesday, October 16, 2002. He was 86 years of age and a devoted husband of the late Sylvia. Beloved father of Bruce, Gladys Koenig (Randy) and Marilyn Leshowitz (Bruce). Loving grandfather of Jonathan (Gina) Cooper, Robin Cooper and Allison Leshowitz. Great g
 BORENSTEIN-William. His friends and neighbors at 143 West 13 Street mourn the untimely passing of the President of their cooperative. His boundless energy, total dedication and warmth of spirit will be sorely missed by all of us. Our love and comfort to Laura, Lea and Lou. The Village Mews 
 COOK-James. A leading figure in the growth of Forbes Magazine and the magazine's executive editor until his retirement in 1992, died Wednesday of pneumonia in New York City. He was 75 and had been battling pulmonary fibrosis for many years. Jim graduated from Bowdoin College, Class of 1948,
 GREEN-S. William (Bill). On October 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Freiberg). Devoted and cherished father of Cathy Green and Louis Green. Dear brother of Cynthia Green Colin. Fond brother-in-law of Carole and Marvin Leichtung. Loving uncle of nieces, Julie, Laura, Ann and Betsy
 HEINE-Edward J. Jr., 77. Of Spring Lake, NJ on Thursday October 17, 2002. Dear husband of the late MaryJane (nee Day) Heine. Devoted father and father-in-law of Edward J. III and Kerry, Timothy and Sue, Christopher and Pam, Kevin and Elizabeth, and Brian and Bernadette. Beloved brother of J
 HERTZ-Ralph E.L., BSc., M.D., C.M., F.A.C.S., Died on October 14th at his home in Mooloa Farm, of Ulupalakua, Maui, Hawaii, formerly of Pelham, New York. Dr. Hertz is survived by his wife of 56 years Mary M. ''Mackie'' Edwards. Dr. Hertz was a surgeon at Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital Ca
 MARTENS-Frederick W. Jr., MD. Passed away October 16th in his NYC home. Born in 1925 in Whitestone, NY, he served in the Naval Air Corps in 1944-45. He graduated from Cornell Medical School in 1957, joined the OB/GYN practice of Martens, Ryan, Steadman, and became a full professor of Cornel
 ROSENBLUM-Richard. On October 15, 2002 of Brooklyn. Most loved husband, father, brother, grandpa and friend. Talented artist, children's book author and illustrator, professor, enthusiastic birder. Your humor, charm and many interests enriched the lives of all who knew you. Your loving natu
 SIMON-Harold J., 85. Of Ft. Lee, NJ. Survived by his wife Evelyn, daughter Wendy, son Richard, brother Jack and granddaughter Lauren. Services today 1:30 PM Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt. 4 (east), Paramus.       
 THORNE - Edwin. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Weill Cornell Medical College, and Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons mourn the passing of Edwin Thorne. Mr. Thorne was elected a Governor of the Society of the New York Hospital in 1968, a Li
 ZELLER-Fred. Died with dignity on October 16th, 2002. Beloved husband of Bertha. Devoted father of Jane, Alice and Rita and father-in-law of Kenneth and Michael. Adoring and proud grandfather of Michael, Rachel, Aaron and Jason. He served as Vice President of J.B. Lippincott and President o
 WHEELER - Ira. Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation A joins with the late Ira Wheeler's family & his many other friends in celebrating his life and extraordinary contributions to non-profit organizations like ours. The memorial service will be this Sunday, October 20th, at 3 P.M. at the Chur
 Dr. George A. Perera, a former professor of medicine at Columbia University known for his work on high blood pressure and for his antiwar efforts, died on Sept. 14 at a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 90. A former associate dean of the medical school, Dr. Perera e
 ALLEN-John Davison. A loving, caring and generous friend for 27 years. An outstanding architect and designer. Always the consummate host and a superb chef. He was with us at our wedding, our daughter's christening, vacations, holiday celebrations, and the NYC blackout. We will miss him fore
 BLATT-Leon. Of Holden, MA, formerly of Nanuet, NY. Died Friday, October 18, in Worcester, after an illness. His wife Rose Roth (Blatt) died in 1969. He leaves a son Howard N. Blatt and a daughter-in-law, Melissa A. Blatt, both of Holden, a brother David Blatt, of Rockville Centre, LI, four 
 BROWN-Maurice. On October 18th, 2002. Beloved and devoted husband of Eunice (nee Markowitz) for 62 years. Cherished father of Howard and Nancy Brown and Andrea and Harvey Berlent. Adoring grandfather ''Pop'' of Michele and Steven Sweetwood, Michael and Jennifer Brown, Rachel and Robert Bark
 CARLIN-Frank. On October 16, 2002, when, after a long struggle, his heart sadly became as weak as it was tremendous. He lived into his 91st year, always with abundant personality and never without as much love for his family as there can be. Beloved father of Gail Benderand Allan Carlin, fa
 ESSROG-Rabbi Seymour L. We mourn with profound sorrow the sudden passing of our beloved colleague and past president (1998-2000). After two years in the active U.S. Army chaplaincy, he served his entire rabbinic career in Baltimore, first as rabbi of Beth Israel Synagogue for 30 years and t
 FARKASH-Mortimer. October 18, 2002. Beloved husband of Doris. Dear sister of Estelle. Devoted uncle of Leslie, Sandra, Robert and Paul. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Sunday, October 20th, 11 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Inter
 LOWENGARD-Jerome Harry Claster, 77. Of West Hartford, CT, on October 17, 2002. He leaves his wife of 51 years, Elaine Title Lowengard, his children, Mary and Sarah of NYC, Henry and wife Nancy Graham of Kingston, NY, Benjamin and wife Susan Cohen of Watertown, MA, Alexander of West Hartford
 MAXYM-Stephen. The Juilliard community is deeply saddened by the death of Stephen Maxym. One of the most distinguished bassoonists of the Twentieth Century ry, he was on the Juilliard faculty from 1956 to 1992, where he taught many of today's active, professional bassoonists. His humanity, 
 Yaacov Farkas, who under the pen name Zeev became the dean of political cartoonists in Israel, died on Tuesday in a hospital near Tel Aviv. He was 79. When Mr. Farkas, whose pen name means wolf in Hebrew, won the Israel Prize for Journalism in 1993, the judges declared that he had '
 BENOIT-Woodrow Francis ''Woody,'' a 44 year resident of Ridgewood, NJ, died at home on October 17, 2002. Woody was born in Edgewater, NJ June 18, 1917. He served as a Captain in the U.S. Army 1941-1945. After leaving a decorated military career, Woody attended Syracuse University graduating
 BINGHAM-Henry J. III. On October 13, 2002. Most dearly loved husband of Marianne G. Bingham. Graduate of Dartmouth College, Class of 1952, and Amos Tuck Business School, Class of 1953. Executive Managing Director of Van Eck Associates and Executive Vice President of Van Eck Securities. Youn
 BROWN - Maurice. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Chapter, Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America acknowledges with profound sadness the passing of Maurice Brown, beloved father-in-law of our esteemed president Nancy Brown, father of Howard Brown and grandfather of Board member 
 CHUILLI-Emmanuel Nicholas Bernardino. September 29, 1911-September 3, 2002. Born in Valhalla, NY. Served in the United States Navy in World War II. Graduate of New York University 1948B.S. in Marketing. Member of the Alpha Delta Sigma fraternity. Worked for many years at the New York School
 DIDDEL-Andrew G. 81, on October 12, 2002. Andrew was the husband of Kathryn for 52 years. Survived by four children and their spouses, A. Glenn Diddel III, Roberta, G. Scott Diddel and Susanne, Heather D. Diddel and Sam House, and Katha Diddel Warren and Paul. He was a loving grandfather to
 DUKEK-William G., 86. Died October 15 at Winchester Gardens, Maplewood, NJ. He retired from Exxon Research & Engineering Company as Senior Research Associate in charge of aviation fuel research. He was a former chairman of the Coordinating Research Council's Aviation Committee dealing with 
 FARER-Laurence Stephen, M.D. Of Arden, NC, died on Friday, October 11, 2002 as a result of a brain hemorrhage. For 24 years he served as a US Public Health Service Medical Officer. He was Director, Division of TB Control, and Director, Division of Quarantine at the Centers for Disease Contr
 FARKASH-Mortimer. October 18, 2002. Beloved husband of Doris. Dear brother of Estelle. Devoted uncle of Leslie, Sandra, Robert and Paul. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Sunday, October 20th, 11 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Int
 FRIEDMAN-Arthur J. On October 15, 2002 in his 86th year. Cherished husband of Marjorie. Adored father of Stephanie Friedman Melikian. Beloved grandfather of Noah and Ara Melikian. Caring father-in-law to Harrout Melikian, M.D. A memorial service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madis
 GOLDMAN-Sidney. Of Delray Beach, FL and Quogue, NY, passed away Thursday, October 17, in Baltimore, MD. A native of NYC, he served his country in the Air Force during WWII and was a passionate volunteer, as well as being an executive and, late in life, a professional singer. Sid was the dev
 GOLDSTEIN - Edward. Of Mission Viejo, CA, formerly of East Meadow, New York, passed away on October 14, 2002 at the age of 89. New York Times employee for thirty-five years, 1963-1998. Survived by his wife Nessa, daughter Karen Berns, son Larry Goldstein, and three grandchildren, Allison, S
 GRANT-John B. Jr. Greenberg Traurig mourns the loss of our great partner and friend, John Grant. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family on such an untimely loss. John was a quality lawyer and a truly wonderful person. He was uniquely respected by all of his peers for his integrity, ju
 GREEN-S. William. The Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, Inc. and the Executive Committee of the Rabbi Isaac N. Trainin Bikur Cholim Coordinating Council are deeply saddened by the passing of our good friend, former Congressman Bill Green who, along wit
 HOLLAND-Terry. Died on October 12, 2002 at age 36, after a brief illness. A partner with Financial Investment Partners LLC, Terry sat on the Board of Stonewall Community Foundation and was active in Empire State Pride Agenda. Devoted partner to Michael Dunn and to Brian Thompson, loving fri
 JAMESON-Edwin C. Jr. In Hamble, England. Of West Palm Beach, FL., at the age of 88, on September 28, 2002. Son of the late Mary G. and Edwin C. Jameson of New York and Sharon, CT. Survived by his sister Mary J.P. Moore and nephews Samuel F. Posey and Nicholas J. Moore, all of Sharon, CT., a
 JONES-Philip Crane. October 16, 2002, while pursuing one of his passions, rock climbing, in Yosemite National Park. Cherished son of Debby and Barton Jones, best friend and brother of Peter and Stuart and funniest of 30 loving grandchildren of Peggy and Curry Jones and John and the late Phy
 LEVY-Morton J. Of the Berkshires and Boca Raton, FL, after a valiant battle with cancer. Born and raised in NYC. Saw distinguished service as Army Air Force pilot with 62 missions over enemy territory in WWII. Married in 1943 to Georgette Rosenthal. He was the third generation of his family
 LOWENGARD-Jerome Harry Claster, 77. Of West Hartford, CT, on October 17, 2002. He leaves his wife of 51 years, Elaine Title Lowengard, his children, Mary and Sarah of NYC, Henry and wife Nancy Graham of Kingston, NY, Benjamin and wife Susan Cohen of Watertown, MA, Alexander of West Hartford
 MAXYM-Stephen. The Juilliard community is deeply saddened by the death of Stephen Maxym. One of the most distinguished bassoonists of the Twentieth Century ry, he was on the Juilliard faculty from 1956 to 1992, where he taught many of today's active, professional bassoonists. His humanity, 
 MAYERS-Harry. On October 17, 2002 at the age of 93. Devoted husband of Helen Mayers. Beloved father of Melvin Mayers and Phyllis Mayers. Dear father-in-law of Elaine Mayers. Adored grandfather of Candace Shaw, Brian Krinsky and Jennifer Mayers. Proud great grandfather of Harleigh, Zachary a
 McLENDON-Robert G. Age 63, beloved husband of Barbara, father of Elizabeth, son of Dorothy, died on October 10. Born in NYC, graduated Trinity School '55, Yale University '59, Rutgers MBA '60. Served in the Army, received the Army Commendation Medal, CPA, Partner and National Director of Ac
 MOFFITT-Peter Middleton. Of Southport, CT. died Wednesday, October 16th at 76. Born in New Haven, CT, he was a graduate of Pomfret School and Yale University (Class of 1948). He began his career at Harriman Ripley and Manufacturers Hanover Bank and then founded Moffitt & Company, an indepen
 NEWMAN-Abraham. Died at age 92, after a long, wonderful and happy life, surrounded by his family and friends. ''Poppy'' made his mark on all who knew him because of his warmth, generosity, gentleness and his unique ability to love, care and accept. He had survived his life match Lili, and t
 ORR-William Pratt (age 85). On Tuesday, October 8, 2002, in Florida. Predeceased by Mildred Myers Orr, his wife of 57 years; survived by his wife, Pauline Sullivan Orr; a son, Richard Orr of Darien, CT; a daughter, Marie Perlet of Ashton, MD; four grandchildren, and a brother, Robert Orr of
 REXSITE - Seymour. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Folksbiene Yiddish Theatre are deeply saddened by the passing of the great artist and Yiddish music and theatre icon, Seymour Rexsite. We extend our condolences to Mel Freedman and his entire family over the loss of their dear u
 THORNE - Edwin. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Weill Cornell Medical College, and Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons mourn the passing of Edwin Thorne. Mr. Thorne was elected a Governor of the Society of the New York Hospital in 1968, a L
 TUCKER-Benjamin F. Died October 13, after a brief illness. Ben was a writer, actor and director. He taught acting and mime at The American Academy of Dramatic Arts, The American Mime Theater, Cornell and Ohio Universities. He filled the lives of his wife, Priscilla, and daughters, Plummy Tu
 Raymond T. McNally, a black-caped scholar who combined a childhood fascination with horror films with his study of Eastern Europe to link the fictional Dracula with monstrous historical figures, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his daughte
 Jerome M. Rosow, the founder and chairman of the Work in America Institute, a nonprofit research organization that focuses on productivity and workplace issues, died on Oct. 11 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 82 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. As assistant secretary o
 Manuel Alvarez Bravo, Mexico's greatest photographer and a world master of his art, died on Saturday at his home in Mexico City. He was 100. Along with the painters Diego Rivera and Jos Clemente Orozco and other Mexican cultural icons, Mr. Alvarez Bravo was a leader of the artisti
 Mason Hammond, an authority on Latin and the history of Rome and its empire, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 99. Some writings by Professor Hammond, formerly of Harvard, have proven highly durable. His book ''City State and World State'' (Biblo & Tannen) is st
 Mel Harder, the Cleveland Indians right-hander who was among the top pitchers of the 1930's and later became a renowned pitching coach in a major league career spanning 42 seasons, died yesterday at his home in Chardon, Ohio. He was 93. When the Indians played their first game at Mu
 BINGHAM-Henry J. III. On October 13, 2002. Most dearly loved husband of Marianne G. Bingham. Graduate of Dartmouth College, Class of 1952, and Amos Tuck Business School, Class of 1953. Executive Managing Director of Van Eck Associates and Executive Vice President of Van Eck Securities. Youn
 DUGAN-Hugh C. 90, of Cornwall, PA, formerly of Nutley, NJ, died peacefully on October 16, 2002. Dear husband of Ora, beloved father of Sloane and Susan, adored grandfather of Bina, Renee, Matt and Christine, brother of Madelyne, treasured friend of Bruce and Tana. Graduated 1935 from Syracu
 LENNHOFF-Gunther. Loving husband of Thelma. Devoted father of Larry and Malka Esther, and the late Rona. Brother of Marion and Harry Sikovitz. He will be sorely missed by many cousins, nieces, nephews and friends. Services Monday 1:30 PM at Gutterman's, 175 Long Beach Rd, Rockville Centre. 
 MEHTA-Mehli. The Board of Directors and staff of American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra extend our deepest condolences to our Co-Chairman and IPO Music Director, Zubin Mehta and his wife Nancy on the passing of his father. Mehli Mehta's muscial genius and his dedication to te
 MILLER-Raymond, M.D. On October 19, 2002. Loving husband of Berenice and proud father of Daniel and David. Retired Vice Chairman of the Anesthesiology Department at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, where he spent his entire medical career in the United States. Raymond, born in London, was a 
 SALZER-Richard L. 80, died October 19, 2002. Adoring husband of Betty Straus. Beloved father of Richard L. (Linda), and Peggy LoCastro (Thomas). Proud and loving grandfather of Debra, Eric, Caryn and Scott. Trustee of the White Plains Hospital and the Jewish Home and Hospital. Funeral servi
 STODDARD-William B. Jr. Ridgefield, CT, on October 16, 2002. Loving husband and father to Carol and Emily, most generous friend to all. Born in Carbondale, PA, graduate of New York University and its Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, NYC. Investment economist. For thirty years he was ac
 Denison Kitchel, a close friend and the most influential adviser to Barry M. Goldwater in his presidential campaign in 1964, died on Oct. 10 at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 94. Mr. Kitchel had a deep influence on foreign policy in the campaign. He encouraged Mr. Goldwater's 
 Norbert Schultze, the German composer of the melancholy ''Lili Marleen,'' the informal infantryman's anthem that became the best-known song of World War II, died on Oct. 14 in Bad Tlz, Bavaria. He was 91. Inspired by a German soldier's poem written during World War I and promptly 
 BURNS-Steven, 41. Artist and production designer died of natural causes at his home in Los Angeles on Friday, October 18.       
 CHYET - Stanley F. The Board of Trustees, staff, docents, and volunteers of the Skirball Cultural Center, Los Angeles, express our deepest sorrow upon the death of our beloved friend and Assistant to the President/Secretary to the Board of Trustees, Rabbi Stanley F. Chyet. Dr. Chyet led a l
 DIENSTAG - Leo Nathan, M.D. Brooklyn-born, navy corpsman during WWII, graduate of Drew University and New York Medical College. A boarded internist, he taught and practiced his profession with dedication in Manhattan for more than 40 years. Survived by his wife, Grace, sons, Mark and David,
 FERNANDEZ-Augustin. On October 19. Born in Fontan, Spain. Father of John Paul. Gus was a man who marched to the beat of a different drummer. He loved life, a good meal and good wine. His spirit was drawn to the sea. He lived in Belle Harbor, Queens where the ocean was at his door. A celebra
 GAYNOR-Donald R. Died on October 20, 2002 in Manhattan. Predeceased by his longtime companion Donald McKechnie. Brother of Richard L. Gaynor and wife Roberta. Uncle of Jennifer Konigsberg and husband Philip. Uncle of Charles David Gaynor, his wife Cynthia & their daughter Elaine. Graveside 
 HARRITON-Paul J. Of Easthampton, NY, formerly of NYC and Philadelphia died on Sunday, October 20 in Montrose, Colorado. Mr. Harriton is survived by his wife of 33 years, Patricia Daly Harriton, two sisters, Natalie Becker (Stanley) and June Manoff (Norton). Much loved nephews and nieces and
 JAMESON-Edwin C. Jr. In Hamble, England. Of West Palm Beach, FL., at the age of 88, on September 28, 2002. Son of the late Mary G. and Edwin C. Jameson of New York and Sharon, CT. Survived by his sister Mary J.P. Moore and nephews Samuel F. Posey and Nicholas J. Moore, all of Sharon, CT., a
 KAROSEN-Mary. We were saddened to hear of the passing of Mary Karosen, beloved mother of Kent Karosen, Intrepid Museum Trustee. Our sympathies go out to Kent and his family. Tony Fisher, Bill White, David Winters, and all Intrepid board and staff.       
 LEVIN-Harold F. Age 99, on October 19, 2002, of Florida & New York. A distinguished lawyer and member of the NY bar for 76 years, his professional career was marked by dedication to his clients. One of the oldest living graduates of Columbia's Business School, 1923, and Law School, 1926, he
 MEHTA-Mehli. The New York Philharmonic notes with sorrow the death in Los Angeles, on October 19, of Mehli Mehta, 94, violinist and founder of the Bombay Symphony Orchestra, music director and conductor from 1965 to 1998 of the American Youth Symphony, and father of former New York Philharm
 MILLER - Raymond, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and long time friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Pres. William G. Stein, M.D., V.P.. Maria L. Padilla, M.D.,
 O'HARE-Donald. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of Flushing Hospital Medical Center express great sorrow on the passing of Donald O'Hare, esteemed member of the Flushing Hospital family and Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees. We extend our profound and heartfelt c
 SALZER - Richard. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of The Jewish Home and Hospital Lifecare System mourn the passing of our devoted trustee of 20 years. The treasurer of our Board and the mainstay of our Westchester/Sarah Neuman Center, he will be missed for his sage financial co
 SCHOLL-Maestro Cliff. A professional musician and well-known Westchester entertainer, died quietly at home on October 20, 2002. Resting at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY on Wednesday from 3:30PM to 7:30PM where his funeral service will be held Thursday 10:30 A.M. Interment will fol
 SHURE-Michael A. On October 21. Adored husband of Alice. Beloved father of Michael Jr. and Tony. Cherished father-in-law of Sandra. Devoted son of Evelyn and the late Harry Shure. Born in New Haven, CT. on December 23, 1938. Graduate of the University of Virginia. Attended Pratt School of A
 SMILOWITZ-Bernard. The Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the untimely demise of a widely respected member of the Springfield, New Jersey Jewish Community. Condolences are extended to his beloved brother, Herbert (& Marilyn) Smilowitz vice chair and major supporter of the affil
 STODDARD-William B. Jr. Ridgefield, CT, on October 16, 2002. Loving husband and father to Carol and Emily, most generous friend to all. Born in Carbondale, PA, graduate of New York University and its Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, NYC. Investment economist. For thirty years he was ac
 Manfred Ewald, the head of sport in East Germany and a chief architect of its state-sponsored system of providing athletes with illicit performance-enhancing drugs, died Monday in Damsdorf, Germany, his hometown. He was 76. The cause was complications of a lung infection, a former c
 ANDER-Max (Mike). On October 22, 2002. Cherished uncle of Richard and Gene Ander. He served his country in the U.S. Army and served the public as an attorney. Graveside service was held at the New Montefiore Cemetery on October 22, 2002.       
 CHANLER-William A., Jr., 98. Died October 12, 2002. Born in Great Neck, NY on September 24, 1904, he was the son of Congressman William A. Chanler and Beatrice (Ashley) Chanler. Surviving is his beloved wife, Innes J. Chanler of Camden; two sons, William A. Chanler 3rd, of Rowayton, CT; Bay
 COSTIKYAN-Kent R., Jr. Of South Norwalk, CT, on October 21, 2002, aboard his sailboat in Norfolk, VA. Beloved father to Kent R. III, Timothy, and Warren, stepfather to Elisabeth Worthington Ruyter, Andrew Burris Jenkins, Andrea Georgia Jenkins, Susan Delatour Cary. Husband to the late Elisa
 DONAHUE-Donald Jordan. October 22nd, 2002. He is survived by his five children, Macy, Judy, Don, Tom and Nick of his late wife, Mary Meyer Donahue, six grandchildren, wife Carol, brother Jack and sister Mary. Passed away peacefully of complications from Parkinson's disease. Friends may call
 FENZI-Warren E. President of Phelps Dodge Corporation from 1975 to 1980, died Sunday, October 20, at his home in Santa Barbara, CA. A graduate of California Institute of Technology in 1937, Mr. Fenzi worked for Phelps Dodge in Arizona and NYC for over 40 years, retiring as president in 1980
 GRUSKIN-Samuel, DDS, 93. On October 20, 2002, born April 24, 1909 in Brooklyn, NY. He surpasses his wife Dorothy Lieberman of 67 years. He graduated from NYU and 1st in his class at Columbia School of Dentistry. He practiced for fifty years. He is survived by his son Dr. Philip Gruskin and 
 JAMESON-Edwin C. Jr. In Hamble, England. Of West Palm Beach, FL., at the age of 88, on September 28, 2002. Son of the late Mary G. and Edwin C. Jameson of New York and Sharon, CT. Survived by his sister Mary J.P. Moore and nephews Samuel F. Posey and Nicholas J. Moore, all of Sharon, CT., a
 LEVIN-Harold F. Age 99, on October 19, 2002, of Florida & New York. A distinguished lawyer and member of the NY bar for 76 years, his professional career was marked by dedication to his clients. One of the oldest living graduates of Columbia's Business School, 1923, and Law School, 1926, he
 LOEB-Charles. Died peacefully at his home on Monday afternoon, October 21. He was born in NYC but lived from 1943 to 1988 in Bradley Beach, NJ, before returning to his birthplace. He was chairman of the Awards Committee and a civilian procurement officer for the Research and Development Lab
 MATSON-Rev. Paul T. Bethlehem Lutheran Church announces his passing. Wake, October 25, 4-7 PM, Snooky's Restaurant, 140 7th Ave, Brooklyn. Service October 27, 4 PM at the church, 490 Pacific St, Brooklyn.       
 MEHTA-Mehli. With great sadness, the Board, Staff and Friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., join the international music community to mourn the passing of Mehli Mehta, founder of the Bombay Symphony Orchestra and Music Director of the American Youth Symphony. We are thank
 MORTOLA-Edward J. The Board of Trustees, Chairman Aniello A. Bianco, President David A. Caputo, the faculty, staff, students and alumni of Pace University express profound sorrow at the loss of Dr. Edward J. Mortola, Chancellor Emeritus and Former President of Pace University. Dr. Mortola's
 PETERSEN-Gustav H. ''Peter'' died at home on October 19, 2002. His family, relatives and friends know that, ''in the variety of God's creations, Peter will be the wonder for us all.''       
 ROSENTHAL-Morton Lawrence, M.D. Beloved husband of Bernardine, devoted father of Jeanne (Perry), Karen (Steve), and Benjamin (Susan), grandfather of Michael, Katy, Julie, Anne, and William, brother of J. Robert (Gladys) and the late Gerald (Gloria), brother-in-law of Marie and Richard, Lorr
 RYAN-Lt. Col. Roger S. (Retired USA), died Tuesday, October 22, 2002 at his home in Millbrook, NY from complications related to ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease). During World War II, Ryan served with the 315th Infantry, 79th Division (Cross of Lorraine) and was responsible for 187 enlisted men an
 SCHMIDT-Lloyd, 65, of East Brunswick, NJ formerly of Brooklyn on October 21, 2002. Extremely devoted husband of the late Barbara. Extremely devoted father and fatherin-law of Terrie and David George. Predeceased by his parents and sister. Service 12 Noon Thursday, Mount Sinai Memorial Chape
 SHURE-Michael A. On October 21. Adored husband of Alice. Beloved father of Michael Jr. and Tony. Cherished father-in-law of Sandra. Devoted son of Evelyn and the late Harry Shure. Born in New Haven, CT. on December 23, 1938. Graduate of the University of Virginia. Attended Pratt School of A
 SPORN-Lawrence B. On October 22, 2002. He died after a long bout with cancer. Larry was born on April 25, 1931 in New York City. He was honorably discharged from the United States Navy in 1955. Shortly thereafter, he went to work for Ziff-Davis Publishing Company. There he enjoyed working i
 STODDARD-William B. Jr. Ridgefield, CT, on October 16, 2002. Loving husband and father to Carol and Emily, most generous friend to all. Born in Carbondale, PA, graduate of New York University and its Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, NYC. Investment economist. For thirty years he was ac
 WERTHEIMER - Lothar, M.D. Physician and friend, he taught and practiced his profession with dedication and respect for each and every human being in New York City's municipal hospitals and private practice for half a century. Survived by his loving wife, Antonia, and by Ellen, Robert, Miche
 ELAHI-Cyrus. One with love in his heart never dies.       
 Dr. Peter G. Bergmann, a physicist who worked with Albert Einstein and played a leading role in the advancement of Einstein's theories in the years after World War II, died on Saturday in Seattle. He was 87. As a professor at Syracuse University from 1947 to 1982, Dr. Bergmann taugh
 Warren E. Fenzi, a former president of the mining and manufacturing company Phelps Dodge, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Fenzi had a 43-year career in copper mining, beginning in 1937 when he joined Phelps Dodge. He helped develop the giant open p
 Derek Bell, the versatile harpist with the Chieftains, one of the most celebrated Irish traditional bands, died on Oct. 15 in his hotel in Phoenix. He was 66 and lived in Belfast. The cause was hypertensive cardiomyopathy, a heart disorder, his agent, Michelle Findlay, said.        
 Fred Troller, a design director who helped popularize a minimalist typographic style called Swiss New Typography in the United States in the 1960's, died on Oct. 11 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his wife, Beatrice, said. An alternative to the deco
 Jesse L. Greenstein, who helped explain astronomical exotica like unimaginably bright beacons at the edge of the universe and hot cinders of burned-out stars, died on Monday in Arcadia, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Greenstein also mentored a generation of astronomers, sometimes referring t
 BLACK-Morris. October 22, 2002. Age 76, of New York City, loving and devoted husband of Marjorie, loving brother of Eli, beloved stepfather of Russell and Nancy Fuhrer, David and Violaine Fuhrer, Beth and Ian Kraemer. Beloved grandfather of Evan, Noah, Gillian. Cherished uncle of Alan, Warr
 CASHMAN-Alvin H. Died on October 20 at the age of 94. He is survived and missed by his wife of 70 years, Sylvia Cashman, by his son Kenneth, by his grandchildren (Bill, Elise Bass, and Keven) by his five great-grandchildren, and by his sister Selma Florman. His funeral service will be held 
 COSTIKYAN-Kent R., Jr. Of South Norwalk, CT, on October 21, 2002, aboard his sailboat in Norfolk, VA. Beloved father to Kent R. III, Timothy, and Warren, stepfather to Elisabeth Worthington Ruyter, Andrew Burris Jenkins, Andrea Georgia Jenkins, Susan Delatour Cary. Husband to the late Elisa
 DONAHUE-Donald Jordan. October 22nd, 2002. He is survived by his five children, Macy, Judy, Don, Tom and Nick of his late wife, Mary Meyer Donahue, six grandchildren, wife Carol, brother Jack and sister Mary. Passed away peacefully of complications from Parkinson's disease. Friends may call
 HELMS - The Honorable Richard M., 89, on Wednesday, October 23, 2002, at his residence in Washington D.C. Dear husband and friend of Cynthia R. Helms. Father of Dennis and grandfather of Julia and Alexander. Brother of Betty Helms Hawn, Pearsael Helms and Gates Helms. Stepfather of Didi And
 HOLMAN-William M. On October 20, 2002. Husband of Jane Holman (nee Steane) of Madison. Father of Christopher A. of Cambridge, MA, Gordon M. of Portland ME, Andrew C. of Somerville, MA, Whitney H. Bauer of Middletown, RI, William M. Holman Jr. of Lake Forest IL, Lindsey H. Swift of St. Louis
 MORTOLA-Edward. Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts Inc. and Lincoln Center Institute express deep sorrow at the loss of Dr. Edward J. Mortola, Chancellor Emeritus of Pace University. As Chairman of the Institute from 1987 to 1992 Dr. Mortola provided dynamic leadership and vision to the
 MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J., 76. Son of the late Joseph and Rose Vallely Murray, brother of the late Rosaleen P. Sage (Donald), Mary M. Houlihan (James G.), John T. Murray (Eileen), Sister Mary Rose Murray, S.U., and Patrick W. Murray (Cathy). ''Uncle Bud'' survived by 10 Sage nieces and
 PETERSEN-Gustav H. ''Peter'' died at home on October 19, 2002. His family, relatives and friends know that, ''in the variety of God's creations, Peter will be the wonder for us all.''       
 ROSENTHAL-Morton Lawrence, M.D. Beloved husband of Bernardine, devoted father of Jeanne (Perry), Karen (Steve), and Benjamin (Susan), grandfather of Michael, Katy, Julie, Anne, and William, brother of J. Robert (Gladys) and the late Gerald (Gloria), brother-in-law of Marie and Richard, Lorr
 SHURE - Michael. Mike's goodness and great spirit has been a blessing to my life and will remain with me always. Thank you Mike and Alice for taking me under your wing and all those great times with Grandma Shure, Michael and Tony. With heartfelt sympathy, Laraine Mancini-Unik SHURE
 TRIANDAFILLOU-Dr. Titos, B.S., NYU, D.D.S., U. of Pennsylvania, 1954. Survived by his loving wife of 48 years, Vasiliki, children, Peter and Terri Triandafillou, Gregory and Sheila Triandis, grandchildren Cathy, Laura, Sean and Nora, brother Menelaus and family. Viewing Thursday, October 24
 Richard Helms, a former director of central intelligence who defiantly guarded some of the darkest secrets of the cold war, died of multiple myeloma today. He was 89. An urbane and dashing spymaster, Mr. Helms began his career with a reputation as a truth teller and became a favorit
 Adolph Green, the playwright, performer and lyricist who in a six-decade collaboration with Betty Comden was co-author of such hit Broadway musicals as ''On the Town,'' ''Wonderful Town'' and ''Bells Are Ringing'' and screenplays for ''Singin' in the Rain'' and ''The Band Wagon,'' died yest
 Alfred Lerner, who grew up behind his immigrant family's luncheonette in Brooklyn, rose to become a billionaire investor in banking and real estate, then revived one of sport's best-known names as owner of pro football's Cleveland Browns expansion franchise, died Wednesday in Cleveland. Mr.
 Harry Hay, who founded a secret organization six decades ago that proved to be the catalyst for the American gay rights movement, died early Thursday morning at his home in San Francisco. He was 90. Although little known in the broader national culture over the years, Mr. Hay's cont
 DONAHUE-Donald Jordan. October 22nd, 2002. He is survived by his five children, Macy, Judy, Don, Tom and Nick of his late wife, Mary Meyer Donahue, six grandchildren, wife Carol, brother Jack and sister Mary. Passed away peacefully of complications from Parkinson's disease. Friends may call
 GREEN-Adolph. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the death of Adolph Green, whose brilliance will always illuminate our lives. Our heartfelt condolences to our dear trustee, Phyllis Newman, and their children, Amanda and Adam. Tom Dillon, President Joseph P. Benincasa, Executive Director   
 HARE-Richard V. Died on October 21st peacefully at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. As a well-known and respected Interior Designer he had the advantage of not only living in surroundings of unusual beauty but also helping to create them. He was educated in Europe but completed his sec
 HILLEGAS-Donald L. Died on October 17th, 2002. He is survived by his sisters Joan and Joy Hillegas, Mary Davis and Barbara Hanggi; his brothers Robert and Andrew and his companion Louis Vuolo. A memorial will be held at a later date.       
 KRAUSS-Marvin A. All the associates from Marvin A. Krauss Associates mourn the loss of our teacher, mentor, and friend. He was a one-ofa-kind giant in the annals of Broadway and in our hearts. Creative, loyal, fair, funny, generous, and a force to be reckoned with. We will miss him. From us
 LERNER-Alfred. The medical staff, administration and the Board of Trustees of Hospital for Special Surgery expresses their deepest sorrow over the loss of Alfred Lerner. Mr. Lerner, who served as Chairman and CEO of MBNA, made an extraordinary contribution to the civic life of Cleveland. Th
 MORTOLA - Dr. Edward. President Stephen J. Jerome (an alumnus of Pace University) and The Monroe College community note with sadness the death of Dr. Edward Mortola, Chancellor Emeritus of Pace University. His vision, leadership and innovative approach to higher education had a profound imp
 MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J., 76. Son of the late Joseph and Rose Vallely Murray, brother of the late Rosaleen P. Sage (Donald), Mary M. Houlihan (James G.), John T. Murray (Eileen), Sister Mary Rose Murray, S.U., and Patrick W. Murray (Cathy). ''Uncle Bud'' survived by 10 Sage nieces and
 PETERSEN-Gustav H. ''Peter'' died at home on October 19, 2002. His family, relatives and friends know that, ''in the variety of God's creations, Peter will be the wonder for us all.''       
 POPKIN-Henry. Died peacefully at his home in Brooklyn on Thursday, October 24. He was born in Providence, R.I. on April 20, 1924. During his long writing career he contributed to the N.Y. Times, the Times of London, the Financial Times, and many other publications, writing about his passion
 ROSS-Thomas B., 73. Died October 24, at Eastern Long Island Hospital, after a battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife Gunilla (Ekstrand) of Shelter Island Heights, N.Y., daughters Maria, Anne and Kristina, two granddaughters and his sister Grace Shanley. Vice President, Go
 TINT-Robert S. An intelligent, kind and gentle man, a professional engineer, died on October 23rd, 2002. He is survived by his loving wife, Leonora, daughter Barbara, sister Ruth and nephews Rick & Roy. A memorial gathering with collation will be announced at a later date.       
 PINE-Arthur (Artie). October 26, 2000. We loved him and we miss him more and more. Leonard Wurzel       
 CALDERON-Jack. On October 24, 2002. Quintessential New Yorker, Sephardic pasha, devoted son of Sarah, dearest sweetheart of Gwen, best daddy in the world to Solara. Humorous, loyal friend, artist, an elegant, magical man, larger than life. He will be missed. Lovingly remembered by Sarah, Gw
 GOWEN-Lawrence James, 73. of Vero Beach, died Thursday, October 24, 2002. Mr. Gowen was born in Queens, NY and was a retired member of the footware industry. He was a member of St. Helen's Catholic Church in Vero Beach. Mr. Gowen was the son of the late Lawrence Gowen and Helen Gowen (nee H
 GREEN-Adolph. The Officers, Governors and members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed Member, Adolph Green. We are honored and proud to have been touched by Adolph Green, a great lyricist with enormous talent who shared a legacy of commitment to t
 LERNER-Alfred. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Alfred Lerner, a member of the Columbia College class of 1955. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as vice chair of the Trustees was marked by exceptional
 MATSON-Rev. Paul T. Bethlehem Lutheran Church announces his passing. Wake, October 25, 4-7 PM, Snooky's Restaurant, 140 7th Ave, Brooklyn. Service October 27, 4 PM at the church, 490 Pacific St, Brooklyn.       
 MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our longtime Board member. Monsignor Murray served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1973. He gave generously of his time as a member of th
 ROSS-Thomas B., 73. Died October 24, at Eastern Long Island Hospital, after a battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife Gunilla (Ekstrand) of Shelter Island Heights, N.Y., daughters Maria, Anne and Kristina, two granddaughters and his sister Grace Shanley. Vice President, Go
 VORA-Dr. Pravinchandra. 74, passed away from serious injuries sustained in an automobile accident on October 18, 2002. Dr. Vora graduated with a M.B.B.S. degree in medicine from the University of Bombay in 1951. He was awarded the Dr. R.S. Poredi gold medal for medicine. In 1956, he receive
 Paul Wellstone often seemed out of step. He called himself a liberal when many used that word as a slur. He voted against the Persian Gulf war in his first year in the Senate, and this month opposed using force against Iraq. Senator Wellstone, 58, who died in a plane crash today whi
 Richard Harris, the voluble Irishman who starred as King Arthur in the film version of ''Camelot'' and more recently played Albus Dumbledore, the wise, magical and benign headmaster in the first Harry Potter movie and its forthcoming sequel, died yesterday in London. He was 72. He l
 Winton M. Blount, the last postmaster general to serve in a president's cabinet and the first chairman of the Postal Service, which he helped create, died on Thursday at his second home in Highlands, N.C. He was 81. The cause was a long illness, said Joe McInnes, the executive direc
 Kenneth Johnson, a cat burglar and holdup man who had a jailhouse conversion after reading Jean-Paul Sartre and transformed himself into a beloved teacher of inmates on Rikers Island, died last Sunday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 49. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
 BERINGER-Bruce Marshall. Beloved husband of Marie Fortin Beringer, passed away peacefully of a heart attack at age 74, on October 23, 2002, near his home at Sugar Plum Farm in Randolph, NH. He was a graduate of Harvard College and was a financial advisor in New York for 38 years, most recen
 BLACK-Morris. The Three Arrows community notes with sorrow the passing of Morris Black, a member respected for his deep integrity and humanity. Condolences to his wife Marjorie, and his step-children and grandchildren. Halona W. Balgley, President BLACK-Morris. Our special, treasure
 BLAU-Herbert H. Of Larchmont, died October 24. Wonderful husband for 60 years to Gladys Balog. Devoted sons Leslie and Lawrence and his grandson Fredrick.       
 BLUM-Dr. Morris. 103, of Hollywood, FL, died on Tuesday, October 22, 2002. Dr. Blum retired from the practice of medicine in New York City in 1986. He lived a long and remarkable life. He was loved very much and will be remembered by many. BLUM-Dr. Morris. A source of strength for s
 BREUER - Dr. Harry Jr. (Bud). 71, of New York City and Sag Harbor, died on October 24, 2002, at NYU Medical Center. He is survived by his beloved wife Fran, his devoted daughter Gina and her husband Eric Hadley, and his cherished granddaughter Francesca. Also survived by his brothers Robert
 CALDERON-Jack. On October 24, 2002. Beloved friend and cousin. We will miss your leadership, wisdom and humor. The Herman's The Misshula's The Mizrahi's The Seidman's The Hazan's and The Calderon's CALDERON - Jack. Our thoughts are with you, Gwen and Solara, on the loss of Jack. We 
 DANOFF-Abraham. Artist, free spirit, predeceased by wife Judith, died October 18, (age 86), after enjoying a delicious dinner with son Saul (and Valerie). Also survived by daughter Ann and grandchildren (Kimmer, Joshua, Zachary, Sonya, Isabel) and friends. Back to the earth he loved so much
 GALVIN-Ruth (Mehrtens). Of Westwood and Edgartown, MA. October 23, 2002. Beloved wife of the late John T. Galvin. Loving sister of Paul H. Mehrtens and his wife Mary Lou of Longmeadow, MA. Beloved aunt of Paul H. Mehrtens, Jr. of Wayland, MA, Stephen R. Mehrtens of Brookline, MA, and Jane R
 GREEN-Adolph. The Board and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the passing of Adolph Green, who typified the joie de vivre of creation and performance of American music in this hall and so many others. In 1943-44, he and others created ''On The Town'' in a Carnegie Hall studio rented to Leonard B
 GREEN-Bernard. Died on October 23, 2002, in Williamsville, NY, of prostate cancer at age 88. Originally from Queens, NY, he retired to Poughquag, NY, in 1975, and moved to Williamsville in 2000. He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Rita Wolfe and two sons, Dr. Andrew Green and Dr. Leslie
 HARRIS - Sheldon. Passed away peacefully after a battle with kidney cancer on Friday, October 25, 2002. Mr. Harris was an advertising guru, having worked in the field for over 30 years. Mr. Harris began his career as a copywriter at the DDB in 1952 and retired after running his own agency, 
 HOXIE-R. Gordon. Long Island University mourns the death of General R. Gordon Hoxie. Dean, President, and Chancellor, Dr. Hoxie played a major role in developing the C.W. Post Campus and the University as a whole. His legacy is the eighth largest private University in America. We extend our
 LERNER-Alfred. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Alfred Lerner, a member of the Columbia College class of 1955. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as vice chair of the Trustees was marked by exceptional
 MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our longtime Board member. Monsignor Murray served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1973. He gave generously of his time as a member of th
 OBERMAN-Isaac M. ''Ike.'' The employees and staff of The Oberman Companies express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our leader, teacher and friend. As the patriarch of our business family, he was more than just an insurance broker, he was our confidant, our conscience and our true inspi
 PLATT-Gordon David. Retired securities analyst and Vice President of Brown Brothers Harriman, died Saturday at a nursing home in Ridgewood, NJ, following a lengthy and valiant battle with Parkinson's disease. He lived in New York City and Shelter Harbor, Westerly, RI. Born April 29, 1934, i
 ROSS-Thomas B., 73. Died October 24, at Eastern Long Island Hospital, after a battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife Gunilla (Ekstrand) of Shelter Island Heights, N.Y., daughters Maria, Anne and Kristina, two granddaughters and his sister Grace Shanley. Vice President, Go
 SHAINSWIT - Seymour. Passed away peacefully on October 26, 2002, at the age of 82, of lymphoma. He is survived by his loving wife of 52 years, Justice Beatrice Shainswit of the New York State Supreme Court, and his brother Bernard. He was a graduate of the City College of New York and of Ne
 SHAPIRO-Harvey R. On October 22, in Santa Monica, CA. Writer, publisher, political historian, activist, a founder of the Teachers' Freedom Party, Citizens for Local Democracy, and acclaimed political journal ''The Public Life,'' his major works are ''The Bureaucratic State'' and ''Democracy
 TURNBULL-William. 94, a lifetime resident of Far Hills, NJ, died at home October 23, 2002. Born in New York City December 6, 1907, Mr. Turnbull attended the Buckley School, St. Mark's School, Princeton University (1930), the Ecole des Beaux Arts, and Yale University School of Architecture. 
 WELLSTONE-Senator Paul. On behalf of the Board and Staff of NARAL, we express our sadness as we mourn the loss of Sen. Paul Wellstone, a champion of women's rights and a courageous public advocate for Minnesotans, Americans and citizens of the world. Throughout his years of service in the U
 SAVAGE-David. October 27, 1989 remembered always, with love, by his family.       
 SCHIFFER-Dr. Morton A. A celebratory memorial will be held in his honor on 11/3/02, at 11 AM, at the Stamford Hospital, Whittingham Pavilion, West Broad St, Stamford, CT.       
 Dr. Milton Terris, who founded the National Association for Public Health Policy and the Society for Epidemiological Research, died on Oct. 3 at his home in South Burlington, Vt. He was 87. Dr. Terris was a past president of both organizations. He also founded the Journal of Public 
 Msgr. James J. Murray, the executive director of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York from 1973 to 2000, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 76. Monsignor Murray was ordained by Cardinal Francis Spellman in 1956. He was secretary to Cardinal Terence Cooke from 1969
 Marvin A. Krauss, one of Broadway's leading general managers, whose career spanned more than four decades and nearly 100 shows, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was a bacterial infection, said his daughter Robin Plevener. A tough negotiator and natty dresse
 BOETSCH-Fred W. Of Westchester County, NY, formerly of Glendale and Woodside, NY. Died October 26, 2002, at his home. He is survived by his three children Andrew, Alice and Erika of Somers, NY. Calling hours Monday and Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9, at Clark Funeral Home, Inc., Yorktown Heights, NY 
 EPHRAIM-Edward H. 65, of Norwalk, CT, died October 25, 2002, after a courageous battle with cancer. Devoted husband of Hope, son of Frank, loving father of Jennifer. Memorial service Tuesday, October 29, at Congregation Agudath Shalom in Stamford, CT, 301 Strawberry Hill Avenue. In lieu of 
 GREEN-Adolph. An abrupt close, too soon, to an exciting life. We'll miss him. Loving thoughts to Phyllis, Adam, Amanda and Betty. Floria Lasky and Jere Couture       
 HOXIE-R. Gordon, Ph.D. The Board of Trustees, the Board of Editors, and the members of the Center for the Study of the Presidency mourn with deep sadness the passing of their Founder, President and Chairman Emeritus, Dr. R. Gordon Hoxie. A graduate of the Air War College, Dr. Hoxie earned a
 LERNER-Alfred. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Alfred Lerner, a member of the Columbia College class of 1955. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as vice chair of the Trustees was marked by exceptional
 LIEBOWITZ-William. 83, of Purchase, NY, on October 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Estelle, devoted father of Sherry Moran, Howard Liebowitz, M.D., and Lauren Coffman, and five grandchildren. He was devoted and dedicated for 58 years as a CPA in his private practice. Services on Tuesday, 10 AM
 MENDLOWITZ-Jerome. Beloved husband of Ruth, passed away peacefully at 78. He is also survived by his devoted daughter Brenda and her husband Mark. He was a Navy Seabee during World War II, followed by working in the family leather business. He was a wonderful man liked by all and his kindne
 MURRAY-Reverend Monsignor James J. The Ladies of Charity of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York celebrate the life of Monsignor Murray while we record with sorrow our loss as he enters eternal life and receives his much deserved reward in the company of family and friends.
 OBERMAN-Isaac M. 81, of NY and FL, died Friday, October 25, 2002, in Coral Springs FL. Ike was born in the Bronx, a legend in the insurance industry, and led the Oberman Companies for over 55 years. Mr. Oberman was a champion in the fight for the establishment of the State of Israel as Nati
 ROSS-Thomas B. The employees of Loral Space & Communications express their deepest sorrow over the death of their dear friend and colleague, Tom Ross. Vice President of Government Relations for Loral since 1995, Tom brought intelligence, style, clear-sightedness, integrity and a wealth of e
 SHAINSWIT - Seymour. Passed away peacefully on October 26, 2002, at the age of 82, of lymphoma. He is survived by his loving wife of 52 years, Justice Beatrice Shainswit of the New York State Supreme Court, and his brother Bernard. He was a graduate of the City College of New York and of Ne
 Thomas B. Ross, a journalist and best-selling author of books on military intelligence who later became the spokesman for the Pentagon in the Carter administration, died Thursday at Eastern Long Island Hospital. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan and Shelter Island Heights, N.Y. The c
 Christopher B. Sheldon, whose 92-foot twin-masted sailing ship Albatross sank in a freak storm in 1961, a disaster that inspired the 1996 movie ''White Squall,'' died on Oct. 5 in Stamford, Conn. He was 76 and lived in Norwalk, Conn. The cause was pancreatic cancer, Anne Ramsey, his
 Dr. Edward Joseph Mortola, who presided as Pace grew from a small downtown Manhattan business school into one of the country's largest independent universities, died on Oct. 21 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 85. Dr. Mortola spent nearly his entire career at Pace. He joined Pace Ins
 BLIND-William Charles. Died at home in Lancaster, PA. on October 26, 2002 after a long illness. Also a resident of Kennebunkport, ME. and Beaufort, S.C. Born in Chicago May 18, 1911 to Josephine K. and William A. Blind. Graduated from the University of Notre Dame 1932 and Harvard Law School
 BROMBERG - Rabbi Ken neth. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. After serving as chaplain in the US Air Force, he served several rabbinic and educational positions before becoming rabbi of Congregation Beth Shalom in Clearwater, FL where he retired as rabbi em
 COHEN-Leonard. Of Riverdale, NY and Boca Raton, FL died on October 26, 2002 from cancer. Born December 25, 1915 in New York City, the second born son of Mary and Irving Cohen. Loving father of Mark Cohen & Lori Klein and grandfather of Erica & Jenna. Dearly beloved by Joyce Horn, the DeGuir
 EPHRAIM - Edward. We mourn the passing of our best and most wonderful friend, loved by all who knew him. Our heartfelt condolences to Bunny, Hope and Jenny. Heide, Kristina and Warren       
 GALLAGHER - Leslie Nei land. 1923 to October, 2002. The Board of Directors and The Members of The University Glee Club of New York City mourn with deep sadness the passing of their Brother in Song and Past President, L. Neiland Gallagher. Neil joined The Glee Club as a second tenor in 1954,
 HARRISON-Dennis Patrick. March 14, 1918-October 13, 2002. Actor, director, husband, father, grandfather and friend. As a child he tapdanced with his Irish-born father and in WWII made Naval training movies. His first professional job was in Harvey. Unsure of show business, he worked as a tr
 KASINDORF-Meyer H. Formerly of Hicksville, NY, died October 25 at home in West Stockbridge, MA. Survived by his wife Shirley, daughter Judy Lichtenfeld, son Joshua and their families. Funeral services were held October 28, 12 noon at Hevreh of Southern Berkshire, Great Barrington, MA. Addit
 KELBAN-Arthur. Devoted husband to Lorraine for 58 years, loving father to Daryl and Jay Marx, and Steven Kelban and Ellen Schall, grandfather to Eva and Jonathan and GP to Abigail and Angelina. We celebrated his 80th birthday together this weekend. We will miss him terribly. He loved life a
 LERNER - Alfred. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, and Weill Cornell Medical College mourn the passing of Alfred Lerner, a member since 1998 of the Hospital's Board of Trustees. Mr. Lerner, a uniquely brill
 LIEBOWITZ - William. Bill was one of our oldest and dearest friends. He was his own man. He lived in what he believed in. Sincere condolences to his loving wife Estelle, his children Sherry, Howard and Lauren and his grandchildren. Rest in peace. We will miss you. Rita and Paul LIEB
 MAHER-Brian John. In his 38th year, suddenly. Of Charlotte, NC, also Chatham, NJ, and Oakville, Ontario. Beloved by his wife Barbara (Davren) Maher and their children, Clare and Liam Maher. Loving son of Edward Gerry Maher and Eileen Maher of Cape Coral, FL., and Oakville, Ontario, Canada. 
 MAYER-Ewald, 83. Passed away peacefully in his home. Until late in life, he was active in the financial field with Herzog, Heine & Geduld. He is mourned by his wife Eva, daughter Catheryne Johnston and granddaughter Tonya. Funeral services will be private.       
 McKENZIE - Roy George. Age 72, died peacefully in his home in Brooklyn, New York, October 22nd, 2002. He is survived by his wife Verena, twelve children and twentyfour grandchildren.       
 MINES-Fay Shirley. The American Jewish Committee extends heartfelt condolences to Herbert Mines, officer and devoted member of our Board of Governors, on the death of his beloved mother. We convey our deepest regrets to the entire family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec Dir  
 PARNESS-Joseph. Bnai Zion mourns the loss of its longtime member, national leader and father of its Exec. Vice Pres., Mel Parness. He spent a lifetime in the service of the Jewish people and Bnai Zion, setting an example of devotion to generations. We extend our condolences to his family. H
 STRUM-Billie. We mourn the death of our beloved friend and Board Member who was instrumental in creating AICF's Young Leadership Group. After immigrating to Israel, he continued his involvement with the arts. Our hearts go out to his wonderful family. Vera Stern, President Harvey Rothenberg
 WELLSTONE-Senator Paul. The Board of Trustees of the New York Society for Ethical Culture mourns the tragic passing of Senator Paul Wellstone, his wife and daughter. Senator Wellstone was the recipient of Ethical Culture's 1997 Ethical Humanist Award for ''Courageous actions in protesting t
 Dr. Per Bak, an intellectually pugnacious physicist who sought to understand how complexity arises in the world, died on Oct. 16 in Copenhagen. He was 54. The cause was complications of a stem-cell transplant, given as treatment for a serious blood disorder, friends and family membe
 DAYTON-Wallace C. Conservationist and leader of local and national organizations devoted to improving and saving the environment. He died peacefully at his home in Wayzata, MN, on October 27, survived by his wife of 54 years, Mary Lee Lowe Dayton. With his four brothers, he inherited Dayton
 GOLDMAN-Dr. Eliezer. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing in Israel of one of its most illustrious Yeshiva College alumni '37. He made Aliyah in 1938, earned a Ph.D from Bar Ilan University where he taught and later was chairman of the Department of Philosophy. He was the recipi
 HICKEY-Shannon E. 19, of Jupiter Island, FL, passed away Sunday, October 27, 2002 as the result of an automobile accident. He was born and raised in East Rockaway, NY, had been a resident of Jupiter Island for five years, coming from New York. Shannon was a 2001 graduate of Jupiter High Sch
 O'HEARN-James, on October 26th. He is survived by his beloved sisters, Barbara and Ellen. Devoted uncle to his many nieces and nephews. Dearest friend of Ronald Bogus and Augusto Labat.       
 PHILLIPS-Robert. October 19, 2002. Our dear friend. Our sympathy to his family. Dorothy and Jean Cropper       
 SILBERBERG-Michael Cousins. We deeply mourn the sudden loss of our treasured friend. Michael's rigorous intellect, quiet warmth, subtle humor and unique seaweedgrilled lobster, which he prepared with such pride and gusto, will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to Randi, Dana and Bob. Andy
 SIMON-Gilbert. On October 26, 2002, 84 years old. A loving family man and long time resident of the Bronx. Survived by two sons Martin and Joel and his sister Muriel and his five grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held at the Kittay House, 2550 Web Ave, Bronx, N.Y. (across the street
 SZERLIP-Jack. The Board of Governors, and we of North Shore Country Club, record with deep sorrow the passing of our former esteemed member, Jack Szerlip. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Judy, and family. Peter J. Baum, President Stuart Bednoff, Secretary       
 WELLSTONE-Senator Paul. The American Parkinson Disease Association, Inc. greatly mourns the death of Senator Paul Wellstone, who was a staunch advocate in the fight against Parkinson's disease. His dedication to aid in the struggle of those who suffered with this disease will never be forgo
 R. Gordon Hoxie, an educator and scholar of the presidency who had a brief, stormy tenure as chancellor of Long Island University in the late 1960's, died last Wednesday at his home in Oyster Bay Cove, on Long Island. He was 83. A dispute between Dr. Hoxie and the university's stude
 Tom Dowd, an innovative recording engineer and producer who made noted albums with John Coltrane, Ornette Coleman, Otis Redding, Eric Clapton, the Allman Brothers and many other musicians, died on Sunday in Aventura, Fla., near Miami. He was 77 and had lived until recently in Miami.        
 Werner Eberlein, a German who spent nearly eight years in the Siberian gulag under Stalin, and later, after an amnesty, rose to become Nikita S. Khrushchev's interpreter at the height of the cold war, died Oct. 11 in Berlin, German newspapers reported this week. He was 82. Mr. Eberl
 William F. Treiber, a longtime senior official of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Bloomfield, Conn., according to a spokeswoman for the bank. He was 94. Mr. Treiber joined the bank in 1934 and was its No. 2 official, or first vice president, from
 Chang-Lin Tien, the chancellor of the University of California from 1990 to 1997 and an outspoken advocate of affirmative action, died on Tuesday at the Kaiser Permanente hospital in Redwood City, Calif. He was 67 and lived in Hillsborough, Calif. Dr. Tien learned in 2000 that he ha
 Gen. Jacques Massu, a soldier who late in life came to deplore and regret France's use of torture during his triumphant direction of the Battle of Algiers in 1957, died on Saturday at his home in Conflans-sur-Loing in the Loiret region of France. He was 94. A highly decorated office
 CUSACK - Maurice. The Board and staff of The Spanish Institute mourns our colleague and friend, Maurice Cusack, who died on Friday, October 25th. A distinguished banker, he worked with the Royal Bank of Canada for twenty-one years and with Irving Trust Company for twenty-three. Maurice, a d
 ENGLISH-Dr. Harry G. on October 29, 2002. Beloved husband of 51 years to Eileen (nee Maxwell). Loving brother of the late Annetta Brand and J. Walter English. Proud uncle of Dawn Joy, Erica Brand, Jeffrey English, Randy English, Janet Somerville, Jennifer Leonardi and Deborah Cummings. Surv
 ESKOW-Dennis. Noted expert in technology journalism, passed away at his home on October 29. Eskow began his career as a reporter for the NY Daily News, and later wrote for the Associated Press and served as science editor for Popular Mechanics. He went on to spearhead many technology public
 FEIT-Edward. Proud of his loving family, always an advocate for the West Side Jewish Center, and a credit to the accounting profession; he will be missed by many. Condolences to his wife Adele, daughters Marilyn & Rachel, sons-in-law Alon and Michael, and grandchildren. Alan Fell       
 HICKEY-Shannon E. 19, of Jupiter Island, FL, passed away Sunday, October 27, 2002 as the result of an automobile accident. He was born and raised in East Rockaway, NY, had been a resident of Jupiter Island for five years, coming from New York. Shannon was a 2001 graduate of Jupiter High Sch
 MEYER-Joseph H., 82. Of Stuart, FL., and Port Ewen, NY. Died on October 30, 2002. Beloved husband of 58 years to Anne, father of Joseph, William, Joanne, Margaret and Laura. Grandfather of four, and brother of three sisters Maxine Greene, his twin, Jeanne Shinefield and Carol Meyer (decease
 SZERLIP-Jack L. Suddenly, October 29, 2002. Beloved husband and best friend of Judy; loving father of Ann, Bill (Marcia) and Lynn Cleaver; adoring grandfather of Emily and Michael Cleaver and Joshua Szerlip; brotherin-law of Arnold and Joan Wolfe. He proudly served as a pilot in W.W. II, co
 THORNE - Edwin. The Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History mourn the passing of Honorary Trustee Edwin Thorne. A dedicated friend and generous supporter for nearly 40 years, Ed will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Marion and all of his fa
 TURNBULL - William. The Board of Directors and staff of Sheltering Arms Childrens Service note with sorrow the death on October 23, 2002 of William Turnbull, past President & longtime Board member. Bill Turnbull was dedicated to improving the lives of disadvantaged children, and to the work
 KORN-Jack 6/18/10-10/31/94. Forever remembered and loved by his family.       
 Dr. Roy Hertz, who won an Albert Lasker Medical Research Award in 1972 for an early and remarkably effective drug treatment for a cancerous tumor, died on Monday at his home in Hollywood, Md. He was 93. Dr. Hertz and a co-researcher, Dr. Min Chiu Li, were cited for finding a treatme
 Siegfried Unseld, the head of the major German publishing house Suhrkamp Verlag and the man considered to be Germany's leading literary publisher, died at home in Frankfurt-am-Main on Saturday. He was 78, and had been suffering from the effects of a stroke. During the decades he spe
