 John B. Keane, an Irish writer who recorded the voice of a disappearing generation from his pub in County Kerry, died on Thursday in his beloved hometown, Listowel. He was 73. Mr. Keane died of complications from prostate cancer, which he had been battling for eight years and had me
 John Middleton Murry, a British science fiction writer who published almost two dozen novels and several collections of short stories exploring themes that included how the paranormal might affect ordinary lives, died on April 29. He was 76. The cause was a stroke, The Times of Lond
 Nathan Smith, the raspy-voiced manager at the Sunshine Hotel, one of the Bowery's last flophouses, died on Sunday at a hospital in Queens. He was 65. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Brenda Smith Johnson. Mr. Smith gained a measure of unlikely fame by hanging on to a
 BERGER-William P. Founder and president of Bill Berger Associates literary agency, died of cancer on May 28, 2002 at Cabrini Hospice, New York City. He is survived by his sister Florence Lynne, four nephews and three nieces. Known for his humor and charm, Bill will definitely be missed by f
 KATZ-Adam Jeffrey, 34, of Wilton, CT, unexpectedly in Los Angeles on May 30, 2002. He will be dearly missed by Julie Sillins Katz and their three sons, Zachary, Nicholas and Jonathan Henry, his mother, Holly Katz Klein, his father, Howard C. Katz, sisters, Betsey and Sara, and his grandmoth
 KURTIS-Alan A., 83, of Palm Beach, FL, passed away peacefully on May 30. Beloved by family and friends. He is survived by his wife, Arlene, daughter Fran Kurtis and son Jonathan and his wife, Jodi, and four grandchildren. Funeral June 2nd, 11AM at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, Delray Beach. 
 MOLLOY-John Francis Raymond Jr. A resident of Larchmont, died on May 30, 2002 at his home. He was 80. Mr. Molloy was born on April 4, 1922 to the late John Sr. and Nora (O'Leary) Molloy. During World War II he served in the US Navy on the USS Norton Sound. He studied Engineering at the Univ
 SCHLESINGER - Andrew. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Andrew Schlessinger, on Thursday, May 30, 2002. We extend condolences to all of his family. Graveside service will be held Sunday, June 2nd, 2 P.M. at
 TARASOW-Marc Simon, Dr. Died on May 30, 2002. Born March 14, 1966 in Buffalo to Helene (nee Toub) Tarasow and the late Rabbi Morris Tarasow. A graduate of SUNY Binghamton & Downstate Medical School. He worked in a variety of Emergency Medical Care Clinics. A funny man who was full of life, 
 Robert L. Bien, a prolific architect who designed a number of Manhattan apartment buildings from 1959 to 1967, often using the fashionable white-brick facades of the era, died on May 25 at his home near Stuyvesant Square in Lower Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, s
 Clinton Adams, an artist and writer and one of the most important influences on the development of fine-art printmaking in America, died on May 13 at his home in Albuquerque. He was 83. In 1960, Mr. Adams helped start the renowned Tamarind Lithography Workshop in Los Angeles with th
 David Cohen, who led John's Bargain Stores to the top rungs of discount retailing in the 1960's, died on Thursday at his home in Medford, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Blanche, said. He also had a home in Delray Beach, Fla. John's Bargain Store -- with
 BIEN-Robert L. Prominent New York City mid-century architect and a distinguished gentleman, died on May 25, 2002. Our mentor and friend, the consummate professional who always had time for a story and a laugh. Mr. Bien was a walking historian of New York City and its architecture. Our deepe
 DEVENEY-Kenneth. Of Manhattan, former senior art restorer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on May 25 after a courageous and dignified battle with lung cancer, as reported by his Friend of 39 years, Dr. Prospero Sanidad.       
 GLIEDMAN-Anthony. On May 31, 2002. Beloved husband of Virginia. Loving father of Gregory and Christopher. Cherished son of Rae. Dear brother of Kenneth. Service Tuesday, June 4, 11:45 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory may be made to Pr
 GOLDMAN-Bob (Jerome). Of Westport, CT, age 88, died peacefully at his home on May 30, 2002. His life was one of integrity & caring, sharing joys with family & friends. He will be dearly missed by his wife Stemmie, daughters: Sue and Gwen, sons-in-law: Jay Rosenblum and Peter McLoughlin, & g
 GRAHAM-Francis D., 89. Died on May 24, 2002. Of Walnut Creek, CA, previously of Cedar Grove and West Orange, NJ. He is survived by his wife of sixty-three years, Rosalind (Hausthor); his daughter Susan Graham Harrison of Orinda, CA; his son Kenneth R. Graham of Berkeley Heights, NJ; his gra
 GUASCO-Jeffrey. Passed away in San Francisco on May 25, 2002 from cancer. Born May 9, 1956, Jeff received his Bachelor's from San Francisco State University and his Master's from the London School of Economics. An international stockbroker, Jeff lived in New York, London, Hong Kong and Sing
 HYMS-Milton Louis ''Ed''. Died 4/ 27/02 at age 88. Merchant Marine 1928-1930. Entered U.S. Navy 1930. Served in WW II in Atlantic and Pacific campaigns on the submarines: S11, R-14, S-20, Balao, and Muskellunge. Awarded S/M Combat Award. Retired 1953 as a Chief Petty Officer. Ran Harbor Sur
 KAPLAN-Benjamin B. Passed unexpectedly Friday, May 24, 2002, one day and one month short of his 100th birthday. We cannot describe how much this extraordinary man will be missed by his many dear relatives and loving friends. He is survived by his devoted wife, Eleanor; beloved children, Jor
 KATZ-Adam Jeffrey, 34, of Wilton, CT, unexpectedly in Los Angeles on May 30, 2002. He will be dearly missed by Julie Sillins Katz and their three sons, Zachary, Nicholas and Jonathan Henry, his mother, Holly Katz Klein, his father, Howard C. Katz, sisters, Betsey and Sara, and his grandmoth
 MARIAM-Rudolph K. ''Ralph.'' Of Kew Gardens, NY, on May 31, 2002, at the age of 90. Devoted husband of Lisa Mariam for 60 years. Beloved father of Rita Golden and her husband, Steven, of Scarsdale, NY, and Tom Mariam and his wife, Alyce, of Rye Brook, NY. Proud grandfather of Meredith and A
 MCKESSON-John Alexander. On May 21, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Erna McKesson. Devoted father of John A. McKesson. John was a career foreign service officer and former US Ambassador to Gabon. He was also the Associate Editor of Arts d'Afrique Noire and an adjunct Professor of politics
 REUSCH-Dr. Alfred S. Of Massapequa, NY (formerly of Great Neck), on May 31, 2002, at the age of 94. Beloved husband of Gladys Rinard Reusch. Loving father of Alfred R. (Ann) and Robert (Eileen). Cherished grandfather of Devon and Lisa and Christine and Matthew. Adored great-grandfather of t
 ROSS-Frank, Sr. The Board of Directors and staff of Queens CP, grateful for his support of their efforts, extend their sympathies to the family of Frank Ross, Sr.       
 SHORE-Allan E. On May 27, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Carol Tilles. Devoted father of Allan E. Shore Jr. and his wife Jill, William T. Shore & Marylu Simon. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Christopher, Beth, Michael and Julie and great-grandfather of Benyamin Yaakov and Dovid. He w
 WERNICK-William, 91, recently of Newton, MA and previously of Brookline, MA; Yonkers, NY, The Bronx, NY; and Great Barrington, MA, died May 16th at his home. He was the husband of the late Ruth Lindenbaum Wernick, father of Peter Wernick (Joan) of Niwot, CO and Sarah Wernick (William Locker
 Alfred Fleishman, a public relations executive who helped found the firm Fleishman-Hillard and was an eyewitness to the horrors of the Holocaust, died on Tuesday at his home in Creve Coeur, Mo. He was 96. Mr. Fleishman helped lay the foundation for Fleishman-Hillard, which is based 
 ASTOR-Bernard. Of Manhattan and Millerton, NY, age 88, died peacefully at his home on June 2, 2002. He graduated Brooklyn Law School, Phi Beta Kappa, in 1937, and served in the Army in the Judge Advocate's Office, and spent most of his career as a sales executive in Manhattan. He will be de
 CRUIKSHANK-Harold T. 85, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of London, England, passed away on May 30, 2002. Mr. Cruikshank was born and attended high school in Glen Ridge, NJ. He then joined the US Navy and served in the South Pacific Theater from 1941 to 1945. Mr. Cruikshank retired from Esso
 DEROW-Dr. Joshua Reynolds. Born November 3, 1911, New York City, died June 1, 2002, Hastingson-Hudson, in his home. Survived by his wife Dr. Elisabeth F. Derow-Turnauer, his daughter Deborah Bruenell (Craig), grandsons Brad and Saul Bruenell, brother Bernard S. Derow, and nieces, a nephew a
 DEWEY-Gordon Chipman. Age 79, died peacefully on May 30, 2002 at his home in New York City. Mr. Dewey was born in New York on April 9, 1923, to the late Fredrick A. and Elisabeth (Braley) Dewey and is the grandson of John Dewey, the American philosopher and educator. Mr. Dewey studied nucle
 FOX-Bill. On Saturday, June 1, 2002, Bill Fox, age 50, left this world after suffering fatal injuries from a bicycle accident. Cyclist, baker, kaleidoscope maker, he was above all loving, thoughtful and generous with himself in the most creative ways. We, his family, will miss his delightfu
 GLIEDMAN-Anthony. On May 31, 2002. Beloved husband of Virginia. Loving father of Gregory and Christopher. Cherished son of Rae. Dear brother of Kenneth. Service Tuesday, June 4, 11:45 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory may be made to Pr
 KATZ-Adam Jeffrey, 34, of Wilton, CT, unexpectedly in Los Angeles on May 30, 2002. He will be dearly missed by Julie Sillins Katz and their three sons, Zachary, Nicholas and Jonathan Henry, his mother, Holly Katz Klein, his father, Howard C. Katz, sisters, Betsey and Sara, and his grandmoth
 LLOYD-Rev. Dr. Nathaniel Tyler. The Reverend Dr. Nathaniel Tyler Lloyd, Pastor of Trinity Baptist Church in the Williamsbridge section of the Bronx, New York, passed away on Wednesday, May 29, 2002. He was 71 years old. Pastor Lloyd came to Trinity Baptist Church in 1960. During his 42 year
 SWEENEY - Francis James ''Frank''. Passed away peacefully at his home on Hutchinson Island, Jensen Beach, Florida, on June 1. He was 80 years of age. Born in Manhattan on May 11, 1922, he was the third son of Charles A. Sweeney (FDNY) and Mary Sweeney (nee Devaney). He was a WWII veteran of
 Albin Krebs, a reporter for The New York Times who specialized in writing obituaries of prominent artists, performers and politicians, died on Friday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 73. The cause was cancer, Robert Krebs, his nephew, said. His obituary subjects ranged f
 Anthony B. Gliedman, who as commissioner of New York City's Department of Housing Preservation and Development emphasized efforts to build housing for the homeless, died on Friday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 59 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was heart failure,
 Col. Henry A. Potter, who navigated the lead bomber in the United States' first attack on Japan in World War II, died on Memorial Day in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 83. Four months after Pearl Harbor, the Doolittle raid, named for the pilot of the lead plane, Lt. Col. James
 Jacques Fauvet, who ran France's most prestigious daily newspaper, Le Monde, for more than a decade, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 87. He had been hospitalized several days earlier after a fall at home, said his daughter Laurence Rey. After joining the paper at the end o
 Lew R. Wasserman, the former chairman and chief executive of the Music Corporation of America, who was arguably the most powerful and influential Hollywood titan in the four decades after World War II, died yesterday in Beverly Hills. He was 89. The man considered the last of the le
 BECKER-Sam. Passed away on June 3, 2002. Most cherished husband of Betty (nee Gurkin). Devoted father of Andrea & Alberto, Neil & Janet, Richard & Romy, Eric & Jayne. Adored grandfather of Jessica and Michael. A man of great conviction, a true gentleman and scholar, Sam was a real mensch wh
 DEROW-Dr. Joshua Reynolds. Born November 3, 1911, New York City, died June 1, 2002, Hastingson-Hudson, in his home. Survived by his wife Dr. Elisabeth F. Derow-Turnauer, his daughter Deborah Bruenell (Craig), grandsons Brad and Saul Bruenell, brother Bernard S. Derow, and nieces, a nephew a
 DEWEY-Gordon Chipman. 79, died peacefully May 30, 2002, at his home in New York City. Mr. Dewey was born in New York on April 9, 1923, to the late Frederick A. and Elisabeth (Braley) Dewey and is the grandson of John Dewey, the American philosopher and educator. Mr. Dewey studied nuclear ph
 GATES-James Benedict. 64, on June 3, 2002. It is with deepest sadness that we announce the passing of James Benedict Gates. He leaves his sister Patricia Gates and his nephew Joseph Gates of Massachusetts. He also leaves devoted, close friends, Ben Wichman, Ursula Meyer, Jeannie Michaels an
 GLIEDMAN - Anthony. A very special, talented and rare gentleman; a wonderful housing innovator who carved a niche in the mosaic of the City of New York. Those who were fortunate to know him and call him friend, will miss him deeply. Former President AMREP Corporation; former Housing Commiss
 JAVORS-Sol, of Long Beach, N.Y., peacefully at his home on June 3, 2002. He was the devoted husband of Geraldine, loving father of Russell and Suzanne Javors, Lynne and Robert Bernhard, and Amy and Bruce Pruzansky. Cherished grandfather of Jesse, Julia and Molly. Services Wednesday, 10 AM a
 LLOYD-Rev. Dr. Nathaniel Tyler. The Reverend Dr. Nathaniel Tyler Lloyd, Pastor of Trinity Baptist Church in the Williamsbridge section of the Bronx, New York, passed away on Wednesday, May 29, 2002. He was 71 years old. Pastor Lloyd came to Trinity Baptist Church in 1960. During his 42 year
 MAHONEY-Most Reverend James P., D.D., retired Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of NY, died June 1, 2002, at Calvary Hospital. He was born in Kingston, NY, on August 16, 1925, to James A. and Ella (Daly) Mahoney. He graduated from Blessed Sacrament Parochial School and following graduatio
 MARGOLIN-Martin. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams,President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 ORMAN-Robert. Age 86, died May 31, 2002. World War II veteran, devoted family man, we will miss him.       
 ROSENZVEIG-Max. Beloved husband of Pearl; father of Regina (Roger) Gradess and Bonni (Steven) Kraus; grandfather of Yashi, Olivia, Tzivya, Shoshana, Daniel and Aviva; oldest brother of Jack, Joseph and Ruth; brother-inlaw of Faith; uncle of Bobby, Helene, Holly and Laurie, passed away from 
 RUESCH-Dr. Alfred S. Of Massapequa, NY (formerly of Great Neck), on May 31, 2002, at the age of 94. Beloved husband of Gladys Rinard Ruesch. Loving father of Alfred R. (Ann) and Robert (Eileen). Cherished grandfather of Devon and Lisa and Christine and Matthew. Adored great-grandfather of t
 SCHRAMM - Theodore A., M.D. June 1st. One of the first graduates of Bronx Science, he was a practicing psychotherapist in Louisville, KY, certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology, and a former Board member of the Group Psychotherapy Foundation of NY. Survived by wife Shir
 SHATZKIN - Leonard. Died on May 11, 2002, at home, aged 82. Survived by his wife of 62 years, Eleanor; son, Mike; daughters, Karen and Nance, three granddaughters. Publishing executive for The Viking Press, Doubleday, Collier Macmillan, and McGraw-Hill. Publishing industry analyst, author o
 SHUMAN-Alden. On June 3rd, 2002 at age 77. Devoted brother to Earl and sister-inlaw Peggy. Beloved uncle to Cathy, Daniel and Steve. Adored cousin to the Kaplan Family of Washington, DC and California. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursday, June 6th, 4
 SONNENKLAR-Dr. Norman. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member, Dr. Norman Sonnenklar. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Rose Schecter, President       
 WENTWORTH-Francis Xavier, Sr., on June 3, 2002, of Ocean City, NJ, and Naples, FL. Beloved husband of fiftytwo years of Margaret ''Peggy'' (nee McKenna). Loving father of Kathleen Lavell of Convent Station, NJ, Kevin Wentworth of High Bridge, NJ, MaryAnn Wentworth of Boonton Township, NJ, S
 Joseph Garba, a Nigerian soldier turned diplomat who helped organize a military coup that briefly restored civilian rule to his country, died on Saturday in the capital, Abuja. He was 58. No cause of death was given in The Associated Press report of his death. On July 29. 19
 Martin Esslin, a drama critic, teacher and author of ''The Theater of the Absurd,'' a seminal book that identified and codified experimental playwrights with a tragicomic view of what he called ''a world that has gone mad,'' died on Feb. 24 in London. He was 83. For many years, Mr. 
 BECKER-Sam. CPA. The Partners and Staff of Livingston Wachtell & Co., LLP express our heartfelt sorrow at the loss of our dear friend. For over 25 years at the Firm, Sam counseled his clients in a scholarly, as well as, more importantly, a caring manner. His kindness and soft spoken demeano
 BRAND-Herman D., died on May 26. He is survived by his wife, Ariela; children, Ronna Sussman and Del Brand; grandchildren, David Eppner (Audry), Allison Bauer (Robert) and Jeremy Sussman (Rebecca); great-grandchildren, Jacob Eppner, Harris, Phinneas, and Niall Bauer, and Samuel Sussman. His
 COSNER-Clark J. Age 48, of Crystal River, FL, died June 1, 2002. He is survived by his parents Joseph and Dorothy Cosner, and two sisters.       
 DEWEY-Gordon Chipman. 79, died peacefully May 30, 2002, at his home in New York City. Mr. Dewey was born in New York on April 9, 1923, to the late Frederick A. and Elisabeth (Braley) Dewey and is the grandson of John Dewey, the American philosopher and educator. Mr. Dewey studied nuclear ph
 DUNHAM-B. Dwight, Jr, 71. On June 4, 2002, in Norwalk, CT. Loving father of Jennifer, Timothy, James and the late Christopher. Devoted grandfather of Willow, Tristan and Timothy Pears. He is also survived by brother, Thomas and sister, Elaine Knowles. Memorial service to be announced. Memor
 DYAS-James. 80. Of Lakeland, Fla. Mourned by Tomie, his wife of 54 years, children Kathy and J.B. and grandson Derek. He served as a paratrooper with the OSS in WW II, directed over 400 plays on Broadway, Off Broadway, stock, regional and community theatre. Donations may be made to the Acto
 FOSTER-E. Stephen. November 22, 1963-June 3, 2002. A Southern gentleman and a dedicated Brooklynite, Stephen was an ebullient human being with extraordinary political knowledge, an unmatchable sense of humor, and true joy in life. Stephen was Director of Government Affairs at Brooklyn Publi
 GELMAN-Jonathan. The Officers, Trustees and members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the untimely passing of Jonathan Gelman, beloved husband of Diane, and loving son-in-law of our esteemed Cantor Emeritus Erno Grosz and his wife Anne. Our hearts are with the family at this painful t
 GLIEDMAN - Anthony B. Friends of Virginia Gliedman express their profound sympathy to Ginny and the Gliedman family on the loss of their beloved husband and father. Ginny's love and support encouraged Tony during his successful career in public service and private industry and sustained him
 HANLEY-Thomas Aloysius, Sr. Suddenly on June 4, 2002 in Port Washington, NY. Beloved husband of Maureen. Devoted father of Dorothy McGovern (Lawrence), Maureen Reedy (John), Ellen Whiteman (Brian), Thomas, Jr. and John (Jennifer). Loving grandfather of fifteen wonderful grandchildren. Dear 
 LASKEY-Norman F., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. Dr. Laskey came to Mount Sinai in 1925 as a resident in the Department of Surgery, and devoted the next 60 years to clinical teaching and the excellent
 MORRIS - Robert. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams,President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 MOYER-Donald. On May 30, 2002 in New York. His friends are deeply saddened by his loss, but very grateful for the joy and sweetness he bought into our lives.       
 SHUMAN-Alden. On June 3rd, 2002 at age 77. Devoted brother to Earl and sister-inlaw Peggy. Beloved uncle to Cathy, Daniel and Steve. Adored cousin to the Kaplan Family of Washington, DC and California. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursday, June 6th, 4
 SIDES-Fred H. Age 86. Died Monday, June 3, 2002 at home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was born in Charlotte, N.C. and educated at Wake Forest, Davidson College and at UNC Chapel Hill. His business career spanned six decades, ranging from senior positions in transportation and printing, to executi
 SONNENKLAR-Dr. Norman, joined the staff of the Department of Anesthesiology as a House Staff Officer in 1967 and was appointed to the faculty as an Assistant Clinical Professor in 1968. In 1984, he assumed responsibilities as Director of Urologic Anesthesia and Assistant Clinical Coordinato
 WASSERMAN-Lew R. birthright israel mourns the death of our philanthropic partner, Lew Wasserman. A distinguished humanitarian and civil rights activist, his generous support helped make birthright israel a reality for thousands of young adults. Our condolences to his wife Edie, his daughter
 WENTWORTH-Francis Xavier, Sr., on June 3, 2002, of Ocean City, NJ, and Naples, FL. Beloved husband of fiftytwo years of Margaret ''Peggy'' (nee McKenna). Loving father of Kathleen Lavell of Convent Station, NJ, Kevin Wentworth of High Bridge, NJ, MaryAnn Wentworth of Boonton Township, NJ, S
 WORTHINGTON - Elmer Harry, 91, of Southbury, CT, died on June 3, 2002. Mr. Worthington began his banking career at New Milford CT Savings Bank in 1928 leaving as Treasurer in 1942 to attend Harvard Business School Advanced Management Program. Upon graduation he became Treasurer of Belknap M
 Fernando Belaúnde Terry, the soft-spoken idealist who was ousted from the Peruvian presidency by the military in 1968 but won it back in 1980, died on Tuesday in Lima. He was 89. Elected in 1963 with only 39 percent of the vote, Mr. Belaúnde, an American-educated architect who bec
 ARANGO-Milton. It is with great sadness that the Trustees, the Women's Board, the staff and especially the members of The Boys' Club of New York note the death of their dear friend on June 4th. ''Miltie'' joined the club in 1945 as a swimming coach at the Jefferson Park Clubhouse, eventuall
 BAIGELMAN-Henry C. June 2, 2002, beloved husband, father, grandfather, and uncle. Born in Lodz, Poland in 1911, survived World War II in The Lodz Ghetto, and was a survivor of Auschwitz. Married for fifty-five years to his wife, Gita, also a survivor. A talented violinist, composer and band
 GILLIES-Ewen. Of Manhattan, June 3, 2002, age 77, of cancer at Calvary Hospital. He was founder of Gillies and Zaiser, a public relations firm. Beloved husband of the late Carol Zaiser Gillies. He will be greatly missed by his surviving sons Lindsay, Elliot and Adrian, his daughters-in-law 
 GOTTLIEB-Paul. Paul Gottlieb began his involvement at The Museum of Modern Art more than 30 years ago, initially as an advisor to its publishing activities. He became an integral part of the MoMA family when in 1975 he joined the Museum's Board of Trustees where he served actively until now
 KASSELL-Mortimer M. Died June 2, 2002, at his home in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. Age 97. Graduate of CCNY 1926 and Columbia Law School 1929. Former Deputy Commissioner and Counsel, Department of Taxation and Finance, State of New York, 1937-1959. Beloved husband of the late Minette Berman Kas
 KATZ-Adam Jeffrey. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the tragic passing of Adam Jeffrey Katz, son of Howard C. Katz who is a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Our hearts and prayers are with the Katz family at this very difficu
 KATZ-Murray. Beloved husband of Loretta. Devoted father of Philip (Leilani), Steven, Cathy Fisher (Steven), Lori Zaintz (Marc) and Suzy. Cherished grandfather of Zak, Hilary and Richard. Dear brother Allen (Eleanor) and the late Blanche Finkel (Alfred). Services on Friday at 1 P.M., ''Sinai
 LASKEY-Norman F. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our oldest member Dr. Norman F. Laskey. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his wife Jane and his family. Jacqueline Bellsey, President Leonar
 MEYER - Wolfgang. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the brother of its devoted member of the Board of Trustees, Manfred Meyer. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 MINESS-Irwin. Died on June 5, 2002 in his 87th year in Greenwich Hospital after a long illness. He leaves a grieved family; his wife Nina who shared his life for almost fifty-nine years, his children Joan & Robert, his daughterin-law Jane, his beloved granddaughter Melissa and his sister Sy
 SCHINDEL-Paul A. age 47, on June 3, 2002, of Riverdale, NY formerly of New Milford, NJ. He was a Real Estate Broker in New York City and he received his Masters Degree in Business Administration from Fordham University. He is survived by his mother Eleanor Schindel, brother Barry and sister
 SCHUMAN - Charles. The Bard College community mourns the passing of Charles Schuman, who for many years served with dedication and distinction as Bard's public relations director. His warmth, wit, and skill served the college well, and he was regarded throughout the Bard community as a resp
 SHUMAN-Alden. On June 3rd, 2002 at age 77. Devoted brother to Earl and sister-inlaw Peggy. Beloved uncle to Cathy, Daniel and Steve. Adored cousin to the Kaplan Family of Washington, DC and California. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursday, June 6th, 4
 SONNENKLAR - Norman, M.D. The Medical Board of Elmhurst Hospital Center and the entire medical staff mourn the loss of Norman Sonnenklar, M.D. We express our sincere condolences to his wife, Susan, and sons, Eric and Alan, and their families. Until his retirement, Dr. Sonnenklar was the Dir
 WASSERMAN - Lew. The board of directors and staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) mourn the loss of their friend and benefactor, Lew Wasserman. As a prominent executive in the entertainment industry, he effected sound, groundbreaking changes in how the business and the 
 Paul Gottlieb, the former publisher and editor in chief of Harry N. Abrams, who helped bring lavishly illustrated fine-art books to a mainstream audience, died yesterday at his home in New York. He was 67. The apparent cause was a heart attack, according to his wife, Elisabeth Schar
 Sandor Konya, a Hungarian tenor who was a mainstay of the Metropolitan Opera roster from 1961 to 1974, died on May 20 at his home on the Spanish island of Ibiza. He was 78. Mr. Konya had a powerful, dramatic voice and was most highly regarded as a Wagnerian tenor. But his broad repe
 Douglas Glenn Colvin, better known as Dee Dee Ramone, the founding bassist and songwriter of the pioneering punk band the Ramones, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles of an apparent heroin overdose. He was 50, and lived in Hollywood. The Los Angeles County Coroner's Office said that hi
 Hubert M. Tibbetts, who helped lead Thomas J. Lipton Inc. as it moved beyond the traditional cup of tea to iced tea in a can and other convenience foods, died on Sunday while bicycling in Armonk, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Gu
 The Rev. James P. Mahoney, a retired auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 76 and had lived in the residence for retired priests at Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains. The cause was canc
 AUERBACH-Leonard W. On June 3, 2002. 84, in New York. Associate Professor Emeritus, Chair, Theatre Arts, SUNY Stony Brook. Production stage manager on Broadway for Raisin In The Sun, Purlie, Owl and Pussycat and others. He leaves his wife Elizabeth Aaron, children Ellen Hans (Kevin), David 
 BILDNER-Bertram S., D.D.S. Of Bedford, N.Y., past president of the New York State Dental Association, on June 4, 2002 at age 69. Dr. Bildner, a graduate of New York University College of Dentistry, was a periodontist in private practice in the Bronx, a clinical professor at Albert Einstein 
 GOLDMAN - David. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. David Goldman, an esteemed member and extend to his family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary       
 GOSSEL-John D., MD, 86. On May 14th. Born in NYC and formerly of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ. Survived by Frances, his wife of 60 years, a daughter Linda Epstein of Greenwich, CT and Naples, Fl, sons James of Corte Madera, CA and John of DC, and four grandchildren. Member of AMA; American Society of Plas
 GOTTLIEB-Paul. Paul Gottlieb began his involvement at The Museum of Modern Art more than 30 years ago, initially as an advisor to its publishing activities. He became an integral part of the MoMA family when in 1975 he joined the Museum's Board of Trustees where he served actively until now
 KONYA-Sandor. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of Sandor Konya, who was heard at the Met from 1961 to 1974 in a broad repertory of leading roles in German and Italian works, including new productions of ''Lohengrin,'' ''Die Meistersinger von Nuernberg,'' and ''Der Freischuetz,
 MEHLMAN-Sidney. Died on June 2, 2002. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. May he always be remembered by his family.       
 SCHUMAN-Charles. The administration, faculty and Board of Overseers of Simon's Rock College of Bard are saddened by the recent death of friend, colleague and neighbor, Charles Schuman. Mr. Schuman made a significant contribution to our understanding of the world through his thoughtful journ
 STEINBERG-Sidney. Words alone cannot erase our saddened feelings by the loss of a true friend. He was an amazing, vibrant friend who touched the lives of all who knew him. However we are very grateful for the joy and sweetness he brought into our lives. The Goldberg Families The Simon Famil
 WASSERMAN-Lew R. The Tisch School of the Arts notes with deep sorrow the passing of our friend and generous benefactor Lew Wasserman. A visionary and pioneering leader in the film industry, he was an enthusiastic supporter of the School as well as a friend and mentor to Dean Mary Schmidt Ca
 Keith Fuller, a newspaper reporter whose career took him from small-town Texas to the top job at the world's largest news agency, the Associated Press, died yesterday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 79. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, the Associated Press reported.        
 Nathan Mantel, who in the 1950's developed statistical techniques still widely used in epidemiology and cancer research, died on May 25 at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, said his granddaughter Lauren Hale. Mr. Mantel was best known for the 
 BAKST-Jerome Henry. On June 7, 2002, age 83, in Verona, N.J. Retired National Director of Research and Evaluation for the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith. Former reporter and editor for N.Y. newspapers. Editor at The Voice of America. 1940 graduate of Harvard College. Survived by his
 GOTTLIEB-Paul. Paul Gottlieb began his involvement at The Museum of Modern Art more than 30 years ago, initially as an advisor to its publishing activities. He became an integral part of the MoMA family when in 1975 he joined the Museum's Board of Trustees where he served actively until now
 WASSERMAN-Lew. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of Lew Wasserman, a devoted friend of Jerusalem whose generous spirit will live on in the projects he helped to bring to life. His support for the Jerusalem Cinematheque expressed his deep commitment to the cultural life that has en
 BAKST-Jerome Henry. On June 7, 2002, age 83, in Verona, N.J. Retired National Director of Research and Evaluation for the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith. Former reporter and editor for N.Y. newspapers. Editor at The Voice of America. 1940 graduate of Harvard College. Survived by his
 BARKLEY-Dan. Of New City, NY, died suddenly on June 7. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Mitchell and Jill. Cherished son of Margot. Loving grandfather of Brian, Alex, Jonah and Samuel. Adored father-in-law of Amy and Ronnie. This extraordinary person of unusual accomplishment a
 BILDNER-Bertram S., D.D.S. Age 68. Of Bedford, N.Y. Beloved husband of Stephanie (nee Gralnick). Loving father of David (Lauren), Leslie (Randi), Rachelle (Steven) Axel and Daniel (Melissa). Cherished grandfather of Chaviva, Moshe, Yael, Miriam and Dina Bildner, Nathalie Axel, and Alexander
 BOSSE-Malcolm Joseph Jr. Died on May 3, 2002. Author of 20 novels. Professor of literature. Father of Mark Bosse and husband of Lori Mack. His work will be cherished after those now living are long gone.       
 BRODER-Steven R. On June 6, 2002. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Lindsay and Tara. Loving son of Rosalind. Dear brother of Daryl and Howard Kerker and Scott and Fay Broder. Loving son-in-law of Elaine Harris. You were a wonderful man and we will miss you forever. BROD
 BURCHELL-George D. Of Larchmont, a retired Supreme Court Justice died June 7, 2002, at the Sarah Neuman facility in Larchmont, New York. He was 92, born on October 7, 1909, to Edgar and Josie Burchell. A retired Justice of the New York Supreme Court, he was a graduate of Amherst College and
 CRONIN-Raymond V., Jr. Of South Salem, NY, passed away after a long illness on June 8. He is survived by his wife Gwen of 45 years and his children Kevin, Peter, Brian, Tracie and Courtney, and his granddaughter Sarah.       
 DUBE-Jackson E. Like Scaramouche, he was born with the gift of laughter and a sense that the world was mad. A native New Yorker, Jack died at the age of 79 on May 29 at his home in Chapel Hill NC with his wife Patricia and his family at his side. His dynamic career as a film importer and di
 FIERTAG-Abe. On June 8, 2002. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Loving father of Neal and Wendy (Anthony). Cherished grandfather of Stephanie and Eve. Services on Sunday, 11 AM, Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 2nd Avenue and 10th. He'll be missed. His jokes, too.       
 GOLDSTEIN-Martin H. On June 7, 2002, of Jericho, LI. Beloved husband of Arlene. Devoted father of Lainie. Dear brother of Barry. Services Sunday, at 12 noon, at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI. GOLDSTEIN-Martin. He accepted every challenge head on with a smile. 
 GREELEY-Robert G. On June 3, 2002, of Milton, MA. Survived by his devoted wife Mary Jane, step-children Christopher Getch, Holly Getch-Clarke and loving daughters Susan W., Sarah B. and Jeanette H. Greeley. Graduate of Milton Academy (Classes 1939 and 1940) and Princeton University (Class o
 KATZ-Adam Jeffrey. The Trustees, faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine and NYU Hospitals Center extend our heartfelt condolences to our treasured friend and trustee, Howard Katz and his wife Ellen on the tragic death of Howard's son, Adam Jeffrey Katz. We mourn Adams passing and offer
 KAY-Albert, nee Kizelstein, 87, Chairman of Albert Kay Associates, Inc., Concert Artists Management, international representatives of performing artists, having graced the fields of opera and classical music virtually his entire adult life, passed June 1. Our renowned impresario we lovingly
 KEAN - Stewart Barney. (1934-2002). A resident of Las Vegas, NV, and Union, NJ, died at the Center for Hope Hospice in Elizabeth, NJ, on Thursday, June 6, 2002. He saw his dream come true when the family home was converted into a public museum. He spent much of his life at Liberty Hall in U
 MARSHALL - Frederic, 90, died peacefully on June 3, 2002 at the home of his son in Rancho Santa Fe, CA. Mourned by Margaret, his wife of 64 years. Devoted father of Dr. Lawrence F. Marshall of Rancho Santa Fe, CA and his wife Sharon and of Dr. Robert Marshall of Chicago, IL. Beloved grandfa
 NICHOLS-Stuart E. Jr., M.D. 67, former President of the New York County District branch American Psychiatric Association, and founder of the Gay and Lesbian Psychiatrists of NY 1982, passed away on June 6, 2002, after a long bout with heart disease. He was much admired and respected for his
 RISTINE-J. Rolland. 70, an architect of many talents and wide interests, died on May 30, 2002, of cancer at Mt. Sinai Hospital in NYC. He is survived by a daughter, Sarah E.; a son, Peter J.; their mother, Sue Peterson Ristine; a half-sister, Dollie Cring; a niece, Diana Mars; a nephew, Rol
 SWEENY-John Paul. 73, of Huntington Beach, CA, found eternal peace on May 30. Born and raised in New York City, Dr. Sweeny received his secondary schooling at De La Salle Institute, pre-med at Manhattan College, and graduated from New York University Medical School in 1956. Military service
 SWEET-Howard Clinton, Jr., 70. Died peacefully on May 28, 2002 in Sandy Beach, Australia. Previously of Charlestown, Rhode Island and Bronxville, New York. Graduated from Brown University with honors in 1954 and The University of Virginia Law School in 1959. He was commissioned in the U.S. 
 TICINETO-Felix L. On June 6, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Josephine. Loving father of Virginia Steppe and Patricia T. Clough, son Daniel. Devoted grandfather of Daniel Steppe, Alissa Maples, Christopher M. Clough and Kevin Maples. Also survived by his brother Alfred. Loving great-grand
 WAAGE-Jan. Died on June 3, 2002. He was predeceased by his wife Nancy Smith Waage and is survived by his mother, sister, two brothers and eight nieces and nephews all of whom loved him very much. There will be a memorial service at a future date. Contributions in his memory can be sent to C
 WASSERMAN-Lew. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of Lew Wasserman, a devoted friend of Jerusalem whose generous spirit will live on in the projects he helped to bring to life. His support for the Jerusalem Cinematheque expressed his deep commitment to the cultural life that has en
 ZWIRN-Bernard P. Died June 4, 2002. Age 77. Loving and beloved husband of Michele (nee Rogers), father of Lisa and Richard, grandfather of Alex and Todd Granoff, Jamie and Ethan Zwirn, father-in-law of Mark Granoff and Kay Hughes, and brother of Ruth. He will be deeply missed.       
 SHEPPARD-Dr. H. L. (Shep). 10 years. As long as we live, he too will live for he is a part of us as we remember him.       
 Vicente Nebrada, the director of the National Ballet of Caracas and an internationally known choreographer, died on May 26 at home in Caracas, Venezuela. He was 72 and lived in Caracas and New York. The cause was leukemia, said Zane Wilson, his colleague and companion. Mr. N
 Alan M. Kranowitz, whose knack for bipartisan politics during his tenure as chief Congressional liaison for Ronald Reagan helped further the president's second-term legislative agenda, died on June 3 at a hospital here. He was 61 and lived in Bethesda, Md. He died after a long battl
 Charles Ede, who responded to the dreary appearance of books in austere postwar Britain by starting the Folio Society to create beautiful editions at affordable prices, died on May 29 at a clinic in Hampshire, England. A resident of Newbury in Berkshire, he was 80. The cause was hea
 GOLDSTEIN-Martin. He will be missed. One of a kind. His love of family and work ethic was only exceeded by the size of his heart. A selfless man who never said ''no'' to anyone. He enjoyed life and we reveled in having him as an intimate member of our family. Irene and Allen Goldstein and F
 GREENBERG-Mark. 96, of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Mt. Vernon, NY. Husband of the late Dorothy Greenberg. He is survived by children Norman (Anita) Greenberg and Sarah (Sy) Donner, six grandchildren, one greatgrandchild. Graveside services will be Wednesday, June 12, 11 AM, at Mt. Pleasant 
 HARRISON-David A. III. Of Prince George County, Virginia, on June 8, 2002, from complications of Alzheimer's disease at age 85. Born on August 30, 1916, to David A. and Elizabeth D. Harrison. Graduated from the Episcopal High School, Alexandria, VA, and received his undergraduate and law de
 IVERS-Philip ''Skitch.'' On June 9, 2002. He is survived by his wife Nancy; children Cathi Rimalower, Mitchell, Daniel Isaacs and Kim Katz; sons-inlaw George Rimalower, Mark Swirsky and Elliot Katz; daughter-in-law Lisa Isaacs; grandchildren Benjamin, Lucy and Harry Rimalower and Steffanie 
 KOSLOV-Joseph. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Cherished father of Judy Koslov, Fred (with his wife Julie) Koslov, and Josh (with his wife Maryann) Koslov. Adored grandfather of Elizabeth and Huck. Services Monday, June 10, 1 PM, at the Beth Moses Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY. KOSLOV-
 POLL-Gerard. Beloved husband of Suzi. Devoted father of Eric and his wife Susan, Sheryl and Caryn. Cherished grandfather of Emily. Loving brother of Carol. Services Monday, 10 AM, at RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza (opposite the LIRR), Great Neck, NY.       
 SWEENY-John Paul. 73, of Huntington Beach, CA, found eternal peace on May 30. Born and raised in New York City, Dr. Sweeny received his secondary schooling at De La Salle Institute, pre-med at Manhattan College, and graduated from New York University Medical School in 1956. Military service
 WIGHT-John Welles. Of Maplewood, NJ, formerly of Skidaway Island, GA, and Madison, NJ, on June 7, 2002. Husband of 61 years to the late Elma Needles Wight. Father of Susan Wight Poinier of Duxbury, MA, John Welles Wight, Jr. of Madison, NJ and William Needles Wight of Short Hills, NJ. Broth
 WYATT-Dr. Richard J. On Friday, June 7, 2002, of Washington, DC. Beloved husband of Dr. Kay R. Jamison, father of Elizabeth Wyatt of New York, NY, Christopher Wyatt of Washington, DC and Justin Wyatt of New York, NY, and his sister Donna. Friends may call at Joseph Gawler's Sons, 5130 Wisco
 Rogers Albritton, a philosophy professor at the University of California at Los Angeles and Harvard who was known for probing and engaging lectures in which he rarely came to a definitive conclusion about a question, died on May 21. He was 78. The cause was chronic emphysema, said h
 Benjamin Ward, who began his career as a traffic officer in white gloves on First Avenue, moved through a succession of state and city law-enforcement posts and eventually became the first black commissioner of the New York City Police Department, died yesterday at a Queens hospital. He was
 Dr. Donald S. Fredrickson, the former director of the National Institutes of Health and the Howard Hughes Medical Research Institute who discovered two genetic disorders and was a leading researcher on the links between lipids and fats and heart disease, died on Friday at his home in Bethes
 John J. Gotti, who seized control of the Gambino crime family in a murderous coup, flaunted his power during a flamboyant reign as a Mafia boss, and then spent the last years of his life locked away in a maximum security penitentiary, his gang in shambles, died yesterday at the federal pris
 Maxwell M. Rabb, former United States ambassador to Italy, died on Sunday at the New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived on the Upper East Side. He died of injuries suffered in a fall while he was walking to his law office, his wife, Ruth, said. Mr. R
 ADELSTEIN-Bernard. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a devoted friend of Israel who was a founder and long time chairman of its Labor Division. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Joshua Matza, Presidential Nominee Burton P. Resnick, Chairman 
 BILDNER-Dr. Bertram S. The Executive Board and the membership of the Bronx County Dental Society mourns the passing of Dr. Bertram S. Bildner, honored colleague, dedicated official and beloved friend. The wisdom, energy, commitment and sense of perspective of our devoted Founder and Past Pr
 GAITI-Ben. Age 89. Of Fort Lee, on June 10, 2002. Beloved father and husband. Loved his family and tennis. We will miss him. Services are today, 12 Noon, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W - 150 Route 4 East, Paramus, NJ.       
 GOLDSTEIN-Louis A., Esq. On June 10, 2002, at the age of 81. Beloved husband of Irene for fifty years. Loving father of Melody Kuney, Mitchell and Elissa. Father-in-law to Scott Kuney and Robin. Cherished grandfather of Andre, Allegra, Aaron and Samantha. Dear brother of Rose Minkin. Practi
 IVERS-Philip ''Skitch.'' On June 9, 2002. He is survived by his wife Nancy; children Cathi Rimalower, Mitchell, Daniel Isaacs and Kim Katz; sons-inlaw George Rimalower, Mark Swirsky and Elliot Katz; daughter-in-law Lisa Isaacs; grandchildren Benjamin, Lucy and Harry Rimalower and Steffanie 
 KREMEN - Joseph (Yus). Died June 9, 2002, age 82. Survived by his beloved, cherished wife, Ruth S.; adoring father of Erica and Douglas Rosenthal, Andrea and Arne Kotlen; special, doting grandfather of Ben, Mila, Lizzie Rosenthal, Jessica and Gillian Kotlen. During WWII, a meteorologist in 
 LOMBARD-Lee, native New Yorker and retired professor of English at Pratt Institute, died of lung cancer in Palm Springs, CA on May 27 at age 88. At age 19, he graduated from CCNY, in 1934 received an MA from Columbia University and in 1949 his PhD from NYU. His doctoral dissertation on Afri
 RABB-Maxwell M. June 9, 2002 at age 91. Beloved husband of Ruth; father of Bruce, Sheila Weidenfeld, Emily Livingston and Priscilla Ayres; grandfather of Jeremy Maltby, Alexander and Katy Rabb, and Nicholas and Daniel Weidenfeld; and brother of Warren Rabb, and the late George Rabb and Fran
 RABINOVE-Samuel. At age 79, of White Plains, NY, on June 9, 2002, after a long illness. Devoted and beloved husband of Anna. Cherished father of Beth, Amy, David and Ellen. Loving grandfather of Brian, Daniel, Justin, Zachary and Benjamin. Father-in-law of Barry and Cathie. Also survived by
 ROSSI-Americo ''Rick.'' Of Long Beach, NY, went to the beach in the sky on June 8, 2002. Survived by his wife, Susan M. Flaherty, parents, Americo and Jean Rossi, brothers, Larry and Ronnie, sister, Dolores Nisito, and adoring nieces and nephews.       
 WARD-Benjamin. On June 10, 2002, at age 75. Beloved husband of Olivia. Devoted father to Benjamin Ward, Jr., Jacquelyn Ward, Gregory Ward, Margie Ward Lewis and Mary Ward. Loving grandfather of nine and great-grandfather of two, with numerous nieces, nephews, cousins and godchildren. Friend
 BARKLEY - Daniel. The Board of Trustees and administration of The Jewish Home and Hospital Lifecare System mourn the passing of Daniel Barkley who served as CFO and retired last year after forty years of dedicated service. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his entire family. Fred M.
 BOEHM-Herman. After a long illness, our beloved Herman, 92, ''The Judge,'' died peacefully at home in NYC on June 9, 2002. The ultimate gentleman, he treated everyone with kindness, intelligence, and tact. His generosity of spirit, as well as of his resources, was boundless (CR&T, Habonim P
 BROWN-Wallace A., Jr. Of NY City and Ponte Vedra, FL. Passed away on June 9, 2002. Born July 8, 1920 in Atlantic Beach, FL. to Wallace A. and Nelle C. Brown. Graduated from St. Andrews Academy, Sewanee, Tn. and from North Carolina University, Chapel Hill, class of 1943. Member of the North 
 CARRUS-Gerald. The College of Physicians & Surgeons at Columbia University mourns the passing of Gerald Carrus, a remarkable supporter of medicine and a loyal friend. The scientific and clinical community at Columbia is saddened by his loss. Since he first came to the Medical Center in 1986
 DEVENEY-Kenneth. Died May 25, 2002. At 12 noon on friday June 21, a Mass will be offered for his soul's repose at the Holy Name of Jesus Church, 207 West 66th Street.       
 GOLDMAN-David. Wurzweiler School of Social Work of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the passing of founding Board member and longtime friend David Goldman. Heartfelt condolences to his daughter, Irene Goldman-Price, and son, William Goldman. David and his late wife, Muriel, were YU Gu
 GOTTLIEB-Paul. The Board of Directors of the American Friends of the Hermitage Museum wishes to express their gratitude to Paul Gottlieb for his wisdom and generosity toward The State Hermitage Museum. He was an energetic and active member of our board, and a sincere friend and supporter of
 JOHN - Victor Augustus, MSGT USAF (Retired) on Thursday, June 6, 2002, at Walter Reed Medical Center. The beloved husband of Ivy John. He is also survived by his children Victor, Alissa and Andrew John and Cynthia Laurencin, nine grandchildren, one brother Richardo John and two sisters Ceci
 KNIPE-Timothy W. On behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of Lighthouse International, we are deeply saddened by the loss of Timothy W. Knipe, a longtime friend and supporter of our organization. Mr. Knipe began his extensive and meaningful relationship with the Lighthouse in 1986 as a
 PETERS-Preston Hodgsdon. Passed away Saturday, June 8, 2002 after a short battle with cancer. He was the only son of Marjorie Hodgsdon Stillman and H. Preston Peters. A graduate of Williston Academy and Columbia University, he served in the U.S. Army for three years. He is survived by his d
 RABB-Maxwell M. June 9, 2002, at age 91. Beloved husband of Ruth; father of Bruce, Sheila Weidenfeld, Emily Livingston and Priscilla Ayres; grandfather of Jeremy Maltby, Alexander and Katy Rabb, and Nicholas and Daniel Weidenfeld; and brother of Warren Rabb, and the late George Rabb and Fra
 SULLIVAN-Daniel J. Of New Canaan, CT, on June 10, 2002. Born on November 9, 1932, in Brooklyn, N.Y., to Daniel J. and Mary M. Sullivan and formerly of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. and Katonah, N.Y. Beloved father of Kathryn E. Sullivan of Mt. Vernon, N.Y., Margaret A. Egan of Pawling, N.Y., Danie
 TUCKERMAN-David, 75. On June 11 of cancer, at the Beth Israel Hospice. He loved music, food and wine. He was independent in mind and spirit; he charmed all who encountered him. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to Young Concert Artists, Inc, 250 West 57th St, Suite
 WARD - Benjamin. The trustees and staff of the Vera Institute of Justice extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Benjamin Ward, honorary trustee since 1998 and trustee from 1990-1994. We miss his intelligence, integrity, counsel and good humor. The City has lost a talented and commit
 SLOTKIN-Hugo. Born 90 years ago today and always in our memories. From his Loving Family       
 Dr. Richard J. Wyatt, chief of the neuropsychiatry branch at the National Institute of Mental Health who made early advances in the study and treatment of schizophrenia, died on June 7 in Washington. He was 63. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Dr. Kay Redfield Jamison, a ps
 Bill Blass, the American designer who built a multimillion-dollar business on understated clothes and a keen perception of the taste of upper-income American women, died last night at his home in New Preston, Conn. He was just days short of his 80th birthday. The cause was cancer, s
 CLEVELAND - Richard J., M.D. Of Wellesley, MA. died on June 11, 2002. Husband of Carol (Hossin) Cleveland and the late Marjorie Hanna Cleveland. Father of Richard Jay Cleveland of Natick, MA., Melissa Salameh of Greenwich, CT, and Dr. Janice Washburn of Wellesley. Also survived by his stepd
 FAYYAZ - Shaikh Mo hammed. Passed away on June 8, 2002 in Stamford, CT. Prominent banker with Habib Bank Ltd. in Karachi, Colombo, Beirut, New York and London. He loved his family and he helped a lot of people along the way. He was a pioneer with a mischievous sense of humor. Survived by hi
 KAPLAN-Albert J. On June 11, 2002. Beloved husband of Leah. Cherished father of David and Matthew. Devoted brother of Marvin. Adored grandfather of Manda, Noam, Amital and Yaara. His family and friends will miss him dearly.       
 KARMEL-Morton A. Of Mamaroneck died peacefully at his home on June 12, 2002. He was the principal of Karmel and Co. a CPA firm in NYC for over forty years. He is survived by his wife Kasena (Kay), his daughters, Jane R. Karmel & Mary Cunningham and grandchildren Charlie and Greg. Funeral Se
 MARIN-Murray K., D.D.S. Of Woodmere, L.I., passed away June 12, 2002. Devoted husband of Shiela and honored father of Reina, Michael and Morisa. Beloved grandfather of Rachel, Elissa, Alan, Jordan, Jason, Jacqueline, Benjamin, Laurence and Gregory. Cherished father-in-law of Emilio, Marla a
 RABB-Ambassador Maxwell M. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb. A former member of the Board of Gov
 Malcolm Bosse, an author of best-selling historical fiction and children's books, died on May 3 at his home in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Lori Mack, said. Mr. Bosse was perhaps best known for ''The Warlord,'' 
 BING-Arden Ellsworth (Denny). Of Ossining, NY. June 1, 2002. Funeral and burial in Williamsburg, VA. Is survived by his mother Ellen Louise Bing of Williamsburg, two brothers Richard and Douglas, and their families. A memorial service will be held at the Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Aven
 BLASS-Bill. The Trustees and staff of The New York Public Library deeply mourn the passing of one of the most cherished members of the Library family, Bill Blass. A devoted Trustee, a most generous benefactor, a warm and wise friend, and a sage counselor, Bill Blass embraced with enthusiasm
 CARRUS-Gerald. The Department of Medicine, Division of Endrocrinology and the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center has lost a wise and generous advisor and benefactor. He was a valued member of the Diabetes Advisory Committee who played a key role in the founding of the Center. We are very grateful
 COLE - LEWIS - Jonathan Agabus, fifty, NY, NY, born in Sierra Leone. Funeral Saturday, June 15, 11AM, Rock of Ages Lutheran Church, 5135 Memorial Drive, Stone Mountain, GA. Survived by his daughters, Heather and Yasmin, & their mother, Tina; sisters, Ivy, Winifred, Harolda, and Alice; and m
 GOODWIN-Henry Sage, 97. Of Avon, Connecticut, died at his home on June 12, 2002. He was born October 14, 1904, in New York City, the second son of Walter L. Goodwin and Elizabeth Sage Goodwin (later Elizabeth Sage Hare). He grew up in Hartford, Connecticut, attending Kingswood School and la
 GOTTLIEB-Paul. Japan Society mourns the passing of Paul Gottlieb, a great friend and mentor who initiated our co-publishing venture of exhibition catalogs on Japanese and East Asian art with Harry N. Abrams, Inc. His efforts did much to bring Asian art into the mainstream of art book publis
 GRAB-Frederic D. The Bard College community deeply mourns the passing of Frederick Grab, a longtime faculty member and dear friend. He was a man of uncompromising integrity and deep intellectual and political commitment, and was among the most discerning and exacting of teachers. His sophis
 KAPLAN-Hyman. Father of Bob, Syma Silverman and Harriet Shea. Father-in-law of Marcia, Irwin and Ed. Brother of Ethel Warner and Fay Penn. Brother-in-law of Gladys Kaplan. Adored grandfather and great-grandfather. A memorial service will be held Friday 10AM at ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 
 MARKALOUS - Peter, MD. Retired anesthesiologist, at the Mt. Sinai and St. Joseph Hospitals, passed away on June 11, 2002. We will always remember him as a devoted husband, father and grandfather. The Family       
 ROSS-Frank, Sr. The Board and Staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Frank Ross, Sr. Mr. Ross was a dedicated Boy Scout volunteer. His generous support and concern for the youth of New York City will be long remembered. J
 SMITH-Martin Post. On June 11, 2002, of Bolton Landing, NY, formerly of Garden City, NY. Founding member of both The Lake George Antique Boat Museum and The Saratoga Automobile Museum. Martin was an educator for 32 years, and was a member and past president of the Freeport Rotary Club. He w
 SULLIVAN-Daniel J. Of New Canaan, CT, on June 10, 2002. Born on November 9, 1932, in Brooklyn, N.Y., to Daniel J. and Mary M. Sullivan and formerly of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. and Katonah, N.Y. Beloved father of Kathryn E. Sullivan of Mt. Vernon, N.Y., Margaret A. Egan of Pawling, N.Y., Danie
 Ralph Shapey, a composer whose idiosyncratic style combined the astringent angularity and structural rigor of Serialism with a Romantic passion for lush textures, grand gestures and lyrical melodies, died yesterday at a Chicago hospital. He was 81 and lived in Chicago. His wife, Els
 Rodney Howard Hilton, an influential British Marxist historian who was an expert on medieval social history, died on June 7 at his home in Birmingham, England. He was 85. His scholarship focuses on life of the townspeople and the peasantry of England in the Middle Ages. He was profe
 Tahseen Bashir, the erudite Egyptian diplomat who served as spokesman for the first two post-revolutionary Egyptian presidents and proved a bête noire to the third, died of heart failure in a London hospital on Tuesday. He was 77. Mr. Bashir, the scion of a wealthy Egyptian family,
 Mark Kram, one of Sports Illustrated's most lyrical writers of the 1960's and 70's and the author of a recent book about the tormented relationship between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier, died yesterday in Washington. He was 69. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Mark Kram 
 Martin Aronstein, the five-time Tony Award nominee who was one of the American theater's most prolific lighting designers both on Broadway and beyond, died on May 3 in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 65. The cause was heart failure, said Lawrence Metzler, his companion. In his four 
 BLASS-Bill. The Trustees and staff of The New York Public Library deeply mourn the passing of one of the most cherished members of the Library family, Bill Blass. A devoted Trustee, a most generous benefactor, a warm and wise friend, and a sage counselor, Bill Blass embraced with enthusiasm
 CRIBBIN-Msgr. Thomas F., 85, Assoc. Executive Director, Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn, June 13, after a short illness. He is survived by nieces and nephews, Katherine and Donald Barton, Patrick and Micheline St. John and Mary and Stanley Weglikowski; grandnieces and nephews Donald
 GOTTLIEB-Paul. Paul Gottlieb was a singular voice in the worlds of publishing and art. In more than 20 years as co-publisher with the Whitney Museum of American Art, he helped bring the creativity of American artists to a public far beyond the museum's traditional reach. He will be greatly 
 SILVER-Milton. Of Hamden, CT, formerly of Harrison, NY died on June 13, 2002. Loving husband of the late Elaine (Joseph) Silver. Survived by his daughter, Gail Shepherd, sister Leah Berliner, and grandchildren, Justin, Cory & Toby Shepherd. Predeceased by sisters Freda Silver and Selma Goet
 VORSPAN-Rabbi Max. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1942, he served as Chaplain in the U.S. Army during WW II. He was one of the founders of the University of Judaism & retired as its Senior Vice President Emeritus in 1996. We extend our deepes
 R. W. B. Lewis, the literary critic and Yale scholar who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for his biography of Edith Wharton, died on Thursday at his home in Bethany, Conn. He was 84. Professor Lewis taught English and American studies at Yale from 1959 to 1988, but his knowledge and in
 John A. Cella, who oversaw the development of such skin care products as Visible Difference and Millennium for Elizabeth Arden, died on June 8 in San Diego. He was 76. The cause was kidney failure, said his son Dr. John A. Cella III, a neurologist. The elder Dr. Cella began 
 John Sinkankas, an internationally known mineralogist, gemologist, lapidary, author and illustrator, died on May 17 in San Diego. He was 87. A prolific writer and illustrator, Mr. Sinkankas wrote books that are considered vital references in the field of gems and minerals. His book 
 Dr. Nils R. Ringertz, who helped create a substantial Internet presence for the Nobel Foundation by transforming its outdated Web site into an online museum that includes recorded oral histories, died in his sleep on June 8 at his home in Stockholm. He was 69. The cause of death had
 BLASS-Bill. The Trustees and staff of The New York Public Library deeply mourn the passing of one of the most cherished members of the Library family, Bill Blass. A devoted Trustee, a most generous benefactor, a warm and wise friend, and a sage counselor, Bill Blass embraced with enthusiasm
 CARRUS-Gerald. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the passing of Gerald Carrus, an outstanding philanthropist and friend. Soon after we established the Department's Surgical Science Division, Mr. Carrus and his wife, Janet, generously endowed the Gerald and Janet Carrus Pr
 D'AMELIO - Raymond Joseph, 49. Of New York, New York, died Wednesday in his home. He was an art director for McCann Erickson in Manhattan. Born December 24, 1952 in Milton, PA, he was the son of Joseph and Mary Vane D'Amelio of Palmer Township. He was a graduate of Easton Area High School C
 DEVENEY-Kenneth. Died May 25, 2002. At 12 noon on friday June 21, a Mass will be offered for his soul's repose at the Holy Name of Jesus Church, 207 West 96th Street.       
 DOWD-William P. The Board of Directors of 201 East 79th Street, the building management staff and tenants note with deep sorrow the passing of our resident manager and longtime friend, William P. Dowd. His compassion, kindness and concern for all will long be remembered. We extend sincere s
 KAPLAN-Albert J. On June 11, 2002. Beloved husband of Leah. Cherished father of David and Matthew. Devoted brother of Marvin. Adored grandfather of Manda, Noam, Amital and Yaara. His family and friends will miss him dearly.       
 MULLEN-Rev. Michael F., C.M. Died at Saint Catherine's Infirmary, Philadelphia, PA, on June 13, 2002. Ordained 1941 as a member of the Vincentian Community, Father Mullen served various positions at Saint John's University, Jamaica, NY, since 1947. He is survived by his sisters Rita Holston
 NAPARSTEK-Samuel S.G. With great sorrow we note the passing of beloved husband and father May 15, 2002. Graduated in 1939 from Brooklyn College and 1943 from Columbia University School of Business. Army Air Force Service 1943-1946. Interment Arlington National Cemetery. Highlights of his ca
 NELSON-Robert Attwood. 77. Of Vero Beach, FL and Forestburgh, NY, June 11, 2002 after lung surgery. Born Nyack, NY. A graduate of Northwestern University and University of Chicago, veteran WW II, private pilot, master carpenter and avid tennis player. Survived by his wife Connie Lovatt, chi
 OGATA - Toshifumi. Died Thursday, June 6, 2002. The staff of Gerard Bollei Salon, dear friends Janet and Joseph Paolucci, Matthew Collins, his many friends and clients, mourn the loss of a talented and gentle man. He will be sorely missed. Private memorial to be held on Tuesday, June 18. Co
 PALMER-Robert Roswell, 93. June 11, 2002, in Newtown, PA. Known professionally as R.R. Palmer, he was Dodge Professor of History at Princeton, Professor Emeritus at Yale, and Dean of Arts & Sciences at Washington University in St. Louis. Author of thirteen books, he was best known for his w
 SCHEMPF-Dr. William Heaton, Colonel, USAR, (retired), of Cornwall, New York, the thirteenth Teacher of Music, Commander and Conductor Emeritus of the USMA Band at West Point, passed away on Saturday, June 8 in Peekskill. He was 84. He was born in Milwaukee and earned a BM in clarinet from t
 SCHWEITZER-Jon Francis. Aged 44, of New York City, New York, succumbed to cancer on June 7, 2002. Jon lived his life to the fullest, and left this life with the grace and compassion that he demonstrated on a daily basis. In addition to immediate family in the Midwest, Jon leaves behind in N
 SOLMSSEN-Ulrich V., 92. Formerly of Essex Fells, NJ, died on Sunday, June 9, 2002 in Hightstown, NJ. Born in Berlin, Germany, in 1909, he attended MIT as an exchange student in 1932. After receiving his Ph.D in chemistry from the University of Zurich, he returned to the United States in 193
 SOLOMON - Holly. The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation expresses its deepest sympathy to the friends and family of Holly Solomon, a true pioneer in the visual arts who was an early supporter of Robert Mapplethorpe's works and who provided him with one of his earliest and most important exhibit
 SUDO-Philip. On June 9, 2002 age 42. Author of ''Zen Guitar'', ''Zen Computer'', ''Zen Sex'' and ''Zen 24/7''. Survived by his wife Tracy Buell, children Naomi, Keith and Jonathan, parents Sally (Onho) Sudo and the late Toshio Sudo, brothers Richard (Sheila) of Forest Lake, MN and Paul of T
 TIMM-Ralph F. Died on June 10, 2002, in Longboat Key, FL. He was 81 years old. Ralph Timm was with Conde Nast Publishing Co. for 35 years, as publisher of Glamour Magazine, House and Gardens, and was the advertising director of Conde Nast's European Group of Magazines. He was a graduate of 
 TURITZ-Zitha R. June 5, 2002, Berkeley, CA. Born Dorchester, MA, 1907. Mother, wife, social worker. Lived in Manhattan; Sunnyside, Queens; Tenafly, NJ; White Plains, NY. Graduated from Radcliffe College, 1928; Simmons School of Social Work, 1930. Worked at Child Welfare League of America, N
 WHITMAN-Allen E., III. Died on Wednesday, June 12, 2002, at home in Berwyn, PA. Born in New York City, New York, June 27, 1934. Husband of Tracy (Horter) Whitman. Father of Cynthia W. Lawes, Elizabeth W. Winder, Allen E. Whitman IV, and Eavenson S. Horter. Also survived by his brothers John
 ZILBERGELD - Bernard, Ph.D. Age 63, renowned psychologist, author, psychotherapist, died on June 12, 2002 at his home in Oakland, CA. due to diabetic complications. He leaves a daughter Claire, his partner Marilynne, a brother George, a sister Hannah, and Ian whom he considered his son. Don
 ZUCKERBROT-Irving. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its beloved member Dr. Rachel Zuckerbrot. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jeruselem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 WINTER-Benjamin. We We honor the memory of our beloved father, grandfather, great grandfather. His spirit lives on in three generations. June 16, 194       
 Gino Merli, who was awarded the Medal of Honor in World War II for operating a machine gun that blocked a German advance at a United States Army outpost in Belgium, died last Tuesday at his home in Peckville, Pa. He was 78. He had heart and kidney problems and Parkinson's disease, h
 Jack C. Montgomery, who won the Medal of Honor by storming three German positions in the Battle of Anzio in World War II, died on June 11 in Muskogee, Okla. He was 84. Two hours before dawn on Feb. 22, 1944, in pitched fighting near the small town of Padiglione, Italy, Lieutenant Mo
 Marion J. Levy Jr., a scholar of sociology and international affairs who wrote about modernization theory, which seeks to explain why some societies undergo rapid economic development and corresponding social change, died on May 26 in Princeton, N.J., where he lived. He was 83. The 
 CRIBBIN-Msgr. Thomas F. 85, Associate Executive Director, Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn, June 13, after a short illness. Son of the late Michael and Catherine Cribbin, he is survived by nieces and nephews, Katherine and Donald Barton, Patrick and Micheline St. John and Mary and St
 KASMIN-Allan. Age 73, of New York City, and Lake Ridge, CT, lost his courageous battle with lung cancer on June 15, 2002. Extremely devoted to his family and friends, who will miss him dearly. Highly respected lawyer, avid collector of clocks and antiques, history buff, world traveler, shar
 KURLANSKY-Philip Mendel, 86. Still a practicing dentist, husband of Roslyn for 60 years, died June 2. Always eager to help anyone in pain, or work for his community, his life, by example, taught the meaning of social responsibility. But the thing of it is this, I loved having a martini with
 PRYOR - William Young. Kane Lodge No. 454, F. & A. M. announces with profound sorrow the death of our dear brother, William Y. Pryor, D.S.A., on June 14, 2002. Uncle Bill, as he was affectionately known, was a 34 year member of the Lodge and a recipient of the Dedicated Service Award. A Mas
 RIEMER-Bill. Age 81. On June 15. A man who never stopped trying. Devoted to his late wife Babe, cherished by his daughter Hope Degel, grandsons Evan and Alan and lady friend Eve Cane. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to American Breast Cancer Association or American Diabetes As
 Robert Whitehead, the debonair and distinguished theatrical producer, who refused to let questions of economics take precedence over his artistic standards yet still managed to be a successful businessman, died Saturday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 86 and also had a home in Manha
 ALBERT-Herman. CEO and owner of Spectrum Fabrics, Inc., died Sunday, June 16, 2002, at Duke University Medical Center where he and his wife Ruth were benefactors. The Alberts, who live in Purchase, NY, and Palm Beach, Fla., became personally involved at Duke in 1998, when Ruth received trea
 COLLINS-Daniel Gerard. Suddenly on Sunday June 16th at age 72 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Anne Weld Collins, dear brother of Muriel Collins, devoted father of Caitlin Ahl, Deirdre, Charles and Geoffrey Collins. Loving step-father of Serena, Evelyn, Alexander and Blake Crawford
 ENGLANDER-Jesse. 77. Beloved brother of Rose and Stanley Rich, died on June 17, 2002. He was a 50-year resident of Westport, CT and the owner of Englander Associates, a residential real estate firm. He was a veteran of the Korean War and saw service there. He is survived by his favorite nep
 GERSHENOV - Albert. On June 17, 2002 of Larchmont. He was 84. Husband of Doris, (nee Yasgur) and father of Joseph Gershenov, Barbara Rubin and the late Gail Gershenov. He is also survived by a brother William and five grandchildren. Services today, (Tuesday) 10 a.m. at the Westchester Jewis
 LEWIS-R. W. B. We note with sadness the death of R. W. B. Lewis, advisor and friend of the Library of America since its beginnings over 20 years ago. Scholar, writer, and literary critic, Dick Lewis's immense knowledge and keen appreciation for American writing, his generosity of spirit, an
 MacLISE-Douglas L., 68, of West Redding, Connecticut, formerly of Guilford, Connecticut, died peacefully at home on June 13, 2002, after a long illness. A distinguished landscape designer whose presence lives on in the gardens he created, he will be deeply missed as artist and friend by all
 MARTIN-Esmond Bradley, a graduate of Princeton and Columbia University, and the grandson of Henry Phipps, the Pittsburgh steel magnate and partner of Andrew Carnegie, died peacefully on Sunday, June 16, at the age of 87 at his family estate of ''Knole'' in Old Westbury, New York. Esmond Mar
 McLOUGHLIN-James V. On June 17, 2002, of Hampton Bays, NY. Survived by his loving children James V., John E. and Elizabeth Doyle, all of Malverne, NY; also by his brothers Michael of Woodridge, CT, Francis of Babylon, NY, Thomas of Florida, Joseph and Gerard of Southampton, NY; and his sist
 MURPHY-John A. Philip Morris Companies, Inc. notes with sorrow the death of retired Philip Morris executive and director, John Murphy, who during his 30 year career played an enormous role in the growth and development of the company. Mr. Murphy served as a member of the Boards of Directors
 PRYOR-William Young. Of Essex Fells, NJ on June 14, 2002. Husband of the late Marianna (nee Brand). Devoted father of Ann Love Pryor of West Milford, NJ and William Brand Pryor and his wife Beverly of Caldwell, NJ. Loving grandfather of Morgan and William. Funeral service will be held in Da
 ROSEN-David. Beloved husband of Sarah, devoted father of Jack and Phillis, Joseph and Marilyn. Dear brother of Rose Blatman. Loving grandfather of Danielle, Jordan, Alison, Brian and Adam. Services Tuesday, 10 AM at Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67 St. ROSEN-David. The American Jewish
 TURITZ-Zitha R. June 5, 2002, Berkeley, CA. Born Dorchester, MA, 1907. Mother, wife, social worker. Lived in Manhattan; Sunnyside, Queens; Tenafly, NJ; White Plains, NY. Graduated from Radcliffe College, 1928; Simmons School of Social Work, 1930. Worked at Child Welfare League of America, N
 VISOTSKY-Harold M., M.D. A renowned psychiatrist and former Chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at Northwestern University Medical School. Beloved husband of Gladys (nee Mavrich). Loving father of Dr. Jeffrey (Lisa) and Robin L. Visotsky. Cherished grandfather of Zachary and Trevor. De
 WHITEHEAD-Robert. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend, Robert Whitehead. Bob was a true champion of the theatre who nurtured the greatest playwrights of the Twentieth Century. In addition to his innumerable gifts to the theatr
 SEAGRAVE-Kevin M. June 18, 1993. Sorely missed. Forever loved. His Family       
 WYSELL-Bertram Jay. Born May 23, 1920, died June 18, 2001. Think of him as living in the hearts of those he touched-for nothing loved is ever lost and he was loved so much. In our hearts forever. Your Loving Family.       
 R.R. Palmer, a historian through whose eyes generations of college students have learned to see modern history, died on June 11 at his home in Newtown, Pa. He was 93. This year, the ninth edition of Dr. Palmer's textbook, ''A History of the Modern World,'' was published, and overall
 Scott Shuger, an early Internet journalist who wrote the popular column ''Today's Papers'' for the online magazine Slate, died on Saturday while diving off the coast of California just south of Los Angeles. He was 50 and lived in Los Angeles. His body was found in the water a little
 Daniel G. Collins, a professor and labor arbitrator who had a key role in smoothing the way for the New York City contract with its teachers this month, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said Mary Kimble, his assistant. Dr. Collins hea
 J. Carter Brown, the eloquent, populist, patrician museum director who, as head of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, did as much as anyone to reshape art museums during the second half of the 20th century, died on Monday at a Boston hospital. He was 67. Mr. Brown, who under
 Jack Buck, whose nearly 50 years as the voice of the St. Louis Cardinals positioned him to describe the baseball exploits of Stan Musial and Mark McGwire and to work alongside his son, died yesterday. He was 77. Buck underwent lung cancer surgery Dec. 5, then had an intestinal block
 John A. Murphy, the president of the Miller Brewing Company at the time it began brewing different beers for different people, started advertising on sports broadcasts and introduced Miller Lite, died on Sunday at a hospital in his hometown of Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 72. He died of c
 COLLINS-Daniel Gerard. Suddenly on Sunday June 16th at age 72 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Anne Weld Collins, dear brother of Muriel Collins, devoted father of Caitlin Ahl, Deirdre, Charles and Geoffrey Collins. Loving step-father of Serena, Evelyn, Alexander and Blake Crawford
 DAYAN-Ezra. Of Delray Beach, FL, passed away June 18, 2002. Loving husband, father, grandfather and brother. Services Thursday, June 20, 1:00 PM at Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. For information: ''Gutterman's'', Woodbury, LI. DAYAN-Ezra. Delaire Country Club announces with 
 ENGLANDER-Jesse. 77. Beloved brother of Rose and Stanley Rich, died on June 17, 2002. He was a 50-year resident of Westport, CT and the owner of Englander Associates, a residential real estate firm. He was a veteran of the Korean War and saw service there. He is survived by his favorite nep
 FRANK-Philip. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Philip Frank. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 MIHALY-Dr. Eugene. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Eugene Mihaly, Deutsch Professor Emeritus of Jewish Jurisprudence and Socia
 MILLER - Robert M. Of Larchmont on June 9, 2002 at age 69 after a long illness. Survived by his wife Helaine, daughters Jennifer Miller (NYC) and Alicia (husband Scott) Talmadge (Rye Brook) granddaughters, Eliza and Larsen and a sister Linda. For more information Zion Memorial Chapel 914-38
 NOVAS-Joseph Jr. 80. Of Boca Raton, FL, died June 16, 2002. Joseph was born in Spain but came to the United States as a young boy and was raised in the NYC area. He graduated from Brown University and served as an officer in the Navy during WW II. His business career was dedicated to advert
 PRYOR-William Young. Of Essex Fells, NJ on June 14, 2002. Husband of the late Marianna (nee Brand). Devoted father of Ann Love Pryor of West Milford, NJ and William Brand Pryor and his wife Beverly of Caldwell, NJ. Loving grandfather of Morgan and William. Funeral service will be held in Da
 WHITEHEAD-Robert. The Officers and Board of Directors of the American Theatre Wing note with profound sorrow the passing of Robert Whitehead, a mentor and loyal supporter of the Wing and its activities. We will sadly miss this esteemed producer and distinguished member of the theatrical com
 Ralph Hunter, choral conductor and a former professor of music at Hunter College, died on June 3 in Grinnell, Iowa, where he lived. He was 81. Known for his passionate conducting of polychoral and spatially stereophonic music, Mr. Hunter also worked in radio and television and recor
 Willie Davenport, who won the 110-meter high hurdles at the 1968 Summer Olympics and also appeared in a Winter Olympics, competing as a bobsledder at Lake Placid in 1980, died Monday in Chicago. He was 59. Davenport had a heart attack at O'Hare International Airport, where he was ma
 Guilford Dudley Jr., a Tennessee insurance executive who was an ambassador to Denmark in the Nixon administration and a Nixon aide, died on Thursday at his home in Nashville. He was 94. Mr. Dudley, a Republican, was president of the Life and Casualty Insurance Company of Tennessee b
 Jack Buck, whose nearly 50 years as the voice of the St. Louis Cardinals' games positioned him to describe the baseball exploits of Stan Musial and Mark McGwire, and to call games with his son, died Tuesday in St. Louis. He was 77. Buck underwent lung cancer surgery Dec. 5, then had
 Leslie Midgley, a newspaperman who overcame his skepticism about television and became producer of 1,500 programs for CBS News, including coverage of the Kennedy assassination, its aftermath and the fall of Saigon, died yesterday in White Plains. He was 87. The cause was pneumonia, 
 BROWN - J. Carter. The American Academy in Rome mourns the loss of our beloved friend J. Carter Brown. One of the longest serving trustees in our 108-year history and holder of our Centennial Medal, Carter was famous for his appetites for art, history, boats, gadgets and Italian cuisine and
 CARRUS-Gerald. With great sorrow and heartfelt expressions of affection, we, The Center for Discovery Family, extend our hands in friendship and gratitude to Janet Carrus, and the entire Carrus family. The generosity and love of Gerry and Janet will forever live in the legacy they have prov
 COLLINS-Dan. The officers and members of the United Federation of Teachers mourn the loss of a brilliant and sensitive labor arbitrator. Labor and management have lost a valuable asset and a wise counselor. We were honored that his last major work was serving as chair of the state fact-find
 DIAMOND-Richard. Beloved husband of Alyce. Loving father of Roberta, Debra and Jeff. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Zachary and Margot. Dear son of Daniel and brother of Peter. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island, 9:30 A.M. Friday. DIAMOND - Rich
 GERSHENOV-Albert. The Board of Governors and Members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Albert Gershenov. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife, Doris, and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Paul Seide
 KINGSLEY-Harry. Beloved husband of Helen, loving father of Shelly and Gary, Jeffrey and Karen. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan, Daniel & Emma. Devoted brother, brother-in-law, uncle and friend. Services, ''BoulevardRiverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, L.I. 11:30 AM, Friday. May his soul b
 LEGUILLOU-Yves Corbel, 93. Of Forest Hills, Queens, died May 21, 2002. He is survived by his wife, Eleanor, three children, Peter, James and Eleanor Ingbretson, and three grandchildren. Burial was in Roudouallec Cemetery, Roudouallec, Brittany, France. There will be a memorial mass at Our L
 LEHMAN-Acy Rudy, 81. Of Peter Cooper Village, NYC, on June 15, 2002. He was born in New York City, September 18, 1920. A former Grammy winner, Acy was retired art director of RCA records. Beloved husband of the late Jocelyn, dear friend of Helen Roe, and Gordon Howard. Visitation Friday 2-5
 WHITEHEAD-Robert. The Stella Adler Studio of Acting is profoundly saddened by the loss of our dear friend Robert Whitehead. We will dedicate the coming school year to his memory. Ellen Adler Tom Oppenheim The Faculty and Students       
 Tom Mallow, a leading producer of Broadway's touring shows, died on June 6 at a medical center in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He was 71 and lived in Lighthouse Point, Fla. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Jan. Beginning in the early 1960's, Mr. 
 Dr. Bernie Zilbergeld, a psychologist whose widely read books helped debunk popular assumptions about male sexuality, died on June 12 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 62. The cause was complications from diabetes, said his daughter, Claire Zilbergeld. In his 1978 book '
 James Merriam Howard Jr., a leading advocate of using writing as a tool for helping improve performance and thinking in all areas of the curriculum, died on Tuesday at a hospital close to his home in Westport Point, Mass. He was 80. His 1983 book, ''Writing to Learn,'' became a wide
 BROWN-J. Carter. For 25 years, from 1977 to 2002, J. Carter Brown served as a trustee of Storm King Art Center, bringing his wise counsel and wide experience in the museum world and contributing greatly to recognition of Storm King as the preeminent outdoor sculpture park in the United Stat
 BUCKLEY-Dennis F. We mourn the passing of Dennis Buckley, who led North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset for nearly 20 years. With leadership, foresight and tenacity, Mr. Buckley directed North Shore through a period of tremendous growth and transformation. Mr. Buckley joined North Sh
 FALKINBURG-John Nelson. August 4, 1916-June 20, 2002. Graduated 1945 from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. Had 40 year career with Union Carbide Corporation, NY Headquarters. Resident of Lake Worth, FL, since retirement. Survived by his wife of 62 years, Florence Middleton Falkinburg, thr
 FORSTER-Irwin, DDS. Died on June 20, 2002 in White Plains, NY at the age of 88. He lived in Hartsdale and Lakeworth, Florida and was a former resident of White Plains and Brookfield, CT. Born in Brooklyn he was a graduate of NYU School of Dentistry. A Captain in the Army Air Force in WWII a
 GREENBAUM-Morris ''Sonny.'' Our Skipper, Pal, Teacher, the guy who made us all feel safe. Adoring husband of his precious beloved Lee, father of Robert and Noreen, Jay and Pam, Don and Heidi; grandfather of Jody and Russell, Lauren and Arthur, Jessica, Jaclyn, Lana, Ivy, Abigail, Cali; grea
 KOHLBERG-Harold J. Beloved husband of Lee. Devoted father of Judy, Leslie, Richard, Larry and Ellen. Cherished grandfather of many. Services today, 2 PM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I. KOHLBERG-Harold. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely pass
 LEHMAN-Acy Rudy, 81. Of Peter Cooper Village, NYC, on June 15, 2002. He was born in New York City, September 18, 1920. A former Grammy winner, Acy was retired art director of RCA records. Beloved husband of the late Jocelyn, dear friend of Helen Roe, and Gordon Howard. Visitation Friday 2-5
 McMILLAN-Hugh C. Of Bedford, NY died June 19. He is survived by his wife Daphne and children James, Andrew, Barbara, and Peter. He attended Taft School, Yale University and was president of Bulwark Corp. and chairman of the Dorr Foundation. Services will be held at St. Matthew's Church, Bed
 NELSON-John Harris, age 63, of Manchester-by-the-Sea, MA, died June 20th, 2002. Beloved father of Andrea Abbott and Trevor Nelson. Adoring grandfather of McLeod, Conrad, Lyric, and George. A graduate of St. Mark's School, Southborough, MA, and of Harvard College. He possessed a deep passion
 SCHIMEK-Dr. Jean. The Institute for Psychoanalytic Training & Research (IPTAR) mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Jean Schimek. A valued member of our Faculty and Board of Administrators, he served as Chair of Curriculum. He had also been a Professor at Downstate Medi
 SPIEGEL-William J. Of Delray Beach, FL, died at age 59 on June 19, 2002. Mr Spiegel formerly of Old Bethpage, NY where his family lived for many years succumbed to complications following surgery for cancer. A beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather, he had a long and successful ca
 THROOP-William M. Jr. (''Pete''). The partners, associates and staff of Davidson, Dawson & Clark, LLP mourn the death of our distinguished and much beloved former Sr Partner on June 20, 2002. He practiced law with this firm for over 50 years and for almost half of that time was our leader i
 WHITWELL-Joseph E. Jr., long time leader of General Cigar Co., dies at the age of 82. Born in St. Paul, MN, he was educated at Northwestern University. As a Captain in the Army Air Corps, Mr. Whitwell was awarded the ''Air Medal'' as squadron commander in the battle of Kasserine Pass. Joini
 ATWOOD-Gerald T. Tragically and heroically in the line of duty with his brothers of Ladder 21 at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Beloved son of Gerald and Elaine (nee Kenny). Loving husband of Barbara (nee Swat). Devoted father of Gerald J., Margaret M. and Robert T. Dear brot
 BUCKLEY-Dennis F. With vision and integrity he lived his life in the service of others. As CEO of North Shore University Hospital, he set standards of excellence stimulating others to aspire to higher goals. His two decade tenure of leadershipe allowed those who came later to achieve greatn
 O'DONNELL - Jerry. Was born into an Irish family of Ellis Island immigrants in the Murray Hill section of Manhattan. Growing up in the Depression he excelled at street stickball and made the AllCity basketball team at De La Salle High School. He graduated from Manhattan College and started 
 SHAPIRO-Murry. Of West Hartford, CT, husband of Evelyn ''Bobby'' Shapiro, died June 20, 2002. Retired Executive Director of the Greater Hartford Jewish Community Center. Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons and a grandson. For futher information contact Weinstein Mortuary, Hartford,
 THROOP-William M., Jr., ''Pete,'' on June 20, 2002 at home in New Canaan, CT, of cancer. Survived by his wife Ann, sons William of North Hebron, NY, Mitchell of Greenwich, NY, Peter of Keene, NH, and Thomas of Rowayton, CT, and granddaughters Laura and Susannah. A graduate of St. George's S
 von BERNUTH-Charles M. Of Lyford Cay, Bahamas, passed away on May 25, 2002, at the age of 89. Beloved husband of the late Eloise Fiamingo. He was educated in the U.S. and Switzerland, and joined the family business, Bernuth Lembcke Co of NY, creosote importers and a shipping company. During
 ALLEN-Marshall. Daddy, I miss & love you enormously. Your love has given me strength and courage in a world without you. Your generosity, intelligence and wit will never be forgotten. Schuyler ALLEN-Marshall B. In loving memory of Marshall B. Allen, for his friendship and wisdom. Ro
 Timothy Findley, the prolific Canadian author whose complex novels and intricately layered plays often probed the madness and immorality of the last century, died on Thursday in a hospital in the south of France. He was 71. Mr. Findley fractured his pelvis in a fall in early spring 
 Frank O. Spinney, who played a principal role in the formation of Old Sturbridge Village, the outdoor historical museum in Massachusetts, died on June 4 in a Medford, N.J., retirement community. He was 93. Mr. Spinney, a leader in professionalizing the field of outdoor history-museu
 ATWOOD-Gerald T. Tragically and heroically in the line of duty with his brothers of ladder 21 at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Beloved son of Gerald and Elaine (nee Kenny). Loving husband of Barbara (nee Swat). Devoted father of Gerald J., Margaret M. and Robert T. Dear brot
 CARRUS-Gerald. Died June 9, 2002, at the age of 76. Janet Carrus, the children and grandchildren of Gerald Carrus (Poppy) miss him dearly. We love him and he will always be close to our hearts. His death leaves us with an irreplaceable void. We are so proud of all of his accomplishments and
 DESSAUER-Walter L. June 16, 2002, of Pittsford, NY, age 95. Born in Frieburg, Germany, came to NYC in 1929, where he and Murray Rubenstein founded Chrysler Products, a women's and children's clothing firm. Later he joined his wife, the late Doris Dessauer, in her business specializing in Eu
 FLEIG-Otto J., 92, a longtime resident of Manhasset died peacefully at home after a long illness. A retired Naval Reserve Commander, his distinguished business career with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company spanned 44 years. At his retirement he was Senior Vice President and Treasurer. His
 GREENBAUM-Morris ''Sonny.'' Our Skipper, Pal, Teacher, the guy who made us all feel safe. Adoring husband of his precious beloved Lee, father of Robert and Noreen, Jay and Pam, Don and Heidi; grandfather of Jody and Russell, Lauren and Arthur, Jessica, Jaclyn, Lana, Ivy, Abigail, Cali; grea
 KEARNS-Joseph G. In his 91st year. On June 20, 2002 in Cooperstown, NY. Of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn and Breezy Point, Queens. Mr. Kearns was President of Daniel F. Young, Inc., International Freight Freight Forwarders. He was responsible for the safe transportation of Michael Angelo's ''Pieta St
 KOWAL-Howard. Passed away June 15th, 2002, in Boynton Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Joan, for 52 years, loving father of Andy, Dick and Valerie; and loving grandfather & brother. He is mourned by his many friends and family in Manhattan, Long Island and Florida, and colleagues from the
 MASON-Marcus D. At the age of 97, on June 6, 2002, in Fairfield, CT., predeceased by his dear wife, Dorothy, in l998, beloved father of Joan Blumenfeld of Westport, CT, and Dr. Richard P. Wedeen of Teaneck, NJ, loving grandfather of Karen, Eric, Laurie and Timothy, proud greatgrandfather of
 MINER - Thomas Matlack. Died June 12, 2002 in Sarasota, FL. He was born January 21, 1922 in New York City.       
 MURASE-Ichiro. With deep sorrow the family of Ichiro Murase notes his passing on June 4, 2002. His compassion, kindness and concern for all will be remembered. Ichiro was a computer consultant and held a Ph.D. in Economics from Columbia, a J.D. from New York Law School and a M.B.A from NYU.
 NAKAGAWA-August Tatsuro, A.I.C.P. Died June 20, 2002. Born in Tacoma, WA, educated at University of Chicago and Harvard University, he was Sr. Associate for planning at I.M. Pei & Partners until 1986. In 1992 he was employed as Planner with the Dept. of Transportation Westchester County, un
 NELSON-John Harris. Age 63, of Manchester-by-the-Sea, MA, died June 20th, 2002. Beloved father of Andrea Abbott and Trevor Nelson. Adoring grandfather of McLeod, Conrad, Lyric, and George. A graduate of St. Mark's School, Southborough, MA, and of Harvard College. He possessed a deep passion
 SCHONZEIT-David. We at Prudential Financial mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, David. David's tenture with the firm spanned nearly four decades, having served as a Financial Advisor, Branch Manager and in executive positions at both the regional and divisional levels. His care
 SENNISH-Robert. 78, Professor Emeritus of Humanities, SUNY/Maritime College, died at his home in Piermont, NY, June 5, 2002. He is survived by his wife Peggy Fox, his daughters Bronwen and Maggie Sennish, a son Alexandre DeWitt, a brother George Sennish, and a grandson Nicholas Albert. A me
 SLANE-Steve. Born in Norfolk, VA, died at age 86, on June 2, in Sarasota, FL. He was Founding Director of N.S. Music-Theatre in Beverly, MA, from 1955 until he retired in 1983. Survived by wife of 38 years Eva, and nephews, Leonard and Louis Schlain. Memorial services will be held in the fa
 THROOP-William M., Jr., ''Pete,'' on June 20, 2002 at home in New Canaan, CT, of cancer. Survived by his wife Ann, sons William of North Hebron, NY, Mitchell of Greenwich, NY, Peter of Keene, NH, and Thomas of Rowayton, CT, and granddaughters Laura and Susannah. A graduate of St. George's S
 von BERNUTH-Charles M. Of Lyford Cay, Bahamas, passed away on May 25, 2002, at the age of 89. Beloved husband of the late Eloise Fiamingo. He was educated in the U.S. and Switzerland, and joined the family business, Bernuth Lembcke Co of NY, creosote importers and a shipping company. During
 WILKENS-Samuel. Of Hollywood, FL, formerly of NY, June 20, 2002, at age 88. Cherished husband of Ruth. Beloved father of Judy Lev, Fred and Jaemes. Adored grandfather of Russell and Laurie Green, Corey and Joanne Lev, David and Lucia, Michael and Michelle, Marni and David Finkel, Adam and D
 Truck Parham, a Chicago bassist who became known throughout the country playing with some of the biggest names in jazz during seven decades and crossing stylistic boundaries, died on June 5 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 91. Although he came of age in the early days of jazz and 
 Darryl Kile, a veteran pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals who had one of the most effective curveballs in the major leagues, was found dead Saturday in a hotel room in Chicago, a day before he was supposed to pitch against the Cubs in a nationally televised game. He was 33. Dr. Edm
 Dr. Frank X. Ogasawara, a poultry expert whose advances in artificial insemination helped keep the fat and happy farm-raised turkey from going the way of the dodo, died on June 8 at a hospital in Davis, Calif. He was 88. Dr. Ogasawara, a longtime professor of avian and animal scienc
 Justin W. Dart Jr., a longtime advocate for the rights of disabled people who was a familiar sight around Washington in his cowboy hat, boots and wheelchair, died at his home here on Saturday. He was 71. He had been suffering from pneumonia and the aftereffects of the polio that too
 ATWOOD-Gerald T. Tragically and heroically in the line of duty with his brothers of ladder 21 at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Beloved son of Gerald and Elaine (nee Kenny). Loving husband of Barbara (nee Swat). Devoted father of Gerald J., Margaret M. and Robert T. Dear brot
 BERENSTEIN - Max. Of Ocean, NJ. 89. Died peacefully on Sabbath eve, June 21, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Frieda. Devoted father of Sarai and Harriet. Loving father-in-law to Terry and Dennis. Adoring ''Zayde'' to Rachel, Stefanie and Joey. Max was a Holocaust survivor. A kind, generou
 BROGAN-J. (John) Peter. Entered into eternal rest on Saturday, June 22, 2002. Mr. Brogan was President of Brogan Cadillac of Ridgewood for 50 years before retiring to his position of Chairman of the Board in 2001. Visiting hours will be held Tuesday, June 25, from 4 to 8 PM, at Feeney Funer
 BROWN-J. Carter. The Pritzker family and the trustees, jury and staff of The Hyatt Foundation mourn the loss of a dear friend who provided expert guidance as chairman of the Pritzker Architecture Prize jury since its inception in 1979. The prestige the prize has achieved must be credited in
 GOTTLIEB-Harold A. Cherished husband of 53 years to Pearl. Wonderful and generous father of Shelley and Gary. Beloved grandfather of Corey and Zoe. Loving father-in-law of Derri and Richard. Funeral services Monday, June 24, 12 noon, Riverside Nassau-North Chapels, 55 N. Station Plaza, Grea
 GREEN - Herman. Delaire Country Club mourns the loss of their esteemed member and past president Herman Green. His continuing staunch support for the betterment of Delaire will not be forgotten. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to his cherished wife Arona and his beloved children and grandchildr
 PALTROWITZ - M. Louis. Died in his 91st year of natural causes on June 23, 2002. He is survived by his beloved and cherished wife, Irene Paltrowitz (nee Berlin), of Elmira, NY, and Margate, FL, devoted sons and daughter, Dr. Irving Paltrowitz of Fort Lee, NJ, J. Lawrence Paltrowitz Esq. of 
 SPATZ-Milton. With deep sorrow, his wife Marion, his two children Larry & Elaine, and his four grandchildren record his death on June 21st.       
 von BERNUTH-Charles M. Of Lyford Cay, Bahamas, passed away on May 25, 2002, at the age of 89. Beloved husband of the late Eloise Fiamingo. He was educated in the U.S. and Switzerland, and joined the family business, Bernuth Lembcke Co of NY, creosote importers and a shipping company. During
 BROWN - J. Carter. The Board of Governors and staff of the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University deeply lament the death of Carter Brown, the third generation of his family to serve on the Library's Board, dating back to 1901, and a brilliant, dedicated, and irreplaceable contributo
 BURNHAM-I.W. II. June 24, 2002, age 93, died suddenly and peacefully at sea aboard his beloved Encore V, off the Virginia coast. Devoted husband of Lawrie Weil Burnham, who predeceased him in 1997. Adored father of Jon M. Burnham and Miriam Arnstein Burnham, and Wendy Burnham Morris and Mic
 D'AMATO-Hugo A. Formerly of Bronxville, NY recently residing Mohegan Lake, NY passed away on Sunday. Beloved husband of the late Julia D'Amato; father of John, Lorrie, and James; and grandfather of Daniel Ponte. He will be reposing at McGrath Funeral Home, 20 Cedar Street, Bronxville, NY on
 GOTTLIEB-Harold. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member Harold Gottlieb. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Toni Wiener, President       
 LEFFEL - Alfred. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member Alfred Leffel. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Toni Wiener, President       
 LYNTON-Julian E. On June 23, 2002, at age 85. Beloved husband of Joan L. Lynton. Dear brother of Harold S. Lynton (Hattie). Loving father of Jonathan Lynton and Vicki Sendelle (Rick), Judy Schwartz (Edward), Barbara Sargent (Peter) and William L. Strauss III (Randi). Cherished grandfather o
 NEUSTEIN-Abraham, Rabbi, Dr. Died June 23, 2002, age 89 after a distinguished career as the Head Rabbi of The Jewish Center of Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. He is survived by three children Josh, Frima and Amy and nine grandchildren. Services Tuesday 11AM at The Jewish Center of Brighton Beach,
 RAUCH-Eduardo. The JTS community mourns the death of Eduardo Rauch, who, since 1978 was a dedicated member of the faculty and administration. A deeply spiritual man of wide-ranging intellectual interests, charismatic classroom instructor and ethical role model, he taught for twenty-four yea
 SOLNIT-Albert J., M.D. The Officers and Directors of the Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund record with shock and dismay the sudden death of their close associate, colleague and good friend. Dr. Solnit, recently Commissioner of Mental Health of Connecticut, founder and builder of 
 STERN-Nathan, Judge. Village of Roslyn. The longest sitting Village Judge in the State of New York. Beloved husband of Thelma. Devoted father of Allan and Janet. Adored grandfather of Jessica, Andrew & Brian. Services are today 10 A.M. at Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern Boulevard, Manhasset. 
 POST-Sheldon. 9/5/36 to 6/25/88. Founder Chelsea Pines Inn, Chairman NYC Gay Men's Chorus, Board, Congregation Beth Simchat Torah. Fourteen years gone: a moment, a lifetime. As we celebrate Gay Pride Week, we pause to recall those who have gone before us in the still-present war against AID
 Dr. Harold M. Visotsky, a psychiatrist who revamped the Illinois mental health system, creating a model that was adopted in much of the nation, died on June 16 in Park Ridge, Ill. A resident of Evanston, he was 78. The cause was bone marrow cancer, his wife, Gladys, said. In
 Henry J. Latham, who represented Queens in Congress for 14 years and was a New York State judge for two decades, died on Wednesday at his home in Southold, N.Y. He was 93 and had lived in the Queens Village section of Queens. A conservative Republican with a strong anticommunist sta
 BERNSTEIN-Sumner Thurman. Bernstein, Shur, Sawyer & Nelson (Portland, Maine) acknowledges with great sadness the death of our extraordinary founding partner, Sumner Thurman Bernstein. He was a towering presence in the firm and in the community. He represented ''Kings'', he represented ordin
 BURNHAM-I.W. II. June 24, 2002, age 93, died suddenly and peacefully at sea aboard his beloved Encore V, off the Virginia coast. Devoted husband of Lawrie Weil Burnham, who predeceased him in 1997. Adored father of Jon M. Burnham and Miriam Arnstein Burnham, and Wendy Burnham Morris and Mic
 DEUTSCH-Richard E. 0n June 13, at age 85, on Nantucket Island where he lived. He is survived by a large family, by his wife Susan, his children David Deutsch of Washington D.C., Judith Deutsch of Zionsville, Indiana, R. Woodruff Deutsch of Dechard, TN, three stepchildren: Anthony Lowenstein
 DRAKE-Frederick Charles II. Was born in Taft, CA on January 28, 1958. In 1993 he founded the Rancho de la Luna recording studio in Joshua Tree, CA. A resident of Houston for many years, Fred is survived by his beloved mother and father, Josephine and Charles, his sisters Melanie and Deidre,
 FELDER - Samuel. The Board of Directors, members and staff of The League for the Hard of Hearing mourn the loss of Samuel Felder, father of Barry Felder, Esq., Executive Vice President of our Board of Directors. We extend our sympathy to his wife, Evelyn, and to his entire family. Joseph R.
 FERENCZ-Zoltan. Died at the age of 96 at his home in Southbury, Connecticut on June 24. Born in Maramarossziget, Hungary, he emigrated to the United States in 1928. He trained as a clothing designer in Vienna and owned a custom tailoring business in midtown Manhattan from 1930 until his ret
 GOLDFRANK-Thomas, 85, after a brief illness, June 18, 2002. Loving and beloved father of Edward and daughters-in-law Janice Goldfrank and Victoria Ettlinger; grandfather of Nicholas. Predeceased by wife Emma Pearlin, son Frederick and three siblings. He was an MIT graduate and Licensed Prof
 LORBERBAUM-Bobby. Beloved husband of Lynn. Loving father of Mark and Jamie, Lisa, and Andrew and Gail. Proud Papa of Scott, Matt, Brandon and Tyler. Dear brother of Donald and Leah and Helene. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett L.I., 11:30AM, Wednesday. LORBERB
 LYNTON-Julian E. On June 23, 2002, at age 85. Beloved husband of Joan L. Lynton. Dear brother of Harold S. Lynton (Hattie). Loving father of Jonathan Lynton and Vicki Sendelle (Rick), Judy Schwartz (Edward), Barbara Sargent (Peter) and William L. Strauss III (Randi). Cherished grandfather o
 MERSFELDER-Lester A. Of Basking Ridge, N.J. Died June 24, 2002 at age 94. Former engineer and an active community citizen. He is survived by wife Marguerite, son Jim, daughter Nancy, six grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Memorial service Friday, June 28th, 1PM at Fellowship Villa
 PATERNO-George Eugene. Of Southampton, NY, died of heart failure in State College, PA, on June 23. Survived by his brother Joseph V. Paterno of State College, PA, and a sister, Florence (Cissy) Mittleman of Locust Valley, NY. Memorial service will be held today at the Memorial Chapel of the
 SOLNIT-Albert J., M.D. The Officers and Directors of the Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund record with shock and dismay the sudden death of their close associate, colleague and good friend. Dr. Solnit, recently Commissioner of Mental Health of Connecticut, founder and builder of 
 WILSON-Francis C. (Tug), 62, in Denver, on June 17, 2002. Resident of Santa Fe, NM and Denver, CO. Capt. U.S. Air Force, Past President, Wilson Oil Co., and General Partner, Wilson Oil Co., Ltd. Graduate of St. Paul School and Stanford University. Past Chairman of the Republican Party of Sa
 Samuel Rabinove, who as legal director of the American Jewish Committee for more than 30 years was a prominent advocate of strict church-state separation, died on June 9 in White Plains. He was 79 and lived in White Plains. The cause was complications after suffering pneumonia, his 
 Dr. Albert J. Solnit, a psychiatrist who helped introduce the idea that family law and custody disputes should focus on a child's needs, died on Friday in a car accident in Bethlehem, Conn. He was 82. Dr. Solnit was best known for writing a trilogy of books on family law with Anna F
 John D. Wirth, a scholar and historian of Latin American affairs with an interest in Canada, died on Thursday night in Toronto. He was 66 and lived in Atherton, Calif., and Santa Fe, N.M. The cause was a heart aneurysm he suffered while addressing the Friends of Fort York, a Canadia
 BURNHAM-I.W. II. June 24, 2002, age 93, died suddenly and peacefully at sea aboard his beloved Encore V, off the Virginia coast. Devoted husband of Lawrie Weil Burnham, who predeceased him in 1997. Adored father of Jon M. Burnham and Miriam Arnstein Burnham, and Wendy Burnham Morris and Mic
 DEUTSCH-Dr. Martin. At the age of 76, on June 26, 2002 in Norwalk, CT. Beloved husband of Dr. Cynthia Deutsch of Weston, CT, father of Benjamin Deutsch and his wife Wendy Gerstmann of Maplewood, NJ, Jonah Deutsch of Spring Valley, NY, grandfather of Alexandra, brother of Dr. Stanley Deutsch
 KULLMANN-Eugen, 87. Died on June 24th, 2002 in Mount Vernon, Ohio. He was preceded in death by his father Moritz and mother Fanny (Siegel, and sister Anneliese Kaboolian. Beloved teacher, he is deeply mourned by his former students from Kenyon College as well as those who studied with him a
 MAAS-Herbert. June 26, 2002 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Vera, loving father of Susan and Frank, devoted grandfather of Jonathan, Todd, Edward and Arthur, uncle of Francis. Funeral service Friday, June 28, at 10:30 AM at Cedar Park BethEl Cemetery, Paramus, N.J. Contributions in his
 RAUCH-Eduardo. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Eduardo Rauch. Compassionate lover of nature and humanity, activist, peace-loving Zionist, scholar, teacher, intellectual, poetic soul, truthteller, Edy was an irreplaceable treasure. Love and condolences to his wife Chicky, his father Nat
 SOBELMAN-Aaron. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its long standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife, Marilyn, and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Roselyn Kolodny, Pres.       
 STEIN-Philip. Beloved husband of Doris for fifty-three years, caring father of Aileen and Mitch, cherished grandfather of Julie and Laura, loving father-in-law of Allan and Barbara, devoted brother of Shirley, died on June 26, 2002. He will remain in our hearts forever and will be missed im
 THROOP-William M., Jr., ''Pete,'' on June 20, 2002 at home in New Canaan, CT, of cancer. Survived by his wife Ann, sons William of North Hebron, NY, Mitchell of Greenwich, NY, Peter of Keene, NH, and Thomas of Rowayton, CT, and granddaughters Laura and Susannah. A graduate of St. George's S
 WESTERMAN-John. Age 66, died of natural causes on June 25, 2002. He is survived by his beloved mother Estelle Westerman and loving sister Natalie Krantz. Services will be private.       
 Jay Berwanger, who in 1935 became the first winner of the Heisman Trophy as the outstanding player in college football and then became the first player ever drafted by the National Football League, died Wednesday at his home in Oak Brook, Ill. He was 88. In an era when the Universit
 John Alec Entwistle, the bass player for the Who, died yesterday in Las Vegas, where the Who was preparing to start a United States tour today. Mr. Entwistle was 57. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, said Bob Leinbach, a spokesman for the Clark County Fire Department. An emer
 BLANKS-Lloyd Walton, 80. January 3, 1922-June 21, 2002. A college administrator and artist, his works in wool have been exhibited in museums and galleries in the United States and throughout the world. Survived by sisters Meldean and Verlyn (Grady Trantham) and devoted nieces and nephews. H
 CHARGAFF-Erwin. The faculty, students and staff of Columbia University mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, teacher and friend Erwin Chargaff. Dr. Chargaff joined the faculty of Columbia University in 1935 and was named professor of biochemistry in 1952. He was a central figure in the 
 COHN-George M., 1926-2002. Died peacefully at home in Delray Beach, Florida on June 25 following a long, courageous battle with Parkinson's Disease. An innovative and inspiring educator, founding chairman of the English Department at John Bowne High School, Flushing, New York, he leaves his
 DiFEDE-Joseph, 92. Died June 26. Retired Justice of the Supreme Court. He was a NYS Assemblyman, received the Medal of Freedom for Services in WW II. Chairman of NYS Labor Relations Board, Professor of Law for 23 years, Former Pres. of Bronx Co. & NYS Bar Assoc. He was respected by all who 
 EDELMAN-Dr. Morton H. Of NYC, June 27, 2002, at age 88. Cherished husband of the late Hilda Rachel Wyner Edelman. Beloved father of Diana E. E. Kleiner, Robert G. Edelman, and Nancy Salzman. Adored grandfather of Alex Kleiner and Daniel Salzman. Dear brother of Albert Edelman and Daniel J. 
 FENTON-Thomas L. Marketing entrepreneur dies at 61. A co-founder of Synchronal Inc., one of the earliest major successes in the infomercial industry, died at his home in Easton, Connecticut on Saturday, June 22, 2002 after a long struggle with cancer. Mr. Fenton began his career in advertis
 KULLMANN-Eugen, 87. Died on June 24th, 2002 in Mount Vernon, Ohio. He was preceded in death by his father Moritz and mother Fanny (Siegel), and sister Anneliese Kaboolian. Beloved teacher, he is deeply mourned by his former students from Kenyon College as well as those who studied with him 
 LESSER-David. Age 92. Died June 22, 2002. Husband of Tillie Lesser, father of Beatrice Martin and Jonathan, fatherin-law of Joan and Nancy, grandfather of Eric, Rebecca, Julia and Cassandra. USN World War II Veteran, worked as a tool and die maker. He was devoted to his family, lover of nat
 MAAS-Herbert. June 26, 2002 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Vera, loving father of Susan and Frank, devoted grandfather of Jonathan, Todd, Edward and Arthur, uncle of Francis. Funeral service Friday, June 28, at 10:30 AM at Cedar Park BethEl Cemetery, Paramus, N.J. Contributions in his
 MORAN-Frank R., 84. On June 27, 2002, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ. Beloved husband of Joan and loving father of Joan Trout, Frank Jr., Douglas, Marybeth Wooters, Paul, and Thomas. Adoring grandfather of 15. Born in Brooklyn, NY, loyal Alumnus of Fordham University, most 
 NAUGHTON - Dennis J. (''Uncle Dennis''). Son of the late John and May Naughton. Beloved brother of Dr. Rose Ann Naughton and John F. Naughton. Uncle of Helena Henderson and grand-uncle to Bill and Kevin Henderson. Cousin of Chris Tighe and Edward Higgins. Dennis, an Iona College graduate, w
 STEIN-Philip. Beloved husband of Doris for fifty-three years, caring father of Aileen and Mitch, cherished grandfather of Julie and Laura, loving father-in-law of Allan and Barbara, devoted brother of Shirley, died on June 26, 2002. He will remain in our hearts forever and will be missed im
 WHITMAN-The Honorable Charles S., Jr. The Board of Managers and the members of the St. Nicholas Society of the City of New York records with sorrow the death of their member and Past President, the Honorable Charles S. Whitman, Jr. We extend condolences to his wife Janet and their children.
 Gen. Choi Hong Hi, widely acknowledged as the founder of tae kwon do, a martial art that began in Korea and spread rapidly to community centers and storefronts around the United States, died on June 15 in Pyongyang, North Korea. He was 83 and lived in Mississauga, Ontario, a suburb of Toron
 Daniel H. Case III, an investment banker who helped take public many of the highest-flying technology companies in the 1980's and 1990's, died Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 44. The cause was brain cancer, said David Golden, head of J. P. Morgan West Coast Investment
 I. W. Burnham II, a financier whose surname has been on the front door of a Wall Street firm virtually since the depths of the Depression, died on Monday after boating near Norfolk, Va. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said a granddaughter, Debra Burnh
 EAKER-Ira. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Ira Eaker on June 26th. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Sunday, June 30th, 2PM, Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, Delray Beach, FL. 5
 KAPLAN-Simon (Sy). Of Baldwin, NY and Boca Raton, FL, died on June 27th, 2002. Devoted husband of Carol. Loving father of Andrew and Sara, Evan and Pat, Mitchell and Andrea. Adored by his six grandchildren, Ashley, David, Jake, Paige, Brooke and Stephanie. Beloved uncle. Services at Gutterm
 Erwin Chargaff, whose research into the chemical composition of DNA helped lay the groundwork for James Watson and Francis Crick's discovery of its double-helix structure -- the pivotal finding of 20th-century biology -- died on June 20 in a New York hospital. He was 96. As a bioche
 GILBERT - Louis Brandeis. 75, June 28, 2002. Beloved grandson of Alice and Louis D. Brandeis. Devoted son of Susan and Jacob Gilbert. Dear brother of Alice Popkin and Frank Gilbert. Proud uncle of his nieces, Louisa Popkin and Anne Popkin and Susan Cahn, and his greatniece, Allison Cahn. Se
 GOLDSTEIN-Frank. 89, retired New York City high school principal, June 16, 2002, of Northampton, MA and Lake Worth, FL. Beloved husband to the late Ada (Schwartz). He is survived by three children, Marshall, Lenore and Carolyn, six grandchildren and a brother, Irving. Forever in our hearts.
 KEARNS-Joseph G. All of us at Lutheran Medical Center mourn the loss of our trusted friend and generous supporter, Joseph G. Kearns. Joe served on our Board of Trustees for over 30 years, including over two decades as Vice Chairman. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Agnes, and hi
 KULLMANN-Eugen, 87. Died on June 24th, 2002 in Mount Vernon, Ohio. He was preceded in death by his father Moritz and mother Fanny (Siegel), and sister Anneliese Kaboolian. Beloved teacher, he is deeply mourned by his former students from Kenyon College as well as those who studied with him 
 McCARTHY-Dr. V.O. 74, died on June 25, 2002. Born in St. Margaret's Bay, Parish of Portland, Jamaica, he studied in Jamaica and Manchester, England, and later received his doctorate in Audiology from Columbia University. After serving as headmaster at St. Christopher's School for the Deaf i
 NEWMAN-William H. Lifelong business educator, influential author, and the last surviving founder of the Academy of Management, died May 31, 2002. He was 92. Dr. Newman was the first Samuel Bronfman Professor of Democratic Business Enterprise at Columbia University, the chair endowed during 
 SOLNIT-Albert J. The Western New England Psychoanalytic Institute and Society deeply mourn the death of our beloved colleague, Albert J. Solnit, M.D., visionary child psychoanalyst, child psychiatrist, compassionate physician; editor of ''The Psychoanalytic Study of the Child''; and Directo
 WHALEN-Philip. Respected ''Beat'' poet, Zen Buddhist monk, abbot, teacher, original thinker and key figure in the literary canon of the second half of the twentieth century, died June 26th in San Francisco at the age of 78. Whalen hailed from Portland, Oregon, born October 20th, 1923. He wa
 WLECKE-Albert O. Colleagues at the University of California, Irvine, mourn the sudden death at age 66 of Professor Emeritus Albert O. Wlecke, a founding member of the English department. Educated at St. Peter's College, Johns Hopkins University, and Michigan State University, Professor Wlec
 WEINTRAUB-Samuel. June 30, 2000. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, greatgrandfather. Missed and remembered by his family. Jane, Jerry, Linda & Dougla       
