 Baron Bernd Freytag von Loringhoven, who as a young German Army officer was one of the last to flee Hitler's Berlin bunker as Soviet troops closed in, died on Feb. 27 in Munich. He was 93. Wolf Jobst Siedler Jr., the German publisher of Baron von Loringhoven's memoirs, confirmed the
 BENNETT--Sidney. Retired president of Lillie Rubin North passed away Friday, March 30, 2007 after a brief illness. He is survived by his beloved wife, Shirley Bennett; sons Bruce and Steven and grandchildren. Funeral will be held Monday, April 2, at 11 am at the Knollwood Park Cemetery, Rid
 BRONSTEIN--Burke, 98, on March 22, 2007, in Tamarac, FL. He leaves his beloved family including his wife Sylvie; his daughters Judith and Phyllis Bronstein, and son-inlaw Robert Rossel; his grandchildren Sharon, Steven, Andrew, Irene, David, Keith, Robin, Geoffrey, Elise, and Jolie, and the
 BUTTERLY--John, 90, a retired NYC Fire Lieutenant, Hook and Ladder Company 105, died Monday, March 29th at his home in Brick, NJ. A veteran of WWII he served in the Eighth Air Force from 1942 -1945. He is survived by his wife of 67 years Marcella, five children, five grandchildren, and five
 CAPLAN--Joseph H. On March 31, 2007 at the age of 82. Beloved husband of Beverley, loving father of Sue, and Sandy and his wife Lea. Cherished grandfather of Evan and Seth, and dear brother of Leonard. Funeral service Sunday, April 1, 1:30 pm at ''Temple Beth El'', 5 Old Mill Road, Great Ne
 CHAYKIN--Irving, born August 16, 1912 to David and Dora Chaykin, accomplished a great many things in his 94 years. Some of his proudest achievements include a tremendous career in Accountancy education at City College, his alma mater, where he was continually voted by the Student Body as mo
 CLARKE--Thatcher, April 1, 1937-March 8, 2007, died in NYC where his career as a Ballet Dancer began: Broadway shows, original ''My Fair Lady'', movie ''Carousel'', Fonteyn/Nureyev World Tour, Ballet de Cuba, American Ballet, San Francisco Ballet, Thatcher's Theatre.       
 FARLEY--James Parker, CT, died peacefully on March 29. Born in Newark, NJ on September 16, 1924, Jim leaves his beloved wife of 56 years, Irene, and their four children: James and wife Petra and children Devin, Colin and Carling of London; Catherine and son-in-law David Elkind and son Danie
 FEDERBUSH--Herbert, 91, of 5581 Glen Abby Ct., Delray Beach, FL. March 30, 2007. Beloved husband of Norma, devoted father of Judy and David, brother of Harold. His benevolence and irrepressible sense of humor will be missed by family, friends, and all who knew him. Graduate of NYU, Levittow
 GINSBURG--Dr. Henry David, died March 29, 2007 at the age of 66 in New York City of complications following an aortic dissection. He is survived by his brother Carl Ginsburg of Bad Soden, Germany, and his sister Deborah Ramsden of Woodstock, NY. Son of the late Benjamin and Cora Ginsburg, H
 GOLDSTEIN--Charles. Be loved husband of the late Adelaide. Devoted father of Leslie (Franklin) Abrams and Dr. Scott (Nadine) Goldstein. Cherished grandfather of Courtney, Jason, Ross, and Spencer. Loving brother of Mildred Kaminsky, and Jack Goldstein. He was an inspiration to us all and wi
 GORDON--Monte J., formerly of NYC, and of Henderson, NV, on Friday, March 30, 2007 at age 83. A retired Research Director of Financial Securities and a U.S. Air Force WWII veteran. Funeral services are pending in San Diego, CA. Survivors include his wife, Arline Gordon of Henderson, NV, his
 HEIM--Richard M. President of Richard M. Heim Advertising, died on March 26th, at the age of 81, and worked until the last day of his life. Richard lived a full and vibrant personal and professional life and was loved by all who knew him for his kindness and generosity. He served in the U.S
 KAPLAN--Arnold. The officers and staff of Rosen & Company Inc. are saddened by the passing of our associate and friend Arnold Kaplan. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Susan and children Michael and Lisa. David B. Rosen, Chairman Stephen B. Rosen, President $(6$)KAPLAN--
 KIRKNER--Curtis Bane, 76, died March 28, 2007. Curtis was born on Friday the 13th, 1930, an omen he laughingly felt was significant. He grew up in Salisbury, NC and graduated from Catawba College in 1953. He was an English major who immersed himself in the written word and particularly love
 KREIPKE--Sven A. Former President of Lummus, Sven A. Kreipke, 80, of Boca Raton, FL and Franklin Lakes, NJ passed away on March 30, 2007. Sven was the much beloved husband of Jytte, father of Per, Anette and Niels, father-in-law of Adrienne, Srdjan and Cheryl, and proud grandfather of six. 
 LEVINE--Barry J. Myron and Barbara Nelkin and family mourn the loss of Mr. Levine, who passed away on March 21, 2007. He waged a gallant fight with cancer, but he was taken much too soon, at the age of 61. For many years he was attorney for the Garden City Hotel and our family attorney as w
 MARCUS--Robert Allan, 72, died on March 17, 2007 in NYC. He was the son of James L. Marcus and the late Sophia Marcus, and the stepson of Helen Marcus. He is survived also by his brother and sister-in-law, Donald M. and Marianne T. Marcus, nieces Laura R. Marcus and Susan Marcus Mendoza (Jo
 SATZ--Marvin ''Buddy''. We will deeply miss our cherished friend. 55 years of shared laughs and wonderful times. Hit well up there. Love, Joan and Al $(6$)SATZ--Marvin (Bud). The Officers, Board of Governors and member of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Hon
 TRENT--Bertram. We are saddened bythe loss of our dear friend, Bert Trent. Our hearts go out to Geraldine his adoring wife of 60 years and to his devoted sons Bruce and Dr. Michael. Margee and Mort       
 WEITZNER--Daniel, M.D., 78. Dearly beloved husband of Tilly for 51 wonderful years, deeply devoted father of Naomi, Robert and Rebecca, father-in-law of Cliff Hart, and adoring grandfather (Bumpy) of Jake and Alex Hart. Died surrounded by his loving family on March 29th, but will continue t
 WHITNEY--George Quintard, artist and architect, July 1, 1938, to March 18, 2007. Remember him with a smile.       
 HENNINGSEN--Victor W., Jr. The Yale Club of NYC mourns the death of Victor W. Henningsen, Jr., Club President from 1966-1968. Our sincerest condolences to his wife and surviving family members.       
 TRACHTENBERG--Elaine (Boriskin), of Riverdale, beloved wife of Jack Trachtenberg (deceased). Daughter of Clara and Hyman, and sister of Rose Atlas. Devoted mother of Ira Weintraub and Anne McGuire of Weymouth, MA. Loving grandmother of Johanna and Kathryn Weintraub. Survived by niece Bonnie
 ZUCKERMAN--Matthew. We mourn the loss of a strong and gentle father, brother, grandfather and great-grandfather who served as a role model to his family. Beloved husband of the late Cookie and together with Ruth and Irwin Shapiro, Benefactors of the Hospital, Matt will be sorely missed. May
 Abe Coleman, a squat powerhouse of a professional wrestler, billed by promoters as the Hebrew Hercules and known to opponents by the two-footed kick he copied from kangaroos, died Wednesday in New York. He was 101, probably making him the oldest professional wrestler, according to wrestling
 GORDON--Monte J., formerly of NYC, and of Henderson, NV, on Friday, March 30, 2007 at age 83. A retired Research Director of Financial Securities and a U.S. Air Force WWII veteran. Funeral services are pending in San Diego, CA. Survivors include his wife of 61 years, Arline Gordon, devoted 
 WILSON--John E. on April 1, 2007 of Manhasset. Beloved husband of Cathleen. Loving father of Jennifer and John, John and Pam, Patricia, Ryan and Shannon. Cherished grandfather of eight. Brother of Jimmy and Min. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, Tues
 Paul J. Cohen, a versatile mathematician whose path-breaking work in the field of logic helped resolve a fundamental question of mathematics and won for him the prestigious Fields Medal, died of a lung disease on March 23 in Stanford, Calif. He was 72. Dr. Cohen's death was confirme
 Kenneth I. Greisen, a physicist who helped broaden methods of studying cosmic rays, including sending unmanned balloons into the upper atmosphere and planting detection devices in salt mines, died on March 17 in Ithaca, N.Y., where he was a former dean at Cornell University. He was 89.     
 ABELSON--Sanford. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Sanford Abelson. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Howard F. Sharfstein, President $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. Gramps, thanks for all the lov
 COTTERILL--Charles. After a long courageous battle with cancer, passed away peacefully at home on February 9th, 2007. Born in England, there he earned degrees in Geology and Engineering. In 1960 he came to New York City and earned advanced degrees from Columbia in Mathematics and NYU in fin
 ENGEL--Walter F., 51, of Englewood, NJ, on Palm Sunday, April 1, 2007, after living a beautiful life full of love and music. Beloved son of Lucia and Herbert. Adored brother of Richard, William, Frank, Herbert Jr., Lucie, Mary, Elizabeth and Hans. Former husband of Jill Sagarin. Cherished u
 HEWETT--W. Walter, III, 70, passed away on March 22, 2007 after complications from surgery. A life-long resident of Augusta, GA and Manhattan, he was the son of the late Nell Pope Hewett and William Walter Hewett Sr. A graduate of Georgetown University, Mr. Hewett was cofounder of MELTAWAY,
 LOWENDAHL--Walter, April 1, 2007, film producer, age 87. Survived by his wife Nancy, stepchildren Jennifer and Robert, his daughters Anne and Fritzie, and granddaughters Audrey, Laura, and Gabriela. He will be lovingly remembered and missed by all. A gathering of friends will take place at 
 NOALL--Roger, of New York City and Naples, FL, died suddenly on March 29, 2007, in Naples at the age of 71. He was born on April 1, 1935, to the late Albert Edward Noall and Mabel Sorenson Noall in Brigham City, UT. He graduated from the University of Utah in 1955 in two years with Honors. 
 PRAGER--Louis I. The Officers, Trustees, and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their long-time friend and member, Louis Prager. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Harvey L. York, President Robert Fagenson, Secretary       
 SATZ--Marvin. Pals since First Grade. Smart and Witty, he will be sorely missed. Larry and Helene       
 SHEEHAN--Philip T. (Skip), 76, on March 31. Born August 31, 1930, Skip, a graduate of Brooklyn Prep and Manhattan College, spent his career in banking, starting with the Irving Trust Company in 1956. Skip's sense of humor and easy laughter enlivened many family gatherings, where he loved to
 VARDY--Dr. Moshe. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President       
 WEISER--Joel, passed away on March 31st, 2007. Predeceased by his beloved son and our brother, Gary. He is survived by his beloved wife Muriel, his son Bernard, daughter Gertrude, grandchildren David, Sheri, Laurie, and Cindy, and his greatgranddaughters Lauren and Rachel. He will be missed
 WILSON--John E. The Board of Governors and Membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of one our most popular and esteemed members and fellow Board member. He enriched our lives with his warmth, humor, talent, generosity, elegance and intelligence. Our deepest sy
 ZIEMAN--Isaac. The community of West End Synagogue, a Reconstructionist Congregation, mourns the loss of this extraordinary man. He will always remain our finest exemplar of survival, with competence, compassion and humor intact. Our love to his family, especially his wife Ingeborg, whom we
 Thomas Rogers, a novelist whose wryly comic books chart the rocky landscape where youthful alienation -- and youthful ardor -- meet straight-backed WASP propriety, died on Sunday in State College, Pa. He was 79 and had lived in State College for many years. Mr. Rogers died after a o
 John Billings, an Australian physician who more than half a century ago developed a natural contraception method endorsed by the Roman Catholic Church, died Sunday in Melbourne. He was 89 and a lifelong Melbourne resident. The death was announced on the Web site of Woomb Internation
 Neil Shine, a former publisher and editor of The Detroit Free Press who played important roles as the newspaper won major awards and later as it weathered the industry's longest strike, died yesterday near Detroit. He was 76. The cause was respiratory failure, the newspaper announce
 ABELSON--Sandy. A true gentleman to the very end, your support and friendship will never be forgotten. The Goldworm Family $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. Heartfelt sympathy to Fran, Jenny, Ken, Michael, and Zoe. Sandy, rest in peace. Helene, Larry, Joanne and Michael $(6$)ABELSON--Sanford. Gumley H
 ANFANG--Edward, of Boca Raton, FL, passed away at home on March 31, 2007. Born in NYC on March 13, 1919, Mr. Anfang supported his widowed mother, Ruth, and late sisters, Sylvia and Esther, by apprenticing in the printing trade. He was graduated from Morris High School in the Bronx, and atte
 BLATTNER--Alvin Robert ''Bob'', died peacefully on March 30, 2007, at age 84. Bob was born in Cairo, Egypt, son of Robert and Marguerite Blattner (nee Bialobos). His dry humor, sharp observational powers, and unique sense of satire and wit made him a self appointed commentator on the human 
 GERBEN--Mac. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Mac Gerben. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Joan, and their family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 GIBBONS--James E. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of James E. Gibbons, a life member of the society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith, IV, President Brian G. Andersson, Historian      
 GOLDMAN--Eugene. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrowthe passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Eugene Goldman; and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Marion and their family. Robert M.
 MILLER--Jonathan Samuel, age 27, April 3, 2007. Beloved son of Steven and Faith Miller, will be greatly missed by his family and friends. Memorial service to be announced. $(6$)MILLER--Jonathan. A good friend and colleague taken from us too soon. He will be greatly missed by all who knew hi
 OUTCALT--F. John, on April 2, 2007. Beloved partner of Andrew Rosenthal, loving son of James Scott and the late Margaret Scott, devoted brother of Michael, Wanda, Bryant and Todd. Friends may call on Thursday, April 5, 2-5 pm and 7-9 pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street
 SIMON--David O., 51, of Chappaqua, NY, on April 3rd, 2007. Loving husband of Judy, devoted father to Molly and Henry. Also survived by his mother Faye and sister Amy. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, April 5th, 2:30 pm at King David Chapel, McElroy - Flynn Funeral Home, 72 East Ma
 WEISER--Joel, passed away on March 31st, 2007. Predeceased by his beloved son and our brother, Gary. He is survived by his beloved wife Muriel, his son Bernard, daughter Gertrude, grandchildren David, Sheri, Laurie, and Cindy, and his greatgranddaughters Lauren and Rachel. He will be missed
 WILSON--John E. The Board of Governors and Membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of one our most popular and esteemed members and fellow Board member. He enriched our lives with his warmth, humor, talent, generosity, elegance and intelligence. Our deepest sy
 ZIEMAN--Isaac Zelig. Beloved husband of Ingeborg, father of Mimi and Josh, grandfather of Ari, Noa, Jake, Maya and Emma. Yitz, was a very special contributor to human kind, who passed away peacefully surrounded by his family. A true survivor, he handled his illness with the same determinati
 Tom Moore, who as president of the ABC Television Network in the 1960s helped it narrow the ratings gap with NBC and CBS, and who later won five Emmys as head of his own production company, died Saturday near his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 88. The death was confirmed by his
 Eddie Robinson, who in 55 seasons as the football coach at Grambling State University won a record number of games, mentored scores of future professional players and helped bring racial awareness to a segregated Southern society, died late Tuesday night in Ruston, La. He was 88 and lived i
 ALLEY--Fred. We express our deepest sympathy to the family of Fred Alley, our hunting friend. Our prayers our with you. Ten Mile River Preserve $(6$)ALLEY--Fred. The Officers, Committees, and the staff of the Pawling Mountain Club mourn the loss of Fred Alley, an avid sportsman, for
 FURST--Irving, 88, of Roslyn Heights, NY, on April 2, 2007. Beloved husband of Florence, his wife of 53 years. Devoted and much loved father to Lauren, father-inlaw to Peter Koos and doting grandfather of Matthew Koos. He is also survived by many loving nieces, nephews, grand nieces and nep
 GOLDMAN--Eugene, 74, died on April 2, 2007. Beloved husband of Marion Rolnick Goldman and the late Judith Ann. Loving father of Pamela and Danny Fried, Laurie and Jeffrey Goldberger and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Kyle, Jared, Jamie, Perry, Sydney and Cody. Adored brother of Howard an
 ROVINS--Jeffrey, 64, of Glen Rock, NJ, formerly of Guttenberg, NJ, on April 3, 2007. An attorney in NYC. Survived by his wife Julie McMurray; mother Rachel; daughter Jessica and son Joshua. Services are Friday, 10:00am at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W150 Rt. 4 East, Paramus, NJ.       
 SIMON--David O. Epstein Becker & Green, P.C. mourns the passing of our esteemed partner David O. Simon. David was an outstanding lawyer, noted for his honesty, integrity, good humor, creativity and commitment to the practice of law. He will be greatly missed as a friend and colleague. David
 WILSON--John E. The Board of Governors and Membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of one our most popular and esteemed members and fellow Board member. He enriched our lives with his warmth, humor, talent, generosity, elegance and intelligence. Our deepest sy
 ZIEMAN--Isaac. The Dialogue Project will deeply miss the presence of Isaac. His experience, wisdom and spirit touched all of us. His concern and compassion for the rights and needs of all people, and his passionate commitment to social justice, made his a voice that Jews, Palestinians, Musl
 LISKIN--Elliot. April 5th, remembered on his birthday and everyday. Joyce       
 Darryl Stingley, a receiver for the New England Patriots who became a quadriplegic after an intentionally violent hit in a 1978 preseason game, died yesterday in Chicago. He was 55. Tony Brucci, an investigator with the Cook County medical examiner's office, told The Associated Pres
 Jacques Courtin-Clarins, the founder and chairman of the Clarins Groupe, a French company that produces luxury skin-care products and makeup made primarily from plant extracts, died on March 23 at his home outside Paris. He was 85. His death was announced by the company. Mr.
 Michael Dibdin, an internationally acclaimed British crime novelist whose best-known books feature the brooding Italian police detective Aurelio Zen, died on March 30 in Seattle. He was 60 and had lived in Seattle in recent years. Mr. Dibdin died after a short illness, his stepdaugh
 ANFANG--Edward. The Yeshiva University and Wurzweiler School of Social Work families mourn the loss of our longtime, generous Wurzweiler Board of Governors member, Edward Anfang. His belief in the power of education to improve Jewish Communal Service led to his establishing many important W
 GOLDMAN--Eugene, 74, died on April 2, 2007. Beloved husband of Marion Rolnick Goldman and the late Judith Ann. Loving father of Pamela and Danny Fried, Laurie and Jeffrey Goldberger and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Kyle, Jared, Jamie, Perry, Sydney and Cody. Adored brother of Howard an
 HALPERIN--Jerome. Jerry was our special friend. His smile and sense of humor will never be forgotten. His deep devotion to family has created a legacy for generations to come. Our deepest condolences to his entire family. Deedy and David       
 KAPLAN--Jack, 73 years old, died on April 5th, 2007. He was a representative and consultant for Anti-Hydro International for over 50 years. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Services Friday, 11:30am, at ''RiversideNassau North Chapels'', 55 North Station Plaza (opposite LIRR), G
 REICH--Ismar M., 82, of Merrick, NY, on April 5th, 2007. Loving and beloved husband of Diane Wechsler Reich, father of Helen Rothman, Arnold Reich and Andrew Reich, father-in-law of Donna LaMagna, grandfather of Jonathan Rothman and Jordan Rothman, and brother of Annabelle Bernard. He was a
 ROSIER--Peter, physician with unbridled passions and intolerance for injustice, died tragically March 15 at 65. With indomitable will he traveled to the tropics in his last days though paralyzed and ailing. An alumnus of Dartmouth, SUNY - Downstate, and Duke, his practice in pathology in Ft
 SCHERR--Albert E. III., on March 28, 2007 at his home in Williamstown, MA. Husband of the late Elizabeth Babcock Scherr, and father of Elizabeth, Albert, Alexander and Edward. Born November 26, 1921 in Mt. Vernon, NY, as the only son of Albert Edward Scherr, Jr. and Marguerite Christine Sch
 Olcott Hawthorne Deming, a career Foreign Service officer and the first American ambassador to Uganda after it gained independence from Britain in 1962, died on March 20 near his home in Washington. He was 98. The death was confirmed by his son Rust Deming. Mr. Deming was ap
 DEMBITZER--Lester, 77, beloved husband, father and grandfather, attorney, accountant, and wise cousel to many. Proud of his humble beginnings. Funeral Sunday, April 8, at 12 noon, Plaza Jewish Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave., NY, NY. Donations can be sent to the StuyvesantCCNY Fund at City Colle
 GOLDY--Robert Ira, on April 4, 2007, of Philadelphia, PA. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee Ettelson), father of Jill Goldy (Mark Holtzer), Susan Goldy and Robert Goldy (Roberta Greenberg), grandfather of David, Danny, Taylor and Eric. Relatives and friends are invited to a Memorial Service Sun
 HALPERIN--Jerome. Jerry was our special friend. His smile and sense of humor will never be forgotten. His deep devotion to family has created a legacy for generations to come. Our deepest condolences to his entire family. Deedy and David       
 HOWITT--Nathan G., D.D.S., at the age of 96, passed away peacefully on April 3, 2007, at his home in Pompano Beach Florida. He was a distinguished Oral Surgeon and former president of the Bronx County Dental Society and former director of the Bronx Lebanon Dental Clinic. He will be sorely m
 LEE--Jeremy S., 68, of New Canaan, CT, formerly of West Roxbury, MA, died suddenly on April 4th. Former President of TBWA Health. Beloved husband of Jane O'Connell Lee and loving father of Marcia Lee Taylor. Funeral from the George F. Doherty & Sons Funeral Home, 477 Washington St., Wellesl
 LEVINE--Joshua, a resident of Rye, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, died April 6, 2007, at age 90. Born May 24, 1916, in New York City to Jack and Lillian Levine. Josh served in the U.S. Army during World War II, beginning as a Private and discharged as a Captain. In the European Theater of Operatio
 SEDERBAUM--William, on April 5, 2007. Beloved husband of Pearl and the late Harriet. Devoted father of Caroline and the late Arthur D. Adored grandfather of Rebecca, David and his wife Phoenix, and Elizabeth. Dear brother of the late Max. Service Sunday 11:30 am at ''The Riverside'' 76 Stre
 WINN--Rodger J., M.D., 69, died of esophageal cancer on April 4. Winn, an expert in quality of cancer care, was a consultant to NQF, chaired NCCN's Guidelines Steering Committee and was EditorIn-Chief of JNCCN. He founded MD Anderson's CCOP program. He was on the boards of Planned Parenthoo
 YOUNG--Andrew, died tragically on April 4, 2007. Andrew's unique combination of heart and head and his love of life made him a successful restauranteur and hotelier, on land and at sea, and endeared him to family and friends. He was a beloved husband, brother, uncle and cousin and he will b
 HANLEY--Charles J. April 7, 1977. We send Easter wishes to our loving father on his 30th anniversary in heaven. Ed, Kathy, Charlie and Tim       
 Walter Nicks, an internationally known dancer, teacher and choreographer, died on Tuesday in Brooklyn. He was 81. His death was confirmed by Dr. Glory Van Scott, a colleague and friend. Mr. Nicks was a certified master teacher of the technique of Katherine Dunham, at whose M
 Laurie Baker, a British architect whose chance meeting with Mahatma Gandhi in the 1940s started him on a lifelong career of designing low-cost and environmentally respectful houses in India, died on April 1 at the Hamlet, a home he designed himself, in Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of the
 DEMBITZER--Lester, 77, beloved husband, father and grandfather, attorney, accountant, and wise cousel to many. Proud of his humble beginnings. Funeral Sunday, April 8, at 12 noon, Plaza Jewish Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave., NY, NY. Donations can be sent to the StuyvesantCCNY Fund at City Colle
 DROHAN--William N. Died peacefully at his home in Germantown, MD, on Sunday, March 25, following a four-year battle with metastatic lung cancer. Dr. Drohan, formerly of Springfield, VA, and Santa Monica, CA, was 60. He was a well-known microbiologist and educator who will be remembered for 
 FOULKE--William G. 94, on March 30th, 2007, at home in Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, PA. Retired Chairman of Provident National Bank (a predecessor to PNC Bank); civic leader in Philadelphia. He established Provident as a leading provider of trust services, thus laying the groundwork for PNC
 GOLDMAN--Eugene. The Dysautonomia Foundation deeply mourns the passing of Eugene Goldman. A kind and gentle man, Gene was a strong supporter of the Foundation's work to advance research and medical care for familial dysautonomia (FD). We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Marion Rolnic
 GOLDY--Robert Ira, on April 4, 2007, of Philadelphia, PA. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee Ettelson), father of Jill Goldy (Mark Holtzer), Susan Goldy and Robert Goldy (Roberta Greenberg), grandfather of David, Danny, Taylor and Eric. Relatives and friends are invited to a Memorial Service Sun
 HUGHES--Sidney, 84, died peacefully at home on April 5th, 2007. He is survived by his wife, Cloty of 53 years, his children Nancy and Tom, his daughter - in - law Catherine, and grandsons Philip and Matthew, who remember a man of great good humor, gentleness and generosity. He illuminated t
 LEE--Jeremy S., 68, of New Canaan, CT, formerly of West Roxbury, MA, died suddenly on April 4th. Former President of TBWA Health. Beloved husband of Jane O'Connell Lee and loving father of Marcia Lee Taylor. Funeral from the George F. Doherty & Sons Funeral Home, 477 Washington St., Wellesl
 LEVINE--Joshua. The attorneys and staff of Davis & Gilbert LLP are profoundly saddened by the death of our partner and mentor Josh Levine, a brilliant lawyer, compassionate friend, and loving husband, father and grandfather. A ''lawyer's lawyer'', Josh joined our firm in 1937 and, but for h
 LOWENDAHL--Walter, April 1, 2007, film producer, age 87. Survived by his wife Nancy, stepchildren Jennifer and Robert, his daughters Anne and Fritzie, and granddaughters Audrey, Laura, and Gabriela. He will be lovingly remembered and missed by all. A gathering of friends will take place at 
 MOEHLE--Ronald Eaton, 53, City Planner, NYCDOT, died . March 30, 2007. Cremation at his request. Memorial service Wednesday, April 11, at 4:00 ,pm, at Good Shepherd Faith Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street. Donations to the Miriam and Saul Cohen Scholarship Fund at Hunter College; or
 OPPENHEIMER--Gary, 53, of Bluffton, SC. Son of the late Dorothy and Kurt Oppenheimer, died suddenly on April 2. He is survived by his wife Laurie, daughter Carolyn, son Paul, daughter-in-law Lauren, and sisters Gail and Linda.       
 RODAL--Alexander. 91 years old, died peacefully on March 28, 2007. Husband for 50 years of the late Mina. Father of Gail Stadler (Jeff), Dr. Stewart (Eva). Grandfather of Joshua, David (Jill), Alison, and Carolyn. Beloved uncle of Steve and Orna, friend of Esther. Holocaust survivor. For 60
 SEDERBAUM--William, on April 5, 2007. Beloved husband of Pearl and the late Harriet. Devoted father of Caroline and the late Arthur D. Adored grandfather of Rebecca, David and his wife Phoenix, and Elizabeth. Dear brother of the late Max. Service Sunday 11:30 am at ''The Riverside'' 76 Stre
 THORSON--William L., aged 69, a retired IBM executive of Chappaqua, NY died on Sunday, April 1, 2007 after a long courageous struggle with Parkinson's Disease. He served in the US Army and joined IBM where he held positions in marketing. He devoted himself to raising funds for research on P
 THURGOOD--Allen. With great sorrow, family and friends announce the death of the consumer advocate and coop pioneer. He was a true visionary who tirelessly exchanged ideas and enthusiasm across coop sectors, state and regions, and diverse cultures. Survived by brothers Frank and Robert Conn
 TRIMINGHAM--Shorty, 87, noted yachtsman, parliamentarian, and photographer. DeForest Wheeler Trimingham, C.B.E., of Bermuda died at his home, in Paget, on March 30, 2007, of acute leukemia. Born in 1919 to a family of yachtsmen, the sailor known worldwide simply as Shorty became one of the 
 WINN--Rodger J., M.D., 69, died of esophageal cancer on April 4. Winn, an expert in quality of cancer care, was a consultant to NQF, chaired NCCN's Guidelines Steering Committee and was EditorIn-Chief of JNCCN. He founded MD Anderson's CCOP program. He was on the boards of Planned Parenthoo
 YEN--Amos, 45, born on March 24, 1962, died on April 4, 2007. Survived by mother Mary Huang Yen, sister Dora Edelman, brothers John, Edward and Dewey. Predeceased by his father Victor Yen. Visiting 10:00am Monday, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, Dobbs Ferry (Exit 17 Sawmill).       
 VOLK--Herbert, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is saddened by the passing of Dr. Herbert Volk, a member of Einstein's founding faculty in the Department of Surgery. He was a valued member of the Einstein community from 1955 to 1991. We extend our condolences t
 Colin Graham, the artistic director of the Opera Theater of St. Louis, died on Friday in Creve Coeur, Mo., near St. Louis. He was 75. The cause was respiratory and cardiac arrest, the Opera Theater announced. Mr. Graham staged 48 new productions at St. Louis, including Britt
 GRAHAM--Colin. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of director Colin Graham, whose imaginative staging of John Corigliano's The Ghosts of Versailles contributed so much to the success of that opera's world premiere here in 1991. We also remember him for two new productions of Britten's 
 HUGHES--Sidney, 84, died peacefully at home on April 5th, 2007. He is survived by his wife, Cloty of 53 years, his children Nancy and Tom, his daughter - in - law Catherine, and grandsons Philip and Matthew, who remember a man of great good humor, gentleness and generosity. He illuminated t
 LEVINE--Joshua. The attorneys and staff of Davis & Gilbert LLP are profoundly saddened by the death of our partner and mentor Josh Levine, a brilliant lawyer, compassionate friend, and loving husband, father and grandfather. A ''lawyer's lawyer'', Josh joined our firm in 1937 and, but for h
 MERENDINO--Vincent J, M.D. died at Englewood Hospital on Sunday morning, April 8, 2007, following a courageous battle with numerous complications. Vincent was born on January 5, 1917, in New York City. He graduated from Columbia College in 1937, and received his M.D. from New York Medical C
 REDDY--John Joseph. John J. Reddy (Jack) passed away on Good Friday evening, April 6th, 2007, he was 87. Jack was survived by his spouse, Mary Faughnan Reddy. He was predeceased by his first wife Teresa Finn Reddy. Jack was survived by his five children, Marie T. Reddy, Bernadette A. Cahala
 YOUNG--Andrew Jay, lost to this world but not from our hearts on April 4 in Maryland. The first of two family services was held Sunday. A second service and burial will be held 2:00pm Tuesday, April 10 at Weinstein Mortuary, 640 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, CT. All those who loved him are w
 Sol LeWitt, whose deceptively simple geometric sculptures and drawings and ecstatically colored and jazzy wall paintings established him as a lodestar of modern American art, died yesterday in New York. He was 78 and lived mostly in Chester, Conn. The cause was complications from ca
 James J. Needham, the first full-time paid chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, died on Friday at his home in Southampton, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was complications related to myelodysplastic syndrome, a bone marrow disorder, his son-in-law, Tim Donahue, said. Mr. Need
 BERKULE--Leon, age 93, of Scarsdale, New York, died Saturday, April 7, 2007 at St. Vincent's Hospital. He is predeceased by his wife, Mildred Berkule. He was a graduate of Brooklyn Law School, admitted to the Bar in 1945. He is survived by his three children, Barbara (Sheldon) Cohen, Lynne 
 CASLOW--Rubin. The employees of Acme Smoked Fish Corp. deeply mourn the loss of Rubin ''Ruby'' Caslow. Our deepest sympathies go to his widow, Charlotte, and the entire Caslow family. Ruby was a pioneer in the smoked seafood industry and led Acme from a small Brooklyn smoke house to the lar
 DOHERTY--Thomas A., on April 7th, 2007, at his home in Vero Beach, Florida, after a long battle with cancer. Loving husband of Marianne; devoted father of Arlene, Karen, Bryan and Linda. Survived by his brother Frank and sister-in-law Joanne. Cherished grandfather of nine grandchildren. Vis
 GINSBERG--Jerome, 94, on April 8, 2007. Founder of Magna Book Distributors, decorated veteran of WWII, longtime champion of social causes. Remembered to the end for his ready wit and love of sports. Survived by son Robert, daughter-in-law Cynthia, granddaughter Rachel Beth, sister Rosalie, 
 GRAHAM--Colin. The entire Santa Fe Opera family mourns the death of Colin Graham, a friend and colleague. From 1973 through 2003 Mr. Graham was a dynamic presence in Santa Fe, directing some of the the company's most important works. His legacy is formidable and the opera community is riche
 LeWITT--Sol. The Foundation for Art and Preservation in Embassies is deeply saddened to learn of the loss of Sol LeWitt. His contribution to American art is immeasurable, and we are honored to include his work in our collection. We are grateful for his donation to our new Embassy in Berlin,
 MURPHY--Charles E., Jr., died April 5th, 2007 at 12:55 am PDT. He was 83 years old. Born and raised in Brooklyn, New York he graduated from Dartmouth College and Columbia Law School. During World War II he served actively with the United States Marine Corp from 1942 to 1946. He separated fr
 PETLZ--Claire. The Board of Directors of Triarc Companies, Inc. extends its sincere condolences to our company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Nelson Peltz, and his family on the passing of Mr. Peltz's mother, Claire Peltz, on April 5, 2007 at the wonderful age of 108.       
 REINSTEIN--Harvey, died at 78. Harvey Reinstein, a well known and widely respected television syndication salesman for such companies as Four Star, Metromedia, MGM and Lorimar, died early on the morning of his 78th Birthday on April 6th at his home in Lake Worth, Florida. His loving daughte
 WEBB--Dorothy Irene. 82. A lifelong resident of Ossining, NY until May 2005, died of natural causes on March 23, 2007 in Palm Springs, CA. Survived by son Jim and his lifepartner, Roy W. Rigsby of Palm Springs, CA; and son Franklin T., his wife Susan and their children Patricia and Catherin
 MERENDINO--Vincent J. M.D. Goodbye to a kind, generous buddy who treated the indigent ill with great compassion. We shall miss you. Madeline & Jack Freedman $(6$)MERENDINO--Vincent J. We deeply mourn the passing of our very special, irreplaceable ''Vinnie''. We will sorely miss our 
 LIEF--Arthur. Five years gone, deeply loved and sorely missed by 3 generations of his family. Ninety-three years weren't enough       
 Jagjit Singh Chauhan, the Sikh who led a violent separatist movement in India's northern Punjab State, died at his home in Tanda, India, on April 4. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Charanjit Kaur. Mr. Chauhan was born in 1927 in Tanda. A dentist by pr
 COXE--Eckley B. The Trustees of Freedom Institute express profound sorrow at the death of Eckley B. Coxe and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Buzzy served for many years as a member of the Institute's Board. He was a loyal supporter and a true friend. He will be missed. Nancy I. S
 DOHERTY--Thomas. Sister Elizabeth A. Hill, President, the Board of Trustees, and the entire St. Joseph's College community would like to express their deepest condolences to the family of Thomas Doherty. As a member of the College's Board of Trustees for 21 years and as Chairman of the Boar
 LEWITT--Sol, with great sorrow we mourn the death of Sol Lewitt, a remarkable artist, whose work and humanity enhanced our perception and our lives. We were privileged to have known him and to have published his prints. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Carol, his daughters, Sof
 O'REILLY--Owen R., Beloved husband of Laura (nee Cummins). Dear son of the late Margaret and Jerard. Loving Brother of Jerry, Mike, Oliver, Connie, Carmel, and Patrick. Dear Uncle of several neices and nephews. Reposing at the McManus & Ahern Funeral Home, 445 West 43 Street, New York, Thur
 PELL--Norman. The entire Continuum Health Partners family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Norman Pell, beloved father of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Lewis Pell, a member of the Continuum Board of Trustees. To Lew, his brother Aron, the entire Pell family, and all his fat
 PELTZ--Claire. The Board of Directors of Triarc Companies, Inc., extends its sincere condolences to our company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Nelson Peltz, and his family on the passing of Mr. Peltz's mother, Claire Peltz, on April 5, 2007, at the wonderful age of 108.       
 RUNDBACK--Robert Joseph, a resident of Mount Kisco, NY, and Naples, FL, died April 8, 2007, at the age of 80. Bob was a devoted husband, loving father, cherished grandfather and uncle. He was born in New Rochelle, NY, and graduated from Brooklyn College with a Masters degree at University o
 VAN LEUVEN--Thomas Carter, 40, died Saturday, April 7th, following a massive heart attack. He was an equity research and strategy analyst for the past 15 years. He is survived by his wife Margaretta, children Susannah and Johnny, and parents Susan and Jim Van Leuven and Barbara and John Mor
 YOUNG--Edgar B. April 6, 2007. It is with great sadness that the Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Edgar B. Young, a Director Emeriti and valued member of Lincoln Center's Board of Directors for 20 years. Author of Lincoln Center: The Build
 PERLMUTTER--Abraham S., adored father of Ilisse and Shelley, died April 4, 2007, at age 87. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Orangeburg, NY. He was a founding member and former President of the Orangetown Jewish Center. Beloved husband of the late Pearl. Service was April 6, 2007. Donations t
 George Jenkins, an Academy Award-winning production designer and three-time Tony nominee known for his architectural eye and scrupulous attention to detail, died on Friday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 98. He died of natural causes, said his granddaughter Wylie Griffin.
 Kurt Vonnegut, whose dark comic talent and urgent moral vision in novels like ''Slaughterhouse-Five,'' ''Cat's Cradle'' and ''God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater'' caught the temper of his times and the imagination of a generation, died last night in Manhattan. He was 84 and had homes in Manhattan
 CASLOW--Rubin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rubin Caslow, beloved father of Eric and Madeline and Robert and Miriam. The Caslow family's historic commitment to Jewish life and learning was built on a foundation of unparallele
 DOHERTY--Thomas. Sister Elizabeth A. Hill, President, the Board of Trustees, and the entire St. Joseph's College community would like to express their deepest condolences to the family of Thomas Doherty. As a member of the College's Board of Trustees for 21 years and as Chairman of the Boar
 LEWITT--Sol, with great sorrow we mourn the death of Sol Lewitt, a remarkable artist, whose work and humanity enhanced our perception and our lives. We were privileged to have known him and to have published his prints. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Carol, his daughters, Sof
 McDERMOTT--Kevin J., on April 11, 2007. Survived by loving daughters Lauren, Christine, and Jeanene. Also survived by his forever loving friend Susan Geiger. Former Ernst & Young partner. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell -The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. (81st St.) Frid
 SAUL--Joseph E. The Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Joseph E. Saul, an outstanding philanthropist. Mr. Saul's personal commitment to Mount Sinai included generous support for the Campaign for Excellence and Alzheimers research. His loyalty
 SHATTEN--Michael Lee, retired General Attorney of Ohio Bell, formerly of Cleveland, OH, died Sunday, April 1, 2007, in Atlanta, GA, at age 88. His career with the Bell System spanned 45 years. He proudly served as a USAF Captain during WWII. Above all, he was devoted to his family. His belo
 SIEGEL--Ted. Farewell Dear Friend. We will never forget the times we shared. The Epsteins and The Barsels $(6$)SIEGEL--Theodore. We mourn the passing of our member and extend heart felt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Rabbi Paula Winnig Presidents Carole Neely an
 VAN LEUVEN--Thomas Carter, 40, died Saturday, April 7th, following a massive heart attack. He was an equity research and strategy analyst for the past 15 years. He is survived by his wife Margaretta, children Susannah and Johnny, and parents Susan and Jim Van Leuven and Barbara and John Mor
 WEINGRAD--Irving. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, FL, acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Irving Weingrad. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Sunny and family. William Murphy, President       
 NEWMAN--Howard A. (Micky), February 2, 1921April 12, 2006. Honored for his acumen and philanthropy. Respected for his loyalty and integrity. Missed everyday by his family and friends.       
 Paul Leventhal, who as president of the small but influential Nuclear Control Institute was one of the most vocal opponents of expanding the commercial use of nuclear power, died Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his son Ted said. Mr. L
 Roscoe Lee Browne, a stage, film and television actor known for his rich voice, died early yesterday morning at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said Alan Nierob, a spokesman. Mr. Browne came to acting some
 Rubin Caslow, a titan of smoked fish who for half a century paved America with salmon, whitefish and herring, died on Sunday at his home in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 86. The cause was cancer, his son Robert said. For decades, Mr. Caslow presided over the Acme Smoked Fish Corporati
 Eben Pyne, a patrician banker who helped Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller mold New York's suburban transit system from a tangle of decrepit railroad lines, died Wednesday night at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Pyne also had a home in Northeast Harbor, Me., and for much of hi
 Edgar B. Young, the behind-the-scenes administrator who smoothed the way for the construction of Lincoln Center in the 1960s by juggling the demands of government agencies, donors, architects and artistic organizations, died on April 6 at his home in Medford, N.J. He was 98. The dea
 Kurt Vonnegut, whose dark comic talent and urgent moral vision in novels like ''Slaughterhouse-Five,'' ''Cat's Cradle'' and ''God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater'' caught the temper of his times and the imagination of a generation, died Wednesday night in Manhattan. He was 84 and had homes in Manh
 BROWNE--Roscoe Lee, an extraordinary actor, a raconteur par excellence, a superb person, Roscoe will live on. The American Place Theatre $(6$)BROWNE--Roscoe Lee. We mourn the loss of our longtime Trustee and faithful friend. He was always to be counted upon to be supportive of the a
 CASLOW--Rubin.Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 DELAFIELD--Maturin L., of Princeton, died on April 11, 2007, in Princeton. Born in New York City in 1933, a member of the Class of 1955 at Princeton University where he was a member of the Charter Club. After graduation he joined the family investment business of Delafield and Delafield and
 LeWITT--Sol. It is with deep sadness, that we heard of the death of our friend. We are privileged to have known him and to own his work. Deepest sympathy to his family, friends, and to Susanna Singer and Jo Watanabe. DJ and Robert J. Dodds III $(6$)LeWITT--Sol. Sol and the group of 
 McDERMOTT--Kevin J., on April 11, 2007. Survived by loving daughters Lauren, Christine, and Jeanene. Also survived by his forever loving friend Susan Geiger. Former Ernst & Young partner. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell -The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. (81st St.) Frid
 PREECE--Warren E., on Wednesday, April 11, 2007, age 85 of Philadelphia, PA, formerly of Key West, FL, North Orange, MA, Glencoe, IL, California, and Woodstock, CT. Beloved husband of Late -Deborah (Weeks) Preece, former editor for Encyclopedia Britannica. Father of Scott (Laurel) Preece, M
 SAUL--Joseph E. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home & Hospital Lifecare System extends its deepest sympathies to trustee Andrew Saul, Life Trustee Norma Saul and the entire family on the passing of their beloved father and husband, Joseph. Joseph's personal commit
 SAVER--Dr. Harry. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime, devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Assoc. Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 SHATTEN--Michael Lee, retired General Attorney of Ohio Bell, formerly of Cleveland, OH, died Sunday, April 1, 2007, in Atlanta, GA, at age 88. His career with the Bell System spanned 45 years. He proudly served as a USAF Captain during WWII. Above all, he was devoted to his family. His belo
 SMUCKLER--Gerald. Be loved husband of Carol. Father of Dariel and Michael. On April 11, 2007. He will be deeply missed by all. Services will be held atWalker Funeral Home of Queens, 87-34 80th St., Woodhaven, NY 11421, April 13th, 4-8pm.       
 VONNEGUT--Kurt. The Principals and staff of Wohl, Fried, Roth & Kirchenberg, C.P.A.'s extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Kurt Vonnegut. We were privileged not only to represent him, but to know him as a friend. He was a legend and will be sorely missed by all who came to appreciat
 LILIENFELD--Arthur, 4/13/05 Will never be forgotten by those who knew & loved him. Bob       
 Barry Nelson, an actor who had a long career in film and television, starred in some of the more durable Broadway comedies of the 1950s and '60s, and achieved a permanent place in the minds of trivia buffs as the first actor to portray James Bond, died last Saturday, his wife said yesterday
 BROWNE--Roscoe Lee. We mourn the loss of our longtime Trustee and faithful friend. He was always to be counted upon to be supportive of the aims and purposes of the Society. He filled our lives with the soft sound of poetry as only he could recite it. Now the stage is empty and the lights a
 GOLDMAN--Joseph B. (Jay) on April 12, 2007. Former New York State Acting Commissioner of Housing, retired Civil Court Judge and Assistant Corporation Counsel for the City of New York. Survived by loving daughters Amie Frances Goldman and Betsy Goldman Wallshein, adored granddaughter Samanth
 PYNE--Eben. The Juilliard community mourns the passing of Eben Pyne, trustee emeritus of the School since 2001 and a Board member appointed in 1972. With intelligence, elegance, and diplomacy, Eben served Juilliard in numerous ways. His wise counsel was of great importance to Juilliard at c
 SAUL--Joseph E. Good Friend for over 50 years. He fought a long and valiant battle. An outstanding businessman and philanthropist, he had a wry sense of humor. Our personal memories include an image of him and Norma sailing in all weather conditions. Our heartfelt condolences to $(6$)SAUL--
 WEINGAST--David, 94, of Ridgefield, CT, and Fire Island, NY, died on April 12th. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Beatrice, four children, Beth, Erica, Jeremy and Victor; and six grandchildren. An educator and author he taught in Newark, NJ, and was Superintendent of Schools in Ridgefield
 YOUNG--Edgar. The Juilliard School extends its deepest condolences to the family of Edgar Young. An individual of great intelligence, he helped build the Lincoln Center concept and was instrumental in realizing many of the initiatives developed for the new arts center in the 1960s. His cont
 Reginald H. Fuller, a prominent British-born New Testament scholar who used his knowledge of Hebrew and Greek to hunt for the historical Jesus and his fluency in German to debate the nuances with theologians, died on April 4 in Richmond, Va. He was 92. The cause was complications of
 Stan Daniels, a television writer who won Emmy Awards for his work on the groundbreaking situation comedies ''Taxi'' and ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' died April 6 at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said Ed Weinberger, his former writing partner.
 Warren E. Preece, a former editor of The Encyclopaedia Britannica who in the early 1970s shepherded it through its first major redesign in decades, a task he likened publicly to fighting a war, died on Wednesday in Philadelphia. He was 85 and had lived in Philadelphia in recent years.      
 Don Ho, an entertainer who defined popular perceptions of Hawaiian music in the 1960s and held fast to that image as a peerless Waikiki nightclub attraction, died yesterday in Honolulu. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, his daughter Dayna Ho said. Mr. Ho was a durable 
 Egon Bondy, a poet and philosopher whose idiosyncratic cocktail of whimsically demented verse and profoundly subversive metaphysics lubricated the underground movement that helped topple Communism in Czechoslovakia, died on Monday in Bratislava, Slovakia. He was 77. The Czech News A
 BROCKWAY--Richard C. Mutual of America and its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn the passing of our former President, Richard C. Brockway. Mr. Brockway, a graduate of the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, was born on February 18, 1908 in Ro
 BROWN--Jack M., died peacefully at his home at Princeton Windrows, Princeton, NJ on April 10, 2007 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Dorothy Taylor Brown, his devoted sister Madelyn Brown Harris of New York and nephews Jack Brown Harris of New York and Steven Brown Harris of 
 BUNIS--Stephen. Beloved father of Kristopher and Matthew. Loving son of George and Joan, good spouse to Patty and great brother to Andrea. Passed on April 7, 2007. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. He was kind and generous to everyone. All our love, forever.       
 CLEMENT--Gregory, III, Architect, died at home in Weston, CT, on Wednesday, April 11th, 2007, of melanoma, at 56. Managing Principal of Kohn Pedersen Fox and Fellow of the AIA. Graduate of St. George's School in Newport, RI, and The University of Pennsylvania. Oversaw numerous international
 DODSON--Glenn. The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the loss of Glenn Dodson, alumnus, longtime faculty member, and former principal trombone of the Philadelphia Orchestra. A larger than life figure, he was a master of his instrument, a gifted teacher, a raconteur without peer, and above al
 DUNBAR--Judge Gerald J., Civil Court Judge. The Honorable Gerald J. Dunbar, a judge in the Civil Court of the City of New York, died Thursday April 12 in New York Methodist Hospital after a short and sudden illness. Born in Peoria, Illinois, January 15, 1947 and raised in Buffalo, Judge Dun
 ELKINS--Robert Charles, 89, died April 11, 2007, in Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Lawrence, NY. Artist, poet and family man extraordinaire. He will be greatly missed by his wife, Geraldine, his loving daughter, Joanne Ranzer, and son-in-law David; and his cherished granddaughters, Cori and Ka
 EYRE--John, 1935-2007, died on March 8, in Newport, RI. His funeral mass will be held on Saturday April 21, 10:00 am at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue and 84th Street.       
 GOLDMAN--Joseph B. (Jay) on April 12, 2007. Former New York State Acting Commissioner of Housing, retired Civil Court Judge and Assistant Corporation Counsel for the City of New York. Survived by loving daughters Amie Frances Goldman and Betsy Goldman Wallshein, adored granddaughter Samanth
 GUITON--Jacques, died peacefully at his home in New York City on Sunday, April 8, 2007 at the age of 93. Husband of Margaret Otis Guiton, father of Nicolette Guiton, John Guiton (Linda Chesis) and the late Jacqueline Guiton, and grandfather of Sophie Guiton. Memorial service to be held at a
 HIRSCH--Barry. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member Mr. Barry Hirsch and offer their deepest sympathy to his loving companion, Karen Mansour, his children and the entire Hirsch Family. Alpine Country Club 
 KOENIG--Richard. I regret to announce the death of Richard Koenig, Controller of the American Branch of the Cambridge University Press from 1969 to 1985. He died March 10th after a battle with cancer. A resident of Deerfield Beach, Florida, Richard was 87. He was a man of great wit and wisd
 KUTOSH--Steven Jordan, January 21, 2007. Survived by his mother, Eleanor Kutosh, daughter, Heather Gottlieb, grandsons, Samuel and Adam, son, Alexander Kutosh, and sister Margot Orlander, and nephew, Matthew.       
 LeWITT--Sol. Sol and the group of like-minded friends founded Printed Matter in 1976. His generosity towards other artists and a wide range of radical art practices is revealed in that simple act. His own books run through his life's work like a thread, perpetually drawing us back towards h
 MAUCK--Ward, of Stonington, CT, beloved brother, father, stepfather and grandfather died April 6th at age 78. He is survived by his sons, Alden, Parker and Andrew and his brothers, F. Taylor Mauck and Osborne Mauck. Ward was born in Bryn Mawr, PA and graduated from the Hotchkiss School, Wil
 PYNE--Eben. The Juilliard community mourns the passing of Eben Pyne, trustee emeritus of the School since 2001 and a Board member appointed in 1972. With intelligence, elegance, and diplomacy, Eben served Juilliard in numerous ways. His wise counsel was of great importance to Juilliard at c
 SAUL--Joseph E. The faculty and staff of The Mount Sinai Heart mourn the loss of Joseph E. Saul, a generous philanthropist. Mr. Saul's personal commitment to cardiology will long be remembered. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Norma; his son Andrew, an esteemed Trustee; and the 
 SAVER--Harry N., 77, of Scarsdale, NY and Palm Beach, FL died April 10. Graduate of Harvard College and Tufts Medical School, he practiced for many years as an internist in the NYC Hospital system, well-respected by colleagues and students and loved by patients. Devoted husband, father, gra
 SUSSMAN--Morris, on April 5. Entrepreneur and philanthropist. A leader in the cosmetic packaging industry founding two firms: Shore Plastics and Cadview Technologies. He was discreetly generous to both organized charities and his friends, while mentoring a large number of colleagues. Loving
 VONNEGUT--Kurt. The American Civil Liberties Union mourns the passing of iconoclastic author and staunch friend of civil liberties, Kurt Vonnegut. Vonnegut's wise, freethinking writing touched Americans of all ages, and his steadfast support of civil liberties over his lifetime was uncompro
 WEINGRAD--Irving, 90, of Lake Worth, Florida passed away peacefully at home on April 10, 2007. Beloved husband of Sylvia for 67 years. Devoted father of Mitchell Weingrad (Jane), Dr. Daniel Weingrad (Elizabeth) and Heidi Leon (Juan). Loving grandfather of Harris, Marlon, Julie, Marc and Rac
 WILSON--John H., died in New York on March 21, at age 84. As a company manager for Sol Hurok and Harold Shaw, and presentations manager for the Metropolitan Opera, John was a consummate professional. His friends knew him as a New England gentleman of strongly held opinions who will be dearl
 WURZER--Gerhard. April 30, 1941-April 8, 2007. Members of the International Fine Print Dealers Association mourn the untimely passing of esteemed friend and colleague Gerhard Wurzer, an internationally respected dealer of 19th and 20th century prints, paintings and drawings. Since its incep
 MADOFF--Roger. April 25, 1973-April 15, 2006. Dear husband, son, brother, uncle, friend, each day with you was rich with laughter and love. Your hope, wisdom and generous spirit stay with us, always. Lovingly remembered today and everyday. $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. It has been a difficult year fo
 Paul Watzlawick, a therapist who advanced a novel strategy for rapid diagnosis and treatment of problems that occur in marriages and families, died on March 31 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. In the 1960s, Dr. Watzla
 Don Ho, an entertainer who defined popular perceptions of Hawaiian music in the 1960s and held fast to that image as a peerless Waikiki nightclub attraction, died Saturday in Honolulu. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, his daughter Dayna Ho said. Mr. Ho was a durable s
 James Lyons, a film editor whose most notable collaborations were with the director Todd Haynes on several feature films, including ''Safe,'' ''Velvet Goldmine'' and ''Far From Heaven,'' died Thursday in Manhattan. He was 46 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. The cause was squamous cell
 FELDER--Lawrence, on April 12, 2007. Beloved husband of Ruth (Kitain), devoted father of Brenda (Elkind) and Maxwell, father-in-law of Steven Elkind and Kate Ryan, adoring and adored ''Granpa'' of Erin, Sophie, Marissa and Lucie, brother of Louisa Solomon and the late Karl Felder and Rhoda 
 GOLUB--Maurice P. Beloved father of Robert and Richard, father-in-law to Grace and Joan, loving grandfather to Rebecca, Brian, Grant, and Kaitie, passed on April 10, 2007. The nicest man on earth, he will be greatly missed.       
 RINEHART--George Henry Doran, of Annapolis, Maryland, died Tuesday, April 10, at age 78. He is survived by his beloved wife, Anne, whom he wed in 1985; his sisters, Mary R. Huvelle and Lady Benedicta Knox; his brother, Stanley M. Rinehart III; his daughter, Deborah Rinehart Fowler; his sons
 SPINA--Anthony Louis of Brightwaters, LI, on April 14, 2007, at the age of 93. Loving husband of Jean for 70 years. Caring father of Peter, Jan Kelly, David, Rosemary, Ann Hyman and Mark. Dear grandfather of Kim Trupp, Peter Kelly, Susan Smith, Anthony Kelly, Kate Spina, Alexander Spina, Da
 Salvatore Scarpitta, an artist whose work ranged from three-dimensional wrapped canvases that evoked survival and death to sculptural renderings of cars and sleds that extolled his belief in travel as a metaphor for life, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. The caus
 ARGAMASO--Ravelo M.D., 81. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Ravelo Argamaso M.D., an esteemed colleague for over 40 years and a founder of Montefiores Center for Craniofacial Surgery. Dr. Argamaso served as professor and 
 CORCORAN--David, 45, of Maine, on April 6th, 2007. Beloved son of Peter and Faith, brother of Carole, Kathy, Beth, Alex and Chris and partner of Jane Schaller. Master wooden boat builder and owner of Bullhouse Boatworks. His artistry, passion, and loyal companionship will be missed by all. 
 FLANDER--Carl-Eric. Died on April 12, 2007, at the age of 94. He was raised and educated in Finland and was fluent in five languages. He received graduate degrees in Germany and was a technical expert in papermaking. Sometime before World War II, he came to the USA to represent the Finnish 
 GATTONI--Kenneth R., age 49 of Basking Ridge, NJ, a senior partner with Deloitte & Touche in New York City on April 14, 2007. Son of Lawrence and the late Joan Gattoni, husband of Jacqueline R. (Taylor) Gattoni, father of Kristen T., Ryan T., and Daniel T., brother of Thomas, Donald and Jam
 GRANT--William R., 82, Venture capitalist, investment banker, and philanthropist passed away Sunday, April 15, 2007, following a year's illness from metastatic melanoma. He is survived by his beloved wife, Adele Grant, and is predeceased by his beloved wife of 43 years, Dorothy Annetta Gran
 HOCH--Frank. Brown Brothers Harriman mourns the loss of our friend and Partner Frank W. Hoch. Frank joined the Firm in 1947 and became a Partner in 1960. He was importantly responsible for the growth of our international businesses. Frank combined his business acumen with his personal graci
 HOSTETTER--Donald. Presbyterian pastor, church executive, and legendary pioneer in camping passed away peacefully on Easter Day, April 8, 2007. He is survived by his wife Joan, his sons Mark and Jonathan, five grandchildren, three stepchildren, and five stepgrandchildren. A memorial service
 KLUFER--Robert E., 85, of Rye, NY and Palm Beach, FL died peacefully on April 14th after a long illness. Beloved husband of Alyse Joel, loving father of the late Laura Cave and Jane Shrage, Elisabeth Klufer and Nancy Greengrass, adoring grandfather of Damien, Michael, Max, Natalie, Ross and
 LASSOFF--Martin, 76, of NYC, on April 15, 2007 after a long illness. Adored husband of Michelle, cherished father of Samantha, Andrea, Lisa, Eric, and Jan, and granddad of Sadie and Sean, beloved brother of Roz and Doris, and brothers-in-law Marvin and Harry. An esteemed litigator and stead
 PYNE--Eben. The Mount Desert Festival of Chamber Music in Northeast Harbor, ME mourns the passing of our esteemed Board President Eben Pyne. His wisdom, charm and expertise will be sorely missed by everyone associated with the festival. His love and enthusiasm for music underscored a firm c
 SPINA--Anthony Louis of Brightwaters, LI, on April 14, 2007, at the age of 93. Loving husband of Jean for 70 years. Caring father of Peter, Jan Kelly, David, Rosemary, Ann Hyman and Mark. Dear grandfather of Kim Trupp, Peter Kelly, Susan Smith, Anthony Kelly,Kate Spina, Alexander Spina, Dan
 WILKIE--George Hamilton, 75, died on April 14, 2007, of cancer after a short illness. Husband of the late Suzannah Ryan Wilkie, he is survived by his children, Angus Wilkie of New York, NY, Austin Wilkie of New York, NY, and Serena Wilkie Gifford of Cambridge, MA, and by his grandchildren, 
 WOLFF--Sandford I. (Bud). The National Office of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, the 70,000 member union of professional performers and broadcasters, mourns the passing of our colleague, mentor and friend who lead this union for 17 years as its chief executive. Sinc
 Rexford E. Tompkins, a former chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York who was one of the industry's leading voices in creating New York City's rent stabilization system, died Thursday near his home in Miami. Mr. Tompkins was 90. The death was announced by his daughter Diana Sc
 Brant Parker, a co-creator of ''The Wizard of Id,'' an award-winning comic strip that is set in medieval times and has poked fun at politics and cultural follies for more than 40 years, died on Sunday at his home in Lynchburg, Va. He was 86. The cause was complications from Alzheime
 Conrad Spizz, a tough-talking, cigar-chewing artisan of smoked fish whose work was enshrined behind glass at some of New York's best-known food shops, died on April 3 in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in New Hyde Park, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, his son, Harvey, s
 Hans Koning, whose outpouring of more than 40 fiction and nonfiction books ranged from exotic travel to erotic trauma to a withering indictment of Christopher Columbus, died on Friday at his home in Easton, Conn. He was 85. His daughter Christina Koning confirmed the death, but decl
 BERMON--Stuart, 70, a retired Research Physicist of Yonkers, died Sunday, April 15, 2007, at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He is survived by his daughter, Jennifer Bermon of Venice, CA, his brother, Maurice Bermon, and his wife, Louise of Barrington, RI, and his devoted companion, Deborah 
 FELDER--Larry. Rudin Management Company express their deepest condolences to the Felder family on the passing of Larry. We will miss his contribution to our organization. Jack Rudin, Chairman.       
 FIELD--Howard O. Writer extraordinaire passed from his dear family and friends. He played his trump card on April 13, 2007 in Palm Springs, CA. He is survived by his loving life partner of 50 years, Jack Kellogg, his sister Elayne, his nieces and nephews Alex and Syd, Doug and Janis, Liz an
 FINLAY--John R., M.D. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary deeply mourns the passing of an esteemed physician and colleague for more than 55 years. Dr. Finlay completed his Ophthalmology residency at the Infirmary and later became a surgeon director. He was an early investigator of intraocula
 GRANT--William R., 82, Venture capitalist, investment banker, and philanthropist passed away Sunday, April 15, 2007, following a year's illness from metastatic melanoma. He is survived by his beloved wife, Adele Grant, and is predeceased by his beloved wife of 43 years, Dorothy Annetta Gran
 HERZ--Wolfgang A., passed away peacefully at home on April 16th, 2007, at age 77 after a short and sudden illness. He is survived by Heide, his beloved wife of 44 years, and his loving daughters Anya and Audrey. Wolfgang was a collector of art and rare books, a philanthropist, and an entrep
 LEWITT--Sol. The New School and the Board of Trustees mourn the passing of our friend Sol LeWitt. Mr. LeWitt's generous gifts to the University's Art Collection enhance our tradition of the importance of contemporary art in the life of an educated citizenry. His well-known support of younge
 ROSSEN--Stephen M., died April 17th, at the age of 67. A wonderful husband to Susan Ko, adored father of Benjamin, Daniel, and Dan Ko. Devoted son to Sue and the late Robert Rossen. Extraordinary brother and uncle to Ellen, Carol, and Eve Holbrook. He was smart, funny, and loving. He will b
 TOMPKINS--Rex. Rudin Management Company express their deepest condolences to the Tompkins family on the passing of Rex, a great real estate manager, banker and dear friend. We will miss his great wisdom, insight and his love for our city. Jack Rudin, Chairman. $(6$)TOMPKINS--Rexford. The As
 WICKERI--Randy Dwight, 55, died peacefully on April 13, 2007, in Morristown, NJ. Beloved brother, brother-in-law and uncle. He was born in Finland, grew up in Pelham Manor, NY, and lived for many years near Lake Hopatcong, NJ. Deeply missed for his independent spirit and generous nature.   
 WILKIE--George Hamilton, 75, died on April 14, 2007, of cancer after a short illness. Husband of the late Suzannah Ryan Wilkie, he is survived by his children, Angus Wilkie of New York, NY, Austin Wilkie of New York, NY, and Serena Wilkie Gifford of Cambridge, MA, and by his grandchildren, 
 WOLFF--Sanford I. We are profoundly saddened at the loss of Career Transition For Dancers' (CTFD) devoted and passionate board member and legal counsel Sanford I. Wolff. Better known as ''Bud'' to his many friends, he along with his wife, Ann Barry, Founding Director and Grants Administrato
 Roy Moyer, a painter who helped bring works by other artists to museums across the United States, died on April 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said his partner, Karl Lunde. Trained as an art historian and concert pianist and self-taught 
 Alvin L. Roth, who was one of the most talented bridge players of all time, winning 26 national championships with 11 different partners, died yesterday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Roth died of natural causes, his family said. Born in the Bronx in 1914, Mr. Roth was a
 Chaucey Starr, a pioneer in the fields of nuclear energy and risk analysis and an evangelist for the idea of electrification as a boon to humankind and the environment, died on Tuesday at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 95. Mr. Starr was still coming to work six days a week unti
 ANDRON--Daniel. Loving and devoted husband to Esther. Father to Richard and Mercy, Saul and Susan, Janet and Kenny. Brother to Estelle Landes. Grandfather to Elisha and Dina, Rachel and Ray, Talia, Eliana, Aleza, Mollie, Avital, Yardena and Dave, Ilan and Ariel. Greatgrandfather to Noam. He
 BROWN--Jack M. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home & Hospital mourn the passing of Life Trustee and former president Jack M. Brown. Jack was a wonderful man, a dedicated leader and generous benefactor. He was proud to have been involved with ''so fine an instituti
 CROSS--Frederick S., M.D., beloved husband of Priscilla Baker Cross. Dear father of Leslie M. Cross of Long Island, NY, Barbara Cross (Roy Call) of Cleveland Heights, OH, Laurie Cross (Gerald Knorr) of Seattle, Washington, Steven Frederick Cross of Olympia, Washington, and David Brian Cross
 GOTTLIEB--Nat (Tiger). 1924-2007. Loved and adored, unique and special, our hero. Claire, Jeff and Kathy, Joshua, Melissa and Mark, and Miss Piggy $(6$)GOTTLIEB--Nathan. Jerry's golfing partner, kind and good friend to our entire family. We will always miss him. Our sincere condolen
 HARBEN--George Allen, 83, passed away peacefully at his home on April 17, 2007, following a long illness. He is survived by Marilynn LeVine, his wife of 43 years; sons Joshua, Jeb and Zeph; grandsons Leo and Aidan; a brother William Nathanial Harben and a sister, Judith Harben Alger. A grad
 HAUGEN--John C. The directors and staff of the American Parkinson Disease Association mourn the loss of our friend and treasurer of seven years. John was a quiet man of charity, compassion and faith, who served with fervor yet without flourish. We will miss him deeply, as will the many peop
 HERZ--Wolfgang A., passed away peacefully at home on April 16th, 2007, at age 77 after a short and sudden illness. He is survived by Heide, his beloved wife of 44 years, and his loving daughters Anya and Audrey. Wolfgang was a collector of art and rare books, a philanthropist, and an entrep
 KATZ--Dr. Leonard. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Dr. Leonard Katz. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Howard F . Sharfstein, President $(6$)KATZ--Leonard, M.D., beloved husband of Abigail Merril
 PYNE--Eben W., 89, died April 11, 2007, at his home in Hobe Sound, Florida. A Service will be held on May 12 at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 182 Main St., Gladstone, NJ at 10:30 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Brooklyn Museum, Fort Ticonderoga, Juilliard School of Music
 RAEBURN--Robert A., 77, former president N. S. Meyer, Inc., died April 17, 2007, at NY Presbyterian Hospital following a long battle with cancer. Mr. Raeburn graduated from the Virginia Military Institute. He distinguished himself as a member of the Institute's swim team, setting southern c
 ROSSEN--Stephen M., died April 17th, at the age of 67. A wonderful husband to Susan Ko, adored father of Benjamin, Daniel, and Dan Ko. Devoted son to Sue and the late Robert Rossen. Extraordinary brother and uncle to Ellen, Carol, and Eve Holbrook. He was smart, funny, and loving. He will b
 TOMPKINS--Rexford E. NADAP marks with great sadness the passing of one of its founders, Rexford E. Tompkins, age 90. NADAP's success is built upon the founders' foresight that education and employment play significant roles in reducing addiction and reviving the lives of individuals, famili
 VONNEGUT--Kurt. Guild Hall Academy of the Arts 1985 Literary Lifetime Achievement honoree will be greatly missed by the cultural institution he so inspired. Roy Furman, Academy President Melville Straus, Board Chairman Ruth Appelhof, Executive Director       
 BERSTLER--Steven. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Steve Berstler, our brilliant and committed Chief Investment Officer and Treasurer, who for the past 10 years oversaw the museum's endowment with impressive acumen. He was universally respected b
 DREXEL--John R., III. The Board of Governors of the American Society of the Order of St. John and the Officers of the Priory in The United States of the Order of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem are deeply saddened by the death of John R. Drexel III, KStJ, on Friday April 13th. A Membe
 HARBEN--George Allen, 83, passed away peacefully at his home on April 17, 2007, following a long illness. He is survived by Marilynn LeVine, his wife of 43 years; sons Joshua, Jeb and Zeph; grandsons Leo and Aidan; a brother William Nathanial Harben and a sister, Judith Harben Alger. A grad
 HERSCH--Irwin, died at his home on Lake Waccabuc, NY. Entrepreneur, dog lover, fisherman and sports fan. Among his enterprises were Coliseum Books, Grand Central Books, Mt. Kisco Book Company and Mango Cafe. Survived by Sherrin, Kathie, Daniel, Candace, Ruby and Cosmo Hersch. A Memorial wil
 LEON--Louis, A. Devoted husband of 65 years to Gertrude (who pre-deceased him) died April 18 at the age of 92. Born and raised in Brooklyn, he attended Brooklyn college at night. During WWII he was stationed in China and was awarded the Bronze star. Brilliant and hard working, Lou rose thro
 MARION--James Preston, Jr., 88, of New Canaan, CT, died Wednesday, March 28, 2007, in Vero Beach, FL. He was born July 12, 1918 in Sumter, S.C. to Dr. James P. and Lillian Marion. He was a 1941 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and was a Golden Gloves boxer during his years at Annapolis. D
 NEMSER--Stanley. The partners, associates and staff of Wolf Popper LLP mourn the passing of our esteemed mentor, colleague and friend, Stanley Nemser, who was a partner in the firm for more than 20 years until recently becoming of counsel. Mr. Nemser, a brilliant litigator, was a pioneer in
 PAGE--Gilbert E., on April 18, 2007. Beloved son of the late Fred and Carmen (Thompson) Page, and adoring grandson of the late Jessie Thompson. Gil is survived by his devoted long-time partner Frank Friuli with whom he shared a 46 year loving relationship. Gil is further survived by his ado
 POPA--Ervin A., of New York City, on April 18th, age 98, formerly of Bucharest, Romania. Beloved father of Ingrid and Alda; grandfather of Domnica and Adriana; and father-in-law of Mircea. Beloved husband of his late wife Ariane. Visiting hours at Campbell Funeral Home, Friday 2-4pm and 7-9
 POPE--Leavitt J. His footsteps engraved upon the sands of time bore an incredible legacy of caring. Legions of this Town's endangered youth drew his attention. He rolled up his sleeves and lent his immense energies to the task of rebuilding young lives. Crashaw wrote: ''All thy good works w
 PYNE--Eben W., 89, died April 11, 2007, at his home in Hobe Sound, Florida. A Service will be held on May 12 at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 182 Main St., Gladstone, NJ at 10:30 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Brooklyn Museum, Fort Ticonderoga, Juilliard School of Music
 RAEBURN--Robert A., 77, former president N. S. Meyer, Inc., died April 17, 2007, at NY Presbyterian Hospital following a long battle with cancer. Mr. Raeburn graduated from the Virginia Military Institute. He distinguished himself as a member of the Institute's swim team, setting southern c
 SAUNDERS--Donald G., of San Juan Capistrano, California, passed away peacefully at his home on April 13, 2007. Born in Cleveland, Ohio on October 25, 1931, Mr. Saunders was a private investor and entrepreneur. Known as the ''Grandfather'' of resort timesharing, he is widely credited with in
 Former Representative Steven B. Derounian, who represented Nassau County in Congress from 1953 to 1965 and was later a judge, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex. He was 89 and moved to Austin, in his wife's home state, from Garden City in 1981. His nephew, Paul D. Derounian of Manhattan
 Andrew Hill, a pianist and composer of highly original and sometimes opaquely inner-dwelling jazz whose work only recently found a wide audience, died yesterday at his home in Jersey City. He was 75. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Joanne Robinson Hill. It took alm
 Carlo Maria Badini, a former superintendent of the Teatro alla Scala in Milan who brought the opera house into the age of television and corporate sponsorship, died in Bologna, Italy, on Thursday. He was 81. His death was announced by La Scala, which did not give a cause. The Italia
 Frank H. Westheimer, a Harvard chemist whose work in understanding how the body metabolizes alcohol became a model for similar studies in the growing field of biochemistry, died last Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95. Dr. Westheimer's death was confirmed by his family.     
 MARKS--Charles Emmanuel Sr., an artist, died on April 17th. He was Born October 25th, 1917 to Alma and Clarence Marks of Philadelphia. He served as an aviator pilot in the Navy during World War II. Mr. Marks graduated from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, and lived most of his life in
 NEMSER--Stanley. His family mourns the passing of a wonderful husband to Barbara of 51 years, a proud soldier, lawyer and family man. He will be sorely missed by all those who knew and loved him. A memorial service will be held Sunday, 2 pm, at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Road
 PYNE--Eben W., 89, died April 11, 2007, at his home in Hobe Sound, Florida. A Service will be held on May 12 at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 182 Main St., Gladstone, NJ at 10:30 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Brooklyn Museum, Fort Ticonderoga, Juilliard School of Music
 RAEBURN--Robert A. The employees of Vanguard Industries wish to pay tribute to Robert A. Raeburn, who passed away on April 17, 2007 in New York. Mr. Raeburn was a friend, competitor, and business associate for over 50 years. He will be missed by all who knew him. He was a man of integrity, 
 WING--Earl, 85 years of age died at his Jersey City residence on Wednesday, April 18, 2007. Son of the late Alfred E. Wing, and Cornelia DeGraw. Born in Ontario, California he resided in New York City from 1944. He was employed at Walgreen's Soda Fountain on 42nd Street, before joining the 
 Kelsie B. Harder, whose ruminations about why his parents gave him what sounded like a girl's name provoked such enthrallment with proper nouns that he became a leading onomastician -- a student of names and their origins -- died on April 12 at his home in Potsdam, N.Y. He was 84. T
 ARGAMASO--Ravelo. The Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Montefiore Medical Center and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine is deeply saddened with the passing of their senior colleague and devoted faculty member. He was born in the Philippines in 1926 and received his M
 BERGSTEIN--Leonard. Loving husband, father, and grandfather. Survived by his wife Marilyn, three daughters, seven grandchildren, and all of those who had the good fortune of knowing him. He will be missed. Memorial Service at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck, 2pm, April 23, 2007. 
 DANTZKER--Morris ''Dan'' Dan Dantzker died on April 12, 2007. A resident of San Francisco since 1986, Dan's roots remained in Washington, D.C. and New York City, where he was born 92 years ago. He was the only one of four children of immigrant parents from Luboml, Ukraine born in the United
 FEINBERG--Sidney, New York entertainment attorney died on April 20th. Mr. Feinberg was a graduate of Harvard Law School and a prominent attorney in the field of entertainment, representing many Broadway shows, as well as stars of stage, film, and TV. He will be mourned by family and his man
 FRANKS--Donald, age 83, died April 20th after a long struggle with Parkinson's disease. A WWII marine who fought at Iwo Jima. Survived by his wife Carol, nieces, nephew and their children. Services at The Plaza Community Chapel (Amsterdam Ave and 91st St). Monday, April 23rd at 9:45am. Cont
 GOLUB--Maurice P. Beloved father of Robert and Richard, father-in-law to Grace and Joan, loving grandfather to Rebecca, Brian, Grant, and Kaitie, passed on April 10, 2007. The nicest man on earth, he will be greatly missed.       
 HARTMAN--John Wheeler. Management, Innovator, Author, Philanthropist. John Wheeler Hartman of Ocean Reef, Key Largo, Florida, died on April 5th, 2007 at the age of 84. He was predeceased by his wife of 56 years, Esther Kelly Bill Hartman. In 1946. Mr. Hartman was one of the founders of Baco
 HILL--Andrew. The Board and staff of The Joyce Theater mourn the passing of Andrew Hill, jazz pianist, composer and beloved husband of Joanne. We are all the fortunate recipients of the great gifts of his music and spirit.       
 HOCH--Frank W. The Phelps Memorial Hospital Center community mourns the passing of long-time friend, Frank W. Hoch, who was associated with the Hospital since 1968. He served on The Phelps Board of Directors for 15 years, including a term as Chairman. He was instrumental in the planning and
 HOLLIS--Zachary. August 22, 1990-April 19, 2007. It is with deepest sorrow that the Board of Directors, Staff and Members of the Tourette Syndrome Association (TSA) mourn the passing of Zachary Hollis, who died tragically and suddenly in an automobile accident in Albuquerque, NM. A kind, ch
 HOSTETTER--Donald. Presbyterian pastor, church executive, and legendary pioneer in camping passed away peacefully on Easter Day, April 8, 2007. He is survived by his wife Joan, his sons Mark and Jonathan, five grandchildren, three stepchildren, and five stepgrandchildren. A memorial service
 MARKS--Charles Emmanuel Sr., an artist, died on April 17th. He was Born October 25th, 1917 to Alma and Clarence Marks of Philadelphia. He served as an aviator pilot in the Navy during World War II. Mr. Marks graduated from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, and lived most of his life in
 MEADE--Thomas A., Sarasota, FL, formerly of Lloyd Harbor, NY, and Manchester, VT, October 18, 1914 -April 13, 2007. He served as a Captain in the US Army during World War II, in the Pacific. He was corporate Vice President and Group Executive for AMF Bowling Products Group, retiring in 1980
 POPE--Leavitt J. Hartford friends mourn the passing of a wise leader who sparked the effort to renew the park donated by his great-grandfather Col. Albert Pope. Our condolences to his family. Nancy Macy, President Pope Hartford Fund Steve Mirsky, President Friends of Pope Park       
 PYNE--Eben W., 89, died April 11, 2007, at his home in Hobe Sound, Florida. A Service will be held on May 12 at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 182 Main St., Gladstone, NJ at 10:30 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Brooklyn Museum, Fort Ticonderoga, Juilliard School of Music
 RAEBURN--Robert A. The employees of Vanguard Industries wish to pay tribute to Robert A. Raeburn, who passed away on April 17, 2007 in New York. Mr. Raeburn was a friend, competitor, and business associate for over 50 years. He will be missed by all who knew him. He was a man of integrity, 
 RICHLAND--Irwin S., 96, Formerly of Riverdale, NY, Fort Lauderdale and Tamarac, FL, died peacefully in his sleep on Friday, April 20, in Weston, MA. After a 45 year advertising career with Richland Advertising in NYC serving the fashion industry, he continued in his beloved career in Florid
 SCHLYEN--Samuel, M.D., 84, on April 18, after a four year battle with multiple myeloma, which he bore with strength and dignity. Survived by Maxine, his devoted wife of 41 years, loving children James, Peter (Renee), Elisabeth Ashbes, Alison, Jenifer Salzberg (Mark), granddaughters Emilie a
 WILCOX--Antoinette, On April 9, 2007. Loving mother of Robert, Mary Ann Chiacchiaro and Judith (Howard) Mandell. Beloved grandmother of Peter Robert (Jennifer Chiacchiaro), Michele (Mitchell Irizarry), Keith Richard and Samantha Mandell, great-grandmother of Mayah, Malachi, Malina and Milo 
 PRETSFELDER--Ernest. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Inge and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft
 John R. Drexel III, scion of a powerful Philadelphia banking family and a prominent socialite in an era when the charity galas and debutante balls of the affluent dominated society-page headlines, died April 13 at his estate in Newport, R.I. He was 87. The cause was heart failure, h
 Otto Natzler, a ceramicist best known for inventing glazes resembling geologic textures and colors that he applied to forms created by his wife Gertrud in a famous collaboration of more than three decades, died on April 7 in Los Angeles. He was 99. The cause was cancer, said Darrel 
 ALFIN--Irwin (10/6/1929-4/19/ 2007). Irwin Alfin of Manhasset, NY, on April 19, 2007, at 77 years of age. Loving husband of Betsy. Cherished father of David and Susan. Devoted grandfather of David, Daniel, Dennis, Deborah, Emily and Kate. Irwin Alfin, a retired cosmetics and fragrance indus
 FEINBERG--Sidney. The law firm of Lazarus & Harris mourns the passing of our dear friend, mentor and partner, Sidney Feinberg. Sidney was an extraordinary entertainment lawyer, adored by his clients. He was truly one of a kind -razor sharp, a witty raconteur, elegant and a complete class ac
 FRIEDMAN--Irving. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant and past president. We extend to his entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensast, 
 HEARN--Thomas Michael Jr., of Hobe Sound, FL, and Upper Largo, Fife, Scotland, died on April 21, 2007, at the age of 82. He is survived by his wife, Helen; children, Thomas, Peter, David, Gail, and Edward; and six grandchildren. Following Naval service in the Pacific in World War II he retu
 JOLLON--Alfred J., age 78. Died peacefully on April 21, 2007 after a valiant struggle against cancer. A retired lawyer, Columbia Law School class of 1953, St. John's College, 1950. He served for many years as Special Counsel to the law firm of David Caiuby, Fernandes e Carvalho in Sao Paulo
 PYNE--Eben W., 89, died April 11, 2007, at his home in Hobe Sound, Florida. A Service will be held on May 12 at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 182 Main St., Gladstone, NJ at 10:30 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Brooklyn Museum, Fort Ticonderoga, Juilliard School of Music
 REIN--Herbert, 67, on April 21st. Beloved husband of Merle, loving father of Sebastian, Damon, and Aimee, grandfather of Jack, son of Rose, brother of Charles. An extraordinary man. A life teacher whose vitality and drive inspired everyone he touched. A New York City original, half of a kin
 ULTAN--Dr. Leslie Barry was born on November 12, 1934 in New York City as the second child and son to late parents Carl and Blanche. Dr. Ultan grew up in Bayside, New York with his parents and older brother, Lloyd, where he attended Bayside High School. After graduating with the Class of 19
 Parry O'Brien, who revolutionized shot-putting technique, won three Olympic medals (two gold) and became the first man to reach 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 feet, died Saturday during a masters swimming race in Santa Clarita, Calif. He was 75 and lived in Rancho Belago, Calif., west of Palm Spring
 Boris N. Yeltsin, the burly provincial politician who became a Soviet-era reformer and later a towering figure of his time as the first freely elected leader of Russia, presiding over the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the demise of the Communist Party, died yesterday in Moscow. He was
 David Halberstam, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and tireless author of books on topics as varied as America's military failings in Vietnam, the deaths of firefighters at the World Trade Center and the high-pressure world of professional basketball, was killed yesterday in a car crash 
 COPPEL--Irving G., age 76, of New York, NY, died at home on April 21, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, he graduated from Tulane Medical School and served residencies in Houston, San Francisco and Baltimore. After serving as faculty at the University of Illinois and a research fellow at Stanford Univ
 CORNELL--Richard D. Loving husband, father and friend, dedicated to his dental profession, Dr. Richard Cornell passed away Friday evening the 20th of April in peaceful surroundings in Palm Beach County, Florida. Born in Brooklyn October 8th, 1924, he attended the College of William & Mary, 
 DREXEL--John R., III. The Pilgrims of the US are saddened by the death of their former Treasurer and father of Executive Committee member, John R. Drexel IV. We convey our deepest sympathy to his family. Miner H. Warner, President Robin Chandler Duke, Treasurer L. Charles Windsor, Secretary
 FEINBERG--Sidney. Steadfast and loyal, always there for his friends. We miss him so and will never forget. Barbara Wainscott       
 FRIEDMAN--Irving. Kind, respected, visionary, mentor and patriarch. Devoted father of Bob and Micki, Bernie and Leslie. Loving grandfather of Deborah, Matthew, Teri, Michael, Monica, David and Rachel. We extend our heartfelt sympathy. Richie, Jeffrey and Scott $(6$)FRIEDMAN--Irving Our fami
 GARDNER--Milton M., M.D., a well-known obstetrician and gynecologist on Long Island, distinguished by his personal warmth, grace and elegance, died of natural causes at age 93 on April 22 in Glen Cove, NY. One of four children of Samuel and Bella Gardner, he was born on March 17, 1914 in Ne
 GILL--Captain Frank, 64, a native of Long Beach, N.Y., and a son of the late Arthur and Ruth Gill, on April 21, 2007, after a courageous battle with cancer. A Vietnam veteran who loved the sea, Frank was a great fisherman and pioneered surfing in Long Beach. He is survived by his sons Blake
 GOLD--Irving, 92, survived by his wife of 58 years, Judy (Fleminger), children Ron, Donna, grandson Daniel, all adored. Honored veteran, he crafted jewelry for presidents, royalty, Hollywood. To fight Nazism, he started Vanguard of Democracy. Donations to Hospice, 95 S. Broadway, White Plai
 GOLD--Neil Bernard, age 75 of Chatham Center, NY on April 23, 2007 at Albany, NY. Born in Brooklyn, he was a Specialist for the New York Stock Exchange. He is survived by his wife Joan (Levick) Gold, son Andrew Gold, daughter Sandy Sidoti (Michael), daughter-in-law Jill Gold, brother Mark. 
 HIRSCH--Rev. A. Asher. With profound sorrow the worldwide Shaare Zedek family mourns the loss of this righteous individual and true ''eved Hashem''. A man of great emunah and Torah wisdom who inspired us all, he over came personal heartbreak and loss to devote his life to alleviating the sp
 JACOBSON--Robert, 78, of Manhattan, Delray Beach, Smallwood, NY. Survived by his wife of 55 years, Elaine, his children, Sara, Shelly, and Andrew, his sons-in-law Perry Brandston and Peter Taylor and his grandchildren, Melody and Ted Brandston and Billy and Caroline Taylor. He was predeceas
 KANEE--Sol. Edgar M. Bronfman and the leadership of the World Jewish Congress, mourn the passing of Sol Kanee of Winnipeg, Canada, former chairman of the WJC Governing Board, who will be remembered for his decades of devoted service to Canada, Canadian Jewry and The World Jewish Congress.  
 REIN--Herb. To a beloved friend and mentor who gave so much and had so much more to give. He did it his way. We love and miss you. Joan and Aaron $(6$)REIN--Herbert. Our Class has lost one of our finest. Herb was the most loyal of friends who always opened his home and his heart to us. To M
 ROGOW--David. We are profoundly saddened by the passing of the beloved prominent actor, David Rogow. Our heartfelt condolences to his remarkably devoted wife, Nina. Hebrew Actors' Union       
 RUBIN--Elliott. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Elliott Rubin and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President       
 SCHIFF--Charles. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Caroline on the passing of our friend, neighbor and longtime Board Member. The Tenants/Shareholders and Staff of 565 Park Avenue       
 SMITH--Frank. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers note with great sadness the death of Frank Smith. Frank was a loyal supporter and a devoted and valued friend. We are truly grateful to have had his gentle counsel. We extend our deepest sympathy to his partner, Eas
 STRINGER--Ronald E. of New York City and Coconut Creek, FL, died on April 20, 2007. He is survived by his wife Sandra, sons David and Scott Stringer, stepdaughters Cynthia Zucker, Amy Gold and seven grandchildren. Counsel to New York City's Mayor, Abe Beam during the 1970's fiscal crisis, P
 WAGGER--Harold Jerome, passed away in Durham, NC on April 22, 2007 surrounded by his family. He was a WWII hero with a Silver Star and President of Kramer Office Furniture New York. He is survived by his loving wife Renee, children Michael, Lane and Rosanne, daughterin-law Vicki, granddaugh
 BERGSTEIN--Leonard. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow, the passing of our longtime member, Leonard Bergstein. We extend heart felt sympathy to his bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 PRETSFELDER--Ernest. The Pretsfelder family mourns the death of its beloved husband, father, and grandfather Ernest Pretsfelder. A loving family man of principle and honor who will be deeply missed, his indomitable spirit and integrity are an inspiration to those who knew and loved him, and
 SOKOLOFF--Lawrence, 88, on April 21st, 2007. Beloved by family and friends. Survived by his wife Phyllis Haas, children Judith and Paul, grandsons Daniel, Adam, and Jake, and his sister Sunny. Service Thursday 11am at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, Great Neck.       
 Michael Smuin, a choreographer who worked for major ballet companies and led his own, marshaling eclectic dance forms, robust athleticism and striking theatricality to create works that appealed to broad audiences, died yesterday in San Francisco. He was 68. The apparent cause was a
 ACKERMAN--Dr. Martin P. The Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Elmwood Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and friend, Dr. Martin P. Ackerman. We wish to express our deepest sympathies to his family.       
 CHILEWICH--Simon, long time resident of New York City passed away April 24th, 2007 at age 88. Simon was born in Poland, but soon after immigrating to his new country in 1939, he served in World War II as an army intelligence officer in the United States Army. Thereafter, he rejoined the fam
 DITKOWICH--Melvin, 74, of Boynton Beach, FL, and Rock Hill, NY. Beloved loving husband of Luba, his highschool sweetheart, the love of his life. Devoted father of Debra, David and Abbey, Daniel and Karen, Diane and Jeffrey. Loving grandfather to Arielle, Shana, Allie, Mariah, Melody, Charle
 FEINBERG--Sidney. Steadfast and loyal, always there for his friends. We miss him so and will never forget. Barbara Wainscott       
 FRIEDSON--Dr. Bernard, 89, of Jerusalem, formerly of Saratoga Springs, NY, and Delray Beach, FL, passed away on April 24, 2007. A decorated veteran of WWII, he participated in the liberation of Dachau. Upon his return, he married the love of his life, Ruth Kopolsky. In addition to practicin
 GOLD--Irving. Our hearts are saddened by the death of our kind and special friend, Irving. A wonderful human being of many talents and a master jeweler. Our sympathy to his beloved wife, Judy, children, Donna and Ron and grandson Daniel. Our love. Rita and Philip Rosen $(6$)GOLD--Irving. Th
 GOODWIN--Francis X. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our cousin Frank, a treasured member of our family. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his brothers, Bob, Dick, and their families. The Kissane Family       
 HALBERSTAM--David. All of his neighbors and the staff at 27 W 67th St. are saddened by the untimely loss of our dear friend, David Halberstam. We will miss his grand presence, his unique personality, his cleverness, wit and intelligence. Our hearts, love and prayers go to Jean and Julia. Bo
 KATZ--Jerome. On April 24, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Florence, cherished father of Alan and Joyce and Susan and Seth Truwit. Adored ''Pops'' of Marjorie, Brittany, Alison, Elana, Noah, and Jillian. His kindness, wisdom and wit will always be remembered. ''The Room would be quiet and
 LAURITA--Richard A. The members and employees of Geller Group, LLC, a member of Focus Financial Partners, wish to express their sorrow at the loss of Rich Laurita. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Rich, a giving, caring and fun loving colleague. We extend our sincerest condolences t
 NOLL--S. Darwin, 86, passed away peacefully at his home in Palm Beach, FL, on April 23rd, 2007, after a long illness. He was predeceased by his beloved wife, Evelyn, in 1992, and is survived by his devoted and cherished companion, Hazel Leichter Scott, a son, Ronald Noll, a daughter, Lauren
 ROSENTHAL--Robert (Bob), beloved husband of Phillis (Heller), devoted father of Peggy, Steven (Barbara), and Dan (Paula), loving grandfather of Joshua (Julie), Katie, Joanna, and Sam, adoring great-grandfather of Alexi and Madeleine. A retired lawyer and highly decorated WWII B-17 pilot. Di
 SCHIFF--Charles. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Caroline on the passing of our friend, neighbor and longtime Board Member. The Tenants/Shareholders and Staff of 565 Park Avenue       
 SIVIN--Bernard, 81, on April 22, 2007. Treasured husband of Shirley; beloved father of Barbara, Edward, and the late Lois, next to whom he now will rest; grandfather of David, Alana, Kai and Colin; and father-in-law of Maritza and Ronald. Words cannot do him justice.       
 STAHL--Jack, on April 23, 2007. Survived by his wife Elaine, daughters Shana (Daniel) and Zari (Steven), four grandchildren Jacey, Corey, Evan and Caden, brother George and sister Sylvia Krive. Funeral Service 9:30 AM Thursday, EdwardsDowdle Funeral Home, Dobbs Ferry (Exit 17 Saw Mill). Mem
 WAGGER--Harold. The loss of our friend and partner will sorely be missed. He was one of the good guys. Our heartfelt love and sympathy to his family. Phyllis and Gerry Lakow       
 WILLIAMS--Thomas H., Jr., after a brief illness on April 23rd. He is survived by his loving sister Claudia and cherished niece Barbara. Visiting Friday, 2-4 and 7-9, at John J. Fox Funeral Home, Larchmont, NY. Service Saturday, 11:00am, at Funeral Home.       
 PRETSFELDER--Ernest. The Pretsfelder family mourns the death of its beloved husband, father, and grandfather Ernest Pretsfelder. A loving family man of principle and honor who will be deeply missed, his indomitable spirit and integrity are an inspiration to those who knew and loved him, and
 Paul E. Erdman, a writer of best-selling novels of financial intrigue who began his literary career in the comfort of a Swiss jail, where he was being held in connection with the collapse of the Swiss bank he ran, died on Monday at his ranch in Healdsburg, Calif. He was 74. The caus
 Warren E. Avis, a Michigan car dealership owner who, frustrated at waiting for taxis outside airports, founded a chain of car rental agencies and turned it into the nation's second biggest, died yesterday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 92. Mr. Avis's death was confirmed by h
 Alan Ball, a crafty 5-foot-6 soccer midfielder who at 21 was the youngest member of the team that won England its only World Cup, in 1966, died yesterday in Warsash, Hampshire. He was 61. Ball collapsed in his garden during the night while trying to put out a compost heap fire and a
 Bohdan Paczynski, a leading astrophysicist whose unconventional ideas led to new methods of studying distant stars and hidden planets, including a sweeping nightly survey of the entire sky, died last Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 67. The cause was brain cancer, said
 Dr. James R. Richards, a prominent veterinarian who was a recognized authority on cat care, died on Tuesday in Johnson City, N.Y. He was 58 and lived in Dryden, N.Y. Dr. Richards died of injuries he sustained in a motorcycle accident on Sunday. According to Sgt. Kelly Daley of the N
 BAREISS--Walter, was not only a passionate collector with a remarkable eye for art, he was also an exceptional human being with an eye for people he could help along the way. With his unceasingly gracious and caring wife, the late Molly Stimson Bareiss, he touched and transformed the lives 
 FALK--Paul, born July 21, 1922, passed away at Woodside Hospice, Pinellas Park, FL, on Wednesday, April 25, 2007 at the age of 84. The adored husband of June, celebrating their 60th anniversary on Thanksgiving Day 2006. He was the cherished son of the late David and Ray Falk; beloved brothe
 FORTE--Michael J., 56, of New Canaan, died Thursday, April 19, 2007, peacefully, with his loving wife at his side, at the Richard Rosenthal Hospice Residence in Stamford. He was born on May 28, 1950, in St. Louis, MO, the son of Joseph and Dorothy Graham Forte of Ellsworth, PA. Mike receive
 GURIAN--Elias on April 25, 2007 in his 91st year. Devoted and beloved husband and friend of Lil (Leah) for 65 years. Father of Stephen, Bonny and Marvin Rosen, Donald and Karen Gurian. Grandfather of Alyson and Steven Justman, Melanie and Robert Gallucci, Justin Gurian, Ariel Gurian. Greatg
 HALBERSTAM--David. The International Center of Photography Staff and Board mourn the death of David Halberstam and extend our sincere condolences to his family. His impact on our world was substantial and for all our benefit. Willis E. Hartshorn, Director Cornell Capa, Founding Director Eme
 KATZ--Ken, passed away at home in Jamaica Estates, NY on April 18, 2007 at age 61 after a noble and courageous battle with cancer. Son of Belle and the late Joseph Katz, Ken was a devoted school psychologist at West Hempstead High School, where he worked with Special Education students. A p
 LAURITA--Richard A. The members and employees of Geller Group, LLC, a member of Focus Financial Partners, wish to express their sorrow at the loss of Rich Laurita. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Rich, a giving, caring and fun loving colleague. We extend our sincerest condolences t
 LEVERE--Dr. Richard D., age 75, of Marietta, died of heart failure April 23, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, he graduated SUNY Downstate Medical School in 1956 and completed his internship and residency at Bellevue and Kings County Hospitals. After serving his country in the armed services, Dr. Lev
 PARKER--Edward H., 91, of Wantagh, NY died peacefully on April 22, 2007. He was born on January 28, 1916 in NYC to the late Augusta Nichols and Edward Parker. In September 1938 he married Lillian McCleery at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church. She predeceased him in 1996. He married Margare
 RYAN--William J., passed away on April 25, 2007. He was 77 years old. Mr. Ryan is survived by his wife Patricia. Beloved father of Patricia Antonelle, William Paul, Robert and the late Edward Ryan. Also surviving are 13 grandchildren. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, 10am, Our Lady of Fat
 SCHACTER--Herbert. The Partners and members of the firm of Needleman & Schacter, LLP mourn the loss of their partner. He was an inspiration to all the members of the firm and always offered thoughtful advice to the clients. We want to express our deep regrets to his wife Barbara, sons Ira, 
 Jack Valenti, who became a confidant of President Lyndon B. Johnson and then a Hollywood institution, leading the Motion Picture Association of America and devising a voluntary film-rating system that gave new meaning to letters like G, R and X, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He 
 BAREISS--Walter. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the death of Walter Bareiss. A businessman, collector, and passionate art lover, Walter was a longstanding friend of the Museum. He joined the Museums Junior Council in 1949 and would go on to serve as Trustee from 19
 GURIAN--Elias on April 25, 2007 in his 91st year. Devoted and beloved husband and friend of Lil (Leah) for 65 years. Father of Stephen, Bonny and Marvin Rosen, Donald and Karen Gurian. Grandfather of Alyson and Steven Justman, Melanie and Robert Gallucci, Justin Gurian, Ariel Gurian. Greatg
 HALBERSTAM--David. His family and friends wish to express heartfelt gratitude to all those who mourn his untimely death. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, June 12 at 4:00pm in Riverside Church (490 Riverside Dr. at 121st Street), Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be ma
 SCHINDLER--Mark, on April 24, 2007. Loving companion and best friend. He brought laughter and joy to all he met. His strength of character, integrity and devotion were unsurpassed. His uncanny memory for trivia and all sorts of facts was unrivaled. Our every day together will be a treasured
 SHAFFER--Martin. Union Temple of Brooklyn mourns the loss of our beloved Vice President, Vice President of our Brotherhood and Cochair of the Building Committee. May his memory serve as an eternal blessing. Service 11:15am Sunday, from Union Temple of Brooklyn, 17 Eastern Pkwy, Brooklyn, NY
 SMUIN--Michael. The Board and staff of The Joyce Theater mourn the passing of Michael Smuin, a talented choreographer and master showman. In ballet and on Broadway, he enthralled audiences from coast to coast. We offer our sincere condolences to his family, and the Smuin Ballet company.    
 Walter Bareiss, a businessman who amassed vast collections of African, Western classical and contemporary art, much of which found homes in museums, died on Monday in Stamford, Conn. He was 87. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Hugh said. Mr. Bareiss (pronounce
 William B. Lawless Jr., a former justice of the New York State Supreme Court and dean of the University of Notre Dame School of Law, died Monday near his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 84. The cause was complications of diabetes, his daughter Therese said. Mr. Lawless was
 James B. Davis, the leader of the Dixie Hummingbirds, one of the longest-lasting and most influential groups in gospel music, died on April 17 in Philadelphia. He was 90 and lived in Philadelphia. His death was announced by the group. Mr. Davis was 12 when he started the gro
 Mstislav Rostropovich, the cellist and conductor who was renowned not only as one of the great instrumentalists of the 20th century but also as an outspoken champion of artistic freedom in the Soviet Union during the last decades of the cold war, died yesterday in Moscow. He was 80 and live
 BRESLAU--Martin, age 84, of Delray Beach, FL; formerly of Valley Stream and Woodbury, NY; Passed on April 24, 2007 from heart failure. Devoted husband to the late Rita, beloved father of Bruce, Allen, Carol, father-in-law to Howard, Eric and Marilynn, grandfather to Blake, Spencer, and Jake
 CAPORALE--Ralph Jr., March 12, 1917-April 24, 2007. WWII Veteran. Inspirational Educator and Civic Leader. Adjunct Professor, Hunter College; Principal, IS 51 Staten Island; Principal, PS 208 Manhattan; Assistant Principal Francis Scott Key JHS, Brooklyn; Math teacher Galvani JHS Manhattan;
 DANIEL--John E., born in Yonkers, NY, January 15, 1948. Son of deceased immigrant parents from Czechoslovakia, Emrich Daniel and Anna Behun Daniel. Brother of deceased Zlata Daniel Zidik. Survived by his beloved wife Janet Nolan, nephew John Zidik (Christine), and niece Jana Zidik Krieger. 
 HALBERSTAM--David. His family and friends wish to express heartfelt gratitude to all those who mourn his untimely death. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, June 12 at 4:00pm in Riverside Church (490 Riverside Dr. at 121st Street), Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be ma
 SCHIFF--Charles R., 88, a longtime resident of New York, died April 21, 2007. He was the husband of Carolyn (Sydell) Schiff. Born in Spring Lake, New Jersey, he was a son of the late Harry and Rachel (Salzman) Schiff. Mr. Schiff was a graduate of New York University and an owner of the form
 VALENTI--Jack. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Aspen Institute mourn the loss of our friend and valued Board member Jack Valenti. Mr. Valenti joined the Aspen Institute Board in 2002, working on program and marketing strategies. He was treasured for his political savvy and inimitable
 ALLER--Frank W., May 9, 1947 -Sept. 12, 1971. Service in Honor of his 60th Birthday, May 10, 3pm at OPC Spokane Valley, WA. Read and share at frank60.wordpress.com       
 ACKERMAN--Dr. Martin P., 80, died April 24, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Kitty, father of Linda (Alice) and David (Cassie), stepfather of Lori and Jayni, grandfather of Grant and Grace, and stepgrandfather of Irene and Jordan. Captain, United States Air Force, Dental Corps 19491952. Pr
 BACON--Dr. Isaac. The Yeshiva University family deeply mourns the passing of Dr. Isaac Bacon, who served for 18 years as the fourth dean of Yeshiva College. The fatherin-law of Dr. Karen Bacon, The Dr. Monique C. Katz Dean of YU's Stern College for Women, he was a linguistic specialist and 
 BALL--Dr. Eugene R., died April 25, 2007, age 84. He had a private practice in dentistry and was a Associate Attending Dental Surgeon at St. Luke's Hospital. He served as a US Navy officer in the Pacific during World War II. He was a Fellow of the American College of Dentists. He was a memb
 CAPORALE--Ralph Jr., March 12, 1917-April 24, 2007. WWII Veteran. Inspirational Educator and Civic Leader. Adjunct Professor, Hunter College; Principal, IS 51 Staten Island; Principal, PS 208 Manhattan; Assistant Principal Francis Scott Key JHS, Brooklyn; Math teacher Galvani JHS Manhattan;
 DANIEL--John E., born in Yonkers, NY, January 15, 1948. Son of deceased immigrant parents from Czechoslovakia, Emrich Daniel and Anna Behun Daniel. Brother of deceased Zlata Daniel Zidik. Survived by his beloved wife Janet Nolan, nephew John Zidik (Christine), and niece Jana Zidik Krieger. 
 DARLINGTON--Thomas, longtime Short Hills resident, died Wednesday, March 14th, 2007 at the Brevard Hospice Care Center in Rockledge, FL. Born in Manhattan, he lived in Short Hills for 47 years and has been in Palm Bay, FL for the past year. Mr. Darlington was a retired stock broker. He serv
 DIANA--Ronald S., 76, of Brookline, MA and Mt. Desert, ME, formerly of Mendham, NJ, died April 16 in Boston. Born May 9, 1930 in Plainfield, NJ. Surviving are his wife, Alix, his children, Alexander, Christopher, Nini and Kate, their spouses Liz, Nye, Timothy and Patrick, and three granddau
 EMERY--John C., Jr., of New Canaan, CT on April 19, 2007. Retired Chairman of the Board and CEO of Emery Air Freight, a company created by his father. Husband of Fran, father of John Emery, Michael Emery, Ann Emery, Susan Quinby and Tricia McGean. Grandfather of seven. Services will be held
 HALBERSTAM--David. His family and friends wish to express heartfelt gratitude to all those who mourn his untimely death. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, June 12 at 4:00pm in Riverside Church (490 Riverside Dr. at 121st Street), Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be ma
 HASHMALL--Frank, 87. Born in Manhattan. City College graduate,1940. Pratt Institute graduate with Honors, 1962. President of L.M. Rabinowitz Company until retirement at 75. Married 65 years to Sylvia Deutsch who predeceased him in September 2005. Loved politics, history, classical music and
 KAYE--Bernard, 85, died from complications of diabetes and Alzheimer's. Born in Brooklyn, the son of Bessie and Morris Kabikow, he grew up in impoverished circumstances. His entire emotional life was colored by the hardships of his childhood. His family found the challenge of raising their 
 ORLAND--Paul I., 95, a 1933 graduate of the NYU School of Commerce, passed away on Wednesday, April 25. Beloved husband for 62 years of the late Helen Kurtz Orland. Survived by his loving children Laura (Franklin) Adler and Malcolm (Andrea) Orland and cherished grandchildren Amy and Gabriel
 RAPAPORT--Harold, April 11, 1922-April 25, 2007, 85. Beloved father of Hannah and Martin, father-in-law of Baba Salia and Carol Rapaport, adored grandfather of Rachel and Mariama Salia and Molly, Owen, Emmett, and Maggie Rapaport. Beloved brother-in-law of Florence, brother of Marlene, uncl
 RUSH--Burton Carlin, 89, native of Brooklyn and resident of Briar Cliff and Ossining, NY, died March 22. He is survived by his beloved wife, Betsy; four children, Peter, Timothy, Barney and Lucy; and six grandchildren. A rememberance will be held May 13 at The Writers' Center, Sleepy Hollow
 SCHACTER--Herbert, age 79 died on April 24, 2007. Beloved husband and best friend of Barbara; loving and devoted father of Ira and his wife Janice, Alan and his wife Sherri and Howard and his girlfriend Deena; and doting ''Papa'' to Michael, Matthew, Arielle and Jared, his adored grandchild
 SZOGYI--Alex, esteemed professor, devoted friend and dear mentor. He brought the world of George Sand to light and to life. Natalie Datlof: Merrick, NY $(6$)SZOGYI--Alex (1929 - 2007), who served as chairperson of Hunter College's Romance Language Department for seven years left us on Monda
 TEWKSBURY--Willard G. Kluge died at home on Friday April 20, 2007. He was 82. Born in Philadelphia on September 18, 1924 to the late Willard and Alice (Perry) Kluge, he lived in Montclair for 72 years before moving to Tewksbury 10 years ago. He was the president and CEO of the textiles firm
 VALENTI--Jack. The Board and staff of Save the Children mourn the passing of our wonderful friend, supporter and board member, Jack Valenti. Known to most for his 38 years as visionary CEO of the Motion Picture Association of America, and as press officer in President Johnson's White House,
 WADLER--Dr. Scott, of Larchmont, NY oncologist at Cornell Weill New York Presbyterian Hospital died peacefully on April 28th at Calvary Hospital after a long illness. He leaves his adoring wife Ronni, and his wonderful son Jonas Gabriel Wadler and daughter Zoe Alexis Schaeffer and son-in-la
 WIENER--Ernest Guest, 91, died peacefully in his sleep, surrounded by his family, on April 10th, 2007. He was in hospice care for liver cancer and lived with his daughter, Ann, in Riverside, California for his last five months. Born in Pilzen, he left Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia in Februar
 WRIGHT--William H. The entire Continuum Health Partners community acknowledges with sadness the passing of Dr. William H. Wright, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague William H. Wright II, a member of the Continuum Board of Trustees and Chairman of the Board's Credentials Committ
 ROSTROPOVICH--Mstislav. On behalf of America's orchestras, the American Symphony Orchestra League mourns the loss of Mstislav Rostropovich, inspirational musician, passionate advocate of music, humanitarian, and friend, whose vitality will be missed by all. Henry Fogel President & CEO $(6$)
 WENDLINGER--Robert I. (April 11, 1922-April 27, 2007). Award-winning newspaper photographer, nominated for PulitzerPrize in photography, WWII veteran. Will be remembered lovingly by his companion Shirley Kurtzberg, his children Patti and Steve Rosen, Ronald and Elaine Wendlinger, his sister
 ALLER--Frank W., May 9, 1947 -Sept. 12, 1971. Service in Honor of his 60th Birthday, May 10, 3pm at OPC Spokane Valley, WA. Read and share at frank60.wordpress.com       
 GUSSOW--Mel, April 29, 2005. With love and remembrance, we miss you everyday. his Family       
 Robert Rosenthal, a highly decorated pilot in World War II who helped usher in a new kind of warfare, the strategic bombing of Germany, in which huge bombers scraped the ice-cold stratosphere while serving as easy targets for enemy fighters and ground guns, died on April 20 in White Plains.
 Joseph J. M. Saleh, a film producer and real estate investor who took over what had been the underground powerhouse for Manhattan's short-lived cable car system and converted it into the Angelika Film Center, a cultural hub in Lower Manhattan, died April 18 near his home outside Paris. He w
 Michael Malone, a tattoo artist renowned among his peers for helping to popularize and standardize tattooing through the vivid images of dragons, daggers, cartoon characters and crests that he distributed to tattoo parlors around the world, died on April 17 at his home in Chicago. He was 64
 BALL--Dr. Eugene R., died April 25, 2007, age 84. He had a private practice in dentistry and was a Associate Attending Dental Surgeon at St. Luke's Hospital. He served as a US Navy officer in the Pacific during World War II. He was a Fellow of the American College of Dentists. He was a memb
 GARY--Raymond Bedros, Age 78 died peacefully on Saturday, April 28, 2007 after a short illness. He was the beloved husband of Prudence Gibb Gary for 36 years and the adored father of their daughter Amelia Mai Gary. He is also survived by his brother Captain Stanley Platt Gary and his family
 HALBERSTAM--David. The Brearley School community deeply mourns the passing of David Halberstam, a Brearley past parent, former Trustee and great friend of the School. We extend our profound sympathies to his family.       
 JOSEPH--Richard V., 51, of Manhattan, passed away on April 26th at home, after a long and courageous struggle with brain cancer. Richard was born in Chicago. He attended high school in Tarrytown, NY, and moved to NYC at the age of 19. In his heart, he always was and always will be a City gu
 PERESS--Fahmi Moshi, beloved uncle, in his 90s at home on April 26 in Fort Lauderdale. Baghdad-born businessman, US Army Sergeant in World War II, the last surviving grandson of Heskel Ezra Peress and Salha Rahmin Masri the Babylonian Jewish progenitors of our proud far-flung family spread 
 SCHULTZ--Rev. Dr. John Frederick, 63, died Friday. He graduated from University of North Carolina and served in the Peace Corps in Nigeria. He completed his M.Div. at Union Theological Seminary and Ph.D. at Columbia. He worked for Church World Service from 1974-1990. He was ordained a Presb
 SZOGYI--Alex. The National Board of Review of Motion Pictures mourns the loss of dear Friend and member, Professor Alex Szogyi, and extends condolences to his life partner, Philip Thompson. Annie Shulhof President       
 WEINSIER--Philip, April 28, 2007, age 91, at home and, as always, with class. Handsome, beloved husband of the late Joan Tuby Weinsier, cherished and treasured father of Michael Weinsier (Marcy) and Wendy Segal (Danny) and loving and adored grandfather of Matthew and Jacqueline. Sweet, kind
