 Former Senator Alan Cranston of California, who balanced the roles of crusader and behind-the-scenes deal-maker during a long political career until he was brought down by the savings and loan scandal of the late 1980's, died yesterday at the age of 86. Mr. Cranston, a Democrat who 
 Julius J. Epstein, a screenwriter of sharp, sardonic dialogue who won an Academy Award for the script of ''Casablanca,'' died here on Saturday. He was 91. Mr. Epstein wrote more than 50 movies in a 50-year career. He and his identical twin, Philip, were responsible for the wit and c
 FISCHMAN-DeWitt. 83, resident of Tucson, AZ, since 1981, passed away on December 27, 2000, in Tucson. He was born on July 29, 1917, in New York, and was a former resident of Scarsdale, NY. Services to be held in Tucson, Arizona, Evergreen Mortuary & Cemetery, 3015 N. Oracle Rd, Tucson, AZ 8
 HARRISON-Milton S. A resident of Briarcliff Manor, died December 30th at the age of 94. Predeceased by his first wife Joan, his second wife Marjorie and his third wife Barbara. Survivors include two sons Michael and Joseph Harrison, his step-children Peter and Ellen Abrams, Emily Loeb and N
 PAPPAS-Peter J. On Friday, December 29, 2000 of New York, NY. Beloved partner of Robert J. Murphy, Jr., loving son of Anne Gleason, brother of Deborah Cambra and Michael Paul and John Pappas, also survived by many nieces, nephews and cousins. Friends may call at Walter B. Cooke Funeral Home
 PORETTA-James William. Age 48, of Route 23A, Palenville, died Thursday evening, December 28, 2000, at home, after a long illness. He was born August 14, 1952, in Philipsburg, NJ, the son of Mary Bracken of Philipsburg, NJ, and the late Joseph Poretta. Mr. Poretta earned his BA in English fr
 SCHUSTERMAN - Charles. The Hillel family extends its profound sympathies to our dear friend Lynn Schusterman and her family on the tragic passing of her beloved partner Charles. Charles, the co-chair of Hillel's International Board of Governors, was a philanthropic visionary who believed pa
 SPIEGEL-James I. Passed away on December 30, 2000, in Stamford, CT. Beloved husband of Everne Spiegel. Loving father of Stuart, Kenneth and Diane Sorcher and Karen Spiegel. Cherished grandfather of six grandchildren. Mr. Spiegel leaves behind a family forever inspired by his show of strengt
 WOLFE-Louis. Beloved husband of Emily, devoted father of Barbara and Don (Melvin), Debbie and Frank Babbitt, adoring grandfather to Jaime, Jennifer and Lindsay. He will be missed forever.       
 Al Gross, also known as Phineas Thaddeus Veeblefetzer, granddaddy of citizens' band radio, who tinkered with all manner of electronic gear before people just had to have them, died on Dec. 21 at a hospice in Sun City, Ariz., his hometown. He was 82. Mr. Gross died after a brief illn
 Lord Aldington, a British politician and an executive who won the highest libel damages ever awarded by a British court in his suit against a great-nephew of the Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy, died on Dec. 7 at his home in southern England. He was 86. Lord Aldington's long dispute wi
 ADOLF-Max. Congregation Orach Chaim records with profound sorrow the passing of Max Adolf, of blessed memory. We express our sincere condolences to his wife Sondra, to his sons, our devoted member and former trustee Larry (and Amy), Steven (and Debbie), Ronnie, and to his beloved sisters an
 BANK-Rheta. Passed away at age 67 on January 1 at home. Beloved mother of Matthew and his companion Peter Hemmel, a sister of Eugene Laska and his wife Estelle, daughter of David Laska and aunt of Lori Sumberg, Jeffery Laska and Mark Laska. Funeral services will be held at Larchmont Temple,
 BETTMANN-James J. Of Williston, VT, died peacefully on Saturday, December 30, 2000; beloved husband of Beverley, devoted father of Jessica Pack and Joen Bettmann. Alumnus of Columbia Grammer School 1936, and Cornell University 1940, also member of the Herringbone Ski Club. He was predecease
 DUNHAM-Donald Carl. On December 31 in New York City. Born Columbus, OH, August 30, 1908. He is survived by his wife Florence Atkins Ross, a stepson Robert Ross and three grandchildren Andrea, Charlotte and Christopher Ross.       
 GELLERT-Peter Joseph. Died on Dec. 23, 2000 from complications resulting from aplastic anemia. Born on August 6, 1926 to Greta (Petschek) Gellert and Oswald R. Gellert in Prague, Czechoslovakia, he attended The Lawrenceville School, Harvard College, and Yale Law School. He served in the US 
 KAMINSKY-Wallace. Architect. Collector. Life long and passionate New Yorker. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Columbia University School of Architecture, Wally practiced in Manhattan for forty years. He specialized in projects for educational institutions and for organizations serving low
 LANDMAN-Sidney James. Customer Service Representative for Villeroy and Boch in New York and a retired professor of English Literature, died in his apartment in Park Slope, Brooklyn, December 18. He was 66. Born August 5, 1934, in Fort Worth, Texas, he was the only son of Sidney Landman and 
 RUSSELL-John S. Jr. At age 83, of Scarborough, New York, and Center Harbor, NH, died Saturday, Dec. 30, 2000. Beloved husband of 59 years of Betty. Loving and devoted father of Patricia Russell, David K. Russell and the late John S. Russell III. Proud grandfather of Robin Rock Bintinger, Sa
 SARNOFF-Arthur T. We mourn the loss of our beloved husband, father and grandfather at 90. He had a twinkle to the end. Lately of Easton, PA., & previously of Westport, CT., and Palm Beach, FL, he leaves his wife of 64 years, Barbara, his daughter Elizabeth Burrell of Toronto & his daughter 
 SHUFORD-Adrian Lafayette Jr., 90, industrialist and philanthropist, died Saturday. A former NC State senator, county commission chairman and town mayor, his career in the manufacture of socks, gloves, and abrasive equipment spanned most of the 20th century. Shuford, who maintained a residen
 SPIEGEL-James I. Passed away on December 30, 2000, in Stamford, CT. Beloved husband of Everne Spiegel. Loving father of Stuart, Kenneth and Diane Sorcher and Karen Spiegel. Cherished grandfather of six grandchildren. Mr. Spiegel leaves behind a family forever inspired by his show of strengt
 WYNN-Milton. Died Jan. 1, 2001, at the age of 90. Son of Max and Sarah and brother of Henry and Harold. Beloved husband of Ruth Bass, all deceased. Revered father of Richard Wynn and Joan Flum. Cherished father-in-law of Joan. Adored grandfather of Stephanie, Joshua, Andrew and Alexander. A
 William Francis Donnelly, a second-generation newspaperman who helped build the Army Times Publishing Company and the Times-Journal Company into the nation's largest publisher of military newspapers, died today at his home in Potomac, Md., a Washington suburb. He was 76. The cause w
 Dr. Arnold A. Hutschnecker, who for many years served as Richard M. Nixon's psychotherapist and who once said that Nixon ''didn't have a serious psychiatric diagnosis'' but  had ''a good portion of neurotic symptoms,'' died on Thursday at his home in Sherman, Conn. He was 102. Dr. H
 BERLER-Herman ''Hy'', on January 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Lillian. Devoted father of Ellen and the late Andrew. Dear brother of Fay Dreispan. He will be missed. Funeral services Thursday, 2PM, Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd. at 76 Rd., Forest Hills.       
 BIRNBERG - Monroe (Monte). Ageless-dearly beloved soul mate of Ann Andersen-Birnberg, father to Jeffrey, Vicki, Jill and Jackie; grandfather to Spencer, Erika, Samantha, Michael, Ashley and Jonathan; great-grandfather to Julian and Jonah departed this life on December 30, 2000 after a three
 BLANCHARD-Peter P., Jr. September 6, 1912 to December 26, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Adelaide Frick Blanchard, devoted father of Peter P. Blanchard, III, caring brother of Pye Johnson and the late Libby Kirkland. A graduate of the Gilman School, Princeton University and Yale Law Scho
 DeFILLIPIS-Conrad Maestro. A great loss has occurred not only in the music world but in the world of healing. His friends and his colleagues will surely miss but never forget this incredible friend and phenomenal person. Great love and respect. Blue Records Anesthesia of Orange Northern New
 FELDMAN - Harold Lawrence. Loving husband, father and grandfather. We will treasure his memory. Flo, Cheryl and Jay Feldman, Steve Ebner, Josie Etheart, Gabriel,Kira, Nina and Rebecca.       
 INSALL-John, M.D. The Beth Israel Medical Center family and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, join with the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery in acknowledging with sadness the death of John Insall, M.D., founder and co-director of the Insall Scott Kelly Institute for Orthopaedi
 JORDAN-Mark G. Died January 1, 2001. Loving son of David and Gladys. Brother of Robert, Alan and Daniel of blessed memory. JORDAN-Mark. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community. He was the beloved son of Gladys L. and the late Dr
 KAUFMAN-Joe. Died at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan, January 1, 2001, at age 89, of complications from Alzheimer's Disease. An award-winning illustrator and author of Golden Books for children, Joe leaves his wife Evalyn of Manhattan; a sister, Mollie Kozlowski of Florida; a firs
 LEVY-Steven J. Passed away suddenly at his home on December 31, 2000. He was 34 years old. He is survived by his parents Herb and Ina Levy, his brothers Jeffrey and Aaron Levy, and his sister Debra Bank. For further information, please call Hellman Memorial Chapels, 845-356-8600.       
 MURDOCK-Lewis C. Of Peapack, NJ, on December 31, 2000 after a long illness. Survived by his wife Madeleine H. Murdock and his three daughters, Catherine C., Pamela H. and Frances N. Memorial service Monday January 8 at 11AM at St. Luke's Church, Gladstone, NJ. In lieu of flowers, contributi
 RAMIREZ-Judge Gilbert. The family of Judge Gilbert Ramirez, retired State Supreme Court Justice, husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle and friend sadly announces his passing on December 23, 2000. He died in Aventura, FL of complications from Alzheimer's and non-Hodgkins Lymphoma.    
 SAGER-Frederick J., 91. Retired V.P. Treasurer RCA Communications, died at home in Allentown, PA., on December 30. Survived by his wife Gloria (Murray-Reills); stepson Gregory Reills, his wife (Rosemary Walsh) grandchildren Sean and Lauren; nieces and nephews. Mass of Christian Burial Frida
 SCHUSTERMAN-Charles. The Officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of United Jewish Communities mourn the passing of Charles Schusterman, whose lifelong involvement in philanthropy on so many fronts touched countless lives the world over. A true visionary, Charles' leadership was evident in fu
 STREMEL-J. Michael. Age 34. Died in Manhattan early on New Year's morning, after a long battle with AIDS. Stremel served as Fox Searchlight's Vice President in charge of East Coast Production, where he was the executive behind the Academy Award-winning ''Boys Don't Cry'', ''Whiteboys'' and 
 WASSERMAN-Ethel C. The Board of Trustees and members of Central Synagogue of New York City extend our condolences to our President Sam Wasserman and his family on the death of his mother Ethel. Cared for by a devoted son and family, Ethel's memory is carried forth as a blessing for us all. 
 Ray Walston, who won a Tony Award for playing the Devil opposite Gwen Verdon in the Broadway musical ''Damn Yankees,'' repeated his role in the film version and went on to a long career playing eccentric, oddly endearing characters in movies and on television, died on Monday at his home in 
 Charlie Lourie, a co-founder of the  jazz reissue label Mosaic, died on Sunday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 60. Michael Cuscuna, his partner at Mosaic, said Mr. Lourie had been suffering from scleroderma, a rare viral disease, for the last three years. Mosaic, start
 Harold Burroughs Rhodes, who invented an electric piano that became indispensable to jazz, funk and pop musicians, died on Dec. 17 in Los Angeles. He was 89. Mr. Rhodes's instrument, which was manufactured by Fender as the Fender Rhodes piano, used a pianolike keyboard, responsive t
 Jose Greco, who brought Spanish dancing to huge new audiences in the United States and Europe in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sunday at his home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 82. Born in Italy and raised in Brooklyn, Mr. Greco came to embody the art of Spanish dancing for many, in perfor
 Lionel Hebert, who joined with Jay Hebert to form one of golf's leading brother combinations, each of them winners of the P.G.A. Championship, died on Saturday at his home in Lafayette, La. He was 72. He had congestive heart failure, diabetes and kidney problems, his wife, Clara Bel
 Marty Glickman, who always believed he was denied a chance to compete in the 1936 Berlin Olympics because of anti-Semitism but later became the pre-eminent radio voice in New York sports, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. He died from complications after
 BLANCHARD-Peter P., Jr. September 6, 1912 to December 26, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Adelaide Frick Blanchard, devoted father of Peter P. Blanchard, III, caring brother of Pye Johnson and the late Libby Kirkland. A graduate of the Gilman School, Princeton University and Yale Law Scho
 FESHBACH-Herman. It is with deep sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the death of Herman Fesbach, Institute Professor Emeritus at MIT and President of the Academy from 1982-1986. A renowned theoretical physicist and a leader in the development of nuclear reaction th
 GANTZ-Harry W., on January 2, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Dear father of Ronald, Bruce and William Gantz and Judy Jacobs. Loving grandfather and great-grandfather. Funeral services are on Friday, January 5, 2001, at 1 PM, at the Congregation Kneses Tifereth Israel, 575 King S
 GELBART-David. Poet and Scholar. Loving husband of Marion, cherished father of Karen and Laurie, dear father-in-law of Peter and Larry, beloved grandfather of Julie, Benjamin and Jacob, died January 3, 2001, at age 83. Services on Thursday, January 4 at 11:30AM at Riverside-Nassau North Cha
 GREGORY-Chon, 73, Chappaqua, NY. Beloved father of Susan, Judith and Pamela and loving grandfather of Patrick, Molly, Dorothy and Solomon, died peacefully on Sunday, December 31, 2000. His cherished wife Dorothy died on December 9, 2000. A memorial service to honor Chon and Dorothy will be 
 HART-F. David. Of Saddle River, New Jersey, entered into eternal rest on December 22, 2000. He was a graduate of Lafayette College with a BS in Chemical Engineering. He had been a past employee of Mobil Oil, IBM, and since his retirement Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage in Saddle River
 HASNAS-Ben. Died peacefully at home January 3, 2001 in his 91st year. He is survived by his beloved wife Rose and son Bruce, daughter Pepi, son-in-law Albert, six grandchildren Russell, Marshall, Rebecca, Monica, Joshua and Daniel and five great grandchildren Brian, Daniel, Melanie, Caleb, 
 HEIMER-Winn. On January 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Adele, beloved husband of Gertrude (d. 1993). Dear father of Sandra, Marian, Owen and Diane, loving stepfather of Tarak, Richard and Carole, loving grandfather of Sharon, Ben, Adrienne, Ethan, Jordan, Zoe, Jacob and Gail, loving brother of
 INSALL-John, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of John Insall, M.D. As a former member of the Attending Staff at HSS, he provided the very finest in orthopedic care. Renowned for his groundbr
 KAUFMAN-Joe. The officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Joe Kaufman. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 LANDON-Gardner F. Delray Beach, Florida, and Lake Placid, N.Y. died at his home on Monday, January 1, 2001. He was born in Washington, D.C. on August 6, 1916, the son of Chauncey L. Landon and Jane Gardner Landon. On December 25, 1941, he married Dorothy A. Dodge, who predeceased him in 199
 MURDOCK-Lewis C. Of Peapack, NJ, on December 31, 2000 after a long illness. Survived by his wife Madeleine H. Murdock and his three daughters, Catherine C., Pamela H. and Frances N. Memorial service Monday January 8 at 11AM at St. Luke's Church, Gladstone, NJ. In lieu of flowers, contributi
 NELSON-Peter Dowd. On January 2, 2001. Beloved and best friend of Bette. Loving and devoted father of Michael. Father-in-law of Jennifer. Adoring grandfather of Jake and Katharine. Close brother of Robert and John and sisters-inlaw Lyntha and Eileen. Commercial real estate broker, executive
 ROGERS-William P. The partners, attorneys and staff of Clifford Chance Rogers & Wells honor the memory of our senior partner and dear friend, William P. Rogers. He was a statesman and mentor who embodied the hightest standards of ethics and leadership both to our nation and our firm. He wil
 SAMMIS-Frederick R. Of Darien, CT on December 31, 2000. Husband of Sadie Colligan Sammis. Father of John T. Sammis and Kathy Sammis. A Mass of Christian Burial will he held at St. Thomas More R.C. Church, 374 Middlesex Road, Darien, CT on Friday, January 5, 2001 at 11:00 AM. Interment will 
 SHOPKORN-David A. January 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Charlotte, devoted father of Stanley and his wife, Tracy, and Edward and his wife, Susan. Cherished grandfather of Jana, Adam, Amy, Kate, Nichole, and her husband, Eric, and Danielle. Devoted brother of the late Fred. He was a true gentl
 TUMELTY-Joseph P. The Alumni Association of Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health mourns the untimely passing of a loyal alumnus of the College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Joe Tumelty '70. Through his untiring efforts, a new entity was formed: The Alumni Association of the M
 WISE-James. We mourn the loss of our fellow Player who passed away on November 13. A prolific composer, he was best known for the hit musical (Dames at Sea). There will be a memorial service at The Players on Friday, January 5 at 5:30PM. The Players       
 WOTMAN-Paul Freud. Born July 14, 1951, Bastille Day, in New York. Died Dec. 25th, 2000 in San Francisco. He faced a year-long battle against Lymphoma with much courage & dignity. Paul graduated from Columbia University and Boalt Hall Law School in Berkeley, CA. He broke ground in anti-discr
 Sebastian de Grazia, a political philosopher and Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer, died on Sunday in Princeton, N.J. He was 83. Professor de Grazia, who taught political philosophy at Rutgers University from 1962 to 1988, won the 1990 Pulitzer Prize for biography for his book ''Mac
 William P. Rogers, a suave and well-connected Republican lawyer who was secretary of state under President Richard M. Nixon and attorney general in the Eisenhower administration, died on Tuesday in Bethesda, Md. He was 87. Mr. Rogers lived in Bethesda and worked in the Washington of
 James Charles Corman, a 10-term  congressman from California who helped steer the 1964 Civil Rights Act to passage, died on Saturday at a rehabilitation center in Arlington, Va., where he was being treated after a stroke. He was 80 and lived in McLean, Va. A liberal Democrat, he ser
 AWER-Zachary. On January 3, 2001 after a brief illness. He leaves his wife of 54 years, Erika and his stepmother, Frinna. Services Sunday, 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue.       
 COHEN-Jack. The partners, attorneys, and staff of Ross & Cohen, LLP express their heartfelt sympathy to our partner and friend, Fred Cohen, on the loss of his father, Jack. We extend our deepest condolences to the Cohen family at this time of loss.       
 ECKMAN-Colonel Sidney Robert on January 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Florence, previously married to Betty, who predeceased him. Dear father of Alan Jay, grandfather of Jessica and Blair, brother of Irving Eckman and the late Leo and Morris. He graduated from law school, served in WWII, then
 GLICKMAN-Martin I. He came to us in 1935, as a serious student and outstanding high school athlete. He joined Eta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Mu at Syracuse University and immersed himself in lifelong undergraduate friendships and a leadership role among his fraternity brothers. Some of us still
 HEIMER-Irwin. We mourn the loss of Irwin Heimer, former president of Jamaica Jewish Center and a founding member of our congregation. Sincere condolences are extended to his wife Adele and family. Conservative Synagogue of Jamaica Estates       
 MANDEL-Dr. Jack. It is with a sense of great loss that we note the passing of a friend, a fellow bookman, a lover of American Art, and, above all an ever witty, cheerful, and warm human being. We join all those who extend their sympathy to his bereft widow and family. Craig Anderson, Fred B
 MURDOCK-Lewis C. Of Peapack, NJ, on December 31, 2000 after a long illness. Survived by his wife Madeleine H. Murdock and his three daughters, Catherine C., Pamela H. and Frances N. Memorial service Monday January 8 at 11AM at St. Luke's Church, Gladstone, NJ. In lieu of flowers, contributi
 POWERS-Rev. Anthony F. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the former parochial vicar of St. Michael's Church, 352 42nd St., Brooklyn on January 3. Reposing in Codis Funeral Home, 63-03 Flushing Avenue, Maspeth, Friday, January 5 from 2-5 & 79PM. Funeral Mass at Transfiguration C
 RASCHKO-James M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni record with sorrow the untimely death of Dr. James Raschko, School of Medicine graduate of the class of 1982. An outstanding young physician, he will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Je
 RING-Edward of Princeton, NJ and Rancho Mirage, CA, on January 1, 2001. He was 78 years old. Born December 23, 1922, in New York City, and a graduate of Cheshire Academy, he attended Steven's Institute of Technology before leaving to join the US Navy in 1941 where he served as an underwater
 RIZKALLA-Sam, M.D. The entire New York Community Hospital family mourns the sudden passing of Sam Rizkalla, M.D. Dr. Rizkalla dedicated 33 years of service to our Hospital beginning as a young physician in 1967. He served as our Hospital's President of the Medical Board and remained active 
 ROGERS-William P. The Princess Grace Foundation-USA mourns the passing of William P. Rogers, who was selected by HSH Prince Rainier III of Monaco to serve as a founding Trustee. During his tenure, he helped to set the course for the future direction of the Foundation established in memory o
 SHAW-David. Age 82, of Tamarac, FL, passed away on January 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Esther. Father of Maxine, Leni, Marc and Ilene. Grandfather to eight. We will all miss him. Services January 5, 10:00 A.M., at I.J. Morris Funeral Home, Dix Hills, NY.       
 SHOPKORN-David A. January 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Charlotte, devoted father of Stanley and his wife, Tracy, and Edward and his wife, Susan. Cherished grandfather of Jana, Adam, Amy, Kate, Nichole, and her husband, Eric, and Danielle. Devoted brother of the late Fred. He was a true gentl
 WARD-John Owen. On New Year's. At age 81. A graduate of Dulwich College and St. Edmund Hall at Oxford University, he was a gifted linguist. He fought at Trobruk and was later attached to the French Foreign Legion and British Army Intellgence during W.W. II. After working as an antiquarian m
 Edwin D. Dodd, chairman emeritus of Owens-Illinois Inc., died on Tuesday at a hospice near his home in Perrysburg Township, Ohio, a suburb of Toledo. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said John E. Hoff, an Owens-Illinois spokesman. While spending his entire professional caree
 John F. Hayes, a retired State Supreme Court justice and former interim borough president of Brooklyn, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Hayes, a Democrat, was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn Preparatory School, 
 Les Brown, whose Band of Renown  was one of the most enduring orchestras that grew out of the swing era of the 1930's, died on Thursday night at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. Mr. Brown was one of the last  swing bandleaders to remain active as the century drew to a close. He a
 ATLAS-Louis. The Sholom Atlas Family Circle records with deep sorrow the passing of our beloved charter member, past secretary and treasurer. His help and knowledge was of invaluable measure. Condolences to his son, Bruce. Lawrence Atlas, President, Adelaide Margolies, Vice President, Franc
 FELD-Alfred L. Of Old Bridge, New Jersey, January 2. Devoted husband of Harriett. Loving father of Jay (Maryann) and Leslie (Jim). Cherished grandfather of Paul Willy. Brother of Hy (Lillian). Adored uncle and great-uncle. W.W. II veteran, garment center schlepper and executive for 40 years
 GLICKMAN-Marty. The Officers and Directors of the PSAL Wingate Memorial Fund are deeply saddened by the death of our fellow Director and longtime friend, Marty Glickman. Marty was a great athlete at James Madison High School where he excelled in track and football. He was an outstanding ath
 KREIZEL-William, 79, on January 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Devoted father of James and Dion Kreizel, Susan and William Weintraub and Steven Kreizel. Adored brother of Arthur. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Brian, Keith, Ashley and Nicole. Services Sunday 12:30 at Boulevard Rive
 OCHS-Mal. A resident of Larchmont and formerly of White Plains, NY for over 38 years, passed away on Thursday, January 4. Mal was born on January 10, 1933 in Manhattan, NY to the late Bertram and Irene Ochs. Mal worked in advertising and magazine industry for over 40 years, most recently as
 ROGERS-William P. Cornell University mourns the loss of a distinguished graduate of its Law School and an exemplary public servant, William P. Rogers. Throughout a remarkable career that embraced a successful private legal practice and government service at the highest levels under Presiden
 SINGER-Norman. Age 72. Died on January 5, 2001. Survived by his wife Barbara and his children Clare, Ellen and Ben. Stepchildren Jeffrey (Kerry) Fine, Robin (Charles) Black & Stephanie Fine. Also survived by six sisters and one brother. He was a lover of music, the arts and an avid fisherma
 WOJAK-John. The partners, associates and staff of Ross & Cohen, LLP express their heartfelt sympathy to our partner and friend, John Wojak Jr., on the loss of his father, John Sr. We extend our deepest condolences to the Wojak family at this time of loss.       
 Ralph Bennett Ryder, one of three siblings who, at the nadir of the Depression, created a little trucking company that became the worldwide billion-dollar powerhouse known as Ryder System, died Dec. 28 at a hospital in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Miami. The Ryder story
 Thomas F. Patton, a former chairman of Republic Steel, once one of America's Big Three steel makers, died on Tuesday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 97. Republic hired Mr. Patton in 1936 to form an internal legal department; he had already been an outside lawyer for six 
 William Karlton Jacoby, a former director of industrial design for The New York Times, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla., where he lived in retirement. He was 80. The cause was cardiac arrest after surgery, his family said. Mr. Jacoby, a Manhattan native, t
 AWN-Elias J. Age 88, on January 5, 2001. Of Florham Park, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Isabel Awn (nee Owen). Loving father of Claudette A. Maraziti of Chatham, NJ, Dr. Peter J. Awn of Manhattan, Louise E. Crowley of New Milford, CT, Richard P. Awn of Larchmont, NY. Devo
 DALL-Mark Healey. Of Leeds Mass and Sedona Ariz. Died December 28, 2000 in his 86th year. Husband of Pauline Kingsland Dall, father of Hester, Whitney, Eliza and Sara. Also survived by nine grandchildren. Services private. Interment Mount Auburn Cemetery, Brookline Mass. in June. Memorial d
 GORDON-Irving. Retired Senior Operating Engineer of The New York Times. On December 31, 2000 at 92 years in Monroe Township, N.J. Dedicated and loving husband of his late wife Rose and his late partner Gertie. A strong and loyal workingman and a sensitive listener who provided thoughtful co
 HARRISON-Stan. Age 70, died peacefuly on January 2, 2001, after a long illness endured with courage, tenacity and a zest for life. Beloved husband of Toni Heris, adored father of Mallory Harrison Gerstein, loving grandfather of Renee and Arielle Gerstein, caring brother of Sheldon Harrison,
 JORDAN-John Thompson. Died suddenly at home in Chestertown, MD, December 26, at 75. Beloved father of Sabrina of NYC, caring friend to many. Raised in Indianapolis and a graduate of DePauw University (1948-Delta Upsilon), John began his career in advertising at General Electric in Schenecta
 KREIZEL-William, 79, on January 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Devoted father of James and Dion Kreizel, Susan and William Weintraub and Steven Kreizel. Adored brother of Arthur. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Brian, Keith, Ashley and Nicole. Services Sunday 12:30 at Boulevard Rive
 POSSNER-Bernard Murray. We regret the passing of Bernard Murray Possner of DelRay Beach, FL on Wednesday, January 3, 2001. ''Bernie'', as he was affectionately called, was a resident of the Marine Park section of Brooklyn, NY where he helped found ''The East Highway Little League'' and ''Th
 ROVEN-Dr. Milton D. Age 84, of Coconut Creek, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away unexpectedly on January 5 in Florida. A national lecturer, textbook author, and an international authority on Ambulatory Podiatric Medicine. His innovative surgical procedures, performed in his office in
 SATZMAN-Paul. Professor of Music at Suffolk Community College, died on December 25, 2000. Professor Satzman enjoyed a teaching career for 15 years in the high schools of Long Island. He was among the first to take high school choirs on singing tours of Europe (Brentwood in 1970, Locust Vall
 SCANLAN-Eugene R. The members of the Waldorf Astoria Distinguished Alumni record with sadness the passing of our Chairman Emeritus, Gene Scanlan. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife Ann, son Daniel and daughter Patricia. John G. Flynn, Chairman       
 SCHACTER-Abraham. Of Lake Worth, FL. Beloved of Rita Gould Schacter and his step-children and grandchildren Carla, Andrew, Jesse and Sonya. Brought joy and comfort to all in his life. Died December 7, 2000. Memorial contributions may be made to Hospice of Palm Beach County.       
 SCHWARTZ-Irving. We mourn the loss on January 3, 2001, of our founding and senior partner. Irving was a paradigm of the devoted ethical and compassionate attorney in the highest traditions of the bar. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his daughter, Toby; his son and daughter-in-law, Je
 SOLOMON-Irving. Age 86, formerly of the Bronx, died January 5. The founder of LEGI Jewelry. He had a smile for and brought a smile to all who knew him. Predeceased by his wife Evelyn. He is survived by his son Lawrence, his daughter Gail and three grandchildren Rachel, Peter and David. Serv
 TATUM-Craig L., 47, died December 29, 2000. A son, a brother, a friend, a gardener, a collector. There is an emptiness where Craig was; the joy of being near him is gone, but the love endures. His shining light can never be diminished. A celebration of Craig's life will be announced at a fu
 TAYLOR-Clyde C. 64. On January 5, 2001. Vice President, Curtis Brown Ltd., literary agent for 20 years and former publisher, G. P. Putnam. A much loved friend, beloved father of Katie Taylor Legnini of Woodstock, NY, Emily Taylor of Knoxville, TN, and Andrew Taylor of San Francisco, doting 
 TONKONOGY-Eugene. On December 30, at age 95. Admired and mourned by family and friends. Born in Brooklyn, one of ten siblings including publisher-philanthropist George T. Delacorte and playwright of Broadway comedies Gertrude Tonkonogy. Graduated Cornell University and Columbia Law. Husband
 WARSHAW-Dr. Leon J. A prominent member of New York's medical community for nearly 60 years, died on January 3, 2001 at his home in Manhattan at the age of 83. Dr. Warshaw was a founder and first Executive Director of the New York Business Group on Health. He had a distinguished career as a 
 WEINSTEIN-Louis L. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He was Columbia Records finest sales executive, and an active contributor to Congregation Sons of Israel.       
 WELLMAN-Edward G. 82, died at home on January 6, 2001. Beloved husband of Estelle. Loving father of Ronnie Berish, Jeri Wellman and Nick Bryan, and Scott and Jackie Wellman. Grandfather of Adam, Josh, Alissa, Joshua, Jonathan, Jeremy, Kate, Eric, and Michael. Great-grandfather of Matthew an
 GOODMAN-Bernard, M.D. 75, of NYC, died 1/4/84, in Florida, from heart disease. Born in NYC. He was a dermatologist. He loved opera and played violin in the Physician's Orchestra. He is survived by a daughter, Deborah Goodman, and a niece, Judy Goodman Phillips. Contact 203-352-3310.       
 Dr. Sadek K. Hilal, a Columbia University radiologist who helped advance the science of imaging technology, died Dec. 24 at his home in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. He was 70. Dr. Hilal suffered a stroke, his family said. From 1979 until he took emeritus status four years ago, he 
 Francis Sumner Merritt, the founding director of Haystack Mountain School of Crafts in Deer Isle, Me., who helped to give the study and practice of crafts an international aspect, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Belfast, Me. He was 87. Last September Mr. Merritt and his wife, Priscil
 Frederick Drimmer, who wrote and edited books that explored both the painful and the macabre, died on Dec. 24 in Norwalk, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Norwalk. Mr. Drimmer was the editor of the book ''Scalps and Tomahawks: Narratives of Indian Captivity'' (1961). Reviewing it in The
 George Carman, a libel lawyer who became a courtroom legend for his ability to woo juries with wit and warmth while doing in opponents with one-liners and devastating 11th-hour disclosures, died of prostate cancer last Tuesday at his home in Wimbledon. He was 71 and had retired on his docto
 Milan Hlavsa, the founder, composer and bassist of the Plastic People of the Universe, an underground Czech rock band that galvanized a movement for human rights and democracy, died Friday at his home in Prague. He was 49. The cause was cancer, the group's management said. W
 AWN-Elias J. Age 88, on January 5, 2001. Of Florham Park, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Isabel Awn (nee Owen). Loving father of Claudette A. Maraziti of Chatham, NJ, Dr. Peter J. Awn of Manhattan, Louise E. Crowley of New Milford, CT, Richard P. Awn of Larchmont, NY. Devo
 BELL-Thomas A. Of Vero Beach, FL, died Friday, January 5, 2001, at his residence. Born in West New York, he lived in Jersey City before moving to Vero Beach, FL. Mr. Bell was the International Director of Public Relations for Trans World Airlines, Paris, France. Mr. Bell was a former parish
 BOGDANOFF-David. A loving husband, father and grandfather passed away peacefully on January 5, 2001, in his 89th year. He was born in New York City and graduated Evander Childs High School and City College of New York. There he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Philosophy and English Lite
 GRECO-Roland Robert. Entered into Eternal Life Saturday, January 6, 2001. Beloved husband of Cecelia Hanley Greco, loving father of Roland and Christine, Regina and John, Cecelia and Jeffrey, Claire and Tim, and Claudia. Cherished grandfather of Roland, Gabrielle, Elizabeth, Jack and Bridge
 KLEINSINGER-Harold. Professor Emeritus at St. John's University who taught chemistry and physics from 1932 to 1973, passed away in NYC, on January 6, at the age of 93. He is survied by his wife Frieda; the two recently celebrated their 70th wedding anniversary. Other survivors include his s
 LEVY-Abraham D. On January 6, 2001. Retired Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York. Beloved husband of Kate Levine Levy. He will be remembered as an outspoken community leader, an activist, and a compassionate man. His untiring efforts on behalf of the elderly and indigent, a
 ROVEN-Dr. Milton D. Age 84, of Coconut Creek, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away unexpectedly on January 5 in Florida. A national lecturer, textbook author, and an international authority on Ambulatory Podiatric Medicine. His innovative surgical procedures, performed in his office in
 SCANLAN-Eugene R. Of Somers, NY, died on January 4. Former Vice President and General Manager of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. Member of the Knights of Malta. Survived by his wife Anne, his son Daniel and his daughter Patricia Loomis. Also survived by four grandchildren. Reposing at Clark Asso
 STEARNS-Douglas Burke. Age 84, of Wilmington, DE, died peacefully on January 5, after a valiant fight with cancer. Born in Albany, NY, Mr. Stearns was a 1938 alumnus of Williams College. He retired in 1978 as Vice President of Medical Economics Publishing, Inc. He was a longtime member of t
 STONE-Saul. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the passing of the beloved father of our esteemed colleague and dear friend Professor Richard Stone. We pray that he and his family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ronald S. La
 WEN-Gerald. On January 4, 2001. Passed away at age 84 after a brief illness. He leaves his devoted companion Lian Jun, Chai; his beloved niece Doris and nephew Frank, his stepson Frank Liang, and stepdaughters Jenny and Linda Liang. Gerald obtained M.S. from Cornell University. He played le
 WITTENSTEIN-Victor. Of Ft. Lauderdale, passed away January 6, 2001. Beloved father of Elaine Rohlin, Gail and Ralph Esposito and Myles Wittenstein. Cherished grandfather and great grandfather. Services were held in Florida. He will be greatly missed.       
 WOLLMAN-David. On January 5, after a brief illness. He will be missed by his sons and daughtersin-law, Paul & Betsy and Barry & Judy, his grandchildren, Robert, John, Mark, Kenny & Susan Gomes, sister, Sylvia Morris, and loving companion Joan Frimel.       
 Charles Helou, who was Lebanon's president and head of state from 1964 to 1970, an era of growing threats and of incipient conflict, died on Sunday at a hospital in Zalka, north of Beirut. He was 88 and had recently lived in Kasslik, also north of the capital. The cause was a heart 
 CRUSO-Saul. Passed away on January 7th at the advanced age of 104. Blessed by good looks and exemplary talents, he was a Broadway actor in the early 20's, & subsequently a brilliant political cartoonist for Hearst and other newspapers. He is survived by stepdaughter Roberta Bresnick, nephew
 GLICKMAN - Marty. Chabad's Children of Chernobyl mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a great athlete, an outstanding broadcaster, and a caring and compassionate human being. The Chernobyl children join our Officers, Board and Staff in extending heartfelt condolences to his wife Marjo
 GREENGRASS-Abe (Al). Age 95, on January 6, 2001 in Tucson, Az. He will be missed by his sons Ken and Floyd, five grandchildren and four great grandchildren. Funeral service at Beth Moses Cemetery on Wednesday morning.       
 KAY-Stanley J., Jr., Sr. Vice President at MacKenzie Partners, Inc., died unexpectedly January 5, 2001. Beloved son of Stanley J. Kay, Sr. (deceased) and Mary A. Kay of Garfield Hts, Oh. Loving brother of Christina Tarbox (husband Fred) of Winchester, Va. and Louise Hajduk (husband Terry) o
 KELMAN-Philip. Beloved husband of the late Bert for 57 years. Devoted father of Alan and Judy, Rob and Teri. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, David, Myles, and Jamie and great grandfather of Charlotte. Loving brother of Anita Brugler. Services Wednesday, 10 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North C
 LEOPOLD-Richard, Rhonda and Allison. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Richard Leopold, his wife Rhonda and their daughter Allison. We will miss them. Our sympathies to Jaclyn, Kimberly, the Katz family and the Leopold family. Andrew Marshall, M.
 SCANLAN-Eugene R. The American Jewish Committee has lost a cherished friend with the passing of Eugene Scanlan. Gene served for many years as Chairman of AJC' s Hotel and Hospitality Division and was a recipient of our Human Relations Award. We are grateful for his years of dedication. We s
 SHAPIRO-Ethne Davies. Age 74. On January 8, 2001. Beloved wife of Robert for forty years. Loving mother of Richard and his wife Renee. Loving stepmother of Susan, Meryl, Paula and Roy. Loving step grandmother of Jason, Joshua, Micah and Noah. Beauty, Fashion and Home Sewing Editor of Good H
 SINGER-Rabbi Yitzchok. The Board of Directors, Sisterhood and members of the Bialystoker Synagogue mourn the loss of its esteemed spiritual leader and teacher. For 41 years Moreinu Harav Singer has led our congregation and made our institution an ''anchor'' shul within the historic and vibr
 STADT-Frances Esther (nee Asch). 90. Died on January 6th. Devoted mother of Leo, his fiancee Paula Bennett, Alan, his wife Fran. Grandmother of David, Michael, Kenneth. Great-grandmother of Samantha, Daniel and Dillon. In lieu of flowers donations to the American Lung Association.       
 STONE-Saul. The officers, Board and staff of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourn the passing of Saul Stone, beloved father of our esteemed board member, Professor Richard Stone. May he and his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gedale B. Horow
 Willard J. Jacobson, a retired professor of natural sciences at Teachers College at Columbia University, and the author or co-author of more than 5O books, many on the teaching of science, died on Dec. 29 at his home in Duxbury, Mass. He was 78. The cause was Parkinson's disease, sa
 Bernard J. Geis, a book publisher whose company, Bernard Geis Associates, was a pioneer of the aggressive promotion of sensational best sellers in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Monday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 91 years old. Mr. Geis, who started his company in 1959,
 Dr. Horace Albert Barker, a microbiologist and biochemist who helped to unravel the complex processes of chemical conversion inside living organisms, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Barker made his mark in the 1950's by tracing the biochemical function
 James Carr, a singer whose 1966 recording of ''(At the) Dark End of the Street'' was a masterpiece of Memphis soul, died on Sunday in Memphis. He was 58 and lived in Memphis. The cause was cancer, said his friend and producer Quinton Claunch. With a robust baritone that embr
 BEREZOV-George. Temple Israel mourns the loss of George Berezov, father of Jack Berezov, our friend and former Executive Director. Our deepest condolences to Jack and his family. Martin Cohen, President Judith Lewis, Rabbi       
 EDELSON-Kenneth Joseph. On January 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Jill for 45 years. Loving father of Geoffrey, David, Andrew and Joshua. Wonderful grandfather of Charlotte, Annabel, Oliver, Benzi and Mia. Devoted brother to Burt. Cherished father-in-law of Lisa, Cindy and Fiona, and brother-i
 GLATZER-Mark. On January 8, 2001, at age 92. Beloved husband of Jewel for 60 years. Devoted father of Jeffrey and his wife Marti, Hal and his wife Bonnie, and former daughter-in-law Liz Glatzer. Adoring grandfather of Samantha and, Jessica Glatzer and Matt Murphy, and step grandchildren, Jo
 GREENSTEIN - Joseph. Joseph Yussy, Don Jose Greenstein, age 78 died at home peacefully after a long illness on January 9. Master builder, jungle explorer, founder of Su Casa North and South and World War II veteran. Born in the Bronx, N.Y., son of David and Goldie Greenstein. Survived by hi
 HOROWITZ-Josef, DDS. Died on January 8, 2001 at MemorialSloane Kettering Hospital of cancer. His career as a dentist included service as a Captain in Germany during World War II. He leaves his devoted wife Leatha Lykins; daughter Lynne Van Engel, her husband Daniel and his grandchildren, Em
 LEVIN-Jordan. Beloved husband of Claire. Loving father of Linda and Michael Van Dine, Susan and Herbert Hoffman and Roger and Mia Levin. Cherished grandfather of Naomi, Jessica, Anni, Benjamin, Joshua and Adam. Dear brother of Ruth Siegel. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, He
 LONG-Carl D. On January 7, 2001 in Great Barrington, MA. Beloved husband of Rose-Carol. Loving father of Dan and Tim. Devoted son of Curtis E. Long. Dear cousin of Charla-Sue. Partner at Long and Vickers, a management consulting firm in NYC. Services today, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 7
 LUSKY-Louis. The Columbia Law School community mourns the passing of our beloved colleague and alumnus, Louis Lusky, Betts Professor Emeritus of Law, Class of 1937. Lou was a pioneer in the field of civil rights law and a constitutional law scholar of the highest order. He will be greatly m
 MARCOVE-Ralph C., MD. Died peacefully on January 9 at home following a courageous sixteen month battle of pancreatic cancer. He received his BA and MD degrees from Boston University, Cum Laude and distinguished alumnus. He was affiliated with numerous hospitals in the metropolitan area wher
 OLSZEWSKI-Stephen Felix, 85, of 265 Prospect Lane Portsmouth, died Saturday, January 6, 2001 at Heatherwood Nursing Center, Newport, RI. He was the husband of the late Martha Jane (Thomas) Olszewski. Born in Newark, NJ on May 31, 1915, he was the son of the late Alexander and the late Josep
 READ-Dr. David H.C. We mourn the death of our founding VicePresident, Dr. David H.C. Read. A voice of conscience and compassion, he was an invaluable colleague in our work on behalf of religious freedom. We recall his lasting contributions on our missions to Northern Ireland, the former Sov
 SHAPIRO-Ethne Davies. Age 74. On January 8, 2001. Beloved wife of Robert for forty years. Loving mother of Richard and his wife Renee. Loving stepmother of Susan, Meryl, Paula and Roy. Loving step grandmother of Jason, Joshua, Micah and Noah. Beauty, Fashion and Home Sewing Editor of Good H
 SPAFFORD-Walter F. Of New York City died January 8, 2001. Age 69. He worked as a resident manager for Le Triomphe Building in New York City in building management for over 25 years with local 32 B-J. Born November 13, 1931 to William H. and Frances Spafford. Served in the US Marine Corp 195
 STADT-Frances Esther (nee Asch). 90. Died on January 6th. Devoted mother of Leo, his fiancee Paula Bennett, Alan, his wife Fran. Grandmother of David, Michael, Kenneth. Great-grandmother of Samantha, Daniel and Dillon. In lieu of flowers donations to the American Lung Association.       
 STONE-Saul. The Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty extends condolences to our esteemed Board Member, Professor Richard Stone and his family on the loss of his father. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Merryl H. Tisch, President William E. Rapfogel Executive
 VADALA-Bruno. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Life Member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Catherine and his family. Corey B. Rabin, President Ronald M. Stuart, Secretary       
 WEISS-Edward , Esq. On January 8, 2001, beloved and cherished brother of Harriet Moresh and Kate Knopf and the late Yetta Cohen, Isidore Weiss and Blanche Wind. Loving uncle of Carole Stutzel, Carole Gelfand, Jean Figman, Jane Youd, Randi Walz, Jacqueline Alderman, and the late Walter Cohen
 The Rev. Dr. David H. C. Read, who brought his Calvinist theology, a outspoken approach to contemporary issues and a showman's verve to the pulpit of one of New York City's most prominent churches, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Dr. Read, who was always called t
 Lowell Perry, an all-American receiver at the University of Michigan, the first black assistant coach in the National Football League's modern era and the chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in the Ford administration, died Sunday at a hospital in Southfield, Mich. He wa
 The Rev. Dr. David H. C. Read, who brought his Calvinist theology, a outspoken approach to contemporary issues and a showman's verve to the pulpit of one of New York City's most prominent churches, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Dr. Read, who was always called t
 CHALFEN-Leo, Ph.D., 78, January 10, 2001. Psychoanalytic psychotherapist, training analyst, National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis; Director of Group Therapy and Process, Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy; Consultant, Management Counselor Corporation; Adjunct Professor of P
 ETHERINGTON-Edwin D. Of Jupiter Island, Florida, died at his home on Monday, January 8, 2001. He was seventy-six years old. Born in Bayonne, New Jersey, Ted Etherington lived in Old Lyme, Connecticut, and Jupiter Island where he was a resident of twenty-three years. He graduated with distin
 FINNERAN-William C., Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of William C. Finneran Jr., a Life Member of the Society and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Hi
 GLOTZER-Paul. On January 8, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Mildred. Loving father of David and father-in-law of Charlotte Meyer. Dear grandfather of Aaron and Hannah. Service Thursday 1 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory to Pact, an Adopt
 GREENSTEIN - Joseph. Joseph Yussy, Don Jose Greenstein, age 78 died at home peacefully after a long illness on January 9. Master builder, jungle explorer, founder of Su Casa North and South and World War II veteran. Born in the Bronx, New York, son of David and Goldie Greenstein. Survived b
 HAUSMAN-Sidney. Of Nyack, N.Y., formerly of Brooklyn, passed away January 10, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Carlyn. Devoted father of Nancy and Debbie. Loving grandfather of Danny and Wendy and great grandfather to Tyler. Loving brother to Clarice Hausman, Leona Hausman and Lillian Schw
 JACOBSON-Willard J. On behalf of the Teachers College community I want to express my deepest sympathies to the family of Professor Emeritus of Science Education, Willard J. Jacobson. Professor Jacobson taught science education at Teachers College for 38 years, specializing in elementary and
 MARCOVE-Ralph C., MD. Died peacefully on January 9 at home following a courageous sixteen month battle of pancreatic cancer. He received his BA and MD degrees from Boston University, Cum Laude and distinguished alumnus. He was affiliated with numerous hospitals in the metropolitan area wher
 MARSHALL-Victor F., M.D. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Weill Medical College of Cornell University and New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of our distinguished colleague Victor F. Marshall, M.D. Dr. Marshall, who was born in Culpeper, Virginia, attended Washington and Lee U
 NOTKIN-Dr. Jerome J. Beloved hsuband of Janice for 50 years, devoted father to Michael and Susan, and father-in-law to Jocelyne and Eric, loving grandfather to Ronit, Yael, Sara, and Lucas, and dear brother to Leonard and brother-in-law to Honey, Bob, Sonny, Stanley and Ann. Professor at Ho
 PARKER-Harvey L. On January 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Katherene (nee Hart). Loving father of Cody and West. Brother of Ina Bell. Uncle of Robin Bell Schafer, Madeline Bell and James Bell. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, January 12th, 6-9PM. Funera
 PIERREPONT-John, 84. On January 10, 2001 after a short illness. Son of the late Ruthurfurd Stuyvesant and Nathalie de Castro Pierrepont, he is survived by his widow, Nancy Weller Pierrepont, a son, John Jay Pierrepont, a daughter, Margaret V.B. Pierrepont, a step-daughter, Nancy Dewey Hoppi
 RICHARDSON - Derek. Passed away on January 7, 2001 age 83, after a year's bout with cancer. Formerly of Westport, CT., Derek leaves behind his beloved wife of 60 years, Barbara, and his five children, Derek P., David S., Gay R. Smith, Franklin S. (Tony), and Kate R. Jamison. He is survived 
 ROSS-Alvin S. Of Fresh Meadows, NY, born on Brooklyn, NY in 1921, passed away on January 9th, 2001. Beloved husband of Adele, adored by his daughters, Michele, Bari, Debra, and Meryl, loving father-inlaw of Michael and Jeff, devoted brother of Elspeth Turner, and the late Harvey Ross, cheri
 RUDD-Wallace (Wally). Prolific inventor and founder of Thermatool Corporation. Died December 26, 2000. Father of Robert Rudd of Rye, N.Y. and Nancy Nottermann of Vermont; three grandchildren also survive. He was a recipient of the 1986 N.Y. Patent, Trademark and Copywrite Law Association In
 SAPERIA-Irving. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are saddened by the passing of Irving Saperia, the father of our colleague and friend Phillip A. Saperia, executive director of the Coalition of Voluntary Mental Health Agencies. We express our deep
 SINGER-Yitzchok. The offices, Board of Directors and staff of the United Jewish Council of the East Side, join the Lower East Side community and the entire Jewish community of New York in mourning the untimely death of Rabbi Yitzchok Singer (of blessed memory) spiritual leader of the Bialys
 WEISMAN-Irv. The New York Cycle Club mourns the passing of Irv Weisman, Past President and longtime club member. Irv will be remembered as an inspiration, tutor and mentor to cyclists of all levels and a tireless advocate for safe and effective cycling. Memories of his generous spirit, irre
 Esteban Vicente, one of the last surviving members of the first generation of New York School painters, died on Wednesday at his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 97. Mr. Vicente, who also had a home in New York City, was tall and slim with a reserved, patrician manner. His abstrac
 BENOVITZ - Minnie. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member and past president, Dr. Harvey Benovitz upon the loss of his mother. We extend profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jeruselum. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Ra
 FOX-John L., MD, 83. Died on Saturday, January 6, 2001 at Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte, NC. The cause of death was due to complications from cardiopulmonary disease. Dr. Fox was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY. He attended Xavier High School in New York City and graduated from St. 
 FROSCHL-Joseph. January 10, 2001, age 64. He is survived by wife Merle and his children Joanna and Michael and his wife Sylvie. Memorial service Monday, January 15, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av at 81 St. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Amagansett Public Librar
 GREENSTEIN-Joseph. Age 78. With heavy hearts and great sadness we say adios to our dear Yussy. Husband, father, uncle, grandfather, teacher and mentor. A self made man who truly did things his way. After serving with the armed forces in World War II, he became a very successful builder of p
 KAUFMAN-Leonard. Died peacefully January 10. He will be missed for his generous and loving spirit by his family and friends. Services at 12 noon, Sunday, January 14th, at Sherman Funeral Home, Coney Island Avenue, Brooklyn.       
 KOHNSTAMM-Paul.The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute mourn the passing of Paul Kohnstamm, distinguished Honorary President and Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Mr. Kohnstamm served as President from 1979 to 1980 an
 MARCOVE-Ralph C., M.D. With his surgical courage and his brilliant spirit, more than 20 years ago, Dr. Marcove saved the life of my daughter Maria Jose SottoMayor Matoso Fonseca. We are forever grateful to Dr. Marcove and extend to his family the utmost sympathy. Mme. Elsa Sotto Mayor Matos
 PARKER-Harvey L. On January 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Katherene (nee Hart). Loving father of Cody and West. Brother of Ina Bell. Uncle of Robin Bell Schafer, Madeline Bell and James Bell. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, January 12th, 6-9PM. Funera
 PIERREPONT-John. The Board and staff of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of their dear friend, John Pierrepont. Jack made farreaching contributions to the cultural life of New York City and served as a member of the Board for two decades. We extend our heartfelt
 READ-David H.C. The Trustees of The Living Pulpit, Inc., are saddened by the death of our former Chairman and Editor in Chief, David H.C. Read. We rejoice in his exuberant life and rich legacy of ecumenicism. After his 1989 retirement as Pastor of New York's Madision Ave Presbyterian Church
 REICHMAN-Julian. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the passing of Julian Reichman, past national vice president and honorary member of AJC. Recipient of AJC's Institute of Human Relations Award in 1980, we will remember him for his tireless hands-on dedication to community
 VICENTE - Esteban. Berry - Hill mourns the loss of Esteban Vicente, a great painter, a noble man and an inspiration to many. We will always remember his independent spirit, dignified manner, clever wit and gentle soul. Our deepest sympathies to his devoted wife, Harriet. He will live on thr
 WIENSHIENK-Ralph. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and past Temple President and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 Rabbi Yitzchok Singer, whose leadership of the historic Bialystoker Synagogue on the Lower East Side of Manhattan helped it thrive despite four decades of community change, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 72. He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the synago
 Sir Denys Lasdun, a central figure in European midcentury modernist architecture whose most noted building, the sprawling Royal National Theater on the south bank of the Thames, still inspires praise and opprobrium, died here on Thursday. He was 86 and lived in London. Charles, the 
 John Pierrepont, a philanthropist who was prominent in nonprofit organizations based in New York City, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Pierrepont was with Delafield & Delafield, an investment firm based in Manhattan, for a time, begi
 BELGRADE-Natalie. On January 11, 2001. Beloved mother of Ira and his wife Ruth. Dear sister of Ruth Newman and Marvin Rosen. Cherished sister-in-law of Bea Rosen and the late Leonard Newman. Adored aunt of Mark, Joan, Douglas, Alison, Steven, Eric and Leslie. Services Sunday, 11:45 AM at ''
 BLASER-Nathan. On January 12, 2001. Beloved husband of Maria. Loving father of John, Randy and Sheryl. Dear brother of Sanford and Rose. Adoring grandfather of Alexander, Hunter, Eric and Brittany. Cherished friend. He will be profoundly missed. Visiting Saturday 7-9PM. Service Sunday 12:45
 CHALFEN-Leo. The Board of Directors and the Training Institute of the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis are saddened by the passing of our colleague. He will be remembered for his deep interest and contribution to psychoanalysis. Harvey A. Kaplan, President, NPAP Board o
 GRAF-Kermit. Kermit W. Graf noted educator and executive director of Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County died on January 10 at New York University Medical Center after a long illness. Mr. Graf was 48. He was the valued companion of Victor Cornelius of Germantown, NY, the beloved
 KOHNSTAMM-Paul. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Society for the Deaf mourn the passing of our dear friend and former president, Paul L. Kohnstamm, who provided us with the benefits of his leadership and counsel for over 25 years. His memory and legacy will always form a par
 LIEDERMAN-David S. Resident of New York City and originally from Malden, MA, died on Friday at the age of 65 from the effects of pancreatic cancer. Mr. Liederman was the eldest son of the late Pauline (Kaplan) and Harry Liederman. He is survived by his wife, Terry Gioia; his brothers and si
 Robert A. Love, an economist and businessman who helped develop a type of life insurance that covered the value of home mortgages, died in his sleep on Jan. 5 at his apartment in New York. He was 102 years old. Mr. Love served as a professor and administrator in the City College sys
 William Redington Hewlett, the electrical engineer who in 1938 with David Packard pulled together $538 to set up a tiny electronics company in a Palo Alto, Calif., garage that ultimately led to the creation of Silicon Valley, died today at his home in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 87.      
 Vice Adm. Harry DeWolf, a destroyer commander who was Canada's most highly decorated naval officer of World War II, died Dec. 18 in his home in Ottawa. He was 97. Admiral DeWolf's destroyer, Haida, which survives as a floating museum and war memorial on the Toronto waterfront, sank 
 Dr. Milton I. Roemer, a physician whose research on public health systems helped to shape health policy in the United States and other countries, died on Jan. 3 at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles. Dr. Roemer retired in 1986 as a professor in the U.C.L.A. S
 Murray Aronoff, a crew member of a retired steamship, the Exodus 1947, on its aborted voyage to transport 4,500 Jewish refugees from France to Palestine in 1947, died on Dec. 30 at North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Plainview. He was 75. The cause 
 BANNON-Thomas A. On December 18, at his home in Southold. Memorial service on February 3 at 3 PM, First Universalist Church, 51900 Main Road, Southold.       
 BULOVA-Ernst, Dr., respected educator, psychologist, writer and beloved founder, with his late wife Ilse, of Buck's Rock Performing and Creative Arts Camp, New Milford, CT passed away January 11, 2001. Ernst's innovative vision for a creative, productive and noncompetitive environment for t
 FODY-Sandor A. Of Manhasset, NY, on December 23, 2000. He is survived by his wife Jane. Father of Eve Fody Rudes and the late David Fody. Father-in-law of Wesley Rudes. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Lustgarten Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer Research, 1111 Stewart Ave., Be
 FROSCHL-Joseph. January 10, 2001, age 64. He is survived by wife Merle and his children Joanna and Michael and his wife Sylvie. Memorial service Monday, January 15, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av at 81 St. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Amagansett Public Librar
 GATTNIG-Charles, Jr. January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Therese Marie. Devoted son of Charles and Maria Gattnig. Loving brother of Anna Maria Knific, Frank Gattnig, Sylvia Gattnig and the late Paul Gattnig. He was a retired professor of theatre arts at City College, City University of New
 GRAF-Kermit. Kermit W. Graf noted educator and executive director of Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County died on January 10 at New York University Medical Center after a long illness. Mr. Graf was 48. He was the valued companion of Victor Cornelius of Germantown, NY, the beloved
 HECKLER-Milton. Born October 18, 1918, died on January 6, 2001, husband of Janet, and beloved father of Robert and Susan. A lover of books and the sea, and a teacher of French and Spanish in New York City schools for many years, he'll be greatly missed. Donations in his memory may be made t
 HICKS-Henderson. The Board of Governors, staff, members and friends of Pathways for Youth mourn the passing of our beloved Board President. A committed volunteer for many human services organizations, Mr. Hicks sat on our Board for 15 years, serving as Treasurer and First Vice President bef
 KIRBY-Seymour D. Age 66. Of Brooklyn, New York. Passed away January 6, 2001 after a long illness. Mr. Kirby worked in The New York Times press room for thirty years. He is survived by his wife Roslyn, brother Philip, nephew Hyde Kirby, niece Robin Kane, and their families. KIRBY-Sey
 KOHNSTAMM-Paul L. Died January 10, 2001. Fourth generation President, H. Kohnstamm & Co. and champion of many causes. Husband of Maisie for 56 years. Brother of Elizabeth Ogden and Richard. Beloved father of Kenneth, Peter, Daniel, Joshua, Katherine Piven, Emily Beal and 11 grandchildren. M
 LIEDERMAN-David S. The officers, trustees and staff of Jewish Child Care Association are deeply saddened by the death of David Liederman. As Chief Executive Officer of the Council on Accreditation and previously of the Child Welfare League of America, he was a thoughtful and pasionate advoc
 ORSHAN-H. Allen, Dr. Age 75, will be buried in a private ceremony in Ft. Myers, Florida. He passed away on January 7, 2001 after a long struggle with Parkinson's Disease. After a fulfilling career in public education, he retired in 1979 as a New York City high school principal and moved to 
 SHERMAN-Neil. Age 38, suddenly, on January 11, 2001. Beloved fiance of Donna Voss. Devoted son of Edward and Miriam Sherman of Potomac, MD. Loving brother of Pamela and Peter (Marianne), uncle to Sarah, Maxwell and William. Neil worked for the law firm Abelman, Frayne & Schwab. Funeral serv
 VIER-Henry J. Reverend Monsignor. Died from heart failure January 10, 2001 at the Osborn Home in Rye, New York. Msgr. Vier was born in White Plains, NY on September 1, 1913, the son of the late Dr. Henry and Mrs. Henry J. Vier. He graduated from Iona Preparatory School in 1931 and received 
 VILLA-Anthony L. 80, of Peapack, NJ, died on Friday, January 12, 2001. Devoted husband of the late Diana Gambrill Villa and beloved father of Anthony G., Peter L., L. Blair, Nicholas G., Diana Villa Noble and Wendy Villa Robins, and the loving grandfather of nine. Born in NYC, March 3, 1920
 VINCENTE-Esteban. Guild Hall of East Hampton notes with sorrow the loss of Esteban Vincente who was an esteemed member of the Guild Hall Academy of the Arts, and recognized as a Lifetime Achievement Honoree in 1993. Our sympathies are extended to his wife, Harriet and the entire family.    
 Ben Cutler, an orchestra leader whose sounds ushered the society set from swing to rock and disco and back again, died on Jan. 5 in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 96. For more than 60 years, Mr. Cutler was a fixture on the society circuit, weathering the advent of rock 'n' roll and the dec
 Edwin D. Etherington, who left the the top post at the American Stock Exchange to become president of Wesleyan University, died Jan. 8 at his home in Jupiter Island, Fla. He was 76. Mr. Etherington, a writer and lawyer by education, was a staunch civil rights advocate by avocation. 
 Eugene K. Tonkonogy, a real estate entrepreneur who fell in love with a Caribbean island when he read a magazine article about it and did not rest until he bought it years later, died on Dec. 30 in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 95. The island was Marina Cay, an eight-acre dot o
 Dr. H. Corwin Hinshaw, a lung specialist who pioneered the use of streptomycin to treat tuberculosis, died on Dec. 28 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 98. As a young researcher at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota in the early 1940's, he took part in a major effort to conquer tub
 Jack McVea, a tenor saxophonist and bandleader who was a writer of the 1947 novelty hit ''Open the Door, Richard,'' died on Dec. 27 in Los Angeles. He was 86. Mr. McVea started out playing ukulele in a band led by his father, the banjoist Isaac (Satchel) McVea, who was the first bla
 Lt. Col. Jimmy Yule, who as a British Army officer at the Colditz prisoner of war camp in World War II operated a clandestine radio receiving coded intelligence messages and organized a P.O.W. musical group that helped orchestrate escapes, died Dec. 25 in Colchester, England. He was 84.    
 BERGREEN-John. Beloved husband of Natasha Cowger. Cherished son of Adele and Morris Bergreen. Dear brother of Laurence Bergreen and Betsy. Wonderful uncle of Nicholas, Sara, Hanan, Tim, Jeff, Robert and Nanoucka. Generous, kind, unique, talented, charming and unforgettable John. Friends may
 GRAF-Kermit. Kermit W. Graf noted educator and executive director of Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County died on January 10 at New York University Medical Center after a long illness. Mr. Graf was 48. He was the valued companion of Victor Cornelius of Germantown, NY, the beloved
 HEWLETT-William R. Faculty, students and colleagues of the City University of New York's Americas Center on Science and Society, along with members of its InterAmerican scientific team (IACERE) mourn the profound loss of William R. Hewlett, a visionary leader in industry, science and techno
 KLARIS-Harvey. Commercial Capital Corporation notes with sadness the passing of Harvey Klaris who was instrumental in the early formation of our company. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Charles Freeman, Chairman       
 McCABE-James Mason ''Jay''. 61, noted Wall Street analyst died Thursday, January 11, 2001, in Hackensack, NJ, from pulmonary failure following a stem-cell transplant. A lifelong resident of Little Silver, NJ, Mr. McCabe held degrees from the Canterbury School, Princeton University and an MB
 REISS-Philip S. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane Reiss, Nancy Booke and Meg Reiss. Adored grandfather of Lena and Will Shefelman and Henry and Milo Booke. Dear brother of Barbara Hochfelder. Father-in-law of Nicho
 SHIFREN-Herman. Died January 11, 2001. Loving father of Jonathan and James. Devoted husband to Lori Shifren. He was a veteran, having served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. Graduate of Temple University and Columbia University School of Public Health. He worked sucessfully for nearly 
 VILLA-Anthony L. 80, of Peapack, NJ, died on Friday, January 12, 2001. Devoted husband of the late Diana Gambrill Villa and beloved father of Anthony G., Peter L., L. Blair, Nicholas G., Diana Villa Noble and Wendy Villa Robins, and the loving grandfather of nine. Born in NYC, March 3, 1920
 Victor Braun, a Canadian baritone whose repertory included many contemporary roles, died Jan. 6 in Ulm, Germany. He was 65 and lived in Brussels. The cause was Shy-Drager syndrome, a neurodegenerative disease, said Moira Johnson, his spokeswoman. Mr. Braun was born in Windso
 Frederick W. Hughes, Andy Warhol's business manager for more than 25 years, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause was complications of multiple sclerosis, a disease from which he had suffered for 18 years, said Mary-Beth Hansard, his sister. The impec
 Kwang-chih Chang, a Harvard anthropologist known for his work documenting Chinese civilization of the Bronze Age, died on Jan. 3 at a nursing home in Boston. He was 69 and had lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was respiratory failure because of complications from Parkinson's disea
 Kenneth Haas, who held managerial positions with the Boston Symphony and other American orchestras, died on Saturday in Newton Upper Falls, Mass. He was 57. The cause is still to be determined, pending an autopsy, said Caroline Smedvig, a spokeswoman for the Boston Symphony.        
 ALLEGRETTI-Alfred A. President Bayside Fuel Oil Depot Corp. Loving husband of Linda Ann. Devoted father of Tina Scarlino, Roseanne DeMaria, Vincent, Michael and the late Sergio. Fond brother of Victor V., Angelina Damiana and Vitolena Brod. Cherished grandfather of Alfred, Michael DeMaria, 
 BERGREEN-John. Beloved husband of Natasha Cowger. Cherished son of Adele and Morris Bergreen. Dear brother of Laurence Bergreen and Betsy. Wonderful uncle of Nicholas, Sara, Hanan, Tim, Jeff, Robert and Nanoucka. Generous, kind, unique, talented, charming and unforgettable John. Friends may
 FRANKEL-Rabbi William. We record with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who served several pulpits becoming founding rabbi of Am Yisrael Conservative Congregation in the Chicago area in 1968, a synagogue he served until his retirement in 1994. We express our deepest condo
 GRAF-Kermit W. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County express their deep sadness at the passing of our executive director, Kermit W. Graf. A leader and a friend, his knowledge, insight and enthusiasm will be greatly missed.       
 HAAS-Kenneth Gregg, of Wellesley, MA. Formerly of NYC and Cleveland, OH. Beloved husband of Signe (Johnson). Dear son of Eunice D. Haas of Palo Alto, CA., and the late Philip Hass, Jr. Devoted father of Elizabeth Haas of Cambridge, Amanda Haas of Los Angeles, CA., and John Kenneth (Jake) Ha
 HICKS-Henderson. The Board of Governors, staff, members and friends of Pathways for Youth mourn the passing of our beloved Board President. A committed volunteer for many human service organizations, Mr. Hicks sat on our Board for 15 years, serving as Treasurer and First Vice President befo
 HOGUE-William Marston. Longtime headmaster of The Tome School in North East, Maryland, died in Washington, DC, on January 13, 2001. Dr. Hogue was born in Washington, DC, on June 24, 1923, the son of William Henry and Irene Marston Hogue. He attended the George Washington University (B.A. an
 HUGHES-Fred. The Board and Staff of The Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh expresses profound sympathy to the family of Fred Hughes. As the Founding President of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts Inc., he envisioned the creation of a unique museum devoted to the life and art of h
 KELLY-John Murray, lifelong resident of Garden City. Suddenly on January 14, 2001. Information specialist, counselor, coach. A kind and wise man. Leaves behind beloved wife Pam, loving children Katie Gleeson, Garrett Gleeson and Kara Kelly, mother Mary M. Kelly, sisters Mary McCarraher, Kat
 KOTIMSKY-Jerry. 69, on January 14, 2001. A member of the esteemed kosher catering family of Kotimsky and Tuchman. Devoted husband to the late Liane Norman Kotimsky. Loving father to Sherri and Cindy, their husbands Dennis and John. Terrific grandfather to Sarah, Thomas, Samantha and Daniel.
 LASH-Carl K. Of Boynton Beach, Fl. formerly of Rockville Centre and Lido Beach, LI. Passed away January 13, 2001. Loving husband of Sylvia to whom he was married 55 years. Adored father of Glenn (Stephanie), William (Jean) and Melissa Lash. Cherished grandfather of Stuart and Sarah Lash and
 LEUCHTER-Ben Zion. The Board of Directors and staff of JTA, the Global News Service of the Jewish People, mourn the death of Ben Zion Leuchter, our beloved Director and longtime chair of our Editorial Policy Committee. A journalist himself, Ben set the highest standards of excellence and pr
 MARCOVE-Ralph C. MD. The Board of Trustees Medical Staff and Administration of The Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Ralph C. Marcove, M.D. As a highly respected member of the medical staff at the Hospital for Special Surgery since 1966 he consistently pro
 MASTER-Mike who would have been 78 on January 31. Devoted and loving husband of 52 years to Doris, beloved father of Bob and Lisa and father-in-law of Nancy Goldhill and Ken Park. He adored his grandchildren, Benjamin, Ilana and Maya. Loving brother of Herb. Intellectual, socially conscious
 REISS-Philip. Philip was our dear friend and colleague for 39 years. His death is a great loss. He was always there at a time of need and was a leader with compassion and courage, even during his illness. Our deepest sympathy to Gloria, his children and family. May his memory serve as a bea
 STEIN-Eli. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Avi Stein, upon the loss of his father. We express profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President  
 VICENTE-Esteban. The Board of Trustees, Faculty, Students and Staff, both past and present, at The New York Studio School, mourn the passing of this great man who touched so many of our lives, and continues to do so through the legacy of his paintings. A memorial service will be announced i
 VILLA-Anthony L. 80, of Peapack, NJ, died on Friday, January 12, 2001. Devoted husband of the late Diana Gambrill Villa and beloved father of Anthony G., Peter L., L. Blair, Nicholas G., Diana Villa Noble and Wendy Villa Robins, and the loving grandfather of nine. Born in NYC, March 3, 1920
 WEINBERG-Honorable Sanford I. Acting Village Justice of Kings Point died suddenly on January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Clara. Loving father of Elliot and Eric. Dear brother of Anita Sperber of Boston. He was a partner in the law firm of Batzer & Weinberg, P.C. in Rockville Centre and was
 Edward Mangum, a director and teacher who was a founder of Arena Stage in Washington, one of the nation's leading regional theaters, died on Wednesday in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 87. Mr. Mangum's career in theater began in 1947, shortly after he graduated from Catholic U
 Hammond E. Chaffetz, a leading antitrust lawyer who won a big price-fixing case against the oil industry in the depths of the Depression and went on to build a little Chicago law office into one of the nation's largest law firms, Kirkland & Ellis, died on Friday, the firm said yesterday. He
 John W. Rhoden, a sculptor who worked primarily in wood and bronze, died on Jan. 4 in St. Albans, Queens. He was 82 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Rhoden's commissioned works include ''Monumental Abstraction,'' on the exterior of the Metropolitan Hospital in Harlem; a nine-foot bronze s
 Luiz Bonfa, a guitarist and composer who was one of the originators of Brazilian bossa nova, died on Friday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, said Arnaldo de Souteiro, his longtime record producer. Mr. Bonfa, who recorded more than 50 albums, was t
 BARTRUFF-Rev. Louis B. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the former chaplain of Madonna Residence, Brooklyn on January 13. Reposing in Doyle B. Shaffer Funeral Home, 45-09 Little Neck Pkwy, Little Neck, Wednesday January 17, from 2-5 & 7-9pm. Funeral Mass at Immaculate Concepti
 BURT-William R. 1914-2001, Hilton Head Island, SC-Col. (USAF ResRet) died January 8 at his home. He was 86. Col. Burt had an illustrious career in the Army Air Corps during World War II and in the Air Force Reserves thereafter. He was a Wall Street attorney, business executive, venture capi
 CONOVER-Cameron Howard, of Summit, NJ, on January 14, 2001, husband of the late Patricia Lee James Conover, father of Cameron H. Jr., Anne L. Conover, Patricia B. Conover and James B., brother of Lloyd H. Conover, also survived by four grandchildren, Cameron H. III, J. Collins Conover, Spen
 DAVIS-Leonard. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of Leonard Davis, AFHU Council of Trustees member and longstanding leader and an Honary Governor of the Hebrew University. Leonard and his late wife Sophie, were long
 DECHOWITZ-Perry. On January 16, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Loving father of Rosalie Blonder, Fred and his wife Denise. Dear brother of Sylvia Greenberg. Service Wednesday 10am at ''The Riverside'', 76th and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory may be made to JASA West
 FRANKEL-Marty. An interested, dedicated golfer who provided hundreds of hours of passionate competition. He believed he was a 16, but always played to a 26. We wish him nothing but wide fairways, smooth greens and scores under 90. Jerome Belson Harvey Yalof Lou Massar       
 HEIMER-Ralph, Ph.D. Of Philadelphia, PA in Rome on January 10. Professor Emeritus of Biochemistry at Thomas Jefferson University. He was the loving husband of the late Caryl Biren and the late Phyllis Sampson. He is survived by two sons and daughters-in-law, Robert and Noel of New Haven, CT
 HEWLETT-William R. The Officers and Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourn the passing of William R. Hewlett. A distinguished Fellow of the Academy for over 30 years, his engineering brilliance, entrepreneurial leadership, deep concern for education and the environment, 
 HUGHES-Frederick W. The Board of Directors and the staff of The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts mourn the death of Fred Hughes, who was a Founding Member of the Foundation's Board of Directors, its first president, its Chairman of the Board, and its Honorary Chairman. Fred Hughes
 KAWCZYNSKI-Thomas J. 38, January 16th. A Manhattanite for seven years and Controller for the Sulzer USA Company for over 15 years, Tom has influenced the lives of many with his ability to provide calm, direction and clarity. Warm, loving, kind and creative, he offered his friendship freely 
 LEUCHTER-Ben Zion. It is with great sadness that HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, notes the passing of our dear friend, longtime colleague and former president (1988-1992). His leadership, dedication and lifelong commitment to assisting Jews worldwide was truly inspiring. During the 
 LYNCH-Patrick W. Beloved brother of Penelope Wilk. Loving uncle of C. R. and Sandra Mendelsohn. Devoted friend of Patricia Skinner. President Emeritus of N.Y. Turf Writers Association, Past Vice President of Public Relations of N.Y.R. A. Reposing at the Elmont Funeral Home, 1529 Hempstead T
 READ-David Haxton Carswell. In loving memory of our dear friend and pastor for 40 years, and with deepest sympathy for his wife, Patricia Gilbert Read and son, Rory David Gilbert Read. Leila Hadley Luce and Henry Luce III       
 REISS-Philip S. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane Reiss, Nancy Booke and Meg Reiss. Adored grandfather of Lena and Will Shefelman and Henry and Milo Booke. Dear brother of Barbara Hochfelder. Father-in-law of Nicho
 SCHEIBER-Donald Z. Died January 9th. President, The Bart Group of Port Washington. Past president, The Queens Symphony Orchestra. He had been V.P. of Student Affairs, St. John's Univ. & Adjunct Assoc. Professor of Administration & Economics. A memorial service will be held Friday, January 1
 THOMPSON - John Edwin. 1941-2001. John Thompson beloved husband of Karen and father to Nicole and Scott passed away Monday, January, 16, 2001. He was born in New York City, New York, June 7, 1941. He is survived by his brother Allen Thompson, his sister-in-law Marlene, nephews Phillip and R
 WEINBERG-Sanford. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow County Club record the passing of Sanford Weinberg, a member of our club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Clara, his sons Elliot and Eric, and the entire family
 WILLINGER-Allan H. Of Franklin Lakes, N.J. on January 16, 2001. Devoted husband of Fen-Hui. Beloved father of William, Wendy and Jonathan. Loving grandfather of Alexandra, Julia and Emily. Dear brother of Barbara Wabeck and Harding Willinger. His warmth, humor and brilliance will never be f
 KLEIN-Felix. Jan. 17, 1911-July 26, 1994. Founder, Nat'l Society for Graphology and lifelong graphologist. Born in Vienna, Austria, survivor of Dachau and Buchenwald. He loved people and lived to help and heal them. Janice       
 Auberon Waugh, an acerbic and often outrageous journalist, satirist and critic, and the eldest son of the novelist Evelyn Waugh, died on Tuesday at his home in Taunton, Somerset, England. He was 61. He had been suffering from a heart condition and died in his sleep, his wife, Teresa
 Dr. John Nevil Insall, a pioneer of knee replacement surgery whose prostheses helped restore mobility to thousands of people, died Dec. 30 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Westport, Conn. The cause was lung cancer, said Dr
 Leonard Woodcock, who succeeded Walter P. Reuther as president of the United Automobile Workers and  was envoy to China during the Carter administration, negotiating the historic re-establishment of full relations between the United States and China in 1979, died on Tuesday at his home in A
 BOGIN-Henry J., 80, of Harrisburg, formerly of Brooklyn and Queens, died January 16, 2001. He was the widower of Helen C. Bogin. Surviving are a son, Matthew B., a daughter, Heidi J. Oshin; and three grandchildren. Services were held Wednesday from Beth El Cemetery Chapel, Harrisburg. Memor
 CHERRICK-Sol. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of a respected member of the St. Louis, MO, Jewish community, beloved husband of Phyllis, father of Caroline and Elizabeth, and son of Sam and Sylvia Cherrick. He is the brother o
 DAVIS-Leonard. The City College of New York and its Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/ CUNY Medical School mourn the passing of Leonard Davis, an alumnus who was a major benefactor of his alma mater. A 1944 graduate of CCNY, he and his late wife Sophie are responsible for the crea
 FISHMAN-Noah. On Sunday, January 21, 2001. Born October 2, 1909. Retired New York City teacher and principal. Lover of music and literature. Survived by loving wife Lillian, and will be sorely missed by his family, friends and community.       
 FULDA-Leo. The Jewish Center mourns the untimely passing of the father of its member, Yocheved Rogosnitzky. May his entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 GIBBON-John, Ph.D. Of Ossining, New York, and Vinyard Haven, MA. Professor of Psychology at Columbia University. Loving husband of Miriam, father of John Jesse, stepfather of Andrew and Matthew Harless, brother of Mary Clarke, Alice Saltzman & Marjorie Masek. Of cancer at his home January 1
 GLYNN-Thomas B., age 96, died Saturday, January 27th, 2001 at the Norwalk Hospital. Born January 1st, 1905 in Boston, Massachusetts. He lived in Greens Farms, CT. for over 70 years. He graduated from Harvard University in 1929. Mr. Glynn was a lifelong horseman and polo enthusiast. He is su
 GOLDE-Lawrence W. On January 16, 2001. Beloved husband of Josephine and loving father of Lawrence G. and Robert H. Also survived by three grandchildren. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Boulevard, Manhasset, Friday, January 19th, 4:30-7:30 PM. Funeral private. Memori
 GOTTESMAN-Jay. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel, mourns the loss of its beloved member Jay Gottesman and extends heartfelt condolences to his mother Audrey Gottesman. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland, Cantor Shayna Smith Carol J. Green, President       
 HITCHCOCK-John T. Age 83, Professor of Anthropology and South Asian Studies Emeritus, died January 16, 2001 in Stoughton, WI. He is survived by his first wife Patricia Hitchcock, a daughter, and his second wife Catharine McClellan. Burial will be private in Vermont. Memorials may be made to
 HUGHES-Frederick W. The Board of Directors and the staff of The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts mourn the death of Fred Hughes, who was a Founding Member of the Foundation's Board of Directors, its first president, its Chairman of the Board, and its Honorary Chairman. Fred Hughes
 HUNTER-James Ray, on January 27, 2001. Brother of Mary Jane Durazo. Godfather of Zoe Rosen. Predeceased in death by his parents, Loy Ray and Edith, and his brother, Steven Loy Hunter. Longtime volunteer for G.M.H.C. and S.A.G.E. Memorial service Thursday, 11 AM, at Reddens Funeral Home, 325
 KLEIN-Lillian. On January 16, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Loving mother of Howard and his wife Cheryl and Michael and his wife Georgina. Cherished grandmother of Danielle and Amanda. Services are today, at 1 P.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 KRUGMAN - Hyman. Distin guished New York attorney, died on January 27. He served in the Judge Advocate's Office during World War II. He is survived by his sister and brother-in-law Belle and Irving Rosenkranz, Beach, FL., and daughter, Ellen FriedmanKrasner and grandchildren.       
 LaROCCA-Rev. Msgr Vincent R. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Advisor and Legal Expert for the Holy See's Permanent Observer to the United Nations, on January 16. Reposing at Torregrossa Funeral Home, 1305 79th Street, Brooklyn, Thursday, January 18 from 2 to 5 and 7 to 10
 LARSEN-Laurence Putnam, 45, died in San Juan, PR on December 21, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Scynthia Macovik Larsen, mother Marcia Tirrell Larsen, father H. Allen Larsen, sisters Kristen and Leslie, brother Keith. Born in Concord, MA, Laurence graduated from Bowdoin College and Colum
 LEVINSON-Emanuel, Doctor of Electrical Engineering, leader in the field of inertial navigation and a developer of the ring laser gyroscope, died suddenly January 15 at age 74 in Charlottesville, Va., where he was consultant to Litton/ Sperry Marine. With 53 years in the defense industry, he
 LYNCH-Patrick W. Beloved brother of Penelope Wilk. Loving uncle of C. R. and Sandra Mendelsohn. Devoted friend of Patricia Skinner. President Emeritus of N.Y. Turf Writers Association, Past Vice President of Public Relations of N.Y.R. A. Reposing at the Elmont Funeral Home, 1529 Hempstead T
 McCADDIN-Henry V. Suddenly on January 27, 2001, of Summit, NJ. Husband of Alice (nee Joyce) McCaddin. Father of Mary Sanders, Alice, Henry, Hazel, Robert and John. He is also survived by 11 grandchildren and two brothers, Robert McCaddin & James McNamara. A Mass of Christian Burial will be 
 O'BRIEN-James P. On January 16, 2001. Beloved husband of Barbara (nee DeSario). Loving father of Patrick, Timothy, Jimmy and Clare. Adoring grandfather of Kira, Lila, Finn, Sophie and James. Also survived by his mother, Aileen O'Brien and eight brothers and sisters. Dedicated Business Manag
 OLSON-Glenn. Passed away on January 29, 2001, age 75. He was a former dancer with The Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and numerous Broadway musicals. He is survived by brother Alfred Olson and sister Mildred Olson and life partner Marc Austen. His kind and loving presence will be missed by all 
 READ-David Haxton Carswell. In loving memory of our dear friend and pastor for 40 years, and with deepest sympathy for his wife, Patricia Gilbert Read and son, Rory David Gilbert Read. Leila Hadley Luce and Henry Luce III       
 REISS-Philip S. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane Reiss, Nancy Booke and Meg Reiss. Adored grandfather of Lena and Will Shefelman and Henry and Milo Booke. Dear brother of Barbara Hochfelder. Father-in-law of Nicho
 SAND-Adolf. On January 9. Born in Brooklyn, NY on December 18, 1937. He was a history teacher for 25 years. He was a dedicated teacher, father, husband, brother, grandfather and uncle. He leaves daughters Shara (Sharon) and Tammy (Tony), grandsons Noah, Spencer and Ezra; sister Claryce and 
 SAVOY-Marie Jose, 94, on Saturday, January 27, 2001, in Geneva, Switzerland. The delegate and the American members of the dynastic orders of the Royal House of Savoy record with deep sorrow the passing of Her Majesty Queen Marie Jose of Savoy, last Queen of Italy, beloved mother of our Gran
 VALEN-Herbert. Of Del Mar, Calif. (formerly of Westport, CT.). Died on January 27, 2001 at age 82. A former gag writer for The New Yorker magazine, he is survived by his wife, Felice Holman Valen, his daughter, Nanine Valen, son-inlaw Gerald Levinson, and grandsons Aaron Valen Levinson and 
 VICENTE-Esteban. The members and directors of The Corporation of Yaddo note with sadness the passing of Esteban Vicente, a long-time friend of the artists who have worked at Yaddo who with his wife, Harriet, celebrated the 100th anniversary of the founding of Yaddo by establishing an endowe
 YORK-Gordon Bradbury, beloved husband of Harriet Glover York, father of Pamela Glover York, and grandfather of Sarah Glover York, died on January 16, 2001 at La Posada in Green Valley, Arizona. He lived in New York City for 37 years and worked for McCalls, Life and Family Weekly magazines. 
 DE ROUSSY DE SALES-Aymon. In loving memory of Count Aymon de Roussy de Sales. The Eucharist will be celebrated and the prayer of his beloved family and friends will be offered on Wednesday, January 31 at 5:30PM at St. Joseph's Church in Greenwich Village, 371 6th Avenue, 2 blocks south of 8
 Gregory Corso, a poet and leading member of the Beat literary movement that shook American social and political life in the late 1950's and 60's, died on Wednesday in Robbinsdale, Minn., where he lived with his daughter Sheri Langerman. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, Ms. 
 Morris Lapidus, an architect long derided and later praised for designing some of South Florida's gaudiest, glitziest and most glamorous hotels in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 98 and lived in a white high-rise he designed that stands near three of h
 ADAMS - Frederick B. The Trustees and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of Frederick B. Adams, who died in Chisseaux, France, on January 7, 2001. He was 90 years old. He served, with distinction, as the second Director of the Library from 1948 to 1969. Mr. Adams, an inter
 BERGREEN-John. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the untimely passing of John Bergreen, a talented photographer and cherished son of Adele and Morris Bergreen. John's kindness reflected the compassionate concern of his parents, excep
 CARR-Francis T. To our beloved Collette, Tracy, John, Francis, Deirdre and Zino J., we will miss Frank dearly. He will be in our thoughts and hearts forever. Love Sharon, Harold, Tiffany, John, Dean and Todd Ross       
 DAVIS-Leonard. The City University of New York deeply mourns the death of Leonard Davis, alumnus of The City College of New York/CUNY, visionary philanthropist and insurance executive. He and his beloved wife Sophie Davis, who passed away four months ago, were the benefactors responsible fo
 O'BRIEN-James P. The Cathedral School is saddened by the death of James O'Brien, its Business Manager for 14 years. His vital presence, his ever present good humor and his unwavering high standards for the school community will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to Barbara an
 REISS-Philip S. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane Reiss, Nancy Booke and Meg Reiss. Adored grandfather of Lena and Will Shefelman and Henry and Milo Booke. Dear brother of Barbara Hochfelder. Father-in-law of Nicho
 SEGAL-Berta. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends heartfelt condolences to our dedicated Vice President, David Segal and family, upon the passing of his dear mother. Hamakom Yenachemchem       
 SPRAGUE - Robert Norman, peacefully at his home January 13. Retired from the field of aging and employment. He was a voracious reader. His humor, love and endless curiosity will be missed by his son, Wolcott E. Sprague (Eric), his friend and companion of many years, Hilary Knatz, and other 
 STRASBURG-Samuel. Of Lake Worth, FL and formerly of Yonkers, NY on Wednesday, January 17, 2001, shortly before his 96th birthday. Beloved husband of the late Irene, loving father of Philip and his wife, Roberta. Dearest grandfather of Donald Strasburg, Lauren and Scott Freifeld, doting grea
 WELLS-Thomas Moore. Of Scarborough, New York, architect, died after a long illness on January 16, 2001 at his home. He was 59. Mr. Wells was born April 10, 1941 in Boston, Massachusetts. He received his B.A. from Dartmouth College in 1963 and his Masters of Architecture from Columbia Univer
 WISEMAN-Kevin Michael of Sleepy Hollow, New York, died on Monday, January 15, 2001, at St. Thomas Hospital in London, England. He was 44. Mr. Wiseman was a Principal at Banc of America Securities LLC in New York City. He was travelling on business at the time of his death. He was born Septe
 SILAS-Metropolitan. A 40-Day Memorial Service for His Excellency Metropolitan Silas, former Greek Orthodox Bishop of the Diocese of New Jersey, will be held Saturday, January 20 at 11:00 a.m. at the Church of Our Saviour, Rye, NY. Born December 27, 1919 on the Greek Island of Corfu, he was 
 Dr. Leon J. Warshaw, a former city health affairs official and founder of the New York Business Group on Health, an information exchange for employers that provide benefits for more than one million workers and family members, died at his home in Manhattan on Jan. 3. He was 83. The 
 Harvey J. Klaris, a producer of the Tony Award-winning musical ''Nine,'' died on Jan. 12 in New York. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Jane. Mr. Klaris, a lawyer and investment banker, was a producer of the Broadway show ''The Tap
 Leonard Davis, a leading philanthropist and the founder of the Colonial Penn Group, an insurance company that pioneered insurance programs for the elderly, died Monday while on a cruise to South America. He was 76 years old and lived in Palm Beach, Fla. The cause of death was conges
 ADAMS-Frederick B. The Council of the Grolier Club of New York extends heartfelt sympathy to the widow and family of Frederick B. Adams. Mr. Adams took a keen and active interest in the Grolier Club throughout his 64-year membership, the longest in the Club's history. He held at one time or
 BERGREEN-John. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our esteemed member, John Bergreen. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Natasha, his parents Morris and Adele Bergreen, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin,
 CARR-Francis T. To our beloved Collette, Tracy, John, Francis, Deirdre and Zino J., we will miss Frank dearly. He will be in our thoughts and hearts forever. Love Sharon, Harold, Tiffany, John, Dean and Todd Ross       
 DAVIS-Leonard. It is with deep regret that the staff and Board of Aaron Davis Hall note the passing of our founding benefactor, Leonard Davis. His wife, Sophie, and he were partners in business and philanthropy, advisors to one another and contributed unselfishly to sustain the life of Aaro
 FLUELLEN-Thom. The NYU community grieves for the loss of Thom Fluellen. Throughout the University and its neighborhoods, Thom was admired for his charm, his decency and his kind manner and he brought a high level of professionalism to all he did on behalf of the University. He was taken fro
 GOLDSMITH - Karen. Beloved wife of David H. Devoted mother of David M. and Marcy, and Jeffrey N. and Kim. Cherished grandmother of Lauren, Adam, Bryan, and Alyson. Services at ''The Riverside'', 21 West Broad St., Mount Vernon Sunday January 21, at 2PM. Donations may be made to Hadassah of 
 GOLDSTEIN-Ira, husband of Lillian Shapiro, died on January 19, 2001 at 74 years of age. He is survived by children, daughter, Roslyn Kusherman, of Ardsley, NY sons Eric Goldstein of Los Angeles, Carl Goldstein of Dobbs Ferry, NY, son-in-law Neil Kusherman, granddaughters Lindsay and Ariel K
 GROTELL-Polly. Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Polly Grotell, beloved mother of Michael Grotell. We extend our deepest condolences to Michael and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 HEILSHORN-John W. ''Jack.'' Of Litchfield, CT, age 75, died January 18, 2001, from complications of diabetes. He was an Executive Vice Presient with Travelers Corporation of Hartford, CT, from 1985 to 1988, when he retired from a 39 year career in the financial services industry. Prior to t
 HOFFMAN-Mendl. The YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourns the passing of our distinguished emeritus trustee, Mendl Hoffman, visionary businessman, ardent supporter of Yiddish language and culture, who served on the YIVO Board for more than two decades. His connection with YIVO dates to 1
 KOEPPEL-Alfred J. Of New York City and Boca Raton, FL passed away on January 19, 2001 after a lengthy fight against cancer. Loving husband of Ruth, devoted father of Lynne and Caleb, predeceased by Sherri, Lesley and David and Sarah and Robert Cohn. Adoring grandfather of Melissa, Kyle, All
 LEVINE-David. On January 17, in Paris, France. Beloved husband of Pam Buckner Levine. Loving father of Noah and Emma. Adored son of Sarah and the late Abraham, of Florida and Delaware. Cherished brother of Kenneth and his wife Anna, of Columbia, MD. Proud uncle of Rebecca and Adam. Dear son
 REISS-Philip S. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane Reiss, Nancy Booke and Meg Reiss. Adored grandfather of Lena and Will Shefelman and Henry and Milo Booke. Dear brother of Barbara Hochfelder. Father-in-law of Nicho
 STAVE-Bernard R. On January 19, at 96. Attorney for over 72 years in New York City. Graduate of Brooklyn Law School, in private practice for most of his life and on the legal staff of the New York State Banking Department in the 1940's. New York Secretary to Congressman Emanuel Celler, long
 STERN-William. Beloved husband of Pauline. Dear brother of Sue Felstein, Esther and Phil Krieger, Beatrice Kessler, Ruby and Elaine Stern and Lillian Stern. Loving uncle. Committed social democrat and humanist. Served as executive secretary of the Workmen's Circle and on the boards of many 
 STRASBURG-Samuel. Of Lake Worth, FL and formerly of Yonkers, NY on Wednesday, January 17, 2001, shortly before his 96th birthday. Beloved husband of the late Irene, loving father of Philip and his wife, Roberta. Dearest grandfather of Donald Strasburg, Lauren and Scott Freifeld, doting grea
 UMANSKY-Charles. On January 18, 2001. Beloved husband of Ann Berdy, devoted father of Zachary and Emma Beth, dear son of Ralph and the late Bernice, loving brother of Eve Shelton-Jones. Service Sunday 9:30am at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. UMANSKY-Charles. The Congre
 Stan Freeman, the pianist, composer, comedian and writer who was a ubiquitous presence in New York nightclubs in 1950's and 60's, was found dead in his home in Los Angeles last Saturday. He was 80. A classically trained pianist, renowned wit and passionate musical theater archivist,
 Eddie Donovan, the Knicks' general manager who built the electrifying team that captured the 1970 National Basketball Association championship -- the first title in the club's history -- died yesterday in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 78. The cause was complications of a stroke, his fa
 Dr. Joseph L. Melnick, a founder of modern virology, a pioneer in polio research and a leader in environmental science, died on Jan. 7 in Houston, where he worked for more than 40 years at the Baylor College of Medicine. He was 86. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Dr. Ma
 C. Malcolm Watkins, a museum curator and collector of everyday objects who believed that American culture could be distilled in an earthenware teacup, died on Jan. 12 in Leesburg, Va. He was 89 and lived in Reston, Va. Mr. Watkins spent 31 years of his career at the Smithsonian Inst
 BARNES-Jack Kellers, 76, former VP of Dan River Mills died Jan 17, 2001 in Spartanburg, SC. A member of the Princeton Club in NY. He was a W.W. II veteran with the 100th Div. of the 7th Army, receiving the Purple Heart. Services were held in Spartanburg. Survived by wife, Margaret, daughter
 BLOOMER-Dr. William Ernest, (1916-2001), 84, of Pasadena, California, died Sunday January 14, at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center. His ten-year battle with cancer ended with his wife and children by his side. Dr. Bloomer was born in Denver Colorado, December 20, 1916, son of the late Char
 CHESSIN-Max, age 87, Friday, January 19, 2001, of Fairlawn, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Millie, loving father of Carolyn and her husband Wolf, Laurel and her husband David. Adored grandfather of Zachery and his wife Eileen, Joshua and his wife Mimi, Jason and Lanie. Dear brother of Lil,
 DAVIS-Leonard. The staff and Senior Fellows of the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics at the University of Pennsylvania mourn the loss of Leonard Davis. Along with his beloved wife, Sophie, Leonard Davis had the vision to recognize the coming changes in the nation's health care sys
 ECKELBERRY-Don R. Wildlife Artist 1921-2001. Acclaimed for his book plates and bird portraits. A noted ornithologist and environmentalist, he co-founded the Asa Wright Nature Centre in Trinidad. He is survived by loving wife Virginia Nepodal. Donations may be made to The Eckelberry Endowmen
 ESPOSITO-Mario J., Honorable. The officers, directors and staff of the American Parkinson Disease Association, Inc. (APDA) mourn the passing of the Honorable Mario J. Esposito on January 17, 2001. For much of his adult life, Mr. Esposito worked tirelessly and without recompense to find a cu
 FRAM-Stanley. Of North Bellmore, Long Island, passed away in Delray Beach, FL on January 13, 2001. Loving husband of Evelyn to whom he was married 51 years. Adored father of Steve (Becky) and Dan (Lara) Fram. Cherished grandfather of Jessica, Jacob, Jocelyn and Arissa. Great-grandfather of 
 FRIEDMAN-David L., 78. Of Aventura, Florida. passed away January 15, 2001. He is the beloved husband of Phoebe for 53 years. Loving father of Meryl and Van, Sigi and Ned. Proud Pop-Pop of Brette, Kirk, Margo and Lana. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Alzheimer's Association, 1175
 GEWANT-Dr. Sidney. 92, of Hollywood, FL, formerly of NY, passed away January 20, 2001. Dr. Gewant practiced dentistry in NYC for many years. He was predeceased by his loving wife Edythe. Survived by adored children Carole Gewant and Dr. Warren C. Gewant (Toby), cherished grandchildren Scott
 GIBBON-John, Ph.D. The faculty and staff of the New York State Psychiatric Institute mourn the loss of Dr. John Gibbon, a distinguished scholar and admired colleague. He started his career at the Institute in 1963 and was director of the Biopsychology Department from 1990 until his death. O
 KEMP-Frank B. 85, of Alexandria, VA. On December 13, 2000 in his sleep after a long illness. Former advertising executive and Media Director, Compton Advertising. A native of NYC and an MIT alumni. He is survived by his wife Ruth of Alexandria and son Peter of NYC.       
 KOEPPEL-Alfred J. Of New York City and Boca Raton, FL passed away on January 19, 2001 after a lengthy fight against cancer. Loving husband of Ruth, devoted father of Lynne and Caleb, Lesley and David, Sarah and Robert Cohn and the late Sherri. Adoring grandfather of Melissa, Kyle, Allison, 
 LEVINE-David. On January 17, in Paris, France. Beloved husband of Pam Buckner Levine. Loving father of Noah and Emma. Adored son of Sarah and the late Abraham, of Florida and Delaware. Cherished brother of Kenneth and his wife Anna, of Columbia, MD. Proud uncle of Rebecca and Adam. Dear son
 LORING-Richard J. Of Water Mill and Manhattan on January 19, 2001. Adored husband and best friend of Helga; father of Eric, father-in-law of Lynn. He was loved by many, and a special friend to all who knew him including Max. The family will be receiving friends on Saturday, January 27th bet
 McGIBBON-Thomas J. On January 18, 2001 of Toms River, NJ. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, NY on Sunday from 6PM to 9PM. Funeral mass Monday, 10:30AM, American Martyrs R.C. Church, Bayside, NY. Interment Belfa
 MILLER-Rev. John H. III. On January 18, 2001. Of Little Compton, RI. Son of the late John H. Miller, II and Harriet (Crane) Miller of Rumson, NJ. Devoted husband of Lora Elkinton Miller, loving father of Hope, Rhoads, and Edward Miller, brother of Talbott and David Miller. He served his cou
 POSNER-Hamilton. On January 19, 2001, in his 93rd year. Beloved husband of the late Rose Posner, devoted father of Maida and Harry, loving grandfather of Philip, Karen, Elisa. Dear brother of Jane Lane and Arthur Posner. Former President and owner of Posner Hair Products and Cosmetics. We w
 READ-David Haxton Carswell, D.D. Senior Minister of Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church from 1956 until his retirement December 31, 1989, and Pastor Emeritus until his death January 7, 2001. The death of the Rev. Dr. David H.C. Read is mourned by the members, friends, officers and staff of t
 REISS-Philip S. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane Reiss, Nancy Booke and Meg Reiss. Adored grandfather of Lena and Will Shefelman and Henry and Milo Booke. Dear brother of Barbara Hochfelder. Father-in-law of Nicho
 ROZBRUCH-Max. Died on the Sabbath of January 20, 2001, on his 83rd birthday; courageous at death as in life. Beloved and caring husband and best friend of Frieda, his wife of 55 years. Loving, devoted and revered father of Jacob, Alfie and Sandy. Adoring father-in-law to his girls Marsha, H
 SCHMITT-Eugene, D.D.S., age 80, formerly of Flushing, January 14, 2001, after a prolonged illness. Survived by his wife, Barbara Schmitt, two sons and a daughter (with late wife, Patti Jo), Karl, Kasey, and Karin Schmitt, and a grandson, Ethan Schmitt. After retiring from dentistry, resumed
 SOLOMON-Irving. On January 16, 2001. Beloved and devoted father of Robin of Brentwood, CA, his wife, the late Mildred Solomon, his son the late Steven Solomon and his Sister Miriam Friedman. He lived in Delray Beach, FL, and was formerly of East Rockaway, NY. He worked for Allied Stores for
 STERN-William. Beloved husband of Pauline. Dear brother of Sue Felstein, Esther and Phil Krieger, Beatrice Kessler, Ruby and Elaine Stern and Lillian Stern. Loving uncle. Committed social democrat and humanist. Served as executive secretary of the Workmen's Circle and on the boards of many 
 TEILLARD-Rene-Jean. Decorated hero of the French Resistance. Designer of hats, apartments and anything he touched. Beloved friend of many. After overcoming great pain, on January 8, 2001, at the age of 93. For details of memorial service, call 212-303-9513.       
 VLASKAMP - Joseph Arend. Brooklyn Meeting is saddened by the sudden death of Joseph Arend Vlaskamp, former General Secretary of New York Yearly Meeting. We value his service to the Religious Society of Friends and hold his wife, Lyn, and his family in the Light.       
 Dr. Stanley F. Yolles, who as the nation's top official on mental health in the 1960's denounced what he saw as ''stupid, punitive laws'' on drug use and was eventually forced out by the Nixon administration, died on Jan. 12 at University Hospital in Stony Brook, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in
 Eddie Donovan, the Knicks' general manager who built the electrifying team that captured the 1970 National Basketball Association championship -- the first title in the club's history -- died Saturday in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 78. The cause was complications of a stroke, his fam
 Joseph Pellegrino, an Italian immigrant who became an executive in the pasta industry and coined the popular slogan, ''Wednesday is Prince Spaghetti Day,'' died last Monday at his home in Hallandale, Fla. He was 95. Mr. Pellegrino was a former chief executive at the Prince Company i
 Norris Turney, a jazz saxophonist, clarinetist and flutist who played in the last incarnation of Duke Ellington's orchestra, died on Wednesday in Kettering, Ohio. He was 79. The cause was kidney failure, said his agent, Russ Dantzler. As heard on some of Ellington's last rec
 DAVIS-Leonard. Very few men pass this way who can match his generosity and integrity. We have lost a dear friend. To Alan, Michael and their families, our sincere sympathy. Charles and Muriel Kornheiser       
 DREZNICK-Henry. On January 20, 2001. Beloved husband of Rachelle. Beloved father of Dr. Jeffrey Dreznick, Dr. Elliott Dreznick and Lisa Dreznick Waller, Esq. Beloved father-in-law of Carol Fisher Dreznick, Esq., and Dr. Scott Waller. Beloved grandfather of Randa, Courtney, Stephen and Benja
 HERRON-Fred. Of Whiting, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, January 20, 2001. Surviving are his wife Catherine, four children, Msgr. Denis Herron, Fred Herron, Catherine Keevey, Margaret Duffy; eight grandchildren; two great grandchildren. Visiting hours Tuesday, 79, Wednesday, 2-4 and 7-9, Carmona-
 HUSSEY-George Jr. 80, retired President of National Standard Company Niles, died in Williamstown, Massachusetts, on January 19, 2001. His wife, Jean Gebhard Hussey and his brother C. Morgan Hussey predeceased him. He is survived by his wife, Nancy; seven children; fourteen grandchildren; an
 KOEPPEL-Alfred J. Of New York City and Boca Raton, Florida, passed away January 19, after battling cancer for over two years. The third generation in his family's business, where he worked for over 45 years, he emphasized the importance of dealing with others with respect and dignity in bot
 LORING-Richard J. Of Water Mill and Manhattan on January 19, 2001. Adored husband and best friend of Helga; father of Eric, father-in-law of Lynn. He was loved by many, and a special friend to all who knew him including Max. The family will be receiving friends on Saturday, January 27th bet
 MILLER-Rev. John H. III. On January 18, 2001. Of Little Compton, RI. Son of the late John H. Miller, II and Harriet (Crane) Miller of Rumson, NJ. Devoted husband of Lora Elkinton Miller, loving father of Hope, Rhoads, and Edward Miller, brother of Talbott and David Miller. He served his cou
 PELAVIN-Michael A. Of Delray Beach, FL (formerly of Flint, MI), died suddenly Friday, January 19, 2001. Funeral services will be held at Temple Beth El in Boca Raton, FL, on Monday, January 22, 2001. He is survived by his wife Natalie; children Gordon, Mark, daughterin-law Lori Morris; and 
 READ-David Haxton Carswell, D.D. Senior Minister of Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church from 1956 until his retirement December 31, 1989, and Pastor Emeritus until his death January 7, 2001. The death of the Rev. Dr. David H.C. Read is mourned by the members, friends, officers and staff of t
 REISS-Philip S. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on January 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane Reiss, Nancy Booke and Meg Reiss. Adored grandfather of Lena and Will Shefelman and Henry and Milo Booke. Dear brother of Barbara Hochfelder. Father-in-law of Nicho
 ROCKWELL-Charles Embree. 84, lifelong resident of Smithtown, on January 19, 2001. A pioneer in aviation, he was a board member of the Bank of Smithtown, the L.I. Museums, and the Smithtown Historical Society. Beloved father of Robin Markle Rockwell, Joan Lawrence Rockwell, Charles Embree Ro
 Thomas J. Mirabile, a retired justice of the New York State Supreme Court and a past member of the New York City Council, died Wednesday at a hospital in Mineola, N.Y., near his home. He was 92. He was born in Brooklyn on March 22, 1908 and received a degree in business administrati
 Byron De La Beckwith, whose 1994 conviction in the murder of a civil rights leader three decades earlier symbolized a transformation in Mississippi, died on Sunday night in Jackson, Miss. He was 80. Mr. Beckwith died at the University of Mississippi Medical Center shortly after he w
 Claude Victor Palisca, a musicologist who specialized in the Renaissance, died on Jan. 10 in New Haven. He was 79 and lived in New Haven. Mr. Palisca was one of the outstanding musical scholars of his generation. His particular interest was in the stylistic turning point that took p
 BEY-Samuel E. The Rabbis, staff and students of The Les Turchin Chabad House at Rutgers University mourn the passing of our esteemed friend Samuel E. Bey. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Mollie, and his children Stanley Bey, Arne Bey, and Sharyn Turchin, wife of our Honorary 
 BILLIG-Jules. The family of Jules Billig sadly announces his passing at age 92. Mr. Billig died at home on January 16, 2001. Respecting his wishes, no service will be held.       
 CLAY-Joseph A. of Douglaston, NY. On Sunday, January 21. Devoted husband of Agnes; beloved father of Barbara, Mary Jane, Patricia, Kathleen, and Suzanne. Joe was a retired Sr. Vice President of TWA and President of Air LaCarte; veteran of the US Army Air Force during World War II. Avid gard
 COLPITTS-Rev. Horace E. on January 18, 2001. Survived by his wife Lorraine, two sons, their wives and two granddaughters. Memorial at Staten Island Unitarian Church, Friday January 26 at 7:30pm.       
 FIEDLER-Leo. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished friend and member of our Administrative Committee. Beloved husband of our devoted member, Ruda Fiedler. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, Pres
 GOLDWASSER-Lawrence L. 84. Died January 20, 2001 at the University Hospital in Chapel Hill, NC, with his family by his side. Larry was born August 4, 1916 in Yonkers, NY, the son of Ida L. and Ben Goldwasser and graduated from Yale University's School of Fine Arts. After graduate school he 
 KAY-Bruce. GNYHA Services, Inc., mourns the passing of Bruce Kay, former Director of Pharmacy Services for Long Island Jewish Medical Center. Mr. Kay, who is also a consultant for North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System, was a deeply respected industry leader who will be remembered for 
 KOEPPEL-Alfred J. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Alfred Koeppel, a friend and supporter of this organization, whose life and good deeds are continued by his family. To his wife, Ruth; to his children, Lynne and Caleb, Lesley an
 LEWIN-Gordon, 61, of Pompton Plains, NJ, died on January 20. He was born in NYC and raised in Tucson, Arizona. He moved to Pompton Plains 29 years ago. He was a loving, dedicated father and is survived by 2 sons, Joseph of Hamilton, NJ and Steven of Pompton Plains, NJ. Mr. Lewin worked for 
 ONISHI-Hironori. The City College Department of Mathematics mourns the loss of our colleague and friend. Tako was a dedicated teacher and esteemed scholar whose commitment to his students and the life of the department will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to Clara, Christine and Ka
 PARKOLA-Sam. Of West Palm Beach Florida passed away on January 20, 2001. He was born in and spent most his life in the NYC area. He was well-known as an exceptional craftsman. He was predeceased by his loving wife Rose in 1981. Survivors include daughter Deena Birnbaum (David) of San Diego;
 PELAVIN-Michael A. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees mourn with profound sorrow the sudden and untimely death of Michael Pelavin, a member of our Board of Directors for more than two decades. Michael was a cherished friend, who unders
 READ-David Haxton Carswell, D.D. Senior Minister of Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church from 1956 until his retirement December 31, 1989, and Pastor Emeritus until his death January 7, 2001. The death of the Rev. Dr. David H.C. Read is mourned by the members, friends, officers and staff of t
 ROUX-Jaky. On January 19, 2001, age sixty-four, of Oyster Bay, L.I. and Lyon, France. Beloved husband of Jacqueline. Devoted father of Julie. Survived by his mother Marthe Deloule, his step-father Robert Deloule, and his brother Patrick Deloule. A man of character, charisma, and courage. He
 ROZBRUCH-Max. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Max Rozbruch, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Jacob Rozbruch, M.D., a distinguished member of
 SCHEER-William N. Age 92. On January 21st of Verona, NJ. He was the owner of William N. Scheer Advertising Agency Inc. in South Orange, NJ. He is survived by his wife, Lodzia H., sons, Norman and Steven, brother, Sidney, five grandchildren, Mark, Lisa, Suzanne, Edward and Marnie, six great-
 SCHWARTZ-Dr. Nathaniel. 83 years old. Died peacefully on January 20, 2001 after a long and courageous fight with Parkinson's Disease. Nat was a respected dentist who was deeply loved by his family, friends and patients. Survivors include daughters Harriett (Jay) Glassman, Susan (Kenneth) Wh
 SHAPIRO-Irving. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our dear friend, Irving Shapiro, a member of our National Commission. A longtime Chair of ADL's Middle East Committee, Irving was dedicated to peace and security for the Jewish State. A committed and steadfast leader for thirt
 STERN-William M. The Officers, Trustees and staff of the Educational Alliance note with profound sadness the passing of William M. Stern, our dedicated trustee from 1973 to 2000. Will served on various program and standing committees throughout his tenure. It was only after he moved to Flor
 Tommie Agee, the center fielder who made two of the most spectacular catches in World Series history in propelling the Mets to their stunning 1969 championship, died yesterday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58. Agee had a heart attack while leaving a Midtown office buildi
 Einar Gustafson, who plucked heartstrings as a 12-year-old cancer patient identified as Jimmy on a national radio program and then vanished for a half-century, only to reappear as a champion of what had become the Jimmy Fund, died of a stroke Sunday at a hospital in Caribou, Me. He was 65. 
 Joe Schaefer, a hockey statistician and amateur goalie who lived out the fantasy of countless fans when he was twice summoned during games at Madison Square Garden in the early 1960's as an emergency replacement when the Rangers' regular goalie was hurt, died Dec. 27 in Ladson, S.C. He was 
 ARENTZEN-Harvey. Our Partners, Attorneys and entire staff join our partner, Roger Arentzen, in mourning the loss of his beloved father on January 19, 2001. We extend our condolences to him, his sister Glenda and brother Peter and other members of the family and hope that their father's memo
 BRANN-Bob. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of beloved friend and colleague, Bob Brann, who served the company as an usher for nearly half a century. His Met career began at the Old House in 1953 and continued through this season, spanning nearly 14,000 performances. A fixture at his
 FIEDLER-Leo. We will dearly miss Leo, a fine true gentle man. Our sincere condolences to his precious selfless Ruda, his devoted children, David, Marvin, and Sima, and Nikki, his adoring grandchildren and great grandchildren. Reva and Marty Oliner       
 GERSON-Philip. We mourn the passing of our friend, our colleague and a deeply committed litigator, Philip Gerson, who at 35 years of age died on January 22. We send our deepest conolences to his wife, Beth, and his son Timothy, daughter Laura, and the rest of his family at this tragic time.
 HOADLEY-Philemon N. On January 22, 2001 of Douglas Manor, NY. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Loving father of Deborah and Jennifer. Devoted grandfather Tucker. His kind and gentle soul will remain in our hearts forever. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Boulevard, Manhas
 HOENER-Diethelm Bernd, age 60, died unexpectedly on January 17 at his vacation home, ''La Fleuriere'' in Cannes. Mr. Hoener was a financier, a philanthropist, and a noted collector of German expressionist art. Born in Allenstein, Germany, he graduated from the University of Koeln with a Mas
 HOFFMAN-Arnold August. Born December 2, 1912, passed away January 13, 2001. Arnold August Hoffman was the man of the hour, the man of the year, the man of the millenium-a man for all times and all seasons, a true Rennaissance man, and a true friend to one and all. He was an avid horseman, j
 KAY-Bruce. GNYHA Services, Inc., mourns the passing of Bruce Kay, former Director of Pharmacy Services for Long Island Jewish Medical Center. Mr. Kay, who was also a consultant for North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System, was a deeply respected industry leader who will be remembered for
 KOEPPEL-Alfred J. Of New York City and Boca Raton, Florida, passed away January 19, after battling cancer for over two years. The third generation in his family's real estate business, where he worked for over 45 years, he emphasized the importance of dealing with others with respect and di
 MARGOLIS-Dr. Benjamin. Beloved friend-teacher-supervisoranalyst. The Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies, its Board of Directors, faculty, and students mourn with deep sadness and loss the passing of Dr. Benjamin Margolis, a founder of the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies, a me
 MITCHELL-William A. (Bill). Beloved husband of Tittica Roberts Mitchell, died peacefully on Sunday morning, January 21, 2001, at Grant Medical Center in Columbus, Ohio. Adoring father of Mark Stuart Mitchell (Sue) and Carol Mitchell Cuoco (Michael) and worshipping grandfather of Kelly, Bria
 REGAN-Thomas P. Sunday, January 21, 2001, age 56, at home in Chestnut Hill, PA, after a five-year battle with prostate cancer. Dear son of the late Bridget and Michael. Beloved husband of Janet (Wardle). Devoted father of Michael and Timothy. Fond brother of Anne, Mary, Buddy and Eileen. Al
 REYNOLDS-Edward A. Of New York City died Jan. 21, 2001. Principal of West Side High School. Brother of John, George, Mary & Dorothy. Predeceased by his parents John W. & Dorothy & dear friend Marie Bronshvag. Friends may call at F. Ruggiero & Sons, 726 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, N.Y. Thursd
 TAI-Yuan Shing. January 22, 2001. Beloved husband of Jane, devoted uncle of Peter Chin, Deborah Lor, Bruce Todd, Gregor Todd and Courtney Kiley. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Wednesday, January 24, 7 to 9 PM. Memorial service to be announced at a later
 UMANSKY-Charles. Manhattan Day School/Yeshiva Ohr Torah records with profound sorrow the passing of Charles Umansky, assistant principal for general studies from 1998 to 2000. He is remembered for his highly professional manner and his popularity with the student body. We extend our condole
 William A. Stern, a former executive director of the Workmen's Circle who worked for socialist and Jewish cultural causes for nearly seven decades, died Thursday at a hospice in Tamarac, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Coconut Creek, Fla. Mr. Stern was also a former president of the For
 Clayton W. Fritchey, a syndicated columnist who also had a long career in public service at the White House, the Pentagon and the United Nations, died on Tuesday at Sibley Hospital here. He was 96. Mr. Fritchey was admitted to the hospital after a fall in his home on Saturday.      
 Frederick B. Adams Jr., a renowned bibliophile and the director of the Morgan Library in Manhattan for more than two decades, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Chisseaux, France. He was 90 and also had a home in Paris. In 1948, Mr. Adams succeeded Belle da Costa Greene as director of th
 BERGER-Joseph H., 79. Beloved husband of Harriet (Balaban), loving father of Vicki (Safran), Michelle (Price), and Andrew. Adoring grandfather of Samantha, Keri, Melissa, and Jodi. Special fatherin-law of Bruce Safran and Randi Berger, and wonderful twin brother of David. Loved by all his n
 BURSTEIN-Morris M. In his 97th year. Beloved father of Naomi Max and Alice Burstein, grandfather of Yehuda Shraga and Tzipora Deena Burstein, father-in-law of Judith Burstein and Israel Max. He was much loved and will be greatly missed. Funeral services January 25, 9:00 A.M. at Garlick Kirs
 EBIN-Milton, DDS. On January 23, 2001. Born and raised in New York, Dr. Ebin practiced dentistry for many years in NY. He was a Veteran of the Army during World War II, serving in the European campaign at Ardennes, the Rhineland and Central Europe. Dr. Ebin is survived by his daughter Linda
 GOLD-Murray, 70, of Great Neck. Devoted husband of Anne Feinstein Gold, beloved father of Deborah Goldberg, Pamela, Kenneth and Leonard. Loving grandfather of eight. Active member of Great Neck Synagogue and Palm Beach Synagogue. Services today at 10AM at Riverside-Nassau Chapel of Great Ne
 LONG-Harry. Born April 15, 1912, died January 24, 2001. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather, passed yesterday after a valiant struggle with heart disease and its attendant difficulties. Harry leaves behind a legacy of commitment, wisdom and knowledge, business acumen 
 MARGOLIS-Dr. Benjamin. It is with profound sadness that the Board of Directors, students and faculty of the Mid-Manhattan Institute for Psychoanalysis mourn the death of a pioneer of Modern Psychoanalysis, Dr. Benjamin David Margolis. He was a brilliant communicator of modern psychoanalytic
 O'SULLIVAN-Rev. Martin J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired chaplain of Ozanam Hall Residence on January 22. Reposing in Ozanam Hall, 42-41 201 St, Bayside, Thursday, January 25 from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 PM. Wake service at Ozanam Hall, January 25 at 8 PM. Funeral Mass
 REYNOLDS-Edward A. (10/09/441/21/01). Beloved principal of West Side High School for over 25 years. Surviving Ed are the thousands of students whose lives he has changed and whose hearts he has healed. Our entire community grieves the passing of this loyal Yankee fan, this tender-hearted ge
 SCHNIER-Alex. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights New York mourns the passing of our beloved member Alex Schnier. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Eileen and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 TAI-Yuan Shing. January 22, 2001. Beloved husband of Jane, devoted uncle of Peter Chin, Deborah Lor, Bruce Todd, Gregor Todd and Courtney Kiley. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Wednesday, January 24, 7 to 9 PM. Memorial service to be announced at a later
 TOSCANI-Frank E., Col. Ret. Beloved husband of Dolores, father of Francesca Webber and Frank E. Toscani, Jr., brother of Louise Villa and grandfather of Anita Toscani. His wartime accomplishments inspired the John Hersey novel, ''A Bell for Adano.'' Wake at Assumma - Shankey Funeral Home, P
 Sol Libsohn, an early documentary photographer whose images of ordinary Americans appeared in many national publications, died on Sunday in Princeton, N.J. He was 86. A New Yorker by birth, Mr. Libsohn taught himself how to take pictures after a neighbor gave him a Kodak Brownie. Af
 Alfred A. Allegretti, who transformed his father's one-truck oil dealership beside the Gowanus Canal into one of the largest heating oil companies in the New York metropolitan area, died Jan. 13 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in the Bay Ridge nei
 Charles Mrieux, a virologist whose visionary understanding of mass vaccine cultivation and disease-fighting logistics turned a relatively modest family microbiology laboratory into an international engine for public health, died Saturday in Lyon, France, his hometown. He was 94. A
 AUFHAUSER-Fred E., 81, of Boca Raton, FL., died January 24. He is survived by his loving family, wife Lore of 52 years, daughters Vicky Aufhauser Stein of Seattle, WA., and Susan Aufhauser Soifer of Teaneck, NJ; son-in-law Matthew Soifer and three grandchildren Shira, Eliana and Terri. Fune
 DeGRATTO-Patrick. The entire Continuum Health Partners, Inc. family joins with the department of finance in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Patrick DeGratto, father of Frank DeGratto, Corporate Vice President for Patient Financial Services. We extend our heartfelt condolences to F
 EISENBERG-Dr. William. The medical staff of NYU Downtown Hospital is deeply saddened by the loss of Dr. William Eisenberg, Director of Ophthalmology and member of the medical staff since 1983. We mourn his passing and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Steven Brandeis,
 HANNA-Robert J. On January 24, 2001 at age 49. Senior V.P. of Prudential Securities. Beloved son of Mary and the late Joseph Hanna. Beloved brother of Maryellen Linen, Kathleen Norman and Joseph Hanna. Cherished partner of 16 years to Kevin Lonergan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 IMPELLIZERI-Mario E. Pension consultant Mario E. Impellizeri died January 18 in Fort Lauderdale FL. He was 84. He resided in Westhampton Beach NY and Fort Lauderdale FL. Mr. Impellizeri, cofounder of the Pension Research Studies Group at Manhattan College, co-wrote ''The Mirage of Private P
 LEIFER-Joel. Beloved husband of Doris, devoted father of Elyse and Yaakov Anker, David, Mark and Ann Marie Lieberman, Shari and Amos Balaish and Mitchell and Bethany Lieberman. Dear brother of Simone and Alan Wildstein and Adrienne and Alvin Bodenstein. Caring grandfather of Andrew, Jake, S
 MARTIN-Edward John. Of Florida and New York, 90, suddenly on January 22, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Katherine (nee Bennett). Survivors include his wife, Grace B. Schwefel Martin. Devoted father of Edward, Katherine, Elizabeth and Patricia, Karen S. Butler and Charles Schwefel, 7 gran
 MUDGE-Shaw. Founder and Chairman of Shaw Mudge & Company in Shelton, CT. Died suddenly Tuesday evening, January 23, 2001. He was at home with his wife, Patricia Grant Mudge. In addition to his wife, Shaw Mudge, 77, is survived by two sons, The Reverend Shaw Mudge, Jr. of Walton, NY and Gran
 REYNOLDS-Edward A. (10/09/441/21/01). Beloved principal of West Side High School for over 25 years. Surviving Ed are the thousands of students whose lives he has changed and whose hearts he has healed. Our entire community grieves the passing of this loyal Yankee fan, this tender-hearted ge
 SCOTT-John Francis (Jack). Born in NYC, September 4, 1919. Long time resident of Centerport, NY. Piloted thirty-five missions over Europe in WWII. Captain for Pan American for thirty-four years. Preceded in death by Susan Thomson Ferrier, his wife, of fiftyfive years and their daughter, Sus
 TAI-Yuan Shing. The American Heart Association in New York City mourns the passing of Mr. Yuan Tai. Mr. Tai and his family have been longtime friends of our mission. Over the years, their generosity has supported our heart disease and stroke programs to save lives from heart disease and str
 TRENT-Philip, 93. Died peacefully in his bed at The Actors' Fund Home on January 24, 2001. Devoted and beloved father of Peter Trent, father-in-law of May Wong Trent, grandfather of Christopher and Mary Helen, husband of the late Isabel Carson and the late Estelle Fohrmeister. His kind and 
 Robert Warren Morse, scientist emeritus at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, who helped build the Polaris missile submarine as well as Case Western Reserve University, died on Friday at a nursing home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 79 and lived in North Falmouth. The cause was em
 Al McGuire, a New York original whose 20 years as a college head coach and 23 years as a brash and feisty television analyst landed him in the Basketball Hall of Fame, died yesterday in Milwaukee. He was 72. McGuire had suffered from leukemia, said a longtime friend, Norman Ochs, an
 Lloyd M. Schwan Jr., an American furniture and interior designer who brought an artist's eye for bold color and form and a lively wit to the craft of design in the 1980's and 90's, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Kutztown, Pa. He was 45. He committed suicide, his family said.        
 Prof. Oliver Robert Gurney, an Oxford classicist and a leading scholar of the Hittites, whose ancient civilization he began to study when most of it seemed lost to history, died in Oxford on Jan. 11. He was 86. The Hittites flourished about 1600 to 1200 B.C., in an empire that stret
 BALK-Hal. Husband of Beverly. Father of Deborah and Jill. Grandfather of Jenna & Chelsea. Sister of Lola Marcus. Active in formation and past president of ACLD. Career in advertising. Services at Gutterman's, Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, New York, Sunday, January 28, 10 AM. BALK-Hal.
 BERGER-Jeffrey W., M.D., Ph.D., January 25, 2001. Husband of Karen (nee Feiwus) of Cherry Hill, NJ. Father of Adina Berger, Tamar Berger and Joseph Berger. Son of Jacob and Eva (nee Meltz) Berger. Brother of Alan Berger and Arlene Meisner. Services Sunday 12:00 noon, Platt Memorial Chapels 
 BLOCK-Harris. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing on January 24, 2001 of Harris Block. A valued & respected client for many years, he was admired, honored and held in high esteem by every member of our firm. A man of integrity, highly intelligen
 BRESLOW-Murray H. Retired Police Lieutenant. Died Wednesday, January 24, 2001. He is survived by his son Warren and daughter Audrey, and their spouses. He is also survived by four grandsons. Services Sunday, 9 AM, Hellman Memorial Chapels, 15 State Street, Spring Valley, N.Y. Interment to f
 COHEN-Leo. Beloved father of Mark & Roberta Cohen and Rabbi Mitchell & Cari Cohen. Cherished Papa of Hanna, Yaakov, Rivka, Talia, Danit & Noam. Dear brother of Anne Bodner and Lily Kreitzer. Shiva will be observed through Thursday morning. COHEN-Leo. Founding member and devoted frie
 FIRETOG-Max E. On January 26, 2001, of Roslyn Heights, LI. Beloved husband of Ilene Volk. Devoted father of Neil and Helene, Ted and Kathy, Robin and Bruce Glanzberg. Adored grandfather of Adam, Heather, Emily, Philip, Jordan, Meredith, Lauren and Trevor. Services Sunday 10:30 AM at Temple 
 GLADSTONE-James Zadoc. 77, died peacefully at home on January 25, 2001, after a long battle with cancer. He leaves his loving wife Nancy (Wolf), his three children, Carol, Bill, and Stephen, their spouses and four grandchildren. Graduate of Yale College and Columbia University, he lived wit
 HANNA-Robert J. On January 24, 2001 at age 49. Senior V.P. of Prudential Securities. Beloved son of Mary and the late Joseph Hanna. Beloved brother of Maryellen Linen, Kathleen Norman and Joseph Hanna. Cherished partner of 16 years to Kevin Lonergan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 KOHN-William Eli. Of New City, NY on January 25, 2001. Prominent architect in Rockland, Westchester and tri-state area. Survived by his wife Sandra Pochapin-Kohn of New City, NY, three daughters, Deborah (Harvey) Schutzbank of Scarsdale, NY, Lisa Kohn of Haverstraw, NY and Judith Kohn of Ha
 LUSCHINSKY-Heinz L., MD. On Sunday, January 21, 2001. Born in 1910 in Hamburg, Germany. Came to this country as a political refugee in 1940. Senior attending physician at French Hospital and later Roosevelt Hospital in NYC. Among the very first to introduce and practice the Lamaze Method of
 MARGOLIS-Dr. Benjamin. The Society of Modern Psychoanalysts mourn the loss of Dr. Benjamin Margolis in his 95th year. He was a loved and esteemed psychoanalyst. His analysands, supervisees and the whole community of modern analysts benefitted from his teaching. Ira Jacobs, President Ruth S.
 MUDGE-Shaw. National Small Business United mourns the loss of Shaw Mudge. Shaw was an extraordinary small business activist who deployed his amazing network of friends and contacts to the benefit of the entire small business community. A founding board member, Shaw was designated as Trustee
 More than 2,000 people paid tribute yesterday to former Mayor John V. Lindsay under the soaring ceiling of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, the place he himself had chosen to be remembered in by a city that he for a time inspired, angered and defined. A pantheon of the city's p
 Don Richard Eckelberry, a prolific illustrator who was one of the country's foremost bird painters, died Jan. 14 in Bay Shore, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Babylon, N.Y. He died of respiratory failure after surgery, said his wife, Virginia. Al Gilbert, past president of the S
 Edward Dimock, an influential scholar of Indian studies and an emeritus professor at the University of Chicago, died Jan. 11 at his home in Centerville, Mass. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Jennifer Leovy, a spokeswoman for the university. ''Edward Dimock almost singl
 Ernst Bulova, who created a freewheeling, freethinking summer camp in Connecticut that attracted thousands of teenagers, many from left-leaning New York City backgrounds, died on Jan. 11 at his home in New Milford, Conn., on the camp grounds. He was 98. The camp's philosophy followe
 Frank E. Toscani, who as the American military governor of a small Sicilian town during World War II replaced a cherished 700-year-old bell that Mussolini had had melted for munitions, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Pearl River, N.Y. The town, 
 BALISH-Leonard. Beloved husband of Jacquelyn. Artist, photographer, antique dealer. Born in NYC August 12, 1921. Died suddenly at his home in Englewood, NJ, on January 24. Mr. Balish was a veteran of the Army Air Corps World War II 1941-1945. Student at the Art Students League. His photogra
 BLOCK-Harris. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing on January 24, 2001 of Harris Block. A valued & respected client for many years, he was admired, honored and held in high esteem by every member of our firm. A man of integrity, highly intelligen
 DZIUBAN-Stanley J. ''Stan'' of New London, Ct. Formerly of Yonkers died November 12, 2000. He was 88. Stan was a certifed New York State CPA employed by United States Underwater Cable. He was a loving father to Lisa Ishimuro, Peter Dziuban and Nancy Balph. Beloved brother of Marie Dziuban o
 EISENBERG-Dr. William. His colleagues and patients mourn the premature loss of a talented eye surgeon and a caring physician. He will be rememberd fondly. Our deepest sympathies to the family.       
 FEIGENBAUM-George. Former member of the Baltimore Bullets and Milwaukee Hawks of the National Basketball Association (NBA), and member of the NBA Retired Basketball Association, died on December 26, 2000. In 1946 George graduated from New Utrecht High School in New York City and was selecte
 FELDMAN-Victor. Former employee of The New York Times passed away in his home in Canaan, New York, on January 14, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Phyllis, devoted daughters, Lisa Feldman Reich, Julie Feldman, son-in-law Fred Reich and grandchildren, Aaron Feldman Reich and Claire Fe
 GLADSTONE-James Zadoc. 77, died peacefully at home on January 25, 2001, after a long battle with cancer. He leaves his loving wife Nancy (Wolf), his three children, Carol, Bill, and Stephen, their spouses and four grandchildren. Graduate of Yale College and Columbia University, he lived wit
 HANNA-Robert J. On January 24, 2001 at age 49. Senior V.P. of Prudential Securities. Beloved son of Mary and the late Joseph Hanna. Beloved brother of Maryellen Linen, Kathleen Norman and Joseph Hanna. Cherished partner of 16 years to Kevin Lonergan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 HEGYI-Milton T. 84, of Hallandale, FL, formerly of Mount Vernon, NY, died on January 17, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth (Levinson). Adored father of Pamela Hoffman, Carolyn Kaller and Joyce Pines. Cherished grandfather of Jeremy, Benjamin, Zachary, Samuel and Jed. Dear brother of Robert Hegy
 JORDAN-Tony (Canio Cerreta) Known for work in the early years of live television as Associate Producer of the Ed Sullivan Show, Tony Jordan, (80) died peacefully on January 23rd in Franklin, TN. For almost 30 years Tony helped bring to TV such renowned acts as The Beatles at Shea Stadium an
 MALTONI-Cesare. The Executive and Fellows of the Collegium Ramazzini mark with great sadness the passing of the General Secretary of our organization, Professor Cesare Maltoni age 70, at his home in Bologna, Italy on January 21, 2001. Professor Maltoni was a distinguished pathologist and on
 SHAPIRO-Robin. Died Saturday, January 20, 2001 at age 79. His strength, character, grace and sense of humor will be sorely missed by his wife, children, grandson, extended family, many friends and all those whose lives he touched.       
 SICHROVSKY-Karel. On December 11, 2000, age 76, of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved husband of Marie (nee Sarafianos) for 42 years. Dear brother-in-law of James and Viginia McCrory. Loving uncle of Thomas (Marlene), Gail (Willard), Nancy (Anthony) and Amy (Vincent). Fond great-uncle of Kelly, Core
 SYPHER-Robert M., Jr. It is with deep sorrow and affection that we record the passing on January 18, 2001 of our member and past President (1955) and son of our Past President Robert M. Sypher Sr. (1943) of the General Society of Mechanics & Tradesmen of the City of New York. For many years
 PERLBINDER-Arnold. January 28, 1994. His charisma, love, and strength, sustained us as we forever grieve. The Famil       
 Yozo Hamaguchi, a Japanese-born artist known for his work in mezzotint engraving, a technique he was introduced to by the poet E. E. Cummings, died in Tokyo on Dec. 25. He was 91. Mr. Hamaguchi trained as an artist in Japan and at 21 moved to Paris, where he mingled with the interna
 David Samuel Liederman, who spoke for children and families as the head of major umbrella groups for child welfare organizations, died Jan. 12 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said the Council on Accreditation for Children and Fa
 George Wesley Santos, a pioneer in the development of bone marrow transplants, died Jan. 21 at a hospital in Arlington, Tex. A former resident of Phoenix, Md., he was 72 and lived on Hilton Head Island, S.C., in retirement. The cause was pneumonia, suffered while he was undergoing t
 John Francis Vorisek, who had a long career in movie production in New York, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Matawan, N.J. He was 75. Mr. Vorisek was a founding partner and president of Trans/Audio Inc., a postproduction sound studio in Manhattan. He and his partners started the compa
 Leo Marks, who played a major role in Britain's sabotage operations against Nazi Germany in World War II as the chief designer of codes used by agents behind enemy lines, died Jan. 15. He was 80. In July 1940, Churchill created the Special Operations Executive and ordered it to ''se
 BLOCK-Harris. The Levinsohn and Posner families deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and partner, Harris Block. Harris was a true gentleman and a man of the highest integrity. We will miss him and will carry his memory in our hearts and thoughts. He was a wonderful role model and a b
 DAVIDMAN-Isidore. 74, of Boca Raton, FL, and Hopewell Junction, NY, died on January 27, 2001. He will be missed by his family and friends. He is survived by his devoted wife Irene, loving daughter Annette and husband Ted, loving son Stephen and wife Barbara. Three granddaughters Erin, Saman
 GRETZER-Franklin. We mourn the loss of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Dr. Richard Storm, President       
 KABRAM-Leonard. 65, of Weston, FL, died on January 26, 2001. He is survived by his loving family; wife, Patrice; daughters, Karen (Steve) Margol, Lisa Kabram. Grandchildren Ian, Matthew and Allison. Sister Dindy Weinstein. He was an Active Guardian Ad Litem for the Department of Children Se
 PASCAL-Oscar, M.D. Passed away January 28, after a long illness. He is predeceased by his first wife, May Berley. He was a caring father of Barbara and Thomas. Loving and devoted husband of Billie Kraus Pascal. Brother of Irving and Victoria and the late Jack and Pauline. He was a distingui
 Rino M. Monti, the construction manager of the World Trade Center and later the director of engineering and chief engineer of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on Jan. 14 in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 71 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He died of a series of serious illnes
 Sandy Baron, the stand-up comic, actor and songwriter perhaps best known in recent years for his recurring role on ''Seinfeld'' as Jack Klompus, the nemesis of Seinfeld's father, Morty, died on Jan. 21 at a nursing home in Los Angeles. Mr. Baron, who lived in the Van Nuys section of the cit
 Curt Blefary, the Baltimore Oriole outfielder who was the American League's rookie of the year in 1965, two years after the Yankees allowed him to be claimed from their farm system, died Sunday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 57. The cause was pancreatitis, his family said
 Douglas Howcroft Mazonowicz, a graphic artist who helped preserve some of the world's most famous prehistoric cave paintings by recreating them on silk, died on Sunday in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 80. Born in Swindon, in Wiltshire, England, Mr. Mazonowicz spent 15 years in France
 John Biggers, a painter, printmaker and sculptor known for his meticulous depictions of African and African-American life, died on Thursday at his home in Houston. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said Carl Ards, Mr. Biggers's brother-in-law. Mr. Biggers's art, often
 FISHMAN-Noah. On Sunday, January 21, 2001. Born October 2, 1909. Retired New York City teacher and principal. Lover of music and literature. Survived by loving wife Lillian, and will be sorely missed by his family, friends and community.       
 FULDA-Leo. The Jewish Center mourns the untimely passing of the father of its member, Yocheved Rogosnitzky. May his entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 GLYNN-Thomas B., age 96, died Saturday, January 27th, 2001 at the Norwalk Hospital. Born January 1st, 1905 in Boston, Massachusetts. He lived in Greens Farms, CT. for over 70 years. He graduated from Harvard University in 1929. Mr. Glynn was a lifelong horseman and polo enthusiast. He is su
 GOTTESMAN-Jay. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel, mourns the loss of its beloved member Jay Gottesman and extends heartfelt condolences to his mother Audrey Gottesman. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland, Cantor Shayna Smith Carol J. Green, President       
 HUNTER-James Ray, on January 27, 2001. Brother of Mary Jane Durazo. Godfather of Zoe Rosen. Predeceased in death by his parents, Loy Ray and Edith, and his brother, Steven Loy Hunter. Longtime volunteer for G.M.H.C. and S.A.G.E. Memorial service Thursday, 11 AM, at Reddens Funeral Home, 325
 KRUGMAN - Hyman. Distin guished New York attorney, died on January 27. He served in the Judge Advocate's Office during World War II. He is survived by his sister and brother-in-law Belle and Irving Rosenkranz, Beach, FL., and daughter, Ellen FriedmanKrasner and grandchildren.       
 McCADDIN-Henry V. Suddenly on January 27, 2001, of Summit, NJ. Husband of Alice (nee Joyce) McCaddin. Father of Mary Sanders, Alice, Henry, Hazel, Robert and John. He is also survived by 11 grandchildren and two brothers, Robert McCaddin & James McNamara. A Mass of Christian Burial will be 
 OLSON-Glenn. Passed away on January 29, 2001, age 75. He was a former dancer with The Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and numerous Broadway musicals. He is survived by brother Alfred Olson and sister Mildred Olson and life partner Marc Austen. His kind and loving presence will be missed by all 
 SAVOY-Marie Jose, 94, on Saturday, January 27, 2001, in Geneva, Switzerland. The delegate and the American members of the dynastic orders of the Royal House of Savoy record with deep sorrow the passing of Her Majesty Queen Marie Jose of Savoy, last Queen of Italy, beloved mother of our Gran
 VALEN-Herbert. Of Del Mar, Calif. (formerly of Westport, CT.). Died on January 27, 2001 at age 82. A former gag writer for The New Yorker magazine, he is survived by his wife, Felice Holman Valen, his daughter, Nanine Valen, son-inlaw Gerald Levinson, and grandsons Aaron Valen Levinson and 
 DE ROUSSY DE SALES-Aymon. In loving memory of Count Aymon de Roussy de Sales. The Eucharist will be celebrated and the prayer of his beloved family and friends will be offered on Wednesday, January 31 at 5:30PM at St. Joseph's Church in Greenwich Village, 371 6th Avenue, 2 blocks south of 8
 Richard S. MacNeish, a tireless archaeologist renowned for his investigations into the origins of corn and rice and for his provocative conclusions, died on Jan. 16 in Belize. He was 82 and lived in Andover, Mass., during the brief periods when he was not on an expedition. He died o
 Alexander Spears III, who joined other top tobacco executives in testifying before Congress in 1994 that they did not believe nicotine was addictive or caused disease, died on Monday of lung cancer at Duke Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 68. His wife, Shirley Pierce Spears of 
 Charles F. Kiley Sr., a former editor in chief of The New York Law Journal, died on Saturday at his home in Westfield, N.J. He was 87. Mr. Kiley oversaw The Law Journal's news coverage from 1967 until he retired in 1989. He was born in Jersey City. Early in his career, he sp
 Jean-Pierre Aumont, a popular French actor whose 65-year career included romantic roles in Hollywood, dramatic parts on Broadway and an intense life onstage and on screen in France, died on Tuesday at his home in Saint-Tropez. He was 90. Born in Paris on Jan. 5, 1911, as Jean-Pierre
 Lou Levy, a West Coast jazz pianist best known as an accompanist to leading jazz singers, died on Jan. 23 at the home of a friend, the musician Max Bennett, in Dana Point, Calif. He was 72 and lived in North Hollywood. The cause was a heart attack, said Kathy Levy, his former wife. 
 FISHMAN-William Harold. Born in Winnipeg, March 2, 1914, died in La Jolla, Calif., January 25, 2001. Scientist and cancer researcher & founder of the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation, now the Bernham Institute. A private funeral has been held. He is survived by his wife, Lillian (nee Wat
 GOLDBERG-Melvin J. Of Stamford, CT., and Lebanon, CT. Died suddenly on January 27 in the Galapagos Islands. Beloved husband of the late Louise Schanzer Goldberg. He is survived by his four children, David, Richard, Martin & Ruth & his eight grandchildren, Douglas, Allison, Susan, Becky, Jul
 KWARTIN-Dr. Paul, West Hartford, CT January 29, 2001. Born, Budapest, Hungary, June 12, 1912 to Sonia Gore Kwartin and Cantor Bernard Kwartin. Survived by his wife, Roslyn Schaeffer Kwartin, their daughters and sons-in-law, Susan and Allen Kallor, Karen and Bob Bonifacio, and grandchildren,
 ROYDEN-Sidney Alexander. Beloved husband of Paula. Devoted father of Janine Blasen and Adrienne. Dear brother of Florence Basuk, Gloria Shore and Judy Lambert. Cherished grandfather of Rachel and David. Dearest cousin of Isaac Zweifler. He was an educator, a loyal Free Mason and a man for a
 SIEGEL-Louis, M.D. We are profoundly saddened by the death of our beloved brother-in-law and uncle Dr. Louis Siegel, who passed away on Monday, January 29. Our hearts go out to his most devoted wife Pearl, his loving son Burton (Suzanne), daughter Rosalie (Jeffrey) and Ellen, and his most p
 UNTERMYER-Samuel II. Born in New York City, November 25, 1912 died of natural causes at the age of 88. He graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1934. Served in the Navy as an Engineering Officer in WWII. Married Joan Silvia Gray who preceded him in death. Mr. Untermyer inv
 VAN EES-Donald. 80, on January 26, 2001, after a prolonged and agonizing illness endured with equanimity and great courage. Requiescat in Pace. Remembered always by his wife, Evelyn and his son, Van.       
 DE ROUSSY DE SALES-Aymon. In loving memory of Count Aymon de Roussy de Sales. The Eucharist will be celebrated and the prayer of his beloved family and friends will be offered on Wednesday, January 31 at 5:30PM at St. Joseph's Church in Greenwich Village, 371 6th Avenue, 2 blocks south of 8
