 Craig Hugh Smyth, an art historian who drew attention to the importance of conservation and the recovery of purloined art and cultural objects, died on Dec. 22 in Englewood, N.J. He was 91 and lived in Cresskill, N.J. The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, Alexandra, said.     
 Dennis Linde, an influential and publicity-shy country songwriter who composed Elvis Presley's soulful 1972 hit ''Burning Love'' and the Dixie Chicks' mordantly humorous 1999 anthem ''Goodbye Earl,'' died on Dec. 22 in Nashville. He was 63. The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosi
 Johnny Gibson, a former world-record holder in the 400-meter hurdles and a highly successful track coach at Seton Hall University for 26 years, died Friday in a nursing home in Newton, N.J. He was 101. His death was announced by his son Thomas. Gibson's best year as an athle
 CRAWFORD--Perry Jr., died at 89 on December 13th, 2006 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of the late Marguerite (Peggy) Murtagh, beloved father of Perry III, Betsey, Susan, Connie, and Ann. A founding member of the computer industry, his ''fearless and imaginative jumps into the future
 FLOOD--Robert Francis, husband of the late Catherine Byrnes Flood, died on December 28, 2006 at his residence, Meadow Lakes in Hightstown, New Jersey. He lived in Larchmont, NY and Boynton Beach, FL. He was 94 years old. Mr. Flood was a graduate of the Iona School in New Rochelle, NY. He gr
 KLEIN--Abraham E., Ph.D., Professor Emeritus, Baruch College, CUNY, formerly of Queens, NY died peacefully in Aventura, FL December 29, 2006. Adored husband of Thelma, beloved father of Loretta and Joan. He was loved by all, including his students and colleagues. Contributions to CCNY Alumn
 LONG--William Albers of Potomac, MD, died peacefully Wednesday night in his home, surrounded by his entire family. Bill is remembered as a Managing Partner of Latham and Watkins' Washington Office, a Deputy Under Secretary of Defense during the Regan Administration, a Managing Director of t
 MANHEIMER--Robert H., M.D. Died after a short illness at the age of 88 on December 31, 2006. He was a dedicated rheumatologist, who worked at Montefiore Hospital for nearly sixty years. He is predeceased by his wife May Rosner Manheimer and survived and greatly missed by his sons and their 
 MEYERS--Nicholas, Music Supervisor and Editor for feature films and theatrical composer, died in the early morning hours of December 28, 2006 of complications from ALS. He was adored by his wife Sally Swisher, children Gabriel, Ada and Charlotte Meyers and his many friends. A memorial servi
 ROSENBERG--Earl. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Earl. His charasmatic personality and great sense of humor will never be forgotten. Heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife Lois, to his children Linda and Ronald, and his grandchildren and great-grandchild. ''Earl the
 BLUMENTHAL--Martin. A New York business man and philanthropist, died last Saturday in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 90. Mr. Blumenthal was born in Frankfurt, Germany and immigrated to New York City in 1935. He was President of A.J. Hollander and Company, a commodities trading firm.
 CASSIDY--John G., Sr. of Rye, NY passed away at Greenwich Hospital on December 31, 2006 after suffering a stroke. John was born on August 15, 1928 to Ellen and Patrick Cassidy of New Rochelle, NY and Swan Linbar in County Cavin, Ireland. He was a staff sergeant in the U.S. Air Force, a U.S.
 KATZ--Ira, age 88, long-time resident of Hewlett, NY and Boca Raton, FL died on December 31, 2006 at his home in Hewlett, NY surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of 61 years to Elaine, loving father of Suzi Katz-Roth and Jeffrey (Beth Rogers) Katz, cherished grandfather of Mark (Amanda
 MANHEIMER -- Robert H., M.D., 88. The President and Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Robert H. Manheimer, M.D., an esteemed colleague and friend. Doctor Manheimer's career as a rheumatologist at Montefiore spanned over 60 years, having just recentl
 MEYERS--Nicholas, Music Supervisor and Editor for feature films and theatrical composer, died in the early morning hours of December 28, 2006 of complications from ALS. He was adored by his wife Sally Swisher, children Gabriel, Ada and Charlotte Meyers and his many friends. A memorial servi
 PELHAM--Gilbert, age 98, passed away December 30. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice, cherished father of Diane ''Dee'' Pelham Turner and Ruth Pelham. Loving father-in-law of Robert C. Turner, adored grandfather of Jason and Ethan Turner, devoted brother, uncle, and friend. He was a renow
 POMERANTZ--Stephen. Son of Isidore Pomerantz and the late Evelyn Pomerantz; husband of Ku; father of Ken and Eve; and brother of Melvin. He was a lifetime student, teacher and lecturer of William Shakespeare. Loved by all his friends, brought joy and pleasure to all his audiences for many y
 ROGIN--Richard, died January 1st, 2007, age 74; cherished wife of Abigail Thomas; beloved father of Sally Rogin Dreslin, Katie Rogin, Frank Rogin; loving brother of Gilbert Rogin; much loved stepfather of Sarah Waddell, Jennifer Waddell, Ralph Waddell and Catherine Luttinger. Delighted gran
 ROSENBERG--Earl. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Earl. His charasmatic personality and great sense of humor will never be forgotten. Heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife Lois, to his children Linda and Ronald, and his grandchildren and great-grandchild. ''Earl the
 van HENGEL--Maarten, 79, died peacefully at home with his loving family in Scarborough, NY on December 29th, 2006. Born in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, on March 29th, 1927, he was the fourth of six children of Adrianus J. van Hengel and Helena van Hengel-Gips. He joined the private firm of B
 BLUMENTHAL--Martin. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn with a heavy heart the passing of Martin Blumenthal, our longtime Honorary Board member. We extend our deepest sympathies to Sallie, his wife, his sons Richard and David and his six grandchildren as well as the rest of the Blumenth
 Sydney Charles Wooderson, a British lawyer who held the world record for the mile and whose athletic career was interrupted in its prime by World War II, died Dec. 21 in a nursing home in Wareham, in the south of England. He was 92. His death was confirmed by Pat Calnan, an official
 Itche Goldberg, a champion of Yiddish who wrote and edited and taught his beloved language in the face of all those who said keeping Yiddish alive was a lost cause, died last Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 102. He died of complications of cancer, his son, David, said.   
 BOEHM--Robert, passed on December 26 at home, age 92. Lawyer and supreme activist, he was deeply devoted to the causes of civil rights, peace and justice. Chairman (Emeritus) of the Board of the Center for Constitutional Rights, longtime member of the National Lawyers Guild, ACLU, and NECLC
 KATZ--Ira. ''Unk'', you will be missed. Sweet dreams. We will always love you. Barbra and Margi $(6$)KATZ--Ira, age 88, long-time resident of Hewlett, NY and Boca Raton, FL died on December 31, 2006 at his home in Hewlett, NY surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of 61 years to Elaine, 
 KOHN--Marvin J. Died January 2, 2007 at age 63 after a valiant battle with Renal Cell Carcinoma. Born January 1, 1944 in Minneapolis, MN to Sigmund and Bessie Kohn. Marvin was a math professor at Brooklyn College for over 30 years. In addition to his beloved wife Paula, he is survived by hi
 KOLLEK--Teddy. The Hebrew Union College family records with sorrow the death of Teddy Kollek, inspiring statesman and visionary. He had been ever mindful of the prophetic tradition and the words of Nehemiah, ''With one hand we build and with one hand we protect.'' His life reflected his cou
 POSNER--Roy. The Directors, Officers and Employees of Loews Corporation are deeply saddened by the loss of Roy Posner -esteemed colleague, dear friend, and great professional. Roy left a lasting mark on the Corporation, even past his retirement as Chief Financial Officer. He will be missed 
 PRESS--Joel. The All Stars Project is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our board member Joel Press, who was an extraordinary friend and champion of poor and minority young people in New York City. Joel was a successful businessman who gave his heart and soul to help disadvantaged yo
 SCHMERTZ--Herman of Roslyn, NY and Tucson, AZ. Died January 1, 2007 at age 71 after a long and remarkably courageous battle with prostate cancer. Survived by his beloved wife of 48 years, Judi, devoted and exceptionally proud children Gail and Bruce Kerner and Rob and Debby Schmertz and lov
 SIMPSON--Dwight. Professor Dwight James Simpson, 85, died December 22nd after a brief illness. A specialist in Middle East politics, Professor Simpson earned a BA, MA, and PhD from Stanford University, and a post-doctoral degree from University College, Oxford. Professor Simpson is survived
 SPIEGEL--Allen D., Ph.D., MPH. SUNY Downstate Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Allen Spiegel, longtime professor of preventive medicine and community health, an eminent authority in the field of health care administration, and a revered teacher. Dr. Spiegel was the editor/author of 
 STANTON--Frank. For many years, President of CBS who risked contempt of Congress for the freedom of the television press. In 1971, a CBS News program Selling of the Pentagon exposed an unauthorized Pentagon public relations campaign for the Vietnam War. A Congressional Committee subpoenaed 
 STEELE--Alan N. On January 1. Beloved husband of Joan, devoted father of Lisa, and Doug, cherished grandfather of Matthew and Brittany, loving brother of Ira and Marion, uncle of Jonathan, Connie, Alex. He was one of a kind, a special man with a heart of gold, he will be remembered with war
 SUNSHINE--Abraham M.D. We have lost a great physician and a much loved friend. While his extraordinary warmth, compassion and acumen will be sorely missed, his memory will be with us always. Our heartfelt sympathy to Diane, Paul, Suzy, Sam, Maura and Margaret. Giovanna and Dan Rosenbloom $(
 VALLE--Sergio. Died December 20, 2006 at the Brooklyn VA Hospital after an extended illness. His remains will be interred at the Long Island National Cemetery, Wednesday January 10, 2007 at 11 am. A memorial gathering will follow at the Queens College Dining Hall, Presidents Lounge, 2-5pm. 
 van HENGEL--Maarten, died peacefully at home with his loving family in Scarborough NY on December 29, 2006. Born in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, on March 29, 1927. Survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Drusilla Drake Riley; his four children and their spouses: Maarten and Claudia van 
 BLUMENTHAL--Martin. The Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jeruselum, and Board of Governers mourn the passing of a dear friend and devoted patron. Professor Arnon Zuckerman, President of The Academy $(6$)BLUMENTHAL--Martin. The Jewish Museum's Board and staff mourn the loss of Martin Blum
 MAGLARAS--Nicholas G. The Lambos Firm mourns the sudden passing of its partner, Nicholas G. Maglaras. Nick was a highly-skilled and dedicated practitioner of law. He will be sorely missed by all who worked with him. Our sympathies go to his parents, George and Angelica Maglaras, his sister 
 Teddy Kollek, who as mayor of Jerusalem for nearly three decades did more to build and develop the city as Israel's capital than any other figure while promoting coexistence with a sometimes hostile Arab population, died Tuesday in Jerusalem. He was 95. The Jerusalem Foundation, the
 Bud Delp, the Hall of Fame thoroughbred trainer who saddled the brilliant colt Spectacular Bid, the winner of the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness in 1979, died last Friday in Ellicott City, Md. He was 74. The cause was cancer, the Maryland Jockey Club said. In his 44 years 
 Garry Betty, who built the EarthLink Corporation from a struggling start-up into a public company that took on telecommunications giants, died Tuesday in Atlanta. He was 49. The cause was heart problems associated with adrenal cortical cancer, said Scott Hobby, a business associate 
 BARBER--Hugh, M.D. The Senior Society of Nacoms, Columbia University, notes with great sadness the passing of Dr. Hugh Barber. He was a true and loyal son of Columbia College and a great supporter of the Society. We send our deepest sympathies to his family. The Alumni Advisory Committee   
 HALEVY--Chaya. We extend heartfelt condolences to Professor Jonathan Halevy, the Director General of Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem, on the loss of his beloved mother. He can be reached at 011-972-50533-9686. May Professor Halevy and the entire family be comforted amongst the mour
 KATZ--Ira. The family of Howard Katz (deceased), Gilda, Alan (Randi, Stefanie and Pamela), Stuart (Carmen, Andrea and Sandra) and Jonathan (Robin, Danielle and Derek), mourn the passing of his brother Ira. Ira and Howard, with their father Philip, were among the pioneers of housing and indu
 KOLLEK--Teddy. The Jerusalem Foundation in Israel and the U.S. deeply mourns the passing of its founder, distinguished leader, and longtime Mayor of Jerusalem, Teddy Kollek. The Builder of Modern Jerusalem, Teddy Kollek was born in Vienna and immigrated to Israel in 1935. He helped found Ki
 MAVROLEON--George M. on December 29 at home in Greenwich, Connecticut, after a long and fulfilling life and successful career in ship owning. He is predeceased by his wife Elizabeth Sutton Loock and survived by his sons Basil G. Mavroleon and Mace Gwyer Mavroleon. Friends and family are wel
 PARKER--Jack. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Jack Parker, beloved husband of Norma Parker and grandfather of Kim Dickstein, Executive Chair of the Manhattan Women's Campaign. Parker was an esteemed trustee of the Parker Jewish Ins
 SANDS--Harry, Ph.D., aged 89 years, died on January 3, beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle and colleague. He dedicated his life to people through the practice of psychology. He was the former CEO of the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health in NYC to which he devoted his pa
 SCHMERTZ--Herman of Roslyn, NY and Tucson, AZ. Died January 1, 2007 at age 71 after a long and remarkably courageous battle with prostate cancer. Survived by his beloved wife of 48 years, Judi, devoted and exceptionally proud children Gail and Bruce Kerner and Rob and Debby Schmertz and lov
 STRAUSS--Robert A., M.D. on January 3rd, 2006 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Dr. Elizabeth S. Gloster. Devoted father of Tony, cherished son of Sylvia Strauss. Services private. $(6$)STRAUSS--Robert A., M.D. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep s
 SUNSHINE--Abraham M.D. We have lost a great physician and a much loved friend. While his extraordinary warmth, compassion and acumen will be sorely missed, his memory will be with us always. Our heartfelt sympathy to Diane, Paul, Suzy, Sam, Maura and Margaret. Giovanna and Dan Rosenbloom   
 WINKLER--Martin on January 2nd, 2007. Age 85 of Boca Raton. Formerly of Muttontown, NY. President of Belwin-Mills Music Publishing Corp. for over 40 years. Survived by his wife of 40 years, Kate. Beloved father of five children. Poppa to 14 grandchildren. Great-Poppa to five great-grandchil
 HAUPTFLEISCH--Louis A. Born and raised in Waterloo, Ill. July 17th 1918, passed away December 14th, 2006, of complications from Alzheimer's. His parents were Herman E. and Amanda (nee Koenigsmark) Hauptfleisch. Mr. Hauptfleisch retired in 1983 after 10 years as first VP of Municipal Finance
 Seymour Martin Lipset, who ignored family pressure to be a dentist and instead became a pre-eminent sociologist, political scientist and incisive theorist on American uniqueness, died on Dec. 31 in Arlington, Va. He was 84. The cause was a stroke, his wife, Sydnee, said. Mr.
 BRENT--George, of Manhattan and Lakeville, CT, peacefully on Wednesday, January 2, surrounded by loving family and friends. Service Monday, January 7, 11:30am, Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Memorial visitation Sunday, January 6, at Campbell Funeral Chapel, 5-9pm. Fa
 FALK--Harry C. Everyone at the New York Board of Trade mourns the profound loss of our dear friend and colleague, Harry Falk. Harry's history was filled with achievements, professional and personal: President, CEO, Chairman of the Board (NYBOT & Coffee, Sugar and Cocca Exchange) and leader 
 FISCH--Herbert J., M.D., died January 3rd, 2007, after a courageous battle with melanoma. Survived by his beloved wife Elinor, proud and loving children Jonathan Fisch, Amy and Jacob Wasserman and Peter and Jill Fisch, and adoring grandchildren Sam, Jessica, Ben, Emily, Daniel, Zach, Sara a
 FREUND--Philip, author and educator, Fordham University Professor Emeritus, died on December 20 at 98, after a short illness. He was born in Vancouver, Canada. He sent prize-winning stories and poems to the Detroit News before he was ten, began college at 16 and almost immediately began to 
 FRIEDMAN--Jack, 84, of Hewlett and Boca Raton, died January 4, 2008. For 63 years he was a beloved and loving husband of Jacklyn, a loving and devoted father of David, Dianne and Steven, a most affectionate father-in-law to Rebecca and Michael, and a proud grandfather of seven and great-gra
 KATZ--Ira. The family of Howard Katz (deceased), Gilda, Alan (Randi, Stefanie and Pamela), Stuart (Carmen, Andrea and Sandra) and Jonathan (Robin, Danielle and Derek), mourn the passing of his brother Ira. Ira and Howard, with their father Philip, were among the pioneers of housing and indu
 KOLLEK--Teddy. Our deepest condolences to Tamar, Osnat, and Amos on the passing of our beloved friend Teddy. You will be greatly missed by everyone who knew you. The Constantiner Family KOLLEK--Teddy. An honorable man, an exceptional friend, a true leader and a remarkable Statesman;
 LEVINE--Howard. New York University mourns the passing of Howard Levine, former Assistant Vice President for Public Affairs at the University. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Carol and his family. John Sexton, NYU President Martin Lipton, Chair, Board of Trustees       
 MUDICK--Bertram, passed away on January 2, 2008. Beloved husband of Gilda, loving father of Eric and Stephanie, grandfather of five adoring grandchildren, Dahlia, Lily, Jennifer, Alison, and Sara. Bertram Mudick was one of the most well respected individuals in the shoe industry for over 50
 PARKER--Jack. The Board of Directors and volunteers of the New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation mourn the passing of Jack Parker, longtime supporter and friend. Through his years of dedication and commitment, Jack was a pivotal influence in JDRF's search to find a c
 POSNER--Roy E. A financial advisor to the New York Giants for the past 15 years, suffered a fatal heart attack 90 minutes after Saturday's December 30th game. He was 73. Survived by his daughter and son-in-law Karen and Peter Montano and four grandchildren Samantha, Parker, Jason, and Sara 
 ROBINSON--L. Donald. The Board of Directors of 190 East 72nd Corp. mourns the passing of Don Robinson, a valued Board member and resident of Tower East. His wise counsel and concern for our building will be sorely missed. We express our condolences to his wife Ellen and family. Jay G. Axelr
 SACHS--Stanley, passed away January 3, 2008 at the age of 76. He is survived by wife Carole; children Lori and Charlie, Marc and Stacey; grandchildren Jason, Sam, Todd and Dylan; and brother Jay and sister-in-law Bonnie. Funeral in Florida.       
 SANDS--Harry, Ph.D., The Postgraduate Center for Mental Health and the Board of Trustees mourn the loss of our long time friend, Board Member and former Executive Director. Harry established our first community residence and set the course for our future. He leaves a legacy of commitment to
 SCHNELLER--Leo, M.D., age 91 of New Rochelle, NY died January 3, 2007. Adored husband of the late Thelma (nee Rosenberg). Loving father of David (Marilynn), Margery and Julie. Beloved grandfather of David, Lisa and Michael. Cherished uncle of John (Ruth), Nancy (Jim), Laurie (Howie), Tom (A
 SHERMAN--Arnold E. Beloved husband of Naomi S. Sherman. Loving father of William and Jane Sherman, Patty and Richard Rudolph, and Joseph and Lisa Sherman. Cherished grandfather of David, Michael, Jason, Vicky, Andrew, Sam and Nathan. Devoted brother of Florence Hartenstein and brother-in-la
 SUNSHINE--Abraham, M.D., The members of the Society of the Bellevue Alumni deeply mourn the passing of our past president. He was a devoted teacher, an outstanding Clinician, a dear friend and colleague. We send our sincere condolences to his family.       
 WINKLER--Martin. The Officers, Board, and members of Temple Emanu-el of Lynbrook record with great sorrow the death of our beloved past President. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Bruce Kerner, President Rabbi Scott Corngold WINKLER--Martin on January 2nd, 2007. Age 85
 BERNSTEIN--Stephen, we mourn the passing of our member and extend heart felt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Carole Neely Steven Blaustein, Co-Presidents BERNSTEIN--Stephen, we will miss you deeply. You were, are and always will be more than a
 VAN HENGEL--Maarten. The Phelps Memorial Hospital Center community mourns the passing of longtime friend and esteemed former Board Chairman, Maarten van Hengel, who was associated with Phelps for more than 30 years. He also served as Chairman of the Board of the Stellaris Health Network. He
 Vincent Sardi Jr., who owned and managed Sardi's restaurant, his father's theater-district landmark, for more than half a century and became, by wide agreement, the unofficial mayor of Broadway, died yesterday at a hospital in Berlin, Vt.. He was 91 and had lived in Warren, Vt., since retir
 A. Richard Newton, a pioneer in electronic design technology who directly influenced the industry as well as being a mentor to countless engineering students, died on Tuesday in San Francisco. He was 55. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to the University of California, Ber
 Bernard D. Meltzer, a law professor who helped bring clarity to labor-management issues at a time of great change in the field, who was a prosecutor at the Nuremberg war crimes trials and who helped draft the United Nations Charter, died Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 92. T
 C. Harry Falk, the chief executive and president of the New York Board of Trade, died Wednesday. He was 66 and lived in Rockland County in New York. The exchange announced his death but did not disclose a cause. Mr. Falk was named chief executive and president of the exchang
 Jack E. Myers, a molecular biologist who not only researched algae as a food source that could be grown in space but also made science comprehensible to youngsters as an editor of Highlights for Children magazine, died Dec. 28 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 93. The cause was can
 FALK--C. Harry, The Greater New York Chapter of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America (CCFA) mourns the passing of our benefactor and dear friend, C. Harry Falk. His generosity and devotion to the medical research of CCFA has helped significantly advance our knowledge of these debilit
 KATZ--Ira, Poppa. Definition of patriarch. Loved by so many. His guidance, love, and compassion have constantly driven my family closer, and we will hold him close in our hearts for the rest of our lives. Love you more than words can tell. Mark and (Amanda) Roth Jason Roth John Katz        
 PRESS--Joel. The community of West End Synagogue, A Reconstructionist Congregation, mourns the loss of this gentleman and his quiet, amused smile.       
 COLONGHI -- John L. 1957-2006. John Lawrence Colonghi, a respected financial and public affairs consultant to American Indian tribes, an accomplished athlete, and a nationally - acclaimed fund raising executive, died at him home in Sausalito, California, on December 11th after a long and co
 FISCH--Herbert J., M.D. The entire Peninsula Hospital Center family is deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Herbert J. Fisch, Director Emeritus, Department of Anesthesiology and an active member of the Medical staff for many years. Retired for the past several years, Dr. Fisch will long be
 FRIEDMAN--Rodney Michael, 59, died peacefully on January 1, 2007, at his home in Redding, Connecticut. He is survived by Charlotte Milholland and their son, Rafer Friedman, 6; his daughters Jennesa Calvo-Friedman, 20, and Alessandra Calvo-Friedman, 24; brother, Kenneth Weinberg; and mother,
 GARREN--Dr. Mitchel G. A memorial service for Dr. Mitchel Garren will be held on Sunday, January 14, at 2:00pm at the Society for Ethical Culture, 2 W. 64 St., New York, NY. Born October 31, 1912, he died December 13, 2006. After serving in World War II, he married Betty Aronson (now deceas
 GERSUNY--Conrad, 75, at Morrisville, VT. Jeweler, sculpture, owner of McDougal Street's Conrad Shop. Gentle, generous, gifted, loquacious. Survived by brother Carl and family, three exwives who remain his friends, his long time devoted partner, Portia Arthur and his beloved cat, Sheena. Soc
 HUNTER--Thomas C. Jr., 73, of Stamford, CT died January 4. Beloved husband of Mary Bernstein Hunter, devoted father of Thomas III (Rita), William and Andrew (Alison) and doting grandfather of Valeria Hunter. Entrepreneur, patent holder, engineer, member Stamford Board of Reps, antique boat 
 KATZ--Ira, age 88, long-time resident of Hewlett, NY and Boca Raton, FL died on December 31, 2006 at his home in Hewlett, NY surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of 61 years to Elaine, loving father of Suzi Katz-Roth and Jeffrey (Beth Rogers) Katz, cherished grandfather of Mark (Amanda
 KATZ--Ira, Poppa. Definition of patriarch. Loved by so many. His guidance, love, and compassion have constantly driven my family closer, and we will hold him close in our hearts for the rest of our lives. Love you more than words can tell. Mark and (Amanda) Roth Jason Roth John Katz       
 KRESTON--Martin. We will not see his ilk again. Rob Goldstone and Family $(6$)KRESTON--Martin. A dear friend who left us too soon, our love and condolences to Judie and the family. Judy and Neal Gersten $(6$)KRESTON--Martin H., 75, died January 5th of lung cancer. Adored hus
 MALNICK--David. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of David Malnick of San Jose, CA. An enthusiastic supporter of the Technion, Mr. Malnick was Silicon Valley Chapter co-president and former vice president of the North Pacific Region. A succe
 O'NEILL--Trevor, died age 55, at New York-Presbyterian Weill Cornell Medical Center after a brave bout with lung and brain cancer on January 3rd, 2007. He is survived by the joy of his life, Alexander Trevor Iseman O'Neill, who has been blessed with many of Trevor's fine traits, and his dev
 POSNER--Roy E. A financial advisor to the New York Giants for the past 15 years, suffered a fatal heart attack 90 minutes after Saturday's December 30th game. He was 73. Survived by his daughter and son-in-law Karen and Peter Montano and four grandchildren Samantha, Parker, Jason, and Sara 
 REEVES--Marc Vincent, 62, on December 31, 2006. His life was devoted to serving others, sustained by a joyful spirit and his travels to 55 countries. He will be sorely missed by his partner Carolyn Kopp, mother Elizabeth Reeves, family and many friends. A memorial service is being planned. 
 ROLAND--Rolf Reinhard, 95 years of age, died on January 1, 2007, beloved husband, father, grandfather, and father-in-law. We deeply mourn his passing. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, January 14, at 11:00am, at Crabtree's Kittle House, 11 Kittle Rd., Chappaqua, NY. The Roland Fami
 SANDS--Harry, Ph. D. The members of the New York State Psychological Association are saddened by the death of our respected and beloved colleague and Past President (1985-1986), Harry Sands. Harry was an acclaimed psychologist, winner of APA's Gold Medal for Lifetime Achievement, and a frie
 SAPORITO--Vincent J., Sr., 79, died peacefully in his sleep on January 1st, 2007. A great thinker, he embraced family and friends with an open heart and a zest for living. He was an active member of the Bayside Hills Civic Association for 40 years and supporter of many environmental and soc
 WEISBERG--Dr. Israel Irv, 81, pediatrician, long-time member of faculty CWRU Medical School, died December 28, 2006 in Cleveland Heights, OH. Born 1925 in Bronx N.Y. Husband of Hilda (Maggie), married 58 years. Father of Saul (wife Shelley) of Bellingham, WA, and Mark (wife Barbara) of Pitt
 WINTER--Jack, died on December 29th, in Victoria, BC. He was 64. He was a comedy writer for television and film. He is survived by his beloved wife Ekram ''Moon'' Fadlelmola and his sisters Elizabeth Wolpaw of Delmar, NY, and Sat Tara Kaur Khalsa of Boulder, CO. He will be greatly missed. C
 Cole Campbell, one of the first newspaper editors to embrace the idea that journalism should help readers be engaged citizens, died Friday in Reno, Nev., when his vehicle flipped on an icy road. Mr. Campbell, 53, was on his way to the Reno campus of the University of Nevada, where h
 Daniel R. Raichel, a mechanical engineer and an expert on acoustics who studied how sound travels in symphony halls and across industrial workplaces and wrote a leading textbook on the subject, died on Dec. 22 in El Cajon, Calif. He was 71. The cause was melanoma, his family said.  
 Ira D. Wallach, a New York philanthropist who for many years was the chief executive of Central National-Gottesman Inc., the world's largest private marketer of pulp, paper and newsprint, died on Saturday at the White Plains Hospital Center. He was 97 and lived in Scarsdale. His dea
 BRAVERMAN--Arthur Alan, of Rockville Centre, NY, died peacefully on January 7th, 2007. Beloved husband of Myrna, loving father of Felice, the late Howard Baturin, Diane and William Levy, and Robyn and Bernard Dolington. Poppy of Spencer, Mallory, Nicole and Samantha. He will forever be in o
 COOPER--Selwyn, 91, of Searingtown, N.Y., passed away in Boca Raton, FL. January 6, 2007. He was a genius at problem solving and at trivia and loved by all. During W.W. II he was a Naval Officer in charge of Radar on an Aircraft carrier. Survived by beloved wife, of 60 years, Hilda, loving 
 FINKELSTEIN--Harry, of Delray Beach, Florida, died peacefully at the age of 98 on January 5, 2007, beloved husband of the late Fae, cherished uncle of Paul Tanners, Henry Tanners, Iris Friedlander, Barbara Finkel, Richard Katz, and Barry Lubetkin. Adored great-uncle of Jonathan Tanners. Orp
 GRECO--Dr. Gabriel, 91, loving husband of Norma, he passed away on Friday, January 6, in his sleep after a lingering illness. He was a man of infinite wisdom, integrity and great dignity. He was a skilled ophthalmologist and had great compassion. He was on the staffs of Bellevue, Tish Hospi
 O'NEILL--Trevor, died age 55, at New York-Presbyterian Weill Cornell Medical Center after a brave bout with lung and brain cancer on January 3rd, 2007. He is survived by the joy of his life, Alexander Trevor Iseman O'Neill, who has been blessed with many of Trevor's fine traits, and his dev
 SARDI--Vincent The officers, board of directors and the staff of the Irish Repertory Theatre mourn the passing of our most excellent boardmember, Vincent Sardi, who we held in the highest regard. His grand good humor and great generosity was a thing of beauty and a joy every day of his life
 SHAPIRO--Glenn N. on January 6th, 2007, of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved son of the late Sheldon and Dorothy Shapiro. Dear brother of Jay Shapiro and brother-in-law of Dr. Rick Reinkraut of Cambridge, MA, and cherished partner of Hal Levine of Brooklyn, NY. He will surely be missed and always remem
 SIRKIN--Abraham M, died January 7, at 92, in Rockville, MD. A graduate of Townsend Harris HS and Columbia, he had a career in public relations for the US government, serving in Tokyo, London, Madras, and Athens. He was a champion for a free press and human rights while in Greece under the j
 WALLACH--Ira D., of Scarsdale, NY, on January 6, 2007 at the age of 97. Devoted and loving husband for 68 years of Miriam G. Wallach. Loving father of Sue W. Wachenheim of Rye, NY, James G, Wallach (deceased, survived by his wife, Mary) of Scarsdale, NY, Kenneth L. Wallach of New York, NY, 
 WEIXEL--David, 91, on December 31, 2006. Beloved husband of his late wife, Lola. Loving father of Miriam and Eugene (Marbella); grandfather of Joanna, Rose and Goldie (Chad); step-grandfather of Yorknewsa and Zadaai; brother, uncle, greatuncle and friend to many. A soldier during WWII, he w
 John McN. Sieburth, a fiercely independent scientist whose research on turkeys led him to penguins, which in turn led him to help identify infinitesimal oceanic organisms that appear to be the most abundant on earth, died on Dec. 7 in West Kingston, R.I. He was 79. The cause was com
 Momofuku Ando, who -- to the delight of dormitory students and other kitchen-resistant customers worldwide -- invented those small packets of preflavored dried noodles that require just a three-minute boil, died Friday at a hospital in Osaka, Japan. Mr. Ando, the founder of the Nissin Food 
 BERNSTEIN--Stephen L., died on January 3rd, 2007. Devoted brother Arthur mourns his passing.       
 BIASSOU--Wesner, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Department of Anesthesiology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear and beloved friend and former colleague, Wesner Biassou, M.D., a wonderful doctor, friend and teac
 BRAVERMAN--Arthur Alan, of Rockville Centre, NY, died peacefully on January 7th, 2007. Beloved husband of Myrna, loving father of Felice and the late Howard Baturin, Diane and William Levy, and Robyn and Bernard Dolington. Poppy of Spencer, Mallory, Nicole and Samantha. He will forever be i
 DUDINE--William F., Jr. 75, died December 27th at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia of complications from a stroke. He is survived by his wife, Jean Phillips Worley; his children Mary Dudine Kyle and William F. Dudine III, both of Brooklyn, and Jane Dudine of Southampton,
 EDELHAM--Abraham H. (Hank) 92, beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Robert and Matthew, devoted grandfather of six. President Edelham Studios. Proud member 603rd, engineers camouflage battalion WWII. Funeral private. Our gratitude to the many devoted people who cared for him during h
 FALK--C. Harry. Our deepest condolences to Joan Falk and all members of the family on the loss of our friend Harry Falk. He was a valued member of the sugar department at Louis Dreyfus for many years. Louis Dreyfus Corporation       
 FEINERMAN--Rabbi Judah. The Yeshiva University/ RIETS family is saddened by the passing of a devoted alumnus who was widely recognized for his leadership on behalf of Jewish education. A past member of the YU Board of Trustees, he also served on the Board of Trustees of the Rabbi Isaac Elch
 GRECO--Dr. Gabriel, 91, loving husband of Norma, he passed away on Friday, January 6, in his sleep after a lingering illness. He was a man of infinite wisdom, integrity and great dignity. He was a skilled ophthalmologist and had great compassion. He was on the staffs of Bellevue, Tish Hospi
 KAPLAN--Steven J. We mourn the passing of Steven, dear brother of Lynn K. Jacobson, buddy and brotherin-law to Geert, on January 5, 2007. Uncle to Anthony, Joe and Jordana. Loving friend to Marilyn Kaplan and Paula Carlson. Beloved pal and brother-in-law to Steven (Lynn) Jacobson. He was a 
 McNAMARA--David, 43, died Saturday, January 6 in Monmouth Medical Center near where he lived in New Jersey. He was the radio personality, Dave Mac, on Sirius Satellite Radio where he hosted shows on The Spectrum, Sirius Blues and Sirius Disorder channels. Tributes will appear on the Sirius 
 RAPP--J.M. Howard, M.D. on January 8, 2007. Husband of the late Elsie. Devoted father of Pamela Rapp, Millicent Mahood and Douglas Rapp. Cherished grandfather of five and great-grandfather of two. A Veteran of the US Navy during WWII. He was a cardiologist specializing in cardiovascular dia
 SANDS--Harry, Ph.D. The members of the New York State Psychological Association are saddened by the death of our respected and beloved colleague and Past President (1985-1986), Harry Sands. Harry was an acclaimed psychologist, winner of the APA's Gold Medal for Lifetime Achievement, and a f
 SIMON--Frederick Kramer, 66, of Havertown, PA, passed away on January 8, 2007. He is survived by his beloved wife, Tina, his cherished father, Stanley Simon, his children Laura and Dale Cronin, Lewis and Karen Simon, and Carl Simon, his grandsons, Patrick and Joshua Cronin. Services Wednesd
 WALLACH--Ira D. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn with heavy hearts the passing of Ira Wallach, beloved father of longstanding Board member Kenneth Wallach. Our hearts and prayers are with Ira's adored wife, Miriam, their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May they and t
 MURAVCHIK--Emanuel. The officers, staff and members of the Jewish Labor Committee note with deep sadness the death of Emanuel Muravchik, Executive Director Emeritus and longtime member of the staff of the Jewish Labor Committee from 19471984. He served as National Field Director and Executi
 Iwao Takamoto, the artist who created the mystery-solving Great Dane, Scooby-Doo, among many other indelible cartoon characters, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, suffered at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He was in the hospital for another ailmen
 DALY--John. Manhattan College mourns the loss of its Vice President for Finance, John Robert Daly. A distinctly dedicated member of the Manhattan College community for more than twenty years, he served the College with unsurpassed loyalty, professionalism, wisdom, enthusiasm and strength. H
 EDELMAN--Abraham H. (Hank) 92, beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Robert and Matthew, devoted grandfather of six. President Edelman Studios. Proud member 603rd, engineers camouflage battalion WWII. Funeral private. Our gratitude to the many devoted people who cared for him during h
 KRAMER--Victor H. (Vic), age 93, prominent anti-trust attorney, pioneer in public interest law, and law professor, and a resident of Washington D.C. since 1938, died on January 8, 2007. In addition to his wife of 40 years, Solveig Grette Kramer, he is survived by three children from his lat
 KRESTON--Martin. The Shakespeare Society bids a fond adieu to our much admired member Martin Kreston. He was a fine speaker of the verse and a wonderful gentleman. We will miss you. Good night, sweet Prince.       
 LERNER--Herbert, 89, of Boca Raton, Florida on January 8, 2007. A well known print dealer, formerly with Remin's, he is survived by his wife of 37 years, Claire, six children, 11 grandchildren and three great-grandsons. You will always be with us. Services Thursday, 2 pm, Parkside Chapel, 9
 McCARTHY--Andrew, age 68 of Plainedge, NY, (Native of Quilty, Co. Clare, Ireland) on January 8, 2007. Beloved husband of 43 years to Christina. Devoted father of son Andrew (Mary) and daughters Veronica (Gerald), Clare (Tommy), Christina and Margaret (Joe). Adored and cherished Grandpa/Papa
 PITT--Morris, of Brooklyn, NY, died peacefully on January 8th, 2007. Beloved father of Elaine and the late Charles Evans and Harvey and Saree Pitt. Admired by his grandchildren, Hilary Evans, Sal Graziano, Seth Evans, Gideon Evans and Jill Weidman, Emily Pitt, Jonathan Pitt, Robert Pitt and
 SIMON--Frederick Kramer, 66, of Havertown, PA, passed away on January 8, 2007. He is survived by his beloved wife, Tina, his cherished father, Stanley Simon, his children Laura and Dale Cronin, Lewis and Karen Simon, and Carl Simon, his grandsons, Patrick and Joshua Cronin. Services Wednesd
 TISNE--Jean Elizabeth (Betty), on January 5th, age 84, long time resident of Chappaqua, NY. Wife of the late Jacques J. Tisne, mother of Katherine Paradise of Boston, MA, Elizabeth Hilton of Fairfax, CA, John Goldsmith Jr. of Plainfield, IL, grandmother of Alisse Goldsmith, Chris Goldsmith 
 WALLACH--Ira D. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of Ira D. Wallach, who was a friend, colleague, and benefactor of this institution for many years. With his wife, Miriam, he demonstrated a keen interest in art through philanthropy, generously donating 
 MURAVCHIK--Emanuel. The members of the Atran Foundation mourn the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague Manny Muravchik. A Foundation member representing the Jewish Labor Committee since 1977, and Director since 1984, Manny was a strong, balancing force, serving with objectivity
 Carlo Ponti, the influential film producer whose vast body of work encompassed Italian realism, French New Wave and Hollywood fluff but who etched his name in popular legend by defying law and church to marry Sophia Loren, died on Tuesday in Geneva. He was 94. He had been hospitaliz
 James C. Weeks, a former president and chief operating officer of The New York Times Regional Media Group and a former publisher of The Press Democrat of Santa Rosa, died Monday in New York. He was 64 and had homes in Atlanta and Aspen, Colo. Mr. Weeks died unexpectedly on a trip to
 BAUMANN--John J. ''Jack'' of Asharoken, Northport, L.I. on December 22, 2006 in his 62nd year (Retired from NYC Board of Education). Husband of the late Jane (Grunwald) (Died January 5, 2007). Father of the late Jacquelyn Anne Baumann. Stepfather of Jessica D. Beeam and David R. Briggs. Bro
 BRINKER--John S., on January 5, 2007, at age 76. Survived by his loving children, August and Ruth Ann, grandson, Cooper, as well as former wife, Catherine, with whom he remained close friends.       
 CHAIKIN--George M., 62, artist and teacher died January 3rd. He is survived by his wife Kathie Chaikin, sons Nicholas and Paul and daughter Eliza, three grandchildren and a sister. A memorial service will be held on Saturday January 13th at 4:30 pm in the Princeton Friends Meeting House, 47
 CROSS--Henry B. (Hank), Jr. 92, of 981 Greenway Lane, Vero Beach, FL died Sunday, January 7, 2007, at his home. Mr. Cross was born in Providence, RI and moved to Vero Beach from Dorset, VT and West Orange, NJ. He is survived by his wife Marion Cross of Vero Beach; daughters Carin Cross of W
 GREENBERG--Adolph loving and beloved husband of Joan. Devoted father, grandfather, and great-grandfather, dear brother. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett LI, 12 noon Friday. $(6$)GREENBERG--Adolph. The Officers, Board and Congregants of Temple Emanu-El of Lynbr
 HERSHEY--Sylvan Joseph, 84, Paramus, NJ, on January 9, 2007. He was an OBGYN practicing in Paramus and at Valley Hospital of Ridgewood since 1955. Graduated NYU Medical School. Served as Director of OBGYN and as VP of medical staff at Valley. Predeceased by wife Lila. Survived by children E
 HOAGLAND--Richard J., of Edison, New Jersey, died Saturday, January 6, 2007 at the age of 36, as a result of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. His mother Sheryl Burdick Hoagland also died in the same accident. He is survived by his wife Clara, his father John and his sister Rach
 HOPGOOD--Roy Caldwell, 89, died of complications from congestive heart failure Thursday, December 28, 2006 in Wolfeboro, NH. A resident of Glen Ridge, NJ from 19312003, he was senior partner in the New York patent law firm of Hopgood, Calimafde, et al until his retirement in 2002. He is sur
 PRESS--Arthur, of New York and Florida, died on January 9, 2007. He was 77 years old. Mr. Press or Artie as he was known to those that knew him was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY. He attended Lafayette High School and Western Maryland College where he was selected as a first team All Ameri
 ROOSEVELT--Oliver W. Jr, 79, died on January 9th after a long illness. Son of Oliver W. and Verdery Akin Roosevelt, he was Fine Arts Editor and Music Critic for The Birmingham News. He is survived by his wife Ann; son Oliver W. III (Carol); daughters Verdery, Laura Patterson (Jim), Nicky (J
 SALOMON--Howard M., past President of the New York City Association of Insurance and Financial Advisers, died January 9 in New York at 82. Salomon was largely responsible for persuading insurance companies not to ask race on applications. He also developed a pioneering NY legislative - outr
 SULLIVAN--Stephen, Brother J., F.S.C. The Board of Trustees and the entire Manhattan College community mourns the passing of Brother J. Stephen Sullivan, F.S.C., the College's 17th President. The Boston native was 86. Noted teacher, scholar, theologian and administrator, Brother Sullivan se
 TISNE--Jean Elizabeth (Betty), on January 5th, age 84, long time resident of Chappaqua, NY. Wife of the late Jacques J. Tisne, mother of Katherine Paradise of Boston, MA, Elizabeth Hilton of Fairfax, CA, John Goldsmith Jr. of Plainfield, IL, grandmother of Alisse Goldsmith, Chris Goldsmith 
 WEEKS--James C, on January 8, 2007. The staff and Board of the Atlantic Theater Company mourn the loss of James C. Weeks, father of our beloved Company member, Todd Weeks. Our deepest condolences go out to Todd, his sister Traci, their stepmother Toney Thomas, and to all the members of thei
 WOLLMAN--Mike, Art Director and Photographer died on November 30th, 2006. Beloved father, survived by his daughters Katie Wollman and Liza Wollman Kursa; and five grandchildren.       
 MURAVCHIK--Emanuel, 90, on January 8, 2007. Devoted husband of Miriam, beloved father of Aaron and Joshua, grandfather of Eben, Madeline, Stephanie and Valerie, and great-grandfather of Aviv, Gabriel, Isaiah and Samantha. Memorial Friday January 12th, 11am, at Atran Center for Jewish Cultur
 PIVIROTTO--Richard R. The Directors, officers and staff of General American Investors Company, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague, Richard R. Pivirotto, who served the Company with great dedication for more than 35 years as a Director. His wisdom, judgment and
 MOORE--John McDonald. January 11, 1919 -September 14 ,1999. How shall I withhold my soul so that it does not touch on yours? How shall I uplifted over you to other things? Ah, willing would I by some lost thing in the dark give it harbor in an unfamiliar silent place that does not vibrate o
 BEILIN--Harry, 85, of New York City, died peacefully after a long illness on January 11, 2007. He is survived by his wife, Iris Fodor, his sons Lewis Beilin and Ian Beilin (Anna Fishzon), his grandson Felix Beilin, and stepchildren Anthony Fodor and Jody Sperling. He was formerly married to
 DOCTOR--Daniel W. MD, died on January 10th in Palm Beach FL at age 79. Dr. Daniel Doctor devoted his life to his family and his profession. He was born and raised in the Bronx, NY. He attended the Bronx High School of Science and earned both a Bachelors and Masters of Science at New York Un
 GLASHOW--Dr. Jules Lewis, 88, January 10, 2007. Graduate of Washington University School of Medicine 1942. Served as general Eisenhower's surgeon, Versailles Shaef. First American Physician to liberate Dachau. He practiced in NYC for 45 years. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 46 years, Ju
 JENSEN--Eric F., former corporate labor relations executive and arbitrator and a longtime resident of White Plains, NY, died on Wednesday, January 3, 2007, at Kendal-onHudson in Sleepy Hollow, NY, after a long illness. He was 79. The family will hold a memorial and celebration of his life l
 LEWENSON--George. Age 96, of Riverdale Ave., NY, died on January 7th, 2007. Mr. Lewenson was born in Lodz, Poland. He graduated from Warsaw School of Business and The University of Warsaw. He married Mira (Alpert). As Holocaust survivors he and Mira immigranted to the United States and sett
 PLANT--Morton. The World ORT family offer their heartfelt condolences to Tamara Plant and family on the loss of Morton Plant. The legacy of his leadership of the United Jewish Communities will continue to benefit generations of Jews around the world. Sir Maurice Hatter, President Dr. Jean d
 PRESS--Arthur, of New York and Florida, died on January 9, 2007. He was 77 years old. Mr. Press or Artie as he was known to those that knew him was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY. He attended Lafayette High School and Western Maryland College where he was selected as a first team All Ameri
 SEELIG--Michael J. On Janurary 10, 2007, at the age of 93. An amazing man, who was the beloved husband of Phyllis; the loving father of Patty, and the late Kenny; and grandfather of Annie and Lisa. He was a First Sergeant in the United States Army Air Corps and was honorably discharged Febr
 ROOSEVELT--Oliver Jr. The Board and Staff of Ballet Hispanico feel the deepest sympathy for our esteemed Executive Director Verdery Roosevelt on the loss of her father, Oliver W. Roosevelt Jr. In addition to serving for more than 30 years as fine arts editor and music critic for the Birming
 Martin D. Kruskal, a mathematician whose wide-ranging research touched on astrophysics, nuclear fusion and the soliton, a unique form of wave that he helped describe in the 1960s, died Dec. 26 in Princeton, N.J. He was 81. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Working on 
 ROBINS--Jerome H., 82, on January 11th. Beloved and devoted husband of 59 years to Madeline (nee Gault) and loving father to Jeffrey Robins and Ilene Robins Wikler. Jerry is also survived by a son-in-law, Irwin Wikler, two granddaughters, Gail and Ellen Wikler, and a brother, Burton Robins,
 SOUTO--Olimpio. September 26, 1934 -January 12, 2007. Died in his home after a long term illness. Survived by his wife, Maria, of Queens, NY.       
 Robert Anton Wilson, an author of ''The Illuminatus! Trilogy'' -- a mind-twisting science-fiction series about a secret global society that has been a cult classic for more than 30 years -- died on Thursday at his home in Capitola, Calif. He was 74. His death was confirmed by his da
 Wilson Hulme, an energetic promoter of the stamp collecting hobby and philatelic curator of the Smithsonian's National Postal Museum in Washington, died on Wednesday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 60. The cause was a heart attack, said Allison Gallaway, a spokeswoman for the museum
 Yury A. Golubev, a founder of Yukos Oil, the former energy giant once led by Mikhail B. Khordokovsky, died sometime last weekend in London. He was 64. A Yukos representative confirmed that a visitor to Mr. Golubev's London apartment discovered his body on Monday. A post-mortem confi
 A. I. Bezzerides, whose gritty, often savage depictions of long-distance truckers, weary waitresses and others of the American proletariat appeared in taut, nimble novels and grimly expressive movies inhabited by the likes of Humphrey Bogart, died on Jan. 1 in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 
 Michael Brecker, a saxophonist who won 11 Grammy Awards and was among the most influential musicians in jazz since the 1960s, died yesterday at a hospital in New York City. He was 57 and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause of death was leukemia, said Darryl Pitt, his manager
 COHEN--Gilbert, 74, of Piermont, NY, on January 12, 2007. A C.P.A. and C.F.O. for Kamson Corp., a real estate management corp. His priority in life was his family, and his other passions were coaching, playing and watching sports. Predeceased by his wife Barbara in 1994. Survived by his wif
 CROSS--Henry B. (Hank), Jr. 92, of 981 Greenway Lane, Vero Beach, FL died Sunday, January 7, 2007, at his home. Mr. Cross was born in Providence, RI and moved to Vero Beach from Dorset, VT and West Orange, NJ. He is survived by his wife Marion Cross of Vero Beach; daughters Carin Cross of W
 CUNIFFE--Edward R. Jr. Lawyer, judge, and raconteur and, to those who knew him, a loyal, thoughtful and warm friend who left us too soon. Hazard's Hundreds.       
 DOCTOR--Daniel W. MD, died on January 10th in Palm Beach FL at age 79. Dr. Daniel Doctor devoted his life to his family and his profession. He was born and raised in the Bronx, NY. He attended the Bronx High School of Science and earned both a Bachelors and Masters of Science at New York Un
 EISENBERG--Bernard, died January 3, 2007, in Charlotte, NC, after a long illness. He was a loving husband and parent and the consummate grandfather. He is survived by his wife Ruth, sister Sally, aunt Belle, sons Lee and Carl, daughters-in-law Nancy and Penny, grandchildren Joshua, Matthew,
 GRECO--Gabriel John M.D. The Department of Ophthalmology of Saint Vincent's Catholic Medical Centers of New York notes with sadness the death of our esteemed colleague and friend. He will always be remembered for his kindness, dedication and skill.       
 KILHENNY--Joseph P. On January 10, 2007, of Glen Cove, formerly of Manhasset. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Hanley). Dear father of Carol Moore (Arthur), R. Patrick Kilhenny and Karen Fracchia (Robert). Loving grandfather of Frances and Laurence Moore and Adriana Fracchia. Brother of Charles
 NORICH--Isaac, 92, on January 10, 2007. Devoted husband of the late Sara, survived by his loving family, daughter-inlaw Deborah Ugoretz, son Samuel Norich, daughter Anita Norich, and grandchildren Gila, Nessa and Sara. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Workmen's Circle and Ameinu, former
 O'NEILL--Trevor Quaid. It is with profound sadness that the Horace Mann School mourns the death of Trevor Quaid O'Neill, beloved father of Alexander, HM 2016 and devoted husband of Ellen Marjorie Iseman. A long standing friend and supporter of Horace Mann, Trevor was a socially committed ma
 RIZZO--Frank A. M.D. The Department of Neurology at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine regrets to announce the death of its esteemed colleague, Frank A. Rizzo, M.D. Dr. Rizzo received his undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Michigan. After completing an internship at He
 SOUTO--Olimpio. September 26, 1934 -January 12, 2007. Died in his home after a long term illness. Survived by his wife, Maria, of Queens, NY.       
 SPERBER--Martin, January 13, 2007 beloved husband of Barbara and the late Sue Sperber, loving father of Jeffrey and Lori, Margie and Bill Strauss, adoring gradfather of Allie, Steven, Melissa, David and Jillian. Devoted brother to Marlene Radack. Services today 1:45pm at Gutterman 175 Long 
 TAUSSIG--Ralph J., January 11, 2007 of Huntingdon Valley, PA. Husband of Sally (nee Gimbel). Father of Andrew (Susan) Taussig, John (Barbara) Taussig and Priscilla Taussig. Grandfather of Alexander, Christopher, Gregory and Matthew. He was a banker specializing in international trade and in
 VAN METER--Michael S. On January 12th, 2007. Beloved partner of Everett Quinton, dear son of Betty and the late Marion Edward. Brother of Ronald, Jim, Gary, Denny, Carolyn, Cheryl, and Judy. Michael was an Actor with the Ridiculous Theatrical Company. Funeral Service Monday 11am at Grace an
 WEINBERG--Alvin (Tony), 94. Devoted son, talented actor, super salesman, loyal friend. Survived by his dear companion of 55 years, Robert Heitman, his brother, Jerome Weinberg, sister and brother-in-law, Ruth and Albert Finck, nephew, David Finck, niece, Harriet Finck, three grandnieces and
 WEINBERG--Hans. The Yeshiva University family joins in mourning the passing of a dedicated Administrator in the Jewish community where he was widely admired. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Joyce, to their son, Stuart, and to his cherished siblings, Yeshiva College and RIETS
 WHITMAN--R. Eugene (Gene), Whitman, 71. Pioneer in Emerging Markets Described as ''larger than life,'' ''charming, irreverent and fiercely competitive,'' Mr. Whitman was ''a true original.'' He died unexpectedly on January 7th, 2007 near his home in Sarasota, FL. Born October 12, 1935 in Mo
 KATSIKARIS--Joseph Theodore, ''Bobby'', died in his sleep at his home on St. Croix on January 4th, 2007. He touched the lives of so many people. He will be sadly missed. He was the manager of Club Thrush from 1969 until 1973. Any friends, patrons or co-workers (espically bouncers) who would
 MITTNACHT--Richard. Born on September 30, 1925 in Stamford, CT, died on January 1, 2007. Mr. Mittnacht is survived by his fiancee, Miss L. Kim Jones and his children, Richard A. Mittnacht, Jr. and Katherine C. Mittnacht. Educated at Kent School and Princeton University, Mr. Mittnacht starte
 Michael Brecker, a saxophonist who won 11 Grammy Awards and was among the most influential musicians in jazz since the 1960s, died on Saturday in New York. He was 57 and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause was leukemia, said Darryl Pitt, his manager. Having taken a d
 BLOOM--Steven Dennis. Beloved husband of Susan, father of Andrew, Jonathan, and Marcy; father-in-law of Ina and Marci; grandfather of Jared, Jordyn, Hanna and Chase, son of Ruth, brother of Judy and Robert. A solid and cherished brother - in - law, uncle, colleague and friend. Though his go
 CUNNIFFE--Edward R., Jr., on January 12, in New York City. A brilliant lawyer, a loving and loyal friend to many, he will be deeply missed by Maureen, Susan and Laura Gilman. Funeral Mass: Thursday, January 18, 10:00am, St. Jean the Baptiste Church, 76th Street and Lexington Ave. In lieu of
 GREENBERG--Milton, Laur, 88, died suddenly and peacefully on January 12th, 2007 at the California Veterans Home in Yountville, after having Parkinson's for 12 years. He lived in Port Chester and Rye, NY and Santa Rosa, CA. He was an Air Transport Command navigator in WWII; a manufacturers r
 RING--Monis M. ''Morris''. Age 71, of San Diego, formerly of New Jersey and Massachusetts. Entered into rest January 12, 2007. Beloved son of the late Samuel and Helen(Poresky) Ring. Dear cousin of Betty Ravelson, Steven Ring, the late Louis and David Bedrick. Also survived by the Majeski f
 SCHNEYER--A. Edward, died peacefully in his sleep on January 13th, 2007 at age 95. Devoted husband of 69 years to Kate Schneyer; beloved father of Richard Schneyer, and daughter-in-law Nancy, and the late Susan Preston; proud and loving grandfather of Michael Preston and his wife Karen, Mar
 STRASSER--Richard died January 14 , 2007. He is survived by his loving wife Diane, and his adoring children Karen and Marc Gallucci and Leslie Strasser. Dick was an avid skier, tennis player, sailor, golfer and a superb bridge player. He was an innovator in the mortgage insurance industry w
 TEPEDINO--Vincent M. on January 13, 2007. Founder of Tepedino & Company, a certified public accounting firm located in Garden City, NY. Generously gave of his time and talents to many charitable and educational organizations. He served on many corporate and philantropic boards. Beloved husb
 Bradford Washburn, an explorer and cartographer who, as director of the Museum of Science in Boston, led a landmark mapping of the Grand Canyon, died on Wednesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 96. His death was confirmed by his family. An accomplished mountaineer, p
 Elkan R. Blout, a biochemist and top science administrator at Harvard whose career included color film developing and sharpening research standards at the Food and Drug Administration, died Dec. 20 in Boston. He was 87. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. In the 1950s,
 DODGE--Marshall Jewell, Jr. died peacefully after a long illness in Sarasota, Florida on January 8, 2007. He was the beloved husband of the late Alice Rutgers Dodge, the father of the late Marshall Jewell Dodge II and of Frederic Pratt Dodge, the stepfather of Anthony Drexel Duke, Jr. and N
 ELIAS--Albert J., passed away peacefully at his home on Jupiter Island, FL at the age of 86 on Saturday , January 13th, 2007. He leaves behind his loving wife of 62 years Rea, sons Albert L. and William Elias, grandchildren Vanessa and Lee Krelstein, Jon and Ben Elias. Born in NYC on Septem
 ENRIQUEZ--Rogelio, M.D. passed away peacefully at the beginning of his 81st year on January 14, 2007. As a physician, he ministered to the Cuban-American community. He was the pillar of his extensive family whom he revered. Roger was a grand master Bridge player. His generosity, kindness an
 KOPLIK--Benjamin Dr. died on January 13. He attended Bucknell University and NYU College of Dentistry. He was a Fellow of the American College of Dentists and International College of Dentists, President of the American Analgesic Association and Eastern Dental Society, Treasurer of the 1st 
 McBRIDE--Richard James, 75, died in Greenport, NY on January 12, 2007. He was part of the original team that in 1962 helped organize and launch what would become the PBS Television Station Channel 13, WNET, where he continued to work for the next quarter century. He is survived by his siste
 MCTAGUE--Fr. Charles Hubert died January 13 in Kearny, NJ. Until recently, he had lived at Holy Cross Church in Harrison, NJ. Born in Buffalo, NY January 9, 1920, to Charles Francis McTague and Charlotte Le Blond, he joined Seafarers Union of the Pacific in 1938. A graduate of Seton Hall Co
 MITTLEMAN--Frank, 89, of Boynton Beach, Florida, died January 11, 2007. Loving husband of 64 years to wife Grace Meropol. Survived by his son Dr. Henry L. Mittleman, wife Barbara, daughter Sharon Tauber and her husband Yale, grandchildren Marcus Tauber, wife Elysabeth, and Hayes, husband to
 NEWMAN--Robert M. On Sunday January 14, 2007. Robert M. Newman of Potomac, MD formerly of NYC, beloved husband of the late Rhoda Newman (nee Seamon), devoted father of Robert (Leni) Newman Jr., Nancy (Scott) Ogden, and Alice (Ron) Daino, loving brother of Marvin of CT, and the late Simon Jr
 RAICER--Julius B., 87. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, friend and colleague, Julius died peacefully at his home in Morristown, NJ on January 9, 2007, surrounded by family. Julius was a WWII Veteran, President of Dover Furniture, partner in Whippany Manor, and active in commercial real
 ROMAN--Armand E. Jr. passed away, in Richmond, VA, on January 12, 2007. He lived most of his life in New York City where he established a successful antiques business. A memorial service will be held at St. Paul's Episcopal Church on January 17, 2007 at 10 am. Interment in Hollywood Cemeter
 SCHMAIS--Aaron, devoted husband of Claire and loving father of Beth, Michael and Libby passed away peacefully on January 14th. Athlete and advocate for the underprivileged. Always calm, cool and caring. In his professional career, he worked with street gangs, in the U.S. government's War on
 TIMBERLAKE--Craig Allison, of Ogunquit Maine (formerly of New York City), passed away December 31, 2006, at the age of 86, at Mercy Hospital, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma while visiting his sister and brother-in-law, Dodee and Jack Moncrief. Craig was born in Oil City, Pennsylvania October 30, 1
 VOSE--Elliott Evans, of New York City and Quogue, New York, died on Saturday January 13th of pneumonia. He was born in Boston, Massachusets on November 30th, 1923, the son of the late Winifred Elliott Vose and Zelman Evans Vose. He was a graduate of Phillips Academy Andover 1942, Yale Colle
 MITTNACHT--Richard. Born on September 30, 1925 in Stamford, CT, died on January 1, 2007. Mr. Mittnacht is survived by his fiancee, Miss L. Kim Jones and his children, Richard A. Mittnacht, Jr. and Katherine C. Mittnacht. Educated at Kent School and Princeton University, Mr. Mittnacht starte
 DUNDES--Lester His 93rd Birthday, today. Still missed by family and friends       
 Benny Parsons, a popular champion auto racer who became a home-spun analyst for Nascar's nationally televised races, died yesterday in Charlotte, N.C. He was 65 and lived in Ellerbe, N.C. The cause was complications of lung cancer, according to Performance Racing Network, with which
 Bo Yibo, the last of the Eight Immortals, Communist Party leaders who steered China through a politically volatile shift from Maoism to today's market-oriented economic boom, died Monday. He was 98. His death was announced Tuesday evening by the official news agency Xinhua. 
 John W. Simpson, a former top executive and engineer for the Westinghouse Electric Corporation who played a major role in developing the nation's first commercial nuclear power plant and its first nuclear-powered submarine, the U.S.S. Nautilus, died Jan. 4 near his home on Hilton Head Islan
 BELTH--Don Zvi, 69, of the Upper West Side in Manhattan, died unexpectedly on Monday, January 15. Son of Helen and Nathan Caro Belth, loving husband of Kathy Neily, father of Alex, Samantha and Ben, father-in-law of Erin and Emily, grandfather of Lucas, brother of Bernice Belth, brother-in-
 CINCOTTA--Joseph J., on January 13, 2007. Died peacefully in his sleep after a long illness, bravely borne, at age 83. He passed away at home surrounded by love and a devoted circle of friends. Beloved husband of the late Marion (nee Ferguson). Cherished father of Constance. Loving brother 
 CONGDON--James B. died peacefully on January 14, 2007, at Cathedral Village, Philadelphia, PA. Born in Cape Town in 1924, and raised in Cedarhurst, New York, he attended St. George's School and graduated from Yale University. He served in the Pacific as an officer in the Navy during World W
 DODGE--Marshall Jewell, Jr. died peacefully after a long illness in Sarasota, Florida on January 8, 2007. He was the beloved husband of the late Alice Rutgers Dodge, the father of the late Marshall Jewell Dodge II and of Frederic Pratt Dodge, the stepfather of Anthony Drexel Duke, Jr. and N
 DUDELHEIM--Hans. The New School deeply mourns the passing of Hans Dudelheim, a beloved member of the film production faculty since 1996, who died of injuries sustained in a motorbike accident in Puerto Rico on January 4th. Hans was an award-winning (Emmy, CINE Golden Eagle) film editor with
 ELIAS--Albert J. The Board of Directors, volunteers, consumers and families of United Cerebral Palsy of NYC send our heartfelt condolences to the family of Albert J. Elias, known affectionately as ''Hemmingway.'' Albert Eline was a long time supporter and member of the board. He was an Hono
 MCTAGUE--Fr. Charles Hubert died January 13 in Kearny, NJ. Until recently, he had lived at Holy Cross Church in Harrison, NJ. Born in Buffalo, NY January 9, 1920, to Charles Francis McTague and Charlotte Le Blond, he joined Seafarers Union of the Pacific in 1938. A graduate of Seton Hall Co
 MEISLIN--Nathan, 84, of Allentown, PA., died Monday after a stroke. A World War II veteran and Lehigh University graduate, he retired in 1988 as president of Fountain Hill Mills, a knitwear manufacturing concern he owned with late father Paul and late brother Ira. Survived by his wife of 58
 MORGAN--Alfred J., 87, of Darien, CT, formerly of Englewood, NJ, died January 14, 2007, at Englewood Hospital. Born December 12, 1919, in New York City, he was the son of the late Alfred and Mabel Gray Morgan. He was a retired attorney from Bigham Engler Jones and Houston, in New York, NY, 
 SULLIVAN--Brother J. Stephen, F.S.C. The Manhattan College Alumni Society mourns the passing of Brother J. Stephen Sullivan, F.S.C., the College's 17th President, on January 9th. His support for the Manhattan College Alumni Society generated new strength and accomplishments for the society 
 VOSE--Elliott Evans, of New York City and Quogue, New York, died on Saturday January 13th of pneumonia. He was born in Boston, Massachusets on November 30th, 1923, the son of the late Winifred Elliott Vose and Zelman Evans Vose. He was a graduate of Phillips Academy Andover 1942, Yale Colle
 Bob Zawoluk, an all-American center at St. John's in the early 1950s who became the university's longtime career scoring leader, and then endured a troubled life far from the basketball spotlight, died Jan. 9 in Spring Valley, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, his daught
 BELTH--Don Zvi, 69, of the Upper West Side in Manhattan, died unexpectedly on Monday, January 15. Son of Helen and Nathan Caro Belth, loving husband of Kathy Neily, father of Alex, Samantha and Ben, father-in-law of Erin and Emily, grandfather of Lucas, brother of Bernice Belth, brother-in-
 CINCOTTA--Joseph J., on January 13, 2007. Died peacefully in his sleep after a long illness, bravely borne, at age 83. He passed away at home surrounded by love and a devoted circle of friends. Beloved husband of the late Marion (nee Ferguson). Cherished father of Constance. Loving brother 
 CUNNIFFE--Edward R. Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Edward R. Cunniffe Jr., a Veteran member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith, IV, President Brian G. Andersson, H
 DODGE--Marshall Jewell, Jr. died peacefully after a long illness in Sarasota, Florida on January 8, 2007. He was the beloved husband of the late Alice Rutgers Dodge, the father of the late Marshall Jewell Dodge II and of Frederic Pratt Dodge, the stepfather of Anthony Drexel Duke, Jr. and N
 HORNBLASS--Albert, M.D. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary notes with sorrow the passing of an esteemed attending surgeon and consultant in ophthalmic plastic and reconstructive surgery. Joseph B. Walsh, M.D. Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology Robert C. Dellarocca, M.D. Chief, Oculoplast
 McCREDIE--William Black, 80, died at home in New York on January 14, 2007. He is survived by his brother, James, of Princeton, NJ, his nephew, Miles, of Akron, OH, and his niece, Meredeth Winter, of South Freeport, ME.       
 RIZZO--Frank A. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our colleague, teacher, and friend. Dr. Rizzo devoted 40 years of service to the institution, specializing in Neurology and Neuro - Endocrinology. He was an excellent and extremely compa
 Thomas A. Lyson, an influential sociologist at Cornell who argued that rural towns and small farms could survive economically by selling locally produced goods to regional markets, died on Dec. 28 in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 58. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Lyson ex
 Art Buchwald, who satirized the follies of the rich, the famous and the powerful for half a century as the most widely read newspaper humorist of his time, died Wednesday night in Washington. He was 81. The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Joel. Mr. Buchwald, long a pillar of
 BUCHWALD--Art. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrows the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt. $(6$)BUCHWALD--Art. The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University mourns the loss of Art Buchwald, a ver
 CINCOTTA--Joseph J., on January 13, 2007. Died peacefully in his sleep after a long illness, bravely borne, at age 83. He passed away at home surrounded by love and a devoted circle of friends. Beloved husband of the late Marion (nee Ferguson). Cherished father of Constance. Loving brother 
 DELISO--Ralph S. died New Year's Eve age 82. He was our friend for more than 55 years. We will miss him. Robert and Anita Levien       
 HITCHENS--Robert C., former Vice President of SIN Television, died on December 30, 2006 at age 85. A resident of Seaford, NY, he is survived by his wife, Margaret Sayward Hitchens, daughter, Patricia J. Hitchens-Bonow, and grandsons Robert H. Bonow and Samuel C. Bonow. A Naval aviation navi
 HORNBLASS--Albert. I mourn the untimely passing of Dr. Albert Hornblass. He was a great mentor, colleague and friend. The entire Ophthalmic community will miss his warmth and intellect. Dr. Marc Werner $(6$)HORNBLASS--Albert, M.D. Lenox Hill Hospital and Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat 
 KRAAR--Ronald. The leadership and staff of the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourn the passing of Dr. Ronald Kraar, beloved brother of our Executive Vice President Martin Kraar. We salute Ronald Kraar's distinguished career and devotion to his patients in his opto
 LEWIS--Everett E., died on January 12th. A lifelong New Yorker, Everett was born on August 12, 1924 and attended DeWitt Clinton High School. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1942 and served in the Pacific. After the war, he completed his CCNY degree and went on to NYU Law School. He spe
 ZELNICK--Ernest, Ph.D. 85, Husband of Harriet, father of Mark and wife Andrea, Ellen and husband Alan Kaplan, and Ronald and wife Jacklyn. Devoted grandfather of Dana and Michael Zelnick, and Aaron and Ariella Kaplan. Founder of Professional Hearing Aid, attorney, renowned audiologist, inno
 Ron Carey, the pint-sized, round-faced comic best known as the unjustifiably cocky Police Officer Carl Levitt on the long-running television situation comedy ''Barney Miller,'' died Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 71. He died of a stroke at a hospital near his home, a nephew, Michael
 Curt Dempster, a founder and the artistic director of the Ensemble Studio Theater, a New York institution that has served as an incubator for thousands of new American plays, was found dead yesterday morning in his apartment in Greenwich Village. He was 71. David Gersten, a spokesma
 Denny Doherty, a founding member of the 1960s folk-pop band the Mamas and the Papas, died yesterday at his home in Mississauga, Ontario. He was 66. The cause was not immediately known, his daughter Emberly said. But she said her father had recently suffered kidney failure after surg
 BUCHWALD--Art. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt.       
 BUXBAUM--Robert (Bux), 67, sculptor and gourmand, died on Thursday of cancer. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, Esilda; daughter, Rica Allannic; son-in-law, Cyrille; grandson, Adrian; sister, Elaine Cousins; and niece, Monica Noraian. Born in Brooklyn, he studied architecture at Corne
 EVANS--Tilghman Boyd, age 74, of Bainbridge Island, Washington, died on January 8, 2007. He is survived by his wife, Margaret Terry Red Evans, of Bainbridge Island, Washington; a brother, Elwyn Evans, and sister, Katharine Reese May, both of Wilmington, Delaware; a daughter, Shelley Evans, 
 HORNBLASS--Albert. The Ophthalmic Laser Surgical Society mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Albert Hornblass. He was a distinguished surgeon who made many contributions to ophthalmic, orbital, plastic, and reconstructive surgery. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his fam
 McENIRY--Murray W., 92, former General Counsel to Mobil Oil Corporation's International Division and a resident of Scarsdale for more than 50 years, died Saturday, January 13, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He was born July 2, 1914 in Bessemer, Alabama, the son of William Hugh and Dora Winter
 SEDERBAUM--Art. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Art Sederbaum. His good nature, quick wit and sharp intellect will be missed by us and by the entire estate planning community. The 40s Discussion Group SEDERBAUM--Arthur. The Bankers and Lawyers Advisory Committee of 
 VANOLE--David Charles, passed away suddenly and tragically on January 15th, 2007, at the age of 43. He was with his wife, Kerry Tatlock, at the time; the pair were in Salt Lake City, UT, on a ski trip with her family. Born in Redondo Beach, CA, on February 6, 1963, Dave grew up in Manhattan
 Richard A. Musgrave, an economist who has been called the father of modern public finance, died Monday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 96. He died of natural causes, said his wife, Peggy Brewer Musgrave, also an economist. Mr. Musgrave took about 20 years to conceive, write and
 BARR--Peter N., of Westwood, MA, formerly of Wellesley Hills, retired chairman of the Board of Barr & Barr, Inc. Builders of New York and Boston, died Monday, January 15, 2007 at his home in Westwood at the age of 86. He was the husband of the late Barbara Stuart Barr. Born in New York City
 BRECKER--Michael, 57, internationally renowned saxophonist and composer, dies. EzerMizion, World's Largest Jewish Bone Marrow Registry, regrets the loss of this most caring man who was among the most influential musicians of his generation. To contribute: www.ezermizion.org       
 BUCHWALD--Art. The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University mourns the loss of Art Buchwald, a very special supporter, who was invaluable to us from the very beggining. I mourn the loss of a very dear friend with whom I shared many meals, Redskin footba
 BUXBAUM--Robert (Bux), 67, sculptor and gourmand, died on Thursday of cancer. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, Esilda; daughter, Rica Allannic; son-in-law, Cyrille; grandson, Adrian; sister, Elaine Cousins; and niece, Monica Noraian. Born in Brooklyn, he studied architecture at Corne
 CANNON--Alexander P. Kane Lodge No. 454 F. & A. M. mourns with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed brother and Past Master on January 13. He was a member of the craft for 46 years and served as our Master in 1969. Having retired to Florida, he still kept in regular touch with the Lodge
 EVANS--Tilghman Boyd, age 74, of Bainbridge Island, Washington, died on January 8, 2007. He is survived by his wife, Margaret Terry Red Evans, of Bainbridge Island, Washington; a brother, Elwyn Evans, and sister, Katharine Reese May, both of Wilmington, Delaware; a daughter, Shelley Evans, 
 EXELBY--Phillip R., M.D. The Departments of Pediatrics and Surgery at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the passing of Phillip R. Exelby, M.D. Dr. Exelby was Chief of the Pediatric Surgical Service from 1971-1996, the Acting Chairman of Pediatrics from 1982 - 1986, and Member, Em
 GOODEN--Wilfred G., O.D. 84, of Riverdale, NY, died on January 6, in Kingston, Jamaica, of a heart attack while on a charity mission giving gifts to the children of needy families. The American Friends of Jamaica (AFJ) mourns the loss of one of its founders and an esteemed member of the Boa
 HIRSCH--Oliver, 60, died January 15 in NYC. He was Exhibitions Director of the Raices Latin Music Museum, Professor of Exhibition Design in the Graduate Program at NYU and President of Hirsch and Associates Fine Arts Services, Inc. From Vietnam War resister to coal miner, musician, art prof
 JONES--Thomas W. CSP. Age 51, died Tuesday, January 16, in Los Angeles. Father Jones was ordained in 1982 at St. Paul the Apostle Church in New York City. Fr. Jones served at St. Nicholas Parish in North Pole Alaska, as UCLA director of campus ministry and as the Paulist Fathers First Consu
 KLEIN--Murray A., 84, died January 18, 2007, after a brief illness. He was a pillar of the retail community, an owner of Fine and Klein Handbags on the Lower East Side. He was the beloved husband of Esther, his wife of 54 years; devoted father to Sharon, Michael and Linda; and grandfather t
 LEWIS--Everett E., died on January 12th. A lifelong New Yorker, Everett was born on August 12, 1924 and attended DeWitt Clinton High School. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1942 and served in the Pacific. After the war, he completed his CCNY degree and went on to NYU Law School. He spe
 MAGNOR--Michael Edward, a former resident of 101 Erledon Road, Tenafly, NJ for over 50 years, and Palm Beach Gardens, FL, died at his home on Sunday, January 14, 2007 at the age of 95. Mr. Magnor was employed by Underwood Mortgage & Title Company for forty years, spending the last decade as
 MARTIN--Morgan Graham, M.D., of Gravel Street, Mystic, died Friday, November 3rd. He was 85. Dr. Martin was a Psychiatrist, and from 1966 through 1978 he was the Superintendent of Norwich Hospital. Dr. Martin was born in Hamilton, Ontario on April 19, 1921. He received his Medical Degree fr
 MOORE--Harrison W. Jr., 88, of Bronxville, died on January 16, 2007. Beloved husband of Martha (the former Mrs. Ivan Bennett) and the late Elizabeth Crane Moore (Betty). Loving father of Chris Moore and his wife Mary Sue. Cherished grandfather of Sally Elizabeth Moore and Daniel Harrison Mo
 RESNICK--Seymour, of Great Neck, 87. Loving husband, father, grandfather; a brilliant romance language educator and scholar. A gentle soul, he will be missed by all who knew him.       
 SEDERBAUM--Art. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Art Sederbaum. His good nature, quick wit and sharp intellect will be missed by us and by the entire estate planning community. The 40s Discussion Group $(6$)SEDERBAUM--Arthur. The Bankers and Lawyers Advisory Committee of the
 SEIDMAN--David, 86, died January 19, 2007. Devoted husband of Joyce for 64 years. Beloved father of Andrew, Patricia, and Deborah. Cherished father-in-law of David and Roberta. Adored grandfather of Douglas, Richard, Lauren, Elena and Matthew. United States Navy World War II veteran. Former
 VANOLE--David. Dave, warming milk for coffee and your culinary expertise, especially last Sunday's unforgettable pasta. We never did find what we were looking for on the net. We will always cherish your generosity of spirit and gregariousness. To our dearest Kerry, we send you all our bless
 YELEN--George Rutherford, died on January 19th, 2007; he was 90. He enjoyed singing, dancing the khazatske, and drinking scotch on the rocks which, if possible, he would gladly do all at once. He loved a good meal and a good joke. He was a veteran of the U.S. Navy in WWII and Chairman of th
 ZAKARIN--Leo Samuel, January 14, 1918 to January 19, 2007. Survived by Pearl, his beloved wife of nearly 61 years, his four children, Ellen (Jeff), Don (Mindy), Cheryl (James), Eric (Barbara), nine grandchildren, one greatgrandson and his treasured brothers, Victor, Irving and of blessed me
 BUCHBINDER--Norman Thomas, died peacefully in his home in New York City on January 20th. Mae's beloved husband of fifty years, loving and magnificent father of Lori and Susan, dynamic father - in - law of William Abramson and Raymond McDaniel, and amazing grandfather to Jake, David, Jade an
 TULL--Patrick. Actor and narrator, died September 23, 2006. He is survived by his wife, Sue, and their daughters Katherine and Siobhan and granddaughter Cara. Memorial service January 24, 2007 at 2:00 pm, Church of the Transfiguration, New York City.       
 Robert Noortman, a gregarious, risk-taking dealer who was a major force in the market for old master and French Impressionist paintings, died on Sunday at his castle in the Belgian countryside, just over the border from his base in Maastricht, the Netherlands. He was 60. Caldwell Do
 James Hillier, a physicist and inventor who helped develop an early and commercially successful electron microscope for RCA and then found ways to apply it for medical research, died last Monday in Princeton, N.J. He was 91. The cause was a stroke, his family said. In 1938, 
 FEIGENBAUM--Irving Leonard., Died at 85 years and 11 months. Passed away, on Thursday, January 18th, 2007. He left behind a wife Phyllis Roth-Feigendaum, a stepson Richard A. Roth, stepdaughter Charlene Curtiss-Roth and two grandchildren; Ingrid and Alexander. He did Nuclear physics researc
 GOLDBERG--Eli M. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member Eli Goldberg and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Grace and their family. David C. Bubes,
 KLEIN--Anshel. The rabbis, officers, trustees, and members of Congregation Adereth El, extend our deepest condolencses to Synagogue Treasurer and friend, Dr. Noah Klein (Susan Davidowitz) on the loss of his father. Alan Koffler and Stuart Krause, Co-Presidents.       
 SEDERBAUM--Arthur D. died peacefully at his home in New York City on January 19, surrounded by his beloved wife, Jayne M. Kurzman, daughters, Rebecca and Elizabeth, son David and his wife, Phoenix, sister Caroline Sederbaum and stepchildren, Anthony and Pamela Rykowski. He is also survived 
 SEIDMAN--David, 86, died January 19, 2007. Devoted husband of Joyce for 64 years. Beloved father of Andrew, Patricia, and Deborah. Cherished father-in-law of David and Roberta. Adored grandfather of Douglas, Richard, Lauren, Elena and Matthew. United States Navy World War II veteran. Former
 BUCHBINDER--Norman Thomas, died peacefully in his home in New York City on January 20th. Mae's beloved husband of fifty years, loving and magnificent father of Lori and Susan, dynamic father - in - law of William Abramson and Raymond McDaniel, and amazing grandfather to Jake, David, Jade an
 WALLERSTEIN--Lawrence The congregation of Westerchester Reform Temple mourns the death of it's long time devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan E. Blake, Associate Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Jack Stern Jr., Rab
 TULL--Patrick. Actor and narrator, died September 23, 2006. He is survived by his wife, Sue, and their daughters Katherine and Siobhan and granddaughter Cara. Memorial service January 24, 2007 at 2:00 pm, Church of the Transfiguration, New York City.       
 Abb Pierre, who in the 1950s as a gaunt priest with a crook-handled cane and a profoundly persuasive passion mobilized France to attend to its homeless, then kept pressing his crusade until he became known as the country's moral compass, died yesterday in Paris. He was 94. The cau
 ARNING--Lee D. Wall Street's ''Marryin' Sam'' Dies at 83. Lee D. Arning, former Senior Vice-President of Operations for the New York Stock Exchange during the 1960s and early 1970s, died at his home in Ocean View, New Jersey at the age of 83 of congestive heart failure. Mr. Arning, a sevent
 BERGIER--Arnold Henry, 92, on Friday, January 19th. A sculptor, collagist, and caricaturist, Mr. Bergier is listed in ''Who's Who in American Art''. His sculptures include portraits from life of prominent persons, works for synagogues and churches, and public buildings. As a young man he sa
 CORN--Kenneth R., age 79, died January 21. He is survived by his wife Diane and his sons, David, Steven and Barry.       
 FRIED--Morris (Murray). The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague Morris Fried, who faithfully served the Medical Center for 39 years as a member of the Board. He had a deep devotion to the Medical Center and was pa
 GOLDBERG--Eli. The Jewish Community Center Of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed founding member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Grace, his sons Donald, Bart, Andrew and to the entire family. Aubrey L. Glazer, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Paul D. Hendle
 GOODMAN--Gerald, resident of Heritage Village and formerly of Hewlett Bay Park, Long Island, died on January 21st. He was president of Ben Goodman & Son in New York City and was a dedicated volunteer for many years of the Woodmere Fire Department. Gerald was predeceased by his two sons Mich
 HARDIN--Edward, photo grapher. Known professionally as Ted Hardin, died January 20th, 2007 of cancer. He was pre-deceased by his son Christopher Hardin and is survived his wife Sara and his beloved daughter Haley Hardin, his sister Diana Walker of Washington DC and his brother B. L. Hardin 
 HOFFMANN--George, 91, on January 19, 2007. Beloved husband of the Hon. Anita Florio, Associate Justice of the Appellate Division, 2nd Department. Devoted brother of the late Paul Hoffmann. Cherished uncle to Michelle and Paul Hoffman Jr. and grand uncle to Marina, Monica, Paul III, and Eric
 LAZARUS--Jerome, Age 83. A long time resident of New York and Florida died January 18th of natural causes. Devoted husband to Connie, cherished father to Judy, Suzie, and Dennis, adored grandfather to Scott, Jason, David, Heather, Danielle, and Bianca, great-grandfather to Isla. A dashing y
 McCALLION--Donald G. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Donald G. McCallion, a Veteran member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith, IV, President Brian G. Andersson, Histori
 ROSENBAUM--Cantor Jacob H. The Yeshiva University/ RIETS family is deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed, long-time Trustee of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) who had a special interest in its Philip and Sarah Belz School of Jewish Music. With his beloved wife
 SEDERBAUM--Arthur D. Krass, Snow & Schmutter, P.C. mourns the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Art Sederbaum. Our deepest sympathies to Jayne and the Sederbaum family. $(6$)SEDERBAUM--Arthur. With affection and profound sadness, we mourn the loss of our partner, Arthur Sederba
 TAYLOR--Paul, Jr. The Rogosin Institute's Board of Directors and Staff members mourn the loss of esteemed board member, Paul Taylor, Jr. He was a creator of The Institute and a member of the original Rogosin Institute Advisory Board. He and his wife, Anne Cote Taylor, have been devoted frie
 BUCHBINDER--Norman, The Governors, members and staff of the Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Norman Buchbinder, co-founder of Buchbinder and Warren and a distinguished REBNY member for over 40 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Mae, daughters Lori and Sus
 TRACHTENBERG--Jacob (Jack), of Riverdale, January 21, 2007. Beloved husband of Elaine (Boriskin) Trachtenberg. Devoted father of Ira Weintraub and Anne McGuire of Weymouth, MA. Loving grandfather of Johanna and Kathryn Weintraub. Also survived by brother, Leo Trachtenberg, nephew Daniel Tra
 E. Howard Hunt, a cold warrior for the Central Intelligence Agency who left the spy service in disillusionment, joined the Nixon White House as a secret agent and bungled the break-in at the Watergate that brought the president down in disgrace, died Tuesday in Miami. He was 88. His
 BERGIER--Arnold Henry, 92, on Friday, January 19th. A sculptor, collagist, and caricaturist, Mr. Bergier is listed in ''Who's Who in American Art''. His sculptures include portraits from life of prominent persons, works for synagogues and churches, and public buildings. As a young man he sa
 BERKOWITZ--David, died peacefully with his family by his side on Monday evening. Adoring husband to Kathy, cherished father to Stacey and Peter, and loving son to Judy. David was a caring, brilliant man who inspired everyone around him with his love for life, commitment to family and friend
 BILLOTTI--Joseph, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of our friend, colleague and co-resident, Dr. Joe Billotti. We will miss his friendship, energy and love of life. We were always able to count on him as a highly regarded physician and true friend. Our deepest sympathy to his 
 KARNAL--George J. Passed away peacefully in Burlingame, CA, on January 20, 2007, at age 92. Husband of Audrey Karnal; father of Karen and George Kingston and the late Craig Karnal; grandfather, uncle and cousin to many. Born in Brooklyn, NY, and raised in New Jersey. In 1947, after he was m
 LEIMAN--Eugene A., died peacefully in his sleep at age 92 on January 20th, 2007. Gene was our law partner for many years and retired as counsel only two years ago. A graduate of City College and NYU Law School, he practiced law for over 65 years, including almost 50 years in insurance litig
 PENROSE--Charles Jr. of Darien, Connecticut on January 19, 2007. Retired from The Newcomen Society of the United States as Chairman and CEO. Husband of Ann, father of James, Thomas and John and grandfather of Julia, Charlotte, Isabel and Benjamin. Mr. Penrose is also survived by his sister,
 ROSEMAN--Harvey, 71 died on January 22nd, 2007 from complications of melanoma. He was the beloved husband of Karen; devoted father of Lillian and Paul, grandfather of Alex, Jake, Max and Sam and special friend of Rascal, Puff & Pumpkin. Harvey was a lifelong New Yorker born in Bklyn & gradu
 SIMONS--Benjamin, 84. On January 22nd. Husband of his beloved Matilda Cohen Simons for 60 years. Born in NYC to Clara and Joseph Simons. Ben attended the NY High School of Printing, but left school early to join the army's 2nd Infantry Division Indianheads, joining the forces on D-Day and f
 TAYLOR--Paul Edward Jr. I mourn the passing of my friend, mentor and partner of many years. I extend my deepest sympathies to his extraordinary family and many friends. Harvey Schulweis $(6$)TAYLOR--Paul Edward Jr. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Paul E. Taylor Jr., who ser
 WALSH--Thomas J., Jr., on January 19th, 2007, age 78 of Stuart, FL, formerly of Woodbury, L.I. Beloved husband of Gloria A. Loving father of Rosellen Schnurr (Robert), Thomas J. III (Mary), and Marianne Saladino (Jerome). Cherished grandfather of Brian Schnurr, Michael Schnurr, Thomas J. Wa
 Ryszard Kapuscinski, a globe-trotting journalist from Poland whose writing, often tinged with magical realism, brought him critical acclaim and a wide international readership, died yesterday in Warsaw. He was 74. His death, at a hospital, was reported by PAP, the Polish news agency
 Helmut K. Wimmer, whose vivid depictions of twirling planets, glowing comets, pulsing nebulas and space-bending black holes awed thousands of visitors craning their necks under the dome of the old Hayden Planetarium for more than 30 years, died on March 20, 2006, near his home in Stuart, Fl
 James B. Farley, an executive who moved seamlessly between the worlds of management consulting and corporate America, died on Saturday at his home in Gulf Stream, Fla. He was 76. Mr. Farley died after a prolonged illness, according to Booz Allen Hamilton, the consulting firm that Mr
 Mendy Samstein, who left graduate school to put himself in the forefront of the fight for black voting rights in Mississippi, enduring bombings and beatings in the crucial summer of 1964, died yesterday at his home in New Lisbon, N.Y. He was 68. The cause was carcinoid cancer, his w
 BERKOWITZ--David, died peacefully with his family by his side on Monday evening. Adoring husband to Kathy, cherished father to Stacey and Peter, and loving son to Judy. David was a caring, brilliant man who inspired everyone around him with his love for life, commitment to family and friend
 BLUMSTEIN--Allan, we mourn the loss of our dear friend Allan and extend our condolences to Susan, Eve, and Zachary. With love, Dottie and Marty. $(6$)BLUMSTEIN--Allan. My husband of many years. I was proud to be married to you, I learned much from your brilliant mind and your deep c
 BURNHAM--Robert. The Steinhardt School at NYU mourns the loss of former dean Robert Burnham. Bob served as dean for seven years and retired as professor emeritus in 1996. He was a committed administrator and scholar whose leadership shaped our School. We send our deepest condolences to his 
 FEIL--Seymour. We wish to express our profound sorrow over the passing of a dear friend and business associate. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Yvette and the entire family. Liliane and Andrew Ratner $(6$)FEIL--Seymour, a kind and loving man has left us with wonderfu
 GABEL--JACK. The Yeshiva University family notes with sadness the passing of the beloved husband of Stefanie; father of Joyce (and Daniel) Straus who together with his brother, Moshael, are YU Guardians, and father of Jeffrey (and Debbie); grandfather of seven. Sincerest condolences are ext
 GLABMAN--Sheldon, M.D. April 13, 1932-January 23, 2007. A man of enormous intelligence, compassion, charm and wit. He loved wine, women, song and fly fishing, though not necessarily in that order. A Physician dedicated to the Art of Medicine. He is survived by his children Meridith (Rocco),
 LEVINSON--Irwin, 77, died January 24, 2007, under hospice care. He was fun and funny, and was always the life of the party. He loved music and playing the piano, brilliant entreprenuer. Avid tennis player and struggling golfer. Beloved by countless friends, devoted husband to Dede, father t
 MELLONI--Vincent Rocco, was born in the Bronx, NY; graduated from New York University and Brooklyn School of Law and practiced law for over 50 years with offices in the Bronx, NY. Visiting hours will be Thursday, January 25, 2007, 2-4 pm and 7-9 pm, Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenu
 TAYLOR--Paul Edward Jr. I mourn the passing of my friend, mentor and partner of many years. I extend my deepest sympathies to his extraordinary family and many friends. Harvey Schulweis $(6$)TAYLOR--Paul E. Jr. Wachtel & Masyr mourns the passing of our friend and client, Paul Taylor
 Daniel Stern, who sifted through his careers in jazz and symphonic music, advertising, movies and academia for psychic grist for the bittersweet, tightly crafted novels and short stories that were his crowning achievement, died Wednesday in Houston. He was 79. The cause was complica
 John W. Lavelle, the assemblyman for the 61st District and chairman of the Democratic Party on Staten Island, died Wednesday. He was 57. His death, at Richmond University Medical Center, followed a stroke, said Marlene Markoe-Boyd, a spokeswoman for the family. Mr. Lavelle, 
 BERNSTEIN--Howard, 63, died of cancer in Nyack, NY, on January 15, 2007. Dr. Bernstein received his doctorate in History from Columbia University in 1972. A prolific writer and gifted teacher, he touched the lives of generations of students over the course of twenty years as a professor at 
 FINEGOOD--Daniel. DOROT mourns the untimely loss of Daniel Finegood, brother of our friend and benefactor, Freddi, brother-in-law to our board member, benefactor and friend, Ethan Horwitz and cherished son of our longtime supporter, Rae Finegood. Danny was truly a source of light and joy fo
 GARFINKEL--David A., 51, beloved husband of Shelley and father of Pamela, Alicia, and Lauren. Also, beloved son of Gloria and Barry, brother of James and Paul, and brother-in-law of Georganne and Holly. Too young to die, loyal friend to many; with an extraordinarily persevering and winning 
 JACKSON--Charles Probyn, age 90 of Ridgewood, dies January 22. He was predeceased by his wife Charlotte in 1995. He is survived by two daughters: Victoria Fallon of Ridgewood, and Jennifer Talbot of Oradell, NJ. One grandson: Matthew Sheehan of Oradell. A funeral service will be held 3 pm, 
 LAVELLE--John W.With broken hearts and profound sadness, the New York State Assembly mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Assembly Member John Lavelle. John's tough, hard-nosed approach to politics could not shadow the enormity of his heart. He served his beloved Staten Island co
 MANERI--K. Peter. A Memorial Mass will be held for Mr. Maneri at Holy Family Church in New Rochelle, N.Y. on Saturday, Jan. 27, at 11 a.m. Mr. Maneri died of cancer on Jan. 15 in Tulsa. Born in 1945, Keith Peter Maneri was raised on Staten Island and graduated from Xaverian High School in B
 MELLONI--Vincent R. We mourn the death of a beloved friend and law office associate who brought joy to work. He was a most astute and knowledgeable attorney, always friendly, dignified and above all, optimistic. To his dear wife Dot, his children and grandchildren, we share your loss. Our w
 OKORONKWO--Kanu, died peacefully, in the company of family members on Saturday, January 20, 2007, at New Hyde Park, NY. The first son of Ogwu Okoronkwo Chukueke and Ada Oji Ihudiya Okoronkwo, Kanu Okoronkwo was born in Uzuakoli, Abia State in Igboland, Nigeria. He grew up in Uzuakoli and at
 STAPLEY--Edward O. Dr., 79, of Metuchen, NJ, died on Tuesday, January 23, 2007 at JFK Hartwyck at Oak Tree in Edison. He was a Research Microbiologist at Merck & Co. in Rahway and Madrid, Spain, for 43 years retiring in 1992 as Executive Director of Microbiology. Surviving are his wife, the
 TAYLOR--Paul E., Jr., Riverdale Country School extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Paul E. Taylor Jr., a former trustee and chair of the board. He was a good friend to Riverdale. Jane Lisman Katz 65, Chair John R. Johnson, Headmaster       
 BERKOWITZ--H. David. The law firm of Snow Becker Krauss P.C. deeply mourns the loss of our beloved former colleague, David Berkowitz. David was an integral part of the firms success for many years. He possessed a keen mind, extraordinary character and a quiet and calm demeanor. These attrib
 BUCHBINDER--Norman. Our condolences go out to his family and friends. Norman gave so much to the Village. He will be sorely missed. Greenwich Village-Chelsea Chamber of Commerce       
 WEINTRAUB--Stanley on January 23rd, 2007. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Deborah, Daniel and Karen. Cherished grandfather of Joshua, Matthew, Max and Jeremey. Most devoted brother of Allan, the late Robert and the late Rosalie. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and love
 Carlos Lezama, who as president of the West Indian American Day Carnival Association transformed a Brooklyn block party into the city's largest parade, with millions of spectators lining two miles of Eastern Parkway each Labor Day to enjoy throbbing steel-pan bands, ostrich-plumed dancers a
 Dan Christensen, an abstract painter best known for his unfettered use of color in various styles, including Color Field painting and lyrical abstraction, died last Saturday in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 64. The cause was heart failure due to polymyositis, a muscle disease, said his 
 Donald E. Osterbrock, an astronomer and historian of science who studied the birth of stars and luminous clouds of gas at the core of galaxies outside the Milky Way and wrote an influential textbook about the subject, died on Jan. 11 in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 82. The cause was a 
 Dr. Lyman C. Wynne, a psychiatrist and psychologist whose research helped lay the foundation for family-based therapies for mental disorders, died on Jan. 17 in Bethesda, Md. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his daughter Christine Wynne said. Dr. Wynne's studies of families 
 ABBOTT--Michael, beloved brother of Helene Fields and great-grand Uncle Mike to all his nieces, nephews, their friends and all who loved him. A longtime television, film, and theatre producer who produced the first New York production of STALAG 17 he left sparking life to an upcoming new pr
 ADAM--Alexander. 1/11/84-1/25/07. It has been a year, Alex, since you lost your battle with Ewings Sarcoma. Every day we remember the calm grace and deep courage with which you faced the awful pain of disease and your inevitable death. We miss you and all the complexities and contradictions
 BARNETT--Joseph W. Jr., ''Bear'' died peacefully on January 20th, 2008 at the age of 70. He was a graduate of Rye Country Day School, The Hotchkiss School, Yale University and University of Virginia Law School. He also attended Columbia University Graduate School. Bear served honorably as a
 BIBLOWITZ--Joshua (Jesse). An extraordinarily good man. Devoted husband to Bunny. Loving father and father-inlaw to Ellen (Richard), Kenny (Michele), Joule (Stuart), Lewis (Jennifer). Adoring grandfather to Eli, Will, Ruby, Mac, Sam, Jonah, Nathan, and Jack. Admired and respected by family,
 BRINKMAN--Richard Gene, age 80, died in Vero Beach, FL, on January 22. A 1951 graduate of Indiana University, Dick retired in 1989 as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Texaco. He was the first person at the company to hold that position and ''worked financial wizardry
 BRISTOL--Herman G., 75 years young, died suddenly on January 20. He is survived by his wife, Gloria, his daughters, Elyce and Cara, four grandchildren and two stepsons. Pioneer African American salesman at IBM, lifelong horseman and lover of music, Herman was grateful every day for his life
 COYLE--Daniel Edward. We mourn the loss of our beloved father who died the morning of January 19, 2008 after a long illness. He lived 88 wonderful years. Beloved husband of the late Eileen Jane (Tuohy) Coyle. Beloved father of Dr. Patricia K Coyle, Daniel E Coyle II, Claudia Coyle, Mary Jan
 EAGLETON--George D. George D. Eagleton of Santa Barbara, CA, passed on peacefully after a brief illness Saturday, January 12, 2008. Born in Peoria, IL, to Lee O. Eagleton and Virginia Mackemer Eagleton, he graduated from Northwestern University in 1955 and served in the U.S. Naval Reserve, 
 EWALD--William F. 82, whose distinguished journalistic career spanned nearly four decades, including influential positions at five national magazines, among them ''Time'', ''Newsweek'' and ''People'', died December 20 in La Jolla, California. A gifted editor and devoted father, his interest
 GREENWALD--Howard S on January 26, 2007. Greatly beloved husband, father, fatherin-law, son-in-law, grandfather, brother, brother-in-law, sisters-in-law, uncle and his many friends. We will miss you forever. We love you. Services Sunday, January 28, 11:30 am at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel
 HARRIS--Percival, 84, of Philadelphia, PA, former architect employed by NYC, on Thursday, January 25, 2007. He is survived by his sister, Ann B. Harris, brother, Lawrence C. Harris, several cousins, and his caregiver and friend, Peter Cervenka. Friends may call, Monday, from 6-8pm at the Pa
 KATZ--Michael. Died January 17, 2008. He is survived by his wife Barbara, his parents Jerome and Lillian and his twin brother Jay. His passing will be mourned by his family, relatives, and friends who loved him for his endearing ways, his wonderful sense of humor, his generous and positive 
 KLEIN--John A., President and Chief Executive Officer of People's United Bank and its parent, People's United Financial, Inc. passed away January 25 at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 58 years old. John leaves his wife and high school sweetheart, Carla, to whom he was married for 37 years, 
 KLINGENSTEIN--Richard Sheridan, (''Klingy'' to his many friends), age 61, died peacefully at home on Saturday January 19, 2008 after a short illness. Devoted father of Christopher (Nikki), former husband of Ann Holmes, loving brother of Jean and Bill (Fran), fond uncle of Stacy and John, ch
 KOSSAR--Joseph, of Riverdale, NY at the age of 93. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Devoted father of Stephen (Anita) Kossar. Dear brother of Alice Weinberg. Loving grandfather of Robert (Missy) Kossar and Leslie (Marc) Schraer. Cherished great-grandfather of Dylan, Carson, Cali and the la
 KOTLIK--Emil J., 79, died January 23, 2008. Survived by cousins, Mary Ann and John Kral, Lois and Kristi Kral and untold relatives in the Czech Republic. A graduate of Stuyvesant High School, class of 1946 and the Baruch School at CCNY, Class of 1950, he spent his working career at Amax, Am
 LAZARUS, Jerome (Jerry). The members, Board of Governors and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Constance, and his family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 LEONIDAS--John C., M.D., died on January 24, 2008 after struggling with Parkinson's Disease and myelodysplastic syndrome. Born in Athens in 1930, Dr. Leonidas left Greece in 1960 to train in pediatric radiology at Babies Hospital, Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was later Professor
 MARSHALL--Alton G., beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend, died January 24, 2008 peacefully in his home. He was 86 years old. Family will be receiving friends on Thursday, January 31st from 4pm to 8pm at 136 East 79th Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Alton 
 MILLER--Judge Herbert J. of Hallandale Beach, FL and New York on January 25. Survived by his wife Carolyn Foris Miller. Judge Millers long career in public service included serving as an ADA, member of the New York State Legislature, civil court and acting Justice of the New York Supreme Co
 PINCUS--Morris (Murray), passed away January 24, 2008 at the L.I. Veterans' Home, where his gentle, friendly manor continued to endear him to all. Dr. Pincus was a beloved and respected educator and mentor. His illustrious career included 24 years as principal of Public School 194 in Brookl
 RICHARDSON--John Martin, 96, died January 12, in Kennett Square, PA. He will be greatly missed for his wit, intelligence, integrity and winning ways. Dartmouth College, 1932. Harvard Law School, 1935. Retired, 1974 from Cahill, Gordon & Reindel after 38 years of corporate law practice.     
 ROSSI--Douglas A., 1953-2008, ended his battle with cancer after 5 years on Tuesday, January 22. A scuba diver, sailor, hiker, kayaker, traveler, builder and writer, Doug lived every one of his 54 years to the fullest. He will be remembered for his wit, his unique perspective on life and as
 SCHWARTZ--DR. Herman A. ''The Remarkable Herman Arthur Schwartz''. Dr., of Mill Valley, California died peacefully on January 12th, 2008, after a long struggle with Alzheimer's. He is survived by his wife, the artist Leah Schwartz, sister Helen Fellenbaum, sons David and Peter, daughters-in
 SEGAL--Clement. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Clement Segal. His wisdom, counsel, and unwavering friendship over six decades are forever remembered. His vision and accomplishments serve as a guide to all those who follow. Our hearts go out to the entire Segal fami
 SHERWOOD--Dr. Louis, January 25, 2007 of Ambler, PA and Delray Beach, FL. Husband of Judy (nee Brimberg). Father of Arieh D. Sherwood and Dr. Jennifer Hirshman. Father in law of Dr. Michal Elovitz and Dr. Philip Hirshman. Son of Blanche and the late Arthur Sherwood. Brother of Stanley Sherw
 SILBERMAN--Dr. Elliot J., 75, passed away on January 24 after more than 4 years of the most courageous and valiant battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved husband of 40 years to Dr. Rosanne K., devoted dad to Michelle and Dr. Clark Hubbard and Dr. Marc and Amy Silberman. Adored grandpa to Re
 SILVERMAN--Jerome. It is with deep regret that DOROT announces the passing of Jerome Silverman, beloved father of our esteemed and cherished Board Co-President, Phil Silverman. Phil's devotion to his father, especially during his last years, exemplifies the highest values to which DOROT asp
 SOLOMON--Anthony M. The staff of the Harvard University Art Museums mourn the loss of esteemed donor and Collections Committee member, Anthony M. Solomon. In addition to his long career as economist, statesman, diplomat, and international banker and industrialist, we celebrate his legacy as
 STERN--George, age 91, died on January 23, 2008, 15 days after the death of Mollie, his beloved wife of 67 years. He enjoyed a 50 year career as a metallurgist and engineer. His family, the clarinet, tennis and the Mamaroneck community nourished his profound humanity. Survived by children S
 STEWART--Charles T. The YMCA of Greater New York mourns the loss of Charles T. Stewart, a lifelong volunteer, advocate and friend. Chuck was a gentleman of generous commitment and wise counsel, with over four decades as a volunteer, including as our Chairman of the Board 198286. The thought
 STRAUS--John Anthony, 82, died Friday, January 18, 2008. He will be remembered with love and affection by his wife Mary Henderson Straus of New York City and his daughter Anne Asbury Borden of Clinton, CT. As per his wishes there will be no services.       
 VARNER--Van. Everyone whose life was ever touched by Van will be saddened by his death. Van died in San Francisco on January 24th following a severe stroke. A memorial service is planned for April in Manhattan.       
 ZION--Rabbi Joel Y. Temple Israel of Lawrence mourns the passing of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus, Dr. Joel Y. Zion. A great man who dedicated his life to our congregation, the Jewish people, and human kind. To his beloved wife Harriett, his children, grandchildren and family, our heartfelt co
 ZWEIG--Sol, was born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1916, and met Harriet, his beloved wife of 59 years at a USO dance during World War II. Sol served as a captain in Panama after attending City College in New York in the 1930s. He was most fond of the Shelter Rock Tennis Club in Long Island, NY, befo
 WEINTRAUB--Stanley on January 23rd, 2007. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Deborah, Daniel and Karen. Cherished grandfather of Joshua, Matthew, Max and Jeremey. Most devoted brother of Allan, the late Robert and the late Rosalie. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and love
 Dale E. Noyd, who as a decorated Air Force captain and fighter pilot attracted worldwide attention in the 1960s as a conscientious objector who objected to only one war, the one in Vietnam, died Jan. 11 in Seattle. He was 73. The cause was complications of emphysema, his son, Erik, 
 ADAM--Alexander Jay, age 23, adored son of Winky and Laszlo and beloved older brother of Nick and Dash, died peacefully at home in New York City on January 25, 2007, after a two year battle with Ewings Sarcoma. Alex faced his long, painful illness with the same qualities with which he lived
 BARNARD--Allan, who was born in Madison, Wisconsin on August 8th, 1918, died on Monday, January 22nd, of complications from Parkinson's disease in Forest Hills, New York. Allan was married to his beloved wife Polly Barnard for 56 years. He was the father of Laurel Barnard Wexman and the lat
 CROSS--George R., died peacefully on January 17, 2007, in Punta Gorda, FL, at the age of 83. He was born in New York City May 9, 1923. He was a First Lieutenant in the US Airforce during WWII. He was an attorney and held various senior executive positions in the insurance industry. He was a
 DORAN--Richard A. The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the loss of Richard A. Doran, longtime supporter and member of its Board of Trustees who served as chairman from June 2003 to June 2006. In his long association with the Institute, its students were uppermost among his concerns. He cult
 GREENWALD--Howard S on January 26, 2007. Greatly beloved husband, father, fatherin-law, son-in-law, grandfather, brother, brother-in-law, sisters-in-law, uncle and his many friends. We will miss you forever. We love you. Services Sunday, January 28, 11:30 am at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel
 KATZ--Leonard J. 74, died on January 23, 2007 in New York. A loving husband of the late Joan Katz and a loving father, grandfather and friend. He will be sorely missed in both New York and Florida. Survived by his son Andrew and daughter Jill who loved him very much and will miss him more t
 KLASS--Stephen I., age 67, of New York, formerly of Boston, MA, on Thursday, January 18, 2007. Loving son of the late David and Ruth (Eisenberg) Klass. A graduate of Boston Latin School, Harvard College and Yale University, Mr. Klass was a retired Professor of English Literature at Adelphi 
 KLEIN--William (Bill) Joseph, age 89, on January 23rd. Husband of Joan Lynton, proud father of Kate and Peter, stepfather of Vicki and Jon, ''Willie'' to seven devoted grandchildren. Graduate Yale 1939, served as Lt. Commander, U.S. Navy, WWII in the Pacific Theater and Korea. Bill had a ta
 LAD--John F. An active NYC violist, taijiquan practitioner and teacher, and lecturer in philosophy at Barnard College for 25 years, John died suddenly on 23 January, 2007, while at bagua practice. John had practiced taijiquan since 1975 in the tradition of Professor Cheng Man-ching, and tau
 McCARTHY--Thomas H., III, DSA -Kane Lodge No. 454 F. & A. M. mourns with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed brother on January 20. He was a member of the Lodge for 26 years and recipient of the Dedicated Service Award in 1996. He served on the Relief Committee for a number of years an
 MILLER--Judge Herbert J. of Hallandale Beach, FL and New York on January 25. Survived by his wife Carolyn Foris Miller. Judge Millers long career in public service included serving as an ADA, member of the New York State Legislature, civil court and acting Justice of the New York Supreme Co
 MORRISON--Irving. 74 years. Adoring husband to Shirlee. Extraordinary, loving father and friend to Steve and Diane, Larry and his companion Carol. He fought a long and courageous battle with cancer. His memory will be forever cherished. Donations may be sent to Calvary Fund, Inc., 1740 East
 RUBIN--Leonard. Our cherished friend, mentor and leader, what a difference your life has made to the community, the world and to our class of 25! We treasure the many memories we share with wife and true partner Syril, adoring children, loving family, and a multitude of admiring and appreci
 SAWYER--Joshua, 28, passed away Tuesday January 23, in New York City. He fought a courageous battle with cancer for the past year. Born in Miami he attended NMB and University of Florida, Gainesville. After graduation he moved to New York and worked at Axiom. In 2005 Josh and a few friends 
 SCHACHTEL--Dr. Maurice. Died on January 25, 2007, in Rancho Mirage, CA. Born May 24, 1913, in London, England, the family emigrated to the US aboard the ill-fated Lusitania. The family settled in Buffalo, where he spent his childhood. An exceptional student, he attended medical school at Jo
 SCHWARTZ--David, C.L.U., 85, Sergeant in WWII. Beloved husband of Rita Mintz, and the late Sally Freund, brother of Florence and Joseph, loving father of Vicki (Al), Lenard (Efrat), stepfather to Sara Shaw and Jordan Mintz, grandfather of 11. He made us laugh.       
 SHERWOOD--Louis M., M.D., the first chairman of the Unified Department of Medicine of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center, died on January 25, 2007 at age 69. Lou graduated from Johns Hopkins University and from Columbia University's College of Physicians a
 TRICAMO--John, 80, native of Brooklyn and professor of history at San Francisco State University, died January 12. He will be missed by his wife, Joan, and their children Regina, John and David. Service will be held at St. Theresa's Church in San Francisco, CA, on February 10. In his memory
 VARVARO--Willaim A., Msgr. The family of Msgr. William A. Varvaro announces the death of the pastor of St. Margaret's Church, 66-05 79th Pl., Middle Village, on January 25 after a brief illness. Reposing in St. Margaret's Parish Hall Sunday January 28 from 12 to 5 and 7 to 9 pm and Monday, 
 WEINBERG--Samuel M.D. The faculty, alumni, residents and staff of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology of New York University School of Medicine record with profound sadness the passing of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Dr. Samuel Weinberg, an internationally recognized pio
 Gump Worsley, the pudgy but agile Hall of Fame goaltender who spent a decade with the Rangers, played on four Stanley Cup championship teams with the Montreal Canadiens and was among the last goalies to play without a mask, died Saturday in Beloeil, Quebec. He was 77. Worsley's deat
 EDWARDS--Esmond died January 20, born October 29, 1927. He was a jazz producer at Prestige, headed the Verve label for MGM in 1967, and was Vice President of A&R for Chess Records in 1970, one of the first African-American recording executives. He is survived by his wife, Yvonne; son, step-
 LAVELLE--John. The City University of New York mourns the untimely passing of Assembly member John Lavelle of Staten Island. He was a tireless advocate for education and higher education, and a staunch friend of the College of Staten Island and CUNY. His booming voice and generous support w
 LEE--Mabel. The colleagues of John Lee express their profoundest regrets on the loss of his wife, Mabel. John and his daughter Michelle have lost a loving wife and devoted mother. Our prayers and warmest wishes of support go out to them. Dembitzer & Dembitzer LLP.       
 LIEBERMAN--Fred, died at the Maine Medical Center on the morning of January 27, 2007. He will be remembered for his unwavering love and commitment to his two children. He was their best friend, their coach, and beloved father. He is survived by his mother Helen. Services Tuesday, 12pm, at '
 PALEY--George E. M.D., on January 27th, 2007. Beloved father of James Paley and Janet Sapir; Father-in-law of Donald Sapir and Sharon Paley; devoted Grandfather of Jeremy and Erica Paley and Jesse Sapir; and Matthew and Sonya Sapir; adoring great-grandfather of Colden Sapir. Predeceased by 
 RUBIN--Leonard. Our cherished friend, mentor and leader, what a difference your life has made to the community, the world and to our class of 25! We treasure the many memories we share with wife and true partner Syril, adoring children, loving family, and a multitude of admiring and appreci
 SCHACHTEL--Dr. Maurice. Died on January 25, 2007, in Rancho Mirage, CA. Born May 24, 1913, in London, England, the family emigrated to the US aboard the ill-fated Lusitania. The family settled in Buffalo, where he spent his childhood. An exceptional student, he attended medical school at Jo
 STEIN--Herbert, of Yonkers at 87 years. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Cy (Myra) and Jill, loving grandfather of Allison and Lauren, Rebecca and Andrew. He was remarkable in every way.       
 TRICAMO--John, 80, native of Brooklyn and professor of history at San Francisco State University, died January 12. He will be missed by his wife, Joan, and their children Regina, John and David. Service will be held at St. Theresa's Church in San Francisco, CA, on February 10. In his memory
 MARBLESTONE--Robert Andrew, Ph.D., died on January 26, 2007. He was the beloved and cherished son of Shirley Marblestone and the late Mortimer Marblestone. He is survived by his loving brother Howard, two nieces, five great-nieces and nephews, and a son, Adam. He was a practicing clinical p
 Art Fowler, who became George Steinbrenner's sixth, ninth, 17th and 26th Yankees pitching coach in a turbulent baseball pairing with his often hired and fired manager and drinking buddy Billy Martin, died yesterday in Spartanburg, S.C. He was 84. Fowler's death was announced by his 
 Glen Tetley, an American choreographer long popular in Europe whose pioneering fusion of ballet and modern dance challenged taboos and rattled purists but influenced major companies worldwide, died on Friday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80 and also had homes in New York and Rome.        
 ADAM--Alexander Jay, age 23, adored son of Winky and Laszlo and beloved older brother of Nick and Dash, died peacefully at home in New York City on January 25, 2007, after a two year battle with Ewings Sarcoma. Alex faced his long, painful illness with the same qualities with which he lived
 BRAYER--Rabbi Menachem M., Ph.D. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing, in Israel, of our distinguished professor emeritus of the Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education and Administration, who had taught hundreds of undergraduate and graduate students in the fi
 DRINAN--Reverend Robert. Human Rights First mourns the Passing of Rev. Robert Drinan, a former member of our Board of Directors, who combined a passionate commitment to human rights with a determination to speak truth to power. His was a voice of conscience on issues ranging from the plight
 EDWARDS--Alfred L. Age 86, of Ann Arbor died January 26, 2007. Funeral Services held Friday, February 2, 2007. In 1963 he was appointed by President Kennedy to become the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Agriculture. He was the first African American to hold that high a position in the agricul
 FREED--Robert Dalton, 78, of Forest, VA, died December 28, 2006. He was born March 15, 1928, in New York, NY, a son of the late Joseph David Roth Freed and Gertrude Sullivan Freed. Bob graduated from George Washington High School and New England College. He worked for Freed Radio, Mechanix 
 GOURARY--Paul, August 25, 1919 -January 29, 2007, son of Jules and Regina Gourary, survived by his wife of 50 years, Marianne Gourary, as well as his stepdaughter, Corinne Frugoni of Arcata, CA, his son, John, and daughterin-law, Jennifer, of NY, NY, and two grandchildren, Justin and Julia.
 HALPERT--David, 1963-2007. Formerly of NYC, Boston, MA and Rutland, VT. Beloved son and brother, his family and friends greatly miss him. A memorial service will be held at the Levine Chapels, 470 Harvard Street, Brookline, MA, on Sunday, February 4 at 2:00 pm. In lieu of flowers, remembran
 MORRIS--Aaron. Passed away on January 29th, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Norma for 57 years. Loving father of Hal and his wife Lorie and the late Robert. Devoted grandfather of Rebeca. Brother of Paul and the late Simon. Aaron served as a Major in the US Army during WWII. Aaron 
 PRISTIN--Seymour, died January 29, three weeks short of his 96th birthday. Husband of 61 years of Tamara, father of Terry, father-in-law of Ronald Silverman and uncle of Sy Buvitt, Lorna Michaelson and Ronald Pristin. Elegant and athletic, he loved a good political debate. Services Thursday
 RUBIN--Leonard. The Board of Directors of the Franklin Managed Trust and the Franklin Value Investors Trust wish to mark the passing of our beloved and long-time fellow director, Leonard Rubin, and to extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife, Syril, his children, grandchildren and 
 STUART--Walker, died January 27, 2007, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Walker was an academy award nominated producer of such films as ''Never Cry Wolf'', ''Short Eyes'', and ''1918''. He is survived by daughter Diana and her partner Ted Rabinowitch, of Fort Bragg, California, son David of Bro
 VASATA--Joseph, of Glen Cove, NY, age 82. Predeceased by his cherished wife Marta, survived by their loving daughter Suzanne. Services private, interment Pohori, Czech Republic.       
 The Rev. Robert F. Drinan, the first Roman Catholic priest to become a voting member of Congress, and the first congressman to call for the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 86. The cause was pneumonia and congestive heart failure, said 
 Bing Devine, who transformed the St. Louis Cardinals and the Mets into World Series champions in the 1960s in a career spanning seven decades as a baseball executive, died Saturday in St. Louis. He was 90. His death was announced by the Cardinals. Devine played only a few ga
 Carter Harman, a composer, music critic, author and record producer, died on Jan. 23 in Stowe, Vt. He was 88 and lived in Waterbury, Vt. His death was announced by his daughter, Lisa Diomande. Mr. Harman's breadth of interests led him to write profiles of jazz greats like Du
 ADAM--Alexander. The Barnard College Toddler Center for Toddler Development expresses it's deepest sadness at the death of Alexander Adam, and extends our heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. $(6$)ADAM--Alexander Jay, age 23, adored son of Winky and Laszlo and beloved older brother of N
 AUGUSTINE--Kermit. The Board of Directors, participants, staff, and friends of AHRC NYC sadly express their sorrow at the passing of Mr. Kermit Augustine, who for 16 years served on the Board of Directors of the Association. In addition, Mr. Augustine served as the Chairperson of our Brookl
 GOURARY--Paul. The members of the Council of the Grolier Club are deeply saddened by the loss of Paul Gourary, a member since 1953, councilor from 1966 to 1981, and an Honorary Member of the Grolier Club since 2001. We will sorely miss the friendship, guidance and sage advice of this extrao
 MOYNIHAN--Jeremiah A. On January 27, 2007, native of Raheen East, Rathmore Cnty, Kerry, Ireland. Retired New York Times Paperhandler Foreman. Beloved husband of Maureen (nee Joyce). Devoted father of Brian and his wife Natasha and Kathleen Regan and her husband Barry. Cherished brother of K
 NOTIAS--Harry N. Beloved husband of Phyllis Thravalos, cherished father of daughter, Irene and son, Nicholas on January 28, 2007 at New York Presbyterian Hospital from complications after a stroke. He is also survived by a loving sister, many nieces and nephews, devoted friends and loyal em
 ORANGE--Michael M.D. died peacefully on January 28th at St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, FL. He is survived by his loving wife, Ruth, devoted daughters, Jan Orange and Jeri Cohen, his sons'-in-law, Ira Podlofsky and Sanford Cohen, his adoring grandchildren, Zachary and Alexandra Cohe
 PANZER--Irving J. of Bronxville, NY, died on January 30, 2007. He was 83 years old. Beloved husband of Edith B. Panzer. Dear father of Jonathan J. (Megan), David A. (Pam) and William G. (Tina). Loving grandfather of Tara, Adam, Daniel, Alexis, Nicholas and Taylor. Irving was awarded a Life 
 RUBIN--Leonard. The Board of Directors of the Franklin Managed Trust and the Franklin Value Investors Trust wish to mark the passing of our beloved and long-time fellow director, Leonard Rubin, and to extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife, Syril, his children, grandchildren and 
 SIMMONDS--William Lee, 72, died January 28, 2007. He is survived by his long time friend and caregiver, Robert Lee Holland. Honoring Mr. Simmond's request, there will be no services. Remembrances may be made to Loaves & Fishes, Hartford, CT 06105.       
 RUBINSTEIN--Bernard, suddenly and peacefully on January 27, 2007. Loving husband of Ina, loving father of Gina Parkinson (Ron) and Steve (Karen). Cherished grandfather (Poppa) of Dylan and Jackson. He served as a role model to all of us and will be sorely missed.       
 TANNENBAUM--Walter. Surprise Lake Camp mourns the loss of Walter Tannenbaum. He was a member of our Board of Directors for over thirty years and was active on many committees. Walter treasured the children we serve, and he loved our site. He planted gardens at camp, and he and his family bu
 Bernie Friedkin, a native of Brownsville, Brooklyn, who was known as Schoolboy and who as a professional boxer in the late 1930s and early '40s battled many of his opponents to a draw -- including three former lightweight champions -- died Jan. 18 in Brooklyn. He was 89. He died of 
