 Elliott Merrick, a writer, editor, teacher, farmer and sailor who distilled his experiences into acclaimed, enduring books about Labrador and northern Vermont, died on April 22 at his home in Asheville, N.C.. He was 91. His ''Northern Nurse'' (1942) told the epic tale of Kate Austen
 John Beal, an actor whose long career embraced film, theater and television, died on Saturday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Beal's early starring roles in films included ''Another Language'' with Helen Hayes and ''The Little Minister'' with Katharine Hepburn. He also appeared
 Lord Taylor of Gosforth, a former Lord Chief Justice of England who was a critic of the British criminal justice system, died on Monday at his home in Guildford, near London. He was 66. He had cancer, British newspapers reported. As Lord Chief Justice from 1992 until he reti
 Makoto Namba, a world-class match racer and an America's Cup skipper who became the first Japanese sailor to break into the top 10 in the world ranking, fell overboard during an ocean race on April 23 and is presumed lost at sea off Japan. He was 46. The Japanese Coast Guard conduct
 DEITCH-Morton. He was a man devoted to his profession and colleagues, unfailingly generous to his family and who knew above all the urgency of friendship. We shall sorely and unceasingly miss him. Mary and Morton Bogdonoff       
 DIBBELL-Charles W. Attorney, April 30, at his Greenwich Village home, at 89. His poems of everyday life gave joy to his family, neighbors and Yale '28 classmates. He will be remembered with special affection by his four children, their families and his wife of 65 years, Helen Hope Dibbell. 
 GANNES-Maurice, formerly of the Bronx. Residing at Fair Harbor, Fire Island and High Falls, NY. Passed away Wednesday, April 30, leaving his wife Gerrie, children Warren and Robin and grandson Seth. Maurice was a former member of Columbus Lodge #       
 GOLDMAN-S. Howard. The Brodsky Organization mourns the loss of a beloved friend and partner, Howard Goldman, and sends condolences to his wife, Dorothy, sons Jim Goldman and Jeff Goldman, and the rest of his family.       
 GRAINE-Michael S. May 3, 1930April 29, 1997. Son of the late Dr. Al and Rosalind Graine. Burial at Washington Cemetery on Friday, May 2, at 3 P.M. Leaves a family he loved.       
 MARKS-Joseph, on April 26 at his home in Kalamazoo, MI. Joe was born June 18, 1922 in NY, NY, the son of Nathan and Lillian (Duklauer) Marks. He was a pilot in the 308th Bomb Group, 425th Squad in W.W. II. A graduate of CCNY he went on to spend 40 years in corporate finance before retiring 
 ROMER-Murray M., cherished husband, beloved father and adored grandfather died at the age of seventy on April 27, 1997, at Stamford Hospital. He had coronary artery disease. He held a Bachelor's Degree in Aeronautical Engineering and a Master's Degree in Industrial Engineeringboth from New 
 SPRUNG-Jerome S. Suddenly and tragically on April 27. Beloved and cherished husband of Shirley, devoted father of Sara and Daniel, dear brother of Ileen Rogers, adoring grandfather of Juliet. Service 1 PM Sunday, Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 West 68 St. Interment private. Contributions t
 STEIN-Melvin. Beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Stuart M. and Roger H. Adored father-inlaw of Roni. Loving brother of Toby Rozen. Cherished grandfather of Jason W. and Alissa A. Stein. Service 10 A.M. Friday, at Lincoln Park Jewish Center, South Central Avenue, Yonkers. Contribut
 ACHSEN-Dave. 5/1/11-8/2-72. A loving family remembrance on the 86th anniversary of his birth. Pearl, Norma, Bonnie, Andy       
 Peter Tali Coleman, a native of American Samoa who was its first popularly elected Governor, from 1978 to 1985, died on Monday in Honolulu. He was 77 and a longtime resident of Pago Pago, the capital of American Samoa. He had liver cancer, Agence France-Presse reported. Mr. 
 Bo Widerberg, the lyrical, socially conscious Swedish director of the popular ''Elvira Madigan'' and three films nominated for Academy Awards, died on Thursday at a hospital in Angelholm in southern Sweden. He was 66. The Swedish news agency TT said he died after an unspecified but 
 Howard E. Simmons Jr., the former head of research and development at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, died on April 26 at his home in Greenville, Del. He was 67. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his wife, Elizabeth, said. Mr. Simmons joined Du Pont as a r
 John P. Snyder, a chemical engineer who made cartography history by developing a set of mathematical equations to convert images of the Earth taken from space into accurate maps, died on Monday in Olney, Md. He was 71. Although never formally trained in map projections -- the mathem
 DELCAU-Joseph G., co-founder & former President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Del Electronics Corporation, now Del Global Technologies, of Valhalla, NY and former resident of Mount Vernon and Eastchester died on April 30, 1997, at the Hallandale Rehabilitation Center in Hallanda
 GRUPPO-Bruno, 75, of Cos Cob, CT. On Wednesday, April 30, 1997 at Greenwich Hospital. Beloved husband of Ellen, father of Claire Gruppo, Paul, James, David, Stephen Gruppo and Ellen Gruppo Loomis. Also survived by 11 grandchildren and several nieces and nephews. A Memorial Mass will be held
 McCARTHY-Thomas Raynolds, 76, died at his home in Manhasset, New York, on Thursday, May 1, 1997. Former Executive Vice President of Austin Nichols & Company, Inc., and the third generation of his family to become an officer of the company. Proud producer of Wild Turkey Bourbon, he establish
 NIHDA-Frederick. Beloved brother of James Nihda and sister Elizabeth Tokarsky. Memorial service to be held in Toronto, Canada. Any and all donations can be made in his memory to the Cabrini Hospice, 227 East 19th Street, New York, New York 10003.       
 PAGE-Donald Ormsby, 69, died April 27th, suddenly but peacefully at home. The son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Donald Ormsby Page of New York City and Far Hills, New Jersey. Loving brother of Shirley P. Schneirla of Stanton, New Jersey, and beloved uncle to Dorothy S. Hover, Peter C. Schneirla,
 Quentin C. Crommelin, a retired Navy captain who was the last of five Alabama brothers who created a sibling sensation as Navy aviators in World War II, died on Monday at a hospital in Montgomery, Ala. He was 78 and lived on the family plantation outside Wetumpka. The cause was canc
 Allan Francovich, an award-winning documentary film maker, died on April 17 in Houston. He was 56. He died after a heart attack at an  airport. Mr. Francovich was best known as the director of the 1980 film ''On Company Business: A Documentary History of the Central Intellig
 Blaine Littell, an author, former television news correspondent and retired journalism professor, died on Tuesday at the Pendleton nursing home in Mystic, Conn. He was 71 and lived in nearby Stonington. The cause was emphysema, his family said. Mr. Littell reported and produ
 Lew Dietz, who celebrated his native Maine in some 20 books and hundreds of magazine articles, died on April 26 at a hospital in Rockport, Me. He was 90. Mr. Dietz was best known as the author, with Harry Goodridge, of ''A Seal Called Andre,'' the story of an orphaned baby seal that
 BREUER-Samson, a very special person and uncle. Together with his beloved late wife, Tante Myra, Of Blessed Memory, we shared many good times and Yom Tovim. I'll really miss him. Very sincere condolences to daughters Janie Rosenfeld and Judy Lorch and the whole family. Peter Schwalbe       
 GREEN-Joseph. On May 1 after a courageous battle with cancer. The family, friends and colleagues of this brilliant man mourn his loss. A memorial service will be held at Ethical Humanist Society, Garden City, on May 22 at 7P.M.       
 GREENBERG-Bernard, MD. Beloved husband of Bernice. Devoted father of Dr. Steven Greenberg and Dr. Judith Greenberg. Cherished grandfather of Matthew Berman. Service Sunday May 4, 12:30PM, at The Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. GREENBERG-Bernard, MD. Congregation Emanu-e
 McCARTHY-Thomas Raynolds, 76, died at his home in Manhasset, New York, on Thursday, May 1, 1997. Former Executive Vice President of Austin Nichols & Company, Inc., and the third generation of his family to become an officer of the company. Proud producer of Wild Turkey Bourbon, he establish
 STEIN-Mel. The Westchester Jewish Center records with great sorrow the passing of Mel Stein, the brother of our late past President, Allen A. Stein. Our condolences are offered to our members Elaine Stein Roberts and Bernie Roberts, to Sharon, Margot, Eric and Loren Stein, to Aryeh, Sammy, 
 Paul Khan, a consultant on food safety and regulatory compliance, died on April 21 at Sound Shore Hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. A New Rochelle resident, he was 73. A colleague, Robert L. Morris, said Mr. Khan was thought to have died of a heart attack. At his death, Mr. Kha
 Robert Lyons Danly, a translator from the Japanese and an editor and teacher, died on Sunday at his parents' home in Burr Ridge, Ill. A resident of Ann Arbor, Mich., he was 50. The cause was a brain tumor, according to a spokesman for the University of Michigan. He had been on leave
 Russell G. Cleary, who built the G. Heileman Brewing Company into one of the largest breweries in the country, died on Thursday in the Gundersen Lutheran Medical Center in La Crosse, Wis., of complications from heart surgery. He was 63. Mr. Cleary, who was chairman of the Wisconsin 
 S. Howard Goldman, a New York real estate developer and a private collector of American autographs, documents and manuscripts, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 67 and lived in New York City and New Canaan, Conn. The cause was cancer, the hospital said.   
 Sir John Carew Eccles, an Australian neurophysiologist whose research illuminated some of the most mysterious yet most basic functions of human nerve cells and won him a share of a Nobel Prize, died on Friday at his home in Switzerland. He was 94 and for the last 22 years had lived in retir
 Leslie George Katz, the founder of Eakins Press and a writer on art and literature, died on April 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said Jane Mayhall Katz, his wife. Mr. Katz's long and varied career included writing and directing experimentalist 
 Narciso Yepes, a Spanish guitarist who expanded his instrument from its normal 6-string configuration to a setup using 10 strings and who made dozens of recordings of a repertory that ran from Renaissance to contemporary works, died yesterday in Murcia, Spain. The Spanish news agency EFE sa
 ALFANO-Michael A. On April 30th in Massachusetts. Husband of the late Lorraine (Shields). Beloved friend of Nellie Furtado. Father of Michael of Long Island and Joanie Alfano. Brother of Anthony Polcari. Army Veteran of World War II. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Italian Ch
 BANNER-Sy. Four Winds mourns the loss of Sy Banner, a superb hospital administrator, outstanding corporate Vice President and warm, caring personal friend to all of us. Sy stood for the best in health care. We offer our profound sympathies to his wife Dorothy, their children and the family.
 FEUER-Arthur, on May 2nd, 1997. Beloved son of the late Mollie and Harry Feuer. Graveside services on Sunday, 11 A.M., at Wellwood Cemetery, Pinelawn, New York. FEUER-Arthur. The officers, members and staff of The American Jewish Committee note with sadness the death of Arthur Feuer
 GLASS-Henry. The Officers and Employees of Arma Container Corp. note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and partner. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Board of Trustees and Employees Arma Container Corp. Jack Hausman Bruce Margolis Howard Gottfried Howard Glas
 GREEN-Joseph. On May 1 after a courageous battle with cancer. The family, friends and colleagues of this brilliant man mourn his loss. A memorial service will be held at Ethical Humanist Society, Garden City, on May 22 at 7P.M.       
 GREENBERG-Bernard, M.D. Beloved husband of Bernice. Devoted father of Steven Greenberg, Ph.D. and Judith Greenberg, M.D., and son-in-law, Eugene Berman. Cherished grandfather of Matthew Berman. Service Sunday, 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flow
 HOFSTADTER-Newton. Formerly of Forest Hills and Florida. Residing in Ventura, California. We mourn the sudden loss of a lifelong, beloved friend who knew the urgency of friendship. He will be remembered as sportsman and a man who gave of himself. We shall sorely miss him with a memory endur
 ISAACS-Lewis M., Jr. Died April 26, 1997, 89 years old. Leaves loved daughter, Carol. His loving soul is more immortal than the stars and this will shine in our hearts forever. Donations can be made in his name to Stanley M. Isaacs, Neighborhood Houses, 415 East 93rd Street, NYC 10128      
 LUTZ-William Charles. December 12, 1911-April 14, 1997. Bill Lutz was born in Brooklyn, NY. He met ''the light of my life,'' Natalie Trentowski, at the end of a fencing foil in 1937. They were married in 1940 and had three daughters: Winifred, Barbara, and Beverly. In 1945/46, he served as 
 PORTER-Keith R., Ph.D., of Beaumont at Bryn Mawr, PA and formerly of Boulder, CO, died on Friday, May 2, 1997. Husband of the late Elizabeth L. Porter. He is survived by a nephew, Keith M. Pineo, and a niece, Mary Holman. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Contributions may be
 SAPERSTEIN-Allen Lee. Originally from Detroit. On Friday, April 25. Died at home in Brooklyn. Beloved father of Linnee and Michah. Ex-husband and lifelong friend of Barbara Henning. Brother of Herbert and his wife Audrey. Dear friend of Michael Kanter. Former owner of Copy Cat on 7th Ave. B
 SHAPIRO-Arthur. Our friend and colleague for so many years. We will miss you. Our deepest sympathy to his loving wife, Ina. Florence and Stan Hausner       
 SHAPIRO-Malcolm. Beloved son of Jean. Dear brother of Arvin. Funeral service Monday, 11:30 AM, ''Plaza Memorial Chapel,'' 91st and Amsterdam Ave., NYC. SHAPIRO-Malcolm, on May 1, 1997 (age 42). The Lansco Corporation mourns with great sadness the sudden and untimely passing of our g
 STEIN-Melvin. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Melvin Stein. Mr. Stein, his wife, Elaine, and his family have long been generous & devoted supporters of UJA-Federation. His sister-in-law, Elaine Roberts, is a longtime, dedicated friend o
 WARSHAWSKY-Roy I. age 81; beloved husband of Sarita, nee Sherman; loving father of Ilene (Michael) Shaw and Carol (Michael Steinberg) Warshawsky; proud grandfather of Caroline and Elizabeth Shaw, Daniel, Andrew and James Steinberg; fond brother of Lowell Warshawsky, dear uncle of many niece
 WEINGARTEN-Leonard A., M.D. On May 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Joan; loving father of Leslie (Scott) Singer and Mark (Nancy Greenstein) Weingarten; cherished grandfather of Jordan Taylor Singer; devoted son of Dr. Michael and Beatrice Weingarten; dear brother of Muriel (Sam) Dachs. Service 
 WEINSTOCK-David J., M.D. He was 39 years old of Stamford, Connecticut; died April 23, 1997. Funderal services were held at Gallagher's Funeral Home, Stamford. Interment at Beth El Cemetery in Oradell, New Jersey. Dr. Weinstock was a pediatric intensivist who set up critical care units in ho
 WINTER-Harold, died on April 22. Dearly beloved husband of Susan. Adored father of Peter, and Robin and David Bailey. Joyous and devoted ''poppa'' of Emily. We have lost ''our best friend''. He was a gentleman, who touched so many lives with his goodness and genuine concern. The warmth he r
 ZAX-Harry. Of Paterson, NJ, on Saturday, May 3, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley (nee Hollander) Zax. Devoted and loving father of Leonard A. Zax and his wife Helen, of Washington, DC. Cherished grandfather of David and Laura Zax. Brother of Helen Butler and Shirley Dinerman of NY. Services
 BERLER-Andrew. On the third anniversary of his ''departure'' his family and friends wish to recognize and express appreciation for the opportunity to have known a man who was warm, humorous, loveable and an outstanding intellectual.       
 Dudley Pope, a British author of a series of historical novels about a Royal Navy lieutenant named Ramage and of books of naval history, died on April 25 in Marigot, St. Martin, in the French West Indies. He was 71 and lived on St. Martin. His death was reported on Thursday by The G
 Gerald Freund, a veteran foundation administrator who was the first director of the MacArthur Foundation's Prize Fellows Program, giving large awards that became known unofficially and perhaps enviously as ''genius grants,'' died yesterday in his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He
 Jacob M. Snyder, an advocate of Israeli and Jewish causes and a former administrator of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York, died on April 22 at New York University Medical Center. He was 80 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. Mr. Snyder became the b
 Kennedy Shaw, a consultant on municipal development and the environment, died April 23 at UCSF Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 68 and lived in Guerneville, Calif. The cause was complications after heart surgery, said Ralph Prizio, his longtime companion. A native of 
 CLOSTER-Richard Reuven. 46 years old, after a very long and courageous battle with AIDS. Beloved companion of Stephen B. Goldman, devoted father of Jake, loving son of Doris and Bill and brother of Howard. He is deeply loved and admired and will be greatly missed by his family, friends, col
 FELDMAN-Michael, 82, in Key Biscayne, May 3. Adored husband of 56 years of Grace. Revered father of Judith, Daniel and Richard. Loving father-in-law of Michael, Laurie and Barbara. Beloved grandfather of Nicholas, Jesse, Jaron, David, Jack, Ethan, Eric and Jill. Never one to settle for seco
 KAUFMAN-Samuel. On May 4. Loving husband of Dorothy, cherished father of Elisa, Sonya, Neil and Stephen. Adored grandfather of Erica, Lauren, and Daniel. Services private. For information call Plaza Memorial Chapel, 212769-4400 KAUFMAN-Samuel. The Officers, Trustees and members of P
 RACKMAN-Ruth. We extend our Kos Tanchumim to Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Michael and Honey Rackman, Bennet and Ruth Rackman and Joseph and Elian Rackman, upon the loss of his beloved wife and their cherished mother and mother-in-law. May the family have loving memories of a wonderful wife and mo
 WALSH-Cornelius Stephen. Mr. Walsh, 89 years old, of Palm Beach, Florida, died Friday May 2, 1997, at Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach. Born in New York City, he was a long time resident of Palm Beach, New York and Spring Lake, NJ. Mr. Walsh was a Founder of States Marine Co
 ZAX-Harry. Of Paterson, NJ, on Saturday, May 3, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley (nee Hollander) Zax. Devoted and loving father of Leonard A. Zax and his wife Helen, of Washington, DC. Cherished grandfather of David and Laura Zax. Brother of Helen Butler and Shirley Dinerman of NY. Services
 ZULLER-Philip A. On Saturday, May 3, 1997. Beloved husband of Esther (nee Ditkowsky). Devoted father of Phyllis and Rabbi Phillip Goldman, Helene and Fred Zauder and Joel and Eva Zuller. Cherished grandfather and greatgrandfather. He served as a Licensed Public Accountant for over 60 years 
 Robert A. Beck, who rose from door-to-door selling to the top position at the Prudential Insurance Company of America, died yesterday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. Mr. Beck, who also had a home in Rumson, N.J., was 71. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, his son, Stephen, who l
 The Rev. William M. Lewers, a trustee and professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, died on April 19 at Holy Cross House in Notre Dame, Ind. He was 69. He suffered a lengthy illness, a university spokesman said. Father Lewers joined the law faculty at Notre Dame in 1
 Eugene Vale, author of the best-selling 1959 novel ''The 13th Apostle,'' and of ''The Technique of Screen Play Writing,'' a 1944 textbook that remained in print for more than four decades, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 81. Born in Switzerland, Mr. Vale worked in 
 Irving Kaplan, a professor emeritus and founding member of the department of nuclear engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on April 10 at Massachusetts General Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Belmont, Mass. The cause was complications after heart surgery, M
 Joseph Charles Swidler, one of the last New Dealers of 1933 and a Washington utilities lawyer who overhauled the Federal Power Commission and its regulatory equivalent in New York, died on Thursday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 90 and had lived in Chevy Chase. The cau
 Keith R. PorterKeith R. Porter, a biologist who made the first photographs of tissue cells with the aid of an electron microscope and thus helped found the modern field of cell biology, died on Friday at a retirement home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, a compl
 Murray Kempton, whose independence and unpredictability as a newspaper columnist in New York made him a model of conscience for five decades of journalists and readers, died yesterday at the Kateri Nursing Home in Manhattan. Mr. Kempton was 79 and lived for many years on the Upper West Side
 FARKAS-Miriam. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Peter Kellner on the loss of his mother, Miriam Farkas. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 FARWICK-Rick. Remarkable actor and singer, Rick peacefully left us on May 5 at the age of 42. Loving companion of David Hurst, son of Claude and Angie of Alexandria, KY; brother to Claudia, Paul, David and Danny, friend to so many. He was something wonderful to all who knew him.       
 FREUND-Gerald. It is with profound sadness that his friends and colleagues at the Harlem Educational Activities Fund, Inc. note the passing of Gerald Freund, HEAF's first Executive Director and for many years its Senior Consultant. The HEAF programs he developed, the talented and dedicated 
 GREENBERG-Bernard, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Bernard Greenberg. Dr. Greenberg was a pediatrician with the Department of Pediatrics for over fifty years, practicing until he became ill a few months ago. He was active in the 
 GUNDELL-Peter F. On May 3, 1997 after a courageous battle with Cancer. Beloved husband to Ruth, devoted father to Andy, Jim and Jane. Father-in-Law to Carolyn. Friend to Ed Brill and loving grandfather to Amanda. A man of great intellect, compassion, and humor. Admired for his achievements 
 HANRAHAN-G. Michael. Founder and senior partner in the Pelham law firm of Hanrahan & Hanrahan, died Sunday, May 4, 1997, at his home in Somers, NY. He was 85. In addition to his wife, Florence, he is survived by four daughters, Florie H. Welch, Ellen H. Allen, Nancy H. McKinney, and Kathlee
 KASTOFF-David, M.D. Of Southbury, Connecticut. Treasured husband of Gertrude (Kusher) Kastoff for almost 55 years. Died May 5, 1997 at Hartford Hospital. He was the adored and devoted father of Stephen, Peter and Geraldine, grandfather of Jonathan and Robert, and brother of Hyman Kastoff, M
 KEMPTON-Murray. On May 5th, 1997. Service Thursday, May 8th, 11 AM, at St. Ignatius of Antioch, 87th St. at West End Ave. Friends are invited to offer a contribution in his memory to a charity of their choice, in lieu of flowers.       
 KWASHA-H. Charles. (Chick). Age 90. Of North Miami, FL. Born in Providence, R.I. December 2, 1906. Passed peacefully on May 4, 1997. Graduated Magna Cum Laude, Sigma Psiand Phi Beta Kappa from Brown University in 1928. Founded the Kwasha-Lipton Company, a pre-eminent actuarial consulting fi
 LIPPER-George. Died on Sunday, May 4, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Sally, devoted father of Kenneth and the late Jerome, respected father-in-law of Evelyn and Binnette, adoring grandfather of Allen, Joanna, Daniella, Tamara, Julie and the late David, dear brother of Milton. Services he
 RABB-Norman S. The Board of Governors of The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Norman Rabb, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 SCHATZ-Arthur H., 79, died Saturday (May 3, 1997) at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fl. Mr. Schatz was a graduate of Cornell University and Cornell Law School and started practicing law in 1945. He was the managing partner of Schatz & Schatz, Ribicoff & Kotkin. Mr. Schatz was elected for i
 UNGAR-Nicholas. On May 3, 1997. Beloved husband of Zsofi. He is survived by his sisters-in-laws, nieces, nephews and his devoted help.       
 Paul Lambert, a character actor in movies and on television, died on April 27 at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica, Calif., where he lived. He was 74. In a diverse career, Mr. Lambert played cowboys, gangsters, ministers and executives and the national editor of The Washingt
 Paulo Freire, a radical Brazilian educator known for his methods of using everyday words and ideas to teach illiterates to read -- and to be skeptical about prevailing social and political systems -- died on Friday in Albert Einstein Hospital in Sao Paolo. He was 75 and had lived in Sao Pao
 Alan Gussow, an artist and conservationist, died on Monday at his home in Piermont, N.Y. He was 65. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan. Mr. Gussow was a landscape painter who combined close-up naturalistic observation with an abstract style. In pastel painting
 David E. Scherman, an editor and photojournalist who survived the sinking of an ocean liner by a Nazi warship disguised as a merchant vessel before the outbreak of World War II, and whose photos from a lifeboat enabled the British Navy to track down the German ship and sink it, died on Mond
 BARTNOFF-Rabbi Devora. The Conference of Presidents expresses sincerest condolences to our distinguished colleague, Rabbi Mordechai Liebling, and his children, on the untimely loss of their beloved wife and mother. We pray that he and his family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion 
 CARMALT-Woolsey, on Saturday, May 3, 1997. Beloved husband of Sarah R. Carmalt. Father of Samuel W., Charles R., and William S. Carmalt and Anne C. Stokes. He is also survived by 9 grandchildren. Memorial services will be held at St. John's ChurchLafayette Square, 1525 H Street N.W., Washin
 EDELMAN-David on May 6, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife Ruth (Gidden), loving son James and caring sister Evelyn Friedman. Passed away after a long illness. Retired partner of BDO Seidman. Services Thursday, May 8 at 2:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St & Amsterdam Ave. Donations may be ma
 FREUND-Gerald. It is with profound sadness that his friends and colleagues at the Harlem Educational Activities Fund, Inc. note the passing of Gerald Freund, HEAF's first Executive Director and for many years its Senior Consultant. The HEAF programs he developed, the talented and dedicated 
 JOSEPH-Julian, on May 4, 1997, born in the Bronx, NY, Dec. 20, 1907. He worked in retail luggage sales and repairs in the theater district for many years and had many famous customers ask for ''Joe'' when they came to town. Julian was a beloved son, brother, husband, father and grandfather.
 KEMPTON-Murray. On May 5th, 1997. Service Thursday, May 8th, 11 AM, at St. Ignatius of Antioch, 87th St. at West End Ave. Friends are invited to offer a contribution in his memory to a charity of their choice, in lieu of flowers. KEMPTON-Murray. The members of the American Academy o
 KOLBRENER-Frances. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns the loss of its devoted congregant and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Jeffrey Scherr, President       
 KWASHA-H. Charles. The members of the firm of Ash & Parsont express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our esteemed client and dear friend, H. Charles Kwasha. He will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Joel Ash Allan Ash Neil Ash       
 LIPPER-George. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University mourn the passing of George Lipper, father of our esteemed benefactor, Kenneth Lipper and extend to him and his beloved wife, Dr. Evelyn Gruss, as well as their gifted children, our sincerest condolences. We pray that they will deri
 RABB-Norman. The Brandeis University Community mourns the death of a cherished founding father. For 50 years, Mr. Norman Rabb devoted his imagination and wisdom to the task of bringing this precious new academic asset to a place of dignity in the family of American universities. He was the 
 SHAPIRO-Bernie, passed away Monday evening. He was a graduate of the United States Coast Guard Academy who served his nation well and thereafter entered the business world. He founded Polaris Plastics Corp. which was sold to Ashland Oil Company in 1970 and thereafter organized Rhodes Plasti
 SHAPIRO-Sanford N. Age 48. On May 4, 1997. Beloved son of Rita and George M. Shapiro. Dear brother of Karen Spector. He was a graduate of Williams College, the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University and Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of
 STONE-J. Jacques, on May 6th, in his 90th year. The good times will always be remembered by his wife Janet, by his beloved children Toni & Freeman Shore, and Carol and Alan Pomerantz; and by his adored grandchildren Peter and Julie Strauss & Michael Romano. Services on Thursday, 12 Noon, Ce
 SUKENICK-Martin, former president of Broadway Bank Trust in Paterson, NJ, died March 13, 1997 in Salem, MA. He was 79. Mr. Sukenick joined the bank in 1945 and quickly moved up the ranks to become its vice president, president and in 1968, chairman of the board. He was a key figure in the b
 WARNER-Dr. Truman A. Of Newtown CT, retired Professor of Anthropology at Western Connecticut State University, Danbury, CT died in Danbury on May 5th, 1997. Dr. Warner had taught at Briarcliff High School, Briarcliff Manor, NY for 10 years, prior to joining the Staff at Western Connecticut 
 David Dolgenos, a lawyer and real estate investor who set aside much of his own office in SoHo as a contemporary art gallery, died on Tuesday in a taxi on his way to New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was apparently a heart attack, 
 Gilbert Green, a Communist Party leader who spent six years in a Federal penitentiary for ''conspiracy to teach and advocate'' the overthrow of the United States Government, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 90 and had lived in the Chelsea section of Manhattan unti
 Dr. James Melvin Washington, an expert on black American religious history who taught at Union Theological Seminary for two decades, died on Saturday in St. Luke's Hospital. He was 49 and lived in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan. The cause was a stroke that he suffered 
 Manuel Elizalde Jr., a wealthy Filipino official who caused a sensation in 1971 when he announced that he had discovered a tiny tribe of people who had lived for thousands of years in such blissful Stone Age isolation that they had no word for war, died on Saturday at his home in Makati, a 
 BOLDER-Solomon J. Beloved husband of Alba. Loving father of Arthur and Paula, Larry and Eva, and Sara. Dearest step-father of Marco and Gabriela. Adored grandfather of Anna, Aaron, Amalia, Anessa and Tess. Cherished brother of Ruth Grayson, Natalie Lavner, Sally Ivker and his late brother A
 DECHTER-Martin. For many years a well known and respected leader of the children's wear industry and an active participant in Jewish and civic philanthropies, died Saturday, May 3, at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach, FL. He was 92. Arriving in the United States at age 16 from Odessa, Russ
 DOLGENOS-David. We mourn the passing of a very special man. Your wisdom, counsel and humanity will guide us forever. Our deepest condolences to Nancy and to your entire family. Services Thursday, May 8th, 3:30 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. The firm of Dolge
 EDELMAN-David on May 6, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife Ruth (Gidden), loving son James and caring sister Evelyn Friedman. Passed away after a long illness. Retired partner of BDO Seidman. Services Thursday, May 8 at 2:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St & Amsterdam Ave. Donations may be ma
 GIACALONE-John Paul, passed away on May 5, 1997. At the time of his death, he was a corporate attorney in private practice in New York City. Mr. Giacalone was born and raised on Long Island. He was one of six siblings starting life as a New Years Eve baby in 1961. Mr. Giacolone graduated ma
 KOSHLAND-William A. On May 7, 1997. Greatly loved uncle of Kathryn K. and Anthony D. Blue, great uncle of Caitlin, Toby, Jessica, and Amanda Blue, and Stephen A. Koshland, treasured cousin of Sally J. Kuhn, & devoted friend of Tibor S. Heredy. Memorial service to be announced at a later dat
 KWASHA-Charles. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a cherished friend and a charter member, together with his wife Sylvia, of the Society of Chai Founders. Their support of the school spans three decades, and has given the gift of hope and opportunity to underpri
 RABB-Norman S. The officers, members and staff of The American Jewish Committee are deeply saddened by the death of Norman Rabb, a devoted and long-time leader of AJC. He gave generously of his time, energy & resources, serving as an AJC Vice President, member of our Board of Governors, Cha
 RAVLIN-James N., died May 6, 1997. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our President Agnes Eisenberger on the loss of her beloved Jim. He was also our great friend and his humor and his loyalty to us and to our artists will be missed. Devotedly the staff of Colbert Artist Management     
 SCHLAIFER-Charles, on Monday, May 5. Beloved husband of Ann Mesavage Schlaifer, cherished father of Arlene Silk and Roberta Semer, devoted grandfather of Nicole Silk, Bruce and Scott Semer. His ''Heart's Work'' was his love for his family, his work in entertainment advertising, and his unfl
 SCHWARZ-James H., passed away April 30, 1997. Son of the late Louis and Lillian Schwarz. Mr. Schwarz was active for years in the garment industry. He served in the armed forces World War II. Survived by a brother and sisterin-law, Richard and Jan Schwarz, Washington, DC, and many loving fri
 SHAPIRO-Sanford N. Age 48. On May 4, 1997. Beloved son of Rita and George M. Shapiro. Dear brother of Karen Spector. He was a graduate of Williams College, the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University and Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of
 STONE-J. Jacques, on May 6th, in his 90th year. The good times will always be remembered by his wife Janet, by his beloved children Toni & Freeman Shore, and Carol and Alan Pomerantz; and by his adored grandchildren Peter and Julie Strauss & Michael Romano. Services on Thursday, 12 Noon, Ce
 Sydney J. Freedberg, an art historian who taught for nearly three decades at Harvard and was chief curator of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 82. Mr. Freedberg's writing on the art of the Italian High Renaissance embodied 
 Charles Schlaifer, an advertising agency owner and movie executive whose promotion of the film ''The Snake Pit'' inspired him to become an important advocate of improved mental health care in the United States, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Mr. Schlaifer was an
 One man speaks to God. The other speaks to the stock market. Both of them hear things that no one else does. The rabbi knows precious little about business and is fine with that. The investor, an avowed agnostic, bought his first stock when he was 11, and his acumen for making money
 Dr. George N. Aagaard, former dean of the University of Washington School of Medicine, died on Wednesday at the university's Medical Center in Seattle. He was 83 and lived in Seattle. The cause was leukemia, said Leila Gray, a spokeswoman for the medical school. When he beca
 H. Myles Jacob, a former chief executive of the Inspiration Consolidated Copper Company, died yesterday at his home in Pittstown, N.J. He was 84. Mr. Jacob joined Inspiration, an Arizona mining concern with headquarters in New York, in 1936. He was named president in 1960 and became
 Jerome Alden, a writer for stage, television and screen whose works included the play ''Bully'' and the musical ''Teddy and Alice,'' died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. The cause was kidney cancer, said his wife, Barbara Gaye. He was 76. Mr. Alden was born in Portland, 
 Manuel Nardy, a hard-drinking, tale-spinning cowboy of such hardscrabble simplicity that he didn't learn until years after the fact that he had been translated into one of the most memorable characters in Brazilian literature, died on Monday in a hospital in Belo Horizonte, 200 miles  north
 BOLDER-Solomon J. Beloved husband of Alba, loving father of Arthur and Paula, Larry and Eva, and Sara, dearest step-father of Marco and Gabriella, former husband of Claire, the mother of Arthur, Larry and Sara. Adored grandfather of Hannah, Aaron, Amalia, Anessa and Tess, Cherished brother 
 CAVE-Vernal G., M.D., The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, Administration and employees of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center express with great sorrow the passing of its esteemed member of the Board. He was a generous philanthropist who was sincerely committed to helping
 DuBOIS-Duke. We will miss his generosity, humor and friendship. Most of all we will never forget what he has done for our children. The Kinberg Family       
 FLECHNER-Abraham J., died May 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Brenda. Devoted father of Neil, Carol, and Roberta. Cherished brother of Max. We will miss him.       
 FREEDBERG - Sydney Joseph. Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Fine Arts Emeritus, Harvard Univ.; Chief Curator Emeritus, National Gallery of Art; on May 6, 1997, at his home in Washington, DC; in the company of his wife of 30 years, Catherine Blanton Freedberg, & his youngest son, Sydney J
 FREUND-Gerald. The Hunter College community mourns the loss of Gerald Freund, our first Dean of Humanities and the Arts (1971-1979). He shaped the course of study for liberal arts students, served as a mentor to students and faculty, initiated the Hunter Galleries, and obtained vital fundin
 KOSHLAND-William A. On May 7, 1997. Greatly loved uncle of Kathryn K. and Anthony D. Blue, great uncle of Caitlin, Toby, Jessica, and Amanda Blue, and Stephen A. Koshland, treasured cousin of Sally J. Kuhn, & devoted friend of Tibor S. Heredy. Memorial service to be announced at a later dat
 MALKIN-Edgar W. Beloved father of Harold and Jill Malkin Addeo, loving father-in-law of Jennifer Porter and Geoffrey Addeo, dear friend of Ruth Neale and loving guardian of Seth. His devotion, warmth and wit will be sorely missed by all whose lives he touched. He cared deeply for his family
 STONE-J. Jacques. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of J. Jacques Stone, an active supporter of UJA-Federation and a devoted Jewish communal leader who was particularly focused on assuring our Jewish continuity. Mr. Stone served on UJA-Federa
 WASHINGTON-James M. The entire Union Theological Seminary Community, its Alumni/ae and Friends mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, teacher and friend, Dr. James M. Washington. Union will long treasure the rich legacy of scholarship, teaching and preaching he left to generations of gra
 WILSON-James J., May 7, 1997, of Scarsdale, New York. Husband of Marie. Father of James J. III, Kevin J., Timothy M., Therese, Maura Harvey, & Claire. Brother of Bridgett Hartman. Grandfather of 7. Family will receive friends at the Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenue, Scarsdale, New
 William A. Koshland, chairman emeritus and former president of the publisher Alfred A. Knopf, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said William T. Loverd, a senior vice president at Knopf, an autonomous
 Bob Devaney, a raconteur and humorist whose coaching made the University of Nebraska a national football power and whose leadership as athletic director modernized the athletics program, died yesterday at the Eastment Towers, a retirement home in Lincoln, Neb. He was 82. He had been
 Marco Ferreri, the fiercely satiric Italian director perhaps best known for ''La Grande Bouffe,'' in which four charming middle-age men gorge themselves to death in a suicide pact, died yesterday in a hospital in Paris. He was 68. The cause of death was a heart attack, Reuters repor
 Morton L. Deitch, a Manhattan lawyer affiliated for seven decades with the firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan and long active in the cause of child care, died on April 26 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 95. Mr. Deitch, a native of Knoxville, Tenn., and a gradu
 BIBER-Donald R. Age 69, of Fort Lee, New Jersey, formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ. Survived by his beloved wife Sandra Schneeweiss Biber; cherished father of Hugh, and Amy Barr; sister, Lois Shapiro; and six adored grandchildren. Predeceased by his wife Rita Spiegel Biber in 1978. A mourning perio
 CLANCY-Thomas Noel, on May 7, 1997 of Manhasset NY. Mayor & Trustee of Plandome Heights. He was also President of Manhasset Community Fund and Volunteer for Long Island Association for Aids Care, Inc. (LIAAC). Beloved husband of Barbara. Dear father of Barbara Martino & Tracey Guarini. Gran
 FISHMAN-Seymour, 82, of Aventura, Florida. Formerly of NYC, N.Y., passed away May 7, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife Sylvia; and his loving children, Steven and Judith; and by his adored grandchildren, Stephanie and Laura and devoted brother of the late Bernard. He loved life and lived w
 GIACALONE-John Paul, passed away on May 5, 1997. At the time of his death, he was a corporate attorney in private practice in New York City. Mr. Giacalone was born and raised on Long Island. He was one of six siblings starting life as a New Years Eve baby in 1961. Mr. Giacalone graduated ma
 LUBKEMEIER-Walter. The Board of Directors, Tenant Shareholders and staff of 900 5th Avenue mourn the loss of our long time Resident Manager. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife and children. Viewing at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Avenue and 81st Street, from 3-5 and 7-9 PM, Saturday a
 BILOXI, Miss., May 10 (AP) - Billy Joe Clegg, a minister who ran for President seven times, died of a heart attack on Monday. He was 69. Mr. Clegg ran for President every four years since 1972, advocating what he termed conservative spiritual convictions, and he recently announced t
 Dr. Chia-Shun Yih, an authority on fluid mechanics, died of heart failure in his sleep on April 25 while in a plane over Japan. He was 78 and lived in Gainesville, Fla. Dr. Yih was the Timoshenko University Professor Emeritus at the University of Michigan, where he retired in 1988 b
 Frederick E. M. Ballon, a practitioner of bankruptcy and insolvency law and a founder of the Manhattan law firm of Ballon Stoll Bader & Nadler, died on April 25 at a hospital in Palm Beach, Fla., where he had a winter house. He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. M
 J. Jacques Stone, a Manhattan lawyer and a leader in Jewish educational, religious and philanthropic causes, died on Tuesday at his home on Manhattan's East Side. He was 89 and also lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Stone was a partner in th
 Meir Lev, the director of research services and a professor of microbiology at City University of New York Medical School-Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education, died on May 1 at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 67. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, his family said
 BEISER-Louis, 86 years old. He passed away on Thursday, May 1, 1997. For 60 years Louis was the beloved husband of Dorothy who passed away in December 1996. Louis retired from private practice as a certified public accountant in New York City in 1975. After moving to Tamarac, FL. he became 
 BIBER-Donald R. Age 69, of Fort Lee, New Jersey, formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ. Survived by his beloved wife Sandra Schneeweiss Biber; cherished father of Hugh, and Amy Barr; sister, Lois Shapiro; and six adored grandchildren. Predeceased by his wife Rita Spiegel Biber in 1978. A mourning perio
 CLARKE-James J. Retired Vice President of American International Group, Inc. Died on Wednesday, May 7, 1997. He is survived by his wife Irene; his sisters Virginia and Anna; and his nieces Anne, Marie and Alice. Mass of Resurrection was celebrated on Saturday, May 10, 1997, at St. Vincent F
 DOLGENOS-David. January 9, 1931-May 6, 1997. ''Buffalo Bill's'' by e.e. cummings. Buffalo Bill's defunct who used to ride a watersmooth-silver stallion and break onetwothreefourfive pigeons-justlikethat jesus he was a handsome man and what i want to know is how do you like your blueeyed boy
 FAIRBACK-William Dickson, 61, in Southampton, New York, on May 2, 1997. Of Tustin, California, Rumson, New Jersey, Nantucket, MA and NYC. Graduate of Knickerbocker Greys, Canterbury School, Nichols College. Survived by loving son Dwight and his wife Krisen of NYC; daughter Dianne Wright of 
 FISHMAN-Seymour, 82, of Aventura, Florida. Formerly of NYC, N.Y., passed away May 7, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife Sylvia; and his loving children, Steven and Judith; and by his adored grandchildren, Stephanie and Laura and devoted brother of the late Bernard. He loved life and lived w
 GRAY-Austen T., died May 9 at the age of 89. Beloved husband of Milo, loving father of Phyllis Heaton, Alice Standteiner, Pamela Resse and Austen T. Gray Jr. Adored grandfather of 13 and great grandfather of 7. Mr. Gray was managing director of Trainor Wortham, honorary director of the New 
 GROSS-Irwin. Suddenly on April 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Lynn, cherished father of Robin and Richard, loving grandfather of Max and Wyatt, loving brother of Tena Rubin. Dr. Irwin Gross was a giant in the fields of creative art and art education. He was principal of the High School of Art
 GROSS-Michael. Age 58. Of Westport, CT and Boca Raton, FL. Died April 22, 1997. He was a graduate of MIT and Columbia University. Survivors include his wife Esta, daughter Joli and many relatives and friends, all of whom miss him dearly. Contributions may be made to Ronald McDonald House.  
 KLEIN-Martin D. Devoted brother of William J. and Joan L., on May 8, after a long battle with emphysema. Born in NYC, he was a resident of Cleveland area for many years. 10 years after working with General Electric Company he co-founded the interior design firm of Barnaby-Klein which the pa
 LIPPER-George. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of George Lipper. His son, Kenneth Lipper, is a devoted friend and supporter of UJA-Federation and an active leader in the Jewish philanthropic community. His wife, Evelyn, shares his devotion 
 LOVEJOY-Allen F. The Council and membership of The American Numismatic Society, New York, mourn the loss of their esteemed Councillor and Patron, Allen F. Lovejoy, who died May 8, 1997. A member of the ANS governing board since 1988, he served as First Vice-President and member of the Execu
 LUCHS-Saul M. Esteemed physician, surgeon and recent law school graduate. Passed away on May 8, 1997 due to complications related to a brain tumor. He is survived by daughter, Stacey; sons, Joshua and Gary; grandsons, Matthew & Max; brother, Morton. In lieu of flowers, family requests donat
 ORTIZ-Anthony John. Tony died May 6, 1997, at age 42, after a long battle with AIDS. His Christmas cards for MOMA delighted thousands every year. Known to many in the AIDS community as the ''little guy with the big voice at demos,'' he will be remembered for his high spirits, spectacular sm
 PETTIGREW-Richard Giles, on May 9, in NYC. Survived by his longtime companion Martin Zachary Gavin. A memorial service will be announced at a later date.       
 PORTER-Keith. The Rockefeller University mourns the passing of Keith Porter, who began his career at the university's predecessor, The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. He left a 50year legacy of significant accomplishments as a pioneer of a new science, modern cell biology. His i
 SCHLOEDER-Francis X., M.D. Of Brooklyn. Age sixty-seven. Of a heart attack in Houston, TX, on May 4, 1997. Renowned nephrologist in the Canal Zone, Houston and Montgomery. Beloved husband of Ilana Reisz. Loving father, stepfather, proud grandfather, cherished brother and dear uncle. He will
 VAN LIMBURG STIRUM-Count Wigbold A.W. At his home, May 9, 1997 at LaGrangeville, New York. Survived by his wife Lucy, his children Linda and Frans, his daughters-in-law Susan and Clara, his grandchildren Tristan and Marina. Pre-deceased by a son Leopold Franklin, 1988. Also survived by his 
 Allen F. Lovejoy, a retired lawyer who was an eminent and single-minded collector of American coins, specializing exclusively in dimes, died on Thursday in the Mediplex rehabilitation center in Stamford, Conn. He was 77 and lived in Riverside, Conn. The cause was complications resul
 Dr. Vernal G. Cave, a Brooklyn physician and civic leader whose series of imposing titles tended more to obscure than to reflect his almost half-century of quiet, day-to-day work on behalf of black medical, political and social causes, died on Wednesday at University Hospital of Brooklyn. H
 BEARD-Anson McCook, age 88. After a long illness, died peacefully at his home on Long Island on May 10. Beloved husband of the late Roseanne Beard, he is survived by three sons, Anson McCook, Jr., of Greenwich, CT, Peter Hill of Montauk, NY, Samuel Sherwood of New Castle, DE, and seven gran
 BENDHEIM - Charles Henry. Passed away Saturday, May 10, at his home in Jerusalem, Israel, and was interred there on May 11. He will be sorely missed by wife, sister, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and by everyone he came in contact with. The family will sit shiva in Jerusa
 GOTTLIEB-Harold, on May 10, 1997. Service Monday, 11 AM, at Clark Assocs. Funeral Home, Katonah, NY, 914-232-3033. GOTTLIEB-Harold. Another part of our exciting circle has left us. Friend, raconteur, Yiddishist, and a very moral being. To Jean, his devoted wife, and Perry, his devot
 GROSS-Leo. On May 10, 1997. Age 82. Survived by his wife, Norma; his children, Alan (Penni Harmon), Terry (Victoria Kelly) and Jody (Perk Larsen); and his grandchildren Mowgli, Crystal, Lily, Daniel and Elliot. Memorial service May 16 at 2 PM, at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64 Stree
 LOVINGER-Joseph. Beloved husband of Abbie. Devoted father of Dawn and Gary Rosenfeld, Elizabeth and John Lane, Daniel and Linda Lovinger, and Nicole Lovinger. Dear brother of Merle and Steve Brenner. Loving grandfather of Alexander, Nicholas, Casey, Matthew, Thomas and Courtney. Cherished s
 Alton Blakeslee, a longtime science editor of The Associated Press whose reporting covered everything from the first polio vaccine to heart transplants and space exploration, died on Sunday night at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Port Washington.  
 ASCH-John. Died May 10, 1997 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Mary Blume-Asch, devoted son of author Sholem Asch, loving brother of Ruth Shaffer, of Brighton, England, and Nathan and Moses Asch, both deceased. Stepfather of James and Frederick Blume, father-in-law of Kathryn Frank and M
 BEARD-Anson McCook, age 88. After a long illness, died peacefully at his home on Long Island on May 10. Beloved husband of the late Roseanne Beard, he is survived by three sons, Anson McCook, Jr., of Greenwich, CT., Peter Hill of Montauk, NY, Samuel Sherwood of New Castle, DE, and 7 grandch
 BENDHEIM - Charles Henry. Passed away Saturday, May 10, at his home in Jerusalem, Israel, and was interred there on May 11. He will be sorely missed by wife, sister, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and by everyone he came in contact with. The family will sit shiva in Jerusa
 deBOER-Fredrick E. ''Frits'', 60, of 35 West Street, Middletown, CT., in Los Angeles, California, on May 9th. One of leading national scholars of Balinese studies; winner of the Dharama Kusuma Medal in 1993 and professor at Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT. Member of the Society for Bali
 DOYLE-Jon C. Passed away on May 9 at the Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Doyle is survived by his wife, Nancy of Brooklyn, and his two daughters by a former marriage, Megan and Courtney of Manhattan. Memorial services will be held at 11 AM on Thursday, May 15 at the Madison Avenue Pr
 GROSS-Leo. On May 10, 1997. Age 82. Survived by his wife, Norma; his children, Alan (Penni Harmon), Terry (Victoria Kelly) and Jody (Perk Larsen); and his grandchildren Mowgli, Crystal, Lily, Daniel and Elliot. Memorial service May 16 at 2 PM, at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64 Stree
 KELLY-John A. Miller Druck Co, Inc. regrets to announce the passing of John A. Kelly. Mr. Kelly was a long-time, valuable member of our family. It is with deep sympathy that we offer our condolences and prayers to his family and friends.       
 KRAVER-Richard M. The Stern School of Business at New York University has lost a close friend and alumnus, Richard M. Kraver, who received his undergraduate degree in 1968. He was an active member of the Stern Alumni Association Board of Directors, having joined the Board in 1987, and was i
 McGINNESS-Arthur F. On May 11, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Mary Dailey McGinness. Loving father of Eugenia Singer. Devoted grandfather of Gregory, Maureen and Sheila. Dear brother of Josephine Connelly. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Wednesday, 4-7 P
 PLOTTEL-Frances Banner. March 11, 1906-May 12, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Rhea, Marilyn, Roland and his wife Jeanine. Cherished grandmother of Claudia and Lawrence; Michael and Daniella; Philip and Gloria. Loving great grandmother of Charles, Elisabeth, Julia 
 SARETSKY-Philip. His family mourns the loss of their beloved father, grandfather and greatgrandfather at the age of 99 years. Philip was a husband of 72 years to his late wife Estelle and is survived by his children Ruth Brooks, Muriel and Mel Brown, Erwin Raffle, 8 grandchildren and 16 gre
 SOUBRY-Kenneth W.S., on May 11, 1997 in Greenwich, CT. Former Chairman and Chief Executive of Alexander & Alexander Services, Inc. In addition to his wife Irene, he is survived by a daughter Clara, a sister Moira Esdaile of Toronto, Canada, two nephews and a niece. Services will be private.
 WHITSETT-Curtis Mosley. Beloved husband of Patricia, devoted father of Curice, Camille, Jackline and Tamara. Cherished son of Vera and L.T. Whitsett, friend and counsellor to many, died May 10, 1997 in New York of congestive heart failure. Curtis was a friend, in his youth, of Martin Luther
 YOUNG-Alexander William Jr. The faculty and staff of the Department of Dermatology at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, & the St. Luke's Roosevelt Medical Center mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Dr. Yo
 The Rev. Dr. William Ragsdale Cannon Jr., a Methodist bishop and theologian whose ministry included national and international church activities that led to a friendship with President Jimmy Carter, died on Sunday at Crawford W. Long Hospital in Atlanta. He was 81. Dr. Cannon, who a
 The Rev. Dean M. Kelley, a leading proponent of religious liberty who used his position at the National Council of Churches to speak out for the rights of religious groups large and small, died Sunday at his home in West Swanzey, N.H. He was 70. The cause was cancer, the council sai
 L. Jeffrey Selznick, a film and television producer and the president of the Louis B. Mayer Foundation, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 64 and lived in Miami. His brother, Daniel, said he suffered a heart attack during a business meeting in Los Angeles. Mr. Selznick wa
 ASCH-John. Died May 10, 1997 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Mary Blume-Asch, devoted son of author Sholem Asch, loving brother of Ruth Shaffer, of Brighton, England, and Nathan and Moses Asch, both deceased. Stepfather of James and Frederick Blume, father-in-law of Kathryn Frank and M
 BENDHEIM - Charles Henry. Passed away Saturday, May 10, at his home in Jerusalem, Israel, and was interred there on May 11. He will be sorely missed by wife, sister, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and by everyone he came in contact with. The family will sit shiva in Jerusa
 BUMGARDNER-Harvey E., Jr. passed away in South Burlington, VT., on May 12, 1997. He will be missed by his wife, Dong-Sook Kim, son Gregory, daughters Deborah & Pamela, ex-wife Barbara & six grandchildren. Pre-deceased by son Harvey E., III. He will be buried in North Hero, Vermont. For info
 CARLTON-Richard E. of Bedford, New York, and New York City, in Bath, England, on May 11, 1997, age 57. Beloved husband of Elizabeth and loving father of Beth Carlton Camp and Catherine. He is also survived by his father, Edwin Carlton, Jr., his brothers, Stephen B. Carlton and Edwin Carlton
 CAVE-Vernal G., MD. The SUNY Health Science Center at Brooklyn Community mourns the passing of Dr. Vernal G. Cave, physician and civic leader. His vision and tireless efforts improved the lives of countless New Yorkers. Our sincerest condolences are extended to his wife, relatives and frien
 DRISCOLL-William Nott. Age 80. Of Plymouth, MN. Died Sunday, May 11th, 1997. LaRose School, Switzerland, The Hill School, Yale, 1940, U.S. Navy Pilot during W.W. II, Board President United Theological Seminary, New Brighton, MN, Board President, Minnesota Outward Bound School. Survived by s
 GROSS-Leo. On May 10, 1997. Age 82. Survived by his wife, Norma; his children, Alan (Penni Harmon), Terry (Victoria Kelly) and Jody (Perk Larsen); and his grandchildren Mowgli, Crystal, Lily, Daniel and Elliot. Memorial service May 16 at 2 PM, at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64 Stree
 McGINNESS-Arthur F. On May 11, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Mary Dailey McGinness. Loving father of Eugenia Singer. Devoted grandfather of Gregory, Maureen and Sheila. Dear brother of Josephine Connelly. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Wednesday, 4-7 P
 NOMBURG-Harry. Born in Coburg, Germany, on November 17, 1923, he was sent with a ''Kindertransport'' to Scotland in May 1939. As a member of a British Commando Unit, he participated in the D-Day invasion of Normandy and fought Nazi Germany until its collapse. In 1948 he came to the US where
 PARLIN-John J. (Jack). Died on May 13, 1997, at the Morristown Memorial Hospital, Morristown, New Jersey. Advertising executive for The New York Times, retired 1992 after 38 years. Born in NYC and lived in Parsippany, NJ for last thirty years. W.W. II Navy veteran, Mason for St. John's Lodg
 ROSSELL-Rafael. Passed away unexpectedly Sunday, May 11, 1997, of heart failure. Beloved husband of Ana. Father of Roxana, Robert and Roman. Grandfather of Jocelyn. A dedicated father, psychoanalyst, critical intellectual and educator throughout his life. His family, friends, colleagues and
 WEBER-Joseph. Beloved husband of Elisabeth. Devoted father of Susan & Steven. Loving fatherin-law of Barbara and Stephen. Cherished grandfather of Jason, Jordan, Matthew & his wife Carrie. WEBER-Joseph. The Woodcrest Club mourns the passing of one of its beloved members Joseph Weber
 Peter Stackpole, an original staff photographer for Life magazine, who chronicled the building of the Golden Gate Bridge, the invasion of Saipan, the glamour of Hollywood and life beneath the sea, died on Sunday at Novato Community Hospital in Novato, Calif., where he lived. He was 83.     
 Laurie Lee, a poet, novelist and scriptwriter who grew up in a small Cotswold village, walked across Europe, fought in the Spanish Civil War and wrote about all three in a highly regarded series of memoirs, died  yesterday at his Gloucestershire,  England, home. He was 82. Mr. Lee w
 BARTLETT-David. Died May 13. Survived by his wife Stefane Abeille-Demay; his daughters Linda Miller, Victoria Donaldson & Stefane Bartlett; 4 granddaughters & his brother, Charles L. Bartlett. Memorial mass is at 4 P.M., on Tuesday, May 20, Saint Vincent Ferrer, 869 Lexington Avenue.       
 BENDHEIM-Charles. It is with profound sorrow that Shulamith School for Girls expresses its deepest sympathies to the Bendheim family upon the loss of Mr. Charles Bendheim, distinguished philanthropist, a giant in the Jewish community at large, whose deep respect for Torah and its institutio
 CAMPBELL-Ivor E. Of New Albany, OH, May 5, 1997. Chief of the Inorganic Chemistry Division of Battelle Memorial Institute, Director of Research and Development, National Steel Company and a research chemist at Westinghouse. Returning to Columbus, he was a member of a consulting firm and an 
 CRANDELL-Edwin Hawley, died on May 7th, 1997 at the age of 82. Devoted husband of the late Maxine Hothorn Crandell who died on November 30, 1996. Mr. Crandell was also a beloved uncle to Cathy Crandell Long of Summit, NJ, Laurie Roberts of NYC and many other nieces and nephews. Mr. Crandell
 ENO-Lawrence R., 83, on May 13, 1997. Husband of the late Ruth Smolen Eno, survived by his sister Rosalind Milman, his sons Richard and Robert, his daughters-in-law Janet Van Fleet and Candice Pong Eno, his grandchildren Jonas and Berrian Eno-Van Fleet and Jared and Daniel Eno, his brothers
 GROSS-Leo. On May 10, 1997. Age 82. Survived by his wife, Norma; his children, Alan (Penni Harmon), Terry (Victoria Kelly) and Jody (Perk Larsen); and his grandchildren Mowgli, Crystal, Lily, Daniel and Elliot. Memorial service May 16 at 2 PM, at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64 Stree
 HEILIG-Morton L., on May 14, 1997, in California. Beloved husband of Marianne. Loving father of Leslie (Lebowitz), Gregory and Jeffrey. Loving father-in-law, adoring grandfather. Beloved brother of Gladys Wiesenthal and Joan Kahn, and adored uncle. A man of all seasons and many talents, Mor
 JOHNSTON-Kenneth F. Sr., of Manhasset, New York (retired NYPD), suddenly on 13 May 1997. Beloved husband of the late Catherine M. (nee Crichton). Cherished father of the late Kenneth Jr. (Stephanie), Rev. Jeffrey, Beth Perchuk (Mark), Janice Abdenour (Michael), Donna Cardone (James) & Dougl
 JONES-Edward Murray, on May 12, 1997 at his residence. Husband of the late Mary Margaret Jones, father of Mary Patricia Piller, Michael Edward Jones, and Brian Edward Jones. Visiting hours are from 7-9 PM, Friday, May 16 at the Everly Funeral Home, 10565 Main Street, Fairfax, VA. Services w
 SELZNICK-L. Jeffrey. The President, Board of Trustees, staff and extended family of Dana-Farber Cancer Institute mourn the passing, on May 12, of our esteemed friend & benefactor L. Jeffrey Selznick. Mr. Selznick will be remembered for his loyal commitment to Dana-Farber's mission of provid
 SKOLNIK-Nathan. The Community Synagogue Max D. Raiskin Center joins the Skolnik family in mourning the loss of a pillar of our Jewish community center, Past President and Past Member of our Board of Directors. He will be sorely missed by his wife, children, grandchildren and all of us. May 
 Harry Blackstone Jr., a magician who made handkerchiefs dance across a Broadway stage and globes of light float above his audience, who made elephants vanish and turned beautiful women into Bengal tigers, who sawed his wife in half 17 times a week during their 23 years of marriage, died on 
 Nathan Skolnik, long the bane of organized crime, bureaucratic inefficiency and official skulduggery in New York State, died on Saturday at New York University Hospital. He was 86 and had been deputy commissioner of the State Commission of Investigation from 1958 to 1975. His wife, 
 CARLTON-Richard E. of Bedford, New York, and New York City, in Bath, England, on May 11, 1997, age 57. Beloved husband of Elizabeth and loving father of Beth Carlton Camp and Catherine. He is also survived by his father, Edwin Carlton, Jr., his brothers, Stephen B. Carlton and Edwin Carlton
 CAVE-Vernal M.D. It is with deep gratitude that we remember our colleague and fellow board member of the Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health, Dr. Vernal Gordon Cave. Early in the Institute's founding, Dr. Cave gave unselfishly of his expertise, commitment and financial support. His deep 
 CRANDELL-Edwin Hawley, died on May 7th, 1997 at the age of 82. Devoted husband of the late Maxine Hothorn Crandell who died on November 30, 1996. Mr. Crandell was also a beloved uncle to Cathy Crandell Long of Summit, NJ, Laurie Roberts of NYC and many other nieces and nephews. Mr. Crandell
 ENO-Lawrence R., 83, on May 13, 1997. Husband of the late Ruth Smolen Eno, survived by his sister Rosalind Milman, his sons Richard and Robert, his daughters-in-law Janet Van Fleet and Candice Pong Eno, his grandchildren Jonas and Berrian Eno-Van Fleet and Jared and Daniel Eno, his brothers
 FRIEDEL-Irving. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, great grandfather, uncle and great uncle. Survived by his wife of 65 years, Dora; loving children, Celia and Charles Reiner, Dr Walter and Dorothy Friedel; caring grandfather of the late Michael Reiner; and Eric, Rose and Donald Reiner, 
 GROSS-Leo. On May 10, 1997. Age 82. Survived by his wife, Norma; his children, Alan (Penni Harmon), Terry (Victoria Kelly) and Jody (Perk Larsen); and his grandchildren Mowgli, Crystal, Lily, Daniel and Elliot. Memorial service May 16 at 2 PM, at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64 Stree
 JOHNSTON-Kenneth F. Sr., of Manhasset, New York (retired NYPD), suddenly on 13 May 1997. Beloved husband of the late Catherine M. (nee Crichton). Cherished father of the late Kenneth Jr. (Stephanie), Rev. Jeffrey, Beth Perchuk (Mark), Janice Abdenour (Michael), Donna Cardone (James) & Dougl
 KOZEL-Bernard I. On May 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Shelly and Laurie. Loving grandfather of Lauren, Jason and Marc. Dear brother, brother-in-law, uncle, father-in-law and son-in-law. Services were held. He is missed by all.       
 KRIEBLE-Robert H. Scientist, entrepreneur, and a founder of the Loctite Corporation, died on May 8th at his home in Old Lyme, CT. He was 80 years old. He attended Phillips Academy, Andover; Haverford College; and received his Ph.D. in Chemistry from Johns Hopkins University where he was a m
 PORTER-George L., a long time resident of Greenwich Village, died May 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Doris Woodell Porter. Born in Vienna, Austria he became Vice President for Business and Finance, as well as controller, of the National Audubon Society, from which he retired in 1975. He was t
 SKOLNIK-Nathan. Died on May 10, at the age of 85. Beloved husband of Rose for over 60 years, father of Richard (Louise) and Phyllis, grandfather of Seth, Sari, Deborah, Rebecca. A man of unswerving rectitude, boundless energy, immense curiosity and generosity, he was held in enormous esteem
 ZEMACH-Rabbi Abraham. 81, of Deerfield, IL on May 12, 1997. He held masters and doctoral degrees from The Jewish Theological Seminary of America and was ordained as a Rabbi in 1941. Commissioned in 1942, he served as a U.S. Army Chaplain in Europe during World War II; then, as Advisor on Je
 Ralph Wendell Burhoe, an educator and writer esteemed for his interpretations of the relevance of religion in a technological society, died on May 8 at his home in the Hyde Park section of Chicago. He was 85. Mr. Burhoe was widely known for his examination of evolution, technology a
 James M. Fox, who ran the New York office of the F.B.I. when it solved the World Trade Center bombing and built the case that finally sent John Gotti to prison, died yesterday morning at The Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 59 and a resident of Manhattan. Mr. Fox, who retired from
 ENO-Lawrence R.. The tenants, friends and Board of Directors of 173-175 Riverside Drive acknowledge with gratitude the many years of honorable and devoted service Larry Eno provided everyone in this building. We all send sincere sympathy to his family. The Board of Directors 173-175 Riversi
 FOX-James M. In loving memory of a friend, patriot and fellow founding board member. With deepest sympathies to his family. The Board of the Federal Law Enforcement Foundation, Inc.       
 ROTHENBERG-Richard, Dr. On May 15, 1997. The entire Stuyvesant Family - students, staff, administration, alumni and parents, deeply mourn the sudden and untimely loss of their dear friend, teacher and colleague, Richard Rothenberg, Assistant Principal, Mathematics. A graduate, Class of 1963
 SOLAR-Joseph J., 84, of Toms River, NJ on May 12, 1997 at Green Acres Manor, Toms River, NJ. He was a labor leader in New York State & City with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFLCIO. He joined the IAM, Lodge #       
 TURNER-Jacob. Died in his sleep May 16, 1997. Loving father of Liebert and Pilar. Devoted grandfather of Peter, Michael, Robert, and Neil. Private Services.       
 Robert D. Campbell, a former chairman, publisher and president of Newsweek magazine, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Monday in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., his son, William, said. He was 79. Mr. Campbell, who spent three decades with Newsweek before he retired in 1979,
 Saadallah Wannous, whose courageously caustic plays and social criticism about the Arabs' political decline made him one of the Arab world's leading playwrights, died on Thursday in Damascus, Syria. He was 56. The cause was cancer, his family said. Though the Syrian Governme
 Alton Harrington Ketchum, a retired advertising executive and historian, died on April 29 at Reston Hospital Center in Reston, Va., during a family visit. He was 92 and lived in Cos Cob, Conn. Mr. Ketchum, a native of Cleveland and a 1926 graduate of what is now Case Western Reserve
 Charles Henry Bendheim, an industrialist and a supporter of Jewish causes and organizations in New York and Israel, died on May 5 at his home in Jerusalem. A former resident of Manhattan's West Side, he was 79 and also had homes in the Bronx and in Long Beach, N.Y. The cause was pro
 Dr. Julius Dintenfass, a chiropractor who was instrumental in the licensing of chiropractors in New York State, died on May 8 at Columbia Northwest Hospital in Coconut Creek, Fla., where he had a vacation home. He was 86. Dr. Dintenfass lived in Woodsburgh, N.Y., where he was Mayor 
 Michael J. Murphy, who served as the New York City Police Commissioner during a tumultuous period in the 1960's punctuated by riots and bitter accusations of police brutality, died early yesterday at his home in Smithtown, N.Y. He was 83. He died of natural causes, his daughter-in-l
 BARON-Samuel. Beloved husband of Carol. Devoted father of Pamela and David. Dear brother of Sydel Fishman. Dear son-in-law of Esther Kitzes. Cherished uncle, brother-in-law and cousin. Services Sunday, 12 noon, at Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck (opposite L
 BARTLETT-David. Died May 13. Survived by his wife Stefane Abeille-Demay; his daughters Linda Miller, Victoria Donaldson & Stefane Bartlett; 4 granddaughters & his brother, Charles L. Bartlett. Memorial mass is at 4 P.M., on Tuesday, May 20, Saint Vincent Ferrer, 869 Lexington Avenue.       
 BENDHEIM-Charles, of New York and Jerusalem. It is with deep sorrow and regret that the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, AIPAC, mourns the passing of the father of our esteemed board member, Jack Bendheim. Philanthropist, pillar of the community, supporter of a myriad of Jewish org
 CREEL-Dana Shannon, 84, of Sharon, CT, died at his home on Haisdan Farm on May 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Jane Haislip Creel; brother of Virginia Creel Clark and uncle of David Clark. He graduated from Emory University, its Law School and the Harvard Business School, and served in the Cou
 EHRLICH-Dr. Herman. Of Holly lle, NJ. Passed away on May 15, 1997 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of 57 years of the late Lillian Ehrlich; adored and adoring father of Amy Tobin, Hollywood and Joan Ehrlich-White, NY; loved and admired father-in-law of Jack Tobin and Arthur White; loving, 
 ENGEL-Irving H. Our sturdiest pillar of strength has fallen. Temple Israel of Long Beach, together with its Sisterhood, mourns the loss of our President Emeritus, past President, Trustee and member of more than 50 years. His inner beauty, strength and wisdom guided this institution througho
 ENO-Lawrence R.. The tenants, friends and Board of Directors of 173-175 Riverside Drive acknowledge with gratitude the many years of honorable and devoted service Larry Eno provided everyone in this building. We all send sincere sympathy to his family. The Board of Directors 173-175 Riversi
 FELDMAN-Irving. Beloved brother, father, grandfather and great grandfather. Passed away May 15, 1997. We shall miss him.       
 FOX-James M. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its Officers and Employees, mourn the passing of our Executive Vice President and respected Colleague Jim Fox. After his long and distinguished career with the FBI, we were proud and pleased that he joined our orga
 FRIEDEL-Irving. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, great grandfather, uncle and great uncle. Survived by his wife of 65 years, Dora; loving children, Celia & Charles Reiner, Dr. Walter and Dorothy Friedel; caring grandfather of the late Michael Reiner; and Eric, Rose and Donald Reiner, E
 GREENBERG-Bernard. Members of The Department of Pediatrics at Maimonides Medical Center note with regret the passing of a valued colleague. Dr. Greenberg was a force in The Department of Pediatrics as a distinguished Clinician and Teacher since his appointment in 1947. He was also active in
 HEIDE-The Right Reverend Monsignor Herman L. On May 17, 1997. Son of the late Herman L. and Gertrude Amend Heide. He is survived by his sisters Sister Muriel Heide, R.S.C.J. Kenwood, Albany, Constance H. Sullivan, Tequesta, FL, and Rumson, NJ, Ruth H. Kane, Glen Cove, NY, Anne H. Quigley, G
 KRIEG-John P. On May 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Mary L. Loving father of Mary E. and Alfred Pacheco, Barbara A. Krieg, John A. and Debra Krieg, Peggy M. Krieg, Kathy T. and Ronnie Rothenberg, James C. and Erica Kreig, Judy M. and Lee Reichert and Paul F. Krieg. Dear son of Anna V. Krieg a
 McNEILL-Charles James, 84. Publishing Executive and Doctor of Journalism. Beloved father of Sharon McGlynn. Died peacefully on May 16, at home in New York. Born in 1912 in Newton, KS, McNeill began his career in communications at the Register System of Catholic Newspapers in Denver, CO. Fro
 ROSS-Charles J. Beloved husband of Anita, devoted father of Dr. Robert (Dr. Linda), David, and the late Douglas. Loving son of Tessie. Dear brother of Stanley. Adored grandfather of Rachel and Danielle. Graduate of Columbia University and lifelong aerospace engineer. Services today, 12:45 P
 ROTHENBERG-Richard, Dr. On May 15, 1997. The entire Stuyvesant Family - students, staff, administration, alumni and parents, deeply mourn the sudden and untimely loss of their dear friend, teacher and colleague, Richard Rothenberg, Assistant Principal, Mathematics. A graduate, Class of 1963
 STULMAN-Julius. On May 17, age 91, longtime resident of Longboat Key, Florida. Founder of Lumber Exchange Terminal, Lumber Industries, Inc, and numerous other enterprises, he was not only an elder statesman of the lumber industry but one of the most creative and original thinkers of our tim
 WILLIAMS-Jay Coler, Jr. of Stony Brook, NY, died May 14, 1997 at Mather Hospital in Port Jefferson. He is survived by his wife, Marie-Angele Williams of Paris, France, by five children, Jennifer Williams Ketay and Jay Keith, both of New York City, from his first marriage to the late Barbara
 YOUNG-Alexander, MD. The medical staff and administration of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague, Alexander Young, MD. Dr. Young was a distinguished member of the Dermatology Department for over four decades and served as the first
 ZENDMAN-Peter. Peter died in Rome, Italy on April 28, 1997. He is survived by his sister Carol, his brother Buddy, his sister-in-law Jeanne, 5 nephews, 3 nieces-inlaw, 3 great nephews, 2 great nieces and his partner in Ogni Bene-Zendman, Sergio Ogni Bene. Rest in peace, little brother.     
 Richard E. Carlton, a lawyer who defended the Eastman Kodak Company in a landmark patent infringement case, died of a heart attack last Sunday while on vacation in Bath, England. He was 57. Mr. Carlton was with the New York law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell, which he joined in 1966 an
 Robert H. Krieble, a co-founder and former chief executive of the Loctite Corporation and a former vice chairman of the Heritage Foundation, the conservative policy research institute, died on May 8 at his home in Old Lyme, Conn. He was 80. Mr. Krieble, a chemist, founded Loctite wi
 Dana C. Creel, whose philanthropic hand helped mold the Rockefeller Brothers Fund into an eclectic charitable organization, died last Thursday night at his home, Haisdan Farm in Sharon, Conn. He was 84, said Fraser P. Seitel, an adviser to the Rockefeller family. Mr. Creel, 
 Frank Slocum, a former major league baseball executive and award-winning television writer who later devoted himself to aiding former players in need of financial assistance, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 71. The cause was cancer, according to his family.    
 BARON-Samuel. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Samuel Baron, distinguished member of the flute faculty since 1971 and chairman of the Woodwind Department for the past several years. His extraordinary artistry, his dedication to his students, and his exceptional creativity as an ar
 CREEL-Dana Shannon, 84, of Sharon, CT, died at his home on Haisdan Farm on May 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Jane Haislip Creel; brother of Virginia Creel Clark and uncle of David Clark. He graduated from Emory University, its Law School and the Harvard Business School, and served in the Cou
 EHRLICH-Dr. Herman. Of Hollywood, FL, formerly of Somerville, NJ. Passed away on May 15, 1997 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of 57 years of the late Lillian Ehrlich; adored and adoring father of Amy Tobin, Hollywood, and Joan Ehrlich-White, NY; loved and admired father-in-law of Jack Tob
 FOX-James Monroe. On May 16, 1997. Retired Assistant Director F.B.I. in charge of NY Office. A graduate of Augustana College and University of Illinois Law School. A resident of NYC and Carmel Valley, CA. Beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Sandra Cerdan and Tracey Van Every. Lovin
 MALLON-Thomas F., 53. Of Lake Forest, IL. Formerly of Long Island, NY. Died May 17, 1997. Born January 2, 1944 in NYC, NY. He was a member of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and past Treasurer of the Northbrook Sports Club. Husband of Bette Mallon. Father of Erin and the late Eileen Mallon 
 MURPHY-Michael J. May 17, 1997. Survived by three children, Patricia Howley and her husband James of Port Jefferson Station, Francis C. Murphy and his wife Ann Fenichel of Manhattan and Mary Ellen Quinn and her husband Patrick of Maine; daughterin-law Carole A. Murphy of Florida; and his si
 ROSEN-Seth Donald. 33, passed away in Wheaton, IL on May 17 of brain cancer. He is survived by his wife, Denise (Winsouer), his parents Marvin and Patricia Rosen of NYC, brother Michael and sister-in-law Wendy Jacobson Rosen of Northbrook, IL, brother Howard of NYC. In lieu of flowers, the 
 SHARZER-Edward. Of Brookline, MA. Husband of Mildred (Goodman). Father of Dr. Leonard A. Sharzer of NY, and Risa Nyman of Brookline, MA. Brother of Mollie Levitt of FL, and Esther Norris of RI. Cherished grandfather of Brenda, Pamela, Devora, Jessica and Rebecca. Also survived by six great-
 STULMAN-Julius. On May 17, age 91, longtime resident of Longboat Key, Florida. Founder of Lumber Exchange Terminal, Lumber Industries, Inc, and numerous other enterprises, he was not only an elder statesman of the lumber industry but one of the most creative and original thinkers of our tim
 Samuel Baron, a flutist and conductor who was a founding member of the New York Woodwind Quintet and the director of the Bach Aria Group, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. Mr. Baron was born in Brooklyn in 1925 and began his
 Allyn Zelton Baum, a retired editor, news photographer and writer, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 72 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Anne Trevor Brown, his companion. Mr. Baum, a native of Chicago, was a journalism gradua
 BARON-Samuel. The Yale University School of Music expresses its sincere sympathy to the family and friends of Sam Baron. A faculty member of the Yale Summer School of Music in Norfolk, CT and former faculty member of the Yale School of Music, his mentoring of flutists and chamber musicians 
 BARTLETT-David. Died May 13. Survived by his wife Stefane Abeille-Demay; his daughters Linda Miller, Victoria Donaldson and Stefane Bartlett; 4 granddaughters & his brother, Charles L. Bartlett. Memorial Mass, 4 P.M., Tuesday, May 20, at Saint Vincent Ferrer, 869 Lexington Avenue.       
 BUCKY-Dr. Peter A. President of Bucky X-Ray International Inc, passed away May 14, 1997 after a short illness. Mr. Bucky, who was 85, was pre-deceased by his wife Tina (nee McBurnie Bucky). He is survived by his son Peter R. of Endicott, New York, and his brother Dr. Thomas Lee and his sist
 COHEN-Edward S. Passed from us peacefully on May 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Joyce. Devoted father to Craig and Brett. A man who touched everyone he met. We will miss you big Ed, but your memory will always live.       
 CREEL-Dana S. We note with sadness the passing of Dana S. Creel, a dear friend, wise colleague, and thoughtful advisor. As first president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Dana practiced philanthropy with gracious style and visionary intellect, anticipating some of today's most pressing so
 FINKELSTEIN-Irving C., 98, of Bal Harbour, FL., passed away May 17, 1997. He is survived by daughter Mrs. Erna Finkelstein Kislak, Grandchildren; Todd (Nancy) Kislak, Marc (Lisa) Kislak and Michael (Linda) Fields, Great Grandchildren; Paul Fields, Michelle, Sarah and Sasha Kislak. Owner of 
 FOLDES-Francis F., M.D. On May 19, 1997. Loving husband of Edith. Father of Eva Travers, Judy Dickson, and Barbara Wolkowitz. Also survived by his sister Margit Salamon & grandchildren Amy, Jeffrey, David, Eva, Nick, Emily and Daniel. Services Wednesday, 10AM, ''The Riverside'', 76 Street a
 FOX-James M. The 35,000 members of the alumni, students, faculty and staff of John Jay College of Criminal Justice mourn the loss of James M. Fox, an admired law enforcement leader. A strong advocate for the professional development of law enforcement personnel to higher education, his cont
 HOUCK-James D., 42, Managing Director and Chief Administrative Officer of Lehman Brothers Japan, died April 26 at Wilcox Memorial Hospital on the island of Kauai, HI. The cause of death was cancer of the esophagus. James was born in Hartford, CT., and graduated from Colby College and from t
 JACOBS-Fred M., on May 18th, after a long illness. Loving and beloved husband of Judy; devoted father of Andrew, John, Marcie, Jeffrey and Susan; cherished grandfather of Rachel, Daniel and Michael; caring brother of Richard and loved by all. Service Tuesday, 3 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76t
 JOCKER-William. Died May 12th. A fervent fighter for economic reform, teacher at the Henry George School, an original thinker, man of great principle, author, dance devotee and music lover. We are greatly enriched by having known him. He will be sorely missed by David, Jeanne, Andrei, Steph
 JOHNSON-Francis Edgar, Jr. Age 84. Of Peapack, NJ and Marthas Vineyard, MA. Husband of Helena (Nee Edey), father of Cynthia J. MacKay, MD of Brooklyn, NY., Helena Bienstock of Princeton, NJ and Frank E. Johnson, III of New York City. Brother of Collister of Peapack, NJ and Robert deL of Lib
 KEINER-Charles H. Age 84, on May 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Richard and Lois. Dear brother of Milton. Served in the U.S. Navy in W.W. II in Northern Ireland. Retired attorney. We will miss him.       
 LEE-Benjamin F. Of Palm Beach, FL., and Scarsdale, NY. At the age of 88. Beloved husband of Doris S. Lee. Loving father of Bruce S. Lee of New City, N.Y., and Lawrence Lee of Scarsdale, NY. Cherished grandfather. Previously deceased by his first wife Ruth. A respected and loved member of th
 LEFKOWITZ-Louis of Long Beach, NY, suddenly on May 18, 1997. beloved husband of Rebecca. Devoted father of Judge Joel L. and Helen Lefkowitz, Marilyn and Stuart Troy. Cherished grandfather of Stephen, Edward and Richard Troy, Charles and Michael Lefkowitz, and Julie Mendik. Adored great gra
 LISCHIN-Sheldon H. of Boynton Beach Fl., formerly of NYC on Sunday May 18, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Lois Lischin. Loving father of Michael, Garry and his wife Laurie and the late Gerilyn Lischin. Devoted companion of Diane Rosenblum. Cherished grandfather of Malissa, Eliza, Jessica
 MICHAELS-Max. Born in Drohitchyn, Poland in 1905. Devoted husband to the late Ann (nee Wasserman). Loving father to Linda and Marty. Devoted grandfather and uncle. Max had a successful business career of 50 years with Farber Brothers in NYC. Former 21 year resident of Century Village, West 
 MURPHY-Michael J. The 35,000 members of the alumni, students, faculty and staff of John Jay College of Criminal Justice note with profound sorrow the passing of Michael J. Murphy, the first Acting President of John Jay College of Criminal Justice and the pioneering law enforcement leader. A
 RIFKIN-Dr. Harold. After a long illness. Adored husband to Bibi. Beloved father to Janet, Matthew, and Phyllis. Devoted grandfather to six wonderful grandsons. Funeral private. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. Distinguished and dedicated physicia
 RUBINROTH-Martin J. May 19, 1997. Loving husband of Lee. Devoted father of Susan and Robert Leonard. Loving grandfather of Chloe and Carly. Services Tuesday, 10 AM, at Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills, NY. RUBINROTH-Martin J. The death of our es
 SAIDENBERG-Daniel. The Juilliard School mourns the loss of Daniel Saidenberg. A distinguished alumnus of the School, he enjoyed an extraordinary career as a cello soloist and chamber musician, conductor and vibrant supporter of young artists. Through his generosity The Juilliard School and 
 SCHULSON-Hyman Abraham. On May 19, 1997. Husband of Ruth Hendricks Schulson. Father of David and Sheree Schulson, Henry and Rachel Schulson and Anne Stephen Young. Grandfather of Lorree, Jaimee, Molly, Michael, Leah, Jason and Daniel. Brother of Florence Mayer, Evelyn Garfinkel and the late
 STULMAN-Julius. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of a generous philanthropist and expresses its heartfelt condolences to his son Stephen, longtime committed supporter of the Institute, distinguished member of the ACWIS Board of Directors, past 
 WEISSGLASS-Bennett. Died on May 11, 1997 at age 73. A physician specializing in internal medicine. He lived and practiced in Morristown, New Jersey since 1955. Born in Brooklyn he graduated Stamford University and the University of Oregon Medical School. He completed his residencies and int
 Aaron E. Henry, the gruff, blunt-speaking pharmacist who led the drive for racial equality in Mississippi all the way from the fire storms of the 1960's to a seat in the State Legislature and a position of power in the Democratic Party, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Clarksda
 Nathan R. Sobel, a beloved Brooklyn lawyer, judge and adviser to several state political leaders whose career spanned seven decades, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 91. The cause was complications from an adverse reaction to medication for gout, a 
 BARON-Samuel. The Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College mourns the untimely passing of our esteemed and dearly loved colleague Samuel Baron. He was truly irreplaceable as an artist, teacher and person. As founding member of the New York Woodwind Quintet he was responsible more tha
 BAUM-Allyn Z., died Saturday May 17, of cancer. He is survived by a family of close friends including Anne Trevor Brown. A memorial service will be held on Tuesday, June 3rd at the All Souls Unitarian Church, 80th Street and Lexington Avenue at 3 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions to th
 CARRIG-Randy, 42, passed away May 19, 1997, due to complications from AIDS. Survived by his parents Peg & Dave Carrig; brothers Steven, David, and Jim; sisterin-law Barbara; niece Steffanie; and longtime companion Peter Straus. Visitation at Redden's Funeral Home, 325 West 14 Street, N.Y., 
 FIDELMAN-Fima, 91. Concert violinist. The last of a family of illustrious musicians who emigrated to the United States from Tiflis, Georgia in the early part of the century. Student of the eminent pedagogue Leopold Auer. Graduated with honors from the Juilliard School. First violinist WQXR.
 FOLDES-Francis F., M.D. The Chairman, faculty and members of the entire Dept. of Anesthesiology are very deeply saddened by the death of Francis F. Foldes, M.D., Chairman Emeritus of Montefiore's Dept. of Anesthesiology. Dr. Foldes, Montefiore's first Chairman of Anesthesiology was a dedica
 FOX-James M. It is with our deepest sorrow that the Directors, Officers and Employees of the Dime Savings Bank of Williamsburgh mourn the passing of our friend and Director, James M. Fox. We extend our sympathy to his wife, Elaine, and their entire family. We will miss him greatly. The Dime
 HUROWITZ-Jacob, M.D. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Devoted father of Stephen, Donald and Laura. Proud grandfather of Peter, Aaron, Kate, Danny, Noah and Mike Hurowitz, Alex, Eric and Rachel Sherman. Brother of Murray and Irving Harrow. He lived and died in peace and with dignity. Grave
 JACOBS-Fred M., on May 18th, after a long illness. Loving and beloved husband of Judy; devoted father of Andrew, John, Marcie, Jeffrey and Susan; cherished grandfather of Rachel, Daniel and Michael; caring brother of Richard and loved by all. Service Tuesday, 3 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76t
 LEFKOWITZ-Louis L. The Board of Trustees, the Medical Staff and the Auxiliaries of Long Beach Medical Center record with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague and Past President, Louis L. Lefkowitz. For forty-five years he served our medical center with honor and distinction
 MORGENSTERN - Stanley, on May 19, 1997, formerly of New York. Loving husband of Collette. Devoted father of Raymond. Beloved son of Rose and the late Raymond. Adored brother of Penny Lamove and brother-in-law of Michael Lamove. Also survived by his sister-in-law Donna Materasso and brother-
 RIFKIN-Dr. Harold. After a long illness. Adored husband to Bibi. Beloved father to Janet, Matthew, and Phyllis. Devoted grandfather to six wonderful grandsons. Funeral private. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. RIFKIN-Harold, MD. We at NYU Medical Center are deeply s
 SCHORR-Rabbi Seymour, on May 17, 1997 (Shabbos). Precious darling husband of Audrey for 41 years. Most beloved father of Nanette and Ira, son-in-law Peter, daughter-in-law Bonnie, and sister Ruth Heller. He loved Hashem as no other has loved Hashem and, following his ordination from Rabbein
 SOBEL-Honorable Nathan R. The Officers, Trustees and members of the Brooklyn Bar Association mourn the passing of the Honorable Nathan R. Sobel, past Surrogate of Kings County and past Trustee of this Association. More than a leader and supporter of the organized bar, Judge Sobel by act and
 WALLIS-William J., of Rockville Centre, L.I., on May 20, 1997 at age 80. Beloved husband of Helen M. Brother of Leslye Perry and esteemed uncle of eleven nieces and nephews. He retired as Vice President and Secretary of the Executive Committee of Macy's. An honor graduate in 1938 of Emory a
 Troy Ruttman, a Southern California hot-rodder who in 1952 became the youngest driver to win the Indianapolis 500, died on Monday in Lake Havasu City, Ariz. He was 67. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter Roxanne Holland said. Ruttman checked into Havasu Samaritan Regional Hospit
 Bernard Louis Gladieux, a Federal official who helped mobilize the country for World War II, went on to advise a succession of Cabinet secretaries and later helped build the Ford Foundation into a major global benefactor, died on Sunday at his home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 90 and a former r
 Daniel Saidenberg, a cellist, conductor and art gallery owner who supported an annual series of faculty recitals at the Juilliard School, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Saidenberg was born in 1906 in Winnipeg, Canada, and began his performing career, accompa
 Donald Irwin Warren, a sociologist who studied and wrote about alienation in America, died last Saturday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He would have been 62 this Saturday. The cause was a brain tumor, said Prof. Peter Bertocci, a colleague at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.
 Gordon Wies Reed of Greenwich, Conn., who for 22 years was chairman of the Texas Gulf Producing Company, an independent oil and gas concern, died on Saturday after a brief illness, said his son, Thomas, a former Secretary of the Air Force. He was 97. Mr. Reed was an early supporter 
 John Spencer-Churchill Guest, a retired investment banker who wrote about the Middle East, died on May 14 at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 84 and also lived in Fishers Island, N.Y. Mr. Guest, a native of London, graduated from Cambridge University and received an M.B.A. from 
 BARON-Samue. With warmest memories of Sam Baron, facultyartist of the Yale Summer School of Music/Norfolk Chamber Music Festival. His dedication and artistry leave an indelible mark on our chamber music world.       
 CREEL-Dana S. The Board of Directors and the staff of Boscobel Restoration, Inc. express their sincere sympathy on the death of Dana Creel, for many years a director, a friend, and an advisor. His wise counsel in the areas of restoration and preservation will be sorely missed by Boscobel an
 GREENSTEIN-Benjamin. Beloved husband of Betty. Devoted father of Herbert and Myrna. Loving grandfather of Jonathan and Graham. Passed away May 20, 1997. He will be loved and remembered.       
 HIRSCH-Sherman Z., of Wesley Hills, NY died Saturday, May 17, 1997, he was 75. Mr. Hirsch was born on Sept. 20, 1921 in the Bronx to Benjamin and Frieda Hirsch. He was a resident of Rockland County since 1956. Mr. Hirsch graduated from NYU in 1941. He served for 3.5 years in the Navy during
 LEE-Benjamin F. On May 18, 1997. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and business associate. He epitomized the best of traditions of our people. He was kind and compassionate to all. He was a true ''Mentsch.'' His warmth will always be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his
 MAHLKE-Philip A., of Bricktown, formerly of Flushing, N.Y. on May 16, 1997. He was employed by N.Y.C. Police Dept for 40 years, Chief Clerk for 5 years before retiring in 1972. Beloved husband of the late Esther. Devoted father of Philip R. and Linda Steel. Brother of Raymond and Elsa Morga
 PETIGROW-Norman, MD. We note with sorrow the passing of a highly respected colleague. As a dedicated Family Practice physician at North Shore University Hospital at Plainview, he served our community members with skill and compassion. His expertise will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympa
 RIFKIN-Harold, MD. We at NYU Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our colleague and dear friend, Dr. Harold Rifkin, Professor of Clinical Medicine. He was a giant among physicians who were the elite of clinical researchers and stood out as a leader in the academic community 
 SOBEL-Hon. Nathan R. The Feiden family mourns the death of Nat Sobel. In addition to a life of extraordinary public service as a judge, surrogate, counsel to Governor Herbert H. Lehman, to Constitutional Conventions, he was the most unselfish, helpful person I have known. Murray T. Feiden  
 SOBEL-Nathan R. A giant of a man. A warm, spirited and brilliant judge. He had patience and understanding and treated all who came before him with respect and dignity. We will miss his smile and that cigar always in hand. Seymour D. Reich       
 Virgilio Barco, an American-educated former President of Colombia whose dream of combatting rampant poverty with land reform and other ambitious social measures was sidetracked by an American-backed civil war with powerful drug barons, died Tuesday at a hospital in Bogota.  He was 75 and ha
 Myron Ruscoll Sharaf, biographer and interpreter of Wilhelm Reich, the Austrian-born psychiatrist and biophysicist, with whom he had an agonizingly complex personal relationship, died on May 13 while on a  trip to Europe. He was 70 and lived in Newton Highlands, Mass. Dr. Sharaf, a 
 Elbridge Durbrow, a retired Foreign Service officer who served in Moscow as the wartime Soviet ally turned into cold-war antagonist and who later led the United States Embassy in South Vietnam at the onset of America's longest war, died last Friday at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif.       
 Herbert W. Hoover Jr., a former chairman of the Hoover Company, the vacuum cleaner maker that his grandfather founded at the turn of the century, died on Monday in Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach. He lived in Bal Harbour, Fla., and was 79. Starting with summer jobs on the assemb
 BOGAN-Eugene W. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of our dear friend and dedicated Trustee, Eugene Bogan. We will miss his exuberance, energy, humor and his devotion to his wife Charmain and his daughter Eushavia and to the well being of our school. The Trustees & Staff of t
 DE GRASSE-Charles Ira, 74, died on Wednesday, May 21 at his late Jenkintown, PA residence. Mr. de Grasse is survived by his mother, Mildred Goulding O'Connell (Hyannis, MA) and two sisters, Eleanor de Grasse McCue (Kissimmee, FL) and Irene de Grasse Valenti (Woburn, MA), five nieces and fou
 HERSHEY-Alfred Day. With great sadness, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory reports the death of Alfred D. Hershey. Dr. Hershey earned the Nobel Prize in 1969 for work he did in the 1950s at the Carnegie Institution of Washington Department of Genetics at Cold Spring Harbor, where he worked from 
 KRAMARIC-Peter S., 67, formerly of New York City and Wilton, CT, died Wednesday, May 21, 1997 at Wake Robin surrounded by his family following a courageous battle with cancer. He was born April 29, 1930 in Ljubljana, Slovenia, the son of Stefan and Ana (Vidic) Kramaric. He was raised in Slo
 LEAHY-Michael G. (Gerry), on May 21, 1997, age 80. Devoted husband of Elizabeth (Lily). Beloved father of Geraldine, Thomas, Anne Elizabeth (deceased), Frances and Michael. Survived by his sister, Katherine Colleran, and many nieces and nephews, particularly Jack. Loving father-in-law of Mi
 RUBINROTH-Martin. The Officers, Trustees and members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the untimely death of Martin Rubinroth, former Synagogue Vice President, Trustee and former Ritual Committee Chairman. May his memory always be a source of blessing and may his family be granted com
 SAIDENBERG-Daniel. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague who, with his wife Eleanore, have been the principals of the Saidenberg Gallery since 1950. A man of many talents, he was a great musician and an important dealer in great works of 
 SCHWARTZ-Eugene J. Devoted and beloved husband of Florence. Loving father of Carolyn Rimberg, Allan C. Schwartz and Nancy Weiner. Grandfather of Matthew, Jonathan, Alexander, Gregory, Katherine-Anne and Annabel. Funeral services at the Jewish Community Center of Harrison, Union Avenue, Harr
 SHERIN-Arthur H., Jr. of Hopewell Junction, died May 22, 1997. He was a retired advertising sales executive for CBS Publishing and a former elder of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. Beloved husband of Flora DeBenedetto Sherin and father of Suzanne Lopiano, Deborah Pell and Bonnie Kollm
 SOBEL-Hon. Nathan R. The Feiden family mourns the death of Nat Sobel. In addition to a life of extraordinary public service as a judge, surrogate, counsel to Governor Herbert H. Lehman, two Constitutional Conventions, he was the most unselfish, helpful person I have known. Murray T. Feiden 
 WEISS-Jerome A. On May 21, 1997. Beloved husband of his devoted wife Ellen. Loving father of Dr. Michael A. Dear father-in-law of Katherine. Devoted brother-inlaw, uncle and grand-uncle. Graduate of Columbia University and Fordham Law School. Proud recipient of an award by the Brooklyn Bar 
 Thomas F. Mallon Jr., a finance executive and trader who specialized in foreign currency futures and options, died of melanoma on Saturday in Lake Forest, Ill., his wife, Bette, said. He was 53. Mr. Mallon was a senior vice president in the Chicago office of Rodman & Renshaw Inc., a
 Dr. Alfred D. Hershey, who used a household blender to do experiments that made him a Nobel laureate by proving that DNA is the molecule that carries genetic information,  died on Thursday at his home in Syosset, N.Y. He was 88. Dr. Hershey, who did much of his work at the Cold Spri
 Fletcher Guard Watson, an astronomer and educator whose innovative methods took science subjects to a wider audience, died on May 7 at the Youville Nursing Home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Belmont and North Eastham, Mass. Born in Baltimore, he graduated from Pomona Co
 BYARS-James Lee, internationally renowned artist whose work concentrated on minimal hermetic forms, reduction towards essence and absence, and an acute sense of the ephemeral, died on Thursday, May 23, 1997, at the Anglo-American hospital in Cairo, Egypt. He was 65 years old and his primary
 KORNFELD-Magda Ranschburg. On May 22, 1997, age 94. Of Medford, NJ. Wife of the late Dr. Werner Kornfeld, mother of Alice Buskin of Woodbridge, N.J., and Henry and his wife Sylvia of East Norwich, New York. Seven grandchildren, 7 great grandchildren. Numerous cousins, nieces and nephews. Se
 MARKS-Arthur D. The officers, fellow board members, and staff of The Jewish Guild for the Blind note with sorrow the passing of Arthur D Marks. Mr. Marks was the father of Andrew Marks, our esteemed colleague and long time board member of The Guild. We extend our deepest sympathy to Andy an
 PHILLIPS-John H. Psychoanalyst, died of natural causes on the weekend of May 10 at his apartment in Murray Hill. He was 76 and had practiced continuously in Manhattan since 1962. He continued to emphasize long-term, indepth treatment, often reducing fees. He was devoted to his patients, man
 SCHWARTZ-Eugene J. The partners, associates and staff of Podell, Rothman, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of Gene Schwartz, our dear friend and colleague. A founding father in the law of tax assessment review, Gene will be missed by all who have benefited from his wisdom and foresight. 
 SOBEL-Nathan R. The Surrogates Association of the State of New York mounrs the loss of our loved sui generis mentor and advisor. His writings and legacy will guide us in our decisions. He will be dearly missed. Hon. Angelo Lomanto, President Hon. C. Raymond Radigan, Chair       
 YOUNG-Alexander W. The New York Dermatological Society notes with deep regret the passing of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Alexander W. Young, M.D. on May 10, 1997. Dr. Young was the first Director of the Dermatology Service at St. Luke's Hospital until he resigned in 1995. He also wa
 PIERCE-Halil Alexander. In loving memory of our dear friend Halil Alexander Pierce, a Memorial Service will be held on Wednesday, May 28, 1997, at I Tre Merli, 463 West Broadway from 6-8 P.M. His Friends       
 Barry Bryant, a writer on Tibetan Buddhism who was also an artist, died on May 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 56. The cause was renal cell cancer, his companion, Gregory Durgin, said. Mr. Bryant was a painter and musician strongly influenced by Tibetan Buddhism. In 1973
 Frederick Werle, a composer and former dean of the Mannes College of Music, died on May 15 at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 87. Mr. Werle studied composition with Nadia Boulanger in Paris, with Rosario Scalero in Italy and at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. He also had d
 George Lessner, a composer who wrote music for films, television and the stage, died on May 12 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 92. Mr. Lessener was born in Budapest, where he graduated from the Royal Academy of Music after studying with Zoltan Kodaly and Bela Bartok. He wro
 ATHA-Stuart K., Jr., on Friday, May 23, at home in Valley Cottage, NY. He was 71. Mr. Atha retired as a Senior Vice President from the Chemical Bank Co. Before joining Chemical he worked for Hanover Bank. He was a graduate of the Woodberry Forest School and received a BA from Princeton Univ
 BABSON-Donald P., of Wellesley, Massachusetts; on April 21, 1997. He was 73. Husband of the late Susan (Averill) Babson. He is survived by 5 children: Averill Babson & her husband Gregory E. Sohns of Darien, CT, Paul Talbot Babson, II of Needham, MA, James A. Babson and his wife Asoka Banda
 COHEN-Edward S., passed away May 17, 1997. The Cohen family notes with great sorrow the sudden passing of our beloved Eddie. Loving husband of Joyce. Devoted father of Craig and Brett, and daughter-in-law, Sandy. Brother of Philip and wife, Debbie. Uncle of Lisa, Justin and Adam. All who kn
 DELSON-Robert. An international lawyer who devoted his life to the betterment of his fellow man, first as theoretician of the American Socialist Party, with Norman Thomas in the 1930's, later in his work with Americans for Democratic Action, The International League for the Rights of Man, T
 FOWLER-Robert G., formerly of Lattingtown and New York City, died of heart failure on May 20, 1997 in Jacksonville, FL. A 1941 graduate of Cornell University, Mr. Fowler spent his career in the apparel industry in New York. Mr. Fowler was awarded the Silver Star for heroism in World War II.
 GOLDSTEIN - Robert. Beloved husband of Myrtle. Devoted father of the late Richard. Cherished grandfather of Claire Womack and Aaron Goldstein. Adored brother of Lil Gurian. He will be sorely missed. Services today, 11 AM, at Old Montefiore Cemetery at Springfield Blvd., St. Albans, NY.     
 MARKS-Arthur D. Jr. Corporate insurance broker in New York City, on May 23, 1997. Husband of late Alice Oppenheimer Marks, loving father of Arthur D. Marks III, Edith M. Seligson, Andrew H. Marks, & the late Alice M. Preston, step-father of John Oppenheimer, Ellen Oasis, and Joan Samuelson.
 NEUWIRTH-Paul. 76, of Irvington, NY, on May 23, 1997, during a hospital procedure. For many years he lived a full and active life despite serious illnesses. He will be remembered as the beloved husband of Ruth, loving father of Jack and Donald, grandfather of Benjamin, brother of Deborah an
 SCHWARTZ-Eugene J. We note with profound sorrow the passing of the founder and leader our our law firm, Eugene J. Schwartz. An outstanding trial lawyer, a great intellect, an exceptional human being. For more than fifty years, he was our guiding force, our inspiration and our strength. We a
 STERNLICHT-Lillian, May 22. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Bernstein and the late Leo Sternlicht. Loving step-mother of Lenore Lerner. Loving aunt of Thomas Gutterman and his wife Lee. Service Tuesday, 4 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 TANG-Clifton C., of Tenafly, NJ, and Rancho Mirage, CA, on May 15, 1997. Retired attorney and former electrical engineer. Member of New Jersey State Bar, Federal Bar of New Jersey, American Bar Association, American Judicature Society. Survived by his wife, Dr. Yu Shang Chang; his sons, Den
 TRAIN-George J., M.D. On May 24, 1997. 1934 graduate of NYU Medical College, Associate Psychiatrist at Maimonides Hospital and attending at Gracie Square Hospital, Clinical Assistant Professor at Downstate Medical Center. Chairman of Post Graduate Studies of Brooklyn Psychiatric Society, Li
 WOLFERMAN-Adolph, M.D. On May 22, 1997. Husband of the late Pierrette Wolferman and adored husband of Irene Schleider Wolferman. Dear father of Mark (Cathy), Eric (Patricia) and Sondra. Beloved grandfather of Brian, Cassie, Benjamin, Joann and Anna Wolferman, Alex, David, Jacob, Jessica and
 LUBALIN-Herb F. 16 years. His talent and wit live in his work, as does his person in my mind and heart. Rhoda Sparber Lubalin       
 GOLDSMITH-Bernard Morton, a businessman and inventor died in his home on May 9. Bernard was born in New Brunswick, NJ in 1916 and graduated from Rutgers University in 1937 with a Degree in Electrical Engineering. A pioneer in his field he holds several patents in the electronic industry. He
 JOHNSTON-Daniel H., Jr., passed into the hands of God on Friday, May 23, 1997, after a courageous battle with cancer. He is preceded in death by his parents Daniel H. Johnston and Mary Pauline Glenney Johnston. He is survived by his loving wife of 20 years, Kathryn Herzog Johnston; his moth
 The Rev. Dr. Samuel DeWitt Proctor, a preacher, educator and former pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, died on Thursday at Mercy Medical Center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He was 75 and lived in Somerset, N.J. The cause was a heart attack he suffered on Wednesday, The Ass
 John Canfield Ewers, ethnologist emeritus of the Smithsonian Institution, historian of the West and chronicler of the Plains Indians, died on May 7 at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. A resident of Arlington, he was 87. Mr. Ewers was one of the country's foremost interpreters of
 Joseph X. Dever, a retired journalist who covered the social scene in New York and Philadelphia, died on May 10 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 77 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Marian B. Javits, a friend. Mr. Dever graduated
 BABSON-Donald P., of Wellesley, Massachusetts; on April 21, 1997. He was 73. Husband of the late Susan (Averill) Babson. He is survived by 5 children: Averill Babson & her husband Gregory E. Sohns of Darien, CT, Paul Talbot Babson, II of Needham, MA, James A. Babson and his wife Asoka Banda
 GUTTENPLAN-Seymour, 73, of Weston, FL. Formerly of Valley Stream, LI. Passed away May 26, 1997. He was the Founder and President of Tele-Wire Corp. and the past President of Congregation Tree of Life, Valley Stream. A veteran of World War II serving in the Army, he is survived by his wife o
 MARKS-Arthur D. Jr. Corporate insurance broker in New York City, on May 23, 1997. Husband of late Alice Oppenheimer Marks, loving father of Arthur D. Marks III, Edith M. Seligson, Andrew H. Marks, & the late Alice M. Preston, step-father of John Oppenheimer, Ellen Oasis, and Joan Samuelson.
 MEREN-Jan. On Sunday, May 25. Of Irvington, NY and Becket, MA. Age 60. Cherished husband of 25 years to Roslyn Yasser. Devoted father to Peter and Andrew. Dear son-in-law of Esther and Mac Yasser. Loving brother-in-law to Sandra and Alan Friedman, Nan and Alan Yasser. Uncle to David, Jonath
 QUANTRELL-Morton, 75, of Camden, ME., at New Haven, CT., on May 21, 1997. Survived by wife, Elizabeth (MacNeille) and children, Anne Dennen, Tom Quantrell, JoAnn Pettengill and Jerry Quantrell, eight grandchildren, two great grandchildren and longtime friend, Karen Hoedtke. Graduate Choate 
 THRESHMAN-Norman R. General insurance agent for NRT & Co., Inc. of Jersey City, N.J. Died May 24, 1997 in Callicoon, NY. Survived by his wife, Jeanette Nolet Threshman, 3 daughters: Dorothy Davies, Janet Threshman, and Nancy Eschenberg, eight grandchildren and 5 great grandchildren.       
 WINN-Gilbert E., D.D.S., age 62. Beloved husband of Eleanor, devoted father of Mitchell & Maxine, Tracey and Robert, cherished grandfather of Amanda, Alison, Jason and Benjamin. Cherished brother of Dr. Stephen L. and Carolyn Winn, dear brother-in-law of Richard, Michael and Joanne Fleischm
 PIERCE-Halil Alexander. In loving memory of our dear friend Halil Alexander Pierce, a Memorial Service will be held on Wednesday, May 28, 1997, at I Tre Merli, 463 West Broadway from 6-8 P.M. His Friends       
 Alan Harrington, a novelist whose output ranged from black humor to social criticism to chronicles of the heart, died on Friday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 79. The cause was leukemia, The Arizona Daily Star reported. The paper said his friends included Jack Kerouac, who visi
 Edward Mulhare, an Irish-born actor who was a suave, handsome presence on the American stage and in films and television for four decades, died on Saturday at his home in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 74. The cause was lung cancer, said Pegge Forrest, his publicist and  friend. Te
 BABSON-Donald P., of Wellesley, Massachusetts; on April 21, 1997. He was 73. Husband of the late Susan (Averill) Babson. He is survived by 5 children: Averill Babson & her husband Gregory E. Sohns of Darien, CT, Paul Talbot Babson, II of Needham, MA, James A. Babson and his wife Asoka Banda
 COHEN-Nathaniel, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the passing of their longtime colleague and friend. Dr. Cohen joined the staff in 1956 and for over 30 years distinguished himself as teacher and clinician. Devoted to his patients as individuals whom he cared for with experti
 DUNCAN-Kenneth W., 92 years young, died May 25, at Mary Manning Walsh Home. He brought beauty to life wherever he lived. Turtle Pond is his living memorial, the realization of his dreams as an architectural designer and visionary. As display director and visual merchandiser for forty years,
 EIDELHEIT-Joel Passed away on Monday night May 26, 1997 at the age of 52 from a 6 month bout with cancer. He leaves his loving wife Ita, his daughters Elyse and Cyd and his sister Barbara Ingber. Service will be Wednesday at 10:45am at ''Gutterman's'' in Rockville Centre, NY.       
 FELDMAN-Chester. We have lost our dear friend. Chester was a man of humor, intelligence and sensitivity. He was a joy to know. Naomi Beck Madeline and Jack Freedman Rita, Vincent, Melissa Merendino FELDMAN-Chester. Our hearts go out to his loving and devoted family. We have loss a d
 HADDAD-John G., Jr., MD. The Paget Foundation for Paget's Disease of Bone and Related Disorders mourns the sudden loss of our dear Board member and Chairman of our Advisory Medical Panel, Dr. John G. Haddad, Jr. We will miss his great commitment and dedication to the Foundation and the pati
 KAPLAN-Dr. Paul, age 67 of Boynton Beach, FL. Reputed scientist in ocean engineering. Published more than 100 scientific research papers. Associated with Stevens Institute of Technology, full Professor at Penn State University and Virginia Tech. Survived by his beloved wife Evelyn and sons 
 KLEINMAN-Gershon. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Dr. Eli Kleinman on the loss of his beloved father, Gershon. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 LUDSIN-Samuel, passed away peacefully on May 26, 1997 in Boca Raton, FL, formerly from Clifton, NJ. Beloved husband of Sonja, cherished father of Debra (Mark) Gladstone and Steven A. and adored grandfather of Alexandra, Andrew and Marisa. He was a one in a million person loved by all who kn
 MacKINNON-Alan D., May 24, at age 49. He devoted his adult years to helping handicapped children participate more fully in life. His gentle warmth and professional skill touched many lives and will be fondly remembered. Son of the late Gladys and Gladstone MacKinnon of Hyde Park in Boston. 
 PERLMAN-Sidney. On May 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Claire. Devoted father of James and Ariane Mindling, Toni and Stuart Young and John and Maxine Perlman and loving grandfather of Mitchell, Ann, Betsy, Sam and Natasha. He was President of Adams & Co Real Estate. He was very active in Jewis
 SOLOWAY-Alan M., of Boynton Beach, FL; formerly of Merrick, NY and Cliffside Park, NJ, age 83. He will always be loved and remembered by his family for his spiritual contribution to their lives, his gentleness, kindness and inner strength. Beloved husband of Mildred, loving father of Richar
 WERLE-Frederick C. Mannes College of Music notes with deep regret the passing on May 15, 1997 of Frederick C. Werle, a pupil of Robert Casadesus and Nadia Boulanger who fulfilled many administrative positions at Mannes between 1953 and 1976 and taught there over an even longer period of tim
 WINN-Dr. Gilbert. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. mourns the passing of our beloved member Dr. Gilbert Winn and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Eleanor and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Philip Adler, President       
 TOMLINSON-Forrest. A Memorial Service for Forrest Tomlinson will be held on Thursday, May 29, 1997, at 4:30PM at St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th St. and Park Ave., New York, N.Y. Reception following service. Donations in his memory to Hospice of Martha's Vineyard, Oak Bluffs, MA 02557.      
 Thurston B. Macauley, a journalist whose assignments included seven years as a London correspondent for The New York Times, died on Saturday during a visit to Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 95. A resident of Maidenhead, England, and Villefranche-sur-Mer, France, he began his career as
 The Rev. William T. Cunningham, a Roman Catholic priest who became a leading Detroit civil rights advocate and  founder of one of the nation's largest programs to feed and train the urban poor, died here on Monday. He was 67. The cause was pneumonia and a liver infection that follow
 David M. Ludlum, a scholar who never lost his boyhood delight in the magic of snow, died on Friday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 86 and the nation's foremost historian of American weather. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said. Mr. Ludlum's brig
 Dr. John G. Haddad Jr., an endocrinologist who created the standard test for vitamin D levels in the blood, died in Paris on May 22 while on his way to a medical meeting. He was 59 and lived in Philadelphia. The cause was a heart attack, family members said. Dr. Haddad was a
 Mohd Fadhel al-Jamali, an Arab statesman who helped establish the United Nations and the Arab League and was nearly hanged for his Western leanings after the revolution in Iraq in 1958, died in exile in Tunisia last Saturday. He was 94. A graduate of American University in Beirut an
 ADLER-Kurt, PhD, M.D., on May 28, 1997 in New York City. The faculty and staff of The Alfred Adler Institute and The Alfred Adler Mental Health Center and Community Consultation Center as well as the students of the Institute, mourn the loss of our esteemed teacher and friend, loyal son of 
 FELDMAN-Chester. Our hearts go out to his loving and devoted family. We have lost a dear person and a good friend. Norman and Gloria Barasch       
 KARRIS-Martin. The Ocean Bay Park Association sadly notes the passing of its member. We willmiss our dear friend Marty, who had a marvelous sense of humor, and who was a kind, sensitive, gentle man, who nurtured his garden and our community.       
 MARACHE-Herbert W., Jr. Beloved husband and father, died May 28, 1997 in Greenwich, CT. Born in Brooklyn, NY and educated at St. Paul's School and Yale College. He is survived by five children: Nina M. King, Victoria B. Marache, Eugenie M. Pavelic, Herbert W. Marache, III and Mark A. Marach
 PORTER-Steven D. With our love and prayers we sadly announce that Steven passed away at his family's residence on Monday, May 26, 1997. He peacefully left with loving memories. Steven is the beloved son of Betty and the late John C. Porter, dear brother of Judith A. (Russell) Lipp, Carol L.
 RAYBURN-Dr. John W., died on May 28, 1997, in Plainview, MN, from the toll taken by Alzheimer's Disease, degenerative palsy, and multiple strokes. A founding member of Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, NY, Dr. Rayburn was Professor of Music and Fine Arts and choral conductor there from 1961-199
 SILBER-George, age 89, peacefully, on May 28, 1997. Devoted husband of 61 years of Lillian. Beloved father of Richard, Barbara and Marian. Loving grandfather of Laura, Lynne and Jason. Dear brother of the late Victor and Estelle. Cherished uncle and greatuncle. Adored ''boss man'' of Corrin
 SONN-Edward. Died May 24, 1997 in CA, born Oct 2, 1905 in NJ. He served on the NYPD Detective Squad under Dist. Atty Thomas E. Dewey. Survived by his son; Eric, daughter; Ellen Grantham, sisters; Betty Sonn and Ida Perkel of NY, two grandchildren and two great grandchildren.       
 STRONG-S. James, on May 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Penelope. Loving father of James S. Dear brother of Stelios Strongelis. Reposing Krtil FH 1297 1st Ave, NYC Sat 7-9 PM, Sun 2-4, 7-9 PM. Funeral Services Holy Trinity Greek Cathedral 319 E 74 St. Mon 10 AM. Interment Cypress Hills Cemeter
 SVENNINGSEN-John A. John A. Svenningsen, President and Chairman of the Board of Amscan Holdings, Inc. with headquarters in Elmsford, N.Y. died on May 28, 1997. Taking a small business from the family garage in 1960, he built a world-wide enterprise of manufacuturing and distributing party g
 WALTIER-Richard H., M.D., F.A.C.S., L.M.C.C., 86 yrs, May 21, 1997. Richard H. Waltier, M.D. graduated from Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (1937). He was a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons (1952 to 1997), Diplomate of the American Board of Abdomin
 Ralph Horween, the oldest former National Football League player and a fullback for the unbeaten Harvard team that won the 1920 Rose Bowl, died Monday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 100. He played in the backfield for the Chicago Cardinals from 1921 to 1923, teaming up w
 James Lee Byars, an American performance and installation artist whose idiosyncratic, Zen-influenced blendings of Minimal and Conceptual art stressed questions over answers, absence over presence and a lush momentary experience of beauty over permanence, died on May 23 at the Anglo-American
 John H. Sengstacke, the outspoken longtime owner of The Chicago Daily Defender and a tight-lipped perennial power in Chicago and national politics, died on Wednesday at a Chicago hospital. He was 84. His family said the cause was complications of a stroke. Mr. Sengstacke was
 Kurt Alfred Adler, a therapist who spent a career seeking to put into practice the novel approach to psychotherapy of his father, Alfred Adler, the Viennese psychiatrist, and to extend its reach, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Adler w
 J. Rembrandt George, an advertising executive who was instrumental in introducing the elongated, pyramid-like plasticized billboards that sit on top of many of New York City's taxicabs, died on May 23 at St. Anthony's Hospital in Warwick, N.Y., after a brief illness, his daughter, Linda Geo
 John W. Livingston, the first organizing director of the A.F.L-C.I.O. and a longtime senior official in the United Automobile Workers, died on May 25 in Westphalia, Mo. He was 88. Mr. Livingston, who was commonly called Jack, began organizing auto workers in 1933 when the U.A.W. was
 ADLER-Kurt A., MD, Phd. The Advanced Institute for Analytic Psychotherapy and the Advanced Center for Psychotherapy note with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Kurt Adler. For many years he was President and Dean of Psychiatric Studies of the Institute and Medical Director 
 LEHMANN-Manfred R., Dr. Beloved husband of Sara Anne. Cherished father of the late Jamie, Barbie and Yitzchok Siegel, Karie and David Eisner, and Marcia Herschmann. Adored grandfather of Russie, Jackie, Joshie, and Jason. Survived by his dear brothers Bert and Erik Lehmann. Oh, how the migh
 O'BRIEN-Royall D. On May 30, 1997 at age 70. Beloved husband of Sally, loving father of Morgan Coffey and Sarah Tierney. He is also survived by eight grandchildren, his mother Isabel B. O'Brien and a brother Peter B. O'Brien. His humor and warm heart will be deeply missed. In lieu of flower
 WALTNER-Jules, M.D. A dear old friend and brilliant clinician. We will miss him. Eva and Raffaele Lattes       
 William Henry McNichols Jr., who as Mayor of Denver for 14 years helped transform the city from a somewhat stodgy and out-of-the-way regional center into a booming metropolis, died on Thursday at his home in Denver. He was 87. Mr. McNichols, a Democrat who was known as Mayor Bill, w
