 H. Gerard Bissinger II, a former president of the municipal bond firm Lebenthal & Company, died on Oct. 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was leukemia, his family said. A former advertising account executive, Mr. Bissinger made
 John Springer, a press agent who represented a galaxy of stars (including Marilyn Monroe, Judy Garland, Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton) and closely guarded their secrets, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. In a newspaper headline he wa
 ALBERT-Henry David. (Formerly of Rockville Centre, New York). Born Feb. 11, 1918 in Brooklyn, NY, died peacefully on October 22, 2001 in Orlando, Florida. Beloved husband of sixty years to Doris. Devoted father of Dr. Stephen Albert (Carol) and Nancy Cuniberti (Kim). Cherished grandfather t
 BARBE-William A., Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc. mourns the passing of a close friend and dedicated colleague. His grace, courage, humor and compassion will always be an inspiration to us. Our hearts and prayers are with his wife Nancy & three sons, Robert, Chase and Reed. In lieu of flower
 CANFIELD-Franklin O. Peacefully on October 29, 2001 in Montreal (Quebec) Canada in his ninety-first year. He is survived by his loving daughter Hope (wife of Jacques Tetrault), his grandchildren Ian Ogilvie (husband of Marran Humphrey) and Annie Tetrault & his great grandson Angus Ogilvie. 
 CELLIER-Jacques. On October 27, 2001. Survived by his nephew, Claude Cellier and family and his many friends. We will never forget Jacques, with his passion for life, intelligence, mischievous nature and ''larger-than-life'' personality. Jacques added a dimension of excitement and fun to al
 FEYER-George, October 21, 2001 in New York City. A devoted husband of the late Judith Hoffmann Feyer (d. 1982) and of Marta Kleyman Feyer. Loving father of Robert P. Feyer and father-in-law of Marsha N. Cohen. Delighted and proud grandfather of Daniel J.C. Feyer, Stephen L.C. Feyer & Jonath
 GOULD-J. Spencer, 79. Of 47 Club Drive, Kensington, husband of Mary (Tredennick) Gould, died on Saturday, October 27, 2001 at New Britain General Hospital, New Britain, CT. He was a certified public accountant, whose career began with David Kessler in Albany, NY. He was a Partner in Meech a
 HAIM-Victor. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member Victor Haim and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Mary and children Marc, Robert and Jacqueline. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Frank D'Ambrosio, President Charles Baraf, Secretary       
 LIPTON-Bill. Actor on radio's Golden Age shows ''Let's Pretend'', ''Road of Life'' and countless others died in Portland, Oregon on Oct. 29, 2001 after a 40-year battle with Parkinson's. Survived by his son David, daughter-in-law and two grandsons. Bill, his talent and his courage are remem
 LITTLEFIELD-Edmund Wattis. Prominent business executive, civic leader and philanthropist, died on October 27 of lung cancer in Burlingame, California, at the age of 87. He was born in Ogden, Utah on April 16, 1914. He graduated with great distinction from Stanford University in 1936, a memb
 NAGAMATSU-George R., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, George R. Nagamatsu, M.D., a former member of the medical staff at Beth Israel's Singer Division for many years. To his wife, Kazuko, and a
 PREM-Frank Herbert III (Terry). Age 37, of Housatonic, MA, died on October 24, 2001 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. He is survived by his father, F. Herbert Prem Jr., and his stepmother, Patricia Ryan Prem of New York, NY; his mother, Barbara Herrick and stepfather, Scott H
 ROSENTHAL-Robert Z. The Directors of the Zeitz Foundation express our profound sorrow at the passing of our dear friend and colleague. He will be sorely missed, especially his warm friendship and good cheer. We extend our condolences to his sons, Joseph and Robert and his entire family.    
 SPRINGER-John Shipman. Of New York City on October 30, 2001. Husband of June (Reimer), father of Gary, Alicia and Cynthia, grandfather of five. Also survived by brother Dr. Wilfred Springer and wife Elizabeth, sisters-in-law Theresa Springer and Marilyn Hogan and many nieces and nephews. Na
 STEVENS-Leonard D. Of NYC. On October 26, 2001 at 84. Beloved husband of Evelyn, devoted father of Joanne, dear brother of Evelyn. He was a native of Harlem and graduated from City College Class of 1942, served in the Army during WW II, took over as co-owner of the Hunt Printing Company, no
 TORREY-Peter MacGregor. Of Greenwich, CT, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday, October 30, at home, at age 74. Born June 9, 1927 in London, Mr. Torrey was a son of the late Clare M. Torrey and Lillian K. Andrews. He grew up in New York City and New Canaan, CT, and graduated from the Phillips 
 WARNKE-Paul C. Kalkines, Arky, Zall & Bernstein LLP is deeply saddened by the death of the father of our partner and friend, Stephen A. Warnke. We send our love and respect to his family.       
 Paul C. Warnke, who was the highest Pentagon official in the Johnson administration to question openly the aims and conduct of the Vietnam War and later, as President Jimmy Carter's chief arms-control negotiator, sought to trim American and Soviet nuclear stockpiles, died yesterday at his h
 Robert Z. Rosenthal, the former president of Martin's, a family-owned chain of women's apparel stores in Brooklyn, Long Island and New Jersey, died on Saturday at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87 and moved to Sarasota from Sands Point, N.Y., in 1986. He was president of the ap
 William E. Sauro, a photographer for The New York Times and other news organizations, died on Saturday in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 78 and lived in Laguna Woods, Calif., and earlier in Kendall Park, N.J. He died of Alzheimer's disease in an assisted living center, his family said
 Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner, who wedded  gene therapy and cardiovascular medicine to create promising treatments for heart and circulatory disease, died on Wednesday at his home in Weston, Mass., near Boston. He was 53. The cause was a heart attack, said St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in B
 John P. Roberts, a promoter of the Woodstock Music and Art Fair in 1969 and a partner in its revivals in the 90's, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Rona Roberts. Mr. Roberts, a busin
 Juan Bosch, a prolific writer who in December 1962 became the first freely elected president of the Dominican Republic in 38 years -- only to be toppled by a military coup after seven months in office -- died yesterday in the capital, Santo Domingo. He was 92. At its start, Mr. Bosc
 ALDRICH-Larry. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the death of Larry Aldrich. A benevolent early patron who believed passionately in supporting the art and artists of our time, Larry vastly enriched the Museum's collection by enabling the first acquisition o
 BARTLETT-John M. Died November 1, 2001, in his 88th year. He is survived by his brother, Edmund Bartlett; nephews, Marshall and Edmund III, and five greatnephews and nieces. Services 11am, Sunday, November 4, St. James Funeral Home, 631-584-5200 Route 25A, St. James, NY.       
 BOYLE-Michael. FDNY, Engine Company 33, lost his life on September 11, 2001 while heroically saving others in the World Trade Center. Michael was born on August 8, 1964 to James and Barbara Boyle in Queens, NY. Michael graduated from Westbury High School and Cortland State University. Micha
 COLEMAN-Sheldon T. Jr., 77. Of Greenwich died Oct. 31, at home. He is survived by a daughter Kim Coleman of Pacific Palisades, CA; a son S. Nicholson Coleman of Greenwich, CT; a brother Henry S. Coleman of New Canaan, CT., and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Monday, Nov.
 COPELON-Herman. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Herman Copelon. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary       
 DAVIS-Sheila. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the sister of our esteemed member, Dr. William Silver, and extends to him and the family our heartfelt condolences.       
 HAHN-Dr. Fred I. In New York City on October 31, 2001. Fred was a psychologist in NY for 45 years and touched many people's lives. He loved life, great food, travelling, antiques, his family and his cat. He is deeply missed by his wife Barbara, brother Bill, children Hilary, Gregory, Scott,
 HAIM-Victor. On October 31 at 83 years, survived by his wife of nearly 56 years Mary, by his children Marc, Bob and Jackie, and by his eight grandchildren. Services Friday at 1 PM at Riverside Chapel, 55 Station Plaza, Great Neck.       
 HARRIS-H. Herbert. Central Synagogue and its Brotherhood record with profound sorrow the passing of their longtime member H. Herbert Harris. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President Victor Muskin, Brotherhood President      
 ISNER-Jeffrey Michael, M.D. The staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Jeffrey Michael Isner, M.D., Professor of Medicine, Tufts Medical School. Dr. Isner was an outstanding clinician 
 MANASHOWITZ - Leon. Our heartfelt condolences to Steven and his family, from your family at Prestige Theatre Parties. Tuddie, Lenny, Jen, Pat & Margo       
 MANSOOR-Menahem. Age 90, Professor Emeritus, died October 21, 2001 in Madison, WI. A noted scholar, he founded the Department of Hebrew & Semitic Studies at the University of Wisconsin and taught there for 30 years, helped establish the significance of the Dead Sea Scrolls (NYT, August 13, 
 MARCUS-Robert P. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Robert P. Marcus, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary       
 URISH-Frank. Age 99, died October 19. Born in NYC, he founded the Glo-Mark Products & Company in the 1950's. He is survived by his loving wife of 72 years Eva, his daughters Martha Glaser and Virginia Walzer, seven grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren.       
 WARNKE-Paul. It is with deep sadness that we record the death of Paul Warnke, a courageous man who applied his great intelligence and deep compassion to the cause of world peace. We extend our condolences to the family of our valued friend and colleague, Stephen A. Warnke. Dennis Rivera, Pr
 DAVISON-Charles Hamilton. December 20, 1926-November 2, 2000. In loving memory from his family       
 Dr. Ernest R. Hilgard, a highly acclaimed experimental psychologist and a pioneer in the scientific study of hypnosis, died on Oct. 22 in Palo Alto, Calif., where he was a professor emeritus at Stanford University. He was 97. Dr. Hilgard was also known as a primary author of a class
 BEDIGIAN-Carl J., Firefighter, FDNY, Engine 214, Brooklyn, NY. Died bravely in the line of duty on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Michele. Cherished son of Dolores. Loving and devoted brother of Joseph and Robert, and brotherin-law of Richard and Yahira Bec
 BOYLE-Michael. FDNY, Engine Company 33, lost his life on September 11, 2001 while heroically saving others in the World Trade Center. Michael was born on August 8, 1964 to James and Barbara Boyle in Queens, NY. Michael graduated from Westbury High School and Cortland State University. Micha
 ENGLISHER-Elihu B. The Board of Directors, staff and members of the YM/YWHA of Washington Heights and Inwood deeply mourn the passing of Elihu B. Englisher, husband of the late Dorothy Englisher, father of Larry and Martin G. Englisher, the agency's Executive Vice President. Mr. Englisher w
 KAUFMAN-George M. The trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art are deeply saddened by the death of George M. Kaufman, passionate collector, generous benefactor, and longtime friend. He was, together with his wife Linda, a member of The William Cullen Bryant Fellows, the Friends 
 MANASHOWITZ - Leon. Our heartfelt condolences to Steven and his family, from your family at Prestige Theatre Parties. Tuddie, Lenny, Jen, Pat & Margo       
 ROKER-Al, Sr. The Faculty and Staff of the NYU Child Study Center mourn the loss of Al Roker, Sr., beloved father of Al Roker, one of our steadfast supporters & special friends. Al's energy, enthusiasm and generosity for children in need are an enduring legacy and memorial to his father. We
 STEGER-Thomas G., M.D., 32. Died suddenly on October 23 in Durham, North Carolina. Dr. Steger attended elementary and middle school in Scarsdale and graduated from the Scarsdale High School in 1987. He graduated with honors from Northwestern University in 1991 and with honors from the NYU S
 Rabbi Eliezer Menachem Schach, a leader of the strictly Orthodox Jews in Israel who wielded powerful influence over the country's politics for more than two decades, died today in Sheba Medical Center in Tel Aviv. He was 103. A fiery scholar who combined Talmudic erudition with shre
 Sandy Lehmann-Haupt, one of the Merry Pranksters on the novelist Ken Kesey's boisterously psychedelic bus, which helped define the hippie way of life as it emerged in the 1960's, died on Oct. 28 at a hospital in Callicoon Center, N.Y., near his home. He was 59 and had succeeded in leaving b
 David B. Blanchard, the chairman of the Clifford Management Group, a financial advisory concern that he founded, and president of Clifford Asset Management, another investment advisory concern, died on Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived on
 Frank Craighead, who with his identical twin, John, performed a 12-year study of grizzly bears in and around Yellowstone National Park that was credited with helping save the species from extinction in the lower 48 states, died on Oct. 21 at a nursing home in Jackson, Wyo. He was 85.       
 ANAYA-Calixto Jr., ''Charlie,'' was a firefighter with Engine 4 in Manhattan whose life was taken tragically while in the line of duty at the September 11, 2001, World Trade Center attack. Born June 19, 1966, in Manhattan, NY, to Calixto & Lydia Anaya Sr., Calixto enlisted in The United Sta
 ARNOLD-Ned. Of Lake Success, NY. The Board of Trustees and staff of New York Hospital Queens join his family in mourning the loss of Ned Arnold. Appointed an honorary member of the Board in 1989 and a Life Trustee in 1992, Ned was a major benefactor of the hospital and had a clear vision of
 AVERY-Roger E. An IEEE member, of Mount Gretna, PA, died Wednesday, October 31, 2001. He was 88. Roger was born in New Hampshire and educated at Harvard. He retired as President of Avery Laboratories in 1985. Prior to that he was an employee at Airborne Instruments Laboratories (AIL) in Min
 BASSIOS-Christos, 89. On November 1, 2001 in Ioannina, Greece where he lived in retirement. He was a longtime NYC resident, a WWII veteran and P.O.W. He will be greatly missed by his loving wife, Filomila and his beloved daughter, Penny.       
 BLACK-James Gordon. Of New York City passed away at his home on October 31, 2001. He attended the Rectory School and Phillips Academy, Andover. He was a lieutenant and pilot instructor in the U.S. Navy during WWII and then was associated with Air France for many years. A devoted Board membe
 BROWN - Captain Patrick J. FDNY. Heroically died in the line of duty at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. A 21 year veteran of the FDNY. Proud Captain of Ladder 3, former Captain of 69 Engine, former Lieutenant of 28 Truck and former firefighter of Rescue 2, Rescue 1 and 26 Truc
 BUCCA-Ronald, 47. FDNY, Fire Marshal. He responded to the call of duty at the World Trade Center, September 11, 2001. Best friend and husband to Eve, proud father of Jessica and Ronald, beloved son of Astrid and Joseph, devoted brother of Alfred and Robert. Ron was a 23-year veteran of the 
 FITZGERALD-Thomas Maurice Jr. Born April 23, 1928 to Dr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Fitzgerald of Brooklyn, NY, he was a graduate of Brooklyn Preparatory School and the College fo Arts and Sciences of Georgetown University. Following combat service as an artillery officer with the 2nd U.S. Infantry
 HOLLANDER-Bertram. Attorney, 93. Native of New York. Died October 24, 2001. Beloved husband of Edith for 62 years. Loving father of Michael and father-in-law of Clare. Brother of the late Helen Fink and his twin brother Edward who died at the age of three days. Also survived by numerous nie
 ISNER-Jeffrey Michael, M.D. The physicians, nurses, researchers, caregivers, patients and friends of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center of Boston mourn the loss of our colleague, Jeffrey M. Isner, M.D., Chief of Cardiovascular Research & Vascular Medicine at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center. Dr. 
 KREEGER-Henrietta. We extend our sincere condolences to our dear friends Douglas Kreeger and Wendy Durst Kreeger, and their family, on the death of his much beloved mother, a pioneering educator in learning disabilities. Frances Degen Horowitz, President, The Graduate Center, CUNY       
 KRUG-Jack. Age 80, died October 27, 2001, in Seattle, WA. He filled the roles in a man's life. Son, brother, friend, WWII bombardier with General Chennault, husband, father, uncle, grandfather, greatgrandfather. The interment is at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ, Sunday, November 4, 2001.
 LUGANO-Sean T. Age 28, of Manhattan. Lost in the tragedy of the World Trade Center where he was a trader for Keefe Bruyette and Woods. Loving son of Eileen (nee Duffell) and the late John A. Lugano. Best brother of John, Stephanie, Kristen and Michael. Devoted grandson of Anne M. Duffell an
 MacNIVEN-Thomas E., 74. Retired investment banker, of East Hampton, NY, formerly of Larchmont, NY. Attended Pace College and served in US Navy in WW II. Avid sailor. Survived by wife of 49 years, Margot (Gotte) MacNiven and three children, Thomas E. MacNiven Jr. of East Hampton, NY, Hugh Ma
 MANASHOWITZ - Leon. Our heartfelt condolences to Steven and his family, from your family at Prestige Theatre Parties. Tuddie, Lenny, Jen, Pat & Margo       
 NATION-Douglas P.C. Age 59. Died Sept. 2nd, 2001 in Switzerland. He was a Senior Managing Director at Bear Stearns, NYC. He is survived by his wife Caroline, his two daughters, Tanya & Charlotte, and his aunt, Mary Wallace. A memorial service will be held at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Chur
 NEWMAN-Isadore L. 90 years old, February 18, 1911 to November 2, 2001. Survived by his loving wife Regina Delit and four married sons Eliott, William, Jeffrey and Philip and ten devoted grandchildren. For further information please call Hellman Memorial Chapels at 845-356-8600.       
 ORTALE-Peter Keith. Age 37. Missing since September 11, 2001, World Trade Center. Resident of Manhattan. Native of Philadelphia, PA. Devoted husband to Mary Duff. Loving son of Mary Ortale and the late Gilbert Ortale. Dear brother to Cathy Grimes, Mary Malitas, Julie Ortale and Gil Ortale. 
 PEDERSEN-Charles Richard, 78. On October 26, 2001. Husband, father, grandfather. Born and raised in Havre, Montana, Dick was a Captain in the U.S. Army, serving in Europe in WWII. He later attended Harvard Law School on an academic scholarship. A member of the law firm Dewey, Ballantine, Bu
 PREM-Frank Herbert III (Terry). Age 37, of Housatonic, MA, died on October 24, 2001 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. He is survived by his father, F. Herbert Prem Jr., and his stepmother, Patricia Ryan Prem of New York, NY; his mother, Barbara Herrick and stepfather, Scott H
 ROBERTS-John. The Trustees and staff of Expeditionary Learning Outward Bound mourn the loss of John Roberts, a trustee and friend whose intelligence, humor and grace set him apart, and at the same time connected him to us and to everyone. We offer our sympathy and support to his wife Rona, 
 ROKER-Al, Sr. The Faculty and Staff of the NYU Child Study Center mourn the loss of Al Roker, Sr., beloved father of Al Roker, one of our steadfast supporters & special friends. Al's energy, enthusiasm and generosity for children in need are an enduring legacy and memorial to his father. We
 RUSSO-Lt. Michael T. (FDNY). In the line of duty on September 11, 2001 at the WTC. He served with Squad 1 in Park Slope, Brooklyn for 21 years. He responded to the call while assigned to Rescue 5, Staten Island. Loving husband of Theresa (nee Shalley). Devoted father of Michael T., Jr. Cher
 STEGER-Thomas G., M.D., 32. Died suddenly on October 23 in Durham, North Carolina. Dr. Steger attended elementary and middle school in Scarsdale and graduated from the Scarsdale High School in 1987. He graduated with honors from Northwestern University in 1991 and with honors from the NYU S
 TRANBAUGH-Robert F., Sr. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of the hospital's parent company, Continuum Health Partners in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Robert F. Tranbaugh, Sr., beloved father of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Robert 
 WEISS-Abraham. On November 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Wendy Greenberg and Debra Weinberg. Dear father-in-law of Joel Greenberg and Laurence Weinberg. Devoted brother of Lillian Aronson. Adoring grandfather of Victoria and Barry, Andrew and Sarah. Greatgrandfather of 
 YOUNGKEN-Heber W., Jr., 88. An internationally known educator, researcher, and university administrator, died October 22 at his home in Peace Dale, RI. He was the son of noted pharmacognocist Heber Wilkinson Youngken and Clara Eastman Youngken. Youngken devoted his life's work to the field 
 FRENCH-Richard F. Director of Juilliard's Doctor of Musical Arts program 1987-1993. A musical tribute honoring his memory takes place Tuesday, November 6, at 5PM in Juilliard's Paul Recital Hall, 60 Lincoln Center Plaza.       
 J. P. Miller, an Emmy Award-winning writer from television's golden age of live drama, who was best known for the teleplays ''The Days of Wine and Roses'' and ''The People Next Door,'' died on Thursday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 81. The cause was pneu
 Neil Tillotson, an industrialist and resort owner who became a celebrity every four years as the first person to vote in the presidential primaries and the election of the president, died Oct. 17 at a hospital in Colebrook, N.H. He was 102. ''I saw Teddy Roosevelt, I was probably 16
 BALABAN-Elmer. Age 92. The last remaining sibling of the Balaban family. Beloved husband of the late Elenore. Dear father of Nancy Magidson, Robert (Lynn) Balaban and the late Susan Flaxman. Loving grandfather of Jim Magidson, Deborah (Steve Curley) Magidson, Mariah Hazel and the late John 
 LEVACK-A. Paul. Of Yonkers on November 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen. Father of Ann and Brian and his wife Nancy. Grandfather of Christopher and Andrew. Calling hours at The Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, between the hours of 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 PM, Tuesday. Mass of Chris
 NATION-Douglas P.C. Age 59. Died Sept. 2nd, 2001 in Switzerland. He was a Senior Managing Director at Bear Stearns, NYC. He is survived by his wife Caroline, his two daughters, Tanya & Charlotte, and his aunt, Mary Wallace. A memorial service will be held at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Chur
 ROCHETEAU-Ralph C. Jr. April 1, 1924-November 1, 2001. Died at home in Hyannis, Massachusetts. Survived by his wife of 54 years, June, and children, Ralph, Joseph, Diane, Michael, and Joanne, and by brother, Albert. Served in the U.S. 3rd Army during W.W. II. Awarded Silver Star and Bronze 
 RUBIN-Kenneth. Of Ardsley, Professer of Physics at CUNY for 35 years. Husband, father, grandfather, ardent Researcher, Skiier, Skater, Trekker, International Traveler, Food afficinado and Blues enthusiast died November 3, after nine months of wordlessness and paralysis. He is soaring now. H
 STEGER-Thomas G., M.D., 32. Died suddenly on October 23 in Durham, North Carolina. Dr. Steger attended elementary and middle school in Scarsdale and graduated from the Scarsdale High School in 1987. He graduated with honors from Northwestern University in 1991 and with honors from the NYU S
 WEISS-Abraham. The members, officers, and staff of the former District 1115/SEIU deeply regret the passing of our friend and mentor, Abraham Weiss. ''Abe'' served our Union for five decades. He opened our minds through education, inspiration and humor so that we could imagine who we could b
 WIESEN-Irving. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Tobie and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, Presid
 GETTENBERG-Gustave. He left us November 5, 2000. Always in our hearts and thoughts. Deeply missed. Everlasting love and cherished memories remain. His Family       
 Spike Robinson, a lyrical jazz saxophonist who had careers in both music and engineering, died last Monday at his home in his adopted hometown of Writtle in central Essex, England. He was 71. His death was reported Friday in The London Daily Telegraph, which said that after settling
 Former Representative Edward P. Boland, a steady, self-effacing lawmaker whose name became central to the debates over the Reagan administration's policies in Central America, died on Sunday. He was 90. Mr. Boland, a native of Springfield, Mass., spent 36 years in Congress represent
 Jack Manning, a veteran photographer for The New York Times whose subjects ranged from gritty city streets to high culture, died on Friday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 80, had been retired for one year and lived in Pearl River, N.Y. His wife, Marie, said he died from com
 BRACKEN-Kevin H., 37. Of Manhattan (formerly of Central Islip). Kevin was a firefighter with Engine Company 40 on the Upper West Side. He lost his life heroically in the line of duty at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. An eight year veteran of the FDNY and former member of Engi
 CRAWFORD-Robert J. On September 11, 2001 during the performance of his duties as a New York City firefighter (Safety Batallion). He was lost in The World Trade Center disaster while in the process of evacuating civilians. Beloved husband of Dorothea (Mallon), dearest father of Christine, Ma
 KENNEDY-Peter J. Died on November 3, 2001. Born March 8, 1912, Brooklyn, New York. Son of Cornelius Kennedy & Mary Reilly of Ireland and New York. A 1929 graduate of Regis HS, Manhattan, New York. Served in the U.S. Army's 77th Division in Guam, Okinawa and elsewhere in the Pacific. Awarded
 LEVACK-A. Paul. Of Yonkers on November 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen. Father of Ann and Brian and his wife Nancy. Grandfather of Christopher and Andrew. Calling hours at The Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, between the hours of 2 to 4 and 7 to 9PM Tuesday. Mass of Christi
 LEVINE-Lazarus I. A longtime resident of Sullivan County, New York, died on Saturday at age 96 in Boca Raton, Florida. Husband of the late Blanche E. Natelson, he graduated from Brooklyn Law School in 1926, was admitted to the New York Bar in 1927 & practiced law in Hurleyville, New York, u
 MOORE-William Joseph. Of Rye Brook, died November 4, 2001, after a brief illness. He was born September 18, 1918 in New York City. He married Justine Collins in 1945 who predeceased him. He graduated Fordham Prep 1935 and from Fordham University 1939. Mr. Moore graduated from New York Unive
 SCHOTTENFELD-Marvin. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Barbara, his children Richard and Beth, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Norton D.
 SCHREIER-Leonard J. The Partners and Staff of Sterling Equities, with deep sorrow and sadness, mourn the death of our partner and friend Lenny Schreier. He will be remembered for his wisdom, generosity of spirit and his devotion to humanity. We will miss him very much, yet he will always be
 SILBERMAN-Charles L. Died November 1, 2001, at age 87, in New Rochelle, NY. Formerly of New Milford, NJ, and New York City. Loving husband of the late Lenore (Guth). Father of Shoshana and Julie; father-in-law of Dianne; grandfather of Sonya, Alex, Rachel & Dan. Also survived by brothers, P
 STOLTZFUS-Mary Leslie. On November 2, 2001 at age 94. Loving sister of the late John C. Stoltzfus. Dear sister-in-law of Bertha Stoltzfus. Devoted aunt of John A. Stoltzfus and his wife, Daly. Adoring great aunt to Charlotte E. Stoltzfus. Interment private. Memorial service at St. Thomas Ep
 SUROVY-Walter. On November 4, 2001 at age 91. Beloved husband of Rise Stevens Surovy, father of Nicholas Surovy, grandather of Marisa Z. Surovy, brother of Hilda Csoka. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Rise Stevens Scholarship Fund, Juilliard School of Music, C/O Lincoln Cente
 WEISSENSTEIN - Herbert. The staff and Board of Aaron Davis Hall mourn the loss of Herb Weissenstein. He will be truly missed. Our condolences to his family.       
 WEXLER-John P., M.D., Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine is profoundly shocked & saddened by the untimely death of our valued colleague and friend, Dr. John Wexler, Professor of Nuclear Medicine and of Radiology. A member of our faculty since 1973, John played an active and expansive
 Angelo Ippolito, a painter and one of the founders of the Tanager Gallery, an artist-run space that was part of the New York School of Abstract Expressionists in the 1950's, died on Oct. 29 in Johnson City, N.Y., near Binghamton, where he was a professor emeritus of art at the State Univers
 Edward Padula, a Broadway producer with a keen eye for talent, who won a Tony Award in 1961 for ''Bye Bye Birdie,'' died on Thursday at Southampton Hospital, near his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said Milton S. Teicher, his lawyer. The
 BROWN-Jordan S., M.D. Husband of Joan. Father of Melissa, Mark, Jim and Jessica. Grandfather of Lily, Laura and Maya. Brother of Ruthel. Uncle of John and Peter and their families. His great passions were his family and medicine. Until two weeks ago he practiced Urology at NYU School of Med
 CRAWFORD-Robert J. On September 11, 2001 during the performance of his duties as a New York City firefighter (Safety Batallion). He was lost in The World Trade Center disaster while in the process of evacuating civilians. Beloved husband of Dorothea (Mallon), dearest father of Christine, Ma
 FELLNER-Marvin, 73, on November 5, 2001. Husband of the late Naomi Kramer Fellner. Beloved father of David M. and his wife Mary; Gary M. and his wife Ada. Adored grandfather of Franco and Joyce. Cherished loved one to Ede Berelson & her son and daughterin-law George and Suely Berelson. Fune
 HALLORAN-Vincent Gerard. Of North Salem NY, was lost in the line of duty while serving as a Lieutenant for the New York City Fire Department at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. He was 43. Beloved husband of Marie and a devoted and loving father to his sons Jake 15, Conor 13, Ai
 JACOBS-Lawrence D., M.D. The passing of Larry Jacobs, a preeminent neurologist who personified the ideal of the compassionate physician, saddens all of us at Biogen. Larry was among the first to see the potential of interferon beta in the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Today, as a result 
 LUGANO-Sean T. Age 28, of Manhattan. Lost in the tragedy of the World Trade Center where he was a trader for Keefe Bruyette and Woods. Loving son of Eileen (nee Duffell) and the late John A. Lugano. Best brother of John, Stephanie, Kristen and Michael. Devoted grandson of Anne M. Duffell an
 MOORE-William J. The Fordham Law School community records with great sorrow the passing of William J. Moore, our Dean of Admissions for over 30 years. He brought great warmth, dignity, wise judgement and compassion to his work. His legacy is found in the lives of over 10,000 Fordham Law gra
 PERRY-John W., 38. NYPD lawyer, died a hero September 11 volunteering to rescue victims of the WTC attack. Civil libertarian and cop, down-to-earth free spirit, actor, linguist, with his restless mind, he questioned authority but played by the rules, housed the homeless, sought challenges o
 SCHREIER-Leonard J. The Partners and Staff of Sterling Equities, with deep sorrow and sadness, mourn the death of our partner and friend Lenny Schreier. He will be remembered for his wisdom, generosity of spirit and his devotion to humanity. We will miss him very much, yet he will always be
 SCREVANE-Paul R. On November 4, 2001. Formerly of Douglaston, NY. Former President of New York City Council, Commissioner of Sanitation, New York City. Husband of the late Bridie Screvane. Father of Paul Owen, Sara-Ann Steber, Christopher J. and Brian Screvane. Also survived by nine grandch
 SILVERMAN-Frederick, M.D. The Lenox Hill Hospital family expresses its profound sorrow at the passing of Frederick Silverman, M.D., a distinguished member of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for over 30 years. Throughout his career, his deep commitment to his patients was unwaver
 STERN-Chaim. The clergy, staff and members of Temple Beth El of Northern Westchester are profoundly saddened by the untimely death of our Rabbi Emeritus, Chaim Stern. As our Senior Rabbi for thirty-three years, he will be remembered with great fondness for his wisdom, humor, and influence o
 SUROVY-Walter. The Metropolitan Opera mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Walter Surovy, the beloved husband of Managing Director, Rise Stevens. An elegant gentleman, he was a friend to many at The Metropolitan Opera. Deeply committed to the company, both Mr. Sur
 IUSHEWITZ-Morris, born November 7, 1901. In memory of a scholarly man of great character and accomplishment. His extraordinary life was dedicated to improving the lives of workers everywhere.       
 Paul R. Screvane, who began serving New York City by driving a garbage truck and progressed to one of its loftiest political positions, president of the City Council, died on Sunday at his home in Wyomissing, Pa. He was 87. His daughter, Sara-Ann Steber, said he never sold his home 
 Ernst Gombrich, an author of panoramic erudition and probably the world's best-known art historian thanks to his best-selling ''Story of Art,'' died on Saturday in London, where he had lived since moving from his native Vienna in 1936. He was 92. ''The Story of Art'' sold mi
 AHERN-John J. (1932-2001) in Paris, France, of a rare form of cancer. A native New Yorker, Mr. Ahern was a pharmaceutical business executive who lived and worked in Colombia, Australia, and throughout Europe. Survived by his loving wife, Marianne, his daughters Florence and Teresa, and son 
 BROWN-Jordan S., M.D. Husband of Joan. Father of Melissa, Mark, Jim and Jessica. Grandfather of Lily, Laura and Maya. Brother of Ruthel. Uncle of John and Peter and their families. His great passions were his family and medicine. Until two weeks ago he practiced Urology at NYU School of Med
 DEUTSCH-Alfred L. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Alfred L. Deutsch, and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Bernice, and their family. Ro
 FOX-David Joseph, 74. Of Haworth, N.J. Devoted husband of the late Louise. Died yesterday at Englewood Hospital. He is survived by his brother, Allen Fox, his four adoring daughters, Amy, Michal, Heather and Erica, and the grandchildren he loved, Zachariah, Jonah and Sarah. Dr. Fox was a Pr
 HERBST-Daniel. Of Yorktown Heights, New York, died on November 6, 2001 at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City. He was 48. He is survived by his wife Sandra, son Colin, son Larry Antinozzi of Yorktown; father Joseph, stepmother Lois Herbst; sister Diana of Seattle, WA. Calling hours are Thur
 KOHLER-James E. Sr. On November 7, 2001, of Breezy Point, NY, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Deputy District Attorney, Kings County, NY. Former Deputy Commissioner, NYFD. Beloved husband of Jeanne. Loving father of Patricia and Thomas McVeigh, James Jr. and Patricia, Theresa and William Estes, M
 LUGANO-Sean T. Age 28, of Manhattan. Lost in the tragedy of the World Trade Center where he was a trader for Keefe Bruyette and Woods. Loving son of Eileen (nee Duffell) and the late John A. Lugano. Best brother of John, Stephanie, Kristen and Michael. Devoted grandson of Anne M. Duffell an
 McCRACKEN-John Edward. July 28, 1914-November 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Jeanne M.S. McCracken. Devoted father of David J.B. McCracken. Princeton University '36, Yale Law School '39, The Union Club. Memorial service Fifth Ave. Presbyterian Church, 7 West 55 St. Thursday, November 15, 2001 
 PHELAN-Kenneth J. Lieutenant FDNY, Engine 217, Brooklyn, New York, and former firefighter in Ladder 7 & Engine 16 Manhattan. He died bravely in the line of duty on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Patty. Loving father of Kimberly, Erin, Danny and Kenny, Jr. C
 PRINCIOTTA-Vincent A. Age 39, heroically responded to the call of duty at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Karen and loving father of Christina, 16 months. Devoted son of Anita and the late Vincent, loving brother of Michele and Bernadette. He will be greatly
 ROSENBERG-Sam. On November 6, 2001. Beloved husband of Elaine, loving father of Lance. Former President of The Town Club Foundation. He will be missed. Private service. Contributions in his memory to The Town Club Foundation, 9 East 86th Street, New York, New York 10028. ROSENBERG-S
 SCHREIER-Leonard J. The Partners and Staff of Sterling Equities, with deep sorrow and sadness, mourn the death of our partner and friend Lenny Schreier. He will be remembered for his wisdom, generosity of spirit and his devotion to humanity. We will miss him very much, yet he will always be
 SILVERMAN-Fred, MD. Our dear friend and colleague. We are saddened at the loss. Sincere condolences to Marilyn and family. Claire and Sherwin Kaufman SILVERMAN - Frederick, M.D. Drs. Barbara Edelstein and Kenneth Goldman mourn the passing of Dr. Fred Silverman. He was a doctor's doc
 STERN-Rabbi Chaim. On November 5, 2001. Beloved husband of Lea. Father of David, Philip and Michael. Stepfather of Rand and Cary. Private, graveside service Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, N.Y. Memorial service on Sunday, November 11th, 2PM at Temple Beth El, Chappaqua, N.Y. Donations to
 SUROVY-Walter. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Metropolitan Opera Guild mourn the passing of Walter Surovy, the husband of our beloved longtime Board member, Rise Stevens. Walter was a great friend of the Guild and a valuable supporter of our work, and we will miss his war
 VOLLMERHAUSEN-Joseph William, M.D. Of Summit, NJ died November 6, 2001 after a long illness. Born in Barmen, Germany, May 10, 1917, son of Maria and Joseph. The family emigrated in 1925. He graduated valedictorian of Brooklyn Prep School 1935, Fordham University 1939, and Long Island Colleg
 B. K. Nehru, an Indian diplomat who nearly succeeded Dag Hammarskjold as United Nations secretary general and quarreled with his cousin Prime Minister Indira Gandhi over Kashmir, died on Oct. 31 in Kasauli in northern India. He was 92. In 1958, Mr. Nehru helped create the Aid India 
 Earle K. Moore, an American communications lawyer who secured a landmark civil rights court ruling that obliged broadcasting stations to serve the interests of their audiences, died of cancer Saturday in Manhattan. He was 79. In 1964, at the height of the civil rights movement, Mr. 
 Elmer Balaban, the last surviving brother of seven in a family that dominated the movie theater business in Chicago and the Midwest, died on Nov. 2 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 92. Mr. Balaban began in the business before theaters sold popcorn (they offered only candy), but fo
 ARONSON-Michael M., 28. November 5, 2001, Daytona Beach, FL. Beloved son of Alan and Barbara Aronson of Katonah, NY, and Ellen and Jan Stern of Ormond Beach, FL. Also survived by his three brothers, grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins. Contributions may be made to Musicians on Call (hos
 CINISOMO-Edmund. We all live on borrowed time! How Daytop's Vice President for Texas's and California's Youth life-saving efforts, Ed Cinisomo, reflected that reality. Armed with more than two decades of inspired leadership, captaining treatment Staff in major Daytop treatment centers acros
 CLARK-Irwin, pioneer in the study of calcium and phosphoros metabolism in bone growth and regeneration, died on November 6 at his home in Plainfield, NJ after a lengthy illness. He was born on April 28, 1918, received his Bachelor's degree from Harvard University, and was awarded a Doctorat
 FIEDEKE-Donald Kurz. Died October 19, 2001 at the age of 70. Donald started his working history with J. Walter Thompson. He then travelled to Spain and owned and operated three restaurants. Finally returning to the U.S. to become executive chef at Saks Fifth Avenue, Batus & Triangle Industr
 JUDGE-Curtis Herbert Jr. Formerly of White Plains, recently of Charleston, SC on November 7, 2001 at age 77. He joined R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company in 1965 as Vice President of Marketing and resided in Winston-Salem, NC until he joined Lorillard in 1970 where he was Chairman and Chief Exec
 KOHLER-James E. The Kings County District Attorney and his staff mourn with deep sorrow the passing of James E. Kohler, beloved husband of Jeanne, wife of more than 40 years. Loving father of Patricia, James, Michael, Teresa, Andrew and Jeanne and beloved grandfather of T.J., Kaitlin, Sean,
 KRALL-Louis Victor. On November 7, 2001. Husband of Joan Spooner. Father of Michael and his wife Shelley and Valerie and her husband Ralph Lieberman. Grandfather of Jordan, Abigail & Jacob Krall and Peter Lieberman. Retired president of GotaasLarsen, Inc. Reposing at Moore Funeral Home, 54 
 KUHN-Louis. Loving husband of Lee (61 years); father of Robert (Pasadena, CA & NYC) & Karen (Paradise Valley, AZ); father-inlaw of Dora Kuhn & Stuart Troyan; adoring grandfather of Aaron, Adam, Daniella, Ross & Michael. Born: May 18, 1912 in New York; died: November 7, 2001, in his 90th yea
 McCRACKEN-John Edward. July 28, 1914-November 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Jeanne M.S. McCracken. Devoted father of David J.B. McCracken. Princeton University '36, Yale Law School '39, The Union Club. Memorial service Fifth Ave. Presbyterian Church, 7 West 55 St. Thursday, November 15, 2001 
 McGEE-John Gerard. Of Middle Village at the age of 44. Beloved son of Florence. Loving brother of Robert McGee, Jr., Dr. Judith McGee, Kathleen Daniels, Reverend Michael McGee, Janice McAuliffe, Patricia Nulty, Margaret McGee, Nancy Dockstader, William McGee and the late Richard McGee. Devo
 McMAHON-Robert D. (Bobby). Member of Ladder 20, FDNY, who lost his life while heroically saving others in the World Trade Center Disaster of September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Julie (nee Siard). Devoted father of Matthew Clifford, with Julie expecting their second child. He will be reme
 SHOMATE-James P. On October 13, 2001. Renowned accompanist, vocal coach, and humanitarian. A service commemorating his life will be held at The Weill Art Gallery, 92nd Street YM/YWHA, 1395 Lexington Avenue, NY, from 4-6 P.M., Wednesday, November 28, 2001. Memorial contributions in his name 
 SILVERMAN-Frederick, M.D. The faculty of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of the NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, express their deep sorrow on the death of their esteemed colleague Dr. Frederick Silverman. Dr. Silverman did his residency
 SPIELBERGER-Lawrence, MD. On November 7, 2001. A devoted anesthesiologist at NYU Medical Center for over thirty years. He was a physician of unmatched talent and integrity. His intellectual curiosity and knowledge covered many human endeavors, among them art, music and literature. After his
 STENGEL-Kenneth. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our former employee and friend, Kenny Stengel. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Peter J. Baum, President Dan Klonsky, Secretary       
 VOLLMERHAUSEN-Joseph William, M.D. Of Summit, NJ died November 6, 2001 after a long illness. Born in Barmen, Germany, May 10, 1917, son of Maria and Joseph. The family emigrated in 1925. He graduated valedictorian of Brooklyn Prep School 1935, Fordham University 1939, and Long Island Colleg
 WHITE-John S., PhD., age 91, Nov. 6, 2001 after a short illness in Sarasota, FL. Retired Managing Director of N.Y.C. Opera. Beloved godfather of Cristina. We as his family, friends and former colleagues mourn his death with deep sorrow and sadness. Lisa, Hans and Cristina Gegenschatz, David
 Fred J. Maroon, a meticulous photographer whose work caught the eye of Richard M. Nixon, who invited him into the White House where he wound up photographing the decline and fall of a president, died Monday at his home in Washington. He was 77. His wife, Suzy, said the cause was mul
 Giovanni Leone, a former president of Italy noted for his cheerful bonhomie and successful negotiations as a senator to bring about his country's first divorce law, died yesterday at his home outside Rome. He was 93. Widely recognized as both a scholar and a political peacemaker in 
 Dr. Lawrence D. Jacobs, a neurologist who helped harness the power of a human protein to fight multiple sclerosis, died on Nov. 2 at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 63. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Jacobs was an early explorer of 
 ALDRICH-Larry. A man of great artistic taste, intelligence, wit and charm. He encouraged artists to create and all of us to see. He was a dear friend to Henry and Erna Leir, and enlisted them in his charitable causes. We will remember. The Leir Foundations       
 ELLMAN-Benjamin, 86. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, great grandfather, patriarch and source of strength and guidance to all who knew him. Survived by his loving wife Pearl, son Mark and his wife Nancy, daughter Lois, grandchildren Jeff and his wife Sonya, Diana and Eric and great gra
 JEFFREY-Michael. Age 65. Of Cornelius, N.C. died Thursday, November 8, 2001 at his residence. He was born May 4, 1936 in Jamaica, New York to Paul and Miriam Jeffrey. Funeral services will be held 1:00 Saturday, November 10, 2001 at Harry & Bryant Chapel in the Oaks, 500 Providence Road, wi
 KUHN-Louis. Loving husband of Lee (61 years); father of Robert (Pasadena, CA & NYC) & Karen (Paradise Valley, AZ); father-inlaw of Dora Kuhn & Stuart Troyan; adoring grandfather of Aaron, Adam, Daniella, Ross & Michael. Born: May 18, 1912 in New York; died: November 7, 2001, in his 90th yea
 LEWIS-David W. On November 7, 2001. Died peacefully in his 97th year following a short illness. Beloved husband of Muriel. Devoted father of Stephen, Daniel, and Robert, and daughters-in-law Suzanna, Claudia, and Stacey. Adored grandfather of Rachel, Aaron, Matthew, Ethan, Jennifer and Samu
 McMAHON-Robert D. (Bobby). Member of Ladder 20, FDNY, who lost his life while heroically saving others in the World Trade Center Disaster of September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Julie (nee Siard). Devoted father of Matthew Clifford, with Julie expecting their second child. He will be reme
 PERRY-John W. The staff and Boards of Directors of the New York Civil Liberties Union and the American Civil Liberties Union are deeply saddened by the death of former Nassau Chapter Board Member, John W. Perry. John was both a deeply committed civil libertarian and police officer who died 
 POLATNICK-Samuel. Compassionate, learned, dedicated educator spent almost 40 years in the New York City Public School System. Executive Director of the division of high schools. First principal of Springfield Gardens, High School. Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction in Gr
 RUDERMAN-Myron C. (Mike). At his home in Plainview, after a long bout with Lou Gehrig's Disease. Beloved husband of Judy. Doting father of Josh, Lisa and David Ruderman, and father-in-law of Sasha Nyary. Delighted grandfather of Sarah Wheeler, Brian & Lily. He was a 35-year employee of Aero
 SPIERER-Sidney. 89. November 9, 2001, Madison, WI. Loving father of Michael Spierer, Larry Spierer and Jamye Spierer Bannon. He is survived by brothers Charles Spierer and Morris Spierer. Graveside service Sunday November 11, 1pm Beth-El Cemetery, Emerson, NJ.       
 SULLIVAN-Mark A., Honorable. 90. Of Spring Lake, NJ on Friday, November 9, 2001. Judge Sullivan was appointed to the Second District Court of Jersey City in 1945, the Superior Court of NJ in 1953, and the Supreme Court of NJ in 1973. During his tenure on the Supreme Court, he served as Acti
 THOMPSON-Perry Anthony. Age 36, of Williamstown, NJ. Died on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center in NY. Survived by his wife Charlette (nee Payne), two daughters Ashley & Chelsea; his mother Lula Thompson of Lumberton, NC, one sister Lisa Fenner of Charlotte, NC, and one brother Mi
 Dr. Warren Elliott Henry, a scientist who in a long career in government and academia made significant contributions to the fields of radar technology, physical properties of materials and physics education, died on Oct. 31 in Washington. He was 92 and lived in Washington, where he 
 Ken Kesey, the Pied Piper of the psychedelic era, who was best known as the author of the novel ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'' died yesterday in a hospital in Eugene, Ore., said his wife, Faye. He was 66 and lived in Pleasant Hill, Ore. The cause was complications after surger
 Chaim Stern, one of Reform Judaism's most prolific liturgists -- whose influence extended even to President Bill Clinton, who quoted a passage on contrition from one of Rabbi Stern's books during the president's sex scandal -- died of a malignant brain tumor at a Miami hospital on Monday. H
 ALDRICH-Larry. A man of great artistic taste, intelligence, wit and charm. He encouraged artists to create and all of us to see. He was a dear friend to Henry and Erna Leir, and enlisted them in his charitable causes. We will remember. The Leir Foundations       
 BARRETT-Betty. The staff of Herbert Barrett Management mourns the passing of Betty Barrett, beloved wife of our President Herbert Barrett. We extend heartfelt condolences to him and the family.       
 BLACK-James G. The officers and members of the New England Society in the City of New York are saddened by the recent death of James G. Black, longtime Director and Secretary of the Society. His wise counsel, organizational skills and the pleasure of his company will be sorely missed. C. Ha
 BROWN-Jordan S., M.D. Jordan our charming chauffeur, our compassionate doctor, our dear friend, our warm neighbor who laughed at our not so funny jokes. We will miss him. Emile and Diane       
 BURNSIDE-John Patrick. FDNY. Heroically died in the line of duty on September 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center attack. John was a three year veteran of the NYPD at Central Park Precinct. The last seven years he served as one of New York's bravest amongst his friends and comrades of Ladde
 COOK-Frederick H. Age 86 of Liberty Corner, N.J. formerly of New Vernon, N.J. on November 7, 2001. Retired CEO of Purolator, Inc., Dillon, Read and Co., Inc. and Congoleum Nairn. Beloved husband of Beryl (Anderson) Cook, devoted father of Susan C. Murray and Nancy C. O'Brasky, brother of Ro
 DRUSS-Sol, 87. The last remaining of his siblings, on Nov. 3, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Florence Druss, loving father of Nancy (Marty) Peckerar, Vicki ''Bracha'' (Aryeh) Goetz, adored grandfather of Andrew, Robby (Nomi) Peckerar, Sara Penina (Binyamin Zev) Yankelove, Gavriel, Rochel
 FISHER-Vincent J., MD. It is with deep sadness that we send condolences to the family of Dr. Vincent (Vince) Fisher. We extend our deepest sympathy to Natalie as she has lost her husband of 50 years, to his children Barbara, Maureen, Kevin, Brian, Theresa and Clairemarie they have lost thei
 GARNELL-William, 77. Of Florham Park, NJ and New Marlborough, MA., on November 3, 2001. Loving husband of Natalie. Devoted father of Joni and David. Caring grandfather of Matthew, Noah, Evan, Dana, Jeremy, Benjamin & Daniel. A member of Actor's Equity, SAG and AFTRA, he was a professional a
 HAWLEY-Captain Mark Taney, Sr. A resident of Covington, LA, and a former shipping executive with International Shipholding Corporation and community activist, died Sunday, November 4, 2001 in Houston of a massive heart attack. He was 50. Born in Great Neck, NY, he graduated from Maria Regin
 JURGENS-Thomas E. 26 year old Senior Court Officer at Manhattan Supreme Court, heroically on September 11, 2001. Tommy was also a Captain of Engine 332 of the Meadowmere Park Volunteer Fire Department and was honorably discharged from the United States Army, Army Reserves, and the National 
 KUHN-Louis. Loving husband of Lee (61 years); father of Robert (Pasadena, CA & NYC) & Karen (Paradise Valley, AZ); father-inlaw of Dora Kuhn & Stuart Troyan; adoring grandfather of Aaron, Adam, Daniella, Ross & Michael. Born: May 18, 1912 in New York; died: November 7, 2001, in his 90th yea
 LEAVEY-Joseph G., Lieutenant, NYFD, 45 of Ladder 15, NYFD gave his life in the line of duty at the WTC on September 11, 2001. Joe, a resident of Pelham, was born and raised in the Inwood Section of NYC on November 13, 1955 to Mary S. (Giannotti) & Joseph P. Leavey, retired NYC Transit Polic
 LEWIS-David W. On November 7, 2001. Died peacefully in his 97th year following a short illness. Beloved husband of Muriel. Devoted father of Stephen, Daniel, and Robert, and daughters-in-law Suzanna, Claudia, and Stacey. Adored grandfather of Rachel, Aaron, Matthew, Ethan, Jennifer and Samu
 LUDWIG-William Frank. Died November 8, 2001 in Vero Beach, Florida from complications of lung cancer. Loving husband of Gaye, devoted father of Bill, Amelia, Jack and Julia, beloved grandfather of Stacey, Lydia, Anna and Zachary and brother of Judy and Donald. Friend and colleague to many a
 McCRACKEN-John Edward. July 28, 1914-November 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Jeanne M.S. McCracken. Devoted father of David J.B. McCracken. Princeton University '36, Yale Law School '39, The Union Club. Memorial service Fifth Ave. Presbyterian Church, 7 West 55 St. Thursday, November 15, 2001 
 McMAHON-Gavin. On September 11, 2001, World Trade Center at age 35. Loving son of Terence and Linda McMahon. Also survived by John and Maureen Sproha, Bertha Stirling, Maurice and Geraldine McMahon, Bridget Fitzpatrick and numerous cousins. Funeral Mass at St. Henry's Church, Avenue C betwe
 McVEIGH-Joseph Edward. On November 9, 2001. Dear husband of Denise Finn McVeigh and beloved father of Brendan. Reposing Monday 2-5 and 7-9 pm Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave., NYC. Mass of Christian Burial Epiphany R.C. Church Tuesday 10 am. Contributions in his memory may be made to T
 PEARSON-Scott C. Son of Clarence E. Pearson and the late June Waldhe Pearson. Stepson of Laurie Norris. Died on Wednesday November 7, 2001 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York. Private services to be held in Chicago at the gravesite of his mother. In lieu of flowers contribution
 PESHKIN-Daniel. A longtime resident of Weston, Connecticut, died Wednesday, November 7, 2001 at the age of 72 after a brief illness. He was a ''world class'' husband and father, and is survived by his wife, Westport attorney Joy Kony Peshkin; their two children, Wendy Ann Forkner of Darien,
 POLATNICK-Samuel. Compassionate, learned, dedicated educator spent almost 40 years in the New York City Public School System. Executive Director of the division of high schools. First principal of Springfield Gardens, High School. Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction in Gr
 PRUDDEN-Horton Rorick. Age 82, retired Chairman of the First Southeast Corporation. He was a Veteran in the U.S. Army in the Pacific Theater. He is survived by his wife Shirley Davidson Prudden, three children Horton R., Jr., James D., Jeffrey P.; sister Gloria Prudden Lange; daughter-in-la
 ROBERTS-John. The Trustees, Advisors and staff of Outward Bound USA mourn the loss of John Roberts, a trustee and friend whose intelligence, humor and grace set him apart, and at the same time connected him to us and to everyone. We offer our sympathy and support to his wife Rona, his daugh
 SHOMATE-James P. On October 13, 2001. Renowned accompanist, vocal coach, and humanitarian. A service commemorating his life will be held at The Weill Art Gallery, 92nd Street YM/YWHA, 1395 Lexington Avenue, NY, from 4-6 P.M., Wednesday, November 28, 2001. Memorial contributions in his name 
 STEVENS-Peter Norton. Died on October 17th, 2001 at age 73. His education includes a BS degree in economics from the University of Virginia and an MS Degree from MIT. He spent five years in the US Marine Corps. Peter was a Peace Corps Country Director for six Latin American countries. He is
 VASATKA-Peter Emmons. ''Artist at Large'', died unexpectedly on October 19th. He was 36. Survived by his parents Hugh and Roberta; siblings Laura (Robert), Gregory, Maren (Rick), Tria (Bradley) and nieces Lera, Jamie, Jessie and nephew Aaron. A celebration of Peter's life will be held on No
 WHITE-John S. New York City Opera mourns the passing of one of its most esteemed and cherished company members, John White. Born in Vienna, he joined the company in 1946 as its first language coach and went on to serve the City Opera as a stage director, administrator and, from 1970 until h
 Anthony Shaffer, the British playwright whose jokey but chilling thriller ''Sleuth'' ran for more than 2,300 performances in London's West End and more than 2,000 on Broadway, died in London on Tuesday. He was 75. A deadly tale of bluff and double bluff between an aging, vain detect
 HUGGARD-Stephen F., 86, of Bayside, NY, formerly of Malba (Whitestone), NY, died at home on November 10. Mr. Huggard is mourned by Anne Shanley Huggard, his wife of 62 years, his children Stephen F. and Bonnie Huggard of San Diego, CA, David and Jane Huggard of Honesdale, PA, and his daught
 MALONEY-William L. 1928-2001. Actor, dancer, teacher of speech, died October 4, 2001 having achieved nearly 73 revolutions around the sun. A Mass of Christian Burial was celebrated October 8, at St. John's R.C. Church, Center Moriches. Interment followed at Calverton National Cemetery. He s
 McMAHON-Gavin. On September 11, 2001, World Trade Center at age 35. Loving son of Terence and Linda McMahon. Also survived by John and Maureen Sproha, Bertha Stirling, Maurice and Geraldine McMahon, Bridget Fitzpatrick and numerous cousins. Funeral Mass at St. Henry's Church, Avenue C betwe
 McVEIGH-Joseph Edward. On November 9, 2001. Dear husband of Denise Finn McVeigh and beloved father of Brendan. Reposing Monday 2-5 and 7-9 pm Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave., NYC. Mass of Christian Burial Epiphany R.C. Church Tuesday 10 am. Contributions in his memory may be made to T
 MIDDENDORF-George A. Of Melville, NY, on November 8. Born July 8, 1919, in New York. Graduate Dartmouth College 1941. Married July 6, 1946, to Barbara Lloyd. Served as Lt. in US Army 1941-1945, stationed in New Guinea and Australia. Executive Editor Harper and Row for 39 years. Predeceased 
 SHULMAN-Max L. Of Manhattan, died on Friday, November 10, 2001, at his home. He was 93. Mr. Shulman was President and Chairman of J.W. Mays Department Stores. Mr. Shulman was born October 18, 1908, in New York City to Jacob and Dora Silberman Shulman. He was educated in Brooklyn, NY, and gr
 John Simon White, a mainstay of the Vienna-born triumvirate that steered the New York City Opera to its berth as an important repertory company and proving ground for young American singers, died last Tuesday in Sarasota, Fla., where he had moved from Manhattan in July. He was 91. M
 COOK-Frederick H. Age 86 of Liberty Corner, N.J. formerly of New Vernon, N.J. on November 7, 2001. Retired CEO of Purolator, Inc., Dillon, Read and Co., Inc. and Congoleum Nairn. Beloved husband of Beryl (Anderson) Cook, devoted father of Susan C. Murray and Nancy C. O'Brasky, brother of Ro
 FAMIGHETTI-Joseph P. The Partners, Attorneys, and Staff of Certilman Balin Adler & Hyman, LLP are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and valued partner, Joseph Famighetti. Joe was a highly-regarded expert in the field of Criminal Law. He brought years of law enforcement exper
 FAY-Lawrence F. Of Bedford, NY, died on November 11, 2001, at Rosary Hill Home. He was 72. He was a partner at the law firm of Kent, Hazzard, Jaeger, Wilson, Fay & Conroy, in White Plains, NY, where he worked for 44 years. He was born on July 5, 1929 in the Bronx, to Lawrence R. and Mary (D
 KOENIG-Lawrence Jerome, 79. Passed away on November 11, 2001. Loving husband of Hannah for 57 years, adored father of Susan & husband Daniel Dengate, Bruce Koening and cherished grandfather of Raegan Koenig, Craig and Bradley Martin. He was a devoted husband, father, grandfather and friend 
 KUGHELMAN-Solomon (Sasha). We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 LARKIN-Edward Joseph. Age 67. Died suddenly November 11, 2001. Devoted husband to Patricia (nee Tarpey). Loving father to his nine children, Eileen, Kathleen, Kevin, Patricia, Mary, Thomas, Maureen, Elizabeth and Colleen. Second father to John, Jill, Billy, Joey, Lisa and John. ''G'' to Edw
 LEWIN-Herman. Beloved husband of Hortense for 55 years, on November 11. Devoted brother of Eva Gruenberg & the late Hanna Linn. Cherished brother-in-law of Lisa and Ralph Mariam. Adored by his six nieces and nephews. Services will be held 12:00 noon today at Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer Memoria
 McCRACKEN-John E. The Amateur Comedy Club records with sorrow the passing on November 4th of its esteemed Retired Member. Elected in 1951, John was a gentleman and loyal member of the Club, and will be missed. Our sincere condolences to his family. There will be a memorial service at Fifth 
 MINTZ-Arthur A., M.D. Age 86. Died November 11, 2001 at home in Hollis, Queens. He graduated from Columbia University in 1942, and received his Medical Degree in 1945 from N.Y. Flower Fifth Avenue Medical School. He served in the U.S. Navy from 1942 to 1947, and remained in the Reserves for
 PLINUS-Seymour M. On November 11, 2001, after a prolonged illness. A wonderful and devoted son. Beloved brother, brother-inlaw, uncle and grand-uncle. Esteemed member of the Harry S. Truman Lodge of the Masonic Order. He was a lovable human being who will be dearly missed.       
 RAVITZ-Gerald., D.P.M. 69. Of Smithtown, Y, on November 11, 2001. Loving husband of Thelma for 44 years. Adored and devoted father of Marjorie, Stephen and Suzanne, and father-in-law of Jeff and Elliot. Beloved grandfather of two grandsons. An all great guy & he will be missed tremendously.
 SCHILIT-Bernard (Barry). On November 11, 2001 of New York City and Fire Island, NY. Beloved father of Lisa, Rebecca & William. Loving grandfather of Arielle, Leah, Kirk, and Nell. Devoted brother of Claire, Irving, Mildred & the late Charles. Born September 7, 1923 in Poland and came to thi
 SCHWARTZ-Arthur. On November 10, 2001 at Albany, NY. Beloved husband of Millie Bernstein Schwartz. Loving father of Steven Schwartz and his wife, Lois, of New City, NY, and Dr. Laura Kagan and her husband, Dr. Richard Kagan of Delmar, NY. Brother of Jerry Schwartz of Victoria, British Colum
 SHULMAN-Max. The Board and Staff of The American Friends of The Israel Museum and The Israel Museum, Jerusalem, are deeply saddened by the death of Major Max Schulman, National Committee Member, and original founder of The Israel Museum, and a longtime patron and supporter. The Schulmans he
 WEISS-William M. November 12, 2001, in Palm Beach, FL, at age 94. Survived by his loving son, Laddie, and daughter-in-law Fraya Karsh, two beloved grandsons, Maxwell and Robert, and two adoring great-grandchildren, Jake and Jessica. Service today, 11:30AM, ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and
 Dr. David Moody Hopkins, an arctic geologist and leading authority on the land link that allowed ice age hunters to pursue their mammoth and mastodon prey from Siberia to Alaska nearly 12,000 years ago, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 79. The cause was kidney
 FAY-Lawrence F. Of Bedford, NY, died on November 11, 2001, at Rosary Hill Home. He was 72. He was a partner at the law firm of Kent, Hazzard, Jaeger, Wilson, Fay & Conroy, in White Plains, NY, where he worked for 44 years. He was born on July 5, 1929 in the Bronx, to Lawrence R. and Mary (D
 FEINBERG-Abner W. On 8 November 2001 our Dad died in Scottsdale, Arizona of pneumonia at age 96 after seventy years of ardent involvement with the legal profession, 50 in active practice and 20 more as a special student at Arizona State University College of Law. Dad graduated from Columbia
 HANLEY-George P. Of Millwood, NY, on November 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Mary Jane (nee Opris). Devoted father of Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Michael and Mary. Also survived by eight grandchildren. George received a B.S. in Economics from Mt. St. Mary's College, served in the US Army as a t
 LARKIN-Edward Joseph. Age 67. Died suddenly November 11, 2001. Devoted husband to Patricia (nee Tarpey). Loving father to his nine children, Eileen, Kathleen, Kevin, Patricia, Mary, Thomas, Maureen, Elizabeth and Colleen. Second father to John, Jill, Billy, Joey, Lisa and John. ''G'' to Edw
 LOW-Arthur J. On November 12, 2001. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Peter and Peggy Low, and Babette R. Low, C.S.W., and Alan Lintz. Adoring grandfather of Amy and David Chasen and John Low. Retired long-time member of the New York Stock Exchange and pasthistorian of its Butto
 McSHANE-Terence A. Of West Islip, L.I. Died heroically in the line of duty at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Devoted husband of Cathy. Adored father of Aidan, Sean and Colin. Cherished son of Jeanne and the late John P. McShane. Beloved brother of Kieran M. McShane, Brian McS
 RAVITZ-Gerald., D.P.M. 69. Of Smithtown, N.Y. on November 11, 2001. Loving husband of Thelma for 44 years. Adored and devoted father of Marjorie, Stephen and Suzanne, and father-in-law of Jeff and Elliot. Beloved grandfather of two grandsons. An all-around, great guy and he will be missed t
 ROBINSON-Hubert S. (Robbie) 1919-2001. In loving memory of a cherished friend and colleague. Robbie will be remembered by the former production staff of Dell-Publishing Co. for his wisdom, patience and humanity. Our deepest sympathy to his loving family, wife Evelyn, daughters, Karen, Donna
 ROSS-Benjamin (Ben). Of Boca Raton, FL formerly of Great Neck, NY. Died peacefully on November 12. Husband of the late Ruth, loving father of Barbara Block and Kathy Adams, father-in-law of Seymour Block and Eric Adams, grandfather of Robert, Stacy, Alexandra, Todd and Joseph, and great gra
 SHULMAN-Major Max L. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a former member of the Benjamin N. Cardozo of Law Board of Directors and a dear and distinguished friend. He was chairman of J.W. Mays Department Stores who, with his beloved wife, Sylvia, was a YU Guardian. We
 TOLLEY-Rev. William G., 75. Of Cape May, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn. He was retired Presbyterian minister of Union Church of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Rev. Tolley is survived by wife of 55 years, Rev. Jo Tolley; four daughters, Joyce Tolley Weiskopf, Kim E. Gibbons, Carol Hastings, and Cindy Tolle
 WOJCAK-Randy. The Board of Directors, staff & volunteers of God's Love We Deliver are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend & former Board member, Randy Wojcak. Randy was always an active Board member & committee participant, & we are grateful to have known his dedication & loyal suppor
 Ray Kelly, who fulfilled the fantasy of every American boy when he became Babe Ruth's mascot and sat in the Yankees' dugout in a pinstripe uniform when Murderers' Row ruled the baseball world, died Sunday at his home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, h
 Tom Dardis, a biographer whose work was enriched by his own experiences, died on Nov. 2 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. The cause was respiratory failure, said his wife, Ellen Ervin. Mr. Dardis's book
 Albert Hague, a popular composer whose work included his Tony award-winning score for the 1959 musical ''Redhead,'' the much-recorded standard ''Young and Foolish'' and the soundtrack for last year's film ''How the Grinch Stole Christmas,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Marina del Rey, Ca
 Cornelius (Dutch) Warmerdam, the greatest pole-vaulter in the era before fiberglass poles changed the sport and the first man to clear 15 feet, died Tuesday in Fresno, Calif. He was 86. He had Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported. Before there was a Sergei Bubk
 Dr. George Alfred Kiersch, a geologist who used his expertise to find the proper sites for large-scale projects like dams and power plants and then built them, died on Oct. 19 in Tucson, Ariz., where he lived in retirement. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his fami
 Michael DeMarco, who was the longest-serving city councilman in New York when he resigned in 1997 to become a New York State Supreme Court judge, died on Sunday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 65. He died of liver cancer, his family said. Mr. DeMarco, a Democrat who was s
 Nathan M. Pusey, who led Harvard University through tremendous growth and liberalization only to be swept away in a storm over Vietnam-era protests, died yesterday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived on the East Side. In Dr. Pusey's tenure as Harvard's
 FRALEY-Donald Symons, Jr., M.D. The Renal-Electrolyte Division and the Department of Medicine of the University of Pittsburgh mourn the passing of Dr. Donald S. Fraley, a cherished friend and exemplary physician. He was a faculty member for 26 years who served as a medical ICU director and 
 SANTALA-Timo. The principals, employees, and friends of Jacmel Jewelry and Soloro Manufacturing are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend Timo Santala. We were fortunate enough to have Timo join Jacmel as the Director of Manufacturing in June 1996. He brought many years of experience in
 SHULMAN-Max L. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Major Max L. Shulman, dedicated ACWIS board member; President's Circle member; benefactor of the Joe and Celia Weinstein Scholarship; & avid supporter of the Weizmann Institute. We extend heart
 STAMBAUGH-Randolph U. On October 26, 2001 at age 90. Former president of B. Altman & Co., New York City. Survived by his wife, Mary Clark Stambaugh; his two daughters, Anne Satterthwaite (Henry), and Dana Semeraro (Richard); three grandchildren, Dana Amy Jonson, Randolph Jonson, and Kenneth
 WOJACK-Randy. The Board of Directors, Staff and Volunteers of Gay Men's Health Crisis mourn the passing of our esteemed former Board member and volunteer Randy Wojack. A memorial to honor his life and spirit will be held at GMHC on November 19 at 6 P.M. Donations in Randy's name may be made
 ZEITLIN-Ferrin. The Parkway Hospital is deeply saddened for the Zeitlin family on the loss of Ferrin Randall Zeitlin who lost his brave battle with cancer. He was 24 years old. Ferrin was the beloved son of Dr. and Mrs. Alan Zeitlin, adored brother of Brigitte, treasured grandson of Herbert
 David W. Brumbaugh, a former Time Inc. executive who played a role in the adoption of ZIP codes, died on Saturday at a hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 93 and lived in Glen Head, N.Y. Mr. Brumbaugh joined Time Inc. in 1933 and became executive vice president, treasurer and
 Bob Eckhardt, who survived for 14 years in Congress as a liberal Democrat from Houston despite a constituency that was considerably to his right politically, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex., his hometown. He was 88. His family said Mr. Eckhardt had suffered a series of strokes.     
 Frank Messer, the straight arrow announcer of Yankee games for 18 seasons, died Tuesday at his home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He was 76. He died of heart problems, but also had lupus, said Rebecca Messer, his former wife. Messer replaced Joe Garagiola on the Yankee television
 BENARDETE-Seth. On November 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Jane. Loving father of Ethan and Alexandra Emma. Dear brother of Jose and Diego. Professor of Classics at NYU and Philosophy at the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research. He was the author of many articles, translatio
 BENDEWALD-Mervin H. November 13, 2001. Born in eastern Montana to a ranching/homesteading family 68 years ago. Merv settled in the West Village after college and two years in the army. For nearly thirty-five years, he has been a mainstay to the Hudson Street community with a variety of ente
 BROWN-Richard Howard. On November 8. A pioneer of credit card electronic reservations for the hospitality industry as co-founder of Telemax in the 1950's. Later turned his marketing skills to the performing arts with an innovative concept of cluster management for small to medium-sized perf
 COHN-Samuel. Of Newton, MA. Formerly of New York City, died peacefully at home November 14, 2001, 18 days short of his 104 birthday. Devoted husband of the late Dora (Goldman), father of Geraldine Morse of Newton and Marilyn Schwartz of Boston. Grandfather of Ruth Morse Collini of Cambridge
 ELSNER-Allan S. 85. Died Sunday November 11, 2001. Allan attended Williams College and was the owner and operator of a bookshop in New York City until his retirement several years ago. He leaves his brothers Morton, James and Robert, several nieces and nephews. Graveside services will be he
 GLASCOE-Keith Alexander. A firefighter for three and-a-half years with the Fire Department of New York Ladder Company 21, was tragically lost with that Company's entire squad in the horrific collapse of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. He was 38. Born in San Francisco, CA, Mr. 
 GOCHMAN-Mervin, CLU. 70, of Sarasota, FL. Died on November 13, 2001. Adored husband of Barbara. Loving father of Carla, Matthew and Enid. Brother of Stanley. Grandfather of Olivia. 1948 graduate of Samuel J. Tilden H.S., Brooklyn, NY. Received BA and MBA from CCNY. Built a distinguished car
 KELLER-Morris, 91 years old. On November 15, 2001. Morris, beloved husband of Ann, for 67 years, devoted father of Sylvia (and Dr. Fredric) Brownstein of Longmeadow, MA., and Larry (and Lisa) Keller of Santa Fe, NM. Grandfather of Bryna (and Alan) Klevan, Dr. Ilana Brownstein, Max Beck-Kell
 KREINCES-Arthur D., 96 years old, on November 14, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Mollie. Father of Howard and Leonard. Fatherin-law of Sheila and Loraine. Grandfather of Brad and Amy, Robin, Henry and Lisa, Jeffrey and Melissa, Beth and Jeffrey and Edward and Heather. Great grandfather o
 MORRIS - Morton G., D.D.S. Passed away November 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Proud father of Steven & Andrew. Loving grandfather of Alexandra. Uncle of Robert Gewirtz. Practiced as a dentist in Williamsburg, Jackson Heights and Roslyn, N.Y. Ended his long dental career as a devoted
 POCKER-M. Peabody. Passed away November 14, 2001 following a long illness. Beloved by all who knew him. He is survived by his soulmate and life-long companion Lily Pocker and his grieving family, Richard and Beth Pocker of Pound Ridge, N.Y., Audrey and Marvin Pocker of New Rochelle, N.Y., S
 PUSEY-Nathan. The Board and staff of the Neighborhood Coalition for Shelter recall Nathan Pusey with great fondness. His support for providing housing and mental health services helped make it possible for NCS to help thousands of people find a way home. We extend our sincere sympathies to 
 ROUTH-John S., Jr., 81. Of Boca Raton, FL., and Greenwich, CT, passed away on Wednesday, November 14th, 2001. Mr. Routh ''Jack'' was President of the Pittston Coal Company and Founder and Owner of the Manhattan Coal Company. Mr. Routh is survived by his wife, Dorothy, six children, Rylee Ro
 STALLMAN-Daniel J., 77. Died November 14, 2001. Predeceased by his parents Frieda Kranz & Charles Stallman. and son Adam S. Stallman. Survived by his wife Ada Stallman of Binghamton, NY; son Richard M. Stallman, Cambridge, MA; daughter Claudia E. Stallman, Christine M. Coveney & grandson Be
 STATES - Edward. 42 - year - old Plainsboro father of two, was the Captain of the A300 Airbus that crashed in New York Monday, November 12, 2001. Ed was a Captain for 10 of his 16 years with American Airlines. Ed was born in Hackensack, NJ and grew up in Park Ridge, NJ. He and his family ha
 Dr. Franz P. Hoskins, a Navy officer in World War II who took part in a storied appendectomy aboard a submarine years before he went to medical school, died on Nov. 8 in Kingsport, Tenn. He was 86. On Sept. 11, 1942, at a depth of 120 feet in the China Sea, a pharmacist's mate and a
 Maxwell White Hunter, a rocket engineer, project manager and visionary of the space age, died on Nov. 10 at Stanford Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 79 and lived in San Carlos, Calif. The cause was complications from  a fall, his family said. Working at the Douglas Airc
 COHN-Samuel. Of Newton, MA. Formerly of New York City, died peacefully at home November 14, 2001, 18 days short of his 104 birthday. Devoted husband of the late Dora (Goldman), father of Geraldine Morse of Newton and Marilyn Schwartz of Boston. Grandfather of Ruth Morse Collini of Cambridge
 JELLIFFE-George C. Of Manchester-By-the-Sea, MA., died in his sleep November 14th in the Oakwood Retirement Home. He was 93. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Mr. Jelliffe attended Stevens Prep and graduated from Stevens Institute of Technology with an advanced degree in Mechanical Engineering. He
 LEWIS-Ogden Northrop, Jr. Suddenly on November 14, 2001, at age 22. Cherished son of Ogden and Susan Lewis, adored nephew of Margaret Patterson High and William Hall Lewis, III. Beloved by countless friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to The Buckley School, 113 East 73 
 OSTROW-Barney. It is with deepest sorrow that we announce the passing on November 14, 2001 of our beloved husband, father, father-in-law, poppie, brother, uncle, cousin and friend and all around inspiration. Barney was born on the Lower Eastside of New York City of Russian, Jewish immigrant
 SANDERS-Byron Reginald. Died on November 12, 2001. He was deeply cherished by his companion, Renee Fisherman, and her daughters and sons-inlaw, Jennifer and Michael Ruff and Jean Bass and Josh Konecky. Beloved uncle of Betsy & Manny Canari. He will be deeply missed by those whose lives he p
 SARLI-R. Stephen, 49. Of Paradise Valley, AZ, passed away on Nov. 13, 2001. He was born in Kansas City, MO. Steve was CEO President of Emerald Coast Financial and also the managing member of Lighthouse Financial Group, LLC. Steve has been a prominent member of the Scottsdale and Paradise Va
 SKLOVER-Richard Tuck. November 15, 2001. Deeply loved husband of Maxine. Worshipped father of Leesa & Andy. Adoring father-inlaw of Michael & Lauren. Beloved Papa to Emma & Marley. The kindest, most contented man anyone ever knew. He wanted to be or envied no one else. A gentleman, intellig
 SOLBERT-Peter O.A. Age 82, on November 15, 2001 at his home in LLoyd Harbor, New York. Senior Counsel to the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardwell. He is survived by his loving wife, Deborah (nee Kirk), and his children Leslie K. Fogg, Alan G.K. Solbert, Elizabeth A. Solbert-Sheldon, Alison C.
 TAUSS-Herb. The officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved Hall of Fame member Herb Tauss. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 WEIANT-Monroe Alden, 97. Of Red Bank, formerly of Westfield and Metuchen, NJ. Mr. Weiant's wife Lois, of 66 years, predeceased him in 1997. He is survived by two sons, Monroe Alden Weiant, Jr. of Trumbull, CT and William Weiant of Red Bank, NJ., four grandchildren, Bruce Weiant, Susan Smith
 STAR-Leon D., M.D. In everlasting memory of a loving husband, father and grandfather on his birthday.       
 Panama Francis, a drummer who played for dancers through the glory years of swing in high-profile bands  like Lucky Millinder's, Cab Calloway's and Slim Gaillard's, played on countless rhythm-and-blues and rock 'n' roll sessions and  became a standard-bearing swing-nostalgia musician, died 
 Albert C. Todd, a professor of European languages and literatures who edited and translated poetry by his friend the Russian poet Yevgeny Yevtushenko, interpreted for him and once physically defended him from attackers, died on Nov. 9 in a Queens nursing home. He was 74 and lived in Flushin
 Melvin Burkhart, a legendary sideshow performer who billed himself as the Human Blockhead and proved it by hammering nails and spikes up his nose in front of millions of Americans in thousands of places -- from the 1939 World's Fair to countless dusty midways to the Coney Island boardwalk t
 ADELHART-Andrew J. It is with deep sorrow and affection that the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen of the City of New York records the passing on November 8, 2001, of our member and Past President (1977), Andrew J. Adelhart. For many years he served the Society in numerous capaciti
 BENARDETE-Seth. On November 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Jane. Loving father of Ethan and Alexandra Emma. Dear brother of Jose and Diego. Professor of Classics at NYU and Philosophy at the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research. He was the author of many articles, translatio
 CHARBONNEAU-Don C. Of New York on November 4, 2001. Born in St. Paul, Minnesota on June 26, 1915. Served US Army South Pacific during WW II, was decorated five times. Director of Education in NYC for American Cancer Society. Director of PR and Mobile Mammogram Program at Guttman Institute. 
 GOUNAROPOULOS-Nicholas. Beloved husband of Maria, father of Jason and Liza, grandfather of Alexander and Aphrodite, brother of Alkistis & Marika. Died Friday, November 16, 2001 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan with his wife. Born in Cairo, Egypt of Greek parents, Nic
 GROSE-John Lewis. Of Locust Valley, NY, on October 25, 2001 at age 88. Loving husband of the late Barbara Houston. He is survived by a son, Peter Lewis, a daughter, Judith Grose-Johnson, by nine grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. A second son, John Francis, passed away in October 19
 HARTMANN-Wayne J. Of Bedford, NY died November 14, 2001. He was 85 years old. Beloved husband of Ruth, loving father of Ann Miller, Elizabeth Hartmann, D.V.M. and Wayne Hartmann, Jr. ''Jud''. Services were held at St. Matthew's Church in Bedford.       
 HORMAN-Joseph J. Of Kingwood, TX, formerly of New York, on November 12. Born in East New York, Brooklyn, Mr. Horman chose to leave the relative security of the family business to serve as a member of New York's Finest, the NYPD. His meteoric rise from rookie cop at Manhattan's 14th Precinct
 LEWIS-Ogden Northrop, Jr. Suddenly on November 14, 2001, at age 22. Cherished son of Ogden and Susan Lewis, adored nephew of Margaret Patterson High and William Hall Lewis, III. Beloved by countless friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to The Buckley School, 113 East 73 
 McCOOEY-Robert H. Of Rye, NY, and Sea Island, GA, on Friday, November 16, 2001. Born Brooklyn, NY, October 14, 1930, to Herbert and Elizabeth (Larney) McCooey. Grandson of the late John H. McCooey, political leader of Brooklyn for 25 years. Beloved husband of Mary Catherine (Joyce), devoted
 ROBINSON-Hubert S. (Robbie) 1919-2001. In loving memory of a cherished friend and colleague. Robbie will be remembered by the former production staff of Dell-Publishing Co. for his wisdom, patience and humanity. Our deepest sympathy to his loving family, wife Evelyn, daughters, Karen, Donna
 SAPERSTEIN-Rabbi Harold I. 90. Beloved husband of Marcia (nee Rosenblum), devoted father of Marc and Roberta Saperstein, David Saperstein and Ellen Weiss; loving grandfather of Sara and Stephen Frug, Adina, Daniel, and Ari Saperstein. Cherished brother of Rabbi Sanford and Leah Saperstein a
 SCHULKIND-Joseph. On November 16, 2001. Beloved husband of Sylvia and the late Eleanor. Loving father of Nancy and Marcus. Cherished grandfather of Wendy, Jonathan and Eric. Service Sunday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. The family will be at the home of Dr. Nancy Ro
 SHERWOOD-Arthur R., Ph.D. Age 84, of Stratford, CT. Beloved husband of Marie T. (Tangney) Sherwood, died Friday, November 16, 2001. Dr. Sherwood received his B.S. and M.B.A. and Ph.D. from New York University, and was a professor at the New York University School of Business. He was born in
 SHULMAN-Max L. Passed away peacefully in his 93rd year on November 10, 2001. Beloved husband and life partner for 63 years of Sylvia (nee Weinstein). Proud father of Lloyd J. & Gail Koster. Loving grandfather of Melinda and Jonathan Koster. Caring brother of Ethel Weiss. He retired as Chair
 SIMOWITZ-Barry. One among thousands of unknown heroes who lost their lives on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Barry was a CPA & was an auditor for New York State Taxation and Finance on the 87th floor of Tower 2. Barry served in the U.S. Air Force from 1954 to 1958. Barry is s
 SKLOVER-Dick. Memories. 22 Street/152/Cut/Stickball/Avenue J/ Punchball and marbles/Midwood and all the little things we shared for 63 years-The Forty Niners-so long dear friend. Friends forever. Love Judy, Les and all the Genatts. SKLOVER-Richard Tuck. November 15, 2001. Deeply lov
 SOLBERT-Peter O.A. Age 82, on November 15, 2001 at his home in LLoyd Harbor, New York. Senior Counsel to the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardwell. He is survived by his loving wife, Deborah (nee Kirk), and his children Leslie K. Fogg, Alan G.K. Solbert, Elizabeth A. Solbert-Sheldon, Alison C.
 STALLMAN-Daniel J., 77. Died November 14, 2001. Predeceased by his parents Frieda Kranz & Charles Stallman. and son Adam S. Stallman. Survived by his wife Ada Stallman of Binghamton, NY; son Richard M. Stallman, Cambridge, MA; daughter Claudia E. Stallman, Christine M. Coveney & grandson Be
 VANESEN-John Sicher. Of New York City, age 63, died November 13, 2001. Beloved friend of Susan Lampert. Brother of Penny Kohn Craig, Stephen (Tommy Van Esen). Uncle of Molly, Alex and Jenny. John grew up in White Plains, graduated from NYU, received a masters in bio-psychology from Hunter C
 WHOLEY-Michael. The family of Port Authority Police Officer Michael T. Wholey would like to extend our heartfelt thanks to all the kind and thoughtful people who gave of their time, love and support to us after the loss of Michael in the World Trade Center attack. The many offerings of food
 TRACT-Harold M. Of Blessed Memory. Passed away November 18, 1991. He was a truly noble man.       
 BOMEISLER-Robert Evans, 78, on November 12, 2001, in Santa Monica, CA, of Multiple Myeloma. Born in Santa Monica on December 18, 1922, son of New Yorkers Kathryn and Louis Edwin Bomeisler, Jr., ''Bo'' was a man of many gifts and passions, which he shared freely with family and friends. A WW
 DEVER-Martin J. Age 85, of Wyckoff, NJ, died Saturday, November 17, 2001. Born in New York City, he lived in Ridgewood and Wyckoff, NJ, for 45 years. He retired in 1986 as the Managing Partner after 39 years with Mendes & Mount, Attorneys, New York, NY. Martin was a member of Downtown Athle
 KLEIN-William ''Bill.'' 84, died Saturday, November 17, 2001. William, known as Bill to everyone, owned and operated William Klein Jewelers, a family business in New York City. He was a prominent jeweler and diamond setter to the trade and his work was of the highest caliber. He was so well
 LEWIS-Ogden Northrop, Jr. Suddenly on November 14, 2001, at age 22. Cherished son of Ogden and Susan Lewis, adored nephew of Margaret Patterson High and William Hall Lewis, III. Beloved by countless friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to The Buckley School, 113 East 73 
 McCOOEY-Robert H. The Sisters of Charity, the Board of Trustees, and Administration of the New York Foundling Hospital express their sorrow and sympathy to the McCooey family on the loss of the beloved Robert H. McCooey. As a trustee of the New York Foundling Hospital for 27 years, he was t
 NORTON - Brother Adelbert James, F.S.C. 83, of Lincroft, NJ, on November 17, 2001. His teaching assignments included Bishop Loughlin High School, Brooklyn, where he was Head of the English Department from 1950 to 1952, and Manhattan College where he was Head of the Education Department and 
 RAUCH-R. Stewart. 87, at his home in Bryn Mawr, PA, November 16, 2001, after a brief illness. Born in Villanova, PA, on July 15, 1914, he attended the Montgomery Country Day School and graduated from St. Paul's School, Concord, NH. A member of the Class of 1936 at Princeton Unversity, he wa
 ROTH-Nathaniel. Age 89, on November 18, 2001. Adored husband of Sophie and the late Dorothy. Cherished father of Vivian and the late Steven. Beloved brother of Esther and Martin. Devoted grandfather, great-grandfather, father-in-law, uncle, stepfather and brother-in-law. Teacher, photograph
 SAPERSTEIN-Rabbi Harold I. The officers, Board of Directors and congregants of Temple Emanu-El of Lynbrook sorrowfully record the passing of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus who served our congregation with love and dedication for over 47 years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Marcia, Rabb
 Satguru Sivaya Subramuniya swami, a native Californian who sought spiritual meaning in India as a young man and became the spiritual leader of Sri Lankan Hindus, died on Tuesday at his ashram on the Hawaiian island of Kauai. He was 74. Satguru Sivaya Subramuniya swami (soo-bra-MOON-
 Tommy Flanagan, a jazz pianist who with a classic trio set a high standard for elegance in mainstream postwar jazz, died Friday night at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was an arterial aneurysm, said his wife, Diane Flanagan. Mr. Flanagan
 Harrison A. Williams Jr., the Democratic senator from New Jersey who used his considerable power to further the interests of labor and education before being convicted of bribery and conspiracy in the Abscam scandal, died on Saturday. He was 81 and lived in Bedminster. Dr. Bruce Min
 BELTZ-Paul L. Died September 17, 2001, survived by his loving wife Pat, daughter Ellin and granddaughter Eloise. While in New York, Paul worked with the New York Convention Bureau, Loews Hotels and Hilton Hotels. Also active with Lions Club of N.Y. After moving to Chicago, he continued with
 BROWN-Jordan S., MD, died November 5, 2001. The trustees, faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Jordan S. Brown, MD, Professor of Urology. A 1954 graduate of NYU School of Medicine and member of the Department of Urology for more than 40 
 EISENMAN-James A. Died on November 16, 2001, after a long illness. Survived by wife Jan, three daughters, Jan, June and Nancy and a brother, Alvin. Services Saturday, December 8, at St. John's Church, Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., at 11:30 A.M. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory may be 
 FORTEZA-Anthony S., born May 24, 1951, died on November 12, 2001 aboard Flight 587. Among the things he loved were fishing, wine, cigars, his family and friends. He was a husband, a father and a friend to many. He will be greatly missed by his friends and co-workers at KPMG, and those he sp
 FRANCIS-Panama. All his greatness, yet a humble man. A wonderful human being. We share in the loss with his lovely wife Alyce, their family and the music world. Susan and Larry Bauman       
 FREY-Dr. George F. Age 81. A resident of Syosset, NY and a Professor Emeritus of CW Post College in Brookville, NY died on September 22, 2001 at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, NY. The cause was complications arising from emphysema. After serving four years in the US Army air corp during Wo
 GOMPERTS-Philip J. Of Stamford, CT died Friday at Edge Hill. Husband of Joop Truyens Gomperts, father of Robert Gomperts, Willie Hayduk, Grandfather of six, Great Grandfather of six. He was Knighted in the Order of Orange Nassua on September 21, 1965 by Queen Juliana.       
 HEILBRUNN-Robert H. On November 18, 2001, at age 93. Loving and devoted husband of Harriet, married for 67 years. Beloved father of Helaine Lerner and Joan Rechnitz. Adored grandfather of Emily and her husband John Paladino, Adam and Joshua Rechnitz. Great-grandfather of Max Paladino. Fathe
 JANOFSKY-Albert. Beloved husband of Rachel, loving father of Dr. Elliott and Betty Janofsky and Sally and Michael Hipscher. Devoted grandfather of Steven, Joel and Lorraine, Karen and Jenny. Adored great-grandfather of Emma Rose. Devoted to family, country, religion, community and loved his
 KETTLES-Gilbert Parmele. Of White Plains, NY, formerly of Mamaroneck, NY died November 16, 2001 at the age of 75. Born on April 2, 1926 in New York, he was the son of the late Emilie F. Parmele and Francis Kettles and a predeceased brother, Frank. Mr. Kettles was prominent in the packaging 
 KRANE-Robert. We mourn the loss of our friend and colleague. Our deepest and sincerest sympathies to his family. Mitchell and Ronda Benson KRANE-Robert.....Great guy. Dale & Doug       
 McCOOEY-Robert H. The Lincoln Hall Board of Managers mourns the passing of our beloved Board member, Robert H. McCooey. Bob faithfully served on the Board for 41 years. He initiated the Scholarship program at the Hall and in his role as Chairman of the Scholarship Committee, Bob was instrum
 MITCHELL-Richard of Sea Island, Georgia passed away November 18. Mr. Mitchell was a former resident of Larchmont, NY. Also a pioneer in the direct mail industry starting his career in 1968. He was president of Qualified Lists a division of the Walter Karl Co. in Armonk, NY. He is survived b
 MOINESTER-Louis. (Formerly of New York City.) Beloved husband of Roslyn. Devoted father of June. Brother of Isaac. Brother-in-law of Sterna & David Weisinger. Uncle to Dena Shelley, Nina Moinester, Ron Weisinger and Judy Ziegler. A kind, gentle, unassuming, charitable man who never expected
 SAPERSTEIN-Harold, Rabbi. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of a giant in the rabbinate. Harold Sapperstein had a legendary career as Rabbi of Temple Emanuel in Lynbrook. Later, he served as Rabbi of our congregation in the painful transition period following the deat
 SCHWARZ-Preston S., 75. Died Nov. 19, 2001. He grew up and lived in White Plains, NY. So deeply loved by his wife of 52 years Jane, daughters, Nanci Lottner & Barbara Mallaney, son-in-laws, Gene Lottner and William Mallaney, granddaughter Brynn Lottner, and brother Donald. Preston was respe
 SCRIBNER-Howard A. Jr. A wonderful guy! Irrepressible, irreverent, an iconoclast. One never had to resort to guesswork to know where Howard stood on any matter; he told you without circumlocution or embroidery regardless of your station. Howard was our friend and advisor for many years and 
 SHULMAN-Max L. Women's League for Israel mourns the loss of Maj. Max L. Shulman, a generous benefactor and friend. We extend to his wife, Sylvia and his family, our heartfelt sympathy. Harriet Lainer, President       
 SNYDER-Henry. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Henry Snyder, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 VANESEN-John Sicher. Died November 13, 2001. Contributions in his name may be made to Barrier Free Living, 270 East 2nd St, NYC 10009, Attn: Lewis Likits. For URL to future memorial website contact PennyCraig@aol.com. Think of John on Fechner Day, April 19.       
 WALSH-Dr. George V., 78, November 8, 2001, Salisbury, MD. Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Salisbury University. He was a graduate of Williams, Brown, and Princeton. He also taught at Hobart and Eisenhower. He leaves his wife, Catherine, three children, Michael, Maraed and Amy, grandchil
 Augustus C. Long, a former chief executive of Texaco, who guided the company's international expansion in the 1950's and 60's, died last Thursday at his home in North, Va. He was 97. A tough-talking graduate of the Naval Academy, Mr. Long joined Texaco in 1930, when it was known as 
 Billy Vessels, the University of Oklahoma running back who won the 1952 Heisman Trophy in an era when Sooner teams coached by Bud Wilkinson dominated college football, died last Saturday at his home in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 70. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wi
 Jerry Jerome, a tenor saxophone player who was a featured soloist with the Glenn Miller, Benny Goodman, Red Norvo and Artie Shaw orchestras in the Big Band era, died at his home here on Saturday. He was 89. Mr. Jerome later became a successful musical director and conductor on radio
 AMORY-Thomas Carhart. Passed away November 18, 2001 from complications from a long battle with Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. He was born in New York City on October 29, 1933. Mr. Amory was the only child of George Sullivan Amory and Marion Renee Carhart Amory. He attended the Buckley Scho
 DRADDY-James J. We mourn the passing of our retired Board Chairman, the affable and supremely dedicated Jim Draddy. How he reveled in the ''Miracle of Daytop'' (his words) as once hopeless youngsters emerged as sparkling, highly motivated young men and women. His presence in our lives was a
 EISENMAN-James A. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory extends its deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Jim Eisenman. Jim, an attorney of counsel to Payne, Wood and Littlejohn, was Director and Treasurer of the Long Island Biological Association at CSHL from 1963 to 1989. He will be deepl
 FRANCIS-Panama. All his greatness, yet a humble man. A wonderful human being. We share in the loss with his lovely wife Alyce, their family and the music world. Susan and Larry Bauman       
 GREENBERG-Joseph. Born June 23, 1915. On November 20, 2001 at 86 years of age. Beloved husband for 61 years of Marilyn (nee Green). Loving father of LouEllen and Mel Barkan and William and Martha Greenberg. Proud grandfather of Tony, Sara, Michael and Rebecca. Great grandfather of Samantha,
 HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The volunteers and staff of the American Diabetes Association and the American Diabetes Association Research Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend, Robert H. Heilbrunn. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Harriet, and to his children and family. Mr. a
 JELLIFFE-George Clark. Of Manchester-By-the-Sea, MA., died in his sleep November 14th in the Oakwood Retirement Home. He was 93. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Mr. Jelliffe attended Stevens Prep and graduated from Stevens Institute of Technology with an advanced degree in Mechanical Engineering
 LEWIS-Ogden Northrop, Jr. Suddenly on November 14, 2001, at age 22. Cherished son of Ogden and Susan Lewis, adored nephew of Margaret Patterson High and William Hall Lewis, III. Beloved by countless friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to The Buckley School, 113 East 73 
 LUCCHESI-Alibrand. November 19, 2001. Beloved husband of Rose. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Friday, November 23, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, November 24, 10AM Our Lady of Pe
 McCOOEY-Robert H. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend, trusted leader and colleague, Robert H. McCooey. His integrity, intelligence, vision, compassion, & humanity made him a remarkable and w
 NICKERSON-Clarke. Died on November 17 of pneumonia. Born to John and Elizabeth Nickerson in New York City 83 years ago, he was an avid sailor with the Noroton Yacht Club in Darien, CT. After graduating from St. Paul's School in 1937 & Hartford's Trinity College in 1941, he joined the U.S. A
 STRUHL-Anne. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Bernard E. Struhl upon the loss of his mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 WALKER-Louis. In Bidderford, ME. On November 17, 2001. Age 89. Of Hobe Sound, FL and Kennebunkport, ME. Graduate of Yale University Class of 1936. WW II veteran. Former investment banker with G.H. Walker & Company, founded by his father, George Herbert Walker, donor of the Walker Cup in gol
 Andrew McNally III, a former president of the map maker Rand McNally & Company, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 92. He was a great-grandson of another Andrew McNally, who was a co-founder of the company in the mid-1800's. The company started out printing tick
 John A. Babarovic, an architect who worked on major airport projects as well as residential architecture, died on Nov. 2 in London, where he lived. He was 69. The cause was complications after heart surgery, his family said. Mr. Babarovic was director of long-range planning 
 John W. Nason, who while president of Swarthmore College during World War II helped get more than 3,000 American students of Japanese descent out of detention camps and place them in institutes of higher learning, died on Saturday in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 96. Mr. Nason was pres
 CLEMENT-Alphonse V. Jr., M.D. Died Nov. 19, 2001 surrounded by his family following a lengthy illness. Born to Dr. Alphonse V. Sr. and Constance Cannella Clement on April 25, 1928. Adored husband of Maryjane. Beloved father of Ardith Colonna (Sal), Jeanine Robotti (Bruno), Debra Clement, Gi
 DeBLASS-Peter Gerard. Retired business owner, died at his home on November 19, 2001. His son Peter Michael, daughter Rachelle, and brother Eugene mourn the passing of their beloved father and brother. Family will receive friends at Ortiz Funeral Home, 235 West 72 St, Friday, November 23, fr
 FRANCIS-Panama. All his greatness, yet a humble man. A wonderful human being. We share in the loss with his lovely wife Alyce, their family and the music world. Susan and Larry Bauman       
 HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The Long Island University family is saddened by the loss of Robert Heilbrunn, a true friend, honorary alumnus and recipient of the University's highest tribute, an honorary doctorate. Together with his beloved wife Harriet, Bob embraced our vision of access and excellen
 KAPLAN-Nancy. The Inn of Court of the Federal Bar Council expresses its profound sorrow at the death of Nancy Kaplan. We extend our deepest sympathies to our colleague, Judge Lewis Kaplan, and his family.       
 KRASNER-Norman L. Died on November 20 in Haifa Israel. Survived by his beloved wife Sondra (nee Wilk), children, Leora, Eitan, Adina & Noah. Brother of Estelle and Daniel. Loving grandfather and great-grandfather. Shiva is in Israel and New Rochelle, NY.       
 LOWENTHAL-Milton, Dr. At age 84, on November 20, 2001. Proud father of Edward, Susan, Jane, Andrew, & Amy. Devoted fatherin-law of Ilene and Sharon. Loving grandfather to Deborah, Jennifer, David, Jared, Lauren, Joshua, Jeremy, Jason, Daniel, and Sarah. Beloved brother of Janet. He was a he
 SHULMAN-Max. The trustees, faculty and staff of NYU Medical Center mourns the passing of our cherished friend, devoted supporter and generous benefactor, Max Shulman. Mr. Shulman provided invaluable support to NYU Medical Center's Department of Urology. He was an exceptional individual who 
 SIMMONS-Samuel I. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 A memorial service has been scheduled for Deputy Chief Raymond M. Downey, who commanded the rescue units of the New York Fire Department and oversaw the search-and-rescue work after the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995. Mr. Downey, who was 63 and lived in Deer Park, N.Y., died in the collapse 
 Robert H. Heilbrunn, an investor and philanthropist, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 93 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He began investing during the Depression and prospered through value investing, which is investing in undervalued securi
 Byron Sanders, an actor in television soaps and the model for Salvador Dali's ''Crucifixion,'' died on Nov. 12 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. He was born Reginald Byron Sanders in Charlotte, N.C., and served in Europe during World War II. After the war
 CLEMENT-Alphonse V. Jr., M.D. Died Nov. 19, 2001 surrounded by his family following a lengthy illness. Born to Dr. Alphonse V. Sr. and Constance Cannella Clement on April 25, 1928. Adored husband of Maryjane. Beloved father of Ardith Colonna (Sal), Jeanine Robotti (Bruno), Debra Clement, Gi
 DIAZ-Victor Manuel, Jr. On November 12, 2001, tragically on Flight 587, who served his country honorably during the Vietnam conflict. He was a New York State civil servant for over 25 years. Victor was a naturalist and an avid competitor of Track and Field at the Master's level. He was a lo
 FRANCIS-Panama. All his greatness, yet a humble man. A wonderful human being. We share in the loss with his lovely wife Alyce, their family and the music world. Susan and Larry Bauman       
 HAWTHORNE-Dr. Edward L. A resident of Cutchogue and formerly of Manhattan died on November 11, 2001. He was 89 years old. A graduate of Columbia University, Dr. Hawthorne in 1951 was appointed the Executive Director of St. Barnabas House, a home for over 600 children in Greenwich Village ru
 JACOBS-Samuel. Age 95, of Palm Beach, Florida, passed away on November 22 in New York City. He is survived by his loving Millie, sisters Mary Bergofin and Kitty Chepovsky, seven grandchildren and their spouses, fourteen greatgrandchildren, his son-in-law Ernest Rubenstein and daughterin-law
 KELLY-Hugh J. Of Olive Bridge, New York, died Nov. 19, 2001. Husband of the late Catherine M. Rice Kelly, father of Sr. Agnes Kelly, OSU, of Kingston, NY, Hugh Jr. of Weston, MA, Edmund of Bedford, NY, Neill of Briarcliff, NY, Daniel of Ossining, NY and the late Christopher Kelly, deceased 
 LEWIS-Ogden Northrop, Jr. Suddenly on November 14, 2001, at age 22. Cherished son of Ogden and Susan Lewis, adored nephew of Margaret Patterson High and William Hall Lewis, III. Beloved by countless friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to The Buckley School, 113 East 73 
 LUCCHESI-Alibrand. November 19, 2001. Beloved husband of Rose. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Friday, November 23, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, November 24, 10AM Our Lady of Pe
 McCOOEY-Robert H. The Behavioral Health Services Board, Administration and Medical Staff of Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers expresses its deep regret upon the passing of Robert H. McCooey. We mourn the loss of a dedicated leader who for 28 years, as member and chairman of our St. Vin
 NEWMAN-Ernest J., 99. Passed away on November 19. Avid music lover, business man, world traveler and good friend to many, he will be deeply missed.       
 VECCHIONE-Edward, Jr. On Nov. 22, 2001 at age 76. Loving brother of Dorothy Martin and cousin of Vincent Lombardi, Marie Pelusso and Lucretia Trisci and companion of the late Lilo Marcus. Dear friend of Bernice & Arthur Weiss and Joan Linsky. Also survived by many nephews, cousins and dear 
 Dr. Vladimir Pasechnik, a senior Soviet biologist whose defection in 1989 alerted Western intelligence to the scope of Moscow's clandestine efforts to adapt germs and viruses for military use, died on Wednesday in Wiltshire, England. He was 64 and lived in a nearby village. The caus
 Gardner McKay, who became famous as the star of the 1960's television series ''Adventures in Paradise'' but abandoned the spotlight to move to the Amazon jungle, died at his home in Honolulu on Wednesday. He was 69 and had been fighting prostate cancer while trying to finish his memoirs.   
 DONNELLY-Joseph R., 63. Of Briarcliff Manor, New York died on November 22, 2001. Joseph was born in Brooklyn, NY on October 9, 1938 to Joseph Edward and Helen Bennet Donnelly. Joseph worked as a High School Special Education Teacher in the NYC Public Schools for 26 years. Joseph served in t
 JACOBS-Samuel. Age 95, of Palm Beach, Florida, passed away on November 22 in New York City. He is survived by his loving Millie, sisters Mary Bergofin and Kitty Chepovsky, seven grandchildren and their spouses, fourteen greatgrandchildren, his son-in-law Ernest Rubenstein and daughterin-law
 JEROME-Jerry. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed former member Jerry Jerome. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Peter J. Baum, President Dan Klonsky, Secretary       
 LEEDS-Charles Arthur Jr. On November 20, 2001. Beloved husband of Susan and father of Charlie III and Susannah. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday, November 25 at 10AM and stay for a memor
 McGLYNN-John Joseph, 87. Of Avon, CT. Husband of Eileen (Whalen) McGlynn died on Wednesday, November 21. He was the former VP of Marketing at IBM and was married to the late Marie O'Keefe McGlynn. Besides his wife, his survivors include his two sisters & 7 children. Funeral services will be
 SELLER-Shirley. On November 22, 2001. Beloved wife of Marvin. Devoted mother to Larry & Meri, grandmother to Hannah, Jacob, Sheryl and Stephanie. We will miss her sharp wit, generous spirit and unconditional love. Service Edwin L. Bennett, 824 Scarsdale Ave., Scarsdale, NY 1:30 PM. Intermen
 VECCHIONE-Edward, Jr. On Nov. 22, 2001 at age 76. Loving brother of Dorothy Martin and cousin of Vincent Lombardi, Marie Pelusso and Lucretia Trisci and companion of the late Lilo Marcus. Dear friend of Bernice & Arthur Weiss and Joan Linsky. Also survived by many nephews, cousins and dear 
 LAZARUS-Meyer ''Flip''. November 24th is the 100th anniversary of the birth of Meyer ''Flip'' Lazarus. His friends and family celebrate his warmth, his humor and his loyalty. We celebrate his life. He is missed and loved, always       
 Dr. Edwin H. Colbert, an authority on paleontology who helped popularize the study of dinosaurs through his work as a curator at the American Museum of Natural History in New York and as a prolific writer of dinosaur books for a lay audience, died on Nov. 15 at his home in Flagstaff, Ariz. 
 Irving Crane, whose gentlemanly, cautious approach to the game of pool resulted in the nickname the Deacon and seven world championships, at least one in each decade starting in the 1940's, died on Nov. 17 at a nursing home in Rochester. He was 88. His daughter, Sandra DeLucia, said
 ARKUSS-Claire. On November 23, 2001 at age 83. Beloved wife of the late Albert. Devoted mother of Neil and his wife Nancy, David and his wife Donna. Sister of Zephie Hermel and Alfred Pomerantz. Dear grandmother of Jeffrey, Brett and Emily. Funeral Services Monday, 11:30 AM, Schwartz BrosJe
 BARCH-Hans, M.D. Died on November 21, 2001. Survived by his sister Lisa, his son Greg, and his accomplishments.       
 BERENHOLTZ-Harry. On November 22. Beloved husband of Edna. Devoted father of Gary and Lorraine, and loving uncle. He had a zest for life for over 94 years. He will always be in our hearts. Services today 1 PM at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY.       
 de MONTMOLLIN-Laurent Guillaume. Beloved brother of Edmee de M. Firth, step-brother of Robin McKinney Martin, cherished uncle of Marie-Louise and John Slocum and Olivia Beckwith-Smith. Son of the late Marielle McKinney and Henry de Montmollin. Age 52. Died unexpectedly of a heart attack at 
 DONNER-Julius. Of Boca Raton, Florida. Passed away November 19, 2001. After 40 years in the life insurance and pension business, Mr. Donner retired to Boca Raton, where he developed a passion for wildlife photography. His photography is on permanent display at Florida Atlantic University an
 FINKELSTEIN-Hubert. Born in Pampa, Texas in 1931, Mr. Finkelstein died on Thursday, November 22, 2001 in Houston, Texas. He is survived by his children, David Finkelstein and Susan Finkelstein, his mother, Betty Finkelstein, his sisters, Gail Nusenow, Rona Streit, & Glenda Kaufman, & his be
 FORMAN-Sol. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Sol Forman who, with his family, expressed an admirable commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes. Sol's daughter, Amy Rubenstein, is a dedicated leader of UJA-Federation and i
 HAIN-Herbert, 92. On November 16, 2001. Survived by his wife Rosalind, sons Jack of Santa Cruz, CA, and Sandy of Palo Alto, CA; and grandchildren Jason, Sam and Emily. Contributions may be made to the Jewish National Fund for trees to be planted in Israel in his name.       
 HALBERG-Gyula Peter. Born 1915, Budapest, Hungary, died November 24, 2001, in his beloved NYC. Dr. Halberg, an early pioneer of color photography of the retina and optic nerve-head was a developer of glaucoma diagnostic instrumentation and organizer of medical contact lens fitting. He serve
 HOFFMAN-Michael E. On November 23, 2001. Extraordinary husband of Melissa Harris; loving father of Matthew Perkins (Ana) and Sarah Warren; dear brother of Jill H. Shore; sweet grandfather of Isabel K. Service private. A memorial service will be held in fall 2002. Contributions may be made i
 HOLST-Spencer. November 22, 2001, 75. Author, storyteller, painter. Recipient of the Rosenthal award of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, 1977. Created a genre of short story collected in The Language of Cats (1971), Spencer Holst Stories, a New York Times notable book
 HURNEY-Joseph J. Age 88, Nov. 12, 2001. A lifelong resident of Baldwin, NY, & recently Sayville, NY. Retired pressman of 49 years. Survived by five children, Eileen, Joe, Mary, Michael and Teresa. Father-in-law to Roy, Gerianne, John and Gabriel. Grandfather of ten and great-grandfather of 
 JACOBS-Samuel. Age 95, of Palm Beach, Florida, passed away on November 22 in New York City. He is survived by his loving Millie, sisters Mary Bergofin and Kitty Chepovsky, seven grandchildren and their spouses, fourteen greatgrandchildren, his son-in-law Ernest Rubenstein and daughterin-law
 JUSTER-Howard H., 76. Died of a heart attack Sunday, Nov. 18, 2001 in San Diego, CA. Formerly of Scarsdale, NY., beloved husband of Muriel (Uchitelle), father of Andrew (married to Janet Lob) & Kenneth, grandfather of Allison and Eric, and brother of Norton. Graduate of the University of Pe
 KELLY-Hugh J. Of Olive Bridge, New York, died Nov. 19, 2001. Husband of the late Catherine M. Rice Kelly, father of Sr. Agnes Kelly, OSU, of Kingston, NY, Hugh Jr. of Weston, MA, Edmund of Bedford, NY, Neill of Briarcliff, NY, Daniel of Ossining, NY and the late Christopher Kelly, deceased 
 LONG-Augustus C. The Board of Trustees, Faculty, and Staff of New York-Presbyterian Hospital are saddened by the death of Augustus C. Long, a former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Texaco, who was a Trustee of The Presbyterian Hospital in the City of New York beginning in 1955, Pres
 MIYOSHI-Aichi Augustus. 69, on November 17th. He will be greatly missed. He was an expert tennis player, gourmet cook, fine golfer and avid reader with an aesthetic, sensitive soul. He loved animals, especially his dog Alex. Aichi leaves his love Judith and her sister Gloria, as well as his
 RAKOWSKY-Ralph. November 22, 2001, age 92. Beloved husband of the late Irene. Loving father of Howard and his wife Sheila. Devoted grandfather of Debbi, Holly and Jeffrey Neitlich. Adoring great-grandfather of Ariel and Joshua. Caring brother of Sadie Vamos. The kindness and wisdom that he 
 RANDALL-David. The Board of Governors and Members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member David Randall. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife Ada, and to all of his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Paul Seidenberg P
 REIT-Seymour Victory. On November 21, 2001. Dearly beloved husband of Edmee (nee Busch), devoted brother to Phyllis and Irwin Nelson and Guy Busch, loving uncle to his many nieces, nephews and their children. Born on Armistice Day, 1918, he graduated from New York University and served with
 SIMMONS-Dr. Samuel Ira. Beloved husband of Dorothy for 58 years; adored father and father-inlaw of Susan Simmons & Jeffrey Rubenstein, Laurie Simmons and Carroll Dunham, Bonnie Simmons & Bart Wenrich. Loving grandfather to Jenna Rubenstein, Jesse and Julie Ross, Grace and Lena Dunham. We mo
 VALLAS-George. On November 23, 2001. Passed at 62 years. Beloved husband of Monica. Cherished father of Elizabeth and Gregory Kreder and Nicholas Vallas. Survived by two grandchildren, Eric and Lauren. Devoted brother of Venus Dimou, Bess and John Papandon. Uncle and dear friend to many. Gr
 VECCHIONE-Edward, Jr. On Nov. 22, 2001 at age 76. Loving brother of Dorothy Martin and cousin of Vincent Lombardi, Marie Pelusso, Lucretia Trisci and Michael Trisci. Companion of the late Lilo Marcus. Dear friend of Bernice & Arthur Weiss and Joan Linsky and Danny Vitanzo. Also survived by 
 WIGHT-Christian F. Retired vice president of IFF Inc. in NYC, died October 18, 2001 at the age of 89. He is survived by his wife Suzi, two sons, David and William, his daughters Anne Minotti and Constance Harada, six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.       
 ZEIGEN-Samuel L., LLB, CLU. Past President of the CLU, of New York City. Died peacefully on November 20th in his 99th year. Loving husband of Bess, father of H. Lylla Kleiman and L. Marshall Zeigen, and father-in-law of George Kleiman. A memorial service will be announced.       
 LAZARUS-Meyer ''Flip''. November 24th is the 100th anniversary of the birth of Meyer ''Flip'' Lazarus. His friends and family celebrate his warmth, his humor and his loyalty. We celebrate his life. He is missed and loved, always       
 Jean-Louis Palladin, a fearless and passionate cook who helped to free French cuisine in the United States from a hidebound orthodoxy while influencing a generation of chefs and food lovers, died yesterday in McLean, Va. He was 55. The cause of death was lung cancer, said Ann Brody,
 Milton Shaw, who oversaw the design and construction of the reactors that powered the first nuclear submarine and the first nuclear aircraft carrier, died on Saturday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his family said. A protg of Adm. Hyman 
 BARRETT-William L. On November 23, 2001, at age 66. Former Vice President of D.L. Elliman & Co. and later President of William L. Barrett, Real Estate Corp. Loving father of Jason, Eleanor, and grandfather of Elizabeth, Lauren and Danielle. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madiso
 BRENNER-Richard. On November 24. Devoted husband of the late Mary. Beloved father of Chris and Sara. Loving son of Sidney and Thelma. Dear brother of Ann Silverman. He will be missed by all who knew him. Services Tuesday, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 21 West Broad St., Mt. Vernon, NY.      
 CLEARY-Kevin F. Esq., 38 died tragically on September 11, 2001 as a result of the World Trade Center disaster. He was a Vice President at Euro Brokers Maxcor Inc. Kevin graduated from UW Madison and Fordham School of Law and studied acting with Lily Lodge at the Actor's Conservatory, Stella
 de MONTMOLLIN-Laurent Guillaume. Beloved brother of Edmee de M. Firth, step-brother of Robin McKinney Martin, cherished uncle of Marie-Louise and John Slocum and Olivia Beckwith-Smith. Son of the late Marielle McKinney and Henry de Montmollin. Age 52. Died unexpectedly of a heart attack at 
 DOLLIN-Dr. Joseph. On November 25, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Rose, sister Frances, son James, daughters Marcia and June, and their spouses, seven grandchildren and eight greatgrandchildren. Loving husband, father and caring physician. Services are today, 12:45 PM, at the Parks
 HOFFMAN-Michael E. On November 23, 2001. Extraordinary husband of Melissa Harris; loving father of Matthew Perkins (Ana) and Sarah Warren; dear brother of Jill H. Shore; sweet grandfather of Isabel K. Service private. A memorial service will be held in fall 2002. Contributions may be made i
 LoPRETE-Lawrence D. 74, of Boca Raton, FL, died Thursday, November 22, 2001. Mr. LoPrete moved to Boca Raton 13 years ago from Huntington, NY. He was preceded in death by his son Lawrence Jr. in 1985. Survived by wife Marilyn; sons Steven, Christopher and Joseph; sisters Albertina Daus, Mar
 REIT-Seymour Victory. On November 21, 2001. Dearly beloved husband of Edmee (nee Busch), devoted brother to Phyllis and Irwin Nelson and Guy Busch, loving uncle to his many nieces, nephews and their children. Born on Armistice Day, 1918, he graduated from New York University and served with
 ROSS-James O. On November 24, 2001, of Thornton, PA, formerly of North Bergen, NJ. Beloved husband of Cindy. Devoted father of Dana and Meredith. Son of Agnes and the late Honorable Wilbur L. Ross, and brother of Karen Ross Tanzola, and of Wilbur L. Ross Jr. After graduating from Phillips A
 TREUHAFT-Robert E. Died at his daughter's house in New York on November 11, 2001, after a brief illness. Bob lived in the Bay Area, California, since he married the late Jessica Mitford in 1943. He formed several radical law firms in San Francisco and Oakland, representing labor unions, vic
 WEINER-Irwin. Died on November 24, 2001, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Suzanne Weiner. Devoted father of Ellen Scappatura, Mark Weiner, Kim Perrault, Jeff Weiner, and Justine De Nunzio. Cherished grandfather and Poppy to Melissa and Joey Scappatura, Samantha and Marc Anthony Wein
 WEINTROB-Harry. 89, of Brooklyn and Belle Harbor, NY, on November 24, 2001 (9 Kislev, 5762). He is survived by his children Barry Weintrob, Erma Bressler and Edward Weintrob; grandchildren Gary, Lori, Karen, Cindy, Suzanne, Paul Samson, Rachel Leah and Sara Rivka; great-grandchildren Elizab
 TIETSORT-John R.F. There will be a memorial service in honor of John R.F. Tietsort at 12:30 P.M. on Thursday, November 29, 2001, at Baruch College, where he taught for many years. The service takes place in the Oak Room, 137 E. 22nd St. Donations to the John R.F. Tietsort Memorial Fund, whi
 Bo Belinsky, whose pitching prowess as a rookie with the Los Angeles Angels catapulted him to the life of a Hollywood playboy and the fleeting glitter of a 1960's celebrity, died Friday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 64. The cause was apparently a heart attack, The Associated Pres
 Norman Granz, the gruff impresario who in 1944 created Jazz at the Philharmonic, a touring group that took the jazz idiom out of the smoky, noisy bars and dance halls and tucked it into sumptuous concert halls where it flourished, died on Thursday in Geneva, where he had lived, mostly in re
 BARNETT-Charles J., Esquire. Of Syosset, N.Y. and Boynton Beach, Florida, on Nov. 25, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife Audrey (Applebaum). Adored father of Ruth Berland (Lawrence), Jeffrey (Stephanie), Suzanne Plotch (William), Steven (Jeanne). Devoted grandfather of Michael, Alyssa, Stua
 BARRETT-William L. On November 23, 2001, at age 66. Former Vice President of D.L. Elliman & Co. and later President of William L. Barrett, Real Estate Corp. Loving father of Jason, Eleanor, and grandfather of Elizabeth, Lauren and Danielle. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madiso
 BARUCH-Hans, M.D. Died on November 21, 2001. Survived by his sister Lisa, his son Greg, and his accomplishments.       
 CUSACK-John. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the family of John Cusack, a former Administrator of Personnel and Employee Relations. His concern for the morale of the System's employees was heartfelt and his knowledge of labor law outstanding. He was a deeply religious man who practiced 
 de MONTMOLLIN-Laurent Guillaume. Beloved brother of Edmee de M. Firth, step-brother of Robin McKinney Martin, cherished uncle of Marie-Louise and John Slocum and Olivia Beckwith-Smith. Son of the late Marielle McKinney and Henry de Montmollin. Age 52. Died unexpectedly of a heart attack at 
 GLIEDMAN-Marvin L., M.D. November 25, 2001. Distinguished surgeon and educator, beloved husband of Natalie, loving father of Chip and his wife Linda, Joanna and her husband Marc, devoted grandfather of Nathan. The Funeral Service will be held at Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, 1450 Broadway, He
 GLOVER-Price Perkins, 83. On November 23, 2001 of cancer. Beloved husband of Isobel, loving father of Jonathan and Julie, devoted brother of Dorothy Johns. A native Virginian and long-time resident of Manhattan, he was a pilot both in the Navy and for 35 years with Pan American Airways. A r
 HERMAN-David, 88. Nov. 25. Died peacefully at home after a courageous battle with Leukemia. Beloved husband of Florence for 56 years. Loving father of Paul & Lauren Herman, Randi & Michael Applebaum. Adoring Poppy to Rachel, Matthew, Brett & Breton. Devoted brother to Della Kraus, the late 
 HOFFMAN - Michael E. The Trustees and staff of Aperture Foundation mourn the passing of Michael Hoffman, Aperture's Publisher and Executive Director since 1965. A true visionary, Michael Hoffman made Aperture a leading force in the creation of a widespread audience for significant photograp
 KELLY-Hugh J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Hugh J. Kelly. A member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 PLOTKIN - Frederick Sheldon, Ph.D. Born May 25, 1937, grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan where he studied violin at the Henry Street Settlement House and once played at Carnegie Hall. Considered a child prodigy, he was offered a scholarship to Harvard which was not accepted because
 YEPEZ-Gumersindo. Ecuadorian scholar, 1912-2001. He was Secretary Emeritus of La Academia Norteamericana de La Lengua Espanola and one of its Founders. He is the author of ''Ensayos Filosoficos''. He will be missed so much by wife Consuelo, children and family.       
 Sol Forman, who sometimes ate a steak or two a day at Peter Luger, the steakhouse across the street from his Brooklyn metalware factory, and then rescued the restaurant from oblivion by buying it at auction and owning it for a half century, died on Thursday at Maimonides Hospital in Brookly
 BERKHEIMER-George A. Dr. Of Harrisburg, PA, New York City and Nantucket, MA, died on November 22, 2001, at his home in Manhattan of heart failure after a long illness. He was 89. The son of Dr. George C. and Bess Fisher Berkheimer, he was born in Windber, PA, graduated from Mercersberg Acad
 BREZINSKY-Philip, 86. On Monday, November 26, 2001 of natural causes. Husband of the late Sylvia, father of Kenneth and Helene (and Robert Wigness), grandfather of Stephan, brother of Beatrice and the late Dorothy and Morris, and long time friend of Beverly. Donations in his memory may be m
 DiVIRGILIO-Daniel F. Riverdale Country School extends its deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Daniel F. DiVirgilio, who suffered a fatal heart attack on Thursday, November 22, 2001. The Director of Lower School Admission for the past year and a half, Dan was a ''school man'' in 
 FORMAN-Sol. The Trustees and staff of the Museum of Jewish Heritage-A Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of Sol Forman, beloved father of Amy and father-in-law of our ViceChairman, Howard Rubenstein. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his children, grandchildren, great-g
 GLACKIN-Edward J., Jr. Of Huntington, NY, on November 27, 2001, died peacefully at age 72 surrounded by family. He will be lovingly remembered by his wife Bobby, his 10 children and their spouses, his 25 grandchildren, and many friends and family whose lives he filled with joy over the year
 GLASS-Walter, M.D. Devoted husband of Eva for 53 years. Loving father of Michael and Richard. Beloved grandfather of Lisa and David. A founding physician of the North Shore University Hospital and of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center. Served as president of the Medical Staff Society and
 GLOVER-Price Perkins, 83. On November 23, 2001 of cancer. Beloved husband of Isobel, loving father of Jonathan and Julie, devoted brother of Dorothy Johns. A native Virginian and long-time resident of Manhattan, he was a pilot both in the Navy and for 35 years with Pan American Airways. A r
 HALBERG-G. Peter, M.D. The Department of Ophthalmology of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York notes with sadness the death of its esteemed colleague on November 24, 2001. Dr. Halberg served as Attending Ophthalmic Surgeon and Chief of the Glaucoma and Contact Lens Service
 HANDELMAN-Ruth. On November 26, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Victor, loving mother of David and his wife Janet, and Howard, devoted grandmother of Joanna, Peter and Michael, great-grandmother of Siri and Emily. Services Thursday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.     
 HELLER-Bernard I. Died peacefully November 27, 2001. He is survived by his loving daughters Abbe Heller and Cynthia Flowers, sons-in-law Scott Kurnit and Robert Flowers, grandchildren Perry and Lindsey Flowers and loving companion Phyllis Weiss. His wit and wisdom will carry on within all t
 HOFFMAN-Michael. The International Center of Photography is saddened by the passing of Michael Hoffman, whose relentless creative energies for the Aperture Foundation and the world of photography have resulted in many of the finest photography books and exhibitions of our time. Michael's in
 JACOBS-Lenard S. Of Morristown, on Tuesday, November 20, 2001 formerly of Manhattan and Rye, New York. Father of Michelle. Grandfather of Jagger and Stryker. Brother of Barbara, Mildred and Edward. He was a pioneer in the entertainment licensing business at Warner Brothers and in his own bu
 LUSTGARTEN-Irving. The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale notes with regret the passing of Irving Lustgarten, beloved father of Scot and Brian and our dear friend, the late Marc Lustgarten. Irving was a proud and strong man who was devoted to his family and friends. We will miss his warm
 McANENY - Ernest. Riverdale Country School extends its deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Ernest McAneny, the son of the School's first Chairman of the Board, an alumnus (Class of 1925), a revered former faculty member, and, in recent years, the School archivist. Ernest taught 
 McCABE-Eugene J., 83. Of Rumson, N.J., died Sunday at home. Born on February 14, 1918, Mr. McCabe lived in NYC before moving to Rumson 43 years ago. He was predeceased by his parents, Eugene J. & Katherine McCabe, and his sister Catherine, all of NYC; a son Michael, of Rumson, killed in the
 MOORE-Francis Daniels, MD. Husband of Katharyn (Watson) (Saltonstall) Moore and his first wife who predeceased him, Laura (Bartlett) Moore, father of Nancy Moore Hill of Stratham, NH, Peter B. Moore of North Haven, CT, Sarah Moore Warren of Grafton, VT, Caroline Moore Tripp of NYC and Dr. F
 NERI-Joseph Michael. Age 69. Of Saint Cloud, FL. Died Saturday, November 10, 2001. Mr. Neri was retired from the New York City Sanitation Department. Born in Manhattan, N.Y., he moved to Saint Cloud in 1984 from Brooklyn. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus in New York and he was Cat
 SILVERMAN - Lawrence, M.D. Died on Sunday, November 25, 2001 at his home in South Orange, NJ. Graveside services were held on Monday at the Riverside Cemetery, Saddlebrook, NJ. Dr. Silverman graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Columbia University and New York University Medical School. He was a d
 SINGER-Milton died in his sleep November 26, 2001 just short of his 90th birthday. He was a high school educator and the owner and director of Camp Dunmore for Boys in Salisbury, Vermont, which he founded in 1946 with his partner and long time friend, Edward Jacobson. He played football for
 TYNION-James T. Jr. in his 79th year on November 27, 2001. Beloved husband of 47 years to E. Beverly (nee Ryan). Devoted father of James T. III, Eileen, Patrick A., Virginia Coughlan and Donald W. II. Loving grandfather of twelve. Also survived by his brother Donald W. and sister Louisemary
 VANDOW-Benjamin. Age 85, on November 24, 2001 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Blanche, cherished father of daughters, Marjorie Vandow and Ellen Klein, and step-sons, Alan Chodosh and the late Daniel Chodosh. Adored grandfather of Gabriel and Rebecca Fields, Michelle and Amy Chodos
 Paul Hume, whose opinions on music raised him to an almost statesmanlike stature in the minds and hearts of Washington's concertgoers, died on Monday at a nursing home in Baltimore. He was 85 and was suffering from pneumonia. Mr. Hume was The Washington Post's music critic for 35 ye
 Ralph Burns, an arranger and composer who rose to prominence in the big band era and later won awards for his work on Broadway and in Hollywood, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was pneumonia and complications from a stroke, his business manager said. F
 W. Glenn Campbell, an economist and friend of President Ronald Reagan who built the Hoover Institution at Stanford University into one of the world's most influential conservative research groups, died on Saturday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 77. The cause was a hea
 Dr. Francis D. Moore, a giant of 20th-century surgery who made profound contributions to the understanding of how bodily fluids and chemicals change during surgery, the development of organ transplantation and the care of critically ill surgical patients, died on Saturday at his home in Wes
 Joe Modise, a guerrilla fighter who led the armed struggle against apartheid and became South Africa's first black defense minister, died in his home near Pretoria on Monday night, government officials said Tuesday. He was 72 and had cancer, said Snuki Zikalala, a family spokesman. 
 Michael E. Hoffman, the longtime director of the Aperture Foundation, a nonprofit publisher of fine-art photography books and Aperture magazine, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 59 and lived in New York City and Shekomeko, N.Y. The cause was complications from meningitis, said hi
 BIALT-Bernard A. Age 61, of Westerville, OH, formerly of Woodbridge/Fords, N.J. on Tuesday, November 27, 2001 at his residence. Beloved husband for 21 years to Betty ''Julienne'' Bialt. Retired after 25 years as Treasurer for Cofinco Inc. of 99 Park Avenue, New York, NY. Since coming to Col
 COHEN-Bruce. On November 28, 2001. Beloved son of Leo and Joyce Cohen and the late Muriel. Dear brother of Joy Cohen and Bobby Owens. Devoted childhood friend of Steven Kleinman and his wife Arleen. Cherished by countless others. He left us too early, he will be deeply missed.       
 ELDER-O.R. (Doug). Died at home on Wednesday 28 November 2001 at the age of 87. Loving husband and father, he is survived by his wife Ann, sons Robert and Richard Elder, daughter Diane Schindler, and six grandsons. He is also survived by brothers, Burl and Proctor Elder, and his sister, Opa
 ENGELMAN - Howard. Adored husband of Ethel Roseman Engelman for 57 years, loving father of Augusta Kaiser and Arnold Engelman, brother of Isidore, grandfather of Allegra, Marnie and Francesca Kaiser, Nora and Audrey Engelman, father-in-law of William Kaiser and Carol Rosegg, brotherin-law o
 GLASER-Jacob. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our Board member Dr. Stephen Glaser upon the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President GLASER-Jacob. We mourn the passing
 GOTTESMAN-Harold Aaron, 75. Died peacefully at home in Old Lyme, Conn., on November 28. A longtime figure in the New York real estate community, Mr. Gottesman co-founded the Edison Parking Corporation, parent of ParkFast garages and lots, Manhattan Mini Storage and the Hippodrome office bui
 HELLER-Bernard I. Died peacefully November 27, 2001. He is survived by his loving daughters Abbe Heller and Cynthia Flowers, sons-in-law Scott Kurnit and Robert Flowers, grandchildren Perry and Lindsey Flowers and loving companion Philis Weiss. His wit and wisdom will carry on within all th
 McCABE-Eugene J., 83. Of Rumson, N.J., died Sunday at home. Born on February 14, 1918, Mr. McCabe lived in NYC before moving to Rumson 43 years ago. He was predeceased by his parents, Eugene J. & Katherine McCabe, and his sister Catherine, all of NYC; a son Michael, of Rumson, killed in the
 MOORE-Francis Daniels, MD. Husband of Katharyn (Watson) (Saltonstall) Moore and his first wife who predeceased him, Laura (Bartlett) Moore, father of Nancy Moore Hill of Stratham, NH, Peter B. Moore of North Haven, CT, Sarah Moore Warren of Grafton, VT, Caroline Moore Tripp of NYC and Dr. F
 NEWMAN-Henry. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a most cherished member of our extended family. Henry Newman was a survivor in every sense of the word. As one who lived through the horrors of the Holocaust he had a keen understanding of the importance of Jewish 
 TYNION-James T. Jr. in his 79th year on November 27, 2001. Beloved husband of 47 years to E. Beverly (nee Ryan). Devoted father of James T. III, Eileen, Patrick A., Virginia Coughlan and Donald W. II. Loving grandfather of twelve. Also survived by his brother Donald W. and sister Louisemary
 Irwin Weiner, a sports agent whose clients included Julius Erving and Walt Frazier, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 69. The cause was complications related to pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Weiner was a high school dropout who channeled his en
 Jamie Shannon, the chef who succeeded Emeril Lagasse at Commander's Palace in New Orleans and brought its kitchen national acclaim, died on Nov. 23 at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 40 and was being treated at the center. In his 17 years at Commander's Palace, t
 Dr. John M. Dawson, a leading authority on plasma physics, died on Nov. 17 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 71. The cause of death has not been determined, said Dr. Warren Mori, a professor of physics and electrical engineering at the University of California at Los Angeles, who w
 BELL-Stanley P., age 69. Awardwinning sailor died on Tuesday, November 27, 2001. 1953 graduate of Dartmouth College, former President of Executive Health Examiners. A sailor all his life, he was Chairman of the Winner Race Committee at the Larchmont Yacht Club where he was a life member. He
 BENNICK-Alfred H. on November 29, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Frances, devoted father of Elizabeth, Amy, and Chris. Cherished grandfather of Steven, Nicole, and Tyler. Loving brother-inlaw of Judy Morofsky and Joan Brown. His life touched so many and he will be missed deeply. Services
 ENGELMAN - Howard. Adored husband of Ethel Roseman Engelman for 57 years, loving father of Augusta Kaiser and Arnold Engelman, brother of Isidore, grandfather of Allegra, Marnie and Francesca Kaiser, Nora and Audrey Engelman, father-in-law of William Kaiser and Carol Rosegg, brotherin-law o
 LAWRENCE-Bruce. Passed on November 28 at age 66. His family mourns with profound sadness. Deeply beloved wife of 43 years, Linda. Most devoted son and daughter Rand and Tracy, adored father-in-law of Murray Brookman, cherished brother-in-law of Joan and David Gottlieb and soon to be exalted
 LEIGH-Monroe, 82. Died on November 27, 2001 at his law office, Steptoe and Johnson, LLP in Washington, DC. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Mary Gallaher Leigh, two sons, Edward M. Leigh and Parker Leigh and a daughter, Elizabeth Leigh all of Washington and three grandchildren. A mem
 SILVERSTEIN-Lawrence I. Of Clifton, NJ and Delray Beach, FL, passed away on Wednesday in Florida at age 76. Mr. Silverstein was born in the Bronx and lived in Spring Valley, Brooklyn and Passaic before moving to Clifton 30 years ago. Mr. Silverstein served in the U.S. Navy as a Signalman Th
 SULLIVAN-Robert J., 84. Of Princeton, NJ, and Vero Beach, FL, died on November 21, 2001, at the Medical Center at Princeton. He was a proud member of the Class of 1939 at Princeton University. He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Janet, and children Barbara Sullivan of Wilmington, NC, Ro
 TYNION-James T. Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of James T. Tynion, Jr. A life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian 
 WEINSTEIN - Edward G., 75, Thursday, November 29th. Beloved husband for 51 years of Barbara, devoted father of Kenneth (Elizabeth), Ellen Adnopoz (Stephen) and the late Peter. Cherished grandfather of Matthew, Timothy, Taylor, Kara, Dana and Hayley. Loving brother of Paul J. Weinstein and b
