 Harold Russell, a disabled veteran of World War II who won two Academy Awards for his performance in the 1946 movie ''The Best Years of Our Lives,'' died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Needham, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Russell, who lost both hands in a wartime accident, had never acted
 Night Train Lane, a fearsome tackler who was perhaps the finest cornerback in pro football history, died Tuesday in Austin, Tex., his hometown. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his son Richard Lane Jr. said. When he obtained a tryout with the 1952 Los Angeles Rams, t
 Francis S. Gabreski, the leading American air ace in Europe in World War II who later in life tangled less triumphantly with political perils as head of the Long Island Rail Road, died on Thursday at Huntington Hospital on Long Island. Mr. Gabreski, who lived in Dix Hills, N.Y., was 83.    
 Ira Waldbaum, who dropped out of college to help run his family's six small grocery stores in Brooklyn and ended up building what was at one time the nation's 12th largest supermarket chain, died Wednesday at a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 74. The family could not be reached 
 Sheldon Allman, a songwriter and actor who was the singing voice of Mr. Ed and composed the theme songs to ''George of the Jungle'' and other television shows, died on Jan. 22 at his home in Culver City, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, his family said. In ''Mr
 William Epton, a Maoist agitator who made a fiery street-corner speech during the Harlem riots of the summer of 1964 and as a result became the first person convicted of criminal anarchy since the Red Scare of 1919, died in a Manhattan hospital on Jan. 23. He was 70 and lived in Harlem.    
 Ernest Pintoff, a filmmaker who won an Academy Award in 1963 for ''The Critic,'' a short animated satire about modern art, died Jan. 12 at a hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Hollywood. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. ''The
 Harvey Matusow, a paid informer who named more than 200 people as Communists or Communist sympathizers in the early 1950's, only to recant and say he lied in almost every instance, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Claremont, N.H. He was 75. Nancy Graton, a friend, said the cause was c
 Laurence J. Kirwan, who was chairman of the New York State Democratic Party from 1984 to 1989 after being handpicked by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, died on Thursday at his home in Wellfleet, Mass. He was 61 and had lived in Rochester from 1965 until a few years ago. He had melanoma, said J
 Henry Kloss, an inventor of innovative audio and video components who became a hero to audiophiles, died on Thursday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 72. The cause was a subdural hematoma, said his son, David Kloss. Throughout his career, Mr. Kloss (pronounced close) was guided as
 Nala Najan, an American-born choreographer and performer who also wrote about the traditional dances of India, died on Jan. 7. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Katharine Cunningham, a friend. Mr. Najan, born Roberto Rivera, trained in viol
 Robert L. Chapman, an editor of Roget's Thesaurus who built a distinguished career on the difference between the right word and the almost right word and who streamlined the work for postmodern users, died Saturday in Morristown, N.J. He was 81 and lived in Madison, N.J. Dr. Chapman
 Claude Brown, whose 1965 book, ''Manchild in the Promised Land,'' chronicled his ascent from a harrowing childhood of violent crime and poverty in Harlem and became a classic of American literature, died on Feb. 2 in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was a lung condition, said Laura H
 Ed Jucker, who coached the University of Cincinnati basketball team to three consecutive N.C.A.A. tournament finals and won the first two, died Saturday at his home on Callawassie Island, S.C., near Hilton Head Island. He was 85 and had prostate cancer, his wife, Joanne, said.      
 Peter Gzowski, the rumpled host of a national radio program in Canada whose gentle, homey tones gave voice to a generation of Canadians searching for their national identity, died on Jan. 24 in Toronto. He was 67. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, a severe form of
 Dr. Robert Hanbury Brown, an engineer who drew on his pioneering work in radar to invent a way of measuring stars in distant galaxies, died Jan. 16 at a hospice in England. He was 85 and lived in Penton Mewsey, a small parish in Hampshire. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 A. H. Weiler, a writer, editor and critic whose career at The New York Times spanned more than 50 years, died on July 22 at his home in Astoria, Queens. He was 93. News of his death was delayed by the illness of his daughter and sole survivor, Susan L. Weiler. Mr. Weiler's wife, Ann
 Adalbert de Segonzac, a French journalist who was the Washington correspondent of the daily France-Soir from 1956 to 1976, died Dec. 27 at his home in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a Paris suburb. He was 89. Mr. de Segonzac, a past president of the Foreign Press Association, was born in Paris.
 Dr. John A. D. Cooper, a medical educator who helped shape national policy as the first full-time physician president of the American Association of Medical Colleges, died on Jan. 27 in Birmingham, Ala. He was 83 and lived in Birmingham. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's di
 Dr. Jonathan Evans Rhoads, a Philadelphia surgeon who made crucial breakthroughs in the development of intravenous feeding, died on Jan. 3. He was 94 and lived in Haverford, Pa. Through most of his career at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and the university's medical
 Dr. Max Perutz, whose success in elucidating the structure of the hemoglobin molecule helped give birth to the field of molecular biology and brought him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1962, died on Wednesday at a hospital near his home in Cambridge, England. He was 87. Dr. Perutz'
 Reggie Montgomery, an actor and director who was the first black clown to perform with the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, was found dead in his New York apartment on Jan. 13. He was 54. The cause will be determined by an autopsy, said Lori Tan Chinn, a friend. A polic
 Dr. John Slade, an expert in the treatment of alcohol, tobacco and drug addictions and an early and ardent supporter of government regulation of cigarettes, died on Jan. 29 at a family home on Lake Burton in Rabun County, Ga. He was 52. The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, 
 Neal W. O'Connor, a longtime advertising executive who in the 1960's and 1970's helped revive the agency now known as N. W. Ayer & Partners by, among other things, moving its  headquarters to New York from Philadelphia, died on Friday, Jan. 18 in Newtown, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Princeto
 Remo P. Palmier, a jazz guitarist who performed with Charlie Parker, Billie Holiday and Dizzy Gillespie but won his chief fame on ''The Arthur Godfrey Show,'' died last Saturday in the Bronx. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. He had been suffering from leukemia and lymphoma, said hi
 William T. Dillard, who founded the Dillard's department store chain, built it into the nation's third largest and then presided as his stores lost prestige and profits, died yesterday at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 87. Mr. Dillard was born Sept. 2, 1914, in Mineral Springs
 James Blackwood, the sharecroppers' son whose resonant voice took him from the country churches and revival tents of red-dirt Mississippi to the summits of gospel music, died on Feb. 3 in Memphis. He was 82. The cause was complications from a stroke, his son Billy said. Mr. 
 Lloyd Kiva New, an artist and designer who taught generations of American Indian artists at the Institute of American Indian Arts, an innovative school that he and a colleague founded in Santa Fe, N.M., died on Friday in a hospital in Santa Fe, where he lived. He was 86. Mr. New, a 
 Robert J. Lamphere, an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation who supervised the investigations of some of the biggest espionage cases of the cold war, including those of the Rosenbergs, Klaus Fuchs and Kim Philby, died on Jan. 7 in a Tucson hospital. He was 83. The cause of d
 Rudolph Davila, who was awarded the Medal of Honor 56 years after he saved the lives of 130 American soldiers by rushing a German machine gun outpost in Italy in World War II, died Jan. 26 at his home in Vista, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. On May 
 Dave Van Ronk, the gravel-voiced, ragtime-picking patriarch of the Greenwich Village folk scene, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was colon cancer, said his manager, Mitchell Greenhill. Mr. Van Ronk had three essential qualitie
 Msgr. Anthony Dalla Villa, the former rector of St. Patrick's Cathedral in Manhattan and for years one of the most visible priests in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, died on Sunday after collapsing while celebrating Mass at St. Agnes Church in Manhattan. He was 63. The c
 Dr. Robert W. Berliner, a former dean of the Yale School of Medicine and an authority on renal physiology whose work helped clarify some of the kidney's most important functions, died on Feb. 5 in New Haven. He was 86. In the late 1940's, Dr. Berliner and his team did research that 
 Frank Crosetti, the smooth-fielding shortstop and third-base coach who was a presence in Yankee pinstripes for 37 consecutive seasons, the longest stretch of anyone in franchise history, died Monday in Stockton, Calif. He was 91. He arrived at Yankee Stadium in 1932, a teammate of B
 Victor Posner, a corporate raider whose exploits over three decades earned him a place in the rogue's gallery of American business, died  on Monday at the Miami Heart Institute. He was 83 and lived in Miami Beach. The cause was pneumonia, according to Milton Farrell, his friend and 
 Jim Spencer, a power-hitting first baseman and outstanding fielder who played for the Yankees' 1978 World Series champions, died Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack, his mother, Helen Spencer, said. Spencer, who lived in Sykesville, Md., a
 Vernon A. Walters, a former ambassador to the United Nations and deputy director of Central Intelligence, died on Sunday at the Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was 85. General Walters was known for occupying a front-row seat for an array of historic eve
 Walter Fuld Gips Jr., a retired electronics industry executive and former treasurer of the American Jewish Committee, died Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 81. The cause was complications from colon cancer and diabetes, according to his family. Mr. Gips retired i
 Waylon Jennings, the leather-voiced singer and songwriter who was at the center of ''outlaw'' country music, died yesterday at his home in Chandler, Ariz. He was 64. He had suffered from diabetes-related health problems, The Associated Press reported. In a career that began 
 Vernon A. Walters, a former ambassador to the United Nations and deputy director of central intelligence, died Sunday in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was 85. General Walters occupied a front-row seat at an array of historic events in the post-World War II era, as a translator, advis
 Walter Bolden, a jazz drummer who came through the Hartford jazz scene, moved to New York in the early 1950's and played with many of the top names in the field, died on Feb. 7 at a Manhattan hospital. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said his niece, Carol Graham. Mr. Bolden
 William L. Dwyer, a federal district judge whose imprint on the Pacific Northwest stretched from 500-year-old forests saved from logging by his court rulings to the major league baseball team created as a result of his work as a trial lawyer, died on Tuesday at his home in Seattle. He was 7
 Bunny Allen, the last of a generation of professional hunters in East Africa who prided themselves on having as sharp an eye for their clients' wives as for their four-legged quarry, died at his home on the Indian Ocean island of Lamu last month, his family said. He was 95. 
 Dr. Arnold Zachary Pfeffer, a New York psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who worked to meld the insights of modern neuroscience with traditional psychoanalytic concepts and started a New York center devoted to that effort, died on Jan. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived on the Up
 R.M. Hare, a moral philosopher who wrestled ethical questions out of the murky realm of emotion and into the hard-edged arena of logic, died on Jan. 29 in his home in Ewelme, England. He was 82. Professor Hare had suffered a number of strokes in recent years, his son, John, said.   
 Richard Wesley Lawrence Jr., the founding chairman of the Adirondack Park Agency, died on Feb. 6 in Elizabethtown, N.Y., the Essex County village where he lived. He was 93. A retired New York lawyer and foundation executive and an Adirondacks resident since 1947, Mr. Lawrence was lo
 Wendell L. Marshall, who played bass with Duke Ellington from 1948 to 1955, died on Feb. 6 at his home in St. Louis. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Joan M. Marshall. Wendell Lewis Marshall was a cousin of the famed bassist Jimmie (sometimes Jimmy) Blanton
 Though it is little more than a collection of old, weathered buildings and a dance hall, this Hill Country village has for decades occupied a special place in Texas myth and music, and several hundred admirers gathered here today to remember the country singer who made Luckenbach famous, bu
 John E. Bebout, an expert on state constitutions, died on Feb. 1 in Hyannis, Mass. He was 98 and lived in Wellfleet, Mass. He was involved in the seven-year struggle that led in 1947 to a replacement for New Jersey's Constitution, which critics had called a horse-and-buggy document.
 John W. Gardner, an eloquent voice for citizen participation who founded the Common Cause lobby, championed campaign finance reform and introduced Medicare as secretary of health, education and welfare in the heyday of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society, died Saturday at his home o
 Kenneth Armitage, a sculptor who gained fame as part of a new generation of British artists in the 1950's and was best known for his quirky, semi-abstract, often lighthearted bronze figures, died on Jan. 22, the British press reported. He was 85. Mr. Armitage was born in Leeds on Ju
 Stewart Hitch, an abstract painter who exhibited his work in New York galleries and alternative spaces off and on for more than 30 years, died on Feb. 3 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 61. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Hitch was born in Lincoln, Neb.,
 Howard K. Smith, who was one of radio and television's most outspoken and familiar voices in a long and often contentious career as an anchorman, news analyst and war correspondent, died on Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87. Slim, silver-haired and handsome, speaking in 
 John Alun Stevenson, a retired publishing and direct-mail executive as well as a patron of the New York theater, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and had homes on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Cannes, France. A native of London, Mr. Stevenson attended the
 Matthew McTee Lyon, co-author of a history of the Internet, died on Saturday on a visit to Seattle. He was 45 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Lyon, an assistant vice chancellor of the University of California, died apparently of a heart attack, the university said. He and 
 Sir Walter Winterbottom, the first coach of the English national team and the man who presided over the two most shocking defeats in English soccer history, died on Saturday in Guildford, England. He was 89. Sir Walter, a native of Oldham, England, had a brief and undistinguished ca
 Dr. David Walter Barry, who studied infectious diseases and helped develop what was regarded as the first effective treatment for AIDS, died on Jan. 28 on a business trip to San Francisco. He was 58 and lived in Chapel Hill, N.C. The cause was a heart attack, said Triangle Pharmaceu
 Günter Wand, a German conductor who was known for his penetrating readings of the mainstream Romantic repertory -- particularly the symphonies of Bruckner, Schubert, Beethoven and Brahms -- died last  Thursday at his home in Ulmiz, Switzerland. He was 90. Mr. Wand seemed uninterest
 Peter Voulkos, an artist who elevated ceramics to new levels of abstraction and personal expression, as well as national prominence, died on Saturday in Bowling Green, Ohio. He was 78 and lived in Oakland, Calif. Ruth Braunstein, Mr. Voulkos's longtime dealer, said the cause was a h
 William Davis Taylor, the publisher of The Boston Globe for 22 years, until 1978, died on Tuesday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 93. Mr. Taylor followed his father and grandfather as publisher, the third of five members of a family dynasty that led The Globe from its foundin
 As the South Asia bureau chief of The Wall Street Journal, Daniel Pearl moved to Bombay after spending time in London and Paris. But for much of his career he was based on the East Coast, where he wrote articles on land use and transportation, and built a reputation on the witty strength of
 Edmar Mednis, a chess grandmaster who was the first player to beat Bobby Fischer in a United States Chess Championship tournament, died on Feb. 13 in Queens. He was 64 and lived in Queens. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his wife, Baiba. Despite having finishe
 Dr. Harold P. Furth, an architect and leader of American efforts to harness thermonuclear fusion for the generation of electricity, died yesterday in a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 72. The cause was a heart ailment, according to the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, where he 
 Jack Barnaby, who coached the Harvard squash and tennis teams to a host of championships in a career with the Crimson as a player, coach and adviser that spanned seven decades, died Feb. 12 in Lexington, Mass. He was 92. Serving as head coach from 1937 to 1976, except for a brief pe
 Heinrich Dietrich Schutz, an art dealer and fine art publisher, died on Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 79 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was vascular disease, said his wife, Suzanne. Mr. Schutz was born in Munich and came to New York as a 
 John Thaw, the British television actor known to millions as the crusty, music-loving Chief Inspector Morse of Oxford, died at his home in Wiltshire, England, on Thursday. He was 60. The cause was throat cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Thaw's death occurred almost
 Jonas Savimbi, who was killed yesterday by Angolan government soldiers, spent more than 35 years in the African bush battling first for Angolan independence and then for personal power. Mr. Savimbi, 67, was among the more charismatic rebels on the continent. The burly leader was eas
 Matthew J. Culligan, an executive who held high positions in the radio, television, advertising and publishing businesses, including a stint as president of the Curtis Publishing Company, owners of The Saturday Evening Post, died Jan. 31 in New hall, Calif., his companion, Judith Valentine,
 Willie Thrower, whose only National Football League game made him the league's first African-American quarterback, died Wednesday at 71. He had a heart attack in his home in New Kensington, Pa., his niece, Shirley Thrower, said. Thrower was also the first black quarterback in the Bi
 Alain Vanzo, a leading French lyric tenor of the postwar generation, died on Jan. 27. He was 73 and lived in Gournay-sur-Marne near Paris. The cause was complications following a stroke, his family said. With a light, agile voice and a sensitivity to the nuances of the Frenc
 Chuck Jones, the animator and director who brought to life Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Elmer Fudd, Road Runner, Wile E. Coyote and other beloved cartoon characters, transforming them into worldwide celebrities, died on Friday at his home in Corona del Mar, Calif. He was 89. The cause wa
 David J. Cogan, a theater owner, producer and manager who co-produced Lorraine Hansberry's drama ''A Raisin in the Sun'' on Broadway in 1959, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, said his stepdaughter Kim Snyder. Mr. Cogan was bor
 Sydney De Haan, a British hotel owner whose idea for attracting out-of-season guests led him to create one of the first tour companies catering to retirees, died on Feb. 16 in Folkestone, Kent. He was 83. His company, Saga Holidays, which has offered low-cost, all-inclusive packages
 Desmond Plunkett, a British flier in World War II who played a major role in the mass breakout from a German prisoner of war camp that was portrayed in the 1963 film ''The Great Escape,'' died on Feb. 14. Mr. Plunkett, who lived in Storrington, England, was 86. On June 20, 1942, Fli
 Samuel Terrien, a leading biblical scholar who was an authority on the Book of Job, died on Feb. 3 near his home in West Newton, Mass. He was 91. He became ill at the end of December, days after sending off the corrected galley proofs of his last book, ''The Strophic Structure of th
 Gordon Matthews, who in the 1970's invented voice mail, which is now used by about 80 percent of large American corporations, died on Saturday in a hospital in Dallas. He was 65 and lived in Austin, Tex. The cause was complications related to a stroke he suffered on Feb. 20 at a hot
 Jerrold J. Katz, a philosopher of language who helped establish the reputation of the graduate philosophy program of the City University of New York, died on Feb. 7 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was bladder cancer, the university announ
 Robert Strausz-Hupé, a former American ambassador to Turkey, NATO, Sweden, Belgium and Sri Lanka, founder of the University of Pennsylvania's Foreign Policy Research Institute and a conservative writer on foreign affairs, died Feb. 24 at his home in Newtown Square, Pa. He was 98. D
 Patterson Ewen, a Canadian artist who combined painting and sculpture to create cosmological images, died on Feb. 17 at his home in London, Ontario. He was 76. The cause was kidney failure, said Jack Shainman, the Manhattan dealer who presented Mr. Ewan's last New York show, in 2000
 Sheldon B. Satin, who helped make cable television popular by consulting in marketing and customer service, died Friday in Stamford, Conn. He was 69 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. The cause was a brain tumor, his wife, Joan Throckmorton, said. In the late 70's, when cable te
 Thomas P. Losee Jr., a longtime executive for several large national magazine publishing companies in New York, died on Feb. 2 at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. He was 62 and lived in Glen Cove, N.Y., and Gulfstream, Fla. The cause was kidney disease, his family said. M
 Ellis Jones, an outstanding guard and linebacker for the University of Tulsa during the World War II years and a National Football League player despite having lost an arm in a childhood accident, died Sunday at a hospital in Greeley, Colo. He was 80. He broke his neck in a fall at 
 Dr. Irving Kupfermann, a leading student of the way that animals' nervous systems control their feeding behavior and motivational states like hunger, died on Feb. 19 at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 64. The cause was a neurodegenerative disease, said Dr. John Koester, a c
 James R. Dolan Sr., a circulation manager for The New York Times in the 1970's, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Fort Pierce, Fla. He was 74. He had a history of heart trouble and died of natural causes, said his son Robert E. Dolan. James Dolan worked for the paper for
 Spike Milligan, progenitor of a lunatic brand of postwar British humor that blossomed as the 1950's radio hit ''The Goon Show'' and evolved into a blueprint for antic and inventive sketch comedy, died yesterday at his home in Sussex, England. He was 83. Mr. Milligan was the ringlead
