 Horace Hagedorn, who applied Madison Avenue wizardry to the new plant food his wife named Miracle-Gro and sold it to just about every one of the postwar suburbanites who yearned for a green thumb, died yesterday at his home in Sands Point, N.Y. He was 89. The cause was pulmonary fib
 BAUM--Richard T. Of Chappaqua, New York. On January 30, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Jean Knapp Baum, devoted father of Kathryn Russell and Judith Baum, loving and adored grandfather of Jean Russell, Katherine Baum & Christine Baum. A graduate of Columbia University and Columbia School
 FIXLER--Jon Scott formerly of Brooklyn, died January 30, 2005. He was 62. Husband of Patricia (nee Troxell). Father of Amy Fixler, Jeremy Fixler, Erin Fixler, Casey Fixler and Corey Fixler. Son of Irma and the late Emile. Brother of Lewis Fixler & Nancy Silver. Funeral services will be held
 FROSCH--Irving. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Irving Frosch. He was a was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to his wife and to his entire family.       
 GUTTERMAN--Stewart. The Board, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Stewart Gutterman, a member of our Board. He will long be remembered for his advocacy and commitment to our Center. We extend sincere condolences to the family. Lawrence Simon,
 HAGEDORN--Horace. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System is deeply saddened by the death of Horace Hagedorn, the former CEO of Miracle Gro Products. A long-time trustee of the North ShoreLIJ Health System, Horace was a wonderful human being and a generous contributor to coun
 HEISSENBUTTEL -- Robert H., M.D. The Department of Medicine of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons mourn the loss of Robert H. Heissenbuttel, M.D. He spent the entirety of his medical career at Columbia, receiving his M.D. in 1963 and continuing his training in medicine and
 LEVINE--Jules E., on January 30, 2005. Dearly loved and loving husband of Joan (nee Wertheim), children Robert & Lisa Levine, David & Keli Levine; grandchildren William, Jacob, Zachary, Amanda, Patrick; brother of Alice Rutenberg Kasarsky. His memory will always be a blessing. LEVIN
 MICHEL--John L., after a brief illness on January 31, 2005. Survived by his wife Barbara. Visitation Wednesday 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave (81 St). Burial private. Memorial to follow. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Save the Children.       
 NEWTON--Larry. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member Larry Newton. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held at Star of David Funeral Chapel, No. Lauderdale, FL, February 2 at 1:45PM. 95
 POPE--W. Stuart. Boosey & Hawkes, Inc. notes with sadness the passing of W. Stuart Pope, the company's president from 1964 until his retirement in 1984. From the time he joined Boosey & Hawkes in 1946, he worked tirelessly to promote the performance of contemporary music. Under his leadersh
 SCHWARTZREICH -- Sidney. Died on January 30, 2005 at the age of 90 in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Beloved husband of the late Lillian and survived by his wife Marion. Loving father of Russell and Steven and father-in-law of Stephanie and Elaine. Loving and devoted grandfather of Eric, Paul, Ken, J
 SHUKAT--Harry, on January 31st, 2005. Loving husband of Florence, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He truly enjoyed his almost 93 years of life. He will be missed by all.       
 TRAGER--William. The Rockefeller University community mourns with deep sadness the loss of our beloved colleague and friend, William Trager, a world renowned authority on parasitic diseases, insect physiology and tropical medicine who served the university with distinction for more than 70 
 Albert Schatz, a microbiologist who in the 1940's helped develop the powerful antibiotic streptomycin but later had to go to court to be recognized as a co-discoverer of the drug, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 84. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Vivi
 ADLER--Beniek. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Beniek Adler, beloved father of Sol Adler, a treasured leader whose visionary work as executive director of the 92nd Street YM-YWHA has reinvigorated and enriched the New York Jewis
 BAILEY--William O. In fond remembrance of the many years during which we knew him as a friend, client and loyal supporter. From his friends at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette       
 BAUM--Richard T. Of Chappaqua, New York. On January 30, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Jean Knapp Baum, devoted father of Kathryn Russell and Judith Baum, loving and adored grandfather of Jean Russell, Katherine Baum & Christine Baum. A graduate of Columbia University and Columbia School
 FIELD--John W., age 90, died on Sunday, January 30, 2005 in Redding, Connecticut. Mr. Field was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut on September 15, 1914. He graduated from the Hotchkiss School and Yale University where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. After graduation in 1937, Mr. Field join
 FRIEDMAN--Jacob. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jacob Friedman, who together with his beloved wife, Beulah, left an indelible mark on the New York Jewish community through their lifelong generosity and devotion. We extend our d
 HAGEDORN--Horace. The Partnership For After School Education (PASE)is deeply saddened by the death of our great friend, creative genius with Miracle-Gro, and giant in the field of philanthropy for youth, Horace Hagedorn. We are so grateful for his commitment and immense generosity to low in
 HEISSENBUTTEL--Robert H., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Department of Surgery at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, mentor and friend, Robert Heissenbuttel, M.D. For more than three decades, he dedicated his life to caring for 
 ITURREGUI--Jose. Died February 1, 2005 at Calvary Hospital after a brief illness at the age of 77. Resident of the City of New York for 60 years, born in Vizcaya, Spain. He will be greatly missed by his family and friends. He is survived by his wife of 41 years, Irma Balbi Iturregui, his si
 LEVINE--Jules E. A unique and special friend whose warmth and wisdom enhanced our lives. Our deepest sympathy to his loving family. Natalie and David Chotan       
 MICHEL--John L., after a brief illness on January 31, 2005. Survived by his wife Barbara. Visitation Wednesday 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave (81 St). Burial private. Memorial to follow. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Save the Children.       
 SAIDEMAN--Sanford, passed away on January 31, 2005 after a long illness. He was 74 years old. Sanford was a successful attorney and also an administrator of the S. Klein Estate. He is survived by his wife Rochelle, his children Mara, Lewis, Seth and his brother, Reuben. Funeral services wil
 SCHWARTZREICH -- Sidney. Died on January 30, 2005 at the age of 90 in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Beloved husband of the late Lillian and survived by his wife Marion. Loving father of Russell and Steven and father-in-law of Stephanie and Elaine. Loving and devoted grandfather of Eric, Paul, Ken, J
 Dr. William H. Crosby Jr., a pioneering hematologist who invented one of the first devices to obtain biopsies of the bowel, died on Jan. 15 in Joplin, Mo., after a long illness. He was 90. His death was reported by his son Jonathan. From 1951 to 1965, Dr. Crosby was chief of
 Dr. Brandt F. Steele, a psychiatrist and an author whose studies of children and their abusers in the 1960's became a rallying point for national child welfare advocates, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Denver. He was 97. Dr. Steele, who taught at the University of Colorado for four 
 BARNWELL -- William J., known to all as ''Jim,'' died on February 1 after a brief illness. He was 86 and had lived in Rye for the past 22 years. Jim retired in 1989 as a NY State Parole Board Commissioner. He graduated from Fordham University with a BA in 1940, later earning a Master's in S
 BLICKMAN--Bruce. Of Englewood, NJ died February 1, '05. Survived by his beloved wife Joan. Loving father of Andrea and Ellen and sons-inlaw John and Rich. Cherished grandfather of Sara and Matthew. Loving brother of Barbara Seskis. Retired VP of S. Blickman Inc. Inventor, gifted artist, a m
 CARLSON--Robert O., Ph.D. 83, died January 31 in Scottsdale, AZ. He directed opinion research for Standard Oil Company (NJ) and was president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research and of the Public Relations Society of America and dean of the school of business administrat
 CLAY--Henry Jones. Prominent New York City attorney, died January 26 in Greenwich, Ct, age 89. He was the son of George H. and Amelia Jones Clay. He attended the Taft School, Union College and the University of Virginia Law School. He served as a U.S. Naval Reserve Commander during World Wa
 HAGEDORN--Horace. Marketing genius, entrepreneur, executive, philanthropist, father, husband and family leader passed peacefully at home on January 31. He lived, laughed and loved for almost 90 years and will be joyfully remembered and deeply missed by his wife Amy, his six children, 22 gra
 HALPERIN--Theodore Philip, in Hanover, NH, from Lewy Body Dementia. Devoted father to Amy Halperin Wood (Denver) and Jonathan Joseph Halperin (Washington, DC). Adoring ''Wampa'' to four grandchildren, Joseph and Max in Denver and Aidan and Isabel in Washington; caring brother to Eliot Jules
 HEISSENBUTTEL--Robert H. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Robert H. Heissenbuttel, a cardiologist at NewYork - Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, where he spent his entire medical career. A superb and compassionate clinician,
 KAUFMAN--David, PhD. The Institutional Review Board of Maimonides Medical Center mourns the passing of David Kaufman, PhD. Our longtime Administrator, colleague and friend. His dedication to detail and commitment to scientific research will serve to guide us for many years. We extend our de
 KRANTZ--Irving, 81. Of Sunrise, FL. Passed away January 31, 2005. He is survived by his loving and devoted wife, Dorothy, his beloved children Richard (Gwendolyn) and daughter Ellen (Jeff), brothers Sol and Abe and his cherished grandson Joshua. Irving served his country in World War II, an
 LIPPIN--Warren G. Age 82. He left us to join his beloved wife Elaine on Sunday, January 30, 2005, while living in Coconut Creek, FLorida. Mr. Lippin was born in Brooklyn, NY and resided in Tarrytown, NY, Hemlock Farms, Pennsylvania, and Coconut Creek. Loving father to Doreen, Janet, and How
 PELLER--Paul. On February 1. Devoted husband of the late Zelda Peller. Loving father of Marshall and Alan. Cherished uncle to Barbara, Tom (Evelyn) and Bruce (Ruth). Dear brotherin-law to Muriel and Marvin. He will be dearly missed.       
 POTTER--Martin William, on February 2, 2005, of Harrington Park, NJ. Retired NYPD Det. 1st Grade. Former Asst. DA of Queens, NY. Retired Attorney for the Legal Aide Society in Queens County. First Union President of the Legal Aide Society of NYC. Member of the NY State Bar Association and N
 SCHWARTZREICH -- Sidney. Died on January 30, 2005 at the age of 90 in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Beloved husband of the late Lillian and survived by his wife Marion. Loving father of Russell and Steven and father-in-law of Stephanie and Elaine. Loving and devoted grandfather of Eric, Paul, Ken, J
 Dr. Edward D. Freis, an award-winning medical researcher whose early studies of high blood pressure in patients reversed the prevailing wisdom and helped definitively establish the health risks of hypertension, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Washington. He was 92. The cause was mu
 Eric Griffiths, a guitarist for the Quarrymen, the rock and skiffle band led by John Lennon that eventually evolved into the Beatles, died on Saturday at his home in Edinburgh. He was 64. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Rod Davis, who played banjo in the original group.       
 BERSON--Samuel. Short of immortality, no one could have done it better than my father. Dad, most people who met you instantly developed fond and lasting affection for you. Simply stated, you were clearly an honest man. Your kind heart and easy manner, your charming sense of humor, and your 
 CANICK--Moses Leon, M.D., age 82, died on February 2, 2005 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was a Professor Emeritus and former Chief of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at SUNY Health Science Center, Director of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Kings County Hospital and former Chief of Pl
 CHIGE--Gerald, 88, of Dunedin, FL, died on Thursday, February 3rd, 2005 at Edinborough Healthcare Center. He was born in New York City and came to Florida in 1989. He was a WWII disabled veteran. Survivors include his wife of 60 years Ethel, two daughters Susan Semitecolos and Bonnie Schwar
 COLLIER--Clayton Stafford, born 14 February 1923 in New York City, passed away 1 February. He grew up in Phillipse Manor, NY, son of Robert Leo Collier (nephew of PF), and Marshe Neil Bass, daughter of Ula LeHentz. He served in the Navy during World War II. Clayton held a BS from UVM and MB
 HAGEDORN--Horace. Marketing genius, entrepreneur, executive, philanthropist, father, husband and family leader passed peacefully at home on January 31. He lived, laughed and loved for almost 90 years and will be joyfully remembered and deeply missed by his wife Amy, his six children, 22 gra
 PLOTCH--Leonard F. Died February 2, 2005, in Boca Raton, FL, at age 77. Beloved husband of Rose, adored father of William and Joel, father-in-law of Suzanne and Mimi, and cherished grandfather to Cayla, Liana and Solomon; loved by his family and so many friends, he will be deeply missed. Se
 Dr. Ernst Mayr, the leading evolutionary biologist of the 20th century, died on Thursday in Bedford, Mass. He was 100. Dr. Mayr's death, in a retirement community where he had lived since 1997, was announced by his family and Harvard, whose faculty he joined in 1953. He was 
 Max Schmeling, the persistent and meticulous German boxer whose legendarily brief 1938 heavyweight title bout against Joe Louis was so fraught with political and racial overtones that it was called ''the undercard of World War II,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Hollenstedt, Germany, nea
 Ossie Davis, the imposing, deep-voiced actor who with his wife and acting partner, Ruby Dee, helped widen horizons for blacks on stage and screen while fighting zealously for civil rights from Washington to Hollywood, died yesterday in Miami. He was 87. His son, Guy, said Mr. Davis 
 BERSON--Dr. Samuel. It is with deep sorrow that I mourn the passing of my dear friend and fine neighbor, Dr. Samuel Berson. And to his wife Sis, I extend my deepest sympathy. Leon Jolson BERSON--Samuel, Dr. Rest in peace, Dear Friend. We will miss you so very much. You Touched Our l
 BLAUSTEIN--Elliott H., 89, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., and River Mill, Ma., on February 4, 2005. Survived by his beloved Rose and his loving children Carole Barr and Richard Blaustein, five grandchildren and six great grandchildren. Services are Sunday 1:00PM at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel,
 BRILLON--Henry, of Oceanside, NY, on February 3, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Rita. Loving father of Paula (Brian Quinn), Naomi (the late Martin Paige), and Barbara (Glenn Weiss). Dear brother of Hy Brillon. He will be greatly missed by his grandchildren Rebecca (Chris), Jacob, Casey, 
 CANICK--Moses Leon, M.D., age 82, died on February 2, 2005 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was a Professor Emeritus and former Chief of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at SUNY Health Science Center, Director of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Kings County Hospital and former Chief of Pl
 COOPER--Marvin Allen. A gift to our world. Treasured husband and soulmate of Joan (Harris). Adoring of and adored by and best friend of his children Debbie and Billy, and daughter-in-law Hilary. Devoted ''Paga'' of Madeleine and Annie Rose. 73. Died Feburary 4, 2005. A patient, wise and bri
 DAVIS--Ossie. The loss of Ossie Davis is a like a death in the family for us at 1199. Ossie was a man of genius and principle who always did the right thing. He was a beloved friend and trusted advisor to several generations of 1199ers. His association with our union began 50 years ago when
 GORMAN--William D. Died at age 79, January 25, 2005, Bayonne, NJ. Painter, printmaker. Member National Academy of Design, past president American Watercolor Society, Allied Artists of America, NJ Water Color Society, Honorary Member Audubon Artists. Survived by Jan Gary, his wife of 48 year
 LOSEY--Robert Lee, 59, of Manhattan passed away February 2, 2005 after a lengthy battle with Alzheimer's. After graduating from Princeton University (1967) and the University of Virginia Law School (1970), he began his professional career at Saterlee, Stephens, Burke & Burke. He then moved 
 McDERMOTT--James Oliver, 82, on February 3, 2005 in Livingston, NJ. Born in Summit, NJ in 1922, he served as an officer in the U.S. Merchant Marine during WW II. He spent his business career with the overseas division of General Motors Corp. in South America, the Near East, Africa and New Y
 OWEN--Robert G. Organist and Choirmaster Emeritus of Christ Church, Bronxville, N.Y. Died on Wednesday, February 2, in Bronxville. A recognized national and international organist, esteemed by his professional colleagues and loved by his parish, he provided unparalleled leadership in establ
 ROSENBERG--Milton M. Retired criminal attorney from New York and Miami, died Thursday, February 3. He is survived by his wife Ruth, sons Ira and Marc and daughter-in-law Meriki.       
 E. Allan Farnsworth, a legal scholar whose writings on contract disputes have become a standard reference in courtrooms and law schools, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 76. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Patricia. A professor at Columbia 
 BERSON--Samuel. Short of immortality, no one could have done it better than my father. Dad, most people who met you instantly developed fond and lasting affection for you. Simply stated, you were clearly an honest man. Your kind heart and easy manner, your charming sense of humor, and your 
 CANICK--Moses Leon, M.D., age 82, died on February 2, 2005 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was a Professor Emeritus and former Chief of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at SUNY Health Science Center, Director of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Kings County Hospital and former Chief of Pl
 COOPER--Marvin Allen. A gift to our world. Treasured husband and soulmate of Joan (Harris). Adoring of and adored by and best friend of his children Debbie and Billy, and daughter-in-law Hilary. Devoted ''Paga'' of Madeleine and Annie Rose. 73. Died Feburary 4, 2005. A patient, wise and bri
 DAVIS--Ossie. The Hunter College community notes with sorrow the passing of our dear friend and distinquished husband of Hunter alumna, Ruby Dee. His theatrical talents, his commitment to the civil rights movement and his love of family are hallmarks of his illustrious life. We extend our d
 DUBROWIN--Raphael, 91, on January 30, 2005. Formerly of Hartsdale, NY, Ray and his beloved Bernice moved to San Diego, CA in 1988. He graduated from NYU and NYU Law School, served in the U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps (receiving Legion of Merit Citation), and had retired after 40 years in th
 FAYERWEATHER--John, 82, formerly of Hartford, VT, and Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, February 3, after a long battle with Alzheimer's disease. Husband of the late Ruth (Selina) Fayerweather, survived by his sons and their families, Charles and Carol and their daughter, Lily, of Sharon, MA, and Jam
 GLUSMAN--Murray, 90, on January 26, 2005, in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Dr. Glusman was a graduate of the College of Medicine at New York University - Bellevue Medical Center, and a naval reservist who was called up for active duty in July 1941. Captured in the Philippines in May 1942, he was 
 HALPERIN--Theodore P. The Grace R. & Alan D. Marcus Foundation mourns the passing of a founding trustee. Ted was the consummate professional in every respect. He epitomized the highest principles of integrity, ethical and moral standards. We will greatly miss his wise counsel, warm friendsh
 HAVERSTICK--John Mitchell, 85, of Summit, NJ, formerly of NYC, died on Saturday, January 29, 2005 at Overlook Hospital in Summit. Mr. Haverstick was born in Carlisle, PA and lived most of his life in NYC. He moved to Summit in 2002. A graduate of Amherst College, Mr. Haverstick retired as t
 KAMINSKY--Louis (Label). Died December 20, 2004. A friend indeed. Character, integrity; loved and respected by all. We were as close as brothers. We will miss him. We send our condolences to the entire family. Arthur and Norman Robbins       
 LAVERY--Dr. Gerard B. On January 21, 2005. Professor of Classics for 35 years at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA. Gerry was a graduate of Regis High School in New York and received his Master's and Ph.D from Fordham University. Beloved brother of Mary Lavery and the late Alic
 LAZARUS--Henry. Died suddenly of a heart attack in his Las Vegas home. Even though Henry died at the early age of 62, he led a very full and exciting life. He is survived by Judi Lazarus, daughter Jennifer, son Jason and daughter-in-law Heather, sister Barbara Siskin and brother David Lazar
 LODGE--J. Gregory. 65, of Old Post Road, Ghent, N.Y. (formerly of NYC). Died Saturday, January 22, 2005 at St. Peter's Hospital, Albany, N.Y. Born in Albany, January 9, 1940, he was the son of the late Barrington and Mary (O'Brien) Lodge. He is survived by one sister, Mary Judith Lodge of L
 O'CONNELL--Donald L. Of Rye, NY, passed away suddenly on February 2, 2005. Beloved husband of Virginia (Hanley). Dearest father of Donald and his wife Maureen Dowling, Robert and his wife Claudia Santamaria, Kerry and her husband Michael Tepedino. Much loved grandfather to Tyler, Courtney, 
 PRENNER--Edward J., M.D. Died January 30, 2005 after a long battle with cancer. Services were held for the family on February 1st in Forest Hills where he practiced as an Ophthalmologist for many years. He will be sorely missed by his family and his friends. He was a devoted father to his d
 SANDEROFF--Sam Simon. Died on February 5, 2005. He is survived by his wife Judy, stepson Stanley, grandson Che, granddaughter Cory, and sister Pauline.       
 SCHANZER--Alexander. Died at home in the arms of his family on January 17, 2005. Beloved English teacher for 30 years, lover of games, travel, and the sea, a true adventurer. Al's spirit and rolling laugh will be dearly missed.       
 SHAW--Leon. Died on January 27th, 2005 in Delray Beach, Florida at the age of 77. He is survived by his wife Beatrice Albrecht-Shaw and his two daughters Dodie Dorf and Debbie Kase, by his deceased wife Mickey Ehrlich Shaw. He is also survived by his sons-in-law Douglas Kase and Barry Dorf,
 SMITH--Richard E. A wellknown figure in the consumer goods world and heralded as an innovator who was formative in shaping the ice cream and frozen dessert industry, passed away on Saturday, January 29, at the age of 62. Descended from three generations of New York City purveyors of ice cre
 WEISS--Walter. Died Thursday, February 3, 2005. Survived by wife Stephanie, and children James and Vered Lewy, Amy and Dan Reisen, and Ellen and Scott Bull, and seven grandchildren. Graduated from Cornell Law School in 1949 after serving as a navigator in the Air Force during World War II. 
 WEISSMANN--Marc D., 52. He taught his family what it meant to love and to care. Singularly, a good man.       
 WINTERS--Ben. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Ben Winters of Beverly Hills, CA. A driving, inspirational force in the ATS, he served as chairman and president of the Western Region and Southern California Chapter, and on the National Bo
 J. Richard Butler, a former executive director of Church World Service, an international relief and development agency, died on Jan. 25 at his home in New York City. He was 74. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, according to the agency, which announced the death.       
 John L. Tatta, a pioneer in the cable television industry, who worked with Charles Dolan to build Cablevision into one of the nation's leading providers, died on Thursday on Long Island. He was 84. The cause was complications from cancer, Cablevision said. Mr. Tatta started 
 CANICK--Moses Leon, M.D., age 82, died on February 2, 2005 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was a Professor Emeritus and former Chief of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at SUNY Health Science Center, Director of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Kings County Hospital and former Chief of Pl
 DAVIS--Ossie. Ossie Davis, esteemed actor, activist, and humanitarian. He never feared to use his stagecraft and his prominence to fight for right, to change the world. We were privileged to know him as a member of our Advisory Board. We extend our condolences to his beloved wife and partne
 DeLUCA--Edward Ernest Sr. Age 70, of Milford, CT. Formerly of Avon, CT. Died peacfully, after a short illness, in his home on Friday, February 4, 2005. He was born on February 23, 1934, in New York City, to the late Vincent and Mary Garguilo DeLuca Sr. He served as a Lieutenant in the US Na
 FLYNN--Thomas C. Age 87, of Beechhurst, NY, on February 5, 2005. Loving father of Ann Marie, Thomas, Regina and Maryellen Flynn-Coffey. Devoted father-in-law of Susan Flynn and Joseph Coffey. Beloved grandfather of Marielle Foy, Caitlin Ashlie and Jillian Marie Coffey and Madeline Elizabeth
 LEMANSKY--Julius. 94, of Deerfield Beach, FL. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Died peacefully following a brief illness on February 5. He was preceded in death by his beloved wife Hannah. He is survived by daughter Susan (Joel) Agee; son Edward (Ruth) and granddaughters Gina Agee and Wendy Lemans
 O'CONNELL--Donald L. Of Rye, NY, passed away suddenly on February 2, 2005. Beloved husband of Virginia (Hanley). Dearest father of Donald and his wife Maureen Dowling, Robert and his wife Claudia Santamaria, Kerry and her husband Michael Tepedino. Much loved grandfather to Tyler, Courtney, 
 POOR--Charles Lane III. Resident of Washington, DC, and Nonquitt, MA, died Thursday morning, February 3, 2005, at Georgetown University Hospital after a prolonged illness, at the age of 85. Mr. Poor was a graduate of Harvard College, Class of 1941, and an aeronautical engineer. He served in
 SANDEROFF--Sam Simon. Died on February 5, 2005. He is survived by his wife Judy, stepson Stanley, grandson Che, granddaughter Cory, and sister Pauline.       
 SCHMIED--Ernest. 80, of Woodside, NY, died January 25, of heart failure in Puerto Rico. His loving wife Marian and son Robert will miss him deeply. He was born in Vienna, Austria. As an electrical and consulting engineer, he designed and directed the power installations of many notable stru
 SHERMAN--Michael A. Died on February 5, 2005. Beloved and devoted husband for 61 years to Shirley (nee Kirschenbaum). Deeply cherished and loved father of Lynne and Susan. Adored grandfather of Joshua and Lauren. Survived by his brother George and his close cousin Bob Napack. Predeceased by
 URBONT--Dr. Carl. Of Sarasota, FL, and Larchmont, NY. Beloved husband of Genia for 57 years, loving father of Al and Aviva. Adored grandfather of Naomi, Julian and David. Died peacefully in his sleep after a long illness at Sarasota Memorial Hospital, February 5, 2005, at 91. In World War I
 WERTIMER -- Sidney. 84, professor of economics for 52 years at Hamilton College, died on February 1, in Charleston, SC, while visiting members of his family. In addition to teaching finance, money and banking, and accounting to Hamilton undergraduates as the McEwen Professor of Economics, D
 Paul Good, a television and print journalist known for his coverage of the civil rights movement, died on Jan. 23 in Greenwich, Conn. He was 75 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was a stroke, said his daughter, Regan. Mr. Good was best known for his reporting from the S
 Dr. Peter E. Stokes, a Cornell endocrinologist and psychiatrist and a pioneer in the use of lithium to treat manic depression, died on Jan. 22 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 78. He had been hospitalized since November, and a cause of death was not deter
 Robert Stevens Baker, a nationally renowned church organist and choirmaster and the founding director of the Yale Institute of Sacred Music, died on Jan. 24 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 88. His death was announced by the institute, which he led at its beginnings in 1973 and d
 Karl Haas, the popular classical music commentator whose program ''Adventures in Good Music'' was once the most listened to classical music radio show in the world, died on Sunday at a hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. He was 91. Bridgett Emerson, a syndication associate of WCLV-FM in Cl
 CHARKIN--Norton, age 93, died peacefully on February 6, 2005. Beloved husband for 70 years of Selma. Adored father of Eileen Weiler Judell (Robert) and the late Joy Ganney. Cherished grandfather of Pamela Weiler Grayson (Douglas), Andrew Weiler (Cecilia), and Ryan Ganney. Devoted greatgrand
 DAVIS--Ossie. Bread and Roses will miss its board chair, best friend and long time visionary, a hero who gave us his baronial wit, deep intellegence and lifetime commitment to working people, always alongside his beautiful companion Ruby Dee. Ossie's presence will always be with us. We send
 FLYNN--Thomas C. Age 87, of Beechhurst, NY, on February 5, 2005. Loving father of Ann Marie, Thomas, Regina and Maryellen Flynn-Coffey. Devoted father-in-law of Susan Flynn and Joseph Coffey. Beloved grandfather of Marielle Foy, Caitlin Ashlie and Jillian Marie Coffey and Madeline Elizabeth
 LAERI--John H. Jr., son of the late J. Howard and Betty C. Laeri of Greenwich, CT, died February 2, 2005 at his home in Fairfield, CT surrounded by his family. Mr. Laeri was born on December 21, 1935, Laeri was a graduate of Deerfield Academy and Williams College with honors in 1958. Follow
 MAURER--Jack. Of Manhattan and Quiogue, died peacefully at home on Sunday. Husband of Rona, cherished father of Lisa, Justine and Nicole. Loving brother of Ed, Rose and Shirley. Beloved grandfather of Allegra and Lucas. Cared for devotedly by Mona Tay. He was President and Publisher of Indi
 MELLECKER--John B., 93, on February 5, 2005. Born in Anamosa, Iowa. Attended Iowa State, served in U.S. Army, 1942-1946. Chemical engineer, and editor. Past historian of Chemists Club. Survived by his wife, Dorcas Fick-Mellecker, son, John B. Mellecker, Jr., of Holden, MA, daughter, Judith 
 POMERANTZ--Ralph. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President       
 URBONT--Dr. Carl. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Dr. Carl Urbont, our former Executive Director and Executive Vice President. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife of 57 years, Genia, his children, Al and Aviva, and grandchildren, Naomi, Julian and Dav
 Derick J. Daniels, a former newspaper executive who helped steer Hugh Hefner's Playboy empire through rough patches in the 1970's, died last Saturday at his home in Miami. He was 76 and also had a home on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, his family said.       
 George Herman, a CBS correspondent for 43 years and the moderator of the network's ''Face the Nation'' program for nearly 15 years, died yesterday in Washington. He was 85. His wife, Patricia, said he died after suffering in recent years from cancer, heart trouble and other ailments
 Lazar Berman, a Russian pianist with a huge, thunderous technique that made him a thrilling interpreter of Liszt and Rachmaninoff and a representative of the grand school of Russian Romantic pianism, died on Sunday at his home in Florence, Italy. He was 74. The cause was a heart att
 BOXER--Robert, M.D. The Department of Pediatrics of the Schneider Children's Hospital mourns the loss of our beloved friend and colleague, Robert Boxer, MD. Dr. Boxer was a gifted pediatric cardiologist and intensivist who was totally committed to providing exceptional and compassionate car
 COHEN--Edwin. Died on February 8, 2005, age 76. Survived by his wife and best friend of 53 years, Marilyn, his children Jeffrey, Debra (Tom Markovits), and Jonathan, and grandchildren Allison, Lindsay, Alex, Joshua, Eric and Zoe. Funeral at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Mount Vernon, NY, Febru
 DAVIS--Ossie. We are deeply saddened by the loss of this outstanding artist and human rights activist. He was always there to help others, including the Working Theater, achieve their goals. He will be missed. As a member of our Board of Advisors, we will live by his words, ''don't mourn; o
 GEYER--Harold Carl, Jr. Of Chilmark, MA, died February 3, 2005 on Martha's Vineyard at age 99. A Phi Beta Kappa, he graduated from Yale University in 1926 and went on to earn an MFA in its School of Architecture in 1930. Raconteur extraordinaire, poet, lecturer, painter, writer, photographe
 KATZ--Rabbi Dr. Michael. The administration, faculty, students, and alumni of Yeshiva University and its affiliate, Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, record with grief the passing of one of its longest serving and most beloved professors of Talmud and Bible, who was a Rosh Yeshiva 
 KRUPIN--Charles, February 5, 2005, in Boca Raton, FL. Retired NY lawyer in private practice. Survived by his wife Esther, daughter Noelle Walters and son Eric Krupin.       
 MEER--George. On February 5, 2005, George Meer passed away. Beloved husband of Gladys D. Meer, father of Cary Meer (Charles Thomas) and Claudia Meer Linehan (Robert), grandfather of Daniel, Thomas, Matthew and Alexandra Linehan. Memorial contributions may be made to American Heart Associati
 NUSSBAUM -- Stanley, best friend, soul mate, beloved husband of Natalie (nee Lewis of Montreal). Cherished father of Trena and Leonard Rauner and Ilisa and Jason Nussbaum. Adored Zaide of Andrew, Elizabeth and Charlotte Rauner, Derek and Travis Nussbaum. Ultimate educator, devoted to the ar
 ROTHWELL--Peter Falcon. Age 51, of Bloomfield, NJ and East Hampton, NY, died on February 7, 2005 after a brief battle against lymphoma. Beloved brother to Susan Rothwell, Anne Forlines, and James Rothwell, brother-inlaw to Susan Poliak Rothwell and John Forlines, III, and cherished uncle to
 SALKOV--Hazzan Abraham The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of our revered colleague of over five decades, a wonderful Hazzan, brilliant composer who quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of the Jewish community of Baltimore, MD for over 30 years with dignity, warmth
 SCHENKEL--Arthur. The entire Continuum Health Partners family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Arthur Schenkel, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Louis Schenkel, Esq., Assistant General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer. To Lou, his mother Minna, the entire Schenke
 SHUCHAT--Morris (Red), 90, of Deerfield Beach, FL., formerly of Bayside, N.Y., peacefully on February 4, 2005. Survived by his wife of 65 years, Molly, sons Alan and Jeffrey, daughters Alix and Jacqueline, grandchildren Mark, Jacqueline, Vera, Allison and Jake, and great grandson Harry. He 
 Steve Burgh, a record producer and session musician who played with Billy Joel, Phoebe Snow, Steve Forbert, David Bromberg and others, died on Monday at his home in Kingston, N.Y. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack, said his lawyer, Leslie Berman. Mr. Burgh was a versat
 George A. Dudley, an architect who coordinated large civic projects at home and abroad, including the construction of several campuses for the State University of New York, died on Sunday at his home in Rensselaerville, N.Y. He was 90. The cause was pneumonia, his family said.      
 Jimmy Smith, who made the Hammond organ one of the most popular sounds in jazz beginning in the mid-1950's, died on Tuesday at his home in Phoenix. He was 76. He died of unspecified natural causes, said his stepson and former manager, Michael Ward, who also said that his age of 76 w
 BOXER--Robert, M.D. The Physicians and Staff of the Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University Medical Center and the Babies Hospital Alumni Association wish to express our heartfelt sorrow and condolences to the family of Robert Boxer, M.D. Bob completed his residency 1972-1975, a fello
 CASTELLI -- Victor. Peter Martins and the dancers, ballet masters, musicians, staff and Board of Directors of New York City Ballet deeply mourn the passing of former dancer and ballet master Victor Castelli, a much-beloved member of our family. As a soloist with the Company, Victor worked c
 COMINS--Frederic Marshall, of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., died peacefully, at home, February 8th, after a long battle with Prostate Cancer. Born in New York City, October 8, 1916, Fred graduated from Fieldston School in 1933 and graduated Magna Cum Laude, in Economic Theory, from Harvard Colleg
 CRABTREE--Robert Edward, Sr. Of Greenwich, CT and Vero Beach, FL died of heart failure at his home on Wednesday, February 9, 2005. He was an active automobile executive for Crabtree Automotive Group. Mr. Crabtree was born in New York on October 11, 1926. He was a graduate of the United Stat
 HABERLAND--Wayne K. of Levittown, (former longtime resident of Kings Park, NY), died suddenly on February 8, 2005. Survived by his broken hearted wife, Terese, beloved brother, Kurt Jr. and his wife, Nancy. Also survived by his mother, Marilyn, eleven loving nieces and nephews, mother-in-la
 HARLLEE--John, Rear Admiral. On Saturday, February 5, 2005 at his residence in Bethesda, MD. Beloved husband of the late Jo-Beth Carden and the late Helen Tewksbury King. He is survived by one son, John Harllee, Jr.; two grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Family will receive friend
 HOFFLIN--Harold M., 83, formerly of Fort Lee, NJ and recently of Boca Raton, FL, died on February 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Sheila. Father of Jesse, Lois, Scott and Glenn. Adored grandfather of Lauren, Danielle, Marissa, Jason and Aaron. Father-in-law of Phyllis, Lori and Michelle. All we
 KANENSON--William L., M.D. Of Harrisburg, PA. died on Sunday, February 6 at his home. Beloved husband of Marilynn (Roth), dearest father of Marcy, Ross and his wife Marion. A graduate of Mercersburg Academy, Lehigh University, Jefferson Medical College, he interned and did his residency at 
 KOWALSKY--Arnold A. on February 8, 2005. Arnold was a musician, teacher, and antiquarian publisher, author, and a true Renaissance man. He is the beloved husband of Dorothy, loving father of Francine, devoted son of Clara, fond brother of Leonard and Seymour. Donations to The Shaare Tikvah.
 LEVINE--Ira. Beloved husband of Barbara (Steinbrink). Loving father of Judy and Alan Garet and Ron and Scheryl Levine. Adoring grandfather of Jackie, Lindsay and Connor Garet; Joseph and Matthew Levine, and brother of Edward Levine. His determination and positive attitude have been an inspi
 LURIA--Dick, age 66. Loving husband of Suzi, beloved father of Amy, Rob, Jake and Susie. Doting grandfather of Shelby, Clay and Hallie. Devoted son of Gladys Luria. Brother of Joan Fisher. Renowned photographer, great friend, hell of a good guy. Funeral Service Friday 11AM at Zion Memorial 
 MEISELAS -- Leonard E., M.D., age 86, on February 4, 2005, after a long struggle with Lewy Body disease. A graduate of Rutgers University (1939), New York University College of Medicine (1943) and the University of Virginia (1948), he had a distinguished career devoted to medical education.
 MILLER--Harold. Beloved by his wife Lillian, his son Brian, his daughter-in-law Deirdre, his grandchildren Gabrielle, Kayla, Shaanan and Carmela. Longtime resident of Jackson Heights. Graduate of the University of Michigan with degrees in Chemical and Mathematical Engineering. Served in W.W
 MILLS--Bernard. Age 92, died peacefully on February 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Gertrude for 61 years. Cherished uncle of Joan Derwin, Gail (Alan) Paley, Lynn (Martin) Halbfinger, June (Jerry) Gottlieb, Becky (JR) Wilde, Neil (Cathy) Kodish, Lisa (Bob) Case. Adored greatuncle of Sydney, All
 RAINOFF--George R., age 75, of Southern Pines, NC and Douglaston, NY died on February 7, 2005 at his home. Survived by his wife, Betsy, his sons, Brad, Jeff and Greg, Stepsons, John, Robert and Henry Ferris, brother, Stephan Rainoff, cousin, Thomas Drumme and eleven grandchildren. He was a 
 RAMSEUR -- Thomas M. White & Case LLP acknowledges with great sorrow the death January 27, 2005 of our longtime colleague and dear friend Thomas M. Ramseur, a retired partner of the Firm. Tom Ramseur was a member of White & Case for 30 years until his retirement in 1986. He was an outstandi
 ROGERS--Sydney H. 85, passed away on Friday, February 4, 2005. Syd had lived in Stonington, CT, since 1987 and in Darien, CT, from 1952 to 1987. Syd was born on August 22, 1919, in Fall River, MA, the son of William Prescott and Gretchen Harwood Rogers. He was a graduate of The Middlesex Sc
 ROTHWELL--Peter Falcon. Age 51, of Bloomfield, NJ and East Hampton, NY, died on February 7, 2005 after a brief battle against lymphoma. Beloved brother to Susan Rothwell, Anne Forlines, and James Rothwell, brother-inlaw to Susan Poliak Rothwell and John Forlines, III, and cherished uncle to
 SHUCHAT--Morris (Red), 90, of Deerfield Beach, FL., formerly of Bayside, N.Y., peacefully on February 4, 2005. Survived by his wife of 65 years, Molly, sons Alan and Jeffrey, daughters Alix and Jacqueline, grandchildren Mark, Jacqueline, Vera, Allison and Jake, and great grandson Harry. He 
 TENGA--Carmine M. on February 7, 2005. Retired acting Superintendent of New York State Banking Department. Former President of Cross County Federal Savings & Loan, and currently on the Board of Directors of Atlantic Bank. Beloved husband of Joyce. Dear brother of Michelina and Grace. Cheris
 TOBIN--Saul. We have lost a dear and treasured friend. Saul was one very special person. His charity and his endeavors on behalf of the Tucson Community were endless. Our heartfelt sympathy to Sue, Eric, Sarah, Jeff and the grandchildren. Elaine & Julie Litvack       
 TURI--Dr. Paul George. 87, on February 7, 2005. Winner of the 1934 Hungarian national mathematics prize, denied entry to medical school under fascist laws and confined to slave labor during World War II, he escaped to America in 1956. He worked for three decades as a Ph.D. research chemist 
 Stephen R. Gregg, who was awarded the Medal of Honor in World War II for charging a German outpost in France while he was an Army sergeant, enabling the rescue of seven American soldiers lying wounded on the battlefield, died on Friday at his home in Bayonne, N.J. He was 90. His dea
 Victor Castelli, a soloist with the New York City Ballet, died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Medical Center; he was 52. His death was announced by Siobhan Burns, the company's associate director of communications, who said the cause was pneumonia. Mr. Castelli received a diag
 Edward R. Dudley, a retired New York judge and former borough president of Manhattan whose manifold career took him from civil rights advocacy to an ambassadorship in Africa, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 93 and lived in Harlem. The cause was prostate c
 John Patterson, a television director whose frequent work on crime shows included every season finale of ''The Sopranos'' on HBO, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 64. The cause was prostate cancer, HBO announced. Mr. Patterson was long drawn to cop programs,
 BERGER -- Alexander, 83, died February 9, 2005 with his wife and children at his side. Beloved husband of Phyllis, loved father of Peter and Marsha, brother of Norman. Writer, accountant, concerned citizen of the world, veteran of WWII, a critical thinker with an inquiring mind. Funeral ser
 GORENSTEIN--Samuel. On February 9th, 2005. He is survived by his wife Shirley, his sons Ethan and Gabriel, his daughter-in-law Margee, his brother Paul and his cherished and devoted grandsons Eleazer and Julian. As a young man, he served his country as a navigator aboard a B-17 bomber in th
 GREESON--Stan, 78, died February 5, 2005 in Palm Springs, CA of complications from Alzheimer's. He was a theatrical manager for 20 years, President of the Harlem Globetrotters for 10 years, and served in the Air Force during World War II. Remembered for his great jokes and warm heart, he is
 LEVINSON--Samuel, 92, cranky and cheap, but we loved him anyway. Devoted husband of Tyn. Athlete; fun to be with; loved his family, astronomy, classical music, and WNYC. Never bought a golfball in his life. Multi-tasker; could sew, clean, and yell at you all at the same time. Collector of r
 MINIONIS -- Roger. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn on Sunday, February 13, 2005 at 12 noon. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President
 RAINOFF--George R., age 75, of Southern Pines, NC and Douglaston, NY died on February 7, 2005 at his home. Survived by his wife, Betsy, his sons, Brad, Jeff and Greg, Stepsons, John, Robert and Henry Ferris, brother, Stephan Rainoff, cousin, Thomas Drumme and eleven grandchildren. He was a 
 RIVKIN--Anne. On February 9, 2005. Devoted aunt of Jack and his wife Rita, Marvin and his wife Joyce, Howard, Arlene, Michael, Mitchell, and Donna. Graveside services will be held today 11AM, Mount Judah Cemetery, Ridgewood, N.Y.       
 SHIMONY--David. Born on September 23, 1921, passed away on February 8, 2005. He was the beloved husband of Esperance Shimony, and the adored father of Ruth Kiwajko and husband Leon, Dr. Rony Shimony and wife Catherine, and Iriss Shimony and husband Andrew Bogen, and the proud, attentive and
 SHUCHAT--Morris (Red), 90, of Deerfield Beach, FL., formerly of Bayside, N.Y., peacefully on February 4, 2005. Survived by his wife of 65 years, Molly, sons Alan and Jeffrey, daughters Alix and Jacqueline, grandchildren Mark, Jacqueline, Vera, Allison and Jake, and great grandson Harry. He 
 TANZER--Jack. On February 7, 2005 in New York of complications from lung cancer. He was 83. For nearly 40 years, he was a dealer in American and Old Master paintings, having served as president of the Old Master Division of M. Knoedler & Co. in New York from January 1971-February 1985 where
 Arthur Miller, one of the great American playwrights, whose work exposed the flaws in the fabric of the American dream, died Thursday night at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Julia Bolus, his assistant. The author of ''Death
 Christopher Marquis, a reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times, died yesterday in San Francisco. He was 43. He had been staying at the home of a brother, Matthew, who said the cause of death was AIDS. Christopher Marquis, whose specialty was Latin American po
 BALKOFF--Barney, 90, on February 10, 2005, of NYC, formerly of Forest Hills, NY, born in Philadelphia, PA. Predeceased by his wife Mary, daughter Madeleine, and brother George. Survived by his sister Claire Goodman, grandson Jonathan, greatgrandchildren Maxfield and Madeleine. Deeply loved 
 BELODOFF--Sol. Died February 4, 2005. Formerly of Jericho. Survived by 2nd wife, Barbara, five sons, 12 grandchildren, sister Mrs. Harriett Liebowitz, and three nephews. Sol was predeceased by his first wife Annette.       
 DiBIASE--Joseph J., 92, of Pennington, died Friday, at the Stony Brook Assisted Living, Pennington. Born in NYC, he was a graduate of Manhattan College with a BS degree in Chemistry in 1935, New York Law School in 1941 LLB, and Brooklyn Law School JSD. He was a member of Alpha Phi Delta fra
 HOLLAND--Jerome M. on February 11. Survived by his wife Rose, son Marc and wife Marion, daughter Susan and husband Ron, grandchildren Michele, Craig, Alan and Rachel and great granddaughter Corrine. We love you and we miss you. Services Sunday.       
 MAONI--Antonio, 54. Born on the island of Corsica, he fulfilled his dream of coming to live in America and finding love, happiness and success here. He died in New York, Saturday, February 5, 2005 only 13 days after being diagnosed with small cell lung cancer. Beloved life-companion and hus
 McNAMEE--Edmund J. on February 10, 2005 at age 87. Beloved husband of Lillian (nee McCarthy). Loving father of Maureen and her husband Frank Liantonio, Michele Sullivan, Monica Fleming & the late Margaret Ellen McNamee. Grandfather of Kiera and Bridget. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell
 MILLER--Arthur. The Council of the Dramatists Guild of America mourns the death of legendary playwright Arthur Miller. For over 60 years, his unique voice challenged us as individuals and as a nation to question who we were, who we are, and who we wanted to be. ''In the theater, you have th
 RAPKIN--Edwin, on February 10, 2005. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Adored father of Shelley Singer and Ellen Berger. Cherished Poppa of Aaron, Josh, Alyson and Holly. Services Sunday, 2PM at Temple Sinai, 425 Roslyn Road, Roslyn Heights, NY. RAPKIN--Edwin. Temple Sinai of Roslyn recor
 ROBBINS--Dr. Anthony Lee, 69, of N. Egremont, MA and of Manhattan died February 8, 2005. Services will be held at the Birches-Roy Funeral Home, Great Barrington, MA on Sunday, February 13 at 3 pm. He leaves behind his wife Ellen A. Robbins and five children. In lieu of flowers, expressions 
 SPANBOCK--Jonathan Harris. On February 10, 2005. Beloved husband of Carol. Adored father of Sara, Dina and Benjamin. Cherished son of Marion and Maurice. Dearest brother of Betsy and Andrew. SPANBOCK--Jonathan. It is with profound sadness that the Heschel community extends its sympa
 WERKSTELL--Leslie J. Died suddenly, February 11, 2005 after a short illness. He was 59. Beloved, adored and cherished husband to Lisa, loving father to Josh and Justin, precious son to Marion and Seymour, darling brother to Louise, wonderful son-in-law to Laura and Murray, dear brother-in-l
 ZUCKER--Leonard. 2/12/93. Great father, friend, and wit. Missed by all who knew him. Marian and Laur       
 Karl Linn, a prominent landscape designer who created opulent spaces for some of the country's best-known architects but abandoned the work to spend the rest of his career building community gardens in devastated urban neighborhoods, died on Feb. 3 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 81.
 ALLEN--Julius ''Julie'', Ph.D., of Houston, TX, passed away on Thursday, February 10, 2005 in the company of his loving family. He was a devoted husband and father, an internationally recognized cardiovascular research scientist, Director of the Graduate Program for Cardiovascular Sciences 
 BELODOFF--Sol. Died February 4, 2005. Formerly of Jericho. Survived by 2nd wife, Barbara, five sons, 12 grandchildren, sister Mrs. Harriett Liebowitz, and three nephews. Sol was predeceased by his first wife Annette.       
 BRANIFF--John F. III. Kane Lodge No. 454, F. & A. M. announces with profound sorrow the death of Bro. John F. Braniff III on February 8, 2005. A lifelong resident of Staten Island, he was Raised in Kane Lodge on December 3, 1991. He is survived by his wife Sonia, three daughters and extende
 CHARKIN--Norton, age 93, died peacefully on February 6, 2005. Beloved husband for 70 years of Selma. Adored father of Eileen Weiler Judell (Robert) & the late Joy Ganney. Cherished grandfather of Pamela Weiler Grayson (Douglas), Andrew Weiler (Cecilia), and Ryan Ganney. Devoted great-grandf
 COMINS--Frederic Marshall, of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., died peacefully, at home, February 8th, after a long battle with Prostate Cancer. Born in New York City, October 8, 1916, Fred graduated from Fieldston School in 1933 and graduated Magna Cum Laude, in Economic Theory, from Harvard Colleg
 DANNENBERG--Ronald R., longstanding member of the Park Slope business community, passed away peacefully at his home with his family on February 11, 2005. He is remembered by his loving family, friends and associates. Service Sunday, 1:15 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.  
 De SCHILL--Stefan. Friends and colleagues mourn the passing of Stefan de Schill, director of research of the American Mental Health Foundation since 1948, and a tireless campaigner for improved methods of mental-health training and treatment. De Schill died in New York City on February 9, 2
 deSHONG--C. I., Jr. 79, father of Nancy Godwin (Colorado), Mark Clemmens (Boston), and Paige Lewis (Caldy, England), died of lung cancer in Caldy, England, January 15, 2005 after being treated by wonderful health care professionals in Arrow Park Hospital there. Born on October 29th 1925 in 
 FRISCH--Richard. 74, born in NYC, and longtime resident of Conneticut, was taken from us on February 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Eleanor, loving and devoted father of Christopher and Hilary. Also survived by brother Dr. Alan Frisch, and nieces. He will never leave our hearts and our thought
 GALLAGHER--John. The partners, attorneys and staff of Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner note with profound sorrow the untimely loss of our partner, colleague and true friend, John Gallagher. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Marlene, and their children, Justin, Joy and G
 GORD--James Q. Formerly of New York City, died February 7 at home in Bryn Mawr, PA. Survived by son Benjamin, daughter - in - law Anne and grandchildren Sarah, Sam and Andrew of Wellesley, MA. He will be greatly missed by those who knew and loved him. Funeral mass will be held at the Church
 HAGEDORN--Horace. The Buckley Country Day School community mourns the passing of our good friend Horace Hagedorn. As a former parent and grandparent, and member of the Board of Trustees from 1986 to 1992, Horace shared his wisdom and leadership in the areas of marketing, personnel, developm
 HOLLAND--Jerome M. on February 11. Survived by his wife Rose, son Marc and wife Marion, daughter Susan and husband Ron, grandchildren Michele, Craig, Alan and Rachel and great granddaughter Corrine. We love you and we miss you. Services Sunday.       
 KARTEN -- Mortimer King. Age 89, of NYC, died on February 6, 2005 after a long illness at Beth Israel Hospital/ Jacob Perlow Hospice in Manhattan. A decorated officer in the U.S. Army during the Second World War, commended for his resourcefulness, courage and concern for the men he commande
 KOTLER--Jack. On February 11, 2005. Beloved husband of Harriet for 62 years. Loving father to Michael and Beth, and Ira and Wendy. Adored grandfather to Joanna and Alex. Papa Jack was cherished by all and he will be deeply missed.       
 LEVINSON--Samuel, 92, cranky and cheap, but we loved him anyway. Devoted husband of Tyn. Athlete; fun to be with; loved his family, astronomy, classical music, and WNYC. Never bought a golfball in his life. Multi-tasker; could sew, clean, and yell at you all at the same time. Collector of r
 LOHMAN--Sidney Irving, 95, died on February 3. Sidney had a 31 year career with the New York Times starting in 1941. He held various positions until his retirement in 1972. He had a byline for many years working in the Radio Department. It became the Radio and Television Department as TV br
 MAONI--Antonio, 54. Born on the island of Corsica, he fulfilled his dream of coming to live in America and finding love, happiness and success here. He died in New York, Saturday, February 5, 2005 only 13 days after being diagnosed with small cell lung cancer. Beloved life-companion and hus
 MAX--Rabbi Kalman. The Members of Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst mourn the passing of our beloved Ritual Director/Associate Rabbi of 40 years, Rabbi Kalman Max. He touched our lives in a gentle and kind manner. His teaching went well beyond the written word. We extend our deepest condolences 
 MILLER--Arthur. Todd Haimes, the Board of Directors and staff of the Roundabout Theatre Company deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend, Arthur Miller. He will live on forever in his extraordinary plays. MILLER--Arthur. The members of the American Academy of Arts and Letters not
 MOELIS--Frances. On February 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Larry. Loving mother of Herb and his wife Ellen, Marvin and his wife Marilyn, and Jay and his wife Barbara. Dear sister of Sophie Hankin and Roslyn Becker. Adoring grandmother of Ron, Ken, Cindy, Gary, Sheryl, Jeff, Craig and R
 PARKS--Roy H. On January 29, 2005. Beloved brother, uncle and friend. Best friend to his cats Alfonso and Fiore. Contributions to amfAR, 120 Wall Street, 13th Flr, New York, New York 10005-3908.       
 SCHEER--Florence. On February 8, 2005. Loving mother of Gus, and his wife Elizabeth, and George. Adoring grandmother of Matthew, Daniel, Melanie, Amanda and Michael. Dear aunt of Trudy and Beth Cohen.       
 SPANBOCK--Jonathan Harris. On February 10, 2005. Beloved husband of Carol. Adored father of Sara, Dina and Benjamin. Cherished son of Marion and Maurice, dearest brother of Betsy and Andrew. Contributions may be made to The Abraham Joshua Heschel School Scholarship Fund or Lincoln Square Sy
 TANZER--Jack. On February 7, 2005 in New York of complications from lung cancer. He was 83. For nearly 40 years, he was a dealer in American and Old Master paintings, having served as president of the Old Master Division of M. Knoedler & Co. in New York from January 1971-February 1985 where
 TAYLOR--Brainerd Ocampo, of New York City and New Boston, NH, died of a sudden infection, February 8. His exceptional grace, wit, charm and intelligence endeared him to all who knew him. After Middlesex School, Harvard, and the Harvard Graduate School of Design, he practiced as urban planne
 TOBIN--Saul. We have lost a dear and treasured friend. Saul was one very special person. His charity and his endeavors on behalf of the Tucson Community were endless. Our heartfelt sympathy to Sue, Eric, Sarah, Jeff and the grandchildren. Elaine & Julie Litvack       
 WERKSTELL--Leslie J. Died suddenly, February 11, 2005 after a short illness. He was 59. Beloved, adored and cherished husband to Lisa, loving father to Josh and Justin, precious son to Marion and Seymour, darling brother to Louise, wonderful son-in-law to Laura and Murray, dear brother-in-l
 WHITE--David Glenn, on February 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Adam. Dear son of Nancy Vest. Devoted brother of Cindy. He will be always missed and remembered.       
 WITTENBERG--Lester H., of Chappaqua, NY died February 9, 2005. He was born December 11, 1929 and married Marian E. Harrington, August 21, 1954. He is survived by his wife, son Thomas, daughters Marian, Catherine and Caroline, their spouses and seven grandchildren. Friends may call Sunday 2-
 ZAK--Frederick G., M.D. 89, on February 5, 2005. Loving, devoted husband of Sylvia Zak, cherished father of Vivien and Ronald, dear uncle of Anthony. Consummate physician, eloquent author and professor of pathology. Born and raised in Vienna, he endured the atrocities of the Holocaust to li
 HALPERIN--Theodore P. Will be honored by family and friends in a Service of Remembrance on Sunday, February 20th, 11 o'clock in the morning at The Mark Hotel, 25 East 77 Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his name can be sent to The Riverdale Mental Health Association, Jewish Fami
 Fritz Scholder, an American expressionist painter and sculptor whose ''Indian'' series of paintings in the 1960's and 70's reimagined the depiction of Native Americans, died on Thursday in Phoenix. He was 67 and lived in Scottsdale, Ariz. The cause was complications of diabetes, sai
 Howard Ernest Gruber, a scholar of cognitive psychology who was noted for his books on the development of Darwin's thinking on evolution, died on Jan. 25 in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived on the Upper West Side. He died in a nursing home of pneumonia after a long illness, said Doris
 Dr. Jeremy Swan, a cardiologist and medical innovator who developed a revolutionary catheter to measure blood flow and heart functions, died last Monday in Los Angeles. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, his family said. The catheter, known as the Swan-Ganz and created 
 Rear Adm. John Harllee, a decorated veteran of fighting in the Pacific in World War II and former chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission, died Feb. 5 in Bethesda, Md. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Admiral Harllee was a lieutenant stationed at Pear
 Mort Fega, a veteran disc jockey who was a familiar presence on the New York jazz scene of the 1960's, died on Jan. 21 in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 83 and lived in Delray Beach, Fla. The cause was complications of back surgery, his wife, Muriel, told The Associated Press. A
 ALSON--Ernest Stanley. 82, of Harrison, NY, and Singer Island, FL, died Friday in Palm Beach, FL. A CPA, entrepreneur and corporate executive with World Wide Holdings NY for more than half a century. A graduate of Brooklyn Poly Prep and the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, he wa
 DAVIS--Ossie. The Writers Guild of America, East, mourns the passing of its distinguished member Ossie Davis. His contributions to us reach far beyond his art in bringing opportunity, justice and inspiration to generations past and future. We honor his memory by continuing his work. Herb Sa
 FLANDERS--Peter. Died on Saturday, February 12, after a long struggle with leukemia complicated by emphysema. His wife Rickie (Rochelle), daughters Katharine Mukherji and Tamzen Flanders, son Tony Flanders, and sonin-law Rajat Mukherji were present when his heart stopped. He is also survive
 GALLAGHER--John. The partners, attorneys and staff of Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner note with profound sorrow the untimely loss of our partner, colleague and true friend, John Gallagher. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Marlene, and their children, Justin, Joy and G
 MILLER--Arthur. The Writers Guild of America, East, mourns the passing of its distinguished member Arthur Miller. In 1993 he received the WGA East's Burkey Award ''for one whose contributions have brought dignity and honor to writers everywhere.'' He will be missed as one of the greatest wr
 MULLAN--William Richard, 70, died on February 5th in Tucson, AZ. A former advertising executive with Ted Bates & Co. and Ally & Gargano, his warmth and provocative humor continue to live in the memories of those who knew him. Despite many personal struggles, he generously and indiscriminate
 RUDOLPH--Louis. A beautiful soul, gone to rest. Deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Fran. Jerry and Carol Berman       
 SPANBOCK--Jonathan Harris. All of us at Kleinberg, Kaplan, Wolff & Cohen offer our sincerest condolences to the family of our friend and colleague, Maurice Spanbock, on the untimely passing of his son, Jonathan. Our thoughts are with Maury and his wife Marion, Jonathan's wife Carol and thei
 TORNABENE -- Frank. Co founder of Scafa-Tornabene Art Publishing, died February 9, 2005, in Tucson, AZ, at age 80. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Lyn Tornabene; his grandson Luke; his sister Ninfa Leddo. His daughter Wendy Lyn predeceased him. Mr. Tornabene served in the South Paci
 Tyrone Davis, a Chicago singer who melded the ache of the blues with a more sophisticated, urban soul style in a string of hits in the 1960's and 70's, died on Wednesday in Hinsdale, Ill., near Chicago. He was 66 and lived in Oak Brook, Ill. The cause was pneumonia, said Leo Graham,
 BALL--Simon. Beloved husband of Leah for 59 years, cherished father of Marsha Cohen (David), and Ellen B. Sontag (Harvey), passed away peacefully at home in Del Ray Beach, FL, just after dawn, February 14 at the age of 83. Adored Zaydie to Ian Cohen, and Adam and Jeffrey Sontag. He celebrat
 BERMAN--Lazar. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of the eminent Russian pianist Lazar Berman on February 6 in Florence, Italy at the age of 74. A valued member of our Steinway Artist family for thirty years, Mr. Berman will be widely remembered as one of t
 EHRLING--Sixten. The Juilliard community mourns the death of Sixten Ehrling, a distinguished conductor and teacher who served on the Juilliard faculty from 1973-1987. An artist of supreme musical integrity and dedication, he will be missed by us all. His gift of several thousand of his scor
 KASSNER--John J. Age 95. On January 26, 2005. Graduate of Polytechnic University, co-founder of John J. Kassner and Company, Inc., Consulting Engineers. A highly respected civil engineer, the firm under his leadership worked on designs of major traffic arteries and bridges in New Jersery, C
 O'REILLY -- Brendan P. Passed away peacefully on February 12, 2005. He was 64 and was born in New York City. Beloved son of the late Vincent and Della. Beloved brother of James, Gerard & Marianne, Theresa and Edward Pisacreta, Joseph and Joan and Paul and Mary Ellen and the late Patrick and
 ROTHSTEIN--Bertram. On February 13, 2005. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Adored father of Nancy and Eric, Patti and Adam. Loving ''Pop Pop'' of Corey, Nikki and Kylie. Dear brother-in-law of Judi, Michael and Harriet. Brother of the late Sanford. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside, 1450 Broadway,
 SANDE--Charles. Born April 10, 1915 died February 13, 2005. Childhood sweetheart and husband of 66 years to Ruth, loving father to Harvey & Marilyn, embracing fatherin-law to Lynn and Richard, and ardent grandfather to Rachel and Amy. Charlie had a magnetic enthusiasm that lit up his eyes. 
 STERN--Herman, 91. February 12, 1914--February 13, 2005. Of Tenafly, New Jersey. Born Cologne, Germany. Beloved Patriarch of the Stern family. Known to all as Uncle Herman. Predeceased by his dear wife, Lily. Survived by his siblings, Rose Stern Lipshitz, Emanuel Stern, Emma Stern. His niec
 TEPLIN--Milton A., 94, of New Rochelle, New York, on Saturday, February 12, 2005 at The Hebrew Home in Riverdale, NY. Son of Sarah and Joseph Teplin. He was the husband of Ruth Prager Teplin, who died in 1994, and the father of Judith Meltzer of New Rochelle and Amy Post of New York City. H
 WERKSTELL--Leslie J. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Leslie J. Werkstell, a treasured friend of the New York Jewish community who strengthened our ability to care for those in need through his dedication and s
 WIDDRINGTON--Peter N. T. The Board of Directors, Officers and Staff of Radiology Corporation of America deeply mourn the passing of our beloved and admired colleague, Peter Widdrington. Peter, in his responsibilities as Vice-Chairman of our Board was quick to employ his wisdom, experience a
 WOLF--Henry. The Trustees, faculty, staff, and students of New School University and Parsons School of Design express their deep sadness at the sudden loss of Henry Wolf. An influential designer, photographer, and art director, Henry Wolf was among the shapers of twentieth century publicati
 Rafik Hariri, a billionaire contractor who plunged into the maelstrom of Lebanese politics to rebuild his war-ravaged country and twice served as prime minister, died on Monday in a huge car bomb explosion in Beirut. He was 60. Mr. Hariri, who had always surrounded himself with body
 Dick Weber, perhaps the greatest bowler ever and for more than a half-century an international ambassador for the sport, died Monday at his home in Florissant, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis. He was 75. Weber's wife, Juanita, said he had experienced breathing problems and could not be r
 Henry Wolf, the graphic designer and photographer who, as art director of Esquire, Harper's Bazaar and Show magazines in the 1950's and 60's, held sway over American periodical design, died on Monday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 80. He was found dead by his assistant, thoug
 Lawrence G. Rawl, who led an overhaul of Exxon's operations in the 1980's and shaped the company's response to the Exxon Valdez oil spill, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Worth. He was 76. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Mr. Rawl spent
 BERMAN--Lazar. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of the eminent Russian pianist Lazar Berman on February 6 in Florence, Italy at the age of 74. A valued member of our Steinway Artist family for thirty years, Mr. Berman will be widely remembered as one of t
 HARIRI--Rafic. The Trustees of the American University of Beirut are shocked and saddened by the news of the calamity that has befallen Lebanon and the world in the loss of Rafic Hariri, our fellow Trustee. Not only was he one of the great leaders in the Middle East, but he was also admired
 HOMBURGER -- Kurt. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of its devoted benefactor, Kurt Homburger, of Atlanta, GA. His passion for the Institute's mission of Science for the Benefit of Humanity was an inspiration. We offer condolences to his twin b
 KUPERSMITH--Irving. Age 95. On February 14, 2005. Beloved husband of Sarah. Loving father of Fredric and Phyllis Jacobs, stepfather of Phyllis Cohen and Joan Easton. His extended family included seven grandchildren and ten great grandchildren. Past Grand Master and longtime distinguished br
 ROBBINS--Les, on February 11, 2005. Beloved son of Norman and the late Selma. Loving brother of Curtis, Shelley and Meryl. Fantastic uncle to Ben, Lindsay, Rebecca, Blake and Todd. Devoted New York City Public High School teacher. He was loved by many and will be deeply missed. Funeral serv
 ROEMER--Marty. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member Marty Roemer. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Private services were held. Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir Freddie Roman, Dean       
 TENGA--Carmine M. The New York State Banking Department acknowledges with great sorrow the passing of our dear friend, and former colleague, Carmine M. Tenga. Mr. Tenga was a Career Examiner with the Banking Department, joining in 1968. Through hard work and determination, he rose through t
 WOLF--Henry. One of the foremost graphic designers of the Twentieth Century, died at his home in Manhattan on February 14, 2005. He was seventy-nine years old. Born in 1925 in Vienna, Henry studied art in Austria and France, before arriving in the United States in 1941. After serving in the
 MELTZER--Elton. Remembered with everlasting love and treasured memories by his adoring wife, children, and grandchildren       
 Sixten Ehrling, a Swedish conductor of vigor and precision who conducted at the Metropolitan Opera, was the music director of the Detroit Symphony for a decade, and directed the conducting programs at the Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Music, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He wa
 Marcello Viotti, a prominent Swiss-born conductor with a flourishing European career, died yesterday in a hospital in Munich. He was 50. His brother, Silvio Viotti, announced his death. A spokesman for the Bavarian Radio said Mr. Viotti had a stroke last week after a rehearsal for a
 Otto Plaschkes, a British producer of films including the spy thriller ''Hopscotch'' (1980) and the dark comedy ''Georgy Girl'' (1966), died on Monday in London. He was 75. The cause was heart failure, said Rob Gerlach, a friend. Mr. Plaschkes gravitated to wry screenplays t
 Owen Allred, head of the Apostolic United Brethren, one of Utah's largest polygamous denominations, died on Monday at his home in Bluffdale, a suburb of Salt Lake City. He was 91. His death was announced by his son Carl. Mr. Allred's group, thought to have about 6,000 member
 AYVAZIAN--Dr. John H. 83, died on February 11, 2005. Formerly Chief of Staff of the Manhattan Veterans Administration Hospital, he is survived by a wife, two children, and two grandchildren. He served in Signal Corps during W.W. II and graduated from Dartmouth College and Harvard Medical Sc
 BEARE--Gene Kerwin, Executive and Director of numerous high profile companies in the electronics, telecommunications, defense, paper manufacturing and other fields, died February 15, 2005 in St. Louis, MO. He was 89.       
 BESAS--Alan Ernest. A retired orthodontist, died Saturday in Norwalk, CT at 74 following a stroke. A resident of Norwalk and previously New Canaan, Dr. Besas was born in New York City to the late Max and Elsa Besas. He attended Brown University (Class of 51) and earned a DDS from UPenn in 1
 BUNKER--Charles Sheffield. Age 63, of Austerlitz, New York died February 7, 2005 at Albany Medical Center. A graduate of East Woods and Portsmouth Abbey Schools, Yale and Columbia, he taught at Saint David's School and the Greenvale School. Son of the late Charles Cantine Bunker and Mavis M
 CHERTOK -- Bernard, 74. Passed away on Tuesday, February 15. He was born in the Bronx, NY and has lived in Wayne, NJ since 1963. He was the President of Sherman Grinberg Film Libraries/ABC News, NYC, for 40 years, then he was an inspiration for 10 years for his daughter's company Re:Search 
 EHRLING--Sixten. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of the distinguished conductor Sixten Ehrling, who led 92 performances during his five seasons with our company. He introduced Bartok's ''Bluebeard's Castle'' to the Met repertory, and also led such diverse works as ''Peter Grimes,'' 
 EMER--Herman, died peacefully on February 14th at age 96. A lifelong resident of New York City, Mr. Emer had a long and distinguished career in public service. A graduate of Brooklyn Law School, he served as Chief Investigator of the Workmen's Compensation Board and as an Assistant Attorney
 FAWCETT--Keith, 50, February 13, 2005. Graduated from Grinnell College and received a Master's of Economics from the University of Pennsylvania. He was employed by CBS, Inc. from about 1983-until 1995, and worked as a Media/Broadcasting/Cable analyst for the past nine years at Merrill Lynch
 FEIN--Michael. A gentle man who enjoyed life and lived it fully passed away on February 12, 2005. He will be loved always and missed greatly, but his memory will always be present. Memorial service to be announced.       
 GREGG--Thomas, a long time resident of Topeka, Kansas died peacefully February 15 at the age of 80. A man of tremendous warmth and perpetual good humor, he was the loving husband of Ann. He is also survived by Gail of New York City, Judith Gregg Peters of Long Beach, CA, Tyler of San Diego,
 HARIRI--Rafic. The Trustees of the American University of Beirut are shocked and saddened by the news of the calamity that has befallen Lebanon and the world in the loss of Rafic Hariri, our fellow Trustee. Not only was he one of the great leaders in the Middle East, but he was also admired
 KLEIN--Alfred, 91. Loving and devoted husband, father of four, grandfather of five, great-grandfather of two and friend to all. Married for 64 years to Beatrice, his ''Lucy''. CPA for more than 65 years. ''Family is everything''.       
 KLEIN--Harold, 92, peacefully on February 16, 2005. Survived by his most beloved wife Lillian of 66 years, his three children, Ellen Siroka Robinson, Jane W. Parver and Tony Klein, his son-in-law Don Robinson, his daughter-in-law Jennifer Boyer Klein and his three grandchildren Matthew Siro
 PRESTON--Stuart. Died in Paris on February 10th. He was born in 1915, educated at Yale and was an extraordinary presence in London during World War II prior to landing at Normandy in 1944. Author and former art editor for the New York Times, he lived in New York, London and Paris after the 
 SCHWARTZ--Bernard S., on February 14, age 94. Beloved husband of Ida, father of Jonathan, father-in-law of Marcella, grandfather of Alexander. Attorney, investor, poet. He will be terribly missed. Private service. SCHWARTZ--Bernard S. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York ex
 STALL--Alec. Age 23. A tragic skiing accident February 14 took the life of this outstanding young man. Our heartfelt condolences to his loving parents, Todd and Carol, sisters Kara and Morgan, grandparents and extended family. He lived life to the fullest but not long enough. Aileen and Mey
 WOLF--Henry. One of the foremost graphic designers of the Twentieth Century, died at his home in Manhattan on February 14, 2005. He was seventy-nine years old. Born in 1925 in Vienna, Henry studied art in Austria and France, before arriving in the United States in 1941. After serving in the
 WHEN the nomination of Bernard B. Kerik for homeland security secretary unraveled in December, Joseph Tacopina became an extremely busy lawyer. He logged 316 calls on his cellphone on Dec. 11 and 12 after his client abruptly withdrew his nomination, saying he had not paid taxes for a nanny 
 Martin J. Hillenbrand, a former State Department expert on European affairs who was ambassador to Hungary and Germany, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 89. His death was announced by the University of Georgia, where he was Dean Rusk emeritus professor of internationa
 COFFIN--Dexter Drake, Jr. Of Palm Beach, FL, the Ocean Reef Club in Key Largo, FL, and a summer resident of Winter Harbor, ME, died on Monday, February 14, 2005. Mr. Coffin was a descendant of Tristram Coffin, one of the original settlers of Nantucket Island, MA. His family's company, The D
 EMER--Herman, died peacefully on February 14th at age 96. A lifelong resident of New York City, Mr. Emer had a long and distinguished career in public service. A graduate of Brooklyn Law School, he served as Chief Investigator of the Workmen's Compensation Board and as an Assistant Attorney
 FISHER--Bertram D., 76, of Manhattan and Sagaponack, NY died peacefully on February 17, 2005 with his family at his side. He was a founding partner with Fred Queller in 1970 of the New York law firm, Queller & Fisher LLP, and was selected by The New York Law Journal ''Best Negligence Lawyer
 GREGG--Thomas, a long time resident of Topeka, Kansas died peacefully February 15 at the age of 80. A man of tremendous warmth and perpetual good humor, he was the loving husband of Ann. He is also survived by Gail of New York City, Judith Gregg Peters of Long Beach, CA, Tyler of San Diego,
 HARIRI--Rafic. The Trustees of the American University of Beirut are shocked and saddened by the news of the calamity that has befallen Lebanon and the world in the loss of Rafic Hariri, our fellow Trustee. Not only was he one of the great leaders in the Middle East, but he was also admired
 KLEIN--Harold. The Trustees, staff and professional advisors of United Scenic Artists Local 829 Pension and Welfare Funds, are saddened by the news of the passing of Harold Klein on February 16, 2005. Mr. Klein was a Charter Trustee. His advice and counsel will be greatly missed. KL
 NESVIG--Timothy Willem, of New York City, died February 8, 2005, at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, CA, after a courageous 18-month battle against lymphoma. The disease overcame him, but never defeated him. He was 30 and lived in New York City. Tim was an account executive at ESPN
 NEWMAN--Wallace. On February 17, 2005 at age 80. Beloved husband of the late Judy. Loving father of Lynda Maer, Howard Newman and Fran Cooper, and father-inlaw of Alan. Adoring grandfather to Samantha, Jamie, Michael and Perri, and his caregiver Eslyn Cooper.       
 STALL--Alec. Age 23. A tragic skiing accident February 14 took the life of this outstanding young man. Our heartfelt condolences to his loving parents, Todd and Carol, sisters Kara and Morgan, grandparents and extended family. He lived life to the fullest but not long enough. Aileen and Mey
 VIOTTI--Marcello. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the untimely death of our cherished colleague and friend, Marcello Viotti. He joined the Met only five years ago, but he had already made a major contribution to the musical life of our company, and we had looked forward to years of artistic c
 YUNG--Alan. Passed away peacefully February 13, 2005. He is survived by his brothers Martin and Richard, and his sisters Shirley and Suzanne. Our family will remember Alan forever for his sense of humor, generous spirit and devotion to family and faith. Memorial services at True Light Luthe
 Dr. Paul E. Lacy, a pathologist who was known as the father of islet cell transplants, an experimental treatment for Type 1 diabetes, died Tuesday in Zanesville, Ohio. He was 81. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, a chronic lung disease, said his son Paul E. Lacy Jr. Dr. Lacy
 Samuel W. Alderson, a physicist and engineer who was a pioneer in developing the long-suffering, curiously beautiful human surrogates known as automotive crash-test dummies, died Feb. 11 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 90. The cause was complications of myelofibrosis and pneumoni
 ALSON--Ernest. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Ernest Alson and extend to his bereaved wife Elaine and the members of his family our sincere condolences. Bruce D. Frank, President Roger Eichel, Secretary  
 BINDLER--Norman, on February 17. Service at Green - Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY on February 28 at 1:30 PM. He will be loved and remembered always. For information, please call Frank E. Campbell (the funeral chapel), 212-288-3500.       
 GIMON--Jean-Paul, 68, died on Wednesday, February 16, 2005. He will be remembered for his distinguished career in international finance, his love of the mountains, his Catholic faith and philanthropic actions, and, above all, for his devotion to his family. Born in France, in 1936, he recei
 GREGG--Thomas, a long time resident of Topeka, Kansas died peacefully February 15 at the age of 80. A man of tremendous warmth and perpetual good humor, he was the loving husband of Ann. He is also survived by Gail of New York City, Judith Gregg Peters of Long Beach, CA, Tyler of San Diego,
 HARIRI--Rafic. The Trustees of the American University of Beirut are shocked and saddened by the news of the calamity that has befallen Lebanon and the world in the loss of Rafic Hariri, our fellow Trustee. Not only was he one of the great leaders in the Middle East, but he was also admired
 NESVIG--Tim. We are deeply saddened by the death of Tim Nesvig. Our condolences to his family: Jon, Hanneke, Mieke and Carrie. With Love, Scott & Claudine       
 ROSENBERG--Marcus, 81, on February 18, 2005 in Dallas, TX. Philanthropist and industrialist with a keen analytical mind. A man of vision who established Arrow Industries and many Jewish institutions. Nothing ever stood in his way. Dearly loved and missed by his wife, Ann (nee Pappenheim); c
 SCHECHTER -- Emanuel (Manny), 97, loving husband of the late Rosalie Cohen Schechter of Harrison, NY and father of public relations executive Stephen M. Schechter of New York City, died peacefully in his sleep after a short illness. Services will be held on Monday, February 21 at 1PM at the
 YUNG--Alan. Passed away peacefully February 13, 2005. He is survived by his brothers Martin and Richard, and his sisters Shirley and Suzanne. Our family will remember Alan forever for his sense of humor, generous spirit and devotion to family and faith. Memorial services at True Light Luthe
 BERMONT--Hubert, 80, NYC native, lately of Chicago, on February 12. Son of the late Georges and Naomi (Horowitz), he was an NYU Graduate, WW II veteran and Purple Heart recipient. Executive Director of Brentano's Bookstores in the Washington, D.C. area (1957-67). His abiding love of books w
 BERNHEIM -- Richard. 97, died February 17, 2005. Graduated Princeton 1929. Served in the Navy, WWII. Past president of R. Neumann and Co., Hoboken, NJ. He is survived by one son Bill, daughter-in-law Joyce, and one grandson Peter.       
 BINDLER--Norman, on February 17. Service at Green - Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY on February 28 at 1:30 PM. He will be loved and remembered always. For information, please call Frank E. Campbell (the funeral chapel), 212-288-3500.       
 BOXER--Robert Alan, MD, age 58, died on February 7th, 2005 after a long, courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. He was the beloved, adored, cherished son of his mother and father, dearly beloved by his brothers, nephews, wife, children, patients, colleagues, and friends. He was a gifted 
 CORWIN--Irving J. February 4, 1924--February 12, 2005. He was a model husband, father and friend who will not be forgotten. He was deeply generous and aware of the abundance of his life. As a partner with the firm Helfat & Gross, he was more than just an accountant to his clients. He is sur
 FELD--Harold. January 5, 1915 - February 19, 2005. Adored husband of the late Isabel. Cherished father of DeeDee and the late Gerry. Loving and proud grandfather of Ben Harris. Devoted brother of the late Max Feld and the late Regina Rosen. Dear brother-in-law of the late Harold Jurman. Mr.
 FINKEL--Paul, passed away February 17, 2005. He was a resident of NYC and later NJ and FL. He loved life to its fullest in particular family. He is survived by his wife Ruth, sons Mark (Naomi), Jeffrey (Evelyn) and Jay and grandchildren Jason, Adam, Jonathan, Susan and Robert.       
 GOUDSMIT--Arnoldus, M.D. Rochester, NY, Friday, February 11, 2005. Age 96. Predeceased by his wife, Hellen C. Goudsmit. He is survived by by four daughters, Doris Albert of Pittsford, NY, Frances (Allan) Tessler of Jackson, WY, Jacqueline Ann Nieman of NYC, and Eleanor (Douglas) Miller of S
 GREGG--Thomas, a long time resident of Topeka, Kansas died peacefully February 15 at the age of 80. A man of tremendous warmth and perpetual good humor, he was the loving husband of Ann. He is also survived by Gail of New York City, Judith Gregg Peters of Long Beach, CA, Tyler of San Diego,
 PALAZZO--Peter, of Staten Island, NYC, and Bolton Landing, well-known graphics man, passed away January 30, 2005. Missed by his children, Peter, Katy and Tony; his grandson, the Whitesons, and loving wife, Danielle. PO Box 826, Bolton Landing, NY 12814       
 ROSENBERG--Marcus, 81, on February 18, 2005 in Dallas, TX. Philanthropist and industrialist with a keen analytical mind. A man of vision who established Arrow Industries and many Jewish institutions. Nothing ever stood in his way. Dearly loved and missed by his wife, Ann (nee Pappenheim); c
 SCHECHTER -- Emanuel (Manny), 97, loving husband of the late Rosalie Cohen Schechter of Harrison, NY and father of public relations executive Stephen M. Schechter of New York City, died peacefully in his sleep after a short illness. Services will be held on Monday, February 21 at 1PM at the
 WEISSMAN--Norman. Born September 12, 1914, Bronx, to Samuel and Rose. Died February 14, 2005, Los Angeles, CA. Attended DeWitt Clinton H.S. Graduated City College, 1935. Ph.D., biochemistry, Columbia P&S, 1941, under the direction of Rudolf Schoenheimer and Harold Urey. He taught and did re
 DRABKIN -- Steven Wayne. 10/19/61--2/23/81. We cherish his memory and remember the warmth of his love. Loving Family       
 Sidney Waxman, a horticulturist who hunted tirelessly for the odd growths on pine trees called witches' brooms whose cones could be propagated into dwarf evergreens for the front lawns of suburbia, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Storrs, Conn. He was 81. The cause was transitional ce
 Stuart Preston, a former art reporter and critic for The New York Times, died on Feb. 9 in Paris, where he had lived for the last 30 years. He was 89. His death, at the American Hospital, was announced by James Fox, a cousin and his executor. Mr. Preston joined the staff of 
 Warren Vach Sr., a bassist, author and historian who was long a mainstay of jazz in New Jersey, died on Feb. 4 in Rahway, N.J. He was 90. The cause was complications of pneumonia and prostate cancer, said his son, the jazz cornetist Warren Vach Jr. Mr. Vach, the father
 Daniel Goodwin, a director of the Smithsonian Institution Press in the 1990's, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 57. The cause was cancer, his wife, Andrea Meditch, said. Mr. Goodwin, who joined the press in the mid-1980's as an acquisitions editor for an
 Hunter S. Thompson, the maverick journalist and author whose savage chronicling of the underbelly of American life and politics embodied a new kind of nonfiction writing he called ''gonzo journalism,'' died yesterday in Colorado. Tricia Louthis, of the Pitkin County Sheriff's Office, said M
 John Raitt, the lyric baritone who created Broadway history as Billy Bigelow in the original production of ''Carousel'' in 1945 and Sid Sorokin in ''The Pajama Game '' a decade later, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his 
 BINDLER--Norman, on February 17. Service at Green - Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY on February 28 at 1:30 PM. He will be loved and remembered always. For information, please call Frank E. Campbell (the funeral chapel), 212-288-3500.       
 MARCUM--Edwin. Of Siesta Key, FL, died peacefully February 19, 2005, at the age of 84. Survived by his wife Norma of 57 years, daughters Carol Dounn and Judi Eichler, son Andy, brother Seymour and five grandchildren. He was founder and partner of Marcum and Kliegman CPA's.       
 MATARASSO -- Daniel. Of Palm Beach, FL, and Rye Brook, NY, on February 19, 2005, in his 80th year, peacefully in his home with his family at his side. Son of HaMaskil Avraham and Dora Matarasso, and brother of Alice Klein. Beloved husband of 53 years of Ethel Hakim, loving father of Dr. Ala
 SCHNALL--Herbert, DDS. 82, died on February 17, 2005, after extended illness. Adored husband of Edith Lea Schnall for 55 years. Beloved and devoted father of Neil David and Carolyn Beth. Dear brother of Lucille Kolodner of Caracas, Venezuela. Donations in his honor may be made to The Queens
 Hunter S. Thompson, the anger-driven, drug-fueled writer for Rolling Stone magazine whose obscenity-laced prose broke down the wall between reader and writer, writer and subject, shot and killed himself on Sunday at his home in Woody Creek, Colo. He was 67. His death was reported by
 BALDRIDGE--Robert Connell, 80, died February 19 suddenly and peacefully at home. Loving husband of the late Nancy Bierwirth Baldridge, beloved father of Alice Wainwright and Jeannie Yates, wonderful grandfather of Alexander & James Bilus, Robert and Nina Wainwright, and Ian, Dylan and Rober
 BELL--Rabbi Harold H. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, whose career was in Jewish education on the faculty of CES-JDS in Rockville, MD. We extend our deep condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.   
 CAPLAN--David, 95. Loving husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather and retired restauraneur, is survived by his most cherished wife of over 60 years, Pat Caplan and daughters Adrienne and Lois and son Lawrence (Ellen). He leaves five grandchildren, Matthew, Glen (Jennifer), Jared, To
 DIMONDSTEIN--Herbert, 80. February 16, 2005. President of former Dimondstein Book Co. Talented sculptor. Loving husband to Sarah, devoted father, grandfather, father-inlaw. Memorial on March 12. Donations in honor of his memory to Hudson River Museum, Yonkers, NY 10701.       
 JAFFE--Harold L., on Sunday February 20, 2005, of Millburn, NJ. Beloved husband of Jo Seelmann and the late Patricia (nee Handler). Devoted father of Kineret, Jonathan, Adam, Seth Jaffe, Tom and Jim Lewis. Loving father-inlaw of Mort Silverman, Helen Winslow, Pam Jorgensen, Genia Long and N
 KAMSLER--Rabbi Harold M. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Congregations Tiferet Israel and B'nai Jacob in PA. We extend our deep condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate, especially
 KREUTZER--S. Stanley. Beloved husband of 68 years to Corinne. Loving father to Cindi and Jack Finlay, and Phyllis and the late Larry Shapiro. Adored grandfather to Andy and Michael Shapiro, and Willow Taraja. Loving brother of Evelyn Cohen and the late Edward. Services Wednesday 10 AM at Te
 MARCUM--Edwin. The Partners and staff of Marcum & Kliegman, LLP mourn the loss of our founding partner, Edwin Marcum. His guidance and leadership will be a source of inspiration to us forever.       
 MATARASSO -- Daniel. Of Palm Beach, FL, and Rye Brook, NY, on February 19, 2005, in his 80th year, peacefully in his home with his family at his side. Son of HaMaskil Avraham and Dora Matarasso, and brother of Alice Klein. Beloved husband of 53 years of Ethel Hakim, loving father of Dr. Ala
 NESVIG--Timothy Willem, of New York City, died February 8, 2005, at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, CA, after a courageous 18-month battle against lymphoma. The disease overcame him, but never defeated him. He was 30 and lived in New York City. Tim was an account executive at ESPN
 PROJANSKY -- David, of White Plains, NY, died peacefully on February 21, 2005, 12 days before his 100th birthday. A kind, sweet, and good humored man, he leaves behind a multitude of friends. For 50 years he was the loving husband of Ella Jacobson Projansky, who predeceased him in 1984. He 
 SHERMAN--Peter, Director of the Joseph Leroy and Ann C. Warner Fund, passed away February 19th, 2005. Beloved husband of Jo Ann Ferdinand and devoted father of Danny. Son of Libby Sherman, brother of Susan Fonseca. He will be greatly missed by all of his family. Services on Tuesday, 1 PM, a
 Robert R. Merhige Jr., a retired federal district judge whose decision ordering school desegregation in Virginia in the early 1970's meant he lived for a time under round-the-clock guard, died last Friday in Richmond. He was 86. His death was announced by the international law firm 
 S. Stanley Kreutzer, a tenacious reform-minded lawyer who served as counsel to New York City and State legislative bodies and drafted a code of ethics for the city that became a model for municipalities across the nation, died on Saturday at Sterling Glen, an assisted living home in Great N
 Guillermo Cabrera Infante, a Cuban novelist in exile whose lavishly textured prose conjured the country he knew before the revolution he once supported, died on Monday at a hospital in London, where he had lived for 39 years. He was 75. The cause was septicemia, a blood infection, h
 BALDRIDGE--Robert Connell, 80, died February 19 suddenly and peacefully at home. Loving husband of the late Nancy Bierwirth Baldridge, beloved father of Alice Wainwright and Jeannie Yates, wonderful grandfather of Alexander & James Bilus, Robert and Nina Wainwright, and Ian, Dylan and Rober
 CARLSON--Felix, 79, on February 18, 2005. Beloved husband of 51 years to Audrey Carlson. Cherished father of son Michael and his fiancee Sonja. Devoted brother of sisters Helen Barkin and the late Rose Harren. Adoring uncle of nieces Jill, Carol, Amy, and Laurie. Loving grandfather of Eric,
 DIMONDSTEIN--Herbert, 80. February 16, 2005. President of former Dimondstein Book Co. Talented sculptor. Loving husband to Sarah, devoted father, grandfather, father-inlaw. Memorial on March 12. Donations in honor of his memory to Hudson River Museum, Yonkers, NY 10701.       
 EHRLICH -- Morris. Died peacefully on February 22, 2005. Born and educated in NYC, he practiced the law he loved for almost 70 years. He is survived by his wife, Lillian, three daughters, Phyllis Florman, Janet Goldman, Alice Richman, and stepdaughter, Merry Feintisch. He was blessed to hav
 FELD--Harold. Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. The Officers, Trustees and Clergy       
 KREUTZER -- Stanley. The LaGuardia Memorial Association mourns the passing of a founding member and a distinguished civic leader. Morton B. Lawrence, secretary KREUTZER -- Stanley. The partners, associates and staff of The Jacob D. Fuchsberg Law Firm mourn the passing of Stanley Kre
 MATARASSO--Daniel. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Daniel Matarasso. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his entire family. Michael Barasch, President Dr. Robert Green, Secretary       
 MILIANS--Max Phillip. The Yeshiva University/Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary family is saddened by the passing of a cherished friend of our institution, where he and his beloved wife, Ruth, established a scholarship fund and provided generous support. Heartfelt condolences are ext
 REDDY--Michael T. 62, of Ramsey, died peacefully Saturday February 19, 2005. Michael was a loving husband, father, step-father and grandfather. Beloved husband of Alisa (nee Krinsky) Reddy for 7-1/2 years. Loving father of Catherine Anne Wright and her husband Neiland of Wyckoff, NJ and Mic
 RUE--Francis J., Jr. 83, died February 21, 2005 in Fort Myers, Fl. after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife Rosina and his four children Mary V. Brodhead (Dal), Francis J., III (Sally), Robin and William B. (Maggie); loving grandfather of Farrar, John, Daniel and Douglas Brodhead, 
 TEITELBAUM -- William. Wonderful husband to the late Beatrice. Dear and special father to Linda and Marc. Loving and devoted grandfather, brother, son, uncle and friend. Compassionate and charitable, he had profound empathy for his fellow man. We will miss him immeasurably, not the least fo
 VIEBRANZ--Alfred Colville, 83, February 18, 2005. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend to many; a writer, marketing executive and a champion of St. Lawrence University. Survived by his wife, Elaine; children Scott (Cristin), Curt (Cissy), Gayle Welch (Rob), Joan Lockwood (Bob) an
 Reggie Roby, who was one of the finest and most durable punters in National Football League history, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 43. Nancy Knox, a business associate, said Roby collapsed after a morning shower and was pronounced dead at St. Thomas Hospital. She said a doctor
 Ara Berberian, a warm-voiced bass who sang for 20 years at the Metropolitan Opera, died early Monday in his sleep at his winter home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Ginny. Mr. Berberian's operatic repertory included more than 100
 David Bradford, an influential tax economist who devised an innovative way to change the income-tax system to encourage people to save and invest more, died on Tuesday in Philadelphia. He was 66 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was burns he suffered after a Christmas tree caug
 Dr. Nathan Wright Jr., an Episcopal minister and scholar who was an early and prominent advocate of black power, died on Tuesday at his home in East Stroudsburg, Pa. He was 81. The cause was kidney disease, his son Chi said. Dr. Wright's greatest fame came in 1967, when he w
 BARLIANT--Samuel. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Samuel Barliant of Chicago and Boca Raton, Fla. A Technion Guardian who reached the highest level of commitment to the ATS, the Technion and Israel, and a devoted member of the Chicago C
 BERBERIAN--Ara. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our dear friend and colleague, Ara Berberian. He sang over 300 performances with us in a broad range of roles, putting his unique imprint on every part he sang. He will be greatly missed by his many friends in the company, and we ex
 DOLKART--Irwin. 1914-2005. Beloved husband of Ellen, father of Jane and Andrew and grandfather of Jennifer. Irwin was an extraordinarily dedicated teacher and chairman inspiring generations of science students at Lafayette High School and the Yeshiva of Flatbush in Brooklyn. He also had a p
 EHRLICH -- Morris. Died peacefully on February 22, 2005. Born and educated in NYC, he practiced the law he loved for almost 70 years. He is survived by his wife, Lillian, three daughters, Phyllis Florman, Janet Goldman, Alice Richman, and stepdaughter, Merry Feintisch. He was blessed to hav
 FELD--Harold. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of our cherished friend and longtime supporter who, with his beloved wife, Isabel, was a YU Guardian. Together they established the Gerald Feld Memorial Fund in loving memory of their son. Harold Feld was a great f
 KLEIN--Eric Seth. On February 22, 2005. Predeceased by his loving father Murray and sister Susan Kamen. Survived by his beloved mother Thelma, two nieces Katy Kamen and Abigail Holland. Also leaving behind a dear friend of 30 years, Jane Ahlquist. Funeral services today 10AM at ''The Rivers
 LEVIN--Arnold A. Beloved husband of Fran. Father of Douglas and Glenn. Grandfather of Jedd, Ariel, Hannah, Elena and Serena. Died on February 22, 2005. He will be deeply missed by all who loved him. Interment private. LEVIN--Arnold A. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York re
 LORD--Robert W. Sons of the Revolution in the State of New York notes with sorrow the death of Board Member Robert W. Lord, a dedicated member of the Society since 1978. Heartfelt condolences to his wife Barbara. John A. O'Malley, President       
 RUE--Francis J., Jr. 83, died February 21, 2005 in Fort Myers, Fl. after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife Rosina and his four children Mary V. Brodhead (Dal), Francis J., III (Sally), Robin and William B. (Maggie); loving grandfather of Farrar, John, Daniel and Douglas Brodhead, 
 SHERMAN -- Peter. The Board, officers and staff of United Cerebral Palsy of NYC note with profound sorrow the passing of our benefactor and friend, Peter Sherman, President of The Joseph LeRoy and C. Warner Fund. His is a rich legacy: A fully accessible playground at our Millicent V. Hearst
 Harald Szeemann, an influential Swiss museum curator whose groundbreaking exhibitions helped redefine his profession, died last Friday in the Ticino region of Switzerland. He was 71. His death was announced by the Venice Biennale and the Kunsthaus Zrich, for which he worked.      
 Harry M. Simeone, a conductor and arranger whose choral singers helped popularize Christmas evergreens like ''The Little Drummer Boy,'' died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side. The death was announced by his family.     
 Hugh W. Nibley, a Mormon religious scholar who was one of the most active and outspoken defenders of Mormon writings and teachings, died yesterday at his home in Provo, Utah. He was 94. A spokesman for the family, Chris Thomas, said Dr. Nibley had been in declining health in recent 
 BEYER--Eugene E., Jr. Former executive vice president and general counsel of the RCA Corporation, died at his home in New York City on February 14, 2005, after a long illness. He was 84. Mr. Beyer joined RCA in 1947 as a tax attorney and was elected general counsel in 1978. Before joining R
 BINDLER--Norman, on February 17. Service at Green - Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY on February 28 at 1:30 PM. He will be loved and remembered always. For information, please call Frank E. Campbell (the funeral chapel), 212-288-3500.       
 FELD--Harold. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the loss of Harold Feld, our longtime friend and supporter. We extend our deepest sympathies to his daughter, Stephanie Feld and grandson, Benjamin Harris. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director FELD--Ha
 FIELDS--Gerald S., 73, of Wyckoff, NJ. Survived by his wife Elinor, sons Howard, Lee and Mark, brother Paul and five grandsons. Services are Sunday, 10 AM at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt. 4 East, Paramus, New Jersey.       
 FRIEDMAN--Rabbi Morris S. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rabbi Morris S. Friedman, a deeply respected leader whose wisdom, dedication, and lifetime commitment to Jewish life and learning profoundly impacted the New York Jewish 
 KAMINSKY -- Peretz. Hus band, Father, Grandfather, Poet, Artist. Leaves behind a loving family and a body of work that made him happy. Funeral Sunday, February 27th, 1PM, Plaza Funeral Home, 630 Amsterdam Ave. at 91st St.       
 LEVIT--Dr. Bernardo, Z''L. On February 23rd, 2005 and was interred on February 24th, 2005 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. May his memory be for a blessing. dr-levit-info@sj-solutions.com       
 MITCHELL--John D., Ed.D., 87, of Key West, FL., New York City and Bryn Athyn, PA. on February 21, 2005. President and Co-Founder of The Institute for Advanced Studies in the Theatre Arts (IASTA). Survived by his wife Miriam (Mimi), his sons John Daniel and Lorenzo, his daughter Barbarina an
 RUSSELL--David Sr., 95, died peacefully in his sleep at home on February 23, 2005. He was born in Manhattan December 5, 1909, eldest son of John Winter and Emma Sargent (Russell) Russell. David Russell was pre-deceased by his first wife Marjorie (Stone) Russell, four brothers and two sister
 Robert Koff, a founding member of the Juilliard String Quartet and a concert violinist who performed on modern and Baroque instruments, died on Tuesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 86. His family said that he had been ill for two years. Mr. Koff, along with the vio
 Tom Patterson, the native son who dreamed of and started the Stratford Festival of Canada, the largest repertory theater in North America, died on Sunday at a hospital in Toronto. He was 84. His death was made public by the festival's artistic director, Richard Monette. Now made up 
 Israel Stollman, an urban planner and former executive director of the American Planning Association in Washington, died on Feb. 2 in Christchurch, New Zealand, where he was on a family visit. He was 82 and lived in Washington. The association, announcing the death, said it resulted
 John Ebstein, an industrial designer employed by Raymond Loewy, the ''father of streamlining,'' who led the team that created the Studebaker Avanti sports car and influenced the look of products including Lucky Strike cigarettes and Greyhound buses, died on Feb. 18 in Palm Beach Gardens, Fl
 BINDLER--Norman, on February 17. Service at Green - Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY on February 28 at 1:30 PM. He will be loved and remembered always. For information, please call Frank E. Campbell (the funeral chapel), 212-288-3500.       
 EDELSTEIN--David S., 92, of Yonkers, NY on February 25th. Beloved husband of Gertrude and the late Frances. Cherished father of Helen (Henry) Freedman, Henry, and Daniel (Stephanie), and stepfather of Allan (Ferne) Sperling. Proud grandfather of Katherine (Brian) and Elizabeth (Clifton) Fre
 FINKELSTEIN--Paul. 85, died on February 25, 2005, after a short courageous battle against cancer. He was a selfmade entrepreneur of several businesses. He was active in NYC and Florida communities and was a member and Past President of B'nai B'rith Queens Council and was currently President
 FRIEDMAN--Rabbi Morris S. Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman LLP mourns the passing of the esteemed Rabbi Morris Friedman, the father of David M. Friedman, a senior partner in the firm. We extend our deepest condolences to David and his family and to all who were touched and enriched throu
 FURMAN--Robert J. On February 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Joan Pietrucha Furman. Devoted father of Holly and Christie. Loving brother of Marilyn Furman O'Donnell and his twin, Richard E. Donations may be made to his fund at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Pediatric Fund, POB 27106, 
 KAMINSKY -- Peretz. Hus band, Father, Grandfather, Poet, Artist. Leaves behind a loving family and a body of work that made him happy. Funeral Sunday, February 27th, 1PM, Plaza Funeral Home, 630 Amsterdam Ave. at 91st St. KAMINSKY--Peretz. Three Arrows mourns the loss of long time m
 LEVIT--Dr. Bernardo, Z''L. On February 23rd, 2005 and was interred on February 24th, 2005 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. May his memory be for a blessing. dr-levit-info@sj-solutions.com       
 MEYERS--Murray, 87, of New York, died peacefully February 22, 2005. As the consummate New Yorker, he presided over Murray's Market on the West Side for 50 years as butcher, philosopher, poet and social worker. Predeceased by his wife Belle and survived by his loving daughter Laurie and cher
 MITCHELL--John D., Ed.D., 87, of Key West, FL., New York City and Bryn Athyn, PA. on February 21, 2005. President and Co-Founder of The Institute for Advanced Studies in the Theatre Arts (IASTA). Survived by his wife Miriam (Mimi), his sons John Daniel and Lorenzo, his daughter Barbarina an
 MOSS -- Benjamin. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Benjamin Moss. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, President       
 MAVRIKIS--Dimitri. He left us in body February 17, 2004, but his wonderful spirit lives on. And so, friends and colleagues are invited to gather with Dimitri's family, February 27, at 4 Earl St. in Toronto, 1-4PM. 416-969-9987.       
 Henry A. Grunwald, a refugee from Nazi-dominated Austria who rose to become Time magazine's top editor and later returned to Vienna as the United States ambassador, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter Mandy. Mr. 
 ANDREADIS--John T. On February 24, 2005. In loving memory. Funeral services Monday, 11AM, Holy Trinity Cathedral, 319 E. 74 St, NYC. ANDREADIS -- John. We mourn the passing of our friend and extend our condolences to his wife Barbara and children John and Eleni. Barry and Marisa Ten
 BALLIN--Mark, 58, died suddenly on Wednesday February 23, 2005. His loving wife Paulette, daughter Jennifer, sister Toby, brother Joseph and mother Rosella survive him. A travel agent living with his family in Margate, FL, Ballin was born in Rockville Centre, NY. The family requests that in
 BEARE--Gene Kerwin. Of Saint Louis, MO, died Tuesday, February 15, 2005. He was 89. Born in Chester, IL., he graduated from Washington University with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering in 1937 and earned his Master's degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration in 1939.
 BEYER--Eugene E., Jr. Former executive vice president and general counsel of the RCA Corporation, died at his home in New York City on February 14, 2005, after a long illness. He was 84. Mr. Beyer joined RCA in 1947 as a tax attorney and was elected general counsel in 1978. Before joining R
 BINDLER--Norman, on February 17. Service at Green - Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY on February 28 at 1:30 PM. He will be loved and remembered always. For information, please call Frank E. Campbell (the funeral chapel), 212-288-3500.       
 BRODSKY--Irwin L. ''Irv'', on February 25, 2005, of Hartsdale, NY. Mr. Brodsky was born in Ellenville, NY on December 30, 1933 the son of Harry and Kate (Krilow) Brodsky. He was a 1951 graduate of Ellenville H.S. and a 1955 graduate of Penn State University, School of Journalism, where he w
 FRIEDMAN--Rabbi Morris S. Temple Hillel of North Woodmere mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved rabbi emeritus. His 33 years of leadership and his life long love of Israel created a legacy that will continue to enrich our lives. May the Almighty comfort his family amongst t
 FURMAN--Robert J. On February 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Joan Pietrucha Furman. Devoted father of Holly and Christie. Loving brother of Marilyn Furman O'Donnell and his twin, Richard E. Donations may be made to his fund at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Pediatric Fund, POB 27106, 
 GILLESPIE--Alfred. Our dear friend, Al, died on February 12 from cancer. He was 80. He was the author of the 1977 novel, ''Gilliam Unbuttoned'' and of numerous short stories and articles. He was born in Brooklyn, N.Y., on May 19, 1924. From the early 1960s onward, his articles and stories a
 GRANT--Nelson A. September 27, 1906, to February 25, 2005. Joins his wife Anne (his beloved ''Hus''). Devoted father of Hedy, Peter, and the late Louise. Loving grandfather of Sebastian, Rachel and Elizabeth. The grandest kibitzer of them all. Memorial service Sunday, March 6, 1:30 pm, East
 GREENE--Joseph M. Of Greensboro, NC and Jamaica Estates, NY passed away February 2, 2005 at age 74. He is survived by his wife of 45 years, June, his sons Andrew, Jeffrey and Frederic, and grandchildren Jacob & Julia. We will miss him.       
 KISSIN--Benjamin, M.D. We mourn the loss of our longtime friend and colleague. He will be sorely missed. Doris and Nathan Kreeger       
 KLEPPER--S. Lester. Passed away February 24 at his home on E. 90 St. in Manhattan. He was a member of the Board of New York State Restaurant Association. Of counsel to the law firm Dornbush Mensch Mandelstam & Schaeffer. He was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Restaurant Asso
 LAWRENCE--Edward. Age 88, died February 20th, in his home in NYC after a long illness. He received during this time loving care from his daughter Linda. Ed taught in the NYC school system for 35 years. He was a devoted husband to the late Eileen and a close friend to Isabella Lee. He was th
 MITCHELL--John D., Ed.D., 87, of Key West, FL., New York City and Bryn Athyn, PA. on February 21, 2005. President and Co-Founder of The Institute for Advanced Studies in the Theatre Arts (IASTA). Survived by his wife Miriam (Mimi), his sons John Daniel and Lorenzo, his daughter Barbarina an
 OCKRIN--John, 88, of Ithaca but forever of New York, the city he loved, died February 21, 2005 predeceased by his wife Olga. Lifelong learner, lover of books, photographer of life in the city, compassionate father who gave his children a sense of possibility. Survived by daughter Diana Ozol
 RUSSELL--David Sr., 95, died peacefully in his sleep at home on February 23, 2005. He was born in Manhattan December 5, 1909, eldest son of John Winter and Emma Sargent (Russell) Russell. David Russell was pre-deceased by his first wife Marjorie (Stone) Russell, four brothers and two sister
 STRAUSS--Sigmund. Died on February 24, 2005 at the age of 99. Resided in Erie, PA, Chicago, Harrison, NY and Stamford, CT. He was the beloved husband of Zelda Marks, loving father of Patricia Spencer and Anita Kraus, adoring grandfather and great-grandfather of Brian Kraus, Lisa and John Sp
 Peter Palazzo, an editorial art director who redesigned The New York Herald Tribune in 1963 and helped start a genre that he called journalistic design, died on Jan. 30 in Glens Falls, N.Y. He would have been 79 on Feb. 2. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Danielle. In 19
 Jef Raskin, a computer technology pioneer who started the team that created the Macintosh computer, died Saturday at his home in Pacifica, Calif., at age 61. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Linda Blum. Mr. Raskin, who named the Macintosh after his favorite apple but 
 FRIEDMAN--Rabbi Morris S. Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman LLP mourns the passing of the esteemed Rabbi Morris Friedman, the father of David M. Friedman, a senior partner in the firm. We extend our deepest condolences to David and his family and to all who were touched and enriched throu
 GRUNWALD--Henry A. Services Tuesday, March 1st, 10 am, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65th Street. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the International Rescue Committee, 122 E. 42 St, NY, NY 10168; or the Lighthouse International, 111 E. 59 St, NY, NY 10022.   
 GUTTAG--Irwin ''Gus.'' 89, of Delray Beach, FL, and NYC, passed away Saturday, Februry 26, 2005. Formerly a member of the Board of Directors of the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board of Options, at the time of his death Mr. Guttag was a partner of Men
 KISSIN -- Benjamin, M.D., 1917-2005, Professor Emeritus at Downstate Medical School, died on February 25th. Dr. Kissin pioneered an innovative program for alcohol and drug addiction. His many faceted program ran from education to medical and psychological therapy. Dr. Kissin had a national 
 LAWRENCE--Edward. Age 88, died February 20th, in his home in NYC after a long illness. He received during this time loving care from his daughter Linda. Ed taught in the NYC school system for 35 years. He was a devoted husband to the late Eileen and a close friend to Isabella Lee. He was th
 PAUKER--Lewis. 58, on February 25. Loving husband, father, son and brother, he is survived by his devoted and caring wife Judith, sons Benjamin and Edward, mother Norma Rosenthal, sister Genette Lieb, and many adoring cousins, nieces, nephews and friends. He loved and admired his father Edw
 SALGO--Nicolas M. 90, died on Saturday, February 26, in Florida. He is survived by his wife Josseline, his son and daughter-in-law Miklos and Roxann Salgo, and their son Seth and his daughter Christina Salgo, and her sons Daniel and Peter Neville. A memorial service will be held at the Fran
 SPARROW--Sidney G. He was a prominent trial attorney for more than 60 years; he was the assinged attorney in the nationally publicized case of the murder of Kitty Genovese, by Winston Mosley. The father of longtime law partner Robert E. Sparrow, of Judge Joyce Sparrow and Denise Sparrow. Be
 Peter Benenson, a British lawyer whose outrage over the imprisonment of two Portuguese students for drinking a toast to liberty spawned the human rights organization Amnesty International in 1961, died Friday in a hospital in Oxford, England. He was 83. The cause was pneumonia, said
