 Dr. George H. Hitchings, who won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1988 for pharmaceutical research that led to the creation of drugs to treat leukemia, gout, malaria and disorders of the human immunity system and that eventually made organ transplants possible, died on Friday morning at his h
 Dr. Rachmiel Levine, whose experiments on how insulin increases the body's use of blood sugars overturned conventional scientific belief and set new courses for diabetes research, died on Feb. 22 in Faulkner Hospital in Boston. He was 87 and lived in Newton, Mass. For 13 years, Dr. 
 Harvey C. Russell Jr., a retired Pepsico executive who was the first black man to become a vice president at a major American corporation, died on Feb. 20 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 years old and had homes in Crestwood, N.Y., and Martha's Vineyard, Mass. The
 ADELMAN-Milton H., M.D. Died February 26, 1998. He was the cherished father of Samuel, grandfather of David and devoted husband of his late wife Sylvia. He is survived by his sister Lee, her husband Dr. Barnett A. Greene, nephew Dr. Stephen A. Rosenthal and wife Marilyn, nephew Dr. William 
 ANYAEGBUNAM - Akolisa M., M.D. The entire Albert Einstein College of Medicine community mourns the untimely passing of our distinguished Professor of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Women's Health and Clinical Chairman of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Women's Health at Jacobi Medical Center. A dedi
 ANYAEGBUNAM-Dr. Akolisa M. On February 27, 1998. The staff of Jacobi Medical Center and North Central Bronx Hospital deeply mourn the tragic and untimely passing of our Chairman of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Women's Health. As a professional, he will be remembered as a much admired, respect
 BEATTIE-Edward J., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent corporation, Greater Metropolitan Health Systems, Inc., in acknowledging with deep sadness the passing of our beloved colleague and friend, Ted Beattie, M.D. Beth Israel welcomed Dr.
 BROFMAN-Henry. February 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Pearl for 64 years. Devoted father of Dr. Jerelyn Brofman and Faith Block. Loving grandfather of Debra Sue Goldberg and Heidi Levine, and great-grandfather of Barry Leonard Goldberg. Donations in his memory can be made to the Diabetes Ass
 CARRO-Leon J. Commander, USNR-Retired, age 103, of Brooklyn, NY, formerly of Revere, MA, on February 27, 1998. He graduated from Tufts University in 1917, left Harvard Law School to enlist in the US Navy in WW I, was commissioned an Ensign and served aboard the destroyer USS Paul Jones. Gra
 GARSON-Arthur. The Board of Directors and staff for Retired and Senior Volunteer Program, International deeply mourn the loss of our Founder and President, Arthur Garson. Arthur's many friends around the world join with us as we offer our sincere condolences and support to Arthur's wife and
 HAMMETT-John A. Retired Vice President of Douglas Gibbons, Holliday & Ives. On February 27, 1998, after a long illness. His many friends mourn the passing of this kind and generous man. Memorial mass 10 AM, Tuesday, March 3 at Saint John the Evangelist Church, 1st Ave. and 55 St., NY. Priva
 HIRSCHEL-Louis. Died February 25, 1998 in Sharon, CT, at the age of 83 years young. His brother Arthur Hirschel of Florida survives him. Additionally, his daughters Yvette and her husband David Smith of River Vale, N.J., Myrnaand Nat Yagoda of Fort Lee, N.J., and his son Marc and his wife P
 LEWIS-Edward. The passing of Ed Lewis is noted with sorrow. A longtime associate, good friend and able consultant in the real estate field. He will surely be missed. With deep sympathy, Sarah Korein       
 MILLER-Sidney M. Of Pleasantville, NY, and Orleans, MA. Died February 26 at home at age 78. He is survived by his loving wife of 56 years, Barbara; his sister, Dorothy Bogdanoff; his brother, Hyman; his four sons, Paul, Bruce, Eric and Adam; four devoted daughters-inlaw; as well as four gra
 NEUMANN-Gabor. On Feb. 18, 1998. Beloved husband of Verica. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday evening March 4, 1998 at 6 P.M. Donations in his name may be made to Supportive Care Program, Palliative Care Services, Memorial SloanKettering Canc
 PERERA-Charles Allen, M.D. With deepest sympathy we announce the death on January 27, 1998 of our respected colleague, renowned physician and scholar Charles Allen Perera M.D. Dr. Perera joined the staff of Columbia University Department of Ophthalmology, The Edward S. Harkness Eye Institut
 ROTHSTEIN - Joseph. Sutton Place Synagogue records with sorrow the loss of our member and benefactor on February 21. Our condolences to his devoted wife Gale and the bereaved family. Robert W. Berend, President       
 RUBIN-Irwin S. On February 27, 1998, age 67, at home in Bear Creek, PA. A founder and former President of Trion Industries, passionate golfer and traveler, lover of life. Beloved father, grandfather, brother and friend. He is survived by his children, Jeffrey and Susan Rubin and Lita and Al
 WEINRIB-Arnold W. On February 27, 1998. Of New York City and Saltaire, NY. Graduate of Princeton University Class of 1955. Husband of Mary Ellen Weinrib. Father of Theodore Briggs Weinrib. Brotherin-law of Catherine Donovan and several nieces and one nephew. Contributions in his memory may 
 BURT-Michael E., M.D., Ph.D. A memorial service will be held for Dr. Michael E. Burt on Monday, March 9th at 5 PM at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Rockefeller Research Laboratories, 430 East 67th Street. At the time of his death Dr. Burt was a thoracic surgeon and President of the
 Col. Russell P. (Red) Reeder, who accumulated six demerits in his first two hours as a cadet at West Point, but went on to become one of its most beloved graduates and a highly decorated commander in the D-Day invasion of Normandy, died last Sunday at Inova Mount Vernon Hospital in Alexandr
 Antonio Prohias, the cartoonist who drew ''Spy vs. Spy'' for Mad  magazine, died on Tuesday at Mercy Hospital in Miami. He was 77 and lived in Miami. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter Marta Pizarro. From January 1961 until his retirement in 1990, Mr. Prohias presi
 Dr. Samuel A. Corson, who spent years using dogs to conduct valuable but arcane biophysical research only to have his career upstaged by his own laboratory subjects, died on Jan. 27 at the home of a daughter in Granger, Ind. He was 88 and known as the father of pet-assisted therapy.        
 Dr. George H. Hitchings, who won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1988 for pharmaceutical research that led to the creation of drugs to treat leukemia, gout, malaria and disorders of the human immunity system and that eventually made organ transplants possible, died on Friday at his home in C
 GARVEY-John P., 71, New York City, died February 27, 1998, emphysema. USNR, 1944-1946, gradate of Yale University, 1952, BA. Survived by his children, John P., Jr., Lee (Lili) G. Carmel, Nathalie (Mimi) G. Mascolo, six grandchildren, and his sister, Natalie Scott Martin. Service will be pri
 LOFTUS-Thomas P. On February 28, 1998. Beloved husband of Beth. Devoted father of Patrick, Martin, Gary, Kathaleen Mercer, Thomas, Jr., Sean, Carol Pedersen, Lynn Elliott, and Elizabeth. Dearest grandfather of 15. Brother of William, Helen Cerjan and Geraldine Deighan. Friends may call at F
 LOWRY-Philip Holt. On February 28, 1998, at home in McLean, VA. He is survived by his daughters Georgia Harmony Lowry Orphan of Vienna, VA, and Marion Holt Lowry of Los Angeles, and his sister Marion L. Pennell of Washington Depot, CT. Services and interment will be private. Memorial contri
 NEWMAN-Sydney. Of Brooklyn and Delray Beach, FL. On February 24, 1998. Beloved husband of Shirley, loving father of Roger, cherished grandfather of Peter and Beth. He will be sorely missed.       
 WALLICK-Melvin. Died February 28, 1998, at 68 years. Dearest husband and best friend of Gloria. Devoted father of Michael (Gayle) Wallick, Claire (Kai) Moy, Larry Wallick and Carolyn Horn, Jim (Cathy) Wallick. Proud grandpa of Brian, Carrie, Jesse, Karina and Daniel. Dearest brother of Ruth
 Ramchandran Jaikumar, a professor at the Harvard Business School who specialized in computer-aided manufacturing, died on Feb. 10 in Quito, Ecuador. The cause was a heart attack suffered while mountain climbing, the school said. He was 53. Dr. Jaikumar focused on the study o
 Theodore W. Schultz, an economist at the University of Chicago whose research on agriculture and education was honored with a Nobel Memorial Prize in 1979, died Thursday at a nursing home in Evanston, Ill. The cause of death was an infection that did not respond to treatment, his fa
 Todd Duncan, the baritone who created the role of Porgy in Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess'' and was the first black singer to join the New York City Opera, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 95. Mr. Duncan, whose stage credits beyond Porgy include the Lord's General in 
 Tully Filmus, a realist painter and portraitist, died on Wednesday at his home in Fern Hill, Mass. He was 94. Mr. Filmus was born in Ataki, a region of Bessarabia, which is now part of Moldova, in 1903 and came to  the United States with his parents in 1913. They lived in Philadelph
 Albert Lippert, a once pudgy garment executive who stumbled on a diet program that made him both svelte and rich, died on Saturday during a business trip to South Africa. He was 72 and a founder of Weight Watchers. Friends said the cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, which he suffered 
 Henry Steele Commager, one of the nation's most distinguished historians and teachers, a prolific author, editor and essayist, and an eloquent defender of the Constitution, died yesterday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 95. For decades, the name Henry Steele Commager was synony
 John L. Bissell, an American businessman who ran a handloomed-textile export business in India for more than 30 years, died yesterday in New Delhi. He was 66 and lived in New Delhi. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, according to his cousin, Hector Prud'homme. Mr. Bissell was born
 ADELMAN-Milton H., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the loss of their longtime colleague and friend. Dr. Adelman served the institution for over forty-five years, distinguished himself as an outstanding clinician and devoted teacher. A conscientious mentor who touched the liv
 ANYAEGBUNAM-Dr. Akolisa M. On February 27, 1998. The staff of Jacobi Medical Center and North Central Bronx Hospital deeply mourn the tragic and untimely passing of our Chairman of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Women's Health. As a professional, he will be remembered as a much admired, respect
 BEATTIE-Edward J., M.D. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and Staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note with great sorrow the death of their dear colleague and friend, Dr. Edward J. Beattie. Dr. Beattie joined the staff of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases as an
 BOYD-William T.P. Sr., in Plymouth, on March 1st, age 87. Beloved husband of the late Emily (Quartuccio) Boyd. Dear father of Richard B. Boyd of Kensington, MD., William T.P. Boyd Jr. of Duxbury, MA., Lawrence Boyd of Brooklyn, NY, Mary Elizabeth Boyd of Bethesda, MD and Barbara Warren of H
 CARRELL-Russell. The Board of Managers of East Side House Settlement expresses its deep sympathy at the death of Mr. Russell Carrell. As long-time manager of the Winter Antiques Show until his retirement, Mr. Carrell was instrumental to the Show's success. We are grateful for his many contr
 DUNCAN-Todd. New York City Opera mourns the passing of our colleague Todd Duncan. Best remembered as the creator of the role of Porgy in Gershwin's Porgy and Bess, he also sang Escamillo and Rigoletto with the City Opera. He was a pioneer in his field and an inspiration to generations of yo
 HART-John Daly. Died February 28 at age 51 after a brief battle with cancer. He is survived by his wife, Molly Butler Hart, children, Ted, Brian and Colin, mother, Ann Montgomery Hart, brother, Peter and sister, Deborah Hart Zitner. Jack was a loving uncle to Lauren, Jennifer and Jeremy Zit
 LEVINE-Nathan. Died peacefully at his home March 1. Beloved husband of the late Ide Gruber Levine and devoted father of Ellen, Mada Liebman, Dori Brenner, Burt Liebman and Anne Koedt, grandfather of Sara and Dan Liebman. In lieu of flowers donations to West Side Federation for Senior Housin
 LIPPERT-Albert. We note with sorrow the sudden passing of a Trustee whose personal involvement and philanthropic generosity reflected a selfless devotion to North Shore and the people it serves. Mr. Lippert's business acumen was respected by his fellow Trustees, as well as officials within 
 LOFTUS-Thomas P. The residents of 1199 Park Avenue mourn the passing of our long-time neighbor and Board member. His genial personality and wise counsel will be sorely missed. To his wife Beth and all his loved ones, we offer our sincere condolences. Park Hill Tenants Corp.       
 MC NEILLY-Henry Branham, Sr. Town of Newburgh, NY, formerly of Southold, L.I. He was the President of Micron Clean Uniform Service, Inc. and a resident of the area since 1960. He died Monday, March 2nd, at St. Lukes Hospital, Newburgh, NY. He was sixty-one. The son of the late Charles Mc Ne
 SHULMAN-Max. The Bialystoker Synagogue family mourns the passing of the beloved father of its devoted President, Hon. Martin Shulman. Max Shulman dedicated himself to the values of family, religious inspiration and avodas hashem. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the be
 WALLICK-Melvin. Died Feb. 28, 1998, at 68 years. Dearest husband and best friend of Gloria. Devoted father of Michael (Gayle) Wallick, Claire (Kai) Moy, Larry Wallick and Carolyn Horn, Jim (Cathy) Wallick. Proud grandpa of Brian, Carrie, Jesse, Karina and Daniel. Dearest brother of Ruth (Ed
 FREIBERG-Sam. 3/17/09-3/3/96. Sam Freiberg was a decent, honorable man who treated people with dignity and respect. 2 years after his death, we still mourn our loss but remain thankful for all the years he was with us. Loving Family and Friends       
 Cary Reich, a financial journalist and the author of a widely praised biography of Nelson A. Rockefeller, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York. He was 48, and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Reich, who was working on a second volume of the Rockefeller book, became
 Darcy O'Brien, who turned a Hollywood childhood into award-winning fiction, taught literature at two universities and became the best-selling author of several ''true-crime'' books, died on Monday at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 59. The cause was a heart attack, a spokesman for h
 Harlan H. Hatcher, who as the eighth president of the University of Michigan guided the institution through a time of growth that lifted it into the ranks of the nation's elite research universities, died on Wednesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 99. Serving as president o
 ANYAEGBUNAM - Akolisa M., M.D. The Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Women's Health of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center is mourning the untimely passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Dr. Akolisa Anyaegbunam. ''Dr. Akolisa'' or ''Aki'', as he w
 D'URSO-David Francis, March 3, 1998. Beloved husband of Michelle. Loving father of Michaela. Loving son of Florence and the late Camillo D'Urso. Devoted brother of Mark, Donna and Lisa. He was a graduate of Iona Grammar, Prep and College, London School of Economics and Carnegie Institute. H
 FLOYD-J.A. (Joe) The Board of Directors and Staff of Christie's International, PLC, are deeply saddended by the loss of J.A. Floyd, former Chairman, friend and colleague who served the company with distinction for forty-five years. Joe played a pioneering role in Christie's North American o
 HART-John Daly. Died February 28 at age 51 after a brief battle with cancer. He is survived by his wife, Molly Butler Hart, children, Ted, Brian and Colin, mother, Ann Montgomery Hart, brother, Peter and sister, Deborah Hart Zitner. Jack was a loving uncle to Lauren, Jennifer and Jeremy Zit
 HEYMAN-Isidore. Cherished husband of Yetta and loving father of Ellen Rachich and Barry Heyman, father-in-law of Ellen Heyman and Milian Rachich, and zaidy of Andrew, Marni, Adam, Danielle and Ethan. A graduate of NYU Law School. He successfully practiced law for 68 years. Graveside service
 LEHRMAN-Howard Z. 75, of Fairfield, CT., died March 2, 1998 after a brief illness. He was the son of the late Dr. Philip R. Lehrman and Wanda Lehrman. Survived by his son Philip Charles Lehrman of Stamford, CT, his sister Lynne Lehrman Weiner of White Plains, NY, a nephew Meyer Weiner and t
 LEVY-Walter. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Walter Levy, a generous and ardent supporter of UJA-Federation. He was a dedicated leader and cherished friend of the Long Island Jewish community who served as Chair of our Rockville 
 MCNEILLY SR-Henry Branham. Of the Town of Newburgh and Southold, Long Island, who was the President of Micron Clean Uniform Service Incorporated of Newburgh, died Monday, March 2, 1998, at St. Lukes Hospital, Newburgh. He was 61. Survivors include his wife Barbara Ranges McNeilly at home, s
 REICH-Cary. On March 3rd. Beloved husband of the late Karen Eisenstadt. Son of Etta and the late Marvin. Father of Jeremy. Brother of Michael and Wayne. Services Thursday 12:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations can be made in Cary's name to Memorial Sloan Ketterin
 SHAFER - Frederick Q. The trustees, faculty, administration, alumni/AE of Bard College mourn the passing of Frederick Quentin Shafer '36, former chaplain of the college and Bernard Iddings Bell Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Religion. His life and work were closely bound together with
 SOBEL-Rabbi Pesach. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He served as educator in congregations in Cincinnati, OH and Spring Valley, NY. At the time of his death he was a teacher at the Prozdor of Boston Hebrew College and Rabbi of the South Area Solomon Schechter Day
 Daniel J. Crowley, an anthropologist who loved parties so much that he devoted his life to attending carnivals, festivals and other folk celebrations in every corner of the globe, died on Feb. 24 while in Oruro, Bolivia, for a Mardi Gras carnival. He was 76 and had been professor of
 Dr. Edward James Beattie, a leading chest surgeon, lung cancer specialist and medical educator who was long affiliated with Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Beth Israel Medical Center, died last Friday at Beth Israel. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was maligna
 Fred W. Friendly, the former CBS News executive who was a towering  figure in the evolution of news coverage on television, died Tuesday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 82. As a CBS News producer, Mr. Friendly and his longtime partner, Edward R. Murrow, vir
 Gregoris Staktopoulos, a Greek journalist who spent a decade in prison in connection with the murder of George Polk, the distinguished CBS news correspondent, in northern Greece in 1948, died on Saturday while being taken to the Evangelismos Hospital in Athens. He was 88 and had lived in At
 Harry Stanley, a vaudevillian turned lecturer who was such a subtle master of philolillogical orotundity and frammatical linguistation that when he got wound up it took a while before it became apparent that nobody had the foggiest idea what he was talking about, died on Feb. 15 at the Acto
 Jack Micheline, a Beat poet who wrote about the downtrodden using the rhythms and sounds of street speech, died on Friday on a commuter train leaving San Francisco. He was 68 and, friends said, lived near poverty in a San Francisco hotel. He had suffered from diabetes for years and 
 Dr. Mark Dexter Hollis, a public health official who raised the alarm about air and water pollution nearly 50 years ago and led efforts against malaria as chief of a precursor of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, died on Feb. 24 at the Lakeland Regional Medical Center in Lakel
 CASEY-Thomas F. of Larchmont, NY, on March 4, 1998. Beloved husband of Terry, devoted father of Andrea O'Neill and Christina Webers of Larchmont, loving father-in-law of Tim O'Neill and Frank Webers, loving grandfather of Caroline O'Neill, April, May, June, Frank and Caitlin Webers. Also su
 D'URSO-David Francis. On March 3, 1998. The Boards of Calvary Hospital and Calvary Fund and the Administration of the Hospital express sorrow on the death of the son of their esteemed Fund Director, benefactor and friend, Florence D'Urso. To the entire family, we extend deepest sympathies. 
 FRIENDLY-Fred W. 82. Died March 3, 1998. Beloved and cherished husband of Ruth W. Friendly; devoted father of Andrew, Lisa, David, Jon, Michael and Richard; proud grandfather of Noah, Christopher, Emily, James, Ramona, Alice, Sandor, Hannah, Madeleine and Andrew. Funeral service Fri,. March
 GIFFORD-Samuel A. On March 5, 1998, in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Harriette. Devoted father of Gail and Stephen Rudin. Adored grandfather of Deborah and Stephen Verp, Kenneth Rudin, and the late Andrew Rudin. Cherished great-grandfather of Alison Verp. A longtime leader in the paper 
 GOLDSTEIN-Bernard H. Age 90, of Port Washington, Long Island, March 4, 1998. Beloved husband of Edith I. (nee Spivack). Devoted father of Rita G. Christopher and Amy G. Bass. Father-in-law of Geoffrey A. Bass and the late Robert C. Christopher. Adoring grandfather of Alistair D. and Gordon 
 GREGORY-James, 77. On Feb. 4, 1998. Broadway musical theater coach and composer. He will be missed by his family and many devoted students. A memorial will be held later this spring.       
 JACKSON-Alexander. The Fresh Air Fund mourns the loss of its beloved member of the Board of Directors Alexander Jackson. Sandy was a dedicated Board member for over twenty years. As our Treasurer, he worked tirelessly on behalf of our Fresh Air children. He was admired for his leadership, s
 JACOBY-Mark J. With the sudden passing of Mark Jacoby, the insurance industry, City College, UJA Federation and the Jacoby-Levick families have lost an invaluable supporter, friend and patriarch. A life-time member of the Million Dollar Roundtable, his contributions will long be remembered 
 MULLER-EBERHARD-Hans J. One of the world's leading molecular immunologists, died March 3, 1998. Director of the Institute of Molecular Medicine for the Prevention of Human Diseases at the University of Texas-Houston, his research contribution dominated an era in immunology and biomedical re
 PLANT-Richard, Dr. died at his home in Greenwich Village on March 3, 1998 at age of 87. Dr. Plant was a prominent academic and scholar of the Holocaust and the author of ''The Pink Triangle, The Nazi War Against Homosexuals''. He is survived by his close friend and companion, Michael Sasse.
 WARRACK-James T. The Department of Psychiatry at Long Island College Hospital mourns the sudden passing of Mr. James T. Warrack, C.S.W., CASAC, Clinical Director of our Duffield Street Alcoholism Treatment Program in downtown Brooklyn. Mr. Warrack was a distinguished colleague, friend, ment
 Garner Edward Shriver, a former Republican Congressman from south-central Kansas, died on Sunday at Via Christi-St. Francis Hospital in Wichita, Kan. A resident of Wichita, he was 85. Mr. Shriver served eight terms in the House of Representatives, from 1961 through 1975. He was defe
 Dr. Hans J. Muller-Eberhard, an immunologist who made crucial discoveries about the workings of the body's immune system, died on Tuesday at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 70 and lived in Houston. The cause was cancer, a university official s
 CURRY-Philip J., Jr. Of Bristol, RI. Formerly of New Canaan, CT. On Friday, March 6, 1998. Survived by his wife Maureen Cohalan Curry; six sons, Philip of Easton, Conn., Michael of Barrington, R.I., Christopher of Orlando, FL., Sean of Boston, MA., Edward of New York City, and David of Char
 FRIENDLY-Fred W. My condolences to David F. on the loss of his great Dad. David List, Sydney Australia       
 GIFFORD-Samuel A. On March 5, 1998, in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Harriette. Devoted father of Gail and Stephen Rudin. Adored grandfather of Deborah and Stephen Verp, Kenneth Rudin, and the late Andrew Rudin. Cherished great-grandfather of Alison Verp. A longtime leader in the paper 
 JACKSON-Alexander. Of East Hampton, NY, of a stroke on March 5, 1998. Beloved brother of Richard M. Jackson (Lloyd Harbor, NY) and Joan Jackson Forte (Marion, MA and Naples, FL) and the late Katharine Jackson Bass and Danforth Jackson. Beloved uncle of 11 nieces and nephews and 19 great-nie
 KASS-Dr. Morton. All of us at the East Midwood Jewish Center mourn the passing of the brother of our distinguished and beloved rabbi, Dr. Alvin Kass. Rabbi Kass' brother was an eminent physician in Paterson, New Jersey, who dispensed his medical skills with humaneness and spiritual sensitiv
 MORRISON-Donald Alan, 66, of Milford, Connecticut. Beloved son of Henry Morrison and the late Betty Sejeck Morrison. Mr. Morrison was a resident of Moodus, Connecticut, for 20 years before moving to Milford a year ago. He was a U.S. Navy Veteran of the Korean Conflict. Mr. Morrison was the 
 MULLER-EBERHARD-Hans J. One of the world's leading molecular immunologists, died March 3, 1998. Director of the Institute of Molecular Medicine for the Prevention of Human Diseases at the University of Texas-Houston, his research contribution dominated an era in immunology and biomedical re
 SUSSMAN-Abraham. On March 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Pearl; loving father of Eleanor and Norman; adoring grandfather of Carol, Robert, Rebecca and Zachary; great-grandfather of Shlomi, Yasmin and Sarah. He will always be remembered by his family. Service on Sunday, at 9:45 A.M., at ''The R
 ZUPA-Vito M. On March 6, 1998. Devoted father of Victor. Loving father-in-law of Mary. Dear grandfather of Evelyn and Paul Shyposh, Ann and Mary Beth. Also surviving are many family members and his longtime beloved friend Janina Haba. Mass of Christian Burial was celebrated today at 10 A.M.
 Richard F. Shepard, a retired New York Times writer who was also a former cultural news editor of The Times and was known for his amiably down-to-earth manner, which included meeting friends at a Theater District cafe he called ''the Polish Tea Room,'' died last night at his home in Fresh M
 Bishop John Maury Allin, the 23rd presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, who was a pivotal supporter of Mississippi's effort to rebuild burned black churches in the 1960's but was an ardent critic of the ordination of women, died on Friday in Jackson, Miss. He was 77 and had been
 Eric M. Breindel, the former editorial page editor for The New York Post and the conservative moderator of a weekly news show on public affairs on the Fox News Channel,  died yesterday afternoon. He was 42. Mr. Breindel, a lifelong resident of New York City, died at New York Hospita
 BUTTI-Lewis C. Of Douglaston on March 6, 1998. Retired school administrator and a veteran of World War II. Mr. Butti was a principal and Director of Instruction in District 28 in Forest Hills and he ismentioned in ''Who's Who in the East''. He leaves his wife Mary, two children, Lawrence an
 COHEN-Isadore H. Died on February 27, at age 90. He is survived by his sons James of Rhinebeck, NY, John of Shelburne Falls, MA, and David of Chelsea, MI; by his daughters-in-law Linda Putnam and Magdalene Lampert, his grandchildren Lisa and Sarah Cohen, Amy, Rachel and Eli Putnam, his grea
 CURRY-Philip J., Jr. Of Bristol, RI. Formerly of New Canaan, CT. On Friday, March 6, 1998. Survived by his wife Maureen Cohalan Curry; six sons, Philip of Easton, Conn., Michael of Barrington, R.I., Christopher of Orlando, FL., Sean of Boston, MA., Edward of New York City, and David of Char
 GARVEY-John P., 71, New York City, died February 27, 1998, emphysema. USNR, 1944-1946, graduate of Yale University, 1952, BA. Survived by his children, John P., Jr., Lee (Lili) G. Carmel, Nathalie (Mimi) G. Mascolo, six grandchildren, and his sister, Natalie Scott Martin. Service will be pr
 GIFFORD-Samuel A. On March 5, 1998, in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Harriette. Devoted father of Gail and Stephen Rudin. Adored grandfather of Deborah and Stephen Verp, Kenneth Rudin, and the late Andrew Rudin. Cherished great-grandfather of Alison Verp. A longtime leader in the paper 
 HUPPER-Joel H. On February 28, 1998. Devoted husband of the late Joan T. Hupper. Loving father of Anne and David. IBM retiree. Computer consultant and teacher and music critic. Survived by his 2 children and 3 grandchildren. Services Mar. 10, 2PM, Prestyberian Church, New Canaan, Connecticu
 METCALF-Thomas Newell, Jr, 75, of South Dartmouth, Massachusetts, died Thursday, March 5, 1998, in Beaufort Memorial Hospital, Beaufort, South Carolina. Mr. Metcalf was born June 10, 1922, in Brookline, Massachusetts to the late Thomas Newell Metcalf and Elizabeth Paine Metcalf. He was a 19
 MULLER-EBERHARD-Hans J. One of the world's leading molecular immunologists, died March 3, 1998. Director of the Institute of Molecular Medicine for the Prevention of Human Diseases at the University of Texas-Houston, his research contribution dominated an era in immunology and biomedical re
 SCHOLL-Robert Hargest. Of Philadelphia, PA., former Director of Public Relations for Standard Oil Company (NJ) died February 9, 1998 at the age of 97. He was born in Jersey City, NJ, graduated from Princeton University in 1922 and Columbia Law School in 1925. He joined the law firm of Kello
 SHAYKIN-Rose. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Rose Shaykin, beloved mother of Leonard Shaykin, a founding Board member of NJOP. His support of NJOP has played a crucial role in NJOP's efforts to assure a Jewish future for American Jewry. Condolences to the family.
 SILVERBERG-Joseph O. March 2, 1998. In his 86th year. Pre-deceased by his beloved wife Ann. Survived by his devoted daughter Ellen. A fiercely independent man who fought the good fight. He was a hero to all who knew him. He will be sorely missed. Interment at New Montefiore Cemetery.       
 SUSSMAN-Abraham. On March 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Pearl; loving father of Eleanor and Norman; adoring grandfather of Carol, Robert, Rebecca and Zachary; great-grandfather of Shlomi, Yasmin and Sarah. He will always be remembered by his family. Service on Sunday, at 9:45 A.M., at ''The R
 BURT-Michael E., M.D., Ph.D. A memorial service will be held for Dr. Michael E. Burt on Monday, March 9th at 5 PM at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Rockefeller Research Laboratories, 430 East 67th Street. At the time of his death Dr. Burt was a thoracic surgeon and President of the
 TOWNSEND-Robert Chase. A memorial service will be held for Robert C. Townsend on Tuesday March 17 at 11 AM at All Saints Church, 855 Middle Neck Rd., Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y. Mr. Townsend, who died on the island of Anguilla on January 12, 1998 had been a Senior Vice President of Americ
 Richard F. Shepard, a cigar-biting, storytelling, retired New York Times writer and former cultural news editor whose gentle wit and down-to-earth manner often masked an eclectic learning that embraced languages, literature, the theater from Yiddish to Broadway, and the neighborhoods of New
 Ronald Johnson, a visionary poet who wanted to take his God out of church and find Him, say, in the exploding light of dawn as it rose across the prairie of his native Kansas, died on Wednesday at his father's home in Topeka. He was 62. The cause was brain cancer, his  family said. 
 Bishop John Maury Allin, the 23d presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, who was a pivotal supporter of Mississippi's effort to rebuild burned black churches in the 1960's but was an ardent critic of the ordination of women, died on Friday in Jackson, Miss. He was 77 and lived in Jackson 
 BREINDEL-Eric Marc. Loving son of Joseph and Sonia. Dearest brother of Monique Breindel and Jonathan Oberman. Most tender and caring uncle of Hannah, Naomi and Sarah Rose. Service Monday, 11 AM, at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St and Madison Ave. BREINDEL-Eric. The America-Israel Fri
 HESSELMAN-Leo W. Retired partner Haskins & Sells, predecessor firm of Deloitte & Touche LLP, died at home February 13, 1998 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy, nee Kittell, five daughters Barbara Dodson, Judith Lawson, Linda Hesselman, Nicolys D'Agostino and Jean Bohr
 KHAZIN-Alexander. Unexpectedly passed away on March 6, 1998. Mr. Khazin was born on February 26, 1947, in St. Petersburg, Russia, but spent the last 20 years of his life in New York City where he was a successful entrepreneur working in international trade. Alexander will always be remember
 MELE-Peter A., M.D. Of Tenafly, NJ, a prominent Englewood, NJ, surgeon died on Friday, March 6, 1998, of heart failure after a prolonged illness. He was 69. Husband of Paola Maranesi Mele. Father of Paola De Vita, Michael, Peter A. Jr., and Christopher Mele, M.D. Brother of Frank M. Mele. G
 MORGULAS-David. 94, of Scarsdale, NY, died Friday at the Forrestal Nursing Center in Princeton, NJ. Born in Paterson, NJ, he was a lifelong area resident. He had graduated from New York University with a law degree in 1922. He helped found the M. Carl Levine, Morgulas, and Foreman law firm 
 PUTNAM-Carleton. Airline pioneer, executive and author, died March 5, 1998, at his home in Charlottesville, VA. He was 96. Memorial contributions may be made to The Theodore Roosevelt Association, P.O. Box 719, Oyster Bay, NY 11771 or The Fessenden School, West Newton, MA.       
 SHEPARD-Richard F. The Sholom Aleichem Memorial Foundation deeply mourns the passing of our member and devoted family friend. His sweetness and gentleness will be sorely missed. Sidney J. Gluck and Bel Kaufman       
 SILLECK-Sidney B. Jr. Of Scarsdale, NY, on March 6, 1998, at the age of 83. Loving husband of Katherine Wallace. Also survived by his four children: Katherine, Bayley, and Thomas of NYC and Gordon of Irvington, NY; three grandchildren, Sean, Siri, and Elizabeth; and three great-grandchildre
 YORIO-William M. On March 7, 1998, of Ridge, formerly of Manhasset. Beloved husband of Lucille. Loving father of William T. and the late Anthony M. Also survived by his daughter-in-law Jacqueline and three grandchildren Dana, Regina and Paul. Brother of Michael, Micheline, Anne, Nancy and Y
 Sydney Gruson, a former hotel bellboy who became a foreign correspondent, the foreign editor of The New York Times and then a corporate executive of The Times Company, died yesterday evening at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was not immediately cl
 Waldo Howland, a yacht builder and preservationist, died Feb. 26 at his home in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 89. After graduating from Harvard in 1930, Mr. Howland went to work at the Concordia Company of Padanaram, Mass. He rose to a leadership position and ran the company until his ret
 Edward Tatnall Canby, a choral director, teacher and writer whose conducting specialty was Renaissance and Baroque music but whose wide interests led him to work as a folklorist and as an advocate of electronic music, died on Feb. 21 at his home in Cornwall, Conn. He was 85 and also had a h
 Eric M. Breindel, the former editorial page editor for The New York Post and the conservative moderator of a weekly public affairs program on the Fox News Channel, died Saturday afternoon. He was 42. Mr. Breindel, a lifelong resident of Manhattan, died at New York Hospital-Cornell M
 Norman E. Isaacs, a prominent newspaper editor and expert on press matters, died on Saturday in a residence for people with Alzheimer's disease in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 89 and formerly lived in Katonah, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Stephen. Born in 
 BREINDEL-Eric. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eric Breindel: brilliant commentator on current events, passionate attorney, renowned correspondent, and a charismatic champion of Jewish causes. His dedication to those who needed 
 CAMPBELL-George W. Of Lloyd Neck, New York, on March 8, 1998. Mr. Campbell was the former President and CEO of the George Campbell Corporations of Flushing, NY. Beloved husband of Valerie. Loving father of George III, Eric, Gregory, Colleen, Celeste and Amy. Cherished son of Elizabeth and t
 CIMINE-Philip Joseph on Sunday, March 8, in his sleep of natural causes. Devoted husband of Isabel. Beloved father of Mary Ellen of Tampa and Diane of Irvington, N.Y. Loving grandfather of Cara, Ian and Dana. Recipient of the Bronze Star Medal for service to his country during WWII, 1941-19
 CURRY-Philip J Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Philip J. Curry, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 D'AGUANNO-Anthony. Age 60, died in Scottsdale, Arizona, on March 7, 1998. He was born in Queens, New York. He was a retired Managing Director with Smith Barney. Survivors include his wife, Mary Louise; sons, Anthony, Louis and Joseph: mother, Elizabeth and 2 grandchildren. Funeral Services 
 EDWARDS-John T., Jr. Of Massapequa, NY, on March 9, 1998. Mr. Edwards was a 1955 graduate of Manhattan College and First Lieutenant in the USAF. He began his twenty-eight year career at NYNEX as an Electrical Engineer and progressed to a division level Executive in their corporate planning 
 HAVRAN-Morris. Congregation Orach Chaim deeply mourns the loss of our beloved senior member and daily and Sabbath congregant. A Holocaust survivor, his devotion and service to our Congregation will be eternally remembered and honored. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Sylvia, and
 ISAACS-Norman E. For all of the students, faculty and alumni who knew and respected Norman Isaacs, we note his death with sadness. As an outstanding newspaper editor, president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, and chairman of the National News Council, he was a leading figure i
 JACKSON-Pat H. Jr. Age 81. A retired state employee. Formerly of the Bronx. Residing at Northern Manor Nursing Home, Nanuet, NY. Passed Friday, March 6 after a prolonged illness. He was a WW II veteran stationed in the Pacific. Survived by his loving wife of 54 years Genevieve Carmen Jackso
 JEFFERSON-Floyd Wellman III, 44, of Oak Bend St., Orlando, died on March 6, 1998. A professional golfer, he was born in New York, New York and moved to Orlando in 1974. He was Episcopalian. He was a past member of the Walt Disney World Classic Country Club, Bay Hill Country Club, Shinnecock
 MACCHIA-John J., 84. Died March 9, 1998 in Fort Lauderdale, FL. He was born January 29, 1914 in Bronx, New York. Mr. Macchia attended St. John's College and Fordham Law School. He was admitted to the New York Bar in 1942 and enlisted in the US Army that same year. In 1950 he married Kathery
 MELE-Peter A. MD. The Medical Staff of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center is saddened by the passing of Dr. Peter A. Mele. Dr. Mele was a loyal member of the medical staff for over 30 years. Peter played a vital role in the Department of Surgery serving as director of the residency progr
 ROWSER-Bertin. With children and a stage Bertin made magic. We shall miss him. Died Thursday, March 5 at home in Buffalo. Shirley Ubell, Artistic Director Center,Modern Dance Education       
 SNYDER-Aaron Fred. Died on February 9, 1998 from natural causes. He was a member of the American and New York State Psychological Association. He was a retired psychologist and surviving is a sister Rita Glickman and Arnold Handman, a nephew.       
 TIEFFENBERG-Leon, 86, died March 8, 1998 at his apartment in Manhattan after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Josefina Rubinstein Tieffenberg; his daughter Magdalena Tieffenberg Tosteson of Boston and her husband Daniel Tosteson and their two children Joshua and Ingrid; and his so
 WEISS-Samuel A. Of Great Neck. Beloved husband of the late Melvina. Devoted father of Seth Weiss and Naomi DeMuth. Loving father-in-law of Roger DeMuth. Cherished grandfather of Adam and Aaron DeMuth. Devoted uncle. Services Wednesday 12 noon at Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Stati
 YORIO-William M. On March 7, 1998, of Ridge, formerly of Manhasset. Beloved husband of Lucille. Loving father of William T. and the late Anthony M. Also survived by his daughter-in-law Jacqueline and three grandchildren Dana, Regina and Paul. Brother of Michael, Micheline, Anne, Nancy and Y
 Arkady N. Shevchenko, who stunned the world two decades ago when he became the highest-ranking Soviet diplomat to defect to the United States, died on Feb. 28 in obscurity in his suburban home in Bethesda, Md. He was 67. Mr. Shevchenko's death was announced in a brief statement by h
 Lloyd Bridges, whose acting career spanned more than five decades and whose sons, Jeff and Beau, also became well-known actors, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. Although he had suffered from minor illnesses in the last year, he continued to work and had recently
 BERSON-Harold. It is with great sadness that we extend our condolences to our Partner and Friend, Barry Berson, his wife Roni, his mother Marion and his sister and brother-in-law Mindy and Sandy on the loss of their beloved husband and father. Harold Berson was a man of uncommon grace, wisd
 BRAUNSCHWEIG - Richard, 62. Died March 9, 1998, Greenport, NY. He will be greatly missed by his friends and family, especially his loving brother Robert, sister-inlaw Willi; niece Diana and nephews Julius and Marc; Aunts Muriel and Ruth; and his dear long time friend Frank Lawrence. Memoria
 EDWARDS-John T., Jr. Of Massapequa, NY, on March 9, 1998. Mr. Edwards was a 1955 graduate of Manhattan College and First Lieutenant in the USAF. He began his twenty-eight year career at NYNEX as an Electrical Engineer and progressed to a division level Executive in their corporate planning 
 FINNEGAN-Frank E. Jr. of Port Washington, Mar. 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Nuss). Loving father of Timothy, Michael and his wife Margaret, and Patrick. Cherished grandfather of Christopher, Daniel and Matthew. Dear brother of Elizabeth Frederick of Cincinnati, Ohio. Survived al
 JERNIGAN-Raymond. The Intimate Apparel Square Club members deeply mourn the loss and smile of Ray, our one-time Santa Claus for our children at the Rusk Institute. His personality and love will remain forever in our hearts. Barry Ross, President IASC       
 KASIN-Edwin, MD. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Society note with irreparable sorrow, the death of a much revered graduate and member. As a Training and Supervising Analyst, and a Faculty member, Dr. Kasin inspired generations
 KHAZIN-Alexander. Unexpectedly passed away on March 6, 1998. Mr. Khazin was born February 26, 1947, in St. Petersburg, Russia, but spent the last 20 years of his life in New York City where he was a successful entrepreneur working in international trade. Alexander will always be remember as
 KNAPP - George Leo, LTC, USAAFR, Ret. Of Bristol, CT died on March 8, 1998. Born in the Bronx on September 25, 1919, he served as a navigator during WWII & was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross among other citations. He is survived by his loving wife, Rosemary Shavel Knapp; his daughte
 MANCUSO-Alfred, 84. Of Tinton Falls, NJ, March 10, 1998. Husband of the late Beatrice. Beloved father of Richard and Ellen. He gave most of his life to the cause of world peace and human rights. Funeral service at The WordenHoidal Funeral Home, 60 E. Front Street, Red Bank, NJ, Thursday, Ma
 OWEN-Nathan. Formerly of Greenwich, Connecticut and Basin Harbor, Vermont, Mr. Owen died at home in Palm City, Florida on March 9, 1998. Devoted husband of Janet, beloved father of Patricia, David and Lorinda, and adoring grandfather of nine, great grandfather of one. Mr. Owen was the Found
 PASSARELLA-P. Francis, Colonel United States Army Retired. On Friday, March 6, 1998, of Arlington, Virginia. Beloved husband of 63 years to Marion S. Passarella; loving father of Patrick F. Passarella and Anthony Passarella. He is also survived by three grandchildren, two great grandchildre
 STIEGLITZ-Louis. Age 93, of Dallas, Texas. Formerly of Great Neck, New York, and Hallandale, FL. On March 10, 1998 in Dallas. Beloved husband of the late Selma (nee Weinstock). Devoted father of Francine of Lexington, MA., Warren of Englewood, N.J. and Heather Kupersztoch of Dallas, TX. Ado
 THOMAS-William S. On March 7th, 1998. Died peacefully in the presence of family, at age 85, at the Sherwood Oaks hospice unit in Wexford, PA. Mr. Thomas, who previously resided in Garden City, New York and Alachua, Florida, was a graduate and Trustee Emeritus of Dickinson College. Mr. Thoma
 TSE-Koong-Kai, of New York City passed away peacefully on Monday, March 9, 1998, at the age of 91. Born in China and educated at the University of Shanghai, K.K. Tse was hired in 1927 by C.V. Starr, founder of the American International companies, as an accountant in Shanghai. Over a 70-yea
 WALLDORF-Julian Mark. On March 10, 1998, beloved husband of Marion (nee Bernstein), loving father of Suzanne and Steven, father-in-law of Maryann, grandfather of Jenny and Karen Walldorf, Ann, Megan, and Nicholas Fountain, Charlotte and Jane Wiesenberg. A CPA for over 50 years, he was a for
 WILEY-John E. On March 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Ida L. Wiley. Father of Thomas Wiley and Lucinda Williams. Grandfather of Marcia, Kristen, Todd, Maxene, Edward and Bairn. Great-grandfather of James. Brother of Douglas, Gordon, David, Alan Wiley and the late ''Bud'' and Barbara. Memorial 
 ZARON-David. Age 76. Of Slingerlands, New York. On Sunday, March 8th, 1998. In Naples, Florida. Mr. Zaron was born in Brooklyn, NY, and has resided in the Capitol district for many years. He graduated from the Univ. of Michigan & received his Master's Degree in Public Administration from th
 Charles Edward Hall, the AIDS patient who fought in the Florida courts for the right to die with the help of a doctor,  died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Fla. He was 36. Mr. Hall had been bedridden for months from complications of H.I.V., which he contracted in a blood tr
 BOUDREAU - Laurence Allan Giles. Of Ridgefield, CT formerly of Greenwich Village, New York at the age of 62. Survived by his wife; Carol (nee Emerling) Boudreau. He was the son in law of the late Ernest and Helen Louise Emerling of Great Neck, New York, and Dayton, Ohio. A memorial mass of 
 COSTIKYAN-Granger. Count Costikyan died on March 10, 1998, in York, Maine at the age of 90. He made his home in York Harbor and Rancho Mirage, California. A 1929 graduate of Yale College, he was a life long banker, becoming President of First Bank System, Inc. in Minneapolis and a partner o
 DRATEL-Joseph. Beloved husband of Heidi. Devoted father of Louise, Patti, Billy and Joshua; devoted brother of the late Bella Mishaan. Adored grandfather of Daniel, Mark, Charles, Robert, Asher, Julia, Jonathan and Sidney. Died March 10, 1998 in Jupiter, Florida. He was a lawyer and CPA, an
 GIFFORD-Samuel A. When a human being is born the journey of life begins and our purpose for this life that the Almighty has granted us has been charted. Sam Gifford's life was a beacon to us all. His memory is a blessing to all who were touched by his guidance and grace. We mourn his passin
 GOLDSTEIN-Moe. Age 90, of New York, died Tuesday, March 10, 1998. He is survived by devoted wife Anna Goldstein.       
 ISRAEL-Rosa. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of London's Jewish community and dedicated Zionist, beloved sister of Romie (and Blanche) Shapiro, member, Board of Directors, of YU's Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law. Mr. and Mrs. Shapiro are longtime dev
 LEE-Henry T.S. On March 10, 1998, of Scarsdale, New York. Husband of Julia T., father of Josette and Stanley. Father-inlaw of Pentti Niiranen and Jeanie Lee. Grandfather of Jennifer and Jonathan Greechan. Family will receive friends at the Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Ave, Scarsdale,
 LEVACK-Meyer. We mourn the loss of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Jayne Winnig, Rabbi Evelyn Maltman, President       
 NOVACK-Saul. Faculty, friends, and students past and present of the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College, City Univerity of New York, mourn the death on March 4, at age 79, of the visionary teacher, scholar of musical structure, former chairman and later Dean of the Arts, who con
 OWEN-Nathan. Formerly of Greenwich, Connecticut and Basin Harbor, Vermont, Mr. Owen died at home in Palm City, Florida on March 9, 1998. Devoted husband of Janet, beloved father of Patricia, David and Lorinda, and adoring grandfather of nine, great grandfather of one. Mr. Owen was the Found
 RADIN-Alvin Jay Bert. On Tuesday, March 10, 1998, of Glen Ridge, husband of Doris, father of Roy, Robin and Andrew, grandfather of Katie and Eric. Menorah Chapels at Millburn, 2950 Vauxhall Rd, Union, NJ, Friday, March 13, 1998 at 11:30AM. Interment Beth Israel Cemetery, Woodbridge, NJ. In 
 SHEPARD-Richard F. The Workmen's Circle mourns a good friend and a gentleman who respected and supported our cultural Jewish traditions and programs. Condolences to his family and honor to his memory. Robert A. Kaplan, Exec. Director Mark Mlotek, President       
 THOMAS-William S. On March 7th, 1998. Died peacefully in the presence of family, at age 85, at the Sherwood Oaks hospice unit in Wexford, PA. Mr. Thomas, who previously resided in Garden City, New York and Alachua, Florida, was a graduate and Trustee Emeritus of Dickinson College. Mr. Thoma
 TSE-Koong-Kai, of New York City passed away peacefully Monday, March 9, 1998, at the age of 91. Born in China and educated at the University of Shanghai, K.K. Tse was hired in 1927 by C.V. Starr, founder of the American International companies, as an accountant in Shanghai. Over a 70-year c
 WALLDORF-Julian Mark. On March 10, 1998, beloved husband of Marion (nee Bernstein), loving father of Suzanne and Steven, father-in-law of Maryann, grandfather of Jenny and Karen Walldorf, Ann, Megan, and Nicholas Fountain, Charlotte and Jane Wiesenberg. A CPA for over 50 years, he was a for
 WILEY-John E. On March 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Ida L. Wiley. Father of Thomas Wiley and Lucinda Williams. Grandfather of Marcia, Kristen, Todd, Maxene, Edward and Bairn. Great-grandfather of James. Brother of Douglas, Gordon, David, Alan Wiley and the late ''Bud'' and Barbara. Memorial 
 Saul Novack, the former dean of arts and humanities at Queens College and a professor emeritus at the college's Aaron Copland School of Music, died on March 4 at New York Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Belle Harbor, N.Y. Ron Cannava, a spokesman for Queens College, said the cause 
 William F. Farah, whose men's apparel business was the object of one of the most bitter labor disputes in the history of the apparel industry, died Monday in a private nursing home in El Paso. He was 78. According to his son James, Mr. Farah had suffered a long illness. The 
 Jack Davies, a businessman turned winemaker who, with his wife, Jamie, transformed Schramsberg Vineyards in the Napa Valley of California into one of the country's pre-eminent producers of sparkling  wine, died on Tuesday at his home at the winery near Calistoga. He was 74. The caus
 Manuel Pineiro, the ruthless but urbane spymaster who for more than 30 years led Cuba's intelligence apparatus and directed its efforts to export revolution to the third world, died in a car crash in Havana early today, the Cuban state news agency Prensa Latina reported. He was 63. 
 Maynard A. Amerine, the elegant and erudite plant physiologist whose pioneering research helped revive the California wine industry after the repeal of Prohibition, died on Wednesday at his home in St. Helena, Calif. He was 87 and was widely acclaimed as the father of American wine.        
 BARANIK-Rudolf. Died March 6, 1998 in Santa Fe, N.M. The world is smaller without his presence. On rare occasions, a great artist is also a great man. Mr. Baranik is missed and revered. A memorial will be held at a later date.       
 BROWNELL-George R., 83. An international corporate attorney and lifelong resident of Westfield, NJ, died March 8, 1998. A graduate of Cornell Law School, Mr. Brownell was a partner of Mudge Rose Guthrie and Alexander, NYC until 1965. Thereafter he served as special counsel and Vice Presiden
 BUTGER-Milton. The Board of Trustees of YAI National Institute for People with Disabilities is greatly saddened by the passing of Milton Butger. As a distinguished member of our Board, he was a tireless and passionate advocate on behalf of people with disabilities. We extend our heartfelt s
 COSTIKYAN-Granger. Count Costikyan died on March 10, 1998, in York, Maine at the age of 90. He made his home in York Harbor and Rancho Mirage, California. A 1929 graduate of Yale College, he was a life long banker, becoming President of First Bank System, Inc. in Minneapolis and a partner o
 DeMATTEO-Paul Joseph. 76. Of New Port Richey, FL., died on Tuesday, March 10, in Hudson, FL. He was born in NYC and moved to New Port Richey from L.I., in 1983. He was a retired electronics technician with the Sperry Corporation of Lake Success, NY after forty years service and most recentl
 DRATEL-Joseph. Beloved husband of Heidi. Devoted father of Louise, Patti, Billy and Joshua; devoted brother of the late Bella Mishaan. Adored grandfather of Daniel, Mark, Charles, Robert, Asher, Julia, Jonathan and Sidney. Died March 10, 1998 in Jupiter, Florida. He was a lawyer and CPA, an
 HECHT-George. The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art mourns the death of George Hecht, inventor, manufacturing executive and philanthropist. A 1930 electrical engineering graduate, Mr. Hecht was a lifelong friend of the college and one of its most generous benefactors. As a
 KASIN-Edwin, M.D. The Institute for Contemporary Psychotherapy notes with great sadness the passing of one of our dearest and most treasured teachers. Although he has enriched our students with his knowledge and wisdom for the past twenty-five years, it is for his humanity and gentleness of
 MORGULAS-David. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family of the late David Morgulas, a founder of the law firm of M. Carl Levine, Morgulas and Foreman. Dave was a keen scholar and practitioner for more than 60 years. He truly loved the law. Judy and Edwin Efros       
 OWEN-Nathan. Formerly of Greenwich, Connecticut and Basin Harbor, Vermont, Mr. Owen died at home in Palm City, Florida on March 9, 1998. Devoted husband of Janet, beloved father of Patricia, David and Lorinda, and adoring grandfather of nine, great grandfather of one. Mr. Owen was the Found
 WOLMER-Dr. Ira. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Beth, daughter Danielle and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine, Ch. of the Board Robert P. Antler, Presiden
 Abe Ajay, an artist best known for his shallow, boxlike wall constructions and collages, died on Monday in a hospital near Bethel, Pa., where he lived. He was 78. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his wife, Betty Raymond. Mr. Ajay, the son of Syrian immigrants, worke
 CHAMBERLIN-Robert H., 93. Of Ghent, NY. Died Tuesday, March 10, 1998. Born in Dayton, OH. He was a graduate and devoted alumnus of Williams College. He was a longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY active in civic, church affairs and community theater groups and a retired manager of Brown Brothe
 COHEN-David C. The entire Nassau Association for the Help of Retarded Children family mourns the death of David C. Cohen. A lifemember of Nassau AHRC, he was a very generous benefactor and a strong advocate for protecting the rights of all individuals with mental retardation and other devel
 FISCHMAN-David S. March 12, 1998. In fond memory of David S. Fischman. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be missed.       
 GINSBERG-Benedict. The Jewish Education Service of North America mourns the passing of Benedict Ginsberg and extends its deepest sympathy to his daughter and our colleague, Judith Ginsberg, Executive Director of the Covenant Foundation, his wife, Adele, his son, Phillip, and the entire fami
 GOLDMAN-Sam. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club records with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Sam Goldman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Bea and family. Robert Roman, President GOLDMAN-Samuel. Beloved husband of Bea. Devoted father of Eileen a
 JEFFREYS-Dr. Leonard C., Jr. of Convent Station, NJ, formally of Livingston, NJ, on Thursday, March 12, 1998. Beloved father of Kristi L. Bristol of Middlesex, NJ and Timothy C. Jeffreys of Hoboken, NJ. Son of the late Mabel Crawford. Also survived by his three grandchildren, Jennifer, Stev
 KANTERMAN-Edgar Allen. Devoted and loving husband of Phyllis. Dear brother-in-law of Jerry Schwartz. Loving uncle of Anne Levitan and Fran Wheeler. Also survived by four great-nieces and nephews. He was a greatly admired dentist in Bayside, Queens, since 1949. Graveside services Sunday 11:3
 LITT-Michael William. On March 11, 1998, age 51. Survived by his mother Florence, sister Caren, brother Scott, and many friends and relatives who will greatly miss him. Visitation: Saturday, March 14 from 7-9PM, Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam and 76th St. Service to remember and celeb
 TANNERT-Charles W. A devoted husband, loving father and grandfather, and avid fisherman, Charlie passed quietly on the morning of March 12, 1998 at the age of fifty-nine. His wry wit, quiet nature, and strong character will be sorely missed by all that knew and loved him, especially his wif
 WASSERMAN-Eric. Beloved son of Samuel and Sandra Wasserman. Adored brother of Robert and Cary. Beloved grandson of Ethel Carmel Wasserman. Also son of Pat LaPedus. Your friends and your family love you and miss you. We welcome friends to our home to celebrate your life. Services Sunday, Mar
 Yale Brozen, a retired professor of business economics who was a vocal critic of government regulation, died on March 4 at his home in San Diego. He was 80. Mr. Brozen was suffering from heart disease, according to his wife, Katherine Hart Brozen. A member of the so-called C
 Adrian Marks, a Navy pilot who rescued 56 sailors struggling in the shark-filled Philippine Sea after the cruiser Indianapolis was sunk by Japanese torpedoes in July 1945, died on March 7 at Clinton County Hospital in his hometown of Frankfort, Ind. He was 81. Lieutenant Marks was f
 Charles F. Phillips, a former president of Bates College in Lewiston, Me., who helped oversee the Government's rationing of goods during World War II, died at the Central Maine Medical Center in Auburn on Tuesday. He was 87 and lived in Auburn. When he became president of Bates in 1
 BUTGER-Milton. Died March 12, 1998, aged 77. Beloved husband of Beatrice Butger; father of Harold and the late Alan Butger. Also survived by two sisters Ruth Magrab and Thelma Kirshenbaum, and by grandchildren Bari and Jodi Blair, and Beau Butger. BUTGER-Milton. The Board of Trustee
 CANBY-Edward Tatnall. On February 21, 1998 in Cornwall, CT., at age 85. The original members of the Canby Singers will ever be grateful for his musical nourishment and good fellowship and for the life-long friendships made as we sang together. Natalie Jaffe Richard Bodig Alison Kallman Herb
 GARDNER-Stephen. Steve Gardner, ''Shy'', born Christmas 1908 in New York; a Brooklynite for life, though he lived there only from 1915 to 1936; intellectual, raconteur, bibliophile, gourmet; a powerful presence in the lives of all those he touched, young and old; died March 10, 1998 in Sant
 GINSBERG-Benedict. 1908-1998. Mr. and Mrs Herbert R. Weissberg and Family mourn the passing of the greatest lawyer and loyal friend for more than forty years. We will miss him every day.       
 GOLDMAN-Samuel. Beloved husband of Bea. Devoted father of Eileen and Robert Roman, Elizabeth and Lawrence Goldman. Loving grandfather of Lisa and Paul, Mindy and Jonathan, Abra and Todd, and Meredith. Adored great grandfather of Max, Jake, Amanda, Alec and Carly. Services ''Boulevard-Rivers
 HECHT-George. Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund is saddened by the death of our long time supporter. George was deeply committed to our mission of protecting the rights of lesbians and gay men. His warmth, generosity and friendship will be deeply missed. Kevin M. Cathcart, Exec. Direc
 ISRAEL-Rosa. We extend our sincerest condolences to Romie Shapiro on the passing of his beloved sister, Rosa Israel. Romie, together with his wife Blanche, are Diamond Founders of the ''Hospital with a Heart'' and have dedicated themselves in a most extraordinary manner to many charitable e
 JOYCE-Donald. On Tuesday, March 10, 1998, at age 45, of cancer. Extraordinary musician, brilliant organist, imaginative and curious intellect, international organ ambassador of old and new music, beloved son and brother, loving and loyal friend to many. In addition to his Juilliard degrees,
 LITT-Michael William. On March 11, 1998, age 51. Survived by his mother Florence, sister Caren, brother Scott, and many friends and relatives who will greatly miss him. Service to remember and celebrate his life: Sunday, March 15 at 3PM, Philosophy Hall, Columbia University. For details, ca
 MILHAUPT-Charles. March 13, 1998. Son of Mary Thomas and the late Arthur Milhaupt, Jr. Brother of Gretchen Milhaupt, Merimee Moffitt, Tony Milhaupt and Ann Bottinelli. Memorial service Saturday, March 21, 1998, 2 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81st Street). Reception im
 MYERS-A. Howard. On March 6, 1998, after a long illness in Boca Raton, FL., at age 93. Formerly of Boston, and worked for the Department of Labor during the Roosevelt years, was Professor Emeritus of Industrial Relations at Northeastern University (1948-1978). Held faculty posts at Boston C
 THUNE - ANDERSEN - William. Thanks to Scandinavia records with profound sorrow the death of a very special human being and expresses heartfelt sympathy to his beloved family, his wife Gitte and his children Thomas, Karen, Nicolas and Michael and to his countless friends. His vast friendship
 TOWNSEND-Robert Chase. A memorial service will be held for Robert C. Townsend on Tuesday March 17 at 11 AM at All Saints Church, 855 Middle Neck Rd., Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y. Mr. Townsend, who died on the island of Anguilla on January 12, 1998 had been a Senior Vice President of Americ
 WOLFF-Rene Ernest. On March 9, 1998 in Strasbourg, France. Lifelong resident of Kolbsheim. Born there August 11, 1911. Paula and Elaine Wolff sadly announce the death of cherished Leon, Sylvia, Achille and Raymonde's brother. He is survived by Marthe, his wise and radiant wife of 60 years, 
 Rudolf Baranik, a painter, writer and teacher well known in the art world for his political advocacy, died March 6 at his home in El Dorado, N.M., outside Santa Fe. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said Lucy R. Lippard, the art critic and a longtime friend. Mr. Baran
 Carleton Putnam, who helped create a major airline, wrote an acclaimed biography of Theodore Roosevelt, and then, driven by opposition to the Supreme Court's 1954 school desegregation decision, turned out a classic defense of racial segregation, died on March 5 at his home in Charlottesvill
 Donald Joyce, an organist whose expansive repertory ranged from Renaissance and Baroque works by Spanish, Portuguese and Mexican composers to recent scores by Philip Glass, died on Tuesday at the home of his sister, Virginia Keil, in North Brunswick, N.J. Mr. Joyce was 45 and lived in Manha
 Nathan R. Owen, the longtime chairman and chief executive of the General Signal Corporation who helped build it into a major industrial company, died March 9 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 78. The cause of death was complications related to abdominal surgery, David Owen, his
 CHAMBERLIN-W. Macy. On March 13, in Florida, in his 98th year. Beloved husband of Irma Morell. Father of Kate deForest Johnson and Judith Macy Stroud. He is also survived by six grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, co
 EPSTEIN-Jacob. 94, at home. Jake left us March 10, to join Ruth, his beloved wife, companion, and comrade. Nieces, nephews, and countless friends will miss him always. A lifelong social activist, Jake went to Spain with the Abraham Lincoln Brigade. He was a translator, talented designer, lo
 FELLER-Peter. Died March 13, 1998, in Melbourne, FL, at age 78. Loving husband of Katherine. Devoted brother to Dr. Elizabeth Feller and Mrs. Dorothy Lohmann. Loving father of Peter Feller and daughter-in-law Lynn Feller, Philip Feller and daughter-in-law Gail Feller, and proud grandfather 
 GINSBERG-Benedict. 1908-1998. Mr. and Mrs Herbert R. Weissberg and Family mourn the passing of the greatest lawyer and loyal friend for more than forty years. We will miss him every day.       
 MacLEAN-Alexander G., Jr. Age 73, died Friday, March 13, 1998, after a short illness. He was born in Chicago and lived in Ridgewood, NJ, for 26 years. He attended the Illinois Institute of Technology and began a lifelong career in the textile industry and retired from his position as Nation
 MARSH-Samuel. September 16, 1912-March 13, 1998. Age 85. Retired physician. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Devoted father of Jonathan and David. Loving grandfather of Jeremey. Cherished brother of Lee and Laurel. He will be sorely missed. Service today, 11 AM, at ''Schwartz BrosJeffer,
 MILHAUPT-Charles. March 13, 1998. Son of Mary Thomas and the late Arthur Milhaupt, Jr. Brother of Gretchen Milhaupt, Merimee Moffitt, Tony Milhaupt and Ann Bottinelli. Memorial service Saturday, March 21, 1998, 2 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81st Street). Reception im
 NORTON-Thomas E. Friends of Tom are invited to gather in the Main Auction Room at Sotheby's, 1334 York Avenue, at 72nd St., on Wednesday, March 18, 6:30PM to celebrate his life and contributions to the art world. This informal gathering will be followed by a reception at the Galleries. All 
 Richard Plant, a teacher, a writer and a scholar of the Holocaust, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Mr. Plant was born in Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, and was educated in Switzerland. He later became a professor of Germanic literature at the City College of the Ci
 William W. Goodrich, a lawyer and pioneering advocate of food and pharmaceutical safety procedures died Tuesday at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va., of complications from lymphoma. He was 82 and lived in Arlington. When Mr. Goodrich joined the forerunner of the Food and Drug Adm
 Dr. Benjamin Spock, the pediatrician who gently coached anxious postwar parents to trust their ''own common sense,'' only to be blamed by some critics for the self-indulgence of those parents' children, the 60's generation, died on Sunday at his home in San Diego. He was 94. Over ha
 Gordon S. (Mickey) Cochran, a skiing coach whose four children became world-class skiers by heeding his instruction for years using the family rope tow in their Vermont back yard, died last Saturday at Respite House, a hospice in Williston, Vt. He was 74. The cause was congestive he
 BRODSKY-Alex. On March 10, 1998 in Boca Raton, Fla. Beloved husband of Anita, devoted father of Leslie and Jerry Caruso and Jeffrey and Kim Brodsky; proud grandfather of Megan. He will be missed and remembered always. Contributions in his memory may be made to American Assoc. of Kidney Pati
 CESA-Aldo. On March 15th, 1998, formerly of New Rochelle, NY. Husband of Louise, father of Christine Affronti, Robert Cesa and Jane Pedigree. Brother of Nick Cesa. Also survived by six grandchildren. Family will receive friends at the Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Ave., Scarsdale, Wed
 CHAMBERLIN-W. Macy. On March 13, 1998. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Honorary Trustee W. Macy Chamberlin. A member of our Board of Trustees for two decades, he was a beloved and revered leader of St. Luke's Hospital. His dedication and commi
 CHESNER - Bernard. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 DITTELMAN-Harold J. On March 15th, devoted husband of Jean, loving fahter of Lawrence (Sharon) and the late Stephen (Fay). Judge Dittelman was an Ossining Town Justice for 21 years. He practiced law in Westchester County for 60 years. Services will be held at The Congregation Sons of Israel
 FELLER-Peter. Died March 13, 1998, in Melbourne, FL, at age 78. Loving husband of Katherine. Devoted brother to Dr. Elizabeth Feller and Mrs. Dorothy Lohmann. Loving father of Peter Feller and daughter-in-law Lynn Feller, Philip Feller and daughter-in-law Gail Feller, and proud grandfather 
 GANT-Martin B. (Marty), 77. Of Boca Raton, FL. Passed away in peace at his home Sunday, March 15, 1998. He was born in Brooklyn, New York, Jan. 19, 1921, the son of the late Bernard and Rebecca Gantmacher. He was a University of Connecticut graduate and a U.S. Army Air Corp. B-17 pilot in W
 GINSBERG-Benedict. 1908-1998. Mr. and Mrs Herbert R. Weissberg and Family mourn the passing of the greatest lawyer and loyal friend for more than forty years. We will miss him every day.       
 GOLDMAN-Joel. The Members of The Seventh Manhattan District of Masons deeply regrets the demise of its beloved Brother, friend and Past President. We benefited from his friendships, advice and counsel, and will deeply miss him. Jay Stuart Dankberg       
 HARVEY-George Edward. Beloved husband of the late Nancy. Devoted father of George and Joyce Harvey, Clare and Barry Feldman, Joan and Manny Fonseca and John and Cathy Harvey. Loving grandfather of 11. He was a veteran of WW II, President of Harvey-Geary Assocs. Visitation Tuesday, March 17 
 JOYCE-Donald. On Tuesday, March 10, 1998, age 45, of cancer. Musician, organist, choir director, teacher. A service will be held on Saturday, March 28, at 1 P.M., at the Church of the Holy Apostles, 9th Ave at 28th St., NYC 10001. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made either to the Orga
 McGOURTY-Lawrence E., 76. Of Woodstock, Vermont, formerly of Placida, Florida, and Bolton, Massachusetts, died March 15 in Linden Lodge at the Brattleboro Retreat, Brattleboro, Vermont. Survived by his wife, Philomene (Gilman) McGourty; two sons, Lawrence E. McGourty, Jr. of Meredith, NJ, E
 MONK-Theodore Glenn, 88. Of Rancho Mirage, CA, died March 14 of natural causes. A graduate of NYU, he served in the Navy Seebees on Guam in W.W. II. He was President of Square Lumber and Supply Co.-President of the NY Lumber & Trade Assn. Mr. Monk was a volunteer for the Veterans Bedside Ne
 RAPPAPORT-Ozzie. Lido Beach Synagogue mourns the passing of our esteemed Board of Directors member. Our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife Rose and family. May God console the family in their hour of bereavement. Dr. Daniel H. Mehlman, Rabbi Herman Berger, Pres. Rose Brumberg, Pres. 
 RUBIN-Dr. Irving. April 7th, 1916March 13th, 1998. Distinguished pharmaceutical publisher, editor, writer, and educator. Caring husband to Florence, very loving father to Joanne and Saul, and devoted Grandpa to Jenny, Alex, Adina, and Sylvie. Irv will be missed dearly by his family, friends
 WEAVER-John H. Former husband of Nancy Weaver, cherished brother of James D. and Charles G. Weaver, dear friend of Ruth Merrill, loving uncle of Anne Weaver and also survived by one uncle, Dr. Neil Lebhar. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. WEAVER-John H. The Offi
 WEISS-Sigmund. On March 15, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Beulah B. Weiss. Survived by two stepsons, Charles R. and Donald Weil and brother-in-law Leo Bluhm Jr. and nine step-grandchildren. Interment privated. WEISS-Sigmund. Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York records 
 Thomas F. O'Neil, the former chairman of RKO General studios who brought movies to television and experimented -- unsuccessfully -- with an early coin-operated pay-TV system, died Saturday night at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 82, and the cause of death was heart failure complicated 
 Dr. Thomas H. Johnson, a cosmic ray physicist whose findings were part of the foundation for the field of high energy physics, died on Feb. 25 at his home in Denmark, Me. He was 98. Dr. Johnson worked at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island before becoming vice presiden
 Daniel Katz, a retired University of Michigan psychology professor who was an expert on organizational psychology, died on Feb. 28. He was 94 and lived in Ann Arbor, Mich. Professor Katz won the American Psychological Association's Gold Medal Award in 1973, when he retired from his 
 Frank S. McCullough, a former New York State lawmaker and justice in State Supreme Court in Westchester, died last Wednesday at the United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 92 and lived in Rye, N.Y. After working as a lawyer in Westchester, Mr. McCullough, a Republican, entered 
 Koong-Kai Tse, a former senior executive of the American International Group, one of the nation's largest insurers, died March 9 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 91 and lived in New York and Miami. Mr. Tse joined the company as a junior accountant in the 1920's and served as a senior 
 CHESNER-Bernard. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Bernard Chesner, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Evelyn and children Arlene, Cliff, Dana and Jeffrey. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Barry Swidler, Secr
 GINSBERG-Benedict. 1908-1998. Mr. and Mrs Herbert R. Weissberg and Family mourn the passing of the greatest lawyer and loyal friend for more than forty years. We will miss him every day.       
 JOYCE-Donald. With profound sorrow Central Synagogue mourns the loss of its esteemed organist Donald Joyce. His gentle and caring personality combined with his extraordinary musical talents will be sorely missed. May his memory serve us always as a blessing. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Sarah
 MILLER-Samuel S. The members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime member and good friend and extend sincere sympathy to his wife and family. Leonard Danon, President       
 O'NEIL-Thomas F. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board, and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note the passing of Thomas F. O'Neil, former Chairman of RKO General. Tom was a staunch supporter of people with cerebral palsy and related disabilities over many, man
 ONGLEY-Patrick A. The Trustees, Officers and staff of the China Medical Board of New York, Inc., mourn the passing of a former President, Dr. Patrick Ongley. We extend our sincere condolences to his beloved wife, daughter, son and grandchildren. Dr. Ongley served as President and Trustee fr
 SAFRAN-Melvin H. On March 16 at home. Age 85. Born in South Amboy, New Jersey, and graduated from Rutgers University. He served in the Pacific during World War II. He was a founder of the real estate firm Safran Brothers, together with his late brother, Ira. He served as President of the Mi
 SIERRA-Marcelino F. (Ph.D.) Of Rockville Centre. Succumbed on March 16 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, at age 54 following a long, noble, hard fought battle against cancer. His family, friends and colleagues deeply mourn his passing. He was a loving husband to Lorraine; beloved son of
 Payson Sibley Wild, a retired professor of international relations and provost emeritus of Northwestern University, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 92. Dr. Wild, born in Chicago, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Wisconsin. He received a
 Stanley Jay Makowsky, a prominent figure in radio sports broadcasting under the name Stan Martyn for decades, died on March 1 at Temple University hospital in Philadelphia. He was 68. The cause of death was heart failure, according to his wife, Rose-Ila. Mr. Makowsky, a resi
 Charlie Milhaupt, vice president of the Gilman Paper Company and a former film producer, died on March 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was AIDS, said Mark McDonald, a friend. Mr. Milhaupt joined the company in 1990 and was also a member of the board of the 
 Dr. Derek H. R. Barton, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for adding a third dimension to chemical analysis, which has been central to research on new drugs and chemicals for decades, died on Monday at his home in College Station, Tex. He was 79. He had suffered a heart attack, s
 George W. Humphreys, a political adviser who worked in more than 80 election campaigns, all Republican except for his final one in Georgia,  died on Monday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 65 and had lived in Atlanta since moving from Manhattan about a dozen years ago. The ca
 CAMPBELL-George, IV. Known as Duffy. Killed accidentally on Friday the 13th in Bakersfield, CA. He will be buried from St. John's Episcopal Church, Pleasantville, NY, Saturday, March 21, 1998 at 11 AM. For info: Beecher Funeral Home, Inc. Pleasantville, NY.       
 FLANEL-Ralph I. We note with profound sorrow the passing of our colleague and valued friend. Ralph has been associated with our family for more than 45 years and we are grateful for all his efforts in our behalf. We offer our sincere sympathy to Renee, Diane and Ted. The John Civetta Family
 GINSBERG-Benedict. 1908-1998. Mr. and Mrs Herbert R. Weissberg and Family mourn the passing of the greatest lawyer and loyal friend for more than forty years. We will miss him every day.       
 GOTTDIENER-Arthur, Ph.D. The Institute for Contemporary Psychotherapy notes with great sadness the passing of a much esteemed training and supervising analyst. Dr. Gottdiener was a revered supervisor who imparted his skill and knowledge to many students. His perceptiveness and wit will be s
 KAUFMAN-John E., 71. A noted lighting engineer and long-time resident of Stamford, died at home Monday morning, March 16. The cause of death was cardiac arrest. Mr. Kaufman, who retired in 1992, was formerly technical director of the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, and ed
 LaBRANCHE-George M.L. III. Age 72. Born in New York City on November 11, 1925. Died March 17 after a valiant struggle against cancer. George joined the Marine Corps in 1942 at the age of 17 and later fought in the battle of Iwo Jima. He retired as the President of Roy B. Rendle Company, a B
 LAVERY-Peter Rutherford Randolph. An accomplished OffBroadway stage manager, director and multimedia producer, died of a heart attack March 12. He was 60 years old. A former council member of Actors Equity from 1971 to 1977. He is survived by his sister, Sarah Fach of Newton, MA, and a daug
 MELAMED-Moises. On March 17, 1998. Devoted father of Deborah Melamed and the late Steven Melamed, and like a father to Vicki Passman. A uniquely kind and generous man with boundless energy and love, who took such good care of all of us. We are indescribably sad at losing him. Services Thurs
 SAFRAN-Melvin. The Board of Trustees and members of the Ocean Beach Club note with sadness the loss of longtime friend and member Mel Safran. Our sincere condolences to his wife Nan, his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Sandy Paskin, President Laurie Lowenstein, Secretary   
 SIERRA-Marcelino F. (Ph.D.) Of Rockville Centre. Succumbed on March 16 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, at age 54 following a long, noble, hard fought battle against cancer. His family, friends and colleagues deeply mourn his passing. He was a loving husband to Lorraine; beloved son of
 Hideo Shima, a designer and driving force behind the building of the first bullet train, a symbol of the postwar re-emergence of Japan as a technological and economic power, died of a stroke yesterday in a hospital in Tokyo. He was 96. In the early 1960's, as the chief engineer of t
 When Atal Bihari Vajpayee was sworn in today as the 16th Prime Minister of India since independence 50 years ago, many onlookers outside the presidential palace thought he looked curiously uncomfortable. His first words as Prime Minister were certainly more solemn than cheerful. ''I have a 
 EPSTEIN-Jacob. A dear friend and fellow music lover joins family members and countless friends of all ages in noting the passing of an extraordinary human being. I will sorely miss his keen wit, long-standing commitment to dignity and respect for all human beings, and profound and unquencha
 FIELDING-J. William, M.D.. The Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center acknowledge with sadness the passing of J. William Fielding, M.D., former Chairman of the Dept of Orthopedics. Dr. Fielding was a beloved and revered colleague who exemp
 FLANEL-Ralph I. We note with profound sorrow the passing of our colleague and valued friend. Ralph has been associated with our family for more than 45 years and we are grateful for all his efforts in our behalf. We offer our sincere sympathy to Renee, Diane and Ted. The John Civetta Family
 GINSBERG-Benedict. 1908-1998. Mr. and Mrs Herbert R. Weissberg and Family mourn the passing of the greatest lawyer and loyal friend for more than forty years. We will miss him every day.       
 KLEBAN-Julian Milton. Died on March 19th, 1998 at the age of 92. Beloved father of Toby Levine of Potomac, MD and the late Edward Kleban, devoted husband of the late Sylvia Kandel Kleban. Loving father-in-law of Andrew Levine. Adoring grandfather of Caren Pelletier and Amy Levine and grandf
 KREMNITZER-John. On March 19, 1998. Devoted husband of Susan. Beloved father of Ronald and the late Carol. Cherished grandfather of Jordana, Corin, Kathryn and Ben. Services Friday 10 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. May his memory be blessed. KREMNITZER
 LaBRANCHE-George M.L. III. Age 72. Born in New York City on November 11, 1925. Died March 17 after a valiant struggle against cancer. George joined the Marine Corps in 1942 at the age of 17 and later fought in the battle of Iwo Jima. He retired as the President of Roy B. Rendle Company, a B
 LYNTON-Ernest A. Age 71. Died peacefully at home on Wednesday, March 18. Survived by his wife Carla, two sons and their families: David and Jeanette, their children Ashley, Jared, Rachel and Aubrey, in Alpine, UT; Eric and Aviva, their children Liran, Adi and Tal, in Kfar Hanassi, Israel; a
 NIEVES-Cesar Antonio, Jr. on March 14, 1998. Husband, father, grandfather, son, brother and great friend. Dear, brave and full of life, his grace and caring touched all he knew. Love, Bernie       
 SIERRA-Marcel. A brave, warm, wonderful friend and neighbor. He will be deeply missed by Muriel, Inez, Betty and our families.       
 WEISBERG-Howard Beck, 77. Died on Thursday, March 12, 1998. Born on November 21st, 1920, in Buffalo, New York. He was preceded in death by his wife of 44 years, Lillian Poltorak Weisberg, parents, Nathan and Cecilia Weisberg, brother Sheldon Weisberg, and sister, Sally Weisberg Alperin. He 
 WILLIAMS-Craig. The Systems and Technology Department of The New York Times extends their deepest sympathy to Craig Williams' family on his passing. Always a cheerful friend and coworker who was optimistic and courageous, no matter how serious his ailments were. We think of Craig with tende
 EISENBERG-Larry. 1952-1993. He did it all in a short time, because a short time is all he had. Love you. Mother and Arlene       
 Cliff Barker, who helped the University of Kentucky win two National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball titles a half century ago and then coached and played in the National Basketball Association, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Satsuma, Fla. He was 77. He died in his
 George Hecht, a retired electronics manufacturer, inventor and major supporter of Cooper Union and many civic causes, died on March 9 at Astoria General Hospital in Queens. He was 90 and lived in Astoria. Until recently, Mr. Hecht was a presence in most activities of the Cooper Unio
 Jheri Redding, an Illinois farm boy who founded four hair care products companies, revolutionized the economics of the hair salon industry and changed the way much larger companies market shampoos, died on Sunday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Redding wa
 BRESLIN-Michael T. Of NYC, suddenly on March 19, 1998 at age 57. Survived by his wife Janice (nee Pacifico), his mother Alice and eleven siblings. Reposing on Saturday 7-9 P.M., and Sunday 2-4 and 79 PM at Meserole Funeral Home, Inwood, Long Island. Mass on Monday 10 A.M., at Our Lady of Go
 FEINBERG-Norman, 76. A generous, caring man with a special warmth and wisdom. He passed away suddenly on Wednesday, March 18. He will always be cherished by his loving wife and best friend Lois, their children Barney, Robert and Ellen and their spouses Tracy, Ruth and Ken. His greatest joy 
 GINSBERG-Benedict. 1908-1998. Mr. and Mrs Herbert R. Weissberg and Family mourn the passing of the greatest lawyer and loyal friend for more than forty years. We will miss him every day.       
 LaBRANCHE-George M.L. III. Age 72. Born in New York City on November 11, 1925. Died March 17 after a valiant struggle against cancer. George joined the Marine Corps in 1942 at the age of 17 and later fought in the battle of Iwo Jima. He retired as the President of Roy B. Rendle Company, a B
 OBERKOTTER-Paul. Age 93, Mar. 16 suddenly at his apartment in Manhattan. Survived by his daughter Mildred L. Oberkotter of Palo Alto, CA; his daughter-in-law, Joyce Oberkotter widow of his son Robert of Newport, NH; three grandchildren and ten great grandchildren. Burial will be private and
 PARNES-Edward, age 92 on March 19, 1998. Beloved husband of Harriet (Novich) Parnes. Loving father of Jane and Raymond Epstein, and Kate and Andrew Parnes. Grandfather of Kevin, Christy, Ryan, Daniel, and Devyn. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Saturd
 ROBERTS-George D. III in New York on March 17, 1998. Survived by his children, Janet R. Capinera and George D. IV of Watertown, CT, and Peter E. of Savannah, GA; sister Janet Dwyer of Wayne, NJ; brother Ronald E. of Greensboro, NC and friend, Denise Melato of NY. Burial in Hillside Cemetery
 SIERRA-Marcelino F., PhD. The administration, faculty, staff and students of the State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn mourn the untimely passing of our colleague, Marcelino F. Sierra, PhD, Associate Professor of Pathology and Director of Clinical Microbiology at Un
 SNYDER-Joseph E., M.D., age 80. Of Holmes Beach, FL, formerly of River Edge, NJ, died March 16 in Bradenton, Florida. Survived by his wife, June (Wilke) Snyder; two sons, Robert E., Richard A., five grandchildren. Beginning in 1947, Dr. Snyder was Assistant Vice President of Columbia Presby
 WALLACH-Samuel. Left us at the age of 98. Sound of mind and humor. He lived to a maturation of loving wisdom. He assessed the world's troubles with sympathy and hope, and entertained us with high spirits and poetry. We are more for him having been here. Devoted husband to the late Blanche. 
 Peter L. Feller, a Tony Award-winning builder of sets for Broadway shows, died on March 13 at Holmes Regional Hospital in Melbourne, Fla. He was 78 and lived in Melbourne. The cause was a heart-related illness, his family said. Mr. Feller, the son of a master carpenter who a
 BOWLER-William R. Age 83. Died peacefully at home on Thursday, March 19, 1998. Beloved husband of Adele. Devoted father of William, Howard, David, Carolyn and Meredyth. Loving grandfather. His warmth, generosity and insight will be deeply missed. A memorial service will be held at Wave Hill
 CHESLER-Richard Miles, Sr. 69. Of Shady Side, MD, died of cancer at Anne Arundel Medical Center on March 18, 1998. Mr. Chesler's immediate survivors are his wife Alice, three daughters, Deborah Poteet, Diane Pounsberry, and Denise Chesler, two sons, Richard, Jr. and Donald, 9 grandchildren,
 COHEN-Alfred G. 85. Died March 15, 1998. He was the president of Macon Umbrella Corp., located in Brooklyn, NY. Mr. Cohen pioneered in the use of aluminum in the construction of the garden umbrella, winning awards from his national trade association. He was instrumental in the formation of 
 FEINBERG-Norman. His lifelong friends and their families mourn the wrenching loss of one who has been a true brother to all of us. The memory of his loving kindness, friendship and caring will sustain us and we shall miss him every day of our lives. The Amici       
 FIELDING-Dr. Joseph William. At Port Huron, MI, March 18, 1998, at age 75. He graduated from the University of Toronto Medical School '46. Former Chief of Orthopaedic Surgery of St. Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital in New York City and past President of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery.
 HEXTER-Leo. The entire staff of Modern International Corporation deeply mourn the passing of Leo Hexter, March 18, 1998, a devoted and respected Vice President for many years. Our condolences to his dear wife Martha and to all his children and grandchildren. Modern International Corporation
 LYNTON-Ernest A. Age 71. Died peacefully at home on Wednesday, March 18. Survived by his wife Carla, two sons and their families: David and Jeanette, their children Ashley, Jared, Rachel and Aubrey, in Alpine, UT; Eric and Aviva, their children Liran, Adi and Tal, in Kfar Hanassi, Israel; a
 MADSEN-Viggo Holm, longtime resident of Albertson, New York died at Doniphan, Missouri, March 20, 1998, after a long illness, at the age of 72. A well-known artist and art educator, he taught art at Roslyn High School for 22 years and was Adjunct Professor of Art at Nassau Community College
 ORGANSKI-Professor Abramo Fimo Kenneth. Political scientist and educator, died on March 6 of a heart attack. Dr. Organski was born in Rome in 1923, where he attended the Ginnasio Liceo Torquato Tasso. He came to the United States with his parents Menasce and Anna (Feinstein) Organski and hi
 SHARROW-Victor. Died March 11, 1998. Age 79. Survived by his wife Naomi Sharrow and two children Loralee Sheridan, Newport Beach, CA, and Joel, Garrison, NY, and four grandchildren.       
 STAMM-Everard M.C. Madeleine his wife, Kenneth his son, Christine his daughter-in-law, Caroline and Margaux, his granddaughters saddly announce that Everard the kindest, ''gentle gentleman'', died on March 4, 1998 in the south of France. Born in England, he lived in Manhattan before retirin
 STEWART-Sydney T., Ph.D. We mourn deeply the death of our colleauge Sydney T. Stewart, Ph.D., training psychoanalyst, man of letters and connoisseurship, who survived Bataan prison camps to give his gifts of thoughtfulness and wisdom to others. Harriet I. Basseches, Ph.D. President The New 
 STILLMAN-Israel E. Ned died in Florida March 19, 1998. Graduate of Boys High and NYU. Active in the millinery industry and synagogue. Loving husband of Frances and Julia, partner of Bea, devoted father of Barbara and Bill Cohen, David and Enid Stillman. Adored and adoring grandfather of Mer
 Vincent J. Galvani, a chemical engineer who was in charge of designing the trigger mechanism for the first atomic bomb during World War II, died on Wednesday at his home in Southampton, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Galvani made use of research on a number of other weapons, including buzz bom
 William M. Haenszel, an epidemiologist at the National Cancer Institute who set up the first national system to track cases of cancer and their possible causes, died on March 13 at his home in Wheaton, Ill. He was 87. That system -- called SEER, for Surveillance, Epidemiology and En
 Benjamin Bowden, an industrial designer who created a futuristic bicycle that became an expensive collector's item, died on March 6 in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 91. Mr. Bowden was born in London and studied at the Regent Street Polytechnic school, a daughter, Gina Bowden-Pierce, said.
 Jack R. Howard, a newspaper heir who became a pioneer in broadcasting, died yesterday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 87. The cause was pulmonary failure, said his son, Michael Balfe Howard. The son of Roy W. Howard, a founder of United Press, Mr. Howard was chairman of t
 CURRIE-Stanley R. The Board of Directors of the Seligman Group of Mutual Funds and Tri-Continental Corporation have learned with profound regret of the death on March 16 of Stanley R. Currie, a member of the Board from 1971 until his retirement in 1993. Mr. Currie served the Seligman Funds 
 FIER-Dr. Morton. Of Ridgewood, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Ricki; cherished son of Freda; devoted father of Ian, Carl and Claudia; father-in-law of Layne and Rachel; brother of Leonard; loving grandfather of Hannah, Samantha and Daniel. He was an attending psychiatrist for more than 35 y
 NEWBURGER-Stanley W. March 19, 1998, at age 81. Professor of philosophy at SUNY New Paltz. Previously taught at Columbia where he received his Ph.D. A gentle, intelligent, generous man-deeply curious about the world-he will be much missed by his family and friends.       
 OBERKOTTER-Paul. The National Center for Disability Services mourns the passing of Paul Oberkotter, a dear friend and supporter of programs for children and adults with disabilities. His efforts leave a lasting legacy that will improve the lives of countless future generations. He will be m
 SMERLING-Rabbi Samuel. We mourn the passing of Rabbi Samuel Smerling and extend our sincere condolences to his bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The I.J. Morris Family       
 DAVIDMAN-Irving. Remembered on his 29th yahrzeit, 25 Adar, by his sons Joe and Lenny Davidman       
 F. Cecil Brenner, a scientist and regulator whose legacy can be found on nearly every tire on the road, died on Thursday at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 79. He died of complications after surgery for a brain tumor, his daughter  Vivian Brenner said.    
 Greg MacGregor, a foreign correspondent who reported on the Korean War as well as economic and political developments in Southeast Asia during a 17-year career at The New York Times, died on Sunday in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 85. The cause of death was cancer, according to his fam
 Michael Reardon, bartender to famous writers, mayors, journalists, stockbrokers, seamen, singers or any guy who dropped in off the street over the course of 30 years at the Lion's Head, a legendary species of New York bar that became extinct because people just didn't drink anymore the way 
 BERTENTHAL-Irving. Age 93. Father of Muriel Weisel, Doris Sklar and husband Samuel, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Beloved by all. Shiva will be observed through Sunday morning March 29th. BERTENTHAL-Irving. The Kingsbridge Center of Israel records with sorrow the passing of
 CAMERON-Allen. Of Essex, CT., March 20, age 86. Husband of Ruth I. Cameron, Father of Suzanne Schutz of Greenwich, CT., and Laurie Larkin of Claremont, CA; Brother of F. Morton Cameron and Sister Donalda Cameron both of San Diego, California, and Grandfather of 3. Contributions in his memor
 DOCKSTADER-Frederick. Author and former director of the Museum of the American Indian in New York. Survived by his wife of 47 years, Alice Dockstader died March 21 after a short illness.       
 GREENBERG-Philip, 83 of Woodstock, NY, formerly of Jackson Heights, died March 19, 1998. Husband of the late Evelyn, father of Leslie and Robert, grandfather of Justin and Gavin, brother of Rabbi Sidney Greenberg and Sara Aboff, dear friend and companion of Shirley Fink. Former ''tie-coon''
 HOWARD-Jack Rohe. On March 22, 1998. Husband of the late Barbara Balfe Howard and the late Eleanor Harris Howard. Father of Pamela Howard Gumprecht and Michael Balfe Howard. Brother of Jane Howard Perkins. Grandfather of Eliza Howard, Esme Howard, Matthew Beatty Howard, Cassie Mei Howard, J
 ISQUITH-Moses. Beloved husband of Clara. Devoted father of Rantch and Lenore. Adored grandfather of Jennifer and David. Brother of Santley, Murray and Jack. He was the recipient of The Purple Heart, African Campaign Ribbon with two Battle Stars, Good Conduct Ribbon, Combat Infantry Badge an
 KATZ-Seymour L. Loving and beloved husband of Rose for 58 years. Caring and devoted father of Steven and his wife Susan, and Herbert and his wife Linda. Cherished and loving grandfather of Naomi and Aviva, and Jonathan, David and Marlee. Dear brother of Esther and Sylvia. He was gentle and 
 KELLY-Thomas. We are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Tom Kelly, a loyal and devoted member of our organization. He will surely be missed by all of us. Our deepest sympathy goes out to his family. Friends and Co-Workers at Dorby Frocks and Miss Dorby       
 MENDELSON-Herbert. Thanks for the integral part you played in our success. For 38 years you were always there to guide us. Without you, who knows where we would have been. Gould Investors LP MENDELSON-Herbert L. On March 23, 1998 of streptococcus A infection. Treasured husband of Jo
 PEDOLSKY-Milton. Formerly of Port Washington, NY. Loving to, and dearly loved by, his late wife, Beverly; son, Richard; daughter-inlaw, Cecillia; grandson, Isak; daughter, Andrea; Nicholas; and many wonderful friends. He will be greatly missed. Memorial service April 7, 4 PM, at Cooper Unio
 SMERLING-Rabbi Samuel. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1949, he served as a chaplain in the United States Army after which he served pulpits in New Jersey and New York, most recently the Rosedale Jewish Center (NY). We extend our heartfelt condolences
 WALSH-Frederick Harper, Jr., 82. Of Hobe Sound, FL., died Friday, March 13, 1998. A native of Bronx, New York, he had lived in Hobe Sound for 18 years, prior to that he had resided in Port Washington and Manhasset, L.I. New York for 33 years. Before retirement, he was an advertising Sales M
 Albert Wolff, believed to have been the last survivor of the Untouchables, the band of reputedly incorruptible Federal agents under Eliot Ness who waged war against Al Capone in Prohibition-era Chicago, died on Saturday at the Cedar Village nursing home in Mason, Ohio. He was 95. Ba
 Antonio Cardinal Ribeiro of Lisbon, who helped maneuver the Roman Catholic Church into a pro-democracy stance after Portugal's right-wing dictatorship was overthrown in 1974, died today at Santo Antonio Hospital in suburban Lisbon. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, Portuguese ne
 BARTRAM-David G. March 18, 1998 in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. after an extended illness. Born in Indianapolis, IN., he moved to Terre Haute and attended Indiana State University. During WWII, Bartram served the U.S. Navy in Norfolk, VA. before developing an accounting firm back in TerreHaute wh
 DOCKSTADER-Frederick J. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Huntington Free Library and Reading Room mourn the death of friend and colleague, Frederick J. Dockstader. A trustee of the library for almost 30 years, we will remember him for his unwavering support of the library, his signifi
 GINSBURG-Eli. Survived by his wife, Suzan, daughters Ellen, Lynn and Amy and sisters Pat Rudnick and Shirley Engel. Worked fifty years in the magazine publishing industry holding various circulation and marketing positions. Past President of READ and Board Member of the 25 year Club. Family
 IANNOLI-Vincent. Age 73. Mar. 17, 1998 in Conroe, TX. after a long illness. A resident of New York City for many years, he was interred March 21 in a family plot in Saint Ann Cemetery, Cranston, R.I. following a Mass of Christian Burial at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church in Providence. A Me
 KATZ-Seymour L. Loving and beloved husband of Rose for 58 years. Caring and devoted father of Steven and his wife Susan, and Herbert and his wife Linda. Cherished and loving grandfather of Naomi and Aviva, and Jonathan, David and Marlee. Dear brother of Esther and Sylvia. He was gentle and 
 LEDER-Matthew. Age 37. Of Westwood, N.J. On March 23, 1998. Survived by his loving parents Dr. Robert and Barbara and his devoted brothers Richard and Michael. Charitable contributions may be made to General Scholarship Fund of New York University. Services today, 10 A.M., Robert Schoem's M
 MENDELSON-Herbert L. On March 23, 1998 of streptococcus A infection. Treasured husband of Joan, cherished father of Susan and Barry Stein, Billy and Carole and Clifford and Tammy, proud grandfather of Benjamin and Noa, Sophie and Michael and Amanda and Annie, devoted son of Ralph (and Edna)
 OBERKOTTER-Paul. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Paul Oberkotter, a loyal friend and benefactor of the Hospital for many years. Mr. Oberkotter's generous support of the Hospital's work is ins
 SARTORIUS-John Manfred. Of Quogue, NY formerly of Tenafly, NJ, died on March 23, 1998 after a long illness in his 78th year. He is survived by his devoted wife Nancy, four sons, John, Jr., Peter, David and Scott, a brother Robert Sartorius. He was predeceased by his first wife, Frances Cauc
 SONTHEIMER-Carl G. Age 83, engineer and co-founder with his wife, Shirley of Cuisinarts, Inc., died on March 23 in Greenwich, Connecticut. The cause of death was respiratory failure. He was a native New Yorker and received much of his early education at a lycee in Paris before continuing hi
 WEISSMAN-K.B. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of K.B. Weissman of Palm Beach, FL. A life trustee of the ATS Board of Regents and an alternate member of the International Board of Governors of the Technion, he was ferve
 Carl G. Sontheimer, a creative electronics engineer and successful entrepreneur who made his most visible contribution to the American economy -- and American kitchens -- after his retirement, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 83 and known as the man who 
 Edward V. Lipman Sr., whose career at Ocean Spray Cranberries Inc. spanned 51 years, died on March 13 at his home in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 87. Mr. Lipman retired in 1977 after 21 years as manager of southeastern operations of the marketing cooperative, which is owned by more th
 CRUPE-Santo W. Esq., March 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Isabelle (nee Tuzio). Devoted father of Dorothy Tomasulo, William Santo and Peter James. Loving grandfather of Christine Ayers, William Santo Jr. and Elizabeth Crupe, and Stephen and Anthony Tomasulo. Born in Albany, New York, he was a
 GOLD-Arnold. On March 23, 1998, age 75, passed away as the result of a stroke. Beloved father of Sidney, brother of Eleanor Sterman and Uncle of Judith Kornbluh. Funeral services, Thursday, March 26, 11 A.M., at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 Second Avenue, NYC. Contributions in his mem
 GRAY-Jack M. Age 68, on March 18, in Spartanburg, S.C. Formerly of NYC. Beloved husband of Mary Gray, and loving father of Patricia and Jonathan. He will be greatly missed. Services private.       
 HAAR-George A. On March 25, 1998, of Cliffside Park and West End, NJ, formerly of Fairlawn, NJ, of an intracerebral hemorrhage. Adored husband of Arline (nee Goldberg), loving and devoted father of Geoffrey and Jane, Robert and Beth, Gary and Natalie, and Marc (deceased). Cherished granfath
 MENDELSON-Herbert. My first friend, my friend for life. It is impossible for me to accept your untimely death. You were always there for my needs. What pleasure and joy you took in my successes. What wisdom and support you gave me when my life was not so kind. Was there anyone smarter with 
 MOHR-Donald. Temple Beth Torah, Westbury, New York, mourns the loss of our beloved member. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Esther and children Ian and Pamela. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Michael Katz Ivan Ziegler, Pres.       
 SARTORIUS-John M. Of Quogue, New York, formerly of Tenafly, New Jersey, died on March 23, 1998 after a long illness in his 78th year. He is survived by his devoted wife Nancy, four sons, John, Jr., Peter, David and Scott, a sister Beverly VanderPoel, a brother Robert Sartorius. He was prede
 WEISSMAN-K.B. A devoted and loyal Trustee of the Optometric Center of NY & of SUNY College of Optometry, K.B. Weissman was a staunch advocate of care for the needy and underprivileged. For more than 3 decades, Ben constantly proselytized for better care for children, particularly those who 
 WILLIAMS-Rev. James Lawrence Basil, a retired Episcopal clergyman, died Mar. 21, 1998, in Palm Beach, FL. He was 84. He is survived by a daughter, actress Judith Barcroft Washam of N.Y., NY, and a son, Ian R.D. Williams, a lawyer in White Post, VA., and four grandchildren, Ian Washam, Amy W
 Ben Bagley, who produced several hit Off Broadway revues and a much-admired series of recordings  of obscure Broadway songs, died on Saturday at his home in Jackson Heights, Queens. He was 64. The cause was complications from emphysema, said his friend and longtime assistant, Charle
 Bernard Meltzer, the folksy foggy-voiced radio personality who built a huge following in the 20 years that he dispensed advice over WOR-AM in New York on virtually every known problem and every conceivable subject, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 81 and widely regar
 DESIBIA-Edward J., 82. Of 2 South View Drive, Keene, NH died Tuesday at Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers, FL. He was born in New York City, August 12, 1915, the son of John and Grace (Antonucci) Desibia, was raised there and then lived most of his life in River Edge, NJ before moving to 
 GOODMAN-Nena. The directors, trustees, staff, and patients of National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver wish to express our deepest sympathy to the family of Nena Goodman, who passed away March 19. Mrs. Goodman was the widow of Andrew Goodman. Andrew Goodman's father, Edwin, beg
 HAAR-George. The Jewish Community Center of Fort Lee is profoundly saddened and deeply mourns the passing of an esteemed member of it's Board of Trustees and Co-Chairman of its Ritual Committee. He was a very generous benefactor and guiding light to our Synagogue. George led by example and 
 KABAT-Darwin F. Died March 25, 1998. Devoted husband of Henrietta ''Muchie''. Loving father of Richard, Jeff (Cindy) and Jacqueline Brodar. Adored grandfather of Ross, Larry, Andrew and Max. Services Friday, March 27th, 2PM at Riverside Gordon Memorial Chapel, West Palm Beach, FL. K
 KATZ-Ira, Ph.D. Friends and colleagues mourn the passing of Dr. Ira Katz, age 64, on March 24 in West Long Branch, NJ. Our friend was retired as Vice President and Director of Research and Development for International Flavors & Fragrances, where he was employed for 30 years. He was the bel
 KEAVY-William T., M.D. The Lenox Hill Hospital family expresses it sorrow at the passing of William T. Keavy, M.D., a distinguished member of our Plastic Surgery staff for twenty-seven years. Dr. Keavy was nationally and internationally renowned for his exceptional skill as a plastic and re
 KEAVY-William, M.D. The Lenox Hill Hospital Alumni Association has lost a treasured colleague and friend. Dr. William Keavy, a member of the Section of Plastic Surgery for over 30 years, and an active member of the LHH Alumni Association, was of a spirit that knew only how to give to others
 MELTZER-Bernard C. On March 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Meredith. Father of Melinda Jacobs, Cynthia Weller, Lesley Silverstein and Michael Meltzer. Grandfather of eight. Brother of Rae Fieldman and Dora Glatter. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Friday, Mar
 Paul Oberkotter, a former chief executive of the United Parcel Service, died on March 16 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 93. In 1925, Mr. Oberkotter began his career at U.P.S., then a fledgling package delivery outfit, as a stenographer-clerk. A native of Chadron, Neb., who mo
 David F. Powers, whose loyalty, sense of humor and contacts throughout Boston's Irish community made him a close friend and aide to John F. Kennedy and a fixture at the Kennedy White House, died today at the Symmes Medical Center in Arlington, Mass. He was 85. He died of cardiac arr
 Ferdinand Porsche, creator of the German sports car that bore his family name and son of the legendary engineer who designed the Volkswagen Beetle, died yesterday at his family's vacation home in the Austrian resort town of Zell am See. He was 88. Mr. Porsche, known as Ferry, and hi
 BARTYNSKI-Jerry S., 73. Of Jamesburg, New Jersey, on March 26, 1998. Retired president of Independent Components Corporation and president of Corona Air Equipment, Corp., he is survived by sons Walter and Robert, and daughters-in-law Barbara and Daphne, and grandchildren Steven, Sara, Andre
 HOROWITZ-Irvin. We note with sorrow the sudden passing of a loyal member and dear friend. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family. Hilary Chilton Auxiliary President North Shore University Hospital/ Manhasset       
 KABAT-Darwin. We mourn the passing of our former partner and dear friend. We will miss him and his example. We extend our condolences to our partner Jeff, and the Kabat family. David Levine, Arthur Goodman Charles Goodman & Co., Ltd.       
 KEAVY-William T., M.D., age 62, an internationally renowned reconstructive and plastic surgeon, died March 26, 1998 in Lenox Hill Hospital. Dr. Keavy was born in Bridgeport, CT., and resided in Westport, CT., and Central Park South, NYC. He was a graduate of Fairfield Preparatory School, Fa
 MORTON-Frederick Samuel, III, 77, a long time resident of Charlottesville and retired University professor, died on Sunday, March 22nd, at the University of Virginia Hospital after a brief illness. He was the widower of the former Margaret Elizabeth Burke and, previously, of the former Elsi
 TORCZYNER-Harry. Order of Leopold, Belgium, in his 88th year, son of the late Numa and Rachel Torczyner, precious husband of Marcelle Siva, adored father of Evelyn Musher Shechter and Denise Wiseman, respected fatherin-law of Samuel Shechter and Sam Wiseman, doting grandfather of Joshua and
 Arthur Stanley Link, whose prodigious 35-year effort editing the papers of Woodrow Wilson set the standard for the presentation of historical documents, died of lung cancer on Thursday at the Bermuda Village Health Center in Advance, N.C. He was 77 and widely regarded as the foremost author
 Daniel Massey, a stylish and versatile actor who performed with equal ease in plays by Shaw, Wilde and Pinter as well as in Broadway musicals and was for many years an important member of the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Royal National Theater, died on Wednesday in a London hospital. H
 Maurice Sagoff, a reformed journalist who made a late-life name for himself abbreviating great literature into terse humorous verse, died on March 18 at a hospital near his home in Acton, Mass. He was 88 and the author of ''Shrinklits: 70 of the World's Towering Classics Cut Down to Size.''
 ALTON-Bill. From Second City to Lincoln Center; a full and gifted life. Playhouse 90 and Candid Camera. Cannes Film Festival and Clio Awards. U. of Chicago, Bennington, Sarah Lawrence. Actor. Director. Teacher. A kind soul, dedicated to creating a safe place to act. Faithful to his belief t
 BELL-Victor Charles. 96, lifelong Manhattan resident with distinguished naval and civilian careers, died March 5 at the home of his daughter Mrs. Wendy Walsh of Hackensack. Investment banker, industrialist and combat veteran of WWI and WWII, serving in the Mediterranean and on Guadalcanal. 
 DAVIS-Philip. The lawyer who established the precedent that a purchasor of a ticket on the New York Central Railroad is contractually entitled to a seat, died March 26, 1998 in Basking Ridge, NJ at the age of 90. Mr. Davis was born January 10, 1908 and worked from the age of 12 when his fat
 GLASS-Stephen Samuel. 70. Passed away March 27, 1998 at home. Beloved husband to Aileen (nee Harris). Loving father to Linda and Jeffry Schwartz and Kenneth and Heidi Glass. Adoring Poppy to Melissa Schwartz, Jared and Brandon Glass. Brother of Nancy Pines. Graduate of USNA, Class of '49. P
 GREENBERG - Philip, 83. Of Woodstock, NY, formerly of Jackson Heights, died March 19, 1998. Husband of the late Evelyn, father of Leslie and Robert, grandfather of Justin and Gavin, brother of Rabbi Sidney Greenberg and Sara Aboff, dear friend and companion of Shirley Fink. Former ''tie-coo
 HERBST-Daniel L. Age 69, of Larchmont, NY, died March 23, 1998, at his home of a heart attack. Born in Brooklyn, and a graduate of Brooklyn College, Mr. Herbst was a sales and marketing executive in the hospital supply business most of his career. He was a U.S. Army captain during the Korea
 LERMAN-Dr. Sidney, 70, died on March 18th, 1998, of complications from Crohn's Disease. A distinguished ophthalmologist, acclaimed throughout his profession for his work in many areas of eye research, Dr. Lerman, a native of Montreal, graduated from McGill University with honors and from Mc
 LUDLOW-Alden R., Jr. Of Lawrence, NY on March 26, 1998 at age 86. Husband of the late Mabel Whitman Ludlow. Son of the late Alden Rodney Ludlow and Alician Gamble Ludlow. Brother of the late Alicia Ludlow Cavanagh. He is survived by his sons Alden R. Ludlow, III and Eben W. Ludlow and grand
 MORRIS-Frederick Myers, DD, STD. 92, husband of the late Dorothy Quincy (Hastings) Morris, died March 27, 1998, in Bloomfield, CT. He was born in Los Angeles in 1906, son of Lewis G. and Ruth (Myers) Morris. Dr. Morris served as Rector of St. Thomas Church, New York for 18 years from 1954 t
 ROBBINS-Leonard John. In Manhattan at the age of 95. A graduate of Jesus College, Cambridge University, and New York Law School, he was a senior partner of Ladas & Parry. A member of the New York Bar Association, he was an internationally renowned patent attorney. Also an accomplished artis
 SARTORIUS-John M. Of Quogue, New York, formerly of Tenafly, New Jersey, died on March 23, 1998 after a long illness in his 78th year. He is survived by his devoted wife Nancy, four sons, John, Jr., Peter, David and Scott, a sister Beverly VanderPoel, a brother Robert Sartorius. He was prede
 SCHULMAN-Steven Glenn. Beloved husband of Laura. Devoted father of Matthew and Stephanie. Adored son of Marlene and Jerry. Cherished brother of Mindy and Jon, Jeffrey and Diane. Darling son-in-law of Esther and Herman Ching. Brother-in-law of Norton. Dear uncle of Melissa, Amanda and Carly.
 SIMONS-James D. On March 27, 1998 after a long illness. Beloved son of Anna Lee Berini. Loving father of Janet and Joyce. Adoring grandfather of Scott. Dear brother of John. Writer and historian. Family will receive Sunday 7-9 PM. Service Monday 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Ams
 STEINBERG-Sam ''Nat.'' Of Miami Beach, FL, formerly of Williamsburg, Brooklyn. On March 27, 1998, age 95. Husband of May. He was predeceased by his first wife, Ethel. Foster father of Ernest and Herta Gottschalk and grandfather of Mark and Mathew Steinberg. Member of Knesset Israel of Miami
 TAYLOR-PARKOFF-Ruth. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a highly respected member of the community, a dedicated Zionist and supporter of Jewish institutions here and in Israel, beloved wife of Norm Taylor and mother of A. Richard (and Debra) Parkoff and David (and Linda) Pa
 TORCZYNER-Harry. Order of Leopold, Belgium, in his 88th year, son of the late Numa and Rachel Torczyner, precious husband of Marcelle Siva, adored father of Evelyn Musher Shechter and Denise Wiseman, respected fatherin-law of Samuel Shechter and Sam Wiseman, doting grandfather of Joshua and
 BURMAN-Herman Joseph, M.D. 7/14/1898-3/30/1988. A graduate of Fordham University and Tufts Medical School, Dr. Burman was Director of the Department of Otolaryngology and Bronchoesophagology at Harlem Hospital and was a consultant at several New York City hospitals. He held several academic
 DRAYER-Mary Jane. On March 30, it will be fifty years since you left. You are always in my thoughts and, most often, in my expressions and sense of being. For all the times I didn't say I love you, Mom, I say it now. Sleep well and tell God I thank Him for making Mary Jane my mother. See yo
 Beverley Cross, the playwright, librettist and writer who devoted himself in equal measure to his own career and to that of the great love of his life, Dame Maggie Smith, died here on March 20. He was 66. The Times of London said he had recently been treated for a series of aneurysm
 Dean E. McHenry, an academic pioneer who turned his vision of a campus with a redwoods vista, a Pacific view and a no-fault grading system into a counterculture magnet and an educational gem, died on March 17 at a hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 87 and the founding chancellor of the U
 James Lee Hymes Jr., a national authority on early education who taught generations of parents and teachers how to raise and teach preschoolers and first graders, died on March 6 at El Camino Hospital in Cupertino, Calif. He was 84 and lived in the Cupertino retirement community of the Foru
 ELKIN-David B. Beloved husband to Margot Turitz Elkin, loving father of Charlotte and Sam Elkin, cherished brother of Ethel Elkin and devoted son-in-law to Zitha Turitz. David was an economist, former Vice President of W. R. Grace and Co, adjunct professor, and economic consultant. He grew 
 GROSS-Louis. Age 59, of Arlington, MA, on March 26, after a seven year fight against lymphoma and melanoma. Beloved husband of Patricia Hollander Gross. Loving brother of Lillian Ratner of Great Neck, LI, NY, and Jacob Gross of NYC. He was a graduate of the University of Chicago and had wor
 LUDLOW-Alden R., Jr. Of Lawrence, NY on March 26, 1998 at age 86. Husband of the late Mabel Whitman Ludlow. Son of the late Alden Rodney Ludlow and Alician Gamble Ludlow. Brother of the late Alicia Ludlow Cavanagh. He is survived by his sons Alden R. Ludlow, III and Eben W. Ludlow and grand
 MICHAEL-Kenneth S. Age 72. Husband of Jenny; father of Naomi and Aaron Mandelbaum, Jacob and Rochel Leah Michael, Daniel and Miriam Michael, Sheera and Michael Moffson. Adored ''Opa'' of Yossi, Esti, Avi Mandelbaum; Sori, Dina, Shoshana, Moshe, Simcha, Yehuda Leib, Aaron, Yisroel Meir, Chan
 SCHULMAN-Steven. After a heroic battle, Steven is finally at peace. He'll always shine down on us all with his inspiration, warmth and wit. Our hearts go out to his wonderful family. Nancy and Allen Susan and Clive Ellen and John SCHULMAN - Steven. Your freckles, smile and impish wa
 SIMONS-James D. On March 27, 1998 after a long illness. Beloved son of Anna Lee Berini. Loving father of Janet and Joyce. Adoring grandfather of Scott. Dear brother of John. Writer and historian. Family will receive Sunday 7-9 PM. Service Monday 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Ams
 SOBEK-Joseph. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of Joe Sobek, for many years the tennis pro at Fairview. On behalf of all Fairview members, we wish to express our deepest condolences to his wife Nancy and family. Andrew J. Fran
 SOLOMON - Major General Robert, U.S. Army (ret). The West Point Jewish Chapel Fund mourns the loss of a colleague and ardent longtime supporter. ''General Bob'' was outstanding among many military and civilian leaders who helped make the Jewish Chapel at the United States Military Academy a
 TORCZYNER - Harry. Distin guished friend, advisor and counselor for Annals of Scholarship, an international journal on Art Practices and the Human Sciences in a Global Culture. Heartfelt sympathy to his family. Marie-Rose Logan, Editor and the Editorial Board TORCZYNER-Harry. The Wo
 Edmund Asbury Gullion, one of the country's most accomplished career ambassadors and former dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, where he trained the next generation of Foreign Officers, died in his sleep the night of March 17 at his home in Winchester, Mass
 Almost a half-century ago, Joe Sobek, frustrated that he could not find an indoor racquet sport he liked, designed a new racquet, found a ball of the right size and spring, and invented racquetball. Last Friday, he died at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut at age 79. The cause was c
 AKESON-Thomas F. On March 29, 1998 of Dix Hills, NY in his 64th Year. Beloved Husband of June M. (nee Bach). Devoted Father and Best Friend of Thomas C. and Scott M. Dear Brother of John W. Akeson, St. Petersburg, FL, Robert A. Akeson, St. James, NY, and Kenneth W. Akeson, Garden City, NY. 
 ASSEF-Morton. Age 72, died Mar. 30, 1998. Beloved son of the late Jennie Lassef. Devoted brother of Sylvia (Bibby) and Philip Korn, loving uncle of Richard Korn and Naomi and Dr. Stephen Syken and adored grand uncle of Shayna and Jenna Syken. Service Wednesday April 1, noon at Schwartz Brot
 CULBRETH-Marvin K. Age 72. Interior designer and illustrator died in Danbury Hospital on the 27th of March. Calling hours Wednesday between 6 and 8 P.M., at Kane Funeral, 41 Catoonah Street, Ridgefield, CT. Contributions in his memory may be made to High Watch Farm, P.O. Box 607, Kent, Conn
 ELKIN-David B. Beloved husband to Margot Turitz Elkin, loving father of Charlotte and Sam Elkin, cherished brother of Ethel Elkin and devoted son-in-law to Zitha Turitz. David was an economist, former Vice President of W. R. Grace and Co, adjunct professor, and economic consultant. He grew 
 FINKLE-Joel. Of New York City and Palm Beach, Florida, on March 29, 1998. Son of the late Benjamin and Hinda Finkle. Brother of Ann Odel and Edith Horwitt and the late Celia David and Mary Pollen. He is survived by his cherished wife Maria, loving daughter Joan Swirsky and son Jonathan Fink
 GORDON-Elliott, 64. Chairperson of Associate Degree Program of Pratt Manhattan. Survived by his wife Barbara, sons Dr. Cameron Gordon of Manhattan and Tony Gordon of Fort Myers, FL. Visiting hours April 2nd, 6-8 PM, Dimicelli Funeral Home, 182 Lexington Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donations
 GROOB-Martin. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife and to the entire bereaved family. Rabbi Dale Polakoff Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus David Werber, President GROOB-Martin. A dear man and a goo
 MICHAEL-Kenneth. We mourn the passing of Kenneth Michael, devoted friend and benefactor, son of our unforgettable first president, Rosi Michael, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Jenny and to the whole family. RE'UTH Rosa Strygler, President Ursula Merkin, Chairman       
 NANNI-Louis F. March 29, 1998. Loving husband of the late Ethel. Owner and proprietor of Nanni's Restaurant and Nanni Il Valletto, Institutions of Italian Cuisine. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him, especially his longtime and loyal staff. Friends may call Wednesday and Thursday
 OLMERT-Mordechai. We extend sincerest condolences to Ehud Olmert, Mayor of Jerusalem, on the loss of his beloved father. Mayor Olmert and Shaara Zedek Medical Center have shared a long-standing partnership dedicated to providing the people of Jerusalem with state-of-the-art-medical care. Ma
 TORCZYNER-Harry. Ariel United Israel Institute and American Friends of Ariel-Midrasha mourn the passing of Harry Torczyner, father of our devoted friend, supporter and ardent volunteer worker Evi Musher Shechter, wife of our former President and Chairman Board of Governors, Samuel D. Shecht
