 Dmitri S. Likhachev, a Russian literary scholar revered as a guardian of national culture and a voice of reason and moral authority, died today in a hospital in St. Petersburg. He was 92 years old. During the past decade of turbulent change in Russia, Mr. Likhachev, a gentle, elegan
 Ernst Einstein, a founding partner in Einstein Moomjy Inc., the carpet-store chain, died Wednesday in a hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 76. Mr. Einstein died of cancer and had Parkinson's disease, according to his son Gilles. Mr. Einstein and his twin brother, Ted, were born
 Gustavo Leigh Guzman, who was a key figure in Chile's four-man military junta led by Gen. Augusto Pinochet but who later broke with the junta, died Wednesday at the air force hospital in Santiago, Chile. He was 79. General Leigh, as head of the Chilean Air Force, ordered the bombing
 Thomas O. Foster, 49, a philanthropist, amateur racing driver and executive of Foster Poultry Farms, one of the nation's largest privately held businesses, died Sept. 22 at his home in Hickman, Calif., a farming hamlet in the San Joaquin Valley. He had diabetes and related heart problems, a
 Charles A. Federer Jr., who six decades ago combined two money-losing journals, The Sky and The Telescope, into what became a successful and influential magazine for amateur astronomers, died on Tuesday in Mystic, Conn. He was 90 and lived in the nearby town of Stonington. Mr. Feder
 Dr. David Platt Rall, a cancer specialist and a leader in environmental health research, died on Tuesday in Bordeaux, France. He lived in Washington and was 73. The cause was injuries suffered in an automobile accident 10 days earlier. During almost 50 years as a researcher,
 Dr. John J. Conley, a New York surgeon who made important contributions to the treatment of cancers of the head and neck, died on Sept. 21 in a hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived on the Upper West Side. Dr. Conley, an otolaryngologist, developed operations for improving the 
 The guitarist Sal Salvador, a  warm-toned be-bop improviser who performed with Stan Kenton, Bill Evans, Phil Woods and other canonical jazz figures, died at a medical rehabilitation center in Stamford, Conn., on Sept. 22. He was 73 and lived in Stamford. He died of cancer, said his 
 Ted Arison, who parlayed a single used cruise ship into Carnival Cruise Lines and other holdings, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Tel Aviv. He was 75 years old. Considered the godfather of the modern cruise industry, Mr. Arison gave up his American citizenship in 199
 Akio Morita, the co-founder of the Sony Corporation who personified Japan's rise from postwar rubble to industrial riches and became the unofficial ambassador of its business community to the world, died today in Tokyo. He was 78. He died of pneumonia, the company said. He had been 
 Akio Morita, the co-founder of the Sony Corporation who personified Japan's rise from postwar rubble to industrial riches and became the unofficial ambassador of its business community to the world, died on Sunday in Tokyo. He was 78. Mr. Morita died of pneumonia, according to Sony.
 Bernard Buffet, a French painter whose barren landscapes, harsh still lifes, gaunt religious scenes and sad circus clowns brought him early fame and fortune but little enduring  critical esteem, died yesterday at his home in the Var region of southern France. He was 71. He was a sui
 Jerald C. Brauer, who as dean of the University of Chicago's Divinity School helped build the institution into an internationally known center for the study of theology, died on Sept. 26 at his home in Chicago. He was 78. The cause was leukemia, the divinity school said. Dr.
 Tom Joe, an expert on Government antipoverty programs and a recipient in 1986 of the MacArthur Fellows award, died on Saturday at his home in Arlington, Va. Mr. Joe, the director of the Center for the Study of Social Policy here, was 64 and had been undergoing treatment for cancer. 
 Art Farmer, one of the more important second-generation be-bop musicians, an improviser who could say a great deal in a few notes on the trumpet and fluegelhorn and later on his own hybrid instrument, the ''flumpet,'' died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan and Vienna.
 Francis C. Turner, often called the chief engineer of the Interstate System of highways that redrew the map of America, died on Saturday at a hospice in Goldsboro, N.C. He was 90. Mr. Turner was the only person to rise through the ranks to head the Federal Highway Administration; he
 Martin S. Davis, the fiery executive who reshaped the unwieldy conglomerate Gulf and Western Industries into the entertainment and publishing giant Paramount Communications, died Monday in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, said Jerry She
 Alex Lowe, an American climber whose versatility and tenacity in pushing the limits earned him a reputation as perhaps the country's finest all-around mountaineer, was presumed killed on Tuesday after vanishing in a massive avalanche on Shisha Pangma in Tibet. He was 40 and lived in Bozeman
 Leonard S. Shoen, who created the multibillion-dollar do-it-yourself moving industry in 1945 when he welded together a trailer, painted it an attention-grabbing orange and called his little company U-Haul, died on Monday morning after he drove his car into a utility pole near Las Vegas, Nev
 Edward C. Banfield, a professor emeritus of government at Harvard University whose work on urban policy and the causes of poverty gave him a reputation as a brilliant maverick, died Sept. 30 at his summer home in Vermont. He was 83 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Mr. Banfield, born on
 Gorilla Monsoon, one of the most famous athlete-entertainers ever to don tights and climb into the professional wrestling ring, died on Wednesday at his home in Willingboro, N.J. He was 62. He had long suffered from diabetes and heart ailments, said a close friend, Bill Apter, the e
 Sir de Villiers Graaff, who led South Africa's weak and troubled parliamentary opposition for two decades during the apartheid era, died on Monday at his farm outside Cape Town. He was 85. Sir de Villiers, who was nicknamed ''Sir Div'' and ''Div,'' had an ''impeccable Afrikaner back
 Weldon W. Case, the former chairman and chief executive of the Alltel Corporation, died on Sept. 30 at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 78 and lived in Boca Raton. The cause was heart failure, an Alltel spokeswoman said. Mr. Case was born in Hudson, Ohio, whe
 Daniel Griffiths, a former dean of the New York University School of Education who changed its approach from anecdotal teaching to the use of modern research methods, died Oct. 2. He was 82 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He suffered a heart attack on the golf course at the Scarsdale G
 Gen. Bruce K. Holloway, who shot down 13 Japanese planes in World War II flying a propeller fighter, then oversaw the giant jet bombers of the Strategic Air Command, America's nuclear strike force, a quarter-century later, died on Sept. 30 at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 87. Gen
 John McLendon, a Hall of Fame basketball coach at the college and professional levels who studied under the sport's founder, Dr. James Naismith, died early yesterday morning at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 84. McLendon died of cancer of the pancreas, his wife, Joanna,
 Paul Petzoldt, a pioneer of American mountaineering and a wilderness educator who founded the National Outdoor Leadership School, died on Wednesday in Topsham, Me. He was 91 and lived in nearby South Casco, Me. A rugged individualist who influenced climbing in the United States for 
 Clement L. Markert, a noted developmental biologist whose decision as a teen-ager to battle the forces of Generalissimo Francisco Franco in the Spanish Civil War cast a cloud over his career during the McCarthy era, died on Oct. 1. He was 82. Dr. Markert died at a hospice near his h
 Lee Richardson, an actor whose career spanned more than four decades of stage, film and television work, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was cardiac arrest after complications from a perforated ulcer, said his daughter, Rachel Richardson Lyons. 
 Former Justice Morris Pashman of the New Jersey Supreme Court, whose opinions touched on areas from freedom of the press to the rights of the mentally handicapped, died on Oct. 3 at a hospital in New York City. He was 87 and lived in Clifton, N.J. Justice Pashman served in the state
 Robert G. L. Waite, a Williams College historian who set off a debate by bringing the psychoanalytic approach to books about Hitler, died on Monday while visiting his son Peter in Glastonbury, Conn. He was 80 and lived in Williamstown, Mass. Dr. Waite was one of the earliest and str
 Sir Nigel Broackes, a real estate developer who controlled the Ritz Hotel in London as chairman of Trafalgar House and was one of Britain's most successful young entrepreneurs during the 1960's and 1970's, died on Sept. 28. He was 65 and lived in Oxfordshire. His relatives described
 Dr. Walter Bergman, an indefatigable civil rights advocate who was savagely beaten by members of the Ku Klux Klan in 1961 as one of the first Freedom Riders and won compensation for the attack from the F.B.I. more than two decades later, died on Sept. 29 in a nursing home in Grand Rapids, M
 Dr. Sidney H. Silverman, a specialist in obstetrics and gynecology who practiced for 45 years in Brooklyn and Queens and on Long Island, died on Sept. 27 at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 75 and had lived in Florida since retiring in 1990. The cause of death was not immediately
 Larry Wynn, a lyricist who wrote the words for the 1941 novelty hit ''Five Guys Named Moe,'' died on  Sept. 28 at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 89 and lived in Cliffside Park, N.J. Mr. Wynn's lyrics for ''Five Guys'' were combined with music by Jerry Bresler, and the song
 Milt Jackson, the jazz vibraphonist who was a member of the Modern Jazz Quartet for 40 years and was one of the premier improvisers in jazz with a special brilliance at playing blues, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.       
 Otto Storch, a magazine art director and advertising photographer who introduced an expressive typographic style to women's magazines as part of a revolution in editorial design, died on Sept. 29 at a hospital in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 86. In the late 1950's Mr. Storch wa
 Dr. Sydney E. Salmon, a cancer researcher and founder of the Arizona Cancer Center in Tucson, died on Wednesday at his home in Tucson. He was 63. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Laurie Young, a spokeswoman for the center. In the 1970's, Dr. Salmon and Dr. Anne W. Hambu
 The Rev. Bruce Ritter, who founded a shelter for runaways in 1969 and then resigned under pressure as its president in 1990 after being accused of financial and sexual improprieties, died Thursday at his farmhouse near Decatur, N.Y. He was 72. Benjamin L. Meyers, the director of the
 George Forrest, the songwriter who collaborated with Robert Wright on the words and music for the songs ''Stranger in Paradise'' and ''Baubles, Bangles and Beads,'' died on Sunday in Miami, where he lived. He was 84. Mr. Wright, who was Mr. Forrest's writing partner for the last 72 
 Louis F. Claiborne, a deputy solicitor general who argued more than 60 cases on behalf of the Government before the Supreme Court and was noted for the elegance of his legal briefs, died on Wednesday at his home in Wivenhoe, Essex, England. He was 72 and also had a home in Nerja, Spain.    
 Dr. Marvin G. Freid, who was a dentist for more than 50 years, mostly in Manhattan, died on Friday at a hospital in Cortlandt Manor, N.Y. He was 89. Dr. Freid practiced dentistry from 1933 to 1984, including three years in the Army during World War II. Marvin George Freid, who lived
 Morris West, who used his power as a storyteller and fascination with Roman Catholic faith and morals to spin more than two dozen novels, many of them best sellers like ''The Devil's Advocate'' and ''The Shoes of the Fisherman,'' died on Saturday in Sydney, Australia, where he lived. He was
 David A. Huffman, who developed a fundamental mathematical technique in the early years of computer science that remains vital to data storage and transmission, died on Thursday in a hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Santa Cruz. He died after a 10-month battle wi
 The Rev. Bruce Ritter, who founded a shelter for runaways in 1969 and then resigned under pressure as its president in 1990 after being accused of financial and sexual improprieties, died Thursday at his farmhouse near Decatur, N.Y. He was 72. Benjamin L. Meyers, the director of the
 Wilt Chamberlain, whose size, strength and intimidation made him probably the most dominant player in basketball history, and whose 100-point game stands as one of the towering records in sport, was found dead yesterday in his home in the Bel-Air section of Los Angeles. He was 63. J
 Frank Frost, one of the foremost Delta blues harmonica players of his generation, died on Tuesday at his home on the street named in his honor in Helena, Ark. He was 63. The cause was cardiac arrest, said Otha Bush, deputy coroner of Phillips County, Ark. Born Frank Otis Fro
 Isaac B. (Ike) Grainger, former president of the United States Golf Association who was one of the country's leading authorities on the rules of golf, died on Tuesday at his home in Wilmington. He was 104. His nephew, Walker Taylor, recalled that a former U.S.G.A. president once tol
 James M. Logan, who won the Medal of Honor as an Army sergeant in World War II by single-handedly capturing a German machine-gun position in the first hours of the landing at Salerno, Italy, died on Saturday at a hospital in Longview, Tex. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said the R
 Martin Bartner, a former high school sports stringer who became publisher of The Star-Ledger of Newark and helped build the newspaper into the largest in the state, died Sunday at his home in Verona, N.J. He was 69. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said Donald E. Newhouse, pr
 Sam Cohen, who for decades occupied the No. 1 position at Zabar's salmon-slicing counter on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, becoming a star of the trade and a beloved neighborhood fixture, died Saturday of lymphoma in a hospital in Ridgewood, N.J., his daughter said. He was believed to be
 Dr. Earl Alison Evans, a pioneering biochemist who built up one of the nation's leading biochemistry departments at the University of Chicago, died on Oct. 5 at a hospital in Chicago, where he lived. He was 89. Dr. Evans, a professor emeritus and former chairman of the department of
 Frederick Christopher Belen, a Washington lawyer who helped speed the work of the country's growing post office through the establishment of regional distribution centers and the five-digit ZIP code,  died on Wednesday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. An Arlington resident, he was 95.    
 Julius K. Nyerere, the founding father of Tanzania who used East Africa as a pulpit from which to spread his socialist philosophy worldwide, died yesterday in London. He was about 77 and was being treated for leukemia, and he suffered a major stroke last week. An uncharacteristicall
 Marvin Wood, who coached a tiny high school's basketball team to the Indiana state championship, portrayed in the 1986 movie ''Hoosiers,'' died on Wednesday in South Bend., Ind. He was 71. Woods's wife, Mary Lou, said the cause was lymphoma. The team's feat was legendary in 
 Richard B. Shull, an actor whose Walter Matthau-like face was familiar from television and film and who was portraying D. W. DeWitt in the current Broadway production of ''Epic Proportions,'' died yesterday in Manhattan at the age of 70. His wife, Deborah Thomas Shull, said the cause was a 
 Thomas H. Lake, the former president of Eli Lilly & Company, the multinational pharmaceutical concern, and former chairman of the Lilly Endowment, one of the largest private foundations in the nation, died on Sunday at his home in Carmel, Ind. He was 80. The cause was melanoma, said
 Donald H. Riddle, who as president of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice changed the institution's curriculum to produce ''educated cops,'' died on Monday at an assisted-care center in Newtown, Pa. He was 78. He had lived in Newtown and died after a long illness, said Richard 
 Irving Siders, a producer who exported the sights and sounds of Broadway to theaters across the nation, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. The son of a mechanic and a shopkeeper, Mr. Siders grew up in Boston before hitting
 J. Franklin Hyde, a chemist who decades ago turned a useless sticky goo into a common family of industrial raw materials called silicones and who also invented a process for making an almost-pure glass used today in fiber optic technology, died Monday at his home on Marco Island, Fla. He wa
 Josef Locke, a tenor whose singing of traditional sentimental Irish songs brought tears to the eyes of audiences in Ireland and Britain in the 1940's and  50's and whose career was portrayed in the 1992 film ''Hear My Song,'' died today in a hospital in Clane in County Kildare, where he liv
 Yosef Burg, a seminal Israeli political figure who was a Cabinet Minister for 35 years as a head of the religious Zionist movement, died early today at Shaare Tsedek Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 90. Dr. Burg, a doctor of philosophy and an ordained rabbi, was last in public in July,
 Jean Shepherd, the New York radio raconteur whose rambling jazzlike monologues on the air puzzled many but delighted fans over two decades, died yesterday. He was believed to be at least 70. The Associated Press quoted his friend and business adviser, Irwin Zwilling, as saying he di
 Leo Lionni, who introduced an introspective sensibility to children's literature through the metaphorical characters Frederick, Swimmy and Little Blue and Little Yellow, died on Monday at his home near Radda in the Chianti district of Italy. He was 89. Mr. Lionni was an artist, maga
 William Gottlieb, a real estate investor who was believed to be one of the largest owners of property in the West Village of Manhattan, died Oct. 5, according to The Villager, a neighborhood newspaper. He was 64. He had recently suffered a stroke, said William Shutkind, an engineer 
 Jean Shepherd, the New York radio raconteur and author whose rambling jazzlike monologues on the air puzzled many but delighted fans over two decades, died Saturday . He was believed to be in his 70's. Irwin Zwilling, his friend and business adviser, said in a prepared statement tha
 Jim Jensen, a gravelly voiced and popular WCBS-TV news anchor and news reporter who was a major figure in New York television for years, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 73 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said fo
 Dr. John G. Clark, a Harvard psychiatrist whose study of new religious sects in the 1970's raised public awareness of the overwhelming influence of some groups over their members, died on Oct. 7 at a nursing home in Belmont, Mass. He was 73 and had been suffering from a long illness, his fa
 Richard Hough, a historian and novelist whose prolific career included books on Captain Bligh and a biography of the British war hero Earl Mountbatten, died on Oct. 7. He was 77 and had homes in London and Gloucestershire, England. Mr. Hough, the author of more than 90 books, built 
 Sam Renick, one of the country's leading jockeys half a century ago and later a pioneer in racing television and one of the founders of the Jockeys' Guild, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. John Giovanni, executive director of the Jockeys' Guild, said that
 IT has become one of the enduring rituals on Capitol Hill: A bill to overhaul the nation's campaign finance laws is being debated on the floor of the Senate. Its advocates and their many allies on the editorial pages are in full cry, demanding change for the sake of a cleaner, bette
 Vernon de Tar, the organist and choirmaster at the Episcopal Church of the Ascension in Greenwich Village for 42 years and a teacher at the Union Theological Seminary, Yale University and the Juilliard School, died on Oct. 7 in Kennett Square, Pa., where he lived. He was 94. Mr. de 
 Harold Clarence Passer, an economic forecaster for business and the Government, including the Nixon White House, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Portsmouth, N.H., where he retired in 1983. He was 77. Dr. Passer served as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs from 1969 t
 James E. Williams, who as a patrol-boat commander in the Vietnam War won the Medal of Honor and became one of the most highly decorated sailors in Navy history, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Florence, S.C. He was 68. Mr. Williams, who lived in Palm Coast, Fla., suffered a heart
 Pierre Moulin, who with his business partner, Pierre LeVec, created the Pierre Deux fabric shops and the charming Provencal mix of colorful cotton, glazed tile and antique armoires known as the Pierre Deux look, died Sunday at his Greenwich Village apartment. He was 73. He died afte
 Sam Kovenetsky, a longtime labor leader in New York, died Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kovenetsky was born in Romania on Aug. 12, 1912, and came to the United States in 1920. He left school in the ninth grade and held sever
 Calvin Griffith, who in his three decades as owner of the Washington Senators and their successor, the Minnesota Twins, personified a lost age when baseball teams were run as tight-spending family businesses, died yesterday at a hospital in Melbourne, Fla. He was 87. ''Calvin was on
 Former Prime Minister Jack Lynch, who declined to send Irish troops to fight the British police in Northern Ireland at the start of the sectarian violence there 30 years ago, died today at a hospital in Dublin. He was 82 and lived in Cork, his native city, south of Dublin. His restr
 James Abbe, a photographer who became an American folk art expert and dealer, died on Oct. 7 at his home in Brookville, N.Y. He was 87. Mr. Abbe, who was born in Lynchburg, Va., began his career in the early 1930's as an assistant to his father, the pioneering photographer James Abb
 Stanley L. Dritz, the last of four brothers whose gadgets made their family name a household word for generations of people who sew, died Saturday at the White Plains Hospital. He was 88. Mr. Dritz had lived in Palm Beach, Fla., since his retirement more than 30 years ago. W
 Benno C. Schmidt, the right-hand man of the financier John Hay Whitney and a pioneering venture capitalist who became an important backer of biotechnology ventures, a New York civic leader and the head of the Federal Government's war on cancer, died yesterday at his home in New York. He was
 Donald Macy Liddell Jr., a retired investment adviser, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Liddell was chairman of Templeton, Dobbrow & Vance Inc., the investment firm, from 1960 to 1974. The firm was created in 1940 by Sir John Templeton, the 
 Ross Parmenter, a former music news editor of The New York Times and the author of several books on Mexico, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. A member of the music staff of The Times from 1940 until his retirement in 1964, Mr. Parmenter wrote news, features, critic
 Bernie Privin, a big-band trumpeter who performed and recorded with Tommy Dorsey, Benny Goodman, Artie Shaw, Louis Armstrong and others, died on Oct. 8 in White Plains Hospital in White Plains, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Hartsdale. The cause was colon cancer, said Elwyn Walshe, a f
 H. Stuart Hughes, a historian who wrote extensively on the intellectual history of modern Europe, died on Thursday in San Diego, where he lived as a professor emeritus of the University of California at San Diego. He was 83. Dr. Hughes wrote 12 books -- six  on intellectual and cult
 Jack Bromwich, who won the Australian Open singles championship twice in a tennis career that was interrupted by World War II, died earlier this week in Geelong, Australia. The ambidextrous Bromwich, who won 17 major doubles titles and was a prolific representative of Australia in Davis Cup
 Joao Cabral de Melo Neto, one of the century's most distinguished and influential poets in the Portuguese language, died here on Oct. 9 after a long illness. He was 79. In a career that spanned more than 50 years and inspired two generations of younger Brazilian writers, Mr. Cabral 
 John E. Sanders, a geologist and a longtime professor at Barnard College who was also a major figure 20 years ago in a plan to clean up the Hudson River, died Wednesday at a hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 73. The cause of death has not been determined, said his daughter, Ste
 Lord Grey of Naunton, the last official representative of the Queen of England in Northern Ireland, died on Sunday in Naunton, Gloucestershire. He was 89. From 1968 to 1973, Lord Grey was Governor of Northern Ireland, the British province. After that the post was abolished and Brita
 Dr. Nicholas C. Metropolis, a mathematician who was one of the initial team of scientists involved with the Manhattan Project and who later became a pioneer in computer science, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 84. Dr. Metropolis was best known for his c
 Roscoe L. Egger Jr., a commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service in the Reagan Administration, died on Oct. 14 at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 79 and lived in Green Valley, Ariz. He died after angioplasty to open  arteries in his heart, said his wife, Betty.        
 Clayton Williams, who used his experience as a criminal and a convict to help others like himself rejoin society, died on Oct. 14 in a Bronx hospital. He was 65. He died of complications from emphysema, kidney failure and heart disease, his sister Rosalie Knight said. Mr. Wi
 H. Stuart Hughes, a prolific historian, peace advocate and political gadfly who ran for the United States Senate against Edward M. Kennedy in 1962, died on Thursday in San Diego, where he lived as a professor emeritus of the University of California at San Diego. He was 83. Dr. Hugh
 James Sterling Moran, who became a legend in the publicity business with stunts like selling a refrigerator to an Alaskan Eskimo, died on Monday at a retirement home in Englewood, N.J. He was 91. His life might be described by two symbols: the exclamation point and the dollar sign. 
 Robert Blanchon, a conceptual and video artist whose work often dealt with the subject of gay identity and AIDS, died on Oct. 4 in Chicago. He was 34 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from AIDS, said the artist Mary Ellen Carroll, a friend. Mr. Blanchon, 
 Robert J. Quinn, the longtime director of NBC's ''Tonight'' show when Johnny Carson was host, died on Thursday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Quinn, known as Bobby, was the director of the show from 1968 to 1992, when Mr. 
 Sigmund Diamond, a Columbia professor of sociology and history who studied American business titans, female industrial workers and Federal Bureau of Investigation information gathering, died on Oct. 14 in Norwich, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Salem, Conn. The cause was esophageal ca
 Van Arsdale France, the man who wrote the manual for teaching Disneyland employees precisely how to smile, died on Oct. 13 at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 87 and a resident of Santa Ana, Calif. Mr. France brought a background in industrial relations to Disneyland, whic
 Walter Stone, the chief writer for the original ''Honeymooners'' television series starring Jackie Gleason, died on Wednesday in Miami Beach. He was 79 and lived on Bay Harbor Island, Fla. Mr. Stone began his career as a writer for the Robert Q. Lewis radio show on CBS. He also wrot
 Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, the last of the Rockefeller Republicans and an increasingly isolated voice of internationalism and bipartisanship in his party, died on Sunday. Senator Chafee died of heart failure at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., a Washi
 Even casual fans could recognize Payne Stewart on the golf course, with the trademark knickers, or plus fours, that he wore during competition. But beyond his colorful apparel, Stewart was recognized and appreciated for his talent and his competitive spirit. Demonstrative and outgoi
 Wayne E. Oates, the tireless writer of 57 books dealing with the relationship between theology and psychiatry, and the man who thought up the word ''workaholic,'' died on Thursday at a Louisville hospital. He was 82. In 1971, Dr. Oates wrote ''Confessions of a Workaholic: The Facts 
 David H. Hirsch, a professor emeritus of English and American literature and Judaic studies at Brown University, died on Oct. 19 at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 69 and lived in Providence, R.I. He had been hospitalized for several weeks for intestinal surge
 Hoyt Axton, the amiably growly singer, songwriter and movie actor who wrote the Three Dog Night hit ''Joy to the World,'' died yesterday at his ranch in Victor, Mont., The Associated Press reported. He was 61 and recently suffered two heart attacks. Mr. Axton's songs often had a wry
 Luciano Soprani, a proponent of the slouchy, tailored look that dominated Italian fashion in the early 1980's, died on Saturday at a hospital in Milan. He was 53. Beppe Modenese, head of the Camera Nazaionale, which organizes Italy's fashion shows, said Mr. Soprani had been ill with
 Msgr. Jeremiah P. Monahan, who as chancellor of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York served as steward of the church's secular affairs, including financial matters, construction projects and administration, died Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. The chancellor, who was 65, en
 Andras Hegedus, a former Prime Minister of Hungary whose political odyssey transformed him from a dogmatic Stalinist apparatchik into an outspoken -- and barely tolerated -- dissenter, died on Saturday. He was 76. Reporting from Budapest, The Associated Press said he had a heart ail
 Gerald H. Trautman, a retired chairman, president and chief executive of the Greyhound Corporation, died Monday at a hospital in Phoenix, where he lived. He was 87. In 1966, Mr. Trautman, a lawyer, took over the struggling bus company and built it largely through acquisitions in the
 The Rev. Leonard E. Boyle, the former keeper of manuscripts and chief librarian of the Vatican Library, who was dismissed from his post in 1997, died on Monday in Rome. He was 75. Father Boyle died of cancer, said Ambrogio Piazzoni, vice prefect of the Vatican Library. The l
 Robert Edward Blum, a retired business executive and civic leader who was an early problem solver for Lincoln Center, died Friday at his home in Salisbury, Conn. He was 100. A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Blum graduated from Yale University in 1921, and the following year joined Abraham 
 Abraham Polonsky, a director and screenwriter who was an early Hollywood master of film noir and who worked under many disguises after being blacklisted in the McCarthy era, died on Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 88. His movies included ''Force of Evil,'' a 1948 film a
 George J. Hill 3d, a co-founder of the Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos advertising agency in Boston, died Friday at his home in Dedham, Mass. He was 66. The cause was prostate cancer, according to a statement from his wife, Virginia Hill. Mr. Hill, who was known as Jay, 
 James Velez, a medical riddle who inexplicably scratched himself to the point of self-mutilation and who was the center of one of the most ambitious attempts to attain an independent life for a profoundly disabled individual, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 25 and lived
 Rafael Alberti, one of Spain's most popular poets and the last member of the ''Generation of 1927,'' a group of artists whose ranks included the poet Federico Garcia Lorca and the film director Luis Bunuel, died today at his home in El Puerto de Santa Maria, in southern Spain. He was 96.   
 Dr. Theodor H. Benzinger, a medical researcher who invented the ear thermometer and a device to measure calorie loss, died on Tuesday at a retirement home in Bethesda, Md. He was 94. Dr. Benzinger worked at the Naval Medical Research Institute in Bethesda from 1947 to 1970. He studi
 Frank DeVol, the composer of more than 50 film scores along with such familiar television tunes as ''The Brady Bunch'' song, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Lafayette, Calif. He was 88. Mr. De Vol was one of Hollywood's most prodigious composer-arranger-conductors, winning re
 Dr. George Edward Valley Jr., an emeritus professor of physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who helped build the country's radar defenses and was Chief Scientist of the Air Force, died on Oct. 16 at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 86 and lived in Concord, Mass.      
 J. Howard Edgerton, who decades ago built the California Federal Savings and Loan Association into the nation's largest savings institution, died Oct. 14 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Edgerton, a lawyer, joined the Railway Mutual Building and Loan Association i
 Julio Martinez, a former drug addict who helped found the Phoenix House and Project Return programs for addicts and who eventually became the director of New York State's drug treatment programs, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 55 and lived in the Bronx. Th
 Dr. Robert L. Mills, a physicist who made major contributions to the study of subatomic particles, died on Wednesday at his summer home in East Charleston, Vt. He was 72. The cause was prostate cancer, said a statement from Ohio State University, where Dr. Mills taught for 39 years.
 Francis Whitaker, a blacksmith who never shod a horse but who helped preserve the 3,000-year-old craft of molding iron and elevated it to the level of an art, died Oct. 23 at a hospital in Glenwood Springs, Colo. He was 92. Before his own proficiency and that of the hundreds he woul
 Kenneth MacKenzie, an American dancer with Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes in the 1940's and a star of one of that troupe's most controversial productions, died on Sept. 23 at his  home in New Hope, Pa. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said his son,  Matthew. A native of C
