 Coleman A. Young, the combative, tart-tongued former union organizer who became the first black Mayor of Detroit when he was elected in 1973 and then went on to run the city for a record 20 years, died on Saturday at Sinai Hospital in Detroit. He was 79. The cause was respiratory fa
 ASKIN-Michael. 45 years old, General Manager, Hampton Hills Golf & Country Club. It is with great sadness that we inform you of the passing of our General Manager, Michael Askin. Michael's courageous three-and-ahalf month fight with cancer ended at 4:30 AM on Sunday, November 30. Michael be
 GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. What a loss, that remarkable man. Incomparable physician and insightful friend. His patients had the privilege of being cared for by the best of the best and knew the blessings of his unfailing concern and wisdom. To his beloved family and colleagues, this patient send
 HAMEL-Roland M. Beloved husband of Evelyn; loving father of Lynne, Francine and Sueanne. Cherished father-in-law of Mark, Richard and Edward. Adored grandfather of Kimberly, Bradley, Tracy, Troy, Blake, Jenna, Sheila and Randall, Elyssa, Mariel and Morris. Dear brother of Shirley Miller and
 MAJOR-William P. Died peacefully on November 29, aged 93. He was for 31 years Postmaster of Bergenfield, NJ, and a leading member of many civic organizations there; a Director of the Bergenfield National Bank and its successor banks; a loyal alumnus of Colgate, Columbia and NYU, and a faith
 PRESSER-Hyman. On November 28, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Frances; devoted father of Barry. He will be missed dearly.       
 STADER-Ernest. Adored husband of the late Else; beloved father of Eva and Edith. Cherished grandfather of Mia and Katia. Died peacefully at home on November 28, 1997, in his 99th year. Funeral arrangements were private.       
 UNGERLEIDER-Peter. The officers, directors and staff of the Dorot Foundation mourn the loss of our President, Peter Ungerleider. Our condolences and sympathy extend to all of his family and friends, and especially to his wife Kathrin, his sister Jeane, and his brothers Andrew and Steven. In
 WALTZER-Jack. Our father was a man of exceptional insight and empathy. He had more energy and vitality than most men half his age, and he was an eager and hearty participant in life-always welcoming opportunities and embracing challenges. His lust for life never flagged. His strength of cha
 STONE-Dr. Thomas Michael. Born 7/1/47. Died at his home in Manhattan 10/7/97. Memorial service 12/13/97 at 2PM, St. Malachi Church, 239 West 49 Street, NYC.       
 Mort Pye, who in his 31 years as editor of The Star-Ledger of Newark won praise for using the paper to promote the good in New Jersey and criticism for sometimes ignoring the bad, died yesterday at his home in Tewksbury, N.J. Mr. Pye was 79 and the cause of death was not immediately
 ACKELL-Joseph J. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the death of Joseph J. Ackell, Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Northville Industries. Joe was a former associate, as well as our client and
 APSEY-Lawrence S. Born in Cambridge, MA on November 14, 1902, passed away November 30, 1997. Lawrence is survived by his son Peter of Fresno, CA, grandsons Curtis and Louis Apsey and Mark and Keith Moulton and two great-granddaughters. After a distinguished legal career with the U.S. Govern
 AUTET-Ludovic. On November 28, 1997. Survived by his beloved son, Cedric, his mother, Germaine, and his brother, Bernard. Funeral Mass will be held at the Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, Lexington Ave at 66 St, Wednesday, December 3, at 1PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may
 BODNER-Arthur. Age 63, on November 29, 1997, of Franklin Lakes, NJ. Survived by his wife, Lois; his children, Mary and Chuck Bodner, and Leslie and Paul Korus; his sister, Carolyn Ganzer; his grandchildren, Michael, Adam, Matthew and Rachel. Services were Monday, at Robert Schoem's Menorah 
 COX-Ronald L. On November 26 at age 64. Of Sarasota, Florida, Union City, N.J. and Bennington, VT. Survived by his companion Russell Bagley, mother Arlene, brother Norbert, sister Catherine. Mr. Cox was a well known antiques dealer, President of Four Corners East, Inc. From the onset of the
 FISHER-Harold. 71. On December 1, passed peacefully in his sleep. Beloved husband of Rhoda Cooper Fisher. Devoted father of Amy Kelly and Donna Fisher. Dear brother of Elizabeth Schwartz, Cherished Grandpa of Molly Rose Kelly. Services Wednesday, 10:30am, Bennett Funeral Home, Scarsdale. In
 FOLLANDER-David. Popular and active Mason R.W., D.S.A., and Trustee affiliated with St. Cecile Lodge No. 568 F. & A.M., Franklin Lodge No. 447 F. & A.M., Midwood Lodge and Musicians Square Club. Laid to rest Sunday, November 30, 1997. Profound condolences to his family. He will be sorely mi
 FRIEND-Sidney L. The Board of Trustees, President David C. Chang, Chancellor George Bugliarello and the entire Polytechnic University community offer our deepest condolences to Trustee William L. Friend, Director of Bechtel Group Inc., over the passing of his father, Sidney L. Friend. Mr. F
 GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the loss of their cherished colleague and friend. During his tenure at Mount Sinai, extending over four decades, Dr. Gilbert pioneered many teaching activities including the establishment of the first Women's Health Fellowship
 GOLDSTEIN-Marvin. The Officers and Board of the American Friends of the Hebrew University deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Marvin C. Goldstein of Atlanta. Dr. Goldstein was an honorary fellow of the University and a founder of the Hebrew University-Hadassah School of Dental Medicine. His con
 GOODHAND-Rev. Arthur Weedon, of West Lampeter TWP, PA. On December 1, 1997. Husband of Jeanette Myers Goodhand of 300 Willow Valley lakes Dr., Willow Street, PA. Formerly of New York, NY, Wilmington, Delaware, Stamford, CT, and Charlotte, NC, in his 82nd year. Private graveside services wil
 KANDEL-Morton H. The Directors and staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Morton H. Kandel. Mr. Kandel was an active member of the BJE Board for over 40 years and made significant contributions to the agency and Jewish education i
 KLEIN-Howard L. The Jewish Museum staff, Board and Volunteer Association mourn the death of Howard Klein, long-time contributor to The Jewish Museum and honorary member of the Museum Council. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Lenore, an active member of the Volunteer Associ
 LEJUEZ-F. Kevin, 31. Of Secaucus, New Jersey died November 29, 1997. Beloved and devoted son of Fritz and Emily Lejuez and brother of Ian of Dallas, TX. He is also survived by his grandmothers, Edith Nicholls of Dalla s, Texas, Rosenda Lejuez of Aruba, and his beloved girlfriend, Eva Berg o
 MILLIKIN-John H. Age 88. Of Morristown, New Jersey. On Saturday, November 29th, 1997. Husband of Winifred (nee Castle). Father of Pamela M. Richards of Wilmington, De., Carter M. Frank of Hoboken, N.J. and John C. of Mendham, N.J. Brother of Helen Genereaux of Wilmington, DE. and Jane Abbot
 SAYDAH-Edward K. Husband of Lyra (nee Brzell), died Monday, December 1, 1997. A retired importer of embroidered linens, he moved from Brooklyn to Southbury, CT in 1981. Survived also by a son Charles E. Saydah of Monsey, NY, a daughter Marie L. Sherer of Middlebury, CT, a sister Lillian Say
 STADLER-Ernest. Adored husband of the late Else; beloved father of Eva and Edith. Cherished grandfather of Mia and Katia. Died peacefully at home on Nov 28, 1997, in his 99th year. Funeral arrangements were private.       
 STROLL-Milton. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights mourns the passing of our beloved member, Milton Stroll, and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife, Judith, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Philip Adler, President       
 THALER-Rabbi Richard. The leadership of Israel Bonds is saddened by the untimely passing of Rabbi Richard Thaler. Passionate supporter of Israel and a friend and leader of our organization, and both the Long Island and Greater New York campaigns. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. He 
 TRAINER-John N. Of Southbury, Connecticut and Pubnico, Nova Scotia. Died Novemeber 30, at The Pomperaug Woods Health Center after a short illness. He is survived by his wife Alice (Stone) and two sons, John N. Trainer, Jr. of Nashville, TN. and Edward S. Trainer of Evanston, Illinois, by fi
 UNGERLEIDER - Peter. The Covenant Foundation mourns the untimely passing of Peter Ungerleider, President of the Dorot Foundation. Our work together on ''The Hating Pot'' and the Jewish Civics Initiative, brought us close to this remarkable person. Peter was an exemplary man, a dear friend, 
 WECHSLER-Bert. Beloved son of Miriam (Mickey) Pullan and the late commissioner Gabriel Wechsler, of cancer, November 30th. Mr. Wechsler was a well-known music and dance critic. His reviews appeared in many newspapers and magazines here and abroad. He was heard a great many times on WQXR's '
 Philip I. BermanPhilip I. Berman, an art collector and philanthropist who was chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art from 1989 until October, and  leader of a capital campaign that raised $63.4 million for the museum, died on Wednesday at his home in Allentown, Pa. He was 82. Th
 Stephane Grappelli, the elfin, witty and urbane jazz violinist best known for his role in founding the Quintet of the Hot Club of France, died yesterday in a Paris clinic. He was 89 and lived in Paris. The cause was complications after hernia surgery, said his manager, Michel Chouan
 Edwin (Chapo) Rosario, a three-time world champion boxer whose career inside the ring was marked by brilliance and whose later life outside the ring was marred by drug abuse, died Monday night at his parents' home in Toa Baja, P.R. He was 34. An autopsy performed on Rosario yesterda
 AUTET-Ludovic. On November 28, 1997. Survived by his beloved son, Cedric, his mother, Germaine, and his brother, Bernard. Funeral Mass will be held at the Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, Lexington Ave at 66 St, Wednesday, December 3, at 1PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may
 BERMAN-Philip I. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of Philip I. Berman, and extends its condolences to his family. Together with his beloved wife, Muriel, they were wise and passionate philanthropists who greatly enriched the city of Jerusalem with important gifts of outdoor sculp
 BURSHTYN-Eliezer. Tifereth Israel-Town and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert President, Fred Karp       
 GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. The physicians and staff of Mount Sinai Faculty Practice Associates mourn the loss of Dr. Paul Gilbert, our colleague and friend. He will be missed by his many patients and by all of us who worked with him and cherished his wise counsel, his gentle irreverence and his 
 HECKLER-David. December 1, 1997. Beloved husband of Marion and the late Annabelle. Loving father of Henry and Charles. Dear brother of Max. Devoted step father of Leslie and Gary Granoff, JoAnn and David Small and Ellen and James Franco. Adoring grandfather of Annabelle and Paul Heckler, St
 LELEIKO-Max. The faculty and staff of the Department of Pediatrics at the Mount Sinai Medical Center regret to announce the passing of Max Leleiko, father of Neal Leleiko, M.D., PhD., Vice Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics & Chief of the Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology. Our th
 MULLER-Max. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Montreal Jewish community and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife, Fanny, and children, who are all YU alumni, Hedda and Sheldon Rudoff, member of the Yeshiva College Board of Directors, and Lydi
 ROBBINS-Burton E. December 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Lucy. Loving father of Dianne (Richard) Cohen, Joan Robbins, Stefanie (John) Whalen and Penny Cutler. Adored grandfather of Missi (Chuck) Wolf, Ali (Darin) Harnell Murphy, Robin (Bruce) Minkoff, Sandi (Frank) Veltri, Sara (Jeffrey) Cohe
 STAHL-Norman O., M.D. Beloved husband of Carol; devoted father of Stephanie Driver and Adam; loving son of Rebecca; dear brother of Marvin; cherished grandfather of Addison Michael. Services Thursday, 10 A.M., at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, Long Island. STAHL-N
 TROY-Harry. Of Delray Beach, FL. Died December 2 at the age of 93. Survived by his beloved wife Lillian of 64 years. Loving father of Morton, Stuart and Gary and daughters-in-law Marjorie and Marilyn Troy. Cherished grandfather of Lawrence, Michele, Andrew, Stephen, Edward and Richard. Grea
 UNGERLEIDER-Peter. As a member of the Center for Defense Information (CDI) Board of Advisors, Peter Ungerleider was a trusted counselor and supporter. He was the catalyst encouraging CDI to establish a site on the Internet to make CDI's information available in seconds around the world. Thi
 WEINREB-Leon. A Founder of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center who with his wife Saba, and late parents, Mr. and Mrs. Wolf Weinreb, dedicated one of the Hospital's outpatient departments. Upon the end of the Shloshim, we extend condolences to his wife, children and sister. American Committee fo
 XUEREB-Jean Pierre, 65. Died after a valiant struggle with a Parkinson's/Alzheimers disease on November 27 in Rochefort, France. In the 1960's he went to Paris where he joined Olivetti and attained a managerial position and then entered the world of fashion. Seeing opportunities in the U.S.
 Tristan E. Beplat, an international banking executive who played an important role in the economic reconstruction of postwar Japan, died on Friday at the Columbia Medical Center in Ormond Beach, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Princeton, N.J., and Daytona Beach, Fla. He died of complica
 Endicott Peabody, the scion of two old American families who served just one term in a major elective office but ran frequently for others and led a quixotic campaign to elevate the importance of the Vice Presidency, died on Tuesday at his home in Hollis, N.H. He was 77. The cause w
 CATSIMATIDIS-Andreas. On December 2, 1997, at the age of 93. Beloved husband of Anthoula. Loving father of John. Grandfather of John Jr. and Andrea John. Brother of George and of twin sister Eftihia. The family will receive friends Thursday 2-5 P.M. and 79:30 P.M. at the Frank Campbell Fune
 COCKERAM-Herbert S. On November 18, of Wheaton, MD. in his 87th year. Husband of Virginia, father of John and Vincent. Survived by three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren, and his sister Florence Sievwright of Brooklyn, NY. A memorial service will be held Saturday, December 6 at 12 
 CRAWFORD-Michael Robert, 53. Died Friday, Nov. 28, 1997 following a brave struggle with cancer and AIDS. Loving father of Emily, Jason & Justin Crawford. Adoring grandfather of James Estabrook IV, Evan and William Sampson and Eva Crawford. Dear brother of Patsy Lizotte, Viola Cotta, Anselm,
 DOLGER-Henry, M.D. On Dec. 3, 1997 after a long illness. Adored husband of Laura. Devoted father of Jonathan Dolger and Judith Widmann. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Kenneth Widmann and Emily Widmann McBurney. Loving father-in-law of Jane Isay Dolger and Roger M. Widmann. Dear brother
 FAGER-John W. Of Garden City, New York, age 82, on December 2, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife of 56 years, Melva Clark, MD. Distinguished graduate of Colgate University and Harvard Law School. Retired partner of Hughes, Hubbard and Reed. Adored father of John, Diane, Melva and Russell a
 FUNKE-Vincent J. The board of trustees and staff at the Brooklyn Academy of Music sadly mourn the passing of Vincent Funke, BAM's Vice President for Finance and Operations. Vincent was a valued member of the executive staff, and will be truly missed. We wish to extend our sincere condolence
 GILBERT-Paul. The entire staff of the Internal Medicine Associates of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the loss of Dr. Paul Gilbert, the Division Chief of the Section of General Internal Medicine, who passed away suddenly. Recognizing his foresight, creativity, and influence on Internal
 HECKLER-David. The Partners and Staff of Marks Shron & Company, LLP mourn the loss of their esteemed friend and client David Heckler. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Marion and to his sons Charles and Henry. Arnold Gruber, Managing Partner       
 KADIN-Theodore. Dec. 3, 1997 at home, White Plains, NY. Beloved husband of Rhoda. Loving father of Paul (Marcy) of Short Hills, NJ, Richard (Liz) of Scarsdale, NY. Cherished grandfather of Andy, Michael, Allison and Peter. Services will be held Friday, December 5, 1997, 11:30AM at Congregat
 LAZARUS-Paul. The Board of Governors and Members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Paul Lazarus. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his family. Andrew J. Frankel, President Judith Weil, Secretary       
 ROBBINS-Burton. All of us at Continental Lithograph express our deep regret at the loss of our former Chairman and mentor. Our heartfelt sympathy to his loving wife Lucy, his daughters Diane and Joan, his brother Norman and all the members of his family. ROBBINS-Burton. The Members 
 TRAINER-John. Trainer, Wortham & Company mourns the passing of our colleague John N. Trainer. Former Chairman of the Board of Trainer, Wortham, prominent member of the financial community of New York and active in civic affairs for fifty years, died on November 30 after a short illness at t
 TROY-Harry. Of Delray Beach, FL. Died December 2 at the age of 93. Survived by his beloved wife Lillian of 64 years. Loving father of Morton, Stuart and Gary and daughters-in-law Marjorie and Marilyn Troy. Cherished grandfather of Lawrence, Michele, Andrew, Stephen, Edward and Richard. Grea
 UNGERLEIDER-Peter. We have been blessed to work with Peter Ungerleider. His critical analysis, his creative imagination and his commitment to Jewish culture profoundly shaped the Israel Cooperative Program, a partnership of the Dorot and Nathan Cummings Foundations to support pluralism and 
 WABER-Morris. Of Philadelphia, on December 2, 1997. Survived by nieces and nephews, great nieces and nephews, and great-great nieces and nephews. Graveside services will be held Friday 11AM, Montefiore Cemetery (Section 14), Church Road and Borbeck Street, Fox Chase, PA. Contributions in hi
 FIELDS-Edward. Remembered with deep affection on his birthday. The Family       
 Steve Hamilton, who pitched for the Yankees in the 1963 and 1964 World Series and is best remembered for a lobbed pitch known as the Folly Floater, died Tuesday at his home in Morehead, Ky. He was 62. The cause was colon cancer, according to a spokesman for Morehead State University
 Joseph Kahn, who won awards for reporting at The New York Post, died on Tuesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan, where he had lived for three years. He was 84. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Lenore. Mr. Kahn attended City College an
 Julius Barnathan, a longtime ABC executive who was responsible for many technical developments in the television industry, including the use of hand-held and miniature cameras at sports events and closed-captioned programs for the deaf, died on Monday at his home in Roslyn Harbor, N.Y. He w
 BECKERMAN-Sam. The Young Men's Philanthropic League Foundation records with sorrow the passing of our Past President, Sam Beckerman, and extend our condolences to his family. Young Men's Philanthropic League Foundation Stanley Banks, President Stephen Dietz, Past President       
 BERGER-Stanley. On December 4, 1997. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Flatbush and Shaare Torah Jewish Center mourn the loss of its friend and former president. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Rhoda, and his children and grandchildren. Services are to be held on Friday, Decemb
 BERNSTEIN-Henry C. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Henry C. Bernstein, cherished father, beloved husband, cham pion of Jewish causes. His dedication to those who needed help was as passionate as his devotion to communal service. From 1942-1970, he
 BUCKINGHAM-H. Paul, 84. Of Lost Tree Village, Fla., and Clark Road, Wolfeboro, NH died Nov. 29 in Wolfeboro after a long illness. He leaves his wife of 59 years, Margaret G. (Wright) Buckingham, two sons: H. Paul Buckingham III, Holden, MA, Thomas W. Buckingham, Boylston, MA, five grandchil
 CATSIMATIDIS - Andreas. We mourn the passing of the father of our esteemed Vice President, John A. Catsimatidis and extend our condolences to his family. Young Men's Philanthropic League Foundation Stanley Banks, President Stephen Dietz, Past President CATSIMATIDIS - Andreas. The ma
 CRAWFORD - Michael Robert. Born December 5, 1943. Youngest ever Deputy Director of Indian Affairs in Maine. Co-Director of TRIBE, an experimental program in Indian education. Consultant to the New England Equal Education Center, the Boston Public Schools and the Ford Foundation. Worked with
 DOLGER-Henry, M.D. On Dec. 3, 1997 after a long illness. Adored husband of Laura. Devoted father of Jonathan Dolger and Judith Widmann. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Kenneth Widmann and Emily Widmann McBurney. Loving father-in-law of Jane Isay Dolger and Roger M. Widmann. Dear brother
 DROBNER-William S., MD. Of Short Hills, NJ, December 3, 1997 at the age of 37 after a long struggle with cancer. Dr. Drobner was a graduate of Hobart College & the Medical College of Pennsylvania. He completed a residency in Orthopedic Surgery at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, a fellowship
 GITELSON-Esther. The Officers, Trustees and staff of Jewish Child Care Association extend their deepest sympathy to Dr. Paul Gitelson, Executive Vice President, upon the death of his mother. Our sincere condolences to the entire family. Irwin U. Goldberg, President Stephen Sokoloff, Board C
 JONES-Dr. Wallace L. Former CEO of Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, died Dec. 2nd at his home in Chillicothe, Ohio at the age of 63 from a sudden heart attack. Dr. Jones served CGSM for 30 years before retiring in January 1997. He is survived by three brothers, Lloyd D. Jones, O
 PEABODY-Endicott (Chub). On December 2, 1997 in Hollis, NH. Former Governor of Mass., aged 77 years. Lovingly survived by his wife of 54 years, Barbara ''Toni'' (Gibbons) of Hollis, NH., three children: Barbara Peabody of New York City, Endicott Peabody, Jr., of Brookline, MA., and Robert L
 POLOGEORGIS-Stanley N. Dec. 2, 1997, Odessa, Fl. Beloved husband of Mary. Loving father of Nick, Elaine Hempstead, and Joan Nathenas. Devoted grandfather of Jonathan Hempstead and Andrew Nathenas. Reposing at Commack Abbey, 96 Commack Road, Commack NY until 9:15 A.M. Monday. Visiting Sat. 2
 RODRIGUEZ-Edward. Of 349 W. 85 St., NYC, passed away suddenly Dec. 3 at age 46. A warm, caring and loving man, he leaves behind his devoted wife Lucia Bennett, mother Carmen, sisters Maria, Nora, and Sandra, brothers Norbert and Tito. He will be sorely missed by his extended family of niece
 SCHAYER-Dr. Richard W. Of Spring Valley, N.Y. died at Good Samaritan Hospital, Suffern, N.Y. He was 82. Dr. Schayer earned a Doctorate in Biochemistry from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. Before his graduate studies, he was a professional trombonist in the Army Band 
 STECHER-Hon. Martin B. On December 4, 1997. Devoted husband of Judith Stolitzky Stecher. Beloved father to Jamie and Esta, and Joseph and Lizbeth. Adored grandfather to Michael, Emily and Ryan. Loving uncle to Jo and Madelaine. Brother of the late Phillip Stecher, brother-in-law of Hermine 
 STRALEM-Pierre, 88. Born on October 17, 1911, in Chappaqua, N.Y., died Wednesday, December 3, 1997, in Houston, TX. Mr. Stralem attended Princeton University where he recently attended his 65th reunion, class of 1932. He was a longtime supporter of the George Junior Republic, Inc. of Freevi
 TYSON-John J. Friends of John Tyson wish to announce his demise on December 2. A memorial service will be held on Saturday December 5 at 2pm at St Peter's Episcopal Church, 346 West 20th St. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the John Tyson Memorial Foundation, C/O AmFAR, 733 Thir
 UNGERLEIDER - Peter. The Pardes Institute of Jewish Studies in Jerusalem and the American Pardes Foundation mourn the passing of Peter Ungerleider who supported the study of the great classics of our tradition by the finest graduates of American universities within a context of free inquiry
 WECHSLER-Philip. SCORE Chapter 1000 mourns the passing of our counselor Philip Wechsler. As Vice Chairman and organizer of our workshops, Philip rendered great service to the small business community. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Ivan Szanto, Chairman       
 WEISS-Harry. His friends and family mourn his passing. He will be greatly missed by many. Graveside services will be held today at New Montefiore Cemetery.       
 James Sardos, a manager of opera singers, died on Nov. 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack from complications of diabetes, said his wife, Rita De Carlo Sardos, a mezzo-soprano. In a career spanning almost five decades, Mr. Sardos managed such
 John E. Moss, the dogged California Congressman whose long, lonely fight against Government secrecy led to the landmark Freedom of Information Act in 1966, died early yesterday at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 84 and had represented Sacramento in the House of Representatives from 1953
 John N. Trainer, a former president of Trainer Wortham & Company, an investment counseling firm, died on Sunday at the Pomperaug Woods Health Center in Southbury, Conn. He was 88. He died after a short illness, said his brother, Robert Trainer. Mr. Trainer joined the firm fo
 Lawrence B. Perkins, a prolific architect whose firm, Perkins & Will, grew into one of the nation's largest practices, died on Wednesday at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 90 and lived in Evanston. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Lawrence B. Perkins Jr., who he
 Malcolm Shepherd Knowles, widely acknowledged as a founder of adult education as a separate discipline, died on Nov. 27 at the Washington Regional Medical Center in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 84 and lived in Fayetteville. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Dr. Knowles c
 Michael Hedges, a guitarist whose distinctive style meshed folk music, jazz and an exploration of the guitar's sonic capacity, was found dead on Tuesday of injuries suffered in an car accident near Boonville, Calif., in Mendocino County. He was 43, said his manager, Hillary Burgess.        
 BARROW-Mercury Marc. Brilliant musician and artist died suddenly on December 3, 1997. The loss of such a profound and good human being leaves an empty space in the hearts of his mother, sister, daughters, Kiara and Kalia, and in the rest of the family and friends. He will be missed. Memoria
 ELLIS-Eli. Died peacefully on December 5, 1997 at the age of 81. He was Senior Partner of Hill, Betts & Nash, one of New York's oldest and largest admiralty law firms until 1987 when he became Of Counsel. Beloved husband of Suzanne (nee Harris). Loving father of Judith Ellis, stepfather of 
 FAISON-John Williams. On December 5, 1997, in his 80th year. Beloved husband of Grace Gray Faison. Devoted father of Sandy Faison and Jeff Stockly Faison. Dear brother of Seth Shepard Faison, Sr. Adored grandfather of Jeneve Noel Pendleton, John Richard Faison, Jeffrey Shepard Faison, Molly
 KADIN-Theodore. The Board & Staff of Common Cents extend heartfelt condolences to Paul Kadin and his family on the passing of his beloved father Theodore Kadin. He was a true friend.       
 MENDELSON-Joseph L. The faculty, administration and board of directors of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with sorrow the passing of Joseph L. Mendelson. An honorary and former long-time board member and a member of the Seminary's Society of Fellows, he was a staunch JTS supporter. H
 STECHER-Martin B. On December 4, 1997. Devoted husband of Judith Stolitzky Stecher. Beloved father to Jamie and Esta, and Joseph and Lizbeth. Adored grandfather to Michael, Emily and Ryan. Loving uncle to Jo and Madelaine. Brother of the late Phillip Stecher, brother-in-law of Hermine Bruck
 WEYNER-Kalman F., 82. Of Ansonia, CT., died on November 27, of chronic pulmonary disease. Mr. Weyner was born in Brooklyn, October 1915. His photographic career included positions at The New York Times, Associated Press, Acme News, United Press and twenty-five years of self-employment as a 
 WILDE-Peter Rawlinson. Founder and CEO of Wilde Associates. On November 21, 1997. Survived by his wife Nancy Crowley Wilde, his mother Anita Wilde, two sons Thomas Rawlinson, Christopher Michael, daughters Lisa Ann, Elizabeth Wilde Aber and Eileen April, a brother James, a sister Wendy Mell
 Donald Carnegie McKenna, a retired Pennsylvania industrialist, a philanthropist and the namesake of Claremont McKenna College in California, died on Nov. 26 at his home in South Laguna, Calif. He was 90. Mr. McKenna spent most of his business career at Kennametal Inc., a large maker
 Dr. Henry Dolger, a diabetes expert who was one of the first to document that insulin injections were not in fact a miracle cure for diabetes because of the long-term complications of the disease, died on Wednesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.        
 Dr. Leon Goldman, a pioneer in laser surgery and a leading educator in the field, died on Tuesday in San Diego. He was 91. In 1961, Dr. Goldman became the first researcher to use a laser to treat a human skin disease when he treated melanoma. The method later became popular in remov
 BARD-Morton. The Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus Morton Bard, a pioneer in the fields of community and health psychology. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Frances Degen Horowitz, President       
 BECKERMAN-Sam, beloved husband of Eszter Gyory, past president of Young Men's Philanthropic League NYC, Chairman Emeritus of Designcraft Industries, Inc. has departed on December 1, 1997. His generous charitable and philanthropic endeavors had touched the hearts of those he had known person
 ELLIS-Eli. Died peacefully on December 5, 1997 at the age of 81. He was Senior Partner of Hill, Betts & Nash, one of New York's oldest and largest admiralty law firms until 1987 when he became Of Counsel. Beloved husband of Suzanne (nee Harris). Loving father of Judith Ellis, stepfather of 
 FAISON-John W. (Jack). The Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service mourns the passing of long-time Board member and close friend Jack Faison. A Director of our organization for 45 years, he was deeply committed to our work with vulnerable children and the disabled. He contributed to the organi
 FAISON-John Williams. On December 5, 1997, in his 80th year. Beloved husband of Grace Gray Faison. Devoted father of Sandy Faison and Jeff Stockly Faison. Dear brother of Seth Shepard Faison, Sr. Adored grandfather of Jeneve Noel Pendleton, John Richard Faison, Jeffrey Shepard Faison, Molly
 FLACKS-Paul. The officers and members of the Zionist Organization of America mourn the passing of its former Executive Vice President who dedicated a lifetime to the cause of Israel and Zionism. His notable accomplishments on behalf of Israel and the Jewish people will be an inspiration to 
 GLASSMAN-David W. November 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Jane, cherished father of Matthew and Rebecca. He was admired as a fine, honorable, intelligent, beloved and delightful person to his family, his associates and friends. He now goes forth to join his parents and grandparents in eternal
 HEIMOWITZ-Louis. Age 82, of Miami Beach, formerly of Boro Park, passed away Tuesday, December 2, 1997; survived by his beloved wife Rose, children Stanley and Eileen, grandchildren Marc (Miriam), Jill and Erica, and brother Ben. He is loved and will be missed by many.       
 ISENBERG - Charles. Professor Charles Isenberg died of cancer at his home in Milford, CT on Dec. 4, at the age of 53. He is survived by his wife, Rhea Paul; children, William, Martin and Aviva; parents, Marcia and Arnold Isenberg of Pompano, FL; and brother, David of Fairfield, CT. In lieu 
 KAMENS-Theodore. Of Tamarac, FL. Passed away on December 5, 1997. Ted was a practicing attorney. Graduate of Columbia University and Brooklyn Law School. Member of Trial Lawyers Association in New York City. He maintained an active law practice after retiring to Florida. He was a member of 
 McSHEA-Robert J. Died November 25, 1997. Professor emeritus, Boston University. Survived by his wife of more than 49 years, Naomi S. of Brookline, MA, his daughter Sarah D. of New York, NY, his son Daniel W., daughter-in-law Diane Ritchie and granddaughter Hannah Leah, of Durham, NC, and si
 MEYER-Martin P. Ph.D., noted mountain climber, a man whose wisdom, wit and humanity enriched the lives of all he touched. He was very much loved and will be missed and mourned by his wife, stepchildren and his friends.       
 ROTHENBERG-Arnold. Greatly loved husband of Goldie Baron Rothenberg. Father of Ronald and the late Roger. Grandfather of Lily, Rocky and Alexander. We will sorrowfully miss him always.       
 STECHER-Martin B. On December 4, 1997. Devoted husband of Judith Stolitzky Stecher. Beloved father to Jamie and Esta, and Joseph and Lizbeth. Adored grandfather to Michael, Emily and Ryan. Loving uncle to Jo and Madelaine. Brother of the late Phillip Stecher, brother-in-law of Hermine Bruck
 UNGERLEIDER-Peter. The Officers and Board of American Friends of the Hebrew University mourn with great sadness the passing of our friend and benefactor Peter Ungerleider, whose family has supported the Hebrew University for many years. Their generous donations, made through the Dorot Found
 VAUS-James Arthur, Jr. Internationally-known electrical wizard and worker with youth, died December 1, 1997, at Augusta Medical Center, Fisherville, VA after an illness of several years. Vaus was born into a minister's family in Los Angeles, California, on February 17, 1919, and grew up in 
 WABER-Morris. The oldest active member of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, died on December 2, 1997, at the age of 97. A man universally loved, admired and respected, he was a mentor for many generations of members of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange where, on the occasion of his 95th birthd
 Vic Lombardi, who was part of a pitching staff that carried the Brooklyn Dodgers to one pennant and part of a trade that helped them win three others, died Wednesday at Community Hospital in Fresno, Calif., following heart surgery. He was 75. Lombardi, a left-hander who stood 5 feet
 Dr. Wallace H. Clark Jr., a skin pathologist at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston who devised the first widely used scale for assessing the seriousness of skin cancers called melanomas, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Kennebunk, Me. He was 73. Dr. Clark, a visiting professor of patholog
 Walter J. Addems, a pioneering aviator who built his first plane in 1916 and his last one in the 1960's, but only after he had barnstormed across the nation and flown the mail in the 1920's, trained pilots in the 1930's and served as director of flight operations for United Airlines until t
 Bert Wechsler, a dance and music critic, died on Nov. 30 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Jonathan Slaff, a colleague. Mr. Wechsler was an actor and singer before he went on to full-time writing, working for ei
 Dr. Joseph Wolpe, a South African-born psychiatrist who was a pioneer in behavior therapy, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 82. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Eva. Behavior therapy is an approach to psychotherapy based on the idea that people's 
 Joel Barlow, a Washington tax lawyer and former treasurer of the United States Chamber of Commerce, died Tuesday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 89. He died of complications from a stroke, his former law firm, Covington & Burling, said. Mr. Barlow retired in 1977 af
 Juan Sanchez Arreola, the Mexican farm worker who carried on a seven-year correspondence with Theodore J. Kaczynski, the man accused of being the Unabomber, died Aug. 2 at his home in Ojinaga, Mexico. He was 69. Word of Mr. Sanchez's death came in a letter to The New York Times rece
 Martin B. Stecher, who during a 21-year tenure as a New York State Supreme Court justice ruled on cases involving Joseph Jett, a former government-bond trader at Kidder, Peabody & Company, and Frederick W. Richmond, a former Brooklyn Congressman, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in M
 ALLEN-Victor O., of Madison, NJ, on Friday, November 28, 1997. Husband of Margaret (nee Dixon) Allen. Father of Alexander Charles Allen, John Oliver Allen, James Christian Allen, Victor Michael Allen and the late Margaret Victoria Allen. He is also survived by ten grandchildren and four gre
 DUGAN-Richard M. Of New York City and Shelter Island, NY, passed away December 6, 1997. The cause was cancer. Mr. Dugan was a retired corporate vice president of Alexander & Alexander Services, Inc. He was a member of the Union League Club, Shelter Island Yacht Club and the Sommelier Societ
 ELLIS-Eli. Died peacefully on December 5, 1997 at the age of 81. He was Senior Partner of Hill, Betts & Nash, one of New York's oldest and largest admiralty law firms until 1987 when he became Of Counsel. Beloved husband of Suzanne (nee Harris). Loving father of Judith Ellis, stepfather of 
 EPSTEIN-H. Broadman. On December 6, 1997. Prior to opening his own practice in 1946, he was acting Corporate Counsel for NYC. He retired in 1982 and became honorary Trustee of the Union Temple in Brooklyn, where he had been Chairman of the Social Action Committee. Beloved husband of the lat
 FABIAN-Tibor. On December 6, 1997. President of Mathematica, Inc., in Princeton, NJ from 1961 to 1983, former President and Chairman of the Board of the Hospital for Joint Diseases in Manhattan, and board member and management consultant for several commercial, health-related, and investmen
 FAISON-John Williams. On December 5, 1997, in his 80th year. Beloved husband of Grace Gray Faison. Devoted father of Sandy Faison and Jeff Stockly Faison. Dear brother of Seth Shepard Faison, Sr. Adored grandfather of Jeneve Noel Pendleton, John Richard Faison, Jeffrey Shepard Faison, Molly
 FLYER-Gerald R. Suddenly, on December 6, 1997. Loving husband of Joan. Devoted father of Nancy and Barbara. Beloved father-inlaw of Tee and Alan. Adoring grandfather of Philip and Elizabeth. Cherished brother of Rosalie Garren and brother-in-law of Murray Garren, and Betty and Larry Newman,
 LEVY-Frederick I. Beloved husband of Judith; cherished father of Jane and Alan Neustadter; Nancy and Richard Conti; and Dr. Andrew and Lisa Levy. Adored ''Poppy Fred'' of Amanda, Andrew, Alexandra, Eli, Josh, Robbie, Jake, Gaby and Ari. Devoted brother of Syd Greene and the late Tess Heffne
 NUSSBAUM-Bernard M. Age 75, died suddenly on December 6, in the midst of a disabling illness. He was a very creative, kind, loving and proud man. Bernard worked until the end of his life in advertsing and sales. During his lifetime he also wrote a body of literary works, and was an avid bri
 POLOGEORGIS-Stanley. We note with profound sorrow the passing of our good friend Stanley. On behalf of our families and members of our company, we express deepest condolences to his family. We will miss him. The Mechutan Families       
 POWELL-Thomas R. On November 30, 1997. Former member, New York City Opera Company. Twenty-eight years, retired member Metropolitan Opera Company. Devoted husband of Idessa and father of Idessa, Jr., and Thomas, Jr. Ten year Met chorus delegate whose intelligent advisory role model inspired 
 REIDER-Dr. Bernard (Bill). Beloved husband of Joan for over 50 years. Devoted father of Susan, Richard and son-in-law Kent. Loving Poppi of Joshua, Lee, Rachel and Elizabeth. Brother of Sidney. Brother-in-law of Esther, Beth and Alvin. ''His life was gentle and the elements so mix'd in him 
 SAX-Jules M. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our dedicated past president, Jules M. Sax, known for his integrity and generosity. He and his late wife Rose were Founders of our Minskoff Cultural Center and Day School and played a significant role in its development. To his children
 SCOTT-Owen Milton, 72. On December 5, 1997. Retired architectural graphic designer with Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Born November 22, 1925, in Cozad, NE. He served in U.S. Navy during World War II, received his BA from University of Nebraska, and his MA from Cranbrook Academy
 STONE-David. Husband of the late Lucie Stone, businessman, artist and philanthropist, died peacefully on December 6, 1997, and now has joined his beloved Lucie. Private arrangements.       
 UNGERLEIDER-Peter. Three generations of Scheuers express profound sorrow to Steve, Jeanne and Andrew and their children at the loss of your brother and uncle. He was a gifted artist, sailor and concerned citizen. Richard and Joan Scheuer Marian Scheuer Sofaer Daniel and Shelley Scheuer Jona
 Barry S. Brook, an internationally renowned musicologist who established and led a doctoral program in music at the City University of New York Graduate School, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in New York City. Professor Bro
 Kermit Goell, a songwriter, died on Thursday in Portland, Me. He was 82. Mr. Goell was perhaps best known as the lyricist for the 1947 hit ''Near You,'' with music by Francis Craig. It was a big seller not only for Craig and his band but also for the Andrews Sisters and, 10 years la
 AUSTIN-Brigadier General Frederick Victor, Jr. Yale, 1928. C.O. 5th Engineers, U.S. Army. Headed Budget Division American Electric Power System. Tenor soloist Yale Glee Club. Survived by his beloved wife Odette Jung Austin, two daughters Alix Kendall, Ghislaine Belcak, one daughter-inlaw Wi
 BROOK-Barry S. The faculty, students and staff of The Graduate School and University Center of CUNY are deeply saddened by the loss of Barry S. Brook, internationally renown musicologist and architect of our highly esteemed Doctoral Programs in Music. We extend our deepest sympathies to his
 DAS-Kamleshwar. Died on November 6 in Bradenton, FL. Former Deputy Director, Division of Human Rights, United Nations. Beloved husband of Jean and father of Shyam, Arun, Kamala and Raj. He also is survived by seven grandchildren.       
 ELICOFON-Edward I. Attorney and art collector. In his 94th year, on December 8, 1997. Loving husband of the late Diana Preiser Elicofon, devoted proud father of Alan and Harriet Elisofon, Carol and Joel Matcovsky, Barry Elisofon, Francine and Robert Follick, and great friend of many. He is 
 ELLIS-Eli. The Officers of Amerada Hess Corporation express their deep sorrow at the loss of their esteemed outside counsel and close friend, Eli Ellis. His guidance and advice have been of great value to the Corporation and will be missed. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Suzann
 FABIAN-Tibor, Ph.D. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute and the Officers of the HJD Research & Development Foundation mourn the passing of Dr. Tibor Fabian, distinguished Honorary President and Chairman of the Boar
 GURNEY-John Kirkman of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, died December 7, 1997. Formerly of Garden City, NY, he graduated the Choate School and Princeton University, Class of 1934. He was Managing Partner of Estabrook and Co., a Board Member of GreenPoint Financial Corp. and Greenwood Cemetery, Brookl
 KLEINMAN-Philip. Beloved husband of Mildred. Devoted father of Robert and Richard and fatherin-law of Pam and Ginny. Cherished grandfather of Jaime, David, Jared and Evan. Loving son of Anna. Service is on Tuesday, at 1 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Ne
 LEUNER-Evelyn M. and Joseph H., died November 29 in an auto accident near Richmond, Virginia. Evelyn Leuner graduated from Queens College. Joseph Leuner graduated from Columbia University School of Engineering. He founded Northeast Great Dane in 1973 and continued to serve as Chairman of th
 LEVENTRITT-Peter A. On December 6 at age 82. Survived by his wife, Faith, two stepdaughters, Hope and Cary Igleheart, and his niece Ann and Paul Bschorr, and their children, Sharon, Molly and Katherine.       
 McCARTHY-James J. Jr. age 89, of Fairfield, CT. formerly of NYC died December 7, 1997. He was a graduate of Regis H.S. Class of 1925, Fordham University class of 1929 and The Fordham Law School class of 1932. He was an Attorney for the Immigrant Savings Bank, New York City. He is survived b
 ROSENBAUM - Edmund, M.D. Died December 7, 1997, the day before his 86th birthday. Family physician for 40 years. Survived in sorrow by his sister, Lilly Kellner, his daughter, Eleanor, his son and daughter-in-law, David and Catherine and his grandsons. Funeral services at Riverside Chapel, 
 SEAMAN-Burton S. Beloved husband of Lee. Devoted father of Margie, Alex and Diane. Loving grandfather of Kevin, Brian, Mitchell and Jeffrey. Funeral services Wednesday, December 10, 1997, 9:45am, Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Rd. Great Neck, N.Y. SEAMAN-Burton. Temple Beth-El of Great 
 SELLIN-Neil Robert. Dec. 7, 1997. Beloved husband of June Sellin. Loving father of Kenneth Sellin, Alison Weiskopf and Thomas Sellin, and father-in-law of Lynn Sellin and Dan Weiskopf. Adored grandfather of Olivia Sellin. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81st Street) t
 SMITH-Mary Jane. It is with deep sorrow and sadness that we learned of the passing of Mary Jane Smith, beloved mother and grandmother. To our dear friend, Jimmy and his entire family we extend our deepest sympathy as they mourn the loss of their dear mother. Joyce and Richard SMITH-
 STURGES-Benjamin R. Dec. 6, 1997. Husband of Barbara L. Tate and the late Sandol Stoddard Sturges, and father of Rush Sturges, Dorothy Sturges and Sandol Harsch. Residence Saunderstown, R.I. Memorial service Wednesday 2 P.M. in Saint Peter's By The Sea Church, Narraganset, R.I. In lieu of f
 UNGERLEIDER - Peter. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourns the passing of a true humanitarian, Peter Ungerleider. The generousity of the Ungerleider family, throught the Dorot Foundation was instrumental in the establishment of Tel Aviv University's Moshe Dayan Center for Middl
 WERFEL-Arthur A., 87. December 5, 1997. Survived by his wife of 51 years Phyllis, son Steven, grandson Jeffrey, sisters Dorothy and Esther. He touched many lives and we will miss his kindness, love and inner strength. Shiva Wednesday and Thursday 6 P.M., at 1 Carlton Street, Malverne, NY.  
 WRIGHT-Irving Sherwood, M.D. 96, died suddenly at home on December 8, 1997. He was the husband of the late Lois Elliman Wright, father of Barbara Wright Gatje, of New York City, and Alison Wright Cameron, of Bronxville; grandfather of Alexandra Lord Gatje, Douglas Wright Cameron, Marianna G
 Willie Pastrano, who went from a chubby adolescent to a world light-heavyweight boxing champion, died of cancer in New Orleans on Saturday night. He was 62. Pastrano had been hospitalized at Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans for two weeks. Angelo Dundee, his former trainer, said 
 Joel White, a naval architect and boat builder who was considered to be one of the country's foremost designers of wooden boats, died Friday at his home in Brooklin, Me. He was 66. The cause was lung cancer, his son Steven said. Working out of his Brooklin Boat Yard just sou
 Leon Poliakov, a historian of anti-Semitism who testified at major war crimes trials, died Monday in France, where he lived, leaders of Jewish groups said. He was 87. Mr. Poliakov wrote the five-volume ''History of Anti-Semitism,'' as well as ''20th Century Totalitarianism,'' ''Jewi
 ALLIOTTS-John M., 37. Of New York City on December 9, 1997. Survived by his mother Barbara; brothers Charles, Christopher and Jamie, who will all miss his big heart and fun loving spirit. Funeral service Thursday, December 11 at 10 AM at the Holy Trinity Church, 34 Maple Ave., Hackensack, N
 ATTIE-Joseph Nathan, Dr. Dearest husband Muriel; adored father of Jeanie, Alice, Ilana, Kenny and Heliana; and precious grandfather Justine and Gideon. You were our anchor and our inspiration. It is hard to imagine how we will go on without your joyous presence and loving embrace. We love y
 BERNSTEIN-Jeffrey M. On December 7, 1997. Devoted son of Paula and the late Robert. Cherished brother of Barbi and Dan Radd and the late Roni Sunshine. Loving uncle of Amber Sunshine. Cherished friend to his pet cat Scooter. Services on Wednesday 12 Noon at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street an
 DANIEL-William. The Union of American Hebrew Congregations deeply mourns the passing of our colleague and friend Bill Daniel. A true advocate of the philosophy of outreach, it was his generosity and spirit that was the foundation of The William and Lottie Daniel Department of Outreach. Bill
 FLEMING-John Joseph. On December 9th, 1997. Native of County Galway, Ireland. Retired Detective, NYPD. Cherished husband of the late Jean. Devoted father of Maura, Sally, Geraldine and John, Jr. Loving grandfather of Stephen F. and Daniel M. Etna. Proud father-in-law of Daniel A. Etna and J
 HAMMITT-Craig. On December 5 of Bryn Mawr, PA. Husband of Katherine, father of Craig Jr. and Shelby Hammitt. Also survived by four grandsons. A memorial service was held Tuesday, December 8th, in Beaumont at Bryn Mawr. Interment private. Contributions in his name may be made to the American
 KLOKE-Alfred. Passed away on November 17. He was 75 years old and is survived by his wife Ingrid, his daughter Renate Wiedemann, his son Daniel, his sister Helga Grundmann, his sister-in-law Helga Haniel, his niece Marion and three grandchildren. He was a chief architectural designer, graph
 LASSOE-John Van Pelt, Jr. Died of cancer on December 9, 1997 in his 72nd year. A graduate of Yale with a Master's Degree from the University of Chicago, Mr. Lassoe worked for many years in race relations, community organization and social action programs. His final 31 years were spent as a 
 REIN-Robert Louis, M.D. On December 7, 1997. Age 90. A caring, dedicated Brooklyn dermatologist for over 35 years. Loving and loved by his family and friends. Served as a Major in the U.S. Army Medical Corps in France in World War II. We will cherish his memory always. Ellen, Jill, Joel, Sp
 VAADIA-Yoash. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the American Friends of the Hebrew University mourn with great sadness the passing of Professor Yoash Vaadia, former Vice-President and Director-General of the University and a Founder of the US-Israel Binational Agricultural Research and
 WEINSTEIN-Meyer, 83. Dec. 5, 1997. Formerly of Sarasota, FL and Chicago, IL. Loving husband of Ruth, cherished father of Laurel (Eugene) Eisner, Caryl (Barry) Mesch and the late Debi Jean (Marvin) Krout; adored grandfather of Sascha, Avi, Rachel Lisa, Rachel Lena, Louis Benjamin, Elana and 
 WRIGHT-Irving Sherwood, M.D. 96, died suddenly at home on December 8, 1997. He was the husband of the late Lois Elliman Wright, father of Barbara Wright Gatje, of New York City, and Alison Wright Cameron, of Bronxville; grandfather of Alexandra Lord Gatje, Douglas Wright Cameron, Marianna G
 Woodrow Wyatt, a high-living onetime Socialist politician and journalist who later turned abrasively against the left as a television presenter and conservative tabloid newspaper columnist, died on Sunday in London. Created Baron Wyatt of Weeford in 1987, he was 79. His passage from
 David K. Laniak, the chairman and chief executive of the ACC Corporation, an international telecommunications company, died on Friday at Strong Hospital in Rochester. He was 62. Mr. Laniak, a resident of Rush, N.Y., died from a blood clot in his lungs, a spokesman for the company sa
 Keith Piper, who as the coach at Denison University in Ohio perpetuated the single-wing football formation three decades after it had been discarded by just about everyone else, died Monday aboard a cruise ship off Florida. He was 76. Piper, who had been on the cruise with his wife,
 Laurean Cardinal Rugambwa, who in 1960 become the first African cardinal in the Roman Catholic Church, died Monday in Dar-es-Salaam, the Tanzanian Episcopal Conference announced. He was 85. His elevation to the College of Cardinals by Pope John XXIII was a signal of the church's rec
 ATTIE-Joseph N. The Staff Society of Long Island Jewish Medical Center deeply mourns the passing of its devoted friend and fellow member, Dr. Joseph Attie. Since 1954, the hospital has had the benefit of his counsel and dedication. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife and family. Dr
 BERNSTEIN-Irving. December 10, 1997. Beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Robert and Joseph. Grandfather of Shira, Roshelle, Jared and Carl. Dear brother of Frances Kaplan and loving uncle of seven nieces and nephews. Services Friday, 12 Noon, Garlick-Hellman Funeral Home, 1091 Yonke
 BOLENBAUGH-Thomas Ivan. Of New York City, December 9, 1997. Born July 19, 1946. He served as the City's Assistant Commissioner of the Division of Real Estate Services. Survived by his mother Ruth; stepfather J.P. Mullane; brother Scott (Mary); nephews Kyle and Sam. Preceded in death by his 
 CULLEN-Terry. On December 5, in his beloved New York City. Born in Dungannon, County Tyrone, Ireland. Longtime resident of Greenwich Village, independent, and one of the first computer programmers. A lover of literature, conversation and New York City. Survived by his sisters, Mary and Marg
 ENGELBERG-Rabbi Louis. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 FILLER-Juan, M.D. December 9, 1997. Born March 9, 1915 in Bahia Blanca, Argentina. Survived by his beloved wife Maria, loving children Carlota and Jorge, grandsons Samuel and Jason, and brothers Jaime and Roberto of Argentina. At his request, there will be no funeral services.       
 GREENBERG-Carl. Died peacefully at home at the age of 87. Beloved husband of sixty-four years of Sylvia. Devoted father of Herbert and Judy, daughter-in-law Barbara and son-in-law Shep. Loving grandfather of Gabrielle and Danny, Seth and Ilene, Eric and Elissa and Adam and Lauren. Cherished
 HOLMGREN-David Lucas, 68. Of Tenafly and South Mantoloking NJ, of Cancer on Demember 7, 1997. Survived by his wife, Edythe, sister Elizabeth Hendrickson of Kirkland, Wa., son David P. Holmgren of Tucson, daughter Dana Holmgren of Providence and four wonderful grandchildren. Memorial Service
 KLEINMAN-Philip. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LASSOE-John V.P. The Board and Staff of Forestdale Incorporated mourn the passing of their long-time Director, John V.P. Lassoe. Mr. Lassoe served on the Board for many years, demonstrating his unfailing concern for children and families. His death is a tremendous loss to all of us.       
 PRESTON-William Sanford, Jr. 78. Died on Sunday, December 7, at his home in Burlington, VT. Born in 1919, he attended Burlington schools and graduated from the University of Vermont. After serving in the army during World War II, Mr. Preston joined his father in the family's Burlington jewe
 SAX-Julius M. The Board of Trustees of Sanz Medical Center/ Laniado Hospital expresses deep sorrow on the passing of Julius Sax, generous benefactor, respected businessman, scion of a most illustrious family. Our heartfelt condolences to his esteemed children Helen and Dr. Daniel Potaznik, 
 SCHULTZ-Samuel M. Formerly of Miami and West Palm Beach, at the age of 90, passed peacefully in his daughter's home December 8, 1997. He was the beloved husband of Anne, father of Heather Greenfield and Carol Schulz, grandfather of Jennifer, Eden, Noah, and Jonah, and also survived by many 
 WRIGHT-Irving Sherwood, M.D. 96, died suddenly at home on December 8, 1997. He was the husband of the late Lois Elliman Wright, father of Barbara Wright Gatje, of New York City, and Alison Wright Cameron, of Bronxville; grandfather of Alexandra Lord Gatje, Douglas Wright Cameron, Marianna G
 Rudolf Bahro, who wrote a book that instantly made him one of East Germany's most prominent dissidents and later became an equally iconoclastic figure in West German politics, died on Friday in Berlin after a long battle with cancer. He was 62. A dedicated Marxist who believed socia
 Tibor Fabian, a founder of Mathematica Inc., a leading economics and public policy research institute in Princeton, N.J., died on Saturday at the age of 74. The cause of death was heart failure after a long illness, his son, Jonathan Fabian, said. Mr. Fabian, an economist, founded M
 Dr. Charles F. Code, a physiologist who overcame the effects of polio and other serious illnesses to enter medical research, where he made significant discoveries about the biochemistry of allergic reactions, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Del Mar, Calif. He was 87. In a wide-rangin
 Hal Lipset, a storied San Francisco sleuth who helped elevate, or rather reduce, electronic surveillance to a miniature art, died on Monday at a San Francisco hospital. He was 78 and was best known as the man who put a bug in a martini olive. Friends said the cause was heart failure
 Irving Bernstein, who was active in Jewish causes since the flight of Holocaust survivors to what became the State of Israel, died Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Bernstein was present at events and conferences t
 ATTIE-Joseph N., MD. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. Joseph N. Attie. Dr. Attie was a renowned head and neck surgeon. He was a consultant emeritus with the Division of Head and Neck Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center serving as Director 
 BARR-Samuel. On December 10, 1997, at Schenectady, NY. Son of the late Philip and Katherine Barr. He was pre-deceased by four brothers, Irving, Isadore, Louis and Joseph Barr, and a sister Sarah Barr. Services 12:15 PM Sunday at the Beth Israel Cemetery, Rotterdam, NY. For information conta
 BECK-Charles J. 99 years old. On September 11, in North Tarrytown. World War I pilot and engineering manager for Bell Telephone Labs. Survived by his nephew, Henry C. Beck of Walpole, NH, and family.       
 BERNSTEIN-Irving. The Board, Officers, and Staff at United Israel Appeal, Inc., mourn the passing of our chaver Irving Bernstein. He tirelessly dedicated his life to the reemergence of the State of Israel onto the stage of history. Irving was one of the early leaders who truly brought the J
 DOWNEY-James Stanley, who served almost three decades in the Army Nurse Corps and retired as a Lieutenant Colonel. Died on December 7 at age 69 in San Francisco. Mr. Downey worked as Chief Personnel Officer for the Surgeon General of the Army assigning nurses to posts around the world and g
 HENDRIX-Ellis H. Services for Ellis H. Hendrix, 81, of Lexington, S.C. will be held at 2:00 p.m. Saturday at St. John's Lutheran Church with burial in Arlington National Cemetery. Caughman - Harman Funeral Homes, Lexington Chapel is in charge. Memorials may be made to the Church. Mr. Hendri
 JAMPOL-Bernice. Anthony L. Watson, Chairman and CEO of HIP Health Plans, HIP'S Boards of Directors and its Medical Groups are deeply saddened by the passing of Bernice Jampol. Devoted wife of Dr. Jesse H. Jampol, former Medical Director for HIP. Mrs. Jampol was a loving wife, mother and gra
 OTT-David. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague David Ott, Vice President, Ambulatory Operations, The Mount Sinai Hospital. David joined Mount Sinai in 1993 following five years as a senior adm
 WHITE-John F., Jr. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical and Dental Staff of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center express their profound sorrow on the death of John F. White, Jr., former President of the Board of Directors and Founding Board Member of the Medical Center. Mr
 WRIGHT-Irving Sherwood, M.D. 96, died suddenly at home on December 8, 1997. He was the husband of the late Lois Elliman Wright, father of Barbara Wright Gatje, of New York City, and Alison Wright Cameron, of Bronxville; grandfather of Alexandra Lord Gatje, Douglas Wright Cameron, Marianna G
 Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, a Communist intellectual who forged a crucial alliance between Fidel Castro's bearded followers and Cuba's Moscow-line Communists and later served on the Politburo and as Deputy President, died Monday in Havana. He was 84. Mr. Rodriguez suffered from Parkins
 John Fitting Jr., a Dreyfus Corporation executive and pioneer in the creation of no-load mutual funds in the early 1970's, died Wednesday at his retirement home on Marco Island, Fla. He was 81. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his wife, Judith Kingsley Fitting. I
 Jorge Castaneda de la Rosa, who as Mexico's Foreign Minister from 1979 to 1982 led his country into an assertively independent posture toward the United States and sought to strengthen ties with Central America and Cuba, died here on Thursday of complications from diabetes. He was 76.      
 ATTIE-Joseph N. MD. The members of the Great Neck Camera Club mourn the sudden passing of one of its members, Dr. Joseph Attie, whose talents as a Photographer and Artist matched his skill and prominence as a surgeon, and warmth as a human being. Gerald Appel, Pres.       
 BERNSTEIN-Irving. I was deeply saddened to learn of the untimely passing of my dear friend Irving Bernstein. This marks the end of an era of great Jewish leaders. Since 1946, Irving worked tirelessly, devoting his life to ensuring the welfare and survival of the Jewish people. I had the pri
 CHASSLER-Sey. December 11, 1997. Wonderful husband of Natalie, loving father of Joseph, Philip and Deborah. Caring father-in-law of David Lucal and Louise Cody. Adored grandfather of Zach, Nora, Ben, Daniel and Hannah. Devoted twin brother of Vivienne Schwartz. Good friend and mentor to man
 CUNNINGHAM-Belton. The President and the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center note with profound sorrow the death of Belton Cunningham, beloved husband of Dr. Anita Cunningham, an esteemed member of our Board of Trustees. We extend our sincere and heartfelt condolences to his wife
 GOHDES-Clarence L.F. Noted author, pioneer scholar of American Literature, and James B. Duke Professor of English emeritus at Duke University, died December 8th. He received his Ph.D. from Columbia. He joined the English Department at Duke University in 1930, retiring in 1971. An expert on 
 HUGHES-Mark F. Of Elberon, NJ, also of New York City, N.Y., on December 10, 1997. Husband of the late Annette (nee Morgan) Hughes. Father of Mark F. Hughes, Jr., John J. Hughes, Annette ''Toni'' Hillary and Mary Jane Moeller. Brother of Paul Hughes and Jack F. Hughes. Grandfather of eight. 
 OTT-David R. The faculty of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the tragic and premature loss of our dear friend and colleague, Mr. David R. Ott. David was a brilliant and innovative medical administrator, who devoted his career to improving t
 TEPPER-Julian C., 82. Passed away December 10, 1997. Mr. Tepper is survived by his wife, Olive. Funeral services will be Saturday, December 13, 1997. Interment at Rockwald Memorial Cemetery.       
 WHITE-John F. Age 82, of Sayville, LI, on December 11, 1997. Survived by his wife Jeanne H. White; his daughters Susan Callahan, Janet Foster and Rosemary White-Trout; his sisters Jeanne Ehrhardt, Catherine Thom and Nancy Meyer and ten grandchildren. Reposing at Raynor & D'Andrea Funeral Ho
 WILVERS-Robert W., 65. Died at home, December 10, 1997. Loving father of Roberta Wilvers of New York City and Tracy Cassidy of Framingham, Massachusetts. Loving owner of Henrietta Wilvers and beloved grandfather of Aidan Cassidy. His death is a tremendous loss to all of us. Memorial service
 WRIGHT-Irving Sherwood, M.D. 96, died suddenly at home on December 8, 1997. He was the husband of the late Lois Elliman Wright, father of Barbara Wright Gatje, of New York City, and Alison Wright Cameron, of Bronxville; grandfather of Alexandra Lord Gatje, Douglas Wright Cameron, Marianna G
 William W. Winpisinger, a fiery, left-leaning labor leader who battled management, politicians and sometimes his fellow unionists as president of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, died on Thursday at a hospital in Howard County, Md. He turned 73 on Wednesday
 Abraham Bluestein, who made his living as a social services administrator while devoting his life to keeping an old anarchist dream alive, died on Dec. 3 at a nursing home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 88. He may not rank with Proudhon, Bakunin, Malatesta, Kropotkin and other gia
 Morton Bard, who was widely known for his research on the psychology of crime victims, died on Thursday at his home in Atlanta. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said David H. Manning, a spokesman for the City University of New York, where Dr. Bard was a psychology professor before h
 BERMAN-David. We mourn the loss of a special and caring person who dedicated himself to the values and ideals of tzedekah and chesed. His deep commitment to strengthen the state of Israel and provide its people with compassionate and quality health care was evident through his endowment of 
 CHASSLER-Sey. December 11, 1997. Wonderful husband of Natalie, loving father of Joseph, Philip and Deborah. Caring father-in-law of David Lucal and Louise Cody. Adored grandfather of Zach, Nora, Ben, Daniel and Hannah. Devoted twin brother of Vivienne Schwartz. Good friend and mentor to man
 COHEN-Alfred. Of Scarsdale, NY, and Pompano Beach, Fla. On December 6, 1997. Born September 15, 1911 in NYC, the first born of Mary and Irving Cohen, beloved husband of Yvette Marcus and the late Irma Doris, loving father of Edward and Michael, grandfather of Ian, and brother of Dr. Leonard
 CUNNINGHAM-Belton. The President and the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center note with profound sorrow the death of Belton Cunningham, beloved husband of Dr. Anita Cunningham, an esteemed member of our Board of Trustees. We extend our sincere and heartfelt condolences to his wife
 DeMARCO-Paddy. Former lightweight boxer and champion died December 11, 1997 in Salt Lake City, UT. His endurance, tenacity and love of his profession will be remembered by those who knew him, especially his loving family.       
 HARRIS-William A. Beloved husband of Martha, cherished father of Helen, loving uncle of Peter, Daisy, Hanna and Gabriel. Devoted godfather of Eric. His zest for life and dedication and love for his family, church, friends, work and country will be deeply missed by all. A memorial service is
 HUGHES-Mark F. The Board of Trustees and Officers of the Joseph Collins Foundation deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed and beloved President and friend Mark F. Hughes. His wisdom and guidance will be missed by all of us. Our sincere and heartfelt condolences to his family. Dr. W. Graha
 KRICH-Max H. On December 13, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Ruth Weil Krich. Loving father of Edith K. Comins of Briarcliff Manor, NY, and Claire Hooton of East Hampton, NY. He is also survived by four grandsons and five greatgrandchildren. Interment private.       
 MARSH-Robert Edward, Jr. Died suddenly at age 83 at his home in Forest Hills, New York, on December 11, 1997. Born on June 6, 1914, the son of Robert Edward Marsh and Grace Sophronia Marsh, nee Rollinson. Served in the U.S. Army during World War II on the staff of General Douglas MacArthur.
 OAKMAN-Carl, MD. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Carl Oakman, MD, a longtime attending physician and past President of the Medical Board. He was a beloved and revered colleague to a generation of surgeons who are able to appreciate and learn f
 SCHLESSINGER-Richard H. December 11, 1997 in Rochester, NY. Professor of Chemistry at the University of Rochester since 1963. He is survived by his wife, Lisa M. Demeter; brother Edward D. Schlessinger of CA; nieces, uncle and aunts. Friends may call Sunday, 2-4, 7-9 PM at the Anthony Funer
 WHITE-John F. Age 82, of Sayville, LI, on December 11, 1997. Survived by his wife Jeanne H. White; his daughters Susan Callahan, Janet Foster and Rosemary White-Trout; his sisters Jeanne Ehrhardt, Catherine Thom and Nancy Meyer and ten grandchildren. Reposing at Raynor & D'Andrea Funeral Ho
 WINPISINGER-William. A member of the LRA National Advisory Committee and award winner. A great leader of American workers and labor. We will carry on his audacity and fighting spirit. Board of Directors Labor Research Association Greg Tarpinian, Executive Director       
 WRIGHT-Irving Sherwood, M.D. 96, died suddenly at home on December 8, 1997. He was the husband of the late Lois Elliman Wright, father of Barbara Wright Gatje, of New York City, and Alison Wright Cameron, of Bronxville; grandfather of Alexandra Lord Gatje, Douglas Wright Cameron, Marianna G
 Chauncey J. Medberry 3d, a former chairman of Bank of America and its parent, the BankAmerica Corporation, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles after a brief illness, Mike Zampa, a Bank of America spokesman, said. He was 80. A native of Los Angeles, Mr. Medberry spent his enti
 Dr. Louis Gluck, a pediatrician who developed the modern neonatal intensive care unit, died on Nov. 29 in Saddleback Memorial Hospital in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Laguna Hills. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Gluck ''was certainly among the majo
 ABBOTT-Forrest L. Barnard College notes with sorrow the passing of Forrest L. (''Duke'') Abbott on November 22, 1997, at the age of 90. For 23 years-between 1953 and 1976-he served as Barnard's Treasurer and Controller, overseeing the financial administration of the College as well as a sig
 CONNELL-Patrick, Jr., M.D. We mourn the December 8th death of our classmate, Pat Connell. A man of great intellect and accomplishment, he filled our lives with laughter and friendship. We send heartfelt condolences to his brother Randy, his parents and family. Members of Swarthmore Class of
 CURNEN-Edward C., Jr., M.D. The Department of Pediatrics of the Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and the Alumni Association of Babies & Children's Hospital of New York pay tribute to their esteemed and beloved colleague who died on December 1, 1997, at 88 years of age in
 FREEMAN-Clarence W., Jr. Of New York, NY, and Sherman, CT. Died at his home on December 12, at age 89. Graduate of Horace Mann. Attended Brown University. Served in the US Army in Europe during World War II. He is survived by his daughter Rosario Delgado and her husband Manuel; his nephew F
 GIANNELLI-William H. 87 of Boca Raton, FL died at home on Tuesday, December 9, 1997. Born in NYC, he resided there until 1951, when he and his family moved to Westchester County. Between 1978 and 1986 the Giannellis were residents of Bronxville, New York. Mr. Giannelli was a Partner of John
 GORDON-David Alex. Age 83, died in New York City, on December 2, 1997. He is survived by his wife Lillian, son Robert, daughterin-law Sophie and grandchildren Rachel and Benjamin. During a long career as a journalist he worked for the Brooklyn Eagle, Stars and Stripes during World War II, t
 KENT-Nelson. Age 93. Beloved husband of Elsie and loving father of Alexandra Selesnick and Nelson Kent, Jr. Proud grandfather of Joshua, Benjamin and Jordan Selesnick. Funeral services will be held at the Brick Church, 91st Street and Park Avenue, at 12 noon, Thursday, December 18. Contribu
 KRICH-Max H. On December 13, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Ruth Weil Krich. Loving father of Edith K. Comins of Briarcliff Manor, NY, and Claire Hooton of East Hampton, NY. He is also survived by four grandsons and five greatgrandchildren. Interment private.       
 MOTZKIN-Arthur P. Died December 13, 1997, at home in Boca Raton, FL. Born May 27, 1922, in New Rochelle, NY. Former President of Kingston Oil Supply Co. (KOSCO), Kingston, NY. Survived by his beloved wife Marilyn; children Nancy (Richard) Schulman, Judith (Richard Mandel), and Barry (Heidi)
 OTT-David. Vice President, Ambulatory Services, Mount Sinai Hospital. The staff of the Adolescent Health Center expresses deep sorrow at the passing of our friend and colleague, David Ott. David was a visionary leader dedicated to assuring community access to high quality, comprehensive amb
 RAFELD-Gabriel. In loving memory. Adoring husband of Ann for 51 years, devoted Dad to Rosie, Marvin and Dwight. Proud Pa to Nicole, Michael, Samantha, Marc, Daniel and Pamela. He survived the Holocaust to live life with a vital gusto. He taught us how to enjoy life and respect the rights of
 TAFFET-Nathan. Beloved husband of Esta. Devoted father of Ronnie and Sandy. Father-in-law of Nancy. Loving grandfather of Scott and Andrew. Dear brother of Fay Fine and Stanley Taffet. Services Tuesday, at 12:30 PM, at Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. TAFFET
 Samuel Grafton, a liberal voice in American journalism from the 1940's into the 1960's, died on Dec. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Grafton, who continued to contribute to national magazines into the 1980's, became widely known through his syndicated column, ''I'd Rather
 Walter James Levy, a New York-based oil consultant who was considered the dean of United States oil economists, died Wednesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 86. In a business charged with intrigue and fierce rivalries, Mr. Levy was respected for his integri
 William E. Slesnick, a professor emeritus of mathematics at Dartmouth College, who wrote about 15 textbooks on the subject for the secondary and college level, died on Nov. 25 at Kendal at Hanover, a retirement home in the New Hampshire town. A resident of Hanover, he was 72. He had
 Jerome R. Mintz, an author and professor emeritus of anthropology and Jewish studies at Indiana University, died on Nov. 22 at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 67. In 1993, Professor Mintz received a National Jewish Book Award for ''Hasidic People: A Place in the New World.'' He
 Louis Loss, a professor of law at Harvard University who was widely viewed as the father of securities law, died on Saturday at the Beth Israel-Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 83. A Harvard spokesman said Mr. Loss, who lived in Cambridge, Mass., died of congestive heart failure
 CHASSLER-Sey. The staff of ''Lilith'', the independent Jewish women's magazine, mourns the untimely death of Sey Chassler, esteemed member of Lilith's Journalism Advisory Board and longtime friend of the magazine. Our condolences to his loving family. Susan Weidman Schneider Editor-in-Chief
 GOODMAN-Leon M. On Saturday December 13, 1997 at his home in New York. Born January 6, 1908 in Philadelphia. Beloved husband of the late Minnie Gabriel Goodman and the late Gertrude Morgenstern Greenberg. Devoted father of David and Judith and dear grandfather of Joseph, Jeannette, Laura an
 HOCHBERG-Milton. Beloved husband of the late Ethel. Devoted father of Harriet and the late Marion Friedman. Dear brother of Vivian Swick and the late Howard Hochberg. Loving grandfather of David Friedman. Services were held on December 15, 1997. He will be missed by all.       
 KRICH-Max H. On December 13, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Ruth Weil Krich. Loving father of Edith K. Comins of Briarcliff Manor, NY, and Claire Hooton of East Hampton, NY. He is also survived by four grandsons and five greatgrandchildren. Interment private.       
 NORRY-Neil. The Board of Directors, Faculty and Staff of CLALThe National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership mourn the passing of Neil Norry, our esteemed past Chairman and Board member. He was deeply caring and committed to the Jewish community, and his advice and counsel will be gr
 OTT-David, Vice-President of Ambulatory Services, The Mount Sinai Medical Center. The Faculty and Staff of the Department of Surgery joins the entire Mount Sinai family in mourning the loss of an extraordinary colleague. We will remember his intelligence, humor, and commitment to excellence
 PARKER-Dennis. Beloved husband and best friend of Micki. Loving father of Scott, Stacy and Nanci. Grandfather of four. Family mourns his loss after a courageous battle against cancer.       
 SHAIO-Victor, 80. Died on December 13, 1997, at his home in New York after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Anne, his son Alberto Shaio of Greenwich, CT., his three daughters, Flory Anzellini of Manalapan, FL., Diana Keevan of San Francisco, CA., and Joyce Mitrani of Bogota, Colo
 TAFFET-Nathan. Beloved husband of Esta. Devoted father of Ronnie and Sandy. Father-in-law of Nancy. Loving grandfather of Scott and Andrew. Dear brother of Fay Fine and Stanley Taffet. Services Tuesday, at 12:30 P.M., at Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. TAFF
 TENZER-Milton, 78, of West End, New Jersey, left this life on December 13, 1997. Sailing from Poland as a toddler, he grew up in Island Park, NY. Mr. Tenzer was a graduate of Cooper Union in electrical engineering. His career in research and development of electronic and telecommunications 
 WEBSTER-Donald Colin ''Ben''. Founder and Chairman of Helix Investments. Ben passed away on Saturday, December 13, 1997 in Toronto. He was born in Montreal, son of the late Colin W. Webster and Jean (Frosst) Webster. Service Friday, December 19, 1:00 at St. Paul's Anglican Church, Toronto. 
 Stubby Kaye, the cherubic comedian and singer who was Nicely-Nicely Johnson in the original ''Guys and Dolls'' and who joined Nat King Cole as an on-screen banjo chorus crooning the ballad of Cat Ballou, died Sunday in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where he lived. He was 79. Though Mr. Kay
 William Francis Knight, who established one of the nation's first orange juice processing plants, died on Nov. 24 at his home in Port Charlotte, Fla. He was 93. Mr. Knight received his first big break into business while attending Miami High School in the early 1920's. He took an af
 Charles E. Smith, a publisher of scholarly books and reference works, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Colt's Neck, N.J. He was 60. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Denise, said. Mr. Smith began his career at the Macmillan publishing company, where he worked his way up from
 Don E. Fehrenbacher, a Pulitzer Prize-winning authority on Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War, died on Saturday, in Stanford, Calif. He was 77 and lived on campus at Stanford University, where he had taught history. Professor Fehrenbacher won the Pulitzer Prize for history in 1979 fo
 Francis Paudras, a commercial artist, author, collector of jazz-related artifacts and patron of jazz musicians, including the pianist Bud Powell, died on Nov. 26 at his castle in Antigny, France. He was 62. He committed suicide, the newspaper Le Figaro reported. While in his
 John M. Braisted Jr., Staten Island's District Attorney from 1956 until he stepped down at the end of 1975, died on Dec. 9 at the home of his son, James, in West Brighton, Staten Island, where he had stayed for six days. He was 90 and lived on Staten Island in Silver Lake for more than 65 y
 BEREANO-Leon. Beloved husband of Beatrice for 60 years. Devoted father of Philip and Bruce. Loving grandfather of Joshua and Bryon. Services Thursday, December 18, at The Riverdale Temple, West 246 Street and Independence Avenue. BEREANO-Leon P. The Rabbi, Cantor, Officers, Executiv
 GOODMAN-Irwin, 79. Of Delray Beach, Florida. formerly of NYC. Survived by wife Claire, children Lonnie (Amy) and Lori (Paul Boyd) Goodman. Grandchildren, Adam, Lindsay, Isaac, Michael and Emmett. A brother Edwin and sisters, Ruth and Hannah. He was greatly loved and will be greatly missed. 
 HANEMAN-W. F. (Woof), Jr. Of Rye, N.Y. Died on Monday, December 15, 1997 of a massive heart attack. He was 50 years old. He was a Senior Vice President and a former Director of Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc., of New York. Devoted husband of Nancy Jacobs Haneman to whom he was married for twen
 KAPLAN-Bertram H. On December 11, 1997 in Jacksonville Fl. Deeply loved by his wife, children and stepchildren, grandchildren and step grandchildren, sister, nieces and nephew, grand nieces and grand nephews, cousins, and many friends and acquaintances. He made each and everyone of us feel 
 LOFRESE-Raymond. The Officers, Executive Board, and Members of The Association of Contracting Plumbers of The City of New York, Inc, mourns the passing of our member Raymond LoFrese, of Olympic Plumbing and Heating Corp. Mr. LoFrese, over the years, made a valuable contribution to the plumb
 LYLE-Max. Born in New York City, January 30, 1906 to Ben and Sarah Levy, died Sunday, December 14, 1997. A resident of Mission Viejo, CA., Max was a graduate of N.Y.U. School of Law, practiced as an attorney in civil law and later as a naval engineer. His hobby was Chinese brush painting. M
 NORRY-Neil. The officers and staff of the Masorti Foundation for Conservative Judaism in Israel mourn the death of our founding President and Chair of our Council of Trustees. His insight, passion for Judaism and Israel and commitment to the Masorti Movement are an inspiration to us all. Ou
 OPPENHEIM-Stephen A. Dec. 16, 1997, beloved husband of Annette, father of Stephen and Jeffrey, grandfather of Kara and Jesse. Services Thursday 1:30 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, NY, NY. OPPENHEIM-Stephen A. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound
 ROSNER-Irving S. Cherished husband of Risha, beloved father of Amy and David. Services are tomorrow at noon at Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York. ROSNER-Irving S. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time m
 W. Gray Mattern Jr., a retired executive secretary of the European Council of International Schools and former headmaster of Wilbraham Academy, died on Nov. 26 at Greenwich Hospital. He was 70 and lived in Stamford, Conn. The cause was a pneumococcal infection, his family said.     
 BIGGS-George Pearson. Age 91, of Southport, CT., died on Monday, December 15th, 1997. He was a graduate of the Hill School and Yale University. Survivors include his wife, Jane Shaw Biggs of Southport; sons, G. Whitney Biggs and his wife, Pauline, of Southport; and James P. Biggs and his wi
 CARLSON-Philip E. April 18, 1943December 15, 1997. We mourn the loss of a special and caring man dedicated to the arts. Formerly of East 79th Street and a graduate of Parsons School of Design, Philip and his beloved wife Jane continued the love of the arts with their store. The Carlson Coll
 DiGIOVANNA-Anthony J. Retired Justice of The Supreme Court of New York State. Died Dec. 16, 1997 at home. Survived by his beloved wife Tigelia, dear sister of Rose Liotta, devoted children John C. DiGiovanna, Nina La Bruna, Honorable Maria DiGiovanna, eight grandchildren and seven great gra
 GOUILLOUD-Michel. Scientist, Socialist. Died November 16, 1997 at Plantat in Quissac, France. He was loved by Patrice M. Regnier.       
 KENNEY-Charles A. The National Realty Club mourns the passing of Charles A. Kenney, a founding member, governor and one of the guiding lights of the organization, founded in 1947. Even when the real estate industry went through difficult times, Mr. Kenney was instrumental in stregthening ou
 LAUB-Ernest. Died December 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Devoted father of Alane and Linda. Father-in-law of Neal Gartenberg. Grandfather of Adam and Scott. Your love, kindness, gentle wit and wisdom got us all through the ''trials and tribulations'' of life. You will be sorely misse
 LYNTON-Mark. Beloved husband of Marion, father of Michael and Lili, grandfather of Claire, Nina, Kate, Eloise, Maisie. Visitation December 18, 19 from 2 to 4, 48 W. 70 St., December 20, 21, 11:30 to 2:30 961 Fenimore Road, Larchmont. LYNTON-Mark. The board and staff of The American 
 MECHCATIE-Reza, M.D. Born in Rasht, Iran on July 7, 1929, to the late Abdullah and Marzieh Mizrameshkatikhan, died in Rye, New York on December 16, 1997. A graduate of the University of Tehran and the University of Paris Medical School, Dr. Mechcatie was an internist and cardiologist with a
 MUGDAN-Ernest J. Of Queens, NY. Died peacefully at home, in his sleep, Dec. 17. Beloved father of Ursula and Walter; father-in-law of Vivienne; and grandfather of Willow & Elana. Memorial service at Community Church of Douglaston, 39-50 Douglaston Parkway, Douglaston, NY 11363, Saturday, Ja
 OPPENHEIM-Stephen. Congregation Kol Ami of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member, and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Cantor Annie Bornstein-Howard Mark Hershey, President OPPENHEIM-Stephen A. Th
 STIX-Edgar. Died at home December 16. Loving and beloved husband of Carol, devoted father of Allen, Wayne, Roger and Gail. Father-in-law of Robert Way and Jane Share. Life-long resident of Scarsdale, New York, served in Submarine Force in World War II, dedicated his life to family and close
 Ralph Fasanella, who worked as a union organizer, a machinist and a gas station owner but whose lasting fame will be as a late-blooming, self-taught painter of teeming urban panoramas, died on Tuesday at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. He was 83 and lived in Ardsley, N.Y. 
 Roger Brown, who turned the attention of many psychologists to the question of how children learn language and who wrote two classic  psychology textbooks, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 72. Dr. Brown had been suffering from prostate cancer and coronary arter
 Anthony T. Ulasewicz, the ''bagman'' whose deadpan accounts of delivering money to buy the silence of Watergate conspirators both fascinated and delighted Senate investigators, died on Wednesday in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 79. Mr. Ulasewicz died in a hospital, a newspaper in Saratog
 Chris Farley, a comedian and actor who hammed his way through skits and sketches on ''Saturday Night Live'' as everything from a frenzied motivational speaker to a giddy strip-club dancer, was found dead yesterday in his apartment in Chicago. He was 33. The cause was not immediately
 Lester R. Tuchman, a New York internist, medical researcher and emeritus professor of clinical medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, died on Wednesday at his home in Cos Cob, Conn. He was 93. Dr. Tuchman retired in 1979 from private practice on the East Side. Durin
 Newbold Noyes Jr., who as editor of The Washington Evening Star from 1963 to 1975 was the last member of four generations of his family to lead the newspaper, died yesterday in Sorrento, Me. He was 79. Mr. Noyes had heart problems, said a son, Newbold Noyes 3d. The Noyes fam
 DE SOUZA-Rev. Fr. Herbert A. Peacefully went to his Heavenly Father on Monday, December 15, 1997, at 7:30 A.M., in Los Angeles. Fr. de Souza was a loving brother and son to his family, and a faithful Jesuit who spent his life in the service of others, especially the poor and downtrodden of 
 DiGIOVANNA-Justice Anthony J. The Board of Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, First District, notes with sadness the passing of our esteemed former colleague, Justice Anthony J. Di Giovanna. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife and to the other members of his family. Be
 FASANELLA-Ralph. The Officers and staff of 1199 National Health & Human Service Employees Union mourn the passing of a true artist of the people in the tradition of Paul Robeson and Woody Guthrie. Ralph was a dedicated labor union organizer who fought in Spain with the Abraham Lincoln Briga
 GOUILLOUD-Michel. Scientist, Socialist. Died November 16, 1997 at Plantat in Quissac, France. He was loved by Patrice M. Regnier.       
 HOLTZMAN-Sidney. December 18, 1997, in his 89th year. Beloved husband of Filia Holtzman. Dear father of Dr. Robert N. N. Holtzman and Elizabeth Holtzman. Adored grandfather of Maia, Jonathan and Matthew. Cherished brother of Anna Yoskowitz. Services Sunday, December 21, 11 AM at ''The River
 HUGHES-Mark F. The Board of Directors of the New York County Lawyers' Association mourns the passing of Mark F. Hughes, former president of the Association (1965-1967), who died Wednesday, December 10 at the age of ninetytwo. During his term, NYCLA established the William Nelson Cromwell Aw
 KENNEY-F. Donald. Suddenly on Dec. 17, 1997. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Jean Baptiste Church, Lexington Ave. at 76 St, Monday, December 22, 10:00 A.M. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the National Academy of Design, NYC, or St. Bonaventur
 LAUB-Ernest. Died December 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Devoted father of Alane and Linda. Father-in-law of Neal Gartenberg. Grandfather of Adam and Scott. Your love, kindness, gentle wit and wisdom got us all through the ''trials and tribulations'' of life. You will be sorely misse
 LEVY-Ezra. The Department of Pathology of The Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, mourns the death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Ezra Levy, Assistant Professor. As the Director of The Chemistry Laboratories of our affiliate, The Bronx Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Dr. Levy organized and manag
 NARKISS-Uzi. We deeply mourn the passing of General (Res.) Uzi Narkiss, a former member of the W.Z.O. executive and head of the Zionist delegation to North America. He has been dedicated to a life-long heroic military career in the Israel Defense Forces, culminating in the liberation of Jer
 STILLMAN-Edgar. Dec. 16, 1997. Scholar and teacher of English at the Elizabeth Irwin School and the Scarborough School. Husband of the late Joan Pratt. He is survived by his children, Madeline Iswalt, Joseph Stillman, Jaffray Cuyler, Susanna Cuyler, his grandchildren, Eli, Samuel, Richard a
 STIX-Edgar. Died at home December 16. Loving and beloved husband of Carol, devoted father of Allen, Wayne, Roger and Gail. Father-in-law of Robert Way and Jane Share. Life-long resident of Scarsdale, New York, served in Submarine Force in World War II, dedicated his life to family and close
 TUCHMAN-Lester R., 93. Died on December 17 at his home in Connecticut. Pre-deceased by his wife Barbara, loving brother of Martha and Lucille, adored father of Lucy, Jessica and Alma and doctor, friend and helper to hundreds. The world has lost a huge heart. In lieu of flowers, contribution
 R. V. Jones, a secret hero of British intelligence in World War II, whose genius for scientific tricks baffled German bombers and saved thousands of lives, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Woodend Hospital in Aberdeen, Scotland. He was 86. A master practical joker, puzzle-solv
 Uzi Narkiss, an Israeli Army general who led the conquest of East Jerusalem in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, died today. He was 72 and had cancer. General Narkiss was regarded as the last of the generation of Jews who fought in the pre-independence militia known as the Palmach, which e
 Anthony T. Ulasewicz, the onetime New York City police detective who injected merriment into the Senate Watergate hearings a quarter-century ago by telling of his adventures and misadventures as a ''bagman,'' died on Wednesday in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 79. Mr. Ulasewicz had spent 
 Chester Baylis Jr., who spent 44 years as an executive of the Bankers Trust New York Corporation, died of cancer on Nov. 25 at his home in Locust, N.J. He was 89. Mr. Baylis, who joined the bank after graduating from Princeton University in 1929, was chairman of Bankers Trust's exec
 Eddie Chapman, a notorious British safecracker who hoodwinked German intelligence in World War II -- winning the Nazis' Iron Cross for bravery while serving as a double agent for Britain -- died on Dec. 11 at a nursing home in Brickett Wood, near London. He was 83. Displaying a tale
 Jack Bruen, the men's basketball coach at Colgate University who inspired fans and alumni with his determination to coach this season despite suffering from pancreatic cancer, died yesterday at his home in Hamilton, N.Y. He was 48. Bruen coached his final game last Saturday, an 80-6
 Jimmy Rogers, one of the most significant figures in the history of electric blues, died yesterday at Holy Cross Hospital in Chicago. He was 73  and lived in Chicago. The cause was complications after surgery for an intestinal infection, said his manager, Tom Radai. Mr. Roge
 Masaru Ibuka, a low-key engineer who co-founded one of Japan's greatest postwar successes, the Sony Corporation, died yesterday at his home in Tokyo. Mr. Ibuka, who was 89, died from heart failure, Sony said in an announcement. Guided by Mr. Ibuka, Sony helped establish Japa
 Owen Barfield, a writer and philosopher of language and the last surviving member of the Inklings, a group of Oxford intellectuals who held passionate discussions about Christianity and mythology at C. S. Lewis's house between the world wars, died at home in East Sussex, England, on Sunday,
 BARRETT-Paul H. Of New Caanan, CT. On December 12, 1997, in Tibet, while on a two month volunteer trip with the International Executive Corp to help reform the Chinese banking system. He was formerly with Bankers Trust and Bank Leu. Survived by his wife May Chang Barrett, daughter Anne Cath
 BASKIN-Herbert ''Colonel''. Beloved husband of Libby. Devoted father to Susan, Ellen, Martin, David and Lois. Adoring grandfather to Charlotte, Julia, Nathan, William, Zachary, Jesse, Rebeccah and Sam. Loving brother to Rhoda. Cherished brother-in-law, uncle, cousin and friend. He lived a l
 FASANELLA-Ralph. The officers and members of the United Electrical Workers (UE) mourn the passing of co-worker Ralph Fasanella. As a UE member and organizer, Ralph was dedicated to our union's principles. His depiction of UE scenes in his paintings is a source of pride, but we also rejoice 
 GLANTERNIK-Meyer. Beloved husband of the late Laura. Devoted father of Aileen and Alvin Murstein and Henry and Karen. Adored grandfather of Andrew and Barbara; Amie, Diana and Julia. Adoring great-grandfather of Kimberly. Services Sunday 9:45 AM, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amst
 KENNEY-F. Donald. Suddenly on Dec. 17, 1997. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Jean Baptiste Church, Lexington Ave. at 76 St, Monday, December 22, 10:00 A.M. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the National Academy of Design, NYC, or St. Bonaventur
 NICCOLI-Reverend Andrew. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired parochial vicar of Most Precious Blood Church, 32-23 36th St., Long Island City, On December 18. Reposing in Thomas M. Quinn & Sons Funeral Home, 32-20 Broadway, Long Island City, Sunday, Dec. 21, 2-5 P.M. M
 RENARD-Neal. Died peacefully on Dec. 18, in Florida. Beloved husband of Pauline. Devoted father of Susan and Bruce Renard. Loving stepfather of Adrienne and Jeffrey Saporta, Janet and Bruce Adler, and Rita and Dick Singer. Grandfather of Cutler. A funeral was held on Dec. 19. He will be mis
 SMITH-Calvin Otis. Of Glenwood Landing, Long Iisland, on December 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Patricia F., loving father of Margaret S. Larom, David M., Elizabeth C. and Mary W. Grandfather of Julia and Natalie Smith, Christopher and Daisy Larom. Fond step-father of Glenn Pearsall. Loving 
 STERNTHAL-Paul. Loving father to Julian; brother to David and Nancy, Karen and Riva, Suzi and Bob; uncle to Christopher, Nicholas, Tyler Jones, Morgan, Sarah, Esther; stepfather to Debbie, Donna, William; grandfather to Pua, Randy Jr., Drew. Loyal and passionate friend to countless many. He
 TUCHMAN-Lester R., M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague Lester R. Tuchman, M.D., Clinical Professor Emeritus in Medicine, whose association with Mount Sinai spanned seven decades. After earning his medical 
 TUCKER-Robert A. December 18, 1997, of Marietta, OK (formerly of Dumont, NJ and Mt. Vernon, NY). Beloved father of Mary Ellen Nitti, Patricia T. Frederiks, Jeanne T. Milovic, Robert M. and Daniel C. Tucker, devoted brother of Elizabeth Treacy and the late Mary Anne Angelini, John J. and Tho
 VELTRI-Michelangelo. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our esteemed colleague and friend, Michelangelo Veltri, who led more than one hundred performances with the company over nearly one quarter of a century. We shall miss him, and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Joseph 
 Anthony J. DiGiovanna, a retired Justice of the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, died Tuesday at his home in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn. He was 92. Justice DiGiovanna joined the State Supreme Court in 1949 and served on that bench for 27 years, until he retired as a justice 
 David Howard Harris, a retired New Jersey lawyer who was a prosecutor and administrative judge in state and Federal government, died last Sunday at the Hospice of West Palm Beach in Florida. He was 89 and had lived in Morris Plains, N.J. Mr. Harris was an assistant prosecutor for Be
 Dr. Ernst F. Jokl, a founder of sports medicine in Germany, South Africa and then the United States, died last Saturday in St. Joseph Hospital in Lexington, Ky. He was 90. In an earlier time, sports injuries, like many other medical problems, were handled by general practitioners. N
 Dr. Irving S. Wright, the first doctor to use an anticoagulant to treat the blood clots that can cause heart attacks and strokes, died on Dec. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 96. Dr. Wright, a cardiologist and former president of the American Heart Association, retired in 1968 fr
 Leo August, who developed a boyhood stamp collection and a fascination with airplanes into a prominent philatelic publishing house, died on Dec. 4 at the St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 83. Mr. August and his older brother Sam were the founders of the Washingt
 BASKIN-Herbert ''Colonel''. Beloved husband of Libby. Devoted father to Susan, Ellen, Martin, David and Lois. Adoring grandfather to Charlotte, Julia, Nathan, William, Zachary, Jesse, Rebeccah and Sam. Loving brother to Rhoda. Cherished brother-in-law, father-in-law, uncle, cousin and frien
 COBURN-Charles E., of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of New York City, died peacefully on December 7, 1997. Son of the late Charles Coburn and Ruth Earnshaw Coburn, brother of the late Robert L. Coburn and the late Constance C. Busch. Uncle to Peter, Connie, Lane, Connie and Stuart. A privat
 CROSSEN-John E. Died October 20th, 1997 in Carmel, California. Husband of Isabel, father of Ken Crossen, Kathleen Reinhart and Cynthia Crossen and brother of Charles. Former Vice-President of General Foods and H.J. Heinz. Contributions to the donor's favorite charity. We'll miss him.       
 DAVIS-Jonas M., DDS. 83. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Great Neck, N.Y., on December 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Lillian, loving father of Barbara Haskell, MD; Bruce and Kent Davis. Brother of Rebecca Shore. Also survived by nine grandchildren and a granddaughter. NYU Dental School Clas
 FINE-Saul. We mourn the death of Saul Fine, beloved husband of Lilian Fine (nee Bresler), loving father and father-in-law of Janet Fine and Sanford Sward, David J. Fine and Barbara Goldman; devoted and loving grandfather of Barbara and Brian Gontarski and Brian Sward, and Isaac, Aaron and E
 GOLDBLATT-Benjamin. On December 19, 1997. Devoted and loving husband, father, grandfather and brother. Pioneering sales manager of Exquisite Form Industries for 45 years. His devotion to family and distinctive sense of humor will not be forgotten. Service Sunday, December 21, 10:30 AM, Park
 HERZFELD-Saul. December 19, 1997, in his 95th year. Beloved husband of the late Libby. Cherished father of Abby and Alvin Litt, Miriam and Carl Kanter, and grandfather of Sarah and Eli Litt. Dear brother of Lillian Herzfeld and Ida Cummings. Devoted companion of Freda Zucker. Services Monda
 HOLTZMAN-Sidney. December 18, 1997, in his 89th year. Beloved husband of Filia Holtzman. Dear father of Dr. Robert N. N. Holtzman and Elizabeth Holtzman. Adored grandfather of Maia, Jonathan and Matthew. Cherished brother of Anna Yoskowitz. Services Sunday, December 21, 11 AM at ''The River
 KENNEY-F. Donald. Suddenly on Dec. 17, 1997. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Jean Baptiste Church, Lexington Ave. at 76 St, Monday, December 22, 10:00 A.M. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the National Academy of Design, NYC, or St. Bonaventur
 KLIVINGTON-Kenneth A., PhD. Trustees, staff, and partners of the Fetzer Institute join family and friends in mourning the death and celebrating the life of Dr. Kenneth A. Klivington who died November 27, 1997, after a two-year struggle with cancer. Ken was 57 and is survived by his wife Mar
 LIBERMAN-Murray. Died peacefully on Shabbat morning, December 20, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Estelle. Loving father of Annette Liberman Miller and Barnet L. Liberman. Father-in-law of Michael Miller and Phyllis Liberman. Devoted grandfather of Ava, Zoe, Stella, Leah and Aaron Liberma
 McROBERTS-Franklin C, Jr., 75, of Mill Neck, N.Y., and Boynton Beach, passed away Dec. 17, 1997. Mr. McRoberts was President of Airfreight Warehouse, Inc., Chairman of the Board of Lansdell Protective Agency, former Regent of L.I. College Hospital Board and former Board Member of the Americ
 MILLER-R. Mack 59. October 21, 1997. Operatic Tenor, Classical Actor, Producer, Director. We miss his wicked jokes, sweetness, boisterousness, great mind, energy. Survived by sister Sheila Osuch whom he loved and protected in childhood, half-sister Susan Miller, step-sister Judith Ranheim, 
 NARKISS-Uzi. The Jerusalem Foundation Inc. mourns the passing of General Uzi Narkiss who commanded the troops that achieved the liberation of Jerusalem and restored Jewish Sovereignty to the Holy City. A man of deep humanity, he was truly committed to Jewish and Zionist education, and a gre
 RENARD-Joseph. December 3, 1997. Playwright, actor, author. His friends will miss his wit. Memorial/ Theater for the New City, Dec. 21.       
 RENARD-Neal. Died peacefully on Dec. 18, in Florida. Beloved husband of Pauline. Devoted father of Susan and Bruce Renard. Loving stepfather of Adrienne and Jeffrey Saporta, Janet and Bruce Adler, and Rita and Dick Singer. Grandfather of Cutler. A funeral was held on Dec. 19. He will be mis
 SHEPARD-Seymour D. Died peacefully on December 18, 1997 in Lakeworth, Florida. Son of the late Bertha and Herman, brother of the late William, Ethel, Florence and Robert and pre-deceased by his wife Dorothy K. Shepard. Survived by his sons Thomas Z. Shepard (Irene) and Lewis A. Shepard (Ell
 STIX-Edgar. Died at home December 16. Loving and beloved husband of Carol, devoted father of Allen, Wayne, Roger and Gail. Father-in-law of Robert Way and Jane Share. Life-long resident of Scarsdale, NY, served in Submarine Force in World War II, dedicated his life to family and close frien
 TEPPER-Leon. On December 19, 1997. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Neal, Joel and Elyse. Loving step-father of Larry and Elyse. Cherished grandfather of Beth, Wayland, David, Neal, Jr., Brandyn, Kienan, Ryan, Brian, Alison, Kevin, Stacey, Matthew, David, Stephanie, Mackenzie, Ja
 TUCHMAN-Lester, M.D. It is with great sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. He served the hospital for over fifty years, training generations of residents in his specialty of internal medicine. A warm and generous man, he establishe
 Sey Chassler, who expanded the purview of women's magazines beyond printing recipes to promoting equal rights as the editor in chief of Redbook, died on Dec. 11 at the Tisch Hospital at New York University Medical Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause was com
 William J. Weisz, a former chairman and chief executive of Motorola Inc., who played a leading role in the electronics company's rapid growth during the 1970's and 1980's, died on Wednesday at his home outside Phoenix. He was 70. Mr. Weisz apparently died of a heart attack, the comp
 David N. Schramm, an astrophysicist who was an eminent authority on the Big Bang theory about how the universe was born, died on Friday when the twin-engine plane he was piloting crashed in a field about 40 miles east of Denver. He was 52 and had homes in Chicago and Aspen, Colo. Pr
 Henry Eugene Manning, a health care administrator who oversaw the groundwork for the creation of New York City's autonomous Health and Hospitals Corporation, died on Dec. 4  at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He was 62 and a Cleveland resident. The cause was complications from lu
 Juzo Itami, a film director whose satirical portraits of Japanese society brought him worldwide acclaim, leaped to his death from a rooftop late Saturday, police officials said today. He was 64 and lived in Tokyo. His apparent suicide came two days before Flash, a weekly magazine, w
 Dr. Norman P. Salzman, a biochemist who discovered some of the secrets of viruses that became important underpinnings of the fledgling fields of molecular virology and molecular biology, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his
 ANSELMINI-Andrew A. Formerly of Elmhurst, NY, died at his home in West Palm Beach, FL, on Saturday, December 20, 1997. He was a former supervisor at the JH-47 School for the Deaf in New York, NY. He is survived by his wife, Virginia A. Anselmini of West Palm Beach and other family members. 
 BASKIN-Herbert. We are deeply saddened by the sudden death of our beloved cousin. We share the sorrow of his wonderful wife and marvelous children and grandchildren. He was the best. The Saltzman Family       
 DIAMOND-Harold A. Of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Charlotte and the late Alma. Adored father of Dyan Rosenberg of North Salem, NY, Joyce Colman of Cambridge, MA, and David T. Diamond of East Hills, NY. Cherished grandfather of Stacy, Julie, Joseph, Sarah, Thea, Damien and Erin. Devoted
 GREENBAUM-Walter W. Of Morris Township, NJ, on Thursday, December 18, 1997. Husband of Henrietta (nee Seldin) Greenbaum of Morris Township. Father of Robert Greenbaum of Somerville, NJ, and Wendy Mackin of Middletown, NJ. He is also survived by his brother, Fred Greenbaum of Franklin Square
 HERZFELD-Saul. December 19, 1997, in his 95th year. Beloved husband of the late Libby. Cherished father of Abby and Alvin Litt, Miriam and Carl Kanter, and grandfather of Sarah and Eli Litt. Dear brother of Lillian Herzfeld and Ida Cummings. Devoted companion of Freda Zucker. Services Monda
 LIBERMAN-Murray. The Officers and Trustees of the Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourn the passing of Murray Liberman, beloved father of our devoted Trustee, Barnet Liberman, and extend our condolences to him and his family. David Gelfand, Rabbi Debra Stein-Davidson, Cantor Betty L. Marmon, 
 MARROW-Harry. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Harry Marrow. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Molly, his children Robert, Victor, Norman, Ted, and to his grandchildren. Leon Fassler, Presi
 MEYERS-Lawrence A. Of Longboat Key and New York. Died on the Key, December 17, 1997, at age 93. A New York banker for 45 years, he was ''Larry'' to countless friends and clients of Trade Back and Trust Co. and National Bank of North America. He retired in 1973 from NBNA as Executive Vice Pr
 WEINER-Milton A. On December 19, shortly after his 70th birthday. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of South Orange and Livingston, NJ. Beloved husband of Eleanor (nee Sheitelman), devoted father of Michelle Bettman, Bruce and Marc Weiner, dear brother of Lenore Salant and Bernice Freund, loving 
 Peter A. Leventritt, one of America's greatest bridge players, died on Dec. 6 in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. He was suffering from complications from diabetes, his stepdaughter, Hope Igleheart of Manhattan, said. Mr. Leventritt represented Nor
 R. Stanton Avery, the inventor of the self-adhesive label and founder of what is now the Avery Dennison Corporation, died Dec. 12 at Huntington Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 90. In 1935, Stan Avery, as he was known, invented a machine to make self-adhesive labels with a $100 c
 Tracy H. Ferguson, a Syracuse lawyer who specialized in labor law, died on Dec. 3, at the age of 87. His family said the cause of death was complications after heart surgery. Mr. Ferguson, a strong advocate of arbitration in labor disputes, was known for his outspoken defense of a l
 Adm. David Lamar McDonald, who commanded American naval forces as the United States' involvement in Vietnam rose and crested, died on Dec. 16 at Baptist Medical Center-Beaches in Jacksonville Beach, Fla. He was 91. As Chief of Naval Operations from 1963 to 1967, Admiral McDonald was
 Edwin W. Rawlings, a four-star general who became a top executive at General Mills after retiring from the Air Force, died on Dec. 8 in a nursing home in Auburn, Wash. He was 93. General Rawlings joined General Mills, which makes cereals, snack foods, yogurt and baking products, as 
 DIAMOND-Harold A. Of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Charlotte and the late Alma. Adored father of Dyan Rosenberg of North Salem, New York, Joyce Colman of Cambridge, MA, and David T. Diamond of East Hills, New York. Cherished grandfather of Stacy, Julie, Joseph, Sarah, Thea, Damien and E
 DUBITSKY-Fred. Of Roslyn, New York on December 20, 1997, 79 years of age. Devoted husband of Mary. Loving father of Jeffery and his wife Ann, Richard and his wife Rose. Cherished grandfather of Pamela, Christina, Matthew, Pia, and Sofia. Funeral service at 8 P.M., Tuesday at Nolan & TaylorH
 FUSCHETTI-Mark E. Died on December 19, 1997, age 39. Graduate Duke University. Medical administrator St. Vincent's Hospital. Long time member NYC Gay Men's Chorus. Treasurer Opening Doors Productions. Founding member Traveling Card Club. Survived by cherished companion Jacques Pavlenyi; bel
 GLANTERNIK-Meyer. The officers, directors and employees of TMC Properties, LLC express their deepest condolences to our president Henry Glanternik, his wife Karen and daughters Diana and Julia on the loss of their father and grandfather respectively. We extend our sympathy to his daughter A
 KASHI-Deborah. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations expresses sincerest condolences to our esteemed colleague, Dr. Dore Gold, Israel's Ambassador to the UN, on the untimely loss of his beloved sister. May he and his family be comforted among the mourners of Zi
 KENNEY-F. Donald. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of F. Donald Kenney, a Life member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 LEFKOWITZ-Ira. VP of Dottie Originals, Inc., on December 22, 1997 after a courageous battle with cancer. Survived by his adored son Steven, Ann and brother Gerald. His courage, dignity and incredible sense of style will be remembered always by his dear friends. Services on Wednesday, 11:15 
 LIBERMAN-Murray. The Abraham Joshua Heschel School community expresses heartfelt condolences to our devoted trustee, Barnet L. Liberman on the death of his beloved father. May his memory serve to comfort his wonderful family. Terry Ann Krulwich, President Roanna Shorofsky, Director 
 NARKISS-Uzi. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of General (Res.) Uzi Narkiss, the Israeli Army general who liberated Mt. Scopus during the 1967 Six Day War, enabling Hadassah to regain our abandoned medical facilities. May his memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Post, 
 NUTT-Richard Waller, 79, of 20 Chestnut Street died Sunday, December 21, 1997, after a courageous battle with cancer. The Reverend Nutt was an ordained minister of the United Methodist Church, serving churches in Hartsdale and Monroe, New York, and in Connecticut. He was Executive Director 
 ROTHENBERG-Rabbi Emanuel. Pioneering rabbi, visionary in Jewish education and communal life in Texas, Pennsylvania and New York. He also served as Director of the Religious Department of The Jewish National Fund. To his wife, Gabriella, and children, Dina, Abe, Daniel and Kiki, his grandchi
 STONE-Leon, 88. Dec. 21, after a long illness. Loving and beloved husband of Edna, and devoted family member. He was a man of strong principles, broad interests, great understanding, taste and discernment. His business acumen was much admired. He enjoyed music, art, travel and sports, and f
 TUCHMAN-Lester R., MD. The membership of the Medical Society of the County of Queens expresses their profound sadness on the loss of their beloved colleague and friend Lester R. Tuchman, MD. A distinguished and dedicated physician, he served the Society well as its twice-elected president, 
 Richard Clark McCurdy, a former president of the Shell Oil Company and an avid sailor who helped develop ways to handicap yacht racing and make it safer, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Darien, Conn., his daughter, Carolyn Wilson, said. He was 88 years old. Mr. McCurdy, who was presid
 Edwin P. Neilan, a tough-talking former head of the United States Chamber of Commerce who campaigned against what he considered excessive Government spending, died on Saturday in his hometown of Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 92. As president and then as chairman of the chamber in the 
 Frank Campbell Waldrop, an author and journalist who had been  editor in chief of The Washington Times-Herald, died on Sunday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 92 and lived in Washington. Mr. Waldrop wrote ''McCormick of Chicago'' (1966), a biography of the publisher
 Jerry Masucci, the owner of Fania Records and a seminal figure in the founding of New York salsa and its spread to other countries, died on Sunday in Buenos Aires, his main residence. He was 62. The cause was an aneurysm that developed after surgery for abdominal pain, said a friend
 CORBETT-Paul D. (former President of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Publishers, New York, and Chairman of Academic Press now Harcourt Brace Canada). At Toronto Ontario, Canada on Monday December 22, 1997 at Scarborough Grace Hospital after an extended illness. The son of Edward and Anna Rae Dic
 DEAN-Richard S., 68. December 23, 1997 in Mansfield Twp., NJ. Died of Gastric Cancer. Worked as Human Resource Executive with ''SITA'' Societe Internationale De Telecommunications in New York City, NY for 13 years and then retired. Member of American Management Association and member Societ
 KAPLAN-Samuel S. on December 23, 1997, aged 84 in Lauderhill, Fla. Loving husband of the late Naomi (Alter), devoted father of Rick (Diane Gocs) and Jaime (Michael Grubin) and grandfather of Ben, Sarah and Andrew. Dear brother of Julia, Annette, Gertrude and the late Jack. His deep philosop
 KASHI-Deborah. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University expresses our heartfelt condolences to Dr. Dore Gold, Israel's Ambassador to the U.N. and a former member of our University's Jaffee Center For Strategic Studies, on the untimely loss of his cherished sister, Deborah. We extend our 
 LEFKOWITZ-Ira. VP of Dotti Originals, Inc., on December 21, 1997 after a courageous battle with cancer. Survived by his adored son Steven, Ann and brother Jerald. His courage, dignity and incredible sense of style will be remembered always by his dear friends. Services on Wednesday, 11:15 A
 MILLER-John L. We are saddened by the loss of a founding member of the North Shore University Hospital family. Years before North Shore became a reality, this civic leader sprearheaded a drive to build a community hospital. As superintendent of the Great Neck School System, he understood th
 PELIKAN-Rolf. On December 22, 1997. Greatly loved by his wife Maria; his children, Peter and Tina, daughter in law, Rosarina and granddaughter Jessica. You will always be with us.       
 WAXBERG-Stanley. Died on December 21st, 1997 in Florida. Beloved husband of Ella Nicole Waxberg. WAXBERG-Stanley. The Partners of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler, LLP mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Stanley Waxberg and extend heartfelt sympathy to his widow Ella N
 William B. Arthur, a former editor of Look magazine, died Dec. 10 at Harborside Healthcare in Naples, Fla. He was 83. The cause of death was cancer, said a son, William B. Arthur Jr. Mr. Arthur joined Look in 1946 in its Washington bureau and he remained at the magazine for 
 Les Harrison, a professional basketball pioneer who founded and coached the Rochester Royals, a dominant team of the late 1940's and early 1950's, died Tuesday at Highland Hospital in Rochester. He was 93. Harrison, a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., coac
 ALBERT-Milton. On December 24th, 1997. He is survived by his wife Beverly, daughter Lisa, sister Sara, stepdaughters Michele and Beth and three stepgrandchildren. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to the charity of your choice.       
 BUDD-Charles. Age 86, of Bronx, New York, on December 24, 1997. Survived by his loving children, Anne Gluck and William; and cherished grandchildren, Rachel and Jeffrey Gluck.       
 HAYDEN-Luke S. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Luke S. Hayden, a member of the Society and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 HOSCHANDER-Emanuel. Passed away on December 23. Son of the late Professor Jacob and Bertha Hoschander. Beloved husband of Rhoda (Arond). Adored father of Michal and Ronald Malen. Loving grandfather of Susannah, Abigail and Yacov Malen. Devoted brother of Grace Gerenstein. A man of integrity
 PAPPAS - George N., M.D. 1918-1997, Tuesday, December 23rd. Dedicated neurosurgeon who served residents of Westchester County for more than forty years. He was the former Director of Surgery, Founding Chief of Neurosurgery and major patron of Phelps Memorial Hospital Center. He will be miss
 SCHECHNER-Kenneth S., Esquire. Died on December 23, 1997. Cherished son and brother of Alan, Diane, and Karen after a heroic battle with brain cancer. His courage, dignity and sense of humor will always be remembered by all who knew him. Services will be held at Star of David Memorial Chape
 SCHWARTZ-Bernard. The entire NYU Law School community Mourns the tragic death of Proffessor Bernard Schwartz. A member of the NYU Law School family since he came to us as a student in 1944, he joined our faculty in 1947 and has served us in that capacity since that time. A world renowned sc
 SMITH-Melvin, 70. Died Sunday, December 21, 1997. New City, N.Y. resident, formerly of Yonkers, NY, retired attorney. Son of the late Sol and Henrietta Epstein Smith. Educated in NYC and was a graduate of Brooklyn Law School, member of NYS Bar Association and B'Nai B'rith, Army Veteran. Sur
 ANNER-John Lloyd, Jr. Died Christmas Night 1937, 60 years ago. His memory is kept alive by his wife, 4 children, 16 grandchildren, and 10 great grandchildren.       
 Toshiro Mifune, the most internationally celebrated of Japanese film actors, whose work, particularly for the director Akira Kurosawa, galvanized generations of performers in the United States and around the world, died yesterday at a hospital in Mitaka, near his home in Tokyo. He was 77.  
 Bernard Schwartz, a legal scholar and prolific historian who helped lawyers and lay readers alike to fathom the inner workings of the American system of government and particularly those of the Supreme Court, died on Tuesday in Tulsa, Okla., where he had lived for the last five years. He wa
 Edward Thorgerson, a pioneer sports announcer in the early days of radio, died at his home in Wolfeboro, N.H., on Monday. He was 95. As a young announcer for NBC, where he began his career in 1927, Mr. Thorgerson broadcast the news of the Lindbergh kidnapping live from Hopewell, N.J
 BURTON-John R. Of Palm City Florida died Tuesday, December 23rd, at home after a brief illness. He was 80 years old. Originally from southwestern Virginia, Mr. Burton achieved a distinguished corporate legal career in New York City. He was an authority on the Utility Holding Company Act of 
 FINNELL-Thomas F., 87. Of Bridgewater, N.J., on Tuesday, December 23, 1997. He was born May 11, 1910, in Bridgeport, CT. During his long career in the hotel industry in New York, Mr. Finnell held management positions at the Empire, Pennsylvania, New Yorker and Whitehall Hotels and served as
 GREENBAUM - Andrew. The Board of Directors and Members of Progressive Credit Union mourn the loss of Andy Greenbaum. A ''stand-up guy'' who gave a lifetime of leadership to the NYC Taxi Medallion Industry. Our sincerest condolences to his wife of over 50 years, Pearl, and all of his childre
 KENNEDY-James G. The American Irish Historical Society mourns the death of the Chairman of our Executive Council. For over a quarter century his generosity preserved our landmark home, and will assure future generations access to our priceless archives and library. We extend our deepest sym
 McINERNEY-John Patrick. Of Bronxville, Dec. 24, 1997. Beloved brother of Joan McInerney, MD, and Kevin McInerney. Friends may call at The Westchester Funeral Home, Inc., Eastchester Sat. and Sun 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. Mass of Christian Burial Mon., Dec. 29, St. Joseph's Church, Bronxville, 10 A.M
 MEYERS-Lawrence A. Of Longboat Key and New York. Died on the Key, December 17, 1997, at age 93. A New York banker for 45 years, he was ''Larry'' to countless friends and clients of Trade Bank and Trust Co. and National Bank of North America. He retired in 1973 from NBNA as Executive Vice Pr
 PALL-William B. December 23 at age 51. Loving husband of Olivia. Proud, dedicated, doting father of Alexander and Caitlin. Devoted son of David and the late Josephine Pall and dear stepson of Helen Pall. Loyal brother of Ellen Pall, Jane Block, Abigail Weinshank, and the late Stephanie Pall
 SCHELLBACH-Lewis Carl, 62. Of Manhasset. Beloved husband of Anne, dear father of L. Carl Jr., Beth Young, Kate Rogers, Peg Fraser and Peter, loving father-inlaw to their spouses and Pahqi to twelve grandchildren. A skilled investment manager, he was made partner of Garrison, Bradford & Asso
 SCHWARTZ-Bernard. The entire NYU Law School community Mourns the tragic death of Proffessor Bernard Schwartz. A member of the NYU Law School family since he came to us as a student in 1944, he joined our faculty in 1947 and has served us in that capacity since that time. A world renowned sc
 William A. Smalley, who as a young American linguist, anthropologist and missionary sat with the ancient Hmong peoples in the mountains of Laos, listened to the patterns of their speech and helped them develop their first permanent written language, died on Dec. 16 in New Haven. He was 74 a
 Giorgio Strehler, the grand master of Italian theater and one of the world's boldest and most innovative directors, died on Thursday at his home in Lugano, Switzerland. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, reported The Associated Press. In a career of more than 50 years,
 CAPRIO-John Michael. On December 25, 1997. Beloved son of Mary and the late Michael. Loving brother of Dr. Raphael and uncle of Jennifer K. Caprio and close friend of Robert J. Tornquist. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday 1-5 and 6-9 PM. Mass of Chris
 FRIEDLANDER-Adolf. Devoted husband. Survived by his loving wife Margot of 53 years. He will be sorely missed by family and friends. Funeral Service Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Funeral Home, Queens Blvd., Forest Hills, Sun. 28th, 1pm. In lieu of flowers, contribution to: 92nd Street Y Jewish Progr
 JOSEPH-Michael, Jr. 84 died Thurs. at home. Husband of Marion Leeds Joseph. Father of Patricia Ann Joseph and Linda Jane Gregg. Friends may call from 3-8 p.m. at his home, 50 Penn Blvd., Scarsdale, NY. Funeral services will be held at 11:00 a.m. Mon. in the Fred D. Knapp & Son FuneralHome, 
 KENNEDY-James G. Sr. At home on December 24, 1997. James G. Kennedy Sr., Chairman of the Board of James G. Kennedy & Co., Inc., began his career as a plasterer for the old Davis, Brown Company. He was born in Manhattan's Harlem and attended Townsend Harris High School. ''Back then, it was a
 LEVINE-Samuel. On December 24, concluding 94 years of loving concern for those who touched and were touched by him. Adoring husband of the late Della, dear devoted father of Marjorie Hirsch, forever inscribed in the hearts of his many nieces and nephews of the Levine family, of which he was
 PIACENTINI-Carmine. On December 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Keck). Loving father of Karla and Peter. Cherished brother Of Iole and Mario, Norma, Nancy and Marshall. Devoted uncle of Salvatore, Alba and Ernesto. Loved by many friends and patrons, he thanks you and will miss yo
 ROSE-William B. Age 72. Of Mahwah, died Thursday, December 25, 1997, at his residence. Born in Staten Island, he lived in Franklin Lakes before moving to Mahwah eleven years ago. Mr. Rose was the Director of Distribution and Traffic for Witco Chemical Corp of Greenwich, Connecticut before h
 SCHWARTZ-Bernard. The entire NYU Law School community mourns the tragic death of Proffessor Bernard Schwartz. A member of the NYU Law School family since he came to us as a student in 1944, he joined our faculty in 1947 and has served us in that capacity since that time. A world renowned sc
 SILVERMAN-Louis. On December 25, 1997, peacefully in his sleep in his 100th year. Beloved father of Charles, grandfather of Michael, Andrew and Lisa, great grandfather of Jonathan, Robert, Elisa, Jessica and Holly Rose. Services will be held graveside at Mt Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY Sun
 WALKER-Robert B., Jr. Born January 16, 1927. Died December 23, 1997. He was an Administrator for IBM in New York City. Loving companion of Kenneth Fabbrini. Beloved brother of William J. Walker and James J. Walker. Visitation will be Sunday, December 28 from 2-4 and 7-9 PM at The Donovan Fu
 WIENER-Stanley. On December 25, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Mona. Cherished father of Bonnie (Robert) Tarlowe. Loving and devoted grandfather of Michael and Richard. Loving uncle, great uncle. Cherished friend to all who knew him. His kindness and gentleness will remain with us always
 YOSHIMURA-Yuji. Dec. 24, 1997. Of Norfolk, MA. Calling hours Mon., Dec. 29, 11am-2pm in the R.J. Ross Funeral Home, Wrentham, MA. Donations in his memory: Yuji Yoshimura Fund, National Bonsai Foundation Inc., 1771 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, D.C. 20006-4605.       
 GRUSHKIN-Gary. 12/27/50-9/22/96. On his birthday and always we remember this special husband, father and friend. His goodness touched us all. Love, Renee, Deborah and Rebecca       
 Pierre Peladeau, the Quebec tabloid publisher who read Balzac and revered Beethoven while building one of the most powerful communications empires in Canada, died on Wednesday at Hotel-Dieu Hospital in Montreal. He was 72. Mr. Peladeau had been in a coma since suffering a heart atta
 Abram J. Jaffe, a social scientist and labor expert at Columbia University who studied the economic conditions of migrants, working women and retirees, died on Monday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Leonia, N.J. The cause was heart failure after a long il
 Denver Pyle, a television and film actor known for his roles as a wise Southern uncle on ''The Dukes of Hazzard'' and a melodic mountain man on ''The Andy Griffith Show,'' died Thursday in Providence St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, Calif. He was 77. Mr. Pyle was suffering from
 Ernest (Polly) Rosborough, a pioneer of modern fly-fishing in the Western states and a noted fly tyer, died last Tuesday at Hearthstone, a nursing home near Klamath Falls, Ore. He was 95. Although he was born in Mammoth Spring, Ark., a region that offers fishing almost exclusively f
 BERDY-Irwin, Col. (ret). Seagate has lost one of its outstanding former citizens and longterm former Chief of Police. We remember him for his outstanding service to our armed forces and his unusual and superior commitment to our community and we share his family's grief. Kasper Price, Presi
 BERTENTHAL-Howard M. The Board Members of the former Open Door Student Exchange (now Nacel Open Door Inc.) mourn the loss of our Founder and longtime fellow Board Member. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Hilda Jaffe, Former Chairperson Open Door Student Exchange      
 BYRD-William. On Thursday, December 25 in Princeton, NJ. Mr. Byrd was born January 7, 1904 inShort Hills, New Jersey. He wasgraduated from St. Paul's School in 1922 and from Harvard University in 1926 with honors in engineering. He received his pilot's license signed by Orville Wright while
 CAPRIO-John Michael. On December 25, 1997. Beloved son of Mary and the late Michael. Loving brother of Dr. Raphael and uncle of Jennifer K. Caprio and close friend of Robert J. Tornquist. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday 1-5 and 6-9 PM. Mass of Chris
 FEIG-Werner M. 65, of White Plains, NY, on Tuesday, December 23. Born June 29, 1932, in Breslau, Germany. He grew up in the Hongkew Jewish ghetto of Shanghai, China, from 1939 to 1946. Moved to Pittsburgh, PA, where he attended Westinghouse and Schenley High Schools. BA, University of Pitts
 GAUDREAUX-Captain Laurance F. Born May 10, 1906, in NYC, died December 17, 1997, in Hilton Head Island, SC, after a long illness. During his Navy career, he served in WW II and the Korean War. He taught engineering at the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY, and was repair super
 JOSEPH-Michael, Jr. Friends may call from 3-8 PM today (Sunday) at his home, 50 Penn Blvd., Scarsdale, NY. Funeral services will be held at 11 AM, Monday, in the Fred D. Knapp & Son Funeral Home, 267 Greenwich Ave., Greenwich, CT. JOSEPH-Michael, Jr. The Board of Directors and membe
 LICHT-Nathan. Age 79, on December 27, 1997, at home, after a long illness. Born in NYC on June 24, 1918. Devoted husband of Helen (nee Applebaum), loving father of Jonathan and Nora Licht Sewall. Survived by brother Mike Licht and sister Rose Wolk. Business partner for many years with his b
 LOWENSTEIN-Milton. Dec. 22 with services Dec. 24 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. His warm friendship, loving spirit will be deeply missed.       
 MARCH-Jerry. 68. Professor Emeritus. Jerry March, a recently retired professor of Organic Chemistry at Adelphi University in Garden City, died December 25, 1997 of pancreatic cancer. Dr. March was born on August 1, 1929 in Brooklyn, NY. He received a B.S. from City College in 1951, a Master
 OSIS-Dr. Karlis. Husband of Klara (nee Zale). Father of Ulvid, Gunta and Saija. Grandfather of eight, great-grandfather of two. His life's work was in parapsychology research focusing on ESP and survival at Duke University and the A.S.P.R. Co-author of ''At the Hour of Death.''       
 PIACENTINI-Carmine. On December 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Keck). Loving father of Karla and Peter. Cherished brother Of Iole and Mario, Norma, Nancy and Marshall. Devoted uncle of Salvatore, Alba and Ernesto. Loved by many friends and patrons, he thanks you and will miss yo
 ROBBINS-Charles Francis, C.F.A. of Llewellyn Park, West Orange, NJ, died in St. Barnabas Medical Center, Livingston, NJ, Thursday, Dec. 18, 1997. He was 76 years old. Mr. Robbins was the great-grandson of A.G. Spalding, baseball pitcher and founder of the athletic goods company, and son of 
 SILVERMAN-Louis. On December 25, 1997, peacefully in his sleep in his 100th year. Beloved father of Charles, grandfather of Michael, Andrew and Lisa, great grandfather of Jonathan, Robert, Elissa, Jessica and Holly Rose. Services will be held graveside at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY S
 SIMON-Hyman G. 86 years, died on December 26, 1997. Beloved husband of Phyllis (nee Lieber). Devoted and proud father of Kenneth, Geoffrey and Robert, and father-in-law of Andi, Andrea and Teresa. Cherished and proud grandfather of Jamie and Daniel, Spencer and Hannah, and Jacqueline and Ka
 VOLAN-Stuart I., Esq. Died on December 23, 1997. He is survived by his beloved family. Wife Jayne, sons Douglas and Jordan, sister Naomi, brother William, brothersin-law Michael and Bernard. He will be remembered for his warmth, selflessness, wisdom, unique sense of humor and integrity. Ser
 VOS-Maxwell R.D. 70, on December 27. Beloved husband, father, brother, uncle, grandfather and friend. His life was a source of brilliance to all who were priviledged to know him. Services pending.       
 WIENER-Stanley. On December 25, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Mona. Cherished father of Bonnie (Robert) Tarlowe. Loving and devoted grandfather of Michael and Richard. Loving uncle, great uncle. Cherished friend to all who knew him. His kindness and gentleness will remain with us always
 YASHER-Mary. Sutton Place Synagogue extends sincere condolences to Hamid Khorsandi on the loss of his beloved mother. Robert W. Berend, President       
 Sebastian Arcos Bergnes, a prominent Cuban dissident and human rights campaigner who fought the dictatorships of Fidel Castro and Fulgencio Batista, died here on Monday night. He was 65 and had lived in Havana until coming to Miami two years ago for medical treatment. Relatives said
 Lieut. Gen. Thomas Samuel Moorman, an expert in meteorology who navigated the Air Force Academy through a squall of ethical lapses as its longest-serving superintendent in the 1960's, died on Tuesday at a retirement residence in Sterling, Va. He was 87 and had moved to Virginia from Colorad
 William Pendleton House, a guardian of the New Hampshire woods who scaled the world's most daunting peaks decades before it became fashionable, died last Thursday at Monadnock Community Hospital in Peterborough, N.H. He was 84 and lived in Harrisville, N.H. The cause was cardiac arr
 Brendan Gill, a pillar of New York's civic, social and literary life for nearly half a century, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. Mr. Gill, who was also a prominent advocate for architectural preservation and other visual arts, was 83 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. The cause of 
 John Adair, an anthropologist who studied the Navajo for decades, was involved in films about and by them and underwent a Navajo healing ceremony in his frail old age, died on Dec. 14 at his home in San Francisco. He was 84. Dr. Adair, a native of Memphis, worked with the Navajo and
 EITEN-David. The National Realty Club notes with sorrow the passing of David Eiten, a past president and cherished member. Mr. Eiten was an accomplished raconteur and story teller and his presence will be missed at our luncheons and gatherings. Sincere condolences to his family. Thomas K. G
 FEIG-Werner. The Trustees, faculty, staff and students of The Nightingale - Bamford School mourn the loss of our beloved colleague, teacher and friend. Mr. Feig was a brilliant history teacher who inspired countless Nightinggale students with his passion for history, his gift for making the
 FOGELSON-David. Age 94, died December 27th in Palm Beach. Beloved husband to the late Gertrude, devoted father of Ellen Liman and the late James Fogelson, father-in-law of Phylis Fogelson and the late Arthur Liman, grandfather of Lewis, Emily, Douglas, Robert and Matthew. A partner in the l
 HAGHANI-Moosa. Adored father and grandfather, brother, uncle, true friend to many, creative entrepreneur and lion-heart, passed away on the morning of December 26, in London, with his family by his side. He was 84. Born in Teheran, he graduated valedictorian from the American College and be
 KENNEDY-James G., Sr. Irish wit and quiet good works embodied the spirit of this gallant gentleman. Knowing Jim, he's probably busy with the Lord right now renovating Heaven! Steve McFadden       
 LICHT-Nathan. Age 79, on December 27, 1997, at home, after a long illness. Born in NYC on June 24, 1918. Devoted husband of Helen (nee Applebaum), loving father of Jonathan and Nora Licht Sewall. Survived by brother Mike Licht and sister Rose Wolk. Business partner for many years with his b
 MAGRAM-Lew. On December 27, 1997, at the age of 81. Devoted husband of Evelyn, beloved father of Erv and Melanie. Achieved great notoriety during the 1950's as the ''shirtmaker to the stars.'' Founded the national mail order apparel company that still bears his name. A wonderful man who wil
 MITCHELL-Henry Bedinger. Died Sunday, December 21, 1997, in Houston. Born in Glens Falls, NY, on September 7, 1916, son of the late Mr. and Mrs. John F.B. Mitchell of New York. He graduated from Princeton University in 1937 and Harvard Law School in 1940. Mr. Mitchell was a veteran of World
 MONBLATT-Charles M. Attorney. The entire family of Charles Monblatt mourns his death. He was loved by all of them. Survived by his mother, Rose; his wife, Sandra; his daughters, Alaina and Maria. Service 11:45 AM, Tuesday, December 30, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.      
 OSIS-Dr. Karlis. The Board, staff and members of the American Society for Psychical Research mourn the passing of Dr. Karlis Osis, Research Director Emeritus. Dr. Osis was an internationally renowned psychical researcher who conducted landmark experiments at the American Society for Psychic
 ROONEY-Brian L. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Brian L. Rooney, an Active member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 Dr. Roy Orval Greep, a multifaceted anatomist who earned threefold emeritus status at Harvard University, died on Dec. 5 at his home in Laguna Hills, Calif., where he moved from Massachusetts two years ago. He was 92. Dr. Greep, a onetime high school dropout, retired in 1974 as dire
 James M. Nabrit Jr., an important figure in the legal struggle of American blacks against segregation who went on to be the president of Howard University in Washington in the 1960's, was declared dead on arrival on Saturday in Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 97 and li
 ALDRICH-Duane C., 54. A nationally respected lawyer in the field of labor and management relations and a leading member of the law firm, Kilpatrick Stockton LLP died on December 27, 1997, in Atlanta, after a brief illness. A partner in the Kilpatrick & Cody law firm since 1973, Mr. Aldrich 
 BERKOWITZ-Selma. The National Commission and Staff of the Anti-Defamation League mourn the passing of Selma Berkowitz, beloved mother of our National Chairman, Howard P. Berkowitz. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Howard, his brother Steven, sister Catherine and the entire family. Abr
 BRESLAW-Leon. Beloved father of Ellen (Rabbi Allan) Schranz. Cherished ''Gramps'' of Molly and Asher. His optimism will be with us forever. For additional information, contact Riverside (Mount Vernon) Funeral Home.       
 BUCHTER-Robert Alan. Died on December 21, 1997 after a brief illness. Mr. Buchter was a principal in the architectural firm of Knappe and Johnson of Garden City, New York since 1957 where he practiced until his death. Under his direction the firm designed numerous schools, churches and othe
 FRIEDLANDER - Adolf. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street YM-YWHA mourn the passing of our former colleague, Adolf Friedlander. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife Margot, his family and his friends. Philip Milstein, President Joseph Leff, Chairman Sol Adler, Executi
 GILL-Brendan. The Trustees and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Brendan Gill, a great New Yorker and dear friend of the Whitney Museum. For fifteen years, Brendan served as a Trustee of the Museum, and during that time his energy, wit and wi
 KENNEDY-James G. Sr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of James G. Kennedy, Sr., a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 KIELY-Kevin. Of NYC and Exeter, NH, suddenly, December 27, 1997. Beloved son of Barbara. Devoted brother to Amy and Gary. Loving nephew of Phyllis. His relatives, many friends and colleagues cherish his memory.       
 KINGSLEY-Charles R., 69. Of Chappaqua, New York. On December 28th the world lost a wonderful and remarkable man. Beloved husband and best friend of Emily Perl Kingsley. Adored father and hero of Glenn (Jennifer), Todd (Michelle), and Jason. Fun-loving grandpa and magician to Samara, Ethan, 
 KORIN-Samuel B. Died Sunday, December 28, 1997 in Boynton Beach, Fla. Born in New York on January 2, 1924 to the late Benjamin and Bella Korin. He graduated Magna Cum Laude from New York University in 1952 and Columbia University Graduate School of Business as a Samuel Bronfman Fellow in 19
 LEVINE-Louis H., Esq. On December 28, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Goldie, dear father of Honey and Leonard Slavit, Morton and Susan Levine. Grandfather of Ira and Diana Slavit, David and Robin Slavit, Gail Slavit, Richard and Pattie Levine and Gary Levine. Great-Grandfather of Gillian
 LICHT-Nathan. Age 79. On December 27, 1997, at home, after a long illness. Born in NYC on June 24, 1918. Devoted husband of Helen (nee Applebaum), loving father of Jonathan and Nora Licht Sewall. Survived by brother Mike Licht and sister Rose Wolk. Business partner for many years with his b
 MEIKLEJOHN-Robert Pickens, of Monroe Twp., N.J. on December 26, 1997. Formerly of Greenwich, CT. Ten years service with W. Averell Harriman in his successive capacities including U.S. Minister in charge of Lend Lease supplies for Great Britain, U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union and Secret
 MILLS-Arthur. The Board, Volunteers, and Friends of Early Stages deeply mourn the passing of our beloved Arthur Mills. Through Arthur's commitment to young people and to the performing arts, he created Early Stages as a program of the Mayor's Office. The program continues Arthur's dream to 
 REISFELD-Maurice. Formerly of the Bronx, NY. Nearing his 100th birthday. Passed away at his home in Charlotte, NC. A World War II veteran, US Army Air Force, who strived to live with love and care. When there is peace in our hearts it will find its way into the world. For further informatio
 RYAN-William F. On December 28, 1997, William F. Ryan chairman, president and CEO of South Jersey Industries, Inc. and South Jersey Gas Company passed away at the age of 63. Mr. Ryan, a resident of Linwood, N.J. since 1965 joined the company in 1967 and served as president of SJI since 1980
 SHEBLE-Richard Newell. On Friday, December 26, 1997 in Essex, CT at age 79. Members of the Board of Directors of the Glenwood Communications Corp and Holston Valley Broadcasting Corp and its subsidiaries mourn the passing of its respected friend and colleague. He joined the Boyd family news
 The Rev. Albert J. Nevins, the author of many books and documentaries for young people and adults, a past president of the Catholic Press Association and a founder of the Catholic Institute of the Press, died on Dec. 15 at St. Teresa's Residence in Maryknoll, N.Y. A Maryknoll priest for 55 
 William M. LeFevre, a stock market analyst who frequently discussed financial trends in newspapers and magazines and on radio and television, including CNN and the Public Broadcasting System, died Dec. 4 at his home in the Murray Hill section of Manhattan. He was 69. He had been tre
 Danilo Dolci, an advocate of nonviolent social reform whose writings and poetry chronicled Sicily's beauty and sense of despair, died today in a hospital in Sicily of heart failure. He was 73. Mr. Dolci, who suffered from diabetes and was debilitated recently by pneumonia after a vi
 Gilbert W. Fitzhugh, a former chairman and chief executive of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Monday at the Meadow Lakes Health Care Center in Hightstown, N.J. He was 88 years old and had been ailing for several years with Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Gilbert Van Ingh
 J. Richardson Dilworth, a philanthropist and retired financier who was a former chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Institute for Advanced Study  in Princeton, N.J., died on Monday at the Princeton Hospital. He was 81 and lived in Princeton. The cause was 
 Johnny Coles, a trumpeter and fluegelhornist who illuminated some of the best jazz groups of the 1950's and 60's with his warm, soft sound, died on Dec. 21 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 71. The cause was stomach cancer, Darlene Drummond, his niec
 DILWORTH-J. Richardson. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art deeply mourn the passing of our beloved former Chairman, J. Richardson Dilworth, one of the Institution's most devoted and valued leaders. His more than three decades of exemplary and devoted serviceas longtime
 GASSMAN-Ron. December 29, 1997, Bedford, New York. Temple Shaaray Tefila mourns the sudden passing of Ron Gassman, Ron was a Founding Member, Past President, Director and Dear Friend of our congregation. Our hearts are with his wife Marian, and daughter Lauren as we mourn this tragic loss. 
 GILL-Brendan. The Trustees, Trustees Council and staff of the Preservation League of NYS mourn the loss of our esteemed Chairman Emeritus Brendan Gill. We will miss his lively and sharp wit, his steady guidance, and his passion for New York. A great friend of preservation, Mr. Gill was a so
 GILMORE-Harold D. (Ret. Major U.S. Army). Composer, musician and teacher. Of Centerport, N.Y. On December 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Anne. Devoted father of Geoffrey D., Samuel L., Priscilla A. and Arthur H. Loving grandfather of seven. Brother of Flora Mitchell. Funeral services Friday, 
 KENEDY-Arthur R. December 28, 1997, of Bay Shore, N.Y. Husband of the late Mary Alice Kenedy (nee) McGuirk. Loving father of Arthur Reid, Annie Laurie Mac Evitt, Gail Greene, Mark and David. Also survived by his 14 grandchildren and eight great grandchildren. The family will receive friends
 KREISBERG-Barrett G. The Trustees of The Harkness Foundation for Dance mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed colleague Barry Kreisberg. Barry served the Foundation with distinction and dedication for twentyfive years. We extend our deepest sympathy to his loving wife Luisa who has been
 LOBEL-Joseph Mearson. Beloved father of Brian Mearson Lobel and Gail Lobel Shields. Cherished grandfather of Alexander Joseph and Chelsea Anne Shields. Loving father-in-law of Ellen Mulhall and Robert Shields. Lived with love, we wish him peace and hold close his memory. Service 10AM Friday
 NABRIT-Dr. James M., Jr. President Emeritus of Howard Univeristy, Saturday, December 27, 1997. Beloved father of James M. Nabrit, III. Also surviving are his daughter-in-law R. Jacquelynn Harlan Nabrit, brothers Dr. Samuel Milton Nabrit and Reverend Henry Clarke Nabrit, sisters Gertrude Nab
 TALIAFERRO-Van Buren. Of Somers, NY, formerly of Bronxville and NYC. Died on December 28, 1997, peacefully at home. He was a graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy and Yale University, Class of 1927. During World War II he became Lieutenant Commander with the Naval Air Forces. Most of his busi
 WEINSTEIN-Kalman. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Mr. Kalman Weinstein. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Alan S. Berger, President Eric B. Sambol, Secretary       
 Raymond A. Ericson, a music critic for The New York Times for nearly three decades, died yesterday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 82 and lived in Sherman, Conn. Mr. Ericson, who had worked as an organist and choir director before joining The Times, was partial to  Baroqu
