 Donald J. Mitchell, a Republican from New York who served in the House of Representatives for 10 years, died on Saturday in Little Falls, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Gretchen Barr, his daughter. In his time in the House, from 19
 Harry Goz, an actor who was an understudy in ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and wound up playing the lead, died on Sept. 6 in a hospital in Manhasset, N.Y., where he lived. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Margaret. Mr. Goz made his Broadway debut in a minor role in 
 Jackie Flosso, the last owner of a little shop of magical wonders that was once partly owned by Houdini, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was kidney and heart ailments and other problems, said Ted Bogusta, a friend who took over the busines
 BROMBERG--Dr. Jules H. of Maplewood, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn Konoff Bromberg. Devoted father of Carol Berman, Dina Bromberg, Kimberly Kaplan and the late David K. Bromberg. Devoted father-in-law of Simeon Berman, Edward Kaplan and Barrett Sinowitz. Adoring grandfather of Sara
 FOSTER--Robert C., age 77, resident of Bergenfield, New Jersey, on September 25, 2003. Devoted father of Robert A. Foster, Victoria Dziezawiec and Marjorie Foster; grandfather of ten. Also survived by his sister Margie Zaremba. He was a decorated World War II veteran with two Purple Hearts,
 GURARY -- Rabbi Schnejer Zalman. His wife, children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren note with sadness and profound loss the passing of our family patriarch. A shining light and formidable spirit, he will live on in our hearts and minds always. Rabbi Gurary's life was marked by an unpa
 HUNNEWELL -- Richard Farnsworth on September 29, age 81, in Newport, RI. Son of the late Emmeline Ticknor and James Frothingham Hunnewell of Boston, Richard graduated from St. Paul's School and Harvard College. He served in WW II as a Navy Lieutenant on the destroyer Charles J. Badger. Afte
 KOEHLER--John A. (Jack) 1926-2003. Loved Mary Catherine, his family, his church, bridge, and New York Times crossword puzzles. World War II veteran, graduate Stevens Institute of Technology, president Phi Sigma Kappa (Iota Chapter), Councilman Hillsdale, NJ, engineer IT&T Avionics 30+ years
 RUBIN--Dr James. The Board of Governors and Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend, esteemed member and past president. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Charles Roden, President       
 SLOAN--Irving. On September 29, 2003 at age 88. Beloved husband of Hilda. Loving father of Bruce and Alan Sloan. Stepfather of Barbara. Step grandfather of Lauren. Dear brother of Hilda. Much adored uncle of many nieces and nephews. Early founder of United Cerebral Palsy of N.Y.C. Inc. and 
 WASHTON--Nathan, 86, of Fairfield, CT and Manhasset, NY, on September 30, 2003 of lung cancer. Nathan retired as professor of education and coordinator of science education at Queens College, CUNY, in 1982. His publications include more than 30 scholarly articles, several textbooks, and a n
 VAN NORDEN--Montagnie October 1, 2002 Remembered lovingly by his family, his friends and all whose lives he touched. VAN NORDEN--Montagnie Darling Daddy -We love you, think of you and miss you every day. Julie, Craig, Henry and Grace       
 Bernard H. Kamenske, former chief of the Voice of America's news operation, died on Sept. 25 in Bethesda, Md. He was 75 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was heart and lung disease, said Alan L. Heil Jr., a former colleague. Mr. Kamenske became chief of the news operation in 
 Irving Sloan, a retired supermarket executive and a philanthropist with a special concern for the handicapped, died on Monday at Beth Israel North hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side. Beginning in the 1930's, Mr. Sloan, with his brother Joseph, operated
 BENNETT--Jay I. On September 30, 2003 at age 77. Adoring husband of Madeleine of 53 years. Devoted and loving father of Bonnie and cherished grandfather of Lily. He was a true confidante, advisor and trusted friend. Jay enjoyed life and people to the fullest. He devoted over half a century 
 LOFTUS--Robert M. in his 84th year, Bob died peacefully on September 29, 2003. Born in Brooklyn, Bob was a longtime resident of Stewart Manor, NY. Beloved husband of the late Eileen, loving father of Kathleen Ryan, Carol Walsh and Robert Loftus Jr. He is survived by his loving sister Patric
 ZARLIN--Martin. Marty to his beloved wife, Carole of 45 years, Dad to his adoring children, Brad, and Debbie and Scott Edelman, Pop to his beloved grandchildren Rebecca and Zachary, and Dr. Z. to more than 40 years of dental patients. All will remember blue skys, sunny days, your kindness, 
 Rex Robbins, who performed on stage, in movies and in more than 300 commercials, died on Sept. 23 in Pierre, S.D., while visiting relatives. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a subdural aneurysm, or a ballooning blood vessel in the brain, said his daughter Mary Victori
 FOLEY--John D. The Partners, of counsel, associates and staff of Morgan & Finnegan L.L.P. mourn the loss of our long time colleague and good friend, John D. Foley. One of the founding partners of our firm as we know it today, John was highly respected and admired for his brillance, wit and 
 FRIEDEN--Julian, 78. Yale Medical School, Chief, Coronary Care Unit, Montefiore Hospital, Chief of Cardiology, New Rochelle Hospital. Researched and wrote articles on causes, diagnosis, and treatment of heart disease and series of books on interpretation of electrocardiograms. Consummate ph
 GLASER--Steven. On October 1, 2003 at age 54. Son of the late Max and Sylvia Glaser. He is survived by his sister Dr. Ellen Glaser of CA, his nephews Daniel and Adam. You will always be in our hearts. Services on Sunday 10:30 AM at the Sanctuary of Abraham and Sarah, Cedar Park Cemetery, Pa
 GOLDMAN--Jeffrey Steven, age 40, of Bensalem on September 27, 2003. Served on the Board of Directors of the National Marfan Foundation. Beloved son of Rebecca Teenie (Gary) and the late William K; loving brother of William D. (Paula Fitzgerald), Christopher M. and Jennifer Hirleman; uncle o
 HADERS--Richard. Children of Bellevue, Inc., notes his passing with sorrow. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Mary Elliott Haders, long time Children of Bellevue Board and Corporate Member.       
 KABIA--Dr. Abdul H., a resident of Elmsford, New York, and Sierra Leone, died peacefully on Thursday, September 25, 2003, at the age of 68. He was the United Nations Secretary General's representative in Somalia and served in Rwanda during the civil war. During his long tenure at the United
 MORRELL--Charles Raynor, 75, of Palm City, FL, died on October 2, 2003. Born in Rockville Centre, NY, he resided on Long Island until 1992 when he moved to Florida as a full time resident. He was a member of the Evergreen Club in Palm City, as well as Southward-Ho Country Club in West Bay S
 MUTTER--Maxwell. October 1, 2003. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, greatgrandfather, brother and uncle. He was an accountant for 50+ years and Treasurer Emeritus of Shari Tfiloh. He was the happiness and strength of our family. Hellman Memorial Chapels, 15 State Street, Spring Valley, 
 PENNINGTON--Malcolm. For 25 years Malcolm served the Jose Limon Dance Foundation with courage and distinction, guiding the company through many challenges and serving as Board Chairman for six years. He had an abiding faith in the humanistic vision and enduring value of Jose Limon's choreog
 RIMALOVER--Jack K. Of Princeton, New Jersey and Haven Beach, New Jersey on October 2, 2003. Former Vice President of Lenox Hill Hospital. Survived by his wife of 56 years, Betty H. Rimalover, 3 daughters, Joan Gardiner of Bainbridge Island, WA, Anne Jorgensen of Haddonfield, New Jersey, and
 SIMMONS--Martin, 92, on September 30 after complications from a fall. He was the beloved husband and is survived by his wife, Doreen. He was a member and former governor of the Union Club, a past president of the British Schools and Universities Club, a member of Holland Lodge, St. George's
 SMITH--Richard Wade. We mourn the death of our marvelous friend, Richard Wade Smith, who died suddenly on September 27. His generous spirit, his caring friendship and his sense of style enhanced all of our lives immeasurably. He will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to Richard 
 SMOOT--William Sidney, on October 1st, 2003 at age 89. Husband of Katharine S. for 57 years. Father of Sally Smoot Ingraham; grandfather of David Smoot Ingraham and Sarah Jennings Ingraham; brother of Charles Head Smoot and the late Barbara Smoot Ross. A mechanical and electrical engineer, 
 SOURY -- Sam ''Dudy''. Passed away on October 1. Loving husband of Lilly. Adored father of Michael and Lonnie. Brother and friend of Danny, Estelle, Bette and Joe, and devoted grandfather of Jeremy, Jake, Arielle and Michaela. He is survived by many loving relatives and friends. He was an i
 STAPP--Philip. Called ''one of the most orginal and creative animators ever to work in educational films,'' died on October 2, after a brief illness. He was 95 and lived in Stonington, CT. Over the decades, Stapp contributed finely crafted elements to many films (listed in the International
 WITKIND -- Richard Jules. Born in New York City September 23, 1920. Graduate of Horace Mann School and the University of Virginia (1942), where he played goalie on the national champion lacrosse team. Joined the Navy and served as a gunnery officer on the battleship USS Arkansas in the Atla
 Chubby Jackson, a jazz bassist almost as well known for his onstage exuberance as for his playing, died on Wednesday at a hospice in Paway, Calif., near his home in Rancho Bernardo. He was 84. He had had cancer for several years and was also on dialysis, his son, Duffy, said.       
 John T. Dunlop, a Harvard economics professor who was considered a foremost labor relations expert and served every president from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Bill Clinton, died on Thursday at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 89. President Harry S. Truman turned to Pr
 ROTHSTEIN--Warren. Chabad's Children of Chernobyl mourns the untimely and sudden passing of a dear friend. Cherished Board Member, Warren Rothstein was one of our earliest supporters. His wise counsel and generosity of spirit, his open manner and deeply felt concern will be hugely missed. W
 Rabbi Ephraim Oshry, whose interpretations of religious law helped sustain Lithuanian Jews during Nazi occupation and were buried in tin cans for retrieval and publication after the Holocaust, died on Sept. 28 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89. Rabbi Oshry was a young 
 BENNETT--Jay I. On September 30, 2003 at age 77. Adoring husband of Madeleine of 53 years. Devoted and loving father of Bonnie and cherished grandfather of Lily. He was a true confidante, advisor and trusted friend. Jay enjoyed life and people to the fullest. He devoted over half a century 
 CLARK--Rudolph H. Sr. Of Westbury, NY, died on Thursday, October 2, 2003, in North Shore University Hospital, Manhasset, after a two year battle against gastric cancer. He was 74. Clark, a research psychologist, was a former NYS Probation Officer who later headed his own educational consult
 DUNLOP--John T. Of Belmont, MA, on October 2, 2003, at the age of 89. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy W. Dunlop; father of John B. Dunlop, Beverly D. Donohue and Thomas F. Dunlop; Grandfather of Maria Tobias, John S., Olga and Catherine Dunlop, Michael and Philip Donohue; great-grandfat
 EYER--George A. Jr. Died at his NYC residence on October 2, 2003. He was 89 years old and died of natural causes. Mr. Eyer attended the Groton School and Yale University, and had a distinguished naval career in WWII. He was a candidate for Congress in 1958. In recent years Mr. Eyer divided 
 HUNNEWELL -- Richard Farnsworth on September 29, age 81, in Newport, RI. Son of the late Emmeline Ticknor and James Frothingham Hunnewell of Boston, Richard graduated from St. Paul's School and Harvard College. He served in WW II as a Navy Lieutenant on the destroyer Charles J. Badger. Afte
 MONOSSON--Sonny. Of Newton, MA, and Hull, MA, on Friday, October 3, 2003. Beloved husband of Gloria (Haskins) Monosson. Devoted father of Susan Joy Kooper & Al Kooper, Judith Monosson Scherzer & Robert Scherzer, Deborah Jane Monosson & David Manfredi, and Emily Monosson & Ben Letcher. Lovin
 RIESER--David Nathan ''Bunny.'' Died September 18, 2003, Salt Lake City, UT. Born April 15, 1914, Long Island, NY, married Martha J. Leake August 3, 1950. His career in ladies retail spanned 50 years on the East Coast and Michigan. His generosity touched many and will continue through the M
 ROBBINS--Rex. We mourn the loss of our good friend who died on September 23 in South Dakota. We extend our condolences to his wife, Pat, and to their children, Maggie, Tim and Tory. The Yale Dramat Alumni Associates       
 ROCKOFF--Norman. October 22, 1931-September 29, 2003. A great husband, father, grandfather, friend and colleague. He is dearly loved and missed.       
 SEIFERT--Miles Parr Haszard. His family mourns the passing on October 3, of Miles Parr Haszard Seifert, of Greenwich, CT. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Memorial services to be held at Christ Episcopal Church on October 17, at 2 PM, in Greenwich. In lieu of flowers please send sen
 SMITH--Richard Wade. A spruce and handsome man of great style and talent; his extravagant heart brought love and joy to all who shall dearly miss him. Love, Redman Maxfield SMITH--Richard Wade. Dearest Richard, I thank God for your precious life and for your love of 31 years. I miss
 SMOOT--William Sidney, on October 1st, 2003 at age 89. Husband of Katharine S. for 57 years. Father of Sally Smoot Ingraham; grandfather of David Smoot Ingraham and Sarah Jennings Ingraham; brother of Charles Head Smoot and the late Barbara Smoot Ross. A mechanical and electrical engineer, 
 TERRY--James H., M.D. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our longtime friend and former colleague, James H. Terry, M.D. Prior to his retirment, Dr. Terry served with great distinction as a member of the hospital's surgical faculty
 Peter Waters, a superb bookbinder who became one of the world's leading authorities on large-scale book conservation, died on June 26 at his home in Fairfield, Pa. He was 73. The cause was heart failure due to mesothelioma, a rare form of cancer, his wife, Sheila, said. His 
 William Steig, whose insouciant cartoons of street-tough kids and squiggly drawings of satyrs, damsels, dogs and drunks delighted and challenged readers of The New Yorker for more than six decades, died Friday in Boston. He was 95. Mr. Steig was also the author of more than 25 child
 Joseph M. McCrane, who was instrumental in creating the Meadowlands sports complex and luring the New York Giants to New Jersey, died Sept. 28 in Napa, Calif. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. In 1970, as state treasurer under Gov. William T. Cahill, 
 EYER--George A. Jr. Died at his NYC residence on October 2, 2003. He was 89 years old and died of natural causes. Mr. Eyer attended the Groton School and Yale University, and had a distinguished naval career in WWII. He was a candidate for Congress in 1958. In recent years Mr. Eyer divided 
 ROSCHKO -- Joseph. Union Temple of Brooklyn mourns the loss of its beloved Honorary President, Joseph Roschko. For half a century, Joe was our trusted counselor, advisor and friend. He was a learned and devoted Jew. Our hearts are with his wife Zeva, and the entire Roschko family. Dr. Linda
 WAINWRIGHT--Charles Anthony ''Tony.'' 70, of Palm Beach, FL. On October 3, 2003. Born in Los Angeles, CA, and graduated from The Francis W. Parker School in Chicago, IL, and the University of Colorado at Boulder. Loving husband of Mary Beth; adored father of Colleen, Mary (deceased) and Eli
 Sidney S. McMath, a two-term governor of Arkansas who earned a reputation as a racial progressive in the years leading to the civil rights movement, died on Saturday at his home in Little Rock. He was 91. Mr. McMath, the governor from 1949 to 1953, was one of the South's promising p
 Fred Tuttle, a Vermont dairy farmer who in his late 70's won fame far beyond his fields by starring in a cult movie and winning the Republican nomination for United States Senate, died on Saturday. He was 84. Mr. Tuttle died of a heart attack on the same farm in Tunbridge, Vt., wher
 BRENNAN--Vincent P. Of Bronxville on October 4, 2003. Husband of Mary McMorrow Brennan, father of Mary Gerster, Vincent Brennan Jr., Joan Hearst and David Brennan. Grandfather of eight; great-grandfather of three. Brother of Donald. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, B
 CAYTON--Bill. Boxing Manager of the Year 14 times and Boxing Manager of seven world champions, died October 4, 2003. He was 85 years old. Loving husband of Doris, his wife of 58 years, who died three years ago. There was no day that passed he didn't say how much he loved and missed her. Ado
 DOWLING--William C., Jr. On October 3, 2003 at age 77. Owner of Cardow Jewelers, the Carib Beach Hotel and the Emerald Beach Resort. Son of the late William C. and Marion Dowling. Mass of Christian Burial at Cathedral of St. Peter and Paul, St. Thomas Virgin Islands, Friday October 10th, 1:
 EYER--George A. Jr. Died at his NYC residence on October 2, 2003. He was 89 years old and died of natural causes. Mr. Eyer attended the Groton School and Yale University, and had a distinguished naval career in WWII. He was a candidate for Congress in 1958. In recent years Mr. Eyer divided 
 HOROWITZ -- Lillian. The Board of Directors of The Stecher & Horowitz Foundation extends deepest sympathy to Norman Horowitz, Founder and Co-Executive Director upon the loss of his beloved mother. Robert S. Young, Chairman of the Board Melvin Stecher, Founder/Co-Exec Director       
 HUMPHREY -- Mark Alton. Died at age 40 on September 17, 2003 in Bay Ridge, Bklyn. Born in Rome, N.Y., he grew up in Northwich, England returning to the U.S. in 1983. Master carpenter, musician, poet and catalyst, he left us at the happiest time of his life. He was working on a musical with 
 PETERSEN--Frithjof R. Died peacefully with his children by his side. Beloved husband of the late Harriet Nadel Petersen. Loving father of Abigail Reingold (Daniel), Jane Coppotelli (Frank), Lisa Perez (Robert) and David Petersen. Cherished grandfather of Evan, Jared, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca,
 RADEMACHER -- Michael. Michael Rademacher Productions LLC acknowledges the passing of our founder, Michael Rademacher, at the age of 50. Due to legal difficulties which occurred after Michael's death, we are late publishing this notice. Michael leaves behind his wife, Maria, a son, Bryan, w
 ROCKLIN--Ralph J. Died on September 13, 2003, in the hospital. We thank you for sharing with us your love of New York City, libraries and museums, painters of light, prints, music and poetry, kittens and puns. He is survived by his children, Edward Rocklin of California, Peter Rocklin of Ne
 Israel H. Asper, the driving force behind Canada's largest media group and a prominent philanthropist, died on Tuesday in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He was 71. Mr. Asper became ill and was admitted to a local hospital earlier in the day, according to a spokesman for his company, who along 
 CROWN--Paul, Age 75, of Boynton Beach, FL, born and raised in Pittsburgh, PA, formerly of Long Island, NY, died October 6, 2003. Long time business owner in New York City, active member of Community Reform Temple of Westbury, NY and Congregation B'nai Israel in Boca Raton. Survivors include
 DOWLING--William C., Jr. On October 3, 2003 at age 77. Owner of Cardow Jewelers, the Carib Beach Hotel and the Emerald Beach Resort. Son of the late William C. and Marion Dowling. Mass of Christian Burial at Cathedral of St. Peter and Paul, St. Thomas Virgin Islands, Friday October 10th, 1:
 KAZICK--David. Survived by his wife, Evelyn, daughter, Soozin Kazick and granddaughter, Ashley Rosen.       
 PARKER--Thomas R., 86 years. Of Armonk, N.Y. Died October 1, 2003 at home. Husband of the late Josephine. Survived by his five children and five grandchildren. Funeral service at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, Armonk, N.Y. on Saturday, October 18 at 1 PM. Interment private.       
 PETERSEN--Frithjof R. Died peacefully with his children by his side. Beloved husband of the late Harriet Nadel Petersen. Loving father of Abigail Reingold (Daniel), Jane Coppotelli (Frank), Lisa Perez (Robert) and David Petersen. Cherished grandfather of Evan, Jared, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca,
 POSTMAN--Neil M., 72, on October 5, 2003. University Professor at New York University, pioneer in the field of media ecology. Former Chair of the department of Culture and Communication, author of more than 20 books including ''Amusing ourselves to Death,'' ''The Disappearance of Childhood,
 ROBBINS--Hon. Alfred S. The Board of Directors, Administration and Medical Staff of Winthrop-University Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of Judge Alfred S. Robbins, a good friend and great leader. Admitted to the New York State Bar in 1957, Judge Robbins' abilities were evident e
 ROCKLIN--Ralph J. Died on September 13, 2003, in the hospital. We thank you for sharing with us your love of New York City, libraries and museums, painters of light, prints, music and poetry, kittens and puns. He is survived by his children, Edward Rocklin of California, Peter Rocklin of Ne
 RUDKO--Samuel. Of Riverdale, NY. Died October 6th, 2003 in his 94th year. Beloved husband of the late Bess Rudko for 67 years. He leaves his two sons, Robert Rudko and his wife Nancy of MA, and Andrew Rudko and his wife Joyce of NYC. He had four grandchildren, Susan Listman, Rebecca Rudko, 
 SHAPIRO--Dr. Philip, 69, of Frederick, MD, died Saturday, October 4th at the Frederick Memorial Hospital. He was the husband of the late Ursula Shapiro who died May 8, 2001. Dr. Shapiro attended Columbia College and graduated from NYU Medical School. He practiced internal medicine in the Fr
 SLONIM--Michael L. Zeichner Ellman and Krause LLP mourns the loss, much too early in life, of its longtime counsel and friend, Michael Slonim. Michael, an intellectual lawyer's lawyer, served as a pillar of the firm. He was always a resource for difficult cases and at the same time, a mento
 SULTAN--Max. Age 96, died at his home in Brooklyn, on October 3th, 2003. Private services and burial were held October 5.       
 Lyle Bettger, a character actor who became one of the movies' most recognizable villains in the 1950's and 60's, died on Sept. 24 at the home of his son Lyle in Atascadero, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Paia, Hawaii. Mr. Bettger was best known for portraying ruthless types who were 
 Neil Postman, a prolific and influential social critic and educator best known for his warning that an era of mass communications is stunting the minds of children -- as well as adults -- died on Sunday at a hospital in Flushing, Queens. He was 72 and lived in Flushing. The cause wa
 BOYD--Robert F. Jr., Brooklyn Academy of Music mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Robert Boyd, and extends condolences to his wife, Amanda and family. A memorial service will be held at the BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street on Saturday, October 11, at 10:30AM, followed by Mass at St
 BRAISTED--Andrew Charles, PhD. Dr. Braisted died suddenly, on October 4, 2003, of suspected heart failure, leaving his wife Joelle Morrow, M.D. and their unborn son. Born in New York City in 1964, he resided for much of his adult life in San Francisco. He was a graduate of Bates College and
 DOR--Benny. Beloved husband of Bobby. Loving father of Gal, Orna (Shimi), Rachel, Howie (Liz) and Josh. Adoring grandfather of Liam and Oliver. Dear brother of Batsheva (Moshe). Cherished son-in-law of Estelle and Eugene Ferkauf. Loving nephew of Flo Thorn. Services today 11:15 AM, ''Sinai 
 HALPERIN--Bernard, 77, on October 8, 2003, of Saddle River, NJ. An innovator in the retail clothing industry and pioneer in import industry from China. A great supporter of Israel and Jewish causes. Devoted husband of Linda, loving children David and Michael, and cherished grandfather. Serv
 HAMMERMAN -- Murray. Age 93 on October 4 at home. Served on the City College Centennial Comm. with Justice Frankfurter, Bernard Baruch & Mayor Beame. Exec. Dir., N. Atlantic Milk Processor's Assoc., VP Council of Talmud Torah Edu., officer, Washington Hts. Cong. with Sarah (z''l), parents o
 LAI--William T. (Buck). Long Island University mourns the loss of one of its own, Buck Lai. As a student, faculty member, coach, administrator and benefactor, he enriched the University community for more than 66 years. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to his beloved wife
 POSTMAN--Neil. The Faculty of the Steinhardt School of Education at New York University deeply mourn the loss of Neil Postman, our beloved colleague and founder of our program in Media Ecology, longtime Chair of the Department of Culture and Communication. Neil was an education reformer, hu
 SULTAN--Max. Age 96, died at his home in Brooklyn, on October 3, 2003. Private services and burial were held October 5.       
 WINER--Rabbi Gershon. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, author and professor emeritus of Yiddish literature at Bar-Ilan University in Israel. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbi
 WOLD--Keith Clinton, MD, 79, passed away at his home in Boca Raton on October 1, 2003, after a lengthy illness. Dr. Wold was born in St Paul, Minnesota, in 1924, the son of Karl Christian Wold, M.D. and Maybelle Lundgren Wold. He graduated from St. Paul Academy in 1942, received his B.S. in
 Stephen Jay Rose, a founder of AC&R Advertising, which specialized in fashion, retail and high-end brands like Estée Lauder, the cosmetics maker, and Foot Locker, the athletic shoe retailer, died on Sept. 30 at his home in St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands. He was 77. The cause was 
 Arthur Berger, an American composer whose rugged, economically scored music straddles Neo-Classicism and Serialism, and who established a sideline career as a thoughtful writer and critic, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Boston. He was 91 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Mr. Berger wa
 Charles Courtney Seabrook, who with his brothers and father carried out food-freezing experiments in the early days of the frozen food industry, died on Saturday at the Friends Home in Woodstown, N.J. He was 94. In 1930 Mr. Seabrook, his brothers Belford and John, and their father, 
 Henry L. Giordano, a pharmacist who went undercover as a federal drug agent and eventually surfaced to take charge of the Treasury Department's narcotics bureau in the 1960's, died on Sept. 19 in Olney, Md. He was 89 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. President John F. Kennedy chose Mr
 ASPER--Israel. The Shalem Center of Jerusalem mourns the untimely loss of Israel Asper. A bold visionary and passionate defender of Israel, he worked tirelessly on behalf of the Jewish people around the world. We offer heartfelt condolences to Babs, Gail, David, Leonard, and the entire Aspe
 GOLDEN -- Julius. Passed away peacefully on October 8th, 2 days before his 80th birthday. Respected and loved by Mimi, his wife of 53 years; his sons Lester, Paul and Richard and their wives Gabriella, Alaine and Tessa; grandchildren Sarah, Jeremy, Ariel and Kate Celia; his sister Lucy Stig
 HALPERN--John S. Of New York City died October 8th after a brave and valiant battle. Husband to Kate, father to Duncan, Alison and Cynthia, grandfather to Hope and Eva, friend to many. He will be missed greatly for among other things, his humor, wisdom and passion. In lieu of flowers please
 LEVINE--Charles Edward. On October 9, 2003 at 52 years of age. Much loved son of Hillel Levine and Renee (Goldstein), loving brother of Steven, Lauren and Michael, cherished brother-in-law of Nora and Keith. Loving uncle of Shari and Jenna. Charles died from complications of his recent bypa
 PERKIN--Richard Talmage. Of New York City, on October 9, 2003. Age 72. Loving husband of Leslie Manning Bergesch, devoted father of Kristina, Nicolas and Caroline, and proud grandfather of Olympia Talmage Davison. Born on July 13, 1931, Mr. Perkin was the son of the late Richard Scott Perki
 PRESSMAN--Dr. Paul Samuel, on October 8, 2003 at age 74. Born on June 13, 1929 to Benjamin & Lena (Rifkin) Pressman. He served as captain in the US Army prior to becoming a psychiatrist. An avid chess and tennis player, he also enjoyed baroque and classical music. He married his first wife,
 VASIL--Stephen T. Died October 9, 2003. Beloved husband of Dorothy. His love of art, music and life will be cherished. He will be sorely missed by family and friends.       
 Eugene Istomin, the American pianist who was as renowned for his chamber music performances as he was for his individualistic, deeply considered solo playing, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 77. The cause was liver cancer, said a spokeswoman for the John F. Kennedy 
 HALPERN--John S. Of New York City died October 8th after a brave and valiant battle. Husband to Kate, father to Duncan, Alison and Cynthia, grandfather to Hope and Eva, friend to many. He will be missed greatly for among other things, his humor, wisdom and passion. In lieu of flowers please
 HENNEFELD -- Edmund B. On October 9, 2003 at age 971/2. Married for 72 years to Lillian. Survived by his children Erica Abeel and Julien Hennefeld, and four grandchildren. During the 70s, he was one of the Premier Appellate Lawyers in New York City's Corporation Counsel. He was also a lawye
 ISTOMIN--Eugene. Manhattan School of Music mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Eugene Istomin, esteemed pianist and humanitarian, dear friend and longtime faculty member, and beloved husband of our president, Marta Casals Istomin. For more than 50 years, Mr. Istomin was an inspiratio
 PERKIN--Richard T. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society mourn the death of our friend, Richard Perkin. He was elected a Trustee in 1978 and served on a number of committees with particular interest in furthering the work of the Wildlife Health and Sciences Co
 RESNICK--Irving. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irving Resnick. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to his wife and to his entire family.       
 Vincent P. Brennan, a retired executive of Bloomingdale's, died on Oct. 4 at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 84. In nearly 40 years at the department store, Mr. Brennan held a variety of management positions in what is now commonly called human resources. In the 1950's he was di
 John Darcy Noble, who so adored dolls and toys that he became a leading museum curator, theorist, collector and creator of playthings, died on Sept. 21 at his home in Vista, Calif. He was 80. The cause was complications of diabetes, said his companion of 44 years, Robert M. Clement,
 COY--James J. Age 89, at home in East Hampton, NY. Senior VP Talcott Commercial Finance. 38 year Director First Investors Corp. Survived by wife of 64 years Evelyn Poppiti, children Cleo Coy, Jamie Coy Wallace and Christopher Coy. Another son Gregory Coy predeceased him. Grandchildren Andre
 DICKSTEIN -- Benjamin. On Friday, October 10, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Kate. Devoted father of Linda Dienst, Paul and Diane and father-in-law of Robin and Elliott Vichinsky. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Jill, Jonathon and Victoria, Jennifer and Jeffrey, Laura, Alex, Isabel a
 ELLNER--Samuel. Age 99. ''Sam'' passed away peacefully at home in Tamarac, FL on October 6, 2003. He is survived by his beloved children Gene Ellner and his wife Amy of Huntington, New York and daughter Sallie Ellner of Mount Laurel, NJ. He leaves grandchildren Joey, Nancy and Eddie (deceas
 FIRESTONE--Jack. The partners and staff of Finkel Goldstein Berzow Rosenbloom & Nash, LLP, mourn the loss of Jack Firestone, a respected client and dear friend. Our deepest sympathies to his wife Dorothy, his son Jerry, and his daughter Diane.       
 FRIEDEN--Dr. Julian. The Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine of Montefiore Medical Center and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine is saddened to learn of the death of Dr. Julian Frieden. Dr. Frieden was a professor of clinical cardiology at the medical school and longtime ass
 FULLER--Joseph Sr., AIA. Of Westport, CT, died peacefully at home on Sunday, October 5, 2003. Mr. Fuller was born on November 18, 1926 in Czechoslovakia. He was a member of American Institute of Architects and founder of Fuller and D'Angelo, Architects in Elmsford, NY. He is survived by his
 GRAFF--Edward R. Jr. Of Siesta Key, FL on October 5, 2003. Son of the late Dr. Edward Graff and Eugenia Clark Graff of FL. Survived by his son Edward III of Corfu, NY and grandsons Michael and Spencer. He leaves a sister, Eugenia of Brooklyn and brothers Robert of Chicago and John and L. Ch
 ISTOMIN--Eugene, international concert pianist, (November 26, 1925-October 10, 2003), beloved husband of Marta Casals Istomin, loyal and generous friend, and mentor to many. He was celebrated and respected as a recitalist, orchestral soloist, chamber musician and teacher for more than half 
 LEICHTMAN--Paul. On October 8, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Frances Simmons Leichtman. Brother of Carl and Allie. Devoted father of Gail Macht-Martin (Alvin) and Jane Freeman (Stuart). Adoring grandfather of Hilary Macht Felgran (Steven), Timothy Macht (Laurie Abraham), David Freeman a
 MARGOLIS--David. On October 8, 2003, age 92, of Greenwich Village, NYC. Deeply loved and admired husband of Ruth and father of Eugenia, Helene and Adrienne. Loving uncle of Stanley and Murray Zimiles and their families, and of Rachel Golan and family, Samuel Weinblat and family. Dear friend
 PARKER--Thomas R., 86 years. Of Armonk, N.Y. Died October 1, 2003 at home. Husband of the late Josephine. Survived by his five children and five grandchildren. Funeral service at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, Armonk, N.Y. on Saturday, October 18 at 1 PM. Interment private.       
 RICH--Harry M. 80 years old. Died peacefully on October 9th. Beloved father of Jeffrey (Olivia), Marc (Debra) and Lisa (Richard). Adored grandfather of Blake, Kelly, Wyatt, Jackson, Mackenzie, Alec. He will be missed.       
 ROZEL--Samuel J., who recently retired as senior vice president, general counsel, and a member of the executive committee of North American Philips, died suddenly at his home in New Canaan, CT, Saturday morning, August 30th. He was 68 years old. Mr. Rozel had been vice president, general co
 SEGALL--Joel E. On October 9, 2003. Cherished husband of Joan; loving father of Patricia and son - in - law Michael; proud and devoted grandfather of Samuel, beloved brother of Sandra and Arlyne. An internationally known economist, he had successful careers in both government and higher edu
 SMITH--Richard Wade. We mourn the death of our marvelous friend, Richard Wade Smith. His generous spirit, his caring friendship and his sense of style enhanced all of our lives immeasurably. He will be deeply missed. Memorial Service at Central Presbyterian Church, 64 St & Park Ave, 11AM, O
 YABLON--Melvin. On October 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Lynda. Adored brother of Shirley Tahler. Wonderful father of Perry and Jonathon. Loving grandfather of Taylor and Travis. Dear brother-inlaw of Jeff Furman and sonin-law of Sally Furman. Wonderful uncle and great-uncle to many. Service
 EISENSTEIN--Alvin Gordon. Remembered always by his loving family and friends. 10/12/15--10/26/87       
 Bill Shoemaker, the 4-foot-11, 98-pound dynamo who was among horse racing's most renowned figures and who rode the winners of 11 Triple Crown races, died yesterday at his home in San Marino, Calif. He was 72. Shoemaker died in his sleep, Paddy Gallagher, his assistant in his years a
 Darrell Henline, publisher and editor of the monthly magazine Cabaret Scenes, died on Sept. 25 at his home in Guttenberg, N.J. He was 75. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Peter Leavy, an editor at the magazine. Mr. Henline started Cabaret Scenes in 1995
 Emil Ludwig Fackenheim, a German-born philosopher and Jewish theologian who sought to place the Holocaust in the context of Judaism, died on Sept. 19 in Jerusalem, where he had lived after retiring from the University of Toronto in 1984. He was 87. Dr. Fackenheim narrowly escaped fr
 DICKSTEIN -- Benjamin. On Friday, October 10, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Kate. Devoted father of Linda Dienst, Paul and Diane and father-in-law of Robin and Elliott Vichinsky. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Jill, Jonathon and Victoria, Jennifer and Jeffrey, Laura, Alex, Isabel a
 HARDY--Jean. On October 11, 2003, at age 78. Retired Executive Secretary of Administrative Tribunal at the United Nations, wishes to thank all friends in the course of his long life. Beloved husband of Wako Hardy and loving father of Chantal Hardy. Services and interment private.       
 ISTOMIN -- Eugene. We mourn the passing of a great artist and wonderful friend. Eugene, we will miss playing with you and sharing great wine and good times together. Our hearts are with you, Martita. Sharon and Jaime Laredo ISTOMIN--Eugene. Manhattan School of Music mourns with prof
 LASKIN--Benjamin. Age 94. Of NYC, NY. Died October 11, 2003. He served his country in World War II/US Air Force. ''Although he was an educated and knowledgeable individual, what he valued most was his family.'' He is preceded in death by his late wife, Rosemary Laskin. Survivors: two daught
 MILAZZO--Rev. Nicholas F. Entered eternal life on October 10, 2003. Pastor of St. Anthony Church, Wakefield, the Bronx. Ordained 51 years, serving 46 of those years in the Bronx. Survived by his sister Marie Carmela Maneri and many loving nieces and nephews. Reposing Tuesday and Wednesday a
 PINCUS--Harold. October 9, 2003. Husband, father, grandfather, great - grandfather. Rsepected member of the Sunset Park business community since 1949. Will be deeply missed by those he left behind. Services to be held Tuesday, October 14, 2003, at Parkside Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave, at 11:3
 CAVALLI--Dr. Paul V. The Board of Trustees of LibertyHealth and its Meadowlands Hospital Campus along with all of its physicians and staff mourn with profound sorrow the passing of Dr. Paul V. Cavalli, founder and longtime President of Meadowlands Hospital. Dr. Cavalli was celebrated and re
 DARVIN--Leonard. A retired general counsel for the Comics Magazine Association of America, died October 13, 2003 of natural causes in Albany, NY. He was 94. Mr. Darvin was born in Poland, but grew up in Baltimore, MD. During his early teens, he won the Maryland State Championship in track a
 FERRIS--Albert G. of Point Lookout, LI. On October 9, 2003. Beloved husband of Muriel (nee Stokes). Loving father of Robert A. and his wife Evelyn, and the late Gerard. Cherished grandfather of five. Memorial mass Wednesday 10 AM Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal R.C. Church, Point Lookout, 
 FRISCHLING--Irving. 94, died on Sunday, October 12, 2003. Loving husband of the late Anne, beloved father of Carl and Adele, Steven and Ruth, Rosely, and the late Eleanor. Devoted grandfather of Nica and Rob, Amos, Billy and Amy, Jimmy, Teddy, Estee, Menucha, Yael, and Sholom. Adoring great
 HAHN--Prof. Dr. Fred. On Sunday, October 12, 2003. Educator, international lecturer, prominent member of the Czech Jewish Community, President of the Congregation of Jews from Austria, and the Joseph Popper Lodge. Beloved husband of the late Edith H. Devoted father of Susan and Jeanette. Ca
 HARDY--Jean. On October 11, 2003, at age 78. Retired Executive Secretary of Administrative Tribunal at the United Nations, wishes to thank all friends in the course of his long life. Beloved husband of Wako Hardy and loving father of Chantal Hardy. Services and interment private.       
 ISTOMIN--Eugene. The Musicians, Trustees and Staff of The Marlboro Music School & Festival mourn the loss of a valued friend and participant and extend sincere sympathy to his devoted wife and our board member Marta Istomin. In his summers at Marlboro and throughout his professional life Eu
 LAMONT--Donald Breck. Of Hobe Sound, Florida. Husband of Mary Ann Hamilton Lamont, father of Pamela J. Lamont of California and Susan R. Lamont of Connecticut. Died on October 8, 2003 at the age of 83. He was a Californian, raised in San Francisco, graduated from The Phillips Exeter Academy
 PERKIN--Richard Talmage. Of New York City, on October 9, 2003. Age 72. Loving husband of Leslie Manning Bergesch, devoted father of Kristina, Nicolas and Caroline, and proud grandfather of Olympia Talmage Davison. Born on July 13, 1931, Mr. Perkin was the son of the late Richard Scott Perki
 PERRONE--Mario. On October 11, 2003. Loving husband of the late Linda Perrone. Devoted father of Laura Perrone, Michael Perrone and Anna Lodi. Cherished grandfather of Max, Tishna and Dean. Devoted brother of Giovanna Tatafiore of Naples, Italy. Family will receive friends Tuesday, 2-5 and 
 TANG--Dennis Thompson, 52, beloved husband of Paula J. Leicht, of Elizabethtown, PA. Died October 11, 2003. Formerly of Tenafly, NJ., he was the son of Dr. Yushang Tang of Tenafly, NJ., and the late Clifton C. Tang. He is also survived by a brother, Stanley Tang, of Swathmore, PA., and eigh
 VAN HOY--Milton Spangler was born October 6, 1943 in Orange, NJ, the first son of Helen and Joe Van Hoy. He died in Durham, NC, October 10, 2003 in the presence of his loving partner Mark Ludwig. He is survived by two brothers, Houston and Philip, in Charlotte, NC, and many cousins in the M
 NOBLE--John Darcy. Friend, mentor and inspiration for Kiki's Doll House where Gertrude Stein and Man Ray toast him at midnight over a loaf of pain bleu. Salut! Judith Malli       
 William Bennett, a rock guitarist and entrepreneur whose studio near ground zero provided a haven to frustrated performers with day jobs on Wall Street who dreamed of playing live rock and roll, died on Oct. 7 at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 49. The cause was complications of in
 PETRA, that Jordanian ''rose-red city half as old as time,'' is a spectacular place where a narrow, dark ravine suddenly opens into a vista of massive temples with Hellenic columns and pediments carved into red sandstone cliffs. It was the capital of the Nabateans, whose sophisticated tradi
 Carl Fontana, a jazz trombonist whose effortless-sounding virtuosity became widely known through his tenure with the Woody Herman and Stan Kenton bands, died on Thursday in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 75. He had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Fontana was 
 Joel E. Segall, an economist and former president of Baruch College whose master plan helped make the business-oriented school a major presence in Manhattan, died on Thursday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 80 and lived in Branford. Dr. Segall, who earlier had a career at the
 BASS--Leon. The law firm of Ledy-Gurren & Blumenstock mourns the loss of Leon Bass, loving father of our partner and friend, Debbie Bass, and the late Gwen Bass. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Debbie and his beloved wife Ruth, who have now twice suffered inestimable loss. Our thoughts 
 DINEHART--Peter. January 4, 1952--October 5, 2003. Born in NYC. Greatly missed by Donna and Sara Holder, and his sisters Catherine Dinehart and Patrice Hickox.       
 FINBERG -- Alfred J. Of Brooklyn and East Brunswick, NJ, on October 12, 2003. Food technologist. Beloved husband of Bernice (nee Aks), and loving father of Stephanie Graham and Charles Finberg. His first wife Edna (nee) Miller, predeceased him.       
 FRISCHLING--Irving. Our sincere condolences to Rosely, Steven, and their families. To our dear friend, Cuppy: The love, caring and devotion you, Delly and your children showered on ''Pop'' surely was the reason he was happy and fulfilled these past several difficult years. In Pop's Washingt
 NOBLE--John Darcy. Friend, mentor and inspiration for Kiki's Doll House where Gertrude Stein and Man Ray toast him at midnight over a loaf of pain bleu. Salut! Judith Mallin       
 RENCKENS--James R. With deep sorrow the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, its Board of Directors and staff mourn the passing of James Renckens. Jim joined the NMSS Minnesota Chapter Board of Trustees in 1991, serving as Chair from 1993-1996; he was elected to the National Board in 2003. 
 ROSENBERG -- Michael L. The Board of Directors and staff of Stella and Charles Guttman Foundation, Inc. mourn the passing of Michael L. Rosenberg, the son of our esteemed fellow Director and friend, Sunny Rosenberg, and son of our late Director and President, Abraham Rosenberg. We extend ou
 SCHIPANI--Joseph. Beloved husband of the late Ann. Devoted father of Frank and Robert. Cherished grandfather of Stephen, Mia and Joseph. Loving great grandfather of Vincent and Erica. He was a friend to a countless number of people and will be missed greatly. His family will always be indeb
 SEGALL--Joel. The entire Baruch College community mourns the loss of Baruch's former President, Joel Segall. President Segall served the College as its tireless champion, developing a master plan for the outstanding Library and Technology Center and the breathtaking new Vertical Campus, and
 Ram Gopal, one of the greatest Indian dancers of the 20th century and a pioneer in acquainting Western audiences with traditional Indian dance, died on Sunday in a nursing home in southwest London. He was believed to be in his 80's or early 90's. Mr. Gopal was always reticent about 
 Dr. Bertram N. Brockhouse, who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1994 for his work developing a technique to measure the atomic structure of matter, died on Monday in Hamilton, Ontario. He was 85. An emeritus professor of physics at McMaster University in Hamilton, Dr. Brockhouse
 Edward T. Breathitt Jr., a former Democratic governor of Kentucky who made civil rights his theme at a time when few politicians below the Mason-Dixon line would do so, died on Tuesday at the University of Kentucky Hospital in Lexington. He was 78 and lived in Lexington. He collapse
 DAMBRA -- Joseph Paul. Passed quietly, in the presence of his son, on October 11, 2003. He was 53, and is also survived by a treasured daughter, along with her loyal son. Cherished husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, nephew, cousin, and friend. Family and friends mourn with unspea
 FASTENBERG--Milton. Died on October 15, 2003 at the age of 91 in Phoenix, AZ. Milton practiced internal medicine on the Upper West Side for more than 40 years and dedicated his life to helping those in need, always studying so as to better serve others. He was cherished by his family and be
 GALLAGHER -- Reverend William Patrick, 64, died October 13, 2003. Born June 9, 1939. Predeceased by his parents Francis D. and E. Rose (McGovern) Gallagher and his stepmother Kay Gallagher. Survived by a twin brother, John, an aunt, Ann Sheridan of Rutland, VT, several nieces, one nephew, m
 GOLDSTEIN -- Ann. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of Dr. Matthew Goldstein, a respected member of our Board of Overseers. To Dr. Goldstein and his family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva Un
 LAMONT--Donald Breck. Of Hobe Sound, Florida. Husband of Mary Ann Hamilton Lamont, father of Pamela J. Lamont of California and Susan R. Lamont of Connecticut. Died on October 8, 2003 at the age of 83. He was a Californian, raised in San Francisco, graduated from The Phillips Exeter Academy
 LAW--David Buchanan, 65, died at his home on Friday, October 10th after a 6-month battle with cancer. He is survived by his wife, Jane Cullen Law; their two children; Christopher and Peter; his former wife Kathleen Marion Law and their children Laura Law Ney, Eric Law, Jennifer Law, all of 
 MARGOLIN--Henrietta. The Board of Trustees, Administration & staff of Parker Jewish Institute deeply mourn the passing of Henrietta Margolin, beloved mother of our dear friend, Jesse Margolin. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jesse and his wife Toni, sister Evelyn, and the entire Marg
 SAPHIER--Peter, 89, of Great Neck, NY. on October 14, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice Saphier. Brother to Helen. He is survived by his loving life partner, Nancy Stohn. He was the loving father to Michael and Stewart and daughters-in-law Ruthann and Jane. Adored grandfather to Da
 SEIFERHELD--James David, on October 13, at his home in Hagerstown, MD. Son of the late Elizabeth Fitzpatrick and David Seiferheld. Father of Andrew Gage (Geri) and Scott Seiferheld. Native New Yorker. Graduate of the Browning School. Tennis player, photographer and avid memorabilia collecto
 Lee Bailey, an expert on the stylish life well known for his writing, cooking and photography and his work as a designer of home furnishings, died yesterday at his apartment in Chelsea. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He had had a series of strokes, inclu
 BERGER--Arthur. The directors and officers of The Aaron Copland Fund for Music, Inc. note with sorrow the death of Arthur Berger, Trustee of the Fund since its inception. Arthur was a composer of great vitality, integrity and aesthetic purity. He contributed greatly to the shaping and guida
 CHESTON--George M., age 86, on October 15th, 2003 of Philadelphia. Survived by his wife Winifred ''Peggy''. Funeral service 11:30AM on October 20, at The Church of the Redeemer, Pennswood and New Gulph Roads, Bryn Mawr, PA. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Philadelphia M
 FASTENBERG--Milton. Died on October 15, 2003 at the age of 91 in Phoenix, AZ. Milton practiced internal medicine on the Upper West Side for more than 40 years and dedicated his life to helping those in need, always studying so as to better serve others. He was cherished by his family and be
 GARABEDIAN -- Dennis P. The Board of Trustees of Long Island Educational TV Council, Inc. and the staff of WLIW21 mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed Board Member, Dennis Garabedian, on October 10, 2003. Dennis was a dedicated member of our Board and a generous contributor of both ti
 GOLDSTEIN--Ann. On behalf of the trustees and staff of the Italian American Museum, and the Italian American community, we extend our sincerest condolences to our friend & supporter, Dr. Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor of the City University of New York, and to his family on the passing of hi
 KRISBERG -- Norman. The Mary McDowell Center for Learning mourns the loss of one of our founding Trustees and most dedicated supporters. We love, respected and depended on Norman. He was particularly effective at combining business sense and common sense with the Quaker process. As Treasure
 MEIER--Frederick P. Of Little Neck, NY, suddenly on October 13, 2003. Beloved husband of Ann, devoted father of Eunice. Funeral was completed. Donations can be made to the American Civil Liberties Union in his name.       
 SAPHIER--Peter, 89, of Great Neck, NY. on October 14, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice Saphier. Brother to Helen. He is survived by his loving life partner, Nancy Stohn. He was the loving father to Michael and Stewart and daughters-in-law Ruthann and Jane. Adored grandfather to Da
 SEIFERHELD--James David, on October 13, at his home in Hagerstown, MD. Son of the late Elizabeth Fitzpatrick and David Seiferheld. Father of Andrew Gage (Geri) and Scott Seiferheld. Native New Yorker. Graduate of the Browning School. Tennis player, photographer and avid memorabilia collecto
 Richard Talmage Perkin, a television executive and philanthropist who founded the VZV Research Foundation, which backs research and education about chickenpox, shingles and other infections caused by the varicella-zoster virus, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 72. He was chairm
 Ben Metcalfe, a founder of the small environmental group that over three decades grew into Greenpeace International, with three million members, died Tuesday at his home on Shawnigan Lake, Vancouver Island, British Columbia. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, the organization 
 John Hawkesworth, a British television writer and producer whose long-running nighttime soap opera, ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' became an equally long-running hit on American public television in the 1970's, died on Sept. 30 in Leicester, England. He was 82. Mr. Hawkesworth produced a
 AMSTER--Sidney, age 84, of Enfield, CT, Marine Corps. veteran of W.W. II, died on October 15, 2003. Survived by sons David and Larry and five grandchildren. Made his mark on every life he touched. A truly gentle man.       
 CHENE--Armand H. Age 99, on October 17, 2003, passed away suddenly and peacefully. He left behind his wife Raymonde, his children Claude and Aenne, and his beloved grandchildren Jasper and Oliver, as well as a multitude of loving family and friends. A memorial service will be held at Rivers
 McMAHON--James Kane II. On October 15, 2003. Of Brooklyn Hts., NY and Lake Mohawk, NJ. Survived by loving mother Mary Elizabeth McMahon; devoted brother of Joan Marie McMahon, both of Sparta, NJ. Predeceased by his father James Kane McMahon. Mass of Christian burial Monday 11 AM at Our Lady
 MALTIN--Aaron I. October 18, 2002 Remembered always by his loving family and friends       
 James R. Lawson, who climbed to perches in towers -- including one in Riverside Church on the Upper West Side of Manhattan -- to make exquisite music by ringing bells, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Cody, Wyo. He was 84. Mr. Lawson was a carillonneur, one of the best known in 
 ALDEN--John. Of Solana Beach, CA, passed away peacefully at home surrounded by his family on October 16, 2003. Formerly a resident of Evanston, IL, and White Plains, NY, Johnny is survived by his wife Cheryl Bastian Alden, five children and nine grandchildren.       
 BAPIS--George M. On October 16, 2003, in New York City. Beloved husband of Helene and father of twin daughters Michaela and Maria. Brother of Nick (Elaine) and Jeannie (Peter) duPont. Uncle of Laura and Andrew duPont, and Michael (Eleni) and Alethia Bapis. Son of Michael and Maxine Bapis. E
 BERGER--Arthur. The directors and officers of The Aaron Copland Fund for Music, Inc. note with sorrow the death of Arthur Berger, Trustee of the Fund since its inception. Arthur was a composer of great vitality, integrity and aesthetic purity. He contributed greatly to the shaping and guida
 BRODY--Robert David. Died October 5, at Schnurmacher Nursing Home. He is survived by his sister Janice Gerton and his niece Stephanie Miles. Memorial at Mrs. Gerton's to be announced.       
 FEDER--Shlomo (Solomon), died October 9, 2003. Greatly loved and missed by his wife Judith; children Meir, Miriam and Aryeh; grandchildren Adin, Ezra, Devorah, Aaron and Leora; and brother Joseph. Beloved father-inlaw of Abbe, Israel and Rachel. Burial was in Israel. Memorial service 3PM Su
 GERARD--Dr. Bert S., 79, on October 9 after a long battle with Parkinson's Disease, at home in Chandler, AZ. Educator, writer, poet, storyteller, and basso profundo, his impact on public and religious education continues to be felt in schools and synagogues from Manhasset to Phoenix. He is 
 HAHN--Prof. Dr. Fred. At 97, on October 12, 2003. The Society for the History of Czechoslovak Jews, Inc., mourns the passing of its longtime Vice President, Fred Hahn. Old world gentleman and scholar, he was widely respected and beloved, an inspiration to generations, tireless and energetic
 JOHNSON -- George. The Board of Directors, officers and employees of Mutual of America record with deep sorrow the passing of George E. Johnson. Mr. Johnson was a former acting president, member of the Board of Trustees, and a dear friend. In later years, he made his home in Tucson, AZ. For
 MICHAELS -- Richard, 65, stage director, died of heart failure Saturday, September 13 in his home in Kingston, NY. He was 65. Before his retirement and move to Kingston he directed well over one hundred musical and dramatic productions. His offBroadway revival of ''No Strings'' was heralded
 RUBIN--Milton. On October 17, 2003, at the age of 86. Past President of the American Academy of Arbitrators, Impartial Chair for the NYC firefighters and officers, and the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. He was a past member of the Musicians Union and a jazz clarinetist who perf
 SACKLER--Alvin M., DDS. October 11th. Son of the late Dr. Henry and Yetta Sackler. Beloved husband and best friend to Mildred (nee Weisman) for 52 years. Cherished father to Michael (Lori) and Dr. Helen (Harry Rosenberg). Delighted grandfather to Henry and Eliot-Evan and Madeline. Brother t
 Alija Izetbegovic, the former Bosnian president whose dream of a Muslim-led independent Bosnia and Herzegovina was transformed by Balkan ethnic rivalries into a protracted war, died Sunday in Sarajevo. He was 78 years old. The cause of death was heart disease complicated by injuries
 Dr. Aubrey Gorbman, a zoologist who helped pioneer the study of endocrine systems and hormones in animals and humans and explored the relationships of the systems among different species, died on Sept. 21 at his home in Seattle. He was 88. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his
 Charlie Justice, the University of North Carolina's all-American tailback known as Choo Choo who was among college football's most celebrated players of the late 1940's, died Friday at his home in Cherryville, N.C. Justice, who had been in poor health in recent years, was 79. Zigzag
 ELBERG--Yehuda, died on October 18, 2003, at the age of 91. Internationally renowned Yiddish author who turned his Holocaust experience in Poland into award-winning literature. Active in the Polish Underground, in the Lodz Ghetto Community and in NY, at the Hebrew Immigrant and Aid Society.
 GUREASKO--H. Russell. On October 9, 2003, age 75. WW II veteran, USMC pilot, law school graduate, recordsmanagement professional. Mourned by his beloved companion Liljan Wunderman and her two children and two grandchildren. He is survived by two sisters.       
 RUBIN--Milton. On October 17, 2003, at the age of 86. Past President of the American Academy of Arbitrators, Impartial Chair for the NYC firefighters and officers, and the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. He was a past member of the Musicians Union and a jazz clarinetist who perf
 SIMONTON -- John Thayer, MD FACS, of Rye, New York, died peacefully on October 17, 2003. He is survived by his loving daughter Linda Simonton Goldstein, his son John Garnett Simonton, his son-inlaw Marvin Jerome Goldstein, his grandchildren, Frederick Beidler Simonton, Mariah Garnett Simont
 Dr. Ivan Getting, a major force behind the development of the Global Positioning System, the network of satellites that pinpoint locations on Earth within a range of feet, died on Oct. 11 at his home in Coronado, Calif. He was 91. Dr. Getting conceived the satellite technology in th
 AGNEW--William H., 83, of Maplewood, formerly of Summit, NJ. On Saturday, October 18, 2003. He was a pioneer in the insurance business, as a Principal of Post and Kurtz Inc., NYC. He was a decorated Marine Corps Major in Okinawa, a dedicated volunteer to his alma mater Amherst College and a
 CHERR--Walter. On Sunday October 19, 2003, 74, of Scotch Plains, NJ. Husband of Sallie (nee Coleman). Father of Diane Leslie Cherr-Bachman (Richard) and Peter Cherr. Brother of Dr. Donald Cherr. Grandfather of Kimberlee and Rebecca Bachman. Long time friend of Bill Wilson. Walter was a Grad
 GREENWALD--Raymond J. On October 18, 2003 at age 81. Ray left a beloved wife, Pearl, nephew James Kaye and his wife Meryl, his adored ''grandchildren'' Marissa, Mathew and Sarah Kaye, and loving cousins. Son of the late Samuel and Anne Greenwald, brother of the late Muriel Kaye. A life long
 ISENBERG--Morris, MD, of Forest Hills, NY on October 19, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Frieda (Epstein) for 56 years. Devoted father of Edward, Elliott and Howard. Loving grandfather of Karen Clements and Paula Zuckerman. Great-grandfather of Lauren and Brian Clements and Emma Zuckerman
 JORDAN--Vance. 60 years of age died today after a brief illness. He is survived by his sister Jill and two nephews. Services will be private. JORDAN--Vance. An unwavering eye in an era of declining standards. A loss for the American art field. David Dufour       
 OKUN--Leo, 87. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on October 20, 2003. Husband of the late Eleanor. Beloved by his children Phyllis, Walter, Sharon, Marci, grandchildren Jared, Todd, Adam, Marney and siblings Harold, Arthur, Sybil.       
 PERKIN--Richard. NewYork Weill Cornell Medical Center mourns the loss of its esteemed Weill Cornell Council member, Richard Perkin. We will miss his friendship and his commitment to the advancement of medical research. We extend our deepest condolences to his family.       
 PERLMUTTER -- Al. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member Al Perlmutter and extends heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Eve and family. We pray that they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Linda Altman, President Rabbi Charles A. Klein       
 PHILIP--Reinald. On October 20, 2003 at the age of 86. Beloved husband of 56 years and cherished father and grandfather. Survived by his wife Victoria (nee deBurgos), his daughters Celeste and Claudia, and five grandchildren. Services Wed, 10:15AM ''Sinai Chapels'', 162-05 Horace Harding Ex
 SHOEMAKER--Robert Jeffrey, 56, a founding member of New York's Judith Shakespeare Company, died at home in Manhattan October 16th, 2003. The actor was born in 1947 in NYC. He was educated in Arizona and at the Menlo School in California. Shoemaker attended the University of Arizona before j
 SIMON--Leo. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away peacefully surrounded by his family on October 19. Formerly of the Lower East Side and Queens, NY. Honest Leo was 87 and began his career driving a truck when he was 13 years old. He was the owner of Simon Haulage, a self made man and entrepreneur.
 Ralph Francis Salerno, a highly decorated New York City policeman and an authority on organized crime, died last Wednesday in Scranton, Pa. A former resident of Woodside, Queens, he was 78 and had lived in Lake Ariel, Pa., since 1988. The cause was congestive heart failure, his fami
 Vance Jordan, a leading dealer in American art and a pioneer in promoting the American Arts and Crafts Movement, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, his sister, Jill Spangler, said. In the late
 Charles E. F. Millard, who as chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Bottling Company of New York fought for bottler's rights and led the company through a period of sharp growth, died Monday at his home in Fenwick, Conn., near Old Saybrook. He was 71. The cause was pulmonary
 Luis A. Ferré, a dominant force in the politics, economy and culture of Puerto Rico for much of the last century and a tireless proponent of statehood, died yesterday in San Juan. He was 99. Mr. Ferré (pronounced fay-RAY) served one term as governor of Puerto Rico from 1969 throug
 CHESTON--George M. The Trustees and staff of the American Federation of Arts are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend and longtime Trustee. His dignity, generosity, and wise counsel will be greatly missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Peggy and family. Hannelore 
 COSTELLO -- Timothy W. Adelphi University mourns the passing of our former President Timothy W. Costello. For 13 years he served with distinction as the University's sixth President, sharing his knowlege and commitment to educational excellence with the Adelphi community. Under his leadersh
 DURFEE--Carder Hazard, 87, prominent and well known artist, survived by Charles F. Hickey of Tiverton, RI and NYC, his sister Constance St. John of Providence, his nieces, Julia Ballerini of New York, Anne Aldrich of Florida and Jane Aldrich of Montana, five great nieces and nephews, four g
 FLINK--Lawrence J. On October 19, 2003 at age 69. Lawrence was born in Joliet, IL. He served as a Lieutenant in the Navy and was also an English and Debate teacher at the Naval Academy. He received his Masters Degree from Case Western Reserve. Lawrence worked as an advertising executive and
 GOLDBERG--William. The entire Yeshiva University/ Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary family is deeply grieved by the passing of our cherished member of the Yeshiva College Board of Directors who was a YU Guardian and RIETS Fellow with Lili, his beloved wife and partner in mitzvot. He
 GRAY--Gordon L., III (''Larry'', also known affectionately as ''Groovy''). Resident of St. Barthelemy, French West Indies, died in Charleston, South Carolina on October 13, 2003. Predeceased by his mother, Louise Twogood Gray, and survived by his father, Gordon L. Gray, Jr., his sisters, Sh
 GREENWALD--Raymond J. On October 18, 2003 at age 81. Ray left a beloved wife, Pearl, nephew James Kaye and his wife Meryl, his adored ''grandchildren'' Marissa, Mathew and Sarah Kaye, and loving cousins. Son of the late Samuel and Anne Greenwald, brother of the late Muriel Kaye. A life long
 GRILL--Fred. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our member, Fred Grill. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his beloved wife, Barbara and their children, Peter Grill and Mary Ellen Lawrence, and Roseanna and Scott Familant and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior 
 HOCHBERG--Irwin. On Tuesday, October 21, 2003 at the age of 73. Survived by his loving family, wife Ilene, children Carolyn, Steven and Gail, and Seth and Lindy, sister Sandra Lewen, grandchildren Hayleigh, Alex, Rachel and Daniel. Services Thursday, October 23 at 12:45PM at ''The Riverside
 ISENBERG--Morris, MD, of Forest Hills, NY on October 19, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Frieda (Epstein) for 56 years. Devoted father of Edward, Elliott and Howard. Loving grandfather of Karen Clements and Paula Zuckerman. Great-grandfather of Lauren and Brian Clements and Emma Zuckerman
 JORDAN--Vance. The Board of Directors and Shareholders of 1220 Park Avenue Corporation mourn the loss of their fellow Director and neighbor. A longstanding memeber of the Board, his wise counsel will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family.       
 POLSKY--Howard W. The Faculty, Advisory Council, alumni, staff and students of the Columbia University School of Social Work note with sorrow the untimely death of Professor Howard W. Polsky on October 20 at St. Luke's Hospital in NYC. A member of the School's faculty since 1961, he receive
 SIMON--Peter E. was born on September 23, 1926 in Passaic, NJ. He attended Passaic High School where he was a star player for the school's basketball team. He attended the University of Nevada Las Vegas as well as the Naval Academy. His business career started in Passaic where he and his fa
 WEINER--Renee. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our member, Scott Weiner. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 WELDON--Henry H. At age 98. On October 20, 2003. Resident of Amagansett, N.Y. Beloved husband of June deH. Weldon. Loving father of Jill Spalding, and James R. Weldon and his wife Diane M. Weldon. Dear grandfather of Seth and Matthew Spalding. Interment private. A memorial service to be ann
 Elliott Smith, whose songs of despair and self-doubt made him a luminary of independent rock and earned him an Academy Award nomination, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 34. His body was found by his girlfriend at their home in the Silver Lake section of the city, with a singl
 Jack Elam, whose leer, bulging eye and precise acting skills transformed him from an accountant into one of the movies' most identifiable villains, died on Monday at his home in Ashland, Ore. Most published sources list him as 86. A friend in Ashland, Al Hassan, told The Associated 
 BAILEY--Lloyd Lee. Funeral services for the award-winning designer and author Lee Bailey, 76, of New York City, will be at 2 P.M. Saturday, October 25, in the chapel of Hixson-Ducote Funeral Home, 302 St. John Street, in his native Bunkie, LA. Visitation will begin at 1 P.M. and burial will
 BRAFF--Lewis. On October 22, 2003. Beloved husband of Ann. Adored father of Shelly and George, Jonathan and Lynn, and Michael and Gladys. Most cherished and devoted grandfather. Services Thursday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. BRAFF--Lewis. Congrega
 GOLDBERG--William. Joyfully explaining the love for his trade, a righteous man said diamonds were smiles of G'd. Therefore with devotion he always made his diamonds the prettiest of all, extracting as much light and sparkle as they could possibly give. He was bringing them to life. He, hims
 GRAVES--John C., 65, died of heart failure on October 13. Graduated from Buckley, Collegiate and Princeton University and received a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Princeton. Taught philosophy at M.I.T. Became a psychotherapist in Boston and Ft. Lauderdale. Survived by a sister, Emily Graves Jone
 HOCHBERG--Irwin. On Tuesday, October 21, 2003 at the age of 73. Survived by his loving family, wife Ilene, children Carolyn, Steven and Gail, and Seth and Lindy, sister Sandra Lewen, grandchildren Hayleigh, Alex, Rachel and Daniel. Services Thursday, October 23 at 12:45PM at ''The Riverside
 JAFFE--Max. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck. Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 MILLARD--Charles E.F. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Charles E.F. Millard, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian  
 PERL--Josef. At the age of 90. Beloved husband of Sabina. Loving pappa of Mary and Ralph Gutt and Berndt and Gail Perl. Adoring opa to Michele, Jeffrey, Steven, Spencer, Sandra and Michael. Funeral Services in Israel. PERL--Josef. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Josef Perl
 POLSKY--Howard W. All of Elem/Youth in Distress in Israel, staff, Board of Directors, professionals, colleagues, students, and friends in both Israel and America are deeply saddened by the sudden loss of Howard Polsky. Many of us have known and loved Howard since the beginning of Elem in 19
 RICE--Rev. Patrick J., of the Order of Saint Augustine, age 84 died peacefully on Tuesday, October 21, 2003 at St. Joseph's Friary, Villanova, PA. Born in NYC, the son of Patrick Rice and Catherine Callan. He attended school in NYC and graduated from Manhattan College in 1941 with a degree 
 SCHUYLER--Irving M. Age 94. On Tuesday, October 21, 2003. Devoted husband of 58 years of the late Pearl Bressler. Adoring father of Harvey Bressler Schuyler. Also surviving is a daughter Sandra Jaffee and a grandson Evan Jaffee. SCHUYLER--Irving M. Congregation Emanu-El of the City 
 SIEGEL--Jerome ''Jerry,'' of Lauderhill, FL and Woodstock, NY, died on Monday October 20. He was Executive Director of Union Temple of Brooklyn for many years and Adjunct Professor of Business Management of Baruch College. Mr. Siegel was Vice President with the North American Federation of 
 WELDON--Henry H. At age 98. On October 20, 2003. Resident of Amagansett, N.Y. Beloved husband of June deH. Weldon. Loving father of Jill Spalding, and James R. Weldon and his wife Diane M. Weldon. Dear grandfather of Seth and Matthew Spalding. Interment private. A memorial service to be ann
 ELAHI--Cyrus One With Love In His Heart Never Dies       
 Roy A. Anderson, who as chairman and chief executive of the Lockheed Corporation steadied and rebuilt the floundering company in the late 1970's and early 1980's, died on Saturday at his home in California. He was 82. Mr. Anderson had been in failing health for several years, said B
 Don Evans, a playwright of the African-American experience, about which he also taught at the College of New Jersey for 30 years, died on Oct. 16 at his home in Merchantville, N.J. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. A member of the Black Arts movement 
 FRIEDENTHAL -- Meyer ''Mike''. During a battle in France, American GI's lay wounded on a mine field. Dr. Meyer ''Mike'' Friedenthal, a young medical officer, volunteered to lead a rescue. One soldier in his squad lost a foot to a mine. But all returned alive, bringing home the wounded. Mike
 GOLDBERG--Bill. The members of the Diamond Dealers Club mourn the passing of Bill Goldberg, one of our industry's giants. A DDC member for nearly half a century, Mr. Goldberg was a President and Honorary President of our Club. A trusted colleague, and successful businessman, Bill's commitme
 HENRY--Jack D. Died suddenly at home on September 25. Mourned by his sister Patsy Sillyman, two nephews, three grand nieces, a grand nephew and many friends.       
 KELLY--James J. Age 68, formerly of New York, N.Y. and Cincinnati, Ohio; on Saturday, October 18, 2003. Received his law degree at NYU in 1964, retired in 1992 from Kroger Company, Cincinnati, as Senior Attorney. Survived by his wife Brighid O'Donnell Kelly; children Jim and Mary, six grand
 PUFFER--Ted. The Manhattan School of Music deeply mourns the passing of Ted Puffer, a distinguished member of the voice faculty since 1994. His intellect, energy and compassion have had an enormous impact on generations of singers who have performed on opera stages worldwide. As a colleague
 PURNELL -- Richard. We mourn the passing of Richard Purnell, husband of Marguerite Purnell, trustee of the Central Park Conservancy and co-founder of the Women's Committee. Mr. Purnell was a great friend of Central Park and a committed supporter of the Conservancy's work for over 20 years. 
 SPENCER--Bryan. Born Scituate, MA., 1949. Died New York City, October 19, 2003. A life-long artist and lover of art in all its forms. Graduated McGill University with a degree in Music Composition and held a Ph.D. in the school of courageous survival. Performer, poet, composer, lyricist, br
 STEIN--Dennis. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Dennis Stein on October 23, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held Sunday, October 26, at 11 AM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amst
 TICHNER--Alan R. Suddenly on Wednesday, October 22, 2003. My love, thank you for my happy life. Thank you for our wonderful children Jack (Michelle), Tony (Sherri), Fred (Sloan), Patti (Frank). Thank you for your sister Shirley and brother Morty and all their children. Thank you for Carly, 
 WIENER--Dr. Howard E. Of Sarasota, FL. Born October 30, 1918, formerly of Hewlett Neck NY, died at home on October 23, 2003. Beloved husband of Marilyn, adored father of Leslie, Rick and Mary, John and Karen, Patty and Dave. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Sam, Liz, Michael, Audrey and J
 CHAZEN--Frank. Everyone at Day & Meyer Murray & Young Corp is deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Frank Chazen. An invaluable employee for more than 15 years, Frank was a tireless worker who was both loyal to the Company and fair to everyone. Frank loved the moving
 CULLEN--John B. CEO of King Kullen Supermarkets son of the late Michael J. Cullen founder of America's first supermarket King Kullen on October 23, 2003 of Point Lookout and Montauk, Long Island. Beloved and devoted husband to Doris (nee Hudson) of 58 years. Loving father of Dana Conklin an
 MURTHA--Timothy M. Of Orlando, Fla. Formerly of Crestwood. On October 24, 2003. Devoted husband of Florence Jackman Murtha. Loving father of James and Timothy. Dearest son of the late Thomas and Anne Murtha. Dear brother of the late James, Thomas and John Murtha. Born in Harlem, raised in t
 PURNELL--Richard I. Of Locust Valley and Fishers Island, N.Y. On October 21, 2003, age 85. Beloved husband of Marguerite H., cherished father of Marguerite W. and Peter F. (Suzanne) and proud grandfather of Jimmy, Teddy, Bobby and Henry. Survived by many nieces, nephews and cousins. Visitat
 SCHWARTZBERG--Neil. On October 21, 2003 at the age of 61 our much loved Neil lost his heroic battle to overcome a prolonged illness. Beloved brother of Paul J. Sutton and Nancy Miller. Cherished uncle of Daniel and Lily Sutton. A gentle soul who had a great capacity to accept whatever life 
 STEGLITZ--Andrew C. Age 51. Of Stratford, CT. Died October 22, 2003. Born in Newark, N.J., he was the son of the late Jerome and Charlotte Sobo Steglitz. Survivors include his wife Kathy Schiller Steglitz, a daughter Samanatha, brothers Marc Steglitz and his wife Ilene, Stephen and his wife
 STEIN--Dennis, (70), July 3, 1933 to October 23, 2003. Beloved father of Pamela (Earl) Kluft & grandfather of Michelle, Julianne, & Alexander Kluft. Sister of Eleanor (Joel) Hinderstein. Uncle of David (Leslie) & Glenn Hinderstein. Inside this frequently prickly man was a golden heart and a
 ABELSON--Stuart R., 60, of Chicago, IL, died Wednesday October 22. Raised in Glencoe, IL, Stuart graduated from Harvard College in 1965 and Harvard Law in 1969. He practiced poverty law in El Paso, TX, and New York, NY, before returning to Chicago, where he worked in his family's business, 
 BILLET -- Marvin. Beloved husband, loving father, adoring grandfather. He will be deeply missed by his family and friends. Francine and Hal BILLET--Marvin. On October 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Francine. Loving father of Bradford and Jodi Billet and Alexandra and Perry Beaumont. D
 CONTY--Rene H., 89. Died September 30 from pneumonia, bladder cancer, in NYC. Beloved husband of Elsie for 61 years; father of Christopher of Arlington MA. Preceded in death by his father R.H., Sr. (1978) and mother Margaret McKeon (1987) and daughter Melissa Ann (1957). WW II Navy veteran;
 CULLEN--John B. CEO of King Kullen Supermarkets son of the late Michael J. Cullen founder of America's first supermarket King Kullen on October 23, 2003 of Point Lookout and Montauk, Long Island. Beloved and devoted husband to Doris (nee Hudson) of 58 years. Loving father of Dana Conklin an
 FEDERMAN--Allan ''Freddie'', age 73, of Manhattan, NY, passed away peacefully on October 18, 2003. Mr. Federman attended NYU and worked as a copywriter and interpreter for the Daily News. He was co-proprietor of Forlini's Bar and Phase II in Manhattan and retired from NICO Construction. He 
 GREENWALD--Raymond J. Our gratitude for his gracious and long time support of the two Park Avenue beautification programs. Ronald D. Spencer, Chairman Margaret Ternes, Executive Director The Fund for Park Avenue       
 LERNER -- Rabbi Israel. Passed away in his beloved Jerusalem. Respected Principal of the Hebrew Institute of Boro Park, Rabbi Lerner was exemplary in living a life devoted to the love of Torah, the people of Israel and the land of Israel. His life is an inspiration for his family and the Je
 MATTERN -- Theodore. On October 20, 2003. He leaves two children, Marc Fisher of New York City and Lynne Karen of Waccabuc, NY; seven grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. Services were private.       
 McDERMOTT--Jeffrey Fishel, passed away on Thursday, October 23, 2003, at The University Medical Center in Princeton, NJ. He was 37 years old. Born on July 28, 1966, in Port Chester, NY, Jeff was a graduate of Phillips Academy Andover (1984) and The College of William & Mary (1989). He was t
 STEIN--Dennis. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Dennis Stein on October 23, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held Sunday, October 26, at 11 AM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amst
 WELDON--Henry H. At age 98. On October 20, 2003. Resident of Amagansett, N.Y. Beloved husband of June deH. Weldon. Loving father of Jill Spalding, and James R. Weldon and his wife Diane M. Weldon. Dear grandfather of Seth and Matthew Spalding. Interment private. A memorial service to be ann
 WIENER--Dr. Howard E. Of Sarasota, FL. Born October 30, 1918, formerly of Hewlett Neck NY, died at home on October 23, 2003. Beloved husband of Marilyn, adored father of Leslie Waller, Rick and Mary Wiener, John and Karen Wiener, Patty and Dave Freeman. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Sa
 WOLFF--Herbert. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System and Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Foundation sadly mourn the untimely passing of Herbert Wolff, beloved father of our esteemed fellow Board Member, John Wolff. May his legacy act as a source of inspiration to al
 William Goldberg, a leader of Manhattan's diamond district known both for dealing in some of the biggest diamonds sold in modern times and for trying to lift his industry's historic veil of secrecy, died Monday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was pancreatic cance
 Frank Richlan, a founder of the Manhattan-based architecture firm Beckhard Richlan Szerbaty & Associates, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Nutley, N.J. He was 61. The cause was cancer, the family said. His longtime partner and co-founder of the firm, Herbert Beckhard, died the next d
 Herbert Beckhard, who with Frank Richlan founded the New York architectural firm Beckhard Richlan Szerbaty & Associates, known as BRS+A, died on Sept. 11 at his home in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was complications of a fall, said John Arbuckle, an associate in the firm. Mr
 Former United States Representative James M. Hanley, a liberal Democrat who served eight terms in the House representing a district comprising Syracuse and upstate New York counties, died on Oct. 16 in Geddes, N.Y. He was 83. Mr. Hanley, who was a funeral director and owner of a fun
 John Hart Ely, a constitutional scholar of dazzling originality and wide influence, died on Saturday in Miami. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his wife, Gisela Cardonne Ely, said. Professor Ely, who had taught law at Harvard and Yale and had been dean of the Stanford Law Sc
 BENNIS--Leslie Jacob. 87 years old, died on October 23, 2003. Beloved husband of Florence and the late Marion Bennis. Devoted father of Robert and Judith and fatherin-law of Marion, Audrey and Beverly. Loving step-father of Stephen, Nancy and Karen. Cherished grandfather of Alyssa, Jonathan
 BULLOCK--George Davis. 54, of Bassett, VA, died October 24, 2003. A golf professional, 1976 Metropolitan PGA Assistans Champion and 1980 Metropolitan Open Champion. A graudate of Staunton Military Academy, he left Virginia to play on the Asian tour and became a teaching professional at Cent
 FRIED--David. Beloved husband of Selma. Devoted father of Judi, Robert, Norman and Scott. Dear father-in-law of Randi and Beth. Loving grandfather of Jonathan, Michelle, Leah, Joshua and Jacob. Dear friend. He will be missed by all. FRIED--David. The Congregation of Temple Beth-El o
 RICKERT -- Edwin Weimer. Age 89. Beloved husband of Ruth Alma Fulcher. Cherished father of Jean Adelia, Wendy Grace, Allen Edwin and grandfather of Michael. Born in Connersville, IN, June 17, 1914, son of Edwin and Grace (Weimer) Rickert. Ed Rickert was a member of the Class of 1936 of Colu
 ROSENBERG--Emanuel. On October 26, 2003 in his 86th year. Beloved husband for 52 years of Irene (Butler). Loving father of Suzanne Alexander, Larry Rosenberg and Lois Belmont. Dear grandfather of Fred and Christopher Belmont. Cherished brother of Pearl Lamberg, Ruth Russ and the late Louis 
 WOLFF--Herbert. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System and Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Foundation sadly mourn the untimely passing of Herbert Wolff, beloved father of our esteemed fellow Board Member, John Wolff. May his legacy act as a source of inspiration to al
 ZELENKO--Michael. Devoted husband of the late Hylda. Loving father of Norman and Florence, Benjamin and Barbara. Beloved grandfather of Brian, Laura, Carin and Daniel. Great-grandfather of Leslie, Jennifer, Sasha and Katya. We were blessed to have him in our lives for 99 rears. Service Mond
 Former Representative William C. Cramer, the first Republican congressman from Florida since Reconstruction, died on Oct. 18 in South Pasadena, Fla. He was 81 and lived in nearby St. Petersburg. The cause was complications of a recent heart attack, his family said. Mr. Crame
 Garrett Hardin, an ecologist and author who warned of the dangers of overpopulation and whose concept of the ''tragedy of the commons'' brought attention to the damage that innocent actions by individuals can inflict on the environment, died at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif., on Sept. 14
 AXELROD -- Peter Gilman. On October 26. Beloved husband of Sari Scheer, loving father to Eric and William, cherished son to Edith Axelrod and brother to Laurie Lowenberger. He passed away at the family home in East Hampton at the age of 57. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved
 BILLET--Marvin. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Marvin Billet, beloved father of Bradford Billet. We extend deepest condolences to Bradford and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 DUER--W. Richard. October 26, 2003 in his 82nd year. Devoted husband for 32 years to Lucille St. Peters. Loving father to Celeste Malott of Los Angeles, CA; Camille Greenwald of St. Louis, MO; Jeffrey Duer of Cleveland, OH; and Monica Pennington of Beaufort, SC. Beloved grandfather of eight
 FRIED--David. All of us were blessed to have David in our lives. He was a very special person. We were also blessed to have David as our friend. Our sympathies to Selma, all the children and grandchildren. Lila and Richard Holland       
 GREENBERG--Sol, 81. Died peacefully October 26. Devoted husband of Marilyn for 57 years. Loving father of Susan, Marshall, and Ronald and grandfather to Emily, David and Zachary. Sol was a tough, self-made businessman who took great pride in rising above his impoverished childhood. He adore
 HAHN--Jerome S., age 73 on October 25, 2003, founder and President of Regent Sheffield Ltd, New York and Chairman of Richardson Sheffield, England and Taiwan, manufactured and distributed cutlery and flatware around the world. Jerry's vision and innovative approach transformed an archaic ma
 ISRAEL--Paul. 65, died on Saturday, October 25, 2003. Incredibly beloved husband to Madeleine; father of Nancy and Erik; father-in-law of Victoria; grandfather of Daniel and Julia; son of David; brother of Stuart and Joanna; brother-in-law of Elsie, Marianne and Richard; son-inlaw of Sidney
 PERELMAN--Mark. We celebrate the long, vigorous, loving life of Mark Perelman, who died October 24, 2003 in Palm Beach, FL. His family and friends are grateful that he had the good fortune to marry Marjorie Raskin Perelman, whom he loved and treasured. Born 1909 in New Castle, PA to Jacob a
 PURNELL--Richard I. The Pilgrims of the United States are saddened by the death of their distinguished Executive Committee colleague. We convey our deepest sympathy to his family. Henry Luce III, President Eben W. Pyne, Treasurer L. Charles Windsor, Jr., Secy.       
 ROGOFF--Paul. Beloved husband of Ana Maria Rogoff, devoted father of Lori and Richard Rhodes, Cheryl and Amy Rogoff, Debralynn and Michael Camilleri, Melinda and Michael Green. Loving grandfather of Bryan, Brandon and Brooke. Dear brother of Leonore and Jerry Baer. Adored son of Harry Rogof
 ROSENBERG--Emanuel. On October 26, 2003 in his 86th year. Beloved husband for 52 years of Irene (Butler). Loving father of Suzanne Alexander, Larry Rosenberg and Lois Belmont. Dear grandfather of Fred and Christopher Belmont. Cherished brother of Pearl Lamberg, Ruth Russ and the late Louis 
 SHEPPS--Ben B. On 26 Oct 03 Born 9 April '22. 81 Years old. Beloved Husband of Roslyn for 53 special years; Loving and Caring Father to Howard who predeceased him in 1992, to Larry, Gerald, Ken & Julia; Dear Brother to Lily Levine; Adoring & Devoted Grandpa to Mariel, Hallie and Zachary. He
 TEMCHIN -- Jack. Beloved son of Mira Sommerstein Temchin and the late Michael Temchin, brother of Shelley Temchin, brother-inlaw of Tom Parker, uncle of Mark and Teddy Parker, cousin of Lea Kuchin Rabinowitz and Henry Temchin, died suddenly on Sunday October 26. Co-founder and producer of T
 WEINTRAUB--Morris ''Tiny''. Died peacefully in his sleep on October 25. Beloved husband for more than 60 years of Selma. Devoted father to Allen and Carol, Connee, Floyd and Joanne, Amy and El. Adored grandfather to Jennifer and Tom, Rebecca, Alexandra, Neal and Joelle, Heather and Jeff, Sc
 ZIMMERMAN -- Frederick Frothingham (Ted) on October 25, 2003. Born April 23, 1917 in NYC to Robert Weaver and Isabelle Frothingham Zimmerman. He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Barbara B. Zimmerman, his son Frederick F. Zimmerman Jr. (Barbara) of West Islip and daughter, Jill Z. Corbet
 Walter E. Washington, who in 1975 became the first elected mayor of Washington in more than a century, died yesterday at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 88. The great-grandson of a slave, Mr. Washington had earlier been appointed head of Washington's government by P
 Ernie Calverley, a basketball star at Rhode Island State who was remembered for a 62-foot game-tying shot in the 1946 National Invitation Tournament at Madison Square Garden, died Oct. 20 at a hospital in Providence, R.I. Calverley, who lived in Wakefield, R.I., was 79. The cause wa
 John J. Fay Jr., the New Jersey lawmaker who wrote legislation creating the post of ombudsman to monitor care of the elderly in institutions and then became the first to fill the job, died on Monday at his home in Metuchen, N.J. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, 
 ASH--Hiram Newton. Died Monday, October 20, at home in Colebrook, CT, after a long battle with cancer. He was 68. A memorial service will be held at the Church of Christ Congregational in Norfolk, CT, on November 8, 2003 at 3:00 P.M.       
 AXELROD -- Peter Gilman. On October 26. Beloved husband of Sari Scheer, loving father to Eric and William, cherished son to Edith Axelrod and brother to Laurie Lowenberger. He passed away at the family home in East Hampton at the age of 57. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved
 BALL--John H. Died in his 83rd year. Son of the late Hattie and Nathan Ball. Cherished husband of the late Alice W. Ball. Adored father of Joan B. Joffe and Jean Ball Scheinert, father-in-law of Dean and loving grandfather of Andrew and Michael. Services will be private. In lieu of flowers 
 BRAWER--Louis. Age 87. Of Hackensack, N.J. on October 27, 2003. Survived by his sons Charles, Andrew and Peter, grandchildren Jennifer, Russell, Marlena, Adam, Joshua and Zack. Services Friday, 10:30AM at Cedar Park Cemetery, Sanctuary of Abraham and Sarah Mausoleum, Paramus, N.J. For infor
 CALABRESI--Paul, 73, of Barrington, RI, died peacefully on October 25, 2003 after a courageous battle with cancer, the disease of which he cured so many. He was Professor of Medicine and Chairman Emeritus of the Brown University Department of Medicine and the First Chairman of the National 
 FUHR--Abraham. Suddenly on October 27, 2003, of Long Beach and Newburgh, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Sheila. Loving father of Edward and Lois, Randi and Paul. Devoted brother and uncle. Adoring grandfather of Reid, Spencer, Sarah and Benjamin. Cherished friend of Janine. He was a gentl
 HAHN--Jerry. Boca Raton Synagogue on the Hahn Judaic Campus mourns the loss of our esteemed member Jerry Hahn. Noted philanthropist, loving friend and author, who touched the lives of all he encountered. May his wife Lynn, sister June, sons Jonathan, Ari, Steven and their families be comfor
 MINKOWSKY -- Raymond, M.D. Of White Plains, NY. Loving husband of Estelle and devoted brother of Alex and Bill. A compassionate physician who trained at the Sorbonne in Paris then in his 40's. Survived by his stepsons, Ross and Henry Kazer. May he find peace.       
 ROGOFF--Paul. The partners, principals and staff of Marks Paneth & Shron, LLP mourn the passing of our partner Paul Rogoff. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Ana Maria and his sister Lee and to his children and grandchildren.       
 SCHWARTZ--Leo. Of Pearl River. Died October 9. He was born in New York to the late Minnie and Henry Schwartz. He was a New York City Fireman for over 20 years, then went to work for The New York Times. He worked at The Times for over 20 years until his retirement. He is survived by his wife
 SCOTT--George C., former Vice Chairman of Citibank, N.A. and Chairman of the Credit Committee, passed away at his home in Locust, New Jersey at the age of 95. He had a full and varied life, which he shared with his beloved wife of 64 years, Jane Chadbourne Scott. He was born in Brooklyn, Ne
 TEMCHIN -- Jack. Beloved son of Mira Sommerstein Temchin and the late Michael Temchin, brother of Shelley Temchin, brother-inlaw of Tom Parker, uncle of Mark and Teddy Parker, cousin of Lea Kutchin Rabinowitz and Henry Temchin, died suddenly on Sunday October 26. Co-founder and producer of 
 WASHINGTON -- Walter E. The NYC Housing Authority mourns the passing of Walter E. Washington. He was the tenth Chairman of NYCHA, the nation's largest public housing authority, from 1966-1967 and the first African-American to serve in that capacity. He was a great pioneer in urban social pr
 WEINTRAUB -- Morris. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester notes with deep sadness the death of our former trustee, Morris ''Tiny'' Weintraub, husband of our esteemed friend Selma, and grandfather of alumni Neil and Scott Kaufman, Heather Stein, Jennifer, Rebecca and Lexie Weintraub. 
 PINE--Arthur (Artie), October 26, 2000. Our friendship began in 1946. We loved him and miss him more and more. Leonard Wurzel       
 Franco Corelli, the Italian tenor whose powerhouse voice, charismatic presence and movie-star good looks earned him the adoration of opera fans from the 1950's until his retirement in 1976, died yesterday in Milan. He was 82 and lived in Milan. He had been suffering from heart probl
 Jack Meador, a Texas hardware salesman who became a central figure in a scheme to sell medieval art treasures stolen from a German cathedral in World War II, died on May 25 in Sherman, Tex., unnoticed by the art world he had tried to deceive. He was 83. Mr. Meador's death was follow
 ARMINGTON -- Nicholas Meister. Nicholas Meister Armington, a maker of documentary films, died October 18, 2003 while scuba diving in the waters off Anacapa Island, California. His death was an accident. He had turned 41 on October 15th, the previous Wednesday. Born in New York City, Mr. Arm
 CALABRESI--Paul, 73, of Barrington, RI, died peacefully on October 25, 2003 after a courageous battle with cancer, the disease of which he cured so many. He was Professor of Medicine and Chairman Emeritus of the Brown University Department of Medicine and the First Chairman of the National 
 CORELLI--Franco. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the passing of one of the twentieth century's greatest tenors, Franco Corelli. From the time of his Met debut in 1961, he became a favorite of New York audiences. Although he began his career in Italy, the Met became his home theater, an
 DAUPLAISE--Norman. The winners' circle was made for Norman. In racing, business and life, he always played to win. His true success and lasting legacy is his family and friends. He will be missed. Gerard, Susan and Julia Heymann       
 DRAPER--William F. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, William F. Draper and send condolences to his family.       
 GOODMAN -- Arthur. Suc cumbed to lymphoma on Monday, October 27, 2003. His loss is sustained by his second wife Patricia Clancy, his children Judith Finn, Howard Goodman and Sally Goodman-Schwartz; grandchildren Zachary, Katie, Aaron, Michael, Rebecca, Rachel and Lucy. Born on February 14, 
 PRUFETA--Raymond A. Of East Northport, LI on October 28, 2003. Beloved husband of Maureen and loving father of John Prufeta and his wife, Patricia, Robert Prufeta and his wife, Christine, cherished grandfather of Anthony, John, Tara and Michael, dear brother of Jennie Prufeta, Vera Hayden a
 RADER--Gilbert. The Board of Directors of Associated Health Foundation mourn the loss of our esteemed Corporate Secretary. He was a past Grand Chancellor of the Knights of Pythias and current Supreme Representative, also serving as Secretary of The Pythian Camp. His energy and wisdom will b
 SCHENKER--Paul. Died October 28 in Delray Beach, FL at age 71. Beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather of nine. Attended Trinity College and Brooklyn Law School. Served as an officer in the U.S. Air Force. His memory will live on in our hearts. Memorial service Sunday, November 2nd
 YUSKA--Henry. November 7, 1914 to October 25, 2003. Professor Henry B. Yuska died October 25, 2003 after a prolonged illness. For the past two years he has resided at Attic Angel Place. In his 89 years Henry lived a full and happy life. He began his career as an organic polymer chemist and 
 Bill Sargent, a Hollywood showman whose highly promoted videotaped events were among the first closed-circuit theatrical specials and pay-per-view television showings, died on Oct. 19 in Caddo, Okla., where he was born and later lived in retirement. He was 76. The cause was a heart 
 George C. Scott Jr., a former vice chairman of Citibank who served as its top credit policy executive in the late 1960's and early 1970's, died Monday at his home in Locust, N.J., according to Nancy Crabbe, his niece. He was 95. Mr. Scott went to work at Citibank in 1929 as a messen
 Harry Clement Stubbs, whose rigorously worked out stories, published under the name Hal Clement, accentuated the science in science fiction, died on Wednesday in Milton, Mass. He was 81. Mr. Stubbs, who held degrees in astronomy, chemistry and education, had a dual career teaching h
 CORELLI -- Franco. The Board of the Richard Tucker Music Foundation and the Tucker family deeply mourn the passing of the great Franco Corelli, a member of the Foundation's Board of Artists. He was a magnificent singer and beloved colleague and friend of Richard Tucker's and his legacy will
 GRAUBARD--Seymour. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Seymour Graubard, ADL Honorary National Chairman. Seymour, who became involved with the League in 1936, served as ADL National Chairman from 1970 through 1976. He dedicated his life to the welfare of the Jewish people and
 RADER--Gilbert. The Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of NY, notes with great sorrow the passing of Supreme Representative Sir Gilbert Rader. Gilbert served with distinction as a Grand Chancellor and Supreme Representative. He held various offices in Pythian Camp and was Chairman of countless 
 KORN--Jack. 6/18/10-10/31/94. Forever remembered and loved by his family.       
