 Tex BenekeTex Beneke, the tenor saxophone player and vocalist with the Glenn Miller Orchestra who sang one of its most famous hits, ''Chattanooga Choo Choo,'' and led the band after Miller's plane disappeared in World War II, died on Tuesday at a convalescent home in Costa Mesa, Calif. He w
 Thomas J. Skutt, a retired chairman of the Mutual of Omaha Companies, died on Monday at Methodist Hospital in Omaha. He was 69 and lived in Omaha. He suffered a cerebral hemorrhage, said Jim Nolan, a spokesman for Mutual of Omaha, the big insurance company. Mr. Skutt, who jo
 Time, which Tito Puente could make throb, pulsate, swivel, shake and finally, in the pounding rhythms of mambo, cross over from El Barrio in Harlem to the Palladium to the airwaves of America, caught up with the legendary band leader and percussionist late Wednesday night, when he died at t
 Donald F. Ephlin, the senior official of the United Automobile Workers union who negotiated the pioneering labor agreement that created the Saturn division of General Motors, died yesterday at his home in Dearborn Heights, Mich., a Detroit suburb. He was 74. One of Mr. Ephlin's sons
 Horace Busby Jr., a former White House aide and longtime associate of former President Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Santa Monica. The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Scott. Mr. Busby, a fellow 
 Oleg Yefremov, one of Russia's most revered actors and directors, heir to Konstantin Stanislavsky and chief of the  Moscow Art Theater for 30 years, died on May 24. He was 72. The cause was lung disease, newspapers here reported. The Moscow Art Theater was founded by Stanisl
 Robert M. Fomon, who ran the E. F. Hutton & Company brokerage firm during its heyday and through the scandal that led to its takeover, died Wednesday at a hospital near his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75. Mr. Fomon, who retired as Hutton's chairman in 1987 after 35 years with th
 Donald W. Davies, who proposed a method for transmitting data that made the Internet possible, died Sunday at a hospice in Esher, England. He was 75 and had been suffering from cancer, according to a spokesman for the British National Physical Laboratory. Mr. Davies was a computer s
 Irving Rudd, a Runyonesque character who used wit and gimmickry to promote the Brooklyn Dodgers, Yonkers Raceway, Nathan's Famous and boxers like Muhammad Ali and Sugar Ray Leonard, died on Friday. He was 82. Mr. Rudd, a short, fast-talking raconteur, wore a tie clasp that was a 195
 John Coolidge, the son of President Calvin Coolidge and the oldest living offspring of an American president, died on Wednesday in Lebanon, N.H. He was 93. John Coolidge was a man of few words, like his father, and spent most of his working life in private industry, including establ
 Joseph A. Bailey, a Harlem lawyer and former assistant attorney general for New York State who challenged Adam Clayton Powell Jr. for his Congressional seat, died May 17 at North General Hospital in Harlem. He was 95 and lived in Washington Heights. A lifelong Republican, Mr. Bailey
 Merton H. Miller, a professor of finance who won the 1990 Nobel in economic science for helping develop theories that were used to evaluate the risks of individual investments, died yesterday at his home in Chicago. He was 77 and had been suffering from lymphoma, said Allan Friedman, a spok
 Robert C. Bassett, a former lawyer, labor negotiator and publisher who represented small-business interests on the councils of two presidential administrations, died on May 2 in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 89. Mr. Bassett was born in Sturgeon Bay, Wis., on March 2, 1911. He ea
 Svyatoslav N. Fyodorov, a pioneering eye surgeon who was one of the Soviet Union's first practicing capitalists and a politician who ran for president of Russia in 1996, died on Friday in a helicopter crash outside of Moscow. He was 72. Dr. Fyodorov was returning from a ceremony mar
 William E. Simon, who directed the nation's energy policy and served as treasury secretary in the dark economic days of the 1970's and then proved to have a golden touch as an investor in the boom days of the 1980's, died yesterday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 72 and 
 Merton H. Miller, a Nobel award winner in economics whose passionate belief in free markets helped him to develop what are now widely recognized guidelines for valuing corporations, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 77. He died of lymphoma, from which he had suffered s
 Milo A. Speriglio, a tireless private detective with an unquenchable thirst for publicity and an obsession with the death of Marilyn Monroe, died April 30 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 62. He died of lung cancer, his wife, Patricia, said. Mr. Speriglio, the director of 
 William E. Simon, who directed the nation's energy policy and was treasury secretary in the dark economic days of the 1970's and then proved to have a golden touch as an investor in the boom days of the 1980's, died on Saturday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 72 and live
 Ellis Clary, the archetype of the baseball lifer who wisecracked his way through more than half a century in the game as a player, manager, coach and one of its best-known scouts, died last Friday in Valdosta, Ga. He was 85. ''I believe Ellis could make a dog laugh,'' Spud Chandler,
 John I. Millis, a former case officer with the Central Intelligence Agency who for the last three years served as the top staff member of the House Intelligence Committee, committed suicide on Sunday, the police and Congressional officials said today. He was 47 and lived in Vienna, Va.     
 Leonard Baskin, a figurative sculptor and graphic artist known whose work ranged from a Holocaust memorial to a prizewinning children's book but dealt mostly with the human condition in angst-ridden terms, died on Saturday evening in Northampton, Mass. He was 77 and lived in Northampton.   
 Don Liddle, the New York Giants left-hander who threw the pitch that produced Willie Mays's sensational catch in deepest center field at the Polo Grounds in the 1954 World Series, died on Monday at his home in Mount Carmel, Ill. He was 75. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 Eugene M. Zuckert, the secretary of the Air Force during the Bay of Pigs invasion, the Cuban missile crisis and the deepening American involvement in Vietnam, died on Monday in Washington. He was 88 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. Mr. Zuckert's public service dated to 1937, the year h
 Blair Clark, an influential executive at CBS News, a former editor of the Nation and the campaign manager for Eugene J. McCarthy in his unsuccessful bid for the 1968 Democratic presidential nomination, died on Tuesday in Princeton, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Princeton and the Turtle Bay se
 C. D. Atkins, an inventor of frozen concentrated orange juice, which revolutionized the Florida citrus industry, died last Saturday at his home in Winter Haven, Fla. He was 86. Mr. Atkins, Edwin L. Moore and L. G. MacDowell, who died in July 1986, were the research team that the Flo
 Ellery J. Chun, who might not have exactly invented the Hawaiian shirt but who surely gave it a powerful push toward prominence, died in Honolulu on May 16. He was 91. Once there were no shirts in Hawaii, much less pink ones with ukuleles, but shocked missionaries hastened to introd
 Lt. Gen. Thomas W. Kelly, who was the voice and face of the Army for millions of Americans in daily news briefings on  the Persian Gulf war, died on Tuesday at his home in Clifton, Va. He was 67. The cause was liver cancer, said his daughter, Elizabeth O'Leary. As the direct
 Bill Thomas, an Academy Award-winning costume designer with more than 300 films to his credit, died May 30 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79. Mr. Thomas shared an Oscar with Valles for costume design on the film ''Spartacus,'' released in 1960. Mr. Thomas was responsibl
 Don Klosterman, who became one of professional football's most prominent executives, building teams in three leagues, after a skiing accident that ended his career as a quarterback and left his legs partly paralyzed, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 70. Kloster
 Jack Kroll, an editor, critic and writer for Newsweek magazine for more than 35 years, died yesterday in New York. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from colon cancer, said his wife, Joan Engels. In an age of journalistic specialization, Mr. Kroll
 Jeff MacNelly, who skewered presidents, politicians and the pompous in editorial cartoons that won him three Pulitzer Prizes, died yesterday in Baltimore. Mr. MacNelly, who was also the creator of the syndicated comic strip ''Shoe,'' lived in Flint Hill, Va. He was 52. He had been u
 Dr. Petter Lindstrom, a Swedish-born neurosurgeon respected in his field for his pioneering work in so-called bloodless brain surgery, died on May 24 at his home in Sonoma, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Lindstrom had the misfortune of being better known to the rest of the world as the husba
 George Segal, whose rough-surfaced casts of actual people brought a new, often eerie realism to postwar sculpture and made him one of the most quietly influential artists of his time, died yesterday at his home in South Brunswick, N.J. He was 75 years old and had lived in South Brunswick fo
 Jacob Lawrence, one of America's leading modern figurative painters and, from the beginning of his career in the 1930's, among the most impassioned visual chroniclers of the African-American experience, died yesterday at his home in Seattle after a long illness. He was 82. Mr. Lawre
 Hafez al-Assad, the air force officer who ruled Syria for three decades, transforming a Middle East backwater into an introverted regional power that endured as the center of unbending Arab hostility toward Israel, died yesterday in Damascus. He was 69. Mr. Assad, a survivor of seve
 Kermit Roosevelt, who was a member of the famous American political family but who made his contributions to the nation in the shadowy world of spy craft, died Thursday at a retirement community in Cockeysville, Md., near Baltimore. He was 84. Mr. Roosevelt's best-known exploit was 
 Dooley D. Shorty, who helped to train the fabled Navajo Code Talkers, a team of marines who used a code based on the Navajo language to befuddle the Japanese military in World War II, died on June 4 in Albuquerque. He was 88. Navajo, an Indian language that has no written form, was 
 Houshang Golshiri, one of Iran's leading secular writers and a prominent advocate of free speech and human rights in his homeland, died on June 5 in Tehran. He was 63 and lived in Tehran. The cause was meningitis, said a friend, Abbas Milani, who teaches at the College of Notre Dame
 Irving Goldstein, a communications executive who oversaw the privatization of government-owned satellites, died on May 26 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md., and New York. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his wife, Su
 Joseph DiGiorgio, a painter best known for monumental images of edenic American landscapes, died on May 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. Michael Walls, an art dealer and friend, said Mr. DiGiorgio died in his sleep. Mr. DiGiorgio was born in Brooklyn in 1930, the son 
 Lord MacLehose, a British diplomat and China scholar who was London's longest-serving governor of Hong Kong, from 1971 to 1982, died on May 27 in Ayrshire, Scotland. He was 82 and had run a sheep farm at Beoch outside Maybole since his retirement. His term as governor of Hong Kong s
 Petar T. Mladenov, who served for 18 years as foreign minister of Bulgaria under the Communist strongman Todor Zhivkov, then helped to oust him and became the country's president, died on May 31 in Sofia, the state news agency B.T.A. reported. He was 63. Mr. Mladenov underwent bypas
 Howard E. Johnson, who danced with the Duke Ellington Orchestra at the Cotton Club and the Apollo, was a fiercely committed Communist for 16 years and went on to become an educator and a social activist, died May 28 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 85. Towering in height and
 Ted Graber, an interior decorator popular with affluent West Coast social figures who was chosen by Nancy Reagan to redecorate the family quarters of the White House, died June 3 in Sonoma, Calif. He was 80. Jean Mathison, his longtime assistant, said the cause was complications fro
 Bert C. Moore, who was one of the Americans held hostage in the United States Embassy in Teheran, Iran, died on Thursday at his home in Homosassa, Fla. He was 65. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Moore was the administrative consul at the embassy when
 Frank Patterson, an Irish tenor whose light, pleasing voice, honest expression and endearing style generated a worldwide following and earned audiences with two presidents and a pope, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 61 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
 Irving Anker, who worked his way through the ranks of New York City's public schools to become chancellor in the mid-1970's, guiding the system through a chaotic period of widespread layoffs, labor unrest, corruption and struggles over integration, died yesterday at his home in Jamaica, Que
 Rajesh Pilot, a longtime member of Parliament and an independent-minded politician with a strong following among the peasants of northern India, died Sunday in a head-on automobile collision. He was 55. His death is a severe blow to the once-dominant Congress Party, which has few po
 Earl T. Shinhoster, a senior official of the N.A.A.C.P. who served as its interim leader in the mid-1990's, died on Sunday in a auto accident near Montgomery, Ala. He was 49 and lived in Decatur, Ga. The Alabama State Police said Mr. Shinhoster was the passenger in a car that blew a
 Irving Anker, the courtly former New York City schools chancellor who guided the system through the city's fiscal crisis and the turmoil over integration in the mid-1970's, died on Monday at his home in Jamaica, Queens. He was 88. A soft-spoken career educator who worked his way up 
 J. Watson Webb Jr., the former president and chairman of the Shelburne Museum in Vermont, whose family was among the country's pre-eminent art collectors, died on Saturday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 84 and had homes in Los Angeles and Shelburne. Born into the wealth and society 
 Frederic G. Cassidy, a lexicographer who followed his love of folk language into the nooks and crannies of Jamaica's creole and across the linguistic expanses of the United States, died yesterday in Madison, Wis. He was 92. A professor of English at the University of Wisconsin, Mr. 
 Frederic Dard, a hugely productive and successful French writer of detective novels and other works who was known for his raffish prose style, died on June 6 in Bonnefontaine, Switzerland, where he had lived since 1978. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, his wife told the Swis
 Robert J. Lurtsema, the inimitable host of ''Morning Pro Musica,'' the classical music program on public radio, an announcer equally revered and reviled for his resonant timbre and slow, drawling delivery, died on Monday. He was 68. He had been struggling with idiopathic pulmonary f
 Robert Trent Jones Sr., the golf architect who designed or remodeled more than 500 courses, and who once made a hole in one to justify his redesign of a hole, died on Wednesday night at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 93. Mr. Jones, who had been in poor health since having 
 David Heaps, whose work contributed to a decision by the the Ford Foundation to start a large-scale international human rights program, died on June 10 in Montclair, N.J. He was 84 and lived in Princeton, N.J. Mr. Heaps was the foundation's representative in Nigeria and then in Tuni
 Luis F. Baptista, a leading expert on bird song who had learned to recognize not just bird languages but also dialects and regional accents, died on Monday at his home in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 58. Dr. Baptista was tending to a wild barn owl that had moved into a shed on his prop
 Donald Kalish, a former chairman of the department of philosophy at the University of California at Los Angeles, but best known as an effective organizer of demonstrations against United States involvement in Vietnam, died June 8 in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 80.    
 Garrett Eckbo, a pioneer of modern landscape design and a leading practitioner of California landscape architecture, died on May 15 at his home in Oakland. He was 89. Through a broad scope of designing work, from camps for migrant farm workers to estate gardens for Hollywood grandee
 Dr. George Irving Bell, a biophysicist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory and a leader in its human genome studies, died on May 28 in Los Alamos, N.M., where he lived. He was 73. The cause was leukemia complications after surgery, his family said. Dr. Bell was a founder o
 George Marshall, a vigorous proponent of civil rights and a conservationist with a special passion for the Adirondack Mountains, died in Nyack, N.Y., on May 21. He was 96. Mr. Marshall's involvement in civil rights was inspired by his father, Louis Marshall, a co-founder of the Amer
 Judd Rose, a reporter and anchor for network and cable television news programs, died June 10 at his home in Manhattan. He was 45. The cause was cancer, CNN said. Mr. Rose appeared on the CNN program ''CNN NewsStand'' as co-anchor from 1998 until late 1999. From 1982
 Walter Poenisch, a retired cookie baker and marathon swimmer who observed his 65th birthday by becoming the first man to swim from Havana to the Florida Keys -- a feat not universally recognized -- died on June 6 at his home in suburban Columbus, Ohio. He was 86. On the night of Jul
 Frederick Noyes, a versatile New York architect who worked on design projects that included Lever House and a Park Avenue luggage store, died on June 10 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Noyes, known as Fred, was with the architectu
 Chief Justice Ismail Mahomed, a lifelong champion of the fight against white rule and the first nonwhite to preside over South Africa's highest common-law court, died here on Saturday night. He was 68. Justice Mahomed, had been in and out of the hospital since learning earlier this 
 Noboru Takeshita, a former prime minister, and one of the legendary kingmakers of postwar politics in Japan, died today in a Tokyo hospital after a long illness. He was 76. Mr. Takeshita (pronounced tah-kesh-tah), who was prime minister from 1987 to 1989, during the height of Japan'
 Dr. Jeffrey A. Willick, an assistant professor at Stanford University and an astrophysicist intrigued with cosmology and the motion of galaxies, was killed Sunday afternoon in Englewood, N.J., when a sports car crashed into a coffee shop and hit him, the authorities said. He was 40.        
 Dr. Lester Schwartz, a Manhattan psychoanalyst who taught at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute in Manhattan, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 72 and had homes on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was cancer, sai
 Fred Rosen, the founder of a long-established Manhattan public relations firm, died on Sunday at his home in Water Mill, N.Y. He was 84 and also had a home in Midtown Manhattan. He suffered from Shy-Drager syndrome, a neurological disorder, said his wife, Jane. Mr. Rosen was
 Grigory Gorin, the Russian playwright, humorist and screenwriter, died here on June 15. He was 60. The cause was a heart attack, said the Culture Ministry. Like Mikhail Bulgakov and Anton Chekhov, Mr. Gorin began his working life as a doctor. In 1966 he and Arkady Arkanov wr
 Jules Roy, a prolific and polemical French writer who sought inspiration for much of his work in the Algeria of his childhood and in his subsequent career as a French air force officer, died on June 15 at his home in the Burgundy town of Vezelay. He was 92. Mr. Roy was first recogni
 Richard Dufallo, a conductor best known for his energetic, probing performances of contemporary music, died last Friday at his home in Denton, Tex. He was 67. His wife, the pianist Pamela Mia Paul, said the cause was stomach cancer. Mr. Dufallo had a broad repertory that inc
 India's most prominent Christian leader, Alan de Lastic, the archbishop of Delhi, was killed on Tuesday night in a car crash in Poland, where he had been been praying at Cracow's shrine to the Black Madonna after a working visit to Rome. He was 70 years old. Archbishop de Lastic's d
 Dr. Elvin Abraham Kabat, a retired Columbia University microbiologist who contributed substantially to the field of immunology and the fundamental understanding of antibodies, died Friday at a nursing home in North Falmouth, Mass. Dr. Kabat, a former resident of Manhattan, was 85. H
 Alan Hovhaness, a prolific composer whose hundreds of orchestral, choral and chamber works found a ready audience among listeners who sought accessibility, directness and an open-hearted spirituality in modern music, died on Wednesday in Seattle. He was 89 and lived in Seattle. Few 
 F. Trowbridge vom Baur, a retired lawyer, author and lecturer who was the general counsel of the Department of the Navy from 1953 to 1960, died on Saturday at a convalescent home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 91 and most recently lived in Warrenton, Va. As the Navy's chief lawyer i
 Dr. Howard Rosen, a New York orthopedic surgeon who helped introduce the technique of mending broken bones with metal plates to American operating rooms, died on Sunday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his office said
 Enrico Cuccia, a famously reclusive Italian banker who was at the center of Italian finance for half a century, died today in Milan. He was 92. Mr. Cuccia, who at his death still kept an office at his bank, Mediobanca S.p.A., and held the title of honorary chairman, controlled impor
 Harry Usher, who as the right-hand man to Peter Ueberroth helped to make the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games by far the most successful financially, died Thursday in Secaucus, N.J. He was 61. His family said he apparently suffered a heart attack at the AmeriSuites in Secaucus, where 
 Michel Droit, a man of letters and a journalist who was a member of the Academie Francaise, died on Thursday in La Celle-Saint-Cloud, a suburb of Paris. He was 77. Mr. Droit's writing, which included more than 20 novels and other books during half a century, was rich as well as prol
 There was a time in the 1970's and the 80's, when Philippe Chatrier wore dual chapeaux as president of the International Tennis Federation and president of the French Tennis Federation, that all roads in tennis led through Gaul. That era officially ended Thursday when Mr. Chatrier, the man 
 Dr. Irving L. Lichtenstein, who transformed hernia surgery from an operation requiring hospitalization and long recuperation into an uncomplicated outpatient procedure, died June 11 at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 80. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. 
 Joshua Myron, one of the last of the camel-mounted Zionist brigade that fought with Vladimir Jabotinsky against Turkey in Palestine during World War I, died in Manhattan on June 8. He was 102. With the outbreak of World War I, Mr. Jabotinsky, then a Russian journalist, realized that
 Paul Griffin, a pianist and organist whose gospel-charged style made him one of New York City's top studio musicians, died on June 14 at his home in the Bronx. He was 62. The cause seemed to be a heart attack, said his wife, Mary Beth. Mr. Griffin also suffered from diabetes and was
 William A. Liebler, a specialist in sports and dance medicine whose clients included the New York Rangers hockey team, the American Ballet Theater, the New York City Ballet and the Martha Graham Dance Company, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 76. Dr. Liebler, who lived in 
 Bill Colleran, a film and television director whose work ranged from documentaries to musical variety shows, died on June 1 in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 77. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Born William Arthur Colleran in Edgerton, Wis., he began his career in th
 Peter McWilliams, a best-selling author of self-help books who fought for the medicinal use of marijuana, died June 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 50 and had AIDS and AIDS-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Mr. McWilliams caught the crest of the wave of the personal-computer rev
 Gerald J. Whitrow, a mathematician and philosopher who devoted much of his life to pondering the nature of time, died on June 2 in London. He was 87. He was fond of telling a story about the Russian poet Samuel Marshak visiting London before 1914. His English was imperfect, and he a
 Gen. Humberto Gordon, who commanded the Chilean secret police for seven years in Gen. Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, died on June 15 in his house near Santiago. He was 72. General Gordon had a heart attack while under house arrest, The Associated Press said. After having l
 Jerome Richardson, a saxophonist and flutist who was one of the most recorded musicians in the history of jazz and an original member of the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Orchestra, died on Friday at a hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Secaucus, N.J. Mr. Richardson was born 
 Louis Finkelstein, a painter, teacher and critic who was professor emeritus in the art department of Queens College, City University of New York, died last Tuesday at a Manhattan hospice. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Finkelstein was born in New York and studied at the Coope
 Lucien Laurin, who trained Secretariat, the 1973 Triple Crown winner who was perhaps the fastest thoroughbred that ever raced, died yesterday at a hospital in Miami. Laurin, who lived in Key Largo, Fla., was 88. He trained 36 stakes winners, he won an Eclipse Award as horse racing's
 Oliver DeGray Vanderbilt, a businessman and financier, died on Tuesday at Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. He was 85 and had lived in Hobe Sound, Fla., since 1983. Over the years, Mr. Vanderbilt was an executive of more than a dozen corporations, including Blair & Company, a 
 Bill Papas, an artist and political cartoonist whose work was syndicated worldwide, died on June 19 in an airplane accident in British Columbia, Canada. He was 73 and lived in Portland, Ore. Mr. Papas, who had been fishing with a group of friends, drowned when the float plane on whi
 Joseph Jerome Ruvane Jr., a pharmaceuticals executive who capped 50 years in the industry by helping turn Glaxo Inc. into America's fastest-growing major drug company, died last Wednesday at a hospital in Durham, N.C., where he lived. He was 75. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his 
 Dr. Keith Reemtsma, who in 1964 transplanted a kidney from a chimpanzee to a woman who then lived with it for nine months, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. In addition to performing cross-species transplants, known as xenotransplantation, Dr. Reemtsma was an exper
 Auxiliary Bishop Austin B. Vaughan, who found himself in a brief but public dispute over abortion with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo a decade ago, died on Sunday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. He was 72 and lived in Yonkers. Bishop Vaughan, who had been on sick leave for several years, 
 Hanna Batatu, an authority on the contemporary Arab world who was best known for his writings on Iraq and Syria, died on Saturday at his home in Litchfield County in northwestern Connecticut. He was 74. He had cancer, Georgetown University's Center for Contemporary Arab Studies said
 Larry Kelley, the Yale University end who won the Heisman Trophy in 1936, then found himself back in the public eye six months ago when he sold the statuette at auction for $328,100, died Tuesday at his home in Hightstown, N.J., of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. He was 85.       
 Charles A. MacGillivary, who won the Medal of Honor as an Army sergeant for destroying four German machine-gun nests in France on a one-man patrol in the Battle of the Bulge, died on Saturday at a hospital in Boston. Mr. MacGillivary, who lost his left arm while silencing the last of the en
 Jim Royer, who for 20 years oversaw efforts by the New York Jets to assess and sign players on other National Football League teams, died Tuesday. He was 69. The cause was colon cancer. Royer joined the Jets in 1975, in what was the midst of a decade of futility. The Jets di
 Pierre Pflimlin, a French politician who promoted Western Europe's postwar reconciliation and briefly, as prime minister, had to cope with the uprising in Algeria and the imperial temper of Charles de Gaulle, died Tuesday in Strasbourg. He was 93. Mr. Pflimlin had served as mayor of
 Tobin Rote, an outstanding quarterback for 16 years in three professional football leagues and the architect in 1957 of the Detroit Lions' last National Football League championship, died Tuesday at a hospital in Saginaw, Mich. He was 72. His wife, Julie, said he suffered a heart at
 Vittorio Gassman, a versatile film star who was also one of Italy's leading classical stage actors, died yesterday in his home in Rome. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said his agent, Franca Rodolfi. In a career that lasted more than 50 years, Mr. Gassman was expert
 William S. Blair, a former publisher of Harper's magazine and co-founder of Country Journal, died on June 21 at a retirement home in Peterborough, N.H. He was 82. It was at Harper's, in 1971, that Mr. Blair clashed with the younger editor in chief, Willie Morris, over declining circ
