 Dr. Morton M. Polokoff, a foot surgeon who broke new ground with his operating procedures and innovative appliances, died last Friday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 93 and formerly lived in Paterson, N.J., where he practiced for 55 years, until the mid-1990's. Dr. Polokoff made a name f
 James Ailinger, who played professional football when Red Grange was still a collegian and the forward pass was a novelty, died Tuesday at a hospital in Rochester. He was 99 and the oldest former National Football League player. In the autumn of 1924, while in his final year of dent
 James J. McManus Sr., the proprietor of the Peter McManus Café, a venerable family-owned bar in the Chelsea section of Manhattan that often doubled as a set for movies and television episodes, died on Monday in Philadelphia. He was 81 and had moved from Manhattan to Brigantine, N.J., not l
 ALSOP-Peter Schuyler. Died on March 29 at Calvary Hospital. He was 64 years old. A graduate of Princeton University, Peter also attended the NYU Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, and the NYU Business School. He was a member of The Union Club. In addition to his work as an independent inve
 ALTERMAN-Gerson C. Age 84, of West Palm Beach, FL, died on Thursday, March 29, 2001. Formerly of Scarsdale and Pound Ridge, NY. He was predeceased by his wife Stephanie Alterman, and is survived by his son Stephen A. Alterman, of Annandale, VA, and his daughter Judith L. Cuthbertson, of Ham
 BERGLUND-Richard Paul. Age 69. At his home in NYC, on March 30, 2001. He is survived by his children Lisa Berglund of New London, CT, and Paul Gordon Berlund of Shelton, CT; and by his sisters Mary Ellen Hekhuis of Thousand Oaks, CA, and Elsie Albright of Madison, WI. He was the Director of
 BRUNO-Howard. 86. Of Scarsdale, NY. Formerly of New Rochelle, NY. Died peacefully on Thursday, March 29th at his winter home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL after a long illness. Loving husband for 54 years to Margery (Doernberg) Bruno. Born June 4, 1914 in New York son of Edwin and Hettie (Ollen
 CARRINGTON-Ethelbert M., Jr., M.D. March 28, 2001. Devoted husband, father and grandfather. His commitment to medicine and community will be forever in our memory.       
 CHUSID-Joseph G., M.D. The Medical Board, Medical Staff, and Department of Neurology of Saint Vincents Catholic Medical Centers of New York-Manhattan are deeply saddened to hear of the death of Joseph G. Chusid, M.D., Founding Director and Director Emeritus of the Department of Neurology. H
 COYLE-Joseph A., 83. Of Sparkill, formerly of Bronxville on March 29, 2001. Beloved husand of the late Alice H. (Harney), loving brother of Ann Soroc of Bluffton, S.C. & Daniel J. Coyle of Dumont, NJ. Predeceased by brothers Frank, William and Thomas. Survived by many nieces and nephews. He
 EMMET-Henri. On March 28, in Columbus, Ohio. Formerly of New York City, he is survived by daughters, Daphne Denat, Claudia Williams, Diana Emmet; brother, Edouard Emmet, & six grandchildren. Funeral service at St. Thomas More Church, 65 East 89 Street, on Monday, April 2, at 10 AM.       
 FIELDING-Peter. Suddenly on March 29, 2001 in his 38th year. Beloved and devoted son of David and Marian. Brother of John, Bill, Jim and their wives. A funeral service is to be held in Toronto, Canada. A memorial service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel (1076 Madison Av
 FROST-Donald Schoeffel. On March 27 in Vero Beach FL. A resident of Southport, CT and Vero Beach, he was born in Rochester, NY. He was a graduate of NY Military Academy and the University of Rochester. Formerly with Young & Rubicam Advertising Agency, he became Vice President, Advertising D
 FUERST-Myron M. Of Rhinebeck, NY, died March 25, at his home. A graduate of Cornell University and former president of Fuerst Brothers, Inc. A memorial service will be held April 20, 12 PM, at Dapson-Chestney Funeral Home, 51 West Market St., Rhinebeck (845-876-6000). Memorials may be made 
 GIVEN-William P., M.D. Died March 30, 2001, at his home in NYC, after a prolonged illness. He is survived by his wife Erna Latall Given, his daughter Phyllis T. Weaver, his two sons Dr. William P. Given Jr., and Robert M. Given, and also by his five grandchildren. Services will be held at S
 GORDON-Cyrus H. Late of Brookline, MA, died March 30. Beloved husband of Constance (Wallace). Devoted father of Deborah Friedrich of Chicago, IL, Sarah & Henry Krakauer of Williamsburg, VA, Rachel & Robert Bernstein of Greenburg, NY, Noah & Ilene Gordon of Mansfield, MA, and Dan & Maureen G
 KURTZMAN-Sidney. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Flushing, NY, died on March 30. Husband of 47 years to Pearl, father to Fred, Audrey and Benita. Funeral on April 2, at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel in Delray Beach. We will miss him very much.       
 MILLER-Jerry, DPM. Dr. Jerry Miller of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Jamaica, NY. Died March 29, 2001 at the age of 82. The beloved husband for over sixty years of Jeanette. Father to Andrew and Richard. Father-in-law to Gail and Debbie and loving grandfather to Evan and Jody, Jarrod & Darren
 POTTER-Chandler Armstrong, 78, died March 29, 2001 at his home in Middlebury, VT. Survived by his wife Sally, three children, and four grandchildren. Services later.       
 REYNAL-Anthony. On March 9, 2001 at age 61. Funeral services at Church of the Epiphany, 1391 York Avenue, at East 74th Street, April 9th, at 4:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Groton School, Groton, MA. 01451-0991.       
 ROTHSCHILD-Karl. Passed away Thursday, March 29, 2001 in his 96th year. Beloved husband of the late Wally Rothschild; loved father of Herbert and Marie Rothschild, Bernette and Irwin Bernstein; adored grandfather and greatgrandfather of 14 grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren. He l
 SALEMAN-Irvin. Died on March 13, 2001 in Boynton Beach, FL. He is survived by his wife Elaine, his son Mark, his daughter Fran and four grandchildren.       
 SALTZMAN-Max. 0n February 26, 2001 in Los Angeles, California. Max's health had steadily declined for the last year and he died peacefully during the night. He is survived by his wife Barbara Fish, M.D., his son Mark and two grandchildren. Born on April 17th, 1917 in Brooklyn, NY, Max recei
 SCHOEN-Murray, 97. Of New York City, NY, passed away on March 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth for 59 beautiful years. Loving father of Ronni Fitzgerald and Robert, grandfather of Doreen, Sean and Jeremy, great-grandfather of Royden, father-in-law of Brian and Carol. Devoted brotherin-law 
 SLOTE-James (Jimmy). On March 30 in Tucson. Mourned by his mother, Ann K. Slote, his sisters Elizabeth and Nancy and their husbands, Ejlat Feuer and Michael Danko-Slote and by Janet K. and Josiah Schneider. Contributions in memory of Jimmy may be made to the American Cancer Society.       
 LISKIN-Elliot. April 5. On his birthday and everyday...the loving memories linger on. Children, Grandchildren & Joyce       
 CRAVEN-Richard. Of NYC, died on Wednesday, March 28, 2001, at the age of 72, at his home on Martha's Vineyard, after a long and heroic battle with ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease). He is survived by his adored and loving wife Carol; his three children Richard T. Craven, Fayetteville, NC, Priscill
 DREES-Maurice. Age 94, died March 23, 2001, in Atlantis, FL. Survived by his loving wife Mildred of Lake Worth, dear brother Sam Goldstein, and devoted niece Lisa. Interment held Portland, ME, March 26.       
 GIVEN-William P., M.D. Died March 30, 2001, at his home in NYC, after a prolonged illness. He is survived by his wife Erna Latall Given, his daughter Phyllis T. Weaver, his two sons Dr. William P. Given Jr., and Robert M. Given, and also by his five grandchildren. Services will be held at S
 GREENWALD-Irving. Of New York City and Coconut Creek, FL. Beloved husband of Maralyn. Father of Adrienne Youngstein and Wayne Greenwald. Grandfather of Margot and Eli and family to Steve Gruberg and Lily Kaplan. Died on March 30, 2001. He was a man whose warmth and love of life endeared him
 KLEIN-Louis M. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Thomas K. Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 MILLER-Jerry, DPM. Dr. Jerry Miller of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Jamaica, NY. Died March 29, 2001 at the age of 82. The beloved husband for over sixty years of Jeanette. Father to Andrew and Richard. Father-in-law to Gail and Debbie and loving grandfather to Evan and Jody, Jarrod & Darren
 MOROSS-Irving ''Jay''. 93, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Survived by his wife of 65 years, Jeanne, his brother Michael, his son Barry and his daughter-in-law Noreen of Hingham, MA, his son Jeffrey and daughter-in-law Jane of New Rochelle, NY, his grandchildren Gary and Beth, Gregory and Beth, 
 REID-Brian James. Loving son of Carol and the late Daniel. Brother of Daniel and his wife Linda, CarolAnn and the late Michael. Uncle of Daniel, Michael and Lisa. Fiance of Katherine Mary. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Monday and Tuesday, 2-4 and 6-
 SIPSER-I Philip. March 31, 2001, at age 82. Devoted husband of Martha. Loving father of Margaret, Jane, Henry, William and father-in-law of Leonard Leibowitz and Dean Kaplan. Loving brother of Sophie, Morris and Kenneth. Proud ''Papa'' of Max, Tovah and Emily. He was a tireless attorney ded
 Stanley H. Ruttenberg, a union organizer and consultant for more than 40 years who was an assistant secretary of labor in the Johnson administration, died on Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84. Drawn to the trade union movement as a young man, Mr. Ruttenberg later beca
 Jim Benton, a star receiver of the 1940's with the Rams and the Bears, who set a single-game National Football League record for pass-receiving yardage that stood for 40 years, died last Wednesday at his home in Pine Bluff, Ark. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 ALSOP-Peter Schuyler. The Blue Hill Troupe Ltd notes with sadness the death of Peter Alsop, a longtime member of the Troupe. He was President of the Troupe in our 50th Anniversary Year, 1973-1974, and also served as Treasurer and Board Member. We will miss him greatly. Mary K. Rutherfurd, P
 BRENNER-Seymour, Dr. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Seymour Brenner, and extends their sincerest sympathy to his wife Phyllis and his beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 CRAVEN-Richard. Of NYC, died on Wednesday, March 28, 2001, at the age of 72, at his home on Martha's Vineyard, after a long and heroic battle with ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease). He is survived by his adored and loving wife Carol; his three children Richard T. Craven, Fayetteville, NC, Priscill
 GIVEN-William P., M.D. Died March 30, 2001, at his home in NYC, after a prolonged illness. He is survived by his wife Erna Latall Given, his daughter Phyllis T. Weaver, his two sons Dr. William P. Given Jr., and Robert M. Given, and also by his five grandchildren. Services will be held at S
 GOLDSTEIN-Sy, 81. Passed away on Monday, April 2, 2001. Loving husband of Roslyn. Devoted father of Linda and Alan Stocknoff & Esther and Gedaliah Goldstein. Cherished grandfather to his ten grandchildren. Stepfather of Debbie and Steve Kropf and Barbara and John Heinekin and stepgrandfathe
 GOTTLIEB-Harry A. Age 93. We mourn the death of Harry A. Gottlieb who died in Florida on Sunday, April 1, 2001 where he had been retired for ten years. A founder of the firm in 1930, he practiced law in New York City for over 60 years. He was a unique person and attorney, and was loved and 
 GREENBERG-Frank M., 95. Of Rye Brook, New York. Died peacefully on April 1, 2001. Beloved father of Seena Parker & son-in-law, James, cherished husband of Natalie Blass Greenberg, devoted grandfather to Jonathan & Andrew Harris, & dear stepfather to Wendy Heimann, and Dean Blass. He was pre
 GREENSTEIN-Mark. With heartfelt sadness, the officers, trustees and staff of the Reform Pension Board mourn the loss of our friend and former Board member, Mark Greenstein. Mark was a dedicated member of the RPB Board and a consummate professional in every Board capacity in which he served.
 GURNEY-Peter. Of Darien, CT. Died on Sunday, April 1 at his home after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Susan; his three children, Christie Rawlings of Lakeville, Connecticut; Magie Gurney of Darien; Christopher Gurney of Clearwater, FL; five grandchildren; and his brother, Georg
 KING-Lawrence P. The entire NYU Law School community mourns the loss of a beloved colleague, Larry King. A preeminent scholar and leader of the Bankruptcy bar, he gave tirelessly of himself to better the law. Never one to compromise quality in any dimension, he also was a gifted and inspiri
 KLEIN-Louis M. Of Harrison, New York. On Saturday, March 31, 2001, at age 93. Louis's wife, Miriam Becker Klein with whom he was in love for sixty-four years, survives him. His children Honie Ann Peacock, Arthur C. Klein and his wife Patricia, Toby Jo Haynes and her husband Wilson, his gran
 LEVITT-Milton J. Of Scarsdale, NY, on March 30, 2001. Age 96. Husband of the late Ruth Michaels Levitt. Survived by his daughters Linda Glass, Ellen Zlig, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Milton was a retired attorney. He was a graduate of Columbia College and Law School. Funera
 LEWIS-John. John Lewis was a man of elegance, sophistication, impeccable taste and enormity of heart. He was a great original; a connoisseur of living. Above all, he was an honest man. This honesty enriched every beautiful note that he played or wrote. We mourn at his passing, but celebrate
 MAYER-Robert. Age 84. Of Scarsdale, New York. Cherished husband of the late Ann Louise Levison Mayer. Died April 1, 2001 after a courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his beloved sons Andrew and his wife Carolyn of Burlington, VT., and Geoffrey and his wife Rayne of Louisville, K
 MELZER-Asher O., 78 years. Died at home in Great Neck, NY April 1. Born in Germany, he fled to the US in 1936. For 22 years he served as director of Surprise Lake Camp. As the dean of American Jewish camping, he mentored hundreds of professionals and touched the lives of thousands of childr
 MILLER-Jerry, DPM. Dr. Jerry Miller of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Jamaica, NY. Died March 29, 2001 at the age of 82. The beloved husband for over sixty years of Jeanette. Father to Andrew and Richard. Father-in-law to Gail and Debbie and loving grandfather to Evan and Jody, Jarrod & Darren
 REYNAL-Anthony. On March 9, 2001 at age 61. Funeral services at Church of the Epiphany, 1391 York Avenue, at East 74th Street, April 9th, at 4:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Groton School, Groton, MA. 01451-0991.       
 TRUBEK-Max, MD. Well-known NY internist, died Saturday in Litchfield, CT. Dr. Trubek graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 1922 and from the University of Maryland School of Medicine in 1926. He completed his training at NY's Bellevue Hospital. For the next two years he was associated 
 Dr. Clifford G. Shull, who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1994 for developing a technique to probe the molecular structure of materials by bouncing neutrons off them, died on Saturday at Lawrence Memorial Hospital in Medford, Mass. A resident of Lexington, Mass., he was 85. Th
 Henry Brown, a chemist who helped make the American Dream a gleaming reality by finding new ways of keeping chromium plate bright and shiny, died on March 15 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 93. In the years just after World War II, Mr. Brown's discoveries made bathroom fixtu
 Nakamura Utaemon VI, a Kabuki star whose skill earned him a designation as one of Japan's ''living national treasures,'' died on Saturday at his home here. He was 84. Born Fujio Kawamura, Utaemon VI was the son of Nakamura Utaemon V and the sixth generation of a line of famous Kabuk
 ADELSOHN-Yale. It is with profound sorrow that Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center/Rutland Nursing Home, its Board of Trustees, Medical/Dental Staff and all personnel mourn the passing of Yale Adelsohn, our esteemed Board Member and Vice Chairman of Rutland Nursing Home. Sincere sympathies to 
 BOYLAN-Rev. John J., Parochial Vicar, Church of the Holy Child Jesus, Richmond Hill, NY. (Previous parishes served: Assumption, St. Mark, St. Vincent de Paul and Our Lady Help of Christians). Beloved son of the late John and Norma. Loving brother of Norma Keller. Adored uncle of Gerard F., 
 GAGLIOTTI-Arthur F. Of Scottsdale, AZ, passed away on March 30, 2001. He was born in Bronx, NY, on September 5, 1912. Retired Director of UNESCO's UN Office, and chief liaison officer to the US State Department. Also, retired Chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Long 
 GIBBONS-James. Age 84, of Rumson on March 31, 2001 in Red Bank. Born & raised in New York City. Mr. Gibbons was a partner at Price Waterhouse, New York City, working as a management consultant. He retired in 1977 after 26 years of service. Husband of Prudence H. Gibbons, father of 5 and gra
 GIVEN-William P., M.D. Died March 30, 2001, at his home in NYC, after a prolonged illness. He is survived by his wife Erna Latall Given, his daughter Phyllis T. Weaver, his two sons Dr. William P. Given Jr., and Robert M. Given, and also by his five grandchildren. Services will be held at S
 IMPERATORE-Andrew J. Of Great Neck, NY, on April 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Linda Brown Imperatore, and the late Elizabeth McGregor Imperatore, loving father of Richard, Scott, Elizabeth, Geoffrey, Barbara, Laurie, Andrew, and Christine. Stepfather of Beverly, Fred, and Cindy. Devoted gran
 KING-Lawrence P. Of Manhattan and Saltaire. Died on April 1, 2001 at age 72 after a courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his sister Dr. Anne King, longtime friend and wife, Dorothy, his loving children, Yvonne Braun of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., David J. Kaufman of Manhattan, & Deb
 LAMB-George Charles Jr. Died peacefully on April 3, 2001, at Duke University Medical Center with his family by his side. George was born in Middletown, OH, on June 9, 1925. A top tennis player in the Middletown area, he was Junior Tennis Champion while in high school. After high school he e
 LEWIS-John. The House of Steinway & Sons is profoundly saddened by the passing of its beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist John Lewis, on March 29 at the age of 80. As pianist, composer, arranger, and as the musical director of the famed Modern Jazz Quartet, Mr. Lewis was an artist of
 LLOYD-John D., 87. Of Binghamton formerly of New York City died Sunday evening, April 1, 2001 at Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital. He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Kate Rand Lloyd, Binghampton; two daughters and sonsin-law, Kate Angeline Traverse and Dr. Paul W. Traverse, Vestal, Ann Eli
 MATISOFF-Nathan L., DPM. Died peacefully at his home Monday, April 2. He was the beloved husband of the late Edna; devoted father of Louise; cherished brother to Lillian Rubenstein and the late Rhoda, Esther & Bea, caring uncle to numerous nieces and nephews and a friend to all. He was the 
 McKIERNAN-Rev. Raymond D. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the parochial vicar of Holy Name Church, 245 Prospect Park West, Brooklyn, on April 1. Reposing at Smith Funeral Home, 248 Prospect Park West, Wednesday April 4 from 2 to 5PM. Mass of Transferral on Wednesday April 4 a
 MIZRAHI-Aslan, Dr. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck. Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 WALDMAN-Edward. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Friday, March 30, 2001. He will be missed. Services were held Sunday, April 1, at Star of David Funeral Home, North Lauderdale, Florida. R. Paul Kashden, 
 WEINTRAUB - Joseph. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 WIENER-Jesse. Our beloved husband, father and grandfather. Died March 31, 2001 in New York City. Interred April 2, at Mount Ararat Cemetery. He conducted his life and death philosophically and with great dignity and grace. He is sorely missed. If desired, donations may be made to The Americ
 WILSON-Sheldon S. (Hack). Died on Sunday, April 1, 2001 at his home in Napa Valley, California, after a brief illness. Mr. Wilson was founder and co-proprietor of the Chimney Rock Winery located in the Stags Leap District of Napa Valley. He is survived by his wife, Stella, of Napa Valley, C
 ZISKIN-Howard. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck. Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President ZISKIN-Howard. Our hearts go out to Edie, Phil, Marian, and Diana on their untimely loss. May the
 Bill Kimpton, who was a pioneer in developing boutique hotels and founded the San Francisco-based chain that bears his name, died on Friday in Houston. He was 65. The cause was leukemia, his company said. Mr. Kimpton was the chairman of the Kimpton Hotel and Restaurant Group
 I. Philip Sipser, a political activist and labor lawyer who had more to do with the sound of music in New York than many an orchestra or singer, died on Saturday in Mount Sinai Hospital where he had been admitted a week earlier. He was 82 and had been suffering from pulmonary fibrosis, said
 Lord Hartwell, a lifelong newspaperman who as chairman and editor in chief of The Daily Telegraph for 33 years, was one of the last of the Fleet Street press barons, died on Tuesday in a hospital here. He was 89. Taking over the paper from his father in 1954 after having worked on f
 ALMY-Richard, Jr. Age 68. Of South Dartmouth, MA. on April 3, 2001, at home after a courageous struggle with prostate cancer. Beloved husband of Anne Taylor Almy. Devoted father of Richard T. Almy of Old Greenwich, CT., Heather L. Almy of Norwalk, CT. & Gretchen H. Almy of Middleboro, MA. A
 EPSTEIN-E. Jerry, 62, of New York City and Monterey, Massachusetts died on April 3, 2001. He is survived by his loving family, wife Laurily, son Gregory, daughter Deborah, daughter-in-law Naomi Baigell, son-in-law Lisandro Varela, and grandchildren Tali & Soyer Epstein. A memorial service w
 GIVEN-William P., M.D. Died March 30, 2001, at his home in NYC, after a prolonged illness. He is survived by his wife Erna Latall Given, his daughter Phyllis T. Weaver, his two sons Dr. William P. Given Jr., and Robert M. Given, and also by his five grandchildren. Services will be held at S
 HOFFMAN-Sam Z., DDS. Beloved husband of the late Freda. Loving father of Suzanne and Robert Bauer and Stephen and Roberta Hoffman. Cherished grandfather of Allison and Marie, Adam and Mary, Gayle, Tara, and greatgrandfather of Avi Seth Bauer. Funeral services will be Friday, 11:30, at ''Gut
 JAKUB-Eva. On April 4, 2001. A Holocaust survivor. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Nathan and his wife Hanna, and Jack and his wife Charlotte. Devoted grandmother of Richard, Stuart, Evan, Nikki, Heather and Steven. Dear sister of Semone Grossman. Services are today 11:45 A
 LESSER-Ralph M. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sadness the death of Ralph Lesser. Ralph was committed to bringing meaningful help to children in distress. He and his wife, Ilse, appreciated the work of our agency and their gen
 LEWIS-John. The House of Steinway & Sons is profoundly saddened by the passing of its beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist John Lewis, on March 29 at the age of 80. As pianist, composer, arranger, and as the musical director of the famed Modern Jazz Quartet, Mr. Lewis was an artist of
 ROSENBLUTH-Sol. Died April 4, 2001. Devoted and loving husband, father, grandfather and brother. A gentle and sweet disposition, graced with a keen sense of humor and wit and natural ability to see the good in everything. He will be missed by all who knew him. For information Yablokoff King
 SCHWARZ-Ralph J. Jr. Noted First Amendment Attorney in Manhattan died April 3, 2001. Ralph was born August 27, 1923 and lived in New Orleans, LA. where he attended the Numan School and Tulane University. Although he started Tulane Law School, Ralph left to serve on the battleship The U.S. M
 TRUBEK-Max, M.D. The Society of the Alumni of Bellevue Hospital mourns the passing of their esteemed member. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Estelle DeVito, M.D., President C.J. Li, M.D, Secretary       
 VALLE-Michael Benjamin. Born January 5, 1959, raised in Richmond Hill, Queens, died March 25, 2001, a resident of Los Angeles. Wordsmith, playwright, screenwriter, beloved son, brother and friend. He recently sold his blockbuster script, ''Sherlock Holmes and the Vengence of Dracula'' to Co
 WEINER-Nathan. On April 3, 2001. Devoted husband of Sylvia for 59 years. Beloved father of Reva and Marsha, father-in-law of Jim. Adored grandfather of Melissa and her husband Gary, and greatgrandfather of Jenna & Spencer. Loving brother of Sam and Jan. He will be missed very much by his fa
 WINTON-David H. Formerly of Little Falls, NJ and long-time resident of South Woodstock, VT died April 3, 2001 after a long battle with Alzheimers. Mr. Winton worked for Johnson & Higgins, then the world's largest, privately held insurance brokerage for 40 years, retiring as Senior Vice Pres
 LISKIN-Elliot. April 5. On his birthday and everyday...the loving memories linger on. Children, Grandchildren & Joyce       
 Trinh Cong Son, an antiwar singer and songwriter whose melancholy music stirred Vietnamese on both sides of the war, died on Sunday and was buried today at a Buddhist temple near Ho Chi Minh City. He was 62. His family said he had diabetes after years of periodic hospital visits. Re
 Carlos Ogden, who received the Medal of Honor for single-handedly destroying German gun positions in the battle for Cherbourg in World War II despite being shot through his helmet, died Monday at a hospital in  Palo Alto, Calif. Mr. Ogden was 83 and lived in San Jose, Calif. The cau
 John B. Oakes, who infused the opinion pages of The New York Times with his crisp reasoning, passionate convictions and liberal political views for more than 40 years, 15 of them as editor of the editorial page, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Man
 ALMY-Richard, Jr. Age 68. Of South Dartmouth, MA. on April 3, 2001, at home after a courageous struggle with prostate cancer. Beloved husband of Anne Taylor Almy. Devoted father of Richard T. Almy of Old Greenwich, CT., Heather L. Almy of Norwalk, CT. & Gretchen H. Almy of Middleboro, MA. A
 CHERNOW-Israel. On April 3, 2001 at age 85. Nobody could have matched the love, dedication, and encouragement that he lavished so generously on Ruth, his remarkable wife of 56 years, his sons Bart and Ron, their wives Peggy and Valerie, and granddaughter Shandee. He breathed life into our d
 GIVEN-William P., M.D. Died March 30, 2001, at his home in NYC, after a prolonged illness. He is survived by his wife Erna Latall Given, his daughter Phyllis T. Weaver, his two sons Dr. William P. Given Jr., and Robert M. Given, and also by his five grandchildren. Services will be held at S
 GOFFSTEIN-Herbert A. Died March 31, 2001. He was the founder of Mail Boxes Etc. Services were held in Fresno, CA. Memorial contributions may be made to Easter Seals of Central California, 1685 E St. #       
 GOODMAN-Albert. Of Hartsdale, New York. On April 5, 2001. Age 77. Survived by his loving wife Janet, his adoring children Mindy, Steffi and Scott, 2 grandchildren Maksim and Elias and one sister Doris Bonem. A graduate of New York University and served in the U.S. Army in World War II. Past
 MARCUS-Fred. On April 5th at age 90. Founder and Chairman, Fred Marcus Photography, Founding member Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel of Riverdale, & the Roth Center, Hanover, NH. A survivor of the Holocaust, throughout his life he triumphed over adversity through his deep faith and gener
 McNULTY-Edward C., D.M.D. With profound sorrow the faculty, students and staff of The New York University College of Dentistry record the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague, teacher and friend, Dr. Edward C. McNulty. A distinguished educator and clinician, Dr. McNulty served the NYU C
 MOAK-Arthur Allen. Died in his home in Kingston, New York, on Sunday, Mar. 25 after an extended illness. Originally from Brooklyn, New York, he was graduated from Cornell University, 1939 and is survived by his wife Blanche (Hertzfeld) whom he married in April of 1941, his daughter Patricia
 OAKES-John B. Dearly loved by his wife Margery and by his children Andra Nan, Alison Hartman, Cynthia Jane, John George Hartman & by his 7 grandchildren. Memorial service Temple EmanuEl, Monday, April 9th, 10:30AM. Contributions may be sent to the John B. Oakes Award for Distinguished Envir
 SAMUELS-Robert P. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Robert Samuels on Thursday, April 5, 2001. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Monday, April 9, 12 Noon at Gutterman's Chapel
 SHAFER-Dr. Donald. The Board of Directors and Medical Staff of Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital express deep sorrow at the passing of Donald Shafer, MD. Dr. Shafer, an esteemed member of our medical staff since 1948 and Surgeon Director Emeritus, served with great distinction as Chairma
 WISE-Thomas A. New York Medical College is saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague, Tom Wise-writer, editor and financial pundit. An active member of our Board of Trustees for fifteen years, Tom was elected honorary trustee in 1997 in recognition of his astute powers of observat
 IMPERATORE - Andrew. North Shore Child & Family Guidance Center honors the memory of Andrew Imperatore, Board Member and Past President of the Association from 1981 through 1983. Mr. Imperatore shepherded the Center as it grew and purchased its headquarters building in Roslyn Heights. He is
 Theodore Gottlieb, who as Brother Theodore performed apocalyptic one-man shows about life, death and broccoli in Greenwich Village nightclubs to dazzling and disturbing effect, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 94. Mr. Gottlieb, with his wild white hair shi
 Theodore McCarty, president of Gibson guitars in the 1950's and 60's and designer of iconic models revered by the likes of Carl Perkins and B B. King, died on Sunday at a retirement center in Twin Falls, Idaho. He was 91. Mr. McCarty earned an engineering degree and later worked for
 Edward Roth, Big Daddy to 60's teenagers and creator of curvaceously customized cars and delightfully repugnant cartoon characters, notably the slobbering Rat Fink, died on Wednesday in his studio in Manti, Utah. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack. For male baby boomers
 Francis Grasso, a pioneering club disc jockey credited with first mixing records together in the late 1960's by matching their rhythms, was found dead on March 23 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 52. The cause is unknown, pending results of an autopsy. Mr. Grasso was born in 
 George C. Lamb Jr., a former chairman and chief executive of United Parcel Service who guided the company through one of its largest and most significant growth periods, died on Tuesday at Duke University Medical Center. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said Elizabeth B. Lamb, his w
 Maurice M. Bayon, the co-founder and former chairman of Petroleum Helicopters Inc., an operator of commercial helicopters, died on March 22 at his home in New Orleans. He was 92. A native Louisianian, he graduated from Tulane University Law School and commanded a ground unit providi
 BERGER-Harold K., 87. On April 6. Raised in the Bronx, one of the generation of ''Depression Virtuosos'' with a career in public service. Division Chief, NYC Housing Authority, 25 years, overseeing services for thousands of poor families. Army Corps of Engineers, WW II, and later service in
 GOODMAN-Judd Gary, M.D. Age 49. Gynecologist who devoted his professional life to providing safe services to women, died in Fort Worth, TX on March 26, from complications due to cancer. Dr. Goodman graduated Harper College, Binghamton, New York in 1974. He studied at Baylor College of Medic
 JASPAN-Joseph, The Honorable. Congregation Sons of Israel, Woodmere, records with sorrow the passing of their long standing member and past president and extends its condolences to the bereaved family. Bruce Ginsburg, Rabbi Dr. Saul I. Teplitz, Rabbi Emeritus Brian C. Rappaport, President J
 KECK-John W. Age 71, scenic designer and painter, died peacefully on Tuesday, April 3. He is survived by his domestic partner, Jerry L. Marshall, and brothers James Keck of Andover, MA and Charles Keck of Andover, VT. Born in NYC, the son of sculptor Charles Keck, John enjoyed a successful 
 LEESER-Ralph M. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sadness the death of Ralph Leeser. Ralph was committed to bringing meaningful help to children in distress. He and his wife, Ilse, appreciated the work of our agency and their gen
 OAKES-John B. Dearly loved by his wife Margery and by his children Andra Nan, Alison Hartman, Cynthia Jane, John George Hartman & by his 7 grandchildren. Memorial service Temple EmanuEl, Monday, April 9th, 10:30AM. Contributions may be sent to the John B. Oakes Award for Distinguished Envir
 SAMUELS-Robert P. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Bob, who we loved and admired not only for his zest for life but his amazing capacity to always have so much time for others. Arnold and Nina Aronson SAMUELS-Robert. We will miss your spirit, enthusiasm for life, friendship and love. Yo
 Frederick Rath, a pioneer of historical conservation in a country devoted to replacement and redevelopment, died in his sleep on April 1 in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Cooperstown. Mr. Rath served from 1949 to 1956 as the director of the National Trust for Historic Pres
 ALBERT-Herbert C. Of Cranbury, NJ, and Sunrise, FL. Husband of Leatrice, father of Neil (Lilli), Mitchell, Stacey (Ron), grandfather to Jonathan and Alex. A true renaissance man who enjoyed life, his family, golf, bridge, poker, theater, music. Says Herb about his new state of being, ''Can'
 BLUE-Donald Joseph, 76. Passed away on March 29, 2001. Born on January 17, 1925, son of Walter and Edna Blue, he shared his laughter and learning with all. He is survived by his sons Adam and Ethan, his sister Alice Nadler, and many loving friends and family members. The memorial service fo
 BRENNER-Seymour Dr. December 15, 1925-April 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Phyllis, father of Helene & Marc, grandfather of Jason, Ethan, Ari, Maxmilian, Emily and brother of Pauline. Great friend, humanitarian and healer. BRENNER-Seymour, M.D. Died Sunday after a prolonged illness. He
 EGLI-Konrad. Died April 1, 2001. He will be greatly missed by loyal friends, patrons and employees of The Chalet Suisse.       
 ELLIOTT-Herbert, MD. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with sorrow the passing of Herbert Elliott, MD, distinguished and esteemed Chairman of Clinical Laboratories. Dr. Elliott was affiliated with Brookdale for 15 years. He will be sorely missed. Our condolences t
 ENGLISH-John. Members of the Board of Trustees and staff of the American Red Cross in Greater New York note with sadness the loss of John English, longtime Red Cross supporter. He was a devoted volunteer, serving over the course of the past decades on the American National Red Cross Investm
 EPSTEIN-Nathan. Our sincere sympathy to the family of our friend Nathan, to his wife Florence and his sons. We hope that they will find solace in his memory. Natalie Hoffman and Sons       
 GRAYSON-Arthur. 76, died at home in Gulf Stream, FL, on April 6, 2001. Loved by his wife Nancy and his two daughters Jill and Kathy, and his two grandsons Arty and and Billy Phillips. Arthur was a graduate of the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania and the Columbia Law School. He was
 LAPTOOK-Nathan Philip. Age 95, died April 6, 2001 in New Rochelle, NY. Beloved husband of Pauline. Loving father of Kenneth and Laura. Adored and adoring grandfather of Jennifer, Alexandra, Eve and Julia. Cherished father-in-law of Diana and Robert. A most wonderful man whom we all loved ve
 McINERNEY-James H. The former Vice President of National Distillers and Chemical Corporation and the President of National Distillers Products Company, died on April 6 at his home in Greenwich, CT. He was 86. He was predeceased by his wife of 57 years, Virginia Kelly McInerney. He is surviv
 NAGLE-Edward P. Was born in Manhattan, NY on February 5, 1913, but called Long Island his home for most of his life. He went to work in the mailrom of the NY Times in 1929. He then went on to work in Auditing where he supervised the Tabulating Department. He was a self-educated man, but ear
 OAKES-John B. Dearly loved by his wife Margery and by his children Andra Nan, Alison Hartman, Cynthia Jane, John George Hartman & by his 7 grandchildren. Memorial service Temple EmanuEl, Monday, April 9th, 10:30AM. Contributions may be sent to the John B. Oakes Award for Distinguished Envir
 SCHAPIRO-Dr. Ivor. Our beloved father and grandfather passed away March 30, 2001 in Capetown, South Africa. He will be sorely missed by his wife Dorothy, his children Ashley, Lesley and Suzanne, daughter-in-law Janet and grandchildren Daniel, Gina, Dustin, Jacqueline and Joshua.       
 SECUNDA-Louis, C.P.A. At rest in Palo Alto, CA. April 3, 2001. Beloved husband of 58 yrs to the Late Bernice Secunda. He leaves behind daughter Judy (Larry) William, son Al Secunda, 2 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren. A native and 92 year resident of New York City, he was an alumnus 
 SHAFER-Dr. Donald M. A noted vitreoretinal surgeon, educator, clinical scientist and leader in the field of ophthalmology, died on April 4, 2001 at the age of 89. He was a graduate of Columbia University Medical School and retired lieutenant colonel of the US Army Medical Corps. During his 
 WEINBAUM-Samuel. On April 6, 2001. Beloved husband of Florence. Loving father of Fredric and Barrie-Jane Aguirre. Dear father-in-law of Susannah & Carlos Aguirre. Cherished grandfather of Elissa and Carolina Aguirre and Kaitlin and Thomas Weinbaum. Service Monday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside
 Ronald Van Dunk, who led the Ramapough Mountain Indians in their continuing fight to win federal recognition as a tribe, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Suffern, N.Y. He was 68 and had lived in Hillburn, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Sheila. Mr. Van 
 Dr. Cyrus H. Gordon, a scholar of Near East culture and a leading expert on ancient languages, died on March 30 at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 92. Dr. Gordon's series of books on the ancient language known as Ugaritic was widely thought to have been his greatest scholarly ac
 ACKERMAN-Milton J. Died suddenly on April 7, at North Shore University Hospital. Beloved husband of Sue Ackerman. Devoted father of Carole A. Feuerman, Barbara Pat Ackerman and Richard Ackerman, and father-in-law of Ronald Cohen and Irene Ackerman. Cherished grandfather of Lauren Feuerman L
 BAGLANEAS-Reverend Theodore E. Formerly of New York, Rhode Island and Cape Cod, died Saturday. He was the husband of the late Mary (Joakim) Baglaneas. He is survived by a son John T. Baglaneas of Northboro, MA, and a daughter Anita Devlin of Centerville, MA, also a brother Spiros Baglaneas 
 GOLDSCHMIDT-Henry J. April 7, 2001. Beloved and loving husband of Beatrice. Father of Lawrence and Ellen. Father-in-law of Maya. Grandfather of Alix, Erica and Lisa. Brother of Edward and Charles. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Henry J. Goldschmidt Scholarship Fund, Columbia
 LAPTOOK-Nathan Philip. Age 95, died April 6, 2001, in New Rochelle, NY. Beloved husband of Pauline. Loving father of Kenneth and Laura. Adored and adoring grandfather of Jennifer, Alexandra, Eve and Julia. Cherished father-in-law of Diana and Robert. A most wonderful man whom we all loved v
 LUBIN-Bernard S. Of Longboat Key, FL, formerly of Harrison, NY, on April 6, 2001, at the age of 7,8 after a valiant battle with lymphoma. Survived by his wife of 56 years, the former Rita Klausner, a daughter Jane (Wayne Stouffer), sons Michael and James (Matthew Wise) and a brother Robert.
 McNULTY-Edward C., D.M.D. The Board of the William J. Gies Foundation for the Advancement of Dentistry wishes to express its condolences to the family of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Edward C. McNulty. His leadership, wisdom, and dedication to the profession of dentistry will be missed. Alla
 OAKES-John B. Clean Air Campaign mourns the loss of John Oakes. His unfailing integrity, courage and grace under fire will be sorely missed. His lucid columns inspired citizens fighting for a park along the Hudson River without environmentally damaging development in the waters of the river
 OSLER-Louis. 86, on April 6, 2001. Husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather one to whom life was never a bother, a lover of life no matter what it dealt, his abscence today and forever will be felt. Survived by his wife of 62-1/2 years Sylvia, his children, Miriam and Steven and Davi
 ROSE-Robert Alan. On Saturday, April 7, 2001, we lost Our Hero Robbie. Our family will mourn him deeply. Phyllis and Sy Rose, David and Alycia Rose, Diane and Jeffrey Chalal, Christopher, Samantha and Andrew Rose, Isaac, Aaron and Hannah Chalal. He fought the good fight. Services on Tuesday
 SAMUELS-Robert P. Born March 6, 1930, in Washington Heights, NY. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Laurie and Jeffrey, and Steven and Janet. Loving poppa of Randy, Brian, Matthew and Julie. You will be missed not just as a husband, father and grandfather. You will be missed as t
 SCHMIDT-Francis J. Of Manhasset, on April 7, 2001. Beloved husband of Patricia (McCabe). Loving father of Aidan. Cherished brother of Edward Schmidt and Vaughn Rinaldi. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, Monday, 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass Tuesday, 10
 STRAUCH-Joseph, D.D.S. On April 8, 2001. Longtime companion of Adeline Sherr. Father of Diana. Brother-in-law of Margaret. Also survived by his nephews and nieces. Inerment Tuesday, April 10, 11:30 AM, at Mt. Moriah Cemetery, Fairview, NJ.       
 WEINBAUM-Samuel. On April 6, 2001. Beloved husband of Florence. Loving father of Fredric and Barrie-Jane Aguirre. Dear father-in-law of Susannah & Carlos Aguirre. Cherished grandfather of Elissa and Carolina Aguirre and Kaitlin and Thomas Weinbaum. Service Monday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside
 COHEN-Irving S. 5/6/28-4/9/96 Fifth Year in Heaven. May the Lord lift up His countenance towards you and give you peace. We love and miss you more each day. Your wife, Mary, children, grandchildren.       
 Arthur Cantor, the gentleman impresario with a showman's flair whose life in the theater encompassed more than 40 years of shows on Broadway and beyond, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 81. A champion of the work of comic playwrights like Paddy Chayefsky and Herb Gardner, Mr. Can
 BERNARD-David A. , 55 years old. Of West Palm Beach, FL, died suddenly on Wednesday, April 4, 2001. Born in Toronto, Canada, he was the son of Seymour and Evelyn Bernard. He was educated at Cheshire Academy in Cheshire, CT and graduated from Teaneck High School in Teaneck, NJ. Mr. Bernard w
 CANTOR-Arthur. Beloved husband of the late Deborah, devoted father of David, Jacqueline and the late Michael, dear brother of Gloria Cantor and Mona Briss, died Sunday, April 8, after a long illness. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, at Noon, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st
 FETT-Warren C. A self-employed interior designer. Died Saturday, April 7, 2001 in Norwalk, CT. He is survived by two nephews Tim and Storer Driscoll and a longtime friend and business associate, Warren (Bud) Holt. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Wednesday at 10 A.M., in St.
 McNULTY-Edward C., DMD. With deepest sympathy the Fellows of the New York Academy of Dentistry mourn the sudden passing of Dr. Edward C. McNulty, a past president and esteemed colleague and dear friend of the Academy. Our sincere condolences to his family. His wisdom, guidance and dedicatio
 MELNICK-Gerald J. We at M. Melnick & Co., Inc. wish to express our deep sympatheis and sorrow to the family of Gerald Melnick: Eleanor, his devoted wife and lifecompanion; his children, Edith and Howard; their spouses, Scott and Jill; and his grandchildren, who were his prime delight. Gerry
 SAMUELS-Robert P. A heart is not judged by how much you love ...But by how much you are loved by others. Knowing him was an honor...remembering him an inspiration. Bruce Elliot Shillet       
 Willie Stargell, renowned for his prodigious home runs and revered by his teammates as a leader in a Hall of Fame career that spanned 21 seasons with the Pittsburgh Pirates, died of a stroke yesterday in Wilmington, N.C. He was 61. Stargell had a long history of high blood pressure 
 Gerald L. Brubaker, an American weapons expert and arms inspector for the United Nations Special Commission charged with finding and destroying Iraq's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, died of cancer yesterday in the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Alexandria. He was 60. Bet
 BOTTONE-Alphonse P. Passed away Sunday April 8, 2001. Age 73. Passed away after a short battle with cancer. Survived by his mother Catherine Bottone, age 96, and his sister Angela Evangelista, brother-in-law Sandy Evangelista, niece Susan Zwick and nephews John and Matthew Evangelista, and 
 BROGAN-Thomas J., Jr. President of Brogan Cadillac-Oldsmobile Company, Totowa, NJ. Died Monday, April 9, 2001, age 75. Lived in NYC & Southampton, New York. Until January, Mr. Brogan was an active member of a three generation Cadillac Oldsmobile family. His father, Thomas J. Brogan, Sr., be
 CANTOR-Arthur. The Board and Staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, are deeply saddened by the death of their friend, Arthur Cantor. As a Trustee of the Billy Rose Foundation, Arthur Cantor helped foster the growth of the Israel Museum for three
 COHEN-Seymour J. Rabbi, Ph.D., died at home on April 9, 2001 after a long illness. Beloved husband for 55 years of Naomi Greenberg Cohen. Loving father of Grace (Ira) Grossman, Marc (Laura Leon) Cohen & Dr. Leeber (Elizabeth Jacob) Cohen. Cherished grandfather of Dov and Ari Grossman, Miche
 FEIGELSON-Philip. Of Tenafly, NJ, born in Corona, Queens in 1925, passed away on April 9, 2001. From 1954 through 1998 he was Professor of Biochemistry in the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University. He is survived by Muriel Feigelson, his wife since 1947, daughter Janet F
 FRATER-Anthony. Beloved husband of Lea. Devoted father of Jonathan and Daniel. Loving son of Hal. He died too soon and will be greatly missed.       
 FRIBOURG-Michel. On April 10, 2001. Beloved husband of Mary Ann. Devoted son of the late Jules and Lucienne. Cherished father of Caroline, Charles, Nadine, Paul, and Robert. Dear brother of Marcelle and Renee and the late Jacqueline. Beloved father-in-law of Babeth, Celine, Effie, Jerry and
 KATZ-Kurt. Age 79 of Coconut Creek, FL., formerly of Washington Heights, New York City, died April 10, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth; loving father of Peter (Leah), Howard (Holly), and Ronald (Renee); cherished grandfather of Naomi, Jonathan, Kevin, & Benjamin. He was the President of Congr
 KLEYMAN-Gregory. Age 54, died on April 9, 2001. Devoted son of Lev and Esther. Loving father of Luba, grandfather of Richard and dear brother of Michael. He will always be in our hearts.       
 LAMBERT-Robin. Beloved wife of Tom, mother of David and his wife Miriam, daughter of Julia Bieler, daughter-in-law of Mary, sister-in-law of Elizabeth and Michael. Service on Wednesday, 12:30PM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, corner 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 McNULTY-Edward. The New York County Dental Society notes with sorrow the recent passing of Edward McNulty, DMD. His contributions to the profession and the Society were numerous. We will miss his participation and guidance. Our sympathies to the family. Donna Rumberger, President Robert Rai
 NACK-Saul H. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved husband of Frieda, father of Daniel. Mr. Nack was a lifelong communal leader and activist for Jewish causes in the United States and Israel. As President of B'nai Israel Jewish Centre, h
 REILLY-Dan. The Board of Managers, Owners and Staff of 923 Fifth Avenue Condominium are deeply saddened and offer their condolences to the family of Dan Reilly on his untimely passing. He was a faithful and warm member of our staff who made each of our days brighter and better. With deepest
 SHEA-Joseph, 76. Of Spring Lake Hts, NJ, formerly of NYC, on April 9, 2001. Mr. Shea was former owner and CEO of Harbor Hill Company in NYC. Predeceased by his brother Raymond. Beloved husband of Kathleen. Dear father of Joseph, Thomas, Frances, Daniel and Kathleen Munson; brother of John a
 STERN-Mitchell. The Manhattan School of Music mourns the death of Mitchell Stern, a respected and longtime member of the violin faculty as well as frequent coach of chamber music. From 1980 to 1990, he was first violinist of the American String Quartet, artists in residence at the school si
 Harry Secombe, a natural clown who brought deft acting, a seemingly uncontrollable falsetto giggle and a raspberry that sounded like a bulldozer hitting a whoopee cushion to his role as one of the stars of ''The Goon Show,'' the 1950's British radio program, died yesterday at a hospital in 
 Joseph Weintraub, who helped make the teaching of economics mandatory for high school students in New York State, died on April 2 in the Bronx. He was 79. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter, Meryl Hechtman, of East Meadow, N.Y. He had a 53-year teaching caree
 Michel Fribourg, a Belgian-born American who negotiated groundbreaking sales of wheat and rice to the Soviet Union in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Tuesday in New York.  He was 87. During his five decades as chairman and chief executive of the Continental Grain Company, he expanded
 FISHER-David. He filled his years with unconditional love for his family and an unmitigated and unbridled joy for life. Indeed, everyone of his 92 years was seen through the eyes of a mischievous, playful child-teaching us all to live life exuberantly and passionately. Survived lovingly by 
 FRIBOURG-Michel. P. Beloved husband of Mary Ann, father of Robert - Effie, Paul - Josebeth, Charles-Celine Fribourg, NadineJerrold Newman and Caroline-Jon Rosen. Grandfather of 13. Michel P. Fribourg passed away April 10. We love you and will miss you forever. In lieu of flowers, please mak
 KSINSKI-Heinz. On April 9, 2001. Beloved uncle of Vera Rausnitz and great uncle to Susi and Gerry Rausnitz. He will be greatly missed. Services were held on April 10, 2001.       
 LUSTGARTEN-Bennett P., MD. Beloved husband for 50 years of Alice. Devoted father of David, Diana (Sacks), Jonathan and Daniel, adoring grandfather of Eric, Benjamin and Madeline, brother of the late Elaine Benson. Born in Brooklyn, he graduated from Columbia University, and NYU School of Me
 MANN-Jerome. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Tuesday, April 10, 2001. He will be missed. Services will be held Thursday, April 12, at 11 AM At Gutterman'sWarheit Memorial Chapel, 7240 N. Federal Highway
 MOFFAT-Ronald Colin. Ron Moffat, died at home April 8th, after a brave fight with cancer. Ron is survived by his partner Mark Truesdell, his sister Nancy and his brother Roger. In lieu of flowers, send contributions in Ron's memory to the Colin S. Moffat Scholarship Fund at Springfield Coll
 NICHOLSON-William Jamieson. April 9th, 2001, at age 70, of heart failure while running in Fair Lawn, NJ. He was Professor Emeritus of Community Medicine at Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Working with Dr. Irving J. Selikoff, he did extensive statistical studies of the excessive rates of can
 SCHMIERER-Israel. It is with the deepest sense of loss for a highly recognized and devoted pediatrician that the Department of Pediatrics at Maimonides Medical Center acknowledges the passing of Israel Schmierer. Dr. Schmierer served as staff and consulting pediatrician and specialist in ne
 WAYLER-Irving. Of Ludlow, VT, 87, of Ludlow and a winter resident of Palm Beach, Florida died Tuesday in Rutland, Vermont. Born November 16, 1913 Brooklyn, New York, the son of Herman and Helen (Shepard) Wayler. A graduate of Thomas Jefferson HS, Brooklyn College and Yeshiva University. Emp
 WILLIAMS-William J. Of Vero Beach, FL, formerly of Bronxville, New York, at the age of 92. Graduate of Columbia College 1930, and Fordham University School of Law 1933. Served as Attorney with Securities and Exchange Commission. Was Vice President, Secretary, General Counsel and a Director 
 Raymond R. Patterson, a poet, writer and professor emeritus of English at City College of the City University of New York, died on April 5. He was 71. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Patterson was the author of ''26 Ways of Looking at a Black Man and Other 
 Robert P. Samuels, chief executive at Milton Samuels Advertising in New York, died on April 4 in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 71. The cause was lung cancer, said his son, Steven Samuels, of Westport, Conn. In 1965, Mr. Samuels took over Milton Samuels from his father, for whom th
 FEIGELSON-Philip, Ph.D. The faculty and staff of Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Philip Feigelson, who passed away April 9, 2001. Dr. Feigelson served Columbia University for more than four decades; first as professor of b
 FRIBOURG-Michel. The Board of Directors, senior management and staff of Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. mourn the passing of Michel Fribourg, a founding shareholder and a member of our Board of Directors from the inception of the Company until his recent retirement. We will deeply miss his
 GROSSMAN-Sidney. With the deepest sense of loss, his devoted family announces the passing of our indomitable patriarch. For every day of his 86 years he lived life to the fullest, with unconditional love for his family, commitment to philanthropic causes and passion for all that is just and
 HEYMANN - Herbert. Distin guished philanthropist and civic leader, died Tuesday, April 10, 2001 in Lafayette, Louisiana, following a brief illness. He is survived by his wife, Janis T. Heymann, his daughters, Claire Heymann of Dallas, Lila Heymann of New York City, and Joan Heymann Bergmann
 INGALLS-George L. George Lewis Ingalls, 86, of Binghamton died Tuesday afternoon, April 10, 2001 at Our Lady of Lourdes hospital. Mr. Ingalls is survived by his wife of 58 years Dorothy Joggerst Ingalls, Binghamton; three sons and daughters in law, Bryan W. and Jane Ingalls, Chevy Chase, MD
 ITALIANO-Michael G. Died April 12, 2001 at St. John's Riverside Hospital, Yonkers, of congestive heart failure. He was 95 years old and lived in Yonkers for the last 45 years. Retired at 63, he and his wife Mildred were active members of the Yonkers Senior Citizens Program, Group 7. Loving 
 JACOBSON-Eugene. Of Englewood, NJ. Beloved husband of Jean nee Zuckman, devoted father of Ellen Levine and Karen Jacobson. Loving grandfather of Daniel Levine, Peter Levine, Jeffrey Bruno, and Stephen Bruno. Cherished great-grandfather of Lucas Dragon Levine. Services Friday noon, Gutterman
 MEYROWITZ-Paul. Of Great Neck, NY and Hallandale, FL. On April 12, 2001 at 86. Beloved husband of Jannette, his wife of 60 years, devoted father of Robert and David, cherished father-in-law of Ellen and Susan, devoted grandfather to Stacy, Alyson, Eric, Melissa, Jessica and Andrew and great
 NICHOLSON-William J., Ph.D. The Faculty and Staff of the Department of Community and Preventive Medicine mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, William J. Nicholson, Ph.D., Professor Emeritus in Occupational and Environmental Medicine. Dr. Nicholson joined the faculty in 1969 at the r
 PERL-Harold S. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Harold S. Perl. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Betty, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary 
 RAPAPORT-Dr. Felix. We mourn the passing of our beloved and distinguished member, Dr. Felix Rapaport, & pray that the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Our condolences to his wife, Margaret, & to his children, Max and Karen, Ben and Michaella, Shimon, Misha and E
 WAGNER-Robert. April 13, 1924April 12, 2001. Beloved husband of Joan (Rush); loving father of John and Michele, Steve and Barbara; adoring grandfather of Daniel, Jesse & Katie. The Man: devoted to, and cherished by, his family. Services Friday, April 13, 2001, at 1:00 P.M., Riverside Nassau
 Richard Evans Schultes, a swashbuckling scientist and influential Harvard University educator who was widely considered the preeminent authority on hallucinogenic and medicinal plants, died on Tuesday in Boston. He was 86 and lived in Waltham, a Boston suburb. Dr. Schultes (pronounc
 Chester L. Posey, an advertising executive who played a key role in shaping Exxon's tiger logo, died on Monday in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 77 and lived in Vero Beach. The cause of death was cancer. Mr. Posey was a second-generation employee of McCann-Erickson, now called McCa
 Harvey R. Ball, the strongest claimant to having invented the smiley face, that 100-watt yellow grin adorning tote bags, letters, car bumpers, cycling shorts and eventually a United States postage stamp, died on Thursday in Worcester, Mass. He was 79. The cause was liver failure, sa
 Harold Leon Korn, a legal scholar who helped devise a road map for the maze of civil laws invoked in courts across the state of New York, died on March 27 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 71 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Lenox, Mass. The cause
 John W. Raber, a former chairman and president of the Green Point Savings Bank, died on March 29 at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Raber joined Green Point in Brooklyn in 1928 as a clerk. He became an officer in 1942 and was secretary and executive vice president befo
 GROSSMAN-Sidney. With the deepest sense of loss, his devoted family announces the passing of our indomitable patriarch. For every day of his 86 years he lived life to the fullest, with unconditional love for his family, commitment to philanthropic causes and passion for all that is just and
 WHITE-Murray. On April 12, 2001, age 95. Beloved husband of the late Barbara. Loving father of Greg. Member of the Town Club, World War II veteran, actor in the 1930's. He will be greatly missed. Service on Sunday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 Robert A. Moon, a career postal employee who in 1963 won a 20-year fight for what was to become the ZIP code, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Leesburg, FL, 34748. He is the undisputed father of the first three digits in the code. Mr. Moon was 83 and lived in a  nursing home in Lees
 Sandy Bull, a guitarist, composer and improviser whose extended fantasias merged American folk styles with jazz, classical and world music, died on Wednesday at his home in Franklin, Tenn. He was 60. The cause was cancer, said a friend, Jeff Hanna of the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band.     
 Sully Boyar, a character actor who worked in films, on television and in theater, died on March 23 while waiting for a bus in Whitestone, Queens, where he lived. He was 77. Reared as one of seven children in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, Mr. Boyar was an established lawyer w
 Harry Boykoff, the first big-man superstar in New York City college basketball, died on Feb. 20 at St John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, said a daughter, Amy Kuklin. His obituary was delayed because word of his death did not reach T
 Jacob W. Getzels, who helped redefine measures of intelligence with his research on creativity, died on April 7 at his home in Chicago. He was 89. Mr. Getzels spent a half-century on the faculty of the University of Chicago, helping establish educational administration as a field of
 ASIP-William. The Bard College community mourns the passing of William Asip, former athletic coach and business manager of Bard and a long time friend of the college. His many years of dedication and commitment to excellence on behalf of the college will long be remembered, and he will be s
 BALDWIN-John M. Of New York City, suddenly on April 10, 2001 at age 64. Executive Vice President of Kenner and Co. Beloved husband of Ellen Brooks Baldwin. Father of Jonathan and Alan Baldwin. Son of Gwendolyn M. Baldwin and the late Charles E. Baldwin, Jr. Brother of Charles E. Baldwin III
 BERKOWITZ-Irwin B. On April 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Muriel. Loving father of Jess, Neal and Helaine. Adored and adoring to his seven grandchildren. Dear brother of Myra, Adele and Barry. A dedicated principal of P.S. 150 Q and life long educator. Services at Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memor
 CANTOR-Arthur. The Jewish Publication Society extends condolences to the family of Arthur Cantor, whose decade of service on the Board of Trustees and exemplary generosity so greatly benefitted American Jewish literature and culture. May his memory be for a blessing. Honorable Norma L. Shap
 CLAYSON-David, Dr. Died April 10, 2001. David was Professor Emeritus and Director of Clinical Training of Psychology in Psychiatry at the Weill Medical College at Cornell University. He was CoFounder and Charter President of the Association of Professors of Psychology in Medical Schools, an
 de ALESSANDRINI di NEUENSTEIN-Dr. Luigi Maria. Died on April 10th. He was 82 and lived in New York City. Born on August 3, 1918, in Genoa, Italy. He graduated from the University of Genoa's Medical School on June 18, 1943 and received his OBGYN specialty on November 16, 1949. He served as L
 DeLAMBILY-Capt. Robert W., 76, Master Mariner, USMM. Died April 7, 2001. Resident of Lanoka Harbour, NJ, and Stuart, FL. Surviving are his wife Marguerite; son Robert W. DeLambily Jr., Haddonfield, NJ; daughters Suzan Hale, Toms River, NJ, Barbara Rodgers, Sugar Hill, GA. Memorial service A
 DUBNER-Melvin. Of Montclair, NJ, passed away suddenly April 12, 2001, at the age of 63. Beloved husband of Roberta, loving and proud father of Adam and Aaron. Delighted and doting grandfather of Sarah, the five month old daughter of Adam and Kim, and loving brother to Ronald, Martin, Harry 
 FRIEDMAN-Martin R., Esq. 92. Formerly of Astoria, Queens. With a deep sense of loss his family announces his peaceful passing on April 12, 2001 in Great Neck, NY. Devoted husband of the late Charlotte. Beloved father of Barbara and Stephen Weisen. Adored grandfather of Daniel and Carly. Che
 GROSSMAN-Sidney. With the deepest sense of loss, his devoted family announces the passing of our indomitable patriarch. For every day of his 86 years he lived life to the fullest, with unconditional love for his family, commitment to philanthropic causes and passion for all that is just and
 NAROFF-Stanley, 70. Of Aventura, FL, passed away April 10, 2001. Survived by his loving sister Phyllis (Marvin) Buchner; his niece Caryn (Tim) Coville; his nephew Alan (Karen) Buchner; and his 4 greatnephews. A unique and creative person who will be greatly missed.       
 ROTHCHILD-Seymour. The students, staff and community of Harvard Hillel mourn the loss of Seymour Rothchild, scientist, musician, philanthropist and student of Torah. We express our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Sylvia and their children, Alice, Judith and Joseph. May his memory be a Bless
 SIMMONS-George A. Age 100. March 20, 2001. Beloved son, brother, husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather and patriarch of his family. Survived by his adoring son Richard, daughter Vivien, granddaughters Monica and Alexandra, and great-grandchildren Jesse and Morgan. We will love him
 WEINTRAUB-Joseph. The Interfaith Alliance of Nassau County mourns the loss of its Vice President Joseph Weintraub of Great Neck. His leadership, along with that of his companion, Esther Halpert, played a large part in many of TIA's successes.       
 WEISSMAN-William R. Beloved husband of Judy, adored father of Barbara (Donny) and Lesley (Jamie), cherished grandfather of Josh, Lauren, Rebecca and Jacob. He was an extraordinary man who was loved by many and will be missed by all who knew him.       
 WHITTELSEY-Daniel Chauncey. Age 77. Of Mt. Lake Park, formerly of Coral Gables, FL, passed away on Tuesday, April 10, 2001, in Morgantown, WV. He was born January 24, 1924, in Bay Shore, Long Island, and was a son of the late Daniel I. Whittelsey and Freda (Peck) Whittelsey. Mr. Whittelsey 
 WRIGHT-Ben G. Died April 10, 2001 at the age of 89 in Colorado Springs, Colorado. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Dolly Wright, a daughter Mrs. William Cogswell and her husband Bill of Colorado Springs, two grandchildren, Meghan and Ben. Mr. Wright was the former publisher of Field 
 RUSSELL-William T. April 15, 1977 In loving memory His Family       
 Dr. Paul Kendrick McKissock, a plastic surgeon known for a breast reduction procedure he developed early in his career, died on March 26 at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 75. Dr. McKissock presented his technique at an international meeting in Montreal in 1971, and it has co
 Devi Lal, a populist Indian politician known as the raging bull of Haryana, who served as deputy prime minister from 1989 to 1991, died in New Delhi on April 6. He was 86. He became well known for political maneuvering and for a failed plan to build a kind of Indian Disneyland.     
 Dr. Donald McKay Shafer, a New York eye surgeon who developed innovative operating techniques to forestall blindness and trained generations of ophthalmologists, died on  April 4 in Clearwater, Fla. Formerly of Westport, Conn., he was 89 and had retired to Dunedin Isles, Fla. Dr. Sh
 Joey Ramone, the singer whose misfit style and guileless shout in the band the Ramones defined punk rock as a music for Everyman, died yesterday at New York Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 49. The cause was lymphatic cancer, said Arturo Vega, the band's longtime artistic direct
 Jérôme Lindon, the widely admired head of Éditions de Minuit, an independent French publishing house that includes two Nobel Prize winners, Samuel Beckett and Claude Simon, among its authors, died on April 9 in Paris. He was 75. His death from cancer was disclosed after he was bu
 BALDWIN-John M. Of New York City, suddenly on April 10, 2001 at age 64. Executive Vice President of Kenner and Co. Beloved husband of Ellen Brooks Baldwin. Father of Jonathan and Alan Baldwin. Son of Gwendolyn M. Baldwin and the late Charles E. Baldwin, Jr. Brother of Charles E. Baldwin III
 BERKOWITZ-Irwin B. On April 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Muriel. Loving father of Jess, Neal and Helaine. Adored and adoring to his seven grandchildren. Dear brother of Myra, Adele and Barry. A dedicated principal of P.S. 150 Q and lifelong educator. Services at Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memori
 CERNUSCHI-Alberto, Ph.D. On April 14, 2001. Founder of Caravan International Corporation and Cernuschi Galleries. Author, art critic, renaissance man, independent spirit, kind heart, beloved husband of Ursula and cherished father of Edward and Claude. He will be profoundly missed. For infor
 DRAESEL-Herbert G. Of Wyckoff, NJ, died April 14, 2001. Survived by his children June Bickert, Susan Davis, Robin Frickman and The Rev. Herbert G. Jr. For information, C.C. Van Emburgh Funeral Home, Ridgewood, NJ.       
 GROSSMAN-Sidney. With the deepest sense of loss, his devoted family announces the passing of our indomitable patriarch. For every day of his 86 years he lived life to the fullest, with unconditional love for his family, commitment to philanthropic causes and passion for all that is just and
 SCOTT-C. Howell. Beloved husband and best friend of Lalitte for 40 years, died April 14 at his home in East Hampton, NY. Devoted to his daughters Cecil S. Dupont and Galen S. Lockwood and to his grandson Hanford N. Lockwood, he is also survived by his sister Alexandra S. Hodge of Tucson, AZ
 SKLAR-Martin. The members of Temple Beth-El of Long Beach mourn the profound loss of our esteemed and beloved Board member and congregant. We will miss his good counsel and gracious nature. We have lost a dear and longtime friend. May the family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and
 TOBIAS-Mollie. The Officers, National Commission and staff of The Anti-Defamation League mourn the death of Mollie Tobias, beloved mother of our National Chairman Glen A. Tobias. We extend our deepest condolences to Glen, his wife Lynn, their children and the entire family. Abraham H. Foxma
 TOFEL-Lee C. On April 14, 2001. Adored wife of the late Harry. Beloved mother of Joseph and Robert and mother-in-law of Dorothy and Susan. Treasured grandmother and great-grandmother of Steven, Beth, Richard, Lawrence, Brett, Matthew, Peter, Colby, David, Andrew, Rachel, Colin, Carly and Al
 WEINGARTEN-Victor. Died at home, on April 11, at the age of 84. He is survived by his wife, sister and brother, and his two daughters and their families. Contributions may be made in his memory to Human Rights Watch, 350 Fifth Ave., New York, NY 10118-3299. A memorial service will be held a
 WILKE-Walter H. Professor Emeritus of psychology, New York University; scholar, teacher, administrator and professional leader, died Thursday, April 12. He is survived by his wife, Marguerite M. Wilke, and grandchildren Tamara G. Burke and Richard R. Garnache. Funeral private.       
 Stephen Prokopoff, a museum director and curator, died on March 28 in Iowa City. He was 71 and had homes in Iowa City and Paris. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said his wife, Lois Craig. Mr. Prokopoff, who began his career as a painter, was known for his attent
 Former Representative Frank Annunzio, who championed such diverse causes as the survival of the neighborhood savings and loan and the minting of commemorative coins to raise money for civic projects, died on April 8 at his home in Lincolnwood, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 86. Mr. 
 Joey Ramone, the singer whose misfit style and guileless shout in the band the Ramones defined punk rock as a music for Everyman, died on Sunday at New York Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 49. The cause was lymphatic cancer, said Arturo Vega, the band's longtime artistic direct
 BAKER-James E. On April 15, 2001. A graduate of Haverford College and Fletcher School of International Law and Diplomacy, Jim devoted his life to helping others through his work at the U.S. State Department & the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs. He is survived by a brother
 BALDWIN-John M. Of New York City, suddenly on April 10, 2001 at age 64. Executive Vice President of Kenner and Co. Beloved husband of Ellen Brooks Baldwin. Father of Jonathan and Alan Baldwin. Son of Gwendolyn M. Baldwin and the late Charles E. Baldwin, Jr. Brother of Charles E. Baldwin III
 BLOOM-Irving. Beloved father of Robert. Husband of the late Ethel. Brother of Bernard. Cherished uncle and great uncle to many nieces and nephews. Good friend to many. A wonderful man, he will be missed by everyone. Services 1:00 PM Tuesday at BoulevardRiverside Chapels, 1901 Flatbush Avenu
 CLAYSON-David Merrill. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Weill Medical College of Cornell University and New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of David Clayson, Ph.D., professor emeritus of clinical psychology in psychiatry. For 25 years, from 1968 to 1993, Dr. Clayson was head o
 DUMKE-William Edner Sr. Devoted husband and father and long time resident of Scarsdale, NY died after a short illness on Thursda, April 12 at his Stonington, Conn. home to which he and his wife had retired. He was 71. Mr. Dumke is remembered by his wife of 45 years Patricia; his brother Jam
 EDISON-Ralph. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Thomas K. Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 GWIRTZMAN - Burton. Died peacefully on April 14 from lung cancer at age 75. A true friend to literally thousands with whom he has maintained loving contact throughout his lifetime. A man of the highest integrity, loyalty and humanity. He served bravely as a medic in World War II, he worked 
 HAMMERMAN-Fay. We extend heartfelt condolences to Steve Hammerman on the loss of his beloved mother, a true Eishes Chayil. As devoted friends and Founders of the Medical Center, Steve and his wife Eleanor, who is a member of the Women's Division Board, have made a vital difference to the we
 HYMAN-Jeffry Ross (aka Joey Ramone). Peacefully passed away April 15, 2001. He is survived by his devoted mother Charlotte Lesher, brother Mitchel Lee Hyman (aka Mickey Leigh) and sister-in-law Arlene Hyman. They, along with his family, friends and devoted fans, will remember both personall
 LEVIN-Milton. On April 16th at the age of 93. Beloved husband of Fanny. Devoted father of Gene A. Heller and James P. Levin and his wife Emily. Loving grandfather of Michael J. Heller and his wife Rhonda, Kenneth L. Heller and his wife Lynda, Joanna R. Karp and her husband William, Stephani
 MENG -J. Joseph. Of Boston, on April 13, 2001. Cherished husband of Christine (Fall). Loving father of Matthew Fall D'Elia. Beloved friend of Martha Crowninshield. Also survived by his children, John, Ann and Catherine. Brother of Marie Caffrey of Milford, PA, Kathryn Meng of Westbury, L.I.
 SCHUMACHER-Kenneth Locke. Of Little Falls, NJ. On April 16, 2001. He is survived by his wife, Patricia (nee Germann). Devoted father of Gary Schumacher of Weston, CT and Jeffrey Schumacher of Cedar Grove, NJ. Grandfather of Ryan, Benjamin and Brynn. Beloved brother of Judith Ann Schumacher 
 SCHWARTZ-Rabbi Lester A. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained after a career in business, he served pulpits in Georgia, Connecticut and Florida before his retirement in 1999. We express our deepest condolences to his wife, Rosalind Diane, children, 
 SCOTT-C. Howell. Beloved husband and best friend of Lalitte for 40 years, died April 14 at his home in East Hampton, NY. Devoted to his daughters Cecil S. Dupont and Galen S. Lockwood and to his grandson Hanford N. Lockwood, he is also survived by his sister Alexandra S. Hodge of Tucson, AZ
 SKLAR-Martin. The Mesivta of Long Beach marks with sorrow the loss of our longtime benefactor, dear friend and neighbor. His warmth, integrity and respect for Jewish values will long be remembered. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Blanche, sisters Estelle and Lynn, children Richard, P
 SMITH-Bradley. Of Setauket, New York at the age of 87. A member of Yale College class of 1936, he served with distinction in the Royal Air Force and later in the United States Air Force in World War II and in the USAF in the Korean War. He is survived by Christine Brown Smith, his wife of 5
 WAGNER-Robert. April 13, 1924April 12, 2001. Beloved husband of Joan (Rush); loving father of John and Michele, Steve and Barbara; adoring grandfather of Daniel, Jesse & Katie. The Man: devoted to, and cherished by, his family.       
 ZIMBACH-Morris. April 12, at the age of 97. President of Zim Textile Corp. Beloved husband of the late Minnie, adored father of Bobby and Jerry, and Rochelle and Egon, cherished grandfather of Lisa, Mel, David, Lori, Ira, Grace, Bari, Aaron. Darling great-grandfather of Holli and Kara. He i
 Michael Ritchie, who directed  films like ''Downhill Racer,'' ''The Candidate,'' ''Smile,'' ''The Bad News Bears,'' ''Semi-Tough'' and ''Fletch,'' died on Monday. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, said his wife, Jimmie B. Ritchie.     
 COX-Bert George ''B.G.'' Cox of Rye, New York and Boca Grande, Florida died on Monday, April 16, 2001 in Rye. His death resulted from complications due to a stroke. He was 80 years old. Mr. Cox was with The Joseph & Feiss Company, Inc., America's oldest clothing manufacturer and a former di
 CSIDA-Andrew J. April 12, 2001, peacefully at age 85, in Alexandria, Virginia. Devoted husband to the late Angela Galgano Csida, whom he cherished and cared for with love to her last breath. Beloved father to Angela B. Saunders of Alexandria, whom he supported from her first breath with his
 FEIGELSON-Philip. We mourn the death of a complete, outstanding person and significant scientist. He was a warm, generous and loyal friend and colleague. We extend sympathy to his equally wonderful wife Muriel and to his children. Phil, we remember and honor you. Sasha Englard Irving Listow
 FRIBOURG-Michel. The faculty, students and staff of the Joseph H. Lauder Institute of Management and International Studies at the University of Pennsylvania mourn the loss of Michel Fribourg, a founding member of our Board of Governors. We are grateful for his wise counsel and extend our de
 GOTTLIEB-Leo. Died April 11, 2001 at 84 years of age in Deerfield Beach, FL following surgery for colon cancer. Funeral was April 15th at Star of David Cemetery in N. Lauderdale, FL. His life was one of fearless fun, loved by all, now it's done. He is survived by his sons, percussionist Gor
 GWIRTZMAN - Burton. Died peacefully on April 14 from lung cancer at age 75. A true friend to literally thousands with whom he has maintained loving contact throughout his lifetime. A man of the highest integrity, loyalty and humanity. He served bravely as a medic in World War II, he worked 
 HACKETT-David P. April 17, 2001. Beloved husband of Ann, loving father of Allyson and her husband Mitchell Frischer. Cherished grandfather of Brooke. Loving brother of Vincent, Oliver and Terrence. A true gentleman who was respected for his honesty and integrity. He will be deeply missed by
 KALKER-Philip E. Died April 15, 2001 in Williamstown, MA. He was a resident of Williamstown and Hilton Head Island, SC. Mr. Kalker was a 1954 graduate of Williams College. He was active in Williams College Alumni affairs and returned to the Berkshire region after a long residence in Bergen 
 LANGBAUM-Eric. Suddenly and peacefully on April 16 at age 59. Adored husband and best friend of Lee (Sherman). Loving and devoted father of Samantha Beinhacker and Theodora (Teddi) Hunter and father-in-law of Avi Beinhacker and Edward (Ted) Hunter. Cherished ''Pop'' of Max Beinhacker and Et
 LEVIN-Milton. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our devoted friend and honorary member of our Board of Overseers. A steadfast champion of our institution since its opening in 1955, he and his wife, Fanny, were among the first members of our Soci
 LIGNON-Alfred. The Board of Directors, other volunteers and staff of the United Hospital Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of a dear friend. For more than a decade, Fred served as a devoted, thoughtful and enthusiastic Fund volunteer and active hospital auxilian. His keen interest in hea
 LINENTHAL-Arthur J., M.D. on Monday April 16, of Canton, MA formerly of Brookline, MA. Husband of Violet (Beye). Father of Edward T. Linenthal of Oshkosh, WI, Barbara Linenthal of Waltham, MA, Richard A. Linenthal of London, England and Amy Halliday of Charlottesville, VA. Grandfather of Aa
 LURKIS-Jeffry Lowell, 61, of Marina del Rey, CA, died of lymphoma on April 13. He was the loving companion of Edward Hiser for twenty years; the beloved son of author and retired NY City Chief Engineer, Alexander Lurkis and deceased artist Carin Tendler Lurkis; father of Elisa and Spencer W
 NACK-Saul H. The Etzion Foundation expresses its deepest condolences on the passing of Mr. Saul H. Nack. A loving husband, father, grandfather and friend, he served with distinction and humility as President of the B'Nai Israel Jewish Centre. Together with his life partner Frieda, Mr. Nack 
 NATHAN-Sylvan H. Died April 11 after a long illness. A lawyer for 60 years he was highly regarded in his profession. He will be remembered for his sense of humor and selfless devotion to his clients and friends. We will miss him. Jules Levy, Seymour Peyser and Eugene Simonoff       
 OROVAN-Herman E. Formerly of New York, died in Arizona. He was an owner of an import/export business in New York. He retired in 1962. He moved to Arizona in 1971 from Great Neck. He is survived by his wife Elsie, 2 children, five grandchildren and nine greatgrandchildren. Funeral services w
 PELGRIFT-Robert Youngs. Of West Hartford, CT. Died April 12, 2001 at age 79, of complications from a head injury suffered last December. A distinguished trial attorney, he was in private practice with the Hartford law firm Pelgrift, Dodd, Blumenfeld & Nair and its successors for many years,
 SCOTT-C. Howell. Beloved husband and best friend of Lalitte for 40 years, died April 14 at his home in East Hampton, NY. Devoted to his daughters Cecil S. Dupont and Galen S. Lockwood and to his grandson Hanford N. Lockwood, he is also survived by his sister Alexandra S. Hodge of Tucson, AZ
 TROTTA-Sig R. Of Stamford, CT, died suddenly April 16, 2001. CEO of Sound Environment Associates, an Electrical Engineer and a U.S. Coast Guard Licensed Master. Beloved father of Deborah Casey, Gregory Trotta and Julie Vanderblue, grandfather of Tanya, Ryan, Kember, Dane and Greta, son of A
 TRUBEK-Max. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of Max Trubek, M.D., Professor of Clinical Medicine at NYU School of Medicine and a renowned internist in private practice for 63 years. Dr. Trubek completed his training at Bellevue Hospital, where he subse
 VERMUT-Hyman, 83. Beloved husband of Sydelle, passed away on April 17, 2001. He is survived and will be deeply missed by his children, Stephan and Barbara and Leslie and Tom, and his adoring grandchildren, Jennifer, Felix, Aaron, Ann, McGee, Lauren and Alex. The family will be sitting shiva
 WILKE-Walter H., Ph.D., The New York State Psychological Association is deeply saddened by the death of a respected friend and accomplished professional, Past President Walter H. Wilke, Ph.D. We extend our condolences to his family.       
 WINTON-David. The Society of Mayflower Descendants in the State of New York mourns the death of David Holt Winton, our past Governor. His generous and hardworking support of the Society were an inspiration. We extend our sympathy to his wife and three daughters. Walter R. Brewster Jr., Gove
 Dr. Thomas H. Stix, whose elegant mastery of the literally infinite complexities of waves in electrified gases helped create a new field of science, died on Monday in Princeton. He was 76 and an emeritus professor of astrophysical sciences at Princeton University. The cause was leuk
 Burt Gwirtzman, who was swept into a lifelong passion for sports as a shivering youngster at the 1934 pro football championship game and became the No. 1 fan of the football Giants and hockey Rangers, died Saturday at New York University Medical Center. Mr. Gwirtzman, who lived in Manhattan
 COX-Bert George ''B.G.'' Cox of Rye, New York and Boca Grande, Florida died on Monday, April 16, 2001 in Rye. His death resulted from complications due to a stroke. He was 80 years old. Mr. Cox was with The Joseph & Feiss Company, Inc., America's oldest clothing manufacturer and a former di
 DRIVER-William Raymond, Jr. of Westwood, MA formerly of Needham, MA. on April 17th at 93. Beloved husband of Phoebe Barnes Driver and the late Charlotte Noyes Driver. Managing partner at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. of Boston. Survived by his children, Sally Midgette Anderson of Roswell, N
 GUEST-Raymond R. (Andy). Died of Lymphoma, April 2, 2001 at his home, Rock Hill Farm, in Front Royal, Virginia. He was born September 29, 1939, the son of the late Ambassador Raymond R. Guest and Elizabeth (Lily) Polk Guest. Mr. Guest attended the Pomfret School, and was graduated from Yale
 HACKETT-David P. April 17, 2001. Beloved husband of Ann, loving father of Allyson and her husband Mitchell Frischer. Cherished grandfather of Brooke. Loving brother of Vincent, Oliver and Terrence. A true gentleman who was respected for his honesty and integrity. He will be deeply missed by
 HENNIGAN-Thomas N. Of Yonkers, NY on April 18, 2001. Beloved husband of Trudy McSpedon Hennigan. Loving son of Catherine N. Hennigan, dear father of Colleen A. Hennigan, Tara Hennigan Case and the late Sue Ellen Hennigan Murray. Cherished grandfather of Morgan Elizabeth Murray. Brother of A
 HOCHBERG-Alan. Beloved husband of Lucille. Loving father of Marcia and Howard Tucker, Robert Hochberg, and David and Shari Hochberg. Cherished grandfather of Jenny, Alexandra, Nicole and Julia. Son of the late Max and Jennie Hochberg and brother of the late Samuel Hochberg and Annette Herve
 LANGBAUM-Eric. Suddenly and peacefully on April 16 at age 59. Adored husband and best friend of Lee (Sherman). Loving and devoted father of Samantha Beinhacker and Theodora (Teddi) Hunter and father-in-law of Avi Beinhacker and Edward (Ted) Hunter. Cherished ''Pop'' of Max Beinhacker and Et
 LATTNER-Michael E. A Computer Graphics Consultant. Survived by his partner Sheldon Saliman and his brothers Stewart and Ned. Services Friday, at 11:00 AM at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ.       
 LUSINS-John. The Confrerie des Chevaliers du Tastevin, SousCommanderie de New York and Commanderie d'Amerique, notes with sorrow the death of Dr. John O. Lusins, Delegue General Nordest. We express our condolences to his wife, Marie, his children and his grandchild. Dr. Lusins was a Grand O
 RABINOWITZ-Milton. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Monday April 16, 2001. He will be missed. Services will be held Friday April 20, 2001 at 9:45 A.M. at Beth El Synagogue, Boca Raton, FL. R. Paul Kashde
 WEINGARTEN-Victor. Died at home, on April 11, 2001 at the age of 84. He is survived by his wife, sister and brother, and his two daughters and their families. Contributions may be made in his memory to Human Rights Watch, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10118-3299. A memorial service will be
 TRAVERS-John H., MD. The Medical Staff of Mercy Medical Center mourns the recent passing of John H. Travers, MD, a well-respected and loved member of the Department of Internal Medicine since July, 1972. He served for many years on the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff and founded th
 Hiroshi Teshigahara, a celebrated Japanese filmmaker and grand master of the Sogetsu School for flower arrangement, died on Saturday at a hospital here. He was 74. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Teshigahara, who gained international acclaim for his avant-garde 
 Meldrim Thomson Jr., the former New Hampshire governor who became an ultraconservative icon with his grand and petty crusades against taxes, big government and political critics, died yesterday at his home in Orford, N.H. He was 89. Mr. Thomson's long struggle with Parkinson's disea
 Mullah Muhammad Rabbani, who had a reputation as one of the more moderate leaders of the militant Taliban militia, which governs most of Afghanistan, died of cancer on Monday in Pakistan, where he had gone for medical treatment. His age was not available. His body was flown on a Uni
 GERNGROSS-Hans Oskar. Formerly of Manhattan, died Wednesday, April 11, 2001, at his home in Fearrington Village, NC at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Frances (nee Banzhas). Devoted father of Margaret J. Pfeiffer of Little Rock, AR, Thomas James of Chapel Hill, NC, Andrew Bello of Manhatt
 HENNIGAN-Thomas N. Of Yonkers, NY on April 18, 2001. Beloved husband of Trudy McSpedon Hennigan. Loving son of Catherine N. Hennigan, dear father of Colleen A. Hennigan, Tara Hennigan Case and the late Sue Ellen Hennigan Murray. Cherished grandfather of Morgan Elizabeth Murray. Brother of A
 HOCHBERG-Alan. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing of our client and admired friend of many years. This compassionate man abundantly showered his love, understanding and consideration to his family, employees and friends. Alan was a man who enjo
 LAZARUS-David. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LEVIN-Milton. The firm of Max Gruber Associates mourns the passing of our esteemed senior member, Milton Levin, who along with his partner, Maurice D. Gruber, developed much of the land on Long Island. For the past 55 years they were developers, builders and owners of properties such as Wes
 MOORE-Charles F. Of Dover, MA; died suddenly on April 18, 2001. He was 67. Husband of Jane (Douglas) Moore, two daughters, Alexandria F. Moore of Brooktondale, NY; and Margaret Moore de Chicojay of Arlington, MA; three grandchildren and one brother, Dr. Thomas E. Moore of San Francisco, CA.
 PENTZ-Herbert C. A sixth generation American, all of whose paternal ancestors since 1710 were born, lived and died in New York City, died at the age of 98 years, a 56 year resident of Pelham, New York. He graduated from Columbia College and Columbia Law School in New York City, to both of w
 SCHOENBERG-Mitchell. Died on April 18th, 2001, at age 89. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of the late Dr. Bruce S. Schoenberg. Devoted grandfather of Ian and Claire. Cherished brother of Marguerite Davidow. Was for many years Senior Chemical Consultant and Chief Executive, Sales,
 WEINTRAUB-Morris. Of Weston, CT., and Palm Beach, FL, passed away April 18, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Audrey, his adored son Robert and dear granddaughters Erin and Kira, his brother Jack and many nephews and nieces. Morris was retired president of National Cleaning Contractor
 WISHNER - Joseph. Menorah Home and Hospital expresses our profound sorrow at the passing of Joseph Wishner, beloved father of Judith Jankolovits & father-in-law of our esteemed Board member Arthur Jankolovits. He will be deeply missed by all of us at Menorah. We extend our sincere condolenc
 Peter Maag, a Swiss conductor who enjoyed a career on both sides of the Atlantic, died on Monday in Verona, Italy. He was 81. Mr. Maag was born in St. Gall, Switzerland, on May 10, 1919, to musical parents: his mother played second violin in the Capet Quartet, while his father, a fo
 Alfred Moen, who in the 1940's invented the single-handled faucet in a fit of anger after twisting on a conventional two-handled faucet and accidentally burning his hands, died Tuesday at his home in Destin, Fla. He was 84. It was while he was a mechanical engineering student at the
 Kurt H. Hohenemser, who in World War II helped design the first German combat helicopters and went on to become a pioneer in American helicopter development, died on April 7 at his St. Louis home. He was 95. Mr. Hohenemser's designs included a precursor to the Osprey, the troubled M
 Merton Edward Davies, a celestial mapmaker and a pioneer in spy satellite technology, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. A resident of nearby Pacific Palisades, he was 83. Mr. Davies went to work for the Rand Corporation in 1947 and remained there until his death.
 Mitchell Stern, a violinist and violist who taught at the Manhattan School of Music, died on April 9 in Manhattan. He was 45 and lived in River Vale, N.J. The cause was complications after surgery for a brain aneurysm, said Deborah Kinzler, the director of public relations at the mu
 BERNSTEIN-Ned. Did you hear the one about the cannibal who passed his friend in the woods? Jokester, punster, wordsmith, trumpeter, real estate broker and operator, died on April 20, at the age of 89. Son of Sarah and Alex. Father of Joel and Asher. Grandfather of Mark, Francis, Eric, Alex 
 CHISHOLM-William H., 83. Of Greenwich died on April 18, at home. Survived by his wife Edith ''Peggy'' Chisholm, two daughters Barbara C. Young of Montrose, CO, Margo J. Chisholm of Carbondale, CO and a granddauther, he was predeceased by his first wife Alice Chisholm. Services will be held 
 DiGIACINTO-Albert G. Our sincere condolences to Dr. George DiGiacinto on the passing of his father, Albert G. DiGiacinto, father of two, grandfather of six. Dept. of Neurosurgery, SLRHC Drs. Douglas Cohen, Noel Perin, Chandra Sen, Arthur Williams, and J. Lesser, P. Costantino.       
 FINE-Arnold, on April 19, at age 93. His illustrious 60 year career began at Interstate Department Stores, then as a Controller for Wilbur Rogers and consultant for the Insurance Department of the State of N.Y. Beloved husband of Cecile. Loving father of Richard, Paula and Jane. Cherished g
 GORDON-I. Robert. On April 20, 2001, in his 97th year. Beloved husband of Marcelle; stepfather of Chuck and Bob; beloved uncle of Elaine, Connie, Corinne, and Edward; granduncle of Gloria, Martin, Stanley, Joyce, Nanette, and Robin. He was caring and generous and will be greatly missed.    
 LEVIN-Milton. We are saddened to announce that Milton Levin, loving father of Trustee, James P. Levin, passed away on April 16, 2001. Our sincerest condolences to his loving wife Fanny, son James Levin, daughter Gene Heller, grandchildren Joanna Karp, Stephanie and Alexander Levin, Michael 
 LEVY-Isadore. Of Aventura, FL & Long Beach, NY. Passed away April 17. Beloved husband of Rosalind. Adored father of Richard (George Ann) and Bruce (Linda), and adoring grandfather of Emily, Kevin and Ben. Also survived by sister Blanche Tempkin and an extended family including many nieces, 
 OPPENBERG-Frieda. Wife of the late George Oppenberg. Devoted mother of Marvin Scott and Jerome Oppenberg and his wife, Bonnie. Dear sister of Mildred Jacoby. Proud grandmother of Jason and Leonard Oppenberg and Steven and Jill Scott. Services noon, Sunday, at Louis Suburban Chapel, 13-01 Br
 WEINTRAUB-Morris. Of Weston, CT., and Palm Beach, FL, passed away April 18, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Audrey, his adored son Robert and dear granddaughters Erin and Kira, his brother Jack and many nephews and nieces. Morris was retired president of National Cleaning Contractor
 Sylvan H. Meyer, a newspaper editor and outspoken white supporter of civil rights in Georgia in the 1950's and 60's, died on April 8 at his home in Dahlonega, Ga. He was 79. Mr. Meyer, who was chairman of the Georgia advisory committee to the United States Civil Rights Commission fr
 Walter O. Stanton, the inventor of an easily replaceable phonograph stylus that was crucial to creating a consumer market for audio equipment, died on Monday in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 86. In the late 1940's Mr. Stanton's slide-in stylus made it possible for users to replace
 ADLY-Dr. Ibrahim K., 79, died of complications from pneumonia on April 18 in Alexandria, VA. Dr. Adly, who held a Ph.D. in economics from American University, had a distinguished career with the United Nations. He served as the Regional Representative for the United Nations Development Prog
 ASEN-Milton. Age 81, of Cranbury, NJ, passed away on April 21, 2001. He was a wonderful man, loved by family and friends alike. He is survived by his wife Alice; his sons Barry, Steven, Jeffrey and Bob; his daughters-in-law Doria and Abbe; and his grandchildren Alex, Faran, Mollie, Emma, Jo
 BERNSTEIN-Ned. Did you hear the one about the cannibal who passed his friend in the woods? Jokester, punster, wordsmith, trumpeter, real estate broker and operator, died on April 20, at the age of 89. Son of Sarah and Alex. Father of Joel and Asher. Grandfather of Mark, Frances, Eric, Alex 
 CHISHOLM-William H., 83. Of Greenwich died on April 18, at home. Survived by his wife Edith ''Peggy'' Chisholm, two daughters Barbara C. Young of Montrose, CO, Margo J. Chisholm of Carbondale, CO and a granddauther, he was predeceased by his first wife Alice Chisholm. Services will be held 
 GERNGROSS-Hans Oskar. Formerly of Manhattan, died Wednesday, April 11, 2001, at his home in Fearrington Village, NC at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Frances (nee Banzhaf). Devoted father of Margaret J. Pfeiffer of Little Rock, AR, Thomas James of Chapel Hill, NC, Andrew Bello of Manhatt
 KAHN-Frank J., Ph.D., J.D. Professor, Lehman College, on April 20, 2001. Dr. Kahn is the beloved husband of the late Abby Pearlman Kahn, loving father of Dr. Julie Kahn and Leora Kahn. Dear brother of Vida Peskay. Dr. Kahn taught communications at the Speech and Theater Department of the Le
 KURSCH-Donald. On April 17, 2001, in Syosset, NY, at 88. Loving husband and father, dedicated teacher, naval officer, loyal Columbia alumnus. Survived by Eleanor, his wife of 59 years, children Donald and Virginia, granddaughter Catherine, brother Edmund and sisters Marilyn and Virginia. Al
 LEVY-Isadore. Of Aventura, FL & Long Beach, NY. Passed away April 17. Beloved husband of Rosalind. Adored father of Richard (George Ann) and Bruce (Linda), and adoring grandfather of Emily, Kevin and Ben. Also survived by sister Blanche Tempkin and an extended family including many nieces, 
 MANES-Chester. Of Chester, New York, a retired engineer for the New York City Board of Education and a past editor of the political commentary publication ''Contemporary Issues'', died February 23rd. He was a graduate of Townsend Harris H.S. and attended City College until enlisting in W.W.
 MEYER-Sylvan, 79. Died peacefully in Dahlonega, Ga., on April 8 watching Tiger win the Masters and his Grand Slam. He was the crusading civil rights editor of the Gainesville, Georgia, Daily Times ('47-'69), and later editor of the Miami News, 1969-73. In the 1970s, he wrote the prospectus 
 O'HEARN-Charles. 99, died in Naples, FL on Friday, April 19, 2001 at Windsor Court. He was a partner of Scudder, Stevens and Clark in New York City until 1951, when at the age of 50, he became Assistant to the President of Yale University in charge of fund raising, from which he retired in 
 POKOTILOW-Joseph. Of Verona, NJ. April 20, 2001. Founder of Bergen Auto Upholstery Co., Teterboro, NJ. He is survived by his wife Helen, two daughters, Marlene Ignatin and Nancy Citti, and four grandchildren. Services will be held at Jewish Memorial Chapel, 841 Allwood Rd., Clifton, NJ, Mon
 POLUMBAUM-Richard. Formerly of Manhattan, died April 20, at his home in Agawam, MA, at the age of 92. Beloved husband of the late Julia Bruner Polumbaum, devoted father of Peter and Douglas, cherished grandfather of Dana, Sara and Laurel. He was the best.       
 RESNICK-Samuel. Age 90, died April 20, 2001. Served in the U.S. Army in World War II. Samuel worked as a graphic artist in NYC. He lived in the Crestwood section of Yonkers for 31 years and also resided in Florida. Survived by his loving daughter June Moskovitz and her husband Don, three gr
 RUDOLPH-Theodore. On April 18th, 2001. A former employee of The New York Times, having retired in 1964. He served with the Army Air Corps Intelligence Division in World War II as an instructor and intelligence person in the War Room. After his retirement, he moved to Chatham, MA. He is surv
 SCHEIDERMAN-Kenneth Benson, 54. Died Tuesday, April 17, 2001 at Baptist Medical CenterBeaches. He was a resident of St. Augustine, Florida, at the time of his death. Born in Summit, New Jersey on July 2, 1946, to Robert and Betty Scheiderman, Ken grew up in Green Village, New Jersey, gradua
 SCHLAMM-Benjamin, 99. His gentle, humorous, kind soul passed over on April 21 in New York Hospital of respiratory failure. He was a retired civil servant and astute observer of human nature. Beloved husband of the late Flora Schlamm, father of Rhoda, brother of Pauline, uncle of Susan Green
 SIMON-Jacob L., 94. Died April 17 in Syracuse. Formerly of Lawrence, NY. Graduate of NYU. A former member of Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst. Author of ''It's Your Business'', and contributor to many accounting journals. Mr. Simon's firm, J.L. Simon and Company, Certified Public Accountants ha
 WAGNER-Dr. Martin. The Postgraduate Psychoanalytic Society mourns the loss of its esteemed member and colleague. Our condolences to his wife Judy, and to his sons and their families.       
 WEINTRAUB-Morris J. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Morris J. Weintraub. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bern
 WEISS-Arthur G. His family wishes to acknowledge with grateful appreciation the kind expressions of sympathy extended by all.       
 Dragoslav Avramovic, a retired World Bank economist who stabilized the Yugoslav economy, died Feb. 25 in Rockville, Md. He was 81. Dr. Avramovic served briefly as the director of the central bank under President Slobodan Milosevic, then became a leading opposition figure before the 
 Giuseppe Sinopoli, an Italian conductor and composer known for individualistic performances in a wide range of Romantic and modern repertory, died on Saturday after collapsing on the podium during a performance of Verdi's ''Aida'' at the Deutsche Opera in Berlin on Friday evening. H
 Dr. Howard Lawrence Sanders, an oceanographer who helped explain the effects of pollution, like oil spills, on deep-sea life forms, died on Feb. 8 at a nursing home in Falmouth, Mass. A resident of Woods Hole, he was 79. His death was reported on April 17 in an obituary in The Times
 Jack Haley Jr., an Emmy-winning producer, director and documentarian who spent much of his career mining a rich vein of Hollywood nostalgia in films like ''That's Entertainment'' (1974), died on Saturday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 67. Mr. Haley, who had been in poor health in re
 Lawrence P. King, an authority on bankruptcy law who taught at the New York University School of Law, died on April 1 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan and Saltaire, N.Y. He had cancer, his family said. At the time of his death, Professor
 Michael Raoul Duval, an investment banker and lawyer who served in the Nixon and Ford White Houses, died Friday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 62. The cause was multiple sclerosis, his wife, Janice Mahan Duval, said. Mr. Duval was a lawyer at the Federal Aviation Admin
 Mike Schacht, a baseball-loving painter, author and teacher whose images of the game, its heroes and its history found their way into museums and private collections and have even been imprinted on designer ties, died Monday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 65 and lived in Atlanta.  
 FORSTER-Bayard Stuyvesant. Investment banker and former NY Commissioner of Transportation, died at his Florida home on April 20. He is survived by his four children: Nicholas Forster, Wendy Forster and Pamela Livingston, all of Boulder, CO, and Alice Russell of Upper Brookville, NY, and by 
 GALLET-Jeffry H. Brooklyn Law School records with profound sorrow the loss of its distinguished and beloved graduate, Judge Jeffry H. Gallet, a member of the Class of 1967. An Adjunct Professor of Law, former President of the Alumni Association and mentor to many students, Judge Gallet gave
 LIDSKY-David (Dave). 99 years young. Husband of deceased wife Florence. Father of Stuart and Barbara. Grandfather of Doron and Sinai. Great-grandfather of Dana and Leah. Brother of Moishe. Dave lived in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, for over 60 years. A respected member of Manhattan Beach Syna
 OVERLANDER-John Craig. 69, longtime resident of Eastchester and Bronxville died following a long illness on April 21, 2001. Born in New York City to John J. and Mary E. Overlander. Mr. Overlander, a US Navy Veteran, was graduated from Iona College in 1958 with a Bachelor of Business Adminis
 TITONE-Salvatore, 71. Beloved husband of Angela. Survived by two sons, Vincent and Michael and his wife Eileen; two daughters, Rosalie Posteinek and Theresa Jaffe and her husband Sheldon; one sister, Rosalie Lamb and her husband, Richard; his five grandchildren: Ariel and Alexis Jaffe, Paul
 ZABLO-David. Beloved son of Diana and the late Abraham Zablo. Brother of Randy and the late Helene. Uncle to Alan, Harrison and Lauren. Passed away April 20, 2001, age 54. The lives he touched are forever truly blessed. ZABLO-David. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and the Ramaz Schoo
 Wang Enmao, a veteran of the Long March by Mao's insurgent army who governed China's Muslim-dominated Xinjiang Province for three decades, was disgraced during the Cultural Revolution and was rehabilitated later, died April 12 in a Beijing hospital, the state-run New China News Agency has r
 Ian Campbell, 12th Duke of Argyll and Chief of the Clan Campbell, who rebuilt Inveraray Castle, his family's ancestral Scottish home, after a disastrous fire and entertained views on Scottish history that drew sharp criticism, died on Sunday in London during heart surgery. He was 63.       
 David M. Walker, a retired astronaut who flew on four space shuttle missions and was decorated as a Navy fighter pilot, died yesterday at a cancer center in Houston. He was 56 and lived near Boise, Idaho. Mr. Walker's family said his illness was sudden and recent, but they did not g
 BIER-Horace. On April 20. The Union for Traditional Judaism and the Institute of Traditional Judaism record with profound sorrow the loss of Horace Bier, the founding president of the UTJ and the first and only chairman of the ITJ. Without Mr. Bier's vision, loyalty and generosity the achie
 FORSTER-Bayard Stuyvesant. Investment banker and former NY Commissioner of Transportation, died at his Florida home on April 20. He is survived by his 4 children: Nicholas Forster, Wendy Forster and Pamela Livingston, all of Boulder, CO., and Alice Russell of Upper Brookville, NY, and by ni
 GALLET-Jeffry H. On April 20, 2001. Beloved husband of Bonnie. Loving father of Sarah. Dear brother of Andrea Lander and Edward Gallet, and brother-in-law of Howard Lander. Uncle of Joy and David. Stepfather of Daniel and Elizabeth. Service on Tuesday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th S
 JONES-Charles E. We are saddened by the loss of the eloquent and charming Charles E. Jones. We will greatly miss the music, talent and grace of this extraordinary man. He is survived by his wife, Jill Axthelm, his sister, Dorothy Kester, his stepdaughter, Megan and her husband J.B. Brown an
 MELSON-Harold W., 78. Retired CPA, on April 23, 2001. Born in Brooklyn, son of the late Jacob and Esther. He is survived by his wife Helene, children Barbara and Mark, son-in-law Joseph Ganz and daughter-in-law Kathy Andriko, grandchildren Mara, Rachel, Zachary and Tyler. Services Wednesday
 PECK-Ruby (Rubin Peckolick) of Boca Raton, FL and NYC. Died on April 21, 2001, after a courageous and prolonged battle. Loving and devoted husband of Dorothy. Father to Carole Peck Harrison of NYC, Phyllis Kahn of Cincinnati,OH, and Randi Heine of Bedford, NY. Grandfather to Adam (Faith) Ha
 SEVILLE-Leon. Of San Francisco, CA., and a former resident of Oceanside, N.Y. After a lifetime as a feisty and tireless volunteer for many causes, Lee died April 21 at age 86 following a courageous struggle with heart disease. He is survived by Ruth, his wife of 61 years, children Marci of 
 SINOPOLI-Giuseppe. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the untimely death of conductor Giuseppe Sinopoli, an extraordinary musician with a bracing intellect, who imbued all his performances with profound feeling. We will not soon forget the performances of ''Tosca'' he led here in 1985 in 
 SNEED-Sherman B. Singer/producer. Succumbed to a heart attack on April 19. Brooklyn, NY. He is survived by his wife Frieda, son Gregory, daughter Sherri, sister Vertna Jones, nephew Mackenzie, great-nephew Ryan, great niece Tiffany, daughter-in-law Tina and grandson Wesley. A private ceremo
 Robert Starer, a respected composer of operas, ballets and many orchestral and instrumental works and the author of two books on rhythm that are widely used by music students, died on Sunday in Kingston, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Daniel.  
 Walter S. Taylor, a flamboyant winemaker who created Bully Hill Vineyards and made it one of New York's largest wine producers, died on Friday at his home in Hammondsport in the Finger Lakes region. He was 69. Mr. Taylor, who had become a quadriplegic in a van accident in 1990, died
 Field Marshal Habes al-Majali, who had been Jordan's defense minister, chief of staff of its armed forces and its army commander, died on Sunday at the King Hussein Medical City in Amman. He was 87. The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press reported. Marshal Majali b
 James Estes Baker, a former Foreign Service officer and the first black American diplomat posted to South Africa during apartheid, died on April 15 at Roosevelt Hospital in New York. He was 66 and lived in Sag Harbor, N.Y., and Greenwich Village. The cause was lung disease, said his
 James Parton, who was instrumental in the founding of American Heritage magazine and was its president and publisher for many years, died Friday in Hanover, N.H., where he lived. He was 88. Mr. Parton and some associates created the American Heritage Publishing Company in 1954 with 
 Lionel Abel, an Obie award-winning playwright, essayist, novelist and scholar, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 90. As a playwright Mr. Abel was perhaps best known for ''Absalom,'' one of his four works produced off Broadway. Telling of the aging King David's two-year struggle 
 ARNY-Robert Allen. Of Montclair, New Jersey. On April 24, 2001 at home. Predeceased by his wife Mary Travis Arny. Survived by his sister, Sarah Arny Holmes also three children: Dr. Thomas Arny, Mary K. Arny Reaske and Dr. Nancy Arny Pi-Sunyer, also three grandchildren and three great grandc
 BERTINI-Fulvio. On April 24, 2001 in Cortland, N.Y. Husband of Ann Vino Bertini. Father of Catherine Bertini, Executive Director of the U.N. World Food Program, Rome, Italy. Charles, musician and producer, Orlando, Florida, James, attorney, Denver, Colorado and Marianne Bertini, realtor, Co
 DREW-Leon. Husband of Sheila. Father of Gabrielle & Rob Cohen, Jennifer and George Stone, and Deena and Mark Pitzele. Brother of Roz Cohn and Shirley Sivik. Grandfather of Alex and Jason Cohen, Mitchell, Abigail, Lizzie Stone, Mollie and Scott Pitzele, & Zev Sonkin. Services ''BoulevardRive
 FALK-David J. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of NYC. Died peacefully on Tuesday, April 24th after a courageous battle with a lengthy illness. His humor and wisdom will be missed by all who knew him. Predeceased by his first wife, Selma, of 28 years, and the last survivor of five siblings: Irvi
 FISHER-Milton. Author, attorney, investment banker, and teacher, age 83, of Westport, CT., on April 23, 2001. Loving husband of Carol Fisher, devoted father of Shelley Fisher Fishkin and father-in-law of James Fishkin of Austin, TX., cherished brother of Mildred Hope Witkin Radovich of West
 FUERSTEIN-Saul. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Saul Fuerstein, who retired in 1988 as Chief Preparator after 36 years with the Museum. His dedication to the care and preservation of the Guggenheim's collection for over three 
 GALLET-Jeffry. American Jewish Congress Met Council mourns the loss our Past-President. He did justice, loved mercy, and walked humbly with his God. Michael Nussbaum, Co-President Trudy L. Mason, Co-Chair       
 HAZAN-Isaac M. (Freddie). Of Lawrence, New York. Beloved husband of the late Lillie. Devoted father of Aaron, Victor, Larry, and the late Michael. Father-inlaw of Pearl, Donna, Susan, and Maxine. Adored grandfather of Fred S. and Glynnis Hazan, Leslie Hazan, Louis and Joyce Hazan, Freddie A
 JONES-Charles E. We are saddened by the loss of the eloquent and charming Charles E. Jones. We will greatly miss the music, talent and grace of this extraordinary man. He is survived by his wife, Jill Axthelm, his sister, Dorothy Kester, his stepdaughter, Megan and her husband J.B. Brown an
 LACK-Eve. The Officers, Directors, and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend heartfelt sympathy to Senator James J. Lack on the passing of his mother. Senator Lack is a longtime friend of Gurwin and a devoted advocate on behalf of the elderly. Our condolences to the family. Alf
 LEVINE-Laurence W. On April 24, 2001. A distinguished Manhattan attorney and diplomat. Loving brother of Susan and Eric Kane and Jay and Sandra Levine. Dear uncle of Russell Kane, Beth Feldman, Lesley Logue, Michael and Jim Levine. Great-uncle of Molly Feldman, Emily and Jacob Levine. Servi
 RAMIREZ-Hector. Of New York City, on April 21, 2001. Beloved son of Hector A. & Agustina Ramirez, loving brother of Niurka and Elizabeth Ramirez, & proud uncle of Melissa Lopez. Devoted husband of Cristina Ramirez. Hec was an artist. A dedicated friend & guiding spirit to all those who had 
 STARER-Robert. The members of the Brooklyn College community mourn the passing of Robert Starer, Distinguished Professor of Music Emeritus who inspired students and colleagues for many years. As a renowned composer, dedicated teacher, and tireless mentor, his influence will be felt by gener
 SHAPIRO-Martin Max. We love him and miss him. Miriam Rapaport Shapiro Ellen Shapiro Passage Steve Passage       
 Dr. John Marmion Edmond, a marine geochemist who examined the ecology of the oceans and the world's great rivers, died on April 10 at his home in Boston. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, said the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a professor of marine chemi
 The Rev. Leon H. Sullivan, the clergyman and civil rights leader who drew up the Sullivan Principles, guidelines for American businesses operating in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 78. The cause was leukemia, his family said. In 1977
 ARNY-Robert Allen. Of Montclair, New Jersey. On April 24, 2001 at home. Predeceased by his wife Mary Travis Arny. Survived by his sister, Sarah Arny Holmes also three children: Dr. Thomas Arny, Mary K. Arny Reaske and Dr. Nancy Arny Pi-Sunyer, also three grandchildren and three great grandc
 BENDINER-William Paul. Born in New York (1943), grew up in Huntington, Long Island. He devoted his life to oceanography, taking part in Pacific expeditions. Survived by his parents, Robert and Kas Bendiner; brother, Dave; sister, Peg; companion, Doug Morgenson. Lovingly remembered by all wh
 DECOSSE-Jerome J., M.D., PhD. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Weill Medical College of Cornell University and New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of our distinguished colleague Dr. Jerome J. DeCosse. Dr. DeCosse was the first holder of the Medical College's Lewis Thomas Unive
 DREW-Leon. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Leon Drew, a longtime supporter of our mission. As charity chairman at the Woodmere Club, Leon worked tirelessly on behalf of people in need on Long Island and throughout the worl
 FAGENSON-Bertram F. Dearly beloved husband of Josephine for 64 years; loving father of Toby and Robert; devoted grandfather of Stephanie & Jennifer. Services are today, Thursday, at 1 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 81st St. and Madison Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to New Yo
 FEUER-Alex, 71. Of Clifton, NJ on April 23, 2001. Holocaust survivor. Beloved husband of Sylvia Feldman. Devoted father of Kevin, Robert, Karyn Liss and Laura Nelson. Father-in-law of Jon Liss and Dr. Lewis Nelson. Cherished grandfather of Daniel, Ilana, Adina, Joshua & Benjamin. His life w
 FREUDENHEIM - Abraham Z., M.D. Age 85, died peacefully on April 24, 2001. Loving father of Richard and Ellen, proud grandfather of Anna and David Wiener, dedicated husband to Judith and his deceased first wife, Zelma. Eldest son of immigrants, born in Watkins Glen, he attended medical schoo
 FUCHS-David. Died April 24, 2001 at the age of 79 after a valiant battle with colon cancer. Survived by his wife of 57 years, Shirley, a brother Abe and sister Florence.       
 GALLET-Jeffry H., Hon. The members and staff of Gallet Dreyer & Berkey, LLP deeply mourn the untimely passing of our co-founder, loyal friend & mentor. His professionalism and devotion to the principle that justice shall be dispensed in an evenhanded manner is a legacy to which we will rema
 HAMPTON-Philip M., who lived in New York City until 1996, former vice chairman of Bankers Trust Company, died on April 20, 2001 in Naples, Florida where he maintained a home. The cause of death was cancer. He was 68 years old. Mr. Hampton was born in Whittier, California and grew up in the 
 HYACINTH-Michael D. Beloved son of Brigida and Fernando, and brother of Stephanie, Mark and Mario. Died on April 24 after a brief illness. His family, friends and colleagues adored him. Michael started his fashion career as an illustrator for several designers. His best most exciting and cr
 LEVINE-Laurence W. On April 24, 2001. A distinguished Manhattan attorney and diplomat. Loving brother of Susan and Eric Kane and Jay and Sandra Levine. Dear uncle of Russell Kane, Beth Feldman, Lesley Logue, Michael and Jim Levine. Great-uncle of Molly Feldman, Emily and Jacob Levine. Servi
 O'CONNELL-Stephen. The Ardsley School District is saddened by the loss of a distinguished leader, Stephen O'Connell, beloved husband of Mary and devoted father of Matthew, Mark, Stephen and Michael. As Principal of both the Ardsley Middle and High Schools, he inspired students, teachers and
 PEARY-Dr. Joseph, 86. On April 24, 2001. Beloved husband of Laura. Devoted father of Gerald and Danny. Dear father-in-law of Suzanne Rafer. Cherished grandfather of Zoe. Brother-in-law of Paula and Tania and uncle of Marc. Loved by all who knew him. Memorial service on Thursday, 11:30AM at 
 Al Hibbler, the blind baritone singer who came to prominence with Duke Ellington's orchestra in the 1940's and then scored a hit with his version of the Alex North song ''Unchained Melody,'' died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Chicago. He was 85 and lived in Chicago. Mr. Hibbl
 Ben Wright, a former publisher of This Week magazine, died on April 10 at his home in Colorado Springs. He was 89. Mr. Wright joined the publication, a Sunday supplement syndicated to newspapers across the country, as executive vice president in 1959. He became publisher the next ye
 Charlie O'Hearn, a star in three sports at Yale in the 1920's and the school's oldest former football player, died April 19 in Naples, Fla. He was 99. Seventy-nine years after his 52-yard kick against Carnegie Tech on Sept. 30, 1922, it still stands as the longest drop-kicked field 
 Genji Ito, the resident composer for La MaMa E.T.C. since 1982 and a musical collaborator with many other groups, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 54. He died of cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, said Jonathan Slaff, a spokesman for La MaMa and Ubu Repertory Theat
 Jeffry H. Gallet, who overcame great learning disabilities to become a law school graduate, co-founder of a Manhattan law firm, housing law expert, author, family court judge and, finally, a member of the federal judiciary, died on April 20 in a Manhattan hospital. He was 58 and lived on th
 Ken Weston, who with Scott Millan and Bob Beemer won an Academy Award last month for best sound production on ''Gladiator,'' died on April 13 at his home in Wimbledon, in southwest London. He was 53. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Weston, who was highly regarded 
 Khalil Riad Rizk, a leading Asian art dealer and philanthropist, died yesterday in Salzburg, Austria. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from pancreatitis, according to Pierre Durand, his longtime partner. A consummate collector, scholar and tirele
 BAIM-Hyman. Died on April 24th, 2001. Much cherished husband, father and ''Poppy Hy'' to all those who knew him. He is irreplaceable. Father of Susan Kastin and the late Jerry Baim, father-inlaw of Joel Kastin, grandfather of Pamela (Matthew) Weinberg and Jonathon (Tami) Flaum, greatgrandfa
 DeCOSSE-Jerome J., MD. April 25, 2001. Distinguished surgeon and educator, beloved husband of Sheila Flynn DeCosse, concerned father of Stephen and his wife Satomi Degami, Carol, David, Philip and his wife Aissata and Sarah, loving grandfather of Margaret, Helene, Kathleen and Eugene, devot
 FAGENSON-Bertram F. Our deepest sympathy to the family of Bertram F. Fagenson. Having worked with, and for, him is something we will always remember and treasure. From his extended family at Fagenson and Co. and Starr Securities. Martin Vegh, Philip B. Pignato, Bruce Rund, Gerald Neuman and
 FUCHS-Sigmund. Sutton Place Synagogue records with sorrow the loss of our longtime member. Condolences to his beloved wife Yvette, brother Harvey and the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 LEVINE-Laurence W. The directors and staff of the Davis Mutual Funds mourn the sudden and untimely passing of their dear friend and esteemed director for 32 years. He had a distinguished career as a lawyer and diplomat. He was also a wise, and generous of time, counselor to us, our many tho
 PENKRAT-Peter Alexis. Formerly of Franklin Lakes, N.J. and Nyack, N.Y., died on Friday, April 20, 2001 of cancer. He was 69. An HVAC Designer Engineer, he was a pioneer in air conditioning design. Among the many examples of his creative & innovative work in Manhattan are buildings like the 
 RIZK-Khalil. With great sorrow, the Board of Directors, Artist Members and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center mourn the sudden loss of our friend and former Director Khalil Rizk. A man of generosity and consummate elegance, Khalil cherished fine art, adored beautiful music
 SILVER-David H. On April 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Mona. He will be missed by those who knew him. Service Friday, 9:30AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 Dr. Donald D. Dorfman, who blended his knowledge of mathematics, psychology and radiology to produce intricate models for analyzing a wide variety of data, including medical diagnoses, died on April 15  in Iowa City. He was 67. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said the Universi
 Hal Prieste, America's oldest Olympian and the oldest surviving Olympic medal winner in the world, died on April 19 at a nursing home in Camden, N.J. He was 104. Prieste won the bronze medal in platform diving at the 1920 Games in Antwerp, Belgium. He went on to a career in show bus
 ABELOFF-Michael. Left this world peacefully on April 26, 2001 at his home in the company of loved ones including his wife, Suzanne & two daughters, Shanna and Michelle. At age 62, loved by many, he completed his life's work with great strength and courage. For many years, Michael worked as 
 CASEY-James J. On Wednesday, April 25th, 2001, of Peapack, NJ. Age 86. Predeceased by his first wife, Ann Gambrill Casey. Survived by his wife, Claudia Prout Casey, his children, Anne H.C. van den Bergh, Edith Blair Casey, Richard Gambrill Casey, and five grandchildren. Mr. Casey was a grad
 COREN-Morton L. Died April 15. City College, class of 1937. Loving father, devoted husband. Widely renowned sales tax consultant for retail establishments. Exemplified the finest qualities in us all. Compassionate, understanding, supportive and generous. Loved his work, loved the opera. A m
 FELICIANO-Richard. Richard was a wonderful colleague of ours for many years. With his effortless smile and easy going manner, Richard was a pleasure to work with. Richard had a way of putting everyone at ease-even upset callers were soon soothed by Richard's friendly approach. We extend our
 LEVINE-Laurence W. The directors and staff of the Davis Mutual Funds mourn the sudden and untimely passing of their dear friend and esteemed director for 32 years. He had a distinguished career as a lawyer and diplomat. He was also a wise, and generous of time, counselor to us, our many tho
 MILLING-Lawrence B., 75, devoted and caring husband of Jean (Claster), adoring father of Leonard and Lynn, on April 26th. He served with the US Navy during World War II. He was a retired partner at the law firm of Otterbourg, Steindler, Houston and Rosen, P.C. in New York City. Services Sun
 RIZK-Khalil. It is with deepest sorrow that the Board of Directors and Officers of Venetian Heritage, Inc. mourn the premature death of their beloved President, Khalil Rizk. Khalil's enthusiasm for restoring beautiful monuments and works of art, his tireless ability to bring us new friends,
 Richard F. Tennien, an investigator who played a pivotal but largely unheralded role in efforts to dismantle mob control of the carting and construction industries in New York, died Monday. He was 65. Mr. Tennien had suffered a heart attack nine days earlier and died in a hospital i
 Richard McGee Morse, a historian who influenced the field of Latin American studies through his belief that the cultures of Ibero America could help Anglo America understand its own assumptions, died on April 17 in Pétionville, Haiti. He was 78. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, s
 Charles Schreiner III, who as he led a fight to preserve the legendary Texas longhorn breed became a Lone Star State symbol himself, died of congestive heart failure on April 22 at a San Antonio hospital. He was 74 and lived in Mountain Home, Tex. Known by the nickname Three
 Dan Lacy, a former executive of the McGraw-Hill Companies and a nationally recognized expert on copyright law, died on April 17 at a retirement home in Durham, N.C. He was 87. In 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Mr. Lacy to the National Advisory Commission on Libraries an
 ABELOFF-Michael. Left this world peacefully on April 26, 2001 at his home in the company of loved ones including his wife, Suzanne & two daughters, Shanna and Michelle. At age 62, loved by many, he completed his life's work with great strength and courage. For many years, Michael worked as 
 ARPIE-Reverend Msgr. Robert Andrew, April 20th, 2001. Beloved son of the late Andrew and Annie Arpie. Loving uncle of Richard & Catherine Cody and family, Andrew & Lisa Cody & family. Also survived by numerous cousins. Reposing at Frank E. CampbellThe Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81
 BOLTINOFF-Henry. 87. Of Lake Worth, FL. He was a well-known syndicated cartoonist best known for ''Stoker the Broker'' and ''Hocus-Pokus'' syndicated with King Features in over 300 newspapers around the world. Survived by daughter Bebe Davoli of Syracuse, NY and son Herb Boltinoff of Green 
 CASEY-James J. On Wednesday, April 25th, 2001, of Peapack, NJ. Age 86. Predeceased by his first wife, Ann Gambrill Casey. Survived by his wife, Claudia Prout Casey, his children, Anne H.C. van den Bergh, Edith Blair Casey, Richard Gambrill Casey, and five grandchildren. Mr. Casey was a grad
 COLIN-Seymour L. Born N.Y., N.Y. March 6, 1913. Died February 26, 2001. President, N.Y. State Trial Lawyers Association, 1971-1972. President, Metropolitan Trial Lawyers Association, 1981-1983. Member of New York State Bar Association, served on Executive Commitee of Trial Lawyers Section. 
 COREN-Morton L. Died April 15. City College, class of 1937. Loving father, devoted husband. Widely renowned sales tax consultant for retail establishments. Exemplified the finest qualities in us all. Compassionate, understanding, supportive and generous. Loved his work, loved the opera. A m
 DeCOSSE-Jerome J., MD. April 25, 2001. Distinguished surgeon and educator, beloved husband of Sheila Flynn DeCosse, concerned father of Stephen and his wife Satomi Degami, Carole, David, Philip and his wife Aissata, and Sarah, loving grandfather of Margaret, Helene, Kathleen and Eugene, dev
 GOODWIN-Harold. Died of cancer on April 11th at his home in Lyme, CT. at age 81. He served with the RCAF as a navigator in W.W. II. He was a mural, portrait & genre painter, & author-illustrator, teacher, and the first President of the Lyme Academy of Fine Arts. He is survived by his wife, 
 GUNST-Lee Sanders. Died at age 70, on April 27, 2001, after a courageous struggle against cancer. He loved his family, he loved his friends, he loved tennis and he loved life. He is survived by his loving companion Maryln Kimmel and his sister and brother-in-law Pat and Fred Hofmann. He was
 HOCHMAN-Jack. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and friend. Died Thursday, April 26, 2001 at the age of 79. A former manager of the ILGWU, Chairman of the Workmen's Circle Division of UJA/Federation, board member and one time chairman of the Workmen's Circle Home for the Aged, d
 JAGID-Bruce. On April 28, 2001. He was 61 years old. He is survived by his beloved wife Lillian. Devoted father to Jonathan, Jeffrey and Joshua. Dearest brother of Irene. Loving grandfather of Leo, Eliza and Nikki. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. For further information please
 MILLING-Lawrence B., 75, devoted and caring husband of Jean (Claster), adoring father of Leonard and Lynn, on April 26th. He served with the US Navy during World War II. He was a retired partner at the law firm of Otterbourg, Steindler, Houston and Rosen, P.C. in New York City. Services Sun
 MOSEN-Sarah Schiller, on April 26, 2001, age 96. Beloved wife of the late Adolph. Loving mother of Ellen Mosen James, of David and his wife Maryann and of the late Rose Mosen Klotz. Dear sister of Carl and Toby and sister-in-law of Lorraine and Lynn. Adoring grandmother of Adam Klotz, Benja
 POLISHUK-Sidney. On April 16. Former Assistant Finance Administrator of the City of New York. Retired after 43 years of dedicated service. Devoted to his family and Synagogue. He was a kind and generous man who will be sorely missed.       
 POWELL-Charles Gould. Died on April 20 at NY Hospital of complications arising from Lung Cancer; he was 72. Mr. Powell resided in NYC but has lived all over the world. In 1967 he opened what is arguably the first Pan-Asian restaurant in the USA in Wolfeboro, NH. Mr. Powell was a charming an
 RIZK-Khalil. It is with deepest sorrow that the Board of Directors and Officers of Venetian Heritage, Inc. mourn the premature death of their beloved President, Khalil Rizk. Khalil's enthusiasm for restoring beautiful monuments and works of art, his tireless ability to bring us new friends,
 Richard M. Scammon, an influential political scientist and elections analyst who had the ear of politicians and journalists in the turbulent 1960's and 70's, died Friday in a retirement community in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 85. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his daughter, A
 Dr. Jerome J. DeCosse, a surgeon renowned as an expert on colorectal cancer, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. He had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said. Dr. DeCosse worked at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer C
 Leroy Ingles, the first chief petty officer on the Navy's first nuclear-powered submarine, the Nautilus, died on April 12 in a nursing home in Olympia, Wash. He was 84. He died of asbestosis, his wife, Wynona, said. As chief of boat, Mr. Ingles was assistant to the Nautilus'
 BRIESS-Roger. On April 25. Beloved husband of Monica. Loving and devoted father of Colin and Craig. A true gentleman of tremendous integrity and honor. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him, especially, Zoroaster and Gobi. Friends may visit Tuesday, 4-8 PM, at Frank E. Camp
 CASEY-James J. On Wednesday, April 25th, 2001, of Peapack, NJ. Age 86. Predeceased by his first wife, Ann Gambrill Casey. Survived by his wife, Claudia Prout Casey, his children, Anne H.C. van den Bergh, Edith Blair Casey, Richard Gambrill Casey, and five grandchildren. Mr. Casey was a grad
 GUNST-Lee S. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing on April 27 of our fellow member, Lee Gunst, and extend condolences to his family. Paul N. Gardner, President       
 KELEN-Cantor Tibor. The Rabbi, Officers, Board of Trustess and members of Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst express their deepest sympathy on the tragic passing of its beloved Hazzan. His genuine piety and humility, combined with his extraordinarily powerful voice, inspired our congregation to p
 KLASS-Morton. On April 28, 2001, at home. Age 73. Beloved husband of Sheila Solomon for 48 years. Beloved father of Perri, David and Judy. Beloved grandfather of Orlando, Josephine, Anatol, and Gabriel. Professor of Anthropology at Barnard and Columbia for 30 years. In the 1980s he was Dire
 KLEIN-Rev. Msgr. Charles R. On April 27, 2001. Associate Pastor for 25 years at St. John the Evangelist Church in White Plains and for the last 10 years, Director of Our Lady of Consolation Residence for Retired Priests in Riverdale. Loving brother of Anne E., and Robert and his wife Nancy.
 MODELL-Michael S. Beloved husband of Abby. Adored father of Alex, Andrew and Ashley. Cherished son of Bill and Shelby Modell. Precious brother of Leslie Modell and Mitchell and Robin Modell. Adored uncle of Shawn, Melissa, Brittany and Ashley Modell. Devoted brother-in-law of Audrey and Irv
 SWIRSKY-Philip. Monroe Township, NJ, 87, Friday, at the New Jersey Veterans Memorial Home at Menlo Park, NJ. Born in Poland, he resided in Brooklyn, NY, before moving to Bayonne, NJ. In the late 1970s he and his wife moved to the Clearbrook Community where he currently resided. Mr. Swirsky 
 Richard M. Scammon, an influential political scientist and elections analyst who had the ear of politicians and journalists in the turbulent 1960's and 70's, died Friday in a retirement community in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 85. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his daughter, A
