 Fay Alexander, who soared to stardom as one of the few trapeze artists to execute a triple somersault and who performed the aerial maneuvers for movie characters played by Tony Curtis, Doris Day and others, died on July 16 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 75. The cause w
 Harry Paster, who rose from a $60-a-week statistician to become a valued adviser to the most rich and powerful executives of Madison Avenue, died on Tuesday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was cancer, according to John Wolfe, senior vice president at the America
 Brian MacRae, who for 15 years was the Queen of England's personal bagpiper, died on Sept. 3. He was 58. The cause was a heart attack while he was on vacation in France, The Times of London said. Pipe-Major MacRae's principal duty, starting at precisely 9 a.m., was to play f
 George M. Rood, a staff editor at The New York Times for 38 years, died of cancer on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Rood joined The Times in 1962 as an editor in financial news. He was named chief of the department's copy desk in 196
 John Espey, a writer and teacher whose first books were devoted to his childhood in China, died on Sept. 26 in Los Angeles. He was 87. Mr. Espey, the son of a Presbyterian missionary, was born and raised in Shanghai. He began writing about his youthful experiences in ''Minor Heresie
 Reggie Kray, the last survivor of the three-brother gang of ruthless enforcers with Cockney accents who ran London's underworld in the 1950's and 1960's while gaining reputations as smart-suited escorts to the show business set and Robin Hood figures in their old neighborhood, died Sunday i
 Ruddick C. Lawrence, a former vice president for public relations at the New York Stock Exchange and chairman of the board of Sarah Lawrence College, died Saturday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 88. During his 15-year tenure at the stock exchange, starting in 1953, he direct
 John T. Patterson Jr., who founded a development corporation that helped lure both businesses and capital to the struggling South Bronx of the 1970's, died Sept. 26 near Munich. He was 72. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Jodie Patterson Becker. Mr. Patters
 Dr. Malcolm C. Todd, a former president of the American Medical Association who helped develop a precursor of the Medicare program, died on Monday at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center in California. He was 87. In the late 1940's, as a consultant to the Navy, he collaborated with Ad
 Nick Fatool, a swing-era drummer who played with many of the most popular big bands in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sept. 26 in Los Angeles. He was 85 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Fatool may be best known for his participation in the Benny Goodman Sextet sessions of the late 1930's
 Robert Allen, the composer of songs that included ''Chances Are,'' ''Moments to Remember'' and ''Home for the Holidays,'' died on Sunday at his home in Quogue, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was colon cancer, his family said. Mr. Allen's songs were performed by Johnny Mathis, Tony Bennet
 Benjamin Orr, a bassist, vocalist and founding member of the rock group the Cars, died on Tuesday in his home in Atlanta. He was 53. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Billy Johnson, who manages Big People, an Atlanta band for which Mr. Orr played bass. Born Benjamin Orze
 Dr. Eugene Borowitz, a psychiatrist who had a key role in developing the anonymous system that the MacArthur Fellows Program uses to identify potential recipients of its stipends known informally as ''genius grants,'' died on Tuesday in a hospital in Chicago. He was 71 and lived in Chicago.
 Michael Smith, who shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing one of the basic tools of genetic engineering, died on Wednesday at Vancouver General Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the University of British
 Art Athens, a veteran New York radio correspondent and host whose broadcasts sometimes made the news as well as reported it, died yesterday near his home in Hudson, N.Y. He was 61. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Victoria. As host of ''Ask the Governor'' and ''A
 William J. Kennedy, the president of the printing pressmen's union who led an 88-day strike against New York City's three major newspapers in 1978, died on Wednesday at North Shore University Hospital in Plainview, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Dix Hills, N.Y. The cause was congestive
 William P. Bundy, who under three presidents was a central figure in Vietnam policy and who ultimately concluded that the war was ''a tragedy waiting to happen,'' died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 83. A family friend, Harry McPherson, said he died of heart trouble
 Dennis Sandole, a jazz guitarist and legendary teacher whose students included John Coltrane, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 87. Mr. Sandole was 19 when he taught himself to play the guitar; his older brother, Adolph, taught himself the baritone saxophone. They
 Joseph F. Haas, an Atlanta lawyer who played an important role in the Voter Education Project, which encouraged blacks across the South to register to vote in the 1960's, 1970's and 1980's, died on Tuesday in Atlanta. He was 89 and lived in Atlanta. The Voter Education Project, whic
 Saburo Sakai, a Japanese fighter pilot in World War II who said he shot down 64 Allied planes, including one of each type the United States flew, but who later befriended the Americans he once fought, died in Tokyo on Sept. 22. He was 84. Mr. Sakai was dining with American military 
 Sidney R. Yates, a congressman from Chicago for nearly half a century who battled  for government support for the arts, died on Thursday at a hospital here. He was 91. Mr. Yates lived in Washington after retiring from the House of Representatives two years ago. In 24 terms, he built
 Dr. Joseph Weber, a pioneer in two important fields of 20th-century physics, lasers and the search for waves in the fabric of space predicted by Einstein, died Sept. 30 in a hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 81. The cause was side effects of treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a form
 Charles B. Yates, a banker, businessman and former New Jersey legislator who was a proponent of campaign finance reform and a supporter of stricter ethical rules for elected officials, died on Friday in an airplane crash in Massachusetts. He was 61. Mr. Yates, a pilot for more than 
 John T. Connor, who was Commerce Secretary under Lyndon B. Johnson and the chief executive of two major corporations, died of blood cancer on Friday at a hospital in Boston, said his wife, Mary. He was 85. Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Connor had held the top job at the pharmaceutical co
 Morton A. Zolotow, a theater manager who administered the backstage traffic at some of the nation's grandest auditoriums, died on Sept. 15 at a hospital in Chicago. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Kathy Zolotow, his wife. Mr. Zolotow, a native New Yorker, gr
 Willard Bascom, an engineer and scientist fascinated by the sea who supervised pioneering deep-sea exploration in the 1960's, died on Sept. 20 at his home in San Diego. He was 83. His death stemmed from injuries in a car accident, his family said. From 1960 to 1962, Mr. Basc
 Representative Bruce F. Vento of Minnesota, a Democrat who championed environmental causes and bank reform during 12 terms in Congress, died today at his home in St. Paul, three days after his 60th birthday. Mr. Vento had been suffering in recent months from mesothelioma, a form of 
 Wojciech Has, a prize-winning Polish filmmaker whose best-known work, a black-and-white surrealist epic called ''The Saragossa Manuscript,'' acquired a cult following when it was released in the United States in 1965, died on Oct. 3 in Lodz, Poland. He was 75. He suffered from diabe
 David Dukes, a veteran television, film and stage actor who won critical acclaim for his performance as a homosexual persecuted by the Nazis in the Broadway production of ''Bent,'' died on Monday in Spanaway, Wash., near Tacoma. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was a he
 Donald Dewar, a lifelong Labor politician whose devotion to greater power for Scotland was rewarded in 1999 when he became first minister of the first Scottish Parliament in almost 300 years, died of a brain hemorrhage today at a hospital in Edinburgh, aides said. He was 63. Mr. Dew
 He called it his ''cross-country schizophrenic odyssey,'' 32 years spent in state hospital wards, homeless shelters and halfway houses from New York to San Francisco, the passage of time obscured in a haze of psychosis, and the sedation brought on by the powerful drugs once used to treat it
 Charles Hartshorne, a philosopher, theologian and educator who wrote more than 20 books and 100 articles in a lifelong mission to prove that God was a participant in cosmic evolution rather than the supreme composer, died on Tuesday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 103. Dr. Hartsh
 Dr. Hendrik B. G. Casimir, a leading theorist of quantum mechanics, has died at age 90. He died May 4 in the Dutch town of Heeze; his death was reported in a recent issue of the magazine Physics Today, a publication of the American Institute of Physics. He is best known for 
 Col. Pat Porteous, who as a captain in the British commandos received the Victoria Cross, the British Commonwealth's highest award for valor, for leading a bayonet charge on a major German gun battery during the Dieppe raid in World War II, died Monday. He was 82. During the early m
 Emile Kuri, an Oscar-winning set decorator who also contributed designs to Disneyland and Walt Disney World, died on Tuesday at the Motion Picture Country Home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 93. Mr. Kuri won two Academy Awards for set decoration, the first for William Wyler's 1949
 Leslie Kish, an authority on scientific population sampling who predicted President Harry S. Truman's upset victory over Thomas E. Dewey in 1948, died on Oct. 7 in a hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 90 and lived in Ann Arbor. Professor Kish and the influence of his teachings ''fu
 Manuel Martin, a director and playwright who used theater to explore the Cuban experience in the United States, died on Sept. 28 in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, Arcadio Ruiz-Castellano. In the Hispanic-American the
 William Melville Farrell, a former reporter for The New York Times, died at a nursing home in Huntington, N.Y., on Sunday. He was 89. In his 47-year career at The Times, Mr. Farrell worked his way up from copy boy during his high school days to writing guest columns to covering the 
 Daniel H. Lavezzo Jr., who for more than half a century as an owner of P. J. Clarke's saloon offered patrons from ironworkers to movie stars the comforts of cold beer, a dark refuge and juicy hamburgers, died of heart failure Tuesday at his Manhattan home. He was 83. Clarke's, on Th
 Frank J. Prial II, publisher of The Chief, a newspaper for government workers in New York City, died Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 80 and lived in Greenwich. The cause was pulmonary failure, his family said. Mr. Prial's grandfather, Frank J. Prial, bought the 
 Gregory Christopher Reynolds, a dancer and choreographer, died on Sept. 21 at New York University Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Reynolds died after a long illness, his sister Jean said. Born in Washington, Mr. Reynolds graduated from S
 Peter Turgeon, an actor, writer and director, died on Oct. 6 at the Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook. He was 80 and lived in Amagansett, N.Y. Mr. Turgeon began his theatrical career in 1940, playing one of the Day family children in a touring production of ''Life With 
 Kellis E. Parker, one of five black students who integrated the University of North Carolina four decades ago and went on to become the first black law professor at Columbia University, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause of death 
 Vincent Canby, whose lively wit and sophisticated tastes illuminated film and theater reviews in The New York Times for more than 35 years, died yesterday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in New York. The cause was cancer. In an era of en
 Archbishop Joseph T. Ryan, who was the spiritual leader for more than two million Roman Catholics as the first archbishop of the Archdiocese for the Military Services, died Oct. 9 in Albany. He was 86 and lived in Albany. In 1985, Pope John Paul II appointed Archbishop Ryan to lead 
 Britt Woodman, a trombonist who was an important member of Duke Ellington's band during the 1950's and an early associate of Charles Mingus, died on Friday at the Robert F. Kennedy Medical Center in Hawthorne, Calif. He was 80 and lived in Los Angeles. Proper training is obvious in 
 Theodore M. Berry, a civil rights leader who became Cincinnati's first black mayor after serving as a high official in President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, died Sunday at a nursing home in Loveland, a Cincinnati suburb. He was 94. Mr. Berry fought for racial equality as a c
 Bruce Palmer Jr., deputy commanding general of American troops in South Vietnam, later Army vice chief of staff and then the author of a book analyzing the military failure of the United States in Southeast Asia, died on Oct. 10 at a hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 87. General Pa
 Dr. Konrad E. Bloch, who won a Nobel Prize for explaining how cholesterol is formed in the body, died Sunday at the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass. He was 88 and lived in Lexington, Mass. When Dr. Bloch won the Nobel, in 1964, the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, which chooses the 
 In recent years, supporters of Gov. Mel Carnahan of Missouri had taken to wearing gold lapel pins shaped like straight arrows. The symbolism was clear: Mr. Carnahan's dominant characteristic as a politician was his reputation for being clean and on the level. He was not a scintillat
 Cardinal Pietro Palazzini, a retired Vatican official who was honored by Israel for rescuing an Italian Jew in the Holocaust, died in Rome last Wednesday. He was 88. Pope John Paul II delivered the eulogy on Friday at Cardinal Palazzini's funeral at St. Peter's, recalling his role i
 Sam O'Steen, a film editor whose work brought him three Academy Award nominations, died on Wednesday in Atlantic City. He was 76 and lived in New York. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Kathleen. Mr. O'Steen became fascinated with filmmaking as a boy growing up
 Thomas G. Labrecque, the former chairman and chief executive of the Chase Manhattan Corporation, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Mr. Labrecque died of lung cancer, which was diagnosed in early September, a spokesman for his family said. He was 62 a
 Harry Cooper, the hard-luck Hall of Fame golfer who had 31 victories on the PGA Tour in the 1920's and 1930's but never won any of what are now considered the four major tournaments, died yesterday at White Plains Hospital. He was 96. Cooper's 31 triumphs share 13th place on the PGA
 Whitman Hobbs, an advertising agency executive and columnist whose voice was heard interviewing advertisers in television and radio commercials that he created for The New Yorker in the 1970's, died on Oct. 8 in Bradenton, Fla. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, according to hi
 Art Coulter, one of the National Hockey League's top defensemen of the 1930's, the captain of the Rangers' 1940 Stanley Cup championship team and a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame, died Saturday in Mobile, Ala. He was 91. An outstanding puck-handler and a durable player, Coulter w
 Arthur M. Goldberg, who parlayed a small stake in a struggling gambling company into control of the nation's largest casino operator, died yesterday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 58. The cause was complications from bone marrow failure, according to Michael W. Kempn
 David Golub, a pianist and conductor, who was seen as Isaac Stern's accompanist in the 1979 film ''From Mao to Mozart'' and who performed regularly with several chamber ensembles, most notably the Golub-Kaplan-Carr Trio, died on Monday at his home in Milan. He was 50 and lived in Milan and 
 John Worsley, a British artist who as a prisoner of the Germans in World War II hoodwinked guards with a dummy P.O.W. named Albert, later a part of British wartime lore, died Oct. 3 in London. He was 81. Soon after Britain went to war, Kenneth Clark, director of the National Gallery
 Willie Cook, a lyrical lead trumpeter with a soft tone who played in big bands led by Jay McShann, Earl Hines, Dizzy Gillespie and Duke Ellington, died on Sept. 22 in Stockholm. He was 76. He died of heart failure at Maria Regina Hospice in Stockholm, his son Wambi said. Mr.
 Melvin A. Cook, an explosives expert whose innovations helped change the face of warfare and mining, died on Oct. 12 in Salt Lake City. He was 89. When Dr. Cook was studying chemistry in the Yale graduate program in the 1930's, he had no interest in the field of explosives, said one
 Zeke Manners, once a popular hillbilly singer and disc jockey and the composer of ''The Pennsylvania Polka,'' among hundreds of other songs, died on Oct. 14 in Los Angeles. He was 89 and lived in West Hollywood. His initial fame came from a publicity ploy in 1930 during the Depressi
 Mitchell Sviridoff, a national leader in urban social policy and philanthropy who played an important role over three decades in developing strategies for lifting people out of poverty and reviving decaying neighborhoods, died early Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 81. The ca
 Frankie Crocker, a veteran radio broadcaster and program director who helped catapult WBLS-FM, the black-music format radio station, to the No. 1 spot among listeners ages  18 to 34 in New York City twice in the last three decades, died Saturday of pancreatic cancer. His age was uncertain. 
 Robert Harris Chapman, a retired teacher of English and drama at Harvard University and a co-author of the stage version of Herman Melville's ''Billy Budd,'' died on Sept. 27 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 81 and lived in Fort Lauderdale. Mr. Chapman joined the Harvard facu
 Robert Lax, an American minimalist poet who was praised for his originality and spirituality, died on Sept. 26 at his family's home in Olean, N.Y. He was 84. Mr. Lax moved back to Olean last month after living abroad for more than 30 years, most recently on the Greek island of Patmo
 Charles Perkins, a campaigner for the rights of Aborigines who was sometimes described as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. of Australia, died last Wednesday in Sydney. He was 64. The cause was kidney failure, his family said. The 390,000 Aborigines today are considerably 
 The Rev. Luigi Marinelli, a retired monsignor who ran afoul of the Vatican when he published a best-selling expose on church intrigue, died of liver and bone cancer on Monday, his nephew said. He was 73. Monsignor Marinelli, who worked at the Vatican for 45 years, was summoned to ap
 Perry W. Gilbert, a noted biologist and a leading defender of one of nature's most reviled creatures, the shark, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87. Dr. Gilbert was working as a comparative anatomy professor at Cornell University in the 1930's, overseeing studen
 The Very Rev. Thomas R. Peterson, a former chancellor and president of Seton Hall University who played a major role in its fund-raising, died on Sunday at a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I. He was 71. Father Peterson was chancellor and president of Seton Hall from 1990 to 1996
 Charles Rembar, who fought and won some of the most important censorship cases in American law, died Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 85. Mr. Rembar defended the publishers of ''Lady Chatterley's Lover,'' ''Tropic of Cancer'' and ''John Cleland's Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure,'' better
 Donald S. Slaiman, a labor union official who worked to get unions more involved in the civil rights movement and rose high in the A.F.L.-C.I.O., died on Tuesday at a hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 81 and lived in Washington. The cause was kidney and heart failure said his son G
 Dr. Dirk Jan Struik, a prolific historian of mathematics who taught at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1926 to 1960, died on Saturday at his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 106. Born in the Netherlands, Dr. Struik (pronounced stroyk) traced his interest in the history o
 Martin Rich, a conductor who enjoyed a 26-year association with the Metropolitan Opera and who worked alongside such eminent conductors as Herbert von Karajan, Bruno Walter and William Steinberg in music festivals around the world, died on Monday in New York. He was 95 and just the previous
 Dr. Ramzi S. Cotran, an internationally recognized pathologist who helped transform a small clinical program in Boston into one of his profession's premier training grounds, died on Monday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said Brigham and Women's Hosp
 Harry Cooke Cushing IV, an investor and polo player, died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived on the Upper East Side in his final years. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Cushing was the son of Harry Cooke Cushing III
 John Abbott, an art dealer and curator, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center in New York. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver failure, said Rob Wynne, an artist and friend. Mr. Abbott was born in Allegheny, Pa. In 1966, during his last year at the St.
 Leo Nomellini, the Hall of Fame tackle of the San Francisco 49ers who was renowned for strength and endurance in a National Football League career spanning 14 seasons and 174 consecutive games, died Oct. 17 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications of a stroke, his 
 Vern Wolfe, a celebrated track coach for a third of a century and an early exponent of weight training in his sport, died on Wednesday in a hospice in Vista, Calif. He was 78. The cause was complications from a broken hip, his wife, Marilyn, said. The Wolfes had been married for 53 
 Charles J. Gussman, who brought delightfully tangled plots, addictively picturesque characters and heaping doses of steamy romance to soap operas he wrote for radio and television, died on Oct. 18. He was 87 and lived on a farm in Holland, Pa. Mr. Gussman was a master of a genre tha
 Don Brooks, a harmonica player who recorded widely as a studio musician in New York City, died of leukemia Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan, said his widow, Anne. He was 53 and lived in Greenwich Village. Mr. Brooks grew up in Texas and took up the harmonica after he
 William T. Hurtz, a founder of the trendsetting United Productions of America animation studio, whose career stretched from Walt Disney in the 1930's to ''Rugrats'' in the 1990's, with stops in between for Mr. Magoo, George of the Jungle and Cap'n Crunch, died Oct. 14 at his home in Van Nuy
 Don Brooks, a harmonica player who recorded widely as a studio musician in New York City, died of leukemia Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan, said his widow, Anne. He was 53 and lived in Greenwich Village. Mr. Brooks grew up in Texas and took up the harmonica after he
 Dr. John E. Ultmann, a cancer expert who advanced doctors' understanding of how treatment should vary with the stage of the disease, died Oct. 23 at his home in Hyde Park, Ill. He was 75. The cause was complications from lymphoma, one of his specialties, according to the University 
 Dr. Robert I. Levy, a former director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute whose research helped link cholesterol levels with heart disease, died of pancreatic cancer on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in Morristown, N.J.        
 Thomas King, whose early research in frog embryos foreshadowed the cloning of sheep and other mammals decades later, died last Wednesday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 79 and lived in Alexandria, Va. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. King retired in 
 Walter Berry, an Austrian bass-baritone who was renowned for his lithe, richly toned interpretations of the German operatic and song repertory, died on Friday at his home in Vienna. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, the Associated Press reported. Mr. Berry was born in
