 AVERY-David Wainwright. On May 18, 2000 of Essex, CT died after a short illness. He was 83 years old. A tall man with a big heart, he was devoted to his family and his church and was blessed with the gifts of song and laughter. Dave Avery was born on his family's farm in Aurora, NY on Decem
 BERSON-Paul Arthur, 68, passed away on Monday May 29, 2000. Loving husband of Selma, adoring father of Beth and Lois, devoted zaidy to his 18 grandchildren, Paul was the retired president and chief executive officer of B & B Motor & Control Corp., Long Island City, NY. He is also survived b
 EISMAN-Stan, on May 31, 2000. Beloved husband of Joyce Portnoy Eisman, devoted father of Gregory and Liana, cherished son of Reba and Gabriel Eisman, loving brother of Sue, Carol and Al Eisman and families. Avid jazz fan, artisan, gourmet cook, hiker and biker, and lover of life, his gentle
 FRYER-Robert S. November 18, 1920-May 28, 2000. The Producer Circle mourns the loss of our cherished colleague, the esteemed film and theatrical producer, whose films include The Boston Strangler, The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, Travels With My Aunt, and The Boys From Brazil; and original Br
 FURST-Sidney S., M.D. The members of the Westchester Psychoanalytic Society mourn the passing of their esteemed colleague and extend their deepest sympathy to his family. Arthur Lew, M.D., President       
 LITSKY-Leon. Our deepest sympathies to our son-in-law, Michael, our daughter, Denise, and grandchildren, Sage and Morgan, on the loss of Leon Litsky, a devoted friend, husband, father and grandfather. He will be missed by all of us who knew him and loved him. Marilyn and Ben Ossman 
 PANKEN-Irving J. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend, died peacefully at home on May 29, 2000 after a long illness. He leaves behind his wife Ethel, daughters Wendy and Kathy, her husband Andy, son Eric and his wife Michelle, and five grandchildren Ben, Becky, Evan, Adam and Dan
 SACKS-Dr. Michael R. May 30. He is survived by his wife, Barbara of New York and East Hampton, two children and six grandchildren of Paris, France. Services will be private. In lieu of flowers, friends may make a contribution to their favorite charity.       
 SUNSHINE-Albert A., Dr. Age 78, died May 30, 2000 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Victoria, devoted father of Randi Sunshine of Los Angeles, CA, and Dr. William Sunshine of Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by two sisters, Naomi Trigg of Stony Brook, NY and Caryl Hillelson of Pittsburgh,
 TAYLOR-Samuel. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of Dramatists Play Service mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend. Sam was President and Chairman of the Board of the play service for over twenty years. We will miss his artistic and business acumen and his counsel. 
 Tex BenekeTex Beneke, the tenor saxophone player and vocalist with the Glenn Miller Orchestra who sang one of its most famous hits, ''Chattanooga Choo Choo,'' and led the band after Miller's plane disappeared in World War II, died on Tuesday at a convalescent home in Costa Mesa, Calif. He w
 Thomas J. Skutt, a retired chairman of the Mutual of Omaha Companies, died on Monday at Methodist Hospital in Omaha. He was 69 and lived in Omaha. He suffered a cerebral hemorrhage, said Jim Nolan, a spokesman for Mutual of Omaha, the big insurance company. Mr. Skutt, who jo
 BELL-George Irving, died on May 28th, 2000, from leukemia complications following routine surgery. George was born August 4, 1926, in Evanston, Illiois. He received a BS in Physics from Harvard University in 1947 and a PhD in Theoretical Physics from Cornell University in 1951, where he stu
 DORSKY-Morris. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Morris Dorsky, professor emeritus and former chairperson of the Department of Art. His forty-one years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Christoph M. Kimmich, President Brooklyn College DORSKY-Morris.
 FORD-Milton Kent III. Suddenly on May 31, 2000. Survived by his family, his innumerable friends and his colleagues in the fashion industry to which he contributed so much. His was a life worth celebrating. Memorial service at St. Luke's in the Fields, 487 Hudson St., on a date to be announc
 FRYER-Robert S. November 18, 1920-May 28, 2000. The Producer Circle mourns the loss of our cherished colleague, the esteemed film and theatrical producer, whose films include The Boston Strangler, The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, Travels With My Aunt, and The Boys From Brazil; and original Br
 GOLDRING-Benjamin, 88, died April 17, 2000. After Columbia University Law School he joined the Abraham Lincoln Brigade in the Spanish Civil War where, in the first lines of the front lines, he was severely wounded four times. Also a veteran of the U.S. Army in WW II. After the war as civil 
 GROVES-Sidney on May 31, 2000 of Armonk, NY formally of Pleasantville. Mr. Groves was born in Brooklyn, NY on January 28, 1922 the son of Abraham and Bella Govshewitz. He was a 1946 graduate of Brooklyn College. Mr. Groves taught Business at Mohawk Community College. He was an active member
 HEIDEMAN-Marion. The conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations expresses condolences to our distinguished colleague Richard Heideman, President of B'nai B'rith, on the loss of his beloved mother. We pray that the family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and 
 KOHN-Dr. Richard Jay. 51, passed peacefully at home in Kensington, CA on May 28, 2000. Beloved husband of Marianne Betterly-Kohn and father of Jack. Richard directed Lord of the Dance/Destroyer of Illusion, a film on the Tibetan and Sherpa Buddhist ritual and festival in Nepal. He was found
 MacRAE-Cameron F. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae mourns with profound sorrow the death on our founding and name partner of May 29 in Hobe Sound, Florida. He was Senior Partner and Chairman of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae for many years, and set the mold for the national and international 
 MARSHALL-George. The Board and staff of the Adirondack Council note with sadness the passing of George Marshall on May 21, 2000 at age 96. He was a longtime conservationist and friend of the Adirondacks. With his brother Robert, he was one of the first three people to climb the 46 High Peak
 SHIELDS-James Francis, 75, on May 27, 2000, in Stamford, CT. Devoted son of the late Margaret Rose and Eugene W. Dear brother of Harry. Loving uncle of Andrew, Christopher, Georgene, Jennifer, Melissa, Patricia, Peggy Jane, Timothy and Victoria. Donations in his memory to the ASPCA.       
 WEIL-John A. Died May 29, 2000 in Fort Lauderdale, FL, of an embolism. He is survived by brother Kenneth M. Weil of Stamford, CT, sister Anne W. Weinberg of Cleveland, OH. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and Yale University with a degree in economics. He served on the Atomic Bomb 
 Time, which Tito Puente could make throb, pulsate, swivel, shake and finally, in the pounding rhythms of mambo, cross over from El Barrio in Harlem to the Palladium to the airwaves of America, caught up with the legendary band leader and percussionist late Wednesday night, when he died at t
 Donald F. Ephlin, the senior official of the United Automobile Workers union who negotiated the pioneering labor agreement that created the Saturn division of General Motors, died yesterday at his home in Dearborn Heights, Mich., a Detroit suburb. He was 74. One of Mr. Ephlin's sons
 Horace Busby Jr., a former White House aide and longtime associate of former President Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Santa Monica. The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Scott. Mr. Busby, a fellow 
 Oleg Yefremov, one of Russia's most revered actors and directors, heir to Konstantin Stanislavsky and chief of the  Moscow Art Theater for 30 years, died on May 24. He was 72. The cause was lung disease, newspapers here reported. The Moscow Art Theater was founded by Stanisl
 COHEN-Sanford (Sandy). On June 1, 2000. Married to his childhood sweetheart Kiki for 49 glorious years. Father to Howard, (Amy); Ivan, (Alice); Cindy Dolgin (Moti). Grandfather of Aylah, Yishai, Maxine, Yonatan, Maya, Leah and Abraham. Brother of Ruth Yanchuck. Devoted uncle and friend. Cur
 DiGIORGIO-Joe. Artist, friend, neighbor, loft pioneer, gracious host. We will miss him. His Friends and Neighbors       
 FRAZIER-Rev. Donald Hart Frazier, 88, of 1821 Mooring Line Dr., Vero Beach, FL., and Old Orchard Lane, East Marion, LI, NY, died May 31, 2000 at Eastern Long Island Memorial Hospital. He was the husband of Elizabeth Hart Frazier. He was born Oct. 18, 1911 in Forksville, PA, son of the late 
 LEE-John F., in his eighty-seventh year on June 1, 2000, of Westbury, NY formerly of Manhattan. Retired from New York Life Insurance Co. Beloved son of the late Patrick J. and Annie Lee. Adoring husband of the late Helen K. Lee. Devoted father of Dorrit, Barbara, and Cathleen. Proud grandfa
 RUDD-Irving, 82. Internationally known sports publicist passed away on June 2, 2000. Beloved and devoted husband for 57 years of Gertrude; A truly special father to Susan and Philip Cohen and Nanci and Ronald Marmer; Adored Grandfather of Jodi and Pete Sabal, Allison Marmer and Davina and T
 SARFATTI-Azaria, age 70, died after a long illness, June 1, 2000. Born October 23, 1929 in Salonica, Greece. Immigrated to the U. S. in 1956 with his mother and brother after suffering through the war years. Employed for 44 years at the firm of Isaac Hazan & Co. as the Production Manager. C
 Robert M. Fomon, who ran the E. F. Hutton & Company brokerage firm during its heyday and through the scandal that led to its takeover, died Wednesday at a hospital near his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75. Mr. Fomon, who retired as Hutton's chairman in 1987 after 35 years with th
 Donald W. Davies, who proposed a method for transmitting data that made the Internet possible, died Sunday at a hospice in Esher, England. He was 75 and had been suffering from cancer, according to a spokesman for the British National Physical Laboratory. Mr. Davies was a computer s
 Irving Rudd, a Runyonesque character who used wit and gimmickry to promote the Brooklyn Dodgers, Yonkers Raceway, Nathan's Famous and boxers like Muhammad Ali and Sugar Ray Leonard, died on Friday. He was 82. Mr. Rudd, a short, fast-talking raconteur, wore a tie clasp that was a 195
 John Coolidge, the son of President Calvin Coolidge and the oldest living offspring of an American president, died on Wednesday in Lebanon, N.H. He was 93. John Coolidge was a man of few words, like his father, and spent most of his working life in private industry, including establ
 Joseph A. Bailey, a Harlem lawyer and former assistant attorney general for New York State who challenged Adam Clayton Powell Jr. for his Congressional seat, died May 17 at North General Hospital in Harlem. He was 95 and lived in Washington Heights. A lifelong Republican, Mr. Bailey
 Merton H. Miller, a professor of finance who won the 1990 Nobel in economic science for helping develop theories that were used to evaluate the risks of individual investments, died yesterday at his home in Chicago. He was 77 and had been suffering from lymphoma, said Allan Friedman, a spok
 BROOKS-Harry A. Of Glen Head, LI, on June 2, 2000, age 87. Beloved husband of Helen M. (Holly). Father of Melissa Brooks Zakarian and Miranda Brooks Meyer. Stepfather of James R. Lowell, III and Howard B. Lowell; their spouses and seven grandchildren. Service St. John's of Lattingtown, Locu
 CALDERWOOD-Thomas Stewart. 56, died at home, May 31. Raised in New Hyde Park, he was the son of Margaret (Weir) and Thomas Calderwood, Sr. He was a graduate of Fairfield University and received a Master's Degree from the New School. He was the first American director of Oxfam America and ta
 GERSHEY-Simon C. (Cy), died at home on June 2, 2000. Son of a rabbi, born in Johnstown, PA on May 12, 1902, Cy raised himself up from poverty and abandonment to become a nationally known and respected leader of the jewelry industry. While his career included long and productive tenures with
 HUGHES-James M. Beloved husband of Catherine M. Hughes (nee; Enright.) Born in New York City, he was a graduate of City College of New York and St. John's University Law School. After admittance to the New York Bar he served as an Assistant Attorney General of the State of New York, assigne
 JOHNSON - Howard ''Stretch.'' Died May 28, 2000. A celebration of his life June 12, 2000, 7:30 PM, at St. Peter's Church, 619 Lexington Ave. and 54th St. ''His truth goes marching on.''       
 MacRAE-Cameron F. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae mourns with profound sorrow the death of our founding and name partner on May 29 in Hobe Sound, Florida. He was Senior Partner and Chairman of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae for many years, and set the mold for the national and international 
 PUENTE-Tito. The Hackley School Community is saddened by the death of legendary musician Tito Puente and offers its heartfelt condolences to his family. Few individuals have reached so many with such joyous influence. Jack M. Ferraro, President of the Board Walter C. Johnson, Headmaster    
 RUDD-Irving. 82. Internationally known sports publicist passed away on June 2, 2000. Beloved and devoted husband for 57 years of Gertrude; a truly special father to Susan and Philip Cohen and Nanci and Ronald Marmer; adored grandfather of Jodi and Pete Sabal, Allison Marmer and Davina and T
 SACKS-Michael, M.D. Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health extends deepest sympathy to the family of Dr. Michael Sacks. In his lifetime of dedication to the field of international public health, he was instrumental in global campaigns against smallpox, for the provision of primary healt
 SILBERSTEIN-Samuel. Of Munich, Germany, (originally of Warsaw, Poland). Died suddenly on May 30, 2000. Beloved husband of Luba. Dedicated father of Yankel, and grandfather of Benjamin and Joab. A survivor of the horrors of World War II, he rebuilt his life through much hard work and became 
 STONE-Theodore (Ted). We mourn, with his devoted son Michael and cousins Ted and Erica Braude, the loss of or our beloved friend, Ted Stone. His presence enriched our lives during more than 45 years in Croton. A memorial service will be held Sunday, June 25th, 12 Noon at Temple Israel of No
 SHEMO-Thomas E. of Somers, New York, died May 30th, 2000 at his home. He was 49 years old. Mr. Shemo was born November 11th, 1950 in Somerville, NJ to Thomas and Dorothy Shemo. He received his BA and MBA from Harvard. He was an Associate Partner with Andersen Consulting in New York, NY. He 
 Robert C. Bassett, a former lawyer, labor negotiator and publisher who represented small-business interests on the councils of two presidential administrations, died on May 2 in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 89. Mr. Bassett was born in Sturgeon Bay, Wis., on March 2, 1911. He ea
 Svyatoslav N. Fyodorov, a pioneering eye surgeon who was one of the Soviet Union's first practicing capitalists and a politician who ran for president of Russia in 1996, died on Friday in a helicopter crash outside of Moscow. He was 72. Dr. Fyodorov was returning from a ceremony mar
 William E. Simon, who directed the nation's energy policy and served as treasury secretary in the dark economic days of the 1970's and then proved to have a golden touch as an investor in the boom days of the 1980's, died yesterday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 72 and 
 Merton H. Miller, a Nobel award winner in economics whose passionate belief in free markets helped him to develop what are now widely recognized guidelines for valuing corporations, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 77. He died of lymphoma, from which he had suffered s
 Milo A. Speriglio, a tireless private detective with an unquenchable thirst for publicity and an obsession with the death of Marilyn Monroe, died April 30 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 62. He died of lung cancer, his wife, Patricia, said. Mr. Speriglio, the director of 
 BROOKS-Harry A. Of Glen Head, LI, on June 2, 2000, age 87. Beloved husband of Helen M. (Holly). Father of Melissa Brooks Zakarian and Miranda Brooks Meyer. Stepfather of James R. Lowell III and Howard B. Lowell; their spouses and seven grandchildren. He was in the class of 1935 at Princeton
 GOODY-Robert B. Professional engineer, 85, of Demarest, NJ, died on June 2, 2000. Loving husband of Helen. Beloved father of Barbara G. Katz (Joel Owen), Susan Rabbit Goody (John Oakley) and Nancy H. Goody (Gregory Bell). An electrical engineer, he loved boating, ham radio and motivating yo
 HUDIS-Dr. Morris Mac, of Monroe Township, NJ, formerly of Yonkers and Irvington, NY. Died peacefully after a long struggle on June 3, 2000. Son of the late Ida and Rafael Hudis. Born in the Bronx, NY. Beloved husband for 53 years of Dr. Ann Hudis, devoted father of Dr. Paula Hudis (Dr. Ira 
 MacRAE-Cameron F. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae mourns with profound sorrow the death of our founding and name partner on May 29 in Hobe Sound, Florida. He was Senior Partner and Chairman of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae for many years, and set the mold for the national and international 
 PUENTE-Tito. With the passing of Tito Puente, the worlds of latin, jazz and pop have lost a vital and joyous creative force for music and education. Tito's songs and recordings reflected his special musical genius and his life-affirming personality. Tito Puente's fellow ASCAP members join w
 SIMON-William E., on June 3, 2000, in Santa Barbara, CA, in his 73rd year. Beloved husband of Tonia Adams Simon. Devoted father of William E. Simon, Jr., J. Peter Simon, Mary Beth Simon Streep, Carol Leigh Simon Porges, Aimee Simon Bloom, Julie Ann Simon Munro and Johanna Katrina Simon Morr
 VANDERBILT-Hugh Bedford, Sr., of Greenwich, CT, Palm Beach, FL, and Devil Lake, Canada, died June 2, 2000, after a valiant battle with cancer. He was 79 years old. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, the youngest son of the late Robert Thurlow and Mildred Bedford Vanderbilt. He attended the Allen 
 CUFFE-Edward W. 2/16/36-6/5/96, NYC. Fall River Irishman in search of an original sin. He ran money like Rimbaud ran guns. As Dr. Johnson said of Garrick, ''His death eclipsed the gaiety of nations and impoverished the public stock of harmless pleasure.'' He is gone to where savage indignat
 William E. Simon, who directed the nation's energy policy and was treasury secretary in the dark economic days of the 1970's and then proved to have a golden touch as an investor in the boom days of the 1980's, died on Saturday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 72 and live
 Ellis Clary, the archetype of the baseball lifer who wisecracked his way through more than half a century in the game as a player, manager, coach and one of its best-known scouts, died last Friday in Valdosta, Ga. He was 85. ''I believe Ellis could make a dog laugh,'' Spud Chandler,
 John I. Millis, a former case officer with the Central Intelligence Agency who for the last three years served as the top staff member of the House Intelligence Committee, committed suicide on Sunday, the police and Congressional officials said today. He was 47 and lived in Vienna, Va.     
 Leonard Baskin, a figurative sculptor and graphic artist known whose work ranged from a Holocaust memorial to a prizewinning children's book but dealt mostly with the human condition in angst-ridden terms, died on Saturday evening in Northampton, Mass. He was 77 and lived in Northampton.   
 ASTROFF-Milton T., died at home on May 27, 2000, age 75. Survived by Millicent, his devoted wife of 55 years, his children, grandson, brother, nieces and nephews, many friends & colleagues. Cherished by all who knew him, he leaves a legacy of love, trust and support in our hearts.       
 BROOKS-Harry. The Metropolitan Opera mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Harry Brooks. A member of our advisory board for more than two decades, Harry Brooks gave dedicated and distinguished service to our company, especially as chairman for many years of the Met
 DULLEA-Jeff. A former member of the Board of Directors and Vice President of Penn South Social Services Inc., died on June 4, 2000. Jeff was an uncommon leader in the field of cooperative services. He was committed to a high level of service, care and concern for people based on cooperative
 FEDER-Dr. Daniel. Born December 28, 1909 in Norristown, PA. The son of Max and Fannie Feder, the eighth of 12 children, passed away peacefully at home surrounded by his family on June 4, 2000. A Commander in the U.S. Navy during W.W.II, he served with honor in his ship's dental, medical and
 FEDER-Samuel Lamie M.D. June 4, at his home in Lenox, MA. Survived by his wife Marie, son Michael, daughters Constance Williams and Elizabeth Barrell, son-inlaw Sankey Williams, daughter-inlaw Barbara Manocherian, grandchildren Elizabeth, Jenny, Alexandra, Samantha, Michael, David and Max. 
 FISHKIN-Jack. On Jun 4, 2000. Devoted father of Christopher. Beloved brother of Joan Bricker and brother-in-law of Daniel. Loving uncle of Mindy, Joshua, Janelle and Ronda. A highly respected and admired colleague to all those with whom he was associated with in the field of contract furnit
 GOLDBERG - William (Bill). Passed away on Saturday, June 3. He was a Senior Sales Executive in the comsumer electronics industry. He was survived by his wife Rosalie, children and grandchildren and was loved by all. Memorial service being held in Boca Raton, Fla. on Tuesday, June 6.       
 MALEY-Edward W., eighty-four, of Greenfield, MA. Died Monday June 5, 2000. He was a graduate of Holy Cross College in Worcester, MA, class of 1938. He was an executive of Mobil Oil International in the human resources division for over thirty-two years. Survivors include his sister, Dorothy
 POWERS-Charles A., retired Chairman of the Board of Powers Chemco, Inc. died Sunday, June 4, 2000 at his home in Vero Beach, Florida. Services will be held Wednesday in Vero Beach, Florida.       
 SIMON-William E. The Board of Directors of Delta Kappa Epsilon International Fraternity, the Trustees of the Rampant Lion Foundation and all the DKE Family mourn the loss of their esteemed brother and friend William E. Simon. His wisdom and dedication to his Fraternity and his dedication to
 SUSSMAN-Roslyn. Our profound sympathies are extended to Marvin Sussman, Judy Sokolow and Evelyn Schwartz on the passing of their beloved mother and sister. As Founders of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Marvin and his wife, Aviva, have followed in the footsteps of Charlie Bendheim, of bles
 WALLENGREN-Henry M. After living with AIDS, Henry succumbed to complications from cancer on June 2nd, 2000. He was 54 years old. He grew up in East Longmeadow, MA but had called NYC home for the last 26 years. He was a proud and active member of the Arts Community whose interests spanned a 
 YOUNGELSON-Reuben S., of Suffern, NY, died June 5th, 2000. Reuben is survived by his wife, Audrey, and sons, Mark and Paul. Reuben was a scholar and a gentle man, a Holocaust survivor, and officer of the Russian Army in WWII and of the Six Day War in Israel. Funeral services will be today a
 Don Liddle, the New York Giants left-hander who threw the pitch that produced Willie Mays's sensational catch in deepest center field at the Polo Grounds in the 1954 World Series, died on Monday at his home in Mount Carmel, Ill. He was 75. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 Eugene M. Zuckert, the secretary of the Air Force during the Bay of Pigs invasion, the Cuban missile crisis and the deepening American involvement in Vietnam, died on Monday in Washington. He was 88 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. Mr. Zuckert's public service dated to 1937, the year h
 BASKIN-Leonard. When I was young, he encouraged me to seek the art in Biology, and to cast a hobby into a career-a great gift. My thoughts are with Lisa Tobias, Hosea and Lucretia. David R. Colman BASKIN-Leonard. The members of the American Academy of Arts and Letters note with sorr
 BERKOWITZ-Enid. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Board Member Jack Berkowitz on the loss of his beloved mother. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gedale B. Horowitz, Pres. Michael 
 CHESKY-Kenneth, M.D. Prominent NY cardiologist on Monday, June 5, age 78. After graduating from Emory Medical School, Dr. Chesky served in the Navy for 3 years. When he returned from service he spent 2 years interning at the prestigious Boston City Hospital. Dr. Chesky moved to NY where he 
 CURRAN-James Leo. Died June 2, 2000, in his 77th year. Resident of Brooklyn, NY, he was a graduate of Columbia University and an accomplished pianist. He worked in public relations for many organizations including the United Nations, the Multiple Sclerosis Society and the Arthritis Foundati
 FEDER-Samuel, L., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D. President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secretary Wil
 MANES-Max, died peacefully at his home in Manhattan, June 5, 2000, aged 94. Max was born in tsarist Poland and came to this country in 1923. He was a hatter for most of his adult life, and was an active union member, organizer and retiree, receiving a Lifetime Achievement Award from UNITE! 
 McCARTHY-John T., MD. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their sorrow at the passing of John T. McCarthy, MD, a distinguished member of our Dermatology Section for 34 years and its chief from 1966 until 1988. Widely respected for his outstanding clinical 
 OLIN-John C., 84, Professor Emeritus of History at Fordham University, died on June 6th in West Nyack, N.Y. Devoted husband of Marion A. Olin for 57 years, he is also survived by 4 children, Mary Elizabeth Deambrosis, John Olin Jr., Margaret Olin de Souza Santos, and Thomas Gregory Olin, as
 POINIER-Jeremiah C. of Duxbury, MA, died unexpectedly, May 20, 2000 at the age of 59. Born in Orange, NJ, Jerry lived in Duxbury for 26 years. He was a graduate of Phillips Academy in Andover and Yale University. He was active in the Duxbury Yacht Club and St. John's Episcopal Church. He is
 PUENTE-Tito. The Board of Directors and staff of Casita Maria, Inc. extend our heartfelt sympathy to the family and friends of Ernestito Anthony Puente Jr. We are proud to remember Tito as an alumnus of our after school program in East Harlem and recipient of the 1992 Casita Maria Gold Meda
 SIMON-William E., on June 3, 2000, in Santa Barbara, CA, in his 73rd year. Beloved husband of Tonia Adams Simon. Devoted father of William E. Simon, Jr., J. Peter Simon, Mary Beth Simon Streep, Carol Leigh Simon Porges, Aimee Simon Bloom, Julie Ann Simon Munro and Johanna Katrina Simon Morr
 WILLIS-Deral Eugene. On June 4, 2000 at age 61. Devoted husband of Nora Slatkin Willis. Beloved father of Nick, Lisa and Kelly. Loving grandfather of Allison, Emily and Sarah Willis and Ashley and Katie Wray. Cherished son of Esther Willis. Dear brother of Guye, Uncle of Mike and Mark Willi
 Blair Clark, an influential executive at CBS News, a former editor of the Nation and the campaign manager for Eugene J. McCarthy in his unsuccessful bid for the 1968 Democratic presidential nomination, died on Tuesday in Princeton, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Princeton and the Turtle Bay se
 C. D. Atkins, an inventor of frozen concentrated orange juice, which revolutionized the Florida citrus industry, died last Saturday at his home in Winter Haven, Fla. He was 86. Mr. Atkins, Edwin L. Moore and L. G. MacDowell, who died in July 1986, were the research team that the Flo
 Ellery J. Chun, who might not have exactly invented the Hawaiian shirt but who surely gave it a powerful push toward prominence, died in Honolulu on May 16. He was 91. Once there were no shirts in Hawaii, much less pink ones with ukuleles, but shocked missionaries hastened to introd
 Lt. Gen. Thomas W. Kelly, who was the voice and face of the Army for millions of Americans in daily news briefings on  the Persian Gulf war, died on Tuesday at his home in Clifton, Va. He was 67. The cause was liver cancer, said his daughter, Elizabeth O'Leary. As the direct
 BECKENSTEIN-Robert, of Peaslee Hill, West Hartford, CT President of Beckenstein Enterprises, a prominent developer of major commerical properties on the East Coast for over 70 years, died June 6, 2000. Predeceased by his first wife, Toby (Weintraub) Beckenstein. He leaves his wife, RozLynn 
 CLARK-Blair. We mourn the passing of a great man and a loyal and wise member of our Board. We will miss him, and we extend our sympathies to Joanna and all the family. The Board and Staff The Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College CLARK-Blair. We have lost a dear friend and wil
 DULLEA-Jeff. His family remembers his profound wit, love of Mother Earth and fiery spirit. Memorial service Friday, 11AM, Community Church, 40 E. 35th St.       
 FEDER-Samuel Lamie, M.D. The faculty, staff and candidates of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Lamie Feder. We extend our sympathy to his wife Marie and his two children. Robert A. Glick, M.D. Director      
 GORDON-Bernard. Age 78, died at home in Glencoe, IL on June 4, 2000. Cherished son of Morris and Tina Goomnitz (deceased). He was the beloved husband of the late Margaret C. Gordon and is survived by his loving children Anne (Phiroshaw), Jon (Kristie), and Al (Lynn) and his loving grandchil
 GUTHERY-Frank F. Beloved husband of the late Ilse Hilda. Devoted father of Peter C. Guthery and Thea Samit. Dear brother of Traute Gutherz. Loving grandfather of Karen R. Rozow, Marc Samit, Deborah Owen, Benjamin Samit, Dr. Stephen Guthery, and Lisa Guthery, great-grandfather of Tyler Andry
 HYMAN-Morris D. Born May 6, 1914 in Philadelphia. Died June 6, 2000 in Little Neck, N.Y. A loving man with a big heart and a ready hug, he was cherished by his wife of 56 years Beatrice Lehman Hyman, sons Charles (Elizabeth Greenfield) and Paul, his grandchildren Claire, Catherine and Grego
 KASELL-Syd. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Syd Kasell beloved mother of our devoted member David Kasell, Men's Club Board Member and Daily Minyan Gabbai, mother-inlaw of Barbara, grandmother of Daniel and Ilana. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael
 MARSHALL-Jerrold M., on June 5, 2000, age 70. Graduate of Marshall University. His loss will be mourned by many dear friends. Funeral services today, 10 AM, from ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels,'' Queens Blvd. at 76th Road.       
 MULQUEEN-Rev. John C. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of retired parochial vicar of St. Elizabeth Church, 94-20 85th St., Ozone Park, on June 3. Reposing in Turner Funeral Home, 14360 Spring Hill Drive, Spring Hill, Florida on Wednesday, June 7, 2 to 4, 6 to 8 p.m., and Thursday
 RAVIV-Doron. On June 6, 2000. Loving son of Frances Katzengold. Beloved husband of Silvia Soto-Galicia. Cherished father of Eliana and Arik Pablo. Dear brother of Daniel, Gabi and Roni. Services today, 4 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions in 
 SIMON-William E., on June 3, 2000, in Santa Barbara, CA, in his 73rd year. Beloved husband of Tonia Adams Simon. Devoted father of William E. Simon, Jr., J. Peter Simon, Mary Beth Simon Streep, Carol Leigh Simon Porges, Aimee Simon Bloom, Julie Ann Simon Munro and Johanna Katrina Simon Morr
 STIEPLEMAN-Jack. On June 6, 2000. Of Delray Beach, Florida. Formerly of Kew Garden Hills, New York. Husband of the late Frieda. Loving father of Bernice Reiss, Susan Poirier and Edward Stiepleman. Brother of the late Willie and Ben. Grandfather and great-grandfather. Interment Delray Beach,
 Bill Thomas, an Academy Award-winning costume designer with more than 300 films to his credit, died May 30 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79. Mr. Thomas shared an Oscar with Valles for costume design on the film ''Spartacus,'' released in 1960. Mr. Thomas was responsibl
 Don Klosterman, who became one of professional football's most prominent executives, building teams in three leagues, after a skiing accident that ended his career as a quarterback and left his legs partly paralyzed, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 70. Kloster
 Jack Kroll, an editor, critic and writer for Newsweek magazine for more than 35 years, died yesterday in New York. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from colon cancer, said his wife, Joan Engels. In an age of journalistic specialization, Mr. Kroll
 Jeff MacNelly, who skewered presidents, politicians and the pompous in editorial cartoons that won him three Pulitzer Prizes, died yesterday in Baltimore. Mr. MacNelly, who was also the creator of the syndicated comic strip ''Shoe,'' lived in Flint Hill, Va. He was 52. He had been u
 BLOOR-James, 92, died May 31st at Hilton Head Island, SC. He was born September 16, 1907 to Walter and Isabelle Bloor. He attended Barnard School for Boys and Rockland Academy. He was employed by Thompson-Starrett Co. and in 1932 he went to work for Chase National Bank, (Chase Manhattan Ban
 CARTER - Clarence Holbrook. Hirschl & Adler Galleries mourns the passing of a distinguished artist and fine human being. His career as both artist and teacher spanned 80 fruitful years. His unique personal vision was admired throughout the 20th Century. We shall miss him, and extend our sym
 CHOILY-Bernard ''Babe''. On June 3, 2000. A New York Times employee for 30 years. Survived by his wife of 27 years, Grace; his son Anthony; his step-daughter Fran and husband Robert Netto and granddaughter Sara.       
 CIPOLLA-Charles W., on March 19, 2000 of Tenafly, NJ. Beloved father of Nina Smith of Wilmington, DE and devoted brother to Rosalie Cipolla-Beffa of Teaneck, NJ and Joseph A. Cipolla of San Diego, CA. He was a graduate of Yale University and Columbia University School of Law. He was a membe
 CLARK-Blair. The Hunter College community is deeply saddened by the passing of Blair Clark, Trustee of The Hunter College Foundation, a member of the Brookdale Board of Overseers and a friend of the College. He served as Co-Chair of The Committee for the Restoration of Roosevelt House and w
 GORODY - Tony (Antal) Sr. Passed away peacefully on June 6, 2000 in his home in Houston, Texas. Born in Budapest, Hungary in 1916, Tony's versatile piano artistry brought joy to many people throughout the world. A child prodigy, he toured Europe as a classical concert pianist. Subsequently,
 MILSTOC-Mayer, M. D. On June 8, 2000. It is with deep sorrow that we announce his passing. Beloved husband of Gilda, dear brother of Riri Brantei, loving brother-in-law of David Rachmuth, uncle of Carl, Paul and Steven Rachmuth, Moshe and Ilanit. We will miss him dearly. Services Sunday, 12
 STIEPLEMAN-Jack. On June 6, 2000. Of Delray Beach, Florida. Formerly of Kew Garden Hills, New York. Husband of the late Frieda. Loving father of Bernice Reiss, Susan Poirier and Edward Stiepleman. Brother of the late Willie and Ben. Grandfather and great-grandfather. Interment Delray Beach,
 Dr. Petter Lindstrom, a Swedish-born neurosurgeon respected in his field for his pioneering work in so-called bloodless brain surgery, died on May 24 at his home in Sonoma, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Lindstrom had the misfortune of being better known to the rest of the world as the husba
 George Segal, whose rough-surfaced casts of actual people brought a new, often eerie realism to postwar sculpture and made him one of the most quietly influential artists of his time, died yesterday at his home in South Brunswick, N.J. He was 75 years old and had lived in South Brunswick fo
 Jacob Lawrence, one of America's leading modern figurative painters and, from the beginning of his career in the 1930's, among the most impassioned visual chroniclers of the African-American experience, died yesterday at his home in Seattle after a long illness. He was 82. Mr. Lawre
 FINKELSTEIN-Aaron. West End Temple, Neponsit, New York mourns the death of an esteemed member and offers deepest sympathy to his wife, Harriet and family.       
 LAWRENCE - Jacob. The Trustees, the Director and the staff of The Studio Museum in Harlem are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend, Jacob Lawrence. From his beginnings as a young artist during the Harlem renaissance his work chronicled, with beauty and grace the African American exp
 MILSTOC-Mayer MD. On June 8, 2000. It is with deep sorrow that we announce his passing. Beloved husband of Gilda. Dear brother of Riri Brantei. Loving brother-in-law of David Rachmuth. Uncle of Carl and Lisa, Paul and April, Moshe, Yfaat, Ilanit and Yanir. We will miss him dearly. Services 
 MORRIS-Robert I. On June 9, 2000. beloved husband of Betty; loving father of Donald; dear father-in-law of Anne-Marie; adoring grandfather of Alexander and Stephanie. He will be profoundly missed. His goodness will survive him. Service Sunday, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amste
 PACE-Dr. William. (nee Wulf Peisachowitz.) Passed away June 8, 2000. Born in Shavl, Lithuania in 1902, he was a very prominent physician in Prague. When Hitler arrived, he continued his practice in Shavl. He is a survivor of the Shavl ghetto and of Dachau Lager 10, during which time he is c
 POLLOCK-John L. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of John L. Pollock, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 RASKIN-Herman of Tamarac, FL passed away June 9, 2000. He is survived by his loving wife; Beverly, loving children; Amy (Larry) Teich, David (Karon) Raskin, 3 beloved grandchildren; Lisa Teich, Jarret, Evan Raskin, 1 brother; Jack (Doris) Raskin. Funeral Services will be Sunday 11:45 AM at 
 Bremer-Bill. 6/10/00-Bill Bremer would have been 78 years old today. Not a day goes by that I don't miss my Dad, and I honor his spirit and love of life. Love, Annette       
 Hafez al-Assad, the air force officer who ruled Syria for three decades, transforming a Middle East backwater into an introverted regional power that endured as the center of unbending Arab hostility toward Israel, died yesterday in Damascus. He was 69. Mr. Assad, a survivor of seve
 Kermit Roosevelt, who was a member of the famous American political family but who made his contributions to the nation in the shadowy world of spy craft, died Thursday at a retirement community in Cockeysville, Md., near Baltimore. He was 84. Mr. Roosevelt's best-known exploit was 
 BEATUS-Jerome S. It is with profound sorrow that we announce the untimely passing of Jerome S. Beatus, June 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Sylvia, father of Bruce, Richard and Phyllis Jacoby and brother of Gilbert. Jerome was President of Walton Press, Inc., Printers, for 45 years. Services Su
 BELL-Dr. John B. 80, died June 8, 2000 in Williamsburg, VA. Mr. Bell was a former member of the American Chemical Society, a member and past president of the Chemical Marketing Research Association. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Ruth Palmer Bell; three sons; six grandchildren. Fun
 FEDER-Samuel Lamie M.D., 84, of Lenox, a renowned psychiatrist, died Sunday, June 4, at his home. Born in Philadelphia, PA on August 12, 1915, the son of Max and Fannie Feder, he attended schools there and received his Bachelor's degree, Magna Cum Laude, from Harvard College in 1937 where h
 GREENE-Henry Dr. Renaissance man thrived unchallenge. Hank Green (Dr. Henry Greene), internationally known artist and performer, died of prostate cancer. He served with distinction during WWII as Commander of an LCT landing craft. Hank earned a doctorate in education and served as assistant
 HOTEZ-Stanley. Passed away May 30, 2000 at age 79. An avid tennis player and lover of humor, Stanley graduated from CCNY. Survived by his wife Rosalie, daughters Janice and Ellen, brother Edward, and grandchildren Brian and Melissa. We love you.       
 JENKS-William Reid, 52, died after a long illness at his home on June 1, 2000. Mr. Jenks was born on January 18, 1948 in Waterbury, Ct. the son of Aldro and Jessica (Reid) Jenks. He was employed for many years as a stagehand, and was a member of the I.A.T.S.E., Local 74, of New Haven, Ct. f
 LAWRENCE-Jacob. Age 82. Born Atlantic City, NJ 1917. Died peacefully at his home in Seattle, WA June 9, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife of 59 years Gwendolyn Knight. Jacob Lawrence was a gracious and generous man of enormous talent and integrity who remained true to his unique artistic v
 LIPSCHIK-Emanuel, M.D. Died May 30, 2000. Survived by his wife, Fima; sons, Matthew, Greg and Neil and three grandchildren. Services will be private.       
 MARKOWITZ-Alfred M., M. D. The Department of Surgery of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and New YorkPresbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend and collegue, Dr. Alfred Markowitz. Dr. Markowitz, who was Professor Emeritus of Clinical Surger
 MILSTOC-Mayer MD. On June 8, 2000. It is with deep sorrow that we announce his passing. Beloved husband of Gilda. Dear brother of Riri Brantei. Loving brother-in-law of David Rachmuth. Uncle of Carl and Lisa, Paul and April, and Steven Rachmuth, Moshe, Yfaat, Ilanit and Yanir. We will miss 
 MORRIS-Robert I. On June 9, 2000. beloved husband of Betty; loving father of Donald; dear father-in-law of Anne-Marie; adoring grandfather of Alexander and Stephanie. He will be profoundly missed. His goodness will survive him. Service Sunday, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amste
 MOULTON-William G. Renowned Professor and Linguistics Scholar. William G. Moulton of Exeter, NH and Quonochontaug, RI died on Friday, June 2 after a long illness. He was 86. Prof. Moulton was an internationally known linguistics scholar, specializing in Germanic languages. Born in Providenc
 MYRON-Joshua. Beloved husband of the late Sybil Myron. Cherished and devoted father of Naomi Scheuer. Loving grandfather of Marc Lubin, Eve Lubin, Abigail Scheuer and their spouses Robin Lubin, C.R. Jeffs and Ateatema. Passed on after 102 years spanning three centuries on two continents. Bo
 ROTHBERGER-Fritz, Dr. 97, Wolfville, Nova Scotia, Canada. Died May 30, 2000. Born in Vienna, Austria, he was a son of the late Henry and Ella (Burchardt) Rothberger. He was a retired professor of mathematics. Dr. Rothberger led a distinguished academic career at Acadia University and at the
 SIMON-William E., The Board of Trustees and the entire Manhattanville College community mourn the loss of the Honorable William E. Simon, son of alumna Eleanor Kearns Simon, Academy, and brother of alumna, Mary Ellen Simon White, class of 1947, 1997 Distinguished Alumna Award recipient. Mr.
 TOGASHI-Tom. Pioneering Japanese TV journalist, loved and admired by colleagues, friends and family, died at home in New York City on June 4, 2000, of lung cancer at age 63. A fisherman's son from Northern Japan, he earned a law degree from Chuo University in Tokyo and was awarded a law sch
 Dooley D. Shorty, who helped to train the fabled Navajo Code Talkers, a team of marines who used a code based on the Navajo language to befuddle the Japanese military in World War II, died on June 4 in Albuquerque. He was 88. Navajo, an Indian language that has no written form, was 
 Houshang Golshiri, one of Iran's leading secular writers and a prominent advocate of free speech and human rights in his homeland, died on June 5 in Tehran. He was 63 and lived in Tehran. The cause was meningitis, said a friend, Abbas Milani, who teaches at the College of Notre Dame
 Irving Goldstein, a communications executive who oversaw the privatization of government-owned satellites, died on May 26 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md., and New York. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his wife, Su
 Joseph DiGiorgio, a painter best known for monumental images of edenic American landscapes, died on May 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. Michael Walls, an art dealer and friend, said Mr. DiGiorgio died in his sleep. Mr. DiGiorgio was born in Brooklyn in 1930, the son 
 Lord MacLehose, a British diplomat and China scholar who was London's longest-serving governor of Hong Kong, from 1971 to 1982, died on May 27 in Ayrshire, Scotland. He was 82 and had run a sheep farm at Beoch outside Maybole since his retirement. His term as governor of Hong Kong s
 AMAKER-Norman C. The Board of Directors and staff of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., note with sorrow the passing of Norman C. Amaker of Chicago, Illinois. He was a staff attorney at the Legal Defense Fund throughout the 1960's, and was involved in numerous civil rights 
 BALL-Andrew D. Beloved husband of Judith and devoted father of Jeffrey and Jonathan, died Saturday, June 10, 2000, at his home in Potomac, MD. He was 60 years old. Mr. Ball graduated from Yale University in 1962 and Harvard Law School in 1965. He worked as an attorney in New York and in pri
 BROOKS-Harry A. The Board of Managers of the Racquet & Tennis Club extend their deepest condolences to the family of our esteemed member and fellow Manager, Harry Brooks, who served on our Board with great distinction for 22 years. Harry was a consummate gentleman, with boundless generosity
 CLARK-Blair. He made our problems his problems, our triumphs his joy. His humor, tact and wisdom make us proud to live and work in Turtle Bay. The Board of Directors and 1800 Members of the Turtle Bay Association William Curtis, President       
 HERTZBERG-Robert M. Age 77, author and director of documentary films, died June 10, 2000, of heart failure after a short illness. He is survived by his partner, Howard R. Turner, sister Marjorie H. Phillips, brother-in-law Harry Phillips III, niece Elizabeth Phillips, nephews Robert T. Phil
 HUANG-John, M.D. On June 11, 2000 we lost our dearest friend. His life, tragically cut short, was filled with accomplishments of many lifetimes. Valedictorian Bronx High 1974, summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa Haverford College 1978, high honors Tufts Medical School 1982, most recently New
 KELLY-James F. June 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Nora (nee McLaughlin). Dearest father of J. Brian, Colin D., Laurence and Nevin J. Kelly and Cathryn Kelly Zega. Father-in-law of Phoebe Williams Kelly, Nancy Strother Kelly and Richard Zega and loving grandfather of Brian Foster and his wife 
 LAWRENCE-Jacob. Three generations of the family and friends of Judith Golden will dearly miss our beloved Jake. For almost a half century both he and Gwen shared with us the large and small celebrations that make life memorable. He was the great American painter; he was the great family fri
 MARKOWITZ-Alfred M., MD, 73, died June 9th, 2000. A wonderful and beloved husband, father and grandfather, brilliant educator, masterful surgeon and extraordinary person. He will be terribly missed by Sydell, his adored wife of 45 years, his four children, Dr. Arlene Markowitz, Dr. David Ma
 MICHAELSON-Martin A. On June 10, 2000, at Slingerlands, NY. Husband of Synnove Michaelson. Father of Amy Michaelson of NYC and Peter Michaelson and his wife Erica of Albany, NY. Stepfather of Kaari Stannard and Blake Decker of Albany, NY. Brother of Ila Michaelson. He also leaves nephews, a
 PICKER-Nathan. Died June 10, 2000, in Florida. He was the Founder and Owner of Office Temporaries, Inc. (OTI Services) and member YPO. Survived by wife Edith, son Joel, daughter Rita and four grandchildren.       
 RASKIN-Leonard. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Leonard Raskin, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Anne and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 RUTHERFURD-Morton A. On June 10 after a long illness. Loving husband of Margaret; beloved son of Guy G. and Georgette W. Rutherfurd; adoring father of Oliver, Nicolas, Victoria, Marina and Catherine; devoted brother of Guy Jr. and Alexander and Leith Talamo. Friends may call at Frank E. Cam
 Petar T. Mladenov, who served for 18 years as foreign minister of Bulgaria under the Communist strongman Todor Zhivkov, then helped to oust him and became the country's president, died on May 31 in Sofia, the state news agency B.T.A. reported. He was 63. Mr. Mladenov underwent bypas
 Howard E. Johnson, who danced with the Duke Ellington Orchestra at the Cotton Club and the Apollo, was a fiercely committed Communist for 16 years and went on to become an educator and a social activist, died May 28 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 85. Towering in height and
 Ted Graber, an interior decorator popular with affluent West Coast social figures who was chosen by Nancy Reagan to redecorate the family quarters of the White House, died June 3 in Sonoma, Calif. He was 80. Jean Mathison, his longtime assistant, said the cause was complications fro
 Bert C. Moore, who was one of the Americans held hostage in the United States Embassy in Teheran, Iran, died on Thursday at his home in Homosassa, Fla. He was 65. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Moore was the administrative consul at the embassy when
 Frank Patterson, an Irish tenor whose light, pleasing voice, honest expression and endearing style generated a worldwide following and earned audiences with two presidents and a pope, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 61 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
 Irving Anker, who worked his way through the ranks of New York City's public schools to become chancellor in the mid-1970's, guiding the system through a chaotic period of widespread layoffs, labor unrest, corruption and struggles over integration, died yesterday at his home in Jamaica, Que
 ACKERMAN-Kenneth P. 92, on June 10, 2000. Lost his valiant battle with Parkinson's disease. Long time member Real Estate Board of New York. Survived by his life partner Russ Webster; sister-in-law Mary of Chambersburg, PA; nieces and nephews cherished since their infancy. A memorial service
 ASSAD-al Hafez. We wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to the family of President Hafez al Assad of Syria. He was a great leader and we wish his son Bashar strength to continue with success. Jack Avital Jack Kassin Sam Domb       
 BENTON-John H. Educational film executive and a magazine publisher passed away at home in Los Angeles, California, on 16 February 2000 at the age of 57. Born in Chicago, Illinois, John was reared in Southport, Connecticut and Phoenix, Arizona. He was a graduate of Deerfield Academy, Yale Un
 BEY-Khalil, M.D., age 65, died June 10, 2000 in Bretten, Germany. Survived by his wife of forty-two years, Ingrid Bey, his son, Dr. Tareg Bey of Dallas, Texas, his daughters Dr. Jasmin Bey Cowin of New York, Nadja Bey of Germany, and his grandchild Christian Bey. Patricia Bey, Ken Cowin & t
 CLARK-Blair. The staff and the Board of Directors of the National Committee for an Effective Congress is deeply saddened by the death of a dear friend and esteemed Board Secretary, Blair Clark. He was a distinguished journalist and editor, a committed liberal Democrat and a warm and generou
 ENOS-Alanson T. III in Greenwich, Connecticut June 10, 2000, survived by his wife Alice Plimpton Enos, a brother Henry H. Enos, a son Alanson T. Enos IV, daughters Alice E. Stokes, Martha E. van Nierop and Jean E. Urban and ten grandchildren. Memorial service at St. Barnabas Church, Greenwi
 HARLEY-Donald J. On June 11, 2000. Retired City Marshal. Life Member of the Society of The Friendly Sons of Saint Patrick. Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Breezy Point Surf Club. Beloved husband of Mary R. (nee Tighe). Cherished uncle. Funeral Wed., 9:15AM from the Marine Park Fun
 HERTZBERG-Robert M. Age 77, author and director of documentary films, died June 10, 2000, of heart failure after a short illness. He is survived by his partner, Howard R. Turner, sister Marjorie H. Phillips, brother-in-law Harry Phillips III, niece Elizabeth Phillips, nephews Robert T. Phil
 LAWRENCE-Jacob. The Boards of Trustees and Governors and the staff of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture mourn the passing of a dear friend. Jacob Lawrence served on the School's Board of Governors for 32 years and taught eight times, beginning in 1954 and most recently in 1996.
 LONDON-Marsden F., of Darien, Ct. a prominent architect died June 9, 2000. He was a graduate of Yale University, class of '37 and Yale University School of Architecture. A Memorial service will be held on June 17, 2000 at 10:00 AM in St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Darien, CT.       
 MARKOWITZ-Alfred M., MD, 73, died June 9th, 2000. A wonderful and beloved husband, father and grandfather, brilliant educator, masterful surgeon and extraordinary person. He will be terribly missed by Sydell, his adored wife of 45 years, his four children, Dr. Arlene Markowitz, Dr. David Ma
 MARUSI-Gene A., 80, a long-time resident of Manhasset, New York died Sunday, June 11, 2000. He was born in Glen Ridge, NJ in 1920. He graduated Lehigh University as a Metallurgical Engineer. Gene served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army in Germany during W.W. II. He founded O-DEE Equipment C
 RUBENSTEIN-Victor. On June 10 at age 86. Beloved husband of the late Hannah. Devoted father of William and Stephen and his wife, Ellen. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer and Kenny. Contributions made be made to the charity of choice.       
 SEGAL-George. It is with tremendous sadness that the Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum observe the loss of artist George Segal. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Helen, their children and family. The Museum's long relationship with George includes a retrospective of his work 
 Rajesh Pilot, a longtime member of Parliament and an independent-minded politician with a strong following among the peasants of northern India, died Sunday in a head-on automobile collision. He was 55. His death is a severe blow to the once-dominant Congress Party, which has few po
 Earl T. Shinhoster, a senior official of the N.A.A.C.P. who served as its interim leader in the mid-1990's, died on Sunday in a auto accident near Montgomery, Ala. He was 49 and lived in Decatur, Ga. The Alabama State Police said Mr. Shinhoster was the passenger in a car that blew a
 Irving Anker, the courtly former New York City schools chancellor who guided the system through the city's fiscal crisis and the turmoil over integration in the mid-1970's, died on Monday at his home in Jamaica, Queens. He was 88. A soft-spoken career educator who worked his way up 
 J. Watson Webb Jr., the former president and chairman of the Shelburne Museum in Vermont, whose family was among the country's pre-eminent art collectors, died on Saturday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 84 and had homes in Los Angeles and Shelburne. Born into the wealth and society 
 CORRIGAN-Ethan. On June 11, 2000, age 38. Beloved son of Consuelo Reyes Corrigan and Arnold Corrigan, loving brother of the late Paul Corrigan, member of the New York bar. Deeply mourned by all his family and friends. Memorial service to be announced.       
 ENOS-Alanson T. III in Greenwich, Connecticut June 10, 2000, survived by his wife Alice Plimpton Enos, a brother Henry H. Enos, a son Alanson T. Enos IV, daughters Alice E. Stokes, Martha E. van Nierop and Jean E. Urban and ten grandchildren. Memorial service at St. Barnabas Church, Greenwi
 GERSEN-Sylvia. The attorneys and staff of Gersen, Wood & Blakeman LLP records with sadness the passing of the wife of its senior partner, Daniel Gersen, and extends to him our sincere sympathy on his loss.       
 HESSE-Frank J. Age 87 of Basking Ridge, New Jersey formerly of Monclair on June 12, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Florence E. (Martin) Hesse who died in 1973. Devoted husband of Lois E. (Liebegott) Hesse, father of Paul Hesse of Beaufort, S.C. Judith Grace of Chester, N.H. stepfather of
 KATZWER-Jacob. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, daughters, and the entire bereaved family. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Howard Wolf, President       
 KRAFT-Morris. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Morris Kraft, father of Barbara Kraft, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing Bonnie Lipton, National President       
 LAWRENCE-Jacob. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art are deeply saddened by the passing of Jacob Lawrence. More than merely chronicling the experiences of African Americans, Lawrence recorded his prospective in imagery that blended forceful modern abstraction with unflinching 
 LIPPMAN-Albert J. On June 12, 2000. Our beloved leader, husband of 55 years to Suzzette; Father to Bernard and Steven; Grandfather to Molly and Margo; And Friend to all the disadvantaged. His motto was ''Always To Smile. Be With God.''       
 MAGINLEY-George H., educator and college administrator died June 9, 2000. Contributions in his memory may be sent to the Goddard Riverside Community Cntr, 593 Columbus Av. NY, NY 10024       
 NOYES-Frederick. June 10, 2000, of heart failure. Born September 25, 1912, Colebrook, N.H. He graduated from MIT in architecture, 1936. Served in the U.S. Army as a Major, WWII. As a Project Designer at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, he was instrumental in the design of Lever House, the city's
 POLSKY-Ned, retired publisher, sociology professor, book dealer, and author of ''Hustlers, Beats, and Others,'' died at home, June 13, at the age of 71. He is survived by a daughter, Claudia Polsky, a granddaughter, Talia Mermin, both of Berkeley, Calif., a brother, Leon Polsky of New York 
 SAGE-Arthur P. Born November 20, 1940. Husband of Earline Sage, step-father of Dr. Nicole Alford of Maryland and Robert Alford of Brooklyn. Son of Faye Sage of Forest Hills. Senior Grievance Advocate of Teamster Local 237. Founding member, past President and 1995 Man of the Year of Civil Se
 SEGAL-GEORGE. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art are deeply saddened by the passing of George Segal, who added an element of private, inward-looking humanity to the often brash vocabulary of a new American Art that concentrated on commercial culture. Ghostly in appearance, h
 STONEBRIDGE-Rev. John. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired Pastor Emeritus of Sacred Heart Church, Glendale, on June 13. Reposing at Queen of Peace Residence, 110-30 221st St., Queens Village, N.Y., on Thursday, June 15, from 3-5 and 78 p.m. Mass of Transferral on Thu
 WILKERSON-James (Joe) Platt, died on June 8, at his home, Dover House, Chipping Camden, Gloucester, England. He was 85 years old. He died from complications caused by cancer of the spine. A graduate of Amherst College in 1937, he joined the Young & Rubicam advertising agency, where he advan
 WINKLER-Franz, in New York City on June 12, 2000 at age 90. Survived by his wife, Marianne Winkler, his daughters, Naomi Rosenfeld and Daniela Winkler, and his grandchildren, Kathryn and Elizabeth Rosenfeld, and Eli and Peter Martin. Funeral service on Thursday, June 15 at 11:30 A.M., the B
 BURBAGE-Harold P., Jr. (Hal). June 14, 1984. We who held him dear remember. Stu       
 Frederic G. Cassidy, a lexicographer who followed his love of folk language into the nooks and crannies of Jamaica's creole and across the linguistic expanses of the United States, died yesterday in Madison, Wis. He was 92. A professor of English at the University of Wisconsin, Mr. 
 Frederic Dard, a hugely productive and successful French writer of detective novels and other works who was known for his raffish prose style, died on June 6 in Bonnefontaine, Switzerland, where he had lived since 1978. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, his wife told the Swis
 ANKER-Irving. I had the privilege and honor of working with Irving Anker on a daily basis for three years as his attorney at the Board of Education. He was the most honest, decent and caring human being I have ever worked with. Through crisis after crisis his paramount concern was always th
 ENOS-Alanson T. III in Greenwich, Connecticut June 10, 2000, survived by his wife Alice Plimpton Enos, a brother Henry H. Enos, a son Alanson T. Enos IV, daughters Alice E. Stokes, Martha E. van Nierop and Jean E. Urban and ten grandchildren. Memorial service at St. Barnabas Church, Greenwi
 GIVANT-Joseph H. On June 9, 2000. Age 91. Beloved husband of the late Augusta Givant. He faithfully served our country. Your nieces and nephews will always remember you.       
 HEDEMAN-Rob. The aching void you leave in our hearts and lives can never be filled. Harriet and Ted Lisnow Nancy and Jay Lisnow HEDEMAN-Robert J. On June 14, 2000. Beloved son of the late Sally Sager Hedeman and Robert M. Hedeman, step-son of Shirley Hedeman. Devoted brother of Bruc
 HUANG-John. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, John Huang. John was a credit to both the medical profession and the legal profession. His insight and analytical skills will sorely be missed. Most cherished of all, however, was his friendship and
 HUNT-J. Francis passed away June 11, 2000 at home in Kingwood, Texas at the age of 74. Frank practiced law in Massachusetts, NY and Connecticut from 1949-1959 until hired by ARAMCO. He worked in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia as Senior Tax Counsel until his transfer to Houston, Texas as Chief Tax Co
 KIRKWOOD-Robert Thomas, Sr. 88, died peacefully at his home on June 13, 2000. He is survived by his beloved wife Frederica and children Jane, Diane and Robert, Jr., grandson Michael Clancy and great granddaughters Shawn and Miranda Clancy. Funeral service Thursday, June 15, 2000 7:30 pm at 
 KLEIN-Sidney B. Beloved husband of Nancy (Isaacs), brother of Leo Klein and Lillian Spitz, father and father-in-law of Daniel and Bia, David and Leah, Jonathan and Lisa Klein and Abigail and Steven Leichman, adored grandfather of 19. Funeral June 15 at 12 noon, Young Israel Ohab Zedek, 6015
 LAWRENCE-Jacob. The Board and Staff of the Jacob Lawrence Catalogue Raisonne Project express with great sadness the passing of one of the nation's most significant painters. He was a wonderfully inspiring person, both in his art and in his life. The family has requested donations in lieu of
 POLSKY-Ned, retired publisher, sociology professor, book dealer, and author of ''Hustlers, Beats, and Others,'' died at home, June 13, at the age of 71. He is survived by a daughter, Claudia Polsky, a granddaughter, Talia Mermin, both of Berkeley, Calif., a brother, Leon Polsky of New York 
 RETCHIN-Peter. Of Phoenix, Arizona. Suddenly on June 12, 2000. Survived by his loving wife Betsy, son Christopher, mother Merv and sisters Ellen Dobberstein and Maude Feil. RETCHIN-Peter. A good friend who will be deeply missed. Our love to his family. Alan and Marcie Auerbach      
 SCHENK-Morgan Ilana Levine. Born June 5th. The board and staff of The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services deeply mourn the passing of Morgan Ilana Levine Schenk, infant daughter of our colleague, Todd and his wife, Pamela. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Todd and his family. 
 SEGAL-George. The Board and staff of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are saddened by the death of artist George Segal. His legacy will live on in his sculptures and works on paper in our collection. Our condolences to his wife Helen and the entire family. Teddy Kollek President, IM James S. Sn
 SILVER-Pauline. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Pauline Silver, beloved mother of L. David Silver. We extend our deepest condolences to David and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 WEBB-J. Watson, Jr. It is with great sadness that the Board of Trustees of the Shelburne Museum notes the passing of J. Watson Webb Jr., past President and Chairman of the Board. A man of great energy and creativity, Mr. Webb dedicated 36 years to the Museum as a devoted steward of the lega
 WINKLER-Franz, in New York City on June 12, 2000 at age 90. Survived by his wife, Marianne Winkler, his daughters, Naomi Rosenfeld and Daniela Winkler, and his grandchildren, Kathryn and Elizabeth Rosenfeld, and Eli and Peter Martin. Funeral service on Thursday, June 15 at 11:30 A.M., the B
 BEATUS-Jerome S. The New York Regional Board of the AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of longtime Board member and friend, Jerry Beatus. Our condolences go to his wife Sylvia and the entire family. Shelley Parker, Chair Howie Katz, Director       
 BISGYER-Melvin, died June 14th, 2000 in Portland, OR. WWII veteran, retired mortgage broker and Adjunct Professor of Real Estate at New York University. Board member of Community Access. Beloved grandfather to Madeline Bisgyer, Philip Avallone, Elizabeth Avallone. Adored father of Marcia Bi
 CINCOTTA-John B. Of Cotuit, MA. On June 13, 2000. Former Commissioner of the New York City Board of Standards and Appeals. Survived by his wife Cecelia and his five children, Jack, Paul, Chris, James and Margaret Mary. Wake June 16th, 4-7PM John Lawrence Funeral Home, Marston Mills, MA. Fun
 GRAFF-Joseph. The Board of Governors and members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Joseph Graff. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Ruth and his family. Michael H. Kerr, President       
 HEDEMAN-Robert J. On June 14, 2000. Beloved son of the late Sally Sager Hedeman and Robert M. Hedeman, step-son of Shirley Hedeman. Devoted brother of Bruce Hedeman and Cindy Hedeman DiSpaltro. Admired brotherin-law of Raymond DiSpaltro. Cherished uncle of Robert and Jason DiSpaltro. Adored
 HUANG-John. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, John Huang. John was a credit to both the medical profession and the legal profession. His insight and analytical skills will sorely be missed. Most cherished of all, however, was his friendship and
 LAWRENCE-Jacob. The artists and staff of the Francine Seders Gallery, Seattle, WA, note with sadness the passing of Jacob Lawrence. We are grateful to have known him and will miss him. We extend our love to his wife, Gwendolyn Knight Lawrence. Francine Seders       
 MARKOWITZ-Alfred., M.D. The Faculty and Staff of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Alfred Markowitz. Dr. Markowitz served the medical center for nearly half a century, contributing greatly to medical education, research
 MOONEY-William L., 78, Succumbed to colon cancer. Beloved father and grandfather. Decorated WWII Veteran. Devoted husband to Anna, deceased October 8,1999. A renaissance man, a modern warrior, a best friend, a true character who is terribly missed. Gilda Mooney-Dube, Peter, Nathalie, Willia
 POLSKY-Ned, retired publisher, sociology professor, book dealer, and author of ''Hustlers, Beats, and Others,'' died at home, June 13, at the age of 71. He is survived by a daughter, Claudia Polsky, a granddaughter, Talia Mermin, both of Berkeley, Calif., a brother, Leon Polsky of New York 
 ROAMAN-Alan. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Alan Roaman, beloved father of Judi Roaman. We extend our deepest condolences to Judi and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President ROAMAN-Alan, brother of Adrienne, who we lov
 ROAMAN-Alan N., of Hollywood, FL, passed away June 15th, 2000. Cherished husband and best friend of Joyce Heller Roaman. Beloved father of Judi, Peter and the late Michael Roaman. Adored grandfather of Katie and Ben. Father-inlaw of Louise Rogers-Roaman. Brother of Adrienne (David) Karlin a
 SCHWARZ-Irene. The Trustees and Staff of the New York City Police Foundation express our most sincere sympathy to Richard Estes on the passing of his mother, Irene Schwarz. Our deepest condolences are extended to his wife, Pamela, and the entire Estes family. NYC Police Foundation, Inc. Geo
 SEGAL-George. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and the Tel Aviv Museum are deeply saddened by the passing of artist George Segal. Our sincerest condolences to his wife Helen and the entire family. Stanley Batkin, Chairman Prof. Mordechai Omer, Direct
 Robert J. Lurtsema, the inimitable host of ''Morning Pro Musica,'' the classical music program on public radio, an announcer equally revered and reviled for his resonant timbre and slow, drawling delivery, died on Monday. He was 68. He had been struggling with idiopathic pulmonary f
 Robert Trent Jones Sr., the golf architect who designed or remodeled more than 500 courses, and who once made a hole in one to justify his redesign of a hole, died on Wednesday night at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 93. Mr. Jones, who had been in poor health since having 
 David Heaps, whose work contributed to a decision by the the Ford Foundation to start a large-scale international human rights program, died on June 10 in Montclair, N.J. He was 84 and lived in Princeton, N.J. Mr. Heaps was the foundation's representative in Nigeria and then in Tuni
 Luis F. Baptista, a leading expert on bird song who had learned to recognize not just bird languages but also dialects and regional accents, died on Monday at his home in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 58. Dr. Baptista was tending to a wild barn owl that had moved into a shed on his prop
 BISGYER-Melvin. The Board, staff and clients of Community Access are deeply saddened by the passing of a dear friend. As a longtime Board member, Mel shared his dedication, love and warmth with all who met him. His humanity and ability to make a person feel good, especially a person who had
 FEDER-Samuel Lamie, MD. The Department of Psychiatry of Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, notes with sorrow the passing on June 6 at his home in Lenox, MA of Dr. Lamie Feder, esteemed colleague, mentor and friend. Professor of Clinical Psychiatry a
 HUANG-John. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, John Huang. John was a credit to both the medical profession and the legal profession. His insight and analytical skills will sorely be missed. Most cherished of all, however, was his friendship and
 JONES-Robert Trent of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, formerly of Montclair on June 14, 2000, husband of the late Ione David Jones, father of Robert Trent Jones, Jr. of Woodside, CA and Rees Lee Jones of Montclair, NJ, grandfather of Robert Trent III, Elizabeth Taliaferro, Alden Elizabeth and Amy
 MERIN-Herbert L., passed away on June 15th, 2000 at his residence in Palm Beach after a long illness. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving father of Andrew (Violetta), Kenneth, Neil (Susanna). Cherished grandfather of David, Dara, David, Laura, Caroline, Madeline, Ian and Natalie. After serving 
 RETCHIN-Peter William. Of Phoenix, Arizona died suddenly June 12, 2000. A former New Yorker. He graduated from Columbia University 1968. Moved to Phoenix and founded R&R Property Management. We mourn the loss of Christopher's father. He loved his family and friends deeply. A loving husband 
 ROAMAN-Alan, brother of Adrienne, who we loved for his warmth, courage and zest for life will be greatly missed. His dedication to mankind will always be remembered and should serve as an example to all. Adrienne, David, Linda & Diane Karlin       
 SCHNELLER-Arthur, M.D., 95, June 15, 2000, in West Palm Beach, Fl. Survived by his beloved daughters Joan (Joseph) Pomeranz & Jean (Arnold) Levine, 11 adored grandchildren, 10 great grandchildren & his devoted brother Dr. Leo Schneller. Extraordinarily devoted family doctor in Astoria, Long
 TAYLOR-Harold W. On June 14, 2000. Beloved husband of Evelyn; Loving Father of Ronald (Linda); Loving Stepfather of Jane Praeger (Terry O'Brien); Cherished Grandfather of Melissa Taylor, Jenne and Leo O'Brien. Services Monday, June 19 at 12:45 pm at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th 
 ANKER-Irving. The children of Irving Anker thank all the friends, colleagues and family members who made our father's funeral sucn a magnificent tribute to him and his work. We especially thank Merle Gomez, Jo-An Morris and the people of Hospice Care Network for the love and peace they brou
 McSWEENEY-Edward F. III. ''Dooley.'' It should warm your eternal spirit to know that whenever two of your 250 nearest and dearest friends gather, ''Dooley stories'' punctuate the conversation and you and the enduring value of your friendship are inevitably the subject of the first and last 
 Donald Kalish, a former chairman of the department of philosophy at the University of California at Los Angeles, but best known as an effective organizer of demonstrations against United States involvement in Vietnam, died June 8 in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 80.    
 Garrett Eckbo, a pioneer of modern landscape design and a leading practitioner of California landscape architecture, died on May 15 at his home in Oakland. He was 89. Through a broad scope of designing work, from camps for migrant farm workers to estate gardens for Hollywood grandee
 Dr. George Irving Bell, a biophysicist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory and a leader in its human genome studies, died on May 28 in Los Alamos, N.M., where he lived. He was 73. The cause was leukemia complications after surgery, his family said. Dr. Bell was a founder o
 George Marshall, a vigorous proponent of civil rights and a conservationist with a special passion for the Adirondack Mountains, died in Nyack, N.Y., on May 21. He was 96. Mr. Marshall's involvement in civil rights was inspired by his father, Louis Marshall, a co-founder of the Amer
 Judd Rose, a reporter and anchor for network and cable television news programs, died June 10 at his home in Manhattan. He was 45. The cause was cancer, CNN said. Mr. Rose appeared on the CNN program ''CNN NewsStand'' as co-anchor from 1998 until late 1999. From 1982
 BLUME-Eli. Retired Chairman of Language Department, Forest Hills High School of Hampton Bays, died on June 15, 2000 at the age of 87. He leaves his dear wife Gloria. He is survived by his daughter Alison Kaufman. He leaves his grandson Bruce, his nephews and neices Lawrence and Janet Mayer,
 CUMMINGS-Patrick J. Jr. in his 52nd year, of Port Washington passed away on June 16, 2000 after a brief illness of melanoma liver cancer. Dearly beloved husband of Kelly (nee Stuart). Most precious and beloved son of Dorothy Whalen of Port Washington and the late Patrick Cummings Sr. of Nor
 DUFALLO - Richard. One of America's leading exponents of twentieth-century music, Richard Dufallo died June 16, 2000, of cancer. During his career, he conducted more than 80 major orchestras and festivals in the U.S., Canada, and twelve European countries and premiered a host of major works
 GRADY-James G., of Stratford, CT, formerly of NYC, beloved husband of Margaret V. Kelley Grady, died on Thursday, June 15, 2000 in CT. He was a graduate of Harvard Law School and an Army veteran of WWII, serving in Europe. After the war, he had been employed by Mendes and Mount Law Firm in 
 HERTZBERG-Robert M. Age 77, author and director of documentary films, died June 10, 2000, of heart failure after a short illness. He is survived by his partner, Howard R. Turner, sister Marjorie H. Phillips, brother-in-law Harry Phillips III, niece Elizabeth Phillips, nephews Robert T. Phil
 MERIN-Herbert L., passed away on June 15th, 2000 at his residence in Palm Beach after a long illness. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving father of Andrew (Violetta), Kenneth, Neil (Susanna). Cherished grandfather of David, Dara, David, Laura, Caroline, Madeline, Ian and Natalie. After serving 
 RETCHIN-Peter William. Of Phoenix, Arizona died suddenly June 12, 2000. A former New Yorker. He graduated from Columbia University 1968. Moved to Phoenix and founded R&R Property Management. We mourn the loss of Christopher's father. He loved his family and friends deeply. A loving husband 
 ROAMAN-Alan. Alan, you were a wonderful brother and brother-inlaw, and your special warmth and affection endeared you to your niece and nephews, grand nieces and grand nephew. Barbara and Richard Roaman Lisa Roaman Fox, Laura, Mark and Eric Roaman Emily, Danny and Sandy ROAMAN-Alan,
 SAGER-Joseph. On June 15, 2000, in Plantation, FL, age 92. Beloved father of Marilyn. Devoted brother of the late Rose Berman and Jack Sager. Cherished uncle, great-uncle, cousin, honorary grandfather and friend. A New Yorker for his first 72 years, he graduated from Fordham University Phar
 TAYLOR-Harold W. On June 14, 2000. Beloved husband of Evelyn; Loving Father of Ronald (Linda); Loving Stepfather of Jane Praeger (Terry O'Brien); Cherished Grandfather of Melissa Taylor, Jenne and Leo O'Brien. Services Monday, June 19 at 12:45 pm at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th 
 ITZKOFF-Nathan. June 16, 1985. Remembered daily with great love and admiration. It was an honor to be his daughter.       
 Walter Poenisch, a retired cookie baker and marathon swimmer who observed his 65th birthday by becoming the first man to swim from Havana to the Florida Keys -- a feat not universally recognized -- died on June 6 at his home in suburban Columbus, Ohio. He was 86. On the night of Jul
 Frederick Noyes, a versatile New York architect who worked on design projects that included Lever House and a Park Avenue luggage store, died on June 10 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Noyes, known as Fred, was with the architectu
 Chief Justice Ismail Mahomed, a lifelong champion of the fight against white rule and the first nonwhite to preside over South Africa's highest common-law court, died here on Saturday night. He was 68. Justice Mahomed, had been in and out of the hospital since learning earlier this 
 Noboru Takeshita, a former prime minister, and one of the legendary kingmakers of postwar politics in Japan, died today in a Tokyo hospital after a long illness. He was 76. Mr. Takeshita (pronounced tah-kesh-tah), who was prime minister from 1987 to 1989, during the height of Japan'
 BISGYER-Melvin, died June 14th, 2000 in Portland, OR. Retired mortgage broker and Adjunct Professor of Real Estate at New York University. Board member of Community Access. Beloved brother to Janice Grossman and Justin Bisgyer. Beloved grandfather to Madeline Bisgyer, Philip Avallone, Eliza
 GORBATY-Aaron, Rabbi. Of Baltimore, MD. Formerly of Boro Park, Brooklyn. The Board of Trustees and Members of Temple Emanu-El of Boro Park mourn the loss of our dear friend and Rabbi Emeritus. Rabbi Gorbaty was highly esteemed for the level of Talmudic Scholarship he possessed, and loved fo
 KOLLER-Henry F. Of Scotch Plains, NJ, on Thursday, June 15, 2000, at the Ashbrook Nursing Home, Scotch Plains, NJ. Predeceased by his wife Irene (1998) and is survived by a brother-in-law, Edward Gluck, two nephews, Peter H. Dunckelmann and his wife Caroline, Dr. John Gluck, and a niece, Su
 KOPIT-Jerome. Died Sunday morning. Service will be held at Nassau North Chapel, North Station Drive, Great Neck, Tuesday, 11 AM. Survived by his wife, Florence, and a multitude who loved him.       
 SHAW-Sol. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member Sol Shaw, and offer their deepest sympathy to his wife Ella, his children and the entire Shaw family. Alpine Country Club Harvey Nagin President       
 ZENKE-Henry Christian II. Of Greensboro, NC, died at his home on Saturday, June 17, 2000. Funeral services will be held at 2 PM, Tuesday, June 20, at Holy Trinity Episcopal Church, 607 North Greene St. in Greensboro, NC. Interment will be in Green Hill Cemetery. Mr. Zenke is survived by his
 Dr. Jeffrey A. Willick, an assistant professor at Stanford University and an astrophysicist intrigued with cosmology and the motion of galaxies, was killed Sunday afternoon in Englewood, N.J., when a sports car crashed into a coffee shop and hit him, the authorities said. He was 40.        
 BARTLE-Thomas P., Jr., died on June 16th, 2000 of lung cancer in Southampton Hospital at age 60. He graduated from Yale University and Wharton Business School and was a partner of the executive search firm of Wesley, Brown & Bartle. He is survived by his wife, Angelika, his son, Thomas, and
 CARRIER-Eugene. Former Manager of the New York Times Technical Support Department. Passed away on Friday, June 16 in Cape Coral, Florida. He is survived by his wife Denise, a brother Bobbie, daughters Christie Tine and Dawn Murray Schnauder and son David. Five grandchildren Kevin, Nicholas,
 COUFOS-Louis P., 82 of Bay Harbor Islands, Florida, formerly of Jamaica, New York, passed away June 18, 2000. Former proprietor of Constantine's Restaurant, Jamaica, New York. Archon of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople. Longtime member of the Wheatley Hills Country Club, Long I
 EDISON-Bill, on June 17th, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife, Suzanne. Devoted son of Merrill and the late Joan Edison, brother of Leslie and Cal Lampert, Bob Edison and Adam Edison, uncle of Jonathan and Jaime Lampert and Arielle Edison. Contributions may be made to Make-A-Wish Foundation
 HOCHBERG-Leonard . It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Leonard Hochberg, brother of Irwin Hochberg, former chairman of the board and longtime supporter of UJA-Federation and many other Jewish causes. Our deepest sy
 KABAT-Elvin A. Ph.D. The Faculty and Staff of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons mourn the loss of our distinguished friend and colleague, Dr. Elvin Kabat. Dr. Kabat's long career with Columbia University began as an Assistant Professor of Bacteriology in 1946. An immunoch
 ROSEN-Howard, M.D. The Members of The NYU-Hospital For Joint Diseases Department of Orthopaedic Surgery mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Dr. Howard Rosen. Dr. Rosen was a graduate of HJD's Orthopaedic Residency Program and continued to serve as a valued and honored member of t
 SCHWARTZ-Lester. Died on June 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Mara, devoted father of Ralph, Victoria, Ted, Nancy and brother of Martin. Adoring grandfather of Elana, Jonathan and Jack. A dedicated psychoanalyst, deeply devoted to his patients, family and friends. Services-The SAJ, 15 W. 86th 
 SILBERMINTZ-Seymour. K'hal Adath Jeshurun mourns the passing of our Choir's Musical Director. For nearly 40 years his enormous talent, immense patience with amateurs and his ready smile, coupled with an abundance of grace and humility, endeared him to three generations of choir members and 
 SNITZER-Albert R. ''Allie'', CLU, ChFC, of Murray Hill, New Jersey on June 14, 2000. Husband of Leah Goldberg Snitzer. Father of John R. of Murray Hill, New Jersey and Mrs. Cathy Kneese of Chatham, New Jersey. Father-in-law of Kenneth Kneese. Also survived by 2 grandchildren, Tamara and Sea
 WOLFF-Herbert. The entire staff of Canal Jean Co. mourns the loss of our dear friend and colleague. Herb was an invaluable leader at Canal Jean Co.for over 20 years. He was an outstanding retailer for over a half century, a source of knowledge and inspiration to all who worked with him, alw
 ZALAR-Charles, 90, of Ghent, NY, died June 16th, 2000 at his home. Former diplomat to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and also National Science Foundation Director. Survived by son, Gregory L. and daughter-in-law, Patricia of NYC, sister, Elka Kosir of Slovenia, and grandson, Andrej of NYC. Funer
 Dr. Lester Schwartz, a Manhattan psychoanalyst who taught at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute in Manhattan, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 72 and had homes on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was cancer, sai
 Fred Rosen, the founder of a long-established Manhattan public relations firm, died on Sunday at his home in Water Mill, N.Y. He was 84 and also had a home in Midtown Manhattan. He suffered from Shy-Drager syndrome, a neurological disorder, said his wife, Jane. Mr. Rosen was
 Grigory Gorin, the Russian playwright, humorist and screenwriter, died here on June 15. He was 60. The cause was a heart attack, said the Culture Ministry. Like Mikhail Bulgakov and Anton Chekhov, Mr. Gorin began his working life as a doctor. In 1966 he and Arkady Arkanov wr
 Jules Roy, a prolific and polemical French writer who sought inspiration for much of his work in the Algeria of his childhood and in his subsequent career as a French air force officer, died on June 15 at his home in the Burgundy town of Vezelay. He was 92. Mr. Roy was first recogni
 AUCHINCLOSS-Douglas died on June 20, 2000 at his home in New York City. He was 87 and had been ill for some time with amyloidosis. He was a writer at Time magazine for many years, principally in the Religion section. He is survived by his wife Catherine, his daughters Gail Gilbert, Lee Link
 COHEN-Abraham. President and owner of Hartz & Company, manufacturers of mens tailored clothing. Beloved husband of Vera. He will be missed by family, their friends and co-workers. Services Wednesday, June 21 12 noon,at Plaza Memorial, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue COHEN-Abraham (Al
 FORTGANG-Martin. The Sandpiper at Westhampton Beach is sad to announce the death of Martin Fortgang, our fellow co-operator. We extend sincere condolences to his family. Richard A. Sheldon, President Ronald Handwerger, Secretary       
 HARWOOD-Paul H., M.D. of Essex, CT died on June 19 in Essex. Beloved husband of Sibyl Hine Harwood. Devoted father of Frances, Catherine & Sibyl Harwood and the late Paul H. Harwood III. He will also be fondly missed by his grandchildren; Laurie Schuur Duncan, John and Mary B. Thorne-Thomse
 KELFON-Theodore Thomas. The son of Daisy Kelfon Lockley of Baltimore, Md. Died suddenly on June 11, 2000 in Goldwater Hospital in Long Island, NY. He leaves to mourn a son, Theodore Kelfon Williams of New York, a mother Daisy Kelfon Lockley, six sisters, Doris, Gloria, Eleanor, Alice, Roxan
 KLEINBAUM-Max M. (87). Beloved husband of Josephine (Leve) for 50 years. Father of Paul, Sara Dena, Aaron and Sharon. Father-in-law of Michele Kleinbaum, Tami Furman and Margaret Moers Wenig. Proud grandfather of Jennifer, Derek, D.J., Rebecca, Rachel, Ethan, Jacob, Liba and Molly. He gave 
 LUBIN-Emanuel. June 19, 2000 at age 85 after a long and distinguished career in real estate law. Beloved husband of Evelyn, devoted father of Helen and her husband, Robert Stark. Cherished grandfather of Caroline and David. Loving brother of Florence Meyer. Service Wednesday, June 21, 9:45 
 MERIN-Herbert L. Chapel services were held in Florida on Sunday. For information on visiting the family on Tuesday and Wednesday, please call I. J. Morris Funeral Home, 631 - 499 - 6060. Graveside services will be Thursday 10:30am at Beth Moses Cemetery in Farmingdale. Contributions may be 
 RAFTERY-William A. (formerly of Alpine, N.J.) died at his home in Pinehurst, North Carolina on June 19, 2000. Mr. Raftery is survived by Vivian, his wife of 46 years; daughters Donna of New York City and Linda of Durham, N.C.; granddaughters, Claire and Adriane; and brother John Jr. of Las 
 ROSEN-Dr. Howard. We have lost a true giant amongst friends of Israel. Throughout her past wars and in times of peace, the soldiers of the Israel Defense Forces and the population of Israel have been blessed by the medical expertise, hands-on service and exceptionally kind heart of Dr. Howa
 SCHWARTZ-Lester. Died on June 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Mara, devoted father of Ralph, Victoria, Ted, Nancy and brother of Martin. Adoring grandfather of Elana, Jonathan and Jack. A dedicated psychoanalyst, deeply devoted to his patients, family and friends. Services-The SAJ, 15 W. 86th 
 SILBERMINTZ - Seymour. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of Seymour Silbermintz, beloved father of our member, Roschelle Daube. We express profound condolences to his wife, children and grandchildren. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Ro
 VANDERBILT-Oliver DeGray, of Jupiter Island, FL., 85, an industrialist and investment banker, died Tuesday, June 20, 2000. He had lived on Jupiter Island, Hobe Sound since 1983. Vanderbilt was active in the railway supply business until 1942 when he joined the U.S. Army during World War II.
 WILLICK-Jeffrey. The New York State Psychiatric Institute and the Department of Psychiatry at Columbia University extend our deepest and most heartfelt condolences to our valued colleague, Martin Willick, M.D. and his wife Nancy on the tragic death of their son Jeffrey. Our sympathy to Jeff
 Richard Dufallo, a conductor best known for his energetic, probing performances of contemporary music, died last Friday at his home in Denton, Tex. He was 67. His wife, the pianist Pamela Mia Paul, said the cause was stomach cancer. Mr. Dufallo had a broad repertory that inc
 India's most prominent Christian leader, Alan de Lastic, the archbishop of Delhi, was killed on Tuesday night in a car crash in Poland, where he had been been praying at Cracow's shrine to the Black Madonna after a working visit to Rome. He was 70 years old. Archbishop de Lastic's d
 Dr. Elvin Abraham Kabat, a retired Columbia University microbiologist who contributed substantially to the field of immunology and the fundamental understanding of antibodies, died Friday at a nursing home in North Falmouth, Mass. Dr. Kabat, a former resident of Manhattan, was 85. H
 AUCHINCLOSS-Douglas died on June 20, 2000 at his home in New York City. He was 87 and had been ill for some time with amyloidosis. He was a writer at Time magazine for many years, principally in the Religion section. He is survived by his wife Catherine, his daughters Gail Gilbert, Lee Link
 BERGER-George, on June 19th, 51 years old. Survived by two daughters, both residing in NY, his mother Violet and his sister Sue Kinsler, brother-in-law Larry Kinsler and nephew Jeffrey Kinsler, all of Las Vegas. Services to be held Friday, June 23, 12 noon at Gutterman/Parkside Funeral Home
 CAVANAGH-James M., Msgr. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of retired Pastor Emeritus of Our Lady of Angels Church, 7320 Fourth Ave., Brooklyn, on June 21. Reposing in McLoughlin Funeral Home, 9620 3rd Ave., Brooklyn, on Thursday, June 22, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 p.m., and Friday, 
 FINKELSTEIN-Louis. Artist, educator and critic, died June 20. Beloved husband of Jane Culp. Beloved father of Henry and Martha Campbell. Beloved grandfather of Rachel Stires. We are grateful for the support of his many friends during his recent illness. A traveling exhibition of his paintin
 GASPARD-Paul Louis, 66, of Brooklyn, NY, formerly a hearing officer with New York State Public Service Commission, on February 28, 2000 in Florida. Loving husband of Elsie Goodman Gaspard. Father of three sons. Interment was on the Island of St. Vincent. May he rest in peace.       
 HAMPTON-Robert III, of Ridgefield, CT formerly of Somers, NY. Husband of the late Harriet (nee Davis). Retired C.P.A. of Price Waterhouse, NYC. Survived by three sons, Robert W. of Ft. Worth, TX, Ronald B. of Groton, MA and Randolph Y. of San Diego, CA, a sister, Mrs. Edward Murphy of Manha
 KELSON-Theodore Thomas. The son of Daisy Kelfon Lockley of Baltimore, Md. Died suddenly on June 11, 2000 in Goldwater Hospital in Long Island, New York. He leaves to mourn a son, Theodore Kelfon Williams of New York, a mother Daisy Kelfon Lockley, six sisters, Doris, Gloria, Eleanor, Alice,
 LIEBLER-William A., MD. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their sorrow at the passing of William A. Liebler, MD, a distiguished member of our Orthopedic Surgery Department for 39 years. Dr. Liebler was an outstanding surgeon who was highly regarded as a 
 LUBIN-Emanuel. On behalf of the entire Newmark family, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the untimely passing of Manny Lubin, and to extend our deepest condolences to his family. He truly was the dean of the City's real estate attorneys, and he served the industry with dignity and d
 LUSTBADER-Morris S. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member, Morris S. Lustbader. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President Victor Muskin, Brotherhood President       
 NELSON-Bernard David. On June 18, 2000 at his home in New Hyde Park. Warm and loving, an uncommonly good man. Husband of Doris; father of Edward and Joel; father-in-law of Loren and Amy; grandfather of Meredith, Jonah, Stacy, Micah and Jonathan. His loyalty, humor, gentleness and good sense
 ROSEN-Howard, M.D. The Jesselson family mourns a beloved friend and healer. We share our grief with Connie and his entire family. Erica and family ROSEN-Howard. We will miss your joie de vivre that so enriched our lives. Closeness from a distance forever. Karen and Elton Strauss    
 SILBERMINTZ-Seymour. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Seymour Silbermintz, a creative teacher of Jewish Music. As conductor of our Shirah Choir, he inspired our congregation with his liturgical arrangements and his sincerity in prayer. Deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Elaine, 
 THIERFELDER-William P. Of New Cumberland, PA, formerly of NYC, died Wednesday in Harrisburg, PA. He retired as Administrative Director of Kenyon & Kenyon Law Firm, NYC. Mass of Christian burial will be celebrated at 1:00 PM, Friday at Chapel of St. Francis of Assisi in Cemetery of the Gate 
 WILLICK-Jeffrey, Dr. The New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society extend their deepest sympathy to our colleague, Dr. Martin Willick and his wife Nancy on the loss of their son Jeffrey. Our condolences to Jeffrey's wife Ellen Schneider, MD, and children. Our heartfelt thoughts are with
 Alan Hovhaness, a prolific composer whose hundreds of orchestral, choral and chamber works found a ready audience among listeners who sought accessibility, directness and an open-hearted spirituality in modern music, died on Wednesday in Seattle. He was 89 and lived in Seattle. Few 
 F. Trowbridge vom Baur, a retired lawyer, author and lecturer who was the general counsel of the Department of the Navy from 1953 to 1960, died on Saturday at a convalescent home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 91 and most recently lived in Warrenton, Va. As the Navy's chief lawyer i
 Dr. Howard Rosen, a New York orthopedic surgeon who helped introduce the technique of mending broken bones with metal plates to American operating rooms, died on Sunday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his office said
 BROWN-Helen W., 87, of Lloyd Harbor, New York, on June 20, 2000. Survived by David W. Brown, husband for 58 years, friends for 75. Also survived by daughter Constance Pierce of Manassas, Virgina, son Arthur W. Brown of South Kent, Connecticut, his wife Mary and their sons Josh and Alex. A M
 DOUBLEDAY-G. Chester. Of Gladwyne, PA, died peacefully, June 21, 2000. His wife, Mary Kelly Doubleday, predeceased him. A former vice president of IngersollRand Co., Mr. Doubleday was born in NYC, November 21, 1904. He is survived by three daughters: Patricia Irons of Vero Beach, FL, Margue
 FORMAN-Louis. He was the beloved husband of Estelle, father of Ellen and Paul, brother of Tillie Leslie and grandfather of Jonathan and Jacob. Died on June 21, 2000. Services at Riverside Funeral Chapel, Friday, June 23, 11:45AM.       
 FRIEDEL-Allan. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member Friar Allan Friedel on June 22, 2000. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on June 23 at 11AM at Temple B'nai Israel 561-241-8118 Alan King
 GOLD-Paul Dana, MD, of Wallingford, Pennsylvania died on June 11, 2000 at home. Dr. Gold was born in New York on January 25, 1952 the son of Florence (Schneider) and the late Louis Gold. A graduate of State University of New York -Stonybrook & University of Noreste School of Medicine, Tampi
 HAAS-Hyman. The Haas family announces the loss of Hyman Haas, beloved husband of Esther and cherished father of Janet and Deena. Noted in Ernie Pyle's ''Bravemen'' Sergeant Haas and his men knocked out a pill box on Normandy Beach on D-Day. This action opened a pathway for the soldiers to p
 LEW-Anna Jacob. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved mother of Marvin E. Jacob, Board member of our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, who, with his wife, Atara, established RIETS' Shalom Yaakov Ja
 LIEBLER-William A. The Department of Orthopedic Surgery at Lenox Hill Hospital mourns the passing of William A. Liebler, M.D., an esteemed member of the staff for over 40 years. Dr. Liebler was admired and respected by his colleagues, students and patients leaving behind a legacy of many ac
 LUBIN-Emanuel. The Benenson Capital Company mourns the loss of our Distinguished friend and trusted advisor, Manny Lubin. We will miss his advice, intelligence, counsel and wit. We have over fifty years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a m
 McGANN-Dr. Charles James. Died at his home early morning June 21, 2000 at age 69. A dedicated psychoanalyst, he cared deeply for his patients, friends and family. He lived strongly committed to his principles. His three children, Nadine, John and Vanessa and his wife Helen grieve for him. M
 McGLINN-Frank C.P. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the loss of Frank C.P. McGlinn, honored and respected Trustee. His leadership memorialized the Great American Actor, Edwin Forrest, at our nursing home and as an endowment. The legacies of these two great Philadelphians help entertainmen
 SISKIND-William, 89 years old. Beloved husband of Teri for 65 years & most dear father of Carol, Arthur and Mary Ann, Alan and Marla. Cherished and adored grandfather of Laura and Bonnie, Julie, Kenny and Nicole, Daniel and Tamara. We were blessed to have his love, wise counsel and care and
 WINSTON-Lionel A. Cherished husband of Bella; father of Diane, Debra, David, Patricia, Claire, Jonathan, Robert and grandfather of thirteen grandchildren and two as yet unborn. The hand and heart hurt to write of the man who made so many worlds yet lives no more. But he will never be forgot
 Enrico Cuccia, a famously reclusive Italian banker who was at the center of Italian finance for half a century, died today in Milan. He was 92. Mr. Cuccia, who at his death still kept an office at his bank, Mediobanca S.p.A., and held the title of honorary chairman, controlled impor
 Harry Usher, who as the right-hand man to Peter Ueberroth helped to make the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games by far the most successful financially, died Thursday in Secaucus, N.J. He was 61. His family said he apparently suffered a heart attack at the AmeriSuites in Secaucus, where 
 Michel Droit, a man of letters and a journalist who was a member of the Academie Francaise, died on Thursday in La Celle-Saint-Cloud, a suburb of Paris. He was 77. Mr. Droit's writing, which included more than 20 novels and other books during half a century, was rich as well as prol
 CALAUTTI-William. 85, Died June 22 in Virginia. He was a musician and artisan who designed chandeliers for hotels, theaters and restaurants in New York and in the Unites States Capitol Building in Washington DC. He was born March 14, 1915 in New York and served in the U.S. Navy during World
 CAVANAGH-James, Monsignor. The children and staff of Little Flower Children's Services mourn the sudden death of Monsignor James Cavanagh, a caring and devoted priest, member of the Board of Directors. He was a model to children in his respect for them and in his outstanding basketball abil
 DILLMEIER-William E. Died at his home in Garden City, NY on June 23, 2000 on his 89th birthday. Survived by his sons, William E., Jr. of Lambertville, NJ, and Robert L. of Garden City, NY, and their respective families. Reposing at Fairchild Funeral Home, Garden City, NY, Sunday, June 25, 2
 GROSSINGER-Irwin. The Board of Governors & Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irwin Grossinger. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Sharon, and their family. Richard Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary
 LIBERMAN-James B. At home on June 22, 2000, at age 84. Beloved husband of Deen Freed Liberman and, after her death, of Nadine C. Zamichow, Father of Lee Liberman Otis and the late John Liberman, Father-in-law of Mary Beth Liberman Traynor and William G. Otis, Grandfather of Harry, Dean, Emm
 LUSTBADER-Morris S. ''Bud,'' died peacefully in New York on June 20th, 2000 at the age of 92. Son of the late Samuel and Sarah Lustbader, for many years a civil engineer in this city, Bud was educated at Exeter and Yale, served proudly in the Seabees on Guadalcanal in World War II and becam
 MAMELOK-Alfred E., M.D., on June 22, 2000. Beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Susan Wexler, Jonathan, Edward Mamelok, Avis Brodess, Dr. Mark Fromer and Dr. Susan Fromer. Cherished grandfather of Adam and Sara Wexler, Laura, Yann, Danielle and Samantha Mamelok, Daven Brodess, Gabrie
 SISKIND-William. ''Uncle Bill'', your intelligence, calm demeanor and kind heart will be missed. Over the years, Uncle Bill was always there to offer sound advice and good sense and for this we will always be grateful to Aunt Terry, Carol, Alan, Marla, Arthur, Mary Ann, Laura, Bonnie, Julie
 There was a time in the 1970's and the 80's, when Philippe Chatrier wore dual chapeaux as president of the International Tennis Federation and president of the French Tennis Federation, that all roads in tennis led through Gaul. That era officially ended Thursday when Mr. Chatrier, the man 
 Dr. Irving L. Lichtenstein, who transformed hernia surgery from an operation requiring hospitalization and long recuperation into an uncomplicated outpatient procedure, died June 11 at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 80. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. 
 Joshua Myron, one of the last of the camel-mounted Zionist brigade that fought with Vladimir Jabotinsky against Turkey in Palestine during World War I, died in Manhattan on June 8. He was 102. With the outbreak of World War I, Mr. Jabotinsky, then a Russian journalist, realized that
 COREYS-Samuel A. Formerly of Westbury, NY. Died June 14, 2000, in West Palm Beach, FL. Those who knew Sam will always remember his great love of music and the arts and his endless study of their interrelationship with scientific thought. Sam is survived by his devoted wife, Esther, two lovi
 CRILEY-Richard. We mourn the death of Richard Criley, June 18, 2000 and celebrate his lifelong fight for social justice and peace. An activist for more than six decades, Dick Criley was a leader of the ACLU, founder of the National Committee to Abolish HUAC, recipient of the 1985 Earl Warre
 DILLMEIER-William E. On June 23, 2000, on his 89th birthday, at his home in Garden City, NY. Father of William E., Jr. of Lambertville, NJ, Robert L. of Garden City and the late David S., who died in 1967. Father-in-law of Margaret and Joy Dillmeier. Husband of the late Doris Dillmeier, who
 KELSON-Theodore Thomas. The son of Daisy Kelson Lockley of Baltimore, Md. Died suddenly on June 11, 2000 in Goldwater Hospital in Long Island, New York. He leaves to mourn a son, Theodore Kelson Williams of New York, a mother Daisy Kelson Lockley, six sisters, Doris, Gloria, Eleanor, Alice,
 MacRAE-Cameron F. The Board of Directors and the entire CLEARPOOL family mourn the loss of our dear friend and former leader. He provided extraordinary service to CLEARPOOL from 1951 until 1968, guiding the organization with remarkable distinction as President for much of his tenure. His ge
 MAMELOK-Alfred E., M.D., on June 22, 2000. Beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Susan Wexler, Jonathan, Edward Mamelok, Avis Brodess, Dr. Mark Fromer and Dr. Susan Fromer. Cherished grandfather of Adam and Sara Wexler, Laura, Yann, Danielle and Samantha Mamelok, Daven Brodess, Gabrie
 MARKFIELD-Alfred. Age 84, died on Father's Day, June 18. He had fought asthma and heart disease but finally succumbed peacefully at his Florida home with his wife, Sylvia (nee Knopf) after holding hands and a final kiss after 57 years of marriage. Alfred is also survived by two daughters, P
 REID-Lorraine Hyde. The Monmouth Medical Center and Monmouth Health Care Foundation Boards of Trustees, Administration and Staff of Monmouth Medical Center extend their condolences to Walter Reid, generous benefactor, former Chairman of the Monmouth Medical Center Board of Trustees and Mid-
 ROCHLIN-Gregory N., M.D. of Cambridge, on Monday, June 19, 2000. Husband of Helen (Buker) Rochlin. Father of Martha (Rochlin) Kapos of London and Gregory M. Rochlin of Cambridge. Also survived by 3 grandchildren Andrea M. Kapos and Peter B. Kapos both of London and Katherine F. Rochlin of C
 SISKIND-William, 89 years old. Beloved husband of Teri for 65 years & most dear father of Carol, Arthur and Mary Ann, Alan and Marla. Cherished and adored grandfather of Laura and Bonnie, Julie, Kenny and Nicole, Daniel and Tamara. We were blessed to have his love, wise counsel and care and
 TOMERE-Jan Szaja, Died on June 23, 2000 at age 79. Husband of Margaret, father to David and Elisabeth. He survived the Holocaust to build a new life in America. He loved music and animals. We will miss him. For information, Jewish Memorial Chapel 914-965-0660.       
 WELLER-Robert B. On June 23, 2000 at age 83. Beloved husband of Marjorie of 55 years. Father of Jonathan and David. Loving ''Poppy'' of Andrew, Robert & Margot. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., Monday, 3:30 PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may
 Paul Griffin, a pianist and organist whose gospel-charged style made him one of New York City's top studio musicians, died on June 14 at his home in the Bronx. He was 62. The cause seemed to be a heart attack, said his wife, Mary Beth. Mr. Griffin also suffered from diabetes and was
 William A. Liebler, a specialist in sports and dance medicine whose clients included the New York Rangers hockey team, the American Ballet Theater, the New York City Ballet and the Martha Graham Dance Company, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 76. Dr. Liebler, who lived in 
 Bill Colleran, a film and television director whose work ranged from documentaries to musical variety shows, died on June 1 in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 77. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Born William Arthur Colleran in Edgerton, Wis., he began his career in th
 HAYES-Mickey, died June 14 in Beverly Hills, California. He was eighty-seven. Hayes was a Miami Beach resident for more than fifty years. Born in New York, he began his career as a window dresser for men's shops. He moved to Miami Beach in 1945 and opened a men's clothing store on Lincoln R
 LEHMAN-Franz J. Age 85, of the Lower East Side, NYC. Died on June 24, after being struck by an automobile on May 30. Survived by his wife of 54 years Rosel, a niece, nephew and many friends. He will be sorely missed. Contributions in his name may be made to Metropolitan Council on Housing, 
 LIBERMAN-James B. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Berlack, Israels and Liberman LLP express their profound sorrow at the loss of their founding partner, dear colleague and friend Jim Liberman. In his over fifty years at the Firm, Jim exhibited a level of skill and dedication to the pr
 MOSELEY-Ronald G. Born January 10, 1935. Passed away after a long illness on June 24, 2000 in New York City. He is survived by his beloved children, Nicole, Tash and Ron Jr.; his stepchildren, Kwabana and Biko; his grandchildren, Jackson and Malloy; his brothers, James and Glenn; his sister
 REEMTSMA-Keith, M.D. Died on June 23. Beloved husband of Judy, loving father of Dirk and Lance, devoted grandfather of Blake Reemtsma and Melissa Cregg. Former Chairman of the Department of Surgery at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. A memorial service will be held on Monday, July 10, 
 SISKIND-William. The Board of Trustees, Staff and Faculty of Postgraduate Center for Mental Health note with sorrow the loss of William Siskind, father of our dear friend and colleague, Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive Vice President of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. W
 SWABACK-Stanley R. Passed away on June 24, 2000, at age 91. Survived by his beloved wife, Ruth Levy Swaback; sons, James and Richard; grandson, Robert; and great-grandson, Matthew. He held the position of General Merchandising Manager at Abraham & Straus. He was very deeply loved by his dev
 WELLER-Robert B. On June 23, 2000 at age 83. Beloved husband of Marjorie of 55 years. Father of Jonathan and David. Loving ''Poppy'' of Andrew, Robert & Margot. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., Monday, 3:30 PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may
 Peter McWilliams, a best-selling author of self-help books who fought for the medicinal use of marijuana, died June 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 50 and had AIDS and AIDS-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Mr. McWilliams caught the crest of the wave of the personal-computer rev
 Gerald J. Whitrow, a mathematician and philosopher who devoted much of his life to pondering the nature of time, died on June 2 in London. He was 87. He was fond of telling a story about the Russian poet Samuel Marshak visiting London before 1914. His English was imperfect, and he a
 Gen. Humberto Gordon, who commanded the Chilean secret police for seven years in Gen. Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, died on June 15 in his house near Santiago. He was 72. General Gordon had a heart attack while under house arrest, The Associated Press said. After having l
 Jerome Richardson, a saxophonist and flutist who was one of the most recorded musicians in the history of jazz and an original member of the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Orchestra, died on Friday at a hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Secaucus, N.J. Mr. Richardson was born 
 Louis Finkelstein, a painter, teacher and critic who was professor emeritus in the art department of Queens College, City University of New York, died last Tuesday at a Manhattan hospice. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Finkelstein was born in New York and studied at the Coope
 Lucien Laurin, who trained Secretariat, the 1973 Triple Crown winner who was perhaps the fastest thoroughbred that ever raced, died yesterday at a hospital in Miami. Laurin, who lived in Key Largo, Fla., was 88. He trained 36 stakes winners, he won an Eclipse Award as horse racing's
 Oliver DeGray Vanderbilt, a businessman and financier, died on Tuesday at Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. He was 85 and had lived in Hobe Sound, Fla., since 1983. Over the years, Mr. Vanderbilt was an executive of more than a dozen corporations, including Blair & Company, a 
 BLUHM-Leo A., Jr. On June 24, 2000 at age 85. World War II veteran. Survived by his nephews Donald and Charles Weil and cousin Maxine King. Interment private.       
 GOULD-Lawrence R. paased away on June 25, 2000, after a long illness. Age 85. Brilliant lawyer, inspiring speaker, patient advisor, beloved husband, cherished father, revered grandfather, loyal friend. Greatly respected, enormously loved. You were the steady ship that guided us through the 
 HODGSON-William J. Architect and designer, died in the week of June 19 from an apparent heart attack. A memorial service will be announced. Donations can be given to The House of the Redeemer, 7 East 95th St., NY, NY 10128 to complete his design work there.       
 LIBERMAN-James B. The Directors and Officers of GPU, Inc. mourn the passing of James B. Liberman, who for more than 50 years provided his wise counsel, persuasive advocacy and unlimited strength of purpose in good times and in bad. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Nadine, his dau
 LIEBLER-Dr. William A. With gratitude and love. He kept us dancing. Jane Kosminsky & Bruce Becker 5 by 2 Dance Company       
 MASIA-Samuel. Age 92, passed away in Nashville, Tn, June 23, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Lillian Steinberg Masia. He was formerly of Mount Vernon, N.Y. Retired to Lake Worth, Fla. in 1979. A doting and devoted father, he is survived by his daughters, Carol (Benjamin) Walter and Ara (A
 MINTZ-Herman. The Board of Directors, management, employees and affiliates of Asset Alliance Corporation wish to express our deepest sorrow to our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Arnold Mintz, on the passing of his father, Herman Mintz, a loving husband, father and gra
 NORGREN-Irving A. Age 87. Died in Brooklyn, June 24, 2000. Devoted husband of Margaret. Loving uncle to Johanna, Peter and Constance. Partner in Norgren Printing for most of his life. Memorial service to be held Saturday, July 1st, 6PM at Christ Evangelical Lutheran Church, 1070 59 St, Bkly
 RABINOWITZ - Benjamin. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the death of Benjamin Rabinowitz. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife Ruth, son Stanley, and our good friends, daughter Phyllis and son-in-law Gerald Yabl
 SPATZ-Theodore. Passed away on June 24, 2000 at his home in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.Beloved husband of the late Beverly C. Spatz, adored father of Gail Spatz-Krischer and cherished father-in-law of Kenneth Krischer, MD. Brother of Dorothy Waldman, the late Leo Spatz and the late Bella Kahane. A
 TOLLETT-Clovis Yancey. On June 25, 2000 at age 86. Stockbroker and veteran of World War II. Captain in 101st Airborne, he participated in Normandy Invasion and Battle of the Bulge. Beloved husband of the late Gloria and loving father of Clovis Carey and Sharon Riley and grandfather of three
 Bill Papas, an artist and political cartoonist whose work was syndicated worldwide, died on June 19 in an airplane accident in British Columbia, Canada. He was 73 and lived in Portland, Ore. Mr. Papas, who had been fishing with a group of friends, drowned when the float plane on whi
 Joseph Jerome Ruvane Jr., a pharmaceuticals executive who capped 50 years in the industry by helping turn Glaxo Inc. into America's fastest-growing major drug company, died last Wednesday at a hospital in Durham, N.C., where he lived. He was 75. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his 
 Dr. Keith Reemtsma, who in 1964 transplanted a kidney from a chimpanzee to a woman who then lived with it for nine months, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. In addition to performing cross-species transplants, known as xenotransplantation, Dr. Reemtsma was an exper
 BLACK-Arnold. Musician, composer/violinist, Founder and Artistic Director of Mohawk Trail Concerts Chamber Music Series in Western Massachusetts died suddenly and peacefully at his home Charlemont, MA, June 24, aged 77. Beloved husband of Ruth, adored father of Hilary, he was predeceased by
 COURTNEY-Martin 79, graduate of St. John's University and Columbia University. Worked for the Catholic Church as a fund raiser throughout the United States. Veteran of the US Army serving in the CBI Theater during WW II. Survived by his beloved wife Dorothy. Mass of the Resurrection Sat. 10
 GOULD-Lawrence R. Passed away on June 25, 2000, after a long illness. Age 85. Brilliant lawyer, inspiring speaker, patient advisor, beloved husband, cherished father, revered grandfather, loyal friend. Greatly respected, enormously loved. You were the steady ship that guided us through the 
 KLEIN-Theodore ''Ted'', on June 27 at NYU Medical Center, NYC. President of Ted Klein & Company, a New York public relations firm specializing in health and medical issues, and founder of Medical Marketing Distaff (MMD), which was acquired by Snyder Communications in 1998. Ted leaves a grie
 KOLLIGS-George W., 71, of Chester, New York. Retired pressman for New York Times, on June 26th at his residence, son of the late Robert & Emily Boucher Kolligs, loving husband of Lois, (nee McComiskey), devoted father of Dennis & Wayne Kolligs. Beloved brother of Robert Kolligs & Evelyn Bra
 MEAGHER-Cormac K. of Hollywood beach, Fla. and SAG HARBOR NY, formerly of Manhasset NY passed away peacefully on June 26th. Cormac was the devoted husband of Peggy for 61 years and loving father of Brendan, Cathy, Kieran, Declan and Brian. He was a loving grandfather of ten grandchildren an
 REEMTSMA-Keith. The faculty and staff of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and the New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Keith Reemtsma. Internationally recognized as a pioneer of organ transplants and transplantation immunolo
 ROYER-Jim. Former long time Pro Personnel Director of the New York Jets and beloved husband of Linda and father of Brian and Jamie. Spent 20 years with the Jets before retiring in 1996, with a total of 25 years working in the NFL as a scout and coach. A 1957 graduate of the U.S. Naval Acade
 SEGAL-Steven F., on June 25th, 2000. Beloved husband of Linda nee Polase. He is survived by many co-workers who were friends, but in his eyes, considered family. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, 11-1, at Krtil Funeral Home; Yorkville Funeral Service, Inc., 1297 1st Ave., NYC, 21
 STERN-Isfried. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of Isfried Stern, beloved father of our member, Florence Litwin. We express profound condolences to his wife, children, their spouses, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jer
 Auxiliary Bishop Austin B. Vaughan, who found himself in a brief but public dispute over abortion with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo a decade ago, died on Sunday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. He was 72 and lived in Yonkers. Bishop Vaughan, who had been on sick leave for several years, 
 Hanna Batatu, an authority on the contemporary Arab world who was best known for his writings on Iraq and Syria, died on Saturday at his home in Litchfield County in northwestern Connecticut. He was 74. He had cancer, Georgetown University's Center for Contemporary Arab Studies said
 Larry Kelley, the Yale University end who won the Heisman Trophy in 1936, then found himself back in the public eye six months ago when he sold the statuette at auction for $328,100, died Tuesday at his home in Hightstown, N.J., of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. He was 85.       
 BOTWINICK - Benjamin. Died peacefully today June 28, 2000. Beloved husband of Bessie. Loving father of Edward Botwinick and Elaine Wolfensohn. Cherished grandfather of Sara, Naomi, Adam, Andrew & Eric. He will be remembered for his love and generosity of spirit, his extraordinary intellect 
 DIVINEY-Msgr. Charles E. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of Pastor Emeritus of Saint Charles Borromeo Church, 21 Sidney Place, Brooklyn, on June 28. He also served as the Vicar General of the Diocese of Brooklyn from 1965 to 1978. Reposing at Queen of Peace Residence, 110-30 221
 FARN-Gary. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Fragrance Foundation express their sorrow at the untimely loss of their longtime dedicated member, friend and respected business colleague. His many contributions, both personal and professional, will be greatly missed and long remembered. 
 GOLDBERG-Nathan, M.D., age 92, on June 28, 2000. First doctor in Stuyvesant Town, dedicated physician for 55 years. Predeceased by Rose, his wife of 47 years. Survived and missed by his daughter Joan Udell of NYC, son Dr. Paul Goldberg, and daughter-in-law Caren, of Stamford, CT; grandchild
 GRENADER-Max. Devoted son of the late Esadore and Ida. On June 21 at the age of 77. Max was a native of Houston, Texas. He moved to Manhattan 54 years ago. He worked as an office manager and was well travelled and thoroughly loved the fine arts. He is survived by Harriet and Joseph, Joan an
 HERSHAFT-Fred. Beloved husband of Julia. Loving father of Victor & Yvette Hershaft and Howard Hershaft. Dear brother of Phillip. Cherished grandfather of Andrew (Jennifer) & Michael. Mr. Hershaft was co-founder and director emeritus of Paxar Corporation of White Plains, N.Y. Service today, 
 HESS-Lillian. On June 27, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Jean, George, Alexandra, Helene and Virginia. Dear mother-in-law of Dave, Robert and Michael. Dear sister of Mary. Cherished grandmother of Joseph and his wife Patricia and Denise. Great grandmother of Kristen 
 JONES-Uriah, 75, of 92 Hinman St., West Haven, CT died June 14, 2000. He had worked for the City of New Haven in the engineering department. He had served as a merchant marine. Mr. Jones, an Olympic Fencing Champion, officially ranked among America's 10 best fencers for 10 consecutive years
 KERTZNER-Leonard H., M.D. 82, on June 28, 2000. Passed away after a long illness in the loving company of his family. Loving father, husband, grandfather, and uncle. Prominent physician in the community. He was a Pulitzer Scholar, served as Chief of Internal Medicine at Southside Hospital, 
 KLEIN-Theodore ''Ted'', on June 27 at NYU Medical Center, NYC. President of Ted Klein & Company, a New York public relations firm specializing in health and medical issues, and founder of Medical Marketing Distaff (MMD), which was acquired by Snyder Communications in 1998. Ted leaves a grie
 MEAGHER-Cormac K. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Cormac K. Meagher, a Veteran Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian 
 PAKALNISKIS-Rev. John L. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of retired Pastor Emeritus of Annunciation Church, 259 North 5th St., Brooklyn, on June 26. Reposing at Shalins Funeral Home, 84-02 Jamaica Avenue, Woodhaven, NY on Thursday, June 29, from 2-5 & 7-9pm, and Friday, June 30,
 REEMTSMA-Keith. The Department of Transplantation at the University of Rome ''La Sapienza'' mourns the loss of Professor Keith Reemtsma, a great friend and colleague. Professor Keith Reemtsma has revolutionized the field of transplantation by successfully performing the first organ transpla
 SNITOW-Charles. Temple Shaaray Tefila records the death of its longtime member with sorrow. We extend heartfelt condolences to Virginia, Ann, Alan and all his family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President       
 Charles A. MacGillivary, who won the Medal of Honor as an Army sergeant for destroying four German machine-gun nests in France on a one-man patrol in the Battle of the Bulge, died on Saturday at a hospital in Boston. Mr. MacGillivary, who lost his left arm while silencing the last of the en
 Jim Royer, who for 20 years oversaw efforts by the New York Jets to assess and sign players on other National Football League teams, died Tuesday. He was 69. The cause was colon cancer. Royer joined the Jets in 1975, in what was the midst of a decade of futility. The Jets di
 COHEN-Haskell, a pioneer in the world of basketball, was the firstever contributing editor to PARADE magazine and the creator of its long-standing All-America High School sports teams. Mr. Cohen's influence in the sport of basketball is historic. As public relations director for the Nationa
 DAWSON-Edward Q. On June 29, 2000. Beloved husband of Marguerite (nee Houlihan). Devoted father of Mark E. and Stephaney Doring. Also survived by his loving grandchildren. Beloved brother of Margaret Gaul. Friends may call at The Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Avenue (at 20 St), NYC, Friday 
 ERDOS-Paul L. Age 86, died on June 28, 2000. He leaves his loving family: step-daughter Kathleen Mero Mogul and husband Louis Mogul; grandson Jeffrey C. Mogul and wife Patty Page; granddaughter Judith L. Mogul and husband Daniel Kramer and their three children Ilona, Hannah, Joshua; grandso
 FARN-Gary. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Fragrance Foundation express their sorrow at the untimely loss of their longtime dedicated member, friend and respected business colleague. His many contributions, both personal and professional, will be greatly missed and long remembered. 
 FELDMAN-Dr. Ronald. His untimely passing is a tragic loss to the world and everyone who was privileged to know this wonderful man. We are proud to have been his friends. Table Number Seven       
 GOLDSTEIN-Arthur David. Beloved husband of Muriel (nee Kessman). Deeply loved father of Rochelle and Mark Schaevitz, Jane and Gary Buscemi, Warren Goldstein and Victoria Spetter. Proud grandfather of Jessica, Samantha, Julia, Benjamin and Elisabeth. Cherished brother of Robert and Michael G
 HERSHAFT-Fred. The Board of Governors and members of Ridgeway Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Fred Hershaft. Our condolences to his wife, Julia and the Hershaft family.       
 HORWITZ-George. 80 of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Rochester New York, on June 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Joan (Kubie) Horwitz; Loving father of John and Joanne Horwitz, and stepfather of Donald, David and Kenneth Kubie; Cherished grandfather of 10; Dear brother of Arthur, James and t
 LOHR-Steve. Devoted husband of Ruth, died suddenly on June 21st. Steve embraced life with rare zest and great joy and optimism. He will be sorely missed and always remembered by all those who had the opportunity to have known him. Sincere sympathies to Ruth. A friend       
 PAVLAKIS-Jim. The Estee Lauder Companies mourns the untimely passing of Jim Pavlakis, Vice President, Business Operations, Aveda, who died suddenly Wednedsay, June 28, at his home in New York. ''Jim was a valued colleague and friend to everyone,'' stated Jeanette S. Wagner, Vice Chairman, T
 PERSICO-Alfred. To Mother, Evelyn, George, Alfred, Gerald, Anthony and Sally: Thank you for sharing Freddie with me. He was your husband and father, but he became a father to me, whom I loved and will miss dearly. He and all of you are in my prayers. With deepest sympathy, Dave.       
 SNITOW-Charles. The Hunter College community sends its deepest sympathies to Virginia Snitow and family on the death of her beloved husband, Charles. With Virginia, he was a good friend to Hunter. Our thoughts are with the family. David A. Caputo, President Hunter College SNITOW-Charles. Th
 Pierre Pflimlin, a French politician who promoted Western Europe's postwar reconciliation and briefly, as prime minister, had to cope with the uprising in Algeria and the imperial temper of Charles de Gaulle, died Tuesday in Strasbourg. He was 93. Mr. Pflimlin had served as mayor of
 Tobin Rote, an outstanding quarterback for 16 years in three professional football leagues and the architect in 1957 of the Detroit Lions' last National Football League championship, died Tuesday at a hospital in Saginaw, Mich. He was 72. His wife, Julie, said he suffered a heart at
 Vittorio Gassman, a versatile film star who was also one of Italy's leading classical stage actors, died yesterday in his home in Rome. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said his agent, Franca Rodolfi. In a career that lasted more than 50 years, Mr. Gassman was expert
 William S. Blair, a former publisher of Harper's magazine and co-founder of Country Journal, died on June 21 at a retirement home in Peterborough, N.H. He was 82. It was at Harper's, in 1971, that Mr. Blair clashed with the younger editor in chief, Willie Morris, over declining circ
