 Merwin Bayer, a former president and chief executive of the Arnold Constable Corporation, the operator of what was long one of New York's finest luxury department stores, died Jan. 22 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Bayer, who lived in Manhattan, spent almost all
 ACIERNO--John L. Died peacefully on January 30, 2004. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. A gifted man who faced all obstacles with grace and dignity, his passing leaves an empty space in many hearts. His generous spirit will live on in all who knew him. The family will receiv
 BLUMBERG--Richard J. Rye, NY, attorney, folk art collector, fly fisherman, sailor and boisterous wit, died on January 29. Survived by his wife Jeanne, and their family, Peter, Tally, Alex and Nora, and his brother Robert, and his family. He will be greatly missed.       
 BREGMAN--Dr. Marvin A. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Marvin A. Bregman, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 DAHL--Norman C., Sc.D. Age 85. Died of Alzheimer's Disease January 11, 2004. Professor of Mechanical Engineering at MIT, he organized in 1961, a consortium of nine American universities to assist the new Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, India and served there until 1964. He joined 
 DAVIDOFF -- Dr. Earle. Passed away on January 27. He was 80 years old and is survived by his three sons and seven grandchildren. Dr. Davidoff was an extraordinary dentist who practiced in New York for almost 50 years. He will be missed and loved by us all.       
 GLASSER--Arthur. 70, of Fort Lee, NJ, died on January 31, 2004, from lung cancer. Beloved husband of Evelyn April Glasser. Father of A. David (Eileen), Neil A. (Kathleen) and L. Bruce Glasser. Brother of Rita Musante (Gerry) of North Carolina, and brother-in-law of Dr. Paul April (Helen) of
 GUDEFIN--Michel J., 80, on January 26, 2004, after a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of Claire, adored father of Christine and Michael, father-in-law of Manuel Villas-Boas and Gretchen, cherished grandfather of Antonio and Alexandre and caring brother and uncle. His strength and love wil
 HARTH--Robert. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Robert Harth, our beloved Executive and Artistic Director, and dear friend. The Carnegie Hall family extends their heartfelt condolences to his parents, Sidney Harth and Teresa Testa
 HARVEY--Robert W. Former member of the Board of Directors and Executive Vice President of the Prudential Insurance Company, responsible for all sales activities, group insurance and group annuities, and planning and development, died on Monday, at a rehabilitation facility in Jupiter, FL. H
 ISLER--Lloyd I. Of Paradise Valley, AZ and Scarsdale, NY, on January 29, 2004. Born March 1, 1919 and graduated from Brooklyn College 1937. He received his law degree from Fordham Law School in 1942. He married Sylvia Kaplan on October 11, 1942 and practiced law for 50 years in Manhattan. T
 KAPLAN--Jack. Died January 28, 2004 in Delray Beach, FL, after a four-year battle with cancer. Kaplan, 82, was the quintessential ''Deli Man,'' creating Kaplan's at the Delmonico Delicatessen-Restaurant on 59th Street in New York, Jack Kaplan's on West 47th Street, and Kaplan's Olde New Yor
 KLEIN--Charles M. Cherished son of Leonard and Hannah (deceased) Klein. Beloved husband of Pat and brother of Dr. Doris and Dr. Mark Hiatt. Adored father and hero of Dr. Matthew Klein, Alyssa and Eric Maltz and Dayna and Erez Klein, Nancy and Ben Polakoff, Ted and Stacey Eisenhart. Loving g
 LITWIN--Harry. Passed away on January 30, 2004. Beloved and cherished husband of Margo. Loving father of Daniel (Georgia) and Elissa. Adoring grandpa of Rebecca and Jessica. WWII veteran and practicing attorney for 53 years. He was a man of exceptional intelligence, honor and sparkling humo
 MAYER--Dr. Egon, on January 30, at the age of 59. Beloved husband of Marcia Kramer Mayer. Devoted father of Daphne Mayer, Rena Kramer Fox and Danielle Kramer. Loving son of Hedy and the late Eugene Mayer. Dear brother of George. Cherished grandfather of Natalie and Grace. Leading sociologis
 MUNNELL--Dr. Equinn William, noted obstetrician and gynecological surgeon, pioneer in ovarian cancer, skilled teacher, and beloved father and husband to his family, died on January 21, 2004. Born 1913, he was Emeritus Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Columbia Presbyter
 OSTERWEIS--Steven L, age 91, of Sarasota, FL died January 23, 2004. Born on May 16, 1912 in NYC and moved to Sarasota in the late 1980's. Retired with the rank of Lt. Commander from the Navy 1945. BA from City College of NY Phi Beta Kappa, MBA Harvard. Worked at the US Securities and Exchan
 PERSONS--John Pat. Of Norfolk, CT and Vero Beach, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, died on January 29, 2004 from complications of Parkinson's Disease. He was born on October 21, 1926 in Gastonia, NC and grew up in Atlanta, GA. He received his BA from the University of North Carolina Chapel Hi
 ROOT--Milton I., 80. Of Las Vegas, NV. Died on January 25, 2004. Formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y. Survived by wife of 56 years Blanche, sons Ian, Wayne & Ronnie, daughtersin-law Sue and Robin. Grandsons Dylan and Brennan. Sister Laura, sisters-in-law Rhoda and Frieda and brothersin-law Carl and I
 SHEINKMAN--Jack. The administration and board of Amalgamated Bank mourns the death of Jack Sheinkman, former Chairman of the Bank and President of the Amalgamated Closing and Textile Workers Union (now known as UNITE!). An exceptional fighter for labor in the boardroom and on the ground, Mr
 BELFER--Ira, 1911-2001 With wisdom and humor, He offered us the richness Of his life. Belfer Family       
 Rob Roy Kelly, a graphic design educator, historian and collector whose influential book on the history of 19th-century American wood type prompted a major typographic revival in the 1970's, died on Jan. 22 in Tempe, Ariz. He was 78. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disea
 Robert J. Harth, the artistic and executive director of Carnegie Hall, who in just two years managed the storied institution through the economic downturn that followed the attack on the World Trade Center, as well as the opening of a new underground stage and merger negotiations with the N
 Robert C. Zampano, a retired senior judge of the federal bench in Connecticut renowned for his skill in resolving complex disputes, in or out of court, died on Jan. 12 in New Haven. He was 74 and lived in East Haven. His death was announced in mid-January by the Connecticut Bar Asso
 ACIERNO--John. We mourn the passing of our dear friend of many years. His strength and resolve in battling his illness will always be remembered. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Roberta and to the entire family. Aileen and Alvin       
 BREGMAN--Dr. Marvin A. Passed away at the age of 83, on January 31, 2004. Devoted husband of Dr. Grace Herman and the late Elaine Austrian. Brother of the late Oscar and Walter. Beloved father of Gloria Schulman and Dr. Marjorie Goldin. Adored grandfather of Jeffrey, Allison, Russell, Nancy
 HARTH--Robert J. On January 30, 2004, at age 47. Executive and artistic director, Carnegie Hall. Beloved son of Sidney & Teresa Harth. Loving brother of Laura Harth Rodriguez and brother-in-law of Francisco Rodriguez, uncle of Alexander Harth Rodriguez, Devoted companion of Stacey Buck and 
 JOSEPHSON--Alan S., M.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center commuity mourns the passing of Alan S. Josephson, M.D., Professor of Medicine and Chief of Allergy and Immunology. In his four decades at Downstate, he made enormous contributions to the health of the people of Brooklyn and trained 
 KLEIN -- Charles M. (''Chuck''). Suddenly on January 29. He was our valued associate for all of his adult life. He was cheerful, optimistic, energetic, capable, honorable and resourceful. We mourn his passing and extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving family. The Morgenstern Family 
 MAYER--Egon. The Jewish Outreach Institute notes with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved founding director, a pioneer in the field of outreach. His sensitive concern for the well-being of others provided a welcoming atmosphere for all those intermarried in the Jewish community. Whil
 QUIRK--William M. Of Tuckahoe, formerly of NYC, longtime publishing sales representative and manager, on February 1, after a long illness during which he never lost his sense of humor. Bill is survived by his wife Jane Collins and son Matthew. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Fune
 SHEINKMAN--Jack. The Officers and Directors of the Clothing Manufacturers Association of the USA mourn the passing of a tough but responsible and innovative union leader, and a compassionate humanitarian. As Past President of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, Jack was tena
 SIBEN--Sidney R. 92, died peacefully at home on January 30, of natural causes. Loving husband of the late Stella Suffin Siben. Beloved father of Stephen and Eileen Siben, Paul and Connie Zanini, David and Jacqueline Siben Manning. Adored grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of four. F
 TULLOCH--George. Of Fairfield, CT, the former Chairman of RMS Titanic, Inc., died January 31, 2004. Survived by his wife Cindy Briggs Tulloch; sons Tim and Matt, daughter Caroline; a sister, Jean Griffith and a brothe, Donald. Memorial service Saturday, February 7, at 10 am, at St. Michael 
 ASCHENDORF -- Jack. Be loved husband of Gladys. Devoted father of Ellen Aschendorf-Shasha, Kenneth and Steven. Dear brother of Isidore and Sima Kessel. Loving grandfather. Services Tuesday 12 noon ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'' 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave. ASCHENDORF--Jack. A true
 CLARK--Bronson P. A businessman and activist, was born in Ohio in 1917. He graduated from Antioch College and married Eleanor Meanor in 1941. A conscientious objector, he joined the American Friends Service Committee Ambulance Unit in China in WWII. Later also with the AFSC, he assisted ref
 GARFINKEL--Alexander, 82, of Southbury, CT. Died February 2, 2004. Graduated CCNY 1942, B.S., Social Services. Entered U.S. Army 1942; honorably discharged 1946, Staff Sergeant. Joined NYC Probation Department 1946; received MSW degree 1949, Columbia University School of Social Work. His 40
 HARTH--Robert. Columbia Artists Management Inc. is deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague, Robert Harth. Throughout his life he worked tirelessly to ensure that the music he loved so deeply would flourish and thrive. Robert's remarkable ability to inspire others, the streng
 KRYLE--Lawrence S., M.D. Of Roslyn Heights, NY, on February 1, 2004. Devoted husband of 55 years of Myra, and a loving father of Sandford (Sandy) & Lorraine. Beloved brother of Flora Hattenbach and brother-in-law of Leah Grossman Kantor. Cherished uncle, consummate & distinguished physician
 MORRIS--William Mack. Died quietly late last year at his home in Tampa, FL. A Memorial service will be held Saturday, February 7th at 1:30 P.M. at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Riverside, CT. Mack was the former President of LifeSavers Inc. and Mattel Electronics. He was co-founder and Pre
 NOTINE--Robert G., Jr. On February 2, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth (nee Lyons). Loving father of Dani Lyons, Robert G. III (Mary) and James. Dear brother of Jean Sullivan, Donald and the late William. Proud grandfather of six and great grandfather of nine. Longtime companion 
 PODUSKA--Howard J., 83, died on Monday, February 2, 2004 at his home in Middletown. After over 40 years of employment, he retired as the President of the Bank of New York in NYC. He was also on the Board of Directors of the Sterling Bank of NYC and the Glenview State Bank of Illinois. Visit
 POWER--Roger J., 75, peacefully at his home on January 26th in Moorestown, NJ. Navy veteran. Seton Hall alumnus. NYC newspaper ad sales executive, Sawyer Ferguson Walker, Million Markets and Newspapers First. Avid reader and sports fan. Active participant in swimming, tennis, golf and stren
 RUBENSTEIN--Joel Kopel. 67, died February 1, 2004. Joel is survived by his loving partner, Julie Diller, sons Jeffery and Todd, and deceased son Lee, stepchildren Ken and Cathie Diller and grandchildren Alyssa Lee, and Kevin. In liew of flowers, Donations may be made to Hoag Cancer Center, 
 SIBEN--Sidney R., 92, died peacefully at home on January 30, of natural causes. Loving husband of the late Stella Suffin Siben. Beloved father of Stephen and Eileen Siben, Paul and Connie Zanini, David and Jacqueline Siben Manning. Loving brother of Aaron Siben. Adored grandfather of seven 
 ZINBERG--Eugene. Beloved husband of Sheryl Parker, devoted father of David (Lynette), Helene and Adele, stepfather of Louise and Jim Parker, proud grandfather of Julia and Ben. An intellectual, caring, gentle man who will be missed by all who knew him. Services Wednesday, 11:15AM at ''The R
 CASAMASSIMA--Anthony J. On February 3, 2004 at age 89. Co-proprietor of Casamassima Ice Company. Beloved husband of Marie Casamassima. Loving father of Frances Boland, Claire Roberts and Marie Anne Casamassima and father-in-law of James Boland and Wayne Roberts. Cherished grandfather of Ant
 CONNORS--Henry Lloyd, 86, attorney. Survived by his loving wife Joan, children Lee and Steven, grandchildren Evan, Bradley & Michael, and sister Charlotte. Reposing at Ballard - Durand Funeral Home, 914-949-0566.       
 FERGUSON--Keith Arthur, age 38, Sergeant, NYPD, member of the elite Hercules Anti-terrorism squad of the Emergency Service Unit, died on Saturday, January 31st after collapsing suddenly in Soho while assisting other officers in apprehending a suspect after a short foot chase. Ferguson was a
 GARCIA--Celso-Ramon, M.D. Suddenly on February 1, 2004. Of Merion Station, PA. Beloved husband of the late Shirley (nee Stoddard), dear father of Celso-Ramon Garcia, Jr., MSN and Sarita G. Cole, M.Ed., brother of Edward Garcia, M.D. and Oliva Ibanez. Also survived by his four grandchildren,
 GRANT--George Vincent. A lifelong resident of NYC, August 15, 1921--January 30, 2004. He served as a squad leader in WWII and earned three Bronze Stars during his tour of duty in Sicily and North Africa. In 1953 he joined the NYPD and moved through the ranks from patrolman to detective serg
 HARRIS--Jeff Steve. Age 68. Unhappy with Mets post-season acquisitions and current Ranger goaltending, passed away in his sleep at his home in Easthampton on February 2. True cause of death was Emphysema. His memory will live on in the hearts of many: his beloved wife of 40 years, Judy, son
 HARTH--Robert J. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Symphony Orchestra League extend our sincere condolences to the family, friends, and colleagues of our fellow board member, Robert J. Harth. We are all deeply indebted to his invaluable service to classical music and America'
 KRAUSS--Walter, 92. Died on Monday, February 2, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife, Henrietta, his son, David, daughter-in-law, Judy, his sister, Lucille Reifman, his two adoring grandchildren, Lisa and Eli. Graveside funeral services Wednesday, February 4 at the Wellwood Cemetery, Pin
 LEVY--Marvin W. We mourn the death of our beloved partner, respected colleague and dear friend who died peacefully at home on February 1st, 2004. A distinguished member of the Bar for over fifty years, he practiced law with us for the past twenty. Prior to that, he served for many years as 
 MILLER--Benjamin L. We share the sorrow of our partner, Kenneth J. Miller, on the passing of his father, Benjamin L. Miller, who fought his illness with dignity and with the support of his family, particularly his wife, Dr. Ruth Avers Miller. We extend our deepest condolences to Ken, his mo
 POSMAN--Herman (Hy). On February 2, 2004, at the age of 91, five weeks after the death of his beloved wife Jean of 63 years. Loving father of Linda, Jerry and his wife Eva. Devoted grandfather of Ellen, Eric and Kris. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, February 4, 2004, 10 AM ''Pla
 POWER--Roger J., 75, peacefully at his home on January 26th in Moorestown, NJ. Navy veteran. Seton Hall alumnus. NYC newspaper ad sales executive, Sawyer Ferguson Walker, Million Markets and Newspapers First. Avid reader and sports fan. Active participant in swimming, tennis, golf and stren
 RAISKIN--Samuel M. Age 81, of Boca Raton, Florida. Died February 1, 2004 in his son's home in Brandon, Florida, surrounded by his family. He is survived by his wife Elayne (Penny), brother Rabbi Gerald Raiskin and his three sons Jonathan, Richard and David. A devoted and extraordinary husba
 SHEINKMAN -- Jack. The Board of Directors and Staff of the International Rescue Committee are saddened by the death of Jack Scheinkman, a valued member of our Board from 1964-2002. Jack was a tireless leader in the cause of international human rights and of refugees uprooted by oppressive d
 WEBER--Murray. On February 2, 2004, beloved husband of Joan and the late Iris, loving father of Robin and Susan, stepfather of Robin and Lori, dear brother of Naomi, adoring grandfather of Alexander and Gregory. Family will receive on Thursday 11:15 A.M to 1 P.M. at ''The Riverside'' 76th S
 WESSON--Howard Sheldon. Of West Orange, NJ. Died on February 1st in New York City after a six-month battle with pancreatic cancer. Born and raised in the Bronx, he was among the first students to attend the Bronx High School of Science. After graduating high school, he entered the Army and 
 Alan Bullock, one of Britain's foremost historians, whose early biography of Hitler became a scholarly yardstick on the subject, died on Monday in Oxfordshire, England. He was 89. His death was announced by Oxford University, where he wrote and taught as the founding master of St. C
 CASAMASSIMA--Anthony J. On February 3, 2004 at age 89. Co-proprietor of Casamassima Ice Company. Beloved husband of Marie Casamassima. Loving father of Frances Boland, Claire Roberts and Marie Anne Casamassima and father-in-law of James Boland and Wayne Roberts. Cherished grandfather of Ant
 CONNORS--Henry Lloyd., 86, attorney. Survived by his loving wife Joan, children Lee and Steven, grandchildren Evan, Bradley & Michael, and sister Charlotte. Reposing at Ballard - Durand Funeral Home, 914-949-0566.       
 DALSHEIM--Edwin A., 77, leaves behind a family who loved him very much. He was a patriot, historian, and business man who was blessed with a ferocious sense of humor. He lived life exactly as he chose, honestly.       
 DILLON--George Burford, of Manchester, died Thursday, January 29, 2004 at New Brunswick, NJ. Born in Chicago, he lived in Teaneck, before moving to Manchester in 1984. He was a decorated Army veteran, serving during World War II. He was an insurance broker with Marsh McLennan, NY, NY for ma
 FRANCAIS--Jacques Pierre. Died on February 4, 2004 in New York City at the age of 80 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. He is survived by his wife Beatrice Mathews Francais, his daughter Isabelle Francais, his granddaughter Daniella Valentine Saarma and two stepdaughters Hilary a
 HARTH--Robert. The Rodgers family and the Hammerstein family join the R & H Organization in mourning the passing of our friend and colleague, Robert Harth. He arrived in time to shepherd ''Carousel'' to triumph, and we were looking forward to future collaborations. He shall be missed.      
 MILLER--Benjamin L. We share the sorrow of our partner, Kenneth J. Miller, on the passing of his father, Benjamin L. Miller, who fought his illness with dignity and with the support of his family, particularly his wife, Dr. Ruth Avers Miller. We extend our deepest condolences to Ken, his mo
 SOCHOLITZKY -- Sidney (Soch), 91, of Oakland, CA. formerly of Roosevelt, NJ died Wednesday, January 28. Husband of Hortense (Honey), father of David and Elinor. Father-in-law of Sandy Niemann, grandfather of Sophie. He was a history buff, a fighter for civil rights and the rights of working
 TESSIER--John O., Esq. on February 2, 2004 of Laurel Hollow and Manorville, NY. Beloved husband of the late Charlotte. Devoted father of Elizabeth (Betsy) O'Connor of Huntington, NY and Carol of Dallas, TX. Dear father-inlaw of William F. O'Connor III. Cherished grandfather of Nora, John an
 TRIMBLE--Henry Weeks, Jr., Esq. Longtime resident of New York City was born June 6, 1920 in Montclair, N.J. and died January 31, 2004 from complications following surgery. Henry graduated from Princeton University, Yale University Law School and Harvard Business School. He served in the U.S
 WEBER--Murray. On February 2, 2004, beloved husband of Joan and the late Iris, loving father of Robin and Susan, stepfather of Robin and Lori, dear brother of Naomi, adoring grandfather of Alexander and Gregory. Family will receive on Thursday 11:15 A.M to 1 P.M. at ''The Riverside'' 76th S
 WESSON--Howard Sheldon. Of West Orange, NJ. Died on February 1st in New York City after a six-month battle with pancreatic cancer. Born and raised in the Bronx, he was among the first students to attend the Bronx High School of Science. After graduating high school, he entered the Army and 
 Warren Zimmermann, the last American ambassador to Yugoslavia, who held senior diplomatic posts in several other countries, died Tuesday at his home in Great Falls, Va. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his son, Tim. Mr. Zimmermann served in a united Yugoslavi
 Adm. Thomas Hinman Moorer, a World War II hero who was appointed chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff by President Richard M. Nixon, died on Thursday in the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., the Department of Defense said. He was 91. A 41-year veteran of the Navy, Adm
 James J. Jordan Jr., widely considered one of the premier sloganeers of Madison Avenue, who popularized brands like Schaefer beer and Wisk detergent, died Wednesday while snorkeling on a vacation in the Virgin Islands with his wife, Mary Helen. He was 73 and lived in White Plains. D
 BALAKRISHNAN -- Saidapet, L., M.D., F.A.A.P., F.A.C.E.P., a physician for 44 years, passed away on January 31, 2004 at his home in Orangeburg, New York, with his family at his side. He was 67. In his professional career, he dedicated all of his efforts to improving the health care of people
 CONLAN--Richard J., 62, of Larchmont, NY, died on February 4, 2004. Devoted husband to Denise, loving father to Martha (Andy) Meyerson, Sharyn (Tim) Boswell, Peter (deceased), Matthew and Maureen, proud grandfather of Keara, Peter and Alexander, and brother to Edward and Gregory. Dick was a
 FRANCAIS--Jacques Pierre. Died on February 4, 2004 in New York City at the age of 80 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. He is survived by his wife Beatrice Mathews Francais, his daughter Isabelle Francais, his granddaughter Daniella Valentine Saarma and two stepdaughters Hilary a
 JABEN--Seth Paul, 47, of New York City, NY, died December 19, 2003 from complications of AIDS. He graduated from the Rhode Island School of Design and operated his own illustration and design studio in New York City. His surrealist designs have appeared in The New York Times, Newsweek and o
 MELNICK--Evelyn. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Evelyn Melnick, beloved mother of Michael Melnick. The Melnicks have long been cherished friends of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to Michael and his wife, Barba
 ROSENTHAL--Paul Andrew on February 4, 2004. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Hailey and Jordan. Cherished son of Lawrence and Bette Sue. Dear brother of Marc. Services Friday, 11:30 am at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. ROSENTHAL -- Paul. The Board of Gover
 SCHWARTZ--Sidney, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Roslyn Heights, NY, at age 84. Loving husband of Frances and father of Jayson (Beth) and Sam (Mindy), adored grandfather of Jonathan, Adam, Jaclyn and Mikey. Services Friday, February 6, 10 A.M., at the ''RiversideNassau North Chapels'', 55 N
 SOCHOLITZKY -- Sidney (Soch), 91, of Oakland, CA. formerly of Roosevelt, NJ died Wednesday, January 28. Husband of Hortense (Honey), father of David and Elinor. Father-in-law of Sandy Niemann, grandfather of Sophie. He was a history buff, a fighter for civil rights and the rights of working
 STRAUS--Philip A. Sr. Of Mamaroneck, NY died on February 4, 2004 at the age of 88. Born in New York City in 1915 to Albert and Hilda Fisher Straus, Mr. Straus was a graduate of Fieldston High School and Harvard University, majoring in Economics. After serving in Italy with the US Army Air F
 WEINSTOCK--Edward. It is with sadness that we announce his passing on February 4, 2004, two days past his 79th birthday. CEO of Edley Associates. Husband of Hortley, father of Andrew and Regina, Debra and Neil (Gershman), grandfather of Michael, Alyssa, Ari and Rachel. Brother of Emma (Shap
 Fuad Rouhani, who as the first secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries brought a cool, technocratic approach to oil price negotiations, died Jan. 30 in London. He was 96. He died in the nursing home where he had lived in recent years, a son-in-law,
 BARR--Donald, died February 5. Noted author and educator. Former teacher and administrator at Columbia University, where he founded the Science Honors Program. Former Headmaster of The Dalton School and Hackley School. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 53 years, Mary Ahern Barr. Survived b
 BAUM--Barry. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President       
 BEAN--Rev. Dr. George Martin, died Saturday, January 31, 2004, at his home in Lynchburg, VA, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Betty Lee Cleveland Bean, two daughters, Tracy Bean Kenny of Charlottesville, VA, and Lee Randolph Bean of Palo Alto, CA. One son, Willi
 DeROSA--Pat. The Officers, Governors and members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Pat DeRosa on February 6, 2004. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held February 7th and 8th, at the Vernon C. Wagner Funeral Home, 655 
 DIAMOND--Peter J. On February 5, 2004. Devoted son of Catherine. Loving brother of Thomas. Dearest uncle to Kerry. Always gentle and loving and with a passion for learning, he will be missed by all who were touched by his life. Visitation on Sunday, 2-4, 7-9 PM at Walter B. Cooke, Funeral H
 EDELMAN--Jules. Of Columbus, NJ, formerly of Teaneck, NJ. On February 5, 2004. He is survived by his wife Lola (nee Sternberg). Devoted father of Andrew and Susan, Janis and Joel, and Mitchell and Leah. He is also survived by his sisters Roslyn Lerner and Minna Metz. Loving grandfather of Z
 FRANCAIS--Jacques. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend. His kindness and warmth will be sorely missed. Susan Wadsworth Young Concert Artists, Inc.       
 GILLIES--James Perry, Jr. Age 87, of Fairfield, CT. and Wellfleet, MA, retired President of Warnaco International, died Monday, February 2, 2004. Graduate of Yale University, Class of 1938. Survived by his wife of 63 years, Aline Paige Cornwall Gillies, his children, Paige C. Gillies, Gail 
 JORDAN--James J. Jr., 73, of White Plains, died February 4. He will be deeply missed by wife Mary Helen; children J.J., Mike, Mary Beth, Tom, Jennifer, Anne, Laurie, his sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, and eleven adoring grandchildren. Visiting hours Sunday and Monday 2-4 and 6-9 at McMahon,
 ROSENTHAL -- Paul. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Barbara, his children Hailey, Jordan, and to in-laws Linda and Steven Lowenthal and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, 
 SMITH--Wesley Bunnell age 70 of Ridgewood, NJ formerly of Rutherford, NJ and Succasunna, NJ died on Thursday February 5, 2004. Mr. Smith was born in Passaic, NJ. A graduate of Harvard Law School, who first practiced at Dewey Ballantine, but soon left the firm to join his father's firm in or
 STRAUS--Philip A. Sr. Of Mamaroneck, NY died on February 4, 2004 at the age of 88. Born in New York City in 1915 to Albert and Hilda Fisher Straus, Mr. Straus was a graduate of Fieldston High School and Harvard University, majoring in Economics. After serving in Italy with the US Army Air F
 WINTER--Al. Beloved husband of Natalie. Devoted father of David (Tamar) and Paul (Jackie). Adored grandfather of Ilana, Tali, Benjamin, Lili and Ray. Dear brother of the late William ''Big Al''. Cherished his family and inspired all who knew and loved him. Services Sunday 12:15 PM ''Sinai C
 Adm. Thomas H. Moorer, a World War II hero who was appointed chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff by President Richard M. Nixon, died on Thursday in the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., the Defense Department said. He was 91. A 41-year veteran of the Navy, Admiral Mo
 Jacques Francais, a dealer in classical string instruments who with a glance could authenticate a Stradivarius worth millions and then often match it with its next player, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Beatri
 Oswald Garrison Villard Jr., a pioneer in the development of radar able to see over the horizon, died on Jan. 7 in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 87. He died at a nursing home, said his daughter, Barbara Suzanne Villard of Tucson. Dr. Villard, an electronics engineer, parlayed his
 BARR--Donald, died February 5. Noted author and educator. Former teacher and administrator at Columbia University, where he founded the Science Honors Program. Former Headmaster of The Dalton School and Hackley School. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 53 years, Mary Ahern Barr. Survived b
 BERMAN--Carroll Z., M.D. On January 29, 2004 in Miami. Taught and practiced medicine for over 50 years. A founding member of the Society for Pediatric Radiology. Survived by his wife Mona, his daughters Marcie and Laura, and two grandchildren. The family would appreciate donations to the Mi
 BROWNE--Morgan T. 84. Sarasota, FL, died January 7, 2004, at Sarasota Memorial Hospital after a brief illness. He was born in Chestertown, MD, and came to Sarasota in 1989 when he retired as President of Bill Communications. He was past chairman of the American Business Press and was on the
 ELIKANN--Larry, died February 4, 2004. One of the most creative geniuses in television--one of the first cameramen on the original, live TV show, Philco Playhouse, with a career that spanned 55 years, his last 40 years as a director. An Emmy, Peabody, eight Christophers, three Humanitas, fi
 FOSTER--Hallett P., age 93, died February 5 in Gladwyne, PA. Beloved husband of the late Virginia C. Foster (nee Callow) and Gwen Foster (nee Minton). Dear father of John H. Foster (Lynn A.) of NY, NY. Loving grandfather of Laing F. Rikkers (John) and Virginia B. (Ginna) Foster, both of New
 FRANCAIS--Jacques Pierre. Died on February 4, 2004 in New York City at the age of 80 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. He is survived by his wife Beatrice Mathews Francais, his daughter Isabelle Francais, his granddaughter Daniella Valentine Saarma and two stepdaughters Hilary a
 FRANCIS--Martin. Died on February 7, 2004, at the age of 87. He was born and educated in New York City, served with distinction in the United States Army in France and Germany during World War II and spent his business career in the menswear industry. He was the loving husband of Esther for
 GORDON--Kenneth T., 87, of Sea Island, GA., formerly of Essex Fells, NJ, died on February 5, 2004. He was loved and will be missed by many.       
 HARTH--Robert. His song will continue....................... Marilyn Horne and the Trustees and Staff of The Marilyn Horne Foundation       
 JORDAN--James J. Jr., 73, of White Plains, died February 4. He will be deeply missed by wife Mary Helen; children J.J., Mike, Mary Beth, Tom, Jennifer, Anne, Laurie, his sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, and eleven adoring grandchildren. Visiting hours Sunday and Monday 2-4 and 6-9 at McMahon,
 KEMP--Jim. Former editor of House Beautiful Special Editions, writer of seven books, suddenly on December 6, 2003 in Corsicana, TX where he had gone to care for his mother. Burial service February 14th, 11AM, at the Church of St. Luke in the Fields, 487 Hudson Street. A reception will follo
 McCAFFREY--James Peter, 69, of Orlando, Florida, formerly of Weston, Connecticut, Key Largo, Florida, and Salisbury, Connecticut, died peacefully with his children by his side on Friday, January 30th, at the Sand Lake Hospital in Orlando. Born in Detroit, Michigan, on April 2, 1934, and rai
 MOSHMAN--Jerome S. On February 7th, 2004, the day of his 89th birthday, following a brief illness. Jerome, who lived in Brooklyn his entire life, attended City College and NYU Law School. After serving in France, Germany, and the Pacific during WWII, he entered law practice and continued un
 RAISKIN--Samuel M. Age 81, of Boca Raton, Florida. Died February 1, 2004 in his son's home in Brandon, Florida, surrounded by his family. He is survived by his wife Elayne (Penny), brother Rabbi Gerald Raiskin and his three sons Jonathan, Richard and David. A devoted and extraordinary husba
 ROSENTHAL--Paul. The entire Royce Hosiery family mourns the passing of Paul Rosenthal, Vice President Information Technology. Paul was a most valuable member of the Royce team for over a decade. Paul, through his diligent and organized approach, developed business systems that have enabled 
 SERETAN--Edward L., M.D., The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. William G. Stein, M.D., President Barry D. Stimmel, M.D. Vice President Elliot J.
 STRAUS--Philip A. Sr. Of Mamaroneck, NY died on February 4, 2004 at the age of 88. Born in New York City in 1915 to Albert and Hilda Fisher Straus, Mr. Straus was a graduate of Fieldston High School and Harvard University, majoring in Economics. After serving in Italy with the US Army Air F
 WILSON--Donald E. On February 6, 2004, in Manchester, NJ. Born September 27, 1921. Graduated Stuyvesant H.S. and NYU. Served in WWII as Master Sgt. in 1st Division. Awarded Silver Star for bravery on Omaha Beach on D-Day, Purple Heart and Bronze Star. Retired sales executive at American Cya
 GETTINGER--Dr. Milton M. Tomorrow marks the second anniversary of Milton's passing; his memory and presence will have a permanent place in the Milton Gettinger M.D. Study Center at Lenox Hill Hospital. The Gettinger Family       
 PERLBINDER--Arnold. Each memory is cherished by the family that adores him. Grayce Perlbinder       
 Ward Jackson, a New York abstract painter and a longtime archivist at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, died on Feb. 3 in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was congestive heart disease, his nephew Julian Jackson said. Inspired by painters like Piet Mondrian and Josef Albers, M
 Harold Shapinsky, an Abstract Expressionist whose paintings remained largely unappreciated until late in his career, died on Jan. 31 in Rockville, Md. He was 78. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his son, David, said. Many of the giants of Abstract Expres
 Jerome F. Lederer, an aviation safety expert who introduced blinking anticollision lights and flight data recorders to aircraft, helped create many of the regulations promoting safe air travel and was NASA's first director of manned space flight safety, died Friday, at a hospital in Laguna 
 The jazz bassist Malachi Favors, for 35 years a member of the Art Ensemble of Chicago, died on Jan. 30 in Chicago. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter, Malba Favors Allen. A remarkable group that combined traditional elements of jazz and blues, West
 Nicholas Richard Doman, a New York lawyer who wrote about international law and politics, died on Jan. 25 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, his family said. He was 90 and also lived on Shelter Island. Mr. Doman specialized in wills and estates and in pursuing the rest
 CORWIN--Erwin (Ed) L. 76, a wonderful and loving man. Beloved husband of Judith, devoted father of Sara, Michael (Jamie) and loving grandfather of Shane. Survived by nieces Bonnie Blum, Debra Goldfarb, Heidi Oshin, and nephew Matthew Bogin. He will be missed by his sister-in-law and brother
 HARRIS--Leonard A. 92, died Friday, in Norwalk, CT. Mr. Harris was a retired editor of the Norwalk Hour and served the City of Norwalk as a fire commissioner, a shellfish commissioner and Second Taxing District Commissioner. He also was a member of the Planning Commission and advisory panel
 MOSHMAN--Jerome. Congegation Mount Sinai mourns the passing of one of the most beloved members of its family, Jerome Moshman. Jerry faithfully served as a past president and earned the respected title of ''Shul Mensch.'' We, his synagogue family, join with the entire Moshman family in remem
 OGRIN--Les. Died February 7, 2004. He lived his own life and he lived it well, filled with music, with accomplishments, with love which he unselfishly shared with the rest of us. How blessed we were to be family and have him in our lives. Our time together was too short--good times always a
 PELLER--Leo. Of White Plains, NY, on February 8th. Survived by sons David and Richard, and grandchildren Sarah, Carly, Stephanie and Scott. Predeceased by his wife Toby. Service 12:30 pm, February 10, at Hawthorne Funeral Home, 21 Stevens Ave, Hawthorne, NY.       
 STRAUS--Philip. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Philip Straus, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 Samuel M. Rubin, who was known as ''Sam the Popcorn Man'' for making popcorn almost as popular in New York City movie theaters as jokes and kisses, died on Thursday. He was 85. He died in Boynton Beach, Fla., his daughter, Karen Rubin, said. Movies had prospered without popc
 William Herrick, author of 10 novels and a memoir, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Old Chatham, N.Y. He was 89. The death was reported by Jonathan Goodman-Herrick, his son. Mr. Herrick, who was among the Abraham Lincoln Brigade of American volunteers who fought Francisco Fran
 Donald Barr, an educator, writer and former headmaster of the Dalton School in Manhattan and the Hackley School in Tarrytown, N.Y., died on Thursday at a hospital in Langhorne, Pa. He was 82 and lived in Colebrook, Conn. The cause was heart failure, his family said. 
 Jason Raize Rothenberg, an actor and singer who was one of the original stars of the Broadway musical ''The Lion King,'' died on Feb. 3 in Yass, Australia, southwest of Sydney. He was 28. The cause was suicide, said Chris Boneau, a spokesman for the Disney Company, producer of ''The
 BARR--Donald. The Dalton School notes with sorrow the passing of its former Headmaster (1964-1974). We send our sincere condolences to his family. Ellen C. Stein, Head of School       
 BESTECKI--John D. On February 4, 2004. Retired media executive from BBDO. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Survived by his children Ursula Ozaki, Delphine Bestecki, John T. Bestecki and Claudine Bednarek. Also survived by his grandchildren Yukio Ozaki and Daniel Bednarek. Friends may call
 DeLUCIA -- John J., Esq., peacefully with his family at home on February 9, 2004. Beloved husband of Amy (nee Giove). Proud father of John, Jeffrey and Marianne. Survived by his sister Sophie Lombardo. Family to receive friends at Leo F. Kearns Funeral Home, 61-40 Woodhaven Blvd, Rego Park,
 ELIKANN--Larry, died February 4, 2004. One of the most creative geniuses in television--one of the first cameramen on the original, live TV show, Philco Playhouse, with a career that spanned 55 years, his last 40 years as a director. An Emmy, Peabody, eight Christophers, three Humanitas, fi
 GREENBAUM -- Robert. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Hts, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Robert Greenbaum. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, Pres.       
 HILL--Morton. Age 91. On February 7, 2004 in Key Biscayne, FL. after a productive, fun-loving and adventurous life including double crossing the Atlantic in his sailboat. Founder/President of Gardner Corporation, Atlantic City Knitting Company and Colebrook, Inc. Survived by his loving wife
 HOBERMAN--Henry D., 89, biochemist and physician, on January 10, 2004. Dr. Hoberman was professor emeritus of biochemistry at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. He was noted for his studies of pathways of hydrogen atoms in intermediary metabolism. He received his B.A. and PhD from Col
 KEBBON--Richard A., Jr. died February 7, 2004. He was born in Chicago, IL July 21, 1928. A graduate of The Hotchkiss School and Yale University, he worked in television production with Proctor & Gamble, and later with Warner Brothers in Los Angeles before retiring from Young & Rubicam in Ne
 KLINE--Stephen J. February 9. Husband of Arlene (nee Rubin). Father of Dr. Mitchell (Dr. Nancy) Kline of NY and Dr. Marsha (Dr. Kyle) Pruett. Brother of Charles L. (Lois) Kline and Ruth Kline. Grandfather of Ethan, Rachel, Olivia, Eli, Jefferson. Brother-inlaw of Bernard and Marcia Rubin. R
 LERER--Rabbi Samuel. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who devoted his rabbinate as a guiding force for those adopting Judaism. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 MAYER--Cyrus, 91, of Great Neck, NY, passed away peacefully February 8, 2004. An absolutely wonderful man. Caring husband, best friend and partner of Sylvia, devoted father of Michael and Carole, Chester and Kathy, and Amy and Alan. Beloved grandfather of Scott and Annie, Robert, Bobby, Kac
 NICHOLS--Ronald E. Passed away peacefully in his home on February 7, 2004. He is survived by his wife Nancy Rabstejnek Nichols and his two daughters Stephanie and Kimberly. Friends may call at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Ave, Wednesday 2-5 and 7-9PM. The funeral service 
 PLAUT--Robert J., of White Plains, formerly of Larchmont, NY, died Monday, February 9, 2004. He was 84. Son of the late Ralph and Gertrude Plaut. Loving husband of Patricia Maimin Plaut. Adoring father to Betsy Lublin. Cherished grandfather to Jennifer and Debbie. Brother of Edward Plaut an
 RADIN--Arthur. Died on February 8 at North Ridge Medical Center in Fort Lauderdale, FL. at age 89. He was past President of Victory Container Corp. Beloved husband for almost sixty years of Caroline. Devoted father of Howard, Michael and Alice Radin and loving grandfather of Cynthia, Alan a
 SCHOLZ--Robert. The Rev. Dr. Pastor of Holy Trinity Lutheran Church, Manhattan, died on February 7 at age 65 from a brain tumor diagnosed last June. Born in West St. Paul, MN, Scholz received BA & PhD degrees from the University of Minnesota. He married Dorothy Mareck in 1961. Before enteri
 STRAUS--Philip A., Sr. The Board of Trustees and the Ethical Culture Fieldston School community note with sadness the death of Philip A. Straus, Sr. who graduated from the school in 1933 and was a longtime supporter. We extend our sympathies to his entire family including Philip Straus, Jr.
 TABLER--William Benjamin. Age 89 of Upper Brookville, NY retired head of William B. Tabler Architects died Tuesday, February 3, 2004. Graduate of Harvard University, B.S. Cum Laude, 1936, M. Arch. 1939. Survived by his wife of 67 years, Phyllis Baker Tabler, his children, William B. Tabler,
 ZIRINSKY -- Samuel Ezra Schekter, died on February 7, 2004, at Mott Children's Hospital, in Ann Arbor, MI, after a six week illness. Sam died a very beautiful death, in a state of peaceful Awakeness. Treasured son of Ruth Schekter and Bill Zirinsky. Cherished brother of Juliana Zirinsky, an
 William B. Tabler Sr., an architect who gave Hilton hotels the crisp and clean but sometimes stark face of corporate America, most notably in the 46-story slablike New York Hilton near Rockefeller Center, died on Feb. 3. He was 89. He died at his home in Upper Brookville, N.Y., said
 Claude Ryan, a former leader of the Quebec Liberal Party who led the successful opposition in a referendum in 1980 on the French-speaking province's secession from Canada, died Monday in Montreal. He was 79. The party, which announced Mr. Ryan's death on its Web site, said the cause
 Helmut Werner, the executive who gave renewed luster to the Mercedes automobile but whose influence fell victim to the combination process that resulted in the trans-Atlantic DaimlerChrysler, died on Friday in Berlin. He was 67 and lived in Stuttgart, where the company is based. His
 CARPENTER -- H. Daniel. Hudson Guild marks with great sadness the passing of Dan Carpenter, age 95. Dan joined the Guild in 1931, serving as executive director from 1943 until 1973. Upon his retirement he served as a trustee for 18 years. His impact on the Guild and on Chelsea was extraordi
 CHEN--Wei gun, on Friday, February 6, 2004, age 75. Beloved Tai Chi Master (Sifu), husband of Chen Ru Qiong, father of Zhi Hong and Ying Jie, father-in-law of Gong Kok Dun and Yue Fangli and grandfather of Stephen, Barry and Siao Ming. Sifu Chen practiced martial arts since early childhood 
 CRACOLICI--Jennie. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Jennie Cracolici, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Frank J. Cracolici, Continuum
 ELIKANN--Larry, died February 4, 2004. One of the most creative geniuses in television--one of the first cameramen on the original, live TV show, Philco Playhouse, with a career that spanned 55 years, his last 40 years as a director. An Emmy, Peabody, eight Christophers, three Humanitas, fi
 FRANCAIS--Jacques Pierre. Died on February 4, 2004 in New York City at the age of 80 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. He is survived by his wife Beatrice Mathews Francais, his daughter Isabelle Francais, his granddaughter Daniella Valentine Saarma and two stepdaughters Hilary a
 HOBERMAN -- Henry, D., M.D., Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of our distinguished professor emeritus of biochemistry. A member of our founding faculty, in 1953, Dr. Hoberman, was instrumental in helping the College att
 KANTOR--Thomas. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, express their deep sadness over the death of Thomas Kantor, M.D., a distinguished member of the faculty for over 50 years. Dr. Kantor achieved international recognition for his contributions to rheuma
 KEBBON--Richard A., Jr. died February 7, 2004. He was born in Chicago, IL July 21, 1928. A graduate of The Hotchkiss School and Yale University, he worked in television production with Proctor & Gamble, and later with Warner Brothers in Los Angeles before retiring from Young & Rubicam in Ne
 KURTZ--Morton, M.D. The Medical Staff Society of New York Hospital Queens, mourns the loss of its distinguished colleague, and extends its heartfelt sympathies to his family. David H. Snyder, M.D., President Gabriel F. DeAngelis, M.D., Vice President Jack M. Mann, M.D, Secretary/Treasurer  
 LEVINE--Burt, 75, died peacefully February 7th. Loving brother, uncle, grand-uncle, cousin, friend. We will miss his kind and gentle personality and his wonderful piano playing.       
 NEUMARK--Michael. Who applied his marketing acumen to help bring institutional equity trading into the technological age, died suddenly on February 8 at his home in Pleasantville, NY. He was 60. Mr. Neumark was senior vice president and director of marketing for Investment Technology Group,
 NICHOLS--Ronald E. Passed away peacefully in his home on February 7, 2004. He is survived by his wife Nancy Rabstejnek Nichols and his two daughters Stephanie and Kimberly. Friends may call at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Ave, Wednesday 2-5 and 7-9PM. The funeral service 
 PARSA--Mohamad H., M.D., Professor of Clinical Surgery, Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons and Director of the Trauma Center, Harlem Hospital Center passed away February 9th at the age of 64. An avid teacher and writer, he dedicated the majority of his professional effo
 PELLER--Leo. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Leo Peller and extend to his family our sincere condolences. Bruce D. Frank, President Roger Eichel, Secretary       
 PLAUT--Robert J., of White Plains, formerly of Larchmont, NY, died Monday, February 9, 2004. He was 84. Son of the late Ralph and Gertrude Plaut. Loving husband of Patricia Maimin Plaut. Adoring father to Betsy Lublin. Cherished grandfather to Jennifer and Debbie. Brother of Edward Plaut an
 SEMMEL -- Herbert. The board and staff of New York Lawyers for the Public Interest mourn the passing of our beloved colleague, Herb Semmel. Under his leadership as litigation director, NYLPI brought numerous landmark civil rights lawsuits. His wisdom, wit, integrity, compassion, and skill a
 TOLLES--Theodore L. (Terry), of New Hartford, NY died suddenly on February 7th, 2004 at his home. He was born on March 4, 1938 in Chestertown, MD, the son of Winton and Patricia Doyle Tolles. A graduate of Clinton High School, Williams College 1957 and Harvard Law School 1960, Terry served 
 ZIRINSKY -- Samuel Ezra Schekter, died on February 7, 2004, at Mott Children's Hospital, in Ann Arbor, MI, after a six week illness. Sam died a very beautiful death, in a state of peaceful Awakeness. Treasured son of Ruth Schekter and Bill Zirinsky. Cherished brother of Juliana Zirinsky, an
 Jim Russo, who helped build a host of pennant-winning Baltimore Oriole teams in a scouting career that spanned more than three decades, died in Grover, Mo. He was 81. Family members found his body at his home last Sunday evening, said his daughter-in-law Lisa Russo. He had heart dis
 Julius Schwartz, a comic-book editor who rescued the superhero genre from near extinction in the mid-1950's and helped shape popular characters including Batman, the Flash and Green Lantern, died on Sunday in Mineola, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in Queens Village. The cause was pneumon
 ADAMS--Stirling Shattuck, of Vero Beach, Florida, died suddenly on February 8, 2004, aged 93. Beloved husband of Rosamond Hodges Adams, his wife of 66 years. Devoted father of Stirling S. Adams, Jr., William Woodward Adams and Rosamond Adams Chadwick. Loving grandfather of Rosamond Macy Cha
 CARPENTER -- H. Daniel. Hudson Guild marks with great sadness the passing of Dan Carpenter, age 95. Dan joined the Guild in 1931, serving as executive director from 1943 until 1973. Upon his retirement he served as a trustee for 18 years. His impact on the Guild and on Chelsea was extraordi
 COLENDA--Frank G., MD. Of NYC died unexpectedly on February 10, 2004. Dr. Colenda was a well-respected internist who practiced in Manhattan for more than 30 years. He was a senior attending physician at Lenox Hill Hospital. Funeral services are tentatively being planned for Friday and/or Sa
 EDGERTON--Prof. William B., 89, of Bloomington, IN, died Sunday. He was Professor Emeritus of Slavic languages at Indiana University and formerly taught at Columbia University. Memorial services will be at 2:00 pm February 14, at Bloomington Friends Meeting. For information, contact Day Fun
 KANTOR--Thomas G., M.D. Husband of Deirdre. Memorial service Saturday, February 14, 11 AM, Christ and Holy Trinity, Westport, Connecticut. Memorial contributions to Doctors Without Borders or Arthritis Foundation. KANTOR--Thomas, MD. The faculty and staff of New York University Scho
 KLEIN--Isadore. The firm of Herzfeld & Rubin, PC is deeply saddened to hear of the death of our longtime friend, Isadore Klein. His loss will be felt by all whose lives he touched. Herbert Rubin, Herzfeld & Rubin       
 KURTZ--Morton, MD. The Officers, Counselors and Trustees of the Medical Society of the State of New York (MSSNY) record with deep sorrow the passing of their past president, friend and esteemed colleague. ''Morty'' Kurtz practiced medicine in Queens for 50 years and enriched the lives of in
 MESSING--William L., 90, on February 9, 2004 in Los Gatos, California. Loved and survived by Norma, wife of 63 years; children Joan, Margie and Gary and their spouses; five grandchildren and their partners; and one greatgrandchild. Graduated New York City College, 1933 and Columbia Law Scho
 NICHOLS--Ronald. The Berrie Center extends our condolences to the Nichols family on the passing of Ron, beloved husand and father. Our thoughts are with his wife Nancy, cherished member of our Diabetes Advisory Committee, and daughters Stephanie and Kimberly. Robin Goland, M.D. Rudolph Leib
 ONYAN--Blaine Wellington, of Fort Lee, died on February 11, 2004, at the age of 92. Blaine, beloved husband of Edith Hufman Onyan, liked to call himself the ''an upstate Apple Knocker.'' He was born in Clinton, NY and raised in Oriskany Falls. He was especially proud of his service in the U
 SHEINBERG--Samuel. On February 10th, in Miami, FL. Survived by his wife, Ruth, daughters, Shelley and Julie (Coppy), grandchildren, Ian, Sloan, Logan, Deena and Ross and great-grandchildren, Amore and Teresa.       
 WEISS -- Harold. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Kaye and their loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Rabbi Scott Corngold Cantor Bruce L. Ruben Michael H. Laufer, President       
 Ryszard Kuklinski, a former Polish Army officer who secretly served as one of the C.I.A.'s most important spies behind the Iron Curtain during the cold war, died Tuesday in his adopted American homeland, United States government officials said Wednesday. He was 73. His death came at
 Edward Jablonski, who wrote notable biographies of George Gershwin, Harold Arlen, Alan Jay Lerner and, most recently, Irving Berlin, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was heart failure, his family said. M
 BORSDORFF--William Berle. Of Juno Beach, Florida died on February 10, 2004 at the age of 88. He was a graduate and benefactor of the Kent School, Kent, CT., Dartmouth College and the Amos Tuck School. He was awarded the U.S. Navy Silver Star and French Croix de Guerre with Bronze Star for P
 CARPENTER--H. Daniel. NADAP marks with great sadness the passing of Dan Carpenter, age 95. Dan joined NADAP in 1973 serving as president and CEO from 1973 to 1984. He then served as Board member from 1984 to 1995. In these roles he supported the agency through some of its most challenging a
 CHEN--Wei gun, on Friday, February 6, 2004, age 75. Beloved Tai Chi Master (Sifu), husband of Chen Ru Qiong, father of Zhi Hong and Ying Jie, father-in-law of Gong Kok Dun and Yue Fangli and grandfather of Stephen, Barry and Siao Ming. Sifu Chen practiced martial arts since early childhood 
 COLENDA--Frank G., MD. Of NYC died unexpectedly on February 10, 2004. Dr. Colenda was a well-respected internist who practiced in Manhattan for more than 30 years. He was a senior attending physician at Lenox Hill Hospital. Funeral services are tentatively being planned for Friday and/or Sa
 FELDSHER--George. On February 10, 2004 at age 88. Survived by loving sisters Anne Roemer (Mark) and Gertrude Orion (Henry), many nieces and nephews, and many devoted friends from his days in show business.With deep sorrow and great regret he took a cab. Funeral services on Friday, February 
 GUTERMAN--Abraham S. 91, died February 11. Beloved husband of the late Irene Guterman, devoted father of the late Florrie Nadelman. Survived by sister Hazel Schwab, nieces Phyllis Barnett, Karen Sommer, Amy Schwab and Lori Schwab; nephews Ted Sommer and Larry Guterman; also many grand niece
 KELLEN--Stephen M. died at Lenox Hill Hospital on February 11, 2004 in New York City. He is survived by his wife Anna-Maria Kellen, his daughter Marina French, his son Michael M. Kellen, his granddaughters Annabelle Garrett and Caroline Kellen, his grandsons Andrew Gundlach and Christopher 
 NORMAN--Andrew E., on February 7, 2004, age 73. Editor, philanthropist, democrat. Beloved father of Abigail, Sarah, Margaret and Rebecca. Sister of Nancy Norman Lassalle. Grandfather of Erika Peartree and Emmet Holton. Fiancee of Barbara Mahony Kent. Will be sorely missed by family, colleag
 NOVINA--Philip. We mourn the passing on February 3, of a beloved father, husband, and physician. Philip was a successful OB/GYN for 21 years, but his greatest legacy is his children, Carl and Julia. He is also survived by first wife, Ulla, and second wife, Dale. Memorial: February 15, 2PM, 
 Richard Edward Diamond, publisher of The Staten Island Advance, part of the Newhouse publishing empire, died yesterday at his home in the Todt Hill section of Staten Island. A lifelong resident of Staten Island, he was 71. The cause was prostate cancer, a family spokesman said.     
 COLENDA--Frank G., MD. Of NYC died unexpectedly on February 10, 2004. Dr. Colenda was a well-respected internist who practiced in Manhattan for more than 30 years. He was a senior attending physician at Lenox Hill Hospital. Funeral services are tentatively being planned for Friday and/or Sa
 DIAMOND--Richard E., of Staten Island, NY, publisher of the ''Staten Island Advance,'' on February 12, 2004. Husband of Alice B. (nee Blach). Father of Caroline D. Harrison, Alison D. Levasseur and Richard E. Diamond, Jr. Father-in-law of Timothy C. Harrison, Laurent C. Levasseur and France
 FLOETER -- Kent, 66, on Thursday, February 12, 2004. Born Saginaw, Michigan, studied at Boston University School of Fine Arts 1961, Yale University School of Arts and Architecture 1964, Fulbright Scholar. An artist and educator, Kent was a respected and collected artist for the past thirty 
 GUTERMAN -- Abraham S. The Board of Trustees of the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and the entire Cardozo community is deeply saddened by the death of one of its founding members. Abraham Guterman served on the Cardozo Board from the founding of the Law School in 1976 through 2000, when 
 KELLEN--Stephen M. The Board of Trustees, Scientific Advisory Council and Staff of the Cancer Research Institute wish to express our grief over the passing of one of the Institute's most beloved friends and generous benefactors. Mr. Kellen, along with his wife Anna - Maria, disti guished hi
 LOVE--Dr. Sidney Irwin, 82. Psychoanalyst, psychologist, educator and renowned family therapist. Dr. Love, author of numerous papers on psychoanalysis and family treatment, died on February 11 in New York City. He was born February 12, 1922, in the Bronx. He received a Purple Heart serving 
 MORGENSTEIN--Chiel. 98, on February 12, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife of 74 years, Charlotte. Children Henry (Elinor) Morgenstein; Ruth (Jacob) Kaufman; Jacob (Tovah) Morgenstein. Grandchildren Morris Kaufman; Aron (Lisa Wolf) Kaufman; Barbara (Eric) Smolen; Henry Kaufman; Ruth (
 NOVINA--Philip. We mourn the passing on February 3, of a beloved father, husband, and physician. Philip was a successful OB/GYN for 21 years, but his greatest legacy is his children, Carl and Julia. He is also survived by first wife, Ulla, and second wife, Dale. Memorial: February 15, 2PM, 
 REGAN--James V. Of Manhasset, NY on February 13, 2004, age 86. Beloved husband of Lillian (Dunn). Father of Priscilla (Chris Deering, Fairfax, VA), James (Deborah Bowler, Seattle, WA) and Francis (Sea Cliff). Grandfather of Michael Deering, Josie Regan, Mary Deering and Odessa Bowler. Gradu
 SILVERSTEIN--Don, 71, of New York City, formerly of Detroit, MI. Died January 30th, 2004. Mr. Silverstein is survived by his wife Sakiko Silverstein, his sister Roberta Cohen, and his nephews Dale and Warren Cohen. Mr. Silverstein was a contemporary painter and illustrator of children's boo
 SPECTOR--Julius Jack (JJ). Passed away, aged 86, Los Angeles, February 12. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Loving father of Susan Rosen (Los Angeles) and Eric Spector (Kensington, CA), devoted grandfather of Michele, Liana, Marisa, Elliot & Jackson; doting greatgrandfather of Sara, Ryan
 Philip Albert Straus, a retired New York investment banker, financier and patron of the arts and education, died on Feb. 4 in Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 88 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. The cause was complications after surgery, his family said. Mr. Straus spe
 Dr. Robert A. Bruce, who advanced the ability to diagnose heart disease by devising the treadmill stress test, now almost universally used, died on Thursday at his home in Seattle. He was 87. The cause was leukemia and spinal stenosis, said Carole Brennan, a daughter of his third wi
 Stephen M. Kellen, an investment banker who supported the arts and education in his adopted city of New York and helped build cultural bridges to his native Berlin, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived on the Upper East Side. He died in his sleep at Lenox Hill Hospita
 COLESBERRY -- Robert. NYU's Tisch School of the Arts notes with deep sorrow the passing of our friend and alumnus Robert Colesberry. After graduating from the School's film program in 1973, he went on to distinguish himself as a consummate storyteller and an award-winning producer, earning 
 DANIELIAN--Pamela F. (nee Hausen). December 6, 1949-February 13, 2004. Devoted wife of 33 years to Danny. Loving mother of Brian, his wife Patricia, and to Jason. Beloved sister to Denise. Survived by nieces, nephews, brothers and sisters-in-law and friends. In the arms of angels may you fi
 DOMMERICH--Louis Alexander. 75, of Palm Beach, FL, died on February 13, 2004, in Greenwich, CT. He was born in New York City on January 2, 1929. The son of the late Louis F. Dommerich and Margaret Whitehead Dommerich, longtime residents of Greenwich. His paternal great-grandfather founded a
 FITZGIBBON--John P., died peacefully on February 6, 2004 in Tucson, Arizona at age 84. He is survived by his wife, Sophie Breckenridge FitzGibbon; his sister, Pat Bueler; his children, Timmie Saltzman, Mary Walsh, and John Jr., James, Bonnie, Susan, and Brian FitzGibbon; 11 grandchildren an
 FLOETER -- Kent, 66, on Thursday, February 12, 2004. Born Saginaw, Michigan, studied at Boston University School of Fine Arts 1961, Yale University School of Arts and Architecture 1964, Fulbright Scholar. An artist and educator, Kent was a respected and collected artist for the past thirty 
 HOTCHKISS--John F. Of Fort Myers, FL, and Rochester, NY, died on February 8, 2004, at the age of 97. A longtime resident of Sanibel Island, FL, he was born in Geneseo, NY on March 26, 1906 to John William and Katherine Totten Hotchkiss. Devoted husband to the late Catherine Fidelis McKenna 
 KELLEN--Stephen M. died at Lenox Hill Hospital on February 11, 2004 in New York City. He is survived by his wife Anna-Maria Kellen, his daughter Marina French, his son Michael M. Kellen, his granddaughters Annabelle Garrett and Caroline Kellen, his grandsons Andrew Gundlach and Christopher 
 KULLMAN--Lawrence. On February 14, 2004. Originally from Newark, NJ, currently from Manhattan. Survived by his wife Ruth Heber, his sons Seth and Michael, stepchildren Ron, Sheldon and Lorraine, as well as grandchildren Alex, Jason, Jenna, Alex and Audrey. His love of life, family, friends 
 LEDDY--John J. On Thursday, February 12, 2004, in West Palm Beach, FL. He is survived by his lovely wife of 55 years Mae (nee Bohan), daughter Barbara Hough and his sons Gerard, John, and Brendan, mourned by his siblings and their spouses, nieces, nephews and grandchildren. Family and frien
 LESE--Walter A. Age 104 on January 27, 2004. Survived by children Barbara Gunther of Bayport, NY, Elliot Lese of Carmel, IN, and Henri Lese of San Rafael, CA, five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Mr. Lese, a retired CPA was Senior Managing Partner of Klein, Hinds and Finke, when 
 LOPEZ--Adrian B. Age 97. Born January 28, 1906. Died January 27, 2004. Graduated University of Notre Dame, 1928. Magazine publisher for 60 years. He was well respected and loved by all. A kind gentleman and a lamb of God. Survived by his wife Marcie Shrewsbury Lopez and sons, Barry and Denn
 LOVE--Dr. Sidney Irwin, 82. Psychoanalyst, psychologist, educator and renowned family therapist. Dr. Love, author of numerous papers on psychoanalysis and family treatment, died on February 11 in New York City. He was born February 12, 1922, in the Bronx. He received a Purple Heart serving 
 MATHERLY -- John. The Trustees and Staff of The Hudson River Museum record with great sorrow the passing of John Matherly, Design Director at the Museum since 1981. Through his wide ranging skills he influenced every aspect of the Museum's public face. He will be sorely missed. Our thoughts
 MESSING--William L., 90, on February 9, 2004 in Los Gatos, California. Loved and survived by Norma, wife of 63 years; children Joan, Margie and Gary and their spouses; five grandchildren and their partners; and one greatgrandchild. Graduated New York City College, 1933 and Columbia Law Scho
 NIEWEG--Louis. 92. It is with great sorrow we announce the passing away February 13, in Miami, FL. Formerly of New York, he dedicated his life to philanthropic endeavors to organizations in Miami, New York and Israel. Brother of Robert A. Nieweg and his wife Vera, uncle to Joyce Lesley Niew
 NOVINA--Philip. We mourn the passing on February 3, of a beloved father, husband, and physician. Philip was a successful OB/GYN for 21 years, but his greatest legacy is his children, Carl and Julia. He is also survived by first wife, Ulla, and second wife, Dale. Memorial: February 15, 2PM, 
 REGAN--James V. Of Manhasset, NY on February 13, 2004, age 86. Beloved husband of Lillian (Dunn). Father of Priscilla (Chris Deering, Fairfax, VA), James (Deborah Bowler, Seattle, WA) and Francis (Sea Cliff). Grandfather of Michael Deering, Josie Regan, Mary Deering and Odessa Bowler. Gradu
 SILVERSTEIN--Don, 71, of New York City, formerly of Detroit, MI. Died January 30th, 2004. Mr. Silverstein is survived by his wife Sakiko Silverstein, his sister Roberta Cohen, and his nephews Dale and Warren Cohen. Mr. Silverstein was a contemporary painter and illustrator of children's boo
 STRAUS--Philip A. With deep regret, the Board of Directors and Staff of the Center for Defense Information, note the passing of Philip A. Straus, a mentor and pillar of support for CDI since 1974, when he joined its Board of Advisors. His wisdom and brilliant analysis aided CDI's quest for 
 TOLLES--Theodore L. (Terry), of New Hartford, NY died suddenly on February 7th, 2004 at his home. He was born on March 4, 1935 in Chestertown, MD, the son of Winton and Patricia Doyle Tolles. A graduate of Clinton High School, Williams College 1957 and Harvard Law School 1960, Terry served 
 ZELANO--Wilma Remeny. Beloved daughter of Wilma and the late Sebastian. Dearest sister of John and his wife Teri. Aunt of Jonathan and Marisa. Reposing at Ralph Giordano Funeral Home, 1727 Crosby Avenue, Bronx, Sunday and Monday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Mass Tuesday, 10:45 AM, St. Theresa Church.  
 Adrian Lopez, who published magazines on a broad range of subjects, including car racing and quilting, for 60 years, died on Jan. 27 at a hospital in Brick, N.J. He was 97 and lived in Bay Head, N.J. The cause was complications from dialysis treatments, his son Barry said. M
 Brig. Gen. Amato Semenza, a retired Roman Catholic educator and former commander of the New York Guard, died on Feb. 1 at his home in Clifton Park, N.Y. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. General Semenza was named to head the state guard, the all-volun
 Dr. Celso-Ramn Garca, whose research in the 1950's advanced the development of the birth control pill, died on Feb. 1 in Boston, where he was visiting a relative. He was 82 and lived in Merion Station, Pa., outside Philadelphia. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said his dau
 Cem Karaca, one of the founders of Turkish rock music, died on Feb. 8 in Istanbul. He was 58. The cause was heart failure, the Bakirkoy Acibadem Hospital announced. Mr. Karaca's concerts and 24 albums won fans in Turkey and Western Europe. With his signature felt hat, big br
 CATANEO--Ralph John. Of Brooklyn, NY, passed away suddenly on February 14, 2004, age 65. Beloved husband of Maria, father of Ralph, Kristine and daughter-in-law Stacy, grandfather of Jack Robert and brother of Ferdinand, Robert and Ronald. At this time of sadness and reflection, we remember
 FEINBERG--Arthur J. Of Groton, CT, on February 14, 2004. Beloved and devoted husband of Eleanor Getzler Feinberg. Loving father of Ira and his wife Candy, Linda, Roberta and Glen. Grandfather of Adam, Daniel, D.J., Joanna, Seth and Zachary. Greatgrandfather of Shana. Services will be Tuesda
 FELDMAN -- Dr. Bernard Lionel. On February 14, 2004, in Fairfield, CT. Predeceased by his wife, Fay K. Feldman, survived by his son, Alan H. Feldman, daughters, Heda Dadiomoff and Myra Hawkins, sisters, Leah Rabinowitz, Ceceil Siegel, Roz Silverman, Bea Freeman, and by grandchildren, Adam S
 FELDMAN--Morris K., DDS. Age 92 on February 14, 2004. Devoted husband of Della. Beloved father of Jay, Nancy and Clare. Loving grandfather of Nina, Karen, Scott, Alyssa and Mark. Doting greatgrandfather of David Max. The last of his generation.       
 HEYMANN--Henry. Formerly of Henry Haymann Associates, a designer and consultant to the men's clothing industry for over 40 years, passed away on February 13. A WWII veteran, recipient of the Silver Star and Purple Heart. He was active in the German American Soccer League, the Boy Scouts and
 KAMM--Larry. Television Director/Producer for the ABC Television Network for 36 years and a devoted husband and father, died February 13, 2004. He was a vital member of ABC Sports and one of the most versatile directors in television. From the Olympics to the Super Bowl he worked virtually 
 KELLEN--Stephen M. died at Lenox Hill Hospital on February 11, 2004 in New York City. He is survived by his wife Anna-Maria Kellen, his daughter Marina French, his son Michael M. Kellen, his granddaughters Annabelle Garrett and Caroline Kellen, his grandsons Andrew Gundlach and Christopher 
 LEDDY--John J. On Thursday, February 12, 2004, in West Palm Beach, FL. He is survived by his lovely wife of 55 years Mae (nee Bohan), daughter Barbara Hough and his sons Gerard, John, and Brendan, mourned by his siblings and their spouses, nieces, nephews and grandchildren. Family and frien
 LEVY--Warren. Devoted husband of Miriam. Adoring and proud father of Spencer and Peter. Dear brother of Lilian Cropsey and loving uncle. Services Tuesday, 11 am, from Temple Sinai of Long Island, 131 Washington Avenue, Lawrence, NY. LEVY--Warren. We mourn the passing of our member a
 MARCUS--Bert. An incredible artist, was Ruth's adored husband, Lon, Beth and Jody's proud loving dad, Jed, Kyle, Casey and Lynn's doting granpa, Diana's devoted brother and a caring friend to all who knew him.       
 MORTNER--Sol E. Died February 14, 2004, at age 84. Survived by his daughters Denise Kranz and Roseanne Baker, grandsons Allen Weiss and David Kranz, greatgrandsons Nicholas and Alex Weiss. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, West 76th and Amsterdam, Monday, February 16, at 9:45 am. Buria
 NAIMOLI--John C. 87, of Amityville, NY, on February 2, 2004. Born May 4, 1917, in New York City to Theodore Naimoli and Margaret Cuomo. He was a graduate of Xavier High School in New York City and Manhattan College. After serving in the U.S. Army from 1942 to 1944, he was an art director fo
 Lawrence S. Ritter, whose pioneering oral history ''The Glory of Their Times'' recounted the baseball world of the early 20th century, died Sunday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 81. He had a series of strokes in recent years, said Marty Appel, a friend and former public relat
 D'ARCANGELO--A. Rick, a man who was respected and loved by everyone who knew him, died on Valentine's Day, February 14th, 2004. He was 85. In 1942, Rick graduated cum laude from New York University. After graduation, he distinguished himself as a 2nd Lieutenant, for the 8th Air Force, at he
 FEINMAN--Abraham (Obbie) Passed away on Feb. 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Sadie, father of Rita (Mark Ash) and Arthur. Grandfather of Rudy and Jesse. We miss him.       
 FELDMAN--Morris K., DDS. Age 92 on February 14, 2004. Devoted husband of Della. Beloved father of Jay, Nancy and Clare. Loving grandfather of Nina, Karen, Scott, Alyssa and Mark. Doting greatgrandfather of David Max. The last of his generation.       
 HERRMANN--Joseph C., of Tinton Falls, NJ, formerly of Monmouth Beach and Little Silver, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Caroline (nee Hauck). Devoted father of Joseph C. Jr., Elizabeth H. Miklus, and Patricia H. Deans. Loving brother of Arthur L. Herrmann. Cherished grandfather of Kristine 
 KELLEN--Stephen M. The American Academy in Rome mourns the loss of Stephen M. Kellen, philanthropist and international bridge builder. Together with Anna-Maria, he loved and supported many cultural institutions, including the American Academy in Rome, and brought into being our sister entit
 LIBMAN--H. Hillard. On February 15, 2004 in Sarasota, FL at age 73. Owner/Director of Camp Hillard, he is survived by his wife of 43 years, Elaine, children Jim, Jon and Kathleen, granddaughters Dylan and Taylor and sisters Jill Libman and Kit Howard. Service Wednesday, February 18, 10 AM a
 SMITH--Melvin S. On February 15, 2004. Loved by his wife Marcia, children David and Stephanie, Michael and Gita, Robert and Wendy, and grandchildren Jason, Daniel, Amy, Alex, Gabrielle, Rachel, Sarah and Ben. Services Wednesday, February 18th, at 1 PM at The Village Temple, 33 East 12th Str
 SUMMER--Harold W., 91. Devoted husband of the late Judy. Beloved father of Ronald and Ellen, Sharon and George, and Esther and Melvin. Dear brother of Goldie. Loving ''Pappy'' to Douglas and Alison, Haley and Rob, Joanna and Faigy. Friend to all who knew him. He lived life to the fullest. H
 YOUNG--Dr. Stanley R. We mourn the loss of our caring and devoted brother and uncle. We are thankful to have shared many happy years together. He will always be loved and never forgotten. Mildred and Harold and entire Spar family       
 Paul Ilyinsky, who as mayor of Palm Beach, Fla., in the 1990's laid claim to being the only member of the Romanov family to hold an elected office, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Palm Beach. He was 76. The cause has not been determined, his son Michael said, but he had multiple heal
 Jervis Langdon Jr., a top railroad executive during an era in which the industry was reshaped, died on Monday at his home in Elmira, N.Y. He was 99. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Irene. During a four-decade career, Mr. Langdon was president of severa
 Jos Lpez Portillo, who as president of Mexico from 1976 to 1982 brought his nation to the brink of economic collapse, died yesterday. He was 83 years old. Medical officials said Mr. Lpez Portillo died at Angeles del Pedregal Hospital in Mexico City, where he was being treated 
 COVICH--Sidney. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sidney Covich. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Marion, and their family. Dr. Elliott Solomon, Pres.       
 D'ARCANGELO--A. Rick, a man who was respected and loved by everyone who knew him, died on Valentine's Day, February 14th, 2004. He was 85. In 1942, Rick graduated cum laude from New York University. After graduation, he distinguished himself as a 2nd Lieutenant, for the 8th Air Force, at he
 DIAMOND -- Norman. Be loved husband of Linda Silver Diamond. Devoted father of Jacob and Barbara and stepfather of Michael and Gabrielle. Also survived by 13 grandchildren. Loving brother of Larry, Estelle and Lenore. Services Thursday 1PM at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck.    
 HAGGERTY--Mary C. On February 16, 2004. Of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved daughter of the late James and Mary Ann Haggerty. Devoted sister of Bert & his wife Eileen, Noreen, Jack and the late Msgr. James J. Haggerty. Also survived by one niece, five nephews and eleven grand-nieces and nephews. R
 KELLEN--Stephen M. The Alliance for the Arts mourns the passing of our great friend and benefactor, Stephen M. Kellen. His generosity was equalled by his modesty and by the love he shared with his wife Anna-Maria and his family. He was loyal to what he called his ''two hometowns'', Berlin, 
 KING--Donald A. At his home in Avon, CT on February 16, 2004. Funeral services will be Thursday at 10:00 A.M. in St. Thomas the Apostle Church, West Hartford, CT. Calling hours are Wednesday from 47 P.M. at the Molloy Funeral Home, 906 Farmington Ave., West Hartford, Connecticut       
 ROSENBERG--Charles, M.D. 84, died on Tuesday. Loved by his wife, Florence, and adored by his children, Ken and Ina. He lived his life with a joy and generosity that affected everyone around him. He will be deeply missed. Funeral to be held at Temple Beth El, Stamford, CT on Thursday, Februa
 SHAPIRO--Arthur H. Beloved husband of Phyllis, devoted father of Caryl (Leonard) and Lisa. Proud grandfather of Benjamin and Eve. Also survived by his brother Daniel S. Martin (Lisa), brothers-in-law Edward S. Solovei (Liisa) and Gerald A. Solovei. A devoted obstetrician/gynecologist for ov
 WILSON--John Oliver of Hamden, Connecticut, peacefully passed away on February 17th. Born on October 20, 1916 to Charles H. Wilson and Edith Wyman Wilson in Davenport, Iowa, he moved to New York City in Childhood and graduated from NYC's St. Bernard's School in 1930, from Phillips Exeter Ac
 YOUNG--Stanley R., Dr. Of Southbury, Connecticut, formerly of Mamaroneck, New York, died on February 15, 2004 after a short illness. He was 80 years of age. Dr. Young was in private practice as an optometrist in Mamaroneck, N.Y. for 40 years before his retirement in 1990. He was past Presid
 Jos Lpez Portillo, who as president of Mexico from 1976 to 1982 brought his nation to the brink of economic collapse, died on Tuesday. He was 83. Medical officials said Mr. Lpez Portillo died at ngeles del Pedregal Hospital in Mexico City, where he was being treated for pneu
 BENEDEK--Armand. On February 9, 2004, Armand Benedek of Pound Ridge, N.Y., was declared missing and presumed dead after a tragic scuba diving accident while vacationing on Grand Cayman Island, BWI. Born on February 15, 1931, in the Bronx, N.Y., Armand graduated from the high school of Arts 
 BESSUNGER -- Hans -Joachim (John). The Board of Directors and employees of Haram - Christensen Corpora tion, Carlstadt, N.J., acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of its Chairman. Mr. Bessunger was a brilliant man with expert knowledge in the specialty food business. Mr. Bessunger leave
 D'ARCANGELO--Mark J., 78, died on February 12, 2004. He was born in Buffalo, NY, on September 3, 1925 and served in the Pacific in the liberation of the Philippine Islands during WWII. Mark retired from General Electric in 1988 as a Vice President. He graduated from the Indiana Institute of
 GREGG--David III, 71, senior advisor to and a founder of the Pierce Financial Corporation, a firm handling venture financing for broadcasting companies and other businesses, died February 15 of a cardiac arrest in Richmond, VA, while racing in a regional Masters swim competition. Mr. Gregg 
 HOVIS -- Eugene Leonard (Gene). Died on Tuesday, February 17 peacefully in his sleep in his home after a long illness. Cooking was Gene Hovis' destiny. Born in Salisbury, NC, Gene came from a family of fabulous cooks. Hovis left Salisbury for New York in 1952. As an actor and model he alway
 HUEBNER--Carl Herman of Chatham, NJ on February 16, 2004. He was instumental in the development of Stuyvesant Town, Peter Cooper Village and Riverton, in NYC during the 1940's. Mr. Huebner had been a Director of the Empire Savings Bank of NY, a Director of the Public Development Corporation
 KURTZ--Morton M., M.D. The membership of the Medical Society of the County of Queens expresses their profound sadness on the loss of their beloved colleague and friend, Morton M. Kurtz, M.D. A distinguished and dedicated physician, he served the society well for over 50 years as its preside
 LINS--John P., 89, formerly of New York City, died February 14 in West Chester, PA. He is survived by his wife Marion S. Lins, his children Louise Chinn Ducas, Andrew Lins, and Susan Jackson and four grandchildren. Memorial donations may be made to the Nature Conservency, phone 800-628-6860
 McMAHON--Thomas Vaughan, of Westhampton Beach, NY, died on February 17, 2004, surrounded by his family. Tom is survived by Barbara, his devoted wife of 50 years, as well as four children and their spouses, Don and Kate Galletly of Houston, TX, Molly and Frank Maguire of Darien, CT, Tom and 
 MULLER--Andre. 93, former Director of Latin American affairs for Nestle, devoted husband of the late Helen Maguire Muller and brother of Micheline Lucas, Christiane Tyson, and Elyette Taylor passed away on February 18, 2004 in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was the dedicated and kind-hearted fat
 ROSENBERG--Charles, M.D. 84, died on Tuesday. Loved by his wife, Florence, and adored by his children, Ken and Ina. He lived his life with a joy and generosity that affected everyone around him. He will be deeply missed. Funeral to be held at Temple Beth El, Stamford, CT on Thursday, Februa
 SAMUELS -- Reuben. Died peacefully at home on February 17, 2004. A beloved husband and loving father, he is survived by his wife, Diane, son Adam, daughter Julie, son-in-law Barry and granddaughters Alyssa and Monica. The funeral service will be held on Friday, February 20 at 11:30AM at Lou
 SCHWEITZER--Paul, 96, beloved and wise New York City teacher and Fordham professor, died peacefully Wednesday at his home in Pelham, N.Y. His wife Eloise, seven children and 13 grandchildren rejoice in his superbly-lived life, and give thanks for his wisdom, love and generosity of spirit. V
 SHAPIRO--Arthur H. Beloved husband of Phyllis, devoted father of Caryl (Leonard) and Lisa. Proud grandfather of Benjamin and Eve. Also survived by his brother Daniel S. Martin (Lisa), brothers-in-law Edward S. Solovei (Liisa) and Gerald A. Solovei. A dedicated obstetrician/gynecologist for 
 SHINE--Warren S., of Putnam Valley, NY, died peacefully on February 18, 2004. Survived by his daughter, Elizabeth Shine McDevitt; grandson, Liam Warren McDevitt; companion, Connie Gruber; sister, Roberta Kunin, of Madison, WI, and nieces and nephews. Services private. In lieu of flowers, do
 TWINING--Edmund Stairs, Jr. On February 16, 2004, of Marshall, VA.; NYC native; member of St. Paul's School and Harvard Halcyon crews; World War II Army Captain who flew 30 missions over Germany; retired in 1974 as Director of Marketing for Air Reduction Co., Murray Hill, NJ; member of The 
 Archbishop Denis Hurley, who retired as leader of the archdiocese of Durban, South Africa, and was an implacable foe of the country's apartheid policies, died last Friday, Roman Catholic Church officials said. He was 88. The archdiocese said he appeared to have had a stroke while be
 Charlie Fox, who was the 1971 manager of the year with the San Francisco Giants and spent a half-century in baseball as an executive, manager, coach and scout, died Monday at Stanford Hospital in Stanford, Calif. He was 82. The cause was complications from pneumonia, the Giants said
 Frank del Olmo, who as an editor, columnist and reporter for The Los Angeles Times became nationally known for his sharp insights into the concerns of Hispanic-Americans, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 55. Mr. del Olmo collapsed in his office, apparently after a heart attack,
 Gene Hovis, a Southern-born chef who used his grandmother's recipes to become a caterer, then a friend and food adviser to New York society figures, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was cardiac arrest, said Hans-Joachim Teetz, his
 Jean Rouch, a French explorer, ethnologist and film director who played a significant role in forging the cinma-vrit style, died on Wednesday night in a car crash in the west central African nation of Niger, the French Embassy there said. He was 86. Mr. Rouch (pronounced roosh
 BENEDEK--Armand. On February 9, 2004, Armand Benedek of Pound Ridge, N.Y., was declared missing and presumed dead after a tragic scuba diving accident while vacationing on Grand Cayman Island, BWI. Born on February 15, 1931, in the Bronx, N.Y., Armand graduated from the high school of Arts 
 DOBKIN--Machbi, on February 19, after a long illness. Devoted husband to Marjorie Housepian Dobkin, father to Stephen Johnson and Daniel and Jonathan Dobkin. Beloved brother of Chane Doberne and Eva Dobkin Forem, loving grandfather of Avi, Mara, Zoe and Miranda. Loving uncle, and a friend t
 EISS--Abraham. The Mohegan Park Jewish Center joins the family of former President, Abraham Eiss, in mourning his passing. He will be deeply missed by the Community he led for so many years.       
 GAITHER--Gant. The Board of Trustees of the Princess Grace Foundation - USA mourns with great sorrow the passing of founding Trustee and beloved friend, Gant Gaither. His artistic approach to life and work was an inspiration to all who knew him. Our condolences go out to the family and frie
 GREGG--David III, 71, senior advisor to and a founder of the Pierce Financial Corporation, a firm handling venture financing for broadcasting companies and other businesses, died February 15 of a cardiac arrest in Richmond, VA, while racing in a regional Masters swim competition. Mr. Gregg 
 KONSKER--Morton. Of Boca Raton, FL passed away at the age of 73, after a long 16.5 month battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his adored wife of 44 years, Sandi, she was the epicenter of his every day thoughts and actions. He was a devoted father of his three sons, Mitchell, Ste
 LINS--John P., 89, formerly of New York City, died February 14 in West Chester, PA. He is survived by his wife Marion S. Lins, his children Louise Chinn Ducas, Andrew Lins, and Susan Jackson and four grandchildren. Memorial donations may be made to the Nature Conservency, phone 800-628-6860
 McGRADY--Patrick. American Society of Journalist & Authors mourns the loss of its past president and sends condolences to his life partner Holly Redell & family.       
 NORMAN--Andrew E. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of the American Civil Liberties Union are deeply saddened by the passing of a steadfast and devoted friend of civil rights and civil liberties. Mr. Norman was a magnanimous supporter of the ACLU, and his insightful leadership wil
 SAMUELS -- Reuben. Died peacefully at home on February 17, 2004. A beloved husband and loving father, he is survived by his wife, Diane, son Adam, daughter Julie, son-in-law Barry and granddaughters Alyssa and Monica. The funeral service will be held on Friday, February 20 at 11:30AM at Lou
 SCHEINBACH--Seymour C., DDS, on February 18, of Royal Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of the late Roslyn. Cherished father of Myrna, Esta Joy, Jayne and Deborah. Adored grandfather of Jennifer, Rachel and Jessica. Blessed great-grandfather of Zachary and Jacob. Dear brother of the late Milt
 SCHWEITZER--Paul, 96, beloved and wise New York City teacher and Fordham professor, died peacefully Wednesday at his home in Pelham, N.Y. His wife Eloise, seven children and 13 grandchildren rejoice in his superbly-lived life, and give thanks for his wisdom, love and generosity of spirit. V
 SHATIN--Harry. The Mt. Sinai Medical Center mourns the passing of Harry Shatin, M.D. Dr. Shatin was the first full time Chairman of the Dept of Dermatology at Mt. Sinai. He was a key figure in shaping the residency training programs in dermatology at Mt. Sinai and affiliated institutions. A
 SHINE--Warren S. The Board and staff of the Stanley M. Isaacs Neighborhood Center extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Warren Shine. As a dedicated member of the Board and past President of the Isaacs Center, Warren's commitment enriched us all. He will be missed. Doris C. Hala
 WURTELE--Morton Gaither, died February 14, 2004. Born in Harrodsburg, Kentucky, in 1919. He was at home in Chicago, Cambridge, Los Angeles, Jerusalem and, finally, Berkeley. A Professor of Atmospheric Sciences at UCLA until his retirement, he had wide-ranging interests and an unusual combin
 KATCHER--Arthur. Died February 20, 2003, one year ago, at the age of 96. Devoted husband for 65 years to his wife Evelyn, and caring father to his children, grandchildren, and great - grandchildren. Manufacturer of paper boxes for 80 years, he was president of Paragon Paper Box Corp. On thi
 Clark Byers, who for three decades painted ''See Rock City'' on more than 900 barns from Michigan to Florida, died Thursday. He was 89 and lived in Trenton, Ga. Mr. Byers was hospitalized last week after a heart attack and had been ill for the last three years, said his daughter Nan
 Gerald Walker, an author and editor who wrote the novel ''Cruising,'' died on Thursday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his wife, Joanna Simon. Mr. Walker was an articles editor for The New York Times Ma
 Dr. Jordi Casals-Ariet, the epidemiologist who was nearly killed in 1969 by Lassa fever while his team at Yale was discovering the virus that causes it, died in Manhattan on Feb. 10, his wife, Ellen, said yesterday. He was 92. Lassa fever is one of the hemorrhagic fever viruses, and
 BARR--Daniel. Son of Yael and David Barr, brother of Michael, passed away on February 19, 2004 after a courageous battle with cancer. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday, February 22, 4-7 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to a
 BRAVERMAN--Murray. On February 20, 2004. Beloved husband of Evelyn (nee Wertheimer). He will be missed by his family and friends. Service Sunday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 DOBKIN--Machbi, on February 19, after a long illness. Devoted husband to Marjorie Housepian Dobkin, father to Stephen Johnson and Daniel and Jonathan Dobkin. Beloved brother of Chane Doberne and Eva Dobkin Forem, loving grandfather of Avi, Mara, Zoe and Miranda. Loving uncle, and a friend t
 ECKER--Joseph, M.D. Beloved and devoted husband of Eva. Devoted brother-inlaw of Gerson and Judith Leiber. Dr. Ecker was a kind, compassionate physician. A man of great intellect and courage. He always had a warm and friendly smile and enriched the lives of all of us who were fortunate to k
 GELLER--Murray. 79, of Cliffside Park, NJ (formerly of Brooklyn, NY), on February 18, 2004. Founder and President of Great Eastern Pet Supply Inc. from 1956 to 2002. Survived by Adele, his wife of 54 years and business partner for 46 years; daughters Lois Gross of Columbia Falls, MT and Dor
 HERZIG--Philip R. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KONSKER--Morton. Of Boca Raton, FL passed away at the age of 73, after a long 16.5 month battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his adored wife of 44 years, Sandi, she was the epicenter of his every day thoughts and actions. He was a devoted father of his three sons, Mitchell, Ste
 McALEER--Daniel. Retired New York City Assessor. Passed away peacefully on February 8, 2004 at the age of 75. He is survived by his loving spouse Edna, sister Ann and brother Simeon. He was interred February 11, 2004.       
 MORGENSTERN--Dr. Sydney H. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Sydney H. Morgenstern. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Barbara and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph L
 SCHEINBACH--Seymour C., DDS, on February 18, of Royal Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of the late Roslyn. Cherished father of Myrna, Esta Joy, Jayne and Deborah. Adored grandfather of Jennifer, Rachel and Jessica. Blessed great-grandfather of Zachary and Jacob. Dear brother of the late Milt
 SILAGI--Robert. In San Diego, on Thursday, February 12 at age 88. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 61 years, Shulamith. Distinguished labor lawyer and litigator. Adored father of Daniel and Laura, grandfather, brother and uncle. A friend to working men and women.       
 Humphry Osmond, the psychiatrist who coined the word ''psychedelic'' for the drugs to which he introduced the writer and essayist Aldous Huxley, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Appleton, Wis. He was 86. The cause was cardiac arrhythmia, said his daughter Euphemia Blackburn of Appleton
 BARR--Daniel. Son of Yael and David Barr, brother of Michael, passed away on February 19, 2004 after a courageous battle with cancer. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday, February 22, 4-7 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to a
 BRAVERMAN--Murray. On February 20, 2004. Beloved husband of Evelyn (nee Wertheimer). He will be missed by his family and friends. Service Sunday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 CASE--Stephen. The entire staff of Rizzoli International Publications mourns the loss of Stephen Case, a highly respected editor and colleague for whom we all had great affection. He will be deeply missed by all who were lucky enough to work with him. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his
 ECKER--Joseph, M.D. Beloved and devoted husband of Eva. Devoted brother-inlaw of Gerson and Judith Leiber. Dr. Ecker was a kind, compassionate physician. A man of great intellect and courage. He always had a warm and friendly smile and enriched the lives of all of us who were fortunate to k
 FISCHBACH -- Herbert. Passed away peacefully February 12th, 2004 at his home in Sonoma, CA. He survived his wife Marilyn, his sister Ros and brothers Jerry and Allan. His smile, generosity and great sense of humor will be missed by his four children Peter, John, Sally and Jim, as well as hi
 FITZGIBBON--John P., 84, died peacefully February 6, 2004, at home in Tucson, AZ. He is survived by his loving wife, Sophie Breckenridge FitzGibbon; his sister, Pat Bueler; his seven children, Timmie Saltzman, Mary Walsh, and John Jr., James, Bonnie, Susan, and Brian FitzGibbon, as well as 
 HERZIG--Philip R. Passed away suddenly on February 20, 2004, in Great Neck, at 79. Beloved husband of Helene Phillips, devoted father of Julie, Thomas and Lydia, father-in-law of Dr. Robert Desnick and Roy Landesberg, adoring grandfather of Stuart, Eddie, Celia, Paige, Jonathan, Emily and S
 HILL--Clinton, 81, died September 16, 2003 at Beth Israel Hospital and had suffered from emphysema. A versatile and inventive abstract artist in acrylics, oils, combines and paperworks. He was an instructor at Queens College. Clinton was born on March 8, 1922 in Idaho. He served in the Navy
 HOVIS -- Eugene Leonard (Gene). The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of God's Love We Deliver are deeply saddened by the loss of our former Board Member and dear friend Gene Hovis. His dedication and commitment to God's Love We Deliver's mission, helped to enrich the lives of thousa
 KLINE--Dr. Milton V. Psychologist and pioneer in hypnotherapy died on January 7 at Northern Westchester Hospital Center, Mount Kisco, NY. He was co-founder of the Society for Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis. Director and founder of the Institute for Research in Hypnosis and Psychotherapy
 KONSKER--Morton. Our dear friend and in-law has been taken from us. We will certainly miss his warmth and zest for life. We trust that his dear wife, three sons and daughters-in-law, and eight grandchildren will be comforted by the wonderful memories he leaves. Brenda and Carlin Axelrod    
 LINS--John P., 89, formerly of New York City, died February 14 in West Chester, PA. He is survived by his wife Marion S. Lins, his children Louise Chinn Ducas, Andrew Lins, and Susan Jackson and four grandchildren. Memorial donations may be made to the Nature Conservency, phone 800-628-6860
 MAYER--Russell J. On February 20, 2004. Loving husband of Jeanne, devoted father of Russell, Jody Mayer and Tom Martini of Boulder, CO, and the late Scott. Adored grandfather of Reed, Tyler, and Ali. Memorial services to be held in Boulder, CO, at a later date. Contributions in his memory m
 McALEER--Daniel. Retired New York City Assessor. Passed away peacefully on February 8, 2004 at the age of 75. He is survived by his loving spouse Edna, sister Ann and brother Simeon. He was interred February 11, 2004.       
 MORGAN--Frederick. On February 20, 2004, after a long illness. Founding editor of The Hudson Review and poet. ''We have lost Fred, but we keep so much of him with us.'' Funeral services will be held on Tuesday, February 24, at 1:30 PM at Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at Fifty-third Stre
 MULDBERG--Eric. The entire Camp Winadu family is saddened by the untimely passing of Eric Muldberg. Our heartfelt condolences to Stephanie, David and Lauren. We grieve with you. Shelley and Arleen Weiner Camp Winadu MULDBERG--Eric. The Budlow family mourns the loss of their dear, sw
 PARSA--Mohamad, M.D. The faculty, staff and students of Columbia University Medical Center mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Mohamad Parsa. Dr. Parsa joined the Columbia community in 1969, completing his residency and clinical fellowship at Harlem Hospital Center betw
 SALINGER--Adrian William. May 31, 1931 to February 19, 2004. He was the music of my spheres. All My Love, Joyce       
 SCHONEBAUM--Alfred. 89, died February 18, 2004. He will be in our hearts always. Donations to Lighthouse International, 111 E. 59th St, NYC.       
 SHINE--Warren S., of Putnam Valley, NY, died peacefully on February 18, 2004. Survived by his daughter, Elizabeth Shine McDevitt; grandson, Liam Warren McDevitt; companion, Connie Gruber; sister, Roberta Kunin, of Madison, WI, and nieces and nephews. Services private. In lieu of flowers, do
 SILAGI--Robert. In San Diego, on Thursday, February 12 at age 88. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 61 years, Shulamith. Distinguished labor lawyer and litigator. Adored father of Daniel and Laura, grandfather, brother and uncle. A friend to working men and women.       
 TEMKIN--Seymour. Age 81, passed away peacefully on February 19, 2004, following a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of Tamara Temkin, brother of Sally Ries, father of Dr. Lawrence Temkin (Barbara), and grandfather of Joshua Temkin and Deborah Temkin. He is also survived by brother-in-law a
 TRAN--Allen, 79, died November 9, 2003 at Cabrini Hospice. The cause was lung cancer. Born outside Pittsburgh, PA on February 7, 1924, he earned a purple heart during the invasion of Italy in World War II. Allen was a longtime staff member at the Museum of Modern Art and he lived more than 
 DRABKIN--Steven Wayne 10/19/61 -- 2/23/81 Within our hearts, he is forever enshrined. Loving family.       
 KATCHER--Arthur. Died February 20, 2003, one year ago, at the age of 96. Devoted husband for 65 years to his wife Evelyn, and caring father to his children, grandchildren, and great - grandchildren. Manufacturer of paper boxes for 80 years, he was president of Paragon Paper Box Corp. On thi
 STOCK--Julius 1/28/22-2/23/03. He loved and was loved beyond measure. He made my heart sing for 56 years. Sylvia Shanker Stoc       
 Bart Howard, the composer of ''Fly Me to the Moon'' and of cabaret songs recorded by Mabel Mercer, Johnny Mathis and many others, died on Saturday in Carmel, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in North Salem, N.Y. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his companion of 58 years, Thom
 E. Phillips Hathaway, a retired Maryland investment banker and a foundation executive, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Owings Mills, Md. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. At his death, Mr. Hathaway was president of the Middendorf Foundation of
 Frederick Morgan, a founder and for 55 years the editor of The Hudson Review, one of the nation's most prestigious literary journals, and the author of more than a dozen books of poetry, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. 
 FINKEL--Dr. Sidney. Caring husband of Dorothy. Devoted and loving father to Jeffrey, Susan, Debra (Robert), Arthur (Jody) and Janet (Yoram) and his grandchildren Allison, Mitchell and Isabel. A source of strength and comfort to his patients. Services Monday, 1:30 pm, at the ''Riverside - Na
 GOLDBERG--Bernard. Age 79, passed away peacefully February 22. Beloved husband for 56 years to Carole. Devoted brother of Dotty Raines, and the late Gussie Camac. Dedicated father of Stewart (Gladys) and Avery (Leila) and adoring grandfather of Jonathan. Bernard was the nucleus and the very
 HERZIG--Philip R. You were a brother-in-law who was cherished, an uncle who was loved. You will be profoundly missed as a valued and respected member of our family. Carolyn Minskoff Sara and Robb Allan HERZIG--Philip R. A man of quality and high standards, but endearing also. His de
 MORGAN--Frederick. On February 20, 2004, after a long illness. Founding editor of The Hudson Review and poet. ''We have lost Fred, but we keep so much of him with us.'' Funeral services will be held on Tuesday, February 24, at 1:30 PM at Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at Fifty-third Stre
 Andy Seminick, a major league catcher for 15 seasons who was the last surviving lineup regular for the Whiz Kids, the Philadelphia Phillies' 1950 pennant winners, died Sunday in Melbourne, Fla. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his son, Andy Jr., said. When the Phillies won t
 Charles B. Benenson, a commercial real estate executive who oversaw the development of some of New York's most prestigious properties, died Sunday, according to his brother Lawrence. He was 91. Mr. Benenson worked in partnership with some of New York's oldest real estate families, i
 ACKERMAN -- Murray N. Adoring and beloved husband of Jean Gurin, married for 55 years. Devoted father of Robert (Randi) Ackerman and Susan (Irwin) Leibowitz, and cherished grandfather of Sean, Brittany, Jessica and Lauren, has silenced his song; but his melody lingers on. He fought valiantl
 BARR--Daniel. Beloved, cherished friend. A man of great intellect, wit, charm and compassion. He will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Jody, Rachi, James & Harry       
 BENENSON--Charles B. Devoted and beloved husband of Jane. Devoted and beloved father of Bruce William, Frederick and Lawrence. Cherished brother of Lawrence and Raymond. Passed away suddenly on February 22 in Palm Beach, FL. He lived to be 91 years old and remained active in his many pursui
 GOLDBERG--Bernard. Age 79, passed away peacefully February 22. Beloved husband for 56 years to Carole. Devoted brother of Dotty Raines, and the late Gussie Camac. Dedicated father of Stewart (Gladys) and Avery (Leila) and adoring grandfather of Jonathan. Bernard was the nucleus and the very
 HOWARD--Bart. With sadness we mourn the passing of Bart Howard, a sweet, gentle man, brilliant composer and wonderful neighbor. Our heartfelt condolences to his companion Bud. Your 58-year relationship is an inspiration and beacon of light for us. Frank Selvaggi and Bill Shea       
 KLINE--Dr. Milton V. Psychologist and pioneer in hypnotherapy died on January 7 at Northern Westchester Hospital Center, Mount Kisco, NY. He was co-founder of the Society for Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis. Director and founder of the Institute for Research in Hypnosis and Psychotherapy
 LOWY--Robert, M.D., on February 23, 2004, of Douglaston, NY. Most beloved husband of Beverly. Devoted and caring father of Larry (Patsy) and Monica. Doting grandfather of Rachel and Alice. Dedicated physician and teacher. Visiting in the Doyle B. Shaffer Inc. Funeral Home, Little Neck Parkw
 MECHANECK -- Dr. Isidore. Died Sunday, February 22, 2004 at age 96. Devoted and loving husband of the late Anna Mechaneck. Beloved father of Ruth and Deborah Mechaneck; adoring grandfather of Christopher Chrzanowski and David Anderson. Founding Member of H.I.P. of N.Y., began his medical ca
 MORGAN--Frederick. On February 20, 2004, after a long illness. Founding editor of The Hudson Review and poet. ''We have lost Fred, but we keep so much of him with us.'' Funeral services will be held on Tuesday, February 24, at 1:30 PM at Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at Fifty-third Stre
 PRENTICE -- Herbert, Dr. Born July 28, 1915, died February 13, 2004 at his home in Florida. A brilliant and innovative Podiatrist renowned in his field. His absence leaves us deeply saddened.       
 PRESSMAN--Larry. On February 22, 2004, of Lynn, MA. Wonderful and caring big brother to his sister Florence Pressman of Lynn, formerly of Manhattan. He was an incredible human being who fought his illness with unbelievable courage. He was a dedicated father who loved and was loved by his so
 RATHE--Julian, 88, of Hallandale, FL (formerly of Riverdale, NY) on February 20, 2004. Partner in H&P Mayer Inc. from 1945-1985. Survived by Irma, his wife of 63 years, daughters Evelyn Radelman of Aventura, FL and Joan Rice of NYC, grandchildren Marni and Glynis Radelman. He will be greatl
 SCHEINBERG--Labe C., M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of our distinguished professor emeritus, a founding member of our Saul R. Korey Department of Neurology and Dean of our institution from 1970-1972. Dr. Scheinberg, a 
 Dan Kiley, a seminal landscape architect who combined modernist functionalism with classical design principles in more than 1,000 projects, died on Saturday at his home in Charlotte, Vt. He was 91. His son-in-law, David Holmes, said that death occurred after a period of declining he
 ADLER -- Fabian. Beloved husband of Joyce for 52 years, cherished father of Amy and Brad, and Eric; dear brother-in-law of Elaine, loving uncle and great uncle. Greatly respected by his colleagues. We will miss you sorely. Funeral services Wednesday, 12 noon, at ''Gutterman's'', Rockville C
 BENENSON--Charles B. Devoted and beloved husband of Jane. Devoted and beloved father of Bruce William, Frederick and Lawrence. Cherished brother of Lawrence and Raymond. Passed away suddenly on February 22 in Palm Beach, FL. He lived to be 91 years old and remained active in his many pursui
 BLOCH--Gilbert M. On Monday, February 23, 2004, in Palm Beach Gardens, FL at age 76. Devoted and loving husband of Beatrice, much beloved and caring father of Larry (Cindy) Bloch, Babette (Marc) Mellon, Jayne (Brian) Hickey; cherished grandfather of Reisa, Matthew, Julia, Rachel, Daniel and
 BRING--Ira. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Ira Bring, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Sylvia, and the entire family. Marc Goldberg, President Rabbi Stanley Platek       
 GOLDBERG--Bernard. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sadness the loss of our beloved Chairman and friend. For over twenty years, Bernie provided vision and leadership to the Hebrew Home. His support of the new initia
 JANNOR--Andrew. I feel like a ''snowflake'' in a blizzard, said he as he lay dying in the ICU. For a decade, he turned adversity into a raucous Borscht Belt joke. It was lovely caring for him. I will miss him. Betrand M. Bell, M.D.       
 LOWY--Robert, M.D., on February 23, 2004, of Douglaston, NY. Most beloved husband of Beverly. Devoted and caring father of Larry (Patsy) and Monica. Doting grandfather of Rachel and Alice. Dedicated physician and teacher. Visiting in the Doyle B. Shaffer Inc. Funeral Home, Little Neck Parkw
 PETROCELLI--Lucio G. Age 68 a resident of Cold Spring, New York, passed away on February 24, 2004. Devoted and Beloved life long partner of Frank Bumpus. Devoted & cherished brother of Orlando, Anthony, Attilio, Josephine Chiarello, Jeanette Calcaterra, Florence Soldo, Frances Lohse, Uncle 
 RIKER--Walter. The Faculty of the Department of Pharmacology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University mourns the death of Dr. Walter Riker, Jr., our esteemed former chairman. Dr. Riker led this department with great distinction from 1956-1983. He manifested the highest standards of acad
 SCHEINBERG--Dr. Labe C. The family and friends of Labe mourn his death on February 22, 2004 at age 78 and celebrate his life as husband, father, physician, scientist, author and educator. Dr. Scheinberg was a Neurologist and neuro-scientist specializing in the treatment of Multiple Sclerosi
 SPERBER--Sanford M. On February 24, 2004. Passed on after a valiant battle with acute leukemia. He leaves behind his beloved wife Sheila, his son Richard Goldblatt and his wife Jeanette, his son Stephen Goldblatt, his brother Gary and his beloved mother Sylvia. He will be missed by all who 
 WEISSMAN -- Samuel. Died peacefully in his 94th year on February 7, 2004. He will be greatly missed by Miriam, his wife and friend of 58 years, son Paul, daughter-in-law Lourdes, and grandchildren Gabriel and Julian. He is also survived by his brother Ben and sister Gertrude and by many nie
 H. Daniel Carpenter, a longtime leader in the national settlement house movement and for 30 years the director of the Hudson Guild in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, died on Feb. 7 in Tucson, Ariz. He was 95 and had moved to Tucson in 2002 after living in Chelsea for 71 years.       
 Jeremiah S. Gutman, a founding member of the New York Civil Liberties Union and a fixture of the civil rights bar in Manhattan for 50 years, died yesterday after suffering a heart attack at the Metro-North train station in Hastings-on-Hudson, his daughter Thea Gutman said. He was 80 and liv
 BENENSON--Charles B. Devoted and beloved husband of Jane. Devoted and beloved father of Bruce William, Frederick and Lawrence. Cherished brother of Lawrence and Raymond. Passed away suddenly on February 22 in Palm Beach, FL. He lived to be 91 years old and remained active in his many pursui
 BLOCH--Gilbert M. On Monday, February 23, 2004, in Palm Beach Gardens, FL at age 76. Devoted and loving husband of Beatrice, much beloved and caring father of Larry (Cindy) Bloch, Babette (Marc) Mellon, Jayne (Brian) Hickey; cherished grandfather of Reisa, Matthew, Julia, Rachel, Daniel and
 MEACHAM--Henry Wade, Sr. M.D. In loving memory of Dr. Meacham, Sr. by his family and friends.       
 MICHAEL--Ivan A. Born November 8, 1924, died February 21, 2004. He is survived by his daughters Bess J. Michael, Leslie H. Lowe, and son Edward H. Lowe and his brothers Earl, Miles and Rex. A gathering in his memory will be held Friday, February 27, 4-8:30 PM at Benta's Funeral Home, 630 St
 MORENSTEIN--Donald Saul, passed away on his 54th birthday after a valiant battle. Loving son of the late Ruth and Bernard; devoted brother and brother-in-law of Martha Morenstein and Gary Meltzer and Julia and Gary Shore; extraordinary uncle to Max Meltzer and Robin and Emma Shore; wonderfu
 PARRETT -- Marie. The Board and staff of Carnegie Hall note with sadness the passing of Marie Parrett, mother of our esteemed Board member William Parrett. Bill's ardent commitment to bettering this city and to a strong cultural inheritance among its citizens surely developed from his lifel
 RIKER--Walter F., Jr., M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Walter Riker, former Chairman of the Department of Pharmacology at Weill Cornell Medical College and former Attending Physician at New YorkPresbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. Dr. Riker spent his entire 
 VOGEL--Donald. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague who 50 years ago founded the Valley House Gallery in Dallas and who served his clients and the artists he represented with great distinction. Our condolences to his wife, Erika and his 
 Alvino Rey, a bandleader of the swing era who made the steel guitar sing and led many talented young musicians in honing their signature sounds, died on Tuesday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 95. His death was confirmed yesterday by his son Jon. Mr. Rey, who styled hi
 Frederick Booker Noe II, former master distiller of Jim Beam and the sixth generation of the Beam family to make bourbon, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Bardstown, Ky. He was 74. His death came after an extended illness, his son, Frederick Booker Noe III, said. A grandson of
 BARR--Daniel. We deeply mourn the passing of our wonderful friend & esteemed colleague, Daniel Barr, who we will miss greatly and who will always be present in our memory. We admired Daniel's fine and dazzling intellect, as well as his sharp wit and humor. Each moment with him was joyful an
 BENENSON--Charles B. Devoted and beloved husband of Jane. Devoted and beloved father of Bruce William, Frederick and Lawrence. Cherished brother of Lawrence and Raymond. Passed away suddenly on February 22 in Palm Beach, FL. He lived to be 91 years old and remained active in his many pursui
 DEL REGNO--Hugh Francis. Born on July 26, 1927 in New York, New York. Passed away on February 25, 2004 in Studio City, California. He is survived by his loving wife of 42 years Muriel Del Regno, eight loving children, five grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Cardinal
 GUTMAN--Jeremiah S. Meretz USA mourns our esteemed President. A giant in the fight for civil rights and liberties, he brought equal passion and courage to the cause of peace, pluralism and democracy for Israel. Heartfelt condolences to Marilyn, Ariel, Emanuel, Malaika, Thea, Rebecca, Mara a
 KAUL--N.G., 57. Brilliant man, kind and loving friend. Husband of Kalpana, father to Tia and wonderful fatherin-law to Grant Disick. His humor and goodness will always be with us. Laurie, Ellis, Evan and Skipper and Caryl       
 LANTIER--James. We mourn the loss of James Lantier, father of our dear friend and partner, Brendan. We know that James was a wonderful husband, father and grandfather. He will be missed. McAloon & Friedman, P.C.       
 MEACHAM--Henry Wade, Sr. M.D. In loving memory of Dr. Meacham, Sr. by his family and friends.       
 MICHAEL--Ivan A. Born November 8, 1924, died February 21, 2004. He is survived by his daughters Bess J. Michael, Leslie H. Lowe, and son Edward H. Lowe and his brothers Earl, Miles and Rex. A gathering in his memory will be held Friday, February 27, 4-8:30 PM at Benta's Funeral Home, 630 St
 ROY CHOWDHURY--Bhaskar. Celebrated dancer and talented artist originally from Madras, India. Well known for his interpretations of the various dances of India. Loving friend to many who will sorely miss him.       
 SCIALOM--Joe. Internationally acclaimed mixologist and creator of the ''Suffering Bastard.'' He will be sorely missed by his daughter, Colette, and grandsons Laurent and Dylan.       
 John Randolph, a Tony Award-winning actor who was a veteran on Broadway and in the movies, died on Tuesday at his home in Hollywood, his daughter, Martha Randolph, said. He was 88. Mr. Randolph, whose career stretched from Broadway in the 1930's to recent Hollywood films like ''You'
 AXELROD -- Albert. The membership and the Board of the Fencers Club mourn the loss of Albert Axelrod, 1960 individual foil olympic bronze medalist, Director Emeritus and member for over four decades. Albie was one of the greatest competitors of his or any generation, whose results as a foil
 MICHAEL -- Ivan A. The Board of Directors, staff, friends and families of Greater Harlem Nursing Home are deeply saddened by the passing of Ivan A. Michael, attorney, friend & community supporter. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. Chairman Emeritus Rodney
 SEAMANS--Peter Bosson, Sr. 80, of Marblehead, MA, suddenly in Antigua, West Indies, February 24, 2004. Son of the late Robert and Pauline Seamans; husband for nearly 58 years to Anne Lockwood Putnam Seamans; also survived by his five children. Relatives and friends are respectfully invited 
 VREELAND--Donald Walker, 84, died on February 26. Born in Summit, NJ, graduate of Hotchkiss School and Princeton University, 1942, US Army Veteran World War II, stockbroker in New York until retirement to Stuart, FL in 1997. Recently, he lived at Meadow Lakes in Hightstown, NJ. Survived by 
 Walter F. Riker Jr., former chairman of the pharmacology department at Cornell Medical College, who in 1973 became the first drug adviser to the National Football League, died on Feb. 20 in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. Dr. Riker died at New York Hospital,his son 
 Bernard Goldberg, a former chief executive of Schenley Industries and the American Distilling Company, died last Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in retirement in Williams Island, Fla. His death was announced by the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Bron
 Daniel J. Boorstin, a Pulitzer Prize-winning author and social historian who was the librarian of Congress for 12 years, died yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 89 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia, said his son David. Dr. Boorsti
 CONWAY--John Keegan, age 74, died peacefully on February 24, in Newport, RI, surrounded by his loving family following a long battle with Alzheimer's disease. After graduating from high school in Lowell, MA, where he was born, he attended Harvard University, graduating in 1950. He then atte
 DUBINSKY--Joseph, M.D. Beloved husband of Louise for 50 years. Proud and loving father of Steven and Leslie. Father-in-law of Dina and Carol, and delighted Poppa of Noah and Liza. A man of wit, wisdom and kindness; an independent spirit who cared deeply for his family, friends, patients and
 GALEF -- James M. The Board of Trustees, Headmaster, faculty, staff & the Collegiate School community mourn the loss of devoted alumnus and former Trustee James M. Galef '74. Mr. Galef served the School as a longtime member of the Alumni Council and as a Trustee from 1996 to 2002. His stewa
 GOODHART--Martin. With profound sadness we mourn the passing of Martin Goodhart on February 26, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife Shirley, his children Marilyn and Richard, his son-in-law Frank; his grandchildren Ian, Adam, Brian, Joshua and Ryan, and his great grandchildren Ilana, Is
 GUTMAN--Jeremiah S. Of the law firm Levy Gutman, died February 25, 2004. He was born October 19, 1923, in Brooklyn. Beloved husband of Marilyn, most loving father to Malaika, Ariel and Emanuel. Father of Thea, Mara and Rebecca. Brother of Robert. Visiting Sunday, 2-5 PM, Edwards-Dowdle Fune
 MATLOVSKY--Samuel ''Sandy,'' composer and conductor, died peacefully Tuesday, February 17, at his home in Haverhill, MA. He was 82. At the time of his death, he was working on a play on the life of Galileo. He was the husband of the late Barbara Ellis and his survivors include his daughters
 PAUL--Mark, age 78, passed away on Sunday, February 15, 2004, in San Francisco. Mark is survived by his son Jonathan Paul, fire fighter and animal rights activist in Williams, Oregon, and twin daughters Caroline Paul, author, San Francisco, and Alexandra Paul, actress, Los Angeles. Born Dec
 RAFF--Herbert K. On February 22. Lieutenant Commander USN WW II, Yorktown, Pacific Theater. Member of Squadron A Club and Racquet & Tennis Club. Survived by his loving wife Bridget (Gates) and children Peter K. Raff, Nancy W. Distler, Mary B. Kortea, stepsons Jonathan F. Gates, Ralph L. Gat
 SCIALOM--Joe. Internationally acclaimed mixologist and creator of the ''Suffering Bastard.'' He will be sorely missed by his daughter, Colette, and grandsons Laurent and Dylan.       
 SEAMANS--Peter Bosson, Sr. 80, of Marblehead, MA, suddenly in Antigua, West Indies, February 24, 2004. Son of the late Robert and Pauline Seamans; husband for nearly 58 years to Anne Lockwood Putnam Seamans; also survived by his five children. Relatives and friends are respectfully invited 
 SMALL--Irwin, 94, of Keene, NH, formerly of New Rochelle, NY, died Monday, February 23, 2004, after a brief illness. Mr. Small operated his own accounting firm in New York City for more than six decades. He was the beloved husband of Rebecca, father of Margaret Zanger and Roberta Small Risc
 TONE--Richard. The entertainer who appeared on Broadway, television and film passed away February 18, 2004, after a long bout with Parkinson's disease at the age of 75. Born in Yonkers, NY, Rodolfo Tutoni, better known as ''Rudy'' was the loving son of the late Rudolph and Anna Tutoni. Amon
 WOLF--Semon II. 74, died Monday, February 23, 2004, at home. Born in New York City he graduated from Horace Mann High School in 1947. He graduated from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, where he received a bachelor's degree in science and economics in 1951. H
