 Harold Steinberg, a former co-owner and executive of the Chelsea House publishing company, died on Friday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and had moved to the Kateri Residence nursing home in Manhattan from East Hampton, N.Y., three years ago. Che
 Lawrence Daniel Duke Sr., a retired state judge who as a young prosecutor fought for civil rights and against the Ku Klux Klan in rigidly segregationist Georgia, died on March 24 at Fayette Community Hospital in Fayetteville, Ga. He was 86 and lived in nearby Tyrone. Mr. Duke succes
 Max Mandell, who grew up with a mother who didn't love him and a grandfather who did, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and as the founder of the Mandell Nursery School and Kindergarten had devoted his life to making up for a mother's rejection by passing on
 ABELSON-Cdr. Nathaniel O., of New York City. Born April 3, 1920, died March 30, 1999. A graduate of the Harvey School, Katonah, NY, Philips Andover Academy, Andover, Mass., and Yale University, New Haven, Conn, Class of '42. Grew up in Boston, Mass., a member of the U.S. Naval Reserve, the 
 CAMHY-Nathan (Nissim). On March 30, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Miriam, adored father and father-in-law of Marna and Stuart Novack, Robyn and Mitchell Blaser, Melissa Camhy and Eric Levine, cherished Papoo of Eric and Tracy, Elana, Alexandra, Heather, Adam, Michael, and Rachel, affect
 KANE-Bernard, 72. Of Delray Beach, Fla., and Ardsley, NY. Survived by his beloved wife, son, daughter and four grandchildren. A leader in the field of elevator modernization and computerization. Co-founder of New York Elevator and Computerized Elevator Control. An accomplished aviator and e
 RICCI-John. Professor Emeritus, NYU, died March 30, age 92. For all his 43 years as a faculty member, he was a great teacher and scientist. He was the pre-eminent authority on phase rule and heterogeneous equilibrium. Consultant Oak Ridge National Lab. Article Encyclopaedia Britannica. High
 SAGOR-Irving. The Board of Governors and Members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Irving Sagor. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his family. Bernard Steinweg, President Heidi Klein, Secretary       
 WEINBERGER-Akiva Joseph. We are saddened by the sudden loss of Joseph Weinberger, beloved husband of Gertrude, devoted father of Hillel and Mark and their wives, Elaine and Deborah, respected grandfather of Levi, Avi, Noam, Sarah and Ezra. A Learned Man. A Survivor. Mr. Weinberger's goodnes
 HARRIS-Joseph. December 13, 1900-April 1, 1983. Dearest loving husband of Sylvia & dearest loving father of J. Robert and James B. Dearest loving grandfather and great-grandfather. A great business & theatrical legend in his own time. Original producer of Broadway shows, ''Sweet Charity'' a
 Graenum Berger, an American who campaigned long and successfully for having Ethiopia's Falashas, who are also called Ethiopian Jews, transported to Israel, died on Wednesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 90. Mr. Berger, a social worker by profession, worked for years for 
 Harold Greenwald, a psychotherapist whose doctoral dissertation on the psychology of prostitutes evolved into a best-selling 1958 book, ''The Call Girl,'' and a Hollywood movie, ''Girl of the Night,'' died on Friday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 88. Though Dr. Greenwald
 AVIDON-Archie. On March 29,1999. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Cherished father of Florence & Louise. Dear brother of Ruth. Devoted Grandpa of Susannah, Deborah, Sarah, David, Miriam, Naomi & Andrew. Great grandfather of seven. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 CLAYTON-Robert Hester, Jr., of NY and Quiogue, NY, passed away on March 28, 1999 in West Palm Beach, FL. He was the beloved husband of the late Maria F. Clayton and is survived by his brothers Ralph and James, both of Deland, FL, his sister Nancy Meeks of High Point, NC, and 18 nieces and n
 EHRLICH-Carl. Cherished husband of Helen. Devoted father of Richard and Ruth, Michael and Susan, Amy and Joseph Fins. Adoring grandfather of Joseph and Robert, Daniel and Jacob. Caring brother-in-law of Jefferson B. Cohen. A man of great character. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'' 1450 Broa
 FRANK-Herbert P. On March 31, 1999 at the age of 89. Beloved husband of the late Gwen, loving father of Ellen and Lee. Cherished grandfather of Lisa, Wendy, John, Stephen and Julie and great grandfather of Carly. President of Washington Beef Company, Inc. since 1940, founded by his father i
 KATZ-Arthur T. Died peacefully on Thursday morning. Beloved husband and best friend of Ruth. Loving father of Steven, Paul (Yoko) John (Tracy) and proud grandfather of Jed and Spencer. Brother of Alice (Marty) and Richard (Verna) and dear uncle. Graduate of Dartmouth 1956, former president 
 KRUP-Louis, (Louie). On March 30, 1999. Devoted husband to the late Mollie. Loving father to Arlene Hirschler, Rita Weissberg, Phyllis Engelberg and son-in-law Betzalel Engelberg. Cherished grandfather of Peter, Mitchell (Karen); Hillary, (Mauricio); Rebekah, (Tom); Ron; Keren; Maya and Dan
 LANAHAN-Rev. William F.X. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the former faculty member of Cathedral College on March 28. Reposing at Edward F. Lieber Funeral Home, 9 E. Valley Stream Blvd., Valley Stream, on Saturday, April 3rd, from 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 P.M. Funeral Mass Monday, A
 MOUNT-Lester A., M.D. Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and New York Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of Lester A. Mount, professor emeritus and consultant emeritus of clinical neurosurgery. A worldwide lecturer, he made many outstanding contributions to medical ed
 Dr. Robert Flint Chandler Jr., a retired agronomist with the Rockefeller Foundation and a leader in the fight against hunger in Asia, died on March 23 at Waterman Hospital in Eustis, Fla. He was 91 and lived in nearby Mount Dora. Dr. Chandler joined the foundation staff in 1954 and 
 William Henry Dial, a lawyer, banker and civic leader in Florida who helped reinvent Orlando, a little town of citrus groves, as a vacation and convention mecca known the world over, died on March 23 at his home in Orlando. He was 91. Mr. Dial played a pivotal part in the 1960's in 
 Lucien Aigner, a pioneer in candid news photography in the 1930's whose best-known photographs include one of a rumpled Albert Einstein in front of a blackboard, died on Monday in a nursing home in Waltham, Mass. He was 97. In the 30's, photographers like Mr. Aigner, Erich Salomon, 
 CLAYTON-Robert Hester, Jr., of NY and Quiogue, NY, passed away on March 28, 1999 in West Palm Beach, FL. He was the beloved husband of the late Maria F. Clayton and is survived by his brothers Ralph and James, both of Deland, FL, his sister Nancy Meeks of High Point, NC, and 18 nieces and n
 KANE-Bernard. It is with deep sadness that the Board of Governors and members of Elmwood Country Club record the loss of our esteemed member, Bernard Kane. He and his family have been members of Elmwood for over 30 years. Bernard had a distinguished career in the elevator industry where he 
 LIPMAN-Walter. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Ilene (Harvey) Burstein, loving grandfather of Staci and Joshua Burstein, adored brother of Michael (Gloria) and the late Carol. Graveside services Sunday, April 4th at 10:30 A.M., at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, New York. (516)
 MELLER-Irwin. On April 2, 1999. A stockbroker with Grayson and Burger in Greenwich, Connecticut. Beloved and loving husband of Carola. Devoted father to Louise Meller and Jay Lukowski and John and Rita Meller. Doting grandfather to Aliza and Rebecca Lukowski and Kevin Meller. He was also a 
 MORSE-Harry Edson Sr. Born June 12, 1915 in Washington, D.C. died on April 1, 1999 after a brief illness in Los Angeles, CA. His wife, Dorothy Morse, preceded him in death. His children: Joan Brooke, Harry E. Morse, Candice Smith and Robert Morse, ten grandchildren and four greatgrandchildr
 PALMER-F. Morgan. On March 22, 1999, devoted husband of the late Susan B. Palmer, father of F. Morgan Palmer Jr, and Thomas P.F. Palmer. Contributions may be made in his memory to The Church of The Holy Trinity Garden Fund, 316 East 88th Street, New York, New York 10128.       
 RIESENFELD-Stanley. Adored husband of Nancy. Beloved father of Danielle and Lauren, Michelle and Adam. Dear son-in-law of Jackie and Harvey, loving brother-in-law of Judy, Barbara and Ken. Cherished uncle to Jodi, Lisa, Jonathan and Jessie. ''He was special to all who knew him''. Services S
 SANDLER-Mark. On April 2, 1999 at the age of 93. Beloved husband of the late Edythe, loving father of Nancy and David Gavrin and Ellen Sandler. Dearest grandfather of Andrew, Beth, Barbara, Joanne and Meredith. Great grandfather of three. Funeral service at Temple Israel of New Rochelle, Su
 Sheldon Bernard Kopp, a clinical psychologist and author of books designed to bolster the reader's self-esteem, died on Monday, his 70th birthday, at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He lived in nearby Silver Spring, Md. The cause was cardiac arrhythmia and pneumonia, h
 Edward A. Manfield, a world champion bridge player, died on Monday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 55. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Melanie. In 1986, Mr. Manfield was a member of an American team that won the Rosenblum Cup for the World Team Championship.
 George Rapee, one of the world's foremost bridge players, died Thursday at his home in Floral City, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Rapee was a winner of three world championship titles at the start of the modern series of competitions: in Bermuda in 1950, in Naples in 1951 and in Manhattan in 
 ADAMS-Charles C. III. Age 61, of New York, NY, died with dignity on April 1, 1999 after a three-year courageous battle with ALS. Mr. Adams attended Groton School and Harvard College. He was a Senior Vice President with Chemical Bank before opening the New York office of R.W. Corby & Co. He 
 BAUMAN-Paul. Of Boca Raton, FL, died on April 3, 1999, at 77 years old. Beloved husband of Diane; adoring father of Elizabeth, Pamela and Deborah; devoted grandfather of Jacob, Sasha, Hanna and Sophie; dear brother of Judah and Ruth. One of the original settlers of Jersey Homesteads, now kn
 BERGER-Graenum. The Board of Directors of the Usdan Center extend our condolences to the family of Graenum Berger. We remember with affection and esteem his inspiration in helping to create Usdan. The vision he imparted also provided superb guidance and support. His was a true friendship ov
 BRUNO-Christopher, on March 30, 1999. Dear brother of Dolores Rose and Ethel Anderson. Loving uncle of Bruce and Jane Anderson. Devoted companion of the late Julian Moses. He will be deeply missed.       
 BRY-Richard John, 1914-1999. Harvard Class of '35, decorated member of the Signal Corps (Okinawa). Adored husband of Betty and honored father of Ellen, William and John. Dick was a published author, creative chef and textiles executive. We will miss his wry wit, his green thumb and his love
 COOK-Irving. On April 3, 1999. A longtime resident of Mamaroneck, he was the former owner of Cook's Restaurant in Larchmont, and a longtime member of Larchmont Temple. Loving father of Elizabeth Cook and Doris Klein. Dear father-in-law of Mordecai Klein, M.D. Cherished grandfather of Caroli
 COOPER-Milton. Retired attorney, age 89, died on March 31. Husband of the late Freda Weiner. He is survived by his children Alan and Beth, and siblings Lillian, Ruth and Stanley.       
 EISENBUD-Dr. Jule. The Board, staff and members of the American Society for Psychical Research mourn the passing of Dr. Jule Eisenbud. Dr. Eisenbud was an eminent psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and psychical researcher with the courage and vision to explore the uncharted realms of human experi
 GAHERTY-William Vincent. 77, died in his Pawling, NY home on April 1. Beloved husband of the late Renee, he is survived by his four children and six grandchildren. He graduated from Manhattan College and served as an Officer with the 388th Bombardment Group in World War II. Graduating from 
 GERSTENFELD - Saul Wayne. The Officers, Trustees, Trustees Council and Membership of the Brooklyn Bar Association mourn the passing of Saul Wayne Gerstenfeld, a Trustee of our Association, and extend condolences to his family. Paul A. Golinski, Esq., President Avery Eli Okin, Esq., CAE Exec
 HEDIN-Gordon Webster. On December 5, 1998 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Frances. Devoted father of Anne Hedin Thompson and Mark Gordon Hedin. Loving grandfather of Hugh Gordon Thompson, Olivia Thompson and Beatrice Thompson. Memorial service April 8, 5PM, Brick Presbyterian Churc
 MELLER-Irwin. On April 2, 1999. A stockbroker with Grayson and Burger in Greenwich, Connecticut. Beloved and loving husband of Carola. Devoted father to Louise Meller and Jay Lukowski and John and Rita Meller. Doting grandfather to Aliza and Rebecca Lukowski and Kevin Meller. Dearest brothe
 RAPEE-George N. Died peacefully April 1, 1999 in his Floral City, FL home at the age of 83. Beloved husband of Joellen Hall Rapee. Loving father of Christina Winkler. Proud, caring grandfather of James Governale and William Winkler, Jr. He retired to central Florida following a successful c
 RIESENFELD-Stanley. Adored husband of Nancy. Beloved father of Danielle and Lauren, Michelle and Adam. Dear son-in-law of Jackie and Harvey, loving brother-in-law of Judy, Barbara and Ken. Cherished uncle to Jodi, Lisa, Jonathan, Jessie, and sister-in-law to Patty. ''He was special to all w
 ROBECK-Peter Martin. Of Pacific Palisades, CA., formerly of New Canaan, CT and New York City; on March 30, 1999, after a long illness; at age 81. As founding president and chairman of Time-Life Films, Mr. Robeck and the British Broadcasting Corporation co-produced such television milestones
 ROSS-John J., Esq. On April 3, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth (nee Doonan). Loving father of Elizabeth Rutigliano, John, Mary C.S.J., Dolores, Bernard and Bernadette Devlin. Fond brother of James, Thomas and Helen Ross. Also survived by eight grandchildren. Reposing at Denis S.
 STEINBERG-Lionel S. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of the American Associates, BenGurion University of the Negev mourn the passing of our dear friend and Board of Chancellor Member, Lionel Steinberg of Palm Springs, California. Lionel was a successful farmer, philanthropist and 
 WELCH-John. 71. Of New York City, formerly of Boston on March 26 after a short illness. He was the son of the late John and Grace Welch of Boston. A graduate of Roxbury Latin School, Philips Exeter Academy and Harvard College, he also held a MA from Boston University. In New York he worked 
 Lionel Bart, the composer, lyricist and playwright best known for the musical ''Oliver!,'' died on Saturday in Hammersmith Hospital in London, his longtime hometown. He was 68. The cause was cancer, his family said. Although Mr. Bart was frustrated in his efforts to repeat h
 ADAMS-Charles C. III. Age 61, of New York, NY, died with dignity on April 1, 1999 after a three-year courageous battle with ALS. Mr. Adams attended Groton School and Harvard College. He was a Senior Vice President with Chemical Bank before opening the New York office of R.W. Corby & Co. He 
 BARNETT-Ralph N. On April 3, 1999. Beloved husband of Mary. Devoted father of Jonathan, Mark, Kim and Caron. Loving father-in-law of Patricia. Adored grandpa of Michael and Robert. Funeral service, Monday, 11:30 AM, at Plaza Memorial, 91st St. & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, donations 
 BAUMAN-Paul. Of Boca Raton, FL, died on April 3, 1999, at 77 years old. Beloved husband of Diane; adoring father of Elizabeth, Pamela and Deborah; loving father-in-law of Bertil Lundqvist and Dr. Steve Levine; devoted grandfather of Jacob, Sasha, Hanna and Sophie; dear brother of Judah and 
 CHAN-Stephen. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Stephen Chan, and extend to his bereaved wife, Miriam, and the members of his family, our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretar
 COOK-Irving. On April 3, 1999. A longtime resident of Mamaroneck, he was the former owner of Cook's Restaurant in Larchmont, and a longtime member of Larchmont Temple. Loving father of Elizabeth Cook and Doris Klein. Dear father-in-law of Mordecai Klein, M.D. Cherished grandfather of Caroli
 FREEMAN-Henry E. Of Greenwich, CT, on April 3 at his home. Husband of Marjatta Freeman of Greenwich. Father of Vivian Rosenberg, and grandfather of Brian Rosenberg, both of Westport, CT. Funeral service and interment will be held privately.       
 FRIEDMAN-Jerold B. Died on April 3, 1999. Loving husband of Linda. Devoted and loving father of Brett and Jennifer. Beloved brother of Nina L. Friedman and Karen J. Keiser, and beloved son of Lucille T. Friedman and the late Samuel M. Friedman. Chief Financial Officer of Executive Jet, Inc.
 GEVERTZ-Allan H. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Allan H. Gevertz. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. David E. Marrus, Pres
 HEUSTEIN-Hal. The Board of Directors of the Subcontractors Trade Association (STA) is deeply saddened by the passing of Hal Heustein, a dear friend and former member of the Board, on March 26, 1999. Hal, a known figure in the building industry, has been involved with New York City's constru
 LUTZ-Albert William, Sr. 85, of Asheville, NC. Died Tuesday March 30 in Pineville, NC. He was employed as a management consultant moving to Asheville from Rockville Centre, NY in December 1980. Mr. Lutz was predeceased on July 26, 1981 by his first wife Margaret Mary Colby. He is survived b
 SCHWARTZ-Arnold M. Retired First Sergeant. Age 65, a retired Battalion Administrator, Department of the Army, died April 2, at his home in Conway, SC, due to an illness acquired during his participation in the Desert Storm Campaign. Mr. Schwartz was born in Brooklyn, NY, the son of the late
 Peter Pellegrino, who became so skystruck growing up in the Lindbergh era that he devoted his life to aviation and pursued his interest back to the very dawn of manned flight, died on March 26 at a hospital near his home in Newtown, Pa. He was 82 and had been a founder of the Balloon Federa
 Rear Adm. Rafael C. Benitez, who directed an extraordinary rescue operation when his submarine caught fire in one of the first American undersea spy missions of the cold war, died on March 6 at Memorial Hospital in Easton, Md. Admiral Benitez, who saw his submarine sink but lost only one of
 Early Wynn, the Hall of Fame right-hander who won 300 games over 23 seasons, dominating American League batters with a legendary meanness to match his talent, died Sunday night at an assisted-living center in Venice, Fla. He was 79. The cause was complications of a stroke, Wynn's bu
 BAUMAN-Paul. The partners and staff of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig & Klein, LLP mourn the loss of our good friend and retired partner. He practiced with the firm for more than forty years and his leadership, intellect and sage advice will be missed by all of us and by his many clients and frie
 BERGER-Graenum. Helped to create the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds Inc. 45 years ago. He nurtured our growth with his honesty, judgement and unfailing support. In doing so, he touched the lives of hundreds of thousands of day campers in the NY area. We are all honored to have known him. We ext
 BERMAN-Sidney S. Died in his sleep on April 5, 1999 at age 83, retired attorney. Husband to the late Bernice Berman. He is survived by his daughters Ellen and Jackie and his three grandchildren Stephanie, Paul, and Daniel. He is also survived by his loving companion and friend Shirley Etra,
 CHAN-Stephen, age 88, of Palm Beach, Fla., died after a threeyear battle with Parkinson's disease on Saturday, April 3, 1999. Mr. Chan was an accountant and a managing partner of Eisner and Lubin. He was a benefactor of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, a trustee of NYU's Institute of Fine Ar
 DUNNINGTON-Walter G. Jr. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of the New York Presbyterian Hospital and the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and esteemed Trustee, Walter G. 
 FARRELL-Robert A. Of Old Bridge, NJ on April 4, 1999. Devoted husband of Kathleen (nee Burke), loving and adored father of Kristen and Meghan, cherished son of the late John and Jane Farrell. A retired Government Bond Broker, his career included many years of service with Fundamental Broker
 GANZ-Irving. Of Yonkers, NY and Boynton Beach, FL, passed away April 4, 1999. He is survived by his children Robert (Linda), Karen Ganz (Jeff Harris), and two loving grandchildren, Jennifer Ganz (Jeff Durand) and Kevin Ganz. Donations may be made in memory of Irving Ganz to the Alzheimer's 
 GIBSON-Thomas M. Age 63, of Colts Neck, NJ, died April 4 at home. Mr. Gibson was a registered patent attorney and senior partner at Hedman, Gibson and Costigan, Avenue of the Americas, NYC. He is survived by his wife Judy; two sons, Timothy and Christopher; two daughters, Loretto Rizzo and 
 HALPERN-Sol. Of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, formerly of L.I., died March 30, 1999 at age 84. Devoted husband, father, grandfather, brother, companion and friend. He founded a successful law firm in Mineola, NY and was an avid boatsman. He lived life his way. We knew he cared and we'll all miss him.
 McGRATH-Albert Nicholson. On April 4th, 1999. Beloved son of the late Lillian Nicholson McGrath and John Francis McGrath, M.D. Beloved brother of Edward H., S.J., of Orissa, India, Robert W., M.D., of Georgetown, SC and the late Lillian Ryan and John F., Jr., M.D. Also survived by ten niece
 OLDS-Herbert Vincent. Formerly of Lynn, MA and Arlington, VA, died on April 3, 1999. He was 85 years old. Born December 19, 1913, he was the son of Herbert V. and Mary Emerson Olds. He attended the Loomis School in Windsor, CT and graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University in 1934. H
 PERRY-Richard S. Of Baldwin, NY, husband of the late Ruth Carolyn Richards, father of the late Judith Ann Perry, on Saturday, April 3, 1999. Mr. Perry was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School Class of 1937. A World War II Navy veteran, he was president of William Isel
 SCHEINER-Paula. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Eric Scheiner on the loss of his mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 WEINBERGER-Akiva Joseph. On behalf of the Presidents, Chairmen and Board of Directors of Just One Life, USA and Israel, we mourn the loss of Joseph Weinberger, father of our esteemed Chairman, Hillel Weinberger. May the family know of no more sorrow and be comforted amongst the mourners of 
 Ram Hardasmal Hingorani, a civil engineer and former member of the Norwalk Common Council, died on Friday at his home in Norwalk, Conn., after a brief illness, his wife, Kamla, said. He was 64. Mr. Hingorani played an important role in the construction and rehabilitation of some of 
 William J. De Lancy, who ran the Republic Steel Corporation during some of its toughest times, died from complications of Parkinson's disease Friday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio, his family said. He was 82. Born in Chicago in 1916, Mr. De Lancy earned both bachelor's 
 Ambroise Roux, a prominent and influential figure in the French industrial and financial worlds who was a key adviser to Georges Pompidou, France's President from 1969 to 1974, died on Sunday in his home in Montfort-l'Amaury in north central France. He was 77. The cause was a heart 
 Giulio Einaudi, a doctor, author and founder of the Italian publishing house he built into a European wellspring of fine literature, intellectual thought and political theory, died on Monday at his country house near Rome. He was 87. A scholarly man, Mr. Einaudi was one of his count
 Michael Manuel, a director and writer who worked for a decade at the Metropolitan Opera, first as the company's executive stage manager and then as the co-general director of the Met's national touring company, died on Monday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 70 and
 CHAN-Stephen. The President, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with deep sorrow the death of Stephen Chan, Chairman and Trustee Emeritus of the Hagop Kevorkian Fund. We extend our heartfelt symp
 DUNNINGTON-Walter G., Jr. The members of the Board of the Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy mourn the loss of a dear friend and faithful supporter, Walter G. Dunnington, Jr. We are saddened by his passing and extend our deepest sympathy to his bereaved wife, Pat, our devoted
 GELMAN-Milton. Beloved husband and devoted friend to Evelyn. Loving father of Philip and Florencia Gelman, and Melissa and Michael King. Dear brother of Beverly and Sandy Mayer, and Lynn and Michael Bell. Services Friday, April 9th, 10AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87 St. Contributions 
 HACKETT-John E. Suddenly, on Friday, April 2nd, 1999. John E. Hackett, beloved husband of Colette Lavoie. Born on May 15, 1943, Mr. Hackett was the son of Marielle Teryazos nee Gohier and of the late Guy Hackett. He was the father of Sophie, Guy and Alexandre whose mother is Lalage Hackett 
 HECHLER-Ira J. The Board, Staff and 350 member theatres of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/ New York mourn the loss of our Vice Chairman, Ira J. Hechler. An enthusiastic theatre-goer and generous arts patron, Ira was deeply committed to A.R.T./New York and New York City's not-for-profit t
 HEDIN-Gordon Webster. On December 5, 1998 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Frances. Devoted father of Anne Hedin Thompson and Mark Gordon Hedin. Loving grandfather of Hugh Gordon Thompson, Olivia Thompson and Beatrice Thompson. Memorial service April 8, 5PM, Brick Presbyterian Churc
 HOFFMAN-Joseph. Passed away April 4, 1999 in Hollywood, FL at the age of 96. Formerly of Great Neck, N.Y. He leaves his devoted wife of 64 years Ruth, son Richard of Hallandale, FL. and daughter Frances Swirsky. Papa Joe to Peter and Douglas Genzer and great granddaughter Rachel. He will be
 JOSEPHS-George. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a most cherished member of its extended family. George's love of his fellow man, the Jewish people and the state of Israel was both legendary and exemplary. Together with his beloved Miriam, his soul mate in life
 KATZ-Erich. The Cherry Lane Minyan deeply mourns the passing of Erich Katz and extend sincerest condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and to the children Eleanore, Henry an Daniel, and the entire family. We will certainly miss his guiding advice and presence at Cherry Lane. May the family be 
 KAWAMURA - Shigekuni. The New York University community mourns the loss of Shigekuni Kawamura, an esteemed alumnus, trustee and friend. Over many years and across many miles, he supported this University and advanced its goals, helped in making NYU a global institution, and furthered the in
 KEYSOR-Allan L. (Gus) of Setauket, New York, suddenly on April 2, 1999. Loving husband of Nancy. Dear father of Edward, Dwight and John. Allan served for twenty-six years in the United States Navy and Naval Reserves before retiring as a Captain in 1989. At the present, he was the Vice-Presi
 LANGDON-William Michael, 82, was recognized for his 40 years of exemplary service and commended for his unfailing devotion to CARE in his efforts to help the needy around the world. Died March 25, 1999. He served in the U.S. Army in the South Pacific during World War II from 1941-45. He ros
 MARSCHALK-H. Robert. Philip Morris Companies Inc, notes with sorrow the death on April 4, 1999, of retired Board Member, H. Robert Marschalk. Mr. Marschalk served as a Member of The Philip Morris Companies Inc, Board of Directors from 1966 until his retirement in 1986. He was named Director
 MULLY-George, suddenly and unexpectedly at home on Easter Monday, at the age of 73, much loved husband of Ann Mully. Loving stepfather of Max Born (Sue Saunders), Sebastian Born (Sue Thompson) and Georgina Born (Andrew Barry). Grandfather of Kip, Lily, Rosie, Theo and Clara. He will be grea
 WHITE-William J., 71, of New Canaan, Conn., died Monday, April 5, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, five children and eleven grandchildren.       
 Al Taylor, an artist whose quirky linear sculpture and drawings brought lyricism and charm to the austerities of Process Art, died on March 31 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Debbie T
 Arnold Francis Habig, who built a small Indiana woodworking shop into Kimball International Inc., died on March 29 at Memorial Hospital in Jasper, Ind., his birthplace and seat of the diversified billion-dollar company. He was 91. Growing up in Jasper as the third- oldest of 10 chil
 Lester A. Mount, a leading neurosurgeon associated with Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and New York Presbyterian Hospital, died March 28 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Bronxville. Dr. Mount was a teacher and practitioner. A na
 BOSTWICK-Allan. We mourn the loss of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Evelyn Maltman, President       
 CLEMENTS-Christopher A., 38. Of New York City. Died beautifully in the arms of his beloved partner, John Noonan of NYC on April 4, 1999 after a long illness. Adored son of Barbara Meredith of NYC and William Clements of Cheverly, MD. Cherished brother of Stephen Clements of Riverdale, MD. C
 HALL-Eben Clarke, 82. Formerly of Riverside, CT, died in Vero Beach, FL. on April 2. He leaves behind his wife, Jane Turhane Hall, two daughters, Susan Mygatt and Sarah Hansel, and seven grandchildren.       
 HECHLER-Ira J. Respected and admired Board Member of the Nassau County Museum of Art in Roslyn Harbor, L.I. Active champion and supporter of the arts. His presence and voice will be greatly missed by all his colleagues.       
 LIDZ-Harry H., April 5, 1999, age 86. Veteran of Abraham Lincoln International Brigade 1937. He will be missed by his brother, Arthur; sister-in-law, Shirley; niece, Sandy, and nephew, Franz.       
 MARKS (MARKOWITZ)-Robert. Of Stamford, CT. loving husband of Ricky Levine-Marks, died Saturday, April 3, of complications from Multiple Sclerosis. He is survived by two sons, Ross and Jonathan; his brother Jerry Markowitz; his sister Elayne Antis; two stepchildren, Carrie and Alex Levine; a
 McDONOUGH-Thomas W. Of New Canaan, CT on April 6, 1999. Beloved husband of Joan Marie McDonough. Loving father to Donough P. McDonough and Bridget S. Rudner. Adored grandfather of Tara, Lillian, Susanna, Quinn and Donough. Formerly a resident of Brooklyn, Garden City and Southold, NY. Forme
 McMAHON-Philip. The Soldiers', Sailors', Marines' and Airmen's Club are deeply saddened by the death of their esteemed colleague and Board Member, Philip McMahon, after a long illness. He was devoted to the SSMAC, and, in the 1980s, during the influx of women in our Military Services, was a
 POPKO-Stan. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Stan Popko. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 SELLERS-Brother John. Alvin Ailey Dance Theater Foundation mourns with profound sadness, the loss of Brother John Sellers. His unique sound was an inspiration to Alvin Ailey and thousands of fans who enjoyed his singing both along side the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and and as a sol
 SILBERSTEIN-Benjamin H. On April 6, 1999 of Syosset, LI. Beloved husband of Eileen, devoted father of Pamela and Jonathan, cherished father-in-law of Shari Silberstein and Bernard Sellem, dear brother of Dorothy Klein. He served in the U.S. Navy and was a veteran of WWII. He was a long time
 WEINBERGER-Akiva Joseph. We are saddened by the sudden loss of Joseph Weinberger, beloved husband of Gertrude, devoted father of Hillel and Mark and their wives, Elaine and Deborah, respected grandfather of Levi, Avi, Noam, Sarah and Ezra. A Learned Man. A Survivor. Mr. Weinberger's goodnes
 WHITE-William J., 71, of New Canaan, Conn., died Monday, April 5, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, five children and eleven grandchildren.       
 Red Norvo, one of jazz's early vibraphonists and a gifted band leader whose groups greatly influenced American music and backed singers like Mildred Bailey, Billie Holiday and Frank Sinatra, died on Tuesday at a convalescent home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Norvo helped i
 Sol Hoffman, a longtime labor leader in the Northeast, died on March 27 at a friend's home in Jersey City after suffering a heart attack. He was 67. Mr. Hoffman, who lived in Teaneck, N.J., was a vice president of Unite, the Union of Needle Trades, Industrial and Textile Employees, 
 Edward Tripp, who served as editor in chief at Yale University Press for 13 years, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Franklin, N.C. He was 79. Among Mr. Tripp's accomplishments at Yale was the conception of the acclaimed ''Encyclopedia of New York City,'' which was edited by Kenn
 H. Robert Marschalk, who rose from a salesman for the Vicks Chemical Company to president and later vice chairman of its successor, the Richardson-Merrell Drug Company, died Sunday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 83 and had prostate cancer, said a spokesman for Philip Morris, where Mr. Mars
 John M. Hartwell, an investment counselor and mutual fund manager, died April 2 in New York City, his wife, Sheila, said. He was 83. Until his retirement in 1996, Mr. Hartwell was the president of his own firm, J. M. Hartwell & Company, which managed private accounts and university 
 BERGER-Graenum. The Graenum Berger Bronx Jewish Federation Service Center expresses its profound sorrow upon the passing of Graenum Berger, one of our founders. He returned his soul to his Maker after more than fifty years of distinguished and dedicated labor of love for the Jewish communit
 BOSTWICK-Allan M. It is with sadness that the many friends and family of Allan Bostwick mourn his passing on April 7. Funeral services at 9:30 AM, Friday, April 9, 1999, at Temple Sinai, 131 Washington Ave., Lawrence, LI. Contributions to Temple Sinai.       
 BUSH-George E. Sr. On April 7, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Mary A. (nee Conway). Loving father of Dr. George E. Jr., Virginia M. Reidy and the late Dr. John S. Grandfather of seven and greatgrandfather of seven. In 1981 Mr. Bush married Margaret Mulhill who predeceased him. Mr. Bush, 
 CLARK-James. Of Palm Beach died on April 7, 1999. He is survived by his wife Irma and his children Susan and Harlan Ellis, Terry and David Brooks and Shelly Clark. Grandfather of Robert, Carl, Julia, victoria, Andrew and Elizabeth and sister Hilda Gertler. Service Sunday 10AM at Plaza Memor
 GELMAN-Milton. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife, Evelyn, our Trustee, and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreibe
 HOARE-George P. Jr. Esq. Of Short Hills, N.J. on Tuesday, April 6, 1999. Husband of Marie O'Reilly Hoare. Father of Ms. Kathleen H. Thompson, George P. Hoare, III, Ms. Marie Therese Kennedy and Ms. Anne Nassar. Son of Aurora R. Hoare. Brother of Dr. Raymond Hoare, Dr. Anne Koons and Ms. Aur
 KAWAMURA-Shigekuni. It is with deep sorrow that we note the passing of our dear friend, Shigekuni Kawamura. He was a faithful supporter of the Institute, on whose Board of Trustees he served for ten years. He will be remembered for his belief in the value of international exchange and for h
 LYONS-Edward P., K.M., of John's Island, Vero Beach, FL, and Greenwich, CT. Retired Vice Chairman of the Olin Corporation, passed away on Thursday, April 8, at his home. He is survived by his wife, Margaret Whyte Lyons, and five children.       
 MARX-Leonard J. April 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth Kahn Marx, dear father of Jane Moss, cherished grandfather of Jon and Maggie, loving brother of Josephine Luria. Funeral service Friday April 9, 1999, 11AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Interment will follow at Easton
 MODZELEWSKI - Stella. The Leadership of Continuum Health Partners, Inc. and its HospitalsBeth Israel Medical Center, St Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and Long Island College Hospitalnote with sadness the passing of Stella Modzelewski, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Dona
 SILBER-Harry D. Age 81. Of Tamarac, FL and Kew Garden Hills, Queens. Died April 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Lucille. Loving father of Michelle Cohen, Gail and Sheldon Silber. Cherished grandfather of Michael and Deborah Cohen. Mr. Silber was born in Brooklyn where he attended Yeshiva Chaim 
 STEIN-Bernard on April 8, 1999 of Hartsdale, NY. Beloved father of Barbara and Zachary, bestfriend and loving companion of Ellen Koch, cherished father-in-law of Gene Tullio and Vicky Stein, devoted grandfather of Marcie, Lizzie, Randi, Peter and Justin. He will be greatly missed by his fri
 TERRY-Randy. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Randy Terry on April 7th. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Friday, April 9th. 12:15pm at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 
 WEISER-Moses. The Board of Directors of Congregation Chasam Sopher express their deep sorrow over the loss of their President, Moses Weiser, who was the soul of the shul. A beloved, scholarly man who promised to devote his life to the religious needs of his people, if he survived the Holoca
 ABU-HAKIMA-Ahmad Mustafa. Professor, scholar, historian and world authority on Eastern Arabia, born August 28, 1923, in Abbasiyya, Palestine, died April 9, 1998, in Ottawa, Canada. A truly contented man, wherever he traversed he brought optimism and love to the lives of many, many people ar
 Robert Myhrum, an Emmy-nominated director who worked in children's television, died last Friday while vacationing on his boat in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 72 and had homes in Manhattan and Peru, Vt. The cause was a heart attack, his son Chris said. Born in Chicago, Mr. Myhrum
 Sam Shaw, a film producer and photojournalist famous for his photographs of Marilyn Monroe standing over a subway grate with her skirt billowing, died on Monday at a hospital in Westwood, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Tappan, N.Y. Born and reared on New York's Lower East Side, Mr. Sha
 Bob Peck, who appeared in the film ''Jurassic Park'' as well as on stage and television in Britain, died on Sunday in London. He was 53 and had cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Peck, who lived in London, was much better known in Britain than in the United States, w
 Dr. Donald Elvin Savage, a paleontologist who tracked the evolution of the earliest anthropoid apes, died on  Monday at a hospice in Rossmoor, Calif. He was 81 and had recently moved there from his home in nearby Clayton. Much of his work focused on linking mammalian fossils to spec
 Emmett Colvin, a criminal defense lawyer from Texas, died on April 2 at his home in Fairfax, Va. He was 80 and had retired to Virginia from Dallas three years ago. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Colvin was among the lawyers who represented Jack Ruby in a
 Howard S. Kessler, a Manhattan veterinarian and former president of the board of the Bide-a-Wee Association, died on Thursday at the Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y. He was 56. The cause was cancer, said his mother, Gail Kessler of Atlantic City. Dr. Kessler, who li
 Ira J. Hechler, a financier and private investor known for friendly corporate buyouts in the 1980's, when hostile takeovers dominated the corporate landscape, died last Sunday at New York Hospital of complications resulting from a heart attack, a family representative said. He was 80.      
 BERGER-Graenum. The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourns the passing of Graenum Berger, a dynamic humanitarian who made a significant contribution to the Jewish communal world. As a determined advocate for Ethiopian Jewry, he founded the American Association for Ethiopi
 GREGORY-Konstantin. Of Stamford, CT (formerly Thousand Oaks, CA) on April 8. Beloved husband of Marcelle, adoring father of Cynthia and proud grandfather of Lloyd. Devoted brother of George, Mary, Michael and Theodore. Requiem Saturday, April 10 at St. Michael the Archangel, Greenwich, at 1
 KATZ-Charles R. Passed away on April 8, in Tamarac, FL. Beloved husband of Edythe, loving father of Barbara and Martin Rosen, Jack and Elena Katz, Janet and Richard Greenspan. Step-father of Bonnie Austin, Ann Green and Jodi and Dan Murphy. Devoted grandfather of Larry and Laura, Deborah, D
 LYONS-Edward P. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Edward P. Lyons, devoted husband of alumna Margaret Whyte Lyons and member of the Board of Trustees for almost 20 years. Edward Lyons was passionate about the mission of this College. His wise counsel whi
 MALINA-Arthur. On April 9, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Jane & Victor Levinson and Richard and Wendy Malina. Cherished grandfather of Nick Levinson and Julie Moll, Lynn Levinson & Roderick Kreisberg, Maggie Malina, Tom Levinson, Cathy Malina, Emily Malina and greatgrandfa
 MARX-Leonard J. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Leonard Marx. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 SLAVIN-Jeffrey. The Shelter Rock Jewish Center of Roslyn, New York expresses its profound sorrow on the untimely and tragic death of Jeffrey, beloved son of Barry and Goldie. He was a source of joy to his parents and family. May God comfort them. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Stanley Shanies, Pres
 Sullivan-Hon. Daniel J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Hon. Daniel J. Sullivan, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, Pres. Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 Arthur M. Hettich, a retired senior executive for The New York Times Company's magazine group and a former president of Family Circle magazine, disappeared on Monday while swimming off Grand Turk Island in Turks and Caicos and is presumed drowned, according to his family. He was 73.        
 Brother John Sellers, a singer known for his raw and earthy rendition of blues, jazz and gospel music, died on March 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. Mr. Sellers, who suffered from diabetes and high blood pressure, died in his sleep, said a spokeswoman for the Alvin Ailey Ame
 Dante C. Fabiani, retired president of the Crane Company, a plumbing fixtures maker, died March 20 at Waterbury Hospital in Waterbury, Conn., after a heart attack, according to his daughter, Kathryn Bartholomew. He was 81 and lived in Southbury, Conn. Mr. Fabiani grew up in Waterbur
 BENIN-Albert. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Albert Benin, a devoted friend of the Jewish communities of New York, Israel and France. By creating scholarship funds for the support of scientific study, he enabled students he
 CLARK-James. Of Palm Beach died on April 7, 1999. He is survived by his wife Irma and his children Susan and Harlan Ellis, Terry and David Brooks and Shelley Clark. Grandfather of Robert, Paul, Julie, Victoria, Andrew and Elizabeth and sister Hilda Gertler. Service Sunday, 10 AM, at Plaza M
 COHEN-Sidney. Age 82. Died peacefully at home on April 9 after a short illness. A devoted husband and lover, ardent musician, scientist and friend, who gave more than he received and who embodied the true essence of an intelligent, progressive and compassionate human being. He is the belove
 FLEAGLE-Edward., 90, a resident of Glen Cove since 1977, died Wednesday, April 7, 1999, at his home. Born in Yonkers, NY, on December 13, 1908, he was the son of Edward E. Fleagle, Sr., and Elizabeth (Bahret) Fleagle. Fleagle was a graduate of Yonkers High School, Pratt Institute School of 
 GREGORY-Konstantin. Of Stamford, CT (formerly Thousand Oaks, CA) on April 8. Beloved husband of Marcelle, adoring father of Cynthia and proud grandfather of Lloyd. Devoted brother of George, Mary, Michael and Theodore. Requiem Saturday, April 10 at St. Michael the Archangel, Greenwich, at 1
 HALL-Philip Wells, Jr.. 99 years of Essex, CT. Former native of Cranford, NJ where he lived for 86 years. Widower of Catherine (Kepner) Hall. Survived by a son Dr. Philip Wells Hall, III of Cleveland Heights, OH; one daughter Mrs. John Stirling of Cranford, NJ; one sister Mrs. Pauline Dicki
 HUDES-Bernard. Died on April 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Bessie. Loving father of Matthew and Ellen, and their spouses Qui and Michael. Proud grandfather of Colette, Simon, Adam and Daniel. Survived by dear brother Ira, his wife Sylvia, and well loved nieces and nephews.       
 JACOBSON-Robert N.. On April 9, 1999, age 73, at his home in Harrison, NY. He was born to Daniel and Selma Jacobson on April 16, 1925, in the Bronx, NY. He served in the US Navy during WW II. Cornell University graduate with a BA in 1949, and MBA in 1950. On October 19, 1969, he married Sir
 KESSLER-Dr. Howard S.., DVD, Director of the New York Veterinary Hospital on 74th St. and Lexington Ave. died on April 8, 1999. The cause of death was cancer. Dr. Kessler was one of the most respected veterinarians in the United States with a practice that included some of New York's most p
 LYONS-Edward P.. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Edward P. Lyons, devoted husband of alumna Margaret Whyte Lyons and member of the Board of Trustees for almost 20 years. Edward Lyons was passionate about the mission of this College. His wise counsel wh
 MALINA-Arthur. On April 9, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Jane & Victor Levinson and Richard and Wendy Malina. Cherished grandfather of Nick Levinson and Julie Moll, Lynn Levinson & Roderick Kreisberg, Maggie Malina, Tom Levinson, Cathy Malina, Emily Malina and greatgrandfa
 OLBE-Nathan. Age 97, of Jackson Heights, New York, passed away peacefully on April 4, 1999, in a nursing home in Largo, Maryland. His wife, Elfriede, died in 1974. His first marriage to Fernande Briefel ended in divorce. Beloved father of Ellen Tillier, and stepdaughter, Ellen Kohlberg, ado
 REYNOLDS-Eugene P. Sr.. Of the town of Newburgh, NY. A mailer machinist for The New York Times, Edison, NJ. Resident of Newburgh since 1972 and former resident of Astoria, Queens. Died April 1, 1999, at home. He was 61. The son of John Sr. and Anna Duffy Reynolds, he was born March 16, 1938
 SCHEIN-Eliot DeY. Of South Salem, NY. On April 2, 1999 after a courageous struggle, at age 58. President of Schein/Blattstein Advertising, professor at Pace University, author, columnist, speaker, past president of NY Direct Marketing Club and a leading voice in the industry. Eliot was a de
 STERN-Sidney. NACOEJ (The North American Conference on Ethiopian Jewry) mourns the loss of an exceptional Board member, voluteer and friend. We share the grief of his beloved family, Barbara, Marian, Paula and Remy. Richard E. Giesberg, President Middie Giesberg, Chair       
 Peter Shaw Thacher, a former State Department official and a retired deputy executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, died on April 3 at a nursing home in Mystic, Conn. He was 72 and lived in Stonington Borough. The cause of death was a brain tumor, said his wife
 Lieut. Col. Leofric Boyle, a retired British Army officer who played an important role in saving from extinction the Arabian oryx, a type of antelope, died on March 21. He was 100. His death was reported on April 2 by The Times of London, which did not say where he died or where he 
 Daniel J. Sullivan, who was a judge in the Bronx for 20 years, died on Thursday at North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 72 and lived in Seaford, N.Y. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, his son David said yesterday. J
 BOLOGNA-Louis. April 10, 1999. Loving father of Lewis Barton and his wife Barbara. Devoted grandfather of Glenn and Gregory, and great-grandfather of Gregory Di Lewis. His music will remain in our hearts forever. Mass of Christian Burial, Tuesday, April 13, 9:30 AM, at St. Simon and Jude Ch
 DUNN-James L. On April 10, 1999. Loving husband of Mary (nee Spillane). Loving father of Patricia, Thomas, Kathleen and Kevin. Loving brother of Matthew, and brother-in-law of Sheila. Devoted grandfather of Christopher, Timothy, Kate, Laura, Michael and his dog Woodrow. Ex-P.O.W. and Bronze
 GREGORY-Konstantin. Of Stamford, CT (formerly Thousand Oaks, CA) on April 8. Beloved husband of Marcelle, adoring father of Cynthia and proud grandfather of Lloyd. Devoted brother of George, Mary, Michael and Theodore. Requiem Saturday, April 10 at St. Michael the Archangel, Greenwich, at 1
 HETTICH-Arthur M. Memorial service will be held at 11 AM, Saturday, May 8, at Shore Acres Point Corporation, 504 The Parkway, Mamaroneck, NY. Contributions may be made in his memory to Save the Sound, Inc, 185 Magee Ave, Stamford, CT 06902.       
 LEHRER-Martin M. Age 82, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of West Orange, NJ. Passed away on April 10, 1999. Dearest and cherished husband of Harriette. Mentor, friend and loving father of sons Paul and Steven. Adored father-inlaw of Marjorie and Nancy. Much loved grandfather of Matthew, Andrew,
 LLOYD-William E. On April 10, 1999, at age 74. Adored husband of Muriel. Beloved father of Jacqueline, Stephen, Nancy and Christopher. Loving grandfather of Scott, Christian and Peter Larsen, Abigail Lloyd, Travis, Kyle and Courtney Rose Pena. Cherished stepfather of Karen and Geoffrey. Bil
 McBRIDE-Rodney Lester. On April 10, 1999, at Greenwich, CT, of esophageal cancer. Loving husband of Judy Winslow. Father of Douglas of Scottsdale, AZ, and Cheryl of Denver, CO. Brother of Laurence of Colorado Springs and Judy of Denver, CO. Born in Denver, CO, on September 1, 1941. Graduate
 SCHWARTZ-Irving. On April 9, 1999. Husband of Alice Lee Kuhn Schwartz. Father of Barry and Kay Schwartz. Grandfather of Aaron, Adam, Chad and Ryan. Brother of Norma. Brother-in-law of Harriet Sterling, Bernard and Jae Jacovitz. Uncle of Roni, Meyer and Elyse Liberman, Billie Oxenberg, Richa
 Raul Cardinal Silva Henriquez, who led Roman Catholicism in Chile for more than two decades, championing human rights and sharply criticizing Gen. Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship, died on Friday in a home for retired priests in Santiago, Chile. He was 91. The cause was a he
 Jerold C. Hoffberger, who owned the Baltimore Orioles when they won five American League pennants and two World Series titles in the 1960's and 1970's, died last Friday at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore after collapsing during a business meeting. He had celebrated his 80th birthday two days ea
 Justo Rodriguez Santos, a Cuban poet who became disenchanted with Fidel Castro in the 1960's, exiled himself from his native land and became an advertising executive in the United States, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 83. Dr. Rodrigue
 Proctor Patterson Jones, an author, photographer, publisher and lawyer who was a presence in San Francisco for over four decades, died there on April 2 at his home in the Pacific Heights section of the city. He was 83. Mr. Jones began his career writing legal texts. But he turned pr
 Rabbi Levi Ben Levy, the chief rabbi of the Israelite Board of Rabbis for the New York metropolitan area and the Western Hemisphere, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in the Queens Village section of Queens. The cause was leukemia, said h
 Boxcar Willie, a country singer and songwriter who fashioned himself as a hobo, died on Monday at his home in Branson, Mo. He was 67. The cause was leukemia, his family said. With an image built through performances and television commercials, Boxcar Willie turned a lifelong
 James D. McCawley, an internationally renowned linguist who sought wherever possible to combine in his work his three consuming passions -- language, music and ethnic food -- died on Saturday after collapsing on the campus of the University of Chicago, where he had taught for more than thre
 Thornton A. Wilson, a former chairman and chief executive of the Boeing Company, died on Saturday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 78. Mr. Wilson died in his sleep and was found by members of his family, said Peter B. Conte, a spokesman for Boeing. The cause of death remai
 Bill Wendell, a radio and television announcer whose crisp authoritative voice provided an ironic foil to entertainers from Ernie Kovacs to David Letterman, died yesterday at a hospice in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 75. The cause of death was complications from cancer, said one of his d
 Hyman R. Faine, a former executive of a union that represents performing artists, died last Thursday at a hospice in Los Angeles. He was 88, and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Tom Tugend, a friend. Mr. Faine, who spent much of his care
 Jack H. McDonald, a former chairman and chief executive of the Imperial Corporation of America, a savings and loan company that long after his retirement fell victim to the nation's savings and loan crisis, died March 19 at Sharps Memorial Hospital in San Diego from complications of Parkins
 James Victor Blevins, who liked to be known as the Popcorn King after he began to market his own version of the snack to movie and grocery chains in the 1940's, died on Monday at his home in Nashville. He was 87. Mr. Blevins was originally from Birmingham, Ala., and worked for the F
 Robert V. Cox, a Chambersburg, Pa., newspaper reporter who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1967 for writing about the hunt for a sniper, died on Monday at a health care center in Chambersburg. He was 72 years old. The cause was complications from heart bypass surgery, said Jim Hook, a repor
 Anthony Newley, the versatile British entertainer who achieved international stardom in 1961 with the musical ''Stop the World -- I Want to Get Off,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Jensen Beach, Fla. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said his former wife, Dareth Newley Dunn.      
 Nicola Trussardi, who diversified and expanded his family's small-town glove business into a multimillion-dollar fashion house, died on Wednesday in Milan of injuries suffered in an automobile accident. He was 56. Mr. Trussardi died after undergoing brain surgery for injuries he rec
 Edmund M. Braun, a psychiatrist and labor advocate who worked to obtain better health care for the poor and Social Security coverage for physicians, died April 10 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his son Carl said. As an organizer and spokes
 Dr. Robert G. Sachs, a theoretical physicist who once served as director of the Argonne National Laboratory near Chicago, died on Wednesday at the University of Chicago Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Chicago. The cause was complications from surgery, the university said.    
 S. Sidney Kahn, a venture capitalist and patron of the arts, died in Osaka, Japan, last Sunday while on a tour with the International Council of the Museum of Modern Art, an art study group. He was 62 and lived in New York and Locust Valley, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, his wi
 Tom Patten, a British marine scientist and offshore engineer who played a key role in unlocking the gas and oil deposits beneath the North Sea, died on April 10 at a hospital in Edinburgh, where he lived. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. In the early 1960's,
 Alexander (Skip) Spence, a pivotal figure in psychedelic San Francisco rock, died Friday at Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif., where he had lived. The cause was advanced lung cancer, said his son Omar. He was 52 years old. Mr. Spence was a founding member of both Jefferson Ai
 Ben S. Stephansky, President John F. Kennedy's Ambassador to Bolivia at a complex time in its history, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 85. Dr. Stephansky, whose Ph.D. was in economics from the University of Wisconsin, was labor attache at the United States Embassy
 Alexander (Skip) Spence, a pivotal figure in psychedelic San Francisco rock, died on Friday at Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif., where he lived. The cause was lung cancer, said his son Omar. He was 52. Mr. Spence was a founding member of Jefferson Airplane and Moby Grape. As
 David B. McCall and Joan Mills McCall, who excelled separately in the worlds of advertising, philanthropy and the arts and together as fiercely dedicated advocates for the world's displaced people, died in a car accident Sunday while on an aid mission in Albania. Mr. McCall was 71. 
 BERKOWITZ-Michael. The physicians, nurses and staff of The Cancer Center of Beth Israel and St. Luke's - Roosevelt acknowledge with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Michael Berkowitz, who touched countless lives through his generous support and, most importantly, 
 GASSMAN-Mildred. The partners and employees of Gassman, Rebhun and Co., P.C. extend our deepest sympathy to Robert S. Gassman, one of our founding partners, on the passing of his mother on April 17, 1999. We extend our deepest to the bereaved family.       
 GERSTENFELD-Saul. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the untimely passing on March 31st, 1999 of its special friend and generous supporter, Saul Wayne Gerstenfeld. A devoted Jew and loyal American, Saul dedicated his life to helping others and we will miss him greatly. A memorial s
 HAUBEN-Maxwell M. Devoted and adoring husband for 64 years of Betty. Loving Dad of Kenneth and Barbara Stein and Richard and Ellen Hauben. Darling grandfather of Elissa and Ross Patterson, Edward and Elisabeth Wolfe, Erica and Jakub Karras and Jessica Hauben. He is survived by one brother, 
 KAHN-Sidney. The World Policy Institute, its Board of Advisors, its Senior Fellows, and its staff, and the New School University, note with great sadness the passing of Sidney Kahn. He was a devoted friend of the World Policy Institute, serving as a Trustee of the Institute from 1982 to 199
 KARTEN-Isidore. Beloved husband of Julia, devoted father of Berne Bookhamer, Marcia Toledano & Harry. Loving grandfather of Talya, Keren, Michal, Bryant, Devon, Jonathen and Sharone. Service Wednesday, 10:00AM, at Park East Synagogue, 163 East 69th St. For information, Plaza Memorial Chapel
 KATZ-Sidney. 92. On April 19. Services Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY today, 11am. His loving sons, Robert, Howard and Alan.       
 KOOP-Robert L. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Staff and all the employees of the Trump Pavilion for Nursing and Rehabilitation at the Jamaica Hospital Medical Center note with profound sorrow the passing of our respected First Vice President of the Board of Directors, Rober
 Lendman-William M. age 72, died on Friday April 16, 1999. He began a Wall Street career as an unpaid trainee to Phil Carret, President of Pioneer Fund. He grew to become President and CEO of the Wall Street firm Blair & Company. Upon his retirement from Blair he became an independent Financ
 LIEBERMAN-Ludwig. On April 19, 1999. Survived by his wife, sisterin-law, son and daughter-in-law. Services Wednesday, 10 AM, at ''Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapels'', 114-03 Queens Blvd (76 Rd) Forest Hills, N.Y.       
 MAGIDOR-Sarah. We deeply mourn the passing of Sarah Magidor, the mother of Professor Menachem Magidor, President of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. We extend our deepest condolences to Professor Magidor and his family. American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President 
 MANCUSO-Benedetto, J. of New Hyde Park, NY in his eighty-first year on April 19, 1999. Loving father of Margherita Holler, Christina Lyon, Alfred and Regina, cherished grandfather of Joey, Eric and Angelina, dear brother of Connie Contiguglia, proud World War II combat photographer, recipie
 MANEKI-Arthur. Age 59. Of NYC. Died April 10 in New York University Hospital. He was a New York State government bank examiner. Survived by brother Raymond and sister Marjorie Determan, both of Honolulu.       
 MARTIN-Marcus (Marty) April 19, 1999. A passion for his family, friends and love of life was the gift he shared each day. Our dear ''papa'' will be missed by his adoring family; wife Ruth, children Dianne and Jonathan, son and daughterin-law Philip and Cheryl, grandchildren Jared, Caroline,
 REISS-George. Died suddenly at the age of 78 on Saturday, April 17th, 1999. Loving father of Johnny. Dearest life's partner of Rena. Devoted brother-in-law of Gordon and of Louise. Beloved husband of the late Helga and brother of the late Eric. Born in Vienna, he came to the U.S. in 1939. H
 SHELOV-Sidney M. The Board of Trustees, alumni/ae and faculty of Bard College mourn the passing of Sidney M. Shelov, trustee, alumnus, and long-time friend of the College. His lasting contributions to Bard include his design of Tewksbury Hall on the Bard College campus. We extend our sincer
 Siegel-Paul. Was born June 7, 1912, in Brooklyn, New York and died April 18, 1999 in Boca Raton Florida, surrounded by friends and family. He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Mae Siegel; his son and daughter-in-law, Mr. S. Jay and Joan Siegel; his daughter, Dr. Irene S. Kessler; his grandchild
 WHITE-David Lee. On April 17, 1999. Of White Plains, New York, formerly of Rye. Beloved husband of Janet (Murch). Devoted father of Kristen M., Lynne J. and the late David L., Jr. Dear brother of Richard B. Also survived by a nephew, Duane S. Biasi, and several nieces. Memorial services wil
 Raghubir Singh, who photographed the pulsating expanse of India in all its varied shades and hues, died on Sunday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 58. He died after collapsing, apparently from a heart attack, said his companion, Gwen Darien. A retrospective exhibition of
 Walter William Straley, who, as an American Telephone and Telegraph vice president for public relations in New York City, was a member of the city's Board of Education in the late 1960's, died in Seattle on Wednesday. Mr. Straley, who was 86, had moved to Seattle with his wife in 1976 and w
 Charlie Whittingham, the Hall of Fame horse trainer and the dean of racing on the West Coast for most of the last half-century, died yesterday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 86. Whittingham had leukemia. An ambulance took him to the hospital yesterday from his home in Sierra Madre, his 
 CHURCH-Edwin, MD. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society express deep sorrow at the loss of an extraordinary colleague and 1964 graduate. Under circumstances, none would choose, Dr. Church modeled resolve and valor in his eleven year confrontation with ALS. During th
 HECHLER-Ira J. The Board of Directors, staff and friends of the Hudson Guild note, with deep sorrow, the passing of our generous and devoted friend. Mr. Hechler's commitment to the mission of the Hudson Guild and community empowerment will continue to inspire us long after his passing. He w
 KARTEN-Isidore. Beloved husband of Julia, devoted father of Berne Bookhamer, Marcia Toledano & Harry. Loving grandfather of Talya, Keren, Michal, Bryant, Devon, Jonathen and Sharone. Service Wednesday, 10:00AM, at Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67th St. For information, Plaza Memorial Chapel
 MARCUS-Martin (Marty). April 19, 1999. A passion for his family, friends and love of life was the gift he shared each day. Our dear ''papa'' will be missed by his adoring family; wife Ruth, children Dianne and Jonathan, son and daughterin-law Philip and Cheryl, grandchildren Jared, Caroline
 McCALL-Dave and Penny. The Board, staff and clients of STRIVE salute our partner, Dave McCall and his wife Penny. They died giving to others as they did to our organization from the time of its founding. We will try to live up to their ideals and will remember them always. MCCALL-Da
 REBHUN-William C., DVM. Services were Saturday, March 27, 1999, in Raymertown, NY, for William C. Rebhun, DVM. The professor of internal medicine and ophthalmology at Cornell University's College of Veterinary Medicine died March 24, in Ithaca, NY, at 51 years of age. He was a graduate of C
 REGA-John A., Colonel, U.S. Army, Retired. Of Old Tappan, New Jersey, formerly of Silver Spring, MD, and Huntsville, Alabama, on April 2, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Mary G. (nee Palombo). Cherished father of Mary L. Zaks (Arthur), Judith D. D'Ambrosio (Anthony) & Jane L. Rega. Loving
 ROSS-George. March 1, Palm Beach, FL. Survived by wife, Bette Flamm Ross, and children, John Ross and Susan Gardner Brooks. His career as a producer, publicist and writer included a stint on the NY World-Telegram, a 1944 play, ''Sophie'', WW II USO shows, and as a publicist for many major B
 ROSS-Joshua. Dr. Joshua Felix Ross died peacefully in his sleep on April 20 at home in Boca Raton, FL. Born in NYC in 1917, he was the beloved husband of Grayce; brother of Raymond; father of Mark, David and Robert; father-inlaw to Roni, Margaret and Donna, and grandfather to Lindsay, Emily
 SHELOV-Sidney M. The Board and staff of the Salvadori Center mourn the passing of their longterm Board member, Sidney M. Shelov. His sage counsel, expertise and warm friendship will be sorely missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family. Dr. Charles H. Thornton, President Dr. L
 SMITH-George ''Geo''. December 19th, 1945-April 14, 1999. Artist. Activist. Powerful chronicler of the African diaspora experience and imagination. Survived by his mother, Mrs. Florence Smith, his sister, Dottie Thompson, brother, David Smith, nieces, nephews, grand-niece and grand-nephews,
 SONNINO-Dino. Died in New York City on April 17th, 1999, at the age of 86. Dearly and devotedly loved by his wife Eva and son Edward who survive him, brother of Saverio, Giorgio and Mario, son of Leo and Eloisa, he was born in Rome, Italy, on November 8, 1912, graduated from the University 
 STERN-Philipp K. On April 19, 1999 at his home in Lakehurst, NJ. Beloved husband of Sylvia, loving father of Erica Stern of Lakewood, NJ, Leda Walker of Morris, New York, and Sheera Stern of Metuchen, NJ, adoring grandfather of Jeffrey vom Saal, Emily Marvel, Daniel vom Saal and Laura Milan
 SUTTER-Meyer. 2/1/14-4/21/97. Dear father, his love and humor are missed every day. Larry and Bett       
 Wenceslao Moreno, who started his career as an unsuccessful bullfighter in Spain and then became Senor Wences, a gifted ventriloquist who was able to transform his thumb and forefinger into a convincing dummy that endeared itself to millions of American television viewers in the 1950's and 
 Willi Stoph, a two-time Prime Minister of East Germany, who reluctantly helped reconcile the two Germanys and held office until days before the Berlin wall fell in 1989, died on April 13 in Berlin. He was 84. His death was reported in Berlin on Monday by the Party of Democratic Soci
 Charles (Buddy) Rogers, the handsome leading man and band leader who starred in ''Wings'' (1927), the first film to win an Academy Award, and who later married Mary Pickford, ''America's Sweetheart,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Mr. Rogers was 94. Six feet
 BENDINER-Bertram. On April 21st, 1999 in his 87th year. Beloved husband for 58 years of Ruth (nee Marcus), father of Gareth and Kenneth, brother of Robert and Elmer, grandfather of Ezra, Zachary, and Claire. Esteemed labor consultant UAW, great fisherman, and author. We will miss his whimsi
 BRUCKMANN-Donald J. January 4, 1929-April 21, 1999. A resident of New York, N.Y., and Easthampton NY. Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Animal Medical Center. Survived by his wife of 42 years, the former Polly Thudium, three nephews, William, Bruce and Kurt Bruckmann, and two nieces
 GAVIN-J. Gregory. April 20, 1999. Beloved husband of Cathy, loving father of Grreer, Ashley, Regis, Justin, and Greg. Cherished grandfather of William, Nicholas and Tripp. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Friday, April 23, 2-5 and 79PM. Mass of Christian Bu
 GRAHAM-Col. Lloyd R., U.S. Army retired, 77, on Wednesday, April 21, 1999 of Dataw Island, SC. Colonel Graham served in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers during W.W. II. He was most recently employed by Moran Towing Corp of NYC where he was Vice President of Sales. He is survived by wife Ann
 GROSSMAN - William. Officers and Directors of the Clothing Mfrs. Ass'n. of the USA mourn the loss of William Grossman, retired president of Grossman Clothing Co. A drama student, Bill switched from opening lines to line openings, winning respect and esteem for his wit and wisdom and as a st
 LORD-Jere W. Jr, M.D. On April 20, 1999 of Bedford, New York. Vascular Surgeon. A pioneer of heart surgery. A Professor of Clinical Medicine at University Hospital. Graduate of Gilman School, Princeton University 1932 & Johns Hopkins Medical School 1937. Member of The American College of Su
 MACNAB-John Brown. Age 77. From 1955 to 1992 beloved pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in the City of New York, died Tuesday, April 20 in Rehoboth, DE. Mourned by his wife Mary, daughters Jean, Mary Dee and Nancy, grandchildren, family and the congregation. A Memorial Service will be 
 MANDELL-Dennis Gary. I love you so, we will always be together. ''The Mandell Brothers'' we are the champions of the world. No one can overcome us, we are each other's backbone. You will live forever. Don't ever let go. Mandell Mandell by Arnold MANDELL-Dennis. The partners, associa
 NORDLINGER-Alan. 87. Died Sunday, April 18, 1999. Leaves behind his wife, Annetta, and her family; his children, Steve, Joan and James; their spouses, Carol, Steve and Michelle; his grandchildren, Alejandro, Jacob and Samuel; and a niece, Yvonne, and her husband, Charles Cannon. Respected a
 ROSEN-Harold J. Passed away April 21, 1999. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Lawrence, L.I. Loving husband of Jeanette to whom he was married fifty years. Adored father of Sheldon (Hope) Rosen and Vicki Bloom. Cherished grandfather of Ashleigh Bloom. Services on Sunday, April 25, 1999, at 1
 ROSENBLATT - Milton. (Milton Rose), of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Elmont, NY. Passed away April 18, 1999. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Babette. Loving father of Richard Ross and Kenneth Rosenblatt. Wonderful father-in-law of Renda and Betty. Cherished grandfather of Lorin, 
 SERGEEV-Michael. On April 22, 1999, of cancer. Despite multiple personal catastophes, he never lost his dreams of America.       
 SHAMSI-Haider H., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Sloane Hospital for Women, Columbia-Presbyterian Center, mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dr. Haider Shamsi. During the years of his education in Pakistan, Kenya and England, he was elected to Fellowship of the Royal College of 
 STEBE-Peter F., of Flushing, NY, on April 21, 1999. Professor of Mathematics at the City College of New York. His wit, humor, love and friendship will be remembered always by his family and life-long friends. Son of John and Mary (nee Byrne); brother of Joan and Nicholas. Husband of Joan (n
 Ralph J. Perk, the hard-luck Mayor of Cleveland whose misfortunes included accidentally setting his own hair on fire at a ceremonial appearance, died on Wednesday at the Cleveland Clinic Hospice unit of the Corinthian Skilled Nursing Center in Westlake, Ohio. He was 85. Mr. Perk, a 
 Alexander Alexay, a pianist who coached and accompanied opera singers and recitalists, and who worked for many years with the composer Sigmund Romberg, died on Tuesday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 97. Mr. Alexay was born in Ottawa in 1901. By the time he was 15, he was earni
 Harold E. Samuel, a former music librarian and professor at the Yale University School of Music, died after a long illness on Tuesday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 75. He died of congestive heart failure, said his son Hector. Though Mr. Samuel was a well-regarded profe
 Munir Ahmad Khan, an administrator of Pakistan's nuclear energy programs when Pakistan was developing a nuclear weapon, died on Thursday in Vienna of complications after heart surgery. He was 72. Mr. Khan was not a scientist but frequently spoke for Pakistan's civilian and military 
 Sir Laurence Kirwan, an archeologist and the former director of the British Royal Geographical Society, and a man for whom harsh and forbidding deserts, mountaintops and polar ice caps were irresistible attractions, died April 16 in a hospice in London. He was 91. Sir Laurence was n
 Thomas H. Davis, the founder of Piedmont Aviation, which grew to employ more than 20,000 people before it was acquired by USAir Group, died on Thursday at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 81 and lived in Winston-Salem. Mr. Davis was known for walking through his company's re
 Judge Bernard Newman of the United States Court of International Trade, who as a former chairman of the New York County Republican Party was the counterpart and rival  of Tammany Hall's Carmine De Sapio, died Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital. A Manhattan resident, he was 91 and still serv
 Donald John Bruckmann, a New York investment banker who was the board chairman of the Animal Medical Center, a trustee and former chairman of the New York Botanical Garden and an enthusiastic gardener, sailor and conservationist, died Wednesday at his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He
 Norman Williams, a British lawyer best known as a prolific writer about stamps and stamp collecting, died on April 9 in London. He was 85. Mr. Williams was best known to American collectors as the co-author with his brother Maurice of ''Fundamentals of Philately,'' an exhaustive stu
 AARON-Charles. On April 23, 1999. The most devoted husband of Pearl. Most beloved father of Deborah Aaron and Jay Cantor. Cherished brother of Nettie Katcher and Ruth Franklin. Charles was a resident of West Caldwell, N.J. for 43 years. He received a Master's Degree in Mechanical Engineerin
 BLIT-Roman A. Died peacefully on April 23, 1999 at age 92. He left Warsaw after the German Occupation of Poland in 1939, and through Russia and Lithuania, came to New York in April 1941. He was an intelligent and educated man who worked closely with the Labor Movement. He was employed by th
 BROWN-Harvey 86, died April 22, 1999. Devoted husband of Ida. Beloved father of Susan and Michael. Caring grandfather. A life-long resident of New York's garment district. He was dedicated to his family and proud of their achievements, especially the 1985 Nobel Prize awarded to his son. Mem
 BROWN-William. Peacefully on April 22, 1999, at home in East Rockaway, NY, after a brief illness. Loving husband of Gertrude, his wife of more than 60 years, and proud father of Robert, Alan and Carol, and grandfather of Nicholas, Deborah, Joshua, Rachel and Wendy. After graduating from Pra
 BRUCKMANN-Donald J. The Board of Trustees of The Animal Medical Center mourns the passing of its Chairman, Donald J. Bruckmann. His passion and unceasing work for companion animals gave AMC the renewed vigor the organization now enjoys. He will be deeply missed by staff and friends of AMC a
 COWLEY - Alexander Stewart. Died April 21, 1999, in New York. Devoted father of Steph and adoring grandfather of Sven. Known to all as Stewart, as the founder and President of Stewart Models, Stewart Men, Stewart Artists, and Model of the Year Pageant, he was an innovator and respected lead
 DAWN-David A. 87, of Boca Raton, FL and Southampton, NY, died April 21 in Boca Raton surrounded by his family and friends. He is survived by his beloved wife Helga Roswitha Dawn, two daughters Alice Rosemarie Dawn and Carolyn May Dawn; his son Robert Stuart Dawn, his stepsons Dr. Peter Jose
 DEISS-Joseph Jay. 1912-1999, of Wellfleet, MA., and Gainesville, FL died peacefully on April 10. Active in Farm Tenancy under the New Deal, Vice Director American Academy. Rome 1965-69, Writerin-Resident, Harvard, 1975, he was author of award-winning novels, biographies, and archeological w
 FRANK-Peter. On April 24, in his 68th year. Beloved husband of Marcia. Cherished father of David and Ann, and Kathy. Loving stepfather of Richard and Karen, Peter, and Larry and Debbie. Services Monday, 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory m
 GROSSMAN-William J. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of William J. Grossman, a generous supporter and cherished friend who was deeply committed to the Jewish community and humanitarian causes. A longtime contributor to UJA-Federatio
 GUARINO-Lt. Col. Harold B. Of Chester, VA. On April 16, 1999. Devoted husband of Col. Judith M. Guarino. Loving father of Kenneth and Jane Guarino and Maj. Nickolas and Noel Guarino. Proud grandfather of Benjamin, Johanna and Gabriel Guarino. Beloved brother of Charles. Born in NYC in 1938 
 HALLERAN-Leo Baker, Jr. Age 50, of East Lyme, CT, passed away at his home peacefully, April 23, 1999, after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in NYC, he was the son of the late Dr. Leo Baker Halleran and Virginia Ella Ros Halleran. He attended St. David's and the Allen Stevenson schools
 HERSHKOWITZ-Murray. Beloved father of Jacqueline (Irwin) Walkof, Michael (Barbara) Hirst, much loved grandfather of Sindi (Peter) Schorr, Craig (Mary) Silverstein, Jeff Silverstein, Scott (Mimi) Silverstein, Marissa Hirst, Kate Hirst, loving great grandfather, uncle, and stepfather. He will
 HERTZBERG-Howard, M.D. Of Alpine, NJ on April 23, 1999. He was an orthopedic surgeon for 30 years in New York City with Madison Avenue Orthopedics. Former Mayor of Alpine, NJ. Services 1 PM Monday at Louis Suburban Chapel, 13-01 Broadway (Rt. 4 West), Fair Lawn, NJ. HERTZBERG-Howard
 JOHNSTON-John Buckhout. In San Rafael, California, April 22, 1999. Age 79 years. Formerly of New Canaan, CT. Loving husband of Emma S. Johnston. Dear father of Alexa Horne, Cynthia Alexander, and John B. Johnston, Jr. Grandfather of four grandchildren. A native of St. Paul, Minnesota. He wa
 LOOP-Damon R. Died April 15, 1999. He was Director of Sales for Lycoming Div. of Avco. Survived by his wife Betty, son Terry, daughter Stacey Grasso, three grandchildren. Private services in Jacksonville, Florida at the convenience of the family.       
 MACNAB-John Brown. Age 77. From 1955 to 1992 beloved pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in the City of New York, died Tuesday, April 20 in Rehoboth, DE. Mourned by his wife Mary, daughters Jean, Mary Dee and Nancy, grandchildren, family and the congregation. A Memorial Service will be 
 MARTINO-Leonard D., 69. Died on April 6. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., he lived in Hohokus, NJ for the last 3 years. He retired in 1996 after a career of 52 years in the printing industry, where he was Production Manager of Skillcraft Inc. in Manhattan. He served in the Army during the Korean con
 McCALL-David. Board members, officers, and friends of the Humpty Dumpty Institute mourn the loss of their friend and colleague, Mr. David McCall and his wife Penny. His deep commitment to humanitarian causes will be remembered by all who accompanied him on our trip to Africa last year to es
 McDONAGH-Reverend Monsignor Charles G. On April 23, 1999. Devoted priest of the Archdiocese of New York. Beloved son of the late Hannah and Charles McDonagh. Cherished brother of Margaret Douglas, Joan Ferrara, Ann and the late Genevieve, and Eugene. Cherished uncle of six, and adored great
 McKINLEY - George. Lawyer, born in New York City, August 11, 1903; died April 15, 1999. Son of Thomas and Agnes Magill McKinley; husband of the late Joy Johnston McKinley (November 10, 1939). BA Columbia, 1929; LL.B. Yale, 1933. Retired partner, 1978, of Hawkins, Delafield & Wood. 1939-45: 
 MILCHMAN-Herman. On April 22, 1999, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., 94 years old. Founder and past president of Carter, Milchman & Frank, Inc. Beloved husband of Sally. Devoted father of Arline Bassel and the late Philip, Claire and Neil Rechtweg. Caring grandfather of Larry (Wendy), Peter (Cindy
 NEWMAN-Bernard, Judge. Universally acclaimed for his integrity by all who knew him, including Bishops, Deans, Governors, Legislators, Judges and fellow citizens on the streets of New York, Bernard Newman consistently credited his parents, and his wife for 59 years, Kathryn Bereano, and his 
 NEWMAN-Bernard, Judge. Universally acclaimed for his integrity by all who knew him, including Bishops, Deans, Governors, Legislators, Judges and fellow citizens on the streets of New York, Bernard Newman consistently credited his parents, and his wife for 59 years, Kathryn Bereano, and his 
 ROSEN-Harold. Delaire Country Club and its Board of Governors mourns the loss of its member, Harold Rosen, and extends its deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Jeanette, and his bereaved family. Robert Goldberg, President       
 ROTHSTEIN-Ben. Died April 19, 1999. Retired, The New York Times, Sunday Art Director of The Week in Review, The New York Times Magazine, Fashions of the Times, Report on Men's Wear, Children's Fashions and the Home sections. Retired Senior Assistant Art Director and Studio Manager, Newsweek
 SCHWARZ-Paul. Born June 1, 1911, originally from Amsterdam. Beloved husband and companion of Suzy. Internationally known jeweler (associated with the House of Harry Winston), passed away April 13 in Miami, FL. after a long and courageous struggle with illness. Gentle, kind and full of humor
 SCOTT-Dr. Paul H. On August 4, 1920-April 10th, 1999. Devoted husband of the late Dr. Dorothy Gregg; cherished father of Kim Alzerreca and Gregg Scott; loving grandfather of Xoli Redmond and Sophia Alzerreca. Compassionate dentist, outstanding sportsman and a heck of a dancer. Longtime move
 SMITH-Henry. Of Palm Beach, FL on April 22, 1999 at age 91. Beloved husband of the late Theodora A. Smith. Loving father of Gordon and Norma Smith and Fran Heller. Cherished grandfather of Randy Smith and Peter Aberg, Dr. Robin Smith and Dr. Kaare Kolstad, Melissa Haveson Pavese and John Pa
 STEBE-Peter F., of Flushing, NY, on April 21, 1999. Visitation Sunday, April 25, from 2-5 and 7-9 p.m., Hillebrand Funeral Home, 63-17 Woodhaven Blvd. Funeral mass Monday, April 26, 9:45 a.m., at Saint Margaret's RC Church, 80 St. and Juniper Valley Rd., Middle Village. Interment at Calvert
 WOOLF-Donald V. (Don). Died at age 69 on April 21 in Green Valley AZ. Survived by his wife, Ellen (O'Meara Rhodin); two children from a previous marriage, Andrew of Boston MA, and Elizabeth of Enfield, England; a stepdaughter, Andrea Tebbets of Washington, DC; and two grandchildren.       
 Robert James Johnston, a naval engineer who became an innovative designer of hydrofoils and other high-speed watercraft, died on April 16 at his home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Johnston focused on improving hydrofoils, which 
 William H. Armstrong, a teacher and writer best known for his 1969 children's novel ''Sounder,'' died on April 11 at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 87. Set among a community of black sharecroppers, ''Sounder'' told the story of a loyal dog, his ill-fated master and the boy who loved
 Don McGuire, a writer, director and producer in Hollywood, died on  April 13 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 80. Mr. McGuire was credited with adapting Howard Breslin's story ''Bad Time at Hondo'' into what became the 1955 movie ''Bad Day at Black Rock,'' directed by John Sturges
 Donald W. Pritchard, an oceanographer and expert on the Long Island Sound and the Chesapeake Bay, died on Friday at the University of Maryland Hospital in Baltimore. He was 76 and lived in Severna Park, Md. The cause of death was a stroke, said his daughter Jo Anne Mitchell.        
 Jim Copp, a creator of children's records with loony tunes, literate lyrics, occasional dark themes and wacky characters like the Dog That Went to Yale, died at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles on April 7. He was 85. Between 1958 and 1971, Mr. Copp and his partner, Ed Brown, composed,
 Julian David Cole, a professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., and an internationally acknowledged expert on the applied-mathematics technique known as perturbation, died April 17 at Albany Medical Center Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Loudonville, N.Y. The caus
 Lord Killanin, the president of the International Olympic Committee from 1972 to 1980, a tumultuous period when the Olympic movement was buffeted by political boycotts, died yesterday at his home in Dublin. He was 84. Lord Killanin, an Irish peer who had been a journalist, film prod
 BALSAM-Jerome. On April 25, 1999, in his 75th year. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Mark Balsam and Joan Galinkin. Loving grandfather of Chris, Jenna and Jesse. Services 10:45 AM, Tuesday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers memorial donations to 
 BLUMENKRANTZ-Steven J. 52, of the town of Maryland, NY. Died Tuesday, April 20 of an apparent heart attack. Beloved husband of Carole. Father of Katie. Son of Renee and the late Harris. Brother of David. He practiced law in New York City and Oneonta, NY. He was an Assistant Professor at the
 CANTER-Stanley D. 75, of New York, NY, and Richmond, MA, died on Saturday, April 24, in New York City of cancer. Devoted husband of Florence, beloved father of Robert and Leonard and daughter-in-law Julie. He is also survived by two grandchildren, Alexandra and Samuel. A former Partner and 
 COWLEY-Alexander Stewart. A celebration of Stewart's life will be held for his many friends, appropriately at P.J. Clarke's, on Tuesday, April 27, from 5-7 PM.       
 FRANK-Peter. The Otis Woodlands Community of Otis, MA, is deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved friend and former President Peter Frank. We will always be grateful for his wise counsel and dedication to the continuity of our community. Peter drew us close to him with his loving kindnes
 JOHNSTON-J. Buckhout. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York, Inc., deeply mourns the passing of J. Buckhout (''Bucky'') Johnston, a loyal friend of the Orchestra. Mr. Johnston served as a member of the Philharmonic's Board of Directors for many years, and was elected an Honorary Dir
 KATZ-Rita. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Fredi Schuster on the loss of his sister. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 MACNAB-John Brown. Age 77. From 1955 to 1992 beloved pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in the City of New York, died Tuesday, April 20 in Rehoboth, DE. Mourned by his wife Mary, daughters Jean, Mary Dee and Nancy, grandchildren, family and the congregation. A Memorial Service will be 
 McDONAGH-Reverend Monsignor Charles G. On April 23, 1999. Devoted priest of the Archdiocese of New York. Beloved son of the late Hannah and Charles McDonagh. Cherished brother of Margaret Douglas, Joan Ferrara, Ann and the late Genevieve, and Eugene. Cherished uncle of six, and adored great
 NEWMAN-Bernard, Judge. The officers and members of the LaGuardia Memorial Association mourn the passing of a longtime member and distinguished jurist. He will be missed. Morton B. Lawrence, Secretary       
 SAGER-Victor. Beloved husband of the late Mildred (nee Cohen). Loving and dearest father of Linda, Andrew, Richard, Wendy, Lawri and Jinny. Devoted and loving brother of Edna and Irving, and the late Harriet, Norma and Stephen. Adoring grandfather, great-grandfather, uncle and great-uncle. 
 SMITH-Henry. Of Palm Beach, FL on April 22, 1999 at age 91. Beloved husband of the late Theodora A. Smith. Loving father of Gordon and Norma Smith and Fran Heller. Cherished grandfather of Randy Smith and Peter Aberg, Dr. Robin Smith and Dr. Kaare Kolstad, Melissa Haveson Pavese and John Pa
 Stewart R. Macdonald, a former executive of the American Newspaper Publishers Association who started its foundation and helped it raise millions of dollars for education, died on April 18 in the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Leesburg. He was 74. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphom
 Stewart Warner Pach, who ran the Gillette Company's razor business in the 1960's, died April 14 at New England Baptist Hospital in Boston following a heart attack, according to his son, Peter B. Pach. He was 79. Mr. Pach was born in Worcester, Mass., and reared in Bronxville, N.Y. H
 Frank J. Pasquerilla, 72, a builder and philanthropist who started as a state highway clerk and became one of the richest men in Pennsylvania, died last Wednesday in a Johnstown, Pa., hospital. He made a fortune in shopping malls, department stores and hotels and gave away millions to suppo
 BLITZ-Murray. On April 26, 1999 in his 96th year. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Dear father of Lenore Lerner and Dr. Marvin Blitz. Loving grandfather to Jill, Douglas, Jonathan, Erica, Kenneth and Caroline and great grandfather to Matthew, Talia and Nicole. Services 9 am Wednesday at
 CANTER-Stanley D., 75. April 24, 1999. He was a man of great dignity and modesty, of elegant taste, intellectual clarity and profound generosity. His thoughtfulness, his kindness, his concern for those he loved and who loved him knew no bounds. His passions for music and painting enriched h
 COUGHLIN-William. The Officers and Members of the Bronx Realty Advisory Board mourn the passing of a cherished Board Member. Bill will be greatly missed and remembered with respect and affection. Heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Margaret, and his daughters, Elizabeth and Meghan. Michael Laub
 FARKAS-Peter, M.D. Age 55. On April 25, 1999. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Esther and Andrew. Son-in-law of Jozsef Illovszky. Also survived by many dear friends. Dr. Farkas was a renowned cardiologist in Hungary before coming to the U.S. and continued to practice in the Detroi
 GOLDMAN-Dave (Davey G). Our ENY-Brownsville biographer/historian/raconteur, teller of tales at Mike's Barbershop has left us suddenly. Who can fill his shoes? We will all miss him. Condolences to Ramona. Victor and Judy Beja       
 GOLDMAN-Leo. On April 25th after a short illness. Devoted father of Debbie Plant and Amy London. Dear father-in-law of Frank Plant and Joel London. Beloved Papa of Matthew and Marissa Plant, Elizabeth and Stephanie London. Cherished brother of Frieda Lefkowitz. He was a professor of Counsel
 JOHNSTON-J. Buckhout. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York, Inc., deeply mourns the passing of J. Buckhout (''Bucky'') Johnston, a loyal friend of the Orchestra. Mr. Johnston served as a member of the Philharmonic's Board of Directors for many years, and was elected an Honorary Dir
 KOPF-Solomon Wolfe. Age 82, on April 21, 1999. Formerly of Jamaica Estates, NY. Recently of Rockville, MD. Devoted husband, father and grandfather. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Sydell, dedicated daughters and sons-in-law, Randi Kopf Rothenberg, Dr. Russell Rothenberg, Lisa Kopf Krizma
 LAWLEY-Robert Kenneth. Born in Belfast, Northern Ireland on 11 January, 1913, was educated at the Royal Belfast Academical Institution. In 1932 he entered the British Civil Service as officer of Customs and Excise. Shortly after the outbreak of war in 1939, he was promoted and transferred t
 LEAVITT-Joseph M. DDS. Beloved husband of Harriet for 52 years; father of Marc and Trudie; grandfather of Allegra, Josh and Emily. Died gracefully April 25, 1999 in Waterbury, Ct. after a long illness. Born April 23, 1915 and raised in Brooklyn. Joe graduated from the University of Oklahoma
 McKINLEY-George. The Officers, Directors and members of the Bronx County Bar Association mourn the passing of our distinguished past President and extend our deepest sympathy to his bereaved family.       
 OLKEN-Selma. We are saddened at the passing of Selma Olken. Dorothy and Buddy Martin and Family OLKEN-Selma. Our sympathies to Steven Olken and his family on the death of their mother. Love, Lynn and Mitchell       
 SCHWARTZ-Jules H. Died peacefully at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. too soon at the age of 72. He was the most beloved husband and friend of Sandy and the proud and loving father to Marcy, Andy and Barrie. He was also the most adoring Gramp to Michael, Evan, Yoni, Asher, Bra
 SMITH-Henry. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute mourns the passing of Henry Smith, beloved father of Gordon Smith and our distinguished Trustee, Norma Smith. Henry Smith will always be remembered as a committed fr
 STALLINGS-Roger W., 87, died Sunday, April 25, 1999 at the Teresian House in Albany. He was born and raised in St. Louis, Missouri and was a longtime resident of Rye, NY. A graduate of St. Louis University with honors, he served as a Lieutenant in the Navy during World War II. He continued 
 WALLACH-Meyer. On April 23, 1999 in his 95 year. Loving husband of the late Pauline Wallach, devoted father of Lorraine and Don Carren and Anita Dimendberg. Dear grandfather of Rachel Carren Young, Elizabeth Carren Amidon, Deborah November and Edward Dimendberg and greatgrandfather of Emily
 WEINBERG-Walter L. In his 78th year, of Long Island, NY. Devoted husband of Janet (nee Newton). Beloved father of Matthew, Joshua and Asher. Loving brother of Shirley Kotcher and Joan Devine. Services today, 12 noon, at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, Long Island.       
 WEINBERGER-Leon J. Father of TV writer/producer ED. Weinberger, passed away April 25 in Los Angeles at the age of 100. He is also survived by his beloved wife Helen of 66 years, daughter-in-law Carlene and two grandchildren, Jack and Sam. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be
 Roman L. Hruska, who served 22 years as a conservative Republican senator from Nebraska, died on Sunday at Clarkson Hospital in Omaha. He was 94 and had wielded considerable influence on the Judiciary Committee. Senator Hruska was the ranking minority member of the Senate Judiciary 
 Al Hirt, the portly Dixieland jazz trumpeter who was a symbol of the exuberant laissez-faire way of life of New Orleans, died yesterday at home in New Orleans. He was 76. Mr. Hirt had been hospitalized until last week at East Jefferson General Hospital in Metairie, La., with liver a
 Arbit Blatas, a Lithuanian-born artist whose career bridged New York, Venice and the Paris of Picasso, Matisse, Braque, Dufy, Bonnard, Vlaminck, Utrillo, Soutine and Cocteau -- all of whom he rendered in paint, clay or bronze -- died yesterday at his studio home in Manhattan. He was 90.    
 Cao Huoxing, a Chinese farmer's son who wrote a Communist song that has become familiar to hundreds of millions of Chinese, died on April 16 in Tianjin, in northern China, the official New China News Agency reported. He was 75 and had been chairman of the Tianjin Municipal Bureau of
 Herbert Young, who was decorated by the French Government in February for his service in World War I, died on Thursday at his home in Harlem. He would have turned 113 next week. Mr. Young, a retired mechanic, was considered the oldest living New Yorker by the city's Department for t
 BARBAN-Sigmund. On April 26, 1999. Beloved uncle of Toni Levin Smith, Claire Bleiberg Schacht, Charles Levin and Simon Levin. Granduncle of Peter Bleiberg, Mona Bleiberg Bennett, Maureen Smith, Bryan Smith, Yale Levin, Michael Levin, Jacob Levin, Daniel Levin and Joshua Levin. Memorial serv
 BERGER-Alfred J., M.D. of Delray Beach, Fl. died April 26, 1999. A graduate of Harvard Medical School, he retired in 1986. He is survived by his wife Page, and his son Robert B. (Buzz) Berger of Princeton, and daughter Barbara Berger of Larchmont, four grand children, and his sister Charlot
 CANTER-Stanley D., 75. April 24, 1999. He was a man of great dignity and modesty, of elegant taste, intellectual clarity and profound generosity. His thoughtfulness, his kindness, his concern for those he loved and who loved him knew no bounds. His passions for music and painting enriched h
 CARPENTER-David Lyon, 75, of Kinnelon, on April 22, 1999. Employed as an executive for Johns Manville Corporation. He was a graduate of Yale University. He also attended the Woodward School and Brooklyn Poly Prep. Husband of Joan (nee Bruce) Carpenter; father of Jon, David W. Carpenter and 
 CHANG-Donald Kwang-Cheng. Age 62, of Queens, passed away February 27, 1999. Born in Beijing to Wo-Jun & Hsin Hsiang Lo Chang. Obtained B.A., foreign languages, National Taiwan University, 1960; M.A., photographic art, Pratt Institute, 1967. Appointed tenured Senior Lecturer, Department East
 DAWN-David. The Board and Staff of The New York Botanical Garden note with sadness the death of David Dawn. He was one of the nation's premier rose growers and a generous leader of the Peggy Rockefeller Rose Garden Committee. We offer our deep sympathy to his wife Helga and their family. Th
 HAHN-Martin I. The New York Power Squadron announces with sadness the death on April 25th of Past Commander Martin I. Hahn in his 92nd year. Commander Hahn, who had been a member of the New York Squadron for 62 years, will be missed for his leadership and warmth. A memorial service will be 
 HARRIS-Nathan, age 95, jeweler. Retired president of B. Harris and Sons, Jewelers, originally established as the first retail jewelry store on West 47th Street in 1926, died last Monday at the Jewish Home for the Elderly in Fairfield, CT. Together with his late brother, Charles, he owned an
 JOHNSTON-John Buckhout. In San Rafael, California, April 22, 1999. Age 79 years. Formerly of New Canaan, CT. Loving husband of Emma S. Johnston. Dear father of Alexa Horne, Cynthia Alexander, and John B. Johnston, Jr. Grandfather of four grandchildren. A native of St. Paul, Minnesota. He wa
 LLOLYA-Andrew. The New York City Ballet Orchestra deeply mourns the loss of our principal flutist, Andrew Llolya. His artistry and dedication to our orchestra will be sorely missed. New York City Ballet Orchestra       
 MARKS-Howard A. On April 27, 1999. Of Searingtown, L.I. Beloved husband of Lorene; devoted father of Michael and Yvonne, Brian and Lynne, Jeffrey and Jill; dear brother of Florence Lando and Sis Schneider; loving grandfather of Jennifer, Amy, Melanie, Kelli, Madeline, Shelby, Aaron and Juli
 WEINSTEIN - Howard (Chaim). Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends heartfelt condolences to his brothers, Board member and alumnus, Boruch, alumnus David, sister Joy, father Mordechai and wife Leah. Hamakom Yenachemchem.       
 WILLIAMS-W. Hazaiah, The Rev. Dr. May 14, 1930-April 24, 1999. On Saturday, April 24, 1999, the Rev. Dr. W. Hazaiah Williams, Founder and Director for 35 years of Today's Artists Concerts and Founder and Artistic Director of Four Seasons Concerts for six years, passed away in Berkeley, CA. 
 WINKLER-Roy. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved Life member Roy Winkler. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 Roger Troutman, a renowned funk-music innovator who recorded with his brothers in the band Zapp in the early 80's, died on Sunday at the Good Samaritan Hospital and Health Center in Dayton, Ohio. He was 47 and lived in Dayton. Mr. Troutman was shot several times in the torso on Sund
 Andrew J. Loyla, a flutist who played in the New York City Ballet Orchestra for nearly 30 years and was a member of the executive board of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, died on  April 17 at St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains. He was 69 and lived in Ossining, N.Y.       
 Charles H. Pillard, the strong-willed president of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers for two decades, died on Monday in a hospital in Buffalo. He was 80 and had lived in Orchard Park, N.Y., a suburb of Buffalo, since 1988. The cause was a heart attack, The Associat
 Max Hutchinson, an art dealer and gallery owner who was instrumental in the sale of Jackson Pollock's large, late drip painting ''Blue Poles,'' to the National Gallery of Australia in Canberra, died on Friday at Community General Hospital of Sullivan County in Harris, N.Y. He was 73 and had
 ABRAMS-Arthur. The Board of Directors and Staff of The American Friends of the Israel Museum, and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, mourn the sudden death of Arthur Abrams, beloved father of our esteemed President, Judy Steinhardt. He will be deeply missed by the Israel Museum family. Our he
 BARBAN-Sigmund. On April 26, 1999. Beloved uncle of Toni Levin Smith, Claire Bleiberg Schacht, Charles Levin and Simon Levin. Granduncle of Peter Bleiberg, Mona Bleiberg Bennett, Maureen Smith, Bryan Smith, Yale Levin, Michael Levin, Jacob Levin, Daniel Levin and Joshua Levin. Memorial serv
 BERGER-Alfred J., M.D.  of Delray Beach, Fl. died April 26, 1999. A graduate of Harvard Medical School, he retired in 1986. He is survived by his wife Page, and his son Robert B. (Buzz) Berger of Princeton, and daughter Barbara Berger of Larchmont, four grand children, and his sister Charlo
 BLACKSBURG-Alvin Brent (aka Blackie). Died April 14, 1999. Friendship always came first. He met everyone on the level. Mason since May 24, 1960. Worshipful Master of Arcana Lodge, 1975. Past Assistant Grand Lecturer. Ritualist. Chemical Engineer. Lawyer. Chief Assistant District Attorney, Q
 BLATAS-Arbit. Age 90. Renowned painter and sculptor on April 27, 1999. Survived by his beloved wife Regina Resnik Blatas. Loving father of Dorothee, son-in-law Achour Radji, stepson Michael Philip Davis and grandchildren Sara, and Michael. Burial Friday, April 30 will be private. In lieu of
 BOUDREAU-Harold Joseph. Interior designer extraodinaire, left us on April 24th at the age of 41. He decorated many homes and many lives. We will miss our lively, lovely, talented friend. Diane and Henry Cowen       
 CANTER-Stanley D., 75. April 24, 1999. He was a man of great dignity and modesty, of elegant taste, intellectual clarity and profound generosity. His thoughtfulness, his kindness, his concern for those he loved and who loved him knew no bounds. His passions for music and painting enriched h
 CARPENTER-David Lyon, 75, of Kinnelon, on April 22, 1999. Employed as an executive for Johns Manville Corporation. He was a graduate of Yale University. He also attended the Woodward School and Brooklyn Poly Prep. Husband of Joan (nee Bruce) Carpenter; father of Jon, David W. Carpenter and 
 CHANG-Donald Kwang-Cheng. Age 62, of Queens, passed away February 27, 1999. Born in Beijing to Wo-Jun & Hsin Hsiang Lo Chang. Obtained B.A., foreign languages, National Taiwan University, 1960; M.A., photographic art, Pratt Institute, 1967. Appointed tenured Senior Lecturer, Department East
 DAWN-David. The Board and Staff of The New York Botanical Garden note with sadness the death of David Dawn. He was one of the nation's premier rose growers and a generous leader of the Peggy Rockefeller Rose Garden Committee. We offer our deep sympathy to his wife Helga and their family. Th
 DiCARLO-Sr. Judge Dominick L. The Chief Judge, the Colleagues and the Staff of the US Court of International Trade express their deepest sorrow at the passing of a distinguished member of the Court, the esteemed and beloved Dominick L. DiCarlo and extend their heartfelt condolences to the b
 FLORIN-Walter. Beloved husband of Esther. Loving father of Mark and Joel. Cherished grandfather of Daniella, Samuel, David and Michelle. Also survived by many dear friends. Founded Micro Essential Laboratory, Inc. in 1934. Developer and inventor of Hydrion PH Products, which have been used 
 HAHN-Martin I. The New York Power Squadron announces with sadness the death on April 25th of Past Commander Martin I. Hahn in his 92nd year. Commander Hahn, who had been a member of the New York Squadron for 62 years, will be missed for his leadership and warmth. A memorial service was held
 HARRIS-Nathan, age 95, jeweler. Retired president of B. Harris and Sons, Jewelers, originally established as the first retail jewelry store on West 47th Street in 1926, died last Monday at the Jewish Home for the Elderly in Fairfield, CT. Together with his late brother, Charles, he owned an
 HOFFMAN-Hon. Daniel. On April 23, 1999 at his home in Tamarac, FL. Beloved husband of Leah. Revered uncle to his nieces and nephews. Judge of the New York City Criminal Court, 1966-1975. He was always respected for his wisdom and integrity, admired for his strength of character, cherished f
 JOHNSTON-John Buckhout. In San Rafael, California, April 22, 1999. Age 79 years. Formerly of New Canaan, CT. Loving husband of Emma S. Johnston. Dear father of Alexa Horne, Cynthia Alexander, and John B. Johnston, Jr. Grandfather of four grandchildren. A native of St. Paul, Minnesota. He wa
 LANDAUER-Rolf W. On April 28, 1999 of Briarcliff Manor, New York. Husband of Muriel (Jussim) Landauer. Father of Karen Walsh, Thomas and Carl Landauer. Grandfather of 3. Funeral service Friday 1 PM, Temple Beth El, 229 Bedford Rd. (Rt. 117), Chappaqua, New York. Interment Mount Eden Cemeter
 LLOLYA-Andrew. The New York City Ballet Orchestra deeply mourns the loss of our principal flutist, Andrew Llolya. His artistry and dedication to our orchestra will be sorely missed. New York City Ballet Orchestra       
 MARKS-Howard A. On April 27, 1999. Of Searingtown, L.I. Beloved husband of Lorene; devoted father of Michael and Yvonne, Brian and Lynne, Jeffrey and Jill; dear brother of Florence Lando and Sis Schneider; loving grandfather of Jennifer, Amy, Melanie, Kelli, Madeline, Shelby, Aaron and Juli
 PARK-Leo. 1975-1999. Loving son and brother. Friend to all. His great compassion, his kindness and his smile will never be forgotten. He brought out the best in all of us. Leo, a place will always be saved for you at our table, at the game, and in our hearts. You showed us the joy of life, 
 RICCA-Joseph, M.D. The Board of Regents and Administration of Long Island College Hospital join the physicians and staff of the Department of Internal Medicine in mourning the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, Joseph Ricca, M.D., former Chief of the Division of Gastroenterology.
 SAGER-Victor. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Victor Sager, a dedicated contributor and cherished friend. His brother and sister-in-law, Irving and Dorothy Sager, are deeply committed to Jewish and humanitarian causes through th
 WEINSTEIN - Howard (Chaim). Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends heartfelt condolences to his brothers, Board member and alumnus, Boruch, alumnus David, sister Joy, father Mordechai and wife Leah. Hamakom Yenachemchem.       
 WILLIAMS-W. Hazaiah, The Rev. Dr. May 14, 1930-April 24, 1999. On Saturday, April 24, 1999, the Rev. Dr. W. Hazaiah Williams, Founder and Director for 35 years of Today's Artists Concerts and Founder and Artistic Director of Four Seasons Concerts for six years, passed away in Berkeley, CA. 
 WINKLER-Roy. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved Life member Roy Winkler. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 ZAHM-Joseph Bakst, Ph.D. Of New Rochelle, formerly of Manhattan, on April 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Ann Berry Zahm, loving father of Noah William Zahm, dear brother of David Leon Zahm. There will be a memorial gathering at the family's home on Thursday, April 29, after 6 PM, Saturday and
 Arthur L. Schawlow, co-winner of the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physics for his role in the development of lasers, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 77 and lived in Palo Alto. The cause was congestive heart failure resulting from leukemia, said a spokesman at Stan
 Dominick L. DiCarlo, a Federal judge and a former New York State Assemblyman from Brooklyn, died on Tuesday after suffering a heart attack while exercising at a gym at the Federal court complex in Manhattan. He was 71. Mr. DiCarlo, a conservative Republican who was also an assistant
 ABRAMS-Arthur L., 86, of Scranton, PA, on April 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth Friedman. Cherished father of Judy Steinhardt, Ellen Abrams Stossel, Ann Lutz. Loved by his grandchildren, David and Daniel Steinhardt and Sara Berman, Lauren and Max Stossel, Emily and Ben Kaplan. Adoring gre
 BACK-Eugene F., aka The Judge, passed away April 27, 1999. A retired major, attorney and judge, he is survived by his daughter (Ellen) T'Brin, step-sons, Kenneth and Jeffrey Morgen, and his most beloved cat, Mooki.       
 BLATAS-Arbit. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of artist and sculptor Arbit Blatas. Mr. Blatas created the ''ADL Holocaust Memorial Wall,'' commemorating the night of December 5, 1943, when the first 200 of Venice's Jews were rounded up and deported to their deaths. The plaques
 de Vries-Lion J. Beloved husband of Tilly, loving father of Christina and Eveline, grandfather to Bridge and Michael, passed away on April 29, 1999. Memorial service will be held on Sunday, May 2nd, his birthday, at 4PM, Marble Collegiate Church, 29th St., & 5th Ave.       
 FUQUA-Stephen O. Jr, 88, retired General US Army, of Cornwall-onHudson NY died at Westchester Medical Center April 28, 1999. He is survived by his wife Frances Hathaway Fuqua at home, four sons and one daughter, four stepchildren. Funeral service will be at Old Cadet Chapel U.S. Military Ac
 KAHN-Lawrence. Of Flushing on April 28, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice; devoted father of Robert Kahn and Diana Taylor; loving grandfather of Brian and Rebecca Taylor; beloved brother of Joseph and the late Henry; dearest father-in-law of Harris Taylor and Patrice Lyons; loving 
 LOLYA-Andrew. The New York City Ballet Orchestra deeply mourns the loss of our principal flutist, Andrew Lolya. His artistry and dedication to our orchestra will be sorely missed. New York City Ballet Orchestra       
 MARKS-Howard. To our brotherin-law Jeffrey and our sister Jill, we extend our deepest condolences on the loss of Jeffrey's father, Howard Marks. We were privileged to know him and our lives were truly blessed by his kind heart, generous spirit and thoughtful insight. To Lorene, Michael, Yvo
 RAPPAPORT-Herbert. On April 29, 1999 at age 86. A gentle man and a gentle soul, admired for his keen intelligence and quick wit. He was devoted to his late wife, Eleanor, and dearly loved by his daughters, Judy Tobey and Ruthann Lehrer. He will be missed by his grandchildren, Jackie, Emily,
 STEWART-Rudolph. We mourn with great sadness the passing of Rudolph Stewart, Associate House Manager of Carnegie Hall, who for more than 28 years greeted artists, patrons, and everyone to the Hall with unforgettable warmth and grace. Rudy's wonderful smile, and his friendship, will remain l
 Rolf W. Landauer, who helped solidify the slippery concept of information and bring it firmly into the mainstream of physics, died on Tuesday at his home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 72. He died of brain cancer, his family said. ''Information is inevitably physical,'' th
 Rory Calhoun, a heartthrob-handsome actor who starred in scores of cowboy movies and the television series ''The Texan,'' died Wednesday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Burbank, Calif. He was 76. Mr. Calhoun, who lived in Morongo Valley, Calif, was being treated at the hospital fo
