 Gordon S. Macklin, who guided the growth of one of the world's largest securities trading systems, the computerized service known as Nasdaq, died Tuesday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 78. The cause was a stroke, his assistant, Anna Fukara, told Bloomberg News. More than three
 Joseph S. Farland, who as the American ambassador to Pakistan in 1971 helped Henry A. Kissinger surreptitiously slip into China for 36 hours to lay the groundwork for President Richard M. Nixon's historic visit to China, died Sunday at his home in Winchester, Va. He was 92. The caus
 ADAM--Alexander Jay, age 23, adored son of Winky and Laszlo and beloved older brother of Nick and Dash, died peacefully at home in New York City on January 25, 2007, after a two year battle with Ewings Sarcoma. Alex faced his long, painful illness with the same qualities with which he lived
 FORCE--Elizabeth Sculthorp, January 23rd. Born March 25th, 1902, in Sea Bright, NJ. Pioneer in family-life education. Beloved teacher in Toms River; author, lecturer, consultant, world traveler. Director of family-life programs for the American Social Health Association. Onetime president o
 GARFINKEL - DAVID. The Yeshiva University and Yeshiva University Museum families extend profound condolences to our esteemed Museum board member James Garfinkel on the passing of his beloved brother David Garfinkel. Sincerest condolences are also extended to David's wife and daughters and t
 ORANGE--Michael M.D. died peacefully on January 28th at St. Marys Hospital in North Palm Beach, Florida. He is survived by his loving Wife Ruth, devoted daughters, Jan Orange and Jeri Cohen, his sons-in-law, Ira Podlofsky and Sanford Cohen, his adoring grandchildren, Zachary and Alexandra C
 RUBIN--Leonard. The Directors and Counsel of Franklin Mutual Series Fund mourn the loss of our fellow Director and friend Lenny Rubin. A man of principle and a dear friend, Lenny will be dearly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Syril and his family.       
 Bernie Friedkin, a native of Brownsville, Brooklyn, who was known as Schoolboy and who as a professional boxer in the late 1930s and early '40s battled many of his opponents to a draw -- including three former lightweight champions -- died Jan. 18 in Brooklyn. He was 89. He 
 Sidney Sheldon, an Oscar- and Tony-winning writer of squeaky-clean fare for stage and screen who became world famous for his later career as a writer of steamy, best-selling novels, died on Tuesday in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 89 and had homes in Malibu and Palm Springs, Calif. T
 Gian Carlo Menotti, who wrote his first opera before he was 11 and went on to become perhaps the most popular and prolific opera composer of his time, winning two Pulitzer Prizes, died Thursday in Monaco, where he had a home. He was 95. His death, at Princess Grace Hospital, was ann
 Ken Kavanaugh, an All-Pro receiver for the Chicago Bears in the 1940s and an assistant coach and scout for the New York Giants for 45 years, died Jan. 25 in Sarasota, Fla., where he had lived since retiring from football in 1999. He was 90. The cause was complications of pneumonia, 
 ADAM--Alex. From all of us at Trinity who admired Alex onstage and off. We will remember his talent, dedication, kindness and wit. Our hearts go out to Winky, Laszlo, Dash and Nick.       
 DALY--John Kieran. BornMarch 15, 1956 in Staten Island, NY and most recently lived in Manhattan. John was a partner with Harvey Gladstein & Partners, NY. His career in Law began as Assistant District Attorney, Bronx County. He was a brilliant trial attorney with great respect for the practi
 DEMPSTER--Curt. The Advisory Board of the Ensemble Studio Theatre mourns the recent passing of our brilliant Artistic Director and dear friend Curt Dempster. In his life Curt guided the production of more than 6,000 plays. Actor, director, producer, mentor, he propelled so many to find and 
 DODGE--Cleveland E., Jr. Wave Hill mourns the passing of Cleveland E. Dodge, Jr., Chairman of the Board of the Cleveland H. Dodge Foundation, Inc., longtime friend and steadfast supporter of our gardens, landscape and programs. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family, especially his 
 DRINAN--Robert. The American Civil Liberties Union mourns the passing of steadfast civil liberties supporter, Father Robert Frederick Drinan. A five-term member of the House of Representatives, Drinan's firm belief in religious liberty led him to become an unlikely opponent of constitutiona
 FENTON--Arnold N. North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, NY, and its medical staff mourn the passing of our long-time colleague, Arnold N. Fenton, M.D., a highly revered physician beloved by both his patients and fellow Doctors. The Hospital's former chairman of obstetrics and gyneco
 GALIN--Jay. The Gift of Life Bone Marrow Foundation is deeply saddened by the loss of Jay Galin. Jay was responsible for recruiting many lifesaving donors to Gift of Life's Registry during the search for his own donor, and supported the Foundation through his philanthropic efforts. His enth
 KAVANAGH--Roger P. III, president and chief executive officer of Intermarine, a New Orleans shipping company, died Monday of cancer at his home in Metairie. He was 54. Mr. Kavanagh was born in Greensboro, NC, and graduated from Princeton University in 1975. Choosing a career in ocean shippi
 LEHRER--Morton, 82, of Sarasota, FL, passed away at his home January 30, 2007. He was born on July 4, 1924, NY, NY. He began his career as an accountant, working with Harry A. Stern in 1942. Shortly thereafter he left to serve in the 9th infantry division of the Army for the duration of Wor
 MACKLIN--Gordon S. The Madoff Family mourns the loss of our dear friend and colleague Gordon S. Macklin. His wisdom and leadership of the National Association of Security Dealers personified the highest ideals of broker dealer self-regulation. His vision of a highly automated and transparen
 MEYER--Frank, former managing editor of Variety, died of lung cancer at 71. Career also included producing Larry King's Miami radio show, amongst many journalistic endeavors worldwide. Survived by his wife Mikki, children Jana Abel (Bennett), Ryan, grandchildren Jack and Lily, brother Micha
 MOTLEY--Joel W. Died of complications following heart surgery, on January 29. Predeceased by his wife, The Honorable Constance Baker Motley; mourned by his son, Joel W. Motley III; his daughter-in-law, Isolde Motley; his grandchildren Hannah, Ian, and Senay; and his many relatives and frien
 NADASI--John Ivan, died January 31, 2007 at age 73. Born May 15, 1933 in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, to Desider and Ljerka (nee Hirschl) Nadasi. John served his country in Kiel, Germany, with the US Army, who liberated him. John was the co-founder of the Blue Star Youth Soccer Club, and worked as a
 ORANGE--Dr. Michael, Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member Dr. Michael Orange. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Ruth and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence Glass, President       
 SCHAFFER--Milton, age 95, on January 28, 2007. Devoted father of the late Larry, cherished grandfather of Roni Greer, loving great-grandfather of Jamie and Jocelyn. He lived a long, happy life and will be missed by all who knew and loved him.       
 WALLACH--William, on January 31. Deeply loved by his wife Audrey Bard; his children Andrew (Nancy) and Stephanie (Steven Schlossman); grandchildren Michael, Adam, Dea, Eli and David; sisters Bella Grandberg and Rosalind Demy. Donations: Carnegie Mellon, Gift Administration, 6 PPG, 11th floo
 YAMAMOTO--Tateki Tom, died on January 30, 2007, beloved husband of Kay and adored father of Erica and Alyssa. Tom led the New York office of Nikkei BP USA as president until his retirement in 2005. His goodness of spirit will forever be with us. Service followed by reception will be held on
 HIRSCHTRITT--Ethel. Be loved wife of the late Jack, devoted mother of Carol, Joel, and Nancy. Adored grandmother of Evan and Kasey, Stefanie, Jonathan, Marissa, and Alexandra. Loving great-grandmother of Carter, and Kennedy. Services Friday, Noon, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st St. and
 Bob Carroll Jr., a founding writer of ''I Love Lucy'' who helped introduce millions of viewers to the joys of frenzied grape stomping, warp-speed chocolate-stuffing and the increasingly tasty 46-proof patent medicine Vitameatavegamin, died on Jan. 27 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88.  
 Eric von Schmidt, a performer and composer of folk music who as a boy instantly fell in love with the blues when he heard Leadbelly on the radio, and who went on to be a mentor to and to inspire singers like Bob Dylan and Joan Baez, died yesterday in Fairfield, Conn. He was 75. His 
 ADAM--Alex. From all of us at Trinity who admired Alex onstage and off. We will remember his talent, dedication, kindness and wit. Our hearts go out to Winky, Laszlo, Dash and Nick.       
 D'AVANZO--Gerald. Our condolences to the family and colleagues of Gerald D'Avanzo, World's Fair Pharmacy, who served the medical needs of our consumers with compassion and professionalism and generously supported Independence Residences, Inc. All of us at IRI will miss him. Ruth Migliorelli
 DODGE--Cleveland E. Jr., January 28, 2007. We mourn the loss of our beloved Chairman of the Board. For more than 50 years, he has served the Foundation in its deliberations of philanthropic endeavors. We shall miss his wisdom, his generosity and his steadfast devotion to bettering the lives
 FENTON--Arnold N., M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at North Shore University Hospital mourns the loss of Arnold N. Fenton, M.D. Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology from 1960 to 1997. One of the hospital's founding leaders, Dr. Fenton was instrumental in 
 GUASTELLA--Arthur R. 79, of Brooklyn, died, January 31, 2007. He was a US Army Veteran, and a graduate of Columbia University. He was former editor of the ''Bond Buyer'' newspaper. In 1966 he joined Wainwright & Ramsey; later he worked at SmithBarney, and Blyth Eastmen Paine Webber. He was 
 MARTIN--James Alfred, Jr., Ph.D. of Decatur, GA, died Wednesday, January 24, 2007, of heart failure. Dr. Martin was a Danforth Professor of Religion in Higher Education at Union Theological Seminary from 1960-1982 and Professor of Religion at Columbia University from 1967-1982. In 1985, he 
 METH--Arnold D. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club, deeply mourn the loss of their beloved friend and esteemed member, Friar Arnold Meth. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Jerry Lewis, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Stewie Stone, Prior Fred C. Klein, Treasurer 
 RAY--William, 72, beloved husband of Madeline, devoted father of Tiernan and Claudia, fond father-in-law of Peter Zinman, adoring grandfather of Max Zinman, died Friday, January 26, 2007, in New York after a long illness. Bill was a gifted artist and computer whiz who loved silly jokes, act
 RIVERA--Gilbert. The Partners of Pryor, Cashman, Sherman & Flynn LLP mourn the passing of Gilbert Rivera, one of the great citizens of Brooklyn and this nation. He was the paradigm of American ethic that rewards hard work, intelligence, initiative, courage and integrity. He leaves the world
 ROSENBLUM--Jason, on February 1, 2007, formerly of Valley Stream, L.I. and Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Barbara for 59 years. Loving father of Sheila and Paul Ornstein, Richard and Roseanne Rosenblum, Adam and Jill Rosenblum, Jill Rosenblum-Silber and the Late Andrew Rosenblum. Adoring 
 SIEGEL--Arthur Jay, 55, died Tuesday of a heart attack. An international business consultant, and a self-taught mathematician/computer scientist. Invented PyGeo, a software used to create interactive, three-dimensional geometric spaces. Engaged in passionate debates about computer use in ma
 WALLACH--William, on January 31. Deeply loved by his wife Audrey Bard; his children Andrew (Nancy) and Stephanie (Steven Schlossman); grandchildren Michael, Adam, Dea, Eli and David; sisters Bella Grandberg and Rosalind Demy. Donations: Carnegie Mellon, Gift Administration, 6 PPG, 11th floo
 YAMAMOTO--Tateki Tom died on January 30, 2007, beloved husband of Kay and adored father of Erica and Alyssa. Tom led the New York office of Nikkei BP USA as president until his retirement in 2005. His goodness of spirit will forever be with us. Service followed by reception will be held on 
 HIRSCHTRITT--Ethel. The partners and staff of Tannenbaum Helpern Syracuse & Hirschtritt extend their deepest condolences to our esteemed Managing Partner, Joel Hirschtritt, and his family on the passing of his beloved mother.       
 Whitney Balliett, a jazz critic who in more than 40 years at The New Yorker magazine encouraged readers to hear jazz through his vividly metaphorical writing, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said his son Will Balliett. In describing 
 Calvin H. Plimpton, an educator who was instrumental in opening Amherst College's doors to women and who later, as president of American University of Beirut, sought to quell the violence as civil war raged in Lebanon, died on Tuesday at his home in Westwood, Mass. He was 88. Dr. Pl
 AGAY--Denes, Ph.D., composer, music editor, and internationally - recognized pro ponent for quality piano education, died on January 24 at age 95. The author of 96 books was born just outside Budapest, Hungary and emigrated to the US in 1939. Beloved husband to the late Mary Roberts Agay, D
 BALLIETT--Whitney, 80, died at his home in Manhattan, on Thursday, after a brief illness, spent surrounded by his loving family. He is survived by his wife Nancy Kraemer Balliett, children Julie Rose, Blue Balliett, Will Balliett, Whitney Balliett, Jr., and James Fargo Balliett, grandchildr
 BENNETT--Marc, 42, best friend and husband of Anna, most tender father of Asher, adored son of Leon and Rachelle; died January 31 of cancer. A gathering to honor his life on Monday, February 5, at 4:30 pm, New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street.       
 FARLEY--James B. (Jim) died peacefully after a prolonged illness in Gulf Stream, Florida on January 20, 2007. Jim was a charismatic and highly revered leader, a loving husband, a great father, a friend to many and an avid golfer. He will be missed. Jim was born on November 1, 1930 in Pittsb
 FENTON--Dr. Arnold N. Beloved physician, teacher and Emeritus Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Cornell University Medical College at North Shore University Hospital, died of natural causes at his home in Sarasota, Florida, 12 days before his 86th birthday. His family was at his bed
 GLABMAN--Dr. Sheldon. The Recanati/Miller Transplant Institute at the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of Dr. Sheldon Glabman. Dr. Glabman was an integral member, as well as a guiding force for the transplant program since its inception. Not only was he a superb clinician, but his in
 GOURARY--Paul, August 25, 1919 -January 29, 2007, son of Jules and Regina Gourary, survived by his wife of 50 years, Marianne Gourary, as well as his stepdaughter, Corinne Frugoni of Arcata, CA, his son, John, and daughterin-law, Jennifer, of NY, NY, and two grandchildren, Justin and Julia.
 HAMMER--Peter. A mathematician of international stature, died on December 27, 2006. He was born in Romania in 1936, and earned his Ph.D. under Academician Grigore Moisil. After he married Anca Ivanescu in 1961, the two defected to Israel. There, he was a professor at the Technion in Haifa. 
 JOYCE--George Robert McClellan, Huntington Beach, CA, died peacefully on January 20, 2007, with daughters Maggie Joyce Bailly (Mrs. Jeffrey Bailly) of Newburyport, MA and Brigid Joyce Harris (Mrs. Jeffrey Harris) of San Rafael, CA at his side, and daughters Andree Joyce Gordon (Mrs. John Go
 KRAMER--Howard. Beloved husband of Terry, loving son of Sally and the late Manny and brother of David (Margaret) and Fred. He was an outstanding attorney for many years in Raleigh, NC. He was a caring nephew of Ruth Perlman and Helen and Bob Bader. Services Sunday 1PM at Riverside Nassau No
 LACHMANN--Erich, ''Mickey'', 74, died January 28, 2007 in NYC. President of Turnpike Super Service, Middletown, NY. Former Fire Coordinator of Orange County, NY. Graduate of Muhlenberg College, 1954. Survived by his wife Christa-Louise (Vollmer) Lachmann, son Erich E. Lachmann of Middletown
 LAZARUS--Roger B., a mathematical physicist at Los Alamos National Laboratory for 35 years, died peacefully at home surrounded by loved ones on January 27 in Los Alamos, New Mexico. Lazarus helped pioneer the development of computers for large-scale calculations and led the computer divisio
 LEIGH--Samuel, died January 27, 2007 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of the late Jane Leigh. In New York, survived by son Steven and his wife Cindie, daughter Nancy Leigh and husband Tom Vos, grandchildren Casey, Jordan, Brian and sister-in-law Sola Lee Kaye. Born March 5, 1923 his life 
 MALI--Frederick Johnston. Passed away peacefully at home surrounded by family and friends February 1, 2007. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Lucretia Obolensky. Fred was born October 5, 1930, in New York City and educated at Buckley, Groton, Yale, and Harvard Business School, where h
 MENOTTI--Gian Carlo, New York City Opera mourns the passing of one of the most eminent figures of 20th-century American opera and a respected City Opera company member from 1948-1975. We are proud to have presented 10 of his operas (more than those of any composer other than Handel), includ
 METH--Arnold David, 83, of Boca Raton, FL, died suddenly on January 31, 2007. Beloved husband of Elaine, loving father of Richard Meth (Melissa) and Deborah Fleitz (David) and the late Stephen Meth (Dorothy). Dear grandfather of Michelle, Rachel and Justin. Also survived by stepdaughters Bo
 REHAGE--Kenneth J., 96, of New Brunswick, NJ, Professor Emeritus of Education at the University of Chicago, died January 31, 2007. He will be deeply missed by his wife Laurel; his children Joan, David, and Larry; his five grandchildren and one great-grandchild; and all who were lucky enough
 RIVERA--Gilbert, The Trustees, Staff and Auxiliary of Brooklyn Botanic Garden mourn the passing of our dear friend and Trustee Gilbert Rivera for the past nine years, Gilbert brought his broad experience and good humor to bear on the Garden's affairs. His love of the Garden and of Brooklyn 
 ROSENBLUM--Jason, on February 1, 2007, formerly of Valley Stream, L.I. and Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Barbara for 59 years. Loving father of Sheila and Paul Ornstein, Richard and Roseanne Rosenblum, Adam and Jill Rosenblum, Jill Rosenblum-Silber and the Late Andrew Rosenblum. Adoring 
 SOMMER--Robert Charles, born Bronx, NY, June 24, 1926, died New York, NY, January 30, 2007. Bob was a notorious Upper West Side curmudgeon who graduated from Townsend Harris High School, CUNY (BS) and the Henry Krumb School of Mines at Columbia University (MS). He served in the US Army duri
 URKEN--Jerome A., of Langhorne, Pennsylvania, formerly of Bordentown, NJ, passed away on February 2, 2007. Jerome was the loving husband of Marilyn Urken, an adoring father of Joan Zimmett (Mark), Gail Geronemus (Roy), and Mark Urken (Laura), a proud grandfather of Nora Zimmett Kravis (Rand
 WIPPERN--Ronald F., Ph.D. died on January 31, 2007 at his home in Napa, California after a prolonged illness. He was 73. Mr. Wippern was a consultant who lectured widely on the topics of valuation, corporate finance, strategy, and derivatives. He was a tenured Professor of Finance at the Gr
 HIRSCHTRITT--Ethel. The partners and staff of Tannenbaum Helpern Syracuse & Hirschtritt extend their deepest condolences to our esteemed Managing Partner, Joel Hirschtritt, and his family on the passing of his beloved mother.       
 WEINSTEIN--Wallace. A wonderful, beautiful man, full of life and laughter. Everyone loved him. Ellen and Bill Blair $(6$)WEINSTEIN--Wallace L. Beloved husband of Ellie (Eleanor) for 5O years. Father of Robert, Amy, and Daniel Weinstein. Adoring grandpa of Jennifer, Deborah, Michael,
 Jules Olitski, a painter and sculptor who became a widely admired and controversial member of the second generation of American abstract artists, died yesterday in New York. He was 84 and lived in Islamorada, Fla., and Meredith, N.H. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Lauren Ol
 deTOLEDANO--Ralph on February 3rd, 2007; writer, poet, newspaperman. Survived by his brother, Edward Toledano, sister, Gladys Braunschvig, sons, James and Paul and grandchildren, Michael Toledano, and Gwen Alcock. Services at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Tuesday 9:45a
 DOMSKY--Myron, age 69, passed away suddenly at home on February 2, 2007. Beloved husband of the late beautiful Barbara, loving father of William and Doug, adoring grandfather of Brette, and also survived by his sister Linda, father-in-law Bill Saccente and family, and daughter-in-law Jolie.
 DRATT--Charles, on February 2, 2007. Born April 2, 1918, he was a long time resident of Riverdale and beloved husband of Beatrice Dratt for 64 years. He is also survived by three children, Arnold, Sherry and Jude, his grandchildren, Tara, Andrew and Jessica, and his great-graandchildren, Jo
 HOBBS--John A., age 90, formerly of Floral Park, NY died on February 3, in Mount Kisco, NY. He was a former trial attorney with Continental Insurance Company. Claire, his beloved wife of 40 years, predeceased him in 1983. John is survived by his loving children; Mary Riechers of Katonah, NY
 KRAMER--Howard. Our deepest sympathy to loving wife, Terri, mother Sally, brothers David, Fred. His sudden passing is a shock to all. Hopefully loving memories will be of comfort at this time. Marcia & Stanley Winikoff & Family       
 KRASNOFF -Abraham Long Island University and its Tilles Center mourn the passing of former University Chairman of the Board, Abe Krasnoff. A steadfast and caring leader, and a generous benefactor, his commitment to and appreciation for higher education were hallmarks of his service to this 
 MALI--Frederick Johnston. Passed away peacefully at home surrounded by family and friends February 1, 2007. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, H.S.H. Princess Lucretia Obolensky. Fred was born October 5, 1930, in New York City and educated at Buckley, Groton, Yale, and Harvard Business
 PETROSKY--Charles Theodore, 85, WWII veteran of the 4th Division Marines died peacefully in his Bridgewater, New Jersey home on Saturday February 3, 2007 surrounded by his family. Born Thaddeus Pietrzykowski in Central City Pennsylvania in 1921. Mr. Petrosky served in the Pacific Theater as
 SHERAN--Peter David, age 41, CPA, died suddenly Saturday, February 3, 2007. Beloved husband of Jane Barasch and adoring father of Samantha Sheran. Loving son of Stanley Sheran and Rosalie Aronoff and devoted stepson of Nancy Idaka. L oving brother of Doctor Michael Sheran and Eric Stewart a
 TOLEDANO--Ralph. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 VAN ESSEN--Hans, 80, a perfumer and retired UniLever Vice President for Fragrance Development Worldwide, died at his home in Miami on January 28. In 1999, Mr. Van Essen was honored with a Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Society of Perfumers. He is survived by his wife Ingeborg,
 Roy Kuhlman, whose jazzlike improvisational paintings and graphics for Grove Press books in the 1950s and '60s introduced an Abstract Expressionist style to graphic design, died in Mesa, Ariz. He was 83. Although he had Alzheimer's disease for several years, the cause of death was p
 George Becker, who at 15 literally followed his father's footsteps into a steel mill in his Illinois hometown and rose to become the sixth president of the United Steelworkers union, died on Saturday at his home in Gibsonia, Pa. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, his son Greg
 Hans Wegner, whose Danish Modern furniture -- most famously his chairs -- helped change the course of design history in the 1950s and '60s by sanding modernism's sharp edges and giving aesthetes a comfortable seat, died on Jan. 26 in Copenhagen. He was 92. His death was confirmed by
 COHEN--Richard Warren, died at age 81, the victim of a hit and run driver in Scottsdale, AZ. He is survived by his wife, Connie, of 41 years; his children Daniel, Lisa Lowy (David), and stepson Keith Frankl (Carolyn); grandchildren Andrew, Paige, and Jacob. A native New Yorker, he graduated
 COVINO--Charles. Manhattan College mourns the passing of Charles P. Covino, Class of 1950, devoted alumnus and generous benefactor of the College. His legacy lives on through his establishment of The Covino Room, a collection of life achievements as inventor and athlete, and a virtual learn
 DRATT--Charles, on February 2, 2007. Born April 2, 1918, he was a long time resident of Riverdale and beloved husband of Beatrice Dratt for 64 years. He is also survived by three children, Arnold, Sherry and Jude, his grandchildren, Tara, Andrew and Jessica, and his great-graandchildren, Jo
 GRIMES--Charles Livingston, of Chadds Ford, PA, died on February 5th of pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Jane Gillespie Brown Grimes, his step-children, Ames Brown, James Schwarz and Serena Larson, his sisters Arline Grimes Heimert and Lucy Lee Grimes Evans and six nieces and 
 HOCKER--Lon Jr., of Woods Hole MA, a lawyer and WWII Navy commander, at home on January 31, at 96. Survivors include: his wife of nearly 70 years, Esther Sands Hocker; a daughter, Priscilla Hocker Claman, of Weston MA; a son, Lon Hocker III, of Hawaii; five grandchildren and 12 great-grandc
 KRASNOFF--Abraham. Long Island Community Foundation advisory board and staff mourn the loss of Abraham Krasnoff, immediate past chairman, generous donor, wise, compassionate, strategic sage, and dear friend. Abe Krasnoff was an extraordinary philanthropist, distributing millions of dollars 
 MENOTTI--Gian Carlo, 95, composer, died peacefully in Monte Carlo, on the eve of the production of his opera ''The Medium'' directed by his adored son, Francis. Deeply loved father and most loving grandfather to Claudio and Cosimo. Those wishing to attend, his funeral will take place at the
 OLITSKI--Jules. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt. $(6$)OLITSKI--Jules. (March 27, 1922-February 4, 2007). Each of us at the Knoedler Gallery deeply mourns the loss of Jules Olitski. A giant o
 RIVERA--Gilbert. The officers, Board of Directors, staff and members of the Subcontractors Trade Association (STA) deeply mourn the untimely passing of Gilbert Rivera, board member, a great industry leader and a good friend to all. We will sorely miss his support and counsel.       
 GOLEMBIOVSKY--George, of Scarsdale, NY, on February 4, 2007. A proud, strong, generous and kind man, George was a role model and an inspiration to many. A man who stood by his values and gave of his friendship unconditionally. He faced life's challenges with courage. Beloved and most precio
 Ralph de Toledano, a news magazine editor, syndicated columnist and author of 25 books who was best known for his friendship with Richard M. Nixon and his passionate embrace of the conservative cause, died on Feb. 3 in Washington. He was 90. His death was announced by his nephew Dav
 David W. Denton, once the third-ranking prosecutor in the office of the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, died Monday. He was 57. The cause was brain cancer, said his wife, Judge Reena Raggi of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.   
 Frankie Laine, a singer who achieved enormous popularity in the 1940s and 50s with a robust voice and a string of hits including ''That's My Desire,'' ''Mule Train,'' ''Ghost Riders in the Sky'' and ''Jezebel,'' died on Tuesday in San Diego. He was 93. The cause was cardiovascular d
 Lew Burdette, the Milwaukee Braves' right-hander who beat the Yankees three times in the 1957 World Series, twice on shutouts, in one of the most dominant pitching performances in baseball's postseason history, died yesterday in Winter Garden, Fla. He was 80. His death was announced
 M. Lamar Muse, the first president of Southwest Airlines and a pioneer of airline deregulation, died Monday in Dallas. He was 86. His family announced his death. He told friends in an e-mail message recently that he had ''fast growth cancer.'' Mr. Muse became president of So
 ABELES--Julius - Beloved husband of Anne. Devoted father/father-in-law of John and Nancy (nee Lieberman), Susan and Paul Werner, and Richard and Jill (nee Kahn). Doting grandfather of Julia, Rachel and Lauren Abeles and Hannah, Anne and Charlotte Werner. Loving uncle of Ralph Kreitzman and 
 BARDUSCH--William E., Jr., of Madison, NJ, on Saturday, February 3, 2007 at Overlook Hospital in Summit. Born in Mt. Vernon, NY he lived in Maplewood before moving to Madison forty years ago. William graduated from Princeton University in 1939 and Columbia Law School in the Class of 1941. H
 BARRETT--Martin R., 74, of Sherman, CT, died on Monday, February 5, at the New Milford, CT, Health and Rehab Center, from complications of a stroke. He was born in Mt. Vernon, NY, January 14, 1933. An economist, he worked at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as chief of the Foreign Resea
 COHEN--Richard Warren. We mourn the untimely loss of our neighbor and long-time member of the 1125 Park Avenue Corporation Board of Directors. We will miss Richard Cohen's incisive comments at the corporation's Annual Meetings. We send condolences to his wife, Constance, and to his family. 
 DENTON--David. The trustees, officers and members of the Federal Bar Council are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of David Denton, husband of our colleague and friend the Hon. Reena Raggi, Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. David's friendship and cour
 DUNN--William T., Jr., died on February 5, 2007, in Hobe Sound, FL. Mr. Dunn was born October 7, 1920, in NYC, and grew up in Great Neck, NY. He graduated from Cornell University in May 1943. He served as a first lieutenant in the US Army Field Artillery during world War II, in the European
 FISCHER--George, on February 3, 2007, at the age of 87. Devoted husband of the late Betty; beloved father of Alice, Kenny, Peter and Susan; adoring grandfather of Micah, Yarden, Joshua and Jessica. George was a lover and contributer to the arts, and a champion of social justice. His love, g
 GIBBONS-NEFF--Mitch, 65, noted yachtsman. Mitchell Chance Gibbons-Neff, of Rowayton, CT, for many years President of Sparkman & Stephens, the naval architecture and yacht brokerage firm based in New York, died on February 4, 2007. He was 65. His death, at a Boston hospital, was caused by co
 GRIMES--Charles Livingston, of Chadds Ford, PA, died on February 5th of pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Jane Gillespie Brown Grimes, his step-children, Ames Brown, James Schwarz and Serena Larson, his sisters Arline Grimes Heimert and Lucy Lee Grimes Evans and six nieces and 
 JANOVER--Sam. Sutton Place Synagogue records with deep sadness the passing of our longtime congregant and friend. His cheerfulness and good spirit will be sorely missed. We profoundly appreciate his sharing Harriet's time with us. Our deep sympathies go to his children, Robin, Neil (Debbi),
 KRASNOFF--Abe. The Board and Members of the Arts-InContext Education Foundation are deeply saddened by the death of our co-founder Abe Krasnoff. We shall miss his guiding spirit, encouragement, and sage advice. Our thoughts are with Julienne and his family. Dr. Alice Mary Hilton, President,
 MALI--Frederick Johnston. Passed away peacefully at home surrounded by family and friends February 1, 2007. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, H.S.H. Princess Lucretia Obolensky. Fred was born October 5, 1930, in New York City and educated at Buckley, Groton, Yale, and Harvard Business
 MURPHY--James Slater, M.D. ''Robin'' died Monday, February 5th, peacefully at his home in Deep River, CT, after a long struggle with cancer. He was 85. He leaves his wife of 43 years, Victoria; his beloved children, James B. Murphy II of East Haddam, CT; Wendy Bickford and Carol Lyden of Ma
 OLITSKI--Jules. Gallery Camino Real is deeply saddened by the death of Jules Olitski, an iconic artist of the twentieth century and a man beloved by all who knew him. We wish to extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Marjorie Margolis Jo Mett Kimberly Margolis $(6$)OLITSKI--Jule
 OSTERMAN--Leslie (nee May), on February 5th, after a long, courageous battle with cancer. Loving wife of Scott; devoted and cherished mother of Reed and Aimee; wonderful daughter of the late Roz May and Lynn and Eric May; and dear daughterin-law of Sandy and Steve Osterman; and adored siste
 PLIMPTON--Calvin H., M.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Dr. Calvin H. Plimpton, President of SUNY Downstate from 1971 until 1979. Dr. Plimpton facilitated the growth of key departments and divisions into internationally recognized academic and clinical se
 REIZEN--Norman, 76, Independent Building Contractor and Consultant of North Arlington, NJ (formerly of New York), died February 5, 2007. Surviving are his wife, Bozenka; five children, two stepchildren and six grandchildren. Memorial service, Thursday, February 8, at 12 noon, at the Parow F
 SCHOENFIELD--Eli D., partner, McLaughlin & Stern, LLP. Loving husband of Roberta, devoted father of Eric, Marc and Sam, and delighted grandfather of Ian and Benjamin, passed away on February 5. Services: Wednesday, February 7, 11:00 am at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave. Co
 ZAKIN--Albert, in his 100th year, died peacefully at his home in Palm Beach on February 5, 2007. He is survived by his loving wife of 65 years, Bernice, his adoring children, Nancy (Jeffrey) Lane and Kenneth (Barbi), cherished grandchildren David (Susan) Lane, Kenny (Alyson) Lane, Debbie (M
 GOLEMBIOVSKY--George, of Scarsdale, NY, on February 4, 2007. A proud, strong, generous and kind man, George was a role model and an inspiration to many. A man who stood by his values and gave of his friendship unconditionally. He faced life's challenges with courage. Beloved and most precio
 MENOTTI--Gian Carlo. G. Schirmer mourns the death of Gian Carlo Menotti, beloved composer, colleague, and friend. His music, including many of the most memorable operas of the last century, touched the lives and hearts of thousands. Our thoughts go out to his son, Francis, and family.      
 Alan G. MacDiarmid, who shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2000 for the discovery of plastics that conduct electricity like metals, died yesterday at the age of 79. He died after a fall down stairs in his home in the Drexel Hill suburb of Philadelphia while rushing to catch a fl
 Bradley Krause, who by raising his hand in his college graphics arts class became a founding partner of Kinko's, the office supply and printing company, died on Jan. 24 near his home in Cutchogue, N.Y. He was 58. The cause was cancer, his wife, Stuie, said. Mr. Krause was a 
 Maj. Gen. Ellis W. Williamson, who led the first Army combat troops into South Vietnam, died on Jan. 28 in Arlington, Va. He was 88. Jean O'Neil, a friend of the family, announced the death. General Williamson participated in the D-Day landings in Normandy in World War II an
 Leon J. Thal, a leading researcher on drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, died on Saturday in a plane crash near Borrego Springs, Calif. He was 62. He had been chairman of the neurosciences department at the University of California, San Diego, since 1993
 ABELES--Julius - Beloved husband of Anne. Devoted father/father-in-law of John and Nancy (nee Lieberman), Susan and Paul Werner, and Richard and Jill (nee Kahn). Doting grandfather of Julia, Rachel and Lauren Abeles and Hannah, Anne and Charlotte Werner. Loving uncle of Ralph Kreitzman and 
 COHEN--Richard W., The Friends of P.S. 169 mourn the death of Richard W. Cohen, husband of our founder and good friend, Connie. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire family. $(6$)COHEN--Richard W. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to 
 DENTON--David. The former law clerks of United States District Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon, and the recipients of MacMahon Fellowships, extend heartfelt condolences and sympathy to Dave's family. We will greatly miss the warmth and wisdom of our colleague and friend. $(6$)DENTON--David.
 DUNN--William T., on February 5, 2007, in Hobe Sound, FL. He is survived by his wife Laura, two daughters, Cassandra Dunn and Linda Garnett, a son William T. Dunn III, and four grandchildren. He was predeceased by another son, Peter Franklin Dunn, in March 1962.       
 JUNKER--David S., a retired employee for American Home Products, a long-time area resident and a former resident of Scarsdale, NY, died Monday, February 5th at St. Lukes Hospital, New York. He was 89. The son of Harold Junker and Esther Seguin Junker Tripp, he was born on February 21, 1917,
 MAZUR--Joseph G. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Assoc. Rabbi $(6$)MAZUR--Joseph G., a lifelong resident of White Plain
 NEMHAUSER--Leonard Eric. Decorated WWII Vet, avid Rutgers football fan. Died at Willow Creek Rehabilitation Center in Somerset. Leonard Eric Nemhauser, formerly of Edison and Monroe Township, NJ, died on Tuesday, February 6, after a long illness. Born in the Bronx, NY on February 8, 1924. H
 OLITSKI--Jules. (March 27, 1922-February 4, 2007). Each of us at the Knoedler Gallery deeply mourns the loss of Jules Olitski. A giant of American abstract painting, a giant of a man-evermore a bright and shining light. Our heartfelt sympathy to his loving family. Ann Freedman, President Kn
 PLIMPTON--Calvin H. M.D. The Board of Trustees of the American University of Beirut and members of the AUB community note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend and tenth president, Calvin H. Plimpton. Dr. Plimpton served as the universitys president from 1984 to 1987, during one
 ZAKIN--Albert. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Albert Zakin, adored father of Board member Nancy Lane and father-in-law of our esteemed colleague Barbi Zakin. Our hearts and prayers are with them, their spouses Jeffrey and Kenny and the entire Zakin and Lane families.
 GOLEMBIOVSKY--George, of Scarsdale, NY, on February 4, 2007. A proud, strong, generous and kind man, George was a role model and an inspiration to many. A man who stood by his values and gave of his friendship unconditionally. He faced life's challenges with courage. Beloved and most precio
 Ken Kennedy, a Rice University computer scientist whose software design work paved the way for the broad scientific and engineering use of modern supercomputers, died Wednesday in Houston. He was 61. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Jade Boyd, a spokesman for t
 Max Lanier, a leading left-handed pitcher of the early 1940s with the St. Louis Cardinals who was later barred from organized baseball for jumping to the Mexican League, prompting him to challenge baseball's reserve clause in federal court, died Jan. 30 in Dunellon, Fla. He was 91. 
 Nelson W. Polsby, who marshaled intellectual rigor, lucid writing and a knack for drawing striking lessons from real-life observation in his enduring studies of Congress and the presidency, died on Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 72. The cause was complications of con
 ALBERT--Martin. The 1963 East Club mourns the passing of our esteemed friend, Martin Albert. He led a full, rich life defined by true love, friendship, strong family bonds and a magnitude of wisdom. $(6$)ALBERT--Martin, beloved husband of Evelyn. Devoted father of Sharon and Alan Hy
 BALTON--Charles (Ibo) D. Of Harlem, New York, Died February 6, 2007. He is survived by his mother Marion Van Allen, son Eddie, five grandchildren, one great-grandchild, two brothers, devoted cousins, and other relatives and friends. The memorial for Ibo is Saturday, the 10th at 3:30 pm at N
 BLATT--Barry. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, New York, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member Barry Blatt. He will be sorely missed.       
 DENTON--David. His friends and colleagues who served with him in the office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York from 1980-1983 mourn the death of an outstanding lawyer and public servant. He was a cherished friend and we will miss him. Our prayers and thought
 DESSAU--Saul (Salek). Haulocaust survivor. The Meiterman family mourns the passing of Saul Dessau. Adored brother of Robert and to the Dessau family, our hearts and prayers are with them. $(6$)DESSAU--Saul. Beloved brother of Robert, sister-inlaws, Grace and Beata, nephew Howard and
 FRIES--Jerome E. (Jack), 103 died Tuesday, February 6th in Boca Raton, Florida. Previously a resident of Brooklyn and Manhattan Beach, NY for 93 years. Beloved husband of 70 years to Sophia (deceased), father to Stuart and Ellie, Joseph and Fredi Ann, Arthur and Cindy. Grandfather to Jolie,
 HOCHMAN--Abraham Albert (the Boomer), 95, of Brooklyn, NY, died peacefully in his home on Wednesday night, February 7, 2007. He was born in Lublin, Poland, on April 14, 1911, and immigrated with his family to New York at age 1. After graduating from Seward Park High School, on the Lower Eas
 KORNFELD--Peter M.D., 81, died on February 2, in Palo Alto, CA. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Carol; his children Robert (Carol) and Jane Bessin (Bob); grandchildren Julie, Jason, David and Jack. He was Clinical Professor of Medicine at Stanford University, formerly Clinical Profe
 LIST--Austin, 84, February 3rd, died peacefully in Scottsdale, AZ. Born in Fall River, MA; class of Tabor Academy 1939, Bowdoin College class of 1945. Had a long successful business career in New York City. Predeceased by his wife Lois, brother Kenneth, survived by children Dale and Jay Kap
 MALCHIN--Jean L. 1915-2007. Memorial Monday, February 12, 2007, at 6:00PM at First Presbyterian, 12 West 12th Street. He will be missed.       
 MILLER--Julius, beloved husband of Miriam Miller, passed away on February 5th, 2007. He is survived by his children Alan, Diane and Larry, and his grandchildren Harry, Josie, Danielle, Abraham, Jonas, Henry, Ben and Sam. He was greatly loved, and will be deeply missed.       
 URKEN--Jerome A. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the Leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, and with the physicians and staff in the Continuum Cancer Centers of New York (CCCNY) in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Jerome A. Urken, belov
 STEPHENSON--Garrick C. Renowned ''taste arbiter'' in the word of art and antiques, died in his sleep in New York on Saturday, February 3, 2007, after a long illness. Garrick was born in 1927 to Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Stephenson a prominent Cincinnati family and was the nephew of Briggs Cunning
 RILEY--Bob. 5/31/55 -2/9/06. In loving memory of a compassionate father, husband and musician. Bob spent nearly 30 years playing drums, guitar, percussion, and synthesizer while producing, writing and sound designing on the NYC music scene. Bob spent his career playing and recording with ar
 Hank Bauer, a bruising pipe fitter and decorated combat veteran who became an All-Star outfielder for the Yankees, playing in nine World Series, and who later managed the Baltimore Orioles to a stunning Series victory, died yesterday in Shawnee Mission, Kan. He was 84. The cause was
 Ian Richardson, the Scottish film, television and stage actor who was a major figure at the Royal Shakespeare Company before gaining international fame for his television portrayal of a deliciously villainous politician, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 72. His agent, Je
 BOSNIAK--Stephen. We mourn the unexpected passing of our friend, Dr. Stephen Bosniak on Thursday, February 8, 2007. His dedication to his profession and his love for the written word will carry on his legacy through his extensive publications. The enormous loss of his friendship and warmth 
 DOBKIN--Paul S., 71, of New York City and Washington, CT. Died on February 8, 2007. Son of the late Celia and Herman J. Dobkin. Much loved husband of Josephine and loving and proud father to his son, Matthew. Dear brother of Suzanne Barnett. He will be remembered by treasured cousins and fr
 GELLER--Mel. You will always be our Mels. You were one of a kind. Thank you for being so special. Lisa, Charlie, Donna, Jonny, Lauren, Jeffrey, Andrew, and Nicole $(6$)GELLER--Mel. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our dear friend, Mel
 KRAMER--Saul. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club records with profound sorrow the passing of Saul Kramer, a member of the Club for 67 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his family and to his friends. Jeffrey I. Citron, President Lawrence Handelsman, Secretary   
 KRET--Jacob. The Jewish Theological Seminary mourns the passing of Rabbi Jacob Kret, a beloved tutor, spiritual guide, and mentor to many students, now rabbis, for a quarter of a century. His kindness, wisdom, and menshlikhkayt will be missed. May his family be comforted among the mourners 
 LEWINTER--Robert (Bob), of River Vale, formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ. Beloved son of Mortimer and Jeanne Lewinter. Cherished brother of Beth and Lizz. Dearest friend of Patrick Passero, devoted best friend of Dominic Mingione, whom he loved like a brother. Bob had three other very ''special'' f
 George Sadek, a former dean of the Cooper Union School of Art in Manhattan and founder of its Center for Design and Typography, who transformed graphic design education by having students work on actual projects for nonprofit institutions, died on Monday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was
 Michael Hurson, a New York-based artist whose drawings and paintings imbued human and inanimate subjects alike with a stylish caricatural energy, died on Jan. 29 in Nyack, N.Y.. He was 65 and lived in Garnerville, N.Y. He died of a heart attack hours after entering Nyack Hospital co
 BERMAN--Morris. Beloved husband of Ruth, father of Jerrold, brother of William. February 8. He will be missed by many.       
 BLOOSTEIN--Allan J. The partners and staff of Joel Isaacson & Co., Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and long term client. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Sally, children Oren, Jon, and Ellen. We will miss his special humor and appreciate his guidan
 BROOKS--Jerome Bernard, Professor of English and Afro - American Literature, died at age 74, in New York, on January 31, 2007. He was Professor Emeritus, City College of New York, and a distinguished educator and scholar. He will be mourned by family, friends, colleagues, and students.     
 CARRARA--Eugene S. Esquire, age 87, of Forest Hills, NY, died Friday at Virtua Health and Rehab Center in Berlin, NJ. He was born May 30, 1919 in Toby, PA. Son of the late Albert and Lena (Magistrelli) Carrara. He had been employed by Air France as a Labor Relations Attorney for many years.
 COHEN--Julian. We at the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts have lost a dear friend and a remarkable gentleman who was truly a champion of the arts and humanity. As a Founder and board member since 1991, Julian Cohen, for whom the Kravis Centers Cohen Pavilion is named, applied his singu
 DOBKIN--Paul S., 71, of New York City and Washington, CT. Died on February 8, 2007. Son of the late Celia and Herman J. Dobkin. Much loved husband of Josephine and loving and proud father to his son, Matthew. Dear brother of Suzanne Barnett. He will be remembered by treasured cousins and fr
 DODGE--Cleveland E. (Clee) Jr., on Sunday, January 28, in Bennington, Vermont, after a long struggle with prostate cancer. He was 84. Born on March 7, 1922, in Riverdale, New York, Mr. Dodge was the son of Cleveland E. and Pauline Morgan Dodge. He was the great-grandson William E. Dodge, fo
 FRIES--Jerome E. (Jack), 103 died Tuesday, February 6th in Boca Raton, Florida. Previously a resident of Brooklyn and Manhattan Beach, NY for 93 years. Beloved husband of 70 years to Sophia (deceased), father to Stuart and Ellie, Joseph and Fredi Ann, Arthur and Cindy. Grandfather to Jolie,
 GASTMANN--Albert L. E. Professor of Political Science, Emeritus, Trinity College, died on February 1st, 2007, peacefully in his sleep, at his home in Hartford, Connecticut. Dr. Gastmann was born in Arnhem, Netherlands, on October 28th, 1919, the son of Maria Petronella Uhlenbeck and Lodewij
 GOLDFEDER--Michael. Beloved husband of Henrietta, father of Judy and Carol and grandfather of Steven; died on February 8, 2007. He will always be in our hearts and minds.       
 GREEN--Jack Peter, M.D., Ph.D. The faculty and staff of the Dorothy H. and Lewis Rosenstiel Department of Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, note with sadness the passing of Jack Peter Green, M.D., Ph.D,. Professor Emeritus. Dr. Green was the founding Cha
 GRIMES--Charles Livingston, of Chadds Ford, PA, died on February 5th of pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Jane Gillespie Brown Grimes, his step-children, Ames Brown, James Schwarz and Serena Larson, his sisters Arline Grimes Heimert and Lucy Lee Grimes Evans and six nieces and 
 KORNFELD--Peter M.D., 81, died on February 2, in Palo Alto, CA. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Carol; his children Robert (Carol) and Jane Bessin (Bob); grandchildren Julie, Jason, David and Jack. He was Clinical Professor of Medicine at Stanford University, formerly Clinical Profe
 KRAMER--Saul. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished and long-time member, Saul Kramer. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M.
 LEVINE--Kent, aka the Handsome Modest Man, erasable, unforgettable, passed away after a long illness on Cape Cod, February 4, 2007. He is lovingly remembered by his wife Wendy, children, David, Michael, Robin, Lauren and 11 grandchildren. Burial was held in Old North Cemetery, Truro MA. Mem
 LIST--Austin, 84, February 3rd, died peacefully in Scottsdale, AZ. Born in Fall River, MA; class of Tabor Academy 1939, Bowdoin College class of 1945. Had a long successful business career in New York City. Predeceased by his wife Lois, brother Kenneth, survived by children Dale and Jay Kap
 STANTON--Donald, age 79 on February 3, 2007. Adored husband of 59 years of Lorraine. Beloved father of Sheryl, Andrew, Wayne, Robyn and Eric Savitz. Grandpa of Hayley, Shawn, Jared, Jordan, Zachary, Joshua and Zoe. He will be deeply missed.       
 BRAUNSTEIN--Stephen N., he was my best friend and I will always keep him in my heart. Jill Gordon $(6$)BRAUNSTEIN--Stephen N. Our family was blessed to have him in our lives. We will always remember him as the most giving and loving friend. We will miss his kindness, his caring, his
 GETTINGER--Milton, M., M. D., This week marks the 5th anniversary of the death of Milton M. Gettinger, M.D., whos brief lifespan gave pleasure and comfort to his family, friends, and patients. Family of Milton M. Gettinger       
 VON HOENE--Bill, 52, of Storrs, CT and NYC, died suddenly on January 31st. Beloved son of Robert and Marie. Loyal brother to Bob, Lenore, Lois, Lorraine, Lorette and Linda. Dear friend, music maker, raconteur, lover, laugher, cook, lighthouse. Member of BMI Music Theater Lab and well respec
 BERNSTEIN--Dr. Leopold A., June 26, 1927 to February 11, 2006. MBA/CPA/Ph.D Professor of Accounting and Finance at Baruch College, Author of Financial Statement Analysis text books. Holocaustsurvivor, lover of nature and music. Devoted to his family, Husband of Cynthia, father of Dr. Debora
 Edmund C. Arnold, a journalist who in the 1950s altered the rigid layouts then common in American newspapers and introduced lively typography, influencing a generation of newspaper designers, died on Feb. 2 in Salem, Va. He was 93 and lived in Roanoke, Va. The cause was respiratory 
 Fred Mustard Stewart, a best-selling writer of popular novels, several of which were adapted for the screen, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74 and also lived in Washington, Conn. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan Stewart. Originally trained as a c
 Dr. Leonard Berg, a neurologist and top medical administrator at Washington University in St. Louis who helped design a leading test used to assess social functioning in patients with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, died on Jan. 15 in that city. He was 79. The cause
 Michael Shurtleff, for years a leading Broadway casting director and the author of an influential book about the audition process, died on Jan. 28 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 86. His death came after a series of health problems, including lung cancer, said Vance Walker, a lon
 BARBARIS--Harry, His warmth, will, and witt effected everyone he knew. Kathy and Ken Goodman       
 DOBKIN--Paul S., 71, of New York City and Washington, CT. Died on February 8, 2007. Son of the late Celia and Herman J. Dobkin. Much loved husband of Josephine and loving and proud father to his son, Matthew. Dear brother of Suzanne Barnett. He will be remembered by treasured cousins and fr
 GREENBERG--Joseph, died peacefully at home after a prolonged illness. Joseph was a beloved husband of Helene for 40 years and a loving father of Neal and Marc and daughter - in - law Renu, a grandfather of Riya and a great friend to many. He was a brother-in-law of Ted and Kathy Migdon and 
 LEATHERMAN--Arthur J., 90, of Delray Beach, Florida, and formerly of Roslyn, New York, died on February 9, 2007. Beloved husband of his late wife Adelaide, he will be deeply missed by his daughters Ronnie and Lois, sons-inlaw Russell and Greg, his grandson Jason and his wife Lisa, his great
 NOLAND--Emmit E., We mourn the death of our brother, uncle, and friend, Emmit E. Noland on Thursday, February 8th, 2007. Graveside services will be conducted by the Right Reverend Pratt, Rector of St. Agnes Episcopal Church, Franklin, North Carolina on Saturday February 17th at 11am, at the
 STEWART--Fred Mustard died of cancer, at his home, on February 7th. He was 74. Mr. Stewart was born in Anderson, Indiana. He was named after his great-grandfather, Daniel Mustard, a drummer boy in the Civil War who served at the battle of Vicksburg. An accomplished composer and musician, Mr
 Roger Bacon, a physicist and materials scientist whose enterprising studies of graphite and carbon fibers contributed to a revolution in the heat-resistant materials used in aircraft and satellites, died on Jan. 26 in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 80. The cause was leukemia, his family said
 Eddie Feigner, who for 60 years barnstormed the globe with his four-man softball team, hurling 100-mile-an-hour pitches that struck out Willie Mays and 141,516 other batters, died on Friday in Huntsville, Ala. He was 81. Last summer, Feigner (pronounced FAY-ner) sometimes rose from 
 Dr. Ivan Boszormenyi-Nagy, a psychiatrist who helped establish a powerful therapy for mental illness that brings patients' extended families into treatment as allies, died Jan. 28 at his home in Glenside, Pa. He was 86. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his wi
 Nat H. Hentel, a former State Supreme Court justice and an interim Queens district attorney in 1966, died Jan. 31 at his home in Tucson. He was 87. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Diana Klebanow Hentel. Mr. Hentel was appointed interim district attorney by 
 BARBARIS--Harry. His warmth, will, and wit touched everyone he knew. Kathy and Ken Goodman       
 BOSNIAK--Dr. Stephen. Stephen was a magical force in the world, approaching each day with joy and wonder. His life will remain an inspiration to all who were blessed to know him. The Creative Time family       
 BURRIS--Conrad Timothy. Brother Conrad Timothy Burris, F.S.C. The Board of Trustees and the entire Manhattan College community mourns the passing of Brother Conrad Timothy Burris, F.S.C., former dean of the College's school of engineering and founder of the chemical engineering department. 
 COHEN--Julian. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Julian Cohen and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Carol and other members of his family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 FRENCH--Joseph. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague Joseph French. A man of boundless energy and commitment, Joe faithfully served the Medical Center for 32 years as a senior vice president of the Board. As ch
 HALEY--Stephen Putney, died peacefully Sunday, February 11, 2007 at his home in Summit, New Jersey, surrounded by his family and friends. The cause was melanoma; he was 52 years old. Born in Rye, New York to the late George Henry Haley and Anne Coleman Haley, Stephen graduated from the Harv
 HOCHMAN--Eli. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 KAPLANSKY--Phillip ''Pinny''. The family and friends mourn the passing of Phillip Kaplansky of Flushing. Patriarch of the Kaplansky family, loving father, grandfather, great-grandfather and cousin. This caring, gentle son of the Lower East Side now joins his beloved wife Ruth and son Melvin
 KRAMER--Saul. On behalf of the Board of Directors, staff, volunteers, friends and supporters of MorseLife and the Marilyn & Stanley M. Katz Seniors Campus and the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County, we mourn the passing of our esteemed benefactor, colleague and friend Saul Kramer. Mr. K
 MA--Sho, a promising young artist coped with schizophrenia for years, died on Wednesday from a suicide at age 24. He was also a graphic designer, art critic, composer and top skateboarder. He is survived by his parents Mr. Ma Kelu and Ms. Bai Jing Sheng. Two Chinese artists immigrated to US
 POPPER--Robert. February 9 2007, Graduate of Bronx High School of Science, University of Wisconsin, Harvard Law School LLB, NY University LLM. Defense Attorney, NY Legal Aid Society. Assistant District Attorney under Frank Hogan. Associate with Seligson and Morris. Professor and Dean Emerit
 RENDAHL--Jack. 75, died Saturday, February 10th, 2007. He was a Career Foreign Service Officer in the U.S. Department of State and served as Deputy Chief of Mission to the U.S. Embassy in Dublin (1974-1978). Services will be held at Thomas McAfee Funeral Home, Downtown, Greenville, SC on Fe
 GIALLORENZI--Renato C., on February 11, 2007 of Riverdale at the age of 92. Survived by his wife of 61 years, Elvira R. (nee Paino); children Thomas and Frances R.; son-inlaw Andrea L. Mistri and granddaughter Alessandra L. Mistri. Reposing Wednesday 2-5 and 7-9 pm at Riverdaleon-Hudson Fun
 Bent Skovmand, a plant scientist who helped to create the ''doomsday vault,'' a massively fortified cavern to safeguard three million kinds of unique crop seeds against catastrophe, died Tuesday in Kavlinge, Sweden. He was 61. His wife, Eugenia, announced his death, The Associated P
 BARBARIS--Harry T., M.D. The administration, trustees, and staff of St. Francis Hospital, The Heart Center in Roslyn, New York, mourn the passing of Harry T. Barbaris, M.D., distinguished physician leader and beloved friend. Dr. Barbaris was a part of the institutional fabric of St. Francis
 CALDWELL--William Webster, III. Grace Church School, Brooklyn Heights, mourns the loss of William Caldwell. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Priscilla Vail Caldwell, a cherished former member of the Grace Church School Advisory Board, and daughters Olivia and Caroline. Hope N. Pr
 CAMPBELL--James R. died at home in Manhattan, on February 9, after a heroic battle with lung cancer. Beloved friend, respected colleague, treasured advisor and mentor to many. Beloved stepson of Hazel E. Campbell of Florence, Mississippi and brother of Margaret Jean Edwards of Vicksburg, Mi
 COTTER--Nicholas J., 88. Nicholas J. Cotter of Deerfield Beach, FL, and Madison, CT, entered eternal life on February 11th, 2007. He was born in New York City on March 7th, 1918. Son of the late James and Ellen O'Keeffe Cotter. Loving husband of the late Mary King Cotter and devoted father 
 DODGE--Cleveland E. (Clee) Jr. Teachers College, Columbia University, extends its sympathies to the family of Cleveland E. Dodge, the longtime philanthropist and industrialist who passed away in January. Through his decades of leadership of the Cleveland H. Dodge Foundation, established by 
 FISHMAN--Stanley I., M.D., FACP, 84, died at home in North Palm Beach, FL, on February 10th, 2007. Devoted husband of the late Betty. Loving father of Ellen and the late Bill. Dear brother of Mel, Sarabelle, Pat, and the late Bob. Proud uncle of many nieces and nephews. A generous man who t
 FRICK--Henry Clay II, Dr. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are saddened by the death of our long-time friend and Honorary Trustee, Dr. Henry Clay Frick, II. A Trustee since 1952, Clay was a member of several Committees including the Executive Committe
 GREEN--Corey Thandwa, was born on November 23, 1972, in Brooklyn, New York, to Cheryl D. Fells Davis and Morris H. Green. His untimely passing on February 10, 2007, at the age 34, occurred in his beloved community of Greenwich Village in New York City. Corey attended Fessenden School in Mas
 GREENBERG--Joseph. We mourn the loss of our dear brother-in-law and uncle Joe. We will miss him. Hermine, Sidney, Michelle, Andrew, David, Max, Sam, Melissa, and Matthew       
 JONES--James Robert, M.D., former Chairman and Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology at New York Medical College, died of cardiac arrest on February 12th, in Naples, FL, at the age of 72. The proud Brooklynite, and long time resident of Mendham, New Jersey, is survived by his wife
 KING--Robert John, of Mt. Crested Butte, CO, formerly of Mt. Kisco, NY, February 1, 2007, after a brief illness. Graduate of Amherst College, class of 1957, and Fordham University Business School (MBA). Bob was captain of Amherst's 1956 football team and earned Little All-American honors. B
 KOLATCH--Alfred J., on February 7, 2007. Rabbi, founder of Jonathan David Publishers, noted author of ''The Jewish Book of Why'' and many other titles. Laid to rest on February 8, 2007. Mourned by Thelma, Jonathan, David, Duan, Arthur, Helen and all those whose lives were touched by his kin
 MARZULLI--Jerry, February 12, 2007. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Chris and Jerry John, cherished grandfather of Max and Sadi, loving brother of Vincent and the late Bella. He was a veteran of WWII and Korea in both the Navy and Marine Corps who graduated from Pratt Institute. 
 MOSES--Campbell, M.D., Former Medical Director of the American Heart Association, noted medical researcher and professor of medical education, died February 11, at his home in Upper Saddle River, NJ, one day prior to his 90th birthday. Dr. Moses was a gifted teacher of medicine, committed t
 NACKENSON--Burton., M.D. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, and The Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine express our deepest sorrow over the death of our esteemed colleague,Dr. Burton Nackenson. We send our condolences to his partner Brenda, his chil
 SHAIN--Arthur, D.D.S., M.P.H., age 93, died peacefully on February 12, 2007, after a short illness. He is survived by his wife of 65 years, Elinor, his daughters Carol Romanello and Jo-Ann Shain, grandchildren Denise Adiletta, Paul Colman and Aliya Shain, great-grandchildren Matthew and Car
 TAN--Edward Tingho, 81, of North Miami, FL, beloved husband, father and grandfather, died on February 12, 2007 of cardiac arrest. Born in Beijing, China, he was engineer and graduate of Worcester Academy and Yale College (1945w). He lived in Hong Kong, Venezuela, Taiwan and New York. He is 
 Henry Clay Frick II, a physician, professor of medicine and former president of the board of the Frick Collection, the art museum in his family's stately former home on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, died on Friday at his home in Alpine, N.J. He was 87. The death was confirmed by his da
 BARBARIS--Harry T., M.D., On February 9th, 2007, of Sea Cliff, New York. Beloved husband of Maryjane, father of Sharon, Chrissy, and Amy. Adoring grandfather of Caitlin, Emma, Kelli, Jack, Annabelle, Connor, and Drew. Donations in his memory may be made to Harry T. Barbaris M.D. Memorial Fu
 BENEDIKT--Michael, Poet, critic, anthologist, former Poetry Editor of the Paris Review. After a prolonged illness, he died at home with his beloved partner of twentythree years, Laura Boss, at his side. Future memorial service to be announced. ''Poet Laureate of the Internet.'' Please visit
 CAMPBELL--James R. died at home in Manhattan, on February 9, after a heroic battle with lung cancer. Beloved friend, respected colleague, treasured advisor and mentor to many. Beloved stepson of Hazel E. Campbell of Florence, Mississippi and brother of Margaret Jean Edwards of Vicksburg, Mi
 CHARLTON--Fred, of Gramercy Park and Ocean Beach, died February 13, 2007, at the age of 88. His wife Edith and their children, Craig, Jill, Douglas and Cathy, and their grandchildren, Lizzie, Samantha, Jackie, Oliver, Julia, Jaimie, Jonathan, Amanda and Courtney, will always have loving mem
 CLOSE--F. Alexander, who ran his own import-export firm in New York for 30 years before retiring to Connecticut and New Mexico, died at age 90 in San Francisco. Married for 50 years to Anne Whitmarsh, Alex is survived by two daughters, Lorraine Sniderman of Warwick and Alexandra Close of Sa
 DURNIN--Kevin, Former Director General of The Irish Tourist Office for North America, died February 5th, in San Francisco at the age of 92. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Ethelmary McDonnell. Funeral Mass will be held Friday, February 16 at 10 AM, St. Catherine of Sienna
 FRICK--Henry Clay II. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Frick Collection are deeply saddened by the death of our distinguished Emeritus President, grandson of our founder, and leader for more than 50 years, Henry Clay Frick II. Clay was elected to the Board in January 1953, was elected
 GORDON--Harold M., M.D., on February 14th, 2007, at 89 years of age. Beloved husband of 66 years to Annette Newman Gordon. Devoted father of Elizabeth (Neil) Lowenbraun, Margaret (Alan) Ritch, and James (Ann). Proud grandfather of Grace, Matthew, Holter and Neela, Devon and Brenna. He was t
 GREEN--Corey Thandwa. Was born on November 23, 1972, in Brooklyn, New York, to Cheryl D. Fells Davis and Morris H. Green. His untimely passing on February 10, 2007, at the age 34, occurred in his beloved community of Greenwich Village in New York City. Corey attended Fessenden School in Mas
 GREENBERG--Joseph. We mourn the loss of our dear brother-in-law and uncle Joe. We will miss him. Hermine, Sidney, Michelle, Andrew, Nicki, David, Max, Sam, Melissa, and Matthew       
 LOH--Rin Kyu. Mr. Rin Kyu Loh of Manhattan, NY, died on February 10, 2007, from complications following a cerebral aneurysm. He was 61 years old. Mr. Loh was born in Seoul, Korea and came to the United States when he was 16 years old. He graduated from the Breck School in Minneapolis, Minne
 MOSES--Campbell, M.D., The Board of Trustees of The Children's Aid Society extends heartfelt condolences to our Chief Executive Officer, C. Warren Pete Moses and his family on the passing of his father, Dr. Campbell Moses. Dr. Moses was a wonderful father and loving family man as well as a 
 SCHRANK--Marvin L.J., Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York sadly records the death of our devoted and long-time member, Marvin Schrank. A past president of the Temple's Men's Club, an active participant of the Music Committee, Marvin was involved in numerous aspects of Temple life.
 TAN--Edward Tingho, 81, of North Miami, FL, beloved husband, father and grandfather, died on February 12, 2007 of cardiac arrest. Born in Beijing, China, he was engineer and graduate of Worcester Academy and Yale College (1945w). He lived in Hong Kong, Venezuela, Taiwan and New York. He is 
 TARDERA--John E. Suddenly on February 13, 2007, of Port Washington. Beloved husband of Marybeth, loving father of MariaChristina, Gabriella, Olivia, Amelia and Daniella, cherished son of John Tardera and Marilyn Abruscato, brother of Patricia Roach and grandson of Emilia Abruscato. Partner 
 WILLIAMS--Robert (Rex), 89. Film and stage actor, painter and sculptor. He is survived by his five sons, Peter, Christopher, Patrick, Matthew, and Stephen.       
 ZIPPER--Jacob, on February 5, 2007, in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. Born April 29, 1910, in Zaboike, Galicia (Ukraine). Chazzan and rabbi of Congregation Ahavas Israel in Greenpoint from 1949 to 2007. Already as a young man, his wonderful voice earned him the title of Angel of Tarnopol. Having sur
 STEPHENSON--Garrick C. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Parrish Art Museum mourn the passing of their former Chairman of the Board, whose graciousness and passion for art touched all of us and greatly influenced the museum. The Parrish extends its deepest condolences to his wife, Clai
 Thomas E. Fairchild, a federal appeals court judge for four decades who tried unsuccessfully to unseat Senator Joseph McCarthy in 1952, died on Monday in Madison, Wis. He was 94. His death, at an assisted living facility, was announced by a grandson, Thomas Chase. Judge Fair
 Bruce M. Metzger, an eminent scholar and translator of the Bible who oversaw the publication of a widely used modern edition that eliminated all the thees and thous and many of the hes, died on Tuesday in Princeton, N.J. He was 93 and a longtime Princeton resident. The cause was res
 Mordkhe Schaechter, a leading Yiddish linguist who spent a lifetime studying, standardizing and teaching the language, died yesterday in the Bronx. He was 79 and lived in Yonkers. His death, at Montefiore Medical Center, followed a long illness, his daughter Rukhl Schaechter said.  
 CHARLTON--Fred. We were saddened to read of the passing of Fred. He was my teacher at CCNY, Baruch Division, my customer at Millmar Paper and my friend. His smile was his signature, he was always the encourager. Our lunches at the Gramercy Park Hotel were always positive thoughts, he would 
 FRICK--Henry Clay, II. The Board and staff of Fiduciary Trust Company International are saddened by the death of Dr. Henry Clay Frick II, a devoted friend of Fiduciary Trust who served as a director of the company from 1970-1991. In addition to his valued contributions to the Fiduciary Trus
 GREENBERG--Joseph. We mourn the loss of our dear brother-in-law and uncle Joe. We will miss him. Hermine, Sidney, Michelle, Andrew, Nicki, David, Max, Sam, Melissa, and Matthew       
 HOFFMAN--Dr. George. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. George Hoffman, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Marcelle and family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club David Simon, President Steve Tolman, Secretary       
 JONES--James R., New York Medical College mourns the loss of our esteemed former colleague, James R. Jones, M.D., Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, who served as chairman of the department from 1987 to 2000. His wise leadership and dedication to teaching and patient care will
 KASSEN--Julian. The Board of Trustees of LREI (Little Red School House & Elisabeth Irwin High School) extends heartfelt condolences to our Director of School, Philip Kassen, and his family on the passing of his father, Dr. Julian Kassen. Dr. Kassen was a wonderful father and grandfather, as
 KRET--Rabbi Jacob. The officers and members of the Old Broadway Synagogue announce with profound sadness the death on February 7, 2007 of our beloved teacher, spiritual leader, and mentor, Rabbi Jacob Kret, of blessed memory. Rabbi Kret grew up in Poland where he attended the Bialystoker Ye
 NESSEL--Melvin B., a prominent businessman and philanthropist, died on February 15, 2007. He lived in Palm Beach and Boston. His death came after a series of health issues, including respiratory problems. Born in Gainesville, Georgia on August 24, 1919, the trajectory of Mel's life was wort
 RAM--Irving M. Born on January 17, 1921, was a devoted husband, father, grandfather, and great-grandfather. He passed away on February 13th at his home in Boca Raton, Florida. He is survived by his wife Betty, his three children from his first marriage to Ruth Ram who died in 1987: Carol (H
 READER--Arthur J. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Arthur J. Reader. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Lillie and their family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
 RICHARD--Peter Lanman, of Sloatsburg, NY, beloved husband and father, died suddenly on February 14, 2007 at his winter home in Camden, South Carolina. He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Virginia, his sons Zachary and Travis and daughter Cecily, his parents Jane and Harold V.B. Richard 
 SCHWARTZ--Albert M. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend, devoted colleague and beloved benefactor, Albert M. Schwartz, M.D., a member of the Beth Israel surgical staff for nearly six decades until his retirement in 1989. Dr. 
 TAN--Edward Tingho, 81, of North Miami, FL, beloved husband, father and grandfather, died on February 12, 2007 of cardiac arrest. Born in Beijing, China, he was engineer and graduate of Worcester Academy and Yale College (1945w). He lived in Hong Kong, Venezuela, Taiwan and New York. He is 
 MELTZER--Elton, remembered with ever lasting love and treasured memories by his adoring wife, children, grandchildren and greatgranddaughter       
 Walter Sondheim Jr., a longtime Baltimore civic leader who played crucial roles in desegregating the city's schools and redeveloping its downtown, died yesterday in Baltimore. He was 98. The cause was pneumonia, said Dan Collins, a spokesman for Mercy Medical Center. Mr. Son
 Gordon Wright, a conductor who championed obscure composers and made music across the chilly climes of Alaska as founder of the Arctic Chamber Orchestra, was found dead on Wednesday on the porch of his cabin in Indian, Alaska. He was 72. His body was discovered after he failed to ar
 JAFFE--Edwin. The Board and Staff of the Mahaiwe Performing Arts Center mourn the passing of Ed Jaffe and send our deepest sympathies to Lola Jaffe, his wife and our Founding President and Chair, and their family. Ed was a visionary and generous benefactor to numerous organizations in Berks
 MARTIN--Peter, of New York City, who for over thirty years developed the skills of young musicians in the Freeport School System and brought the joy of music to countless students, died on February 15, 2007, after a 10 year-long battle with cancer. Trained in music education at SUNY Potsdam
 SCHAEFER--Arthur B. 61, died suddenly February 14th, 2007. Survived by his daughters Michelle and Robyn, his sister Susan Levy and fiance, Marianne Kernander. Graveside service on Sunday, February 18, 12:30pm at Beth David Cemetery in Elmont. Donations to American Heart Assoc. or charity of
 SCHREIBER--Walter, M.D. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Greatneck. Howard A. Stecker, Senior Rabbi. Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President. $(6$)SCHREIBER--Walter, D.D.S., beloved husband of Carol Goldfarb Schreib
 SCRIPPS--Samuel H., October 30, 1927-February 16, 2007. Samuel H. Scripps, noted philanthropist, died on February 16, 2007. Mr. Scripps spent most of his life in the theater. In the 1950s he served as assistant technical director at the old Globe Theater in San Diego and the Berkeley Shakes
 SHECHET--David, beloved father, grandfather, and husband of the late Jean Shechet, died peacefully at his home in Manhattan on February 15, 2007. He was a man of great integrity, brilliance, generosity, and faith. David's personal and philanthropic generosity was known to many but was never
 SLATER--Alexander Byers, life-time resident of Locust Valley, NY died February 15. Sandy was an avid Sportsman, a master angler and an excellent wing shot. He loved his time with nature. He is survived by his wife Susan, son Alexander Jr., daughters Katharyn Hart and Serena Wilson; granddau
 STONE--Oscar Jay, passed away peacefully after a long illness on February 15th. Loving husband of the late Pearl. Beloved father of Elliot and cherished uncle of Wendy Sue (Asher) Fogel. Adored brother of Helen Stein and the late Elaine and Arnold Tanzer, Selma D. Marquis, and Bea and Moe O
 Ralph Penza, an award-winning television news reporter and backup anchor for WNBC-TV in New York City, died early yesterday morning after a long illness, a spokeswoman for NBC said. Mr. Penza was 74 and lived in Manhattan. His death was announced yesterday by NBC. Mr. Penza,
 Ray Evans, a pop lyricist who teamed up with the composer and lyricist Jay Livingston to write three Academy Award-winning songs and one of Nat King Cole's best-known classics, as well as the Christmas standard ''Silver Bells,'' died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 92. Jim Steinb
 Ian Stevenson, an academic psychiatrist who 45 years ago abandoned Freud as too unscientific and turned to the paranormal as a tool with which to plumb the human psyche, died on Feb. 8 in Charlottesville, Va. He was 88 and had lived in Charlottesville for many years. The cause was p
 Maurice Papon, a prominent French functionary convicted in 1998 of complicity in Nazi crimes against humanity during the German occupation in World War II, died yesterday at a private clinic near Paris. He was 96. He underwent heart surgery related to his pacemaker on Tuesday, and d
 BRUST--Stanley. Long time resident of Anchorage, AK, formerly of NYC, died on February 14, 2007, One day after his 77th birthday. Stanley, you will always be in your sisters' hearts. Leila Brust Silver NYC, Dorothea Brust, Hartsdale, NY.       
 CALDWELL--William Webster, III, died, unexpectedly, of heart failure, February 9. Beloved husband and father, brother and son, friend and colleague, Wall Street trader, athlete, generous citizen of Brooklyn Heights, New York and Norfolk, Connecticut. He is deeply mourned by his wife, Prisci
 COOPERSTEIN--Sam, painter, art director, father of two and grandfather of three died on February 8. He was 70 years old. Son of Morris and Jean Cooperstein, older brother to Steven Cooperstein and Bryna Cohen, his spirit and humor will live on through those whose lives he touched. A lover o
 DAVIS--Leonard, on February 10th, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Frieda. Loving father of Harvey. Distinguished violist, soloist, chamber musician, recording artist, teacher, and author. He is survived by his niece Linda Finkelstein of Monroe, NJ and his nephew Seymour Adlerstein of Bloo
 FOREST--Jack, J. M.D. -90 died February 13 Westport, CT, formerly of Forest Hills Gardens, NY. Survived by his wife Sherl, daughter Vicki (Alex), son Bruce (Mitzi), grandchildren Bliss and Asa, sister Lillian (Harry) and a large loving extended family. Medical School University of Lausanne,
 FREEDMAN--Martin, of Mt. Vernon, NY died at his home in his sleep on February 9, a few months short of his 100th birthday. Born ''Mottle'' in 1907 in Linkuva, Lithuania, he came to America penniless via Ellis Isle in 1921 and from a humble East side peddler's cart evolved a top of the line 
 FRICK--Henry Clay, II. Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons mourns the passing of Henry Clay Frick, II, alumnus, colleague, and mentor. He was a graduate of our medical school (Class of 1944), professor emeritus of clinical obstetrics and gynecology, and an oncologist at wha
 HOFFMAN--George Lester, D.D.S. February 15th, 2007. Adored husband of Marcelle and beloved father to Mara Winn and Julie Kapito and honored father-in-law to Randall Winn, M.D. and William Kapito, cherished grandfather to Geoffrey and Alexander Winn. Brother to Arthur Hoffman and son to the 
 HOWARD--John R. In Westbrook, CT, February 10, 2007, John R. Howard of 553 Toby Rd., Westbrook, CT and New York City. Born in Stamford, CT on December 23, 1940, son of the late Harold and Mildred Howard. Loving father of Jessie Howard Brine, Nathaniel Paul Howard and Samuel Patrick Howard a
 JAFFE--Edwin A., beloved husband of Lola Jaffe, passed away peacefully on February 14, 2007 at their home in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Ed was born in Brooklyn, New York, September 3, 1922 and grew up in Fall River, Massachusetts. A Yale University graduate, he was President of the J & J C
 JONES--James Robert, M.D., former Chairman and Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology at New York Medical College, died of cardiac arrest on February 12th, in Naples, FL, at the age of 72. The proud Brooklynite, and long time resident of Mendham, New Jersey, is survived by his wife
 KANE--Martin. Died February 14, at age 89. He is survived by beloved wife Rhoda of 60 years. Loving father of Phyllis Sondes, Benjamin and Richard, and grandfather to Ryan. Dear brother of Syma Melamed and the late Sylvia Freifeld. He proudly served as a Lieutenant J. G. in the US Coast Gua
 KRET--Rabbi Jacob. The officers and members of the Old Broadway Synagogue announce with profound sadness the death on February 7, 2007 of our beloved teacher, spiritual leader, and mentor, Rabbi Jacob Kret, of blessed memory. Rabbi Kret grew up in Poland where he attended the Bialystoker Ye
 KURFIST--Howard A. on February 14, 2007. A true Valentine, forever loved by his wife Lorelei; his children Stacey, Lee, Louis, and Marisa; and his grandchildren Jocelyn, Adrienne, Alana, and Roman.       
 MARZULLI--Jerry, February 12, 2007. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Chris and Jerry John, cherished grandfather of Max and Sadi, loving brother of Vincent and the late Bella. He was a veteran of WWII and Korea in both the Navy and Marine Corps who graduated from Pratt Institute. 
 MAYER--Frederick R. The Trustees and Staff of the American Federation of Arts are deeply saddened by the loss of Frederick R. Mayer, former AFA Trustee and husband of our dear friend andChairman Emerita Jan Perry Mayer. We will always be grateful for Frederick's wise council and generosity 
 PACELLA--Bernard L., M.D. Born on July 25, 1912, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Died February 15, 2007, New York, New York. Dr. Bernard L. Pacella died in his sleep at age 94, after a long and distinguished career as a leader in the fields of psychiatry and psychoanalysis. Educated at the Univer
 ROACH--Thomas J., 74, of Wall Township, NJ, suddenly on Thursday, February 15, 2007 at his residence. Devoted husband of Lorraine Church, beloved father of Deborah and her husband Patrick Yobs, and Thomas and his wife Colleen Roach, loving grandfather of Lauren, Ryan, and Sean, and dear bro
 SCHREIBER--Walter, D.D.S., beloved husband of Carol Goldfarb Schreiber, cherished father of daughters Merrill and Catherine, and adored grandfather of Elyse, Robyn, Stephanie and Jeremy passed away peacefully on February 15 in his home in Great Neck, NY at age 90 after a long battle with ki
 SCHWARTZ--Marsha. The Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services extend heartfelt condolences to Eric Schwartz on the loss of his beloved mother, Marsha Schwartz, and mother-in-law to devoted Trustee, Erica Schwartz. We share their sorrow and offer our deepest s
 SCRIPPS--Samuel H., October 30, 1927-February 16, 2007. Samuel H. Scripps, noted philanthropist, died on February 16, 2007. Mr. Scripps spent most of his life in the theater. In the 1950s he served as assistant technical director at the old Globe Theater in San Diego and the Berkeley Shakes
 SLATER--Alexander Byers, life-time resident of Locust Valley, NY died February 15. Sandy was an avid Sportsman, a skier, a master angler and an excellent wing shot. He loved his time with nature. He is survived by his wife Susan, son Alexander Jr., daughters Katharyn Hart and Serena Wilson;
 WARNER--Charles G. K., 88, died December 30, 2006. A retired professor of French history, he is survived by his beloved wife, nee Patricia Rosalind Cutler; children Christopher, Nicholas, Joshua, Cecily Noble and Rosalind Schreiber; stepson Robert L. Fowler; and his brother William W. Warne
 WEGMAN--Edwin. We deeply mourn the loss of this wise and gentle man and great friend. Our deepest sympathy and love to his wife Toby and their family. Leslie Fine Sheila Harkavy       
 Ralph Penza, an award-winning television news reporter and anchor for WNBC-TV in New York City, died early Friday after a long illness, a spokeswoman for NBC said. Mr. Penza was 74 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Penza, a senior correspondent for WNBC-TV, was best known for his aggressi
 Steven Pimlott, a British theater and opera director best known in the United States for his productions of ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat'' and ''Bombay Dreams,'' died Wednesday at his home near Colchester in Essex, England. He was 53. The cause was lung cancer, sai
 Maurice Papon, a prominent French functionary convicted in 1998 of complicity in Nazi crimes against humanity during the German occupation in World War II, died Saturday at a private clinic near Paris. He was 96. He underwent heart surgery related to his pacemaker on Tuesday, and di
 BLUM--Robert. February 12th, 1919 -Febraury 17th, 2007. Beloved husband to Evelyn for 58 years. Devoted son of Mary and Morris Blum. Cherished brother of Ruth Spivak (Ralph). Adoring Father of Alan (Raynee) and Stanley (Janie). Proud Zayda of Michael (Amanda), Benjamin (Melissa) Robyn, and 
 EDWARDS--Jackson. Loved deeply, honored and admired by step-children Myles, Jo, Mark, David and Beth Fox and all their children. You amazed us with your zest and high caliber, and spoiled us with your love and generosity. Definitely, one of a kind. Always to be missed and treasured in our t
 JAFFE--Edwin. The Board and Staff of Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival and School mourns the passing of our dear friend, Ed Jaffe, and sends our deepest sympathies to Lola Jaffe, his wife and our former Board Member. Ed and Lola were generous benefactors and lovers of the arts. We all feel fort
 KENNEDY--Martin J., devoted husband, stepfather, son and brother, died February 15 in NYC at 54 after a courageous battle with cancer. His sense of caring and sense of humor will always be part of all our lives. Funeral, Tuesday 10am, St. Helens, Westfield, NJ. Memorial mass Saturday at Fai
 LEVINE--Harold. We mourn the loss of our dear nephew. Our hearts go out to his family. You gave so much of yourself to so many important charities, your community and toyour family. We know you will be truly missed, and now you join your mother who had loved you dearly. Doris and Stanley Ta
 LIGHT--Philip, 76, beloved husband of Suzanne, cherished father of Melanie Eisenberg and husband Corey, Kenneth Light and wife Sheryl. Adored grandfather of Samuel, Matthew, and Jacob Light, and Allison and Erica Eisenberg. Died peacefully at his home in Great Neck on February 17th. He was 
 WEGMAN--Edwin. We deeply mourn the loss of this wise and gentle man and great friend. Our deepest sympathy and love to his wife Toby and their family. Leslie Fine Sheila Harkavy $(6$)WEGMAN--Edwin H, of Boca Raton, Florida, died February 16. He was past Board President of South Nass
 SCHAECHTER--Mordkhe. We join the world of Yiddish scholarship in mourning the death of our dear friend, the legendary Dr. Mordkhe Schaechter. A giant in the field, his intellect, passion, leadership, and humanity will be sorely missed by all who treasure Mame-Loshn. Our deepest sympathy to 
 Sheridan Morley, the prominent British critic, biographer and broadcaster who devoted his career to chronicling and, often, celebrating plays and players, died on Friday at his home in London. He was 65. The cause has not yet been determined, but his death was widely reported in the
 Dr. Aaron B. Lerner, a Yale dermatologist and the leader of a team of researchers who discovered melatonin, a powerful hormone regulating human sleep-wake cycles, died on Feb. 3 in New Haven. He was 86. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said. In 
 Charles Langford, a civil rights lawyer whose best-known client was a Montgomery, Ala., seamstress named Rosa Parks, died on Feb. 11 at his home in Montgomery. He was 84. Mr. Langford died in his sleep, his niece Audrey Anderson told The Associated Press. A Democrat, Mr. Langford wa
 Joseph Low, an illustrator who did absurdist covers for The New Yorker and won Caldecott honors for the children's book ''Mice Twice,'' died on Feb. 12 at his home in Edgartown, Mass., on Martha's Vineyard. He was 95. He died in his sleep of natural causes, said his daughter Damaris
 ANDRUS--Jan Tyler, 60, born December 12, 1946 died February 18, 2007. His parents and sister Patricia Diane Andrus have preceded him in death. He is survived by two brothers, three nephews and his sister-in-law. Jan was an active artist/composer and musician. Jan worked as a Project Manager
 BELLSEY--Ira Louis, passed away quickly and peacefully Monday, February 19, 2007. He was loving and beloved husband of Jacquie (nee Kurzon), devoted father of Jonathan and the late Peter and Ronald, dear father-in-law of Cynthia and Lisa, most caring grandfather of Justyn, Erin, and Tasha, 
 BLUM--Robert. February 12th, 1919 -Febraury 17th, 2007. Beloved husband to Evelyn for 58 years. Devoted son of Mary and Morris Blum. Cherished brother of Ruth Spivak (Ralph). Adoring Father of Alan (Raynee) and Stanley (Janie). Proud Zayda of Michael (Amanda), Benjamin (Melissa) Robyn, and 
 BORG--Neil A. Beloved son of Robert F. Borg and E. Winifred Borg, caring brother to Christina, Lisa, Kiri and his twin Dean. He passed peacefully at his home in Manhattan. Born December 24, 1961, he grew up and attended school in Scarsdale, NY. We will forever admire his individual style, k
 FORTNER--Joseph G., M.D., beloved husband of Roberta (nee Olsen), cherished father of Kathleen Fortner, M.D. and Joseph G. Fortner, Jr., Esq. (spouse Holly Winger Fortner), adoring grandfather of Amanda and Margaret Fortner and Christina and Genevieve Lewis, died on February 18, 2007. A ret
 KOFMEHL--Paul J., 78, died on February 17 in New York City, following a brief illness. Mr. Kofmehl retired from IBM in 1988 as IBM Vice President and Group Executive America's Group, after serving as IBM President World Trade Europe/Middle East/ Africa in Paris, France. Following his retire
 KRAMER--Saul. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Saul Kramer and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 LEVINE--Harold. We mourn the loss of our dear nephew. Our hearts go out to his family. You gave so much of yourself to so many important charities, your community and to your family. We know you will be truly missed, and now you join your mother who had loved you dearly. Doris and Stanley T
 MERKEL--Stephen H., Cantor: The Congregation, Clergy, and Staff of Westchester Reform Temple mourn the death of its Cantor of 19 years. A native of Winnipeg, Cantor Merkel was a Juilliard-trained baritone and celebrated performer noted for his passion for Jewish music and Yiddish culture. A
 MILONI--Joseph T., native son of Brooklyn, 48, died on January 28, 2007. Joe was many things in his life: a bodybuilder and model; a disco fanatic (yes, he could do the hustle); a world traveler; a philhellene (look it up); a beach bum; a walking library of TV commercial jingles; Titanic-ob
 NESSEL--Melvin. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of it's esteemed member Melvin Nessel and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Gail and other members of his family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 OKSNER--Robert S. (Bob) October 14, 1916 -February 18, 2007 of Delray Beach, FL. formerly of Paterson and Teaneck, NJ and Saugerties, NY. Loving and beloved husband of Patricia (Kinzler) for more than 64 years. Adored father of Rebecca (Ron) Berger, Margaret Jecko, and Amy (James) Kendrick.
 WALKER--Robert W., of Vero Beach, FL and Quogue NY. Formerly of Lloyd Harbor, NY. Died February 16th. Survived by his wife of 56 years Jocelyn, daughter Robin Jeffery, sons Clinton and Bart, and eight grandchildren. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The Nature Conservancy Upla
 WHITMORE--George M., Jr., of Greenwich, CT, died February 16, 2007 after a long battle with lymphoma. He is survived by his wife Priscilla (Penny) Whitmore, his daughter, Elizabeth (Laurie) Lippincott, and sons George Norman Whitmore and Stephen Bradford Whitmore and four grandchildren. Ser
 WIRFEL--Barbara, on February 19, 2007. Beloved mother of Kenneth and his late brother Larry. Adored mother-in-law of June and grandmother of Mikhaila and Hannah. Cherished sister of Ed Sommerfeld, Audrey Peltzman and their late brother Martin Sommerfeld. Funeral services will be held on Wed
 Robert Adler, a physicist and prolific inventor best known as the co-inventor of the television remote control device, died Feb. 15 in Boise, Idaho. He was 93. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Ingrid Adler. Dr. Adler, who held nearly 200 United States patents, wor
 Elliott Baker, a screenwriter and novelist whose first book, ''A Fine Madness,'' was made into a Hollywood film starring Sean Connery, died on Feb. 9 in Los Angeles. He was 84 and had lived in Los Angeles for many years. The cause was cancer, his niece Lee Moskof said. A dar
 BARNARD--Edward T., of North Branford, CT, died on February 19 at Yale-New Haven Hospital. Born on October 10, 1910 in New Rochelle, he graduated from Yale in 1933. He worked for United Press before enlisting in the US Army Air Corps, serving in England during World War II and retiring as a
 BELLSEY--Ira Louis, passed away quickly and peacefully Monday, February 19, 2007. He was loving and beloved husband of Jacquie (nee Kurzon), devoted father of Jonathan and the late Peter and Ronald, dear father-in-law of Cynthia and Lisa, most caring grandfather of Justyn, Erin, and Tasha, 
 BENNETT--James G. Jr., of Bath, Maine, previously of Minneapolis, MN, and Darien, CT, died Friday, February 16, 2007. He was born in Minnesota on August 24th, 1927, a son of James G. Bennett and Lillian Louis Taylor Bennett. He served his country honorably in the US Army from 1946 to 1947. 
 BERGER--Robert A. The Mount Sinai Dermatology Department mourns the loss of Robert Berger, who was a superb physician and dedicated teacher. He will be sorely missed. BERGER--Dr. Robert A. Hopefully wonderful memories will ease the pain from the deepest kind of loss. My friend, conf
 BLUM--Robert. February 12th, 1919 -Febraury 17th, 2007. Beloved husband to Evelyn for 58 years. Devoted son of Mary and Morris Blum. Cherished brother of Ruth Spivak (Ralph). Adoring Father of Alan (Raynee) and Stanley (Janie). Proud Zayda of Michael (Amanda), Benjamin (Melissa) Robyn, and 
 FORTNER--Joseph G., M.D., beloved husband of Roberta (nee Olsen), cherished father of Kathleen Fortner, M.D. and Joseph G. Fortner, Jr., Esq. (spouse Holly Winger Fortner), adoring grandfather of Amanda and Margaret Fortner and Christina and Genevieve Lewis, died on February 18, 2007. A ret
 KATZ--Edward P. of Stamford, CT, and Boynton Beach, FL, passed away February 20, 2007 after a brief illness at Bethesda Hospital in Boynton Beach, FL. Mr. Katz was born in 1933 in Brooklyn, NY. Mr. Katz graduated from Milford Prep in Milford, CT and Hobart College in Geneva, NY. He held sen
 KAUFMAN--Paul Robert. Died on Monday February 19th, 2007 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a protracted battle with cancer. He was 65 years old and is survived by his wife, Jacqueline, one daughter, Kara, and a sister, Carole Mannion. He was a dedicated teacher and tutor who touched m
 KOFMEHL--Paul J., 78, died on February 17 in New York City, following a brief illness. Mr. Kofmehl retired from IBM in 1988 as IBM Vice President and Group Executive America's Group, after serving as IBM President World Trade Europe/Middle East/ Africa in Paris, France. Following his retire
 LANDAU--Siegfried. The Brooklyn Philharmonic, Board of Directors, Musicians and Administration mourn the loss of founding Music Director Siegfried Landau and his wife Irene. The Landaus had a deep commitment to Brooklyn, passion for music and an unwavering love for the Brooklyn Philharmonic
 LEVINE--Harold. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of Harold Levine, brother of our past Chairman of the Board, Alan Levine. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Bo
 MATTHEWS--Carole. The John F. Kennedy Junior Institute for Worker Education expresses its deep sorrow to Ed Matthews, the executive director of UCP/NYC and his children on the passing of Carole Matthews. Carole was a wonderful wife, mother, friend and an inspirational individual. Jeffrey Sa
 MCDONALD--Rev. Thomas M. on February 18, 2007. Beloved brother of Elizabeth T. Howarth, Eileen M. (Robert) Fluhr, Rev. Bernard McDonald, Lawrence McDonald and Rose (John) Harrington. Cherished uncle of 13 nieces and nephews, grand uncle of 18 nieces and nephews. Predeceased by his father an
 MERKEL--Stephen H., Cantor: The Congregation, Clergy, and Staff of Westchester Reform Temple mourn the death of its Cantor of 19 years. A native of Winnipeg, Cantor Merkel was a Juilliard-trained baritone and celebrated performer noted for his passion for Jewish music and Yiddish culture. A
 O'NEILL--Robert John, passed away peacefully February 18, 2007 in his 73rd year. Beloved husband of the late Lorraine Ann (Lutter) O'Neill, loving father of Lynn A. O'Neill-Davis, Kathy E. O'Neill - Kaiser, Laura J. O'Neill-Murphy and Robert W. O'Neill, born in New York City on December 21,
 PACELLA--Bernard L. M.D. The Pacella Parent Child Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute mourns the loss of Bernard L. Pacella, M.D., in whose honor the Center is named through the generosity of an anonymous benefactor. Helping children has been the most significant par
 QUINN--Br. Charles Barnabas C.F.C., Ph.D. on February 19, 2007. He was born on September 5, 1913 in Somerville, MA. His family moved to Ennistymon, County Clare, Ireland in 1919, where he attended Christian Brothers Schools. He received a B.A. in Irish from the National University of Irelan
 RADIGAN--John J., long time Merck & Co., Inc. Vice President, dies in his 92nd year in Naples, Florida on February 17, 2007. He was generally credited with the progressive, innovative and highly respected hiring and employment practices at Merck & Co. The company still enjoys a reputation f
 ROSENTHAL--Louis H. died February 19, 2007 surround by his loving family. He was a good man and a good friend and will leave an empty space in the hearts of those who knew him. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Hilda, father of Bernice and Adella, brother-in-law of Helen Zirilstein an
 SCRIPPS--Samuel H. The Trustees, dancers and staff of the Paul Taylor Dance Foundation note with sadness the death of long-time Trustee Samuel H. Scripps, who provided generous support to the Foundation for many years. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Luise; his son and daught
 WIRFEL--Barbara, on February 19, 2007. Beloved mother of Kenneth and his late brother Larry. Adored mother-in-law of June and grandmother of Mikhaila and Hannah. Cherished sister of Ed Sommerfeld, Audrey Peltzman and their late brother Martin Sommerfeld. Funeral services will be held on Wed
 KOENIGSBERG--Gerald, Beloved uncle, brother-in-law and cherished friend. We will miss you always. The Zingman Family KOENIGSBERG--Gerald, Born August 21, 1921, died on Monday, February 19, 2007 at his home in Key Biscayne, FL. Jerry triumphed over advanced colon cancer for nine year
 MELNIKER--S. William, passed away after a long illness. Beloved brother of Dorothy Adlman, twin brother of Harry Melniker and brotherin-law of Margot. Cherished uncle of Linda Snyder, Jeffrey Adlman, Jill and Larry Melniker. Devoted granduncle and great-granduncle. Bill spent his life in th
 SCHAECHTER--Mordkhe, Born December 1, 1927, died February 15, 2007. ''Mir hobn farloyrn undzer libn reb Motele Tshernevitser''. His devoted wife, Charne; children, Rukhl, Gitl, Eydl and Binyumen; 16 grandchildren, and sister Beyle all loved him and will continue to spread his passion for Yi
 Siegfried Landau, the founding conductor of what is now called the Brooklyn Philharmonic Orchestra, died on Monday night, along with his wife, Irene Gabriel, in a fire at their home in Brushton, in northern New York State. Mr. Landau was 85. His wife, a former ballet dancer, was 70.        
 Dr. Campbell Moses, an internist and a former medical director of the American Heart Association who in the 1950s and '60s made innovative educational television programs intended for fellow physicians, died on Feb. 11 in Upper Saddle River, N.J. He was 89. The cause was a thoracic 
 John W. Lederle, who as president of the University of Massachusetts in the 1960s led the transformation of a rural campus with fewer than 6,000 students in Amherst into a major research center with more than 18,000 students and who also directed the development of two campuses, died on Feb
 BARNARD--Edward T., of North Branford, CT, died on February 19 at Yale-New Haven Hospital. Born on October 10, 1910 in New Rochelle, he graduated from Yale in 1933. He worked for United Press before enlisting in the US Army Air Corps, serving in England during World War II and retiring as a
 BEACH--Thomas P., M.D. died on February 16th, 2007 at age 70 in NYC of malignant fibrous histiocytoma. He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Joan, children Theresa Kilman (James), Richard (Renee), David (partner Russell Granet), and Carol Anne (spouse Tara Bradley) as well as grandchildre
 BERGER--Robert Arman, M.D., gentlemen, equestrian, opera lover, bridge maven and dear, dear friend -to be missed terribly. Our hearts go out to Alta, Alex, Laura, Melanie and the entire family. Roberta and Walter Zweifler BERGER--Robert, Armin. Robert A. Berger, M.D., 75, beloved hu
 DAVIS--Leonard. The New York Philharmonic mourns the passing, on February 10, of its former Principal Violist. Mr. Davis, a member of the Orchestra from 1949 to 1991, appeared in recitals here and abroad, published numerous transcriptions and editions of musical works, and was on the facult
 GAINES--Leonard. The funniest man on the planet. He left us laughing and that's what we'll remember after the tears dry. We'll miss you. Robin Fried and Herb Rubin.       
 KATZ--Edward P. The Board of Governors and members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Charles Roden, President       
 LEVINE--Harold. Exempli fied the true response to the Rabbinic saying ''What is the best way to lead your life? Have a good heart''. Worked untiringly for Jewish causes, his Synagogue and Federation, and dedicated to making the world a better place for all. Committed to the Boy Scouts and s
 LOOMIS--Robert G., of Bronxville on February 20, 2007. Mr. Loomis worked for IBM as part of their ''Think Tank''. He then had a second career as a research librarian for Lehman College and Pace University. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Joseph's Church, Bronxville on Friday, February 23, a
 MULLINS--Joseph Allen, 60, of Gainesville died at home February 19, 2007. Born in West Monroe, Louisiana, he moved from Fairfield, Connecticut to Gainesville in 2006. He attended Tulane University and the University of Viriginia Law School. Mr. Mullins was a partner with Cravath, Swaine & M
 QUINN--Brother Charles B., CFC. The College of New Rochelle Community records with sorrow the death of Br. Charles Quinn of Iona College, beloved friend and colleague of long-standing. One of the giants of the Congregation of Christian Brothers, we admired his intense faith, rigorous standa
 ROSENTHAL--Louis H. died February 19, 2007 surround by his loving family. He was a good man and a good friend and will leave an empty space in the hearts of those who knew him. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Hilda, father of Bernice and Adella, brother-in-law of Helen Zirilstein an
 GOLDSCHMIDT--Gustave W. Loving husband for 62 years of Ilse (nee Fluss), father of Eric (Pam), Sidney (Sandi), and Debbie (Mark Blechner). Grandfather of Doron (Shira), Lisa (Jonathan), Judah (Daphne), Elisha (Sara), Joshua (Sarah), Daniella (Yehuda), Michele (Doni), Jenna, Adam, Joey. Grea
 KOENIGSBERG--Gerald. Our Lido foursome is now a threesome. We will miss your easy money and ''We were always entitled to your opinion.'' Rest well, old friend. Sandy Feinman, Sol Griboff, and Jack Grogan KOENIGSBERG--Gerald. Dear Jerry: courageous, bright; he appreciated every dynam
 MELNIKER--S. William. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of it's longtime member, S. William Melniker. We extend heart felt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Howard F. Sharfstein, President MELNIKER--S. William, passed away after a l
 Dennis Johnson, a brilliant defensive player who helped propel the Seattle SuperSonics and the Boston Celtics to N.B.A. championships, died yesterday in Austin, Tex. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, the National Basketball Association said. Johnson, a five-time All-S
 Dr. David B. Ast, a dentist and public health official who led an effort to begin fluoridating the water supply in New York State in the 1940s and helped prove its safety and effectiveness in preventing tooth decay, died on Feb. 3 in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 104. The cause was he
 Joseph E. Gallo, the California cheese maker who battled his winemaking brothers over the use of the family name, died Saturday at his home in Livingston, Calif. He was 87. The cause was complications of a series of strokes, said his son, Michael, the chief executive of Joseph Gallo
 de CHELLIS--Gus I. V. on February 21st. Beloved husband of Karin. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral mass Wednesday, February 28th, 10:30 am at St. Jean Baptiste Church, 76th St. at Lexington Ave. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Memorial Sloan-Ke
 GOLDMAN--Robert. With deep sadness, we regret the loss of our cousin, Robert Goldman. To those who knew him, he was a creative and successful businessman, a lover of sports and a fierce but fair competitor in all areas of life. He was a loving husband to his wife, Frieda, a proud father to 
 GREENSPAN--Waldo, M.D., passed away quietly at home in River Edge, NJ, on Wednesday, February 21, 2007, he was 83 years old. He was born in South Amboy, NJ, to Violet and David Greenspan. A graduate of Rutgers University and Cornell Medical School, Dr. Greenspan served with the Navy in the 
 HUDSON--Dr. William C, Jr. passed away on February 21, from complications resulting from a stroke. Born May 9, 1922 in New York. He resided in Bronxville, NY, and Clinton, CT. Graduated from Riverdale and attended Hobart College prior the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine
 KOENIGSBERG--Jerry, born August 21st, 1921 died Monday, February 19th, 2007 at his winter home in Key Biscayne, Florida. Jerry triumphed over advanced colon cancer for nine years and after a valiant fight succumbed to other complications. Funeral services will be held Thursday, February 22n
 MILLER--Rosetta. The Smithsonian Archives of American Art sends condolences to long time trustee Samuel C. Miller on the death of his wife, Rosetta, our very good friend and enthusiastic supporter. Barbara G. Fleischman, Chair Janice C. Oresman, President John W. Smith, Director       
 PORTNOY--Zachary. We mourn the loss of the beloved son of our members, Robin and Kevin Portnoy, and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Isreal of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President       
 ROSENTHAL--Louis H. died February 19, 2007 surrounded by his loving family. He was a good man and a good friend and will leave an empty space in the hearts of those who knew him. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Hilda, father of Bernice and Adella, brother-in-law of Helen Zirilstein 
 SARDELL--Dr. Harry, 89, of Great Neck, NY. Died February 18. Beloved husband of Marilyn (nee Glassman). Loving father of Robert Sardell and Susan Weisman. Adoring grandfather of Sarah, Samantha and Julia. Father - in - law of Mary Robertson and Mitch Weisman. Devoted to family and friends. 
 WOOD--Jack, 82, Pioneering television director and award-winning writer formerly of New York City, died February 18, 2007 of heart failure at home in Long Beach, California. Born in Longview, Texas, Wood received degrees from the University of Texas and Yale School of Drama. Beloved for his
 YUDELL--Allen C., 67, of Boca Raton, formerly of Forest Hills and Roslyn, died on February 21 following a nine-year battle with kidney cancer. His family and friends are deeply saddened by this terrible loss. Beloved husband to Jane for almost 42 years, loving father to Michael and Andrea, 
 GOLDSCHMIDT--Gustave (Gus). The Washington Heights Congregation expresses it's deep sorrow to Ilse and the entire Goldschmidt family on the loss of their, and our beloved Gus. His dedication and inspiration will be greatly missed.       
 ROSENBERG--Frederick, H. On February 22, at the age of 83. Beloved husband of Muriel Fabrikant. Loving father of Eric, Michael, Kenneth, Ivy, Jody, and Cary. Poppy to Nicholas, Alexander, Blake, Jared, Owen, Kyle, Ross and Tate. He will be dearly missed and lovingly remembered. Services Sun
 ROSENBLOOM--Esther. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Esther Rosenbloom, beloved grandmother of Keith Rosenbloom, member of UJA-Federation's Emerging Leaders and Philanthropists Strategic Council and the Investment Management Divi
 David Berger, a lawyer who achieved fame, fortune and influence by helping to expand the ability of groups of people to file suits jointly in federal courts, died on Thursday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 94. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said in a statement.    
 ALSTADT--Donald Martin. Polytechnic University mourns the passing of Donald M. Alstadt, former trustee of the University and noted chemist, inventor, and industrialist. Dr. Alstadt made tremendous contributions to the scientific field and to the many organizations and institutions he served
 BILGER--Nathan, born July 2, 1926, died February 22, 2007. Beloved husband of Muriel (Schiff), and father of Arthur (Dahlia), Laurie (Eli Epstein) and Jane (Andrew Philipsborn). Son of the late Jacob and Liba Bilger, and brother to Martha Goldstein and the late Elsie Mostowitz. His family a
 BURKE--Thomas Churchill. The Trustees and staff of the Altman Foundation mourn the death of our Trustee Emeritus, Thomas Churchill Burke. For almost 60 years, Tom brought his acute intelligence and sharp wit to our board deliberations, and his investment wisdom translated directly into the 
 de CHELLIS--Gus I. V. on February 21st. Beloved husband of Karin. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral mass Wednesday, February 28th, 10:30 am at St. Jean Baptiste Church, 76th St. at Lexington Ave. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Memorial Sloan-Ke
 FAULKNER--Avery. Washington, DC area architect, Avery C. Faulkner, FAIA, died in Delray Beach, FL on Feb 21, following a stroke. For his kindness, optimism, and charming story-telling technique, he will be dearly missed. Donations may be made to St. Alban's School in Washington, or the Nati
 HUDSON--Dr. William C, Jr. passed away on February 21, from complications resulting from a stroke. Born May 9, 1922 in New York. He resided in Bronxville, NY, and Clinton, CT. Graduated from Riverdale and attended Hobart College prior the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine
 NARDELLI--Vito. 94 years old, left us on February 22, 2007 to unite with his parents and his son Camillo Nardelli Esq. who predeceased him in 1987. Survived by his loving wife of 74 years, Palma, his children, the Honorable Eugene Nardelli, Laura Nardelli, his beloved daughter who took care
 RAPPEPORT--Stanley I., age 91, devoted longtime companion of Rita Cooper, brother of Jonas Rappeport of Baltimore, MD, and Evelyn Berman of Boca Raton, FL, passed away on February 22, 2007. He graduated from Johns Hopkins University, worked as a medical writer, and was a dedicated pacifist 
 STUART--Irv. 88 years. Completed his journey on earth February 22, after a valiant battle with leukemia. Extremely devoted husband of 63 years to Flora; much-loved father to daughter Joan and son Ronald, and grandfather to Jennifer, Marc, Sean and Amber. Long-time resident of both Montauk, 
 YUDELL--Allen C., 67, of Boca Raton, formerly of Forest Hills and Roslyn, died on February 21 following a nine-year battle with kidney cancer. His family and friends are deeply saddened by this terrible loss. Beloved husband to Jane for almost 42 years, loving father to Michael and Andrea, 
 KLEINSCHMIDT--Donald B. In memory of our former treasurer and respected member of the New York City Chapter of the Industrial Relations Research Association. From his NYCIRRA friends and colleagues.       
 KOENIGSBERG--Jerry, born August 21st, 1921 died Monday, February 19th, 2007 at his winter home in Key Biscayne, Florida. Jerry triumphed over advanced colon cancer for nine years and after a valiant fight succumbed to other complications. Funeral services will be held Sunday, February 25th,
 ROSENBERG--Frederick, H. On February 22, at the age of 83. Beloved husband of Muriel Fabrikant. Loving father of Eric, Michael, Kenneth, Ivy, Jody, and Cary. Poppy to Nicholas, Alexander, Blake, Jared, Owen, Kyle, Ross and Tate. He will be dearly missed and lovingly remembered. Services Sun
 Richard Lehman, a high-ranking Central Intelligence Agency analyst who, on orders from a perturbed President John F. Kennedy, developed the succinct intelligence summary that has been handed to presidents each morning for 45 years, died last Saturday near his home in Concord, N.H. He was 83
 Ronald Hilton, an influential scholar on Latin America who played a role in uncovering secret preparations for Cuban exiles' invasion at the Bay of Pigs, died Tuesday at his home on the Stanford University campus, in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 95. The death was announced on the Web si
 Sheldon K. Friedlander, whose research helped identify the various pollutants in smog and quantify them by source, died on Feb. 9 at his home in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was complications of pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Dr. F
 BARRETT--Thomas Patrick, born in Rochester, NY in 1931. Died on February 15, 2007 in New Rochelle, NY after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. He is survived by his brother Robert, uncle Paul Spiegel, former wife Sandra and daughters, Sandy, Cindy, Katherine, Kim and Lauren. Tom gradua
 BUIST--Albert S. November 21, 1930 to December 5, 2006. Born: Polyclinic Hospital. Beloved son, brother, uncle, and pal. Idyllic teen years: Windham, NY (farming, animals, country, lifelong friends). Navy Veteran. Back to NYC: (School and Jobs). Twenty plus years at Time, Inc. News Desk (wh
 BURKE--Thomas Churchill. The Trustees and staff of the Altman Foundation mourn the death of our Trustee Emeritus, Thomas Churchill Burke. For almost 60 years, Tom brought his acute intelligence and sharp wit to our board deliberations, and his investment wisdom translated directly into the 
 FAULKNER--Avery. Washington, DC area architect, Avery C. Faulkner, FAIA, died in Delray Beach, FL on Feb 21, following a stroke. For his kindness, optimism, and charming story-telling technique, he will be dearly missed. Donations may be made to St. Alban's School in Washington, or the Nati
 FORTNER--Joseph G. The staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) note with sadness the death of our esteemed colleague, Joseph G. Fortner. Dr. Fortner served at MSKCC for nearly 45 years (from 1951 to 1995) and was Chief of the Gastric and Mixed Tumor Service from 1970 to 1978
 GABRIEL--George, 97, in Sarasota, Florida, Thursday, February 22nd. Former Vice President of Broadcast Music Incorporated, active in Variety International B'Nai Brith anti-defermation league and united Jewish appeal-federation. He leaves his wife Edith, his children by marriage Andrew and J
 GOLDMAN--Robert, of New Rochelle, New York, died on February 21, 2007 at age 77. Beloved and loved husband of Frieda for 50 years, devoted and proud father of David (Mitchie), Danny (Julie) and Michael (Charlotte) and adored grandfather of Samuel, Sarah and Maxwell. We will never forget his
 HANSEN--Donald P. His students and friends mourn the loss of a dedicated and inspiring teacher and mentor. For many of us, he truly exemplified the Confucian saying ''A teacher for a day; a father for life''.       
 KOFMEHL--Paul J., 78, died on February 17 in New York City, following a brief illness. Mr. Kofmehl retired from IBM in 1988 as IBM Vice President and Group Executive America's Group, after serving as IBM President World Trade Europe/Middle East/ Africa in Paris, France. Following his retire
 KOLATCH--Rabbi Alfred J. With profound sorrow, the Sekler Family mourns the passing of Rabbi Alfred J. Kolatch. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his family. Rabbi Kolatch has touched many lives through his writing and will be remembered with great fondness.       
 MALONEY--Michael Melton, died on February 16th, at the age of 59. He is survived by a family who loved him dearly. We sincerely thank all who have expressed support and condolences.       
 MASLOW--Will. The American Jewish Congress mourns the passing of Will Maslow who so nobly served as Director of our Council on Law and Social Justice, Counsel and Executive Director. His leadership in the struggle for rights for Jews and all Americans will never be forgotten. Jack Rosen, Pr
 NARDELLI--Vito. 94 years old, left us on February 22, 2007 to unite with his parents and his son Camillo Nardelli Esq. who predeceased him in 1987. Survived by his loving wife of 74 years, Palma, his children, the Honorable Eugene Nardelli, Laura Nardelli, his beloved daughter who took care
 OWETT--Bernard, 79. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, and friend died on February 22, of complications from a fall. Loved so very deeply and survived by his wife Trudy, son Adam, daughter Margot, their spouses Marsha and Ken, grandchildren Gideon, Clara Rose, and Lola, a
 PESKOE--Lloyd F., age 80, died Thursday, February 22 at Riverview Medical Center in Red Bank, NJ. Born in Long Branch, he was raised in Long Branch, Perth Amboy and Rahway, NJ. Mr. Peskoe lived in Monmouth County, NJ for over 50 years. Mr. Peskoe graduated cum laude from Harvard College wit
 SCANNELL--John M. Dr. John M. Scannell, a prominent Long Island Dentist died February 17, in Cape Coral, FL. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on February 11, 1917 to surgeon John Scannell, M.D. and Agnes Cauield-Scannell. Following graduation from Georgetown University Dental School and service 
 STERN--Sheldon, February 20, 2007. Great friend, you will be missed by all. Your extraordinary wit, strength, zest for life, camaraderie and the ability to brighten a room by your presence will be remembered with admiration and love. Sunday football, golf, ''traprints'' can never be the sam
 STUART--Irv. 88 years. Completed his journey on earth February 22, after a valiant battle with leukemia. Extremely devoted husband of 63 years to Flora; much-loved father to daughter Joan and son Ronald, and grandfather to Jennifer, Marc, Sean and Amber. Long-time resident of both Montauk, 
 WOOD--Jack, 82, Pioneering television director and award-winning writer formerly of New York City, died February 18, 2007 of heart failure at home in Long Beach, California. Born in Longview, Texas, Wood received degrees from the University of Texas and Yale School of Drama. Beloved for his
 KLEINSCHMIDT--Donald B. In memory of our former treasurer and respected member of the New York City Chapter of the Industrial Relations Research Association. From his NYCIRRA friends and colleagues.       
 KOENIGSBERG--Gerald. Thanks for the memories, We will miss you forever. Norman and Shirley Miller $(6$)KOENIGSBERG--Jerry, born August 21st, 1921 died Monday, February 19th, 2007 at his winter home in Key Biscayne, Florida. Jerry triumphed over advanced colon cancer for nine years a
 WASSERMAN--Bernard H. D.D.S., 85, of Somers, NY. Noted periodontist, inventor, Renaissance man. For 53 years, the beloved husband of the late Evelyn Chodosh. Adored by his loving children Alan (Susan), Steven (Judith), Nancy (John), Neil (Andrea), and grandchildren Michael, Matthew, Daniel,
 WHITEHOUSE--Frederick A., Ed.D., 96. January 22, 2007. Predeceased by wife Eleanor. Beloved father of Susan (Joe) Meyers, and grandpa to Jamie Moffett. Fred was a humanitarian and a pioneer in rehabilitation for over 50 years. He worked for the American Heart Assoc., then at Hofstra, as dir
 DRABKIN--Steven Wayne. 10/19/61 -2/23/81. We treasure his memory, how little time we had to share. Loving Family       
 Burt Beagle, an accountant who never met a sports statistic he did not love, a passion that put him on the sidelines of New York City high school and college sporting events for many years, died Monday in the Bronx. He was 73. The cause was complications of lung cancer, a longtime f
 Hasan Ozbekhan, a Turkish-born economist and management expert who helped found the Club of Rome, a group of thinkers who came together to examine unwieldy global problems like food shortages and overpopulation, died on Feb. 12 in Philadelphia. He was 86. The cause was a pulmonary e
 Lamar Lundy, a longtime defensive end for the Los Angeles Rams who in the 1960s was part of the Fearsome Foursome, one of the National Football League's most renowned defensive lines, died Saturday in Richmond, Ind. He was 71. Lundy's death was announced by the Community Family Fune
 The violinist and composer Leroy Jenkins, one of the pre-eminent musicians of 1970s free jazz, who worked on and around the lines between jazz and classical music, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said his wife
 Alan D. Eames, who cultivated his reputation as ''the Indiana Jones of beer'' by crawling into Egyptian tombs to read hieroglyphics about beer and voyaging along the Amazon in search of a mysterious lost black brew, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Dummerston, Vt. He was 59. His wife,
 Heinz Berggruen, a German-born Jewish art collector who in the mid-1990's made a powerful gesture of reconciliation by moving his modern art collection to Berlin, died outside Paris on Friday. He was 93. Mr. Berggruen's death was announced by Anne Baldassari, director of the Picasso
 BURKE--Thomas C. Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, the Sisters of Charity and the Manhattan Auxiliary mourn the passing of Thomas C. Burke. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Janet, longtime member of the Auxiliary; their seven children; and to his sister Jane and brother-in-l
 FAULKNER--Avery C. The members and staff of the Hillsboro Club mourn the passing of Mr. Avery C. Faulkner, our esteemed PastPresident and Chairman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children and grandchildren. Elizabeth B. Ketner, Chairman       
 HUDSON--William C., Jr. The Fellows of The New York Academy of Dentistry mourns the passing of William C. Hudson, Jr., a past President of the Academy 1972-1973. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family, especially his children and their families.       
 SCHACHTER--Rabbi Melech. The Yeshiva University and RIETS family mourn the passing of a distinguished Torah scholar who, for 46 years, was the central pillar of the Halachah L'Maaseh program at RIETS where he held the Rabbi Dr. and Mrs. Leon Katz Professorship in Rabbinics. His writings on 
 ZULLER--Norman, beloved husband of 55 years to Harriet; devoted father and father-in-law to Michael, Randi, Eliane, Dana, and Adrian; proud grandfather to Devon, Jillian, Geoffrey, Chelsea, Daniel, Alexander and Chloe. He passed away in his 80th year on February 25th after bravely battling 
 MORALISHVILI--George (Jora). Died on February 18, 2007. He survived WWII and prison camps, to achieve success through the ''American Dream''. But it was God that he thanked for delivering him against all odds. He will be missed.       
 Will Maslow, a former executive director of the American Jewish Congress who fought discrimination against African-Americans as well as Jews, particularly in employment and education, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99. The death was confirmed by his daughter Laura Masl
 Covey T. Oliver, a former assistant secretary of state, ambassador to Colombia and a professor of international law, died Thursday at his home near Easton, Md. He was 93. The death was confirmed by his son Jefferson. Mr. Oliver was ambassador to Colombia from 1964 to 1966 an
 Frank M. Snowden Jr., a historian who was a leading authority on the lives of black people in the ancient world, died on Feb. 18 in Washington. He was 95 and had lived in Washington for many years. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, Frank M. Snowden III, said. 
 BERGGRUEN--Heinz. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of Heinz Berggruen, one of the world's leading art dealers and collectors of modern art, who was a long-time Benefactor and friend. In 1984, he donated to the Metropolitan his superb collection of 90 p
 BURKE--Thomas C. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Thomas C. Burke, a former Officer of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith, IV, President Brian G. Andersson, Historian $(6$
 GUTTMAN--Charles. The attorneys and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and partner in our Litigation and Dispute Resolution Department, Charles Guttman. One of the first patent litigators hired at Proskauer, Charles came to the firm's New York office in 199
 LANDAU--Siegfried. The Jewish Theological Seminary mourns the passing of Professor Siegfried Landau and his wife Irene Gabriel. Professor Landau was one of the original teachers and mentors to many of the first students at the H.L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music. May th
 MASLOW--Will. With sad hearts, the Maslow, Horton, and Armand families bid farewell to their beloved husband, father, grandfather, and great-grandfather who died peacefully at home in his one hundredth year. He leaves behind his wife of 73 years, Beatrice, his daughters Laura and Catha, his
 OSBORN--Paul Albert, of Cedar Grove, NJ passed away at the age of 75 on February 23rd. Paul was raised in Montclair, NJ and was a veteran of the Korean War. He was a highly regarded forensic document examiner in New York City for nearly 50 years in the century old practice founded by his gr
 SANCHEZ--Stephen, 62, of Manhattan died February 23, 2007. Predeceased by his beloved parents Rita and Leonard Sanchez, survived by his siblings Leonard, Timothy, Joseph, Honora Browne and their families. Visitation at Morisco Funeral Home, Astoria, NY, Thursday, March 1, 2 to 5 and 7 to 9p
 SPITZ--Jerry, 75. Beloved husband to Judy, adored father of Lyn Stevens, Richard (Donna), and the late Steven. Dear brother to Bea, and Sid and dear uncle of Ronnie. He served as Principal of P.S. 62 Q. A skilled bridge player, teacher and Director, he was a Gold Life Master. To his grandch
 THOMPSON--James ''Dickie'' The beloved jazz guitarist died Thursday, February 22, 2007, in Tucson, Arizona. He is survived by his sons, Peter, Marc and Craig; daughters-inlaw, Ann and Arlynne; seven grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren, living on both the ''Mainland'' and Hawaii; pr
 WOOD--Captain Roy Pearson (Ret), 93, of Tinton Falls, NJ, passed away Saturday February 24, 2007, at the Jersey Shore University Medical Center, Neptune, NJ. Born in Staten Island, NY, on February 6, 1914, he resided in Randall Manor, Staten Island, NY, before moving to Tinton Falls, NJ. He
 ZELEKOWITZ--Helene. The members and staff of Elmwood Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and friend, Helene Zelekowitz, wife of Milton Zelekowitz. We wish to express our deepest sympathy to Milton and his children, Susan, Jeffrey and Neal; as well as Marc, Michelle, Fern a
