 Sir Alf Ramsey, who in 1966 coached England to its only World Cup soccer championship, died Wednesday in a nursing home near his home in Ipswich. He was 79 and had been confined to the nursing home, said Pat Godbolt, his former secretary with the Ipswich Town team, since a stroke du
 Gian-Carlo Rota, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology whose work bridged the upper realms of mathematics and philosophy, died on April 19 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 66. The cause was heart failure, M.I.T. officials said. Dr. Rota dealt with ab
 Mark D. Weiser, a computer scientist and the chief technology officer of the Xerox Corporation's legendary Palo Alto Research Center, died on Tuesday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 46. He died of liver failure resulting from cancer, his wife, Vicky Reich, said. In S
 ABRAMS-Arthur L., 86, of Scranton, PA, on April 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth Friedman. Cherished father of Judy Steinhardt, Ellen Abrams, Ann Lutz. Loved by his grandchildren, David and Daniel Steinhardt and Sara Berman, Lauren and Max Stossel, Emily and Ben Kaplan. Adoring greatgrandf
 deVRIES-Lion. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death on April 29th, 1999 of honorary alumnus and loyal friend Lion deVries. Mr. deVries and his wife, Tilly, helped to build strong ties between The Netherlands and Hofstra's academic community. Through the assistance of Mr. an
 DURRSE-Jacob G. Of Greenwich, CT. On April 29. Mr. Durrse was the President of the Linen Trade Association in New York City. For information regarding his funeral please phone the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home at 203869-1513.       
 FEIGENBAUM-Arthur. On April 30, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Ethel. Devoted father of Ruth Wimpfheimer and Michael Feigenbaum. Loving grandfather of Robert, Lori, Debra, Susan, Amy, Daniel, Nachum and his precious great-granddaughter, Yakira. Services Sunday 1PM Schwartz Brothers, 114-
 SCHIFF-Jack. 89. Of New Rochelle, NY, died on April 30, 1999. He had been a managing editor for DC Comics, including Superman and Batman. Mr. Schiff dedicated his life to promoting peace, justice, and equality and was a social activist in his community. Mr. Schiff is predeceased by his son 
 Teodoro Garcia, a reluctant Mexican lieutenant who battled the rebel Pancho Villa in the Mexican Revolution and is believed to be the last soldier in the army of the dictator Porfirio Diaz, died last Saturday in a retirement home in Texas City, Tex. He was 110. ''He was the last Fed
 Charles Gordon, a son of immigrants who became the general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the founding author of the 20-volume treatise Immigration Law and Procedure, died on Wednesday at Bay Medical Center in Panama City, Fla. He was 93 and lived in Potomac, Md.,
 Dr. Heinz L. Fraenkel-Conrat, whose research in biochemistry allowed scientists to peer into the innermost workings of viruses, died on April 10 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Oakland, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Berkeley. Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat, a professor emeritus at the U
 ABRAMS-Arthur L., 86, of Scranton, PA, on April 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth Friedman. Cherished father of Judy Steinhardt, Ellen Abrams, Ann Lutz. Loved by his grandchildren, David and Daniel Steinhardt and Sara Berman, Lauren and Max Stossel, Emily and Ben Kaplan. Adoring greatgrandf
 CANTER-Stanley D., 75. April 24, 1999. He was a man of great dignity and modesty, of elegant taste, intellectual clarity and profound generosity. His thoughtfulness, his kindness, his concern for those he loved and who loved him knew no bounds. His passions for music and painting enriched h
 de VRIES-Lion J. Beloved husband of Tilly, loving father of Christina and Eveline, grandfather to Bridge and Michael, passed away on April 29, 1999. Memorial service will be held on Sunday, May 2nd, his birthday, at 4 PM, Marble Collegiate Church, 29th St, and 5th Ave.       
 DENSON-Lawrence J., M.D. Beloved son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Denson. Beloved brother of Ruth Denson Cohen, Harold Denson, and the late Allan I. Denson. Services to be held at Gutterman-Musicant Funeral Home, Hackensack, NJ, Monday, April 3, at 10:30 AM. Interment at Riverside Cemete
 FEIGENBAUM-Arthur. On April 30, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Ethel. Devoted father of Ruth Wimpfheimer and Michael Feigenbaum. Loving grandfather of Robert, Lori, Debra, Susan, Amy, Daniel, Nachum and his precious great-granddaughter, Yakira. Services Sunday 1PM Schwartz Brothers, 114-
 GOLDSTEIN-Jeffrey L. On April 30, 1999. Beloved husband of Carol. Devoted father of Michael and Jaclyn. Adored son of Matthew and Adele. Loving brother of Elaine Perlmutter and Steven. He will be missed by all and remembered forever. Services Monday, 10 AM, at ''Gutterman's, Inc.,'' 175 Lon
 JACOBSON-Harry L. Born May 19, 1904. Of Boynton Beach, FL. and New Rochelle, N.Y. Beloved father of Richard (Joan) and Barbara (Bill). Proud grandfather ofJohn, Jodi, Lisa, Laura and great grandfather of Hadley, Ryan, Austin and Ross. Loving companion of Elaine Halpern. Officer of A.J. Cont
 JONES-Rees. Died peacefully on April 27, 1999, at Beth Israel Hospital. Survived by his wife Betty, family members and many friends. He enjoyed life fully with his love of music, travel, lawn bowling, and the company of friends and family. Memorial service will be held at First Presbyterian
 KAPLAN-Aaron. On April 30, 1999. Dearest husband of Marion (Mitzi). Loving father of Emily, Nathan and Bennett. Cherished Grampsy of Sarah and Eva. Poet, wordsmith, author of couplets. He will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 12:15 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.  
 MALAMUT-Marguerite. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Marguerite Malamut, beloved wife of our dear friend and benefactor, Abraham L. Malamut, Treasurer o
 THURSTON - Benjamin Easton, Colonel. September 13, 1903-April 14, 1999, Seattle, WA. Col. Thurston was born in Minneapolis, the only son and first born of James Siddall and Mary Winston Thurston. His mother crusaded for child labor laws and was an opium addict, and the children raised thems
 ZWEIG-Leon A. Of N. Bellmore, NY, April 29, 1999. He is survived by his wife Rusty, daughters Heda and Joni, granddaughter Madhurii, brother Stanley and sister-in-law Shirley. Services will be held at Gutterman's Funeral Home in Rockville Centre, Monday, May 3, at 10:30 AM.       
 Lieut. Col. Stanley T. Adams, who as an Army sergeant won the Medal of Honor in the Korean War for leading a counterattack that left more than 50 enemy soldiers dead in hand-to-hand combat, died on April 19 at the Oregon Veterans Home in The Dalles, Ore. He was 76. Colonel Adams, wh
 Walter S. Salant, who as a graduate student in the 1930's and later as a Government and private economist helped infuse the revolutionary teachings of John Maynard Keynes into Washington policy deliberations, died on Friday at a hospice near his home in Washington. He was 87. After 
 Judge Walter J. Cummings, who at 36 became the youngest Solicitor General of the United States and went on to be one of the longest-serving Federal appellate court judges in the nation's history, died on April 24 at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 82 and lived in Chicago. 
 William Brown, an architectural administrator who supervised the creation of 20th-century landmarks like Lever House on Park Avenue in Manhattan and the city of Oak Ridge, Tenn., died on April 4 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 89. Working for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the a
 Bert Remsen, a stage, screen and television actor for some 50 years, died on April 22 at his home in California's San Fernando Valley. He was 74. Mr. Remsen, who was born in Glen Cove, N.Y., began his career at the Neighborhood Playhouse, where he studied with Sanford Meisner. He we
 Charles R. Dawson, a longtime chemistry professor at Columbia University who played the leading role in the discovery of the toxic compounds in poison ivy, died on Wednesday in a hospital in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 88 and lived in Wolfeboro. Dr. Dawson taught at Columbia from 1939 un
 Charles Warren, a British physician who tried three times to scale Mount Everest in the 1930's, died on March 30 in his home in Essex, England. He was 92. Dr. Warren brought the sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay to the attention of British mountaineers. Mr. Norgay made history in 1953 whe
 Jere W. Lord Jr., a retired cardiovascular surgeon, a professor of clinical surgery and a former president of the New York Heart Association, died on April 20 at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 88. Dr. Lord retired from surgery in 1983. He was a professor at the New York University
 Erik Johan Friis, an editor and publisher whose work was well known to Scandinavian-American readers, died on April 5 at his home in Montvale, N.J. He was 86. Mr. Friis was director of publications and editor of The American-Scandinavian Review from 1951 to 1975. He also edited The 
 George McKinley, a New York lawyer who was active in the Citizens Union and other civic groups, died April 15 at St. Luke's Hospital in Newburgh, N.Y. He was 95 and lived in New Windsor, N.Y. Mr. McKinley, who was born in New York City, retired in 1978 as a partner in the office of 
 The Rev. John Brown Macnab, pastor emeritus of the First Presbyterian Church in Greenwich Village, died April 20 at a hospital in Rehoboth, Del. He was 77 and had lived at a church manse in Brooklyn Heights before he retired in 1992 and moved to Rehoboth Beach, Del. He suffered a br
 The Rev. Dr. James William Kennedy, a former rector of the Church of the Ascension in Greenwich Village, died April 21 at a retirement community in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 93. He served at the historic Episcopal church on Fifth Avenue and 10th Street from 1955 to 1964. During that t
 James H. Whittam, the president and chief executive of the Shaklee Companies, died April 15 at Stanford University Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. Dr. Whittam, a resident of Hillsborough, Calif., was 49. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Sibylle. Dr. Whittam rejoin
 Neal J. Hardy, who headed the Federal Housing Administration in the Kennedy Administration, died on April 15 at My Country Home Adult Congregate Living Facility in Osteen, Fla. He was 84 and had previously lived in Orange City, Fla. Mr. Hardy was an executive of the National Associa
 Oliver Reed, whose red-faced exuberance brought earthiness to film appearances as varied as a swashbuckling musketeer, a brutal Dickensian burglar and his best-known role as a coal mine owner's son in Ken Russell's version of ''Women in Love,'' died on Sunday while filming a movie in Malta.
 GOLDSTEIN-Jeffrey L. On April 30, 1999. Beloved husband of Carol. Devoted father of Michael and Jaclyn. Adored son of Matthew and Adele. Loving brother of Elaine Perlmutter and Steven. He will be missed by all and remembered forever. Services Monday, 10 AM, at ''Gutterman's, Inc.,'' 175 Lon
 MAZZA-Clara D'Andrea. Of Darien, CT on April 30, 1999. Mother of Anne M. Pirone, David L. Mazza and his wife Deborah, and Sr. Mary L. Mazza, CND. Calling hours are Monday, May 3, 1999 from 4-8 PM at the Edward Lawrence Funeral Home, 2119 Post Rd., Darien, CT. A Mass of Christian Burial will
 Rudolph Stewart, for 29 years a  behind-the-scenes presence at Carnegie Hall, died in New York on  Wednesday. He as 74. A spokesman for Carnegie Hall said the cause was liver cancer. Mr. Stewart began at Carnegie Hall in 1970 as an usher, moving to the job of head usher and 
 Stanley D. Canter, who advised many of the world's best-known corporations on marketing and advertising matters during a career that spanned more than 40 years, died April 24 at the Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Hospital in New York City, according to a longtime business associate. Th
 T. Justin Moore Jr., a retired chief executive of the Virginia Power Company and a founder of an economic development group that sought to break down racial barriers in Richmond, died of cancer on April 24 at his home in Richmond, a family spokesman said. He was 74. Mr. Moore was as
 Dane N. Bath, a former picture editor of The New York Times and The Chicago Tribune, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived in Parsippany, N.J. The causes were cardiac arrest and complications related to diabetes, his wife, Patricia, said.        
 Ernest A. Gross, a diplomat and an international lawyer who was closely involved in issues of war and peace from the Korean War to decolonization and disarmament, died on Sunday at his home in New York City. He was 92. Mr. Gross, whose life as a diplomat began in 1931, when he joine
 Joe Adcock, the Milwaukee Braves' strapping first baseman who put on some of baseball's most remarkable displays of power hitting and broke up the longest no-hit game in major league history, died yesterday at his home in Coushatta, La. He was 71. He had Alzheimer's disease, his fam
 ABRAMS-Arthur. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership, extend deepest condolences to Judy Steinhardt, her husband Michael and the entire family on the passing of Judy's beloved father, Arthur Abrams. May his inspiration enhan
 CRIMMINS-Edward C. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and fellow Player who passed away on April 20, 1999. He served with distinction on the Board of the Players and the Hampden Booth Library. He was a wonder greeter of guests and a welcome sight in the Grill. Our thoughts and love go to 
 GOLDSHOLL-Leon Harold, 79. On May 3, 1999. Of Rego Park, NY. Devoted husband of Evelyn for 53 years, beloved father to Ann Lynn Varsano and David Goldsholl, adoring grandfather of Joshua, Douglas and Jamie. Raised in Bronx, NY and Springfield, Mass., before graduating from DeWitt Clinton Hi
 O'NEIL-James Martin. 71. Of New York City on May 1, 1999. Beloved husband of Anne Kennedy O'Neil. Devoted father of Anne Ocampo of New York City, and Martin O'Neil of Hong Kong. Loving grandfather of Molly, Julie, James, Mariko, and Anna. Mass of Christian Burial will be held at the Church 
 OGILVIE-Dr. John B. Passed away late Saturday evening, May 1, 1999, in his home in Riverside, CT. Dr. Ogilvie was born in New York City, March 3, 1910. He was a graduate of Yale College ('31) and Yale School of Medicine ('34). Dr. Ogilvie served as a surgeon with the rank of Captain in the 
 ROSENTHAL-Robert L. The Board of Directors of The 360 East 72nd Street Owners Corporation mourn the loss of their esteemed Past President, Robert L. Rosenthal. A veteran of World War II (U.S.M.C.), attorney and community activist, he will be missed by all. Our deepest sympathy to his devote
 STANLEY-David A., Sr., of Summerfield, FL, formerly of Long Island, died May 2, 1999, at Ocala Regional Medical Center in Ocala, FL. Born October 7, 1931. Retired from the New York Times four years ago after 43 years as a Makeup Supervisor. He was a member of St. Timothy's Catholic Church i
 SUBKOFF-Allen, 63. Third-generation antique dealer, died peacefully at home surrounded by his loving family, April 30, 1999. Memorial service Wednesday, May 5, at 2 P.M., at Eternal Light Funeral Home, 17250 West Dixie Highway, North Miami Beach, Florida. Loving brother to George, and uncle
 TOPCHIK-Wolf B., 102, of Bethesda, MD, formerly of Passaic, NJ, on May 2, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Libby nee Pruzansky, loving father of Robert J., Dr. Abraham, and Sylvia Levine. Dear brother of Martin, Alfred, and George. Dear grandfather of 10 grandchildren and nine greatgrandch
 WOODWARD-William, III. On May 2, 1999. Husband of Lisa and father of Elizabeth. Servcies at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, 5th Ave at 53 St. Thursday 11am, Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the William Woodward, Jr. Nursery School, 436 E. 69 St, NYC 10021 or the Ce
 Roderick Thorp, a former private investigator whose best-selling crime novels became successful films, was found dead on Wednesday  at his home in Oxnard, Calif. He was 62. He appeared to have died three days earlier after a heart attack, said a son, Roderick Thorp 3d of Camarillo, 
 Ronald Alley, a longtime staff member of the Tate Gallery in London and its first Keeper of the Modern Collection, died on April 25 in London. He was 73. His family did not announce the cause of death. After studying art history at the Courtauld Institute in London, Mr. Alle
 Harry L. Kavetas, the chief financial officer who helped lead the Eastman Kodak Company through a huge financial upheaval that involved sweeping job cuts over the last few years, died yesterday at his home in Rochester. He was 61. The cause was an apparent heart attack, the company 
 DesJARDINS-Kymson Ford (aka Mark). Age 47, died March 29, in Florida. Attorney, businessman and activist, Mr. DesJardins, formerly of Cos Cob, CT, moved to Ft. Lauderdale two years ago. Mr. DesJardins practiced law in Ft. Lauderdale, Manhattan, and Detroit. He was a principal of Ehrlich & C
 GROSS-Allen. 78. On May 4, 1999 of cancer. His passing is marked with great sorrow by Helene, his wife of forty-eight years, his children Daniel, Laurie, and Martin. His sister Carolyn, and his five grandchildren. He was a NYC teacher and school administrator and above all, a family man. He
 KALMAN-Tibor. The American Institute of Graphic Arts celebrates the extraordinary contributions Tibor Kalman made to design, always with wit and irony, even as designers nationwide mourn his loss. He nurtured some, goaded many and fascinated us all. Michael Bierut, President Richard Grefe, 
 LEIBOWITZ-Henry. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 OESTREICHER-Anthony J., 59, suddenly of cardiac arrest on May 3. A resident of Bernardsville, NJ, Tony graduated Dartmouth College in 1961. He was Creative Director for ad agencies in Chicago and New York and enjoyed writing for AT&T Solutions. Tony was active in his church and community th
 SAUERHAFT-Sidney J. Of Chappaqua, NY, May 3, 1999. Husband of Helen (Sammet) Sauerhaft. Father of David, Daniel, Beth and Rebecca Sauerhaft. Brother of the late Max Sauerhaft. Grandfather of six. Funeral Service will be held at the Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY, on Wednesday, 12:0
 SOLDWEDEL-Kipp, 86. On April 30th, at Lenox Hill Hospital. Recognized as one of the country's leading maritime artists. Yale graduate, Prix de Rome Scholarship. Beloved husband of Sally Backun Soldwedel, father of Peter. Trustee, National Art Museum of Sport; member, NY Yacht Club; member, 
 WOODWARD-William III. On May 2, 1999. Beloved husband of Lisa and adoring father of Elizabeth, a kind and caring friend of many. Private services at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, 5th Avenue at 53rd Street, Thursday. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced at a future date. Contri
 Tibor Kalman, a graphic designer whose innovative ideas about art and society helped change the way a generation of designers and their clients viewed the world, died on Sunday at the Hyatt Dorado Hotel near San Juan, P.R. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kalman decided to spen
 William Woodward 3d, whose society family was known as much for its violent deaths as for its wealth, died Sunday on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after a 14-story plunge from his apartment. He was 54. A police official said that Mr. Woodward had been under psychiatric care and n
 Dr. J. John Sepkoski Jr., a professor and paleontologist at the University of Chicago who conducted important research illuminating large-scale patterns of evolution in the fossil record, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 50. The cause was heart failure related to high
 BARLOW-Tony. On May 4. Born Milton McClintock Barlow and known to all as Tony, he was the beloved husband of Priscilla Winn Barlow, devoted father of Ethan and Benjamin, stepfather of Philippa and Nicola, loving brother of John Barlow and Sally Ittmann and dear son of Georgette Barlow of Ka
 BERTRAND-Maurice A. Age 75, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL, died suddenly on Sunday afternoon, May 2, 1999. Former New York City restaurateur of LeManoir, Clos Normand, La Rotisserie. Survivors include his beautiful wife, Genevieve and loving brother, Valentin. Service May 6 at Price Funeral Hom
 DEAVERS-Karl A. The board of Trustees, Headmaster, Faculty, Staff, and the Collegiate School community mourn the loss of former Trustee Karl A. Deavers. Mr. Deavers, an Elder of the Collegiate Church, served the school as a Trustee from 1987 to 1993. As an officer of the Board, his guidance
 KALMAN-Tibor. The Architectural League notes with great sadness the death of the designer, humanist, and provocateur Tibor Kalman. Tibor stirred things up, brilliantly. His absence will leave a huge hole in the design community, in NY and internationally. Frank Lupo, President Rosalie Genev
 KAVETAS-Harry L. May 4, 1999 of Rochester and New Canaan, CT. He is survived by his wife, Sue; children, Betsy Kavetas & Lowell Paddock of Frankfurt, Germany, James and Caroline Kavetas of Westport, CT., and Kathy & Adam Rothschild of Chappaqua, NY; grandchildren, Ellen & William Rothschild
 KLEBER-Dennis R. On May 4, 1999 of Muttontown, NY. Owner along with his wife Patricia of Hav-A-Home Kennels. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Brumby). Survived by brothers Robert, Ray and Charles. Cherished son-in-law of Elizabeth. Dear brother-in-law of Gladi and Roberta. Memorial Service 
 McMILLAN-Michael John, 53. Of West Bloomfield, MI., died on Wednesday, May 5, after a valiant fight against cancer. He was a partner with Ernst & Young LLP, Detroit. Upon graduation from the University of Toledo, he joined the Toledo office of Arthur Young and Co. Mr. McMillan was a residen
 RUGOFF-Ralph Joseph. On May 4, 1999 in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Janice. Dear father of Stephanie Rugoff Locker and Ruth Rugoff Potischman. Loving grandfather of Philip Benjamin Locker and Joseph Ralph Potischman. Dear brother of Milton. Father-in-law to Michael Locker and Harold Po
 SHAPIRO-Rabbi David. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Rabbi David Shapiro, beloved father of our esteemed colleague, Judith Saxe. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Post, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor
 SIEGLER-John G. On May 3, 1999. Beloved brother of Thomas, Richard and Paul. Also survived by his 17 beloved nieces and nephews and 31 grand nieces and nephews. Reposing at the James RomanelliStephen Funeral Home, 89-01 Rockaway Boulevard, Ozone Park Friday, 2 to 5 and 7 to 10 PM. Mass of t
 STERN-Herman. The Officers, Trustees and staff of Jewish Child Care Association note with sorrow the death of Herman Stern. Mr. Stern came to Jewish Child Care Association's Edenwald Center in 1957 and retired in 1982 as the institution's Director. His devotion to troubled young people was 
 WALDRON-James. The Board of Governors of The New York College of Osteopathic Medicine (NYCOM) of New York Institute of Technology mourns the loss of James Waldron, beloved and devoted father of Brian Waldron, D.O., a graduate of NYCOM and member of the Board. Heartfelt condolences are exten
 WOODWARD-William III. On May 2, 1999. Beloved husband of Lisa and adoring father of Elizabeth, a kind and caring friend of many. Private services at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, 5th Avenue at 53rd Street, Thursday. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced at a future date. Contri
 Paul James Henry, a New York lawyer who served as chairman of the New York Health and Hospitals Corporation during the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, died Saturday at his home in Grasmere, N.Y. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Henry was a direct
 Tony Barlow, a lawyer, banker and philanthropist who became active in religious efforts to encourage socially responsible investing, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center-Petrie Division in lower Manhattan. He was 62 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause w
 Sir William Hunter McCrea, a British astronomer and mathematician who as a young researcher advanced the knowledge of the Sun's composition and more recently set forth his own theories on the formation of planetary systems and galaxies, died April 25. He was 94 and lived in Lewes, Sussex.  
 Americo Paredes, a writer, folklorist and one of the founders of the Chicano studies movement in the 1960's, died on Wednesday at Specialty Hospital in Austin, Tex. He was 83. At the time of his death Mr. Paredes was professor emeritus of English and anthropology at the University o
 Daniel Hoffman, a former New York City judge in Criminal Court, died on April 23 at his home in Tamarac, Fla. He was 91. Judge Hoffman had been active in the Republican Party, and in 1937, Mayor Fiorella H. La Guardia named him a city marshal, a job he held until 1960, when he becam
 Louis R. Ross, a former vice chairman of the Ford Motor Company who oversaw the introduction in 1985 of the Ford Taurus, which became one of its most successful cars and helped the company recover from low profits and quality problems, died on Sunday in Naples, Fla. He was 67. Neith
 BARLOW-Tony. On May 4. Born Milton McClintock Barlow and known to all as Tony. He was the beloved husband of Priscilla Winn Barlow, devoted father of Ethan and Benjamin, step-father of Philippa and Nicola, loving brother of John Barlow and Sally Ittmann and dear son of Georgette Barlow of K
 BERGMAN-Dr. Robert P. The Trustees, members and staff of the Association of Art Museum Directors mourn the death of Dr. Robert P. Bergman, Director of The Cleveland Museum of Art, and Former President of the Association. His leadership, intellect, and sense of humor will be missed by all of
 COLE-Abraham. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member, Howie Cole, and family on the loss of his beloved father. May the families be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 EVERITT-Edgar Rogers. On May 5th, age 83 of Great Neck, New York. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Dear devoted father of Sue Hudgins, Judith and David. Loving grandfather of Charles, Karen and James Bohovich, Ethan and Seth Abrams, and Anthony & Gregory Everitt, and great grandfather of Kristin 
 FRASIER-Dudley. 75. Died after a brief illness on May 2. A graduate of Harvard, he was Publicity Director at Little Brown in Boston for several years. He then moved to New York where he worked at Rinehart before becoming an executive editor at Popular Library and New American Library. He la
 PAYTON-Scott J. On May 1, 1999. Beloved son of Doris Payton-Jacobs and the late Ralph W. Payton, loving brother of Heather K. Payton, Jasmine C.S. Jacobs, adored stepson of Brian L. Jacobs. He is mourned by two nieces, aunts, uncles, cousins and numerous friends. Friends may call at Frank E
 SCHONFELD-Philip. On Saturday, May 1, 1999, of East Orange, N.J. Memorial contributions in his memory may be made to the United Jewish Appeal of Metro West, 901 Route 10, Whippany, N.J. 07981.       
 SCHWARTZ-Gene. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Toni and Douglas, beloved brother of Bob, died May 4, 1999. Gene was both an owner and a well liked and respected creative director of Laurie Records. He discovered and produced Hall of Famer Dion. He was also responsible for recor
 ZELNER-Hyman. Of Brooklyn, New York, in his 95th year. Passed away May 4, 1999. Will be remembered with love by Anna, his wife of 66 years; his sons, Martin and Larry, and their wives, Barbara and Marjorie; and his grandchildren, Bennet, Emily and Jonathan. Dedicated officer and active memb
 Robert P. Bergman, director of the Cleveland Museum of Art since 1993 and a nationally recognized spokesman for arts institutions, died yesterday at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He would have been 54 on May 17. Mr. Bergman died after a two-week illness with a rare blood disord
 Dr. Stanley Lawrence Rosenthal, a former Government meteorologist who advanced the technology of tracking the formation and movements of hurricanes, died on April 24 at his home in Miami. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Dr. Rosenthal spent 33 yea
 Leon Hess, who took over his family's bankrupt fuel-oil business during the Depression and built it into a major petroleum company, but was perhaps best known as the steadfast owner of the long-foundering New York Jets football team, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He wa
 BEGGANS-James P. Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of James P. Beggans, Jr., a member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 de ROHAN-John, 94. Died May 6, 1999. Born in Ireland, he lived in NY and Princeton, NJ since 1920. He was the husband of the late Mona Revis. He was an investment advisor on Wall Street and in Princeton. He is survived by many nieces and nephews here and in Ireland. For information, please 
 HAUPT-Elliot. Age 78. On May 6, 1999. Adoring father of Vicki and Steven. Brother of Melville and Blanche. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Sunday 2-4PM and 7-9PM. Funeral service Monday, May 10, at 9:45AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
 HESS-Leon. Peacefully on May 7, 1999 of complications from a blood disorder. Beloved husband of Norma; cherished father of Constance and Dr. Sankey Williams, Marlene Hess and James Zirin, John and Susan Hess; adored grandfather of Elizabeth and Jennifer Williams, Peter and Margaret Friedlan
 LEVIE-Richard R. Of New York City, on May 7, 1999. Survived by his beloved wife, Jeanne, and his very loving brother and sister-inlaw, Howard Levie and Blanche Levie. Dick's warmth, friendship and kindness will be deeply missed by all who knew him.       
 LEVY-Gilbert. Of Princeton, NJ. Devoted husband, father, grandfather. Preceded in death by his wife Roslyn and grandson Samuel Alpert. Survived by daughter and son-in-law Andrea and Arnold Alpert of Columbus, Ohio, son and daughter-in-law Joel and Rae Levy of Richmond, Virginia, grandson Mi
 LIPTON-Louis J. Age 78. On May 6, 1999. Survived by his wife Lini and son Peter. A righteous man, loved and respected by his family and friends. Services on Sunday 12:30pm. Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St. Interment at Westchester Hills Cemetery. Contributions may be made to
 MANTEL-Henry, Zvi Hirsch Ben Menachem Mendel, 84. Del Ray Beach, FL. Devoted husband of Ruth Mantel, loving father of Michael Mantel, Marsha Wagner and their spouses Anne Mantel, Leon Wagner, and Andrea Harmon. Grandfather of Gabriel, Daniel and Samuel. Henry was born and raised in Vienna, 
 PAYTON-Scott J. On May 1, 1999. Beloved son of Doris Payton-Jacobs and the late Ralph W. Payton, loving brother of Heather K. Payton, Jasmine C.S. Jacobs, adored stepson of Brian L. Jacobs. He is mourned by two nieces, aunts, uncles, cousins and numerous friends. Friends may call at Frank E
 SALTON-Lewis L. On May 5, 1999, after a brief illness, peacefully and without pain. Beloved husband of Edith, proud father of William, Gillian & Justine, and devoted friend to Bonzo and Lucia. Born in Krakow in 1911, received M.S. in engineering from Brno, Czechoslovakia before escaping the
 Dirk Bogarde, who transformed himself from Britain's top matinee idol into a serious actor at the age of 40 and became an international star, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported, quoting a nephew, Brock Van den
 Donald Stewart, a screenwriter who won an Academy Award for ''Missing,'' the 1982 Constantin Costa-Gavras film, died on April 28 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan. Mr. Stewart and Mr. Costa-Gavras were co-writers of the screenpl
 Maj. John Howard, the commander of glider-borne British infantrymen who seized the strategically vital Pegasus Bridge in the first battle of the D-Day invasion of Normandy, died Wednesday in a hospital in Surrey, England. He was 86 and had lived in Burford, near Oxford. Under cover 
 Leon Barzin, musical director of the New York City Ballet in the 1940's and 50's and the head of the National Orchestra Association for 36 years, died April 29 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 98. Mr. Barzin played ''a quiet but prominent part in the musical life of the country,''
 Lewis L. Salton, who built a business selling what he liked to call ''oddball appliances,'' died on Wednesday after a brief illness, his wife, Edith, said last week. He was 87. Mr. Salton was born in Krakow, Poland, in 1911 and received a Master of Science degree in engineering in B
 BARLOW-Tony. On May 4. Born Milton McClintock Barlow and known to all as Tony. He was the beloved husband of Priscilla Winn Barlow, devoted father of Ethan and Benjamin, step-father of Philippa and Nicola, loving brother of John Barlow and Sally Ittmann and dear son of Georgette Barlow of K
 BLAKE-Arnold, M.D. Of Longmeadow, MA., on May 3, 1999. Brother of the late Dr. Melvin Blake of New York City. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Prominent and compassionate pediatrician. His passing leaves a void in our hearts that will never be filled.       
 de ROHAN-John, 94. Died May 6, 1999. Born in Ireland, he lived in NY and Princeton, NJ since 1920. He was the husband of the late Mona Revis. He was an investment advisor on Wall Street and in Princeton. He is survived by many nieces and nephews here and in Ireland. For information, please 
 FUHRMAN-John W. Died on May 7, 1999 at Lloyd Harbor, NY. He was the son of Jacob J. and Christina (nee Merkel) Fuhrmann of Jamaica Estates, NY. Interment at The Evergreens, Brooklyn, NY and St. John's Middle Village, NY.       
 GLAUBMAN-Joshua. On May 6, 1999, age 97. Beloved husband of the late Sophie. Dear uncle to Richard Glaubman and Carol Kroch, great-uncle to four. He will be deeply missed. Service Monday 1 PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 HAUPT-Elliot. Age 78. On May 6, 1999. Adoring father of Vicki and Steven. Brother of Melville and Blanche. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Sunday 2-4PM and 7-9PM. Funeral service Monday, May 10, at 9:45AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
 HESLIN-James. Dr. James Heslin, former director of the New York Historical Society, passed away on April 30th at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital, New York. Dr. Heslin was the husband of the late Phyllis Heslin and brother of the late Daniel and Helen Heslin. He is survived by his sister Mary 
 HESS-Leon. Peacefully on May 7, 1999 of complications from a blood disorder. Beloved husband of Norma; cherished father of Constance and Dr. Sankey Williams, Marlene Hess and James Zirin, John and Susan Hess; adored grandfather of Elizabeth and Jennifer Williams, Peter and Margaret Friedlan
 LEAVENWORTH-Randolph J. III (Randy). Of Los Angeles, California. Beloved and devoted husband to Roberta Canale Leavenworth. Loving and devoted father to Alexandra and Nicole. Much beloved son of Serene Leavenworth Felt, and Randolph Leavenworth. Jr. passed away Wednesday, May 5, 1999. His l
 LEE-Dr. Man-Bun, on May 1, 1999. The Board of Directors, staff, and students of Chinatown Manpower Project mourn the sudden passing of its Chairman, a community leader who tirelessly worked to better the lives of Chinese immigrants. Our deepest sympathy to his family.       
 LEVY-Gilbert. Of Princeton, NJ. Devoted husband, father, grandfather. Preceded in death by his wife Roslyn and grandson Samuel Alpert. Survived by daughter and son-in-law Andrea and Arnold Alpert of Columbus, Ohio, son and daughter-in-law Joel and Rae Levy of Richmond, Virginia, grandson Mi
 LIPTON-Louis J. Age 78. On May 6, 1999. Survived by his wife Lini and son Peter. A righteous man, loved and respected by his family and friends. Services on Sunday 12:30pm. Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St. Interment at Westchester Hills Cemetery. Contributions may be made to
 LIVERANT-Jacob. We extend our sincerest condolences to Alex Liverant and Dorothy Goldberg on the loss of their beloved father. Mr. Liverant, together with his wife, Dina, were devoted friends and Golden Founders of the Medical Center. They will always be remembered for their generous suppor
 MANTEL-Henry, Zvi Hirsch Ben Menachem Mendel, 84. Del Ray Beach, FL. Devoted husband of Ruth Mantel, loving father of Michael Mantel, Marsha Wagner and their spouses Anne Mantel, Leon Wagner, and Andrea Harmon. Grandfather of Gabriel, Daniel and Samuel. Henry was born and raised in Vienna, 
 RENUCCI-Raymond. The French Institute Alliance Francaise mourns the loss of our beloved colleague and friend. A first class professor of French specializing in business, Mr. Renucci held an MBA degree from the Institut d' Etudes Politiques in Paris and a law degree from the Paris Law School
 ROSENTHAL-Robert L. The Board of Directors of The 360 East 72nd Street Owners Corporation mourn the loss of their esteemed Past President, Robert L. Rosenthal. A veteran of World War II (U.S.M.C.), attorney and community activist, he will be missed by all. Our deepest sympathy to his devote
 STRAUSS-Joseph. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Joseph Strauss, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him be
 WEINDLING-Leon David. Of Manhattan. On May 8, at 78 years of age. Beloved husband of Sonia Weindling. Devoted father of Suzanne Burakoff and Steven Weindling and father-in-law of Dr. Steven Burakoff. Adored grandfather of Alexis Weindling Burakoff and brother of Irene Probstein and Irwin We
 WINTER-Marvin S. 78. Of Manhattan and Delray Beach, FL, on May 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of Benjamin and Susan Winter, James and Susan Winter, Douglas and Bonnie Winter, and Karen (Winter) and Barry Miller. Loving grandfather of David, Alison, Jennifer, Stacy, Kira
 BENBOW-Terence H. A memorial service for Dean Emeritus and Professor of Law Terence H. Benbow will be held Sunday, June 6, 1999 at 4PM in the Grand Courtroom of the Quinnipiac College School of Law. The Law School is located at 275 Mount Carmel Ave, Hamden, CT 06518-1947. Telephone 203-281-
 Dennis Riley, a prolific composer with an extensive catalog of works published by C. F. Peters, died on Thursday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 55. The cause was AIDS, said his daughter Alice. Mr. Riley was born in Los Angeles and grew up in Lakewood, Colo. He rec
 Dirk Bogarde, who transformed himself from Britain's top matinee idol into a serious actor at the age of 40 and became an international star, died on Saturday at his home in London. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported, quoting a nephew, Brock Van d
 Dr. David Fox, a physicist who was blacklisted and indicted for contempt when he refused to testify fully before the House Un-American Activities Committee at the dawn of what would become known as the McCarthy era, died last Monday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was
 Irving (Fishbones) Stevens, who became a folk hero in Maine for his tales of hobo life in the 1930's and his success developing a foul-smelling insect repellent called Irving's Fly Dope, died at the home of his sister Dorothy Glazier in Pittsfield, Me., on Tuesday. He was 88 years old.     
 James J. Heslin, a former director of the New-York Historical Society, died on April 30 at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. Dr. Heslin, who had a master's degree in library science from Columbia University and a doctorate in American history from Boston Univers
 Man Bun Lee, sometimes known as the ''Mayor of Chinatown'' for his many public activities, including his long service as president of the Chinatown Consolidated Benevolent Association, the Manhattan neighborhood's largest civic organization, died at New York University Downtown Hospital on 
 BARLOW-Tony. On May 4. Born Milton McClintock Barlow and known to all as Tony. He was the beloved husband of Priscilla Winn Barlow, devoted father of Ethan and Benjamin, step-father of Philippa and Nicola, loving brother of John Barlow and Sally Ittmann and dear son of Georgette Barlow of K
 BAXTER - Stephen Barrington. Age 37, award winning photojournalist for KXTV Channel 10, died of accidental causes on April 22, in Seattle, WA, while on assignment. In 1996, Baxter won an Emmy for outstanding individual achievement in news photography and was named photographer of the year i
 DOBRER-Bernard. Passed away on Saturday, May 8, 1999. Survived by his beloved wife Annette; devoted daughters Marilyn and Georgia and son-in-law Nathaniel; grandchildren David, Jodie, Cheryl, Lisa, Thomas; great-grandson Justin; and brother Milton. Graveside services and interment will take
 HESS-Leon. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of Leon Hess, a Member of the Association since 1969 and an Advisory Director since 1977. We recall with deep affection his commitment to the Met, including very generous leadership participation in all asp
 KOTCHER-Harry A. On May 8, 1999. Beloved, of wife Shirley. Loving father of Leslie and Robert Shusterman, and Dana and Lawrence Choy. Proud grandfather of Cary and Andrew Choy. Devoted son of the late Gabriel and Carrie. Brother of Adele Sanders and Ruth Steinberg. Loving uncle of several n
 MANTEL-Henry, Zvi Hirsch Ben Menachem Mendel, 84. Del Ray Beach, FL. Devoted husband of Ruth Mantel, loving father of Michael Mantel, Marsha Wagner and their spouses Anne Mantel, Leon Wagner, and Andrea Harmon. Grandfather of Gabriel, Daniel and Samuel. Henry was born and raised in Vienna, 
 STRAUSS-Joseph. On May 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Betty Strauss. Loving father of Kathie Strauss and Susan Hurwitz. Adored grandfather of Lily and Nicholas Strauss-Matathia and Leigh and Annie Hurwitz. Father-in-law of Ira Matathia and Harlan Hurwitz. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell,
 WEINDLING-Leon David. Of Manhattan. On May 8, at 78 years of age. Beloved husband of Sonia Weindling. Devoted father of Suzanne Burakoff and Steven Weindling and father-in-law of Dr. Steven Burakoff. Adored grandfather of Alexis Weindling Burakoff and brother of Irene Probstein and Irwin We
 WINTER-Marvin S. 78. Of Manhattan and Delray Beach, FL, on May 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of Benjamin and Susan Winter, James and Susan Winter, Douglas and Bonnie Winter, and Karen (Winter) and Barry Miller. Loving grandfather of David, Alison, Jennifer, Stacy, Kira
 Edwin L. Dale Jr., a former economics reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times who later explained the intricacies of supply-side economics as a budget spokesman in the Reagan Administration, died today at the Washington Hospice. He was 75 and was visiting in Washingt
 Gilbert Millstein, who wrote an early review of Jack Kerouac's novel ''On the Road'' that helped establish the fame of both Kerouac and the Beat Generation, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney
 ANDERSON-Chris (Arturo Fortunato Palma). Died May 7, 1999. Born on November 15th, 1928, to Luigi and Elvira Palma. Theatrical entrepreneur, author, producer, actor and artist. Survived by his wife, Sharon; daughter, Dr. Melody Anderson; sister, Ann Confessore, and numerous nieces and nephew
 BARTIMER-Herman. Tifereth Israel-Town & Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland President Carol J. Green       
 BARZIN-Leon. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board, Robert I. Lipp, President of the Board of Directors and the entire New York City Ballet deeply mourn the passing of Maestro Leon Barzin, one of the 20th Century's leading conductors and musical innova
 BERKELHAMMER - Joel. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its devoted members, Lisa Ziv and Dr. Leslie Berkelhammer. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterh
 CAPECI-Theodore J., M.D. Of Scarsdale, NY on May 8, 1999. Husband of Patricia A. Lohse. Father of Susan Capeci, Ellen Fithian. Grandfather of four. Former husband of Margaret Hyatt. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, between the hours of 2:00 and 4:00 and 7
 CHARIG-Jack H., Dr.. On May 9, 1999. Prominent Doctor of Dentistry. Beloved husband and best friend to Laura. Most devoted father to Bianca, David, Jeffrey and Candace. Adoring grandfather to Samantha. Interment private. Memorial Service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St., Wed
 GOLDSTEIN-Leonard. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our member Marvin Goldstein on the loss of his beloved father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 HESS-Leon. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University mourn the passing of Leon Hess, a steadfast friend for more than 20 years and a former member of the RU Council. His quiet generosity helped to shape many of New York City's academic, medical, and cultural in
 HOLTZBERG-Walter M.. On May 9, 1999. Loving husband of Joan, father of Celia (Larry) and Diana. Brother of Norman and Sam, brother-in-law of Steve, grandfather of Maxwell and stepfather of Stacey and David. A dear friend to many. He lived life to the fullest, fought a courageous battle and 
 HUGONNET-Ernest Henri. On May 9, 1999. Survived by his wife, Barbara; his sons, Mitchell and Peter; daughter-in-law, Pamela, and grandchildren, Madeleine and Emma. A memorial service will be held at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church (enter at 73rd Street entrance), on Saturday, at 2 PM. Pr
 HUSTED-John G.W. Jr.. Died on May 9, 1999 in Boston, Ma. of a sudden illness at the age of 72. A resident of Nantucket, Ma. Mr. Husted moved in 1939 to Bedford, NY from England. He attended St. Paul's School, graduating in 1949, and served in the American Field Service throughout the Europe
 KLEIN-Stewart, 66. The well known film and theater critic, of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of Hillsdale, NJ, died May 10, 1999. He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Bartenope; their son, Matthew; three children from his first marriage, Marjorie, Joseph and Joann; and two grandchildren. 
 LEVY-Gilbert. Of Princeton, New Jersey, and Boynton Beach, Florida. Cousin of William I. Wolff, M.D., and close friend of the entire Wolff family which individually and collectively held him with high regard and affection. He will be sorely missed by all.       
 McGEE-Joseph G.. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Joseph G. McGee, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 SCHWARZ-Lotte. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University in Israel mourn the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed benefactor Miguel Schwarz. We extend to Miguel and all his loved ones our sincerest condolences. His philanthropies were a source of pride to her even as he continues
 SPECHLER-Daniel S.., 82. Died on Saturday, May 8, 1999. Beloved husband of Betty abd devoted father of Eleanor and Laura. He is remembered with love by his sons-in-law Dr. Jeffrey Ainspan and Robert Elton, and his grandchildren Liane and Eric. He was an accomplished Chemical Engineer and ho
 STRAUSS-Joseph. On May 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Betty Strauss. Loving father of Kathie Strauss and Susan Hurwitz. Adored grandfather of Lily and Nicholas Strauss-Matathia and Leigh and Annie Hurwitz. Father-in-law of Ira Matathia and Harlan Hurwitz. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell,
 WINTER-Marvin S.. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of a good friend, Marvin S. Winter, a dedicated supporter and champion of Jewish causes who left a legacy of philanthropy embraced by his family. Marvin and his beloved wife, Eleanor, 
 Shel Silverstein, whose goofy, gross and macabre yet always enchanting poetry for children sold more than 14 million books, was found dead yesterday morning at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 67. Neither the time nor cause of death had been determined yesterday afternoon, said She
 Stewart Klein, a music, film and theater critic for Channel 5 in New York since 1967, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Lee, N.J. He was 66. The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Barbara, said. Mr. Klein won three local Emmy awards for his work, including one for a review i
 Dr. James J. Humes, one of two Navy pathologists who performed the autopsy on President John F. Kennedy, died on Thursday at his home in Ponte Vedra, Fla. He was 74. The cause was lung cancer, his son James Jr. said. Dr. Humes and his colleague, Dr. J. Thornton Boswell, conc
 Norman Weissman, a former president of the Ruder Finn public relations agency in New York, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74 years old. The cause of death was cancer, according to a statement from Norman Weissman Inc., the firm he most recently headed, in Manhattan.
 BENEDICT-William John. New York and Weston, VT, on May 10, 1999. Loving husband of Helen, devoted father of Barbara B. Price and William J. Benedict, Jr.; father-in-law of Catherine and Joseph; loving grandfather of Alexander, Nicky, Will, Louis, and Liza. Services private. Contributions in
 GALLET-Gerard. Died Paris May 7, 1999. Born 1935. Survived by his wife Francoise and her children and his former wife Sally and their daughter Tabisa. Interment Paris private. His friends in New York.       
 GORDON-Evan W., M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn was very saddened to hear about the death of Dr. Evan W. Gordon. Dr. Gordon was an active member of the department for a period of 16 years at State University 
 GRANADY-Dr. Alwyn Hershaw, a 35-year resident of New Rochelle, N.Y., passed away Sunday, May 9, at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 74 yrs old. After serving as a sergeant in the United States Army during World War II, Dr. Granady completed his undergraduate and medical education at H
 HESS-Leon. The Board of Directors, Staff, children and families of Berkshire Farm Center and Services for Youth express our deepest sorrow on the passing of Leon Hess. He was a valued supporter of Berkshire Farms Center for many years. The Hess Automotive Facility, a vocational training pro
 KOPPLE-Alfred S. Textile executive, passed away on Sunday, May 9, 1999 at the age of 80. He was a highly decorated officer in the Air Force during World War II. He was greatly adored by his wife of 55 years, Marjorie, his daughter, Barbara and son, Peter. His grandchildren, Nicholas, Hilary
 LEVY-Gilbert. Of Princeton, New Jersey, and Boynton Beach, Florida. Cousin of William I. Wolff, M.D., and close friend of the entire Wolff family which individually and collectively held him with high regard and affection. He will be sorely missed by all.       
 RITTMAN-William Campbell, of Bronxville, NY, died suddenly, May 10, 1999. He was a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School. During World War II Major Rittman flew B25's in the 14th Air Force Squadron attached to the Chinese Air Force, spending three years in China. After the war,
 WINTER-Marvin S. The Officers and employees of Alliance Brokerage Corp. extend their deepest condolences to the family of Marvin Winter. He will always be remembered as a kind and thoughtful friend.       
 Sir Edward Penley Abraham, a British biochemist and Oxford University professor who contributed greatly to the development of today's medical arsenal of antibiotics, died on Sunday at his home in Oxford. He was 85. He left his mark on biology, chemistry and medicine. Worldwide paten
 Eqbal Ahmad, a political scientist and peace activist who as one of the Harrisburg 7 was accused of planning to abduct Henry A. Kissinger to protest the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday in Islamabad, Pakistan. He was 67 and lived in Islamabad. Mr. Ahmad died when his heart failed after 
 Heinz Werner Berendes, a pediatrician and medical epidemiologist for the National Institutes of Health who pioneered studies of birth-control safety and the care of newborns, died on May 6 at the N. I. H. Clinical Center in suburban Maryland. He was 74 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The
 BAYLEY-James E. The Philosopy Department of City College mourns the loss of Professor James E. Bayley. For more than forty years, he served City College as a devoted teacher and an honorable colleague. Jim's scholarly writings, his teaching and his active participation in the College commun
 FINK-Sam H. Died peacefully in his home on May 11, 1999, at the age of 92. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. He was proud to have served under General Patton in The 244th Field Artillery. He is survived by his two sons and their families, Stephen, Kathy and Rachel Fink, of Manha
 LEE-Man Bun. M.B. Lee will be sadly missed by his many friends at NYU Downtown Hospital. A passionate advocate of accessible healthcare for the people of New York's Chinese community, he was a valued advisor to the Hospital's Board of Trustees and senior management on ways to reach those pe
 LIPTON-Louis J. The Board of Trustees and the staff of The Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art lament the loss of our esteemed trustee and generous supporter, Louis J. Lipton. We pass on our deepest condolences to his wife and family.       
 PALAZZO-Jean. The Board, shareholders and staff of East 67 Tenants Corp extends heartfelt sympathies to Joseph Palazzo and his family on the loss of his beloved mother. Rita C. Chu, President       
 REILLY-Rev. John H. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor of St. AnthonySt. Alphonsus Church, 862 Manhattan Avenue, Brooklyn, on May 12. Reposing at Leahy-McDonald Funeral Home, 111-02 Atlantic Avenue, Richmond Hill, Thursday, May 13, from 2 to 5 and 6 to 10 P.M. and on 
 REINHARDT-Alfred N., age 89. Beloved father, grandfather and great-grandfather, died at his home on May 11th in Miami Beach, Florida, where he has resided for the past seven years with his partner, Ruth Durlacher. He was a seeker and, at the age of 17, came to the U.S., where eventually he 
 SUSSMAN-Samuel J., 88. Beloved husband of Ruth for 60 years. Adored father of Jeremy and Eric. Loving grandfather of Adam, Dana and Jesse. Before his retirement, he was a distinguished trial and appellate attorney. He gave many years of exemplary service to Central Synagogue in Rockville Ce
 VOGEL-Wynn E. Mr. Erwin (Wynn) Vogel known as a true Renaissance man passed away Sunday, May 2nd, 1999. Mr. Vogel was an arranger and composer of music, a poet, a painter and designer, and an author of many ''how to'' books. A member of the Christian Science Youth Forum, Mr. Vogel was also 
 WETTACH-Michael F. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Michael F. Wettach. The son of Fred Wettach, Jr., and Barbara Guggenheim and grandson of Solomon R. Guggenheim, Michael joined the Board of Trustees of The Solomon R. Guggenhe
 Saul Steinberg, the metaphysically minded artist and cartoonist and brooding doodler whose drawings appeared in The New Yorker for more than half a century, elevating comic illustration to fine art, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Steinberg was compared to Pi
 Gene Sarazen, whose stylish, effective swing and dogged demeanor made him one of the finest golfers of the 1920's and 30's, died yesterday in Naples, Fla. He was 97. Sarazen died at Naples Community Hospital from complications of pneumonia, said his lawyer, John Cardillo. Hi
 Leon Thomas, a jazz singer known for his bellowing glottal-stop style in free jazz of the 1970's, died on Saturday at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx. He was 61 and lived in the Bronx. The cause was heart failure as a result of leukemia, Karen Dagneau, his tour manager, said. 
 DYE-Peter Sherman. Age 58 of Oakland suddenly on May 11, 1999. Beloved husband of L. Patricia (nee Donnelly) Dye. Devoted son of Jean (nee Forsythe) Dye of Cleveland Heights, OH., loving brother of Kathleen L. Dye of Kingsville, OH., Richard F. Dye of Vernon Hills, IL., Alice D. Maechtlen o
 HECK-Sandy (L.S. Heck, Jr.). died at home in New York City from complications of anorexia on April 16, 1999. He was 49. A freelance writer of architecture and design criticism for publications in New York, London, and Tokyo, he graduated from Oberlin College and studied at the Institute for
 MASI-Joseph Paul. Of NYC. Died May 13, 1999. He was 63. Born October 13, 1935 to Paul and Josephine Sicari Masi in New York. He is survived by a daughter, Michelle Didner of Rye, N.Y., stepson Jimmie Sundstrom of Rye, N.Y., two grandchildren, brother, George of Queens, and a sister Catherin
 McNEIL-Lonnie C.. On May 10, 1999. Of Massachusetts. Beloved son of Johnnie Mae. Also survived by four loving sisters. Grandson of Nettie C. Douglas. Funeral service to be held at Quinn Hopping Funeral Home, Livingston, New Jersey, Sunday, May 16, 12 noon. Visiting prior to service from 9 A
 MICHELL-Jacques Dr.. On Wenesday, May 12, 1999. Loving husband of Irina, father of Monica and grandfather of Isabella. Dr. Michell was a dedicated internist in private practice in New Rochelle for thirty years, and on the staff of the Sound Shore Medical Center. He faced life with courage a
 NEWTON-Robert. S/A/R Academy extends heartfelt condolences to Hilda Newton upon the loss of her beloved husband, friend and longtime Trustee and supporter. May the entire family find comfort in the memory of his many good deeds and acts of charity and kindness. Jack C. Bendheim, President N
 SAYEN-William Henry ''Harry''. Died of heart failure at his home in Princeton, NJ on May 10th. He was 77. He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Isabelle Burns Guthrie of Princeton; his four sons, W. Guthrie of West Hartford, CT, David of Princeton, George, of London and Henry, 
 SHAMBAUGH-James Philip, Sr.. Died May 13, 1999 at his residence in Chevy Chase, MD where he has lived since his wife's death in 1991. Born in Kuling, China June 6, 1914 to American missionary parents, United Evangelical Church. Worked for Socony Vacuum Oil, now Mobil Corp. from 1939-1977 wh
 SUSSMAN-Samuel J.. The members and staff of Hoberman, Sussman and Herman mourn the loss of our former partner and good friend. He was a true professional and always the perfect gentleman. Our sympathy is extended to Ruth, Jamie, Eric and the grandchildren Hoberman, Sussman & Herman       
 TEPPERBERG - Jerome, M.D.. Age 62. On May 12 from complications from cancer after a heroic battle. Cherished husband of Susann. Adored father of Suki, Ricky, Josh, Noah, Judy and Benjamin (deceased). Compassionate physician beloved by students, patients and colleagues. Jerry was the former 
 WEINBERG-Sidney R. age 73. Musician, beloved husband of Karen and father of John Short and Valerie Kaley, died of cancer on May 5. His humor, wisdom and companionship will be greatly missed. A Celebration of his life will be held June 5, Maitland (FL) Art Center. Remembrances may be sent to
 WHITNEY-Edward F.. On May 12, 1999. Beloved brother of Donald H. Whitney of Statesboro, GA. Devoted uncle of Peter D. Whitney of McLean, VA; Mary W. Hoch of Mt. Kisco, NY; Richard Whitney of Annapolis, MD and David Whitney of Malden, MA. He was a graduate of the Horace Mann School and Princ
 Sheik Abdelaziz bin Baz, the pillar of Saudi Arabia's religious establishment and a crucial ally of the royal family, died today in Taif. He was believed to be in his late 80's. The cause was cancer, Saudi religious officials said. Blind since his teens, and frail in his dec
 Frank Stanton, an entrepreneur and real estate investor who developed an early videocassette, died last Sunday at his home in Water Mill, on Long Island. He was 78. He died of complications from Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Domna C. Stanton. Mr. Stanton conducted most
 P. Scott Makela, a graphic and multimedia designer whose audacious experiments helped create the esthetic of new computer-age media, died on May 7 at St. Joseph's Mercy Hospital in Pontiac, Mich. He was 39 and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. The cause was a rare infection of the ep
 ALLEN-Davis B. 82. Six year Fort Lauderdale resident, coming from Hampton, NY, died Thursday, May 13, 1999, in Fort Lauderdale. He was a member of the Yale Club and the Santara Association. Survived by brother Thomas Allen of Santa Fe, NM, and friend Juan Garcia of Fort Lauderdale. A memori
 BUZZEO-Louis. Of Pound Ridge, NY. (husband of Cornelia, deceased). Our loving father passed away peacefully on the morning of May 13, 1999. A WWII veteran, entrepreneur and creative spirit. He will be dearly missed by his brother Mario, his children Paula, Martin, Bernadette, Elizabeth, Mar
 JONES-Rees. Died peacefully on April 27, 1999, at Beth Israel Hospital. Survived by his wife Betty, family members and many friends. He enjoyed life fully with his love of music, travel, lawn bowling, and the company of friends and family. Memorial service will be held at First Presbyterian
 SALEEBY-James T., husband of Evelyn E. (nee Tahan); loving brother of Samir, June Pearson, & Patsy Stein. It is with deep sorrow that we announce the untimely death of James T. Saleeby, born in South Carolina, raised in Lebanon and later in Bay Ridge where he was a renowned figure. He will 
 SCHULMAN-Leo. Died Friday, May 14, 1999. Husband of Florence. Father of Joan and Michael. Grandfather of Dana, Mara, Daniel and Molly. His neices, nephews and extended family will miss him greatly. In loving memory a memorial service will be held Sunday May 16th. at 12:30PM at George T. Dav
 TUGWOOD-Reverend James C. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor of Our Lady of the Snows Church, 258-15 80th Avenue, Floral Park, on May 13. Reposing at Our Lady of Snows Chapel, Saturday, May 15, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 P.M. and on Sunday, May 16, from 2 to 5 P.M. Mass o
 WINTER-Marvin S. The Trustees, Faculty and Administration of New York University School of Medicine and Medical Center profoundly regret the passing of a loyal friend and supporter. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Eleanor, his son James and his entire family. Henry R. Silverma
 James W. Nance, a retired Navy rear admiral who took on a late-career job as the chief aide to his old boyhood friend Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, died on Tuesday at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in McLean, Va. Marc A. Thiessen, the
 Terence H. Benbow, a lawyer and longtime community leader on Staten Island who was also the dean of the Quinnipiac College Law School, died in his sleep on May 4 at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 69 years old. Mr. Benbow was born on June 4, 1929, in Wyandotte, Mich. He earned a
 Thomas C. Cochran, an authority on the economic history of the United States who liked to chronicle how economics and business had touched his fellow citizens' lives, died on May 2 at the Quadrangle retirement center in Haverford, Pa. He was 97. Professor Cochran, a prolific writer,
 C. Earl Leslie, a retired White House artist whose decorative lettering embellished thousands of Government documents and proclamations issued by Presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Dwight D. Eisenhower, died on May 6 at Washington House, a retirement home in Alexandria, Va. He was 91.
 Charles K. McWhorter, an aide to Vice President Richard M. Nixon and later a lawyer for A.T.&T., died on Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston after being injured on May 1 in a car accident on Cape Cod. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan and Los Angeles. Mr. McWhorter wa
 Geoffrey Wigoder, a broadcaster, scholar and editor of Judaica, died on April 9 in Jerusalem. He was 76. The cause was a brain hemorrhage after a fall, said Andre Balog, a friend and colleague. Mr. Wigoder was born in Leeds, England, and earned degrees in medieval Jewish his
 Sir Ian Fraser, a British surgeon whose medical team took penicillin to the wounded on the battlefields of World War II and established that it effectively checked their blood infections, died Tuesday. He was 98 and lived in Belfast. Dr. Fraser was a member of the Royal Army Medical
 Marvin S. Winter, a Manhattan real estate developer for more than 50 years, died on Friday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and had homes in Manhattan and Delray Beach, Fla. The cause of death was heart failure, said his son James, of Rye Brook, N.Y. M
 ALTER-Henry C. Age 80, former Dean of Continuing Education, Cooper Union University, died Thursday. Survived by his wife Ingeborg, sons Andrew and Thomas, nieces Carol Kerfoot, Jackie Pickerell and Sylvia Herd. Funeral Thursday, 12PM, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave., (exit 17, 
 BENBOW-Terence H. The Board and staff of the New York Landmarks Conservancy mourn the death of our former Chairman. He was a dedicated preservationist and admired personally and professionally. Stuart Siegel, Chairman Peg Breen, President       
 BUZZEO-Louis. Of Pound Ridge, NY. (husband of Cornelia, deceased). Our loving father passed away peacefully on the morning of May 13, 1999. A WWII veteran, entrepreneur and creative spirit. He will be dearly missed by his brother Mario, his children Paula, Martin, Bernadette, Elizabeth, Mar
 CAPECI-Theodore, J. MD. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital were saddened to learn of the recent passing of Theodore J. Capeci, MD, Honorary Physician, who joined our Department of Surgery in 1955 and served as the Chief of Plastic Surgery from 1986 until 1988. Dr
 COLE-Newcomb D., Sr. Of Kimball Farms, Lenox, formally of Williamstown, MA and New York City, NY died May 11, 1999. He was a retired Lt. Colonel in the U.S. Air Force Reserves. He held positions with the Debevoise Paint Company, Brooklyn, NY, Chase Manhattan Bank, Green, Ellis & Anderson St
 DEMETRIOU - Kyriacos (''Mr. Kay''). May 14, 1999. Beloved husband of Niki. Loving father of Gloria and father-in-law of Paul Galietti. His noted talents as a barber were well known throughout the world. The contents of his Broadway Barbershop were donated to the Museum of the City of New Yo
 FISCHER-Lester, November 11,1911-April 27,1999 The ''Iron Man of Football,1937 '', after a lengthy illness. Survived by his wife Sylvia, his daughter Mary Lynn and his son-in-law Whitfield Diffie.       
 GOLD-Henry. Of Upper Brookville, NY. Beloved husband of Laura, devoted friend of many. He will be deeply missed. Services Sunday 10 AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 N. Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY.       
 HUNT-Reginald Sayre. On May 12, 1999. Beloved son of the late John T. and Madeleine Hunt; brother of the late Bella Hunt. Retired executive of IBM and Ceridian Corp. Dear friend and valued member of Friendly Sons of St. Patrick and Knights of Columbus. A man who overcame so many obstacles a
 HUZAREVICH-Walter Louis, 79, died Monday, May 10, 1999 in Fort Worth, Texas. Funeral services were held on May 15, in Fort Worth with burial following in Mount Olivet Cemetery. Walter Louis Huzarevich was born December 9, 1919, in Fort Worth, and served in the U.S. Army during WWII as serge
 KLEIN-Howard M. Died peacefully on May 14 after a courageous and dignified battle with lung cancer. Beloved husband of Alice Kulick Klein. Parent and special friend to Renee and Tom Brodie; ''Gramps'' to Isabella. Father of David, Kenneth and the late Amy Shapiro. Brother of Dorothy and the
 McSHERRY-Nancy. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., join with the Department of Surgery in acknowledging with great sadness the death of Nancy McSherry, wife of Charles McSherry, M.D., our beloved friend, respected colleague 
 McWHORTER-Charles K. Age 77, May 10, 1999, from injuries sustained in an automobile accident in Hyannis, MA. Loving brother of Susanna Reckard and brother-inlaw to, Phyllis Mann, uncle to Scott, Frank, Matthew, Charles, Mark, Cheryl, Joseph and Michael. Graduated University of West Virginia
 MIJUSKOVIC-Milutin B. (D.M.S.) The students, faculty, and staff of the New York University College of Dentistry record with profound sadness the loss on May 10, 1999 of our beloved teacher, colleague, and friend, Dr. Milutin ''Mike'' Mijuskovic, Associate Professor of Basic Sciences (Oral M
 ROBERTS-Ralph, age 82, died peacefully on April 30, in Salisbury, N.C. Our deepest sympathy to his sister, Mabel Hoffner, and his nephew and niece, Hap and Annette. Ralph served in World War II and the Korean War and retired as Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve. His acting career,
 SCHULMAN-Leo. Died Friday, May 14, 1999. Husband of Florence. Father of Joan and Michael. Grandfather of Dana, Mara, Daniel and Molly. His neices, nephews and extended family will miss him greatly. In loving memory a memorial service will be held Sunday May 16th. at 12:30PM at George T. Dav
 SMITHSON-Simon, 41. Of New York City. Loving husband of Susan Kang and devoted father of Natalie and Aaron, found peace from cancer on May 10, 1999. Simon graduated from Cambridge University and was a financial analyst for Dresdner, Kleinwort Benson, and Caspian Securities. He had lived and
 STEINBERG-Saul. The American Institute of Graphic Arts will always celebrate the extraordinary creativity and humor with which Saul Steinberg entertained and intrigued the American public. His contributions were timeless, yet graphic designers nationwide will mourn the loss of this AIGA Gol
 Asrat Woldeyes, a British-trained Ethiopian doctor who was a leader of opposition to his country's present Government, died on Friday in the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was in his early 70's. The causes were complications from a heart ailment and g
 DANIEL-Jack D., 59. Passed away on May 14, 1999 at Austin Hospice Christopher House. Of Austin, Texas. After a long illness of cancer. He is survived by his mother, Edith L. Daniel; three brothers, Don, Gordon and Glenn; and a sister, Robin, all of Austin. Donations may be made in his memor
 DEMETRIOU - Kyriacos (''Mr. Kay''). May 14, 1999. Beloved husband of Niki. Loving father of Gloria and father-in-law of Paul Galietti. His noted talents as a barber were well known throughout the world. The contents of his Broadway Barbershop were donated to the Museum of the City of New Yo
 GLEESON-Rev. Joseph M. On May 13, 1999. Ordained for the people of New York on May 29, 1965. Born on March 28, 1939, the son of Joseph M. and Marie White Gleeson. He was raised and educated in New York City, a graduate of Regis High School, Fordham University and Saint Joseph's Seminary. He
 HUNT-Reginald Sayre. On May 12, 1999. Beloved son of the late John T. and Madeleine Hunt; brother of the late Bella Hunt. Retired executive of IBM and Ceridian Corp. Dear friend and valued member of Friendly Sons of St. Patrick and Knights of Columbus. A man who overcame so many obstacles a
 KLEIN-Howard M. Died peacefully on May 14 after a courageous and dignified battle with lung cancer. Beloved husband of Alice Kulick Klein. Parent and special friend to Renee and Tom Brodie; ''Gramps'' to Isabella. Father of David, Kenneth and the late Amy Shapiro. Brother of Dorothy and the
 McWHORTER-Charles K. Age 77, May 10, 1999, from injuries sustained in an automobile accident in Hyannis, MA. Loving brother of Susanna Reckard and brother-inlaw to, Phyllis Mann, uncle to Scott, Frank, Matthew, Charles, Mark, Cheryl, Joseph and Michael. Graduated University of West Virginia
 SILVERMAN-Harold. Age 87 years. Died peacefully in his sleep after a long battle with Alzheimer's disease. Beloved and cherished husband of Evelyn, adored father of Nancy and Norman, grandfather of Morgun and William. Harold was a devoted son, husband and father, who used his gifts of uncom
 STONE-Bernard. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our member Bernard Stone. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to Joan and the family. Joel Jacobson, President       
 ULSTRUP-Carl C. Age 74, of Cumberland, ME, a civil engineer and bridge designer, died of cancer May 11. Mr. Ulstrup grew up in Norway and moved to the United States in 1946 to attend Columbia University. In 1987 he received the prestigious Roebling Award for eminence in design and rehabilit
 WINTER-Hans J. January 2, 1911May 14, 1999. After a short illness. Survived by his wife, Margot; his sister, Ilse; daughter, Dorit; son, Amos; daughter-in-law, Jackie; and grandchildren, Elika and Nerel. Memorial service will be held at Schwartz Brothers Chapel, Queens Boulevard and 76th Ro
 Vern Countryman, an expert on commercial law, particularly bankruptcy, died on May 2 at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Cambridge. Mr. Countryman, a retired professor at Harvard Law School, was born in Roundup, Mont., on May 13, 1917. He rece
 Kyriacos Demetriou, a master barber whose old-fashioned barber shop on the Upper West Side of Manhattan was such an authentic butterfly in amber that it went into the Museum of the City of New York when he retired in 1996, died on Friday. He was 80. His son-in-law, Paul Galietti, sa
 CAPECI-Theodore J., Dr.. In loving memory of my brother, Dr. Theodore J. Capeci. This genius was an inspiration to me all my life. He had the rare capacity of being a dreamer and a doer. A great Doctor and a man of the people. QUICK SILVER! Mrs. Jacqueline Capeci Wenz       
 CHITEMAN-Irving, MD. On May 16, 1999. Loving husband of the late Nellie. Beloved father of Barry and Robert. Dear brother of the late George, Sally and Leah. Beloved family physician of 68 years who was respected by both his patients and colleagues. Visitation Tuesday evening 7-9PM. Service
 DAVIS-Rev. William J.. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal Church, 62-81 60th Place, Ridgewood, on May 17. Reposing in the Lower Church at Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal, Tuesday, May 18, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 P.M., and o
 EICKELBERG-Prof. W. Warren B.., of Amityville, LI on May 15, 1999. Beloved husband of Marilyn Banks Eickelberg. Loving father of William Eickelberg, Peggy Larkin, Dr. Robert Eickelberg, Janet Beshlian, and step-father of David Banks, Jane Banks Stanfield, Stephen Banks and Lawrence Banks. A
 EWELL-James. Age 62. Passed away on May 17, 1999 after a long battle with lung cancer. He'll surely be missed by many people. A kind man with a heart of gold. Howard Koeppel, Mark Hsiao       
 LIPTON-Gerald. 75. Of Wilmette, Il. Beloved husband of 47 years of Geraldine (nee Sholder); cherished father of Allan and Richard (Amy); adored and adoring grandfather of Lianna and Justin; brother of Leonard (June). In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to WilPower Inc., 444 Fron
 McWHORTER-Charles K.. Age 77, May 10, 1999, from injuries sustained in an automobile accident in Hyannis, MA. Loving brother of Susanna Reckard and brother-inlaw to, Phyllis Mann, uncle to Scott, Frank, Matthew, Charles, Mark, Cheryl, Joseph and Michael. Graduated University of West Virgini
 MOESER-John R.. On May 14, 1999. Suddenly, of a heart attack. His colleagues at HCFP/Brenner Securities mourn his passing and extend their sympathies to his family.       
 NAREFF-Arthur A., M.D.. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family mourns the passing of our friend and former colleague, Arthur A. Nareff, M.D., a long-time member of Beth Israel's department of medicine. To Dr. Nareff's family and friends, and all who loved him, we offer our heartfelt c
 SCHAFER-George E.. Of Pond Eddy, New York. A retired investment banker for Brown Brothers, Harriman & Co. Died May 15, 1999 at his home in Pond Eddy. He was 73. The son of the late John H. and Florence E. Postel Schafer. Born February 26, 1926 in Brooklyn, N.Y. He is the widower of Florence
 SHANLEY - Brother Matthew (John), F.S.C.. Age 74, of Lincroft, New Jersey, died on Saturday, the feast day of St. John Baptist De La Salle, founder of the Brothers of the Christian Schools, at De La Salle Hall, Lincroft. His teaching assignments included St. Cecilia's, Sacred Heart, St. Jer
 WEISGLASS-Stephen. A dear friend and special person who was always there for us. We will miss you, your wisdom and your backhand volley. Our condolences to Wiki and the entire family. Love, Ellen and Jeff WEISGLASS-Steven. The Aspatuck Tennis Club expresses its profound condolences 
 Robert Goldman, the winner of four world bridge titles, died of a heart attack on Sunday. He was 60 and lived in Highland Village, Tex. He died on the way to a Lewisville, Tex., hospital, said his stepdaughter, Renee DeSaye of Atlanta. He had just returned from a tournament in Boiss
 Bill Ballantine, an artist and writer who peppered his work with images of circus life, died on Friday at the Pine Nursing Home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 88 and lived in Sarasota. Mr. Ballantine's fascination with the circus was instilled as a young boy, when he traipsed after his fa
 Michael F. Wettach, an equestrian, restaurant owner and trustee of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, died on Sunday in Baltimore. He was 66 and lived in Monkton, Md. The cause was a heart attack, said his half-brother, Peter Lawson-Johnston of Princeton, N.J. Mr. Wettach
 BERNFELD-Alan L. Of Hallandale, FL. Died May 18, 1999. A dear, sweet, gentle man. Loving husband of Lillian. Father of Bruce and Fran. Father-in-law of Eileen. Grandfather of Susannah. Brother-in-law, uncle, great uncle and friend. His 90 years were filled with abounding love and deep devot
 CASSEL-Charles Moore Jr. At the age of 82. The Henry L. Schwartz Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development of Mount Sinai Medical Center extends our deepest sympathy to Dr. Christine K. Cassel, our Chairman, and to her family, on the loss of her father. Mr. Cassel was the son of the la
 EWELL-James. Age 62. Passed away on May 17, 1999 after a long battle with lung cancer. He'll surely be missed by many people. A kind man with a heart of gold. A small memorial service will be held on Thursday, May 20, 10 AM, St. James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue at 71st St. Howard 
 GLEESON-Rev. Joseph M. On May 13, 1999. Ordained for the people of New York on May 29, 1965. Born on March 28, 1939, the son of Joseph M. and Marie White Gleeson. He was raised and educated in New York City, a graduate of Regis High School, Fordham University and Saint Joseph's Seminary. He
 HYMAN-Dr. Herbert Henry. The clergy, officers and trustees and members of Temple Sinai of Roslyn record with profound sorrow the death of senior past president, Dr. Herbert Henry Hyman. We grieve together with his beloved wife, Edith, his children, Edward and Deborah, Gerald and Sandra, Jea
 LOVETT-Martin. Of Concordia, Cranbury, NJ, age 78. Loving husband of Helen Stein Lovett. Devoted father of Phyllis and Larry Mazer of Raleigh, NC, and Ronald of Amesbury, MA. Adored Grandfather of Erick Eidus of Chicago, IL., and Zachary Mazer of Raleigh, NC. Survived also by many lifelong 
 RIGGIO-Jack W., DDS, of Southampton, NY, age 69, succumbed to lung cancer on May 17, 1999, after a lengthy illness. He was the son of the late Dr. Jack and Virginia Riggio of Port Jefferson, NY. He is survived by his wife Gilda (nee Aramburu), sons Bob, John and Bill, four grandchildren and
 ROPER-Leo, D.D.S. Of NYC, Pound Ridge, NY and Ajijic, Mexico. Died peacefully May 16 at age 92 in his Pound Ridge home. He is survived by his daughter, Elizabeth Marcus, his brothers, Herman Rose and Jesse Rappaport, and his two grandchildren. ROPER-Dr. Leo. The members of Rockrimmo
 Porter Warrington Heaps, an organist and composer whose work on the popular Hammond organ transformed a crude-sounding electronic keyboard instrument into one that could approximate the sounds and colors of larger pipe organs, died on May 3 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 92.       
 Robert L. Turner, who pushed Eastern Air Lines to create its shuttle between Boston and New York in 1961, died on Saturday in Columbus, N.C. He was 89. He had suffered a series of strokes in recent months, according to his son. Mr. Turner had a lifelong fascination with flyi
 Alvin John Rockwell, a prominent San Francisco lawyer who as a Government attorney helped to draft the legal system for a democratic postwar Germany, died yesterday in San Francisco, where he lived. He was 90. In 1945 he was posted to Berlin as legal adviser to Gen. Lucius D. Clay a
 Augustus Pablo, a widely influential reggae producer, died on Tuesday at University Hospital in Kingston, Jamaica. He was 46 and lived in the hills outside Kingston. The cause was myasthenia gravis, a nerve disorder, said his brother, Garth Swaby. Mr. Pablo, whose original n
 Henry Jones, a Tony Award-winning character actor who had a long career on Broadway, in films and on television, died on Monday at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 86 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Jones had a face as plain as his name. As his daughter, Jocelyn 
 Jerome Jay Wolken, a biophysicist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh who delved into the mysteries of sight and light and invented a lens system that gave sight to some legally blind people, died on May 10 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 82. Dr. Wolken's Light Concentrati
 HERENSTEIN-Harry T. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Ruth Spitz Herenstein. Loving brother of the late Louis Hernstein, Gladys Cohen, Lester and Moe Herenstein, Dorothy Sollar, Perry & Henry Herenstein. Caring brother-in-law of Pearl Herenstein. Dear uncle of Arlene Asher, Doris Fine
 ROTHENBERG - Robert. The Board of Directors extends their sincerest condolences to the family of Harvey Rothenberg, AICF's Treasurer, on the death of his beloved brother. Vera Stern, President America-Israel Cultural Foundation       
 RUBIN-Peter Jay. April 28, 1964May 18, 1999. Firstborn child and beloved son of Barbara and the late Walter. Devoted and dear brother of Randy. Loving grandson, nephew, cousin and friend. Peter had a deep love for Torah and Israel, closely followed by his love for the Knicks and English foo
 SWEENEY-Maj. Gen. Arthur H., Jr. USA retired. 78 of Richmond, VA. Died Monday, May 17, 1999. Surviving are his wife Veronica D. Sweeney, two sisters and their families. Services will be held in Richmond, VA. Interment Arlington National Cemetery.       
 Stephen S. Weisglass, the executive managing director of Conifer Securities, a San Francisco investment banking firm, died on Sunday at his home in Miami. He was 70. The cause of death was lung cancer, according to a statement from the Owen Cheatham Foundation, a nonprofit organizat
 Gerald J. Lieberman, a former Stanford University provost and an expert in statistics and operations research, died on Tuesday at his home on the Stanford campus in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 73. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, according to a stat
 James Broughton, a poet and filmmaker, died on Monday at his home in Port Townsend, Wash. He was 85. Long a prominent member of the avant-garde artistic community in San Francisco, Mr. Broughton once described himself as ''an Anglican by birth, a Taoist by nature, a Dionysian in spi
 Lembit Oll, an Estonian chess grandmaster who was preparing to take part in a qualifying competition for the International Chess Federation's world championship match this summer in Las Vegas, Nev., died on Sunday in a plunge from a window of his fourth-floor apartment in Tallinn, the Eston
 ABRAMOVITZ-Ann. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are saddened by the May 19th passing of Ann Abramovitz, the mother of Dr. Robert Abramovitz, our esteemed colleague and Chief Psychiatrist. We extend our deepest sympathies to Dr. Abramovitz; his wi
 FRANKLIN-William D., M.D. Died suddenly in his home in Aventura, FL on May 16, 1999 after a heart attack. Lifelong resident of Great Neck, NY. Member of Phi Beta Kappa and Alpha Omega Alpha. Graduate of Tulane University, B.S. 1943; M.D., 1945. Diplomate American Board of Internal Medicine,
 HERENSTEIN-Harry T. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Ruth Spitz Herenstein. Loving brother of the late Louis Hernstein, Gladys Cohen, Lester and Moe Herenstein, Dorothy Sollar, Perry & Henry Herenstein. Caring brother-in-law of Pearl Herenstein. Dear uncle of Arlene Asher, Doris Fine
 ROTHENBERG - Robert. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Died May 18 at the age of 75. Brother of Harvey E. Rothenberg. Brother-in-law of Judith and loving uncle of Alan and Suzanne Rothenberg, Anne and Glenn Roberts and great-uncle of Jessica, Jillian, Jake, Jonathan and Joel. He will be remembered and sadl
 RUBIN-Peter Jay. April 28, 1964May 18, 1999. Firstborn child and beloved son of Barbara and the late Walter. Devoted and dear brother of Randy. Loving grandson, nephew, cousin and friend. Peter had a deep love for Torah and Israel, closely followed by his love for the Knicks and English foo
 STEVENS-Sanford, M.D. The members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York and the faculty of the NYU Psychoanalytic Institute mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague, Sanford Stevens. A graduate of the Institute, and training analyst for many years at both NYU and Columbia,
 YOURMAN-Jack. Age 80. Died peacefully on May 17, 1999. He will be greatly missed. Husband of Gladys. Father of Carol, Judy, and David. Grandfather of Sarah and Rachel Kass. Stepfather of Bobette Lister and Leslie Wexler. Stepgrandfather of Jennifer Cooper, Julie Lister, Paul Lister, Eric We
 Sheldon Judson, an archeologist and a retired professor of geosciences at Princeton University, died yesterday in his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 80. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to a statement released by the university. Dr. Judson was born on Oct. 18, 1918
 Dan Sanders, a former executive vice president of the New York State United Teachers and a principal architect of the teacher labor movement in the state, died on Thursday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 69 and had lived in Putnam Valley, N.Y. He died of 
 ARONS-George. Died Thursday, May 20 in Stamford, CT. He was 67 years old. Funeral services will be held Sunday, May 23 at 12:30 P.M. at the Congregation Agudath Sholom, 301 Strawberry Hill Avenue, Stamford, CT. Burial will follow at the Agudath Sholom Cemetery in Stamford. He is survived by
 CUCCI-Vincent E., Esq. Formerly of Manhattan, on May 20th, 1999. He was 89 years old. Vincent was born July 26, 1909 in Manhattan. He earned a Bachelor and Law degree from St. John's University in 1933. He practiced law in the state of New York for over 60 years until his retirement in 1993
 HERENSTEIN-Harry T. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Ruth Spitz Herenstein. Loving brother of the late Louis Hernstein, Gladys Cohen, Lester and Moe Herenstein, Dorothy Sollar, Perry & Henry Herenstein. Caring brother-in-law of Pearl Herenstein. Dear uncle of Arlene Asher, Doris Fine
 JULIBER-I. Gerard. 85. Died peacefully after a hard-fought battle. Beloved and devoted husband of Roslyn. Loving and supportive father of Ilene and Stan (Barshay), Lois and Jon (Adams). Grandfather of Larry and Lisa, Scott and Melissa, and Missy, great-grandfather of Jennifer, Emily and Set
 McWhorter-Charles K. The Alvin Ailey Dance Theater Foundation mourns the passing of Charles K. McWhorter, who served with great distinction on its Board of Trustees from 1974 to 1995. During his tenure as a Trustee, his commitment and dedication to the Ailey organization were unwavering. Hi
 RUBIN-Peter Jay. April 28, 1964May 18, 1999. Firstborn child and beloved son of Barbara and the late Walter. Devoted and dear brother of Randy. Loving grandson, nephew, cousin and friend. Peter had a deep love for Torah and Israel, closely followed by his love for the Knicks and English foo
 SHAPIRO-Howard. On May 21, 1999. Beloved husband of Suzy. Loving father of Deborah and Kenneth and stepfather of William Peterfriend. Dear son of Milton Shapiro and the late Sophie. He will be profoundly missed by his family and friends, and deeply mourned by his staff at D.C. Planning. Ser
 William Alfred, the author of ''Hogan's Goat'' and other plays and a longtime professor at Harvard University, died on Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 76. Although Mr. Alfred had a distinguished career as an educator, it was as a playwright that he achieved his great
 Christos G. Bastis, a restaurateur and art collector whose Sea Fare restaurants brought a sophisticated Mediterranean understanding of seafood to New York, died Friday night at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach. At a time when the typical A
 Davis Allen, a prolific designer of modern business interiors and furniture who spent 40 years at the firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, died on May 13 at Broward General Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Fort Lauderdale. During his career, Mr. Allen had majo
 BAKER-Clifford M., Jr. 82, of Far Hills, NJ. Husband of Jane Myers. Son of the late Clifford M. Baker, Sr., and Margaret D. Baker of Plainfield, NJ, and predeceased by two brothers, John and Robert. He was a World War II Navy veteran, and a graduate of Princeton, Class of 1938. He is surviv
 BASTIS-Christos G.. On May 21, 1999, at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved and devoted husband of Josephine. Loving and supportive father of Betty, George, Christopher and Jason. Loving grandfather of seven and great-granfather of three. His strength, courage and determination was unyieldi
 CLARK-Stanley I.. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of Marcia and Harry Lippman, and Roberta and Herbert Selzer. Cherished grandfather of Caleb, Jennifer, Jordan, Lauren and Brian. He was a prominent attorney for over 50 years. Services Sunday, 10 AM, at ''Riverside-Nassau North Ch
 GAFFNEY-Miller Schlager, 88. Died in Binghamton, New York on May 18, 1999. His first wife, Adelaide Smith Gaffney died in 1974. He is survived by his widow, Mary Collins Gaffney and by three sons, David M., Philip W., and James T. and by his sister, Marie G. Barry. He graduated from Princet
 GORDON-Phyllis. The Spiegel family mourns the passing of their dear friend Phyllis. Condolences to Hank and his dear family. Herbert Spiegel       
 HENNESSY-Thomas P.. Of Lynbrook, suddenly on May 20, 1999. Beloved husband of Anne. Loving father of Susan Flood and Jennifer Hennessy. Cherished son of Elizabeth. Dear father-in-law of Joseph. Adoring grandfather of Katherine and Kevin. Also survived by his brother David. Family will recei
 JULIBER-I. Gerard. 85. Died peacefully after a hard-fought battle. Beloved and devoted husband of Roslyn. Loving and supportive father of Ilene and Stan (Barshay), Lois and Jon (Adams). Grandfather of Larry and Lisa, Scott and Melissa, and Missy, great-grandfather of Jennifer, Emily and Set
 LAWRENCE-Rev. Dennis. Of Old Greenwich, CT. Died May 13th. Ordained Deacon of the Anglican Church of the Advent in Greenwich. Fleet Chaplain Old Greenwich Yacht Club. Former member RAF Squadron 206. Survived by his wife Jane E. (Crusoe) Lawrence, daughters Hilary Lawrence, Avery L. Belicka,
 ROTHENBERG - Robert. The Board of Directors of the 360 East 72nd Street Owners Corporation extends deepest sympathy to their President, Harvey Rothenberg, and his family on the death of Harvey's beloved brother. Robert will be missed by Harvey, Judy and their children Anne and her husband G
 SHAPIRO-Howard. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers mourn the untimely death of Howard Shapiro, a valued friend and loyal supporter. We will be forever grateful to Howard for his dedication and commitment to East End Hospice and to the East End Hospice Open, a tenn
 CALLAHAN-Dr. Frederic L.. On November 10, 1998. Retired Associate Professor. A memorial tribute and reception will be held at Lehman College, Music Recital Hall, Room 306, on Thursday, May 27, 1999, at 4 PM. Former colleagues, students and friends are welcome by his wife Louise, and childre
 BAKER-Clifford M., Jr. 82, of Far Hills, NJ. Husband of Jane Myers. Son of the late Clifford M. Baker, Sr., and Margaret D. Baker of Plainfield, NJ, and predeceased by two brothers, John and Robert. He was a World War II Navy veteran, and a graduate of Princeton, Class of 1938. He is surviv
 BASTIS-Christos G. On May 21, 1999, at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved and devoted husband of Josephine. Loving and supportive father of Betty, George, Christopher and Jason. Loving grandfather of seven and great-granfather of three. His strength, courage and determination was unyieldin
 CARACCIOLO-Carmine ''Skippy''. The Playbill Magazine Sales and Editorial colleagues of our dear ''Skippy'' mourn his tragic passing and salute his joyful life which enriched us all. He lived his long life on Grand Street and his loving nature endeared him to the entire community. Heaven is 
 DAYAN-Rabbi Doctor Soleyman. The Young Israel of Holliswood/ Holliswood Jewish Center is deeply saddened by the passing of its esteemed member, Rabbi Dayan. He was a brilliant Jewish scholar and clinical psychologist who led the Persian and Holliswood/Jamaica Estates Jewish communities to e
 GRUBMAN-Harry. Loving father of Roberta Fink, Francine Grubman, Sharon and Stuart Reben. Dear brother of Irene Grubman. Devoted grandfather of Tara, Todd, Mark, Dayan. His long life was a celebration for all who knew him. Services were held May 23.       
 HENNESSY-Thomas P. Of Lynbrook, suddenly on May 20, 1999. Beloved husband of Anne. Loving father of Susan Flood and Jennifer Hennessy. Cherished son of Elizabeth. Dear father-in-law of Joseph. Adoring grandfather of Katherine and Kevin. Also survived by his brother David. Family will receiv
 JULIBER-I. Gerard. The clergy, officers and members of Temple Sinai of Roslyn record with profound sorrow the passing of I. Gerard Juliber. We grieve together with his beloved wife Roslyn and his children Ilene, Stanley, Lois and Jon, his grandchildren Scott, Melissa, Larry, Lisa and Missy,
 KELLY-Thomas Connolly. Of Summit, NJ. On May 22, 1999. Graduate of All Hallows High School and Fordham University. Survived by his wife, Marguerite and his children, Thomas, Jack, Tracy, and Christy; and two grandchildren, Shaun and Clare. He is also survived by his sister, Catharine Kelly.
 MASSARSKY-Reuben W. Revered husband, father, grandfather, sibling, and friend, age 89, died on May 21, at 10:50 PM, at Saint Mary's Hospital in the city of his birth, Hoboken, NJ. Mr. Massarsky was both an active attorney-ar-law and counselor-at-law, having served at the bar for more than f
 SHAPIRO-Howard. What does one say of a friend that could possibly express the multiplicity of that relationship? How, in a remarkably short time, we became bound by the gentle reins of friendship? Howard, we shall miss your winning ways on the tennis court, your enthusiasm for the motorcycl
 SHEPARD-Harold Jon. 48. Beloved son of June C. Shepard. Brother of Allyn C. Shepard. Nephew, cousin, godfather to Lily. Dear friend and colleague. Uncle to Tramp and Bonnie; and longtime companion of James L. Homan. Died on Sunday, May 23, 1999, at his Manhattan apartment of a glioblastoma 
 WHITE-Lt. Colonel Kenneth Alan K. St. J., C.D., Commanding Officer (ret'd), Toronto Scottish Regiment, Chairman (ret'd) Royal Trustco Limited. At Oakville, Ontario. On Saturday, May 22, 1999, in his 86th year. Beloved husband of 53 years of Joan. Loving father of Dr. R. Alan White, Peterbor
 Robert Carr Doyle, a media executive whose work in television's early years ranged from charming President Truman to pondering what President Eisenhower had really meant to say in his responses at press conferences, died on Friday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 78 and lived in Chevy 
 Sir Robert Rhodes James, a British historian and biographer who had been a Conservative member of Parliament and an investigator of Kurt Waldheim's war record, died on May 20. He was 66 and lived near Sandy, in Bedfordshire, England. Sir Robert had been sick for some time, a Conserv
 James Blades, a popular British percussionist whose most frequently heard work was the ''V-for-victory'' Morse code signal broadcast by the BBC during World War II, died on Wednesday at his home in Cheam, in Surrey, England. He was 97. He also created the sound of the gong at the be
 Kenneth Donald Glancy, a former president of RCA Records who helped foster the careers of such disparate artists as Woody Herman, Pierre Boulez, David Bowie and Cleo Laine, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and had homes in Manhattan and Cagnes-sur-Mer, in southe
 Norman Rossington, a veteran British character actor whose career embraced films, theater and television, died on Friday in a hospital in Manchester, England. He was 70. The cause was cancer, according to his agent, Marilyn Collis. Mr. Rossington was born in Liverpool, began
 BASTIS-Christos. The Board Of Trustees and the Staff of the Brooklyn Museum Of Art record with deep sorrow the passing of long-time friend and generous supporter of the BMA, Christos Bastis, a member of the Museum's Advisory Council of the Board Of Trustees. He was a member of the BMA's Egy
 BENJAMIN-William. On May 23, 1999. In Pembroke Pines, Fla. at 92 years. Beloved husband of his adored late wife Ida. Dear father of Marlene Scherr and Myrna (Micki) Kleeman and father-in-law of James Kleeman. Cherished by his grandchildren Mitch, Randy and Linda, and their spouses Laura, De
 HABER-Irving. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Alan Haber on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 MEYER-Yisrael (Julius). The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of the brother of Mr. Manfred H. Meyer, who, with his wife Eva, is a Guardian of Yeshiva University and established the Eva and Manfred H. Meyer Course in Modern Jewish Problems at Stern College for Women. Yisrael Meye
 NATHAN-Henry R. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi       
 REINGOLD-David J. Of Delray Beach, FL. On May 22. Beloved son of Estelle and the late Jacob. Loving brother of Joel, Daniel and Michael and adored uncle of Joshua, Adam, Corey, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca, Amy and Noah Reingold. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear son, brother and uncle whose w
 SIKET-James Jr. Of Hampton Bays, Retired Executive Director of the NYC Board of Elections. Died on May 23, 1999 at the age of 84; for 62 years beloved husband of Louise (Antal); Loving father of the late James Michael Siket and survived by his daughter-in-law Debra Siket; Dear brother of El
 SNOW-Russel W. Jr. Of Liberty Corner, NJ on May 22, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth Peiffer Snow. Father of Carl and David. Brother of Mrs. Jacquelyn Hinds. Also survived by 3 grandchildren. Funeral Services will be held at the Wm. A. Bradley & Son Funeral Home, 345 Main St. (Rt. 124) Chatham
 DUNNINGTON-Walter G. Jr. A gathering of friends celebrating rememberances of his life. The Chapel at Saint Bartholomew's, Park Avenue at 50th Street, 4:30 P.M., Wednesday, June 2nd, 1999.       
 Anthony P. Rios, a veteran political organizer among Hispanic Californians, died on May 19 at Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Baldwin Park, a suburb of Los Angeles. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Rios joined Saul Alinsky, the Chicago sociologist and organizer, in founding the
 Lyndon Waldo Lyon, a horticulturist who was turned into an African violet fanatic by a single leaf and who played a major role in making the African violet one of the country's favorite houseplants, died last Wednesday at Little Falls Hospital in Little Falls, N.Y. He was 94. Mr. Ly
 BASTIS-Christos G. The Board of Directors of Atlantic Bank of New York, the Chairman, Theodoros B. Karatzas, the President and CEO, Peter L. Venetis, along with all the officers and staff, express their deepest sympathies to the family of our beloved and faithful Director Emeritus Christos 
 BLANKENSTEIN-Herman Bibi. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. Died at age 91. He was a true lover of sports who excelled in tennis and later in golf. We shall miss his sense of humor.       
 HART-Owen. Our sincerest condolences to his family on his untimely passing. Al Dayton and Family       
 MEYER-Peter. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and former Trustee and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Tom Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Mark A. Hershey, President       
 NATHAN-Henry R. On May 23, 1999. Loving husband of Ursula (nee Eisner). Devoted father of Lester. Dear brother-in-law of Mechtild Eisner. A native of Berlin, Germany he began his training in banking before he was forced to immigrate to N.Y. in 1938. His career on Wall St. continued to 1984.
 STRELITZ-Leonard R. The officers and executive staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourns the passing of Leonard R. Strelitz, United Jewish Appeal National Chairman for 1977 to to 1978 and Honorary National Chairman 1979 to 1999. A larger than life personality, Leonard Strelitz's pass
 WEPRIN-Joel. We are saddened by the loss of a very special man, Joel Weprin, on May 22, 1999. He brought love and sunshine into all our lives, and will always be remembered by his family, friends & the students that he influenced. He is survived by his wife, Amy (Kassin) & his children, Jul
 BASTIS-Christos G. Shakespeare could have been thinking of Chris: ''When he shall die, Take him and cut him out in little stars, And he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night, and pay no worship to the garish sun.'' Bill and Deborah Zabel       
 John Burton Tigrett, a Tennessee entrepreneur who made a fortune on things like the Glub-Glub drinking duck novelty, befriended financiers like Sir James Goldsmith and musicians like Isaac Hayes and advised politicians like Vice President Al Gore, died on May 18 in a hotel room in Washingto
 BASTIS-Christos. The Directors of the American Friends of the Cycladic Art Foundation mourn the passing of their beloved Honorary Trustee, Christos G. Bastis. He was a devoted friend, wonderful collector and extraordinary gentleman. He will be greatly missed. Shelby White, President Mrs. Ni
 FRANC-Robert. Former longtime French announcer for USIA, passed away on May 24, 1999 in New York City at age 94. He will be buried in France.       
 GREENE-Philip M. Age 79, of East Hampton, died on May 22nd, in Southampton Hospital of Emphysema. Survived by his wife Constance, five children, Sheppard, Basking Ridge, NJ, Philippa Mulford, Duxbury, MA, Stephanie Radwan, Chapel Hill, NC, Matthew, Esopus, NY, Lucia Connolly, Woodbridge, CT
 GRUBMAN-Harry. Loving father of Roberta Fink, Francine Grubman, Sharon and Stuart Ruben. Dear brother of Irene Grubman. Devoted grandfather of Tara, Todd, Mark, Dayan. His long life was a celebration for all who knew him. Services were held May 23.       
 HAYWARD-Retired Vice Admiral John T. ''Chick'', who helped develop the atomic bomb dropped over Nagasaki, Japan, died Sunday at his home in Atlantic Beach, Florida. He was 90 years old. He also developed systems for ground- and air-launched rockets and became a pioneer in the development of
 HEISTEIN-Roy. The Board of Directors of Lawrence Houses Owners Corp. is shocked and saddened by the untimely death of our longtime Board member. Deepest sympathies to Cindy. Roy was a remarkable man. We will miss him tremendously. Jesse Yaverbaum and Herbert Donner, Co-Presidents       
 KLEIN-Elaine and Robert L. The firm of Becker Ross Stone DeStefano & Klein mourns the sudden passing of our devoted partner, Robert, and his beloved wife, Elaine. We have treasured Bob's brilliance, friendship and leadership over the years and will always remember them. KLEIN-Robert
 LASSAR-Emanuel. Congregation Shaaray Tefila in Lawrence mourns the passing of Emanuel Lassar, longtime devoted member and esteemed Past President. Loving husband of Adele, father of Naomi and Steve Lassar, Hanina and Louis Rottenberg. Grandfather of Bess, Moshe, Jacob, and Erik. Services Th
 MARX-William (born Wolf) Louis, 92, died Wednesday May 26, after a valiant fight. Beloved husband of Murielle. Adored father of Jane and of the late Paul. Devoted brother of Nettie Rosenblum, Anna Goldberg, Adelaide Rubin and the late Benjamin. Cherished brother-in-law of Elaine and the lat
 PIECH-Peter M. 80, of Boca Raton, FL, died Tuesday, May 25, 1999 at the Boca Raton Community Hospital. Mr. Piech was a member of The Producers Guild of America in California, N.A.T.A.S., and was the Executive Producer of the Rocky & Bullwinkle Show, Underdog, and Judge Roy Bean. He is survi
 STEWART-George Taylor III, 74, of Lynchburg, VA, died Tuesday, May 25, 1999, at Virginia Baptist Hospital after a lengthy illness. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Bonnie Myers Stewart. He is also survived by his daughter Diane Stewart Carrington & her husband, Fredrick W. ''Rick'' C
 STIEFEL-Edward Henry. On May 23, 1999. A retired partner of the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP. Two daughters survive, Barbara Anne Rebell of Seneca, S.C. and Margaret Jeanne Bergman of Ridge, N.Y., as well as five grandchildren and six great grandchildren. He was predeceas
 STIVANELLO-Anthony L. The New York Grand Opera Company notes with sorrow the passing of our esteemed associate, Anthony Stivanello. Anthony has been invaluable to the Company since its inception as stage director and costume designer. His special talents and rare fund of knowledge can never
 DUNNINGTON-Walter G. Jr. A gathering of friends celebrating remembrances of his life. The Chapel at Saint Bartholomew's, Park Avenue at 50th Street, 4:30 P.M., Wednesday, June 2nd, 1999.       
 JACOBSON-Stuart Edward. A perfectionist who taught us to settle for ''ONLY THE BEST.'' A humanist who instilled in us ''THE ART OF GIVING.'' We miss him and cherish his memory. Mother, Dad and Kyle       
 Paul Sacher, a conductor, champion of contemporary music and arts patron, whose family fortune, based on a controlling share of the Roche pharmaceutical empire, amounted to an estimated $13 billion, died yesterday after a long illness. He was 93. Mr. Sacher was staking out a signifi
 Ramon Rubial, a veteran of the Spanish Civil War who spent nearly 20 years in prison under the Franco regime, died Monday at his home in Bilbao. He was 92. Mr. Rubial, widely respected as the living memory of Spanish Socialism, still held the honorary title of president of the Spani
 Vice Adm. John T. Hayward, a weapons expert who helped develop the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, in the closing days of World War II, died on Sunday at his home in Atlantic Beach, Fla. He was 90. Admiral Hayward, who was promoted to vice admiral in 1959 and retired in 1968
 Chester L. Migden, a labor lawyer whose work for the Screen Actors Guild helped to establish the principle of paying actors for repeat showings of the television programs, feature films and commercials they appear in -- a practice that produces nearly $1 billion today -- died on Sunday at h
 BLAUNSTEIN-Jerome L., M.D. Passed away on May 24, 1999. He will be missed by many friends and relatives and especially by his companion of many years, Bruce C. Olsen.       
 COHEN-Richard M. Died May 27 at 1:30 A.M., at the age of 62. Loving husband of Barbara, devoted father of Jimmy, Andy, Holly and the late Tina. He is survived by his mother Frances, his sister Marilyn and husband Richard, his brother Arthur and wife Karen, and his aunt Rose. This gentle and
 KLEIN-Robert L. NYU School of Law & The Law Alumni Association mourn the passing of one of our greatest citizens. Always there to guide and to help, Bob was a model lawyer and a wonderful friend. We note his passing with great sorrow. Carol Arber, Law Alumni Association President John Sexto
 KOBLER-Richard. Inventor and Electronic Engineer. Died in JFK Medical Center in Ft. Worth, FL on May 8, 1999 at the age of 90. Mr. Kobler had over 100 patents to his name, was a pioneer in the field of sound recording and developed the first automated teaching machine called the ''Talking T
 MANDEL-Eleanor. Our condolences to our dear Benjy, son-inlaw, husband, father, grandfather and brother-in-law, upon the loss of his beloved mother whom we shall always remember as a true Aishes Chayil. May Hashem comfort and strengthen him with the memories of a remarkable woman and Tzadeke
 WHITE-James Joseph. Of Pleasantville, N.Y. and Spanish Point, Ireland. Died on Wednesday at University Hospital in Galway. He is survived by his wife, Josephine and his four children, James, Jr., Karen, John, and Maryann; his sisters, Ann Brown and Mary O'Connor; and his stepchildren, Willi
 Waldo Semon, a chemist and inventor who brought about the age of vinyl, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Hudson, Ohio. He was 100. Though the material he developed has spread and oozed into ubiquitous use, with 44 billion pounds a year being produced to provide clothing, shelter,
 Donald Sur, a composer and musicologist, died on Monday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Sur's best-known work was ''The Slavery Documents,'' an oratorio commissioned by the Canata Singers of Cambridge, 
 Ed Peterson, an automotive service and parts supplier who invented an alarm system that beeps a warning when trucks and other heavy machinery are backing up, died on Wednesday at his home in Boise, Idaho. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, his son, Mark, said. Mr. Pet
 Frank A. Gunther, a radio pioneer  who helped create shortwave, two-way and FM systems, died on Monday at Bon Securos Hospital in Venice, Fla. He was 91 and lived in New York and Nokomis, Fla. Mr. Gunther often worked with the military, as well as with police and fire departments, d
 George Nikolas Perazich, a retired engineer and industrial economist who directed United Nations' relief efforts in Yugoslavia after World War II, died on Wednesday at the Hospice of Washington. He was 94 and lived in Washington. In a career spanning nearly 50 years in this country 
 BLAUNSTEIN-Jerome L., M.D. Passed away on May 24, 1999. He will be missed by many friends and relatives and especially by his companion of many years, Bruce C. Olsen.       
 COHEN-Richard M. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our long-standing dear friend and good partner, Richard. We will miss his insightful, analytical mind, his strength and his zest for living. Our sincere and deepest condolences to his wife Barbara, his children Andy, James and Holly,
 GARCIA-Alan A. Renowned singer and teacher, died on May 25. He is survived by a brother, two nieces and two cousins. Funeral will be Tuesday, June 1, 7:30 PM at Plymouth Church of The Pilgrims, 75 Hicks Street, Brooklyn Heights. Viewing will be at Frank R. Bell Funeral Home, 536 Sterling Pl
 GLICKSMAN-Abraham M. On May 26, 1999. Beloved husband of Frances, loving father of Robert & Emilie, dear brother of Rosella Breinan, adored grandfather of Lisa & Michelle. He will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 9:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GREENE-Jerome L. On May 27, 1999, at age 93. Beloved husband of Dawn Greene. Loving father of Patricia Humphrey and the late Cynthia Sue Greene & stepfather of Christina McInerney. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Joel Humphrey. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at
 HOLLOWAY - Joseph Bruning. Age 47. Of New York. Formerly of Wheeling, W.V. Died on Friday, May 27, 1999. Son of the late Walker Peterson Holloway. Surviving are his mother Barbara Bruning Holloway Locke of Wheeling, two brothers, Peter, Jr. and Dr. John Holloway, both of Wheeling. Also surv
 LAX-Michael. Age 69, of NYC and Bridgehampton, NY, on May 25th, 1999. Beloved father of Jennifer and Rebecca. Cherished partner of Kirsten Childs. An exceptionally gifted and caring man. He will be greatly missed.       
 RECANATI-Raphael. It is with a profound sense of loss that the Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging the passing of our dear friend and devoted colle
 WHITE-James J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of James J. White, A Life Member of the Society and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historia       
 Robert Fred Mozley, professor emeritus of physics at Stanford University and an expert on nuclear arms control, died on Monday at Stanford Hospital. He was 82 and lived in Menlo Park, Calif., and Southport Island, Me. The cause was complications from surgery, the university said.   
 John Edwin Adams, a California neurosurgeon and pioneer in the use of radioisotopes to study brain functions and disorders, died on May 18 at the medical center of the University of California at San Francisco. He was 85. Dr. Adams was the former Guggenheim Professor of Neurological
 Jerome L. Greene, a lawyer, real estate investor and benefactor of Columbia Law School, Montefiore Medical Center and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Thursday at his residence in the Carlyle Hotel in Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Greene, who was a founding member of 
 BLANKSTEIN-Mortimer. Age 86, on May 29, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Rita. Survived by his children Steven & Ellen Blankstein, and Andrea & Gary Cooperberg; seven grandchildren; a sister Jeanette Aranoff; and his companion Wini Costigan. Graveside burial Sunday 10AM at Mt. Hebron Cemet
 BLAUNSTEIN-Jerome L., M.D. Passed away on May 24, 1999. He will be missed by many friends and relatives and especially by his companion of many years, Bruce C. Olsen.       
 BOORSCH-John Peter. Age 54, of Princeton, NJ, on May 28, 1999. He leaves his wife Dorothea Dietrich, his father Jean Boorsch of North Haven, CT, his brother James of New Milford, CT, and his sisters Suzanne of New York City and Mary Louise Vogler of Redding, CT. He was a painter, graphic de
 BRAHA-Jack. Died May 28, 1999 Loving husband of Ilene (Nemerow). Devoted father of Marc, Elliot, Joseph, Robert and their wives. Caring stepfather of David, Kevin, Jonathan and their wives. Grandfather of 17 beautiful grandchildren. A respected gentleman and a good friend. Shiva at his home
 GLICKSMAN-Abraham M. On May 26, 1999. Beloved husband of Frances, loving father of Robert & Emilie, dear brother of Rosella Breinan, adored grandfather of Lisa & Michelle. He will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 9:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GOELZ-Shirley J. On May 25, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Charles V. Goelz. Devoted mother of Adam and Joshua Galef and Peter and Thomas Goelz. Loving sister of Eleanor Stillman. Also survived by five grandchildren and two nieces. Funeral private. Contributions in her memory to the Project
 HIRSCH-Andrew. A very longtime true friend. Our sincere condolences to Rita, Joan and Ronald and families. We will surely miss him. Sylvia and Jerry Sternberg       
 LAX-Michael. Age 69, of NYC and Bridgehampton, NY, on May 25th, 1999. Beloved father of Jennifer and Rebecca. Cherished partner of Kirsten Childs. An exceptionally gifted and caring man. He will be greatly missed.       
 RECANATI-Raphael. It is with a profound sense of loss that the Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging the passing of our dear friend and devoted colle
 SALANT-Jack. Died at age 91, on April 17, 1999. He was a devoted father and husband. He worked for over 40 years for the New York State Department of Insurance, and was President of the Association of New York State Insurance Department Examiners in 1953 and 1954. He served in the Air Force
 SAPERSTEIN-Irving. Of Millerton, NY, died on Friday, May 28, 1999, at the age of 79. Loving husband of the late Shirley Gitlin Saperstein, he is survived by his children, Lewis of Pleasant Valley, NY, Judith Keller of Brooklyn, NY, and Susan Rabin of Syracuse, NY; five grandchildren; his br
 SCHWADRON - Lawrence. The Board of Directors, staff and members of Volunteer Services for Children deeply mourn the loss of Larry. To his family and friends, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Grace McLean, Secretary       
 WALSH-Peter. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of the former Assistant to the President, Peter Walsh. An invaluable asset to the hospital center for over a quarter century, his cheerful spirit and dedication to our patients will never be forgotten.
 WEINER-Ernest M., Dr. Beloved husband of Ethel, wonderful father to Robert and Diane, adoring grandfather to Daniel, David, Brian, Lauren and Steven, and dear brother of Bernard. Passed away on May 28, 1999, in West Palm Beach, FL. Ernie was an intelligent, warm, compassionate and tender pe
 Richard Kobler, an Austrian-born electronics engineer who devised the first ''talking typewriter'' and scores of other contrivances after being resettled in New York 60 years ago by the actress Gloria Swanson, died on May 8 at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 90 and live
 D. Robert Yarnall Jr., who helped build a local Pennsylvania manufacturing company into a multinational corporation, died on Thursday at the Unitarian Universalist House nursing home in the Germantown section of Philadelphia. He was 74 and had lived most of his life in the city. The
 Joao Carlos de Oliveira, a Brazilian sports hero who held the world triple jump record for a decade, died Saturday at Beneficencia Portuguesa Hospital in Sao Paulo, Brazil. He was 45. De Oliveira, who lived in Pindamonhangaba, in Sao Paulo state, was suffering from pneumonia, hepati
 CASTLEMAN-Leonard, M.D. Dedicated physician for almost fifty years. At home on May 29th. His body was donated at his request to the Anatomical Gift Program at Downstate Medical Center. His survivors include his wife, Anita; his grandchildren, Ben and Rachel; his daughters, Janet and Nancy, 
 COHEN-Richard M. My family and I extend our sincere condolences to his wife Barbara, his mother Frances, and Arthur and Marilyn and family. Richie was my childhood friend, college friend and longtime partner. We had good times together and I have fond memories. Michael Lipstein       
 EIGEN-Joan, Martin, and Mollie. The Eigen family deeply mourns the deaths of Joan Eigen, daughter of Arthur and Paula Hirsch; sister of Linda and Harold. Martin Eigen, son of Mollie and Benjamin Eigen, brother of Albert, beloved parents of Barry, Amy and Jonathan, grandparents of Melyssa an
 GREENE-Jerome. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Jerome L. Greene. A Trustee of the School since 1985, he brought extraordinary leadership to the institution through his exceptional intellect, unique vision, and caring sensitivity to the needs of all members of the Juilliard C
 KAYE-Leonard F. On May 29, 1999. He will be missed by many, but especially by his wife Joan, his son Sam, his daughter Liza, and granddaughter Pammy.       
 RECANATI-Raphael. It is with a profound sense of loss that the Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging the passing of our dear friend and devoted colle
 Comdr. Rupert P. Lonsdale, who became the only British captain to surrender a warship on the high seas during World War II when he gave up his crippled submarine to save the lives of its 59 crewmen, died on  April 25 in Bournemouth, England. He was 93. In the early morning of May 4,
 Standish Forde Medina Jr., a leading trial lawyer who made a name for himself by resolving disputes so that clients could avoid trial, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Medina, who had residences in Manhattan, Westhampton, N.Y., and Washington, Conn., w
