 Ned Berry Stiles, a former managing partner of the international Wall Street law firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, died Wednesday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 70 and lived in Greenwich and Quogue, N.Y. He had a brief illness after a stroke, the firm said. Mr. Stiles 
 BIRNBAUM - Arthur. His nieces, nephews and their families mourn the loss of their beloved uncle of cherished memory. Claire and Harold Federman Grace and Ed Beiser Michael and Kate Birnbaum Ronnie and Temi Birnbaum David and Loretta Fischer Karen and Richard Stechel Gail and Mo Kraushar    
 BROWNING - John. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its beloved friend, the eminent American pianist John Browning, on January 26, 2003 at the age of 69. A Steinway Artist for more than 46 years, Mr. Browning was an articulate master of the piano
 CURRAN-Dr. John P., (M.D.) Devoted husband of Juanita. Beloved father of Maureen Kleinman, Kathryn, Michael, John Patrick and Michele Cali. Loving grandfather of eight grandchildren. Reposing at Pitta Funeral Home, 300 McDonald Avenue, Brooklyn until Monday, 10AM. Mass of Christian Burial a
 GRAD-Morton. Passed away Wednesday. He was 98. Born in Debrecen, Hungary, May 24, 1904, he was editor of the Hungarian weekly newspaper Magyar Szo for 51 years and wrote several books over that span including ''How the Hungarians Saved Western Civilization,'' released in 1996, under the pen
 JOHNSON-Robert P. Died January 26th, 2003; retired United States Army Colonel, member of the West Point Class of 1955, President of the Lee-Grant Chapter of the West Point Alumni Association, survived by his wife, Mary Alice, his daughter, Dr. Valerie Tyson and son Major Stephen Johnson, hi
 SULLIVAN-John G. The officers, employees and agents of Brown Harris Stevens are deeply saddened by the death of our colleague John G. Sullivan, a talented agent, musician, sculptor and collector. Our sincere condolences to his two brothers, Dale Sullivan, Robert Sullivan and their families.
 Dr. Allan Fromme, a psychologist and writer known for his warmhearted, common-sense approach to life's day-to-day concerns in his many television and radio appearances, died on Thursday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87. Dr. Fromme (pronounced FROE-mee), a native New Yorker, spent 50 year
 Burton Feldman, a historian who chronicled and appraised the Nobel Prizes, died on Jan. 10 in Denver. He was 76 and lived in Denver. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Peggy. A recently retired professor of English at the University of Denver, he won critical praise for hi
 Michael de Lisio, a sculptor and poet, died on Jan. 21 in Manhattan, one day short of his 92nd birthday. Mr. de Lisio was born in Manhattan. His parents were Italian immigrants, and he was largely self-taught. He had minor success as a poet, publishing sporadically in little magazin
 AGNELLI - Giovanni. Con summate businessman and industrialist, Philanthropist, world leader, automobile magnate and enthusiast, art collector, bon vivant, connoisseur of all the arts from publishing to fashion, sportsman, patriot and soldier-Giovanni Agnelli lived life fully in all its dime
 ALEXANDER - George B. Found dead in his New York City home on January 24. An Air Force Veteran and retired professor, he earned his B.A., M.A. and Ph.D. from NYU, and M.A. from Stanford. A deep love of music and literature helped sustain him in a 17 year battle with multiple myeloma. His gr
 BACHNER-Arnold H. Of New York, NY, died January 27, 2003 after long and painful illnesses. Born June 14, 1919 in Newark, NJ, Mr. Bachner had a distinguished career as the CEO of Kmart Apparel and was on the Board of Directors of the Kmart Corporation until his retirement. He was honored as 
 BAKER-Evan H. Of Steamboat Springs, CO., formerly of Westport, CT, and Rumson, NJ, died December 6, 2002. He was 76 years old. A memorial Mass will be at St. Luke's Church, Westport, CT, February 8 at 2 PM.       
 BIRNBAUM-Arthur. 90, of New York and Southampton. Beloved husband of Betty, father of Susan and Robin, grandfather of Jennifer and Richie, and a much loved uncle to his nieces and nephews. He was an inspiration to all who knew him. He was a prince, he was a king, he was everything. 
 CLARKE-Joseph P. 86, died at home on January 31, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Eileen Williams Clarke, devoted father of Eileen Guiney, Mary Anne Korsiak, Joseph M., Peter and Kevin. He is survived by three brothers, Rev. Thomas Clarke, S.J., Charles Clarke and Raymond Clarke. A veteran
 COBURN-Louis. 87, of Coconut Creek, FL, formerly of Queens, NY. Beloved husband of Selma, and father of Barry, of Rockville, MD, and Dr. Michael, of Houston, TX. His treasured grandchildren are Jacob, Raphael, Jeffrey and Laura, and his devoted daughters-in-law are Debbie and Dr. Amy. Survi
 FREEDMAN-David L., 75, born in Wilmington, DE, died at home in Carmel, CA on January 23, 2003. A leading designer and manufacturer of ladies coats and suits in Manhattan for over 40 years. Remembered and beloved by his wife Judith and daughter Jacqueline (Joe Bershad).       
 FRIED-Andrew. Beloved son of the late Hyman and Frances Fried entered into rest January 31. He is survived by his sisters Dorothy and Elinor, brother-in-law Bernard, numerous nieces and nephews, great-nieces and greatnephews. A graveside service will be held on Sunday, February 2, at 11 AM,
 FROMME-Allan, Ph.D. Of Sarasota, FL, died on January 30th. Survived by Babette Brandt Fromme, his loving wife for over 59 years, father of Pamela Fromme Formato of Sarasota, FL, Steven Fromme and his wife, Lynn, of Chapel Hill, NC; very special grandfather to Brian Formato and his wife, Bri
 GOTTFRIED - Dr. Burton. Dentist, 82. Loved his family, his work and his patients. Survived by Mildred, his wife of 58 years, children Harriet and Ken Wald and Barbara and Dick Leukart, grandchildren Hank, Brian, Abigail and Joshua, sister Florence Green and brother Harold Gottfried.       
 HAVES-Morton M. January 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Elayne for over 56 years. Cherished father of Mary and Edward Cooper of Hewlett; Marc and Rita Haves of Manhattan; Laurie and Richard Samuelson of Montreal. Adored grandfather of David, Tanya, Billy, Joanna, and Scott Cooper; Arielle and 
 JOHNSON-Robert P. Died January 26th, 2003; retired United States Army Colonel, member of the West Point Class of 1955, President of the Lee-Grant Chapter of the West Point Alumni Association, survived by his wife, Mary Alice, his daughter, Dr. Valerie Tyson and son Major Stephen Johnson, hi
 KEELER - Robert Temple, noted Ohio lawyer, philanthropist, corporate director and World War II Navy veteran, died on December 19, 2002 of complications from a stroke suffered at his country home in Dorset, Vermont. He was 88. Keeler was born in Cleveland on August 3, 1914, the day Germany d
 KREIDMAN-Julius. Age 86. Beloved husband of Eleanor, whose loyalty and caring during his lifetime and in his time of need was instinctive, died Sunday, January 26, 2003 at the Hudson View Nursing Home. He leaves his loving daughter, Tina Kelly and her husband, Peter and was predeceased by h
 LEAHEY-Michael I., 46. Of Irvington, NY, formerly of Nyack, NY, suddenly on January 30, 2003. Founder and Director of Clinical Trials at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, past Director of the Office of Cardiac Research at Columbia Presbyterian. Beloved husband of Lynn (nee Davey), loving fath
 MARTIN-Stan. The Board of Directors and staff of The ALS Association Greater New York Chapter are deeply saddened by the passing of our our Board member, Stan Martin. With the passing of his father to ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease) many years ago, Stan was committed to advancing ALS research an
 NAESS-Michael R. 63, died at his home in Bermuda, on February 1, after a long, courageous battle with cancer. He was the beloved husband of Eleanor Bonbright Naess and the devoted father of Stephanie Kennedy, Michele Burke, Michael T. Naess, and the late Jeremy M. Naess, and stepfather of H
 NORRIS-William King. 73, died suddenly January 31, 2003, in Palm Beach, FL. Bill Norris worked on Wall Street at Loeb Rhodes and Marsh McLennan, retiring in 1985. He is survived by his loving wife of 51 years, Patricia, daughters, Sandy and Polly (husband, David Ober) and three grandchildre
 PEI-T'ing Chung. Died on January 31, 2003, at age 58, after a long illness. A lifelong resident of New York City, he attended the Collegiate School and graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard University. He earned a masters of City Planning from the Massachusetts Institute of Tec
 SALANT-Morris. On Sunday, January 26, 2003. Dear brother of Benjamin, Samuel, Eileen, the late George and the late Harry. Beloved husband of the late Rida, brother-inlaw of Claire, Marilyn and the late Florence. Devoted father of Norman and Louise. A true Sabra born in Jerusalem Palestine. 
 SCHIANO-Al. The Pawnbrokers Association of NY records with sorrow the passing of its esteemed member. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Gerald Modell, President Robert E. Gross, Secretary       
 BELFER-Ira. 1911-2001 With wisdom and humor, He offered us the richness Of his life. Belfer family       
 Mongo Santamaria, a Cuban conga player and percussionist who arrived in New York at the beginning of the jazz-Latin fusion and was arguably the most popular Latin musician of the 1960's, died on Saturday. He was 85. He had been placed on life support at a Miami hospital after a stro
 GEDDES-John A. Died on January 31, 2003, in Williamsburg, VA, at age 86. Formerly of Darien, CT, he spent his career in radio advertising in New York City with CBS, WNEW and WQXR. He is survived by his wife Mary Ellen, son John M. Geddes, daughter Barbara Loh and a granddaughter Andrea Clai
 LEAHEY-Michael I. The Irving Center for Clinical Research mourns the untimely loss of Michael I. Leahey, founder and Director of the Office of Clinical Trials at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. Michael's innovative and bold contributions facilitated the work of clinical researcher
 NOTICE-Gary. The 1955-6 Kelly Stars and the 1957-9 James Madison H.S. Basketball Teams mourn the loss of our teammate and devoted friend Gary ''Shark'' Notice. We will miss your wisdom and friendship, but will carry your memory in our hearts and minds. Our love and sympathy to his devoted f
 WASSERMAN - Dr. Allan. The Board of Governors and Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Charles Roden, President       
 WILLIAMS - Charles C., ''Buzz''. Age 75, of Lake Worth, FL, passed away on January 24, 2003, after a long battle with cancer. Born in Irvington, NJ, he entered the US Navy upon graduation from high school. After active duty he worked at Adler Electronics as office manager and after that beg
 Lou Harrison, a distinguished composer in all genres of classical music, founder of the American gamelan movement and a leading exemplar of the marriage of Asian and Western music, died on Sunday evening at a Denny's restaurant in Lafayette, Ind. He was 85 and lived in Aptos, Calif.        
 AMITIN-Ernest Jonas. Died Sunday, February 2, age 90. Son of the late MenachemMendel (Max) and Sophie (Garfinkle). Brother of Alex, Rita, Isadore, Eva, Harry and Ethel. Born in Manhattan. Former resident of Fort Lee, Westwood, Saddle Brook and Elmwood Park (NJ), New York City and Waterville
 BERGER-Martin. The Officers and Directors of the Fire Island Association record with deep sorrow the passing, on January 27, of Martin Berger, Mayor of Saltaire. His friendship, leadership and his enthusiasm for the betterment of the Fire Island community will be profoundly missed.       
 BROSS - Steward R. Jr. (''Steve''). On January 31, 2003. Loving husband of Isabel, his wife of almost 60 years. Caring father of Donna Campagna, grandfather of Christina Kapp and Brian Cunneff, and great grandfather of Emily Kapp. Retired partner of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore; 
 DALY-Daniel, formerly of Fairfield, CT, died at Pine Plains, NY on February 1, 2003. He was Founder and President of the Mashomack Club and the Mashomack Foundation. He was a veteran of the U.S. Army and attended Columbia University where he was President of St. Anthony Hall, Georgetown Uni
 DEITCH-Audrey. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Continuum Health Partners and its member hospitals acknowlege with sadness the death of Audrey Deitch, beloved sister of our devoted Continuum, Beth Israel and St. Luke's Roosevelt Chairman Morton P. Hyman. Our heartfelt sympathies are exten
 DOUGLAS-Percy S. The Council and members of the University Club mourn the passing of our esteemed and beloved immediate past president, Percy S. Douglas, Yale '56, leader, confidant, raconteur, gentleman, sportsman, patriot and friend. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his family.
 GEDDES-John A. Died on January 31, 2003, in Williamsburg, VA, at age 86. Formerly of Darien, CT, he spent his career in radio advertising in New York City with CBS, WNEW and WQXR. He is survived by his wife Mary Ellen, son John M. Geddes, daughter Barbara Loh and a granddaughter Andrea Clai
 KLEIN-Michael, 65. Of White Plains, NY on February 2, 2003. Devoted husband of Jill, beloved father of Marcie and Anthony and his wife Lynn. Cherished grandfather to Blake Michael. Services will be 12 noon, Wednesday, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, New Yor
 LYMAN - Robert. Passed away on February 1st, 2003. Beloved husband of Sally, loving father of Judi (Mark) Gurewitz, cherished brother of Doris Kaplan. Adored by his friends & family. Funeral service held in Forida.       
 MARGULIES-Alvin. My dearest friend and most competitive Scrabble partner left me on January 30. He beat me again! Love, Joan       
 NOTICE-Gary. The Goldstein family expresses our sincere condolences on the passing of our good friend Gary. Our hearts are with his wife Bea and his daughters Kara, Marci and Jana. Gary has been my friend for 55 years and he will be missed. The Goldstein Family NOTICE - Gary. A good
 ROSSABI-Myer V. The Seventh District Purple Association deeply mourns the loss of our distinguished Masonic Brother and colleague on February 2nd, 2003. He will be missed. George Abraham, President       
 THOMAS-Alexander, M.D., Professor of Psychiatry. The NYU School of Medicine and the Department of Psychiatry wish to express our profound sympathy to the family of Dr. Alexander Thomas, on his untimely death. Dr. Thomas was a devoted, highly prized member of the Department of Psychiatry and
 Richard C. Lee, the former mayor of New Haven whose urban renewal programs in the 1950's and 1960's earned national recognition and created a template for decades of future city revitalization projects, died on Sunday. He was 86. Mr. Lee had suffered from diabetes and heart disease 
 Richard Edmund Lyng, a California businessman who became the secretary of agriculture in the Reagan administration, died on Saturday at his home in Modesto, Calif. He was 84. His death was announced in Washington by the current secretary, Ann M. Veneman, a Modesto native to whom Mr.
 Gregg Rice, a former professor of biology at Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., died Jan. 19 in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 59 and a longtime resident of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause was Alzheimer's, said his wife, Laura. Professor Rice was born in Manhattan and grew up
 Jerome Hines, a bass whose performing career spanned six decades -- including 41 years as a mainstay of the Metropolitan Opera, where he had the longest career of any principal singer in the company's history -- died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Sco
 BROSS - Steward R. Jr. (''Steve''). On January 31, 2003. Loving husband of Isabel, his wife of almost 60 years. Caring father of Donna Campagna, grandfather of Christina Kapp and Brian Cunneff, and great grandfather of Emily Kapp. Retired partner of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore; 
 DALY-Daniel. A good and appreciated friend. He loved Mashomack and the young people who helped him make it a club for all to enjoy. We will miss him greatly and regret not spending more time with him. He is now with the God he loved. Dora and Ted       
 DOUGLAS-Percy S. The Board of Overseers and Overseers Emeriti of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note with great sorrow the sudden passing of our friend and colleague Percy S. Douglas. Always conveying his strong interest in our programs, we will miss his enthusiastic support of our 
 FRIEDMAN - Daniel. We mourn the loss of Danny, our dear friend, and remember him as a source of strength, wisdom, humor and integrity. The memories will live on. Our deepest condolences to his entire family. Danny had a loving partner, his wife Lynn, to help him through the last few years. 
 GALDSTON-Morton, MD, 90, February 3rd, after a long battle with Parkinson's Disease. Beloved husband of Irene; father of Elsa, Kenneth and Philip; father-in-law of Janet Saglio and Nancy Tarshis; grandfather of Jesse, Molly and Daniel. Loving brother of 12 (including Naomi Rosenberg and Ver
 HARRISON-Lou. The American Music Center's Boards of Directors, staff, and membership mourn the death and celebrate the life of one of America's truly great and original artists, our beloved composer Lou Harrison. A student of Henry Cowell and Arnold Schoenberg; colleague of John Cage, Virgi
 KAYE-Arnold ''Arnie'' J. Longtime resident of Westport, CT. Passed away on Tuesday in Norwalk Hospital. Family will receive friends today from 5-9 PM at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home, 31 Arch St., Greenwich, CT. Services will be held Thursday in Temple Sholom, 300 East Putnam Aven
 KESSLER-Lawrence. Larry stood for the best to all who knew him. He always will. With love from his wife Ruth, daughters Jane, Theodora, and Amy; sister Adrienne, and three grandchildren. Following private funeral services, a memorial service will be announced. Donations to Teaneck Ambulance
 LYMAN-Robert. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Sally, and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 McDONNELL-John R., 86. Of Allenhurst, New Jersey died on February 3. Born in NYC. He was a Wall St. Account Exec. for 54 years. Survived by wife Dorothy, children: John, Peter, Jane Steele, Paul & Richard, 13 grandchildren. Visitation will be from 7-9 Thursday and 2-4 & 7-9 Friday at John E
 MILLER-Joel Baird. On February 3, 2003, died peacefully at home after a long and courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his beloved family, wife, Lee Miller (Tarlow), daughter and son-in-law Stephanie and Ken Landau of Oradell, NJ, grandsons Jordan, Avery and Brett Landau and son,
 MULLOWNEY-Edward F., 59. Formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, died suddenly at his home in Palo Alto, CA on January 31, 2003. He was the beloved husband of 36 years of Carole May of Bayonne, NJ and the father of Laura Mullowney of Palo Alto and Alison Cole and her husband Michael of Fremont, CA. He i
 POWERS-Joseph P., 62, of New York City, and husband of Jo Ann Langer Powers, died Wednesday, January 29 at his home. Family and friends of the family may express their condolences on Saturday, February 8, from 1 to 5 P.M. at the residence of Jo Ann Langer Powers. Memorial contributions may 
 Alexander I. Ross, a former advertising executive and national leader in Jewish organizations, died on Tuesday in Rye, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said his daughter, Catherine. For three decades, Mr. Ross worked for the advert
 Arthur J. Olsen, a retired Foreign Service officer and former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause was heart disease, his son-in-law, Gordon Matthews, said. Mr. Olsen covered West and East Germany and Ea
 Jerry Mayer, who won an Obie award for one of his own long-running one-man shows, was found dead in his apartment in Manhattan on Feb. 3. He was believed to be about 60. He was discovered after he missed rehearsals for ''Endgame,'' a workshop production directed by André Gregory. M
 BROOKS-Sheldon von Hagen, 82. Of Key Largo, Florida, formerly of Wayzata, Minnesota died Saturday, February 1, 2003 at his home in Key Largo from complications of prostate cancer. Born in Minneapolis January 10, 1921, son of Paul Andros and Hazel von Hagen Brooks, he attended the Blake Scho
 BROSS - Steward R. Jr. (''Steve''). On January 31, 2003. Loving husband of Isabel, his wife of almost 60 years. Caring father of Donna Campagna, grandfather of Christina Kapp and Brian Cunneff, and great grandfather of Emily Kapp. Retired partner of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore; 
 DOUGLAS-Percy S. The Directors and Shareholders of 550 Park Avenue Corporation mourn the death of Mr. Percy S. Douglas, who served on the building's Board of Directors for more than ten years, most recently as President of the Corporation, and extend their heartfelt condolences to his daugh
 GLADSTON-Morton, M.D. The Department of Medicine of New York University School of Medicine is saddened by the passing of our longtime colleague, Dr. Morton Gladston. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Irene and family. Martin J. Blaser, MD Chairman       
 HARLAN-Dr. Harold, D.D.S., 97, of Jamesburg, NJ, died Tuesday at his home. Services will be today in Temple B'nai Jeshurun, South Orange Ave, Short Hills, NJ. Dr. Harlan was a self-employed dentist in Newark, NJ, for 51 years. He received a Bachelor's degree from New York University, Master
 HINES-Jerome A. Of Scotch Plains on Tuesday, February 4, 2003. Funeral service Friday, February 7 at 11AM at the Evangel Church, 1251 Terrill Road, Scotch Plains. Interment St. Stephen's Cemetery, Millburn. Visitation 2-5 and 710PM at the Rossi Funeral Home, 1937 Westfield Ave, Scotch Plain
 MAIZEL-Ruth W. Of Fair Lawn on Wednesday, February 5, 2003. Beloved wife of Joseph, devoted mother of Dorothy, David and Raymond, warm, loving and proud grandmother of Lee and his wife Jamie, Jay, Ari, Hally, Zachary, Liza and Charlie, great-grandmother of Tatyana and Lake; dear sister of t
 McDONNELL-John R., 86. Of Allenhurst, New Jersey died on February 3. Born in NYC. He was a Wall St. Account Exec. for 54 years. Survived by wife Dorothy, children: John, Peter, Jane Steele, Paul & Richard, 13 grandchildren. Visitation will be from 7-9 Thursday and 2-4 & 7-9 Friday at John E
 MURRAY-Ralph Coughlan. Died on February 1, 2003, in Rye, New York, of complications following a stroke. An attorney and retired partner for the Wall Street law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and McCloy, Mr. Murray graduated from The College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA, in 1941. After
 SCHMUTTER-Morris. The staff of Schmutter, Strull, Fleisch Inc, deeply mourn the passing of Morris Schmutter, former senior partner of our firm. We will miss the wisdom and counsel that he's given over the years. Our deepest condolences to his wife Fran, his children Sue, Gary and Rona and t
 YOUNG-Jack. Website designer and computer genius. Died Tuesday, January 28, 2003. Dearly loved and missed by his wife Gaylin, family and friends. Survived by his daughter Michele and son Christian.       
 Peter Shaw, a retired talent agent, studio executive and a co-producer of the long-running television series ''Murder, She Wrote'' starring his wife, Angela Lansbury, died last Wednesday at the couple's home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. He was 84. British-born like Ms. L
 Albert L. Hotchkin Jr., a wine merchant specializing in Burgundy whose Manhattan shop, restaurants and classes became meeting places for wine enthusiasts of all levels of expertise, died Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause of death has not yet been determ
 Larry LeSueur, the CBS correspondent who reported from the rooftops of London during the blitz of World War II, went ashore in the first waves of the D-Day invasion and made the first radio broadcast to America telling of the Allied liberation of Paris, died on Wednesday at his home in Wash
 BROOKS-Sheldon von Hagen, 82. Of Key Largo, Florida, formerly of Wayzata, Minnesota died Saturday, February 1, 2003 at his home in Key Largo from complications of prostate cancer. Born in Minneapolis January 10, 1921, son of Paul Andros and Hazel von Hagen Brooks, he attended the Blake Scho
 CLARKE-Joseph P. The Society of the Friendly Sons of Saint Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Joseph P. Clarke, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 GALDSTON-Morton, M.D. The Department of Medicine of New York University School of Medicine is saddened by the passing of our longtime colleague, Dr. Morton Galdston. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Irene and family. Martin J. Blaser, MD Chairman       
 JAMPLIS-Robert W., M.D. A notable figure in American medicine died February 3, 2003 in his Woodside, CA. home after a long illness. He was 82. His career in surgery in Palo Alto and at Stanford University covered nearly half a century and was recognized both locally and nationally by numero
 MEROLA-Louis J., 82, on 4 February, peacefully, at the V.A. Hospital in Albany, NY. Born in Brooklyn NY to John and Martha (nee Guglielmo) Merola. Served in the US Army during WWII, as Master Sergeant. A sister, three daughters, a son and two grandchildren survive him.       
 SPEYER - Ronald Jeffrey, Ph.D., 57, of Newport Beach, CA, died on February 3, 2003. He is survived by his loving wife Ellen Vigman Speyer, his beloved children Joshua, Gabriel and Alexandra, all of Newport Beach, CA, and loving brother Franklin of New York City. A gentleman of character, in
 Lord Aberconway, once a major British industrialist who built the Queen Elizabeth 2 ocean liner and who in 1939 took part in a secret meeting with Hitler's close aide Hermann Göring, died on Tuesday in London. He was 89. The meeting with seven British industrialists, aimed at avert
 BOFSHEVER-Bernard. Of Tamarac, FL, died on February 7, 2003, after a valiant struggle with cancer. Born on August 25, 1919, in Brooklyn, NY, Mr. Bofshever served as a captain in the US Army during W.W. II. Upon his return he founded the Metroplitan Lamp Co, retiring in 1988, after 35 years 
 BROOKS-Sheldon von Hagen, 82. Of Key Largo, Florida, formerly of Wayzata, Minnesota died Saturday, February 1, 2003 at his home in Key Largo from complications of prostate cancer. Born in Minneapolis January 10, 1921, son of Paul Andros and Hazel von Hagen Brooks, he attended the Blake Scho
 GALDSTON-Morton, M.D. The Friends of the Library of New York University School of Medicine wishes to remember Dr. Morton Galdston with gratitude and fondness for his support and leadership as president for many years. He was a beloved colleague and teacher, and a historian of medical practi
 JACOBS-Leonard. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 SPATZ-Werner. Born March 26th, 1925, died February 6th, 2003 from Parkinson's disease. Married for fifty-two wonderful years to Ilse. Adored father of David and Linda and Sherrill and Rob. Cherished grandpa (and baba) of Hana, Emma, Alex and ZoeLoving uncle. Son of Dr. Albert and Sitta Spat
 STOCKNOFF-Alan R. On February 2, 2003. Beloved husband of Linda. Loving father of Michele and Michael. Devoted brother of Rhoda Friedland, brother-in-law of Stuart Friedland, uncle of Michael, Laurie, Lisa and Edward, grand-uncle of William, Matthew, Adam, Peter and Andy. May his entire fam
 Robert St. John, a journalist and prolific author who was beaten by Al Capone's thugs, wounded by Nazis in the Balkans and competed against Edward R. Murrow in London, died on Thursday at his home in suburban Maryland. He was 100. Mr. St. John, who wrote 23 books, worked for many ne
 Ernst Kitzinger, one of the 20th century's foremost historians of Byzantine, early Christian and early medieval art, died at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., on Jan. 22. He was 90. Dr. Kitzinger, who taught at Harvard for many years, was one of the last surviving members of an influe
 Dr. Harold S. Ginsberg, a microbiologist whose research provided a foundation for the field of virology and expanded knowledge of infectious diseases, died on Feb. 2 in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 85. The cause was pneumonia. Dr. Ginsberg also headed the microbiology department
 Louis B. Schwartz, an influential legal scholar whose work helped bring about significant changes in the penal codes of many states, died on Jan. 23 in San Francisco. He was 89. In 1962, the American Law Institute, an association of judges, law professors and practicing lawyers, end
 Marcello Truzzi, a sociologist whose research interests included parapsychology, flying saucers and witchcraft, died on Sunday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 67. The cause was cancer, a son, Kristofer, said. Dr. Truzzi, a professor, writer, magician and juggler, appr
 BOVEY-Frank Alden. Died January 19 at Warner, NH. Born in Minneapolis, the son of John and Margaret (Jackson) Bovey, he graduated from the Blake School, Harvard University and received a doctorate from the University of Minnesota. He was a research chemist and the head of the Polymer and Ch
 BREGMAN-Seymour N., 84. Died peacefully February 5. He is survived by his brother, and sister-in-law, Milton and Harriet Bregman of Tenafly, NJ; his sister Helen Cantor and his brother-in-law, Sol B. Cohen of Brooklyn. He was predeceased by his sisters Gertrude Cooper-Smith and Ruth Cohen. 
 BROOKS-Sheldon von Hagen, 82. Of Key Largo, Florida, formerly of Wayzata, Minnesota died Saturday, February 1, 2003 at his home in Key Largo from complications of prostate cancer. Born in Minneapolis January 10, 1921, son of Paul Andros and Hazel von Hagen Brooks, he attended the Blake Scho
 CARLIN-Steve, 84. Died Tuesday, February 4, 2003 of the effects of Alzheimer's. Born in Brooklyn, the son of Russian immigrants, Steve was a brilliant, quiet, poetic man. His wife Peggy and his daughter Melissa loved him dearly and mourn his loss. He is survived by his brother Morty and his
 CHASE-Paul Jerome. Of Mill Neck, NY died at home in Palm Beach, FL on February 7, 2003. He is survived by his wife, Florence McKim Chase, his daughters, Mrs. Edward Culver of Wayland, MA, Mrs. Richard I. Flintoft of New York City, a son Brewster Chase of Ithaca, NY, two granddaughters Ann P
 DePREE-Julian Francis, 58. A resident of Lake Forest for 30 years, died unexpectedly February 1, 2003 in Lake Forest. He was born on March 9, 1944 in Mt. Kisco, NY. Husband of Joan Pillsbury DePree of Lake Forest, IL. Father of Katherine (Jess) DePree Belcher of Lake Bluff, IL, Edmund Austi
 EISNER - Edward. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Loving father of Marian Eisner and Joan Freiman and father-in-law of Rich Kessler and Andrew Freiman. Cherished grandfather of Alexandra. Devoted brother of Jack Eisner and Florence Matthews. He will be missed by all who knew and loved h
 GERMANO-Edward George. On February 6, 2003. Devoted husband of Janice. Beloved father of Troy and Danielle. Cherished grandfather of Jake and Nicolas. Mass of Christian Burial Monday, 10AM, at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, 84th St. and Park Ave., NYC. Interment Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Valhal
 INGRAHAM-Dr. Leonard W. Formerly Director of Social Studies for the New York City Board of Education and Professor of Education at A.S.U. Dr. Ingraham has received various fellowships and honors in the educational world and authored six books for continuing educational studies. He was prece
 JEHLE - Faustin Francis. Born September 16, 1914 in New York. Son of Anna and Augustus Jehle, died at the age of 88 in Palm Beach, Florida on January 21, 2003, from complications of cancer. He is survived by his loving and devoted wife of 54 years, Rosemary, by his three adoring daughters M
 LANGMUIR-David B., 94. Died alert surrounded by his family on January 31. Memorial service on Martha's Vineyard this summer.       
 LISKIN-Louis D., 87, of Englewood, NJ. Born on April 10, 1915 and passed away on February 5, 2003. Loving and beloved husband for 53 years of Anita. Father of David and Max and of Alisa Clausen and Diana Chapman and of his late daughter Dr. Barbara Ann Liskin. Grandfather of Elizabeth and R
 MENDES-Mae. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its distinguished President, Mr. Andrew Mendes. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 MULLOWNEY-Edward F. The partners, associates and staff of Shearman & Sterling mourn the passing of their friend and colleague Ed Mullowney, a partner in the firm's Menlo Park office. Cited recently as one of the ''Best Lawyers in America,'' Ed was universally liked and respected. The firm's
 RAISSMAN-Monroe. 83, of Mount Vernon, NY, passed away peacefully on February 7, 2003, in Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Doris. Devoted father of Laurel Perlman and Bob Raissman. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca and Billy Perlman. For three decades he was the proprietor of L. Raissman
 ROSEE-Irwin. Family man, sports promoter, public relations genius, lover of life, eternal optimist and all around good guy. 93-1/2 years of excitement finally comes to an end. He's reminiscing with his old buddies now. Survived by his wife of 63 years Roslyn, children Marilyn and Richard, t
 STOCKNOFF-Alan R. On February 2, 2003. Beloved husband of Linda. Loving father of Michele and Michael. Devoted brother of Rhoda Friedland, brother-in-law of Stuart Friedland, uncle of Michael, Laurie, Lisa and Edward, grand-uncle of William, Matthew, Adam, Peter and Andy. May his entire fam
 VITT - Samuel Bradshaw. Died peacefully on February 2, 2003, in Newark, Ohio, at the age of 76. Mr. Vitt graduated from Dartmouth College in 1950 and served two years in the U.S. Navy. He then rose through the advertising ranks in New York City to Senior Vice President, Media Director at Te
 BODEN-Joseph F. The children of Joseph F. Boden mark the first anniversary of his passing on February 9, 2002 with great sorrow and much love. Kristina, Stacy, Aimee, Lisa and Paul Boden       
 GETTINGER - Milton M., M.D. The family of Dr. Milton Gettinger expresses its deep sadness at the untimely loss of their son and brother, one year ago today; we will always remember his devoted affection and care for his family, his patients and friends.       
 Vincent G. Chin, who founded one of the world's largest reggae record labels, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 65. The cause was complications from diabetes, said his son Randy. Mr. Chin, who was also known as Randy, was born in Kingston, Jamaica. H
 John Westergaard, a stock picker who built his career on the belief that small companies could richly reward investors who went looking for them, died on Jan. 31 at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. He was 72. The cause was prostate cancer, said his son, Emile Westergaard. In ad
 CHESLEY-Willoughby Freeland. 75, of Stuart, FL, died Saturday, February 8, 2003. Born in Baltimore, MD, he and his family resided in Larchmont, NY, throughout most of his school-age years. A 1948 Tau Beta Pi mechanical engineering graduate of Yale University, Sheffield School of Engineering
 GERMANO-Edward. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Edward Germano and they extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. We are indebted to him for his help in modernizing our audio archives. He shall be remembered for hi
 GROSS-Leon. Died on February 3, in Paris, France. Beloved husband of Dolly. Loving father of Steven and George. Devoted brother of Sam, Fred and daughter-inlaw Ellen, as well as his cherished grandchildren. He was a wonderful, kind and honorable man, loved by all who knew him. His friends i
 GUTMAN-Gregory P. Loving son of the late Sylvia and Harold. Brother of Bradford and Judy. Uncle of Mara and Ilana. Longtime professor at Adelphi University. He will be missed by all.       
 HUBLITZ-W. Charles. 89. Passed away Thursday, February 6, 2003, at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan. Born February 15, 1913, Charles was raised in the Bronx. A longtime employee of Georg Jensen Silversmiths, he rose to the position of Vice President. He later worked for the Lauffer Co.
 LEVENSON-Bernard. After a long illness. He was a caring and generous husband, father, brother and grandfather. He was a veteran of World War II and a science teacher who never stopped learning. His loving family, Ethel, Gertrude and Ken, Doris and Joe, Ellen and Herb, Holly, David       
 Peter McLennan, a copy editor for The New York Times for 23 years, died on Saturday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 55 years old. The cause, pending an autopsy, was believed to be an aneurysm, said his wife, Katherine. Mr. McLennan joined The Times in 1979 and was an edit
 Werenfried van Straaten, a Dutch priest who provided clothes, medicine and food for Germans left destitute by war and who built a Christian charity that is active worldwide today, died on Jan. 31 in a hospital in Bad Soden, Germany. He was 90. The death was announced by Aid to the C
 ABELSON-Jacob, DDS. Of NYC died on February 9, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. He is survived by his wife of 57 years Charlotte, his two children David and his wife Michelle, Lynn and her husband Ken, and his five grandchildren Matthew, Daniel, Jonathan, Lauren and Jordan. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate 
 ATTINSON-Charles. Passed away peacefully February 10, 2003. Loving husband and best friend to Marylin; devoted father to Andrew and Susan; caring father-in-law to Freda, cherished grandfather to Alex and Avery and brother to Miriam and Sol. He will be missed by all that knew him and his mem
 BENDER-William. Born September 3, 1917, died at home February 7, 2003. Survived by his daughters Debbie and Amanda; his niece Susan Rotgard and his dog Freyda. A lifelong leftist and union organizer, born and lived in NYC until retiring to his home in Southampton. Services Friday, February 
 BLEEMER-Norman S. Of Manhattan and West End, N.J. on February 10, 2003, age 69, after a short valiant fight with cancer. Loving husband, devoted father, beloved grandfather and dear brother. He was kind, honest and ethical. Services Wednesday, Feb 12, 11:30AM at Riverside, 76 St. & Amsterda
 DAVY-Raymond P. On February 8, 2003, of Marlton, N.J. and formerly of Rockville Centre, New York, Reston, Virginia and Vero Beach, Florida. Born February 9, 1914, he was the beloved husband of Muriel for 64 years. Devoted father of Robert and Christopher; cherished grandfather of Erin, Robe
 DEUSCHLE-Kurt W., MD. The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the passing of Kurt W. Deuschle, MD. Known as the ''father of community medicine'', Dr. Deuschle defined the discipline, founded the first department of community medicine in a medical school in the US, and, in 1968 founded the nat
 FISHER-Ira L., 81. Formerly of Long Island, NY passed away February 8, 2003. Survived by two children Ceil Fisher-Colson & Rick Fisher and his loving companion Florence Strauss. Lovingly remembered for his creative commercials for Fisher Brothers Famous Coat Store in Cedarhurst. Services in
 FREEMAN - Mark. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Mark Freeman, and send condolences to his family.       
 HABER-Abraham, DDS, age 94. Devoted husband of late wife Rhoda and cherished companion of Jean Teitelbaum. Loving father of Leon and Lewis. Grandfather of Raquel and Pamela. Greatgrandfather of Sam Segal. All will remember his joyful and caring nature, strong spirit and wonderful good humor
 KANE-John. Born October 27, 1928, died suddenly February 6, 2003. John leaves behind his much loved and beautiful wife Mary, as well as his daughter Janet and son-in-law Daniel Scapin, whom he loved completely. John also leaves behind his sister Mary. John was a good, honest, hard working, 
 KATZELL-Raymond A. Age 83. Of Medford, New Jersey. Died February 5, 2003. Loving husband of Kitty, his wife of almost 50 years. Memorial services to be arranged in New York and Medford. Memorial contributions to New York University.       
 LAMBOS-Constantine Peter, 76, of Tampa, Florida, formerly of Crestwood, New York, died peacefully in his sleep at home on Saturday, February 8, 2003. Born August 4, 1926, in Manhattan, Peter served in the United States Army as a rifleman-scout with the 63rd Infantry Division in France and G
 LEEDS-Murray. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend their sympathy to Alfred W. Levy, Chairman Emeritus of our Board on the loss of his brother Murray, a founding supporter of Gurwin. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Jo
 LEHMAN - Aileen Tarrow. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Aileen Tarrow Lehman, beloved mother of Mark Lehman, a cherished and active friend of UJA-Federation. Mark and his wife, Diane, are devoted to helping those in need and sup
 MITCHELL-Peter Howard. Age 45 on February 7, 2003. Beloved son of Isabel Mitchell and Albert Mitchell, loving father of Zachary Nathan Mitchell, dear brother of Dr. Michael D. Mitchell and brother-in-law of Lynne. Caring uncle of Jake, Emma and Chris. Dear nephew and cousin. We will miss hi
 PATTERSON - Myron C., M.D. The entire St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Myron C. Patterson, M.D., a member of the hospital's Cardiology staff for over 50 years. Dr. Patterson forever will be remembered for h
 STOCKNOFF - Alan. The most caring, kind, friendly, fun person we've ever known. Linda, Michelle, Michael and his many, many friends will keep his memory alive forever. You'll always be our best friend. Ellen, Richard and Sean       
 TAUB-Herbert, 84. Of Fort Lee, NJ, on February 8, 2003. Pre-deceased by his first wife, Esther. Devoted husband of Laura. Beloved father of Jessica, Shelley and Lewis. Loving grandfather to seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild. He was a professor of engineering at CCNY for 43 years,
 Ron Ziegler, President Richard M. Nixon's press secretary, died of a heart attack on Monday in his home in Coronado, Calif., his wife, Nancy, told The Associated Press. Mr. Ziegler, who was known for referring to the Watergate break-in as a ''third-rate burglary'' and for steadfastly speaki
 Ruby Braff, a jazz trumpeter and cornetist who defied the odds by rising to fame in the modern era with a resolutely old-fashioned style, died on Sunday in North Chatham, Mass. He was 75 and lived in Harwich, Mass. No cause of death was announced, but he had had lung disease for yea
 Ted Perry, the founder of Hyperion Records, a British classical music label known for exploring the byways of the repertory as devotedly as it does the core literature, died on Sunday in London. He was 71 and lived in London. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter Nicola Perry
 Daniel Toscan du Plantier, a French movie producer who over the last 15 years has presided over Unifrance, the French movie promotion agency, collapsed and died of heart failure here today while attending the Berlin film festival. He was 61. With his long gray hair and military must
 ATTINSON-Charles. Passed away peacefully February 10, 2003. Loving husband and best friend to Marylin; devoted father to Andrew and Susan; caring father-in-law to Freda, cherished grandfather to Alex and Avery and brother to Miriam and Sol. He will be missed by all that knew him and his mem
 COLMAN - Neville, M.D., Ph.D. The Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) and St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center (SLRHC) families join with the leadership of their parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, 
 DEUSCHLE-Kurt W., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague. Dr. Deuschle served as the Ethel H. Wise Professor and Chairman of the nation's first urban department of Community Medicine, which he established at Mount Sina
 KAPLAN-Noel H. On February 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Ronni, adored father and best friend of his sons, Sean and Matthew, cherished brother of Gail. He was very involved in local community government and sincere and dedicated in all he did. Service Wednesday, 12 noon, Temple Beth Shalom o
 KOENIG-Mortimer. Age 100 died peacefully February 10, 2003. Pre-deceased by his late wife, of over 72 years, Stella, son Glenn and sister Rose. Survived by loving daughterin-law, Connie McIntyre and her husband Tom, devoted grandchildren Mark and his wife Debra and Scott and two great-grand
 LAMBOS-Constantine Peter, 76, of Tampa, Florida, formerly of Crestwood, New York, died peacefully in his sleep at home on Saturday, February 8, 2003. Born August 4, 1926, in Manhattan, Peter served in the United States Army as a rifleman-scout with the 63rd Infantry Division in France and G
 LICHT-David E. February 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Louise, father of Jonathan and Joanne Licht; Andrea and Michael Simon; grandfather of Samantha and Jason Simon; Iszy, Aitan and Yadid Licht; brother of Charles and Fran Licht; Sheldon and Rosalind Licht. He dedicated his life to service a
 LIEF-Ruth Ann. Lehman College and The City University of New York mourn the death of Ruth Ann Lief, Lehman's First Lady for 23 years. Leonard Lief was President of Lehman from its founding in 1968 until his retirement in 1990. Mrs. Lief was a gifted cellist and writer whose books include ''
 MANDELKERN-Baruch. It is with great sadness that the entire Beth Israel medical center community joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in noting the passing of Baruch Mandelkern, beloved father-in-law of our good friend, The Honorable Sheldon Silver, Sp
 OLSON-Paul. The Musicians, Trustees, and Staff of The Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of a valued Board Member and Officer, and a good friend, and send our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Dorothy. Paul played a key role in the incorporation of Marlboro in 1951, and generou
 PATTERSON - Myron C., M.D. On February 8, 2003. Associate Clinical Professor of Medicine, Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons. Attending physician at the Roosevelt Hospital for for over fifty years. Survived by his wife of sixty years, Dr. Michaeleen (O' Rourke), daughte
 PECKMAN-Ian. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of regret that we, the Board of Trustees and the Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center family, mourn the passing of Ian Peckman, son of Bruce Peckman, our Senior Vice President of Ambulatory/ Managed Care and Regulatory Services, and his wife
 PLOTKIN-Barnett. The officers and members of The Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member, Barney. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 POPPER-Charles. Son of the late Samuel and Sadie Popper, passed away February 11, 2003. Resided in Manhattan all of his life. Survived by his brother, Gerald, sister-inlaw Anne, many nieces and nephews, and cousins, Sara Anne and Mayer Gusik. Services Friday February 14 at Gramercy Park Mem
 WOODBURN-James W. On February 7, 2003. Survived by his wife MaryAnn & brother Jerry. He was the beloved uncle of 46 nieces and nephews including Matthew and Jessica Woodburn.       
 MIRELOWITZ-Seymour. A stranger to no-one. Gone twenty years. Lovingly remembered and missed by his family, students and friends       
 Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House press secretary whose dogged defense of President Richard M. Nixon through the travails of Watergate made him the public face of a presidency struggling for survival, died of a heart attack on Monday at a hospital in Coronado, Calif., where he had a home. 
 Dr. Neville Colman, a prominent New York hematologist and forensic DNA expert as well as the founder of the West Side Soccer League, a boon for thousands of young Manhattan players, died Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 57 and lived in Morningside Heights. T
 BATES-Lawrence J., 81. Died February 11, 2003 in Huntington, NY. Predeceased by his wife of 47 years, Margaret Williams, in 1991. Survived by sons Andrew and wife Maureen of Kaneohe, HI, Christopher and partner John Garrison of San Francisco, CA and companion for 11 years, Mary H. McLaughli
 COHEN - Marvin. Devoted husband, father and community leader. Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty mourns with his beloved wife Margie, their children Abba, Akiva and Devorah and their grandchildren. Marvin served on our Board for over two decades. His vision and dedication helped us serv
 COLMAN-Neville, MD, PhD. The Department of Pathology of Columbia University sadly notes the passing of Dr. Colman who served with distinction as Professor of Pathology and Director/Chairman, Dept. of Pathology & Lab. Medicine for St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital. His scientific and personal con
 DEUSCHLE-Kurt W., MD on February 10, 2003 at his home in NYC. Dearest husband of Jeanne. Loving father of Kurt Jenner, Sally Ann and James Konrad. Adoring grandfather of eight grandchildren. Friends may call Friday 79PM at Frank E. CampbellThe Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St.
 ECKMAN-Patrick, 49. On February 9. We'll long remember his friendship, tenacious intellect and spirit, extraordinary culinary talents, and exemplary service to NYC, HUD and affordable housing. Our sincere condolences to Renee, Lucas, Anna, Katrina and family. The City Friends       
 KESSLER-Walter. Age 91; died on February 9, leaving behind his loving wife, Dita; his brother, Ernie; cousin Trude, and their families.       
 KUPFER-Stanley. Beloved and devoted husband of Frieda, father of Andrew and Steven, brother of David and Lenore. His smile will always warm us.       
 LEFCOURT-Robert. The entire Cohen Hennessey & Bienstock family mourn with, and send our heartfelt condolences to, the family of our friend, Bob Lefcourt: his wife, Helen; his brother, Jerry; his adoring children and their spouses, Jenny and Francois, and Daniel and Megan, and, in memory of 
 LEVINE-Jack, M.D., 88. Of NYC, died peacefully at home on February 11, 2003. Cherished husband of the late Esther (Quitt), adored father and father-in-law of Michael and Janet, Carol and David, Susan and Malcolm, Jed and Jerry, loving Poppy to 13 grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. B
 SILVER-Alvin. The Nassau County Sports Commission mourns the death of its Board Member, Alvin Silver, Eng Scd, and extends its heartfelt condolences to his widow Judy and to his family.       
 WIMPFHEIMER-Ruth. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Henry Wimpfheimer and his children, Michael Wimpfheimer and Vivian Neiss, on the loss of their beloved wife and mother. We will always remember and cherish Ruth's leadership as a Founder and President of the Medical Center's Women's J
 ZERKOWITZ-Peter. Age 91. On February 5, 2003. A Hungarian war hero who worked for the Resistance in World War II and fought against the communists, Peter emigrated to the U.S. in 1949. Described as a Renaissance man, he possessed a keen intellect and was knowledgeable on a world of subjects
 HAIGHT-Capt. Stanley Reed, Jr. (1924-1973). Died at sea 30 years ago today. He lives on forever in our hearts. Love always, Taube, Karen, Margaret & Laur       
 Clark MacGregor, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota who led President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign in 1972 and remained unscathed by the Watergate scandal that forced Nixon's resignation two years later, died on Monday at a hospital in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 80 an
 Haywood Sullivan, a onetime journeyman catcher who became a part owner and general manager of the Boston Red Sox in the franchise's turbulent years after the death in 1976 of the longtime owner Tom Yawkey, died Wednesday in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 72. Sullivan, who lived in Naples, 
 Kemmons Wilson -- who was so angered by the shabby lodgings he encountered on a family vacation in 1951 that he vowed to start a motel chain, a decision that led to Holiday Inn -- died on Wednesday at his home in Memphis. He was 90. In his 1993 book ''The Fifties,'' David Halberstam
 BRODER-Charles B. (Chip), 50. Of Airmont, NY. Suddenly on Feb. 5. Cherished husband of Celeste, adoring dad of Elexa and Ethan, devoted son of Marvin & Lois Broder and the late Gloria W. Appel. His brothers and sisters mourn his untimely death. Donations can be made to Scholarship Fund, c/o
 BROSS - Steward R. The Trustees and staff of The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine mourn the passing of Steward R. Bross Jr. He was a Trustee Emeritus and treasured member of the Cathedral family. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Isabel, and to his entire family. The Very
 COLIN-Samuel. Age 76. On February 12th, 2003 after a valiant battle surrounded by his family. Devoted father of Amy and Andy Brief & Leslie and J.J. Rosen. Dear stepfather of Mark & Caryn Israel and the late Richard Israel. Beloved fiancee of Debby Israel. Cherished grandfather of Rachel, J
 GOLDIN-Paul. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Paul Goldin, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Bernice, and their family. Old Westbury Golf & CC Frank D'Ambrosio, President Herbert Selzer, Secretary       
 KOLICH-Sy. With heavy hearts the entire Abraham Joshua Heschel School community mourns the loss of a beloved parent, Sy Kolich, a man of integrity and courage who was admired by all who knew him. We send our sincere condolences to his wife, Leslie, and children, Ian and Sarena. May the fami
 LIEBLICH-Daniel Parke, 85. Of Deal, NJ, passed away peacefully on February 11 in Palm Beach, FL. Born and raised in Paterson, NJ, grandson of a major silk manufacturer, he was a graduate of the Hun School, Princeton University '38, and Yale Law School. Co-founding the firm of Lieblich and C
 LUWISCH-Joachim, MD, 97, neuro - psychiatrist, former Director Psychiatry at Goldwater Memorial Hospital, Professor Emeritus NYU. Loving husband of Eileen (nee Costigan). Cherished father of Michael, Edward, Ruth, and the late Elizabeth and Joseph. Adoring grandfather to Jennifer and Lauren
 McGRAW - James H. III. Passed away February 12, 1928. Loving husband of Allola McGraw. Father of Virginia M. Seaverns, James H. McGraw IV, W. Scott McGraw and David D. McGraw. Grandfather to eight grandchildren. Graduate of Deerfield Academy, Princeton University and MIT. Served in the U.S.
 REGAN-Martin J. On February 13, 2003, age 74. Survived by his wife Rosemary. Devoted father of Martin Jr., Michael, Kathleen, Reed, Patricia, Patrick and the late Eileen. Beloved brother of Thomas. Loving grandfather of ten. Retired (FDNY). Served in the U.S. Marine Corps. Friends may call 
 Johnny Longden, the British-born jockey who rode 6,032 winners in a racing career that covered nearly 40 years, including a sweep of the 1943 Triple Crown aboard Count Fleet, died yesterday in Banning, Calif. It was his 96th birthday. He had been in failing health for several years 
 Kid Gavilan, who came out of the Cuban sugar fields to become the world welterweight champion of the early 1950's, displaying a flashy style that featured his signature bolo punch, died Thursday at a hospital in Miami. He was 77. Gavilan, who lived in Hialeah, Fla., had a heart atta
 CHILL-Libbie. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its distinguished member, Mr. Daniel Chill. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 GOLDIN-Paul. At age 81, on February 12, 2003. Beloved husband of Bernice. Devoted father of Steven & Rochelle. Father-in-law of Marjorie. Loving grandfather of Russell and Brian. A gentle and honorable man, he was loved and will be missed by all. Services will be held on Sunday, 10 AM, at I
 HYMAN-Herbert A. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Herbert A. Hyman, beloved father of Rabbi Fred A. and Tova Hyman; grandfather of Talya, Rachel and Rebecca. To them and his wife, Stella, brothers, Jerrold and Joseph; sister, Leora, we extend our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schn
 KRAMER-Bill. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Bill Kramer, husband of Sylvia Kramer, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, Nat'l President       
 LAPLACE-Maurice L. On February 13, he passed away at the age of 85. He was the loving and devoted husband of Dorothy, his wife of fiftyone years. He was an adoring and caring father of Karen, Robin and Lisa and a proud and doting grandfather of Jennifer, Athina, Alex, Lauren and Sophia. He 
 LIEBLICH-Daniel P. The Boards of Trustees, medical and dental staff, and employees of Monmouth Medical Center and Monmouth Health Care Foundation mourn the passing of former Trustee and benefactor, Daniel P. Lieblich, and extend sympathy to his family and friends. George Laufenberg, Chair M
 RABBINO-Mitchell. Central Synagogue of New York mourns with great sadness the passing of our esteemed and beloved Past President Mitch Rabbino. With a great love of Judaism, he led our congregation with dignity and vision. Mitch was a learned man with a fierce loyalty and dedication to our 
 Walt W. Rostow, an economic historian who became one of the principal architects and passionate defenders of the Vietnam War as an adviser to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Thursday night at a hospital in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 86. The son of
 Dr. Landrum B. Shettles, an early developer of in vitro fertilization techniques who gained national attention as the author of ''How to Choose the Sex of Your Baby'' and as a central figure in a lawsuit over efforts to produce the first ''test tube baby,'' died on Feb. 6 in St. Petersburg,
 James Thomas Flexner, a prolific and graceful writer on subjects from American art to steamboats to medicine, who achieved his greatest fame for prize-winning biographies of George Washington, died on Thursday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 95. He wrote a four-volume biography o
 BERG-Seymour, M.D. 4/3/2110/12/02. Seymour Berg, M.D. died on October 12, 2002 at Grosvenor Park Nursing Home in Salem, MA, after a long illness. He was born on April 3, 1921 in the Bronx, to Gustave Berg and Anna Levine Berg. He graduated in 1937 from DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bron
 CHASE-Paul J. Old Westbury Gardens mourns the loss of our longterm Trustee and fellow garden enthusiast. We wish to express our sympathy to his family and especially his wife, Flossie, who devoted herself, with Paul, to both assist and lead events to benefit the Gardens. Peggie Phipps Boegn
 COLIN-Samuel. Age 76. On February 12, 2003 after a valiant battle surrounded by his family. Devoted father of Amy and Andy Brief and Leslie and J.J. Rosen. Dear stepfather of Mark and Caryn Israel and the late Richard Israel. Beloved fiancee of Debby Israel. Cherished grandfather of Rachel,
 FREEMAN-Mark. Died on February 6 at age 94. Predeceased by his wife of 67 years, Polly Allen. Survived by two loving sons, David and Stephen, and seven grandchildren. A noted artist whose prints and paintings from the 1930's chronicle a seminal period of New York City's architectural growth
 GANNON-Anna. The Department of Psychiatry of the Long Island College Hospital wishes to express its profound sorrow and condolences to our esteemed colleague and founding member, Frederick Gannon, M.D., and his family on the death of his wife and their mother, the lovely Anna. She was alway
 KRAMER-William J. At 91, on February 13, 2003. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of Morris and Stephen and father-in-law of Pearl. Loving grandfather of Jeremy, Oliver, Liza and Joseph. He will always be in our hearts and minds. Service Sunday, 1 PM, at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 257
 LEFCOURT-Robert. The entire Cohen Hennessey & Bienstock family mourn with, and send our heartfelt condolences to, the family of our friend, Bob Lefcourt: his wife, Helen; his brother, Jerry; his adoring children and their spouses, Jenny and Francois, and Daniel and Megan, and, in memory of 
 LEVINE-Jack, M.D., 88. Of NYC, died peacefully at home on February 11, 2003. Survived by Michael, Carol, Susan, Jed and Families. Loved by all who knew him. Memorial service Sunday, February 16, 2003, 1:30 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam. Memorial donations may be made to Alzhe
 McGRAW - James H. III. Passed away February 12, 2003, born February 14, 1928. Loving husband of Allola McGraw. Father of Virginia M. Seaverns, James H. McGraw IV, W. Scott McGraw and David D. McGraw. Grandfather to eight grandchildren. Graduate of Deerfield Academy, Princeton University and
 MICHTOM-Robert J. 84. Adored and adoring husband of Joan, beloved and devoted father of Alice and Bill, joyous grandfather of Josh (Anna Shusterman), on February 14, 2003. His wit, humor, keen mind and sweetness will accompany and inspire us always. Memorial service at Westchester Meadows, 
 MYHLING-John G., 74. Formerly of Rhinebeck, NY died February 7, 2003 in Wuppertal, Germany. Born in Cleveland, OH, on September 7, 1928. He was a graduate of Ohio State Univ. and a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Myhling served as Assistant to the President of American Home Products for 24
 O'CONNOR-Edward John. (84.) On February 13, 2003. One of ''New York's Finest'' for 35 years. He is survived by his wife Frances; five children, Edward, Kathleen, Maryann, Geraldine and John Patrick; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. ''A Man For All Seasons'' who will be gre
 REYNOLDS-Warren J. Publisher emeritus of PARADE Magazine, Died February 10, 2003, after a short illness, in Sarasota, FL. During his 36 years at PARADE, Reynolds was instrumental in building PARADE into the widest circulated weekly magazine in the world. Reynolds was born in Chicago in 1918
 RICE-Dan (Daniel Stacey). 76, of Madison, CT. After a long and brave battle with emphysema died peacefully at home overlooking his salt marsh January 28, surrounded by his loving family. Younger member of the New York School, an abstract impressionist, master of color and light. Admired by 
 SADOCK-Theodore Ronald. Age 92, passed way on February 15, at his home in Albuquerque, NM, surrounded by his loving children Teo and Kukla. He was a devoted husband and father, a distinguished physician who spent a large part of his career serving Native Americans. He is at rest with his be
 SAWOTKA-Paul Friedrich. Of Eastchester, NY, on February 14. Born January 2, 1908, in Berlin, Germany. Proud American immigrant and active member of his community. Member Steuben Society, Edelweiss Club, Elks Lodge #       
 Rudy Sablo, a leading athlete, coach and administrator in American weight lifting and other sports for more than 60 years, died Feb. 4 in his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Competing at 170 pounds, Sablo lifted 335 pounds in the clean and jerk and 270 pounds in the snatch. His liftin
 Walter L. Pforzheimer, one of the founding fathers of the Central Intelligence Agency and the creator of its historical archives, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 88. Mr. Pforzheimer was one of a small number of men who started working for the intelligence agency at 
 David E. Feller, a lawyer and law professor who researched and argued important civil rights and labor cases, including more than a dozen that went to the Supreme Court, died on Monday in Oakland, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. In the 1950's, Mr. Feller was on a pane
 George E. Freestone, who joined the Boy Scouts when the organization was just starting in America and who was still active 92 years later, died on Feb. 8 in Mesa, Ariz. He was 104. Mr. Freestone was the nation's oldest known living scout, said Brandi Mantz, a spokeswoman for the Boy
 BLUMENTHAL - Samuel. Died suddenly on February 15. He was a wise and gentle man with an enduring love of music and his synagogue. His wife Carol, children Janet, Stephen, Robert, Antje, grandchildren Zack and Josh, and Carol's children Laura, Peter, Beverly, Janet and grandchildren Benjamin
 COHAN-Harold. On February 15, 2003, of Old Westbury, NY. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Devoted and loving father of Sharon and Philip Ross, Seth and Lori Cohan. Dear brother of Leonard Cohan. Cherished and adored grandfather of Carley, Elliot, Alexandra, Danielle and Hannah. All sought his cou
 O'CONNOR-Edward John. (84.) On February 13, 2003. One of ''New York's Finest'' for 35 years. He is survived by his wife Frances; five children, Edward, Kathleen, Maryann, Geraldine and John Patrick; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. ''A Man For All Seasons'' who will be gre
 BERES-David, M.D. Age 99, Past President of The American Psychoanalytic Assoc., on February 15, 2003 at The Carolton in Fairfield, CT. Predeceased by his wife, Dinah and son, Robert. He is survived by his son, Paul Beres, M.D. of Westport, CT; his grandchildren, Linda Karen Beres, Mary Elle
 BLUMENTHAL-Samuel. A gentle person, a builder of consensus and community, a lover of culture and the Jewish people, he helped build and served as chair of each of the major institutions of the Jewish Reconstructionist movement, where his good work continues to touch the lives of thousands. 
 COHAN-Harold. On February 15, 2003, of Old Westbury, NY. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Devoted and loving father of Sharon and Philip Ross, Seth and Lori Cohan. Dear brother of Leonard Cohan. Cherished and adored grandfather of Carley, Elliot, Alexandra, Danielle and Hannah. All sought his cou
 CRAIG - George M., 87. Passed away peacefully Sunday, February 9 at his home in Cambridge, NY from renal failure. Originally from Elmhurst, Queens, he moved upstate to live with his godson John Carlson and family. He leaves no surviving blood relatives, but many friends and chosen family wh
 EISENSTADTER-Alfred, 86. Died February 13, 2003. Born in Germany, he risked his life by joining a resistance group to fight the Nazis before leaving for New York City in 1940. A lifelong believer in social justice, he was a devoted guidance counselor and a volunteer lawyer for New York Lega
 ESKAY - Richard Spencer. Beloved husband of Marion Miller. Loving father of Marjorie, Linda, and Julie; grandfather to seven grandsons. President of RSK Associates, a representative of Specialty Planners; Producer, with his wife, of Pathways to Children's Literature. Proud and active alumnu
 HARTMAN-Paul. Former Director of the law department at the Anti - Defamation League is survived by his beloved wife Marianne, son Michael, daughter-in-law Thelma, and grandchildren Danielle and Robert. Services Wednesday, February 19 at 12 Noon at Schwartz BrosJeffer Funeral Home, 114-03 Qu
 MARSHALL-John C. Of Bronxville, NY, passed away peacefully on February 8, 2003. He attended the College of William and Mary and was a graduate of Swarthmore College Class of 1948. He spent most of his career at American International Group, retiring as a Managing Director in their Global In
 MEHLER-Irving. We mourn the passing of Irving, cherished father of our son-in-law Gordon and his wife Ariel, beloved ''Zaide'' to Grace and Rachel, erudite, endeared member of our extended Propp-Riback family. Condolences also to his son Philip and his wife Leah, grandchildren Avi, Loni, Be
 RATNER - Randy. Passed away February 16. Loving daughter of Harry and the late Anita; stepdaughter of Lilian; sister of Scott and his wife Marjorie; loving aunt of Amanda, Carolyn & Claudia. Services are on Wednesday 10AM at Riverside Nassau North, 516-487-9600.       
 WOHL-Ronald Gene. Of Roslyn Estates, NY, on February 16, 2003. Very devoted to his family and friends. Beloved husband of Linda. Loving father of Allison and her husband Christopher George, Arthur and Amanda. Belovedgrandfather of Emma, Elizabeth, Caroline and Julia. We will miss him dearly
 Lee S. Kreindler, who is considered the founder of air disaster law, and whose law firm, Kreindler & Kreindler, represented plaintiffs in almost every major aircraft disaster in the last half-century, died yesterday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78. . The caus
 ALFORD-Robert. We deeply mourn the untimely loss of our distinguished colleague, a passionate sociologist and dedicated teacher, & extend condolences to his family. Frances Degen Horowitz, President, CUNY Graduate Center       
 BERES-David, M.D. Age 99, Past President of The American Psychoanalytic Assoc., on February 15, 2003 at The Carolton in Fairfield, CT. Predeceased by his wife, Dinah and son, Robert. He is survived by his son, Paul Beres, M.D. of Westport, CT; his grandchildren, Linda Karen Beres, Mary Elle
 COHAN-Harold. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Harold Cohan, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Roslyn, and their family. Old Westbury Golf & CC Frank D'Ambrosio, President Herbert Selzer, Secretary       
 CRAIG-Laurence B. Distinguished World War II veteran. Age 85. Died on February 18 after a long illness. Survived by his wife of sixty years, Helene Elmaleh Craig, his son Geoffrey, his daughter Lisa and two granddaughters Amanda and Antonia.       
 DUFFY-Robert W., M.D., 85. Of Venice, FL, died February 15th, 2003. He was a former resident of Manhasset, NY. Survivors include his wife, Jeanne E. Duffy.       
 GIDALY-Walter. On February 17. Beloved husband of Barbara Gidaly. Devoted uncle of Ronnie, Glenn and Jed. Also survived by many grandnieces and grandnephews. Memorial service to be held at a later date. GIDALY-Walter. We mourn the very great loss of our esteemed Secretary and devote
 GOODMAN-Dr. David B.P., February 17, 2003. Beloved husband of Kathie (nee Greenacre) of Wynnewood, PA. Devoted father of Derek and his wife Lauren Goodman and Alex and his wife Dr. Caren Kurtz Goodman. Devoted brother of Beverly and Dr. Robert Wesman. Relatives and friends are invited to fu
 GWERTZMAN-Adelaide. On February 18, 2003, at age 92. Loving wife of the late Max J. Gwertzman. Cherished mother of Bernard M. Gwertzman and his wife Marie-Jeanne, and Stephen N. Gwertzman & his wife Sheila. Grandmother of Dr. Alan Gwertzman, Lisa Donnelly, Lynn Hendricks, John Spencer, Jame
 KREINDLER-Lee S. Distinguished trial and appellate lawyer, the Senior Partner of the Law Firm Kreindler & Kreindler, that he and his father, Harry Kreindler foundeded in 1952. Beloved and dedicated husband of his adoring wife Ruth, revered father of James P. Kreindler and Laurie Kreindler a
 PLITT-George. 87, pioneer developer of the cat litter and wild bird food industries, died on February 16 in West Palm Beach, FL. His wife, Rose, children, Arthur and Miriam, Arlene and Richard Kossoff, Jane Plitt and James Bruen, grandchildren, Hugh, Seth, Drew, Laura, Brett and Beth and gr
 POLITE-L. John Jr. 81. A longtime resident of Saddle River, N.J and Jupiter, Florida died Sunday, February 9, from complications of surgery. Born on April 30,1921 in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, Mr. Polite attended Aspinwall H.S. and went on to graduate from Williams College in 1942. Thereafte
 REYNOLDS-Frederick. The Simon's Rock College of Bard community mourns the passing of a devoted friend and member of its Board of Overseers and sends deepest condolences to his family. Leon Botstein, President David E. Schwab II, Chairman, Bard College Trustees Bernard F. Rodgers, Jr., Vice 
 ROSENBACH-Kurt. Died after a brief but courageous battle with cancer on February 17, 2003 at age 75. He was surrounded by Bernice, his loving wife of 50 years, his children Karen and Gary, and their spouses Tom and Susan. Kurt was cherished and adored and will always be remembered by his fi
 WOHL-Ronald Gene. Of Roslyn Estates, NY, on February 16, 2003. Very devoted to his family and friends. Beloved husband of Linda. Loving father of Allison and her husband Christopher George, Arthur and Amanda. Beloved grandfather of Emma, Elizabeth, Caroline and Julia. We will miss him dearl
 YOUNG-Daniel M. of Atlanta GA at the age of 85. Former resident of NYC. Graduate of Rutgers University. Distinguished Pilot in the 384th bomber group, captain of the ''Damned Yankee'' B-17 in W.W. II, Daniel completed 23 missions over enemy occupied Europe. Retired 1971. A small business ow
 Dr. Paul Meehl, a University of Minnesota psychologist whose writings on research methodology, mental illness and other topics influenced generations of researchers and psychotherapists, died on Friday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 83. The cause was chronic myelomonocytic leuke
 Jim Gordon, who broadcast Giants, Rangers and Knicks games on radio and television for almost 40 years, died at his home in Putnam Valley, N.Y., on Sunday, the day after his 76th birthday. The cause was cancer, his wife, Jeanne, said. Mr. Gordon's career began in local radio
 Johnny Paycheck, one of the most influential country singers of the last 40 years and yet for stretches of his career a Nashville pariah who became more famous for what he did spectacularly wrong than what he did right, died yesterday at 64. The cause was respiratory failure, and Mr
 Richard Orme Wilberforce, a retired member of Britain's highest court and keeper of his family's antislavery tradition, died on Saturday at a hospital in London. He was 95. He was a prominent judge in postwar Britain, known for handling both criminal and civil matters with a keen in
 ANDERSON - Quentin, 90. Died peacefully at home in New York City on February 18, 2003. Devoted husband of Thelma; cherished father of Martha, Brom and Maxwell and his wife Jacqueline; adored grandfather of Chase; and loving brother of Alan, Terence, and Hesper. Julian Clarence Levy Professo
 BURSTEIN-Charles. Age 90, beloved husband of Anna, father of David Burstein, M.D. and Emanuel Burstein, L.L.M., Ph.D., father-in-law of Dr. Joan Bregstein, adored grandfather of Shana and Jonah. Born in Kolno, Poland, emigrated to America at age 7, raised on the Lower East Side, World War I
 GIDALY - Walter. Distin guished Entertainment Attorney, dedicated contributor to the Arts, loyal partner and friend for over 30 years. Our deepest sympathy to Barbara, his true love. Edward D. Moldover and Gerald M. Hertz       
 GWERTZMAN-Adelaide. On February 18, 2003, at age 92. Loving wife of the late Max J. Gwertzman. Cherished mother of Bernard M. Gwertzman and his wife Marie-Jeanne, and Stephen N. Gwertzman & his wife Sheila. Grandmother of Dr. Alan Gwertzman, Lisa Donnelly, Lynn Hendricks, John Spencer, Jame
 JUSTMAN-Joseph. Passed away on February 17, 2003 at age 91. Predeceased by his beloved wife Gussie. Survived by his loving daughters Judith Justman, M.D. and Norma Greenfield, Ph.D. and his dear grandsons, Lawrence and Samuel Greenfield. Dr. Justman received a Ph.D. from Columbia University
 KREINDLER-Lee S. Distinguished trial and appellate lawyer, the Senior Partner of the Law Firm Kreindler & Kreindler, that he and his father, Harry Kreindler foundeded in 1952. Beloved and dedicated husband of his adoring wife Ruth, revered father of James P. Kreindler and Laurie Kreindler a
 LEEDS-Robert Lewis Jr. (1930-2003) died February 17, 2003. Born in NYC, son of Robert L. Leeds and Elizabeth Bandler Hale. He was a Professor at the University of South Florida and former CEO of Manhattan Industries. Company was founded by his great-grandfather Lewis Levi in 1857. He is sur
 LEWIN-Gerhard, Ph.D. Age 96, died peacefully February 15, 2003 in West Orange, NJ. Married 65 years to Gerda who predeceased him, father of Gabriela and Vivian, grandfather of Nicole, Alyssa, and Meredith (Puppeli). A research physicist and nature lover, he used his brilliant inquisitive mi
 MAGEE-Benjamin. A vibrant, charismatic performer, a composer/lyricist of great versatility and a unique man of humor and inspiration. Those of us who knew and worked with Rusty were indeed privileged. My deepest thoughts are with his son Nat, and remarkable wife Alison Fraser. Charles Busch
 RADE-Arthur. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of our congregant, Arthur Rade. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Wendy and sons, Sam and Danny, and their families. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, Presid
 TROOBNICK-Eugene E. 75, actor. Founder: Playwrights Theatre Club. Founding member: Second City. Dozens of television appearances, most recently as Stavroson Guiding Light. Broadway plays: 8, Off: 12 Movies: The Imported Bridegroom, Harvey Middleman Fireman, Funny Lady, All That Jazz, among 
 Benyoussef Ben Khedda, an Algerian nationalist leader who announced his country's negotiated independence from France on July 3, 1962, but was quickly swept from power by the revolutionary forces he had helped unleash, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Algiers. He was 82. Mr. Ben Khedda
 Jack Brodsky, who combined a career as a marketing and publicity executive at a half-dozen movie studios with a second career as a movie producer, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said Tom Sherak, a former head of distribution at F
 ALBERT-Sam. Information technology industry pioneer, consultant and the creator, producer and voice of COMPUTIPS on 1010 WINS, died Sunday, February 16th, 2003. In his 30 years with the IBM Corporation, he created IBM's business partner program and pioneered the firm's worldwide relationshi
 ANDERSON-Quentin. The Board of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Julian Clarence Levy Professor in the Humanities Emeritus, Columbia University, Quentin Anderson. His extraordinary spirit enriched many lives and he will be sorely missed by
 BERES-David, M.D. The Officers and Members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute express their sorrow at the death of their esteemed and beloved colleague. Dr. Beres was a highly respected clinician, teacher and was President of the Society from 1969-1971. Our deepest sympath
 CONNAL-Jon Andrew, 31, February 18, beloved husband of Heidi. Devoted son of Johanna and Edson (deceased), brother of Shannon Sierra. Loving son-in-law of Jim and Elaine Marstall. Dear uncle of six nieces and nephews. Jon embraced life to its fullest, leaving all who knew him with a brighte
 FRIEDMAN-Morris R. On February 14, 2003, of Brooklyn, Belle Harbor and Kingston, NY. Born January 4, 1912, Tarnow, Poland to Aaron and Manya, he escaped the chaos of W.W. I with his mother and sister Fay when Queen Wilhelmina of Holland provided passage to NY. Morris worked 55 years for Bar
 GINGOLD-Sol, DDS. Died on February 20 after a long illness. Served as a Captain in the Army Air Corps during WWII. Survived by his wife of sixty years Evelyn Block Gingold, daughters Laurie Frankel, Janet Marcus and Arleen Gingold, sons-in-law Van, Richard and William and grandchildren Josh
 MILLER-Robert G., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family is saddened by the untimely passing of our friend and colleague, a dedicated and respected family practitioner who was beloved by the hospital staff and his patients. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Miller family, par
 MILMAN-Abraham W. On February 19, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Regina. Devoted father of Eva and Morris. Cherished grandfather of Benjamin, Daniel, Rebecca and Noah. Services Sunday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory may be made to Bro
 WALSH-James Eugene (Big Jim). Suddenly on February 18, 2003. Loving husband of Catherine Patricia, devoted and adored father of Karen Byrnes (Tom), Laureen Paul (Jeff), John Walsh (Michele Pisani). Beloved ''Poppie'' of Jeffrey, Thomas, Jonathan, Katie Beth, Ryan, Kirsten and Lauchlan. Cher
 Harry Jacunski, a member of the Fordham football team's line known as the Seven Blocks of Granite, died Thursday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford of congestive heart failure. He was 87. The nickname was originally applied to Fordham linemen during the 1929-30 seasons and reviv
 Julian Bigelow, a mathematician and electrical engineer who was a pioneer in the fields of cybernetics and computing, died on Monday in Princeton, N.J., where he lived. He was 89. In 1946, when John von Neumann set out to design and build a stored- program computer at the Institute 
 Orville L. Freeman, who as secretary of agriculture under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson aggressively promoted food assistance for poor people and exports of American farm goods, died on Thursday in Minneapolis. He was 84. Mr. Freeman, the governor of Minnesota fro
 BAKER - J. Stewart Jr. Passed away on February 20 after a long illness. Mr. Baker was born in Short Hills, NJ and attended The Hill School and Princeton. During WWII, he was a Lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, serving as a pilot forward artillery observer in Europe. After the war, Mr. Baker
 GALDSTON-Morton, M.D. The faculty of The Pulmonary/Critical Care Division of the NYU School of Medicine and Bellevue Hospital Chest Service regrets the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Morton Galdston. A noted scientist and scholar, and humane physician who served NYU since his mecica
 JONES-Dorothy Knight Nesbut. On behalf of the Board of Trustees of the Intrepid Museum, I would like to express our sincerest condolences to Paul Tudor Jones and his family on the loss of his mother, Dorothy. Our heart goes out to you, Paul. M. Anthony Fisher, Chairman and CEO Bill White, C
 MILMAN-Abraham W. On February 19, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Regina. Devoted father of Eva and Morris. Cherished grandfather of Benjamin, Daniel, Rebecca and Noah. Services Sunday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory may be made to Bro
 ROSS-Matthew H. Beloved husband of the late Mildred Ross; loving dad to Jane, Allen and Eleanor; cherished grandfather and great-grandfather. Passed after a long and wonderful life. Private service and interment. Donations may be made to the Legal Aid Society of NY. ROSS-Matthew. Ce
 SEDLIS-Gabriel. Architect AIA. Son of Dr. Elias and Anna Sedlis. During W.W. II, fought Nazis with partisans of Wilno. Will be missed for his warmth, wit and high standards by wife Joanna, daughter Sophia Anna, son James, daughter-in-law Amy, brother Alik, sister-in-law Mila, nephews and ni
 URQUHART-Norman R. Of Pearl River, N.Y. on February 21, 2003. Survived by his wife Dorothy Urquhart, five daughters Rhea Fletcher, Amy Urquhart, Heidi Besold, Julia Cescot and Vera Schofer; two sons Norman Urquhart and Angus Urquhart and 11 grandchildren. Mr. Urquhart was an agricultural an
 Dr. Elliott S. Shapiro, an educator and psychologist whose fight against public school squalor and bureaucratic lethargy drew wide attention in the 1960's, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 91. Dr. Shapiro, a veteran of the tumult over racial integration and the decentralization o
 Dr. Luke C. L. Yuan, an experimental physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory, a science educator and a benefactor of a Chinese museum honoring his wife, Dr. Chien-Shiung Wu, a noted physicist, died on Feb. 11 in Beijing. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Yuan had fallen ill 
 BASSEN-Frank A., MD, 99. Of Hopewell Jct, formerly of Rye, February 17. He identified Bassen-Kornsweig Syndrome, that is now known as Betalipoprotein deficiency. Survivors include son Michael; daughter Denise; grandchildren Daisy, Kay and David.       
 BODMAN-John Morgan Jr. (Jack). Age 60. On February 16, 2003. Devoted father to Pierre M. Bodman. Suddenly taken away from the ones he loved. A spirited and whimsical mind, he was a lover of peace and reconciliation. He served as an Air Force Captain during the Viet Nam War and was also a tr
 DILLON-Irwin T. Born 1906 in Toronto, Canada, passed away surrounded by his family January 13, 2003 at the age of 96. A graduate of University of Toronto and New York University. He became a leading tenor with New York City Opera in the '40's under Lazlo Halasz after years of touring Canada
 DUDLEY-James Lawson of Westhampton, on February 9, 2003. Survived by his wife Anne ''Cathy'' Pavlak, mother Dorothy L. Dudley of Quiogue, NY, brothers William of Harwood, MD, and Robert of Eastport, NY. A memorial service will be held Saturday, March 1, at 2:00 PM at the Westhampton Presbyt
 FISCHER-Ramsay M.B. Age 86 of Mantoloking, NJ formerly of Bronxville, NY and Wynnewood, PA, died on February 14. He was a member of Squadron A (NY), serving in the 101st Calvary in a horse troop and later with the British Admiralty Technical Mission during W.W. II. He was predeceased by his
 HEFFNER-Howard M., 81. Died after a brief illness at his home in Carlsbad, CA. on February 17, 2003. With him were Rosella, his beloved wife of 60 years, their sons Kenneth and Scott, and daughters-in-law Susan and Sherri. A native of New York City who during WWII was in the Army Air Force,
 JOHNSON-Ward L. Jr. Age 81, of Essex, CT, and Cold Spring Harbor, NY, died in his sleep February 20, 2003. Loving husband of Jean Taylor Johnson; devoted father of Pamela, Timothy, Taylor and Brown; proud grandfather of Sara, Katharine, William and Louisa; great-grandfather of Ian. Graduate
 KAUFMANN-John M.P. February 17. Loving husband of Rose. Devoted father of Alexander and Nicholas. Adored ''brother'' of Didi Stern. Services will be held in Hong Kong where he lived for the past 15 years.       
 MACHT-Elliot G., Attorney, 50, of Glastonbury, CT, born in Rockville Centre, NY, died February 15, 2003. Beloved husband of Debra (Stern) and father of Julie and Ryan. Also survived by father Stanley and his wife Susan, mother Nancy, siblings Richard, Roger, Alma, Cynthia and Emily. Donatio
 MILMAN-Abraham W. On February 19, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Regina. Devoted father of Eva and Morris. Cherished grandfather of Benjamin, Daniel, Rebecca and Noah. Services Sunday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory may be made to Bro
 MITCHELL-John J., age 90. Loving father of Paul and Elizabeth. Loved and respected by everyone he touched. A great man of unseen dimension. We miss you, Pop! Donations to: Louis Armstrong House and Archive, Queens College.       
 PEAVY-Leopold Jr. In Lincoln, MA, February 18, 2003. Husband of Elizabeth ''Betsy'' (Johnson). Father of Sara Peavy of NYC and Leopold ''Dexter'' Peavy III and his wife, Maria of Woodbridge, CT. Also survived by four grandchildren and several nieces and nephews. Memorial services in Hamilto
 SCHAPIRA-Benno. Of Weston, CT, died Thursday, February 20. He had an extensive and varied career as a world class photographer, international commodity banker and successful investor. He was known for his discriminating taste in art and wine, as well as his love of travel and gourmet cookin
 SEDLIS-Gabriel. Architect AIA. Son of Dr. Elias and Anna Sedlis. During W.W. II, fought Nazis with partisans of Wilno. Will be missed for his warmth, wit and high standards by wife Joanna, daughter Sophia Anna, son James, daughter-in-law Amy, brother Alik, sister-in-law Mila, nephews and ni
 SUSMAN-William. A veteran of The Abraham Lincoln Brigade and a founder of The Abraham Lincoln Brigade Archives, Bill is deeply mourned as an activist for social justice, a film producer, and a husband, father, and grandfather, by his wife Helene of Great Neck, NY, his daughter Susan and her
 UTZ-Edward C., 76. A Westport, CT resident, since 1968, died at his home on February 11, 2003. Ed was a beloved husband and devoted father, an avid tennis player, a dedicated little league umpire, and a dear friend to all who knew and loved him. He was a private man with many public convict
 WAJNBERG-Isaak. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Isaak Wajnberg, beloved father of Larry Wajnberg. Larry, a member of our Board of Directors, and his wife, Lilly, are devoted to supporting Jewish and humanitarian causes throughou
 WILENITZ-Israel. Of Greenwich Village and East Setauket, on February 20, 2003. For fifty-one years, he was the adored husband of Evelyn Berezin, the light of his life. Beloved uncle to Sara Selms and Joan Schulman and cherished brother of Solomon and Mina Bar-Sinai, of Sidney and Miriam Ber
 DRABKIN-Steven Wayne, 10/19/61-2/23/81. What words can hold our pain and sorrow? We remember the warmth of his love. Loving Family       
 Rusty Magee, a composer and lyricist for the theater and a cabaret artist, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 47 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in Shawnee-on-Delaware, Pa. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Alison Fraser, an actress. Among Mr. Mag
 Daniel Aaron, a refugee from Nazi Germany and an orphan who went on to become a founder of Comcast, the largest cable company in the country, died last Thursday in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 77. The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to the company. In 1963, 
 Fred Hudson, the president and artistic director of the Frederick Douglass Creative Arts Center, which has nurtured three generations of African-American writers, actors and playwrights, died on Feb. 13 at his Manhattan home. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, said Yvonne Hudso
 George de Kay, who fostered the early careers of best-selling novelists and issued popular nonfiction as the president of one of New York's last independent publishing houses, M. Evans & Co., died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. de Kay, who also lived in Stonington, Conn., was 76.
 ALLEN-Alton K. Died peacefully on February 22. Loving husband of Silvia. Devoted father of Harvey, Lois and Donna. Dear brother of Rosalind and brother-in-law of Murry. Beloved uncle of many nieces and nephews. Founder of A.K. Allen Corp. and Allenair Products. Friend and mentor to his many
 de KAY-George Colman. President of M. Evans & Co., book publishers, died of cancer at his NYC home on February 22, at 76. He also lived in Stonington, CT. He is survived by his wife Miranda; children Colman, Sarah & Charles; brother James Tertius de Kay; & two step-children, Alexandra Booke
 FULLER-Bernard H. 95, February 23, in Boca Raton, FL. Survived by wife Helen, children Harrison, June, Deborah, seven grandchildren, 20 great-grandchildren and 13 great-great-grandchildren. In 1933 he established Fuller Tool Company and retired at the age of 88. An early and lifelong suppor
 LAMITIE-Robert E. 76, of Leadville, CO. Mr. Lamitie was Assistant Commissioner of Education in New York State from 1972-1984. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago, his master of education degree from Springfield (MA) College, and doctor of education from Teachers
 MAEVIS-Alfred C. 86, of Sarasota, FL, on February 12, 2003. Predeceased by his beloved wife Ada Naden. Graduated magnum cum laude from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, 1937. Served with 125th Construction Battalion, USN, 1943-1945. Retired Assistant Postmaster General. Former New York Cit
 ROSS-Harold. Of Boynton Beach, FL. On February 22, 2003. Beloved husband to Rebecca. Wonderful and most loved father to Karen. Cherished grandfather to Rachel and Joshua. Loving son and grandson. Devoted brother to Ruth and Marilyn. Lifetime member of the New York State Board of Certified P
 SEDLIS - Gabriel. Sincere condolences to the Sedlis family. We will always miss Gabriel, his wit and his humor. The Etingin Family       
 Quentin Anderson, a literary critic, cultural historian and Columbia professor emeritus of American literature, died Tuesday at his home in Morningside Heights. He was 90. He wrote, most notably, ''The American Henry James'' (1957), a critique of the novelist's work, and ''The Imper
 Robert K. Merton, one of the most influential sociologists of the 20th century, whose coinage of terms like ''self-fulfilling prophecy'' and ''role models'' filtered from his academic pursuits into everyday language, died yesterday. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Merton gaine
 Louis LaRusso II, a prolific playwright whose characters often relived the tribulations of the working people among whom he lived, died on Saturday in Jersey City. He was 67 and lived in Hoboken. The cause was bladder cancer. He described the diagnosis and spread of his cancer in an
 COHEN-Nathan, 83. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of New Hyde Park, NY, died peacefully at Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton on Friday, February 21, 2003. Survived by his devoted wife of 61 years, Ruth (Heller) and children, Mark and Ellen Cohen and granddaughter Julie of Scarsdale, NY; Sandy 
 FULLER-Bernard H. Age 95, in Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Great Neck, NY. He is survived by his wife of 72 years, Helen, also 95, and children Deborah, Harrison, and Patricia, and June and Martin Sloane; seven grandchildren, twenty great grandchildren and 13 great-great grandchildren. H
 GERE-Sandor (Alex). On February 21, 2003 of Little Neck and Centre Island. Engineer, author, creator, and patentee of stressless building stone cladding systems. President of Stonimpex, Inc., Stone Tech, Inc. and General Stone Industries, Inc. all of New York. Expert lecturer and consultant
 GIORDANO-Salvatore. On February 22, 2003 in Morristown, NJ. Beloved husband of Carmela (Fico) of 70 years. Cherished father of Salvatore and his wife Anne of Bernardsville and Joseph and his wife Charlotte of Basking Ridge. Loving grandfather of nine and great-grandfather of 24. Caring brot
 LEVINE-Bernard C. College professor, mentor and administrator, died at home on February 22, 2003, after a courageous struggle with pancreatic cancer. Adored husband for 53 years of Bunny (Bernice) Utal Levine, most extraordinary and beloved father of Marty, Francie and Joe, cherished father
 MERTON-Robert K. On February 23, 2003. Adored husband of Harriet Zuckerman Merton; loving father of Robert C. & Vanessa Merton, and Stephanie Tombrello; cherished grandfather and great-grandfather; devoted brother of the late Emma Hopkins. Contributions in his memory may be made to Columbia
 NATHANSON-Gary S. (Yaron), 76. Peacefully on February 23. He was a graduate of Music and Art High School and received a B.A. and an M.A. from the University of Wisconsin. He was a W.W. II army veteran and served in both the European and Pacific theaters. A member of Actors Equity, he enjoye
 PHIPPS-Thomas Wilton. Of Southampton, NY, died peacefully on February 20, 2003 at the age of 89. At his side were his devoted wife Mary of 54 years and his beloved children Sally, Lang, and his daughter-in-law Jana. Services will be held on March 1 at St. John's Episcopal Church in Southamp
 RALSTON-Ian S. Died on February 22 in Queens, New York after a short illness. Lived most of his life in Belgium, where he worked as a civil engineer. Beloved companion of Marion Wolff, father of Evelyn Ralston, grandfather of Aleris Rodgers, brother of Andrew Ralston and Helene Ganger. Pred
 RIDER-Joseph K. Of New York City, died peacefully at home on Feb. 19, 2003. He leaves behind his daughter Kendra (Andy) and grandson Maxwell. A Funeral Service will be held Saturday, March 1, 2003 at 6PM at St. Clements Episcopal Church, 423 West 46th Street, New York City.       
 TUROFF-Michael, Dr. With deep sadness we mourn the passing of our Executive Director Emeritus, Past President and most honored member of this society, Dr. Michael Turoff. Dr. Turoff was a respected clinician and a true leader for the profession of dentistry. His career of service, which als
 WALSH-David Gibbons, 32. Of West Hartford, CT, died February 21st, 2003 in NYC. David is the beloved son of Barbara Gibbons Walsh of West Hartford and Vincent A. Walsh of NYC, and loving brother of Christopher and Heather both of NYC. He is also survived by his paternal grandfather James Wa
 WEINER-Eugene. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of our longtime colleague Eugene Weiner, first managing director of our Commission on the Jewish People and role model and mentor for a generation of leaders in Jewish community servic
 GOLDSTEIN-Mervyn F. On the first anniversary of his death. We miss your laughter and caring discernment. Roberta, David and Harvey       
 Thomas Joseph Leonard, a former financial planner who founded virtual boot camps for personal and business coaches worldwide, died on Feb. 11 at his home in Phoenix. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack, said David R. Buck, his partner in one of the camps, CoachVille, which is ba
 Arthur Hauspurg, a former chairman of Consolidated Edison Inc., died last Wednesday while attending a family reunion in Barbados. He was 77 and lived in Rye, N.Y. Mr. Hauspurg became known to the New York public in 1966 when he was on the federal commission that investigated the cau
 Fred Russell, a sportswriter and longtime sports editor of The Nashville Banner who also compiled ''Pigskin Preview,'' for years an annual feature in The Saturday Evening Post, died on Jan. 26 in Nashville. He was 96. Mr. Russell, who grew up in Nashville and graduated from Vanderbi
 COHEN-Helen. The Board of Trustees of Temple Israel of the City of New York extends its deepest condolences to our esteemed President, Martin Cohen, on the death of his mother, Helen Cohen.       
 GLASS-Louis. On February 24, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Rose Glass, loving father of his late son and daughter, Richard and Judy, adoring grandfather of Jeff, Johnathon and Sherrie. Loving brother of Bernice and the late Henney, and the late Fay. Dear uncle. Devoted friend of Frank, 
 LEVINE-Bernard S. College professor, mentor and administrator, died at home on February 22, 2003, after a courageous struggle with pancreatic cancer. Adored husband for 53 years of Bunny (Bernice) Utal Levine, most extraordinary and beloved father of Marty, Francie and Joe, cherished father
 MERTON-Robert K. On February 23, 2003. Adored husband of Harriet Zuckerman Merton; loving father of Robert C. & Vanessa Merton, and Stephanie Tombrello; cherished grandfather and great-grandfather; devoted brother of the late Emma Hopkins. Contributions in his memory may be made to Columbia
 OSTROW-Charles, CPA. On Feburary 24, 2003 at the age of 90. Beloved husband for 67 years of the late Lillian, devoted father of David and Felice, Michele and the late Robert, the late Norman, Joan and Joel, adored grandfather of six and great-grandfather of four, loving brother and uncle. H
 PHIPPS-Thomas W. Boys & Girls Harbor, Inc. joins in Thanksgiving for the life of its longtime Trustee, Thomas Phipps. Writer, playwright, soldier, golf champion; loving husband, father, and friend. Heartfelt love and thoughts to Mary, Sally, Lang and Jana. Funeral services at St. John's Epi
 YOUNG-Dr. George. The members of Scarsdale Synagogue - Tremont Temple mourn the death of Dr. George Young, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our condolences to his wife Judith, his children Suzanne, Robert, Lawrence, Cheryl and deceased son Seth, and the entire family. Stephen
 Tom Glazer, a folk singer and songwriter best known for his whimsical children's songs -- particularly one about a mountain of spaghetti -- died on Friday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 88. Along with Leadbelly, Woody Guthrie, Josh White and Burl Ives, Mr. Glazer was a Big City
 Christopher Hill, a leading Marxist historian of 17th-century England who helped illuminate the radical tradition of that revolutionary period, died on Monday. He was 91. His death was announced yesterday by Oxford University, where he was master of Balliol College from 1965 to 1978
 FINN-Edward J., 89, formerly of Horse Shoe, North Carolina and Oradell, New Jersey, died February 21, 2003 at his home at Arbor Terrace in Asheville, North Carolina. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in his memory to The Class of 1934, Columbia University, attn: Gift Systems, MC 772
 INGALLS-Roscoe C. Jr. (Rocky), 1920 - 2003, died peacefully in Antigua, WI, on February 14, 2003. He was a resident of Bronxville, NY. As a graduate of Bowdoin College ('43, BS), Brunswick, ME, he subsequently attended the Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, and was on active duty in the U.S. N
 LIFF-Vincent G. A wonderful friend. Inspiring in life and in death. He will be greatly missed by the many whose lives he touched and who loved him so. Scott Rudin       
 MERTON-Robert K. It is with great sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the death of Robert K. Merton, distinguished sociologist, recipient of the Academy's Talcott Parsons Prize in the Social Sciences, and a Fellow of this society for over a half-century. Professor M
 PRETZFELDER - George. Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, George Pretzfelder, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who lo
 ROSENBLUM-Kenneth N. Died on February 25, 2003 of cancer. Beloved husband of Patricia. Devoted father of Eryn and Seth. Loving son of Sylvia. Cherished brother of Harriet and Marc. Senior Vice-President at J.P. Morgan Chase. He received his Bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester
 ROTH-Samuel, 77. Died peacefully on February 24 after a long illness while away from his home in Cliffside Park, N.J. Loving husband of Phyllis (Shapiro) for more than 54 years. Devoted father of Stephanie Bove of Howell, N.J. and Roni Rosenberg of Cliffside Park, father-in-law of Tony Bove
 Vincent G. Liff, a prolific casting director who assembled the talent for some of Broadway's biggest hits, died on Tuesday at his home at Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was brain cancer, said Scott Rudin, a producer who was a friend and former employee. Working with his bus
 Albert R. Hibbs, a veteran space scientist who helped build the United States' first Earth orbiter then was the popular voice of NASA missions to the planets, died on Monday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 78. The cause was complications after heart surgery, according to the Jet Propulsi
 John Lanchbery, one of the dance world's most successful and sought-after conductors and arrangers of ballet scores, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Melbourne, Australia. He was 79 and lived in Melbourne. The cause was cancer, said Kelly Ryan, a spokeswoman for American Ballet Th
 Fred Rogers, the thoughtful television neighbor whose songs, stories and heart-to-heart talks taught generations of children how to get along in the world, died yesterday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 74. The cause was stomach cancer, said David Newell, a family spokesman who al
 ABRAMS-Dr. Martin W. Age 76, passed away on February 26, 2003. He was the beloved husband of Marie and the cherished father of Danal and his wife Wendy, Seth, David Frankel and his wife Ann, Barbara Frankel, Steven Frankel and his wife Kathy, and Richard Frankel and his wife Mary Jo. He was
 DAVIS-Barry M., 56. Of Manhattan, Southampton and Aventura, FL. Amazing husband of Janet, adoring father of Joanna. You are a part of our hearts and souls; what a gift you have been to us! DAVIS-Barry. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved mem
 GIBBONS-William J. (Bill). Originally from Cold Spring Harbor, NY and Beverly Hills, CA. Passed away at his Palm Springs, CA residence on February 23, 2003. He is survived by his children Laura Burns, Sally Livingston, and Philip Gibbons, and his four grandchildren. He is also survived by h
 KASS-Michael. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Alaine, and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 LANCHBERY-John. American Ballet Theatre mourns the passing of its former music director and colleague, John Lanchbery. A world-renowned conductor and arranger of music for ballets and film, Jack most notably arranged the Minkus score for ABT's La Bayadere in 1980. His career highlights incl
 LIFF-Vincent G. A wonderful friend. Inspiring in life and in death. He will be greatly missed by the many whose lives he touched and who loved him so. Scott Rudin       
 PRETZFELDER - George. Passed away on February 25, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Tillie, loving father of Rosalind. He will be missed by those who knew him. Service Friday 12:30 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 ROGERS-Fred McFeely. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, Staff and Volunteers of Thirteen/WNET New York, we express our deepest sympathies to the family, friends and co-workers of Fred McFeely Rogers. In a world that is so often loud, violent and sensational, Mr. Rogers was a comforting fri
 ROSENBERG - Nathan, 93. Beloved uncle of Mark and Beryl Slater and Eileen Slater. Great-uncle of Audrey Slater Spiegel and Bill Spiegel, Cynthia and Brian Fink, Amanda Slater, Nanci and Gary Farrell, Mathew and Stephanie Slater. He will be greatly missed. For information call Boulevard Rive
