 CONSIDINE-John J., Reverend Monsignor. The Department of Education of the Archdiocese of New York recalls with gratitude and high esteem the steadfast leadership of Monsignor John J. Considine in his role as President of the Association of Catholic Schools. Monsignor Considine brought wisdo
 FALABELLA-Gene. July 29, 2000. I mourn the untimely loss of my adored associate and friend. My deepest condolences to his family. Barbara Braun Carol O'Neil & Assoc.       
 FEERICK-Donald J. He had no sounding that it was the twilight of his years when he turned his steps toward Daytop to walk among a Town's walking-wounded young and to offer his saving hands. A Man of infinite gentleness, Donald Feerick was on a spiritual mission. Oscar Wilde best captured it
 FOGELMAN-Douglas Edmund. Died on July 30th, 2000 at Huntington Hospital, NY after a valiant struggle with cancer. Born in Huntington Hospital on March 21st, 1960. Douglas was the beloved son of Suzanne and Prof. Martin Fogelman, cherished brother of Henry, Jeffrey and Martin, Jr. and sister
 GLUCK-Fanny. On July 31st, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Gerard. Loving mother of Joel Gluck and his companion, Susan Kramer. Dear aunt of Lenore Elias & Doris Nathanson. Services Wednesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 KUNUKAU-Wallace. Our coach, teammate, and friend, Wally enriched the lives of all who knew him. He will always be remembered by the members of Gotham Volleyball. KUNUKAU-Wallace Manaiaokalani. The employees of G+J USA Publishing sadly mourn his passing. Our deepest sympathies to his
 NAUGHTON-Josephine. On July 29, 2000. Cherished wife of James Patrick, adored mother of Delia, Grace, James John and his wife Jeanette, proud ''Nonna'' of Matthew and Brian. Reposing at Conway Funeral Home, Northern Bouleavard at 83 St, Jackson Heights, N.Y.Monday and Tuesday 2 to 5 and 7 t
 ROSEN-Steve. His colleagues and friends on Community Board Six, Manhattan, express their deep sorrow at the passing of its former Chairman and twenty year member, Steve Rosen.       
 SCHWARTZ-Arthur. On July 31, 2000 at the age of 86. Beloved husband of Lucille, loving and devoted father of Steven, Alan, and John. Cherished grandfather of Laura, Jessica, Chad, Michael, Daniel, Jeffrey, and Jacquelyn. Devoted brother of William. Service on Tuesday at 10 A.M. at ''Riversi
 VADAY-Gilad. July 27, 2000. His friends at Bigfoot mourn his loss. His untimely passing has left a void in our hearts that will not soon be refilled. Our sincere condolences go out to his family and to all who knew him. We were all blessed for having him in our lives and will remain so for 
 WEINBERG-Samuel. Of Dobbs Ferry, died on July 30th. Retired publisher for H.B.J. Publishing. Survived by his loving wife Muriel, and devoted children Beth Rose of Boston, MA., and Adam Weinberg of Dobbs Ferry. Service 12 noon today Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave. Dobbs Ferry (e
 Dr. Rene G. Favaloro, a pioneer in heart-bypass surgery and a revered figure in Argentina, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Buenos Aires. He was 77. The police said his death appeared to have been a suicide. Dr. Favaloro, who left a successful career in the United S
 William Maxwell, a small-town boy from Illinois who edited some of the century's literary lions in 40 years at The New Yorker while also writing novels and short stories that secured his own place in American letters, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. John Updike, 
 Bruce J. Ennis, a First Amendment lawyer and former legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, died on Saturday at a hospital in Boston, where he had been taken from his summer home on Martha's Vineyard. He was 60 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications from 
 Max Showalter, a prolific character actor in movies and theater and on television, died on Sunday in Middletown, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Chester, Conn. In his long and varied career, Mr. Showalter acted in two movies with Marilyn Monroe (''Niagara'' and ''Bus Stop''), and also 
 ALEXANDER-Lawrence H. Dearly beloved husband, the light of my life, mourned deeply by Margaret, his wife of 35 years. He was a truly unique man of outer as well as inner beauty; multi-faceted in his interests, a force in the field of education, a true gentleman. He leaves behind for me a vo
 AXELROD-Edward I. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Roslyn Estates, NY, on July 31, 2000. Dearly beloved husband of Carla. Devoted father of Stuart, Neil and Adam. Cherished grandfather of Wendy, Melissa, Amanda and Richard. Adored father-in-law of Barbara and Marilyn. Loving brother of Alice 
 BREEN-Gerard (Jerry). On July 31, 2000, peacefully at home, surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of Bonnie (Grisar) and loving and devoted father to his children Emelia Gabrielle & Dylan Gerard. Loving son of Marie V. Breen and the late Daniel J. Breen. Son-in-law of Ben & Vivian Grisa
 DAVIS-Howland. The Board of Trustees of The New York Institute for Special Education (founded in 1831 as The New York Institute for the Education of the Blind) records with deep regret the death of its beloved and distinguished member. Mr. Davis was a dedicated friend of the Institute and h
 DOUGLAS-Gordon Watkins, M.D. Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at New York University School of Medicine, and Director of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Bellevue Hospital, 1956-1986, founding member of The Bellevue Obstetrical and Gynecological Society. A superb surgeon,
 FOGELMAN-Douglas Edmund. Died on July 30th, 2000 at Huntington Hospital, NY after a valiant struggle with cancer. Born in Huntington Hospital on March 21st, 1960. Douglas was the beloved son of Suzanne and Prof. Martin Fogelman, cherished brother of Henry, Jeffrey and Martin, Jr. and sister
 GREER-James Kelly, 52. Of Hollywood, FL, died June 25, 2000 at home. Born November 9, 1947 in Munich, Germany. A talented piano technician, Jim had a stellar reputation in the music community of Florida and in New York, where he spent many years learning his craft. He loved classical music,
 GROSS-Steven. The Board of Director, Volunteers and Staff of the American Heart Association mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague. Through his fervent commitment, creative spirit and generosity, Mr. Gross and his family have enhanced the fight against heart disease and stroke. We exte
 KRAKAUER-Leonard. Husband of Olga. Beloved father of Gary and Heidi Krakauer and Charline and Michael Fredericksen. Cherished grandfather of Kiera, Mariel and Rachel. Loving brother of Dr. William. Also survived by Olga's son, Peter Benzaia. May his memory be for a blessing. Services Friday
 RUTLEDGE-John W., Sr. A resident of New Canaan for over 30 years. Died Sunday, July 30, 2000 at Norwalk Hospital. He was the husband of Mary Jo McKinley Rutledge. Born on March 12, 1923, in Eureka, California, he was the son of the late William E. & Ellen Jordan Rutledge. He was the former 
 SCHWARTZ-Arthur. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Arthur Schwartz. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Lucille, and their family. Richard Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretar
 Dr. Roger E. Batzel, a nuclear chemist and former director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, died on Saturday at a hospital in San Ramon, Calif. He was 78 and had homes in Danville and Mount Shasta, Calif. He had a major heart attack five days earlier, the laboratory sa
 Alvin R. Tresselt, a children's book author who won praise for describing and explaining nature to the young, died on July 24 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 83. Mr. Tresselt's books had sold over a million copies, the multivolume reference work ''Contemporary Authors'' report
 Grand Rabbi Shlomo Halberstam, a Holocaust survivor whose gentle charisma nurtured the exuberant postwar rebirth of the Bobov Hasidic sect in Brooklyn and around the world, died at Maimonides Medical Center yesterday after a long illness. He was 92. A regal-looking man with a great 
 Jorge Oscar de Mello Flores, a businessman who worked behind the scenes to influence important political events in Brazil, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 88. Mr. Flores was known for getting business interests to support the military coup that deposed President Joao Goular
 COHEN-Jerry B. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the brother of its devoted member, Joyce Weitz. May his entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Rabbi Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 ENNIS-Bruce J. The American Civil Liberties Union mourns the passing of Bruce J. Ennis, former Legal Director of the ACLU and a longtime friend and colleague. Bruce devoted his career to defending the rights of the most vulnerable among us, serving as the NYCLU's first Director of the Menta
 FLEISCHNER-Peter, 91, originally of St. Gallen, Switzerland, died peacefully in his sleep on July 27, 2000. He was the loving spouse of Didi Fleischner. He is survived by his daughters Catherine and Molly, and his brother Robert Fleischner. Memorial service will be held August 5 at 2PM at t
 FOGELMAN-Douglas, M.D. NYU/ Bellevue Department of Psychiatry mourns with deep sadness the untimely loss of our colleague and friend, Douglas Fogelman, M.D. His commitment to knowledge, his work, students and patients will be rememered. Our condolences to his fiancee Laura and his family.  
 KRAKAUER-Leonard. Husband of Olga. Beloved father of Gary and Heidi Krakauer and Charline and Michael Fredericksen. Cherished grandfather of Kiera, Mariel and Rachel. Loving brother of Dr. William. Also survived by Olga's son, Peter Benzaia. May his memory be for a blessing. Services Friday
 MORRIS-Robert (Bob). The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Robert (Bob) Morris, husband of Linda Morris, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President       
 REINES-Norman. Died 11:11PM, July 29, 2000 at home, Princeton, N.J. Age 67. Survivors are his wife, June, children, Francine, Alicia & Paul, grandchildren, Isabelle and Phoebe and late brother Harold and his family. We love you.       
 SMITH-Alex. On August 1, 2000, peacefully at home at the age of 94 years. Husband of Marsha. Father of Judith. Grandfather of Matthew, and younger brother of Eva now 97. Services will be held Thursday, August 3 at 10AM at the Sigmund Schwartz Gramercy Chapels, Second Ave and 10th St.       
 ZORNBERG-Ely Marc. Devoted son of Florence and Edward, Brother of Eric and sister-in-law Debbie, brother of Gwen, Loving Father of Joshua and Alma. He will be missed by the entire family. Services will be held on Friday, Aug 4 at 12:30pm at Plaza Memorial, 91 St at Amsterdam Ave, NYC       
 Patrick T. McGahn Jr., a colorful casino lawyer and South Jersey Democratic Party leader who helped bring gambling to Atlantic City, died Sunday in Somers Point, N.J. He was 72. He had suffered a stroke on Thursday, his family said. Until the 1979 statewide referendum that l
 Don Weis, an award-winning director whose long career embraced both film and television, died on July 26 in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 78. Mr. Weis's screen career began at MGM, where he first found work after serving as an Air Force film technician during World War II. His film credits 
 MECHANIC-Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''and until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand.'       
 ZORNBERG-Ely Marc. Devoted son of Florence and Edward, Brother of Eric and sister-in-law Debbie, brother of Gwen, Loving Father of Joshua and Alma. He will be missed by the entire family. Services will be held on Friday, Aug 4 at 12:30pm at Plaza Memorial, 91 St at Amsterdam Ave, NYC       
 Uri Gordon, an Israeli official and Zionist leader who played important roles in the resettlement of thousands of Ethiopian and Russian Jews in Israel in the 1980's and 90's, died on Sunday in Israel. He was 65. He had suffered for months from a number of illnesses, said Deborah Lip
 William R. Steinberg, a retired union leader who represented ships' radio officers and helped organize a low-cost housing program for retired union members, died Tuesday in Miami Beach, where he lived. He was 87 and formerly had a home in Manhattan. A native New Yorker, he was a rad
 Dr. Richard K. Hill, a child psychiatrist at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died Thursday in New York. He was 64 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was a bone marrow disease, his family said. He was affiliated with the medical center until 1995. That year he also re
 Fred W. Hooper, who became one of the giants of horse racing after he won the Kentucky Derby in 1945 with his first thoroughbred, Hoop Jr., died yesterday in Ocala, Fla. He was 102 years old. In a half-century as an owner and a breeder, Hooper bred or raced the winners of more than 
 ASANUMA-Hiroshi. The Rockefeller University community mourns, with deep sadness, the loss of our distinguished colleague and beloved friend, Hiroshi Asanuma. Dr. Asanuma was a pioneer in the study of how the brain controls muscle movement and the learning of motor skills. A valued member of
 BRAGG-Everett C., M.D. Passed away at his home on August 2, 2000, at the age of 86 years. Everett was the devoted husband for 59 years of Mary Bragg (nee Holt). Loving father of Everett E. (Sherrill) of Lima, Peru, James B. (Deborah) of Darien, CT. and Malley (Thomas) Heinlein of Sawkill, N
 MAFFATONE-Anthony Neil, December 24, 1943-August 2, 2000. The Producer Circle mourns the sudden loss of our friend and colleague Tony, whose wise, honest counsel and uncompromising integrity we shall so profoundly miss. Our deepest condolences to his family. Martin Richards, Sam Crothers, M
 ROEDER-Martin A. On August 3, 2000. Cherished husband of Dorothy (Friedman) for 61 years, adored father of Katherine Roeder, Thomas and Susan Roeder, beloved grandfather of Sarah and Louisa Roeder, Kenneth Hartog and Erik Hartog & Pamela Heller. Son of the late Judge Jehial M. Roeder and th
 SNODGRASS-James F. On August 3, 2000 at age 78. He is survived by his brother, John Snodgrass. A memorial will be held on August 13, 1:00 PM at the artist's studio on Staten Island.       
 Thomas R. Ottenstein, the developer whose observation tower overlooking Gettysburg's historic fields drew tourists and wrath until it was felled by government fiat last month, died Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 70 and also had a home in Delray Beach, Fla. The cause was 
 AMENDE-Kurt F. Of Alexandria, VA; Center Moriches, NY, and St. Thomas, V.I. passed away August 4, at his Center Moriches residence. Mr. Amende retired from the U.S. Army after 26 years, a colonel in the Engineer Corps. He was currently a Marine Engineering Consultant. He is survived by his 
 BELZ-Philip. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing, in Memphis, of a longtime and deeply cherished friend, a distinguished worldwide philanthropist and communal leader, and patriarch of his family and community. He was an honorary YU trustee and honorary alumnus. He and his late 
 BOWMAN-Michael Edward. Died July 27, 2000. Born June 6, 1934, in Waltham, Massachusetts and attended local schools including Our Lady's High School of Newton, MA. He graduated from Princeton University in 1957, where he was a member of the Cottage Club and Captain of the 1956 football team.
 FRANKLIN-Harold. August 4, 1920 to July 25, 2000. 79, of Del Ray Beach, FL., formerly of NYC . Author, playwright, poet, acclaimed book designer. Preceded in death by his loving wife Fran. Survived by daughters, Bethann and Laura. Will be missed by all he touched.       
 FREYDUN-Batsheva Malka. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Batsheva Malka Freydun, beloved sister of Rabbi Yedidya Azrahian, spiritual leader of our sister congregation, Sephardic Society of Manhattan. May he & his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion & Jerusalem. Rabbi Art
 GOMEZ-REINOSO-Teofilo I. August 4, 2000. A native of Cuba, he was both a noted lawyer and judge. A graduate of New York University, where he received his masters degree in philosophy. He is survived by his brother Manuel Gomez-Reinoso. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 HALL-William C. Age 63. Of Beaufort, SC, formerly from Bayport, NY, on July 29, of a brainstem tumor. Loving husband of Carol; dear father of Kerry, Brent and Jocelyn and spouses William Flye, Dr. Theresa Hall and Benjamim Suglia. Adored grandpa of Austin, John, Caitlin, Connor and Gage. Mr
 KATZ-Jerome. Beloved husband of Rosalyn. Devoted father of Harriet Katz and Joel and Mary Katz. Loving brother of Mortimer and Irving Katz, Shirley Cohen and the late Alice Barsky. He graduated from New York Law School in 1938 and was a member of the American Arbitration Association special
 KEENE-Carl E., 76 years. Survived by his wife Una and his brother Kenneth. Funeral services today, 2-5, 7-9 PM, at Conway Funeral Home, Northern Boulevard at 83rd and 82nd Streets, Jackson Heights, NY. Funeral Mass Monday, 10:15 AM, at St. Joan of Arc Church, Jackson Heights. Interment at S
 MAFFATONE-Anthony Neil, December 24, 1943-August 2, 2000. The Producer Circle mourns the sudden loss of our friend and colleague Tony, whose wise, honest counsel and uncompromising integrity we shall so profoundly miss. Our deepest condolences to his family. Martin Richards, Sam Crothers, M
 MILKIN-Howard. NYC filmmaker, editor, television producer. Died in Paris July 18. Born Jan. 16, 1934. Films include Academy awardwinning ''Interview with Five Mylai Veterans,'' Flaherty award-winning ''Sunday,'' and Detroit Institute of Art film on Tony Smith's sculpture. Television work in
 RESNICK-Arthur, MD, 82. Died July 24 at Monmouth Medical Center. He was a specialist in oral rehabilitation. He obtained his BS in Pharmacy from St. John's in 1939; DDS from University of Pennsylvania in 1943; lectured at St. John's College of Pharmacy from 1948 - 1964; Associate Clinical P
 ROEDER-Martin A. On August 3, 2000. Cherished husband of Dorothy (Friedman) for 61 years, adored father of Katherine Roeder, Thomas and Susan Roeder, beloved grandfather of Sarah and Louisa Roeder, Kenneth Hartog and Erik Hartog & Pamela Heller. Son of the late Judge Jehial M. Roeder and th
 ROFFMAN-Edward Axel, 78, of Orefield, PA died Saturday, July 22, 2000 in Lehigh Valley Hospital, Allentown, PA. He was the husband of Brigitte (Milz) Roffman. He was a furniture designer and chairman of the board of directors of Edward Axel Roffman Associates, Inc. New York, for 45 years, r
 STERN-Leo. On July 28th at age 81. Beloved husband of Lydia. Dear cousin of Ida, Kenny, Sharon, Leah and Evan Fried. He will be missed by many friends. Funeral services private.       
 RESSNER-Michael. 8/4/99. The best part of his life, his little, nameless acts of kindness and of love. Natalie, John and Laura Enid, Bud, and Polly Susan, Elliott, Todd & Danny.       
 William Roscoe Mercer, known for decades to New York radio listeners simply as Rosko, died on Tuesday. He was 73 and lived in New York. The cause was cancer, according to his daughter Valerie J. Mercer. Mr. Mercer was the first black news announcer on WINS in New York and, a
 GLADSTONE - Robert ''Bob.'' Longtime broadcaster, on August 3, in California at age 72, of heart failure. He is survived by his devoted wife Barbara, loving daughters Wendi and Dayna, and brother William. There was a private service and cremation. Contributions in his memory may be made to 
 GOMEZ-REINOSO-Teofilo I. August 4, 2000. A native of Cuba, he was both a noted lawyer and judge. A graduate of New York University, where he received his masters degree in philosophy. He is survived by his brother Manuel Gomez-Reinoso. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 GRAD-Bernard John. On August 4, 2000, in Elberon, New Jersey, in his 92nd year. Much beloved husband of the late Marian Newfield Grad, loving and caring father of Peter Grad and Susan Grad Baerwald of Los Angeles, and their spouses, Laurie Burrows Grad and Paul Baerwald. Adoring Pop of Nick
 KING-Robert W. On August 4, 2000, at age 81. Beloved husband of Virginia. Loving father of Cynthia Betts, Sara Gervasio, John E. King, Mary Braley and William W. King. Step-father of Susan DeVoge and Deborah Dunn. Adored grandfather of 12. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 LASKY-Burton. On August 4. Beloved husband of Diana. Beloved father of Andrew. Loving son of Louis. Dear brother of Harvey and Jesse. A great man, who always did what was right. He possesed an amazing body of knowledge and a genuinely noble soul. Service Monday, 10 AM, Plaza Memorial, 91st 
 LIEBERT-Michael. Beloved and devoted son of Rose, passed away August 4, 2000. Michael was President of Carlebach Synagogue and an active participant in the Jewish community. He leaves behind his loving mother, wife Roberta, aunt Muriel Toffel, and a tremendous circle of friends. His mother'
 McGRATH-Edward J. Died at home in Marlborough, NH; born and raised in Bronxville, NY. He worked for A.N. Nelson, Inc., for his 35 year career. In retirement, Ed and his wife Myrtle owned and operated Hardscrabble Antiques, the name of their company reminiscent of their home street in Chappa
 RIBNER-Herbert, M.D. Rabbi, Neurologist, Author. Died July 16 in Jerusalem. Survived by wife Betty; children Dr. Hillel (Elizabeth), Eytan (Irene) and Dr. Dena (Mark); grandchildren Lisa, Danielle, David, Avigayil, Yehudit, Nathaniel, Maya, Boaz & Aderet. Healer of souls and of illness, who
 ROEDER-Martin A. On August 3, 2000. Cherished husband of Dorothy (Friedman) for 61 years, adored father of Katherine Roeder, Thomas and Susan Roeder, beloved grandfather of Sarah and Louisa Roeder, Kenneth Hartog and Erik Hartog & Pamela Heller. Son of the late Judge Jehial M. Roeder and th
 SWILER-William Ray. A resident of Rolling Green Village, Greenville, SC, died at age 87 on August 3, 2000. Born in Harrisburg, PA, he was the son of William and Ellen Swiler. A 1934 graduate of Lafayette College, Easton, PA, with a degree in mining engineering, he received a Master's Degree
 Sir Alec Guinness, the elegant and versatile British actor known to older audiences for films like ''The Bridge on the River Kwai'' and to a whole new generation for his role as Obi-Wan Kenobi in ''Star Wars,'' died late Saturday at a hospital in West Sussex, England. He was 86. Pos
 John Hohenberg, who began his journalism career as a teenager by snatching an interview with the president of the United States and went on to become administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes, died Sunday morning at his home in Knoxville, Tenn. He was 94. Mr. Hohenberg also taught journa
 ALEXANDER-David. Of Jerusalem, Israel, formerly of Brooklyn, New York, died on August 7th in Jerusalem. Beloved husband of Florence for 60 years. Loving father of Arthur, Kenny and Robyn. Cherished brother, grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be sorely missed.       
 BANKS-Benjamin M., M.D. Dr. Benjamin M. Banks died on August 6, 2000, at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston after a long illness. He was 93. He was predeceased by his wife Alice, to whom he was married for sixtynine years. He is survived by his children, Dr. Peter and Naomi Banks, a
 BELZ-Philip. The entire Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of Reb Shrage Feivel Belz, our esteemed Board Member and loyal friend of over three decades. He and his late wife, Sarah, were Chai Founders whose generous support enabled Boys Town to fulfill its mission of turning young boys f
 BURNHILL - Michael, MD. Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA) staff and volunteers deeply mourn the loss of Michael Burnhill, MD, a lifelong champion of reproductive rights and women's health in this country and internationally. An obstetrician/gynecologist and pioneer in contrace
 CATES-John Robinson, MD of 3 Pomander Walk died on the night of August 5th. John was a Psychiatrist, an actor, a painter, a loving friend and a devoted father. John is survived by Andrew John, Edward David, MD, and Alicia Jennifer. He died of complications following heart surgery. John was 
 COLE-William (Rossa). Died at home in Manhattan on August 2, of heart disease. Age 80. He spent his life among books which he loved, as editor, writer, poet, critic and publicist. He served in the U.S. Army in W.W.II. He was wounded in action overseas and worked on army publications. Bill w
 GOLDBERG-Dave. Died August 6 at his home in Tamarac, FL. He was 87 years old. He was a pioneer in the swimwear industry in the 1950s, and the company bearing his name is still one of the leading swimwear firms in the country. The many licenses the company had over the years included Coca Co
 GRAD-Bernard. The Board of Trustees of Monmouth Health Care Foundation expresses its sadness at the passing of our very special benefactor of Monmouth Medical Center and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. Judi Dawkins, Chairman Bridget Murphy, Director       
 GRISWOLD-Merton L., Jr., M.D., ninety-five, of Plainfield, NJ, died on Sunday, August 6, 2000 at his home. Born in Uxbridge, Massachusetts, September 25, 1904. Received his BA from Amherst College in Massachusetts in 1925, his M.D. from Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1929. C
 HACKEN-Emanuel. On August 6, 2000. A graduate of Prague University, he was a pediatrician in Europe and then became a psychiatrist after coming to the U.S., a Fellow of the APA and former Deputy Director of Rockland State Hospital; published composer and multilingual writer. Beloved husband
 HARTMANN-Larry T. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Larry, father of Rick Hartmann, Atlantic's Golf Professional. We extend our heartfelt sympathy toLarry's wife Dorothy, his son Rick and wife Claudette, his son Jack and wife Lisa, and Larry's grandchildren, Loren and Graham. Rob
 JILER-Milton W. On August 7, 2000, at age 92. Beloved husband of Dorothy, loving father of John Jiler and father-in-law of Elizabeth Hovey. Grandfather of Jacob and Stella. Dear brother of William, Lillian, Helen and Peggy. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St,
 KALISH-Marc. On August 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Melissa. Loving father of Dani Jose Falkoff, Alexander, Zachary and Chloe Kalish. Cherished grandfather to Max and Carly. He will live in our hearts forever. Services Wednesday, 2:00 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. 
 KING-Robert W. On August 4, 2000, at age 81. Beloved husband of Virginia. Loving father of Cynthia Betts, Sara Gervasio, John E. King, Mary Braley and William W. King. Step-father of Susan DeVoge and Deborah Dunn. Adored grandfather of 12. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 LASKY-Burton. On August 4. Beloved husband of Diana. Beloved father of Andrew. Loving son of Louis. Dear brother of Harvey and Jesse. A great man, who always did what was right. He possesed an amazing body of knowledge and a genuinely noble soul. LASKY-Burton. The Officers, Trustees
 LEVINE-Hyman. Of Riverdale, NY, on August 7. The beloved husband of the late Schura. Devoted father of Paul (and Ethel); loving grandfather of Alec (Meegan) and Mark. Services will be held at ''Wien & Wien'', 129 Engle St., Englewood, NJ on Wednesday, August 9 at 1:00 PM. Should friends des
 MARRA-Frank The officers, sales associates and employees of The William B. May Company offer our deepest sympathy to our president and friend Peter R.Marra on the loss of his father. We also extend our heartfelt condolences to Peter's mother, Eleanor, and his entire family. May you find com
 MOUNTY-Robert. On August 6, 2000. Father of Dr. Judith L. Mounty (Robert B.) Weinstock, Ann Mounty (Steven Simon), Ian Mounty and Jennifer Mounty. Brother of Seymour Mounty, Bernard Mounty and Shirley Mounty. Grandfather of Matthew, Luda & Hannah Jo, also by two nephews and two great nieces
 PINCUS - Julie. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted, long-time member, Julie Pincus. Julie and his beloved wife Anne, have been members of Rodeph Sholom for over 40 years. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife, his children, Edward and Jane, Martin and Pat, and
 ROEDER-Martin A. On August 3, 2000. Cherished husband of Dorothy (Friedman) for 61 years, adored father of Katherine Roeder, Thomas and Susan Roeder, beloved grandfather of Sarah and Louisa Roeder, Kenneth Hartog and Erik Hartog & Pamela Heller. Son of the late Judge Jehial M. Roeder and th
 SARRAF-Moussa. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 TARTELL-Adam Ethan. Age 44. Pediatric dentist, died suddenly of a heart attack on August 1,2000. Dr. Tartell graudated from West Hempstead High School, Cobleskill College, Hofstra University, NYU College of Dentistry and in 1985 the Eastman Dental School, University of Rochester. He practic
 William Rossa Cole, an anthologist, editor and writer of children's books and light verse, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Cole was the author, co-author, editor or co-editor of more than 75 books, including more than 50 anthologies for children and adults
 Dr. Michael Seth Burnhill, a leader in women's health care, family planning and reproductive health, died Friday in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 72 and lived in Belle Mead, N.J. He was attending to patients in his Belle Mead office earlier that day when he suffered an aortic dissectio
 Gibson McCabe, a former publisher and president of Newsweek who defended the editorial independence of the magazine from irate advertisers during the Vietnam War, died Saturday at Baptist Medical Center in Jacksonville Beach, Fla., from complications after a fall. He was 89. ''There
 Michael Meyer, whose translations of the plays of Ibsen and Strindberg are performed throughout the English-speaking world and who wrote monumental biographies of both Scandinavian playwrights, died on Thursday. He was 79 and lived in London. Mr. Meyer was himself a playwright and t
 DETTWYLER-Ethan Reid. August 2, 2000. Died at birth. ''He went to live with beautiful God, whose heart is broken, too.'' He is survived by his parents, Rick and Hillary, and by his big brother, Spenser. Services will be held 12 Noon today at Ivandell Cemetery, Route 100 North, Somers, N.Y. 
 GOLDBERG-Dave. Died August 6 at his home in Tamarac, FL. He was 87 years old. He was a pioneer in the swimwear industry in the 1950s, and the company bearing his name is still one of the leading swimwear firms in the country. The many licenses the company had over the years included Coca Co
 JILER-Milton W. On August 7, 2000, at age 92. Beloved husband of Dorothy, loving father of John Jiler and father-in-law of Elizabeth Hovey. Grandfather of Jacob and Stella. Dear brother of William, Lillian, Helen and Peggy. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St,
 KALLENBACH-Joseph R. On August 6th, 2000. Survived by one sister, Phyllis Clark of Charlotte, N.C., thirteen nieces and nephews, two very close friends, Stephen King and Paula LiBasci, and his wonderful poodle Gigi.       
 LEVINE-Harold. Mr. Levine was born in New York City, N.Y. to Jacob Levine and Dora Weinstein Levine. He was a member of Boynton Beach Kiwanis Club and a veteran of the United States Army having served during World War II. He had worked in sales with Acker & Jablow Textile, Inc. of New York.
 MARRA-Frank The officers, sales associates and employees of The William B. May Company offer our deepest sympathy to our president and friend Peter R.Marra on the loss of his father. We also extend our heartfelt condolences to Peter's mother, Eleanor, and his entire family. May you find com
 MARVIN-John T. Of Manhattan, died suddenly Tuesday morning at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He was 70. Born and raised in New Haven, John Marvin graduated with the highest honors from Taft School and Yale University, Class of 1950. He earned a Master's Degree at Stanford University and se
 SPIVACK-Gordon B., 71, of New Haven, CT, world-renowned antitrust attorney, died on Sunday, August 6, 2000. Mr. Spivack was born in New Haven on June 15, 1929, son of Jacob and Sophie Spivack. From 1986 until the time of his death, Mr. Spivack was a Senior Partner at Coudert Brothers, an in
 Sir Robin Day, a BBC broadcaster widely known as the ''grand inquisitor'' for a relentless and searching interviewing technique that revolutionized British television news, died on Sunday night. He was 76. He died in a London hospital where he was being treated for heart problems.  
 Eugene R. Black, an investment banker, government adviser and off-Broadway playwright, died on April 24 in Manhattan. He was 75. A message about his death was misdirected within The Times on April 26. Mr. Black, who in recent years lived in East Hampton, N.Y., and Palm Beach
 Gordon B. Spivack, a prominent antitrust lawyer and former senior Justice Department official, died at his home in New Haven on Sunday. He was 71. The cause was colon cancer, said Stephen M. Hudspeth, head of the litigation department at Coudert Brothers, the New York City law firm 
 Jerome Smith, the original guitarist for the disco party kings K. C. and the Sunshine Band, died on Friday after a construction accident, The Associated Press reported. He was 47 and lived in Miami. His body was crushed in the accident, which took place at the construction site wher
 BAUM-Jess, 74. Of Lake Worth, Florida, passed away August 7, 2000. Born in Brooklyn, NY, Mr. Baum graduated from New York University ''Summa Cum Laude''. He had served in the United States Armed Forces as Master Sargeant, serving his country in WWII. He had later worked in sales in the fash
 FORBES-William Innes, Jr. On August 8, 2000, of Radnor, PA. He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Catharine Patterson Forbes, four children, C. Hansell F. Ward of Boynton Beach, FL, Dr. William I. Forbes III of Watertown, NY, Frances Patterson Forbes of Boothwyn, PA, Daisy C.F. Wanamaker 
 GOLDSTEIN-Dr. Gabriel F. Dearly beloved husband of Bobbye S. Goldstein and wonderful father and father-in-law of Frederic S. Goldstein and Phyllis Lefton Goldstein. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey and Emily. Devoted son and son-in-law of the late Rabbi Herbert S. Goldstein and Rebecca Fisc
 GRUBER-Maurice, 87. Of Oakhurst, NJ died Tuesday, August 8 at Monmouth Medical Center. He was born and raised in Long Branch, NJ and until recently, maintained homes in New York City and Oakhurst. He was married to Marian Ansbacher for 43 years before her death in 1993. Mr. Gruber served as
 HOLDERNESS-Benjamin Stilwell. Died August 8, 2000. Mr. Holderness was born at West Point, NY on September 5, 1915. He was a graduate of the Salisbury School, Salisbury, CT and received a BS from Yale University in 1939. During WWII he served as a pilot in the US Army Air Corps, ''Fireball A
 KENT-Gelal (Gerry), 83. On August 8, 2000, at home in Manhattan of complications of Parkinson's Disease. Most beloved husband of Helga. Born in Istanbul, Turkey, he was graduated from the Academy of Fine Arts in Istanbul. He immigrated to the U.S. and served in the U.S. Army during the Seco
 KOPPELMAN-Irving. In loving memory of Irving Koppelman. Father of Rosalind and Charles. Grandfather of Larry, Suzanne, Karyn, Brian, Stacy and Jennifer. Great - grandfather seventeen times. Honest and strong with a potent sense of humor, he was a man who chose his words carefully but he was
 LIEBERT-Michael. A man who had no acquaintances, only friends. A true inspiration, Michael will be remembered for his dignity, courage, wisdom and smile. His capacity to love knew no boundaries. Our heartfelt sympathies to Roberta, Rosie and all others who are feeling his loss so profoundly
 MARVIN-John T. Of Manhattan, died suddenly Tuesday morning at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He was 70. Born and raised in New Haven, John Marvin graduated with the highest honors from Taft School and Yale University, Class of 1950. He earned a Master's Degree at Stanford University and se
 PRENOWITZ-Walter. On August 7, 2000 at age 93. Mathematics Professor Emeritus of Brooklyn College. Beloved husband of Marie and the late Sophie. Father of Edward and his wife, Gina. Grandfather of Amy and Eric. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Friday, 1:30 PM.    
 REVASCH-Aliza. Congregation Orach Chaim extends heartfelt condolences to our dedicated member and former Trustee, David Revasch, on the loss of his mother in Israel. May he and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi Wolf Schec
 SACHDEV-Ved, MD. An internationally renowned professor and practitioner of neurosurgery and neuroanatomy passed away peacefully on August 8, 2000 at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City where he worked and taught for thirty years. Dr. Sachdev dedicated his life to the healing of others with 
 SAMIY-Abdol Hossein, M.D. On August 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Shahla. Loving father of Ahmad Ali and Golnaz Samiy. He is also survived by the Samiy and Khosrowshahi families. Service on Saturday, August 12, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. In lieu of flowers, the
 SAPORTA-Sam. Peacefully on August 8, 2000. Beloved husband of Harriet. Loving father of Rita and Richard Singer, Adrienne and Jeffrey Saporta, Janet and Bruce Adler. Devoted brother of Julia, Jack, Jean, Barbara and the late Herman. Adored grandfather. We will all truly miss this accomplish
 SMITH-J. Morse. The Partners and Staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of J. Morse Smith, a close friend for some 30 years. He will be missed by all who knew him and especially by those of us who had the great pleasure of working with him. We extend our sympathies to Morse's wife, Mari
 Dr. Thomas H. Wolff, a professor of mathematics at the California Institute of Technology who proved several important theorems in the study of mathematical functions and was regarded as a top expert in his field, died on July 31 in an automobile accident near Bakersfield, Calif. He was 46.
 Fuad Serag Eddin, a mainstay of Egyptian politics who fought British colonial rule before the 1952 revolution and headed the largest opposition party, the Wafd, against successive Egyptian governments, died on Wednesday after having a heart attack in a hospital here. He was 89. For 
 Jaap Marais, a fiery orator and right-wing political leader whose 30-year-battle to uphold strict government-enforced racial segregation continued even after apartheid had ended, died on Tuesday night. He was 77. The cause of death was unknown, said Louis van der Schyff, general sec
 BERG-Leonard, 73. Loving father of Mitchell & Nancy. Grandfather to Elizabeth, William and Laura. Lifelong cherished twin brother of Fred. Dearest daddy, brother, grandpa and friend. We pray that you are now at peace. We love & miss you and will always carry you in our hearts and memory. Co
 HOHENBERG-John. August 6, 2000. The Pulitzer Prize Board extends its profound sympathy to the family of John Hohenberg, distinguished journalist, author, and administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes from 1954 to 1976. With wisdom, skill and unstinting energy, he devoted himself to maintaining t
 KROSNEY-Neil. The Board of Governors and Members of the Elberon Baiting Club mourn the untimely passing of our longtime member and dear friend, Neil Krosney. He served with distinction as our Past President and Chairman of our Board of Governors for many years. As someone who truly enjoyed 
 LEVINE-Harold. The officers and staff of Acker & Jablow Textiles express their deep sorrow at the passing of our longtime friend, Harold Levine. He was an astute, devoted and loyal associate of the company and was a very integral part of our growth. Harold was a gentleman in the truest sens
 ROSS-Lawrence A. Loving husband of Elizabeth. Father of Polly and Gregg Ribatt. Grandfather of Emily Ribatt. Brother of Ruth and Robert Layton. Uncle of Charles and Ursula Layton, Elizabeth and Benjamin Shepherd, Alice and Peter Layton, David and Helen Dwyer and Douglas Dwyer. Passed away o
 SAMIY-Abdol Hossein, M.D. On August 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Shahla. Loving father of Ahmad Ali and Golnaz Samiy. He is also survived by the Samiy and Khosrowshahi families. Service on Saturday, August 12, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. In lieu of flowers, the
 SMITH-J. Morse. Of New Canaan, Connecticut, 71, died at his home on Tuesday night. He was the Chairman and CEO of the family company, H.J. Baker & Bro., Inc. of Stamford which is currently celebrating its 150th year. He was the son of the late Henry V.B. Smith and the late Nancy Calder Smit
 THOMASES-Fred. Died Thursday August 10,2000 at the age of 92. Loving husband of Florence Josephson Thomases through 66 years of marriage. Adored father of Robert, Matthew, Jeffrey & Susan. Devoted grandfather of Holly, Andrew, Ken, Caroline, Josh, Ben, David, Danny, Greg, Lili, Phoebe, Shan
 NEMEROFF-Kenneth M. August 11, 1945 - May 31, 1990. Kenny would have been 55 years old today. A man of warmth, intelligence and honor. He alway said, ''his word was his bond.'' He was a mensch. He was also the love of my life and my best friend. Happy birthday. Love, Eileen       
 Thomas Aquinas Foran, a Chicago trial lawyer best known as the pugnacious prosecutor in the Chicago Seven conspiracy case of 1969 and 1970, died on Sunday at his home in suburban Lake Forest, Ill. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Foran was a senior partn
 John C. Harsanyi, who won the 1994 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for his work on game theory, died on Wednesday in Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Harsanyi, 80, was a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley, for 25 years until 1990. He ha
 BERGER-Steven A., 54. Of Aberdeen, NJ, on August 9, 2000. Survived by his wife, Barbara; sons Bill and daughter-in-law, Debbi and Ken; parents, Joanne and Al Berger; sister, Karen Warren and brother-in-law, Lon; brother, Rick and wife, Kathy; and many other relatives. Funeral services noon 
 BRODSKY-Edward, 70. Beloved husband of Cynthia. Cherished father of Peter and Leslie, William and Karen and James. Darling grandfather of Noah and Skye. Brother of Phillip and Harriet Brodsky. Funeral service will be held on Sunday, August 13 at 1:15PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterda
 GRUBER-Maurice. The Board of Trustees and members of the Ocean Beach Club note with sadness the death of longtime member and friend, Maurice Gruber. He was a strong supporter of local charities and will be missed. We send our sincere condolences to his family. Sandy Paskin, President Laurie
 KELLER-Daniel Schubb. 53. Died of lung cancer August 10,2000 in NYC. He was born in Los Angeles but spent the past 20 years in NY working as a psychologist specializing in substance abuse research. He is survived by his beloved wife, Rebekah, daughter Anya, mother Shirley, sister Beth Jense
 KRIEGEL-Kenneth. August 11, 2000. Loving husband for 42 years of Peggy. Beloved father of Emily, father-in-law of Kenneth Dearden, grandfather of five-month-old Grace. Devoted brother of the late Allan Kriegel and brother-in-law of Phyllis Kriegel. Loving uncle of David and Nancy Kriegel. G
 MARSH-Charles Odell. On August 9, 2000. Beloved son of Margaret Hamilton Patrowich and the late Charles Odell Marsh. Loving brother of Dr. Anna Catherine Gilliam-Ballard. Survived by many loving relatives in South Carolina. Cherished companion of Gayle Rhoda Kurtz. Visitation Saturday, 4-6P
 THOMASES-Fred. Textile industry executive, on August 10, 2000. Loving husband of Florence Josephson Thomases, through 66 years of marriage. Services were held yesterday, August 11, 2000. Contributions in his memory may be made to the following charities: The Solomon Schechter School, 275 Mc
 TUCKER-Herman. Beloved father of Dr. Toby (Dr. Barry) Hecht, Rabbi Gordon (Dr. Amy Cohn) Tucker, loving brother of Sylvia Rosencranz, cherished grandfather of Ethan (Ariela Migdal) Tucker, Spencer and Jonathan Hecht, Becky and Micah Tucker. Services Sunday 12 noon, Temple Israel of White Pl
 WEISSLER-Ben, 92, originally from Ft. Lee, N.J, died Thursday evening, August 9, in Boca Raton, FL, where he resided. He is survived by his wife Natalie, son Barry, and stepchildren Carol Bleeker and Dr. Harvey Rosen. He was grandfather to Alex Bleeker, Steven Weller and Cindy Rosenberg. He
 Walter Chappell, whose finely detailed, impeccably printed photographs of landscapes, natural forms and the human body were known for their mystical intensity, died on Tuesday in Santa Fe. He was 75 and lived in El Rito in northern New Mexico. The cause was complications from lung c
 Walter Andrew Maggiolo, a top trouble-shooter for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service in the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 92 and lived in Arlington. His career as a labor-management negotiator started in 1933 when, as a freshly minted lawyer in
 There was a time when the shady patches of America's gardens were virtually a horticultural no-man's land: drab expanses where gardeners planted the laconically blooming hosta and hoped for the best, or just threw up their hands and put in ferns or coleus. There was a time, in other
 Don Ettlinger, a writer for film, television and theater, died on Monday at a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 86 and lived in Pomona, N.Y. Mr. Ettlinger was born in Detroit and attended Stanford University and the University of Chicago. While still an undergraduate, he was hired by 2
 G. Warren Schloat Jr., a writer and illustrator of children's books who also worked on several of the classic films from the Walt Disney Studios, died on July 30 at a hospital in Escondido, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. Mr. Schloat wrote and illustrated 22 ch
 APPEL-William. Of NYC, NY. 95. Died July 14, 2000. Respected, loved uncle, husband and friend; Accountant and insurance broker. Survived by nieces and nephews. He will be greatly missed. Donations to American Cancer Society.       
 BRODSKY-Edward, 70. Beloved husband of Cynthia. Cherished father of Peter and Leslie, William and Karen and James. Darling grandfather of Noah and Skye. Brother of Phillip and Harriet Brodsky. Funeral service will be held on Sunday, August 13 at 1:15PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterda
 DALTON-Philip B., 77 of Sarasota, Florida. Retired President of GAF. Husband of the late Elaine K. Dalton, died August 1, 2000. He was born July 21, 1923 in New York City. During World War II he served overseas in the U. S. Navy in 1944, he graduated University of Illinois and in 1947 recei
 DeSILVER-George Burnham. Of Naples, Florida, formerly of New York City and Northwest, CT died August 6th, 2000 after a short, but valiant, struggle with cancer. He was a quiet, good and loving man, whose dedication to civil liberties, equality, and human rights followed the commitment of hi
 DRINKHOUSE-Donald. Of North Palm Beach, formerly of New York City, died August 6, 2000. He is survived by his wife Christine.       
 ETTLINGER-Don. Our hearts go out to Katrina, Karen, Annabelle, Torey, Nick, Mark and his family. Don was a ''oner'' as the crossword puzzles would say. We miss his being dreadfully. His brilliant wit, love of life, tenderness, empathy enriched us all. Joan Simon Crowell and Family       
 GRAY-Leon. On August 6, 2000. A most generous man. He will be greatly missed by Edith and Anne Marie, by sons, Anthony and Michael, by grandchildren, Cameron and Stephanie and by the many others who knew and loved him.       
 JACKSON-William Ward. On August 3, 2000, at his longtime residence in Short Hills, NJ. He is survived by his devoted wife Suzanne (Zani) Zipse Jackson, his loving daughter Hollace Jackson Tullman and his son-in-law Jeffrey S. Tullman, and his two cherished grandchildren, Matthew Tullman and
 KROSNEY-Neil. The Board of Governors and Members of the Elberon Baiting Club mourn the untimely passing of our longtime member and dear friend, Neil Krosney. He served with distinction as our Past President and Chairman of our Board of Governors for many years. As someone who truly enjoyed 
 MAGER-Joseph A. Of Fair Lawn, NJ, died on August 10, 2000. A World War II Army Veteran. Original owner of Continental Cookies. Survived by his wife Naomi, his daughter Lesley Rona and his son Harold Wayne. Services are today 10:30 AM, Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt. #       
 MAHONEY-David J., III. 40, of Royal Palm Beach, Florida, passed away suddenly on August 10, 2000, at his home. David, originally of New York City and Bridgehampton, NY, was an area resident since 1992. He was the owner and CEO of Flips, Inc., a local internet service providing company. He l
 SACHDEV-Ved, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hosptial mourns the passing of our long-standing and beloved colleague. Dr. Sachdev began his prominent career in neurosurgery and neuroanatomy at Mount Sinai in 1970. He dedicated himself to the teaching and practi
 SINCLAIRE-Harry Addison. 78, of Washington, DC, and recently of Such Delights Farms in Middleburg, VA, died after a long illness August 5. Mr. Sinclaire was born in Rutherford, NJ, July 9, 1922. He was a graduate of George School '39; Amherst College '43 and Cornell University Medical Colle
 SURDOVAL-Donald J. Age 67, of Saddle River, NJ, on Thursday, August 10, 2000. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Fitzpatrick). Devoted father of Lisa A. of Saddle River, NJ; Catherine A. of Nanuet, NY; Donald J. of Sparta, NJ; John G. of Sydney, Australia; and Brian G. of Hoboken, NJ. Loving 
 THOMASES-Fred. Temple Emanu-el of Englewood, New Jersey extends its deepest sympathy to Mrs. Florence Thomases and her children and grandchildren on the death, at the age of 92, of the head of the family, Fred Thomases. He was a central figure in our congregation and in the Jewish and civic
 TUCKER-Herman. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the death of Herman Tucker, father of our dear friend and colleague, Rabbi Gordon Tucker. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Rabbi Tucker and his wife, Amy Cohn, his si
 Harold Pierson, a dancer, actor and educator, died on Aug. 1 in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said  Joan Myers Brown, the founder and artistic director of the Philadelphia Dance Company. Mr. Pierson was the former artistic directo
 BLOSVERN-Monroe. Almost 90 years old. Died August 12, 2000. Beloved and loving husband, father and grandfather. A passionate fisherman and a devoted friend. His family and friends will miss him deeply. Services Thursday, Augsust 17, at Zion Memorial Chapel in Mamaroneck.       
 COSTELLO-Robert B. On August 5, 2000, in Boston, Massachusetts. A renowned and admired editor, writer, and lexicographer, known for his brilliance, wit, and sensitive soul, Bob touched many and will be deeply missed and remembered by all, especially his loving daughter Kate C. Boyle, his de
 CURTIS-Thomas E. Real estate developer, banker, and founder of the Curtis Supermarket chain, died Friday of a stroke. Born in Boston, Mr. Curtis developed more than two million square feet of commercial space in Southeastern Massachusetts. He was a community leader and contributed greatly t
 LERNER-Mike. Lerner Group, Inc, conveys heartfelt condolences to Selma, Sharon, Jack, Laurie, and their families on Mike's passing. He was a dear friend and inspiration to us and will be missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. We'll always remember him. Anita Grossberg, President    
 NAPPO-Philip G. III. 41, of Manhattan and Patterson, NY, passed away on August 12, 2000. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Hubbell Nappo. Loving son of Philip G. Nappo and the late Elsie Nappo. Cherished brother of Nancy Euchner, and dear uncle to Gregory, Richard and Marshall Euchner, and Linds
 PRINTZ-Harvey. We say farewell to our friend of over 35 years who was taken from us much too soon. To his wife Rochelle, and to Cary and Wayne, we extend our sincerest condolences on your loss. May his memory be a blessing. Harvey Bayard & Paul K. Hickey and Their Families       
 WIRTH-Morris A. Surrounded by his wife Jean, sons Bob, Billy, and John, passed away peacefully on the morning of Saturday, August 12, after a brave battle with cancer. He was 76. In addition he is survived by his daughters-in-law, Kelly and Lisa, as well as Vasilia Hughes, and his most cher
 Michael S. Reynolds, the author of a five-volume biography of Ernest Hemingway, died on Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 63. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter Dierdre Shipman. Ernest Hemingway's life as a novelist, war correspondent and adventur
 BERNARD-Burton. Loyal husband of 58 years to his devoted wife Norma. Beloved father of Harold, Cathy and Mitchell. Loving grandfather of Nicole, Molly, Alex, Bradley, Jake, Amanda and Hannah. He was a wonderful man. Loved by all who had the good fortune to know him. We will miss him forever
 BOOKEY-Theodore. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 BRODSKY-Edward. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member Edward Brodsky. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to his family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Alisa Doctoroff, President       
 CURTIS-Thomas E. Real estate developer, banker, and founder of the Curtis Supermarket chain, died Friday of a stroke. Born in Boston, Mr. Curtis developed more than two million square feet of commercial space in Southeastern Massachusetts. He was a community leader and contributed greatly t
 DWYER-Albert Hayden. Of Demarest, NJ, former general counsel and vice president of the Children's Television Workshop and a CBS attorney for nearly two decades, died on August 8, 2000 at the age of 79. He was the beloved husband of Laura Campbell Dwyer, father of Albert H. Dwyer, Jr. of Hou
 GINNEL-Frank Brown, 87. Of Bedford Hills. Died peacefully at home on August 12 after a brief illness. Husband of the late Helen W. Ginnel. Father of Nancy G. Duncan, Helen G. O'Reilly and Daniel H. Ginnel. Also survived by eight grandchildren. Attended Columbia University. He served in the 
 GOLDBERG-Leah. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Leo Goldberg upon the loss of his mother, Mrs. Leah Goldberg. We express profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi To
 KRODMAN-Gerald. Beloved husband of Zelda, loving father of Debra and Stephanie, and father-inlaw of Daniel. Adored grandfather of Michael, Nica and AJ. Wonderful brother to Eli and his wife Toni. Loving brother-in-law to Lolly and Stuie and adoring uncle to Wendy and David. Dear uncle to Da
 MILLER-Wallace H. On August 12, 2000, loving husband of Patricia Ann Miller, beloved father of Sharon G. Miller and Robert J. Miller, cherished grandfather of Isaac Stryker and Elliot Stryker, loving brother of Phoebe Rothkopf. Contributions in his memory may be made to The ALS Association,
 NAPPO-Philip G. III. 41, of Manhattan and Patterson, NY, passed away on August 12, 2000. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Hubbell Nappo. Loving son of Philip G. Nappo and the late Elsie Nappo. Cherished brother of Nancy Euchner, and dear uncle to Gregory, Richard and Marshall Euchner, and Linds
 NELSON-Erik Scot. August 7, 1970-August 12, 2000. Son of Jenyne and Gary Nelson and brother of Erin Nelson. Graduate, Eden Prairie High School (1989 Governor's Scholar), Columbia University (B.A. History 1993 Cum Laude, Benito Gaguine Scholarship for Academic Achievement) and the University
 STYNES-Christopher Peter. Of Little Neck, died peacefully in his sleep at home on Sunday, August 13, at the age of 46. Loving husband of Diane, father of Ian and Danielle Stynes, son of Brendan and the late Rosalie Stynes, brother of Jim and Frank. Visitation will be Wednesday, 3-5 and 7-9 
 SWEET - Emanuel (''Manny''). The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member Manny Sweet. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife, June Sweet, and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors 
 TUCKER-Herman. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with deep sorrow the death of Herman Tucker, beloved father of our distinguished board member Rabbi Gordon Tucker of Temple Israel Center, White Plains. Throughout his life, Mr. Tucker was dedicated to his fa
 WATERMAN-William B., Dr. Age 82, of Southern Pines, North Carolina, formerly of New York City and West Hartford, Connecticut died Saturday at his home due to complications from leukemia. His family mourns the loss of a beloved husband and caring father. Dr. Waterman is survived by his wife,
 WIRTH-Morris A. Surrounded by his wife Jean, sons Bob, Billy, and John, passed away peacefully on the morning of Saturday, August 12, after a brave battle with cancer. He was 76. In addition he is survived by his daughters-in-law, Kelly and Lisa, as well as Vasilia Hughes, and his most cher
 BERNSTEIN-Paul M. 1929-1990. With much love and enduring respect, we remember our founding partner, Paul M. Bernstein on the 10th anniversary of his untimely passing. Paul's dedication to the practice of law at the highest professional level inspired so many people. His spirit lives on in t
 Dr. Charles Brooke Flint Gibbs, a Rochester internist who was the last survivor of the founders of the American Diabetes Association 60 years ago, died on Aug. 4 in Rochester. He was 105. Dr. Gibbs was one of 32 founders of the association in 1940. Since then, it has grown to 280,00
 Edward Brodsky, a nationally prominent courtroom lawyer who specialized in securities cases and criminal law cases, died on Friday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y. He had chronic lymphocytic leukemia, a family spokesman said. At h
 Edward S. Skillin, a former editor and publisher of Commonweal, a lay magazine of Roman Catholic opinion, died on Monday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 96 and lived in Montclair, N.J. Mr. Skillin spent more than six decades at Commonweal, a liberal journal based
 BERNARD-Burton. Consummate husband of 58 years to his devoted wife, Norma. Beloved father of Harold, Cathy and Mitchell. Loving father-in-law of Bonnie and Adrienne. Cherished grandfather of Nicole, Molly, Alex, Bradley, Jake, Amanda and Hannah. He was a unique and wonderful man, loved by a
 COHEN-Bernard. In his 89th year, August 14, 2000. Beloved husband of Etta for almost 60 years; devoted father of Steven (Janet) of Princeton, NJ; grandfather of Sherry and Jason, and brother of Morty. Formerly of Baldwin, NY, and Coconut Creek, FL. A member of the U.S. Army in World War II.
 FEIN-Mitchell. 84. Lost his battle with Parkinson's disease Saturday, August 12. Brilliant engineer, loving husband, father and grandfather. He was kind, political and very generous. He will be missed by his colleagues, his community and his family. He is survived by his wife of fifty-one y
 FLEETWOOD-Harvey, Jr. Age 84 of Millington, NJ on August 14, 2000. Beloved husband of Maria E. (Valenzuela), M.D., devoted father of Harvey Blake Fleetwood, Francis F. Fleetwood, Christian V. Fleetwood, Carmen Fleetwood Paul, and Charlotte C. Fleetwood and grandfather of four. A Memorial se
 GUREVITCH-Fannie. The entire Heschel School community extends its heartfelt sympathy to Rabbi Judah Nadich, esteemed former member of the Board of Trustees, on the loss of his sister, Fannie Gurevitch. We send our condolences to the entire Nadich/ Levin family. Ria Gruss, Vice President Ala
 HANDAL-Joseph, 83. Textile executive and philanthropist, died Saturday, August 12, after a prolonged and valiant struggle with cancer. Cherished companion of Kathleen Wyman, loving brother of Hilda, beloved father of Dick, Don, Jim and Gary, devoted grandfather of Allison, Doralice, Jennife
 KIRSHENBAUM-A. Hyman, M.D. On August 14, 2000 at the age of 75. Beloved husband of Judith Iseson Kirshenbaum and devoted father of Wendy Lipstadt (Nat) & Barry Kirshenbaum (Corinne Benchimol, M.D.). Proud grandfather of Adam and Jordan Lipstadt and Matthew and twins, Lauren and Stephanie Ki
 LINCOLN-Peter G., Clinical psychologist in private practice in Manhattan and active member of the New York State Psychological Assn. Formerly with St. LukesRoosevelt Hospital Center and Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy. Graduate of Princeton University, Class of 1965, and recipient of a 
 MURPHY-Richard G. On August 13th, 2000. He was 83. Born in Brooklyn, New York, he had been a resident of Larchmont since 1919 and also attended Fordham School of Business. Mr. Murphy worked in the municipal bond business starting in 1936 with B.J. Van Ingen & Company until his retirement in
 PLEHN-Richard Allen. On August 14, 2000. Survived by his devoted wife, Lois Plehn, and four children, Cynthia and her husband Edward Greenwald of Los Angeles, CA, Pamela, Richard and Tina and soon-to-be son-in-law David Max, of New York City. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 RUSCH-John. The Board, staff and participants of Union Settlement Association offer our condolences to his wife, Gina Rusch for the loss of her husband. He made a tremendous contribution to the communities in which he lived.       
 THOMASES-Fred. The Officers and Staff of American ORT mourn the passing of our friend and supporter, Fred Thomases. His dedication to the Jewish people, children and education is his legacy to the students of ORT. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Florence Thomases, her children 
 WELLS-George, 88. Of Hayden Lakes, ID, died August 12, 2000 at Life Care Center of Coeur D'Alene following a lengthy illness. He was born March 19, 1912 in Colon, Panama where his father was one of four departmental heads on the construction of the Canal. Mr. Wells attended public school in
 WIRTH-Morris A. The Partners, Counsel, Associates and Staff of Baer Marks & Upham LLP mourn the loss of our partner and friend after a brief battle against the ravages of cancer. Morris had a distinguished fifty-year career in the practice of law and was most readily identified with over th
 WOLKE-Marshall. The World Council of Masorti/Conservative Synagogues mourns the passing of our past president, Marshall Wolke. During his administration he was able to lay the foundation for our global outreach programs. May his luminous memory be a constant blessing to the entire community
 Ross Lee Finney III, a mathematician whose textbooks have instructed millions of high school and college students, died on Aug. 3 in Carmel Valley, Calif. A former resident of Lincoln, Mass., he was 67. The cause was a cancer-related illness, according to his publisher, Addison-Wesl
 Val Dufour, an Emmy Award-winning star of television soap operas, died on July 27 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 73. Mr. Dufour won an Emmy Award as outstanding actor in a daytime drama series in the 1976-77 season for playing John Wyatt, a lawyer, on ''Search for Tomorrow.'' 
 David Henry Blee, a legendary American spymaster who played a critical role in dispelling the climate of paranoia that paralyzed the Central Intelligence Agency's espionage operations against the Soviet Union in the 1960's, died on Aug. 4 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 83. Plac
 BRODSKY-Edward. The Board, Staff, and Friends of the Garden are saddened by the passing of Edward Brodsky, husband of our esteemed Board member Cynthia. As a pre-eminent member of the Bar and public servant, he made far-reaching contributions to the civic life of New York City. We extend ou
 EYLES-David, 60. Retired vice chairman and chief credit officer of FleetBoston Financial Corp., died unexpectedly at his home in South Carolina on Monday, August 14th. Mr. Eyles began his banking career in 1961 when he joined Chemical Banking Corporation in New York City. In his 27-year car
 FEICK-William Jr. Known to all his friends in various parts of the world as ''The Man who was larger than Life'' died peacefully August 14, in New York. He had homes in Palm Beach, Florida, and Toronto, Canada. Mr. Feick joined the USNR as Lt. (J.G.) in 1944 serving in the Pacific Theater-A
 HOLLINGSWORTH-Schuyler. Of Chestnut Hill, on Tuesday, August 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne (Delano Grant) Hollingsworth. Devoted father of Schuyler Hollingsworth, Jr. and his wife Deborah, of San Marino, CA, Frazier Curtis and his wife Jacqui, of Littleton, CO, Amor Hollingsworth and hi
 LEVINE-Irving. 95 years old. Died August 15, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Devoted father of Susan Houston, Arthur Levine and the late Beth Siegel. Cherished grandfather of Daniel, Elisabeth, James & Magda. Dearest brother of Betty Allen & Alice Sadowsky. Services Thursday, 10AM
 PAOLINI-Albert F. Of Easton, CT, died peacefully at home on Tuesday, August 15th. He was the husband of Barbara Paolini. Retired president of Tilcon CT, Inc., Mr. Paolini was involved in the construction industry for over forty years, formerly serving as Senior Vice President of D'Addario I
 PLASSE-Herman. Age 91, of Great Neck, NY, on August 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Sherley. Devoted father of Terry, Jonathan, and Andrew. Father-in-law of Barbara and Beatrice. Loving grandfather of Amitai, Ori, Eitan, Jacob, Leah, David, and Sandra. Funeral August 17, 2:00 PM, Riverside Nas
 PLEHN-Richard A. We respectfully offer our most sincere condolences to the family and close friends of Richard, whom we fortuitously knew for more than four decades. We sincerely believe that many of the unique qualities of this highly successful and generous person have been indelibly pass
 SHLEFFAR-Irvin Ezekiel (Zeke). Died August 15 at 89, after a long illness characterized by the same good cheer, courage, and grace with which he lived. Beloved husband of the late Ida, survived by adoring daughters Susan (Gary) Palestrant of Ossining & Jo Ellen (Robert) Winters of Philadelp
 WOLKE-Marshall. The United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the passing of Marshall Wolke, International President of the United Synagogue from 1981-85 and longtime leader of the USCJ Midwest Region. During his many years of service to our organization, he demonstrated a firm commit
 Raymond J. Broderick, a former federal judge who closed a Pennsylvania institution for the retarded and disabled and ruled that Philadelphia should not have paid for a platform for a visiting pope, died on Aug. 6 in a retirement community in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 86. He stepped down 
 Robert B. Watson, dean of students at Harvard University during the student uprisings of the late 1960's and later the driving force behind the construction of sports facilities as the university's athletic director, died on Saturday at his home in Cataumet, Mass. He was 86. A popul
 George Carleton Myers, a sociologist and demographer who compiled and interpreted facts and figures about the elderly worldwide, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Burnsville, N.C. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Duke University, from which he retired as professor emeri
 Milt Rosen, a versatile writer whose work included television scripts, comedy one-liners and books, died last Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said a friend and author, Austin Kalisch. Mr. Rose's more than a dozen books include ''The Second
 ALLEN-Thomas P., August 15, 2000, after an extended illness. He will be lovingly remembered by his wife of 30 years, Carol Allen, by his colleagues at Stuyvesant Square at Beth Israel Medical Center, by many grateful patients, and by his close community of friends. His humor, gentleness and
 BREGMAN-Walter Ward. Of Roslyn, New York, on August 16, 2000. Devoted son of the late Louis I. and Bella (Breakstone) Bregman. Dear & loving husband of Miriam, cherished father of Judy, Jo Ann and Paul. Beloved father-in-law of Mark Welch, Jack Miles & Susan (Cassel) Bregman, dear brother o
 BROWN-Walston S. Aug. 17 at 92. Retired partner of Willkie Farr & Gallagher. Survived by his loving and devoted wife, Dr. Ellen Regan Brown. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced.       
 DONOVAN-John Timothy, M.D. Native of Brooklyn, resident of Tenafly, N.J. for 45 years. Died at home August 17, 2000 of cancer. Patron of the arts, protector of nature. His enthusiasm, intellect and love of life inspired all who knew him. He was Assistant Attending Urologist at Columbia Pres
 GEOGHAN-William F.X., Jr, on August 16, 2000 of Manhasset, New York. Beloved husband of the late Celeste Pomar Geoghan. Dear father of Mary Celeste Walters, William F.X. III, Theodore J. & James A. Loving grandfather of Nicholas, Scott, and Andrew Walters and Caitlyn, Keith, Schuyler and Sp
 HOLLINGSWORTH-Schuyler. Of Chestnut Hill, on Tuesday, August 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne (Delano Grant) Hollingsworth. Devoted father of Schuyler Hollingsworth, Jr. and his wife Deborah, of San Marino, CA, Frazier Curtis and his wife Jacqui, of Littleton, CO, Amor Hollingsworth and hi
 KIRSHENBAUM-Dr. A. Hyman. Young Israel of the West Side mourns the passing of a longstanding, devoted member, Dr. A. Hyman Kirshenbaum. A distinguished neurosurgeon, he brought compassion and skill to his patients. He was faithful to G-d and Man. May the Comforter of Zion console his bereav
 KLUGMAN-Joseph, 83. Beloved husband of Shirley. Cherished patriarch of a large and loving family who adored and respected him. Father of Dr. Peter Klugman (Marthanne), Nancy Rubin (Ronald) and Jane Ockers (Thomas). Grandfather of Deborah (James), Rebekah (Matthew), David (Amy), Michael, Jen
 LOIACONO-John C. Age 36, died August 16, 2000. He had several assignments at GE Capital prior to joining Worth Media, LLC where he felt he had the happiest and most productive period of his professional career. He was recently named Chairman of the Worth Media Charitable Fund and Advisor to
 McGLINN-Joseph P. 58. Of Monroe, New York. Died Wednesday, August 16, 2000, at his residence. Beloved husband of Mary (nee Cuddy). Devoted father of Ellen Wilson, Clare, Tim and Matt. Loving brother of Mary Dallow, Ann Comeau, Bernard and Michael and the late Margaret McGlinn and beloved gr
 SACHS-Benjamin K. On August 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Ethel; devoted father of David, Leslie and Lawrence; father-in-law of Karen and Robert. Adored grandfather of Rachel, Sam, Eli, Shmuel, Moshe, Dovid and Esther. He will be missed by all. Funeral Friday at 9:45 am, Gutterman's, 8000 Je
 SCHEFTEL-Herbert. Grandson of Ida and Isadore Straus who died on the Titanic, was known to his friends as ''Buzzie.'' Mr. Scheftal, who lived in New York City, Easthampton, Le Touquet, France, died at the age of 92 on August 16 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He attended St. Bernard's School, St. Pa
 SHLEFFAR-Irvin Ezekiel (Zeke), DDS. Died August 15 at 89, after a long illness characterized by the same good cheer, courage, and grace with which he lived. Beloved husband of the late Ida, survived by adoring daughters Susan (Gary) Palestrant of Ossining & Jo Ellen (Robert) Winters of Phil
 STEINBAUM-Dr. Paul S. Died August 16, at his home in Morristown, NJ, at age 85, after suffering a stroke in July. A family physician for fifty years, he practiced in Leonia and Ortley Beach, NJ, before retiring in 1994. During World War II, he was captain of the 726th Army Medical Company a
 Robert R. Gilruth, an early leader of the American space program and director of the Johnson Space Center during the Apollo lunar landings, died yesterday in Charlottesville, Va. He was 86 and lived near Warrenton, Va. Beyond the limelight occupied by astronauts, flight directors an
 Harllee Branch Jr., a top utility executive and outspoken critic of such government-subsidized competitors as the Tennessee Valley Authority, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Atlanta. He was 94. Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Branch joined the Georgia Power Company in midcareer and qui
 Lawrence H. Cooke, a former chief judge of New York State known for his homespun style and liberal rulings on such matters as the rights of criminal defendants and freedom of the press, died Thursday at his home in Monticello, N.Y. He was 85. As chief judge, he was responsible for a
 BARDSLEY-R. Geoffrey. Of Stamford, CT., died August 14, age 72, while recovering from injuries sustained when struck by a vehicle June 7th. while training for a half marathon. Beloved husband of Elda Shantz Bardsley and father of Kathryn, Alex and Alyson. Born and raised in England, educate
 COOKE-Honorable Lawrence H. We express our condolences to the family of Honorable Lawrence H. Cooke. Our entire community feels this great loss. Jack & Shirley Ingber and Keith & Pamela Ingber COOKE-Lawrence H. The citizens of New York will continue to benefit for years to come from
 NANDA-Brij B. On August 17, 2000. Loving husband of Dino. Proud father of Neil and his wife Sonika. Caring grandfather of Noor and Jai. Beloved brother, uncle and close friend. Visiting and services at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Avenue and 12th St. Garden City, Saturday 12-1:30PM. Crema
 SELIGMAN-Peter. Beloved son of Bonnie and Robert Konigsberg. Loving brother of Stephanie and Paul Balint, Suzanne and Marc Reimer, Michael and Kim Konigsberg, Marc and Lynn Konigsberg, and Richard Konigsberg. Cherished grandson of Sylvia and Lester Kovar. Beloved fiance of Sara Senik. Servi
 SHERMAN-Victor. On August 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Glenda; loving father of Beth and Nancy; father in-law of Andy and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Jessie and Sam. Friends may call Sunday 7-9pm, Frank E. Campbell The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Funeral service Mond
 THOMASES-Fred. Beloved husband of Florence, loving father of Jeffrey, Matthew, Robert, and Susan, beloved grandfather, and long-time supporter of the Israel Cancer Research Fund. He was a man of generous spirit. Profound sympathy is extended to his family. The Officers, Board & Staff ICRF  
 WEINSTEIN-Rose P. The Alumni Association of Columbia College expresses its deepest sympathy to Board Vice President Edward A. Weinstein and his family on the passing of his mother Rose P. Weinstein.       
 WILSON-C. Philip. The Officers and Faculty of the NYU Psychoanalytic Institute and the Officers and Members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourn the passing of our esteemed and beloved colleague Dr. C. Philip Wilson. His contributions to psychosomatic medicine are memorable. 
 South African Judge Hassen Mall, an Indian immigrant who was the country's first nonwhite jurist and a key figure in the nation's searching effort to lay to rest its apartheid past, died Friday. He was 78, his son said. Judge Mall, who had been suffering both heart and kidney proble
 BROWN-Walston S. Aug. 17 at 92. Retired partner of Willkie Farr & Gallagher. Survived by his loving and devoted wife, Dr. Ellen Regan Brown. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced.       
 COHEN-Eli. Died August 17, Age 88. Retired from the National Committee on Employment of Youth and New York City Board of Education. Survived by his wife, Selma and five children; Katey York, Ellen Lerner, Bob Cohen, Peter and Marc Rosenbaum; and grandchildren Sasha, Nicholas, Timothy, Jessy
 COOKE-Lawrence H. The Officers, Directors and members of the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York note with deep sadness the passing of the Hon. Lawrence H. Cooke, former Chief Judge of the State of New York. Chief Judge Cooke was an exemplary jurist, who had the common touch an
 DEGLIN-Theodore Leon. 92. Of New York City, passed away on August 15, 2000. Mr. Deglin is survived by his wife of 39 years, Ann (Reirden). Twin daughters Kane Peterson of Westport, Ct., Dorian Scammon of Hopkinton, N.H. and six grandchildren. Viewing was at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Avenue
 EDELSTEIN-Judge David N. United States Judge, S.D.N.Y. Beloved husband of Florence (Koch), and proud father of Jeffrey and Jonathan. David loved his family, his friends, his country and the law. Services: Park Avenue Synagogue, Monday, 11:30AM, 87th St. and Madison Ave.       
 FOGEL-Arthur. The good brother to his sisters, Ruth Rosen and Marilyn Blank, and their families. Beloved brother, devoted uncle.       
 HOLLINGSWORTH-Schuyler. Of Chestnut Hill, on Tuesday, August 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne (Delano Grant) Hollingsworth. Devoted father of Schuyler Hollingsworth, Jr. and his wife Deborah, of San Marino, CA, Frazier Curtis and his wife Jacqui, of Littleton, CO, Amor Hollingsworth and hi
 KOENIG-Burton G. 73, of Coconut Creek, FL and Bayonne, NJ. Preceded in death by his beloved wife, Judge Gloria K. Koenig. Dearly loved son of the late Harry A. and Beatrice Koenig. Survived by brothers Marvin and Solomon, nephew George H., nieces Dr. Debra Cantor, Randi Koenig, and dear fri
 PIERCE-Martin Gay. While mountain climbing in India. Of Atlanta, GA. Husband of Margaret; father of Curtis, Katharine, and Evelina; brother of Elizabeth Fuchs and Josiah. Grandfather of Clayton Pierce. Also survived by his parents, William Curtis and Elizabeth Pierce.       
 RUBEN-William. All of us at Carnival Corporation mourn the death of our very dear friend, colleague and trusted advisor, Bill Ruben. Bill joined Carnival Corporation's Board of Directors when the Company went public in July 1987. He has provided the Company with years of valuable service, s
 SAMBERG-Meyer. 85, of Riverdale, NY. Died August 18. Graduate of City College, 1935. Received MBA at Columbia. Taught merchandising at Textile High School. Worked with architects and builders designing new lighting technology in the construction industry, representing universities and major
 SCHEFTEL-Herbert. Grandson of Ida and Isadore Straus who died on the Titanic, was known to his friends as ''Buzzie.'' Mr. Scheftel, who lived in New York City, Easthampton, Le Touquet, France, died at the age of 92 on August 16 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He attended St. Bernard's School, St. Pa
 SELIGMAN-Peter. We mourn with profound sorrow the tragic and untimely loss of our beloved Partner, colleague and friend. Peter was a gifted and deeply committed professional whose outstanding skills and brilliant instincts served his clients with unparalleled excellence. Peter's extraordina
 SHERMAN-Victor. On August 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Glenda; loving father of Beth and Nancy; father in-law of Andy and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Jessie and Sam. Friends may call Sunday 7-9pm, Frank E. Campbell The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Funeral service Mond
 SHLEFFAR-Irvin Ezekiel (Zeke), DDS. Died August 15 at 89, after a long illness characterized by the same good cheer, courage, and grace with which he lived. Beloved husband of the late Ida, survived by adoring daughters Susan (Gary) Palestrant of Ossining & Jo Ellen (Robert) Winters of Phil
 SINGER-Donald K. On August 18, 2000. Survived by his wife of 50 years, Dottie, children Douglas and Diana Singer, Mary Ann and Charles Beier, William and Karen Singer, grandchildren Michael and Katie Singer. Executive at Bergdorf Goodman's and Bloomingdale's fur departments. Volunteered at 
 TAUB-Lillian. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University, its Board and staff, express our deepest sympathy to Melvin Taub, our Chairman Emeritus, and his entire family on the passing of their beloved mother Lillian. May happy memories of their years together sustain them in this time of s
 WEISINGER-Bernard. On his 91st birthday, August 19, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Bettie (Mayers) Weisinger. Loving father of devoted daughter Suzanne (Dr. Jacques) Debrosse, Andrew (Dolly), and the late Chester (Marsha). Dear grandfather of Melanie, Michael, Joy (Steven), Ira, Bryan (N
 WILSON-C. Philip, M.D. Of Manhattan and Old Lyme, CT, on August 17, 2000 at age 79 of cardiac causes. Pioneer in the psychoanalysis of eating disorders, he is survived by his wife of 49 years, Christine (nee Bagaloff) Wilson, children, Cynthia, Marc and Scott, daughter-in-law, Anne Allan Wi
 Judge David N. Edelstein of United States District Court in Manhattan, who in 48 years on the bench presided over two of the Justice Department's most historic undertakings -- the antitrust action against I.B.M. and the ongoing effort to rid the Teamsters union of corruption --  died on Sat
 Harry F. Oppenheimer, the South African gold and diamond magnate who used his great wealth and considerable influence in the fight against apartheid, died on Saturday in Johannesburg. He was 91. Mr. Oppenheimer was admitted to Kenridge Hospital in Johannesburg on Friday after compla
 BLOOM-Joseph J. Beloved husband of Harriet; devoted father of Myron and Wendy; cherished grandfather of Adam, Ethan, Sara, Rachel, Amy, Debra, and Evan. Loving brother of Frieda, Aaron, and Bernie. Services Monday, 2 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck,
 CONNER-Rev. John, O.F.M., Cap. The Capuchin Friars of the church and friary of St. John the Baptist, 210 West 31st Street, sadly announce the entrance of their brother, John, into Eternal Life on August 19, 2000, at the age of 48. His faith and living with cancer was an inspiration to all. 
 EDELSTEIN-Judge David N. United States Judge, S.D.N.Y. Beloved husband of Florence (Koch), and proud father of Jeffrey and Jonathan. David loved his family, his friends, his country and the law. Services: Park Avenue Synagogue, Monday, 11:30AM, 87th St. and Madison Ave. EDELSTEIN-Ju
 FINE-David. Died in Tamarac, FL, on August 19. His life spanned three centuries and his contributions to his adopted country were many. Along with his late son Leon and late brother Norman, he built homes in Queens, Nassau and Suffolk Counties, which are a tribute to his accomplishments. Hi
 FURMAN-William. Age 91, on August 18, 2000. Loving husband of Mathilda and father of Roger. The kindest of persons with a sparkle in his eye, he had courage and principle, fighting for a decade in the anti-Nazi resistance movement within Germany. Family will receive friends on Tuesday, Augu
 LEVINE-Mark. On August 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Vera; loving father of Carrie Draws, Moacyr Vendramin, and Juliana Vendramin; adoring grandfather of Christopher Draws; dear brother of Scott Levine and Barbara Levine. He will be profoundly missed by his family, friends, and business asso
 OWEN-Neil. Age 48, died suddenly on August 18, 2000, while hiking the Appalachian Trail in Maine. Beloved husband, partner and best friend of Dee. Cherished brother of Roy and Nell. Devoted uncle of Matthew, Keri, Garth, Evan and Lee. Much loved brother in-law of Guy and Elisa. Treasured fr
 SAMBERG-Meyer. 85, of Riverdale, NY. Died August 18. Graduate of City College, 1935. Received MBA at Columbia. Taught merchandising at Textile High School. Worked with architects and builders designing new lighting technology in the construction industry, representing universities and major
 SHERMAN-Victor. On August 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Glenda; loving father of Beth and Nancy; father in-law of Andy and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Jessie and Sam. Friends may call Sunday 7-9pm, Frank E. Campbell The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Funeral service Mond
 SRYBNIK-Jay. The Board of Governors and members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Jay Srybnik. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Evelyn and family. Michael H. Kerr, President SRYBNIK-Julius. Beloved husband of Evelyn Srybnik. Beloved fathe
 ZICKLIN-Robert. Died on August 20, 2000. Beloved husband of Carole. Devoted father of Adrienne and Diana. Grandfather of Benjamin. Cherished brother of Stanley and Gilbert. Closest of cousins to Larry and Rita, and loyal friend to many. A consummate New Yorker, he lived his life as a gift. 
 Herbert Scheftel, an investor in real estate and television stations, died on Wednesday in New York. Mr. Scheftel, who lived in New York and had residences in East Hampton and Le Touquet, France, was 92. The best-known real estate project Mr. Scheftel was involved in, along with his
 Lynn A. Townsend, a retired chairman and chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation, died Thursday at Botsford Continuing Health Center in Farmington Hills, Mich. The cause of death was not disclosed. He was 81. When Mr. Townsend retired in 1975, Chrysler was heavily in debt and in
 Michael Maggio, a theater director known for his appetite for a wide range of works -- from Shakespeare and Samuel Beckett to Tom Stoppard and Stephen Sondheim -- but perhaps as much for his own personal drama, died on Saturday in Chicago, where he was born and lived most of his life. He wa
 BARTON-Shelley J. Died August 16. Age 74. Born in Bensonhurst, NY December 21, 1925. WW II Veteran. BS Syracuse University, 1948. Survived and cherished by daughters, Lin and Antigone, wife Priscilla and companion Jean Gatehouse. Music lover and art collector. Veteran NYC publishing executi
 BLOCK-Dr. James D.C. Died August 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Dr. Angela B. Dellepiane; dear brother of Gloria Putnam; loving uncle of Nelson, Mary Helen, and Catherine. He is also survived by his grandnieces and grandnephews, and his cousins Bruce and Barbara, Edward and Wilmot and their c
 BLOOM-Joseph J. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Joseph J. Bloom, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Mr. Bloom shared a deep devotion to Jewish and humanitarian causes with his friend and business partner, Irwin Hochberg,
 GOLDSTEIN-Warren, 48. Of Scarsdale, NY, on August 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Janet, loving father of Peter & Laura, devoted son of Ruth and the late Seymour Goldstein, adored brother of Joel Goldstein and Arlene Rhodes. Compassionate, intelligent and loving friend. He will be missed by al
 KILBURN-H. Thomas Jr. 69. Of Greenwich died Saturday at home. Born on August 1, 1931 in New York, New York, Mr. Kilburn was the son of the late Henry T. and Florence Cross Kilburn. Mr. Kilburn was a graduate of The Hotchkiss School Princeton University and Columbia University School of Law.
 LEVINE-Mark. On August 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Vera; loving father of Carrie Draws, Moacyr Vendramin, and Juliana Vendramin; adoring grandfather of Christopher Draws; dear brother of Scott Levine and Barbara Levine. He will be profoundly missed by his family, friends, and business asso
 McKINNEY-Walker, 72. Died peacefully of acute leukemia at his home on August 20th. A Graduate of The Hill School and Princeton University, 1950. Son of the late Jane and J. Donald McKinney and brother of J. Donald McKinney Jr. and the late Linda McKinney Geib. Uncle of Barkley and Howell Ge
 MORRISON-Victor I. Jr., by his own hand on August 18th, 2000 in Old Lyme, Connecticut. Born Montecito, California on July 8, 1924 to Col. Victor I. Morrison and Nancy Park Morrison. Predeceased by a sister, Patricia, a brother, Park, and his first wife and mother of his children, Betsy Holm
 OWEN-Neil. Age 48, died suddenly on August 16, 2000, while hiking the Appalachian Trail in Maine. Beloved husband, partner and best friend of Dee. Cherished brother of Roy and Nell. Devoted uncle of Matthew, Keri, Garth, Evan and Lee. Much loved brother in-law of Guy and Elisa. Treasured fr
 RAND-Ernest, 81. On Sunday, August 20. Beloved husband of Fran and the late Ann (z''l). Cherished father of Stephen and Linda Rand and Eve and Larry Pyser. Loved and adored Grandpa Ernie to Alyssa, Adam, Julie, Samantha, and Danielle. Devoted stepfather to Robin and Curt, Suzanne and Charle
 SAMBERG-Meyer. 85, of Riverdale, NY. Died August 18. Graduate of City College, 1935. Received MBA at Columbia. Taught merchandising at Textile High School. Worked with architects and builders designing new lighting technology in the construction industry, representing universities and major
 SELIGMAN-Peter. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Peter Seligman, whose tragic death Friday morning stunned virtually all New Yorkers. Our deepest sympathies go to his fiancee, Sara Sinek; to the Seligman family; and with personal condolence
 SHERMAN-Victor. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Victor Sherman, a dedicated leader and valued member of the Executive Committee of our Plumbing and Heating Division. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Glenda
 SLEVIN-James V. On Saturday August 19, 2000 of Long Eddy, NY, formerly of Wayne, NJ. Before retiring in 1991, he worked for New York Life Ins. Co. for 38 years as a General Manager of the Knickerbocker Office in the Empire State Building in Manhattan. A devoted family man, Jim is survived b
 SRYBNIK-Julius. The Management and Staff of Kerns Manufacturing Corp and Associated Companies mourn the untimely passing of their Partner, Officer and Member of the Board. His wise council and true friendship will be missed by all who knew him. We extend to his wife Evelyn, son Jed, daughte
 SWIG-Robert Jeffrey. Born in San Francisco on January 20, 1961, Robert J. Swig peacefully passed away in the early morning hours of August 19, 2000 at his Hillsborough home after a short illness. He leaves behind his wife of ten years, Kim Baldwin Swig; their three beautiful daughters, Sara
 TANNEN-Philip, 74. Passed away August 19, 2000. Survived by wife Janice, daughters Elissa (David), Tracey (Gary) and his grandchildren, Megan, Paul, Zachary, Carly, Sean. ''Too bad it had to end, it was so much fun.'' Private services were held on Monday, Aug 21, 2000. Hillside Mortuary, ph
 WILSON-C. Philip. The faculty, staff, and candidates of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. C. Philip Wilson. We extend our condolences to his wife Christine, his children Cynthia, Marc, and Scott, and his 
 ZICKLIN-Robert. Died on August 20, 2000. Beloved husband of Carole, devoted father of Adrienne and Diana, loving father-in-law of David, proud grandfather of Benjamin, cherished brother of Stanley and Gilbert, dearest cousin to Larry and Rita, adored son-in-law of Rosalind Adler and loyal f
 ZORN-Milton J. August 21, 2000. Beloved husband and best friend of Norma for 48 years. Most loving father of Amy, the late Janet, and son-in-law Steven. Happiest grandfather of Jonah. Dear uncle and brother-in-law, kind friend and colleague of greatest integrity. We are all blessed to have 
 Robert Edward Thibault, a staff editor on the national desk of The New York Times for 31 years, died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. His death resulted from complications of a stroke, his family said. Born in Claremont, N.H., on Oct.
 A. Reynolds Morse, a wealthy businessman and collector whose passion for the work of Salvador Dali resulted in the founding of a popular small museum, died on Aug. 15 at a nursing home in Seminole, Fla. He was 85 and lived in St. Petersburg, Fla., where he and his wife, Eleanor Reese Morse,
 Abulfaz Elchibey, a former history professor who became the first democratically elected president of Azerbaijan before fleeing into internal exile, died early today in a Turkish hospital where he was being treated for advanced prostate cancer. He was 62. Mr. Elchibey's death was an
 Charles R. Pierce, a former chairman of the Long Island Lighting Company who championed the disputed Shoreham nuclear power plant only to see the project upend his 34-year association with the company, died on Monday. He was 78 and lived at Lloyd Harbor, near Huntington, N.Y.       
 CARDO-Vito A. Sr., Esq. It has pleased God to call to Himself our dear father, grandfather and friend on August 21, 2000, age 92. An honored member of the New York State Bar Association for over fifty years, dedicated 50+ years of voluntary service to the Providence Rest Foundation and repr
 EDELSTEIN-Hon. David N. The Fordham Law Alumni Association records with profound sorrow the passing of Judge David Edelstein, our distinguished graduate from the Class of 1934 and a Director of our Association. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Florence and to his sons, Jo
 HAFFNER-Alfred L. Jr. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. On August 22, 2000. Patent Attorney, partner with Morgan & Finnegan L.L.P. Beloved husband of Dolores. Devoted father of Mary Beth Perry, Anne Sullivan, Jeanne Marie and Catherine Diane. Loving brother of Helen Gillespie and uncle to William, Alexand
 HEINTSCHEL-Donald E., Msgr. The Diocese of Toledo, Ohio sadly announces the death of one of its long-time priests, internationally renowned, Canonist and lawyer, Msgr. Donald E. Heintschel. Heintschel also served as Associate General Secretary of the US Catholic Conference of Bishops, 1982-
 JAY-John Elliot, age 78. It is with profound sorrow that the partners, associates and staff of Parker Chapin LLP mourn the passing of their former esteemed Senior Partner John E. Jay. He was the founder of the firm's Labor Department and contributed much to its development. He was a dear fr
 LEWINSKY-Akiva. The Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany (Claims Conference) deeply mourns the passing in Israel of Akiva Lewinsky, our honorary treasurer. Our beloved friend Akiva served tirelessly on behalf of Shoah survivors as Claims Conference vice president and treasur
 MAVETY-George W. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member Friar George Mavety on August 19, 2000. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. A memorial service will be held Thursday, August 24th, 3PM at Saint Peter's Luther
 McKINNEY-Walker, 72. Died peacefully of acute leukemia at his home on August 20th. A Graduate of The Hill School and Princeton University, 1950. Son of the late Jane and J. Donald McKinney and brother of J. Donald McKinney Jr. and the late Linda McKinney Geib. Uncle of Barkley and Howell Ge
 OWEN-Neil. Age 48, died suddenly on August 16, 2000, while hiking the Appalachian Trail in Maine. Beloved husband, partner and best friend of Dee. Cherished brother of Roy and Nell. Devoted uncle of Matthew, Keri, Garth, Evan and Lee. Much loved brother in-law of Guy and Elisa. Treasured fr
 ROSEN-William, age 89. Died on August 20th, Los Angeles, Calif. Survived by devoted wife Ray, daughter Judy (Barry) Wollman, granddaughters Elaine (Douglas) Mura, Nancy (Todd) Albinger, and Wendy (Brian) Globerman, great grandchildren Michael, Dustin, and Bailey Albinger, Cathryn, Eric, Jac
 ROSENBERG-Gilbert. Beloved husband of Gloria, devoted father of Nancy, Nina, Beth, Regina and Gavin, dear brother of Elaine Pepe. Cherished grandfather of Carly, Ben, Molly, Sean and Matthew. Well known and respected member of the liquor industry. Senior VP of Schenley Industries. Owner and
 SOMMERS-Stewart M. On August 21, 2000, of Boca Raton, FL. Adored father of Susan Bell and Jan Gallant. Fond brother of Enid Caruso. Loving grandfather of Daniel, Nancy and Cory. He will be missed by all who loved him. Graveside service today 11 AM, Mount Judah Cemetery, Queens. Shiva will b
 SWIG-Robert Jeffrey. Born in San Francisco on January 20, 1961, Robert J. Swig peacefully passed away in the early morning hours of August 19, 2000 at his Hillsborough home after a short illness. He leaves behind his wife of ten years, Kim Baldwin Swig; their three beautiful daughters, Sara
 WEINSTEIN-Charles A. On August 21. Beloved husband of Ritzi, adored father of Emily, and sonin-law of Robert Standley. Loving brother of Robert. Cherished grandfather of Jake and Luke. Service Wednesday 1pm at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Ave, NYC. Graveside service Thursday, 1:45
 ZICKLIN-Robert. Dear friend. His wit, intelligence and warmth will be greatly missed. All our love. Shelly, Rory, Simon and Hilary.       
 ZORN-Milton J. August 21, 2000. Beloved husband and best friend of Norma for 48 years. Most loving father of Amy, the late Janet, and son-in-law Steven. Happiest grandfather of Jonah. Dear uncle and brother-in-law, kind friend and colleague of greatest integrity. We are all blessed to have 
 Kevin McAuliffe, a speechwriter for three New York City mayors and the editor of a collection of comments by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani  published this year, died Saturday. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. McAuliffe worked a
 Lt. Gen. David William Traub, a pivotal Army logistics officer for D-Day and in the Korean War, who later oversaw the rapid expansion of the State University of New York system, died on Aug. 16 at a hospital in Lawrence, Mass. A former resident of Loudonville, N.Y., an Albany suburb, he had
 Ole C. Risom, one of the most influential publishers of mass-market books for children, died on Saturday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Roslyn Harbor, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said his son Nicholas. Mr. Risom was vice president and art director of Golden Books W
 Robert J. Northshield, an innovator in television news who established one of its most enduring programs, died on Monday night in a New York area nursing home. He was 78. He had been ill for some time, his former colleagues said. Mr. Northshield, who was known to colleagues 
 Arthur Newman, a baritone who sang with the New York City Opera in the 1940's and 50's, died on Aug. 6 in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92. Mr. Newman, who was born in St. Louis, began his stage career in the 1930's as a member of the Missouri Theater Company. Although his roles were pri
 Harry Bronstein, a veteran New York City official who was instrumental in changes that made it easier for women and members of minority groups to become police officers and sanitation workers, died on Aug. 3 in Los Angeles. He was 83 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Bronstein was the c
 Dr. Julian Nance Carsey, a Maryland college president who twice vanished and created a new life for himself, died on Sunday at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 65. Dr. Carsey, known as Jay, had a liver ailment, said his companion, Corinne Silverton. Dr. Carsey first dis
 Neil Wilson, a tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera from 1988 to 1993 and was particularly admired for his portrayal of the title role in Massenet's ''Werther,'' died on Monday. He was 44 and had homes in New York and Berlin. The cause was kidney cancer, said his manager, Neil F
 BRODER-Norman D. On August 23 at age 86. Longtime volunteer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Beloved husband of Hannah and stepfather of Nan Lehmann and James Rothenberg. Devoted grandfather of Jill, Amy, Karen and Laurie. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street,
 BURKE-Philip John, former sports writer, Age 65, of Millville, DE, died Wednesday, Aug. 23, 2000 at his residence. A visitation will be held at Parsell Funeral Homes & Crematorium, Atkins-Lodge Chapel, 1449 Kings Highway, Lewes on Sunday, August 27, 2000 from 6-8 PM. Mass of Christian Buria
 CLARK-Brother Bartholomew Albert, F.S.C., 80, of De La Salle Hall, Lincroft, NJ on Aug. 24, 2000. Brother Albert was the founder of Theta Alpha Kappa-the National Honor Society of Religious Studies/Theology and served as President from 1977-2000. His assignments included De La Salle Institu
 CLURMAN-Herman (Professor Emeritus). Devoted husband of Gloria. Beloved father of Ann Clurman and Judith Clurman Ruben. Dear father-in-law of Cantor Bruce Ruben. Loving brother of David Clurman and Bernice Rieger. Cherished grandfather of Ari Ruben. Services today 10 AM at ''Gutterman's'', 
 COHEN-Hyman. Died August 24, age 70. Survived and cherished by his wife of 50 years Mary, sons Peter and Howard, daughter Esther, grandchildren Paul and Max, daughters - in - law Gina and Deirdre, son-in-law Alan and sister Rebecca. Hyman Cohen was a veteran of the U.S. Army. He was an outs
 DANIEL-David, 58, died on August 13th in Tampa, Fla. He leaves a sister, Charliss Jennings. David wrote brilliantly on dance & music for Vogue, Vanity Fair, The Wall Street Journal, The New Yorker, Stage Bill, and many other publications. We valued his extraordinarily subtle understanding o
 JARETT-Lawrence, Dr. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished and devoted member Dr. Lawrence Jarett. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, Friday at 12:00 Noon. Rabbi Michael White Rabbi Norma
 KAYE-Robert Neil. It is with profound regret that the employees of the Kings County District Attorney's Office and I mourn the passing of our friend and dear colleague, Deputy District Attorney Robert Neil Kaye. Robert Kaye was an extraordinary individual and an expert in criminal justice, 
 KRAINIS-Bernard. Aston Magna's Board of Directors, staff and artists mourn the death of Bernard Krainis. One of its founders, he stepped in at a crucial time to ensure the continuity of the Festival. His warmth, kind spirit and magnificent musicianship will be sorely missed by all who were 
 MACHLIN-Lawrence J., Ph.D. Died August 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Marc, Dr. Steven, and Paul, fatherin-law of Nancy, Paula and Lisa, adored grandfather of Hannah, Leah, Laura, Jared, Noah and Joshua. Brother of Dr. Stanley and Milton. His enthusiasm and love of lif
 McAULIFFE-Kevin M. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Kevin M. McAuliffe, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 MERRITT-Vernon III, a photojournalist for Life magazine, died on August 17 from an accident at his home in Old Lyme, CT, age 59. Merritt's coverage of the civil rights movement and the early days of the Viet Nam war represent an important-and lastingcontribution to American photography. Mer
 PACKARD-Robert K. Beloved husband of Bobbie Packard; Cherished father of Lauren (11), Cassie (9) and Sam (6); Loving brother of Dana Packard, Becky Packard and Leslie Martin; Devoted son of John and Barbara Packard. A resident of Hillsborough, CA. He was 42 years old. Mr. Packard was a prin
 REPETTI-Peter J. Of Short Hills and Spring Lake, NJ, a prominent New York Coorporate Attorney, died Thursday, August 24, 2000, at Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, NJ. Until his retirement Mr. Repetti was a member of the law firm Fulbright and Jaworski, formerly known as Reavis and Mc
 Carl Barks, the once anonymous ''duck man'' for Walt Disney whose draftsmanship and writing gained him a cultlike following among artists and fans of Donald Duck comic books and of his very own creation, Scrooge McDuck, died yesterday at his home in Grants Pass, Ore. He was 99. Mr. 
 Dr. L. Bryce Boyer, a psychoanalyst who advanced the concept of countertransference in doctor-patient communication, died on Aug. 9 in Walnut Creek, Calif. Dr. Boyer, whose practice was in Berkeley, Calif., was 84. Transference, in psychotherapy, is the unconscious tendency 
 ALBERT-Sheridan. The New York State Trial Lawyers Association notes with deep sorrow the passing of a leader of the New York bar, Sheridan Albert. We thank him for his valued service to NYSTLA, as an active member, as President (1978-80) and as dean. NYSTLA extends its sympathies to his fam
 ELTON-William R. The Graduate Center of The City University of New York expresses sympathy to the family of Dr. William R. Elton, Professor of English since 1969. Professor Elton was a dedicated scholar and devoted teacher of Shakespeare's works and of Renaissance thought. He will also be r
 KELLY-John D. On August 24 of Manhasset NY. Beloved husband of Kathleen. Dear father of John, Shawn, Christine, Brian and Timothy. Grandfather of 13. Brother of Ethel Paret. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Boulevard, Manhasset Sunday 2-4 and 7-9PM. Funeral Mass Mond
 MACKIN-John F. 85. Died on August 25, 2000. Formerly of Throgs Neck, Scarsdale and Long Beach Island, New Jersey. He was born on February 3, 1915 to John and Catherine (nee Smith) Mackin in NYC. John was a U.S. Army veteran during W.W.II. Mr. Mackin was a basketball official and baseball um
 REPETTI-Peter J. Of Short Hills and Spring Lake, NJ on August 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Joan Campbell, dear father of Grace Mailman, Christina Long, Joan and Charles. Dear brother of Edith Klein and George and uncle of many nephews and nieces. Visitation Sunday 2-4 & 7-9PM at the Meehan 
 SHERR-Abraham I. On August 25, 2000, at age 90. Beloved husband of the late Jean F. Sherr. Loving father of Rita, Barbara and Alan. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Sunday, 11:30 AM. Interment to follow at Salem Fields Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may b
 SUGARMAN-Morton. July 6, 1920August 17, 2000. World War II veteran. His wife, Lydia, children, Rob and his wife Christine, Nancy, John and grandson Keith will miss this unique, non-conforming, humorous bike rider, world traveler, nature lover and avid reader with a mind like a sponge. Memor
 Dr. Serge Lebovici, a major figure in French psychoanalysis known for his work with infants, children and adolescents, died on Aug. 12 in the south of France, where he had gone for a professional project. He was 85 and lived in Paris. Dr. Lebovici wrote more than 500 scholarly paper
 William S. Cashel Jr., the former chairman of Campbell Soup and the chief financial officer of AT&T during its deregulation, died on Tuesday at his home in Amelia Island, Fla. He was 80. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his wife, Marie, said. Mr. Cashel 
 Dr. Guillermo C. Sanchez, an internist and medical historian associated with Massachusetts General Hospital for five decades, died on Aug. 17 at his home in West Newton, Mass. He was 75. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Sanchez, a prominent figure in Bosto
 Edward Craven Walker, Royal Air Force squadron leader, champion of what the British call the naturist way of life and designer of the Lava lamp, a quintessential accessory of the 1960's and 1970's, died on Aug. 15 at his home in Ringwood, England. He was 82. Mr. Walker was a man of 
 BALBO-Paul. May 14, 1932 to August 17, 2000. Beloved husband, father, son and brother. Served in Korean War, Paratrooper 11th Airborne. Loved his family and his country. Thank you for a lifetime of wonderful memories. Syl & the girls and Joan       
 BAYER-Jack. A philanthropist & devoted father and grandfather, died Wednesday at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Born in Burlington, VT on December 22, 1907, he married Anne Pilver Bayer in 1936. The two lived in Claremont, NH during the 58 years of their loving marriage. Mr. Bayer owned a number of st
 BONNER-George R., Jr. Writer. Of New York City on August 23, 2000. Beloved brother of John R. Bonner, Sr. of Clearwater, FL and Francis W. Bonner, Sr. of Columbus, GA. Dear uncle to his nieces and nephews. Donations in Mr. Bonner's name can be made out to Eighth Church of Christ, Scientist,
 CLURMAN-Herman. My Tax Professor at NYU. The person who helped me choose a career, a law school and my first employer. A man of great wisdom and integrity. My biggest honor was when Professor Clurman invited me to join him as an adjunct faculty member. Thank you. My condolences to the famil
 ELTON-William R. (Professor). Loving son of the late Mollie and William Ribakoff. Devoted brother of Mildred Boyd and Sylvia Gans. Cherished uncle of David Boyd, Susan Gans and Karen GansSchwartz. He was an accomplished poet, a respected scholar and an esteemed member of the faculty of the 
 FARRELLY-Reverend Thomas J. Son of Thomas and Josephine Farrelly, loving brother of Ann Morris and uncle of Robert, JoAnn, Eileen and Maureen, grand-uncle of Justine and Erin. Ordained priest of the Archdiocese of New York in 1961, went to the Lord on August 25, 2000. He served as Associate
 FIGUEROA-Howard G. Of Chappaqua, NY, died on August 25, 2000 at Northern Westchester Hospital. He was 70. Formerly Vice President of I.B.M. Survived by his wife Marie (Binner) Figueroa; daughter Janice Figueroa of Manhattan, NY, and two sons Bruce Figueroa of Norfolk, MA, and David Figueroa
 HAMMOND-Reese, 71. Of Port St. Lucie, FL. on August 10 after a long illness. Retired in 1990 as Director of Research & Education for the International Union of Operating Engineers in Washington, D.C., a post he had held since 1961. He was a fifty year member of Local 94, IUOE in NYC. Prior 
 HUDSON-Jesse T., Jr. Age 79. Of Urbanna, VA. Retired Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with Reynolds Metals Company in Richmond, VA, died Friday, August 25, 2000. He was a member of the Union League Club in New York City. Memorial services will be held Tuesday at 2 PM in 
 PAULSEN-Harold Midskaug. Age 66, of Staten Island, NY, died Friday, August 25, 2000, at home following a long, courageous battle with prostate cancer. Beloved husband of Gloria. Devoted father of Nancy Baione, Marylinda Schoifet, Geralyn, Michael and Kenneth Paulsen. Survived by eleven gran
 RAUKIND-Morty. A man of many virtues and triumphs. Born in Dallas Texas, May 29th, 1934. It was my joy to have been his friend and lover for over 30 years. Morty will be missed by all who knew him, family, friends and business associates. Morty was a special man with great compassion and fo
 REPETTI-Peter J. The partners and associates of Fulbright & Jaworski LLP are deeply saddened by the passing of Peter J. Repetti, our esteemed former partner, colleague and friend, whose advise and counsel were often sought, willingly given and greatly appreciated. We are most thankful for t
 SCHWARTZBERG-Jack. An advocate for liquor salesmen and distillery workers, died August 24, 2000 at the Hallendale Rehabilitation Center. He was 90. A labor leader and champion of workers' rights, Mr. Schwartzberg served 25 years as Vice President of the International Distillery Wine and All
 SENK-Norman. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Marjorie Miller, President Steven Merkel, Cantor Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 SHERR-Abraham I. On August 25, 2000, at age 90. Beloved husband of the late Jean F. Sherr. Loving father of Rita, Barbara and Alan. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Sunday, 11:30 AM. Interment to follow at Salem Fields Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may b
 WEISSMAN-Howard Stanford, 81. Died August 16 in Durham, N.C. A native of New York City, he relocated in Durham in 1994 from Vieques, P.R. Mr. Weissman was a publicist in NY. Mr. Weissman is survived by three children, six grandchildren. Memorials to the Jewish Family Service, 3700 Lyckan Pk
 WILLIAMS-Hugh B., 69. August 4, 2000 in Rock Hall, MD. His friendship and brilliance will be deeply missed by his friends, IBM colleagues and classmates (Harvard, '51) and his love and devotion by his wife, Gwyn, seven children, two grandchildren and two sisters.       
 Peter John Repetti, a retired law partner of the international firm of Fulbright & Jaworski, died Thursday at a hospital in Neptune, N.J. He was 82 and had homes in Spring Lake and Short Hills, N.J. He suffered from a long illness, his family said. Mr. Repetti, a corporate l
 Sir Lynden O. Pindling, the prime minister of the Bahamas for 25 years whose reputation and relationship with the United States were marred by unresolved accusations of protecting drug traffickers, died yesterday at his home in Nassau. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, aides
 Bunny Austin, an outstanding English player who introduced shorts to tennis, died Saturday in a nursing home in Coulsdon, England. He was 94 years old. Short pants or long, Austin was one of the world's highest-ranked players in the decade before World War II. He and the more celebr
 Douglas Allen Woody, a former bassist for the Allman Brothers Band and a spin-off group, Gov't Mule, died on Saturday at the Marriott Courtyard motel in Queens. He was 44. The cause was unknown, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner's office. An a
 Lancelot Ware, a British barrister  who was the co-founder of Mensa, the society for intellectually gifted people, died on Aug. 15 in a nursing home in Surrey, England. He was 85. Mr. Ware became interested in unusually bright people when his father died, leaving him to care for his
 Sir Lynden O. Pindling, the prime minister of the Bahamas for 25 years whose reputation and relationship with the United States were marred by unresolved accusations of protecting drug traffickers, died on Saturday at his home in Nassau. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, aid
 FARRELLY-Reverend Thomas J. Son of Thomas and Josephine Farrelly, loving brother of Ann Morris and uncle of Robert, JoAnn, Eileen and Maureen, grand-uncle of Justine and Erin. Ordained priest of the Archdiocese of New York in 1961, went to the Lord on August 25, 2000. He served as Associate
 GIORDANO-Ned. Beloved husband of Linda and father of Joan and Catherine. Passed away suddenly on Friday, August 25, 2000. The quintessential husband and father, Ned was deeply devoted to his family, the most important people in his life. A devout Roman Catholic, member of St. Paul's Church 
 RAVKIND-Morty. A man of many virtues and triumphs. Born in Dallas, Texas, May 29th, 1934. It was my joy to have been his friend and lover for over 30 years. Morty will be missed by all who knew him, family, friends and business associates. Morty was a special man with great compassion and f
 Frederick C. Bock, a retired scientific researcher who piloted one of the planes monitoring the drop of the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, Japan, in August 1945, died on Friday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 82. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Bock flew a plane
 BOYD-William F., DDS. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Nassau County Dental Society mourn the death of Dr. William F. Boyd, on August, 27, 2000. Dr. Boyd was a past president of the Society (1976) and served as its Executive Director from 1990 to 1998. His good humor, gentle manner a
 CARBERRY-James John, 74, Professor Emeritus, University of Notre Dame, of Brooklyn, NY, on August 27. Carberry, a renowned Chemical Engineering scientist, provided both Notre Dame and the Engineering communities with vision and foresight for more than forty years. Professor Carberry is surv
 DeBOTTON-Gilbert. The Weizmann Institute of Science deeply mourns the suddenly passing of Gilbert DeBotton, the stalwart benefactor and member of The Executive Council, a prominent member of The Board of Governors, and its Former Deputy Chairman, President of The European Committee of The W
 GOLDSMITH-Jechiel Meir, Rabbi. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the father of our Gabbai Rishon, Rabbi Sheldon Goldsmith and extends to him and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 KAYSER-Edward R., Ph.D. Thirty-year resident of Yorktown Heights. Died August 26 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York City. He was 68 years old. He is survived by his wife Ruth, daughter Elaine and brother Thomas. Donations may be made to the Christian Brothers Institute, St. Jo
 LOBELL-Louis. Died on August 27, 2000; beloved father of Sharon Lobell Comiteau, Arline Lobell Zeldman, Bonnie Bello and Ian Ross Lobell. Beloved grandfather of Robin, Lauren, Jennifer, Chad, Michael, Kristin, and Jason. Greatgrandfather of Zachary, Alexandra, and Juliana Rose. He will be m
 MAYER-Robert G. On Saturday August 26th, 2000, of Chatham Township, NJ, formerly of West Orange, NJ, and Brooklyn, NY. Husband of June Driscoll Mayer and the late Shirley S. Mayer. Father of Robert G. Mayer and J. Ridgeley Weinberg. Grandfather of Ian C., Bret N. and Lyndsey A. Mayer. Relat
 MORRIS-Timothy Mark. Age 47, of Armonk, NY, on August 28, 2000. Beloved son of Joan and George, brother of Christopher and Brian, uncle to Trevor. A graduate of The University of Virginia School of Architecture and The Yale Graduate School of Architecture, he practiced with selected archite
 O'GORMAN-Michael Patrick. Age 57. Died at home Saturday, August 26, 2000 following a long, courageous battle with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Beloved brother of Maureen O'Gorman Wasserman & James M. O'Gorman. Survived by nieces Maura O'Gorman Doerr, Patricia O'Gorman Jepsen, and Denise Wa
 ROOME-Norman S. MD. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their sorrow at the passing of Norman S. Roome, MD, a distinguished member of our Department of Surgery for 27 years. A gifted diagnostician and skilled surgeon, Dr. Roome was highly respected by his 
 SEDGWICK-The Reverend Harold Bend, of Boston and Lexington, MA, formerly of NYC, on August 27, 2000. Uncle of Emily Sedgwick Bagwill of Middletown, RI, Catherine Sedgwick Sanders of Cumberland Foreside, ME, Pamela Gibson Farrar of Richmond, VA and Alice Gibson Stothers of Los Gatos, CA. Bro
 ZIMMERMAN-Max. August 27, 2000, in his 90th year. Devoted son, sibling, husband of the late Kate, father of Rita, and the late Joel, grandfather of Charles and Marian. Imbued with a love of, and respect for the young, as well as deeply involved in a life-long quest for social and economic j
 Bernard Krainis, a noted recorder player and a founding member of the New York Pro Musica Antiqua and the Aston Magna Foundation for Music, two pioneering ensembles for the performance of early music on period instruments, died on Aug. 18 at his home in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 75.   
 Gilbert de Botton, a Swiss banker who helped change the way the wealthy manage their money and became a significant figure in the London worlds of modern art and old-book collecting, died Saturday at his house in the South of France. He was 65. In 1983, after moving from Zurich to L
 CASS-Eli. Of North Miami, Florida, formerly Brooklyn. Loving father of Russell and Donald, and grandfather of Susan Cass. Passed away after a short illness on August 29. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the United Cerebral Palsy Foundation where Eli spent time volunteering his s
 CHANSKY-Daniel, M.D.-The Queens County Psychiatric Society mourns the loss of its esteemed member and past president and extends heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family.       
 De BOTTON-Gilbert. The Board and staff of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are saddened by the death of longtime friend and great supporter, Gilbert de Botton. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Janet and the entire family. Maureen Cogan Chairman, Int'l Council, IM James S. Snyder Anne & Jer
 GLIMM-James York. Dr. Glimm, a former Garden City, NY. resident, passed away on August 20, 2000, at home in Milerton, PA., after a heroic battle with colon cancer. He was 58 years old and a son of James M. & Dorothy York Glimm. Dr. Glimm is survived by his wife, Marjorie (Kuentz-Hoffman), h
 KRAL-Michael. Age 80, of Redhook, NY, on August 11, 2000. Former CEO of Electralloy Corporation, predeceased by his first wife, Mae, and his second wife, Audrey. Memorial Service on September 15, 2000, at 9:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 81st Street and Madison Avenue.       
 LOBELL-Louis. Died on August 27, 2000; beloved father of Sharon Lobell Comiteau, Arline Lobell Zeldman, Bonnie Bello and Ian Ross Lobell. Beloved grandfather of Robin, Lauren, Jennifer, Chad, Michael, Kristin, and Jason. Greatgrandfather of Zachary, Alexandra, and Juliana Rose. He will be m
 MAULE-Quentin F. Dr. August 30, 1919-March 16, 2000. Of Maryland and Florida. Died in Sarasota Fla. from Lymphoma Chemo complications. Burial was in Sand Springs, Ok., his birthplace. He received a Doctors Degree in Classical Art History from Berkeley and was an authority on Etruscan Bronze
 ROSENBLUM - Ralph. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member Ralph Rosenblum, and offer their deepest sympathy to his wife Lucille, his children and the entire Rosenblum family. Alpine Country Club Harvey Nagin
 SEDGWICK-The Reverend Harold Bend, of Boston and Lexington, MA, formerly of NYC, on August 27, 2000. Uncle of Emily Sedgwick Bagwill of Middletown, RI, Catherine Sedgwick Sanders of Cumberland Foreside, ME, Pamela Gibson Farrar of Richmond, VA and Alice Gibson Stothers of Los Gatos, CA. Bro
 SLONIM-Jay. Died August 29, 2000. Devoted husband to his loving wife, Evelyn. Caring father to his cherished daughter, Jillian, and father-in-law of Larry. Former Assistant U.S. Attorney, Southern District of New York and Special Assistant to the Attorney General. He will be truly missed.  
 SPIVAK-Renee. The NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases, Department for Orthopaedic Surgery mourns the passing of the mother of our respected colleague Jeffrey Spivak. Our heartfelt sympathy to Jeff's father, William, to his sisters Paula and Marcy, and to all members of his family. Joseph D. Zuc
 Arthur F. Anders, an officer of the United States Navy gunboat Panay who took command despite serious wounds after Japanese warplanes attacked it on the Yangtze River in China in 1937, died on Sunday at his home in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. He was 96. Lieutenant Anders, nicknamed Tex,
 Conrad Marca-Relli, an American artist linked to Abstract Expressionism and known for making large patchwork collages of cut pieces of canvas, died Tuesday at his home in Parma, Italy. He was 87. In 1967, when the Whitney Museum of American Art organized a retrospective of Mr. Marca
 Jack Nitzsche, an Oscar-winning songwriter, keyboardist and arranger who worked with musicians like Phil Spector, the Rolling Stones, Neil Young and Miles Davis, died on Friday in Hollywood. He was 63 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause of death was cardiac arrest brought on by a re
 ALTMAN-David. The Trustees of the Hunter College Foundation and the entire College community mourn the loss of David Altman who, along with his wife Floria V. Lasky, was a tireless supporter of the College and its mission of research, education and service. The former chairman of the board 
 BARBALATA-Victor, MD. August 30, 2000. Beloved husband of Milly for 60 years. Father of Jeanne, grandfather of Stephanie, Alexandra and Isabelle and brother-inlaw to Sergiu Comissiona. Born in Romania and graduated from University of Bucharest Medical School in 1940. Arrived in the United S
 BLAUSTEIN-Harriet. On August 30, 2000. Beloved wife of Herbert. Loving mother of Eric Nadel and his wife, Marianne. Step-mother of Gary Alan and his wife, Antoinette, and Ron L. Blaustein and his wife, Estella. Devoted grandmother of Joshua, Emily, Jaime, Ariel, Benjamin, Jacob and Jonathan
 BOYLE-John M. On August 28, 2000. Attorney and former Chief Librarian NYS Supreme Court, World War II veteran and former President of The Knollwood Country Club, Elmsford, NY. Survived by three sons, Judge Denis, John and Bill Boyle, two daughter-inlaws and six grandchildren. Predeceased by
 de BOTTON-Gilbert. It is with sorrow that we note the passing of Gilbert de Botton, a long-time member of MoMA's Chairman's Council. A patron of the arts, he was particularly noted as an outstanding collector of modern and contemporary art, and in the last few years was a moving force in th
 denBROEDER-Frederick Adrian. The Henfield Foundation (of New York City) expresses its profound regret at the death on July 8, 2000 of its Senior Director, Frederick denBroeder of Tucson, AZ. Mr. denBroeder, a well known Art Historian, was particularly praised for his studies of the 18th Cen
 DICKERSON-O. Bruce, M.D. Of New Canaan, CT, a leader in occupational medicine, on August 28, 2000. Survivors include his mother Juanita Baird, his wife Mimi Haggerty Dickerson, a son John Bruce Dickerson, a brother Lt. Colonel I. Wayne Dickerson and a sister Rita Shalton. Memorial service S
 EDELMAN-Lillian. On August 30, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Loving mother of Howard and his wife Brigitte and Fred and his wife Emily. Devoted grandmother of Jody, Michael, Jonathan and Jill. Great-grandmother of Billie, Joseph, Roan and Clea. Services Friday 1 PM, at ''The Rivers
 GOLDSMITH-Rabbi Jechiel Meir. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with great sadness the passing of Rabbi Jechiel Meir Goldsmith, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Rabbinic Chaplain Sheldon Goldsmith, an esteemed member of the Department of Pastoral Care
 GRAY-Leon. Passed away Aug. 6, 2000. Leon was a consummate gentleman, a man of integrity and a very close, personal friend. May he rest in peace. Barry Tenzer and Family       
 JONES-Harry H. Of Sun Valley, Idaho, formerly of Short Hills, NJ. on August 29, 2000, husband of Kathleen Jones (nee McCord), father of Robert C., Julie J. Moore, Cynthia K. Jones, Amy J. Hill and Susan J. McKeon, step-father of Gigi Welsh, John and Reid Welsh, also survived by a brother Ca
 JUNGREIS-Theodore, 75. Died on Saturday, August 26, 2000 in New York, of cardiac arrest. He is survived by his loving wife, Loretta, his three children and their spouses, five grandchildren, his sole surviving brother, Irving, his wife's family, numerous nieces and nephews and their childre
 MURRAY-Cyril. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our former esteemed member, Cyril Murray. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Nesta, and their family. Richard Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary
 ROOT-Clifford D. Thelen Reid & Priest LLP mourns the loss of a friend and colleague. Cliff was a leader of the public utility bar. He served as managing partner of the former Reid & Priest for nine years. Cliff was known for his negotiating skills, sense of humor, incisive intellect and pho
 SALOP-Arnold M., M.D. The Board of Directors, Medical Staff, Administration, hospital staff, friends and community of Phelps Memorial Hospital Center mourns the passing of one of its most distinguished physicians, Dr. Arnold M. Salop. An Internist who specialized in Cardiology, Dr. Salop wa
 SCHWARTZ-Sam passed away at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City on August 30, 2000 after a prolonged illness. Loving father of Sheila Paulos and grandfather to Leah Paulos and Daniel Paulos, father-in-law of John Allen Paulos. Beloved companion of Marsha Engelsher. Jean Gibenstein his wife 
 STADER-Robert P. Of Middletown, NJ, and Nantucket, MA, died suddenly on Monday, August 28th. He is survived by his wife Ann, daughter Elizabeth, son Rob and his wife Tammy. For more information contact John E. Day Funeral Home of 85 Riverside Avenue, Red Bank, New Jersey. For details call 1
 TAYLOR-Donald Mackay. Died suddenly in Venice, Italy, in the early morning hours of August 27. He was 50 years old. ''Mackay,'' as an actor, polyglot and world traveler, touched many people with his courageous, kind and enormous spirit. His sparkling presence will remain unforgettable. He i
