 Dimitri Hadzi, an internationally known sculptor whose most famous work is at once mythic and modernist, died on April 16 in Boston. He was 85 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was kidney failure, his wife, Cynthia, said. At his death, Mr. Hadzi was emeritus professor 
 Dr. Jean A. Bernard, a pioneering French hematologist who diagnosed the cancer that the shah of Iran kept secret for many years, and that ultimately sent him to an American hospital in a chain of events that led to the Tehran hostage crisis of 1979-81, died at his home in Paris on April 17.
 Grady McWhiney, a historian who called his fellow Southerners ''crackers'' in influential books and articles, then explained that this was a compliment to the glorious Celtic heritage he said they shared, died on April 18 at his home in Abilene, Tex. He was 77. Causes included cance
 Col. James B. Swindal, the Air Force One pilot who flew John F. Kennedy's body back to Washington in the hours after his assassination in Dallas, died Tuesday at a hospital in Cocoa Beach, Fla. He was 88. The cause was heart failure after complications from a broken hip, said his so
 John Kenneth Galbraith, the iconoclastic economist, teacher and diplomat and an unapologetically liberal member of the political and academic establishment he often needled in prolific writings for more than half a century, died Saturday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97. 
 GIATTINO--Rosario P. Jr. Also known as Russ. Died on April 28, 2006, at age 65 after a year long valiant battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife of 42 years, Jill, and his adored daughter, Gabrielle, by his sisters, Catherine (Louis), Millie (Angelo), Anna (Bill), 
 TROWBRIDGE -- Alexander B. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and members of The Conference Board, we are deeply saddened by the death of Alexander B. Trowbridge, who served as our President from 1970 to 1976. Sandy is remembered with great respect and affection as our leader and friend. We
 LACOVARA--Dr. Peter J. Remembered with greatest love and pride for all that he meant to us. Your Family       
 Pramoedya Ananta Toer, who chronicled Indonesia's battle for independence against the Dutch in a quartet of sharply drawn novels composed in prison, died Sunday at the family home here. He was 81. Mr. Pramoedya, who was known by his first name, had been suffering from complications 
 Wolfgang Unzicker, a German judge and chess grandmaster who ranked among the world's top 50 players for almost two decades, died April 20 while on vacation in Portugal. He was 80 and lived in Munich. The cause was heart failure, according to the obituary in the newspaper Süddeutsch
 Heinz Poll, a choreographer and a co-founder of the Ohio Ballet, died on Sunday at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 80. The cause was kidney disease, said Fran Schaul, a friend. Mr. Poll and Tom Skelton, the theater and dance lighting designer who was Mr. Poll's c
 Jean-François Revel, a prolific philosopher, writer and journalist who summoned the classical polemical weapons of Voltaire and Montaigne, including humor, irony and surprise, to illuminate subjects from French cuisine to French anti-Americanism, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 82.      
 Joseph S. Iseman, a New York lawyer and educator who worked with Vladimir Nabokov, Robert Motherwell, National Educational Television and Bennington College, where he memorably stepped in as acting president in 1975, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 89
 BENZAK--Louis, who had a 45 year career on Wall Street and co-founded the investment management firm Spears, Benzak, Salomon and Farrell, died Thursday at this home in Water Mill, NY. He was 66. Born and raised in Bethlehem, PA, Benzak attended Penn State University. He graduated from there
 CAPLAN--David Isaac. Died April 24, 2006 at the age of 77, at Delray Beach, Florida. Private funeral services were held at Eternal Light Cemetery, officiated by Rabbi David Hoffman. Survived by Sue Wimmershof-Caplan, his wife of forty years, a sister, Abigail Beutler of Nashua, New Hampshir
 FEINER--Irwin, also known as Fin, died on May 1, 2006. He will be missed by his beloved wife, Elizabeth, children, Steven (Kathy), Andrea (Andrew), Scott (Connie), and grandchildren, Isabel, Julia and Luke. May he rest in peace and forever in the hearts and minds of all those he loved and a
 GALBRAITH--John Kenneth. It is with deep sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the passing of John Kenneth Galbraith. With a towering intellect, sharp wit, voracious curiosity, and gentle manner, he left his mark on the academic community, on international affairs, an
 SAFFIAN--Marvin M. Died peacefully April 30. Devoted husband of Kathy, father of Sarah, Max & Rachel, fatherin-law of Charles Leerhsen. Calling hours Wednesday May 3, 2-4 and 7-9 P.M., Frank E. Campbell, Madison and 81st Street. We'll remember him and smile.       
 WARNER--Jordan S., 77. Of Boca Raton, Florida, peacefully on April 30. Beloved husband of Harriet and the late Barbara. Cherished and devoted father of Faith (Joe), Dean (Connie), and Brian (Vicki). Revered and dedicated stepfather of Alan (Linda) & Roxanne (Steven). Loving and proud grandf
 MGRDICHIAN--George. We join his many friends and admirers in mourning the passing of Oud Virtuoso George Mgrdichian. He was a sweet man who made sweet music. We recall with pride the many concerts we presented with him and the joy his life and talent brought to all of us. Erwin Frankel, Ell
 George Haines, a renowned coach who helped develop some of the greatest swimmers of recent decades, including the Olympic champions Mark Spitz and Don Schollander, died Monday in Carmichael, Calif. He was 82. His death was announced by the Santa Clara Swim Club, which he founded. Th
 Louis Rukeyser, the exquisitely tailored and pun-loving television host who helped millions of Americans believe that they could get rich in the stock market, or at least begin to understand it, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 73. He died of multiple myeloma, s
 BENZAK--Louis R. For more than 30 years, Louis Benzak was a key leader of the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Through his skillful and steady management, he nurtured the growth of MDA's investments, providing a sturdy financial safety net for MDA's service and research programs. A national 
 BERNSTEIN--Leonard. At age 73, at home in New York City, surrounded by his books and pictures and reminders of his years of travel. The most loving and generous of men to Carol Schoen, his beloved companion, his dear nephew David Bernstein, David's wife Nirit, their children, Alon & Matan &
 BIER--Dr. Harvey, 66, died at his Delray Beach, FL. home after a long battle with cancer. He was a veterinarian in Centereach, NY for 35 years. He is survived by his loving wife, devoted children and grandchild.       
 HEMMING--J.F. Kerry. On April 30, 2006 of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved husband of 47 years to Marta, devoted father of Philip, his wife Jessica, and adoring grandfather of Ailsa and Felix. Brother of Rex, his faithful companion Dawn, and uncle to Tania and Rachel. Brother-in-law of Roman Hildt
 KERNER--Leighton. 29AP. Music Lover. Awarded ASCAP's ''Excellence in Journalism'' twice. Hired by Norman Mailer as Village Voice music critic in 1957 & stayed until 2003. Despite corporate layoffs this 46yr. Voice staffer kept submitting: was writing next week's ''Choices'' at the time of h
 MACDONALD--John Patrick. Lawyer, cherished mentor, dear friend, and beloved companion died at the age of 57 on the 23d of April 2006. His battle with lung cancer was difficult and not successful, but mercifully brief.       
 PLUTCHIK--Robert, Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the passing of its professor emeritus of psychiatry and behavioral sciences. A world-renowned methodologist and national expert in the study of emotions, he joined the Einstein faculty in
 SHAPIRO--Saul A. Of Westchester, NY and Scottsdale, AZ, died May 1 from cancer. A young and vigorous 80, Saul was an avid tennis player, cyclist, hiker and skier; above all, he was a dedicated private pilot. On the cusp of his 80th birthday, Saul piloted his Cessna Skymaster from Danbury, C
 THOMAS--Benjamin (Beryl Tomshinsky): 96 years young, May 2, 2006. Loving husband of Rose. Devoted father of Sheila and Richard, Barbara and Dominic and Steven and Melne. Cherished grandfather of Sharyn, Jill and Andy, Pamela and Michael and Gabriel. Very special greatgrandfather to seven lo
 WARNER--Jordan S., 77. Of Boca Raton, Florida, peacefully on April 30. Beloved husband of Harriet and the late Barbara. Cherished and devoted father of Faith (Joe), Dean (Connie), and Brian (Vicki). Revered and dedicated stepfather of Alan (Linda) & Roxanne (Steven). Loving and proud grandf
 Stanley Hiller Jr., whose childhood passion for vehicles led him to design new technology for helicopters while still a teenager and who went on to become a leader in the industry, died on April 20 at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 81. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's
 Earl Woods, who mentored his son Eldrick and watched him grow into the golfer Tiger Woods, one of the world's most celebrated athletes, died yesterday at his home in Cypress, Calif. He was 74. The cause was cancer, the Tiger Woods Foundation said. Earl Woods had heart problems, diab
 George Mgrdichian, a virtuoso on the oud, the pear-shaped lute common in Middle Eastern music, died on Sunday in the Bronx. He was 71 and lived in Wappingers Falls, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said his brother, Roger. In solo recitals, dozens of albums and collaborations with
 Leighton Kerner, a longtime classical music critic for The Village Voice, died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Dorita. He had a stroke earlier in the week. Mr. Kerner, who wrote music reviews for The Voice
 BENZAK--Louis R. For more than 30 years, Louis Benzak was a key leader of the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Through his skillful and steady management, he nurtured the growth of MDA's investments, providing a sturdy financial safety net for MDA's service and research programs. A national 
 BERNSTEIN--Leonard. At age 73, at home in New York City, surrounded by his books and pictures and reminders of his years of travel. The most loving and generous of men to Carol Schoen, his beloved companion, his dear nephew David Bernstein, David's wife Nirit, their children, Alon & Matan &
 FLOWERREE--Robert E., a long time resident of Oregon and a retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Georgia-Pacific Corporation, died of leukemia on May 1, 2006 in Portland, Oregon at age 85. He served as a Director of Chase Manhattan Bank, Georgia-Pacific Corporation, Georgia Gulf C
 FUSCO--Raymond P. On May 3, 2006. Best friend and true love to Barbara. Affectionate, patient, and fun-loving father to Christina & Joseph Fallon, Alexandra & Joseph Savino, and Sarah Fusco. Survived by his mother, Marie Carmel Fusco, his brother, Edward, and sisters, Mariann Hayes and Barb
 HAUGEN--Thomas C., 73, died May 2, 2006 in Princeton, NJ. Spent his career in publishing in New York City and Philadelphia. Visitation on Friday, May 5, 2006, 7-9PM, The Mather-Hodge Funeral Home, 40 Vandeventer Ave, Princeton, NJ. In lieu of flowers contributions to American Cancer Society
 HOULIHAN--Thomas P. Of Pearl River, NY, died on April 30, 2006. He was 50 years old. Assumma-Shankey Funeral Home, Pearl River, NY 10965; 845-735-4849.       
 JORDANO--Don R., 82, of Murray Hill, NYC, died suddenly at home on Wednesday, April 26. A mass will be celebrated 11am on Saturday May 6th in the Church of the Visitation, Brick, NJ. An Air Force veteran of WW II, he was a recipient of the Purple Heart and Silver Star with two Oak Leaf Clus
 KERNER LEIGHTON New York City Opera joins the Classical Music world in mourning the passing of our respected colleague and dear friend. As longtime classical music critic, of the Village Voice and free lance writer, he demonstrated rare and unfailing integrity and enthusiasm. His constant a
 KERNER--Leighton. 29AP. Music Lover. Awarded ASCAP's ''Excellence in Journalism'' twice. Hired by Norman Mailer as Village Voice music critic in 1957 & stayed until he was fired in 2003. Despite corporate lay-offs this 46yr. Voice staffer kept submitting: he was writing next week's ''Choice
 LEYFELL--Aleksander, age 94, in Cambridge, MA, on May 3rd, 2006. Born in Ostrog, Poland. Aleksander Leyfell fled on foot to the East when Hitler's army invaded Poland. He returned to Poland after World War II and joined the Diplomatic Service, and was posted to Bern, Paris, The Hague, and T
 MACDONALD--John Patrick. Lawyer, cherished mentor, dear friend, and beloved companion died at the age of 57 on the 23d of April 2006. His battle with lung cancer was difficult and not successful, but mercifully brief.       
 RANDOLPH--Francis F., Jr. Age 78 of New York City and Ridgefield, Connecticut, died on May 1, 2006. Survived by his wife, Catherine; his daughters, Sarah T. Randolph and Anne P. Randolph; his stepdaughter, Leslie Patel; his son-in-law, Sanjay Patel; and their daughters, Alisha and India; hi
 ROSENBLATT--David. Son of Bernard and Gertrude, died April 21 in Bangor, ME, at 87 yrs. He received the first doctorate in physics from the Technion in Haifa, Israel and went on to work in experimental physics at Brookhaven National Lab and to head the U.S. Army's PittmanDunn Laboratory. He
 RUKEYSER--Louis Richard. Louis Rukeyser, the pioneering financial journalist and broadcaster, died May 2 in Greenwich, Connecticut, at age 73 of multiple myeloma. Born in New York City, Mr. Rukeyser graduated from Princeton in 1954. He served in the U.S. Army in Germany and spent 11 years w
 SHAPIRO--Saul A. Of Westchester, NY and Scottsdale, AZ, died May 1 from cancer. A young and vigorous 80, Saul was an avid tennis player, cyclist, hiker and skier; above all, he was a dedicated private pilot. On the cusp of his 80th birthday, Saul piloted his Cessna Skymaster from Danbury, C
 THOMAS--Benjamin (Beryl Tomshinsky): 96 years young, May 2, 2006. Loving husband of Rose. Devoted father of Sheila and Richard, Barbara and Dominic and Steven and Melne. Cherished grandfather of Sharyn, Jill and Andy, Pamela and Michael and Gabriel. Very special greatgrandfather to seven lo
 YOSKOWITZ--Jay. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) are stunned and saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of our much-loved and respected colleague, Jay Yoskowitz, senior vice president/campaign. Jay's keen mind and his warmth, humor, character and lifetime
 Boris Koytchou, a colorful contract bridge player who represented France and later the United States in major international competitions, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 86 and had lived in New York for more than 50 years. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Koytc
 Harold Levitt, known as Bunny, who in 1935 sank 499 consecutive free throws in a basketball contest and traveled with the Harlem Globetrotters demonstrating his shooting prowess, died on Sunday in Ocala, Fla. He was 96. His death was announced by his wife, Edith. Levitt, who
 FUSCO--Raymond P. On May 3, 2006. Best friend and true love to Barbara. Affectionate, patient, and fun-loving father to Christina & Joseph Fallon, Alexandra & Joseph Savino, and Sarah Fusco. Survived by his mother, Marie Carmel Fusco, his brother, Edward, and sisters, Mariann Hayes and Barb
 GOLDMAN--Julius C. Died May 3. The center of our family, beloved husband of 64 years of Mickey, devoted father of Carol and Alan, Dorrie and Jeffrey, loving Papa of Katie and Jonathan, Matthew, Heather and Seth and Nina. His beautiful spirit lives in us all.       
 MOSER--Alexander S. On May 3, 2006. Beloved husband of Belle. Devoted father of Nathan, Franklin and Joel; father-in-law of Rita, Caroline and Wednesday. Cherished grandfather of Rachel, Aledandra, Allison, Katharine, Michelle, Claire, Steven, Julia and Eliot. His kindness, wisdom and ingen
 RASEMAN--Chad J, 87 of Old Field L.I., on April 27, 2006, after a brief illness. Born in Detroit MI, August 29, 1918, Son of Carl Raseman of Detroit and Lorraine Hickey Raseman, also of Detroit, and is pre-de ceased Elizabeth Harding Rasemen, the mother of his children, he is survived by hi
 Edward R. Broida, an architect and real estate developer who retired at 40 so he could devote his fortune to his passion, collecting contemporary art, died on April 14 at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his wife, Gisele Galante Broida, said. On We
 BLINDER--Abe L. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member, Abe Blinder, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Richard D. Katcher, Pres. Neda Birbrower, Secy.       
 LYNCH--J. Brent, who had a 40-year business career in regional transportation and was Chairman and owner of Hampton Jitney, Inc, died Friday morning, May 5, at his home in Quogue, NY, surrounded by his family. He was 66 years old. Mr. Lynch is survived by his wife of 38 years, Jered Ann Lyn
 Burt Kerr Todd, an entrepreneur, adventurer and international deal maker whose quixotic dreams and outlandish schemes more than occasionally paid off, as when he introduced the postage stamp to the tiny kingdom of Bhutan or resold the gently used Rolls-Royces of down-at-the-heels maharajas 
 ANALO--Christopher C. On Tuesday, April 11, 2006, age 48 of O'Hara Township, PA. Beloved husband of Helen Udekwu Analo; beloved father of Karl and Isabelle; loved and respected brother of Nnabuenyi, Ifeanyi, Josephine and Felicitas; son of the late Edward and Azumdialo Joan Analo. Husband, 
 BIER--Dr. Harvey, 66, died at his Delray Beach, FL. home after a long battle with cancer. He was a veterinarian in Centereach, NY for 35 years. He is survived by his loving wife, devoted children and grandchild.       
 CENKL--Bohumil. O Waban, MA, part-time resident of Harthaven, Martha's Vineyard and Mittersill, NH, born in the Czech Republic in 1934, passed away on May 4th. Husband of Jirina, father of Michal and Pavel and their spouses Kim and Jen, grandfather of Orion, brother to Franta. A Professor o
 FAGIN--Leon. On May 5, 2006. Born with ''Mazel'' in 1911, leaves behind children Jay, Neal, Linda and Tina. Fatherin-law of Peter, Eileen, Andrea and Perry. Cherished grandfather of Hannah, Joshua, Benjamin, Kyle, Ike and Dina. Companion Phyllis Schenker and friend Sylvia Baer. Leon travele
 FELLOWS--Robert V. 92. Beloved brother of Estelle Abrams Rothwell. Kind loyal uncle, great-uncle, friend. We will miss him.       
 FISHBEIN-Harry, 89, on May 4th, 2006, beloved husband of 66 years to Norma. Devoted father to Bob, and Father-InLaw to Laurie. Devoted Grandfather to Jan, Ken, Ka ra, Eve, and Beth. Devoted Great Grandfather to Lind say, Stephie, Will, Danny, and Ben. Devoted brother to Ber nice Meisels. Hi
 GORIN--Dr. Leonard J., DDS, 88, of Monroe, died May 3, 2006. Son of the late Louis & Anna (Hottenstien) Gorin, he was born in Brooklyn, December 16, 1917. In addition to his private practice on 72nd St. in Manhattan, he was the clinical director of dental services for the NYC Fire Dept., at
 JOYCE--Richard. Of Bayside, N.Y., born in New York City, raised in Ballyconlaught, Headford, County Galway, Ireland, passed May 4, 2006. U.S. Army war veteran saw service in Korea and Japan. Highly decorated Homicide Detective of the NYPD. Former President of the United Irish Counties and t
 LYNCH--J. Brent, who had a 40-year business career in regional transportation and was Chairman and owner of Hampton Jitney, Inc, died Friday morning, May 5, at his home in Quogue, NY, surrounded by his family. He was 66 years old. Mr. Lynch is survived by his wife of 38 years, Jered Ann Lyn
 METZGER--Morton. Boca Raton, FL, died peacefully on May 6 surrounded by his adoring family, just before his 89th birthday. Loving husband to Phyllis, adored father of Buddy (Julie) and Karen Ganz (Robert Sutner), devoted grandfather of Beth and David Ganz, Dina Levi (David) and Michael Metz
 MUNDT--John J., 49. Of New York City, NY died Thursday May 4, 2006 at his residence. He was employed by Aon Corp. in New York City.       
 RUKEYSER--Louis. PBS and its member stations mourn the loss of Louis Rukeyser. Louis wasn't just a pioneer of financial journalism. He also was an icon of public television. His charm, elegance and brilliant mind made him one of a kind. We extend our deep condolences to his wife, Alexandra,
 SADOVE--Aaron Solomon. Age 88, passed away April 28, 2006. Deeply beloved and revered father of Samuel and father-in-law of Jill Lankshear of Jamesport, New York and father of Joseph and father-in-law of Eugenia (''Jenny'') Genin of Brooklyn, NY, and father of daughter Allison Labine of Orl
 SCHOTLAND--Dr. Richard M. Professor Emeritus of Atmospheric Physics at the University of Arizona died April 24, 2006 after a gallant battle with Multiple Myeloma. Dr. Schotland was born February 11, 1927 in Irvington, NJ. He earned a doctorate in meteorology at MIT in 1952. A Professor of M
 SHAPIRO--Saul A. Of Westchester, NY and Scottsdale, AZ, died May 1 from cancer. A young and vigorous 80, Saul was an avid tennis player, cyclist, hiker and skier; above all, he was a dedicated private pilot. On the cusp of his 80th birthday, Saul piloted his Cessna Skymaster from Danbury, C
 TIFFANY--Robert McClellan. ''Tiff'' died on May 5, 2006. Born in Syracuse, NY, on Oc tober 14, 1919. He graduated in 1941 from Amherst Col lege. He served as a bombar dier on a B-17 in WWII and was a POW for 14 months in Barth, Germany. He was awarded the Air Medal with seven Oak Leaf Clust
 ELLINWOOD--George Webster, Jr. April 22, 1934-May 10, 2005. Warmly loved. Fondly remembered. Fervently missed. His easy smile still radiates before his loving family.       
 Drexel A. Sprecher, a lawyer who researched, plotted strategy and argued cases at the Nuremberg trials of Nazi war criminals, including presenting the case that convicted the head of the Hitler Youth movement, died on March 18 in Washington. He was 92 and a resident of Chevy Chase, Md.     
 BLINDER--Abe, L, A prom inent publishing executive who spent 50 years at Esquire Magazine, and was its pres ident and chairman, died Fri day, May 5th after a brief ill ness, he was 96 years old, Mr. Blinder is survived by his sons Henry (wife Ruth) and Jon, granddaughter Hanna, companion Ba
 DiFEO--Sam C. of Spring Lake, NJ formerly of Jersey City, founder of the DiFeo Automobile Dealerships, on Friday, May 5, 2006. Beloved husband of Julia (nee Massano). Devoted father of Joseph, Denis and Samuel DiFeo, and Cecilia Iannaccone. Dear brother of Genevieve Luisi, Esther Blasucci, 
 FAGIN--Leon. On May 5, 2006. Born with ''Mazel'' in 1911, leaves behind children Jay, Neal, Linda and Tina. Fatherin-law of Peter, Eileen, Andrea and Perry. Cherished grandfather of Bruce, Jill, Sean and Lauren. Greatgrandfather of Hannah, Joshua, Benjamin, Kyle, Ike and Dina. Companion Phy
 FREEDMAN--Benjamin, age 82, of Paramus, NJ and Boynton Beach, Fl. Beloved husband of Betty, devoted father of Paul and Rob and Helene. Dear brother of Morris Freedman and Pauline Heisman. Loving grandfather of Jennifer, Rachel, Matthew and Joshua. He served as an army corporal in the infant
 HARLOWE--Norman C. On May 7, 2006. Loving husband of Carol. Devoted father of Julian N. Harlowe and his wife Maureen. Also survived by two grandchildren. He was a prominent attorney in New York City. Veteran of WWII. He was a 32nd Degree Mason in the Continental Masonic Lodge. Funeral servi
 JENNY--Morris. Beloved and cherished husband of Gail. Devoted father of Charles and Robert. Big brother of Eli. Brother-in-law of Shirley and Sam. Adored stepdad of Kellie and Paul Gersh. Fabulous Grandpa to Ali and Andrew Scheck and Gary Gersh. He was loved by his many nieces and nephews. 
 MUNDT--John J., 49. Of New York City, NY died Thursday May 4, 2006 at his residence. He was employed by Aon Corp. in New York City.       
 USSAK--Robert. Of Edison on Saturday, May 6, 2006, age 89. Loving husband of the late Eileen Ussak; devoted father of Michael of Edison, NJ and the late Richard Ussak; father-in-law of AnnMarie Ussak of Edison; cherished grandfather of Marianne and Amanda; beloved uncle of Celia, Lillian an
 Grant McLennan, one of the founders and leaders of the influential Australian rock band the Go-Betweens, died on Saturday at his home in Brisbane. He was 48. His death was announced by a spokesman for Yep Roc, the Go-Betweens' American record label. No cause was given. The G
 Jim Delsing, an outstanding defensive outfielder who played 10 seasons in the American League but was remembered mostly for his role in baseball's most famous stunt, died Thursday at his home in Chesterfield, Mo. He was 80. The cause was complications of cancer, said his wife, Rosea
 Karel Appel, an internationally renowned Dutch painter whose impetuous, color-laden canvases were among the most vibrant hallmarks of the postwar European art movement known as Cobra, which he helped found, died on Wednesday at his home in Zurich. He was 85. Mr. Appel's death was an
 BELL--John H. Longtime advertising executive, John H. Bell passed away May 8 in Saratoga Springs, NY after a long illness. In 1949, Mr. Bell began his storied advertising career with Sunset Magazine. He then served as National Advertising Director for both This Week Magazine and McCall's Ma
 BLINDER--Abe L. The Board and Staff of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York mourn the passing of our beloved Board Member, Abe Blinder. We were blessed that Abe served on our Board for twenty-two years, eventually being elected Treasurer and Vice-Chair. He brought to the organization 
 HARLOWE--Norman C. On May 7, 2006. Loving husband of Carol. Devoted father of Julian N. Harlowe and his wife Maureen. Also survived by two grandchildren. He was a prominent attorney in New York City. Veteran of WWII. He was a 32nd Degree Mason in the Continental Masonic Lodge. Funeral servi
 ITKIN -Sam, 92 The last of the Itkin brothers, died on May 6, 2006, one day after his 92nd birthday, in Pompano Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of 60 years to the late Edythe, he leaves sons Larry and David, daughters-in-law Cheryl and Valerie, grandchildren Nicole and Stephanie, Ben Sawyer
 KAUFMAN--George T. A Holocaust survivor and refugee from the 1956 Hungarian uprising, passed away from heart failure on Sunday, May 7, 2006. Mr. Kaufman is survived by his wife of 60 years, Mary Kaufman (nee Politzer), also a survivor of the concentration camps. Mr. Kaufman had a long and s
 LADER--LAWRENCE on May 7th, 2006 at 86. Writer & political activist. Founding chair of National Abortion Rights Action League & Pres ident of Abortion Rights Mobilization. Larry devoted him self to legalizing & preserving abortion rights & making RU486 available in the United States. He wil
 LEWIS--Morris ''Mal'' Age 88 of Tampa, FL. Died May 7th, 2006. Born in NY, resident of NY until 1973. Preceded in death by his wife Betty, survived by sons Marvin Lewis, Queens, NY and Howard Le wis, Tampa FL, and 7 grand children. Grave side service today (Tues.) 1:00 at the Hungarian Unio
 LICHENSTEIN--Murry. Age 88, a creative, insightful man with an impish wit and loving nature. He was a businessman and artist who founded the Display Distributors Assn. Sorely missed by wife, Lillian, sister Lynn, daughters, Judith and Laura, granddaughters, Isabel and Juliet, and a host of 
 SCHWARTZ - Norman. Be loved husband of Eunice, cherished uncle of Steve Cohen, Luba Starostiak, Elizabeth and Joel Faber and Jennifer and Timothy Blackwell and loving grand uncle of Isabelle, Jordan, Joshua and Lydia passed on May 3rd, 2006. He was born May 2, 1932 and was a retired princip
 STOCK--George Edward, 85. A former bank president in Miami and New Jersey, died Friday, May 5, 2006. The service will be at 6 P.M. EDT Monday at Culley's MeadowWood Funeral Home, Timberlane Road Chapel (850893-4177), with burial next to his parents at Green Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, N.Y. F
 TERMAN--Bruce, Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the tragic, untimely death of its associate professor of medicine (cardiology) and of pathology. An internationally recognized investigator, his findings regarding the molecular regulation o
 Lawrence Lader, a writer who so successfully marshaled his literary and political efforts in support of abortion rights that Betty Friedan, the feminist author, called him the father of the movement, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was colon cancer, his
 BLINDER--Abe L. The Board and Staff of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York mourn the passing of our beloved Board Member, Abe Blinder. We were blessed that Abe served on our Board for twenty-two years, eventually being elected Treasurer and Vice-Chair. He brought to the organization 
 DENVIL--William James Gaskell, 66. While visiting his sister in Melbourne, Australia died on Saturday, May 6 of a heart attack. He leaves a wife Margaret, sons James and Alasdair, a daughter-in-law Shannon & a granddaughter Eliza Claire Campbell Denvil who now live in the United States. Bil
 GERHOLD - Paul. Passed away peacefully at home on May 6, 2006. Paul was a leader in market research for over 60 years. He started his career at the Chicago Mail Order Company in 1938, held top media and research jobs at Lord and Thomas, Foote Cone & Belding, J. Walter Thompson, and then ser
 HERRMAN--Jefferson D. He has gone but his smile, in memory lives on. Naomi and Maks.       
 HOFFER--Paul B., MD. Passed away after a long and courageous battle with Parkinson's Disease. He will be remembered by family and friends as a brilliant researcher and scientist, a devoted physician, swimmer and marathoner, and above all a man of strong character and quiet strength who was 
 JAEGER--Dr. David, 46. Formerly of Franklin Square, NY, died May 8, 2006. A 1978 graduate of Valley Stream North High School, and 1984 graduate of Union College/Albany Medical School, Dr. Jaeger practiced as a physiatrist with New England Neurological Associates until his retirement in 1999
 RUBIN--William (Billy). We are devastated by the loss of our dear friend. We will never forget all our good times together. Honey and Norman, Lynne, June, MaryAnn and Mort, Connie and Allen. $(6$)RUBIN--William. Good-bye, dear friend. We will surely miss you. Rest peacefully, Gayle Morrow a
 WEITHAS--Arthur. The Officers and Members of the So ciety of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Art Weithas. He will be missed by all who knew him. $(6$)WEITHAS--Arthur G., 95, of 262 Thimble Island Rd., Stony Creek, died at his home Sunday May 7, 2006. He is survived b
 A. M. Rosenthal, a Pulitzer Prize-winning foreign correspondent who became the executive editor of The New York Times and led the paper's global news operations through 17 years of record growth, modernization and major journalistic change, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 84. Hi
 Patrick Ntsoelengoe, known as Ace, who left the apartheid-era isolation of sports in South Africa to play soccer in North America for 11 seasons, was found dead in his car on Monday outside a hotel in Lenasia, South Africa, outside Johannesburg. He was 50. The cause of death has not
 BLINDER--Abe L. The Board and Staff of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York mourn the passing of our beloved Board Member, Abe Blinder. We were blessed that Abe served on our Board for twenty-two years, eventually being elected Treasurer and Vice-Chair. He brought to the organization 
 ELLANT--Paul. Died suddenly on May 9, 2006. He was a man of great integrity and warmth who truly appreciated life. He will be profoundly missed. He is survived by his wife Arlene, children Tom and Elissa Ellant Katz, Howard & Jody Ellant Reiter, Jonathan and Devi Ellant and his grandchildre
 ERLICHMAN--Sam. On May 10, 2006, of Englewood Cliffs, NJ. Holocaust survivor. Beloved husband of Cathy. Devoted father of Ira, Sharon & Larry. Loving grandfather of Bobby, Joshua, Jeffrey and Sara Diana. Service on Friday, 12:30 PM, at Wien & & Wien, Hackensack, NJ. He will be remembered as
 GROUEFF--Stephane and Lillian, both of natural causes May 2 and 3, 2006. Mr Groueff wrote Manhattan Project, Crown of Thorns and his autobiography My Odyssey. He was previously NY Bureau Chief for Paris Match, and later with the Embassy of Oman. His wife Lillian was a face model of the 1940
 LADER--Lawrence. NARAL Pro-Choice New York deeply mourns the loss of Lawrence Lader, champion of reproductive rights for all women. A longtime leader and inspiration of the pro-choice movement, he was instrumental in winning New York State's repeal of abortion restrictions in 1970, leading 
 SCHRIER--Sidney. On May 8. Loving husband of Gerry Raker and the late Marjorie. Devoted father of Katherine, Jonathan and Laurie. Dear stepfather of Shelley, Michael, Jim, Virginia and Dan. Delighted grandfather of Matthew, Daniel, Sasha, Anton, Sam, Ben, Katherine, Henry, Celia, Emma and D
 SCHWARTZ--Robert, Sr., Ph.D. Of New York City on May 9, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Dr. Josephine Martin and the late Beatrice Schwartz, grandfather of Matthew, Michael and Alexandra, great-grandfather of Rushman, uncle of Michael and Charles Diaz, father-inlaw of Gail Ross, and frien
 CRISTOFALO--Dr. Vincent J. The officers and Board of Directors of the American Federation for Aging Research deeply mourn the loss of one of its founding board members, joining in 1981 and serving for 25 years. We are grateful for his long standing commitment to aging research, leadership a
 Anthony R. Ameruso, a longtime New York City transportation commissioner who was implicated in a series of ethical lapses that engulfed the mayoralty of Edward I. Koch and shook the foundations of the city's political class, died on April 1. He was 68 and lived in Roslyn, N.Y. The c
 Floyd Patterson, a gentleman boxer who emerged from a troubled boyhood to become the world heavyweight champion, died yesterday at his home in New Paltz, N.Y. He was 71. The cause was prostate cancer and Alzheimer's disease, said a grandson, Kevin McIlwaine. In the 1952 Hels
 BLINDER--Abe L. The Board and Staff of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York mourn the passing of our beloved Board Member, Abe Blinder. We were blessed that Abe served on our Board for twenty-two years, eventually being elected Treasurer and Vice-Chair. He brought to the organization 
 GOLDMAN--Harris. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Harris Goldman. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Frances and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President       
 HERRING -- Robert Almer. The Board of Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the New York School of Interior Design were grateful to have Robert Herring as a member of its community. He was an inspiring member of the faculty and adored by a decade of devoted students. He was also a member of the co
 LORD--Herbert. The partners of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle LLP mourn the passing of our beloved colleague Herbert Lord. Mr. Lord was born in Rockland, Maine on October 9, 1917. He graduated from Bowdoin College and Harvard Law School and was admitted to the bar in 1942. Mr. Lord ro
 ORME--Simon P. Of London and New York, died at home Wednesday, May 10. He leaves behind his wife Cathy and daughters Samantha, Alexandra & Elisa. Services will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to VNSNY Hospice Care, 107 East 70th Street, New York, NY 10021.       
 ROSENTHAL--A.M. The directors, staff and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a dear friend, a legendary journalist and great New Yorker. A. M. Rosenthal was a wise and generous supporter, who believed deeply in our work and wrote thoughtfully and passionately about the issue of dru
 SCHWARTZ--Robert, Sr., Ph.D. Of New York City on May 9, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Dr. Josephine Martin and the late Beatrice Schwartz, grandfather of Matthew, Michael and Alexandra, great-grandfather of Rushman, uncle of Michael and Charles Diaz, father-inlaw of Gail Ross, and frien
 EHRENBERG--Jack. 11/30/ 17-5/12/05. Husband, father, grandfather, friend. A very special man. He is remebered with love and respect.       
 Former Representative G. V. (Sonny) Montgomery, a conservative Democrat from Mississippi who was a staunch voice for the military and the needs of veterans during his 30 years in Congress, died yesterday in his hometown, Meridian. He was 85. His death, of natural causes, came six mo
 John Hicks, a pianist who helped define the mainstream jazz aesthetic of his instrument, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was internal bleeding, said his daughter Naima Hicks. Mr. Hicks, a prolific mainstay of jazz in New York since the late 1960's, gave 
 BLINDER--Abe L. The Board and Staff of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York mourn the passing of our beloved Board Member, Abe Blinder. We were blessed that Abe served on our Board for twenty-two years, eventually being elected Treasurer and Vice-Chair. He brought to the organization 
 EISEN--David. The Members, Board of Governors and Officers of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of a good friend and fellow member of longstanding and extend their deepest sympathies to his son, Larry and the family. Robert Chestnov, President       
 ORME--Simon P. Of London and New York, died at home Wednesday, May 10. He leaves behind his wife Cathy and daughters Samantha, Alexandra & Elisa. Services will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to VNSNY Hospice Care, 107 East 70th Street, New York, NY 10021.       
 A fenced rectangular garden is 10 meters wide and 20 meters long. When one side is moved outward and two other sides are increased in length, the area increases by 40 square meters. What is the fewest number of meters of additional fencing needed to form the larger rectangular garden?      
 James Keogh, a former executive editor of Time magazine and head of the White House speechwriting staff under President Richard M. Nixon, died on Wednesday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 89. The cause was respiratory failure, his wife, Verna Keogh, said. Mr. Keogh, who lived in 
 BASCOM--Howard Joseph. ''Joe''. Died May 4, 2006 in New York City. Born July 6, 1924 in Columbus, OH. Joe served in the Navy during WW II, and received his bachelor of fine arts from Ohio State University. He then taught drawing, painting, and design at The Toledo Art Museum before moving o
 BRICKNER--Richard Pilpel. Age 72, died on May 12, 2006. Survived by his brother, Philip W. Brickner M.D, his sister Marian Brickner of St. Louis, nine nieces and nephews, 14 grand-nieces and nephews and a large circle of outstandingly devoted friends. Memorial service will be announced late
 DANN--David P. Of New York, a principal at William B. Tabler Architects, died February 22, 2006 at age 80. A graduate of Yale, Mr. Dann designed hotels worldwide. Among his projects were the New York Hilton and the Brooklyn Renaissance Plaza. He is survived by his wife, Betts, a brother Ben
 FALK--Max. Died March 4. He was everyone's friend and he will be missed. Come celebrate his life on Saturday, May 20, 2:30 PM, at All Soul's Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue at 80th Street. A reception will follow the the service. In lieu of flowers please contribute to the New York Public Lib
 FRIEDMAN--Edward E., O.D. who practiced optometry in Manahattan for 37 years, died Thursday, May 11 at the age of 60. Dr. Friedman is survived by his wife of 37 years, Victoria Friedman (nee Fox) and daughters Alison and Jillian. He was a beloved brother to Barbara LaSalle, and proud uncle 
 GOOD -- Brian Campbell Good. 45, of Ft. Myers, FL passed away on May 6, 2006. Born June 23, 1960 in Greenwich, CT, he was the son of Barry Campbell Good and Alix Hegeler Segal. Both preceded him in death. Brian graduated from Searing School in 1978. He lived in New York City and Kingston, N
 GORDON--Howard B. Died May 9, 2006 at age 79. Beloved husband of Anita. Adored father of Beth and Michael. Loving father-in-law of Gordon. Cherished grandfather of Jessica. Much loved uncle and brother-in-law. A free thinker known for his humor, a man of honor and dignity of unconditional l
 GORDON--Louis H. A memorial service for Louis H. Gordon, 90, of Millbrook, NY, will be held at The Unitarian Fellowship of Poughkeepsie on May 20, 2006 at 1 P.M. Louis Gordon died on March 25, 2006. A veteran of The Abraham Lincoln Brigade in the Spanish Civil War. He also served in the U.S
 LADER--LAWRENCE on May 7th, 2006 at 86. Writer & political activist. Founding chair of National Abortion Rights Action League & Pres ident of Abortion Rights Mobi lization. Larry devoted him self to legalizing & preserving abortion rights & making RU486 available in the United States. He wi
 MILLER--Daniel W., Ph.D. Psychologist and author, died on May 9 at his home in Brooklyn. Remembered and loved as an original thinker. Survived by his three children and his brother Louis Miller.       
 MONDRE--Martin. Of Hollywood, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away May 12, 2006, at age 87. He is survived by his dear wife of 62 years, Shirley May Gillman, his devoted children Richard and Patricia Mondre of Fort Lauderdale, FL, Marilyn and James Greebel of Roslyn, NY, Judith Mondre 
 NAPOLITANO--John Alexander. Of New York, NY, passed away on May 13, 2006. He was the loving husband of Beth Forman, father of Gabrielle Napolitano-Swift, son of Johanna Napolitano, brother of Joy Elkort and Jeffrey Napolitano, grandfather of Chloe and Dante Swift, uncle to Jacqueline and Za
 NEFF--W. Perry. Of Weston, VT, died on May 11, 2006, in his 79th year. Former Executive Vice President of Chemical Bank. He leaves a wife Mimi, three sons, Terry of Spring Valley, WI, Stewart of Wenham, MA, and Michael of NYC, and a daughter Laura Reaper of Locust Valley, NY; he also leaves
 ORLOW--David Zachary. On May 9, 2006 his serene spirit was released, whole and free. His family and extended family mourn the passing of a generous and enlightened man whose influence has been felt by many. He will be honored with love and appreciation for all times. Donations may be sent t
 PALMER--Dr. Thomas Raymond, 63. Died May 4, 2006 at the University Medical Center in Tucson, AZ from complications of coronary heart disease. He was born in Bronxville, NY April 26, 1943 and was preceded in death by his parents, Dr. Thomas W. Palmer and wife Dolores Koch and his brother Pau
 ROSSUM--Philip E. Died on April 28, 2006. He is survived by his loving wife Sonny, his beloved daughters Ilisa and Meredith, his son-in-laws Da vid and Todd and the loves of his life, his grandchildren Jennifer and Nicole. Also, his children Woody, Cheryl and granddaughter Emmy.       
 SEHAM -- Martin Charles. Martin Charles Seham, a labor attorney who gracefully bridged the chasm between unions and managment, died April 1at Englewood Hospital, Englewood, New Jersey at 73, after a 21-year battle with Parkinson's disease. His death was announced by his son and law partner,
 STORCH--Allen. Age 85, of Palm Coast, FL. A wonderful husband of 60 years and a devoted and caring father. In a life of accomplishment, he was most proud of his children and grandchildren. He was President of his class at St. John's, and remained a keen supporter of that institution long af
 TRAVIS--Martin Bice, Jr. Professor of Political Science and International Law at SUNY-Stonybrook. Former Mayor of Laurel Hollow and a life member of The Council on Foreign Relations, 88, of Laurel Hollow, NY, from Metastatic Laryngeal cancer, April 26. Beloved father of Elizabeth Nichols Mu
 BLATTERFEIN--Louis. New York University College of Dentistry regrets to announce the passing of Dr. Louis Blatterfein, a loyal alumnus and professor emeritus of prosthodontics. Dr. Blatterfein taught at NYU for over 40 years, very likely teaching prosthodontics to more New York dentists tha
 Alexander Zinoviev, a philosopher turned popular author who won wide repute for his savage satires of Soviet society, only to become a surprising apologist for Communism after its demise, died in Moscow on Wednesday. He was 83. The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Olga, told Agence
 CARRINGTON--Dr. John F. Died on May 11, 2006. Graduate of The College of the Holy Cross, Class of 1959. Dr. Carrington practiced orthopedic surgery in Brooklyn, NY, until his retirement. He is survived by his wife Barbara, five children and two grandchildren. Visitation is Monday, 6-9 pm, T
 HERRING -- Robert Almer. The Education Legacy Fund of the New York Metropolitan Chapter of the American Society of Interior Designers mourns the loss of one of our brightest lights. Robert was an Honorary Fellow of the Society and a longtime member of the Governing Committee of the Fund. Hi
 NOLLETTI--James L. ''Jim'', C.C.M. A lifelong Mamaroneck resident died on May 13, 2006. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Anne, his son, James J., and his daughters, Nancy Heinbockel, Elena Skrobacz, and Linda Jackson, ten grandchildren. Former General Manager of the Davenport Club an
 POLITI -- Achilio Francesco ''Francis,'' 95, of Roxbury, VT, died Monday, May 8, 2006, at the Mayo Healthcare in Northfield, VT. He was born in Northfield on March 17, 1911, the son of Emilio and Maria (Ambrosini) Politi. He attended Northfield schools, as well as Eastman College in Poughke
 George Crile, a television news producer who specialized in attacking difficult, controversial subjects, most famously in a documentary for CBS alleging that Gen. William C. Westmoreland and his military colleagues deliberately underestimated enemy troop numbers in the Vietnam War, died yes
 Jaroslav Jan Pelikan, a Yale scholar and historian of religion who interpreted Christian tenets to a vast lay audience in the English-speaking world, died on Saturday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 82. The cause was lung cancer, said his son Michael. A prolific author o
 BOCK--Louis S. Died on May 15, 2006 in the early hours of the morning at the age of 87. Beloved husband of Libby, married for 64 years, father of Barbara Markus of Beverly Hills, CA and Russell Bock of Lexington, MA, grandfather to Shyam, Andrew, Noah and Matthew. Brother to Florence Goldbe
 GINSBERG--William R. Environmentalist, lawyer, activist, father, friend. On May 14, 2006, Bill Ginsberg died at home in his sleep at 75. He is survived by his sons Mark and Josh, their wives Darby and Cathy, his grandchildren Simon, Zachary & Madeleine, his sister Alane Cater, his love and 
 GRAYSON--Dr. Howard Bertram, on Sunday May 14, 2006 age 88. Of Larchmont, NY and Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Blossom. Devoted father of Sandra Grayson (Dr. Perry Garber) and Laurie Grayson Kunkes (Dr. Jeffrey Kunkes). Loving grandfather of Diana, Russell, and Douglas Garber and Cr
 GREEN--Mark S. Of Morris Township, NJ on May 13, 2006 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 57. Mark is survived by his wife of 33 years, Sharon; son Brett M. Green of Hoboken, NJ; daughter Wendi (Green) and her husband Adam Aspes; and grandson Hudson S. Aspes of New York City. He is al
 KOHUT--William (Bill). January, 1963, to May, 2006. Passed peacefully at home on May 10. A gracious and gentle soul, Bill was a lover of life. An ambitious businessman and restaurateur, he was a professional tennis player who gave generously of his time to the youth of New York City. An avi
 KUNITZ--Stanley. The Board and staff of Poets House mourn the passing of our cofounder, poet Stanley Kunitz. We celebrate the extraordinary life of artistry, generosity and integrity that Stanley led over his 100 years. His vision of community inspired Poets House, a home for poets and poet
 OBERMAN--Jerome, Ph.D. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center records with profound sorrow, the passing of our esteemed colleague Jerome Oberman. A man of intellect and principle, Jerry faithfully served the Medical Center for 19 years as a member of the Board. As chairman of ou
 PLATNER--Warren. Architect, of Guilford, died April 17, 2006. He was the husband of Joan Payne Platner and father of Bronson Platner, Jody Platner, Sharon Platner Lincoln & Madeleine Platner Howenstine. Also surviving are 11 grandchildren and two great grandchildren. A celebration of his li
 ROSENTHAL--A.M. The Medical Staff, Board of Directors, and Administration of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center mourn the passing of our dear friend and supporter, A.M. Rosenthal, former Executive Editor of The New York Times. A founding member of the New Yorker's for Brookhaven Me
 SKYDELL--A. Harry. Died May 11, 2006. Pater familias with a twinkle in his eye, Uncle Harry believed in keeping close his ever-growing extended family; and Aunt Rivie made it happen. His concern was genuine; he nurtured, and sometimes needled, as the occasion warranted. He reached out to fa
 TORSNEY--Gerard F. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Gerard F. Torsney, on April 29, 2006. We will greatly miss Gerry's brilliant counsel, wit, and repartee. He was an educated gentleman, whose generosity, compassion and integrity is a loss for all. Gerry was truly the 
 WILLIAMS--Ray. Died May 14 at NYU Medical Center which was a part of most of his life. Ray was the Administrator of the Department of Surgery under Frank Spencer, MD. About 40 years ago when his son Shawn had to tell his classmates what his father's work was, he said, ''My Dad tells doctors
 Stanley Kunitz, who was one of the most acclaimed and durable American poets of the last century and who, at age 95, was named poet laureate of the United States, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 100 and also had a home in Provincetown, Mass. The cause was pneumonia, 
 Jim Lemon, who hit 164 home runs and earned a visit with a box-seat fan named Dwight D. Eisenhower after slugging three consecutive homers in a game for the Washington Senators in 1956, died Sunday at his home in Brandon, Miss. He was 78. The cause was cancer, his son Patrick said. 
 Jiri Frel, a mercurial and eccentric curator who helped build the J. Paul Getty Museum into a major center for Greek and Roman art but resigned after revelations about unscrupulous acquisition practices, died on April 29. He was 82. Officials at Père-Lachaise cemetery in Paris supp
 Lou Carrol, an unknown traveling salesman from Texas whose spontaneous act of generosity one summer day in 1952 -- packing a puppy into a crate and shipping it to two little girls in Washington named Tricia and Julie -- has been credited with altering the course of American history, died on
 Lew Anderson, whose considerable success as a musician, arranger and bandleader paled before the celebrity he achieved as Clarabell the Clown, Howdy Doody's sidekick on one of television's first children's shows, died on Sunday in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 84, but always felt he was ar
 BEMPORAD--Roberto R. Beloved husband of Rita, devoted father of Richard & Helen and daughter Robin. Loving grandfather of Sandy, Jackie and Allison. Services Thursday 10AM at Parkside Chapels, Queens Blvd at 66th Avenue, Forest Hills. $(6$)BEMPORAD -- Roberto R. Congregation Shearith Israel
 BYRNE--Frederick John, 87, died May 2 in Chatham, MA. Mr. Byrne was the former librarian of the Business School Library and of Butler Library at Columbia University. He retired from Columbia in 1985. Burial will be private. A memorial service in Chatham, MA in July.       
 CANDIDO--Salvatore Frank. Of Pelham, NY. Loving husband, father, grandfather, uncle and friend died on May 16, 2006 at Memorial SloanKettering Hospital after a courageous battle with cancer. In 1975, along with his brother Anthony, Sal founded Manhattan Information Systems, one of the large
 GINSBERG - William. The Board of Directors and staff of Citizens Housing and Planning Council deeply mourn the passing of our admired colleague and friend. His integrity, intelligence and pragmatism provided infallible guidance to CHPC for more than four decades. Bill taught us all that pro
 HOUSTON -- Douglas W., Ph.D. of Bronxville. Husband of Rose, father of Alan. Dr. Houston received his Doctorate in Modern European History from the University of Pennsylvania. He was a Fullbright scholar, U.S. Dept. of State historian and Professor of History at Fordham University for 28 ye
 LiCALZI--1st Lt. Michael Lucian. Michael died Thursday, May 11 in Al Anbar Province, Iraq while in the service of his nation. He was 24 years old. His death took place while he was a platoon leader in ''A'' Company of the United States Marine Corps 2nd Tank Battalion. Michael and his three 
 MINOFF--Philip. On May 16, 2006. Beloved husband of Muriel. Devoted father of William and Maxine Fox. Dear brother of Jack and brother-in-law of Mercedes. Loving uncle of Michelle and Suzanne. Cherished grandfather of Marisa, Brittany, Jake, Sarah, Logan and Matthew. Services Wednesday 11:3
 TONSMEIRE--James M. Sr., 94. Of Peconic Landing, Greenport, L.I., formerly of Garden City, N.Y. on May 15 , 2006. Loving husband (66 yrs) of Marjorie J. nee Stiehl. Survived by his loving family. Family to receive friends today from 2-4 & 7-9 P.M. at the Horton-Mathie Funeral Home, 735 Firs
 TORSNEY--Gerard F. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Gerard F. Torsney, on April 29, 2006. We will greatly miss Gerry's brilliant counsel, wit, and repartee. He was an educated gentleman, whose generosity, compassion and integrity is a loss for all. Gerry was truly the 
 PELIKAN--Jaroslav. It is with deep sorrow that the American Academy of Arts andSciences mourns the loss of Jaroslav Pelikan, preeminent scholar of the humanities, wise interpreter of the modern university, and President of the Academy from 1994-1997. The leading historian of Christianity fo
 KOSROVANI -- Bahman R. Memorial services will be held for Bahman, beloved son of Farah and Ambassador Khosrovani, cherished brother of Dany, adoring father of Cyrus and Darius, who were his All. New York, Thursday, May 18, 4PM, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison Avenue at 81st Street. 
 Cy Feuer, the celebrated producer who gave theatergoers some of Broadway's most beloved musicals, including ''Guys and Dolls,'' ''Can-Can'' and ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying,'' died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 95. The cause was bladder cancer, his
 BYRNE--Frederick John, 87, died May 2 in Chatham, MA. Mr. Byrne was the former librarian of the Business School Library and of Butler Library at Columbia University. He retired from Columbia in 1985. Burial will be private. A memorial service in Chatham, MA in July.       
 CAHILL--Gerald H., 67. Died peacefully at home on May 14, 2006. Beloved father of Caitlin, Bevin, Gerry and Lizzie, proud grandfather of Charlotte, and one-of-a-kind brother, uncle, cousin, and friend. He is survived by his siblings, John, Kevin, Michael, Patricia Fay, Moreen Carey, and Cat
 CANDIDO--Salvatore Frank. Of Pelham, NY. Loving husband, father, grandfather, uncle and friend died on May 16, 2006 at Memorial SloanKettering Hospital after a courageous battle with cancer. In 1975, along with his brother Anthony, Sal founded Manhattan Information Systems, one of the large
 CRILE--George III. Reporter and author. Died at home on May 15, 2006 of pancreatic cancer. Adored husband of Susan Lyne, father of Katherine, Molly, Susan and Jane and former husband of Anne Milliken. Beloved brother of Ann Esselstyn and Susan Crile, and step-son of Helga Sandberg. Worshipe
 ETTELSON--Andrew William. On May 7, 2006, at age 40. Graduate of Harvard University. Most beloved son of Sandra & William Ettelson. Caring brother of Amy E. Hyman (Robert) and Linda E. Bernstein (Alan) and loving uncle of Carrie, Jeffrey, Emily, Dana and Jay. Private services were held at S
 FEUER--Cy. The members, board and staff of the League of American Theatres and Producers mourn our immediate past Chairman and longtime President, a remarkable man of the Theatre who, with Ernie Martin, produced an unprecedented series of hit shows including ''Guys and Dolls'' and ''Little 
 LeVine--Robert BM. Loving and devoted husband of 52 years to Marge Schild LeVine. Father of Robin and Bob Ballin, Gail and John Vanderheyden, Lon LeVine and Jan Wooten. Grandfather of Amy, Jaime, Nick and Sarah. His love, guidance and generosity has been an inspiration to us all. Services T
 RAPOPORT--Raymond. Died peacefully at his home on May 15, 2006. Ray was born in NYC on Jan. 4, 1923 to Harry & Anna Rapoport. He lived above the family restaurant, Rapoport's Restaurant on 2nd Avenue, and began working there at the age of 10. He attended NYU and Ohio University where he joi
 RUBENS--Stanley M. Age 92, died May 17, 2006. Loving husband of Denise Rubens (nee Blum), father of Monique Rubens Krohn and the late Rick Rubens. In-law to Douglas Krohn, MD, and proud grandfather of Alex and Meaghan. Treasured brother of Rhoda Russota Berman and uncle of Judy Siegel and L
 WALKER--Vincent Carl. Born in Mateo Sanchez, Cuba on April 16, 1930 to Daniel Walker and Theodure Joseph Walker. At six years old, Vincent left Cuba to go to Jamaica with his family. He attended primary school and later Buxton high school in Kingston, Jamaica, graduated and entered the civi
 KAMINESTER--Richard. Shiva will be held Friday and Sunday 3-6 PM at family residence, 300 East 57th Street, by Inalee Foldes. He will be greatly missed.       
 KOSROVANI -- Bahman R. Memorial services will be held for Bahman, beloved son of Farah and Ambassador Khosrovani, cherished brother of Dany, adoring father of Cyrus and Darius, who were his All. New York, Thursday, May 18, 4PM, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison Avenue at 81st Street. 
 Vincent J. Cristofalo, a cell biologist who became an authority on aging by studying the mechanisms that cause human cells to divide, mature and ultimately deteriorate, died on May 8 in Philadelphia. He was 73. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Dr. Cristofalo began hi
 BITENSKY--Samson. Died on May 17, 2006 in the late afternoon at the age of 86. He is survived by his love, best friend and wife of 56 years, Halina. He was the devoted father of Beth and Steven Myers of Kings Point & Susan and Peter Lerner of Sands Point and the adoring grandfather of Jessi
 BRODY--Dr. James D. Internal Medicine Specialist and Medical School Professor. James D. Brody, a physician and medical school professor died on Sunday at his home in Holmdel, New Jersey. He was 53. Doctor Brody was Associate Program Director of the Department of Medicine and Section Chief, 
 CHARTRAND -- Richard A. Age 76, retired NYPD Detective, died April 21, 2006 in Vero Beach, FL. Born and raised in NYC, he is survived by his two daughters Carol and Susan. He will be remembered at a Memorial Service at First Calvary Chapel, in First Calvary Cemetery, Queens, Saturday May 20
 FEUER--Cy. The members, board and staff of the League of American Theatres and Producers mourn our immediate past Chairman and longtime President, a remarkable man of the Theatre who, with Ernie Martin, produced an unprecedented series of hit shows including ''Guys and Dolls'' and ''Little 
 KORNAHRENS--Herman H. Of West Islip, NY, on May 18, 2006. Loving husband of Charlotte. Devoted father of Charles, Richard, John, Robert, James and Cara. Cherished grandfather of Dana, Joseph, Amy, Henry, Samantha, Michael, Kevin, Christopher, Thomas, Connor, Hannah and Lauren; great grandfa
 MORRISSEY--Thomas Leo. Thomas Leo Morrissey, 90, of Deal, New Jersey, former partner in the Newark law firm of Carpenter, Bennett and Morrissey (now McElroy, Deutsch, Mulvaney, & Carpenter), died Wednesday, May 17, 2006 at his home. Born in Weehawken he was a graduate of Rutgers College and
 ROSS--Robert E., 87. Of Howard Beach, NY, died peacefully, May 17, 2006 at Jacob Perlow Hospice. He will be sorely missed by his loving children, Norman (and Leslie) Ross and Wini (and Sam) Schein; granddaughters Caroline (and Dan) Grossman and Juliet Ross (and Dan Burstein); his sweetheart
 SCHER - Harold, 89, has passed away on February 11, 2006. He leaves behind a family that deeply loved him that includes his loving wife Leah Ruth, step-son Marc, granddaughter Elizabeth, together with Nellie, Sandi, Jennifer and Marc plus the memory of stepson Michael. This part of his fami
 TRAVIS--Martin Bice, Jr. Professor of Political Science and International Law at SUNY-Stonybrook. Former Mayor of Laurel Hollow and a life member of The Council on Foreign Relations, 88, of Laurel Hollow, NY, from Metastatic Laryngeal cancer, April 26. Beloved father of Elizabeth Nichols Mu
 KAMINESTER--Richard. Shiva will be held Friday and Sunday 3-6 PM at family residence, 300 East 57th Street, by Inalee Foldes. He will be greatly missed.       
 Peter Viereck, a noted historian, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet and a founder of the mid-20th-century American conservative movement who later denounced what he saw as its late-20th-century excesses, died on Saturday at his home in South Hadley, Mass. He was 89. Professor Viereck, w
 Robert J. Schwartz, a stockbroker who was an early advocate of using investment choices to foster social change and environmental awareness, died May 9 in Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, his grandson, Mathew Schwartz, said. ''Bob was the grandfather of soc
 William R. Ginsberg, a leading advocate for the preservation of open space, a professor of environmental law and a New York City commissioner of parks and recreation in the Lindsay administration, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was lung cancer, his son
 Edward R. Becker, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and a highly respected jurist admired for his powerful decisions and personal humility, died Friday afternoon at his home in northeast Philadelphia, where he had lived almost all his life. He 
 BITENSKY--Samson. Died on May 17, 2006 in the late afternoon at the age of 86. He is survived by his love, best friend and wife of 56 years, Halina. He was the devoted father of Beth and Steven Myers of Kings Point & Susan and Peter Lerner of Sands Point and the adoring grandfather of Jessi
 ETTELSON - Andrew. Be loved son of our very dear friends, Sandy and Bill. He was a terrific brother and brother-in-law to Amy and Bob, and to Linda and Alan. A loving uncle to Cary, Jeff, Emily, Dana, and Jay. Our love and deepest sympathy to all of the family. Nancy, Bob, Diane and Rob    
 JOHNSON--J. Stewart. With great sadness, the staff of the Metropolitan Museum of Art notes the passing of Stewart Johnson, a long time colleague and friend, who for 14 years was Consultant for Design and Architecture in the Department of Modern Art until his retirement in 2004. A connoisseu
 MARGULIES--Charles, 91. On May 18, 2006 in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. Husband of Helene. Father of Amy Berman & husband Stephen & Liza Margulies. Grandfather of Julie and Cheryl. He will be greatly missed. Graveside service, Sunday, 10:00 A.M. Mt. Eden cemetery. Shiva will be held Sunday,
 RETTINO--Anthony A., 69. Of Huntington Bay, passed away peacefully on May 18, 2006. Beloved husband of MaryAnn. Loving father of Marie Giammarino, Anthony, Augustino and Lucille. Adored grandfather of Nicholas, Marc and Isabel. Devoted son of the late Augustino and Louise. Cherished brother
 RIECK--James C., 69. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL, formerly of New York City passed away on May 13, 2006. Before retiring, he was an English teacher at Bergenfield High School in New Jersey. Jim's life partner, Theodore F. Schultz of Fort Lauderdale, and two sisters, Faith Minshull of Margate, FL
 R. Bruce Merrifield, who won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing a much quicker way to synthesize proteins, streamlining many medical and scientific experiments, died Sunday at his home in Cresskill, N.J. He was 84. His death was announced by Rockefeller University, where he w
 ANDREASIAN--Edgar Diran. 80, of Great Neck, NY, died at home on May 19, 2006. Born and raised in New York City, he is survived by his former wife Zepure Andreasian, his daughter Marguerite White, sons Peter and Theodore, and granddaughters Arax and Amelia. Friends may visit at the Edward D.
 BITENSKY--Samson. My beloved Samson, my husband of 56 years. Guided by your wisdom, we embarked on a journey filled with accomplishments, success, and love. Not only were you my partner, but my best friend. I will always be your beautiful wife, and you will always be my handsome husband. Yo
 CAMP--Orton P., 83, formerly of Waterbury, died at his home in Bethany, CT May 11, 2006. Mr. Camps education included The Fessenden School in West Newton, MA. The Taft School in Watertown, CT and Yale University. His senior year at Yale was interrupted by service in WW II. AS an army office
 ETTELSON - Andrew. Be loved son of our very dear friends, Sandy and Bill. He was a terrific brother and brother-in-law to Amy and Bob, and to Linda and Alan. A loving uncle to Cary, Jeff, Emily, Dana, and Jay. Our love and deepest sympathy to all of the family. Nancy, Bob, Diane and Rob    
 HERLES--Jeffrey Joseph, 46. Passed away May 7 in Santa Fe, NM. Survived by parents Anthony and Barbara, brothers Chris and Andrew, friends and family who loved him. Financier, composer, vocalist, raconteur, wit, Jeff's interests and talents were many. A memorial concert of his music is plan
 MARGULIES--Charles, 91. On May 18, 2006 in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. Husband of Helene. Father of Amy Berman & husband Stephen & Liza Margulies. Grandfather of Julie, Cheryl, Sarah, Alex, Becky, Jake, and Zoe. He will be greatly missed. Graveside service, Sunday, 10:00 A.M. Mt. Eden Ceme
 MAURER--Allan, 88, May 17, 2006, Providence, RI. Beloved husband of the late Rhoda; devoted father of Amy and Bruce, and Howard; proud grandfather of Evan & Ilana. A memorial celebration of his life to be held in NY in June.       
 QUAYTMAN--Wilfred, Ph.D. Died on April 1, 2006 at age 92 in NYC. He was a noted psychologist in the NYC area for 55 years, co-founder of the Long Island Consultation Center mental health clinic in 1953, founder of the Long Island Institute for Mental Health psychotherapy training institute 
 RIORDAN--Robert E., 76. Died on May 12, 2006 of a heart attack near his home in Lighthouse Point, Florida. He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Mary Anne, their three children, Kathleen, Timothy and Robert Jr., ten grandchildren, and his sister, Nancy Riordan. After graduating college, t
 RUBINSTEIN--Eli A. Eli A. Rubinstein, Ph.D., a scientist who was an authority on the effects of TV violence on children, was born in New York City on April 27, 1919. He died at Carolina Meadows in Chapel Hill, NC on May 15, 2006, at age 87. His last formal position was as Adjunct Research P
 SALGAR--Dr. Alberto. Died Tuesday in Greenwich, CT. A giant of a man in stature and grace, Dr. Salgar was born in Bogota, Colombia in 1934. He served in the US Army in Vietnam and practiced pathology for 20 years in New York State. His family and countless friends bid a heartfelt farewell t
 SINGER--Paul. President and Chief Executive Officer of Paragon Honda, Paragon Acura, and White Plains Honda died quietly with his family at his side, on May 10, 2006, in Westchester, NY. Mr. Singer died from complications due to cancer; he was 72 years of age. As a devoted husband, father a
 WILLIAMS--Ray. Died May 14 at NYU Medical Center which was a part of most of his life. Ray was the Administrator of the Department of Surgery under Frank Spencer, MD. About 40 years ago when his son Shawn had to tell his classmates what his father's work was, he said, ''My Dad tells doctors
 CAPELLUTO -- Alexander James. ''Like the sun, he brought warmth, brilliance and illumination to everything that he did and touched ...a star has vanished from our midst...we are heartbroken.'' The Horace Mann community is in deep shock and mourning over the tragic death of our cherished alu
 DAVIDSON--Nathan J. May 21, 1999. Thank you, God, for the gift of his life--a joy to so many, an inestimable treasure to me. KMD       
 Richard P. Brickner, a novelist, memoirist and critic known for his fictional and nonfictional explorations of an automobile accident that left him permanently paralyzed, died on May 12 at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was cardiac disease, said his brother, Philip W. B
 Gilbert Sorrentino, a Brooklyn-born poet, novelist, literary critic and professor whose erudite work drew frequent praise and occasional scorn but never a wide audience, died on Thursday in Brooklyn. He was 77 and lived in Bay Ridge. The cause was lung cancer, said his son Christoph
 Melvin M. Lebetkin, a lawyer who went to prison for his role in the New York City Parking Violations Bureau scandal of the late 1980's, died on May 11 in Queens. He was 77. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Mr. Lebetkin's son, Steven. Before his legal fall, 
 ANDREASIAN--Edgar Diran. 80, of Great Neck, NY, died at home on May 19, 2006. Born and raised in New York City, he is survived by his former wife Zepure Andreasian, his daughter Marguerite White, sons Peter and Theodore, and granddaughters Arax and Amelia. Friends may visit at the Edward D.
 BENTELE--Max. Age 97, died May 19, 2006. A pioneer of the jet age, Dr. Bentele made major contributions to the development of reciprocating, rotary and gas turbine engines, including the Wankel engine. He will be long remembered for advancing the status of engineers and promoting innovation
 BITENSKY - Samson. The American Committee for Shenkar College in Israel mourns the passing of Samson Bitensky, a member of our Board of Directors and a Governor of the College. The Halina and Samson Bitensky Textile Technology Laboratory was established to prepare students for industry. As 
 CAPELLUTO - Alexander. Beloved son of Jacques and Karen, loving brother of Katherine. Services 12:30, Monday, at Congregation Bnai Jeshurun, 257 West 88th St. No flowers. $(6$)CAPELLUTO -- Alexander. You were a true inspiration to both Horace Mann students and parents alike. From Nu
 CRAWFORD -- John Hum phrey III. Died on May 16th of complications from ALS. Originally from Short Hills, New Jersey, ''Tex'' graduated from the Pingry School and Lehigh, and received an MBA from NYU. He was an officer in the Marine Corps and served in Vietnam. He is survived by his beloved 
 KRACH--William Robert. 83. A man of integrity and humor. Bill died peacefully at home with his Ellie by his side on May 20. Bill was a singer, vocal coach, and performed in many original Broadway productions including ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,'' ''My Fair Lady,'' and ''High Spirits.'' He 
 RICH--Milton. 92, passed away peacefully on May20, 2006, with his beloved wife of 67 years, Adele, and daughter, Meredith, at his side. Veteran publicist, uncle, greatuncle and friend. Burial private. Details of a memorial service to follow.       
 RIORDAN--Robert E., 76. Died on May 12, 2006 of a heart attack near his home in Lighthouse Point, Florida. He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Mary Anne, their three children, Kathleen, Timothy and Robert Jr., ten grandchildren, and his sister, Nancy Riordan. After graduating college, t
 SCHACHAT - Robert. Of Greenwich, CT, on May 20, after a valiant struggle. Born August 3, 1947, graduate of NYU and Ph.D in social psychology from University of Connecticut. Bob was a management consultant, a professor at Mercy College, an actor in local theatre and gifted cabaret singer. Be
 TURCHIANO--Frank. Nearly 90. On May 20, 2006, at home in Port Washington, NY. My father, a man of ceaseless curiosity, perseverance, and accomplishment, triumphed over severe adversity and went on to make many people happy, including himself. A memorial service will be held soon at the Cong
 Robert Heinecken, an artist and teacher whose eclectic and challenging work radically expanded the range of possibilities for photography as art, died on Friday at a nursing home in Albuquerque. He was 74. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Joyce Neimanas, who added that he had
 Dr. Lee Jong Wook, who led the World Health Organization as its director general as it struggled to cope with the spread of SARS, avian flu and other public health menaces, died yesterday in Geneva, where he was to attend the organization's annual meeting. He was 61. Spain's ministe
 Hans Fantel, a pioneering writer on high fidelity who produced a column on home electronics for The New York Times for 17 years and wrote movingly about his life in prewar Vienna, died on Sunday. He was 84. Mr. Fantel died in Springfield, Mass., of injuries suffered in a car acciden
 Lewis Davis, a co-founder of the architectural firm Davis Brody Bond, whose own work ranged from bold Brutalist apartment towers to ornate Beaux-Arts civic landmarks, died on Sunday night at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan, for which he designed two buildings. He was 80 and live
 ALFORD--Robertson F. Of Norfolk, CT died suddenly on May 20, 2006. Services will be at Trinity Episcopal Church, Lime Rock, CT, on Thursday, May 25 at 11 AM. Donations in lieu of flowers may be made to Prime Time House, Torrington, CT., or The Salvation Army. $(6$)ALFORD--Robertson F. The A
 BITENSKY - Samson. The Fashion Institute of Technology and The Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries express with sadness the passing of Samson Bitensky, Chairman and CEO of Fab Industries, Inc. His support of and interest in FIT and its students will always be remembered. We ex
 BROWN -- Joseph S., 89. Passed away peacefully surrounded by family Saturday, May 20, 2006, in Somers, NY. He leaves behind his beloved wife of 64 years, Shirley, daughters Regina (Mark) and Marilyn (Meredith), sister Lillian Lublang, and many nieces, nephews, relatives and friends who love
 DAVIS--Lewis, 80. Died May 21, 2006. He is survived by Anne, his wife of 30 years, four children, Steven, Michael, Peter and Ariel, and five grandchildren, Emily, Nicholas, Alexander, Zachary and Nina. He founded the architectural firm Davis, Brody and Associates with his partner and best f
 GOODMAN--Anthony R. Beloved husband of Zmira Goodman for almost 52 years, on May 20, 2006 at The Mount Sinai Hospital after a long and valiant battle with heart disease and cancer. A perceptive and talented individual of great integrity and outstanding wit, Tony was born in London and educa
 GRAZIO--Alan Roy. On May 16, 2006, after a courageous fight against lung cancer, Alan Grazio, aged 66, passed away peacefully in his home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Everyone who knew Alan knew him to be kind and giving with a great sense of humor and an infectious laugh. He enjoyed life to 
 KYRIAKIS--William C. Independent film maker. Beloved father of John and Louise Kaufman. Adored grandfather of Alexander Kyriakis, and Ava, Jack and Will Kaufman. He will be deeply missed by all. Donations to The American Heart Association.       
 LICALZI--Michael. On behalf of HELPUSA and our founder, Andrew Cuomo, we would like to express our deepest condolences to Greg and Carol Licalzi, and their children, Gregory, Luke and Elizabeth. Their son and brother, Michael, a patriot, died in Iraq in the service of his country. We also o
 MERRIFIELD--Bruce. The Rockefeller University community mourns with deep sadness the loss of our beloved colleague and friend, Bruce Merrifield, a biochemist whose research greatly advanced the understanding of the relationship between the chemical structures of proteins and their physical 
 ROSENBAUM -- Herbert L. Died May 22, at 87, joining wife Sally and daughters Adrienne and Jane for eternity. Memories of his love of life, generosity and courage will always be cherished by daughter Linda, grandsons Tal and Daniel, and daughterin-law Andrea. Graveside service, Beth David Ce
 VAN DEN HEUVEL--Stanley. The Board of Directors of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York and Northern New Jersey, Inc. note with sadness the passing of our longtime board member, tireless supporter and valued friend, Stanley van den Heuvel. He joined the Goodwill board in 1962 and was an 
 Lloyd Bentsen, former congressman and senator from Texas, onetime secretary of the Treasury and the Democratic nominee for vice president in 1988, died yesterday at his home in Houston. He was 85. The cause was complications of a stroke he suffered in 1998, his family said. Rapid Ri
 AHRENS--Peter. We mourn his passing on May 22,2006.Peter was a successful broker and money manager.Until his death he was a vice president at Ladenburg Thalmann.In the 60s Peter ran the Champagne Gallery in Greenwich Village. Performers including Richard Pryor,BarbraStreisand and Woody Alle
 DAVIS--Lewis. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its good friend and colleague, Lew Davis. For two decades, Mr. Davis continuously guided awardwinning architectural restorations at the Library with his extraordinary design vision and sensitivity to history. He leaves a
 ERICKSON--Rodney, 89. Died on May 22, 2006, at his home in Pound Ridge, NY. Born July 9, 1916, in Chicago. BA dramatic arts, University of Iowa, 1938. Began his career in radio in New York and went on to be VP in charge of television sales for Warner Bros. President of Filmways Production. 
 FENNELLY--John R. Jr. Adored son of Suzette M. Fennelly and the late John R. Fennelly died on May 21, 2006. He was born on March 8, 1947 at Le Roy Sanatarium. John was employed at Kings Electronics and the New York City Transit Authority. Revered brother of Keith E. Fennelly (Irene), Suzett
 GOODMAN--Anthony R. Beloved husband of Zmira Goodman for almost 52 years, on May 20, 2006 at The Mount Sinai Hospital after a long and valiant battle with heart disease and cancer. A perceptive and talented individual of great integrity and outstanding wit, Tony was born in London and educa
 GREENFELD--Howard, 77. Died peacefully at home, May 22, 2006. Survived by his loving wife Paola and son Daniel. A celebration of Howard's life will be held at a future date.       
 HOLLANDER--Wilbur (Bill). A copy editor at the New York Times for 40 years until his retirement in 2001, died May 14 at Vassar Brothers Medical Center in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. after a brief illness. He was 80. Born in Detroit, Michigan, Mr. Hollander was the second of four sons of Emil and Ber
 LEE--Mike of Shandaken, NY on May 20, 2006. Surviving are his wife Ulla, and black lab ''the Duke of Ulster''. A Memorial Service will be May 27 at 10 AM at the E. B. Gormley Funeral Home 87 Main St. Phoenicia, NY. Memorials may be made to the Mike & Ulla Lee Foundation 51 North 6th St., Br
 TROLL--Walter Ph.D. Professor at NYU Medical Center for many years died May 21 due to complications of multiple sclerosis. He is survived by his wife, Elaine, sons Mark and Victor, daughters-in-law Lalli and Nell and grandchildren, Emily, Phoebe, Miya and Rajan. Memorial service will be sch
 HIRSCHHORN--Herbert H. Born in Brooklyn, New York, April 13, 1909; admitted to the Bar, 1934, New York; U.S. Supreme Court, 1962; U.S. District Court, Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, 1966; U.S. District Court, Western District of New York, 1966; U.S. Court of Appeals, Second Cir
 Clifford Antone, founder of Antone's, the Austin, Tex., blues club that helped start the careers of Texas music artists including Stevie Ray Vaughan, the Fabulous Thunderbirds and Charlie Sexton and helped turn Austin into a city that bills itself as the live music capital of the world, die
 Hamza El Din, an oud player and composer who reinvented the musical culture of Nubia and carried it worldwide, died Monday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications after surgery, said his wife, Nadra, who survives him. Mr. El Din's austere, hypnotic music w
 Morris P. Glushien, who was general counsel for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union for a quarter-century and won a landmark free-speech case before the United States Supreme Court, died on Friday in Los Angeles, his family said. He was 96. In 1947, David Dubinsky, the ga
 ALPERT--Gordon M., 62. On May 23, 2006. Husband of Judie, father of Ivanya and Dimitri, zayde of Jake, Ben, and Sia. Donations in his memory may be made to the New Israel Fund.       
 BRYAN--Larry. Died on May 15, 2006 at home in Dallas, Texas. Longtime resident of Madison, WI and New York City. Talented menswear designer, who travelled the world and loved his work, his collections and his family and friends. Survived by his parents, sisters, nieces and nephew. Reunited 
 DAVIS--Lewis. The Juilliard community mourns the passing of Lewis Davis, architect of The Juilliard School's Meredith Willson Residence Hall, which rises above the Samuel B. and David Rose Building. With creativity and a wonderful wit, Lew was an extraordinary architect, who responded to Ju
 DEGROAT--William. May 18, 2006, North Branford, CT. A true gentleman. He is loved and missed by his staff at the Blackstone Library.       
 HARRIS - Harvey. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member, Harvey Harris. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LANE--Lawrence. We will miss him. Memorial sevices will be announced later. Martha & Martin Reinken       
 LAPPIN--Peter J. Passed away quietly at his South Carolina home, May 17, 2006. U.S. Navy Veteran. He is survived by two sons James and Glenn, grandson Keith; sisters Anne, Gertrude, Liz and Winnie. New York Times Pressman for thirty years. Memorial service at Thomas F. Dalton, 29 Atlantic A
 O'NEILL--Edward J. Age 69, beloved husband of Clare Cunnion O'Neill, died on May 21, 2006, following a courageous battle with cancer. Edward was born July 30, 1936 in Queens, NY, to the late Edward & Loretta Joyce O'Neill. Edward served in the U.S. Marine Corps and graduated from St. John's
 RUBINSTEIN--Marc, 86, May 23, 2006. Beloved husband of Helen, devoted father of Jack (Fali) and Sharon, cherished grandfather of Dina & Erica, loyal brother to Annette, who predeceased him and Felice. A Holocaust survivor, many other family members perished in WWII. Services are at 9:45 AM,
 SENDAR--Neil, 59. Passed away May 20, 2006 in Santa Rosa, CA. Survived by his mother Sylvia and sister Marsha. Formerly of NYC, Neil worked the Sendar Company.       
 TANCER--Dr. M. Leon. A distinguished obstetrician and gynecologic surgeon, M. Leon Tancer died peacefully at his home in Teaneck, NJ on May 24, 2006, four days before his 90th birthday. In a career that spanned more than six decades, Dr. Tancer was Director of Obstetrics and Gynecology at t
 TROLL--Walter Ph.D. Professor at NYU Medical Center for many years died May 21 due to complications of multiple sclerosis. He is survived by his wife, Elaine, sons Mark and Victor, daughters-in-law Lalli and Nell and grandchildren, Emily, Phoebe, Maya and Rajan. Memorial service will be sch
 VALLONE--Edward A., Sr. ''Big Ed'' of Roscoe, NY, formerly of Brooklyn, founder, former owner and president of Pioneer Bus Corp. of Brooklyn and Staten Island, NY died Monday, May 22, 2006 at his home. He was 83. He was born June 13, 1922 in Brooklyn, NY. Ed served our country during World 
 HIRSCHHORN -- Herbert H. New York University School of Law and the Law Alumni Association mourn the death of Herbert H. Hirschhorn, alumnus, colleague and friend, a giant in the Law School community. He was an active, vibrant, and devoted member of our alumni family since receiving his J.D.
 James W. Carey, a respected communications theorist whose intellectual acrobatics added heft to the practical education of journalists at Columbia University, died on Tuesday at his home in Wakefield, R.I. He was 71. The cause was complications of emphysema, his son J. William Carey
 Jim Trimble, who was head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles for four years but spent the bulk of his professional football career with the Giants, died Tuesday at his home in Indianapolis. He was 87. The cause was emphysema, a Giants spokesman said. Trimble was with the Giant
 BRESNAN--John J., 79. On May 24, 2006. Husband of Barbara, father of Patricia McCallion, Mark Bresnan, Peter Bresnan & Joan Popowics and grandfather of eight grandchildren. His careers included positions at the Ford Foundation from 1952 to 1982 with eight years representing them in Indonesi
 COHEN--Martin L. Beloved husband of Rita. Revered father of Jason (Diane), Alan (Susan), and Steven (Amy). Adored grandfather of Jarrett, Elizabeth, Brandon, Spencer, Hunter, and Lindsey. Dear brother of Sylvia Butwin, Arthur (Kathy), and Lester (Carol) and brother-in-law of Paul (Brenda) L
 DAVIS--Lewis. It is with deep sorrow that the National Multiple Sclerosis Society mourns the passing of our friend, Lewis Davis. Lew, a longstanding board member and volunteer, not only shared our mission, but helped define and expand it. He sought new ways to raise money, recruit invaluabl
 GLUSHIEN--Morris. Small in stature, Morris was a giant to those lucky to know and love him. A mentor, teacher, friend whose presence brightened our lives. We miss him beyond expression. Jerry Kauff David Dretzin Adam Blumenstein Gail Rosenblum $(6$)GLUSHIEN--Morris. We note with dee
 STEINER--Alfred, M.D. A Clinical Professor of Medicine at The College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University and noted cardiologist for 50 years died May 22, 2006. He was 95. He was predeceased by his wife Margaret Allen Steiner. He is survived by his son Joseph Steiner, and his da
 SUSER--Fredric, M.D. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Dr. Fredric Suser, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Dr. Lori Suser, and to his in-laws, Silvia and Marvin Rubin, and to his brother and sister-in-law, Dr. Lisa and Ken Kornblau, a
 HOPENWASSER--Alan. 103, Died May 20, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Dora, Father of Howard, Father-inlaw of Helena, Grandfather of Monica and Joanna. A gift to all who knew him. Donations may be made to Greenwood House, 53 Walter Street, Ewing N.J.08628       
 SILVERMAN--Franklin Michael, 59. Survived by wife Geri, devoted father to Risa and Adam, brother of Leon (Marilyn), step-mother Estelle, step-sister Sue (Ken) Kanrich and cousin Dr. Ivan (Robin) Jacobs and cousins & nieces. A kind person who gave of his time to help others. He will be great
 Robert N. Giaimo, an 11-term congressman from Connecticut who was co-sponsor of the bill that led to the creation of the National Endowment for the Arts, died on Wednesday in Arlington, Va. He was 86. The cause was complications of heart and lung disease, said his daughter, Barbara 
 Desmond Dekker, the Jamaican singer whose 1969 hit, ''The Israelites,'' opened up a worldwide audience for reggae, died on Wednesday. He was 64. He died after collapsing from a heart attack at his home in Surrey, England, his manager, Delroy Williams, told Reuters. ''The Isr
 James B. McClatchy, the patriarch of a prominent newspaper family, died yesterday at his home in Carmichael, Calif. The McClatchy Company, which was founded by his great-grandfather, said the cause was complications from an infection after a recent operation. He was 85. A li
 LADMAN--Leo. We mourn the loss of our longtime neighbor and dear friend. Our condolences to his dear wife May and their daughters Joanne, Leslie and Kathy. Thomas & Mary-Lynne Bird       
 WETTER--Leo P. Of Westbury on May 25, 2006 after a 14 year battle with Alzheimer's Disease. Beloved husband of Denise. Devoted father of Leo, Richard, Scott, Carol Ann, Nancy and Dennis. Loving father-in-law to Donna, James, Christopher and Carolann. Cherished grandfather of 14. Dearest bro
 SILVERMAN--Franklin Michael, 59. Survived by wife Geri, devoted father to Risa and Adam, brother of Leon (Marilyn), step-mother Estelle, step-sister Sue (Ken) Kanrich and cousin Dr. Ivan (Robin) Jacobs and cousins & nieces. A kind person who gave of his time to help others. He will be great
 Ted Schroeder, a tennis champion who won Wimbledon and the United States singles titles in the 1940's but steadfastly declined to turn professional, died yesterday at his home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 84. The International Tennis Hall of Fame, which inducted him in 1966 and announ
 Val Guest, a prolific British filmmaker known for writing and directing a spate of genre films, some of them remarkably good and some of them remarkably bad, died on May 10 in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 94.The cause was prostate cancer, Mr. Guest's wife, Yolande Donlan, told The Los Angeles
 COHEN--Martin. Everything remembered about my brother is cherished. Yesterdays that Arthur, I and Sylvia spent with him will live in our hearts. Carol and I share deep sorrow with all our families. Rest in peace--Brother. Lester, Carol and Family $(6$)COHEN--Martin. Marty, you have 
 DAVIS--Lewis, 80. Died May 21, 2006. He is survived by Anne, his wife of 30 years, four children, Steven, Michael, Peter and Ariel, and five grandchildren, Emily, Nicholas, Alexander, Zachary and Nina. He founded the architectural firm Davis, Brody and Associates with his partner and best f
 GUTH--Bernard. The family of The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the loss of its devoted friend Bernard Guth and extends deepest sympathy to his family. He was a longtime and invaluable member of our Board of Trustees, combining business acumen with highly sophisticated musicianship. A gen
 KIEFFER--William T., Jr. Sculptor, died on Monday, May 22, 2006, at his home and studio. He is survived by his wife of 32 years, Ann Feeley, seven children and 11 grandchildren. Services will be held at 11 AM, August 12, 2006, at St. Andrews Church in New London, NH. Gifts in lieu of flower
 KLEINFELD -- Leonard M. Devoted husband of the late Ruth. Beloved father of Eve. Cherished brother of Stanley and Marvin. Dear brother-inlaw of Audrey and Bernice. A successful and respected businessman, he touched the lives of all who knew him. Services Sunday, May 28, 2PM, at the Riversid
 LECHER--B. Douglas, MD. Born in Brooklyn, NY, October 23, 1919, passed away in Tucson, AZ May 25, 2006. Prominent physician, beloved husband, father and grandfather. Survived by the love of his life--wife Muriel, married 58 years. Proud and loving father of Andrew (Donna), Peter (Debbie), a
 RIESS--Jonathan B., 58. On May 17, 2006. Darling beloved of Beth Eline. Adored father of Marine Corporal Christopher Morgan-Riess. Cherished brother of Claudia Wasserman and brother-inlaw Robert, uncle of Eric and Lise. Grand-uncle of Emily, Brian, Danielle and Gabrielle. As Professor of Ar
 RUMAGE--William Timothy, JR., M.D., 82, of Louisville, KY, passed away on Wednesday, May 24, 2006. He was born in Newark, N.J., graduated from Columbia University in 1943, and received his M.D. from New York University in 1946. He married Eleanor Wisner Burge, of Louisville, in 1945. He was
 SIEGEL - Fred. Greenwich, CT, on May 25, at the age of 46, after a three and a half year fight with leukemia. Buried May 28. Beloved husband of Jane, father of Yale, son of Eve, brother of Reva and Laura, nephew of Abe, Mimi, and Paul, cousin of Julia, Solange, and Diane, sonin-law of Marjo
 STEIN--Morris. New York University's Psychology Department mourns the loss of Dr. Moe Stein who died May 6 at age 84. Retired as Professor Emeritus in 1991, he was on the NYU faculty since 1960 and had headed the Doctoral Program in Social Psychology. Well known for his work on personality 
 SUSER--Fred. He spent his life taking care of children. All who knew him loved and respected him. He will be remembered always and greatly missed. Our condolences to Laurie, Samantha and Stephanie. The Levy and Golden Families       
 TALMADGE - Arthur. Of Palm Beach, FL, on May 25, 2006 at the age of 92. He was the former Executive Vice President and Co-Founder of Mercury Records, former President of United Artists Records and former President and Founder of Musicor Records. He was born in Chicago, IL, in 1913, and serv
 Bishop James O. Mote of the Anglican Catholic Church, who helped start a revolt in the Episcopal Church after it voted to ordain women in the late 1970's, died on April 29 in Indianapolis, his hometown. He was 84. The cause was kidney failure, said his brother, Richard, of Indianapo
 Craig Heyward, the powerful fullback known as Ironhead, who played 11 seasons in the National Football League despite battling binges of food and drink, died Saturday. He was 39. The cause was brain cancer, Blair Armstrong, who coached Heyward's son, Cameron, at a high school in Atl
 Frederick Ted Castle, an experimental novelist and New York art critic, died on May 16 in Far Rockaway, Queens. He was 67 and lived in Brooklyn. His death, after a long illness, was announced by Bruce McPherson, his publisher. Frederick Corson Castle Jr. was born Aug. 7, 193
 FIELD--George. One of the founders of Freedom House and its Executive Director from 1941 to 1967, has died at age 101 in Kennett Square, PA. Mr. Field devoted his life to the pursuit of freedom, democarcy and human rights. After serving as Program Director of WEVD Radio, he became the first
 STROMBERG - Hank. Be loved spouse and father, 62, died on May 26, at Westchester Medical Center, after a courageous battle with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Hank was born on February 5, 1944, to Ruth and Hyman Stromberg of Bronx, NY. He attended the School of Visual Arts and was a veteran 
 Ted Berkman, an author and screenwriter best known for his book ''Cast a Giant Shadow'' and the movies ''Fear Strikes Out'' and ''Bedtime for Bonzo,'' died on May 12 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92. The cause was cancer, his nephew, Joel Blau, said. Over a 60-year career 
 Donald E. Rudolph, an Army sergeant in World War II who received the Medal of Honor for single-handedly destroying Japanese machine-gun positions in the battle to recapture the Philippines, died Thursday at a nursing home in Grand Rapids, Minn. He was 85. The cause was complications
 George Field, who fought isolationism, Fascism, Communism, racism, McCarthyism, anti-Semitism and other extremisms for three decades as the guiding spirit behind Freedom House, a nonpartisan organization dedicated to democracy and human rights, died Friday in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 101.
 JACCOMA--George E. Formerly of Larchmont, NY, died at Connecticut Hospice on May 20 of cancer. He was 72. George's career in advertising spanned over 50 years, during which time he won numerous awards in art direction. At Grey Advertising he introduced the split screen in a Ford Pinto comme
 SIMMONS--Sherwin Palmer, 75, prominent national tax lawyer, passed away in Miami, FL, after a long battle with leukemia, on Wednesday, May 24th, 2006, with his family by his side.       
 Hugh B. Patterson Jr., who was the publisher of The Arkansas Gazette in 1957 when that newspaper was thrust into national prominence for its stand against segregated schools during a federal-state confrontation, died Monday in Little Rock, Ark., where he lived. He was 91. His son Ra
 James Conway Sr., an entrepreneur whose company has been delighting the taste buds, if not always the ears, at this season for the past half-century, died on Sunday at his home in Ocean City, N.J. Mr. Conway, a founder of the Mister Softee ice cream company, was 78. The cause was ca
 CASSON--Dr. Phillip Raynor. Died on May 29 following a recent illness. Born in Sydney, Australia, Dr. Casson graduated from the Sydney High Boys School and went on to attend the Sydney University medical School. After graduating with a BS and MB in medicine he went to Broome, Australia, to 
 LEE--Mike of Shandaken, NY on May 20, 2006. Surviving are his wife Ulla. A memorial service will be June 3 at 10 am at the Evergreen Funeral Home, Inc, Brooklyn. Memorials may be made to the Mike & Ulla Lee Foundation, 51 N. 6th St., Brooklyn 11211.       
 PALMER--Edward L., of Mill Neck, NY, passed away peacefully on May 27th at the age of 88. He was the beloved husband of Margaret P. Palmer, his wife of 66 years, and the devoted father of Ned Palmer and Jane Palmer Morrison. He is also survived by his loving grandchildren, Edward L. Palmer 
 PERDUNN--Richard F. Of Lakewood, NJ. Formerly of Point Pleasant and Brielle, NJ. Dear husband of Doris Andrus Perdunn. Beloved father and father-in-law of Justine and James Kovacs. Grandfather of Julia Perdunn Kovacs and Jacquelyn Kovacs. He was pre-deceased by his first wife Eugenia Morel 
 TALLEN--Teddy (Nat). On May 29, 2006 at the age of 92. Beloved husband of the late Anne. Loving father of Sheila Cohen, Diane Spigel and Bette Tallen and father-inlaw of Irwin Cohen. Cherished grandfather of Robin Spigel, Allison Stahl, Meredith Cohen, David Faitelson, Kevin Stahl, and the 
 WITTY--Spencer B. Passed away peacefully at home on May 29 at the age of 92. Darling beloved husband of Cecile and the late Henrietta; adored father of Jane and Lawrence Gould; cherished grandfather of Lance and Michele Gould and Eric and Robin Gould; loving greatgrandfather of Ruby, Benjam
 Shohei Imamura, one of the most significant filmmakers of Japan's postwar generation, whose works include ''Black Rain'' and two top-prize winners at Cannes, died yesterday in Tokyo. He was 79. The cause was liver cancer, his son Hirosuke told The Mainichi Daily News. Born i
 Steve Mizerak, who sank his first pocket billiards shot at age 4, became a national champion while a full-time schoolteacher, then emerged as a pop-culture celebrity doing TV beer commercials, died Monday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 61. The cause was a heart ailment that followed rec
