 Benjamin DeMott, a prominent writer, scholar and cultural critic whose work explored the mythology that underpins contemporary American life, especially collective ideas about race, class and sex, died on Thursday at his home in Worthington, Mass. He was 81 and also had a home in Anna Maria
 Leo H. Sternbach, a research chemist who was foremost among the team of scientists who developed Valium, the tranquilizer that has been prescribed to millions of the sleepless and anxiety-ridden since the 1960's, died on Wednesday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 97. His long
 MOSS--Chester C. (Chet), 84, died September 29, 2005. Loving husband of Shirley (Star), devoted father of Ronnie, Nancy and Barbara. Dear father-in-law of Andrew Segal. Proud grandfather of Amanda and Emily. Died of complications from a fall after a three month valiant fight in the hospital
 MOSS--William J. The Officers and Trustees of The Flagler Museum are saddened by the death of their longtime friend and colleague who, with brilliant mind and clever wit, served the Museum faithfully for 28 years as Secretary, Treasurer and Trustee. His consummate insight, leadership, frien
 RUBINSTEIN--Frank, 83, died on the morning of September 29, 2005 at the North Shore Hospital. He died peacefully surrounded by his beloved family. He was a loving husband to Alice for 59 years and a devoted father to Richard, Donald and Ethel, as well as a wonderful father-in-law to Katheri
 SALIT--Milton H. Age 88, on Thursday, September 29, 2005. Dear husband of Evelyn Deutsch, beloved father of Abigail Jane (Dan) Fosco, Herbert Warren Salit and the late Susan Hope (Greg) Lowe. Proud ''Tati'' of his grandchildren, Lauren, Martina, Fosco, Sarah, Elizabeth Fosco, David, Jonatha
 SPENCER--Thomas F. 61. Died August 28 of cancer. Of New York and Middlebury, CT. After graduating from Taft and Union College, Tom was a U.S. Navy officer in Vietnam, decorated with the Purple Heart for injuries suffered in the river war in the Mekong Delta. Upon his return to the States in
 BRZUSTOWICZ -- Stanley, D.D.S. Dean Ira B. Lamster, Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery, notes with deep sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Stanley Brzustowicz, Professor Emeritus of Clinical Dentistry, on September 28, 2005. He graduated from Saint John's Uni
 BARRETT--William Randall, Sr., age 87, of Spring Lake, Michigan (formerly New Canaan, CT, and Birmingham, Mich.), died Sunday, September 25, 2005. He was born May 30, 1918, to Randall and Maud (Rowe) Barrett in Allegan, MI; and he married Marguerite M. ''Marty'' Pocock June 18, 1938, in Fer
 COLLINS--Arthur Sr. 76, on Saturday, September 3 Arthur Collins died at his home in Wilton, CT after a battle with cancer. Born July 3, 1929, he was the son of Arthur and Delphine Collins of Darien, CT, where he lived for many years. Mr. Collins graduated from The Kent School in 1948 and Pr
 DIBNER--David. On Wednesday, September 28, 2005, David Dibner, accomplished businessman, philanthropist and civic leader, died unexpectedly at his home in Wilton, CT. Mr. Dibner, who was Chairman of the Dibner Fund, a family foundation, and former Chairman of the Burndy Corporation, was 78 
 GOLDBERG--Jerome. 93, of Delray Beach. Passed September 30, 2005. Beloved husband of Tess. Dear father of Don Harwood and his loving daughter-in-law, Amy. Devoted grandfather of Adam. For information, Sinai Memorial Chapel, 561-865-1747.       
 KAHN--David R. In his 47th year. Loving husband of Susy; adoring father of Teddy and Daisy; beloved son of Joan and Mike Kahn, and son-in-law of Eva Rotmistrovsky and Hector Rotmistrovsky; and loving brother of Stefanie and Douglas Kahn; cherished uncle of Lauren, Michael and Daniel Kahn; a
 KELLEY--C. Harvey. He leaves behind Gail Warner, wife and very best friend. Harvey graduated Dartmouth College, Class of '52, Phi Beta Kappa. He worked with the Penn Mutual Insurance Company for 42 years. Harvey was an active leader in many organizations including the following: past Presid
 LANGER--Stanley E. On September 29, 2005. Beloved husband of Diana. Loving father of Denise and Richard and his wife Natalie. Devoted brother of Helen and her husband Buddy Fauser. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Member of Sutton Place Synagogue, the Metropolitan Clu
 MACK--John Duncan. Of Concord, MA. and Chatham, MA. died suddenly on September 27 while in England. He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1924. He served in the infantry in WWII in the Pacific, receiving a Silver Star. He graduated from St. John's College, Annapolis '45 and Harvard Business School
 MARSHALL--Melvin. March 10, 1922--September 26, 2005. Mel lived his life by offering the benefit of the doubt, he put his wife and children first. He was a man for whom family meant everything and whose life could only be measured as a fabulous success. Noted raconteur, his booming voice an
 MOSS--William J. The Officers and Trustees of The Flagler Museum are saddened by the death of their longtime friend and colleague who, with brilliant mind and clever wit, served the Museum faithfully for 28 years as Secretary, Treasurer and Trustee. His consummate insight, leadership, frien
 NEMIROV--Sidney. Artist of NYC, died on September 27, 2005, at home with his family. In WWII he served in the U.S. Air Force. Sidney was a Life Member of the Arts Students League.       
 RUBINSTEIN--Frank, 83, died on the morning of September 29, 2005 at the North Shore Hospital. He died peacefully surrounded by his beloved family. He was a loving husband to Alice for 59 years and a devoted father to Richard, Donald and Ethel, as well as a wonderful father-in-law to Katheri
 SIEGEL--Seymour S. CEO of Blue Ridge Farms, 1961-2004. Seymour Siegel was founder of Blue Ridge Farms, Inc., the largest deli salad production facility in the country. He started in the back of a 550 square foot store on East 79th Street in Manhattan in 1951. Mr. Siegel left behind a refrig
 DAVENPORT -- W. Gerald (Jerry). The Howard Memorial Fund and the community in general lost a great leader and humanitarian in W. Gerald Davenport. His service as President of the Howard Memorial Fund and his leadership and guidance to many other organizations was unparalleled. He is survive
 August Wilson, who chronicled the African-American experience in the 20th century in a series of plays that will stand as a landmark in the history of black culture, of American literature and of Broadway theater, died yesterday at a hospital in Seattle. He was 60 and lived in Seattle.     
 BELL--Richard Jameson Jr. Our ''R,'' musician/composer. Died September 28, 2005, in bed by a window looking out on the trees he loved in Chester, NH. The great love of Tammy Grimes and step-dad to Amanda Plummer. Also survived by parents, Richard and Margaret (Turner) Bell Sr., Avon Park, F
 KAHN--David R. In his 47th year. Loving husband of Susy; adoring father of Teddy and Daisy; beloved son of Joan and Mike Kahn, and son-in-law of Eva Rotmistrovsky and Hector Rotmistrovsky; and loving brother of Stefanie and Douglas Kahn; cherished uncle of Lauren, Michael and Daniel Kahn; a
 SIEGEL--Seymour S. CEO of Blue Ridge Farms, 1961-2004. Seymour Siegel was founder of Blue Ridge Farms, Inc., the largest deli salad production facility in the country. He started in the back of a 550 square foot store on East 79th Street in Manhattan in 1951. Mr. Siegel left behind a refrig
 Nipsey Russell, the comedian whose one-liners and impromptu rhymes made him one of television's popular talk-show guests and game-show panelists during the 1970's, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 and made his home in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, sai
 DIBNER--David. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of David Dibner of Wilton, CT, a long-standing active member of the organization. Mr. Dibner served in many capacities on the regional and national board of directors and 
 FERRANTINO--Matt, MPA. Age 65, on October 3, 2005. His distinct personality, and sense of humor made him loved by both family and friends. A true Manhattanphile, he loved New York City, and served its people in both the Social Services and the U.S. Federal Court. Funeral Mass will be held W
 FRANK--David. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, David Frank. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Helen and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President       
 GILMAN--Bert E. (Bob). October 2, 2005. Beloved husband of Eileen. Loving father of Laurrien, Richard, Jon (Brad) and Jules (Michael). Adoring grandfather of Mira. Lifelong business partner and devoted brother to Aaron and his wife, Betty. Uncle to Lynda, Mark and Bill. Past president of No
 KAHN--David R. It is with deep sorrow and regret that we mourn the loss of a great man David R. Kahn. For more than 40 years, we have had the distinct privilege to work closely with the Kahn family and Croscill Inc. David was a true visionary who will be missed by all who had the opportunit
 KAUFMAN--Dr. Ian Jay. Dr. Ian Jay Kaufman, age 65, died October 3, 2005 after a prolonged battle with metastatic melanoma. Dr. Kaufman is survived by his sister Caron Kaufman Broidy and brother-in-law Steven D. Broidy of Los Angeles, as well as his nephew Marc D. Broidy and Marc's wife, Dr.
 KELLEY--C. Harvey. The Officers and Directors of the New England Society in the City of New York are deeply saddened by the loss of their Past President C. Harvey Kelley. His enthusiasm and contributions to the Society will be greatly missed. Our sincere condolences go out to his wife, Gail
 KNIEF--Kenneth Ludwig. 81, died Sunday, October 2, 2005 at his adopted home in Naples, FL. A life long New York area resident, Mr. Knief accomplished much in his eight decades on earth, earning a MBA from NYU, an Advance Management Degree from Harvard, and working for CPC Int'l for 52 years
 PAINE--Hugh Eustis, Jr. Died on September 30 at age 75. He is survived by his sons William D. Paine and Andrew S. Paine, and his sister, the Rev. Molly McGreevy. Services will be held at The Church of St. Mary the Virgin, 145 West 46 St (between 6th and 7th Aves), NY, NY on Wednesday, Octob
 REIF--Gary C. Too young, too soon. Loving husband of Tracy and loving father of Henry. Devoted brother of Richard. An inspiration and friend to all who knew him. Graduate of The Bronx High School of Science and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, founder and former CEO of GERS Retail Systems.
 ROLFE--Justin B. (''Jud''), 88, of Teaneck, NJ (formerly of New Milford, NJ and Jupiter, FL), died Sunday, October 2, 2005. A natural entrepreneur who established several successful businesses during his career, he balanced his commitment to business and family with community service includ
 RUSSELL - Nipsey. The Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Friar Nipsey Russell. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Private services were held. Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir Freddie Roman, Dean       
 VOLK--Irving J. Age 96, passed away on Monday, October 3, 2005. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, October 12, 1908, to Ida and Harry Volk. He was a graduate of New York University, Class of 1929. He was a CPA and businessman until his retirement in 1973. He was predeceased by his daughter, Elean
 WILSON--August. The Board and Staff of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York mourns the loss of August Wilson. We take comfort in the knowledge that his work will continue to enthrall and inspire audiences for decades to come. Our deep condolences go out to his family, colleagues and f
 Patrick Caulfield, a British painter of spare, bright still lifes and interiors whose canny blending of realist styles was most often associated with Pop Art, died on Thursday in London. He was 69. His death was confirmed by the Waddington Galleries, which had represented the artist
 Sam Goldaper, a retired reporter for The New York Times who covered sports for New York newspapers for nearly half a century, died Saturday at North Shore University Hospital at Plainview on Long Island. Mr. Goldaper, whose home was in Bayside, Queens, was 83. The cause was complica
 Jack Lesberg, a steadfast and versatile bassist who worked with many legends of jazz in the 1940's and 50's and also had a career as a symphonic player, died on Sept. 17 at the Lillian Booth Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 85. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's diseas
 BORDIGA--Benno Lord Bordiga, 85, died October 3, 2005 of heart failure. His joie de vivre and unique combination of European charm and American bluntness will be dearly missed by his loving family and many friends. Services Friday, October 7th, 12:30PM, at Congregation Emanu-El, of the City
 KAHN--David. The members of SSTT mourn the untimely death of David Kahn, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Susy, and to their children, Teddy and Daisy. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Victor Hershaft, President $(6$)KAHN--David. Condolen
 KAUFMAN--Dr. Ian Jay. Dr. Ian Jay Kaufman, age 65, died October 3, 2005 after a prolonged battle with metastatic melanoma. Dr. Kaufman is survived by his sister Caron Kaufman Broidy and brother-in-law Steven D. Broidy of Los Angeles, as well as his nephew Marc D. Broidy and Marc's wife, Dr.
 KLINE--Robert A. 61, born in NYC, passed away peacefully on September 30, 2005, in Beverly Hills, CA, after a long illness. He practiced entertainment law in NYC and Beverly Hills after graduating from Scarsdale High School, Columbia College and Columbia Law School. He is survived by his de
 LAISERIN--Maurice. 87, of Floral Park, N.Y. and Boca Raton, FL., died peacefully on October 3, 2005 at home in New York. Beloved husband and sweetheart of Dorothy for 62 years. Sensational father of Jerry Laiserin (Joyce) and Susan James (Andy). Devoted grandfather of Rachel Laiserin (Toby)
 MANTON--Sir Edwin A.G. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Sir Edwin A.G. Manton. A longstanding benefactor of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, and a marvelous and dignified man, Sir Manton will be remembered for his business acumen and exceptional generosity in support o
 RICHARDSON -- Samuel (Sam) P., Suddenly on October 2, 2005. He will be greatly missed by his family, many friends and co-workers at Serino-Coyne of Manhattan.       
 SPEAR--Julius (Jules) S. Passed away after a short illness on Saturday, October 1, 2005 at the age of 85. Jules was preceded in death by his loving wife of 55 years, Irma, and is survived by his son Larry Spear, daughter-in-law Lauren and grandson Andrew of Yorba Linda, CA; by his daughter 
 STEWART--Thomas III. Died on Saturday, October 1, 2005, in New York City. Born in Bridgeport, CT, on December 26, 1931. Graduated from Duke University in 1953. His life was filled with music as an arranger, tenor horn and trumpet player and music copyist. He leaves his wife Lois; sister San
 VOLK--Irving J. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of Irving, our esteemed member of 61 years and past member of the Board of Governors. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Anne and his family. Board of Governors Alan Gold
 WEISMAN--Dr. Seymour S. Age 86, died on October 3, 2005 after a long battle with cancer. Former Alumni Director at CCNY, professor at CUNY and long time member of Jewish War Veterans, he is survived by his wife Betty, children Julie and Scott, daughter-in-law Ginny and grandchildren Max and
 WILSON--August. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the untimely death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be mourned by the American theater and the world of literature.       
 David Nillo, a founding member of American Ballet Theater and a dancer in many musical theater productions, died Sept. 28 in Los Angeles. He was 89 and lived in Hollywood. His death was announced by Jim Baughman, a friend. Mr. Nillo, who was born in Goldsboro, N.C., was a ve
 Harold Leventhal, an internationally renowned folk music promoter who in 1963 presented an unkempt 21-year-old named Bob Dylan in his first major concert-hall appearance, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The death was confirmed
 AHRENS--Thomas H. Thomas H. Ahrens, a professor at the Technical College of the City of NY died on Tuesday at Cabrini Medical Center in NY. He was 85. He spent decades teaching students about wines, hotel law and dining room management. Professor Ahrens was always interested in helping stud
 BERGER--Seymour. October 17, 1924 to October 4, 2005, aged 80 years. Beloved husband of Harriett, father of Stefan (Deborah) and Diane, grandfather of Carey and Todd, brother of George (Marilyn) and the late Ann Ganeles (Paul), died suddenly on October 4, 2005. He was a veteran of World War
 BORDIGA--Benno Lord Bordiga, 85, died October 3, 2005 of heart failure. His joie de vivre and unique combination of European charm and American bluntness will be dearly missed by his loving family and many friends. Services Friday, October 7th, 12:30PM, at Congregation Emanu-El, of the City
 BURNS--Pola. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University community extends heartfelt condolences to our dear friend and colleague Dr. Edward R. Burns, Senior Associate Dean, on the loss of his beloved mother. Dominick P. Purpura, MD The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Alb
 EDWARDS--Weston Eyring, noted business executive, consultant and researcher in real estate and finance, Harvard DBA '61, died unexpectedly on September 25, 2005. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, 12 children, 75 grandchildren and seven great grandchildren. He will be missed greatly.  
 GLICKSMAN--Jack. It is with great sorrow and regret that Jack Glicksman, 95 passed away peacefully on Oct. 3, 2005. He was a long time resident of Woodmere, New York, and Miami Beach, FL. He was a dynamic leader in the community, an architect, builder, philanthropist, and sailor. A graduate
 KATZ--Dr. Robert. 72 years old died October 5, 2005 at home. Beloved husband and sweetheart of Marilyn for over fifty years. Devoted father of Karin, Daniel and Jordan. Cherished grandfather of Lily and Sam. He practiced medicine in New York City after graduating from Stuyvesant High School
 KLINE--Robert A. 61, born in NYC, passed away peacefully on September 30, 2005, in Beverly Hills, CA, after a long illness. He practiced entertainment law in NYC and Beverly Hills after graduating from Scarsdale High School, Columbia College and Columbia Law School. He is survived by his de
 LEVENTHAL--Harold. Died on October 4, 2005. A legend to his family. Devoted husband of Natalie, loving father of Debra and Judy. Adoring grandfather of Danielle, Samantha, Jacob, and Isaac. Never passed up a great corned beef sandwich. Services private. Donations may be made to The Woody Gu
 MANTON--Sir Edwin A.G. The family of Sir Edwin A.G. Manton mourns his death of natural causes, at the age of 96, on October 1. Born in Essex, England, on January 22, 1909, Sir Edwin lived almost his entire adult life in New York City as a successful senior executive of American Internationa
 RACKOW--Harry. On October 5, 2005. Beloved husband of Eve Kurtz, companion to Honey Kimmel, father of Paula Simone Rackow and Pamela Rackow Perls, uncle of Marcia Rackow. He loved the law, the Yankees, jazz, history, and his family. Services on Friday, October 7, 3:00 PM at ''The Riverside,
 RAPPAPORT - Arnold. 83, passed away after a short illness on October 3, 2005. Predeceased by his wife Bunny, survived by daughter Lynn, son Jay, daughter-in-law Harriet, granddaughters Julie and Katie, and countless friends and family. Services at Wellwood Cemetery, October 7, 2005 at 10:00
 RUANE--William J. The New School, including Mannes and Lang Colleges, deeply mourn the passing of BillRuane, a most caring friend who combined deep understanding of our missions with extraordinary generosity. Memories of his charm, elegance, and wit will warm our lives for a longtime to com
 WEISMAN--Dr. Seymour S. Age 86, died on October 3, 2005 after a long battle with cancer. Former Alumni Director at CCNY, professor at CUNY and long time member of Jewish War Veterans, he is survived by his wife Betty, children Julie and Scott, daughter-in-law Ginny and grandchildren Max and
 BOARDMAN--Seymour. Passed away October 3, age 84. A productive and widely respected abstract artist represented in numerous museum and private collections. An artist who expressed his direct experience and willingness to take risks in the pursuit of ambitious painting. He exhibited with Mar
 BORDIGA--Benno Lord Bordiga, 85, died October 3, 2005 of heart failure. His joie de vivre and unique combination of European charm and American bluntness will be dearly missed by his loving family and many friends. Services Friday, October 7th, 12:30PM, at Congregation Emanu-El, of the City
 BRUSTEIN--Dr. Milton W. Age 85, died at home October 5, 2005 after a long heroic struggle with emphysema. He was a graduate of NYU Dental School, Class of 1943. He is survived by his beloved wife of 51 years, Alice. He was the proud father of Dennis (Susan), Sheryl (Glenn Corwin) and Barry,
 CASALINI--Angelo Frank. Age 83, died on September 30, 2005, in his home in New York City. Beloved husband of the late Frieda May, dearest brother of Victoria Petronio, Antoinette Psathas, and Mary Papadelis, dearest uncle of Hope, Paula, Michael, Deborah, Fred, Norm, and Rosalind, and devot
 ELMEZZI -- Thomas. The Board of Directors of Hewbrew Hospital Home acknowledges with great sadness the passing of our fellow Director Thomas Elmezzi. Tom served with distinction for over 40 years. As Treasurer and Chairman of our Strategic Planning Committee, Tom's vision brought to fruitio
 HORTON--Roy. The Board of Governors and Membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Roy Horton, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Henie, and family its deepest sympathy. David Rifkin, President Harry J. Berg, Secretary       
 KATZ -- Dr. Robert. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Marilyn and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensa
 LEON--Henry. On October 6, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Maria. Loving father of Mitchell and Linda. He will be missed by his grandchildren Anya and Noah, their mother Ferris and his family in Argentina. Graveside service Monday 1PM, Shearith Israel Cemetery, Ridgewood, NY. LEON
 LEVENTHAL--Harold. Died on October 4, 2005. A legend to his family. Devoted husband of Natalie, loving father of Debra and Judy. Adoring grandfather of Danielle, Samantha, Jacob, and Isaac. Never passed up a great corned beef sandwich. Services private. Donations may be made to The Woody Gu
 LEVINE--Morton. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 MANTON--Sir Edwin. The Board of Overseers, faculty, staff, students, and alumni of the School of Risk Management at St. John's University mourn the passing of Sir Edwin (Jim) Manton, a gentleman, a great insurance leader, and a generous benefactor. For more than 70 years, our institution ha
 RACKOW--Harry. On October 5, 2005. Beloved husband of Eve Kurtz, companion to Honey Kimmel, father of Paula Simone Rackow and Pamela Rackow Perls, uncle of Marcia Rackow. He loved the law, the Yankees, jazz, history, and his family. Services on Friday, October 7, 3:00 PM at ''The Riverside,
 RUANE--William J. NARSAD, the Mental Health Research Association, deeply mourns the passing of Bill Ruane. We were honored to name our annual prize for lifetime achievement in childhood and adolescent psychiatry ''The Ruane Prize''. This award reflected his deep compassion, understanding an
 SHULMAN--William. 98 years, on October 3, 2005, beloved husband of the late Hattie, loving father of Phyllis Shulman, Ph.D., and fatherin-law of Loren Means, of San Francisco. Adoring grandfather of Daniel ShulmanMeans. A graduate of CCNY and Columbia University, he retired from teaching bi
 TORNBERG--Ralph, 84. Of Aventura, FL. Adored husband and best friend of Barbara. Father of Daryl Pines, Steven and Roy Tornberg. Stepfather of Kenneth, Larry and Andrew Gold. Devoted grandfather. Services at Beth David Cemetery in Hollywood, FL, 2PM, Friday. In lieu of flowers, donations to
 NIERENBERG--Dr. Harold. The entire Yeshiva University family expresses profound sorrow over the passing of the former dean of our Sy Syms School of Business, who also served as the Joseph Kerzner Professor of Management. A longtime educator, he served with distinction as the school's second
 SCHNEIDER--Lawrence. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 Richard B. Dunn, the former director of one of the nation's major solar observatories and a pioneer in the development of optical solar telescopes, died Sept. 28 in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, according to the National Solar Observatory in Sunspot, N.M.
 William J. Ruane, an investment manager whose extensive philanthropy included revitalizing a block in Harlem with new housing, a health clinic and scholarships for children, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was complication
 John E. Struggles, a founder and longtime partner of Heidrick & Struggles, one of the first executive search firms in the world and currently one of the largest, died on Tuesday at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 91. The firm, which is based in Chicago, announced the death.       
 John van Hengel, who set up the nation's first food bank, in Phoenix, to distribute unmarketable food to the hungry and then a national organization, Second Harvest, to spread the concept, died Wednesday at a hospice in Phoenix. He was 83. Cynde Cerf, spokeswoman for St. Mary's Food
 GREENBERG--Esther. My condolences to Alan C. Greenberg on the death of his beloved mother. No mother had a more devoted son. Sadly, Page Morton Black, Chairman, Parkinson's Disease Foundation       
 MANTON--Sir Edwin A.G. The employees, management and Directors of American International Group, Inc. (AIG) are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and longtime colleague, ''Jimmy'' Manton, one of AIG's founding fathers and a giant of the international insurance industry. A man of unc
 RUANE--William J. The family of William J. Ruane mourns his passing on October 4, 2005 of complications from lung cancer. He was 79. A devoted husband, loving father, and doting grandfather, he is survived by his wife, Joy; his children, William Ruane, Elizabeth Ruane, Paige Ruane, and Thom
 SCRIVANI--Arthur J., 79, of Wakefield, RI, and formerly of Leonia, NJ, died October 4, 2005 at South County Hospital. He is survived by his wife Anne L. (Romano) Scrivani of 57 years; five children, 15 grandchildren and a great grandson. Mr. Scrivani was President and General Manager of ITT
 WEISSMAN--Dr. Seymour The Alumni Association of CCNY mourns with great sorrow the passing of Dr. Seymour Weissman, Class of 1939, who served as Executive Director for over 30 years and retired in the mid 1980s. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his wife Betty, children Julie and Scott, dau
 DUSENBERRY--Bernard. 64, died October 6, 2005 after a brief illness. He was a longtime resident of Brooklyn and for 20 years, one of New York's Finest; a highly decorated detective in the NYPD. Honest, compassionate, brave, he was without doubt one of the most decent people you could ever h
 WEISELBERG--Dr. Martin. Died October 6, 2005. Professor of Endodontics at NYU College of Dentistry for 40 years. An extraordinary man, he touched the lives of so many. His presence will be greatly missed by family, friends and students. Predeceased by Celia, his wife of 62 years. Survived b
 Jerry Juhl, whose Emmy Award-winning writing gave life to Jim Henson's whimsically irreverent Muppets on television and film, died on Sept. 27 at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 67 and made his home in Caspar, Calif. The cause of death was complications from pancreatic cancer, d
 ARONOW--Joseph. (Joe). 74, of Beacon, NY and Buellton, CA, formerly of Shrub Oak, Crompond and the Bronx, NY. He will be dearly missed by family and friends.       
 CRYSTALL - Jerome, died September 19, 2005. Beloved brother of Gertrude (Sidney) Haimo and Carol Doubert. Loving uncle to all his nieces and nephews, great-nieces and nephews, and great great-niece.       
 DUNNE--Hugh A. Lifelong New Yorker, lost his battle with colon cancer on October 2, 2005 at the age of 62. Born June 5, 1943, Hugh grew up on the Upper West Side and as a child appeared in the television shows ''I Remember Mama'' and ''Watch Mr. Wizard'' among others. Hugh loved the city an
 ELMEZZI - Thomas. The passing of Mr. Thomas Elmezzi, the Sponsor of a new ''I Have a Dream'' Program in Ravenswood, Queens, is mourned by the ''I Have a Dream'' New York Metro Area and the national ''I Have a Dream'' Foundation. The children in his Program will benefit from his generosity f
 FEDER--Sol, on October 1, 2005, at the age of 95. The partners and staff of Feder, Platt and Azznara, LLP mourn the passing of our beloved founding partner, Sol. May his family, friends and clients find solace in his long and full life. Frank D. Platt       
 GILMAN--Bert E. (Bob). October 2, 2005. Beloved husband of Eileen. Loving father of Laurrien, Richard, Jon (Brad) and Jules (Michael). Adoring grandfather of Mira. Lifelong business partner and devoted brother to Aaron and his wife, Betty. Uncle to Lynda, Mark and Bill. Past president of No
 HUNTER--Evan, A.K.A. Ed McBain, 1926-2005. Memorial Service commemorating and celebrating the life of author and screenwriter, Evan Hunter A.K.A. Ed McBain, will be held Saturday, October 15 at 3 PM, NY Society of Ethical Culture, 2 West 64 Street, NYC. The service is being arranged by his 
 KATZ -- Dr. Robert. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of one of the original founders of our congregation. Heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Marilyn and to the entire family. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, President Seymour G. Siegel, Treasurer       
 KING--Leonard H. Attorney, age 85, on September 30, 2005, of Valley Stream, N.Y. and Boynton Beach, FL. Survived by his wife of 61 years Phyllis King and son Lawrence King, daughter Deborah Brown and grandson Corey Brown and his brother Jerome (Mabs) King and niece Melissa. His kindness and
 MANTON--Sir Edwin A.G. The employees, management and Directors of American International Group, Inc. (AIG) are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and longtime colleague, ''Jimmy'' Manton, one of AIG's founding fathers and a giant of the international insurance industry. A man of unc
 NOCH--Michael A., Of Naples, FL died unexpectedly, Friday, September 23, 2005. Born in Providence, RI, he was raised in Reading, PA. Michael graduated from Pennsylvania State University and lived in New York City for many years before moving to Naples nine years ago. He was the Managing Dir
 ROSE--William R., II. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, William R. Rose II. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Carol, and to the entire family. Patricia Sumergrade, Pres Richard J. Bronstein, Secy
 RUANE--William J. The family of William J. Ruane mourns his passing on October 4, 2005 of complications from lung cancer. He was 79. A devoted husband, loving father, and doting grandfather, he is survived by his wife, Joy; his children, William Ruane, Elizabeth Ruane, Paige Ruane, and Thom
 SHERMAN--Jeannine. On behalf of the Trustees, physicians and employees at North Shore University Hospital the administration offer our sincere condolences to Claude Sherman, President of the Hospital Auxiliary in the passing of his wife Jeannine Sherman. The Shermans have been dedicated vol
 ROSENTHAL--Herbert Martin. To the many friends, family members, colleagues, children and animals who knew and loved my father well, he was unequivocally like a god; unequivocally like a god. On September 30, from 2-5 pm, there was held a second memorial service in remembrance to two little 
 Leopold B. Felsen, a leading expert on the waves of the electromagnetic spectrum who expanded his work to include waves in water and other mediums, died on Sept. 24 in Boston. He was 81. The cause was complications of surgery, his son, Michael, said. An author of more than 3
 ACARD--Steven H., D.D.S. Passed away on October 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Matthew and Lindsay. Father-inlaw of Amanda. Devoted sonin-law of Ruth. Brother of Ben and Perry. Much loved brother-in-law, uncle, cousin and nephew. Passionate golfer, whose life was dedi
 ASOFSKY--Pauline. Died October 8, 2005, at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Isaac for 56 years. Devoted mother of Marjorie Zucker and the late Richard Asofsky, M.D. Loving mother-in-law of Burton Zucker and Leah Asofsky. Adoring grandmother of Rebecca Asofsky, David Asofsky and his wife Emi
 FISHMAN--George N. On October 8, 2005. Devoted husband to Eudy. Beloved father to Betsy (Joel) Ziegler, Kenneth (Nancy) Fishman and Jacki (Bill) Santoro. Loving grandfather to Erin (Richard) Schoor, Todd (Helen) Cymrot, Cary Ziegler, Jason and Hayley Fishman, and Daniel and Jonathan Santoro
 GROSSMAN--Jack. On October 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Esther for 55 years. Loving father of Neil and Barbara. Dear brother of Edythe. He served our country honorably for four years in the army. He was director of market research for the William Esty Company. Service Tuesday, 11:15 am, at '
 LANG--John F. The partners, associates and staff of Hill, Betts & Nash LLP mourn with great sadness the passing on October 5, 2005, in Maine, of our esteemed retired partner and extend condolences to his wife, Eleanor, and daughters, Anita and Elaine, and their families. Associated with our
 MANTON--Sir Edwin A.G. The employees, management and Directors of American International Group, Inc. (AIG) are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and longtime colleague, ''Jimmy'' Manton, one of AIG's founding fathers and a giant of the international insurance industry. A man of unc
 MILCHIKIER--Leon. Passed away peacefully at home. Survived by his devoted wife Estere, loving daughter Fay Lawson, grandchildren Allysa and Ben Goldman and Steffie and Andrew Gorenstein, great - grandchildren Justin, Harris, Dylan and Tessa. He also leaves behind his extended family -- Bern
 MUSCHEL--Louis H. On October 8, 2005. A scientist, an educator at the American Cancer Society, New York City, and a microbiologist at the University of Minnesota. Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army and graduate of Yale and NYU. Beloved husband of the late Anne. His family and friends will 
 OHRSTROM--George L. Jr. 1927-2005. George Lewis Ohrstrom Jr., of The Plains, Virginia, died at his home on Thursday, October 6, 2005. Mr. Ohrstrom was born on June 9, 1927 in Bronxville, NY, the second of three children of George L. Ohrstrom, Sr. and Emma Riggs Ohrstrom. He grew up in Green
 RUANE--William J. The family of William J. Ruane mourns his passing on October 4, 2005 of complications from lung cancer. He was 79. A devoted husband, loving father, and doting grandfather, he is survived by his wife, Joy; his children, William Ruane, Elizabeth Ruane, Paige Ruane, and Thom
 DUSENBERRY--Bernard. 64, died October 6, 2005 after a brief illness. He was a longtime resident of Brooklyn and for 20 years, one of New York's Finest; a highly decorated detective in the NYPD. Honest, compassionate, brave, he was without doubt one of the most decent people you could ever h
 Stefan Presser, a lawyer who for 21 years was legal director of the Pennsylvania chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, died Oct. 7 at a cancer center in Philadelphia. He was 52. The cause was complications from brain cancer, said his brother, Stanley. Mr. Presser, w
 Louis Nye, a ubiquitous comedian who became a fixture on early television for playing an unctuous advertising executive in a Steve Allen sendup of Madison Avenue, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 92. The cause was lung cancer, said his son, Peter. Mr. Nye ap
 ABORN--Louis H. Went to rest on October 9, 2005 at age 93. He worked at TamsWitmark Music Library since 1930 and became President in 1956 after the passing of his father. He was always involved in musical theatre. He was still working until January 30 of this year. He served for a number of
 ACARD--Steven. We are saddened by the untimely passing of Steve Acard, our friend, inspiration, source of comfort and comic relief. Our love and heartfelt sympathy to the love of his life, Marilyn, his children Lindsay, Matthew and Amanda and family. We will miss you terribly, but your zest
 BETZAG--Fred. 64, died on Friday evening, October 7, 2005. From Laurel Hollow, NY. Devoted and loyal Vice President in charge of sales at the textile finishing company of James Thompson & Co., Inc. for 23 years. Fred was an avid fisherman and diehard Yankee fan. He leaves behind wife Barbar
 COHEN--Myron. October 9, 2005. Intellectual property lawyer. Survived by his loving wife Barbara Levitov Cohen, children Peter, Lee (Joshua) Hare, grandchildren Anais Cohen and Jacob and Asher Hare and brother Howard. Funeral today, 12:45PM ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. Contri
 FISHMAN--George N. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of George N. Fishman, a cherished friend and supporter of UJA-Federation and past Board chair of our beneficiary agency, the Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitat
 GREENBERG--Esther. The Parkinson's Disease Foundation extends condolences and good wishes to its loyal friend, Alan C. Greenberg on the loss of his dear mother. Lewis P. Rowland, MD, Pres. Robin Elliott, Exec. Dir.       
 LANG--John F. The partners, associates and staff of Hill, Betts & Nash LLP mourn with great sadness the passing on October 5, 2005, in Maine, of our esteemed retired partner and extend condolences to his wife, Eleanor, and daughters, Anita and Elaine, and their families. Associated with our
 MAZOR - David. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime Temple member, David Mazor. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 QUITKIN--Frederic M., M.D., 68, October 9, 2005 in New York City. Devoted physician and researcher. Beloved father of Matthew, Mima, Megan and Rachel. Adoring grandfather of Sam and Zachary. Treasured friend, fierce Francophile and tennis fanatic. You may join the family and remember him Oc
 ROGERS -- John Stratford. Chairman and CEO of World City America Inc., and World City Foundation, died on Friday, October 7, at New York Presbyterian Hospital, of complications related to multiple myeloma. Mr. Rogers attended Trinity School in New York (class of '52), and received his Bache
 RUANE--William. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend William Ruane. A longstanding benefactor of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Mr. Ruane will be remembered for his enthusiastic dedication to community revitalization and exceptional generosity in support of education and
 Wayne C. Booth, one of the pre-eminent literary critics of the second half of the 20th century, whose lifelong study of the art of rhetoric illuminated the means by which authors seduce, cajole and more than occasionally lie to their readers in the service of narrative, died yesterday morni
 DIBNER--David. ''Words without deeds are nothing. One must show by way of example.'' Ben-Gurion said these words and David Dibner lived them. The officers and Board of Governors of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and benefactor, David, who
 FOLEY--Ronald E., 59, one of the most successful executives in the insurance industry, died Friday of pancreatic cancer. He was named chief financial officer of The Travelers insurance company in 1992 and co-managed its merger with Primerica (CitiGroup). Following the merger, he returned as
 MAZOR--David M., M.D. On October 10, 2005. Beloved husband of Helen. Cherished father of Eric (Cara Lee, fiancee) and Melissa (Ronald). Services will be held at Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, October 12, at 10 AM. Donations may be made to the National Kidney Foundation.       
 QUITKIN--Dr. Frederic M. The Department of Psychiatry of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University and the staff of the New York State Psychiatric Institute are profoundly saddened by the passing of the long-time Director of our Depression Evaluation Service. We lost a u
 ROGERS -- John Stratford. Chairman and CEO of World City America Inc., and World City Foundation, died on Friday, October 7, at New York Presbyterian Hospital, of complications related to multiple myeloma. Mr. Rogers attended Trinity School in New York (class of '52), and received his Bache
 SCHWARZ--Mannes. Beloved husband of Malka. Adored father of Ghita Tirzah & Chuck. Loving grandfather of Navah and Mia. Devoted brother of Herman and Ita. Born in Germany and raised in Poland, he survived the Holocaust and immigrated to the United States in 1956. He was a past Vice President
 EISENSTEIN--Alvin Gordon. Remembered always by his loving family and friends. 10/12/15--10/26/87       
 Richard Stone Reeves, a prominent portrait painter whose subjects were all extremely beautiful if a trifle on the horsey side, died on Friday in Greenport, N.Y. Mr. Reeves, widely considered one of the premier equestrian artists in the world, was 85 and made his home in Greenport. M
 William Henry McKeon, a former chairman of the New York State Democratic Party who mobilized New Yorkers for John and Robert Kennedy in the early 1960's, died on Friday in Auburn, N.Y. A native and lifelong resident of Auburn, he was 85. His death was announced by his family.       
 Henry Y. Hwang, who founded the first Asian-American-owned federally chartered bank in the continental United States, died Saturday at his home in San Marino, Calif. He was 77. The cause was colon cancer, his son, the playwright David Henry Hwang, said. Mr. Hwang (pronounced
 BUGIN--Harry. Of Jackson Heights, N.Y. On October 6, 2005, unexpectedly. Professional musician and actor. Survived by his wife Aphrodite (nee Manickas), sister Ruth Bugin and a nephew and niece. Born in the Bronx, he was the son of the late Isidore and Sadie Bugin.       
 ECKSTEIN--Phillip A., tragically killed October 9, 2005, his 21st birthday, in Saratoga, NY. Services 10 AM Saturday at The Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Ave at 90th St, NY. Memorials to Camp Lanakila, 2968 Lake Morey Rd., Fairlee, VT 05045.       
 FREEMAN -- Francis M, CChem, FRCS. Died in West Palm Beach, Florida, on October 7, 2005. Frank will be remembered for his contributions to the pharmaceutical and medical care industries, his Duoderm invention, his intellect, his wit, his high standards, his love for his family, and his unfa
 GERRITY--Joseph W., Jr., 89, died Monday, October 10, 2005. He was born in Newton, Massachusetts and had resided in the Albany area for many years. He had maintained homes in Loudonville, Lake Placid and Malapan, Florida. Joe was a graduate of Harvard College, 1938. He was an area developer
 KLASFELD -- David. His friends and colleagues mourn the sudden death of a loyal, honorable and beloved friend and send their condolences to his wife Hila, his daughter Rebecca and mother Pauline. A long career in public service gave Klasfeld a ready outlet for his love and committement to N
 KLEIN--Hon. Alvin F. Age 94, on October 11, 2005. He was a graduate of New York University and Harvard Law School. Justice Klein served the New York court system as a Civil Court Judge and as a Justice of the Supreme Court for over 25 years. Retiring from the bench at 76, he served as an Ar
 NICK--Andrew Jay, 42. Beloved husband of Dorothy and loving and devoted father of Jordan, Alex and Sophie. Cherished son of Larry and Judith, brother of Amy Bader and Kenneth, son-inlaw of Dr. Robert and Jo Belin. Caring uncle, stepson and brother-in-law. Andy inspired us all with his coura
 ROTH--Jerome, 87, passed away October 12, 2005. Husband, father, musician, teacher. He was the loving husband of Ruth, beloved father to Richard and Robert (Linda). Stepchildren Gary (Donna), Marcia (David) and Jeffrey. Grandfather of Jaclyn, Ben, Daniel, Rachel, Ben, Jason. Remembered fond
 WALLACE--James J., 84, of NYC and Hillsdale, New York. Died October 11, 2005. A man of great wit who lived life to its fullest. Jim was happily married to the late Coreen Coleman for 58 years. After serving in the navy in WWII, he had a long and distinguished career in the textile industry 
 ZIFF--Seymour J., 96, of the West End section of Long Branch, NJ and Palm Beach, FL after a short and courageous struggle with Lung Cancer died at his home in Long Branch on the morning of October 12, 2005. In 1962, Mr. Ziff was the principal founder of Tokyo Electron, Inc. a subsidiary of 
 Sanford M. Katz, a prominent civil rights lawyer who was part of the defense team that won a full acquittal in the celebrated Panther 21 conspiracy trial in 1971, died on Oct. 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was heart failure after a long illness, his companion, Jud
 Tobin Armstrong, the managing partner of the 50,000-acre Armstrong Ranch and an influential figure among Texas Republicans and cattlemen, died Friday in Houston. He was 82. His death was announced by the ranch management in Kingsville, near Corpus Christi. Mr. Armstrong grew
 David Klasfeld, a New York City official in four mayoral administrations and former deputy schools chancellor, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 58. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said. A graduate of City College and
 Donald R.F. Harleman, a civil engineer who pioneered the study of the flow of contaminants through bodies of water and advised agencies that cleaned up Boston Harbor, Chesapeake Bay and bodies of water in several developing countries, died on Sept. 28 on Nantucket, in Massachusetts. He was 
 Jerome Roth, an oboist in the New York Philharmonic for 31 years and a member of the pioneering New York Woodwind Quintet in the 1950's, died on Wednesday in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 87. His son Robert Roth said he died at a nursing home and had been suffering from Alzheimer's disea
 ABORN--Louis H. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary notes with great sadness the passing of Louis H. Aborn, longtime friend of the Infirmary and benefactor of the Aborn-Lubkin Center for Eye Research. Our sincere condolences to his family. Joseph B. Walsh, M.D. Chairman, Department of Ophtha
 CARLIN -- Robert Andrew. (April 8, 1947--October 12, 2005). Loving, devoted, courageous and dearly beloved husband, father, son, brother, uncle and dear friend. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. For information ''Gutterman-Musicant'', call 800-522-0588.       
 DREW--Stanley. Baker and noble simpleton. Born April 26, 1912, Warsaw, Poland and died Erev Yom Kippur 2005, Englewood, NJ. Born a fighter and died a fighter after 93 years and his first lost bout. He was kind and humble and saw the good in everyone and helped everyone find the good in them
 FOXEN--Robert. On October 13, 2005 of Garden City. Beloved husband of the late Anne. Loving father of Robert Jr., David, Paul, Judith, Katy and Timothy. Adored grandfather of Tricia, David, Genevieve, Kimberly, Andre, Anne, Marianne, Timothy, Julia, Mary and Joseph. Dear brother of Richard 
 FROSBERG--Solomon Richard. The Yeshiva University family is saddened to learn of the recent passing in Baltimore of the beloved brother of Mrs. Abby Belkin, wife of the late lamented second president of Yeshiva University, Dr. Samuel Belkin, of blessed memory. He is also survived by his son
 KLASFELD--David. Hila, Rebecca--his grin will never vanish. All our love. Craig and Savet       
 KLEIN--Alvin F. We are saddened by the loss of our distinguished former colleague, Alvin F. Klein. Condolences to his daughter, Justice Sherry Klein Heitler, and family. Superme Court Board of Justices, N.Y. County KLEIN--Hon. Alvin F. True friend for 30 years. We will miss you. Our
 NICK--Andrew J. The Principals and staff of Taconic Investment Partners are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our friend and partner, Andy Nick. Andy was not only an outstanding executive and manager, but an extremely decent human being, who always respected the dignity of our employ
 RUANE -- William J. (1925-2005). Save the Children's Board of Trustees, senior management team and staff in the United States mourn the passing of William J. Ruane, on October 7, 2005. In addition to being one of the most successful business leaders of his generation, Bill was one of Save t
 SCHONBERGER--Beryl. He was a gentle, loving, witty soul who knew practically everything there was to know. Beryl was taken from us way too soon and we are all stunned. His heart gave way Tuesday. Service: Riverside, Amsterdam Ave at W. 76th Sunday, October 16 at 2 PM. ''Ave atque vale,'' my
 SCHWARZ--Mannes. A survivor in every respect, a scholar, a fine mind and a dear friend who will always be remembered. Profound condolences to Malka, Ghita and Tirza. Love, Naomi, Maks and family SCHWARZ -- Mannes. The Mohegan Park Jewish Center joins Herman Schwarz in mourning the p
 SELDEN--Louis, son of Morris and Rose Friedman Selden, born August 26, 1910 in Brooklyn, NY, died Wednesday, October 12. He was the husband of Pearl Ratner Selden and father of Joel and Roger. He leaves behind three grandchildren, Robin, Jeffery, and Filippo; four great-grandchildren, Maggi
 SOLOMON--Jacob. Beloved husband of the late Sherry Kurland Solomon. Loving father of Nora Fleitman, Ellen Solomon, Lisa and Ed Hilfer. Cherished grandfather of Ian, Russell, Scott, Andrew, Gregory and Jessica. He lived a glorious life for 93 years! Services Sunday, 8AM at Gutterman's Inc., 
 Arthur Seldon, a libertarian economist whose books, pamphlets and articles supplied much of the intellectual artillery that inspired Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's free-market revolution, died Tuesday at his home in Godden Green in Kent County, England. He was 89. His death was 
 Edward Bennett Marks, whose career was spent aiding refugees as an executive of American and international agencies, both official and volunteer, died Monday at his home in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 92 and formerly lived in Manhattan; Leesburg, Va.; and Cambridge, Mass. His death w
 CONNOLLY--Marc Edward. Of Manhattan, NY, passed away suddenly on October 10, 2005, at age 31, in Egypt while on vacation fulfilling a dream of exploring the land of the pharaohs. Beloved son of Marilyn and Matthew Connolly. Loving brother of Matthew. Devoted, loyal and loving friend to many
 ECKSTEIN--Phillip A. The Horace Mann School mourns with great sorrow the tragic passing of Phillip Eckstein '03. Phillip's unflagging optimism, his appreciation for life and his great sense of humor were noteworthy. We remember his free spirit, his friendly smile and his senior project work
 GERALD--Louis G. On October 14, 2005 at age 86. Beloved spouse of Carmen Villanueva. Pre-deceased by his wife Doris. Loving father of Andrew (Susan) and Matthew. Cherished grandfather of Angela, Kara and Sam. Dear brother of the late Morton Goldberg. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home
 KLOTZ -- Alexander Beau masche. On October 12, six weeks after his ninety-ninth birthday, passed away peacefully in his sleep. Beloved patriarch, he is mourned by his daughter Anne Klotz Siviglia, his son-in-law Peter Siviglia, two granddaughters Ellen Siviglia Cutshall and Judith Siviglia,
 NICK--Andrew. Newmark mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague Andrew Nick. Andy's integrity and professionalism earned him the respect of those fortunate enough to have worked with him. He will be missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Newmark NICK--Andr
 PEYSER--Seymour M. Died October 14, 2005 in Sarasota, Florida from pneumonia. A graduate of Harvard '34, Columbia Law School '37. He is survived by his wife Beverly, sister Joan Bauer, daughters Andrea and Libby, son Michael and seven grandchildren. He specialized in entertainment law at Ph
 READER--George G., M.D. The Board of Directors and the clinical and administrative staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of our beloved and dedicated Director, George G. Reader, M.D. A member of our Board since 1952, he was a past Chairman of our Physician Advisory 
 SCHONBERGER--Beryl. He was a gentle, loving, witty soul who knew practically everything there was to know. Beryl was taken from us way too soon and we are all stunned. His heart gave way Wednesday. Service: Riverside, Amsterdam Ave at W. 76th Sunday, October 16 at 2 PM. ''Ave atque vale,'' 
 SCOTT--Robert Montgomery. 1929-2005. The Philadelphia Museum of Art's Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers mourn the passing of Robert Montgomery Scott, Honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees, who served as President of the Museum from 1982 until his retirement in 1996, and was one o
 Robert Montgomery Scott, a longtime president of the Philadelphia Museum of Art who was for decades a prominent figure in the city's civic and cultural landscape, died on Thursday in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Villanova, Pa. The cause was liver failure, his daughter Janny
 Sir Edwin A.G. Manton, a longtime executive of the insurance conglomerate American International Group who was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II of England for charitable contributions to the Tate Gallery in London, died on Oct. 1 at New York Weill Cornell Hospital. He was 96 and lived in Manh
 LeRoy Whitfield, a journalist who used a magazine column to chronicle the everyday struggles of people with H.I.V., died last Sunday at North General Hospital in Harlem. He was 36. The cause was AIDS-related complications, said his brother, Crofton Whitfield. Mr. Whitfield h
 ABORN--Louis. The staff of Tams-Witmark Music Library mourns the loss of our Chairman Emeritus, a scholar and gentleman, whose integrity, generosity and wisdom touched us all. His long life remains an extraordinary example of tireless devotion to serving the art and artists of the musical t
 ALTUCHER - Seymour. Of Princeton Jct, NJ died on October 7th from complications of a cerebral hemorrhage suffered in July 2003. He was 69. Son of the late Fannie and the late Leonard, he is survived by his wife, Rita; daughters, Bonnie and Lauren; son, James; daughter - in - law, Anne; son-
 BAKER--Norman H. Professor Emeritus, Dept. of Astronomy, Columbia University, October 23, 1931 to October 11, 2005. Died of Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, which he had successfully surmounted for 22 years. Survived by wife Doris Blum Nagel M.D., sister Jean Trousdale Ph.D, brother Richard
 CARLIN--Robert Andrew. Our friend since his birth. Our condolences to Roslyn, Barbara, Jessica, Steve and Jane. A man of great courage and determination to live. He will be missed by all of us. Your grief is our grief. May he rest in peace. The Yarfitz family       
 CONNOLLY--Marc Edward. Of Manhattan, NY, passed away suddenly on October 10, 2005, at age 31, in Egypt while on vacation fulfilling a dream of exploring the land of the pharaohs. Beloved son of Marilyn and Matthew Connolly. Loving brother of Matthew. Devoted, loyal and loving friend to many
 ELBOW--Matthew H., Ph.D. 85, Professor Emeritus of History, SUNY Albany, died October 8, 2005 in Albany. Class of 1940, Columbia Unversity, Dr. Elbow also received his MA (1941) and Ph.D (1949) there. His long and distinguished academic career included teaching at Hunter College, NYU, Beiru
 FIELDS--Albert. Beloved husband of Irene, father, grandfather and great-grandfather passed away October 9, 2005 at age 85. He maintained his own tax and insurance practice until 2003. A great man is gone. He will be greatly missed.       
 FROSBURG--Solomon Richard. The Yeshiva University family is saddened to learn of the recent passing in Baltimore of the beloved brother of Mrs. Abby Belkin, wife of the late lamented second president of Yeshiva University, Dr. Samuel Belkin, of blessed memory. He is also survived by his son
 GERALD--Louis G. On October 14, 2005 at age 86. Beloved spouse of Carmen Villanueva. Pre-deceased by his wife Doris. Loving father of Andrew (Susan) and Matthew. Cherished grandfather of Angela, Kara and Sam. Dear brother of the late Morton Goldberg. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home
 JORDAN--David K., M.D. On October 14th at age 73 after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. He will be greatly missed by his loving wife Marian, his family, friends and his former patients. Service Sunday 12 Noon at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 JUDD--Robert, 91, passed away on Yom Kippur. He was the beloved husband of Birdie, who predeceased him. He leaves behind his daughters and sons-in law, Lenore and Charles Cohen and Pauline and Gary Gerard; his three grandchildren, Samantha Cohen, Gregory Cohen and Michael Gerard; his brothe
 KATZ--Murray L. Age 73, formerly of Harrisburg, PA, died Friday, October 7, 2005 at home in Jupiter, FL. He was the former owner of Empire Kosher Poultry, Inc. He was married to the former Harriet Lasker of Little Rock, AR for almost 50 years. He is survived by his wife, his sons, Steven Ka
 KLOTZ -- Alexander Beaumasche. On October 12, six weeks after his ninety-ninth birthday, passed away peacefully in his sleep. Beloved patriarch, he is mourned by his daughter Anne Klotz Siviglia, his son-in-law Peter Siviglia, two granddaughters Ellen Siviglia Cutshall and Judith Siviglia, 
 LAUB--Joseph D. Born January 20, 1913, passed away on October 14, 2005. Husband of Evelyn, beloved father of Allen and Lynne, Michael and Carol, loving grandfather of Andrew, Amy, Allison, Gregory and Gillian, cherished great-grandfather of Melanie, Travis, Cooper, Nolan and Jackson. Joe ro
 LAUER--Robert ''Bob'' age 71. Retired Sr. Vice-President of Sara Lee Corporation, October 13 from complications of cancer surgery. Formerly of Chicago, Bob and Mary, his beloved wife of 49 years, moved to Flossmoor, IL to be closer to their children and grandchildren. Father of Anne (Jack) 
 LOCKMAN--Richard. Is dead at 80. An innovator and respected figure in the cosmetic and fragrance industry. He died peacefully in his home on Tuesday October 4th and was laid to rest in a private service on Friday October 7th. In a career spanning decades he worked with George Mennen, Pierre
 LOWEN--Arthur E., 76. Died on October 9, 2005. Devoted husband to Gerda. Beloved father of Lisa and Andrea. Dear brother of Roger, Douglas and Lucille. Loving grandfather to Ari and Sarah. He served as an officer in the U.S. Navy during the Korean War. He will be remembered for his courage,
 MUGLER--Richard C. Jr. At home on October 8, 2005, following a lengthy battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Suzanne Alsop for 45 years. Survived by their children Jennifer Mugler Peterson, Meredith Mugler Bowman, Kimberly Mugler Esson M.D., Richard C. Mugler III and 8 grandchildren. Memor
 READER--Dr. George G., 86 Died October 13, 2005. Survived by wife Helen B. Reader, four sons, Jonathan W., David P., Mark M., and Peter M.F., and five grandchildren. Born in Brooklyn. Served in Medical Corps, US Navy, PTO, WWII. Professor of Medicine and Chair of the Department of Public He
 RUANE--William J. Columbia University Medical Center is grateful for the contributions and foresight of William J. Ruane, whose philanthropy has built a lasting legacy in our Department of Psychiatry. We were fortunate to be among the many beneficiaries of Mr. Ruane's generosity. His charit
 SCOTT--Robert Montgomery 1929-2005. The Philadelphia Museum of Art's Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers mourn the passing of Robert Montgomery Scott, Honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees, who served as President of the Museum from 1982 until his retirement in 1996, and was one of
 SNOKE--Gerald R. October 18, 1921-July 18, 2005. ''Let me not to the marriage of true minds admit impediments. Love is not love which alters when it alteration finds or bends with the remover to remove. Love's not times fool ''though rosy lips and cheeks within his bending sickle's compass 
 WEINBERG--Sidney R., MD. On October 12, 2005 at age 93 in Lantana, FL. Formerly of Belle Harbor, NY and St. Croix, US Virgin Islands. He will be greatly missed by his wife Hilda Lasdon Weinberg, his children, Jane (Michael) Geltner, Emily (Stephen) Mendel, Winkler (Lynn) Weinberg, Elizabeth
 BROCKSCHMIDT--Harry G. The Baltic Linen Company mourns with profound regret the passing of Harry G. Brockschmidt, a senior member of their administration. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Joan, and his children and the rest of his family. He will be sorely missed. Marvin Greenber
 FARRELL--William R. III. We celebrate the life of our beloved son Billy gone 20 years this Sunday, October 16, 2005. Born: 3/22/66, Billy is in our prayers and thoughts everday. We cherish Billy's ongoing presence in our lives, his superb love of life, his wisdom and wit. With everlasting l
 BENGELSDORF--Jan David. 64, died on October 13, 2005. He brought love and laughter to his family and friends. He is survived by his loving grandchildren, Adam and Ashley, his wife Liz, his daughter Stacy, his son-in-law Cem, his mother Goldie, his aunt Marjorie and his sister Carol. We will
 LAUB--Joseph D. Born January 20, 1913, passed away on October 14, 2005. Husband of Evelyn, beloved father of Allen and Lynne, Michael and Carol, loving grandfather of Andrew, Amy, Allison, Gregory and Gillian, cherished great-grandfather of Melanie, Travis, Cooper, Nolan and Jackson. Joe ro
 WOLFE--Maynard Frank, on October 15th in his 77th year. Author, photojournalist, industrial designer, contract photographer, for ''Time,'' ''Life,'' ''Newsweek'' and other noted publications. He covered three wars, The White House, many outstanding motion pictures and much fast-breaking new
 Alvin M. Josephy Jr., a popular historian of the American West whose books chronicled the struggles of American Indians from the frontier era to the present day, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 90. Mr. Josephy's daughter Diane Josephy Peavey confirmed the death
 Ba Jin, one of China's most acclaimed writers and the author of several influential prerevolutionary novels about the brutality of Chinese feudal family life, died on Monday after a long hospitalization. He was 100. The cause was cancer, Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency, sai
 Edmund N. Bacon, a leading postwar urban planner who remade much of Philadelphia, died on Friday at his home there. He was 95. His death was confirmed by his daughter Elinor Bacon. As the executive director of the Philadelphia City Planning Commission from 1949 to 1970, Mr. 
 BOGART--Leo. We mourn the death of Dr. Leo Bogart, sociologist and media and public opinion and marketing expert, whose prodigious written work included 11 books. He died at Mount Sinai Hospital on Saturday, October 15, after a 10-week bout with Babesiosis. He was 84. Just prior to his deat
 LANDECHE--Scott James, 45, beloved husband of Adeline Ong Landeche, son of Margie and Harold Landeche Sr. of Luling, Louisiana, of complications from multiple myeloma at 4;55 AM, Saturday, October 15, 2005. Scott, a longtime native of Southeast Louisiana, had most recently resided in Brookl
 MANTON--Edwin A.G. The Mendelssohn Glee Club of New York mourns the passing of our longtime member and secretary, Sir Edwin A.G. (''Jim'') Manton. Jim joined the club in 1954 and ably sang with us as a second tenor for 40 years. Our condolences to his family.       
 MURDOCH--David A. Age 55, passed away October 15, 2005 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital with his loving companion Jennifer Wortham by his side. A graduate of Pittsburgh Law School and former CFO of Caron Foundation. Children are Ben and Sarah; brother Chip Murdoch; sister-in-law Debbie.
 PADER--Elmer, M.D. On October 15, 2005. Beloved husband to Cynthia (Schwimer). Father of Carol (Allen), Jane (Roger), Deborah (Gary), Nancy (Alan). Devoted grandfather of Jill, Shari, Tracy, Amy and Matt. He was an attending physician at Mount Sinai Hospital and an Associate Professor of Me
 Aleksandr N. Yakovlev, a historian, propagandist and diplomat and an architect of Mikhail S. Gorbachev's political reforms in the Soviet Union during the 1980's, died Tuesday at his home in Moscow. He was 81 and died after being hospitalized earlier in the day. Once a committed Comm
 Arthur W. Wang, co-founder of the intrepid publishing house of Hill & Wang, which took a chance on the early work of Elie Wiesel and Roland Barthes and was known for its Dramabooks series and books on American history, died on Friday in Wellesley, Mass. He was 87. The cause was comp
 Leo Bogart, a sociologist, author and marketing specialist who was known for studying the role of the mass media in culture, died Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause of death was babesiosis, a parasitic disease that is transmitted by ticks, said his w
 FEITH--Dalck. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the death of of Dalck Feith. An early Founder of the Museum, he also served as a member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for ten years. As a Holocaust survivor, World War II veteran and respected philanthropist,
 JOSEPHY--Alvin M., Jr. It is with deep sadness that the Horace Mann School notes the passing of Alvin M. Josephy, Jr., Class of 1932. A long-standing friend of the School, he was a socially committed man of exemplary intellect, integrity and vision. In 1996 the Horace Mann Alumni Associatio
 KATZ--Murray S. On October 18, 2005 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Natalie. Survived by numerous nieces, nephews, great nieces and nephews and cousins. He had a large giving and loving heart. Services Thursday, October 20, 10 AM at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave, NY, NY.
 KNOOP--Raymond R., 86. On October 17, 2005 passed away after a long and courageously fought battle with Parkinson's disease. Best known and recognized for his integrity, loyalty and ever giving personality; he was a true man in every sense of the word, respected and loved by all that knew h
 MOSCOVICI--Willy G., M.D. On October 18, 2005. We mourn the death of Dr. Willy Moscovici an outstanding physician, an innovator in his field and fully dedicated to his patients. He was loved by his family, friends, and his patients. He will be missed by all. He leaves behind his wife Elisa,
 PADER--Elmer, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Barry Stimmel, MD, Pres. Elliot Rayfield, MD, V.P. Steven Itzkowitz, MD, Sec'y Martin Goldst
 SKLAR--Sidney. On October 16, 2005 after a valiant battle against lung cancer. Devoted and loving husband of Renee, father of Kathy and Leslie, grandpa of Jackie and Rachel. A special friend to everyone who knew him. Services today 10:30 AM, at ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapel,'' Que
 HARRIS--George Munson. George Munson Harris died in the loving embrace of his wife Suzanne and surrounded by his children and grandchildren on October 18, 2005. He was born October 14, 1924, in Albany, NY, attended Albany Academy and Lawrenceville School, and received his BA from Princeton 
 JASPER--Seymour (Sy). On October 16 after a long battle. He leaves behind his beloved Barbara, four children, Michael, Ronald, Jeffrey and Idylia, five grandchildren and eleven great grandchildren. All who knew him loved him, and we shall all miss him.       
 KATZ--Hyman. The Board of Governors and Members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, FL acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed Member Hy Katz. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Dini and their family. Robert Rachesky, President $(6$)KATZ--Murray S
 KUNATH--Robert J. October 16, 2005. Life long friend to wife Joell. Wise and loving father to Victoria and Abigail. Distinguished businessman, passionate sailor and mentor to many. We will remember and admire always his incredible humor, integrity and courage. Memorial celebration to be ann
 MOSCOVICI--Willy G., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our good friend and long time colleague, Willy G. Moscovici, M.D., a member of the hospital's surgical faculty since 1973. To his wife Elisa, his daughter Rodica, the entire Mosco
 TAUBENFELD--David, 38, on October 19, 2005. Loving husband of Felicia, devoted father of Gabrielle and Gordon. Cherished son of Bea and Nat Taubenfeld and son-in-law of Bobbie and Gene Sapolsky. Adored brother of Ann and Jon, Jane and David, Sue and Richie, Bill and Lois, Ron and Brian. Rem
 WEINBERG--Dr. Sidney. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Dr. Sidney Weinberg, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President       
 DILL--Richard C. Beloved brother, died October 20, 1985. His memory is forever in my heart. Peter L. Dill       
 Edward R. Telling, who as chairman and chief executive of Sears, Roebuck & Company engineered its expansion into financial services in the 1980's, died Wednesday in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said Ernie Arms, a retired Sears spokesman who made the announ
 CHIN--Fung. The Research Foundation of The City University of New York is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our dear friend and colleague. Fung was greatly admired, highly respected, and a treasured friend of many within the Research Foundation and CUNY. His integrity, business acume
 FEITH - Dalck. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Dalck Feith, a leader who was devoted to Israel, the Jewish people and the cause of higher education. In 1978 Dalck received an honorary doctorate for his commitment to human
 GOLDBERG - Murray. 85, passed away on October 20, 2005. Devoted husband of Charlotte for 58 years. Beloved father of Alan and Janis Goldberg, Randy and Don Greenberg. Loving grandfather of Stacey and Michael Goldberg, David, Daniel, Amy and Robert Greenberg. A founder of Rhapsody Blouse and
 HERTZ--Harvey, patent attorney, who participated in the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo projects for NASA before moving to Los Angeles in 1968, died on Wednesday from Pick's Disease--a rare degenerative condition of the frontal lobe. He was 71. Harvey is lovingly survived by his wife, Gail Baum,
 KATZ--Murray S. The Officers, Board and staff of American ORT mourn the passing of Murray S. Katz, who, together with his beloved wife, Natalie, graced this organization with his deep commitment and generosity for over three decades. Murray served American ORT as both a Vice-President and A
 KOGEN--David. The Jewish Theological Seminary deeply mourns the death of Rabbi David Kogen, Vice Chancellor Emeritus and esteemed member of the community. His tenure at JTS spanned over four decades where he served under Chancellors Finkelstein, Cohen and Schorsch and dedicated his life to 
 SANTOIANNI--John Blaise. On July 15, 2005, St Vincent's Hospital, NYC. We deeply mourn the loss of our cherished John. John's vibrant and extraodinary spirit-his ability to engage, enchant, connect and comfort-touched everyone he knew on the most profound level. Beloved agent in the NY thea
 TRIBBIE--Joe, 49, of Manhattan, died during the night October 20, 2005. Survived by his loving partner, Gilbert Cole; mother, Pat; sister, Judy; and brother, Mike; and scores of friends and colleagues who will always cherish his grace and love. Joe's contributions to helping people living w
 VARANDANI--Raj. The Department of Psychiatry at the Long Island College Hospital extends heartfelt condolences to our Associate Chairman Ravindra Amin, his wife Meenakshi and his motherin-law Laxmi Varandani on the untimely and tragic passing of Raj, a beloved son, brother and brother-in-la
 CARPENITO--Dominic. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, a profoundly kind and devoted man; a man who was a tremendous source of support to us for over a quarter of a century. Our sincere condolences to his wife Linda and to his children Dominic, Linda and Anthony. Elsie Goldberg Bernar
 Sidney Geist, a sculptor, teacher and art writer who became a leading authority on the Romanian sculptor Constantin Brancusi, died Tuesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Daniel Geist. A prolific
 Barrington Moore Jr., a Harvard sociologist whose studies of the contemporary human condition led him to dissect the totalitarian society, particularly as it evolved in the Soviet Union, died last Sunday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 92. His death was announced by the unive
 Jean-Michel Folon, the Belgian-born illustrator, poster designer and sculptor, whose surreal watercolors of lost Everymen and soaring birdmen helped to define the conceptual approach to editorial illustration, died on Thursday in Monaco. He was 71. The cause was leukemia, said his a
 GOLDBERG -- Murray. 85, passed away on October 20, 2005. Devoted husband of Charlotte for 58 years. Beloved father of Alan and Janis Goldberg, Randy and Don Greenberg. Loving grandfather of Stacey and Michael Goldberg, David, Daniel, Amy and Robert Greenberg. A founder of Rhapsody Blouse an
 HALSBAND--Hyman, 97. Of Hackensack, New Jersey and Hallandale Beach, FL. Passed away Thursday, October 20, 2005. Husband of the late Gertrude. Survived by his beloved wife, Blanche, sons David Halsband and Richard Dimond, daughters Ronnie Jacobs & Victoria Halsband. Loved by his dearest eig
 KORN--Peter Harold. Former Sr. Vice President of GVA Williams Real Estate Company, 73, of New York and Boca Raton, FL. died October 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Jane Small Korn, son of the late Jeanne and Charles Korn, loved brother of Claire and Richard Yaffa, uncle to Cathy and Richard Ya
 LERNER--Arnold A. Died October 11, 2005. Loving husband of the late Rita Lerner, son of the late Louis & Sophie Lerner, brother of the late Mortimer Lerner. He is survived by sons James Lerner (Anita Springer) and Richard Lerner (Maureen McCarthy), grandchildren Keith and Lynn Lerner & neph
 STEINER--Erwin B. Died peacefully on October 20, 2005 at 85. He leaves behind his loving wife Nancy, his son Christopher, stepsons Thomas and Frank Caccamo, grandchildren Rhett, Kyra and Alexandra and stepbrother Gerald Eisner. Erwin will be remembered for his generosity, humor, warmth, wit
 PINGITORE -- Nicholas E., M.D., on October 19, 2005. Dearly loved by his wife Josephine Vedovi Pingitore. Loving father of Diane Pingitore Elliott and Nicholas E. Pingitore, Jr. Adoring grandfather of Amy C. Elliott and Henry P. Elliott III. Very fond father-in-law of Henry P. Elliott, Jr. 
 CURRAN--Lt. James. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, James Curran, retired FDNY lieutenant and president of the New York Firefighters Burn Center Foundation, where, for nearly 30 years, he gave his tireless energy and support to the Hearst Burn Center at NewYork-Pres
 GELFAND--M. David. August 12, 1949 to September 25, 2005. We mourn the death of our dear friend David, loving and beloved husband of Mary, father of Katie, son of Ann Malmer. Ashton Phelps Chair and Professor of Law, Tulane University Law School. Brilliant legal scholar, inspiring teacher, 
 GOLDBERG - Murray. 85, passed away on October 20, 2005. Devoted husband of Charlotte for 58 years. Beloved father of Alan and Janis Goldberg, Randy and Don Greenberg. Loving grandfather of Stacey and Michael Goldberg, David, Daniel, Amy and Robert Greenberg. A founder of Rhapsody Blouse and
 HAZEN--Jonathan Lindenfeld. On August 26, 2005, age 43. Beloved husband of Ann Donaldson Hazen, devoted son of Kathleen Dark. Founder and 1st violinist of the Mariani String Quartet; music producer for Telly award-winning documentary ''Death in America.'' He faced his long and debilitating 
 JASPER--Seymour (Sy). On October 16 after a long battle. He leaves behind his beloved Barbara, four children, Michael, Ronald, Jeffrey and Idylia, five grandchildren and eleven great grandchildren. All who knew him loved him, and we shall all miss him.       
 KOGEN--Rabbi David C. The Joint Retirement Board for Conservative Judaism notes with profound sorrow the passing of Rabbi David C. Kogen, a trustee since 1959. He headed the Nominations Committee for many years, served as Board Chairperson in 1989 and 1990, and was instrumental in arranging
 KOHLER -- Peter Francis., MD (1935-2005). Princeton '57; Columbia Medical School '61. Professor of Medicine, University of Colorado; Harvey Chair Clinical Immunology, Tulane University. Survived by wife Christa Eckert Kohler, MD, his sister, three sons, and two grand-sons. Memorial service 
 KORN--Peter Harold. Former Sr. Vice President of GVA Williams Real Estate Company, 73, of New York and Boca Raton, FL. died October 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Jane Small Korn, son of the late Jeanne and Charles Korn, loved brother of Claire and Richard Yaffa, uncle to Cathy and Richard Ya
 KUNATH--Robert J. October 16, 2005. Life long friend to wife Joell. Wise and loving father to Victoria and Abigail. Distinguished businessman, passionate sailor and mentor to many. We will remember and admire always his incredible humor, integrity and courage. Memorial celebration to be ann
 LEHNEIS--H. Richard, Ph.D., C.P.O., 72. Born in Frankfurt, Germany. Died October 15 in NYC. He was founder of Lehneis Orthotics and Prosthetics Associates, Ltd. and was a researcher, teacher, mentor and inventor who held patents on eight devices. Dr. Lehneis was recognized globally for the 
 LERNER--Arnold A. Died October 11, 2005. Loving husband of the late Rita Lerner, son of the late Louis & Sophie Lerner, brother of the late Mortimer Lerner. He is survived by sons James Lerner (Anita Springer) and Richard Lerner (Maureen McCarthy), grandchildren Keith and Lynn Lerner & neph
 MOONEY--Robert Knapp. Former Vice Chairman of Allied Van Lines and Chairman of Hartford Despatch, has died. He was 85. A lifelong resident of Connecticut until his retirement, Mr. Mooney was chosen as the state's Small Businessman of the Year in 1987. Son of Edward G. and Grace K. Mooney, h
 PERCELL--Daniel. Age 91, died Friday, October 21. An expert piano tuner and technician, a haiku poet, and a warm, caring man, he was loved by many, past and present, including his surviving children, Peter Percell and Marion Percell Fish, and his grandchildren, Rebecca and Benjamin Fish. He
 PERROTTA - Emilio. Born September 21, 1927, died October 12, 2005. Survivors include his wife Lillian, children Francesca Layne, Eric Perrotta, Nicholas Perrotta, Roseann Critelli, 11 grandchildren & 1 great grandson.       
 PHILLIPS - Robert. Passed away at age 83, after a brief illness, in Florida, on October 21, 2005. He is survived by Eleanor, his wife of 55 years, his daughter Randi and her husband Robert Krieger, his son Steven and his wife Wendy, and his granddaughters, Rebecca and Elizabeth. He adored t
 QUINN--Charles. We are saddened by the loss of our former colleague, Charles Quinn. He was an outstanding realtor and very generous person. We extend our condolences to his family. Tishman Speyer       
 ZOLAS--Dr. Edward, October 17, 2005. Concert pianist, music educator and beloved brother of Fimi Hatabian Zolas Cohen. $(6$)ZOLAS--Edward, Ph.D. We mourn the unexpected loss of our great piano teacher. He was part of the highest classical music tradition, one of only three pianists 
 PINGITORE -- Nicholas E., M.D., on October 19, 2005. Dearly loved by his wife Josephine Vedovi Pingitore. Loving father of Diane Pingitore Elliott and Nicholas E. Pingitore, Jr. Adoring grandfather of Amy C. Elliott and Henry P. Elliott III. Very fond father-in-law of Henry P. Elliott, Jr. 
 COHEN--George S. A true New Yorker, he is sorely missed by his friends and neighbors, and remembered for his kindness and generosity towards others. Survived by his nephew, Barry.       
 ELAHI--Cyrus. One with love in his heart never dies.       
 Penn Kemble, who marshaled his skills as a political organizer, theorist and writer to champion a sterner approach by the American government to undemocratic regimes, died Oct. 16 at his home in Washington. He was 64. The cause was brain cancer, said his friend Joshua Muravchik, a r
 ARMAN--Armand P. On October 22, 2005. Husband of Corice Canton Arman. Father of Yasmine Valentine and Philippe Alexandre. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Wednesday, 6-9 pm, with service Thursday, 5:30 pm. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may
 BLINKEN -- Robert James. April 18, 1929-October 22, 2005. Survived by his wife Allison, his brothers Donald and Alan, his children Robert Blinken, Rachael Herz, Anna Lonergan and Ingrid Blinken, his grandchildren Danna, Jonathan and Adam Herz, Jared Blinken and Wylie and Oscar Lonergan.    
 BONDA--Alva ''Ted.'' At age 88, passed away on October 22, in Pepper Pike, OH, from complications of Alzheimer's. Beloved husband of the late Marie (Ermisch), loving father of Penny, Joel and Thomas (Jodi Hamburger) Bonda. Devoted grandfather of Deborah Miller and Jeffrey Solomon, and David
 KOHLER -- Peter Francis., MD (1935-2005). Princeton '57; Columbia Medical School '61. Professor of Medicine, University of Colorado; Harvey Chair Clinical Immunology, Tulane University. Survived by wife Christa Eckert Kohler, MD, his sister, three sons, and two grand-sons. Memorial service 
 LOEB--Scott R. Age five, after a long courageous battle with cancer. Beloved son of Debbie and Larry, cherished brother of Brett. Adored grandson of Phyllis and Bob Tunick and Carole and Sheldon Loeb. Much loved nephew of Sandi and Jason Kroll, Helaine and Charlie Lippman and Lenny and Shar
 QUINN--Charles. We are saddened by the loss of our former colleague, Charles Quinn. He was an outstanding realtor and very generous person. We extend our condolences to his family. Tishman Speyer       
 RABER - Murray. Died peacefully in Houston, TX, at age 94, on October 21st, 2005. He leaves behind his wife Lila, children Martin and Susan, and grandchildren Ann, Michael, Katherine, Margaret, Ben and Kaitlan. He led a wonderful life and will be remembered by all who knew him.       
 SHAW--Irving F. On October 22, 2005. Adoring and devoted husband of Pauline for almost 67 years. Beloved father of Rochelle Slovin and Martin Shaw, loving brother of Ruth Newman, Sylvia Small and Leon Schertzer, fond grandfather of Karl Slovin, Eric Slovin, Adam Shaw and Kayla Shaw, delight
 David Eliot McGiffert, a Washington lawyer and former Pentagon official who dealt with domestic security during the antiwar and racial disorders of the late 1960's, died on Oct. 12 at his home in Washington. He was 79. The cause was a heart ailment, his family said. Mr. McGi
 Michael Ward, an English surgeon and mountaineer who in 1953 was the expedition doctor on the historic ascent of Mount Everest -- and whose discoveries in a dusty archive a few years earlier helped make achieving the summit possible -- died on Oct. 7 at his home near Petworth in West Sussex
 ARMAN--Armand P. On October 22, 2005. Husband of Corice Canton Arman. Father of Yasmine Valentine and Philippe Alexandre. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Wednesday, 6-9 pm, with service Thursday, 11:30am. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may
 BLINKEN -- Robert James. April 18, 1929-October 22, 2005. Survived by his wife, Allison; his brothers, Donald and Alan; his children, Robert Blinken, Rachel Herz, Anna Lonergan and Ingrid Blinken; his grandchildren, Danna, Jonathan and Adam Herz, Jared Blinken and Wylie and Oscar Lonergan. 
 CASDIN--Jeffrey Whitman. On October 23. Beloved husband of Sharon. Devoted father of Adam (Blair), Alex (Susie), and Eli (Jenn). Delighted grandfather of Zoe, Isadora, Kinsey and Leason. Services Thursday, 11 AM, at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83 Street, New York City. In lieu of flo
 HOROWITZ--Murray, age 84, passed away unexpectedly on October 24th, at home with his loving wife of 63 years, Phyllis, at his side. Devoted father of Larry and Steven Horowitz and Barby Friedman, and father-in-law for many years to Iris Klaiman, Lisa Horowitz and the late Laurence Friedman.
 KISSLER--Gerald, of Englewood, NJ, on October 23, 2005. Beloved husband of Sandra. Dear father of Sharon Goldstein, Barry Kissler, Glenn Kissler and the late Steven Kissler. Loving grandfather of Lindsay, Michael, Chelsea, Benjamin, Joshua, Zachary, Matthew, Remy, Gregory, Jeffrey, Jared, E
 KOGEN--David C., Rabbi The Trustees, Officers, and Members of Beth Emeth Synagogue, Larchmont, N.Y. note with sorrow the death of Rabbi David C. Kogen, father of our Rabbi, Judah Kogen, and extend our condolences to him and his family. Spencer Barback, President       
 NOTT--Dr. Perry J. He was born and raised in Long Beach, NY where he practiced medicine for more than forty years and served as the Director of the Department of Family Practice from 1977 to 1982 at Long Beach Memorial Hospital. He was a graduate of George Washington University and the Univ
 PEACE--John H., 81, of Purchase, NY and Fort Lauderdale, FL, died on October 22, 2005, at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, NY. He was born on November 20, 1923 to Thomas and Ella (nee Curry) Peace in NYC. John served in the US Army during World War II. He was an advertising execut
 RIEFBERG - Leonard. The family of Leonard Reifberg mourns his passing on October 23, 2005. He was a loving husband of Sari, and a devoted father, adored grandfather, caring brother, and special uncle. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, October 27, 10 AM, at Gutterman's Funeral Home,
 WHITESELL--Thomas Guy of Croton/Tarrytown, NY and Cape Cod, MA. Film and TV producer, passed away with dignity on October 21, 2005 surrounded by his loving wife Nancy, children and grandchildren. Services will be held on October 29th from 3 to 6 PM at Edward F. Carter Funeral Home in Croton
 URBACZEWSKI -- Theodore C. (Ted) Jr. Age 55 of Stratford, Connecticut formerly of New York City passed away on Sunday, October 23, 2005 in his home. Ted was a retired Vice President at Morgan Stanley in New York City. Funeral services will take place on Thursday October 27, 2005 at 10:15 A.
 Tony Adams, a film and stage producer best known for his enduring collaboration with the director Blake Edwards on ''Victor/Victoria'' and the many returns of the ''Pink Panther,'' died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived on the Upper West Side. The
 Marshall Clagett, a scholar of science in ancient Egypt and Greece and the way it was received in medieval Europe, died on Oct. 21 at a hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Princeton. His death was announced by the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, where he wa
 ARMAN--Armand P. On October 22, 2005. Husband of Corice Canton Arman. Father of Yasmine Valentine and Philippe Alexandre. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Wednesday, 6-9 pm, with service Thursday, 11:30am. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may
 BLINKEN -- Robert James. April 18, 1929-October 22, 2005. Survived by his wife, Allison; his brothers, Donald and Alan; his children, Robert Blinken, Rachel Herz, Anna Lonergan and Ingrid Blinken; his grandchildren, Danna, Jonathan and Adam Herz, Jared Blinken and Wylie and Oscar Lonergan. 
 CASDIN--Jeffrey Whitman. On October 23. Beloved husband of Sharon. Devoted father of Adam (Blair), Alex (Susie), and Eli (Jenn). Delighted grandfather of Zoe, Isadora, Kinsey and Leason. Services Thursday, 11 AM, at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83 Street, New York City. In lieu of flo
 HOROWITZ--Murray. Age 84, passed away unexpectedly on October 24, 2005 at home with Phyllis, his loving wife of 63 years, by his side. Mr. Horowitz, a long time resident of Palm Beach, formerly resided in Woodmere and Manhasset. He was a founder and owner of Muray Textiles, a converting fir
 KOGEN--Rabbi David C. Passed away with his beloved wife Dena (Rosenblum) at his hospital bedside. Much loved father of Rabbi Judah (and Lisa), Rabbi Avram (and Linda), Ben Zion (and Gail), and Noam. Revered grandfather of Shira, Ilana, Abigail, Mira, Dov, Michal, Michal, Seffi, and Matan. H
 LOEB--Scott. Is it with great sadness the entire Woodcrest Club family mourns the passing of little Scott Loeb who lost his battle with cancer. We extend to Debbie, Larry and Brett our condolences on the lost of this tough little boy. The grandson of longtime members Phyllis and Bob Tunick,
 MARA--Wellington. On October 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Ann Mara. Loving father of John Mara, Susan McDonnell, Chris Mara, Stephen Mara, Frank Mara, Sheila Durkin, Kathy Morehouse, Maureen Brown, Ann Marie Cacase, Meghan Brennan, and Colleen McLane. Cherished grandfather of forty grandchi
 QUINN--Charles C. It is with deep regret that the Realty Advisory Board announces that its former chairman, Charles C. Quinn, died on October 20, 2005. Mr. Quinn was associated with the Realty Advisory Board and the real estate industry for 27 years providing guidance, direction, and suppor
 MARCHETTI--Augustus A. 89. Of Metuchen, formerly of Bellrose, Queens, died Monday in Edison, NJ. He was an Army veteran and a retired attorney for the NYC D.A.'s office and a retired U.S. Attorney. Visitation Wednesday 24 & 7-9 pm at Costello-Runyon Funeral Home, Metuchen, NJ. Services Thur
 Robert H. Johnston, an archaeologist who helped develop a way to read ancient texts blackened or faded by time, including the Dead Sea Scrolls, died last Wednesday at his home in Brighton, N.Y. He was 77. He spent more than a month in the hospital recently after several minor falls 
 Wellington Mara, the patriarch of the National Football League, who served as a ball boy for the leather-helmeted 1925 Giants and later turned the team -- founded by his father -- into one of the marquee names in professional sports, died yesterday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 89.       
 ADAM--Philip. Age 91, on October 26, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy, loving father of Isobel, Henry, and Elaine. Dear grandfather of Matthew, Jessica, Colin, and Robert. Much admired by his many friends and colleagues after a long life filled with accomplishments and great humani
 ARMAN--Armand P. On October 22, 2005. Husband of Corice Canton Arman. Father of Yasmine Valentine and Philippe Alexandre. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Wednesday, 6-9 pm, with service Thursday, 11:30am. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may
 BLINKEN--Robert James. April 18, 1929-October 22, 2005. Survived by his wife, Allison; his brothers, Donald and Alan; his children, Robert Blinken, Rachel Herz, Anna Lonergan and Ingrid Blinken; his grandchildren, Danna, Jonathan and Adam Herz, Jared Blinken and Wylie and Oscar Lonergan. A 
 CASDIN--Jeffrey Whitman. On October 23. Beloved husband of Sharon. Devoted father of Adam (Blair), Alex (Susie), and Eli (Jenn). Delighted grandfather of Zoe, Isadora, Kinsey and Leason. Services Thursday, 11 AM, at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83 Street, New York City. In lieu of flo
 GEROLD--William F. Beloved husband of Ruth Baran, devoted father of Sam. An educator extraordinaire and loyal friend. He left the world better than he found it. Services Thursday 11:15AM, Parkside Chapels, Queens Blvd at 66th Ave, Forest Hills, NY.       
 HOROWITZ--Murray. Age 84, passed away unexpectedly on October 24, 2005 at home with Phyllis, his loving wife of 63 years, by his side. Mr. Horowitz, a long time resident of Palm Beach, formerly resided in Woodmere and Manhasset. He was a founder and owner of Muray Textiles, a converting fir
 JANDORF--H. David, 78. Died unexpectedly October 24, 2005. Raised in Pittsburgh, PA and veteran of World War II. Graduate of Manhattan School of Music. Pupil of William Vacchiano. He spent many years playing trumpet for symphony orchestras in Chile and in the U.S. He toured with the Boston 
 MARA--Wellington. On October 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Ann Mara. Loving father of John Mara, Susan McDonnell, Chris Mara, Stephen Mara, Frank Mara, Sheila Durkin, Kathy Morehouse, Maureen Brown, Ann Marie Cacase, Meghan Brennan, and Colleen McLane. Cherished grandfather of forty grandchi
 MARKS--Edward B. The U.S. Fund for UNICEF deeply regrets the passing of Edward Marks, former UNICEF official and USF board member and lifelong advocate for children around the world. Throughout his career, Mr. Marks used his voice to help bring dignity and opportunity to the world's poorest
 QUINN--Charles C. It is with deep regret that the Realty Advisory Board announces that its former chairman, Charles C. Quinn, died on October 20, 2005. Mr. Quinn was associated with the Realty Advisory Board and the real estate industry for 27 years providing guidance, direction, and suppor
 RUNSDORF--Jim H. The staff at SBWE, Inc. Real Estate mourns the untimely loss of our friend & colleague Jim Runsdorf. Jim's tenure at SBWE will always be remembered with the highest regard for his integrity, spirit and humor. He touched everyone who had contact with him. He will be deeply m
 SHAMES - Abraham, who built the 1st Industrial Park in the Northeastern US in 195659, died on Sunday October 16, 2005 in Sarasota, Florida. The Westbury Industrial Park, located off Brush Hollow Road on 28 acre tract, bears his name: Shames Drive. He also built and developed the 60 acre, Ca
 WEINRAUB--Kurt, died Monday, of North Bergen, NJ. Beloved husband of Susan. Devoted father of Michael and his wife Karin and Eric and his wife Marylou. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan, Alissa, Steven and Kenneth. Brother of Jacob. ''We love you very much.'' Services 11:30AM today at Louis
 SAVAGE--David. October 27, 1989. Remembered always, with love, by his Family.       
 ADAM--Philip. Age 91, on October 26, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy, loving father of Isobel, Henry, and Elaine. Dear grandfather of Matthew, Jessica, Colin, and Robert. Much admired by his many friends and colleagues after a long life filled with accomplishments and great humani
 ALTMAN--Melvyn. Died on October 27, 2005. Son of the late Edith. Survived by his father David. Loving brother of Louise Stern and Alan.       
 BERNSTEIN -- Julian. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Betsy, sons Michael, David and to the entire family. Aubrey L. Glazer, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Em
 BONNEY--Frederick. 84, of Rahway, NJ. Died peacefully at home on Thursday, October 27, 2005. Predeceased by his cherished laughing wife, Lillian. Survived by son Frederick and daughters Mary Ellen and Szuzy, niece Mary Clark, four grandchidren and seven great grandchildren, numerous friends
 LANDRY--Lionel. On October 26, 2005. Beloved husband of Ruth C.K.M. Landry, father of Peter K.M. Landry, Lisa Anderson, and Christine Thevenard, brother of Paul Landry, Charlotte Lepoutre, and Jacqueline Johns, and grandfather of two. A Mass will be held on October 29 at 11:30 A.M. at Sacre
 LEVITHAN--Lou. January 11, 1912-October 26, 2005. LUCK and LOVE. LEVITHAN--Louis, age 93, on October 26, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Alice. Survived by his sons, Allen, Jack and Robert and daughters-inlaw Beth and Roberta, brothers Harold and Morris and sisters Gladys Grody an
 MARA--Wellington T. The Sisters of Saint Dominic of Blauvelt, New York express heartfelt sympathy to the Mara family on the passing of Mr. Wellington Mara, a GIANT among us. Our long history with the Mara family has its origin in 1923 when Mr. Timothy Mara, founder of the New York Giants, m
 NACHBAR--William. 82, died of cancer on Monday, October 24, 2005, at his home in La Jolla, CA. He was born April 25, 1923 in Brooklyn, NY. He was the eldest of three sons of Daniel and Rosa Nachbar and was predeceased by his brothers, Martin and Edwin. He is survived by his wife Pauline Nac
 ROSEN--Barbara. The LeFrak family, the LeFrak Organization, and its employees extend deepest condolences to longtime friend and business associate David Rosen, his children, Darin Rosen and Lana Rosenberg, and their entire family on the passing of Barbara Rosen. We extend our heartfelt symp
 GRINELL--Dr. Richard N. Died on September 5, 2005, after a long battle with lung disease will be remembered in a memorial service on Sunday, October 30, 2 P.M., Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 St at Amsterdam Ave. All are invited to come together to honor his memory.       
 Rong Yiren, a wealthy entrepreneur and former vice president of China who in the 1970's was asked by Deng Xiaoping to help initiate some of the nation's earliest economic reforms, died Wednesday in Beijing. He was 89. His death was reported by the New China News Agency. Mr. 
 Alastair G. W. Cameron, a Harvard astrophysicist who helped develop a revolutionary theory to explain how the Moon was formed, died Oct. 3 at his home in Tucson. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Dr. Cameron's famous work, known as the giant impact the
 Michael Gill, a British television producer and director best known in this country for innovative ''authored documentary'' series like ''Civilisation'' (1969), featuring Lord Kenneth Clark, and ''America'' (1972), with Alistair Cooke, died on Oct. 20 at a London hospital. A London resident
 COHEN--Jay David. Died at his home in Jerusalem on October 19, 2005 in the presence of his wife, Sarale, son Bezalel (Lydia), and his four grandchildren. Also survived by another son, Daniel. Jay was deeply loved by his family and many friends. Martin and his wife Shirley will be at his hom
 HOFFMAN--Paul. Of Boca Raton, FL. and Fearrington Village, NC, on October 26, 2005. Born in Brooklyn, New York on November 6, 1919, Paul's successful career as a manufacturer and retailer in the garment industry was launched by a 12-word ad placed in a 1937 New York Times seeking ''anything
 MARA--Wellington. We deeply mourn the loss of Wellington Mara, the great patriarch of the New York Giants football team. He was an ideal partner, a wonderful person, and most of all a great family man who extended the feeling of ''family'' to the entire Giants team. We send our deepest cond
 METZGER--Marvin H. On October 28. Devoted and beloved husband, father and grandfather to Maxine his wife, Carol and Robin his daughters, and Sally his precious granddaughter. Loving brother of his sisters Florence and her husband Harry James, Hortense and her husband David Serby and caring 
 MURRAY--James W., 80, On October 28, 2005, of Ramsey, NJ. Beloved husband of Dolores (nee O'Connor) Murray for 51 years. Loving father of Anne, Ellen, Kathy and James. Adored grandfather of Brian Jr., Matthew, Chelsea, Leeland, Madeline and Colleen. Dear brother of Marie Riley. James was a 
 RUNSDORF--James Henri. Devoted member of Power Ten New York, his tragic loss is mourned by the rowing community worldwide. His passion, dedication, and presence will be truly missed. To his wife Nina, his daughters, and the rest of his family, we express our warmest and deepest sympathy. Th
 WHITE--Don. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Thirteen/ WNET New York, we express our deep sadness at the passing of our longtime colleague Don White, manager of financial planning and analysis. A kind and thoughtful man, Don could be counted on to conduct his prof
 WHITMAN--Jules I. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and American Associates, Ben-Gurion University sadly mourn the loss of one of our great leaders, Jules I. Whitman. Introduced to the University through his beloved wife Aileen, Jules served as former AABGU President, Chairman of the Board
 Richard E. Smalley, the Rice University chemistry professor who shared a Nobel Prize for discovering a new spherical form of carbon and championed the potential of nanotechnology to create a more sustainable economy, died Friday at 62 at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. 
 Dr. Frederic Quitkin, a psychiatrist whose research helped establish that certain kinds of depression could best be treated with medications and that schizophrenia was related to neurological impairments rather than problems of childhood, died on Oct. 9 in New York. He was 68. The c
 BEREZUK--Harry G., 78 years old, died October 12, 2005, of pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his daughter, Corinne M. Berezuk and his son-in-law, Michael A. Stieber. The family will receive guests at the Heights and Hill Funeral Directors at 115 Atlantic Avenue, Brooklyn Heights, New Yor
 BERNSTEIN--Julian. Of Harrison, NY. Julian's fellow board members at Hillels of Westchester mourn the loss of our good friend and colleague. We already feel his absence. Stuart Kolbert, President Shira Shimoni, Director       
 FORAN--Thomas. Thomas Shannon, Baron Foran, duc de Saint Bar, died October 15, at home in Neuilly-Sur-Seine, France, after a long illness. Baron Foran was born in New Haven, CT. In 1943, he volunteered as a paratrooper and joined the 82nd Airborne division, serving in the African, Sicilian,
 GOLDSTEIN--Richard N. 79, of Spencertown, NY on October 26, 2005. Born in Rochester, NY, he was a veteran of WWII, a graduate of Cornell University and Yale Law School. Mr. Goldstein had a long career in labor and employment law in New York City and Westchester. Twenty years of his career w
 GORDON--Robert Emmet, M.D. In Naples, FL, on October 27, 2005. He is survived by his wife, Shirley Graham Dillon, and seven children, John, James, Robert, Thomas, Ann O'Grady, Susan Palma and Ellen Smith, and four stepchildren, Thomas, Stephen and Michael Dillon and Marcia Reffel as well as
 GROSS - Bernard. Bernard ''Bernie'' Gross left us peacefully in his Merrick home on October 28, 2005. Born in New York City on July 16, 1919, Bernie grew up in the Bronx with his sister Rose and parents Grace and Harry. He graduated from De Witt Clinton High School, and then from CCNY in 19
 LEONARD--Edward James, Jr. Age 86, of Locust Valley, NY, on October 28, 2005. Survived by his loving wife Eileen and devoted daughter Deborah Diabo (Walter). Mass of Christian Burial at St. Mary's R.C. Church, Roslyn, NY, Monday, 10 AM. Burial Locust Valley Cemetery. Donations to PBA Widow 
 METZGER--Marvin H. On October 28. Devoted and beloved husband, father and grandfather to Maxine his wife, Carol and Robin his daughters, and Sally his precious granddaughter. Loving brother of his sisters Florence and her husband Harry James, Hortense and her husband David Serby and caring 
 MONNESS--Arnold. On October 29, 2005. Loving uncle of Andrew. Dear great-uncle of Jane Brickman, William and Matthew Monness. He will be missed by all the people of Monness, Crespi & Hardt. Service Sunday, 12:45 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street at Amsterdam Avenue.       
 NAGLER--Sidney. Born New York City, October 1, 1911died Boca Raton, FL. October 23, 2005. One of the kindest, gentlest people has left our midst. He never aspired for great wealth or power. He just sought to be one good man among many. And, at that, he was enormously successful. He was a bo
 PORTMAN--Robert, Sr. The Association mourns the loss of Robert Portman, principal of Karo Sheet Metal, Inc. Bob had been an active and valued member for many years as well as a friend. Bob was the Association's Treasurer and served as a member of the Board of Directors, a Trustee on the Loc
 ROTH--J. Paul, 82. Long time resident of Ossining, NY, on October 8, 2005. He had been on IBM's research staff at the Research Division, Yorktown Heights, NY, for 34 years. Previously Manager of Research Division's Applied Combinatorial Mathematics Department, Laboratory Manager of Logic Au
 RUNSDORF--James Henri. Devoted member of Power Ten New York, his tragic loss is mourned by the rowing community worldwide. His passion, dedication, and presence will be truly missed. To his wife Nina, his daughters, and the rest of his family, we express our warmest and deepest sympathy. Th
 SCHULMAN--Jack, 90. Founder and Director, American Branch of Cambridge University Press. Jack Schulman, died peacefully at his home in Cathedral City, CA. on October 25, 2005. Mr. Schulman, born in Germany, came to America when he was 10 years old. After receiving his B.B.A. from St. John's
 SHEROVER--Charles Milton. Aged 83, Of Santa Fe, NM, formerly of New York City, NY. Died October 25, 1005 in Santa Fe. Son of Maxmillian and Anna Sherover, survived by his sister, Viva Gillio (wife of the late Rocco), niece Victoria, nephews Robert and Matthew, great nieces Sarah, Anna, Amy,
 SODERQUIST--Larry D. 61, securities law expert, died August 20, 2005, at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, as a result of an automobile accident on July 3, 2005. Mr. Soderquist was born in Ypsilanti, MI, and received a BS from Eastern Michigan University (1966), JD from H
 WALTHER -- Karl Ernest. Passed away at home in Cardiff-By-The-Sea, CA, on October 13, 2005. Born in New York City on September 17, 1937, to Ernest Walther and Geraldine Gristede Walther, he is survived by his beloved wife Noemi Balinth, Ph.D. In lieu of flowers gifts may be made in his name
 YAVEL--Murray. On October 24, 2005 of natural causes in Greenport, New York. He was 96. A loving father, grandfather and great-grandfather, he was predeceased by his wife Rose in 1975 and son Michael in 1986. He is survived by his brother Dave Yavel & sister Bea D'Angelo; his children, Herb
 Phil Hays, an illustrator and teacher, whose lush watercolor portraits of legendary blues artists like Bessie Smith and Billie Holiday for LP covers defined a distinctive graphic style of album art in the 1970's, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 74. Mr. Hays, who li
 Al Lopez, one of baseball's most prominent managers of the 1950's and the oldest member of the Baseball Hall of Fame, died yesterday in Tampa, Fla. He was 97 and had briefly returned to the spotlight this month when the Chicago White Sox franchise he managed to a pennant in 1959 finally ret
 John Elliott Jr., who for 17 years led one of the world's largest advertising agencies, Ogilvy & Mather, died on Saturday at a hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 84 and lived in Cross River, N.Y. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his wife, Eleanor Thomas Elliott. M
 Marvin Chodorow, an applied physicist and administrator at Stanford who helped refine the use of microwave tubes in improving radar, telecommunications, cancer treatments and other applications, died Oct. 17 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 92. Dr. Chodorow's family confirmed 
 COOKE--Jerry. A remarkable man and a master photographer. Passed away in his East Hampton home Thursday, October 27, 2005. Survived by his wife Mary Delaney Cooke, his daughter and son-in-law, Lauren and Peter McGrath and three grandchildren: Desmond, Eleanor and Theo Gregory. Jerry Cooke's
 ELLIOTT--John Jr. (Jock), 84. October 29, of a cerebral hemorrhage. Beloved husband of Eleanor Thomas Elliott and devoted brother of Osborn Elliott. Also survived by 10 nieces and nephews. Funeral service at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, 5th Ave. and 53rd St., 3 pm, Wednesday, November 2. In
 FENTON--Malcolm. 82, of NYC died October 29, 2005 from cancer, at home, attended by his sons and longtime companion, Roslyn Rubin. Born March 19, 1923, he grew up in Altoona, PA, the son of Sara and Alex Festenstein. He received his BA from W&J College, BS from Carnegie Tech, and MS from Un
 FORAN--Thomas. Thomas Shannon, Baron Foran, duc de Saint Bar, died October 15, at home in Neuilly-Sur-Seine, France, after a long illness. Baron Foran was born in New Haven, CT. In 1943, he volunteered as a paratrooper and joined the 82nd Airborne division, serving in the African, Sicilian,
 JACOBS--John H. 60, died on October 29, 2005, after a one year struggle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Marion Seltzer, his sons, Sammy and Simon, and his brother, Michael. A funeral will be held at Park West Riverside, Amsterdam and 76th Street, at 10 AM on Monday, Octo
 KAPLAN--Harold I., Esq., of Palm Beach, FL, October 28. Born in Boston, he lived in Westfield and Short Hills, NJ, before moving to Palm Beach in 1994. Mr. Kaplan was a patent attorney whose practice spanned 46 years and covered every area of intellectual property law. Mr. Kaplan, BS Mechan
 KRIMMER--Lee Albert, DDS. Age 77, of Oradell, NJ, died Saturday, October 29, 2005 at the Brighton Gardens Assisted Living Center in Paramus, NJ. Dr. Krimmer was born in Brooklyn, NY and attended Brooklyn College. He was a 1949 graduate of the University of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry. 
 SHUTTLEWORTH - Edwin. Formerly of Quogue, died on Saturday, October 29, at Peconic Landing, Greenport, NY, at 79 years of age. He was husband to Pat and father of Daphne, Teddy and Wesley and father-in-law to Gillian and Terese. He leaves behind a sister, Barbara Clemmons of Wilmington, NC.
