 Hugh Davis Graham, a scholar of modern American history who was co-director of a notable 1969 study for the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence, died on Tuesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 65. The cause was complications from cancer of the es
 Laurance P. Roberts, a scholar of Asian art who served as director of the Brooklyn Museum and later of the American Academy in Rome, died on March 10 at his home in Baltimore. He was 95. After working as assistant curator of Oriental art at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and studyin
 CARR-John A. CSP. On March 27, 2002, at age 90. Born in Oneonta, NY, on September 18, 1911, he attended Niagara University and in 1934 entered the Paulist Seminary in Washington, D.C. He was ordained on February 2, 1940. His assignments included Paulist trailer missions in South Carolina an
 DEUTSCH-Arnold. Of New York City, who passed away on March 30, was a pioneer in the field of advertising as Founder and President of Deutsch, Shea & Evans Advertising Agency. A member of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, he was held in high esteem by his business associates.
 FRANK-Hans J. On March 29, 2002. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of Susan, Evelyn and Steven. Loved grandfather of Jeremy, Mikaela, Joshua, Adam, Rebekah and Emily. Proud greatgrandfather of Simon. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Contributions in his memory to Se
 HOWE-Wesley Jackson ''Jack''. Age 80, died peacefully at his home in Franklin Lakes on Saturday, March 30, 2002. Jack was born in Jersey City and was a resident of Franklin Lakes for the past 34 years. He was an Executive for Becton Dickenson in Franklin Lakes at his retirement in 1992. He 
 KAUFMAN-David, M.D. The National Board of Trustees and staff of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America (CCFA) are deeply saddened by the loss of this beloved physician, dedicated volunteer, and dear friend. An eminent gastroenterologist, Dr. Kaufman served on the CCFA New Jersey Chapte
 LEVY-Albert. On March 30, 2002. Loving life partner of Adele Dressner, devoted brother of Maurice Levis and Elisa Wheeler, and Ivan and Pupy Dressner, adoring uncle to Amelia and Peter Foster, Lydia and Kevin Brandt, Jon and Lisa Dressner, Juliane Dressner, Clifford Levy and eight grandniec
 MENCHER-Irving. Loving husband of the late Sylvia Mencher. Loving father of Jesse (Kathleen) and Eleanor. He was a supermarket proprietor, World War II veteran and a longtime member of the Riverdale Democratic Club.       
 PESCHEL-Stanley G. Four year resident of Pawling, NY, and winter resident of West Palm Beach, FL, died Friday, March 29th at New Milford Hospital, New Milford, CT. Born in Hudson, NY, on June 4, 1930, he was the son of Stephen S. and Agnes Tracy Peschel. Mr. Peschel served in the Army durin
 ULL-Robert. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Seawayne Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Robert Ull. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Wendy and family. Stuart Herz, President ULL-Robert. Words cannot express the sadness in our hearts caused 
 VAIL-Donald of Bedford, NY, died on March 27, 2002 at the age of 80. Mr. Vail was born in Yonkers, NY, to John I.B. Vail and Margaret Gray Vail of Hyannis, MA., and Blairstown, NJ. A 1938 graduate of the Holderness School & the Class of 1942 at Princeton University, he entered the Navy in W
 R. V. Cassill, the man of letters who was a novelist, short-story writer, editor, book reviewer and teacher of creative writing, died last Monday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 82 and lived in Providence and Truro, Mass. The author of 24 novels and 7 collections of s
 Albert E. Jeffcoat, a former Wall Street Journal foreign correspondent who founded the Manhattan Theater Club in New York City, died on March 10 at his home on Bainbridge Island, Wash. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Jan. While working for the Wall Street Jou
 Ed Turner, who was instrumental in creating round-the-clock television news and making CNN a household name, died on Saturday at a hospital in Washington. A former resident of Atlanta, he was 66 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was complications from liver cancer, CNN said.  
 Neal E. Miller, an experimental psychologist whose conviction that the brain affects human behavior led him to conduct groundbreaking work in biofeedback, died on March 23. He was 92 and lived in a retirement community in Hamden, Conn. Dr. Miller, who taught for years at Yale and Ro
 ALBERT-Roy E., M.D., Died March 25, 2002 at home in Cincinnati, OH. During his 50 year career in cancer research, he was from 1985-1994 Director of Environmental Medicine at the University of Cincinnati and was Vice Chair of The Department of Environmental Health at NYU. He was a graduate o
 BERKOWITZ-Abraham. Flushing, NY. Born June 15, 1911, died March 31, 2002. Adoring husband of the late Eva, devoted father of Morrell, father-in-law to Harriet and proud grandfather of Jake and Max. A sweet, good, gentle soul who loved life and his family. His kindness and generosity of spir
 BRACHOCKI-Edward M. Of East Meadow, NY on March 30, 2002 at the age of 84 after a lengthy battle with Alzheimer's disease. He was born in Brooklyn to Edward J. and Eleanor Brachocki, and is survived by his devoted wife, Virginia; daughter Barbara and her husband Joseph of Ithaca, N.Y.; son 
 CURRY-Charles MacNeil, Jr., MD. Died March 30, 2002 at Memorial Hermann Hospital, University of Texas from complications following heart surgery. He was 58. A graduate of Holy Cross College, Univ. of St. Louis Medical School, and Univ. of Pennsylvania Neurosurgery Program. Called to active 
 DEUTSCH-Arnold. Metropolitan Synagogue mourns the death of our valued member and Past President. He added much to the musical beauty of our services. He will be sorely missed. Joel S. Goor, Rabbi Gail Magaliff, President       
 FITZGERALD-Robert. May 14, 1933-March 28, 2002. Dancer, mentor and friend. Much beloved teacher to dancers, actors, artists, musicians and all who needed his knowledge. He will be forever remembered. A memorial service will be announced. The Robert Fitzgerald Studio       
 FLASTER-Seymour, 89. Of Lake Worth, FL. Passed away on April 1, 2002. He is survived by loving wife of 61 years, Dorothy. Devoted father of Jeffrey (Linda) and Wendie (Michael Reichmann) and loving Poppy to Caroline, Jason and Josh. He was loved by all and will be greatly missed.       
 FLEISCHER-William R. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of William R. Fleischer, who, with his family, expressed an admirable commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes. Mr. Fleischer's wife, Shirley, his son, Steven, and his d
 HARKARVY - Benjamin. On March 30, 2002 at age 71. Loving brother of Jerry and Gloria Golden. Loving uncle of David, Nancy and Bill Golden. We will miss him dearly. A celebration of his life and work is planned for the spring. HARKARVY-Benjamin. The Juilliard Dance Division and all m
 HYNES-Timothy. With deep sorrow we announce that Timothy J. Hynes (forty-six) passed away at home in Westport, CT., Sunday March 31. Timmy left us peacefully in his sleep after an apparent heart attack. He was in the midst of a long and gallant battle against cancer. Son of the late Edward 
 LANG-Mel. The Mel Lang Winter Invitational Golf Tournament notes with great sorrow the passing of our founder, leader and beloved friend. We express our heartfelt sympathy to his beautiful and devoted wife, Lila, and to Jeff and Debi and his beloved grandchildren. He was special in so many 
 LONDON-George. Died peacefully on March 31, 2002, in his 84th year. Beloved father, grandfather, great grandfather, brother, and husband of the late Rose. Revered by all who knew him for his selflessness, integrity and wisdom. A professional engineer, he founded his own firm, which grew int
 ROSEN-Albert. Passed away March 30, 2002 at the Hospice of Palm Beach County, Florida. He is survived by his beloved family: wife Alice, daughter Naomi, grandchildren David and Pamela, and great-grandson Alexander. He was predeceased by his first wife Natalie in 1989.       
 STEINER-Lee N. The members, attorneys and staff of Loeb & Loeb LLP mourn with profound sadness the loss of Lee N. Steiner, our partner for more than 40 years. A towering figure of international renown in the entertainment industry, Lee was a pioneer in the practice of entertainment law. Lee
 SZABAD-George M. The American Jewish Committee mourns the loss of George Szabad, an Honorary Vice President and one of our most active and dedicated leaders for more than half a century. George's leadership and intense involvement, inspired by a profound ethical sensibility and abiding soci
 ULL-Robert. Bobby was certainly unique. He was our friend and client, limitless in his enthusiasm and energy, he reveled in his life and his family. His optimism for the future never wavered. We will miss him and will continue to celebrate that we knew him, that we worked with him, that he 
 VOLLWEILER-Kurt J. On March 31 at 91 years of age died peacefully at his home in Dobbs Ferry, New York. A true renaissance man, a citizen of the world, a bon vivant, a man of great refinement in a world where there are few. Loving husband of the late May. Loving father of Steven and Alan. L
 WIRECKI-Marek, M.D. Died Mar. 31, 2002. He was a survivor of the Holocaust, a physician, a scholar, a writer and a man lovingly dedicated to his wife of 57 years, Janka Wirecki. He is survived by his wife, his daughter Barbara, his son Theodore, four grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
 Benjamin Harkarvy, director of the dance division of the Juilliard School since 1992 and an internationally respected ballet teacher, director and choreographer, died on Saturday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Harkarvy, who had been receiving treatment
 George M. Szabad, a lawyer, businessman and former member of the board of governors of the American Jewish Committee, died on March 30 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 85. Mr. Szabad, a longtime resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., was also a former president of the committee's Westches
 Horace A. Shepard, a former chief executive and chairman of TRW, died on March 5 at his home in Leary, Ga. He was 89. Mr. Shepard worked for TRW or a predecessor company for 26 years. TRW makes automotive, aerospace and military products. He joined Thompson Products, which made airc
 John U. Monro, a white educator who gave up one of the most prominent jobs in academia, dean of Harvard College, to take a low-level, low-paying administrative and teaching job with an impoverished black college in Alabama, died on Friday in LaVerne, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Monro surp
 BERKOWITZ-Abraham. Flushing, NY. Born June 15, 1911, died March 31, 2002. Adoring husband of the late Eva, devoted father of Morrell, father-in-law to Harriet and proud grandfather of Jake and Max. A sweet, good, gentle soul who loved life and his family. His kindness and generosity of spir
 BURRIESCI-Anthony John. Ninety-three, died on April 1, 2002. Beloved husband of Bernice Bakke Burriesci. Loving father of Robert and his wife Karen, David, Donald and his wife Janice. Cherished grandfather of Robert, Lauren, Andrea and Kevin. He was an advertising executive, a community lea
 CHAPIN-Howard Day, Sr. On March 29, at his home in Port Townsend, WA. He is survived by his wife, Vivian, and children, Howard, Jr., Clinton and Sally, and five grandchildren. A memorial service celebrating his life will be at 11 AM, April 6, First Presbyterian Church, Port Townsend, WA.   
 FLEISCHER-William. The Board of Directors and staff of the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County mourns the passing of William Fleischer, our benefactor, supporter & grandparent in our school. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family.       
 HARKARVY-Benjamin. The Juilliard Dance Division and all members of the School community mourn the death of Benjamin Harkarvy, faculty member since 1990 and artistic director of the Dance Division from 1992 to the present. With enormous creativity and dedication, Ben brought Juilliard dancer
 HIEBER-William G., Jr. 65. Of Garden City and New York City, esteemed and respected stockbroker, financial advisor, and lawyer, died on March 31st, 2002. CFA, President of Shoenberg, Hieber Inc. Graduate of Colgate University, Phi Beta Kappa, and Harvard Law School. A devoted friend, loved 
 LEVINE-Irving. Of West Palm Beach, Fl, passed away on April 2, 2002. He was a warm, humorous, cheerful and loving father to Susan (Steven Reichman) Schweitzer, Alice (Donald) Baird and Henry (Vivian Chang) Levine. Adoring grandfather to Jessica & Nathan Levine. Devoted partner to his belove
 ROSENBERG-Leonard J. on April 2. Fought a 13 year courageous battle. Loving husband of Arlene, adoring father of Stacey Lynn, cherished son of Miriam and the late Benjamin. Dearest brother of Alan D. and Wendy. Beloved sonin-law of Justine and the late Harold Schachter. Devoted uncle and gr
 STEINER-Lee N. The members, attorneys and staff of Loeb & Loeb LLP mourn with profound sadness the loss of Lee N. Steiner, our partner for more than 40 years. A towering figure of international renown in the entertainment industry, Lee was a pioneer in the practice of entertainment law. Lee
 WARSHAW-Jules J. Died February 8, 2002. In his 50 years publishing magazines produced 35 nationally distributed titles, served as the Director of Publishing for The Curtis Publishing Co., President of Downe Leisure Services, and publisher of Holiday Status and Museum Magazines. He was a vet
 MICHELSON-Ben. April 3, 1910November 6, 2001. We mourn the loss of our beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. A superb teacher, role model and mentor to many. His legacy is preserved through all who loved and respected him. Your Loving Famil       
 Dr. Albert Edward Whitford, an astronomer who helped map the Milky Way galaxy and measure the brightness of stars in it and beyond it, died on March 28 in Madison, Wis., where he had returned in retirement six years ago. He was 96. Before moving back to Wisconsin, he was an emeritus
 Franklin S. Forsberg, a publishing executive and former ambassador to Sweden, died last Friday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 96 and lived in Greenwich. After holding executive positions with Street & Smith Publications, Mr. Forsberg became a United States Army colonel in World War II a
 BROWN-Ernest H. ''Tony'', 61. Of Greenwich died on Monday, April 1. He was a loving & proud father, a loyal friend, and a devoted humanitarian. Son of Ernest and Harriet, brother of Bill and Rick, father of Adam, Ashley, and Evan. Services at First Presbyterian Church in Greenwich, CT on Sa
 CESSNA-William. 61. On March 19 in Ohio. Gifted pianist and life-long student of psychic phenomena. Beloved brother of Bob, Jim, Peggy, Jack and Tom. Beloved son of Robert and Mary. We will miss his warmth, talents and wit.       
 DIEBOLD-William. Of Upper Nyack, N.Y., died on April 2 at age 84. An eminent international economist, he worked at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York from the late 1930's until his retirement in 1983 as senior economic fellow. He was the author of numerous books on international t
 GALLOP-Kalman Victor, 69. On April 2, 2002. Kal was the best-the best husband of Lois, best father of Jeffrey and Mindy, best brother of Carol Kossoy, and best grandpa of Jason. He was an excellent attorney, a great friend and a very special person. Graveside will be today 10:30 AM at New M
 HARKARVY-Benjamin. Special friend for many years, devoted teacher, beautiful soul. A terrible loss for all who loved him. Lynn Lane       
 HAWN-Clinton Van Zandt. Age 86 of Cooperstown, NY died March 30, 2002. Survived by his wife Elizabeth, children Cynthia, Van Zandt, Gates, Richard, and five grandchildren. Clinical Professor of Pathology Emeritus, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.       
 HIRSCHL-Norman S., 86. Died April 2, 2002 at his home in Williamstown, MA. The Founder and Chairman Emeritus of Hirschl & Adler Galleries, he was a past president of the Art Dealers Association, and a charismatic supporter of causes related to the arts, youth, and American history. An adore
 MCLAUGHLIN-Stephen. On April 2, 2002. Dear brother of Richard and brother-in-law of Ilona. Loving uncle of Beth, Adam and his wife Heather. Visitation Thursday 7-9 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue. Service on Friday 11 AM at St. Gregory's Church, 144 West 90 Street, NY
 MOONEY-Brother Roy FMS Marist Provincial, Teacher and Counselor on April 3, 2002 of Maplewood, NJ. Son of the late Mary (nee Dunne) and William. Brother of William Mooney and his wife Patricia of Farmington Hills, MI, Mary Connelly of Scarsdale, NY and the late Thomas Mooney and Isabella In
 SPENSLEY-Robert E. Died Friday, March 29. He is survived by his wife, Dr. Adele Engelberg; a brother, Malcolm C. Spensley; a sister, Diane Armstrong, several nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held at Congregation Rodeph Shalom, 7 W. 83rd St., NYC, Friday, April 12, at 3 PM.    
 SZABAD-George M. Of Haverford, PA, died peacefully on March 30, 2002. He was a wise and devoted trustee of The Dibner Fund from its inception. Dedicated to justice, human rights, humanitarian concerns globally and committed to fostering peaceful coexistence, George was a person of outstandi
 WEINBERG-Isaac. Born December 1, 1900, NYC, died at home in Lawrence, NY, March 28, 2002, at 101 years of age. Dear husband of Flo Kahn Weinberg, stepfather of Mike and Stanley Kahn. He was a partner with his brothers, Nathan, Reuben and Morris in the law firm of Weinberg & Weinberg, at 32 
 WITENBERG-Earl G., M.D. A Memorial Tribute heralding the work of the distinguished Earl Witenberg, Director Emeritus of The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute will be held Friday April 5, 2002 at 7 P.M. at The Institute. Dr. Witenberg whose formidable presence at The Institute s
 Wolfgang F. Stolper, an economist who more than 60 years ago inspired a theory about international trade that to this day helps to explain its effect on national economies, died on Sunday in Ann Arbor, Mich., where he lived. He was 89. The breakthrough insight, known as the Stolper-
 Clark Jones, a director from the earliest days of television, died on March 28 at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 81. Mr. Jones directed many of television's first large-scale live arts programs, including a 1952 broadcast of ''Carmen'' from the Metropolitan Opera, ''Peter Pan'' w
 James H. Karales, the photojournalist whose 1965 picture of determined marchers outlined against a lowering sky became a pictorial anthem of the civil rights movement, died on Monday. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his wife, Monica, said. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.
 Dr. John Robinson Pierce, a visionary electrical engineer and acoustics expert who headed the team that invented the transistor and was a major force behind Echo I, the world's first communications satellite, died on Tuesday in Sunnyvale, Calif. He was 92. Dr. Pierce considered the 
 Norman S. Hirschl, a founder of the Hirschl & Adler Galleries in Manhattan and an American paintings expert, died at his home in Williamstown, Mass., on Tuesday. He was 86. Mr. Hirschl was born in New York on June 22, 1915, and grew up in Queens. He attended City College from 1932 u
 BOOGAERTS-John Joseph, Jr. Architect and urban planner for the US General Services Administration, resident of Greenwich, CT, died on March 28, 2002 in New York City. He was born in Alexandria, LA, graduated from Tulane University School of Architecture and Columbia University with a Master
 GOLDMAN-Thelma. The members of Congregation Ezrath Israel, the actors' temple are saddened by the death of Thelma Goldman, widow and best friend of our late president Robert Goldman. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his daughters, Karen and Joy Schwartzstein, grandson Adam, daughter-in
 HIEBER-William G., Jr. The Board and staff of The Family Center mourn the sudden loss of our landlord, friend and father-figure Bill Hieber. He was first in line to help us serve families with AIDS and cancer. We will use his humor, strength and kindness to carry out and expand our work. Ou
 HIRSCHL-Norman S., 86. Died April 2, 2002 at his home in Williamstown, MA. The Founder and Chairman Emeritus of Hirschl & Adler Galleries, he was a past president of the Art Dealers Association, and a charismatic supporter of causes related to the arts, youth, and American history. An adore
 HONIG-Marvin. Former Creative Director and Executive Vice President of famed advertising agency Doyle Dane Bernbach died March 28, 2002 at his home in Rhinebeck, NY. He was 66 years old. He will truly be missed by his family and friends. There will be a memorial service at the Plaza Hotel o
 PRATT-Charles Norris, 78. Of Noank, Connecticut, passed on March 27, 2002. He was a direct descendant of William Pratt, the first settler of Essex, Connecticut. He was also the great-great-greatgrandson of the merchant John Taylor of Glasgow and New York, one of early New York's prominent c
 ROSENHOUSE-Irwin. On March 30, 2002. Distinguished artist, teacher, gallery owner. Cooper Union grad. Merchant Marine, W.W. II. Memorial at his studio, on Sunday, April 14. Info 212-866-2149.       
 SCHIFF-Bernard. We are saddened beyond words by the loss of our beloved friend. We will miss his droll humor, our laughter together, his concern for the welfare of those close to him, and the joy of just being in his company. Our sympathies go out to Jackie, his children and grand children.
 TALMAGE-Robert V. Producer, director, choreographer, Robert Talmage passed away March 25, 2002 at the Cedars Sinai Medical Hospital in Los Angeles due to complications from his battle with cancer. We deeply mourn his passing and know that he is in a better place. He will be sorely missed by
 TRININ-George. Died peacefully at home in his 104th year. He will be missed by those who knew him. Elizabeth & Saul       
 Edward Irving Levy, a composer and professor of music at Yeshiva University in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from pancreatic cancer, said his friend and colleague Noyes Bartholomew.    
 Herbert Kesner, a former head of the news broadcast desk at The New York Times, died on Monday at a hospital in Lebanon, Pa. He was 89 and lived in Manheim, Pa. For many years, Mr. Kesner headed the staff that wrote news broadcasts for The Times's classical radio station, WQXR, whic
 Marvin Honig, a leading creative talent in the so-called golden age of advertising in the 1960's and 70's, died on March 28 at his home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 66. The cause was complications related to multiple sclerosis, said his daughter, Jo Honig. Mr. Honig joined Doyl
 FARKAS-Benjamin, 79. After a short illness. Devoted and beloved husband to Ellen Tanner Farkas for 52 years. Cherished father of Dr. Paul and Esta Farkas, and Drs. Lynn Farkas Schwartz and Gary Schwartz. Doting grandfather of Melanie and Joshua Farkas, and Allison & Erica Schwartz. Brother 
 FEIGIN-Mollie (nee Kanowitz). Born March 26, 1917, Brooklyn, N.Y. Died peacefully on April 4, 2002 at home in Flushing, N.Y. Beloved wife of Dr. Irwin Feigin. Cherished mother and mother-inlaw of Dr. Joel S. Feigin and Dr. Severine Neff, and attorney Michael and his wife Diane (Feigin) Badz
 GILLMAN-Stanley. A Certified Public Accountant and president of the Bruno Walter Memorial Foundation. Mr. Gillman passed peacefully on Friday, April 5, 2002. He lived his 79 years with honor, integrity and kindness. Mr. Gillman was a senior partner in the accounting firm of Yohalem, Gillman
 TALMAGE-Robert V. Producer, director, choreographer, Robert Talmage passed away March 25, 2002 at the Cedars Sinai Medical Hospital in Los Angeles due to complications from his battle with cancer. We deeply mourn his passing and know that he is in a better place. He will be sorely missed by
 WOLIN-Eugene R. Died April 4, 2002. Beloved husband of Dorothy for 58 years. Devoted father of Michael and his wife Susan, loving grandfather of Harris and his wife Deborah, Julie Altschuler and her husband Aaron. Former Judge in charge of New York County Civil Court, former law secretary t
 Roy Huggins, a producer and writer whose witty long-running television series helped the medium grow up in the 1950's and 60's, died on Wednesday in Santa Monica, Calif, where he lived. He was 87. In a television career that spanned more than four decades, his hits included ''Maveri
 William Diebold, an economist who spent his career at the Council on Foreign Relations, shaping and studying the international economic order after World War II, died on Tuesday at his home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. He was 84. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.     
 Wylie F. L. Tuttle, an American real estate developer who played a major role in the construction of what was in 1972 the tallest office building in Europe, died on Friday at his home in Rock Hall, Md. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Janet. Mr. Tuttle was pre
 BACASA-Gerald J. Jr. Born June 1, 1976. Died March 14, 2002. NYC, thanks for embracing Jerry. He was where he wanted to be and expressed it in his art and music. He will always live on through the memories of all who loved him.       
 FARKAS-Benjamin, 79. After a short illness. Devoted and beloved husband to Ellen Tanner Farkas for 52 years. Cherished father of Dr. Paul and Esta Farkas, and Drs. Lynn Farkas Schwartz and Gary Schwartz. Doting grandfather of Melanie and Joshua Farkas, and Allison & Erica Schwartz. Brother 
 GILLMAN-Stanley. A Certified Public Accountant and president of the Bruno Walter Memorial Foundation. Mr. Gillman passed peacefully on Friday, April 5, 2002. He lived his 79 years with honor, integrity and kindness. Mr. Gillman was a senior partner in the accounting firm of Yohalem, Gillman
 GOLDMAN-Judith. The Board of Directors, Administration, Faculty, Parents and Students of the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County extend their deepest sympathy to our esteemed Honorary President, Eugene Goldman, and to his family, on the passing of his beloved wife Judy. She was the daughter of 
 GORMAN-Jack. Passed away at 87 years of age on April 5, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL, formerly of NYC. Born in Brooklyn, NY, to the late Anna and Wolf Goichman, brother of Aaron, and the late Mac, Al and Rose. Devoted father to Linda and Doug Weintraub, adoring and proud grandfather to Abby and 
 GROSSMAN-Joseph Richard. On April 4, 2002, at 85 years of age. Beloved husband of Suri Grossman for 61 years. Loving father of Margaret, Eleanor and Leonard. Adoring grandfather of Joshua. A brilliant, thoughtful, gentle, kind man with a great sense of humor. He was loved and respected by a
 KASPEROWICZ - Henry John. Passed away peacefully at his home Sunday. He invented and was awarded the patent for color television in 1950. His wife, eight children, ten grandchildren and two great-grandchildren survive him. A private burial at sea is scheduled.       
 KESNER-Herbert. A retired news broadcast editor of The New York Times died on Monday in Lebanon, Pennsylvania. Mr. Kesner was employed by the newspaper from 1936 to 1972. Under his editorship, the news broadcast desk won the prestigious Peabody Award. He is survived by his wife Constance, d
 LEEDS-Richard C. On April 2nd, 2002, from complications of a kidney biopsy at age 85. ''Dick'' was a member of the New York Mercantile Exchange from 1940-1991, was Vice Chairman and served on Board of Governors for 20 years. Known for his wit, charm, and joy, and love of life, music and spo
 LEVY-Captain Jerome E., USNR (Ret.), passed away on April 5, 2002. He was a distinguished naval officer, businessman and philanthropist. The Board of Directors of the Anna Sobol Levy Foundation wish to express their sympathy and condolences to his family and friends. He will be sorely misse
 MACKEY-Leonard B. A resident of Rye, NY, Greenwich, CT, and Sarasota, FL, died on April 2, 2002, in Sarasota. He was 76 years old. Mr. Mackey had a long career as an intellectual property lawyer. Initially employed by the General Electric Corporation in Schenectady, he retired as Vice Presi
 MARDER-Jules. On April 5, 2002. We sadly mourn the loss, cherish the memory and celebrate the life of our beloved Jules. Husband of Harriett, father of Randy and Nadine, father-in-law of David Frieberg, brother of Mel and Judy, grandfather of Gabriel and Jenna. Service Monday, 11:45 AM, at 
 MARINO-Ralph J. Former New York State Senate Majority Leader. On April 6, 2002. Beloved husband of Ethel (nee Bernstein). Loving father of Judith, James (Randi) and Robert (Andrea). Devoted son of Catherine Marino. Cherished grandfather of David, Alyssa and Michael. Dear brother of Mildred 
 McGUIRE-Edward. Died suddenly on March 25, 2002. A dancer, choreographer, director of plays and operas. He is greatly loved by Regina his partner of nine years, his family, and by his many friends & neighbors. We will miss his warmth and talents and mourn our loss of this lovely gentleman. 
 NEWMAN-Donald H. April 13, 1928-March 22, 2002. His loss is mourned by his wife Francoise, his daughters Hope, Hillary, Robin and Vanessa, his grandchild Isabelle, and his three sons-in-law. Memorial will be held April 15, at St. Paul's Chapel, Columbia University, from 2-3 PM, followed by 
 PICKER-Fred, 75. Of Dummerston, Vermont died April 3, 2002 after a long illness. An internationally celebrated photographer, author and teacher, Mr. Picker was a champion of causes supporting civil liberties and the environment. With a love for the photographic art form, Mr. Picker quickly 
 ROMEROVSKI-Martin. Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of our long time friend and generous supporter who served on the Board of Directors of Stern College for Women and with his wife, Rose, was a Guardian of Yeshiva University. They were also Fellows of the Rabbi Isa
 ROSENBAUM-Edmund. We extend sincerest condolences to Drs. Alfred and Jacob Rosenbaum on the loss of their beloved father. Through their incredible kibud av, service on the New York Board and as a Founder, respectively, they carry on the mesorah that they so meaningfully learned from him. Ma
 RYAN-Thomas Alfred, Jr., 88. Died April 1, 2002. A native New Yorker. Former president of William L. Marshall, Ltd. Expert in exotic veneers, lifelong baseball fan, fought Alzheimer's for thirteen years. Tom is survived by his beloved wife Claire, three great children and eight wonderful gr
 SCHIFF-Bernard. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, Bernie, and extend our deepest love and sympathy to Jackie and the family. There are no odds against his being missed by his multitude of friends, certainly among them ourselves. Myrna and Ron       
 SELIGSON-King Cecil. Died at home in NYC on March 28, 2002, at age 85. Known in business as Cecil King, he was an interior designer and manufacturer to the trade for 64 years. He is survived by his wife, Olga; daughters, Carol King and Bonnie Joy, and grandson, Nicholas Seligson-Ross. A mem
 SHEDLIN-Allan. 87, of New York City, died on April 5, 2002. He was the beloved husband and best friend of Lilli Shedlin; devoted father of Victor and Susan Shedlin, Allan Shedlin Jr., Ann Kamin, Leslie and Daniel Weinberger and Carol and Lowell McKegney; loving grandfather of nine and great
 STARE-Fredrick J. The American Council on Science and Health mourns the passing of its Director, Dr. Fredrick J. Stare, founder of the Department of Nutrition at Harvard. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Irene and his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Dr. Fredric M.
 TALMAGE-Robert V. Producer, director, choreographer, Robert Talmage passed away March 25, 2002 at the Cedars Sinai Medical Hospital in Los Angeles due to complications from his battle with cancer. We deeply mourn his passing and know that he is in a better place. He will be sorely missed by
 TAXIER-Charles L. Devoted husband of Bernice. Loving father to Barbara Coplein, Brian and Amy. Proud grandfather to Lauren Coplein. Beloved brother of Ruth Dawer. Loyal friend and good person. In lieu of shiva, condolences may be expressed to the family on Sunday, April 7, at Gutterman's Fu
 TOBELMAN - William Thomas. Died Thursday, March 28, 2002 at his home in Orford, NH. He was born June 10, 1928 in South Orange, NJ and is survived by his wife Ella St. Amand Tobelman, son William T. II, daughter Margaret J. and two grandsons. He, a member of the class of 1950 at Brown Univer
 WEYHER-Harry F. Jr. On March 27 in La Grange, North Carolina. He was 80. Born in Wilson, North Carolina, he attended the University of North Carolina where he was Phi Beta Kappa. He joined the War in Europe in 1943, becoming a First Sergeant in the Army and earning two battle stars. In 1949
 WILLIAMS-James Rennick. The former president of the National Retail Merchants Association (NRMA), passed on September 20, 2001, at his home in Lockport, New York. He was born in Lockport and attended local schools. In the fall of 1942, he entered Princeton University and, while there, joine
 Ralph J. Marino, a courtly Republican from Long Island who served for 26 years in the New York Senate and was the state's most powerful Republican during 6 years as majority leader in the late 1980's and early 1990's, died yesterday at Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 7
 Dean F. Bumpus, an oceanographer who for decades showered the Atlantic with tens of thousands of empty bottles to decipher its currents, died March 14 at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 89. ''I'm the world's greatest litterbug,'' he once said. In fact, Mr. Bumpus had a 
 BINNS-W. Gordon Jr. 72, of Richmond and New York, died after a brief illness April 4, 2002, at MCV Hospitals. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Alberta Fry Binns; his daughters, Amanda Letitia Binns and Clarissa Fetrow of Seattle; his sister, Mary Katherine Binns Wallace. A funeral se
 BULMAN-Aaron E. The Washington Heights Congregation mourns the untimely loss of our President. We will never forget his love and devotion for our Shul. Deepest sympathy to his entire family. Interment in Israel. Ellis Bloch, Rabbi Officers and Members       
 GORMAN-Jack. Passed away at 87 years of age on April 5, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL, formerly of NYC. Born in Brooklyn, NY, to the late Anna and Wolf Goichman, brother of Aaron, and the late Mac, Al and Rose. Devoted father to Linda and Doug Weintraub, adoring and proud grandfather to Abby and 
 MARINO-Ralph J. A kind and loving man who always made a difference. Dear Ethel, Judy, Jim and Bob-we are proud and blessed to have had someone so special in our lives. God love him. Abe and Adrienne Bernstein Andrea, Lorin, Alan and Zachary       
 MONROE-Mark. Died on April 5, 2002. Born February 26, 1954. Services on Saturday, April 13, 1-3 PM, at John Barrett & Son Funeral Home, 424 W. 51 St, NYC. For information call 212-265-0335. We will love him always.       
 SHEDLIN-Allan. 87, of New York City, died on April 5, 2002. He was the beloved husband and best friend of Lilli Shedlin; devoted father of Victor and Susan Shedlin, Allan Shedlin Jr., Ann Kamin, Leslie and Daniel Weinberger and Carol and Lowell McKegney; loving grandfather of nine and great
 TALMAGE-Robert V. Producer, director, choreographer, Robert Talmage passed away March 25, 2002 at the Cedars Sinai Medical Hospital in Los Angeles due to complications from his battle with cancer. We deeply mourn his passing and know that he is in a better place. He will be sorely missed by
 TAXIER-Charles L. Devoted husband of Bernice. Loving father to Barbara Coplein, Brian and Amy. Proud grandfather to Lauren Coplein. Beloved brother of Ruth Dawer. A loyal friend and good person. A graveside service will be held today at New Montefiore Cemetery at 11 AM. Donations in his mem
 WEYHER-Harry F. In fond memory of our friend and colleague Harry Weyher who died on March 27, 2002. His gracious presence in our office will be greatly missed. Hollyer Brady Smith & Hines LLP       
 Ralph J. Marino, a courtly Republican from Long Island who served for 26 years in the New York Senate and was the state's most powerful Republican during 6 years as majority leader in the late 1980's and early 1990's, died Saturday at Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 74
 Raven Chanticleer, a fashion designer, dancer, sculptor, storyteller, bon vivant, and the founder, craftsman and proprietor of the Harlem African-American Wax and History Museum, died March 31. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. For a dozen years, Mr. Cha
 ARCHER-Nicholas M. (Occhiogrosso). Of Norwood, NJ, formerly Demarest, NJ and Brooklyn, on Saturday, April 6, 2002. Beloved husband of Nora (nee Ahern). Loving father of Michael and his wife Maureen and Nicholas, Jr. Grandfather of Timothy and Terence. Before retiring, he was Vice President 
 BINNS-W. Gordon Jr., 72. Of Richmond & New York, died after a brief illness April 4, 2002 at MCV Hospitals. Mr. Binns, who retired from General Motors in 1994 following a 40 year career, served as president and chief executive officer of GM Investment Management Corporation & a former vice-
 CAWLEY-Wayne W., 84, of Palm Beach, FL, died of cancer on February 23, 2002. Born in Johnson City, NY, November 23, 1917, Mr. Cawley resided in Endicott, NY before moving to Palm Beach County, FL. A family man and entrepreneur, his career included dairy business, electronic plants, and real
 DAILEY-Joseph P., Ph.D. Husband for 51 years of Mary Edna Torney Dailey, and father of five, passed away April 6, 2002. Received his Ph.D. from Notre Dame in 1950, specialized in pharmaceutical research, development, registration and licensing for the Armour Pharmaceutical Company, Revlon H
 EARLE-Nathaniel C. April 4, 2002. Husband of Anne G. Gordon Earle. Father of Ashley A. and Nathaniel Cabot Earle, Jr. Brother of Roger Earle. Residence Rumford, RI. A memorial service will be held on Friday, at 11AM in St. Martin's Church, Orchard Ave. Providence, RI. Contributions in his m
 GLUECK-Louis. The Maimonides Medical Center family, Board of Trustees, administration, medical staff and workers mourn the loss of Louis Glueck, our esteemed Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee. A recipient of the hospital's highest honor-the Jack R. Aron Medal-Mr. Glueck demonstrated an ins
 GORMAN-Jack. Passed away at 87 years of age on April 5, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL, formerly of NYC. Born in Brooklyn, NY, to the late Anna and Wolf Goichman, brother of Aaron, and the late Mac, Al and Rose. Devoted father to Linda and Doug Weintraub, adoring and proud grandfather to Abby and 
 ISRAEL-Richard Lawrence. Age 33, beloved son of Debby Israel of New York, NY, and Seymour Israel of Orlando, FL, died before his time on Friday, April 5, 2002. Other than his parents he is survived by his brother and best friend, Mark Charles Israel and sister-in-law and dear friend, Caryn 
 KOROBKIN-David Bruce. Died April 7, 2002, age 47, in New Canaan, CT, of colon cancer. Beloved husband of Laurie, devoted father of Katie and Benjamin, cherished brother of Barry of Newton, MA, and Nancy of Riverside, CT. A real estate attorney, he was also the owner with his wife of Economy
 LEVY-Capt. Jerome E. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Captain Jerome E. Levy, USNR (Ret.). Captain Levy had a long, illustrious career in the US Navy, and his dedication to the United States Armed Services was matched 
 LIPSKY-Daniel. Professor Emeritus Daniel Lipsky passed away April 8, at the spirited age of 90-1/2. Dan Lipsky taught for 46 years at, and was instrumental in creating the nationally recognized Accounting Program of Brooklyn College. Those who knew ''Danny's'' loving manners-especially his 
 MARGOLIN-Martin J. Beloved husband of Sheilah. Devoted father of Laurence, Bonnie and Mark. Father-in-law of Sara Margolin and Simon Cheirif. Cherished grandfather of Samantha, Jessica, Jordana, Benjamin, and Farrah. Loving brother of Miriam Freeman. Services Tuesday 1 P.M. at Temple Beth E
 RESNICK-Abraham. The clergy, trustees, officers and membership of the East 55th Street Conservative Synagogue sorrowfully record the loss of our dedicated, esteemed and beloved Corresponding Secretary. He faithfully served our Congregation with dedication and devotion for over half a centur
 STEINER-Benjamin M. Beloved husband of the late Joyce. Loving father of Elliott Steiner & Barbara Steiner Silverman. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer. Devoted father-in-law of Don. Dedicated Pythian & beloved friend. Services today 10:45am at ''Sinai Chapels'', 162-05 Horace Harding Expres
 J. Russell Elkinton, editor emeritus of Annals of Internal Medicine, which he helped shape into a world leader among medical journals, died on Saturday in Concord, Mass. A resident of Bedford, Mass., he was 91. A former professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. El
 ARRIGAN-Nicholas Joseph, 60. Of The Hideout, Lake Ariel, PA, formerly of New York, NY, died Wednesday, April 3, 2002. He was a graduate of Cardinal Hayes High School, Bronx, NY and earned a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics from Manhattan College in Riverdale, NY and worked 26 years for th
 DEUTSCH-Harry. Died in Cary, NC, on Monday, April 8, 2002. He was the loving father of Janice Koch and Susan Berkowitz, and grandfather to Steven, Jill, Robin & Betsy. Proud great-grandfather to Benjamin, Emily, Daniel, Zachary, Abigail, Aaron & Kayley. Loving husband to the late Beatrice D
 EVARTS-M. Richard. Born March 5, 1920 in Holyoke, MA to Frances and Benjamin Evarts. Died March 21, 2002 in Tucson, AZ. Survived by his wife, Carol; daughter Jill Evarts of Nantucket, MA; son Max of New York City; and sister Abby Meyer of Chicago, IL. Preceded in death by son, David. He wil
 FRIEDMAN-Isidore. Passed away in Jerusalem on April 9, 2002 at the age of 95. Born in Belgium, a WW II veteran, he immigrated to New York in 1941. He was an active Zionist and Secretary and Arbitrator of the Diamond Dealers Club. His community activities included Congregation Morya, Israel 
 GLUECK-Louis. The Maimonides Medical Center family, Board of Trustees, administration, medical staff and workers mourn the loss of Louis Glueck, our esteemed Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee. A recipient of the hospital's highest honor-the Jack R. Aron Medal-Mr. Glueck demonstrated an ins
 GORMAN-Jack. We mourn the loss of our friend, Jack, who came into our family late and left too early. We will miss him. The Kamslers and Bassis'       
 KROLL-Douglas. The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services and its Youth Counseling League Division note with great sadness the passing of Douglas Kroll, who died after a long illness. Doug was a gifted social worker whose optimism, compassion and empathy were an inspiration to all w
 KUHN-George E., 94 years old. Loving and devoted father of Mitchell (Joan). Grandfather of David (Stephanie) and Deborah Kuhn-Dames (Tom). Great grandfather of Rachel and Anna. Passed on April 6, after a long struggle with pain and adversity. He was a special person who will be remembered a
 MARGOLIN - Martin. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 SOUTHAM-Chester Milton. Beloved husband of Gertrude, died in his home on April 5, 2002. Born on October 4, 1919. B.S.U. Idaho, 1941, M.S., 1943; M.D. Columbia University 1947. Intern Presbyterian Hospital, NYC, 1947-48; research fellow to full member, chief division virology/immunology Sloa
 WEBER-William D. An independant art consultant and dealer, died in Catania, Sicily, on March 25, 2002, from a cerebral hemorrhage resulting from an accidental fall. He will be missed by his many friends and associates and by his loving sister, Linda Van Ausdale, her husband David, his niece
 WEINMAN-David, 73. Of Jericho, NY, died on April 8. A graduate of CCNY and NYU Law School, he retired from the Dime Savings Bank of New York in 1993. Beloved husband of Sydelle (Chippie). Loving father of Robert and Christine Weinman. Proud grandfather of Rachel and Jonathan. Dearest son-in
 DENBY-Jerry. Died October 24, 2001. Burial will take place April 15, 2002, 11 AM, at Arlington National Cemetery. A Purple Heart vet of the Korean War, film director, writer and bon vivant. Richard, Sarah, Jon, Diane, Kevin, Linda, Jenny, Patty and especially Dorothy miss him very much.    
 William Alexander Stewart, a Hawaiian-born Scot who grew up multilingual in California and became an authority on creole languages, in particular Gullah, the West African-flavored speech of of the Sea Islands off South Carolina and Georgia, died on March 25 at Columbia-Presbyterian Center i
 Dr. Fredrick J. Stare, a leading nutritionist who wrote extensively about healthful eating and was among the first to conduct scientific studies of the links between diet and heart disease, died last Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 91. An emeritus professor of nutrit
 Hans J. Frank, a former partner in the international law firm now called Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson and a tax expert who helped fellow victims of Nazism, died on March 29 at his home on the West Side of Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Frank came to the United States from Ger
 James F. Bradley Jr., whose late-night brainstorm as a Navy officer led to the development of a system for tapping into Soviet submarine communications, died on March 3 at a nursing home in McLean, Va. He was 81. The cause was complications from a heart attack, family members said. 
 CONVEY-Edward U. Age 74, of Port Washington & East Hampton on April 8, 2002. Dearly beloved husband of Joann for over 50 years. Loving father of Christine, John, James and the late Edward U. Jr. Dear father-in-law of Mark, Catherine & Louise. Grandfather of 5. Also survived by his sisters, 
 FISHER-Charles W. Age 84. Died in Sarasota, FL. March 26, 2002. Former television producer/director at Benton & Bowles, Inc., longtime editor of Gruber's Hagerstown Almanack. W.W. II veteran with the 9th Infantry Division in the Normandy landings. Survived by his wife of 60 years, Mary W. F
 GLUECK-Louis. The Maimonides Medical Center family, Board of Trustees, administration, medical staff and workers mourn the loss of Louis Glueck, our esteemed Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee. A recipient of the hospital's highest honor-the Jack R. Aron Medal-Mr. Glueck demonstrated an ins
 INDYKE-William. On April 9, 2002. Survived by his wife Paula, sons Jay and Barry, daughter-in-law Andrea, grandchildren Matthew and Ross, and sister Estelle Schlenger. Mr. Indyke served as a Cantor on high holy holidays for synagogues across the country for many years, and was a microbiolog
 KROLL-Douglas A., 34. Died April 8, 2002 of complications due to leukemia. He was a Staff Social Worker for the youth counseling league division of the Jewish Board of Family and Children Services. Doug, once described a hero as someone who touches the life of everyone he meets and that was
 LEVENSTEIN-Harold. On April 9, 2002. 78 years old. Devoted companion of Lois Sussman. Loving father of Paula Butler, Marcia Weisman, and Alissa Onigman. Father-in-law of Joel Butler, Mark Weisman, and Philip Onigman. Proud grandfather of Stephanie Butler, David Weisman, Rachel Weisman, and 
 LIEF-Arthur. On April 10, 2002, at Franklin Hospital, at the age of 93. Devoted husband of the late Libbie Pollack Lief, dear father of Ruth (Irving) Malin, and Nancy Kelley (Burt) Hunter, proud grandfather of Mark (Rina) Malin, and John Reed Kelley, adored great grandfather of Andrew Scott
 PAGE-Philip P., Jr. A Founding Partner of our parent firm, Phil Page had a brilliant, incisive manner that he used to inspire neophytes in engineering. He engendered client trust. His structural designs for the built environment serve as his monument. We were a company family for 48 years. 
 ROTHENBERG-Dr. Robert E., MD. Age 93, on April 10, 2002, after a short illness. A lifelong resident of NYC, a noted surgeon & author of medical books for the layman, Lt. Col. Retired U.S. Army, graduate of Cornell Univ., 1929, and Cornell Medical College, 1932, former Chief of Surgery at Br
 WOLIN-Robert. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the passing of Robert Wolin. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Toni Wiener, President       
 ZUCKERMAN - Edward. We mourn the loss of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Dr. Richard Storm, President       
 ATKINSON-Clinton J. Please join Clint's family in celebrating his life on Friday, May 10, at 4 PM, All Souls Church, Lexington at 80th St.       
 BROMLEY-Willard S., 93. Of 417 Reeds Landing, Springfield, MA. died April 2 at Mercy Hospital. Born February 13, 1909 in Philadelphia, PA, Bachelor of Science in Forestry from Pennsylvania State University and Master's Degree from Yale University. Held various forestry positions then 25 yea
 BUSHKIN-Bernard L. Died on Wednesday, April 10, 2002. He was 52 years old. Bernie is survived by his wife Amy, stepsons Jason and Adam Rann, his mother Felizia Bushkin and his sister Sheila Bushkin. He is also survived by a large family of his heart. He was predeceased by his father Meyer B
 EARLE-Nathaniel C. The Jewelers Credit Interchange Group mourns the passing of Nathaniel C. Earle. He was a respected and dynamic leader in the jewelry industry as well as a driving force in our organization. His leadership and friendship will be sorely missed.       
 KARPLUS-Esteban J., 64. Died on April 11, 2002 at home surrounded by his wife Elena and children, Natalia, Esteban, Marisa and Alexandra. He is also survived by his brother Hugo. He was a warm and gentle man with boundless intellectual exuberance. This extraordinary man touched the lives of
 KRIEGER-Maxwell. Dear and adored husband of Bette Krieger for 46 years. Loving father of Robert and Melissa, Steven and Cathy, and Suellen and Howard Singer. Proud and cherished PopPop of Lauren, Erica, Samantha, Carly, Melanie, Eric & Alexandra. Loving brother of Marilyn and Irwin Gilden a
 ROSENBAUM-Stephen. Beloved husband of Myrna. Loving father of Mara and Bruce Greenwald, & Geri and Eric Fessler. Cherished grandfather of Gillian, Shaina, Andrew, Taryn & Lizzie. Devoted brother of Cynthia Kramer and Barbara Lustig. Adored uncle. Services today, 10 AM at ''Gutterman's,'' 80
 ROTH-Dr. Michael D. Of Windsor Court, Hummelstown, PA. in his 66th year on April 10, 2002 in Derry Township, PA. Relatives and friends are respectfully invited to attend his Life Celebration from Fred F. Groff Inc., 234 West Orange Street, Lancaster, PA. on Sunday, April 14th at 5:00 PM wit
 ROTHENBERG-Dr. Robert E., MD. Age 93, on April 10, 2002, after a short illness. A lifelong resident of NYC, a noted surgeon & author of medical books for the layman, Lt. Col. Retired U.S. Army, graduate of Cornell Univ., 1929, and Cornell Medical College, 1932, former Chief of Surgery at Br
 TULLER-Dr. Martin Abraham. Formerly of New York City. Died April 10, 2002. At age 72. Martin was a physician in NYC and most recently moved his practice to Westchester. He is survived by his wife Sally, children David, Joanne, Judy Campion (husband Terry) & Wendy Schwartz & grandchildren La
 TURK-Nathan. In memory of our adored son-in-law and brother-inlaw, Nathan ''Toolie'' Turk, the first Jewish Cowboy from the Lower Eastside, who with our daughter, Gloria, bought an old farm and stable for two horses and with back-breaking work, creative imagination & pioneering fortitude we
 PECK-Sidney. January 5, 1926April 12, 1982. Dad, 20 years have passed. To know him is to love him. I love you, Roberta       
 Burton G. Tremaine Jr., a business executive who managed his family's large art collection and philanthropic foundation, died last Saturday in New Orleans. He was 79 and lived in Johns Island, Vero Beach, Fla. His father and stepmother, Burton G. Tremaine Sr. and Emily Hall Tremaine
 Henry J. Kasperowicz, whose work for Allen B. DuMont Laboratories in Passaic, N.J., resulted in one of the early patents for a color television tube, died on March 31 in his home in Vista, Calif. He was 84. Mr. Kasperowicz was a young laboratory worker at DuMont when the patent on h
 ASCH-Michael Francis. Age 39, on April 2, 2002 at his home in San Francisco. He is survived by his loving parents Richard & Barbara, his brother Timothy and wife Kimberley, and his long time friend Michael Sargent. Donations may be made in memory of Michael Asch, AIDS Emergency Fund, 1540 M
 CALLEA-Joseph. Died on April 11th, 2002 after a short illness. He is survived by his loving wife, Janet, and his 3 beloved children, Kimberly and twins Joseph and Anthony, as well as his parents and four brothers and sisters. Mr. Callea was a partner of the accounting firm of Joel Popkin an
 GOLDSTEIN-Leon. April 11, 2002. Beloved husband and friend of Judith, devoted father of Howard and Nancy, Elissa and Edward, Marla & Karl. Adored grandfather of Beryl, Erica, Michael, Jason, Lindsay, Jessica, Jared & Hayley. Grandpa Leon was a good man, a good husband, a good father, a good
 MARX-Leonard Maximilian. Born October 4, 1904 in New York City, died peacefully at home on April 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Virginia Wise Marx. Brother of the late Emily Marx House. Loving father of Sylvia & Leonard Marx Jr. of Greenwich, CT, the late Ellen Marx, Mary Lynn and To
 SCHWETJE-John P. Of Ridge, New York, passed away on Wednesday, April 10, 2002. Born in Astoria, New York on August 7, 1925, he served in the Navy during World War II and the Korean War. He worked as Director of the Art Department of the New York Times from 1960 to 1986. His active retiremen
 TRESCHER-Robert Lincoln. Age 89, suddenly on April 10. Loving husband of Glendora (nee Rollins). Loving father of Victoria Agnich of Dallas, Texas; Ellen Haas of Kirkland, WA. Grandfather of four. A memorial service will be held Monday, April 15, 2 PM at the Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church, 6
 Barry Took, a zany shining light of postwar British comedy who put together the team that became Monty Python's Flying Circus, died on March 31 in London. He was 73. Reports in the British press said that the cause was cancer of the esophagus. Mr. Took's long career included
 AGAR-JH Michael. Born November 9, 1937, died April 5, 2002. Beloved husband & father of Virginia Pratt Agar, Carter, Trevor and Elizabeth. Will be missed by his 3 sisters, Marie Sahwell, Sylvia Morton and Catherine Carney. Contributions may be made to International Myeloma Foundation, Attn:
 ATKINSON-Clinton J. Please join Clint's family in celebrating his life on Friday, May 10, at 4 PM, All Souls Church, Lexington at 80th St.       
 CARY-Sturges Flagler. Born April 1, 1913, Corning, NY, died April 8, 2002, Los Altos, CA. Graduated Allegheny College 1933. Married November 7, 1934, to Sara Templeman Sanderson who died December 21, 1999. City editor at Corning Evening Leader before WWII service. Sorbonne in Paris and Harv
 CLARK-Cameron Jr., 79. Of Fairfield, husband of Lucetta Warren Clark, died Friday, April 5th at Norwalk Hospital, Norwalk. Born on September 28, 1922, he was a lifelong resident of Fairfield, Connecticut. He graduated from Yale University in 1945. He served in the Navy as a Lt.J.G. in the P
 DRESNER-Ralph. On April 13. Beloved husband of the late Blanche Dresner. Devoted father of Iris and grandfather of Michael. His tireless energy and zest for life will always be remembered. He will remain in our hearts forever. Services today, 11 AM, at I.J. Morris Inc. Funeral Home, 1895 Fl
 FATES-Harold (''Joe'') Leighton. Age 92 of Oyster Bay, NY on April 10. He is survived by his beloved wife Margery Gerdes Fates and three children from his marriage to Janet MacLaren White who predeceased him in 1973, Harold L. Jr. of Alamo, CA, Richard J. of Hamilton, MA and Janet F. Scovil
 GANGEL-Richard M. Husband of Karen Gangel. Died April 8, 2002. He was a retired art director of Sports Illustrated. Survived by six children, eleven grandchildren, two great-grandchildren, and one brother.       
 GUZZARDI-Walter P. Award-winning writer, editor, and bureau chief at Time, Inc. over four decades, died Tuesday, March 26, after a brief illness. He was 83. A visiting professor in media studies at Yale and Princeton, he is survived by his wife Anne, three children, and four grandchildren. 
 HARKARVY-Benjamin. Our deep grief and shock is magnified by the fact that Ben was the founder and spiritual father of Nederlands Dans Theater. His spirit will live on in all we do and remain a great source of inspiration to NDT in the future. Marian Sarstadt, Jiri Kylian, Hans van Manen, Ja
 KATZ-Leonard R. Of New York passed away at his Florida home on April 4, 2002. He was 81 years old. Loving son of Rebecca and William Katz. Founder of Katz's Delicatessen. Leonard Katz owned and managed Katz's until his retirement. A Captain in the U.S. Air Force, he was a decorated officer 
 KAUFMANN-Herbert O. 90, on April 12, after a brief illness. Decorated veteran of World War II. A devoted husband and father, he will be held in loving memory by his wife Edith Kaufmann, his daughters Joan Bloom and Margret Kaufmann-Pankov, their husbands Richard Bloom and Gradimir Pankov, h
 KLAPPER-Burt. Born November 14, 1925, died March 26, 2002 of complications from ALS. He was a dedicated husband, loving father and proud grandfather who cherished his family. Burt will be lovingly remembered for his sensitivity, tenacity, loving nature, high level of integrity, and for havi
 KROLL-Douglas A. Treasured nephew, cherished friend. He fought a valiant battle against leukemia. He touched us all by his compassion, sensitivity and love. We will miss him greatly. He will be in our hearts forever. Aunt Etta and Uncle Michael       
 MARX-Leonard Maximilian. Born October 4, 1904 in New York City, died peacefully at home on April 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Virginia Wise Marx. Brother of the late Emily Marx House. Loving father of Sylvia & Leonard Marx Jr. of Greenwich, CT, the late Ellen Marx, Mary Lynn and To
 McCARTHY-Richard Desmond, 75. Of Bermuda Run, North Carolina, passed away Friday, March 29, 2002. Born on April 9, 1926 in Springfield, MA, he served in the US Air Force and later attended Dartmouth College and Rhode Island School of Design. His furniture designs were sold throughout the wo
 MICHELSON-Horace. 83, of New York City, on April 12, 2002. Loving husband, father and grandfather, died suddenly at home. A brilliant corporate attorney, Horace will be remembered for his gentle, unassuming manner, his devotion to social justice, and his unending intellectual curiosity. Hor
 MILLER-Neal. The Board and membership of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback mourn the loss of our esteemed past president, Dr. Neal Miller. Dr. Miller was a noted scientist whose research pioneered the field of Biofeedback. His work lives on but we will miss his gu
 QUAYTMAN-Harvey. On April 8, 2002. Beloved husband of Margaret Moorman. Devoted father of Rebecca and Emma. Cherished grandfather of Iris Preiss. An artist's artist, who embraced life and especially his friends and family. Memorial Service will be held on Sunday, April 21, 2002 at 1:15 PM a
 ROTHENBERG-Dr. Robert E., MD. Age 93, on April 10, 2002, after a short illness. A lifelong resident of NYC, a noted surgeon & author of medical books for the layman, Lt. Col. Retired U.S. Army, graduate of Cornell Univ., 1929, and Cornell Medical College, 1932, former Chief of Surgery at Br
 TUSTIN-Whitney. Died February 18, 2002, age 90, in Denver, CO. Formerly of Muttontown and Jericho, L.I. Survived by his beloved wife, Gilda; three stepchildren: Susan Iadone and Karen Shapiro of NYC and Michael Shapiro of Houston, TX; & a brother, Wayne, of Santa Barbara. Principal oboe, NY
 VARON-Louis. Passed April 11, 2002, after a courageous and valiant battle. Most devoted and loving husband to his cherished wife of 54 years, Esther (Etty). Adored father and best friend to Steve, Jay & Merryl,and their respective spouses Beth, Loren & Frank. Beloved grandfather to Dana, Ja
 WEINMAN-David, 73. Of Jericho, NY, died on April 8. A graduate of CCNY and NYU Law School, he retired from the Dime Savings Bank of New York in 1993. Beloved husband of Sydelle (Chippie). Loving father of Robert and Christine Weinman. Proud grandfather of Rachel and Jonathan. Dearest son-in
 WOLF-James M. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of James M. Wolf, a longtime ADL leader and supporter. An Honorary Life Member of the ADL National Commission, Jim served on our Omaha Regional Board who was committed to fighting hate and building bridges. We will miss him. We ext
 ZWIREN-Dr. Gerald T. Of Atlanta, GA, on March 22, 2002. Soulmate of Mary Rae. Father of Dr. Jeffrey, William and Janine. Fatherin-law of Cindy, Valerie and Dr. Bill Chey. Doting grandfather of Craig, Jenna, Naomi, Eitan, Avel Zwiren; Sammy, Russell and Josie Chey. Adored brother of Joan Gra
 GWIRTZMAN-Burton. September 3, 1925-April 14, 2001. A unique, wise, gentle man, he touched the souls of all who knew him. Until we fish again, Love, Sarina       
 RUSSELL-William T. April 15, 1977. His extraordinary intelligence, integrity and compassion continue to inspire us daily. In loving memory, Mildred K., Catherine Ann, Margaret-Angele, William T. Jr.       
 Robert G. McGruder, the executive editor of The Detroit Free Press, died of cancer on Friday at a hospice in a Detroit suburb. He was 60. Mr. McGruder was known for his efforts in breaking down racial barriers in the newspaper industry by encouraging newspapers to hire staffs that r
 The Rev. Francis X. Murphy, who gave the public a frank and sometimes irreverent inside look at the deliberations of the historic Second Vatican Council under the pseudonym Xavier Rynne, died on Thursday in Annapolis, Md. He was 87. Mr. Murphy had been writer in residence since 1985
 Frank Tovey, an innovative English musician who recorded electronic and industrial music in the 1980's using the name Fad Gadget, died on April 3 at his home in London. He was 46. The cause was a heart ailment, said Roberta Moore, a spokeswoman at his record label, Mute. Mr. Tovey h
 Harvey Quaytman, an abstract painter, died last Monday in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his art dealer, David McKee. Mr. Quaytman's painting combined austere geometry and a quietly hedonistic sensuality of surface and color. His spare, layered compositions
 BADER-Melvin. Died April 13, 2002, in Exeter, NH. Survived by wife Jinny, son Leigh, daughter-inlaw Diane, granddaughter Nikki, brother Stan and sister Sheila Fleisig. We mourn his passing and will remember him with love.       
 EDELMAN - Eugene, M.D., F.A.C.S. Died Saturday, April 13, 2002, at age 71 after a courageous, steadfast and heroic five year fight to survive cancer. Beloved, cherished and loyal husband to Sheila, with whom he shared a profound and passionate true love for 46 years. He also leaves behind h
 MARX-Leonard Maximilian. Born October 4, 1904 in New York City, died peacefully at home on April 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Virginia Wise Marx. Brother of the late Emily Marx House. Loving father of Sylvia & Leonard Marx Jr. of Greenwich, CT, the late Ellen Marx, Mary Lynn and To
 MICHELSON-Horace. 83, of New York City, on April 12, 2002. Loving husband, father and grandfather, died suddenly at home. A brilliant corporate attorney, Horace will be remembered for his gentle, unassuming manner, his devotion to social justice, and his unending intellectual curiosity. Hor
 NEEDHAM-James J. Died on April 12 in his 65th year. Eldest child of the late James Needham and Alice McKeown Needham. Beloved brother of Mary Alice McKenna, Christine Needham and the late Patricia Edgar. Brother-inlaw of Patrick F. McKenna, Sr. Loving uncle to Patricia McKenna-Bausch, Mary 
 RUSSELL-William T. April 15, 1977. His extraordinary intelligence, integrity and compassion continue to inspire us daily. In loving memory, Mildred K., Catherine Ann, Margaret-Angele, William T. Jr       
 Richard H. Hadley, a real estate developer in the Pacific Northwest and Hawaii who bought the ocean liner United States -- one of the biggest, fastest ships -- as a potential floating condominium complex, died March 19 in Honolulu. He was 80. His wife, Barbara, said he collapsed two
 Adrian Evans, the chief executive of the London partnership of Lazard L.L.C., died Sunday morning of a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the bank said today. He was 60. Better known for his skill as a manager than as a deal maker, Mr. Evan's steely charm helped steer the investment ba
 Byron R. White, the football legend who became one of the longest serving justices of the United States Supreme Court, died yesterday in Denver. He was 84, and the only living former Supreme Court justice. The cause was complications from pneumonia, a statement from the Supreme Cour
 J. William Stanton, a former Republican congressman from Ohio who went on to focus on development and international banking issues, died on Thursday at a hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 78. The cause was complications from pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Stanton lived
 BASNER-Max Irving, age 88. Born July 4, 1913 in NYC. Passed away peacefully under hospice care on April 11, 2002, in Florida of congestive heart failure. A graduate of CCNY, Columbia School of Law and Brooklyn Law School. He served in the US Army during World War II as an instructor and law
 KROCHMAL-Steven. Died April 13, 2002. The officers and members of the Knights of Pythias Grand Lodge Domain of New York mourn the untimely passing of our beloved Brother and Grand Secretary, PGC Steven Krochmal. Our heartfelt condolences go to his mother Ann, his brothers Sheldon and Saul a
 LENOK-Eugene. Longtime and dedicated Financial Director of the America-Israel Cultural Foundation. We express our sympathy to his wonderful family. On behalf of the Board, Vera Stern, President Harvey Rothenberg, Treasurer       
 LONDON-Huguette. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the death of the wife of our founding Chairman of Medicine, Dr. Irving London. His many colleagues here at the medical school extend sincere condolences to the entire London family. Dominick P. 
 MALIN-Jacob. On April 15, 2002, in Stamford, CT. Beloved father of Herbert Malin. Also survived by a sister, Lillian Levine and by five grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. Graveside service will be held on Wedesday, April 17, at 1pm, at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY. Shiva will be 
 MARX-Leonard Maximilian. Born October 4, 1904 in New York City, died peacefully at home on April 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Virginia Wise Marx. Brother of the late Emily Marx House. Loving father of Sylvia & Leonard Marx Jr. of Greenwich, CT, the late Ellen Marx, Mary Lynn and To
 MORRIS-Robert J. Of Northvale, NJ. On Monday, April 15, 2002. Beloved husband of Joan (nee Wigmore). Devoted father of Marianne, John, the late Captain James J., his wife Diane, Marguerite Arnold and her husband Jonathan, and Peter and his wife Traci Lynn. Loving grandfather of Julia Grace,
 O'SHEA-William J. On April 14, 2002 at the age of 60. Beloved husband of Rosemary O'Shea (nee Brandstrader) loving father of James, his wife Maria Elena, William Jr. and Francis. Devoted son of Mary Glass O'Shea and cherished brother of Edward and Kathy and Thomas and Maureen. Family will r
 ROTHENBERG-Robert, M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend who served our institution as a practicing surgeon and Director of Surgical Research. Dr. Rothenberg was a dedicated physici
 RUBELL-Phil. Born August 28, 1909 in New York City, died peacefully in Miami Beach on April 13, 2002 at the age of 92. Son of Louis and Fanny. Loving husband and and friend of Ann. Father of the late Steve Rubell, of Studio 54 fame and Donald Rubell, MD. Father-in-law of Mera. Grandfather o
 Damon Knight, a prolific science fiction writer and editor whose wry humor found its biggest audience in ''To Serve Man,'' a short story that was adapted into a beloved episode of ''The Twilight Zone,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Eugene, Ore., his family said. He was 79 and lived in Eu
 Elmer Angsman, who set a National Football League postseason rushing record when his Chicago Cardinals defeated the Philadelphia Eagles in the 1947 championship game, died last Thursday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 76. Angsman, who lived in Juno Beach, Fla., and Chicago, had a he
 F. Kenneth Iverson, the former chief executive of the Nucor Corporation, who revolutionized the steel industry and turned his steel mini-mill into the nation's largest steel producer, died on Sunday in Charlotte, N.C.. He was 76. Daniel R. DiMicco, Nucor's chief executive, declined 
 BRIGHTMAN-Bill. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague Bill. He was a thoughtful man who always had a kind word and smile for everyone. Our hearts and prayers go out to Carol and the Brightman family. Your Friends at AFD Contract Furniture       
 CHARNEY-Wolfe R. Wife Rita, (Greenfield) Charney, sons Jonathan, Michael, Richard, and Robert, and 7 grandchildren mourn the death of their loving and devoted Wolfe. Graduate of Yeshiva College and Harvard Law, Attorney, generous and strong supporter of Israel, Jewish culture, Arts and Comm
 FREIMARK-Justin. On April 15, 2002 in his 92nd year. Beloved husband of Inez for 61 years, devoted father of Bruce Freimark and Irene Sternberg, dear father-in-law of Anita Freimark, and Ronald Sternberg. Cherished Opa of Aaron, Jason, and Daniel Freimark, and Alison and Scott Sternberg. Se
 GOLDMAN-Irving, April 7, 2002. Sarah Lawrence College notes with sorrow the death of Professor Emeritus Irving Goldman, member of the anthropology faculty from 1947 to 1981. He was a revered scholar, a master teacher, and a man of wisdom and generosity. We will always remember and honor him
 KLEINER-Harold J. Died on April 14, 2002 in Los Angeles due to complications from colon surgery. Born and raised in New York, he started his long career in the music industry in 1972 at Columbia Records. After 17 years with Columbia & the Columbia Record Club, he moved to Los Angeles and wo
 LERMAN-Herbert. Loving husband of 65 years to Pearl. Adored father of Toby and Stephen Appel, and David, Roy & Karen Lerman. Poppy Honey to 12 grandchildren & six great grandchildren. Caring brother. Founder of Olympic Office Supply. He will be missed by all. Services Thursday, April 18th, 
 MENDELS-Robert I. A longtime resident of Rye, NY, died on April 15, 2002, peacefully at his home. He is survived by his daughter, Rolanda Mendels of Los Angeles, CA and his son and daughter-in-law David and Barbara Mendels of Mt. Kisco, NY. Also survived by his grandchildren, Liysa and Alex
 NEEDHAM-James J. Died on April 12 in his 65th year. Funeral Mass Wednesday at St. Jean the Baptiste, Lexington Ave. at 76th St.       
 REIN-Moe. Beloved husband of Doris and the late Florence. Devoted father of Bert and the late Mark. Cherished grandfather of Jo, Ben, Sam, Nicki and Alex and great grandfather of two. Services Thursday 12 noon at RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. In lieu
 SAITY-David. Passed away suddenly at age 71 on April 15, 2002. Beloved husband for 35 years of Chaya nee Polonsky, devoted brother of Ruth Batat, Hava Sasson and Hezy Sity, cherished uncle of many nieces and nephews. Born in Baghdad, Iraq in 1930, David Saity later immigrated to Israel and 
 SENVILLE-Melvin ''Mel'' of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Lawrence, L.I., passed away April 16, 2002. Loving husband of Beverly, to whom he was married 53 years. Adored father of Robert (Patricia) and Wayne (Lila) Senville. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Joanna, Jacob and Amelia. Memorial c
 VINCENT-Mitchell C. Retired Music Educator, Ardsley, NY died Thursday, April 11, 2002 at the Littleton Regional Hospital, Littleton, NH. Surviving are his wife, Jane Lazo Vincent, 3 children, Jacqueline Vincent, James Vincent, Virginia Foss, 3 stepdaughters, Sandra Shepard, Sarah Scott, Mar
 WURZBURGER-Dr. Walter S. Congregation Shaaray Tefila in Lawrence records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed Rabbi Emeritus Dr. Walter S. Wurzburger. Renowned scholar, author and teacher who inspired and led our congregation for more than three decades. His legacy as a communal
 Charles H. Mullen, chairman and chief executive of the American Tobacco Company at a difficult time, died Sunday at a Stamford, Conn., hospital. He was 74 and lived in Darien, Conn. The family did not announce a cause of death. He retired in 1992 as chairman and chief execut
 David Saity, who made his Manhattan jewelry store famous for selling the biggest and brightest examples of American Indian jewelry, died on Monday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 71. The family did not announce a specific cause of death. Mr. Saity was
 Dr. Hans Neurath, a biochemist who advanced modern protein science to explain the makeup and workings of some of life's elemental building blocks, died on Friday in Seattle. He was 92. The founding chairman of the department of biochemistry at the University of Washington medical sc
 ASHWORTH-William. Born October 9, 1920, died April 16, 2002, after a lengthy battle with melanoma. Bill was loved by most everyone he met and was particularly loved by his wife Lou and his three children, Margaret, Polly and Warren. He was considered the best of all possible fathers-in-law 
 BRAM-Morris E. (Monty). Monty passed away peacefully in his sleep on Tuesday April 16. Beloved husband of M.D. (Lita Taracido). He is survived by his son Jason and daughter-in-law Sarah; granddaughter Emily; stepchildren David and Juli; stepgrandchildren Martine and Gabriela and many cousin
 BRENNAN-Patrick J. 75, formerly of East Norwich, died April 16, in Cooperstown. For more than 30 years, Pat was director of leasing for the General Motors Corporation Building on Fifth Avenue, later Corporate Property Investors, retiring in 1997. He is survived by his wife, Maureen, daughte
 CHARNEY-Wolfe. The Board and staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc. (NYANA) are saddened by the passing of its board member Wolfe Charney. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rita and his entire family. Michael Loeb, President Mark Handelman, Executive V.P.   
 DORFMAN-Sidney H., 85, of Tamarac, Florida, passed away on April 14, 2002. He is predeceased by his wife, Roslyn, of 61 years; survived by his devoted children, Debby (Rick) Ashenfarb and Bill (Jancy) Dorfman; his adoring sister, Betty Weinstein; brother-inlaw, Dr. Arnold and Joan Soloway; 
 DOSCHER-Nathan, Ph.D. Beloved husband for 68 years to Elizabeth. Devoted father to Daniel and Dr. William (Margery). Cherished grandfather to Jesse (Julie), Wendy (Jeremy), Benjamin and Matthew. Dedicated teacher, coach and friend to generations of students. Emeritus Professor of Health and
 GOLDSTEIN-Dr. Phillip J. We mourn the passing of our dear friend (Dr. Phil). He was a kind and thoughtful man who always had a smile for everyone. We will miss him dearly. Our hearts go out to Vicki and the Goldstein family. The Tuesday Night Gang: Norman & Harriet Bernstein, Butch & Valeri
 LERMAN-Herbert. Loving husband of 65 years to Pearl. Adored father of Toby and Stephen Appel, and David, Roy & Karen Lerman. Poppy Honey to 12 grandchildren & six great grandchildren. Caring brother. Founder of Olympic Office Supply. He will be missed by all. Services Thursday, April 18th, 
 LONDON-Huguette. Dr. Irving M. London's former colleagues in the Department of Medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine were saddened to learn of the death of Huguette, his wife. Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University       
 MICHELSON-Horace. The whole Segal family mourns the passing of a cherished friend of over 50 years. His wit, his intelligence, and his concern for social issues enriched us all. Jean, especially, will miss her longtime scrabble partner. He shall be greatly missed by all. Jean and Charles   
 REIN-Morris (Moe). Father of the late Mark Rein. An extraordinary man. He was our adoring grandfather and dear father-in-law. He will always be remembered with love. Nicki, Alex and Denny Rein       
 SEGAL-Robert O. Of Lake Worth, Fl., formerly of Holliswood, NY. Born January 2, 1913, died April 15, 2002. Beloved husband of Marsha (nee Kaiser). Father of Mark (Susan), Beth (Michael) and the late Edward Segal. Grandfather of Debbie Rosenfield (Lyle) and Andy Segal. Great-grandfather of M
 TINKLEPAUGH-Frost L. Aged 96, April 11, 2002, in Tucson. Beloved husband of Ruth and father of Ann Jupp and Wendy Soloway. Graduate of Wichita University and Harvard Business School. His optimism, enthusiasm, and devotion to family will be greatly missed.       
 WAYNE-William, MD. We mourn the loss of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Dr. Richard Storm, President       
 WERNICKE-Herbert. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the untimely death of Herbert Wernicke. The beautiful production of Strauss's ''Die Frau ohne Schatten'' he staged here this past December will live on as a memorial to his exceptional talent. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family,
 WURZBURGER-Walter S., Rabbi. We are so profoundly saddened by the passing of Walter, and we grieve that we only had so short a time to get to know this very noble and distinguished man. His brilliance, warmth, wit and elegance touched us greatly. To dear Naomi, Benjamin and Mindy, Myron, Li
 Walter S. Wurzburger, an Orthodox rabbi who was a leader in theological dialogue with thinkers in other branches of Judaism and with Christians, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Lawrence, N.Y. Rabbi Wurzburger, trained as both a rabbi and a
 Cyrus Colter, whose novels and short stories were about the black working class and middle class, died on Monday in Evanston, Ill. He was 92. Mr. Colter began writing fiction in middle age, after practicing law, holding government posts and heading the African-American studies depar
 AINSWORTH-William E. Jr., 65. Resident of Manhattan. Retired Stockbroker. Founder and President of Nassau Securities, Inc., an institutional investment firm. Graduated from Cornell University in 1958, and attended the University of Paris. Served in the US Navy as an Intelligence Officer abo
 BARNETT-Dr. Lester A. April 18, 2002. The Boards of Trustees, members of the Medical and Dental Staff and employees of Monmouth Medical Center and Monmouth Health Care Foundation are deeply saddened by the passing of Lester A. Barnett, MD, a distinguished surgeon and ardent supporter of the
 BRODEY-Stanley Carl, 81. Awardwinning water colorist, former longtime resident of Woodmere, LI. Beloved brother of Jesse, Dr. Marvin, Elaine Brodey, and the late Dr. Adrian. Kind and loving uncle to seven nieces and nephews and ten grand-nieces. Died April 17 at Lenox Hill Hospital. His wit
 KLEIN-Harvey W. Died Thursday, April 18, 2002 of lung cancer at his home in Greenwich Village, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Harvey was born December 1, 1924 in West New York, N.J. to Emil and Sylvia Klein. He saw combat in W.W. II as a Corporal in the First Division of the U.S. Army from July 
 LICHTER-Jerome. Beloved husband of Rhoda (nee Schlosberg); loving father to Jeff and Marc and their wives Becky and Lynne; adoring grandfather to his delicious Gillian; dear brother to Hilda & her husband Ben Grable; on April 18, 2002. Forever loved by his family, forever remembered by his 
 MICHELSON-Horace. The Board of Directors and 12,000 employees of The Chubb Corporation mourn the passing of Horace Michelson, the beloved husband of G.G. Michelson, a retired member of Chubb's Board of Directors. In the course of Mrs. Michelson's many years of valued service and counsel to 
 MULLEN-Charles H. The board and staff of The Greater New York Councils Boy Scouts of America extend their deepest sympathy to the family of our longtime friend and benefactor, Charles H. Mullen. His tireless efforts and affections for the Boy Scouts will be long remembered. John F. McGillic
 WHITE-Byron R. The members of our Association of former Assistant United States Attorneys mourn the passing and celebrate the eminent career of The Honorable Byron R. White. In particular, during his tenure as Deputy Attorney General, Justice White, to whom we reported, taught us integrity 
 WURZBURGER-Walter S., Rabbi, Dr. We met every Sunday morning for more than 20 years, after services, for an intimate and friendly coffee hour. Every subject was allowed. Torah for certain, Jewish affairs and current events-Israeli, American and wordly, business news, the world of scholarshi
 Thor Heyerdahl, the Norwegian anthropologist and adventurer whose imagination and vigor brought him acclaim navigating the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian Oceans to advance his controversial theories of ancient seafaring migrations, died yesterday. He was 87. Mr. Heyerdahl died of canc
 Wesley J. Howe, the former chief executive, president and chairman of Becton Dickinson & Company, a major maker of medical devices and diagnostic systems, died on March 30 at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J. He was 80. He had suffered from Lou Gehrig's disease, The Star-Ledger of Ne
 James S. Martin Jr., the aeronautical engineer who oversaw the twin missions that produced the first maps and close-up pictures of Mars, died on Sunday in Rising Sun, the small town in far northeastern Maryland where he lived. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said the Langley Resear
 AINSWORTH-William E. Jr., 65. Resident of Manhattan. Retired Stockbroker. Founder and President of Nassau Securities, Inc., an institutional investment firm. Graduated from Cornell University in 1958, and attended the University of Paris. Served in the US Navy as an Intelligence Officer abo
 BARNETT-Lester A. The officers, trustees and members of the Ocean Beach Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Lester A. Barnett. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Sandy Paskin, President Nancy Lobell, Secretary       
 CAMPO-J. William (''Bill''). Beloved husband of Dorothy. Beloved brother of Mary (Jim Fleming). Beloved uncle to the Noells and Flemings. Beloved father of Priscilla (Michael Press), Jack (Betsy), Mary Kay (Chet Cobb), Didi, Joanie (Chris Carter), Tom and nine grandchildren. He died peacefu
 FELDMAN - Dr. George. On Thursday, April 18, 2002. Beloved husband of Lenore. Adored father of Dr. David & Debra Feldman, Andrew and Mindy Feldman, Dr. Michael & Robin Feldman, Sharon & Neil Danzger. Loving grandfather of Corey, Samantha, Russell, Zachary, Jessica, Lauren, Avery, Jaclyn, Sa
 KRONES-Fred H., on April 18th, 2002. Born January 17th, 1926 in Passaic, NJ. Son of Edward and Anna. Husband of the late Rose Goodstein. He will be deeply missed by sister Amy Ross, children Patty and Michael Silver, Michael and Janet Krones, Judith Krones and David Schorr, grandchildren Je
 SHERLIP-Milton. On April 19, 2002 at age 84. Survived by his wife Ruth and granddaughter Corinna. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Saturday, April 20th 7-9PM. Services will be held on Sunday, April 21st, at 11 A.M.       
 Richard G. Kraus, a New York native who so loved square dancing that he christened himself Texas Dick and became a leading square dance caller and then transformed himself into a much-published authority on recreation, died on March 28 at his home in Lower Gwynedd Township, Pa. He was 78.  
 Rudolf Kapustin, an air crash investigator whose career stretched from the 1963 crash that killed Patsy Cline to the A-300 crash in Queens last November, died on Wednesday at his home in Columbia, Md. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. As an investi
 Staley T. McBrayer, a publisher of small Texas newspapers and a tinkerer who turned a castoff offset press designed to print small circulars into a printing press that revolutionized the industry, died on Sunday in Fort Worth. He was 92. His press, which was cobbled together from bi
 Layne Staley, the lead singer of the pioneering grunge band Alice in Chains, was found dead on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 34 years old. Alice in Chains was one of the first grunge bands to gain national attention. Beginning with its 1990 EP, ''We Die Young,'' the group sa
 ALFREDO-Frank A. Died unexpectedly on April 18, 2002, during his return home to Waccabuc, NY, from Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Frank was born in Mt. Vernon, NY, to the late Albert and Rose Alfredo. He was a devoted and loving husband to Dolores Palmer Alfredo for 42 years and the adoring father
 BLACK-Bertram J. On April 8, in Laguna Hills, CA. Survived by his wife Rose, children Bruce, Paul and Anne, and brother Sydney. BLACK-Bertram. Founder of Medical and Health Research Association of New York City and its first Board Chair. Social worker, mental health expert, research
 CAMPO-J. William (''Bill''). Beloved husband of Dorothy. Beloved brother of Mary (Jim Fleming). Beloved uncle to the Noells and Flemings. Beloved father of Priscilla (Michael Press), Jack (Betsy), Mary Kay (Chet Cobb), Didi, Joanie (Chris Carter), Tom and nine grandchildren. He died peacefu
 CONTI-Vincent J., 83, of Topsham, ME. passed away on Thursday, April 11 at Mid Coast Hospital in Brunswick, ME. He was Director of Pharmacy at the Hospital for Special Surgery in Manhattan for 33 years, retiring in 1984. A World War II veteran serving in the U.S. Army, 230th AAA BN in the P
 FELDMAN - Dr. George. On Thursday, April 18, 2002. Beloved husband of Lenore. Adored father of Dr. David & Debra Feldman, Andrew and Mindy Feldman, Dr. Michael & Robin Feldman, Sharon & Neil Danzger. Loving grandfather of Corey, Samantha, Russell, Zachary, Jessica, Lauren, Avery, Jaclyn, Sa
 HAUPTMAN-Bernard. Of Hewlett Neck, NY and Boynton Beach, FL on Friday, April 19, 2002. Beloved husband and lifelong friend of Mildred. Devoted father of Jonathan and the late William. Cherished father-in-law of Cynthia. Loving grandfather of Emily and Wesley. He will be remembered as a cari
 KRONES-Fred H., on April 18th, 2002. Born January 17th, 1926 in Passaic, NJ. Son of Edward and Anna. Husband of the late Rose Goodstein. He will be deeply missed by sister Amy Ross, children Patty and Michael Silver, Michael and Janet Krones, Judith Krones and David Schorr, grandchildren Je
 PUELLE-John E. Died peacefully on April 16, 2002, in NYC. Beloved brother of Frederick, Richard, and Virginia. He will be greatly missed by his family and many friends.       
 RAPHAEL-Dr. Jerry. Of NY, NY died March 22, 2002 of a cerebral aneurysm at the age of sixty-one. Beloved father of Marisa Raphael and brother of Madeleine Klein. Dr. Raphael received his Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from Yeshiva University and had an active private practice since 1980. He g
 SENVILLE-Melvin (Mel). Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Lawrence, LI. Passed away April 15, 2002. Beloved husband of Beverly. Loving father of Robert (Patricia) and Wayne (Lila) Senville. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Joanna, Jacob, and Amelia. Respected builder and developer, responsible
 SHERLIP-Milton. On April 19, 2002 at age 84. Survived by his wife Ruth and granddaughter Corinna. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. on Sunday, April 21st, at 11 A.M.       
 SPECTOR-Sidney. Died April 9, 2002 at the age of 89 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sylvia, deceased, loving husband of Clara Linn, devoted father and father-inlaw of Larry and Paula Spector, Judy and Tim Volem. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan, Jenny, Scott, Eli and Margot. He wi
 SUGAAR-Stephen, M.D., 90. Of Canaan, New York, died April 18, 2002 at Berkshire Medical Center, Pittsfield, MA. Born on April 20, 1911 in Budapest, Hungary the son of Vilmos and Jenny Spitz Sugaar, he graduated from medical school in Hungary and then worked at the Pasteur Institute of medic
 Randy Tufts, who with a friend stumbled upon Kartchner Caverns, an untouched subterranean wonderland of geological creativity, and then kept it secret for 14 years, until he was confident that it would be protected, died on April 1 in Tucson. He was 53. The cause was myelodysplastic
 Reginald Rose, the television playwright best known for writing and co-producing the movie ''Twelve Angry Men,'' died Friday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 81. Mr. Rose stood out among writers in television's golden age for his willingness to tackle social and political issu
 Josef Svoboda, a Czech stage designer who combined an architect's precision, a technician's ingenuity and an artist's vision to evoke magically imaginary worlds in more than 700 theatrical productions, died on April 8 in Prague. He was 81. Jarka M. Burian, his biographer, said he ap
 Layne Staley, the lead singer of the pioneering grunge band Alice in Chains, was found dead on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 34. Duane Fish, a spokesman for the Seattle Police Department, said that when the police were called on Friday to check on Mr. Staley, officers forcib
 CAMPO-J. William (''Bill''). Died peacefully at age 81 in Jupiter, FL. Beloved husband of Dorothy (''Dodie''), adored father of Priscilla (Michael Press), Jack (Betsy), Mary Kay (Chet Cobb), Didi, Joanie (Chris Carter), Tom and nine grandchildren, Michael and Dodie Press, Katie, Gigi and Wi
 WALLS-Gerard J. On April 20, 2002. Age 52. Devoted husband and father, he is survived by his wife Kathleen Donahue, his sons Scott and Eric. He was predeceased by father Gerard F. Walls and brother Brian. Also survived by mother Catherine V. Walls, sister Catherine M. and brother Thomas. Vi
 Ogden Phipps, the financier and sportsman who became the pillar of horse racing in New York in the middle years of the 20th century, died yesterday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 93. Mr. Phipps was the central figure in a family dynasty built on steel, investment bank
 BAUMEL-Philip, Dr. Passed on April 18, 2002 at the age of 69 after a long illness. He was a loving husband to his wife, Sylvia (who passed in 1995), devoted father, grandfather, teacher and author. He recently retired after 40 years as a professor of physics at CCNY. During his tenure at CC
 CAMPO-J. William (''Bill''). Died peacefully at age 81 in Jupiter, FL. Beloved husband of Dorothy (''Dodie''), adored father of Priscilla (Michael Press), Jack (Betsy), Mary Kay (Chet Cobb), Didi, Joanie (Chris Carter), Tom and nine grandchildren, Michael and Dodie Press, Katie, Gigi and Wi
 DONNELLY-James Joseph, 69, of Beach Haven Terrace, NJ formerly of Mahwah, NJ and Ridgewood, NJ died peacefully on April 20, 2002. Beloved husband of 41 years to Kay (VanWettering). Loving father and father-in-law of Jim and Susan Donnelly of Mahwah, NJ, Ken and Arlene Donnelly of Oviedo, FL
 JAMMER-Jay. On Monday, April 22, 2002 of Greenwich, CT. and Boynton Beach, FL. passed away peacefully at Greenwich Hospital, with family members at his side. He is survived by Halina, his loving wife of 48 years; his 3 children: Howard (Jessica) of Weston, CT, Jeffrey (Margaret) of Louisvil
 JEFFERS-Monsignor Vincent W. Former Director of the Propagation of the Faith and retired Pastor of Our Lady of Perpetual Help Church, Pelham Manor, died April 19, 2002. Visiting hours at the Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Avenue, Pelham, on Wednesday, 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. Mass of Christian Bur
 KLIBANOFF-Leonard. On April 22, 2002. Beloved husband of Susan Waldman. Also survived by his cousins, Toby and Allan Flink, and Steven and Joanne Grolnic. Donations in his memory can be made to the American Cancer Society. Services on Tuesday, 1 P.M., at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and A
 LIPKIN-Leonard, from Clifton, NJ. With great sadness, we mourn Lenny's death on April 20th, at a young 76 years of age. Condolences to his devoted wife Lorraine, who worked tirelessly these past few months to help relieve his painful existence caused by his cancer, and to his son Peter and 
 MOORE-Frank. Artist and AIDS activist, on April 21, 2002, at 48, after living triumphantly for 17 years with HIV/AIDS. He is survived by his partner Patrick F. Orton, stepmother Katherine Moore of NYC, brother Arthur Moore of Pasadena, CA, sister Rebecca Moore, of Los Gatos, CA, sister Eliz
 PERLMAN-Ivan Lee. Of New York City and Durham, NH, passed away at his home in New York on Friday, April 19, 2002. Lee was born in Brooklyn in 1930. He attended the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn at night & graduated in 1959 with a BME in mechanical engineering. He also completed the Adva
 ROSE-Reginald. Adored and beloved husband of Ellen, father of Jon, Richard, Steven, Andrew (deceased), Thomas, and Christopher & grandfather of Ben, Alexandra, Mollie, Christina and Jasper. Remembered by all always for his generous, loving and courageous heart, his exuberance of spirit, his
 STERNHEIM-Howard D. At age 70. Beloved husband of Sharon. Devoted father to Deborah, Patti and Robert. Loving grandfather to Allison, Erika, Ashley, Rachel and Alana. An esteemed businessman & a man of tremendous integrity, humor and courage, he died on April 22nd after a long battle with c
 ZEIDNER-H. Jeff, M.D., noted Hollywood Ob/Gyn, born June 27, 1928, passed away on April 20th. Dr. Zeidner, a longtime Los Angeles resident, is an alumnus of C.C.N.Y. and of the New York Medical College. Dr. Zeidner served with the United States Armed Forces Medical Corps at Ft. Sam Houston,
 Willis J. Winn, a former Federal Reserve Bank official and Wharton School dean who helped shape the country's economic policies in the 1960's and 1970's, died on April 11 at a hospital in Kansas City, Mo. He was 84 and lived in Trimble, Mo. He suffered a stroke, his family said.    
 Jay Chiat, the coolly cerebral and fiercely passionate executive who helped transform the advertising industry in the 1970's and 1980's with creative campaigns like ''1984'' for Apple and ''I Love L.A.'' for Nike died yesterday at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 70. Mr. Ch
 ADAMS-Laurence M., Ph.D. The family and friends of Pat and Eric Selch extend their deepest sympathy and condolences to the family of Dr. Larry and his friend William Melton. ''The meek shall inherit the earth.''       
 BILDNER-Julius, 94. Died in the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, NY, beloved husband of the late Dorothy. He is survived by his brother, Ruby Bildner. Devoted father of Ileen (Jerome), Annette (Arnold), Carl (Linda) and Bertram (Stephanie). Cherished grandfather of Beth, Michael, Dani
 CHIAT-Jay. The Trustees and Staff of Dia Art Foundation mourn the loss of our friend and Trustee, Jay Chiat. A great supporter of Dia, its collection and programs, Jay was tireless in his commitment to contemporary art, artists, and architects. Jay will be deeply missed for his friendship a
 DANZIGER-Dr. Herbert. On April 21st at Boca Raton. Devoted husband of Eleanor (Rosner). Loving father of Kathy (Jerry), Peter (Joan), Michael. Cherished grandfather of Julie, Reuben, Lisa, Carrie and Beth. Lecturer, Mount Sinai Dental Clinic, lifetime of caring for his patients. Loved for h
 GRAYBARD-Jules Mitchell. April 21 at 88, in Fredericksburg, VA. Husband of Evelyn and the late Helen. Brother of Stephen. Father of Christina, Winifred, Jane, and Stewart. Grandfather and greatgrandfather. Born in Poland, educated at Brooklyn College and NYU. Awarded Bronze Star for WWII se
 GRIMES-Paul M. April 23, 2002. Husband of Miriam (nee Blechman). Father of Robert (Beth) Grimes, Seth (Franca) Grimes and Joshua (Randi) Grimes. Brother of Walter (Janice) Grimes. Grandfather of Melissa, Lauren, Ezra, Raphael, Adam and Andrew. Relatives and friends are invited to Funeral Se
 JAMNER-Jay. On Monday, April 22, 2002 of Greenwich, CT. and Boynton Beach, FL. passed away peacefully at Greenwich Hospital, with family members at his side. He is survived by Halina, his loving wife of 48 years; his 3 children: Howard (Jessica) of Weston, CT, Jeffrey (Margaret) of Louisvil
 KOSTER-Rev. Raymond. Passed away on Tuesday, April 23, 2002, in Lutheran Medical Center. He had been residing at the Norwegian Christian Home. Rev. Koster was born on April 16, 1925. A decorated Army veteran of W.W. II, he entered the Holy Ministry following his military service. In the U.S
 LEVINE-Irving Alfred. On April 22 in Pompano Beach, FL. Age 92. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy (nee Mauser). Devoted father of Barbara and Edward Cohen, Carolyn and Michael Penn. Cherished by his grandchildren Gary and Sheryl Blitz, Eric and Karen Blitz, Gail and Neil Herbst, Kevin and
 MOORE-Frank. Artists Space mourns the passing of our beloved Board member and friend, Frank Moore, a remarkable man who gave the world great vision through his art and necessary change through his activism. His inspirational leadership, generosity, kindness and gracious insight will be grea
 NEWBURGER-Roger Alan, 83. Of White Plains, New York, died on April 22, 2002. A former editor and manager of McGraw Hill's nuclear publications, Roger spent his retirement years as a dedicated volunteer for various Westchester organizations. Loving and devoted husband of 51 years, father, an
 PHIPPS-Ogden. The New York Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association (NYTHA) express our deepest sympathy to the family of Ogden Phipps. The distinguished former Chairman of the Jockey Club will be sorely missed. He set unique guidelines for thoroughbred horseracing and became the preeminent figu
 SALTZ-Peter. Age 84. Died April 20, 2002. Resident of West Palm Beach, FL. & former stockbroker from Queens. He is survived by wife Eve, children Carl, Anita and Ralph, and 7 grandchildren. A civil rights activist, he had a fifty-year association with the Jamaica NAACP, where he was Preside
 STERNHEIM-Howard. Our profound condolences to his family. Howard lived his life with integrity and bravery, and was an inspiration to all who knew him. He will be missed and remembered. Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow       
 WEIL-Gilbert H. On April 22, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Louise. Loving father of Allen and Jeffrey. Devoted grandfather of David and Edward. He will be profoundly missed. Visiting Thursday, 7-9 P.M., service Friday 11:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.   
 WEINSTEIN-Joseph. In Tamarac, Florida on April 22, 2002. Dearly beloved husband of Norma and father to Dorothy Wolf (David) and Richard Weinstein (Sandi). Grandfather to Scott, Heather, and Jonathan, Alex and Casey. He was a devoted husband, a wonderful father and grandfather, and our hero.
 Paul Grimes, a former editor, foreign correspondent and travel columnist for The New York Times, died yesterday in Abington, Pa. He was 77 and lived in Glenside, Pa. The cause was complications from hip surgery after a fall, his family said. He had been in failing health, undergoing
 Alan Dale, the Brooklyn-born baritone who crooned his way to popularity in the late 1940's and the 1950's with hits like ''Oh, Marie'' and ''Cherry Pink (and Apple Blossom White),'' died on Saturday at a hospital in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Mr. Dale, who lived in Sheepshead Bay, was 73.        
 Herbert Wernicke, an innovative German opera director and designer, died on April 16 in Basel, Switzerland. He was 56 and lived in Basel. The cause was a lung embolism, a Metropolitan Opera spokeswoman said. Mr. Wernicke worked frequently at the opera house in Basel, where h
 CHIAT-Jay. The Trustees and Staff of the Guggenheim Museum extend heartfelt sympathy to the family and friends of Jay Chiat. He was an ardent art supporter and passionate advocate of innovative architecture. Peter B. Lewis, Chairman Thomas Krens, Director Solomon R. Guggenheim Fdtn.        
 CLARK-Winifred Harold, Jr. Died suddenly, April 14, 2002. Hal is survived by his wife, the Reverend Margaret Ann (Margo) Peckham Clark. Funeral at the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church, 175 9th Ave., Saturday, April 27 at 10 AM. The Right Reverend, Andrew H. Fairfield, Bi
 COLEMAN-Benjamin, M.D. At age 90. Beloved husband of Alice for 62 years. Devoted father, grandfather & great grandfather. Peacefully passed away on April 24, 2002. Retired surgeon who loved life, medicine and his family. Graveside services Thursday, April 25th, at 11 A.M. at the New Montefi
 DANZIGER-Herbert, Dr. We deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Herbert Danziger. His gentle manner and warmth endeared him to us all. He will always be in our hearts and we will be there for his beloved Ellie and family. Dr. William and Lenore Groisser Dr. Herman and He
 FISCHER-Louis T. Of Yonkers on April 23, 2002, at the age of 89. Survived by his wife Edith, sons James and Stephen, and five grandchildren. Mr. Fischer was Senior V.P., and Media Director of Danzer, Fitzgerald, Sample Advertising Agency, where he was honored with several distinguished Adve
 FRIEDMAN-Emmanuel. We say a sad farewell to a wonderful cousin and friend. He will always be in our hearts. Irving and Muriel Gerstein and Family       
 FRIEDMAN-Rivka. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations extends condolences to our esteemed colleague, Israel Friedman, on the passing of his beloved wife, Rivka. We pray that he and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mortime
 GIBBS-Howard G., 82. Longtime executive at Boys Clubs of America and former Chairman of the Board of the Chautauqua Institution died in his summer home in Chautauqua, NY on Tuesday. He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Janet Stang Gibbs, his children Christopher and Nancy, and granddaugh
 KEATING-Dr. Raymond Francis. Of Washington, D.C. formerly of Yonkers, New York died at his home on April 1, 2002 at the age of 69. His presence was made known by his ''Zest for Life, Music, Song and Conversation.'' While a resident in Yonkers, he attended St. Casimir's Church and was a memb
 PHIPPS-Ogden. The Board of Trustees and employees of the New York Racing Association honor the memory of one of its founders and trustees emeritus. Mr. Phipps was a member and past chairman of The Jockey Club & a former chairman of Bessemer Securities Corporation. His famed black silks with
 STERNHEIM-Howard. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations joins in mourning the loss of our esteemed friend and supporter, Howard Sternheim. His passing is a great loss to his family and community. We extend condolences to his wife, Sharon, and family. Mortimer B
 WEINSTEIN-Joseph. In Tamarac, Florida on April 22, 2002. Dearly beloved husband of Norma and father to Dorothy Wolf (David) and Richard Weinstein (Sandi). Grandfather to Scott, Heather, and Jonathan, Alex and Casey. He was a devoted husband, a wonderful father and grandfather, and our hero.
 WEISSKOPF-Victor. It is with deep sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the death of Victor Weisskopf, distinguished physicist, gifted pianist, and President of the Academy from 1976-1979. A leader in the study of quantum mechanics and the structure of the atom, Viki 
 Victor F. Weisskopf, a nuclear physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project to build the first atomic bomb in World War II and later became an ardent advocate of arms control, died on Monday at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 93. Dr. Weisskopf was one of the first physicists to wa
 Wahoo McDaniel, who capitalized on his American Indian heritage as a football player and then a professional wrestler, died last Thursday at a hospital in Houston. He was 63. McDaniel was on the waiting list to receive a kidney when he died because of complications arising from rena
 Frank Moore, a painter and AIDS activist whose jewel-like allegories brought beauty and bite to themes of scientific progress, environmental pollution and the medical establishment, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan and Deposit, N.Y. The cau
 ATKINSON-Clinton J. Please join Clint's family in celebrating his life on Friday, May 10, at 4 PM, All Souls Church, Lexington at 80th St.       
 CHIAT-Jay. David C. Wiener and Company mourns the loss of a true friend and client. We extend our sincere sympathy to his family. We will always remember his ability to allow people to achieve their full potential, his generous nature and his wonderful sense of humor.       
 DUNCAN-Angus. The Council and members of Actors' Equity Association mourn the passing of Angus Duncan, who served his fellow actors and this Union as Executive Secretary for more than 20 years (1952-1972). His love of theatre and devotion to actors will long be remembered.       
 FERTIG-Felix C. Died unexpectedly on his 91st birthday, April 24th. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Hilda, cherished father of Ann and Mack, loving grandfather of Jessica, Sara, Eric and Amy, adored father-in-law of Robert and Lisa, caring brother-inlaw of Barbara and uncle of Glori
 FISCHER-Louis T. Of Yonkers on April 23, 2002, at the age of 89. Survived by his wife Edith, sons James and Stephen, and five grandchildren. Mr. Fischer was Senior V.P., and Media Director of Danzer, Fitzgerald, Sample Advertising Agency, where he was honored with several distinguished Adve
 GABRIEL-Janos G. Of Morristown, NJ on Thursday, April 25, 2002. Loving husband of Leah (nee Kinberg) Gabriel. Father of Beth Purcell; Julianna Gabriel; Leslie Gabriel; Jonathan Purcell; George Gabriel. He is also survived by his brother Andrew Gabriel. Funeral service will be held on Sunday
 HENDRIAN-Marshall Dexter, 74. Of Phippsburg, ME, formerly of Glen Ridge, NJ, died Wednesday, April 24. He graduated from Yale University and attended Wharton Business School. Spent his career in the family insurance business, now called Hendrian & Hendrian, in New York City, with father Ott
 Paul Georges, an American painter best known for his large-scale figurative allegories and satirical self-portraits, died on April 16 in Normandy, France, where he had a home. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said Andrew Kelly, the vice president of Salander-O'Reilly Galleri
 Col. William E. Barber, who won the Medal of Honor for his leadership of a vastly outnumbered company under siege on a snowy hilltop in one of the worst defeats in Marine history, the Battle of the Chosin Reservoir in 1950, died on April 19 at his home in Irvine, Calif. He was 82. T
 John Rohrbeck, who oversaw the television stations owned and operated by NBC from 1991 to 1997, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. He had bladder cancer, said Terry Kassel, a friend. From 1991 to 1997, Mr. Rohrbeck had the title of president o
 Dr. Oreste Piccioni, a combative and controversial pioneer in particle physics and one of the discoverers of the antineutron, died on April 13 at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 86. Dr. Piccioni gained renown for important theoretical work and for an experiment he conduct
 BERNSTEIN-Sidney, Dr. Died at 89 years of age on April 25, 2002, in Scarsdale, NY. Born in Brooklyn on May 28, 1912, to the late Samuel and Anna (Weisberg) Bernstein. Devoted and loving husband to Ethel; beloved father to Barry and Betsy Bernstein, and Richard A. and Amelia Bernstein. Adori
 FERTIG-Felix C. Died unexpectedly on his 91st birthday, April 24th. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Hilda, cherished father of Ann and Mack, loving grandfather of Jessica, Sara, Eric and Amy, adored father-in-law of Robert and Lisa, caring brother-inlaw of Barbara and uncle of Glori
 FREEMAN-Jack. Of New York and Sarasota, Florida, 94 years old, passed away on April 26, 2002. Devoted husband of Estelle Freeman and Edna Freeman. Beloved and adoring father of Merrill and Raymond Saperstein, grandfather of Richard, Robert and Lawrence Saperstein and great-grandfather of No
 HERMAN-John R., M.D. On April 22nd, 2002 in Washington, DC at the age of 86. Formerly of NYC and Hewlett, NY. Husband of the late Marion Seamon Herman. Survived by his three children, Thomas, Elizabeth and Susan, five grandchildren and his brother, George. Educated at Dartmouth College and 
 Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza, the Swiss industrial magnate who used his fabulous art collection to court fame and controversy, died yesterday in Spain. He was 81. Baron Thyssen suffered a heart attack early yesterday morning, the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid reporte
 ATKINSON-Clinton J. Please join Clint's family in celebrating his life on Friday, May 10, at 4 PM, All Souls Church, Lexington at 80th St.       
 BARTON-Donald. On April 24, 2002, in his home in Long Island. Age 76. Distinguished Broadway actor, critically acclaimed, widely loved, whose career included leading roles in ''Death Trap'', ''The Royal Family'', ''Middle Ages.'' A native Texan to whom success came early and spanned a lifet
 BERNSTEIN-Sidney, Dr. Died at 89 years of age on April 25, 2002, in Scarsdale, NY. Born in Brooklyn on May 28, 1912, to the late Samuel and Anna (Weisberg) Bernstein. Devoted and loving husband to Ethel; beloved father to Barry and Betsy Bernstein, and Richard A. and Amelia Bernstein. Adori
 BLAU-Bernard (Bernie), 86. Of Singer Island, FL, and New York City, died on April 21, after a brief illness in Florida. Bernie was a retired professor of English at Staten Island Community College and Hunter College. Survivors include his wife Rhoda, children Eileen, Kenneth and Donna, chil
 CHIAT-Jay. An amazing man, an inspirational mentor, a friend beyond compare. Jay was a life enhancing experience to everyone fortunate enough to know him. Phil 1:3 DeDe Dalton McMahon and Family       
 DRUSIN-Leon. Beloved husband of the late S. Rosalind. Father of Roberta Glick, Sherman and June Drusin, and Howard and Pat Drusin. Grandfather of Geoffrey, Dawn, Cami and Jessica. He died peacefully in his sleep on April 25th at the age of 93. We will miss his warm spirit, his kind heart an
 FERTIG-Felix C. Died unexpectedly on his 91st birthday, April 24th. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Hilda, cherished father of Ann and Mack, loving grandfather of Jessica, Sara, Eric and Amy, adored father-in-law of Robert and Lisa, caring brother-inlaw of Barbara and uncle of Glori
 FRANK-Philip J. Of New York, On April 25th. Phil is survived by his beloved wife Leylah, sons Robert, Gerard and David, their mother Shirley and his cherished grandchildren Nathan, Lindsey and Penelope. Phil graduated from West Point Military Academy and retired from the U.S. Army as brevet
 GETNICK-Irving M. Of Freeport, New York, passed away at the Jewish Home and Hospital in New York City on April 26, 2002. He was the loving and beloved husband of Zita, who passed away on April 30, 1993, after fifty-four years of marriage. Mr. Getnick completed his undergraduate education at
 HUNTER-Fergus Allister. Passed away April 13, 2002 at age 72 in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved brother of Brenna Brown & husband, Jeremy of Toronto, and adored uncle of Stephanie Karl and Jonathan. Danced with the National Ballet of Canada and in many CBC-TV shows in the 50's. Later was owner/manage
 PAYNE-Theodore M. (Ted). Died on April 21, 2002 at 52 years of age, a resident of Harding Township, N.J., and Oakey Point in Cundy's Harbor, Maine. An Investment Analyst with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, & a graduate of Mamaroneck High School, Wesleyan University and Harvard Busines
 SCHUYLER-Jack. Sculptor, age 90. Died peacefully at home April 17, 2002. Survived by his loving wife of 68 years, Rose. Beloved daughter Mara Kirsh, son Dr. Mark Schuyler of Albuquerque, NM, two grand-daughters Gwen and Erica, 2 great-granddaughters Schuyler and Kaitlyn.       
 MODELL-Michael S. On April 28, 2001, our precious, beloved son Michael lost his battle against Crohn's disease & cancer. On this, the anniversary of his death, the entire Modell family laments his tragic and untimely passing with profound sorrow. He was our talisman of hope, our wellspring 
 Aleksandr I. Lebed, a blunt-spoken Soviet paratroop commander who later played a crucial supporting role in the birth of Russian democracy, was killed today in a helicopter crash in far southern Siberia. Mr. Lebed, who had turned 52 last week, was governor of central Russia's sprawl
 Leonard Marx, a longtime developer and manager of commercial real estate properties throughout the United States and Canada, died on April 12 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 97. When he died, he was president of the Marx Realty and Improvement Company, based in Manhattan, whic
 Nathan Turk, who at 10 fell in love with the horse of Mendel the iceman on the Lower East Side and went on to own the Rocking Horse Ranch Resort -- one of the nation's largest dude ranches, with more than 100 horses -- died on the ranch in Highland, N.Y., on April 10. He was 72. The
 FERTIG-Felix C. Died unexpectedly on his 91st birthday, April 24th. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Hilda, cherished father of Ann and Mack, loving grandfather of Jessica, Sara, Eric and Amy, adored father-in-law of Robert and Lisa, caring brother-inlaw of Barbara and uncle of Glori
 FRANKLIN-Max. Of Stamford, CT, passed away at the age of 85, on April 27, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Florence. Devoted father of Marcia and Robert. Cherished grandfather of Lauren, David and Steven, and caring brother of Mildred Katz. He lived every day of his life with zest and enth
 SCHAPIRO-Harry. Of Merrick, LI, passed away April 27, 2002, in Lake Worth, FL. Loving husband of Ruth, to whom he was married for 53 years. Respected father of Marilyn (Lester) Epstein, Gail (James) Salk, Judy (Jerry) Dietz and Richard (Linda) Schapiro. Cherished grandfather of eight. Contr
 STERN-Gerald. 68, died on April 26, 2002, at his home in East Moriches. Beloved husband to the late Doris Stern. Devoted and loving father to sons Nelson and Andy, and daughter Teri Wilde. Doting and incredibly proud grandfather to Jeffrey, Matthew, Adam, Daniel, Jessica and Corey Stern, as
 Dr. Robert Edward Rothenberg, a surgeon and the author of more than a dozen popular medical books, died on April 10 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 93. Dr. Rothenberg retired in 1998 as director of surgical research at Cabrini. He previously was chief of surgery at th
 BERNSTEIN-Sidney. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sidney Bernstein. Mr. Bernstein's son, Richard A. Bernstein, is a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who is admired for his extraordinary generosity and commitment to Jewish and h
 BROUGHTON-John Gerard. Of Albany, New York, and Wellfleet, Massachusetts. Born October 16, 1914, and died April 19, 2002. Son of the late Judson Lee and Grace Johnson Broughton. Retired Associate Commissioner for Cultural Education within the N.Y. State Department of Education. Graduated fr
 BROWN-David. Former resident of Metuchen and Manalapan, NJ. Born on March 22nd, 1913. Died on April 28, 2002. Longtime employee of The State of New Jersey Department of Labor. Appreciated in death by his wife of 55 years, Adele, and survived by his companion, Anne Rosnow, children, Susan an
 CHIAT-Jay. The Board and staff of the New Museum remembers Jay, a friend and former trustee, as a passionate supporter of art, vision and ideas; a vivid personality and generous spirit. We extend our condolences to Edwina and his family. Lisa Phillips, Director Saul Dennison President, Boar
 CITRON-Casper. Died Jan. 1, 2002 at the age of 82 after 43 years of broadcasting nonstop. Legendary broadcaster and theatre critic, courageous political reformer, leader in the world of books, and generous mentor to many. His program became a cultural rendezvous for people in the arts. His 
 GAVASCI-Alberto Paolo. Known as a Renaissance man and artistic visionary died peacefully at home after a long illness on April 28, 2002. He was 81. Born and raised in the Bronx, he graduated from Stuyesant High School and then went on to receive a BA from Pratt Institute and MFA Diploma Bel
 KORN-Ruth. The leadership of Continuum Health Partners is saddened over the death of Ruth Korn, beloved mother of our dear friend and respected colleague, Brad Korn, Corporate Director of Community Affairs. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Brad and his family, to his father, Seymour, h
 McCLAVE-Scott. The law firm of Amster, Rothstein & Ebenstein is deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our associate and friend, Scott McClave. Scott's enthusiasm, intelligence and warmth will be sorely missed by his colleagues. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Jane Novatt and his ent
 PIKER-Myron ''Pike.'' 83. On April 26. Of New York City and West Cornwall, CT, formerly of Port Washington, NY. Survived by his wife, Joan; children Hilary Crosby (Kip) of El Cerrito, CA; Todd (Ivelisse) of Cornwall Bridge, CT; and Kim (Bob Kent) of Encinitas, CA., and five grandchildren: D
 SCHAPIRO-Harry. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member and extends heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Ruth and family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Alan Sussman, President Rabbi Charles A. Klein       
 THYSSEN - BORNEMISZA - Baron Hans Heinrich. His strong commitment to the preservation of the arts and humanities, which he demonstrated by sharing his collection through many museum and public exhibitions around the world, will be deeply missed, as will his warmth, enthusiasm and vision. An
 Rudolph de Harak, an influential designer whose many prominent projects included the timeline and typographic displays for the Egyptian Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the futuristic entryway for the quirkily embellished office building at 127 John Street in Lower Manhattan, died
