 Dr. William Joseph Sweeney 3d, a Manhattan gynecologist who took part in the early research on in-vitro fertilization, died on Oct. 23. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He died of a heart attack in his Manhattan office, where he was attending patients, his fa
 ASHBURN-Frank Davis. Age 94, of Westwood on October 2, 1997. Distinguished Headmaster Emeritus of Brooks School, N. Andover, Massachusetts. Beloved husband of Jean (Lang) Ashburn and the late Phyllis (Batcheller) Ashburn. Devoted father of the late Phyllis A. Kissel and Nancy A. Whitaker. H
 BECKER-Benjamin F. Of West Babylon, N.Y. on October 31, 1997. Past Vice President, International Freight, American Express. Former member N.Y.A.C. Loving husband of the late Grace. Survived by his niece Marcia Varon. Services were private. For further information call Whitting Funeral Home,
 CIPRUT-Solomon, MD. The entire family of Maimonides Medical Center expresses a profound sense of loss on the passing of Dr. Sol Ciprut. A member of our institution for nearly 40 years, his life was intertwined with Maimonides. Through the years, he was an intern, a chief resident, a past pr
 GLEICHER-Joseph W. On October 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Lillian. Father of Ellen, Hanalea Jane, Bert and Bonnie. Grandfather of Rick Joseph and Vicki, Joanne and Tom, Cathy and Victor, and Katarina Baila. Great grandfather of Anna Catherine. Services will be held on November 2, 1997, on 
 PEARCE-Henry, 89 years young. Loving Husband of Sally; Adoring Father of Dr. David and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig; Proud Grandfather of Jonathan and Laurie Rosensweig and Julie and Paul Schwartz. Founding partner of Pearce Mayer & Greer in 1928, devoted his career to Real Estate Philan
 PHILLIPS-Donald. On October 24. Beloved husband of Annette. Loving father of Wendy Dunn and Susan Phillips. He was the most generous of men. Memorial service to be held at Orchard Cove in Canton, Massachusetts at 11:00 A.M., Sunday, November 9.       
 WINSTON-Jay. On October 30, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Loving father of Linda and John,and father-in-law of Renate, grandfather of Claudia, Paul, Valerie, Hella and David. Great grandfather of Ruby Rose. Dear brother of Ruth Winston Frank. Interment private. Contributions in h
 Peter Savino, a longtime Mafia associate who became a major Government witness against his former confederates, including such top mobsters as the recently convicted Vincent Gigante, died on Sept. 30, Federal prosecutors said in a court document filed this week. Mr. Savino was 55, a
 Samuel Fuller, a director, screenwriter and producer who was widely viewed as the reigning virtuoso of low-budget films and was ranked by European critics as one of the best directors in the world, died on Thursday at his home in the Hollywood Hills. He was 85 and had homes in France and Ca
 Dr. Michael J. S. Dewar, a theoretical chemist whose predictions about the nature of unknown organic chemicals led to many drug advances, died on Oct. 10 at Columbia North Florida Regional Hospital in Gainesville, Fla., where he lived. He was 79. At the University of Texas, where he
 Luther G. Simjian, a prolific inventor who held patents on devices as diverse as the flight simulator, the self-focusing camera, the automated teller machine and the Teleprompter, died at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., on Oct. 23. He was 92. During an inventing career that spann
 AUERSWALD-Dr. E.H. (Dick), October 23, 1997, San Francisco, at age 71. Dr. Auerswald was a founder of the family therapy movement and the originator of the ecosystemic therapeutic paradigm. In his work, he developed family-centered, community-based, health delivery systems in New York and H
 BOICHIS-Hayim, M.D.. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a distinguished pediatrician and medical educator who was associated with our medical school for 35 years. A uniquely gifted teacher, Dr. Boichis influenced and inspired colleagues and g
 CERRUTI-Leo E. Died October 21, 1997. He will be remembered as an outstanding person and missed by all. Beloved by Deborah and his children, Leo E.Q. Cerruti and Nina C. Wolfe; son-in-law, Wade Wolfe; grandchildren, Ryan, Rachel, Sarah Wolfe.       
 CIPRUT-Solomon, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center is deeply saddened by the untimely death of Dr. Solomon Ciprut. Dr. Ciprut was associated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Department of Surgery for over 40 years. He was a staunch supporter of the Medical Staff and pl
 JACOBSON-Bert. His friends at Yeshiva University and colleagues in Public Relations mourn the untimely passing of our longtime Associate Director. He distinguished himself in a 35-year career at YU. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Lila; children; grandchildren, and the enti
 McCULLEN-Robert K., 78. Of Saddle River died on October 28, 1997. He was a graduate of both Columbia University and Columbia University Law School. Mr. McCullen was an employee of the Mendes & Mount Law firm where he had been a partner. Mr. McCullen was a navy veteran of World War II. Survi
 NELSON-William J., M.D. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of William J. Nelson, M.D., a former Director of Urology at Roosevelt Hospital, former President of the NYS Medical Society, and former President of the New York Section of the American Urol
 PEARCE-Henry, 89 years young. Loving Husband of Sally; Adoring Father of Dr. David and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig; Proud Grandfather of Jonathan and Laurie Rosensweig and Julie and Paul Schwartz. Founding partner of Pearce Mayer & Greer in 1928, devoted his career to Real Estate Philan
 PESKIN-Henry. A graduate of the Ethical Culture School, he earned his B.A. and M.D. from Columbia University. A Fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine, International College of Surgeons and the American Proctologic Society, he was affiliated with Beth Israel, Flower Fifth, Montefiore, B
 WASSERMAN-John M. On October 30, 1997. Beloved husband of 65 years of Miriam (Wertheimer) Wasserman. Devoted father of Ann Kiggen and Jane Ferrar, grandfather of Andrew, Carolyn, Linda, Derek and Jessica. Great grandfather of Aaron, Daniel, Peter, Jessica, Danielle, Michael and Quinn. Forme
 WINSTON-Jay. On October 30, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Loving father of Linda and John,and father-in-law of Renate, grandfather of Claudia, Paul, Valerie, Hella and David. Great grandfather of Ruby Rose. Dear brother of Ruth Winston Frank. Interment private. Contributions in h
 GIORDANO-Edward. November 2, 1996. Remembered and loved always by his friends.       
 Philip L. Defliese, the former chairman and managing partner of Coopers & Lybrand and a leading figure in the shaping of accounting standards, died on Oct. 27 in New York of respiratory failure. He was 82. As chairman of the 18-member Accounting Principles Board of the American Inst
 Dr. Benjamin W. Zweifach, a pioneer in the study of microcirculation, which involves small blood vessels, and in the field of bioengineering, died on Oct. 23 at Sharp Memorial Hospital in San Diego. He was 86 and lived in San Diego. The cause was complications after heart surgery, f
 James G. Gantsoudes, global head of the equity capital markets department at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company, died Oct. 17 at his home in Redding, Conn. He was 55. His family said the cause of death was cancer. Mr. Gantsoudes (pronounced GAN-sou-des) graduate
 COMNAS-George Demetrie. Of Bridgehampton, NY, passed away on November 1, 1997. Born in Vancouver, BC, on April 22, 1913. George was raised in Cuero, Texas, received his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Texas A&M University ('35); from 1936 to 1942 he served to Captain in the U.S. Army and 
 DEGEN-Abraham George. 66, passed away peacefully in his sleep, November 1, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sandra, loving brother of Ralph Degen and the late Jerry Degen. Loving stepfather of Susan and Brett. Devoted son-in-law, brother-in-law, cousin, uncle and dear friend. Presid
 DEWEY-David Evans. Died Novbember 1, 1997 at age 73. Survived by his sister, Dorothy Goodding of Friendswood, TX; a brother Robert Dewey of Sun Valley, CA; and a nephew Charles Goodding of Los Angeles, CA. Private funeral services will be held. Interment Walker Valley Cemetery, NY. Donation
 PEARCE-Henry, 89 years young. Loving Husband of Sally; Adoring Father of Dr. David and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig; Proud Grandfather of Jonathan and Laurie Rosensweig and Julie and Paul Schwartz. Founding partner of Pearce Mayer & Greer in 1928, devoted his career to Real Estate Philan
 TUOHY-Thomas F., Jr. Age 82, on November 1, 1997. Survived by his sisters, Marian Tuohy and Helen T. Ives; his nephew John J. Tuohy; nieces, Jane Tuohy Whelan and Anne Scriptunas. For funeral information call Frank E. Campbell at 212-288-3500.       
 WASSERMAN-John M. On October 30, 1997. Beloved husband of 65 years of Miriam (Wertheimer) Wasserman. Devoted father of Ann Kiggen and Jane Ferrar, grandfather of Andrew, Carolyn, Linda, Derek and Jessica. Great grandfather of Aaron, Daniel, Peter, Jessica, Danielle, Michael and Quinn. Forme
 WINSTON-Jay. The members of the City Athletic Club mourn the loss of its esteemed member, Jay Winston, and wish to express heartfelt sympathy to his family. The Board of Governors       
 Roy McMillan, one of baseball's smoothest-fielding shortstops of the 1950's with the Cincinnati Reds and later a New York Mets manager, died yesterday at Northeast Medical Center in Bonham, Tex. He was 68. McMillan collapsed at his home in Bonham earlier in the day, having apparentl
 Walter J. Kuron, a German-born choirmaster who made music his life and his World War I dogfighting days his legend, died Tuesday at a New Jersey nursing home the way he lived , listening to Bach. He was 102 and had not quite lived down the myth that he was the last man alive to have flown w
 Baron Edmond de Rothschild, the  French-born financier who was said to be the wealthiest of the surviving descendants of the legendary banking family, died in Geneva on Sunday. He was 71. The cause of death was emphysema, The Associated Press reported. Born in Paris in 1926 
 John Durniak, a former picture editor of The New York Times and of Time magazine, died yesterday at his home in Suffern, N.Y. He was 68. The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said. As picture editor of The Times from 1981 to 1984, Mr. Durniak oversaw the phot
 ACKERMAN-Rebecca. The Officers and Trustees of the Jewish Center of the Hamptons extend their deepest condolences to Leonard Ackerman, a devoted member of our Board of Trustees, and to his family on the death of his mother, Rebecca. David Gelfand, Rabbi Debra Stein-Davidson, Cantor Betty L.
 AGELOFF-Allan. Age 94. Real estate developer. On November 1, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Pauline, loving and devoted father of Ann and Sherman Tufel and the late Joelle Shankman. Precious Poppy of Scott, Dr. Andrew, Michael, Joanne, Seth and Tammy, and the late Mark. Dear brother of R
 BONDER-Rabbi David. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Born in 1906, he served as JWB Midwest Regional Director before making aliyah. In Israel, he served our movement as assistant director of the Center for Conservative Judaism in Jerusalem. We extend our heartfelt
 BRAUN-Lev, Ph.D. Beloved husband of Micheline and dear uncle of Chaia Bekefi. Also survived by grand-nephew Ariel Bekefi and grand-niece Tamara Bekefi. Dr. Braun was a retired Professor of Political Science at Fairleigh-Dickinson University and prior to that, during W.W. II, he was a broadc
 de ROTHSCHILD-Edmond. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem mourn the death of Baron Edmond de Rothschild, Founding Chairman of the Israel Museum's International Council. In addition to his enormous contributions to
 DEGEN-Abraham George, 66. Passed away peacefully in his sleep, on November 1, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sandra, loving brother of Ralph Degen and the late Jerry Degen. Loving stepfather of Susan and Brett. Devoted son-in-law, brotherin-law, cousin, uncle and dear friend. Pres
 FINE-David, 85, Died Sunday in Louisville, KY. He was a native of Brooklyn, New York and a retired executive at M. Fine and Sons Manufacturing Co. Survivors sons Martin L. and Allan H. of Louisville; brother Leo, N. Palm Beach, FL. Five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Funeral an
 GRANVILLE-SMITH-Walter, III, age 63, of Mollusk, Virginia, died November 1, 1997. The son of the late Walter and Jean GranvilleSmith, he was born in New York City on October 5th, 1934. He is survived by his wife, Pamela, his four sons, Richard, Stephen, David and Peter of Rowayton, CT., and
 KASINETZ-Zev, Rabbi. 95. One of the early organizers of Lubavitch in the United States. Later appointed by the Lubavitcher Rebbe to International Board of Agudas Chasidei Chabad-Lubavitch. Was interred Friday near Rebbe's Ohel. Husband of the late Ethel. Father of Moshe A. Kasinetz, Rabbi S
 LUBLINER-Rabbi Immanuel. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1960, he served the First Hebrew Congregation of Peekskill, NY and in 1964 assumed the pulpit of Greenburgh Hebrew Center in Dobbs Ferry, NY, becoming rabbi emeritus in 1977. We extend our heart
 MISHKIN-Joseph. A remarkable example of the ''old old,'' Joe was until his life's end at 98, full of vitality and intelligence, a generous and truly heroic spirit. He will be lovingly remembered by Charlotte, his children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren.       
 PEARCE-Henry, 89 years young. Loving Husband of Sally; Adoring Father of Dr. David and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig; Proud Grandfather of Jonathan and Laurie Rosensweig and Julie and Paul Schwartz. Founding partner of Pearce Mayer & Greer in 1928, devoted his career to Real Estate Philan
 PERGOLA-Charles A. In Trumbull, Connecticut, November 2, 1997. Former President of the Revlon, Beauty Care Group, New York and SmithKline Beecham Consumer Brands and senior executive for twenty-five years in the Health and Beauty Aids Industry. Friends may attend a Memorial Mass Wednesday, 
 TUNICK-Carl. October 31, at home. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle. Private burial. Please omit flowers TUNICK-Carl. ''The Tune.'' Our Champion. A man of courage and character. Admired for his strength and conviction. But above all, he was caring. He will be m
 Vladimir Sokoloff, a pianist on the faculty of the Curtis Institute of Music who accompanied many of the world's leading singers and instrumentalists, died on Oct. 27 at Allegheny University Health Systems Hahnemann Hospital in Philadelphia after a long illness. He was 84 and lived in Phila
 Charles Jordon, a leading publisher of Christian and inspirational literature, died on Thursday at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas. He was 52 and lived in Irving, Tex. The cause was liver failure, according to Word Publishing, of which he had been publisher and executive 
 Harold Friedman, a baker who rose to vice president of the teamsters' union and was convicted of labor racketeering, died on Wednesday at Meridia Hillcrest Hospital in Cleveland. He was 74 and lived in Pepper Pike, a suburb of Cleveland. The cause of death was heart disease, said hi
 Harrison Roth, who was known as an expert on the trading of options, a form of investment contract, died Sunday from cancer, his employer, Cowen & Company, said yesterday. He was 65. He was the senior options strategist at Cowen, a securities brokerage firm that he joined in 1989 af
 Herbert Cole Coombs, an economist who was governor of Australia's central bank for 20 years, advised seven Prime Ministers and was one of Australia's most influential public servants, died on Oct. 29 in a Sydney nursing home. He was 91. A farmhand's son born near Perth, Western Aust
 BOODMAN - Julius, of Long Beach, New York on November 3, 1997. Born December 25, 1908 in Brooklyn, New York. A retired retailer. Died of heart failure, after a long, honorable, productive and fruitful life. Survived by his wife Helen of 64 years, a son Richard, of New York City and Long Bea
 CORTELL-Harry, 90, died on Friday, October 31, 1997. He was a designer of fine jewelry. He was predeceased by his wife, Gertrude Garr Cortell. He will be missed by family members Marc Cortell, Lindarose, Richard, Alison, and Daniel Berkley. A celebration of his life was observed privately. 
 de ROTHSCHILD-Edmond. The leadership and staff of Israel Bonds mourn the death of Baron Edmond de Rothschild, a longtime and generous supporter of Israel's economic development. His warmth, leadership and great contributions to Israel and the world Jewish community will be sorely missed. Ou
 DEGEN-Abraham George. We mourn the loss of our dear friend. He was everything a friend could ever be. Devoted and loving, he stood by his friends and helped them through the ups and downs of life. His words and sage advice will never die, nor will the results of his many acts of kindness. W
 DeROSE-Mark D., 43. Died peacefully at home on September 15, 1997 after a long and courageous struggle with lymphoma. Teacher, social worker, nurse, clinical systems analyst and avid cyclist who lived life to the fullest. Former Area Coordinator of Manhattan Special Olympics, Co-Chairperson
 FIEDEL-Ivan. Co-Founder of the Fiedel School on Long Island. Died on November 2 in Santa Barbara, CA. after a long illness. He is surived by his beloved wife Rosalind, his children Gina (and Douglas) and Brad (and Ann), a brother Barry and his wife Kathy, two grandchildren, Alixandra and Zo
 GILBERT-Jack. Beloved husband of Lillian, devoted father of Barbara Gilbert Stein, Larry and Barbara Gilbert, devoted brother of Milton and Harold, adored grandfather of Jacqueline, Danielle, David, and Alyssa. Services Wednesday 10 A.M. at The Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Statio
 GREENE-Martin. Beloved husband of Vera. Devoted father of Michael and Phyllis, Norman and Loren. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan, Erica, Daniel, Alison and Rebecca. Great-grandfather of Adi and Gabriell. Services Wednesday, 2 PM, at The Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad St., Mt. Ve
 GREENFIELD-Naomi. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the sister of our esteemed member, Alan Sohn, and extends to him and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 HESS-Jacques J. The Members of the Board of Trustees of the Horace Mann School extend our heartfelt sympathy to Michael Hess, our Chairman, and his family, on the death of his adored father, Jacques Hess. Marjorie Silverman, Vice-Chairman William Aaron, Treasurer Franklin Speyer, Secretary 
 LEWITZ-Richard, on November 3. Beloved husband of Nancy Lipshitz. Devoted son of Belle Lewitz. Caring brother of Charles Lewitz and Karen Lewitz. Loving uncle of Andrew Schall and Daniel Lewitz. Son-in-law of Harold and Pearl Lipshitz. Brother-in-law of Jay Schall, Marsha Lipshitz, Shel You
 MODDEL-Hazzan Philip. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of a respected colleague of over four decades. Quietly and gently, he served the spiritual needs of his congregants here in his adopted land as well as in Germany with great dignity, warmth and care. We extend our sy
 NEFF-Walter S. Born Philadelphia 1910. Educated in Central High School in Philadelphia. BA and MA degrees from University of Pennsylvania. PhD from Cornell University. Assistant Professor University of Maine and City College of New York in the 1930's. Second Lt. US Army Medical Corp during 
 PEARCE-Henry. The Board and staff of the Joint Passover Association offer heartfelt condolences to the family of Henry Pearce and most especially to his wife, Sally, who has been for many years a devoted and tireless supporter of our efforts on behalf of needy Jewish families at Passover. M
 ROBERTS-John J., 79, Bradenton, Florida, died November 1, 1997. Survived by his wife, Marjorie; sons, Jeffrey of Peterborough, NH and Steven of Loudonville, NY; a sister, Marian Lippett of Santa Anna, CA and 4 grandchildren.       
 ROSENBERG-Joseph H. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Monday, November 3, 1997. He will be missed. Services will be held Wednesday, November 5, 11am, at Gutterman - Warheit Memorial Chapel, Boca Raton, FL
 ROTH-Harrison. Harry was a dear friend for more than 30 years. I already miss his wit and wisdom. Sincere condolences to his daughter Jessica and family. Martin Askowitz       
 SCORDATO-Frances. The Board of Directors and staff of United Cerebral Palsy of Queens express deepest sympathy to their Board member, Emil A. Scordato on the loss of his wife Frances. Jack Weinstein, Pres. Charlie Houston, Exec. Dir.       
 TORRE-Gabriel E. Passed away November 2, 1997 in Salt Lake City at the age of 90. He was born May 11, 1907 to Joseph and Rose Vaccaro Torregrossa in Greenwich Village, New York City. At the time of his death he was married to Blanche B. Johnston. They had recently moved from New York City t
 TUNICK-Carl. October 31, at home. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle. Private burial. Please omit flowers TUNICK-Carl. A guiding light, loyal, discreet, fair, a warm and caring friend, a gentleman. Truly a decent human being. Many of us were lucky enough to have
 TUOHY-Thomas F., Jr., age 82, on November 1, 1997. Survived by his sisters Marian Tuohy and Helen T. Ives, his nephew John J. Tuohy and nieces Jane Tuohy Whelan and Anne Scriptunas. Funeral mass at Most Holy Trinity Church, 57 Buell Lane, East Hampton, Thursday 11AM with burial to follow at
 WASSERMAN-John. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, John Wasserman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Miriam and to the entire family. William Ettelson, President Michael Roth, Secretary       
 Irving Schneider, a theater producer and general manager, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 and also had a home in Quogue, N.Y. Mr. Schneider began his career in the mid-1930's as an office boy for the producer Sam H. Harris. He went on to become assistant stage m
 DASKALOPOULOS-George. Beloved husband of Potoula. Loving father of Joan Selby. Grandfather of Alexis, Theodore and George. A dear and generous friend to many; he will be missed. Reposing Basis Funeral Home, Inc., 27-12 23rd Avenue, Astoria, NY, Thursday 10AM-12 Noon. Service to follow. In l
 GREENBERG-Paul. On November 4, 1997 in Albany, NY. Husband of Esther Novogrodsky Greenberg. Father of Benjamin Greenberg of Sommerville, MA, Francine Greenberg Reizen of Chicago, IL and Jessica Greenberg Dennis of Thousand Oaks, CA. Grandfather of Shira Belle Dennis, Jonah Chaim Dennis and 
 MEYER-Schuyler Merritt, Jr., 79, on November 4, at home in Dover Plains, after a long illness from cancer. Philanthropist, foundation leader, founder of the George Bird Grinnell Indian Children's Fund, Board Member of State Council on Waterway, Volunteer Skipper of New York State Erie Canal
 MITCHELL-Leo. Age 76, after bravely fighting a long illness. Beloved husband of Claire. Cherished father of Judy, Gene, Gerry and Matt. Loving grandfather of Madeleine and Andrew. Devoted brother of Faye Bacal. Founder and owner of Command Electronics in Farmingdale, NY. His adoring family 
 PESKIN-Henry, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins the physicians and staff of the Department of Surgery in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and former colleague, Henry Peskin, M.D., a member of the Beth Israel family for more than fifty years
 RAUSCHMAN-Alfred J. Furlong, PA, formerly of Warren, NJ. November 5, 1997 after a long illness. Survived by his wife, Ardith (nee Orlinger); two daughters, Alix and Amy Rauschman. Memorial mass at Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Church, 235 East State St., Doylestown, PA on Saturday, November 8 at 1
 ROSS-Etta. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend their heartfelt sympathy to its Chairman of the Board, Alfred W. Levy on the passing of his sister Etta. Condolences are extended to the entire family. Joseph Gurwin, President Herbert 
 ROTH-Harrison. Harry was a friend and a client from day one. His keen understanding of the options market and his assistance in enhancing our product will be sorely missed. Condolences to his family and to his friends. Barry Hertz, President Track Data Corporation       
 ROWES-Bernard. On November 3, 1997. My father, a self-made man under the tutelage of Tevel Kaleko, rose from the obscurity of an orphan to great prominence in the diamond industry. In love for 56 years with his wife Emily, he doted on his son, grandchildren and cared for his friends as fami
 RYAN-William J. On November 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Kathleen Healey Ryan. Devoted father of Tom and Cathy Ryan, Mary and Gerry Bambrick, Kathleen Ryan and Richard Ayoub, Eileen and Chris Moran, William M. Ryan and Patrick and Kristen Ryan. Loving grandfather of James, Tricia, Chris, She
 TUNICK-Carl. Sincerest condolences to the family of our respected Carl Tunick. It was our honor to have known him these many years. 425 Park Avenue Company Milton A. Horowitz, Gen'l Partner       
 WINSTON-Jay. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Jay Winston. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Donald Stein, President Howard Jacobs, Secretary       
 Phil Soto, a one-time television repairman who became an inspiration to a generation of Hispanic politicians in California when he broke through decades of prejudice to become one of the first two Hispanic members of the State legislature since the 19th century, died on Tuesday at his home 
 Ralph Burton Rogers, a former chairman of the Public Broadcasting Service who helped defend the organization against attacks by President  Richard M. Nixon in the 1970's, died  on Tuesday at his home in Dallas. He was 87. Mr. Rogers, who was also an influential businessman and phila
 Robert M. Bleiberg, who retired in 1991 after long service as editor, publisher and editorial director of Barron's, the weekly business and financial newspaper, died Monday at New York Hospital. The cause of death was leukemia, according to Dow Jones & Company, which publishes Barron's and 
 H. Richard Hornberger, a surgeon who wrote the novel ''M*A*S*H,'' the inspiration for the film and long-running television series of the same name, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Portland, Me. He was 73. The cause was leukemia, said his son William. Dr. Hornberger spent mo
 Sir Isaiah Berlin, the philosopher and historian of ideas, revered for his intellect and cherished for his wit and his gift for friendship, died of a heart attack following a long illness Wednesday evening in Oxford, England. He was 88. A staunch advocate of pluralism in a century i
 EVEREST-Philip J., 90, the former Chairman of Transportation Displays, Inc. of New York City died November 5, 1997 in Naples, FL. Survived by his wife, Evelyn, a daughter Beverly E. Shaw of Chicago, IL, 5 grandchildren and 6 great grandchildren. Memorial Service Saturday, November 8th, 3PM 
 HIGGINS-Thomas E. On November 5, 1997, in Montgomery, AL. Survived by his daughter, Barbara Carter. Mass of Christian Burial Monday, 10 a.m., St. Catherine of Siena R.C. Church, 411 E. 68 St.       
 LEJBZON-Olek. A veritable lion of a man. He survived five years of concentration camps, and came to America to build a successful business and a full and fruitful life. He will be missed by all those who loved him. He is survived by his wife, Sahimi, and his daughter, Robin. Services 10 AM,
 LEVY-Milton. Loving husband, father and grandfather. Survived by wife Fran, sons Jeffrey and Stuart, grandchildren Matthew, Caryn and Millie. He will be greatly missed. Services Friday, 10 AM at I.J. Morris Inc, 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn.       
 LITTLE-John Watson, II. On November 1, 1997 at Southampton after a brief but valiant struggle with lung cancer. Class of 1940 Dartmouth. He participated in initial assaults in WWII in Sicily and Omaha Beach and was an agent in the U.S. Army Counter Intelligence Corps. A poet and writer, Jac
 McLAUGHLIN-James P. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and philanthropist passed away peacefully in his home in San Antonio, Texas on Sunday morning, November 2, 1997. He is survived by his wife of nearly 55 years, Genevieve and seven children, Mary Caruso, Dorothy Petell, Jean McLaughlin
 MEYER-Schuyler. In loving memory of our gentle and gracious friend, a true ''honorary member'' of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd. We treasure his friendship and remember his generous support of our work. Both at Good Shepherd Services and Center for Family Life, Schuyler has left a rich l
 PASTORE-Emil M. Died November 5, 1997 in Fla. at age 91. Born in Italy, September 26, 1906 he immigrated to Waterbury, CT in 1912. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Amherst College in 1928 and received his masters in history in 1929. His career was at the New York Telephone Company and AT&T,
 REIS-Rabbi Paul S. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, age 50. After ordination, he served as director of the Hillel Foundations at W. Virginia University and North Carolina, as rabbi and educator in Pittsburgh, and since 1983 as rabbi of Congregation Beth Israel in 
 SHAW-Robert S. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Robert S. Shaw, a member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Victor D. Ziminsky, Jr., Pres. Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 SHAW-Robert Stuart, 64, a retired executive of Chase Bank, died on Tuesday, November 4, 1997 in West Palm Beach, FL, where he resided. Mr. Shaw was born in New Rochelle, NY, the youngest son of Leo N. and Marie Heffernan Shaw. Mr. Shaw graduated from Amherst College in 1955 and later served
 SINCOFF-Milton. On Monday, November 3, 1997, of North Caldwell, NJ. Surviving are his children, Eric and Meredith from his marriage to the late, beloved wife Donna (nee Blis), and a son, Jeffrey, from his previous marriage, and a sister, Lenore. Funeral services conducted from the Menorah C
 THEODORE-Ion. The Horace Mann School community expresses deep sorrow at the death of its beloved former Head of the Arts Department. He was a multitalented man-sculptor, athlete, philosopher, historian, thespian, naturalist-above all, he was a gentleman and a gentle man, a teacher and colle
 TUNICK-Carl. The Trustees of the Painting Industry Insurance Fund mourn the death of Carl Tunick. His wise counsel and sound judge ment will endure and for that we are forever in his debt. Sandy Vagelatos, Co-Chair J. Brendan Murray, Co-Chair TUNICK-Carl. Founding partner, mentor, c
 TURNER-William Heyward Homer, noted corporate philanthropist, founder and Executive Vice President of the U.S. Steel Foundation, died recently in Stamford, Connecticut. He was 93. A native of Atlanta, Dr. Turner will be buried in Atlanta on Monday, November 10. He is survived by his wife Ve
 Victor Mills, who led an engineering team that invented the first mass-market disposable diaper and changed the way millions of parents attend to infants, died on Saturday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 100 years old. In 35 years as a chemical engineer for the Procter & Gamble 
 Edmond N. Moriarty Jr. of Bernardsville, N.J., a senior executive of Merrill Lynch & Company, died Oct. 26 at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, a family spokeswoman said. In 43 years with the big Wall Street firm, Mr. Mo
 Maxwell Heiman, a former Connecticut trial lawyer, past president of the state bar and a judge of the Connecticut Appellate Court for the last seven years, died on Wednesday at Hartford Hospital. He was 65 and lived in Newington, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Michael G. Pugliese, a composer, conductor and percussionist, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 41. The cause was a stroke, according to his father, Michael. Mr. Pugliese toured with the musical ensemble of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, the composer John 
 Michael von Clemm, an investment banker who used a lifelong interest in anthropology to help pioneer the global Eurobond market, died on Thursday at his family home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 62. The cause was a brain tumor, his son-in-law, William Iselin, said. Mr. von Clem
 CONNOLLY-Kevin Joseph, 63, husband of Elizabeth Fraser Connolly, of Fairfield, CT., died Thursday, November 6, 1997, in Bridgeport, CT. Born in NYC, Mr. Connolly was a graduate of Fordham University and the Bernard Baruch School of Business. He was a former resident of Shrewsbury, NJ prior 
 LEFCOURT-Michael. Died on November 6th, 1997. Adoring husband of Carol Blumenson Lefcourt. Devoted father of Jill Lander and Peter and Jack Lefcourt. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Allison, Scott and Nancy. Art Director at Dell Publishing until his retirement in 1988 to Boca Raton, FL. 
 MARTIN-Daniel, age 89. On November 6, 1997. Beloved husband of Elizabeth. Devoted father of Robert and David, and loving grandfather of Julie, Erik, Allison and Anne. Service Sunday 11AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St. Contributions may be made to the Alzheimer's Associa
 ROSANOFF-Nathan, 69. Of Coral Springs, Florida, formerly of New York, New York, passed away Wednesday, November 5, 1997. Beloved husband of Olga; loving father of Frayne, Wilfred and Captain Leonard Rosanoff and his wife Melissa; dear brother of Gloria, Evelyn and Minnie. Services will be h
 TIERNEY-Michael P. November 5, 1997, of Rutherford, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Mary Tierney (nee Wiegmann), loving father of Thomas, Rosemary, Joseph and Elizabeth, dear brother of Daniel. Visitation Sunday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, the Diffily Funeral Home, 41 Ames Avenue, Rutherford. Funeral M
 TUNICK-Carl. A tower of strength, source of security, humor, honor and love. He leaves a void that can never be filled. We'll cherish his memory always. Our condolences to Hilary, Justin and Zachary. Lovingly, Max and Barbara Gersh       
 Sidney Darlington, a Bell Labs mathematician who pioneered the design of electronic circuits and whose formulas helped launch rockets 300 times without error, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Exeter, N.H. He was 91. At Bell Labs, in Murray Hill, N.J., where he headed the mathematics r
 Adam Kennedy, a novelist, actor and artist, died on Oct. 16 at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kennedy was the author of 20 novels and 10 screenplays, including ''The Domino Principle'' (1975), which he also adapted for t
 Howard Schulman, a labor lawyer and a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for two terms, died Oct. 23 at Sharon Hospital in Sharon, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Millbrook, N.Y., and Boca Raton, Fla. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. A
 ALBRECHT-Arthur J. A recognized leader in developing marketing strategies and advertising for nationally-known consumer products, died from Lymphoma on October 14, 1997 at Boca Raton Community Hospital in FL. He was 66. Mr. Albrecht's reputation was such that when he authored a marketing pl
 DeGRAFF-Erwin. On October 8, age 88, at his home in Hague, NY. Retired 1971 after long career at McGraw-Hill: Regional VP of Advertising Sales, including Business Week; Publisher Petroleum Week. B.A. in English, N.Y.U. 1935. Lt. U.S. Navy, WWII. Survived by wife of 58 years, Billie (Marangh
 HYMAN-Sydney. At age 63, on November 7, 1997. Loving husband of Arlene. Adored father of Deborah and Mark, Laura and Jim. Caring stepfather of Dana and Michael, David and Jessica. Devoted grandfather of Jamie, Rian, Tyler, Trevor, Emma and Jared. Funeral services Monday, November 10 at Wien
 LEWIN-Wladislaw. Died November 6, 1997, aged 96. A courageous, devoted physician. He is survived by his wife Lotte, stepchildren, grandchildren, great-grandaughter, sister Lisa Parode and niece Claudia. Services Sunday, 12 PM at the Schwartz Brothers Jeffer Memorial Chapel, Queens Boulevard
 MORSS-Wells. 80, former Commodore of the Eastern Yacht Club, in Marblehead, MA. Died Thursday at St. Andrews Hospital in Boothbay Harbor, ME. He was born December 4, 1916 in Boston, MA, the son of Henry A. and Edith Sherman Morss. He graduated from the Fessenden School in Newton, MA, St. Ge
 NELSON-Dr. William James. On October 25, 1997 at his home in Damariscotta, Maine. Born in Brooklyn, NY, December 2, 1922, the son of William S. and Edna (McKenna) Nelson. Graduate of Poly Prep Secondary School, class of 1941, earned his B.A. Degree from Williams College, and his medical deg
 OST-Warren W., Rev. On November 6, 1997. Survived by his wife, Nancy and daughter, Laura. Services at Madison Ave. Presbyterian Church, Madison Ave. at 73rd St., Thursday, November 13 at 11 AM. Memorial gifts may be made to A Christian Ministry in the National Parks or to the above church. 
 ROWES-Bernard. An orphan, he achieved legendary success in the diamond industry. He produced a physician son and Ph.D daughter in a fifty-six year marriage of love to Emily. He was shrewd, aggressive and devoted to his aunts, uncles and cousins who raised him. A life well lived.       
 WROBEL-Sidney. Loving husband, devoted father, adoring grandfather and great grandfather. On October 18. He will be missed forever.       
 CAPALDO-Louis A. Passed away November 1970. His spirit and love lives on and is ever with me. Beloved wife, Susan Capaldo       
 NOVIK-Morris S. To my brother who will always be in my heart. He was my best friend and I sorely miss him. Mary P.       
 STEVENSON-John Reese. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, November 19, 1997, at 4 PM, Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Ave, NYC. Donations in his memory may be sent to the Community Hospice of Forth Worth, TX, or to a charity of your choice.       
 Sam Hairston, who spent more than 50 years as a professional baseball player, scout and coach but played in the major leagues just long enough to qualify for an asterisk, died on Oct. 31 at a nursing home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 77 and the first American-born black player on the Chicago 
 William Heyward Homer Turner, former executive director of the United States Steel Corporation's foundation and an early developer of corporate philanthropy, died on Oct. 30 at St. Joseph Medical Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 93 and a resident of Stamford. Mr. Turner joined the U
 Albert M. Baer, a cutlery manufacturer and a supporter of heart research, died on Oct. 26 at his home in Rapidan, Va. He was 92 and also kept a residence in lower Manhattan, a family home for five generations. At his death, Mr. Baer was chairman of the Imperial Schrade Corporation o
 Frank J. Graziano, a former chairman and chief executive of the Crompton & Knowles Corporation, died Oct. 27 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 79. The cause of death was multiple myeloma, a form of bone-marrow cancer, a family spokesman said. Mr. 
 J. Edward Corn, an arts manager and administrator, died on Oct. 16 at St. Joseph's Hospital in St. Paul, Minn. He was 64 and lived in Sunfish Lake, Minn. The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said. Mr. Corn was born in St. Louis, and after graduating from Yal
 Leon Forrest, a writer who explored black American history in his richly complex, epic novels, died on Thursday at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 60 and lived in Evanston. The cause was cancer, said his agent, Faith Childs. Mr. Forrest, who had taught African-Ame
 DUTTON-Ben Joseph. On November 8, 1997, in New York. Gentle and loving husband of Pauline Kasmedor. Inspirational and devoted father of Deborah and Pamela. Cherished grandfather of Alexandra and Sebastian. Twin brother of Chester. His proud bearing, absolute goodness, generosity of spirit a
 HENDERSON-Peter, Jr. Died after a long illness on November 7. Survived by his wife Anne, and three children Aline, Vinton Bauer and Peter III, and one grandchild. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to St. Bernard's School Scholarship Fund, 4 East 98th St. NY, NY 10128.       
 KRAUS-Harry A. Died November 8, 1997, born August 11, 1936 in New York City, NY. Was a resident of New York City and Elizaville, NY. Mr. Kraus distinguished himself as a leader in the field of Direct Marketing at Modular Direct and most recently as President of Horah Direct in NYC, NY. Mr. 
 RATTINER-A. Alan. Of Montauk, NY, and Pompano Beach, FL, on November 8, 1997, at the age of 86. Beloved husband of Jeanette, loving father of Daniel and Nancy, cherished grandfather of Maya, Adam, David and Gabriel, Andrew and Eric. Services Monday, 11 AM, at the Jewish Center of the Hampto
 TIERNEY-Michael P. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel are profoundly saddened by the untimely passing of Michael P. Tierney, our partner and friend of over twenty-five years. Our deepest sympathy goes out to his wife, Mary; his four children, Thomas, R
 Prospero DeBona, a lawyer, member and past president of the Monmouth County Board of Taxation and one of the first members of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, died on Oct. 22 at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Red Bank. The cause was resp
 Kricker James, the producing director of the Chain Lightning Theater in Manhattan, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause was kidney cancer, said his wife, Claire Higgins. Mr. James and Ms. Higgins founded the Chain Lightning Theater in SoHo in 1991. T
 Max Waldgeir, a former administrator of social services in New York City, died on Oct. 30 at Northridge Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Formerly of Douglaston, Queens, he was 80 and lived in Boca Raton. The cause was complications from bypass surgery, his family said. Mr. 
 The Rev. Osborne E. Scott, one of the first black chaplains in the Army, who later created some of the earliest college courses in urban and ethnic studies, died on Nov. 2 at Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81 and a Mount Vernon, N.Y., resident for the
 DALTON-Martin T. November 8, 1997. 28 years old. Beloved son of Thomas and Anne Dalton. Loved by all who knew him. Taken from us much too soon. We will always cherish him. He will be missed. Reposing McManus Funeral Home, Flatbush and Flatlands Avenues, Brooklyn, NY. Visiting Tuesday from 2
 GILLEN-Rev. Francis W. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the parochial vicar of Our Lady of Guadalupe Church, 7201 15th Ave., Brooklyn, November 9. Reposing in Our Lady of Guadalupe Chapel, Tuesday, Nov. 11, 2-5 and 7-9:30 P.M. and Wednesday, November 12, 2-5 P.M. Mass of Trans
 JAFFEE-Eugene Victor. On Nov. 10, 1997. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of David; dear father-in-law of Barbara Brooks. Loving grandfather of Isadora. Services on Wednesday, 12:15 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations may be made in his memory to t
 KRAUS-Harry A. Died November 8, 1997, born August 11, 1936 in New York City, N.Y. Was a resident of New York City and Elizaville, NY. Mr. Kraus distinguished himself as a leader in the field of Direct Marketing at Modular Direct and most recently as President of Horah Direct in NYC, NY. Mr.
 METZGER-Richard. On November 7, 1997, of New Rochelle, NY, formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Husband of Helene (nee Schoenfeld) Metzger. Father of Thomas Metzger and Carol Vanecek. Brother of Elizabeth Stough. Also survived by five grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Funeral services were h
 MONT-Jeffrey B. On November 9, after a long and courageous battle against AIDS. Through it all, Jeff never gave up or lost his spirit. To the very end, he was alert and grateful for the friends in his life. We remember Jeff for his work on Broadway and love of the theatre and his devotion t
 PAINE-Stephen D. The Board of Trustees and staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our beloved patron and founding member of the Museum's Drawing Acquisition Committee, Stephen D. Paine. He will be warmly remembered for his steadfast support of Ame
 PETERS-Harold. The Board of Directors of Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System, Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, and Saint Agnes Hospital extend their deepest sympathy to our President and CEO, Gary S. Horan, his wife, Arlene, and their entire family as they mourn the death of Mrs. Horan's b
 POPLACK-Rabbi Kenneth David. On November 9, 1997. Survived by loving family and a multitude of friends and respected colleagues. Funeral services were held yesterday at ''Gutterman's,'' Woodbury, L.I. Shiva is being observed at the family residence, 52 Sullivan Drive, West Orange, New Jerse
 SCHAEDEL-Robert H., 91. Of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL., formerly of South Orange, NJ, passed away November 9, 1997. He was born June 16, 1906, in Newark, NJ. He is survived by his wife, the former Doris Ahern; his sons Peter A. Schaedel and Robert W. Schaedel; his sister Helen Roellke; five gran
 von CLEMM-Michael. The Officers, Directors and staff of the ESU of the United States wish to extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Michael von Clemm, Vice Chairman and past President. It was through his perseverance that we face the realities of modern day not-for-profit governance
 Dr. Samuel Gurin, a biochemist who was the only dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania who did not hold a medical degree, died on Oct. 22 at the Pine Run Village retirement home in Doylestown, Pa. He was 92. He was on the faculty of the medical school for 3
 Frank P. Bibas, an Academy Award-winning producer and director, died on Oct. 16 at a hospice in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 80. Mr. Bibas won an Oscar in 1961 for ''Project Hope,'' a documentary about the voyages of an American hospital ship, the Hope, which brought medical help and tra
 Meyer Berger, a self-made businessman, philanthropist and national fund-raiser for the Democratic Party, died on Saturday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 85. He had been in failing health for six years and had suffered a series of strokes, his family said. Mr. Berger, know
 BAKER-William Thompson. Died November 8, 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife, the former Elizabeth Baird; a daughter, Barbara Phyfe Baker; a son, William Thompson Baker, Jr. and three grandchildren; Alice Whetherly Baker, Richard Cass Baker and Heather Thompson Baker. Donations in his 
 CULBERSON-Earl, 40, on October 13 of a heart attack. A master photographer, his memory will live on in his images and our hearts.       
 EDER-Barbara. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University sadly notes the passing of Barbara Eder, wife of Dr. Howard A. Eder, professor emeritus of medicine who has been one of our medical school's leading lights for over 40 years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to h
 GOULD-Nathan. Nathan Gould was a true humanitarian. During his 40-year tenure as executive director of Women's American ORT, he formulated the concept of ORT as a movement in Jewish life. He built this organization from a small group to a major national Jewish women's organization. He educa
 HIRSH-Emanuel. After a lengthy, devastating illness. Beloved husband of Rose for 70 years. Devoted father of Sara H. Cohen and Jules Hirsh. Loving grandfather and great-grandfather. Shivah at his home through Monday, November 17, his 93rd birthday.       
 JACOBY-Dr. John III. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Medical Staff, Hospital Auxiliary, and Administration of St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Born on August 17, 1957, ''Jack'' was an attending physician
 KOHLER-Gary. Temple Israel of Lawrence, New York mourns the death of the beloved son of our members, Edythe and Harold Kohler and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President       
 LEJBZON-Olek. WSIS sorrowfully mourns the passing of Mr. Olek Lejbzon, our longtime and devoted member. May his memory be a blessing for all. Moshe Meir Morduchowitz, Rabbi Richard Wigler, President       
 MOOS-Seymour. Congregation Orach Chaim mourns the loss of a true son of Orach Chaim whose love, devotion and years of service are immeasurable and unforgettable. A memorial service at his beloved Orach Chaim will be held in the near future. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi Wolf Scheck, Presid
 OST-Warren W., Rev. On November 6, 1997. Survived by his wife, Nancy and daughter, Laura. Services at Madison Ave. Presbyterian Church, Madison Ave. at 73rd St., Thursday, November 13 at 11 AM. Memorial gifts may be made to A Christian Ministry in the National Parks or to the above church. 
 PAINE-Stephen D. The Sterling and Francine Clarke Art Institute in Wiliamstown, MA., mourns the passing of our beloved friend Stephen D. Paine, a trustee since 1981. He immeasurably shaped and directed the Institute through his dedicated and active involvement. His wise counsel and passion 
 RIEDER-Al. The Faculty, Administration and Board of Directors of Manhattan Day School/Yeshiva Ohr Torah record with profound sorrow the passing of Al Rieder, father of Denise Karasick, the wife of our president, George Karasick and grandfather of current and former students Yael, Tami, Shim
 ROSS-Bernard Charles. On November 10, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Estelle Ross. A kind and loving man who savored life until the end, he is survived by his children, Jane and Gerry Siegel and Larry and Lynn Ross. Donations can be sent to the Daughter of Israel in West Orange, N.J. Mou
 SCHWARTZ-Ruben. November 10, 1997. Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston. Beloved husband of Yvonne, devoted father of Thomas, Mountain View, CA., Victoria Rudolph, Bryn Mawr, PA., Charlotte Rosenberg, Huntington, NY, dear father-in-law of Alan Rudolph and Robert Rosenberg, cherished grandfa
 WEINGARTEN - Michael, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of our parent corporation Greater Metropolitan Health Systems, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend, colleague and benefactor Michael Weingarten, M.D., who was affiliate
 WOODS-Charles. Veteran ABC New York staff announcer and early radio personality, died on November 10, 1997. He was a founder and the first Director of the AFTRA-Broadcasting and Recording Industry Council on Alcoholism (ABRICA). A memorial service will be held on Saturday, November 15, at 1
 Schuyler Merritt Meyer Jr., a retired entrepreneur and longtime head of the Edwin Gould Foundation for Children, died Nov. 4 at his home in Dover Plains, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was cancer, the foundation reported. At his death Mr. Meyer was chairman and projects officer o
 The Rev. Dr. Bob Jones Jr., the chancellor and board chairman of Bob Jones University in Greenville, S.C., who in the late 1970's forfeited his college's Federal tax exemption rather than permit students of different races to date or marry, died yesterday at his home in Greenville.  He was 
 GOULD-Nathan, 84. November 10th, 1997. Child of a close-knit immigrant family. Rebel youth and revolutionary in Chicago and then New York in the 1920's and 1930's. Organizer, eloquent orator, and lover of poetry. Courageous soldier, seriously wounded in Merrill's Marauders, W.W. II. Visiona
 GREANEY-Patrick J., age 58, of Wyckoff, New Jersey, died on Tuesday, Nov. 11, 1997. President and Chief Operating Officer of NY-based Cellular Vision USA, former Senior Vice President and member of the Executive Management Committee with Philips Electronics North America Corporation where h
 JACOBY-John Z. III, M.D. On November 9, 1997, at age forty. We mourn with overwhelming sadness the untimely passing of our beloved friend and most esteemed colleague. As Medical Advisor for over a decade to the Young Adult Program of the Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York Dr. J
 MEYER-Schuyler. Audrey Cohen College and its Board of Trustees sadly note the passing of Schuyler Meyer, a man with an extraordinary sense of justice, who devoted himself to making a difference in the world. In recognition of his outstanding achievements, the college awarded him both its Cr
 NORTH-Edward S. On November 11, 1997, of Kings Point, NY. Adored husband of Patricia and loving father of Candice and Cassandra. The devoted and loving family of Ruth Drucker-Nancy, Howard, Chad and Randi StoneSteven, Gail, David and Megan Drucker-mourn the passing of Edward and deeply embr
 PAINE-Stephen D. The Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Wiliamstown, MA., mourns the passing of our beloved friend Stephen D. Paine, a trustee since 1981. He immeasurably shaped and directed the Institute through his dedicated and active involvement. His wise counsel and passion f
 RUSH-Max. On November 12, 1997, in Flushing, Queens. Beloved husband of the late Miriam, cherished father of Ira and Steven and father-in-law of Carol, devoted grandfather of Dara & Jacqueline. He gave of himself generously to his family, his friends, and his neighbors. Funeral services at 
 SCHWARTZ-Ruben. November 10, 1997. Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston. Beloved husband of Yvonne, devoted father of Thomas, Mountain View, CA., Victoria Rudolph, Bryn Mawr, PA., Charlotte Rosenberg, Huntington, NY, dear father-in-law of Alan Rudolph and Robert Rosenberg, cherished grandfa
 SURINACH-Carlos. On November 12, 1997, 82, of New Haven, CT., formerly of Miami, FL., and New York. The officers and executives of BMI mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Carlos Surinach. Carlos was a distinguished Composer and Conductor who won particular acclaim for his music
 TUNICK-Carl. In memory of our dear Buzzy. He will always be the greatest and we will always love him. Chip, Lisa and Caroline Rieger       
 Rod Milburn, one of track and field's greatest high hurdlers and a gold medalist in the 110-meter hurdles at the 1972 Munich Olympics, was found dead on Tuesday night, submerged in a liquid-chemical tank at a Georgia Pacific paper plant in Port Hudson, La. He was 47. Milburn, who ha
 James Laughlin, the fiercely independent publisher, editor and poet, who, as the founder and longtime head of New Directions, published many of the most consequential and revolutionary writers of his time, died Wednesday on the way to Sharon Hospital from his home in Norfolk, Conn. He was 8
 KADE-Milton. Beloved husband of Estelle, loving father of Iana Davis, Daryl Schoenbach and Paul. Cherished brother of Sam Kade, Fay Choleff and Norma Kade. Funeral service today, 1pm, Sinai Chapels 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows. KADE-Milton. Passed away November 13
 PAINE-Stephen D. The Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Wiliamstown, MA., mourns the passing of our beloved friend Stephen D. Paine, a trustee since 1981. He immeasurably shaped and directed the Institute through his dedicated and active involvement. His wise counsel and passion f
 POURFARROKH. On November 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Arleen West and dear brother of Ali. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81 Street, on Saturday at 9 A.M. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the charity of your choice.       
 STERN-Orrin S., M.D. Died on Tuesday, November 11 in Boca Raton, FL. He was born in 1937. He trained in general surgery at Berkshire Medical Center and NYU Medical Center in plastic surgery. He was the beloved husband of Jeffrie. Father of Rachel, Rebecca, and Jamie. Grandfather of Samantha
 WEAVER-John G. On November 6th, at age 82. After Wittenberg University he started as a sportswriter, and following service in World War II he held marketing positions at Procter & Gamble, Swift & Co., Crosley and Benton & Bowles. Later he was Communications Director for the U.S. Committee f
 Stephen D. Paine, an art collector and museum benefactor, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was respiratory failure due to post-polio syndrome, his wife, Susan Woods Paine, said. Mr. Paine, an inve
 William Matthews, a poet who was praised for his personal voice and who won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1996, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 55. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said his companion, Celia Bellinger. Mr. Matthews, a pr
 Carlos Surinach, an American composer of Spanish birth who drew freely on the rhythmic and melodic conventions of flamenco in his works, died on Wednesday at his home in New Haven. He was 82. Although Mr. Surinach composed prolifically for orchestra, chorus, chamber ensembles and vo
 Eddie Arcaro, the master of thoroughbred racing for 31 years as America's premier jockey, who five times won the Kentucky Derby and twice swept the Triple Crown, died yesterday at his home in Miami. He was 81. Arcaro died after a long illness, according to his wife, Vera. Fo
 Gen. Leon William Johnson of the Air Force, who won the Medal of Honor for leading a daring low-level raid in the all-out air assault that throttled enemy fuel supplies from Romania's vast oil fields in 1943, died on Monday at the Belvoir Woods health care center in Fairfax, Va. He was 93 a
 HOCKNEY-Donald J., Ph.D. The Board of Trustees, President David C. Chang, the faculty, alumni and students of Polytechnic University mourn the passing of their colleague Donald J. Hockney, professor of computer science and humanities. During his 21 years at the University, Dr. Hockney was a
 MATTHEWS - William. Faculty and students of the English Department and Creative Writing Program join The City College in mourning the loss of our distinguished friend and colleague and in sending our heartfelt condolences to his family. Wry and passionate poet, lover of jazz, opera, Horace 
 OST-Warren W. The Officers, members of the Board, Staff and Alumni of ''A Christian Ministry in the National Parks,'' mourn the loss of its founder and Director. For 45 years, he gave superb pastoral leadership to this unique ministry, to the employees, staff, and visitors of our National P
 ROSENBLUM-Irwin Jack. On November 13, 1997, at age 73. Devoted husband of fifty-one years of Rhoda, loving father of Alice Loubaton, Henry and Rita, caring father-in-law of Dr. Sam Loubaton, adoring grandfather of Emily and Jeremy Loubaton, dear uncle, cousin, and friend; musician extraordi
 ROTHKRUG-Leonard F. 3/22/2811/15/96. Lovingly remembered by his family.       
 Big Nick Nicholas, a tenor saxophonist and singer who played with some of the greatest musicians of postwar jazz, died on Oct. 29 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Queens. He was 75 and lived in Queens. The cause was heart failure, said Pastor Dale Lind, pastor to jazz musicians at St. Pe
 Cecil F. Poole, the first black United States Attorney outside a United States territory and the first black Federal judge in Northern California, has died in Kentfield, Calif. He was 83. Judge Poole died on Wednesday of complications from pneumonia, said the United States Court of 
 BATIUCHOK-William, M.D. On November 14, 1997. Born May 26, 1920. Beloved and devoted husband of Margaret. Loving father of John and his wife Louisa, Margaret and Susan. Devoted grandfather of Daniel and Beth. Graduate of Columbia College '41, Cornell University Medical College '44, Emeritus
 FLAHERTY-Robert. The Board and staff of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society mourn the loss of their Honorary Life Director. A loyal and devoted colleague of the Society, ''Bud'' Flaherty had been an active member of the National Board since 1980 until his retirement last year. His commi
 GOLD-Harry. Beloved husband of Hattie. Loving father of Laura and Jerome (Suzanne) Gold and special Poppy to Sandee and Amanda. A loving person to all who knew him. He will be sorely missed. Graveside services Monday, 1 PM, at Mount Hebron Cemetery.       
 KANE-Robert S. Suddenly on November 10, 1997. Age 72 at his home in NYC. Renowned journalist and author of 25 travel guide books. Survived by Dr. Max Drechsler. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 KOBRINETZ-Morris. On October 25, 1997. Husband of the late Belle (nee Nusbaum). Father of Chaplain General Simeon and Beverly, Rita and Irwin Bassett. Grandfather of five; great-grandfather of seven. We will miss him.       
 KOVACS-Rudolf. The Board of Directors and Members of the Israel Center of Hillcrest Manor, mourn the passing of their esteemed past president, Mr. Rudolf Kovacs. Beloved husband of Herta, devoted father of Michael and Allan, he is also survived by his brother Julius and sister Ella, and gra
 LEVINE-Esther Quint. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center extends sincere condolences to Jack Levine, MD, our esteemed Chairman Emeritus of the Department of Orthopedics, on the loss of his beloved wife. Edwin L. Sch
 NAGLE-Joseph F., 89. Of Franklin Lakes, NJ, Nov. 9, 1997. Beloved husband of Lorraine (nee Negri) and loving father of Patricia Morrissey. Also survived by son-in-law Kenneth Morrissey. Adoring grandfather of six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren. He is entombed at the Madonna Ceme
 PESKIN-Henry, MD. Physician and surgeon. Devoted to his patients, his profession, and his family. A brilliant man who will always serve as a role model to his daughter Ellen Burgher, of Pleasantville, NY, and granddaughter Karin, of Toronto. Adored by all who knew him. We miss you, Pop.    
 ROFF-Rabbi Dr. Paltiel. We regretfully announce the passing of our beloved Rabbi, Dr. Paltiel Roff, on Thursday, November 13, 1997. He is survived by his wife, Barbara, daughter Naomi Roff; mother Beatrice Roff, brother Kenneth (Sandra) Roff and niece Felicia Roff. Services will be held on 
 SCHWARTZ-Ruben. Friend, confidant, wise counselor. He will be greatly missed by all whose lives he touched. Evelyn and Arthur Glasser       
 STANLEY-Robert. New York, NY. November 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Marylin. Beloved stepfather of Perry Brandston and Lori Brandston-Greene. Also survived by four grandchildren and many admiring friends, students and collectors of his paintings. Services 11 AM, Monday, at Frank E. Campbell
 WILSON-Walter Barron Wilton. Of NYC. His family mourns the loss on November 14 of a devoted father, doting grandfather, brother and uncle. Born in New York, educated at Trinity College and the Fletcher School of Foreign Diplomacy at Tufts, served in the U.S. Navy. Foreign Service aide, inve
 STEVENSON-John Reese. A memorial service will be held Wed. November 19, 1997, 4 PM, Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Ave., NYC. Donations in his memory may be made to the Community Hospice of Fort Worth, TX, or to the Columbia School of Law for the Research and Study of Law i
 Douglas MacArthur 2d, a diplomat who was Ambassador to Japan from 1957 to 1961, a period when relations between Tokyo and Washington were put on a new footing of equality after 15 years of Japanese subordination, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 88 an
 Georges Marchais, whose rigid leadership of the French Communist Party from 1972 to 1994 was blamed for reducing it to the margins of French political life, died yesterday in Paris. He was 77. He had suffered a long history of heart disease and was admitted a week before he died to 
 Michael Patrick Tierney, a Manhattan lawyer who specialized in international antitrust and insurance matters and whose pro bono work put him in the front lines of the anti-abortion movement, died on Nov. 5 at Kennedy International Airport. He collapsed at the airport after arriving from Sin
 BATIUCHOK-William, M.D. On November 14, 1997. Born May 26, 1920. Beloved and devoted husband of Margaret. Loving father of John and his wife Louisa, Margaret and Susan. Devoted grandfather of Daniel and Beth. Graduate of Columbia College '41, Cornell University Medical College '44, Emeritus
 GETZELS-George. November 11, 1997. Adored by wife Blanche, his children and grandchildren. Remembrance at home November 22 and 23 from noon on.       
 GOLD-Harry. Beloved husband of Hattie. Loving father of Laura and Jerome (Suzanne) Gold and special Poppy to Sandee and Amanda. A loving person to all who knew him. He will be sorely missed. Graveside services Monday, 1 PM, at Mount Hebron Cemetery.       
 NAPOLI-Nate (Natale). May 21, 1910-November 15, 1997. Living is what he loved. Giving is what he did. Love is what he got. He had no complaints as he traveled the highway of life taking us along with him. It was a great trip for those of us who really knew him. A part of us is gone, yet a p
 NUNES-Donald. Died in Bath, England, on Tuesday, November 11, after courageous battle with cancer. Son of Kenneth and Helen Nunes, husband of Ann Biddick Nunes, father of Becky and Jonathan. Don was inspirational, much loved and irreplaceable. A celebration of his life will take place in La
 SIEGFRIED-Charles A. Of Madison, NJ, also of Bloomfield and West Hartford, CT, on Friday, November 14, 1997. Husband of the late Marjorie (nee Young) Siegfried. Father of David C. Siegfried of Short Hills, NJ, and Susan Cerciello of West Hartford, CT. Brother of Elsie Siegfried of Orwigsbur
 STEVENSON-John Reese. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, November 19, 1997, at 4 PM, Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Avenue, New York City. Donations in his memory may be made to the Community Hospice of Fort Worth, TX., or to the Columbia School of Law for the Re
 The Rev. Warren William Ost, who made his ministry among those who travel, live or work in the national parks, died on Nov. 6 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was heart failure, his family said in reporting his death last week. Mr. Ost started 
 Georgie Tapps, a tap soloist and Broadway musical dancer, died on Nov. 1 at St. Joseph's Center Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Los Angeles. In Mr. Tapps's heyday, in the 1930's and 40's, he performed in nightclubs and cabarets, in films that included ''Vogues of 
 BABETCH-Alex. On November 7. As a group of close friends for fifty years, we mourn his passing, recall his many kindnesses and will miss his companionship.       
 BATIUCHOK-William, M.D. The Medical Staff Society of The N.Y. Hospital Medical Center of Queens, grieves the loss of its distinguished colleague and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family. Marvin A. Leder MD, President Talat Addasi MD, Vice President and Gabriele F. De Angelis MD, Sec
 BAUM-Richard. Nov. 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Valerie Greenly. Devoted father of Garrison Mathew and Elizabeth. Loving brother of Vicki and brother-in-law Steven Roth. Dear uncle of Tracey and cousin of Charles Finder. Services Thursday, 11 AM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.
 BERKOWITZ-Jack. Beloved husband of Clara. Devoted father of Judith and Susan and Robert Koweek. Loving grandfather of Sharon, Jeffrey and Lynne, and Andrea. Donations in his memory to United Cerebral Palsy-Nassau County, 380 Washington Avenue, Roosevelt, New York 11575.       
 CAREVELLO-Hanna Hahn. The trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum extend heartfelt condolences to the family of Hanna Hahn Carevello, sister of Dr. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor of The Jewish Theological Seminary of America. Our thoughts are with him and his family as they mourn this sad loss.
 FELDMAN-Herbert. Beloved husband of Miriam. Devoted father of Madeleine, Amy, Peter, Sharon, Leslie and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Harrison, Spencer, Courtney, James, Jillian, William, Dana, Sandy, Joshua and Kimberly. Brother of Milton. Services ''Boulevard - Riverside'', 1450 Broad
 GURLAND-Haim. Beloved husband of Estelle for 55 years. Devoted father of Judith and Robert, father-in-law of Warren Blaker and Gaby Jordan. Adored grandfather of Avram, Lauren and Emily. Loyal brother, uncle and friend. After a valiant struggle with cancer in his 93rd year. Services Tuesday
 HABERMAN-Maurice. Beloved husband of Eve. Proud father of Jeffrey and Mitchell. Adoring grandfather of Stephanie, David, Jordan, Joshua and Alex. Loving brother of Paul Haberman and Barbara Carter. Funeral services Wednesday, November 19th, 12 noon, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th 
 KAPULER-William P., M.D. The officers and members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourn the loss of their honored teacher, esteemed colleague, and cherished friend. We express our deepest sympathy to his family. KAPULER-William, M.D. The NYU Psychoanalytic Institute mo
 NAPOLI-Nate (Natale). May 21, 1910-November 15, 1997. Living is what he loved. Giving is what he did. Love is what he got. He had no complaints as he traveled the highway of life taking us along with him. It was a great trip for those of us who really knew him. A part of us is gone, yet a p
 NUNES-Donald. Died in Bath, England, on Tuesday, November 11, after courageous battle with cancer. Son of Kenneth and Helen Nunes, husband of Ann Biddick Nunes, father of Becky and Jonathan. Don was inspirational, much loved and irreplaceable. A celebration of his life will take place in La
 ROSENBERG-Charles. Elected President Emeritus, after serving as President of the Institute for 15 years, he served with honor and distinction as Board Member and officer for more than 30 years. His leadership was all inclusive, as he led by example, the members of the Board and staff. He le
 SHAW-Michael G. Of New York, FL. and Fair Harbor. November 17th. Beloved husband of Vivian (Cantor) Shaw. Devoted father of Andrea Shaw-Resnick and Steven Shaw. Loving grandfather of Joshua and Zachary Resnick. Brother of the late Ann Rubin and uncle of Howard and Alan Rubin. Mr. Shaw was e
 TOGURI-David Megumi. Peacefully at his Toronto home on Saturday, November 15, 1997, after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved brother of Samuel, Etsuko, Makiko and husband Roy, James and wife Elsie, Grace and husband Edward, Allan and wife Emilie, and Miki. David was much loved by his 
 STEVENSON-John Reese. A memorial service will be held on Wed, November 19, 1997, at 4 PM, Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Avenue, New York City. Donations in his memory may be made to the Community Hospice of Fort Worth, Texas, or to the Columbia School of Law for the Resear
 Ron Tindiglia, a television news consultant who had earlier been the general manager of WCBS-TV and the news director of WABC-TV, both in New York, died on Nov. 10 at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 51 and lived in Harrison, N.Y. His wife, Misti, said the cause was lung
 Russ Meyer, a right-handed pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies' pennant-winning Whiz Kids of 1950 and the Brooklyn Dodgers' World Series champions of 1955, who was notorious for hot-tempered displays, died Sunday in Oglesby, Ill. He was 74. He had suffered from congestive heart fa
 Stefan Lorant, a Hungarian-born editor and author who cut a serendipitous swath through the 20th century while pioneering modern photojournalism, died on Friday at a hospital in Rochester, Minn. He was 96 and lived in Lenox, Mass. Mr. Lorant was credited with developing the model fo
 David Ignatow, whose clear, direct, seemingly effortless verse won him one of poetry's highest honors, the Bollingen Prize, in 1977, died on Monday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 83. He had been suffering from congestive heart failure, said a friend, Virginia Terris.      
 Floyd Mallory Shumway, a New Haven historian and a former professor at Columbia University, died last Wednesday at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 80 and lived in New Haven. The cause was cancer, his family said. A past executive director of the New Haven Colon
 BERKOWITZ-Jack. It is with deepest sorrow that the United Cerebral Palsy Association of Nassau County, Inc. (UCP Nassau) records the passing of Jack Berkowitz, a founder of the organization and esteemed board member. Mr. Berkowitz was active with the Spastics Society of Long Island, the pre
 FISCHMAN-Sandor. The Westchester Day School family extends sincere sympathy to our esteemed Principal, Stanley Fischman, on the loss of his beloved father, Sandor Fischman. May the entire Fischman family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Elimelech Gottlieb, Headma
 HABERMAN-Maurice. Beloved husband of Eve. Proud father of Jeffrey and Mitchell. Adoring grandfather of Stephanie, David, Jordan, Joshua and Alex. Loving brother of Paul Haberman and Barbara Carter. Funeral services Wednesday, November 19th, 12 noon, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th 
 HAGEDORN-Charles. 79, on Nov. 17, 1997, beloved husband of the late Jane, devoted father of Christopher, cherished grandfather of Christopher and James. At Charles' request a private family service was held. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date. Donations in his memory can be mad
 HIGGINS-Edward M. Survived by his wife Margaret (Canny); sister Rita Tiedemann; children Edward, Clare, Ellen and Daniel; and grandchildren. Hours: Wednesday 2-4 and 7-9 PM, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. Funeral Mass: Sacred Heart Church, Thursday 10 A.M. Interment Gate of 
 INDOVINO-Peter K. in his 28th year, of Syracuse and Brooklyn, NY on November 15 in Washington, D.C. in a tragic accident. Energetic, vivacious, inspirational M.B.A. student at Syracuse University. Beloved son of Louis and Joan (nee Alice). Loving brother of Lisa Indovino Ottens and Jay. Dea
 KLAPPER-Murray, of New York City and Boca Raton, FL, died November 17, 1997. Loving husband and companion of Connie Klapper. A wonderful father to Janis Kerbs of Mattituck, NY, and Steven Klapper of Madison, WI. Former owner of Oxford Neckwear of NYC. Will be remembered for his wit, charm a
 LIEBERMAN-Nathan, Nov. 18, 1997, 86 years young, after a severe short illness, of Deerfield Beach, FL., formerly of New Rochelle, NY. A partner in Academy Hardware of N.Y.C. before retiring to FL. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice. Loving father of Barry (Lenore), Lynn (Michael), and Ron
 LORANT-Stefan. The brilliant and legendary life of the pioneer editor of photographic publications ended at age 96. His influence on the century's development of visual communications remains inestimable. We all owe him a great debt. Willis Hartshorn Cornell Capa Int'l Center of Photography
 NUNES-Donald. Died in Bath, England, on Tuesday, November 11, after courageous battle with cancer. Son of Kenneth and Helen Nunes, husband of Ann Biddick Nunes, father of Becky and Jonathan. Don was inspirational, much loved and irreplaceable. A celebration of his life will take place in La
 PEZENIK-Alfred Joel, Esq. In his 80th year. Dearly beloved husband of Dorothy. Dear uncle of David and Steven of New York, and Lisa and Wendy World of Toronto. Loving brother-in-law of Phyllis Pezenik of Old Westbury and Sanford World of Toronto. Friend to many. Funeral service Thursday, 12
 PORTNOY-Louis David, on November 16, 1997. Beloved husband of Sara Portnoy. Dear father of Sharon Siegel, Robert Portnoy and Susan Portnoy. Loving grandfather of Jessica Siegel, Leah Beth and Michael Portnoy. He will be greatly missed.       
 SARDOS-James on November 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Rita DeCarlo Sardos. Also survived by his father, George Sardos, his brother Christopher and sister-in-law Carol; sister-in-law Catherine White and brother-in-law Larry White; nieces and nephews George, John, June, Nancy, Lauren and Caro
 Robert S. Kane, a travel writer and creator of the ''A to Z'' and ''World at Its Best'' series of guides, died on Nov. 10 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said Dr. Max Drechsler, his companion. Mr. Kane's guides were u
 Saul Chaplin, an Academy Award-winning songwriter, producer, musical director and vocal arranger who worked on more than 60 Hollywood films, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85. The cause was injuries sustained from a fall, said his wife, Betty.
 Arthur Eric Gropp, a champion of closer United States-Latin American ties and a former library director for the Organization of American States, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Greenbelt, Md. He was 94. Mr. Gropp led the Columbus Memorial Library at O.A.S. headquarters in Washington f
 Jim Kepner, an early gay rights advocate who preserved the movement's history even as he helped to write it, died on Saturday at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles. He was about 74 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Kepner never knew his exact age. He was told by his adoptive parents that he
 DRUCKMAN-David. November 18, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Charlotte (Kaufman). Loving father of James and Nancy. Adoring grandfather of Charlotte and John. Devoted brother of Beatrice Preefer and Frances White. Visiting Thursday 7-9 P.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. 
 ENTMACHER-Paul Sidney, M.D. We note with sorrow the passing of a highly respected colleague, a physician whose career in medicine was marked by devotion and sensitivity. A long-term consultant to North Shore's Medical Staff, he will be remembered for his analytic mind and caring nature. Our
 FASTENBERG-Vera. The Board and Staff of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, deeply mourn the passing of Vera Fastenberg beloved sister of Arnold Forster, a longtime, generous supporter and Board member of AABGU. We extend sincere and heartfelt condolences to the Fas
 GOLDSTEIN-Sol. November 19, 1997. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Anita, Barry and his wife, Suzanne. Dear brother of Harry. Adored grandfather of Jeffrey, Mindy, Jill, Sharon and Beth. Great-grandfather of Carly and Liza. Devoted brother-in-law of Barbara and Evelyn. Cherished
 GURLAND-Haim. Beloved husband of Estelle for 55 years. Devoted father of Judith and Robert, father-in-law of Warren Blaker and Gaby Jordan. Adored grandfather of Avram, Lauren and Emily. Loyal brother, uncle and friend. After a valiant struggle with cancer in his 93rd year. Services were he
 HAGEDORN-Charles, 79, on November 17, 1997, beloved husband of the late Jane, devoted father of Christopher, cherished grandfather of Christopher and James. At Charles' request a private family service was held. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date. Donations in his memory can be
 HARRIS-Michael A. Age 47, of Jersey City, N.J. Died November 17. Manager of Jersey City Best Western Inn. Survivors include his mother Regina A. Richards HarrisSchaefer and sister Valerie (Theodore) Hoca. Calling 7-9 Thursday at H.E. Turner Funeral Home of Batavia, N.Y. where services will 
 INDOVINO-Peter K. in his 28th year, of Syracuse and Brooklyn, NY on November 15 in Washington, D.C. in a tragic accident. Energetic, vivacious, inspirational M.B.A. student at Syracuse University. Beloved son of Louis and Joan (nee Alice). Loving brother of Lisa Indovino Ottens and Jay. Dea
 KAPULER-William, M.D. The Officers and Members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute express their profound sorrow at the death of their respected and beloved colleague and member, Dr. William Kapuler. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife, Sylvia, and family. Lester S
 PRINCIPE-Thomas. The management and staff of North Bay Cadillac, Hempstead Jaguar and North Shore Infiniti mourn the death of their friend and colleague Thomas Principe. Tom brought a rich automotive heritage with him when he joined our firm over 15 years ago. His dedication to his customer
 RUBIN-Leonard. Age 70. Beloved husband of Sondra. Devoted father of Alan and Brenda Rubin and Howard and Lisa Rubin and a cherished grandfather. Shiva will be observed until Tuesday morning at 34 White Drive N. in Cedarhurst, New York. RUBIN-Leonard. We are deeply saddened by the lo
 SUCHY-Frederick. The Board of the Mount Sinai Children's Center Foundation extends its deepest sympathies to our Board Member and Chairman, Department of Pediatrics at Mount Sinai, Doctor Frederick J. Suchy, Jr. upon the death of his beloved father, Frederick Suchy. Please know that you are
 Edwin Mansfield, a leading scholar of the economics of technological change, died on Monday at his home in Wallingford, Pa. He was 67. He died of cancer, according to a spokeswoman for W. W. Norton & Company, publisher of his economics textbooks, which were used by millions of colle
 Eli A. Finn, whose vigor and wry views of a 100-year swath of the modern era earned him a measure of fame in his later years, died on Saturday at his home in Norwalk, Conn., at the age of 107. He died of natural causes, said Joe Singer, the manager of Collins Funeral Home in Norwalk
 BOOKBINDER - George Harry. With profound sorrow, we announce that George Harry Bookbinder passed away peacefully at his home in New York City on November 10, following a protracted illness. Interment took place at the Wooster Cemetery in Danbury Connecticut on Wednesday, November 12. He is 
 BROIDY-Gerald. Beloved husband of Sue Broidy of Santa Barbara, died on November 19 of cancer after a long illness. He is survived by his daughter Ellen and her life partner Joan Ariel of Irvine, CA, his stepchildren Christian Greenfield and his wife Laura of Santa Barbara and Sophie Greenfi
 DRUCKMAN-David. On Nov. 18, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Charlotte (Kaufman). Loving father of James and Nancy. Adoring grandfather of Charlotte and John. Devoted brother of Beatrice Preefer and Frances White. Service Friday, 9:30 A.M., at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 East 87 St, NYC. Con
 FASTENBERG-Vera. The National Commission and staff of the Anti-Defamation League mourn the passing of Vera Fastenberg, beloved sister of our General Counsel, Arnold Forster. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Arnold and his family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Je
 GARBETT-Spencer, 27 years old. Survived by his parents Irene Sperber and Marshall Garbett. He was an actor and television host in Los Angeles and New York. Memorial Service 5 P.M., on Friday, November 21, 1997 at Church of the Hills, Forest Lawn, Hollywood Hills. In lieu of flowers, donatio
 GERGES-William T. On Saturday, November 15, 1997, in his 91st year. A resident of Coler Memorial Hospital, Roosevelt Island, NY, formerly of Elmhurst, NY. Veteran, WW II, Pacific Campaign. Devoted brother of the late Viola Gerges. Reposing at the Shaffer Funeral Home, Little Neck, NY. Visit
 GREENSPAN-Dr. Frank P. Of Charlotte, NC, died on Tuesday, November 18, 1997. He is survived by his wife, Sylvia Koffler Greenspan; a son, Gary H. Greenspan, M.D; and two grandsons, Daniel and David Greenspan.       
 HAGEDORN-Charles, 79, on November 17, 1997, beloved husband of the late Jane, devoted father of Christopher, cherished grandfather of Christopher and James. At Charles' request a private family service was held. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date. Donations in his memory can be
 KING-Jonathan. Honorary AIA, Professor Emeritus of Architecture, died of cancer at age 71 at his home in Houston, TX., November 19, 1997. Born in NYC, graduated Columbia College 1949. Best known for his work in building systems as Vice President and Treasurer of Ford Foundation's Educationa
 KREMENTZ-Robert Middleton, formerly of New Vernon, NJ, died November 15, 1997, at Hilton Head Island, S.C. He retired in 1974 as Chairman of Krementz & Co in Newark, NJ. He was a member of the New York Yacht Club and the Cruising Club of America. A memorial service will be held at First Pre
 NOLAN-Bishop John Gavin, S.T.D. On November 19, 1997. Auxiliary Bishop of Archdiocese for the Military Services USA, Chaplain, NY Athletic Club for 20 years and former Secretary General Catholic Near East Welfare Association. Survived by brother Michael of Schuylerville, NY, sister Kathleen
 UGHINI-Imo. Died peacefully on November 18, 1997. Calling hours at the Giove Funeral Home, 640 Middle Country Road, Middle Island, Long Island, on Saturday and Sunday from 2-4 and 7-10 P.M. Religious service Sunday 3 P.M. at funeral home. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his
 Robert Palmer, a music critic, historian, musician and producer, died yesterday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 52 and had lived in New Orleans. The cause was complications from liver disease, said Claire Palermo Flower, a spokeswoman for the medica
 Robert Stanley, a painter who translated newspaper photographs and other commercial imagery into gritty works on canvas, died on Saturday in Manhattan on his way to Beekman Hospital. He was 65. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Stanley was born in Yonkers, N.Y., in 
 Grayson Louis Kirk, the scholarly president of Columbia University whose ill-fated decision in the spring of 1968 to turn 1,000 police officers in riot gear against student protesters became an emblem of the generational conflict characterizing the Vietnam War era, died early yesterday morn
 Dr. Norman H. Topping, who helped to develop the typhus vaccine and went on to lead the University of Southern California's transformation into a prominent research center, died on Tuesday. He was 89. Dr. Topping was president of the university from 1958 to 1970 and chancellor from 
 HAGEDORN-Charles, 79, on November 17, 1997, beloved husband of the late Jane, devoted father of Christopher, cherished grandfather of Christopher and James. At Charles' request a private family service was held. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date. Donations in his memory can be
 HUSTING-Eugene E. (Gene). Of Locust Valley, Long Island, died peacefully on November 20, 1997. Retired Vice President of the First National Bank of Boston, early aviation and antique car historian. Survived by his wife, Betty, and daughters Hillary C. Vander Stucken and Alison H. Zetterquis
 NOLAN-Bishop John Gavin, S.T.D. On November 19, 1997. Auxiliary Bishop of Archdiocese for the Military Services USA, Chaplain, NY Athletic Club for 20 years and former Secretary General Catholic Near East Welfare Association. Survived by brother Michael of Schuylerville, NY, sister Kathleen
 RUDY-Robert Paul. On Thursday, November 20, 1997. In his 83rd year. After a long and valiant battle with cancer. Beloved husband for fifty-six years of Joan Price Rudy. Loving father of John and Janice and the late Richard. Adoring grandfather of Hilary, Brett and Kerri. Devoted brother of 
 SUTTON-Joseph. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the passing of a distinguished scholar and a scion of the Syrian Jewish community. We extend our condolences to his daughter, Naomi Neustadter, and our Segan, and the entire Sutton family. Alvin Deutsc
 Carl G. Hempel, whose rigorously empirical approach to scientific logic was at the center of American scholarly writing on the philosophy of science for several decades, died on Nov. 9 at a nursing home near Princeton, N.J. He was 92. Dr. Hempel, called Peter, taught at Princeton Un
 Donald Bannard Goodall, a professor of art history, founding director of the University of Texas Art Museum in Austin and a specialist in Latin American art, died on Oct. 27 at his home in Glendale, Calif. He was 85. He was born in Los Angeles in 1912. He received an undergraduate d
 Dr. Aaron J. Sharp, a botanist and avid popularizer of botany who applied his studies of moss around the world to such sweeping questions as plate tectonics, died on Nov. 16 at Fort Sanders Regional Medical Center in Knoxville, Tenn., where he lived. He was 93. Dr. Sharp was a co-au
 Harold S. Geneen, an executive seen by many as both the architect of the international conglomerate and the most significant and controversial businessman of the 1960's and 70's, died of a massive heart attack at New York Hospital on Friday evening, his secretary, Marie Serio, said. He was 
 Lester David, who wrote 14 books and hundreds of magazine articles, died on Nov. 10 at South Nassau Communities Hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Woodmere, N.Y. Mr. David began his career at The Brooklyn Eagle in 1935, working as a reporter, copy editor and assistan
 BREAKSTONE-Jacob (Jack). We mourn the passing of our dear cousin who suffered for so many years with MS. May he now rest in peace. With love. Juliet Diamond, Marilyn Meadow Jon Meadow       
 DALY-James E. (''Jed''), 56, financial specialist. James E. Daly, known as ''Jed,'' died of heart failure at New York Hospital Nov. 15. Mr. Daly suffered from end-stage renal disease since 1989 and received hemodialysis at home from his wife. An unsuccessful transplant in 1995 left him phys
 DANISH-Roy. Died on November 20, 1997, at the age of 78. He is survived by his daughters Elisabeth Wheeler and Caroline Thies, his brother Keith, and three grandchildren. Born in Manhattan on March 2, 1919, he graduated from Columbia in 1940, earned an MBA from Harvard in 1942, then served 
 DICKE-Richard M., Sr. The National Center for Disability Services family sincerely mourns the passing of our dear friend and longtime Director, and former Chairman of the Board, Richard M. Dicke, Sr. A gentleman of unparalled humanity and generosity of spirit, his support, encouragement and
 DRESDALE-David, Dr. The Department of Medicine records with sorrow the passing of Dr. Dresdale. Dr. Dresdale was a leader in the field of Cardiovascular Diseases and made many important contributions during his many years as a member of the Department of Medicine at the Maimonides Medical C
 GARFINKEL-Henry ''Hank'', at home on November 21 at age 57 after a valiant battle with cancer. A Ph.D. from Columbia University, his creativity shone through during his career as a toy inventor. Proud to be Andrew and Allison's father, beloved and adored husband of Susan, devoted son of the
 GRUNBERG-Paul, 72. November 8 at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany, after a long illness. Born in Milan Italy, educated in Italy and France, came to New York at age fifteen. A graduate of the Columbia University School of Architecture, he maintained a private practice in Manhattan for twelve y
 GURLAND-Haim. Beloved husband of Estelle for 55 years. Devoted father of Judith and Robert, father-in-law of Warren Blaker and Gaby Jordan. Adored grandfather of Avram, Lauren and Emily. Loyal brother, uncle and friend. After a valiant struggle with cancer in his 93rd year. Services were he
 HAGEDORN-Charles, 79, on November 17, 1997, beloved husband of the late Jane, devoted father of Christopher, cherished grandfather of Christopher and James. At Charles' request a private family service was held. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date. Donations in his memory can be
 KEOGH-Rev. Msgr. John P. Of Hammpton Bays, NY, on November 21, 1997. (Pastor Emeritus St. Clare's R.C. Church, Staten Island.) Devoted brother of Rev. Msgr. Thomas J. Keogh, Mary Good and Francis E. Keogh. Reposing Sunday at St. Rosalie's R.C. Church, Hampton Bays, LI, 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass 
 KIRK-Grayson L. On behalf of the entire University commmunity, the President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of President Emeritus Grayson L. Kirk. During his 17 years of leadership, Dr. Kirk forged a new and expanded role for the American university t
 NOLAN-Bishop John Gavin, S.T.D. On November 19, 1997. Auxiliary Bishop of Archdiocese for the Military Services USA, Chaplain, NY Athletic Club for 20 years and former Secretary General Catholic Near East Welfare Association. Survived by brother Michael of Schuylerville, NY, sister Kathleen
 RUDY-Robert Paul. On Thursday, November 20, 1997. In his 83rd year. After a long and valiant battle with cancer. Beloved husband for fifty-six years of Joan Price Rudy. Loving father of John and Janice and the late Richard. Adoring grandfather of Hilary, Brett and Kerri. Devoted brother of 
 SILVEY-Harold D. On behalf of the Officers, Trustees and entire Congregation, we mourn the loss of our esteemed honorary president. Harold led this congregation with devotion, loyalty and distinction. He was always jovial and always gave his first concern to his family and to the Temple. Ou
 SMITH-Ronald Stanton. Ronnie was a wonderful human being. He was a truly honorable man. His talent, sense of humor and kindness will be greatly missed. He was retired from Tiffany & Co, where he worked for 27 years. He is survived by his sister Carolyn, his brother-in-law Richard, nieces an
 VISSCHER-Steven H. On November 21, Steve lost his long battle against AIDS. A celebration of his life will be held on Sunday, November 30, at 2 PM at B. Smith's Rooftop Cafe, 711 Eighth Ave, NYC, 212-247-2222.       
 Ismail Fahmy, a former Egyptian Foreign Minister who resigned in 1977 because he opposed President Anwar el-Sadat's visit to Jerusalem  died on Friday at a hospital in Cairo. He was 75 and lived in Cairo. He died after suffering a heart attack and had been hospitalized earlier becau
 James Robert Baker, a novelist known for his wildly imaginative satires, committed suicide on Nov. 5 at his home in Pacific Palisades, Calif., said Ken Camp, a friend. He was 50. Mr. Baker was a graduate of the film school at the University of California at Los Angeles, where he won
 Jorge Mas Canosa, who came to the United States as a penniless refugee from the dictatorship of Fidel Castro and built the Cuban-American National Foundation into one of Washington's most effective lobbying groups, died here this afternoon at home. He was 58. Mr. Mas died of lung ca
 Nathan Gould, who built Women's American ORT into a force in American Jewish life and a mainstay of a worldwide network, died on Nov. 10 at New York University Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Roslyn, N.Y. ORT, an acronym of the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training
 DICKE-Richard M., Sr. The National Center for Disability Services family sincerely mourns the passing of our dear friend and longtime Director, and former Chairman of the Board, Richard M. Dicke, Sr. A gentleman of unparalled humanity and generosity of spirit, his support, encouragement and
 GARBER-Larry C. Of Rahway, NJ. Died on November 23, after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of David and Daniel. Adoring grandfather of Adam, Alysa and Drew. Dear friend of Marilee and Gary Bleetstein. Graveside service Monday, November 24, at Mt. Lebanon
 GENEEN-Harold S. The management and employees of General Bearing Corporation mourn the loss of Harold Geneen, an extraordinary man. Mr. Geneen was a good friend of our company as well as a director and advisor. The loss of his special brand of wisdom and guidance will be difficult to bear. 
 GOTLOB-Mark. The trustees and staff of The American Federation of Arts mourn the untimely death of Mark Gotlob, Deputy Director of the organization. Our hearts go out to his beloved wife and son, Ellen and Evan, his mother and family. He will be deeply missed. Robert M. Meltzer, Chairman Ja
 KEOGH-Rev. Msgr. John P. Of Hammpton Bays, NY, on November 21, 1997. (Pastor Emeritus St. Clare's R.C. Church, Staten Island.) Devoted brother of Rev. Msgr. Thomas J. Keogh, Mary Good and Francis E. Keogh. Reposing Sunday at St. Rosalie's R.C. Church, Hampton Bays, LI, 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass 
 KLORES-Moe. Survived by wife Betty, daughter Lenore Harmon, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and brother. He will be missed.       
 NOYES-Elliot ''Red.'' He made the world a better place, we will miss him. The Gribin Family       
 O'BRIEN-John P. On November 23, 1997. Survived by his brothers Thomas and James, devoted nieces and nephews, and his lifelong companion Durwood Herron. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Stephen of Hungary
 SAPIENZA-Nicolo ''Pat.'' Founder of ''The Theatre Bar Restaurant'' of 45th St. passed away peacefully 11/22/97 at the age of 92. Friend of many young budding actors and actresses of the 40's and 50's, with an encouraging word, sympathetic ear and a free meal when needed. Loving father of Mr
 SILVEY-Harold D. On behalf of the Officers, Trustees and entire Congregation, we mourn the loss of our esteemed honorary president. Harold led this congregation with devotion, loyalty and distinction. He was always jovial and always gave his first concern to his family and to the Temple. Ou
 STOLZ-Samuel S. On November 23, 1997, after a long and glorious life, in his home peacefully at the age of 91. Husband of Freda. Father of Margrit, Robert and James. Grandfather of Erik, Oliver, Adam, Daniel and Freda. Father-in-law of Roger, Marlene and Chris. Survived by his sister Barbar
 VENTURA-Jules C. November 21, 1997. President of Durlacher and Co. Beloved husband of Aileen. Loving father of Thorne, Douglas and Aimee. Devoted grandfather of Elizabeth and Emily. Loving brother of Bertram. Devoted uncle of Lori, Susan and Ronald. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his 
 James R. Mellow, a distinguished critic and author who wrote a trilogy  of biographies about writers of the Lost Generation, died on Saturday at his home in Rockport, Mass. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, said Augie Capaccio, his companion of 46 years. Mr. Mellow had a home
 COHENSON-Rabbi Chaim. The Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York and its Staff Organization record with profound sorrow the death of Rabbi Chaim Cohenson. Rabbi Cohenson was a veteran Jewish educator, highly respected and loved by his colleagues and his students. May his entire famil
 DRESDALE-David, MD. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. David Dresdale. Dr. Dresdale was affiliated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Department of Cardiology for about 50 years. He was the Founder of the Cardio Catheterization Laboratory.
 DRUCKMAN-David. New York Metro Chapter of the American Society of Interior Designers mourns with sorrow the passing of David Druckman, a man of vision. His contributions furthering the design industry are well noted. A kind, dear friend of the Chapter, he will be missed. Terry Finkel, ASID,
 FERRARI-Larry L. Nov. 20, 1997 of Cinnaminson, NJ. Age 65 years. Beloved son of the late Colomba Resteghini Ferrari of Boston, MA. Dearest cousin of Edith Resteghini, Genevive Resteghini, Alfred Resteghini, Louis Resteghini, Peter Resteghini, John Resteghini, Rita Giannaocari and Ann Marie 
 FRIEDMAN-Milton age 84 of Fairlawn. Husband of the late Esther Friedman. He was a graduate of CCNY and a retired inspector for the federal government. Served in W.W. II in the Navy, the Pacific Theater. Surviving, a sister Evelyn Linker. Services 10:30 AM, today, Robert Schoem's Menorah Cha
 GARFINKEL-Henry ''Hank''. Congregation Zichron Eliezer mourns the loss of our beloved founding member. We express our heartfelt sympathy to his devoted wife and children. Rabbi Tzvi Kramer Dr. Perry Wyner, President       
 GENEEN-Harold S. November 21, 1997. Beloved husband of June. He is survived by his five nephews and their families. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Tuesday, November 25, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. A private interment will folllow. In lieu of flowers, contributions
 GOLDSTEIN-Bernard. Beloved husband of Belle. Died Saturday, November 22, 1997. His sisters, Anita and Roz, and children, Harriet and Mark, all miss him.       
 KIRK-Grayson L. The Officers, Directors and Staff of the Tinker Foundation express their profound sorrow on the passing of Dr. Kirk. As an internationalist and scholar, he contributed mightily to the organization of the Security Council at the United Nations, the growth and expansion of Col
 LOTZ-R. James, Jr. 74. Saturday, November 22. Born in Reading, PA. Descendant of Col. Nicholas Lotz of the Revolutionary Army. Chairman and Cofounder, International Management Advisors, Inc. Survived by his wife, Constance Klages Lotz, his daughter, Brenda Davidson, his son, Roy James Lotz,
 MATATIA-Joseph V. The Executive Committee and Central Council of the Sephardic Jewish Brotherhood of America sincerely mourn the passing of our dear friend and longtime volunteer, Joseph V. Matatia. His dedication, loyalty, and service to our organization spanned more than forty years. His 
 MATSON-Francis P. Beloved husband of Rita Knoblock, dear father of Lenore of Coral Gables, FL., and Howard of Westport, CT. Devoted grandfather of Lewis, Kenneth and Lesley. Dear brother of Stanley. Contributions in his memory to Westport Public Library, Westport, CT. 06880.       
 MORRIS-Norman M., 99. In his sleep on November 24. Beloved husband of the late Adele (nee Groden) for sixty years. Devoted father of Arline and Marvin Lubin and Robert and Sandi Morris. Proud grandfather of Kenneth Lubin, Wendy and Paul Aglietti, Carol and Michael Hundert, Lee and Merry Mor
 NEUBERGER - Franklin, Jr. (Chick). Died peacefully November 17, 1997, at Rancho Bernardo, San Diego, California, his home for the past ten years, joining his wife, Janet, deceased three years prior, and daughter, Jill, whose passing while in her teens and whose memory stayed with Chick thro
 PARKER-George MacDonald, Jr. On Saturday, November 22, 1997, at age 61 of prostate cancer. Of Smith's Parish, Bermuda. A graduate of Deerfield Academy, Yale University 1958, and Harvard Business School 1962. He served as a Lieutenant (junior grade) in the U.S. Navy from 1958 to 1960. After 
 RAND-Alfred. Age 89, November 24, 1997. Beloved husband of Rita Lewis Rand and loving father of Dr. Kenneth Rand, and devoted stepfather of Sara Stone and Laura Ross, and adoring grandfather of Erik, Colin, Betsy-Gail, Andrea, Ralph, Elizabeth, and David, and great grandfather of Jamie and 
 RUBINSON-Albert. Age 91, of Belle Harbor, Queens. Husband of the late Martha; brother of Dr. Solomon Rubinson of Long Beach, LI; father of Ellen R. Zamore; grandfather of Dr. Phillip D. Zamore of Charlestown, MA., and Rabbi Mary Lande Zamore of Westfield, NJ; great grandfather of Hannah Hil
 SAMUELS-Sam. Beloved husband of Frances, father of Ron and Mark, father-in-law of Debbie, dear grandfather of Ron II, Lauren and Joseph. Attorney for over sixty years, Arbitrator and former Chief Law Assistant of the Civil Court, Kings County. Religious and Masonic services today 1:30 P.M.,
 SAPIENZA-Nicolo ''Pat.'' Founder of ''The Theatre Bar Restaurant'' of 45th St. passed away peacefully 11/22/97 at the age of 92. Friend of many young budding actors and actresses of the 40's and 50's, with an encouraging word, sympathetic ear and a free meal when needed. Loving father of Mr
 SELTZER-Sidney. On November 23, 1997, beloved and wonderful husband of Bailey. Outstanding father of Daniel, Linda, Elaine, and Alan. Caring brother of Esther Solomon. Cherished grandfather of Nicole and Michael. Father-inlaw of Steve. Devoted uncle. Proud owner of G & S Electric Company. S
 STOLZ-Samuel S. On November 23, 1997, after a long and glorious life, in his home peacefully at the age of 91. Husband of Freda. Father of Margrit, Robert and James. Grandfather of Erik, Oliver, Adam, Daniel and Freda. Father-in-law of Roger, Marlene and Chris. Survived by his sister Barbar
 TEPPER-Stanley B. Died suddenly Nov. 22, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley for 56 years. Devoted father of Lesley Solomon and the late Jeffrey. Dear father-in-law of Stanley Solomon and Sandra Tepper. Cherished and adored grandfather of Philip, Barry, Jorden, Melissa and Amanda. His uncondit
 WEIN-Alan Michael. Loving son, devoted brother, loyal family member, friend and distinguished educator. Beloved by everyone, he will be terribly missed.       
 Norman M. Morris, an entrepreneur and philanthropist, died on Monday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 99. Born in Austria-Hungary, he was brought to New York at the age of 3. He got his start in the watch business as a delivery boy for an importer at 15 and went to school at nig
 DRESDALE-David, M.D. The Division of Cardiology at Maimonides Medical Center mourns the loss of a devoted physician, superb clinician and dedicated teacher. David Dresdale distinguished himself over many decades of service to his patients and to Maimonides Medical Center. He integrated unbe
 HATHAWAY-Clemens F. Former Vice President at J. Walter Thompson died Nov. 13, 1997 at his home in Totowa, New Jersey. The cause of death was complications following a series of strokes. He was 83 years old. Mr. Hathaway began his long career in advertising at J. Walter Thompson in 1935 wher
 JOSEPH-J.J., 83. Economist, political writer, and peace activist, died Sunday from complications of Parkinson Disease. He graduated from the University of Michigan with a B.A. and a Master's in Public Administration. He worked with the OSS and UNRRA but a promising career in public service 
 MATUNAS-Anthony L. M.D. Retired from the Veteran's Administration. He died peacefully in his sleep on November 23, 1997 in his home at the age of 86. He is survived by his wife Marian and his son Tony.       
 MORRIS-Norman M. 99. In his sleep on November 24. Beloved husband of the late Adele (nee Groden) for sixty years. Devoted father of Arline and Marvin Lubin and Robert and Sandi Morris. Proud grandfather of Kenneth Lubin, Wendy and Paul Aglietti, Carol and Michael Hundert, Lee and Merry Morr
 PARKER - George MacDonald. The Board of Directors of Fiduciary Trust International mourns the passing of its esteemed friend and colleague on November 22 in Frankfurt, Germany. He rendered thoughtful and cogent advice for the benefit of the company and its clients during his six years as a 
 RAND-Alfred. The Board of Directors of The Lombardy, the residents and staff mourn with sorrow the passing of Alfred Rand on November 24, 1997. Mr. Rand, a resident of The Lombardy for 29 years dedicated his services to the organization as a Member Director, Chairman of the Board and Treasu
 RUBINSON-Albert. West End Temple Neponsit New York mourns the death of a devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to his daughter Ellen and family.       
 SAPIENZA-Nicolo ''Pat.'' Founder of ''The Theatre Bar Restaurant'' of 45th St. passed away peacefully 11/22/97 at the age of 92. Friend of many young budding actors and actresses of the 40's and 50's, with an encouraging word, sympathetic ear and a free meal when needed. Loving father of Mr
 WARDWELL-Frederic Koppe. Of Brooklyn, NY, died November 24, 1997. Husband of Frances Jacoby Wardwell (deceased); father of Paul Wardwell. Served in WWII, United States Merchant Service. Graduate of The University of Chicago. He is survived by his son Paul and sisters Dorothy, Kathryn, Marjo
 ZARETSKY-Irving. Congregation Kol Ami Jewish Community Center of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member, and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark Hershey, President       
 LEWIS-Robert. ''A was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again.'' Michael and Cheryl       
 Roger Brown, a leading painter of the Chicago Imagist style, whose radiant, panoramic images were as passionately political as they were rigorously visual, died on Saturday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 55 and had homes and studios in Chicago, New Buffalo, Mich., and Carpenteria, 
 Ira Wolfert, a Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent in World War II who wrote the acclaimed 1943 novel ''Tucker's People,'' on which the cult movie ''Force of Evil'' was based, died on Monday at Mountainside Residential Care Center in Margaretville, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Lake Hill
 Hastings Kamuzu Banda, a founding father in postcolonial Africa who led Malawi to independence in 1964 and then ruled it with a combination of caustic wit, eccentricity and cruelty for 30 years, died on Tuesday night in a hospital here. Dr. Banda died of respiratory failure. He had 
 BAYLIS-Chester, Jr. November 25, 1997 at his home in Locust, New Jersey at age eighty-nine. He is survived by his wife Dorothy Smith, his son Robert M., three grandsons Robert W., David M. and John C., and one great granddaughter Emma Kate. His career at Bankers Trust New York Corporation s
 BISSELL-Gregory F., O.F.M. (Brother Thorn) of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, Nov. 25, 1997. Husband of Griselda (Ballester). Father of Griselda Clare Gadsby, Jacksonville, N.C., G. Thaddeus, Allendale, N.J., Mark G., Middletown, NY & Christopher B., Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J. Brother of Stephen J., Valley Cottage, N.
 CHRISTOFORIDES-Nicholas. The physicians and staff of The Kyrenia Center for Interventional Cardiology, New York Hospital Queens extend their sympathy to our founder and benefactor, Phillip Christopher and the entire Christopher family on the passing of their father. May his memory be eterna
 HORTON-John J. (Jack), 78. On November 25, 1997 of Huntington, New York and Grantham, New Hampshire. Survived by his wife Violet of 50 years. Daughters Holly Horton Mannix of San Francisco, Calif., and Carol Horton Parsons of New London, New Hampshire. His brother James of Silver Springs, M
 JOHNSTONE-Edmund F. Age 88, of Point Manalapan, died Sunday, November 23, 1997. Mr. Johnstone was an area resident since 1973, coming here from New York. He was an advertising executive from the mid 1930's until his retirement in 1973. He was preceded in death by his son, Edmund F. (Ned) Jo
 MORRIS-Norman. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of The Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute and The Officers of The HJD Research and Development Foundation are saddened to learn of the passing of Norman Morris, a Founder of The Foundation and a committed 
 ORLIKOFF-David. Of North Branford, CT., died peacefully on November 23, at the age of 88. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he graduated from Columbia College in 1929 and from Columbia Law School in 1932. During World War II he served overseas with the Army Corps of engineers. As a trial attorney with 
 PARKER - George MacDonald. The Board of Directors of Fiduciary Trust International mourns the passing of its esteemed friend and colleague on November 22 in Frankfurt, Germany. He rendered thoughtful and cogent advice for the benefit of the company and its clients during his six years as a 
 POHS-Jack. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time former member, Jack Pohs, and extend to his bereaved wife, Lois, and the members of his family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
 PURCELL-Edward Raymond. Of Tewksbury, N.J., died at home on Sunday, November 23, 1997. He was a respected attorney and real estate developer in Morristown, NJ for 29 years. He is a graduate of Bergen Catholic High School (1961), Boston College (1965) and New York University Law School (1968
 RAND-Al. The Board of Trustees and members of the Ocean Beach Club note with sadness the passing of longtime member Al Rand. We extend sincere condolences to his wife Rita and family. Sandy Paskin, President Laurie Lowenstein, Secretary       
 STEINER-Oscar. On November 23, 1997 in Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved husband, father, greatgrandfather and great-greatgrandfather. Survived by his wife Mitzi, three children, Gloria, Robert and Michael.       
 Werner Hofer, one of the best-known television journalists in postwar Germany, whose career was ended by reports about his activities under the Nazis, died at his home in Cologne Tuesday night, German television reported. He was 84. Mr. Hofer achieved national fame for over 30 years
 James F. Bender, an eclectic educator who started out training speech therapists in the 1930's and ended up teaching business in the 1970's, but only after he had done star turns as a public pronunciation specialist and pioneering pop psychologist, become a high-paid business consultant and
 Dr. Marvin C. Goldstein, an orthodontist and businessman who defied the segregationist sentiments of the mid-1960's by opening Atlanta's first integrated hotel, died on Saturday at his Atlanta home. He was 80. Dr. Goldstein's hotel, the American, opened in 1964 and became a haven fo
 BERMAN-Philip I. The Jewish Publication Society records with great sorrow the passing of our life trustee and benefactor. Together with his dear wife, our past president Dr. Muriel M. Berman, he supported our publication program through the creation of the Philip and Muriel Berman Endowment
 FRANTZMAN-Leo. Of the Upper Westside, peacefully on November 27 at age 88. Husband of the late Sally. He is survived by loving sisters Eva Weisbrot and Ceilia Gellman and dear brother George, beloved son Joel and Perry, grandchildren Julia, Seth, Jake and Sara and numerous nieces, nephews a
 KANDEL-Morton H. In his sleep on November 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Lottie, father of William and Robert, father-in-law of Joyce, grandfather of Ari. Service at home in Palm Beach, FL, Friday, Noon; graveside service Sunday 1 PM, at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, New York.       
 McSHEA-Robert J. Died November 25, 1997. Professor emeritus, Boston University. Survived by his wife of more than 49 years, Naomi S. of Brookline, MA, his daughter Sarah D. of New York, NY, his son Daniel W., daughter-in-law Diane Ritchie and granddaughter Hannah Leah, of Durham, NC, and si
 PARKER - George MacDonald. The Board of Directors of Fiduciary Trust International mourns the passing of its esteemed friend and colleague on November 22 in Frankfurt, Germany. He rendered thoughtful and cogent advice for the benefit of the company and its clients during his six years as a 
 SIEGFRIED-Charles A. Franklin and Marshall College of Lancaster, PA, acknowledges with sorrow the passing of Charles A. Siegfried. A 1930 graduate of The College with Phi Beta Kappa honors, Mr. Siegfried went on to an illustrious career with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, where he eve
 THALER-Rabbi Richard. Beloved husband of Julie. Loving father of Gilad and Itai. Precious son of Rabbi Albert and Shirley Thaler. Loving brother of Judy Kane and Dena Thaler. Services 10:30 A.M., at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51 Street, New York City. THALER-Rabbi Richard. ''T
 Stephen L. R. McNichols, a liberal Democrat who served as Governor of Colorado as the state was emerging from its agrarian past, died on Tuesday at University Hospital in Denver. He was 83 and lived in Denver. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. McNichols, a la
 Buck Leonard, regarded as the greatest first baseman in the history of the Negro leagues, deprived of a chance to play major league baseball but a Hall of Famer nonetheless,  died Thursday at Nash General Hospital in his hometown of Rocky Mount, N.C. He was 90. A power-hitting left-
 BRITTON-Coburn, 61. Poet and former publisher, died of cancer on November 26 at his home in Lebanon, New Jersey. Born in Cleveland and longtime resident of New York City, he was co-publisher of Horizon Press in the 1960's and founder of ''Prose'', a belletrist magazine in 1970. After closin
 DEUTSCH-Dr. Alex. On November 24, at the age of 84 he passed peacefully in his sleep. Beloved husband of the late Terry (nee Crystal), devoted and beloved father to Beth, Stella, Les, Philip, and adored grandfather of Jon, David, and Jason. He is survived by his sisters Lee and Anne. He lov
 FRANTZMAN-Leo. Husband of the late Sally. He is survived by loving sisters Eva Weisbrot and Ceilia Gellman and dear brother George, beloved son Joel and Perry, grandchildren Julia, Seth, Jake and Sara and numerous nieces, nephews and cousins. He has left a hole in the hearts of his closest 
 GILBERT-Paul L. M.D. On November 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Harriet. Father of Laura Gilbert-Merrill, David Gilbert and Daniel Gilbert. Cherished grandfather of Jena and Aidan Paul GilbertMerrill, and Michael and Zachary Gilbert. Memorial service Sunday 2 P.M., Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Mad
 KESSELBRENNER-Israel., M.D. November 27. Beloved husband of the late Ida. He is survived by sons Michael and Dan, daughters-inlaw Doree and Sarah, and grandchildren, Kiersten, Jeffrey, Joseph, David, Sarah, Louis, Joel. Retired director of Manhattan State Hospital & Clinical Professor at Co
 MAYPER-Stuart. The Officers and Trustees of the Institute of General Semantics mourn the death of Stuart Mayper, longtime Trustee, Editor of the General Semantics Bulletin and teacher for nearly thirty years at Institute seminars. He will be sorely missed.       
 PARKER - George MacDonald. The Board of Directors of Fiduciary Trust International mourns the passing of its esteemed friend and colleague on November 22 in Frankfurt, Germany. He rendered thoughtful and cogent advice for the benefit of the company and its clients during his six years as a 
 THALER-Rabbi Richard J. With sorrow we record the untimely passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi since 1993 of Sutton Place Synagogue in Manhattan. His religious leadership there and in communities in Israel and Long Island reflected his passionate commitment to his congregational communi
 WALTZER-Jack. Our father was a man of exceptional insight and empathy. He had more energy and vitality than most men half his age, and he was an eager and hearty participant in life-always welcoming opportunities and embracing challenges. His lust for life never flagged. His strength of cha
 Stanton L. Catlin, an art historian who did pioneering work in the study and documentation of modern Mexican mural painting, died on Wednesday at his home in Fayetteville, N.Y. He was 82. Mr. Catlin, who organized the influential exhibition ''Art of Latin America Since Independence'
 Charles G. Hagedorn, a publisher of a chain of small newspapers in New York and Connecticut, died on Nov. 17 at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Hagedorn, who lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y., was 79. The cause of death was a stroke, his son, Christopher, said. Mr. Hagedo
 Coleman A. Young, the combative, tart-tongued former union organizer who became the first black Mayor of Detroit when he was elected in 1973 and then went on to run the city for a record 20 years, died yesterday at Sinai Hospital in Detroit. He was 79. The cause of death was respira
 Jack M. Berry, a Tennessee-born New York businessman who made a fortune in Florida orange groves, died on Nov. 21 at a hospital near his home in Winter Haven, Fla. He was 81 and the last of the Florida citrus barons who transformed the industry in the 1960's. The death certificate l
 Auxiliary Bishop John Gavin Nolan of the Archdiocese for the Military Services, which serves more than a million Catholics in the United States and around the world, died on Nov. 19 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and most recently lived in Manhattan. He suffered a long 
 BERMAN-Philip I. The Officers and Board of American Friends of the Hebrew University (AFHU) mourn with great sadness the passing of our friend & benefactor Philip I. Berman, a member of of the AFHU Board of Directors whose vision and generosity meant so much to the University. The contribut
 DANISH-Roy. Died on November 20, 1997, at the age of 78. He is survived by his daughters Elisabeth Wheeler and Caroline Thies, his brother Keith, and three grandchildren. Born in Manhattan on March 2, 1919, he graduated from Columbia in 1940, earned an MBA from Harvard in 1942, then served 
 FERNANDEZ-Dr. Xavier A. On November 23, in Fort Myers, Florida. Internationally recognized scholar with respect to classical Spanish theater and, in particular, the works of Tirso de Molina. Professor emeritus from State University of New York at Albany. Survived by his wife, Dr. Laura B. F
 FISCHBACH-Jerome. November 28. Loving son of the late Beatrice and Harry. Cherished husband of Eleanore. Beloved father of Stefanie (John) Whalen, Penny Cutler, Bede (Steven) Levinson, and Nancy (Selwyn) Taubman. Loving grandfather of Robin, Sandi, Sara, Jonathan, Matthew, Ethan, and Rachel
 GILBERT-Paul L. M.D. On November 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Harriet. Father of Laura Gilbert-Merrill, David Gilbert and Daniel Gilbert. Cherished grandfather of Jena and Aidan Paul GilbertMerrill, and Michael and Zachary Gilbert. Memorial service Sunday 2 P.M., Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Mad
 GREEN-Thomas M. III. Headmaster, died peacefully at home in Savannah, GA, Thanksgiving Day. Born Baltimore, MD, 1922. For 16 years was headmaster of the Peck School in Morristown, NJ. He is survived by his wife, Dulcinea Lee Green; two brothers, Douglas Sadtler Green and John McEldowney Gre
 HENNESSY-Harry J., 77. Died November 21, 1997. Harry, a retired newscaster for WOR Radio is survived by his wife Helen of Columbus, Ohio, two daughters Maryann of Columbus, Ohio and Caroline of Norwich, CT., four grandchildren, his niece and his nephew.       
 KELLY-Eugene A. Of Southbury, CT., died on November 20, age 86. A 1936 graduate of The Cooper Union, he had a distinguished career as a chemical engineer with the Kellex Corporation during World War II and later with Hydrocarbon Research Inc., and the CE Lummus Company. Survived by his sons
 KLEIN-Howard L. On November 25, 1997. Dear husband of Lenore Metzger Klein, brother of Helen Levinson, brother-in-law of Carlyle Levinson, Mortimer Metzger, Judith and James Riggs, loving uncle of Jane Laffend, Warren Metzger, Janice Levinson, Elise Levinson, Katherine Riggs, Nancy Riggs, a
 MAILLARD-Dr. Leslie Woodrow. On November 29, 1997. Former Chief of Proctology at Flushing Hospital. Respected and loved by his patients and peers. World War II Lieutenant Colonel, Physician for the Pacific Theater Air Corps. He will be missed by his wife Peggy and sons Steven and Robert, an
 MILANO-Daniel Adam. Age 26, of NYC, on November 28, after a valiant and determined six year battle with cancer. Loving husband of Laura Aguilar. Beloved son of Joan and Andrew. Cherished brother of Eric and Amy. He was a graduate of Brown University and a neurobiologic researcher at the Col
 NOYES-M. Elliot (Red). In Florida, on November 22, 1997. We mourn the loss of our beloved brother-inlaw, uncle and great-uncle. He was principal of Great Neck North High School for 14 years. Our love goes out to his wife, Adele (Truen), and his family. A memorial service will be held on Tue
 PARKER - George MacDonald. The Board of Directors of Fiduciary Trust International mourns the passing of its esteemed friend and colleague on November 22 in Frankfurt, Germany. He rendered thoughtful and cogent advice for the benefit of the company and its clients during his six years as a 
 ROCK-Alfonso Darrell, M.D. Died in Brooklyn, NY, on November 27, 1997. Dr. Rock served the AfricanAmerican community in Bedford Stuyvesant as a devoted physician for more than 40 years. He emigrated from Barbados to America as a child and attended NYC Public Schools, where he received a fre
 SAROT-Dr. Eden E. Professor of Modern Languages and Linguistics at Seton Hall University from the 1930's until his retirement in 1976, died Tuesday evening, November 25, 1997, in Sunrise, FL. He was preceded in death by his parents, Nathan and Sadie Sarot, his brother, Irving Sarot, MD, and
 THALER-Rabbi Richard. ''The Crown of our Head is Fallen'' (Lamentations 5:16). Our hearts are bleeding at the loss of a dynamic 41 year old young man and our Rabbi, who possessed a boundless love for the Jewish people, the State of Israel and an enthusiasm for Jewish life which he imparted 
 TURANO-Emanuel Nicholas. Architect, March 1, 1917 to November 23, 1997. Cooper Union, Certificate in Architecture 1941; served with US Army Air Force 1941-1945, decorated Distinguished Flying Cross Air Medal. Harvard B. Arch. 1947; Fulbright Fellow 1950; Harvard M. of Arch. 1963; Cooper Uni
 VOSO-Louis, 66. Died in his sleep November 15 at his home in East Greenwich, NY. Born in Brooklyn, he was a graduate of St. John's University and served in the army stationed in Germany during the Korean War. He was an astute businessman who served as Chief Financial Officer and Director of
 WALTZER-Jack. Our father was a man of exceptional insight and empathy. He had more energy and vitality than most men half his age, and he was an eager and hearty participant in life-always welcoming opportunities and embracing challenges. His lust for life never flagged. His strength of cha
 Richard R. Ruopp, a president emeritus of Bank Street College who adapted up-to-date technologies for the classroom, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said. Dr. Ruopp wa
 W. L. Hadley Griffin, retired chairman and chief executive of a national footwear company and a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, died on Nov. 9 at his home in St. Louis. He was 79. The cause of death was cancer, said a son, Dustin H. Griffin 2d. Mr. 
