 A.J. Richard, whose contagious enthusiasm for new gadgets transformed P.C. Richard & Son from a hardware store into a major retailer of consumer appliances and electronics, died on Dec. 28 in West Islip, N.Y. He was 95 and lived in Bay Shore and Port St. Lucie, Fla. The cause was pn
 Charles Biederman, an American Modernist painter, sculptor and theorist who made his mark in New York in the 1930's, died on Sunday at his home in Red Wing, Minn. He was 98. His death was announced by Lyndel King, director of the Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum at the University of 
 KAPLAN--Milton I., M.D., On December 25, 2004, at the age of 93. Adored father of Lois Nelson, Bruce (Madeline) Kaplan, and Rachelle (Adin) Goldberg. Cherished grandfather of Stephanie Nelson (Michael) Robin and Richard (Wendy) Nelson; Lauren, Brian, and Mark Kaplan; and Robin, Jodie, and J
 LEVINSON--Ted. Of New York and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully December 26, 2004 at age 74. Graduate of the Pennington School, Class of 1948, and Lafayette College, Class of 1952. Beloved husband of the late Doris. Loving father of Harlan and Randy, and father-in-law of Jennifer. Adoring gr
 MANDEL--Allan Judah. Departed on Shabbos Kodesh, December 25, 2004. Graduate of Lincoln High School, City College, Brooklyn Law School. Most loving and beloved husband of Phyllis for 47 years. Dearest father of Shera (Bruce), Rabbi Marc (Jackie), Alisa Rivky (Robbie), and Gary (Yael). Adore
 MURPHY--Justin J., 96, of East Hampton, CT, formerly of Manhasset, NY, husband of the late Helen (Nolan) Murphy, passed away Tuesday (December 28, 2004) at home. Graduate of Regis High School, New York, and honored by the school with its ''Deo et Patriae'' award. Honored recipient of The Co
 SEGAL--Myron, December 31, 2004. Beloved husband of Iris. Loving father of Lisa, Amy and her husband Philipe. Cherished grandfather of Quis, Kiwani, Nierika, Rubyrose, Robert and James and great-grandfather of Tamika. Devoted brother of Arlene and Marsha. He will be deeply missed by all who
 SILBERSTEIN--William. The William and Sylvia Silberstein Institute for Aging and Dementia of the New York University School of Medicine mourns the loss of its founder, friend and major benefactor, Mr. William Silberstein. Mr. Silberstein was a humanitarian who contributed to the alleviation
 SUSSMAN--David, CPA, 91 years old, of NYC and Woodridge, NY, on December 30th. He was preceded by his loving wife of 54 years, Doris Steinberg Sussman, and is survived by his children, Allan Sussman of Stamford, CT, Elaine Shafran of Buffalo Grove, IL, and five grandchildren. At his retirem
 ZIBNER--Richard F. Beloved husband of Beth. Devoted father Jay and Mark. Loving brother of Esta. Donations to the American Cancer Society would be appreciated. Services Sunday 11 AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. ZIBNER--Richard. The Board
 Peter Davison, the poet and editor who was the grandly youthful historic memory of literary Boston, died on Wednesday at his home on Beacon Hill. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Over 40 years, from the time his first collection, ''The Breaking of
 Wai-kam Ho, an art historian and curator considered one of the world's leading authorities on Chinese art, died on Tuesday in Shanghai. He was 80 and lived in Pittsburgh. The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said. At the time of his death, Mr. Ho was a guest curator a
 AXELROD--Dr. Julius. The Scientific Council and the Board of Directors of the National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression -- NARSAD -mourns the passing of Dr. Julius Axelrod. Dr. Axelrod was the honorary chairman of the NARSAD Scientific Council. His role was of inspiring
 BARA--Bertrand, 49, died December 26, 2004. He is survived by his companion William Knapp. He is also survived by two brothers, Jean, Philippe and sister Sophie Bara all of France. He was the son of the late Jean Raymond Andre Bara & mother Yvonne. Wake services on January 4 from 6-8, at St
 BERGMANN--David W., a respected executive and community volunteer, died Friday (December 24) after falling through the ice on a pond near his home while successfully rescuing his beloved dog, Red. He was 55 and a resident of Huntleigh, MO. Mr. Bergmann was an experienced venture capitalist 
 COHEN -- Herbert George, M.D. Was the devoted husband and best friend of Rhoda (Weiskopf) for almost 54 years. He was the loving and dedicated father of Mark and Alice (Knapp), and proud Grandpa to his adored granddaughters, Alexandra and Gabriella. He had three great loves in his life: his
 CONNORS--Msgr. Edward F. A great priest who brought compassion, moderation, wisdom and love to his preaching and teaching too. He is missed and mourned in Westchester and beyond... and instructs us still. Nancy Curry and William O'Shaughnessy       
 FREUND--Max. The Board of Directors of Greater New York Mutual Insurance Company record with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed, retired director who had long service on our board. All of us benefited from his wise counsel, clear thinking and significant insight over many years. We
 GLASER -- Miles Rudolph. Died peacefully on December 24, 2004 at M.D. Anderson Hospital after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in Prague, Czechoslovakia on May 2, 1925 he was the son of Dr. Oskar and Marketa Glaser, both of whom perished in the concentration camps. Miles survived three
 GREENE--Nicholas M., M.D., described as one of the founding fathers of modern anesthesiology, and a pioneer in the world of medicine, died Tuesday morning, December 28, 2004 at the YaleNew Haven Hospital after a long illness. He was 82. Dr Greene was a professor of anesthesiology at Yale Un
 JOHNSON -- John Bouvier. The Paget Foundation for Paget's Disease of Bone and Related Disorders mourns the loss of our beloved founder and president who led the foundation from 1978 to his death on December 24, 2004. A remarkable leader whose commitment to the Foundation was passionate and 
 KAPLAN--Milton I., M.D., On December 25, 2004, at the age of 93. Adored father of Lois Nelson, Bruce (Madeline) Kaplan, and Rachelle (Adin) Goldberg. Cherished grandfather of Stephanie Nelson (Michael) Robin and Richard (Wendy) Nelson; Lauren, Brian, and Mark Kaplan; and Robin, Jodie, and J
 MONAHAN--Sherwood L., 81, died December 22nd, 2004. Beloved husband of Margaret and father to Sherry. Memorial service Wednesday, January 5th, at 7 PM, at Soldiers Sailors and Airmen's Club, 283 Lexington Ave. He was dedicated to making a difference in the lives of others. He will be truly 
 NEWMAN--Lloyd N. (Larry). Beloved family and friends mourn the September 10, 2004 death of Larry, 73, former partner and Executive Vice President of the global public relations firm of Manning, Selvage and Lee, of New York, and President of Newman Partnership of Columbia, S.C., at his home 
 ORBACH--Jerry. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to Elaine and family. We've all lost a dear friend whose friendship knew no boundaries, whose celebrity was worn with graciousness and whose straight talk and story telling fascinated everyone within earshot. Jerry, we will miss the golf
 PERLOW -- Irving. The HAFTR community is deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved founding principal, devoted teacher and mentor. He was an unwavering advocate for our children. His passion and commitment since the establishment of the Hillel School, will never be forgotten. He is surv
 SEGAL--Myron, December 31, 2004. Beloved husband of Iris. Loving father of Lisa, Amy and her husband Philipe. Cherished grandfather of Quis, Kiwani, Nierika, Rubyrose, Robert and James and great-grandfather of Tamika. Devoted brother of Arlene and Marsha. He will be deeply missed by all who
 SELKOW--Aaron, 91. Beloved husband of Edith. Loving and devoted father of Paula, Beth and Joyce. Dear grandfather of David and Eliana. He lived with wit, humor, humility and compassion.       
 SILBERSTEIN--William. We mourn the loss of our client and dear friend. A man of extraordinary vision, energy and generosity. He left a legacy in his industry, his cherished New York University Hospital, White Plains Hospital, Indiana University and charities too numerous to mention. We exte
 SIPSER--Morris, December 26th, 2004 at age 84. Born in NYC November 9th, 1920, Mr. Sipser served in the U.S. Air Force during W.W. II. He reenlisted and served as an army intelligence officer in post-war Germany and was commissioned to apprehend prominent German scientists including Werner 
 SUSSMAN--David, CPA, 91 years old, of NYC and Woodridge, NY, on December 30th. He was preceded by his loving wife of 54 years, Doris Steinberg Sussman, and is survived by his children, Allan Sussman of Stamford, CT, Elaine Shafran of Buffalo Grove, IL, and five grandchildren. At his retirem
 WAINTROB--Abraham Lurie. On December 30, 2004 at age 96. As a noted equestrian photographer, he and his brother Sidney worked under the logo Budd Studio. They produced a multitude of classic equestrian images and a legacy of photographic portraits of 20th Century American and European artis
 Dr. William A. Silverman, a physician whose studies of newborns at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center helped alter the treatment of premature infants and gave many parents greater say in their babies' fates, died on Dec. 16 at his home in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 87. The cause was
 Joseph Durso, a former sportswriter and editor at The New York Times and the author of many books on sports history, died Friday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, N.Y. Mr. Durso, who lived in Nissequogue, N.Y., was 80. The cause was cancer, his wife, Margaret, said. Mr.
 BARA--Bertrand, 49, died December 26, 2004. He is survived by his companion William Knapp. He is also survived by two brothers, Jean, Philippe and sister Sophie Bara all of France. He was the son of the late Jean Raymond Andre Bara & mother Yvonne. Wake services on January 4 from 6-8, at St
 CHALFIN--Lawrence, M.D. On January 1, 2005. Loving husband, father, grandfather and brother. Dedicated psychoanalyst and educator. He is survived by wife Phyllis, children Susan, Tanya and Michael, brother Robert and grandchildren. We love you and miss you. Funeral services will be held on 
 COHEN -- Herbert George, M.D. Was the devoted husband and best friend of Rhoda (Weiskopf) for almost 54 years. He was the loving and dedicated father of Mark and Alice (Knapp), and proud Grandpa to his adored granddaughters, Alexandra and Gabriella. He had three great loves in his life: his
 DURSO--Joseph. A writer with the New York Times for 50 years, 1950-2000, died Friday night after a long battle with cancer. He was the author of 14 books, six of which were published in Japanese. He was the recipient of the J.G. Taylor Spink Award of the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 19
 FINNERAN--Gerard Buckley (''Jerry''). A longtime Greenwich resident, died December 29 at the Nathaniel Witherell Nursing Home in Greenwich, CT. He died of complications of Alzheimer's disease, according to his wife of 44 years, Judy Finneran of Stamford. Jerry was born February 16, 1937 in 
 HUDSON--Lt. Col. (Ret.) Howard Penn, APR. January 1, 2005. A descendent of Henry Hudson, Wiliam Penn and Ralph Waldo Emerson. He was founder of Public Relations Quarterly in 1955 and Hudson's Washington Directory, now in its 38th year. He was President of Hudson Associates and Newsletter Cl
 SCHAGRIN--Rabbi Elihu. Age 86. Died December 28, 2004. A Wilmington, DE, native and graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, he was ordained by the Jewish Institute of Religion (Hebrew Union College). For 32 years he served as spiritual leader at Temple Concord in Binghamton, NY, and in 
 SCHULTZ -- Burton Jerome Stanley. Died December 21, Oceanside, CA, after a brief illness. In his 80 years, Burt gave great love and joy to his many friends and family on right and left coast and in between. A longtime New Yorker, he attended Horace Mann, Cornell, and Columbia, worked for th
 SILBERSTEIN -- William. I have lost a dear friend. William Silberstein and I had a friendship of many years. He was a man of keen insight into human nature, and had a deep commitment to his family and friends. I will miss him very much. Irving Ballen       
 Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat who spent his early childhood in internment camps for Japanese-Americans and served for 26 years in the House, died Saturday night at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 63. The cause of death was pneumonia
 Steven Parrino, an artist and musician who imbued abstract work in several mediums with a relentless if oddly energetic punk nihilism, died early Saturday morning in a traffic accident near his home in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. He was 46. Mr. Parrino was returning from a New Year's Eve 
 Arnold Denker, a former United States chess champion who also had some spectacular setbacks at the chess board and later chronicled the lives of some of the game's most colorful characters, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 90. The cause was brain cancer, sa
 Max Lowenthal, a longtime staff editor on the foreign desk of The New York Times, died on Thursday in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said Claire Cox, his wife. He worked as a copy editor for The Binghamton Sun, The Buffalo Evening News and The New
 BAUM--Frederick. Beloved husband of Ilse. Devoted father of Barbara Kessler and Dennis Baum, and father-in-law of Larry and AnneMargaret. Cherished grandfather of Kevin, Terry, Beth and Kim, and great-grandfather of Joshua and Emily. Loving brother of Ruth Goldsmith. Services Wednesday, 11A
 COHEN--Dr. Herbert. The entire Citymeals-on-Wheels family mourns the passing of Dr. Herbert Cohen, a longtime friend of our city's homebound elderly. We will miss this kind, dedicated and intelligent man and extend condolences to his wife Rhoda who shared his compassion for our aged neighbo
 COURLAND--Raphael. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of our member. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 KELBICK--Douglas. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member Douglas Kelbick. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rene, and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, President       
 McCARTY--Maclyn. Mac was a great scientist and a great and good man. We were blessed by our friendship with Marjorie and him, and I am diminished by his death. Rose Dobrof       
 MONAHAN -- Sherwood L. Woody Monahan was not just a banker and a dean among his peers at that. His many traditional interests took him well aside from balance sheets. His very being was embodied in nurturing those special organizations that held an almost mystical meaning for him. He willed
 ROBINSON--Joseph S., January 2, 2005, age 93. Loving companion of Lucille Erdreich amd late wife Belle. Devoted father of Lowell and wife Leila. Loving grandfather of Abigail, Sarah and husband Zohar. Brother of the late Edith, Sylvia and Mortimer. He will be deeply missed by the Robinson, 
 SHEPHERD--Lloyd Albert. The clergy, employees and congregation of Temple Israel of the City of New York mourn the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague, Lloyd Shepherd. We will miss his warm welcome and the exceptional care he provided for us each day. Our condolences to his family and f
 SMOLEN--Seymour Sheldon. Died New Year's Day 2005 at age 93 in Pompano Beach FL, his home since 1972. As a commander of a tank platoon, 70th Tank Battalion, he received serious injuries following the Normandy invasion, yet survived to live a fruitful life with his beloved wife Dorothy who p
 WATT--Stanley B. 74 of Rumson, NJ. Beloved husband of 50 years to Bonnie and father to Stacey and Jason and his wife Juliette. Graduate of Carnegie Mellon University. A member of SAG, AFTRA, and Equity. Avid traveler, photographer, and adventurer will be deeply missed. A memorial gathering 
 WINICK -- Herbert R., 83. Adored husband of sixty years Bernyce. Father extraordinaire of Steven and Georgene Winick, and Laurle Rapoport. Devoted grandfather of Davida and Joshua Menasha, Avi and Aimee Winick, Pami and Dan Solinsky, and Jennie Winick. Cherished great grandfather of Yoni Me
 Frank Kelly Freas, an artist and illustrator whose work included luminous images of amiable aliens beloved by science-fiction fans, the jug-eared visage of Alfred E. Neuman for Mad magazine and the crew shoulder patch for Skylab I astronauts, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He wa
 John F. Lawrence, who led The Los Angeles Times in creating one of the first separate business sections in a general-interest newspaper, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Kathleen Hale, who said he did not smoke. In
 BAUM--Frederick. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Frederick Baum, whose enthusiastic leadership in our Long Island Campaign and as a board member of Selfhelp Community Services enriched and strengthened our eff
 BRUDER--George, on January 3, 2005. Loving husband, father, and grandfather. He is survived by wife Ruth, children, Philip, Donna, and Felicia, and grandchildren. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, January 5, at 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 COHEN--Dr. Herbert G. The New York Academy of Medicine records with sorrow the death of Dr. Herbert G. Cohen, a devoted Fellow of the Academy for 54 years. A physician of broad interests, active intellect and deep compassion, he concerned himself with the welfare of the sick, the affairs of
 FOTIADES--John, MD. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Dr. John Fotiades. Dr. Fotiades was a dedicated physician and generous friend who has been a trusted colleague since he joined our staff in 1998. We will miss him. Bronx VA Medical Staff       
 HAMILTON--Richard. Final Curtain Call at 84, beloved actor of radio, stage, screen and television, died peacefully at home in the Catskills, leaving a long theatrical history. Born in Illinois in 1920, he grew up in California where he attended Pasadena Junior College and the Playhouse, and
 HEALY--John, 72, of Manalapan, N.J. died January 4. He was the Vice President of Federal Taxes for McGraw Hill, retiring in 1987. He is survived by his wife, Veronica C. Maher Healy. Visitation on Wednesday and Thursday 2-4 and 7-9PM at Freeman Manalapan-Marlboro Funeral Home, 344 Rte 9 Nor
 KARLAN--Walter. The Officers & Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member Walter Karlan. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Mickey and to other members of his family. Allen J. Ross, President       
 LEIDNER--Berthold R. Born Vienna Austria 1921. Survived by his beloved wife Peggy, his children Annette, Stephen, Marsha, and Naomi and grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Truly a unique man. Rest in peace.       
 LUHMANN -- Frederick J. (Fred). Age 85. Of Fort Myers, FL. died December 29, 2004. Born in Maspeth, New York, son of the late Henry and Annie Luhmann. Fred was a veteran of World War II. Upon his discharge, he joined the NYPD. Upon his retirement, he went to work for the New York Times and 
 McCARTY--Dr. Maclyn. The New York Academy of Medicine records with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Maclyn McCarty, who was elected to Fellowship in 1948. In his career he exemplified the ideal expression of the physician - scientist, contributing importantly to work in the laboratory of Dr
 SCHILLER--Harry. On January 3, 2005 from multiple injuries from tragic car accident on December 22, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Schiller (December 30, 1992) and the late Santa Schiller (November 9, 2002). Loving father of Dr. Marilyn Schiller, Dorothy and Edgar Oberle. Grandf
 Will Eisner, an innovative comic-book artist who created the Spirit, a hero without superpowers, and the first modern graphic novel, ''A Contract With God,'' died on Monday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he lived. He was 87. His death came after quadruple bypass surgery, said Denis
 Gerard Debreu, the winner of the 1983 Nobel in economic sciences for his research on the balance of supply and demand, died Friday in Paris. Mr. Debreu, who was 83, died of natural causes, according to a statement released yesterday by the University of California, Berkeley, where h
 Dr. Maclyn McCarty, the last surviving member of a Manhattan scientific team that overturned medical dogma in the 1940's and became the first to demonstratethat genes were made of DNA, died on Sunday. He was 93 and lived in New York. His death was announced by Rockefeller University
 COHEN--Herbert G., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute and the Marie-Josee and Henry R. Kravis Center for Cardiovascular Health at the Mount Sinai Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Herbert G. Cohen, M.D., a trusted friend 
 FOTIADES--John. The Department of Medicine at The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the passing of John Fotiades, M.D., M.P.H. Dr. Fotiades completed his M.D. at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in 1991. In 1998 he earned his MPH at Columbia University. Dr. Fotiades was employed at the Bronx 
 GECHT--Dr. Martin L. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Martin L. Gecht. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Francey, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secr
 KELLER--Peter. Age 87, of New Rochelle, New York. Devoted husband of Norma for 59 years, beloved father of Lisa and Nina, father-in-law of Saky Yakas and Richard Adago, grandfather of Benjamin Yakas and Perry and Naomi Adago. Pete, as everyone called him, spent 56 years at the Wall Street J
 LEOTTA--Fred A. On January 4, 2005 of Okeechobee, FL formerly of the Bronx. Survived by his nephew Anthony (Judy) McCarron of Manhattan, cousin Tommy of MA, friend Pat Puglia and many close friends. Mr. Leotta was retired from Mead Westvaco. Funeral Mass with burial following will be held F
 MILLER -- Richard McDer mott. National Sculpture Society (NSS) mourns the loss of renowned sculptor, and friend ''Dick'' Miller, who died at St. Vincent's Hospital on Christmas Day. Known as The Figure Sculptor of SoHo, he became an elected member of the NSS in 1977, and served as President
 PERKEL--Dr. Harold, 86, a distinguished pediatrician from Bayonne, NJ on Tuesday January 4, 2005. He is survived by his wife Helen (nee Lieb) sons John and Robert, daughters - in - law Barbara and Madeline, his sister Maita Fischer and grandchildren Julia and Michael. Services at Temple Bet
 TOBEY--Alton S. Internationally renowned artist Alton S. Tobey died January 4, 2005 after a prolonged illness at age 90. Best known for his historic Smithsonian murals and many others at public institutions worldwide, his LIFE magazine and Golden books illustrations. A modernist painter who
 WALDMAN--Molly. The Board of Directors of the Zamir Choral Foundation extends condolences to its esteemed member, Dennis Waldman; his wife, Abby; his sister, Helen, and the entire family upon the passing of the family matriarch, Molly Waldman. May her memory be a blessing. Matthew Lazar Fou
 Guy Davenport, a many-sided author, painter, teacher and scholar whose work, while ranging from critical essays to translations to poetry, was perhaps most admired for short stories in the modernist tradition of Pound and Joyce, died on Tuesday in Lexington, Ky. He was 77 and lived in Lexin
 John A. Speziale, who helped modernize the Connecticut court system and served as its chief justice in the 1980's, died on Monday at his home in Torrington. He was 82. The cause was cancer, his family said. Justice Speziale, who served in all three branches of state governme
 DURAN--Bob, 66, esteemed painter and widely collected. Guggenheim Fellow and NEA grant recipient. Passed at home after a short illness. Survived by his wife and children. Visitation Sunday. Information: 201-664-0292       
 GILBERT--Lionel. The 92nd Street Y Art Center staff, faculty and students mourn the passing of Lionel Gilbert, artist and long standing painting and drawing instructor. Our hearts and prayers are with him and his family. His service to the Y and to his students will be missed. Michael Golds
 GLYNN--John R. on January 1, 2005 in Redding, CT, after a lengthy struggle with Alzheimer's disease. Longtime resident of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of 61 years (Janet), father (John III, Jim), father-in-law (Carol, Elise), grandfather (John, Janet, Cary) and dear friend to all who knew
 GREENWALD--Emanuel. Dear, dear friend whose constant devotion to patriotism earned him Presidential recognition, I sorrow with Carol and all in your family. Herbert H. Hirschhorn       
 HAYDEN--Joseph Michael. Died December 24, 2004, age 70, after a short illness. Much loved brother of Mary and Seamus and uncle of Cora, Paul, Sheamus, Michael, Kathleen and Siobhan. Worked for The New York Times for 36 years. ''A great supervisor who led his staff by example and always had 
 HOCHMAN--Henry. The entire Continuum Health Partners family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Henry Hochman, beloved father of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Steven Hochman, Esq., a member of the Continuum Board of Trustees. Steve's parents' generous support of Beth Israel w
 KELLER--Deane G. (64), of Marlborough, CT died suddenly on January 4, 2005. He was the son of Deane and Katherine Hall Keller. He earned a B.A. from Yale University, his M.A. from St. Joseph College in West Hartford, CT and studied in Florence, Italy. Deane was a professor at the Lyme Acade
 LORD--James Couper, Jr., 55. Died suddenly of a heart attack on January 5, 2004 in Southampton. Son of Barbara Hartley Lord and the late J. Couper Lord, brother of Lisa L. Gillespie, Barbara L. Edwards, and the late Ruth Lord. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Southampton Hospital Region
 McCARTY -- Maclyn. The Rockefeller University community mourns with deep sadness the loss of our beloved colleague and friend, Maclyn McCarty, an eminent physician - scientist who served the university with enormous distinction for sixtythree years. A member of the U.S. National Academy of 
 SEGAL--John B., of Larchmont, NY, and Westport, MA, beloved husband for 50 years of Janet Z. Segal, Chief Operating Officer of Four Winds Hospital, Katonah, NY, died on January 6, 2005 of melanoma. He was 76 years old. He was a cherished father, adored uncle, beloved grandfather, and a joyf
 SENGER--Henry C. Jr., of Ft. Lee and Williamstown, MA, died January 5, 2005. Beloved husband of Laurel (nee Davis), and the late Teresa, who passed away in 1986. Loving father of Mary and husband Bob Monroe of NC, Henry III and wife Ruddy Senger of Saddle River; Tressa Senger of Hawthorne, 
 SITT--Eddie M. The entire Magen David Yeshivah family are deeply saddened by the loss of our highly respected past president and cherished friend, Eddie M. Sitt. He will be remembered for his support, leadership, perseverance and tireless efforts on behalf of Magen David Yeshivah. We all gr
 STEEN--Dr. Philip M., 93, on January 5, 2005. Prominent dentist and specialist. He is survived by his beloved wife of 59 years, Suzy, children Deborah, Peter, Tony, grandson Jordan. Father-in-law of Maryann Spero-Steen and Rabbi Roger Ross. Devoted friend of Myrna Leichter. Services Tuesday
 TILNEY--Robert W., Jr., M.D. 89, died peacefully at home in Far Hills, NJ on January 6, 2005. Dr. Tilney practiced general and specialized in head and neck surgery at Morristown Memorial Hospital for 40 years. He was a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons serving as the treasurer and 
 George R. Wackenhut, a former F.B.I. agent who built the Wackenhut Corporation into an international security firm that promoted the use of private guards at prisons, airports and nuclear power plants, died on Dec. 31 at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 85. The cause was heart fa
 COOLIDGE--T. Jefferson, of Marblehead, MA, age 72, died unexpectedly on January 5, 2005 in his home. Beloved husband of Gloria (Geary) Coolidge. Brother of J. Linzee Coolidge of Gloucester, MA, and Catherine Coolidge Lastavica of Manchester-by-theSea, MA. Stepfather of Jason Dyett of Wash.,
 DENEROFF--Robert S. A gentle man, scholar, friend, and mentor, he lived life well. His warmth, generosity and good humor brightened our lives. He is irreplaceable to Diane and Joseph, and also to us. Arthur and Paula, Bob, Harry and Laurel, Mark and Raul       
 KOSMIN--Marvin. On Jan. 6, 2005. Cherished husband of Alice. Beloved friend of many, many. Graveside service Monday, January 10, 11 A.M. Woodlawn Cemetery, Bx, NY. KOSMIN--Marvin. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished membe
 LORD--J. Couper Jr. The Board of Directors and membership of the Bathing Corporation express great sadness at the recent passing of our most worthy and esteemed Director and extend our deepest sympathy to his mother, Barbara, and his family.       
 SEGAL--John B., of Larchmont, NY, and Westport, MA, beloved husband for 50 years of Janet Z. Segal, Chief Operating Officer of Four Winds Hospital, Katonah, NY, died on January 6, 2005 of melanoma. He was 76 years old. He was a cherished father, adored uncle, beloved grandfather, and a joyf
 WALLER--Herbert, on January 6, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Sandie Waller. Beloved father of Dr. Scott Waller, Keith Waller, and Donna Waller-Maggio. Beloved father-in-law of Lisa DreznickWaller, Esq., Robin WallachWaller, and Jerry Maggio. Beloved Papa to Courtney and Benjamin, and Po
 ZUCKERWISE--Jack, passed away January 6, 2005. He was 86 years old. Former president of Liberty Brass, devoted husband of the late Laura, beloved father of David (Babby), Peter (Leslie) and Penny (Barbra). Loving great grandfather of Randi (Mark) Madrid, Lena, Laura, Lisa and Gail. Also sur
 Richard McDermott Miller, a New York sculptor whose lifelike nudes have been exhibited internationally and are in private and museum collections around the country, died on Dec. 25 in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife
 Count Lennart Bernadotte, who gave up his royal Swedish title to marry a commoner but gained an Edenic island that he built into a tourist attraction, died on Dec. 21 on Mainau, the island he had gardened in Lake Constance, Germany, for over half a century. He was 95. The death was 
 CLARKE--Richard William. Stage, film and television actor died peacefully on January 7, 2005. Born in England and resident of New York City and Greenport, LI. He was known as ''Bill'' to his loving family. He will be missed by his friends and relatives in England, Canada, France, California
 COOLIDGE--T. Jefferson, of Marblehead, MA, age 72, died unexpectedly on January 5, 2005 in his home. Beloved husband of Gloria (Geary) Coolidge. Brother of J. Linzee Coolidge of Gloucester, MA, and Catherine Coolidge Lastavica of Manchester-by-theSea, MA. Stepfather of Jason Dyett of Wash.,
 CUTHBERT--William Rodger, son of Helen Rodger and Lawrence F. Cuthbert, born April 21, 1919 in Ogdensburg, NY, died in his home in Naples, FL at 12:40 AM, December 20, 2004. Bill attended Deerfield Academy ('38) & Kenyon College ('42). Among his best memories were ''busting the polo ponies'
 DiPASQUALE--Dr. Nicholas. The United Cerebral Palsy of New York City community mourns with sadness the loss of our beloved colleague and friend, Nick DiPasquale. Nick made a tremendous contribution to UCP/NYC as Assistant Director of our Brooklyn Children's Program and, most recently, as Di
 GLYNN--John R. on January 1, 2005 in Redding, CT, after a lengthy struggle with Alzheimer's disease. Longtime resident of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of 61 years (Janet), father (John III, Jim), father-in-law (Carol, Elise), grandfather (John, Janet, Cary) and dear friend to all who knew
 GOODFIELD--Alan. December 30th. Beloved husband of Helen. Adoring father of Lisa Heyman (deceased), Suzanne Lynn, Karen Michele, Nancy and Jeff Davis. Loving grandfather of Casey, Elena, Gaylen, Grace and Luka. Devoted brother of Charles and Evelyn Goodfield and the late Sheila Fischer. A g
 GUZMAN - FORBES -- Robert. 75. Passed away Friday, December 10, 2004 in Cocoa Beach, FL. Born in New York City and raised in New Rochelle, NY, he moved to Cocoa Beach from Simsbury, CT in 1996. He was a graduate of the Valley Forge Military Academy and after serving four years in the United
 KELLER--Deane G. (64), of Marlborough, CT died suddenly on January 4, 2005. He was the son of Deane and Katherine Hall Keller. He earned a B.A. from Yale University, his M.A. from St. Joseph College in West Hartford, CT and studied in Florence, Italy. Deane was a professor at the Lyme Acade
 KOSMIN--Marvin. On Jan. 6, 2005. Cherished husband of Alice. Beloved friend of many, many. Graveside service Monday, January 10, 11 A.M. Woodlawn Cemetery, Bx, NY. KOSMIN--Marvin. A new star shines in the heavens. God grant His peace to our dear friend. We will miss you. David, Loui
 KOVEN--Harold. To know him was to love him. We will miss you, rest in peace. Linda and Lloyd Taub       
 MANDELA--Makgatho. The American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) joins the Mandela family and the people of South Africa in mourning the passing of Makgatho Mandela, 54, who died of AIDS-related illness in Johannesburg on Thursday. Though theirs is an enormous loss, the Mandela family d
 MILLIGAN--James M. Of Manhattan, NY, passed away suddenly on January 7, 2005. Loving husband of Karen Blank, Dean of Studies at Barnard College, and devoted father of Ned Milligan of whom he was so proud, mentor, model and friend to multitudes. He served as Dean of Admissions at Columbia La
 RAIZES--Milton and Audree. Of Naples, FL, formerly of Mason City, IA, died January 2 and January 7, 2005 respectively, Milton at the age of 88 and Audree at the age of 86. They celebrated their 65th wedding anniversary on December 31. They leave behind their loving son, Dr. Gary, and his wi
 SADOFF--Larry M., a highly regarded Promotions Director and Marketing Consultant in the sports and entertainment industry, died November 21, 2004 at Hospice of the Valley-Maricopa in Phoenix, AZ, following a long and courageous battle with emphysema. He was 75. Mr. Sadoff enjoyed a career i
 SAKS--Alan. Alan Saks, businessman, social activist and advocate of urban Chicago, died January 4, 2005 at age 77. He is survived by his wife of fifty years, Esther Shava; daughters, Ruth, Beth (son-inlaw Scott Fithian), Jane (partner, Lynette Jackson), and Naomi; grandchildren, Sam and Sar
 SCHUSTER -- Richard. The Board of Trustees, President and Faculty of the New York College of Podiatric Medicine note with sadness the passing of Richard O. Schuster, DPM, former Acting Dean and President, Chairman of Orthopedics and member of the Board, and extend their deepest sympathy to 
 SEGAL--John B., of Larchmont, NY, and Westport, MA, beloved husband for 50 years of Janet Z. Segal, Chief Operating Officer of Four Winds Hospital, Katonah, NY, died on January 6, 2005 of melanoma. He was 76 years old. He was a cherished father, adored uncle, beloved grandfather, and a joyf
 SINGER--Richard A., 55, on December 29, 2004. Beloved husband of Cynthia Malmuth Singer. Survived by mother, Betty Singer, brother, Harry Singer, granddaughter, Francesca Merians. Graduate of Birch Wathen and City College of New York. He was a financial investor. Rick's wit, wisdom and crea
 SITT--Eddie M. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Eddie M. Sitt, whose historic and lifelong dedication to our Syrian Sephardic Campaign strengthened the Jewish community and set a standard of leadership that liv
 TODD--George J. It is with a deep sense of sadness that the entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in noting the passing of George J. Todd, father of our dear colleague and friend, George J. Todd, MD, Ch
 ZIEFERT--George. Born November 19, 1918. Loved husband of Edith, father of Leonard and Marjorie (Chuck), grandfather of Matt, Adam and Jonas, died January 7, 2005. He is remembered as a kind and compassionate man. Private graveside service to be held. For more information call 734-717-7300.
 ZIMRING--Neil Howard. 68, son of Charles Zimring and Barbara Loring was born on August 31, 1936, in New York. He received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University in 1958 and served as a sergeant with the Military Police in the U.S. Army. Mr. Zimring was a managing director and part
 ZUCKERWISE--Jack, passed away January 6, 2005. He was 86 years old. Former president of Liberty Brass, devoted husband of the late Laura, beloved father of David (Babby), Peter (Leslie) and Penny (Barbra). Loving grandfather of Randi (Mark) Madrid, Lena, Laura, Lisa and Gail. Also survived 
 RESSNER--John W. Oct. 5, 1961--Jan. 9, 2003. Beloved son. He reached for the stars. Natalie and Michae       
 H. Anthony Williamson, a scholar in human geography, who developed innovative techniques to help the indigenous inhabitants of Labrador and the Canadian Arctic press land claims and express their concerns to the government, died on Dec. 29 in St. John's, Newfoundland. He was 69. The
 Donald Pederson, a computer scientist who oversaw the creation of a widely used tool for the design of electronic circuits, died on Dec. 25 in Concord, Calif. He was 79. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Karen Pederson. Designers of computer chips need to kno
 George Fechtig Baughman, founding president of the experimental New College of Florida, died on Dec. 24 in Gainesville, Fla. He was 89. His death was announced by Gordon E. Michalson Jr., the college's current president. Mr. Baughman, a former treasurer of New York Universit
 BOYERS--Allan. Age 74, beloved husband of Constance Mayer Boyers, cherished father of Brian Boyers and Rand Boyers Peppas, loving grandfather of Philip, Eric, James, Thomas and Gianna, died on January 7, of leukemia. ''The Coach,'' as he was affectionately known, was a legend at The Dalton 
 CHARNEY--Sol, Ed.D. Of Yonkers, NY, died on January 8, 2005, at the age of 79 after a long illness. Devoted husband of the late Maxine Charney. Beloved father of Dr. Richard Charney of Briarcliff Manor, NY, Dr. Robert Charney of Springfield, NJ, and father-in-law of Stacy. Cherished grandfa
 CLARKE--Richard William. Stage, film and television actor died peacefully on January 7, 2005. Born in England and resident of New York City and Greenport, LI. He was known as ''Bill'' to his loving family. He will be missed by his friends and relatives in England, Canada, France, California
 FRELINGHUYSEN -- Joseph Sherman. Died peacefully on January 8, 2005, at age 92; sixteen days after his late wife of 67 years, Emily Lawrance Frelinghuysen. He is survived by his four children, Margaret F. Kurzman, Joseph S. Frelinghuysen Jr., Susan F. van Roijen, Barbara F. Israel, ten gran
 GREENFIELD -- Gordon Kraus. Died at the age of 89 on January 7, 2005, after a short illness at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Survived by wife of nearly 60 years, Harriet Copelin Greenfield; his children, Juliet Six, Gordon K. Greenfield, Jr., Faith Lewis, Hope Greenfield and James Gre
 MARKS--Louis. 82. Devoted husband of the late Pearl. Loving father of Ellen and the late Arthur Lacher and Rhonda and Michael Gribetz, Zadie to Rebecca and Jonas, Jason and Rachel, Eric and Carin, Seth and Orit and Jonathan, great-Zadie to Nina, Arthur, Ryan, Tali and Alexa, brother to Meye
 MICHAELOFF--Norman. On January 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of Andrew. Brother of Martin and Steven. Also survived by his loving family. Services Tuesday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 NEILSON--David. Age 81. Of Brewster, NY. Beloved brother of Philip B. Neilson; father of Deborah Ward and Suzanne Neilson; step-father of Michelle Ritzler; beloved husband of Muriel. Alumnus of Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken; Air force veteran of WWII; co-owner of Adler and Neil
 RUSSIAN--Jeffrey Stephen. 50. Vice President for Finance and Planning at The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Died after a brief battle with lung cancer on January 7, 2005, at his home in Manhattan, surrounded by family and friends. He is survived by his wife Elisabeth Ames; son Zachary; father 
 R. Bruce McGill, an educator who led the development of two assessment tests widely used by private schools, died on Jan. 1 in Boston. He was 84 and lived in Westwood, Mass. The cause was heart failure, said his son Michael V. McGill, the schools superintendent in Scarsdale, N.Y.   
 ANISANSEL--Arthur Alfred, of Jupiter, FL and Hague, NY, died January 9, 2005 at the age of 92. A man of uncommon intelligence and integrity who dealt with the physical limitations in his later life with grace and valor. Devoted husband of 60 years to his beloved late wife Dorothy. He is sur
 BAYLOS--Eugene. Born November 16, 1906, died peacefully today, January 10, 2005. Devoted husband of Cyrile and loving uncle. Longtime member of the Friars Club and known as ''the Comedian's Comedian.'' Services Tuesday, 2 P.M., at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. 
 BLOCH--Gerald Constant. Retired President of Bloch Bros. Paper Co. Inc., he died on January 9th at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He succumbed to multiple myeloma after a gallant struggle of five years. Born in Brooklyn, NY on May 30, 1925, Mr. Bloch was graduated from the Poly Prep S
 BLYN--Arthur E. Died on January 8, 2005. Much beloved husband of 61 years of Hilda. Much beloved father of Kathy Blyn & the late Richard Blyn. Much beloved father-inlaw of Joseph Holtz. Adored grandfather of Sarah and David. Chairman of American Labor Party, 18th AD Brooklyn. Judge of the C
 BOYERS--Allan. The Daniel Heumann Fund for Spinal Cord Research extends our deepest condolences to Connie and the Boyers family on the passing of our dear friend Allan. His devotion to our cause and his enduring friendship will last forever. The Daniel Heumann Fund BOYERS--Allan. A 
 COLM--Werner. On January 3, 2005 in his 97th year. Predeceased by his wife Helen. He is survived by his niece Hella R. Adler of Philadelphia. Born in Germany, he lived for many years in Shanghi, moving to New York where he was a metal trader until his retirement. Full of energy until his de
 FINFER--Milton G. Formerly of Rockville Centre died on Sunday, January 9, 2005 in Boca Raton, FL at age 89. He is survived by his loving wife Carolyn of Melville and two sons, Lawrence of Washington, D.C. and Lewis of Dorchester, MA, two stepsons Jonathan of Brookline, MA and Drew of Newton
 FRELINGHUYSEN -- Joseph Sherman. Died peacefully on January 8, 2005, at age 92; sixteen days after his late wife of 67 years, Emily Lawrance Frelinghuysen. He is survived by his four children, Margaret F. Kurzman, Joseph S. Frelinghuysen Jr., Susan F. van Roijen, Barbara F. Israel, ten gran
 GREENFIELD -- Gordon Kraus. Died at the age of 89 on January 7, 2005, after a short illness at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Survived by wife of nearly 60 years, Harriet Copelin Greenfield; his children, Juliet Six, Gordon K. Greenfield, Jr., Faith Lewis, Hope Greenfield and James Gre
 HEILBRONER--Robert L., 85, on January 5th, 2005 in NYC after a long illness. Author, teacher, artist. Husband of Shirley, father of David and Peter, grandfather of Samuel, Henry, Quentin and Katrina. Beloved by his friends and family, remembered by all who read his work. Memorial service, N
 LIZZI--Frederic L. EngScD. Research Director of Biomedical Engineering Laboratory at Riverside Research Institute; Adjunct Professor of Ophthalmology (Ophthalmic Physics) at Weill Medical College of Cornell University, died on Saturday, January 8th, 2005. He is survived by his wife Mary, hi
 MICHAELOFF--Norman. On January 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of Andrew. Brother of Martin and Steven. Also survived by his loving family. Services Tuesday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 MILLIGAN --James M. Dean David Schizer and the students, faculty and staff of Columbia Law School mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague, Dean of Admissions James M. Milligan. Jim was an integral part of our community for 25 years. He viewed our students as his children, rememberi
 ROY--Malcolm D. 90, of Liverpool, entered into rest Sunday. He was a former resident of Ossining, NY where he had lived for 60 years. Malcolm was an attorney and Partner of Roy & Roy Law Firm in Irvington, NY. Malcolm was predeceased by his wife of 60 years, Ellen Wood Roy, in 2001, and two
 SILVER--Dr. George A. Died at home on January 7, 2005 at age 91. He is survived by his beloved wife of 68 years, Mitzi; three children James, Jane & Judith Barrett; brother Paul; sister Mildred Granatir; five grandchildren; four great grandchildren. He spent his life as physician, scholar a
 SITT--Eddie M. The Sephardic Food Fund mourns with sadness and sorrow the passing of Eddie M. Sitt, the father of our founder, president, and friend, David Sitt. Our condolences are extended to Mrs. Gloria Sitt and her children, Rochelle, Morris, Jeffrey, David and their families, as well a
 STREAM--Arnold Crager. Of Santa Fe, NM; formerly of NYC. We are profoundly saddened over the loss of Arnold. Condolences to his loving wife Barbara and son Randy. His many friends in Santa Fe       
 THOMAS--Michel. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Michel Thomas, a friend of the League, a Holocaust survivor, a member of the French Resistance, and a liberator at Dachau. For his service as a member of U.S. Counter-Intelligence during World War II, he was awarded the Silver 
 TODD--George J., Sr. The Center for Discovery would like to extend its condolences, sympathy and a hand in friendship to Dr. George J. Todd, Jr. on the death of his father. Dr. Todd and his family are dear friends of The Center and we are deeply saddened by the passing of George J. Todd, Sr
 WOOLVERTON--William H., Jr., on January 6, 2005. Much loved father of William III, Frederick, Benjamin & Celia, brother of the Rev. John F. Woolverton, and grandfather of Zander, Alice, Peter, Drew, Maggie and Kate. Devoted to his former wife Ethel and her family. Attended Choate and Yale. 
 TEITLER--Mitchell. Dearly beloved by his wife, Samantha. We miss you dearly. Your smile, your laugh bring memories every day. Our hearts are broken but your spirit lives with us. You're still the man. Nina, Erin and Larr       
 Sheldon Hoard Kinney, a highly decorated rear admiral who commanded fighting vessels in three wars and later trained future seafarers at the State University of New York Maritime College and at the World Maritime University in Sweden, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 86.
 Arthur Rosenblatt, an architect who had a large hand in reshaping the Metropolitan Museum of Art and then helped give form to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, died Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The c
 James Forman, a civil rights pioneer who brought a fiercely revolutionary vision and masterly organizational skills to virtually every major civil rights battleground in the 1960's, died on Monday at a hospice in Washington. He was 76. The cause was colon cancer, his son Chaka Esmon
 ANISANSEL--Arthur Alfred, of Jupiter, FL and Hague, NY, died January 9, 2005 at the age of 92. A man of uncommon intelligence and integrity who dealt with the physical limitations in his later life with grace and valor. Devoted husband of 60 years to his beloved late wife Dorothy. He is sur
 BLOCH--Gerald C. And the tear that we shed, though in secret it rolls, shall long keep his memory green in our souls.'' With deepest love to all the family. Mildred       
 COLM--Werner. Our beloved uncle died on January 3, 2005, at age 97 years. For the past six years we were fortunate enough to develop a close relationship with our uncle Werner and be pleasantly affected by his strong will, high intelligence, tremendous knowledge and especially his kindness 
 CROSSAN--William D. Born Glasgow, Scotland February 7, 1936, passed away NYC January 10, 2005. Art director and cartoonist. Much loved husband of Lesley for 42 years. Father extraordinaire of Fiona. A wonderful man who will missed by so many all around the world. Private cremation will be f
 CUMMINS--F. Mitchell, M.D., F.A.C.R., died on January 9, age 83. He was Clinical Professor of Radiology, The Weill College of Medicine Cornell University and Emeritus Attending Radiologist, the New York Presbyterian Hospital. His loving and beloved wife, Rosamond Kane Cummins, M.D., a Pedia
 FERNBERG -- Laurence S. The members of Congregation B'nai Yisrael are saddened by the death of our friend Laurence Fernberg. We share our sadness with his wife Linda and his children Jacob and Katie. We will miss him. Joel Dworetzky, President Rabbi Douglas E. Krantz Rabbi Seth M. Limmer   
 HAY--Nicholas Romeyn Taylor, 82, of Niantic, CT died on January 10, 2005. He was the widower of Ann Hay. He is survived by his son Andrew Wellington Hay and his wife Nina of New York, NY, his brother Wellington Hay and his wife Mia of New Canaan, CT, his grandchildren Wellington and Nichola
 HEILBRONER--Robert L., 85, on January 5th, 2005 in NYC after a long illness. Author, teacher, artist. Husband of Shirley, father of David and Peter, grandfather of Samuel, Henry, Quentin and Katrina. Beloved by his friends and family, remembered by all who read his work. Memorial service, N
 KREISLER--Marshall. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished congregant and distinguished member of our Music Committee, Marshall Kreisler. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. Rabbi D
 PUNT--William R. The Grand Lodge of Free & Accepted Masons of the State of New York, records with profound sorrow the passing of The Most Worshipful William R. Punt, Senior Past Grand Master and Permanent Member of the Grand Lodge on Friday, January 7, 2005. He died peacefully at the age of
 ROSENBLATT--Arthur I. On January 10, 2005. Noted architect, former Holocaust Museum director. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Services Friday, 3:15 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave. ROSENBLATT--Arthur. The Metropolitan Historic Structures Association mo
 SILVER--Dr. George A. Died at home on January 7, 2005 at age 91. He is survived by his beloved wife of 68 years, Mitzi; three children James, Jane & Judith Barrett; brother Paul; sister Mildred Granatir; five grandchildren; four great grandchildren. He spent his life as physician, scholar a
 THOMAS--William C., Jr., of Suffern, NY, formerly of Glen Rock, NJ, Friday, December 31, 2004. Husband of the late Jean Thomas (2001). Loving father of Meg & her husband Jim Wiviott of Morristown and Julia and her husband Harry Ward of New Hampshire. He is also survived by his brothers, Car
 TODD--George J., Sr. The Center for Discovery would like to extend its condolences, sympathy and a hand in friendship to Dr. George J. Todd, Jr. on the death of his father. Dr. Todd and his family are dear friends of The Center and we are deeply saddened by the passing of George J. Todd, Sr
 WEIMER--Paul K. Dr. Paul K. Weimer, a contributor to the development of television technology, died on January 6 in Princeton, NJ at the age of 90. In 1942 he joined the RCA laboratory facility in Princeton where he worked until retirement in 1981. His first assignment, in collaboration wit
 Robert L. Heilbroner, an economist and writer of lively and provocative books that inspired generations of students with the drama of how the world earns, or fails to earn, its living -- books that made him one of his profession's all-time best-selling authors -- died on Jan. 4 in Manhattan
 Gordon K. Greenfield, whose QTV brand of teleprompters is used by the White House and in thousands of TV newsrooms, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Greenfield, a veteran business executive, bough
 Joseph S. Frelinghuysen, whose memoir, ''Passages to Freedom,'' chronicled his escape from a prison camp in Italy during World War II, died on Saturday in Morristown, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Far Hills, N.J. The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter Barbara F. Israel. Mr
 ADAM--Jules (Jim). Our dear friend and colleague, the countless hours he spent towards the betterment of our community as well as our wonderful conversations, will be deeply missed. Our sympathy goes out to his wife Rosalind and his children Cheryl and Rob and Marc & Nadine. The Woodlands  
 BENSON--Guy Kenneth. Died peacefully on January 4, 2005 at age 84. He lived for 46 years in the Hudson River town of Dobbs Ferry, NY. There he and his wife, Philippa Day of Sydney, Australia raised their three children. He attended Lawrenceville School and Yale College, served in the Army i
 BLYN--Arthur. Hospital Audiences, Inc (HAI), mourns the passing of Arthur Blyn. A longtime Chairman of HAI's Board of Directors, his vision has brought joy into the lives of millions of shut-ins for the past three decades.       
 COLM--Werner E. We mourn the loss of a dear and special friend whose outstretched hand of kindness helped to heal so many. A man of quiet modesty, his life experiences made him understand the true significance of the State of Israel and the importance of providing its people with the utmost
 CROCKER--Arthur Masten. 95, died in Naples, FL, January 11. Devoted husband of Barbara S. Crocker, beloved father of Chester Arthur Crocker & Elizabeth Crocker O'Hara, grandfather of Bathsheba, Karena, Rebecca, Jennifer, Jeffrey, Jonathan, and Christopher. Great grandnephew of Chester Alan 
 HEILBRONER--Robert L., 85, on January 5th, 2005 in NYC after a long illness. Author, teacher, artist. Husband of Shirley, father of David and Peter, grandfather of Samuel, Henry, Quentin and Katrina. Beloved by his friends and family, remembered by all who read his work. Memorial service, N
 JONES--Alonzo. Died on January 12, 2005. He was an employee of the The New York Times for over 30 years. He is survived by his wife Doloris Jones, and two children Lois and Renee Jones, nine grandchildren & three great-grandchildren. He was rated number one truck driver for the New York Tim
 KAYMAN--Samuel Charles, 55, passed away on January 9, 2005, six weeks after diagnosis with lung cancer. He was a research biologist, dedicated to unraveling the mechanisms that sustain HIV and other deadly viruses. He is survived by his spouse, Deborah Judith, and his son, Noah Gabriel, as 
 LIZZI--Frederic L. The people of Riverside Research Institute mourn the death of Dr. Fred Lizzi, Research Director of the Biomedical Engineering Laboratories. The loss of Fred is a great loss to society and to the Institute. All of us shall miss him.       
 MORREL--Melvin, Dr. With sorrow we extend our condolences to Harriet, Howie, Beth, Owen and Abbey. We will miss him deeply. From the Gontza Meshpucha Carole Sehres Murray Fleischman Stacey, Alan, Lindsay, Samantha, Sydney Cowen       
 ROBERTSON--Alvin. January 11, 2005. Survivors include his wife Joan, and Neil, Laura, Kennah, Tracey, Christopher Skyler and Jennifer.       
 ROSENBERG--Barry, was a remarkable friend. He always found the good in people and could sense when another was in need; he had the energy and right words to help. He sincerely believed anything was possible if people could reason together. Barry and Madge's love for each other and their chi
 ROSENBLATT--Arthur. The Auschwitz Jewish Center Foundation mourns the loss of our colleague and Board member, Arthur Rosenblatt. Arthur was a scholar, renowned and immensely talented architect and friend. He was part of AJCF from its inception and was critical to the restoration of the last
 SOFFES--Eliot. Age 51, died suddenly on January 11, 2005. A devoted husband to Dr. Diane Goldkopf and loving father to his children, Jake and Sarah. His creative talent brought him respect in the architectural community. He will be greatly missed by his business associates, friends and fami
 SOLL--George Lawrence, of Scarsdale, New York, on January 12, 2005. Beloved husband of Arleen. Loving father of Patricia. Devoted Poppop of Lauren & Jeremy. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, 12 noon, at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, New York 10552
 Richard W. Reuter, who helped shape the country's foreign relief efforts as an executive at CARE USA and then at the Food for Peace program, died last Friday in Lake Bluff, Ill. He was 86. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. Mr. Reuter (pronounced rooter) gained e
 S. Paul Ehrlich, an epidemiologist and public health officer who served as acting surgeon general during a long organizational reshuffling under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford, died on Jan. 6 in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 72. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. 
 Achille Maramotti, a leading fashion entrepreneur in postwar Italy who founded the clothing giant Max Mara then extended his prodigious energies to banking and building a collection of contemporary art, died on Wednesday at his home in Albinea, Italy. He was 78. His death was confir
 Jay Schulberg, the advertising executive who made milk hip by putting creamy mustaches on the famous and beautiful, died in Doylestown, Pa., on Jan. 12. He was 65, and until recently was a resident of Solebury, Pa. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Kathryn, who survive
 Jimmy Griffin, a founder of the soft-rock group Bread who helped write the Oscar-winning song ''For All We Know,'' died on Tuesday at his home in the Nashville suburb of Franklin, Tenn. He was 61. The cause was complications of cancer, family members told Country Music Television.  
 GAON--Brian. Friend and teammate. One of the really ''good guys.'' Always there with the practical jokes, infectious laugh, secret smile, and open heart. God finally has a left wing to put the puck in the net. Hopefully the ''Rocket'' will get him to back-check. You've left a hole in our he
 GRUMET--Leonard. On January 13, 2005. Of Wantagh/ Massapequa, LI. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, uncle and friend. Services Sunday, 10 AM, at Temple Sinai, 425 Roslyn Rd, Roslyn Heights, Long Island. GRUMET--Leonard. It is with sadness that we note Len's passing. He put up a 
 MORREL--Dr. Melvin. We mourn the loss of this respected and loving man who died on January 11, 2005 at the age of 81. Dr. Morrel practiced medicine in Amityville for over 50 years. He was a member of the medical executive board, president of the hospital staff, and chief of family medicine 
 ROSENBERG--Barry. We will miss Barry. Our thoughts are with his family at this time of loss. Manhattan Community Board 7       
 ROSENBLATT--Arthur. The Board of Trustees, faculty and staff of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art and the members of The Cooper Union Alumni Association mourn the passing of our 1952 Architecture alumnus and dear friend Arthur Rosenblatt. His service on The Cooper Unio
 SOMMER--Gregg. Suddenly at age 52, on January 11, 2005. Loving son of Terry and Arty; brother of Meryl and Van, uncle of Brette and Drew, and Kirk, sweetheart to Diane. The kindest of heart, truest of friend, and most fun loving of all! Captain Avalanche (aka Bronco Gregg) will always be in
 WASHBURN--George 90, died January 3, 2005 after a long fight with Alzheimer's. Beloved husband for 57 years of Anne Gibson Clark Washburn, and loving father of Constance Clark Washburn of Lagunitas, CA, and Lynn Washburn Hanke of New York. He leaves five grandchildren: Andrew and William Ca
 Frank E. Vandiver, a noted military historian, particularly of the Civil War era, died on Jan. 7 at his home in College Station, Tex., where he was president emeritus of Texas A&M University. He was 79. Dr. Vandiver's death was announced by the university. He had been ill with heart
 Gene Baylos, a hard-working nightclub comic of the old school whose gags were legend among fellow comedians, died on Monday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 98 and a Manhattan resident. His death was reported by his niece, Perry Matsa. Like countless comedians of 
 ANNENBERG--Norman. Died January 8, 2005, aged 92. Harvard Law '35, Bronze Star hero, adored companion of Bernice Silverman, beloved friend, mentor and wise counselor to colleagues and clients alike. Till the end he was an active lawyer, world traveler, exceptional dancer and violinist in th
 BOROWIK--Thomas G. Died January 14, 2005 after a battle with cancer. He was born on June 29, 1929 in Warsaw, Poland. He came to America in 1941, he attended Yale, served in the military from 1950-52. He became a successful business owner and philanthropist. He is survived by his sister Joan
 LEVY--Edgar Charles. He will be sorely missed by all who knew and loved him. Loving brother of Francine and Sandy Kalb. Adored uncle to Bonnie and Gary Kalb and Shoshanna and Robert Smith and great-uncle to Justin Smith, Heather Kalb and Shannon Kalb. We love you, uncle Ed.       
 OSZMANSKI--Warren G., 66, died suddenly December 16. Graduate of Montclair State College. Formerly an executive of Westvaco Corp. Retired in 2003 as VP from Warrior Express, a company he co-founded. Survived by his wife Geraldine, father of Kent and Paige, step-father of James, Deirdre and 
 SCHULBERG -- Jay. The Board of Directors, Overseers and staff of the International Rescue Committee are saddened by the death of Jay Schulberg, a valued member of our board since 1971. Jay, who was among the most accomplished advertising executives of his generation, was deeply committed to
 ANNENBERG--Norman. Died January 8, 2005, aged 92. Harvard Law '35, Bronze Star hero, adored companion of Bernice Silverman, beloved friend, mentor and wise counselor to colleagues and clients alike. Till the end he was an active lawyer, world traveler, exceptional dancer and violinist in th
 ARBOLINO--Jack Nicholas, a pioneer in the field of adult education, died of natural causes on January 7th. He was 85 years old. A longtime resident of Harrington Park, New Jersey, he was born on January 12th, 1919 in New York City. He grew up in the Woodlawn section of the Bronx and graduat
 BLUMENFELD--Nathan W. On January 14, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Florence. Devoted father of Judge Joel Blumenfeld and his wife Vicki, and Lenore Kaplan and her husband Wayne. Adored grandfather of Amy and Dan, Josh and Michelle. His wit, wisdom and charm will remain with us forever. 
 BODDIGER--George C. The Board of Directors, Volunteers and Staff of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society express deep sorrow on the passing of George C. Boddiger who died January 10, at the age of 87. Mr Boddiger was a member of the Society's National Board of Directors from 1966 to 2001
 BOROWIK--Thomas G. Died January 14, 2005 after a battle with cancer. He was born on June 29, 1929 in Warsaw, Poland. He came to America in 1941, he attended Yale, served in the military from 1950-52. He became a successful business owner and philanthropist. He is survived by his sister Joan
 CHARNE--David. Performing trivia master, magician, clown, novelist, screenwriter, juggler, comedian, mime, actor, director, gourmet and chef--and in his spare time practicing attorney, died at home on January 6, 2005, at the age of 51. Go to www.yomonti.com for information about memorial se
 CROCKER--Arthur Masten. The Board and Staff of Environmental Advocates of New York mourn the passing of our friend and former Director, Arthur Crocker. A founding member of Environmental Advocates, Arthur will be remembered always as a visionary environmentalist and a passionate and effecti
 de CORDOVA--Eustace, Jr. Died January 7, 2005 of multiple complications. Was a member of the New York Stock Exchange and Racquet and Tennis Club of New York. Survived by his wife Aimee de Cordova, and his brother Arthur de Cordova & family.       
 FINN--Hyman. Beloved husband, father, brother and zayde age 72. Deeply mourned by all fortunate enough to know this gentle, kind and decent human being leaving us much too soon. Survived by beloved wife Kati, daughter Judy, son-in-law Tim and grandson Gabriel. Loving brother of Isaac and Be
 FRYE--Roland Mushat. Dr. Frye, of Strafford, PA, died January 13, 2005, at age 83. Also resided in Princeton NJ, Washington DC, Atlanta GA, and Birmingham, AL. Schelling Professor Emeritus of English Literature, University of Pennsylvania. Survived by his wife of 58 years Jean Elbert Frye, 
 GAON--Brian. In loving memory. Our hearts are full of sadness for his family. Our deepest sympathy to his mother Peggy, brothers Michael and Steven, sister Stella and his wife Susan and their children. Reunited with our dear friend, his late father Harry. Alex and Joan Colman, Mark and Mich
 GRANT--Raymond. Age 80, January 14, 2005. Beloved husband of Arline for 57 years. Devoted father of Robert, Ken and Pam (Jeff). Dear brother of Helen z''l (Norman). Loving grandfather of six adoring grandchildren. WWII veteran, spokesperson for mutual funds industry, retired as a brilliant 
 HABER--David Mark. Died January 10, 2005, after a long battle with cancer at age 59. Beloved husband of the late Linda Russell Haber and brother of Keith and Alan. Dear brother-in-law of Anita. Loving uncle of Henry, Clark, Kate and Briana Haber. He was the sales manager for the last 15 yea
 HALPER--Arthur A. on January 4, 2005, age 90. A gentle soul and generous spirit has passed. Forsaking the limelight, he held the light so that others might shine. Loving husband of Evelyn, devoted father of Bonnie Cunningham (Joe) and Dee Fogel (Mark), adored grandfather of Jessica, Gaynor,
 HARTOG -- Joseph J. Of Scarsdale, New York, died on January 14, 2005, at home. He was 94. Mr. Hartog was born in Nijmegen, The Netherlands, on December 18, 1910. He married Ada Menko in 1937, and they had five children, of whom four are surviving. Mr. Hartog served in the Dutch Army in Worl
 HIGGINS--Paul V. of La Jolla, California, formerly of Manhattan, died peacefully of heart disease at age 85 on Friday January 7, 2005. The son of the late Patrick J. and Rose Degnan Higgins of Queens, Paul was born on October 30, 1919. A native New Yorker, he recently retired to La Jolla, C
 KILLION--Matthew J. On January 13, 2005. Beloved husband of Pat. Loving father of Mark and Justine; dear father-in-law of Nicole and Kevin, brother of Katherine, Theresa and the late Robert. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave (at 20th St.) Monday 2-5 and 79pm. Mass of Chr
 MORREL--Dr. Melvin. We mourn the loss of this respected and loving man who died on January 11, 2005 at the age of 81. Dr. Morrel practiced medicine in Amityville for over 50 years. He was a member of the medical executive board, president of the hospital staff, and chief of family medicine 
 OSZMANSKI--Warren G., 66, died suddenly December 16. Graduate of Montclair State College. Formerly an executive of Westvaco Corp. Retired in 2003 as VP from Warrior Express, a company he co-founded. Survived by his wife Geraldine, father of Kent and Paige, step-father of James, Deirdre and 
 PADOVER -- Stanley. 68, passed away on January 14, 2005. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Marlene and Marvin Padover       
 PAGE--Frank Jarvis, 88, died peacefully on December 30, 2004, in his home in Quail Ridge Country Club, Boynton Beach, FL. Known as Jarvis, he was born in Maplewood, N.J., September 3, 1916, one of four sons of Leslie M. and Margaret Owen Page. Jarvis was a member of one of the first graduat
 PLATT--Earl. 90, on January 7 in San Francisco. Formerly of Rye Brook, NY and Long Boat Key, FL. He was a loving husband for 58 years of Betty, father of Macki Ellenbogen and Jan Platt, brother of Rose Spanier, grandfather and great grandfather. He was a dentist in Harrison, New York for ov
 SCHULBERG--Jay William. Husband of Kathryn Nicholson Schulberg. Died January 13, 2005 after a seven month battle with pancreatic cancer. A graveside service is to be held Monday, January 17 at 10:15AM, Pinelawn Memorial Park, Pinelawn, Long Island. In lieu of flowers, a contribution to the 
 SHEVACK--Paul. The family of Paul Shevack mourns the passing of this man of integrity, honesty and hard work. His love for his three children, seven grandchildren and his beloved wife Joan, will live on in all of us.       
 SMITH--Judson Stewart. 81, of Pine Plains, NY, died peacefully on Sunday, January 9th, 11:45 am. Mr. Smith was born June 21, 1923, son of the late Caroline Stewart Smith and the late Howard Clark Smith. He interrupted his studies at Harvard to join the US Air Corps during World War II, serv
 SOMMER--Gregg. Suddenly at age 52, on January 11, 2005. Loving son of Terry and Arty; brother of Meryl and Van, uncle of Brette and Drew, and Kirk, sweetheart to Diane. The kindest of heart, truest of friend, and most fun loving of all! Captain Avalanche (aka Bronco Gregg) will always be in
 STRAUS--Siegbert. Of Boca Raton and Lake Success, died suddenly at age 84. Survived by his loving wife of 58 years, Trude, from whom he was inseparable, sons Roger and Harvey, and five grandchildren. Self-made international businessman. Born Iserlohn, Germany, came to U.S. on the Columbus a
 WARSHAVSKY--Henry B., D.D.S. October 17, 1915-January 11, 2005. Beloved husband of Toby for 67 years, adored father of Robert (Terri) and Peggy (Joseph) Seton, cherished grandfather of David, Tara, James, and Noah Delayne and Eliah Seton, adoring great-grandfather of Louis. Special brother,
 WASHBURN--George 90, died January 3, 2005 after a long fight with Alzheimer's. Beloved husband for 57 years of Anne Gibson Clark Washburn, and loving father of Constance Clark Washburn of Lagunitas, CA, and Lynn Washburn Hanke of New York. He leaves five grandchildren: Andrew and William Ca
 WHITWORTH--Rev. Dr. Eugene E., made his transition December 27. Well known author of many books including ''Nine Faces of Christ.'' Founder of Great Western University/Brotherhood. Donations GWB Scholarship Fund, 545 Sutter Street, #       
 WILSON--Glen Parten Jr., 82, Executive Director Emeritus for the National Space Society, died in Fort Worth, Texas, on January 8, 2005. Interment: Arlington National Cemetery. Memorials: Gifts in his honor may be made to The National Space Society, 1620 I Street NW, Suite 615, Washington, D
 Charles H. Bell, the former president and chief executive of McDonald's, died of colorectal cancer in Sydney, Australia, today, the company announced. Mr. Bell was 44 and had been ill since May. He resigned his posts in November. ''Charlie Bell gave his all to McDonald's. Even durin
 Dennis Flanagan, who as editor of Scientific American magazine helped foster science writing for the general reader, died at his home in Manhattan on Friday. He was 85. The cause of death was prostate cancer, according to his wife, Barbara Williams Flanagan. Mr. Flanagan, wh
 BAUM--Samuel S. January 14, 2005, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of East Meadow, LI. Husband of Roslyn (nee Cohen) Baum and the late Grace (nee Lament) Baum. Father of Judie (Harry) Morrow and E. Richard Baum. Grandfather of Iris (Ben) Snyder and Jeffrey (Lelac Almagor) Morrow. The family r
 HABER--David Mark. Died January 10, 2005, after a long battle with cancer at age 59. Beloved husband of the late Linda Russell Haber and brother of Keith and Alan. Dear brother-in-law of Anita. Loving uncle of Henry, Clark, Kate and Briana Haber. He was the sales manager for the last 15 yea
 MARKS--Stephen H. 67. January 15, 2005, after a brief illness. Steve, large in physical stature and in heart, with a capacity for wit and humor to match, leaves a giant void in our lives. Graduate of Midwood High School, attended City College, worked in the Catskills, and graduated from New
 SCULLY--Donal. 89, former Executive Director for North America of the Irish Export Board, died January 15, 2005. He is survived by his son Brian and his wife Margaret, his daughter Deirdre and her husband Vijay Pardal and seven grandchildren. He was predeceased by his wife Eileen and his so
 STERN--Stanley. Died January 14, 2005, age 69. Born in Bronx, NY. Survived by his four children and many, many loved ones. Services to be held at Plaza Funeral Home, 630 Amsterdam Ave, Monday, 1 pm. In lieu of flowers, please donate to Project Ezra, 197 East Broadway, NYC, or The American D
 WAHL--Irving. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Lisa and Michael Rosenstock, and Susan Wahl. Dear brother of Shirley Lipkin and Al Wahl. Loving grandfather of Debra. Service 11:45 am, today, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC. In lieu of flowers memorial do
 YUDKIN--Abraham. Beloved husband of Gloria. Devoted father of Robert and Richard. Dear brother of Estelle and Leon. He will be missed by all who knew and loved him. Services today, at ''Boulevard Riverside Chapels,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, at 11:30 am.       
 KLEIN--Felix. January 17, 1911, to July 26, 1994. Founder Natl. Society for Graphology. His loving heart was like a mighty sun giving warmth and light and courage to all who entered its orbit. Janice Klein and Christine Bergi       
 Zhao Ziyang, the former general secretary of China's Communist Party who was stripped of power for supporting the students during their 1989 pro-democracy Tiananmen Square protests, died in a Beijing hospital on Monday, his family said. He was 85, and had been in a coma since Friday after s
 Alton Tobey, a muralist, portraitist and illustrator whose renderings of famous events and faces hang in museums, libraries, public buildings, corporate offices and private collections, died on Jan. 4 at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y., his family said. He was 90 and formerly lived in La
 Howard Feuer, a prominent casting director who filled roles for scores of Hollywood movies and Broadway shows, died on Dec. 20 at Hackensack Hospital in New Jersey. He was 56. The cause was colon cancer, said his mother, Gertrude Feuerstein. Mr. Feuer's credits include a lon
 ABRONS--Herbert L. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Herbert L. Abrons, a Member of the Association from 1988 until 2003. Herbert was a generous, caring man who will be missed by all who knew him here in this house. He was a good friend to our company, and we extend our deepest con
 BRIDGE--John Gordon, retired Senior VP, Communications Services of GlobeCast, died January 14 at New York Presbyterian Hospital following a lengthy illness. He was 76. In a radio and television career beginning at a small Upstate NY radio station where he recreated live playby-play baseball
 FLANAGAN -- Dennis. The Board of Trustees of the New York Hall of Science notes with sorrow the passing of our founding Trustee and long-time friend, Dennis Flanagan. His lifelong commitment to the public understanding of science inspired and represented our mission and his grand wit animat
 GRANT -- Raymond. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Raymond Grant. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to his wife and to his entire family.       
 KARBANK -- Barney. We mourn the death of Barney Karbank, a leading business and philanthropic figure in Kansas City and father of Neil Karbank, Chair of the HIA Board of Directors. Real estate developer and generous supporter of social and religious causes, he took loving pride, so richly d
 LASKY--Jerome M. On January 15, 2005 at the age of 83. The attorneys and staff of Moses & Singer LLP mourn the loss of our friend and colleague. Jerry Lasky was graduated from Columbia Law School in 1948 as a member of Law Review and a Harlan Fiske Stone scholar. He spent his entire legal c
 MAHEY--Roger M. On January 15, 2005. He was a graduate of the University of Michigan. He retired from Socony Mobil in 1985. He was predeceased by wives Constance Carlsen Mahey in 1949 and Mary Grace Jafetry Mahey in 1992. He is survived by a sister, Barbara Joan (Mahey) Swartz. A celebratio
 UPTON--John Davis (Jack), of Southport, CT died January 15, 2005. Husband of both the late Kate Hurd Rennell, the great-great-granddaughter of P.T. Barnum & Eleanor Bingham Walker. Survived by two daughters, Mary D. Upton of Bristol, RI, and Elinor Biggs and husband Jim of Greens Farms, CT,
 WAHL--Irving. The S.L.E. Lupus Foundation mourns the deep loss of our beloved esteemed Board member Irv Wahl. His kindness, commitment, generosity and support will be remembered. He will always remain in our hearts. We will miss him greatly.       
 WESSLER--Dr. Stanford, 87, predeceased by his wife of 60 years, Margaret Muhlfelder Wessler. Survived by three sons, John of Andover, MA; Steve of Litchfield, ME; and Jim of Auburndale, MA. Dr. Wessler was Associate Dean for Post Graduate Programs, New York University School of Medicine. In
 Humphrey Carpenter, the English writer, editor, radio broadcaster and musician who wrote intimate biographies of Auden, Pound, J.R.R. Tolkien, Dennis Potter and Spike Milligan, among others, died on Jan. 4 in Oxford, England. He was 58. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, Ion Trewin
 ABRONS--Herbert L. The Board of Directors and staff of Wave Hill mourn the passing of Herbert L. Abrons, our devoted and unwavering supporter and neighbor for more than a quarter century, a member of the Board and Executive Committee from 1981 to 1997. He provided vitality and leadership in
 BEARY--Patrick, K.M. Of Highland Beach, FL, passed away on January 16, 2005, surrounded by his family. He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1910, the son of Patrick Beary and Alice O'Neill Beary. He is survived by his beloved wife, Marie; his children, Patricia, Kevin, Roberta and David; his gran
 deCAMP -- William Dods worth, 87, of Short Hills, New Jersey, investor and conservationist, January 16. He is survived by his wife, Eleanor Parker Baker-deCamp, of Wittman, Maryland; a brother and sister-in-law, Michael Anderson deCamp & Wesley Martin deCamp of Edenton, North Carolina; two 
 KELLEHER--Terrence. On January 16, 2005 at age 53. Son of the late Daniel J. and Margaret. Dear brother of D. Michael, Dennis and Rory. Beloved uncle of David, Julie, Daniel, Theresa, Brendan, Rory and Amy. Always to be remembered for his generosity and triumph over adversity. Reposing at N
 LEAKE--Eugene Walter Jr., 93, died at home in Monkton, MD, January 15, 2005. The renowned landscape painter studied painting at Yale University, was president of the Maryland Institute College of Art, Baltimore, 1961-1975, and trustee of the Guggenheim Museum, NY. He taught painting at Yale
 MAHEY--Roger M. On January 15, 2005. He was a graduate of the University of Michigan. He retired from Socony Mobil in 1985. He was predeceased by wives Constance Carlsen Mahey in 1949 and Mary Grace Jafetry Mahey in 1992. He is survived by a sister, Barbara Joan (Mahey) Swartz. A celebratio
 McCLOUD--Stewart C. The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York records with profound sorrow the passing of Most Worshipful Stewart C. McCloud, Past Grand Master, on Sunday, January 16 at his home in Monroe Township, NJ after a long illness. He is survived by Irene,
 MORRIS--DuBois S. Jr., died January 12, 2005, in Ferrisburg, VT. Born in Kuling, China, July 3, 1911, to Alice Buell & DuBois Morris. Survived by his beloved wife, Mary Derby Morris, five devoted children, 10 grandchildren & five greatgrandchildren. Alumnus of Hotchkiss & Princeton. Memoria
 RONK--Glenn Emery. Of Wilton, CT, on January 15, 2005, at age 79. Beloved husband of Barbara Lee, devoted father of four children, Connie, Edward, Martin and William, as well as grandfather of nine and great grandfather of two. A veteran of World War II, graduate of the University of Southe
 ROSS--Edmund B. Age 85. Of Basking Ridge, NJ & Edgartown, MA on January 17, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Margaret (Haskell) Ross who died in 1999. Devoted father of E. Burke Ross Jr. of Palm Beach, FL, Amory L. Ross of Basking Ridge, Benson T. Ross of NYC and Parthenia R. Kiersted of E
 SCHREIBER--Toby. The family of Richard and Helene Rubin of Purchase, New York extend their deepest sympathies to Rita Schreiber and her family on the passing of their dear husband, father, and grandfather Toby Schreiber, in San Francisco, on January 14, 2005. Toby was our very close and bel
 SPEVACK--Rabbi Joseph J. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who served pulpits in Connecticut and New York. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 STERN -- Stanley. Park Avenue Synagogue Men's Club and FJMC Metro Region mourn the passing of a great leader and friend, Stanley Stern. Stanley inspired us with brotherhood and compassion. His support for Project Ezra and Camp Ramah leaves a lasting legacy.       
 STEVENS--William Thomas of Lido Beach, NY on January 18, 2005 at 84. Born September 3, 1920 in New York City to Irving T. Stevens and Mary Coughlin. A 1936 graduate of Xavier High School in Manhattan and a 1940 graduate of the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA. Graduated Columbia U
 STONE--Mortimer (Morty). On January 17, 2005. Survived by his wife of 50 years, Carleen. He will be missed.       
 Peter Zeisler, who helped found the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis and was for many years executive director of the Theater Communications Group, the national advocacy and service organization for nonprofit theaters, died on Sunday at his home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 81. The cau
 Arthur Walworth, a writer on American diplomatic history and an author of a Pulitzer-Prize winning life of Woodrow Wilson, died on Jan. 10 in Needham, Mass. A native and longtime resident of Newton, Mass., he was 101. His death was announced by Charles E. Holly, a partner in the Bos
 H. Bentley Glass, a biologist who in the 1950's and 60's led a ubiquitous career as writer, scientific policy maker and theorizer, with provocative and often prescient predictions about still-burning issues like genetics and nuclear war, died on Sunday in Boulder, Colo. His daughter
 ABRONS--Herbert Lehman died in his 93rd year on January 15, 2005 in Naples, FL. He was a son of Louis Abrons and Anne Schroeder and attended Yale College and Yale Law School. During World War II he served in the Navy as gunnery officer on a ship carrying munitions to the Philippines. He was
 ALPERN--Albert. 89 years, of Concordia, Monroe Township, NJ on January 18, 2005 as the result of injuries sustained in an auto accident. Born in NYC, he lived in Westbury, NY for 28 years, moving to Concordia in Monroe Township in 1988. After his graduation from CCNY he had a long and disti
 AMDUR--Harry, on January 18, 2005. Beloved husband of Marilyn, loving father of Richard and Susan, dear father-in-law of Melissa & Ian, cherished grandfather of Olive. Former long-time owner of Modernage Photo. Member of the Friars, Dutch Treat Club, Camera Club, PAI, American Photographic 
 CARTER -- Sidney, M.D. Members of the Department of Neurology at Columbia University and the Neurological Institute of New York mourn the death of Dr. Sidney Carter on January 16, 2005. He was the Dwight D. Eisenhower Professor of Neurology Emeritus and had been Director of Pediatric Neurol
 DOROS--Jerrold, on January 17. Cherished brother of Ben Fine. 64-year-old attorney. Service Sunday, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' West 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue. DOROS--Jerry. We were saddened by the passing of Jerry Doros, friend, neighbor and long-term Board member. He served u
 FEINER--Arthur H., Ph.D., ABPP. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society profoundly mourn the death of a much celebrated and influential graduate and colleague, Fellow Emeritus, Senior Editor Emeritus of the journal, ''Contemporary Psychoanalysis,'' Training and Superv
 JERVIS--Wayne Talmage, Jr. Beloved husband of 37 years to Ruth G. Jervis, passed away the evening of January 18, 2005 in Los Angeles, CA. The son of Wayne Talmage Jervis, Sr. and Virginia Wheeler Jervis, he was the loving father of Margaret Sculley Allnatt, John Blackburn Sculley, Wayne Tal
 KETCHAM--J. Parker. Died January 17, 2005, age 83. He is survived by his wife Langdale Andrews Ketcham and his son William, both of Greenwich, CT. His daughter Sally Ketcham Thomsen predeceased him. He is also survived by five grandchildren, Stacy, Emily and Margaret Thomsen of Rumford, RI 
 MAY--John Joseph. 68 years. In Delaware. Formerly of Brooklyn NY., L.I. and Danbury, CT. Beloved husband of Carol. Loving father of Linda, Matthew, Michelle, Danielle and Jonathan. Dear brother of William and James. May he rest in peace.       
 PLUMLEY--Catherine Sanders of Cambridge, MA, formerly of Bronxville, January 16, 2005, age 89. Mother of Mary Wueste, Frank Plumley and his wife Gail, and Will Plumley and his wife Rebecca Reinhart. Grandmother of Daniel and Katy Wueste. Service at 2pm, Monday, January 24, at Christ Church,
 RANUM--Christopher S. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the untimely passing of Christopher S. Ranum, son of Atlantic's Golf Course Superintendent, Tobert A. Ranum. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Bob and Allison, his brother, Matthew, and his sister, Amanda. Visitat
 RICHARDS--Benjamin T., Jr., of Darien, CT, on January 16, 2005. Husband of Margaret Olds; father of Elizabeth G. Richards and Cordelia L. Richards Richter; grandfather of Sarah E. and Cordelia L. Francis and Grace E. Richter; brother of Barbara Ann Banks, Elizabeth Egan and David Richards. 
 RUBIN--Yisrael Zanvel. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Wolf Rubin. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 STOLL--Harry. Age 88 on January 18, 2005. Loving husband to Helen. Devoted father to Linda Pearlman, Evelyn Kasper (Ken) and Sandy Stoll (Gail). Loving grandfather to Geoffrey, Jared, Jeremy, Jason, Daniel and Shira. Services will be held today at 11AM at the Hampton Synagogue, 154 Sunset A
 WENDELKEN--John F. Jr., of Syosset, NY age 66, suddenly on January 18, 2005. Survived by his wife, Brenda, son John F. III, daughters Karen & Susan Wendelken, and grandson, Ethan. Dear brother of Robert, Richard, Gerard, and Helen Wendelken, Rosemary DiGangi, Kathleen Smith, and Anne Marie 
 WOLF--Greg. Our firm is in deep mourning over the death of Greg Wolf, the son of our beloved and adored Managing Director, George Wolf. For more than two years Greg has been battling leukemia with the resolve, confidence and strength of character that marks the noble warrior. All the while,
 ZACHARIA--Isaac Herman. After a long and brave battle. Loving husband and best friend to MaryAnn, cherished father of Rachel and (Shelley) and Dr. Norman Brier, Mona Beerman, Estelle and Andrew Ross, Zachary and Laura Lawrence. Adoring grandfather of Shauna, Alena, Stacey, Issac, Talia, Suz
 BERNSTEIN--Sol. My dearest Daddy, Honoring and remembering a swell guy on his 105th birthday. ...Barbara       
 OSBORNE--John S., Jr. In fond remembrance of John S. Osborne, Jr. Watson, Farley and Williams invites his many friends and colleagues to a Memorial Service to celebrate the life of our friend and partner at 2PM, Tuesday, January 25, 2005 at the Yale Club, 50 Vanderbilt Ave, New York City. R
 SAPOLSKY--Dr. Allan. Psychologist and for 40 years Professor at Brooklyn College, passed away January 20, 2004 at age 73. Survived by his wife Dorothy, son Robert, daughter-in-law Teddi and by his two grandsons, William and Nicholas. His warmth, great wit and agile mind are irreplaceable. H
 Malcolm Brachman, a Texas businessman and onetime nuclear physicist who was among the first bridge enthusiasts to finance his own team, died on Jan. 11 at his daughter's home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 78 and until recently a Dallas resident. The cause was complications of pancreat
 Marshall Edelson, a Yale psychiatrist and author who received national attention in his field for his advocacy of scientific rigor in psychoanalysis, died on Sunday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 76. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Dr. Edels
 ABRONS -- Herbert. Hadas sah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America mourns the passing of Herbert Abrons. As a Guardian of Tomorrow and a trustee of the Louis and Anne Abrons Foundation, Herbert was a generous benefactor of Hadassah, devoted to Israel and the Jewish people. His legacy
 AMDUR--Harry. The Members, Officers and Board of Governors of the Dutch Treat Club mourn the loss of our beloved and esteemed Governor, and longtime photographer, Harry Amdur. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Services at noon, Friday, January 21 at Robert Schoen's Menorah Cha
 BERLIN--Ted. We sadly say goodbye to our dear friend Ted. We will miss his quiet wisdom, quick wit and neverending devotion to equal rights for all. Our sympathy and love to his family. Shirley Stamen Jaffe, Larry & Sondra Stamen, & Justine Stamen Arrillaga BERLIN -- Theodore (Ted).
 CARTER--Sidney, MD. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of Blythedale Children's Hospital notes with deep sorrow the passing of our dear friend and colleague. For more than 15 years, Sidney was a leader in our Department of Neurology. His unique knowledge and experience 
 DOYLE--Frances J. (nee Mehl), on January 20, 2005, of Forest Hills Gardens, NY. Formerly of Belle Harbor, NY. Beloved wife of Lawrence. Loving mother of Marianna, Christopher and his wife, Patricia, Jane and her husband, Alan Davis. Dear grandmother of Catherine Davis. Devoted sister of Ret
 FRIAS--Victor J. International Chess Master died January 15, 2005 after a brief illness, age 48. Born in Chile, he was a highly ranked player, Fide 2493 in 2004. He taught chess in New York for 20 years and inspired hundreds of young players, including Grandmasters Wolff and Gurevich. His c
 LARRECQ--Anthony J., age 96, died 16 January 2005 at Pennswood Village, Newtown, PA. Born in Yorba Linda, California in 1908, he lived in Yardley, PA for more than forty years before moving to Pennswood Village. An entrepreneur, he founded Power Generators, Inc. in Trenton, New Jersey in 19
 RANUM--Christopher S. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the untimely passing of Christopher S. Ranum, son of Atlantic's Golf Course Superintendent, Robert A. Ranum. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Bob and Allison, his brother, Matthew, and his sister, Amanda. Visitat
 RICHARDS--John Elliott. 58, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL, on January 4, 2005. Beloved husband to Karen Moran Richards. Adoring father to John Patrick, son of Raymond G. Richards and Catherine Gannon. Born in Bronxville, NY, raised in Larchmont, NY. Attended Iona Elementary and Prep, graduated 
 RUMELY--Paul. An executive in human resources passed away on January 19, at age 59. He is survived by wife of 31 years, Antoinette D'Andria Rumely; two daughters, Maria and Leah, both of New York City, as well as an extended family. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at
 STOLL--Harry. The Board of Directors, Administration and Residents of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Harry Stoll, the special friend whose passion and advocacy for the Jewish elderly helped bring about the establishment of our center. His vision touched the lives of
 SUGRUE--John C. On January 19, 2005 of Forest Hills, New York. Beloved son of Daniel and Sophia Sugrue. Loving brother of Dan and his wife Deirdre, Brendan and Denis. Reposing Fox Funeral Home, Forest Hills, Friday January 21, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral Mass at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs Church,
 TROBE--Jacob. The Trustees and Staff of Jewish Child Care Association are saddened to learn of the death of our former Executive Vice President, Jacob Trobe. Mr. Trobe's first professional jobs were with JCCA predecessor agencies beginning in 1937. During and following WWII Mr. Trobe served
 WRISTON--Walter B. On January 19, 2005 in New York City after an 18 month fight with pancreatic cancer. He was 85. Mr. Wriston was one of the most innovative financiers of our time. Mr. Wriston was born in Middletown, CT, and graduated from Wesleyan University and the Fletcher School of Law
 ZACHARIA--Isaac Herman. After a long and brave battle. Loving husband and best friend to MaryAnn, cherished father of Rachel and (Shelley) and Dr. Norman Brier, Mona Beerman, Estelle and Andrew Ross, Zachary and Laura Lawrence. Adoring grandfather of Shauna, Alena, Stacey, Issac, Talia, Suz
 OSBORNE--John S., Jr. In fond remembrance of John S. Osborne, Jr. Watson, Farley and Williams invites his many friends and colleagues to a Memorial Service to celebrate the life of our friend and partner at 2PM, Tuesday, January 25, 2005 at the Yale Club, 50 Vanderbilt Ave, New York City. R
 SAPOLSKY--Dr. Allan. Psychologist and for 40 years Professor at Brooklyn College, passed away January 20, 2004 at age 73. Survived by his wife Dorothy, son Robert, daughter-in-law Teddi and by his two grandsons, William and Nicholas. His warmth, great wit and agile mind are irreplaceable. H
 Walter B. Wriston, the former chairman of Citicorp who became the most influential banker of his generation by making his bank into the world's largest through a barrage of innovations, including the automated teller machine, died on Wednesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
 Herbert L. Abrons, a lawyer and businessman whose philanthropy centered on settlement houses like the one that had helped members of his family, died on Jan. 15 in Naples, Fla. He was 92 and had been a longtime resident of the Riverdale section of the Bronx. His death was announced 
 John L. Hess, a journalist, essayist and author whose often provocative, even cranky, opinions on subjects from food to France to the First Amendment appeared in The New York Times, a handful of books and radio commentary, died yesterday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 
 Jos Bezerra da Silva, a revered samba singer whose witty lyrics extolling the lives of street thugs and hustlers made him an inspiration to a generation of Brazilian hip-hop artists, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 77. The cause was heart failure after a severe lung infec
 Dr. Morris Simon, a Harvard radiologist and medical innovator who developed a widely used flexible filter to catch and dissolve clots in the bloodstream, died on Monday outside his home in Boston. He was 79. Dr. Simon had a history of heart problems, and the cause was apparently car
 AMDUR--Harry. The Members, Officers and Board of Governors of the Dutch Treat Club mourn the loss of our beloved and esteemed Governor, and longtime photographer, Harry Amdur. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Services at noon, Friday, January 21 at Robert Schoen's Menorah Cha
 BASMAJIAN -- Vincent. A long-time executive of The Estee Lauder Companies, passed away after a brief illness on Sunday, January 16, 2005. Mr. Basmajian was a credentialed pharmacological scientist, a background that he originally utilized in product development roles at R.H. Macy & Co., amo
 CAMP--James E., poet and retired professor, died peacefully January 19, 2005 at the age of 81. He is survived by his wife Jocelyn, son Robert, daughter-in-law McCormick Templeman, sister - in - law Edie Allen and nephews Christopher and Nathan Stull. Memorial services will be held on Monday
 KAYE--Selma. DOROT sends profound condolences to our Honorary Board member Howard Kaye on the loss of his mother, and to Howard's wife Wilma Kaye, his father Walter Kaye, and his children Robin and Ross Kaye. May the memory of Selma be a blessing, and may you be comforted among the mourners
 WRISTON--Walter B. The Trustees of the Practising Law Institute record with deep sorrow the loss of our friend, Walter B. Wriston, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Kathryn D. Wriston, a longtime Trustee of PLI, and his family. Werner L. Polak, Chairman Stephen J. Friedman, Pres.
 ZACHARIA--Isaac. Our deepest condolences to his devoted wife Maryann & his children. Our dear friend will be missed greatly. It was an honor to know you. You are a king among gentlemen. We will always remember you. Love, Dennis and Michael ZACHARIA--Isaac. Farewell, dear friend. You
 Augustine R. Marusi, who steered Borden beyond milk and ice cream and into chemicals, an approach that ended the decline of the company's profits in the 1970's, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 91. The cause was cancer, his family said. In his 11 years 
 ALPERN--Albert. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved father of Rochelle and Steven Rubin, directors of the Alpern Family Foundation, which for many years has been an ardent supporter of medical research programs at
 BINGHAM--Harry Payne, Jr. 92 years old, died on Tuesday, January 18, 2005 in Palm Beach. He was a seasonal resident of Florida since infancy. Born in Cleveland, Ohio he was a grandson of Charles William Bingham, an early settler of Palm Beach. A long-term resident of Jupiter Island, he more
 CARTER--Dr. Sidney. Humanism in medicine has lost a much loved role model. A brilliant leader, teacher and diagnostician, Dr. Sidney Carter's legendary compassion and concern for patients and families was his greatest gift. He truly practiced the ''art of medicine,'' a legacy that lives in 
 GLASS--H. Bentley, Ph.D. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Dr. H. Bentley Glass. Dr. Glass was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Laboratory since 1967, serving as its chair for six years and thereafter as an honorar
 GOLDSTEIN -- Herbert. Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Science and Engineering at Columbia University, on January 12, 2005, at age 82. Noted for his scholarship on classical mechanics and reactor shielding, Dr. Goldstein received the E.O. Lawrence Award from the U.S. Department of Energy and t
 GREENFIELD -- Gordon. Young Concert Artists is deeply saddened by the loss of our distinguished and longtime Board member, Gordon Greenfield, a very generous supporter of young talent. We send our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Susan Wadsworth, Director Peter P. Marino, Chairman of
 HOFFMAN--Jerome, 80, of Port Washington, NY, suddenly at home, on Sunday, January 16. Born 1924 in Manhattan, to the late Lewis and Lillian Hoffman. World War II veteran, devoted bridge player, retired EDP manager, Forbes Inc. Mourned by his wife Judith, sons John of Mountain View, CA, Matt
 JERVIS--Wayne Talmage, Jr. Beloved husband of 37 years to Ruth G. Jervis, passed away the evening of January 18, 2005 in Los Angeles, CA. The son of Wayne Talmage Jervis, Sr. and Virginia Wheeler Jervis, he was the loving father of Margaret Sculley Allnatt, John Blackburn Sculley, Wayne Tal
 LEVITT--Edward. Age 80 years. Died suddenly January 17, 2005. Survived by his loving wife of 39 years Lola Levitt. Represented United Merchants Textiles over 40 years. Will be remembered for his wit and charm and dependability. A World War II veteran, he will be interred at Calverton Nation
 LOPEZ--Benito M. Jr. Born March 17, 1933, in NYC, to Benito and Teresa V. Lopez, died January 21, 2005. Attended All Hallows High School, '50; Fordham College, '54; Harvard Law School, '57; The Juilliard School. Partner Dewey Ballantine LLP, '57-'89; VP Iona College, '89-'92; Executive Dire
 LOWEN--Ann. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Ann Lowen, beloved wife of our dear friend and colleague, George Lowen, MD, a member of Beth Israel's Department of Medicine for more than forty years. To George, his family and all of his wife
 MINER--Vin (Irvin). Husband of Marilyn. Father of Rick and Carole (Schuman). Father-in-law of Annette and Joel. Grandfather of Alexandra, Eric and Ari. Uncle of Debra and Josh Stein. He will be deeply missed by his family and legion of friends.       
 MUNZER--I. Walter. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather. Loved, admired and respected by relatives and friends. Died on January 6, 2005. He was a giant among men.       
 POTTER--William Wakely. 1921 to 2005. After a valiant battle with heart disease, William W. Potter died January 13, 2005. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Ruby L. Potter, son William J. Potter and his wife Linda of Glen Ridge, N.J., daughter Susan Grant (the late Jim Grant), five gra
 RICHARDS--Benjamin T., Jr., of Darien, CT, on January 16, 2005. Husband of Margaret Olds; father of Elizabeth G. Richards and Cordelia L. Richards Richter; grandfather of Sarah E. and Cordelia L. Francis and Grace E. Richter; brother of Barbara Ann Banks, Elizabeth Egan and David Richards. 
 RIDLEY--Rev. Harold E. On January 19, 2005. Reverend Harold E. ''Hap'' Ridley, S.J. President of Loyola College in Maryland, beloved son of Doris (nee Corcoran) Ridley of Manasquan, NJ, and the late Harold E. Ridley of Bernardsville, NJ and Sr. Judith Ridley of Philadelphia. He is also surv
 RUMELY--Paul. An executive in human resources passed away on January 19, at age 59. He is survived by wife of 31 years, Antoinette D'Andria Rumely; two daughters, Maria and Leah, both of New York City, as well as an extended family. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at
 SASLOW--Max S., 91, longtime resident of Palm Beach, FL., formerly of Riverdale, NY, died January 16, 2005. Predeceased by his wife, Ethel, on November 19, 2004. Surviving are son, Carl, his wife, Joan; granddaughters, Rebecca and Caryn; sister, Ruth, and brother-in-law, Sol Kroll; brother,
 THURSTON--Paul William, 84, longtime resident of New York City, died on January 16, 2005 in Lebanon, NJ due to complications from Alzheimer's disease. He was raised in Millburn, NJ, the son of the late Elbert Wren Thurston and Myrtle Thurston Snelling (nee Farrell). He graduated from Michig
 WEINSTEIN--Alvin, 79, Old Westbury, NY. Beloved husband of Joan for 54 years, died January 20, 2005 in Juno Beach, Florida. Loving father of Michael, Marc, Abbe, Peter, David and Jonathan. Grandfather of Jennifer, Melissa, Nikko, Max, Adam, Matthew, Jack, Jasmine, Jules and Noah. Alvin will
 WONG--Ark Sam. 70, Died of pneumonia On January 18, 2005. He is survived by his wife, Ying Fung; his mother, Mee Ghou; four children, Betty, Allen, Judy and Yenly and four grandchildren, Michael, Samantha, Bryan and Brenden. Visiting 3-7pm on January 28 and 9-10am January 29 at Wah Wing San
 WRISTON--Walter B. On January 19, 2005 in New York City after an 18 month fight with pancreatic cancer. He was 85. Mr. Wriston was one of the most innovative financiers of our time. Mr. Wriston was born in Middletown, CT, and graduated from Wesleyan University and the Fletcher School of Law
 Warren Spears, a dancer with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and a modern-dance choreographer, died on Jan. 8 in Copenhagen. He was 50 and lived in Copenhagen. The cause was effects of treatment for multiple myeloma, said Rima Vargas-Vetter, a longtime friend. Mr. Spe
 Johnny Carson, the droll, puckish, near-effortless comedian who dominated late-night television for 30 years, tucking millions of Americans into bed as the host of the ''Tonight'' show, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was the effects of emphysema, family members 
 BIRNBAUM -- Dr. Harvey. Passed away after a long and valiant fight with diabetes and coronary disease at the age of 79. He is survived by his wife Elaine, daughters and sons-in-law Shelly & Mark, Karen & Don Chapman and grandchildren Kerri, Samantha and Josh. He served in the US Navy during
 CARTER--Dr. Sidney. Humanism in medicine has lost a much loved role model. A brilliant leader, teacher and diagnostician, Dr. Sidney Carter's legendary compassion and concern for patients and families was his greatest gift. He truly practiced the ''art of medicine,'' a legacy that lives in 
 DIAMONDSTONE -- Law rence. We are saddened to have received the news of the passing of Larry Diamond. He was an innovator in his approach in marketing in his business. He was a cocontributor to the founding and sustaining of Millmar Paper Sales. A man of his word always, his guidance and st
 GAFFNEY--Matthew Watson, educator, died Friday of natural causes at The Evergreen in Moorestown, NJ. He was 91. After serving as an officer in the U.S. Navy during WWII, he was superintendent of the following public school systems: LeRoy NY 1945-55; Tarrytown - Sleepy Hollow, NY 1955-62; Ab
 GANZ--Louis J. On January 21, 2005. Louis was a graduate of Rensselaer Polytech Institute where he obtained a degree in engineering. He then went on to receive his MBA in Finance from Berkeley and PhD in Finance from NYU. After graduating from NYU he took a position at the University of Sao
 KAPLOW--Irving. On January 23, 2005. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane, Jonathan and Liz. Father-in-law of David and Evan. Cherished grandfather of Daniel (Courtney), Rebecca (Chris), Tanya, Juliana and Melanie. Devoted brother of Sylvia and late brother Herbert. Irving had a
 LOPEZ--Benito M. Jr. Born March 17, 1933, in NYC, to Benito and Teresa V. Lopez, died January 21, 2005. Attended All Hallows High School, '50; Fordham College, '54; Harvard Law School, '57; The Juilliard School. Partner Dewey Ballantine LLP, '57-'89; VP Iona College, '89-'92; Executive Dire
 MINER--Vin (Irvin). Husband of Marilyn. Father of Rick and Carole (Schuman). Father-in-law of Annette and Joel. Grandfather of Alexandra, Eric and Ari. Uncle of Debra and Josh Stein. He will be deeply missed by his family and legion of friends.       
 RAND--Harry I. Died on January 22, 2005, at the age of 92. A graduate of CCNY (1932) and NYU Law School (1936), he was a lover of humanity, poetry, music and always the law. Harry worked in the New Deal from 1938-1948 and then in private practice until his retirement in 2004. During that ti
 THURSTON--Paul William, 84, longtime resident of New York City, died on January 16, 2005 in Lebanon, NJ due to complications from Alzheimer's disease. He was raised in Millburn, NJ, the son of the late Elbert Wren Thurston and Myrtle Thurston Snelling (nee Farrell). He graduated from Michig
 WIEDER--Solomon. On January 19, 2005. Holocaust survivor, hero, friend. Survived by his wife Celia, three children, six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. He was an inspiration to all.       
 David Nyhan, a former political reporter, editor and influential columnist for The Boston Globe, died on Sunday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 64. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Olivia. Mr. Nyhan had collapsed after shoveling snow. Mr. Nyhan, w
 Dr. Frank Harary, a mathematician who wrote and lectured extensively on graph theory, a mathematical specialty often applied in computer science and other fields, died on Jan. 4 in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 83. The cause was a postoperative infection, his family said. Dr. Hara
 CARSON--Johnny. The Friars Club mourns the loss of its esteemed Member, Johnny Carson. His passing leaves a void not only among the Friars, but also in the world of entertainment. For over 30 years he presided over late night television with wit, wisdom, and a comfortable charm that was wel
 GIGNOUX--Regis of Bedford New York and Le Pin, Champtoce, France died unexpectedly at his home in Bedford on January 21, 2005. He was born to Gerard and Claudine Gignoux on March 10, 1923, at Le Pin. He is survived by his wife Sheilah; children, Henri (Wendy), Peggy (David Summer), Louise (
 HORTON--Stephen B. The staff of the law offices of Richard S. Goldstein in New York and London expresses its deep sadness at the passing of their esteemed colleague and friend. He will be remembered forever for his legal guidance and inspiration as well as his years of wisdom. He loved the 
 KAPLOW--Irving. On January 23, 2005. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jane, Jonathan and Liz. Father-in-law of David and Evan. Cherished grandfather of Daniel (Courtney), Rebecca (Chris), Tanya, Juliana and Melanie. Devoted brother of Sylvia and late brother Herbert. Irving had a
 LALLY -- John MacVean. John was born in Utica, NY, received his degree from Colgate University and attended Syracuse University. Was Creative Director of Sudler and Hennessey and then founded Lally, McFarland and Pantello. He was inducted into the Medical Advertising Hall of Fame. He is sur
 MARLOWE--Shepard. Beloved husband of late late Helen, adored by his family Jane, David, Laurie, Darren and Sibyl. Loved by all who knew him.       
 RAND--Harry I. Died on January 22, 2005, at the age of 92. A graduate of CCNY (1932) and NYU Law School (1936), he was a lover of humanity, poetry, music and always the law. Harry worked in the New Deal from 1938-1948 and then in private practice until his retirement in 2004. During that ti
 SHAPIRO--Adrian, 81, died Monday, January 24 in his home in Forest Hills, NY. A man of tremendous spirit, Adrian valiantly battled MS for over 50 years. He was well known and respected in the publishing field having worked for Crown Publishers for over 40 years, retiring in 1985 as the Vice
 WEINSTEIN--Alvin. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Alvin Weinstein, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Joan, his children Michael, Marc, Abbe, Peter, David, Jonathan and their families. Philip Shapir
 WIEDER--Solomon. On January 19, 2005. Holocaust survivor, hero, friend. Survived by his wife Celia, three children, six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. He was an inspiration to all.       
 WRISTON--Walter B. The Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America, acknowledges with deep sorrow the passing of our friend and benefactor, Eagle Scout Walter B. Wriston. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family and his many friends during this difficult time. Mr. Wriston's leader
 Ivor G. Balding, one of three British brothers who gained international fame as polo stars in the 1930's, when the sport attracted large crowds and wide press coverage, died on Thursday at his home in Camden, S.C. He was 96. His death was announced by his family. Mr. Balding
 AUGENBRAUN--Seymour, of Monroe Township, NJ, formerly of Roslyn Hts, NY, graphic designer and fine artist, died January 23. For 54 years beloved husband and dearest friend of Arlene, proud father of Chuck, Donna (deceased), and David, father-in-love of Sara and Louise, adoring grandfather o
 BALDWIN--Harley Allen. Of Aspen and New York. He died peacefully on January 23rd, 2005 after a short illness at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Hospital surrounded by his friends and loved ones. Beloved partner of Richard Edwards. He will be greatly missed by his extensive community of friends a
 BECKERMAN -- Allie. Be loved husband of Shirley and father of Laurie, Stuart and Richard. He was a man of tremendous intelligence, humor, warmth and a great story teller. We extend to our partner and the entire Beckerman family our heartfelt sympathy. Slater & Beckerman       
 COGAN--Rabbi Leo J., 86. On January 24. His wife, Ruth, his children, Rebecca Machlis, Jesse Cogan and Hirsh Cogan, his eight grandchildren and three great grandchildren will miss him dearly. A respected Rabbi, he led a life of integrity, commitment to the Jewish people and a deep love for 
 GIGNOUX--Regis of Bedford New York and Le Pin, Champtoce, France died unexpectedly at his home in Bedford on January 21, 2005. He was born to Gerard and Claudine Gignoux on March 10, 1923, at Le Pin. He is survived by his wife Sheilah; children, Henri (Wendy), Peggy (David Summer), Louise (
 MARKS--Alan D. (82) of Greenwich, CT on January 23. Services Thurs 11:30 AM Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home of Greenwich, CT MARKS--Alan D. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Alan D. Marks. We e
 MARLOWE--Shepard. Beloved husband of his late wife Helen, adored by his family Jane, David, Laurie, Darren and Sibyl. Loved by all who knew him.       
 McCORMACK--George H., Jr., M.D. On January 25. Son of George H. and Natalie McCormack, brother of Elizabeth J. McCormack Aron, loving companion of Mary Murray, father of Jane (William Lauck), Hugh, George (Corinne), Julia, step-father of Lisa (Philip Crawford), grandfather of Adam, and step
 MEANS--Steven Allen of Dallas TX, born January 5, 1945 at Banana River Naval Air Station, FL, died unexpectedly January 19, 2005. We are profoundly saddened by the passing of this extraordinary man-respected, admired and loved by all those privileged and honored to know him. Reared in Fort 
 PECK--Malvin. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our longtime, devoted Honorary Trustee and congregant for almost 50 years, Malvin Peck, beloved husband of Joyce Peck. Mal was also a co-President of our Brotherhood and served as President of the Metropolitan Council
 PESKIN--Sidney, beloved father, businessman and benefactor, died in his sleep at age 90, January 24, 2005. A graduate of New York University in 1935, he was a Certified Public Accountant, before becoming president of Polyplastex United, Inc. He was active in resettlement of Jewish immigrant
 REISS--Alfred B. Loving husband of Hilda J. Reiss and father of Bart Reiss, passed away yesterday. In an American sense, he was a great man. A self-reliant man-who started with nothing-who put himself through college at night, while working a day job and helping financially with his parents
 SHIRANE--Gen. A Senior Physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory and renowned expert on neutron scattering, on January 16, 2005. Author of over 700 papers, recipient of the Buckley Award, elected to National Academy of Sciences, and American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Survived by his b
 SHWOMEDWAR--Edward J. 92 years. Lived in Cedarhurst 45 years. Devoted and loving husband to Selma, 67 years. Much loved and devoted father of Gil and Bonnie, Fred and Elyce, Arlene and Joel Fishkind, Sharon and Jeffrey Halper. Adored grandfather of Phil (Erica), Lainie (Danny), Lauren (Howi
 SOKOL--Louis L. of Commack, New York died on January 24, 2005, in his 78th year. A graduate of Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute and a lifelong advocate of technology and its profound benefits to humanity. Lou retired after a long and distinguished career as an engineer and manager in numerous
 STOKES--Peter, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Peter Stokes, professor emeritus in psychiatry at Weill Cornell Medical College, where he also received his medical degree. A pioneer in the field of psychopharmacology, he was a highly revered c
 VALENTINE--Bill J. Loved life, Italy and shoes. He made his transition on Friday, January 21, 2005.       
 WRISTON--Walter. Walter was known to many as a brilliant and innovative banker, statesman, author and philanthropist, but to us, he was first and foremost a devoted and loving father, father-in-law & grandfather. His intellectual curiosity, marvelous humor, kindness, unfailing support and m
 ZELNER--Charles R. On January 25, 2005. Beloved husband, father, father-in-law, grandfather, brother, uncle and friend. His steadfast loyalty and love will forever remain a part of our lives.       
 Dr. William Trager, who opened a path for modern malaria research by discovering how to grow its most lethal parasite in the laboratory, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. The cause was believed to be a heart attack, his son, Leslie Trager, said. In 1976, 
 BECKERMAN -- Allie. Be loved husband of Shirley and father of Laurie, Stuart and Richard. He was a man of tremendous intelligence, humor, warmth and a great story teller. We extend to our partner and the entire Beckerman family our heartfelt sympathy. Slater & Beckerman       
 BIRNBAUM--Howard K., professor emeritus at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign died on January 23 in Urbana, IL. He was a fellow of AAAS, APS, AAAS, ASM, and a member of the NAE. Birnbaum was born October 18, 1932, in Brooklyn. He is survived by his wife, Freda Silber, his childr
 BLITZER--Esther, 90, on January 25. Cherished wife of the late Aaron, devoted mother of Rosa Blitzer Oppenheim and Alan Oppenheim, adored grandmother of Adam and his fiancee Amy and David and his wife Emily. Services Friday, 9:30 AM, Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt 4, Paramus, NJ. 
 CLARK--Joseph P., on January 26. Beloved husband of Marian. Father of Joseph and John. Graduate of Regis H.S., Rensselear Polytechnic Institute (RPI), NYU Graduate School of Business Administration. He fought with the 89th Inf. Div. in World War II through France and Germany. Participated i
 GIGNOUX--Regis of Bedford New York and Le Pin, Champtoce, France died unexpectedly at his home in Bedford on January 21, 2005. He was born to Gerard and Claudine Gignoux on March 10, 1923, at Le Pin. He is survived by his wife Sheilah; children, Henri (Wendy), Peggy (David Summer), Louise (
 GRUBERG -- Lawrence, of Boca Raton, Florida (formerly of Eastchester, New York) passed away on Friday, January, 21, 2005. Founder of Detergent Labs Inc., and a former member of Wood Ridge Country Club and Beth El Temple in New Rochelle, NY. A remarkable man whose kindness and compassion tou
 JOHNSON -- Philip. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee Philip Johnson, whose devotion to the Museum spans its entire seventy-five-year existence. A leading member of the circle of young aesthetes who both supported and were nurtured by t
 KURZ--Joseph. Born July 29, 1924, died Palm Beach, FL on January 24, 2005. A US Army Veteran of WWII. Mr. Kurz was the brother of the late Sophia Casey, Loretto Langan, Henry Kurz, and Mary Therese Blend. He is survived by his nieces and nephews: Bernadette Casey Smith, Noel Glenn, Carol Mu
 McCORMACK--George H., Jr., M.D. On January 25. Son of George H. and Natalie McCormack, brother of Elizabeth J. McCormack Aron, loving companion of Mary Murray, father of Jane (William Lauck), Hugh, George (Corinne), Julia, step-father of Lisa (Philip Crawford), grandfather of Adam, and step
 MEADE--Reverend James C. on January 26, 2005. Jim was ordained a White Father of Africa in 1951 in Canada. Jim spent over seventeen years in Mwanza Africa. Jim was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, while on a bombing mission over Germany during WW II. He also spent twenty-three months
 SHIRANE--Gen. A Senior Physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory and renowned expert on neutron scattering, on January 16, 2005. Author of over 700 papers, recipient of the Buckley Award, elected to National Academy of Sciences, and American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Survived by his b
 SHWOM--Edward J. 92 years. Lived in Cedarhurst 45 years. Devoted and loving husband to Selma, 67 years. Much loved and devoted father of Gil and Bonnie, Fred and Elyce, Arlene and Joel Fishkind, Sharon and Jeffrey Halper. Adored grandfather of Phil (Erica), Lainie (Danny), Lauren (Howie), L
 Philip Johnson, at once the elder statesman and the enfant terrible of American architecture, died Tuesday at the compound surrounding the Glass House, the celebrated residence he built for himself in New Canaan, Conn. He was 98. His death was disclosed by David Whitney, his compani
 William Augustus Bootle, who as a federal judge in 1961 set in motion a chain of legal decisions that in a single week desegregated the University of Georgia, died on Tuesday at his home in Macon, Ga. He was 102. Judge Bootle's family announced the death. Judge Bootle, appoi
 Dr. Sidney Carter, a Columbia University neurologist and clinician who helped to found and define the field of pediatric neurology in the 1950's, died on Jan. 16 in a nursing home in Mashpee, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 92. He had had a series of strokes, his family said. At 
 Max Velthuijs, a Dutch author and illustrator whose playful stories of Frog and friends have provided children worldwide with parables about prejudice, fear, charity and love, died on Tuesday in the Netherlands. He was 81 and lived in The Hague. The cause was lung cancer, his family
 GIGNOUX--Regis of Bedford New York and Le Pin, Champtoce, France died unexpectedly at his home in Bedford on January 21, 2005. He was born to Gerard and Claudine Gignoux on March 10, 1923, at Le Pin. He is survived by his wife Sheilah; children, Henri (Wendy), Peggy (David Summer), Louise (
 HEITZ--Karl. On January 26, 2005 after an illness of six months. Born in Kreuzlingen, Switzerland. A dear friend of many. He owned and managed in New York until his death Heitz Service Corp., in business since 1947 an active European importer, distributor in servicing of Alpa, Tessina, Robo
 HENNELLY--Edmund Paul on January 25, 2005 of West Islip, NY. Beloved husband of Josephine Kline Hennelly. Loving father of Patricia A. Anglin & Pamela Farley. Dear brother of Gloria Lind. Cherished grandfather of five. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasse
 JACOBS--Herbert E. January 26, in Palm Beach, Florida. Loving husband of Shirley, devoted father of Alan L. Jacobs (Barbara), Betty Malech (Kenneth) and Lilith Jacobs. Beloved brother of Pearl Goldman (Mynn) and Thelma Goldberg. Cherished grandfather of Emily Florin (Doug), Daniel Malech an
 JOHNSON -- Philip. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee Philip Johnson. Philip was present at the opening of the Museum in 1929. He organized the Museum's first architecture and design exhibitions: ''The International Style'' in 1932 and 
 KURZ--Joseph. Born July 29, 1924, died Palm Beach, FL on January 24, 2005. A US Army Veteran of WWII. Mr. Kurz was the brother of the late Sophia Casey, Loretto Langan, Henry Kurz, and Mary Therese Blend. He is survived by his nieces and nephews: Bernadette Casey Smith, Noel Glenn, Carol Mu
 LEVY--Julien. On January 22, age 92. Devoted husband of 63 years to Sunya, treasured father of Ellen and adored grandfather of Hannah. Graduate of Boys High, CCNY, class of 1936 and WWII veteran, U.S. Army. He was always there for us, a modest and gentle man of intellectual brilliance whose
 LLOYD-EVANS--John Wynn, died on January 26 at the age of 80. He was born in Doncaster, Yorkshire, England. From 1964-1975 he taught at St. Bernard's School in New York City. He is survived by his wife, Alberta Bonynge Lloyd-Evans, who lives in Houston. For those desiring, memorial contribut
 McCORMACK -- George H. The Department of Medicine of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons is saddened by the loss of George H. McCormack, M.D. He spent the entirety of his long and rich career as a member of the Department of Medicine, earning his M.D. at P&S, training as in
 MITCHELL--Ehrman B., FAIA, co-founder of Mitchell/ Giurgola Architects in 1958, died on January 18 in Philadelphia, age 80. With partner, AIA Gold Medalist Romaldo Giurgola, the firm became internationally known very prominently for the Australia National Parliament House (1980). Mitch will
 PASQUALE--Michael Lawrence; age 22, passed away suddenly in New York City on January 26, 2005. He was the son of Nancy Curry O'Shaughnessy of New York and Lawrence Pasquale of Ossining. Also survived by his step father William O'Shaughnessy. Michael was the first grandson of the late Bernar
 Paul Nash, a composer and guitarist who created orchestral jazz works, site-specific compositions for New York public spaces and educational programs for New York public school students, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause w
 Donald V. North, who as head of the organized crime effort of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York in the 1990's helped devise and carry out strategies that led to the conviction of John J. Gotti and other organized crime leaders, died on Sunday after collapsing while driving in 
 Jim Capaldi, a drummer and songwriter who played with the classic British rock band Traffic on ''Feelin' Alright,'' ''You Can All Join In'' and other songs, died early yesterday in London. He was 60 and lived in Marlow, England. The cause was stomach cancer, said John Taylor, Mr. Ca
 AMELAR -- Theresa Edel man. Peacefully at age 107. Cherished mother of Dr. Richard D. Amelar and his wife Alice. Beloved grandmother of Jessica, Sarah, Susanna (Tim Lodge). Adored great grandmother of Joseph, Hannah and Sam. Services Sunday, 9:30AM at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st Str
 BEIR--Howard F. January 23, in Salisbury, CT. Beloved husband of Amy. He leaves his son John and wife Diane, and adored grandchildren, Alex and Meredith. Also a brother Richard and sister Babette and numerous nieces and nephews. Service February 4 at 3 PM at St. John's Episcopal Church, Sal
 DEUTSCH--Jerry. On January 27, 2005. Beloved husband of Thelma, adored father of Victor (Susana) and Rosanne (Doug) Capuder, loving grandfather of Katherine and James, cherished brother. He devoted his life to his family. We will miss him always. Service Sunday 9:30 AM at ''The Riverside'',
 GERBER--Martin, 89, of Long Branch died Thursday at home. He was the retired Executive Vice President of the United Auto Workers. Survived by his wife Florence, his daughter Lois Gerber, his son and his wife Edmund and Madeleine, four grandchildren, Ellen Finberg, Hal Finberg, Michelle Gerb
 GORMAN--William D. On January 25, 2005, of Bayonne. Husband of Jan (nee Echols) Gorman. Services were held at the G. Keenen O'Brien Funeral Home, Bayonne, NJ. Emtombment, Garden of Memories, Paramus, New Jersey. Donations may be made in his memory to: Bayonne Community Cancer Support Group,
 LEVENSON--Ralph. Of New York City after a prolonged illness. Passed away January 28, 2005. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Survived by Ruth, Neil, Jimmy (Ellen), Carole (Bruce), Jeremy, Frederick and Harrison. Services 1 PM Sunday, January 30 at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 A
 LISSNER -- John Arthur. Passed away at 77, January 27, 2005. Beloved brother of Peggy Schultz, uncle of Amy Schear, Michael, Robert and Andrew Schultz. Great uncle of two nephews & six nieces. Former public relations executive, writer and radio personality. His great passion was jazz and th
 LLOYD-EVANS--John Wynn, died on January 26 at the age of 80. He was born in Doncaster, Yorkshire, England. From 1964-1975 he taught at St. Bernard's School in New York City. He is survived by his wife, Alberta Bonynge Lloyd-Evans, who lives in Houston. For those desiring, memorial contribut
 Philip J. Friedman, a longtime Democratic political consultant whose list of clients included Edward I. Koch, Hugh L. Carey and John D. Rockefeller IV, was found dead in his Manhattan apartment on Thursday. He was 50. The cause of death was not made public, pending a medical examine
 William O. Bailey, an insurance executive who helped attract investors to many public projects by persuading the insurance industry to guarantee municipal bonds, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan and Moultonborough, N.H. 
 Jacob L. Trobe, who directed the care and resettlement of thousands of Holocaust survivors left adrift after World War II, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 93. His death was announced by his family. As a representative of the American Jewish Joint Distrib
 Lucien Carr, one of the founders -- and one of the last survivors -- of the Beat Generation of poets and writers, although one who never wrote poetry or novels, died on Friday. He was 79. Mr. Carr died at George Washington University Hospital after collapsing at his home in Washingt
 ADLER--Beniek. On January 29, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Chawa. Loving father of Doris and Sol. Father-inlaw of Dr. Andrew Gershon and Deborah Adler. Adoring grandfather of Ron, Louis and Matthew. He will be deeply missed by Laura Gershon, his family and many friends. Service Sunday,
 BAILEY--William O. Former president, chief operating officer, and vice chairman of Aetna Life & Casualty Company and former CEO and chairman of the board of MBIA Inc., died January 28, 2005 of pneumonia at age 78. A leading figure in the insurance and financial guarantee industries for five
 BALDWIN--Harley. We are saddened by the passing of an amazing man. Our condolences to his Richard and those whose lives he touched. The Rogers and Peck Families       
 BLAU--Herman, on January 28th at age 95. Devoted husband of 70 years to Gerda. Beloved father of Ronald and Stanley. Grandfather of five, great grandfather of nine. A man of much resiliency and spirit, he will be sorely missed by all who loved him.       
 DeDAPPER -- Jay Warren, age 80 of Westport, CT. Formerly of Southern California, husband of Marguerite Walcott DeDapper. Died January 25, 2005. A USC graduate of 1947 and again with a masters in 1955, he was also an Army veteran of WWII. Mr. DeDapper worked in the chemical and aerospace ind
 ELFASSY--Shlomo. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Assoc. Rabbi       
 FEINGOLD--Joseph, born in Fleischman, New York, on December 12, 1912, to Charles Feingold & the former Bessie Feinstein. He was raised in Brooklyn, New York, and died in Phoenix, Arizona, on January 22, 2005. In recent years he resided in Grosse Ile, Michigan. Dr. Feingold attended the Univ
 GUTTERMAN--Stewart. Beloved husband for over 46 years of Shirley. Loving and dedicated father of Jeffrey, Russet, Robin, Philip and Ellen. Caring brother of Beverly and Walter Warheit, Natalie and Dr. Mort Rachelson, Jeannine and Michael Gutterman. Cherished and devoted grandfather of Lucas
 JOHNSON -- Philip. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee Philip Johnson. Philip was present at the opening of the Museum in 1929. He organized the Museum's first architecture and design exhibitions: ''The International Style'' in 1932 and 
 LENCEK--Rado L. Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Civilizations at Columbia University and the Institute on East and Central Europe, School of International and Public Affairs died on January 27th in Riverdale, NY. Born in Slovenia in 1921, Lencek was a prolific scholar of linguist
 LEVENSON--Ralph. Of New York City after a prolonged illness. Passed away January 28, 2005. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Survived by Ruth, Neil, Jimmy (Ellen), Carole (Bruce), Jeremy, Frederick and Harrison. Services 1 PM Sunday, January 30 at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 A
 LIPSYTE--Sidney I. After 100 good years, he died on January 20. Father of Robert and Gale, grandfather of Sam and Susannah, great-grandfather of Alfred, father-in-law of Lois, grandfather-in-law of Ceridwen and Ben, he will rejoin his late wife of 66 years, Fanny in their endless conversati
 LLOYD-EVANS--John Wynn, died on January 26 at the age of 80. He was born in Doncaster, Yorkshire, England. From 1964-1975 he taught at St. Bernard's School in New York City. He is survived by his wife, Alberta Bonynge Lloyd-Evans, who lives in Houston. For those desiring, memorial contribut
 MEYERSON -- Frank. Born February 9, 1920, died January 18, 2005. Husband, father, grandfather and friend, distinguished by his unfailing kindness and helpfulness. WWII veteran, served on the USS Bayfield. Survived by his wife of 62 years, Beatrice Cohen, children, Barbara and George, grandc
 QUINN--James Joseph, of Bay Shore, LI, formerly of the Bronx, and citizen of the Republic of Ireland, on January 28, 2005, after a most courageous year with cancer. Survived by his cherished little flower and wife of 46 years, Therese; his six children, James, John, Janice, Joseph, Jill and
 SCHREIBER--Martin. 81, of Boynton Beach and formerly of North Bellmore, NY, passed away peacefully on January 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Judith and Dr. Andrew, and Mrs. Gretchen Schreiber (and children Taylor and Austin). Cherished grandfather of Gabriel and Elana
 SCHWARTZ--Max H. Of Hamden, CT on January 22, at 94. Devoted husband to Rosaline; beloved father of Andrew and Susan, grandfather of Alexandra and Peter. Graduate of Lafayette College and Yale Law School, Stiles College Fellow, he practiced law in New Haven for over 50 years. Memorial Servi
 STEINFELD--Thomas A., 87, died on January 13 2005, after a brief illness. A man who loved life, his family and his friends, Tom is survived by his loving wife Viviane, his daughter Jill and her husband Saul, his son Geoffrey and stepsons Edmond and Robert as well as his granddaughter Jocely
 SZCZEPANIAK -- Prof. Ed ward Aloysius. Of Bloomfield Hills, MI on January 16th, 2005. Retired professor of Aeronautical, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering at the University of Detroit and WWII veteran (USN). He was known as a passionate teacher who expected his students to be able to th
 WAXMAN -- Isidore Harold, devoted husband, father and grandfather, died just before Shabbat on Friday, January 21, 2005. Born in 1916, Mr. Waxman was a graduate of Townsend Harris High School and the City College of New York. Mr. Waxman was in many ways the embodiment of the Greatest Genera
 WRISTON--Walter. For his many friends the world without Walter Wriston may be very different. His quiet support in any personal crisis, his wise counsel always emphasizing the positives in any situation--local, national or worldwide, his renowned humor, always uplifting, and endless other c
 The Rev. Rufus A. Strother Jr., who led a predominantly African-American congregation in northern Westchester County for 38 years and was noted for his work to foster understanding between races and to improve community relations, particularly during the years of the civil rights movement, 
 Ephraim Kishon, a Holocaust survivor who became one of Israel's best-known humorists with his satirical books and movies popular here and in Europe, died at his home in Switzerland on Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, his family said. He was 80. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon spo
 Harley Baldwin, a sociable entrepreneur based in Aspen, Colo., whose high-profile dealings in real estate, restaurants and art helped define the ski resort literally and figuratively, died on Jan. 23 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 59. The cause was kid
 BAILEY--William O. Former president, chief operating officer, and vice chairman of Aetna Life & Casualty Company and former CEO and chairman of the board of MBIA Inc., died January 28, 2005 of pneumonia at age 78. A leading figure in the insurance and financial guarantee industries for five
 GUTTERMAN--Stewart. Beloved husband for over 46 years of Shirley. Loving and dedicated father of Jeffrey, Russet, Robin, Philip and Ellen. Caring brother of Beverly and Walter Warheit, Natalie and Dr. Mort Rachelson, Jeannine and Michael Gutterman. Cherished and devoted grandfather of Lucas
 JOHNSON -- Philip. Philip Johnson designed many buildings. We are proud he chose to live in Museum Tower overlooking the Sculpture Garden he created. Our sympathy to our neighbor and former board member, David Whitney. Toni Ausnit Flynn, President Ted Voss, Vice President Mary Jo Hausmann, 
 SCHREIBER--Martin. 81, of Boynton Beach and formerly of North Bellmore, NY, passed away peacefully on January 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Judith and Dr. Andrew, and Mrs. Gretchen Schreiber (and children Taylor and Austin). Cherished grandfather of Gabriel and Elana
 TOMME -- Ronald Preston. Known for his role as Bruce Sterling in the CBS soap opera ''Love of Life'' for 21 years. Died on January 29, 2005, at his home in NYC after a long illness. Ronald is survived by his loving wife Jennifer and three brothers, John, Michael and Steven. Mr. Tomme, born 
