 BARASH-David. The Partners and Staff of Barash, Friedman, Friedberg and Adasko, CPAs P.C. deeply mourn the passing of David Barash on December 28, 2002. He was a CPA for more than 60 years and a co-founding partner of the accounting firm. As a friend to all, he never missed an opportunity t
 CURRAN-Patrick M.J. Died on Saturday, December 28, in his 57th year. Devoted son of the late Patrick and Bridget (nee Ginnelly). He will be deeply missed by his sisters Patricia Carroll and Catherine McTernan, and his brothersin-law Thomas and James. Beloved by his nieces Catherine Maguire 
 DWECK-David. It is with great sympathy that we extend our condolences to our son-in-law, Michael R. Dweck on the passing of his father David. We join him and his family in their mourning and pray that Mr. Dweck may rest in peace. Alejandro and Estela Luppi       
 FRUCHTMAN-Arthur, age 66. Of Montville, N.J. Succumbed after his courageous 19 month battle with leukemia. He was an inspiration to all and his great sense of humor and kindness will always be remembered and cherished. Beloved husband of Paula (nee Ehrlich). Beloved father of Beth (Jess) Ro
 GREEN-Leon A. A long time resident of Pleasantville, died on Dec. 28, 2002 at home surrounded by his family. He was 89. Mr. Green was born on August 1st, 1913 in Paris, France to Bernard and Scarlet Houbermann Grunzveig. Leon attended New York City public schools and worked for the New York
 HELMAN-Gary R. Age 47. Died December 28, 2002 after a long and arduous illness. Beloved son of Joy and Gilbert Helman, and beloved husband of Nancy. Dear and adored brother of Denice H. Rein and Mark A. Helman, and uncle of his nieces Nicole Rein and Sara Helman and nephews Alex J. Rein and
 KAPLAN-Herman L. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation is deeply saddened by the loss of Herman Kaplan (''Kappy''), an orginal Trustee of The Institute. Kappy was a cherished friend and benefactor to The Institute, and served as a dedicated Trus
 KENNEY-John Robert. Died in New York City on Christmas morning. Born January 1, 1927 to Catherine and John Kenney in Hinsdale, IL, he graduated as valedictorian from Hartford High School in Wisconsin. From 1945-1946, he served in the US army in Japan. He received his undergraduate degree in
 KIMBALL-Ernest Robbins, M.D., 93, a pediatrician and pioneer in the scientific documentation of the medical and psychological benefits of breastfeeding, passed away December 27, 2002 of complications resulting from aplastic anemia. Born in Arlington, MA, Dr. Kimball went on to become a resp
 LEFKOWITZ-Hon. Joel L. On December 30, 2002 at the age of 66. Beloved son of Rebecca. Loving husband of Helen. Devoted father of Charles and Lisa, Michael, and Julie and Todd Mendik. Beloved brother of Marilyn Troy. Also survived by his five loving grandchildren. He served as Brookhaven Tow
 PETROFF-Craig Jonathan. Of New York City, passed away peacefully on December 27, 2002, at age 48. A man of exceptional energy, creativity, and managerial skills, Craig was the long-time general manager of Mesa Grill. During his many devoted years there, he helped to mold it into one of the 
 RYAN-Winston Durrell. On Dec. 26, 2002 in Callahan, FL. Graduate of the New York State Maritime Academy. He also served in the US Navy during the Korean Conflict. Beloved father of Brooke Byrd & Clifford Ryan. Loving brother of Nancy Rain and Mary Krepela. Also, survived by four grandchildr
 SEGAL-Benjamin. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Benjamin Segal on December 27, 2002. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services to be held at Quinnipiac Club, 221 Church St, New Haven, CT. at 6PM Thu
 SOLOMON-George J. A superb lawyer whose skill, integrity and dedication enhanced the profession he loved. He was my true friend and partner for the forty-five years we practiced law together. His loyalty to his family, clients, and colleagues was remarkable. He never had another agenda. Jus
 STERN-Stanley. The Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel of Riverdale mourns the loss of beloved member and former president Stanley Stern. May his memory be a blessing.       
 WRENN-McDonald Edward, Jr. A health physicist, died in his sleep in Baltimore, MD on December 19, 2002, and was buried in Norfolk, VA on December 26, 2002. In 1958, Mr. Wrenn received a B.A. with honors in physics from Princeton University, then entered the U.S. Navy, and served as a radiat
 Richard Horner, a Broadway theater owner and producer who won a Tony Award for the 1974 revival of Eugene O'Neill's ''Moon for the Misbegotten,'' died on Saturday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 82. By himself and with his business partner Lester Osterman, Mr. Horner prod
 Salvatore Pepe, a major developer of commercial real estate in Westchester County, died on Sunday at a hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 93 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. Mr. Pepe was the president of Bianco & Pepe Inc., based in Scarsdale, N.Y., which he founded decades ago in a p
 Joe Foss, a Medal of Honor winner as a Marine fighter pilot in World War II who was a two-term governor of South Dakota, commissioner of the upstart American Football League and head of the National Rifle Association, died yesterday at a hospital in Arizona. Mr. Foss, who lived in Scottsdal
 BARASH-David. The Partners and Staff of Barash, Friedman, Friedberg and Adasko, CPAs P.C. deeply mourn the passing of David Barash on December 28, 2002. He was a CPA for more than 60 years and a co-founding partner of the accounting firm. As a friend to all, he never missed an opportunity t
 CURRAN-Patrick M.J. Died on Saturday, December 28, in his 57th year. Devoted son of the late Patrick and Bridget (nee Ginnelly). He will be deeply missed by his sisters Patricia Carroll and Catherine McTernan, and his brothersin-law Thomas and James. Beloved by his nieces Catherine Maguire 
 FRUCHTMAN-Arthur. Age 66, succumbed after his courageous 19-month battle with leukemia. For eight years he served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Ingersoll Dresser Pump Company.       
 HELMAN-Gary R. Age 47. Died December 28, 2002 after a long and arduous illness. Beloved son of Joy and Gilbert Helman, and beloved husband of Nancy. Dear and adored brother of Denice H. Rein and Mark A. Helman, and uncle of his nieces Nicole Rein and Sara Helman and nephews Alex J. Rein and
 HERNANDEZ-Miguel A., Esquire, 66, on New Year's Eve. Cherished brother to Marco and Dorsa. Beloved father, uncle, and brother-in-law who leaves a legacy of love, counsel and kindness to all. US Army Veteran, graduate of Brooklyn College, Magna Cum Laude, and Brooklyn Law. Tireless defender 
 LEFKOWITZ-Hon. Joel L. On December 30, 2002 at the age of 66. Beloved son of Rebecca. Loving husband of Helen. Devoted father of Charles and Lisa, Michael, and Julie and Todd Mendik. Beloved brother of Marilyn Troy. Also survived by his five loving grandchildren. He served as Brookhaven Tow
 MASSETT-Jason. The Rubinstein family extends their deepest sympathy to the entire Massett family, Henry, Kerry, Jessica and Justin. We share your sorrow. We share your grief. We share your unbearable pain. Jason was a renaissance man. His leadership, intellectual curiosity, extraordinary ki
 NOURSE-Joan Thellusson. 81 on December 29, 2002. Wife of the late Philip E. Nourse. Beloved mother of Kathleen M. Romano and William P. Nourse, and his wife Deia Argue Nourse. Grandmother of Autumn Joy, Deia Joel and Joelle Marie. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, 10:30AM, Our Lady of Espe
 ROAMAN-George. On December 30, 2002. Cherished life partner of Evalin Goodman. Grandson of The Roaman Department Stores and adored by his many Fuller Brush customers. Services Friday January 3, 2003, 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue.       
 SOLOMON - George. The partners of Kronish Lieb Weiner & Hellman LLP mourn the passing of our beloved partner, teacher and friend, George Solomon. George was a lawyer's lawyer whose intellectual grace and personal warmth enriched our practice and our lives. We extend our condolences to his f
 Ian MacNaughton, a British director who helped a group of young comedians shape ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' into a watershed of absurdist television comedy, died on Dec. 10 in Munich after being injured in a car crash, The Times of London reported. He was 76. A former actor, Mr
 BARASH-David. The Partners and Staff of Barash, Friedman, Friedberg and Adasko, CPAs P.C. deeply mourn the passing of David Barash on December 28, 2002. He was a CPA for more than 60 years and a co-founding partner of the accounting firm. As a friend to all, he never missed an opportunity t
 BAUMWELL - Maxwell J. Age 87 of Marlboro, NJ. Died January 2, 2003 at his home in Marlboro, NJ. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he lived in Queens for 45 years, before moving to Marlboro 15 years ago. Mr. Baumwell was self employed as a typographer in New York, New York for 52 years, retiring in 1992
 CONNOR-Nicholas J. Nicholas J. Connor, age 68, died peacefully at his home in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico on December 26, 2002 after a long illness. Son of the late Marie and Nicholas Connor of Scarsdale, beloved husband of Irma Cerezo. He is also survived by seven children, ten grandchildren an
 DRESSNER - Howard. The Board of Directors and staff of the Nonprofit Coordinating Committee of NY mourn the loss of our founding President, Howard Dressner. His vision and devotion to the nonprofit sector helped improve the lives of New Yorkers. He will be missed. DRESSNER-Howard. A
 GLESPEN-Claire. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Claire Glespen, beloved sister of Mike German. We extend our deepest condolences to Mike and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 GREEN-Leon A., 89. A longtime resident of Pleasantville, N.Y., died on December 28, 2002, at home surrounded by family. Survived by his wife Mary, children Brad, Andrea and Susan and brother Marvin, five grandchildren and four great grandchildren. Donations may be made to the Westchester AR
 HERNANDEZ-Miguel A., Esquire, 66, on New Year's Eve. Cherished brother to Marco and Dorsa. Beloved father, uncle, and brother-in-law who leaves a legacy of love, counsel and kindness to all. US Army Veteran, graduate of Brooklyn College, Magna Cum Laude, and Brooklyn Law. Tireless defender 
 JOSEPH-Jonathan. Beloved son of Joyce and Stephen. Loving brother of Amy. Funeral services January 3, Friday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St & Amsterdam. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Association to Benefit Children, 419 E. 86 St, NY, NY 10028. JOSEPH-Jonatha
 MASSETT-Jason. The Rubinstein family extends their deepest sympathy to the entire Massett family, Henry, Kerry, Jessica and Justin. We share your sorrow. We share your grief. We share your unbearable pain. Jason was a renaissance man. His leadership, intellectual curiosity, extraordinary ki
 McCORMACK - Clement Royal. Mutual of America and its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn the passing of our former Executive Vice President and Treasurer, Clem McCormack. Clem was a beloved friend whose contributions during his 16 years of service help
 MILLER-William Harlowe. 93, of Waverly Heights, Gladwyne, PA, died on December 31, 2002. Born June 9, 1909, in Plainfield, NJ, he was a former resident of Lloyd Harbor and Oyster Bay, NY, for 60 years. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1927, and Princeton University in 1931, wher
 PAN-Huo-Hsi, 84, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics at Polytechnic University, on December 31, 2002. Survived by his wife Chao, daughters Lillian and Nina, nephew and cousins. Service private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Westchester Artif
 PETERS-Milton. August 20, 1920 to December 31, 2002. AKA ''The Senator''. Loved his family, animals, good jokes, progressive politics, history, walking and observing the human condition. A smart, kind, thoughtful and gentle soul. We will miss him.       
 PISACANE-Vincent, age 57, of NYC, on 16th December, 2002. Always loved and deeply mourned by his wife, Kate (Nolan) Pisacane, and their children, Catherine, 22, Cordelia, 16, Vincent, 13 and Eve, 11.       
 SILVA-Fabio. Antique dealer on the Upper East Side of Manhattan passed away on January 1, 2003, from complications of cardiac arrest, suffered while jogging in Central Park. Mr. Silva was born in Recife, Brazil on July 5, 1963. He received his Fine Arts degree from Hunter College. Mr. Silva
 SILVERBUSH-Seymour Herbert, on December 29, 2002. Born August 12, 1916, in NYC. Retired independent businessman, union organizer, and veteran of WWII. Beloved husband of Elsie Wagner Silverbush for 62 years. Devoted and loving father of Jeffrey and Michael, and father-in-law of Andrea, Leno
 SOLOMON - George. The partners of Kronish Lieb Weiner & Hellman LLP mourn the passing of our beloved partner, teacher and friend, George Solomon. George was a lawyer's lawyer whose intellectual grace and personal warmth enriched our practice and our lives. We extend our condolences to his f
 WOOD-Daniel P., 88. Of Midlothian, Virginia, formerly of Delray Beach, Florida and Locust Valley, New York died January 1, 2003. He was preceded in death by his wife Edna M. Wood. Survivors include two sons, Donald C. Wood and his wife Janet and Roy G. Wood and his wife Nancy and four grand
 Al Bart, an all-American tackle on the Seven Blocks of Granite, Fordham University's famed football line of the 1930's, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Kettering, Ohio. He was 87. In the 1920's, Notre Dame had the Four Horsemen backfield and Illinois had the Galloping Ghost, R
 GINOTT - GINSBURG - David. A Greenwich resident passed away at the Westchester Medical Center on Wednesday, January 1, 2003 after having suffered a heart attack. He was 58. Born in Tel Aviv, Israel on August 30, 1944. He was the son of the late Abraham and Gela Ginsburg. Mr. Ginott was Pres
 KOMITEE - Manny. We mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and former Board member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Jay L. Ivler, President Mount Lebanon Cemetery       
 McCORMACK - Clement Royal. Mutual of America and its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn the passing of our former Executive Vice President and Treasurer, Clem McCormack. Clem was a beloved friend whose contributions during his 16 years of service help
 SILVA-Fabio. Antique dealer on the Upper East Side of Manhattan passed away on January 1, 2003, from complications of cardiac arrest, suffered while jogging in Central Park. Mr. Silva was born in Recife, Brazil on July 5, 1963. He received his Fine Arts degree from Hunter College. Mr. Silva
 SINGER-Burton J. On January 2, 2003. Loving and much loved husband of Betsy (nee Abel) and the late Marcia Gerstein. Adored father of Jill, Mark and Lisa Singer. Wonderful and magical Poppy to Morgan Alexa and Kendall Brooke. Cherished brother of Felice Gritz, uncle of Lloyd and Barrie, and
 STOLZAR - Marjorie. Be loved mother of Peter and Joanna, Michael and Karen and Andrew and Joan. ''Adopted'' mother of Kenneth and Susan Aronson. Loving grandmother of Samuel, David, Matthew, Lauren and Scott and ''adopted'' grandmother of Heather and Rachel. Dear cousin of Fran Light. Servi
 TANNENBAUM-Anne Seltzer. On Jan. 1 at 90 years of Gloucester, Massachusetts, formerly of Bronx, New York. Wife of the late Philip Seltzer and Joseph Tannenbaum. Mother of Marlene Seltzer of Gloucester. Sister-in-law of Sidney Seltzer and his wife Carol of Brooklyn. Retired Teaching Assistan
 Sid Gillman, the longtime professional and college football coach who was considered a master of the passing game, died yesterday morning in Los Angeles. He was 91. ''Sid Gillman was the father of modern-day passing,'' said Al Davis, the prominent pro football figure who served as G
 Sydney Omarr, an astrologer whose divinations were available in more than 200 newspapers, in 13 books a year and on a pay-per-call phone line, died on Thursday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications of a heart attack, The Associated Press report
 José Maria Gironella, a Spanish author who won praise in the United States for his fiction set in Spain during its civil war, died on Friday at home in Arenys de Mar, near Barcelona. He was 85. Mr. Gironella fought in the Spanish Civil War on the side of Franco. Robert Payn
 Mohammed al-Fassi, an in-law of the Saudi royal family who won fame by turning a Beverly Hills mansion into an eyesore, died on Dec. 24 in Cairo. He was 50. His death was reported this week in Los Angeles by Marvin M. Mitchelson, the divorce lawyer representing one of his wives, She
 ACCIANI-Daniel. On January 3, 2003. WWII veteran of Iwo Jima, 4th Marines. Survived by his wife Marie, Irvington, NY; children Judith, Michael and Robert; five grandchildren; sisters Marie and Joan, brother Alfonse. Funeral Wednesday, 10 AM, Immaculate Conception Church, Irvington, NY. Visi
 CARROLL-Joe Sr. Age 85, died on January 1, 2003 in Manhattan of complications from Alzheimer's disease. His 65-year career as a drummer, orchestra leader & theatrical producer spanned the 1930's thru the 1990's including numerous performances at NY's Waldorf Astoria, The Plaza, St. Regis an
 CREEDON-Richard S. 75. Died peacefully at his home in Chatham, MA, on the afternoon of December 31, 2002. Born in Pittsburgh, PA, raised in Winchester, MA, and a longtime resident of Stamford, CT, he was the beloved husband of Joan Leader Creedon for 48 years. He is held in loving memory by
 EYRE-Major General Sir James, KCVO, CBE, of East Garston, Berkshire, England, died January 3, following a brief illness. He leaves his wife, Monica; children, Major James Eyre, Annabelle Eyre; daughter-in-law, Sophie Eyre; and grandchildren, Hugo and Isabelle Eyre; brothers, Edward, Peter a
 FREAS-Charles Henry Jr., 67 on January 2, 2003 after a long illness. A retired associate general counsel of Nabisco, USA. He is survived by his wife Armina, daughters Dianna and Melanie, son Whitney & grandson Jackson Bishop. A memorial service will be held in the spring.       
 FRUCHTMAN-Arthur. Metropolitan Lithotriptor Associates and the Board of Directors Allied Urological Services extend condolences toChief Executive Officer Bernard Fruchtman, MD, on the death of his brother. John Fracchia, MD Andrew J. McGowan, Jr., MD David Mandel       
 GINOTT - GINSBURG - David. A Greenwich resident passed away at the Westchester Medical Center on Wednesday, January 1, 2003 after having suffered a heart attack. He was 58. Born in Tel Aviv, Israel on August 30, 1944. He was the son of the late Abraham and Gela Ginsburg. Mr. Ginott was Pres
 GOLD-Milton J. Hunter College notes with sorrow the passing of our distinguished colleague and friend. Retired in 1975 as Dean of Education, he brought wisdom and commitment to our students and faculty. Jennifer J. Raab, President Hunter College, CUNY       
 HEINLY - Theodore (Ted) Henry Sr. Of Ruskin, FL, age 86, died December 31, 2002 after a long illness. Husband of Anne Briscoe Heinly, who survives and formerly of the late Edna Romig Heinly. Brother of Gladys Mack of Tuscon, AZ, Robert of Ruskin FL, Frederick of Castroville, CA, Phyllis Lan
 KESSLER-Chester. Devoted husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Larry, Wilma Kaye and Elynne Marcus. Dear brother of Alice Epstein. Cherished grandfather of Ross and Robin Kaye and Matthew Marcus. Services Monday, 12 noon at ''The Riverside'', 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon. KESSLE
 KUHN-Dr. Charles III. Age 69, December 29. Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Brown University, retired Chief of Pathology, Memorial Hospital of Rhode Island. Husband of Nobuko (Obayashi) Kuhn, father of Heather, Holly, and the late Carla Kuhn, brother of Sally Kuhn. Memorial service is on We
 LeBRE-Kerry X. Of Greenville, S.C., died of lung cancer on December 30, at the age of 54. He was dearly loved by his niece, Yvette, & her husband, Michael Davis, and by his many friends in New York City, Florida, California, Arizona, Ecuador & South Carolina. His devoted friend, David Maize
 LIEBMAN-Jim. Age 96. Died December 29, 2002. Longtime resident of Tucson, AZ. Loving husband. Beloved father of Jerry and daughterin - law Ellen. Cherished grandfather of Hannah. Also survived by adoring nieces and nephews. The last of his generation, he will be missed.       
 MASINO-Frank D. A longtime resident of Green Brook, N.J. Died on December 28, 2002. Mr. Masino was predeceased by his loving wife, Faye and loving grandson Gabriel. Mr. Masino is survived by his loving daughters Marilyne and Gerardine and loving grandson Matthew. For many years Mr. Masino w
 MELE-Edward Victor. On Janury 1, 2003, at age 84. Of Barneveld NY, New York NY, Southampton, NY, Palm Beach, FL, and Jamaica, W.I. Beloved husband of Robbin, loving father to Peter Mele, Victoria Zacek, Dina Nemeth and Lara McLanahan. Grandfather to Justin, Nate, Erica, Nicholas, Annabelle,
 ROTHSTEIN-Jesse. Of Purchase, NY, age 68, January 3, 2003, after a long decline from Alzheimer's disease. He died with his family around him. He is survived by his wife Polly Rothstein, their daughter Amy Rothstein and Daniel Melnechuk, and their son Chester Rothstein and Frances Barone. A 
 SINGER-Burton J. On January 2, 2003. Loving and much loved husband of Betsy (nee Abel) and the late Marcia Gerstein. Adored father of Jill, Mark and Lisa Singer. Wonderful and magical Poppy to Morgan Alexa and Kendall Brooke. Cherished brother of Felice Gritz, uncle of Lloyd and Barrie, and
 SKAKEL - Rushton Walter. 79, of Hobe Sound passed away, Thursday, January 2, 2003, at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center. Born in Chicago, IL, he was a long time resident of Greenwich, CT before moving to Hobe Sound, FL in 1993. He attended Amherst College and graduated from Georgetown Unive
 SUNA-Joel. Of Malverne, NY. On January 4, 2003 in his home in his 93rd year. Beloved husband of Eleanor Torge Suna and father to Linda Moliver, Nada Mazurek and Carla Suna Nolte. Dear father-in-law to Gary, Bob and Chris. Loving grandfather of seven. Devoted brother to Gladys, Rosalie, Fran
 BIANCHI-Paul J. Passed away December 28, 2002. He is survived by his parents Rose and Paul of Queens, and his children John, Tom and Kelly of Clearwater, FL, and Christa of Brooklyn.       
 GOLDBERG-Manny. Age 76, died on January 4, 2003. Survived by his wife Karen, mother-in-law, six children, and eight grandchildren, daughters-in-law and son-inlaw and sister Clare. He is deeply mourned by his family and will be missed by all who knew him.       
 GROSS-Harry H. Survived by his wife Beatrice, daughter Stacy, son Lynn, and three grandchildren.       
 KAHN-Robert S. On January 4, 2003, in Boca Raton, FL. Husband for over 50 years to Dorothy Hausman Kahn, companion for nine years to Claire Bleiberg Schacht; father of Stephen and Michael Kahn and Susan Kowalski; former resident of Scarsdale, NY; Greenwich, CT, and Palm Beach, FL; member of
 KESSLER-Chester. We shall always cherish the memory of his warm and true friendship. Joan and Tom Herzfeld Jeanne and Al Rosen       
 KLINGENSTEIN - Paul. Of Scarsdale, NY, and Longboat Key, FL, died peacefully at home on January 5, 2003, at age 88. He was surrounded by his cherished family. Loving and dearly loved husband of Selma for 56 years, devoted father of Dr. R. James Klingenstein (Susanne) and Irene Hess. Adored 
 MECHANIC - Dr. Mayer, D.D.S. The ''Mayer'' of HoHo-Kus. Although he was a man of prodigious energy who was hardly sick a day in his life, Mayer Mechanic, D.D.S., died on Saturday, January 4, 2003, of complications from a sudden stroke. He was 85 years old. He attended University of Michigan
 NELSON - Dr. Bernard. Passed away January 4, 2003. A distinguished and dedicated dentist in Mount Vernon, NY, for more than 50 years. The son of Nathan and Sarah Nelson. Devoted husband of Ruth. Father of Peter and Linda, and of his late daughter Teddie Nelson Wieland. Grandfather of Eric. 
 ROTH-Joseph Howard. 75, of Boynton Beach, FL. Joseph was a Navy veteran and worked many years as a furrier. The center of Joe's life was his family. He was a caring and generous man who made people laugh until the very end. He is survived by his wife Lila (nee Getz), sons Richard (Edith) an
 Patrick J. Murphy, a former senior police official in New York who helped organize the city-federal Joint Terrorist Task Force and is credited with many policing innovations, including the use of nonlethal weapons for encounters with emotionally disturbed people, died Saturday at New York P
 Roy Jenkins, a Welsh miner's son who became a Socialist cabinet minister and president of the European Commission in Brussels and then tried to break the mold of British politics by creating a new governing party of the center, died yesterday at his home in Oxfordshire, his family said. He 
 BRODSKY-Leonard. Passed away January 5, 2003 at age 76, after a short illness. A commanding presence, Lenny touched many lives with his intelligence, compassion, and humor. He will remain a strong and positive influence to those who knew and loved him. Loving husband of Blossom (nee Kornblu
 FARKAS-Dr. Ervin. Who lived life on his own terms, sharing his intellect and acute insight into the human condition with those fortunate enough to cross his path, passed away on January 5, 2003. A Holocaust survivor, who, as President of the World Federation of Hungarian Jews, dedicated his
 FESSLER-Frederic. Died at 79, Dec. 31, 2002. A veteran of 40 years with TWA, he'll be missed by the loving family that was the center of his life and included his wife Susan, his daughters Emma and Laurie, their husbands Dr. Stuart Bernstein and Danny Friedmann, and his grandchildren Jonath
 HARPEL-Peter. The family of Dr. Peter C. Harpel announce with sorrow his passing on January 4, 2003 from complications of cardiac surgery in his 68th year. A memorial service will be held at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue and 65th Street at 11AM on Friday, January 10. In lieu of flowers, ple
 KING-Hon. Martin E. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Hon. Martin E. King. A member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 KLINGENSTEIN - Paul. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem note with profound sorrow the loss of Paul Klingenstein, a dedicated American Friend. Paul and his wife Selma have been long time supporters and Benefactors of the University. Through their
 LITZ-Arthur. At age 91. Beloved husband of the late Jeannette. Cherished father of Barbara (Jerry) Lavinsky, Ronny (Gloria) Litz and Steve (Nora) Litz. Adored grandfather of Jennifer, Wendy, Ivan, Jordan, Alexandra, Julia, Pia and Sean. Greatgrandfather of Olivia Rose. Loving brother of Irv
 MARTIN-Roger W. Died on January 4. Son of John and Gloria. He is survived by his son John and daughter-in-law Doris, his daughter Stacey, his brother Stephen, and his grandchildren Charlotte and Johnny. At John Krtil, 1297 1st Ave, Wednesday 2-4 & 7-9PM.       
 MECHANIC - Mayer, DDS. The Officers and Directors of Realty Foundation of New York, extend their heartfelt condolences to Jonathan and the entire Mechanic family on the loss of cherished husband, father, and grandfather. May the personal memories of their shared lives bring a lightness to t
 PILCHIK-Rabbi Ely E. Of West Orange, NJ. Beloved husband of Harriet Perlmutter Pilchik and the late Ruth S. Pilchik. Devoted father of Judith P. Zucker and Susan P. Rosenbaum, dear stepfather of Franklin and David Perlmutter and Genesia Kamen, adored grandfather of Adam Louis, Tanya Beth, M
 ROSEN-Saul. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member, Saul Rosen. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan Emeritus Toni Wiener, President       
 ROWAN-John Patrick, Lt. Col., USAF (Ret.). The JAG Chapter of ROA records, with profound sorrow, the passing of its esteemed guiding member, ''JP.'' He will be remembered for his patriotism, integrity, honor and loyalty to his friends. Condolences to his daughters Kathleen and Maureen, his 
 SEIDEL-Samuel B. On January 5, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor (Tanzer), devoted son of the late Charles and Millie B. Seidel. Services are at Union Field Cemetery of Congregation Rodeph Sholom on Tuesday, January 7 at 1:45 P.M. Kindly omit flowers. SEIDEL-Samuel B. Congre
 SWARTZBACK - Raymond H., Rev., D.D. Pastor Emeritus First Presbyterian Church, Jamaica, New York. Raymond H. Swartzback, 79, an urban pastor who was a champion for social justice and was active in the struggle for civil rights died December 14, 2002, after a brief illness. He was a man who 
 WEXLER-Jack. The trustees and staff of the North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System mourn the passing of our friend and benefactor, Jack Wexler, and extend our heartfelt condolences to Ann and Robert Fromer and his entire family. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael Dowling, Pres & CEO No
 Conrad L. Hall, a Hollywood cinematographer with a bohemian's soul and an artist's obsessiveness, who was nominated for nine Oscars and won two of them, three decades apart, died on Saturday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76 and split his time between a vintage penthouse just off the Sunset
 F. William Free, an advertising executive who attracted passengers to National Airlines and protesters to his agency with one of his best-known campaigns, ''I'm Cheryl -- Fly Me,'' died on Jan. 1 at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 74, and lived in Millbrook, N.Y.      
 Harry Woolf, a historian of science who, as director of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, helped triple its endowment, died at his home in Princeton on Monday. He was 79. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, the institute announced. Appointed head
 CARR-Thomas W., 84. Long time resident of Port Washington, NY died on January 5th in Rockville, MD. His publishing and advertising career was with Computer Decisions, Electronic Design, 50 Plus Magazines and AdWeek's Marketer's Guide to Media. He is survived by his wife, Agnes, son John and
 FALK-Isidore. With love and great sadness, we mourn the passing of Isidore (''Issie'') Falk on January 6, 2003, beloved husband of the late Anne Falk, cherished father of Serafina (Melvin), Rebecca (John), Maurice (Judi) and the late Michael (Barbara), adored grandfather of Nathaniel (Esthe
 HARPEL-Peter. The family of Dr. Peter C. Harpel announce with sorrow his passing on January 4, 2003 from complications of cardiac surgery in his 68th year. A memorial service will be held at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue and 65th Street at 11AM on Friday, January 10. In lieu of flowers, ple
 KAHN-Robert. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Ronald M. Stuart, President Joyce Baumgarten, Sec'y       
 KLINGENSTEIN - Paul. Of Scarsdale, NY, and Longboat Key, FL, died peacefully at home on January 5, 2003, at age 88. He was surrounded by his cherished family. Loving and dearly loved husband of Selma for 56 years, devoted father of Dr. R. James Klingenstein (Susanne) and Irene Hess. Adored 
 LEVEY-Arthur J., 79. San Diego, CA. formerly of NYC. Died January 6, 2003. Husband of Marsha, father of Sue Levey, Jayne Charles and her husband Stan, and Randee Weinberger, brother of Martin, uncle, grandfather, stepfather and friend. He will be forever loved and always remembered with tea
 MECHANIC-Mayer, D.D.S. Dear Jon, we know your Dad will always be with you, not only on your walks around the lake, but also all your walks through life. With love, Bonnie, Mitchell, Scott and Ben Rudin MECHANIC - Mayer. The principals of Newmark & Company Real Estate would like to e
 O'KEEFE-John. On January 7, 2003. He was 76. Loving brother of Peggy Jonas. Friends and family may call at The Riverdale Funeral Home, 5044 Broadway, at 214 St. NYC Wed., 3 to 8 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Margaret of Cortona Church, 5940 Riverdale Ave at 260th St., Bronx, N.Y. Thur
 SCHUSSLER-Albert. American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra's Board of Directors and staff and the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra mourn the loss of our past president (1989-1996) and one of our Principal Benefactors, Albert Schussler. Al was critical to the growth and professiona
 VAN PELT-Charles Bingham Penrose. Died on January 2, 2003, at Palm Beach, FL. Born May 2, 1922 in Philadelphia. He was predeceased in death by his father Andrew Van Pelt, his mother Sarah Hannah Boles Penrose Van Pelt and his sister Sarah Hannah Boles Penrose Van Pelt. He was graduated from
 Rabbi Ely Emanuel Pilchik, a scholar of Judaism who retired in 1981 as senior rabbi of Congregation B'nai Jeshurun in Short Hills, N.J., died on Monday at a nursing home in West Orange, N.J. He was 89 and formerly lived in Short Hills. He became spiritual leader at Congregation B'na
 CARR-Thomas W., 84. Long time resident of Port Washington, NY died on January 5th in Rockville, MD. His publishing and advertising career was with Computer Decisions, Electronic Design, 50 Plus Magazines and AdWeek's Marketer's Guide to Media. He is survived by his wife, Agnes, son John and
 FALK-Isidore. With love and great sadness, we mourn the passing of Isidore (''Issie'') Falk on January 6, 2003 at age 99. Beloved husband of the late Anne Falk. Cherished father of Serafina (Melvyn), Rebecca (John), Maurice (Judi) and the late Michael (Barbara). Adored grandfather of Nathan
 HARPEL-Peter. The family of Dr. Peter C. Harpel announce with sorrow his passing on January 4, 2003 from complications of cardiac surgery in his 68th year. A memorial service will be held at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue and 65th Street at 11AM on Friday, January 10. In lieu of flowers, ple
 HORN-Mortimer. The 7th District Purple Association records with profound sorrow the loss of our distinguished Masonic Brother and colleague on January 8th, 2003. He will be missed. George Abraham, President       
 ROFFE-Simon D. Born December 4, 1918, died January 7, 2003. He will never be forgotten. The family will sit shivah in Brooklyn. Survived by his wife Harriet, his sister Flora Ingber, his children, Rachell Roffe Sirota, David Roffe, and Saul Roffe, and his grandchildren, Simon D. Roffe, Harr
 SCHUSSLER-Albert. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club note with sadness the passing of our former member, Albert Schussler and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Claire, his son Harvey, his daughter-in-law Justine and his family. Ronald M. Stuar
 WILZIG-Siggi B. The Wilzig Family joins the people of Trust Company of NJ in mourning the loss of our patriarch and chairman. His contribution to the Bank, to NJ and to the world community is immeasurable and will be long remembered. As I have mentioned of my father before, his life was an 
 Richard Mohr, who capped off a career as a producer of opera records by running the Metropolitan Opera broadcast's much-loved intermission programs for more than a decade, died on Nov. 23 in West Milford, N.J. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack he suffered in a nursing home, sa
 Siggi B. Wilzig, a Holocaust survivor who arrived penniless in the United States after World War II and went on to lead an oil company and a bank, died on Tuesday at Columbia- Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. The cause was multiple myel
 Albert I. Edelman, a top international lawyer in New York and a former law partner of Senator Jacob K. Javits and of John J. McCloy, died yesterday at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Bronxville and East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was complica
 John Cole, an author, conservationist and co-founder of Maine Times, a spirited weekly newspaper that championed the environment and doggedly kept tabs on state and local government, died of cancer on Wednesday at his home in Brunswick, Me. He was 79. Maine Times, which Mr. Cole fou
 CARR-Thomas W. It is with great sadness that we mourn our dear friend and neighbor, Tom. Our families shared life's joys and sorrows for over 40 years, and we extend our heartfelt sympathy to Agnes, John and Louise, Jimmy and Robin, and Pete. We will miss his witty and stimulating discussio
 CERVONI-Paul V., 64. Husband of Mary K. Birdsall Cervoni of North Haven, CT. English teacher, former Chairman of the English Dept. at Trumbull High School, Trumbull, CT, twice made a National Center of Excellence in English. Paul was Chairman of the CT Council of Teachers of English and was
 CHURCHWELL - Gordon Lee, 44. In Cold Spring, NY, on January 8. Beloved husband of Julie Metz and adoring father of daughter Olivia Ella. Son of Gordon and CC. Churchwell, brother of John, Soonhi, Bong-Eui and YongEui. Uncle of Hyun Joo, nieces and nephews. Author of Harper Collins' ''Expect
 CLICK-Philip. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Queens Borough Public Library mourn the passing of a dear friend and colleague. He was a tireless advocate for literacy and strengthened Queens Library with his wisdom and leadership. He served as a library Trustee from 1973 until his dea
 EDELMAN-Albert I. The Rockefeller University community is deeply saddened by the passing of our cherished friend, Albert Edelman, a dedicated member of the RU Council for the past decade. His generous support of the University's mission has made possible many advances in biomedical research
 FALK-Isidore. With love and great sadness, we mourn the passing of Isidore (''Issie'') Falk on January 6, 2003 at age 99. Beloved husband of the late Anne Falk. Cherished father of Serafina (Melvyn), Rebecca (John), Maurice (Judi) and the late Michael (Barbara). Adored grandfather of Nathan
 GASTON-Godfrey Olivier./d Of Reseda, CA, died December 11, 2002, age 74. In New York he was a research librarian at the Knoedler Gallery, 1955-1965, then Director of Research at the Kennedy Galleries. Moving to California in the 1970s, he was Director of the Howard Morseburg Galleries and t
 LAUREN-Charles B., 95. Of North Branford, CT, Dorset, VT and formerly of Bronxville, NY, died peacefully on December 31st in North Branford. Beloved husband of the late Priscilla Lauren, father of Cynthia Zellmer of Golden, CO and Clark Lauren of Sarasota, FL, and grandfather of Matthew Zel
 PICKETT-David, died January 8th in Belleair Beach, FL. Formerly of Croton-on-Hudson, NY. Husband of Bernice. Father of Neil and Jane. Grandfather of Emily, Claire, Sam and Alex. He loved NYC.       
 SCHUSSLER-Albert. We are saddened over the sudden loss of our good friend, Al Schussler, member of our Founders Society and longstanding supporter. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Claire, and the entire Schussler family. May his memory be for a blessing. Irwin Hochberg
 STERN-Gershon. The Yeshiva University family and Canadian Friends of Yeshiva University are deeply grieved by the passing of our beloved, longtime friend and distinguished leader who for more than 25 years was a member of the YU Board of Trustees. He also served as National President of Can
 VOUTSAS-George, 91. On January 2, 2003, in Carmel, CA. Director and producer for NBC Monitor, Toscanini's NBC Symphony Orchestra, and Glen Miller's Band during W.W. II. Survived by his wife Margery Mayer Voutsas, brother Diamond Cooper, sons Christopher and Gregory, daughter Alexandra Kornr
 WOOLF-Harry. The Board of Directors of Research America honors the life of its Board member emeritus, Harry Woolf, Ph.D., whose devotion to medical research resulted in scholarship and advocacy for research that will extend the life and health of all Americans. We extend our condolences to 
 Thomas H. Wyman, a former chairman and chief executive of CBS who resigned his membership in the Augusta National Golf Club last month to protest its refusal to admit women, died on Wednesday in Boston. He was 73. The cause was complications of an abdominal infection, his son, Micha
 Dr. George Van Brunt Cochran, an orthopedic surgeon, mountaineer and former president of the Explorers Club in New York, whose specialty was climbing uncharted Arctic mountains, died on Monday in Ossining, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was complications arising from Parkinson's disease,
 BADER-Mortimer E., 80. Healer of thousands. Brilliant doctor, research scientist, teacher; beloved father and grandfather. Passed away Thursday night after braving Parkinson's disease for over three decades. Mortimer Eugene Bader, M.D., worked his way from humble roots to lead a distinguish
 COHEN - Myer. A distin guished United Nations official died, January 8, 2003 in Newtown, PA. at the age of 95. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Elson Cohen. Cherished father of Arthur E. Cohen of Worcester, MA. and Judith C. Kretzmann of Washington, D.C. Devoted grandfather of three and great g
 FALK-Isidore. With love and great sadness, we mourn the passing of Isidore (''Issie'') Falk on January 6, 2003 at age 99. Beloved husband of the late Anne Falk. Cherished father of Serafina (Melvyn), Rebecca (John), Maurice (Judi) and the late Michael (Barbara). Adored grandfather of Nathan
 GREENBLAT-Dr. Bernard, 90. In Carson City, NV on January 5th. Formerly of Great Neck, NY. Specialized as OBGYN on Long Island. Predeceased by his beloved wife, Gertrude Greenblat. Survived by daughter, Deborah Miller (Paul) and son, David Greenblat (Mary), grandchildren, Dylan Greenblat and
 IRVING-Michael H. Of Westport, CT., and Martha's Vineyard, MA, died January 7, at age 79 of complications of Parkinson's Disease. A Navy veteran of W.W. II, and designer of many residential and commercial properties in New England and elsewhere, he was consulting architect of The Whitney Mu
 SHUKAT-Scott. Beloved husband of Evelyn Shukat, M.D. Devoted father of Jonathan. Dear son of Harry and Florence Shukat. Loving brother of Peter and Yvette Shukat and Susan Kasten. Adoring uncle. Service 10am Sunday at ''The Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Ave, NYC. In lieu of flowers pleas
 SOFFER-Paul E., M.D., 78. Of Lake Worth, Florida and North Shore Towers, Long Island. With love and sadness we mourn the passing of Paul Soffer on January 7, 2003. Beloved husband of Babette Weil Soffer for 55 years. Cherished father of Dr. Robin Soffer Sternberg and Debra Ornan, adored gra
 ZAINO-Costantino, M.D., 96, of Tuckahoe, died on January 9, 2003. He was a graduate of NYU Medical School. For information regarding visitation, Mass time and place, interment and contributions call Westchester Funeral Home, Inc., 914-337-4585       
 Will McDonough, a powerful voice of sports journalism at The Boston Globe since 1960, died Thursday at his home in Hingham, Mass. The cause of death was not determined. He was 67. Mr. McDonough had a mild heart attack last month followed by an angioplasty. Hours before his death, he
 C. Douglas Dillon, a versatile Wall Street financier who was named secretary of the Treasury by President Kennedy and ambassador to France under President Eisenhower, and was a longtime executive of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died Friday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. 
 Howard Dressner, who retired in 1984 as general counsel of the Ford Foundation, died on Dec. 31 at New York University Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Peter Cooper Village. Mr. Dressner joined the Ford Foundation in 1964 as a domestic affairs assistant and program officer in 
 BADER-Mortimer, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Dr. Mortimer Bader, whose remarkable career at Mount Sinai covered almost half a century. Upon arriving at Mount Sinai in 1946, Dr. Bader, along with his brother Richa
 BALDWIN-William H. At the age of 82 on December 23, 2002. Dearly loved and loving husband, father, brother and granddad. Survived by his wife Margot, sons Glenn and Mark, brothers Charles and Paul (Billingham), sister Elizabeth Rowland, grandchildren Matthew and Dana and a host of friends. 
 BECKER - Mortimer. The Board of Trustees of the AGMA Retirement Plan and AGMA Health Fund mourn the passing, on January 2, 2003, of their friend and legal counsel for over twenty years. Morty's diplomacy and wonderful sense of humor will live on in our memories. The Trustees and staff exten
 COCHRAN - George Van Brunt, MD. Died January 6 at home in Ossining NY. Born in Brooklyn, he attended Poly Prep, Dartmouth and College of P&S, Columbia University. He was Director of Orthopaedic Engineering Research Center, Helen Hayes Hospital, West Haverstraw, NY. He had a lifelong interes
 DEAN-George A. The Women's Campaign Fund notes with great sadness the death of George Dean, on January 10, 2003. He was an outstanding Board member and we will miss him every day. Women's Campaign Fund       
 DILLON-C. Douglas. 93 of Hobe Sound, FL. Beloved husband of Susan, father of Phyllis D. Collins and Joan Duchesse de Mouchy, grandfather of Joan Frost, Ambika Collins, Mark Collins, Douglas Collins, Charlotte Cunningham, Robert Luxembourg and 15 great-grandchildren, died on January 10, afte
 EDELMAN-Albert I. Our family mourns, with my sisterin-law Eleanor Edelman and her children Gwen, Thomas, Jennifer and Cornelia, and grandchildren Elizabeth and Eleanor, the loss of my dear brother Albie. A star has fallen but it will live forever in our minds' eyes as we recall his quick re
 ELIASBERG-Harold. 88, a longtime resident of Sands Point, died in Phoenix, AZ, on January 10, 2003. He is survived by his wife Svea (Singer), his daughter Peggy (Cochran), his grandson Christopher (Cochran) and his brother Jay. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Cornell University i
 EPSTEIN-Murray, (December 28, 2002, Ellenville, NY). It was he, and Jennie, his mother, whose spirit infused the ''Villa'' - where friendships were made and renewed. We are grateful. His Friends and Family       
 HELD-Julius. A towering art historian of the 20th century, humane scholar and brilliant connoisseur of Dutch and Flemish painting, Died on December 22. He inspired students at Barnard and Columbia, where he taught for over thirty years. A symposium in his memory will be held at Barnard in t
 IRVING-Michael H. Of Westport, CT., and Martha's Vineyard, MA, died January 7, at age 79 of complications of Parkinson's Disease. A Navy veteran of W.W. II, and designer of many residential and commercial properties in New England and elsewhere, he was consulting architect of The Whitney Mu
 LEIBMAN-Theodore, M.D., FACOG, died in Englewood at age 64. Dr. Leibman, an obstetrician/gynecologist, will be missed by family and friends. A man larger than life itself, Dr. Leibman was dedicated to humankind and was instilled with empathy for all who touched his life. A native of South A
 MATHER - John R. The American Geographical Society family mourns the death on January 3rd of Russ Mather, whose friendship, sound judgement, and devoted service to the Society have been invaluable. As a Councilor from 1981 through 2000 and Secretary from 1983 through 2000, he earned the gra
 MEEKIN-John R. Died on January 8, 2003 at the age of 77. A retired vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, he was a warden emeritus of the Church of the Ascension, a trustee of the Church Club of New York, and a member of the University Club and the Grolier Club. He was a graduate of De
 SAPIRO-Burton Maurice. 76, of Jupiter, FL, and Lenox, MA, died peacefully on January, 10, 2003, in West Palm Beach. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Miriam and Elaine. Adoring grandfather of Max and Ellie. Devoted brother of David. Proud father-in-law of Stephen Labaton and Dan V
 SCHUSSLER-Albert. The officers and directors of Chamah, the international organization to provide education and humanitarian aid for Russian Jewry, note with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend, Albert Schussler. His contribution to Russian Jewry and the State of Israel is unparelle
 SCHWARTZ-Jonathan, 34. Musician, poet, composer died Christmas Day. He leaves grieving mother, wife and young son. His extraordinary gifts as French Hornist will be remembered through scholarship to be established at Juilliard.       
 SHUKAT-Scott. Beloved husband of Evelyn Shukat, M.D. Devoted father of Jonathan. Dear son of Harry and Florence Shukat. Loving brother of Peter and Yvette Shukat and Susan Kasten. Adoring uncle. Service 10am Sunday at ''The Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Ave, NYC. In lieu of flowers pleas
 STEIN-Jeffrey William. August 6, 1945 - January 7, 2003. Adored son of Bea Stein Tye and the late Mike Stein. Beloved brother of Jill and Alan B. Miller. Proud uncle of Marc, Marni and Abby. Devoted to his pets. Graduated from Penn State and NYU Law School. He served on the board of the Chi
 STERN-Gershon. The family of Edith Agus and the late Dr. Haim Agus joins its lifelong friends, the family of Merle Stern, in mourning the passing of Gershon, a beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend. For 50 years, the lives of the Agus and Stern families were entwined. Our hearts r
 SUSARRET-David Matias. Born in El Barrio of New York City on April 18, 1954 sadly passed away on December 18, 2002 in Santa Cruz, California. David was CEO of his own company, Caribe Submarine and Satellite Technologies. El Centro, The Puerto Rican studies department at Hunter College and C
 WEBER-Irving Guy ''Spider.'' 89, of Westhampton Beach died peacefully at home on January 6, 2003. Born September 26, 1913, in Bronx, NY to Pinky and Claire Weber. Guy was active in commercial real estate investment and development in New York City and Long Island areas. Guy is survived by h
 ZOILO-A. Marc. Of Weston, CT, passed on January 9, 2003. Retired Brooks Brothers executive, he made many outstanding contributions to the development and growth of Brooks Brothers during his 31 years with the company. Since retirement Marc was active with many civic and volunteer organizati
 Paul Klingenstein, who turned a childhood picture-taking hobby into a company that sold cameras and photographic equipment, died last Sunday at his winter home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 88, and lived in Longboat Key and Scarsdale, N.Y. In 1934, with the Nazis in power, Mr. Klinge
 D. J. Enright, a British poet, novelist and critic whose ironic, self-deprecatory, minimalist verse was admired by writers but never won much of a public following, died on Dec. 31 in London. He was 82. As a poet, Mr. Enright adopted an astringent tone laced with irony. His verses s
 Leon van Speybroeck, an astrophysicist who designed a multifaceted X-ray eye for NASA to use to scan the universe, died on Dec. 25 at a hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 67 and lived in nearby Natick. The cause was melanoma, said the Chandra X-Ray Observatory Center, in Cambridge, Ma
 Gabriel A. Almond, a political scientist who did groundbreaking research on comparative politics, political development and political culture, died on Dec. 25 in Pacific Grove, Calif. He was 91. His son Peter said the Almond family was gathered for its annual Christmas retreat at As
 Julius Held, an art historian renowned for his studies in 16th- and 17th-century Dutch and Flemish art and a longtime professor of art history at Barnard College, died on Dec. 22 at his home in Bennington, Vt. He was 97. Dr. Held was one of the last surviving members of an immensely
 Maurice Gibb, who wrote songs and sang harmonies in the Bee Gees through decades of hits and more than 120 million albums sold worldwide, died early yesterday at a hospital in Miami. He was 53 and lived in Miami. He had collapsed at his home, and a statement released to Reuters by t
 CASSUTO-Abe. The Sephardic Temple of Cedarhurst, NY records with deep regret the passing of Abe Cassuto, a Vice President of the Temple. A Founder of the Congregation, he was a very proud Jew committed to the Sephardic tradition. Condolences to his wife Bella and the entire family. May they
 DEAN-George Alden. With love and sadness we mourn the passing of George Dean of Southport, CT. Beloved husband of Jane Kentnor Dean, father of Jay Dean, Diane Dean Stocks, Jeffrey Pratt and Susan Pratt. Princeton graduate, Korea veteran, and advertising executive for over 30 years. In retir
 DILLON-C. Douglas. 93 of Hobe Sound, FL. Beloved husband of Susan, father of Phyllis D. Collins and Joan Duchesse de Mouchy, grandfather of Joan Frost, Ambika Collins, Mark Collins, Douglas Collins, Charlotte Cunningham, Robert Luxembourg and 15 great-grandchildren, died on January 10, afte
 KUHL-Johnny. Died January 10, 2003. ''Johnny, we're glad we knew ya.'' Friend, fighter, formidable foe. Master Johnny Kuhl survived by his wife Donna Tafro who shared his lust for life-she faithfully held his hand through the plight of illness into the bright light; his sister Monika Sonns;
 MEEKIN-John R. Died on January 8, 2003 at the age of 77. A retired vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, he was warden emeritus of the Church of the Ascension, a trustee of the Church Club of New York, and a member of the University Club and the Grolier Club. He was a graduate of DePa
 SHUKAT - Scott. Cherished friend and personal manager for over twenty years. I am forever grateful for his strength, honesty, loyalty, intelligence and perseverance. My family and I will always honor his memory. Our love and deepest sympathies to his wife Evelyn and his son Jonathan. Alan, 
 WALSH-Veronica R. Of Huntington, formerly of the Bronx, on January 11, 2003. Cherished wife of the late William E. Devoted mother of William and his wife Corinda. Beloved grandmother of Bridget, Liam and Aidan. Dear sister of Mary Mahoney, Helen McGowan, Kaye O'Brien. Visitation Monday, 25 
 Roger W. Martin, a restaurant consultant and a longtime associate of Joseph H. Baum at both Restaurant Associates and Windows on the World, the restaurant atop the World Trade Center, died on Jan. 4 at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was heart failur
 Ward Cuff, an All-Pro back for the Giants in the early 1940's and one of the National Football League's leading place-kickers of his era, died Dec. 24 in Vallejo, Calif. He was 90. Playing with the Giants from 1937 to 1945, Cuff teamed up with the Hall of Famers Ken Strong, Mel Hein
 Du Burns, a Democratic grass-roots politician who rose through party ranks to become the first African-American mayor of Baltimore, died on Sunday in Baltimore. He was 84. In January 1987, as City Council president, he automatically became mayor when the incumbent, William Donald Sc
 ALLEN-A. John, of Sarasota, FL, formerly of Smoke Rise, Kinnelon, NJ, died December 20, 2002. Survived by his wife Virginia Starke Bruns, daughter Joan Greene, son Wesley Allen, three grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren. Memorial service to be held at a later date.       
 CASSUTO - Abraham. De cember 25, 1917-January 10, 2003. With love and great sadness, we mourn the passing of Abe Cassuto, devoted husband, loving father, grandfather and great-grandfather. Mr. Cassuto served as Vice President of the Sephardic Temple of Cedarhurst, past President of the Seph
 DILLON-C. Douglas. The Trustees, Physicians and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend C. Douglas Dillon. As a statesman, a diplomat, an international business leader and a philanthropist, Mr. Dillon made unique contributions that have l
 GUSTAFSON-Russell. Age 55. Died January 11, 2003 in NYC. B.A., Lynchburg College, 1969; M.A., University of Virginia, 1972. A former actor, his credits included many plays and musicals at The Albemarle Playhouse in Charlottesville, VA, and the New York premiere of Mustapha Matura's ''Play M
 HOFFMAN-Charles H., 86. Of Larchmont, NY and Delray Beach, FL. With sadness we mourn his passing on January 13th, 2003. Husband of Rowena and the late Evelyn. Father of Bruce (Perry) and Mark. Grandfather of Brendan (Abby), Rennie (Steven) and David. Great-grandfather of Matthew. Stepfather
 KENNY-John A. The Board of Directors and members of La Ronde Beach Club are deeply saddened by the loss of our past President. His buoyant spirit and wise guidance will be sorely missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family.       
 KONOWE-Milton M. Attorney with Local 1199 NBF & Local 115. Photographer, sculptor, died January 10, 2003. Survived by loving wife Doris, four children; Maureen, Bonnie, Valerie and Steven, nine grandchildren, one great-grandchild, brother Joseph and sister Shirley. KONOWE-Milton. 11
 LEVINE-Leon, 85. Beloved husband of Pearl, loving father of Jane, Gale and Robert. Grandfather of five. Beloved father - in - law, uncle and friend, died on January 13, 2003. Mr. Levine was a longtime resident of Brooklyn, NY and was in the automobile business for over 55 years until his re
 McHALE-Dr. Thomas Riley. An economist and Southeast Asia expert who also advised the Saudi government in the 1970's, died December 10, 2002 at age 77. Dr. McHale was born on March 20, 1925, in Waterbury, Connecticut. He won a scholarship to attend Yale University, which he entered in 1941. 
 PROPHET-Wilson B. Jr. Peacefully died in Hospice 08 January 2003, survived by his wife Harriet, daughter Kathleen, sons Douglas and Thomas, and grandchildren Trevor and Juliana.       
 RAI-Vishva Roop. Of Parsippany, N.J. Beloved husband of Roopa, father of Ajay, brother of Kanti, Savitri, Shanta and Veena. Devoted uncle and friend. Died suddenly November 19, 2002 while on a business trip in Singapore. Funeral was held in Jaipur, India on November 23rd. Memorial service 1
 SCARANGELLO-Francis P. Devoted husband, father and Yankee fan, died on Sunday, January 12, 2003. Survived by his wife Doris, his daughter Mary Ann Tighe and her husband Dr. David Hidalgo, his son Tom Scarangello, and his wife Roxanne Donovan, and his grandchildren, Aaron and Kimberly Tighe;
 SCHNEIDER-Alan. It is with our deepest sorrow that we mourn the passing of Alan. His love for Susan, Michele, Jack and Todd will be remembered. We extend our condolences and love. Amy, Adam, Alex, Katie, Noah and Marc Gershwin       
 SHUKAT - Scott. Cherished friend and personal manager for over twenty years. I am forever grateful for his strength, honesty, loyalty, intelligence and perseverance. My family and I will always honor his memory. Our love and deepest sympathies to his wife Evelyn and his son Jonathan. Alan, 
 VON HESSERT-Frederick. Of Stuart, FL. (Formerly of Norwood, N.J.) Died January 12, 2003 at age 98. He is survived by his wife Juliane (Isa), daughters Caroline Hodge and Victoria, and stepchildren Stephen and Pauline. Retired founder and CEO of Fairmont Chemical Co. Services will be private
 WILZIG-Siggi. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the loss of Siggi B. Wilzig. A former member of the Museum's governing council, his commitment to Holocaust remembrance and education; his active support of and involvement with the Museum; and his devotion to and leadership i
 ZWICK-Baruch, 79. Benno, beloved brother, brother-inlaw, uncle and great-uncle died in Kfar Saba on January 11, 2003. Benno was a warm, funny and loving man who came to Israel on Youth Aliyah, a founding member of the Golani Brigade who served his country as a soldier and as an ambulance dr
 Dean Amadon, a renowned authority on birds of prey and former Lamont curator of birds at the American Museum of Natural History, died Sunday at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 90. Starting in 1937, Dr. Amadon spent his professional life with the museum, traveling to exotic places f
 George W. Waters, an executive who turned the American Express card into a global brand, died Saturday at his home in Fair Haven, N.J. He was 87. His son-in-law, Marc Galligan, said that Mr. Waters had been in failing health and, in December, had been in a hospital with heart proble
 DILLON-C. Douglas. The members of the Board of Directors of the French-American Foundation are greatly saddened at the passing of their venerable colleague and friend. His lifelong contributions to the French-American relationship and his steadfast and most generous support of the French-Am
 DWORKEN - Rabbi Steven M. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) express profound sorrow over the untimely passing of an esteemed and devoted leader of the Jewish community. Executive vice president of the Rabbinical Council of America, Rabbi
 EMANUEL - Louis. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 GOLDMAN - ''Mickey''. On January 14 in Queens NY. Loving brother of Belle, devoted uncle of Roberta, Penny, Joan, Audrey, Barbara and Martin. A lifelong and true patriot. Member of the military and World War II veteran, he served in the army for 59 years and was awarded a Purple Heart. Fune
 MELTZER-Stanley, 76. Of Somers, NY and Boynton Beach, FL. Devoted husband of Roslyn, loving father of Beth, Anne, Clifford and Stacy. Cherished father-in-law of Philip, Frederick, Michael and Rose. Adored grandfather of Brett, Rachel, Andrew, Lauren, Keith, Gregory, Allison, Arielle, Jordan
 MOORE-William Musgrave III, age 82, on January 6, 2003. A writer and a gentleman who enjoyed his life and lived it to the fullest. He will be remembered with joy by his wife, Marion, his son, Christopher, and everyone who knew him.       
 PIRONE-Pascal P. Died on January 11 in Lexington, KY, at the age of 95. Dr. Pirone received B.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Cornell University and was a faculty member at Cornell and Rutgers Universities prior to joining the New York Botanical Garden as plant pathologist in 1974. He lectured an
 ROCHLIS-James Joseph. On January 14, 2003. Beloved father of Susan and Jeffrey, proud grandfather of Jennifer, beloved brother of Theda Sannit, father by affection of Ellen Koerner, adoring and loving friend of Muriel Goldblatt. To the family and friends fortunate enough to have known him, 
 SCHNEIDER - Allan, M.D. Cherished husband of Susan. Loving father of Jack, Michele and Todd. Devoted son of Stella, and son-in-law of Muriel. Beloved brother of Lawrence and Arlene. Dear uncle. He lead his life with a quiet generosity and sweetness that will always be remembered and treasur
 SHUKAT - Scott. Cherished friend and personal manager for over twenty years. I am forever grateful for his strength, honesty, loyalty, intelligence and perseverance. My family and I will always honor his memory. Our love and deepest sympathies to his wife Evelyn and his son Jonathan. Alan, 
 SOLTA-Jacques, 85. Died January 13, 2003. Loving companion of the late Ruth Shapiro and son of the late Deborah Soltanitzsky. He is survived by his daughters, Nadya and Dana, grandson, Leland, sons-in-law, Dr. Barton Hoexter and Owen Wild. For over fifty years he was a member of the America
 TESSLER-Arthur N., M.D. The faculty, staff and students of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Arthur N. Tessler, M.D. An outstanding clinician, Dr. Tessler was one of the Medical Center's most accomplished urologists. Throughout his long career as a physician,
 Walter Kerr, a former foreign correspondent and a magazine publisher who was the general manager of the international edition of The New York Times in the 1960's, died on Jan. 10 in White Plains. He was 91. Mr. Kerr was born in Syracuse in 1911. He attended Yale University before be
 Sir Anthony Havelock-Allan, a British film producer and scriptwriter who worked on major British films of the 1940's like ''Brief Encounter'' and ''Great Expectations,'' died on Jan. 11 in London. He was 98 and had made his home in London. Sir Anthony inherited the title of baronet 
 David Cummins Morton II, an architect who did the first residential loft conversion in the Fulton Ferry area in Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 61 and a former resident of Brooklyn Heights. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Mo
 BOROWSKI-Elie. A giant of a man-who lived a life of scholarship, heroism, philanthropy, and family. Elie Borowswki is a world-renowned collector and scholar of monotheism's shared values, texts, and artifacts. The Borowski Collections' are world known; with the most important works housed i
 DAWSON-Carol W. Age 85, of Bridgeport, CT, formerly of Staten Island, died Jan. 6, 2003. He was an Army veteran of WWII, and Ret. Secretary of the Board for American Maritime Insurance Company. His funeral was held on Jan. 10th in CT. Memorial gifts can be directed to: The New York Public L
 DWORKEN-Rabbi Steven. We mourn the untimely death of our colleague and friend, devoted Executive Vice President of the Rabbinical Council of America, whose energies and skills were dedicated to bringing benefit and caring to rabbis and their families, whose passion was teaching Torah and wh
 KLUGE-Constantin. His wife, Suzanne Kluge, informs you of his death on January 9th, 2003 and the funeral service which took place on January 15th, 2003 at the Beauvais Crematorium (France).       
 LILIENFIELD-Robert. Died peacefully at his home after a brave battle with cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife Barbara, his devoted children Tracy, Todd and Terry, his son-in-law Barrett Heins, his grandchildren Benjamin, Kelsey, Rebecca, and his father Walter. His family, friends, an
 LITVACK-Saul. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Saul Litvack, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Florence & the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 METRINKO-Michael. NYSE trader and Wall Street legend Michael J. Metrinko missed the opening bell Monday. Michael J. was the oldest New York Stock Exchange Trader who also held the record as being the longest standing member of the NYSE. He passed away at the age of 93. ''Mike was a beloved 
 RESSNER-John W. January 9, 2003. Husband of Laura Bemben Ressner. Son of Natalie G. Ressner. Memorial service Saturday, January 18. 2 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers or gifts, donations may be made in his name to the American Heart Association
 ROCHLIS-James Joseph. On January 14, 2003. Beloved father of Susan and Jeffrey, proud grandfather of Jennifer, beloved brother of Theda Sannit, father by affection of Ellen Koerner, adoring and loving friend of Muriel Goldblatt. To the family and friends fortunate enough to have known him, 
 SCHNEIDER - Allan, M.D. Cherished husband of Susan. Loving father of Jack, Michele and Todd. Devoted son of Stella, and son-in-law of Muriel. Beloved brother of Lawrence and Arlene. Dear uncle. He lead his life with a quiet generosity and sweetness that will always be remembered and treasur
 SHUKAT - Scott. Cherished friend and personal manager for over twenty years. I am forever grateful for his strength, honesty, loyalty, intelligence and perseverance. My family and I will always honor his memory. Our love and deepest sympathies to his wife Evelyn and his son Jonathan. Alan, 
 WALTER-Otto L., 95. Of New York City, died January 12 after a brief illness. Driven from his native land by Nazi hatred, he became a powerful voice for German-American reconciliation in the decades following World War II. Disbarred by Hitler's antiJewish decrees from practicing as an attorn
 Riley D. Housewright, a microbiologist who helped direct United States research in biological warfare from World War II until 1970, died on Saturday at an assisted living center in Frederick, Md. He was 89. One of Dr. Housewright's projects in the 1960's was developing agents that c
 Robert J. Braidwood, a University of Chicago archaeologist who uncovered evidence of the beginnings of agriculture and the subsequent rise of civilization in the Middle East, died on Wednesday in Chicago. He was 95. From close to the beginning of his career, Dr. Braidwood worked in 
 DWORKEN-Rabbi Steven. Congregation Anshe Chesed of Linden, NJ mourns the passing of Rabbi Steven Dworken, our beloved former Rabbi for 24 years. Rabbi Dworken was our dear friend, confident, teacher and spiritual leader. We retained close ties even after he retired from the pulpit. Our hear
 MEIZLISH-Nathan, age 83, of Trumbull, CT., on January 16, 2003. Survived by his loving wife, Beatrice Reich Meizlish of Trumbull, CT.; his devoted son and daughter, Dr. Jay Meizlish of Weston, CT., Diane Reichlin of Jericho, NY.; cherished sister, Sara Reich of Queens, NY; also five grandch
 PRESCOTT - Jake. John Sherwin Prescott III of New York City and Barcelona, Spain, 47 years old, died in a drowning accident while vacationing with his family in the Dominican Republic on December 30, 2002. He is survived by his parents, Robin and John S. Prescott, Jr. of New York and Lovell
 RESSNER-John W. A native New Yorker and passionate patron of the arts, died on January 9 in the city he loved from complications following a stroke. He was 41. After graduating Princeton University Cum Laude in 1984 with a double major in Computer Sciences and Electrical Engineering, John r
 ROCHLIS-James Joseph. On January 14, 2003. Beloved father of Susan and Jeffrey, proud grandfather of Jennifer, beloved brother of Theda Sannit, father by affection of Ellen Koerner, adoring and loving friend of Muriel Goldblatt. To the family and friends fortunate enough to have known him, 
 SHUKAT - Scott. Cherished friend and personal manager for over twenty years. I am forever grateful for his strength, honesty, loyalty, intelligence and perseverance. My family and I will always honor his memory. Our love and deepest sympathies to his wife Evelyn and his son Jonathan. Alan, 
 WALTER - Otto L. The Trustees and Staff of the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies (AICGS) are deeply saddened by the death of its longtime supporter and friend, Dr. Otto L. Walter. Dr. Walter joined the Institute in 1994 as a Trustee to continue his lifelong support of the G
 WHEELOCK - James T.S. Died on December 28 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York of complications from leukemia, for which he had undergone a bone-marrow transplant in March. Born in Wilmington, Delaware, in 1943, Mr. Wheelock attended the Tower Hill School and the Canterbury Scho
 KLEIN-Felix. Jan. 17, 1911July 26, 1994. Founder, National Society for Graphology. The memory of his profound kindness and wisdom inspires us still. Janice       
 Charles Sternberg, a refugee from Nazi persecution in Czechoslovakia and France who went on to head the International Rescue Committee, the largest private American organization helping international refugees, died on Thursday in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 91. From 1965 to 1985, M
 FISHER - Michael T. We mourn the passing of Michael T. Fisher, beloved son of Steven and Elissa Fisher. We extend our deepest sympathy to his mother and father, and to his sisters, Jamie Rose and Natalia Lyn, and his brother Kyle Robert, during this painful time. Bill White Col. Tom Tyrrell
 FISHER-Michael Tyler. Born August 31, 1990, passed away Friday, January 17, 2003. Beloved son of Steven and Elissa Fisher and brother of Jamie-Rose, Kyle Robert and Natalia Lyn. A student at Horace Mann Academy, Michael was a scholar who truly excelled in all forms of creative expression. H
 MACLEOD-Robert F., 85, of Malibu, CA on January 13. He is survived by his wife Louise, three sons, Robert Jr., Edward J.W., Ian D.; and a daughter Merrill Stenbeck, and ten grandchildren.       
 ROCHLIS-James Joseph. On January 14, 2003. Beloved father of Susan and Jeffrey, proud grandfather of Jennifer, beloved brother of Theda Sannit, father by affection of Ellen Koerner, adoring and loving friend of Muriel Goldblatt. To the family and friends fortunate enough to have known him, 
 Will Cloney, a former sportswriter and journalism professor who transformed the Boston Marathon from an all-amateur rite of spring to a world-class prize-money production and lost his job as race director doing it, died Thursday in a hospital in Weymouth, Mass. He was 91 and lived in Duxbur
 Douglas Herrick, who gets both the credit and the blame for perhaps the tackiest totem of the American West, the jackalope -- half bunny, half antelope and 100 percent tourist trap -- died on Jan. 6 in Casper, Wyo. He was 82. The cause was bone and lung cancer, his brother, Ralph, s
 John M. Fox, a founder and president of the Minute Maid Corporation, which developed frozen orange juice concentrate in the late 1940's and made it popular within a decade, died on Jan. 9 in Winter Park, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Winter Park. At the end of World War II, Mr. Fox an
 AGNEW-George Bliss Jr. Of Kennebunkport, ME, and Vero Beach, FL, died Monday January 13, 2003, at his home in Vero Beach. He was born in Mt. Kisco, NY on September 9, 1909, son of George Bliss and Emily Dutilh Agnew. He graduated from Haverford in 1928, and Princeton University in 1932, wit
 CHANWICK-Michael T. Artist, retired director of graphics and design for the Girlscouts U.S.A., died January 6, 2003. Beloved husband and father. He is survived by his loving wife Mary, two daughters Joan Dale and Mary Elizabeth and their husbands John Richards and Paul Sente.       
 COHEN-Jay Michael. 65, of New York City, on January 17. Beloved husband and best friend of Helen. Loving father of Larry and Andy. Caring father-in-law of Martha and Donna. Proud grandfather (Pops) of Teddy. Devoted brother of June Yohay and dear brother-in-law of Leonard Yohay and Arlene a
 DAVIDSON-Stephanie. Your friends and colleagues at Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. are deeply saddened by the tragic passing of your beloved wife Stephanie. Our heartfelt condolences to you and your wonderful sons Spencer and Zachary; we will be here to support you in any way we can. Ne
 DUBINSKY-Cantor Morris. We are deeply saddened by the death of our colleague and friend Cantor Morris Dubinsky. He was truly a sweet singer in Israel and will be missed by all whose lives he touched. Long Island Cantors Assoc.       
 DWYER - Andrew Knox. Born June 21, 1982, passed away suddenly on Friday, January 17, 2003. Beloved and adored son of Andrew and Cindy Dwyer of Hobe Sound, FL, and Bedford, NY, and brother of Nancy and Elly. A sophomore at Yale University, Andrew was a graduate of Rippowam Cisqua School and 
 FISHER-Michael Tyler. Born August 31, 1990, passed away Friday, January 17, 2003. Beloved son of Steven and Elissa Fisher and brother of Jamie-Rose, Kyle Robert and Natalia Lyn. A student at Horace Mann Academy, Michael was a scholar who truly excelled in all forms of creative expression. H
 HELD-Dr. Julius. Renowned art historian and collection advisor to the Ponce Museum of Art, passed away on December 22, 2002, at the age of 97. The Museum and especially its President and founder, Hon. Luis A. Ferre, lament the loss of this great collaborator and friend. He contributed to th
 HOCHBERG - David. Died January 13, 2003. Accomplished Ph.D. chemist, inventor and insurance broker. Loving husband, brother, uncle and father. Proved again and again that a keen mind, kind heart and strong will can surmount almost every challenge. Though he led a complete and fulfilled life
 LeBre-Kerry X. Of Greenville, S.C., died of lung cancer on Dec. 30, at the age of 54. He was dearly loved by his niece, Yvette, & her husband, Michael Davis, and by his many friends in New York City, Florida, California, Arizona, Ecuador & South Carolina. His devoted friend, David Maizer, w
 LEHRMAN - Samuel Allen, MD, 51, died January 16, 2003. Survived by wife Ellen, children Beth and Michael, in-laws Fred and Evelyn Phillips, family members Ruth, Gwen, Malcolm and Rebecca. He was Chief of Radiology at St. Mary's Hospital-SVCMC.       
 LIEBERMAN-Edward. Died at his home in Miami Beach, FL. He was 95 years old. Eldest son of Mary Duberstein. He was the beloved husband of the late Celia Kamenson. He is survived by a daughter, Linda Kramer of Westport, CT. and a son, Allan Lieberman of Roslyn, N.Y. and two grandsons, Shepard
 MACLEOD-Robert F., 85, of Malibu, CA on January 13. He is survived by his wife Louise, three sons, Robert Jr., Edward J.W., Ian D.; and a daughter Merrill Stenbeck, and ten grandchildren.       
 MILLER-Robert H. Died January 17, 2003, in his 87th year. Predeceased by his loving wife Doris. Loving father to Ellen Otterman and son-inlaw Andrew, adoring grandfather to Ross and Craig, and brother to Manon Miller. Also survived by his son Richard Miller and granddaughters Melissa and Am
 NEALE-Herman (Hy), Dr. On January 14, 2003. Beloved husband of Doris. Devoted father to Suzanne and Jerry, Richard and Carole, Lynne and Neal and the late Adrienne. Loving grandfather and great-grandfather. He practiced dentistry and became an avid sculptor. Hisfirst wife Judith pre-decease
 NICHOLS-George D., 86. Of Chatham, MA. Formerly of Pelham, NY. Husband of Frances (Jefferson), who died in 2000. Survived by sons Douglas and Lawrence, and five grandchildren. He brought much happiness into the world. We will miss him.       
 PALEY-Jess. Native New York, born 1919. Died January 14. Cinematographer with a fine and precise eye, he worked on many documentaries, commercials and films. Complicated brilliance, deep tenderness, a difficult lover of the world. Survived by his children, who learned the value of music fro
 RUSH-Al. Television industry leader for over 45 years peacefully passed away at home on January 14, 2003, in Beverly Hills, CA, age 76. He most recently served as Executive of Special Projects for Paramount Television Group and previously held a long career with MCA, becoming Chairman of MC
 SAWYER-Carl. Died Thursday, January 9, 2003 in San Francisco. New York born, he was an engineering graduate from Columbia University, his first marriage being to Barbara Bel Geddes with one issue, Mrs. Susan McLellan. Two grandchildren and three great-grandchildren survive as do two sisters
 SCHWARTZ-Paul. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) are saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, husband of Gladys Schwartz and the late Ida Schwartz, father of RIETS Board member and YU Guardians Dr. William J
 STERNBERG-Charles (Carel). The Board of Directors, the staff and the worldwide family of the International Rescue Committee (IRC) are deeply saddened by the death on January 16, 2003, of our former Executive Director, who devoted his life to the cause of refugees and human rights. As a refu
 TESSLER - Arthur. The Board of Directors and the members of the New York Section, American Urological Association mourn the death of their friend and colleague, Arthur N. Tessler, MD. Dr. Tessler was President of NYS, AUA 1983-1984. He will be greatly missed.       
 TREHERNE - THOMAS - Da vid Hugh. Age 68. Died on January 9 in NYC after a long illness. Formerly also of Newport, R.I. He leaves a beloved son Samuel, sister Rhoda, and many cousins.       
 WALTER-Otto L. The Board of Directors of the German American Chamber of Commerce is deeply saddened by the apssing of its long-time friend and supporter, Otto L. Walter. He joined the Board of Directors of the Chamber in 1961 and continued to work tirelessly on German-American relations. He
 GORDON-Edward S., 65, founded the real estate firmbearing his name, and he died September 21, 2000. I want you to know how much you inspire and motivate me everyday. Everything I read about your life clearly demonstrates to me that I will always have tremendous respect and admiration for yo
 Richard Crenna, the prolific actor who went from being a child performer in radio and eventually progressed to roles of complexity and nuance in serious films, died Friday morning in Los Angeles. He was 76. Mr. Crenna had pancreatic cancer and died of heart failure at Cedars-Sinai M
 Donald Karshan, a print collector, writer on the graphic arts and former director of the New York Cultural Center on Columbus Circle, died on Jan. 4 in Tampa, Fla. He was 73 and lived in Port Orange, Fla., where he moved from Manhattan in 1985. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his
 Dr. R. Walter Schlesinger, a noted virologist who developed a vaccine for dengue fever with Dr. Albert B. Sabin and was a founding educator of what is now the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, died on Jan. 11 in North Falmouth, Mass. He was 89 and a former resident of Falm
 Dr. Sebastian von Hoerner, a radio astronomer and astrophysicist who was a pioneer in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence and an expert on the formation of stars, died on Jan. 7 in Esslingen, Germany, where he had retired. He was 83. Dr. von Hoerner spent much of his profes
 BRISK-Seymour H. Of Longmeadow, MA, and Boynton Beach, FL, 85 years young, died January 18. Loving and much loved husband of Harriet, proud and cherished father of Gayle & Roger Bronstein, Sheryl & Ben Schugar, and Susan & Danny Monosson. Adored grandfather of Lauryn & Jordan Bronstein, Eri
 COHEN-Wayne Robert. Age 49. Of Redondo Beach, CA, and NYC. Untimely death peacefully in his sleep of a heart attack, on January 16. Beloved son of Lynn Dell and Sanford. Brother of Bradley and Keith. Brother-in-law of Yael and Cheri. Grandson of Hancy Schimel and uncle of Olivia. Graduate o
 DUBINSKY-Morris Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of a revered colleague of over three decades. A wonderful Cantor who quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of his congregants with dignity, warmth and care. We extend our sympathy to his family and loved on
 DWYER - Andrew Knox. Born June 21, 1982, passed away suddenly on Friday, January 17, 2003. Beloved and adored son of Andrew and Cindy Dwyer of Hobe Sound, FL, and Bedford, NY, and brother of Nancy and Elly. A sophomore at Yale University, Andrew was a graduate of Rippowam Cisqua School and 
 FISHER-Michael Tyler. The Horace Mann School mourns with deep sorrow the tragic death of our cherished student, Michael Tyler Fisher. A superb scholar, a respected and loyal member of our community, he was a principled, compassionate and loving individual who enriched the lives of all of us
 GABRINER-Arthur. Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of New York. Born June 28, 1903, in North Adams, MA. Died January 18. Loving and devoted husband of the late Lillian (nee Rosenbaum). Adoring father of Linda and Harold Friedman. Cherished grandfather of Lianne, Jeffrey and Peter. Great-grandfath
 GIBBONS-George Billings Jr. April 5, 1914-January 16, 2003. 88, lifelong resident of Rye, NY, and Nantucket, MA, died on January 16, 2003. He was the son of the late Marion and George Billings Gibbons of Rye. He is survived by his wife, Carolyn duPont Gibbons; six children Marion L. Gibbons
 GREENSTEIN-Eli. 78, on January 17. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle. He is survived by his wife Rita (nee Rappoport), children Gail Wade, Carol and Nick Epstein, Myra and Peter Cole, grandchildren Nathalie and Ariel Wade, Lauren and Daniel Cole and sisters Gitl Lerner
 KRUK-Ariel ''Eric.'' The Officers, Board of Trustees, Rabbi Stephen Berkowitz, Rabbi Emeritus Robert Lehman, the Affiliates and the Membership of the Hebrew Tabernacle Congregation extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Ariel ''Eric,'' to his father, our own Cantor of the Hebrew 
 PACHETTI-Renato M. A RAI (Italian Radio & Television) journalist and executive for more than 40 years. He was one of the first dozen journalist to organize RAI's news department, which today has more than 1000 journalists worldwide. He came to the United States for the first time in 1955 to
 SMITH-Donald Hunt. Died at his home in Hanover, NH, on January 16. Beloved husband of Joanne Booth Smith. A memorial service will be held on Hillside Farm in Brooklyn, CT, in the spring. Memorial donations may be made to the Salvation Army.       
 ZAIDINS-Earle Warren. Age 77, of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, on January 17, 2003. Loving husband of Alice for 22 years. Adored father of Eric, Sam and Cory, grandfather of Jonathan and David, and step father of Jonathan and Jason Rosenberg. We will miss him more than words can express.       
 Dr. Pascal P. Pirone, an expert on plant disease for the New York Botanical Garden, died on Jan. 11 in Lexington, Ky. He was 95. A horticulturist at the garden in the Bronx from 1947 to 1974, Dr. Pirone was responsible for keeping its indoor and outdoor plants in good health. His sp
 Richard Crenna, the prolific actor who went from being a child performer in radio to roles of complexity and nuance in serious films, died Friday in Los Angeles. He was 76. Mr. Crenna had pancreatic cancer and died of heart failure at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, with his wife, Penn
 Al Hirschfeld, whose inimitable caricatures captured the vivid personalities of theater people and their performances for more than 75 years, died at his home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 99. To be the subject of a Hirschfeld drawing endowed one with a special cachet. To find the 
 GOLDMAN-David, 85, died on January 5 in The Bronx. He is survived by loving brother Morris, loving daughters Judy Rosenberg and Barbara and Ilene Goldman, and loving grandson Joshua.       
 HIRSCHFELD-Al. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the death of Al Hirschfeld. His image and those he immortalized will live forever in our hearts. Tom Dillon, President Joseph Benincasa, Exec Director       
 KLINGER-Dr. Leo. Died on Sunday, January 19, 2003 in Pittsford, NY. Born June 13, 1914 in Brooklyn, he practiced medicine in Rochester, NH from 1940 until 1972. A Charter Member of AAFP, he was then Medical Advisor for Blue Cross/Shield, Concord, NH until retirement. During WWII he was an A
 McDONALD-John C. The Directors and staff of The Acting Company are deeply saddened by John's passing and send our sincere love and sympathy to Louanna and their families. John was a Vice President, supporter and the most dedicated fan of our actors and productions. It is hard to imagine an 
 MULLER-Al. Colleagues of Al Muller mourn his death on January 8, 2003. He was a loving friend, a lively spirit and the most dedicated and talented editor. We were honored to know him and to share in his gifts. He will always be in our hearts. Colleagues and Friends at ABC News       
 PACHETTI-Renato M. A RAI (Italian Radio & Television) journalist and executive for more than 40 years. He was one of the first dozen journalist to organize RAI's news department, which today has more than 1000 journalists worldwide. He came to the United States for the first time in 1955 to
 PARSONS-James Otis Jr. On January 19, at North Branford, CT, at age 84, formerly of Bedford Hills, NY. He was a founder of Harrington Righter & Parsons Inc., a TV station representative company in NYC. He was a graduate of Kent School and Yale College Class of 1940. His lifelong passions we
 ROTH-Dr. Francis B. Born on December 19, 1911, died at home on January 11, 2003. He was the son of the late Pauline Cohen Roth and the late Dr. Irving Roth, brother of the late Herman and the late Julius Roth, and husband of the late Royce Moch Roth. He leaves his daughter and son, Nancy Ro
 SANDERS-Durward Eldon (Sandy). On January 15, at home. Survived by his wife Anne, daughter Dona Garnett, and five grandchildren. He was predeceased by daughters Susan Henck and Deborah Lewis and a grandchild. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM, Thursday, January 23, at St. James Churc
 SCHWARTZ-Herbert N., 81. Of New York City, died on January 18, 2003. He was an optimist. Bye-Bye, Daddy.       
 Gavin Lyall, a prolific and popular British writer of thrillers, died on Monday in London. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Katharine Whitehorn, a British writer and journalist. Starting his career when many British thriller writers had specialties -- spycraft
 ASHINOFF - Larry. I am deeply saddened by the passing of my dear friend and client, Larry Ashinoff. For over thirty years, we traveled the road of life together and were planning to do so for many more years. Although Larry never bought the boat of his dreams, he will always be a captain to
 CROSS-Richard J., Dr. 87, of Princeton, NJ, died January 20th. Educated at Yale and Columbia Medical School, he served in the medical corps in World War II and on the faculties of Columbia, the University of Pittsburgh and Robert Wood Johnson Medical School from which he retired in 1985. He
 FISHER-Michael Tyler. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of Michael Tyler Fisher, beloved son of Steven and Elissa Fisher. Our hearts and prayers are with the entire Fisher family who have generously supported the
 FITZSIMONS-James M. Admitted to practice law in New York, California and Connecticut, passed away January 6, 2003. He was the grandson of Chief Justice James M. FitzSimons, who swore in the first Mayor of Greater New York. Members of the family have continuously practiced law in New York fo
 FORBES-T. Harold Jr. (Harry). On January 19, 2003 at the age of 89, San Antonio, TX. He was the devoted husband of Margaret;loving father of Maureen, Thom and Jim. Visitation 7-9 PM Thursday at George T. Davis Funeral Home, 14 Lecount Place, New Rochelle, NY. Mass of Christian Burial Friday
 FRANK-Maxwell Z. On January 21, 2003, at the age of 89. Beloved husband of Marian P., for 66 years. Loving father of Eleanor and Michael Frey, Rosalie and Alan Moore, and Carol and Jan Shalom. Adoring grandfather of twentyone and great-grandfather of fifteen. He was a genuine gentleman who 
 HIRSCHFELD-Al. We mourn the very great loss of this dear and distinguished fellow member. As important a figure as the many actors, producers, directors and writers that he immortalized. His passing leaves a large void in the American theatre and in our hearts. Our thoughts and deep affecti
 LAVIETES-Raymond P. Our dear friend since 1942, Ray, formerly of Scottsdale, AZ, and Shelton, CT, died January 12 after long illness. We recall the ongoing myriad changes he funded for Harvard ('36) and Shelton. We share our grief with his family. Cecile and Sydney Mitchell       
 McDONALD-John Charles. Of Brooklyn Heights, died of cancer on January 20, 2003. He was 76 years old. Mr. McDonald distinguished himself by virtue of his wit and grace. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II and went to Georgetown and Harvard Law School, graduating with the highest h
 PACHETTI-Renato. Tomaso, Simone and Ricciarda are bereaved for the loss of their Zio Renato. He was their dear friend, literary confidante and sole political analyst. We will miss you terribly.       
 SANDERS-Durward Eldon (Sandy). On January 15, at home. Survived by his wife Anne, daughter Dona Garnett, and five grandchildren. He was predeceased by daughters Susan Henck and Deborah Lewis and a grandchild. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM, Thursday, January 23, at St. James Churc
 Stephen Kates, a cellist and teacher who was a Tchaikovsky International Cello Competition prizewinner, died on Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 59 and lived in Annapolis, Md. The cause was lymphoma, said his wife, Mary Louise. Mr. Kates won the silver
 Bill Mauldin, the Army sergeant who created Willie and Joe, the cartoon characters who became enduring symbols of the grimy, irrepressible American infantrymen who triumphed over the German army and prevailed over their own rear-echelon officers in World War II, died yesterday in Newport Be
 Burns W. Roper, a leading pollster for four decades and the author of political polling's central question about the state of the nation, died on Monday at his home in Bourne, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 77. The cause was lung cancer, said his son David. It was Mr. Roper, kno
 ALLEN-Allen. Famous New York City restaurateur and raconteur died with his family at his side on January 23, 2003. Loving and adoring husband of Fay Allen. Devoted father of Jeffrey and Sheila, Mark and Donna, Bonnie and Ronald Allen. Most cherished grandfather to his ''earth angels'' Grego
 ASHINOFF-Larry. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Larry Ashinoff. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director       
 BLUM-Sheldon, August 19, 1916 to January 21, 2003. Beloved husband of Eunice Martin Blum. Loving father of Naomi Fertitta, father-inlaw of George Fertitta and grandfather of Cree and Cameron Fertitta. Sheldon Blum was a graduate of NYU University and NYU Law School, Summa Cum Laude, and a m
 BRASS-Barry J., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the untimely passing of our dear friend and colleague, Barry J. Brass, M.D., an attending physician in the Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism. To his wife Marion, his mother Beatrice, his famil
 COHN-Herbert Noah. Son of late Gabriel and Sarah Cohn, brother of late Gloria Kastner, and survived by his wife, Olive, and their children Nancy and Robert, daughter-inlaw Jayne, and grandchildren Erin, Payton and Evan, died at age 85 on January 21, 2003. He served his country during WWII a
 COLONNA-Roy. Of Gilbertsville, NY, died January 20, 2003. Fashion illustrator for Elizabeth Arden in NYC, he became a Dada artist, showing at Bodley Gallery. Eighth don in Goju karate, he taught karate and Tai Chi in Cooperstown and Oneonta. Roy is a devotee of Ramana Maharshi. He is surviv
 CROSS-Richard, M.D. The board and staff of SIECUSthe Sexuality Information and Education Council of the U.S.-wish to express their sadness at the passing of Dr. Richard Cross. Dr. Cross was a pioneer in the field of sexuality. As an early board member of SIECUS, he stepped in as Executive D
 DAY-Donald Groff. Died on January 16, 2003 in New York City. He worked as a freelance medical writer and editor for more than thirty years. A Memorial Service will be held on Saturday, January 25, 2003, at 10 A.M. at The Riverside Church, 490 Riverside Drive, New York, New York 10027.      
 DESHMUKH-Madhukar, M., M.D. The Montefiore-Einstein Heart Center mourns the death of our colleague and friend Madhukar M. Deshmukh, M.D. Dr. Deshmukh was a distinguished cardiologist and teacher who practiced Cardiology in the Bronx for over 30 years and taught generations of physicians bot
 FELDMAN-Melvin. Unexpectedly on January 22, 2003. Remembered with love and affection by his family and friends, daughter, Estey, son, Ronald, sister, Ruth, son-inlaw, Doug, and nephews, Clifford and Bruce, and their families. He was kind, gentle and giving. Melvin and Yetta will be together
 GAMZE-Rabbi Noah. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi of the Isaac Agree Downtown Synagogue in Detroit and extend our condolences to his wife, Ann, children, Eli, Mark and Lori and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.    
 HIRSCHFELD-Al. We deeply mourn the loss of Al Hirschfeld, a New York City landmark in his own time, who supported, in wonderfully artistic lines and otherwise, our continuing efforts to preserve the architectural integrity, human scale and quality of life in Carnegie Hill. Our condolences t
 HOWARD-Fred W. Beloved grandfather of Tara, Ian, Rachel and Noah, father of Ellen, Scott and Lauren, and adored husband of Joyce. We mourn his passing and celebrate his life as a caring and loving person.       
 IBISH-Yusuf Hussein, Professor, died peacefully on Sunday 19th January, age 76. Beloved father of Suna, Hussein and Karim and grandfather of Basil. His wisdom and care will be sadly missed by his family, friends, colleagues and students. The funeral will be held in London on Friday, 24th Ja
 LIPSON-Milton ''Mitch.'' On January 22, very nearly 90 years old. A man who lived fully in his times serving in the administration of Fiorello LaGuardia, in the U.S. Secret Service, in private legal practice, as Commissioner of Investigation of Nassau County, vice president for security of 
 McDONALD-John Charles. Of Brooklyn Heights, died of cancer on January 20, 2003. He was 76 years old. Mr. McDonald distinguished himself by virtue of his wit and grace. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II and went to Georgetown and Harvard Law School, graduating with the highest h
 MENDELSON - Herbert H. Age 79, former chairman of the board of Jack X. Wilson, Inc. Died at the Miami Heart Institute on Tuesday, January 21, 2003 following a courageous battle with vasculitis. He was born May 27, 1923 in Chicago, IL to the late Emanuel and Edith Glass Mendelson. He attende
 SCHOENBAUM - Jerry. On January 21, 2003. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Mitchell and his wife Liz, and Eric and his wife Marci. Cherished grandfather of Mathew, Jenna, Megan and Max. We will miss you.       
 Marvin Bower, whose leadership of McKinsey & Company turned the business of selling management advice into a keystone of American corporate culture, died on Wednesday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 99. McKinsey was a small engineering and accounting firm in Chicago in the 
 Milton Lipson, a lawyer and investigator who, as a Secret Service agent from 1938 to 1946, was a personal bodyguard for Presidents Roosevelt and Truman, died on Wednesday in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Lipson was one of the small group of aides who helped President Roosevelt disg
 ALLEN-Allen. Famous New York City restaurateur and raconteur died with his family at his side on January 23, 2003. Loving and adoring husband of Fay Allen. Devoted father of Jeffrey and Sheila, Mark and Donna, Bonnie and Ronald Allen. Most cherished grandfather to his ''earth angels'' Grego
 ANDREASSI - Calvin W. Founder of Sandy Lane Partners, a private hedge fund, and owner of CAC MedTech Group, a biotech/healthcare research consulting firm, died on Tuesday, January 21, 2003, at Northern Westchester Hospital. Survived by his beloved wife, Stephanie, mother, Ida; brother, Jame
 DESHMUKH-Madhukar M., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Adminstrators and medical staff of St. Barnabas Healthcare Facilities, Bronx, New York are deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Madhukar Deshmukh on January 20, 2003. Dr. Deshmukh joined the medical staff in February 1971 and served with dist
 DREYFUSS-Lester H. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Lester H. Dreyfuss. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Natalie and family, Ted Markson, President       
 GLAZER-Sydney. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sydney Glazer. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Sheila, and their family. Richard Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary    
 HIRSCHFELD-Al. Dear Al, thank you for all you have done for us throughout the years, especially after our own dear George's passing, when you guided me into the world of business. I will be forever grateful for your concern. There will never be another one like you and we will always rememb
 JOVINE-Marcel. The Board of Directors, members and staff of The National Sculpture Society mourn the death of Marcel Jovine, past president, friend, and colleague. We salute his accomplishments as a sculptor and grieve his loss as a friend. He will be greatly missed. National Sculpture Soci
 KATES-Stephen. The faculty and students of the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, cellist Stephen Kates. An extraordinary musician was coupled with his quick wit, and love for teaching. He will live in our memory.       
 KITZINGER-Ernst. On January 22, 2003 in Poughkeepsie, NY. Husband of the late Margaret Susan Kitzinger. Survived by his children Stephen Anthony Kitzinger, Margaret Rachel Kitzinger and Adrian Nicholas Kitzinger, and three grandchildren. A. Kingsley Porter University Professor emeritus of H
 NEVIAS-Irving. On January 20th, 2003 at the age of 70. A true individualist, Irv did everything his way. He will be greatly missed by daughter Lori, son Kevin, sister Shirley, son-in-law Joe, daughter-inlaw Pam and granddaughters Antonia and Allison. Funeral service Sunday, January 26th, 20
 OAKES-James M. Jr. (Jim). Age 41, died January 23, 2003 at Calvary Hospital in New York, NY. He was a Managing Director in the Investment Banking Division of Solomon Smith Barney. He is survived by his wife, Brenda, daughter, Natalie, son Ryan of New York; his parents J. Marvin and Barbara 
 PACHETTI-Renato. It is with great sadness that RAI Radiotelevisione Italiana, Italy's public broadcasting system, acknowledges the loss of one of its most dedicated and beloved colleagues. For over 30 years, Renato Pachetti served RAI with the highest level of professionalism and enthusiasm
 SCHOENBAUM - Jerry. On January 21, 2003. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Mitchell and his wife Liz, and Eric and his wife Marci. Cherished grandfather of Mathew, Jenna, Megan and Max. We will miss you.       
 TAYLOR-James Blackstone III, 81. Died on January 17 in Bridgeport, CT. of complications from liver cancer and heart disease. He spent most of his life in aviation and headed marketing and sales programs for major business jet manufacturers for many decades. He is survived by his wife of 55 
 Craig Kelly, who played a major role in making snowboarding a modern-day sport and then a recreational outlet, died on Monday in an avalanche that killed seven skiers and snowboarders near Revelstoke, British Columbia. He was 36 and lived in Nelson, British Columbia. He was among 21
 George Haimsohn, who co-wrote the book and lyrics for ''Dames at Sea,'' a musical that has leavened summer stock and college repertories ever since its Off Broadway debut in 1968, died on Jan. 17 in Manhattan. He was 77. He collapsed in front of his Greenwich Village home and was ta
 Giovanni Agnelli, the shrewd, dashing and politically influential international business figure who turned his family's auto company, Fiat, into a worldwide conglomerate and helped industrialize postwar Italy, died this morning at his home here. He was 81. The cause was prostate can
 ALLEN-Allen. Famous New York City restaurateur and raconteur died with his family at his side on January 23, 2003. Loving and adoring husband of Fay Allen. Devoted father of Jeffrey and Sheila, Mark and Donna, Bonnie and Ronald Allen. Most cherished grandfather to his ''earth angels'' Grego
 ENDE-Nathan. On January 18, 2003 at age 94. He is survived by Vera, his beloved wife of 63 years, his son Eric and daughter-in-law Karen and grandchildren Duncan, Elena and Scott. A quiet man, with a warm sense of humor, he was a most generous and devoted husband and father. He was dearly l
 GERRY-Edward Harriman. Died January 24, 2003 in Hobe Sound, FL. at the age of 88. He is survived by his devoted wife of 63 years, Martha Farish Gerry, five loving children, Libby F. Gerry, Cornelia G. Corbett, Martha G. Townley and William F. Gerry, eight grandchildren, Jenny Merovic, Laura
 GORMAN-Bernard. Loving and dedicated husband of Dorothy. Loving father of the late Larry; Ira and Barry. A man who always put the needs of his family and friends first. Bernard, who loved life, and would not quit, who believed in fighting to the end, lost his battle with cancer, but died of
 KATES-Stephen. The Violoncello Society of New York mourns the loss of our past president. He was an eloquent musician and teacher. His sense of humor, wit and zest for life was an inspiration.       
 SOWINSKI-Stephen L., M.D. The Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens is deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Stephen Sowinski on January 15, 2003. A valued member of our medical staff since 1986, he was a true advocate for patients, nurses and colleagues. As a caring internist and endocrinologist, D
 Friends, colleagues and Broadway itself celebrated the life and work of Al Hirschfeld yesterday at private funeral services at the Frank E. Campbell chapel on Madison Avenue. Hirschfeld, who drew his inimitable caricatures of people in the performing arts for more than 75 years, died on Mon
 Alfred Kantor, whose watercolors and sketches recreating daily life in Auschwitz, Theresienstadt and Schwarzheide constitute one of the few visual records of existence in a Nazi concentration camp, died on Jan. 16 in Yarmouth, Me. He was 79. The cause was complications of Parkinson'
 Clark Waring Blackburn, who led efforts in the 1960's to get social welfare agencies to provide education and job training in addition to traditional family counseling, died on Jan. 18 in Aurora, Colo. He was 94. From 1952 to 1974, Mr. Blackburn was general director of the Family Se
 Dr. David B. Skinner, who presided over the merger of New York Hospital and Presbyterian Hospital and served as president until his retirement in 1999, died on Friday. He was 67. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Myrna Manners, a hospital spokeswoman. Dr. Skinner bec
 Edward Farhat, who as the Sheik more or less single-handedly escalated the violence and commercial appeal of professional wrestling in the early years of television, died on Jan. 18 in Williamstown, Mich. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Starting in h
 AGNELLI-Giovanni. It is with deep sadness that we note the passing of Gianni Agnelli, a longtime treasured friend and supporter of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council. He was a charismatic and beloved figure in Italy and throughout the world, with a passionate commitment 
 ASHINOFF - Larry. I am deeply saddened by the passing of my dear friend and client, Larry Ashinoff. For over thirty years, we traveled the road of life together and were planning to do so for many more years. Although Larry never bought the boat of his dreams, he will always be a captain to
 BAUDA-Joseph S. Pharmacist. January 18, Buffalo, NY. The Pharmacist's Society of the State of New York mourns the death of the Honorary Past President and extends deepest sympathy to his wife Rose, daughters Beverly and Carol Bauda. Bauda was a Major in WWII, a volunteer and officer in nume
 BLITZER-Arnold. died on January 23, 2003 at the age of 93. Beloved husband of the late Florence Kaiden and the late Lillian Aurit. A proud Colonel in the U.S. Army, he also served his city for many years in the Planning Commission. He will be profoundly missed and is survived by his sister 
 BOWER-Marvin, 99. A longtime resident of Bronxville, NY, on January 22, 2003 at his home in Delray Beach, FL. Husband of the late Helen McLaughlin Bower and the late Cleo De Veze Bower, father of Richard H. of Bronxville, NY, James M. of Providence, RI, and the late Peter H. Bower. Grandfat
 BUTLER-Milton W. 37 year employee of the New York Times died in Laguna Woods, CA. Tuesday, January 7, 2003. He is survived by his wife Dorothy, daughter Peggy Barabas, sons Robert Butler and C. Russell Butler, three grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Services were held January 12 
 FOWLER-David Anderson. 82. Died on November 1, 2002 at Bryn Mawr Hospital from complications arising from dialysis treatment for end stage renal failure. He had been ill for several years but never lost the twinkle in his eye, his infectious chuckle, or his youthful optimism. He was a gradu
 GERRY-Edward Harriman. Died January 24, 2003 in Hobe Sound, FL. at the age of 88. He is survived by his devoted wife of 63 years, Martha Farish Gerry, five loving children, Libby F. Gerry, Cornelia G. Corbett, Martha G. Townley and William F. Gerry, eight grandchildren, Jenny Merovic, Laura
 HIRSCHFELD-Al. The National Cartoonist Society notes with sorrow the passing of the greatest caricaturist of the 20th century. His work will continue to delight and inspire us all. The Members and Officers of the NCS       
 HUDSON-Edward Joseph, 98, born on March 13, 1904, died on January 23, 2003. A long-time resident of Houston, Ed Hudson was born to Marion Dooley Hudson and Wilbur E. Hudson in Newark, New Jersey, the youngest child and only son in a family of five children. In 1926 Mr. Hudson graduated cum 
 MAIZELL-Jack. On January 24, 2003, at age 93. Dearest and caring husband of Susan. Adored and deeply admired father of Sylvia, Daniel, Richard, Jacqui and step-father of Richard and Robert. Adoring grandfather of Abigail, Benjamin and Sonya Rose whose lives brought happiness and joy to Jack
 MAULDIN-Bill. The National Cartoonist Society mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague. We revere his talent, honor his accomplishments and salute his memory. The Members and Officers of the NCS       
 McGOVERN-Dennis. We, his friends, announce with profound sorrow the death of Dennis McGovern on January 10, 2003. A memorial service will be held at 12:30 PM on Saturday February 8, 2003, at St. Paul The Apostle Church, 60th & 9th Ave, NYC, to celebrate his life and the joy he brought to ma
 MEYERS-Marcus. On January 22, 2003. Loving brother of Fran Marcus (David). Caring uncle of Jeffrey, Gail, Michael and Lindsay Marcus. Longtime friend of Anita Contos. May he rest in peace.       
 SCHWARTZ - Seymour, 65, Former New York Times Staff Member, dies. Seymour Schwartz, after a long and diverse career at The New York Times, died on January 1 in the Bronx. He was 65. Mr. Schwartz was born in Brooklyn, New York on November 9, 1937 to Joseph and Yetta Schwartz. Raised in Willi
 SKINNER-Dr. David B. January 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Ellie. Cherished father of Linda and her husband David Callans, Kristin, Carise and her husband Roger Rowley and Margaret. Devoted grandfather of Christopher, Lauren, Anra and Ian. Loving brother of Donald and his wife Shirley and th
 SUSSMAN-Max. An extraordinary man passed away January 20. Devoted husband of Ruth. Beloved father of Marc, Alan, Barry, father-inlaw law of Sharon, Randy. Grandfather of Brett, Stacie and Ali. Brother of Jean Smith. He was beloved by all and will be sorely missed.       
 Renato Matteo Pachetti, an Italian broadcast journalist and executive in New York and chairman emeritus of the International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, died last Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Pachetti was pr
 Hugh Trevor-Roper, a British historian who wrote a best-selling account of Hitler's final days in the Berlin bunker but damaged his reputation 35 years later by authenticating forged Hitler diaries, died yesterday in Oxford, England. He was 89. ''The Last Days of Hitler,'' published
 Marcel Jovine, who shaped such popular toys as the Visible Man and the Visible Woman before becoming an award-winning designer of coins and a sculptor of racehorses, died last Monday in Greenwich, Conn., at the home of his daughter, Andrea Coopersmith. He was 81 and lived and worked in Clos
 Norman Panama, whose screenwriting and directing career stretched from 1930's radio sketches to 1970's satires of sexual liberation and who, with Melvin Frank, created one of Hollywood's most durable and celebrated comedy writing teams, died Jan. 13 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 88. 
 COHEN-James D. (Jim). Born March 21, 1942, son of the late Danny and Gladys (Mickey) Cohen. Jim was a beloved father, brother, uncle, coach, friend and chef. Jim was the loving father to Josh Cohen and his fiance Maio Martinez, devoted brother of Mary Ann Notter and Hazel Dodds. He was the 
 KENT-Stephen D. 84, of Newburgh, NY, died January 25, 2003. Survivors inlcude his wife of 62 years, Marian, and his children, Peggy Brooks and Peter (Mailis), as well as three grandchildren.       
 MAIZELL-Jack. Words cannot express the sadness we feel at the loss of our irreplaceable uncle Jack. Beloved Brother of Henoch, our Dad and Grandpa. We loved his smile, spirit, warmth, intelligence and his wonderful singing with his Brother at the Holiday table. We will love him and treasure
 O'HARE-Thomas E. 74, of Centennial, CO, was born in New York, NY, on September 3, 1928. He died in Littleton, CO, on January 21, 2003. He was a Chemical Engineer, an inventor, a member of the Knights of Columbus, The Ancient Order of Hibernians and a veteran of the Korean War. He is survive
 SKINNER-Dr. David B. January 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Ellie. Cherished father of Linda and her husband David Callans, Kristin, Carise and her husband Roger Rowley and Margaret. Devoted grandfather of Christopher, Lauren, Anra and Ian. Loving brother of Donald and his wife Shirley and th
 SORIN-Murray. Age 94, of Palm Beach, FL, and formerly of New York City, died January 25, 2003. An airconditioning pioneer in New York City, Sorin was a Brooklyn Law School graduate, held a seat on the NYSE, and served in WWII. He is survived by his beloved wife Sascha Newman Sorin, his sons
 John Browning, a leading light in a pioneering older generation of American pianists of seemingly limitless promise, died on Sunday at his home in Sister Bay, Wis. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, said Shirley Kirshbaum, his publicist. Mr. Browning studied with Rosina
 Valery Brumel, a Russian who during the cold war became perhaps the best high jumper in history but had his world-class career end when he almost lost a leg in a motorcycle accident, died Sunday in a Moscow hospital. He was 60. Russian news agencies said Brumel had suffered from a p
 Francesco Trussardi, the chairman of one of Italy's leading fashion and leather goods manufacturers, died on Sunday after his Ferrari crashed into a lamppost near Bergamo in northern Italy, according to the Italian police. He was 29. Mr. Trussardi became chairman of the family busin
 Hisashi Shinto, one of Japan's most prominent postwar industrialists, who was caught up in a bribery scandal late in his career, died on Sunday in Tokyo. He was 92. A confidant of high-ranking businessmen and leading politicians, Mr. Shinto is best known for helping privatize the Ni
 Joseph Wharton Lippincott Jr., the last president and chairman of the J. B. Lippincott Company as an independent Philadelphia publisher, died on Saturday in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 88. Mr. Lippincott, a scion of an old Philadelphia family, presided over a rapid expansion of the publis
 BALDWIN-William H. At the age of 82 on December 23, 2002. Dearly loved and loving husband, father, brother and granddad. Survived by his wife Margot, sons Glenn and Mark, brothers Charles and Paul (Billingham), sister Elizabeth Rowland, grandchildren Matthew and Dana and a host of friends. 
 BARASH-David. December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Laura Goodfriend and Stephanie Becker. Cherished grandfather of Scott Becker, Lisa and Galen Giebler, Lawrence and Jennifer Goodfriend, Amy and Jon Nussbaum. Proud great-grandfather of Cadie Mae. Loving c
 BERGER-Martin M. The Saltaire community is grieved beyond measure at the death of Mayor Martin M. Berger Monday, January 27, 2003. As public servant and as a human being, Martin personified so much that evoked our admiration - brilliance and ability of mind, passion and thoughtfulness of ca
 BINGHAM-Reverend John Kennedy, S.J. On January 14, 2003, after 50 years in the Missions. Devoted brother of the late Marie Bingham King and Charles C. Bingham (Fran). Cherished uncle of ten. Dear cousin of Suzanne Gatehouse and grand uncle of 20. Mass celebrating his extraordinary life at S
 BROWNING-John. Manhattan School of Music is saddened by the loss of former faculty member, John Browning. One of America's most eminent pianists, he was a member of The School's piano faculty from 1980 to 1986. His intellect and vigor enriched the lives of his many students. We extend our m
 BROWNSTEIN - Jerome. Born September 1, 1931, in Troy, NY. Died of colon cancer January 19, 2003, at the age of 71. A graduate of Russell Sage College and Albany Union Law School, he was a practicing attorney for 45 years. A true Renaissance man, he was also a calligrapher, entrepreneur, and
 CONSTON-Eve. The Board of Directors and the staff of our two organizations extend our heartfelt condolences to our Vice President, Henry S. Conston, Esq., on the loss of his beloved spouse. Our thoughts are with him. Margaret Tietz Center for Nursing Care George Berlstein, Chairman The New 
 CONSUEGRA - Hugo. The partners and staff of Brennan Beer Gorman/Architects (BBG) are deeply saddened by the death of Hugo Consuegra. Mr. Consuegra joined BBG in 1985 and was made a partner in 1991. A gifted architect and accomplished painter, Mr. Consuegra lent his talents to many of the fi
 FOX-Albert. On January 27, at 94 years of age. Beloved husband of the late Anita Fox, father of Marjorie Hilton and Barbara Fox, grandfather of Alexis Hilton Mintz and Alison Hilton, father-in-law of Joseph Hilton and James Freund. He lived a long and exemplary life and we will miss him ter
 GUTNER-Monroe. Lover of the arts and all things Italian, Monroe died on January 25, 2003, age 91 at home in El Cerrito, CA. with Lillian, his loving wife of 3O years at his side. Beloved husband of the late Betty Arensberg; survived by his brother and sister-in-law Leonard and Gloria Gutner
 JANOWITZ-Adeline Tintner. The National Board of Trustees and staff of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America extend heartfelt sympathy to our dedicated co-founder and friend, Dr. Henry Janowitz, on the loss of his beloved wife, Adeline. Our deepest condolences to Dr. Janowitz and his f
 KEOGH-Thomas Rev. Msgr. (Pastor Emeritus-St. Mary's R.C. Church, Manhattan) on January 26, 2003. Devoted brother of Frank and the late Msgr. John P. Keogh and the late Mary Good. Mass of Transferral today at St. Rosalie's R.C. Church, Hampton Bays at 10 AM. Reposing Wednesday after 4 PM at 
 LOO-Dr. Robert K. Professor at Queensborough Community College. Passed peacefully on December 25, 2002, in Queens, NY. Born in Hawaii on May 1, 1937. Survived by wife Dr. Margaret T. Pan-Loo, four sons and four grandchildren. His family and friends were blessed with his love. The family wil
 MITNICK - Morton, D.D.S. Loving husband of Jacqueline. Devoted father of four. Proud grandfather of eight. Dentist, scholar, music lover, National Park Service volunteer, amateur astronomer, skeptic and a great and good man with a wonderful sense of humor. Donations in his memory may be mad
 MORTON-Herbert C. 81, died on December 21, 2002, at his home in Bethesda, MD. He was an editor and publisher and author of books on economics, the work place, scholarly communication, and lexicography. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Orlans Morton, and two daughters by his first wife Do
 PENTCHEFF-Nicolas. Died December 22, 2002, age 91, after a long illness. Born in Bulgaria. Educated in Bulgaria, London School of Economics (BS) and Columbia University, NY (MA). Reporter for Zora, Sofia's leading daily; sent to London in 1936. Became Press Attache to Bulgarian Legation, Lo
 RAISNER-Arnold. On January 25, 2003 at age 74. Beloved husband of Barbara, wonderful father to Jack (Ruthie) and Joanne Narad (Chuck). Delightful, extraordinary grandfather to Sara, Miriam and Isaac Raisner, Ethan and Reuben Narad. Cherished brother of Bernice Bloom and the late Julia Levin
 ROSENBLATT - Robert W. 80, on December 28. Loving and devoted husband of Helene (Scheuer). Father of Bill and Roberta, Ron and Susy, David and Robyn, Larry and Linda, Ann and Stuart. Brother of Richard and Lois, Peter and Naomi. Grandfather of Charles, Marc, Becky and Josh and Devon, Casson
 SACKS-Roger, D.D.S. A man of honor, great courage and dignity. He was a graduate of Stuyvesant High School 1954, Columbia College 1958, and Columbia College of Dentistry 1962. He was a published cartoonist who brought his wit with him wherever he went. He leaves his beloved wife Arlene, his
 SKINNER-David B., M.D. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the loss of Dr. David B. Skinner, our esteemed colleague in thoracic surgery, and an outstanding scientist, as well as a visionary health care administrator. Under his leadership, the NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare
 SOLOMON-Irving I. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Shira Stein and their loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, President       
 SOULE-Arthur Turner. Of Chestertown, Maryland passed suddenly on January 27, 2003. He is the husband of Mildred Beach. Father of Stephen and Margaret. Grandfather of three. Step grandfather of seven. Brother of Molly Mahony, Frances Hansel and Theodore Soule. Contributions to Dartmouth Coll
 ZILDJIAN-Armand. Of Scottsdale, Arizona, and Quechee, Vermont (formerly Hingham, MA), President and Chairman of the Zildjian Company in Norwell, MA, died Thursday at his home in Scottsdale. He was 81. Born in Quincy, he attended local schools, including Thayer Academy and Colgate University
 ZIMMERMAN-Dr. Louis. On December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Helen Helfstein Zimmerman. Devoted father of Peter Max Zimmerman and Mindy Zimmerman Colton. Dear fatherin-law of Paul Franklin Colton. Dear brother of the late Ida Revitz and Zeta Turtle. Also survived by other loving f
 Edward M. Korry, the United States ambassador to Chile from 1967 to 1971, who was for years wrongly suspected of helping to plot a military coup to prevent a Marxist from becoming president there, died yesterday at his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said a 
 John P. Thompson, the leader of the Dallas family who built an ice business into 7-Eleven, the world's largest convenience store chain, died on Tuesday at his home in Dallas. He was 77. The cause was brain cancer, according to the company. Among the Dallas elite, the Thompso
 AGNELLI - Giovanni. The Board of Trustees of the World Monuments Fund mourns the loss of Giovanni Agnelli, who with his beloved wife Marella, was a recipient of WMF's 1992 Hadrian Award. Giovanni Agnelli was an extraordinary international leader whose sponsorship of cultural activities adva
 BACHNER-Arnold H. Of New York, NY, died January 27, 2003 after long and painful illnesses. Born June 14, 1919 in Newark, NJ, Mr. Bachner had a distinguished career as the CEO of Kmart Apparel and was on the Board of Directors of the Kmart Corporation until his retirement. He was honored as 
 BALDWIN-William H. At the age of 82 on December 23, 2002. Dearly loved and loving husband, father, brother and granddad. Survived by his wife Margot, sons Glenn and Mark, brothers Charles and Paul (Billingham), sister Elizabeth Rowland, grandchildren Matthew and Dana and a host of friends. 
 BARASH-David. December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Laura Goodfriend and Stephanie Becker. Cherished grandfather of Scott Becker, Lisa and Galen Giebler, Lawrence and Jennifer Goodfriend, Amy and Jon Nussbaum. Proud great-grandfather of Cadie Mae. Loving c
 BERGER-Martin M., 75. Wonderful father and husband, respected Mayor of Saltaire, successful real estate attorney and passionate defender of civil liberties, died Tuesday from lung cancer. A brilliant legal mind, he often gave his legal and political talents to support those needing a champi
 BROWNING - John. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its beloved friend, the eminent American pianist John Browning, on January 26, 2003 at the age of 69. A Steinway Artist for more than 46 years, Mr. Browning was an articulate master of the piano
 CONSTON-Eve. The Board of Directors and the staff of our two organizations extend our heartfelt condolences to our Vice President, Henry S. Conston, Esq., on the loss of his beloved spouse. Our thoughts are with him. Margaret Tietz Center for Nursing Care George Berlstein, Chairman The New 
 KIVELSON-Daniel. January 23rd at 73. Distiguished Chemistry professor and scholar. Survived by wife Margaret, daughter Valerie (Tim), son Steven (Pam), five grandchildren, sister Nina Auerbach of San Francisco, and brother Arnold of New York. A memorial gathering will be held at UCLA on Fri
 LOO-Dr. Robert K. Professor at Queensborough Community College. Passed peacefully on December 25, 2002, in Queens, NY. Born in Hawaii on May 1, 1937. Survived by wife Dr. Margaret T. Pan-Loo, four sons and four grandchildren. His family and friends were blessed with his love. The family wil
 MIDDLEMISS-John F. Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of John F. Middlemiss Jr., a Member of the Society and Member of the Glee Club, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F
 MORTON-Herbert C. 81, died on December 21, 2002, at his home in Bethesda, MD. He was an editor and publisher and author of books on economics, the work place, scholarly communication, and lexicography. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Orlans Morton, and two daughters by his first wife Do
 PENTCHEFF-Nicolas. Died December 22, 2002, age 91, after a long illness. Born in Bulgaria. Educated in Bulgaria, London School of Economics (BS) and Columbia University, NY (MA). Reporter for Zora, Sofia's leading daily; sent to London in 1936. Became Press Attache to Bulgarian Legation, Lo
 ROSENBLATT - Robert W. 80, on December 28. Loving and devoted husband of Helene (Scheuer). Father of Bill and Roberta, Ron and Susy, David and Robyn, Larry and Linda, Ann and Stuart. Brother of Richard and Lois, Peter and Naomi. Grandfather of Charles, Marc, Becky and Josh and Devon, Casson
 SACKS-Roger, D.D.S. A man of honor, great courage and dignity. He was a graduate of Stuyvesant High School 1954, Columbia College 1958, and Columbia College of Dentistry 1962. He was a published cartoonist who brought his wit with him wherever he went. He leaves his beloved wife Arlene, his
 SKINNER-David B., M.D. The Department of Surgery at Weill Medical College of Cornell University mourns the passing of Dr. David B. Skinner, President Emeritus of NewYork - Presbyterian Hospital and Professor of Surgery at Weill Cornell Medical College. Dr. Skinner's contributions to surgery
 SOLOMON-Irving I. January 28, 2003, in his 84th year of a life fully enjoyed. He was first the husband of the late Frieda Solomon who together were the parents of Maxinne (Irwin), Stephanie, Marc and Charisse and the grandparents of Lori, Gayle, Debra, Jason and Joshua, all of whom survive 
 TAUB - Daniel Alexander. Born in NYC, September 16, 1915 and died at home on January 29, 2003. Maintaining residences in both Queens, NY and Palm Beach Gardens, FL, Dan was a loving husband to Blanche for 57 years. Dan obtained his business degree from the Baruch School at the City College 
 ZILDJIAN-Armand. Of Scottsdale, Arizona, and Quechee, Vermont (formerly Hingham, MA), President and Chairman of the Zildjian Company in Norwell, MA, died Thursday at his home in Scottsdale. He was 81. Born in Quincy, he attended local schools, including Thayer Academy and Colgate University
 ZIMMERMAN-Dr. Louis. On December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Helen Helfstein Zimmerman. Devoted father of Peter Max Zimmerman and Mindy Zimmerman Colton. Dear fatherin-law of Paul Franklin Colton. Dear brother of the late Ida Revitz and Zeta Turtle. Also survived by other loving f
 Stan Martin, a cabaret expert and longtime New York radio personality who for six years helped run The New York Times's popular-music station, WQEW-AM, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was a stroke, his sister, Rochelle Levy Steinhardt, said. Mr. Martin joi
 Dr. Alexander Thomas, a child psychiatrist who served as director of psychiatry at Bellevue and whose research revealed much about the nature of human temperament, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89. For much of his professional life, Dr. Thomas worked 
 Leslie Fiedler, the maverick man of letters whose best-known book, ''Love and Death in the American Novel,'' attempted to tear away traditional masks of literary discourse and engage the deeper autobiographical and psychological considerations that might motivate the critic, died on Wednesd
 Lester Osterman, a Broadway theater producer and theater owner who won three Tony Awards for his productions of ''Da,'' ''The Shadow Box'' and ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' died on Tuesday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 88. A successful Wall Street broker who did not disco
 AGNELLI - Giovanni. The Board of Trustees of the World Monuments Fund mourns the loss of Giovanni Agnelli, who with his beloved wife Marella, was a recipient of WMF's 1992 Hadrian Award. Giovanni Agnelli was an extraordinary international leader whose sponsorship of cultural activities adva
 AUBUSSON-Chrystian. The longtime French antiques dealer, Chrystian Count Aubusson de Cavarlay, passed away January 29, at the age of 82 in his Easthampton home. He was a much beloved and esteemed Manhattan antiques dealer who maintained his shop, Chrystian Aubusson Antiques, starting in New
 AUGUST-Neil, M.D. On January 29, 2003 in West Palm Beach, FL. Formerly of Ossining and Denver. Devoted to family, wise and dedicated physician, and dear friend. We will miss his camaraderie, counsel and love. Barbara and Jerry Rosmarin       
 BALDWIN-William H. At the age of 82 on December 23, 2002. Dearly loved and loving husband, father, brother and granddad. Survived by his wife Margot, sons Glenn and Mark, brothers Charles and Paul (Billingham), sister Elizabeth Rowland, grandchildren Matthew and Dana and a host of friends. 
 BARASH-David. December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Laura Goodfriend and Stephanie Becker. Cherished grandfather of Scott Becker, Lisa and Galen Giebler, Lawrence and Jennifer Goodfriend, Amy and Jon Nussbaum. Proud great-grandfather of Cadie Mae. Loving c
 BARRECA-Laurence E., 85, of Palm Beach, FL. died at his home Sunday, January 26th. A native New Yorker, he attended P.S. 97, James Madison High School and NYU. Mr. Barreca teamed up with Frederick Jambes to acquire and develop several townhomes on East 61st and 5000 acres of mixed use prope
 BRAGER-George, 80. Of Mount Vernon, N.Y. Loving, compassionate, and devoted husband, father, and grandfather whose empathy, wit and charm affected all around him, died on January 29, 2003 of complications from cardio - pulmonary disease. Brager was a highly respected social worker whose car
 BROWNING - John. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its beloved friend, the eminent American pianist John Browning, on January 26, 2003 at the age of 69. A Steinway Artist for more than 46 years, Mr. Browning was an articulate master of the piano
 COHEN-Andrew S. Age 44, of St. Paul, died unexpectedly on January 27, 2003. Andrew was born March 3, 1958, in Washington, DC. He grew up in Manhattan and attended The Dalton School and various colleges including Hampshire College, the University of Vermont and George Washington University. 
 CONSTON-Eve. The Board of Directors and the staff of our two organizations extend our heartfelt condolences to our Vice President, Henry S. Conston, Esq., on the loss of his beloved spouse. Our thoughts are with him. Margaret Tietz Center for Nursing Care George Berlstein, Chairman The New 
 DeMAIO-Paul N. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire DeMaio family. We know he will be missed. Lisa and Warren Waters       
 KAHN-Stephen, 83. Of Scarsdale, NY, died January 29, 2003. Beloved husband of Eva. Father of Wendy, Jeffrey, and James. Grandfather of six. President of Hofor Tobacco, veteran, ardent historian, linguist, mineralogist. He will be dearly missed. Service 11 AM Friday, Congregation Kol Ami, Wh
 LEAHEY-Michael I. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the sudden, untimely passing of Michael Leahey. As the founding director of the Office of Clinical Trials at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, Michael understood the fundamental role of clinical trials in the advance
 LEEDS-Laurence C. III. Our wonderful Cary, devoted son, beloved brother, uncle, grandson and nephew. We admired and respected you so much. Strong, kind, sensitive, caring, generous, proud, brave, independent, beautiful soul. Gallant, chivalrous, charismatic. Handsome, graceful, marvelous at
 LEVINE-Dr. Sidney. The Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the passing of a prominent pediatrician in Rockland County who was also a highly respected Torah scholar. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Shirley and to his children Dr. Joseph I. Levine, member of the Ye
 LOO-Dr. Robert K. Professor at Queensborough Community College. Passed peacefully on December 25, 2002, in Queens, NY. Born in Hawaii on May 1, 1937. Survived by wife Dr. Margaret T. Pan-Loo, four sons and four grandchildren. His family and friends were blessed with his love. The family wil
 MARTIN-Stan. Henry Street Settlement's Board of Directors and its Boys and Girls Republic Advisory Board mourn the passing of Stan Martin, Advisory Board Member and Trustee for over 20 years. We thank him for his many years of service and dedication to the youth of the Lower East Side. We s
 MORTON-Herbert C. 81, died on December 21, 2002, at his home in Bethesda, MD. He was an editor and publisher and author of books on economics, the work place, scholarly communication, and lexicography. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Orlans Morton, and two daughters by his first wife Do
 PENTCHEFF-Nicolas. Died December 22, 2002, age 91, after a long illness. Born in Bulgaria. Educated in Bulgaria, London School of Economics (BS) and Columbia University, NY (MA). Reporter for Zora, Sofia's leading daily; sent to London in 1936. Became Press Attache to Bulgarian Legation, Lo
 ROSENBLATT - Robert W. 80, on December 28. Loving and devoted husband of Helene (Scheuer). Father of Bill and Roberta, Ron and Susy, David and Robyn, Larry and Linda, Ann and Stuart. Brother of Richard and Lois, Peter and Naomi. Grandfather of Charles, Marc, Becky and Josh and Devon, Casson
 SACKS-Roger, D.D.S. A man of honor, great courage and dignity. He was a graduate of Stuyvesant High School 1954, Columbia College 1958, and Columbia College of Dentistry 1962. He was a published cartoonist who brought his wit with him wherever he went. He leaves his beloved wife Arlene, his
 ZILDJIAN-Armand. Of Scottsdale, Arizona, and Quechee, Vermont (formerly Hingham, MA), President and Chairman of the Zildjian Company in Norwell, MA, died Thursday at his home in Scottsdale. He was 81. Born in Quincy, he attended local schools, including Thayer Academy and Colgate University
 ZIMMERMAN-Dr. Louis. On December 28, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Helen Helfstein Zimmerman. Devoted father of Peter Max Zimmerman and Mindy Zimmerman Colton. Dear fatherin-law of Paul Franklin Colton. Dear brother of the late Ida Revitz and Zeta Turtle. Also survived by other loving f
