 Carl Gorman, a gentle Navajo artist who talked his way valiantly through some of the fiercest fighting of World War II, died on Thursday at a hospital in Gallup, N.M. He was 90 and the oldest of the 400 Navajo code talkers who were proud to call themselves Washindon be Akalh B-kosi-lai, or,
 James J. O'Brien Sr., a former executive at the Chase Manhattan Bank and on Wall Street, died on Friday at Johns Hopkins Geriatric Rehabilitation Center in Baltimore. He was 88. The cause of death was pneumonia, his daughter Patricia O'Brien Roth said. Mr. O'Brien joined Cha
 Jarlath J. Graham, a former editor of Advertising Age, died on Jan. 24 at Wagner Health Center in Evanston, Ill. Mr. Graham, a resident of Chicago, was 78. The cause of death was cancer, said Carol Graham, his daughter. Mr. Graham, who was known as Jack, joined Advertising A
 Joseph E. Marine, a Democratic State Senator from the North Bronx in the 1960's, died Sunday at the Oakwood Health Facility in Amherst, N.Y. He was 92 and had lived in Oceanside, N.Y., after his stint in Albany. Mr. Marine entered the Senate in 1960, representing the borough's Wakef
 BISHOP-Walter Jr. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers records with sorrow the passing of our member, Walter Bishop Jr., on January 24, 1998 in New York City. We express our condolences to his family and join the jazz world in mourning his loss. Marilyn Bergman Presiden
 BROCK-Henry J. Of Village of Golf, Florida, and Osterville, Massachusetts, died suddenly at his home January 29, 1998. He was 87 years old. Mr. Brock was born in Jersey City, New Jersey, in 1910, was graduated by Fordham University in 1931 and by Fordham Law School in 1934. In the years pri
 COOPER-Eve. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Jewish National Fund of Greater New York extend our sincere sympathy and condolences to Malcom Thomson, our President, and his wife Barbara on the passing of Barbara's mother, Eve Cooper. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion
 GANG-Martin. The Officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee mourn the death of Martin Gang, a distinguished partner in the Los Angeles law firm of Gang, Tyre, Ramer and Brown, and an AJC Honorary National Vice President, as well as a member of our Board of Governors and Na
 GELLES-Jess on January 30 1998. Beloved husband and best friend of Claire; loving father of Betty Hurwitz and Mark Gelles. Brother of Arnold; beloved ''Papa'' to all his grandchildren. Services private       
 GENN-Bernard. All his friends and colleagues at Yeshiva University and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine extend deepest condolences to Emanuel Genn, the medical school's associate dean for business affairs, on the passing of his father. We wish Manny and the entire Genn family the com
 GOLDBERG-Rabbi Julius. The Plainview Jewish Center deeply mourns the loss of its Rabbi Emeritus, who served the congregation faithfully for four decades. As senior rabbi, he built a small new synagogue, Plainview's first, into a large, vibrant institution. His wisdom, vision, courage and ac
 GOULD-Solomon. The Trustees of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center note with profound sorrow the death of a distinguished past member and Honorary Trustee. Since 1978 Mr. Gould was a dedicated and inspired leader, an enthusiastic organizer and supporter of many fundraising 
 GRAHAM-Arnold H. The Board of Trustees, faculty and staff of New York Law School mourn the loss of Arnold H. Graham, a graduate of the Class of 1952 and a professor and Vice Dean for Finance and Administration, 1976-1986. He will be deeply missed. Taylor R. Briggs, Chair of the Board of Tru
 HORVATH-Stanley S. On January 29, 1998. Beloved husband of Marcia. Father of Jordan and Lisa. Grandfather of Paul. Brother of Evelyn Seidman. We will miss him very much. Funeral service Sunday 11:30 AM at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st St. and Amsterdam.       
 HUGHES-Eugene ''Gene''. Age 56, formerly of New Jersey and New York City, died peacefully on the 10th of January 1998. Gene Hughes was in the jewelry business for many years. He will be missed by his wife Mindy, his parents, and his entire family.       
 JACOBSON-Sam. In his 106th year on January 30, 1998. Loving, and loved, devoted father of Bette (Phil) Baum, Charlotte (Mel) Perelman. Two grandsons, four great-grandchildren. At rest in Chicago with Corrine and Bess.       
 KANELOUS-George. Renowned artist, loving husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. His life, his art touched us all.       
 KRAMER-Philip. January 30, 1998 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Sarah. Loving father of Noelle and Robert, Marilyn and Howard, Glenn and Lynn. Devoted grandfather of Seth, Marc, Allison, Jeffrey, Randee, Douglas, Alexander, Robyn and Kira. Loving great-grandfather of Ross, Brett and A
 MARANS-Victor. On January 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Harriet. Adored father of Jill. Cherished grandfather of Alexandra Blair. Devoted brother of Audrey. Dear father-in-law of Mitchell Lubin. He will be sorely missed.       
 PLOTKIN-Harry Morris. On Friday, January 30, 1998 at his residence. Husband of the late Esther Plotkin; father of Ira Lev Plotkin (Kay); Judith Deborah Wilkenfeld (Jonathan); brother of Melvin Plotkin (Esther); Norman Plotkin (Rosalind) and Lena Gordon. Also survived by his grandchildren, N
 SCHOENFELD - Alex. Beloved husband of Clara Olin Schoenfeld. Devoted father of Michael and Leonard and their wives Claudia and Joanne. Beloved step-father of Janet Olin and the late David Olin. Beloved grandpa of Jennifer and Jonathan. His warmth and humanity will be missed. Services Sunday
 SOHN-Samuel. Died at age 97-1/2. Loving father of Mildred and Ellis Greene and Lenore Sohn. Grandfather of Mark, Ellen, Teri and Robin. Great-grandfather of Brian, Jeremy, Rachel, Alexis, Joshua, Evan and Bryan. He is now with his beloved wife, Mary, and son, Sandy.       
 WEILER-George A., 83. Of New York City and Garrison, NY on January 25. Beloved husband of Barbara Carroll, devoted father of Jane and John Weiler and Ellen Stiefler, loving grandfather of Zachary, Timothy and Robert Stiefler, Daniel and Joshua SchneiderWeiler and Margaret Weiler; dear broth
 YOUNG-Augustus (Gus). Beloved husband of Susanne, adored father of Kenny, Jeff, and Debbie. Unique brother of Murray and Sid and special uncle. Musician, cartoonist and engineer loved by all who knew him. Services Sunday 12:15 PM ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave., NYC.       
 Samuel D. Wright, a former City Councilman from Brooklyn and a former New York State Assemblyman who was chairman of the Black and Puerto Rican Caucus in both legislative bodies, died on Jan. 20 at his home in Hilton Head, S.C., where he lived in retirement. He was 73. The cause was
 Victor Pasmore, painter, printmaker, educator and for more than 50 years a volatile but invaluable figure in the British art world, died on Jan. 22 at his home on the island of Malta. He was 87. Mr. Pasmore lived the successive adventures of contemporary art and added something of h
 Woody Romoff, who moved effortlessly for a half-century between the worlds of Broadway and light opera, died on Jan. 20 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan, just down the block from his former apartment. He was 79. One of four sons born to Romanian and Hungaria
 Bob Russell, an inveterate entertainer who sang, joked, composed, wrote, staged and M.C.'d his way through an eclectic half-century career in the very penumbra of the national limelight, died on Jan. 24 at a hospital near his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90. A baritone who yearned 
 Hector Eduardo Cabanillas, a retired Argentine Army colonel who was responsible for the military Government's effort to hide the body of Eva Peron, died on Jan. 30. He was 84 and suffered from a long illness, an army spokesman said. Colonel Cabanillas was in charge of military intel
 Joseph E. Marine, a Democratic State Senator from the North Bronx in the 1960's, died on Jan. 25 at the Oakwood Health Facility in Amherst, N.Y. He was 92 and had lived in Oceanside, N.Y., after his stint in Albany. Mr. Marine entered the Senate in 1960, representing the borough's W
 Kenneth Sherbell, a state senator from Brooklyn in the late 1940's, died on Jan. 23 at Parkway Hospital in Queens. He was 80 and lived in the Jamaica Estates section of Queens. He had a long illness, said his daughter, Suzanne Sherbell. Mr. Sherbell, a member of the old Amer
 Mario Schifano, one of Italy's best-known contemporary painters, died on Jan. 26 at the Santo Spirito Hospital in Rome. He was 63 and lived in Rome. The cause was a heart attack, his doctors said. Mr. Schifano was born in Homs, Libya, in 1934. He moved to Rome with his famil
 Marshall W. Wiley, a retired career diplomat and expert on the Arab world who was Ambassador to Oman, died on Saturday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 72 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was acute leukemia, said his wife, Marjorie. Mr. Wile
 FITZGERALD-John T. On February 1, 1998. He was born and raised in New York City and was a graduate of Xavier High School, New York University and New York Law School. He worked in real estate management in New York City for over 50 years. He is survived by his wife, Doris, and two daughters
 GOLDBERG-Rabbi Julius. It is with deep sorrow that we note the passing of our beloved Rabbi, friend and advisor. Our heartfelt condolences to his loving wife Bette, his children and grandchildren. The Plainview Jewish Center and the Plainview Jewish community are where they are today becaus
 GREENE-John M. Age 92, of Great River, LI, (formerly of Sayville) on January 31, 1998. Devoted husband of the late Kathryne. Loving father of Marilyn G. Walser and the late Barbara Dagher. Fond grandfather of ten and great-grandfather of twelve. Retired senior partner of Greene, Murray & Da
 HAMPTON-Monroe. Beloved husband of the late Pearl. Devoted father of Richard and Michael Hampton. Dear brother of Roy Hampton and Amelia Berenson. He will be missed.       
 KRAMER-Philip. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Friday, January 30, 1998. He will be missed. Barry Berger, President       
 LUKE-Duncan M. 67, on January 31, 1998, at Equinox Terrace, Manchester Center, VT. Father of Gregory G., Manchester Center. Brother of Donald K. Luke, New Canaan, CT. A memorial service will be held on a date to be announced. Contributions in his name may be made to the Rutland Area Visitin
 SCHAPIRA-Hans E., MD. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Ralph and Marilyn and Paul and Nicole. Dear brother of Kurt. Loving grandfather of Emily, Alex and Aaron. Service Monday, 11:30 AM, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions 
 Renzo Mongiardino, a stage and screen set designer who also was called the world's greatest living interior decorator, died on Jan. 16 in Milan, Italy, where he lived. He was 81. The cause was a variety of ailments, including pneumonia, that stemmed from an operation in November to 
 Dr. Virgil E. Barnes, a geologist who contended that the black glassy beads called tektites, which had been regarded as extraterrestrial objects, were created from soil and rock by catastrophic cosmic collisions, some as many as 35 million years ago, died on Wednesday at Seton Medical Cente
 Alfred Edward Maumenee, director emeritus of the Wilmer Eye Institute at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, died on Jan. 18 at his home in Port Clear, Ala. He was 84 and lived in Stevenson, Md., until his retirement in 1991. An eye surgeon and former William Holland Wilmer prof
 Clifford D. Siverd, a former chairman of the American Cyanamid Company, died on Jan. 16 at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 85. Mr. Siverd was named president and chief executive of American Cyanamid in 1967, and was appointed chairman in 1972. He continued Cyanamid's 
 J. Scott Howard, a risk management expert who was a vice president of J. P. Morgan & Company in New York, died on Jan. 14 at Mount Sinai Hospital after a long hospitalization for cancer. He was 53 years old and lived in Hightstown, N.J. Mr. Howard spent 27 years with J. P. Morgan. H
 John Taylor Ellis, a pathologist and educator who was pathologist in chief at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and chairman of the Pathology Department at Cornell University Medical College from 1968 to 1994, died on Jan. 10 at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 77 and live
 Nino Pirrotta, an influential Italian musicologist, died on Jan. 15 in his native Palermo. He was 89. Mr. Pirrotta is best known for having brought new and rigorous techniques to the study of music, asserting that music history should be examined within the broader context of litera
 BLOCKTON-Herbert James. Died peacefully at home February 2, 1998, surrounded by his family and devoted friend Bill Simpson. Devoted and loving husband of Lyn, adoring father of Bill and wife Kathy, Marilyn and husband Robert. Adoring brother to Lily Newton. Cherished grandfather of Jesse, B
 CASH-William Bradbury. Formerly of Minneapolis, died on January 30, 1998. A graduate of Dartmouth College, he joined the Navy and was one of the first graduates of the ''90 Day'' officer school at Annapolis. He was a vice president of General Mills, and in 1963 joined United Biscuit Company
 DRUCK-Abraham. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved father of its devoted member, Dr. Andrew Druck. May his entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 EDINSON-George. On February 1, 1998 at age 95. Beloved husband of Jeanette. Loving father of Constance. Grandfather of Richard and Larry. Great grandfather of Jonathan and Evan. His memory will stay with us forever.       
 FULOP-George D. Suddenly on January 31, 1998, of Seaford, cherished son of Judith and Laszlo and stepson of Anne. Loving companion of Lisa Finno. Loving brother of Thomas and his wife Donna, and Jacqueline and stepbrother of Michael Grimes and Thomas Grimes and his wife Susan. Also survived
 GRAD-John D. Died February 2, 1998 at the age of fifty, after a brave battle with brain cancer. He was the son of the late Thelma Grad and James Grad, husband of Rae Krohn Grad, father of Arlen, Rebecca and Aaron, brother of Adrian Grad Adolphe and Maxine Grad, uncle of Julia Adolphe, Sophi
 GULLEN-Henry S. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation extends sincere sympathies to Trustee Joseph Browne on the passing of his father-in-law Henry S. Gullen. Our condolences to Karyn Browne and to all the family. We hope the loving memories of 
 HEALY-E. Patrick. Actor and graduate of The American Academy of Dramatic Arts, OAS Director, Peace Corps Director, Job Corps Founder, Harvard BA, MBA and overseas veteran of two wars, was born on October 21, 1925, in Chicago, Illinois and died of heart failure in New York City, January 31, 
 KAHN-Fred. On January 30, 1998, at age 92. Beloved by family and friends, his love of life, art and people was extraordinary. Contributions to Marlboro School of Music, Marlboro, Vermont.       
 KRAMER-Philip. The Officers of Amerada Hess Corporation express their deep sorrow at the loss of their esteemed colleague and close friend, Philip Kramer. Mr. Kramer's leadership as President of Amerada Hess from 1972 to 1986, and his advice and guidance as a Director of Amerada Hess from 1
 LUKE-Duncan M., 67, on January 31, 1998, at Equinox Terrace, Manchester Center, VT. Father of Gregory G., Manchester Center. Brother of Donald K. Luke, New Canaan, CT. A memorial service will be held on a date to be announced. Contributions in his name may be made to the Rutland Area Visiti
 MAHLER-Eugene W. February 1, 1998. Of Hewlett, NY and Boynton Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Irene and the late Lillian. Devoted father of Marilyn Konoson, Charlotte Wachsman and Howard Mahler. Loving stepfather to Joy Mazur, Beverly Sarachek and Laura Norman. Dear brother of Adair Good
 MILLGRAM-Rabbi Abraham Ezra. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, age 96. Ordained in 1927, he served congregations in Wilmington, DE., and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and then as Hillel Director at the University of Minnesota. In 1945, Rabbi Millgram became Educationa
 MILLS-Sanford. Feb. 1, 1998, beloved husband of the late Shirley (Levin) Mills. Residence 69 Boon Street, Narragansett, R.I. Dear father of Richard Mills, Hungary and Boston, MA., Dr. Keith Mills, Philadelphia, PA., Chana Smith, Brooklyn, NY, Ide Mills-Ratinetz, NYC and Joan Sullivan, Mysti
 PALMER-Robert Louis. Age 86 of Shalimar, Florida, former Vice President and Treasurer of Cluett, Peabody and Company, Inc., passed away on January 31, 1998. Funeral services will be held at 1 PM, February 3 at the Rose-Neath Funeral Home in Shreveport, Louisiana, with his brother-in-law, th
 RHULEN-Walter, 66. On January 31, 1998 following a five-month battle against leukemia. Beloved husband of Judith, devoted father of Suzanne Loughlin, Harry, Erik and Anthony Rhulen, and grandfather of Juliette, Trevor, Zoe and Max. Memorial service February 8, 11 AM, Frontier Headquarters R
 SCHAPIRA-Hans E., M.D. On January 31. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Ralph and Marilyn and Paul and Nicole. Dear brother of Kurt. Loving grandfather of Emily, Alex and Aaron. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Hans E. Schapira, M.D., Foundation, Inc., 335 West 246 
 SCHWARZ-Erwin, 93. Of Tucson, AZ. Formerly of New York City and of Scarsdale, NY, died in Gaithersburg, MD, on February 1, 1998. He was married to the late Louise Lasker Schwarz for over 40 years and leaves his wife of 23 years, Julia B. (Judy) Schwarz, three children, Arthur of Scarsdale, 
 SILVERMAN-Jerome Irving. Beloved father of Mark, Dara, Scott and Gregory, loving companion of Svetlana, passed away on January 30, 1998. Also survived by two sisters, a brother and his cat, Casey. Service will be held at The Palisades Presbyterian Church on Tuesday, February 3rd, 12 noon. J
 SLAFF-Melvin B. On 1st of February 1998. Survived by his beloved wife, Mary; loving children Richard Slaff of Rockland, ME., Kathleen Nann of Dennis, MA., Stuart Slaff of Camden, ME., and William Nolan of Freeport, NY; brothers Myron Slaff of Scarsdale, NY and Marvin Slaff of Marina Del Rey
 Samuel Eilenberg, an eminent mathematician and collector of  Asian art, died on Friday at the Isabella Geriatric Center in upper Manhattan, where he had been for three months. He was 84 and had been a longtime resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He had been in poor health 
 C. Lane Fortinberry, a media consultant and former executive at Time Inc. and The New York Times, died last Wednesday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said Steve Ellwanger, a friend. Mr. Fortinberry retired in 1976 as publisher of Lif
 John Peter McGoff, a conservative Republican fund-raiser, entrepreneur and onetime owner of a string of small radio stations and newspapers, died on Jan. 21 at his home in Charlevoix, Mich. He was 73. The cause was cancer, according to The Macomb Daily of Mount Clemens, Mich., which
 BLOOM-Dr. Samuel M. Of Longboat Key, Florida, formerly of Bayridge, Brooklyn died peacefully at the age of 95 on February 2, 1998. Devoted husband of the late Fan. Loving brother of the late Harry and Jack. Beloved father of Elinor and father-in-law of the late Dr. Murry Friedman. Adored ''
 BLUMENFELD-Irving B., MD. Age 95, of Venice, FL on February 1st. He is survived by his wife Margaret, children Barbara Barsky, Donna Schickler, Marilyn Bradley, Seth Blumenfeld, Judith Shafran, Debbie Martin and sister Beatrice Brodman. Beloved grandfather and great-grandfather.       
 CASSILLY-Richard. New York City Opera mourns the passing of a good friend and coleague, Richard Cassilly. He joined the City Opera in 1955, and over the years provided us with many memorable evenings in the theater. He has been a continuing supporter of our company, a caring friend and coll
 KELLER-Samuel Stephen. Age 71 of Woodcliff Lake, N.J., February 3. Beloved husband and best friend of Sonia, devoted father and hero of Marian, Allen and Jeffrey, devoted father-in-law of Glenn, Suzy and Adina. Loving brother of Iris, loving grandfather of Andrew and Rachel. He was born in 
 MASKET-David C., 67. Died on February 3, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan Gellinoff Masket, loving father of Steven and Elaine Masket, Mary-Ellen and David Stein, Elizabeth and Jonathan Sommer. Adored grandfather of Willy, Alex, Dana, Adam, Matthew and Allison. Devoted brother of Darcy Greher 
 RESNICK-Samuel J. On February 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Amy. Cherished father of Johanna, Leslie, Jonathan and Maxanne, and father-in-law of Michael, Lenny, Susan and Brian. Adored grandfather of Rebecca, Daniel, Aviva, Staci, Benjamin, Zachary and Gabrielle. Sam was a wise, loving and ge
 SCHAPIRA-Hans E., M.D. The Mount Sinai Association of the Attending Staff mourns the passing of Dr. Hans Schapira, Clinical Professor of Urology and our long - standing colleague. He graced Mount Sinai for more than 30 years with his clinical expertise, humanity, sophistication and elegance
 SCHWARZ-Erwin, 93. Of Tucson, AZ. Formerly of New York City and of Scarsdale, NY, died in Gaithersburg, MD, on February 1, 1998. He was married to the late Louise Lasker Schwarz for over 40 years and leaves his wife of 23 years, Julia B. (Judy) Schwarz, three children, Arthur of Scarsdale, 
 STEVENS-Roger L. The Chancellors, Directors, and Staff of The Academy of American Poets mourn the loss of Roger Stevens, a generous friend of American poetry, an esteemed advisor to the Academy, and a member of the Board of Directors since 1982. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, C
 WILEY-W. Bradford. The entire community of John Wiley & Sons, Inc., deeply mourns the loss of Bradford Wiley, our retired chairman and CEO. Brad Wiley dedicated his life to publishing; he was one of those rare individuals who have influenced the course not only of a company but of an entire
 The American tenor Richard Cassilly, who was a mainstay in the heldentenor repertory in opera houses around the world for 30 years, died on Friday in Boston, where he lived. He was 70. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said. Mr. Cassilly had a 6 foot 3 inch, 25
 Robert Gordon Main, a former appeals judge and Republican Assemblyman from New York's North Country, died on Monday at Alice Hyde Hospital in upstate Malone, N.Y. A native and resident of Malone, he was 80. He was practicing with the firm of Main & Pond when he was elected to repres
 Roger L. Stevens, the real estate magnate, legendary Broadway producer and bravura fund-raiser who enriched Washington's cultural life by finding ways to create the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and by leading it for its first 17 years, died on Monday at Georgetown Universi
 Franklin M. Kreml, a former police officer who became an internationally known authority on traffic, including policing and safety, and on transportation in general, died on Jan. 28 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 91 and lived in Chicago. A formative moment in Mr. Krem
 Gary Nardino, a television executive who was instrumental in bringing long-running programs like ''Happy Days,'' ''Cheers'' and ''Taxi'' into American homes, died at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles on Saturday of complications from a stroke, Bill Nuss, his business partner, said.
 Junior Hernandez, whose Spanish-language morning program was the second-most popular radio show in New York City, died of a heart attack yesterday afternoon. He was 34 and lived in the Bronx. Mr. Hernandez, who suffered from asthma, was stricken outside his offices at WSKQ-FM in mid
 CASSILLY-Richard. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of our beloved colleague and friend, Richard Cassilly. A versatile and generous artist, he sang more than 150 performances of 14 roles with the company, and created the roles of Jimmy Mahoney in Weill's ''Mahagonny'' and the t
 GARTENBERG-Ann. The Board of Directors of the City College Fund wishes to express its deepest sympathy to Seymour Gartenberg and his family. Herbert Robinson, President James L. Schatz Acting Executive Director       
 GLOVER-Stuart. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Stuart (Bus) Glover. A member since 1931, he was a former Board Member and Officer. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his 
 GLOVER-Stuart B. (Bus). Attorney, at age 92. A resident of Scarsdale for over fifty years, died at his home Feb. 4, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Peggy Glover. Devoted father of James, Richard, Amy, Elaine and Kathryn. Beloved grandfather of Eric, Rachel, Lori and Peter. Funeral service
 KLEIN-Saul. Of Beverly Hills, CA, formerly of New York City. Born Vienna, Austria, 4/13/16. Died in Los Angeles, 2/3/98. With brothers and sisters, founded Barton's Bonbonniere, America's first kosher European chocolates. Survived by his children, Jessica and David, both of Los Angeles, sis
 MASKET-David C., 67. Died on February 3, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan Gellinoff Masket, loving father of Steven and Elaine Masket, Mary-Ellen and David Stein, Elizabeth and Jonathan Sommer. Adored grandfather of Willy, Alex, Dana, Adam, Matthew and Allison. Devoted brother of Darcy Greher 
 OZTEMEL-Ara. Monday, Feb. 2, 1998, died in Key Biscayne, FL., after a brief illness. Born in 1926 in Istanbul, Turkey, Ara Oztemel became a pioneer in trade with the Soviet Union. In the midst of the Cold War Mr. Oztemel believed in commerce as the most significant force for peace between n
 SCHWARZ-Erwin, 93. Of Tucson, Arizona formerly of New York City and of Scarsdale, N.Y. Died in Gaithersburg, Maryland on February 1, 1998. He was married to the late Louise Lasker Schwarz for over 40 years and leaves his wife of 23 years Julia B. (Judy) Schwarz, three children, Arthur of Sc
 SCHWEP-Charles F. Died on February 2, 1998. Survived by his wife, Joy C.; two sons, Charles F. and David C.; four grandchildren, and a sister Rita Bass. Memorial service Saturday, 2:00PM, at the Dutch Reform Church, Strawtown Road, West Nyack.       
 SIMMONS-Harry. January 14, 1998 at the Waveny Care Center in New Canaan, Connecticut. He was 90 years old. Harry was a baseball historian, writer, schedule maker, and The Authority on the rules of the game. He worked for the International Baseball League from 1945 until 1966 first in New Yo
 SLOUN-Reverend Russell John. S.J., 54. On February 2, 1998. Beloved son of Sultana and the late Robert. Brother of Eileen Sloun. He entered the Society of Jesus on August 14, 1960. He was ordained on May 26, 1973. Father Sloun taught modern languages at Fordham Prep and for the last ten yea
 STEVENS-Roger Lacey. On Monday, February 2nd, 1998, of Washington, D.C. Beloved husband of Christine Stevens; father of Christabel Gough; Brother-inLaw of Nina Stevens; also survived by a nephew, Harlow Stevens, Jr. Services private. A memorial service at the John F. Kennedy Center for the 
 STREIT-Jack. On February 3, 1998, after a long illness. President of Aron Streit, Inc., matzo bakers since the turn of the century. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Katz Streit. Devoted father of Myrna Heilbrun, Nettie Streit and the late Arlyne Yagoda. Loving grandfather of Aron, Michele, 
 STURGIS-Norman R. Of Fort Myers, FL. and Small Point, ME. died of cancer on February 4, 1998. He is survived by Linda Terry Sturgis, his wife of fifty-five years, two sons, Nathaniel R. Sturgis and John T. T. Sturgis, both of Missoula, MT, six grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Also
 SUZUKI-Dr. Arata. Friends and colleagues at Capintec Inc mourn the loss of Dr. Arata Suzuki, Senior Scientist for over twenty-five years. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to his family at their grievous loss. Arthur M. Weis, President SUZUKI-Dr. Arata. The Board of Directors of Capin
 WEINSTEIN-Max J., M.D. On February 3, 1998. The last of seven children, at the age of 92. Adored by his patients. Beloved husband of the late Esther, devoted father to his son Kenneth who followed in his footsteps, his daughter Marcia who passed away in 1958, and his daughter-in-law Frida. 
 WILEY-W. Bradford. The Board of Directors and staff of the National Book Foundation extend condolences to the Chairman of our Board, Deborah Wiley, and to the entire Wiley family on the passing of W. Bradford Wiley. He was a stalwart pioneer in book publishing, and he has left a magnificent
 W. Bradford Wiley, a sixth-generation publisher who was a watchful guardian of the independence of the family-controlled John Wiley & Sons Inc., died Tuesday at his home in Summit, N.J. He was 87. Mr. Wiley started in the company in 1932 as a college book salesman, eventually rising
 A. Keith Brodkin, chairman and chief executive of MFS Investment Management, which oversees the MFS family of mutual funds, the country's 21st-largest fund company, died on Monday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 62. The cause was an embolism, said John Reilly, a sp
 Alan K. Campbell, the architect of the most sweeping changes in the Federal civil-service laws since the Administration of Theodore Roosevelt -- changes aimed at making the Government more efficient and enabling it to dismiss employees more easily for failing to do their jobs -- died on Wed
 Cristobal Martinez-Bordiu, a surgeon who married Gen. Francisco Franco's only child in 1950 and later led the medical team attending the dictator until his death in 1975, died on Wednesday in the Ruber Internacional hospital in Madrid. He was 75. The cause of death was a cerebral he
 Jack Streit, a master matzoh maker devoted to keeping an ancient tradition and a family business alive on the Lower East Side, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Streit was president of Aron Streit Inc., the last independent matzoh company. 
 AVNER-Jacob. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved father of its devoted member, June Brenner. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood AVNER-Jacob. 
 BENSING-Robert F. Age 42. Of Atlanta, Georgia. Died on February 3, 1998. A prominent civil rights attorney, Mr. Bensing died as a result of injuries sustained in an automobile accident in Adel, GA. He was a graduate of Dickinson College in Carlisle, PA, where he was also a graduate of Dicki
 BORN-John H., MD. Died of heart failure at age 91 on January 30 in Delray Beach, Florida. Dr. Born was a 1928 graduate of Columbia College and received his medical degree from P&S in 1935. He was an attending ophthalmologist at Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital for over 40 years and was a Fell
 CAMPBELL-Alan K. The trustees, staff and associates of The Institute of Public Administration mourn the death of fellow trustee Alan K. Campbell. Scotty's leadership, wisdom and wit were an inspiration to all who worked with him. His friendship will be sorely missed.       
 CASSILLY-Richard. The students, faculty, and staff of the School for the Arts at Boston University mourn the loss of our friend and faculty colleague, Richard Cassilly. A wonderfully gifted singer and devoted teacher, he was loved and admired by his many students and fellow artists alike. W
 EILENBERG - Samuel. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Samuel Eilenberg, a longtime friend and Benefactor of the Museum. His generous gift of Indian and Southeast Asian works of art from a superb collection that he amassed over decades has greatly 
 FURMAN-Earle L., DDS. Of Chatham, New Jersey, February 4, 1998. Beloved husband of Mary Hartung Furman. Devoted father of Marilyn Furman O'Donnell of New York, NY; and twin sons Richard Earle of Deerfield Beach, Florida and Robert John of West Orange, NJ. Proud grandfather of Julia, Holly a
 GEWANTER-David. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Devoted father of Michael and Arlene Gewanter, and Joyce and Michael Bonder. Loving grandfather of Alyson Gewanter, Amy and Adam Curcio, Arin and Sandy Sandorfi, Adam Gewanter, Cherie Bonder and Robert Bonder. Services ''Boulevard - River
 GLOVER-Stuart B. (Bus). Attorney, at age 92. A resident of Scarsdale for over fifty years, died at his home Feb. 4, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Peggy Glover. Devoted father of James, Richard, Amy, Elaine and Kathryn. Beloved grandfather of Eric, Rachel, Lori and Peter. Funeral service
 LEAR-Phillip Ephraim. M.D. 92. Of Great Neck, LI on Thursday, February 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Dora Hershkovitz, cherished father of Marion Swaybill and Elizabeth Pinsky. Devoted grandfather of Stacey and Caroline Pinsky and father-in-law of Lawrence Pinsky; and the late Roger Swaybill.
 LUDDEN-John, 77. Of Oldsmar, Florida, died on Wednesday, February 4, 1998, in Clearwater, Florida. Born in Boswell, PA. he moved to Florida in 1989 from Georgia. He retired as Corp. Executive and President of the chemical division at American Cyanamid, Wayne, NJ, was an Army veteran of W.W.
 MASKET-David C. The entire staff of the Sylvia and Danny Kaye Playhouse at Hunter College mourns the loss of our dear friend David C. Masket, founding member of our Guild and husband of our beloved chairperson Joan G. Masket. We will miss his strength, his guidance, his warmth, his good hum
 SCHWARZ-Erwin, 93. Of Tucson, Arizona formerly of New York City and of Scarsdale, N.Y. Died in Gaithersburg, Maryland on February 1, 1998. He was married to the late Louise Lasker Schwarz for over 40 years and leaves his wife of 23 years Julia B. (Judy) Schwarz, three children, Arthur of Sc
 STEVENS-Roger L. We mourn with profound sadness the passing of Roger Stevens, a Director of The Metropolitan Opera Association for more than three decades. We recall his visionary leadership and passionate commitment to the arts as the first Chairman of The National Endowment for the Arts a
 STREIT-Jack. On February 3, 1998, after a long illness. President of Aron Streit, Inc., matzo bakers since the turn of the century. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Katz Streit. Devoted father of Myrna Heilbrun, Nettie Streit and the late Arlyne Yagoda. Loving grandfather of Aron, Michele, 
 STURGIS-Norman R. Of Fort Myers, FL. and Small Point, ME. died of cancer on February 4, 1998. He is survived by Linda Terry Sturgis, his wife of fifty-five years, two sons, Nathaniel R. Sturgis and John T. T. Sturgis, both of Missoula, MT, six grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Also
 WEST-Richard S. Of Wenham, Mass., and Holderness, N.H. Died on February 3, 1998, at his home accompanied by his wife and children. Memorial service, King's Chapel, Boston, on Monday, February 9th, at 11 A.M. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, or Kin
 Eduardo Francisco Cardinal Pironio, one of Latin America's highest ranking churchmen, who was twice considered to be a candidate for the papacy, died on Thursday morning at the Vatican, where he had lived for many years. He was 77 and suffered from bone cancer. Cardinal Pironio, bor
 Dr. Jacob Cohen, a professor emeritus of psychology at New York University who reinvented some of the ways researchers in the behavioral sciences gather and interpret their statistics, died on Jan. 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 74 and a resident of Greenwich Villag
 BATTELLE-Wayne. On February 5th, 1998, at age sixty-four. Artist and cabinet maker. Beloved husband and best friend of Monica, loving father of Burke and Nora. Also survived by his children, Tony Battelle and Leah Ferrarini. Graveside service at Green River Cemetery, Acabonac Road, Springs,
 BORGOS-Edwin F. Husband of Joy Borgos. Father of Michael Borgos and his wife Michelle, Seth Borgos and his wife Gwen, Jennifer Adams and her husband Scott, grandchildren Eric, Regan, Kris, Irina, Ariel, Sam and Dylan. Funeral Service Sunday 10AM, the BallardDurand Funeral Home, 2 Maple Aven
 MOONEY-Patrick Joseph Aloysius, 85 years old. Died on February 4, 1998 in Brooksville, FL. Immigrated from Roscommon, Ireland in November 1912. Retired from NYPD after thirty-seven years of distinguished service during which time he rose through the ranks to Detective Lt. Lt. Joseph Mooney 
 MORLEY-James T. ''Bud'' passed away on February 5, 1998 at the age of 84 in Boynton Beach, FL. Mr. Morley is survived by his wife of fifty-seven years, the former Margot Zimmer and his children Karen Brennan of Salt Lake City, Utah, Mary Pat Ware of Tucson, Arizona, William J. Morley of Lar
 ORNSTEIN-Reuben Selig. Died peacefully and lovingly cared for at home February 5, 1998. Despite overwhelming illness, he fought for life in order to ''take care'' of his beloved Sara, wife for sixtyeight of his 96 years, who died this past December. He passionately loved and was immensely p
 SCHWARZ-Erwin, 93. Of Tucson, Arizona formerly of New York City and of Scarsdale, N.Y. Died in Gaithersburg, Maryland on February 1, 1998. He was married to the late Louise Lasker Schwarz for over 40 years and leaves his wife of 23 years Julia B. (Judy) Schwarz, three children, Arthur of Sc
 Rear Adm. William Matthew Lukash, a naval internist and doctor to four sitting Presidents, from Lyndon B. Johnson to Jimmy Carter, died on Tuesday at Casa Palmera Care Center in Del Mar, Calif. He was 66 and lived in Solana Beach, Calif. The family did not make public the cause of d
 The Rev. John Garcia Gensel, who forged a remarkable relationship with New York's jazz musicians and their families as pastor and head of the ''jazz ministry'' at St. Peter's Lutheran Church in midtown, died Friday. He was 80. He was recuperating from a fall that occurred Dec. 19 an
 Norman J. Block, a bespoke businessman who helped define the epitome of masculine elegance as the very well-met and decidedly well-dressed founding proprietor of Dunhill Tailors in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 93. For a man who boasted that he never 
 BROWN-Dr. Milton. The faculty, students, staff and alumni of the Ph.D. program in Art History at the City University Graduate School mourn the passing of Emeritus Professor Milton Brown. He taught art history at Brooklyn College and at the Graduate School of the City University for over 35 
 FREGER-Richard J. Of Roswell, GA., passed away on January 6, 1998 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Linda. Devoted father of Jonathan of Venice Beach, CA., and Jennifer of Evanston, IL. He was a lingerie designer for Vanity Fair Intimates. Memorial service will be held at The Rivers
 FUNN-Arthur Q., Esq. Wednesday, February 4, 1998, in Albuquerque, NM. Survived by his beloved Sherry Fitzmaurice. Skier and member of the ski patrol, EMT, volleyball player, roller blader, member of 100 Black Men, good drinkin' buddy, bon vivant, raconteur and all around wonderful human bei
 FURMAN-Earle L., D.D.S. Of Chatham, NJ, on February 4, 1998. Beloved husband of Mary Hartung Furman. Devoted father of Marilyn Furman O'Donnell of NYC, and twin sons Richard Earle of Deerfield Beach, FL, and Robert John of West Orange, NJ. Proud grandfather of Julia, Holly and Christie. A f
 GALUTEN-Murry (Morris). On February 6, at the age of 85, in Weston, FL. Much beloved husband of 58 years of Iris. Beloved father of Jeffrey and his wife Patricia, Alan and his wife Melanie, and adored grandfather to Jill, David, Jason and Samuel Noah. He leaves behind his brother Robert and
 KATZ-Emanuel. On February 5. Father of Robert Katz and Marjorie Madonick. Grandfather of Brian and Stephanie Davis, Martin Katz, Nancy Piretti. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey and Alison Davis, Daniel Piretti. Family will be sitting Shiva Sunday to Tuesday, 222 Martling Ave., Tarrytown, NY. Co
 KIMELMAN-Samuel. 87 years old, died on February 6, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Kate. Loving father of Jack and Lorraine, Martin and Renee and Marsha (Drachman) and Chuck Bernzweig. Proud grandfather and great grandfather. He will be missed.       
 KOHLMANN-Paul A. On February 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Ursula. Loving father of Peter and Josephine; Susan and Michael Orbison. Adoring grandfather of Emma and Charlotte; Willie, Ben and Jake. He will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at Hebrew Tabernacle, 551 Fort Washingto
 KUSHINS-Leonard J. On February 5, 1998. He is survived by his mother Clara to whom he was the most devoted son. Loving brother of Allan and sister-in-law Harriet. Adored uncle of Adam and Eric. He will be remembered by all others whose lives he touched for his kindness, gentleness and sense
 MORLEY-James T. ''Bud'' passed away on February 5, 1998 at the age of 84 in Boynton Beach, FL. Mr. Morley is survived by his wife of fifty-seven years, the former Margot Zimmer and his children Karen Brennan of Salt Lake City, Utah, Mary Pat Ware of Tucson, Arizona, William J. Morley of Lar
 MRAKOVCIC-Frank. On February 5, 1998. Too innocent for this world. Will always be remembered for his sweet disposition, his great sense of humor and his wonderful way with children. He was a computer specialist at LIPCO Partners. Beloved son of Ivan and the late Ljubica. Loving brother of M
 SCHWARTZ-Solomon, M.D. On January 15, 1998. Husband of Donna, father of Nancy and Lewis. Mourned by brothers, Morris, Robert and step-sister, Shirley. His tireless teaching, research, innovation, practice and leadership in diagnostic radiology at the Brooklyn Jewish Hospital, New York Unive
 SHAPIRO-Richard S., 55, on February 6, of New City, NY. National Sales Manager for Metro Fabrics. Survived by his wife, Barbara; his children, Ira and Nadia Shapiro and Lori Shapiro; his sister, Norma Feldman; and his adored grandson, Noah. Services 12 noon, Monday, at Robert Schoem's Menor
 SHOLLAR-Edward R., Ph.D. On February 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Anne. Loving father of Michael and Thomas. Devoted son of Sylvia. Also survived by his brother Harvey of Pittsburgh, PA. He was a psychologist in private practice in NYC for many years and was affiliated with Roosevelt Medical
 Norman J. Levy, a Republican State Senator from Nassau County who sponsored the nation's first mandatory seat belt law and championed the metropolitan region's mass transit system, died last night at his home in Albany. He was 67. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, Jame
 Allan Grant, a California rancher who started as a sharecropper and came to speak for millions of farm families as president of the American Farm Bureau Federation in the 1970's, died on Jan. 27 at Kaweah Delta Hospital in Visalia, Calif., where he made his home. He was 91. Mr. Gran
 Ara Oztemel, who built a fortune by cultivating trade between the United States and the Soviet Union during the cold war, died on Feb. 2 at a Miami hospital. He was 71 and had retired to Key Biscayne, Fla., from his home in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Oztemel had been in failing health for
 Carl Wilson, who helped form the Beach Boys as a teen-ager and played lead guitar and sang with the group for more than three decades, died on Saturday in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 51. The cause was complications from lung cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr.
 Enoch Powell, an eloquent, right-wing British political figure known for an address he gave in 1968 opposing immigration from former British colonies, died yesterday in King Edward VII Hospital in London. He was 85 and lived in London. His wife, Pamela, said he had Parkinson's disea
 Friedrich Kessler, a former professor at the Yale Law School who was an authority on contracts, comparative law and jurisprudence, died on Jan. 21 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 96 and lived in Berkeley. Born in Hechingen, Germany, he received his law degree from 
 Gerald Pencer, the chairman and chief executive of the Cott Corporation, the soft-drink maker based in Toronto, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. He was 52. The cause of death was brain cancer, a company spokeswoman said. In his eight-year tenure, Mr. Pence
 The French baritone Michel Roux, who sang frequently with the Paris Opera and at the Glyndebourne festival in England, died on Wednesday in Paris. He was 73. Mr. Roux, born in Angouleme, France, studied in Bordeaux and Paris before making his operatic debut in 1948 in a production o
 DANA-Richard. On February 7, 1998. He wrote and directed radio programs for many years before moving to Young & Rubicam Advertising Agency as a Creative Supervisor. In subsequent years he directed productions and taught communications and acting at Manchester Community College in CT. He the
 KATZ-George. On February 7, 1998. Deeply mourned by Sylvia Slatin Katz, loving and beloved wife. Dearest uncle, cherished cousin and loyal friend. Services Tuesday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. KATZ - George. Shalom - Fannie Zornberg Group of Hadass
 KLEINBERG-Dr. William Age 87. Professor at Princeton University and founder of Princeton Laboratories, on Saturday, February 7, 1998, in Princeton, NJ. Survived by his wife Ruth Schechter Kleinberg; daughters Barbara Conviser, Jamie Kleinberg Kamph and Wendy Barker, and also survived by fiv
 KOCH-Marilyn. Age 79, of West Hartford, died February 6, 1998. Widow of Herman, beloved mother of Dr. Lawrence W. Koch and his wife Deanna of Hartford, CT, Dr. Ronald B. Koch and his wife Paulette of Palm Beach, FL; five grandchildren; two great-grandchildren. Funeral services were held Sun
 KOHLMANN-Paul A. On February 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Ursula. Loving father of Peter and Josephine; Susan and Michael Orbison. Adoring grandfather of Emma and Charlotte; Willie, Ben and Jake. He will be profoundly missed. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to the charity of 
 LEVY-Norman J. With profound sadness, the Officers, Trustees and Staff of the Long Island Chapter of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America mourn the tragic loss of Senator Norman J. Levy. We honor with gratitude his role in the founding of the Long Island Chapter, his visionary leader
 MARKS-Robert M. Age 87, of Carlsbad, CA, previously of Larchmont, NY. He is survived by his wife Frances (nee Schneider) and son Frederick. Former Advertising Director with Conde Nast Publications of New York City.       
 MELTZER-George. On February 7, 1998. Adored and adoring husband of Judith (nee Stettin). Precious father of Donald Meltzer and Mindy (nee Meltzer) Ferrentino. Loved father-in-law of Debra (nee Phillips) Meltzer and Paul Wolfle. The best Pop George to Leslie, Phillip and Amanda Meltzer. A so
 MORLEY-James T. ''Bud'' passed away on February 5, 1998 at the age of 84 in Boynton Beach, FL. Mr. Morley is survived by his wife of fifty-seven years, the former Margot Zimmer and his children Karen Brennan of Salt Lake City, Utah, Mary Pat Ware of Tucson, Arizona, William J. Morley of Lar
 SCHLITTEN-Lawrence A., Lt. Col., USA. Entered into rest February 6, 1998. Late of Canton, MA, formerly of Belle Harbor, NY. Beloved husband of Renee (Stettner). Devoted father of Mark Justin and Dr. Elliot W. Justin. Adored grandfather of Grant, Eric and Eleanor. He leaves us in his 82nd ye
 SHOLLAR-Edward R., Ph.D. On February 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Anne. Loving father of Michael and Thomas. Devoted son of Sylvia. Also survived by his brother Harvey of Pittsburgh, PA. He was a psychologist in private practice in NYC for many years and was affiliated with Roosevelt Medical
 SUTHERLAND - Ashby McCulloch. Of San Antonio, TX, and formerly of New York. Died Thursday, February 5, 1998, in San Antonio after a year long struggle with leukemia. He was 76. Born in San Antonio on March 16, 1921, Sutherland was a graduate of the University of the South and the Harvard Bu
 THOMAS-Carroll B. Age 67, of Wyckoff, died Saturday, February 7, 1998, at Good Samaritan Hospital, Suffern, NY. Born in Baltimore, MD, he lived in Lutherville, MD, and Plaverford Township, PA, before moving to Wyckoff, NJ, 24 years ago. He was an executive for Alfa Laval, Inc., Ft. Lee, NJ,
 WECKER-Barry. Died peacefully on February 7, 1998, after a long battle with lung cancer. Beloved husband of Debbie. Loving father of Jason. Adoring uncle to Cody and Tyler. Loving and loved brother to Roni and Howard. Legions of friends and family mourn him and his premature death. He will 
 WEISBERG-Jakob. Born March 20, 1899, died Februay 7, 1998, leaving behind Evelyne, Julie, Michele, Babette, Jaime, Rachel, Brad, Ross, John. We loved him. Funeral, Riverside Chapel, Mount Vernon, Monday, 9:30 AM, February 9.       
 COOLEY-George W. In memory and celebration of the life of George W. Cooley. Born Buffalo NY 2/9/26. Died NYC 3/8/97. On his first birthday in Paradise.       
 Philip Kramer, a former president and chief executive of the Amerada Hess Corporation, died on Jan. 30 at Del Ray Medical Center in Del Ray Beach, Fla. He was 77. Mr. Kramer joined Hess, an oil refining company, in 1969 as an executive vice president. He was named president three ye
 Robert Hughes Brisbane, a retired social scientist and historian at Morehouse College who wrote about the civil rights movement in its early years, died on Jan. 23 at the Georgia Baptist Health Center in Atlanta. He was 84. Dr. Brisbane, who lived in Atlanta, spent much of his life 
 Sam Marcy, an unabashed, unreconstructed and uncommonly prolific Marxist-Leninist, died on Feb. 1 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 and as the founder of the Workers World Party had never wavered in his devotion to what he saw as the pure, shining core of an authentic politi
 Norman J. Levy, a Republican State Senator from Nassau County who sponsored the nation's first mandatory seat belt law and championed the New York metropolitan region's mass transit system, died on Saturday night at his home in Albany. He was 67 and also lived in Merrick, N.Y. The c
 Halldor Laxness, Iceland's foremost literary figure and winner of the 1955 Nobel Prize in Literature for his bardic epics and sharp social commentary, died on Sunday in a nursing home northwest of Reykjavik, The Associated Press reported. He was 95. In his more than 60 novels, plays
 BERGSON-Arnold M. Age 80, of New York, N.Y. died February 9, 1998 in Palm Beach, FL. Survivors include his wife, Jeanne H. of New York, N.Y.; two daughters, Jane Hersh of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL and Barbara McGraw of Riverside, CT; brother, Martin Bergson of Providence, R.I. and three grandch
 BERMAN-Paul Arthur . Passed away on February 6th, 1998, age 62, is now free from the bondage of Lou Gehrig's Disease (ALS). He is survived by his wife, son, two daughters, mother, brother, two grandsons, and son-in-law. He was well known in New Jersey circles, headed Berman Realties and dev
 BLOCK-Norman. The Board of Directors, officers, and employees of LIVE Entertainment records with sorrow the passing of the father of our good friend and colleague, Bill Block. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Bill and all in his family who grieve his father's passing as do we. Mark Cu
 BROWN-Raymond H. Dearly beloved husband of Gerry. Devoted father of Jaclyn and Peter Sieben and Eric Brown. Adoring grandfather of Rachel, Hannah and Elissa. He will be greatly missed. Service today, 12 noon at Emanu-el Jewish Center, 261 East Lincoln Avenue, Mt Vernon, NY. BROWN-Ra
 DUNLAP-Herbert Creighton, age 84, on February 7th, 1998. The Board and Staff of St. Paul's House and the JJD Hall Memorial Fund, NYC, mourn the loss of their Founder and colleague who served 53 years. He is survived by his cousin, Stuart, and nephew, Alexander Scott Dunlap. Viewing 2pm-7:30
 EISENBERG-Elias. On February 8, 1998. Devoted husband of 58 years, survived by his wife Charlotte. Loving father to Max and Norman, cherished brother to Israel, Leon and Jenny and adored grandfather of Jamie Lavea, Daniel and Stevie. He leaves us in his 88th year with a legacy of love, admi
 FINKELSTEIN-Irwin. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System sadly mourn the untimely passing of Irwin Finkelstein, beloved brother of our esteemed fellow Board Member, Dr. Paul Finkelstein. May his legacy act as a source of inspiration to all those whom he touched. We
 GENSEL-Rev. John Garcia. Shepherds and music are companions, consecrated in time ever since that transcending moment of the Child in Swaddling Clothes under the Star. Little wonder then, that Pastor John Gensel would lead us around the Lord's table in melodies of prayer. ''The music of the 
 GOLDSMITH-James A., Jr. Died suddenly at home in Hillsborough, Ca. on Febuary 7, 1998. He was 91 years old. He is survived by his wife, Irene T. Goldsmith, his children, MaryAnne Schwalbe of N.Y.C., James A. Goldsmith III of Briarcliff Manor N.Y., Jeanne Taylor and Marc Ducharme of Atlanta,
 KATZ-George. On February 7, 1998. Deeply mourned by Sylvia Slatin Katz, loving and beloved wife. Dearest uncle, cherished cousin and loyal friend. Services Tuesday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. KATZ - George. Shalom - Fannie Zornberg Group of Hadass
 KOHLMANN-Paul A. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Ursula Kohlmann on the loss of her beloved husband, Paul. As Founders of the Hospital, the Kohlmanns played a vital role in providing for the health care needs of the people of Jerusalem and Israel. May the family have warm and lo
 KOHNOP-Benjamin L., M.D. On February 9. Age 87. Retired physician at NYU Medical Center. Loving husband of Pearl, brother of Emma Shapiro and the late Sam, beloved uncle, grand-uncle and great grand-uncle. He will be greatly missed by those nieces and nephews who were the joy of his life. S
 KUFELD-William M. Our entire family mourns the loss of our brother-in-law and uncle. He was loved and will be sorely missed. The Chesir Family KUFELD-William M. AMIT is deeply grieved at the untimely loss of the beloved husband of our departed Honorary National President, Frieda Kuf
 LEVINE-Howard, on February 7, formerly of Staten Island. Husband of the late Cynthia (Segal). Survived by his son, Dr. Lawrence Levine and two grandchildren. Services and Interment will be held on Thursday, February 12 in Andover, MA. Expressions of sympathy to UNICEF.       
 LEVINTHAL-Leon. The Board, Staff and Members of the Rosenthal YM-YWHA note with sadness the passing of Leon Levinthal, beloved father of our Assist. Exec. Dir., Michele Vernon. We extend our hearfelt condolences to the Levinthal/Vernon families. May he be for a blessing. Marsha Newman, Pres
 LEVY-Senator Norman J. The partners, attorneys and staff at Certilman Balin Adler & Hyman, LLP., mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and Counsel, Norman Levy. We are grateful for the ever-present inspiration and wisdom he provided during his more than twenty years of service with 
 MORRIS-Grinnell. Died February 5, in Naples, Florida. Survived by his wife Cornelia and sons Grinnell Jr, Stephen, Frederic and Daniel. Also by his brother John. A memorial service will be held on Sunday March 8, at St. Johns Church, Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. at 1pm. In lieu of flowers contr
 NORTON-Thomas E. 63. Art consultant, author and former senior vice president and director of Sotheby's New York died suddenly on Saturday at the DartmouthHitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, New Hampshire. A resident of Kennebunkport for the past four years, Mr. Norton was born in Portland,
 RUSSELL-Dr. Maurice V. The Faculty, Advisory Council, Alumni Association, students, and staff of the Columbia University School of Social Work (CUSSW) record, with profound sorrow, the tragic and untimely death of Dr. Maurice V. Russell on February 9, 1998. A Trustee Emeritus of Columbia Un
 CASTELLANOS-Don F. February 10, 1997. A companion and friend, he is now at rest. May his memory be for a blessing. Dan Wollenziehn       
 The Rev. Thomas Kilgore Jr., a leading figure in the struggle for racial justice and one of the few men to lead two major national Baptist organizations, died Wednesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles. Mr. Kilgore was pastor emeritus of Second Baptist Church, the oldest black Bapt
 William Burling Cocks, the nation's leading trainer of steeplechase horses five times between 1948 and 1986 and a member of thoroughbred racing's Hall of Fame, died on Saturday at his home in Unionville, Pa. He was 82. Mr. Cocks, known as Burley, was born in Old Westbury, N.Y., the 
 Jerome L. Murray, an inventor who touched people's lives by conceiving such items as the electric carving knife, the audible pressure cooker, the airplane boarding ramp and a pump that made open-heart surgery possible, died on Jan. 7. He was 85 years old. Mr. Murray, who was born in
 Maurice Schumann, a French aide to General de Gaulle in London during World War II who made moving broadcasts to Nazi-dominated France and later became a Foreign Minister, died yesterday at the Invalides military hospital in Paris. He was 86. Mr. Schumann was also leader of a politi
 BERGSON-Arnold. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Arnold N. Bergson, a dedicated member of our Board and our dear friend. His years of commitment to the 92nd Street Y are deeply appreciated. Our hearts and prayers go out to Arnold's wife Jeanne, his 
 DeSIMONE-Joseph F. Retired Professor of Romance Languages, Brooklyn College. Preceded by his beloved wife Anne, on January 18, 1998, and by his son Joseph Jr. in 1991. Survived by daughter Paula Watson, son Philip, grandchildren Lucia and Liza Watson, Joseph and Jennifer DeSimone. Visitatio
 GENSEL-Rev. John Garcia. Shepherds and music are companions, consecrated in time ever since that transcending moment of the Child in swaddling clothes under the Star. Little wonder then, that Pastor John Gensel would lead us around the Lord's table in melodies of prayer. ''The music of the 
 GOLDBERG-Howard L. (H P R), 62, of Short Hills, N.J. Beloved husband of Iris (nee Gould). Devoted father of Steven, Richard, Gary and Ross Goldberg. Cherished son of Ettie (nee Kate Goldberg). Adored father-in-law of Colette Goldberg and Anna Goldberg. Dear brother of Mel and Jill Goldberg.
 KUFELD-William M. February 9, 1998. It is with great sorrow that we mark the passing of our beloved senior partner, Bill Kufeld. A consummate lawyer, he was our colleague, advisor and comradein-arms for almost fifty years. His friendship, wisdom and guidance will be dearly missed by all of 
 LEVY-Senator Norman. The Board of Directors, Board of Education, Administration, faculty and students of the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County are saddened at the passing of Senator Norman Levy. A leader in the NYS Senate, he was a champion of education, children's needs and programs for the 
 LOWELL-Daniel J. Beloved husband of Sherry for over 50 years, devoted father of Teri and Steve Hardman and Candy and Don Childress, loving grandfather of Katherine Miriam and Lauren Elisabeth, caring and connected brother of Stanley H. and Lee Lowell, died on February 9 in Houston, Texas, h
 MORRIS-Grinnell. Died February 5, in Naples, Florida. Survived by his wife Cornelia and sons Grinnell Jr, Stephen, Frederic and Daniel. Also by his brother John. A memorial service will be held on Sunday March 8, at St. Johns Church, Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. at 1pm. In lieu of flowers contr
 PACIUC-Beno, Dr. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our member, Dr. Beno Paciuc. We extend profound condolences to his wife Sophie and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President  
 PALMER-Harold C. Age 79, of NYC and Indian Wells, CA., on February 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Nancie (nee Brown). He was born in Detroit on August 1, 1918 and was graduated from Harvard College in 1940. After brief service in the Navy during the war, he became a salesman for Merck & Co. He
 RUSSELL-Maurice V. The Officers and Directors of the Marian Kenworthy-Sarah Swift Foundation note with deep sorrow the untimely death of our esteemed President. His wisdom, compassion and his dedication to improving the lives of children and families continued the traditions and interests o
 SCHNEIDER-Henry. Beloved husband of Jacqueline. Devoted father of Michael and the late Barbara Bruckner. Loving grandfather of Robert and James Bruckner, Maxwell and Ethan. Service Thursday, 11:30 AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St. and Madison Avenue. For further information call Plaza M
 TERLIZZI-Alfred. With profound sadness, The Morchand Center for Clinical Competence of The Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourns the loss of a dear friend, Alfred Terlizzi. Alfred was a compassionate man with a heart as big and warm as his sense of humor. He will be greatly missed. Our sinc
 WEISBERG-Jakob. Died on February 7, 1998, also leaving behind Betsy and Martin. We loved him and will miss him.       
 WEISSMAN-George. Of Whitestone, NY. Died February 8, 1998 at age 82 in Del Ray Beach, Florida. As a young man, living in Brownsville during the Second World War, entered the Marines, fought in the Pacific, saw action on Okinawa, and did post-war service in China. A hard worker, and always a
 WYMAN-Thomas M. February 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Llana. Son of Olga Resseguier and the late Charles A. Wyman. Brother of John H. Wyman and Virginia A. Meyer. Uncle of Christina and Charles Wyman, and Edward and Katharine Meyer. Interment private. Memorial Service is to be announced. In 
 De SOSA-Count Maxim. 2/8/61-5/ 26/92. ''...he was Hyacinth when Apollo loved him.'' O.W. Eric       
 Julian L. Simon, an economist and professor who spent much of his professional life taking on scientists, demographers and other academics who argued that mankind was stretching the resources of the earth to the breaking point, died at his home in Chevy Chase, Md., on Sunday. The ca
 Lawrence Sanders, whose first novel, the 1970 suspense thriller ''The Anderson Tapes,'' catapulted him into the front ranks of durable and best-selling genre authors, died on Saturday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 78. Putnam is planning to publish his 38th novel, ''Guilt
 ANCONA-Victor. On February 10, peacefully, at New York Hospital, in his 86th year. Husband of Ruth Ancona, father of Barry Ancona and Ronnie Ancona, father-in-law of Shannon Carr and Steven Cole, grandfather of Polly Ancona Carr and David Ancona-Cole. Artist and student of the arts. Graduat
 BABKIE-Joseph M. Age 82, of Westport, CT., and Ocean Ridge, FL died Saturday, February 7, 1998 at his Florida home. A native of Poland, Mr. Babkie graduated the Polish Maritime Academy and served with distinction in World War II, taking part in various Allied campaigns in the Mediterranean.
 BERGSON-Arnold. The Officers and employees of Acordia Northeast deeply mourn the passing of Arnold Bergson, Chairman Emeritus. Arnold was the founding father of the predecessor companies in N.Y. and a great leader. He was a man amongst men and will be truly missed. Our sympathies are extend
 BROWN-Milton W. The faculty, staff and students of The Graduate School and University Center, CUNY, are deeply saddened by the passing of Professor Emeritus Milton W. Brown, co-founder of our Doctoral Program in Art History and its first executive officer. Dr. Brown was a devoted teacher to
 HASS-Joseph. The partners of Rosen & Reade deeply mourn the passing of Joseph Hass, the father of our senior partner Erwin Hass. We express our sincere condolences to Erwin, his wife Maria, his children and all of the family.       
 KOTUK-Richard. Documentary film maker, on February 10, 1998. He is survived by his parents John and Victoria Kotuk, his sister Maggie, his niece Amanda and nephew Nick.       
 LOWELL-Daniel J.'42. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Daniel J. Lowell '42. On behalf of the College community I wish to extend my condolences to his brother and City College Fund Board Member, Stanley H. Lowell '39, and to his family. Yolanda T. Moses, President The City 
 LURIE-Harold. Professor Emeritus, Caltech University. Aeronautical/nuclear engineer, lawyer, pilot, adventurer, mentor. A gentle man. Harold passed away peacefully in his 78th year. Beloved father of Diana Lurie of Missoula, Montana and David Lurie of Boston, Massachusetts. Cherished compan
 MATNEY-Arthur, Sr. February 10, 1998. A native of New York, passed away after a long illness. He was the Founder and CEO of Arthur Matney Co., Inc., which for over fifty years has sold a full line of cosmetics worldwide under the names Artmatic, Tropez, Aristocrat and Emerge. His corporatio
 MORRIS-Grinnell. Died February 5, in Naples, Florida. Survived by his wife Cornelia and sons Grinnell Jr, Stephen, Frederic and Daniel. Also by his brother John. A memorial service will be held on Sunday March 8, at St. Johns Church, Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. at 1pm. In lieu of flowers contr
 MUNCH-Peter Howard. Of Ft. Lee formerly of Bronx, NY on Feb. 10, 1998. Beloved husband for 69 years of Minerva (nee Vogel). Loving father of Nancy Bilheimer. Mr. Munch founded the Trim Manufacturing Company, Bronx, New York in 1945, which eventually became Division Square D Corporation. He 
 NASH-James Carl. Husband of Juliana Nash (nee van der Vloed). Father of Cornelius C. and Juliana E. Nash. Father-in-law of Martha Brophy. Brother of Joy Groover. Uncle of eight. Interment private. Memorial service at The Interchurch Center Chapel, 475 Riverside Drive, at 120 Street, 3PM, Fr
 PANZARELLA-Dr. Frank P. On Feb. 10, 1998. Devoted father of Frank Jr., Nancy and the late Paul. Grandfather of Christopher and Allison. Son of the late Amalia and Angelo. Father-in-law to Meredith. Beloved brother of Angela, Eva, Theresa, John, Joseph and the late Edward, Stanley and Arthur
 PLIMACK-Alfred. His sisters, his children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren will all miss him dearly. Alfred's lifetime of art is a cherished legacy to his family and remains a treasure for all.       
 ROLLENHAGEN-Charles Albert. Age 87 a long time resident of Ridgewood died Tuesday, February 10, 1998. Born in Hoboken, Mr. Rollenhagen was a 1931 graduate with his B.A. in Commercial Science from NY University, with majors in accounting and banking. His first employment was as a bank examin
 RUSSELL-Dr. Maurice V. The HIV Clinical Service of the William Alanson White Institute mourns the tragic death of a great humanitarian and leader in the field of social work. Dr. Russell's support, advice, and wisdom were crucial to our study of the psychological aspects of the AIDS epidemi
 SCHNEIDER-Henry. Beloved husband of Jacqueline. Devoted father of Michael and the late Barbara Bruckner. Loving grandfather of Robert and James Bruckner, Maxwell and Ethan. Service Thursday, 11:30 AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St. and Madison Avenue. For further information call Plaza M
 TERLIZZI-Alfred. It is with sincere sadness that the Board of Directors and the staff of Dance Educators of America notes the untimely passing of a friend and supporter of the dance world. This creates a void and shoes that will be hard to fill. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family.
 WALL-Albert S. Age 78. Retired editor, died Wednesday, February 4, 1998 at his home in Dobbs Ferry, New York. Survivors include his wife, Mary Sprague Wall of Dobbs Ferry, a son, Anthony Wall of Jackson Hole, Wyoming, and a daughter, Katharine Wall of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Memorial dona
 WYMAN-Thomas M. February 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Llana. Son of Olga Resseguier and the late Charles A. Wyman. Brother of John H. Wyman and Virginia A. Meyer. Uncle of Christina and Charles Wyman, and Edward and Katharine Meyer. Interment private. Memorial Service is to be announced. In 
 FELIX-David E. Passed away February 10. A wonderful husband, father, grandfather and greatgrandfather. He is survived by his wife of 65 years Mary Lerner Felix; his son Alan; daughter Madalyn Felix Friedberg; son-in-law Stephen Friedberg; three grandchildren and two great-grandsons       
 FRANKEL-Kenneth. Lynne Meadow, Barry Grove and everyone at The Manhattan Theater Club are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and colleague Kenneth Frankel. Ken's artistry graced our stage and he enriched and warmed our lives with his friendship. We miss him dearly. To his wife, our 
 GENSEL-The Rev. John Garcia. The pastors, people and staff of Saint Peter's Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York, mourn the death of our Pastor Emeritus John Garcia Gensel. We give thanks to God for his life, his faith and his gifts as our Pastor and as the ''Shepherd of the Nig
 GORDON-Harvey. With great sadness, the Board of Directors, Administration and Residents of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Harvey Gordon, beloved husband of Rosalyn, a founding member of our Board of Directors. Rosalyn and Harvey were among those earliest donors whos
 GREENE-Bernard Victor. Age 72, of Thompson, PA, formerly of 239 Nichols Avenue, East New York in Brooklyn, died on Monday. From 1954 to 1982, he had his own dental practice in Audubon, PA. He resided in Brooklyn, NY from 1942 to 1950, and in Audubon, PA from 1950 to 1979, and lived for the 
 HASS-Joseph. The partners of Rosen & Reade deeply mourn the passing of Joseph Hass, the father of our senior partner Erwin Hass. We express our sincere condolences to Erwin, his wife Maria, his children and all of the family.       
 HILLS-Robert C. Died peacefully on January 26, 1998 at the age of 89 at his home in Metairie, Louisiana. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Dorothy Fleury Hills and his children, Anne Hills of Metairie, John F. Hills of New Orleans, LA, Thomas C. Hills of Secaucus, NJ and a grandson, R
 JOOS-Rev. Justin, O.F.M., C.ap. The Capuchin Friars and people of St. John the Baptist R.C. Church mourn the passing of Fr. Justin on February 11, 1998 at the age of 85. May God welcome his faithful priest and son of St. Francis into paradise. Father is waked Friday, February 13, 1-5:30, 7-
 KUFELD-William. We mourn the passing of our beloved brother and uncle who was always there for us. We shall miss him greatly Michaelson and Krause families       
 MACMILLAN - Charles James Barr of Tallahassee, Fl. age 62. February 11, 1998 of Cancer. Survived by his wife Joan. Daughter Ann, son and daughter-in-law Tyler and Jill. Granddaughter Lindsay. He taught Philosophy of Education at Florida State University, specializing in the study of Ludwig 
 MILLER-Theodore R. Pioneering cancer surgeon and educator, died peacefully at home at the age of 90 on February 4, 1998. He is survived by his wife of 64 years, Helen R. Miller; his sister, Ruth E. Miller and 3 brothers, Robert I., Ralph A. and Dr. William H. Born and raised in Philadelphia
 MORAN-Matthew V. On February 11, 1998. Of Island Park, NY (formerly of Valley Stream and Chatham, NJ). Beloved husband of the late Barbara. Loving father of Catherine Clark and Nancy. Devoted grandfather of Rachel Barbara. Also survived by his sister and brother-in-law, Doris and Daniel O'B
 MORRIS-Grinnell. Died February 5, in Naples, Florida. Survived by his wife Cornelia and sons Grinnell Jr, Stephen, Frederic and Daniel. Also by his brother John. A memorial service will be held on Sunday March 8, at St. Johns Church, Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. at 1pm. In lieu of flowers contr
 PANZARELLA-Dr. Frank P. On Feb. 10, 1998. Devoted father of Frank Jr., Nancy and the late Paul. Grandfather of Christopher and Allison. Son of the late Amalia and Angelo. Father-in-law to Meredith. Beloved brother of Angela, Eva, Theresa, John, Joseph and the late Edward, Stanley and Arthur
 RUBENSTEIN-Dorothy. The Partners of Ellenbogen, Rubenstein, Eisdorfer and co. LLP mourn the passing of Dorothy Rubenstein, the mother of our partner Ira Rubenstein. We express our sincere condolences to Ira, his father Ben and all of the family. Ellenbogen, Rubenstein, Eisdorfer and co., LL
 RUBIN-Ira Lloyd, M.D. It is with great sadness that the death of Ira Lloyd Rubin, M.D. on February 12 is announced. He was the beloved husband of Beatrice Bober Rubin for more than 57 years and the devoted son of the late Dr. Meyer and the late Gertrude Rubin. He is survived by his wife and
 STERNBERG-Leo. Artist. On February 10, 1998 in Great Barrington, MA. Husband of Mary, father of Amy Sternberg Mann and Daniel Sternberg, father-in-law of Jeffrey Mann and Deborah Cooper Sternberg, grandfather of Jessica Mann, Rachel and Seth Rosan and Julia and Samuel Sternberg. Services at
 THAU-Dr. M. David. Of White Plains. Formerly of Westbury. Passed away on 2/12/98. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Adored father of Paul, Sheryl, Sue and Arthur. Cherished grandfather of Andrew, Dana, Seth and Matthew. Past President of Old Westbury Hebrew Congregation and Queens and New York Cou
 TRISTMAN-Richard G. Scholar, author and revered professor of literature, died February 12, 1998. He exerted a deep and lasting influence on generations of students, colleagues and friends. He was a gentleman and a visionary. He is mourned by his mother, Jeanette of Miami Beach, his two sons
 WYMAN-Thomas M. February 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Llana. Son of Olga Resseguier and the late Charles A. Wyman. Brother of John H. Wyman and Virginia A. Meyer. Uncle of Christina and Charles Wyman, and Edward and Katharine Meyer. Interment private. Memorial Service is to be announced. In 
 Patrick Clark, a chef who helped lead a generation of Americans to embrace a new style of casual but sophisticated French cooking in the early 1980's, and then helped lead them back to the ingredients and preparations of their own country, died late Wednesday night at Princeton Medical Cent
 Thomas G. Dunn, the blunt, often irascible former Mayor of Elizabeth, N.J., who was a major figure in the city's politics over four decades, died Wednesday at his home in the city.  He was 76 years old. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his son, Thomas G. Dunn Jr.        
 Lionel Aldridge, a defensive star on the great Green Bay Packers teams of the 1960's whose post-playing years were marked by mental illness, was found dead by a daughter in his suburban Milwaukee apartment Thursday night. He was 56. The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's office, wh
 BELL-Morton (Moe). Age 84. Of Highland Beach, Fla. Formerly of Fort Lee, N.J. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Stephen (Myrna) and Jeffrey (Joan). Adored grandfather of Louis, Stephanie, Mark and Joshua. Cherished great-grandfather of Samantha Bell. Devoted brother of David (Lorrai
 CLARK-Patrick. The Board, Staff, Teachers and Students of the Careers Through Culinary Arts Program (C-CAP) mourn the passing of Chef Patrick Clark, advisor, mentor, supporter and inspiration to us all. We will miss him greatly and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, children and 
 GLICKSTEIN-Hyman N. On February 12th. Pre-deceased by his beloved wife Ruth (Lurie). Devoted father of Richard and Jonathan and the late Barbara. Dear fatherin-law of Carolyn and Eileen. Loving grandfather of Debra Ellen, Michael, Ethan and Samuel. Services will be held Sunday, 11 AM, at Ri
 HANDLER-Sam. Temple Beth Torah in Westbury, L.I. mourns the loss of an esteemed member of our congregation, Sam Handler on Feburary 12, 1998. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Shirley and to his children Marc, Glenn and Sherry, Hope and Mark. May God comfort all the mourners of 
 LAUTERSTEIN-Lincoln W. On February 12, 1998, on his 81st birthday in Rockport, MA. Beloved husband of Ingeborg and father of Adrian. Also survived by his brother Henry and nephews and nieces. A Summa Cum Laude graduate of Princeton and graduate of Harvard Law School. Attorney for the Metrop
 MADEN-Phil, on February 9, 1998, at home in Jamestown, R.I. A native of New York City, he is survived by his wife, Sue Daggett Maden, and son, Marc Madden.       
 MOSES-Abraham. Left us in his 97th year, February 11, 1998. Beloved father of Julian and Maurice, dear father-in-law of Mildred and Lila, brother of Billie Ditkoff, loving grandfather of Jeffrey, Andrew, Lisa and Robert, great grand-dad of Ariel, Jarret, Chandler, Harrison and Julia. Servic
 RUBIN-Dr. Ira Lloyd. The Department of Medicine and the Cardiovascular Division of Montefiore Medical Center and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the death of Dr. Ira L. Rubin, Emeritus Professor of Clinical Medicine. Dr. Rubin served Montefiore for almost 60 years and was a me
 SHERMAN-Lee on February 12, 1998, in his 84th year. Well known dancer and choreographer. Humphrey-Weidman Company, Broadway and Europe. Husband of Sally, father of Margo and brother of Helen Tabb and Joe Sherman. Funeral Service Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 12 Noon Sunday, February 15. 15
 THOMASHOWER-Marvin. Age 73, of Manhasset, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, on February 11, 1998, in Palm Beach, after a long illness bravely borne. Beloved husband of Rosalie Caplan Thomashower for 48 years, loving father of Laurie and her husband David Ridell, devoted grandfather of Lindsey and Mar
 Robert Mackintosh, who designed costumes for several dozen Broadway and Off Broadway shows and evening dresses for some of the world's most glamorous women, including Marilyn Monroe and Lena Horne, died yesterday morning in his Manhattan apartment. He had been suffering from emphyse
 Alex J. Kramer, a writer of popular songs whose best-known compositions included ''Candy,'' ''Far Away Places'' and ''It All Comes Back to Me Now,'' died on Tuesday in Fairfield, Conn. He was 94 and lived in Westport, Conn. Those hits, and most of his 125 other songs, were written w
 Hans Wallach, an experimental psychologist at Swarthmore College who helped explain human vision and hearing, died on Feb. 5 at the Manchester House nursing home in Media, Pa. A longtime Swarthmore resident, he was 93. Dr. Wallach, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, did b
 Henry Schneider, a New York tax lawyer and president of a foundation benefiting New York hospitals, cultural institutions, parks and Jewish charities, died on Monday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 87. Mr. Schneider presided over the philanthropic work of the Henry and Lucy Moses
 Ibrahim Farrah, a performer of Middle Eastern dance and publisher of Arabesque, a magazine about ethnic dance, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58. The apparent cause was a heart attack, according to Phyllis Saretta, Mr. Farrah's longtime companion. Mr. Farrah
 Milton W. Brown, a scholar and teacher who was a pioneer in 20th-century American art history, died at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach on Feb. 6. He was 86. Mr. Brown's best-known book, ''American Painting From the Armory Show to the Depression'' (1955), was also his doctoral di
 CLARK-Robert John Balfour. Age 60, of Gainesville, AL., formerly of New York, NY and Locust Valley, NY, died February 3, 1998. He was the son of the late Marjorie Ward Clark and the late John Balfour Clark. He is survived by his sister, Patricia Wing Whitaker of Bradenton, FL., and his two 
 DABNEY-Clarence R. We, the Board of Trustees, and the entire Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center family mourn the passing of Clarence R. Dabney. Mr. Dabney's strong leadership as a Board Member of Bronx Lebanon; as Chairman of the Board of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Health Center; and as Ch
 ELKINS-Michael J. At age 35 in a diving accident in W. Palm Beach, FL on January 12, 1998. Beloved husband of Futaba. Cherished son of Barbara and Arthur Elkins. Devoted brother of Steven Elkins. A graduate of the Northfield Mt. Hermon School, Hamilton College and Cornell University, at the
 EWEN-Theodore Carnegie. Of Scarscale, N.Y. on February 11, 1998. Husband of Elisabeth Graham Ewen. Father of Stephanie Hopkins Ewen and Deborah Graham Ewen. Brother of Marjorie Ewen Menconi, William H. and Robert H. Ewen. Grandfather of Benjamin Graham Ewen Whipple. Friends may call at the 
 GLICKSTEIN-Hyman N. On February 12th. Pre-deceased by his beloved wife Ruth (Lurie). Devoted father of Richard and Jonathan and the late Barbara. Dear fatherin-law of Carolyn and Eileen. Loving grandfather of Debra Ellen, Michael, Ethan and Samuel. Services will be held Sunday, 11 AM, at Ri
 GOODMAN - Howard Charles, M.D. Passed away on February 6th, 1998. He was seventy-seven. Educated at Harvard University and Johns Hopkins Medical School, he had a long and distinguished international career at the National Institutes of Health, the World Health Organization and at Johns Hopk
 GORDON-Wallace M. Age 69. Formerly of Bay Head, NJ, Leesburg, VA. and New York City. On February 12, 1998, in Harrisville, NH. Graduated Solebury School, Solebury, PA. Attended UVA. Served USNR during Korean War. Survived by his loving wife, the former Margaret Legband, sisters Mary Shulman
 LANGE-J. Carvel. Of Greenwich, CT, died Thursday, February 12, at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, FL. He was a notable industrial and financial economist. Born July 29, 1901, in Allenhurst, NJ, Mr. Lange attended Columbia undergraduate and law school. He was President of New York bas
 MACKENDRICK-Paul Lachlan. An internationally known classicist died Tuesday, February 10, 1998 in Madison, Wisconsin following a brief illness. He graduated from Harvard as class valedictorian in 1934 earning his AB Degree summa cum laude. He spent the next two years as a Harvard University 
 MACKINTOSH-Robert. His costumes graced the stage for Wish You Were Here, Mame, How Now Dow Jones, Sherry, among other Broadway hits. His friends and colleagues in the theater will miss his wit, his talent, and his humanity. Mary Lea and I loved him dearly. Rest in peace, Bobby. Marty Richar
 MOSES-Abraham. Left us in his 97th year, February 11, 1998. Beloved father of Julian and Maurice, dear father-in-law of Mildred and Lila, brother of Billie Ditkoff, loving grandfather of Jeffrey, Andrew, Lisa and Robert, great grand-dad of Ariel, Jarret, Chandler, Harrison and Julia, grandf
 NESS-Theodore. On February 12, 1998. Age 81. At home, surrounded by his family. A graduate of City College, Phi Beta Kappa and Harvard Law School, both with honors. Partner at the law firm Herzfeld & Rubin, he was the author of numerous articles and treatises on corporate taxation including
 RUBIN-Ira Lloyd, M.D. It is with great sadness that the death of Ira Lloyd Rubin, M.D. on February 12 is announced. He was the beloved husband of Beatrice Bober Rubin for more than 57 years and the devoted son of the late Dr. Meyer and the late Gertrude Rubin. He is survived by his wife and
 SPRINGER-Fred. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and Staff of Peninsula Hospital Center and Peninsula General Nursing Home mourn the passing of our esteemed member of the Board of Directors, Fred Springer. He served as Treasurer of the Board until his death, and was an e
 SUNDBERG-Walter Carl. 84. Survived by his wife Edith and his son Walter, Jr. He was an employee of Chemical Bank from 1930 until 1979, where he rose to the rank of Vice President. Memorial service Tuesday, 7 PM, Christ Lutheran Church, Woodcliff Lake, NJ.       
 TANGERMAN-Elmer J. ''Tange''. August 1907 to February 1998. Technical Editor, Author, Woodcarver, Teacher. BSME, ME, Purdue University. Editor of Product Engineering, McGraw Hill, retired 1970. Teacher at JC Campbell Folk School. Survived by his wife Mary C. Tangerman, two daughters, grandc
 THOMASHOWER-Marvin. Age 73, of Manhasset, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, on February 11, 1998, in Palm Beach, after a long illness bravely borne. Beloved husband of Rosalie Caplan Thomashower for 48 years, loving father of Laurie and her husband David Ridell, devoted grandfather of Lindsey and Mar
 WEISSMAN-George. Of Whitestone, NY. Died February 8, 1998 at age 82 in Del Ray Beach, Florida. As a young man, living in Brownsville during the Second World War, entered the Marines, fought in the Pacific, saw action on Okinawa, and did post-war service in China. A hard worker, and always a
 Robert E. McEnroe, who wrote ''The Silver Whistle,'' a frequently revived 1948 Broadway comedy about a garrulous tramp who spreads good cheer through a home for the aged, died on Feb. 6 at the Hughes Convalescent Home in West Hartford, Conn. He was 82. Mr. McEnroe had written a doze
 Thomas Chapin, one of the more exuberant saxophonists and bandleaders in jazz, died of complications due to leukemia on Friday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence, said a friend, Sam Kaufman. He was 40. Mr. Chapin was one of jazz's more extraordinary musicians. A typical solo of 
 Anthony W. Le Vier, a test pilot who helped pioneer the development of American jet fighters in the 1940's and 50's and who made the first test flights of the U-2 spy plane, died on Feb. 6 at Verdugo Hills Hospital in Glendale, Calif. He was 84 and lived in La Canada. Once, when spe
 Maurice V. Russell, an educator who taught and directed social services at New York institutions for four decades, died on Feb. 8 in a fire at his weekend home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 74 and lived on Manhattan's East Side. He died of smoke inhalation from a fire near a wood stove,
 BLOCH-Rabbi Abraham. Beloved husband of 61 years of the late Belle Bloch. Devoted father of Liebe and Zachary Pfel and Raphael and Dorothy Bloch. Cherished grandfather and greatgrandfather. Services at ''Boulevard-Riverside,'' 312 Coney Island Ave. (at Prospect Park), Booklyn, today, at 11 
 FLAMM-Donald. The officers, Board of Directors, Governors and executives of the Orthodox Union sadly mourn the loss of Donald Flamm, friend, supporter, member of the Board of Governors and beloved husband of Elayne Flamm. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. May they be
 MACKINTOSH-Robert. His costumes graced the stage for Wish You Were Here, Mame, How Now Dow Jones, Sherry, among other Broadway hits. His friends and colleagues in the theater will miss his wit, his talent, and his humanity. Mary Lea and I loved him dearly. Rest in peace, Bobby. Marty Richar
 MARTELL-Paul. Age 50, of 408 Hammett Rd., Greer, SC, died Friday. Born in Brooklyn, he was founder and President of Greenville Finishing Co. He attended C. W. Post College on Long Island and Florida State University. He was an Air Force veteran of the Viet Nam Conflict. Surviving are his wi
 MILLER-David. 91, former Vice President and General Counsel of Young & Rubicam, on February 13, 1998. Husband of Rosalie, father of Allan and Martha, grandfather of Michael and Steven, great grandfather of Isidore and Abigail. Memorial service at a later date. MILLER-David. As our e
 PITMAN-David B., M.D. Age 89, on February 13. Beloved husband of Velma ''Mimi'' (Smale), devoted father of Roger, Douglas, Jeffrey and Peter, cherished brother of Laura Kaplan. Born in Manhattan, he received an M.D. degree in 1933 and practiced in Port Washington until 1972. He was the firs
 PLATT-Abe A. 83, of Bronxville, New York and formerly of Mount Vernon, NY, died February 14, 1998, in New York. Beloved husband of the late Ann. Devoted brother of Esther, Anna and the late Ruth and Philip. Loving father of Mitchell, William (Lynne), Diane and Gale. Dear companion of Dottie
 SPRINGER-Fred. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and Staff of Peninsula Hospital Center and Peninsula General Nursing Home mourn the passing of our esteemed member of the Board of Directors, Fred Springer. He served as Treasurer of the Board until his death, and was an e
 ULRICH-Murray K. On February 14, we bid farewell to Murray. Devoted father, unique father-in-law, enchanted grandfather, guiding brother and Rita's courageous widower. We have let him go with a hug, a wink and a heaviness in our hearts. David, Andrew and Stefanie       
 Richard S. West, a former member of Lloyd's of London in the United States, died Feb. 3 at his home in Wenham, Mass. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Ruth. Mr. West and his partner, Allan D. Parker, became members of Lloyd's of London in 1968, and founded Lloy
 William G. Lambert, an investigative reporter whose work led to the resignation of Abe Fortas from the United States Supreme Court in 1969 and who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1957 for exposing corruption in the teamsters' union, died Feb. 8. He was 78 years old and lived in Villanova, Pa.      
 Hyman Nathan Glickstein, a retired Manhattan lawyer and businessman and an activist in New York City politics of the 1930's, died last Thursday at the Greenwich Woods Health Care Center in Greenwich, Conn. He was 91 and formerly lived in Manhattan, Scarsdale, N.Y., and Hollywood, Fla.      
 Jacques Robert, a key leader of the Resistance in France in World War II, died on Feb. 8, Le Monde reported on Saturday. He was 83. Mr. Robert, born in Paris, was decorated for bravery as a lieutenant in a tank unit during the German invasion in 1940. In August, 1940, he joi
 BRODSKY-Bernard. MD. Psychoanalyst. 84. Died suddenly on February 12, 1998 while swimming in the Caribbean. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Nina, Laura and Mary and fatherin-law of Kenneth Roth and Stuart Zura. Adoring grandfather of Lisa and Emma Roth. His passion for life and
 DUFF-William. Died February 9, 1998 in Shelter Island. He was born in New Castle, Pa. on September 17, 1916. His daughter, Christina, pre-deceased him. He is survived by his son, Alexander Duff, and his daughter, Fiona Duff, both of New York City, and by his former wife, Odile Utard Duff of
 GOLDSMITH-Charles. Age 90. Of West Palm Beach, FL, died February 14, 1998 at Good Samaritan Medical Center there. He is survived by Lee, his wife of 60 years, and by son Henry and daughter-inlaw Tessa and was predeceased by his son James Theodore. A 1929 graduate of Dartmouth College, he de
 GREENBERG-James E. Age 99. Of West Palm Beach, FL. Died Saturday, February 14, 1998. Loving husband of Betty, cherished by Debby and Rusty, his grandchildren Elaine, David, Lorre and Douglas, great grandchildren Daniel, Russell and Vanessa, Stephen and Alice Carb, and their children Brian, 
 LEBENS-Henry J. Age 84, of Ft. Lee, NJ and Pompano Beach, FL, passed away after a short debilitating illness. Beloved husband of Roslyn for 56 years. Loving father of Leslie Davies and Donna Epstein. Devoted father-in-law of Michael Davies and Dr. Mitchell Epstein. Cherished grandfather of 
 LEVY-Walter. Husband of Beatrice. Father of Ronald and Fran, Peter and Wendy. Grandfather of Benjamin Julius and Jacob Bartholomew. Brother of Arnold Levy, Arline and Murray Goldfarb. Brother-in-law of Elaine Harris and Anne Green. Services Tuesday, 12 noon at Central Synagogue of Nassau Co
 MILLER-David. As our esteemed and beloved Counsel for more than 20 years, Dave's wisdom, warmth, wit, intelligence, conscience and dignity taught us what great lawyering was about. We were graced and honored to be his friend and colleague. Our love to his beautiful Sally and to Allan and Ma
 MILLHOLLAND-Paul Douglass II, 93, on February 9 following a brief illness. A pioneer for new practices of cash management in the National Division of Citibank for 40 years, he retired as a Vice-President in 1969. He then consulted for the Foundation for Full Service Banks, NY, the U.S. Post
 SCHNEIDER-Morris. Central Synagogue of Nassau County sorrowfully announces the passing ot its long time member and past President, and extends to his beloved family its sincerest sympathy. Rabbi Julian I. Cook Judith D. Race, Pres.       
 SCHUMANN-Maurice. We express our deep sympathy to the family of Maurice Schumann and, in particular, to his daughter Laurence Schumnn Heckscher, her husband Stephen Hackscher, and their children Benjamin, Timothy and Olivia. Maurice Schumann was a voice of freedom and dignity on his side of
 SPIEGEL-David. On February 15, 1998. Loved and respected father and father-in-law of Fred and Ruth. Will be sadly missed by his grandchildren Stephen and Heather, his brother Sol and his aunt Elsa. Services at ''The Riverside'', 180 West 76 Street, NYC Wednesday, February 18th, 11:45AM.    
 SPRINGER-Fred. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and Staff of Peninsula Hospital Center and Peninsula General Nursing Home mourn the passing of our esteemed member of the Board of Directors, Fred Springer. He served as Treasurer of the Board until his death, and was an e
 ULRICH-Murray K. On February 14, we bid farewell to Murray. Devoted father, unique father-in-law, enchanted grandfather, guiding brother and Rita's courageous widower. We have let him go with a hug, a wink and a heaviness in our hearts. David, Andrew and Stefanie       
 Arthur Cohn, a versatile and prolific composer, conductor and author whose books and articles celebrated the diversity of classical music and made it accessible to a large audience, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. As an author, 
 Ernst Junger, an aloof warrior-author regarded as one of Germany's most controversial and contradictory writers, died yesterday in Wilflingen, in southwestern Germany, where he had lived for nearly 50 years. He was 102. Mr. Junger was so well regarded that Chancellor Helmut Kohl and
 AUERBACH-George. 89. Of Howard Beach, N.Y. Passed away in Tamarac Fl. on February 16, 1998. He is survived by his loving wife of 65 years, Sophie, devoted children, Sandra (Herbert) Weiss, Robert (Elizabeth) Auerbach, four cherished grandchildren, and six great grandchildren. A member of th
 BLOCH-Rabbi Abraham. The New York Board of Rabbis mourns the passing of its longtime member. May Heaven console his family and congregants. Rabbi Marc Schneier, President Rabbi G.S. Rosenthal, Exec. VP       
 BRAMAN-Chester A. 71, on February 16, 1998 in Vero Beach, Fla. Born in New York City, April 9, 1926. Graduate of Pomfret School and Yale University, Class of 1946. U.S. Navy, 1945-1953; discharged as Lieutenant Commander. Retired Executive Vice President of Graniteville (textile) Company, N
 COHN-Arthur. The Board of Directors, Officers and Staff of Carl Fischer, Inc., mourn he passing of our distinguished friend and colleague, Arthur Cohn. As Director of Serious Music for the firm since 1973, Arthur had an enormous impact on the growth and development of the Fischer Catalogue.
 FLAMM-Donald, 98 of Palm Beach and New Jersey, passed away February 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Elayne. Dear brother of Milton Flamm. Loving stepfather of Jim Knee, wife Linda Knee, Bobby Knee, wife Nancy Knee. Cherished grandfather of Daniel Knee. Caring father-in-law of Harry Needelman. 
 FRANCO-Salvatore. The New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International records with deep sorrow the death of Sal Franco, loving husband of Carol. Sal was a special friend and supporter of diabetes research from the very beginning. He will be missed by everyone. We extend o
 GOLD-Herbert. Of Monroe Township, NJ formerly of Glen Cove, NY, died at home, Feburary 7. He succumbed to lymphoma after having fought it ferociously. BA and MA, Hofstra University; had been a fiscal consultant. Served overseas with Allied Forces HQ, WW II. Survived by his beloved wife of 3
 GORRELICK-Rabbi Benjamin H. We note with sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1934, he served for 55 years at Congregation Beth Achim in Detroit, MI. After many years in the rabbinate he became emeritus of Beth Achim 29 years ago. We extend our deepest condolences to hi
 GROSSMAN-Rabbi Herman. We note with sadness the passing of our beloved colleague who served pulpits in Pennsylvania and New York before embarking on a 20 year career as a VA chaplain. After his retirement, he made aliyah to Israel with his family. We extend our deepest condolences to his wi
 LEHRER-Arthur. On February 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Phyllis, loving father of Halli and Rob, Karen and Steve, Susan and Michael, adoring grandfather of Sara, Melanie, Katie, Jamie, and Aaron. Services Thursday, February 19, at 11 A.M. Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern Blvd. Manhasset, N.Y. 
 LEVY-Walter. With profound sorrow the Officers and Board of Trustees of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations mourn the death of our devoted friend and colleague. Wally served Reform Judaism for many years, giving of his time and talents with loving dedication. A man of the book, his l
 MILLER-David. As our esteemed and beloved Counsel for more than 20 years, Dave's wisdom, warmth, wit, intelligence, conscience and dignity taught us what great lawyering was about. We were graced and honored to be his friend and colleague. Our love to his beautiful Sally and to Allan and Ma
 MORELLI-Millie (nee Ciriegio) On Feb. 16, 1998. Loving wife of the late Peter J. Cherished mother of Benedict P. Morelli. Loving mother-in-law of Arlene. Devoted grandmother of Justin and Alexander. Reposing at Andrew Torregrossa and Sons, 345 Avenue U, Brooklyn, NY. Funeral Mass Friday 9:3
 ROSENBERG-Anton, 71, of Woodstock, NY and NYC, died February 14, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan for over 40 years; loving father of Shaun, Jeremy and Matthew; and father-in-law of Anne, Claudia and Kerry. Anton was a close friend to some of his generation's most influential artists including
 RUBIN-Ira Lloyd. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ira Lloyd Rubin, a generous supporter of UJA-Federation. A gifted cardiologist, he was a dedicated leader in our Physician's Division through his activities at Montefiore Medical 
 SHAPIRO-Albert, on February 16, 1998, of Sands Point, L.I. Beloved husband of Honey (Honora). Devoted father of Stephen Shapiro, Barbara Witkin, Kelly and Lou Gonda. Dearest brother and best friend to Harold. Adored brotherin-law to Barbara. Cherished grandfather of Eli, Eva, Nicolas, Jonat
 WEINSTOCK-Charles, M.D., on February 15, 1998. Beloved father of Catherine and Margot. Survived by his wife Marion and his sister Dorothy Marks. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, Sunday, 1PM.       
 YAVERBAUM - Arnold, M.D. Rachel, Peter, and Danny, bid adeiu to their dear grandfather. They join Justine, Harvey and Kathy in cherishing his laughter. They will forever collect boxtops, memorize line ups, and believe in house calls. Thank you for the magic, grandpa. We love you.       
 Arnold Aronson, who devoted six decades to the civil rights struggle and was a planner of the 1963 March on Washington and a founder of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, died on Tuesday at his home in Wheaton, Md. He was 86. Although not widely known beyond those who worked
 Bob Merrill, one of Tin Pan Alley's most prolific tunesmiths, who wrote  music, lyrics or both for popular Broadway musicals including ''Funny Girl'' and had the nation tapping its toes to such novelty hits as ''How Much Is That Doggie in the Window?,'' was found dead in his car on Tuesday 
 Harry Caray, whose zesty, raucous style of baseball play-by-play electrified airwaves and roused fans for more than half a century, died yesterday at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 78. Mr. Caray, who lived in Palm Springs, Calif., during the baseball off s
 Kenneth Frankel, a prolific stage director who won an Obie award for his production of Simon Gray's ''Quartermaine's Terms'' and staged the premiere of Mark Medoff's ''When You Comin' Back, Red Ryder?,'' died last Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 56. The cause was a brain
 BALKE-Henry. We are saddened by the passing of a good friend and dedicated Auxiliary volunteer. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his family members. Hilary Chilton, President, Auxiliary North Shore University Hospital Manhasset       
 BRODSKY-Bernard, M.D. Psychoanalyst, 84. Died suddenly February 12, 1998 while swimming in the Caribbean. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Nina, Laura and Mary and fatherin-law of Kenneth Roth and Stuart Zura. Adoring grandfather of Lisa and Emma Roth. His passion for life and a
 BROWN-Milton. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Milton Brown, Department of Art. His twenty-five years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Vernon E. Lattin, President Brooklyn College       
 CLEAVER-George H. Formerly of Huntington, New York and prior to that, Washington, D.C., died on February 14 at a nursing home in Amherst, Massachusetts after a long illnes. He was 80 years old. He is survived by his wife Claudia Jones Cleaver of Amherst, Massachusetts, his five children, Ke
 COHN-Arthur. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Arthur Cohn, an inspired composer, author, publisher, violonist, conductor and courageous advocate for 20th Century music. At age 87, he continued to serve on ASCAP's Special Class
 DRUKIER-Charles. Beloved husband of the late Toby. Devoted father of Ira. Father-in-law of Gale and adored grandfather of Jennifer. He was charismatic, gentle and strong. All those who were fortunate to know him will always remember and miss him. His good deeds were boundless, and there wil
 FLAMM-Donald. The officers and Board of Directors of the Hebrew Free Loan Society mourn the loss of Donald Flamm, Vice-President and Board member for over 50 years. His wise counsel and contributions to the Society's mission over the years were invaluable. We extend our heartfelt condolence
 HARM-Carl S. On Feb. 17, 1998. A leader in the development of Community Boards for Mental Health Centers and a champion of Tenants Rights through his work with Park West Village Tenants Association and related groups. He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Mary Gay Harm; a son, Ronald Carl
 HERRICK - Snowden Terhune. Born 4th of March, 1919. Son of H.T. and Elinore Morehouse Herrick. Deceased 18 February, 1998 of leukemia. Is survived by his wife Casey Isaacs Herrick. Daughter of Stanley M. Isaacs, former Borough President of Manhattan. And his son Michael Morehouse Herrick of
 MORELLI-Mildred. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing of Mildred Morelli, a lovely and gracious lady, mother of our esteemed client and friend of many years, Ben Morelli. Our heartfelt condolences to him and his family. Lipsky, Goodkin & Co.     
 ROSENBERG-Henry W. Of Basking Ridge, New Jersey on February 18, 1998. Beloved husband of Diana Lawrence. Father of Kevin of Easton, Massachusetts, Marc and Leigh of Basking Ridge. Grandfather of Shari and Aliya Rosenberg of Easton, Massachusetts. Son of Frieda Rosenberg of Somerset, NJ. Rel
 SHAPIRO-Albert. The officers, directors and employees of Shorewood Financial, Inc., CenTrust Mortgage Corporation, MidCoast Mortgage Corporation and their affiliates and subsidiaries mourn the passing of their Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Albert Shapiro. We 
 SIMELS-Irving William, 85. Son of Louis and Lee. Mount Vernon and Bronx, dentist for over 45 years, beloved husband of Lilyan, father of Toba Stutz, and Robert Simels, grandfather of Edward, Jennifer and Rebecca Stutz, and Alexandra Simels, and his brother Raymond. Brother-in-law to Ruth Ka
 WEINSTOCK-Charles, MD. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Society note with profound sorrow the death of an Institute graduate, a Society member, a colleague and friend. Dr. Weinstock's earnest and assiduous endeavors towards the 
 Charles Cogen, the first president of the New York City teachers' union and the leader of a one-day strike in 1960 that won bargaining rights for the city's public-school teachers, died Wednesday. He was 94. Mr. Cogen died of Parkinson's disease in a retirement home in Washington, f
 Justice Lewis R. Friedman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, who was entrusted with the most complex commercial cases on the docket, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital after suffering a heart attack. He was 56 and lived on the Upper East Side. He was stricken while exercising i
 Lord Granville of Eye, the oldest member of the British Parliament, died in a London nursing home on Saturday, two days after making a rare appearance in the House of Lords to celebrate his 100th birthday. His life as a soldier, politician, businessman and author of spy thrillers re
 ARONSON-Arnold. An example of how one person can make a difference, Arnie was truly society's mentor. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Association of Jewish Community Relations Workers, AJCRW Marlene Gorin, President       
 COGEN-Charles. The Officers and members of the United Federation of Teachers mourn the loss of Charles Cogen, the founding president of the UFT. By winning the nation's first contract for teachers he set the stage for current education reforms and was a pioneer in the continuing struggle to
 COHN-Arthur. Mannes College of Music mourns the passing of friend and donor Arthur Cohn. We are immensely grateful for his generous support of Mannes's Harry Scherman Library, to benefit future generations of music students. We extend our deep condolences to his wife Lois and to his family.
 DRUKIER-Charles. Beloved husband of the late Toby. Devoted father of Ira. Father-in-law of Gale and adored grandfather of Jennifer. He was charismatic, gentle and strong. All those who were fortunate to know him will always remember and miss him. His good deeds were boundless, and there wil
 FINKELSTEIN-Maurice L. Age 77, on February 18, 1998. Beloved husband of Lenore. Devoted father of Jeanne, Alice and Jay. Adored grandfather of Jared and Sarah. Former president of Benjamin Flax, Inc. and past-captain of the New Rochelle City Tennis Team. His laughter, wisdom and strength wi
 FLAMM-Donald. A wonderful, unforgettable friend who initially unselfishly arranged the program for evacuee British children to telephone their parents during World War II through his ownership of WMCA. Our sympathy to Elayne, Milton, his wife and all the family. Dolly and Bob Raisler       
 FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. The board and staff of the Educational Alliance deeply mourn the sudden and untimely death of Judge Lewis R. Friedman, beloved husband of our devoted and committed Trustee and Senior Vice President, Bernice. Lew devoted his professional and personal life, as does his 
 KARA-Gerald B., M.D. With great sorrow, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary Board of Directors, Medical Staff and Administration mourn the passing of an esteemed ophthalmologist, renowned intraocular surgeon and guiding force within the hospital. After completing residency here in 1949, Dr. 
 KELLY-William E. The partners and employees of Lane & Mittendorf LLP mourn the passing of William E. Kelly, our colleague for more than forty years. His counsel and friendship will be greatly missed. Our thoughts and condolences are extended to his family.       
 KELLY-William E. II, age 68, of Spring Lake, New Jersey, died on February 18, 1998 at his home in Spring Lake, New Jersey. He had been hospitalized at ColumbiaPresbyterian Hospital. Born in Brooklyn, NY, graduate of Brooklyn Preparatory, Columbia University and Columbia University Law Schoo
 LIBEN-Ned (Ebn). His family is heartbroken to announce his sudden and tragic death of a heart attack at age 44. A musician, composer, arranger and producer, he worked with among others, The Ramones, Ravi Shankar and The Talking Heads at his recording studios, Sundragon and Sound Over Soho. 
 MILLER-David. The officers and employees of Young & Rubicam Inc. note with sadness the passing of its retired general counsel and revered counselor. No one did more to establish and maintain the character and principles of the agency and its people. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife 
 MORELLI-Millie. The staff of the law firm, Dinkes & Morelli, extend our heartfelt condolences to our respected and loved Senior Partner, Benedict P. Morelli on the loss of his beloved mother, Millie Morelli.       
 ROSENBLATT-David Alan. On February 18, 1998, of Manhattan, NY, devoted father of Pamela and Matthew Rosenblatt, succumbed to complications of diabetes after putting up a heroic battle. Beloved first-born of Claire and William Rosenblatt of Boca Raton, FL. Loving big brother of Stuart, Mark 
 TAYLOR-Peter Burr. On February 14, 1998 in Boulder, CO. Devoted husband of Jeanne. Loving father of Susan T. Windward of Glendale, CA., and Anne Taylor of Anchorage, AK. Proud grandfather of Shane and Taylor Wallace. Brother of Walter Jennings Taylor of Busby, MT. and Aspen, CO., Jean Taylo
 Benjamin Aranda 3d, a judge of the Los Angeles Municipal Court and a founder of organizations that worked toward increasing employment opportunities for minorities in the judicial system, died on Jan. 28. He was 58 and lived in Torrance, Calif. Judge Aranda, who suffered from hypert
 David C. Masket, a former president of Maidenform Worldwide, died at New York University Hospital on Feb. 3. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Masket, who did not smoke, died of lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Masket began his career in the 1950's with the Atomic Energ
 Donald Flamm, a former New York broadcaster and theatrical producer who helped shape the notion of a Voice of America, died on Sunday at Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 98 and had homes in Palm Beach and Alpine, N.J. Mr. Flamm was a native of Pittsburgh
 Fernando Abril Martorell, a former Deputy Prime Minister and a key figure in Spain's transition to democracy after the Franco dictatorship, died on Monday at Puerta de Hierro Hospital in Madrid. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, the hospital said. Born in Valencia on Aug
 H. Gardner Ackley, an economics adviser to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, and a United States Ambassador to Italy, died in Ann Arbor, Mich., on Feb. 12. Professor Ackley, who retired in 1984 after 43 years as a member of the economics department at the University of Michi
 Louis Marshall Jones, a mainstay of the Grand Ole Opry and country music since he transformed himself at age 22 into the corn-pone, banjo-pickin' Grandpa Jones who later gained ''Hee Haw'' fame, died on  Thursday at McKendree Village in Nashville. He was 84 and lived in  Goodlettsville, Ten
 AVEDON-Samson. Age 89, formerly of New York City and now of Hollywood and Miami, FL. died February 16, 1998. He was the husband of the late Pauline Grossberg Avedon and cousin of Dru and Harvey Avedon of New York. Samson Avedon was the Comptroller of the Gillman Paper Co. of New York City u
 BENIMOFF-Dr. Murray. On February 19, 1998. Husband of Norma (nee Woldman) of Cherry Hill, New Jersey. Father of Dr. Alissa (Dr. James) Fox and Dr. Nicholas (Susan Fussell) Benimoff. Grandfather of Jonathan Fox and Alexandra Fox. Services and Interment will be Sunday in Cleveland, OH. The fa
 DRUKIER-Charles. Our sympathy to you, Ira, Gale and Jennifer. He will be missed by all of us. Elli and Izreal Krakowski Lilli and Axel Stawski Harry and Andrea Krakowski       
 FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. Devoted husband of Bernice, beloved father of Karen, cherished son of Dr. Sylvia N. and the late Harold, loving brother of Dr. Diane. Services 11AM Sunday, Park Avenue Synagogue, East 87th Street and Madison Ave. Contributions may be made to the Forman Friedman Fund, 
 KARA-Gerald B., M.D. With great sorrow, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary Board of Directors, Medical Staff and Administration mourn the passing of an esteemed ophthalmologist, renowned intraocular surgeon and guiding force within the hospital. After completing residency here in 1949, Dr. 
 MERRILL-Bob. I am deeply saddened by the loss of my colleague, collaborator and friendone of the last quality writers whose work was at home on both the Hit Parade and the musical stage as we once knew them. Successes or not, whether ''Carnival,'' ''Take Me Along,'' ''Sugar,'' or ''Breakfas
 MILLER-David. The officers and employees of Young & Rubicam Inc. note with sadness the passing of its retired general counsel and revered counselor. No one did more to establish and maintain the character and principles of the agency and its people. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife 
 STEYER-Murray. Beloved husband of Beatrice Steyer for 51 years. Loving father of Robert, Richard and Betsy and loved father-in-law of Fred and Patricia. Treasured grandfather of Matthew, Laura and Harry. Devoted brother of Frances S. Martinson and the late Roy Steyer. He died as he lived-wi
 WEINBERGER-Aron. Born on February 5, 1904 in Auschwitz, Poland, earned Doctor of Laws from University of Krakow, Poland. As a young lawyer he dedicated his life to political and Zionist causes. During W.W. II, he spent several years with his family in concentration camps where he was electe
 ZABELL-Irving. Of Concord, California, formerly of Great Neck, N.Y. He leaves a loving family of wife Naomi, daughters Geri, Patrice and Gina, and four grandchildren. This strong and gentle man will be deeply missed by his family and friends.       
 Raymond Bushell, a lawyer who was a collector of Japanese art and an authority on the miniature sculptures called netsuke, died on Jan. 17 at a nursing home in San Francisco. He was 87. While living and practicing law in Tokyo from 1948 to 1989, Mr. Bushell acquired thousands of exa
 Anton Rosenberg, a storied sometime artist and occasional musician who embodied the Greenwich Village hipster ideal of 1950's cool to such a laid-back degree and with such determined detachment that he never amounted to much of anything, died on Feb. 14 at a hospital near his home in Woodst
 Jack D. Myers, a doctor who was widely regarded as one of the nation's best at diagnosis and who developed one of the first computer programs to help doctors diagnose complex cases, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 84. Dr. Myers, whose field was internal medicine, w
 Lee Sherman, who danced with Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in the 1930's and 40's, died on Feb. 12 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan after a brief illness. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Sherman, who was born in Brooklyn, was a track star in high school; he 
 CAMP-Paul T., 78. Of San Marcos, CA., formerly of Somers, NY, passed away Feb. 16, 1998. Born in Springfield, MA on May 2, 1921. Retired as International Quality Control Director for Pfizer Inc. Survived by his wife of fifty-three years, Phyllis Reynolds Camp of San Marcos, CA., one daughte
 DABNEY-Seth Mason, III. Attorney. Died suddenly on February 17, while vacationing on Captiva Island, FL. Age 79. Born in Brooklyn, graduate of CCNY and Columbia University Law School. Served with US Army Signal Corps in WW II. Resident of Ridgewood, NJ, until joining Caterpillar Inc and rel
 FOSS-Joseph W., 87, of Albuquerque, NM. Died February 16, 1998. He is survived by his daughter, Frances Lee Neufeld, of Albuquerque, and grandson, Christopher Blake, of Los Angeles. Mr. Foss was President and CEO of General Tire International and Chairman of the Board of Inverness Investmen
 FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. Devoted husband of Bernice, beloved father of Karen, cherished son of Dr. Sylvia N. and the late Harold, loving brother of Dr. Diane. Services 11AM Sunday, Park Avenue Synagogue, East 87th Street and Madison Ave. Contributions may be made to the Forman Friedman Fund, 
 MERRILL-Bob.The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers mourns the sad loss of our esteemed member, Bob Merrill, writer of many memorable songs and Broadway scores. We extend our condolences to his family. Marilyn Bergman President & Chairman, ASCAP       
 MILLER-David. The officers and employees of Young & Rubicam Inc. note with sadness the passing of its retired general counsel and revered counselor. No one did more to establish and maintain the character and principles of the agency and its people. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife 
 PERERA - Charles A., M.D., Ophthalmologist, died January 27, 1998 at 92. Graduate of Horace Mann, Princeton; received M.D. from Columbia Univ; practiced in NYC; served as editor of ''May's Diseases of the Eye''. Attending Ophthalmologist at Presbyterian Hospital and Cl. Prof. at Columbia, h
 RUDES-Stanley. On February 19, 1998. Born January 7, 1911 in Brooklyn, New York. Graduate NYU, Class of 1932. Husband of Mignon Rudes. Beloved brother of Kate R. Kolber. Cherished father of Terri R. Davis and Jerome H. Rudes. Devoted grandfather of Randy Davis, Jeff Davis and Lisa Sparks an
 SPRINGER-Fred. The Board of Directors, administration, Medical Research Advisory Board, volunteers and members of the American Parkinson Disease Association, Inc, mourn the passing of longtime member of the Board of Directors, Fred Springer. He served as President Emeritus and Treasurer unt
 STEYER-Murray. Beloved husband of Beatrice Steyer for 51 years. Loving father of Robert, Richard and Betsy and loved father-in-law of Fred and Patricia. Treasured grandfather of Matthew, Laura and Harry. Devoted brother of Frances S. Martinson and the late Roy Steyer. He died as he lived-wi
 WEINSTOCK-Charles, M.D., on February 15, 1998. Beloved father of Catherine and Margot. Survived by his wife Marion and his sister Dorothy Marks. Memorial service Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, today, 1 PM.       
 WINSLOW-Alfred B. Of Sarasota, FL, and Westport, CT, passed away February 20, 1998, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Devoted husband of Jytte Winslow and father of Merry, Richard and Frederick Winslow and Mark and Nina Hellman and eight grandchildren. Mr. Winslow was a gradua
 ZEIDMAN-Eugene M. Age 93, on February 17, 1998, peacefully at home in Birmingham, Alabama. Attorney and long time leader of Birmingham Jewish community. His wife of 57 years, Ida Fisher Zeidman, and grandson, John Fisher Zeidman predeceased him. Survived by daughter, Adele Z. Silver of Clev
 DRABKIN-Steven Wayne. 10/19/61-2/23/81. The heart hath its own memory, like the mind, and in it are enshrined his precious keepsakes. Loving Family       
 Thomas E. Norton, an art consultant, writer and former senior vice president and director of Sotheby's,  died on Feb. 7 at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 63 and lived in Kennebunkport, Me. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Mary Louise. A 
 John Fulton, a Philadelphia-born artist who worked with cape and sword in the bullrings of Spain, then celebrated his momentary masterpieces of ritual death by painting pictures of the very bulls he had slain using their own blood, died on Friday in a hospital near his home in Seville. He w
 M. Norvel Young, the chancellor emeritus who guided Pepperdine University through a period of robust growth as its third president, died last Tuesday at his campus residence in Malibu, Calif. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, a Pepperdine spokesman said. Dr. Young was
 Morris Edward Kriensky, an artist and writer who helped Gen. Claire Lee Chennault's Flying Tigers bomb their targets with precision in the 1937-45 Sino-Japanese war, died on Feb. 8 at Beth Israel North Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kriensky, who was bo
 GINSBERG-Louis. Cherished son, deeply caring brother, and dear uncle. Devoted husband of the late Lillian Rosenblatt Ginsberg and the late Renee Haskin Ginsberg. Adored and adoring father of the late Bernice Ginsberg Segal. Beloved and loving grandfather of Elizabeth and Daniel, and grandda
 KRAFT-Norman. My friend of more than 60 years, I miss him already. Humor, intellect, compassion and empathy were his hallmarks. Fiercely loyal to his family, his friends, and his people. Normie, thanks for the memories. Harold Zweighaft       
 STEYER-Murray. Beloved husband of Beatrice Steyer for 51 years. Loving father of Robert, Richard and Betsy and loved father-in-law of Fred and Patricia. Treasured grandfather of Matthew, Laura and Harry. Devoted brother of Frances S. Martinson and the late Roy Steyer. He died as he lived-wi
 WAGNER-Mark. On February 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Sheila. Loving father of Brian, Caren, Holly, Roger and Carolyn. Devoted son of Beatrice and Henry. Dear brother of Charlene and Corinne. Adoring grandfather of Ryan and Rachel. He will also be greatly missed by his partner and friend, S
 Abraham A. Ribicoff, the powerful and popular Governor of Connecticut, Congressman and United States Senator who served as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare under John F. Kennedy, the President he helped elect, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale in the Bron
 Robert Jorgen, who led New York City's efforts to offer emergency shelter for homeless families from the time their files began to trickle to his desk until his retirement from the Human Resources Administration in 1986, died on Jan. 22 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 72.        
 Stephen D. James, a onetime advertising copywriter whose unlikely proposal for a vast Soviet-American hostage-exchange program propelled him onto the cold war stage and led to cultural exchange tours in the 1960's, died on Jan. 30 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived 
 Billy Sullivan, a former newspaperman, printing salesman, college publicist and oil-company executive who founded the Boston (now New England) Patriots professional football team and ran it for almost 30 often-rocky years, died yesterday at his retirement home in Atlantis, Fla. He was 82 ye
 Jose Maria de Areilza y Martinez de Rodas, who was Franco's Ambassador to the United States in the 1950's but later soured on the Government and, after the dictator's death in 1975, served briefly as Foreign Minister, died on Sunday at his Madrid home. He was 88. As Foreign Minister
 Mancur Olson, 66, an economist at the University of Maryland widely admired for his research on how groups that represent specialized interests affect economic growth, died last Thursday. He lived in University Park, Md. The cause of death was a sudden heart attack, the university s
 COPLEMAN-Benjamin, M.D. of Freehold, NJ, on Feb. 23, 1998, in his 90th year of complications from a stroke. Survived by his wife, Grace Levine Copleman, children Ralph and Martha, grandsons Paul and Andrew Copleman; he was also father-in-law of Joyce Copleman and Oliver Rosengart. Born 12/1
 CORY-Christopher B. Of Boston died in the China Airlines crash Taipei, Taiwan, February 16, 1998. He is survived by his father Dr. Joseph P. Cory, his mother Janet A. Burbank Cory, two sisters Denise A. Hubbard, Diana M. Cory and one niece Olivia Seymour. A memorial service will be held on 
 DUNTON-Harlow Donald, M.D. February 21, 1998. The staff and faculty of Child Psychiatry at Columbia extend their condolences to his wife Patricia and to his family. Dr. Dunton was a pioneer in the field, a former Director of the Division and a senior Professor in the Department. Many benefi
 KRAFT-Norman. On Feb. 21, 1998. Beloved and devoted husband of Diane. Father of Zina and Mark, father-in-law of Matthew and Shawna, grandfather of Alex, Jesse and Nicole, devoted brotherin-law, uncle and great uncle. Here was a man with a heart filled with the gift of love, the precious abi
 REFF-Benjamin F., M.D. Feb. 2, 1998 at the age of 90. Devoted and beloved father of Albert A. Reff and Hariette Wittenberg Saturn, grandfather of Joshua Wittenberg and Jacqueline Saturn. A maverick and compassionate physician who chartered his own course and whose lust for life was an examp
 RIBICOFF-Senator Abraham A. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Senator Abraham Ribicoff. Eminent statesman and distinguished national leader, Senator Ribicoff made a difference in the lives of mill
 ROBBINS-Bernard, M.D. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice. Loving brother of Dr. Edward Robbins. Services 1 P.M., Wednesday at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. ROBBINS-Barnard, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family expresses its deep sorrow over the 
 ROBISON-James E. He flew (63 missions in W.W. II), he soared, skied, golfed, traveled, worked and gave. Generous to extreme, he sought no gratitude. He was one of a kind where sadly few will follow. A Friend       
 ROTHSTEIN-Joseph. On Feb. 21, following a long and courageous struggle with multiple sclerosis at home with his family. Devoted husband of Gale. Loving father of Caron Siegel and Jay Rothstein. Adoring and proud grandfather of Ian and Todd Siegel. Dear brother of Raphael. Son of the late Fa
 SACKS-Dr. William. On February 22, 1998. Beloved husband of Irene Sacks. Father of David Sacks of Ottawa, Judi Sacks of Morris Plains, NJ, Elaine Rust of Upper Montclair, NJ and Patricia Sacks of Lake Stockholm, NJ. Brother of Gertrude Sack and Harry Sack. Grandfather of Christine and Emily
 SCHWARTZ-Sarah. On February 22, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Devoted mother of Robert and Martin. Beloved mother-in-law of Susan and Enid. Cherished grandmother of Amy Tanenbaum, Eric, Jonathan and Adam Schwartz. Much adored great grandmother of Mitchell and Jeffrey. Services were
 SPIRO-Perry. On February 22, 1998. Devoted husband of Rita, loving father of Carolyn Spiro Cannata and Gregory Cannata, and Edward Spiro and Ellen Schwartz. Adoring grandfather of Alison, Sara, Matthew, and Robert. Caring brother of Benjamin. Former principal of JHS 135, Bronx. His was a li
 TANNER-Frederick C., Jr. Of Greenwich, CT. On February 23. Survived by his wife Dorelle Moulton Tanner, daughters Alexandra Tanner and Fredericka Tanner, stepson Vincent Andreus, 3 grandsons and three step-grandchildren. Brother of Ogden Tanner and Jane Trimingham. Graduate of Hotchkiss and
 THOMPSON-Robert I. Research Frontiers Incorporated notes with great sadness the death of our Executive Vice President, Director and good friend, Robert I. Thompson, on Saturday, February 21, 1998. Mr. Thompson was an inventor on many patents relating to devices for the control of light. He 
 ZEHNER-Earl E. Died early Friday, February 20th, after a short illness. A resident of Manhattan for many years, he was a longtime member of the Art Students League and of the Church of the Healing Christ where a memorial service will be held Sunday, March 1st. He is survived by one niece an
 Ross Wetzsteon, a longtime editor at The Village Voice who helped create the Obie Awards for Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway theater and was for 28 years the chairman and host of the annual event, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan after heart surgery. He was 65 and liv
 Sir Francis Harry Hinsley, a British historian and authority on wartime intelligence and naval warfare, died on Feb. 16 in Cambridge, England. He was 79 and had been associated with St. John's College, Cambridge University, since his student days. He was an undergraduate at St. John
 Donald Stuart Russell, a former Governor of South Carolina, former United States Senator and a Federal judge for more than 30 years, died on Sunday, his 92d birthday, at his home in Spartanburg, S.C. When Mr. Russell was elected Governor in 1962, he startled many supporters by invit
 George S. Leonard, a former Washington trial lawyer and Justice Department official during the Eisenhower Administration, died on Feb. 16 at Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 86 and lived in Alexandria. Mr. Leonard died of congestive heart failure, his daughter Jennifer 
 Henny Youngman, the King of the One-Liners, who implored his audiences for more than six decades to ''take my wife -- please,'' died yesterday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 91 years old and lived on West 55th Street in Manhattan. Mr. Youngman had been hospit
 Herb Scharfman, a sports photographer for International News Photos and Sports Illustrated, died last Saturday in Scottsdale (Ariz.) Memorial Hospital. He was 86. Mr. Scharfman, a native of Chicago, was a motorcycle messenger for International News Photos in New York and took pictur
 Mohammad T. Mehdi, an outspoken critic of Israel who was often quoted in the press and also spoke on radio and television, died on Monday. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Mehdi collapsed in the foyer of a midtown Manhattan office building, his family said, and Paul Giffone of 
 ARMANIE-Raymond. Artist, photographer, 1939-1998. Beloved son of Edith, brother of George, father of Kevin, Raymond, Rodney, Nicole, Amber, and Lauren. Dear friend to many who loved him. Memorial service Sat., Feb. 28, 1-4. Lasher's Funeral Home, 100 Tinker St. (Rte 212) Woodstock, NY.     
 BIRNBAUM-Andor Jack Birnbaum, passed away in Jerusalem this past Friday evening. Shiva is being observed in Raanana, Great Neck and Manhattan. David Birnbaum, his mother Rhoda, and sister Eve will all be at the Manhattan Shiva after 4PM Thursday, February 26. The Manhattan Shiva address is 
 CAMPBELL-Patrick J., 79. Former General President of The United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America. Died Feb. 21, 1998 in Palm City, Florida. He is survived by his wife Catherine, two sons, Patrick and Kevin, daughter Cynthia and six grandchildren. Viewing at Higgins Funeral H
 CORY-Christopher B. Of Boston died in the China Airlines crash Taipei, Taiwan, February 16, 1998. He is survived by his father Dr. Joseph P. Cory, his mother Janet A. Burbank Cory, two sisters Denise A. Hubbard, Diana M. Cory and one niece Olivia Seymour. A memorial service will be held on 
 DUNTON-H. Donald, M.D. The Executive Committee, faculty, staff and candidates of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, express our deepest sorrow over the death of our colleague, H. Donald Dunton. He was a distinguished training and supervising analyst at 
 HOLTZMAN-Stuart A. A quintessential mensch taken from us much too soon. He touched our lives and taught us so much. He will be missed and never forgotten. Elizabeth and Joel Lieberman       
 MILLER-Theodore R. The staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center notes with sorrow the passing of their dear colleague Dr. Theodore Miller, a pioneering surgical oncologist. Dr. Miller joined the staff of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases in 1947. From 1964 to 1972 he w
 RIBICOFF-Senator Abraham A. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Senator Abraham Ribicoff. Eminent statesman and distinguished national leader, Senator Ribicoff made a difference in the lives of mill
 ROBBINS-Barnard H., M.D. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Barnard H. Robbins, M.D., devoted husband of the late Beatrice Goldstein Robbins. His compassion and concern for those less fortunate will live on in the generous gifts he 
 SOKOLOFF-Noel Nikolai. Age 74. In San Francisco on February 21, 1998. He is survived by companion William Vitale, brother Martin, children Julia, Katie and Andrew Sokoloff, and four grandchildren. Noel was born in Cleveland, OH December 27, 1923, the son of famed orchestral conductor Nikola
 Alfred Terlizzi, board chairman of Capezio/Ballet Makers and an unassuming friend to performers and other dance professionals, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 58 and also lived in Wayne, N.J. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Jane Remer, director of the
 Ju Tang Chu, a retired chairman of the Shanghai Commercial Bank, now based in Hong Kong, and the Shanghai Commercial and Savings Bank, now based in Taipei, Taiwan,  died on Feb. 9 in a Hong Kong hospital. He was 97 and lived in Hong Kong. Mr. Chu graduated from St. John's University
 CHRISTENFELD-Paul. February 24, 1998, in his eighty-eighth year. Beloved husband of Ruth and the late Renee. Cherished father of Janine and Peter Lindquist, and Alan and Bonnie Christenfeld. Proud grandfather of Randall, Robert, Noah and Seth. Devoted brother of Adele Golbey, Stanley, and t
 COHEN-Samuel J., 90, on Feb. 24, 1998, in Baltimore, Md. Husband of Marie; father of Elaine (Leonard) Wurzel; grandfather of Mark (Ellen), Larry (Martha), and greatgrandfather of Jill, Max and Greg; brother of Esther, Molly, Morris, Gussie, Zelda. He will be lovingly remembered forever. Con
 DUNTON-Harlow Donald, M.D. Esteemed colleague, Harlow Donald Dunton died on February 21, 1998. His clinical and pedagogic contributions to the Department of Pediatrics have been legion. He helped train two generations of pediatric residents and nurses in child psychology and psychoanalytic 
 EIDELSBERG-Robert. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Tuesday, February 24, 1998. He will be missed. Services will be held on Friday, February 27, at 11 A.M., at Temple Beth El, 333 S.W. 4th Ave., Boca Raton,
 GILBRIDE-Gerard A. Of North White Plains, NY on Feb. 22, 1998. Former Assistant Dean, Brooklyn Law School. Husband of Mary (nee Maloney) Gilbride. Father of Rod and Edward F.X. Gilbride, Jayne Bauer, Christine Gilbride, Grace Hottinger, Nancy Conforti, Mary Richards, Betsy DeSoye, Joan Shea
 KOMAROW-Robert S., 72. Of Westport, died Tuesday, February 24th, 1998 at Bridgeport Hospital. Mr. Komarow earned a Bachelor's Degree in Engineering from the Cooper Union. He subsequently earned two Master's Degrees from Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute and New York University. A resident of W
 LEWIS-Edward R. Beloved husband of Constance, passed away at his villa in Round Hill, Jamaica, on Feb. 21, 1998. Memorial service at Christ Methodist Church, 60th Street and Park Avenue, Saturday February 28 at 1 P.M. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to The Multiple Sclerosis Socie
 NEALON-Thomas F., Jr., M.D. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Thomas F. Nealon, Jr., M.D., a life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly
 RUSSELL-Harvey. Beloved colleague and friend. We will miss his wise counsel. Wilder Settlement Panel       
 YOUNGMAN-Henny. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved Friar and Friend, Henny Youngman. Henny brought the gift of laughter into the Friars Monastery daily through his quips, one-liners and unique take on the world around him. 
 Jo Floyd, the former chairman of Christie's International, died on Feb. 20 in a hospital in London. He was 74 and had cancer, a colleague said. Mr. Floyd's career at Christie's began in 1947, when he took a job at the front counter in the auction house's principal London salesroom, 
 John A. Blum, who spent a long career as an advertising and public relations executive with R. H. Macy & Company, died on Tuesday in Colebrook, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Colebrook. The cause of death remained undetermined. Mr. Blum was found dead in his car after the vehicle ran 
 Leonardo Nole, a longtime postal worker who achieved a measure of immortality simply by standing nude on one foot and pretending to fly, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Sacramento, Calif. He was 91 and the model for the famous titan-sized statue of Prometheus at the Rockefeller Center s
 BERNHEIMER-Charles. Ph.D. February 21, 1998 at age 55 in Berkeley, CA. Professor of French and former Chair of the Comparative Literature Program at The University of Pennsylvania, devoted teacher, esteemed colleague and friend, beloved brother, son and husband. Authored or edited five scho
 CARRELL-Russell. Of Salisbury Ct. Russell brought life and vitality into the world of antiques. A Russell Carrell Show guaranteed both the collector and the antiques dealer that this was an event of high standards. His shows had a ''special'' look and feel. For over four decades, he was a f
 ELIAS-Sylvan H. The members of Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard, P.C., their associates and employees, mourn the passing of Sylvan H. Elias, a founding member of the firm. He was a superb lawyer, a good friend, and a kind and gentle man. Services will be held Sunday, March 1, at 12:15 PM
 GARSON-Arthur. Devoted husband of Patricia, loving father of Susan Taylor, Thomas Garson, Kathleen Frank and Arthur Garson, Jr, proud grandfather of Whitney Taylor, Devin Taylor, Tag, Michael, Lauren and Kathleen Garson, Holly Youngwood, and fond great-grandfather of Patric Taylor Moores. V
 HIRSCHEL-Louis. Died February 25, 1998 in Sharon, CT, at the age of 83 years young. His brother Arthur Hirschel of Florida survives him. Additionally, his daughters Yvette and her husband David Smith of River Vale, N.J., Myrnaand Nat Yagoda of Fort Lee, N.J., and his son Marc and his wife P
 JORGEN-Bob. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and advisor, Bob Jorgen, former Acting Director and Board Member. His help to us in difficult times was wise and invaluable. The Board and Staff of Family Dynamics       
 KANE-Rose. Abraham Allen and his son Philip and his wife Laura mourn the passing of Abe's beloved longtime companion Rose.       
 NEALON-Thomas Francis, Jr., M.D. A resident of Greenwich, CT., died Feb. 23, 1998, one day before his seventy-eighth birthday. Dr. Nealon was a retired Professor of Surgery with dual faculty appointments at New York University School of Medicine and at New York Medical College. He served as
 Dr. Robert E. Gould, a psychoanalyst who specialized in treating social outcasts, died on Wednesday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was brain and lung cancer, said his wife, the novelist Lois Gould. Dr. Gould was a 
 Allen B. Morgan, a former chairman and chief executive of First Tennessee Bank, died on Monday at the Allen Morgan Health Center of the Trezevant Manor retirement community in Memphis. He was 89. The cause was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the family said. Mr. Morgan join
 ADELMAN-Milton H., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Department of Anesthesiology of New York University Medical Center and the entire community of the New York University School of Medicine wish to express our profound sorrow on the passing of our esteemed colleague, Milton H. Adelman, on 
 BROFMAN-Henry. February 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Pearl for 64 years. Devoted father of Dr. Jerelyn Brofman and Faith Block. Loving grandfather of Debra Sue Goldberg and Heidi Levine, and great-grandfather of Barry Leonard Goldberg. Donations in his memory can be made to the Diabetes Ass
 GARSON-Arthur. The Board of Trustees and members of the Oceanbeach Club note with great sadness the death of longtime member, past President and dear friend Arthur Garson. Our condolences go out his wife Patricia and their children Tim, Tom, Susan, and Kathy. Sandy Paskin, President Laurie 
 GOULD-Robert, MD. The faculty and staff of the department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science at New York Medical College note with sadness the passing of Dr. Robert Gould, our friend and esteemed colleague. Dr Gould was an exemplary teacher in the medical school and a respected clinician 
 LEWIS-Edward. The passing of Ed Lewis is noted with sorrow. A longtime associate, good friend and able consultant in the real estate field. He will surely be missed. With deep sympathy, Sarah Korein       
 LIBERT-Orion J. Colonel, USAF (Ret). On February 17 at St. Joseph's Retirement Community, Lauderdale Lakes, Florida. Born in Madison, WI., on April 8, 1901 Col. Libert was a 1928 graduate of Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service. Col. Libert served abroad with the 8th Air Force 
 MILLER-Sidney M. The employee of L.V. Myles Inc. express their sincere sorrow at the passing of our beloved chairman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Barbara, his sons, Paul, Bruce, Eric and Adam, his daughter-in-laws, Debby, Sharon, Cheryl, and June, and his grandchildren, 
 NEALON-Thomas F., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Auxiliary, Medical Staff & Administration of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. A member of the Saint Vincent's staff since 1968, Dr. Nealon formerly
 RAND-Samuel. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Judith Schindler, Assoc. Rabbi       
 SCHIENBERG - Barney. Loving and devoted husband of Charlotte; father of Mark and Paul; daughter-in-law, Candida, brother of Kate, Joe, Abe and Harry, mourn his passing on February 25, 1998 while vacationing in Sarasota, FL. Barney was a caring relative and steadfast friend and will be remem
 SIEGEL-Stewart. Senior Technical Editor of Fleet Owner Magazine passed away February 11, 1998. He will be sorely missed by his wife, Leslie (nee Sokolow); his son, Russell and daughter-inlaw Elise; his granddaughter, Erin; his brother, George.       
 WILLIS-Everett I., of Rye Brook, New York, February 27th. Beloved husband of Margaret, loving father of Everett I. Willis, Jr. and Robert F. Willis, grandfather of Katherine E. Willis and Evan Charles Willis. Also survived by his sister, Lonna Chapman. Mr. Willis was a retired senior partne
 WU-William Iu-Liang, age 85, of Westport, CT., died Wednesday, February 25, 1998 in CT. Survivors include his loving wife, Jeannine; his son, Norman Wu, of Orlinda, CA; his daughter Suzanne WuBliss, of Seattle, WA; four grandchildren; Lori and William Wu, and Michael and Erica Bliss; and tw
 Russell Carrell, a manager of charity antiques shows across the country for three decades, most notably the Winter Antiques Show at the Seventh Regiment Armory on Manhattan's East Side, died on Feb. 19 at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Lake Worth, Fla., after an emergency airlift from his Car
