 Alan M. Voorhees, a prominent transportation engineer and city planner whose work helped give rise to the Interstate highway system in the United States, died on Dec. 18 in Richmond, Va. Mr. Voorhees, who was also an entrepreneur and philanthropist, was 83 and made his home in Alexandria, V
 Julius Wile, a noted wine importer and educator, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 91. His death followed a long illness, according to his son, Andrew. Mr. Wile's life centered on food and wine. Until he retired in 1978 as co-chief executive officer of Ju
 BARTOS--Armand Phillip. Of NYC died at his home on December 29 at the age of 95. Husband of Celeste, father of Adam, Armand Jr., Mary and Michael, stepfather of Jonathan and Jennifer Altman (deceased), grandfather of Nur, Adrian, Justine, Catherine, Peter and John Bartos and of six great gr
 BERNSTEIN--Arthur F. Died on December 27, 2005. Born in Brooklyn, New York June 18, 1933. Arthur was president of Quantum Sportswear, a manufacturer of golf and tennis, and a division of Milady Bra and Corset Co. Inc. He is survived by his loving and devoted wife Velma, his sons David and S
 GAVIS--Donald J. We mourn the passing of our very dear friend of over 40 years. Wise, thoughtful, devoted, a true renaissance man. Our sincere condolences to his beloved Rose, his children and grandchildren. We will miss you. Doris and Mike Saranga       
 HUTCHISON -- William Robert. Of Cambridge, MA, died on December 16, 2005 at the age of 75. Dr. Hutchison taught American religious history at Harvard Divinity School for 32 years. He leaves his wife Virginia (Quay), a sister Mary Fletcher, 4 children, and ten grandchildren. Services will be
 KAPNER--Frederick. An editor for the Financial Times, Frederick, age 45, died suddenly on December 29, 2005, in London. Beloved husband of Paola, father of Julia and Sveva, and devoted son of Catherine and Stanley H. Kapner of Manhattan. A graduate of Lycee Francais and Columbia University,
 MANNIX--John F. December 29. Born Brooklyn, New York, February 18, 1930. Owner of Wilton Motors Corp., Wilton, CT. Former Connecticut State Representative and Chairman of the State Board of Education. Survived by his wife Helen, eight children and 15 grandchildren. Wake at Our Lady of Fatim
 MURREN--John Robert, M.D. 1958-2005 December 28, 2005. John Robert Murren, M.D., 47, renowned medical oncologist, researcher, associate professor of medicine at Yale University and founder of Nevada Cancer Institute succumbed to a noble battle with melanoma on December 28, 2005 at the Natio
 PARKINSON--John III. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of its great Trustee John Parkinson. John, who enjoyed a long and successful career as a banker, joined the MoMA Board of Trustees in 1976. For almost thirty years John served brilliantly in varying ca
 SCHNEIDER--Howard. Respected elder statesman, friend, and mentor, he will be missed by all fortunate enough to have known him. He had a great sense of humor and was one of the most caring people we've known. His partners, Robert Schecter & Alan Yoss and All his friends at Schneider, Schecte
 SEEDORF--Henry Warren, CSP. On December 26, 2005 at age 85. Born in Rockville Centre, New York, he met the Paulist Fathers at St. Paul the Apostle Church and was ordained May 3, 1949. A gentle and caring priest he served in Mobile, Alabama, Boston, MA, Berkeley, CA, San Francisco, CA, Portl
 SMITH--David Anthony. Age 65, died of lung cancer in New York City on December 24. He is survived by his wife, Mary R. Smith, and his two daughters, Annie and Sarah Smith, all of New York. David's career in international development began when he and his wife were transformed by their exper
 STEINER--Alfred (Alfie). 82 of Boca Raton, FL passed away on December 23. Owner of Al Steiner's, a well known steakhouse in Cedarhurst, LI and past president of the New York State Restaurant Association. He is survived by his beloved wife Lenore, sons Stephen, Clifford and Gary, grandchildr
 STERN--Howard S. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Howard Stern, whose philanthropic vision helped strengthen the Jewish community on Long Island and beyond. Howard's sense of social responsibility illuminated his volunteer effort
 ZABRISKIE--Philip Tyler, b. March 6, 1928 in Alexandria, Virginia, d. December 25 in his New York home. Graduate of Groton School, Princeton University (Salutarian), Virginia Theological Seminary; Jung Institute, Zurich. Rhodes Scholar at Baliol College, Oxford. Held offices in the National
 GUETTEL--Charles L. United World Federalist, remembered for lifelong efforts to bring his Propsosal For The Peaceful Settlement of Disputes to the United Nations. Charlie died January 1, 2005. May his dream come true. For family: clguettel@webhart.net       
 BARTOS - Armand. The Trustees and staff of The New York Public Library deeply mourn the loss of our great and good friend, Armand Bartos. A brilliant architect and the beloved husband of Celeste Bartos, one of the Library's greatest benefactors, Mr. Bartos was also the father of Library Tru
 HEWITT -- Bernard (Pops). Formerly of Hewlett, NY, and Boca Raton, FL, passed away December 29, 2005. Loving husband to the late Florence (Flops), loving brother to Albert Hersh, loving father to his three children, 10 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. Services to be held privately.
 RAY--Talton F. Editor and publisher, The Francis Press, age 66. Died peacefully at home in Washington, DC, on December 31, 2005, after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Beloved husband of Lilli for 42 years, he is also survived by daughters Justina and Nicola, grandson Kai, son-in-law 
 STERN--Howard S. A devoted and loving husband, father and grandfather. Compassionate and generous, he gave more than he took. A good man. Linda, Rachel, Seth, Leba, Peter, Trisha and Minnie       
 Truman K. Gibson Jr., who fought racial discrimination in the Army in World War II as a high-level adviser in the War Department and later became a powerful pro boxing promoter, died Dec. 23 in Chicago. He was 93. His death was announced by Unity Funeral Parlors of Chicago. 
 CARY--Frank Taylor. Died peacefully at his home in Darien, CT on Sunday, January 1, 2006. Wonderful, beloved husband of Anne Curtis Cary. Devoted father to Marshall, Bryan, Steven and Laura, and grandfather to his 12 grandchildren. He was a towering source of strength and inspiration to his
 FRIZELL--Bernard. Died at home peacefully at age 92, January 1, 2006. Survived by his two sons, John and Steve, daughters-in-law Barbara Ehlers and Kathryn Smith, grandchildren, Sam, Sabina, Rachel and Joshua.       
 L'HOMMEDIEU--Harvey J. At home in Sea Cliff, NY, formerly of Great Neck, NY on his 82nd birthday on January 1, 2006. During WW II, Harvey served as a 1st Lt. Bombardier Navigator in the US Army Air Corps. Harvey retired from Paine Webber as an Administrative Manager in 1995 after a life-lon
 ROSS--Kurt P. Lifetime resident of New York City and Managing Director of Ross & Lawrence Public Relations passed away on December 9, 2005. He will be remembered for his outstanding professional capabilities, acute intelligence, sophisticated wit, distinctive personal style and unrelenting 
 SCHWARTZ--Stuart G. On January 1, 2006. A piercing intellect, a loving spirit, a rock of support and of selfless devotion to his family. Beloved husband for 50 years to Doris, wonderful father of Amy, Peter and Gregory, adored grandfather of Alexander, Daniel, Miriam and Emily, devoted brot
 FINKELSTEIN--Seymour. Passed away on January 2, 2006. Beloved: Husband of the late Hermine (Bubbles), partner of Herta Gordon; father of Andrew, Charles, Robert and Adam, father-inlaw of Daniela, Cathy, Sandy and Patti; grandfather of Dylan, Harrison, Tyler, Greg & Kylie; and to all his dev
 Frank Wilkinson, a Los Angeles housing official who lost his job in the Red Scare of the early 1950's and later became one of the last two people jailed for refusing to tell the House Un-American Activities Committee whether he was a Communist, died Monday in Los Angeles. He was 91.        
 DWYER--Joseph W., 92, of Huntington Station, on January 3, 2006. Predeceased by his beloved wife, Lillian. loving father of Joseph, Mary (Thomas) Rabone and Kathleen. Visitng Wednesday and Thursday 2-5 and 7-9 at M.A. Connell Funeral Home, 935 New York Ave, Huntington, Station. Service Thur
 GERBNER - George. The Center for Digital Democracy mourns the passing of Prof. George Gerbner, one of the world's leading communications scholars. He will be missed by friends and colleagues. Our condolences to his family.       
 KEIDEL--Richard J. From our family at Gassman & Keidel PC, it is with deep sorrow that we mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, our devoted helmsman and our trusted friend, Richard James Keidel. Richard is survived by his loving wife, Marion, his three precious sons, Richard, Robert 
 SCHWARTZ--Stuart G. A good neighbor and friend. We, at 450, admired his love and devotion to Doris. We will miss him very much. His devotion lifted the spirits of all around him.       
 SOLOMON--Sidney R. Of Detroit, New York, and Palm Beach died peacefully at home on January 1, 2006, at age 94. He was the beloved husband to Beatrice for 65 years; loving father & fatherin-law of Susan and Bruce Waterfall and Steven and Lauri Solomon; adored and adoring grandfather of Spenc
 STERN -- Howard S. The Board of Directors, Executives, and entire staff of AngioDynamics Inc., mourn the loss of Howard S. Stern, co-founder, former chairman of the board of directors, and current director, who passed away at the age of seventyfour after losing his battle with brain cancer.
 VERNON--Timothy M. Of New York City and Briarcliff Manor died December 28, 2005. He was an accomplished musician, composer, conductor and scholar, as well as Music Director of St. Mary the Virgin Episcopal Church in Chappaqua, NY, and Director of the Coral Arts Society of Westchester. Born 
 WILKINSON - Frank. The American Civil Liberties Union mourns the passing of an esteemed colleague and staunch defender of civil liberties, Frank Wilkinson. For three decades, Frank was subjected to an FBI campaign of surveillance and harassment, spearheaded by J. Edgar Hoover himself. In 19
 FINKELSTEIN - Seymour. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved longtime member and former board member, Seymour Finkelstein. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his family. Earle Yaffa, P
 McCARTHY -- Lawrence F. The Partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing of Lawrence F. McCarthy, the brother of our esteemed partner, William J. McCarthy. We have great admiration & respect for Bill & his family. Over the years of our association with Bill,
 Sheik Maktoum bin Rashid al-Maktoum, emir of Dubai and prime minister and vice president of the United Arab Emirates, died Wednesday in Australia. He was 62. No official cause of death was given, but Australian and Arab news media reported that he had suffered heart problems. His bo
 ARENSTEIN--Jack. Beloved husband of Renee, devoted father of Seth, and Dr. Michael (Laura), adored grandfather of Ellie, and caring brother of Lila. A World War II veteran, he was the first to teach English on NYC television. He was a mentor to many NYC teachers, and was an unforgettable st
 BARTOS -- Armand. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of Armand Bartos. In 1965, he teamed up with Frederick Kiesler to design the landmark Shrine of the Book, and recently helped oversee every detail of 
 BERNHEIMER -- Alan W., PhD. Died Tuesday, January 3rd. Professor Emeritus and Adjunct Professor at NYU School of Medicine. Survived by his wife Harriet, son Alan Jr. (Melissa), granddaughter Lily and many nieces, nephews and friends. BERNHEIMER--Alan. Dr. B, you were a quiet friend,
 DAMASHEK--Philip M. On January 3, 2006. Beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Alan, Jonathan and Harris and father-in-law of Nicole and Jennifer. Dear brother of Sandra. Services Thursday 11AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. DAMASHEK--Philip M. The Respect fo
 DELENA--David C. Brown Harris Stevens mourns the untimely passing of our friend and colleague, David C. Delena on December 30, 2005. David is survived by his spouse, Pamela, and children, Rebecca, David Jr., Eliza and Sarah, as well as his father, Jeremiah, and sister, Beth Ragnetti. Funera
 ELISHIS--David. A great light has been extinguished. A giant in faith, goodness and love of his family. Our sincerest nichumim to Brenda, Isser, Sara, Avi and their spouses and children. He will be missed and always remembered by the entire Reishit family. Rav Jay, Rav Ari, Rav Elie, Rav Do
 FELDMAN--Dr. Martin. The Department of Neurology at Columbia University Medical Center mourns the death of our esteemed colleague, of Martin Feldman, on December 28th. Dr. Feldman was Clinical Professor of Neurology at Columbia and Chief of Neurology at New York-Presbyterian Hospital's Alle
 FISCHER--The Honorable Harold H., 85. Formerly of Somers. Died on December 23 in Tucson, AZ. Survived by daughter Susan of Del Mar, CA and son John of Muskego, WI. In lieu of a memorial, donations may be sent in his name to the progressive cause of one's choice.       
 GALLIGAN--Arthur J. Of Alexandria, VA, on January 4, 2006, age 79. Beloved husband of Maura (nee Crowe), loving father of Jessica Goldsmith (James), Zachary (Ling), Gregory and John. Cherished grandfather of Connor, Brian and Katherine Goldsmith. A founding partner of Dickstein Shapiro & Ga
 GREENFIELD--Robert S. 86 of Plantation, FL. passed away January 1, 2006 in Florida. Beloved husband of Leonore. Devoted father of Dr. Andrew (Linda) Greenfield and Melissa (Dr. Arthur) Rubin. Loving grandfather of Dani, Samantha, Gail (Bill) Carter and Donna. Proud great grandfather of Dani
 GROVEMAN -- Aaron. Died peacefully at home Wednesday morning, after a long illness at the age of 78. Despite adverse circumstances, Aaron maintained a most positive attitude toward life. Beloved husband to Marilyn Astor Groveman. Loving father of Jane and Nancy. Proud grandfather to Alex an
 HALPERN--Mortimer (Morty). Passed away January 3, 2006 at the age of 96 of pneumonia. Well known legendary Broadway Production Stage Manager. He did over 40 Broadway shows starting in 1944 (Sing Out Sweet Land) thru 1990 (Century Club). He worked 23 years with Guy Lombardo (Jones Beach Thea
 MALOY--Laurence. Of Santa Fe, New Mexico, passed on peacefully on December 30, 2005 at Saint Vincent's Hospital, in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He was 69 years old. He leaves a legacy of boundless love, devotion and admiration for the arts, which throughout his wonderful life served as the focal 
 SCHMELTZ--Dr. Irwin. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of a widely respected member of the Monsey Jewish community who, with his beloved wife, Diane, was admired by all who know their family. He was the father of the late Rabbi Benjamin Schmeltz, and Jonathan D.
 SCHOEMAKER--Dr. Hubert J.P. Age 55, of Paoli, PA, formerly of Devon, PA, passed away on January 1, 2006, in his home. Dear husband of Anne Faulkner Schoemaker, dear father of Maureen Schoemaker of Berwyn, Pa., Katherine Schoemaker of Conshohocken, PA, Anne Schoemaker of Philadelphia, PA, an
 SCHWARZ--Dr. Ralph J. Passed away January 2, at the age of 83, after a long and valiant battle with Parkinson's. He spent his entire career as professor of electrical engineering at Columbia University School of Engineering and Applied Science, where he held the Thayer Lindsley Chair. Durin
 SOLOMON--Sidney R. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Sidney R. Solomon and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Beatrice and other members of his family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 STERN--Howard S. The Board of Directors, Executives and entire staff of EZ-EM, Inc. mourn the loss of Howard S. Stern, co-founder, director and Chairman Emeritus. Mr. Stern passed away on December 28, 2005 after losing a brave battle with brain cancer. He was 74. Mr. Stern was a pioneer in 
 VISSLAILLI--Joseph T. (Tommy) II, of Sea Cliff, NY on January 4, 2006. Beloved husband of Franne. Loving father of Derek, Erin, Lauren and Farah. Cherished grandfather of Devin and Alec. Son of Joseph and Jean. He is also survived by his brother Louis (Pam) and many nieces. A beautiful soul
 DI GIUSEPPE--Enrico. New York City Opera mourns the passing of our good friend and colleague, Enrico Di Giuseppe, a leading tenor with our company for twenty years. From his 1963 debut as Michele in ''The Saint of Bleecker Street'' he provided us with many memorable evenings in the theater.
 McCARTHY -- Lawrence F. The Partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing of Lawrence F. McCarthy, the brother of our esteemed partner, William J. McCarthy. We have great admiration & respect for Bill & his family. Over the years of our association with Bill,
 Emmett Leith, a scientist who took the concept of the hologram and added the technology of the laser to help create three-dimensional photography, died on Dec. 23 at a hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 78. The cause was an internal hemorrhage, said Kim Leith, his daughter.        
 Enrico Di Giuseppe, an American tenor who sang for many years with both the New York City and Metropolitan Operas, died on Dec. 31 in Voorhees, N.J. He was 73. The cause was small cell cancer, said his wife, Lorna. With his light and ringing voice and a notable upper extensi
 Frank T. Cary, the chairman and chief executive of International Business Machines during the tumultuous 1970's when I.B.M. confronted antitrust lawsuits, rising competition from Japanese manufacturers and the dawn of the personal computer, died Sunday. He was 85. He died of unknown
 BRESLER--George, 81. On January 5, 2006. Husband of the late Dorothy (nee Sands) Bresler. Father of Jonathan Bresler, Jean Bresler, Dr. Priscilla Bresler, Margaret Bresler and Elizabeth Peck. Grandfather of eight. Funeral service Sunday, 12 noon, Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY. Int
 CONNERAT--George H.Formerly of Essex, CT died peacefully on January 4, 2006 at the age of 94. For the past two years he resided in Berke ley Heights, NJ. Mr. Connerat the second son of Robert Vincent and Katherine was born on August 30, 1911 in Atlanta, GA. He was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate 
 DAMASHEK--Philip M. The New York Law School community mourns the passing of Philip M. Damashek, longtime member of our Board of Trustees, and managing partner of Schneider, Kleinick, Weitz, Damashek & Shoot (The Cochran Firm), at one time the largest personal injury law firm in Manhattan. A
 GALLIGAN--Arthur J. Of Alexandria, VA, on January 4, 2006, age 79. Beloved husband of Maura (nee Crowe), loving father of Jessica Goldsmith (James), Zachary (Ling), Gregory and John. Cherished grandfather of Connor, Brian and Katherine Goldsmith. A founding partner of Dickstein Shapiro & Ga
 KUHN--Robert C. With deep sorrow, Horace Mann School mourns the loss of Robert C. Kuhn '47, visionary business leader and stalwart and caring friend of this institution. His thoughtful involvement for over 50 years--as a committed alumnus, devoted parent, distinguished Trustee and beloved g
 FINKELSTEIN--Aaron. The officers, Board of Directors, & staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Aaron ''Bill'' Finkelstein, father of Ray Finkelstein, a cherished friend of the New York Jewish community who profoundly impacts millions of lives through his dedication and sup
 McCARTHY -- Lawrence F. The Partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing of Lawrence F. McCarthy, the brother of our esteemed partner, William J. McCarthy. We have great admiration & respect for Bill & his family. Over the years of our association with Bill,
 Barry Cowsill, a member of the popular 1960's and early 70's singing family the Cowsills, was identified Tuesday as among the dead nearly four months after he disappeared when Hurricane Katrina flooded this city. He was 51. Mr. Cowsill's body, recovered Dec. 28 from the Chartres Str
 Hugh Thompson, an Army helicopter pilot who rescued Vietnamese civilians during the My Lai massacre, reported the killings to his superior officers in a rage over what he had seen, testified at the inquiries and received a commendation from the Army three decades later, died yesterday in Al
 Lou Rawls, the smooth-voiced, enduring singing star whose career traced a line from gospel to jazz and pop, died early yesterday morning at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his longtime manager and publicist, David Brokaw. Suc
 LUBLINER--Murray. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our longtime member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Phyllis, their children, Nancy and David, and their loved ones. May his memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, Pr
 FINKELSTEIN--Seymour. Sy was always our favorite ''uncle'': warm, affectionate, playful, and loving. He lit up the room whenever he arrived. Our sympathies are with Rob, Andy, Chuck, Adam, and all of the family. We will miss Sy forever. Robb and Sara Allan       
 Rod Dedeaux, who coached the University of Southern California to a record 11 College World Series championships and sent some 60 players to the major leagues, died Thursday in Glendale, Calif. He was 91. The cause was complications of a stroke, U.S.C. said. Dedeaux took the
 Yao Wenyuan, the last surviving member of China's notorious Gang of Four, the powerful group that was blamed for many of the excesses of the Cultural Revolution, died Dec. 23, according to the official New China News Agency. He was 74. The government did not immediately issue a stat
 Archbishop Abuna Yesehaq Mandefro, a leader in the diaspora of the Orthodox Church of Ethiopia who, caught up in the political upheaval at home in the 1990's, split his congregations in the Americas from the mother church in Addis Ababa, died on Dec. 29 in Newark. He was 72 and lived in Uni
 BAIN--Donald J. of Riverdale, NY, formerly of Barnstable, MA and NY, NY on January 3, 2006. He was a kind, gentle man who is survived by his loving family.       
 BENEZRA--Meyer. A brilliant legal and curious mind died December 29, 2005. Devoted son, father and friend, the Brooklyn College and Columbia Law graduate practiced law in NYC for nearly 60 years, most recently at Weisman Celler Spett & Modlin. Steadfast advisor to the Yeshivah of Crown Heig
 BLATMAN--Daniel. DDS. Beloved father of Kaye, Peter, Robert, Linda, Shelley, and Nancy. He showed us endless kindness and always kept us laughing. But mostly he was a devoted husband and is now finally back together with his soulmate, Ellie. He will truly be missed. Services private. Donati
 BOYLE--Stephen G. On January 4, 2006. Beloved husband of Edna (nee Larkin). Devoted father of Edna Boyle-Lewicki, Andrea, Jeanne, and Stephanie Hammer. Also survived by nine grandchildren and his dear brother Philip. Contributions to Missionaries of LaSalette, 915 Maple Ave. Hartford, CT. 0
 CONNERAT--George H. Formerly of Essex, CT died peacefully on January 4, 2006 at the age of 94. For the past two years he resided in Berke ley Heights, NJ. Mr. Connerat the second son of Robert Vincent and Katherine was born on August 30, 1911 in Atlanta, GA. He was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate
 ETTINGER--Joel H. Passed away on December 22, 2005. He was 86 years old. Mr. Ettinger was born in New York City in 1919. He volunteered and served in the Army during WWII. After the war Mr. Ettinger founded Ettinger Advertising Associates Inc. in New York City where he served as president f
 FISCHER--The Honorable Harold H., 85. Formerly of Somers. Died on December 23 in Tucson, AZ. Survived by daughter Susan of Del Mar, CA and son John of Muskego, WI. In lieu of a memorial, donations may be sent in his name to the progressive cause of one's choice.       
 FRIEDMAN--Clifford J. 82, of Kent, CT. Died January 6, 2006, while doing what he loved most, winning a tennis tiebreaker. Mr. Friedman was born May 15, 1923. He had been a full-time resident of Kent since 2000, having been a weekend resident since 1981 while living in Manhattan. Mr. Friedma
 GETOFF--Hyman A. Beloved and respected by many, died December 22, 2005 in his 89th year. Devoted father of Peter, of Mar Vista, Cal and of Tova of N.Y.C. Grandfather of Emily. For many years the husband of Sheila--later divorced. Brother of Hannah (recently deceased) and of Louis, of Sedona
 GOLDBERG--Martin, 71. Of Melville, NY and Delray Beach, FL. passed away on January 3, 2006. He will be deeply missed by his beloved wife of 52 years, Isabel; his children Diana and Ronny Kristall, Bonnie Blueweiss & Craig and Lauren Goldberg; his treasured grandchildren Matthew, Evan, Benja
 HALPERN--Daniel J. 75, beloved husband, father and grandfather, died Wednesday, January 4, at New Milford Hospital. He is survived by his wife, Paula SullivanHalpern, and his children, Fredda Dubuis, Jennifer Rifkin, Robin Wagner, Adam Halpern, Marian Wood, and Steven Halpern. He is also su
 KERESTINE--Joseph J. Died on December 27, 2005 at age 46, at his home in Manhattan. An ardent supporter of cabaret, jazz and music in all its forms, he embraced life expansively and gave us wonderful lessons in how to live life and love ourselves. He will be greatly missed by his partner of
 MORGANSTEIN--Dr. Hiram N. of Fort Lee, NJ. Husband of the late Pearl. Father of Dr. Richard Morganstein and Audrey Morganstein. Fatherin-law of Susan Morganstein. Grandfather of Max. Services Monday, 11:30 A.M. at the New Synagogue of Fort Lee, 1585 Center Avenue, Fort Lee. Contributions to
 MORRISON -- Dr. Walbert ''Bill''. 80. Of Jupiter, FL and NYC died on January 5. Husband of the late Dr. Eleanor Morrison, father of Dr. Leslie Faerstein and Robert ''Mo'' Morrison, beloved grandfather and father-in-law. Donations can be made in his memory to ''Teachers College, Columbia Uni
 PEARCE--Charles A. Husband of Lucy (nee Kapilow), died January 4, 2006 at his residence at The Academy in Boulder, CO, at age 99. He was a wonderful father and father-in-law to three daughters and three sons-in-law: Margaret (Peggy) and Alan Frank of Livermore, CA, Patricia Jones and Robert
 STERN--Howard S. The Board of Directors, Executives and entire staff of EZ-EM, Inc. mourn the loss of Howard S. Stern, co-founder, director and Chairman Emeritus. Mr. Stern passed away on December 28, 2005 after losing a brave battle with brain cancer. He was 74. Mr. Stern was a pioneer in 
 VAN DAMM--Joseph B., 92. Formerly of Yonkers, NY, resident of Pompano Beach, FL. passed away on January 1, 2006. After serving in the Navy during WWII, Joe married his high school sweetheart, Lenore and remained in New York. Joe took over the family business and stayed proprietor of ''Salem
 WALLACE--Robert F. December 22, 2005, of pancreatic cancer in Eugene, Oregon. Bob was born in Brooklyn, NY, on October 5, 1934, and graduated from Poly Prep Country Day School. After receiving his BA from Colgate University, he became a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy, serving on the U.S.S. Nor
 WILLIAMS -- Milo Baker. Aged 55. Died December 15, 2005 in Mt. Kisco of liver failure. Longtime resident of Katonah and Old Forge, NY. Graduate of Harvey School, The Gunnery, and Franconia College. He restored Adirondack Guide Boats. Member of the Adirondack League Club, Fort Ticonderoga As
 WOOD--William J. On January 6, senior architect for CUNY until 1992. Father of Elizabeth (William) Mahaney; grandfather of James and Brian; brother of Margaret. Predeceased by his wife Helen M., daughter Maria C., and sister, Helen J. Visiting Sunday, 7-9 PM, and Monday 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at L
 FITZGERALD--William H.G. Who served as Ambassador to Ireland under the first President Bush, died suddenly and peacefully yesterday at the age of 96. He graduated from the US Naval Academy in 1931, attended Harvard Law School, and served in the Navy during WWII, before embarking on a long a
 HANSEN - STURM - Arnold. The Hansen-Sturm family sadly announces the passing of Arnold Hansen-Sturm, 66, of Rhinebeck, NY. Arnold was the second beloved son of Guenter and Dorothy Hansen - Sturm, and beloved brother of Cord, Margaret, Linda, and Robert. Arnold is survived by his five childr
 RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High
 Raoul Bott, a mathematician who made innovative contributions to differential geometry and topology, a field that examines the properties of spaces, died on Dec. 20 in Carlsbad, Calif. He was 82. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Although he began his career studyi
 David E. Rosenbaum, a retired reporter and editor for The New York Times who for more than 35 years wrote about the intersection of politics, economics and government policy with uncommon depth, clarity and a keen eye for the story behind the story, died Sunday. He was 63. His death
 Donald A. Mackay, an artist and illustrator best known for drawing the evolution of Manhattan, died on Dec. 17 in Frederick, Md., where he retired in 1993. He was 91 and formerly lived in Ossining, N.Y. The cause was heart disease, his family said. Mr. Mackay crowned a long 
 Harry Magdoff, who fell in love with Marxist thought at 15 and became an influential socialist economist, author, editor and commentator -- and, some said, a Soviet spy -- died on Jan. 1 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 92. His son, Frederick, announced the death. Mr. M
 BOYLE--Stephen G. On January 4, 2006. Beloved husband of Edna (nee Larkin). Devoted father of Edna Boyle-Lewicki, Andrea, Jeanne, and Stephanie Hammer. Also survived by nine grandchildren and his dear brother Philip. Contributions to Missionaries of LaSalette, 915 Maple Ave. Hartford, CT. 0
 COHEN--Donald, M.D. The Child Analysis Committee of the NY Psychoanalytic Institute mourns the death of our beloved friend and colleague, Donald Cohen. He served as Chair of this Committee for many years and was a beloved teacher, highly respected supervisor and champion of child psychoanal
 DINKES--Linda. Not having had the opportunity to attend Linda's funeral, I send my condolences to Bill Dinkes and his family. Benedict P. Morelli       
 LEONE--L. John, 93. On January 7, 2006. Loving husband of the late Mary. Dearest father of Robert and Russell. Devoted grandad to Allegra and Ursula. Also survived by his sister Josephine Czarnecki. Calling hours at the Ortiz Funeral Home, 4425 Broadway, NYC, on Tuesday, January 10, 3-8 PM.
 POWERS -- Harold James, C.S.P. On January 4, 2006, at age 85. Born in New York City, NY, he met the Paulist Fathers at St. Paul the Apostle Church in NYC, and was ordained May 1, 1948. From campus ministry in Lubbock, Forth Worth, TX,. Morgantown, WV, and parish ministry in Good Shepherd, N
 TUNICK - George. 77, of Pound Ridge, New York died January 7 with his family by his side. He is survived by his wife of 60 years Marilyn, children Howard and Karen, son-in-law Michael Feltman and grandchildren Josh, Jessica and Sara. Textile executive, entrepreneur, athlete and loving husba
 TURNER--David Reuben. On January 6th after a brief illness. Born NYC, December 9, 1915 to Charles and Eva Moscowitz. Mr. Turner was a pioneer of self-study exam and how - to - do - it books, founding Arco Publishing in 1937 and authoring over 300 books. He felt fortunate to have assisted so
 FITZGERALD--William H.G. Who served as Ambassador to Ireland under the first President Bush, died suddenly and peacefully yesterday at the age of 96. He graduated from the US Naval Academy in 1931, attended Harvard Law School, and served in the Navy during WWII, before embarking on a long a
 RIESENBERG--Herbert L. On January 7, 2006. At the age of 86. Beloved husband of Phyllis and the late Roslyn Ruchman Riesenberg. Loving father of Renee and Barry Brandeis, Shelley and Paul Mendelsohn, Bernie Rosenberg, Linda McDonough, Nancy Rosenberg and Robert and Danielle Rosenberg. Cheri
 The Rev. Jon de Cortina Garaigorta, a Jesuit priest who dedicated the last decade to searching for the missing children of El Salvador's brutal civil war, died in mid-December, officials of his organization said Wednesday. He was 71. They said the cause was complications of a stroke
 Theodore H. Bullock, who made wide-ranging studies of sensory and nervous systems in fish and invertebrates and then used his research to explore the evolution of the brain in animals, died on Dec. 20 in San Diego. He was 90. His family confirmed the death. From 1966 to 1982
 William H. Guthman, a prominent antiques dealer who specialized in items of historical and military Americana and helped make them stars of the collecting world, died on Dec. 28 at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Elizabeth Stillinger.
 William F. Haxby, who created the first maps of the ocean floor to be based on satellite measurements of the water's surface and became a master at translating complicated marine data into comprehensible visual displays, died on Wednesday at his home in Westwood, N.J. He was 56. The
 Armand P. Bartos, an architect and philanthropist who, with his wife, Celeste, supported major New York City cultural institutions, died at his home in Manhattan on Dec. 29. He was 95. His death followed several years of illness, said his son Armand Jr. Mr. Bartos's most sig
 Heinrich Harrer, a swashbuckling explorer who told of his magical life of conquering the world's highest peaks and tutoring the young Dalai Lama when Tibet seemed as exotic as Mars, only to have news of his Nazi past mar his final years, died Jan. 7 in Friesach, Austria. He was 93. 
 ADLER--Herbert S.-Tennyson's words ''I am a part of all that I have met,'' are a fitting epitaph for our beloved Herb. All are welcome to attend his memorial service on Tuesday, January 17 at 5PM. Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street & Amsterdam Ave., NYC. Contributions may be made to The
 CAREY--Alan L. January 8. In his 100th year. Loving husband of Jane, father of Barbara and Robert, grandfather of Alexandra, father-in-law of Tim and June. Never lost his sense of humor. Also leaves behind beloved caregiver Julie Fearon, who helped see us all through.       
 CHESWICK--Richard R. The founder of Cheswick Investment and a resident of Darien, CT and Hobe Sound, FL died Sunday, January 8th in Greenwich, CT. Born July 5, 1924, he was the son of Harold Beck Cheswick and Dorcas Louise Cheswick of Rockville Center, NY. After graduation from Southside Hi
 COHEN--Donald, M.D. The officers and members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute mourn the loss of our esteemed member, Dr. Donald Cohen. He was a training and supervising analyst at our Institute and had served as chairman of the Child Analysis Committee. Donald was a grea
 CONNERAT--George H. Formerly of Essex, CT died peacefully on January 4, 2006 at the age of 94. For the past two years he resided in Berke ley Heights, NJ. Mr. Connerat the second son of Robert Vincent and Katherine was born on August 30, 1911 in Atlanta, GA. He was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate
 FRISS--Dan. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Dan Friss of Long Boat Key, Florida. A great and munificent friend of the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, he worked tirelessly to enhance and expand our Sarasota/ Gulf Coast Chapter. 
 KLAUSER--Mark. On January 8, 2006 at age 95. Survived by a sister and several nieces and nephews. He graduated from Brooklyn College and was an Executive at Ohrbach's. The service will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Parkinson's Disease Foundat
 LOGAN--J. Murray, 70. Born in Baltimore, MD, died peacefully at home on January 7, 2006. He leaves his dearly loved daughter, Miss Maria Charlotte Logan. Husband of the late Page Cole Logan, brother of Hugh Logan and the late Margaret Cotter. Brother-in-law of the late Jack Cotter. Uncle of
 MENDELSON--Jerry. At 79, December 28, 2005. He was the son of Sadie and Irving Mendelson. His father remarried Marjorie Weiss when he was 12. In 1953, Jerry married Marilyn, they had three children, Jim, Jane and Susan. He had a vital career in the business of women's shoes. In addition to 
 MILGRIM--Seymour, 77. On January 9 devoted husband of the late Arlene, loving father of Laurence and dear grandfather of Bari. He is also survived by his brother Sidney. Services Thursday January 12 at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'', 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue 11:30 AM. Shiva will 
 O'SULLIVAN - Kevin. WLIW21 New York Public Television mourns the passing of our Board Member, generous supporter and friend, Kevin O'Sullivan. His commitment to educational television through the O'Sullivan Children Foundation enabled us to fulfill our role in the community, and his legacy 
 SABOT--Lawrence M., M.D. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and brother-in-law. He was a selfless, loving, caring man who touched many lives. The love and comfort he brought to his family and friends will be greatly missed. For funeral information, contact Gutterman's, Woodbury. 
 SHORE--William Tilles on January 7, 2006 at age 60 in Phoenix, AZ. after a courageous battle with lung cancer. Loving father of Beth Teles and Michael Shore & fatherin-law of Marc Teles. Proud grandfather of Benyamin, Yaakov & Dovid. Cherished brother of Marylu Simon, Lanny and Jill Shore a
 TREISER--Irwin Jay. Of Queens, New York died on January 6, 2006. He is survived by his beloved wife of 37 years Caren, daughter Jody (Marc) Greenspon, son Rabbi Daniel (Rachel) Treiser, grandchildren Elana and Ethan Treiser and sister Renate (Ephraim) Shatz. A Vice President of Citibank, he
 FRIEDMAN--Clifford. Brooklyn College and the Brooklyn College Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Clifford Friedman, Class of 1948, whose affection for and loyalty to his alma mater was unrivaled. His generosity over decades provided important opportunities for numerous students who othe
 SONDHEIMER -- Manfred Moses Tobias of New York City. Born in Frankfurt, Germany, beloved husband of Ruth (nee Darmstadter), died Sunday at age 91. Survived by his loving children and their spouses Adrian and Fern Sondheimer and Daniela and Steven Klein, adoring grandchildren Barak, Alexa, J
 WALLERSTEIN--Michael. Friends of Nina, David and Lexi, express their deepest condolences to the Wallerstein family on the loss of their beloved Michael. May his name be a blessing. Memorial contributions may be made to Musella Foundation for Brain Tumor Research, in Hewlett, NY, or The Inte
 David S. Kruidenier, a former publisher of The Des Moines Register who devoted much of his post-newspaper career to revitalizing downtown Des Moines, died on Monday in Des Moines. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Kruidenier was a member of the Cowles 
 G. Blakemore Evans, an eminent Elizabethan scholar and editor of the Shakespearean canon, foremost the ''Riverside Shakespeare,'' died on Dec. 23 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 93. The cause was complications of a stroke, said Prof. John J. Tobin, a longtime collaborator. Dr
 Jack Snow, an outstanding receiver for the Los Angeles Rams for more than a decade and a longtime radio analyst for the Rams franchise, died Monday at a hospital in St. Louis. He was 62. The cause was complications of a staph infection, the Rams said. Snow had double hip replacement
 ADLER--Herbert S.-Tennyson's words ''I am a part of all that I have met,'' are a fitting epitaph for our beloved Herb. All are welcome to attend his memorial service on Tuesday, January 17 at 5PM. Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street & Amsterdam Ave., NYC. Contributions may be made to The
 CHANG--Albert C. Of Great Neck, January 7, 2006. Beloved husband of Lita Wou. Loving father of the late Laura Lynne. Memorial services 1:00 PM on Saturday, February 4, 2006 at Community Church of Great Neck, 2 Stoner Avenue, Great Neck. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be
 LAWRENCE--Sherman Seelig. Age 87 on January 9, 2006. Cherished husband of Florence, loving brother of Hilda Cooper. Incredibly devoted father of Alicia Gayle and Robert. Loving father-inlaw of Jody, loving grandfather of Tara and Carly. Services today 12 noon at Garden City Jewish Center, 1
 LOGAN--J. Murray, 70. Born in Baltimore, MD, died peacefully at home on January 7, 2006. He leaves his dearly loved daughter, Miss Maria Charlotte Logan. Husband of the late Page Cole Logan, brother of Hugh Logan and the late Margaret Cotter. Brother-in-law of the late Jack Cotter. Uncle of
 MILGRIM--Seymour, 77. On January 9 devoted husband of the late Arlene, loving father of Laurence and dear grandfather of Bari. He is also survived by his brother Sidney. Services Thursday January 12 at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'', 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue 11:30 AM. Shiva will 
 O'SULLIVAN--Kevin Patrick.Television executive and philanthropist, died on January 9th at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Mr. O'Sullivan entered the television industry in 1948 as an undergraduate at Queens College, first as a news commentator, then later as an actor
 SABOT--Lawrence M., M.D. The officers and members of the New York University Psychoanalytic Institute and The Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourn the loss of their beloved friend and colleague, Larry Sabot. He was an esteemed and respected clinician, teacher, and supervisor. Clinic
 SAMIS--Dr. Sidney M. Died peacefully on January 8, 2006 at the age of 88. Doctor, hospital administrator, public health advocate, humanitarian and inventor; WWII combat veteran, lifelong peace activist, and lover of the arts. A man of ideas whose actions contributed to the public good. He i
 SCHNEIDER--Irving M. Dr. New York Hospital Queens Board of Trustees, administration, medical staff, and employees mourn the passing of Irving M. Schneider, M.D., attending urologist. Dr. Schneider was a founding father of our institution, which he helped establish in 1956 as Booth Memorial 
 UTENDAHL--George C. Sr., Died at his home on January 9, 2006. He was 84 years old. George is survived by his loving wife, Yvonne; his four children: Lawrence Utendahl, Myra Riggs, George Utendahl and John Utendahl; his two step-children: Duane and Kim; 11 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchi
 BIENVENUE--Reynolds J. III. He enriched our lives with his warmth, humor, talent, generosity, elegance and beauty, in health and until the end. His far-reaching family of friends, most significantly, David, his prince, will miss him forever. Jonathan and Pierce, Lauren and Joshua, Mark and 
 HIMMELFARB--Milton. The American Jewish Committee is deeply sorrowed by the passing of Milton Himmelfarb. During a distinguished 44 year career at AJC, he served in virtually every department of the national organization, including as editor of the American Jewish Year Book and as contribut
 SONDHEIMER - Manfred. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 WALLERSTEIN--Michael. We mourn the untimely death of Michael, brilliant scholar and express our deep sorrow to his wife Liz, their children, his sisters, Nina and Amy and their children, his host of family and friends and to his parents, our life long friends, Judy and Bob. May his name be 
 Dr. Ira B. Black, a neuroscientist and brain researcher who became an early advocate for stem cell research and a founder of the Stem Cell Institute of New Jersey, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 64. The cause was an infection related to a tumor, his family sai
 CHESWICK--Richard R. The founder of Cheswick Investment and a resident of Darien, CT and Hobe Sound, FL died Sunday, January 8th in Greenwich, CT. Born July 5, 1924, he was the son of Harold Beck Cheswick and Dorcas Louise Cheswick of Rockville Center, NY. After graduation from Southside Hi
 DAMASHEK--Philip M. A prominent personal injury attorney and trustee of New York Law School, died Tuesday at New York Hospital at the age of 65 after battling lung cancer. Managing partner in Schneider, Kleinick, Weitz & Damashek, Mr. Damashek, a Past President of the New York State Trial L
 FRANK--Sidney E. The Board of Directors, management and staff of White Plains Hospital Center mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of our dear friend, board member and benefactor, Mr. Sidney E. Frank. Sidney Frank's contributions to our Hospital have made possible our preeminent position a
 HEYMAN - Stanley, 83, passed away January 10, 2006. Loving husband of Eleanor and father of three. A WWII veteran he owned Lichter's, a chain of stores that clothed women and children in Rockland County for over four decades. He was know for his warmth and kindness and impish sense of humor
 KURFIST--Lewis Andrew. On January 7, 2006, age 53. Survived by his loving wife Linda and daughters Melissa and Amy, sister Wendy and brother Robert. He was a successful computer program designer who fulfilled his life dream by patenting ''CowchPotato'' as well as being a tax attorney.      
 LANGERMAN -- David W., MD. David Walter Langerman, M.D. of Nyack, NY, died on Tuesday, January 10 at the age of 71. A prominent ophthalmologist in private practice in New York for over 38 years, Dr. Langerman was the Founder and Medical Director of the Langerman Eye Institute and The New Yo
 LOGAN--J. Murray. New York City Opera mourns the passing of our beloved benefactor and dear friend. Murray's tremendous spirit, generosity and love of the arts have been an inspiration and left a legacy for us all. We extend our deepest sympathy to Heather Croner and his family. Susan L. Ba
 O'SULLIVAN--Kevin Patrick.Television executive and philanthropist, died on January 9th at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Mr. O'Sullivan entered the television industry in 1948 as an undergraduate at Queens College, first as a news commentator, then later as an actor
 OXMAN--Ralph. Born 1910, Duluth, MN. Graduate of the Juilliard School of Music. Pursued a prominent career as a cellist in New York. Participant in multiple orchestral and chamber music groups, solo cellist with the CBS Symphony, teacher, a fine musician and patient and gentle man, he was a
 ROTHCHILD--Irving, M.D. On January 9, 2006 in Cleveland, Ohio. Beloved husband of Dr. Ellen Newman Rothchild; brother of Joseph & Herbert and the late Edna Gamson. Scientist, writer, poet, Professor Emeritus of Reproductive Biology at Case Western Reserve University. Scientific research was
 SABOT--Lawrence, M.D. The members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society & Institute mourn the loss of their longtime colleague, Dr. Lawrence Sabot. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and friends. Paul Rosenbaum, M.D., Pres.       
 TEXON--Meyer, 96, on January 10, 2006. Beloved husband of 64 years of Ami. Devoted father of Sylvia Rogers and Cantor Stephen Texon. Loving grandfather of Robert, Jessica, Jason and Raphael. Renowned cardiologist and former President of the New York County Medical Society. Associate Profess
 Sidney E. Frank, who was forced to leave Brown University as a freshman when his money ran out, went on to concoct spectacularly successful marketing campaigns for Jägermeister liqueur and Grey Goose vodka, then became so rich he gave Brown its biggest gift ever, died Tuesday in San Diego.
 Hubert J. P. Schoemaker, a founder and former president of one of the nation's first biotechnology companies, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Paoli, Pa. He was 55. The cause was brain cancer, said his stepson, Jonathan Saruk. Mr. Schoemaker helped start Centocor, which is best
 Irving Layton, a Canadian poet as quirky as he was prolific, died on Jan. 4 in Montreal. He was 93. The death was announced on his Web site, www.irvinglayton.com. Press reports from Montreal said the cause was Alzheimer's disease, diagnosed in 1994. Foreign-born, though bare
 Marshall A. Robinson, former president of the Russell Sage Foundation in New York, died on Saturday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 83, and died after a long illness, his family said. After a career in academia and with the Ford Foundation, Dr. Robinson headed the 
 Mimmo Rotella, the Italian artist who was one of the last surviving members of the influential French Nouveaux Réalistes group, died on Sunday in Milan. He was 87. His death followed several months of illness, said his wife, Inna Rotella. Mr. Rotella was best known for coll
 BERLEY--Daniel M. Age 81, January 12, 2006. Collector and pioneer publisher of limited edition photographs. Lovingly remembered by his wife, Ellen Schiff, his children, Karen, Lisa, Peter & Barbara, daughter - in - law, Meggan, son-in-law, Shelly and eight grandchildren, Kayla, Sam, Noah, E
 FRANK--Sidney E. New York Medical College mourns the passing of our benefactor and friend Sidney E. Frank. His life was an extraordinary example of how one individul's struggle to overcome adversity can mature into a life long commitment to helping others through philanthropy. Mr. Frank's g
 GREENFIELD -- George T. Age 77, died in peace on Thursday January 12, 2006. Born on December 31, 1928 to Lillian Liebowitz and Leon Greenfield predeceased. Adored husband of Susan. Devoted father of Abbi and Paul Neuthaler, Dina and Richard Schechter, Gary and Lori Gertzog, Ellen and Jonath
 HORNIK--Josef B. On January 11, 2006. Loving father of Robert and Abigail & father-in-law of Laurie Hornik & Thomas Minckler. Proud grandfather of Ezra, Naomi, Geoffrey, Rachel and Mikaela. Loving uncle and great-uncle of the Ramot and Hornik families in Israel. Services Friday 1 PM at ''Th
 KAMIN--Cal. On January 12, 2006, at the age of 73. Treasured and adored by his family. His wife Terry, his daughters Audrey Kamin Teich and her partner Mindy Isacoff, Cari & Gary Davniero, Diane and Larry Greenberg, grandchildren Michelle, Jessica, Jaime, Michael, Tracy, David & Sarah.     
 KAUFMAN--Howard Riemer. Beloved husband of Judith Kaufman. Loving father of Katherine Kaufman and the late Claude Kaufman, and loving father-in-law to Michael Narotsky. Doting ''Poppa'' to Carly and Skyler Narotsky; devoted ''Patriarch'' to his cousins. World War II naval officer. Harvard L
 LANGERMAN -- David W., M.D. David Walter Langerman, M.D. of Nyack, NY, died on Tuesday, January 10 at the age of 71. A prominent ophthalmologist in private practice in New York for over 38 years, Dr. Langerman was the Founder and Medical Director of the Langerman Eye Institute and The New Y
 LAWRENCE--Sherman S. We mourn the loss of Sherman Lawrence, a wonderful father and renaissance lawyer. Your wisdom and humor will be missed. Our profound sympathy to his wife Florence and family. Warren B. Kanders Armor Holdings, Inc.       
 LOGAN--J. Murray. The Berkshire Opera Company mourns the passing of Murray Logan, a beloved friend, benefactor and most esteemed Board member. You inspired us with your devoted leadership, spirit and generosity. A truer gentleman there never was. We extend our deepest sympathies to his enti
 MILLER--Algernon M., Esq. The Officers, Directors and Members of the Bronx County Bar Association mourn the passing of our distinguished former President and extend deepest sympathy to his entire family.       
 POLK--Alexander. Age 87, died January 9, 2006, from complications of a fall suffered while being treated in a hospital's NICU. World War II veteran, 58 year member, officer and director of Temple Beth-El, North Bergen, immediate past commander of JWV Post 76, IRS agent until his retirement.
 REMIN--Morris, who died on January 12th at age 92 at home in North Miami Beach, FL, was the founder of the former Remin's Dress Shop of New Rochelle, NY. One of the original off-price stores, Remin's drew customers from the Tri-state area and beyond for couture and designer fashion. Born in
 SAMIS--Dr. Sidney M. Died peacefully on January 8, 2006 at the age of 88. Doctor, hospital administrator, public health advocate, humanitarian and inventor; WWII combat veteran, lifelong peace activist, and lover of the arts. A man of ideas whose actions contributed to the public good. He i
 TEXON--Meyer. Our hearts are broken at the loss of this great and gentle man. Meyer's warmth and kindness were matched by his brilliance and elegance. His innovative contributions to the field of medicine will continue to add immeasurably to the understanding of the human heart. His love of
 HILDICK-SMITH--Gavin Y. (Pete), M.D. Of Princeton, NJ, died Sunday, at University Medical Center at Princeton, at age 86. Survived by his wife Kit, sons and daughtersin law, Peter and Beth, and Andrew and Hughie, and six grandsons. Memorial service is at 11:30 AM, Friday, at Trinity Church,
 Eldon Dedini, a cartoonist who concocted a mythical world of satyrs and nymphs for Playboy and another of quirky, sophisticated wit for The New Yorker, died Thursday at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 84. The cause was esophageal cancer, his son, Giulio, said. Mr. Dedini d
 Elliot Forbes, a retired Harvard University professor of music whose revision of ''Thayer's Life of Beethoven'' became a pillar of Beethoven scholarship, died at his home in Cambridge, Mass., on Tuesday, family members said. He was 88. A much-loved fixture on the campus, Mr. Forbes 
 Frank Okamura, who came to New York City as a gardener after his release from a wartime internment camp in California and ended up contributing to the spread of Japanese cultural influences in America as a bonsai master, restaurant owner and even as a landlord, died on Monday at his home in
 ABRAMS--Phil. The tenant community of 72nd Street Owners, Inc. remembers Phil with fondness and appreciation for his many years of service to all as past Board President.       
 FEINNE -- Martin Harry. Passed away Friday January 13, he was 80 years old. Born in New York City he was a graduate of NYU receiving a Master's degree in Music. He is survived by his wife Charlotte, son David and a sister Sonya Shapiro. He was an Army veteran of W.W. II and he was predeceas
 FRANK--Sidney E. Westchester has lost its most generous citizen. We were proud to be his hometown radio stations and provide the music for his relentless generosity and remarkable philanthropy. Nancy and William O'Shaughnessy Whitney Radio WVOX and WRTN $(6$)FRANK--Sidney. So long old frien
 GOLD--Berthold, 76. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. He was a selfless, loving, generous man who touched many lives and will be greatly missed. Services Sunday, January 15, 9:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 GREENFIELD -- George T. Age 77, died peacefully Thursday January 12, 2006. Adored husband of Susan. Devoted father of Abbi and Paul Neuthaler, Dina and Richard Schechter, Gary and Lori Gertzog, Ellen and Jonathan Silver. Doting grandfather of Jamie and Jake, Alison and Marc, Allison and Bry
 HELLER--Elias in his 104th year. Loving and devoted husband of Elsie (deceased). Loving father of Miles and Deborah, Esther and Jacob, Esty and David; grandfather of Betty and Larry, Ira, Maury and Dena, Ira and Alysia, Alan and Deborah, Joy and Isaac, Adina and Steven, Elana, Rachael and J
 LANGERMAN -- David W., M.D. David Walter Langerman, M.D. of Nyack, NY, died on Tuesday, January 10 at the age of 71. A prominent ophthalmologist in private practice in New York for over 38 years, Dr. Langerman was the Founder and Medical Director of the Langerman Eye Institute and The New Y
 LAWRENCE--Sherman S. We mourn the loss of Sherman Lawrence, a wonderful father and renaissance lawyer. Your wisdom and humor will be missed. Our profound sympathy to his wife Florence and family. Warren B. Kanders Armor Holdings, Inc.       
 LOBEL--Leon. Died January 10, 2006. Survived by his loving wife Anita, and three children. Funeral services Sunday, January 15, 9:30 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY, 914-664-6800. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Children's Brain Tumor F
 Bradford Cannon, a Boston physician and pioneer in reconstructive plastic surgery who applied path-breaking medical techniques to advance skin grafting, especially in cases involving serious burns, died on Dec. 20 at his daughter's home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 98. The cause was pne
 Sheik Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah, the soft-spoken emir of Kuwait who ruled the oil-rich country for 28 years through the tumult of the Iranian revolution, the Iran-Iraq war and the invasion of Kuwait by Saddam Hussein's armies in 1990, died early Sunday morning, the Kuwaiti Royal Court announc
 Milton Himmelfarb, a leading essayist for Commentary and other publications who was known for his well wrought and witty observations on Jewish affairs, died on Jan. 4 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in White Plains. The cause was complica
 BRICKLEY--Richard L. 88, a noted utilities lawyer, died at his home in Litchfield, CT. on January 11, 2006. Mr. Brickley was a a partner of the Boston law firm of Brickley, Sears and Sorett. During World War II, he served in the Judge Advocate General's Office. He was a member of the Somers
 COHEN--Donald, M.D. The New York Psychoanalytic Sociaty and Institute mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Dr. Donald Cohen. A training and supervising analyst, he served as Chair of our Child Analysis Committee for many years. Donald was a great clinician and a beloved teacher. Graced w
 COWAN--Robert Campbell Jr. Peacefully, on January 12, 2006, of New York City. Beloved husband of the late Margaret (Peggy) Walker. Loving father of Mary Amanda Duff (Paul) and Hilary Anne Cowan. Dear brother of John and the late Anne Cornelius and Paul Cowan. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 
 CUPIT--Morris J. Beloved husband of Fanny (deceased), father and grandfather, died on January 6, 2006 at the age of 98. He was a brilliant mathematician and linguist who worked for many years as an Accountant for New York State. More importantly, he was the heart and soul of our family and 
 ENLOE--Roger. 94, died at his Kendal home in Kennett Square, PA on January 10. Born in Griffin, GA, he was a graduate of Davidson College and Princeton Theological Seminary. He served as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Bethlehem, PA. With wife, Jane Dent, he counseled Spanish Pro
 FRANK--Sidney E. The Department of Psychiatry of New York Medical College and its entire faculty mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of our friend, neighbor, benefactor and a great humanitarian. He was not only a creative genius in his unparalleled career but also was that way in his gene
 GATES--E. Nathaniel. The Board, faculty, administration, alumni, and students of Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law of Yeshiva University mourn the passing of their esteemed and well-loved colleague and professor. A member of the faculty since 1992, he made noteworthy contributions to Cardoz
 GREENFIELD -- George T. Age 77, died peacefully Thursday January 12, 2006. Adored husband of Susan. Devoted father of Abbi and Paul Neuthaler, Dina and Richard Schechter, Gary and Lori Gertzog, Ellen and Jonathan Silver. Doting grandfather of Jamie and Jake, Alison and Marc, Allison and Bry
 HAYES--J. Nicholas. 58, passed away January 5 at his home in Alexandria, VA. A proud New Yorker, Nick graduated from the Loyola School, NYC and Trinity College, Hartford (1969). After a career in commercial real estate, Nick entered the political world as director of fundraising for the lat
 HELLER--Elias in his 104th year. Loving and devoted husband of Elsie (deceased). Loving father of Miles and Deborah, Esther and Jacob, Esty and David; grandfather of Betty and Larry, Ira, Maury and Dena, Ira and Alysia, Alan and Deborah, Joy and Isaac, Adina and Steven, Elana, Rachael and J
 HOCHBERG--Mitchell J., 85. Died peacefully on January 10th, 2006, in Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Rockville Centre, NY, and Delray Beach, FL. Loving father of Marion Hochberg; cherished brother and brother-in-law of Ruth and Larry Pickard; very proud uncle of Marc (Jeanne) Pickard and Dr. Je
 HOGIN--Philip E. 85, December 26, 2005, after long illness. Born Oak Park, IL, May 4, 1920, Scarsdale High School, NY, Cornell University engineering 1942. 1st Lieutenant, Navy WWII. Sloan Fellow, MIT 1954. Retired as Executive Vice President, AT&T Technologies, 1985. Served on boards: Sand
 KAFTEN--Douglas I., 84. On October 16, 2005. A WWII pilot and textile executive in New York City. He is survived by his wife, artist Janet Culbertson & children, Sandy Capasso, Jane Bronfman and Mitchell Kaften.       
 KAMIN--Cal. On January 12, 2006, at the age of 73. Treasured and adored by his family. His wife Terry, his daughters Audrey Kamin Teich and her partner Mindy Isacoff, Cari & Gary Davniero, Diane and Larry Greenberg, grandchildren Michelle, Jessica, Jaime, Michael, Tracy, David & Sarah.     
 KELLEHER -- Edward Joseph. Edward J. Kelleher, Bank of America's Managing Director and Country Executive Officer for Korea and Japan, died suddenly of heart failure on Monday, January 9, 2006. He was 53. A native New Yorker, Mr Kelleher had spent half of his 23-year banking career with Bank
 KERRIGAN--James J., of Larchmont, NY, and Naples, FL, died on December 21, 2005, at the age of 83. He grew up in Summit, NJ, attended Canterbury, Princeton, and Harvard Law. He served in the Marines with the First Marine Division during the battle for Okinawa and in Beijing during the occup
 KINDRED -- G. Estabrook (Brook). January 7, 2006. A gentleman who loved life, had a sense of humor and a passion for people. He will be missed. He is survived by his wife of 50 years Molly; his daughters Valerie and Dorothy, his grandchildren Molly, Sam, Tabitha and Brook; and brother John.
 KORN--Seymour. The entire Continuum Health Partners family joins with the staff of the External Affairs Department in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Seymour Korn, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Brad Korn, Corporate Director, Community Affairs. To Brad, his famil
 LANGERMAN -- David W., M.D. David Walter Langerman, M.D. of Nyack, NY, died on Tuesday, January 10 at the age of 71. A prominent ophthalmologist in private practice in New York for over 38 years, Dr. Langerman was the Founder and Medical Director of the Langerman Eye Institute and The New Y
 LAWRENCE--Sherman. The staff of Goodman Media International, Inc., mourns the passing of a great lawyer and an extraordinary man. We extend our condolences to Rob, to the entire Lawrence family, and to all of our friends at Kane Kessler, P.C. Tom Goodman, President and CEO $(6$)LAWRENCE--Sh
 LEWIN--Richard E. Of NYC. June 6, 1917-January 1, 2006. Son of the late Isador and Maude Lehman Lewin. Member of the Yorks; Army First Lieutenant 1943-1946. Predeceased by his dear wife Frances Froehlich Lewin and his brother Stanley, he is survived by sister Desiree Lewin Jacobs of Feeding
 LOBEL--Leon. Died January 10, 2006. Survived by his loving wife Anita, three children and brother. Funeral services Sunday, January 15, 9:30 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY; 914-664-6800. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Children's Brain
 PERSONS--Robert Jr. Gentle, insightful, genuine, died January 12, 2006, peacefully. Professor of Economics, author, thinker. Survived by wife Laura, children Rick and Jil, six grandchildren. His world was books, family and making life easier for all. His love, caring and unique intellect wi
 SCHRAML - Richard. Of Smithtown, on January 13, 2006, in his 84th year. Retired Suffolk Community College Professor, a devoted family man, decorated WWII veteran and staunch supporter of environmental and conservation causes. He is survived by his wife Ann, his children Lisa and Mark, his d
 Bob Weinstock, who founded the independent jazz record label Prestige in 1949 and ran it for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at a hospice in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 77 and lived in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He died of complications of diabetes, said his daughter-in-law, Barbara Wei
 J. Donald Rauth, a former chairman of the Martin Marietta Corporation, which through a merger became part of the Lockheed Martin Corporation, died on Dec. 28 in Washington. He was 87 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Rauth (pron
 Eric Namesnik, who won silver medals in swimming in the 1992 and 1996 Olympics and became a coach of several Olympians, died Wednesday at a hospital in Ypsilanti, Mich., four days after he was critically injured in an automobile accident on an icy road. He was 35 and lived in Saline, Mich. 
 Leon Lobel, a fourth-generation butcher and part owner of his family's business, the Upper East Side butcher shop Lobel's Prime Meats, died on Tuesday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 77. The cause was apparently a heart attack, his son, Evan Lobel, said. During the pa
 COWAN--Robert Campbell Jr. Peacefully, on January 12, 2006, of New York City. Beloved husband of the late Margaret (Peggy) Walker. Loving father of Mary Amanda Duff (Paul) and Hilary Anne Cowan. Dear brother of John and the late Anne Cornelius and Paul Cowan. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 
 FISCHER -- Henry George. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of Dr. Henry Fischer, a world-renowned curator and scholar of ancient Egyptian art, whose vast contributions to his field have had a lasting impact on the present-day understanding of pharaonic 
 FRANK--Sidney E. Westchester has lost its most generous citizen. We were proud to be his hometown radio stations and provide the music for his relentless generosity and remarkable philanthropy. Nancy and William O'Shaughnessy Whitney Radio WVOX and WRTN       
 GLICKMAN--Lawrence Irwin. Died January 15. Husband of Ann (Savitz). Father of Ronald and Roger. Father-inlaw of Susan and Sandy. Grandfather of Perry, Melanie, Casey, Sammy, Taylor and Hallie. Brother of Barbara. Brother-in-law of Bruce, Jay and Susan. Greatly beloved by all of us. A man of
 GOODMAN--William E. IV Died on January 14, 2006, in Vero Beach, FL, at the age of 73. Born in Philadelphia, he was a longtime resident of Manhattan. From 1958 to 1971 he was with J.P. Morgan & Co. (later Morgan Guaranty Trust Company) in their Personnel Department. He became a Vice Presiden
 LUCKENS--Rabbi Dr. Reuben. 89, of Waltham, Massachusetts, on Saturday, January 14, 2006. Beloved husband of Helen (Shapiro). Devoted father of Linda and her husband Fred Gelber and Rabbi Michael Luckens and his wife Sharon Schumack. Dear grandfather of Joshua Luckens. Burial was in Queens, 
 RICHTER--Fred W. (February 6, 1932--January 14, 2006.) Son of Ben and Rae. Father to Todd and Toby. Father-inlaw to Jeff Barclay. Brother of Richard, and Judy Levy. Grandfather to Katie and Margot. Uncle to many nieces and nephews. An avid skier and golfer, he was a character who made the p
 THOMPSON--James ''Jimmy'' Wilson. 56, of Fairview, NC, died Saturday, January 7, 2006 at his residence. A native of Locust Valley, NY, he was the son of Kathleen Fraser Thompson of Flat Rock, NC, and Henry B. Thompson and his wife Christina de V. of Oyster Bay, NY. He is survived by his wif
 The emir of Kuwait, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah, a low-key ruler who helped guide his people through the long days when Iraqi's military occupied, looted and ransacked their small, oil-rich nation, died Sunday morning after a long illness, the Kuwaiti royal court announced. He was 79.    
 GLICKMAN--Lawrence Irwin. Died January 15. Husband of Ann (Savitz). Father of Ronald and Roger. Father-inlaw of Susan and Sandy. Grandfather of Perry, Melanie, Casey, Sammy, Taylor and Hallie. Brother of Barbara. Son-in-law of Esther. Brother-in-law of Bruce, Jay and Susan. Greatly beloved 
 GOODMAN--William E. IV Died on January 14, 2006, in Vero Beach, FL, at the age of 73. Born in Philadelphia, he was a longtime resident of Manhattan. From 1958 to 1971 he was with J.P. Morgan & Co. (later Morgan Guaranty Trust Company) in their Personnel Department. He became a Vice Presiden
 JOFFE--Arnold, M.D. 86, of Camden, ME, and formerly of Eastchester, NY, died December 23, 2005. Predeceased by his beloved wife Lucy (nee March) in August 2005. Survived by son David of Boulder, CO, daughter Gilda JoffeTarkhanov of Lincolnville, ME, and grandson, Andre Joffe of Boulder, CO.
 LADEN--Jamie Andrew. Died on Sunday, January 15, 2006, at the age of 26. Treasured and adored by his family. Beloved son of Susan Laden and Burton Laden. Devoted brother of Eric, Paul and Adam Haber. Loving uncle of Ashley, Matthew, Sasha, Max, Ellie, Evan and Olivia. A memorial service wil
 LEVINE -- Theodore (Ted). January 15. Age 86, of massive stroke after 14 year struggle with Alzheimers. W.W. II combat tank driver, fine teacher, talented, compassionate psychologist, creative camp director, lifelong worker for peace and social justice. Lived with verve and great sense of h
 RICHTER--Fred W. (February 6, 1932--January 14, 2006.) Son of Ben and Rae. Father to Todd and Toby. Father-inlaw to Jeff Barclay. Brother of Richard, and Judy Levy. Grandfather to Katie and Margot. Uncle to many nieces and nephews. An avid skier and golfer, he was a character who made the p
 SINGER -- Stanton Samuel. Died peacefully January 16, in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father of Nancy Ellen Tancer and Jeffrey Allen Singer. Dear father-in-law, loving grandfather and great-grandfather. Graveside burial January 17, 11AM, Beth Moses Cemetery, Farmingdale, N
 Philip Ressner, a retired book editor and the author of half a dozen successful children's books, died on Dec. 27 at Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 83. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Ressner worked as a subway motorman before he broke into editing.
 Col. Edward N. Hall, an engineer who as an intelligence officer scrutinized the V-2 rockets of Nazi Germany and went on to supervise programs leading to the development of the United States' intercontinental ballistic missiles, including the Minuteman, died on Jan. 15 in Torrance, Calif. He
 Edwin S. Cohen, a nationally prominent tax expert and lawyer who helped formulate the tax programs of the Nixon administration, died on Thursday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 91. The death was announced by his family. Working as an associate in the firm of Sulli
 Henry George Fischer, the Metropolitan Museum of Art curator who helped the Temple of Dendur find a new life in New York as a focal point of the museum, died on Dec. 11 in Newtown, Pa., where he had moved from Sherman, Conn., in 2003. He was 82. The death was announced by his family
 EGBERT--George P. Jr. Of Greenwich, CT on January 15, 2006. He is survived by his beloved wife of 34 years, Judith Barrett Egbert, five children, Ann, Susan Egbert Gilroy, James, Melissa Egbert Sheehan and G. Pennington III and four grandchildren. His first wife Ann Hedges Egbert, predeceas
 MINIKES--Kate. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Kate Minikes, beloved mother of Michael Minikes, a member of our Wall Street Executive Council and Capital/Endowment Campaign planning task force, whose philanthropic vision helps s
 SMITH--Paul M., III. 60, died January 13 in Rancho Mirage, CA. Born in Chicago, former resident of Sharon, CT. A Georgetown graduate, he worked many years for J.P. Morgan and then founded Smith McDonnell, a private investment company. Memorial services to be announced in Rancho Mirage and S
 WETZIG--Paul C. M.D., of Colorado Springs, CO, died January 9, 2006, at home. Survived by wife of 59 years, Doreen; four children, nine grandchildren. Paul did his residency in ophthalmology under chairman John McLean, M.D., at Cornell University, New York Hospital, NYC. Paul was recognized
 Fred K. Hoehler Jr., a pioneer in labor education and the founding director of the George Meany Center for Labor Studies of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., forerunner of the National Labor College in Maryland, died on Jan. 4 in Bellingham, Wash. He was 87. His death was announced by his family. 
 Jim Gary, an internationally noted sculptor in metal whose best-known work transformed the skeletons of derelict cars into the hulking, playful and surprisingly graceful skeletons of dinosaurs, died on Saturday in Freehold, N.J. He was 66 and lived in Farmingdale, N.J. The cause was
 ARNOLD--Herbert W. Died peacefully on January 12 with his family at his side. Devoted husband to Barbara & father to Phyllis and Staci. Loving grandfather of Liam & Isabel. Successful garment district figure for many years, he was known and loved by many. He proudly served his country in th
 EGBERT--George P. Jr. Of Greenwich, CT on January 15, 2006. He is survived by his beloved wife of 34 years, Judith Barrett Egbert, five children, Ann, Susan Egbert Gilroy, James, Melissa Egbert Sheehan and G. Pennington III and four grandchildren. His first wife Ann Hedges Egbert, predeceas
 FEDER--Sally. Our deepest sympathies go out to Mel Feder, senior partner and friend, and his dear family as they mourn the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother, Sally Feder. The Partners & staff of Loeb & Troper       
 HOYT--Harvey. Age 68 of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. passed away January 16, 2006. He was the son of Kenneth and Veronica Hoyt. Harvey was a graduate of Iona Prep and College of Holy Cross where he was captain of the golf team and was a veteran of the U.S. Navy. He was a former resident of Greenw
 MARTIN--Edward James. On Tuesday, January 17, from injuries suffered from a car accident in Durham, NC. He was 68. The son of Michael and Theresa Martin, he was born on January 11, 1938 and was raised in the Bronx. While he briefly lived in Georgia, California and Nevada, his love for his f
 MERDINGER--Arthur C. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Arthur C. Merdinger and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President       
 O'CONNOR--Patrick F. 77, a native of Cazenovia, NY, died on December 10, 2005 after an extended illness. Since the late 1950s, Mr O'Connor made his home in New York City where he pursued a successful career beginning with his employment at Video Tape Center, a television production facility
 REYNOLDS--Robert J. On January 17, 2006. Beloved son of the late Arthur and the late Jean Reynolds, loving brother of Arthur Jr., Frank, David, Mary Anne and Paul, devoted uncle to numerous nieces and nephews. A graduate of Fairfield University Class of 1959, Mr. Reynolds was a longtime sal
 VOCK--Philip David, 76. An Auschwitz survivor and Korean war veteran, died on January 13, 2006 in Paris. He will be buried on January 20, 2006 at noon in Calverton National Cemetery on Long Island. He is survived by loving children Cyril and Natalie and six adoring grandchildren.       
 Thomas A. Murphy, who led General Motors for most of the 1970's, died Wednesday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 90. His death was announced by General Motors. Mr. Murphy began his career at G.M. as a clerk in the controller's office after he graduated from college 
 Gideon A. Rodan, a biomedical researcher who studied the destruction and formation of bone cells in important work used to develop treatments for osteoporosis and bone loss, died Jan. 1 at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Rodan
 BORAH--Julius M. on January 15, 2006 at the age of 92. Beloved husband of Annabelle (Lyon) Borah, accomplished ballet dancer. Father of Joshua D. Borah and his wife, Karen A. Castonguay and grandfather of Matthew C. Borah all of Mansfield, MA. A Celebration of Life Gathering of family and f
 BRENDER--Edward, CPA, MBA, LLB, of Fresh Meadows, NY, passed away suddenly on New Year's Day after a long fight with diabetes, hypertension and renal failure. He was survived by his loving wife, Ruth; and their three sons: Elliott Brender, MD, his wife, Julie, and their two children, Jacob 
 BRENWASSER--Donald, 74. On Tuesday, January 17, 2006. Born in New York City, where he lived before moving to Wyckoff, New Jersey in 1972. Don was a fine art photographer who owned Brenwasser Studios, which was opened by his father, Eugene, in the 1930s. He was a veteran of the Navy, and had
 LEVINE -- Theodore (Ted). January 15. Age 86, of massive stroke after 14 year struggle with Alzheimers. W.W. II combat tank driver, fine teacher, talented, compassionate psychologist, creative camp director, lifelong worker for peace and social justice. Lived with verve and great sense of h
 LYON--William Doane Jr. of Essex Meadows, Essex, CT., passed away on January 14, 2006. Born in Utica, NY, he had lived in Essex for the past 65 years. He was a founding member of the Essex Land Trust and was active in many civic organizations. During WWII he served in the Calvary and the Na
 O'CONNELL -- William L., D.D.S. Of Garden City, N.Y. on January 18, 2006. Beloved husband of Joan (nee Carr). Loving father of Suzanne (Paul) Scully, William A., Cathleen (Stephen) Johnson, Carolyn (James) McTiernan, Joan M. and Neil V. Dear brother of Carol Heinze and Estelle Bennett. Ador
 REYNOLDS--Robert J. On January 17, 2006. Beloved son of the late Arthur and the late Jean Reynolds, loving brother of Arthur Jr., Frank, David, Mary Anne and Paul, devoted uncle to numerous nieces and nephews. A graduate of Fairfield University Class of 1959, Mr. Reynolds was a longtime sal
 STERLING---Rhoda Soltanoff, 85. Died peacefully on Chai Tevet, 18 January. The love of his life to husband Joseph Sterling; the essential imma of Ellen L. Sterling and Howard D. Sterling; chamos extraordinaire to Sage B. Foster and Linda Rosen Sterling; special savta to Ya'akov Feivel Sterl
 TEXON--Meyer, MD. The New York County Medical Society mourns the passing of Doctor Meyer Texon, President, 1982-1983. A member of the Society since 1937, he served as chair of numerous committees, and was a longtime delegate to the Medical Society of the State of New York. Doctor Texon was 
 BERNSTEIN--Sol. To the kindest father ever on his 106th birthday, my heart will always see you and miss you. B       
 Wilson Pickett, the soul music pioneer whose insistent wail turned songs like ''In the Midnight Hour'' into hits, died yesterday in Virginia. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, Margo Lewis, his manager, said. She added that Mr. Pickett had spent the twilight of his career play
 BIENSTOCK - Johnny, 83 years old. Of Naples, Florida and Southampton, NY, died on Friday, January 20, 2006 in Naples. He is survived by his wife of 15 years, Nichola; daughters Jacqueline Kates and Andrea Bienstock and sons-in-law Michael Kates and Nathan Bicks; stepson Alexander McKenzie; 
 GROSSMAN--Gerald. The Officers, staff and members of the former ILGWU and Local 10 mourns the loss of our Manager and Vice-President. Jerry served workers in the apparel industry for over 38 years. He was very committed to the betterment of workers and will be missed. Edgar Romney, Chair IL
 HERSKOVITZ--Antol, 88. Died on January 18, 2006 after a prolonged illness. He was a pioneer in the field of medical photography. Following 18 years at Montefiore Hospital, he was Director of Media Development at the Health Sciences Center, SUNY Stonybrook until he retired in 1982. Antol is 
 STANG--Michael R. Died January 19th, 2006 in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, NY. He was born September 14th, 1937 in Bronx, New York, the son of Harry and Paula Peskin. Would any kin or anyone knowing of any next-ofkin, please contact the Rome DDSO collect at 315-336-2300 with any special fun
 Stanley H. Biber, a small-town Colorado doctor who for decades was internationally renowned as the dean of sex-change surgery, died on Monday at a hospital in Pueblo. He was 82 and lived in Hoehne, Colo. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his secretary, Marie Pacino.    
 ATKIN--Howard S. October 1, 1922 to January 16, 2006. Died of multiple medical complications at Cabrini Hospice NYC. Beloved by his wife Betty, daughter Alexandra, son-inlaw David and grandchildren Lena and Evan Atkin Molyneux. He will be in our hearts forever.       
 BASTIEN--James William. A loving husband and father, and a passionate piano pedagogue and musician, passed away on December 7, 2005, in La Jolla, California. During his long career, Jim became internationally known through his contributions to piano teaching, composing, writing, adjudicatio
 BERGER--Esther and Bernard. Each 92 of New York, loving husband and wife of 53 years, died two days apart. They were the wonderful parents of daughter Terri and son-in-law Jerry and grandparents of Sarah. They expanded the lives and horizons of many people in their long careers with the Cit
 BRENDER--Edward. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edward Brender, whose dedication and generous support of the Pinchas Sapir Technical College in the Negev and other projects in Israel left an indelible mark on the Jewish communi
 CONKLIN--Kenneth J. Age 46, December 30, Miami Beach, FL. Wonderful son to Harry and Luella Conklin of Grafton, VT. Loving brother to Jay, Christine, Mary Lu, Nancy, and Kate. He had a successful career in publishing in NY and Miami. Celebration of Life in May, Grafton, VT. A memorial at Un
 DORIAN--Roger. Colonel Roger J. Dorian of Virginia Beach, VA passed away on January 18, 2006. He was born and raised in New York City and attended CCNY and NYU Graduate School of Business. Colonel Dorian served in the U.S. Marine Corps for 33 years. He was a V.P. of the Bank of New York and
 EDELSTEIN--Julius C.C. Educator, public servant, friend and father. Memorial service celebrating his life, at Hunter College Kaye Playhouse, 68 St. and Lexington Ave., Jan. 24, at 10 AM. Contributions to Hunter College's J.C.C. Edelstein Scholarship Fund, 695 Park Ave, NYC 10021.       
 GRUBER--Maurice. 91, of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Roslyn Heights, NY, passed away on January 20, 2006. He was predeceased by his beloved wife, Sylvia, of 54 years, and survived by his loving children, daughter Alice (Barry) Glassman, son Philip (Carole) Gruber, and cherished grandchildren, A
 GRUMET--Abe H. of Jefferson's Ferry on January 16, 2006. Loving husband of the late Ruth Pearlman Grumet. Devoted father of Madeline Schwan and Diane Grumet. Father-in-law of Bob Schwan. Brother of Hesh Grumet and Helen Baboff. Adored grandfather of Wendy Schwan and Julie Moore. Donations i
 HAMMER--M. Gordon, 87. Died peacefully at home on January 19. Beloved father of Janie (Paul) Knopf, Jonathan (Betty) Hammer, Amanda (Donato) Vaccaro & Ronald (Leslie) Hammer; adored grandfather of Lisa, Julie, Michael, Terrence, Daniel, Jason, David and Kyra; and devoted owner of terrier St
 HERSKOVITZ--Antol, 88. Died on January 18, 2006 after a prolonged illness. He was a pioneer in the field of medical photography. Following 18 years at Montefiore Hospital, he was Director of Media Development at the Health Sciences Center, SUNY Stonybrook until he retired in 1982. Antol is 
 HETLAND--Henry. January 13, of pneumonia at age 93. Lutheran minister in Eau Claire, WI, 1938-39, Muskegon, MI 1939-44; Lutheran campus pastor at University of Wisconsin, 1944-53; executive in Lutheran Campus Ministry, 1953-68; relocation specialist at HUD, 1968-77. His wife of 64 years, Ph
 KING--Roger. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with sorrow the passing of our past President and esteemed member of over 60 years, Roger King. Mr. King will most be remembered for his hard work, dedication and love of the golf course at Quaker Ridge. Mu
 LANDEN - Jamie. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member Mr. Jamie Landen, and offer their deepest sympathy to his mother Susan, his brothers and the entire family. Alpine Country Club Robert Hershan, Presiden
 MORRISSEY--Thomas J. On January 18, 2006. Beloved husband of Clovene. Loving uncle of numerous nieces and nephews. Mr. Morrissey was First Vice President of Smith-Barney Citicorp. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral service Wednesday, 3:30pm, at Frank E. Campbell
 NEBLETT--Dr. Richard F. Of Plainfield on January 16, 2006. Predeceased by his wife Barbara Kibble Neblett. Loving father to Elizabeth Neblett; dear brother to Eugene Neblett; an uncle and godfather. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, January 25, 2006 at 11:30 AM at the United Chu
 STANG--Michael R. Died January 19th, 2006 in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, NY. He was born September 14th, 1937 in Bronx, New York, the son of Harry and Paula Peskin. Would any kin or anyone knowing of any next-ofkin, please contact the Rome DDSO collect at 315-336-2300 with any special fun
 TESLER--Jules. Peacefully at home on January 3, 2006 at age 90. Beloved husband of the late Gertrude, loving father of Michael, Martin, and William, devoted grandfather of Francine, Serena, Deanna, Joseph, and John. He was interred in a private ceremony in New York. He will remain forever i
 Dr. Richard Bellucci, a New York ear surgeon who invented an early instrument for microsurgery that is still in use, died on Dec. 22 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 91 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The death was announced by his family. Dr. Bellucci
 Stephen Papich, a former Hollywood choreographer and stage producer and a biographer of Josephine Baker, died on Dec. 16 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his companion, Robert Wood, said. As a contract choreographer at 20th Century Fox in the wani
 Ibrahim Rugova, the leader of the United Nations-administered Serbian province of Kosovo, died Saturday. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, a statement issued by the presidency said Saturday. Mr. Rugova encompassed the hopes of nearly two million Kosovo Albanians in their
 COTTONE--Paul D. Of New York City, formerly of Morristown, NJ, on January 18, 2006. Beloved husband of Judith Ann (nee Wilhelm). Loving father of Jason, Jeffrey and Jenna Cottone, all of Pennsylvania. He is also survived by his sister, Rosemarie Salsarulo of Boca Raton, FL. A funeral servic
 FRIEDMAN--Michael L. 91, of Roslyn Heights, NY. Died peacefully at home on Saturday, January 20, 2006, of heart disease and cancer. Beloved husband of Lillian, with whom he enjoyed a love affair of 65 years. Devoted father of Marcia and Deborah; grandfather of Rena, Danielle, Suzy, Amy and 
 HARRISON--Marvin, 74, died peacefully after a long illness on Saturday, January 21, 2006. He was happily married to the love of his life, Irene, for 54 years. His ''nachas'' came from his two daughters, Marilyn and Joyce, son-in-law Al, and grandchildren Alex and Andrew. He spent his career
 LEHRER--Milton H. January 21, 2006, in Manhattan, in his 95th year. A Brooklyn native, he distinguished himself at NYU, Harvard Law School, B'nai B'rith, and as a business owner and judge. Recently predeceased by wife Katherine Brod Lehrer. Survivors include children Fred (Holly) Lehrer, Na
 MORRISSEY--Thomas J. On January 18, 2006. Beloved husband of Clovene. Loving uncle of numerous nieces and nephews. Mr. Morrissey was awarded the Silver Star during WWII as a commander of an LST ship. He was First Vice President of SmithBarney Citicorp. He will be deeply missed by all who kn
 BATTLES--Nicholas Asa, 62. of Mystic, CT, on January 5, 2006, an avid sailor, first on Tia Maria, and, in recent years, on MadAnna kept in St. John, VI. A graduate of the Pomfret School and a valued member of the crew team, Nick attended the U. of Pa where a member of Delta Phi, later serve
 BOBROW--Louis. 94, of Jamaica Estates died peacefully at home January 23, 2006. Beloved husband of Ida, his sweetheart of 65 years. Devoted father to Samuel and the late Barbara Bobrow, Laurie and Barry Badner, Philip and Faith Bobrow and Norman and Julia Bobrow. Brother to Irving Bobrow an
 ENDEWELT--Jack, formerly of NYC. Loving husband of Barbara (nee Gilbert). Loving father and father-in-law of Amanda and Richard Eigen. Adored grandfather of Jonathan and Kate. He was affiliated with the School of Visual Arts in NYC for almost 50 years, serving as chair of the Illustration a
 GRUBER--Maurice D. The families of Gene A. Heller and James & Emily Levin note the passing of our beloved uncle Maurice D. Gruber on Friday January 20th in Fla. We, along with his immediate family, mourn his loss.       
 HALPERN--Bernard M. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Bernard M. Halpern. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 HARRISON--Marvin, 74, died peacefully after a long illness on Saturday, January 21, 2006. He was happily married to the love of his life, Irene, for 54 years. His ''nachas'' came from his two daughters, Marilyn and Joyce, son-in-law Al, and grandchildren Alex and Andrew. He spent his career
 LEHRER--Milton H. January 21, 2006, in Manhattan, in his 95th year. A Brooklyn native, he distinguished himself at NYU, Harvard Law School, B'nai B'rith, and as a business owner and judge. Recently predeceased by wife Katherine Brod Lehrer. Survivors include children Fred (Holly) Lehrer, Na
 REYMAN--Gerald of New Rochelle, formerly of Mount Vernon. Owner of Reyman Jewelers. Beloved husband of Bunny, and loving father of Andrea, Randy, Lynn, Jamie and Mark. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Michael, Sarah Beth, Daniel, Aaron, Sarah Elizabeth and Philip. Services today at 1:30 at
 RUBIN -- William S. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our longtime friend and colleague Bill Rubin, director emeritus of the Museum's Department of Painting and Sculpture. Rubin began his career at MoMA in 1967, after sixteen years as a professor of art hi
 SCHWARTZ--Jerome. Passed on January 19, 2006, at age 88. Survived by his loving wife, Eleanor, and devoted father of Dr. Jeffrey of New York City, Richard of Naples, Fl and Dr. Steven of Minneapolis. Grandfather of Jessica, Jason, Jonathan and Eric.       
 STAMM--Eugene B. Died on January 19 in New Orleans after a long illness. He was 87. He worked as an industrial caterer and was also a photographer, gardener and sailor. He will be deeply missed by his daughters Lindsay (David) and Elisabeth (Mario), his grandsons Daniel and Andrew, and his 
 TURCHIN--Les. The Officers and students of the Les Turchin Chabad House at Rutgers mourn the passing of our founder. Les Turchin, whose leadership role bringing Torah and Judaism to the college campus was recognized the world over. We extend condolences to his wife Sharyn, Todd, Tara and en
 KRAUTHAMMER - Marcel. Beloved son (Thea), husband (Joy), father (Aviva), brother (Charles), uncle (Daniel), brother - in - law (Robyn, Faye), friend and teacher. For over 20 years, professor of medicine at UCLA, brilliant pulmonologist, honored clinician and teacher, humanitarian, devoted b
 William Rubin, an art historian and curator who, as director of the Museum of Modern Art's prestigious department of painting and sculpture, played a crucial role in defining the museum's character, collections and exhibitions in the 1970's and 80's, died on Sunday at his weekend home in Po
 ABOULAFIA - Albert. June 26, 1925 to January 23, 2006. Treasurer of the DeMatteis Organizations, decorated World War II veteran. Survived by his wife, Rita, his children David and Matthew, and his grandchildren Alan, Ariana, Jacqueline and Stephanie. Services on Thursday, 10 AM, Riverside M
 ADAMS--John. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our long time member, John Adams. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 BARRETT--Charles Francis. Born in Manhattan, November 28, 1914. Passed away peacefully at home, January 19, 2006, with his family at his side. Son of the late Charles and Helen Barrett. Devoted husband of Marjorie (nee Tracy) Barrett. Dear father of Mary Frances Barrett, Charles Martin Barr
 DAVIDOFF--Ira Gordon. 59, of Berkeley, CA. Ira died suddenly on January 20, 2006. Born to Max and Belva Davidoff and raised in Queens, he was a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and of Harvard Medical School. He was chairman and medical director of Bay Valley Medical Gro
 FISHER--Neal Emmet, MD Died peacefully in his home in Mount Kisco, New York on January 23, 2006. He is survived by Marilyn, his wife of 48 years and his children, Debbie and Naaman Toko, Mimi Fisher & Shane Doyle, David and Aviva Fisher, and his grandchildren Jack and Brendan Doyle, and Ian
 GORMAN--Dorothy. Sutton Place Synagogue extends sincere condolences to our devoted member Barry Gorman and his family on the loss of their beloved mother. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President       
 GRUBER--Maurice D. The families of Gene A. Heller and James & Emily Levin note the passing of our beloved uncle Maurice D. Gruber on Friday January 20th in Fla. We, along with his immediate family, mourn his loss.       
 KRAMER--Frederick. 90. Of Coconut Creek, Florida. Died January 23. Linotypist for the New York Times for 20 years, he was a four-year veteran of World War II and husband of Beatrice for 58 years. He is survived by his wife, two sons, Stuart and Matthew, his sister, Julia, and one granddaugh
 MORRISSEY--Thomas J. The Badminton Club of the City of New York mourns its longtime Director and Secretary. We offer our deepest condolences to his beloved wife, Clovene, and to their family and many friends. The Board of Directors       
 O'KEEFE--Raymond P. Lawyer, Professor of Law Emeritus, Raymond P. O'Keefe, a Lawyer and Law Professor in New York and Florida, died January 22 at the age of 78. A graduate of St. Michael's College in Winooksi, Vermont and Fordham University School of Law, Mr. O'Keefe was also a Professor at
 ROSENBLUM--Walter. Born October 1, 1919, died January 23. Photographer, teacher, beloved father and husband. He will be missed by students, friends and family. Memorial gathering to be announced.       
 SIEV--Rabbi Dr. Asher. The Yeshiva University family mourns the loss of our esteemed professor emeritus of Hebrew literature, an alumnus of Yeshiva College, Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies and Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary and devoted faculty member for 57 years.
 David Weber, a clarinetist, who was one of the last remaining links to the pioneers of American woodwind-playing and went on to become a master teacher, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 92. His son Michael Weber announced the death. He had continued 
 BENNETT--William Lauriston. Of Dedham, Massachusetts and Watch Hill, Rhode Island, 56. Suddenly on January 23, 2006. Beloved husband of Constance Leeds, proud father of Lauriston (James), Corey and William. Devoted son of the late William and Patricia Bennett. Older brother to Catherine, Je
 BROOKS - Louis. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member, Louis Brooks. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 COUPER--Richard W. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its President Emeritus and senior statesman, Richard W. Couper. The first full-time President and chief executive officer of the Library, Mr. Couper provided outstanding leadership during his tenure, from 1971 to 19
 DURANTE--John J., Hon. In his 95th year on January 24, 2006, served as Commissioner of Jurors, County Clerk of Queens, retired. Veteran of U.S. Army Air Force, World War II. Former Chairman of the Queens County Republican Party. Husband of the late Josephine. Father of the late Loretta & Dr
 HAMBRECHT--Edward, 70. Internationally renowned retail architect, who enjoyed a distinguished 40 year career as a leader in the retail design industry, died at home Saturday after a long battle with multiple myeloma. Together with James E. Terrell, he cofounded Hambrecht Terrell Internation
 KING--Roger. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Roger King, a cherished friend of the New York Jewish community whose dedication and generosity strengthened our ability to serve those in need, profoundly impacting millions of lives
 MORSE--Albert L. Of Sausalito, CA., died January 22, 2006; son of the late Irene and Earl Morse. All of us will miss his creative and wonderful spirit and his gentle soul.       
 Allan Temko, a former architecture critic for The San Francisco Chronicle, who won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism in 1990 and wrote a definitive profile of the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris, died on Wednesday in Orinda, Calif. He was 81. He died after a brief illness, his family 
 ALEXANDER--Henry J. Passed away quietly at age 79 on January 23, 2006 after a long struggle with life. His devoted work in the travel industry will long be remembered by many here and abroad. He will be greatly missed by Jacqui, along with his many special friends.       
 BOSTWICK--Dunbar W. Died peacefully in his 99th year on January 25 at Shelburne, Vermont. Predeceased by Electra Webb Bostwick, his wife of forty-nine years, Jeanne Wight Bostwick, his wife of nine years and two daughters, Electra B. McDowell & Lillian B. Davis. Two daughters, Dundeen B. Ca
 CLYNE--Frank. On January 22, 2006. Retired Senior VP of Citi Corp. Beloved brother of Margaret (Kevin) Mansfield, Joseph and the late John, and Rose Braddish. Survived by his sister-in-law Josephine. Beloved uncle of fourteen nieces and nephews. Visitation at Castle Hill Funeral Chapel, 152
 COUPER--Richard W. The Trustees and staff of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation are deeply saddened by the death of Richard W. Couper, President Emeritus and Trustee Emeritus of the Foundation. A wonderfully creative and effective leader, Mr. Couper brought new vigor to the F
 DURANTE--John J., Hon. In his 95th year on January 24, 2006, served as Commissioner of Jurors, County Clerk of Queens, retired. Veteran of U.S. Army Air Force, World War II. Former Chairman of the Queens County Republican Party. Husband of the late Josephine. Father of the late Loretta & Dr
 FREIDENBERG--Edgar I., Jr. 91, Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Jeanne Freund & the late Margaret Watters. Father of Robert, Ken and Janet. Grandfather of Jacob and Hannah. Stepfather of Joseph and Janice Meyer, step-grandfather of Alex and Daniel. President Brittany Fabrics, WWII veteran,
 LINZER--Morton A. Of White Plains, NY and Grantham, NH. Died January 25, 2006 at age 81. He was the President of Linzer Products, Corp. Survived by wife Naomi (Riker) Linzer; children Amy (Robert) Fleischmann, Betsy (Harry) Rickert and George (Hope) Linzer; eight grandchildren and a sister 
 MERTZ -- James McClena han. October 28, 1911 to January 25, 2006. Son of the late Jane McClenahan Mertz and Louis Wiegand Mertz. Predeceased by his wife Allegra Knapp Brickell Mertz. Survived by daughter Allegra Mertz Torrey, Norwalk, CT; stepson James B. Brickell, Jr., Sykesville, MD; gran
 MIRON--Michael. 90 years old. Survived by his loving children Marilyn and Peter Spielman, Eileen and Neil Tannor, Dr. Bruce and Jacqueline Miron, Jonathan and Leslie Miron. His adoring grandchildren Kenneth and Andrew Spielman, Jeremy and Gregory Tannor, Melissa and Richard Miron, Matthew a
 RICHLAND--Sidney, was born August 25, 1913, in New York City, New York, to Jacob and Bertha Richland, passed away on January 24, 2006, in Dallas. Sidney was raised in New York City and worked as a head buyer for Federated Department Stores and was Vice President of Operations for Eva Gabor 
 RUBIN--William. The Sarah Lawrence College community mourns the death of William Rubin, former art history professor and trustee of the College as well as director emeritus of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art. Dr. Rubin, who taught at the College 19521967 and served as a t
 SIEV--Rabbi Dr. Asher. On Sunday, January 22. Born in Jerusalem in 1913, he came to the United States at age 16, received smicha in 1937 and his doctorate in Hebrew Letters in 1939, both from Yeshiva University. Rabbi of Kehillath Israel in the Bronx for almost 30 years and esteemed Profess
 PLEASANT--Charles. Known as ''Pat''. Talented artist and designer. Remembered on the anniversary of his death, and missed by all his friends       
 Richard W. Couper, a prominent foundation executive who was the first full-time president of the New York Public Library, died on Wednesday at a hospital in New Hartford, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Clinton, N.Y. He died after a long illness, according to a spokesman for his alma ma
 Dunbar W. Bostwick, a sportsman who bred and campaigned many winning trotters, founded racetracks and pioneered new gadgets and training techniques for harness racing, died on Wednesday at his home in Shelburne, Vt. He was 98. His death was announced by Christopher W. Davis, a grand
 BOBROW--Louis. The Chernobyl children mourn the passing of the father of Norman Bobrow, a dear friend and cherished supporter. His caring, wisdom and wit will be missed by all who knew him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Ida, his children, and his wonderful grandchildren a
 BOSTWICK--Dunbar W. Died peacefully in his 99th year on January 25 at Shelburne, Vermont. Predeceased by Electra Webb Bostwick, his wife of forty-nine years, Jeanne Wight Bostwick, his wife of nine years and two daughters, Electra B. McDowell & Lillian B. Davis. Two daughters, Dundeen B. Ca
 BROOKS--Louis. The Trustees, faculty, staff and Alumni Association of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art mourn the passing of distinguished alumnist Louis Brooks, Albert Nerken School of Engineering, 1941. We extend our warm condolences to his family. Ronald W. Drucker 
 COUPER--Richard W. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Richard Couper, and send condolences to his family.       
 FREIDENBERG--Edgar I., Jr. 91, Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Jeanne Freund & the late Margaret Watters. Father of Robert, Ken and Janet. Grandfather of Jacob and Hannah. Stepfather of Joseph and Janice Meyer, step-grandfather of Alex and Daniel. President Brittany Fabrics, WWII veteran,
 SPELLER--Jack B. June 14, 1916--January 22, 2006. Received his BS and MS at MIT. Survived by daughter Marjorie Thrall, brother, book publisher, Robert Speller Sr., and nephews, Jon and Robert Jr., all of NYC, and longtime friend, Peggy Presson.       
 TEMKO--Allan B. We mourn Allan, a dear friend for over half a century, the author of Notre Dame of Paris, a Pulitzer Prize winning architectural critic who was a major force for good design in the San Francisco area. A man of strong opinions which he expressed pungently, Allan especially lo
 SILVERMAN--Morris (a/a Marty)/d. A true visionary he was born in 1912 in Troy, N.Y. to Eastern European immigrants of modest means; he worked without interruption from boyhood through his 93rd year. He bravely served his country in World War II entering the U.S. Army as a Private and retiri
 Arthur T. von Mehren, a leading American scholar of international law at Harvard, died on Jan. 16 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 83. His death was announced by Harvard Law School, where he had a teaching career of more than 50 years. The cause was pneumonia, said his identical twin brot
 Bill Rice, an artist, actor, director and scholar, and for decades a linchpin of the now all-but-extinct cultural underground of the Lower East Side, died on Monday in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Mitchell Algus, his New York dealer. He was 74. Mr. Rice studied
 James Bastien, a pianist and educator whose instructional books have been used for more than four decades by millions of eager, and some not-so-eager, piano pupils worldwide, died on Dec. 7 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 71 and lived in La Jolla. The cause was complications of Alzheimer
 BENNETT--William Lauriston. Of Dedham, Massachusetts and Watch Hill, Rhode Island, 56. Suddenly on January 23, 2006. Beloved husband of Constance Leeds, proud father of Lauriston (James), Corey and William. Devoted son of the late William and Patricia Bennett. Older brother to Catherine, Je
 BIENFAIT--Charles, 83. Of Delray Beach, Florida, died on January 25, 2006, formerly of Rye, New York. Survived by his wife, Patricia Doblin; daughters, Terese Blake, Constance Bienfait and Mona Hartley; grandchildren, Chad and Carrie Steers, Ashley, Brent and Owen Blake and Daphne & Samanth
 BOBROW--Louis. 94, of Jamaica Estates died peacefully at home January 23, 2006. Beloved husband of Ida, his sweetheart of 65 years. Devoted father to Samuel and the late Barbara Bobrow, Laurie and Barry Badner, Philip and Faith Bobrow and Norman and Julia Bobrow. Brother to Irving Bobrow an
 BOSTWICK--Dunbar W. Died peacefully in his 99th year on January 25 at Shelburne, Vermont. Predeceased by Electra Webb Bostwick, his wife of forty-nine years, Jeanne Wight Bostwick, his wife of nine years and two daughters, Electra B. McDowell & Lillian B. Davis. Two daughters, Dundeen B. Ca
 BRENNER--Everett. Of Port Washington, NY. Loving husband of Joan. Cherished father of Rick Brenner, Dan and Beth Brenner and Amy and Howard Mitz. Beloved grandfather of Ben, Rebecca, Aden and Jack. Dear brother of Kenneth Brenner & brother-in-law of Billie Diamond. He will be remembered for
 FISHER--Neal Emmet, MD Died peacefully in his home in Mount Kisco, New York on January 23, 2006. He is survived by Marilyn, his wife of 48 years and his children, Debbie and Naaman Toko, Mimi Fisher & Shane Doyle, David and Aviva Fisher, and his grandchildren Jack and Brendan Doyle, and Ian
 FREIDENBERG--Edgar I., Jr. 91, Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Jeanne Freund & the late Margaret Watters. Father of Robert, Ken and Janet. Grandfather of Jacob and Hannah. Stepfather of Joseph and Janice Meyer, step-grandfather of Alex and Daniel. President Brittany Fabrics, WWII veteran,
 FRIER--Charles. Age 84. Loving husband of the late Anna Frier. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather, whose love, patience, generosity and sense of humor is greatly missed. Proud of his Jewish heritage and of his New York City roots, he leaves his family and friends a t
 GALINSKY--David. 71, died suddenly on January 25, 2006. He was a loving husband, father, grandfather, brother, and friend. He was a retired professor at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, and a mentor and confidant to many. He is survived by his wife Maeda, three children, Dana (
 GRUNEBAUM--Robert (Grunie), on January 27, 2006 at age 55. Beloved son of Helen and the late Edward Grunebaum. Loving brother of James and the late Andrew Grunebaum. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 KAYES--Alan. Distinguished World War II veteran, business leader in the field of classical recorded music and patron of the arts, died on January 16 at Central Suffolk Hospital in Riverhead. Mr. Kayes was 93. Mr. Kayes was married to Helen Dunlap who died in 1974. In 1978, he married Cecily
 KREFETZ--Gerald S., 73. Of New York City, died January 27. Beloved father of Nadine and Adriene, husband of the late adored Ruth Marossi Krefetz. A noted financial author and consultant, a provocative thinker with a wry sense of humor, Eagle Scout integrity, and a love of nature, he will be
 LANDSBERGER--Rudy. On January 26, 2006, of Teaneck, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Margot. Devoted father of Joan and Peter Feldman. Proud Opa to Joshua and Jeffrey. Loving uncle of Katinka, Fritz and the late Annemarie. Just shy of his 98th birthday, this ''Little Man'' with a big, strong
 MAXWELL--Grant. Re-Recording Mixer Grant Maxwell died in Hackensack, NJ, on January 3, 2006, after an eight-month battle with Leukemia. He was 47. Grant began his audio career at Regent Sound Studios, over 25 years ago. In 1984 he joined the newly established audio post-production facility,
 MILIUS--Gay Edward III. Artist, writer, explorer, died January 17, 2006, in New York City. He was 59. Brother of Carroll, Mitzi, and Eric. Wry gonzo wit. Generous and loyal to his friends. For one solid week the dogs of the world howled at his passing.       
 MIRON--Michael. 90 years old. Survived by his loving children Marilyn and Peter Spielman, Eileen and Neil Tannor, Dr. Bruce and Jacqueline Miron, Jonathan and Leslie Miron. His adoring grandchildren Kenneth and Andrew Spielman, Jeremy and Gregory Tannor, Melissa and Richard Miron, Matthew a
 SCHILDER--Dr. Herbert. Boston, on January 25, 2006. Husband of Joan (Baylor), father of Richard. He lectured on endodontics at Boston University School of Dental Medicine and around the world. Services, Thursday, February 2, 10AM Temple Israel, Boston.       
 SIEV--Rabbi Dr. Asher. On Sunday, January 22. Born in Jerusalem in 1913, he came to the United States at age 16, received smicha in 1937 and his doctorate in Hebrew Letters in 1939, both from Yeshiva University. Rabbi of Kehillath Israel in the Bronx for almost 30 years and esteemed Profess
 SILVERMAN--Marty. The entire Jarvie Commonweal Service mourns the death of this special man, humanitarian, and philanthropist extraordinaire. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Lorin and the entire Silverman family. Al Snider, Executive Director and CEO $(6$)SILVERMAN--Marty. Yo
 TEMKO--Allan B. We mourn Allan, a dear friend for over half a century, the author of Notre Dame of Paris, a Pulitzer Prize winning architectural critic who was a major force for good design in the San Francisco area. A man of strong opinions which he expressed pungently, Allan especially lo
 TSAO--Lionel. Born October 19, 1924, in Beijing. A 1946 graduate of St. John's College in Shanghai, he was pursuing graduate studies in Political Science at Harvard in 1949, when the Communists took control of China. Cut off from the expectation of service in the Chinese government. Lionel 
 VOGEL--George S., M.D. Died peacefully in his sleep on Thursday, January 26, 2006. For the past five years he resided at Edgehill in Stamford, CT. Born in Brooklyn, May 22, 1912, the second of four children, George was the first son of Sigmund and Bessie Vogel. He earned his B.S. Degree fro
 WORGUL--Basil Vladimir. Passed away January 19, 2006. A Professor for Radiation Biology in Radiology and Ophthalmology at Columbia University which he joined in 1974, he received his B.S. at University Miami (Biology) and his Ph.D. at University Vermont (Cell Biology). He defined the mechan
 WYCKOFF--James, whose understanding and compassion touched the lives of many, died on Tuesday January 24 at the age of 87. The depth and breadth of his thought found expression in his work as a writer and teacher. All those who were related to him by blood, those who cared for him in his fi
 ROSENBLATT -- Seymour, MD. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his son William (MSSM'85) and to the entire family. Barry D. Stimmel, MD Pres. Elliot Rayfield, MD, VP
 PERLBINDER--Arnold. 12 years of memories endure. He was the best of the best. Perlbinder Family       
 Arthur Bloom, who helped define the television newsmagazine concept as the original director of the CBS News program ''60 Minutes,'' died on Saturday at his home in Grandview-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was lung cancer, according to a spokesman for CBS News. Mr. Blo
 PRICE--Ralph. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Ralph Price. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Dorothy and family. Mark Kirschner, President       
 TSAO--Lionel. Born October 19, 1924, in Beijing. A 1946 graduate of St. John's College in Shanghai, he was pursuing graduate studies in Political Science at Harvard in 1949, when the Communists took control of China. Cut off from the expectation of service in the Chinese government. Lionel 
 ZIERLER--Sidney. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member, Sidney Zierler. Deepest sympathy to his daughter Monica and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier       
 Christopher Lloyd, whose gardens at his country house, Great Dixter, and voluminous writings inspired generations of gardeners around the world, died Friday in Hastings, England, near the house, where he was born and lived for 84 years. His close friend and head gardener, Fergus Gar
 Nam June Paik, an avant-garde composer, performer and artist widely considered the inventor of video art, died Sunday at his winter home in Miami Beach. He was 73 and also lived in Manhattan. Mr. Paik suffered a stroke in 1996 and had been in declining health for some time, said his
 APPLETON--John Johnston. 81, on January 30, at home in NYC. Editor, writer, friend of all who crossed his path. Survived by his wife of 43 years, Myra; a brother, William W.; a sister, Tina Bishop; various nephews, nieces, cousings and godchildren. A memorial service to be announced.       
 CULLER--A. Dwight, in his 89th year, on January 27 in Hamden, CT. Distinguished scholar of Victorian literature, professor at Yale University, member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Devoted husband of Helen, father of Beth Culler of Hamden and Jonathan Culler of Ithaca, proud 
 CUMELLA - Charlie. Our hearts cry out in profound sorrow at the loss of our dear friend, Charlie. The world is diminished and its light darkened by his passing. Charlie faced unspeakable odds with courage and enduring optimism. As we mourn his loss, we extend our heartfelt condolences to hi
 HALPERN - Arie. Yeshiva University is deeply grieved on the passing of our cherished friend who, with his beloved wife, Eva, was a Benefactor of our institution and provided scholarship aid for deserving and needy undergraduate students. With his admiring and inseparable brother, Sam (and G
 HAMMERMAN--Marvin Recently of Palm Beach, FL., originally from New York, NY and Newtown, CT., passed away after a long illness on Tuesday, January 24. He was an accomplished businessman in the woodworking industry. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, three sons and five grandchildren.  
 HOWES--Oliver Peck Jr. Died January 29 in Greenwich, Connecticut, at the home of his son Dr. Christopher Howes. He will be missed by all who knew him, including his beloved wife Jennifer Judge Howes, his son and daughters Deborah, Wendy and Cynthia; his five grandchildren and the Judges. Ol
 LEVINE--Alan Richard entered into rest January 29, 2006, of New York City, formerly of Quincy and Randolph, MA. Beloved husband of Barbara (Keough-Forbes) Levine and the late Frances (Kirschbaum) Levine. Devoted father of Leslie and her husband, David Bell, of Quincy, MA., David Levine of T
 MODESTINI--Mario. Art Restorer and Connoisseur of Old Master Paintings, on January 28 at home. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated Thursday, February 2, at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave. and 84th Street, NYC, at 11 AM. Cremation to follow at Greenwood Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY
 PAIK--Nam June. The Trustees and Staff of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation express their profound sadness at the loss of Nam June Paik, a great artist and friend. Paik transformed the arts through his video installations, sculptures, videotapes, television projects, performances, and wr
 SCHNITZER--Raymond Leroy, 84. Died on January 29, 2006, in NYC. Beloved and devoted husband of Shirley. Adored and adoring father of Michael. As a long-time radio announcer at Station WNYC, he hosted many classical music programs, anchored news broadcasts and was the host of a long-running 
 SILVERMAN--Morris. JBI International (established in 1931 as the Jewish Braille Institute) deeply mourns the passing of Morris (Marty) Silverman, a longtime benefactor of JBI's unique services to the blind and visually impaired. In recent years, Mr. Silverman, whose eyesight was failing, us
 SMITH--Karl Beckwith, Jr. of Jamestown, RI, died January 28, 2006 at Sanibel, Fl. He was born February 13, 1916 in New York City. The longest lived survivor of type I diabetes at 84 years. Graduate of St. Pauls School and Princeton University. Engineer and civilian technician in U.S. Navy W
 STEVENS--Harold. Our darling uncle, Harold Stevens, died January 20, 2006 at 89. Artist, author, aviator, angler. Hilariously witty, extraordinarily handsome. We, his nieces, nephews & big brother Nat will think of him every single day. We will cry and laugh all at the same time.       
 WENZEL--John George, 95. Of New Rochelle, New York, died peacefully on January 27, 2006, was born in 1910 in Woodbridge, New Jersey. He worked for IBM in New York, London, and Frankfurt for 25 years before his retirement in Spain. He is survived by his daughter, Sr. Kristen Wenzel, OSU of C
 MATTUS--John D. October 18, 1951-January 31, 1996. ''Forever I will keep my steadfast love for him, and my covenant with him will stand firm.'' Ps.89:28 Kevin B. Brown       
