 Mathew Aaron Kleiner, a former Manhattan prosecutor and advocate for those with H.I.V. infection, especially hemophiliacs like himself, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 31 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was hepatitis and H.I.V. infection, contracted through a blood
 Othar Turner, a Mississippi farmer who kept alive a style of music older than the blues, died on Thursday at the home of his daughter Betty Turner Freeman, said a family friend, Andria Lisle. He was 94 and lived in Gravel Springs, Miss., near Senatobia. Mr. Turner played a cane fife
 ALBUS-Kent. Of Ridgewood, on Saturday, February 22, 2003. Kent joined his beloved wife Delores in eternal rest. Kent was born July 4, 1925, to Virginia and Paul Albus in Brooklyn, NY. He is the beloved father of Paul and Kent MacFarlane (Mac) Albus and his daughter-in-law, Eileen. He was th
 DAVIS - Barry. Our dear friend and partner, Barry was one of the finest people we have ever known. A constant source of inspiration and support, we consider ourselves privileged to have been a part of his life. Our love and thoughts are with his girls, Janet and Joanna. Jim and Peter Kempne
 GOLDBERGER-Tillie. The Goldstein & Morris family wishes to express our condolences to our friend and colleague, Alan, on the passing of his beloved mother.       
 LIFF-Vincent G. A wonderful friend. Inspiring in life and in death. He will be greatly missed by the many whose lives he touched and who loved him so. Scott Rudin       
 MCMAHON-John H., 84. On February 21, at home in Ridgewood, NJ. Noted for accurate polling as radio reporter for New York Daily News. Was SCAA Director of Communications and Legislative Information; his Albany Bulletin widely read and respected. Served on Moreland Commission for social welfa
 STAHL-Nathan. Age 101 of Tuckahoe, NY, passed away on Feburary 27, 2003. A generous man, a beloved man, an admired man, a wonderful man, a man with a twinkle in his eye. He is survived by his grandchildren Barry, Steven, Allison and Mitchell; his granddaughters-in-law Doria and Abbe; and hi
 Roy Grace, an art director who was one of the leading lights during the so-called creative revolution in advertising in the 1960's and 1970's, helping to produce memorable campaigns for brands like Alka-Seltzer, American Tourister and Volkswagen, died on Wednesday. He was 66 and lived in Ne
 Alfred Bernstein, a New Deal lawyer who led the movement to unionize government workers and later helped desegregate the lunch counters, restaurants, public swimming pools and playgrounds of Jim Crow-era Washington, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 92. Mr. Bernstein 
 Dr. Kurt W. Deuschle, a leader in creating medical school programs in community medicine, teaching that understanding local culture is a necessity when providing health care in rural and poor areas, died on Feb. 10 at his home in New York City. He was 79. The cause was complications
 Harvey Probber, a furniture designer whose elegant, innovative modern furniture was popular in the 1950's, 60's and 70's and has recently become collectible, died on Feb. 16 in Greenwich, Conn. He was 80. Mr. Probber, who introduced Americans to sectional, modular seating in the 194
 Mario Perillo, the silver-haired tour operator whose raspy television pitch, ''Go Perillo to Italy,'' persuaded more than a million Americans to visit that country, died Friday at his home in Saddle River, N.J. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Perillo wa
 Maurice Blanchot, a reclusive French novelist and essayist who influenced the postmodernist intellectual movement championed by Jean-Paul Sartre and Michel Foucault, died on Feb. 20. He was 95. Coming of age in the 1930's, Mr. Blanchot was among the first French intellectuals to tak
 BROOKS-Dr. Selig. Podiatrist. On Februry 24, 2003, at age 86. Brother of the late Dr. Martin Brooks. Uncle of William and Barbara Brooks. Granduncle of Matthew and Samantha Brooks, and Mathew Goldstein. Cousin of Ira Grassgreen. Brother-in-law of Sylvia Brooks. He will be missed and remembe
 BUCKWALD-Gary. On February 28, 2003. Loving father of Zachary and Joshua. Beloved son of Sidney and Sareena. Cherished brother of Steven. Devoted companion of Danielle. He will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 CHAMBRE-Kurt. February 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Shawnee. Devoted father of Mark Chambre and his wife Saori. Loving brother of Elsa Wolf and brother-in-law of Virginia Smith. He emigrated from Nazi Germany in 1933 to the United States, was a veteran of WWII as a sergeant in special commu
 DAVIS-Barry. We will miss our friend. He touched our lives with his advice, smile and passion for life. Our sympathy to Joanna and Janet. David and Sally       
 GIBBONS-William J. (Bill). Originally from Cold Spring Harbor, NY and Beverly Hills, CA. Passed away at his Palm Springs, CA residence on February 23, 2003. He is survived by his children Laura Burns, Sally Livingston, and Philip Gibbons, and his four grandchildren. He is also survived by h
 HUBBARD-Thomas T. Resident of Scottsdale, AZ, and Harwich, MA, passed away February 26, 2003, in Scottsdale, AZ. Born in Chicago, IL, he was reared in Maine, and attended Columbia University, where he was a member of the crew and track teams. He was an honorary member of the Orleans Yacht C
 KASS-Michael J. Beloved husband of Alaine. Loving father of Ivy and Craig Ackerman, Perri and Jason Pollak. Dear brother of Richard. Cherished grandfather of Spencer, Jeremy, Nicole and Austin. Services Sunday, 12:15 at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury L.I. KASS-Mich
 KIRCHNER-Karl F. Of Upper Grandview, NY, passed away Tuesday, February 25, 2003. He was born in Nyack, NY, July 24, 1926. A prominent real estate investor and active member of numerous organizations, including former District Governor of the Lions Club, past President of the New York State 
 LAZAROV-Connor. Of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, died on February 27, 2003, at age 65. Mr. Lazarov was a professor of mathematics and computer science at Herbert Lehman College of CUNY from 1968 until his death. Mr. Lazarov received his Ph.D. from Harvard University. His research had been supported
 LEVENTMAN-Julius. On Friday, February 28, 2003, of Fair Lawn, NJ. Cherished and beloved father of Leslie Leventman and David Levent. Former husband of Gladys Leventman, grandfather of Evan Levent, dear brother of Herman and Irv Leventman. Mr. Leventman was an Air Force veteran of WWII, serv
 LEVY-Stephen Jerome. On February 28, 2003, at age 44. Beloved husband of Margaret Harkins Levy. Loving brother of Dorothy Milstein and her husband Stewart, and Jay Levy and his wife Christina. Dear uncle of Jennifer Colbert and Susan Milstein, Adam and David Levy. Services at Frank E. Campb
 MUIR-Ross Lyle Sr., 81, February 14, 2003 of heart attack in Hallowell, ME. Retired as Excecutive Vice President of Mutual Funds of Lazard Freres. Began career as reporter for the Waterville Sentinel (Maine). Joined Forbes in 1951, rose to Associate Managing Editor. In 1954, established fir
 NADLER-Fred B. It is with profound sorrow we mourn the death of Fred B. Nadler on January 17, 2003. Antique dealer and designer specializing in Chinese export porcelain and English and American furniture. Survived by sister Adele Sussman, nephews Robert and David Sussman, niece Ilene Sussma
 PASSIN-Herbert. Died February 26, 2003. World renowned anthropologist and Professor Emeritus of Columbia University, where he served as Chairman of the Sociology Department and Director of the East Asian Institute in the 1970's and 1980's. Also worked as a consultant and adviser to prominen
 RICHMAN - Philip. Passed away on February 27, 2003, at the age of 89. He leaves a loving wife of 65 years, Evelyn, three children, five grandchildren. Dr. Richman was a graduate of CCNY 1934 and Columbia School of Dental Medicine Class of 1938.       
 ROSENBLUM-Kenneth N. Died on February 25, 2003 of cancer. Beloved husband of Patricia. Devoted father of Eryn and Seth. Loving son of Sylvia. Cherished brother of Harriet and Marc. Senior Vice-President at J.P. Morgan Chase. He received his Bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester
 SCHAFFER-Lynn. Beloved daughter of Rhoda and the late George Schaffer; sister of Ronnie and his wife Dianne, niece of Patsy, Abe and Andy, aunt of Darryl and Lauren, friend of many. Ralph mourns your passing; loving Mom to many pets. There will be a graveside funeral Sunday, March 2, 2003, 
 SHULMAN-Abraham. Born in Poland. Holocaust survivor. One of the first resident's of Roosevelt Island, New York. Beloved father, grandfather and great-grandfather. Died February 28. 99 years old. Will be buried Monday. Services 1 PM at Gutterman Chapel in Brooklyn, Flatbush and Avenue V. He 
 STOCK-Julius. Beloved husband and dearest friend of Sylvia (Shanker) died on February 23, 2003. A graduate of Penn State, he had degrees in Metallurgy and Ceramics. He worked on the X-15 and the space shuttle. His children Elizabeth (David Wechsler) and William (Rhonda Gura) and grandchildr
 WALSH-James. The Kaplan family, Ruth, Joe and Ken, mourn the loss of an old and good friend, James Walsh. Although prominent as a philosophy professor at Columbia University, we knew him best as a long time neighbor in Suffern, NY. Mostly we rememeber this warm, one-of-akind as a ski, hikin
 ZIMMERMAN-Blanche. Of Hollywood, FL formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Sam Zimmerman. Loving mother of Sheryl Sherman of Westport, CT, Charles Zimmerman and his wife Laura of Mountainside, New Jersey. Loving grandmother of Carolyn, Richard, Alan, Gregory and Matthew. Service
 Steve Carlin, an ingenious and irrepressible producer of television game shows, including ''The $64,000 Question'' and others that proved to be rigged, died on Feb. 4 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said
 Alfred Bernstein, a New Deal lawyer who led the movement to unionize government workers and later helped desegregate the lunch counters, restaurants, public swimming pools and playgrounds of Jim Crow-era Washington, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 92. Mr. Bernstein 
 Eugene J. Carroll Jr., a retired rear admiral of the Navy who became an outspoken expert witness for opponents of nuclear weapons, high military budgets and new armaments, died on Feb. 19 in Washington. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Margaret. He lived in Al
 Mario Perillo, the silver-haired tour operator whose raspy television pitch, ''Go Perillo to Italy,'' persuaded more than a million Americans to visit that country, died Friday at his home in Saddle River, N.J. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Perillo wa
 CHAMBRE-Kurt. February 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Shawnee. Devoted father of Mark Chambre and his wife Saori. Loving brother of Elsa Wolf and brother-in-law of Virginia Smith. He emigrated from Nazi Germany in 1933 to the United States, was a veteran of WWII as a sergeant in special commu
 FRIMAN-Leon. On March 1, 2003 in Florida. Beloved husband of the late Charlotte. Devoted father of Irwin and Elliot and father-in-law of Leslie and Patrizia. Cherished grandfather of Eli. Loving companion of Peggy Kronstadt. Dear brother of Helen Stein and Shirley Goodman. Services Tuesday 
 GRACE-Roy. Died peacefully on February 26, 2003, after a courageous battle against prostate cancer. Born on December 5, 1936 in NY, Roy lived in this city all his life, and also had a home in Hadlyme, CT. After graduating from the High School of Art and Design, he served in the US Army, and
 LESNICK-John. Age 49. Family and friends mourn the loss of John Lesnick on March 1, 2003. John led a life filled with energy, love and a rare regard for the lives of others. He was an artist, traveler and an activist, member of the board of the former PWA Coalition. He is survived by his si
 LEVY-Stephen Jerome. On February 28, 2003, at age 44. Beloved husband of Margaret Harkins Levy. Loving brother of Dorothy Milstein and her husband Stewart, and Jay Levy and his wife Christina. Dear uncle of Jennifer Colbert and Susan Milstein, Adam and David Levy. Services at Frank E. Campb
 ROSEN-Hyman. 100, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on February 28, 2003. He is survived by his daughters Barbara (Harold) Danenberg, Eileen (Harold) Drobbin; five grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. He was a gentleman who was much loved and will be grea
 ROSS-Morton S. Age 91, of Larchmont, NY, died February 28, 2003. Beloved husband of Alice (Plaut) for 62 years. Loving father of Stephen, Margaret Ross Tobey, James and Anne (Kaufman). Adored grandfather of Samantha, Stephanie, Gary, Scott and Jennifer (Moss). A caring and gentle man who wi
 SMALL-Arnold A. Of Kew Gardens, NY, died March 2, 2003. His devotion, intelligence, sharp wit and generosity will be missed by his family and friends who loved him dearly. Burial Tuesday, 11 AM, at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ.       
 WEISSMAN - Paul. Passed away on March 1, at age 94, at his home in Croton-onHudson, after a long and wonderful life. Beloved husband of Esther for 71 years, devoted father of Joel, Naomi and Judith, cherished grandfather of Bruce, Richard, and Steven and Jane, loving brother of Nettie Feinb
 FREIBERG-Sam. March 17, 1909-March 3, 1996. In these trying times, he would be passionately opposed to war. Decent, honorable and gentle, he never stopped hoping for a peaceful, socially just world. We miss him terribly. The Family       
 Thomas W. Phipps, a versatile playwright and writer for films and television, died on Feb. 20 in Southampton, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Southampton. He was particularly prolific as a television writer. By 1957 he had written more than 60 hour-length television plays. He ca
 ABRAMS-Martin, M.D. It is with sadness that we acknowledge the untimely death of our friend and colleague, Dr. Martin Abrams. Dr. Abrams was one of the founding pediatric surgeons on Long Island. He served with distinction as a member of the staff of Pediatric Surgery at the Long Island Jew
 COLTON-Edward E. Prominent theatrical attorney, died at the age of 97 on February 27, 2003 at his home in Venice, FL. He graduated summa cum laude from New Jersey Law School, now Rutgers in 1927 and practiced law for over 65 years. He represented the Who's Who of American Theatre. In 1993, 
 DE LAND-Colin. The owners and staff of The Armory Show, The International Fair of New Art, mourn the loss of co-founder, colleague and friend, Colin de Land. Colin was an artist, gallerist, and a true visionary in the international contemporary art world for over two decades. Together with 
 FASHENA-Sidney. (September 24, 1914-March 1, 2003). Devoted husband, loving father, dear brother, and loyal, generous friend. Died peacefully at home. Lt. CMDR, USNR, Ret., he joined the reserves in 1936. He was on active duty from December 1941 until May 1946. Truly an officer and a gentle
 FRIMAN-Leon. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of regret that we, the Staff and Families of Friman & Stein Inc, mourn the passing of Leon Friman. His great sense of humor, wit and personality sustained us all each and every day. We will remember all the laughter and good times we 
 GLASER-Sidney. Age 91, on February 8th, 2003. Lovingly remembered by his wife Martha, sisters Bernice and Selma, brother-in-law Sam, daughter Irene, grandchildren Rebecca, Joshua and Abigail, and by his nieces and nephews Susan, Louise, Frederick, Nancy, Lowell and Janet and by their many o
 GRACE-Roy. The Board of Trustees, the Faculty and Staff of The Cooper Union For the Advancement ofScience and Art mourn the passing of Roy Grace, 1962 graduate of the School of Arts, winner of the Augustus St. Gaudens Award and member of the Board of Trustees (1985-91). His unparalleled con
 KESSLER-Gerald. The Abraham Joshua Heschel School community mourns the passing of Gerald Kessler, father of Susie Kessler, father-in-law of Peter Geffen, our Founder. He was a devoted husband to Mollie, as well as a devoted son, father, brother, uncle and grandfather. May his entire family 
 McCARTHY-John, Fr., C.S.C. Easton, MA. 78, Stonehill College's first Alumni Minister and member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, dies March 1st after a battle with cancer. Son of the late John Edward and Mary (Ahearn), brother of Richard F. McCarthy, NYC, uncle of Mary Catherine McCarthy 
 PERILLO-Mario P., 76. Of Saddle River, NJ, died February 28, 2003. Beloved father and father-in-law of Christine and Tom Pepper of Saddle River, NJ; Mark Perillo of Pearl River, NY; Stephen Perillo of Saddle River, NJ and Linda and Albert Zazzali of Park Ridge, NJ. Loving grandfather of Jen
 REYNOLDS-Sheldon. Gifted Writer, Director, Producer. It is with profound sorrow and deep regret that Andrea Reynolds mourns the death of Sheldon Reynolds. He was the gifted wonder child of early American television and will be remembered for his creativity and his humor.       
 SAMUELS-David M. It is with deepest sorrow that we mourn the loss of David M. Samuels on Sunday, March 2, 2003. Loving husband and best friend to Phyllis, adoring and devoted father to Michael and Melissa. He was an exceptional friend who shared his love openly and generously. His gift, the
 TROOP-Roger. Beloved husband of Viola. Died peacefully March 2, 2003 in Aquebogue, L.I. at the family residence. He was 70 years old. Retired advertising Executive and fine artist. Former Head of Brochure Department at Avon Cosmetics and Executive Art Director of Estee Lauder before startin
 WEISSMAN - Paul. Passed away on March 1, at age 94, at his home in Croton-onHudson, after a long and wonderful life. Beloved husband of Esther for 71 years, devoted father of Joel, Naomi and Judith, cherished grandfather of Bruce, Richard, and Steven and Jane, loving brother of Nettie Feinb
 YAGER-Rabbi Ascher M. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary are deeply saddened by the passing of our second oldest rabbinic alumnus at 97 years of age. Rabbi Yager, who was our single largest donor among pulpit rabbis, was a Yeshiva University Guar
 Dr. John E. Fryer, a psychiatrist who electrified his colleagues by telling the 1972 convention of the American Psychiatric Association in a mask that he was a homosexual at a time homosexuality was classified as a mental illness, died on Feb. 21 in Philadelphia. He was 65. The caus
 Goffredo Petrassi, the Italian composer and a leading figure of Italian modernist music in the 20th century, died on Sunday in Rome. He was 98. Mr. Petrassi was noted for his pluralistic exploration of compositional styles. Vestiges of the 16th-century sacred Italian polyphony he wa
 Luis Marden, a writer and photographer who prowled the globe for National Geographic for 64 years, sometimes vanishing for months with little more than a pith helmet, quinine water and a medical kit, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 90. Mr. Marden was one of the last of Geogr
 ABRAMS-Martin. M.D. The Long Island Jewish Medical Center Staff Society sadly records the passing of our irreplaceable friend and colleague, Dr. Martin Abrams. He was an extraordinary, selfless, and devoted pediatric surgeon, and teacher. Dr. Abrams was one of the creative forces behind the
 CASSEL-Sima Netta (Sincoff). On March 3, 2003. Of good heart, true humor, very special, uniquely talented, deeply loved by family and many friends; raised and educated in Brooklyn; an accompished artist and pianist. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Louis Cassel, assisting him and congregants 
 FARINA-James J. Jr., 67 years old of Katonah, N.Y. and Juno Beach, FL, died on March 3, 2003 in Boston, MA. He was Co-Founder and longtime President of West-Fair Electrical Contractors of Hawthorne, N.Y. Husband of Geraldine, father of Melissa (David) Concannon, James J. (Eileen) Farina III
 MOLFETAS-Theodore C. On March 3. He was 75. Beloved husband of Agglaia, loving father of Christos and Marianthi Molfetas, DDS. He is also survived by a brother, two sisters and many other loving relatives. Friends and family may call at the Riverdale Funeral Home, 5044 Broadway, NYC. (212 9
 SAMUELS-David M. It is with deepest sorrow that we mourn the loss of David M. Samuels on Sunday, March 2, 2003. Loving husband and best friend to Phyllis, adoring and devoted father to Michael and Melissa. He was an exceptional friend who shared his love openly and generously. His gift, the
 SCHOECK-John. Of Quogue, New York, on March 2, 2003. Proprietor of John's Swimming Pools. Survived by his wife Linda, daughter Haley, mother Vivian, brothers Dave and Rob, sisters Ellen and Jane. Reposing Friday 24 and 7-9, at the Follett & Werner Funeral Home, 60 Mill Road, Westhampton Bea
 SERLIN-Lawrence D. Of Bayside, NY and Hallandale, FL. Died March 2, 2003 in his 100th year. Husband of the late beloved Dorothy. Devoted father of Anne & Joseph Ehrlich, Janet & Ron Garber and Gerald & Susan Serlin. Grandfather of six, great grandfather of four & brother of Rita Fleischer. 
 WEISSMAN - Paul. Passed away on March 1, at age 94, at his home in Croton-onHudson, after a long and wonderful life. Beloved husband of Esther for 71 years, devoted father of Joel, Naomi and Judith, cherished grandfather of Bruce, Richard, and Steven and Jane, loving brother of Nettie Feinb
 Colin de Land, a New York art dealer whose ambivalence about commercialism was reflected in an art gallery that sometimes resembled an anti-art gallery, if not a work of Conceptual Art, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 47. The cause was cancer, said Dennis
 Dr. Harold Amos, a microbiologist at the Harvard Medical School who campaigned for decades on behalf of minority scientists in higher education and was widely recognized for wielding his influence to open doors for other blacks, died on Feb. 26 in Boston. He was 84. The cause was co
 Kenneth Auchincloss, a veteran writer and later a top editor at Newsweek, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was complications of liver cancer, said Richard Smith, chairman and editor in chief of Newsweek. Mr. Auchincloss joined Newsweek in 1966 a
 ABRAMS-Martin. It is with deep sorrow that Children's Medical Fund of New York mourns the passing of a valued member Martin Abrams. We honor him for his role in the creation of CMF and his strong belief in the need of a local medical facility dedicated to the care of children. Our condolenc
 AMOS-Harold. The Board of Directors and staff of the Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation record with deep sorrow the death on February 26th of Dr. Harold Amos, an Honorary Director of the Foundation and member of the Board since 1974. We mourn the loss of our good friend and distinguished colleague
 AUCHINCLOSS - Kenneth. Age 65 of New York City and Colebrook, CT., on Monday March 4, 2003. Husband of Lee, father of Malcolm and Emily. Memorial services will be held next week and will be announced in a later notice. AUCHINCLOSS - Kenneth. The Board of Trustees and the staff of th
 CASPER-Harry. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Harry Casper and extends heartfelt sympathy to his son Michael and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 KIRSON-Arthur. On February 28. He was a dear friend and cousin, and a great teacher, actor and performer. He will be missed by all who loved him. A graveside service will be held on Friday, March 7, 1:00 PM, Mt. Moriah Cemetery, Fairview, NJ (201943-6163). In lieu of flowers, please make co
 SUROWITZ-Solomon, Esq. Died at home Tuesday morning, after battling lung cancer. He was the last surviving prosecutor of the Buchenwald and Dachau war trials. Law was his life. He is survived by his wife, Suzette; his daughter, Shane, and his son, Jean-Marie. At his request no funeral servi
 UNTRACHT-Dr. Samuel. On March 3, 2003 at age 92. Beloved husband of Claire, devoted father of David and Howard Forman. Much loved brother and uncle. Cherished friend to many, dedicated physician and Professor Emeritus of New York Medical College. Respected colleague at Metropolitan Hospital
 Roger M. Needham, a leading computer scientist who did pioneering work on security software, led Cambridge University's computer science laboratory for 15 years and started Microsoft's first overseas research lab, died Friday at his home in Coton, England. He was 68. The cause was c
 John Edwards, an illiterate former barman from the East End of London who was the artist Francis Bacon's closest friend in the last 16 years of his life and the sole heir to his paintings and properties, died on Tuesday in Bangkok. He was 53. The cause was lung cancer, lawyers for t
 AUCHINCLOSS - Kenneth. The Chapin School is deeply saddened by the death of Kenneth Auchincloss who served with dedication and distinction on the Board of Trustees from 1990-1996. His humanity, warmth and humor touched the lives of so many in the school community. He will be sorely missed. 
 COPLIN-Irwin. On March 6th at age 74. Quietly in his own home from pancreatic cancer. Irwin had a successful career in advertising, sales promotion and business development for 55 years, most recently serving as Vice Chairman of the National Board of Directors of SCORE, and working on behal
 GIFFUNI-Andrew L. On March 5, 2003, six weeks prior to his 90th birthday. Beloved husband of Alice. Loving father of Vincent Q. and his wife Mary Ann and Nini and her husband Bart Tiernan. Proud grandfather of Matthew Q. and Sara F. Giffuni and Olivia A. and Julia B. Tiernan. Brother of Ame
 GOLINKIN-Rabbi Noah. The directors, officers, faculty and students of the Schechter Institute of Jewish Studies in Jerusalem extend their heartfelt sympathy to the President of the Institute, Rabbi David Golinkin, and his family on the death of his father, Rabbi Noah Golinkin of Columbia, M
 KATZELL-Raymond A., 83. A beloved professor of Industrial and Organizational Psychology, and influential in his field as Peter Drucker was in Economics, died February 5, 2003. Deeply mourned by the NYU Psychology Dept., he as its Chair from 1963 to 1972 guided it to eminence. He authored tw
 NIEHUSS-Marvin Lemmon. Educator, dies at 100. Professor Marvin L. Niehuss, who had a distinguished career as a teacher and administrator at the University of Michigan, died on Monday in Ithaca, New York. He was 100 years old. Upon his retirement from Michigan in 1973, the Regents of the Uni
 QUINTANA-Manuel Ignacio. Died in Ft. Lauderdale, FL on February 28, 2003. Born October 25, 1914 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, son of its ambassador to Denmark and grandson of its president, he lived life in New York, Buenos Aires, the Caribbean and Florida full of adventure, change, vision fo
 RUDES-Herbert, 86. Beloved husband of Betty. Loving father to Barbara Lane (Edward) and Mark (Linda). Loving grandfather to Nicole Lane (Joseph), Michael and Alissa Rudes and greatgrandfather to Ariana. Loving stepfather to Judith Skurnik (Michael) and Adam Gendell and loving grandfather to
 SHORE-Michael I. 89, died peacefully on Wednesday, March 5. He is survived by his four daughters, nine grandchildren, and his beloved friend Doris Grubel. Mr. Shore was predeceased by his wife Mary Kozak Shore. Funeral service in FL, March 7. Donations to: WestchesterFairfield Hebrew Academ
 SILBER-Louis, 85. On Wednesday, March 5th. Beloved husband of Theresa nee Kohn. Father of Daniel Silber and Deborah Friedman. He will be deeply missed by his five grandchildren and his sister, Henrietta Scheiner. He was the former chairman of the Social Studies Dept of Far Rockaway High Sch
 SINGER-Dr. Frederic, 92. Died on March 6, 2003. Admired physician in Yonkers, NY and avid world traveler. He was the beloved husband of Sidonia, devoted father of Deborah, Michael and daughter-in-law June, grandfather of David, Sam, Julie, Abe and Patrick, and big brother to Gerald, Arthur 
 WILSON-Professor Everett E. Wurzweiler School of Social Work of Yeshiva University mourns a former colleague and professor emeritus. A founding faculty member, he played an important role in the development of Wurzweiler. Dr. Sheldon R. Gelman, Dorothy and David I. Schachne Dean, WSSW David
 TOM-James. Age 54, of Boston, MA, died on Feb. 22, 2003. He is survived by daughter Farrah, mother Mery Chin, sisters Joan and Rose and brothers Lat Min, Ling Min, Tim and Dominic, brother-inlaw David Tsai and sister-inlaw Donna Tom. He is also survived by nephews Michael, Steven, Thomas an
 Peter Smithson, an influential British architect and teacher who, with his wife, Alison, infused the pure formalism of modern design with a broader concern for the social environment, died on Monday at home in London. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Simon.    
 Dr. Alexander R. Stokes, the scientist and mathematician who discerned in 1950 that DNA is helical in shape and provided a solid foundation for the discovery of the double helix three years later, died in Welwyn Garden City, a London suburb, on Feb. 5. He was 83. When Dr. Francis Cr
 G. Stuart Keith, a champion bird-watcher who was a founder of the American Birding Association and who at one time had a good claim to having seen more birds than anyone else alive, died on Feb. 13 while on a bird-watching expedition to the Micronesian island of Chuuk, sometimes called Truk
 GIFFUNI-Andrew. The real estate industry has lost one of its master builders with the death of Andrew Giffuni on Wednesday, March 5th. Andy and his brother Joseph created Giffuni Brothers in 1947. They built thousands of affordable apartments throughout New York City. Andrew established the
 LAX-Mildred. The Ellis Island Restoration Commission extends its heartfelt sympathy to our President, Philip Lax, on the loss of his beloved wife Millie. Our sincere sympathy to his family. Norman Liss, Chairman of Development Jacqueline Beusse, VP August Bolino, VP Set Charles Momjin, VP E
 LEVY-Martin A. Died at home March 7th, with his devoted wife Muriel by his side, after a courageous battle with cancer. Father of Robert, Lawrence (Susan) and Sharon Kurtz (Michael). Grandfather of Jacob, Todd, and Rachel Levy, Alyssa and Miles Kurtz. Devoted brother of DorisAnne Wasserman.
 RUDES-Herbert. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Betty, and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 SAR-Eli, M.D. Age 81. Died March 6, 2003. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Melvin (Cathy) and Alan (Shelly). Adored grandfather of Sarah, Jonathan and Amanda. Brother to Esther Zuroff. He was a graduate of Yeshiva University, N.Y.U., Creighton Medical School. He was a Captain, U.S
 SHAINWALD - Sidney. On March 7, 2003 died at age 86. He had a distinguished career as a consumer advocate and certified public accoutant. He was active in the consumer movement at Consumer's Union, publisher of Consumer Reports, from its birth until his retirement as Associate Director in 1
 SHOPKORN - Charlotte. March 6, 2003. Beloved wife of the late David A. Shopkorn. Devoted mother of Stanley and his wife Tracy and Edward and his wife Susan. Cherished grandmother Jana, Adam, Maxwell, Amy, Kate, Nicole and Danielle and great grandmother of Alex. Devoted sister of Charles Lev
 Felix Landau, an art dealer who had owned a prestigious gallery in Los Angeles, died on Feb. 17 at his home in Garches, a suburb of Paris. He was 78. The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said. Mr. Landau married Mitzi Ruth Ander in 1948, and in 1951 they fou
 Herbert Passin, a distinguished scholar of Japan, who was chairman of Columbia University's sociology department and taught at its East Asian Institute, died on Feb. 26 in New York. He was 86. The cause of death was heart disease, according to his stepson, Scott Latham. Prof
 BEILLY-Stewart L. Beloved husband of Hope. Loving father of Bradford, Orrin and Adam. Dear brother of Roslyn Schlansky. Respected Senior Partner in the Law Firm of Shapiro, Beilly, Rosenberg, Aronowitz & Levy. Services will be held at 12 noon on Monday, March 10, at ''Parkside'' Chapel, Que
 FRIEDMAN - Dr. Ronald Marvin. Of Riverdale, NY, born April 26, 1930, in Brooklyn, NY, beloved husband, father and grandfather, accomplished molecular biologist. Horace Mann graduate 1950, B.S. in Zoology and Chemistry Columbia University 1960, M.S. Cardiovascular Physiology N.Y.U. 1967, Ph.
 GIFFUNI-Andrew L. On March 5, 2003, six weeks prior to his 90th birthday. Beloved husband of Alice. Loving father of Vincent Q. and his wife Mary Ann and Nini and her husband Bart Tiernan. Proud grandfather of Matthew Q. and Sara F. Giffuni and Olivia A. and Julia B. Tiernan. Brother of Ame
 GORDON - Howard. On March 2, 2003. Beloved husband of Sandra. Loving father of Michael (Sandi) and Peter (Bari). Proud grandfather of Joshua, Matthew, Melissa and Lindsay. Cherished sonin-law of Ann Halpern. Sweet, gentle, caring. He will be missed by all that knew him. Services were held, 
 HEMION-Malcolm Land. 73, of Point Pleasant Beach, NJ, formerly of Verona, NJ, New York City, and Mantoloking, NJ, died at Brick Hospital, March 5. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 39 years, Judith Ann (Hawie) Hemion. Surviving are his son, Eric Hemion, and his brother and sister-in-law, D
 LINDBERG - Timothy J. Passed away on March 3, 2003. Tim was loved by family, friends, opera colleagues and students at USC. He was cherished by life-partner Gilbert Mendoza. Beloved son of Betty Lindberg and the late Dale Lindberg. Devoted brother of Dale and Kim Lindberg; Candy & Larry Pla
 LOWENFELD-Sally. 81, died March 5, 2003. Sister of Bernice Waldbaum. Beloved mother of Marguerite and Russell and his wife Wendy. Adoring grandmother of Jessica, Adam, Daniel and Lindsay. A wonderful woman who brought joy to many.       
 MALLORY-Stephen, 74. Of Middleburg, VA., and longtime resident of NYC, died February 27, 2003. He was born in Boston. After serving in the Army during WWII, he graduated from Parsons School of Design in NYC. He created with James Tillis the renowned design firm of Mallory Tillis, which late
 MILLER-Howard. The entire Sage family mourns the passing of Howard Miller, a devoted partner to Lillian Sage for 20 years and a caring friend to the families of Ann, Malcolm and Martin. His warmth, honesty and broad smile will be deeply missed. Howard shared his zest for life with us with a
 NODELL-Paul H. (''Doc''), Ed.d., Educator. Beloved husband, father of many sons and daughter, grandfather, lived a life worth living. Survived by wife Celeste, daughter Diane (Mitch), granddaughter Sarah, son Dick. We will deeply miss the love and guidance of this genuine and generous man. 
 RYCHETNIK-Joseph S., 76. Of Point Richmond, CA. passed away on March 5th of heart failure. Joe was an author of 3 books and a staff writer for 2 magazines. He was a well regarded photojournalist and worked with National Geographic, Time/ Life, and many other publications. Joe was also a rac
 SAR-Eli, M.D. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a truly distinguished alumnus of Yeshiva College ('41) who served with devotion as the Medical Director of YC and Stern College for Women for 50 years. He was a kind, caring, sincere personality, following in the noble tradit
 SCHUTZ-Nathan R., O.D. Died February 27, 2003, in San Francisco, CA. Widower of the late Ruth Goldsholl Schutz; beloved father of Thomas Schutz and Carol Winetsky, and father-in-law of Henry P. Winetsky, cherished grandfather of Michael and Daniel Winetsky. A true gentleman, he will be deep
 SHAINWALD - Sidney. On March 7, 2003 died at age 86. He had a distinguished career as a consumer advocate and certified public accoutant. He was active in the consumer movement at Consumer's Union, publisher of Consumer Reports, from its birth until his retirement as Associate Director in 1
 SHOPKORN - Charlotte. March 6, 2003. Beloved wife of the late David A. Shopkorn. Devoted mother of Stanley and his wife Tracy and Edward and his wife Susan. Cherished grandmother Jana, Adam, Maxwell, Amy, Kate, Nicole and Danielle and great grandmother of Alex. Devoted sister of Charles Lev
 Peter Dimitroff Petroff, a NASA engineer and later an inventor whose enterprises developed heart-monitoring equipment and originated the digital wristwatch 30 years ago, died Feb. 27 at his home in Huntsville, Ala. He was 83. He had been in failing health since retiring last year as
 BEILLY-Stewart. Arlene and Ben Morelli deeply mourn the death our dear friend with whom we have shared many good times during our close relationship. Our profound condolences to his dedicated wife, Hope, and their three sons, Brad, Orrin and Adam. He will be greatly missed and will always r
 GILLILAND-Oliver Holmes. 54, on March 1, at home in Oakland, CA, after a brief battle with cancer. Revered member of the book community on both coasts, worked for W.W. Norton & Co. for 21 years. Survived by his mother, Katherine Parks Pyle of Topeka, KS. A dear friend to all who knew him. S
 GOLDSTEIN-Michael. The Golomb Cousins Club mourns the loss of one of its dear members. He will be sorely missed.       
 JUSTER-Kenneth W. Died peacefully on March 7, 2003, at age 60 after heroically battling cancer. Survived by his loving wife Barbara, beloved daughter Stefanie, and sister Constance. A friend to many with whom he shared his love of music, books and culture. He will be greatly missed by all w
 ZITTER-Samuel. Age 80, formerly of Cedar Graove, NJ, died March 9, at home in Monroe Township, NJ. His political activism on behalf of human, civil, and women's rights spanned over half a century. He served as State Chairman of Americans for Democratic Action for 40 years, and was the prime
 Gilbert W. Beebe, an expert on radiation who had a crucial role in studies of survivors of the atomic bomb attacks on Japan and the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, died on March 3 in Washington. He was 90. As a member of the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission,
 José Márcio Ayres, a zoologist who sought to save large swaths of rain forest in the Amazon Basin by enlisting the self-interest of its indigenous people in the effort, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 49 and lived most of the time in Belém, his native city, at
 AYRES-Dr. Jose Marcio. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the loss of their distinguished senior conservationist, Dr. Jose Marcio Ayres. For over 20 years, Dr. Ayres worked with local people to protect the wildlife and wild places
 BAUM-Stephen Lawrence, 43. Of New York City on March 7, in Verbier, Switzerland. Son of Isabel Merritt and the late Dr. Thomas Baum, stepson of Arnold Merritt, brother of Lisa Baum and Valerie Riuli, brother-inlaw of Steven Riuli, uncle of Allyson & Tessa, dear friend of Laurence Burger. Fu
 BEILLY-Stewart. Arlene and Ben Morelli deeply mourn the death our dear friend with whom we have shared many good times during our close relationship. Our profound condolences to his dedicated wife, Hope, and their three sons, Brad, Orrin and Adam. He will be greatly missed and will always r
 BODINI - Alexander. Our heartfelt sympathies on the loss of their beloved son, Alexander, to his mother Toni and his father Daniele, and his entire loving family, the Goutals and Kramers. The Owen Morrissey Family       
 CULLINEN-Captain George Ambrose Jr. on Monday, March 3, 2003 at age of 88. He is survived by loving wife of 62 years Sonia and two children Cydney Palencia and Robbin George Cullinen and five grandchildren and two great grandchildren. A Celebration of his life was attended by over 200 frien
 DANKOFF-Ruben A. Following a distinguished career in the legal and bowling industries, Ruben A. Dankoff of Tenafly, New Jersey passed away on March 9, 2003 following a prolonged illness. He was 92. Mr. Dankoff graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Rochester in 1932 and from Harvar
 FEINERMAN-Aaron S. On March 9, 2003. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father to Shellie and Steven Zuckerman, Bonnie and Paul Winston, Robin Feinerman, Robert and Lori Feinerman. Adored grandfather to Glenn and Heidi Zuckerman, Brett and Robin Zuckerman, T.J. and Ross Zuckerman, Jordan an
 GOODKIND-Walter Larney. Age 94. Of NYC. Passed away February 22, 2003. Was a talent agent for Universal Pictures, a personal manager and literary agent with his wife Karen for classical singers and musicians including William Warfield and Leontyne Price. Survived by his son, daughter-in-law
 JACOBSON-Julius F. Passed away on March 8, 2003. Julius was the beloved father of Michael Jacobson, father-in-law of Lynn Chancer and grandfather of Alexander Jacobson. Adored husband of Phyllis Jacobson. He will be missed profoundly by his family, friends and colleagues in the democratic s
 JUSTER-Kenneth W. Died peacefully on March 7, 2003, at age 60 after heroically battling cancer. Survived by his loving wife Barbara, beloved daughter Stefanie, and sister Constance. A friend to many with whom he shared his love of music, books and culture. He will be greatly missed by all w
 KAHN - Leonard. One hundred and a half years. Died March 8. Husband of departed Stella. Father of Marjorie Greene and Richard Kahn. Grandfather and great grandfather. An optimist who loved all people and his family. Services at Mt. Ararat, Farmingdale, L.I., Wednesday, March 12, at 11:00AM.
 LIFSEN-Albert A. was born in Poland in 1911 and came to the USA at age 12. He lived on the lower East Side with his aunt and sister, went to school, learned English and became a stock boy for a clothing manufacturer at a young age. He worked hard, and in his 20's started his own manufacturi
 SPIRA-Ruth. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its distinguished member, Mr. Harvey Spira. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 STEINBERG-Everett. The members of Scarsdale Synagogue - Tremont Temple mourn the death of Everett Steinberg, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our condolences to his wife Maxine, his children Alan and Jeremy and the entire family. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Gerald L. Cohen, Presi
 WHITCOMB-Arthur Bryant, 78, on Saturday, March 8, 2003 at home in Rancho Mirage, CA. Beloved husband of Meg Whitcomb (nee Whittle). Loving father of Michael of Pawling, NY; Lindsay of Yonkers, NY; Peter Bruce of New York City; Glenny of Chilton, WI; Mary Paribello of Sherman Oaks, CA, and A
 Fred Danback, a former janitor and lover of the Hudson River who started one of the earliest successful battles against industrial pollution of the river, died on Monday at his home in Putnam Valley, N.Y. He was 79. The cause of death was an aortic aneurysm, his son Bruce said.     
 BLUM - Maxwell V. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Maxwell Blum, and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Eleanor and his daughter, our estee
 BODINI-Alexander, in loving memory. The members of the Board of Directors, the staff and all the volunteers of the American-Italian Cancer Foundation extend their deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Alexander Bodini, beloved son, brother, grandson and friend. He will be dearly mis
 FEINERMAN-Aaron S. Loving husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. Founding member and pioneer of the Great Neck Synagogue and North Shore Hebrew Academy. Biblical and Talmudic scholar, avid golfer, ASF 45. You were the heart and soul of our family. Your voice, your prayer, your 
 HYLTON-Hal. Born May 27, 1940 died March 8, 2003. Retired Vice President of Pacificare Healthcare, Orange Co., CA. C.E.O. of Spaghetti Pot Inc. He is survived by his children Michael C. Hylton, Seattle, WA., and Julie A. (Dennis) Fredricks, Escondido, CA. Also survived by his twin granddaug
 STEINBERG-Everett J. On March 8, 2003, of Irvingtonon-Hudson, New York, formerly of Woodmere, NY. Beloved husband and best friend of Maxine (Burdow) for 52 years. Respected and much loved father of Jeremy and Alan and his wife Mindi. Adored grandpa of Andrew and dear step-grandfather of Jor
 WARDELL-Charles W.B. Jr., 89. Of Naples, FL and Cold Spring Harbor, NY died peacefully on Saturday, March 8, 2003. Loved husband of the late Elsa Talbot Adam; Brother of Jane Babeuf and the late Calvin; Father of Wendy Chamberlin, Charles W.B. III, Christopher C. and David A.; Grandfather o
 WHELAN-Michael J., 72. Of New York, on March 11, 2003. Graduate of Notre Dame and Columbia Law School. Survived by his son Geoffrey and his wife Lisa Neary, grandchildren, Oliver and Eleanor, brother of James F. Whelan Jr., Mariellen Whelan, and Julie Considine. Visiting on Thursday, March 
 Stan Brakhage, one of the leading figures in American experimental cinema, died on Sunday in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 70. The cause was cancer, his wife, Marilyn, said in a statement. In a career that in the early 1950's and continued until the last weeks of his li
 Claus Helberg, a hero of the Norwegian resistance in World War II and principal architect of his country's mesh of year-round mountain trails, died last Thursday. He was 84. He suffered a heart attack, the Norwegian press reported from Oslo. Mr. Helberg, a lifelong skier and
 Howard Fast, whose best-selling historical fiction often featured the themes of freedom and human rights, elements in his own tumultuous political journey through the blacklisting of the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 88. Mr. Fast was one of the 20
 PURNICK-Richard L., 69. Died March 12, 2003 after a courageous battle with kidney cancer. Loving husband of Marjorie, devoted father to Gary (deceased), Steven, Tara, Daniel, Jeremy, Lauren and father-in-law to Rob, David and Halli. Caring and generous grandfather to Joseph, Madeline, Sam, 
 SHEA-Mortimer C., prominent defense attorney and father of sixteen, of New York City, age 73, on March 11. Much loved husband of Dorothy; devoted father of Kathleen, Patricia, Jeannie, Dorothy, Mortimer Jr., Mary, Theresa, Anne, Veronica, Thomas, Margaret, Daniel, Helen, Mark, Matthew and A
 STEINBERG-Everett J. On March 8, 2003, of Irvingtonon-Hudson, New York, formerly of Woodmere, NY. Beloved husband and best friend of Maxine (Burdow) for 52 years. Respected and much loved father of Jeremy and Alan and his wife Mindi. Adored grandpa of Andrew and dear step-grandfather of Jor
 SULLIVAN-Sean J., age 45, resident of Southampton, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully March 11, 2003 in Florida after a brief illness. He was predeceased by his parents, R. Peter & Catherine Sullivan. He is survived by his brothers, R. Peter and Kevin P., his sisters, Maureen Brookman, 
 WEICHER-Sidney, 82. Of Cold Spring, NY, and Ft. Lauderdale, FL, formerly of New Rochelle, NY, on March 8. Devoted husband, father, grandfather, uncle, business partner, and friend. He will be terribly missed by all who knew and loved him. Service on March 13, 12PM, Clinton Funeral Home, Col
 WICHERN - Anne Davis, M.D., 78, New York. Loving and devoted wife of Walter and dedicated mother to Adam and Logan, died March 9. Anne was a distinguished physician at Bellevue Hospital for over 50 years and Professor Emeritus at NYU, a former board member and president of American Lung Ass
 Gen. Wallace M. Greene Jr., who commanded the Marine Corps early in the Vietnam War, died last Saturday in Alexandria, Va. He was 95. General Greene was promoted to four-star rank and commandant of the corps in 1964, when American marines in Vietnam numbered only in the hundreds. Bu
 John G. Dow, a staunchly liberal Democrat from the lower Hudson Valley who was one of the earliest Congressional opponents of the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday in Suffern, N.Y., near his home in Pomona. He was 97. In May 1965, four months after taking office as a freshman congressman
 BERNSTEIN - David M. ''Dudle.'' Best friend and husband for 54 years of Shirley. Loving father of Jeffrey and Sandy, Tina and Arthur, Howard and Beth. Devoted Zeibe to Channa, Lauren, Sarah, Eric, Jamie, Meira and Carrie. Lifelong lover of music and Yiddish Keit. An advocate for social just
 BRILL-William Woodrow. Of Greenwich Village and North Truro, MA, died on Cape Cod Tuesday, March 11, 2003. He was born August 26, 1918 in Brooklyn, N.Y. He graduated from James Madison High School and later graduated from Yale University, Class of '39. He was an original member of the Commi
 de CASTELLA-Jean. The Bard College community mourns the passing of Jean de Castella, a longtime friend, neighbor, and former trustee, whose support of the college and its programs will leave a lasting mark. He will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Leon Bots
 FAST-Howard. We honor the memory of Howard Fast. Courageous author, American hero, beloved friend and grandfather. Erica Jong, Ken Burrows and Molly Jong-Fast FAST-Howard. His was a life that mattered. It gave hope and courage to many. He was principled, a brave man, and we respecte
 KOVNER-Richard Allen, 63, Locust, NJ on Tuesday, March 11. He was a futures broker and entrepreneur. A graduate of Stanford University. Survived by his wife Joyce, daughter and son-inlaw Shayne and Chris Winn, brother of Bruce and Susan. Predeceased by his parents Sophie and Isidore, and si
 LEVINSON-Dr. Sol. Born in Brooklyn, NY on December 17, 1926 to Bluma and Morris Levinson. Survived by his wife, Anita, his four children, Mark, Shana, Nathan, Kevin, and seven grandchildren. Dr. Levinson practiced internal medicine in Monmouth County, NJ and Florida for over 45 years. We wi
 STEINBERG-Al A., passed away on March 12, 2003, after a courageous battle with illness. Beloved husband of Beula, devoted brother to Helen Zousmer, cherished father of Howard and Miriam, Robert, Steven and Carol. Much loved uncle. Caring and generous grandfather to Elyse, Samantha, Alex, Da
 SULLIVAN-Sean J., age 45, resident of Southampton, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully March 11, 2003 in Florida after a brief illness. He was predeceased by his parents, R. Peter & Catherine Sullivan. He is survived by his brothers, R. Peter and Kevin P., his sisters, Maureen Brookman, 
 BATTAGLIA-August J. March 14, 1973. On the 30th anniversary of his death. A wise and just man, compassionate of heart and magnanimous of spirit. Remembered always with love and gratitude by his daughters and son-in-law, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren & dear friends.       
 Edward E. Colton, a theatrical lawyer who was an innovator in the financing of Broadway musicals and plays, died on Feb. 27 at his home in Venice, Fla. He was 97. Mr. Colton was a summa cum laude graduate in 1927 from New Jersey Law School, now Rutgers. He practiced law for 65 years
 BOHNER-William F. Of Westhampton, New York formerly of Manhasset, NY on March 13, 2003 at the age of 75. His wife Margaret of 50 years, seven children, Susan LaVista, Mimi Dunn, William, Mark, Laura, Tricia and Bob Bohner & ten grandchildren survive him. Reposing on Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 PM at
 de la Garza-Alexander Manuel II. On March 13, 2003 at age 39. Beloved son of Dr. Anita de la Garza Heller and the late doctor Alexander Manuel de la Garza. Loving brother of Luis, Ana Luisa, Julia and Andree. Dear nephew of Venise Trafton, Chris Karageorge and his wife Laura Lisa and Svyla 
 STEINBERG-Al. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Al Steinberg on March 12, 2003, and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Execu
 VALAURI - Dr. Augustus John, a pioneer in oral and maxillofacial reconstruction, passed away on Thursday at his home in Rye, New York at the age of 83. He was a graduate of Stuyvesant High School, Manhattan College and New York University College of Dentistry. During World War II, he served
 Robert Mitchell Hanna, who taught urban landscape architecture at the University of Pennsylvania and made it work in places like Battery Park City, died last Saturday in Philadelphia. He was 67. A nationally known exponent of his field, Mr. Hanna was on the faculty of the university
 Al Gionfriddo, the Brooklyn Dodger outfielder who made one of baseball's most famous catches when he took a game-tying home run away from Joe DiMaggio at Yankee Stadium in the 1947 World Series, died on Friday in Solvang, Calif. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Sue
 Jean-Luc Lagardère, a customs inspector's son who built one of France's largest industrial empires, reaching from publishing to missiles and telecommunication satellites, died late Friday in a hospital here. He was 75. The cause was a rare neurological condition affecting the immun
 CURRAN-Jean A. (Jac). Easton, MD, March 10, 2003. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He will be missed.       
 de la Garza-Alexander Manuel II. On March 13, 2003 at age 39. Beloved son of Dr. Anita de la Garza Heller and the late doctor Alexander Manuel de la Garza. Loving brother of Luis, Ana Luisa, Julia and Andree. Dear nephew of Venise Trafton, Chris Karageorge and his wife Laura Lisa and Svyla 
 GROSSMAN-Cary. In his 33 years Cary touched so many lives. He was beautiful and he lived a beautiful life. He lived more life in his 33 years than most people live or know about in a lifetime. He was the most gentle, loving, fabulous son his mother, Lynne, and his father, Robert, could ever
 JACOBSON-Julius. The editorial board of ''New Politics'' mourns the March 8th passing of Julius Jacobson, its founding and long time editor. A brilliant thinker, nuanced writer, fine stylist and good friend, he will be missed by all supporters of the democratic socialist left. A memorial me
 KIDWELL-Allyn Perry, M.D., 76, died March 5, 2003 at home in Sun City, Arizona. Educated at The Putney School, Harvard College, and Columbia University P&S. He served in the Army in WWII, and practiced internal medicine in Basking Ridge, NJ. His four daughters, eight grandchildren, three si
 KIRK - Geoffrey S. Died March 10, age 81, after a long illness. Royal Navy Distinguished Service Cross 1945, Regius Professor of Greek emeritus and Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. He will be sorely missed by his loving wife and many friends.       
 KUNG-Shien-Woo. Died on March 8 at age 97. Born in China, Dr. Kung received BA at North Central College, IL, PhD NYU and later honorary LLD from North Central for being distinguished scholar, patriot and humanitarian. In China, was senior executive of Bank of China. Came to the U.S. in 1949
 KUNZ-Edwin Oscar, 79. Of Santa Monica, CA, died on February 23, 2003 at the UCLA Medical Center, from complications associated with leukemia. He was a prominent artist and designer in NY since his immigration from Switzerland after WWII. He had moved to California in 2002 after living in th
 RIEGER - Jack, 83. Died March 12, 2003. In loving memory of Jack ''Chip'' Rieger. ''Captain Jack of Adak.'' After ten years in the Army, Chip started his lifelong career in the garment industry with David Crystal, and thereafter with Charlotte Ford and American Licensing Group. He will be g
 SHAFFRO - Edward C. 1941-2003. February 20th at Yale New Haven hospital. Survived by his loving wife Brenda, brother Bill, sister Toni Werner & many loving nieces and nephews. SHAFFRO-Edward. It was a great ride darling. You filled my life with your love and Ill miss you so. Memoria
 STARR-Sidney W. Of White Plains, NY, on March 3. Survived by his wife of 42 years, Malka, three children, Gary, Don and Ilana, their spouses, Michelle, Jennifer and Robert, and five adoring grandchildren, Justin, Jake, Rachel, Joshua and Melanie. A teacher, counselor and religious school ed
 STEINBERG-Al. With great sorrow we mourn the loss of our beloved leader, Al Steinberg, and wish to express our deepest sympathies to the entire Steinberg family. His guidance and leadership for 50 of our 80 years has left its mark on us all. His loving way not only blessed us but our spouse
 STREISFELD - Harrison A. (Fred). On March 13, 2003 at the age of 70. Proud father of Jennifer, Richard and Karen. Grandfather of Alexandra and Jordan. Dear brother of Helene Weiss. Loving husband of May. ''Buzzy'' was born May 12, 1932 in the Bronx, NY. He was a graduate of NYU Law School w
 WINCOR-Richard. On March 14, 2003. Beloved husband of Daisy Maria. A noted lawyer and author in both New York and London who'll be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Memorial Service to be announced at a later date.       
 Dr. Elliott Jaques, a psychoanalyst, social scientist and management consultant who coined the phrase ''midlife crisis'' and urged companies to adopt hierarchies that reflected employees' abilities to handle long-range assignments, died on March 8 in Gloucester, Mass. He was 86. Dr.
 F. William Sunderman, a doctor and scientist who lived a remarkable century and beyond -- making medical advances, playing his Stradivarius violin at Carnegie Hall at 99 and being honored as the nation's oldest worker at 100 -- died on March 9 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 104.       
 John Sanford, a novelist, historian and autobiographer who often focused his moral fables on the American heartland, especially the Adirondacks, died on March 6 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 98 and lived in Montecito, Calif. His memoir of his life from 1904 to 1927, ''The Color of
 BARTH-Emanuel. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Emanuel Barth, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 de la Garza-Alexander Manuel II. On March 13, 2003 at age 39. Beloved son of Dr. Anita de la Garza Heller and the late doctor Alexander Manuel de la Garza. Loving brother of Luis, Ana Luisa, Julia and Andree. Dear nephew of Venise Trafton, Chris Karageorge and his wife Laura Lisa and Svyla 
 GROSSMAN-George J. We are deeply saddened by his unexpected death on March 15, 2003, in Hollywood, FL. Proud father and ''Bapu'' of Stacy and Lisa. Father-in-law of Marc Hirschheimer. Best friend and soulmate of Karen Shatz. Brother of Susie and Henry Walaszczyk and uncle of Leigh. He had a
 STRUBING - John P. On March 15, 2003, at age 28. Beloved son of Louisa Condon Barrett and Philip H. Strubing. Stepson of Rev. Harold E. Barrett and Virginia M. Strubing. Brother of Alexandra L. Strubing and stepbrother of Ashley B. Harper. Grandson of Alice B. Hognet, Elizabeth H. Strubing 
 ZAPPALA-Orazio J. On March 14, 2003, 90 years of age. Educated at Fordham, Columbia, he earned a second bachelor's in Italian literature from Queens College in 1999. An educator, he taught high school English and history at Wingate, Brooklyn, and John Bowne, Queens. He served in the First I
 Dr. William W. L. Glenn, a cardiac surgeon who developed a procedure for treating congenital heart disease and helped to create an early model of an artificial heart, died on March 10 in Peterborough, N. H. He was 88. The chief of cardiovascular surgery at Yale University from 1948 
 Joseph Coors Sr., who helped make his family's beer a nationwide brand and who used his fortune to support conservative causes, notably the Heritage Foundation and Ronald Reagan's climb to the presidency, died on Saturday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where he had moved in retiremen
 BERNSTEIN-Dudl (David). Died Tuesday, March 11, 2003 while giving his best conducting the Yiddish Folk Chorus of Palm Beach County at a concert in Miami Beach, FL. All his life he was involved in both the Yiddish language and Yiddish folk music. The members of the chorus will miss him great
 DAVIS-James N., MD. The Faculty, Physicians & Staff at Stony Brook University, the School of Medicine in Stony Brook University Hospital are saddened by the passing of James N. Davis, MD, his wife Frances and daughter Amanda. We mourn the untimely death of an inspired teacher, researcher, c
 DOBLMAIER-Anton H. Of Summit, NJ. On March 16, 2003, an electrical Engineer who designed portions of and received a patent on the 1st Electronic telephone switching system in 1967, survived by his wife Vivian A. Doblmaier (nee Tarantino), father of Jane E. Books of Basking Ridge, NJ., Anton
 LOOMIE-Dr. Leo, in his 87th year. Beloved father of Leo III and Marcelle, Adrienne and Loretta. Grandfather of Illya and Steve Berecz and Nell Wiggins and Leo Loomie IV. Great-grandfather of Jake Berecz. Brother of Albert and Edward. Part of a wonderful and extended family, and cherished by
 MCCAUSLAND-Roberto, is resting in peace. He is survived by his wife, Violy Dieppa, five childen, Violy, Sylvia, Roberto, Patricia, Eduardo and nine grandchildren. It is our duty to love & remember him. Funeral mass, Tuesday, March 18, 2003, 10:30 AM, St. Thomas More Church, 65 E. 89th St. b
 POST-Hershel. On March 5, 2003 at the age of 72. Husband of Shelly Glass. Father of Deborah, Judith, Steven and Amy. Loving grandfather. He will be missed.       
 ROBBINS-Lucille. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of Lucille Robbins, wife of our fellow member, David Robbins, and extend condolences to him and his family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 ROSEN-Burton G. Marks Paneth & Shron L.L.P., mourns the passing of our former partner Burton G. Rosen. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Ruth, and to his children Gregg and Lesley. Arnold A. Gruber, Managing Partner       
 ROSEN-Robert Samuel. On March 17. Born 1924, Vienna to Isak Aron and Anna. Attended Chayes Gymnasium until 1938 when he fled on a Kindertransport to Wittengeham, a Jewish farm school on the Balfour Estate in Scotland. Earned his BA at CUNY, MA and PhD at NYU, all at night. Retired, 1995 fro
 STEINBERG-Al. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Al, and offer our deepest sympathies to Beulah and his family. The Ossman family       
 WEBER-Julius, 88. On March 9, 2003. Renowned medical and scientific photographer noted for his images of the minerals he loved and his work for many New York City area hospitals. He is survived by Mary S. Weber, beloved wife of 64 years, sister Edythe, son Robert, daughters Lenore, Margaret
 Edgar Russell Fiedler, a former assistant secretary of the Treasury who later had major jobs at the Conference Board, died on Saturday in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he lived in retirement. A former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., Mr. Fiedler was 73. He suffered cardiac arrest playing gol
 Henryk de Kwiatkowski, a thoroughbred horse owner and breeder and the owner of the celebrated Calumet Farm since 1992, died on Monday at his home in Lyford Cay in the Bahamas. He was 79. The cause was pneumonia, said Roy Roberts, the farm manager of Mr. de Kwiatkowski's Kennelot Sta
 Jack Goldstein, an artist whose performances, short films, paintings and sound pieces of the late 1970's and early 80's helped define the early stages of post-modernist art, died on Friday at his home in San Bernardino, Calif. Mr. Goldstein, who had struggled for many years to overc
 GLUCK-Henry. Died peacefully at home March 17 after an arduous and valiant struggle with illness. Following five years of military service, he pursued a business career in the diamond jewelry industry where he was greatly respected for his knowledge, integrity and loyalty. However, the focu
 HECHT-Milton. Born December 18, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY, died at home Sunday, March 16, 2003 after a long illness. His wife of 58 years, Ruth Hecht, predeceased him March 5, 2003. The family lived in Yonkers from 1950 to 1995. They moved to Leisure World in Laguna Woods in 1995. Funeral servic
 KEYES-Eben Wight. Died March 17, 2003 in New York City. Former advertising executive, librettist and life long resident of Manhattan, Mr. Keyes was a graduate of Phillips Academy Andover, Harvard College 1955 and Columbia Business School 1957. Mr. Keyes held positions in advertising firms a
 LONOFF-Shumer. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Shumer Lonoff, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. A member of the Wall Street Steering Committee, Mr. Lonoff expressed an unwavering commitment to support
 LOOMIE-Dr. Leo, in his 87th year. Beloved father of Leo III and Marcelle, Adrienne and Loretta. Grandfather of Illya and Steve Berecz and Nell Wiggins and Leo Loomie IV. Great-grandfather of Jake Berecz. Brother of Albert and Edward. Part of a wonderful and extended family, and cherished by
 MARGOLIS-Sidney S. Longtime Santa Fe book dealer Sidney S. Margolis passed away peacefully at home, February 24, 2003. Prior to moving to Santa Fe, Mr. Margolis was Director, National Community Development for the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, New York. He had an extensive career 
 McCANN-Frank. The 125,000 - member Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO deeply mourns the death March 17, 2003 of one of our most beloved union brothers, Frank McCann, who served the TWU membership for 50 years, and the past decade as its Executive Vice President. His luminous career
 MONTIFIORE - Jules. Our heartfelt condolences go out the Montifiore family on the passing of their beloved husband, father and grandfather. He was a warm, caring, loving and understanding man who will be sorely missed. Employees and Friends Dalil Fashions       
 SILIN-Abraham S. On March 18, at age 91. After a long life, a decade of illness, a sudden, peaceful end. Always striving to live up to impossibly high ideals-kind and engaging, fierce and determined. Devoted husband, father, grandfather, brother and friend. He will be sorely missed by all. 
 Herbert Aptheker, the prolific Marxist historian best known for his three-volume ''Documentary History of the Negro People in the United States'' and for editing the correspondence and writing of his mentor, W. E. B. DuBois, died on Monday in Mountain View, Calif. He was 87. Along w
 LONOFF-Shumer S. Died March 18. His family, friends, and colleagues are greatly saddened by his passing. A Senior Managing Director at Bear, Stearns & Co., Shumer's life will be celebrated at a memorial service in his honor on Tuesday, March 25, at 10:30 A.M. at Cipriani, 110 East 42nd Stre
 LOOMIE-Dr. Leo, in his 87th year. Beloved father of Leo III and Marcelle, Adrienne and Loretta. Grandfather of Illya and Steve Berecz and Nell Wiggins and Leo Loomie IV. Great-grandfather of Jake Berecz. Brother of Albert and Edward. Part of a wonderful and extended family, and cherished by
 McCANN-Frank. The 125,000 - member Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO deeply mourns the death March 17, 2003 of one of our most beloved union brothers, Frank McCann, who served the TWU membership for 50 years, and the past decade as its Executive Vice President. His luminous career
 SILIN-Abraham S. On March 18, at age 91. After a long life, a decade of illness, a sudden, peaceful end. Always striving to live up to impossibly high ideals-kind and engaging, fierce and determined. Devoted husband, father, grandfather, brother and friend. He will be sorely missed by all. 
 Robert Anthony Leonard, whose technical expertise and marketing prowess helped create the worldwide Ticketmaster machine that opens doors to well over 150,000 events a year, died March 12 in San Diego. He was 70 and lived in La Jolla, Calif. A frequent visitor to San Diego State Uni
 Robert M. Shelton, the longtime leader of one of the largest and most notorious factions of the Ku Klux Klan, died on Monday in Tuscaloosa, Ala. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. The organization that Mr. Shelton had led since 1961, the United Klans of Americ
 Niels Bjorn Larsen, the Danish dancer and great mime who helped reveal the beauties of August Bournonville's Romantic ballets to Americans as artistic director of the Royal Danish Ballet during its first United States tour in 1956, died in Copenhagen on March 13. He was 89. Carefull
 AULEBACH-Richard H., 74, of Ivy, Virginia died suddenly at his home on Wednesday, March 19, 2003. Born in Erie, PA on June 30, 1928 to the late Emil and Eugenia Eberle Aulebach. He graduated from Cardinal Hayes High School in New York City, served as a Second Lieutenant in the United States
 BAIER-Monte. On March 20, 2003. He is survived by his wife Mia and his loving children Melinda (Brian) Bolinger, Elizabeth (Dan) Lino, Jennifer (Dan) Chaffman and Monte (Meghan) Baier. Also surviving are his seven grandchildren, his sister Shelby White, brother-in-law Leon Levy and his niec
 BROWN-Stewart Pierce. On February 18, 2003 in Manhattan after a long illness. Sadly missed by his wife, family and many friends. Memorial service to be announced.       
 CABAZA - Cortez ''James''. Born August 15, 1949. Died Dec. 6, 2002. Guitar player and former employee of Sam Ash Music Stores. He died following a stroke. Interment at Forest Green Cemetery, Morganville, NJ, Saturday, March 22, at 9:00 A.M.       
 CAINE-David, 79. Of Boca Raton, FL, died on March 19th, 2003. Formerly of Riverdale, NY, retired owner of Churchill Furniture Rental Company and Caine Brothers Furniture, Inc. He is survived by his loving wife, Lillian, daughters Nancy and Claudia, son-in-law Arnie, grandchildren, Matthew, 
 GRANT-Arthur. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration, staff and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound shock and sorrow the sudden death of our dear friend and colleague, Arthur Grant. A loya
 KEATING-Richard W., 67. Died peacefully March 19. A former V.P. of institutional sales at Smith Barney and president and CEO of NatWest Securities. His life will be celebrated at a funeral mass on Saturday, March 22, at 2:30PM at St. Michael's Catholic Church in Fernandina Beach, FL. A seco
 LONOFF-Shumer S. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of one of our most popular and esteemed members. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his close friends and the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President       
 MEIER-August, historian, on March 19, 2003. Born April 30, 1923. Teacher and scholar whose research and writing shaped the field of AfricanAmerican history. Dearly beloved brother of Paul and Louise, cherished uncle of Diane, Karen, and Joan. Contributions in his memory may be made to the S
 SEMEL-Robert K. Beloved husband of Frances. Loving father of Scott, Michael and Scotty. Dear brother of Marty Semel and Fran Meyer. Cherished grandfather of Lindsay, Brian, Joseph, Matthew and Caroline. Service today 12 noon at Riverside, 21 W. Broad St, Mt Vernon, NY. SEMEL-Robert.
 TREACY-Thomas B. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Thomas B. Treacy. A Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White Jr., Historian       
 BAIER-Monte. On March 20, 2003. He is survived by his wife Mia and his loving children Melinda (Brian) Bolinger, Elizabeth (Dan) Lino, Jennifer (Dan) Chaffman and Monte (Meghan) Baier. Also surviving are his seven grandchildren, his sister Shelby White, brother-in-law Leon Levy and his niec
 MEIER-August, historian, on March 19, 2003. Born April 30, 1923. Teacher and scholar whose research and writing shaped the field of AfricanAmerican history. Dearly beloved brother of Paul and Louise, cherished uncle of Diane, Karen, and Joan. Contributions in his memory may be made to the S
 NEIMAN-Phil, 90. Beloved father of Steve, Micki and son-in-law Robert; loving grandfather of Deborah and Matthew; caring uncle and friend to all he met. He was caring and compassionate. A genuinely kind, sweet man.       
 WAGREICH - Samuel, MD. Age of 97. Bronx physician for sixty years. Community leader, philanthropist and active in medical politics. He is survived by his wife Zipora, his brother Paul, his two sons Michael and Herbert, six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. Funeral services will b
 WALSH-Richard J., CSP. On March 21, 2003 at age 85. Born in New York City in May 1918 he attended St. Paul the Apostle grade school in midtown and was ordained a Paulist priest January 25, 1944. His considerable preaching talents took him to Clemson, SC, New York Good Shepherd Church, Berke
 Col. Edson D. Raff, who led the first combat jump by American paratroopers in World War II and served a decade later as an early commander of the Army's Special Forces, died March 11 in Garnett, Kan. Colonel Raff, who lived in Garnett and Bora-Bora, French Polynesia, was 95.        
 BURDSALL-James Harlan. A radio announcer best known by his on-air name of ''Jim Harlan,'' died on March 13, 2003 in Bronxville. He was the host of radio's famous Make-Believe Ballroom, on WNEW-AM before the station was sold and became a news station in 1992. He was 53. He died of complicati
 DIXON-Robert J. General USAF (Retired) died at his home in Fair Oaks Ranch on Friday, March 21, 2003. He was born in New York City on April 9, 1920 to William and Mary (Smith) Dixon. General Dixon moved to Fair Oaks Ranch in 1982, following his retirement as President and Chairman of the Bo
 DUDAK-Herbert William, 71, on March 12, 2003 after a long and courageous battle. Beloved husband of Pearl, devoted father of Michael, Scott and the late Amy Jill. Proud and loving grandfather of Ashley, Jeremy and Ryan; caring brother and uncle. A loving, generous man whose friends were leg
 GOLDBERG-Frank. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Frank Goldberg, father of Ellen Hershkin, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National Pres.       
 INGRAM-Franklin, 89. Of Oceanport, New Jersey died on Saturday, March 15th at The St. Barnabas Center for Hospice, Long Branch. Surviving are his wife of 65 years, Selma Simon Ingram, two sons and daughters-inlaw, Richard E. Ingram and his wife Susan of Martinsville, NJ, and G. Stephen Ingr
 MEIER-August, historian, on March 19, 2003. Born April 30, 1923. Teacher and scholar whose research and writing shaped the field of AfricanAmerican history. Dearly beloved brother of Paul and Louise, cherished uncle of Diane, Karen, and Joan. Contributions in his memory may be made to the S
 MORAN-Michael. Was born on November 29, 1950 in Dallas, Texas and died at his home in San Francisco, California on March 5, 2003. He was 52. Raised in Texas, he attended Dallas Jesuit Schools then moved to New York in 1968 to attend and graduate from Fordham University. He became immersed i
 NORTON-William A. Writer and editor, died this past week at the age of 55, from complications of pneumonia. Norton served as editorial assistant on Chris Felver's photographic collections: The Late Great Alan Ginsberg and The Importance of Being. He also worked with Felver on several film p
 SANDIFORD-Arthur D. ''Sandy.'' March 23, 1918-March 20, 2003 in Los Angeles. Yale class of 1939, naval architect 50 years, published Titanic expert. Mourned by his wife Jean, five children, many dear friends and fellow engineers. Private service.       
 SHERWIN-Sidney. Lawyer, author, lecturer, athlete. After a valiant struggle died March 17, 2003. He will be forever missed by his devoted wife, Jean (his ''Zecie''), his most caring & respectful sons, Rabbi Byron (Judith) and Elliott (Sharon) and by his loving grandchildren Beth, Jason, Dav
 TANENBAUM - Robert Mitchell. On March 22, 2003. Beloved husband and best friend of Carol. BA, MBA, Cornell University; JD, LLM (taxation), New York University; CPA. He leaves a legacy of love and loyalty to all who knew him. Contributions may be made in his honor to the Robert M. Tanenbaum 
 WELLS-Arnold. Age 83. On March 19, after a protracted struggle with pulmonary disease. Arnold was a compassionate man whose generosity and large heart helped many. He shared his wit, humor and spirit liberally with all those around him. He was an inspiring, giving father and friend. His ent
 Thomas P. Ryan Jr., the mayor of Rochester during two decades of fiscal challenges and urban redevelopment, died on March 14 in Rochester. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, friends of the family said. His death came the day before the city's annual St. Patrick's Day parade
 Allen G. Schwartz, a federal court judge who was New York City's corporation counsel under Mayor Edward I. Koch, died Saturday. He was 68 and lived in Rye, N.Y. Mr. Schwartz, who had bone marrow cancer, suffered cardiac arrest and was involved in an accident on Friday as he drove ho
 COTLIAR - William. On March 21, 2003. He was 81. Born to Jacob and Gertrude (Fishman) Cotliar on November 2, 1921. Survived by his wife Eleanor (Nass), daughter Dr. Rochelle Cotliar, son Dr. Arthur Cotliar, and nine grandchildren. Predeceased by daughter Phyllis Schwartz, brother Solomon, a
 OWENS-John A. On March 23, 2003, at the age of 99. Resident of Westhampton Beach, NY; formerly of Garden City, NY. Retired president of Lachman, Novasel, Owens Paper Corporation. Predeceased by his wife of fiftythree years, Mae Nevins Owens, he is survived by his children: Rosemary McAllist
 TANENBAUM - Robert Mitchell. On March 22, 2003. Beloved husband and best friend of Carol. BA, MBA, Cornell University; JD, LLM (taxation), New York University; CPA. He leaves a legacy of love and loyalty to all who knew him. Contributions may be made in his honor to the Robert M. Tanenbaum 
 Rem Krassilnikov, a legendary figure within the K.G.B. who was in charge of the investigations and arrests of the American spies betrayed by Aldrich H. Ames, Robert P. Hanssen and other moles in the final years of the cold war, died in Moscow last week. He was 76. Mr. Krassilnikov, 
 August Meier, an expert on African-American history, died last Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. He had a progressive neurological disorder, said Dr. Diane E. Meier, his niece. Much of Professor Meier's writing focused on the relationship of African-Americans' i
 BRAVERMAN-Bruce, Dr. On March 23, 2003, at 51. Beloved husband of Helene Funk. Adored father of Derek Willem Braverman. Devoted son of Frances Braverman and the late Sherman. Son-in-law of Howard and Elisabeth Funk. Loving brother-in-law of Rhoda and William H. Fry. Also survived by his nep
 GLEBERMAN-J. Harvey. On March 23, 2003, at age of 80. Beloved husband of Miriam. Loving father of Joan, Ellen, and Joseph. Grandfather of Matthew, Benjamin, Samantha, Sarah, Margaret, and Charles. Brother of Jeanne Cohn. Mr. Gleberman was a graduate of the United States Naval Academy and sa
 GUDEFIN-Georges M., 82. On 22 March, 2003 following an injury. Beloved husband of Joan, adored father of Alix and Christian, father-in-law of Jean Perrachon, and grandfather of Juliet, Olivier and Victoria, caring brother and uncle. A man with an unquenchable zest for life and limitless gen
 MARTIN - Myron ''Marty''. Beloved friend to many in New York's gay community. Born in Wisconsin, Myron worked for 22 years as a copywriter at Reader's Digest and contributed as a leader at Identity House in New York City and the Loft in White Plains. Following early retirement, Myron pursue
 MENIS-Nat. In sorrow, we celebrate the life of Nat Menis, a Tranquility-ite for 80 years. A camper in the 20's, alumni president and chairman for 25 years, and ''pop-pop'' to the campers for the past 30 years, he was known to all generations since the beginning. With a quick wit, enduring s
 MOORE-Gladys. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Gladys Moore, beloved mother of David Moore, who is a generous supporter of UJA-Federation and the agencies in our network. We extend our deepest sympathies to David and his wife, Lo
 OBRE-Alan. Of West Cornwall, CT. Born June 7, 1924. Died March 21, 2003. Survived by his wife Dorothy.       
 OWENS-John A. On March 23, 2003, at the age of 99. Resident of Westhampton Beach, NY; formerly of Garden City, NY. Retired president of Lachman, Novasel, Owens Paper Corporation. Predeceased by his wife of fiftythree years, Mae Nevins Owens, he is survived by his children: Rosemary McAllist
 ROSEN-Robert M. Died Monday, March 24, 2003 at home in Rock Hill, NY. He was 64. Long time attorney in Monticello in firm of Rosen Law Office. He is survived by his wife of 37 years, Nathana Mintz Rosen; his three sons Erik, Jeremiah and Lucas; his brother and sister-in-law William and Lois
 ROSENZWEIG - Elias. Adored husband of Bernice ''Bunny''. Loving father of Linda, Kenneth and David. Much loved grandfather of Jordan, Allison, Jake and Bess. Funeral services 1:00 PM Tuesday at GuttermanWarheit, 7240 N. Federal Highway, Boca Raton, FL. ROSENZWEIG-Eli. The Partners &
 ROSSETTI - Peter Antonio. Died on March 18th, 2003 in NY. Mr. Rossetti was an institution at J. Press Clothing, where he had been a haberdasher for over 40 years. Mr. Rossetti was so beloved that the Japanese owners of the store created a doll in his image. His trademark horn rimmed glasses
 RUDMAN - Robert S. Of Wayne, NJ, formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ, on Monday, March 24, 2003. Survived by his beloved wife Florence of 46 years, loving children Margo & Jeffrey Gold of Chappaqua, NY, Lisa Rudman of Oakland, CA., and Dana Rudman of Norwalk, CT, adored grandchildren Alexander and Ju
 SCHWARTZ-The Honorable Allen G., 68, of Rye, NY, died March 22, 2003. Beloved husband of Joan. Loving father of David, Rachel & Deborah and John Meer. Cherished brother of Robert. Respected Federal Judge and former Corporation Counsel, City of New York. In lieu of flowers please send donati
 TANENBAUM - Robert M. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 1095 Park Avenue wish to extend their deepest sympathies to the family of Robert M. Tanenbaum, a long time resident and Treasurer of the co-op corporation. He will be missed by all who knew him. TANENBAUM - Robert M. C
 VUERNICK-Alan. In loving memory, leaving behind his 3 children Melissa, Richard and Kevin. You will be missed by all. Donations to the American Diabetes Asssociation. Services are at ''BoulevardRiverside'' Chapels, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island today 11:30 AM       
 Adam Osborne, a British technical writer who became one of Silicon Valley's legends by introducing the first portable personal computer in 1981, died on March 18 in Kodiakanal, India. He was 64 and had a series of strokes in the last decade, said his former wife Cynthia Geddes. The 
 CHANEN-Hyman B. Passed away on March 23, 2003 in Tucson, Arizona. Formerly of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Born December 4, 1915 to the late Harry and Edith Chanen. Beloved husband of Anne Harris Chanen for 65 beautiful years. Devoted father to Rochelle Sulman and her husband, the late Micha
 GLEBERMAN-J. Harvey. On March 23, 2003, at age of 80. Beloved husband of Miriam. Loving father of Joan, Ellen, and Joseph. Grandfather of Matthew, Benjamin, Samantha, Sarah, Margaret, and Charles. Brother of Jeanne Cohn. Mr. Gleberman was a graduate of the United States Naval Academy and sa
 GUDEFIN-Georges M., 82. On 22 March, 2003 following an injury. Beloved husband of Joan, adored father of Alix and Christian, father-in-law of Jean Perrachon, and grandfather of Juliet, Olivier and Victoria, caring brother and uncle. A man with an unquenchable zest for life and limitless gen
 NEFF-Richard B. Age 90, died March 23, 2003, in Manhattan, where he had resided since 1935, after an illness of medium duration. Survived by a son, Richard B. Neff Jr., of Palm Beach. Burial to be in Athens, GA. In lieu of flowers, contributions to St. James' Church, 865 Madison Avenue, New
 OGDEN - Alfred, 93. On March 21, 2003 in New York City. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., on October 14th, 1909. He is survived by his loving son, Alfred T. Ogden II, grandchildren Alix R. Ogden (Matthews), Alfred T. Ogden III, M.D. and Mary Fell P. Ogden and great grandchildren Katherine S. Matthews
 RAMIREZ - Antonio, 66. March 21, 2003 in NYC. Survived by his wife, Marjorie, sons, David and Benjamin. Funeral Mass Wednesday, 8 PM, St. Ignatius of Antioch Church, 552 West End Avenue at 87th Street.       
 ROSENZWEIG-Eli. My dear friend for more than 56 years. I'll miss you. Deep condolences to Bernice and family. Norman Sparber ROSENZWEIG-Eli. The Partners & Staff of Brauner, Baron, Rosenzweig & Klein, LLP, are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, mentor and retired partner, El
 SCHWARTZ-Allen. Brilliant yet loving; productive, persuasive polymath; honest lawyer, diligent judge-Allen is the best. He helped us enormously. We revere him. Alan Moss and Henry Stern       
 STAVRIDES - Mary. On March 24, 2003. Beloved wife of the late George Stavrides; loving mother of Alexandra Berry and Stephen Stavrides and his wife Lynne; cherished grandmother of Christine, Ben, Jennifer, Brian and Nick; great-grandmother of Katie, Hannah, George and Claire; fond sister of
 TANENBAUM - Robert M. Cherished friend and associate for many years, dedicated to his career, an intrepid & fearless world traveler, we will miss him very much. Adele Bergreen, Laurence & Betsy Bergreen Natasha Bergreen TANENBAUM - Robert M. The Trustees of the Skirball Foundation n
 WACHSBERG - Denise. On March 25, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Harry, loving mother of Claudie Tanenbaum, mother-in-law of Edward Tanenbaum, dear sister of Sylvain Sternberg and the late Jacques Sternberg, proud and adoring grandmother of Sabrina and Jonathan. She had a zest for life which
 Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the Harvard professor and four-term United States senator from New York who brought a scholar's eye for data to politics and a politician's sense of the real world to academia, died yesterday at Washington Hospital Center in Washington, D.C. He was 76. The c
 Eddie Jaffe, a press agent legendary for his lost causes, chutzpah and angst, who all but made Broadway his alias and held that the best kind of promotion was self-promotion, died on Tuesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 89 and had been hospitalized since November, said h
 ADELMAN-Peter. Died on March 26, 2003. Greatly loved husband of Alice. Father of Amy and Karen. Father-inlaw of Charles. Grandfather of Sarah. Brother of Suzanne and Adrienne. Brother-in-law of Edwin and Alfred. Nephew of Ruth. Your love, selflessness, honesty, wit, kindness and bravery hav
 CAMPBELL-Paschall, 79. A distinguished landscape architect, died peacefully March 9, 2003 at Southampton Hospital of acute ischemia. Having previously lived in NYC since 1965, he had recently retired to Wainscott, NY. In 1974 Mr. Campbell was honored at the White House with the National Lan
 GUDEFIN-Georges M., 82. On 22 March, 2003 following an injury. Beloved husband of Joan, adored father of Alix and Christian, father-in-law of Jean Perrachon, and grandfather of Juliet, Olivier and Victoria, caring brother and uncle. A man with an unquenchable zest for life and limitless gen
 HENDERSON-John J., of Bay Ridge Brooklyn, NY, died Monday March 24, 2003 in Manchester, CT. He was the son of the late John and Maud (Johnston) Henderson and brother to Olive Wall Manning and Daisy Bevers. He was a graduate of the Stevens Institute of Technology and was a US Army Veteran se
 MOORE-Gladys. The Eldridge Street Project extends its deepest sympathy to our dear and highly esteemed board member, David Moore, upon the loss of his mother Gladys. Our board of directors and staff wish to express condolences to David, Lori, Nicholas and Jami, and to all the members of the
 ROSENZWEIG-Elias. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Elias Rosenzweig, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation, whose dedicated service as past president and longtime member of the Board of the Herman Goldman Foundation helped support
 SMITH-Miriam, ''Mimi.'' The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the untimely death of the beloved wife of our esteemed colleague Dr. A. Hal Strelnick, Professor of Clinical Family Medicine and Community Health, as well as Program Director of our n
 WILLIAMS-Frank A. DDS on March 24. Survived by his beloved Aida E. Mella; his brother Clarence Williams and nieces and nephews. Family will recieve friends on Thursday 2-5 and 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St. Services Thursday evening 8PM at the funeral home. Priva
 EISENPREIS-Alfred, Ph.D. On March 27, 2003 at age 78. Eminent communications and marketing executive, distinguished economist and scholar, died peacefully in his home. He served with distinction as Vice-President, Allied Stores Corp.; Administrator, New York City Economic Development Admini
 HABERMAN-Irving Passed away on March 25, 2003 in Pembroke Pines, FL. Beloved husband of the late Beulah Workman Haberman.  Devoted father to Sandra Haberman Irwin and David; Judith Haberman Tarter and Alan, loving brother of Henry Haberman, adored grand-father of Dr. Meredith Irwin, Jamie I
 ITTELSON-Leona. Beloved wife of Robert, loving mother of Warren and Gail, and devoted mother-in-law of Judy. Cherished sister of Fredene Skowronek. Adored grandmother of Jennifer, Marc and his wife Pavlina.       
 McDONALD-Bryant A. Sr. We note with sadness the passing of Bryant A. McDonald Sr. Our deepest sympathy to his daughter, Dorothy Calloway, and the rest of the family. Board & Staff Henry Street Settlement       
 MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. The board of trustees and administration of Bard College and the Levy Economics Institute mourn the passing of the Honorable Daniel Patrick Moynihan, one of America's great public intellectuals and public servants, and an honorary alumnus of the College. He served h
 PALEN-Frederick P., 88. On March 25, 2003 of Meadowood at Worcester, Lansdale, PA. Formerly of Verona, NJ. Beloved husband of Harriette Hillhouse Adams Palen, devoted father of Frederick P. (Bill) Palen Jr. and his wife Cynthia of Lansdale, PA and Edward M. Palen and his wife Teresa Cheetha
 STERN-Morton J., D.D.S. We record with deep sorrow the death of our colleague, Dr. Morton J. Stern, Associate Clinical Professor of Dentistry, on March 25, 2003. Dr. Stern served the School and its students with unstinting devotion for 45 years. He was renowned for his devotion to dental ed
 Paul Zindel, who drew on memories of his troubled childhood on Staten Island for a prize-winning play with a tongue-twisting title, ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds,'' died yesterday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66.   
 Robert B. Bourque, a co-designer of Zoltan the Astrological Wizard, a mechanical fortunetelling machine popular in penny arcades, died last Saturday in Duxbury, Mass. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter Linda B. Sullivan said. An expert repairer o
 Boleslaw Wierzbianski, a founder, publisher and former editor in chief of the Polish-language newspaper Nowy Dziennik, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia and he died at the hospice at Cabrini Medical Center, said his wife, Barbara. Mr. Wierzbi
 EISENPREIS-Alfred, Ph.D. On March 27, 2003 at age 78. Eminent communications and marketing executive, distinguished economist and scholar, died peacefully in his home. He served with distinction as Vice-President, Allied Stores Corp.; Administrator, New York City Economic Development Admini
 MALONEY - Margaret M. (Peggy). On March 27, 2003. Wife of the late William C. Maloney. Loving mother of Beatrice, William, and his wife, Joanne. Dear grandmother of Larissa. Sister of John Wright and the late Charles Wright. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Sunday 
 MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. As we mourn his passing and recall his unique service to our state and nation, we note with pride our longtime association with Pat Moynihan, to whose wife, partner and campaign manager, Liz Moynihan, we extend deepest sympathies. Raymond B. Harding, Vice Chair, Lib
 PELLICONI-Jay. The Financial Analysts Money Managers Society mourn the loss of its good friend and member. He fought a valiant battle and will be missed by his friends and family. Mel Weiner, President       
 ZIMBLE-Carl. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Carl Zimble, on Friday, March 28, 2003. We extend condolences to all of his family. Services will be held Sunday, March 30, 2 PM Stanetskys Memorial Chapel, 16
 CORDON-Jim. ''He has livedTherefore he lives.'' Y.K. You are greatly missed. Richard.       
 Paul Zindel, who drew on memories of his troubled childhood on Staten Island for a prize-winning play with a tongue-twisting title, ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds,'' died on Thursday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66. 
 Dr. Roland Reiman De Marco, a former president of Finch College, a women's liberal arts institution in Manhattan that closed in the mid-1970's, died on March 21 in Rochester. He was 92. A graduate of Columbia, he also studied at Munich University and Shrivenham American University i
 Alan Howard, a lead dancer with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and a ballet teacher, died on March 6 in Chicago. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his niece, Pat Bostwick of Chicago, his only immediate survivor. Mr. Howard, who was born in Chicago, trained with Edna McR
 Bernard Rabin, an American art restorer who refurbished the Brumidi fresco inside the Capitol dome in Washington and helped save many of the artworks in Florence, Italy, after devastating floods in 1966, died on Monday in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 86. The cause was complications fr
 Milton G. Henschel, a member since 1971 of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses, which looks after their religious programs around the world, died on March 22 at his Brooklyn home. He was 72. The Jehovah's Witnesses' public information office did not give a cause. He li
 ADAMS-David E., noted vocal teacher and opera coach, passed away on March 9th, 2003 after a two-year struggle with kidney cancer. He was 61. For more than 30 years, he taught side-by-side with his wife Nancy in their studios in NYC and Great Barrington, MA. He was a master at the fine art o
 BURNETT-Byron K. Attorney at law and community activist, passed away suddenly, March 24, 2003, age 56. Adoring father of Alison Mandelker-Burnett, beloved husband of Mel Pipe, cherished friend. A graduate of the Harvard Law School and the Kennedy School of Government, Byron served the NYPD,
 COVEN - Richard E. On March 29, 2003. Beloved husband of Edda. Loving father of Mitchell. Adoring grandfather of Aaron. He will be deeply missed. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam.       
 CROAK-Allan. Died March 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Elizabeth. Loving father of Eileen Tucker, Kathleen Cooper & Maureen Thomas. Grandfather of six. Mr. Croak lived in Ridgeway, NJ for 32 years moving to Morristown, NJ in 1986. He was a special agent for the FBI in NYC for 25 years and Vic
 DAVIS - Charles S. The Amateur Comedy Club notes with sadness the passing of honorary member, Charles S. Davis. A member since 1950, he was a workroom stalwart and a gentleman of substance. He will be much missed.       
 DENMARK-Harold J., D.D.S. 82, formerly of Freeport and Manhasset. Loving husband of the late Jeannette. Adored father of Gerald (Lynn) and Leslie (John) Storch, and the late Wendy Denmark. Beloved grandfather of Jason and Jonathan Denmark, Laura Russell and Rebecca Storch. Devoted brother t
 EISENPREIS - Alfred. The Board of Directors of the Cancer Research and Treatment Fund mourn the passing of longtime friend and fellow Board member, Dr. Alfred Eisenpreis. A man of generous spirit and wisdom, he was never reluctant to show his curiosity or express a studied opinion when aske
 FAGEN-Theodore (Tedd). 84, of Lake Worth, Florida, died peacefully at Hospiceby-the-Sea in Boca Raton after a brief illness. Adoring husband of the late Marcia, loving father of Laurette and Edward Schecter and Nancy and Roger Preefer, devoted brother of Dorothy Ross. Adoring grandfather of
 FISHER-Harry, 92, soldier, pacifist, writer, activist, died March 22, after participating in a demonstration against the war on Iraq. He grew up in the Hebrew National Orphan Home, became a labor organizer, fought fascism in Spain with the Abraham Lincoln Brigade, and served as a B-26 turre
 FISHER - Leonard Julius, C.R.I., 72, died on March 8th. He was awarded the National Defense Medal while serving with the Marines in the Korean War. A multi-talented designer, he was knighted by the Italian government for developing their ready-towear industry. He will be wellremembered.    
 GROSSMAN - Sanford. 73, passed away on March 24, 2003. He is survived by Barbara, his wife of 52 years, his two children Daniel and Donna, and his grandson Matthew. He chaired the Real Estate Department of the law firm of Simpson Thacher and Bartlett, prior to his retirement in 1990. He ser
 GRUNERT-Roland Eric, 71. Died peacefully at home in Houston, TX., on December 20, 2002, after a courageous battle with leukemia. Born in New York City, he graduated Brooklyn Technical High School, Lehigh University and University of Santa Clara (MBA). He served as Second Lieutenant in the U
 HAUPT-Steven Jay. On March 28, 2003. Beloved son of Margot Collins and the late Elliot Haupt. Devoted brother of Vicki Haupt. Loving stepson of Fred Collins. He will always be part of us and fill our hearts with love. Sleep in peace. The family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 HOROWITZ-Richard B. Born July 13, 1941, died March 20, 2003. He is survived by his beloved wife, Suzanne. Rick was a manufacturers representative in the toy industry for 30 years. To say that Rick loved New York would be an understatement. He was New York. His gorgeous sense of grace and st
 KEYES-Eben Wight II. The Amateur Comedy Club notes with sorrow the passing of esteemed retired member, Eben Wight Keyes II. Elected in 1985, he was an active and talented participant. He and his writing will be much missed by all.       
 LEVINE-Julius. On March 28th, 2003. Beloved husband of Caroline, loving father of Dena and Amy, dear brother of Max, adoring grandfather of Bailey. Service Sunday, April 6th, 1:45PM at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. LEVINE-Julius. The Musicians, Board and Staff
 MOYNIHAN-Daniel P. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the death of a distinguished Fellow, renowned intellectual leader, dedicated statesman, eloquent orator, and author of pathbreaking Academy studies. Professor Moynihan's innovative scholarly work on race, ethnicity, poverty
 SEMERAD-Arthur F. Died in Tampa, Florida on March 27th after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Rosemary Reilly. Survived by his sister Ruth Griffiths and 14 nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held in New York at a later date.       
 WHITE-F. Kingsbury, 87. Died March 23, at home in New York City. A lover of the theater and longtime member of the Amateur Comedy Club of New York City. Preceded in death by his beloved wife Margaret, his son Steven and granddaughter Molly. Survived by his son David, daughter and son-in-law
 Alfred Eisenpreis, New York City's economic development administrator for two and a half years in the mid-1970's, died at Lenox Hill Hospital on Thursday. He was 78 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was not immediately disclosed, but he had been suffering from
 Dr. Vernon W. Hughes, a Yale physicist whose investigation of particles called muons poked holes in standard subatomic theory and provided evidence for the existence of previously undetected matter, died at Yale-New Haven Hospital last Tuesday. He was 81. Dr. Hughes began his study 
 CRABTREE-Michael Riordan. A resident of Stamford and a former longtime resident of Greenwich, passed away in New York, on Saturday, March 29, 2003, due to an automobile accident. He was 33. Born in Greenwich, CT, on October 8, 1969, he was the son of Robert E. and June Langran Crabtree Sr. 
 FAGEN-Theodore (Tedd). 84, of Lake Worth, Florida, died peacefully at Hospiceby-the-Sea in Boca Raton after a brief illness. Adoring husband of the late Marcia, loving father of Laurette and Edward Schecter and Nancy and Roger Preefer, devoted brother of Dorothy Ross. Adoring grandfather of
 GROSSMAN - Sanford. 73, passed away on March 24, 2003. He is survived by Barbara, his wife of 52 years, his two children Daniel and Donna, and his grandson Matthew. He chaired the Real Estate Department of the law firm of Simpson Thacher and Bartlett, prior to his retirement in 1990. He ser
 JACOBSEN - Walter B. Passed away on March 27, 2003, in Tampa, FL. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he was a longtime resident of Valley Stream, NY, and Lynbrook, NY. He worked for 42 years as an executive of the Borden Company and retired in 1975. He is survived by his wife Anne (Poulos), his son Paul
 NAKHLEH-Issa. A Palestinian lawyer and diplomat died on Saturday, March 29, 2003. He was born in Beit Sahour, Palestine, was a graduate of London University (LL.B.) and a Barrister-atLaw of the Honorable Society of Lincoln's Inn, London and was a Member of the Palestine Bar. He represented 
 RUESCH-Jeffrey. On March 28, 2003, of cancer, age 55. Born in San Francisco, attended UCLA Davis, University of Pennsylvania, Ph.D. from Columbia University. Art dealer and patron, Jeffrey sweetened the lives he touched with his concern and generosity. His joie de vivre and great love of Ne
 SCHWARTZ-Allen G. The judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York express deep regrets at the death of Judge Schwartz, our colleague, and extend sympathy to his family. Michael B. Mukasey, Chief Judge       
 WENGER-Seymour. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Seymour Wenger. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jerold L. Zaro, President Harvey L. York, Secretary       
 Robert E. Hudec, a professor who broadened the study of laws governing international trade to embrace matters of diplomacy and politics, died on March 12 while vacationing in North Captiva Island, Fla. He was 68. The cause was coronary heart disease, according to an announcement by 
