 Fred T. Korematsu, who lost a Supreme Court challenge in 1944 to the wartime internment of Japanese-Americans but gained vindication decades later when he was given the Medal of Freedom, died on Wednesday in Larkspur, Calif. Mr. Korematsu, who lived in San Leandro, Calif., was 86. T
 Mitch Hedberg, the lackadaisical, longhaired comedian whose surreal routines made him a cult figure on the national comedy circuit, died on Wednesday in Livingston, N.J., said his father, Arnold. He was 37. The cause was not immediately known, said Michael O'Brien, his publicist. Th
 Nathanael V. Davis, an industrialist and philanthropist who led the world's second-largest supplier of aluminum, Alcan, after World War II and through the 1970's, died on March 22 at his home in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 89. His death was announced by his son, J.H. Dow Davis.        
 CLINTON--Shaun P., 42, of Old Greenwich, Connecticut passed away on March 30th. Shaun is survived by his wife, Mia Weinberg and two boys, Keegan and Devin. A service will be held at St. Clements of Rome Church, Stamford, CT April 2nd at 11 AM.       
 COCHRAN--Johnnie, L., Jr. We are saddened by the passing of our dear and noble friend. His courtroom achievements were but a small part of the great and good work he did for societies oppressed, his church and people of all color. A fine, decent and moral man, we are diminished by his death
 GOLD--Nat, 84, formerly of New York City, died peacefully March 26 in Las Vegas, NM, chosen home of Nat and Edith, his late beloved wife. Head of Arts Council, founder of theater group, creative, progressive, gentle prince. Deeply loved by his children Heloise & Andrew and all who knew him.
 HANSEN--J. Kent, former advertising executive, died March 29. He was 83. A native of Brigham City, Utah, Mr. Hansen became a Creative Group Head and Vice President at J. Walter Thompson, the New York agency, supervising accounts including Kodak, Ford, Rolex, and UNICEF. He also designed the
 KOREMATSU--Fred. The American Civil Liberties Union, its officers, Board of Directors and staff deeply mourn the passing of a courageous fighter for civil liberties. Following Japan's December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, America rounded up in its very own internment camps fellow citizen
 LORD--Daniel, died unexpectedly on March 21 in Hampton Bays, NY. Born in Glen Cove, NY on September 4, 1953 to Edward C. and Elizabeth Lord. Will be greatly missed by all his friends and relations on Long Island, particularly his brother Ned and his sister Crary.       
 PETSCHEK--Dr. Harry E., age 74, died March 29. He is survived by his wife, Mary; two daughters, Dell Salza and Kim Petschek; two sons, Bruce and Philip Petschek; two stepchildren, Paul Brenner and Harriet Severino; and 11 grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the First Parish Un
 POLSKY--Sidney. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Sidney Polsky. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Phyllis and family. Mark Kirschner, President POLSKY--Sidney. Our hearts are broken by the loss of Ph
 STRUTH--Bert W., 77 of Armonk, NY died March 30 in Longboat Key, FL. A Gentleman & Scholar. Best friend and beloved husband for 50 years of Barbara (Katz). Devoted father of Alan & Brenda Struth, Susan & Andrew Kantor, Nancy & Kenneth Bernstein. Proud Poppy of Aaron, Misty, Nathan, Ross, Ja
 WAGNER--Rodney B. The Board of Trustees of the American University of Beirut and the AUB community deeply mourn the death of Rodney Wagner, distin guished Trustee of the University for the past 16 years and member of the AUB Board's Executive Committee. Retired Vice Chairman of the Board of
 WEISTROP--Rabbi Jerome. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Temple Shalom (Milton, MA). We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 COLEMAN--Eleanor P. One year ago you closed your eyes on this world and got a better vision of God. May His peace be yours eternally. In loving memory, Eric and Family       
 Robert Creeley, who helped transform postwar American poetry by making it more conversational and emotionally direct, died on Wednesday in Odessa, Tex. He was 78 and had been in residence at a writers' retreat maintained by the Lannan Foundation in Marfa, Tex. The cause was complica
 Akira Yoshizawa, a master paper folder widely acclaimed as the father of modern origami, died on March 14, his 94th birthday, at a hospital near his home in Ogikubo, a suburb of Tokyo. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said June Sakamoto, a board member of Origami USA, based
 Alan Dundes, an internationally renowned folklorist who explored -- rigorously, engagingly and often provocatively -- a vast spectrum of human custom and belief, died on Wednesday after collapsing while teaching at the University of California, Berkeley. He was 70 and lived in Berkeley.    
 Frank Perdue, a Maryland farm boy who became a household word, face and voice in folksy ads for his brand of fresh chickens, died on Thursday at his home in Salisbury, Md. He was 84. He died after a brief illness, his company said, but it did not announce a cause. At his dea
 COCHRAN--Johnnie, L., Jr. We are saddened by the passing of our dear and noble friend. His courtroom achievements were but a small part of the great and good work he did for societies oppressed, his church and people of all color. A fine, decent and moral man, we are diminished by his death
 CUTLER--Earle Newton, III. Of Vero Beach, FL died Wednesday, March 30, 2005, following a brave struggle with cancer. A graduate of St. Paul's School (1958) and Trinity College (1962), he worked for 32 years at J.P. Morgan, rising to Head of Domestic Private Banking. He enjoyed a lifetime of
 GLOTZER--Sol, MD, of Searingtown, NY, on March 31, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Elda. Dear brother and uncle. Devoted and admired friend to the community and his patients. Graveside services Sunday, April 3, 10:30 AM, Beth Moses Cemetery, Lindenhurst, NY.       
 GROSS--Martin Mayer, age 87 passed away at his home in Verona, NJ on Thursday, March 31, after a long illness. He was a professional engineer, a builder and an appraiser. A WWII veteran, Marty served in the US Army Special Engineers unit as a port and dock specialist. Later, he was attached
 WAGNER -- Rodney. World Wildlife Fund mourns the loss of our long time board member and dear friend, Rodney Wagner. He has been mentor, colleague and a stalwart and insightful supporter of WWF for almost 20 years. He was a thoughtful, quiet, yet forceful advocate for the environment and pro
 WHITTAKER -- Arthur on March 30, 2005 at the age of 89, he is survived by his three children, J. Linzee, Robert, and Susan Brancati, and their mother, Theodora Linzee, nine grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. A memorial service will be held 11 am Wednesday, April 6, 2005 at Congregatio
 Donald Carswell, an executive at NBC television and a community leader, died on March 25 at the Brooklyn Hospital Center, where he served as vice chairman. He was 75. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Carswell spent 36 years with NBC and was senior vice president 
 Dr. John B. Buck, a biologist whose studies of fireflies advanced understanding of their behavior and explained their often spectacular displays of synchronized glowing, died on Wednesday at his home in Sykesville, Md., near Baltimore. He was 92. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
 BECKWITH--Charles Gates. 83, of Ponte Vedra, FL, passed away Friday, March 25, 2005. Born in Allentown, PA in 1921. He received a Bachelor's of Architecture from Cornell University after World War II. Captain Beckwith served in the Pacific, and was one of three officers to guard Tokyo Rose,
 BERNARD--Dr. Canute. The Board and staff of the Community Service Society of New York mourn the loss of Dr. Bernard, a former board member from 1983 through 1991. His active concern that healthcare be available to all will be missed. Our deepest sympathy goes to his family. Harvey W. Schult
 BRECKER--Richard L. Of Vero Beach, FL and Nantucket, MA, died unexpectedly of respiratory failure on March 29, 2005. He was 83 years old. Prior to his retirement in l991, he was Chairman of Brecker & Merryman, Inc., an international consulting firm headquartered in New York which he co-foun
 BROWN--Gordon Eames, 93, formerly of Bronxville. The relatives and friends announce with great sorrow the death of Gordon Eames Brown, husband of Loretta Patt Brown, on March 31 after a prolonged illness at the Osborn Retirement Home, 4101 Theall Road, Rye, NY 10580. He was the father of Go
 COCHRAN--Johnnie L. Jr., Esq. The Board of Directors and staff of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corp. are deeply saddened by the loss of the chairman of our board. Our prayers and condolences go out to his family. Mr. Cochran was elected chairman in October 2001 and guide
 FELDMAN--Edgar J. (Bud). On April 1. Formerly of Tenafly, New Jersey. Beloved husband of the late Gwendolyn Kieve. Father of Amy Feldman & Nena Colligan. Grandfather of Ted, Will and Kieve. Services private. May he rest in peace.       
 GALASSO--Ralph. All of us at David Yurman deeply mourn the untimely passing of our beloved friend, counsel and Board member, Ralph Galasso. We miss his intelligence, humor and compassion. We express our deepest sympathies to his wife, Jane, and their children, Ali and Chris, and to all who 
 GEFFEN--Etta Lieberman. Of Hallandale, FL. Beloved wife of the late Marcy. Loving mother of the late Steven B. Geffen and his wife Susan of Armonk, NY. Extraordinarily wonderful grandmother of David and his wife Charlene of Upper Saddle River, NJ, and Deborah Posner and her husband Gordon o
 GLOTZER--Sol, MD, of Searingtown, NY, on March 31, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Elda. Dear brother and uncle. Devoted and admired friend to the community and his patients. Graveside services Sunday, April 3, 10:30 AM, Beth Moses Cemetery, Lindenhurst, NY.       
 GROSS--Martin Mayer, age 87 passed away at his home in Verona, NJ on Thursday, March 31, after a long illness. He was a professional engineer, a builder and an appraiser. A WWII veteran, Marty served in the US Army Special Engineers unit as a port and dock specialist. Later, he was attached
 KLEIN--M. William. Of Fresh Meadows, NY on March 27, 2005. A kind, dear and gentle man. Beloved husband of Joan, brother of Sylvia, father of Janice, Howard and Ronda, grandfather of Molly and Celia. He was a devoted and inspirational teacher of instrumental music to a generation of student
 McGOVERN--Peter J., 90, of Westport, CT. Publicist, died March 31. Beloved husband of Phyllis, father of Scott and Josefina McGovern, Michael and Paula McGovern, grandfather of Jillian. For the past years wrote a weekly column for the Minuteman newspaper. He attended Hartwick College in One
 NECHES--Jacob. 96, longtime resident of Deal Park, NJ. A seventh generation direct descendent of the Vilna Gaon. A psychologist and attorney, Jacob was also former NYC regional administrator for the New York State VA. Past Commander of the Sidney Rosenberg Post (NY) of the American Legion, 
 WAGNER -- Rodney. World Wildlife Fund mourns the loss of our long time board member and dear friend, Rodney Wagner. He has been mentor, colleague and a stalwart and insightful supporter of WWF for almost 20 years. He was a thoughtful, quiet, yet forceful advocate for the environment and pro
 On the night of Oct. 16, 1978, a vast, impatient throng in floodlit St. Peter's Square cheered wildly as white smoke curled from a chimney atop the Sistine Chapel, signaling the election of a new pope. A long wait had ended, but the enthusiasm was somewhat premature. Cardinal Pericl
 Richard Townsend Davies, who served as ambassador to Poland in the waning years of the Cold War, died on Wednesday in Washington after a brief illness, his family said. He was 84 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. As the American envoy in Warsaw from 1973 to 1978, Mr. Davies establishe
 Rodney Belknap Wagner, a retired international banker at what is now J.P. Morgan Chase & Company who handled major debt issues for Saudi Arabia and Mexico and had a second career in philanthropy, died on March 24 in Sarasota, where he had a winter residence. He was 74 and lived in Colebrook
 Dr. Canute C. Bernard, a prominent surgeon and a community leader in Queens, died on March 15 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Jamaica, Queens. The cause was complications from a fall at church, his wife, Daisy Bernard, said. Dr. Bernard
 Guenter Reimann, a Marxist economist early in his career who eventually published one of the most expensive and influential newsletters on international capitalism and monetary exchange, died on Feb. 5 in Valley Stream, N.Y. He was 100 and lived in Manhasset, N.Y. His death was anno
 Marius Russo, a leading Yankees pitcher of the early 1940's who is best remembered for a bizarre and game-turning at-bat in the World Series against the Brooklyn Dodgers, died March 26 in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 90. His death was announced by his wife, Stasia. Russo, a nativ
 AINSLIE--Peter G. 58, of New York City, died suddenly Saturday, April 2, 2005. Born Johnson City, TN. Writer, editor, reporter for Women's Wear Daily, Time Magazine and most recently, Time Warner Corporate. He enjoyed music, humor, cooking, adventures and making sure everyone around him was
 BASSUK--Sidney. 91, of Great Neck, NY, passed away peacefully Saturday night, April 2, 2005. He was surrounded by his loving family. Sid was a longtime CPA and business advisor, confidante, advisor and friend to many. Devoted husband of Selma for 40 years. Beloved father of Richard and Esly
 GEFFEN--Etta Lieberman. Of Hallandale, FL. Beloved wife of the late Marcy. Loving mother of the late Steven B. Geffen and his wife Susan of Armonk, NY. Extraordinarily wonderful grandmother of David and his wife Charlene of Upper Saddle River, NJ, and Deborah Posner and her husband Gordon o
 HASKINS--Reverend Robert J., S.J. On April 1, 2005. Beloved uncle of Douglas Conly, Thomas Conly and Katherine O'Connor. Dear cousin of Edward Haskins. He was Headmaster at Loyola School from 1960-1968. He served at St. Ignatius Church from 1969-1979 and was President of Loyola School from 
 RABIN--Leon J. Of Charleston, SC, and New York City, died on March 31 at 94 years of age. He was the retired owner and operator of Leon's Men's Wear and President of Dawn's Inc. in Charleston, Chairman of Rale Stores in South Carolina, North Carolnia and Newport News, VA. The funeral will b
 SHIPPER--Herbert K. Passed away on April 2, 2005. Cherished husband of Judith (Sigall), beloved father of David, Sandra and Andrew, adored brother of Ronnie Green, loving son of the late Lilly and Sam. His kind, gentle nature and wonderful smile will be missed by all who knew him.       
 WEBER--Damon Daniel. 16, died on March 30, 2005, from a post-transplant infection he fought like the lion he was. He had greater strength, courage and dignity than any man. Damon was born in Brooklyn on August 8, 1988 and lived a full, active and creative life despite severe congenital hear
 WOJTYLA--Karol Jozef. The Members, Board of Trustees, and the Rabbis of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York join with all of God's children in mourning the passing of His Holiness Pope John Paul II. May the Holy One remember him for his unique relationship to the Jewish people and
 Walter Thabit, a leader among city planners in pressing cities to build low-cost housing and encourage diversity in blighted areas, a movement now known as advocacy planning, died on March 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was complications of Barrett's esophagus, in
 Bradford N. Swett, a real estate developer active in the vigorous development of the Upper West Side of Manhattan in the 1980's and 90's, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was glioblastoma, a type of brain cancer, his family said. Mr. Swett boug
 John J. O'Leary, a former ambassador to Chile who helped start negotiations on a free trade agreement between the United States and that country in the late 1990's, died Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 58. The cause was complications of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A
 BASSUK--Sidney. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 GRIFFIN--John Joseph. After a life well lived, John Griffin, North Peninsula Drive, New Smyrna Beach, FL, passed away on March 30, 2005 at the age of 92 at Hospice Care Center, Port Orange, FL. Born in Jamaica, Long Island, NY on March 2, 1913, he is survived by his beloved wife of 54 years
 HODULIK--Charles. Fordham University mourns the loss of Charles Hodulik, the Vice President of our Lincoln Center Campus, and extends its heartfelt condolences to his family. John N. Tognino, Chair, Board of Trustees Joseph M. McShane, S.J., President       
 JOHANNESEN--Grant. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of the distinguished American pianist Grant Johannesen on March 27, near Munich, Germany at the age of 83. A deeply valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 54 years, Mr. Johannesen won acclaim th
 KANE--Maximillian Veracity. Age 2, dancing man, drummer, sax player extraordinaire, a real NYC character. Known on the A train for his flirtations and political commentary. Funeral will take place Tuesday 11:45 A.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street. In lieu of flowers, con
 KATZ--Nathan. The American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors mourns the passing of our devoted and beloved friend and benefactor. With his generosity and inspirational commitment to remembrance of the Holocaust, he was a shining example for the entire survivor community. Our deepest s
 RAPPAPORT--S. Robert. Age 67 of Eastchester died on April 3, 2005, following a long illness. He was a well respected 2nd generation auctioneer. His sense of humor was enjoyed by all who knew him. He is survived by his wife Bunny, his daughter Susan, his son David, daughter-inlaw Gina and hi
 RIVKIN--Sidney, 91, died peacefully on Sunday, surrounded by his beloved children, Judy, Barbara, Joel and ''Lady Day''. He was also devoted to his late wife, Sylvia, his grandchildren, Adam, Joshua, Rachel and Hillary, his siblings, Larry, Gene and Janet, his great-grandchildren, beloved n
 SWETT--Bradford Norris, 69, died at home in New York City on March 31, 2005. The cause of death was a glioblastoma brain tumor. He is survived by his wife, Holly McAllister; his three children, Jennifer Chrisman, Bradford Chance Swett and Hannah Swett, and by his granddaughter, Lucie. He is
 Robert C. Wood, an academic, writer and bureaucrat whose acumen in domestic issues like housing and education prompted Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson to seek his advice and the University of Massachusetts and the Boston school system to name him as their leader, died on Fr
 Edward Maurice Bronfman, the elder of the two brothers known as the Toronto Bronfmans, who created their own corporate realm after being denied a place in their better-known cousins' Seagram liquor kingdom, died on Monday at his home in Toronto. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said
 AINSLIE--Peter G. 58, died on April 2, 2005. Peter's friends and colleagues throughout Time Warner join in mourning his passing. Peter was a first-rate journalist at Women's Wear Daily and Time, where he covered national and international news. He served as director of media relations for t
 GOBER--Jerome. On April 3, 2005. Beloved husband of over 60 years to the late Anne. Loving father of Ira, Mel, Arthur, Frank and Neil. Devoted father-in-law to Mara, Ann, Debbie and Rivki. Cherished grandfather of Randi, Zahi, Rebecca, Ben, Shane, Haley, Michael, Ruben, Sarita, Danny, Seren
 JOHANNESEN--Grant. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of the distinguished American pianist Grant Johannesen on March 27, near Munich, Germany at the age of 83. A deeply valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 54 years, Mr. Johannesen won acclaim th
 JOSEPHS--Ray. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Ray Josephs, a remarkable leader whose generosity and passionate involvement in our Caring Commission, Capital Campaign, and Community Cabinet, as well as his untiring efforts on behalf
 KANE--Howard L., FSA. Of Syosset. Suddenly on April 5, 2005. A principal Consulting Actuary with Millman Consultants. Devoted past president of North Shore Synagogue. Survived by his wife Sandra and daughter Wendy. Funeral servces Thursday, 12 noon at North Shore Synagogue, Syosset, L.I.   
 KATZ--Nathan. Real estate entrepreneur, dead at eightyfive. By Joshua Resnek. Founder of the real estate company bearing his family name and headquartered in Elmhurst, Queens, died Saturday morning, April 2, 2005, at his home in Roslyn following a short illness. Mr. Katz, who was a Holocaus
 PACHNER--Charles W., died April 3, 2005 at age 88. Loving husband of Janice for 57 years. Father of Donald, Bob and Joan. Proud grandfather of Max and Greg Pachner and David and Joshua Newman. Former Chairman and President of Frenkel and Co., Inc. Active in insurance affairs as speaker and 
 ROMNEY--Henry. On April 3, 2005. A helpful and loving friend to his wife Liz, daughters Diana, Cynthia and Donna and grandchildren Emily, Maggie, Megan and Ethan. Funeral services at the Remsenburg Community Church at noon on Wednesday, April 6. ROMNEY--Henry. Dear Henry, you will a
 SHEPARD--Edward Morse, M.D. of Oyster Bay, NY, beloved husband for 25 years of Joan Pulling Shepard, died Sunday, April 3rd at the age of 90. He is survived by his loving children, Reese Alsop Shepard, Paul Cooper Shepard, Wendy Shepard Chisholm, Edward Morse Shepard III and Elizabeth Shepa
 SWETT--Brad. March 31, 2005. Miss your wit and so much more. Psalm 127:3. daughter Cathi Marangos (nee Henderson-Swett) Grandchildren: Steven C., Cecily, Alaina and Peter SWETT--Bradford N. Mentor and friend to the partners and employees of Bradford N. Swett Management. He will be d
 ZABB--Norman J. A memorial service and burial of a longterm resident of New York and most recently Wellington, FL will be held at Royal Palm Memorial Gardens, West Palm Beach, April 6, 11AM. He is survived by his wife, children, grandchildren.       
 Dr. Stanley J. Korsmeyer, a cancer researcher at Harvard who helped discover and investigate a gene that interferes with the natural regeneration of body tissue and creates conditions that often lead to cancer, died on March 31 in Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 54. T
 Saul Bellow, the Nobel laureate and self-proclaimed historian of society whose fictional heroes -- and whose scathing, unrelenting and darkly comic examination of their struggle for meaning -- gave new immediacy to the American novel in the second half of the 20th century, died yesterday at
 Frank Conroy, the author of the classic memoir ''Stop-Time'' and an influence on generations of young writers, died yesterday at his home in Iowa City. He was 69. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Margaret. Mr. Conroy, who headed the Writers' Workshop at the Univers
 Michael Roberts, a restaurateur and chef whose playful and astonishingly successful marriages of preposterous ingredients helped forge the California culinary revolution of the 1980's, died on March 30 at his home in South Philadelphia, where he had lived for the last several years. He was 
 BELLOW--Saul. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Nobel Laureate Saul Bellow. He was the first writer to receive ADL's America's Democratic Legacy Award, in November 1976. We extend our condolences to the entire family. Barbara B. Balser National Chair Abraham H. Foxman Nationa
 HORVITZ--Philip, 44, of Manhattan, of heart failure, March 30. Adored son, brother, uncle and friend. He was the writer, director and choreographer of several theatre works nationwide and the author of other scripts and essays. He trained as an actor and dancer at Circle in the Square and t
 HSH PRINCE RAINIER III of Monaco. The Trustees and staff of the Princess Grace Foundation--USA are profoundly saddened by the death of HSH Prince Rainier III of Monaco. Through His thoughtful and effective leadership, the Foundation was established in 1982 to carry out the ideals and goals 
 JOHANNESEN--Grant. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of the distinguished American pianist Grant Johannesen on March 27, near Munich, Germany at the age of 83. A deeply valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 54 years, Mr. Johannesen won acclaim th
 JOSEPHS--Ray, 93, died April 5, 2005. Founder of one of America's earliest and most successful public relations firms, International Public Relations Co. (N.Y.), a pioneer in international public relations. His clients included Mitsui Bank, Bank of Hong Kong, The Anglo-French Supersonic Air
 MENZIN -- Dr. Sheldon. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Dr. Sheldon Menzin. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Marjorie, and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, President       
 MEYER--Irving A. On April 6, 2005, at the age of 90. Beloved husband of 63 years, to Shirley. Loving father to Charles, and his wife Susan, and Thomas H. Adoring grandfather to Jennifer and Jared. Dear brother to the late Milton, and Pauline Diamond. He will be especially loved and missed b
 PACHNER--Charles. Frenkel & Co., Inc. notes with great sadness the passing of Charles W. Pachner, its former chairman and president. Charles joined Frenkel in 1951 after having practiced law at the firm of Demov and Morris. He pioneered many risk management concepts which are still being us
 QUINTERO--Alfredo, 81, on April 5, 2005. Survived by his wife Nadia, sons Alfredo and Andrew, grandchildren Anna, Elizabeth and Natalie. Mass of the Resurrection Saturday 12:00 PM, Sacred Heart Church, Ashford Ave & Broadway, Dobbs Ferry, NY. Visiting Friday 2-4 & 7-9 Edwards - Dowdle Funer
 WELLIVER--Neil. It is with deep sadness that we mark the death on Tuesday of our dear friend Neil Welliver. The magnificent light filled paintings of his beloved Lincolnville woods will live on along with his great and generous spirit. Our condolences to his wife Mimi and surviving children
 Rainier III of Monaco, the prince whose storybook romance and marriage to the actress Grace Kelly helped promote the transformation of his tiny fief from a pastel postage-stamp fantasy on the Mediterranean into a steel-and-glass tax haven, died yesterday at a hospital in Monaco. He was 81. 
 Neil Welliver, a painter widely admired for his large-scale Maine woods landscapes, died on April 5 in Belfast, Me., near his home in Lincolnville. He was 75. The cause was pneumonia, said Phil Alexandre, Mr. Welliver's New York dealer. Mr. Welliver came of age as an artist 
 BACOT--J. Carter. Dr. Mark Pecker and friends at the Hypertension Center of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical College mourn the passing of a great man and a good friend. We wish to express our deepest condolences to his wife, Shirley, his children and grandchildren. BACOT--J. Ca
 BLISSERT--Robert, of Southbury, CT, formerly of Manhasset, NY, died April 6, 2005. He was the husband of Virginia (Mitchell) Blissert. He retired as President & Chairman of Wire-O-Binding, Inc. after 54 yrs. Besides his wife of 58 yrs, he leaves six daughters and their husbands, one brother
 BODZIN--Paul. Delaire Country Club announces with deep sorrow the passing of their esteemed member, Paul Bodzin, and extends their sincerest sympathy to his wife, Annette, and his beloved family. Daniel Bernheim, Jr. President       
 BRESSMAN--A. Arthur age 91 of Boca Raton, FL formerly of Newark, NJ for almost 35 years passed away April 6, 2005. Born in Passaic NJ, he lived in S. Orange and Verona until 1978. Mr. Bressman was founder of Bressman Furniture Stores in Essex, Passaic, Hudson, Middlesex, and Monmouth Counti
 KANE -- Howard L. The trustees, directors, staff, participants and beneficiaries of the 1199 SEIU Benefit and Pension Funds mourn the loss of our valued actuary and advisor, Howard L. Kane. Howard served the Funds for more than 30 years with indispensable expertise that helped us improve th
 MENZIN--Dr. Sheldon G. Passed away on April 6, 2005, after a brief illness. A physician in the Brooklyn community for nearly 30 years, he was a lifelong resident of LI. His wife, his children & family, & his beloved patients will miss him dearly. He has touched so many in ways that will las
 MEYER--Irving A. On April 6, 2005, at the age of 90. Beloved husband of 63 years, to Shirley. Loving father to Charles, and his wife Susan, and Thomas H. Adoring grandfather to Jennifer and Jared. Dear brother to the late Milton, and Pauline Diamond. He will be especially loved and missed b
 ORENSTEIN--Melvin Ira. Beloved husband of Martha. Loving father to Jeffrey, Richard and Sarah. Adoring grandfather to Ace, Sophie and Benett. Dear brother to David and Michael. He will be missed and remembered by all who knew him. Services on Friday, April 8th, 2005 at 2:00 P.M. from Abraha
 SCHWARTZ--Ozzie, on April 7, 2005, age 74. He spent the past 40 years coaching children on the sports fields of Central Park and Randalls Island. His legacy will live on in the young lives he enriched. Ozzie was a man of honor and dignity, who made a lasting impression on those who knew him
 WASSERMAN -- Al. Died March 31, 2005. Pioneer TV documentary filmmaker, and in retirement photographer and collagist. He is survived by his wife Barbara, his son Paul, his daughter Vicki Lane, his stepson Peter Alson, his grandchildren Jason, Carrie, Julia and Jory, his son-in-law Gary Lane
 WELLIVER--Neil. It is with deep sadness that we mark the death on Tuesday of our dear friend Neil Welliver. The magnificent light filled paintings of his beloved Lincolnville woods will live on along with his great and generous spirit. Our condolences to his wife Mimi and surviving children
 YANOWICZ--Paul. Tel Aviv University and its American Council mourn the passing of Paul Yanowicz, member of the Board of Governors, and the Board of Directors of TAUAC. Our condolences to his wife Anny. Michael H. Steinhardt, Chairman, Board of Governors Prof. Itamar Rabinovich, President, T
 J. Carter Bacot, the former chairman and chief executive of the Bank of New York who transformed it from a traditional bank into a powerhouse in servicing other banks and the securities markets, died on Thursday at his home in Montclair, N. J. He was 72. The cause was cardiac arrest
 Jim Wiwa, a chief of the Ogoni of southern Nigeria who became a symbol of his embattled people after the execution of his son, the dissident environmentalist and playwright Ken Saro-Wiwa, in 1995, died on April 1 at his home in Bane, Nigeria. He was believed to have been 101. Mr. Wi
 Kenneth Morley Wilson, a noted historian of glass manufacture in America, who was long associated with the Corning Museum of Glass and the Henry Ford Museum, died on March 29 at his home in Punta Gorda, Fla. He was 83. He died after a long illness, his family said. The ultim
 BACOT--J. Carter. Died April 7 at his home in Montclair, NJ at age 72. Mr. Bacot served as chairman and chief executive officer of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. from 1982 to 1998 and remained on its Board of Directors until 2003. Under Mr. Bacot's leadership, The Bank of New York compl
 BLISSERT--Robert, of Southbury, CT, formerly of Manhasset, NY, died April 6, 2005. He was the husband of Virginia (Mitchell) Blissert. He retired as President & Chairman of Wire-O-Binding, Inc. after 54 yrs. Besides his wife of 58 yrs, he leaves six daughters and their husbands, one brother
 CONSTON -- Charles. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL. announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Charles Conston. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Shirley and their family. David C. B
 GOTTESMAN--Rabbi Aaron, 63, born in Brooklyn on September 27, 1941, died April 5 in San Diego, his home for the last several decades. Son of Rabbi Harold Zvi and Hadassah. He attended Eitz Chaim, Brooklyn Talmud Academy, and graduated from St. John's in Puerto Rico. He attended YU, JTS, and
 SEIDEN--Paul. On April 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Mascha. Devoted father of Tony (Robyn Jaffe), Brenda Susan (Bert) Lefcort. Loving grandfather of David, Michael, Elizabeth, John and William. Adored brother of Jules and Evelyn, Lore Kohn. Loving uncle. Will miss his kindness, humor and lov
 TURTLETAUB -- Alan. On Tuesday, April 5, 2005, of Makena, HI, formerly of Short Hills, NJ, beloved husband of 57 years to the late Beatrice (nee Feldman), loving father of Marc Turtletaub, cherished grandfather of Alex Turtletaub, dear brother of Morris and David Turtletaub and the late Max
 Al Wasserman, a filmmaker who made movie and television documentaries that won many major awards, died at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan on March 31. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan and Provincetown, Mass. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Barbara, said. Mr. Wasserman, who
 Chalmers M. Roberts, a retired chief diplomatic correspondent for The Washington Post who covered the cold war, the nuclear arms race and the seats of power in Washington in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 94. The cause was congestive heart failu
 Dr. Maynard J. Ramsay, an entomologist noted for his efforts to track and eradicate exotic parasites carried in flowers, fruits and other cargoes arriving from overseas, died on March 20 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 90. The cause was pneumonia, his family said.    
 BACOT -- J. Carter. The Trustees, the President and the entire Hamilton College community mourn the passing of our former Chairman of the Board and Life Trustee. Also the former Chairman and CEO of The Bank of New York, he was a loving husband and father, a wonderful benefactor and a loyal 
 BARDEKOFF--Rabbi Abraham. The Graenum Berger Bronx Jewish Federation Service Center expresses profound sorrow at the passing of our beloved Management Committee member, Rabbi Abraham Bardekoff. May the Almighty comfort his daughters, Betty Rosenfeld and Ellen Bardekoff, his brother Charles 
 CREAN--Thomas D. Born August 12, 1922, Waterbury, CT, died April 9, 2005. Married 56 years to Dorothy Barry. Served his country with the 249th Signal Company, which landed in France in July, 1944. Graduate of Fordham Law, Partner at Brown & Wood. Served as Chairman of Cancer Society of Long
 GOTTESMAN--Rabbi Aaron, 63, born in Brooklyn on September 27, 1941, died April 5 in San Diego, his home for the last several decades. Son of Rabbi Harold Zvi and Hadassah. He attended Eitz Chaim, Brooklyn Talmud Academy, and graduated from St. John's in Puerto Rico. He attended YU, JTS, and
 GRABER--Herman I., died April 2, age 69. Beloved husband, father, and grandfather. Attorney at Law, former NYC Assistant District Attorney, appointed as special prosecutor by the NYS Attorney General for the Attica investigation, and served as Counsel for NYS Parole. He continued his career
 HIRE--Dr. Richard O., died April 6 of lung cancer. Beloved life partner of L.B. Williams. Brother of Jim & David Hire and of Sue Varallo. A dear friend, respected colleague and devoted psychiatrist, he will be deeply missed by the many people who loved him. Memorial Service April 30, 10AM a
 KRASKIN--Leon. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Leon Kraskin of New York City, a former ATS vice president of finance. A devoted colleague, he served with distinction as a senior member of management, helping set the organization on its 
 MARSHALL--Douglas B., Jr. 58, of Houston, Texas died suddenly and unexpectedly on the 30th of March 2005 in Houston. Mr. Marshall was born on the 6th of November 1946 in Houston. Mr. Marshall was preceded in death by his mother, Margaret Cullen Marshall. Mr. Marshall is survived by his fath
 REYNOLDS--Robert, 81, died peacefully after a long illness on March 31. Beloved father of Stafford. He was a talented interior designer, WWII Navy veteran as well as a gentleman, creative spirit and kind friend. Robert's passion and inspired gift for beautification left a fine aesthetic imp
 ROMNEY--Henry. On April 3, 2005. A helpful and loving friend to his wife Liz, daughters Diana, Cynthia and Donna and grandchildren Emily, Maggie, Megan and Ethan. Funeral services at the Remsenburg Community Church at noon on Wednesday, April 6.       
 SCHWARTZ--Ozzie. We are saddened by the passing of a treasured champion. The joy and laughter that Ozzie brought to the children he cared for will ring true in our hearts forever. Cavaliers Day Camp Gil & Roni Mason Emmett Covello       
 SEIDEN--Paul. On April 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Mascha. Devoted father of Tony (Robyn Jaffe), Brenda Susan (Bert) Lefcort. Loving grandfather of David, Michael, Elizabeth, John and William. Adored brother of Jules and Evelyn, Lore Kohn. Loving uncle. Will miss his kindness, humor and lov
 STOLLER--Martin, Ph.D., 49, on April 2, 2005. He was a Clinical Full Professor of Communication at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University. His eloquent teaching style made him the top ranked business school professor in the student ratings for eleven years. He was also a 
 THOMAS--Dana L. On March 21. Author and associate editor of Barron's Weekly. Beloved husband of Melba, loving father of Peter. He was gifted with eloquence and passionate about the mysteries of the human spirit. Commemoration April 16; 206356-8724.       
 TURTLETAUB -- Alan. On Tuesday, April 5, 2005, of Makena, HI, formerly of Short Hills, NJ, beloved husband of 57 years to the late Beatrice (nee Feldman), loving father of Marc Turtletaub, cherished grandfather of Alex Turtletaub, dear brother of Morris and David Turtletaub and the late Max
 VOYNOW--Paul (Pash). Beloved father of Annika and Sasha Voynow, father-in-law of Charles Yang, grandfather of Jonah Yang, and friend, teacher, and colleague died suddenly on April 4, 2005. Family and friends will be gathering in his memory on Sunday, April 10, from 3-5PM at the Cambridge In
 WOLFENDEN -- George Buchanan, Sr., the founding Headmaster of Tampa Preparatory School died peacefully in a hot tub in Duxbury, MA on April 1, 2005. The cause of death was respiratory depression from a Fentanyl transdermal patch. He was born on June 9, 1925 in Indiana, PA. He attended the F
 FERENTZ--Leslie B. Died April 9th. Family and friends mourn the passing of this 87 year old master story teller and decorated WWII combat vet. A gifted salesman in the drug sundries trade, he was also the Secretary of the Rosedale Jewish Center and Independent Wizner Society. In 1958 he was
 HIRE--Dr. Richard O., died April 6 of lung cancer. Beloved life partner of L.B. Williams. Brother of Jim & David Hire and of Sue Varallo. A dear friend, respected colleague and devoted psychiatrist, he will be deeply missed by the many people who loved him. Memorial Service April 30, 10AM a
 MURPHY -- Gavin Palmer. May 26, 1926-April 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Margaretha. Devoted father of Palmer. Survived by brother Vincent B. Murphy Jr. of Bedminster, NJ, and wife Patricia; sister Sheelagh Masterson Castleman of New York and Watch Hill, RI; nine nephews and nieces, their spo
 PEARL--Rabbi Aaron E. Beloved, influential, and trailblazing Rabbi for nearly 50 years; pioneering radio presence in early talk-radio and 1970s assignment as Israel correspondent for WOR Radio and mutual broadcasting; outspoken enthusiast for Israel, provided inspiration and leadership for 
 PETERS--Landon. Of Princeton, NJ, and Edgartown, MA, on April 9, 2005, at age 75, of cerebral hemorrhage. Husband of Florence. Father of Eric and John of Vineyard Haven, MA, David of Hopewell, NJ, Christopher of Dallas, TX, and five grandchildren. Service Tuesday, April 12, at 2 pm, Trinity
 SCHULMAN -- Louis. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its beloved Cantor Emeritus, Chazan Eleazer Schulman. His sweet voice and inspirational prayers have elevated generations of congregants, and his melodies remain a staple of their spiritual lives. To his dear wife Hild
 THOMAS--Dana L. On March 21. Author and associate editor of Barron's Weekly. Beloved husband of Melba, loving father of Peter. He was gifted with eloquence and passionate about the mysteries of the human spirit. Commemoration April 16; 206356-8724.       
 Wilson Carey McWilliams, a political scientist who took a special interest in the moral basis of politics, died on March 29 at his home in Flemington, N.J. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. He was a professor in the department of political science at 
 Archbishop Iakovos, for 37 years the primate of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese in North and South America, a towering figure in the ecumenical movement and the first Greek archbishop in 350 years to officially confer with a pope, died on Sunday at a hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 93 and
 Dr. Maurice R. Hilleman, a microbiologist who developed vaccines for mumps, measles, chickenpox, pneumonia, meningitis and other diseases, saving tens of millions of lives, died yesterday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 85. The cause was cancer, said a son-in-law, Greg Slamowi
 CANTWELL -- Robert. In Greenwich, CT. Retired General Counsel of the Colgate Palmolive Company. Survived by his wife Barbara and children: Robert (Desiree), Helen (Mark Racanelli), Sara and two granddaughters. Service Christ Church Greenwich, 254 E. Putnam Avenue, Greenwich at 11 A.M. April
 GERSTEL -- Julius, died peacefully on April 10, 2005 at age 95. Beloved husband for 71 years of the late Mayme. Father of Joel and Deanne, Joanne & Joel. Grandfather of Sharon, Jeffrey and Karen Gerstel, Harry and Kate Merker. Great-grandfather of Dylan, Alexandra and Mayme. Graveside servi
 HAUPTMAN--Philip Jonathan, died April 10 at the age of 63. A caring geriatric psychiatrist, devoted to his patients far beyond the call of duty. Surving him are his wife, Natalie, his sister Rabbi Judith, his brother-in-law, Milton Adesnik, and his three nephews, Ariel, Moshe, and Hillel. F
 IAKOVOS--Archbishop. The Executive Commitee, Board of Trustees and members of the Archbishop Iakovos Leadership 100 Endowment Fund Incorporated express their deep sorrow at the passing of Leadership 100's founder on April 10, 2005, and exclaim profound appreciation for his extraordinary min
 MALFITANI--Nicholas. Beloved son of Louis & Frances Malfitani died suddenly on April 9, 2005. He was 43. Devoted brother of Anthony, Joseph, Louis and Rosemary Malfitani. Uncle of Catherine & Michael Malfitani. Visiting hours will be held at the Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Avenue, Pelha
 MASRI--Saleh. The American Friends of David Yellin College of Education mourn the passing of a staunch supporter and board member, Saleh Masri. His commitment to Zionism and the Jewish people served as an example to all. Our sincerest condolences to his family. Eli Strum, President Margie P
 PETERS--Landon. Of Princeton, NJ, and Edgartown, MA, on April 9, 2005, at age 75, of cerebral hemorrhage. Husband of Florence. Father of Eric and John of Vineyard Haven, MA, David of Hopewell, NJ, Christopher of Dallas, TX, and five grandchildren. Service Tuesday, April 12, at 2 pm, Trinity
 ROSE--Harold J., DDS, Dorset, VT, 90, died peacefully at his Miami Beach home on April 9. Graduated 1949 Temple School of Dentistry; member AO and John Kolmer Honorary Society; 25 year practice in Bayside; then 5 years in Manchester Center, VT. With the late Dr. Saul Kaman, he treated the d
 SEBBA -- Samuel. Yeshiva University and its Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies mourn the loss of this distinguished Jewish leader and philanthropist who was a founding member of the Board of Directors of BRGS. From his homes in London and Israel, Mr. Sebba generously supported 
 SIMON--Abbott, 89, died April 8th, 2005, in his sleep, at home in Brooklyn. Beloved husband of the late Priscilla, cherished father of Andrea and Abigail Simon and Michael Orlan sky, grandfather of Robin and Tamar, uncle of Reuben and Rebecca, loving and loyal friend to many. A tireless act
 WALSH--Richard J., Jr. 92, retired book publisher, died April 7, 2005 in Bedford, MA. He was the President of the John Day Co. (NYC). He is survived by sister, Elizabeth Churchill, two sons: Jeremy A. Walsh, David H. Walsh, six grandchildren and three great grandchildren.       
 WARNER--Robert C. Professor Emeritus, Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, School of Biological Sciences, University of California at Irvine, died March 25th, 2005. Beloved husband of Estelle; father of Peter, Jisho and Victoria and stepfather of Ruth Anderson. He did his undergraduate work 
 BACOT--J. Carter. The Board of Directors and staff of the United Way of New York City are saddened by the loss of our friend and former Board Chairman and Chief Volunteer Officer, J. Carter Bacot. Carter was a devoted champion of the United Way movement and a tireless leader who cared deepl
 BEACH--John Warren, 93, of Scarborough, NY, formerly of Mt. Kisco and Bedford Hills, NY, died on April 10. Former circulation manager for Guideposts Magazine. Husband of Josephine and the late Marion L. Beach. Father of John of Bedford, NY; Bennett of Bethesda, MD; Randall of New Haven, CT 
 FRIEDRICKS--Martin B., 77, of Sarasota, FL formerly of Lake Success, NY. Adored husband and best friend of 55 years to Barbara Chris Kringel Friedricks. Cherished father of Linda Halper (Rob), Kenneth Friedricks (Kathy), Bruce Friedricks (Amy). Sweetest Poppy to Jeremy and Zach Halper, Emil
 GILMOUR--Lloyd Straube, an artist, magician, investment banker and film producer, died of natural causes on April 7 at his home in Wellfleet, MA. He was 77 years old. Mr. Gilmour graduated from Harvard College in 1950. From 1951-1954 he served in the U.S. Army Counter Intelligence Corps (CI
 HAUPTMAN -- Philip, M.D. Isabella Geriatric Center mourns the loss of its friend, colleague, and distinguished member of the Medical Staff. His dedication, integrity, and wisdom have enriched the lives of those he touched. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Mark J. Kator, Pr
 HILLEMAN--Maurice R. The Board of Trustees and Scientific Advisory Council of the Albert B. Sabin Vaccine Institute note with great sorrow the loss of Dr. Maurice R. Hilleman, on April 11, 2005. A true giant among scientists, Dr. Hilleman is credited with developing more vaccines than any o
 IAKOVOS--Archbishop. The Executive Commitee, Board of Trustees and members of the Archbishop Iakovos Leadership 100 Endowment Fund Incorporated express their deep sorrow at the passing of Leadership 100's founder on April 10, 2005, and exclaim profound appreciation for his extraordinary min
 LEVIN--Wilbur A., 84, died at home on April 12, 2005. He was County Clerk and Clerk of the Supreme Court and Commissioner of Jurors, Kings County, and former President, CEO and Chairman of Independence Savings Bank, and President of Martin's Department Store. Bill was a long-time board memb
 SCHULMAN--Cantor Eleazer. World renowned Chazzan who served the Great Neck Synagogue for 36 years. Loving husband of Hilda, devoted father of Debra, Gary, and Larry and cherished grandfather. His cantorial repertoire and magnificent voice provided inspiration for all who heard him.       
 SCHWARTZ -- David Got tschalk, Dr. Died On April 12, 2005, at the age of 87. Beloved husband of Phyllis Kess, father of Jonathan, Douglas and Thomas. Grandfather of Gregory, Andrew and Jennifer. Devoted to his family, medicine and his many patients. Attended Townsend Harris High School, Cor
 Paul K. Perry, an architect of the Gallup Poll who pieced through the wreckage of pollsters' stunningly wrong predictions that President Harry S. Truman would be defeated in 1948 to improve forecasts for future elections, died on April 7 at a hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 95. T
 Wilbur A. Levin, the Kings County clerk and a longtime civic and business leader in New York City, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his daughter Kate D. Levin said. Mr. Levin's official title was county clerk and clerk of the Supreme 
 Chen Yifei, one of the China's most acclaimed and commercially successful painters and visual artists, died here on Sunday. He was 59. His death followed a stomach hemorrhage he suffered while working on a feature film, ''Barber,'' the official New China News Agency reported.       
 Johnnie Johnson, the blues and early rock 'n' roll pianist who played on many of Chuck Berry's early hits and performed with Mr. Berry for more than 20 years, died yesterday at home in St. Louis, according to a statement from his publicist, Margo Lewis. He was 80, according to Ms. Lewis.   
 ARMSTRONG--Thomas E. II, 67, died April 12, in Greenwich, CT. He was a Director and Executive Vice President of Brant-Allen Industries in Greenwich, CT. He is survived by his wife Maxine K. Armstrong, and daughters Elizabeth & Amanda; sister, Christy McKenzie. Services will be Friday, April
 FISCHMAN--Herbert J., 88. Died on April 13, 2005. Adored husband and best friend to Helen for 60 years. Cherished father of Meryl Ain and Arthur Fischman, father-in-law of Stewart Ain and Janet Margolies, loving grandfather of Jonathan, Daniel and Michael Ain, Anna and Molly Fischman, grand
 GEER--Major. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Major Geer, MD, former member of St. Luke'sRoosevelt's Department of Medicine and Division of Cardiology. To his family, friends and all of th
 HILLEMAN--Maurice, MD, one of the world's greatest public health heroes, developed more than 40 vaccines that prevented the death and suffering of millions. His remarkable legacy laid the scientific groundwork for our ongoing efforts to develop safe, effective vaccines for AIDS, tuberculosi
 IAKOVOS--Archbishop. We mourn the passing of our great religious leader and dear friend. He will always be remembered as a role model for those who strive to achieve a better society for all mankind. Peter and Elizabeth Coufos       
 KASS--Dr. Stanley. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 LEVIN--Wilbur A., 84, died at home on April 12, 2005. He was County Clerk and Clerk of the Supreme Court and Commissioner of Jurors, Kings County, and former President, CEO and Chairman of Independence Savings Bank, and President of Martin's Department Store. Bill was a long-time board memb
 MANN--Rabbi Jacob. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing in Israel of a distinguished and dedicated rabbinic leader who served 62 of his 70 years in the rabbinate as spiritual leader of Beth Israel Synagogue in Quincy, Mass. Revered by all who knew him, he was the beloved
 OSTROW--Barnet. Formerly of Roslyn, L.I. Passed away April 12, 2005 after a long illness. Devoted husband of Annette Glassman Ostrow, loving father of son Ronald and daughter-in-law Beth and son Bono Yvertes and daughterin-law Nancy. He will be deeply missed by his cherished grandchildren A
 SCHWARTZ -- David Got tschalk, Dr. Died On April 12, 2005, at the age of 87. Beloved husband of Phyllis Kess, father of Jonathan, Douglas and Thomas. Grandfather of Gregory, Andrew and Jennifer. Devoted to his family, medicine and his many patients. Attended Townsend Harris High School, Cor
 SILLECK--Robert Bosworth, 87, of Greenwich, Connecticut, died peacefully at Greenwich Hospital on April 10, 2005. Mr. Silleck was born on June 5, 1917 in Brooklyn, New York. He graduated from The Hill School in Pottstown, Pennsylvania and from Yale University in 1939. He attended OCS at Ann
 SIMON--Abbott. Trusted and beloved counsel, advisor and friend. Every one of us was captivated by his many remarkable stories, his personal history, and his tireless devotion to bettering the world. Abbott Simon will truly be missed. Francis Greenburger, Chairman and CEO, and his colleagues
 YALOF--Harvey I. Beloved husband of Marion, father of David (Andrea), Abigail (Brendan), Catherine (Scott), grandfather of Rachel, Jane, Ethan, Matthew, Maya, Julia and Benjamin; brother of Philip and Herbert. His warm heart and sense of humor will be forever missed. Funeral services today,
 Andr Franois, the French cartoonist and illustrator whose biting satires of the human comedy influenced a generation of American editorial illustrators to veer from traditional realism, died on Monday at his home in Grisy-les-Pltres, France. He was 89. The cause was heart and 
 Andr Franois, the French cartoonist and illustrator whose biting satires of the human comedy influenced a generation of American editorial illustrators to veer from traditional realism, died on Monday at his home in Grisy-les-Pltres, France. He was 89. The cause was heart and 
 ARMSTRONG--Thomas E. II, 67, died April 12, in Greenwich, CT. He was a Director and Executive Vice President of Brant-Allen Industries in Greenwich, CT. He is survived by his wife Maxine K. Armstrong, and daughters Elizabeth & Amanda; sister, Christy McKenzie. Services will be Friday, April
 ATKINSON--Robert Milo, of Rye, NY, formerly of Manhattan. Adored by his many, many friends. His contagious personality drew people to him and his loyalty made him a friend not easily forgotten. Survived by his two loving nieces, Susan and Laurie, and two loving nephews, John and Robert. Bob
 DIAMOND--Bruce M., on April 13, 2005. Beloved husband and best friend of Esther Sue. Son of the late Arnold & Dorothy Diamond. He was a generous man and exceptional friend who enjoyed a good joke, a good meal, a good book, bad TV and classical music. He lived life to the fullest. DI
 KAHN--Bernard. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved benefactor, Bernard Kahn. Bernie generously supported many programs and services during his association with Beth Israel, often in memory of his late wife and dau
 LEVIN--Wilbur A., 84, died at home on April 12, 2005. He was County Clerk and Clerk of the Supreme Court and Commissioner of Jurors, Kings County, and former President, CEO and Chairman of Independence Savings Bank, and President of Martin's Department Store. Bill was a long-time board memb
 LILIENFELD--Arthur, born July 8, 1915, of West Palm Beach, Fla., and for more than 60 years of New York City. Died peacefully April 13, 2005. Arthur, loving and devoted husband of Margaret for 53 years, will long be remembered by his many friends for his wonderful good humor, cheerfulness, 
 MONTESANO -- Richard J. Passed away on April 13, 2005 at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He was born on November 18, 1941 in Brooklyn. N.Y. Dick Montesano was a Senior Vice President of Marketing Research for Disney ABC Television Network in Manhattan. After his retirement, he founded and b
 ROSE--Harold J., DDS, Dorset, VT, 90, died peacefully at his Miami Beach home on April 9. Graduated 1949 Temple School of Dentistry; member AO and John Kolmer Honorary Society; 25 year practice in Bayside; then 5 years in Manchester Center, VT. With the late Dr. Saul Kaman, he treated the d
 VARET -- Guster V, died peacefully at home on April 13th at age 96. He was the beloved husband of 68 years of his adored wife, Frances, who survives him. Born in Russia in 1908 he immigrated to the United States as a young child and grew up in Freehold, New Jersey. He attended New York Univ
 YALOF--Harvey. The Needlers Foundation mourns the loss of its beloved past president, Harvey Yalof. His sense of humor and friendship will be missed. Jerry Fishman, President       
 ZISSELMAN--Isaac W. Husband of Marcia, father of Jeffrey and Marc and grandfather of Lexi and Remi, died on April 13, 2005, of multiple myeloma. He graduated from Brooklyn College, Brooklyn Law School and had a Master's in tax law from NYU. He was a tax expert. Service April 15 at 10AM, Riv
 Philip Pavia, a sculptor who was a powerful force in the midcentury avant-garde art scene in New York, died on Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke he had two weeks ago, said his wife, Natalie Ed
 John T. McTernan, a left-wing legal gunslinger who prowled the nation to defend people accused of being Communists in the McCarthy years and who aided unpopular clients like Angela Davis and Cesar Chavez's United Farm Workers, died on March 28 at a nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. He wa
 Norbert Brainin, the founding first violinist of the Amadeus Quartet, a string quartet that played together in the same constellation for 40 years and was one of the most active and most recorded of its day, died on April 10 in Harrow, England. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said 
 FREEMAN--Rabbi Isaac. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, a gentle and kind pastoral rehabilitation counselor. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 GINSBURG--David, 89 years old, died on April 15th, 2005. Beloved husband of Pearl. Devoted father of Sandra and Charles Anjard and Howard and Sharon Ginsburg and stepfather of Ronald Steinberg, Arnold and Diane Steinberg, Sharyn and Rabbi Moshe Edelman and Alan and Orly Steinberg. Cherished
 KAHN--Charles S. On April 14, 2005, in West Palm Beach, FL, at age 88. Chuck was married for 56 years to his beloved wife, Shirley, who predeceased him by eleven months. He is survived by his loving daughter Marguerite and his devoted son Gene and his wife Connie. He was the proud grandfath
 MASRI -- Saleh. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the loss of Saleh Masri, a Guardian of the Hebrew University and a dedicated friend of Israel and its people. His years of leadership and support provided vital scholarships for deserving 
 VARET -- Guster V, died peacefully at home on April 13th at age 96. He was the beloved husband of 68 years of his adored wife, Frances, who survives him. Born in Russia in 1908 he immigrated to the United States as a young child and grew up in Freehold, New Jersey. He attended New York Univ
 ATKINSON--Robert Milo, of Rye, NY, formerly of Manhattan. Adored by his many, many friends. His contagious personality drew people to him and his loyalty made him a friend not easily forgotten. Survived by his two loving nieces, Susan and Laurie, and two loving nephews, John and Robert. Bob
 BAKER--David G., 64, formerly of New York and Jersey City passed away peacefully April 2, 2005 in Reno, NV. A writer, editor and publisher, David was much admired by his friends and family. His brother, nieces and nephews survive him.       
 BAXTER--Richard S. 93, on April 8, 2005, of natural causes, in Peterborough, NH. He and his wife Katherine Iriving Baxter, who died in January, 2005, were formerly residents of Rye and Southampton, NY. He was a graduate of Harvard College and NYU Law School, and was with the firm of Duer, S
 BEINART--Melvin. Died April 11, 2005 at the age of 81, ravaged by Alzheimer's Disease. Beloved husband of Joan for twenty-five years and, before his terrible illness, her great and loyal companion, joyous mate and best friend. Cherished and generous father and stepfather of Stephen Beinart,
 BERNSTEIN--George Alexander. A memorial service will be held Wednesday, April 20, 7-10 pm, 15 Waterside Plaza in Manhattan. George died on March 30, 2005, at 89. The former WWII Army Captain and broadcaster was a Vice President at Morgan Stanley. He is survived by sons, Adam and Anthony, da
 FISLER--Robert Parke, 84, in Newburyport, MA, died April 10 while in the company of his loving family. He was preceded in death by his wife, Elizabeth (nee Parker) of 45 years who died on December 14, 2004. Mr. Fisler is survived by his children and extended family including Barbara and her
 GEER--Major, M.D. On April 11, 2005. Member Division of Cardiology, Harlem Hospital Center; Founding Member Association of Black Cardiologists. His commitment to the care of patients will continue to serve as an example for all the physicians he has taught.       
 GINSBURG--David, 89 years old, died on April 15th, 2005. Beloved husband of Pearl. Devoted father of Sandra and Charles Anjard and Howard and Sharon Ginsburg and stepfather of Ronald Steinberg, Arnold and Diane Steinberg, Sharyn and Rabbi Moshe Edelman and Alan and Orly Steinberg. Cherished
 JENNINGS--Richard M. 61, Candler, FL. Richard Martin Jennings, a union iron worker, died Wednesday, April 13, 2005. A native of NYC, he moved to Candler in 1981, where he resided at 11030 S.E. 105th St, Candler, FL 32111. Mr. Jennings was a US Army veteran. Survivors include his wife Carol 
 KAHN--Charles S. On April 14, 2005, in West Palm Beach, FL, at age 88. Chuck was married for 56 years to his beloved wife, Shirley, who predeceased him by eleven months. He is survived by his loving daughter Marguerite and his devoted son Gene and his wife Connie. He was the proud grandfath
 KIRSCHENBAUM -- Robert. On April 16, 2005. Loving, adoring husband and partner of Harriet for 52 years. Devoted parent of Ben, Roger, Leslie and Adrienne. Proud Papa of Peter. A leader in the moving industry for over 50 years and a genuine friend to all he knew. We will all miss him and rem
 MATHIEU--Charles L. Jr., 85, of New York City, Southampton and Palm Beach, FL, died April 6, 2005. Born in Flushing, Queens, raised on Long Island, he attended Columbia University. Following Pearl Harbor, he joined the Marines, fighting at Guadacanal, later being discharged as a Captain. He
 MELIS--Jose, formerly of Bronxville, NY, passed away in Sun City, AZ on Tuesday April 7th, 2005. Best known as the Musical Director for Jack Paar's Tonight Show, Jose was born in Havana, Cuba on February 27th, 1920. A child prodigy, he began studying piano when he was three years old, with 
 OSTROW--Barnet. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Barnet Ostrow, whose legacy of support for the Jewish community continues through the benevolence of his family. We extend our deepest sympathies to Barnet's beloved wife, Annette;
 PEIPERS--David Harald. 48, died on April 13, 2005, in Tallahassee, FL, from complications following pneumonia. He was a graduate of Groton School, Harvard College, and Harvard Law School, and was active in venture capital in the United States and abroad. He was a dedicated board member of m
 PUTTERMAN -- S. Robert. Died peacefully on April 15, 2005, one month shy of his 100th birthday. Devoted husband of Leonore. Beloved father of Eric (Debby). Cherished grandfather of Alexander and Allison. He was an attorney for the Men's Clothing Unions of New York City and was instrumental 
 SALINGER--Frank. On April 16, 2005, at 91. Beloved husband of the late Ann. Devoted father of Barbara and Peter and his wife Sherry. Adored grandfather of Andrew and David. Services Monday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SOKOLOFF--Karel. Of ''The Greatest Generation,'' a Brooklyn College grad, WWII Army Vet, died April 12. Beloved husband of Florence, devoted father of Elisabeth, Madelon, and Natalie, grandchildren Nicholas, Erica, Gabriel, Harry and Loughlin, and two great granddaughters. President of Pros
 VARET -- Guster V, died peacefully at home on April 13th at age 96. He was the beloved husband of 68 years of his adored wife, Frances, who survives him. Born in Russia in 1908 he immigrated to the United States as a young child and grew up in Freehold, New Jersey. He attended New York Univ
 WIDICK--Joshua died April 11, 2005 in NYC. He was born September 10, 1974 in Akron, OH. He grew up in Broadview Hts, OH graduating from Brecksville High School in 1993. He graduated Summa Cum Laude from Case Western University in 1997 where he was a member of Sigma Nu Fraternity. As a Phi B
 WILAMOWSKI--Rita (Ramler), 92, April 15, in Riverdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late Josef and mother of Jacob and his wife Susan. Devoted grandmother of Josef and Howard.       
 Ralph D. Gardner, a writer and advertising executive and a biographer of Horatio Alger, died on March 30 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of diabetes, his son Ralph Jr. said. A freelance contributor to The New 
 Jos Melis, a classically trained pianist who helped pioneer a broadcasting genre as orchestra leader for the ''Tonight'' show with Jack Paar, died April 7 at Boswell Memorial Hospital in Sun City, Ariz. He was 85. The cause was a respiratory infection, said his son, Michael Melis,
 ATKINSON--Robert Milo, of Rye, NY, formerly of Manhattan. Adored by his many, many friends. His contagious personality drew people to him and his loyalty made him a friend not easily forgotten. Survived by his two loving nieces, Susan and Laurie, and two loving nephews, John and Robert. Bob
 CHICUREL--Captain Michael M. Of Long Beach, NY, passed away on Friday, April 15. He was 86 years old. Born in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn, NY, Captain Chicurel developed a love of the ocean that ushered him into a distinguished career in maritime affairs. He graduated from the Unit
 DAVEY--Bruce James. 77, on April 13, 2005. He retired as senior vice-president and treasurer of New York Life Insurance Company in 1992 after 34 years of service. Beloved father of Lynn Leahey, Laurie Mindich, Bruce Davey, Jr. and Suzanne Manelski, husband of Julia Twyford Davey, and 10 gra
 KIRSCHENBAUM -- Robert. On April 16, 2005. Loving, adoring husband and partner of Harriet for 52 years. Devoted parent of Ben, Roger, Leslie and Adrienne. Proud Papa of Peter. A leader in the moving industry for over 50 years and a genuine friend to all he knew. We will all miss him and rem
 PETTERSON--James B., age 80, died on Monday, March 28, 2005. Born October 9, 1924 in Worcester, MA, he was the son of B. Elmer and Ellen M. Petterson. Mr. Petterson graduated cum laude from Harvard in 1945. He then went on to serve in the U.S. Navy and to graduate from Harvard Law School. M
 QUINN--Robert C. Jr. On April 16, 2005, in his 97th year. Devoted husband of 70 years to Mary (nee Nettuno). Loving father of Patricia. Reposing Monday, 2-4 and 7-9 pm, at Riverdale-on-Hudson Funeral Home, 6110 Riverdale Ave, Bronx. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, 11 am, at St. Gabriel's 
 SALINGER--Frank. On April 16, 2005, at 91. Beloved husband of the late Ann. Devoted father of Barbara and Peter and his wife Sherry. Adored grandfather of Andrew and David. Services Monday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SCHMIED--Joseph. 97, Richmond Hill, NY. Best known as ''Uncle Joe'', died Friday, April 15, 2005. Born June 3, 1907, in Brooklyn, NY. Started his career with the Consolidated Edison Electric Company in the 1930s. Later created his own company called (Schmied Neon Signs) at 852 Wyckoff Avenu
 Joe Nash, a leading archivist of black dance in the United States, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. Mr. Nash, who lived in Manhattan, was 85. The cause was complications of cardiovascular problems, said Rashidah Ismaili, a friend. Mr. Nash built one of the country's l
 Kenneth Schermerhorn, a conductor who directed the Nashville Symphony since 1983 and was the music director of the American Ballet Theater and the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra for several years, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 75. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said Alan
 ATKINSON--Robert M. The law firm of Russo & Burke mourns the loss of our friend and colleague. Bob was a gifted attorney who practiced in Manhattan for over 50 years. A graduate of Fordham University and NYU Law School, Bob was dedicated to his clients. Heartfelt condolences to his friends 
 FRIEDMAN--Eugene. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Eugene Friedman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres FRIEDMAN--Dr. Eugene, our brother-in-law, with love, admira
 GIORDANI--John E. (age 63), born June 10, 1942, in the Bronx, New York, passed away April 16, 2005 in Newport Beach, CA. A resident of Orange County since 1986, John was the son of Benvenuto Giordani, who immigrated to America from Italy in 1929, and Louise Landi. John grew up in the Bronx 
 GOODMAN--Louis. Of Riverdale, NY. Born January 6, 1934, died April 18, 2005. Beloved husband of Carole. Devoted father of Jessica and Gabrielle. Loving grandfather of seven. Adored brother of Arlene and Maxine. Uncle and friend. Architect, Building Official of New Rochelle and Code Consulta
 HAUPTMAN--Philip J., M.D. The staff of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital acknowledges with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend Philip J. Hauptman, M.D., associate attending physician in the department of psychiatry. Dr. Hauptman was particularly active in the hospital's ger
 LEUZZI--Dr. Anthony P., of New Bern, NC died Saturday, April 16. He practiced Psychiatry in many NY hospitals.       
 MARTINEZ--Miguel Osvaldo (Mickey). b. May 27, 1937, Barrio Obrero, Santurce, Puerto Rico, d. April 17, 2005, at his beloved home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Tennis Player Extraordinaire, Olympic Track Star. Beloved husband of Mary Alice (Riddle). Loving father of Miguel O., RitaAlicia (James R
 MEISTRICH--Arnold J., of Scarsdale, New York, after an illness. Born June 2, 1933. Loving son, nephew and cousin. He was retired as Budget Director of Met Life.       
 SCHURMAN--Peter T., 74, entrepreneur and philanthropist of New Canaan, CT, died April 13, 2005. Son of Kersten Taube Schurman and George Munro Schurman, grandson of Jacob Gould Schurman, philosopher, President of Cornell University and Ambassador to Germany. Mr. Schurman grew up in Bedford,
 WALSH--Leo M. Jr. On April 17. Retired executive of the Equitable Life Assurance Society. Beloved husband of Ann Quinn Walsh. Devoted father of Christine, Rosemary, Paul, Kathryn, Mark, Leo and Regina. Cherished grandfather of nine. Fond brother of Carol Adach. Also survived by many loving 
 Dr. Richard Henry Popkin, a historian of philosophy and its particular tradition of skeptical thought, died on Thursday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications of emphysema, his family said. Skepticism, a hallmark
 Sam Mills, who defied those who believed he was too small for pro football and became a Pro Bowl linebacker who was honored by the Carolina Panthers with a bronze statue outside their stadium, died Monday. He was 45. Mills, the Panthers' linebackers coach, died at his home here afte
 Big House Gaines, whose 828 victories at Winston-Salem State University rank fifth on the career list among men's college basketball coaches, died Monday at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 81. The cause was complications from a stroke, the Winston-Salem State's sports infor
 Charles McC. Hauser, a longtime editor of The Providence Journal who risked prison by defying a federal judge in a First Amendment battle, died on Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 76. He died after a three-day illness, The Journal said in reporting his death. He was the executive 
 ABRAMSON--David A., Ph.D. 90, on April 18, 2005. Beloved husband of 63 years of Lillian (Salwen) Abramson. Father of Joel (Blima) and Rebecca. Grandfather of Racheli (Abramson) and David Harris, Gabriel Abramson Rhodes and Shayna Abramson. Great grandfather of Hadas and Ariel Harris. Ph.D. 
 AWN--Richard P., 53, on April 18. Beloved husband of Loretta A. Berardi. Loving son of Isabel and the late Elias J. Awn. Devoted father of Richard Jr., Dr. Susan Awn Underwood and Peter, and devoted stepfather of Christian Sprague. Cherished brother of Claudette Maraziti, Dr. Peter Awn and 
 EIGEN--Dr. Stuart A. Loving husband of Natalie. Beloved father of Michael, Edward and Robert, dear father-in-law of Sara and Maggie, adored grandfather of Henry, Jake, Philip and Charlotte. Services will be at Riverside, Amsterdam & 76 St, Thursday, 10am. Contributions to be made to the McC
 FRIEDMAN -- Eugene W. M.D., 86. On April 18, 2005, from complications of prostate cancer. Beloved husband of Geraldine (Gerry) Gewirtz Friedman, devoted father to John and Robert Friedman, brother to David Friedman and grandfather of Elizabeth, Katie, Caroline and Meredith. A noted New York
 KENNEDY--Richard T.P. The staff and volunteers of Thirteen/WNET New York mourn the loss and celebrate the life of our beloved friend and colleague, Richard T.P. Kennedy, a well-respected producer with Thirteen's on-air production department. His devotion to excellence and commitment to the 
 KIRSCHENBAUM--Robert. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and former member, Robert Kirschenbaum. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his son Ben. Allen J. Ross, President       
 KROON--Andrew Richard, 24, of Rumson, NJ, died Saturday in New Haven. He was a committed environmentalist, interested in the Amazon's sustainable forestry. As a Yale student, he helped create a sustainable food initiative, co-authored a study on university energy use, spoke at the UN World 
 MEADMORE -- Clement. Friend and sculptor. Created a beautiful form of geometry. His art lives on. Peter and Alexandra Rose       
 NORMAN--Dr. Sidney. On April 18, 2005. Loving husband of Joan for 55 years; devoted father of Amy, Susan and David; proud grandfather; and brother of Milton and the late Sonia Goldrick. A dentist for more than half a century, he made a difference to many families in the Brooklyn community w
 RAPHAEL--Albert J., MD. 91, of Greenwich, Ct., retired Surgeon Maimonides Medical Center. Survived by his wife Lolly, sons Steven and David, daughters-in-law Audrey and Brenda, grandchildren Laura, Joseph, Sarah and Benjamin. Services Hawthorne Funeral Home, Hawthorne, N.Y., Wednesday 12:30
 THEISEN--Vincent A. (Ty), 91, a prominent attorney in Wilmington, DE, died suddenly on April 17, 2005. Ty graduated from Colgate University and Harvard Law School. He is survived by his wife, Mary Duggan Jornlin; three daughters, Deborah Clough, The Villages, FL, Pamela Morss, Manchester, M
 Lt. Cmdr. Wheeler B. Lipes, who performed a storied appendectomy while a pharmacist's mate aboard a submarine in the Pacific during World War II, died on Sunday in New Bern, N.C. He was 84. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter-in-law, Berniece Lipes. On Sept. 1
 Clement Meadmore, a sculptor who wrestled hulking lengths of steel into abstract artworks of arresting fluidity and lightness, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Peter Rose, a New York art dealer 
 Martin Blumenson, a military historian who wrote extensively about American commanders and campaigns in World War II, died last Friday at his home in Washington. He was 86. He died after a brief illness, said his son, John J-G. Blumenson. Mr. Blumenson wrote biographies of G
 AWN--Richard P., 53, on April 18. Beloved husband of Loretta A. Berardi. Loving son of Isabel and the late Elias J. Awn. Devoted father of Richard Jr., Dr. Susan Awn Underwood and Peter, and devoted stepfather of Christian Sprague. Cherished brother of Claudette Maraziti, Dr. Peter Awn and 
 BERMAN--Roy Victor. Born February 9, 1919, Williamsburg, NY, died April 18, 2005 in NYC. Beloved husband of June & father extraordinaire to Andrew and Mark. All those who knew him well will miss him dearly.       
 BUTTERWORTH--J. Warner II, ''Duke'', 68, April 17, 2005 of lymphoma in New York City surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of Diana Townsend-Butterworth, devoted father of James and Diana Jr. Son of the late J. Ebert and Dorothy Butterworth. Princeton '59, former naval reserve officer a
 CHUDNOW--Avrum. Jewish National Fund family mourns the loss of friend and benefactor, Avrum Chudnow of Milwaukee. Founding member of JNF's World Chairman's Council, Chudnow's vision and love of Israel culminated in the creation of one of Israel's most prominent national parks, Park Timna. H
 EIGEN--Dr. Stuart A. Loving husband of Natalie. Beloved father of Michael, Edward and Robert, dear father-in-law of Sara and Maggie, adored grandfather of Henry, Jake, Philip and Charlotte. Services will be at Riverside, Amsterdam & 76 St, Thursday, 10am. Contributions to be made to the McC
 KELMAN -- Captain Peter Bruce, 75, on April 19, from ALS. Loving and devoted husband of 52 years to Laura (Ramsden) Kelman. Father of Wendy (Neu), Zoey (Shinn), Sally (Osman), Bobby, Jackie (Bisbee), Peter Jr. and seven grandchildren. He is also survived by a brother, Alistair, in England, 
 WEINSTEIN--Harry. September 10, 1910-April 14, 2005. Manhattan native. Farm boy. ASCAP songwriter. Semi-pro golfer. Lifelong Times reader and crossword master. Survived by beloved wife Lillie, daughter and son-in-law Janet and Bill Epstein and daughter Martha Alpert. He always seemed larger
 WINANS--Charles. For a generation of students at Brooklyn Prep, he was a dazzling teacher, a wise mentor, a guide to parts unknown, and an insightful mystic. To us, he was simply and always ''Charlie'', and forever the name and the thought of him will conjure for us the noblest aspects of l
 Peter F. Flaherty, a former mayor of Pittsburgh who was briefly deputy United States attorney general under President Jimmy Carter, died on Monday at his home in the Pittsburgh suburb of Mount Lebanon, Pa. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his son Shawn said. A Democrat, Mr. 
 Dr. Saunders Mac Lane, a mathematician at the University of Chicago who helped to develop category theory, an abstract branch of algebra that has applications in computer science and other fields, died on April 14 at a hospice in San Francisco. He was 95. The cause was internal blee
 Gene Frankel, a pioneering Off Broadway director and respected acting teacher whose career extended from Broadway to the 70-seat theater on Bond Street that bears his name, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause was heart failure, said Gail Thacker, the manager of the 
 H. Richard Uviller, a provocative and influential legal educator who salted his scholarly analyses with gritty personal experiences he had collected as a prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney's office, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause
 James A. Houston, a writer and artist almost single-handedly responsible for introducing contemporary Eskimo art to an international audience, died on Sunday in New London, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Stonington, Conn. The cause was complications of a heart attack, his wife, Alice,
 BENEDICT--Coleman H. Coleman Hamilton Benedict, 93, Professor Emeritus of Columbia University, where he taught generations of undergraduates and graduate students for three decades, died of complications from pneumonia at New York University Hospital on April 20, 2005. He was the only child
 BRAENDEL--Felix W. 92, died on April 15, 2005. He was born on June 9, 1912, in Palisades Park, NJ. A graduate of Stevens Institute of Technology in 1934, he was chief mechanical engineer and then President of GroovPin Corporation (located at that time in Ridgefield Park, NJ) for most of his
 BUTTERWORTH--J. Warner II, ''Duke'', 68, April 17, 2005 of lymphoma in New York City surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of Diana Townsend-Butterworth, devoted father of James and Diana Jr. Son of the late J. Ebert and Dorothy Butterworth. Princeton '59, former naval reserve officer a
 GANDOLFI--Alberto G. Gonzalez, 88, of Princeton, NJ, died Wednesday April 20, 2005 in the University Medical Center At Princeton, Princeton, NJ. Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Mr. Gonzalez Gandolfi was employed by the United Nations as Chief of Building and Planning. During his fourteen y
 JORDAN--Greg. April 20, 2005. Beloved son of Patricia Jordan and the late Joe Jordan. Brother of Jeff Jordan. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call Sunday, April 24, 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Service Monday, April 25, 
 KRAMER--Milton S., 88, at home in Livingston, NJ on April 21, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Lenore Kramer. Father of Evan Kramer, Esq. of Livingston, NJ, Dr. Kenneth Kramer of Easton, PA and Dr. Neil Kramer of New York City. Loving brother of Julian Kramer of South Orange, NJ and Sanfor
 MEADMORE--Clement. We mourn the passing of sculptor and friend, Clement Meadmore. He had a long and distinguished career as an internationally renowned sculptor. Anita Shapolsky Gallery       
 SALZMAN--Louis. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Loving father of Nancy and father-in-law of Les. He was to the very end funny, witty and charming, with all his intelligence intact. Former Director of the New York State Department of Vocational Rehabilitation. Thoughtful and helpful frie
 SKEIST--S. Merrill. 86, died April 21, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Marian and devoted father of Barry, Loren and Lisa and loving grandfather of Marc, David, Sarah, Tal, Elan, Tova and Benjamin. He was CEO of Spellman High Voltage Electronics; past chair for North Shore Campaign UJA; m
 TREGOE--Benjamin B. Jr. Co-founder and chairman emeritus of Kepner-Tregoe, Inc., died on April 20, 2005 of complications from nonHodgkins lymphoma. He was 77. In 1958, Dr. Tregoe and Dr. Charles H. Kepner left the RAND Corporation, where they worked as systems researchers, to found KepnerTr
 ULICH--George F. Was called home to his eternal rest on April 19, 2005. He died at the Homles Regional Medical Center in Melbourne, Fl. He was born in the Bronx, NY on January 29, 1924 to Anna (nee Dehn) and Adam Ulich. He graduated from Herman Ridder Jr. High School, James Monroe High Scho
 UVILLER--H. Richard. Dean David Schizer and the faculty, students and staff of Columbia Law School mourn the death of our friend and colleague, Richard Uviller, the Arthur Levitt Professor Emeritus of Law, after a battle with cancer that began last fall. We will always remember Professor Uv
 WINANS -- Charles Francis. Died Tuesday, April 19th at NYU Medical Center at the age of 85. Born New Year's Eve, 1919, of Irish and Belgian descent, ''Charley'' knew no bounds of nationality, race or creed. English teacher extraordinaire, drama coach, master of the A.P. exam, bon vivant, fe
 Cliff Montgomery, the quarterback who called and executed the hidden-ball play known as KF-79 that propelled Columbia to a 7-0 upset of Stanford in the 1934 Rose Bowl, died Thursday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, N.Y. Montgomery, who lived in Roslyn Heights, N.Y., was 94.      
 Dr. Norman D. Newell, an influential paleontologist who challenged opponents of evolutionary theory and helped shape theories explaining the mass extinctions of species, died on Monday at his home in Leonia, N.J., his family said. He was 96. In a wide-ranging career that included sc
 JACOBY--Arthur W., MD, 78, on Thursday, April 21, 2005 in Sarasota, FL, formerly of Old Tappan, NJ. Beloved husband of Barbara for 50 years and loving father of Andrew and his wife Laura, Nancy and David. Also adoring grandfather of Dale, Sarah and Rachel. He will be deeply missed by all wh
 JORDAN--Greg. April 20, 2005. Beloved son of Patricia Jordan and the late Joe Jordan. Brother of Jeff Jordan. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call Sunday, April 24, 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Service Monday, April 25, 
 MAY--Andrew Jeffrey. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home & Hospital extends its deepest sympathies to longtime trustee, Harold May, and his wife, Millicent; daughter, Clarice, and the entire family on the passing of their beloved son, Andrew. Harold has been a val
 SALZMAN--Louis. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Loving father of Nancy and father-in-law of Les. He was to the very end funny, witty and charming, with all his intelligence intact. Former Director of the New York State Department of Vocational Rehabilitation. Thoughtful and helpful frie
 SKEIST--S. Merrill. 86, died April 21, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Marian and devoted father of Barry, Loren and Lisa and loving grandfather of Marc, David, Sarah, Tal, Elan, Tova and Benjamin. He was CEO of Spellman High Voltage Electronics; past chair for North Shore Campaign UJA; m
 TAUBMAN--Joseph L., age 81, died April 21st, 2005. Devoted husband of Sylvia of Boynton Beach, FL, beloved father of Edward and Paul J., cherished father-in-law of Nancy, adored grandfather of Michele and Brendan, loved brother of Isaac and dear uncle of his many nieces and nephews. A veter
 WEINSTEIN--Harry. Brilliant, witty, loving, and much adored father of Martha W. Alpert, the sister I was meant to have. Married 69 years to his beloved Lillie, ''Boppa'' to Lori and David Stratton and Alan and Tikvah Alpert. Great-grandpa of seven. A great man who will always be remembered 
 WINANS--Charles. For a generation of students at Brooklyn Prep, he was a dazzling teacher, a wise mentor, a guide to parts unknown, and an insightful mystic. To us, he was simply and always ''Charlie'', and forever the name and the thought of him will conjure for us the noblest aspects of l
 David Hughes, an English man of letters best known for exploring the individual's role in traumatic public events in his elegantly written novels, among them ''The Pork Butcher'' (Schocken, 1985) and ''The Joke of the Century'' (Taplinger, 1986), died on April 11. He was 74 and lived in Lon
 Greg Jordan, a prominent Manhattan designer who created interiors for socialites like Blaine Trump and Elizabeth Johnson, with whom he formed close friendships, died on Wednesday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was a heart attack stemming from advanced coronary a
 BENNETT--John J., Jr. On April 22, 2005. John was a lifelong resident of Brooklyn, graduate of Xavier High School (1944), Fordham University (1950), and Columbia Law School (1953). A US Navy veteran of WWII and member of the Catholic War Veterans. He was past president of the Catholic Child
 BRENNAN--Henry Joseph. Beloved brother of Eileen Cranmer and Kenneth Brennan. Uncle of Michelle McManus and Michael George Cranmer. Also great uncle to Olivia and Jack McManus. He graduated from St. John's University with a Master's in Finance, worked for Chase Manhattan Bank as an Assistan
 BRUENNER--Frederick Herman. Died on April 19, 2005 at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was born February 27, 1920, the only child of Adolf and Marie Bruenner. After graduating Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton University in 1941, Mr. Bruenner served in the Pacific as an officer aboard U.S.S
 JACOBY--Arthur W., MD, 78, on Thursday, April 21, 2005 in Sarasota, FL, formerly of Old Tappan, NJ. Beloved husband of Barbara for 50 years and loving father of Andrew and his wife Laura, Nancy and David. Also adoring grandfather of Dale, Sarah and Rachel. He will be deeply missed by all wh
 JORDAN--Greg. April 20, 2005. Beloved son of Patricia Jordan and the late Joe Jordan. Brother of Jeff Jordan. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call Sunday, April 24, 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Service Monday, April 25, 
 KANNER--Dr. Morris, 94, died April 13th, in his home in North Miami Beach, one year after the death of his wife, Madeline. The last of the old Brooklyn GPs, he is survived by sons Drs. Steven, Joshua and Ronald Kanner, grandchildren Laura, Daniel, Seth, Tracey, Sarah, Rebecca, and Michael, 
 LEEMAN--Morton H., 78, died April 21 of pulmonary fibrosis in South Paris, Maine. He was born July 13, 1926, and raised in New York City. He was the son of Irving and Estelle Lieberman Leeman. A graduate of the prestigious Townsend Harris High School, he double majored in English and Econom
 MULLESTEIN--William E., of West Chester, PA, died April 20, 2005, at home. Husband of Dorothy W. Mullestein and the late Louise P. Mullestein, he is also survived by a sister, Doris Riddell; daughters, Mary Shuford and Linda Mullestein; and granddaughters, Rebecca and Virginia Shuford. Cont
 RADBERG--Lars. Memorial Service May 6 at Noon, Swedish Church, 5 E. 48th St., Manhattan. He died April 9 at 87 in Denver, CO. with his wife, Marit, and sons, John and Nils by his side. Formerly of Greenwich, CT., he had a 30-year career with Svenska Handelsbanken in New York.       
 ROBERTSON--James Oliver. Beloved husband of Janet Cohen, loving father and grandfather, died at home in Hampton, CT, April 21, age 72 after a long battle with leukemia. Historian, poet, painter and author. Born in Fargo, North Dakota. A.B., A.M., Ph.D, Harvard. UConn history Professor until
 ROBINSON--Arthur Paul, 64, on April 13, from cancer. Born in New York City January 30, 1941. Graduated Wagner College. M.A. (NYU). M.S. (Rutgers). Taught at Wagner six years, then moved to California. In 1967, he married Carole White. They went to the U.K., where he was a Publican in Bristo
 SHAPIRO--Buddy (Benjamin) of Boca Raton, Florida and New York, passed away April 15, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Helen Goren Shapiro and Ruth Baumol, loving father and father-in-law of Judith Shapiro Barr and Franklin Barr, Lauren Shapiro Raker-Golden & Thomas Golden, former fatherin-
 SKEIST--S. Merrill. 86, died April 21, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Marian and devoted father of Barry, Loren and Lisa and loving grandfather of Marc, David, Sarah, Tal, Elan, Tova and Benjamin. He was CEO of Spellman High Voltage Electronics; past chair for North Shore Campaign UJA; m
 SMITH -- Edward. Passed away on April 12, 2005. He leaves his wife Gloria; son David and wife Denise; daughter Erica and husband Eric; grandchildren Matt, Jaime, Danielle, Allison and Kirstie; brother Issar and wife Christine; and the Rollet/ Smith family. We will always remember your vibra
 STIMPSON--Harry Farnum. Of Plymouth, Minnesota. Leaves behind a large family including his wife, Martha B. Stimpson, who was by his side when he died at home on April 17, 2005 at age 91. David Lee Funeral Home, Wayzata, MN. Call 952-473-5577.       
 TAUBMAN--Joseph L., age 81, died April 21st, 2005. Devoted husband of Sylvia of Boynton Beach, FL, beloved father of Edward and Paul J., cherished father-in-law of Nancy, adored grandfather of Michele and Brendan, loved brother of Isaac and dear uncle of his many nieces and nephews. A veter
 TOONI--S. Neal. Of Plymouth and Newton, MA; originally from Montclair, NJ, on April 4, 2005, at Massachusetts General Hospital, after a long and courageous battle with esophageal cancer. Adored husband of Mettie Whipple, and beloved stepfather to Arthur Schiro and Stephanie Schiro. He is al
 WEINSTEIN--Harry. Brilliant, witty, loving, and much adored father of Martha W. Alpert, the sister I was meant to have. Married 69 years to his beloved Lillie, ''Boppa'' to Lori and David Stratton and Alan and Tikvah Alpert. Great-grandpa of seven. A great man who will always be remembered 
 WINANS--Charles. For a generation of students at Brooklyn Prep, he was a dazzling teacher, a wise mentor, a guide to parts unknown, and an insightful mystic. To us, he was simply and always ''Charlie'', and forever the name and the thought of him will conjure for us the noblest aspects of l
 Robert R. Granville, an F.B.I. agent in New York who headed the team that arrested Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, died on April 12 at a hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 89 and lived in Crystal River. He had had a stroke two weeks earlier, said his son, Col. Robert R. Granville Jr., M.D. 
 Sir John Mills, the celebrated British actor who portrayed war heroes, Dickensian upstarts and an extraordinary pantheon of English characters in a film, stage and television career that spanned much of the 20th century, died yesterday at his home in Denham, west of London. He was 97.      
 Ezer Weizman, the swashbuckling and acerbic former president of Israel, who built the country's air force and guided it in the startlingly swift victory over the Arab forces in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, died last night, the government said. He was 80 and suffered recently from pneumonia.  
 John Hultberg, an American abstract painter and printmaker who came to the fore with the avant-garde after World War II, died on April 15 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was complications of a stroke, according to Christopher
 ASH--Donald, DDS. 79, on Friday, April 22, 2005. Beloved husband of Elaine for 51 years, loving father of Melissa (Alan), Russell (Margie), also adoring grandfather of Rachel, Sarah and Emily. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him.       
 BENNETT--John J. Jr. The Board of Trustees of the St. Giles Foundation mourns the passing of our beloved friend and fellow Trustee, John J. Bennett Jr. During his many years of faithful service we were inspired by Jack's amazing spirit and quick smile. We honor his memory by continuing the 
 CANTOR--Sheldon B. Died on Saturday, April 16, in Newton, MA. Formerly of NYC. He was Vice President of American Banknote Corp. He was the husband of Fredette Cantor and father of Barbara Rosen, Lawrence and Jay Cantor. He was loved dearly and will be missed by all who knew him.       
 HART--Orson Henry, Ph.D. April 22, 2005, in Bethel, CT. Born in Hartford, CT, February 22, 1913, he was a graduate of Trinity College and of the Yale School of Graduate Studies in Economics. He was the retired Executive Vice President and Director of Economic Studies for the New York Life I
 JORDAN--Greg. The employees and staff of Greg Jordan, Inc. mourn the passing of our deeply beloved and highly respected leader. Greg was one of the most talented and creative members of the nation's interior design community. Recently designated a ''Dean of Design'' by Architectural Digest,
 REA--Vice Admiral William Freeland III, United States Coast Guard, passed away December 11, 2004, Coral Gables, Florida. VADM Rea had a long and wonderful career, with his last command being Commander Atlantic Area United States Coast Guard, Governors Island, New York. He is survived by his
 RICE--Sol. 90, a veteran, retired NYC fireman and accountant died Saturday, April 23 in Freehold, NJ. He was a 53 year resident of Merrick, LI, where he was a member and Past Commander of the Jewish War Veterans. He is survived by his children, Naomi Kalmus and Daniel Rice, their spouses, D
 SEIBERT--Wilson A., Jr., of Chatham, MA and Naples, FL, died April 20, 2005. Loving husband of Susan for 52 years. Beloved by his children, Dena, Sara, Susan and Andrew, and four grandchildren. Received a purple heart in WWII. Graduated with honors from Wesleyan University in CT in 1950 and
 SMITH -- Edward. Passed away on April 12, 2005. He leaves his wife Gloria; son David and wife Denise; daughter Erica and husband Eric; grandchildren Matt, Jaime, Danielle, Allison and Kirstie; brother Issar and wife Christine; and the Rollet/ Smith family. We will always remember your vibra
 Sir John Mills, the celebrated British actor who portrayed war heroes, Dickensian upstarts and an extraordinary pantheon of English characters in a film, stage and television career that spanned much of the 20th century, died on Saturday at his home in Denham, west of London. He was 97.    
 Alexander J. Trotman, who rose from a student trainee at Ford Motor to become the company's chief executive for much of the 1990's, died on Monday in Yorkshire, England. He was 71. Ford said in a statement that Mr. Trotman had died after a brief illness. From 1993 to 1998, M
 BENNETT--John J. Jr. The partners and staff of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig and Klein, LLP are deeply saddened by the loss of our very dear friend and colleague, John J. Bennett, who was counsel to our firm for nearly two decades. Jack was a kind and dignified presence in our office, always rea
 BYRNE--J. Howard, formerly of Chappaqua, NY died April 23, in Goshen, NY. He is survived by four children, James Byrne, Ann Byrne, Kathleen Lindquist and Christine Byrne Perez; five grandchildren; and one great-grandchild. Visitation Thursday 4-8 PM at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, N
 CONCANNON--Thomas J., 61, died April 23, 2005, having survived five years with multiple myeloma. His love of life lives on in his wife, Jan Mardfin (''the Enchantress''); children, Peter and Leah Concannon; sisters, Regina, Constance, and Claire; brothersin-law, Joseph, Vincent, and Frank; 
 COURTIS--James G., Sr., age 79, of Oakland, New Jersey. On April 23, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Jettie D. Courtis (1976), dear father of James G. Courtis Jr. of Lakewood, Colorado and Stefanie Beach of Florida, New York. Loving companion of Althea Terman. Dear brother of George Court
 DANSKER--Samuel. On Passover, April 23. He leaves his second wife Lenore of Boynton Beach, FL. and two sons Matthew and Paul. Funeral Wednesday, April 27 at Berschler's, 5341 Rte. 38, Pennsauken, NJ at 1 P.M.       
 FARNSWORTH--Charles E., Age 83, formerly of Englewood, NJ, died April 23, 2005 at Kendal at Oberlin in Oberlin, OH. He was a certified public accountant with the accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand, New York City retiring as a partner in 1983. Survived by wife Kathryn E.; daughter Ann E. o
 FIELD--Fiske. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its Officers and Employees, mourn the passing of our former Senior Field Vice President and respected colleague, Fiske Field. For over fifteen years, Fiske provided Mutual of America and its clients with faithful 
 FINK--Dr. Austin I., on Sunday April 24, 2005. Prominent physician and internationally recognized ophthalmologist; Professor at SUNY Downstate 1955-1990, chief of Ophthalmology at Long Island College Hospital 1958-1990. Survived by his loving wife, Selma; children Jean (husband Don), Anne (
 KELMAN--Captain Peter B. The employees of Hugo Neu Corporation are deeply saddened by the loss of Captain Peter B. Kelman, a business associate of the Company for nearly 40 years, who for the past 19 years was also the father-in-law of Hugo Neu's CEO, John L. Neu. Peter headed his own firm 
 McDOUGALD--Robert E., 75, of Port Washington, NY, died April 23, 2005. A graduate of Duke University and a Korean War Veteran. He is survived by his beloved wife of 50 years & three children.       
 MOREAU--Lawrence J., after many valiant battles we have lost our hero. Predeceased by his mother Evelyn and father Lawrence. Survived by his adoring wife Maureen, his mother-in-law Helen Derwin, brother and sister-in-law Frank and Barbara Derwin. Proud uncle of Joanne Derwin, Jamie Bermudez
 OKINAKA -- Arthur Junichi. Died on April 21, 2005. He was the widower of Gladys J. Okinaka and is survived by his two daughters Alison Joan Okinaka and Leslie Okinaka Juan. He was brother to Richard Okinaka and grandfather of three, Corey Arthur Juan, Alexander Mills Juan and Avery Katherin
 RUBIN--Stanley of Scarsdale, NY and Palm Springs, CA. Died March 8, 2005 at age 92. Born September 6, 1912 in Manhattan to Max and Celia (Raphael) Rubin. He was a Textile Broker for Berkshire Hathaway in New York City. Survived by daughters Patricia Watson (Robert) and Ronnie Rubin, grandda
 SOLOMON--Dr. Edward L., passed away on April 20. Served the army in World War II. Practiced dentistry for 44 years in Bayside, Queens. Beloved by patients, family and friends. He is survived by his wife Marilyn, sons Norman and Daniel, grandsons Harris & Reuben, and a brother Robert.       
 WAHRBURG--Henry, 91, of Jackson, NJ, on April 23, 2005. Loving husband of his late wife of 56 years, Hildegard. He is survived by his beloved daughter Alice K. WahrburgJoseph of Jackson, NJ and his son Ernest of Richlands, NC.       
 WEISFOGEL--Jaret Wayne, Ph.D., 38, died on April 25, 2005. Beloved son of Drs. Jerry & Matonah Weisfogel, older brother of Amiel, and brother-in-law of Rebecca. A distinguished scholar of East Asian studies, he received the prestigious Heyman Center Postdoctoral Fellowship in Confucian Stud
 WHITE--John F. (Jack), 87, died April 22 at home in Virginia Beach, VA. In NYC, Jack became President Emeritus of The Cooper Union after 11 years as President. Formerly, he was President of National Educational Television and Radio (now PBS and NPR) and served as special assistant at ASPEN 
 KELMAN--Capt. Peter B., 75. On April 19, 2005, at his home with family, from ALS. Memorial service Friday, May 6th, 5PM at the Seamen's Church Institute of N.Y./N.J., 118 Export St, Port Newark, N.J. 973-589-5828. Memorial donations may be made to Matheny School and Hospital for development
 Dr. Philip Morrison, who helped assemble the first atomic bomb with his own hands, and then campaigned for the rest of his life against weapons that could deliver such devastation, died Friday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89. He died in his sleep, his family said. 
 Thomas J. Concannon, who abandoned a career in banking after a long bus ride across South Asia, then spent the next three decades wielding legendary charm and formidable negotiating skills as a lawyer for thousands of poor people in New York, died on Saturday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering
 Earl Wilson, a leading pitcher for the Boston Red Sox and the 1968 World Series champion Detroit Tigers, and one of the top home run hitters among major league pitchers, died Saturday at his home in Southfield, Mich. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, said Jim Martin, the exec
 Sir Eduardo Paolozzi, a father of British Pop Art and a leading sculptor of the postwar era, died in a London hospital on Friday. He was 81. Sir Eduardo's death followed a period of decline that began when he suffered a stroke four years ago, said Emily Bishop, director of the New Y
 John F. White, president emeritus of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art and an architect of public broadcasting in the United States, died on Friday at his home in Virginia Beach. He was 87. A former resident of Tuxedo Park, N.Y., he also had a home in Sarasota, Fla.   
 BENNETT--John J. Jr. The partners and staff of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig and Klein, LLP are deeply saddened by the loss of our very dear friend and colleague, John J. Bennett, who was counsel to our firm for nearly two decades. Jack was a kind and dignified presence in our office, always rea
 CZUKOR--John C. Died on April 15, 2005 at the age of 88. He was predeceased by his beloved wife, Alice (nee Timar), by his parents Laszlo and Ilona (nee Lichtenstein) and by his sister Agnes Theresa. He is survived by his son, Lester. A memorial service will be held Sunday, May 1, 2005 at t
 EISEN--Isidor. On April 25, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Dina. Devoted father of Murray and father-in-law of Caryl. Cherished grandfather of Felicia Weitz, Debbi Landau and Richard Eisen. Adoring great-grandfather of Justin, Lauren, David, Remi, James, Dylan and Charli. We treasure and
 GOTTESMAN--Milton M. On April 26, 2005, age 82, in Wash., DC, loving son of the late Esther and Benjamin Gottesman, beloved brother of David S. and the late Alice Gottesman Bayer, dearest brother-in-law of Ruth L. Gottesman, cherished uncle of Robert and Trudy Gottesman, Alice Gottesman and
 JETTMAR--Emil F., 85, of Sherman, CT, died April 21, 2005. Son of Frantiska and Bedrich. Survived by wife, Eleanore; children, Charles & Barbara; sisters-in-law, Mary and Barbara, and the late Bedrich Jettmar II. He served as a B-25 pilot in 487th Bombardment Squadron of 12th US Army Air Fo
 JOHNSON -- Walter Curtis. The Arthur LeGrand Doty Professor of Electrical Engineering, Emeritus at Princeton University, died Friday, April 22. He was the son of David C. Johnson and Mary Ely Johnson, of Weikert PA, and husband of Caroline Shirk Johnson, who predeceased him. Professor Johns
 KRUSKAL--William H., 85, of Chicago. Died on April 21, 2005. Ernest DeWitt Burton Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus in Statistics at the University of Chicago. His survivors include sons Vincent, Tom, and Jody; grandchildren Lily, Peter, Michael, Eliott, and Zachary; siblings Rosaly,
 MOREAU--Lawrence J., after many valiant battles we have lost our hero. Predeceased by his mother Evelyn and father Lawrence. Survived by his adoring wife Maureen, his mother-in-law Helen Derwin, brother and sister-in-law Frank and Barbara Derwin. Proud uncle of Joanne Derwin, Jamie Bermudez
 WEISFOGEL--Jaret. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member Jaret Weisfogel. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres.       
 Johnny Sample, the former Jets defensive back who carved a place in National Football League lore by participating in three of the most storied games of the 1950's and 1960's, died Monday. He was 67. Sample, who became a radio talk-show host in his native Philadelphia after he retir
 Mason Adams, a ubiquitous character actor in radio, television, movies and the theater whose crotchety but reassuring tone of voice was as famous as his face, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 86. He died of natural causes, his daughter Betsy sa
 ADAMS--Mason, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Margot. Proud father of Betsy, and her late husband, Dave McKennan. Proud and loving father of Bill and his wife, Alix Pearlstein. Admired actor, best friend of many. Brave, funny and loyal, he charmed all who knew him and will be deepl
 EISEN--Isidor. On April 25, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Dina. Devoted father of Murray. Loved father-in-law of the late Roberta. Loved father-in-law of Caryl. Cherished grandfather of Felicia and Perry Weitz; Debbi and Peter Landau; and Richard and Jara Eisen. Adoring great-grandfathe
 EMGE--Dr. Walter, professor of philosophy, former provost of Manhattan College, died April 25, 2005. Dr. Emge's passing is a great loss to the entire College. He was a distinguished educator and leader who served as provost from 1985 to 1996. He will be greatly missed. Br. Thomas Scanlan, P
 FARLEY -- Edward Ray mond, Jr., on April 25, 2005 at his residence in Princeton, NJ. CEO of Atlas Corporation, Princeton, NJ. Father of the late Thomas Joyce Farley, beloved husband of 57 years to Irene Daly Farley, cherished father of Nancy Farley Jarrell, Jane Farley von Oehsen and her hu
 FELDMAN--Harold. Beloved husband of Razel (nee Gibber). Adored father of Larry, Michael, Robert and Mark. Loving father - in - law of Roberta, Lisa, Suzann and Marjorie. Cherished Grandpa of Sari, Charlie, Annie, Seth, Ian, Mallory and Brandon. Brother of Ralph of West Hartford, CT. and Ida
 GERSTEN--Barry. On April 26th. Beloved husband of Carole. Loving father of Debbie Hartstein and Jeffrey Gerstein. Fond father-in-law of Eric and Katya. Cherished grandfather of Sari. Also survived by his brother David, his sister Janice and the late Deanne. Family will receive friends on Th
 GOTTESMAN--Milton M. On April 26, 2005, age 82, in Wash., DC, loving son of the late Esther and Benjamin Gottesman, beloved brother of David S. and the late Alice Gottesman Bayer, dearest brother-in-law of Ruth L. Gottesman, cherished uncle of Robert and Trudy Gottesman, Alice Gottesman and
 KING--Henry Brazell. Resident of Spring Lake Heights. Born April 2, 1921 in Philadelphia died April 26, 2005, after a long struggle with cancer. Husband of Patricia Poe. Father of seventeen children, thirty - eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Previously married to Ottilie R.
 KRUSKAL--William H., 85, of Chicago. Died on April 21, 2005. Ernest DeWitt Burton Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus in Statistics at the University of Chicago. His survivors include sons Vincent, Tom, and Jody; grandchildren Lily, Peter, Michael, Eliott, and Zachary; siblings Rosaly,
 LITCHFIELD -- Philip Axel. Died at the age of 89, on Thursday, April 21, 2005, in Vero Beach, Florida, after a long illness. He was born October 22, 1915, in Brooklyn, New York. He was descended from Edwin Clark Litchfield and Grace Hubbard Litchfield of Prospect Park, Brooklyn, New York. M
 SINGER--Stanley. On April 27, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Shirley. Devoted father of Cathy Ettinger (and her partner Jack Bilson) and Richard Singer (and his wife Patricia Mendell). Cherished grandfather of Robert, Jeffrey, David and Michael. Esteemed attorney at Wolf Popper LLP. Serv
 SONDHEIMER--Joseph. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Joseph Sondheimer of Glencoe, IL. A devoted supporter of the ATS, the Technion and Israel, he established the Samuel and Lillian Sondheimer Chair in International Economics and Finance
 STRIGO -- Bobby G. The Board of Governors and Membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Bobby G. Strigo, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Arlene and family, its deepest sympathy. Brian J. Strum, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secy       
 WEIZMAN--Ezer. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the death of Ezer Weizman, founder of the Israeli Air Force and former President of the State of Israel. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. June Walker, Nat'l Presi
 WHITE--John F. The Cooper Union Alumni Association mourns the death of John F. White, former President of The Cooper Union. Presiding over the college through challenging and turbulent times, he earned the respect, admiration and love of students, faculty, trustees and alumni alike for his 
 WILLIAMSON -- Samuel J. The NYU Faculty of Arts and Science mourns the loss of its esteemed colleague and friend, Sam Williamson. A physicist by training, his scholarly gifts and intellectual interests ranged widely, bringing him distinction as a scientist and much admiration from his colle
 Arnie Lawrence, a jazz saxophonist and pioneering educator who helped found the jazz program at the New School University in New York and started an innovative program to train young jazz musicians of both Jewish and Arab backgrounds in Israel, died on April 22 in Jerusalem. He was 66 and l
 J.B. Stoner, an unapologetic racist whose conviction for bombing a church, divisive political campaigns and vituperations about Jews and blacks made him a benchmark for racial extremism in the United States, died on Saturday at a nursing home in La Fayette, Ga. He was 81. The cause 
 ADAMS--Mason. Born Mason Abrams in Brooklyn. Decided to be an actor at age twelve and was successful on radio, television, stage and the film. He is survived by his wife Margot Weinberg and their children Betsy and Bill. His brother Herbert Abrams, a professor of radiology at Stanford Unive
 CONNICK--Louis, 83, on April 28, 2005 in Old Lyme, CT. Survived by his brother Peter Connick and many nieces and nephews in the Brooks, Connick and Keogh families. Predeceased by his wife Catherine M. He graduated from the Hotchkiss School and Yale University and attended Cambridge Universi
 GERSTEN--Barry. On April 26th. Beloved husband of Carole. Loving father of Debbie Hartstein and Jeffrey Gerstein. Fond father-in-law of Eric and Katya. Cherished grandfather of Sari. Also survived by his brother David, his sister Janice and the late Deanne. Family will receive friends on Th
 GOTTESMAN--Milton M. The Jewish Primary Day School of the Nation's Capital mourns the passing of our dedicated benefactor Milton Gottesman, who shared our dream of a Jewish day school in DC. His early support, devotion to Judaism and our city enriched the lives of our students and other cul
 GROSSMAN--Allan R. Of Far Rockaway, NY and Deerfield Beach, FL, dedicated educator, beloved husband of Flora, loving father of Sandy and Bruce Lilker, David Grossman, and Steven and Rebecca Grossman. Proud grandfather of Devora and Moshe Walter, Dani, Sheera, Arielle, Zachary, Jacob, Gabrie
 KAUFMAN -- Milton. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Milton Kaufman, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Miriam and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President       
 KENNEDY -- Richard Til ghman Paca, recently retired producer of on-air production with Channel 13/WNET New York, died suddenly April 16 at his home on East 81st., Manhattan, on his 69th birthday. Mr. Kennedy was with Channel 13 for many years, most recently the creator of Cabaret Thirteen, 
 LEVEY--Philip on April 27, 2005 at age 103. A graduate of Columbia University and Fordham Law School, he practiced law in NYC until age 101. Beloved husband of the late Pauline. Devoted father of Madeleine Fortunoff and father-in-law of Dr. Stephen Fortunoff. Cherished grandfather of Dr. Ja
 LUSTBADER--Edward E., 86, of Palm Beach, FL and Greenwich, CT on April 28th. Born July 2, 1918 Brooklyn, NY. Civil Engineer graduate RPI, owner/president of PJ Carlin Construction Co., New Rochelle, NY, built Shea Stadium, Port Authority Bus Terminal, Hunter College, Huntington Hilton Hotel
 RUBINFIEN--David, 83, died in the presence of his loving family, April 26, 2005, in Palo Alto, CA. Formerly President and CEO of Syva Company, Microgenics and Systemix. He is survived by his wife, Shulamith, his sister, Leona Billings, his children, Leo, Elisabeth and Louisa and his seven g
 SINGER--Stanley. The partners, associates and staff of Wolf Popper LLP mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Stanley Singer. Stanley Singer was a partner of Wolf Popper LLP for more than 30 years until recently becoming of counsel. Mr. Singer, a corporate lawyer, had a uni
 WHIPPLE--George Amiel II, 75, of NYC. Died April 16, 2005 at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis from complications of a stroke. He attended Andover and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1949, he married the former Hope Auchincloss and they later divorced. He was a specialist on the New Yo
 WYCKOFF -- Dr. DeWitte Campbell. The Wyckoff House & Association mourns the passing of Cam, Thomas W. Synott Prof. at Princeton Theological Seminary from 1954-83 and a great friend and pillar of the Association. Cam attended the first meeting in 1937 and served as Vice President and Editor.
 Percy Heath, whose forceful and buoyant bass playing anchored the Modern Jazz Quartet for its entire four-decade existence, died yesterday in Southampton, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Montauk, on Long Island. The cause of death was bone cancer, his family said. Mr. Heath reco
 David T. Bazelon, a writer, social critic and teacher of political science, died on Monday in Madison, Wis. A former resident of Buffalo and Manhattan, he was 82 and had lived at a retirement residence in Madison since 1998. His son, Coleman D. Bazelon of Glenelg, Md., announced the
 Hasil Adkins, a rockabilly singer who became a cult figure among record collectors and musicians for his raw, idiosyncratic music and outsize personality, was found dead on Tuesday at his home near Madison, W.Va. He was 68. The cause was unknown, said Sheriff Rodney Miller of Boone 
 Jimmy Woode, a bassist who spent five years with Duke Ellington but was best known as one of the leading figures on the European jazz scene, died on Saturday at his home in Lindenwold, N.J. He was 78. He died of postoperative complications after surgery for a stomach aneurism, his d
 Miguel O. Martinez, who was a member of the New York City Board of Education for eight years, died on April 17 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 67 The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Mary Alice. Mr. Martinez was appointed to the Board of Education by Mayor Edward I. Ko
 HOCHSCHWENDER-Herman Karl, 85, passed away Thursday, April 28, 2005, in Naples, FL. He was born in Heidelberg, Germany, on March 1, 1920, and came to the U.S.A. in 1930, moving to Akron, Ohio in 1944 where he lived most of his life. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Yale Universit
 KLASS--Seymour S., on April 29 in Florida after a very brief illness. A Veteran of the China-India-Burma Corps. A devoted father and grandfather, he is predeceased by his wife Martha and survived by his children Emily and William Kaplan, Evan and Suzy Klass and grandchildren Elliott, Nathan
 NOVECK--Rabbi Simon. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, editor of the B'nai B'rith Great Books Series and former director of Adult Jewish Education of B'nai B'rith. We extend our deep condolences to his family and to all who were touche
 OWRUTZKY--Martin, a.k.a. Marty Arret, died Wednesday, April 27. Survived by his loving family: wife Patti, son Alan, grandson Joseph. He left this world a better place. Visitation will be Sunday, May 1st 5-9 PM; services will be held May 2, Monday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street 
 SLOAN--Stephen, died April 28th, 2005 at home. Adored and adoring husband of Nannette (Nancy) Sloan, beloved father of Suzanne & Robert, treasured father-in-law to Kieran & Elizabeth, loving grandpa to Stephen Samuel Sloan II & Theodore Robert, and devoted brother-in-law to Sandra Barkin. H
 Red Horner, a Hall of Fame defenseman who was one of hockey's most rugged players of the 1930's, died Wednesday in Toronto. He was 95. His death was announced by the National Hockey League, which said he was believed to be its oldest former player. Making his debut in 1928, 
