 E.R. Haggar Sr., a son of a Lebanese immigrant who helped build a family clothing store in Texas into a national brand of slacks and shirts, died on Tuesday at his home in Dallas. He was 88. His death was announced by Haggar Clothing at its headquarters in Dallas. Mr. Haggar
 BAXTER--John Brady, 97, on Tuesday, September, 28, 2004 of Belleair, FL, formerly of Garden City, NY. Survived by his beloved wife Dorothy Hamlin Baxter of Belleair, FL; his loving children Marion R. of LaGrange Park, IL, John B. Jr. of NYC, Richard R. (Brother Jordan, S.T.) of Silver Sprin
 BECKER--Jacob R. On September 28, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Joyce Becker nee Stern. Beloved father and grandfather and respected attorney. Survived by daughters Robin, Patrice and Debra. Sons-in-law David and Jonathan. Grandchildren Alyssa, Brandon, Joshua, Benjamin and Rebecca. Int
 BEENE--Geoffrey. PhillipsVan Heusen Corporation, its directors, officers and associates mourn the passing of Geoffrey Beene, a true creative genius and bold and original designer. We are proud to have been associated with Mr. Beene for over two decades and will miss his counsel and integrit
 GINDICK--Robert A., 51, died Wednesday, September 29, after a long battle with HIVrelated illness. He is survived by his beloved partner, James Anderson of NY, NY. Mr. Gindick was founder and president of Gindick Productions Ltd., a film production company and wholly owned subsidiary of Gre
 GOLDMAN--Robert. On September 27, 2004. He was 87. Beloved husband of 65 years of Irene, loving father of Ellen and David, devoted grandfather of Travis, Tristan and Cirdan, adoring great grandfather of Prydwyn and Aiavel, cherished uncle of Leonard and Richard Levin. Services on Sunday, Oc
 KAUFMAN--Justus, M.D. On September 29, beloved husband of the late Diane Kaufman and loving father of Billy Kaufman of New York and Bonnie Heneson of Baltimore, and father-in-law of Howard Heneson. Devoted grandfather of Rabbis Susan and Steven Moskowitz and Sandee and Keith Walker, and muc
 KOOPER--Al. One of the first organizers of ''WAGRO''-Warsaw Ghetto Resistance Oraganization, died at the age of 102. During all these years, he was dedicated to the memory of our tragic past and Jewish resistance. Funeral will take place at Schwartz Bros., 114-03 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hi
 MUNI--Scott. On September 28, 2004. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father of Melissa, Tiffany, Mason, Shane and Jennifer. Dear brother of Harriet Pitman. Cherished grandfather of Gillian. Reposing Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. (81 St) Saturday and Sunday 2-5 & 7-9
 ALLEN -- George. (AKA George Axiltree). Passed away September 21, 2004. One of New York's premier singing teachers. Worked at HB Studio and his own private practice. Member of Actors' Equity and the Dramatists Guild. Popular teacher/ writer and lover of museums, Broadway shows, nature and l
 Rudolf Gerold Wunderlich, a leading expert and dealer in American art for a half century, much of that time as president of the Kennedy Galleries in Manhattan, died on Sept. 22 in Fountain Valley, Calif. He was 83 and had retired to Laguna Woods, Calif. The cause was complications o
 AVEDON -- Richard. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Richard Avedon. A beloved artist in our Permanent Collection, Richard was a unique figure in American photography and his importance is inestimable. We extend our 
 BARTNOFF--Shepard. Of Englewood, NJ, on September 29, 2004 at the Jewish Home in Rockleigh, NJ. Dr. Bartnoff earned his doctorate in Physics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was president of Jersey Central Power and Light Company in Morristown, NJ. Dr. Bartnoff served on numer
 BAXTER--John Brady, 97, on Tuesday, September, 28, 2004 of Belleair, FL, formerly of Garden City, NY. Survived by his beloved wife Dorothy Hamlin Baxter of Belleair, FL; his loving children Marion R. of LaGrange Park, IL, John B. Jr. of NYC, Richard R. (Brother Jordan, S.T.) of Silver Sprin
 BECKER--Jacob R. On September 28, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Joyce Becker nee Stern. Beloved father and grandfather and respected attorney. Survived by daughters Robin, Patrice and Debra. Sons-in-law David and Jonathan. Grandchildren Alyssa, Brandon, Joshua, Benjamin and Rebecca. Int
 DENKER -- Mortimer. Sep tember 28, 2004, age 90 years. Beloved husband of Evelyn for 64 years, loving father of Zev (Carole), Bruce (Karen), Stephen (Ruth). Adoring grandfather of Jacqueline, Michael, Adam, Heather, Jason, Samuel, Benjamin, Max. Morty will always be remembered for his kindn
 EDELMAN -- Edward. Of Scarsdale, NY, passed away September 30, 2004. Beloved husband of Unni. Proud father and grandfather. Dear brother. Funeral service Sunday, October 3, 2004, 1 PM, from Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, New York. EDELMAN -- Edward. The C
 GOLDBERG--Steven, left us too soon, at the age of 35. Steve died early on September 29, 2004 from injuries due to an automobile accident. Devoted husband of Daphna. Loving, exceptional father of 5-year-old Lily, Jacob and Adam. Cherished son of Carol and Al. Dear brother of David and Michae
 KARGER--Arthur, 90, on Thursday, September 30. Beloved husband of the late Helen Bock. Loving father of Jeffrey and father-in-law of Devra. Brother-in-law of Jean Bock, Elizabeth and Norman Bock. Uncle of Patti Bock, John Bock and Joan Freeman. At the time of death, he was of counsel to Gal
 SILVER--Edward. The partners, counsel, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of our esteemed senior partner and former chairman Edward Silver. Having joined Proskauer as a young associate in 1948, after graduating from Cornell Law School, where he was the
 Richard Avedon, whose fashion and portrait photographs helped define America's image of style, beauty and culture for the last half-century, died yesterday in a hospital in San Antonio. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of a cerebral hemorrhage suffered l
 Edward Silver, a prominent labor lawyer who was the first chairman of New York City's Civilian Complaint Review Board, which monitors police conduct, died on Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 83. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Silver repres
 AVEDON -- Richard. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Richard Avedon. A beloved artist in our Permanent Collection, Richard was a unique figure in American photography and his importance is inestimable. We extend our 
 BECKER--Jacob R. On September 28, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Joyce Becker nee Stern. Beloved father and grandfather and respected attorney. Survived by daughters Robin, Patrice and Debra. Sons-in-law David and Jonathan. Grandchildren Alyssa, Brandon, Joshua, Benjamin and Rebecca. Int
 DENKER -- Mortimer. Sep tember 28, 2004, age 90 years. Beloved husband of Evelyn for 64 years, loving father of Zev (Carole), Bruce (Karen), Stephen (Ruth). Cherished brother of Marjorie Bresler. Adoring grandfather of Jacqueline, Michael, Adam, Heather, Jason, Samuel, Benjamin, Max. Morty 
 GEFFEN--Steven B. The Boards of the Friends of the North Castle Public Library, Inc. and the Armonk Outdoor Art Show mourn the untimely passing of our President and Friend, Steven B. Geffen. Steve worked tirelessly as Chairman of the Art Show and President of the Friends for many years. Und
 GINDICK--Robert A., 51, died Wednesday, September 29, after a long battle with HIVrelated illness. He is survived by his beloved partner, James Anderson of NY, NY. Mr. Gindick was founder and president of Gindick Productions Ltd., a film production company and wholly owned subsidiary of Gre
 GREENE--Sol. 84 years old, died on October 1, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Devoted father of Stuart and Jeffrey. Cherished grandfather of Jordan, Victoria, Jennifer and Dustin. A mensch to all who knew him. Graveside services 11 am, Monday, at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, N
 KARGER--Arthur, 90, on Thursday, September 30. Beloved husband of the late Helen Bock. Brother of the late Abraham Karger. Loving father of Jeffrey and fatherin-law of Devra. Brother-inlaw of Jean Bock, Elizabeth and Norman Bock. Uncle of Patti Bock, John Bock, Joan Freeman and Helene Hagen
 KLINGER--Dr. Harold P. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of our distinguished colleague and friend. A member of our faculty since 1963, he will be remembered as a dedicated educator, a mentor to countless students, and a renow
 MEYERS--Donald. Age 75, at home after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sue; devoted father of Rose, Bernice and Audrey, and his sons-inlaw, Alan, John and Scott; loving grandfather of Jordan, Amy, Mikhel, Jenna and Mara; cherished brother of Bernard and Philip, and brotherin-law of Bernic
 MUEHLHAUSE--Carl O. Born September 17, 1918, died September 29, 2004 in Durham, NC peacefully at home. Survived by his loving wife Carolyn and family. Honored scientist. Served honorably in Navy in WWII, Eagle Scout.       
 RUTTENBERG--Derald H. We grieve for our father. He regularly jumped over the moon for us. He lives in our loving memories. John, Eric, Kathy and Hattie Ruttenberg       
 SCHWARTZ--Ivan H. CEO and founder of Omni Offices Inc., age 84, on September 28, 2004 following a valiant struggle from kidney failure due to complications from diabetes. Beloved husband of Fritzi Mark Schwartz. Loving father of Howard and his wife Jan Shaw, and Barbara and her husband Furm
 SILVER--Edward. The partners, counsel, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of our esteemed senior partner and former chairman Edward Silver. Having joined Proskauer as a young associate in 1948, after graduating from Cornell Law School, where he was the
 SILVERSTONE -- Horace (Ace). On September 26, 2004 at the age of 94. Born in New York City on April 23, 1910. Cherished and deeply appreciated by his daughters, Joan Greenfield and Carol Silverstone, son, Richard Silverstone, grandchildren, Lisabeth Hall, M.D., Adam and David Heckendorn, Ga
 SLOATE--John A., 52, Sherman Oaks, Ca. Beloved son of Barbara Jakubec, NYC; wife Jackie, dear brother of Gretchen Sloate Garrett, uncle of Ian and Timothy Garrett, Van Nuys, Ca; passed away July 31, 2004 of scleroderma. He was the President of Musikuser, music licensing, a graduate of Curry
 STEIN--Richard C., Esq. 81, on Friday, October 1, 2004. Survived by his adoring family, his precious wife of 59 years, his Edith, his children Gary, Geri, Melinda and Tom and his wonderful grandchildren to whom he was entirely devoted, Leslie, Michael, Taylor, Hayley and Ryder and his lovin
 Jacques Levy, an educator, a theater director and a lyricist whose Broadway credits include the musical ''Oh! Calcutta,'' died Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in SoHo. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Levy had long been acti
 Joseph Brouillard, founder of a corporate communications agency bearing his name, died on Sept. 24 at his home in Montpelier, Vt. He was 79. The cause was a stroke, said William C. Lyddan Jr., president and chief executive of Brouillard Communications, now part of the WPP Group.    
 BERLOW--Richard J. Adored husband of Joyce, cherished father to Jody and Nancy, doting grandfather and greatgrandfather, loving and admired uncle to an extended family of nieces and nephews, died at age 85, on October 2, 2004, after an extended hospitalization. His generosity of spirit and 
 EDISON--Robert. Dear brother of Suzanne Fields and brother-in-law of Stephen Fields, a much loved uncle who truly appreciated the sweet caring of his nieces and nephews during his time of need. Bob's legacy to us is that of goodness, integrity, wit and thoughtfulness. A writer (Playbill), a
 GEFFEN--Steven B. 65, of Armonk, NY. Died October 2, 2004. Beloved husband and best friend of Susan, devoted son of Etta, loving father of David (Charlene) Geffen, Deborah (Gordon) Posner, Drew (Catherine) Marcus and Larry (Corinne) Marcus, and adoring grandfather of Alex, Caroline, Cayley,
 HOLZ--Nathan (Krumholz). 89, born August 10, 1915, in Vienna, Austria, passed away October 3, 2004, following a lengthy illness. Devoted husband of Sofie (Weinsaft). Loving father of Robert (Patricia), and Rose Senft. Loving grandfather of Jared (Sara), Rachel Johnson (Bradley), Chandra Gup
 ROSENTHAL -- Jeffrey. Of Tampa, FL, on October 1, 2004. Devoted and adored father of David. Son of the late Arthur and Selma. Loving brother of Stacey. His life was as big as the loss we all share.       
 SILVER--Edward. Leading labor attorney and former Chairman of Proskauer Rose, whose commitment to the firm helped to fuel its growth and worldwide reputation, died on October 1, at his home in Greenwich, CT. The cause was cancer. Born in New York City's Hell's Kitchen, Edward graduated with
 THOMPSON--Bresci. Age 96, died at home on Saturday, October 2. Husband of the late Mary Fox Thompson, beloved father of Nancy Cooper, son-in-law Arthur, grandsons Michael and Edward, great-granddaughter Sophie, and sisters Senda and Elaine. He was a painter, story teller, and lifelong Chels
 Dr. Philip H. Sechzer, a New York anesthesiologist who studied pain and was one of the developers of a system that allows patients to medicate themselves for relief, died on Sept. 26 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90. Dr. Sechzer died after a variety of medical p
 Gordon Cooper, the astronaut who flew the last of the pioneering Mercury space missions and stayed aloft in a Gemini capsule long enough to demonstrate that a trip to the moon was feasible, died Monday at his home in Ventura, Calif., NASA said. He was 77. He died of natural causes, 
 BARKER--James P. One of New York's most colorful, popular and sometimes controversial sons, died on October 3rd, 2004. He was the President of J.B. Marketing Inc., a national marketing and sale promotion manufacturer, and former Democratic leader in Queens. Jim was born in Woodside, Queens.
 BERG--David. He was a Tzaddik who survived so much and overcame great obstacles to come to this country. He dedicated his life to his wonderful wife, Elka, and his children, Alan and Barbara, Sheila and David, Hesh and Naomi, Barry and Deborah, 13 grandchildren and two great grandchildren. 
 DALLAS -- Konstantinos ''Gus'', on September 22, 2004, beloved husband of Frances A. Dallas, his wife of 44 years. After graduating from Case Western Reserve University in Ohio, Gus embarked on an illustrious career in journalism: Reporter for The Cleveland Plain Dealer and The New York Wor
 EDISON--Robert. Dear brother of Suzanne Fields and brother-in-law of Stephen Fields, a much loved uncle who truly appreciated the sweet caring of his nieces and nephews during his time of need. Bob's legacy to us is that of goodness, integrity, wit and thoughtfulness. A writer (Playbill), a
 JACOBSON--Leon, formerly of Larchmont, NY and originally from Baltimore, MD, died Monday in Los Angeles. Survived by his wife Mildred, two sons and five grandchildren.       
 MEYERS--Donald. The Board of Directors and staff of Care for the Homeless mourn the loss of our esteemed Board Member Emeritus, Donald Meyers. Donald held faculty appointments in graduate health care administration programs of several universities in New York. We knew Donald best as one who
 SALES--Rabbi Jay David. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, a gifted Jewish educator at the Solomon Schechter School in Pittsburgh. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 SIEGEL--Cantor Ben. We mourn the loss of our esteemed Cantor Emeritus and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr., Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 SILBERMAN--Rabbi Herbert. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who served as rabbi of Beth El Congregation in Phoenix before retirement. We extend our deepest condolences to his family, expecially our colleague, Rabbi Steven Silberman and 
 SILVER--Edward. Leading labor attorney and former Chairman of Proskauer Rose, whose commitment to the firm helped to fuel its growth and worldwide reputation, died on October 1, at his home in Greenwich, CT. The cause was cancer. Born in New York City's Hell's Kitchen, Edward graduated with
 SOURY--Jason. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed young member. We extend deepest sympathy to his parents Kathy and Aaron and his brother Michael and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Deborah Sc
 BARKER--James P. One of New York's most colorful, popular and sometimes controversial sons, died on October 3rd, 2004. He was the President of J.B. Marketing Inc., a national marketing and sale promotion manufacturer, and former Democratic leader in Queens. Jim was born in Woodside, Queens.
 BOWER--John J. December 3, 1925 to October 3, 2004. Of Lighthouse Point, FL, longtime resident of Upper Brookville, NY; WWII 82nd Airborne hero and Silver Star recipient; founder of internationally known Bower & Gardner, mentor to a generation of litigators and highly respected counsel to m
 CANNER--Daniel Leon, 53, of New York City, formerly of Teaneck, NJ, on September 13, 2004. Beloved husband of Adrianne Kamsler, loving father of Jonah, Zoe, and Benno, devoted son to Frida and Isidor Canner, caring brother to Judith Moss. A cofounder of Tangent Graphics, Inc., Danny was an 
 CANTOR--Aaron M. On October 4, 2004. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Richard and his wife Andrea and Nancy and her husband Steve. Devoted grandfather of Andrew, Eliza, Maddy and Archie. Loving brother of Ruth Bernstein. Devoted uncle of Alice, George and Daniel. An exceptional
 COLBY--Robert A., 84, on October 3, 2004. Beloved husband of Vineta for 57 years. B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. in 19th Century English Literature, University of Chicago. M.S.L.S. Columbia University. Professor, Library Science, at Queens College for 20 years. Author of numerous books and articles.
 GOLDMAN--Rabbi Alex. The Board of Governors and Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Charles Roden, President       
 GREENSTEIN--Samuel. Retired Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York. Beloved father of Betty and George Farkas, and Gerald and Robin Greenstein. Beloved Pappa of Michael, Randi, Jason and Bari, and great grandfather of Isabella. Elected in 1980, he personified the essence of h
 GREHER--Harold, of Riverdale, NY, died Monday at home after a long illness. He was at the end of his 89th year. Beloved husband of Darcy for 58 years. Father of Stephanie Biddle, Leslie Greher Zimmerman and Al Zimmerman. Grandfather of Alexandra Biddle Mouw, Adam Mouw, AGW (Jack) Biddle III
 HELLER--Ronald G. Ronald G. Heller, a vice president of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited and the firm's corporate secretary and corporate governance officer, died September 28 in Brooklyn, NY. He was 58 years old and lived in Fair Lawn, NJ. Ronald G. Heller was born May 29, 1946, in New York.
 MOCCIA--Alfred J. Passed away on September 30th, 2004 at his home in Rancho Mirage, CA surrounded by his family. He was born to John and Catharine Moccia on December 2, 1917 in Wilmington, DE and married Evelyn Hedelt on June 25th, 1941 in Philadelphia, PA. Beloved and devoted husband, fath
 SCHWARTZ--Ralph, MD. The Board of Trustees, Department of Pediatrics and the entire staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express deep sorrow over the death of Ralph Schwartz, MD, a distinguished member of our staff for over 26 years, who was greatly admired by his patients and colleagues. The Lenox
 SHAPIRO--Harris Lee. Dearly loved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, cousin and friend. Died October 5th after a long illness. Born in Chicago, he grew up in Brooklyn, graduating from Brooklyn Technical High School and with an engineering degree from City College of New York. Aft
 SIEGEL--Benjamin, 85, Cantor Emeritus of Temple Israel, Great Neck. Honored on numerous occasions for enriching the lives of his congregants and bringing joy through his beautiful chantings and melodies for over 40 years. As Chaplain Siegel, during WWII, he organized choirs and sang at conc
 SILVER--Edward. Leading labor attorney and former Chairman of Proskauer Rose, whose commitment to the firm helped to fuel its growth and worldwide reputation, died on October 1, at his home in Greenwich, CT. The cause was cancer. Born in New York City's Hell's Kitchen, Edward graduated with
 SNYDER--Robert J., Sr. Husband of Martha Templeton Perry, died Monday, October 4, 2004 at his home in Stonington, CT. Funeral service to be at 11 AM October 7th, at the Calvary Church, 27 Church Street, Stonington.       
 STONE -- Leonard Michael. October 3, 2004. Survived by his wife Pamela, daughter Heather and sister Ruth Gardner, all of Sarasota, FL. ''Mr. Monet, you gave so much love to all. You will not be forgotten.''       
 THOMPSON--Bresci. The entire Hudson Guild community mourns the loss of Bresci Thompson, and extends sympathy to his family. He came to Hudson Guild nearly ninety years ago, and became the embodiment of our mission and history, truly ''Mr. Hudson Guild.'' Janice McGuire, Executive Director L
 Rodney Dangerfield, the paunchy, goggle-eyed comedian whose fidgety delivery and sad-sack catch phrase ''I don't get no respect'' brought him cult status and eventually wider fame, died yesterday in a Los Angeles hospital. He was 82. The cause was complications after heart valve rep
 Maurice H.F. Wilkins, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist who contributed to the discovery of the structure of DNA by Dr. James D. Watson and Dr. Francis H.C. Crick, died yesterday in London, according to King's College London, where he worked. He was 87. The cause of death was not stat
 AVEDON--Richard. His profound creativity and humanity will long be remembered by those who thrilled to the experience of his two retrospectives at The Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1978 and 2002. Through his extraordinary donation of portrait photographs he will teach future generations of 
 FREEMAN -- Richard Ed ward, 63, of Bridgehampton and New York City. After struggling with leukemia for two years, Richard departed on October 5, 2004. He leaves wife Lois, sons Elliot and Gregory, sister Lynn Schwat and husband Martin, and brother Sheldon and wife Linda. His role as husband
 GETZ--Paul A. October 5, 2004. Beloved husband, father, and grandfather. He is survived by his wife Laura, his three children Hilary, Evan and Matthew, and his five grandchildren. He will live forever in our hearts. Funeral services will be held on Friday, October 8, at 12 PM at Schwartz Br
 GOLDMAN--Rabbi Alex J. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, noted author and rabbi emeritus of Temple Beth El in Stamford, CT. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 LOWE--Dr. John M. On October 5, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Beloved father of Diana and the late William Friedman and Judith and Harvey Rubin. Proud grandfather of Peter Friedman, his wife Beth Liebmann, Jonathan, his wife Cathy Sylvis, James, his wife Christiane Amanpour, and
 MOCCIA--Alfred J. Passed away on September 30th, 2004 at his home in Rancho Mirage, CA surrounded by his family. He was born to John and Catharine Moccia on December 2, 1917 in Wilmington, DE and married Evelyn Hedelt on June 25th, 1941 in Philadelphia, PA. Beloved and devoted husband, fath
 RIVERA--Cesar. Adored husband of Elsa, Amazing father of Cesar, Yvonne, Eddie and Alexandra. Loving grandfather to Maria, Isabel and Michelle. Beloved member of the St. Vincent de Paul and Resurrection Ascension Church, Cesar passed away on August 27, 2004 after a long battle with cancer. H
 SHAPIRO--Harris Lee. Dearly loved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, cousin and friend. Died October 5th after a long illness. Born in Chicago, he grew up in Brooklyn, graduating from Brooklyn Technical High School and with an engineering degree from City College of New York. Aft
 John A. Kelley, who ran 61 Boston Marathons, won two and became almost as celebrated as the race itself, died on Wednesday in South Yarmouth, Mass. He was 97. A stepson, David DeLong, said Kelley died in a nursing home, less than three hours after he arrived from his home in nearby 
 BARKER--James P. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of James P. Barker, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 BLACK--Ernest S. (Sandy), 83, on October 6, in Naples, Florida after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Jean Gumport. Devoted father of Sandra (Sam) Black-Pipkin and her husband Jon, of St. Louis, son Gary of Dallas and dear friend to grandson Ray of Dallas. He was predeceased by son Bruce
 COSTAGLIOLA -- Anthony. With the greatest of sadness, Greenhaven Associates deeply mourns the death of our beloved associate and friend, Tony Costagliola. Tony joined our firm 44 years ago. His skills were an inspiration to our firm and his warm and caring personality made him a constant so
 GETZ--Paul A. October 5, 2004. Beloved husband, father, and grandfather. He is survived by his wife Laura, his three children Hilary, Evan and Matthew, and his five grandchildren. He will live forever in our hearts. Funeral services will be held on Friday, October 8, at 12 PM at Schwartz Br
 HARRISON--George. Native of County Mayo, Ireland, died October 6, 2004 in Brooklyn, NY. A lifetime activist in social causes worldwide, he was an outspoken advocate for peace with justice for all peoples, particularly the people of Ireland--North and South. His passing is deeply regretted b
 JONES--Edward H. Former New York City Commissioner. In 1979, President Jimmy Carter appointed Mr. Jones to The President's Advisory Committee for Trade Negotiations. He also wrote a book ''Blacks in Business.'' He was the President of the International Commercial Resources Company. He is su
 KAUFFMAN--Bernard. Age 99, on October 4. A lifelong resident of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He presided over H. Kauffman & Sons Saddlery Co., a landmark retail institution in New Yorkestablished in 1875. Married 67 years to the late Elsie Kauffman, father of Charles and Ronald, grandfather to six a
 LAUB--Benjamin. On October 6, 2004 at age 100. As designer and manufacturer for Variety Frocks Maternity Wear for over 50 years, his company was the first to produce maternity dresses on a large scale. Beloved husband of the late Grace. Devoted father of Arlene and Madelon and father-in-law
 LEVICK--Gerard. August 13, 1929--October 5, 2004. Wonderful memories. He will be missed by us all. de Roulet family       
 SHAPIRO--Harris Lee. Dearly loved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, cousin and friend. Died October 5th after a long illness. Born in Chicago, he grew up in Brooklyn, graduating from Brooklyn Technical High School and with an engineering degree from City College of New York. Aft
 Gordon Bendersky, a pediatric cardiologist turned medical historian who studied sports injuries and medical plants in ancient Greece and fetal sculptures of the Olmec civilization, died Thursday in Abington, Pa. He was 75 and lived in Elkins Park, Pa. The cause was complications fro
 COSTAGLIOLA -- Anthony. With the greatest of sadness, Greenhaven Associates deeply mourns the death of our beloved associate and friend, Tony Costagliola. Tony joined our firm 44 years ago. His skills were an inspiration to our firm and his warm and caring personality made him a constant so
 GETZ--Paul. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Paul Getz, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Old Westbury Golf C.C. Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 KAUFFMAN--Bernard. Age 99, on October 4. A lifelong resident of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He presided over H. Kauffman & Sons Saddlery Co., a landmark retail institution in New Yorkestablished in 1875. Married 67 years to the late Elsie Kauffman, father of Charles and Ronald, grandfather to six a
 LAUB--Benjamin. On October 6, 2004 at age 100. As designer and manufacturer for Variety Frocks Maternity Wear for over 50 years, his company was the first to produce maternity dresses on a large scale. Beloved husband of the late Grace. Devoted father of Arlene and Madelon and father-in-law
 MASRI--Edmond. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Edmond Masri. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to his wife and to his entire family.       
 STIX--John. The Juilliard community mourns the loss of our esteemed and longtime colleague, John Stix. An extraordinary teacher and director, his knowledge and compassionate guidance enriched the art and lives of hundreds of students. We extend our sympathies to his family. He will be deepl
 Richard Ellison, an Emmy-winning documentary producer whose best-known work, a 13-part history of the Vietnam War, inspired both critical praise and an impassioned televised rebuttal after it was broadcast on public television in 1983, died on Friday at his home in Kingston, Mass. He was 80
 Yogi Bhajan, a former customs inspector at the Delhi airport who became both the spiritual leader to Americans following his version of the ancient Sikh religion and a highly successful entrepreneur, died Wednesday at his home in Española, N.M. He was 75. The cause was complication
 Dr. Jeffrey S. Schechner, an associate professor of dermatology at Yale who led research into how to produce a better artificial skin for grafting, died on Sept. 7 in New Haven. He was 39. The cause was a stroke, colleagues at the medical school said. Dr. Schechner, who was 
 Edward McAteer, who as the founder of the Religious Roundtable, a conservative Christian group, played a major role in establishing the Christian right's influence in American politics, died Wednesday after collapsing at his home in Memphis. He was 78. Mr. McAteer had been undergoin
 Jacques Derrida, the Algerian-born, French intellectual who became one of the most celebrated and notoriously difficult philosophers of the late 20th century, died Friday at a Paris hospital, the French president's office announced. He was 74. The cause of death was pancreatic cance
 James Chace, one of the country's leading foreign policy thinkers and historians, whose work altered mainstream thought about American global power, died Friday night of a heart attack in Paris. He was 72. His death was reported by his companion of many years, Joan Bingham, executiv
 APRIL--Mortimer. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our good friend, benefactor and ardent supporter of medical research and education programs at our institution. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his grandchildren and to all the members of
 COSTAGLIOLA -- Anthony. With the greatest of sadness, Greenhaven Associates deeply mourns the death of our beloved associate and friend, Tony Costagliola. Tony joined our firm 44 years ago. His skills were an inspiration to our firm and his warm and caring personality made him a constant so
 DeFILIPPES--Frank M., Ph.D. Suddenly on Thursday, October 7, 2004 of Bethesda, MD; beloved husband of 31 years to Mary Wolpert DeFilippes, Ph.D.; father of Portia DeFilippes and her husband, Phillip Hyatt of Bethesda, MD and Paul DeFilippes and his wife Ximena Ortiz DeFilippes of Washington
 FURMAN--Lawrence H., 81, of Jupiter, FL, left us on October 4, 2004 for an eternal fishing trip. Beloved and devoted husband and father, respected architect and world class fisherman, he will be missed by all who knew him. Larry leaves behind Gloria, his adoring wife of 55 years, five lovin
 GARDNER--Warren Mumford, on October 4, 2004 in Dobbs Ferry, NY. Born August 7, 1923 in Hackensack, NJ, he graduated from Columbia University with a degree in Sociology. He worked at IBM for 42 years in Personnel Data Systems and International Assignments, winning many awards. He had more th
 IJAMS--Porter. 73, of Delray Beach, FL, died peacefully on October 8, 2004. Beloved husband of Nini, he is also survived by daughters Rachel, Allison and Kitty and stepdaughter Olivia, their husbands David, Tom, Clem and Ben, and eight grandchildren. Memorial celebration to follow at a late
 LASHINE--William D. Age 54, died on October 4, 2004. Beloved son of Selma Lashine, brother to Carol Ellis and Nancy Lashine, brother-inlaw to Dr. Steve Ellis and Dr. Gary Sher. His honesty and love for people touched all who knew him. He will live in our hearts forever.       
 LAUB--Bernie. He was the patriarch of our family for over 100 years. We will love him forever and cherish his memory. Robert Laub (Hortie) Sam Laub (Muriel) his many nieces and nephews and most of all his devoted grandnieces and grandnephews Marc, Rachel, David, Rachel and his godson Joshua
 MASRI--Edmond, 67, died peacefully at home, October 8. He is survived by his mother, Flora Masry, his beloved wife of 36 years, Naomi, and his loving children, Michael, Karen and Vanessa, and his grandchildren Abigail and Emma. Services on Monday, October 11, at 11:30 AM, at Temple Emanuel,
 PAINTER--Colin, 72, Professor of Otolaryngology, opera lover, father and friend of many, passed September 27th, 2004. He will be missed. For info: 323-493-2267.       
 PITTMAN--Sample Noel. Of New York, NY. Died Tuesday, October 5, after a long illness. Noted collector of slavery artifacts, counselor and professor at Borough of Manhattan Community College, he was 79. Beloved father of Nicole, Sample Jr., Ava and Nicholas. Husband of Carol. Former husband 
 SCHOENFELD -- Howard. One of the last Greenwich Village bohemians of the 1930's and 1940's died September 26, 2004. Cherished husband of Dorothy and father of Jason, who miss him deeply.       
 SHAPIRO--Harris. The Officers, Directors, Trustees, Clergy and Congregation of Temple Emanu-El of Closter mourn the passing of our beloved friend and guiding light, Harris Shapiro. A man of action and compassion, Harris' tremendous support, deep insight and acts of loving kindness will insp
 EISENSTEIN--Alvin Gordon. Remembered always by his loving family and friends. 10/12/15 - 10/26/87       
 Townsend Hoopes, an author and onetime Washington insider who wrote of how President Lyndon Baines Johnson tried to de-escalate the Vietnam War in 1968, died on Sept. 20 in Baja California, Mexico. He was 82 and lived in Chestertown, Md. The cause was complications of melanoma, his 
 Charles R. Wood, who dreamed up an amusement park based on Mother Goose rhymes, then invested his life savings and hammered nails himself to create it, died on Sept. 30 at home in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 90, having lived 10 years after doctors ordered him to stop riding his own roller coas
 James Chace, one of the country's leading foreign policy thinkers and historians, whose work altered mainstream thought about American global power, died Friday night of a heart attack in Paris. He was 72. His death was reported by his companion of many years, Joan Bingham, executiv
 ACKERMAN--Allan J. On October 8, 2004. Beloved husband of Doris. Loving father and grandfather. He will be missed by all.       
 CHACE--James. The administration, faculty, and Trustees of Bard College deeply mourn the passing of James Chace, a beloved colleague and gifted educator, historian and author. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. He will be sorely missed. Leon Botstein, President Richard B. Fish
 JASON--Bernard A. LTC. USAR. Ret. Died October 8. Attended the American University in Paris. Graduated from George Washington University. Practiced accounting as a CPA for 40 years. Beloved husband to Barbara and Edith, deceased. Adored father and grandfather to Jack, Debra, Steven, Sheldon
 KONHEIM--Norris D. 90, formerly of Woodmere, NY, and Longboat Key, FL. Beloved husband of the late Natalie (Barnett) Konheim. Devoted father of Patty Goldenberg of Newton, MA, and the late Nancy K. Robinson of New York City, father-in-law of Dr. Don Goldenberg and the late Peter Robinson. D
 LASHINE--William D. Age 54, died on October 4, 2004. Beloved son of Selma Lashine, brother to Carol Ellis and Nancy Lashine, brother-inlaw to Dr. Steve Ellis and Dr. Gary Sher. His honesty and love for people touched all who knew him. He will live in our hearts forever.       
 RUBENSTEIN -- Mayer (Mike). 84, of West Orange, NJ, on Saturday, October 9, 2004, following a brief illness. Beloved and devoted husband of Fay. Loving father of Lynn, Donald, Clifford and Bruce. Beloved by their spouses, Seth, Nancy and Cathi. Adored by his eight grandchildren, Sari, Rache
 STONE -- Morton. Passed away October 9, age 72. Beloved husband of Harriet; father of Nancy, Clifton and Neil; brother of Marilyn, Howard and Fred; grandfather of Natalie, Monica and Andrew; father-in-law of Steve and Leslie; step-grandfather of Michael. Mort brought so much love and caring
 TEBBEL--Dr. John. Of Durham, NC, died October 10, after a brief illness. His long career covered journalism, publishing and education. He is survived by his wife Kathryn, a daughter Elaine, a granddaughter and two great-grandchildren, and a brother Robert Tebbel. Contributions may be made t
 WITCHELL--Barry Alan. On October 9, 2004. Loving husband of Ellen Stern Witchell. Devoted father of Linda, Matthew, Abigail and Jane. Proud grandfather of Lucy, Caroline and Sophie. Dear brother of Susan Winton. A quirky and clever man who managed to do it his way until the very end. Servic
 Richard L. Berger, a film and television executive who created the Touchstone label for Walt Disney Pictures, died on Sept. 29 in Los Angeles. He was 64 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The cause was complications of lung cancer, the public relations firm Guttman Associates announ
 William A. Watkins, a leading researcher of marine mammal acoustics who created a database of thousands of underwater calls from more than 70 species, died on Sept. 24 at his home in East Falmouth, Mass. He was 78. The cause was multiple myeloma, said his wife, Joan. Dr. Wat
 Christopher Reeve, the cinematic Superman who became a real-life inspiration through his painstaking efforts to overcome total paralysis, while speaking out for stem-cell research and other potential treatments, died on Sunday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 52 
 Ken Caminiti, the National League's most valuable player in 1996 but an admitted steroid user in his playing days and a cocaine user in recent years, died Sunday in the Bronx. He was 41. Caminiti's agent and lawyer, Rick Licht, said in an interview that Caminiti collapsed while visi
 Maxime A. Faget, a pioneering aerospace engineer whose design of the original Mercury space capsule ushered the United States into the age of manned space flight, died on Saturday at his home in Houston. He was 83. NASA announced the death, which came just five days after that of Go
 BRICK--Irving. Beloved husband of Lee. Devoted father of Pamela and Paul and father-in-law of Joyce. Loving grandfather of Emma and Jordan. Devoted brother of Henny and the late Julius. Also survived by a large and loving family. He was a distinguished Professor Emeritus of Biology at NYU. 
 CHACE -- James. Beloved friend of 47 years. We will miss his generous spirit and his electrifying intelligence and wit. My family offers our profound sympathy to his family. Kilty Binger Gilmour.       
 DONARGO--Alfred, 60, on October 11, of cancer. Beloved husband of Carol and father of Alexandra and Krista, brother of Robert and the late Barbara Gallimore. As teacher, coach, counselor, and doting father, Al cared deeply about the welfare of the young. As a stockbroker he always focused o
 GOLDRICH -- Kenneth. The Camp Ramah in the Berkshires family mourns the passing of our long time friend and supporter and former executive board member. His imprint on our camp is everlasting. We extend our sincerest condolences to the entire family. Steve Goldstein, President Dr. Charles M
 GOODMAN--Sol. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sol Goodman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Vera, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 LANDSMAN--Stanley F. Passed away October 9, 2004, age 72. Most beloved husband of Selma. Dearest father of Ivy Slevin (Richard), Dr. Lloyd Landsman (Donna) and Marc Landsman (Nancy). Grandfather of Brian, Katie, Jordan, Matthew and Spencer. He will be in our hearts and minds for eternity. F
 REEVE--Christopher. It is with an overwhelming sense of loss that the faculty and staff of the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine note the passing of Christopher Reeve. He was an inspirational leader in creating the resources that will enable scienti
 ROSNER--Richard. Of New York City, died peacefully at home October 9, 2004. Beloved husband of Daisy. Loving father of Jordan and James. Devoted grandfather of Tovia and Ari. Cherished brother of Eleanor Danziger and favorite Uncle Dickie to all his nieces and nephews. A memorial service wi
 ROSS--Raymond. On the evening of August 24, the photographer Raymond Ross, age 81, died in his home on Houston Street in Manhattan. The cause of death was complications from diabetes and asthma. For nearly 60 years, Ray Ross was a wellknown and widely admired figure in the New York downtown
 SHEAN--E. Townsend Jr. On October 10, 2004 of East Hampton and New York. He is survived by his wife Coco, daughters Claire and Jessup and four sisters Edith Hammond, Margo Dana, Claire Shean Markowitz and Caroline Levine. Memorial service to be held at St. Luke's Church, James Lane, East Ha
 THOMPSON--Charles O. Died on October 9. Beloved husband of Jean and father of Charlie, stepfather of Ede Conyers, Peggy Seybolt, and Ward Meyer and grandfather of 10. Spent 30 years on Wall Street, retiring from DLJ. Attended Choate, graduated from Harvard in 1952, as a member of A.D. Serve
 BATEN--Charles. Born June 30, 1901, died at his home in West Palm Beach on October 8, 2004. Husband for more than 64 years to the late Rita (''Kitty''), Dad to Mickey (Jill and Bobbie Geza) von Molnar, Papa to Amanda, Anina, Blythe (Joe), Karen, Melissa (Lee), great grandfather to Cas, Lain
 BENDER--Howard R., 76, of New York City, died on October 10, 2004. Loving father of Jill Pyszkowski and Alan, Steven and Todd Bender; grandfather of Justin, Jason, Pamela, Alyssa, Jenna and Josh. Loving brother of Leonard Bender and devoted partner to Stan Jacobs. He was dearly loved and wi
 BIDDLE -- Nicholas Duke. Died on October 11, 2004, in Madrid, Spain at the age of 83. Beloved husband of Elena Thiebaut of Madrid, devoted father of Pandora Duke Biddle of Southampton, New York and George Craig Biddle of New York City, and caring stepfather of Lucile Preston Herbert of New 
 CHACE -- James. The Trustees and staff of The New School University mark with sadness the death of James Chace, former editor of World Policy Journal and Senior Fellow Emeritus of The New School's World Policy Institute. Dr. Chace was a leading foreign policy thinker and historian. He was t
 CHAITE--Abraham, age 89. Beloved husband of Mamie, uncle and brother. He will be missed. Graveside service Wednesday, 1PM, Mt. Moriah Cemetery, Fairview, NJ.       
 CRYSTAL--Robert G., 87, former President of the Haymaker division of David Crystal Inc., passed away peacefully on Sunday night, October 10, 2004, in the arms of his children at his residence. Mr. Crystal's apparel business career spanned 35 years. During his college summers he began his ca
 ESZOTEK--Mark, formerly of Ohio passed away October 10, 2004. A graduate of Miami University, Ohio. He worked for Jim Henson Productions for 20 years as a puppet designer/builder. While there he won 4 Emmy awards. Survivors include his partner Arthur Ansalone, his brother Brett, a niece Abb
 FITZGERALD--John B., Jr. 39, on October 12, 2004 of Upper Saddle River, NJ. Beloved son of John B. Fitzgerald Sr. and the late Catherine (nee Mannix) Fitzgerald. Loving brother of Michael Fitzgerald of Plano, TX and Diane Reilly of Allendale, NJ. Adored uncle of Kayla, Christopher and Kevin
 FOGARTY--James E., 90, died on September 26, 2004. Beloved husband of 63 years of Helen Cochrane Fogarty. Born in New York, he received his education at Xavier High School, Fordham University and Fordham Law School. He served for five years in the F.B.I. and was a member of the Society of F
 GOODMAN--Sol. He leaves his adoring wife Vera of 64 years and his beloved attentive daughters Nancy Wydra and Robyn Goodman. We are only a few of numerous loving friends whose life he brightened and whose death has left our world emptier. Nessa & Jerome Ben-Asher Drs. Carol and Sandy Louis 
 JASON--Bernard. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Barbara, his children Jack, Steven, Sheldon, Fred, Debra and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan 
 KAHN--Ivan J., MD. On October 12, 2004. Beloved husband of Jewel. Loving father of Shari and Todd Krouner, Lisa and Jeff Gold, and Jeff Kahn. Adoring grandfather of Jessie, Sammie, Emily and Jason. Dear brother of Carolyn and Larry Davis and Larry and Barbara Blatte. Dedicated Physician, Me
 MILLS--Dr. Kenneth George, peacefully passed away on the morning of October 8th, 2004. Since 1976, Dr. Mills resided in Palgrave, Ontario, Canada. Born in St. Stephen, New Brunswick, Canada, Kenneth G. Mills attended Mount Allison University and pursued a successful career as a concert pian
 PITTER--Sidney. On October 12, 2004. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be greatly missed. Shiva observed at his home.       
 REEVE--Christopher. On behalf of the entire Board of Directors and staff of the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation we are deeply saddened and shocked by the sudden death of our friend and Chairman. He was a remarkable individual whose strength, optimism and sheer determination were an i
 ROSNER--Richard. Of New York City, died peacefully at home October 9, 2004. Beloved husband of Daisy. Loving father of Jordan and James. Devoted grandfather of Tovia and Ari. Cherished brother of Eleanor Danziger and favorite Uncle Dickie to all his nieces and nephews. A memorial service wi
 SHEAN--E. Townsend Jr. On October 10, 2004 of East Hampton and New York. He is survived by his wife Coco, daughters Claire and Jessup and four sisters Edith Hammond, Margo Dana, Claire Shean Markowitz and Caroline Levine. Memorial service to be held at St. Luke's Church, James Lane, East Ha
 THOMPSON--Charles O. Died on October 9. Beloved husband of Jean and father of Charlie, brother of Howard, stepfather of Ede Conyers, Peggy Seybolt, and Ward Meyer and grandfather of 10. Spent 30 years on Wall Street, retiring from DLJ. Attended Choate, graduated from Harvard in 1952, as a m
 Johnny Sturm, a former Yankees first baseman who managed Mickey Mantle in the minor leagues the year before Mantle started his Hall of Fame baseball career, died Friday at his home in St. Louis. He was 88. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, John, said. When Lou
 Joseph T. Zoline, who looked at a withering mining village nestled in the Colorado Rockies and imagined, then built, the elite ski resort of Telluride, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 92. His daughter Pamela Zoline said he died after a long illness.     
 Nicholas Duke Biddle, a scion of two prominent American families who helped refugees from Cuba and other Caribbean countries, died on Monday in Madrid. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, his cousin Tony Duke said. Mr. Biddle was originally named Anthony Joseph Drexel B
 COMATAS--George J. Age 73, died suddenly on October 12th, 2004. Beloved husband of Marina for 45 years. Loving father to Debbie, John and the late Alice. Loving father-in-law to Pat and Michele and cherished grandfather of MaryAlexa, Joseph, George and Michael. Loving brother of Aspasia, He
 FENTON--Robert. Age 87. Died peacefully at home on October 13, 2004. Beloved husband of Janet (Munk). Loving father of Joan and Paula. Father-in-law of Albie Tabackman. Devoted grandfather of Max. Brother of Frances Garfield. Mr. Fenton graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1937 
 FOGARTY--James E. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of James E. Fogarty, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White Jr., Historian       
 GISERMAN--Rubin. On October 12, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Rita. Loving father of Louis, Bernard and Meryl. Dear grandfather of Lindsey, Ivy, Danielle, Ross, Steven and Rachel. Devoted brother of Simon. He will be missed. Graveside service Thursday 2 PM, Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, 
 KAHN--Ivan J., MD. On October 12, 2004. Beloved husband of Jewel. Loving father of Shari and Todd Krouner, Lisa and Jeff Gold, and Jeff Kahn. Adoring grandfather of Jessie, Sammie, Emily and Jason. Dear brother of Carolyn and Larry Davis and Larry and Barbara Blatte. Dedicated Physician, Me
 LAZARUS--Lester W., 83, beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Susan and Robert, father - in - law of Joseph and Linda. Dear grandfather to Debra, Simon and Jeremy, and greatgrandfather of Max. He brightened all our lives. Services 11:30, Thursday, ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'', 91
 RASA--Ted. On October 11, 2004. Love, honesty, integrity were the most important things in his life. We express our heartfelt condolences on the passing of our dear and beloved friend. Our deepest sympathy to Margaret, Tanya (John), Teddy and Jonathan. We will love him forever. Annie and Ja
 REEVE--Christopher. On behalf of the entire Board of Directors and staff of the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation we are deeply saddened and shocked by the sudden death of our friend and Chairman. He was a remarkable individual whose strength, optimism and sheer determination were an i
 SHEAN--E. Townsend Jr. On October 10, 2004 of East Hampton and New York. He is survived by his wife Coco, daughters Claire and Jessup and four sisters Edith Hammond, Margo Dana, Claire Shean Markowitz and Caroline Levine. Memorial service to be held at St. Luke's Church, James Lane, East Ha
 SMITH--Bernard E., Jr. 79, of Hanahan, SC, and New York, NY, died October 13th, 2004 after a brief illness. He has been a member of the New York Stock Exchange since 1950, most recently as a partner at Lawrence, O'Donnell, Marcus and Company, from which he retired in 1994. Mr. Smith was a f
 ZESZOTEK--Mark, formerly of Ohio passed away October 10, 2004. A graduate of Miami University, Ohio. He worked for Jim Henson Productions for 20 years as a puppet designer/builder. While there he won 4 Emmy awards. Survivors include his partner Arthur Ansalone, his brother Brett, a niece Ab
 John Tebbel, a journalist, educator and media historian whose major work chronicled the history of American book publishing from the colonial era to the late 20th century, died on Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 91. Mr. Tebbel died in his sleep, his wife, Kathryn, said.   
 ABRAMSON--Seth F., M.D. Died October 13 from complications of surgery. He was 78. He grew up in New York City, graduating from Horace Mann School for Boys. Never one to boast about his academic achievements, Dr. Abramson had many: after serving in the Navy in World War II, he received his B
 BARSOUM--B. Elias. Age 87. Beloved husband of Lillian. Devoted father of Marlene, Bruno and Caroline. Loving father-in-law of Margaret. Cherished grandfather of Agatha. Dear brother of Jean. A mentor to many, he was respected and appreciated for his wisdom, grace, generosity and sense of hu
 BIDDLE--Nicholas Duke. The Board of Directors and staff of the International Rescue Committee are saddened by the death of Nicholas Duke Biddle, a valued member of our board from 1960 to 1972, and father of George Biddle our Senior Vice President. As chairman of the IRC Caribbean Refugee Pr
 FENTON--Robert. Age 87. Died peacefully at home on October 13, 2004. Beloved husband of Janet (Munk). Loving father of Joan and Paula. Father-in-law of Albie Tabackman. Devoted grandfather of Max. Brother of Frances Garfield. Mr. Fenton graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1937 
 HOFSTED--Professor Jolyon. Artist, died October 12 surrounded by family. Through his Art, students and friendships he lives on. Janice and Ron Mehlman       
 KAHN--Dr. Ivan. We mourn the death of our longtime devoted member, Dr. Ivan Kahn. We extend sympathy to his wife Jewel and his entire family. Geoffrey Whelan, President of the Board of Governors Bonnie Briar Country Club       
 LISSAUER--Robert. Age 87, on October 14, 2004. Cherished husband of Melinda. Devoted father of Geoffrey, John and Lianne. Beloved grandfather of Gregory, Caitlin, Nadya and Indigo. Treasured brother of Marion Weil. Service and Memorial to be announced. Donations in his memory may be made to
 LOVE--Fred. The entire TLC family mourns the death of our valued Board member and dear ''friend'' and extends sympathy to his beloved Jane and entire family.       
 MARLIB--''Mickey'' Marshall. Champion of People With Disabilities, died at 79. Mickey Marlib of Cranbury, NJ passed away peacefully on October 13, 2004 with his family at his bedside. He was born in Chicago on July 16, 1925 but was a longtime resident of Brooklyn. Mickey is survived by his 
 MEIER--Theodore Bernard. At age 79 on October 13, 2004 after 15 years of a long and courageous battle from the debilitating effects of two cerebral hemorrhages. He is survived by his devoted wife Barbara Jean and two daughters Cynthia Jean Meier and Maria Meier Reicin and a son-in-law Glenn
 SCHWARTZ--Gabriel B. Age 78, after a courageous battle with cancer. PFC in US Army, fought in the Battle of the Bulge, awarded a Purple heart. Graduate of the Harvard Law School. Assistant U.S. attorney in the criminal division, Southern District of NY. Adored husband of Nora, devoted fathe
 SMITH--Bernard E. Jr. 79, of Hanahan, SC and New York died October 13, 2004 after a brief illness. He became a member of the New York Stock Exchange in 1950, and at his death, ranked seventeenth in seniority among members of the Exchange. For many years he was a specialist in the stocks of 
 Peter L. Picknelly, a longtime transit executive and real estate developer who built Peter Pan Bus Lines into the country's largest privately owned bus company, died on Oct. 4 while vacationing in Portugal. He was 73 and a resident of Springfield, Mass. The cause was a stroke, his f
 Robert Lissauer, a music historian whose vast encyclopedia of American popular song, considered the definitive reference book in the field, settled innumerable arguments and started innumerable others, died yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx, his wife, Melinda, announced. He was 87 
 Bruce Palmer, who played bass guitar for Buffalo Springfield, the influential though short-lived folk-rock band that exemplified what was called the West Coast sound in the 1960's, died on Oct. 1 in Belleville, Ontario. He was 58. The cause was a heart attack, said Liese Rugo, a mus
 KORECHOFF -- George, on October 15, 2004. Beloved father of Jon, Jean, Mary, grandfather, uncle. Veteran of World War II. He will live in our hearts forever.       
 MEIER--Theodore Bernard. At age 79 on October 13, 2004 after 15 years of a long and courageous battle from the debilitating effects of two cerebral hemorrhages. He is survived by his devoted wife Barbara Jean and two daughters Cynthia Jean Meier and Maria Meier Reicin and a son-in-law Glenn
 RADER -- William. Beloved father of Carol Leib, Julie Schonbrun, Bette Philo. Beloved companion of Marcia Kaplan and loving husband of the late Eila Rader. Loving grandfather of Zach, Stephanie and Ben. Passed away Friday, October 15th. He retired from the U.S. Armed Forces as a Major and s
 SMITH--Bernard E. Jr. 79, of Hanahan, SC and New York died October 13, 2004 after a brief illness. He became a member of the New York Stock Exchange in 1950, and at his death, ranked seventeenth in seniority among members of the Exchange. For many years he was a specialist in the stocks of 
 WEBMAN--Harold. On October 14, 2004. Harold Webman, Co-Founder of H/B Webman & Co. passed away. Beloved husband to Belle, loving father to Beverly, Marcia and Dorothy, and treasured ''Papa'' to Kendall Mary, he valued friendship and music above all else. Hal was a highly regarded member of 
 ABRAMSON--Seth F., M.D. Died October 13 from complications of surgery. He was 78. He grew up in New York City, graduating from Horace Mann School for Boys. Never one to boast about his academic achievements, Dr. Abramson had many: after serving in the Navy in World War II, he received his B
 GOODMAN--Sol, 92, passed away October 9, 2004. He leaves his beloved wife Vera, daughters Nancilee Wydra and Robyn Goodman and grandson Zachary Wydra. His generosity of spirit and sense of humor touched all he met. A memorial will be held December 12, Temple Israel, Palm Beach, Fl at 1 PM. 
 HABBERTON -- John Law rence, 92, died September 24, having suffered a fall at his assisted living home in Falls Church, VA. Mr. Habberton helped form the Business Council for International Understanding and led it until his retirement in 1983. The Council had been initiated by President Eis
 KATZMAN--Herbert. Great painter, fine human being and good friend. Herby lives on in his canvases in America's finest museums and private collections, and in the memories of those who loved him. Our condolences to Dunie, Nick, Steve and Annie. Dan and Joanna Rose       
 KORECHOFF -- George, on October 15, 2004. Beloved father of Jon, Jean, Mary, grandfather, uncle. Veteran of World War II. He will live in our hearts forever.       
 KOUZMANOFF -- Alexander, 89, died October 9th. Architect, former professor and chairman of Columbia University School of Architecture. He is survived by his beloved wife Lillian, two sons Jan and Alan and two granddaughters Anne and Abbie.       
 LAWTON--James P. 56, died October 12, 2004, of heart failure at his home in New York City. Devoted father of Kathryn Ann Lawton of New York City, he is also survived by his mother, Patricia Lawton, three brothers, Edward, Jasper and Patrick Lawton, two sisters, Kitty Cook and Carlotta Lawto
 MAJOR--Andrew. Died Friday, October 15, New York City. Beloved husband of Flora and father of Katherine Major Firman and Nicholas Major. Loving grandfather of Linsay Firman. A legend in the textile industry, fondly known as ''The King of the Mills.'' Born in Hungary in 1921, served in the U
 MEIER--Theodore Bernard. At age 79 on October 13, 2004 after 15 years of a long and courageous battle from the debilitating effects of two cerebral hemorrhages. He is survived by his devoted wife Barbara Jean and two daughters Cynthia Jean Meier and Maria Meier Reicin and a son-in-law Glenn
 NOVICK--Irving. 88, died in his sleep Friday, October 15. Best friend and loving husband for 64 years of Sylvia (nee Greenwald), father of Leslie and Bill Frank, Wayne, Donna Feranda and Jan, Susannah Elliott and Kim, grandfather of Jad, Mia, Eliza and Cray, great-grandfather of Julia and W
 RADER--William. The Board of Governors and Members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our esteemed member, William, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to Marcia Kaplan and his family. Board of Governors Alan Goldberg, President       
 RUTTENBERG--Derald H. I miss my husband and friend. He took big steps to enormous accomplishments. He was devoted to me and our four children. My love for him deepened through our 53 year marriage.       
 SHAPIRO--Dr. Howard I. 66, a longtime resident of Westport, died suddenly of an apparent heart attack on October 13, while vacationing in Hawaii. In 1962, he was a founding partner of the Avery Center for Obstetrics and Gynecology. Recently, he retired from private practice and dedicated hi
 SICKLES--George. On October 8, in Pompano Beach, FL, at age 90. With his passing, we celebrate an extraordinary man whose life's work was dedicated, as he recently said, to ''the welfare of the common man.'' In 44 years as a union official in New York City with United Paperworkers Internati
 TURCIHIN--Ilusha. Age 77, on October 16, 2004. Beloved and loving grandfather to Ayla and Leyla Stern. Father to Olya and husband of 45 years to Jale. Also survived by sons-in-law Al Stern and Sten Evenhouse, many nieces and nephews and loved by many. Pre-deceased by his cherished daughter,
 Pierre Salinger, the spokesman for the Kennedy White House who later became a European correspondent for ABC News, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Le Thor, France. He was 79. Mr. Salinger had been in declining health for four years and died of heart failure, said a lon
 COOKE--M. Todd. The Musicians, Trustees and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of their longtime friend and trustee, and extend their sympathy to his wife Peggy and his family. As a member of the Board for almost three decades, and as Treasurer and Vice President
 FIELDS--Arthur A. Of West Palm Beach, FL, and Chestnut Hill, MA, formerly of Cleveland, OH, on Friday, October 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Teri B. (Ross) Fields and the late Helen (Krohngold) Fields. Devoted father of Lawrence Fields and his wife Cynthia, Philip Fields and his wife Ellen, 
 GAMPERT--Stewart Allan. Formerly of Tenafly, NJ, passed away on October 16, 2004 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Louise (Rothstein). Adored father of Richard Gampert of NYC, and Caryll Greene and her husband of Steven of Massachusetts. Devoted uncle of Lynn, Elizabeth, Richard, Ellen 
 GRUEN--William (Bill). Died on October 16, 2004, at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital after a valiant battle with cancer, at the age of 85. Born Wilhelm Gruenberg on July 19, 1919, in Vienna, Austria, to the late Hugo Gruenberg and Frances Weiss, Bill was educated in Vienna at the TGM Verband 
 KATZMAN--Herbert. Great painter, fine human being and good friend. Herby lives on in his canvases in America's finest museums and private collections, and in the memories of those who loved him. Our condolences to Dunie, Nick, Steve and Annie. Dan and Joanna Rose       
 KUHN--Leo J. (Pop-Pop). 1918-2004. Beloved father of James and Robert. Father-inlaw to Marjorie and Rona. Loved companion to Charlotte Wilson. Beloved husband to the late Lenore ''Sunnie'' Kuhn. Loving grandfather of Joseph, Carly, Justin, Jake and Remy. Brother of the late Florence Dumanis
 MAJOR--Andrew. Died Friday, October 15, New York City. Beloved husband of Flora and father of Katherine Major Firman and Nicholas Major. Loving grandfather of Linsay Firman. A legend in the textile industry, fondly known as ''The King of the Mills.'' Born in Hungary in 1921, educated in Swi
 SAUNDERS--Bernard. 91, of Lake Worth, FL. Formerly of White Plains, NY. Died peacefully in his sleep on October 16, at midnight. Survived by his loving and devoted wife Reita, daughters Lynn Hyman, Barbara Addy and Ellen Smith, son Richard Chadakoff and brother William Saunders. Caring gran
 TURCIHIN--Ilusha. Age 77, on October 16, 2004. Beloved and loving grandfather to Ayla and Leyla Stern. Father to Olya and husband of 45 years to Jale. Also survived by sons-in-law Al Stern and Sten Evenhouse, many nieces and nephews and loved by many. Pre-deceased by his cherished daughter,
 Pierre Salinger, the debonair, half-French investigative reporter who became famous as John F. Kennedy's White House press secretary at the height of the cold war and went on to work as a prize-winning television correspondent for ABC News in Europe, died Saturday at a hospital near his hom
 Douglas Day, a biographer and critic who won a National Book Award in 1974 for his life of the English novelist Malcolm Lowry, died on Oct. 10 in his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 72. Dr. Day, who had a debilitating stroke in February, committed suicide, his daughter, Emily Da
 CHOLST--Shelly, Dr. Humanist, psychiatrist, poet and artist, passed away peacefully on October 18, 2004. Surviving him are his daughter Ina and his two sons David and Tony. Also surviving are a brother Dr. Mortimer Cholst and two sisters Paula Levitt and Betty Cholst. He also leaves seven g
 COOKE--M. Todd. The family of The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the loss of its longtime trustee and former chairman, M. Todd Cooke, and extends deepest sympathy to his wife, Peggy, and family. The city of Philadelphia has lost one of its great civic leaders and the world of music, espec
 FEINBERG -- Herbert S., DMD. died suddenly without warning Sunday, October 17, 2004. Loved and loving brother of Dr. Lotte Feinberg (Edmund). He leaves bereft family, friends and patients. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Tufts University Dental School, he practiced dentistry for 25 years
 FELDER--Edwin. Son of David Felder and Becky Shakin; brother of Miriam Shore. A warm, gentle humorous man. He will be missed. For info: dberman@wbspc.com       
 GAMPERT -- Stewart Alan. Formerly of Tenafly, NJ, passed away on October 16, 2004 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Louise (Rothstein). Adored father of Richard Gampert of NYC, and Caryll Greene and her husband Steven of Massachusetts. Devoted uncle of Lynn, Elizabeth, Richard, Ellen an
 KUHN--Leo J. (Pop-Pop). 1918-2004. Beloved father of James and Robert. Father-inlaw to Marjorie and Rona. Loved companion to Charlotte Wilson. Beloved husband to the late Lenore ''Sunnie'' Kuhn. Loving grandfather of Joseph, Carly, Justin, Jake and Remy. Brother of the late Florence Dumanis
 MAJOR--Andrew. Died Friday, October 15, New York City. Beloved husband of Flora and father of Katherine Major Firman and Nicholas Major. Loving grandfather of Linsay Firman. A legend in the textile industry, fondly known as ''The King of the Mills.'' Born in Hungary in 1921, educated in Swi
 RICHARDSON--Theodore G., 81. Passed away October 8. Vice President of Brown Crosby Insurance Brokers. Retired at 49. Formerly of Quogue, Long Island, he moved to Richmond, Massachusetts in 1990. Survived by his wife Ingrid, daughter Ann, grandsons J.P. and Andrew.       
 SCHLOWSKY - FISCHER -Mark H. age 29 of Hoboken. On Sunday, October 17, 2004 at his home in Hoboken, he ended his battle with Burkitt's lymphoma, which he fought with unwavering optimism and courage. Mark was born and raised in Ridgewood, graduated (gra da ted) Columbia School of Engineering
 STODDARD--John E. Age 72. Passed away peacefully at his home in Pennington NJ on Sunday. Mr. Stoddard was born in Brooklyn and graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1954. He was a senior investment banker with Blyth Eastman Dillon & Co. before retiring in 1979. He was active in man
 ADAMS--Eddie. On Thursday, October 21, family and friends will gather at The Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine at 10 A.M. to remember and celebrate the life of Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer Eddie Adams, who died September 19 of Lou Gehrig's disease. During his career, Adams wo
 Ray Boone, an American League All-Star infielder who was the patriarch of the first three-generation family of major leaguers, died Sunday at a hospital in San Diego. Boone, who lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., was 81. The cause was complications of intestinal surgery he had in May
 Dr. Thomas M. Donahue, a pioneering space scientist whose career went from studying Earth's stratosphere with early rockets to probing the atmosphere of Jupiter with spacecraft, died on Saturday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 83. The cause was complications after heart surgery he had a 
 Dr. Lawrence Z. Freedman, a pioneering forensic psychiatrist whose research and writings delved into the causes of violence, particularly assassinations, terrorism and mass murder, died on Oct. 6 at his home in Chicago. He was 85. The cause was a stroke, his son Thomas said.        
 BREAN -- David, Chairman Emeritus of the Harlem School of the Arts, Visual Arts Department, passed away on October 11. Mr. Brean devoted 40 years of his life to the School. Viewing 4 to 6 PM; service at 6 PM at St. James Presbyterian Church, St. Nicholas Ave, and 141 St., NYC.       
 CHOLST--Shelly, Dr. Humanist, psychiatrist, poet and artist, passed away peacefully on October 18, 2004. Surviving him are his daughter Ina and his two sons David and Tony. Also surviving are a brother Dr. Mortimer Cholst and two sisters Paula Levitt and Betty Cholst. He also leaves seven g
 KUHN--Leo J. The Advisory Board, faculty and students of the Real Estate Institute of New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies mourn the passing of Leo Kuhn, beloved father of our Board Chairman, James D. Kuhn. We extend our condolences to the entire Kuhn family a
 MARTZ--Lawrence. Died on October 18, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Rebecca Martz. Devoted father of his children, Dr. Brian Martz and daughter-in-law Loren Martz, the late Wendy Goldhirsh and Peter Martz. Adored grandfather of Lila, Brandon, Jesse, Benjamin and Elizabeth. An extraordina
 NEEDLE--William B. Investment banker and artist died peacefully Monday at his home, 1805 Ministerial Road, Wakefield, R.I. 02879.       
 SCHMIDT--Herman J., 87, passed away on October 18, 2004, at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, CT. Mr. Schmidt, retired Vice-Chairman of Mobil Oil Corporation, was born in Davenport, Iowa, on February 26, 1917. He was a graduate of The University of Iowa and Harvard Law School. Mr. Schmidt is
 STEIGMAN--Stephen ''Steve''. Beloved husband of Peggy Flaum and beloved father of Willy Sarah Steigman of Riverdale and Quogue, N.Y. Mr. Steigman epitomized the self made man. From the 1960s through the 1990s he was one of America's leading commercial photographers and directors. His most r
 ADAMS--Eddie. On Thursday, October 21, family and friends will gather at The Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine at 10 A.M. to remember and celebrate the life of Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer Eddie Adams, who died September 19 of Lou Gehrig's disease. During his career, Adams wo
 JULIA--Raul. A Memorial Mass for Raul Julia commemorating the 10th anniversary of his death will be given October 23rd, 9AM, Holy Trinity Church, 213 W. 82 St.       
 Richard M. Schmidt Jr., a communications lawyer who was general counsel to the American Society of Newspaper Editors and was involved in several significant First Amendment cases, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Gr
 BESSINGER--Gerald. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Muriel and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rose
 CHAMBERLIN--Russell Edward. (1960-2004) Suddenly, October 17, 2004. Beloved father of Clark and Phoebe. Mourned by former wife Alice. Cherished son of Dorothy Paulet and Stanley Chamberlin. Loving brother of Lorilyn DeCarlo, Glenn Chamberlin and Susan Booth. Beloved fiance of Jeanne Richmon
 FALCO--Salvatore V. Resident of NYC, NY passed away on October 18, 2004. Dear husband of Martha Falco; Con Edison retiree. Survived by a devoted stepson and his wife Robert and Marlene Stacer Sr. and a step grandson and his wife Robert and Sandra Stacer Jr. Also survived by a brother and hi
 GERSHENOV--William. Formerly of Lake Success, N.Y., passed away on October 11, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Shirley Gershenov. He will be deeply missed by his daughters Denise and Trudi, stepson Robert, grandson Sean and son-in-law Steven.       
 GEVIRMAN--Herbert. On October 20, 2004. Beloved husband of Matilda; devoted father of Debora, cherished grandfather of Sara. Also survived by several nieces and nephews & his sister Miriam Glickman. Services Friday 9:30AM at Central Synagogue 123 East 55 Street, NYC. In lieu of flowers dona
 GOLDENBERG--Israel B. Died on October 19, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Helene S. Goldenberg, father of Ann and husband Dr. Peter Perinchief, loving grandfather of Rebecca and husband Dr. Fabian von Knoch, Lieutenant Lauren Baskins and husband Lieutenant Isaac Baskins (USMC), and Corpor
 JAFFE--Daniel M., M.D., died of cancer October 12, Pittsburgh, PA. Will be missed by his wife Amy, daughters Natalie and Emmelia, his parents Paul and Florence, and brother Fred. Had been Associate Medical Director of GE, Medical Director of ALCOA and Monsanto. Had many and varied interests
 KELLERMAN -- Sam. One month shy of 30. Killed in Los Angeles. Sam was a cosmic influence on everyone. He was a writer without compare, a professional actor, director, book editor, recording artist, columnist, Yiddishist, humanist, Shakespearean scholar and Yankee fan. He was a person of int
 MICHEL--Clifford L., retired partner with the New York City law firm of Cahill, Gordon & Reindel, died on Tuesday, October 19, 2004 at his home in Gladstone, N.J. He was 65. The cause was lung cancer. Mr. Michel, known to all as Mickey, began his career at Cahill, Gordon & Reindel in 1964. 
 RUESCH--Otto Josef. The Trustees and Staff of the Corcoran Gallery of Art and College of Art and Design mourn the loss of their longtime friend and Chairman and extend their sympathies to his wife Jeanne and his sons Matthew and Christoph. As a member of the Board and as Chairman, Otto brou
 STEIGMAN -- Stephen. The Lennox - Weberman family deeply mourns the loss of their dear friend Steve, devoted and loving husband of Peggy Flaum and adoring and proud father of their daughter, Willy. He will always be remembered by his friends who so greatly admired and profoundly valued his 
 WARSHAVSKY--Murray. Beloved husband of the late Joyce Marcus Warshavsky. Cherished father of Letty (Michael) and Calvin (Andrea). Loving grandfather to Meredith, David, Lindsay, Robert and Joanna. Services Friday 1 PM from the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave. In li
 ZIEGLER--George J. Former Chief Engineer and VP of the NYC Transit Authority for 34 yrs, died October 17, at 74. He was involved with planning, design and construction of the Billion Dollar New Routes Program including the 63rd St subway, East River tunnel, 2nd Ave subway, Jamaica's Archer 
 Paul H. Nitze, an expert on military power and strategic arms whose roles as negotiator, diplomat and Washington insider spanned the era from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Ronald Reagan and helped shape America's cold war relationship with the Soviet Union, died Tuesday night at his home in Wash
 Anthony Hecht, an accomplished formalist poet whose early work of courtliness and urbanity gave way to searing chronicles of the 20th-century's terrors, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was lymphoma, said his wife, Helen. His first book, ''A Summonin
 CANNON -- Beekman Cox. Husband of the late Margaret, uncle of Julia C. Wertenbaker, Urling C. Kingery and Henry Brevoort Cannon, III; great uncle of six great nieces and nephews. Professor Emeritus of Music at Yale, past Master of Jonathan Edwards College, long-time Director and past Presid
 GEVIRMAN -- Herbert. The Chaim Sheba Medical Center and the American Friends of Sheba sorrowfully mourn the passing of Herb Gevirman, the American Friends' longtime Treasurer and Boardmember. Herb's selfless devotion and many years of service will forever be remembered. We extend our heartf
 GOLDENBERG--Israel B. Died on October 19, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Helene S. Goldenberg, father of Ann and husband Dr. Peter Perinchief, loving grandfather of Rebecca and husband Dr. Fabian von Knoch, Lieutenant Lauren Baskins and husband Lieutenant Isaac Baskins (USMC), and Corpor
 JAFFE--Daniel M., M.D., died of cancer October 12, Pittsburgh, PA. Will be missed by his wife Amy, daughters Natalie and Emmelia, his parents Paul and Florence, and brother Fred. Had been Associate Medical Director of GE, Medical Director of ALCOA and Monsanto. Had many and varied interests
 KELLERMAN -- Sam. One month shy of 30. Killed in Los Angeles. Sam was a cosmic influence on everyone. He was a writer without compare, a professional actor, director, book editor, recording artist, columnist, Yiddishist, humanist, Shakespearean scholar and Yankee fan. He was a person of int
 LAWTON--James P. 56, died October 12, 2004, of heart failure at his home in New York City. Devoted father of Kathryn Ann Lawton of New York City, he is also survived by his mother, Patricia Lawton, three brothers, Edward, Jasper and Patrick Lawton, two sisters, Kitty Cook and Carlotta Lawto
 LEFKOWITZ--Joseph, 84, on October 21. Devoted husband of Frieda for 56 years. Loving father of Susan (Bennett) Lass and Bonnie (Jordan) Toder. Cherished ''Papa'' of Matthew, Tobey, Daniel, Alexander and Jesse. His positive, optimistic outlook on life was an inspiration to us all. He will be
 MARSILI--Aldo U. A resident of Port Chester and formerly of the Bronx, died October 18, 2004. He was 50 and was born December 24, 1953 in the Bronx to Maria Antonacci Marsili and the late Ugo Marsili. He was raised and educated in the Bronx and graduated from Iona College in New Rochelle wi
 MICHEL--Clifford L., retired partner with the New York City law firm of Cahill, Gordon & Reindel, died on Tuesday, October 19, 2004 at his home in Gladstone, N.J. He was 65. The cause was lung cancer. Mr. Michel, known to all as Mickey, began his career at Cahill, Gordon & Reindel in 1964. 
 MILLER--Steven Zane. We, the staff of the Division of Pediatric Emergency Medicine of the Children's Hospital of NY-Presbyterian, have no way to adequately express our grief for the tragic loss of our irreplaceable leader. None of us would be the medical professionals we are today if it wer
 NITZE--Paul Henry on October 19, 2004 of Washington DC. He is survived by his wife, Elisabeth Scott Porter; his stepdaughter, Erin Porter and her husband, Jesse Fisher, and by three step-grandchildren. He is also survived by his children, Heidi Nitze, Peter P. Nitze, William A. Nitze, and P
 SARKIN--Richard, M.D. A talented pediatrician whose life was tragically cut short. A gentle, big guy, Richard always left you smiling. I will miss Richard and his weekly emails. John E. Sherman, M.D.       
 SEPLER--Sandy, died October 20, 2004 of a sudden illness at age 68. Beloved husband of Gail. Devoted father of Jon, Doug (Eileen) and Sam (Brian). Loving grandfather of Cooper. Cherished brother and brother-in-law of David and Renee. Dear uncle of Rick and Fran. Caring son of Bess and Mack.
 STEIN--Jean. Died October 20, 2004. Beloved wife of 65 years of Jacob. Devoted mother of Richard, Stuart and Linda. Loving mother-in-law of Roselle, Pepi and Jack. Cherished grandmother of Kenneth, Beth (Chris), Heather (Mitchell), Marissa, Deborah (Keith) and Sara (Jon) and great - grandmo
 Chuck Hiller, the first National League player to hit a grand slam in the World Series and a longtime member of the Mets organization, died Wednesday at his home in St. Pete Beach, Fla. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, said his son-in-law, David Maw. A National League infi
 CANNON -- Beekman Cox. Husband of the late Margaret, uncle of Julia C. Wertenbaker, Urling C. Kingery and Henry Brevoort Cannon, III; great uncle of six great nieces and nephews. Professor Emeritus of Music at Yale, past Master of Jonathan Edwards College, long-time Director and past Presid
 DALY--James J. On Thursday, October 21, 2004, James J. Daly passed away at Cabrini Medical Center in New York City. James was born in New York on November 18, 1918, the son of Edward and Mary Sheridan Daly. James attended Xavier High School in New York. He received a bachelor's degree from 
 DRYER--Howard L. of White Plains, NY died October 21 2004. He was an attorney and S.U.M. Arbitrator. He is survived by his wife Rhoda, son Brad, and daughter Jennifer. Services to be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY on Sunday, 12 noon.       
 GEORGIOS--Chadwell Doyle Of Montrose. He will be reposing at Edward F. Carter Funeral Home, Montrose, NY. 914-737-0900.       
 GOODMAN -- Harvey. Be loved husband of Linda. Devoted father of Alison (Jeremy) Bernstein and Alan. Adored grandfather of Eitan and Shayne. Dear brother of Stanley. Loving uncle. He was a devoted teacher and friend, past president of Marathon Jewish Center. Services Sunday 10:30am at Marath
 HECHT--Anthony. The administration, faculty, Board of Trustees, and alumni/ae of Bard College mourn the passing of Anthony Hecht 44, one of the world's great literary minds and an alumnus and former faculty member whose extraordinary achievements as a poet made all of us extremely proud to 
 KENNEDY--Charles Francis. On October 20, 2004. An extraordinary man whose life's passions were fulfilled as a naturalist, wildlife photographer, artisan and poet. He was a volunteer at the American Museum of Natural History, member of the Woodlands Advisory Board of Central Park, creator of
 PACKER--Henry. 91, passed away on October 22, 2004. Loving and devoted husband to Sylvia. Loving father to Helaine, Jane and Michael Myerow, Sheri and Jimmy Langel. Endearing Papa to Fran, Jordan, Bobby, Danny, Jonathan, and Jenna. He is in our hearts forever. Funeral, Sunday October 24th, 
 PARKER--LeRoy. Formerly of NY, on October 19, 2004 in Ashland, KY, longtime friend of George Bishop. LeRoy had an extensive and brilliant career as a tenor soloist. As a teenager, LeRoy was a winner on the Ted Mack Original Amateur Hour. He sang at various churches in the NY area including 
 SACHS--Milton E. Beloved husband of Helene. Devoted father of Judith and loving stepfather to Hope and Sue. Grandfather to Mia. He will be remembered as an extraordinary man and a great healer.       
 SARKIN--Richard T., M.D. In his wake, I and many others will keep sharpening the saw. Thanks to you, Rich, for the everlasting inspiration. Elizabeth K. Goldman, M.D.       
 SEPLER--Sandy, died October 20, 2004 of a sudden illness at age 68. Beloved husband of Gail. Devoted father of Jon, Doug (Eileen) and Sam (Brian). Loving grandfather of Cooper. Cherished brother and brother-in-law of David and Renee. Dear uncle of Rick and Fran. Caring son of Bess and Mack.
 STEVENS--Lawrence R. 93, on October 21. Devoted husband of the late Elsie. Father and best friend to Bruce and daughter-in-law Gladys of NYC and East Hampton. Missed by all for his kindness, exuberance, intellect, passion for the Yankees and his lifelong joie de vivre.       
 WILLIAMS--Curtis A., Jr. 77, first Dean of Natural Sciences at SUNY Purchase, died peacefully on October 18, 2004. He is survived by wife Marjorie, three children and six grandchildren.       
 ELAHI--Cyrus. One with love In his heart Never dies.       
 Dr. Steven Z. Miller, director of pediatric emergency medicine at the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, and a well-known educator in the movement promoting humanism in medicine, died Oct. 19 in the plane crash near Kirks
 John McNamara, who walked every street in the Bronx and recorded the often idiosyncratic history of each (yes, even Yznaga Place), died on Oct. 15 in the Bronx. He was 92. The cause was prostate cancer, his son, John, said. Mr. McNamara was known for wearing his many hats, f
 Much of the Washington establishment paid its final respects on Saturday at the National Cathedral to Paul H. Nitze, the arms control negotiator and diplomat, who was remembered by his son Peter for his understanding that ''the best of human endeavors represent the art of the possible, not 
 CONN--William P. 81, died September 24, 2004. He spent 16 years as Company Manager at Circle in the Square Theatre, retiring in 1988. Call 201-944-1895 for details on a memorial service.       
 COONEY--John M. ''Jack.'' Jack passed away on October 21, 2004 in Louisville, KY, where he resided since June 2003. Born in Woodlawn, NY, he relocated to Ardsley, NY in 1950 and many years later moved to the Princeton/ Cranbury area in New Jersey. He was a long time manager with AT&T and at
 DALY--James J. On Thursday, October 21, 2004, James J. Daly passed away at Cabrini Medical Center in New York City. James was born in New York on November 18, 1918, the son of Edward and Mary Sheridan Daly. Brother of the late Kathleen Daly. James attended Xavier High School in New York. He
 DANCIS--Bernice. Died October 22, 2004. Beloved wife of Dr. Joseph Dancis. Devoted mother of Dale and Andrew and his wife Eileen. Loving grandmother of Alanna, David and Matthew. Cherished sister of Sidney, Howard, Marvin Schrier and the late Rose Spitz. Services will be Sunday, October 24,
 GOODMAN -- Harvey. Be loved husband of Linda. Devoted father of Alison (Jeremy) Bernstein and Alan. Adored grandfather of Eitan and Shayne. Dear brother of Stanley. Loving uncle. He was a devoted teacher and friend, past president of Marathon Jewish Center. Services Sunday 10:30am at Marath
 HANNAN--John S., 86, of New York, died Tuesday, October 19, 2004, at NYU Medical Center. Survived by his wife, Beatriz Hannan.       
 ISAACSON--Bernard B. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Bernard B. Isaacson. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 KENNEDY--Charles Francis. On October 20, 2004. An extraordinary man whose life's passions were fulfilled as a naturalist, wildlife photographer, artisan and poet. He was a volunteer at the American Museum of Natural History, member of the Woodlands Advisory Board of Central Park, creator of
 KRAMER--Philip L., 47, of Bayside, New York. Guitarist extraordinaire passed away on October 16, 2004. Loving son of Rhona and Jack. Dear brother of Iris. He leaves behind a close circle of devoted friends and loving family. He will be missed.       
 LaRUE--Jan, 86, Professor Emeritus of Musicology, NYU, died Sunday, October 17, 2004, of complications from a stroke. His wife Marian Green LaRue was at his side. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, Carl LaRue, two daughters from his previous marriage to Helen Robison: Cha
 MILLER--Steven Z. The faculty, staff and students of Columbia University Medical Center mourn the tragic loss of our friend and colleague, Dr. Steven Miller. A much beloved teacher and member of the pediatrics faculty since 1993, he was honored with numerous prestigious awards for his excep
 PLOURDE -- Gerard. O.C. 1916-2004. At his residence on October 18, 2004, in Montreal, Canada. Predeceased by his wife Jeannine Beaulieu Martineau, he leaves to mourn his daughter Monique Ogilvie (Palm Beach, FL), his sons Pierre (the Honourable Judge Brigitte Gouin Plourde), Marc-Andre (Jea
 REMPELL--Joseph, 92 died on October 20, 2004 at his home in White Plains, NY. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his wife Grace, his children Steven and Marcia Rempell, David and Donna Rempell, Lisa and Howard Klein and Susan and David Roth and seven grandchildren. H
 REYNOLDS--James Thompson. Died at his home in Bonita Springs, FL, on Wednesday, October 20th, 2004. He was 69. Reynolds graduated from Xenia (Ohio) High School and went on to Princeton University (1957). He was a member of Baltusrol Golf Club, Springfield, NJ. James, known as Jim, began his
 RICHMAN--Robert M., M.D. October 23, 2004. Husband of Jeanne. Father of Amy Donnelly, Paul Richman, M.D., Jonathan Richman, M.D., and Jory Richman, M.D. Brother of Edward Richman, Stephen Richman and Nancy Gilbert. Grandfather of fourteen. He practiced orthopedic surgery in New York for mor
 SARKIN--Richard T., M.D. In his wake, I and many others will keep sharpening the saw. Thanks to you, Rich, for the everlasting inspiration. Elizabeth K. Goldman, M.D.       
 SCHMIDERER -- Timothy Franz, 65, died October 22, after a sudden illness. We are deeply saddened at the passing of this consummate architect and extraordinary human being. Our heart goes out to his loving wife Nancy; his children Emily Schmiderer Ford and Anthony Schmiderer; grandchildren J
 SEPLER--Sandy, died October 20, 2004 of a sudden illness at age 68. Beloved husband of Gail. Devoted father of Jon, Doug (Eileen) and Sam (Brian). Loving grandfather of Cooper. Cherished brother and brother-in-law of David and Renee. Dear uncle of Rick and Fran. Caring son of Bess and Mack.
 SHAPIRO--Dr. Howard. The sudden loss of Dr. Howard Shapiro of Westport, CT who died October 13 at just 66 years of age, leaves his sisters, Mrs. Barbara Marion of Boca Raton, FL and Dr. Bonnie Auerbach of Sherman Oaks, CA, with the memories of a loving brother who was deeply missed by all t
 DUKE--Terri Lynn (aka Linda Schimmel). Born October 27, 1955, Chicago with twin brother Ernest Duke. Do you know him? 212-787-0445       
 Alexander Kouzmanoff, an architect and professor who designed the award-winning underground annex of the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 89. The cause was complications of a stroke, his son Jan sa
 Cardinal James A. Hickey, the former archbishop of Washington who led the Roman Catholic Church in the nation's capital for 20 years until his retirement in 2000, died early yesterday at a nursing home in the District of Columbia. He was 84. He died at the Jeanne Jugan Residence, a 
 Frederick William Hill, an educator and school business official in charge of the New York school system's finances during its tumultuous reorganization in the 1960's, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Owensboro, Ky. He was 92. The cause was bladder and prostate cancer, his family said
 Michael Grant, a classical scholar who did groundbreaking research on the coinage of Rome, then wrote lucid, learned histories of the ancient world for the general reader, died on Oct. 4 in London. He was 89. His son, Antony, said Dr. Grant died in a London hospital. He returned to 
 BUIAR--Paul. The Inner Circle records with sorrow the loss of our esteemed member and director and extends sympathy to his wife Irina and family. He died at age 79 on July 16, 2004. Memorial service Wednesday, October 27, 6 PM, New York City Hall.       
 COONEY--John M. ''Jack.'' Jack passed away on October 21, 2004 in Louisville, KY, where he resided since June 2003. Born in Woodlawn, NY, he relocated to Ardsley, NY in 1950 and many years later moved to the Princeton/ Cranbury area in New Jersey. He was a long time manager with AT&T and at
 KIRSCHNER--Joseph H. 57, died on October 23. Beloved son of Sidney and Sala Kirschner. Husband of Louise Kirschner, father of Jeremy and Jennie, grandfather of Michele and Hannah Rose, brother of Ann and David. The core of our family, the leader in his community and respected colleague at I
 LEDY--William A. Beloved husband of the late Susan. Adored father of David and Pia Ledy and Nancy LedyGurren. Devoted grandfather to Jordan and Cameron Ledy. A real estate investor and businessman, he will be remembered most for his warmth, humor and his unabiding love and respect for peopl
 ROUSMANIERE--James A. 86, Democrat, fund raiser and sailor, October 22, 2004, in Southbury, CT, following a stroke. He ran campaigns for Harvard, United Negro College Fund, Museum of Modern Art, among others. He mounted civic betterment efforts in Oyster Bay, NY, and Southbury. He made a di
 WINDHOLZ--Thomas B. 81, an owner of Windwood Gallery, died in New York on October 22, 10 days after playing his last tennis game. Born in Arad, Romania, he immigrated to the States via Hungary in 1956 and worked as a research scientist at Merck. A defiant survivor of Nazism and Stalinism, a
 Cardinal James A. Hickey, the former archbishop of Washington who led the Roman Catholic Church in the nation's capital for 20 years until his retirement in 2000, died early Sunday in the District of Columbia. He was 84. He died at the Jeanne Jugan Residence, a nursing home operated
 Charles Seaver, an outstanding amateur golfer in the 1930's, died yesterday at a hospice in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 93 and lived in Pebble Beach. His death was announced by his son, Tom Seaver, the Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher and Mets broadcaster. In the 1932 Walker Cu
 BITTERMAN--Leonard. Beloved husband of Cynthia. Devoted father of Stephanie and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Brandon. Loving brother of Howard Bitterman and Luise Kleinberg. Services Tuesday 1 PM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. BITTERM
 CAMPBELL--Neil A., 58, loving husband, father, brother, gifted educator, and world-renowned author passed away from complications following a heart attack on October 21, 2004. Dr. Campbell was a source of inspiration for many, and we are all better for having worked, lived, and laughed with
 COCHRANE--William Henry, 92, of Vero Beach, died Saturday, October 23 at Somerset House at Oak Harbor in Vero Beach after a brief illness. Mr. Cochrane was born April 3, 1912, in Norfolk, VA, and had been a resident of Vero Beach for the past 26 years, coming here from New York City. He ser
 FREYDBERG--Norman. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Norman Freydberg. Norman, and his late wife, Dorothy, had been members since 1937. Norman served on the Board of Governors from 1962 to 1968. On behalf
 HARRIS--David F., 84, of 352 Canaan Road, ''Fairfield'', Salisbury, CT, and Fishers Island, NY, died at home on the afternoon of October 21, 2004. He was the husband of Jane M. Harris. Mr. Harris was born in Geneva, NY on April 18, 1920, the son of the late Laura (Houghton) and Ieuan Harris
 LAVITT--Ed. Lover of language and life died Sunday, October 24, 2004. He has joined his beloved Marlene in that great cocktail party in the sky and is now definitely feeling no pain. This piece in The Times is for you, Ed.       
 LEDY--William A. Beloved husband of the late Susan. Adored father of David and Pia Ledy and Nancy LedyGurren. Devoted grandfather to Jordan and Cameron Ledy. A real estate investor and businessman, he will be remembered most for his warmth, humor and his unabiding love and respect for peopl
 LILLY--John R., 76, Financial Executive, of Greenwich, CT died October 19, 2004 at Greenwich Hospital. He died of cancer after a long illness with Parkinson's and Diabetes. Born August 15, 1928 in St. Paul, Minnesota, he was the son of the late Richard J. and Katherine Kaye Lilly of Lincoln
 MALLET--Harry. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends deep sympathy and heartfelt condolences to his wife Dorothy, dedicated vice chairman of our Board of Governors and patron Rhoda Miller, son Jerry, grandchildren, including senior vice president, Alan S. Miller, & great grandchildren. Hamakorn Yenach
 MORGAN--Jim, October 10, 2004. We will miss our gifted musical colleague, but are consoled in knowing his rolemodel lyrics live on. With admiration and affection, Norman Dolph, Davia Sacks, Sheilah Rae, Madeleine Stone, Sheila Davis       
 ROBBINS--Melvin Lloyd, on Monday. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Devoted father of Charles, Jessica and Howard. Adored grandfather of Benjamin, Michelle and Charlotte. Services Tuesday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. ROBBINS--Melvin Lloyd. Congregation Em
 SANDE--Joseph S. on October 25, 2004 of Garden City. Cherished husband of Rose. Loving father of Joseph and his wife Maryann, Dorothy and her husband Michael, Richard, Michael and his wife Ann. Devoted grandfather of ten and great grandfather of seven. Brother of Rose Ferrandino and the lat
 Robert Merrill, whose smooth, powerful baritone voice and vigorous interpretations helped make him a favorite singer at the Metropolitan Opera for 30 years, died at his home on Saturday. He was 87. He died, apparently of natural causes, while watching the first game of the World Ser
 Samuel L. Gravely Jr., the Navy's first black admiral and the first African-American to serve as a fleet commander, died on Friday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 82 and lived in Haymarket, Va. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his son, Dav
 Greg Shaw, a rock-music enthusiast, journalist and record label proprietor who was a major force in the spread of underground music and fanzine publishing since the mid-1960's, died on Oct. 19 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 55. The cause was heart failure, said Suzy Shaw, hi
 John Peel, a BBC radio disc jockey who was a champion of innovative and independent music for nearly four decades, died on Monday night in Cuzco, Peru. He was 65 and was a longtime resident of Great Finborough, England. The BBC reported that he had a heart attack while on vacation w
 Joseph Dorsey Jr., an African-American prizefighter whose suit challenging a Louisiana ban on integrated sports was upheld by the United States Supreme Court in 1959, died Oct. 20 in New Orleans, where he lived. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his wife, Evelyn, said. When M
 BARANDES--Max. The partners, associates and employees of Levy & Boonshoft, P.C. express their condolences to our counsel, Gerald Barandes, on the death of his father, Max. Max Barandes was an inspiration to all who knew him and those who were mentored by him.       
 BITTERMAN--Lenny. With profound sorrow, we will miss our lifetime friend, his generosity, his winning ways and his lust for life. He has enhanced our lives in untold ways. Our sincere condolences to his loving family, Cindy, Steffi, Michael and Brandon. Richard and Bobbi Waldinger Lenny and
 BLANCHARD--Joseph P., 59, a longtime member of the Wall Street community and resident of Port Washington, NY, passed away on Friday, October 22. He is survived by his wife, Akiko, and three children: Sara, Christopher, Andrew. A Memorial Service will be held Saturday, October 30 at 11 A.M. 
 JACOBS -- Joseph J. The Board of Trustees, administration, faculty, students and alumni of Polytechnic University mourn the passing of Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs, alumnus, generous benefactor and 1986 Honorary Doctorate of Engineering recipient of the University. He twice served as chairman of Po
 MALAMUD--Daniel I. On October 20, 2004 in Issaquah, WA. Loving and loved husband of Ann, father of Judy and Mark, father-in-law of Susan, and grandfather of Jasper. A caring psychotherapist and innovative teacher. His life was guided by an inner loving sweetness, though he often professed m
 MERRILL--Robert. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member and Honorary Officer, Robert Merrill. Robert was a consummate Friar who shared his gift of music with the world. He brought class and dignity to all Fr
 ROTHER--Harry, 80 years old, died on October 25, 2004. Beloved husband of Betty. Devoted father of Leslie and Jay Ginsburg and Vicki Rother Muraskin and father in-law of David Van Muraskin. Loved and cherished grandfather of Jill and Andrew Goldman, Dr. Elissa and Mitchell Levy, Brooke Mura
 SANDE--Joseph S. on October 25, 2004 of Garden City. Cherished husband of Rose. Loving father of Joseph and his wife Maryann, Dorothy and her husband Michael, Richard, Michael and his wife Ann. Devoted grandfather of ten and great grandfather of seven. Brother of Rose Ferrandino and the lat
 SEAVER--Charles H. Of Pebble Beach, CA. He was born July 14, 1911 and passed away October 25, 2004 at the age of 93. Private family services will be held to honor his memory. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the NCGA Foundation, P.O. Box 1157, Pebble Beach, CA 93953. 1-831-625-4
 DUKE--Terri Lynn (aka Linda Schimmel). Born October 27, 1955, Chicago with twin brother Ernest Duke. Do you know him? 212-787-0445       
 SAVAGE--David. October 27, 1989 Always remembered with love by his family.       
 Bobby Avila, the American League batting champion in 1954 when he played for the pennant-winning Cleveland Indians, and one of the first prominent Latin major leaguers in the decade after World War II, died Tuesday in Veracruz, Mexico. He was 78. The cause was complications of diabe
 George Silk, a longtime Life magazine photographer known for images that captured both the intimate drama of war and the raw dynamism of sport, died on Saturday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 87 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. 
 Joe Eula, an illustrator who caught the riotous curves of fashion from Dior's New Look in the 1940's until the end of Saint Laurent's reign, died yesterday in Kingston, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan and in Hurley, N.Y. He died after going into a hospital recently because of 
 BARANDES--Max. The Partners, Associates and Employees of Beckman Lieberman and Barandes LLP express their deepest sympathy to Robert Barandes, their Partner, on the death of his father Max. Max Barandes was known to us as a gentleman and most of all, a good father.       
 BODNER--Irwin W., October 25, 2004. Beloved husband of Rita, devoted father of Bruce (Marlene), Mark (Francesca) and Lane (Val); loving brother to Leila; also survived by six grandchildren and ten great-grandchildren. A man of modest origins, Irwin retired in 1980 as V.P. of The Internation
 FERNANDES -- Constantino ''Connie'' Agapito (formerly from Parra, Goa, India, and Nairobi, Kenya). Peacefully surrounded by family in Canada on Saturday, October 23, 2004. Connie, loving husband to Dorothy, father of Philomena, Xavier, Goretti and Fiona. He will be dearly missed by family a
 GOODMAN -- Sheldon. The Board of Directors and Staff of the JCC of Mid-Westchester are saddened by the loss of our longtime Board member, Sheldon Goodman. Sheldon was a passionate leader, who was devoted to the JCC. We extend our deepest sympathies to his entire family.       
 MALAMUD--Daniel I. On October 20, 2004 in Issaquah, WA. Loving and loved husband of Ann, father of Judy and Mark, father-in-law of Susan, and grandfather of Jasper. A caring psychotherapist and innovative teacher. His life was guided by an inner loving sweetness, though he often professed m
 MERRILL--Robert. On behalf of the Board of the Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation we mourn the passing of our generous supporter, Robert Merrill, and offer our deep condolences to his wonderful family. Evelyn and Herb Strauss       
 ROSEN--Lincoln, 89, died October 20, in Maplewood, NJ. Married for 61 years to his late beloved wife Dorothy, he leaves his children, Bob, Nan and Edward, his grandchildren Jonathan, Melissa, Claire, Lillie, Charlotte and Camille, and his great-grandchildren, Cameron and Spencer. He was gra
 SOBOLOFF--Arnold. Nov. 11, 1930--Oct. 28, 1979. He showed me how to whistle Suzann       
 Lester Lanin, who, from the White House to Buckingham Palace, from the Plaza Hotel to the grand ballrooms of the Vanderbilts and the Rockefellers, epitomized a rarefied and perhaps fading species -- the society bandleader -- died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97. His
 DONINGER--William. Delaire Country Club announces with deep sorrow the passing of their esteemed member William Doninger, and extends their sincerest sympathy to his beloved family. Jack Lipsey, President       
 HUI--Robert M., M.D., 84, died October 27, 2004. Professor Emeritus of Clinical Otolaryngology and former Chairman of the Department of Otolaryngology at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University and Chief of the Service of Otolaryngology at the Columbia Presbyterian Medic
 KLARFELD--Neil C. Most wonderful husband and father, died with dignity and grace at home with his loved ones around him. A leader in the real estate industry, Neil was a quiet giant known for his integrity and talent as much as his great success. He was a gentle man who had much to brag abo
 MALAMUD--Daniel I. On October 20, 2004 in Issaquah, WA. Loving and loved husband of Ann, father of Judy and Mark, father-in-law of Susan, and grandfather of Jasper. A caring psychotherapist and innovative teacher. His life was guided by an inner loving sweetness, though he often professed m
 POLLINGER -- Stanley, age 82, on October 28. Beloved husband of Rita, loving father of Lisa and Jonathan Heller, Andrea and Michael Bruno and Richard and Heather Pollinger, devoted brother to Sonia Gorman, also survived by eight grandchildren. He will be deeply missed by family and friends.
 Billy Jim Layton, an innovative American composer of the 1950's and 60's who was well known in his prime but abruptly stopped composing and concentrated on academic pursuits, died on Saturday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 79. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his daughter,
 Charles H. Stein, whose company built Six Flags Great Adventure in Jackson, N.J., and operated well-known restaurants like Tavern on the Green and Maxwell's Plum in Manhattan, died on Oct. 10 in Miami Beach. He was 76 and lived in Miami Beach. The cause was respiratory failure, said
 Edward T. Cone, a musicologist, composer and pianist associated with Princeton University for many years, died on Saturday in Princeton, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Princeton. The cause was complications of open-heart surgery he had last month, his companion, George Pitcher, said.  
 John W. Finney, a senior correspondent and editor in the Washington bureau of The New York Times for 30 years who wrote extensively about nuclear proliferation, military policy and the Vietnam War, died Friday at the Washington Home Hospice. He was 80. The cause was prostate cancer,
 BRENNAN--Joseph G. on Thursday, October 28, of Stony Brook, LI. Professor emeritus of philosophy at Barnard College and instructor at the Naval War College, Newport, RI. Predeceased by his loving wife, Mary nee McLeod. Beloved father of Peter (Sheila), of Estes Park, CO; Colin (April) of Co
 BURDE--Eli. On October 28, 2004 in Sarasota, FL. Noted raconteur, hotelier and successful entrepreneur, formerly of Stratford, CT. Born May 19, 1914 in Grodno, Poland. Survived by his devoted, loving wife of 69 years, Helene; son Ronald M. Burde, M.D., daughter - in - law Sharon, daughter B
 EULA--Joe. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Glimmerglass Opera mourn the passing of our dear friend, Joe Eula, an icon in the fashion industry, and send our heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends.       
 FREDERIKSEN--Frank G., 78, of New Canaan, CT died Thursday, October 28th, 2004 at Norwalk Hospital. Born March 3rd, 1926 in NYC. He was the son of the late Axel and Olga Johanson Frederiksen. He was a veteran of WWII having served with the Army Air Corp. Mr. Frederiksen graduated from Muhle
 HUI--Robert M., M.D., 84, died October 27, 2004. Professor Emeritus of Clinical Otolaryngology and former Chairman of the Department of Otolaryngology at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University and Chief of the Service of Otolaryngology at the Columbia Presbyterian Medic
 MALAKOFF--Arnold M. on October 28, 2004. Beloved husband of Jane. Loving father of Philip and Stacey, Stuart and Elyssa, Karen and Bret Herman. Adoring grandfather of Schuyler, A.J., Alexa, Aubrey, Allie, Teagan, Nicole and Jesse. Funeral service Sunday, October 31 at 12:45PM at Temple Isra
 PAINE--Peter S. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Nature Conservancy of New York State note with sadness the death yesterday of Peter S. Paine in Willsboro, NY. He was born in the Adirondacks where he and his family created an extraordinary legacy as advocates for its conservation and 
 POLLINGER -- Stanley, age 82, on October 28. Beloved husband of Rita, loving father of Lisa and Jonathan Heller, Andrea and Michael Bruno and Richard and Heather Pollinger, devoted brother to Sonia Gorman, also survived by eight grandchildren. He will be deeply missed by family and friends.
 Vaughn Meader, a stand-up comic who attained instant celebrity in 1962 with his record ''The First Family,'' a flawless spoof of President John F. Kennedy and his entourage, but who became, as he ruefully called himself, ''a living reminder of tragedy'' one year later, died yesterday at his
 Gene R. Hawes, who wrote more than 30 widely used books to help people manage their health, education and careers, died on Sept. 4 at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Mark, in announcing the death last week. A former editor for the Co
 James A. Rousmaniere, a socially prominent yachtsman and professional fund-raiser, died Oct. 22 in Southbury, Conn. He was 86. A longtime resident of Oyster Bay, N.Y., he lived in Southbury. Mr. Rousmaniere (pronounced roo-man-EER) died six days after having a stroke, his family sai
 Neil A. Campbell, a botanist and an educator who wrote college biology textbooks that sold in the millions and became popular in high school honors courses, died on Oct. 21 at a hospital in Redlands, Calif. He was 58. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Allison Campbell 
 CONE--Edward T. We mourn the passing of a giant in the field of music. His body of work and thoughtful support made a difference to many. Kaufman Center/ Merkin Concert Hall Lydia Kontos, Exec. Dir. Elaine Kaufman, Chairman       
 ELSTEIN--Bernard J. Always cheerful, he died peacefully on October 23rd at age 95. He taught economics and history at Abraham Lincoln High School for over 40 years and served as Teacher-in-Charge of New Utrecht Summer High School. Always deeply committed to reading, he served as President o
 HEINE--Leonard M., Jr., passed away peacefully on October 28th in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Sandy Heine. Loving brother of Robert Heine. Adored father of Michael Heine, Nancy Heine Moskowitz, Thomas Heine and Chris Altman Heine. Cherished grandfather of Lauren, Alexandra, Morgan, J
 KLARFELD--Neil. The executives and staff of Park Tower Group mourn the loss of our friend and colleague. Neil's vision, integrity and skill contributed significantly to our success and he was a respected and valued member of our company for twenty years. His passing will leave a great void 
 NADELL--Irving, 79 last Monday. Beloved husband of Florence for 59 years. Cherished father of Suanne, Ellen and Vicki. Devoted father-inlaw of Jeff, Steve and Bruce. Proud grandfather of Marisa, Alex, Alycia, Jason, Matthew and Benjamin. A man of unparalleled loyalty and devotion to his fam
 POLLINGER -- Stanley, age 82, on October 28. Beloved husband of Rita, loving father of Lisa and Jonathan Heller, Andrea and Michael Bruno and Richard and Heather Pollinger, devoted brother to Sonia Gorman, also survived by eight grandchildren. He will be deeply missed by family and friends.
 SCHAPIRO--Louis. October 28, 2004. 85 years old. Much beloved husband of Pearl for 64 years; father of Richard (Lois) & Ira (Karen) and beloved grandfather of Lee, Eric, Craig, Sara and Jason; beloved great grandfather of six. He was a wonderful man and a very important part of all our live
 SHECHTMAN--Michael, M.D. 85, on October 29. Beloved companion of Rhoda Hardy. Husband of the late Gloria Shechtman. Father of Roberta and David Needham and William Shechtman, DDS. Grandfather of Cindy and Tracy Needham. Brother of Joseph Shechtman, M.D. May his soul rest in peace. Services 
 WASSER--Joseph. The longest serving Sheriff in the history of Sullivan County, passed away on Thursday in Goshen, New York. He was 83 years old. Mr. Wasser is survived by one son, Martin, of Manhattan; a daughter, Ellen Golnick, of Monticello; a granddaughter, Laurie Guggimati; and great-gr
 WEISSLER--Irving. On October 30, 2004 at age 97. Beloved husband of the late Gladys. Loving brother of Frances and the late Manny. Devoted uncle of Elizabeth, Linda and Amy. Caring step dad of Rachel and Cyrus. Longtime active and influential member in the Jewish Community and great friend 
