 Dr. Alvin Novick, a Yale biologist who closed his laboratory in 1982 and curtailed his 25-year study of the sonar systems of bats to confront a widening international health crisis brought on by AIDS, died on April 10 at Yale University Health Services in New Haven. He was 79. The c
 Mel Gussow, the longtime critic and cultural reporter for The New York Times who championed the work of many of the major playwrights of the post World War II period, including Harold Pinter, Edward Albee and Tom Stoppard, died Friday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 71 and lived i
 AFROMSKY--Herbert. Age 85. Died April 26. He was a W.W. II pilot and avid tennis player. He is survived by his wife Claire, children Neil, Ellen and Jay, grandchildren Ryan, Leah, Matthew, Robert and Allie and sister, Rita. A celebration of his life will be held in Somers at a future date. 
 ANDERSON--Herman Howard (Andy), age 84, died April 14, 2005 in New York at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was a veteran of WW II stationed in the South Pacific. After discharge he returned home to finish college. He moved to New York and was employed by American Airlines until his retirement. He i
 CONNICK--Louis, 83, on April 28, 2005 in Old Lyme, CT. Survived by his brother Peter Connick and many nieces and nephews in the Brooks, Connick and Keogh families. Predeceased by his wife Catherine M. He graduated from the Hotchkiss School and Yale University and attended Cambridge Universi
 FESLER -- James William, Alfred Cowles Professor of Government Emeritus at Yale University, died April 26 in Branford, CT. He was 94. A graduate of the University of Minnesota, he received his doctorate from Harvard. After 16 years at the University of North Carolina (Chapel Hill), in 1951 
 FISHER--Dr. Michael H. Merck Distinguished Senior Scientist, died April 20, 2005 at the age of 79, in Grenada. Dr. Fisher joined Merck & Co., Inc. in 1957. During Dr. Fisher's distinguished 47 years at Merck, he had been associated with numerous successful programs, but he was always partic
 GREEN--James Wilder. Former Director of the American Federation of Arts, died on April 27, 2005 at the age of 78 after a long illness. Mr. Green was born in Paris. He studied architecture at Yale with Louis Kahn and worked for Paul Rudolph in Florida and Philip Johnson in NY. In 1956, he be
 KRUSKAL--William H., 85, of Chicago. Died on April 21, 2005. Ernest DeWitt Burton Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus in Statistics at the University of Chicago. His survivors include sons Vincent, Tom, and Jody; grandchildren Lily, Peter, Michael, Eliott, and Zachary; siblings Rosaly,
 MANDELL -- Edward. Ed gently took his leave on Tuesday, April 26th, one day shy of his 86th birthday. He lived in New York City and was a partner and creative director of Richard and Edwards advertising agency. He was the recipient of his industry's highest awards the Clio and the ''Andy''.
 MARGULIES--Edmund M., 97, April 27. Beloved husband of the late Sima, adored father of Marie (Sam) Ellias and Sharon, grandfather of Lydia, Jillian, Stephen. His devotion, brilliance and fortitude inspire us. Services private.       
 MATTES -- Benjamin. Be loved husband of Lillian. Loving father of Fred (Barbara), Sandi (Joddy) and Walter. Dear brother of Ruth Eisert and Thelma Damast. Adoring grandfather of Stephanie, Jared and Gabe. He will be deeply missed. Funeral services Monday, 12 noon, at Sinai Chapels, 162-05 H
 MICHAELOFF--Martin E. On April 28, 2005, in Lake Worth, FL. Loving husband for 46 years of Maxine. Devoted father of Scott (Lisa) and Gregg. Adored grandfather of Samantha and Madison. Cherished brother of Steven (Elaine) and the late Norman (survived by Eleanore). He was a CPA in the metro
 OWRUTZKY--Martin, a.k.a. Marty Arret, died Wednesday, April 27. Survived by his loving family: wife Patti, son Alan, grandson Joseph. He left this world a better place. Visitation will be Sunday, May 1st 5-9 PM; services will be held May 2, Monday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street 
 POOL -- John L., M.D. 1907-2005, Wilton, CT. Formerly of NYC. Graduated from St. Paul's, Princeton University, Columbia, M.D. '34. Thoracic surgeon in NYC, 1936-72. Many hospitals from Memorial-Sloan Kettering to Knickerbocker and others, the Tata Cancer Hospital, 1939-42 in Mumbia, India. 
 RABINOWITZ--Wilbur M. On April 29, 2005, in the presence of his loving wife Audrey, at NY University Hospital. He is survived by his son Michael Rabinowitz and wife Diane, grandson Noah Rabinowitz and wife Suzanne, and his sister Selma Lauter. Mr. Rabinowitz received a Doctorate of Law from
 ROSENBLUTH--Emanuel, 91, of Southbury, CT died April 25, 2005. He was the beloved husband of Myra J. (Popper) Rosenbluth, cherished father of Eva Jean Henneberg and brother to Sylvia and Gideon, pre-deceased by sister, Caroline. He was a teacher for the City of New York for 30 years.       
 SLOAN -- Stephen. Passed Thursday, April 28, 2005. Born in New York City June 21, 1932. Adored and adoring husband of Nannette (Nancy) Sloan, treasured father of Suzanne Sloan Doyle (Kieran) and Robert Sloan (Elizabeth), loving Grandpa to Stephen Samuel Sloan II and Theodore Robert. Interna
 WOODS--Henry C., Jr., age 84, died Thursday at the Medical Center at Princeton of Cancer after a brief hospitalization. He served his country flying for the U.S. Navy during WWII, and taught English for 35 years at The Lawrenceville School. Mr. Woods is survived by his wife Jane Cheney Wood
 ZIMMERMAN--James J., 79, on April 27, 2005, of Hampton Bays, N.Y. Beloved husband of Sarah. Proud father of Stacy Anne Henderson, James J. Jr., Hilarie Page, the late Mary Ashley, Scott Charles and Charles Richard Lenz. He served in the U.S. Navy in WW II and the Korean War. A graduate of H
 Robert Farnon, a composer and arranger who was a leading figure in the once-popular genre of light orchestral music, died on April 23 on Guernsey, in the British Channel Islands. He was 87 and had been a longtime resident of Guernsey. His death was announced by David Ades, a friend 
 Willard Clyde Mackey Jr., a former chief executive of McCann Erickson Worldwide who helped build it into one of advertising's foremost powerhouses, died on April 16 in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Vero Beach and New Canaan, Conn. The death was announced by Eugene H. Kumme
 Kenneth B. Clark, the psychologist and educator whose 1950 report showing the destructive effect of school segregation influenced the United States Supreme Court to hold school segregation to be unconstitutional, died yesterday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 90. His 
 GUSSOW--Mel. We mourn the loss of our fellow member and an outstanding prescence on our Board of Directors. Author, journalist, critic and a truly distinguished and influential Man of the Theater, his contributions to the cultural life of New York have been enormous. He will be sorely misse
 MAIZNER--Murray ''Moe.'' The last of the four sons of Sarah and Adolph Maizner, died on April 30, 2005, at 97 years of age, peacefully with ''no regrets; it's been a great run.'' Born April 16, 1908, his life embodied the American story of the 20th century. The child of immigrants, he had t
 MATTES -- Benjamin. Be loved husband of Lillian. Loving father of Fred (Barbara), Sandi (Joddy) and Walter. Dear brother of Ruth Eisert and Thelma Damast. Adoring grandfather of Stephanie, Jared and Gabe. He will be deeply missed. Funeral services Monday, 12 noon, at Sinai Chapels, 162-05 H
 MICHAELOFF--Martin E. On April 28, 2005, in Lake Worth, FL. Loving husband for 46 years of Maxine. Devoted father of Scott (Lisa) and Gregg. Adored grandfather of Samantha and Madison. Cherished brother of Steven (Elaine) and the late Norman (survived by Eleanore). He was a CPA in the metro
 NEUBAUER--Harold Bradlee. Died peacefully April 20, 2005. Beloved uncle, brother and friend. He is survived by his sisters Jane Gay Neubauer of Providence, RI, and Brenda Neubauer Straus of New York City and Palm Beach Gardens, FL, and by his many loving nieces, nephews, grandnieces and gra
 PAPE--Irving E. Passed away on April 30, 2005, in Hackensack, NJ, surrounded by his loving family. He died as he lived, with dignity, a fighter to the last. He leaves behind his cherished wife of 57 years Doris (Subin); three sons, Stuart and his wife Ginger of Washington, DC, Howard and hi
 SLOAN--Stephen. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and neighbor of many years, Stephen Sloan. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Nancy and wonderful children, Robert and Suzanne. He was a man to be admired for his sincerity, honesty, optimism and courage. Robert and Gladys
 TERZIAN--George Anthony. On April 30, 2005. Beloved father of Sandra Terzian Clitter. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call on Tuesday, May 3, 7-9 pm, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Funeral services Wednesday, 9:30 am, at Frank E. Camp
 BUDICK--Dr. Harry. Age 97. Died May 1 in Jerusalem, Israel. As an optometrist, he was devoted to improving the vision of others. As a dedicated Zionist, he was a visionary who inspired all who knew him. Husband of the late Sylvia, he is survived by his beloved sons Sanford, Arthur and Burto
 CLARK--Kenneth B. The American Civil Liberties Union, its officers, Board of Directors and staff deeply mourn the passing of a principled, influential and pioneering leader on civil liberties. Dr. Clark was 90. The US Supreme Court cited his study on the effects of racial discrimination as 
 GOLDBERG--Murray L. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Suzanne & Heather (Kailia). Cherished grandfather of Kesar. Loving brother of Beatrice Gross. Partner at Marks, Paneth and Shron, CPA, tax attorney, avid fisherman, bridge player and animal lover. Services Tuesday 10AM at Riv
 GREEN--James Wilder. Former Director of the American Federation of Arts, died on April 27, 2005 at the age of 78 after a long illness. Mr. Green was born in Paris. He studied architecture at Yale with Louis Kahn and worked for Paul Rudolph in Florida and Philip Johnson in NY. In 1956, he be
 LaGAMBINA--Joseph S. The Trustees of the Financial Accounting Foundation, the members of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, and the staff mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Joe LaGambina. Joe was the executive vice 
 RASHBAUM--William K. The Board, Council and staff of Planned Parenthood of New York City (PPNYC) mourn the death of Dr. William Rashbaum. Dr. Rashbaum was a member of the PPNYC Board of Directors from 1969 to 1994. He was made an Honorary Board Member in 1994 and continued to serve on PPNYC
 SAVITSKY--Elias, MD, age 90, was a psychiatrist in New York City & Stamford, CT until age 85. He is survived by his wife Helen, his daughter Joan, a son Richard. Donations to the Jewish Home & Hospital (100 W. Kingsbridge Road, Bronx, NY 10468) where he practiced geriatric psychiatry for 45
 SCHWARTZ -- Lawrence, M.D. Beloved husband of Puah and father of Gil and Ethan. A humane and learned physician who cared deeply for his patients as he cared for his own family. A proud City College graduate, he revered science and history, loved his country in whose army he served, and his 
 SLOAN--Stephen. The Board of Trustees and staff of the International Game Fish Association (IGFA) extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Stephen Sloan. IGFA Board Member for 20 years, Stephen's dedication and contributions to the IGFA and to fishing and marine conservation, will ne
 STEVENSON--William. Age 87. Died April 29 at home in Manhattan. Born and raised in Freeport, Long Island, N.Y., he was husband to Luzena Firth for 44 years. Residing in Massapequa, N.Y. for 50 years. Military service included being an Army Paratrooper in France during WWII and an Army Major
 TOWNSEND--Paul. Friends and supporters of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System are deeply saddened by Saturday's passing of Paul Townsend of Bellport, New York. A life Trustee of the Northshore-LIJ Health System, Mr. Townsend was one of the founders of North Shore Universi
 WARBURG--Joseph H. Age 93, beloved husband of Ilse for sixty years, cherished father of Ronnie (Resa), Joan (Nathan), David (Chaye), and brother Ralph, very much loved by twelve grandchildren and ten great grandchildren. He will be deeply missed and will always be alive in our hearts.      
 O'CONNOR--John Cardinal On this the fifth anniversary of the Cardinal's death, he continues to be in our prayers and memories. His leadership and inspiring homilies are missed. Margaret Mary McDermott       
 William K. Rashbaum, a prominent New York obstetrician and gynecologist who was a longtime advocate of abortion rights, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian/Columbia in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan and Cornwall, Conn. The cause was complications of lung cancer, sai
 Dr. Edward J. Schantz, a biochemist who studied the deadly neurotoxins produced by shellfish and other organisms, first for the toxins' military potential and later for their broader medical benefits, including cosmetic treatments that led to Botox, died on April 28 at an extended-care cent
 Edward von Kloberg III, a flamboyant lobbyist here who maintained a high-profile client roster that could easily be found in his Rolodex under ''d,'' for dictator, died on Sunday in Rome. He was 63. Mr. von Kloberg, whose death was classified a suicide, apparently leapt from the par
 Jack Nichols, a writer and early gay activist who campaigned publicly for gay rights nearly a decade before the Stonewall riots of 1969, died on Monday in Cocoa Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 67. The cause was complications of cancer, from which Mr. Nichols had suffered intermi
 ALLEN--Casey Arthur, born April 25, 1916, died April 28, 2005. Actor, announcer, director, writer, photographer, teacher. Graduate of the Pasadena Playhouse 1937. Husband of Fran Carlon (deceased). Longtime volunteer at the International Center in New York. Survived by his daughter, Kerry A
 CLARK--Kenneth B., Phd. Passed away on May 1, 2005, after a long illness. He leaves behind his son, Hilton B. Clark, his daughter, Kate C. Harris, his three grandchildren, Scott K. Harris, Natalie B. Thompson, and Andrea K. Harris, and his five great grandchildren, Myles, Paige, and Chase T
 GOTTESMAN--Milton. SAR Academy-SAR High School wishes to extend its condolences to David S. Gottesman on the loss of his beloved brother. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President       
 GREEN--James Wilder. The trustees and staff of the American Federation of Arts are deeply saddened by the loss of its former director, Wilder Green. His leadership and accomplishments at the AFA will always be remembered. His intelligence, creativity, generosity and friendship will be great
 GREENBERG--David, passed away on April 30 at age 86. Beloved husband of Caroline; devoted father of Martha and Robert; adoring grandfather of Rachel, Julia and Alex; loving father-in-law of Linda. David graduated from Columbia University and, after studying medicine, he worked on the Manhat
 KARASZ--Peter. The partners, associates, counsel and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP express profound sorrow at the death of Peter Karasz, beloved husband of our friend and partner, Marilyn Sobel. We express our deepest sympathies to Marilyn and the childre
 RASHBAUM--William K., M.D. It is with deep sadness that we learn of the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend William K. Rashbaum, M.D. His service and contributions to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Women's Health, as an edu
 ROSENTHAL--Milton F., age 91, died May 2, 2005. Beloved husband of 62 years of Frieda (nee Bojar). Cherished son of the late Jacob and Louise Rosenthal. Devoted father of Anne (Peter) Mitro of Moreland Hills, Ohio; grandfather to Daniel and Roger. Loving brother of the late Alexander Rosent
 SANDS--Dr. Arnold E., 78, of Boca Raton, FL formerly of Bethpage, NY, passed away May 1, 2005. Beloved husband of Edith Sands. Loving father of Dr. Deborah (Richard) Lubell, Dr. Steven (Lisa) Sands, and Jonathan (Deborah Seife) Sands. Loving grandfather of Jennifer, Heather, Dana, and Jorda
 SAVITSKY--Elias, M.D. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home & Hospital Lifecare System mourn the passing of Dr. Elias Savitsky, a respected geriatric psychiatrist, who served at the System's Bronx division for 45 years. He will be missed by those who were privileged
 THOMAS -- Jonathan. The friends and colleagues of Edward Albee, mourn the death of his beloved life-partner, Jonathan Thomas on May 2. One of life's truly beautiful souls, Jonathan will be missed by all who enjoyed his charm, wit, and sweet smile. Condolences from Mr. Albee's theater family
 CITRIN--Hillary. Hillary, it has been several years since last I wrote and I would like to let you know what has gone on in our family since then. Your nephew Ethan still has a heart of gold but now it is in the body of a young man. He is handsome and smart and beautiful as you were. Your n
 BLAKE--Frederick H. Jr., on May 3, 2005. Husband of the late Lois Catherine Robinson. Previously deceased are his parents Helen Avery and Frederick H. Blake. Also deceased are his brothers Avery B. Walker, Charles A. Blake, and Dexter B. Blake. Surviving are four generations of nieces and n
 CLONEY--Rev. Robert Dennis, S.J. Beloved brother of Thomas F. Cloney, Jr. (Camillia), Gerard P. Cloney (Annette), and Cathleen C. McGoldrick (John). Also survived by many loving nieces, nephews & cousins. Lovingly remembered by his Jesuit brothers and the faculty and students at Fordham Uni
 HANNIGAN--John J., 85, of Lititz, PA, passed away on May 4, 2005. Born in New York City, NY, he formerly resided in Manhattan, Manhasset, Long Island and Honeybrook, PA. He was a member of St. James Catholic Church, Lititz, PA. John was a veteran of WW II, serving with the U.S. Army, 14th D
 KARASZ--Peter. The partners and staff of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP mourn the passing of our partner, managing partner and friend Peter Karasz. He led our firm with courage, energy and vision. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Marilyn, his children Alexandra, Andrew, M
 LAX--George P., Attorney at Law, died on April 28th, 2005, in Miami, FL, of complications from pneumonia. He was 70. A graduate of New York University, he received his J.D. from New York Law School. George lived life to its fullest. He leaves his wife, Gunilla; his son, Peter; his daughter,
 PIVNICK--Harold. The Officers, Owners and Staff of Rentar Development Corp. are deeply saddened by the passing of our former executive, Harold Pivnick, beloved husband of the late Leila, beloved father of Susan and Nancy, and beloved grandfather of Olivia and Nicholas. We have not only lost
 RASHBAUM--William K., M.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes with great sadness the passing of our esteemed, long-time colleague. As a faculty member, clinician and mentor, he touched the lives of countless medical students and physicians-intraining. We ext
 ROSENTHAL--Milton F., age 91, died May 2, 2005. Beloved husband of 62 years of Frieda (nee Bojar). Cherished son of the late Jacob and Louise Rosenthal. Devoted father of Anne (Peter) Mitro of Moreland Hills, Ohio; grandfather to Daniel and Roger. Loving brother of the late Alexander Rosent
 Peter Bramley, the first art director of the National Lampoon magazine, editor of humor magazines and creator of absurd underground comics, died on April 12 in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 60. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Nano Riley. In 1967 Mr. Bramley joined Bill
 Stephen Sloan, a Manhattan real-estate developer, marine conservationist and champion angler, died on April 28 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Sloan was a former partner in Lehman Brothers, and since then head of Step
 David H. Hackworth, a much-decorated and highly unconventional former career Army officer who became a combat legend in Vietnam, then enraged his superiors by lambasting the war on national television, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Tijuana, Mexico. He was 74. The cause was blad
 Jonathan Thomas, a sculptor who exhibited widely in North America, died on Monday at his home in New York. He was 59. The cause was bladder cancer, said his partner, the playwright Edward Albee. Mr. Thomas worked in wood, wood pulp, polymer resin and steel to create a series
 ADAMETZ--John J. of Delray Beach, Florida, formerly of Queens, New York. 80 years of age passed away April 30, 2005. Survived by his wife, Joan, two sons Anthony (Elaine) DiFalco & Nicholas (Margaret) DiFalco. A Memorial Mass was held May 4, 2005 in Florida.       
 BILECK--Marvin (b. 1920). With sadness we mark the death of Buddy on April 29. His remarkable, energetic and generous spirit lives on through his art, his books and the many lives that he so deeply touched. Our condolences to his wife Emily. A reception will be held at the gallery for the o
 BLAKE--Frederick H. Jr., on May 3, 2005. Husband of the late Lois Catherine Robinson. Previously deceased are his parents, Helen Avery and Frederick H. Blake. Also deceased are his sister, Avery B. Walker, and two brothers, Charles A. Blake and Dexter B. Blake. Surviving are four generation
 CLONEY--Rev. Robert Dennis, S.J. Beloved brother of Thomas F. Cloney, Jr. (Camillia), Gerard P. Cloney (Annette), and Cathleen C. McGoldrick (John). Also survived by many loving nieces, nephews & cousins. Lovingly remembered by his Jesuit brothers and the faculty and students at Fordham Uni
 FINK--Austin. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Austin Fink, M.D., former Professor of Ophthalmology and a world-renowned physician. Dr. Fink was among the first to describe the electron microscopy of the anterior chamber angle in glaucoma. He also conducted 
 HERMAN--Kenneth I., at 86, died on Thursday, May 5 in his home at the Fellowship Community, Spring Valley, NY. A longtime resident of Pomona, he leaves his loving family, wife Laurette, children Jane and Jack and granddaughter Chelsea.       
 KARASZ--Peter. The partners and staff of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP mourn the passing of our partner, managing partner and friend Peter Karasz. He led our firm with courage, energy and vision. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Marilyn, his children Alexandra, Andrew, M
 KOZIEL--John. It is with deep sorrow that friends and colleagues at The New York Times acknowledge the passing of John Koziel on April 28 in Florida. John will be remembered as an avid golfer, a quick wit, and an eager worker. He was a dedicated employee of The Times for 34 years before ret
 MacFARLANE--Dr. Richard D. Born March 23, 1930 in Niagara Falls, NY. Took his leave at the age of 75 in the morning hours of May 2nd after sixteen years with a transplanted heart. He spent his time on the beach in FL and having fun with friends and family in NYC. He was a distinguished educ
 MARKEL--Kenneth E. On Thursday, May 5, 2005 of Bethesda, MD. Beloved husband of Iris M. Markel. Devoted father of Matthew, Ally and Kevin Markel. Loving son of Edith and Carl Markel. Dear brother of Jeff (Carol) Markel. Adored son-in-law of Arlene Kaufman. Funeral services will be held Frid
 MILSOM--Denis R. on May 5, 2005. He was a partner in Shen, Milsom, Wilke Consulting Engineers, NYC. Surviving are his wife Barbara, son Scott Milsom, daughter Laurie (Douglas) Adams, stepdaughters Deirdre and Colleen Birnstiel, grandson Christopher Adams, mother Ruby Milsom, two brothers Ba
 NORRIS--The Rev. Dr. Richard A. Jr. Noted theologian, priest and educator in the Episcopal Church, died at home on Saturday, April 23. He was 75. Ordained a priest in the Diocese of New York in 1955, he was a graduate of The General Theological Seminary, where he served on the faculty from 
 POKART--Joseph. Age 95, died May 4, 2005 on the birthday of his beloved late wife of 60 years, Billie Pokart. Loving father of Steve and Sam; father-in-law of Nurit. Grandfather of Rebekah, Tom and Sarah. Salutatorian St. John's Law School, 1934; distinguished lawyer everafter. Will be cher
 RADLER--Rabbi Evan C., 42, spiritual leader of Hillcrest Jewish Center, died suddenly late Sunday night. His funeral took place at the synagogue Tuesday. Burial was at New Montefiore Cemetery. Rabbi Radler who grew up in the New York area was ordained at Yeshiva University. The rabbi was an
 THOMAS--Jonathan. Loyal friend, keen wit, fine artist, courageous spirit, life partner of Edward Albee for 35 years, died on Monday May 2nd. He leaves a wide gap in the hearts and lives of his friends. Joanna Steichen Mia Westerlund-Roosen       
 Dr. Robert N. Colwell, a forester and specialist in remote sensing who helped adapt the military's aerial image-reading techniques to forestry, mapmaking, land planning, agriculture and other fields, died on April 14 in a hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 87 and lived in Walnut Creek.
 Herb Sargent, a veteran television comedy writer who helped the fledgling Not Ready for Prime Time Players make ''Saturday Night Live'' a hit with skits like ''Weekend Update,'' its long-running news parody, died yesterday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 81. The cause was a heart at
 Leonid Shamkovich, a Russian-born chess grandmaster who became one of the Soviet Union's first elite players allowed to emigrate, died on April 22 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 81. The cause was complications of cancer and Parkinson's disease, said his son, Andrei. In 1972
 DePAUW -- Fr. Gommar, Founder-President of the Catholic Traditionalist Movement and US Citizen, was born October 11, 1918 in Stekene, Belgium to a distinguished family which included early American settlers. At the outbreak of WWII he fought as a combat medic and was taken prisoner at the b
 HIRSCH--George. The officers, staff, participants, members and friends of AHRC, convey their deepest condolences to the family of George Hirsch. Having served as a member of the Board of Directors, Chairman of a range of committees with particular focus on matters of finance, George was for
 KARASZ--Peter. The partners and staff of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP mourn the passing of our partner, managing partner and friend Peter Karasz. He led our firm with courage, energy and vision. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Marilyn, his children Alexandra, Andrew, M
 PRESENT -- Theodore, 81 years old, passed away on May 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Blanche. Devoted father of Rhonda and Steven Smallowitz, Andrea and Peter Bernard and Michael and Iris Present. Cherished grandfather of Eric, Ross, Gregg, Lauren, Stephanie and Phoebe. Services Sunday, 10 AM 
 ROSENTHAL--Milton F. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Brooklyn Museum record with deepest sorrow the passing of our longtime friend, and extend deepest sympathy to his family. Robert S. Rubin, Chair Arnold Lehman, Director       
 SAPERY--Stanley Louis. On May 6 after a courageous battle. Sandy was the adored and devoted husband of Jane. Loving and beloved father of David and Michael. Dear brother of Beth, fatherin-law of Fern, brother-in-law of Louis. Loved and respected by his wife, sons and all who knew him. Servi
 UNGER--Simon. The Jewish Community Center of West Hempstead deeply mourns the loss of Simon Unger, a beloved Past President. We extend our condolences to his wife, Rosalyn, and to his loving family. David Weiss, President Rabbi Art Vernon Cantor Todd Rosner       
 WALL--Irving E. The Board of the Directors of the Shubert Foundation mourns the passing of their esteemed Director, Irving E. Wall. Mr. Wall's membership on the Board endured in excess of 33 years. His wisdom and support greatly contributed to the preservation of the American Theatre. We ex
 YANUCK--Sherman on May 4, 2005, peacefully at home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL, formerly of Huntington, L.I. Beloved and loving husband of Anita and the late Lyn. He will be missed by his adoring children Bob and Robin, Beth and Jerry, Scott and Barbara; stepchildren Andrew and Elizabeth, Jud
 Robert Slutzky, a painter, writer and educator whose lifelong exploration of the connection between painting and architecture influenced a generation of postwar architects, died on Tuesday in Abington, Pa. He was 75 and lived in Elkins Park, Pa. The cause was complications of amyotr
 Ted F. Atkinson, a member of horse racing's Hall of Fame and the first jockey to win more than $1 million in purses in a season, died Thursday at his home in Beaver Dam, Va. He was 88. Atkinson's death followed a lengthy illness, his daughter, Cathie Metzler, said Friday. At
 Bob Schiffer, a celebrated Hollywood makeup artist who spent nearly 70 years turning men into monsters and beautiful women into breathtakingly beautiful women, died on April 26 in Los Angeles. He was 88. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Douglas. A speci
 Dr. Eugene W. Friedman, former chief of head and neck surgery at Mount Sinai Medical Center, died there on April 18. He was 86 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Friedman, who was about to take emerit
 Peter W. Rodino Jr., an obscure congressman from the streets of Newark who impressed the nation by the dignity, fairness and firmness he showed as chairman of the impeachment hearings that induced Richard M. Nixon to resign as president, died yesterday at his home in West Orange, N.J.. He w
 Nathaniel Weyl, a writer and economist who was best known for the minor role he played in the Alger Hiss spy case, died on April 13 at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 94. Mr. Weyl died of natural causes, said his stepdaughter Georgianne Cowan. One of a type of midcentury Ame
 BERRY--Loren C. Lawyer, died at his home in Hilton Head S.C. on May 3, 2005 at the age of 93. He was the son of Gordon Lockwood and Katharine Dwight Berry. He graduated from the Choate School, Yale University (AB cum laude 1934), and Columbia University Law School, 1938. He became a member 
 BLANK--Isaac ''Chick.'' At 94, in Lauderhill, FL. Survived by wife Mildred, daughters Ann and Madeline and husband Phil; granddaughters Elana and Alexa; sisters Jean and Leah, brother Larry, Marcy, and beloved extended family. He will live in our hearts. Service Riverside, West 76 St., NYC,
 DANNENBERG -- Gerald. Dear husband, loving father and grandfather, died Friday, May 6. The family invites friends and relatives to remember him at their home in Great Neck.       
 GREEN--James Wilder. The Board of Directors, Artists and staff of The MacDowell Colony mourn the loss of our close friend James Wilder Green. Wilder's passion for the arts and his wise counsel made him a valued member of our board for 25 years. He will be deeply missed by all of us. We exte
 HIRSCH--George. The officers, staff, participants, members and friends of AHRC, convey their deepest condolences to the family of George Hirsch. Having served as a member of the Board of Directors, Chairman of a range of committees with particular focus on matters of finance, George was for
 KARASZ--Peter. The partners and staff of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP mourn the passing of our partner, managing partner and friend Peter Karasz. He led our firm with courage, energy and vision. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Marilyn, his children Alexandra, Andrew, M
 LANDAU--Bernard D. (Bernie, Shimmy, BDL.) Born November 20, 1930. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Brooklyn Law School, who pioneered the synthesis of law with computerization. Founding and senior partner of the national law firm of Hayt, Hayt & Landau, with 35 offices in eight states. Ch
 PLANK--John N., 81, resident of Storrs, CT. Died April 30, 2005. He was Emeritus Professor of Polital Science at the University of Connecticut. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II in the North African and European campaigns. He received his B.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard Uni
 RASHBAUM -- William K., MD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, William K. Rashbaum, MD, former chief of family planning services and a member of the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology for almost 50
 SAPERY--Stanley Louis. On May 6 after a courageous battle. Sandy was the adored and devoted husband of Jane. Loving and beloved father of David and Michael. Dear brother of Beth, fatherin-law of Fern, brother-in-law of Louis. Loved and respected by his wife, sons and all who knew him. Servi
 SARGENT--Herb. We mourn Herb, a person with such strong political principles and conscience. For 20 years, his keen wit and intelligence helped us craft our message with substance and a lot of humor. Norman Lear, Bobbie Handman and the Folks at People for the American Way       
 TRALDI--Giuseppe A. ''Alberto.'' 77, formerly of NYC, died April 30, 2005. He arrived in New York in 1955, worked for several years in journalism and had a long and distinguished career as a college professor, both at CCNY and the University of Puerto Rico; he received his Ph.D. from Columb
 WALL--Irving E. The Board of the Directors of the Shubert Foundation mourns the passing of their esteemed Director, Irving E. Wall. Mr. Wall's membership on the Board endured in excess of 33 years. His wisdom and support greatly contributed to the preservation of the American Theatre. We ex
 YANUCK--Sherman on May 4, 2005, peacefully at home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL, formerly of Huntington, L.I. Beloved and loving husband of Anita and the late Lyn. He will be missed by his adoring children Bob and Robin, Beth and Jerry, Scott and Barbara; stepchildren Andrew and Elizabeth, Jud
 Benny Bailey, an American trumpet player who for most of his career was a well-known fixture on the European jazz scene, died on April 14 at his home in Amsterdam. He was 79. His death was announced by city officials, who did not specify the cause. Mr. Bailey was admired by 
 Fei Xiaotong, one of China's pre-eminent social scientists, who survived Mao's Cultural Revolution to claim a place of honor in Chinese society, died April 24 in Beijing. He was 94. His death was reported by the official New China News Agency. Fei Xiaotong -- or Fei Hsiao-t'
 Peter W. Rodino Jr., an obscure congressman from the streets of Newark who impressed the nation by the dignity, fairness and firmness he showed as chairman of the impeachment hearings that induced Richard M. Nixon to resign as president, died on Saturday at his home in West Orange, N.J. He 
 Lloyd N. Cutler, the Washington legal mandarin who shuttled between a lucrative private practice and the White House, where he was counselor to Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 87. His death was reported by his wife, Polly Kr
 BAUER--Theodore J., MD, 95 of Wyckoff on May 6, 2005 at home. Beloved husband of 66 years of Helen Lucy (nee Mattes). Cherished father of Jane Gray of Marietta, GA, Virginia Biedron of Clarksville, MD, Martha Bauer of Saddle River, and the late Mary L. Bauer in 1977. Loving grandfather of n
 DANNENBERG -- Gerald. Dear husband, loving father and grandfather, died Friday, May 6. The family invites friends and relatives to remember him at their home in Great Neck.       
 DICKSTEIN -- Max. 95, of Deerfield Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. With his indomitable spirit, he lived alone until a brief illness. He approached old age with humor and grace. Beloved husband of 51 years of the late Rose. Most precious father of Ruth Saperstein and Marilyn Johnson. L
 LEVINSON--Max L. 90, of Westport, CT, died May 5th. Beloved husband of the late Eva (Klamen), he is survived by three children, Kenneth, Gerald and Amy Dukas, nine grandchildren, one greatgrandchild, and his sister Ruth Tulin. A loving, caring, optimistic family man, he will be deeply misse
 SHERMAN--Lee. Of Scarsdale, born June 5, 1920, died peacefully on May 7. Beloved husband of Ray Morris, loving and devoted father and father-in-law of Andrew and Adriana, Roger and Dorothy, Tom and Alison; proud grandfather of Jacqueline, Jamie, Carrie, Nicholas and Lincoln. He was a man of
 YANUCK--Sherman on May 4, 2005, peacefully at home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL, formerly of Huntington, L.I. Beloved and loving husband of Anita and the late Lyn. He will be missed by his adoring children Bob and Robin, Beth and Jerry, Scott and Barbara; stepchildren Andrew and Elizabeth, Jud
 Benjamin Mordecai, a Broadway producer, general manager and former managing director of the Yale Repertory Theater, died on Sunday in New Haven. He was 60. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Sherry Lynn Morley Mordecai. At his death, Mr. Mordecai was the associate dean and
 AKRONGOLD--Rochelle. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rochelle Akrongold, beloved mother of Barry and Bruce Akrongold, cherished friends whose generosity and commitment enriches Jewish life in New York and strengthens our ability
 APRIL--Ira. Age 74. Of Summit, N.J., formerly of Livingston, on May 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Rigie. Devoted father of Sheryl and Mike. Adoring grandfather of Marni, Austin, Robbie and Jessie. Dear brother of David April and Barbara Saltzman, and brother-in-law of Marion April and Bob Sal
 CAMPANELLA--Philip A., of New York, Executive Director of the Singers Forum. His brother, John, his many relatives, colleagues, friends and students at the Singers Forum and throughout the theater, cabaret and opera communities deeply mourn his passing. A wake and viewing will be held on Ma
 DANNENBERG -- Gerald. Dear husband, loving father and grandfather, died Friday, May 6. The family invites friends and relatives to remember him at their home in Great Neck.       
 DeROSE--James F. Died on May 7, 2005. He was 71 years of age and left a rich legacy, both professional and personal. Almost immediately after graduating from Akron High School in 1950, he joined IBM, and in his 30 years with that organization, worked on projects ranging from SAGE I (New Yor
 DWYER--Cornelius J., Jr. Age 61. Died suddenly of a heart attack at his weekend home in Germantown, N.Y. on May 7, 2005. Casey, as he was known, graduated from Yale University and Harvard Law School, and practice law for 35 years at Shearman & Sterling in New York City, where he was a partn
 GOSS--Chester Curtis, 83, died May 8 at his home in Tinton Falls, NJ. He retired as President and CEO of CIT Corp. and CIT Leasing Corp., NYC. He was a member of the New York Bar Association. He was predeceased by three children, Christine, David and Deirdre Goss. Surviving are his wife, Ad
 MINKOFF--Harry. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime Temple member, Harry Minkoff. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 SARGENT--Herb. The Dramatists Guild of America mourns the passing of Herb Sargent, legendary television writer and courageous and committed defender of the rights of authors in all media. We will miss him--his wit, his decency, his generosity and his dedication. John Weidman, President The 
 SLUTZKY -- Robert. The Trustees, Faculty, students and staff of The Cooper Union for The Advancement of Science and Art are deeply saddened at the passing of Robert Slutzky, alumnus, 1951 School of Art at Cooper Union. On the faculty of The School of Architecture from 1968 to 1980, and facu
 WASSER--Adolph, grieving the recent loss of Sylvia, his beloved wife of 56 years, died Sunday, May 8, at age 84. Beloved father of Steven (Stephanie) and Daniel (Marcia) and grandfather of Jacqueline, Merrill, Maddie, Caryn and Melissa. He was a leader in the field of Jewish social work, se
 Peter Karasz, the managing partner of Cleary Gottlieb, one of New York's leading international law firms, died on April 30 in Washington, where he had gone for a business meeting. He was 63 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was a cancer diagnosed four years ago, the firm ann
 CHAIKIN--Marvin, 88, of Chapel Hill, formerly of Great Neck, NY., May 9, 2005. Goodbye to our Marvin, a generous and gentle heart that had room for everyone: his wife, Nancy; his sister, Jeannette Harris; his extraordinary children, Robin Litwin, Peter, and Andrew; his devoted grandchildren
 FRIEDMAN -- Jack. The Greater New York Health Care Facilities Association is profoundly saddened by the passing of its President, Jack Friedman. He will be fondly remembered as a successful and generous businessman, a scholar, a good samaritan and a fine leader and friend. He was a devoted 
 MORDECAI -- Benjamin III. We mourn the loss of our Associate Dean and esteemed colleague. A distinguished man of the theatre, Ben was a teacher, mentor, producer and innovator marked by his extraordinary dedication to theatre training and monumental achievements in the American theatre. A t
 RAMKHALAWAN -- Seeper sad. The entire Abraham Joshua Heschel School community mourns the loss of our devoted and respected employee Seepersad Ramkhalawan, his wife Maldaye and his daughter Sarah in a tragic fire. ''Ram'' has been part of our building staff since 2002. Our heartfelt sympathi
 ROTWEIN--Donald. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Donald Rotwein. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey J. Siegel, Pres. Solomon S. Greenspan, Secy.       
 Zhang Chunqiao, a radical Maoist who held several positions at the apex of China's government when he was convicted in 1981 as a member of the infamous Gang of Four, died April 21, the Chinese government reported yesterday. He was 88. The state-run New China News Agency said Mr. Zha
 CHAIKIN--Marvin, 88, of Chapel Hill, formerly of Great Neck, NY., May 9, 2005. Goodbye to our Marvin, a generous and gentle heart that had room for everyone: his wife, Nancy; his sister, Jeannette Harris; his extraordinary children, Robin Litwin, Peter, and Andrew; his devoted grandchildren
 ELLINWOOD--George Webster, Jr. an international private banker, died peacefully on May 10, 2005 at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, FL., following a long illness. He was 71. The son of George W. Ellinwood and Doris (Green) Ellinwood, he was born in Providence, R.I. He graduated f
 MOTYKA--Edmund J., 91. Died on Tuesday, May 10th after a short illness. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Alexandra and Konrad. Loving Opa of Ian, Brian, Kurt and Corrin. A private service is planned for Warren, MA. Contributions in his memory may be made to Doctors Without Bord
 PARMETT--Richard L. May 10, 2005. Age 75. Loving husband of Linda. Devoted father of Leslie, Robert (Pam), and Todd (Pam). Grandfather of Matthew and Samuel. Services today, Beth Israel Chapel, Delray Beach, FL. Contributions in his memory may be made to Hospice by the Sea, Boca Raton, FL. 
 SILVERMAN--Stanley H., 90, of Sarasota, formerly of Manhattan died May 9, 2005 peacefully in his home.       
 SMITH--Arthur F. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Children's Aid Society of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of our Trustee and friend. Discovered abandoned as an infant and put under the care of The Children's Aid Society at age five, Art was one of the original Orphan Tra
 Tony Fuller, a former journalist and co-author of a well-known book about the Vietnam War, died Friday in New York. He was 62 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. The cause was a stroke, his family said. When he was a senior editor at Newsweek, Mr. Fuller and another senior ed
 Jay Marshall, a magician whose accomplishments -- from appearing 14 times on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' to playing New York's Palace and London's Palladium -- persuaded America's conjurers to elect him their dean, died Tuesday in Chicago. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, his s
 Milton Frederick Rosenthal, a former chairman of the chemical giant Engelhard Corporation, died on May 2 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived in Harrison, N.Y. His death was announced by the family. Mr. Rosenthal, a lawyer by training, started his busine
 BERGMAN--Carl. On May 12, 2005. Passed away peacefully just short of his 99th birthday. Husband of the late Helen, cherished father of Ann Burger and Judy Hochberg, admired father-in-law of Herbert Burger and Alan Hochberg. Loving and adored grandfather of Gabrielle Walborsky, Simone Robin,
 CHAIKIN--Marvin, 88, of Chapel Hill, formerly of Great Neck, NY., May 9, 2005. Goodbye to our Marvin, a generous and gentle heart that had room for everyone: his wife, Nancy; his sister, Jeannette Harris; his extraordinary children, Robin Litwin, Peter, and Andrew; his devoted grandchildren
 ELLINWOOD--George Webster, Jr. an international private banker, died peacefully on May 10, 2005 at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, FL., following a long illness. He was 71. The son of George W. Ellinwood and Doris (Green) Ellinwood, he was born in Providence, R.I. He graduated f
 La ROCKA--Frank. The Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Frank La Rocka. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held Saturday, May 14, at 9AM, Holy Rosary Church, 80 Jerome Ave, Staten Island. Jean-P
 LACEY--Robert Irving, of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY passed away peacefully at home on May 12, 2005 at the age of 94. Most beloved husband for 70 years of Edith Gordon; adored father of Carol & Edward Sacks, Joan & Ronald Rothaus; most loved grandfather of Jonathan & Barrie Sack
 RUBIN--Julie, on May 12th, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Peter. Devoted mother of Bette Weinberger and mother-in-law of Stephen. Cherished grandmother of Aaron, Joshua and his wife Marjorie and great-grandmother of Jacob and Sarah. Loving sister of Morris Mirzoeff and Alice Weissman. Servi
 SARGENT--Herb. The Writers Guild of America, East, mourns the passing of Herb Sargent who served as President of the Guild East for 14 years. He was known for his generosity and we will miss his leadership, insight and impeccable wit. Warren Leight Vice President, WGAE Mona Mangan Executive
 SILVERMAN--Stanley H., 90, of Sarasota, formerly of Manhattan died May 9, 2005 peacefully in his home.       
 STEWART--Sy, of Manhasset, L.I. Devoted husband of Gloria. Beloved father of Michele, Lisa and Beth. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Jodi, Jesse, Eric, Emily and Lexie. Services today 1PM at ''Gutterman's'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I. STEWART--Sy. The Educational Foundat
 WEINSTEIN -- Kenneth D., died of cancer on May 10, 2005. Born July 20, 1952 in NYC. Predeceased by father Edward G. Weinstein and brother Peter Weinstein. Survived by wife Libby, sons Matthew (Elan), Taylor and Timothy, granddaughter Kylee, all of Colorado; mother Barbara of NYC and sister 
 Horton Marlais Davies, Putnam professor emeritus of religion at Princeton and an author of many books about church history, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 89. The death was announced by his family. Dr. Davies specialized in the impact of Christianity
 BAUMEISTER--Matthew C., passed away on Wednesday, May 11, 2005, of sudden cardiac complications. He was 19. Born in New York, NY, he moved to Mendham Twp. in 1993. He is survived by his parents, Lynn and Mitch Baumeister; his brother, Jared; his grandparents, Rosalyn and Hyman Einhorn; and 
 BERGMAN--Carl. On May 12, 2005. Passed away peacefully just short of his 99th birthday. Husband of the late Helen, cherished father of Ann Burger and Judy Hochberg, admired father-in-law of Herbert Burger and Alan Hochberg. Loving and adored grandfather of Gabrielle Walborsky, Simone Robin,
 KURTZ--Norman D. Norm will be profoundly missed. No matter the number of years that we had him, they were too few. He was a great husband, father, athlete, intellect and engineer. His friends, either close or casual, will know that I have not overstated either his devotion to his family or 
 LACEY--Robert Irving, of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY passed away peacefully at home on May 12, 2005 at the age of 94. Most beloved husband for 70 years of Edith Gordon; adored father of Carol & Edward Sacks, Joan & Ronald Rothaus; most loved grandfather of Jonathan & Barrie Sack
 LATEINER -- Col. Robert, M.D. In his 96th year. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Kasenetz) for 66 years. Cherished father of Lloyd Lateiner, M.D. and Lynne Manning (Burton). Loving grandfather of Patrick, Mitchel and Dagny Maidman and Eve and Robert Lateiner. Adoring great-grandfather of All
 McCORMICK--Lawrence P. (''Mac'' or ''Larry''), died on 6 May 2005 in Brooklyn, NY. He was 84; born on 17 November 1920 in Manhattan, NY. Mac McCormick was a retired technical director with ABC news where he worked for years in the production of both ABC's national and local TV news programs
 STERLING--Ralph T., 95, of Summit, NJ, died Wednesday, May 11, 2005 at Hackettstown Community Hospital after a brief illness. Born April 17th, 1910 in Christfield, MD, he was the son of the late Charles and Anniebelle Whelton Sterling. Mr. Sterling had lived in Summit, NJ for the past 43 ye
 WEINSTEIN -- Kenneth D., died of cancer on May 10, 2005. Born July 20, 1952 in NYC. Predeceased by father Edward G. Weinstein and brother Peter Weinstein. Survived by wife Libby, sons Matthew (Elan), Taylor and Timothy, granddaughter Kylee, all of Colorado; mother Barbara of NYC and sister 
 Tristan Egolf, a young novelist whose lavish prose was dismissed by some critics as callow and rapturously compared by others to the work of Thomas Pynchon, William Faulkner and John Kennedy Toole, was found dead in his apartment in Lancaster, Pa., on May 7. He was 33. The cause was
 ALLEN--William C. Jr., 57, beloved husband of Alexandra de Wankowicz Allen, died suddenly at home of a heart attack on May 7, 2005. He founded and was Managing Director of Kennedy Information Advisors, a consulting concern. He previously founded Beaufort Allen Associates, a technology strat
 ALPERT--Carl. The American Technion Society (ATS) expresses its profound sorrow at the loss of Carl Alpert, Technion historian and roving ambassador, and one of the university's most eloquent advocates and spokesmen. Himself an integral part of Technion history--known as ''Mr. Technion''--C
 BAUMEISTER--Matthew C. Passed away on Wednesday, May 11, 2005, of sudden cardiac complications. He was 19. Born in New York, NY, he moved to Mendham Twp. in 1993. He is survived by his parents, Lynn and Mitch Baumeister; his brother, Jared; his grandparents, Rosalyn and Hyman Einhorn; and h
 BROWN--James Stuart III. Died the morning of May 13th at the age of seventy-five, in York Harbor, ME of pulmonary fibrosis. Born in Sewickley, PA, he graduated from the Groton School, class of '47 and Yale University, class of '51. President of Liquid Six, he was an engineer, an expert in h
 FISHMAN--David. On May 13, 2005. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father of Melvin (Eve), Amelia (Richard) Bernstein and Edward (Cynthia). Cherished grandfather of Deborah (Judd), Bradley, Diane (Ian), Jennifer (Gregg) and David, Bridgette and Alison. Great-grandfather of Ethan, Brian, Ellio
 GANIN--Jack of Fort Lauderdale, FL & Alburg, VT. June 9, 1919-May 2, 2005. Jack was born in NYC & lived much of his life there as a successful businessman and owner of Ganin Tire. He served in the Navy during WWII piloting beach landing craft in the Pacific. Jack met Barbara Bumgardner in 1
 HECHT--Kal, died in peace on May 13, 2005 at his daughter's home in Miami. These are his own words: ''I graduated from Lafayette College in June of 1941. As Salutatorian of my class, I gave a speech at our commencement exercises urging that the United States enter World War II on the side o
 KURTZ--Norman D. Beloved husband of wife Honey, and loving father of daughters Lori and Stephanie. Norman was a leader in any field he pursued. In business he was the founding partner and driving force behind the success of Flack + Kurtz, where he was responsible for the engineering design 
 LIBERT--Herbert J. May 13, 2005, at his Florida home. The family will observe Shiva at 653 Balfour Place in Melville, NY, May 16 to May 18.       
 RONKIN--Semyon. Mannes College of Music, a division of New School University, mourns the passing of Semyon Ronkin, violin teacher in the Extension and Preparatory Divisions since 1994. Mannes will miss his dedication to teaching and his devotion to his students. Philip Scaturro, Chair, Boar
 ROSARIO--Jaime, 65. Beloved husband of Pam, cherished father of Andrea and husband Jose, devoted Grandpa to Isabela, died May 11, 2005 in New York. Born in Puerto Rico, he arrived in New York in 1951. A graduate of Hunter College School of Social Work, Jaime was a trusted friend, teacher an
 ROSENTHAL--Milton F. Purchase College President Thomas Schwarz, the Friends Board and staff of the Neuberger Museum of Art offer their sincere condolences to the family of Milton Rosenthal, a longtime member and generous supporter of the museum and college. His legacy of wisdom, friendship 
 ROSENTHAL--Robert Z. On Saturday, May 14, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Cynthia. Cherished father of Edward and Tara, Terri and Neal Einsidler, Douglas and Shari. Adored grandfather of Benjamin, Sam, Jesse, Amanda, Zack, Daniel, Kyle and Max. Dear brother of Marty and Pat, Janie and Bar
 RYAN -- Donald Hillsdon, ''Mister Minit''. September 23, 1925--May 9, 2005. The co-founder and former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Minit International died at his home in London, England on Monday, May 9. He and his partner virtually invented the rapid-service industry and the id
 SASSI--Etienne. Died in Paris, Sunday May 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Sophie, loving brother of Dominique and Anne Marie, godfather of Etienne and Arnaud. International art dealer in Paris and New York. Associate of Hammer Galleries, New York for over thirty - five years. Friends and family
 STERLING--Ralph T., 95, of Summit, NJ, died Wednesday, May 11, 2005 at Hackettstown Community Hospital after a brief illness. Born April 17th, 1910 in Christfield, MD, he was the son of the late Charles and Anniebelle Whelton Sterling. Mr. Sterling had lived in Summit, NJ for the past 43 ye
 STEWART--Sy of Manhasset, Long Island. Devoted husband of Gloria. Beloved father of Michele, Lisa and Beth. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Jodi, Jesse, Eric, Emily and Lexie. Services were held Friday, May 13th. STEWART--Sy. To Sy, your warmth and friendship was felt by everyone 
 WOLFE--Lester S. On May 12, 2005. Beloved husband of Dorothy and the late Shelly. A soft spoken gentleman who was caring and generous. He will be truly missed.       
 YOUDELMAN--Alan. Peacefully passed away on May 11, at 71. From Richmond, VA, formerly from Woodmere, NY. Married to his late wife Helen. He is survived by his son Dean (Ruth), grandchildren Sean and Lindsey, sister Elaine Massa (Peter). He will be sorely missed. His smile and personality wa
 Stan Levey, one of the first drummers to master the complex form of jazz known as bebop, died on April 19 in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Sherman Oaks. He died two months after surgery for cancer of the jaw, said his wife, Angela. Mr. Levey worked with Peggy Lee, 
 Wilson A. Seibert Jr., who helped create some of Madison Avenue's most memorable advertising campaigns in a three-decade career at J. Walter Thompson, died on April 20 in Chatham, Mass. He was 77 and lived in Chatham and Naples, Fla. The cause was complications of lung cancer, his s
 HARNETT--Bernard. ''Buncie'' was a lawyer. During World War II he was a Treasury Department agent. The last of his generation of Harnetts, he leaves behind his wife Sylvia, children Joan Tallan and Jeffrey Harnett, grandchildren Mitchell, Eric, Mark and Daniel Tallan, and Michael, Matthew a
 HOLUB--John J. Educator and union activist, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in San Francisco on March 21, at the age of 68. Mr. Holub spent his entire career in New York City, where he was a founding member of the United Federation of Teachers and by 1967 an assistant principal in the city's 
 KAUFMAN -- Jacob M. ''Jack''. 76. Beloved husband of 50 years, brother, father and grandpa, died at his home in Lakewood, NJ, on Saturday, May 14th, 2005, surrounded by his loving family after a long struggle with diabetes. Jack was born in Brooklyn and raised in Great Neck. He graduated wi
 KEEGAN--James F. Died May 14th, 2005. NYPD (retired), 1952-1980. Member of the Board Patrolman's Benevolent Association, 1961-1980, and PBA Brooklyn South Trustee, 1964-1980. Affectionately known as ''Mr. PBA'' for his service and dedication to assisting police officers. He worked on behalf
 KURTZ--Norman D. Beloved husband of wife Honey, and loving father of daughters Lori and Stephanie. Norman was a leader in any field he pursued. In business he was the founding partner and driving force behind the success of Flack + Kurtz, where he was responsible for the engineering design 
 LATEINER -- Col. Robert, M.D. In his 96th year. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Kasenetz) for 66 years. Cherished father of Lloyd Lateiner, M.D. and Lynne Manning (Burton). Loving grandfather of Patrick, Mitchel and Dagny Maidman and Eve and Robert Lateiner. Adoring great-grandfather of All
 RABSTENEK -- Tom. The Manhattan Soccer Club mourns the passing of our founding President and esteemed colleague, Tom Rabstenek. Tom inspired us to establish a developmental soccer program that benefits thousands of children. His acumen and sage counsel will be missed. Our heartfelt sympathy
 ROSENTHAL -- Robert Z., D.D.S. We mourn the loss of a man who was a quiet, sensitive person, possessing a strong inner strength. Dedicated to the care of his dental patients who loved him for his kindness and ability. He served the Queens community and many dental organizations throughout h
 SHULMAN--Pamela S. (Levy). 59, wife of Steven Shulman, of North Hampton, NH, and NYC, died Saturday, May 14, 2005. Besides her husband Steven, survivors include son, Jason Shulman and his wife Jennifer, and their children, Lucky, Ava and Georgia, all of Rye, NH; a daughter, Pippa Shulman an
 TOPAL -- Lorraine. The American Friends of the Ghetto Fighters Museum extends condolences to our Board member and friend, Jack Topal, on the loss of his beloved wife. Amy Miller, President Debbie Nahshon, Exec. Dir.       
 WAGNER--Raymond W. On May 14th, 2005. Attorney. Reposing Redden Funeral Home, 325 W. 14th St, NYC Monday 4-9 pm. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, 10:30 am, St. Francis Xavier Church. In lieu of flowers, donations to St. Francis Xavier Church would be appreciated. WAGNER--Raymond W.
 WIENER--Leo. May 14th, 2005, at 80. Beloved husband of his adored Naomi. Devoted brother of Sol. Loving father to Lewis, Lynne, Michael, Priscilla, Robert. Adored grandfather, uncle, cousin, father-in-law. Cherished friend to all blessed to knew him. A true renaissance man who loved fishing
 Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, a soldier and scholar who fought in World War II, commanded the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and came out of retirement to lead the United States Military Academy in a time of crisis, died on Monday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center here. He was 90 and a re
 Jimmy Martin, whose high tenor voice, driving guitar and plucky personality made him an exemplar of bluegrass music for more than 50 years, died on Saturday in Nashville. He was 77 and lived in Hermitage, Tenn. The cause was bladder cancer and congestive heart failure, said his son 
 BACHELDER--Walter Frederick, of Ft. Salonga, NY, died Smithtown, NY, on May 9, 2005 of heart failure. Born November 12, 1918 in Holyoke, MA. He served his country in WWII in the OSS and retired in 1997 as President of Testing Machines Inc. He is survived by his wife Joan Sullivan Bachelder,
 BOGASH--Irving. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of our dedicated and dignified Honorary Trustee. Condolences to his beloved wife Gertrude and the family. BOGASH--Irving A. Devoted husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Bert (Judy Crown), Barbara Sivak (Denis) and Harriet
 HRELJANOVIC--Teodor. Beloved father of Maja, Vlado and Darko, died May 15, 2005, at age 91. His distinguished career included diplomatic service for Yugoslavia, and the production of motion pictures. He joins his beloved Nives. For information: Westchester Funeral Home, Inc., 914-337-4585. 
 JAFFE--Albert L. 87 years young passed away Sunday, May 15. ''Uncle Al'' was the devoted great-uncle of Mark Jaffe, Lori Lynn Jaffe-Brous, husband Mark Brous and Diane Jaffe Varsolona, loving great-great-uncle of Rachel, Jennifer, David, Jessica and Robert. A former employee of The New York
 KEEGAN--James F. Died May 14th, 2005. NYPD (retired), 1952-1980. Member of the Board Patrolman's Benevolent Association, 1961-1980, and PBA Brooklyn South Trustee, 1964-1980. Affectionately known as ''Mr. PBA'' for his service and dedication to assisting police officers. He worked on behalf
 LATEINER -- Col. Robert, M.D. In his 96th year. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Kasenetz) for 66 years. Cherished father of Lloyd Lateiner, M.D. and Lynne Manning (Burton). Loving grandfather of Patrick, Mitchel and Dagny Maidman and Eve and Robert Lateiner. Adoring great-grandfather of All
 LEVITAN--James. The partners of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP mourn the passing of our colleague James A. Levitan, founding partner of our firm's Tax Group. Jim was a key player in the development of the firm and imbued the Tax Group with a spirit of utmost professionalism. All J
 LIPPITT--Frederick, died on May 11, 2005 in Providence, RI at the age of 88. He was the son of United States Senator Henry F. Lippitt and Lucy Hayes Herron Lippitt. He is survived by his sister Mary Ann Lippitt. He graduated from St. Marks School, Yale University '39 and Yale Law School '46
 MOHN--James, ''Jim'', age 56, died May 15, 2005 in Shelbyville, KY. He was former President and CEO of GE Capital I.T. Solutions. Survived by his wife Rebecca, two children, two grandchildren. Funeral services at 1 P.M. Wednesday at the Shannon Funeral Home in Shelbyville.       
 PARKER--Julius G., M.D. Beloved husband of the late Annette M. Parker. Cherished father of Wendy and her husband Tom, and of Jonathan and his wife Kathy. Devoted grandfather of Scott, Elissa, Mark Russell, Thomas, Ryan and Mackenzie. Loving companion of Naomi. Devoted and caring physician w
 SCHARFMAN--Spenser. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 SCHINDLER -- Jack, D.D.S., died Sunday, May 15th, peacefully at age 76 at his daughter's home in Mamaroneck with his family at his side. Gloria's beloved husband of 51 years, caring son of Robert and Fanny, loving father of Susan and Steven, adoring grandfather of Alex, Adam, Emma and Sarah
 SHURMAN--Helen R., on May 15, 2005. Loving wife of Jack Shurman. Beloved daughter of Ida Fishman. Devoted mother of Paul & his wife Bari, Bill & his wife Jenn and the late Andy Shurman. Cherished grandmother of Jared, Jake and Julia. Funeral services Wednesday 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 
 WAGNER--Raymond W. The partners, associates and staff of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP mourn the death of our esteemed retired partner and friend and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Ray was a highly respected corporate securities lawyer, credited with developing some of the most
 WIENER--Leo. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of Leo Wiener; we extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Naomi and family. Old Westbury Golf and CC Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 YALLOWITZ--Paul, CPA. We extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Paul Yallowitz, to his children Meri, Joseph and Sheila, Alan and Gretchen, and his grandchildren Anna, Maia, Will, Aaron, Jacob and Sam. We've been together for more than half a century. We will miss him dearly. Hoberm
 Emanuel Gluck, a retired middle-school principal who had a rich alternate life as Yankee Stadium's longest-working vendor, signified by his No. 1 badge, died on May 12 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Sharyn, 
 Norman D. Kurtz, the chairman and founding partner of the engineering firm Flack & Kurtz, which supplied many skyscrapers with electrical and mechanical equipment, died on Friday at home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 69. The death, apparently caused by a heart attack, was announced by h
 ASIP--Rev. Msgr James W., of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn at his family's home in Cutchogue, L.I. on May 16, 2005. Born to James W. and Katherine (Sullivan) Asip on September 26, 1912, in Brooklyn, NY. Retired Diocesan Director of the Propagation of the Faith, Brooklyn, NY. Loving
 BEERS--Robert G., II. Died at his home in Manhattan on April 17, 2005, at the end of more than a 20-year battle with AIDS. Born on October 22, 1946 in Bloomsburg, PA, Beers moved to New York City following his graduation from Kenyon College. From 1969 to 1972, he was assistant to the editor
 COHEN--Edward S. MIT Class of 1950, 1951 and 1955. Beloved husband of Rhea, father of Jonathan, Amy and Andrew, grandfather of Cole, Miles, Natasha and Ashley, died on May 16, 2005. Services Wednesday 4pm at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions to NY Youth Symphony or 
 KURTZ--Norman. We mourn the passing of our dearest friend of 30 years. He enriched our lives with his brand of wisdom, balance and humor. As families and friends we were a team completely entwined and cherished the memories of bringing up our children, gardening, tennis, skiing, golf, celeb
 LATEINER -- Col. Robert, M.D. In his 96th year. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Kasenetz) for 66 years. Cherished father of Lloyd Lateiner, M.D. and Lynne Manning (Burton). Loving grandfather of Patrick, Mitchel and Dagny Maidman and Eve and Robert Lateiner. Adoring great-grandfather of All
 LEVITAN--James A. 80 died Saturday, May 14, of a heart attack. Jim was born onMarch 24, 1925, in New York City to Della and Leo Levitan. He started MIT at age 16 and graduated in 1948 with a degree in chemical engineering. After completing his service in the Navy during World War II, he beg
 MELLEN--Eugene. On May 16, 2005. Devoted husband of Helen. Loving father of Larry and Eva. Beloved grandfather to Arielle, Jordan, Talia and Etan and dearest brother of Ben. We are deeply saddened at the passing of our family member who brought much love and joy to those around him. He will
 PARKER -- Julius., M.D. Trustees, staff, and volunteers of the Museum of Jewish Heritage-A Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of our kind and gentle volunteer Gallery Educator. Julius will be greatly missed. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Robert M
 PETERSON -- Robert L., Greenwich, CT, died May 15th, 2005. The entire Circumnavigators Club expresses profound sorrow on the passing of its International Past President (1985-1986). Our deepest and sincerest sympathy to his wife, Evelyn, and his entire family.       
 SHAPIRO--Alan. Tragically on May 16, 2005. Beloved husband of Felice (nee Horowitz). Loving father of Jacob and Caleb. Devoted son of Bernard and Barbara. Dear brother of John and Susan. Funeral Service Thursday 10 am at Larchmont Temple in Larchmont, NY. Interment at Mt. Hope Cemetery in H
 SUTTON--Kelso H. On May 14, 2005; born 1906 in Canada. A Harvard graduate, class of 1929. Also a graduate of Harvard Business School, class of 1931. He was a management consultant and author and a former captain in the U.S. Army during WWII. Beloved husband of the late Jean Sutton, father o
 ZALOOM--Edgar A. Passed away peacefully in his 92nd year, Thursday, May 12. Survived by his loving wife Betty, of 63 years, his devoted sons Anthony of San Francisco and Peter of New York, four grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. A longtime resident of Douglas Manor, NY, and John's Is
 Paul K. Keene, a pioneer of organic farming in the United States whose products were among the first commercially available organic foods in the country, died on April 23 at a nursing home in Mechanicsburg, Pa. He was 94. Mr. Keene's family announced the death. For more than half a 
 Arthur Naftalin, who led Minneapolis through the turbulent 1960's as a four-term mayor, died there on Monday. He was 87. The cause was complications of a fall, his family said. Though Dr. Naftalin served as mayor for eight years, they were not his first brush with the office
 Frank Gorshin, a prolific actor and impressionist whose career was long identified with a questionable character, the Riddler on television's original ''Batman,'' but later highlighted by his Broadway impersonation of a more amiable one, George Burns, died on Tuesday in Burbank, Calif. He w
 COOPER--Elaine Terner. All of us at Dune Capital extend our condolences to our friend and partner Steven Mnuchin, his wife Heather, his brother Alan, his wife Kim and their entire family on the passing of Steven and Alan's elegant and courageous mother, Elaine Terner Cooper. Daniel Neidich,
 MELLEN--Eugene. On May 16, 2005. Devoted husband of Helen. Loving father of Larry and Eva. Beloved grandfather to Arielle, Jordan, Talia and Etan and dearest brother of Ben. We are deeply saddened at the passing of our family member who brought much love and joy to those around him. He will
 O'HARA--Barney. Died early Wednesday morning in peace and at home surrounded by his wife of 50 years, Ruth, his two sons, Steven and Jonathan, and his daughter, Sharon. He was a man much beloved by family and friends, one who touched many lives with his kindness and generosity. Barney was t
 PARKER--Julius G., M.D. The Executive Committee of The Montefiore Staff & Alumni Association records with profound sorrow the passing of our former president, honoree and long standing member. Dr. Parker was a wise, dedicated and caring physician, a true gentleman and a loyal friend. Our he
 ROSS--Irwin. Died May 17, 2005, after suffering a heart attack. Survived by wife, Patricia, and sister, Annette. Born in Chicago, graduated from Harvard, was a freelance writer for Readers Digest, and Fortune, and many others books, most prominent of which was ''The Loneliest Campaign.'' Ju
 SHAPIRO--Alan R. Tragically on May 16 at age 50. Loving and devoted husband of Felice, and adoring father of Jake and Caleb. Cherished son of Barbara and Bernard Shapiro, loving brother of Susan and John Shapiro. Devoted son-in-law of Carol and Philip Finn. Beloved brotherin-law of Shonni S
 SULLIVAN--John Michael, 35, of NYC on May 17, 2005. He was a gas trader for GA Options, NYC. Surviving are his parents, John M. and Jo-Ann Frenz Sullivan; two brothers, Kevin and Eric Sullivan; and an aunt, Maureen Sullivan. Visitng at the Higgins Memorial Home, 20 Center St, Freehold, NJ o
 TENENBAUM--Lola. We extend heartfelt condolences to Henry Tenenbaum, Deborah Vine and Shelly Tenenbaum on the passing of his beloved wife and their cherished mother. As Diamond Founders of the Medical Center Mr. and Mrs. Tenenbaum's outstretched hand of kindness and generous heart has helpe
 ZINN--Stephen, MD, 66, of Jersey City, on Tuesday, May 17, 2005 at Overlook Hospital, Summit. Survived by his son Michael Zinn, two daughters Laura Fromm and Rachel Zinn, his sister Susan Zinn and five grandsons Sam, Matthew, Jonah, David, and Daniel. For information call Bernheim - Apter -
 ADELBERG--Frank, ''Nicky'', 92, died peacefully May 19 at home with beloved Alice at his side. Travel agent nonpareil. He will be missed. Service May 22 at 10:30AM, Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 Queens Blvd.       
 DONOHUE--Stephen J. of Pearl River, NY died Wednesday, May 18, 2005. Mr. Donohue was an Executive Vice-President for Capital Factors, Northeast in NYC. He is survived by his wife Joanne Donohue; children Dan and Colleen Donohue, Brian and Dana Donohue, Jennifer Donohue and Stacey and Scott 
 GOLDBERG -- Mark Trent. Died suddenly of a massive heart attack on May 18, 2005 in San Francisco, California. Mark was Executive Director of The Ira and Leonore Gershwin Trusts, working closely, for 22 years, with the Trustee of the estate established by the late Leonore Strunsky Gershwin, 
 LEWINE--Richard. Of New York City and Charleston, SC, Broadway composer and television producer, died peacefully at home Thursday, May 19th, at age 94. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Rivers Lewine, his children, Peter Lewine and Cornelia Fortier, daughter-inlaw Deborah Gobble Lewine,
 MAKOVER--Stanford Israel of Atlanta, GA, died May 18, 2005. He was president of Shirley of Atlanta until 1989. Mr. Makover is survived by his wife and children. A funeral service will be held in Atlanta. For information call Dressler's Jewish Funeral Care at 770-451-4999.       
 MITTELMAN--Eugene. After a brave battle with cancer, Eugene Mittelman died on May 19 at Beth Israel Medical Center, surrounded by family and friends. He was born in 1935 in New York. He received his BA degree from Bard College and his law degree, as a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar, from Columb
 MOORE--Rev. John Patrick on May 18, 2005. Son of the late John and Mary Anne Moore. Loving brother of Anne (William) Moore Buchan and the late Maureen (Daniel) Moore Sozzo. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grand-nephews, cousins and friends. Devoted cousin of Marie Feeney
 NORTON--Dr. Gilbert Clarence. Died May 17, 2005 in Sun City Center, FL. Born February 15, 1916. Princeton University class of 1934. Dedicated physician of Endicott, N.Y. Survived by his wife of nearly 60 years, Pauline Ford Norton, loving father of two deceased sons Philip and Gilbert. Also
 SUTTON--Kelso H. On May 14, 2005; born 1906 in Canada. A Harvard graduate, class of 1929. Also a graduate of Harvard Business School, class of 1931. He was a management consultant and author and a former captain in the U.S. Army during WWII. Beloved husband of the late Jean Sutton, father o
 SWARTZ--Gerald B. Died May 19, after a valiant and determined battle. A remarkable and articulate man of astonishingly diverse interests. Always a solid defender of Israel and supporter of the Jewish people. You will be remembered for your strength, your wisdom and your opinions. Devoted hu
 WISE--Tom, 60, passed away on Tuesday, May 17, 2005, the result of brain cancer. T Wise, as he was affectionately known, spent his last 50 summers at Brant Lake Camp, where he was beloved for his wisdom, loyalty, spirit and humor. Over the 89 years of Brant Lake Camp's existence, few have h
 WOLF--Ambassador Milton A. PhD. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) are deeply sorrowed by the passing of our esteemed former President (1993-1996), Ambassador Milton A. Wolf. His distinguished term as U.S. Ambassador to Austr
 Piero Dorazio, a celebrated Italian abstract painter and an important innovator of Modernism in that country, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Perugia, near his home in Todi, Umbria. He was 77. The cause was complications of diabetes, said his dealer in New York, Achim Moeller.     
 Marc Lapp, a toxicologist, author and educator who campaigned against chemical perils by writing 14 books, testifying in many lawsuits against corporations and leading local environmental fights, died last Saturday at his home in Gualala, Calif., a coastal town north of San Francisco He w
 Milton A. Wolf, an economist, investor and real estate developer who headed the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and served as President Jimmy Carter's ambassador to Austria in the late 1970's, died Thursday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 80. The cause was c
 ADELBERG--Frank, ''Nicky'', 92, died peacefully May 19 at home with beloved Alice at his side. Travel agent nonpareil. He will be missed. Service May 22 at 10:30AM, Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 Queens Blvd. Edith, Stephen & Debi Harnik       
 DWECK--Morris. On May 20, 2005. Beloved husband of Nina. Loving father of Robbie and his wife Karen Kisslinger and Laura and her husband John Aden. Adoring grandfather of Emma and Ava Dweck and Paula and Charles Aden. Dear brother of Henry. After more than 40 years with the State of Israel 
 FRIEDMAN--R. Robert, age 79, beloved husband of the late Paula Friedman, loving father to Stuart (Elena) and Andrew, devoted grandfather of Adam and Mateo, passed away Sunday May 15, 2005 at the Madison House, Orlando, FL. Born in Brooklyn, raised a family and lived many years in Scarsdale,
 GERSTEIN -- Bruce. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 GOLDBERG -- Mark Trent. Died suddenly of a massive heart attack on May 18, 2005 in San Francisco, California. Mark was Executive Director of The Ira and Leonore Gershwin Trusts, working closely, for 22 years, with the Trustee of the estate established by the late Leonore Strunsky Gershwin, 
 GRANT -- Reverend Dr. Clarence P. We mourn the loss of our beloved pastor, friend and social activist on Monday, May 16. For more than three decades, Pastor Grant served a membership in excess of 3000 of the Convent Avenue Baptist Church. And as Pastor for 23 years, he lead the membership t
 HAMMER -- Emanuel F., Ph.D., on May 18th, 2005. Distinguished psychologist, author and teacher. An innovative thinker in the field of Projective Drawing Technique, Dr. Hammer made multi-faceted contributions to the field of psychology through his authorship of 15 books, numerous publication
 KASMAN--Mort. Award-winning independent producer/ director, died peacefully May 16 at 76. He resided in NYC and Shelter Island. A member of the DGA and Shelter Island Yacht Club, he was a lover of life and mentor to many. Mort is missed by his loving wife Sherrill, son Ian, grandchilren Hal
 LEWINE--Richard. The Dramatists Guild Council mourns the loss of our colleague, Richard Lewine. Mr. Lewine was a lifetime member of the Guild, and served as an officer on its Council. Our deepest sympathies to his family. He will be missed. John Weidman, President The Dramatists Guild of Am
 MITTELMAN--Eugene. The partners and staff of Maidman and Mittelman, LLP, mourn the loss of Eugene Mittelman, our friend and one of our founding partners. He led us to many great achievements with conviction, intelligence, courage and grace. His contributions to our firm will be sorely misse
 MOORE--Rev. John Patrick on May 18, 2005. Son of the late John and Mary Anne Moore. Loving brother of Anne (William) Moore Buchan and the late Maureen (Daniel) Moore Sozzo. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grand-nephews, cousins and friends. Devoted cousin of Marie Feeney
 SWARTZ--Gerald B. Died May 19, after a valiant and determined battle. A remarkable and articulate man of astonishingly diverse interests. Always a solid defender of Israel and supporter of the Jewish people. You will be remembered for your strength, your wisdom and your opinions. Devoted hu
 WOLF--Ambassador Milton A. Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Ambassador Milton A. Wolf, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 DAVIDSON--Nathan J. May 21, 1999. Thank you, God, for the gift of his life--a gift to so many--an inestimable treasure to me. KMD       
 Eddie Barclay, who for three decades after World War II was arguably the most powerful music mogul in Europe and inarguably the most flamboyant, died on May 13 in Paris. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his family told Agence France-Presse. The founder and longtime h
 BARDA -- Clifford James. Born May 4, 1935, Alexandria, Egypt. Died May 4, 2005, Seattle, WA. He was beloved and is mourned by his wife, Susan Tomita, his daughters, Justine Barda and Jennifer Barda, all of Seattle, stepson, Jason Rabitt-Tomita of Los Angeles, CA, and brother, Donald Barda (
 ELSON -- Francis Schubert, M.D., of Huntington, N.Y; on May 19, 2005 in his 94th year. Survived by his loving wife the former Adele Weinstock; children, Stephen of Redondo Beach, CA., Ronald of Carlsbad, CA., Wendy of Norwalk, CT., and Barry of Huntington, N.Y., five grandchildren, seven gr
 FRIEDMAN--R. Robert, age 79, beloved husband of the late Paula Friedman, loving father to Stuart (Elena) and Andrew, devoted grandfather of Adam and Mateo, passed away Sunday May 15, 2005 at the Madison House, Orlando, FL. Born in Brooklyn, raised a family and lived many years in Scarsdale,
 GERSTEIN--Bruce, on May 20, 2005. A real estate developer and longtime resident of Great Neck, NY, he was a survivor of the Holocaust. Loving husband of Lucy (nee Rothbaum). Devoted father of Dr. Hal (Caryn) Gerstein and Dr. David (Lynne) Gerstein. Adored grandfather of Jason, Adam, Samanth
 GINSBERG--Edward, 76, beloved husband of Jacqueline, died of natural causes. Ed is survived also by his children, Janice and Steven, his grandson Ben, and many, many friends and extended family.       
 GOLDBERG -- Frederick D. The Board of Directors of the Day Care Council of New York is deeply saddened by the sudden passing on May 16, 2005 of Frederick Goldberg, a staunch advocate for and practitioner of early childhood education and a Board member for 30 years. Mr. Goldberg graduated fr
 GOLDBERG -- Mark Trent. Died suddenly of a massive heart attack on May 18, 2005 in San Francisco, California. Mark was Executive Director of The Ira and Leonore Gershwin Trusts, working closely, for 22 years, with the Trustee of the estate established by the late Leonore Strunsky Gershwin, 
 GREENBERG--Arnold. Beloved husband of Jane. Adored father of Steven Greenberg, Jeffrey Greenberg and Melinda and David Morris. Dear brother of Beverly and George Paul. He will be greatly missed. Services at Gutterman's in Woodbury on Sunday, May 22, noon.       
 HAMMER -- Emanuel F., Ph.D., on May 18th, 2005. Distinguished psychologist, author and teacher. An innovative thinker in the field of Projective Drawing Technique, Dr. Hammer made multi-faceted contributions to the field of psychology through his authorship of 15 books, numerous publication
 LAPPE--Marc. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the March of Dimes sadly note the loss of Dr. Marc Lappe (1943-2005), a remarkable bioethicist and environmentalist, whose long, productive career ended too soon. Marc energetically worked for social justice in health, especially f
 MITTELMAN--Eugene. After a brave battle with cancer, Eugene Mittelman died on May 19 at Beth Israel Medical Center, surrounded by family and friends. He was born in 1935 in New York. He received his BA degree from Bard College and his law degree, as a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar, from Columb
 MOORE--Rev. John Patrick on May 18, 2005. Son of the late John and Mary Anne Moore. Loving brother of Anne (William) Moore Buchan and the late Maureen (Daniel) Moore Sozzo. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grand-nephews, cousins and friends. Devoted cousin of Marie Feeney
 PLACE--David W., of New Bedford, Mass., died May 13. Father of Sabrina C. Place, Tinsley P. Lockhart, stepson David W. Sinclair; sister, Sally P. Carter. He attended Brooks School and University of Virginia, 1954. He was a Vice President at J. Walter Thompson advertising.       
 RABSTENEK--Tom. Passed away on Friday, May 13 at home in the arms of his loving wife, Diane, after a long and courageous battle with bladder cancer. Cherished husband, devoted and adoring father of Christine and Thomas, beloved son of Tom Sr. and loved by many. Tom touched many lives in the
 RASMUSSEN--Dr. Howard. Founding Director of the Institute of Molecular Medicine and Genetics, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA, died on April 20, 2005, after a prolonged illness. He was formerly Chair of the Department of Biochemistry at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
 SEIDEMAN--Richard. Died May 19. A 50-year veteran of the advertising industry, he was executive vice president and chief operating officer of The Rodd Group. Past agencies include BBDO, Dancer Fitzgerald Sample, and Savitt Tobias Balk. He consulted to Hearst Corporation for 17 years, and in
 SUTTON--Kelso H. On May 14, 2005; born 1906 in Canada. A Harvard graduate, class of 1929. Also a graduate of Harvard Business School, class of 1931. He was a management consultant and author and a former captain in the U.S. Army during WWII. Beloved husband of the late Jean Sutton, father o
 THURSTON--Paul. Memorial mass 11:30AM, June 7, his birthday, Holy Name Church, 96th & Amsterdam Ave, NYC.       
 Chung Se Yung, the man who helped build the Hyundai Motor Company of South Korea into one of the world's biggest car makers, died Saturday in Seoul. He was 76. Mr. Chung died of pneumonia at the Asan Medical Center in Seoul, said a statement by Hyundai Development Company, part of t
 Ellis B. Page, an education professor who developed an early computer program for grading written essays, died Tuesday near his home in McLean, Va. He was 81. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Page was widely published in the field of educational psychology and e
 Dr. George B. Dantzig, a mathematician who devised an algorithm that helped create linear programming, now a vital tool in computing, industry and other fields, died on May 13 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 90. The cause was complications from diabetes and heart disease, his
 Leonid Khachiyan, a Russian-born mathematician who helped to advance the field of linear programming, which is used by computer scientists to schedule complex rosters of airline flights and to solve problems in finance and industry, died on April 29 at his home in South Brunswick, N.J. He w
 ATHANAS -- Anthony. Of Swampscott, May 20, in his 94th year at his residence. Beloved husband of the late Esther (Mitchell) for over 64 years. Devoted father of Anthony Athanas Jr. and his wife Maureen of Boston, Michael Athanas of Marblehead, Robert Athanas of Yarmouthport, and Paul Athana
 WOLF--Milton A. The Board and staff of the Ameican Austrian Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Ambassador Milton A. Wolf, who had worked so tirelessly for many years as our Chairman. Milton Wolf was the consummate diplomat. His distinguished service as the United States Ambassador to Au
 Brig. Gen. William Thomas Seawell, who commanded bombers in World War II and the cadet corps at the Air Force Academy and led Pan American World Airways, died on Friday at home in Pine Bluff, Ark., his birthplace. He was 87. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said.   
 ATHANAS -- Anthony. Of Swampscott, May 20, in his 94th year at his residence. Beloved husband of the late Esther (Mitchell) for over 64 years. Devoted father of Anthony Athanas Jr. and his wife Maureen of Boston, Michael Athanas of Marblehead, Robert Athanas of Yarmouthport, and Paul Athana
 JACOBSEN--Kenneth J. Of Manalapan, N.J. On May 22, 2005. Cherished husband of Leona (Memberg). Beloved father to Amy and Eric. Devoted brother to Alfred. After a courageous battle against cancer. Ken will be remembered lovingly for his selfless dignity and devotion to his family. Graveside 
 JICK--Leon. The Association for Jewish Studies mourns the loss of Leon Jick, founder and first president of the AJS, and esteemed scholar and teacher. Our deepest sympathies to his family.       
 KAMBER--Bernard Michael (Bernie). Died peacefully on May 22, 2005. He was 94 years old. He was devoted to his family and friends and was enormously loved by them. Bernie was one of the last rare breed of press agents from the golden years of the entertainment industry. His passing is an end
 KIRCHMAN--Milton F. Architect on May 22 at age 95. Dear husband and companion of Rose. Father of Ernest, Laura and Ann. Grandfather of Manoli and Laertes Manuelidis, Dana and Ronit Kirchman, great-grandchildren Thalia, Melina and Chloe Manuelidis. He served on the Board of NYC Health and Ho
 WOUK--Dr. Victor. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of our long-time friend and supporter and a renowned scientist who, with his entire family, was actively involved in our institution. His late mother, Esther Wouk, and his late sister, Irene Green, were active leader
 Paul Ricoeur, whose work on fundamental questions about the nature of human existence made him one of the most eminent philosophers of the 20th century, died Friday at his home in Chtenay-Malabry, outside Paris. He was 92. Dr. Ricoeur died in his sleep, Charles E. Reagan, the auth
 Sol Stetin, who led the drive to unionize the J.P. Stevens textile company when he was president of the Textile Workers Union of America, died on Saturday at a nursing home in St. Louis. He was 95. The cause was complications of leukemia, union officials said. In leading the
 Daniel Schwarz, who rose from clerk to the top editor of the Sunday department of The New York Times in a 44-year-career, died on Saturday at a hospital in Bradenton, Fla. He was 96. He died after injuring his head in a fall while on a visit to his wife, Peggy, who lives in a nursin
 Howard Morris, a character actor in the Golden Age of television best known for his work with Sid Caesar and for his brief, memorable role as the manic hillbilly poet Ernest T. Bass on ''The Andy Griffith Show,'' died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. No cause of de
 BRUSTEIN--Abraham B., on May 20th, 2005 in Eatontown, NJ. He was a dentist, a graduate of NYU Dental School, Brooklyn College and a WWII veteran of the U.S. Army. An avid artist, photographer and golfer, he practice dentistry for 40 years with his partner and brother, Milton Brustein. He wi
 CLARK--Elroy. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of Elroy Clark, a loyal caretaker of the Museum from 1966 until 2002. His gentle presence will be missed. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, Pres. Agnes Gund President Emerita Glenn D. 
 COOPER--Melvin L. The family of Melvin L. Cooper mourn his passing on May 21, 2005 after complications from heart surgery. Son of Benjamin and Eva Cooper, and born on May 13, 1927 in Brooklyn, NY, he was the former CEO and chairman of the Board of Union Corp., NYSE listed, from 1986 until 1
 GILBERT--Justin. 88 years old, passed away on May 10, 2005. Former journalist New York Daily Mirror, and publicist Columbia Pictures, London. Retired to Albuquerque, NM. Is survived by wife, two daughters, three grandchildren. He will be missed.       
 LEVINE--Burton. Of Rye Brook, NY. Died May 24, 2005, at age 81. Born March 28, 1924, in Brooklyn to Julius and Rose (Kornberg) Levine. He served in the US Navy during WWII. Burton was the owner of The Village Shoe Store in Scarsdale, NY. He was a member of Willow Ridge Country Club, a Hadas
 McLAUGHLIN--Harold J. 90, the former General Assistant Superintendent for the Metropolitan Transit Authority from 1965 to 1977, died Sunday at Columbia Memorial Hospital in Hudson, NY. He is survived by his wife, Helene, of 60 years; two sons, Robert and Richard; daughter, Maureen Lucia; ei
 STETIN--Sol. Labor leader and activist died May 21, 2005 at the age of 95. He is survived by his wife of 71 years, Frieda, two daughters, Sondra Gash of Lebanon, NJ and Myra Levine of St. Louis, MO, a sister, Sophie Sitnick of New York City, two sons-in-law, Ira Gash and Robert Levine, five
 TARNOPOL--Michael ''Mickey''. Of New York City on May 23. Beloved husand of Lynne (Lichtenstein). Loving father of Lori (Moore) and Lisa (Silverman) and fatherin-law of David Moore. Adored grandfather of Jami and Nicholas Moore and Lucy and Jack Silverman. Vice Chairman of Bear Stearns, Vic
 THURSTON--Paul. Memorial mass 11:30AM, June 7, his birthday, Holy Name Church, 96th & Amsterdam Ave, NYC.       
 WILSON--Derek R. Beloved son and brother, died after a seven year battle with cancer on May 23, 2005 at his Gretna, LA home. He was 38 years old. He was a graduate of St. Stanislaus High School in Bay St. Louis, MS and received his degree from the University of Mississippi in Oxford, MS. He
 Ismail Merchant, whose filmmaking collaboration with James Ivory created a genre of films with visually sumptuous settings that told literate tales of individuals trying to adapt to shifting societal values, died yesterday in a London hospital. He was 68. Mr. Merchant's New York off
 LURIE--Sanford S. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its Vice-President. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 MARQUEZ--Jorje, of Manhattan, NY, age 70. Famous senior captain from The Four Seasons restaurant, suddenly passed away on May 22nd at his Manhattan apartment. Devoted father of George and Solange, who will be remembered with affection by all who came in contact with him. Service will be at 
 MINKOFF -- Harry. Passed away at his home in Great Neck, NY on May 7, 2005 at the age of 87. Born in Brooklyn on March 28, 1918. Graduated CCNY in 1940, married Ruth Blumenfeld the same year. Fought in the Battle of the Bulge during WWII. After the war he founded Gift-Pax, an international 
 ROBINS -- Stanley, 80, of Ocean Township, formerly of West Orange, died Tuesday, May 24 at St. Barnabas Hospice, Long Branch. He was born in the Bronx, NY and raised in Brooklyn. He is survived by his loving wife of 54 years, Janice; his children Andrew Robins and Dr. Michele Schultz Robins
 SCHEIN--Lawrence. Loving husband, father, and grandfather; gentle, kind, caring, easy going, erudite, and humorous man; highly respected and accomplished research sociologist. He will be missed dearly by his wife Rose, children Julie and Robert, and their families. Services Friday, 11AM, at
 TARNOPOL--Michael ''Mickey'' of New York City on May 23. Beloved husband of Lynne (Lichtenstein). Loving father of Lori (Moore) and Lisa (Silverman) and fatherin-law of David Moore. Adored grandfather of Jami and Nicholas Moore and Lucy and Jack Silverman. Vice Chairman of Bear Stearns, Vic
 Richard Lewine, a Broadway composer and television producer, and a custodian of the legacy of Richard Rodgers, a second cousin, died on May 19 at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. The death was announced by his family. Mr. Lewine's Broadway credentials reached back to 1934, 
 Sunil Dutt, the rebel-hero of Indian cinema, who leveraged his Bollywood celebrity into national political influence, died on Wednesday at his home in Mumbai. He was 75. The cause was cardiac arrest, an aide told The Press Trust of India, the state-owned agency. Mr. Dutt bec
 Harold R. Tyler Jr., a prominent lawyer and a former deputy attorney general and federal judge, who was frequently enlisted to provide judicial balance on legal panels considering contentious issues, died on Wednesday outside his apartment in Manhattan. He was 83. The death was anno
 Dr. Keiiti Aki, a seismologist whose penetrating studies of the behavior and origins of earthquakes contributed to a deeper understanding of natural disasters, died May 17 on Runion island in the Indian Ocean. He was 75. The cause was a brain hemorrhage suffered after a fall, said
 Michael L. Tarnopol, a vice chairman of Bear Stearns and chairman of its investment banking division, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was prostate cancer, Bear Stearns said. In 1975, Mr. Tarnopol 
 HOLLANDER -- Leonard. May 18, 2005, age 86. Loving husband of the late Susan. Father of Eric, Seth & David. Brother of Zander and Phyllis Hollander, and Gertrude Brown. Brother-in-law to Joe Katz and Pattie Eakin, uncle to eight. Graduated CCNY, Ohio State, and NYU Medical School. Career as
 KRAMER--Abe S. Husband of Helen, died May 20, 2005. PhD, psychology. Therapist at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Brooklyn, N.Y. Abe was a pioneer in the treatment of addictive gambling. He worked closely with Gamblers Anonymous of NJ. Abe, you are forever in our hearts. Helen
 MELLEN -- Eugene. Park East Synagogue expresses deepest sympathy to our devoted member, Ben Mellen, on the loss of his beloved brother, Eugene Mellen. Sincere condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier       
 MERCHANT--Ismail. amfAR mourns the passing of Ismail Merchant, 68, a great friend to the Foundation and to the 40 million women, men and children all over the world living with HIV and AIDS. As a leading supporter of Cinema Against AIDS and countless other amfAR events, Ismail Merchant lent
 TARNOPOL--Michael ''Mickey'' of New York City on May 23. Beloved husband of Lynne (Lichtenstein). Loving father of Lori (Moore) and Lisa (Silverman) and fatherin-law of David Moore. Adored grandfather of Jami and Nicholas Moore and Lucy and Jack Silverman. Vice Chairman of Bear Stearns, Vic
 TYLER--Harold R. We are profoundly saddened at the passing on May 25 of our sole surviving name partner, the Honorable Harold R. Tyler. Judge Tyler was a partner with the firm from 1977 to 1991 and Of Counsel from 1992 until his death. Judge Tyler's distinguished career prior to joining the
 WILLSTATTER--Richard, 83 years old, passed away May 26th, 2005. Beloved husband of Gertrude, loving father to Patricia, Richard and Amy, loving grandfather of Sara and Emily. Graduate Yale, Class of '43. Recipient of the Knight of the Legion of Honor, June 2004. Memorial service to be held 
 Chico Carrasquel, the smooth-fielding Chicago White Sox shortstop of the 1950's who became the major leagues' first star player from Venezuela, died Thursday in Caracas. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, the White Sox announced. Carrasquel, a native of Caracas, was th
 Eddie Albert, a film and television actor known for his evocative portrayals of characters who ranged from the avuncular to the befuddled to the monomaniacal, died on Thursday at his home near Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 99. The cause was pneumonia, his son, the actor Edward Al
 DAVID--Marvin S. On May 26, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Judith. Loving father of Donald and his wife Evalyn, Marcia, Henry and his wife Clarissa and Sandra Rozzo. Adoring grandfather of Matthew & Alyssa, John, Cecily, Alexandra and Max, Jessica and her husband David, Rachel and Marc. 
 ELLIS--James H. Died suddenly on Thursday, May 26, 2005. Jim lived with joy and love for life, for his family, for his work, and for his friends. A passionate supporter of the performing arts, he was president emeritus of the Parsons Dance Foundation, board member of the Stamford Center for
 LEWIS--Richard Cohn, 84, of Hartsdale, NY. Loving husband of Harley and brother of Doris Hammon. Devoted father to James, Richard, and Thomas; devoted father-inlaw of Stephanie, Joan (Sapinsley) and Debra. Beloved grandfather of Adam, Zachary, Alexander, Samuel, Toby and David. Contribution
 TARNOPOL -- Michael L. (Mickey): Lehman Brothers expresses its sincere condolences to the Tarnopol family for the unfathomable loss of Mickey. He was a giant in our industry and respected by all who had the privilege to have known him. Richard S. Fuld, Jr. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
 WILLSTATTER--Dick (Richard). Beloved brother of Nancy Willstatter Gordon, brother-in-law of Dr. Sam Gordon, uncle of Sam, Jack and Peter Gordon. We extend our sympathies to his wife, children and grandchildren. We remember his courage, compassion, and accomplishments. Dick will always be ou
 Martin Lings, a widely acclaimed British scholar whose books on Islamic philosophy, mysticism and art reflected his own deep belief in Sufism, the esoteric, purely spiritual dimension of Islam, died on May 12 at his home in Westerham, Kent County, England. He was 96. His publisher, 
 BEDER--Michael. Died on May 27, 2005, after a long and courageous battle with Alzheimer's Disease. He was the dedicated son of Adele and Sam, beloved brother of Alan, cherished friend of exwife Marta and her husband Harvey, and loved and loving father of Nicole and Joel and grandfather of b
 BENDICH--Joseph. 87, of Sun City, AZ, died suddenly on May 21st, 2005. Devoted husband of the late Lillian. Father of Adrianne and Elaine, father-in-law to David, beloved grandfather to Jorden, Debra, Brian and Dustin and daughter - in - law Debbie. Adoring great-grandfather to Tyler, Rebec
 DWECK--Morris. On May 20, 2005. Beloved husband of Nina. Loving father of Robbie and his wife Karen Kisslinger and Laura and her husband John Aden. Adoring grandfather of Emma and Ava Dweck and Paula and Charles Aden. Dear brother of Henry. After more than 40 years with the State of Israel 
 ELLIS--James H. Died suddenly on Thursday, May 26, 2005. Jim lived with joy and love for life, for his family, for his work, and for his friends. A passionate supporter of the performing arts, he was president emeritus of the Parsons Dance Foundation, board member of the Stamford Center for
 FISS--Murray, 87, died May 21, 2005, of NY, ME and CA. Renowned Artist. Designer for Contemporary Living. Organizer of Unions. Ally of Partisans. Loving husband of Jeanette. Father of Eric, Ellen and Cinthea. Grandfather of Jacob, Emily, Daniel, and Adam. Loved by all he touched. Murray Fis
 GUTERMAN--Hans L., 87, February 5, 1918-May 24, 2005, passed away peacefully surrounded by his loving family. Donations may be made to St. Jude's Hospital.       
 HESS--Dr. Robert S. On May 27, 2005, at the age of 93. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of John and Tom. Dr. Hess practiced dentistry for 49 years. A retired Captain, he served the US Navy 1942-1971. Services will be conducted at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison A
 LEWIS--Richard Cohn, 84, of Hartsdale, NY. Loving husband of Harley and brother of Doris Hammon. Devoted father to James, Richard, and Thomas; devoted father-inlaw of Stephanie, Joan (Sapinsley) and Debra. Beloved grandfather of Adam, Zachary, Alexander, Samuel, Toby and David. Contribution
 LUBELL -- Nathan, ''Nate''. Beloved husband of the late Ruby Lubell. He was a 92 year old legend. He was a devoted and loving father to his daughters, Sharon (Kenny) Bolog, Gail (Lyle) Gillis, and Kathy (Martin) Randell, and the late Ronnie (Ronny) Itzler. He also leaves behind nine grandch
 PERRIN--Forrest G. Pianist, musical director, and society orchestra leader, died of pneumonia on Friday, May 27th, 2005, in New York City at the age of 88. He is survived by his loving wife Lesley Davison Perrin; two children, Wendy Perrin Baker and Christopher Scott Perrin; two grandchildr
 RAYNOR - SMITH -- Murray. May 20, 2005. Beloved husband of Virginia (nee Robbins). Loving father to Kimberly (Richard Rinkema), Alison and Spencer. He will also be missed by his grandson Benjamin and sister Gertrude Notman. Relatives, friends and members of the Savoy Company and The Yale Cl
 REDDIG -- William McKee han, Jr., 75, formerly of Westport, CT and New York City, died on May 21st at home in Fayetteville, AR. After graduating from Colgate University, he served as an officer in the United States Navy from 1952 until 1956. He worked as a reporter at the Richmond News Lead
 RUDY--Lester H., M.D., of Rockford, IL, formerly of Winnetka, IL died May 25, 2005. He was Executive Director of the American Board of Psychiatry & Neurology, Inc. from 1974-1986. He also served as Director of the Illinois Mental Health Institutes at Chicago, Director of the Illinois State 
 SEMANS--Dr. James H. A Duke University surgeon and urologist who combined a career as a leading medical scientist and physician with a passion for the arts and charitable causes, died at his Durham, NC home on April 21, 2005. He was 94. Semans was a pioneer in rehabilitative and urinary sur
 TARNOPOL -- Michael L. (Mickey): Lehman Brothers expresses its sincere condolences to the Tarnopol family for the unfathomable loss of Mickey. He was a giant in our industry and respected by all who had the privilege to have known him. Richard S. Fuld, Jr. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
 THURSTON--Paul. Memorial mass 11:30AM, June 7, his birthday, Holy Name Church, 96th & Amsterdam Ave, NYC.       
 TYLER--Harold R. of New York City and Farmington, Connecticut. Beloved husband of Sallie Norris. Dearest father of Bradley E., John R. and Sheila Gregg. Beloved brother of Murney Kelleher. Dearest grandfather of Haley, Sarah and Katherine, Gregg and Quinn, Terrence and Peter Tyler. Beloved 
 WILLSTATTER--Dick (Richard). Beloved brother of Nancy Willstatter Gordon, brother-in-law of Dr. Sam Gordon, uncle of Sam, Jack and Peter Gordon. We extend our sympathies to his wife, children and grandchildren. We remember his courage, compassion, and accomplishments. Dick will always be ou
 FULTON--Robert Edison, was one of the most interesting men I have ever known. He was a philosopher, musician, poet, director, cinematographer, aerial cinematographer, filmmaker and, most of all, an incredible man. Bob was highly skilled in all these areas. He won many awards including an Em
 HEYMAN -- Bella. Nelson named his baby girl after you Bella. Now there is a Bella Brandt. We love and miss you so much. Happy Birthday. Terry and Arty       
 LUBALIN--Herb F. His wit and work live on. Rhoda Lubalin       
 Donald Hillsdon Ryan, an American entrepreneur with a Harvard M.B.A. degree who built an overseas network of quick-fix repair franchises in busy cities, died on May 9 at his home in London. He was 80 and also had a residence in the Bahamas. The death was announced by his family.    
 BESUNDER--Seymour. Beloved husband of the late Lillian R., devoted father of Jon L. and Rhonda S. Cherished brother and uncle. Died peaceuflly in his home on May 27, 2005. Funeral services Monday, May 30, 12 noon, at I. J. Morris, Inc, 1895 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn, NY; 800624-8282.       
 COHEN -- Morris, Professor Emeritus. On May 27, of Swampscott, MA. Husband of the late Ruth (Krentzman). Father of Dr. Joel and his wife Sara of San Rafael, CA, and the late Barbara C. Nordwind. Brother of Louise Polansky and Charlotte Freed. Grandfather to Julie, William, Timothy, and grea
 GOLDSMITH--Leonard. 86, formerly of Caldwell, NJ, died peacefully at home in Tacoma, WA, May 28th. Born in Worcester, MA, a graduate of Worcester Polytechnic Institute, he played clarinet and sax in a big band. He served as captain in US Army in WW II, installing radar in Latin America. He 
 GURIAN -- David. Passed away on Sunday, May 22, at the age 92. A New York City fireman for over 35 years with many rescues to his credit. He is survived by his wife, daughter Donna, son Wayne, sister Ida Leben and brother Elias Gurian. No funeral services. His body was donated for medical r
 HESS--Dr. Robert S. On May 27, 2005, at the age of 93. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of John and Tom. Dr. Hess practiced dentistry for 49 years. A retired Captain, he served the US Navy 1942-1971. Services will be conducted at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison A
 LATEINER -- Isidore. The great violinist, died May 26, Amsterdam. He is deeply mourned by Thecla Berghuis, Jacob Lateiner, Edith Grosz, Matthias Kadar, Jochem Slothouwer, nephews David, Larry, Samuel, Teddy Gross, multitudes of music lovers. Services June 1, Amsterdam. Details 212-877-3738.
 LIBERMAN--Joseph. On May 27, 2005. Loving husband of Harriet. Devoted father of David. Fond brother of Leo Liberman and Tesse Sadowsky. Also survived by five grandchildren. He was a Vice President of Valley Forge Division of Avent and devoted Gabbi of Atlantic Beach Jewish Center for many y
 RAYNOR - SMITH -- Murray. May 20, 2005. Beloved husband of Virginia (nee Robbins). Loving father to Kimberly (Richard Rinkema), Alison and Spencer. He will also be missed by his grandson Benjamin and sister Gertrude Notman. Relatives, friends and members of the Savoy Company and The Yale Cl
 REDDIG -- William McKee han, Jr., 75, formerly of Westport, CT and New York City, died on May 21st at home in Fayetteville, AR. After graduating from Colgate University, he served as an officer in the United States Navy from 1952 until 1956. He worked as a reporter at the Richmond News Lead
 FULTON--Robert Edison, was one of the most interesting men I have ever known. He was a philosopher, musician, poet, director, cinematographer, aerial cinematographer, filmmaker and, most of all, an incredible man. Bob was highly skilled in all these areas. He won many awards including an Em
 Oscar Brown Jr., a singer, songwriter, playwright and actor known for his distinctive blend of show-business savvy and social consciousness, died on Sunday in a Chicago hospital. He was 78 and lived in Chicago. The cause was complications of a blood infection, his family said.      
 BERNHAUT--Melvin Sanford, 74, of Livingston, NJ. Beloved husband of Judy, devoted father of Nancy Scott and her husband Bruce, Steven and his wife Vijay, David and his wife Gayle. Loving grandfather of five. Funeral services will be held Bernheim-Apter-Kreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel, Liv
 ELLIS--James H. Died suddenly on Thursday, May 26, 2005. Jim lived with joy and love for life, for his family, for his work, and for his friends. A passionate supporter of the performing arts, he was president emeritus of the Parsons Dance Foundation, board member of the Stamford Center for
 GREEN--James Wilder. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of Wilder Green. Wilder was an invaluable colleague from 1956 until 1970, first working in the Department of Architecture and Design, as a key member of the 1964 expansion team, and ultimate
 HEALEY -- John Anthony, ''Tony.'' Died on May 28 in New York City at the age of 69 after long suffering from the effects of the neurological disease Multiple Systems Atrophy (MSA). He is survived by his beloved family: wife Louise, daughter Virginia, son John, daughter-inlaw Christina and t
 ISRAELSKI--Sam, is survived by his wife Shery, three sons, eight grandchildren, and his sister. Born in Wloclawek, Poland on January 23, 1925. Of seven family members only he and his sister Sally survived the Holocaust. From 1939-1945 Sam survived as a prisoner in labor and extermination ca
 KLEIN--Victor, 65, died of cancer in the morning of May 28, 2005 at Beth Israel Hospital. Devoted husband of Dorothy and loving father of Emily, caregiving son of his mother, Sadie, age 99. Brother of noted, iconoclastic author of novels for young people, Norma Klein. Himself a hospital soc
 MUDD--Sidney P. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Sidney P. Mudd, extraordinary friend, longstanding member and Chair of the Board of Trustees. He believed passionately in the mission of the College, and with gentle, steady hand led us to new heights thr
 PERRIN--Forrest G. Pianist, musical director, and society orchestra leader, died of pneumonia on Friday, May 27th, 2005, in New York City at the age of 88. He is survived by his loving wife Lesley Davison Perrin; two children, Wendy Perrin Baker and Christopher Scott Perrin; two grandchildr
 TARNOPOL -- Mickey. The Board of Governors, Membership and Staff of the East Hampton Tennis Club extend our deepest sympathy to the family of our esteeemed member Mickey Tarnopol on his untimely passing. Jeff S. Krevat, President       
 TYLER--Harold R. of New York City and Farmington, Connecticut. Beloved husband of Sallie Norris. Dearest father of Bradley E., John R. and Sheila Gregg. Beloved brother of Murney Kelleher. Dearest grandfather of Haley, Sarah and Katherine, Gregg and Quinn, Terrence and Peter Tyler. Beloved 
 WESTIN--Eliot, died May 29 at the age of 101. Beloved husband of Florence, father of Av, grandfather of Mark and adored uncle of many nieces and nephews and their children, and many friends. He was a life-loving, peopleloving citizen of New York City. His warmth and wit and generosity towar
 WIDMER--Robert. Of New York City, died May 28, 2005. Born in Perth, Western Australia, Bob served the United Nations since 1947. He was the beloved husband of the late Freny, father of Carolyn and Linda, grandfather of Diana, and devoted friend of Cathy Campen. Family and friends will gathe
 ZUCKERMAN--Pearl Jacobs, on May 29th, 2005. Beloved and devoted wife for over 60 years of Melvin. Loving mother of Stuart and his wife, Carol, and of Richard and his wife, Linda. Proud and loving grandmother of Kate, Julia, and Emily. Her love will always enrich our lives. Funeral services 
