 Alfred C. Ulmer Jr., a former official of the Office of Strategic Services and the Central Intelligence Agency, died on June 22 in Virginia Beach. He was 83. Mr. Ulmer did intelligence work in the Navy in World War II and then joined the O.S.S. He served in Turkey, Egypt, Italy and 
 Arnold Black, a violinist and a composer of concert works, theater music and film scores who was also the founding director of the Mohawk Trail Concerts chamber series in Shelburne Falls, Mass., died on Sunday at his home in Charlemont, Mass. He was 77. The cause was undetermined, b
 Donald Henry Parker, who invented a color-coded reading program 40 years ago that has been used by millions of schoolchildren around the world, died on June 14 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 88. Dr. Parker's program, SRA Reading Laboratories, was one of the first programs inte
 John V. Aspinall, a rakish millionaire who made his fortune in the port-and-cigar world of upper-class gambling tables in London and devoted it to creating country estates for breeding gorillas and tigers -- species he said he preferred to humans -- died on Thursday in London. He was 74.   
 William J. Garry, the garrulous editor of Bon Appetit magazine whose editorial eye focused on epicurean pleasures as well as home entertaining, died on Thursday in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 56. The cause was lung cancer, said Maurie Perl, a spokeswoman for Conde Nast Publi
 Paul L. Erdos, a longtime market research executive who was an authority on mail surveys, died on Wednesday at his home in downtown Manhattan. He was 86. Dr. Erdos and Arthur J. Morgan founded Erdos & Morgan, a Manhattan-based market research firm, in 1947. It was the first marketin
 Terry Forrestal, a British stuntman who staged and performed action sequences for such Hollywood blockbusters as ''Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves,'' ''Braveheart'' and ''Titanic,'' died on June 10 in a jumping accident in Norway. He was 52 and lived in Berkshire, England. Mr. Forrest
 Walter Matthau, whose performances as cantankerous but endearing characters made him a distinctive leading man in movies, theater and television, died yesterday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said Lindi Funston, a spokeswoman for St. John's Health C
 Haskell Cohen, a longtime publicity director for the National Basketball Association, who helped create the league's All-Star Game -- a once-modest affair that has become an annual weekend spectacle -- died last Wednesday at his home in Fort Lee, N.J. He was 86. In the winter of 195
 The tales of daring escapes by Allied soldiers from a stalag or Colditz Castle have been told many a time in print and action movies. But Rolf Magener, a German business executive who died on June 3, was known for an escape from the other side, from a remote British internment camp in north
 Harold Nicholas, the younger member of the dazzling tap-dancing Nicholas Brothers, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in New York City. The cause was heart failure following surgery at New York Hospital, said Bruce Goldstein, a friend and a writer of the 1992 documenta
 Dr. Les Sirkin, a geologist who mapped the ways glaciers shaped Northern American coastlines from Long Island to Baja California, died on June 25 at his summer home on Block Island, R.I. Formerly of Garden City, N.Y., he was 66 and lived in Johnsburg, N.Y. The cause was apparently a
 C. Stanley Ogilvy, a mathematics professor who fell in love with the endless and evanescent possibilities of the ocean breeze, writing books about sailing as well as geometry, died on June 21 at his home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 87. Dr. Ogilvy taught for 20 years at Hamilton Colle
 Uriah Jones 2nd, who in 1968 became the first African-American to make a United States Olympic fencing team and who will be inducted into the United States Fencing Hall of Fame today, died June 14. He was 75. A staff member at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven, who declined to spe
 Charles Snitow, who created some of the nation's largest trade shows and a series of trade fairs in New York that helped open Eastern Europe to commerce during the height of the Cold War, died on June 28 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y., according to his daughter, Ann. He was 93. Mr. 
 Kemal Sunal, one of Turkey's most popular comic actors, died on Monday in Istanbul. He was 55. Mr. Sunal had a lifelong fear of flying but had been persuaded to take a commercial flight from Istanbul to the Black Sea port of Trabzon, where he was to begin making a film. Soon after b
 Paul Gerhart Hatfield, a senior United States district judge in Montana who as a Democratic senator in 1978 provided the decisive 67th vote to ratify the Panama Canal treaties, died on Monday at his home in Great Falls, Mont. He was 72. The apparent cause was a heart attack, the loc
 Gustaw Herling, whose memoir, ''A World Apart,'' was one of the first and among the most powerful and enduring accounts of life and death in the Soviet network of prisons and labor camps, died on Tuesday in Naples, Italy, the Polish Embassy in Rome said. He was 81 and lived in Naples.      
 John Hejduk, one of the most revered figures in American architecture and architectural education, died on Monday at his home in Riverdale in the Bronx. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Renata. Mr. Hejduk was Dean of the Irwin S. Chanin School of Architect
 Alan M. Fortunoff, who transformed a mom-and-pop store in Brooklyn selling pots and pans to a Fifth Avenue retailer specializing in discounted jewelry and home furnishings, died on Tuesday at his home in Old Westbury, N.Y. He was 67. The cause was liver cancer, said Arlene Putterman
 Arnie Weinmeister, the Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive tackle who starred for the Giants in the early 1950's, then forged a second career as a leader of the Teamsters union, died June 28 at a hospital in Seattle. He was 77. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said
 Enric Miralles, the renowned Catalan architect whose most important project, the soaring headquarters for the fledgling Scottish Parliament, is still being built, died of a brain tumor on Monday at his home in Barcelona, a spokesman for the Parliament said. He was 45. In 1998, Mr. M
 Dr. George A. Snow, whose laboratory experiments and theoretical calculations helped shape the modern theory of particle physics, died on June 24 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 73 and a professor emeritus of physics at the University of Maryland. The cause was a stroke, his 
 John J. Oliver Sr., a former president and chief operating officer of the Afro-American newspaper group, died on June 30 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 86. Mr. Oliver, a native of Brazil, Ind., was the grandson of John H. Murphy Sr., who founded the Baltimore Afro-Am
 Msgr. Charles E. Diviney, a former vicar-general of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn, died June 28 at a retirement home in Queens Village. He was 93. He was the second oldest priest in the diocese, which he had served since his ordination in 1931. He also reviewed books for Th
 John Wadsworth Barnes, who directed, produced or wrote more than 100 educational films, died on June 27 at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Brooklyn. In 1953 Mr. Barnes received an Academy Award nomination for ''The Living City,'' his docum
 Ray Scherer, a former White House correspondent for NBC News who covered six presidents, from Harry S. Truman to Gerald R. Ford, before becoming an executive for the RCA Corporation, died on July 1 at his home in Washington. He was 81. Mr. Scherer's career in broadcast journalism be
 Dr. William David Kingery, who opened a high-technology chapter in the science of ceramics, died on Friday at his summer home in Wickford, R.I. He was 73 and had his principal residence in Tucson, where he taught at the University of Arizona. The cause was a heart attack, his family
 Walter Cassel, an American baritone who sang 275 performances with the Metropolitan Opera and 126 with the New York City Opera, and who originated a key role in Douglas Moore's opera ''The Ballad of Baby Doe,'' died on Monday at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 90. During his lo
 William J. McGowan, a founder of the New York City Police Department Emerald Society, a fraternal organization of Irish-American police officers, died Saturday in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, his son William McGowan said.
 Charles Alan Wright, an authority on constitutional law and the federal courts who represented President Richard M. Nixon at a crucial moment in the Watergate scandal, died on Friday at the North Austin Medical Center in Texas. He was 72 and lived in Austin. The cause was complicati
 Vahe Oshagan, whom leading critics call the most important Armenian-language poet in exile, died on June 30 in Philadelphia. He was 78. He died of complications after heart surgery, said his son Ara. Mr. Oshagan, who also taught and wrote short stories and literary criticism
 Harold Aks, a conductor and music teacher at Sarah Lawrence College and the Dalton School for nearly half a century whose amateur vocal group became a respected part of New York's musical life in the 1950's and 60's, died on June 30 while on vacation in the Canadian Rockies. He was 78 and l
 Harold Sack, the nation's pre-eminent dealer in American period furniture, who paid a staggering $12.1 million for an 18th-century Newport desk-bookcase in 1989, died on Saturday night after a brief hospitalization at the South Nassau Communities Hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 89 and li
 James C. Quayle, a newspaper publisher from Indiana and the father of former Vice President Dan Quayle, died on Friday at 79. Mr. Quayle died at a care center in Sun City West, Ariz., where he had been treated for two and a half years, said his wife, Corinne Pulliam Quayle of Wicken
 A futurist who changed his given name to something a little more forward looking, FM-2030 to be specific, died Saturday night at a friend's Manhattan apartment. An author, teacher and consultant to corporations, he was 69 and lived in Miami. The FM might have stood for Future Man, F
 Karl Sweetan, a National Football League quarterback in the late 1960's who was later accused of orchestrating a football espionage scheme involving a stolen playbook, died July 2 in Las Vegas. He was 57. The cause was complications of vascular surgery, his family said. Stea
 Seth Ward, a hard-driving Arkansas businessman who was a peripheral figure in the scandals that embarrassed the Clinton administration and brought down his son-in-law, Webster L. Hubbell, died on Sunday in Little Rock. He was 79. The cause of death was heart failure, the family said
 Henri Gault, a journalist and food critic, who with his longtime colleague Christian Millau gave the name nouvelle cuisine to modern French cooking, died at his summer home at St.-Sulpice-en-Pareds in southwestern France Monday. He was 71. The cause of death was a heart attack, acco
 Vincent D. McDonnell, whose witty charm as New York State's chief labor mediator helped to settle disputes involving workers ranging from gravediggers to Radio City Music Hall Rockettes, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was heart fail
 Former Congressman William J. Randall, a conservative Democrat who represented his native Independence, Mo., from 1959 to 1977, died there on Friday. He was 90. Mr. Randall, a lawyer, was an unabashed champion of Independence, the hometown of former President Harry S. Truman.       
 Robert Runcie, the former archbishop of Canterbury known for his outspoken views on the royal family and the government of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, died Tuesday night at his home in St. Albans, Hertfordshire. He was 78 and had prostate cancer. As the spiritual leader of the
 Peter M. Cicchino, a professor of constitutional law and jurisprudence at American University in Washington, died on Saturday at his home in the capital. He was 39. The cause was colon cancer, said his companion, Jonathan Springer. Mr. Cicchino was born in Kearny, N.J., and 
 Raymond T. Ryan, a former president of the Welch Grape Juice Company who helped turn it into the country's dominant seller of grape juice, died on July 4. He was 98. ''Welch's could not have achieved the success we have if Ray Ryan had not established the foundation,'' said Daniel P
 Corneliu Manescu, a former Romanian diplomat with a reputation for integrity who became a courageous opponent of Nicolae Ceausescu, his country's dictator, died on June 26 in Bucharest, the Romanian capital. He was 84. In the revolution in 1989, which led to the overthrow and execut
 James Hill, the leader and baritone voice of the Fairfield Four gospel group, died July 6 at a hospital in Nashville, The Tennessean reported. He was 83 and lived in Nashville. The Fairfield Four, founded in 1921, became one of gospel's best-known groups. They sang unaccompanied in 
 Milton Amgott, a Manhattan lawyer who counseled Albany lawmakers and counted some prominent American writers among his private clients, died Tuesday at his home on the Upper West Side. He was 81. He suffered a long illness, his family said. Over the years, Mr. Amgott represe
 Pedro Mir, the poet laureate of the Dominican Republic, who gave voice to the emotions of multitudes of working-class Latin Americans, died on Tuesday in Santo Domingo, his country's capital. He was 87. Mr. Mir, who was often called Don Pedro, wrote in Spanish. He was ''without a do
 Dr. Abraham Horwitz, the director of the Pan American Health Organization from 1958 to 1975, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 89. Dr. Horwitz led the health organization through a period of political, social and technological change. He also was chairman of the commi
 Jan Karski, a liaison officer of the Polish underground who infiltrated both the Warsaw Ghetto and a German concentration camp and then carried the first eyewitness accounts of the Holocaust to a mostly disbelieving West, died on Thursday in Washington. Mr. Karski, a retired professor of hi
 Keith Highet, a lawyer who handled more cases before the International Court of Justice at The Hague than any other American lawyer, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 67. The cause of death was complications from esophageal cancer, said his wife, Margel Lindzey Hig
 Prince Tomislav Karadjordjevic, the brother of Yugoslavia's last king and, until the birth of his nephew, next in line to the throne, died on Wednesday in his ancestral home 40 miles north of Belgrade. He was 72. The cause of death was cancer. Though related by blood to the 
 Jack Dalton, who was dean of Columbia University's School of Library Services, died on July 7 at his home in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Dalton headed the library services school from 1959 until 1970. The school was closed in 1992. While dean, he was
 John Morgan, a dashingly dapper dandy who took it upon himself to dictate to the proper English about proper manners, down to the correct attire for impressing a former wife's rich young boyfriend, fell to his death on July 10 from the window of his third-floor London apartment. He was 41. 
 John O. Pastore, the first Italian-American to be elected as a governor and sit in the United States Senate, and a dominant figure in Rhode Island politics for three decades, died yesterday. He was 93 years old. He had been in a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I., for treatment o
 Dr. Paul Henry Mussen, a child psychologist who wrote a classic textbook and taught for 30 years at the University of California at Berkeley, died July 7 in Berkeley. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, the university said. Dr. Mussen's books focus on interactions betw
 Robert E. Dierbeck, a documentary filmmaker whose interest in science and wildlife took him around the world, died July 7 in New York. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Janet. Mr. Dierbeck produced, wrote and directed films about a wid
 Franklin D. Miller, who won the Medal of Honor in the Vietnam War for single-handedly repulsing an attack on his patrol after he had been shot in the chest, died June 30 in Florida. He was 55 and lived in St. Pete Beach, Fla. The cause was cancer, his family said. In additio
 John O. Pastore, the first Italian-American to be elected as a governor and sit in the United States Senate, and a dominant figure in Rhode Island politics for three decades, died on Saturday at a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I. He was 93. ''Rhode Island is the smallest state 
 David Blechman, a co-founder of the Twinlab Corporation, a nutritional supplement company that has grown with America's health consciousness over 30 years, died on July 7 at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and divided his time between Commack, N.Y., and Boca Raton, Fl
 Louis Quilico, a Canadian baritone who sang nearly 300 performances at the Metropolitan Opera during his 25 years on the company's roster, died on Saturday in Toronto. He was 75 and lived in Toronto. Julie Giles, Mr. Quilico's publicity spokeswoman, said the cause was complications 
 Dr. Marcus Oliphant, Australia's leading nuclear physicist and a key figure in the making of the atom bomb -- a creation he came to loath -- died Friday in Canberra. He was 98. Dr. Oliphant entered the field in England under the guidance of Ernest Rutherford, director of the famous 
 Senator Paul Coverdell of Georgia, a soft-spoken but influential Republican leader, died tonight in Atlanta from a massive cerebral hemorrhage he suffered over the weekend. He was 61. Mr. Coverdell had undergone surgery on Monday in Atlanta, his hometown, after being hospitalized fo
 Paul Young, a British rock singer who sang with the group Mike and the Mechanics, died on Saturday at his home in Altrincham, near Manchester, England. He was 53. The cause apparently was a heart attack, said a British representative of Mr. Young and the band. Mr. Young, one
 William R. Corson, a retired Marine lieutenant colonel who was an expert on revolution and counterinsurgency and was nearly court-martialed for writing a book venting his disillusionment over the Vietnam War, died on Monday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 74 and lived in Potomac, Md. 
 William F. Whyte, a sociologist with a passion for reform who wrote ''Street Corner Society,'' the trailblazing 1943 study of Italian-American gangs in the North End of Boston, died last Sunday in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Whyte was a professor emeritus of sociology at Cornell Uni
 Allen E. Paulson, who set speed records as a pilot and airline executive but became world famous as the owner of the renowned race horse Cigar, died Wednesday night at Scripps Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. He was 78. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Paulson had achi
 Everett Needham Case, a former president of Colgate University who was also the chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the late 1960's, died on Tuesday in Waterville, N.Y. He was 99. He died in his sleep at a nursing home, said his son, James H. Case III. Mr. Ca
 William Russell Mote, a millionaire businessman whose love of the sea led him to build the Mote Marine Laboratory here into a major research center, died on Tuesday at his home on Longboat Key. He was 93. Born in Tampa in 1906, Mr. Mote, who spent boyhood days wading in Tampa Bay fo
 Lt. Col. Charles C.I. Merritt, a Canadian Army officer who was taken captive in the Dieppe raid of World War II but emerged as a heroic figure on a disastrous day for his countrymen, died July 12 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 91. He received the Victoria Cross, the highest 
 Samuel Barry Guze, an influential psychiatrist who worked to wed his discipline to medical science and its diagnostic techniques, died on Wednesday at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. He was 76 and lived in Clayton, Mo. The cause was bone marrow disease, said a spokesman for the
 Stephen Gendin, an activist and writer who founded a nationally known mail-order prescription service for people infected with H.I.V., died Wednesday in New York. He was 34. Mr. Gendin died of cardiac arrest while undergoing chemotherapy for AIDS-related lymphoma, said Sean Strubb, 
 Thomas J. Sardino, who as Syracuse's police chief strove to defuse demonstrations, disorders and racial tension in the early 1970's, died July 14 in Syracuse. He was 72 and lived in Syracuse. The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press said. Chief Sardino headed his ci
 John Coert Campbell, a former member of the State Department's policy planning council and director of political studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, died on Sunday at his home in Cohasset, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Campbell, a political scientist, wrote extensively on the Middle
 Dr. Michael Sherman Aldrich, a neurologist who explored and explained the mysteries of sleep and sleep disorders, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 51. The cause was bone cancer, said the University of Michigan Health System, where Dr. Aldrich founded the Sleep 
 Alexandre Barbosa Lima Sobrinho, a prolific journalist and politician whose career was intertwined with the development of Brazil for much of the 20th century, died on July 16 in a clinic in Rio de Janeiro. He was 103. In a career that endured more than 80 years, until his final new
 Ernst Jandl, an internationally known Viennese lyric poet whose work could be lighthearted or despairing, died on June 9 in Vienna. He was 74. The cause was a cardiac disorder, Franz-Leo Popp, a member of an Austrian authors' organization, told journalists. Last year Mr. Jan
 Leo A. Hoegh, a governor of Iowa and later civil defense chief for President Dwight D. Eisenhower, died on July 15 in Colorado Springs, where he retired 15 years ago. He was 92. Mr. Hoegh (pronounced hoyg) was elected governor as an Eisenhower Republican in 1954. Defeated in his run
 Sussman Volk, who owned a Manhattan restaurant that became a garment district social center for decades, opened and quickly closed what was said to be New York City's first frozen-food store, and invented questionable necessities that included the Cigarette Lighter That Lights From Either E
 Hananiah Harari, an American painter and illustrator, died on Wednesday in Halthorne, N.Y. He  was 87. Mr. Harari, who was born in Rochester, N.Y., studied with Fernand Leger in Paris from 1932 to 1934. He was one of a group of American painters who promoted the cause of internation
 Marc Reisner, an environmental writer and advocate best known for his book ''Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water,'' died on Friday at his home in San Anselmo, Calif. He was 51. He had cancer, said Joe Spieler, his literary agent. Mr. Reisner said in
 R. Patrick Thompson, the president of the New York Mercantile Exchange since 1989, died Wednesday in Bethesda, Md. He was 51 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, the exchange reported. Mr. Thompson spent 20 years at the exchange as a trader or execut
 Albert Takazauckas, who directed the original New York production of David Mamet's ''Sexual Perversity in Chicago'' and ''Duck Variations'' and went on to a career as a director of plays and operas, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. According to his fa
 Capt. Joseph F. Enright, the skipper of the submarine Archerfish, which sank the largest aircraft carrier of World War II, a Japanese ship whose existence had been unknown to the United States, died Thursday at his home in Fairfax, Va. He was 89. For directing the sinking of the car
 Alexander Dallin, an American historian of the Soviet Union whose family took part in the Russian Revolution but who was widely respected for the scholarly detachment with which he viewed Communism, died of heart failure on July 22 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76. He had a stroke the 
 Henry Mayer, a historian and critic best known for his award-winning revisionist book ''All on Fire: William Lloyd Garrison and the Abolition of American Slavery,'' died on Monday while on a bicycling trip with his wife in Glacier National Park in northwestern Montana. He was 59 and lived i
 Oscar Shumsky, a violinist and conductor who was renowned for the beauty of his sound and the luminous musicality of his performances of Bach, Mozart and Brahms, died on Monday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 83. Mr. Shumsky was one of the last students of Leopold Auer, the legendar
 Alvin L. Alm, a businessman and senior government official who helped create environmental and energy policy in Republican and Democratic administrations for four decades, died on Monday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 63. Mr. Alm was stricken at his home in 
 Claude Sautet, an award-winning director whose films focused on the lives of the bourgeoisie, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 76. The cause was liver cancer, his producer, Alain Sarde, told Agence France-Presse. ''My goal is to choose subjects or anecdotes, if you will, th
 John Wilder Tukey, one of the most influential statisticians of the last 50 years and a wide-ranging thinker credited with inventing the word ''software,'' died on Wednesday in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack after a short illness, said Phyllis Anscombe, 
 Olcott Damon Smith, who as chairman of Aetna Life and Casualty led the formation of its international and financial services divisions, died on Monday in Avon, Conn. He was 93. The two businesses that Mr. Smith believed would bode so well for Aetna's future are to be sold to ING Gro
 Ahmad Shamlu, a noted Iranian poet with a free-flowing style who was both at odds with the Iranian monarchy and disappointed with the Islamic movement that ousted it, died on Sunday in a Tehran hospital. He was 74 and lived near Tehran. He had long been ill, Iran's official news age
 Frank Wheat, a securities lawyer who became a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission and also a tireless battler against despoilment of California's deserts, died on July 21 in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in nearby San Marino. The cause was cancer, his family said.   
 Fred Lawrence Guiles, a biographer of Hollywood movie stars, was found dead on June 24 at his home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 79. Among Mr. Guiles's best-selling books was his 1969 ''Norma Jean: The Life of Marilyn Monroe,'' which was translated into 14 languages. The book became t
 Former Representative James Hobson Morrison, a populist Democrat who represented southeastern Louisiana in Congress from 1943 to 1967, died on July 20 in his native Hammond, La. He was 91. A lawyer, he was elected to the House from Louisiana's Sixth District, which included the stat
 William Harris, a dance writer and advocate for new dance artists, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother, John, of Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Harris wrote about dance for SoHo Weekly News, Dance Ink and The 
 William Simon, who influenced the study of human sexuality through his application of sociological methods and his rejection of traditional ideas of normal behavior, died on July 21 in Houston. He was 70. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Simon, who once worked at t
 Iain Hamilton, a Scottish composer best known for his operas and other vocal works, died on July 21 in London. He was 78. Mr. Hamilton was born in Glasgow and his family moved to London when he was 7. He attended the Mill Hill School there, and upon graduation he was apprenticed for
 Milton W. Garland, who showed up for a 47-cents-an-hour job at a refrigeration company in 1920 and stayed on until this May, died Thursday at a nursing home in Waynesboro, Pa. He was 104. Mr. Garland, who earned 41 patents over eight decades in the field of refrigeration, was honore
 Raymond Eugene Portwood Jr., who began working as an animator with the Walt Disney Company at 17 and went on to become one of the two principal creators of the pioneering and popular Carmen Sandiego series of children's computer games, died on July 17 in Windsor, Calif. He was 66. M
 Dr. Robert George Crowder, an experimental psychologist and an authority on memory, died Thursday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 60. Dr. Crowder gained wide recognition in 1976 with the graduate textbook ''Principles of Learning and Memory,'' which summarized the research done 
 Robert McFarland, a former correspondent, producer and Washington bureau chief of NBC News, died on Tuesday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 62. The cause was lymphoma, NBC said. Mr. McFarland spent 28 years at NBC News before retiring several years ago. He was wor
 Roberto Suarez Garcia, once one of the most-wanted drug traffickers in the world, died on July 20 in Santa Cruz, Bolivia. He was 68. His family said the cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Suarez entered the cocaine trade in the mid-1970's. He came t
 Dr. Abraham Pais, a physicist who helped build the conceptual foundations of the modern theory of elementary particles, then became a science historian and wrote one of the most acclaimed of all biographies of Einstein, died on Friday in Copenhagen. He was 82 and was the Detlev W. Bronk pro
 Jose Angel Valente, a cerebral Spaniard who believed writing poetry should begin with the word and not with the real-life world, died on July 18 in a hospital in Geneva. He was 71. He had cancer, The Associated Press reported. The poet, who was also a critic and translator, 
