 Alfred C. Ulmer Jr., a former official of the Office of Strategic Services and the Central Intelligence Agency, died on June 22 in Virginia Beach. He was 83. Mr. Ulmer did intelligence work in the Navy in World War II and then joined the O.S.S. He served in Turkey, Egypt, Italy and 
 Arnold Black, a violinist and a composer of concert works, theater music and film scores who was also the founding director of the Mohawk Trail Concerts chamber series in Shelburne Falls, Mass., died on Sunday at his home in Charlemont, Mass. He was 77. The cause was undetermined, b
 Donald Henry Parker, who invented a color-coded reading program 40 years ago that has been used by millions of schoolchildren around the world, died on June 14 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 88. Dr. Parker's program, SRA Reading Laboratories, was one of the first programs inte
 John V. Aspinall, a rakish millionaire who made his fortune in the port-and-cigar world of upper-class gambling tables in London and devoted it to creating country estates for breeding gorillas and tigers -- species he said he preferred to humans -- died on Thursday in London. He was 74.   
 BUXBAUM-Harry died suddenly and peacefully on June 29, 2000 age 77. Beloved husband of Penny (Sydonia), adored father of Robert & Carol, Joan & Richie, and Alan & Ellen. Grandfather to Mathew, Melissa, Courtney, Scott, Eric, Michael and Craig. Loving brother to Herbert and Lilo. He leaves c
 CLOTT-George. Of Monroe Township, formerly of Jersey City on June 30, 2000. The beloved husband for twenty-eight years of Gertrude (Granet) and the late Edna (Braverman) Clott (1971). Devoted father of Nancy Clott, Janet and Stephen Rotter and Brooke Dale. Loving grandfather of Zoe, Jason, 
 KAPLAN-George I. On Friday, June 30 of Palm Beach, FL and Boston, MA. Loving husband of Helene Rabb (Cahners) and the late Ethel (Bratt). Adored father of Ellen of Weston, MA and the late Peter and his surviving wife Sally of New York City. Beloved ''Poppy'' of Elizabeth Borgwardt, Alec Sul
 William J. Garry, the garrulous editor of Bon Appetit magazine whose editorial eye focused on epicurean pleasures as well as home entertaining, died on Thursday in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 56. The cause was lung cancer, said Maurie Perl, a spokeswoman for Conde Nast Publi
 BUXBAUM-Harry died suddenly and peacefully on June 29, 2000 age 77. Beloved husband of Penny (Sydonia), adored father of Robert & Carol, Joan & Richie, and Alan & Ellen. Grandfather to Mathew, Melissa, Courtney, Scott, Eric, Michael and Craig. Loving brother to Herbert and Lilo. He leaves c
 CASTANO-Pedro (Peter). On June 30, of Manhasset NY. Former Superintendent of Moore-McCormack SS Lines & Bulk Transport. Veteran of WW II, and also served in Korea and Vietnam. Beloved husband of Elvira. Dear father of Victoria, Roach, Robert Castano, and the late Peter. Loving grandfather o
 CHACK-Bernard. Age 86, formerly of Stamford, CT, died on July 1, 2000, in Boynton Beach, FL. He leaves his loving family: wife, Shirley; daughter, Holly and Richard Calabrese; son, Steven and Cindy; daughter, Laurie and Lynn Purnell and granddaughters, Lana, Sadie and Jessica. Mr. Chack was
 CLOTT-George. Of Monroe Township, formerly of Jersey City on June 30, 2000. The beloved husband for twenty-eight years of Gertrude (Granet) and the late Edna (Braverman) Clott (1971). Devoted father of Nancy Clott, Janet and Stephen Rotter and Brooke Dale. Loving grandfather of Zoe, Jason, 
 ERDOS-Paul L. Age 86, died on June 28, 2000. He leaves his loving family: step-daughter Kathleen Mero Mogul and husband Louis Mogul; grandson Jeffrey C. Mogul and wife Patty Page; granddaughter Judith L. Mogul and husband Daniel Kramer and their three children Ilona, Hannah, Joshua; grandso
 FELDMAN-Dr. Ronald. The Daniel Heumann Fund for Spinal Cord research notes with profound sorrow the passing of Dr. Ronald Feldman. Ron was on our Medical Advisory Board since its inception. His devotion will never be forgotten. Our deepest condolences on behalf of our Board are extended to 
 HAGGITT-Rodger C., M.D. The Board of Trustees, National Scientific Advisory Committee, and staff of the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of our esteemed colleague and dear friend, Dr. Rodger C. Haggitt. A brilliant gastrointestinal pathologist
 HODGSON-William J. Architect and designer, died in the week of June 19 from an apparent heart attack. A memorial service will be announced. Donations can be given to The House of the Redeemer, 7 East 95th St., NY, NY 10128 to complete his design work there.       
 HOFFMAN-Charles Stern. April 15, 1935-June 20, 2000. Adored husband of Barbara; Beloved father of Stephen and Stacy and Ron Rovner; Dearest grandfather of Michael and Carly; Devoted brother of Leo and Janet. Respected administrator of St. Charles Hospital, Port Jefferson. Charles was a gent
 HUFNAGEL-James R., 73, on June 30, 2000. USMA West Point class of 1950. Veteran of Korea. Survived by his loving daughter Nancy Sauer, devoted grandson Jonathan Sauer and friend Mariana von Dobeneck. Funeral Monday, 11 AM, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave (exit 17 Saw Mill), Dobb
 JAIVEN-Saul J., M.D. 85 of Stamford on Thursday June 29, 2000, at Stamford Hospital. Dr. Javien was a member of the State Medical Association and the Stamford Medical Association. He served in the U.S. Army Medical Corps, during WWII in the European Theatre. Survivors include two sisters Be
 KAPLAN-George I. On Friday, June 30, of Palm Beach, FL, and Boston, MA. Loving husband of Helene Rabb (Cahners) and the late Ethel (Bratt). Adored father of Ellen of Weston, MA and the late Peter and his surviving wife Sally of New York City. Beloved ''Poppy'' of Elizabeth Borgwardt, Alec S
 KATZ-Mary Evelyne Keene Lamborn. May 19, 1912-June 25, 2000. Remember what peace there may be in the silence of God. KATZ-Stephen A. 70, formerly of Greenwich, CT, passed away at home in Tucson, AZ on June 25, 2000. He will be sorely missed by his beloved wife Barbara, mother Jessie
 LESSER-Howard, M.D. It is with deep sorrow that the Lesser family mourns the passing of their beloved father and husband, Howard N. Lesser, MD who healed and photographed the world creating a beautiful life for his family, patients and friends. He is survived by his loving wife, Florence an
 LOHR-Steve. Devoted husband of Ruth, died suddenly on June 21st. Steve embraced life with rare zest and great joy and optimism. A delightful man, who will be sorely missed and always remembered by all those who had the opportunity to have known him. Sincere sympathies to Ruth.-A friend     
 PRATT-T. Dennie, Dr., 88, died June 8, 2000, in Bar Harbor, Maine. He was a surgical fellow at the Massachusetts General Hospital and later practiced in New York City where he was a pioneer in group practice medicine, at HIP. Surviving are his family, Virginia Pratt Agar, of Rosemont, PA, a
 SCHWARTZ-Harold, D.D.S. 79, of New York City and Candlewood Lake, CT, on June 30, 2000. Loving husband of Joyce Pomeroy Schwartz. Beloved father to David, Evan and Billy and their wives, Harriet, Kristine and Terry. Adored grandfather of Rebecca, Jonathan, Alix, Liam and Delaney. Dear broth
 SIRKIN-Les, Dr. Eminent geologist, retired Professor of Earth Sciences at Adelphi University, and prolific author, died suddenly in his home on Block Island June 25, 2000 at age 66. Dr. Sirkin studied glaciated regions and coastal plains in the N.E. United States, S.E. Alaska, and the coast
 WEINTRAUB-Samuel R. On June 30, 2000. (His life was gentle; and the elements so mixed in him, that nations might stand up and say to all the world, this was a man.) For 76 years he was a revered leader in the precious gemstone industry as President and Chairman of the William V. Schmidt Co,
 WIENER-Mark J. On June 30, 2000. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Adored father of Sanford and Amy and of daughter-in-law Michele. Grandfather of Jacob and Madeleine. Dear brother of Arthur. Mark's strength, courage, dignity and love will be his family's inspiration forever. WIENER-Mark. 
 COHEN-Elias A. Although fortyeight years have passed, since our beloved founder, Elias A. Cohen, passed away on July 2, 1952, he is still remembered with love and reverance by the thousands of deserving boys and girls who were priviledged to come to his Tranquillity Farm and Camp for a few 
 Paul L. Erdos, a longtime market research executive who was an authority on mail surveys, died on Wednesday at his home in downtown Manhattan. He was 86. Dr. Erdos and Arthur J. Morgan founded Erdos & Morgan, a Manhattan-based market research firm, in 1947. It was the first marketin
 Terry Forrestal, a British stuntman who staged and performed action sequences for such Hollywood blockbusters as ''Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves,'' ''Braveheart'' and ''Titanic,'' died on June 10 in a jumping accident in Norway. He was 52 and lived in Berkshire, England. Mr. Forrest
 Walter Matthau, whose performances as cantankerous but endearing characters made him a distinctive leading man in movies, theater and television, died yesterday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said Lindi Funston, a spokeswoman for St. John's Health C
 Haskell Cohen, a longtime publicity director for the National Basketball Association, who helped create the league's All-Star Game -- a once-modest affair that has become an annual weekend spectacle -- died last Wednesday at his home in Fort Lee, N.J. He was 86. In the winter of 195
 BARNES-John W. On June 27, 2000. His family mourns the loss of a loving and devoted husband and father. Jeanne; Joshua and Julie; Judith; Ezra and Jennifer, Joseph, Lydia.       
 CALLOWAY-William C., M.D. Passed away on July 1, 2000, after a long illness. He is survived by his sister Althea, his sons Raymond, Thomas and William, his grandchildren Kathleen, Sean and Benjamin. He was 72 and was well known in the Harlem community. Memorial services will be announced at
 KELLNER-Robert J. Suddenly on July 1, 2000. Beloved and devoted husband of Estelle. Wonderful, loving father of Nancy, Andrew and Jeffrey. Proud adoring grandfather to Sophie Jae. Caring father-in-law of Chris and Samantha. Devoted son of the late Sam and Stella, and step-son of the late Sa
 LESSER-Howard. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of Howard Lesser, beloved father of our member, Florence Lesser. We express profound condolences to his children and grandchildren. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobi
 LEWIN-Barry. Owner of the antique lighting shop, Barry of Chelsea. Will be missed by his wife Jeanne. Memorial service to be announced.       
 REITMAN-Albert A., D.D.S. Of Roslyn, NY and Pompano Beach, FL, on July 2, 2000. Loving husband of Skip; beloved father of Jeffrey and Cherie, Judy and Richard Faber and Abbey Krantz. Adored grandfather of Kim, Glenn, Zackary, Brooke, Josh, David and Eric. Dear brother of Florence Reitman Ki
 SCHLOSS-Lewis. Fellow Holocaust survivor, good friend. A man of wisdom, loyalty and integrity. Our heartfelt sympathy to Trudy, Julie, Steven, Susan, and his family. Jewish Survivors of Latvia Steven Springfield, President       
 SCHWARTZ-Henry. 84, of Delray Beach, died July 2, 2000 after a brief illness. Mr. Schwartz was born May 16, 1916 in Brooklyn, New York, and moved to Delray Beach in 1981 from Floral Park, NY. He was a dress salesman for 48 years, before his retirement in 1981. He was a volunteer for the Sou
 WEINTRAUB-Samuel R. On June 30, 2000. ''His life was gentle; and the elements so mixed in him, that nations might stand up and say to all the world, this was a man.'' For 76 years he was a revered leader in the precious gemstone industry as President and Chairman of the William V. Schmidt C
 WUNDER-Paul. Teacher, movie critic and operations director at WBAI Radio died in his home on June 28, 2000. He is survived by his wife Bernadette, parents, Benjamin and Frances and sister, Laurie. A memorial service will be held at The Screening Room, 54 Varick St, NYC, July 6 from 2 pm.   
 The tales of daring escapes by Allied soldiers from a stalag or Colditz Castle have been told many a time in print and action movies. But Rolf Magener, a German business executive who died on June 3, was known for an escape from the other side, from a remote British internment camp in north
 Harold Nicholas, the younger member of the dazzling tap-dancing Nicholas Brothers, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in New York City. The cause was heart failure following surgery at New York Hospital, said Bruce Goldstein, a friend and a writer of the 1992 documenta
 Dr. Les Sirkin, a geologist who mapped the ways glaciers shaped Northern American coastlines from Long Island to Baja California, died on June 25 at his summer home on Block Island, R.I. Formerly of Garden City, N.Y., he was 66 and lived in Johnsburg, N.Y. The cause was apparently a
 C. Stanley Ogilvy, a mathematics professor who fell in love with the endless and evanescent possibilities of the ocean breeze, writing books about sailing as well as geometry, died on June 21 at his home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 87. Dr. Ogilvy taught for 20 years at Hamilton Colle
 Uriah Jones 2nd, who in 1968 became the first African-American to make a United States Olympic fencing team and who will be inducted into the United States Fencing Hall of Fame today, died June 14. He was 75. A staff member at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven, who declined to spe
 Charles Snitow, who created some of the nation's largest trade shows and a series of trade fairs in New York that helped open Eastern Europe to commerce during the height of the Cold War, died on June 28 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y., according to his daughter, Ann. He was 93. Mr. 
 Kemal Sunal, one of Turkey's most popular comic actors, died on Monday in Istanbul. He was 55. Mr. Sunal had a lifelong fear of flying but had been persuaded to take a commercial flight from Istanbul to the Black Sea port of Trabzon, where he was to begin making a film. Soon after b
 AKS-Harold. Choral conductor and educator. 78, died Friday, June 30, 2000, of heart failure while vacationing in Canada. Mr Aks was a prominent figure in the New York musical world for over 50 years. He lost his beloved wife of 28 years, Patricia, in 1994. He is survived by sister and broth
 BLEWETT-Colonel John H. Passed away July 3, 2000. Director of Security Time, Inc., and Corporate Director of Security Time Warner for the past 9 years. Colonel Blewett is survived by his wife, the former Helen C. Plasteras, originally from Manchester, NH, and two daughters, Kimberly and Aly
 COOPER-Dr. Mark Dale, passed away on Thursday, June 29, 2000. He was born in Tulsa, OK on August 23, 1959. Mark attended the University of Oklahoma, received his medical degree from Washington University Medical School at St. Louis and completed his residency in psychiatry at Mt. Sinai Medi
 GOLDSTONE-Abraham M. Of Forest Hills, NY and Bethlehem, NH, and formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on July 4, 2000 at the age of 91. He was a graduate of Brown University and received his Master's from Columbia's Teachers College. After 37 years of service for the City of New York, he re
 LESSER-Howard. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of Howard Lesser, beloved husband of our member, Florence Lesser. We express profound condolences to his children and grandchildren. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tob
 MLOTEK-Joseph. Beloved husband of Eleanor Chana. Devoted father of Zalmen & Mark. Brother and grandfather. Former Educational Director of the Workmens' Circles Arbeiter Ring. Co-Editor of the Yiddish Forward. Leader in the secular Jewish movement. Editor, teacher, author, poet and noted spe
 NICHOLAS-Harold. The New York Committee to Celebrate National Tap Dance Day mourns the passing of beloved Harold Nicholas, one of the world's greatest tap dancers and a member of our Advisory Board. This gentle and humorous tapmaster was our strong supporter from our 1989 beginnings. Sincer
 ORTEGA-Ramon, died July 2, 2000 at Rome Memorial Hospital. He was born June 2, 1946 in Long Island, NY, the son of Ramon and Madeline Santone Ortega, last known to have resided in the NYC area. Would any kin or anyone knowing of any next-of-kin please contact the Rome DDSO collect with any 
 ROBERTS-Dudley DeVore. On July 3, 2000, at the age of 90 at his home in East Hampton, NY. Mr. Roberts was founder and President of Cinerama Productions, which pioneered wide-screen movies. He also founded Roberts & Company, an investment banking firm which later merged with Kidder, Peabody.
 SCHWARTZ-Harold, DDS, 79, of New York on June 30, 2000. Survived by his wife, Joyce Pomeroy Schwartz, sons, David, Evan and Billy and daughters-in-law Harriet, Kristine and Terry, grandchildren, Rebecca, Jonathan, Alix, Liam & Delaney, Sister Doris Feldman, brother and sister-in-law, Lee an
 SULLIVAN-John Ahern, of Shelburne and Greensboro, Vermont, formerly of New York City, died July 1, 2000 in Shelburne, VT. He was born December 25, 1910 in New York City, graduated from City College of New York (1930) and Columbia University Law School (1933), and was a retired partner of Ca
 Paul Gerhart Hatfield, a senior United States district judge in Montana who as a Democratic senator in 1978 provided the decisive 67th vote to ratify the Panama Canal treaties, died on Monday at his home in Great Falls, Mont. He was 72. The apparent cause was a heart attack, the loc
 Gustaw Herling, whose memoir, ''A World Apart,'' was one of the first and among the most powerful and enduring accounts of life and death in the Soviet network of prisons and labor camps, died on Tuesday in Naples, Italy, the Polish Embassy in Rome said. He was 81 and lived in Naples.      
 John Hejduk, one of the most revered figures in American architecture and architectural education, died on Monday at his home in Riverdale in the Bronx. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Renata. Mr. Hejduk was Dean of the Irwin S. Chanin School of Architect
 AKS-Harold. Choral conductor and educator. 78, died Friday, June 30, 2000, of heart failure while vacationing in Canada. Mr Aks was a prominent figure in the New York musical world for over 50 years. He lost his beloved wife of 28 years, Patricia, in 1994. He is survived by sister and broth
 COOPER-Mark D., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D. Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M.D. Secretary Willi
 FORTUNOFF-Alan. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Alan whose actions always expressed his decency, intellect and committment to his family and the community. He will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Helene and their children. From Stuart & Harriet Levine. FOR
 HEILICER-Bernard, 79, of Plainview died July 2, 2000, of natural causes after a short illenss. He enjoyed a successful career as an aeronautical engineer at Fairchild Republic. His loving and cherished wife of 57 years, Norma, passed on in September, 1999. Cherished father of Sandra Barmak,
 HEJDUK-John. On July 3, 2000. Former dean of the Irwin S. Chanin School of Architecture at The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. The college mourns the loss of this distinguished architect, teacher, humanist and friend, who until his recent retirement had been professiona
 KAPLAN-George I. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member George I. Kaplan and extends sincere sympathy to his family and his friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 LAPOVSKY-Arthur Joseph, M.D. Died peacefully in Columbia, MD on July 5, 2000 at the age of 95. A long time resident of Brooklyn, NY he was Clinical Professor of Neurology Emeritus at the State University of New York Health Science Center at Bklyn and beloved husband, father, grandfather, gr
 LEVITT-Theodore. July 4, 2000. Beloved husband of Myra. Loving father of Joanne and her husband Robert. Steven and his wife, Lisa and Dana. Cherised grandfather of Alexandra and Sophie Levitt. Loving brother of Evelyn Ehrman. Service Thursday, July 6, 2000, 11 AM at Temple Israel Cemetery, 
 MATTHAU-Walter. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member Friar Walter Matthau, on July 1, 2000. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director       
 MLOTEK-Yosl. The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring (WC/AR) mourns the passing of foremost Yiddishist and pillar of our organization for almost half a century. Born in Poland, Yosl, forged a connection between Eastern European and American culture across generations, making Workmen's Circle the 
 MUSTALISH-Anthony W., on July 3, 2000, age 84, of Iselin, NJ. Husband for 61 years of Wanda (Machnowski). Father of Dr. Anthony C. and his wife Dr. Elayne Klarsfeld Mustalish and Paula Salzano and her husband Michael and Dr. Roger W. and his wife Sue Fisher Mustalish. Grandfather of Rachel,
 PAYNE-David MacGregor of Lyme, Connecticut, peacefully of cancer on July 4, 2000, at Connecticut Hospice, Branford, age 80. A graduate of Yale University (1941), he served in the U.S. Navy during WW II as Commander of a PT boat Squadron in the Pacific. He joined the New York law firm Winthr
 REITMAN-Albert. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished and devoted member Albert Reitman. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife, Selma, their children and their entire family. Rabbi Michael White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Michael J.
 SCHWARTZ-Harold, DDS. The Fellows of the Greater NY Academy of Prosthodontics extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Past President Harold Schwartz, a leader, teacher, mentor and dear friend of the Academy. SCHWARTZ-Harold, DDS. We deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed Ci
 Alan M. Fortunoff, who transformed a mom-and-pop store in Brooklyn selling pots and pans to a Fifth Avenue retailer specializing in discounted jewelry and home furnishings, died on Tuesday at his home in Old Westbury, N.Y. He was 67. The cause was liver cancer, said Arlene Putterman
 Arnie Weinmeister, the Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive tackle who starred for the Giants in the early 1950's, then forged a second career as a leader of the Teamsters union, died June 28 at a hospital in Seattle. He was 77. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said
 Enric Miralles, the renowned Catalan architect whose most important project, the soaring headquarters for the fledgling Scottish Parliament, is still being built, died of a brain tumor on Monday at his home in Barcelona, a spokesman for the Parliament said. He was 45. In 1998, Mr. M
 Dr. George A. Snow, whose laboratory experiments and theoretical calculations helped shape the modern theory of particle physics, died on June 24 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 73 and a professor emeritus of physics at the University of Maryland. The cause was a stroke, his 
 John J. Oliver Sr., a former president and chief operating officer of the Afro-American newspaper group, died on June 30 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 86. Mr. Oliver, a native of Brazil, Ind., was the grandson of John H. Murphy Sr., who founded the Baltimore Afro-Am
 AKS-Harold. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the death of Harold Aks, musician, educator, and emeritus member of the Sarah Lawrence faculty. A central figure in the history of the College, he was the legendary director of our chorus and chamber choir for close to forty years, bringing them to 
 BARRON-Michael S. With profound sorrow we record the sudden and untimely passing of our partner, Michael S. Barron, on July 5th, 2000. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Susan, daughters, Elizabeth, Dana and Pamela, their husbands and children, his mother, Jean Sack, his broth
 BREIER-Marvin. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Robin and Scott Gottlieb. Cherished grandfather of Ethan and Lewis. Dear brother of Murray, Robert and Harvey. Services ''Boulevard - Riverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island, at 11:30 AM, Friday. BREIER-Marvin. The 
 DUBIN-Jack. Age 82, died peacefully at home on July 6, 2000. The Dubin/Strong families mourn with deep sorrow at his passing. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Claire, his daughter Madeline (Leslie) Strong, his son Richard, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. He will be missed.    
 EASLEY-Edwin. Son of the Midwest, Purdue Scholar, loving husband, adoring father, devoted grandfather, a gentleman always. When our sister Connie married Bob, Ed and his beloved Ginnie became part of our family. We shared wonderful times. His sons, Bob and Tom cared for him at home where he
 FELDGARDEN-Benjamin. The Officers and Board of Directors of PubliCARD mourns the passing of the beloved father of Diane Goldsmith, wife of our Vice Chairman of the Board, Jay Goldsmith and extend our heartfelt sympathies to his dear wife Sylvia and the entire family. Jan-Erik Rottinghuis Pr
 FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our longtime friend and supporter, Alan Fortunoff. Together with his wife, Helene, he received ADL's 1998 Champion of Liberty Award for his commitment to justice and equality and to his community. We extend our heartfelt condo
 FOX-Herbert O. Columbia Artists Management Inc. is deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague, Herbert O. Fox, on June 29, 2000. During his fifty-four years with CAMI, Herb Fox served in a number of important positions. At the time of his retirement in 1993, he was Senior Vice 
 HEJDUK-John. In deep sorrow, we join Gloria and the Hejduk family in mourning the loss of John, one of the most esteemed graduates of Cooper Union. A giant of a man in many respects, he was a noted architect of the world, a dedicated educator, artist, visionary, writer and poet, bringing gl
 KABAK-Irwin, on Thursday July 6, 2000 of Edison, New Jersey. Beloved husband of the late Gertrude. Devoted father of Michele Weisman and Cindy Weissman. Devoted brother of Bertram. Cherished grandfather of Arielle, Margot, Derek, Alana, and Elizabeth. Funeral services will be conducted from
 KLOTEN-Edgar L. Of West Hartford, CT, died 7/4/00. He is survived by his wife, Norma and a son Gregory. For info the Sheehan Hilborn Breen F.H., West Hartford, CT.       
 POSNICK-Leo. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Jerry Posnick and family on the loss of his beloved father. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Joel Felderman, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 ROTHSTEIN-Jerald. Beloved and loving father of Debra. Devoted son of Peggy and the late William Rothstein. Cherished friend and nephew. He was a good man and will be missed by all who knew him. Service Sunday, 10 AM, at Riverside, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, New York. ROTHST
 RUDKO-Lionel. Lionel Rudko was a companion, colleague and cherished friend for more than five decades. Ever since our first meeting in his record shop when he insisted that I hear the first recording of a young violinist named Isaac Stern we became close friends in music, musical ideas, and
 SHERWOOD-Carl J, of New York, on July 4th, 2000. Survived by his wife Dora, son Bob, daughterin-law Karen and grandchildren Eddie and Samantha. In loving memory of a wonderful man.       
 SNITOW-Charles. The Advisory Council of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, mourns the passing of Charles Snitow, who, as part of a rich and full life, was a devoted supporter of the arts at Cornell University, and especially the Johnson Museum. We will miss his humor,
 STERN-Michael. On July 5, 2000. Survived by his devoted wife Ruby, sons Douglas and Richard, daughters-in-law Glynnis and Marsha and granddaughter Lindsay. Service, Friday, 11:00 AM, Washington Cemetery, Deans, NJ.       
 Msgr. Charles E. Diviney, a former vicar-general of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn, died June 28 at a retirement home in Queens Village. He was 93. He was the second oldest priest in the diocese, which he had served since his ordination in 1931. He also reviewed books for Th
 John Wadsworth Barnes, who directed, produced or wrote more than 100 educational films, died on June 27 at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Brooklyn. In 1953 Mr. Barnes received an Academy Award nomination for ''The Living City,'' his docum
 CILENTO-Orazio ''Ray''. The NYC Central Labor Council, its officers, staff and members are saddened by the sudden death of our friend, longtime labor activist and 40year-member of L.3 IBEW. Ray was truly a ''volunteer extraordinaire'' to this Council, not only for the outstanding job he did
 ENGELMAYER-Louis, of New York City, on July 6, 2000. Beloved husband of Ilene (Zelman). Loving father of Paul Engelmayer and his wife, Emily Mandelstam of NYC & Jean (Engelmayer) Kalicki & her husband, Jan of Alexandria, VA. Devoted grandfather of Sasha, Peter and Caroline. A memorial servi
 FORTUNOFF-Alan. It is with the deepest sadness that we mourn the passing of our dear friend of many years. He was truly a Renaissance man, with interests and knowledge in a wide range of subjects. His intellect, wit and personality set him apart. We will always remember him with great affec
 HEJDUK-John. In deep sorrow, we join Gloria and the Hejduk family in mourning the loss of John, one of the most esteemed graduates of Cooper Union. A giant of a man in many respects, he was a noted architect of the world, a dedicated educator, artist, visionary, writer and poet, bringing gl
 KREISBERG-Monroe. American Jewish League for Israel mourns the loss of our Board Member and long-time friend, Monty. He enriched our lives with his courage, wisdom & wit. Deepest sympathy to Rita and family. Donations may be made to the Kreisberg Scholarship Fund, C/O AJLI, 130 East 59th St
 LUCIA-Ralph J. On July 6, 2000. Beloved husband of Constance (nee Bochino). Devoted father of Thomas and father-in-law of Vivian. Loving grandfather of Danielle and Carolyn. Dear brother of Frank and Viola (Milillo). Also survived by three nephews, two neices and several grand neices and gr
 MONTAGUE-Lucius Alfonso. The Harlem Community has lost one of its valued assets. ''Monty'' was a respected businessman, mentor to many, kind and caring friend to all. Our deepest sympathy to his daughter, Gloria, and his family. Clarice Donaldson, MD       
 SWIRSKY-Leo J., M.D. The Medical Society of the County of Kings Inc. mourns the loss of its esteemed past president, Leo J. Swirsky, M.D. Sincere condolences to his wife, Judith, and his family. Martin Lee, M.D., President Clifford Cohen, M.D., Chairman, Board of Trustees       
 Ray Scherer, a former White House correspondent for NBC News who covered six presidents, from Harry S. Truman to Gerald R. Ford, before becoming an executive for the RCA Corporation, died on July 1 at his home in Washington. He was 81. Mr. Scherer's career in broadcast journalism be
 Dr. William David Kingery, who opened a high-technology chapter in the science of ceramics, died on Friday at his summer home in Wickford, R.I. He was 73 and had his principal residence in Tucson, where he taught at the University of Arizona. The cause was a heart attack, his family
 Walter Cassel, an American baritone who sang 275 performances with the Metropolitan Opera and 126 with the New York City Opera, and who originated a key role in Douglas Moore's opera ''The Ballad of Baby Doe,'' died on Monday at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 90. During his lo
 William J. McGowan, a founder of the New York City Police Department Emerald Society, a fraternal organization of Irish-American police officers, died Saturday in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, his son William McGowan said.
 Charles Alan Wright, an authority on constitutional law and the federal courts who represented President Richard M. Nixon at a crucial moment in the Watergate scandal, died on Friday at the North Austin Medical Center in Texas. He was 72 and lived in Austin. The cause was complicati
 BAZADONA-John F. January 13, 1948-July 5, 2000. Gifted artist and beloved father, he is survived by his loving companion Maria, his children Lisa and Adam, their mother Nancy, and his brother Michael; and his many friends whom John touched through his art and his warm friendship. John's man
 CORBETT-James Davidson. Of Sarasota, FL and Huletts Landing, NY passed away on July 6, 2000 just shy of his 90th birthday in Sarasota. He was the son of Theodore and Achsah Davidson Corbett. Jim was born in New York City and grew up in New Rochelle and graduated from New Rochelle High Schoo
 COURTIS-John (Turk). Passed away June 15 at age 73. Retired New York Times. Surviving are his wife Mary, a daughter Mrs. Kelly Flynn, three brothers, Tom of Patterson, James of Oakland and George of Totowa and two grandchildren, Kelly and Dina. Services were held at St. George Greek Orthodo
 FREEDMAN-Arnold M., Ph.D., Lt. Col., U.S. Army, Retired. Colonel Freedman was born in Manhattan on June 21, 1918. He attended St. John's University and the City College of New York. At the start of World War II, he was commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant and served as a combat Infantry Officer in
 HEJDUK-John. In deep sorrow, we join Gloria and the Hejduk family in mourning the loss of John, one of the most esteemed graduates of Cooper Union. A giant of a man in many respects, he was a noted architect of the world, a dedicated educator, artist, visionary, writer and poet, bringing gl
 HERMAN-Arthur L. Passed away on July 3, 2000, at the age of 90, after a brief illness. Formerly of Lauderhill, FL, and Lawrence, NY. Survived by his beloved Daisy, wife of 67 years. Loving father of Barbara Herman (Paul Cohen) and Janie and Herb Taylor. Adored grandfather of Randall and Ann
 RIGHT-Charles Alan. The Council and members of The American Law Institute mourn the death of our President, Professor Charles Alan Right. For more than 35 years Charlie played leadership roles in the ALI's attempt to improve the law and the legal system in the United States and internationa
 SWIRSKY-Dr. Leo Jerome, on July 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Judith, devoted father of Marjorie and her husband Larry Zelner, adoring grandfather of Jonathan Zelner. Caring physician with an exceptional commitment to his patients, the medical community, and the arts. He will be remembered wi
 WEINTRAUB-Dr. Daniel Ralph. Of Port Washington. Beloved husband of Sally. Devoted father of David and Jeremy. Loving brother of Joel and his wife Gloria, and uncle of Anita and Jody. Services Monday, 3 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY.       
 ZAUDERER-Jerome, father of Mark, father-in-law of Joan and grandfather of Daniel. A memorial will be held in his honor on Wednesday, July 12, 2000, at 6PM, at The Association of the Bar of the City of New York, 42 West 44th St. Friends and acquaintances are cordially invited to attend.     
 Vahe Oshagan, whom leading critics call the most important Armenian-language poet in exile, died on June 30 in Philadelphia. He was 78. He died of complications after heart surgery, said his son Ara. Mr. Oshagan, who also taught and wrote short stories and literary criticism
 Harold Aks, a conductor and music teacher at Sarah Lawrence College and the Dalton School for nearly half a century whose amateur vocal group became a respected part of New York's musical life in the 1950's and 60's, died on June 30 while on vacation in the Canadian Rockies. He was 78 and l
 Harold Sack, the nation's pre-eminent dealer in American period furniture, who paid a staggering $12.1 million for an 18th-century Newport desk-bookcase in 1989, died on Saturday night after a brief hospitalization at the South Nassau Communities Hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 89 and li
 James C. Quayle, a newspaper publisher from Indiana and the father of former Vice President Dan Quayle, died on Friday at 79. Mr. Quayle died at a care center in Sun City West, Ariz., where he had been treated for two and a half years, said his wife, Corinne Pulliam Quayle of Wicken
 BEARDSLEE-Eugene B. On July 9, 2000, of Brookville and Cutchogue, NY. President of Beardslee Transmission Equipment Co., Inc. Beloved husband of Jean E. (nee Adams). Loving father of Diane E. Davis, Robert C., Cynthia J. Falvey, William A. and Edith H. Dref. Cherished grandfather of fifteen
 GARFINKEL-Shelly. Cherished husband of Janet. Devoted father of Carrie and Mitchell. Loving son and brother. Passed away July 7, 2000. Services Monday, 12 noon, at Gutterman's Inc., 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, LI. We will miss him terribly.       
 HESTER-Melvyn F. On July 4, 2000, at age 61. Beloved husband of Laura Pires-Hester. Loving son of Ditta Hester. Dear brother of Grace Cox, Hayden Hester and Paul Hester. Adored uncle, nephew, cousin, friend, fellow minister and colleauge of many. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 
 O'REILLY - Terrence Francis. Born in New York City, September 27, 1924, died June 30 in Largo, FL. A graduate of St. John's University, he retired from Seagrams Distillers in 1977. For over 30 years he served the Catholic Youth Organization of the Diocese of Brooklyn as athletic coach and a
 STARBUCK-John W. Of Darien, CT, died on July 6, 2000, at the age of 82. He graduated from Lawrenceville School in NJ, and Yale University. He was a Commander on a U.S. Navy minesweeper during WW II. He retired from Ford, Bacon and Davis in NYC after a lengthy career as President. He was a m
 WRIGHT-Charles Alan. The Council and members of The American Law Institute mourn the death of our President, Professor Charles Alan Wright. For more than 35 years Charlie played leadership roles in the ALI's attempt to improve the law and the legal system in the United States and internatio
 ZAUDERER-Jerome, father of Mark, father-in-law of Joan and grandfather of Daniel. A memorial will be held in his honor on Wednesday, July 12, 2000, at 6PM, at The Association of the Bar of the City of New York, 42 West 44th St. Friends and acquaintances are cordially invited to attend.     
 A futurist who changed his given name to something a little more forward looking, FM-2030 to be specific, died Saturday night at a friend's Manhattan apartment. An author, teacher and consultant to corporations, he was 69 and lived in Miami. The FM might have stood for Future Man, F
 Karl Sweetan, a National Football League quarterback in the late 1960's who was later accused of orchestrating a football espionage scheme involving a stolen playbook, died July 2 in Las Vegas. He was 57. The cause was complications of vascular surgery, his family said. Stea
 BEARDSLEE-Eugene B. On July 9, 2000, of Brookville and Cutchogue, NY. President of Beardslee Transmission Equipment Co., Inc. Beloved husband of Jean E. (nee Adams). Loving father of Diane E. Davis, Robert C., Cynthia J. Falvey, William A. and Edith H. Dref. Cherished grandfather of fifteen
 CICCHINO-Peter. Died July 8, 2000. The Urban Justice Center laments the loss of our inspiration, our guide, our friend, Peter Cicchino. With heavy hearts and baffled minds we say good-bye to the best among us, may he rest in peace. And, if you have a chance, Peter, when you get to the top, 
 COWEN-Robert Miller, 88, of Rye, NY and Charlotte, NC died Wednesday, July 5, 2000. Survivors include his wife of 52 years, Dorothy Kohn Cowen, of Rye, and Charlotte, NC; and a son and daughter and five grandchildren. Services at Harry & Bryant Company.       
 De LEON-George James.Tifereth Israel-Town and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Barbara, son William, daughter-in-law Amy and daughter Amanda and to the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Abby Sosland,
 GOLDBERG-Steven L., M.D. The Department of Pathology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine is stunned and profoundly saddened by the unexpected death of Dr. Steven L. Goldberg. He was Adjunct Assistant Professor of Pathology and one of our most loyal alumni. He was a beloved teacher and excellent
 HEJDUK-John. The Irwin S. Chanin School of Architecture of The Cooper Union mourns the loss of its leader, Dean John Hejduk. We express our condolences to Gloria, Rafael and Renata and all of the Hejduk family. As an architect, an administrator and as an educator, we are all the beneficiari
 HESTER-Melvyn. Our sincere and heartfelt condolences to our Board member, Laura Pires-Hester on the passing of her husband. So many people were touched by his warmth and we know he will be sorely missed. Ackerman Institute for the Family       
 HESTER-Melvyn F. On July 4, 2000, at age 61. Beloved husband of Laura Pires-Hester. Loving son of Ditta Hester. Dear brother of Grace Cox, Hayden Hester and Paul Hester. Adored uncle, nephew, cousin, friend, fellow minister and colleauge of many. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 
 KAHANER-Jack R., M.D., 89, of 74 Shoreline Drive, Hilton Head Island, SC died Sunday, July 9 at his home. He was born in Brooklyn, New York, the son of the late Max and Rose Feintuch Kahaner. Survived by his wife Leah A. Slaff Kahaner; son Donald and his wife Helen Kahaner of Hilton Head Is
 POLLACK-Irving. Died at 86 of Alzheimer's on July 5, exactly 32 years after his beloved wife Marcella. Devoted father of Darryle, Carla and Josh; loving grandfather of Rachel, Leah, Aaron, Alli, Nicholas, Daniel and Spencer. He was an important pioneer and visionary who helped develop Miami
 ROCKWELL-John Marshall. Of Spring Lake Heights, NJ, on July 8, 2000, aged 87. Born in Chicago, Illinois on June 14, 1913. He was a creative entrepreneur, founding and heading Rockwell Products Corporation until its sale in 1968. An avid pianist, he often entertained family and friends with 
 SACK-Harold. Preeminent dealer in Americana and authority in American Antiques, age 89, passed away July 9, 2000. Born of Israel and Ann Sack in Lynn, Massachusetts, March 6, 1911. Graduated Boston Latin School Class of 1928. Graduated Dartmouth College, Class of 1932. Magna cum Laude, Phi 
 SAMUELS-Julius. On July 10, 2000 at age 87. Beloved husband of Mildred. Devoted father of Freya, Susan and Barbara. Loving grandfather of Daniel, Joshua, Meredith and Noah. For over 50 years he played an important role in New York City's wholesale fish industry. Funeral services Wednesday, 
 SCHAFFER-Pete N. On July 9 from prostrate cancer, one month prior to his eightieth birthday. An extraordinarily loveable man who endeared himself to all who knew him. A loving husband, adoring and proud father, grandfather, father-in-law. A soldier in World War II, he fought at Gold Beach o
 VOLK-Victor Felix. 90. Long-time NYC resident, died July 6, in Ft. Myers, FL, after several months illness. He graduated from New York University in 1939 as a chemical engineer and became a patent attorney with Anaconda Wire & Cable Co. Survived by brother, William Volk of Freehold, NJ.    
 Seth Ward, a hard-driving Arkansas businessman who was a peripheral figure in the scandals that embarrassed the Clinton administration and brought down his son-in-law, Webster L. Hubbell, died on Sunday in Little Rock. He was 79. The cause of death was heart failure, the family said
 Henri Gault, a journalist and food critic, who with his longtime colleague Christian Millau gave the name nouvelle cuisine to modern French cooking, died at his summer home at St.-Sulpice-en-Pareds in southwestern France Monday. He was 71. The cause of death was a heart attack, acco
 BRONSTEIN-Melvin, M.D. 4/9/24-9/1/96. A unique man, so dearly missed by his wife and children. You are in our hearts and minds every moment. Gloria and children       
 Vincent D. McDonnell, whose witty charm as New York State's chief labor mediator helped to settle disputes involving workers ranging from gravediggers to Radio City Music Hall Rockettes, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was heart fail
 Former Congressman William J. Randall, a conservative Democrat who represented his native Independence, Mo., from 1959 to 1977, died there on Friday. He was 90. Mr. Randall, a lawyer, was an unabashed champion of Independence, the hometown of former President Harry S. Truman.       
 Yahoo announced better-than-expected quarterly earnings today, quelling investor concerns that consolidation and business failures among struggling dot-coms might hurt its revenue base. Yahoo reported net income of $65.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, or 11 cents a share, co
 Robert Runcie, the former archbishop of Canterbury known for his outspoken views on the royal family and the government of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, died Tuesday night at his home in St. Albans, Hertfordshire. He was 78 and had prostate cancer. As the spiritual leader of the
 AMGOTT-Milton, lawyer and public servant, died in his sleep Tuesday at his home in New York City. He was 81 and suffered from depression. An attorney in private practice Mr. Amgott was active in New York State government and politics for decades. He served briefly as Assistant Attorney Gene
 CASSEL-Walter. New York City Opera mourns the death of its friend and colleague Walter Cassel. He joined the City Opera in 1948 and, for over twenty years, provided us with many memorable evenings in the theatre. More recently, he became a noted vocal coach to young singers, thus providing 
 GOETTEL-Manny. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member, Manny. He will be missed by all.       
 HEJDUK-John. The Irwin S. Chanin School of Architecture of The Cooper Union mourns the loss of its leader, Dean John Hejduk. We express our condolences to Gloria, Rafael and Renata and all of the Hejduk family. As an architect, an administrator and as an educator, we are all the beneficiari
 KANTOR-Bernard. On July 12, 2000, of natural causes. He will be profoundly misssed by his loving daughter, Arline, his adoring grandchildren, Andria and Stephen, and all those who were lucky enough to know him. Bernie, without your warmth, generosity, and laughter, the world is a darker pla
 LENIHAN-Thomas, F.X., MD. Age 78, of Mahwah, NJ, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, and Saddle River, NJ. Died July 11, 2000. A 1938 graduate of Xavier High School in Manhattan, he graduated Saint Peters College in Jersey City in 1941, and New York Medical School in 1944. He was affiliated with The
 TOMAI-James Vincent. 79 years old. A business executive, entered into eternal rest July 11, 2000. Mr. Tomai is survived by his wife of 54 years, Kathleen Egan Tomai, his seven children, and eighteen grandchildren. Mr. Tomai is predeceased by his son, James Vincent Tomai III, and his sister,
 Peter M. Cicchino, a professor of constitutional law and jurisprudence at American University in Washington, died on Saturday at his home in the capital. He was 39. The cause was colon cancer, said his companion, Jonathan Springer. Mr. Cicchino was born in Kearny, N.J., and 
 Raymond T. Ryan, a former president of the Welch Grape Juice Company who helped turn it into the country's dominant seller of grape juice, died on July 4. He was 98. ''Welch's could not have achieved the success we have if Ray Ryan had not established the foundation,'' said Daniel P
 Corneliu Manescu, a former Romanian diplomat with a reputation for integrity who became a courageous opponent of Nicolae Ceausescu, his country's dictator, died on June 26 in Bucharest, the Romanian capital. He was 84. In the revolution in 1989, which led to the overthrow and execut
 James Hill, the leader and baritone voice of the Fairfield Four gospel group, died July 6 at a hospital in Nashville, The Tennessean reported. He was 83 and lived in Nashville. The Fairfield Four, founded in 1921, became one of gospel's best-known groups. They sang unaccompanied in 
 Milton Amgott, a Manhattan lawyer who counseled Albany lawmakers and counted some prominent American writers among his private clients, died Tuesday at his home on the Upper West Side. He was 81. He suffered a long illness, his family said. Over the years, Mr. Amgott represe
 BINKERT-Alvin J. The NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital mourns the loss of the former Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Presbyterian Hospital in the City of New York. Mr. Binkert served the hospital for over thirty-five years rising from Comptroller to Vice Chairman. Our sincere condo
 CASADEI-Peter. DVM. July 12, 2000, age 58. Beloved husband and best friend of Marla. Adored father of Keith and Kevin. Survivors include his mother Abbie, sister Nina Ackerman and brothers, Mark, Michael and Thomas. Services 12:30 PM Saturday, July 15 at St. Gertrude's RC Church, Bayville, 
 DIAMOND-Irwin. On July 12, 2000. Beloved husband for 53 years of Pearl, devoted father of Dennis, Matthew and Cori, father-in-law to Elizabeth Geiger, Rae Kraus, Steve Baustin and the late Art DeFrancis. Patriarch and leader, he leaves behind an adoring family including best friend and brot
 ISRAEL-Rabbi Richard J. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. He had a distinguished career in Hillel, the campus rabbinate, as Associate Director at UCLA, as Director at Yale University, and from 1971-1985 as Executive Director of Hillel of Greater Boston. H
 KAN-Emanuel. I am saddened by the sudden death of my dear friend. He was a good man and he will be missed greatly by me and my family. Helen Karlsruher       
 KANTOR-Bernard. On July 12, 2000, of natural causes. He will be profoundly misssed by his loving daughter, Arline, his adoring grandchildren, Andria and Stephen, and all those who were lucky enough to know him. Bernie, without your warmth, generosity, and laughter, the world is a darker pla
 KARSKI-Jan. The officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee deeply mourn the death of Jan Karski, a courier of courage. Jan Karski was a diplomat, a Righteous Gentile, a messenger for the Polish underground resistance during World War II, and an eyewitness to the systematic
 MABEL-Leo P., 71, retired publishing executive and member of the board of the Forty Fifth Street Community Clinic (Seattle). A world traveler and a citizen of New York City, Freeport (NY), London, and Seattle, he will also be remembered for his progressive politics and as a tennis player an
 McDONNELL-Vincent & Eileen. The Board of Directors and Members of The Association for a Better New York send heart felt condolences to the McDonnell family on the loss of their parents. A founder and advisor to ABNY at its inception, Vinnie will always be remembered not only for his advice 
 PHINIZY-Coles. On July 12, 2000. He is mourned and will be missed by his family and friends. For many years, a resident of Port Charlotte, Florida, he was born in Augusta, Georgia on September 29, 1919, son of Coles and Mary Harison Phinizy. He was a graduate of The Hill School, as well as 
 POLLACK-Frank. Just shy of 100. Passed away in Florida leaving a devoted son Herbert. Beloved father to the late Alex and Albert. Loving husband to the late Lillian and Dora. Cherished grandfather of nine and great-grandfather to nine who will always remember him. He was the Founder of The 
 UNOWITZ - Bernard (Bernie), peacefully on July 13, 2000. Cherished husband of Debra, devoted father of Rose Unowitz and Nancy Muller. Loving grandfather of Emily and Brian Muller. His extraordinary kindness and warmth will never be forgotten. Graveside service Sunday, July 16, 11 AM at Shar
 Pedro Mir, the poet laureate of the Dominican Republic, who gave voice to the emotions of multitudes of working-class Latin Americans, died on Tuesday in Santo Domingo, his country's capital. He was 87. Mr. Mir, who was often called Don Pedro, wrote in Spanish. He was ''without a do
 Dr. Abraham Horwitz, the director of the Pan American Health Organization from 1958 to 1975, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 89. Dr. Horwitz led the health organization through a period of political, social and technological change. He also was chairman of the commi
 Jan Karski, a liaison officer of the Polish underground who infiltrated both the Warsaw Ghetto and a German concentration camp and then carried the first eyewitness accounts of the Holocaust to a mostly disbelieving West, died on Thursday in Washington. Mr. Karski, a retired professor of hi
 Keith Highet, a lawyer who handled more cases before the International Court of Justice at The Hague than any other American lawyer, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 67. The cause of death was complications from esophageal cancer, said his wife, Margel Lindzey Hig
 COCHRAN-Leon Khay. Son of Delores Cochran and Prince Bagration de Moucriani. Singer, former Wall Street broker, Farmer, collector of Russian art and many other areas, toured the world in the Don Cossack Choir, performed in summer stock, and in Russian theater in Manhattan for 40 years, a pe
 COLEMAN-Thomas A. Of New York City and Spring Lake, NJ on July 14, 2000 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. Son of the late John A. Coleman and Ann Meehan Coleman and brother of the late John A. Coleman, Jr. Survived by his beloved sister Mary Ann Hagerty of Sea Island, GA., his n
 DALTON-Jack. On July 7, 2000. Dean Emeritus, School of Library Service, Columbia University. Former Librarian, University of Virginia. Survived by his wife Margaret Stieg Dalton, son John Preston Dalton, brother Robert Dalton, sister Antoinette Nelson, nieces and nephews. In loving memory o
 DRIVER-William. The faculty, staff, students and alumni of Bard College mourn the passing of William Driver, Professor Emeritus of Theatre, who retired last year after 40 years of distinguished service to the College. Under his leadership, the drama/dance program at Bard flourished and beca
 GAYNIN-Henry Taylor, M.D., on July 13, 2000 in Palm Beach, FL in his 96th year of life. Beloved husband of Mimi and the late Mary. Adored father of Jonathan and the late Phoebe and much loved father-in-law of Karen. Devoted and doting grandfather of Noah, Mary and Julie. Dearest brother of 
 KARSKI-Jan. The Board and staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourn the death of Prof. Jan Karski, heroic diplomatic envoy of the Polish governmentin-exile during World War II, eyewitness to the Warsaw Ghetto and the Nazi extermination of Jews in Poland, and a ''Righteous Gentil
 KENNY-Stephen J. of Briarcliff Manor died early Friday morning. Born and raised in New York City, he was graduated from Manhattan College in 1952, entered the U.S. Army, and served in Korea. In 1954 he began his career in the Municipal Bond industry with C.J. Devine & Co, later absorbed by 
 LAEMLE-John L. Beloved husband of Lois. Loving father of David and Sharon, father-in-law of Nancy. Dear son of Helen. Cherished grandfather of Jessica. Adored son-in-law of Mae and Daniel Kalus. Services Sunday, 10 AM, at Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Ave., White Plains, NY. In lieu o
 MALLOW-Thomas T., of New York and Florida, died on July 13, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife Roberta and loving children, Deborah Mallow (Brian) Chenensky and Peter (Miranda Benedict) Mallow. Adoring grandfather of Dean Harris Chenensky and David Robert Mallow. He will always remain in ou
 MAZUR-Abraham. The members of Lindsley F. Kimball Research Institute, a division of the New York Blood Center, mourn the loss of Dr. Mazur, former Vice President for Research. He played a vital role in the creation of the research arm of the Blood Center, which he served diligently for many
 Prince Tomislav Karadjordjevic, the brother of Yugoslavia's last king and, until the birth of his nephew, next in line to the throne, died on Wednesday in his ancestral home 40 miles north of Belgrade. He was 72. The cause of death was cancer. Though related by blood to the 
 Jack Dalton, who was dean of Columbia University's School of Library Services, died on July 7 at his home in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Dalton headed the library services school from 1959 until 1970. The school was closed in 1992. While dean, he was
 John Morgan, a dashingly dapper dandy who took it upon himself to dictate to the proper English about proper manners, down to the correct attire for impressing a former wife's rich young boyfriend, fell to his death on July 10 from the window of his third-floor London apartment. He was 41. 
 John O. Pastore, the first Italian-American to be elected as a governor and sit in the United States Senate, and a dominant figure in Rhode Island politics for three decades, died yesterday. He was 93 years old. He had been in a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I., for treatment o
 Dr. Paul Henry Mussen, a child psychologist who wrote a classic textbook and taught for 30 years at the University of California at Berkeley, died July 7 in Berkeley. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, the university said. Dr. Mussen's books focus on interactions betw
 BLECHMAN-David, in deep sorrow on the death of my beloved brother on July 7. He leaves a legacy of passionate devotion, friendships and accomplishment. Dr. Harry Blechman       
 BURKART-Joseph S. The Continuum Health Partners family is saddened to learn of the death of Joseph S. Burkart, father or our colleague and friend, Joseph Burkart, Trustee and former Chairman of The New York Eye & Ear Infirmary and Trustee of Beth Israel Medical Center. Our heartfelt condole
 COCHRAN-Leon Khay. Son of Delores Cochran and Prince Bagration de Moucriani. Singer, former Wall Street broker, Farmer, collector of Russian art and many other areas, toured the world in the Don Cossack Choir, performed in summer stock, and in Russian theater in Manhattan for 40 years, a pe
 COLEMAN-Thomas A. Of New York City and Spring Lake, NJ on July 14, 2000 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. Son of the late John A. Coleman and Ann Meehan Coleman and brother of the late John A. Coleman, Jr. Survived by his beloved sister Mary Ann Hagerty of Sea Island, GA., his n
 FERRARA-Peter J. 88. President of Keep Chemical Company and of Emilia Ferrara Ltd. Died on July 9 at his home in Cornwall, NY. A 1934 graduate of Yale University, he was a member of the Chemists' Club and Yale Club in New York. He served as a Chemical Engineer in Building Defense Plants for
 ISRAEL-Richard J., Rabbi. Hillel Council of New England notes with sorrow the death of our founding Director, Richard J. Israel. Dick's strength, intelligence, commitment and humor were major factors in the development of the community's concern for the needs of Jewish college students, par
 KAN-Emanuel S. Of Teaneck, NJ on July 3, 2000. He was the founder and president of Old Dutch International. Beloved father of Benjamin and Alice Kan Cloos. Loving grandfather of Marina Cloos. Cherished friend of Helen Karlsruher. Donations to American Heart Association would be appreciated.
 KENNY-Stephen J. of Briarcliff Manor died early Friday morning. Born and raised in New York City, he was graduated from Manhattan College in 1952, entered the U.S. Army, and served in Korea. In 1954 he began his career in the Municipal Bond industry with C.J. Devine & Co, later absorbed by 
 MALLOW-Thomas T., of New York and Florida, died on July 13, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife Roberta and loving children, Deborah Mallow (Brian) Chenensky and Peter (Miranda Benedict) Mallow. Adoring grandfather of Dean Harris Chenensky and David Robert Mallow. He will always remain in ou
 MAZUR - Abraham. Professor Emeritus at City College of New York and former Vice-President for Research at the New York Blood Center, died July 12, 2000. He will be missed by his brother Sidney Mazur, daughter Ellen Thomson, son Stephen, his family and former students and research colleagues
 MECKEL-Wilfred J. July 14, 2000 at the age of 87. He died peacefully from Leukemia, which became aggressive in the last two months. Originally from Corona and then from Jackson Heights in Queens, his middle years were spent in Garden City and the golden ones in Baiting Hollow, NY. His wife 
 RYAN-Raymond T., 98, died on Tuesday, July 4, 2000 while living with his son and family in St. Louis. Born in Buffalo, NY on Dec. 12, 1901. A resident of Tucson, AZ since 1970. Beloved husband of the late Kathryn M. Ryan, married for 65 years. Dear father and fatherin-law of Jay J. (Nancy) 
 SACK-Harold. The Board and Members of The National Antique & Art Dealers Association of America, Inc., mourns the death of our long-time and valued member, Harold Sack, an outstanding leader in the field of American furniture. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his partners, his brother
 VALLES-James M., of Orange, CT, died July 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Renke; father of Anne, James Jr. and Andrew; and grandfather of Nikki, Matthew and William. His love of people, curious mind and passion for sports were apparent to all who knew himfrom his days at The Berkshire School (
 WALLACE-John A., 84, formerly of Staten Island, N.Y. on July 4, 2000 at his home in Baltimore, Md. Preceded in death by his wife of 57 years, Janet, and an infant daughter. Survived by two daughters Barbara Wallace of Chevy Chase, Md., and Kathleen W. Brown of Arden Hills, Mn, a grandson an
 KAPLAN - Bernard David. 1928-1999, Alumnus of Erasmus Hall, Washington and Lee University, Correspondent during the Korean War at age 19, Political commentator from Europe for Hearst Newspapers, NBC and ABC. With love always from his grieving wife Antonia.       
 SHUMAN-Andrew J. 7/16/70-11/6/88. Born 30 years ago today. Although his life was too short, he left a long and wonderful legacy       
 Robert E. Dierbeck, a documentary filmmaker whose interest in science and wildlife took him around the world, died July 7 in New York. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Janet. Mr. Dierbeck produced, wrote and directed films about a wid
 Franklin D. Miller, who won the Medal of Honor in the Vietnam War for single-handedly repulsing an attack on his patrol after he had been shot in the chest, died June 30 in Florida. He was 55 and lived in St. Pete Beach, Fla. The cause was cancer, his family said. In additio
 John O. Pastore, the first Italian-American to be elected as a governor and sit in the United States Senate, and a dominant figure in Rhode Island politics for three decades, died on Saturday at a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I. He was 93. ''Rhode Island is the smallest state 
 COCHRAN-Leon Khay. Son of Delores Cochran and Prince Bagration de Moucriani. Singer, former Wall Street broker, Farmer, collector of Russian art and many other areas, toured the world in the Don Cossack Choir, performed in summer stock, and in Russian theater in Manhattan for 40 years, a pe
 COLEMAN-Thomas A. Of New York City and Spring Lake, NJ on July 14, 2000 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. Son of the late John A. Coleman and Ann Meehan Coleman and brother of the late John A. Coleman, Jr. Survived by his beloved sister Mary Ann Hagerty of Sea Island, GA., his n
 DANGLER-Hugh Frost. Retired international marketing director for Readers Digest and a cup winning yachtsman died July 9, 2000. He was 74 and lived in New Suffolk, LI, NY. A lifelong naturalist and stimulating conversationalist, he spent his last two years working on a novel. Born in Lake Fo
 ELY-Franklin Jonathan. Died July 10, 2000 at his home in Utica at the age of 87. Mr. Ely was born in Chicago January 30, 1913, the son of Geraldine S. and Franklin J. Ely, Sr. Mr. Ely attended Deerfield Academy and received a BA degree in 1935 from Hamilton College, a law degree from Yale L
 GELER-Elaine F. Beloved wife of Louis, stepmother of Gary and his children Cassi, Jonathan and Russel. Services were held on Sunday.       
 HOLLINGSWORTH - Alvin C. Peacefully, Friday, July 14, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Father of Kim, Raymond, Stephen, Kevin, Monique, Denise and Jeanette. Grandfather of Mishari, Ariel, Jason, Adam, Kerry, Siobhan, Eilis and Victoria. He was an acclaimed artist with nume
 JAFFE-Wendy Worth. The President and Staff of South Street Seaport Museum mourn the loss of our colleague Dr. Steven Jaffe's wife Dr. Wendy Worth. Devoted wife and mother, psychologist and friend. We extend our deepest condolences to Dr. Jaffe and his sons Tobias and Matthew.       
 KARSKI-Jan. The officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee deeply mourn the death of Jan Karski, a courier of courage. Jan Karski was a diplomat, a Righteous Gentile, a messenger for the Polish underground resistance during World War II, and an eyewitness to the systematic
 LEFFLER-William I. Beloved husband of Susan. Devoted father of Margot and Sara. Dear father-inlaw of Daniel Milberg and Moises Mainster. Adoring grandfather of Nathan Mainster. Esteemed and loved by family and friends. Services will be held at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 East 79th St. at 2nd
 David Blechman, a co-founder of the Twinlab Corporation, a nutritional supplement company that has grown with America's health consciousness over 30 years, died on July 7 at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and divided his time between Commack, N.Y., and Boca Raton, Fl
 Louis Quilico, a Canadian baritone who sang nearly 300 performances at the Metropolitan Opera during his 25 years on the company's roster, died on Saturday in Toronto. He was 75 and lived in Toronto. Julie Giles, Mr. Quilico's publicity spokeswoman, said the cause was complications 
 Dr. Marcus Oliphant, Australia's leading nuclear physicist and a key figure in the making of the atom bomb -- a creation he came to loath -- died Friday in Canberra. He was 98. Dr. Oliphant entered the field in England under the guidance of Ernest Rutherford, director of the famous 
 GOLDBERG-Steven Lewis, M.D. The Faculty and Residents of The Department of Pathology at SUNY Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, mourn the loss of our friend, colleague, and Faculty Member. An outstanding teacher and surgical pathologist, Dr. Goldberg's generosity, personal warmth, and will
 GRUEN - Ernest. We deeply mourn the passing of our dear cousin Ernest. In his 95th year. We are eternally grateful to him for having rescued from certain death in the Holocaust no less than seven of our family members. For 32 years Ernest was associated with the Double-bass section of the M
 LINDNER-George, former Army Lt. Col. of Whitestone, New York. October 10, 1916-July 12, 2000 at the age of 83. Husband of the late Lillian Ruth Lindner. Beloved father of Barbara Winslow and Arthur Lindner. Brother of Beatrice Schecter and the late Abraham Lindner. Beloved grandfather, grea
 QUILICO-Louis. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our beloved colleague and friend, Louis Quilico. A versatile and generous artist, he sang 278 performances with the company between 1972 and 1994, and created the roles of the Bishop in ''Esclarmonde'' and Coroebus in ''Les Troyens''
 SCHREIBER-Ira I. The staff of the Kings County District Attorney's Office mourns with deep sorrow the untimely passing of Ira I. Schreiber, former Assistant District Attorney and brother of Deputy District Attorney Barry Schreiber. He was a dedicated public servant, serving the people of bo
 TARLOW-William F., 87, formerly of Roslyn, NY, at home, Sunday, in Somers, NY, following a long illness. Husband of Glenys, father of Reuven, Lawrence, Lee Miller, and the late Andrew; grandfather of Jeffrey, Rachel, Henry, Yosef Yitzhak, Chana, & Shneur Zalman; brother of Jerome, Elayne, &
 WAGNER-George R. Of Rye, NY, died July 11, after a long illness. He was 83 years old. Following distinguished service in the U.S. Army during World War II, Mr. Wagner rejoined the ship brokerage firm of Charles R. Weber in 1946. Over the course of 40 years at the firm Mr. Wagner became a ''
 WURMFELD-Michael. Died July 15 at the age of 60. Beloved husband of Hope, loving father of Charles and Eden, devoted and loving son of Esther and the late Charles Jacob, brother of Sanford, brother-in-law of Rella, uncle of Jeremy and Treva. Visiting at his home, Tuesday and Wednesday, 7-9 
 ABRANDT-Gustav S. Age 89. Formerly of Oyster Bay and Syosset NY. Beloved son of Sigrid Abrandt and August Abrandt, on July 17,2000. Beloved father of Jonathan C. Abrandt and Jeffrey G. Abrandt; he was one of the first lifeguards at Jones Beach State Park, serving as Lieutenant under Captain
 CURTISS-Thomas Quinn, 85, long time Theatre Critic for the International Herald-Tribune, died July 17, 2000, in Poissy, France. Survived by his brother, Franklin Curtiss. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date, at a time and place to be announced. For information Finnerty & Stevens
 DIAMOND - J. George, M.D. Peacefully on July 16, 2000 in his 92nd year. Of Pompano Beach, FL., formerly of Plainfield and Long Branch, N.J. He will be profoundly missed by his most loving and dearly loved wife of 55 years, Evelyne (nee Stern), his loving son Dr. Mark (Leslie), his beloved d
 LAEMLE-John. It is with great sadness that the Greater New York Council of Reform Synagogues announces the passing of John Laemle on Thursday, July 13, 2000. Our sincere condolences go to his wife Lois, daughter Sharon, son David, daughter-in-law Nancy and granddaughter Jessica. We will rem
 O'DONNELL-Joseph Patrick. Family of Joseph Patrick O'Donnell of New York City deeply mourn his passing on July 17, 2000 in Montclair, N.J. Retired NYPD Homicide Detective, USMC. Cherished father of Thomas O'Donnell of Niskayuna, N.Y., Susan MacNeil of Long Island, Peter O'Donnell of N.Y. an
 QUILICO-Louis. We note with great sadness the death of Louis Quilico, a colleague and performer with Opera Orchestra of New York. A good friend of Maestro Queler's since the day she played for his lessons with Martial Singher at the Mannes School, Mr. Quilico went on to sing the title role 
 WURMFELD-Michael. The Cooper Union Federation of College Teachers, (Local 3163 NYSUT, AFT, AFL-CIO) mourns the passing on July 15 of one of our founding members, Professor Michael Wurmfeld, whose courageous efforts to secure the benefits of collective bargaining for his colleagues are not f
 Senator Paul Coverdell of Georgia, a soft-spoken but influential Republican leader, died tonight in Atlanta from a massive cerebral hemorrhage he suffered over the weekend. He was 61. Mr. Coverdell had undergone surgery on Monday in Atlanta, his hometown, after being hospitalized fo
 CASWELL-W. Cameron. Died July 18, 2000 following a stroke which occurred Friday evening July 14. A resident of Darien, Ct. and Sea Island, Ga., he was an early partner at McKinsey & Co, subsequently joining Dover Corp as SVP of corporate development for 17 years, and concluded his career as
 KAISER-Charles Jr. (Chuck). Loving husband of Dale. Devoted and adoring son of Claudia Frenkel. Father of Kenneth and Andrew Kaiser and Chuck Hutchinson. A very special grandfather to Adam, Steven, Jordan, Margot, Katherine and Grant. His love grew unboundless as more children came into his
 KUSCHNER-Harvey, MD. Formerly of Baldwin, NY, died July 19, 2000, in Arlington, VA. Survived by His Wife Sue Marsh Kuschner; His Sons, Stuart, John, Robert and Ware; Five Grandchildren; and His Brother, Marvin Kuschner, MD. Services Private.       
 LEWIS-Frederick Howell. On behalf of The Fresh Air Fund, we note with great sadness the death of Frederick Howell Lewis, Life Director of The Fund. For 25 years, Bud was The Fund's Executive Director until his retirement in 1971. His leadership of our Friendly Town program enable thousands 
 LIU-Kang-Jen. Ph.D., of Pittstown, NJ, President of Union Resources and Technology, Inc., and President of United Innotek, Inc., on Monday, July 17, 2000. Loving husband of Linda and father of Larry and the late Lisa, devoted youngest brother of his brothers and sister, adoring uncle to his
 MAIER-John, M.D. Died in Ithaca NY on July 18. He was 88 years old. Survived by his wife, Mary Richmond Maier, two sons Hugh Paul Maier and John Richmond Maier, daughter Jan Maier, and three grandchildren.       
 MAREK-Carl L. On July 17, 2000, beloved husband of the late Cecile Marek, and loving father of John Martin and his wife, Rose. His two grandsons, John, Jr., and Christopher, mourn his loss as do his sister, Anneliese Marek Fish, his nieces, Terry Marek, Helen Marek, and his nephews, Richard
 MATT-William A. On July 8, 2000 at the age of 79. Beloved husband of Joan for 50 years, devoted father of Phil and wife Beth. Dear brother of Benjamin and of sister Teresa. Loving grandfather to Theo and Carolyn. Bill was the highly regarded proprietor, with his brother Benjamin, of D. Matt
 SARLIN-Louis. Died on July 19, 2000 at 88 years of age. A native New Yorker and graduate of Stuyvesant High School, Cooper Union, The Bank Street College of Education and recipient of a Doctorate in Education from New York University, he was a gifted and influential teacher. As a young arti
 TSENG-Anthony T. On the morning of July 19,2000, peacefully at home. Internationally recognized management consultant, President of Physical Distribution Dynamics, member of the Manhattan Rotary Club. Beloved husband of Sophia. Loving father of Robert, Roberta and Vivien. All of us who knew
 YABLANS-Gerald. Leader in the point of purchase industry. President and CEO of POP Display International, a multinational display co. Died at age 62 at his home in Sands Point, LI. He leaves behind his beloved wife Phyllis of 41 years, his children Bryan and Linda Yablans, Robin and Norm Le
 Paul Young, a British rock singer who sang with the group Mike and the Mechanics, died on Saturday at his home in Altrincham, near Manchester, England. He was 53. The cause apparently was a heart attack, said a British representative of Mr. Young and the band. Mr. Young, one
 William R. Corson, a retired Marine lieutenant colonel who was an expert on revolution and counterinsurgency and was nearly court-martialed for writing a book venting his disillusionment over the Vietnam War, died on Monday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 74 and lived in Potomac, Md. 
 William F. Whyte, a sociologist with a passion for reform who wrote ''Street Corner Society,'' the trailblazing 1943 study of Italian-American gangs in the North End of Boston, died last Sunday in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Whyte was a professor emeritus of sociology at Cornell Uni
 Allen E. Paulson, who set speed records as a pilot and airline executive but became world famous as the owner of the renowned race horse Cigar, died Wednesday night at Scripps Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. He was 78. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Paulson had achi
 Everett Needham Case, a former president of Colgate University who was also the chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the late 1960's, died on Tuesday in Waterville, N.Y. He was 99. He died in his sleep at a nursing home, said his son, James H. Case III. Mr. Ca
 BARKHOUSE-Arthur J., Jr. Of Deering, NH and formerly of Scarsdale, NY, died July 19, 2000, age 88 years. Husband of the late Ellen. He is survived by his daughter Susan B. and her husband Alan B. Daroff; a son Benjamin G. and his wife Angela M. Barkhouse, and five grandchildren. Funeral ser
 GENDIN-Stephen. It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of our beloved board member, colleague, and friend Stephen Gendin. His unyielding commitment to Aid for AIDS, working to improve HIV healthcare for the world's poor, will never be forgotten and will continue to be an inspiratio
 GURNEE-Robert F., 72, of Greenville, DE, died peacefully at Christiana Hospital, Newark, DE on July 18, 2000. His loving wife of 36 years, Arline, died in 1986. He is survived by his devoted companion, Paula Foraker of Greenville, DE; two daughters -Patricia Lloyd of West Chester, PA and Ba
 HARARI-Hananiah. Age 87, of Croton, on July 19, 2000. Survived by his wife, Shirley, and 5 children. Renowned artist. Funeral on Friday at 10:00am at Edward F. Carter Funeral Home, 41 Grand Street, Croton, NY 10520. Burial at Sharon Gardens. Memorial donations may be made to Rosary Hill Hom
 HELLER-Jerome S. Died July 19, 2000. A resident of NYC and Sparta, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Louise (nee Annus), devoted brother of Sally Gwirtzman. Also survived by cousins, nieces and nephews. He served in World War II and retired as a Lieutenant Colonel to a private Law practice. A
 HILL-Malcolm, M.D. Died of cancer July 16 at age 70. He graduated Swarthmore College and Yale University School of Medicine. He practiced psychiatry and will be missed by patients and colleagues who knew him as a gifted and sensitive therapist and teacher. He was an Associate Clinical Profe
 HUBER-A. Anderson. Of Ennice, NC, formerly of Atlanta and Bedford, NY. Passed away on Tuesday, July 18 in his home at the age of 70. He was surrounded by his family. Mr. Huber was born February 7, 1930 in NYC to Walter Huber and Margaret Goss Huber. After serving in the 82nd Airborne Divisi
 POGASH-Israel. Israel Martin Pogash, founder of Pogash & Company, CPAs, which operated in NJ and NY for more than fifty years, died at the age of 99 on July 8 in his Palm Springs home. His wife, Sylvia Namm Pogash died a year earlier. Mr. Pogash was born in Volochisk, Russia. The eldest of 
 SINNOTT-Richard Larkin, Sr., age 64, Bainbridge Island, WA died July 17, 2000 at his home. He was born February 3, 1936 in Chicago, Illinois to Richard Joseph and Kathryn Larkin Sinnott. Dick earned his degree in journalism from Notre Dame University in 1958. His early work career was in Ch
 THOMPSON-Patrick R. A very good man. A very good friend. We shall miss you. Marty Greenberg, David Greenberg and the entire staff of Sterling Commodities. THOMPSON-R. Patrick. The Board of Directors, members, and staff of the New York Mercantile Exchange mourn the untimely death of 
 WHEELOCK-William Hawxhurst, II. Of Easthampton, NY. Passed on July 18. Bill was a graduate of St. Paul's School in Concord, NH, Class of '55; Hobart College in Geneva, NY, '59. He leaves his two brothers, Frederick and Morgan; two children, Lindsay and Bill; and one grandson, Hawk. He will 
 ZUCKMAN-Dr. Leonard. 79 years old. Died July 19, 2000. Respected clinical psychologist. Admired and loved by all who knew him. A man of great compassion, strength and integrity. A warm hearted loving man with a sense of humor, a great laugh and an optomistic view of life. A loving and devot
 William Russell Mote, a millionaire businessman whose love of the sea led him to build the Mote Marine Laboratory here into a major research center, died on Tuesday at his home on Longboat Key. He was 93. Born in Tampa in 1906, Mr. Mote, who spent boyhood days wading in Tampa Bay fo
 Lt. Col. Charles C.I. Merritt, a Canadian Army officer who was taken captive in the Dieppe raid of World War II but emerged as a heroic figure on a disastrous day for his countrymen, died July 12 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 91. He received the Victoria Cross, the highest 
 BECKER-Herbert, DDS. Retired. On July 21, 2000 at age 78. Loving and devoted husband of Ethel. Uncle of Raymond and Edward Sherman. We will miss his kind heartedness and soft spoken nature. Funeral service Sunday, July 23rd, 11am, Sherman's 1283 Coney Island Ave(I & J), Bklyn, NY       
 CANIN-Martin. Fine artist and retired teacher of Parsons School of Design. Died in Rhinebeck, NY on July 19. Survived by his wife Beverly (nee Oxley) Canin, two daughters, Francesca Canin and K-T Canin, a son, Piet Canin, two sons-in-law, Russell Moss and Christopher Tudge, a brother Steve 
 MAURER-James L., age 65, of Lakewood, NJ, died Thursday at his home. Mr. Maurer worked for the F.W. Woolworth Co. of New York as a Senior Toy Buyer for 46 years, retiring in 1997. He then worked for Imaginarium of North Jersey as a Senior Toy Buyer. Mr. Maurer was a founding member and past
 PRUSSIN-Rubin D., 89, of Bal Harbour, passed away July 20, 2000. He is survived by his wife Ottilie, daughter Ann (Murray) Ginsburg, grandchildren Steven (Lisa) Ginsburg, Andrew (Lisa) Ginsburg and Paul (Andrea) Ginsburg and Aimee Davis, great grandchildren Bonnie, Jeri, Jason, Aaron, Sari,
 SPERDAKOS-George Athanasios. Died July 21, at age 68 at Bridgehampton, New York. A native of Montreal, he resided in Toronto, Ontario. He was a respected actor in Canada and in the U.S. His final stage performance was in ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' at Stratford, Ontario. He played the role 
 THOMPSON - R. Patrick.The Board of Directors and Staff of Hamilton Madison House mourn the untimely passing of R. Patrick Thompson, husband of its Board Vice President, Debra Thompson. Pat was a loyal and generous friend to the House. He will be sorely missed. We send our deepest sympathy t
 WELLINGTON-Thomas Dutton. 78. Of Princeton, NJ. Died July 19, 2000. Survived by his wife Margaret, daughters Margaret Constantine, Irene Wellington and Sarah Wellington, son Peter Wellington and five grandchildren. Also stepchildren John, Sarah, Thomas and Fairlie Myers. A service will be h
 Samuel Barry Guze, an influential psychiatrist who worked to wed his discipline to medical science and its diagnostic techniques, died on Wednesday at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. He was 76 and lived in Clayton, Mo. The cause was bone marrow disease, said a spokesman for the
 Stephen Gendin, an activist and writer who founded a nationally known mail-order prescription service for people infected with H.I.V., died Wednesday in New York. He was 34. Mr. Gendin died of cardiac arrest while undergoing chemotherapy for AIDS-related lymphoma, said Sean Strubb, 
 Thomas J. Sardino, who as Syracuse's police chief strove to defuse demonstrations, disorders and racial tension in the early 1970's, died July 14 in Syracuse. He was 72 and lived in Syracuse. The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press said. Chief Sardino headed his ci
 John Coert Campbell, a former member of the State Department's policy planning council and director of political studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, died on Sunday at his home in Cohasset, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Campbell, a political scientist, wrote extensively on the Middle
 Dr. Michael Sherman Aldrich, a neurologist who explored and explained the mysteries of sleep and sleep disorders, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 51. The cause was bone cancer, said the University of Michigan Health System, where Dr. Aldrich founded the Sleep 
 BERNSTEIN-Sumner. Passed on July 21, 2000. He was the beloved husband of the late Pat. Devoted father of Nancy Quitoni and the late James Bernstein. Loving father-in-law to Joan Barry Bernstein and Louis Quitoni; also survived by four adoring grandchildren, Vivie, Charlie, Katherine and Ash
 CALVO-Antonio. Born in 1907 in Riobao, Sada, Spain. Died peacefully at his home on July 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Erundina for 60 years, cherished father of Asuncion (Sue) Otero, father-in-law to Joseph A. Otero, adored grandfather of Alessandra Otero Reiss, Antonio Jose Otero and Mark R
 COHAN-Richard L. 73, of New York City, on July 20, 2000, died peacefully after a long and valiant battle with kidney cancer. Most beloved husband of Felice (nee Schramm) for 48 years. Cherished father of Betsy and Cathy and loved father-in-law of Bob Zorowitz. Adored grandfather of Sydney a
 HELLER-Jerome S. Died July 18, 2000. A resident of NYC and Sparta, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Louise (nee Annus), devoted brother of Sally Gwirtzman. Also survived by cousins, nieces and nephews. He served in World War II and retired as a Lieutenant Colonel to a private Law practice. A
 HIGGINS-James J., on July 20, 2000 at age 82 after a long series of illnesses. Graduate of Manhattan College and Fordham Law School. Retired partner of Kirlin, Campbell & Keating, an Admiralty law firm, past president of the Maritime Law Association of the U.S., member of the Comite Maritim
 KARSKI-Jan, Dr. The American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust survivors deeply mourns the passing away of Dr. Jan Karski at age 86 in Washington, D.C. He will forever be known as the courageous ''man who tried to stop the Holocaust''. In 1942, at the risk of losing his life, Jan Karski, having
 KOTTY-Robert B., M.D. On July 10, 2000. He received his medical degree from the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University. He was associated with Beth Israel and Bellevue Hospitals for many years. He is survived by sisters Rieva Kotty and Olga Feiman, and brother Joseph Kotty,
 MELTZER-Manford. Died at home on July 21, 2000, age 91 after a courageous struggle with Alzheimer's disease. Survived by his beloved wife Theda (nee Spatt), his sons Peter and James and his granddaughter Alexandra. He was a lawyer and a businessman, and always an elegant gentleman. Services
 MORRIS-Dr. Norman. Of New York City, though he suffered with Parkinson's Disease for years, he died suddenly on July 16, 2000. He was recently widowed from Virginia Arnett. Survived by his children, Julie Morris, Adam Morris and Alissa Abelson, also his brother Danny, his nephew Steven, his
 PAIGE-Peter. Died at Meadowedge, his home in Bellport, NY, on July 21. Peter is survived by his bride of 56 years, Natalie Lambing Paige; three sons, Peter Otis Paige of Yardley, PA, Douglas Warner Paige of Robbinsville, NJ, and Lee Allen Paige of North Andover, MA; two sisters, Mary Paige 
 WOLFSON-Jack, 91, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL passed away July 19, 2000. Loving husband of Louise, and beloved father of Miriam ''Mimi'' Kende and Philippa ''Penny'' and Neil Van Dyne, grandfather to Sabrina and Ethan Kende and Lisa and Alexander Van Dyne and his wife Lisa and two great-grand
 YABLANS-Gerald. We mourn the loss of our good friend and extend condolences and love to the entire Yablans family. The world is a better place because of his life and deeds. We treasure his memory. Stan and Miriam Goldsmith and Family       
 KAPNER-Robert S. In Memory from his family. Richard, Kevin Fonda, Brooke       
 Alexandre Barbosa Lima Sobrinho, a prolific journalist and politician whose career was intertwined with the development of Brazil for much of the 20th century, died on July 16 in a clinic in Rio de Janeiro. He was 103. In a career that endured more than 80 years, until his final new
 Ernst Jandl, an internationally known Viennese lyric poet whose work could be lighthearted or despairing, died on June 9 in Vienna. He was 74. The cause was a cardiac disorder, Franz-Leo Popp, a member of an Austrian authors' organization, told journalists. Last year Mr. Jan
 Leo A. Hoegh, a governor of Iowa and later civil defense chief for President Dwight D. Eisenhower, died on July 15 in Colorado Springs, where he retired 15 years ago. He was 92. Mr. Hoegh (pronounced hoyg) was elected governor as an Eisenhower Republican in 1954. Defeated in his run
 BERNSTEIN-Sumner. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Sumner Bernstein. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his family. Bernard Steinweg, President David Hershberg, Secretary 
 COHEN-Frederick, EdD. On July 22, 2000, at age 75. Loving and devoted husband of Jessie Wilkinson Cohen, beloved father of Barbara Student, Donald and Kenneth Cohen, father in-law of Michael Student and Jennifer Cohen, grandfather of Sanford Student, Katherine, Kyle and Alec Cohen, and brot
 CURTIS-A. Dudley. Died Friday, July 21, 2000, in his home in Henryville, PA. He is survived by Gerd Anderson, his sister Elizabeth Stradtman, four children, six grandchildren and many friendswho will miss his humor and rugged individualism. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, May 20, 1913, the son
 HIGGINS-James J., on July 20, 2000 at age 82 after a long series of illnesses. Graduate of Manhattan College and Fordham Law School. Retired partner of Kirlin, Campbell & Keating, an Admiralty law firm, past president of the Maritime Law Association of the U.S., member of the Comite Maritim
 LASCHER-Michael F. DDS, Colonel (Ret.) US Army, of Bay Shore, NY, and Olympia, WA. Suddenly on July 20th, 2000, in his 55th year. Devoted son of Charlotte (Rogals) and the late Frank H. Lascher. Loving brother of Jane Lascher, Nancy Lascher, Charlotte Vescova and Gail Rogals. Nephew of Jose
 MELTZER-Manford. Died at home on July 21, 2000, age 91 after a courageous struggle with Alzheimer's disease. Survived by his beloved wife Theda (nee Spatt), his sons Peter and James and his granddaughter Alexandra. He was a lawyer and a businessman, and always an elegant gentleman. Services
 PAIGE-Peter. Died at Meadowedge, his home in Bellport, NY, on July 21. Peter is survived by his bride of 56 years, Natalie Lambing Paige; three sons, Peter Otis Paige of Yardley, PA, Douglas Warner Paige of Robbinsville, NJ, and Lee Allen Paige of North Andover, MA; two sisters, Mary Paige 
 PRICE-Michael. On July 21. Devoted husband of the late Matel. Beloved father of Julian. Loving grandfather of Cynthia, Allison, Craig, Todd and Scott. Dearest great-grandfather of Megan. Adoring father-in-law of Sharon. Good Papa as known to all. Will forever be missed by everyone who met h
 Sussman Volk, who owned a Manhattan restaurant that became a garment district social center for decades, opened and quickly closed what was said to be New York City's first frozen-food store, and invented questionable necessities that included the Cigarette Lighter That Lights From Either E
 Hananiah Harari, an American painter and illustrator, died on Wednesday in Halthorne, N.Y. He  was 87. Mr. Harari, who was born in Rochester, N.Y., studied with Fernand Leger in Paris from 1932 to 1934. He was one of a group of American painters who promoted the cause of internation
 Marc Reisner, an environmental writer and advocate best known for his book ''Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water,'' died on Friday at his home in San Anselmo, Calif. He was 51. He had cancer, said Joe Spieler, his literary agent. Mr. Reisner said in
 BASU-Ashim K. On July 22, 2000 at the age of 50. Those at Marymount Manhattan College mourn the passing of a dynamic teacher and friend as Dean of Faculty and Vice President of Academic Affairs, Dr. Basu was respected for his administrative strengths, as an accomplished educator, and for hi
 DEL GUERCIO-Victor R., of Rye Brook, New York, and formerly of Larchmont, NY died on July 23, 2000 at the Westchester Medical Center. He is survived by his wife Catherine (nee Crotty). Four children; Victor Jr. of Larchmont, NY, Lynn DiMenna of Darien, CT, William of Rye Brook, NY, and Gene
 HOLMES-Herbert, M.D. Departed this life July 22, 2000. Loved by all who knew him. The ultimate friend. He lives on in the hearts of all whose lives he touched. Wm. ''Footsie'' Edmondson, M.D.       
 KILLEEN-James R., 60. Of Holmdel, NJ, died Monday at home. Survived by his wife, Patricia, four sons, James P., Thomas E., Kevin C., and Michael S., two daughters, Kerri Ann Cody and Patti Killeen, one sister, Anne O'Connor and three grandchildren, Sara, James, & Thomas. Visitation Wednesda
 MELTZER-Manford. Died at home on July 21, 2000, age 91 after a courageous struggle with Alzheimer's disease. Survived by his beloved wife Theda (nee Spatt), his sons Peter and James and his granddaughter Alexandra. He was a lawyer and a businessman, and always an elegant gentleman. Services
 OLICKER-Stanley D. MD. Healer of the young, comforter of their parents, original member of the Shelter Rock Jewish Center, he was a very special person. To Sydell and the family, our deepest condolences. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Laurence A. Feldman, President       
 SAFRO-Paul. Beloved husband of Rose and the late Miriam. Loving father of Julia & Robert Edelman, Marti & Leonard Kutnik, Naomi Kolbrenner, Adele and Joseph Browdy, and Lee & Jerry Tresser, Miriam & Ivan Fulop, Roy Roth. Cherished grandfather of Allen & Suzanne, Linda and Michael, Michael, 
 SCHULTZ-Edward F. On July 22, 2000. He had a long, dedicated career in brokerage as manager and V.P. at Cogan Berlin Weill and Levitt; Shearson, Haydn, Stone; and Daiwa. Beloved father of Jennifer Lynn Schultz, former husband of Marilyn De Luca. Loving brother of Florence Broderick and Pegg
 SIMON-Scot, 46, of New York City. Passed away July 22, 2000. Son of Sherman and the late Muriel. Life partner of Richard Long, in addition he is survived by his brothers Paul (Mimi) Simon, Jeffrey (Bonnie) Simon, nephews Brian, Richard, Charles and Peter. His artistic talents encompassed ma
 TEVLIN-Irving, 87. Beloved husband of Rose and loving and devoted father of Susan and Helen. Passed away on July 23 at The Glen Arden Health Care Center in Goshen, NY. He formerly lived in Mount Vernon, NY for 45 years where he was active in the Jewish Community. Funeral services wil be hel
 THOMPSON-R. Patrick. Friend and supporter of the Commodity Floor Brokers and Traders Association of New York. We will miss his counsel and friendship. Officers and Directors of the Commodity Floor Brokers Assn       
 R. Patrick Thompson, the president of the New York Mercantile Exchange since 1989, died Wednesday in Bethesda, Md. He was 51 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, the exchange reported. Mr. Thompson spent 20 years at the exchange as a trader or execut
 Albert Takazauckas, who directed the original New York production of David Mamet's ''Sexual Perversity in Chicago'' and ''Duck Variations'' and went on to a career as a director of plays and operas, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. According to his fa
 Capt. Joseph F. Enright, the skipper of the submarine Archerfish, which sank the largest aircraft carrier of World War II, a Japanese ship whose existence had been unknown to the United States, died Thursday at his home in Fairfax, Va. He was 89. For directing the sinking of the car
 BLUMENTHAL-Lawrence E. Of Mt. Kisco, NY died July 24, 2000. He was 56 years old. Beloved husband to Wendy Blumenthal, loving father to the late Nancy Beth Blumenthal, devoted son to Gerome and Rhoda Blumenthal, fond brother to Dale Blumenthal. Funeral service Friday 12noon at the Oelker & C
 GENDIN-Stephen. POZ magazine mourns the loss of co-founder, Contributing Editor, AIDS activist, colleague, lover and friend Stephen Gendin. His unapologetic candor, courage and determination inspired all who knew him. Community leaders, loved ones and the public will gather to celebrate the
 GREENBERG-William Salant, 44. Loving son of Dr. Ralph and Flo Salant Greenberg of Upper Nyack, N.Y. Died July 24, of respiratory arrest. Graduate of Rhode Island School of Design and the French Culinary Institute, he is survived by his devoted parents and his brothers Lawrence, Josh and Jon
 GUY-John R. Of New York City, died on Sunday July 23, 2000 after a brief illness. Born January 25, 1920 in Jacksonville, Florida, Mr. Guy was a graduate of Emory University in Atlanta, and a Navy Veteran of WW II. Mr. Guy retired from a career in optical equipment and was long involved in o
 HERMAN-David Z. The Partners, Attorneys and Staff of Certilman Balin Adler & Hyman, LLP mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and partner, David Herman. We are grateful for his legal guidance and dedication he provided during his 16 years of service with our firm. David was a valued
 LERNER-Joseph. The Board of Governors and members of The Forest Hills Van-Court Association mourn the passing of our beloved vice president, Joseph Lerner. His wisdom was a guiding light to us all. We offer deepest sympathy to his wife, Judea, and family. Brian Nixon, President       
 MAZUR-Abraham. The Faculty and Staff of the Chemistry Department of the City College of New York deeply regret the loss of our former Chair and colleague, Professor Abraham Mazur. Professor Mazur, an outstanding biochemist and a recognized authority in the area of hemoglobin, ferritin and i
 MERROW-Wolcott Woodbridge. Died July 25, 2000, Centralia, Washington. Soldier, pilot, sailor, gentleman. We shall all miss him. Griswold Merrow       
 NOVACK-Murray. Beloved husband of Rosalind. Devoted father of Martin and Linda, and Frances. Adored grandfather of Robert and Nancy, Michael and Michelle. Great-grandfather of Brian and Jennifer. Services Thursday, 12 Noon at Schwartz Bros. Jeffer-Memorial Chapel, Queens Boulevard at 76th R
 OFFIT-Benson I. Passed away in Baltimore, Md on July 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Suzanne Offit (nee Gerber). Devoted father of Andrew Offit, Margaret Offit Gold and Thomas Offit. Dear father-inlaw of Suzanne Altman Offit, Marc Gold and Oriel Jane Offit. Devoted brother of Sidney Offit. Bel
 OLICKER-Dr. Stanley. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our member, Dr. Stanley Olicker. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Sydell, and the entire family. Joel Jacobson, President OLICKE
 SAFRO-Paul. Bnai Zion mourns the loss of our former President. Paul was an ardent supporter of Israel, a fellow of the World Zionist Organization and an inspiration to many. His generosity was legend. Our sincerest condolences to his wife Rose, his children and grandchildren. Hon. Alan G. H
 VARI-Aldo L. On July 24, 2000 in Marlboro, NY. Survived by his wife, Bruna Calzi Vari; his son, Bruce Vari of Toms River, NJ; and his daughter, Susan Zimbalist of Syosset, LI. DiDonato Funeral Home, 1290 Route 9W, Marlboro, NY 12542. Funeral Mass on Wednesday, July 26 at 10:30 AM at St. Mar
 WINDER-Frank Dodd. On July 25, 2000 of New Haven, CT., and Peru, VT, age 80, at CT Hospice in Branford, CT. He leaves his wife of 55 years, Mary S. Winder of New Haven, a daughter, Joy W. Ford of New Haven, three sons, David B. Winder of Marblehead, MA, Peter S. Winder of Dobbs Ferry, NY, a
 THOMPSON-R. Patrick. We are deeply saddened by the passing of R. Patrick Thompson, President, New York Mercantile Exchange. Serving as President for more than a decade, Mr. Thompson will be remembered as someone whose hard work, dedication and unique vision was integral in elevating the fut
 Alexander Dallin, an American historian of the Soviet Union whose family took part in the Russian Revolution but who was widely respected for the scholarly detachment with which he viewed Communism, died of heart failure on July 22 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76. He had a stroke the 
 Henry Mayer, a historian and critic best known for his award-winning revisionist book ''All on Fire: William Lloyd Garrison and the Abolition of American Slavery,'' died on Monday while on a bicycling trip with his wife in Glacier National Park in northwestern Montana. He was 59 and lived i
 Oscar Shumsky, a violinist and conductor who was renowned for the beauty of his sound and the luminous musicality of his performances of Bach, Mozart and Brahms, died on Monday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 83. Mr. Shumsky was one of the last students of Leopold Auer, the legendar
 BUTTERFIELD-John, Lord Butterfield Stechford, England, Kt., O.B.E., D.M., F.R.C.P. died at home in Cambridge, England, on Saturday 22 July, aged 80. He was the husband of Isabel Ann nee Kennedy, and the father of Toby Butterfield. Private family funeral (no flowers please). Memorial service
 den BROEDER-Frederick, who died in New York City on July 8 at the age of 64 made significant and original contributions to the field of 18th-century Roman studies with the first catalogue and exhibition in the US (1973) on the subject, The Academy of Europe: Rome in the 18th Century, for th
 LIVESAY-Darden Rawles, Sr. Of Stamford, CT and Long Boat Key, FL, died July 24, 2000 in Vancouver, BC. He was 65. He is survived by his loving wife Paulette, his three sons Darden Rawles Livesay, Jr. of Wilton, CT, Gregory Paul Livesay of Rye, NY, and Andrew Watkins Livesay of Stamford, CT.
 MALLAH-Sam. Born May 5, 1908, died July 25, 2000. A survivor of The Holocaust who will be missed by all the lives he touched. He is survived by his daughters Lily and Alice, his son-in-law Richard, his grandchildren Charles and his wife Sangeeta, Shari and her husband Laurence, Lisa and her
 MERMEL-Nate. Of North Miami Beach. Beloved husband of the late Ethel; Devoted father of Dr. Jana Feinman. Services ''Wien & Wien'', Hackensack, NJ, Friday, 12 noon (1-800-378-1892). He left a legacy of courage, strength & love.       
 SHUMSKY-Oscar. The entire Juilliard community mourns the death of Oscar Shumsky, a member of the faculty from 1952 to 1978. A distinguished violinist, dedicated teacher, and creative conductor, he was a major influence on generations of musicians throughout the 20th century. His engaging pe
 YELEN-Abe. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Abe Yelen, father of Esther Yelen Berman, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing Bonnie Lipton, National Presiden       
 Alvin L. Alm, a businessman and senior government official who helped create environmental and energy policy in Republican and Democratic administrations for four decades, died on Monday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 63. Mr. Alm was stricken at his home in 
 Claude Sautet, an award-winning director whose films focused on the lives of the bourgeoisie, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 76. The cause was liver cancer, his producer, Alain Sarde, told Agence France-Presse. ''My goal is to choose subjects or anecdotes, if you will, th
 John Wilder Tukey, one of the most influential statisticians of the last 50 years and a wide-ranging thinker credited with inventing the word ''software,'' died on Wednesday in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack after a short illness, said Phyllis Anscombe, 
 Olcott Damon Smith, who as chairman of Aetna Life and Casualty led the formation of its international and financial services divisions, died on Monday in Avon, Conn. He was 93. The two businesses that Mr. Smith believed would bode so well for Aetna's future are to be sold to ING Gro
 BECK-Julius. July 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Lana. Loving stepfather of Carolyn Meyer, Douglas Brown and Vivian Brown. He will deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral is private.       
 FENNIMORE-Tony. On July 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Sharon Fitzpatrick. Devoted father of Adam, Christopher and Kamla Fennimore. Dear brother of Linda and Don Fennimore. Also survived by many dear friends. Services Monday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Visi
 KELLY-Patrick J. Of Yonkers, N.Y. Suddenly on July 25, 2000. He was a retired U.S. Marine Officer and was presently employed as the Director of Operations at the Edwin Gould Academy in Chestnut Ridge, N.Y. Beloved husband of Patricia Hartnett Kelly, Special Agent in charge for Diplomatic Se
 LIVESAY-Darden Rawles, Sr. Of Stamford, CT and Long Boat Key, FL, died July 24, 2000 in Vancouver, BC. He was 65. He is survived by his loving wife Paulette, his three sons Darden Rawles Livesay, Jr. of Wilton, CT, Gregory Paul Livesay of Rye, NY, and Andrew Watkins Livesay of Stamford, CT.
 NADEL-Harold, 82. Of Boca Raton, FL., formerly from Harrison, NY. Beloved husband for 47 years of Dale, loving father to Lawrence Robert and Richard Dore. Dear cousin of Arnold Danzig, brother to Alexander Nadel and Sylvia Golber. Before his retirement, Harold was President of Power Oil Com
 OLICKER-Stanley, MD. We note with sorrow, the passing of a pediatrician who was widely respected by his colleagues and his many friends. Stanley Olicker's career was distinguished by devotion to his patients, enthusiasm for teaching new physicians, and his active role as a member, and as Pr
 SALKOW-Geoffrey Matthew, 33, of Naples, FL, on July 23, 2000 in Banner Elk, NC. Services will be held at 2 o'clock Friday, July 28, 2000 in Greenlawn Funeral Home Chapel. Interment will be in Greenlawn Memorial Park. Visitation was last night at the funeral home. Memorials may be made to th
 SCHWARTZMAN-Carl. On July 26th, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Carolyn. Devoted father of Trudy Brown and William Schwartzman. Cherished grandfather of Emma, Walker & Stefan Schwartzman. Funeral private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Congregation EmanuEl of the City of New Y
 SMITH-Olcott Damon. Former Chairman of Aetna Life and Casualty Co. and Of Counsel to Day, Berry & Howard attorneys, died Monday, July 24, 2000. He was 93 years old. He was born in West Hartford, Connecticut, on June 17, 1907, and lived there and in Farmington, Connecticut all of his life. A
 LYNN-Victor M. In loving memory of a dear friend on the first anniversary of his death. Rit       
 Ahmad Shamlu, a noted Iranian poet with a free-flowing style who was both at odds with the Iranian monarchy and disappointed with the Islamic movement that ousted it, died on Sunday in a Tehran hospital. He was 74 and lived near Tehran. He had long been ill, Iran's official news age
 Frank Wheat, a securities lawyer who became a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission and also a tireless battler against despoilment of California's deserts, died on July 21 in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in nearby San Marino. The cause was cancer, his family said.   
 Fred Lawrence Guiles, a biographer of Hollywood movie stars, was found dead on June 24 at his home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 79. Among Mr. Guiles's best-selling books was his 1969 ''Norma Jean: The Life of Marilyn Monroe,'' which was translated into 14 languages. The book became t
 Former Representative James Hobson Morrison, a populist Democrat who represented southeastern Louisiana in Congress from 1943 to 1967, died on July 20 in his native Hammond, La. He was 91. A lawyer, he was elected to the House from Louisiana's Sixth District, which included the stat
 BARTH-Seymour. Beloved husband of Sheila. Loving father of Joel, Edward and Sharon. Adored grandfather of Gabriela, Susan, William and Victoria. Devoted brother of Morris & Lenore. Dear father-in-law of Ana and Judy. Cherished uncle of nine nieces and nephews. Retired founder and CEO of Ast
 CANTOR-Morton B., M.D. Died July 28, 2000 at age 76. Beloved husband of Lola; adoring father of Jonathan and David Gersch and grandson Benjamin; loving brother of Wendy Yalowitz and Bill Cantor. He was a man of uncommon valor who sought as a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst to heal, teach, tr
 KELLY-Patrick J. Of Yonkers, N.Y. Suddenly on July 25, 2000. He was a retired U.S. Marine Officer and was presently employed as the Director of Operations at the Edwin Gould Academy in Chestnut Ridge, N.Y. Beloved husband of Patricia Hartnett Kelly, Special Agent in charge for Diplomatic Se
 LIVESAY-Darden Rawles, Sr. Of Stamford, CT and Long Boat Key, FL, died July 24, 2000 in Vancouver, BC. He was 65. He is survived by his loving wife Paulette, his three sons Darden Rawles Livesay, Jr. of Wilton, CT, Gregory Paul Livesay of Rye, NY, and Andrew Watkins Livesay of Stamford, CT.
 MEYERS-Saul S. Of Orleans, MA, on July 18th, 2000. He attended Syracuse University and Brooklyn Law School. He was an attorney with Szold Brandwen for seventy years. Surviving are his wife Helen Goldstein Meyers, daughters Gail Sharman and Susan Chandler, three grandchildren and four great-
 NADEL-Harold, 82. Of Boca Raton, FL., formerly from Harrison, NY. Beloved husband for 47 years of Dale, loving father to Lawrence Robert and Richard Dore. Dear cousin of Arnold Danzig, brother to Alexander Nadel and Sylvia Golber. Before his retirement, Harold was President of Power Oil Com
 PRICE-Michael. On July 20. He was the beloved companion of Theda Lerner. A native of Vienna, Austria, he counted it a blessing to live in the United States of America. As a young boy he learned to play the violin and his pleasure in classical music and the opera never left him.       
 SAFRO-Paul. The American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth, the Museum of the Jewish Diaspora in Tel Aviv and the entire museum management, mourn the passing of Paul Safro, our vice president, friend, benefactor and guiding spirit for so many years. He will surely be missed by all. Our heartfelt 
 TUKEY-John. Donner Professor of Science Emeritus, Princeton University, and Associate Executive Director of Research, AT&T Bell Laboratories, on July 26. Survivors include first cousins Clayton Tasker of Jekyll Island, GA, and Wilder Tasker of New Bern, NC; and the Francis Anscombe family o
 ZIMMERMAN-Douglas Alan. Of Rockleigh, NJ, on July 27th. Beloved husband of Gail. Devoted father of Alexandra, Lindsay and Rebecca. Dear brother of Alana Sherman, Beth Zimmerman and Dorothy Eckert. Dear brother-inlaw of Mark Sherman. Cousin of Larry and Jack Needleman. Longtime business part
 William Harris, a dance writer and advocate for new dance artists, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother, John, of Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Harris wrote about dance for SoHo Weekly News, Dance Ink and The 
 William Simon, who influenced the study of human sexuality through his application of sociological methods and his rejection of traditional ideas of normal behavior, died on July 21 in Houston. He was 70. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Simon, who once worked at t
 Iain Hamilton, a Scottish composer best known for his operas and other vocal works, died on July 21 in London. He was 78. Mr. Hamilton was born in Glasgow and his family moved to London when he was 7. He attended the Mill Hill School there, and upon graduation he was apprenticed for
 Milton W. Garland, who showed up for a 47-cents-an-hour job at a refrigeration company in 1920 and stayed on until this May, died Thursday at a nursing home in Waynesboro, Pa. He was 104. Mr. Garland, who earned 41 patents over eight decades in the field of refrigeration, was honore
 ANDIMAN-Samuel. Passed away peacefully on July 29th at the age of 86. Adoring husband of the late Carol Lynne; loving and proud father of Suzi (Scott Fischman) and Lori (Michael Randall). Cherished grandfather of Benjamin Joseph, the light of his life. Dear brother of the late Jeanne Benson
 BARRETT-James M., MD died on Monday, July 17, age 59. Dr. Barrett was born in Jacksonville, FL and was raised in New Orleans, LA. He attended medical school at Louisiana State University and did his residency at Johns Hopkins University, Maryland. In 1973, Dr. Barrett moved to South Florida
 BARTH-Seymour. Beloved husband of Sheila. Loving father of Joel, Edward and Sharon. Adored grandfather of Gabriela, Susan, William and Victoria. Devoted brother of Morris & Lenore. Dear father-in-law of Ana and Judy. Cherished uncle of nine nieces and nephews. Retired founder and CEO of Ast
 BECK-Julius. July 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Lana. Loving stepfather of Carolyn Meyer, Douglas Brown and Vivian Brown. He will deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral is private.       
 CANTOR-Morton B. M.D. The Westchester Center for the Study of Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy mourns the loss of Morton B. Cantor, M.D., our esteemed colleague, teacher and psychoanalysist. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dr. Lola Cantor and his family. Helen O. Adler Director      
 FASTENBERG-Niles. Died July 27, 2000. Niles was the loving husband of Eleanor, father of Jeff and Sarah Fastenberg and Lisa Spilko, and brother and brother-inlaw of Charles and Nancy. He was one of a kind and is sorely missed. Funeral Tuesday, 11:30 AM, Louis Suburban Chapel, Fair Lawn, NJ.
 HEYMAN-Sander. Deceased July 3, 2000. Survived by daughters Susan Bell of Manhattan Beach, CA, Nancy Ostlund of Tucson, Arizona and sister Rosalie Heyman of White Plains, NY. Born January 26, 1908 in Brooklyn, NY. Educated at City College of NY and Brooklyn Law School. Acted four years in N
 MAYER-Edward F., 92. Died Tuesday at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center. He was born in Brooklyn, New York on October 1, 1907, son of Frederick and Frieda (Pless) Mayer. He graduated City College of New York and was a Budget Analyst for Exxon Corporation for forty years. After retirement fr
 NADEL-Harold, 82. Of Boca Raton, FL., formerly from Harrison, NY. Beloved husband for 47 years of Dale, loving father to Lawrence Robert and Richard Dore. Dear cousin of Arnold Danzig, brother to Alexander Nadel and Sylvia Golber. Before his retirement, Harold was President of Power Oil Com
 RADIN-Edwin F. On Friday, July 28, 2000, of Pompano Beach, FL, formerly of New Jersey and LI, NY. Beloved husband of the late Fredda. Devoted father of Amy R. Stein and her husband Marvin, and Jonathan C. Radin and his wife Jenique. Dear brother of Burton and Arthur. Adoring grandfather of 
 RECKLER-Stanley (Rick). Of Scarsdale and Easthampton. On July 25. Surviving are his beloved wife Siri, daughters Leslie and Nancy, and brother Arthur. A graduate of Boston College Law School, Rick was a dedicated lawyer and highly regarded by his clients and colleagues. He will be deeply mi
 SCHULMAN-Mortimer. On July 29, 2000. Adoring husband of Thelma, beloved father of Michael, Elaine, Ira, Betty, Robert and Hope; cherished grandfather of Bonnie Rose, Eric, David, Emily and Gregory. A kind, gentle man, his wit and spirit touched all who were fortunate enough to meet him. We 
 TUKEY-John. Donner Professor of Science Emeritus, Princeton University, and Associate Executive Director of Research, AT&T Bell Laboratories, on July 26. Survivors include first cousins Clayton Tasker of Jekyll Island, GA, and Wilder Tasker of New Bern, NC; and the Francis Anscombe family o
 WORCESTOR-Dean Kirkham, Jr. Of New York City, July 15, 2000, age 77. Loving father of Charles L. of Medford, MA, Edward D. of Seattle, WA., and Amanda W. Swinchoski of Watertown, MA. Grandfather of James and Louisa Swinchoski. Also survived by sisters Shirley Braun of New York City and Sue 
 ZIMMERMAN-Douglas Alan. Of Rockleigh, NJ, on July 27th. Beloved husband of Gail. Devoted father of Alexandra, Lindsay and Rebecca. Dear brother of Alana Sherman, Beth Zimmerman and Dorothy Eckert. Dear brother-inlaw of Mark Sherman. Cousin of Larry and Jack Needleman. Longtime business part
 Raymond Eugene Portwood Jr., who began working as an animator with the Walt Disney Company at 17 and went on to become one of the two principal creators of the pioneering and popular Carmen Sandiego series of children's computer games, died on July 17 in Windsor, Calif. He was 66. M
 Dr. Robert George Crowder, an experimental psychologist and an authority on memory, died Thursday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 60. Dr. Crowder gained wide recognition in 1976 with the graduate textbook ''Principles of Learning and Memory,'' which summarized the research done 
 Robert McFarland, a former correspondent, producer and Washington bureau chief of NBC News, died on Tuesday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 62. The cause was lymphoma, NBC said. Mr. McFarland spent 28 years at NBC News before retiring several years ago. He was wor
 Roberto Suarez Garcia, once one of the most-wanted drug traffickers in the world, died on July 20 in Santa Cruz, Bolivia. He was 68. His family said the cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Suarez entered the cocaine trade in the mid-1970's. He came t
 Dr. Abraham Pais, a physicist who helped build the conceptual foundations of the modern theory of elementary particles, then became a science historian and wrote one of the most acclaimed of all biographies of Einstein, died on Friday in Copenhagen. He was 82 and was the Detlev W. Bronk pro
 Jose Angel Valente, a cerebral Spaniard who believed writing poetry should begin with the word and not with the real-life world, died on July 18 in a hospital in Geneva. He was 71. He had cancer, The Associated Press reported. The poet, who was also a critic and translator, 
 BERSON-Raymond. Treasured husband of Pearl; devoted father of Steven, Susan, and Barbara, and father in-law of Harriet and Ed; adored grandfather of Matthew, Lauren, Sam and Leah; loving brother of Norma and the late Beatrice. Services Monday, 12 noon, at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Rd., Gre
 BLACKMON-William Andrew, Jr. On July 23, at age 83. Longtime resident of Greenwich Village and retiree from Price Waterhouse. Survived by his wife Helen Sessinghaus Blackmon, daughter Rosemary Grove, and son William Andrew Blackmon III. Contributions in memory may be made to Poly Prep Count
 CONSIDINE-Reverend Monsignor John J. On July 28, 2000. Pastor Emeritus of St. Barnabas R.C. Church, Bronx, NY. Beloved brother of Veronica Carey of Dumont, NJ, and the late Thomas, Catherine, Madeline, George, Sr. Joseph Marie, S.C., William and Margaret Higgins. Cherished uncle of many nie
 FASTENBERG-Niles. Died July 27, 2000. Niles was the loving husband of Eleanor, father of Jeff and Sarah Fastenberg and Lisa Spilko, and brother and brother-inlaw of Charles and Nancy. He was one of a kind and is sorely missed. Funeral Tuesday, 11:30 AM, Louis Suburban Chapel, Fair Lawn, NJ.
 FEERICK-Donald J. Died on July 29, 2000, at home in New City, NY. Born in the Bronx on April 10, 1938, to the late Mary and John Feerick, Irish immigrants from County Mayo. Donald was the beloved husband of Meg; cherished father of Mary Beth, Donald, Kathleen, Patricia, Jennifer and Margare
 KUNUKAU-Wallace Manaiaokalani. Born November 4, 1940, in Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. Died July 28, 2000, in NYC. Brother of Mary and Thomas Apo, Alexander and Janet Kunukau, and Melvin and Laverne Kunukau; and uncle to numerous nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews. Wally was Managing Ed
 SCHULMAN-Mortimer. On July 29, 2000. Adoring husband of Thelma, beloved father of Michael, Elaine, Ira, Betty, Robert and Hope; cherished grandfather of Bonnie Rose, Eric, David, Emily and Gregory. A kind, gentle man, his wit and spirit touched all who were fortunate enough to meet him. We 
