 Louis Auslander, distinguished professor of mathematics and computer science at the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York, died Tuesday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in nearby Pelham Manor. The cause was a cerebral he
 Louis A. Botto, the founder and artistic director of Chanticleer, an a cappella men's choir, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 45. Agnes Bruneau, the press representative for the choir, said the cause was AIDS. Mr. Botto, a tenor, formed Chanticleer in 197
 BERMAN-Henry (Hank), The offices, Board of Directors and staff of the New York Metropolitan Region of the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the untimely passing of our longtime board member and past officer. His leadership and wise council will be greatly missed by all. May hi
 COE-Jacques, stockbroker, died on February 23, 1997 at age 103. Spent 88 years on Wall Street. Beloved husband of the late Florence Curtis Coe (formerly married to Clara Bartels Coe). Loving father of Jean Fink and the late Jacques Coe, Jr. and Tech/Sgt. William Coe, and devoted stepfather 
 COHEN-Judah, a very special person whose life was devoted and dedicated to his children. His never ending concern and pride in his children, unwavering respect for his father and sensitivity to the needs of others will be his legacy. He will be sorely missed. May Shlomo Chani, Avi and Max b
 LINCER-Maxwell. On Feb. 27, 1997, after a brief illness. Devoted husband of the late Cecile & dear companion of Roslyn Newman. Beloved father of Richard of Short Hills, N.J. and Dr. Robert of Stamford, CT. Cherished father-in-law of Ellen and adoring grandfather of Amanda and David. He is a
 SEGGERMAN-Kenneth M. Jr, in New York City, Feb. 27. Husband of the late Helen-Louise K.S. Seggerman. Son of the late Kenneth M. and Sarah G.A. Seggerman. Survived by his children Kenneth, Tobias, Sarah and Victoria, 3 granddaughters and his brothers Harry and Frederick. Funeral service will
 SHANKER-Albert. The officers and members of the Italian American Labor Council mourn the loss of our brother, Albert Shanker. As AFT President, one of our affiliates, he was the conscience of labor and human rights throughout the world. We will miss him as our leader and friend. George Alto
 Paul Otto Heyer, a professor and former president of the New York School of Interior Design, died on Feb. 22 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived on the Upper West Side, where he also had an architectural office. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 Dr. William R. Maples, a leading forensic anthropologist who sought to identify the skeletal remains of prominent figures dating back as far as the 1500's and at times sought to ascertain the circumstances of mysterious deaths, died on Thursday at his home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 59.   
 Adm. Ephraim Paul Holmes, who rose to become the fifth-highest-ranking naval officer, died on Sunday at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 88. He retired in 1970 as Commander in Chief, United States Atlantic Fleet, the 12th naval officer to hold the position. He reached it
 C. Brooks Peters, who covered the outbreak of World War II from Berlin for The New York Times, died on Thursday at his apartment on the Upper West Side. He was 84. Mr. Peters covered the early days of the war with a vivid style, producing some of the coverage that helped The Times w
 Dr. Richard Henry Logsdon, a retired educator and librarian at Columbia University and the City University of New York, died Feb. 22 at a nursing home in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 84 and had homes in South Egremont, Mass., and Manhattan. The family said he had suffered a brief illness.
 Eric Fenby, a British musician and musicologist who was a transcriber for the British composer Frederick Delius, died on Feb. 18 in Scarborough, England, where he lived. He was 90. Mr. Fenby, a native of Scarborough, was originally trained as an organist and went on to become a comp
 Frank Heller, a lawyer who was long active with Jewish educational and service organizations, died on Feb. 16 at White Plains Hospital. He was 88 and lived in White Plains. He practiced law from 1937 up to a week before his death and was a partner in the firm Peck & Heller in Manhat
 Henry B. Guthrie, who worked as a lawyer for the wealthy and prominent and who devoted much of his time to providing better hospital care, enriched science education and social services for fatherless youths, died on Feb. 12 at his home in Bedford, Westchester County. Mr. Guthrie, w
 John S. Minary, who turned a chance wartime encounter in London into a lifelong job as William S. Paley's personal financial adviser, died Feb. 18 at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 88. A banker's son from Benton Harbor, Mich., Mr. Minary graduated from Dartmouth College and
 BERMAN-Henry Marvin. On February 28, 1997. Loved by his wife Judith, his sons Michael and Seth, his daughter-in-law Andrea, his brother Bill, his grandchildren Matt, Brett and Jamie. BERMAN-Henry. The Jericho Jewish Center of Jericho, L.I., New York, sadly mourns the passing of our 
 BOTTO-Louis. The Herbert Barrett Management is deeply saddened by the death of our friend and colleague Louis Botto, founder and artistic director of Chanticleer. Louis' brilliant guidance of the musical genius of Chanticleer has been a joy for us and his entire Chanticleer family. We exten
 COE-Jacques. The entire partnership of Cowen & Company mourns the passing of our longtime friend and eminent colleague, Jacques Coe, 103. Widely recognized as the oldest active broker on Wall Street, Jacques joined Cowen & Company in 1964 as a limited partner. He epitomized an exceptional s
 EWALD-Lux H., 82, on March 1, 1997, of East Orleans, MA. Formerly of Kent, CT. Died peacefully in his home after a long illness. Survived by his wife Maria (Mickey), daughter Claire, son-in-law Walter Gaylord, granddaughter Paige Gaylord, two sisters, one brother and several nieces and neph
 FELDBAU-Dr. Alfred E., M.D., 83, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y., passed away on Monday, Feb. 24, 1997. Dr. Feldbau practiced family medicine in the Brooklyn area for 46 years. He is survived by his beloved wife Sophie of 58 years; son, Dr. Gary Feldbau; Daughter, Shelly Schac
 FILGUT-Jeffrey, Feb. 22, 1997. Beloved friend and colleague. He touched many lives and will be greatly missed. Survived by Uncle George Filgut, Cousins Jim and Paul Filgut and Linda Citko, all of Chicago. Services Tuesday, March 4, 10:45 AM, Cedar Park Cemetery, Forest Avenue, Paramus, NJ. 
 GOODMAN-Monroe R. in NYC Feb. 28. Beloved husband of Ruth K. Devoted father of Michael and Andrew, daughters-in-law Barbara and Nancy. Cherished brother of Agatha G. Hart. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Matthew, Mark and Kim, Andrea and Brian. Proud great grandfather of Rebecca and Madison. 
 HORAN-Gertrude A. The Board of Directors of our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System, Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, and Saint Agnes Hospital extend their deepest sympathy to our President and CEO, and his entire family, as they mourn the death of his beloved Mother. Joseph J. Melly, Jr., Cha
 LINCER-Maxwell. On Feb. 27, 1997, after a brief illness. Devoted husband of the late Cecile & dear companion of Roslyn Newman. Beloved father of Richard of Short Hills, N.J. and Dr. Robert of Stamford, CT. Cherished father-in-law of Ellen and adoring grandfather of Amanda and David. He is a
 NEW-Sidney, Jr. Sensitive, steadfast, thoughtful friend of a lifetime. He will be very much missed by us. Helen W. Lambert, Lisa and Susan Levi       
 PETTIT-T. Christopher. The Faculty and Staff of the Department of Medicine at The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and benefactor, T. Christopher Pettit. Mr. Pettit, through his work with the Dorothy Rodbell Cohen Foundation for Sarco
 SEGGERMAN-Kenneth M. Jr, in New York City, Feb. 27. Husband of the late Helen-Louise K.S. Seggerman. Son of the late Kenneth M. and Sarah G.A. Seggerman. Survived by his children Kenneth, Tobias, Sarah and Victoria, 3 granddaughters and his brothers Harry and Frederick. Funeral service will
 Sidney Squire, whose law career in New York City covered more than 60 years, including 21 as a judge, died on Feb. 12 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The cause was pancreatic cancer, family members said. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. As a member of the New York State 
 BITTERLY-Thomas R., 79, of Spring Lake, NJ. Died February 19, 1997. He leaves his wife of 49 years, Mildred; a brother, Joseph Bitterly; a son, Dr. Thomas J. Bitterly of Danville, PA; and two daughters, Seton Bitterly of New York and Bonnie Jurist of Boston. Also six grandchildren: Kelley, 
 BOTTO-Louis. We are greatly saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague Louis Botto, founder and Artistic Director of the vocal ensemble Chanticleer. A true visionary in the field of choral music, his death is an incalculable loss for the entire music community. Our heartfelt sympat
 CHESNEL-Dennis. Sports Illustrated magazine mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Dennis Chesnel. An advocate of technology, he guided us in the transition to desktop publishing with his impeccable style and grace. We extend our sympathies to all who loved him, and we will miss hi
 DU VIVIER-Paul Fuller, 82, a retired career diplomat, died of cancer Thursday, February 27 at his home in Hunt Valley, MD. Son of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Du Vivier of New York and Paris and grandson of Dr. Edward Loughborough Keyes, a pioneer in Urology. Dr. Du Vivier was educated in France and
 LEDERMAN-Paul. Of Long Beach, LI, and Delray Beach, FL, died on March 1, 1997. He will be remembered by his wife Marilyn, daughters Loren Fogelson, Sherri Mandell and Nancy Lederman, sons-in-law Richard Fogelson and Seth Mandell, and seven grandchildren in NY and in Israel. His warmth and h
 MANNING-William J. Of Garden City, NY, on March 1, 1997, in Jupiter, FL. Loving husband of Maryann. Devoted father of William, Jr., Michael P., John A., Maura Comerford, Marian Adams, Mary Elizabeth. Dear brother of Margaret McCabe. Cherished grandfather of eight. Friends may visit Tuesday 
 MELODY-William J. On Saturday, March 1, 1997, at his home in Randolph Township, NJ. Former Regional Administrator of the Veterans Administration and U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Survived by sons William Jr., Kevin and Joseph, and two grandchildren. For information call 
 FREIBERG-Samuel. March 17, 1909-March 3, 1996. Sam Freiberg was a decent, honorable man who treated people with consideration and respect. One year after his death, we still mourn our loss but remain thankful for all the years we had him. Loving family and friends       
 LEWIS-Matthew D. On the first anniversary of his death, still down every street, around every corner. Remembered with love. Mother, Dad, and Janet       
 Raymond LambertRaymond Lambert, a Swiss mountaineer who came within 800 vertical feet of immortality in 1952 but had to console himself ever after with the knowledge that he had paved the way for Sir Edmund Hillary's conquest of Mount Everest a year later, died on Monday at a hospital near 
 Charles E. Dederich, a reformed alcoholic who founded Synanon, the drug rehabilitation program that won widespread acclaim and amassed great wealth before it became associated with violence, died on Friday in Kaweah Delta Hospital in Visalia, Calif. Mr. Dederich, who lived in Visalia, was 8
 GOODMAN-Monroe R. The Board of Directors and staff of VISIONS/Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired records with sorrow the passing of Monroe R. Goodman. He was a most dedicated member of the Board and Advisory Council for 18 years and a past Treasurer and Secretary of VISIONS. Our d
 GUTMAN-Leo. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Ricki Jacoby on the loss of his beloved father, Leo. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 LARSON-William Brooks, formerly from Montclair and Essex Fells, NJ, died on February 26, 1997, in Wilmington, NC. He is survived by his wife Mary Louise Larson; three daughters: Bonnie Louise Seehorn, Donna Jean Larson, Mary Brooks Alderson.       
 MANNING-William J. The partners of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett are saddened by the passing of their retired partner, William J. Manning. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Maryanne and his family. The Partners of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett       
 NATHANSON-Irwin. Age 91. Passed away peacefully in the early hours of Sunday morning, March 2, 1997. He is survived by his wife Mimi Bochco and stepchildren Joanna Rachins and Steven Bochco and three step grandchildren. Born January 22, 1906 in Saint Louis, MO., he had his own public relati
 PETERS-Carl Brooks. The Partners, Management, Brokers and Staff of Ashforth Warburg Associates extend their deepest sympathy to our President, Frederick Warburg Peters, upon the death of his father. Our most heartfelt condolences to Fred and his family.       
 PROPPER-Norman. Age 64. On March 2, 1997. President of Serica Neckwear for 20 years. Survived by wife, Anne, two daughters, Beth and Adrienne, and two grandchildren, Randy and Alec. His vision and leadership will be sorely missed. Funeral will be held at Gutterman's, Rockville Centre, 9:30 
 RALEIGH-Ben. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers mourns the tragic passing of our lyricist member Ben Raleigh in California on February 26, 1997. Condolences to his family. Marilyn Bergman President and Chairman, ASCAP       
 ROBERTS-Henry B., of Sherborn, MA., February 28, 1997. Born in Bala-Cynwyd, PA., on March 14, 1914, he attended St. Paul's School, Concord, NH, and graduated from Princeton University in the class of 1936. His career was devoted entirely to publishing, with the exception of five years warti
 ROSEMAN-Melvin, on February 28. Family and friends mourn the passing of a devoted husband to Ruth, loving father of Sandra Lane, Shelly Benerofe, Joan Berkin, father-in-law to Arthur, grandfather to eight caring grandchildren, close brother to Arnold. In our hearts he will always be remembe
 SCHNEEBELI-Richard J., Jr. Age 37. Died Friday, February 28, 1997 at his home. He was a self employed industrial designer in Manhattan. Funeral services private.       
 Robert H. Paschal, the Atlanta restaurateur and entrepreneur whose perfectly seasoned fried chicken sustained the civil rights movement, died on Thursday at his home here. He was 88. His younger brother, James, his partner for 50 years in a business that started as a lunch counter a
 Stanislav S. Shatalin, the Soviet economist who during the perestroika era was instrumental in promoting an economic plan to dismantle Communism, died today. He was 62. The Russian Academy of Sciences announced his death but did not disclose the cause. He had been in and out of hosp
 Kingsley Davis, the sociologist and demographics expert who coined the term ''zero population growth,'' argued passionately for a wide range of measures to bring it about and then, paradoxically, warned of the dangers of low birthrates, died on Feb. 27 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was
 BARTNER-Harry, age 74, died on March 3. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice Bartner. He is survived by his loving children, Melanie, Peter, Craig and Kevin, and grandchildren, Corey and Jaime. Service will be held at I.J. Morris, 46 Greenwich St., Hempstead, NY, on March 6, at 10:30.      
 BASSUK-Bertram L. FAIA. Of NYC. Esteemed architect, died March 2, 1997. Beloved brother of Harold and Gloria, cherished uncle of Jeffrey and Janice, treasured cousin and friend. A memorial gathering to celebrate his life will be held at the Community Room, 343 Eighth Avenue (27th Street), 2
 BERGMAN-Lester V. On March 1, 1997 at age 87. A long time resident of Cold Spring, NY formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia (Bernstein). Together as a husband and wife team they ran a successful scientific photography and illustration business for over 50 years, and 
 CINELLI-Hercules L., of Carmel, died March 3, at Putnam Hospital Center. Beloved husband of Jean (nee Martin). Brother of Marion Monachelli. Viewing Wednesday, 2-4 and 7-9, Cargain Funeral Homes Inc., 418 Route 6, Mahopac, NY. Funeral Mass March 6, 10 AM, St. John the Evangelist church, Mah
 DOBSON-Mark Hull, age 43, suddenly in New York City on Tuesday, February 25th. He was a graduate of Eastmoor High School in Columbus, University of Paris, France and New York University. At the time of his death he was Vice President of Bear Stearns Investment Bankers in NY. Survived by his
 FREEDMAN-Henry Louis, M.D. Husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle; physician, teacher, sweet friend to us all. Died March 3rd, 1997 at age 86. FREEDMAN-Dr. Henry L./d Beloved physician, mentor & teacher who inspired generations of doctors, founding father and guiding light to 
 GUTERMAN-Simeon. We extend our Kos Tanchumim to Sidney Adler on the loss of his beloved brother-in-law, and to Silver Founder Abraham Guterman on the loss of his beloved brother. When a history of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem will be written, an important chapter will be dev
 HARRISON-Dean K. The faculty, staff, & students of The Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Dean K. Harrison, founding director of the Office of Expanded Educational Opportunity and a pioneer on behalf of federal fell
 KLEINFELD-Morris, M.D. The medical staff of Maimonides Medical Center expresses with sorrow the death of Dr. Morris Kleinfeld. Dr. Kleinfeld was associated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Department of Medicine for over fifty years. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Sincer
 MARCUS-Melvin G. With profound sorrow and an indelible sense of loss, The American Geographical Society records the sudden death of its Councilor (since 1980) and Vice President (since 1986) Melvin G. Marcus on March 2nd. His sound judgement, devotion, integrity, instinct for consensus, cre
 PITTLE-Cantor Stuart. The American Conference of Cantors mourns the untimely death of its cherished officer, Stuart Pittle. A cantor's cantor, respected and beloved by his congregants and colleagues, Cantor Pittle's sweet voice was surpassed only by his magnificent spirit and his gentle and
 RECANATI-Jacques. The Board of Trustees, Medical Board, and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledge with sadness the passing of Jacques Recanati, dear brother of Raphael Recanati, our generous benefactor and Honorary Member of the Board. To Eliane, the beloved wife of Jacqu
 RECANATI-Ya'acov. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of the beloved brother of Raphael (and Dina) Recanati, YU Guardians who endowed the University's Recanati Courses in Kabbalah and, at our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, the Raphael Recanati Fellowship 
 ROBINS-Walter F. Passed away March 3, 1997 at his home in Fort Meyers, FL., of cancer. He served in World War II, 343rd Infantry. Retired as a Civil Engineer. Originally from New York. He lived 33 years in West Nyack, later retired to Fort Myers. Beloved husband of Esther, cherished father 
 WEIDLICH-Clifton F. Died on his 96th birthday at Lenox Hill Hospital. Predeceased by his wife Katherine. Survived by his son William, and his 3 grandchildren: Anne and Elizabeth both of Darien, CT and Bradford of Seal Beach, CA.; his brother Homer of Fairfield, CT. also survives; his brothe
 Dr. Robert H. Dicke, who predicted the discovery of the Big Bang echo, conducted classic experiments in gravity and for a time was a chief challenger to Einstein's general theory of relativity, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J., after a long illness. He was 80. The cause
 Jascha Brodsky, a violinist who performed as a member of the Curtis String Quartet for more than 50 years and was renowned as a teacher, died on Monday at the Palm Garden Nursing Home in Ocala, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Brodsky was born in Kharkov, Ukraine, in 1907 and was the son of a vi
 Miladin Zivotic, a leading dissident during the Communist era in Yugoslavia and one of the most prominent domestic critics of Serbian involvement in the Balkan wars, died at his home in Belgrade on Feb. 26. He was 66. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. M
 BASSUK-Bertram L. FAIA. Of NYC. Esteemed architect, died March 2, 1997. Beloved brother of Harold and Gloria, cherished uncle of Jeffrey and Janice, treasured cousin and friend. A memorial gathering to celebrate his life will be held at the Community Room, 343 Eighth Avenue (27th Street), 2
 BRODSKY-Jascha. The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the passing of its alumnus and faculty member Jascha Brodsky, who held the Efrem Zimbalist Chair for Violin Studies until his death. He is survived by his wife and three children, to whom we send our heartfelt sympathy. Gary Graffman, Pre
 CLEARY-Peter J. It is with deep sadness that we mourn the loss of our muched loved colleague and friend. For over 40 years, Peter shared his expertise as an appraiser and auctioneer. Our officers, appraisers, and staff extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Cleary family. We will forever
 ENRIGHT-Thomas E., Jr. Retired New York City Police Sergeant of Manhattan, age 68. Beloved uncle of Catherine Muldoon, John, Daniel and Martin O'Brien. His grandfather was Richard Enright, former Police Commissioner of New York City Police Department. His father was Thomas Enright, Sr., for
 FINK-Stanley. In Memory of the Hon. Stanley Fink, Esq. The faculty, staff, administration and students of Kingsborough Community College join all residents of the City and State of New York in mourning the untimely passing of the Honorable Stanley Fink, Esq., former State Assembly Speaker a
 FOX-Everett V. The trustees, faculty, and staff of New York University Medical Center deeply mourn the loss of Everett V. Fox age 81, March 3, former Secretary and Vice President of the Medical Center. Mr. Fox joined the Medical Center in 1965 as administrator for its affiliation contracts.
 FREEDMAN-Henry, M.D. The Board of Regents, Administration, Medical Staff and the staff of the Mary Polak Oenslager Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of The Long Island College Hospital mourn the loss of Dr. Henry Freedman, professor and former director of the department of obstetrics 
 GOULD-Benjamin F. Died on March 1, 1997, at age 94. Loved and missed by his wife of 70 years, Dorothy, by his two sons and daughters-in-law, Frank and Nora Gould and Bill and Sue Gould, by his 5 grand children, Beth, Nicole, Andy, Debbie and Leslie, by his 2 great-grandchildren, Madaline an
 GREENFIELD-Arnold. On March 5, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Cherished brother of Elsie Honigberg and Ruth Taub. Adored uncle. President of Greenfield Brick Corp. Longtime resident of Forest Hills, New York. Services Thursday, 10:30 A.M., ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels''
 HAYNES-Joseph Harold. Professional engineer, aviator, friend. The Board of Directors and staff of the Society for the Preservation of Weeksville and Bedford-Stuyvesant History wish to express deep sorrow at the passing of our beloved Founding Member and convey sympathy to his family. Eleano
 HIRSCH-Richard Alan, 43, of New York City. Devoted and beloved son of Suzanne and Stanley Hirsch; dear brother of Laurie Shor. He will be missed and loved forever. Services Friday, 12 noon at Gutterman's, Woodbury, Long Island, (516-921-5757).       
 LASKEY-George Henry III, D.D.S. Of Bronxville, N.Y. On March 4, 1997. Husband of Ernestine Brian Laskey. Father of Cynthia Kellogg. Father-in-law of Norman Kellogg. Grandfather of Kristin and Scott Kellogg. Brother of Joan de Graffenreid. Memorial service at Christ Church, Bronxville on Fri
 MANN-Scott, 22 years old. Beloved son of Todd and Sarah Mann and brother to Ken Mann. Died late Sunday evening from a car crash on Saturday morning. Known in the community as a loving, loyal and hardworking person. He will be greatly missed by all whose lives he touched.       
 RAUSCHER-Donald J. Manhattan School of Music mourns the loss of longtime friend and former colleague, Donald J. Rauscher. Mr. Rauscher served as the School's Registrar for fifteen years as well as a member of the Theory faculty. His invaluable warmth and giving will be sorely missed by all 
 RECANATI-Jacob. We mourn the death of Jacob Recanati, brother of our devoted Trustee and Benefactor, Raphael Recanati. To him and his entire family, our deepest sympathy. Appeal of Conscience Foundation Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. & Dr. David H.C. Read Vice 
 RECANATI-Yaacov. The Boys Town Jerusalem family mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Yaacov Recanati, beloved brother of our generous benefactor, Mr. Raphael Recanati who, together with his wife Dina, established a major perpetual scholarship endowment in loving memory of his father, 
 SCHACK-Samuel, 82, died March 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Rose, devoted father of Bernard of Gaithersburg, MD., Marlene of Brooklyn, and Larry of Wantaugh, N.Y. Grandfather of Eric, Marc, Lisa, Christie, Vanessa and Carol. Was active in Brooklyn Chapter Retirees, Local 3, IBEW. We'll all mi
 WARTOFSKY-Marx W. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, teacher, philosopher and activist. A brilliant intellectual, he pursued wisdom and truth all his life. Champion of equality and the rights of the oppressed. Funeral services Friday, 12 Noon, Riverside, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 WAXMAN-Bob. On March 4, 1997. Survived by his long-time companion Robert Schiraldi and aunt Edith Singer of Atlantic City, N.J. Memorial service will be held on Friday, 2:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 Roger Brown, the former high school star from Brooklyn who was denied a chance to compete in college or in the National Basketball Association but who played eight sterling seasons for the Indiana Pacers of the American Basketball Association, died on Tuesday at the home of a friend in Indi
 Stanley Fink, a Brooklyn Democrat who helped strengthen the power of the New York State Legislature during his term as Assembly Speaker in the post-Rockefeller era, died Tuesday night at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart 
 Wayne David Fischer, a New York City high school teacher who publicly disclosed his infection with the AIDS virus and then chronicled the progress of the illness in a weekly television program, died of the disease on Sunday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 39 and lived in Manhattan.       
 Cheddi B. Jagan, the firebrand who led Guyana to independence and was one of the Caribbean's most contentious political leaders for half a century, died yesterday in Washington, where he had been hospitalized after a heart attack. He was 78. Dr. Jagan had undergone heart surgery at 
 BARON-Melvin L. On March 5, 1997 at age 70. Weidlinger Associates is deeply saddened by the passing of a beloved and respected friend and colleague. As founding partner and Chairman of the Board of Weidlinger Associates, he nourished and inspired our firm with unerring judgement, tireless e
 BASSUK-Bertram L. FAIA. Of NYC. Esteemed architect, died March 2, 1997. Beloved brother of Harold and Gloria, cherished uncle of Jeffrey and Janice, treasured cousin and friend. A memorial gathering to celebrate his life will be held at the Community Room, 343 Eighth Avenue (27th Street), 2
 BURKO-David. Passed away March 5, 1997 in Miami Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Doris Burko. Cherished father of Diane Burko and adored grandfather of Jessica Burko. He was an active member of the real estate community of New York and Brooklyn for over forty years. He was deeply respected and
 de ALMEIDA-Antonio. The Nestle Corporation and the musicians and staff of the Moscow Symphony Orchestra mourn the loss of their beloved Music Director, Antonio de Almeida. Maestro de Almeida had the courage to come to us at a time of grave national turmoil. His unflagging faith in the unive
 ELEFTERAKIS-John, M.D. His friends and colleagues at Lutheran Medical Center mourn the sudden loss of Dr. John Elefterakis. We will miss his engaging wit and personal energy as much as his medical competence and devotion to his patients. John was affiliated with Lutheran Medical Center for 
 FINK-Stanley. Stanley Fink was one of the great leaders of New York State. As the Democratic Leader of the New York State Senate while he was Speaker of the Assembly, I was proud to be his partner in many of the great accomplishments in which he led the way: The first of several major capit
 FISCHER - Wayne. Courageous AIDS activist and friend, a candidate GLID was proud to endorse. His impact won't be forgotten. Gay & Lesbian Independent Democrats       
 FREEDMAN-Henry, MD. In appreciation and gratitude for his many years of dedicated and conscientious service as Medical Director and Member of the Board of Trustees of Cobble Hill Nursing Home Administration. Demetra Polinos, President Board Director Olga Lipschutz Executive Director       
 KUHL-John. Of New Vernon, N.J. Died Wednesday at Morristown Memorial Hospital. He was 61. He was born in Unsleben, Germany and came to New York City in 1938. He was raised in the Washington Heights section of New York City. Mr. Kuhl worked as a metal salesman & in 1965 started his own compa
 LEIBOWITS-Samuel H. Of Bal Harbour passed away Wednesday March 5, 1997. He is the beloved husband of the late Gerri Leibowits, loving father of Robert (June) Leibowits, cherished grandfather of Louis and Sarah Leibowits. Funeral services Friday March 7, 1997, 11:00 AM at Blasberg Rubin Zilb
 LEYDET-Francois G. The death of Francois Leydet brings to end a life filled with joy, adventure, love and accomplishment. Born 26 August 1927 at Neuilly-sur-Seine (France), he became a U.S. citizen in 1956 after attending prep school and colleges in both France and the U.S.: bachelor's degr
 PETELKA-SAMBORSKI-Michal. On March 5 in his 90th year. An intensely blue-eyed handsome man of great charm to the end. A man of deep faith & honor. A sensitive artist and successful at all he did. A member of the Polish Navy (submarine) who loved the sea, nature, all animals. He passionately
 RETTINGER-David H. 93, on March 2. Devoted and loving husband of Ginny, his one and only for 68 years. Father of Martin, Phyllis, Diane and daughter-in-law Jill Considine, son-in-law Dr. David Ratner. Nine grand children, eight great-grand children, brother of Sam. Interned March 4 at New M
 SETTY-Don. The Rita J. and Stanley H. Kaplan Family Foundation wishes to express its profound sorrow at the untimely death of Don Setty-a dear associate and friend. His talent, wit, generosity and sensitivity to the needs of those around him will be sorely missed.       
 TAPPER-Albert, M.D. Died on March 5, 1997, at the age of 89. Adoring husband of Jean L. Tapper, loving father of Helaine T. Gold and Michael Tapper, devoted grandfather of Roger Gold. A devoted physician for more than 40 years, he was loved and cherished by his many patients & esteemed by h
 WALL-Edwin Craig, Jr., age 59, died on Wednesday, March 5, 1997 in Charlotte, NC. Mr. Wall was born in Conway, the son of May Howard Wall and the late Edwin Craig Wall, Sr. He was a resident of Conway and a lifelong member of Kingston Presbyterian Church where he served as a trustee. Mr. Wa
 WARTOFSKY-Marx. The entire Baruch College community mourns the passing of our beloved colleague, Marx Wartofsky. A distinguished Professor of Philosophy and a widely respected scholar, he will be missed by generations of students for whom he was an inspiration. We extend our deepest condole
 POLLOCK-Morris. Dear Dad, on his 100th birthday. Sadly missed. Harold       
 Christopher Boatwright, a principal dancer with the Stuttgart Ballet, the San Francisco Ballet and the Lines Contemporary Ballet, died on Sunday at the Laguna Honda Hospital in San Francisco. Mr. Boatwright was 42 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was AIDS, said a Lines spokeswo
 Melvin G. Marcus, a specialist in alpine and polar geography who headed several national commissions to assess geographic education, died on Sunday while on a field trip in the snow-covered mountains near Silverton, Colo. He was 67 and lived in Tempe, Ariz., where he was a geography profess
 Michael Manley, who dominated Jamaican politics for a generation and became one of the most eloquent spokesmen for third-world causes, died Thursday night at his home outside Kingston. He was 72 and had long suffered from prostate cancer. In a political career that began under Briti
 ELEFTERAKIS-John, M.D., on March 6, 1997. Beloved husband of Dori. Loving father of Maria, John, Nicholas and Michael. Devoted son of Mary and John. Dear brother of Gregory and Valerie; Katherine and Dr. Nicholas Liakas. Reposing at Dahill Funeral Home, 2525 65th St., Brooklyn until Monday 
 FINK-Stanley. The Board of Directors, the management and the staff of The Legal Aid Society mourn the death of Stanley Fink, our distinguished colleague and dedicated long time supporter who served as a Vice President and as a member of the Board of Directors. We express our sincere condole
 GREEN-Chuck. New York Committee for national Tap Dance Day sorrowfully notes the passing of Tap Master and friend Chuck Green. He will be greatly missed.       
 RETTINGER-David H., 93, on March 2. Devoted and loving husband of Ginny, his one and only for 68 years. Father of Martin, Phyllis, Diane and daughter-inlaw Jill Considine, son-in-law Dr. David Ratner. Nine grandchildren, eight great-grandchildren, brother of Sam. Interred March 4 at New Mon
 RUBENSTEIN-Gilbert M. Professor Emeritus of English at Pace University died in Oceanside, NY on March 6th following a courageous struggle with lymphoma. A dedicated teacher to his students, Dr. Rubenstein served as English Dept. Chair, former President of the Faculty Council, and retired in
 WILLENS-Arnold, March 7, 1997, beloved teacher, mentor and friend of the children, parents and faculty of PS 41. His creativity, talent and love will never be forgotten. Community service March 9, 4 PM, 116 West 11th ST, NYC. PS 41, PTA WILLENS-Arnold. Good neighbor, good friend and
 ALLISON-George A. Determined to be, and was the best he could be. Leader, standard setter, life affirming inspiration to future generations, refined and profound soul in God's hands forever. Not a day passes... Jody and Raluca       
 Robert J. Lampman, a leading researcher on poverty, died on Tuesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 76. The cause of death was lung cancer, his family said. As an economist at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Mr. Lampman pioneered efforts to measure income distrib
 The Rev. Stanislaus J. Brzana, the 10th Bishop of the Diocese of Ogdensburg, which covers a large part of upstate New York, died on Saturday at St. Joseph Hospital in Cheektowaga. He was 79 and since his retirement had lived at a residence maintained by his diocese in Buffalo, where he grew
 Dan E. Sweat Jr., a self-styled Federal bagman and municipal whipping boy who spent 30 years whipping Atlanta into modern shape as its premier civic administrator, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Atlanta. He was 63 and had been suffering from stomach cancer. On paper, Mr. Sweat was n
 Dr. Donald D. Flickinger, an early expert on space medicine who as a World War II flight surgeon parachuted into the Himalayas to rescue downed fliers and later helped select the first seven Mercury astronauts, died on Feb. 23 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, where he lived.
 J. Carson Mark, who headed the theoretical division at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory when the hydrogen bomb was developed, died last Sunday in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 83 and lived in Los Alamos. The cause was complications related to a fall, said one of his daughters, Joan Mark N
 Lars Bergstrom, an aeronautical wizard whose personal affinity for boats led to many design innovations in yachts as well as airplanes, died last Sunday when an experimental glider he was testing crashed about two miles from the airport at Wauchula, Fla. He was 62. The craft appeare
 Nenad Dusan Popovic, a leading economic expert in Tito's Communist Yugoslavia who defected in 1961 to teach and write in exile at Syracuse University, died on Feb. 25 of bone cancer at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 87. Professor Popovic was chief of economic a
 CORBETT-Rev. James B., CSP. Age 88, on March 7, 1997 in Minneapolis, MN. A native of Toronto, Canada, Fr. Corbett was ordained a Paulist priest on June 15, 1935 at St. Paul the Apostle Church in New York City. He served in Paulist parishes in Chicago and Minneapolis and on mission assignmen
 FERMAN-Allan S. On Saturday, March 8, of heart failure, at age 55. He is survived by his wife of 22 years Vicki R. Breslaw, by his brother Robert L. Ferman, his mother Sarah Udin, and his nephews and nieces, Gary, Mark and Jaime Ferman. Funeral at ''The Riverside'' Tuesday, March 11, at 9:3
 GRUNERT-Vincent, died peacefully on March 2, 1997, at the age of 100. Born in Hungary on May 26, 1896, he emigrated to the U.S. in 1923, and lived in NYC for 71 years before moving to Houston, TX, to live near his son. A pioneer in color motion picture film processing, he worked for 39 year
 MARCUS-Melvin G. With profound sorrow and an indelible sense of loss, The American Geographical Society records the sudden death of its Councilor (since 1980) and Vice President (since 1986) Melvin G. Marcus on March 2nd. His sound judgement, devotion, integrity, instinct for consensus, cre
 Dr. Waldo E. Nelson, the author of the leading textbook of pediatrics for 40 years, died on March 2 at his home in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 98. A distinguished medical educator, Dr. Nelson was the chairman of the department of pediatrics at Temple University and the medical director of 
 William Clinton Kirkwood, a retired New York insurance executive who until recently was financial adviser to hospitals on Long Island and in his native Brooklyn, died on Feb. 26 during surgery at St. Joseph's Hospital in Savannah, Ga. A former resident of Garden City, L.I., he was 76 and li
 William Joseph Cahill Jr., the nuclear engineering executive whom the New York Power Authority brought back in 1994 to fix the trouble-prone generators he had helped build for Con Edison decades earlier, died Feb. 26 at a Dallas hospital. He was 73 and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and S
 William Joseph Manning, a retired senior partner in the Manhattan-based international law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, died after a long illness on March 1 at Jupiter Hospital in Jupiter, Fla., where he kept a winter home. He was 70 and lived in Garden City and Westhampton Beach, L.I
 Alfred Sheinwold of Los Angeles, one of the leading personalities in the world of bridge, died Saturday in Sherman Oaks Hospital, Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 85 and had suffered a series of strokes, said his wife, Paula Sheinwold. Mr. Sheinwold gave service to bridge in seven decade
 Edward M. Purcell, who made it possible to ''listen'' to the whisperings of hydrogen throughout the universe, died Friday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 84. The cause was respiratory failure,  a son said. Dr. Purcell had been associated with Harvard University since 1936, retiri
 Ernest Charles Pollard, a pioneer in the field of biophysics, died on Feb. 24 at a hospital in Jupiter, Fla. A former resident of State College, Pa., he was 90 and lived in retirement on the Isle of Wight, England. He suffered a stroke while vacationing in Florida, said a friend, Pr
 The Rev. Dr. Mac Charles Jones, the Baptist minister who led the National Council of Churches' drive to focus attention on a wave of racist arson fires at black churches in the rural South, died on Friday at a hospital near Dallas. He was 47 and had been the council's deputy general secreta
 Marx William Wartofsky, a prominent professor of philosophy at Baruch College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. He suffered a heart attack, said his wife, Carol C. Gould, who was his co-editor for ''Woman
 Oscar Lewenstein, a theater and film producer who was a central figure at the Royal Court Theater in London from the early 50's until the mid-70's, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Brighton. He was 80. Mr. Lewenstein worked with some of the most innovative figures in British theater a
 FERMAN-Allan S. On Saturday, March 8, of heart failure, at age 55. He is survived by his wife of 22 years Vicki R. Breslaw, by his brother Robert L. Ferman, his mother Sarah Udin, and his nephews and nieces, Gary, Mark and Jaime Ferman. Funeral at ''The Riverside'' Tuesday, March 11, at 9:3
 FISCHHOF-Zoltan. We greatly mourn the loss of our ''Daddy'' and ''Grandpa'' Zoltan Fischhof, the ever loving and giving man of honor with his candies and kisses to constantly to please everyone he ever came in contact with. Shiva will be observed at the Fischhof residence. The family       
 HUPFEL-John G. Born in 1900 in New York City, died March 8, 1997, in Gulf Stream, Florida. He was 96 years old. He administered the last of New York's big real estate businesses based on the holdings of the early German brewing families. He worked for the J. Chr. G. Hupfel Co., Inc. while i
 JONES-Robin Carpenter. Age 63, unexpectedly, on March 7, 1997, of 12 B. Frank St., Rockport, MA. Survived by his wife Elizabeth (Frere) Jones; two sons Alexander R. W. Frere-Jones and his wife Deborah K. Holmes, NYC, and Tobias E. M. Frere-Jones, Boston; two sisters Ann Dolbear, W. Newton, 
 LICHTENSTEIN-Emanuel (Manny), March 8. Loving husband of Kaye and father of Joanna, both of whom predeceased him, grandfather of Emma Sheanshang and father-in-law of George. He will be missed by his nieces and nephews and their children for his generous nature and his humor. Interment priva
 SCHIROTA-Dr. Harry. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. William A. Blumstein, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Judith Schindler, Asst. Rabbi       
 Martin Kippenberger, widely regarded as one of the most talented German artists of his generation, died on Friday at the University of Vienna Hospital. He was 43 and had moved to Vienna last year. The cause was cancer, said Gisela Capitain, his agent and dealer. A dandyish, 
 BALL-Peter W. On March 8, 1997, of lymphoma. Born in Leicester, England, in 1921. Served in the Royal Navy (Fleet Air Arm) during W.W. II. Dedicated British Airways executive for 38 years, respected aviation/real estate consultant, enthusiastic world traveler and pilot. He will be remembere
 BELL-James Milton, MD, LSAPA, FACP, Colonel-M.C., U.S.A., retired, of Hudsonview, Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, on March 9th, son of the late Lucy H. Barnes-Bell and Charles E. Bell; beloved brother of Jacqueline B. Moorhead, June B. Brown, Lucy B. Powell, Mattie B. Bell and Randol
 BERKO-Gustave. Beloved father of Pauline and Sol, Paul and Lorraine, Jerome and Honie. Adored grandfather of Ellen, Iris, David, Alan, Danny, Mitchel, Karen and Amy, and cherished great grandfather. Funeral service Tuesday, March 11th, 12 Noon, Riverside, 312 Coney Island Ave, Bklyn.       
 BOBER-Irving L., age 90, of Fair Lawn, N.J. Born in Poland and formerly of Passaic, NJ. A World War II Army Veteran. Graduate of New Jersey Law School in 1927. Practicing Attorney in Passaic until 1937. Owner of Apollo Stationery Inc. in New York City, until his retirement in 1983. Survived
 COLETTI-PERUCCA-Sonio Edward, died Sunday, March 9, of cancer. Age 77. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Onorio and Marc Andrea, and stepfather of Jackie Drexel. He is survived by six grandchildren. He was born in New York City, November 12, 1919. He served with distinction as a
 DABBAGH-Fehmi M. We greatly mourn the loss of our beloved husband, father and grandfather. Born in Jaffa, Palestine in 1911, he died March 10, 1997 in Hamilton, N.J. He was the City Engineer of Jaffa, Palestine from 1937 to 1948. He is survived by his wife Claire Burger Dabbagh, four childr
 DAMAST-David. Congregation Beth Sholom of Long Beach and Lido records with sorrow the passing of its longtime member and benefactor who served as our Chairman for Israel Bonds and UJA. His love of Israel, our synagogue and all things Jewish will long be remembered. We extend heartfelt sympa
 DEVLIN-John Edward Lawrence. On March 9, 1997 in his 97th year. A native New Yorker, the wellknown ''Duke'' of Brooklyn Prepartory. Mass of Christian Burial Thursday, 10 AM, at Immaculate Conception Church, 414 East 14th Street, NYC. Interment Gate of Heaven Cemetery.       
 FEINSTEIN-Michael. We extend our sympathy to the family and friends of our founding member who gave over thirty years of devoted service to our organization. He will be deeply missed. Albert Ellis Institute Board of Trustees       
 FERMAN-Allan S. On Saturday, March 8, of heart failure, at age 55. He is survived by his wife of 22 years Vicki R. Breslaw, by his brother Robert L. Ferman, his mother Sarah Udin, and his nephews and nieces, Gary, Mark and Jaime Ferman. Funeral at ''The Riverside'' Tuesday, March 11, at 9:3
 FOOTE-Freeman, 88. Of Williamstown, MA, died on March 7th. Williams College Professor of Geology and Mineralogy emeritus. He is survived by his wife Sally Newnham Carlton Foote of Williamstown, and daughter Nancy Newnham Foote of New York City.       
 FRANKL-Erwin. Passed away peacefully Sunday, March 9, two weeks before his 86th birthday. Beloved husband, father, father-inlaw, dear friend and relative, who will be long remembered by all who knew him and loved him.       
 FREEDMAN-Irving S. I have lost my delicious husband who was also a loving uncle and great-uncle and was loved by his many nieces and nephews. He was a Trustee and friendly council to the Park East Synagogue as well as Sam & Esther Minskoff Cultural Center. He was a Real Estate Division Chai
 GOTTLIEB-Harry, M.D. March 9, 1997. Husband of Betty. Father of Diane & Marc, David and Becky. Grandfather of Katja and Leo. Memorial services Wed., 4 P.M., Kaiser Auditorium, Allegheny Univ. Hospital-MCP, 3300 Henry Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa. Shiva will be observed at his late residence. Co
 HARENBERG-Dorothy. The officers, directors, administration and staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend their heartfelt sympathy to Assemblyman Paul E. Harenberg and his family on the passing of his mother Dorothy, a resident of the Gurwin Center. Assemblyman Harenberg has been a 
 HETSKO-Cyril F., 85, retired Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Director of American Brands, Inc., died Saturday, March 1, of complications of pneumonia at The Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, NJ. Mr. Hetsko was instrumental in the diversification during the 1960's and 1970's of The Am
 LICHTENSTEIN-Emanuel (Manny), on March 8. Loving husband of Kaye and father of Joanna, both of whom predeceased him, grandfather of Emma Sheanshang and father-in-law of George. He will be missed by his nieces and nephews and their children for his generous nature and his humor. Interment pr
 ROTHMAN - Jules. Middlebury, CT. Jules Rothman, a/k/a Julius Rothman, 90, of South Street, died early Monday morning at his home. He was the husband of Anneke (Roosen) Rothman. Mr. Rothman was born October 25, 1906, in New York City, son of the late Harry and Esther (Friedman) Rothman, and 
 SHAW-Dr. Herbert, 76, of New York City. Died in Chapel Hill, N.C. Sunday evening. Dr. Shaw was a Dentist in New York City serving the public for 45 years. He served in the army from 1944 until 1946. Dr. Shaw is survived by his wife Eleanore of New York City, his son Gary and wife Kate of Ch
 SILVERMAN-Louis. The Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of the Muttontown Club mourn the passing of their beloved member Louis Silverman, and extend their deepest sympathy to his wife Pearl and his family. Joel Simon, President SILVERMAN-Louis. Gin game at Muttowntown w
 SCHAEFER-Kenneth J. March 11, 1969. Forever remembered with love by all whose lives he touched. The Family       
 Dr. Pierre M. Galletti, a leading researcher on artificial organs and tissue engineering who helped found the Brown University School of Medicine, died on Saturday. He was 69 and lived in Providence and Little Compton, R.I. The cause was head trauma from a fall on Thursday, said San
 Hugo Weisgall, a composer distinguished primarily by his contributions to opera since World War II, died yesterday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after a fall on Friday. He was 84 and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Mr. Weisgall's musical personality was robust and resilient,
 Leon Danielian, an American ballet dancer known during the 1940's and 50's for his remarkable bravura and flair, died on Saturday at the Geer Nursing Home in Canaan, Conn. He was 75. The cause was heart failure, said Hercelia McDonald, his sister. ''The boy can dance like a 
 Marcy Chanin, a New York real estate executive and philanthropist who supported higher education, medicine and a number of Jewish organizations, died yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Chanin, who was 86, lived in Manhattan and had a winter home in Palm Beach.
 BAKER-Samm Sinclair. Samm was the author of thirty two books, two of them No. 1 Bestsellers, although his most cherished concern, what he considered to be his only important achievement, was his family: Loving and devoted husband of Natalie Baker, his wife of sixty years; beloved father of 
 BEIZER-Frances. The Officers, Trustees and members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the death of Frances Beizer, beloved mother of our Vice President, Matthew Beizer. May he find comfort in his sorrow, and may her memory be a source of blessing. Rabbi Gerald C. Skolnik Cantor Erno Gr
 BERKO-Gustave. A loving Patriarch to many. We are thankful for all of the warm memories. Our heartfelt thoughts are with the Berko Families. The Dimston Family BERKO-Gustave. His unconditional love made us all stronger and better people-If only to live up to his love of us. We will 
 BUXBAUM-Maury. Beloved husband of Marcella. Loving father of Victor & Larry. Dear grandfather of Adam and Rebecca. Cherished twin of Colman. He taught biology & photography to many devoted pupils. Lover of trees-donations may be made to Save-the-Redwoods, 114 Sansom Street, Room 605, San Fr
 CHANIN-Marcy. Died on March 11, Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Leona. Devoted father of Jim Chanin and Beryl Shaw, Ann and Michael Glazer, Nancy and Andrew Sneider. Loving grandfather of Rachel and Daniel Chanin, Seth, Marc and Andrew Gold and Sara Beth Glazer, David, Jodie and Sam
 COLETTI-PERUCCA-Sonio Edward, died Sunday, March 9, of cancer. Age 77. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Onorio and Marc Andrea, and stepfather of Jackie Drexel. He is survived by six grandchildren. He was born in New York City, November 12, 1919. He served with distinction as a
 DEVLIN-John Edward Lawrence. On March 9, 1997 in his 97th year. A native New Yorker, the wellknown ''Duke'' of Brooklyn Prepartory. Mass of Christian Burial Thursday, 10 AM, at Immaculate Conception Church, 414 East 14th Street, NYC. Interment Gate of Heaven Cemetery.       
 FREEDMAN-Henry, M.D. The Department wishes to express its profound sorrow of the death of Dr. Henry Freedman. He was appointed to the faculty in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn in 1977. The Department extends its 
 FREEDMAN-Irving S. I have lost my delicious husband who was also a loving uncle and great-uncle and was loved by his many nieces and nephews. He was a Trustee and friendly council to the Park East Synagogue as well as Sam & Esther Minskoff Cultural Center. He was a Real Estate Division Chai
 GRANGER - Percy. Playwright, screenwriter and actor, 51, died Tues, March 10, of cardiac arrest. He was the son of Dr. Bruce Granger, retired professor of English at the University of Oklahoma, and Rosemary Ingham, painter. He graduated from Harvard University magna cum laude in 1967. He be
 GUTERMAN-Dr. Simeon L. With deep sorrow the American Jewish Museum of Art and Culture mourns the passing of its Board Member Dr. Simeon Guterman. A distinguished and scholarly gentleman, his interests and writings encompassed classical medieval history and the history of law. A man of extra
 HAMILTON-Dr. Francis J. The faculty and staff of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Department of Psychiatry note with profound sorrow the passing of Dr. Francis J. Hamilton, former Medical Director of the Westchester Division from 1965 until his retirement in 1973, and respected
 HANSON-Maury, on Monday, March 10, peacefully at age 89, in Naples, Florida. Beloved husband of 57 years to Margaret Hixon Hanson, loving father of Robert Hixon Hanson of Cody, WY, Michael Francis Hanson II of Bonita Springs, FL, and Barbara Hanson Pierce of New York City and Salt Point, NY
 LAHEY-Joseph T., Rev. Msgr. On March 10, 1997. Beloved son of the late James H. & Leonora. Devoted brother of Dorothy Molony, Anne Greiner, Richard and the late Mary Sweeney, Leonora Drew, Veroncia Gargiulo & Harry. Mass of Transferral Thursday 7:30PM, and Mass of Christian Burial on Friday
 PAYNTER-Grenville Howard. 65. On March 9, 1997 in Tucson, AZ. He is survived by his wife Sally Gooch Paynter and by his three children, Bradford Grenville, Cameron Clark, Nathaniel Collingwood and by his mother Mary Jane Howard Paynter and brother Richard Kates Paynter III. An executive of 
 SCHWARTZ-Max. Of Middle Village, N.Y. On March 10, 1997 in his 77th year. Devoted husband of Nancy for forty years. Beloved father of Laura, Paul, David and Daniel. Father-in-law of Katharene. 1st Lt U.S. Army 1941-1945. Employee of the National Labor Relations Board from 1948-1993 in New O
 SIRIS-Irwin E., M.D. on March 10, 1997. Beloved husband of Florence and the late Lucille. Loving father of Suzanne Wexler, of Cambridge, Carol and Martin Roaman and the late James Siris. Devoted grandfather of Lisa, Marea, and William Wexler, Eileen Catalano and Bradford Roaman. Dear brothe
 VIRSHUP-Dr. Bernard, Cardiologist; for the past 25 years a pioneer in Humanistic Medicine; Author of ''Coping in Medical School'' and many other books and articles. He was Clinical Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at UCLA School of Medicine, Associate Clinical Professor at US
 WEISGALL-Hugo David, on March 11, 1997, aged 84. Devoted husband of Nathalie, loving father of Deborah and Jonathan, fatherin-law of Ruth Weisgall and Throop Wilder, adoring grandfather of Alison, Andrew, Benjamin Weisgall, and Charlotte Wilder. Services March 12th, 2:30 PM, Feinberg Audito
 Carld Jonaissant, a dancer with Dance Theater of Harlem and American Ballet Theater, a choreographer and a designer, died on Feb. 28 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 35 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said his brother, Jude Jonaissant. Writin
 Col. John R. Boyd, a legendary Air Force fighter pilot whose discovery that quicker is better than faster became the basis of a far-reaching theory that helped revolutionize American military strategy, died on March 9 at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 70 and had lived in Delray 
 BAKER-Samm Sinclair. Samm was the author of thirty two books, two of them No. 1 Bestsellers, although his most cherished concern, what he considered to be his only important achievement, was his family: Loving and devoted husband of Natalie Baker, his wife of sixty years; beloved father of 
 BALDWIN-David. Raconteur, actor, painter, beloved son of Berdis Emma Baldwin and brother of the late distinguished writer James Baldwin, died March 10th, 1997. His survivors include a son, Daniel, his wife, Marion Russell Baldwin, two brothers George and Wilmer, five sisters: Barbara Jamiso
 BELL-James Milton, M.D., L.F.A.P.A., F.A.C.P., Col. USA (Ret.), of Canaan and Croton-onHudson, NY. The Board of Directors, staff, children and families of Berkshire Farm Center & Services for Youth mourn the tragic loss of our esteemed and cherished colleague, friend and inspiration. Throug
 BENJAMIN - Barry. Beloved friend. We will miss him.       
 BERKO-Gustave. Very sincere condolences to Jerry Berko and his family on their terrible loss. We all hope for happier days to come. The Schwalbe Family       
 CHANIN-Marcy. Died on March 11, Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Leona. Devoted father of Jim Chanin and Beryl Shaw, Ann and Michael Glazer, Nancy and Andrew Sneider. Loving grandfather of Rachel and Daniel Chanin, Seth, Marc and Andrew Gold and Sara Beth Glazer, David, Jodie and Sam
 COLETTI-PERUCCA-Sonio Edward, died Sunday, March 9, of cancer. Age 77. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Onorio and Marc Andrea, and stepfather of Jackie Drexel. He is survived by six grandchildren. He was born in New York City, November 12, 1919. He served with distinction as a
 FAULDING-Charles. The 100,000member Transport Workers Union of America mourns the passing of our retired Secretary Treasurer on March 9, 1997 after a brief illness at Parkway Hospital, Forest Hills, Queens. He was 81. He had retired in February 1991 after a distinguished 48-year career as a
 FREEDMAN-Irving S. We mourn the passing of our colleague, mentor and friend, Irving S. Freedman and extend our deepest sympathies to Harriette, his nieces and nephews and the rest of his family. His presence, skills and professionalism will be missed. Felcher Fox & Litner, PC FREEDM
 HANSON-Maury, on Monday, March 10, peacefully at age 89, in Naples, Florida. Beloved husband of 57 years to Margaret Hixon Hanson, loving father of Robert Hixon Hanson of Cody, WY, Michael Francis Hanson II of Bonita Springs, FL, and Barbara Hanson Pierce of New York City and Salt Point, NY
 KALMUS-Allan H. March 12, 1997. Adored husband of Ellin, father of Susan and Donald Partier, John Kalmus and Linda Marino, James Silberstein and Sarah McGill, Barbara and Barney Keezell, John Silberstein and Caroline Erisman, grandfather of eleven. His humor and warmth touched all who knew 
 MARSHALL-J. Julian Howard Jr., age 74, of Biddeford Pool, Maine and formerly of Irvington, NY, died Tuesday at a Maine Hospital. He graduated from Princeton University where he was on the 1941 National Champion LaCrosse Team. He served in W.W. II as a liaison pilot with the 43rd Artillery i
 McKEAN-Col. Gordon William. U.S. Army Ret. 88, February 18, 1997. He received his BA and MS from CCNY and an LL.B. from Fordham University. He was a partner in the NY law firm of McLaughlin, Stickles, McKean & Hayden, and later general counsel & executive VP of Grolier, Inc. Col. McKean als
 PAYNTER-Grenville H. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the New York City School Volunteer Program, Inc., are saddened by the death of Grenville H. Paynter, a dedicated Trustee, and extend deepest sympathies to his family. We will miss him for his insight and sincere concern for
 SAPERSTEIN - Abraham. On March 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Rose; loving father of Carol and Allan; grandfather of three. He will be missed by all.       
 WEISGALL-Dr. Hugo. The officers and members of the Cantors Assembly record in deep sadness the passing of one of the great American composers of our generation. Superbly skilled in opera and lied composition, recipient of numerous prestigious awards, a stubbornly dedicated teacher and mento
 ZELLINGER-John J., M.D. The Board of Governors and Administration of Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester mourn, with deep sorrow, the passing of Dr. John Zellinger. Dr. Zellinger served the Medical Center, with distinction, for 49 years. His surgical skills, compassion and devotion to
 Percy Granger, a playwright who focused his sharp-edged wit on academia, television, advertising and other vulnerable subjects, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 51. He suffered a cardiac arrest, said his wife, MariElena. He had been unable to work since a previous car
 Chuck Green, one of the last of the great tap dance stars from the 1930's and 40's, died on March 7 at the Oakridge Care Center in Oakland, Calif., after a long illness. He was 78 and lived in Oakland. Mr. Green played an important role in American tap history. He  learned his art f
 Kevin M. Murphy, a 39-year-old professor of business economics at the University of Chicago, has been chosen as the winner of the John Bates Clark Medal from the American Economic Association, economists on the awards panel said yesterday. Though the Clark Medal, awarded every other
 M. Frederik Smith, a business consultant and conservationist, died on Wednesday at the Stella Maris Nursing Center in Towson, Md. Mr. Smith, who lived in Towson, was 88, and had retired in 1991 after a stroke. For nearly 30 years, Mr. Smith was a consultant on conservation to Lauran
 BELL-James Milton, M.D., L.F.A.P.A., F.A.C.P., Col. USA (Ret.), of Canaan and Croton-onHudson, NY. The Board of Directors, staff, children and families of Berkshire Farm Center & Services for Youth mourn the tragic loss of our esteemed and cherished colleague, friend and inspiration. Throug
 BENTON-Monroe. The Board of Governors and members of the DeWitt Clinton High School Alumni Association note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow Board member, classmate and friend, Monroe Benton, and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife and family. Neil Harrow, President      
 BONNOT-Captain Emile L., on March 11, 1997, longtime resident of Teaneck, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy (nee Gray). Uncle of William Gray, cousin of Shirley Holland. Godfather of Lynn Kuuscla. Captain Bonnot was a combat veteran of six campaigns in the Pacific Theater during W.W. 
 CHASAN-Will. Labor writer, on March 12, 1997. Survived by beloved companion Miriam Davis and devoted friend Vilma Goldstein. A loving brother, brother-inlaw, uncle, father and grandfather. A gentle man who will be sorely missed. Shiva at his home until Wednesday.       
 CONROY-Robert Gerard, CPA, devoted husband of Ann B., beloved father of Kyle, Curt, Kimberly and Robert, Jr., adored grandfather of Pierce, Findlay, Garrett, Caroline, Sean, and Kathryn. Memorial services will be held at 2 PM Sat., March 15th at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Ave. and
 FAULDING-Charles. The 100,000member Transport Workers Union of America mourns the passing of our retired Secretary Treasurer on March 9, 1997 after a brief illness at Parkway Hospital, Forest Hills, Queens. He was 81. He had retired in February 1991 after a distinguished 48-year career as a
 GOODZEIT-David S., died suddenly on March 12. Surviving are his wife, Sylvia; daughters, Andrea and Margaret; brothers, Milton and Irving; and grandchildren, Jamie, Elizabeth and Steven. Memorial contributions may be sent to Congregation Hope of Israel, 843 Walton Ave., Bronx, NY 10451.    
 HAUSMAN-Blanche. We note with sorrow the passing of our aunt and great aunt. A woman of charm and grace. Our heartfelt condolences to Leo and his family. Bruce, Amy, Arlene Robert and Barbara Hausman       
 KALMUS-Allan H. March 12, 1997. Adored husband of Ellin, father of Susan and Donald Partier, John Kalmus and Linda Marino, James Silberstein and Sarah McGill, Barbara and Barney Keezell, John Silberstein and Caroline Erisman, grandfather of eleven. His humor and warmth touched all who knew 
 KONO-Harvey. Beloved husband of Francine. Son of Bella. Brother of Roberta Geula and Carl. Cherished father of Marc, Eric, Evan, Jonathan and Amberly. Father-inlaw of Melissa and Natalie. Loving grandfather of Skylar, Jordana, Gabrielle, Amanda and Casey. Harvey was the President of the Col
 LACEY-Donald E. The Parents' Association of the Bronx High School of Science, deeply mourns the passing of esteemed friend and P.A. Vice-President Don Lacey. He will be missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his son Sean Michael.       
 LAFER-Louis, on March 13, 1997 (age 80). Devoted husband of Claire. Beloved father of Sandra Greenberg, Barry and Alan. Loving grandfather of Seth, Sindy, Scott, Joshua, Peter, Casey and Samantha, great grandfather of Max. Surviving brothers Harry and Fred, sister Esther Roth. Services Frid
 MURRAY-Paul Francis, Dr. 58, died on February 24, 1997 of a heart attack. Paul earned a Ph.D in Business from GWU. He started his own company and built houses in CA. Paul retired to Osterville, MA, yet he was never at rest. He was a competitor in the 1972 Mr. America contest, a triathlete a
 PAYNTER-Grenville H. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the New York City School Volunteer Program, Inc., are saddened by the death of Grenville H. Paynter, a dedicated Trustee, and extend deepest sympathies to his family. We will miss him for his insight and sincere concern for
 REED-Phillip Dudley. March 14, 1993. In loving memory from his family. We miss you. Elizabeth, Jackson, and Phillip       
 Dr. Robert B. Leighton, a wide-ranging physicist whose work on telescopes and space exploration gave astronomers new views of the universe, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Pasadena, Calif., where he lived. He was 77. The cause was neurological disease, said his wife, Marge.     
 Bertram M. Gross, a public policy specialist, author and academician who was a forceful and persistent advocate of full employment, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday  in Walnut Creek, Calif., his widow, Kusum Singh, said. He was 84 years old. Although he earned no degrees i
 Dr. Dwight Locke Wilbur, a prominent San Francisco gastroenterologist and past president of the American Medical Association, who helped overcome the organization's aversion to Medicare as ''socialized medicine,'' died on Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93. In the 1960's
 Fred Zinnemann, the director who grappled with issues of moral courage in such Academy Award-winning films as ''From Here to Eternity'' in 1953 and ''A Man for All Seasons'' in 1966, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 89. Mr. Zinnemann also filmed ''The Search,'' a poignan
 Leonard Buder, who specialized in the coverage of education during his 41 years as a reporter for The New York Times, died on Thursday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 69 and lived in New Milford, Conn. The cause was multiple myeloma, his wife, Renee, said. In the
 COHEN-Frederick L., attorney, 89, of Brooklyn Heights, beloved husband of Helen, died Saturday, February 22, at Long Island College Hospital, after a short illness resulting from a fall. Attended NYC public schools and City College. Graduated St. John's University Law School. Veteran of Wor
 CRYSTAL-Bernard S., age 85, on March 13, 1997. For 61 years, beloved husband of Marjorie (nee Herne). Devoted father of Thomas, Bernard and Sydney and their partners Ann, Joan, and Bill. Loving grandfather of Michael, Paul, Susan, Joseph and Matthew, and soon to be great-grandfather. He was
 LAFER-Louis. To a special person, who will be greatly missed. His joyous love for life shall never be forgotten. Our sincerest sympanthies to Claire, Sandy, Barry and Alan and family. Enid and David Horne       
 SCHNITZER-Morris M., 86, died on March 8, 1997, in St. Barnabas Hospital, Livingston, NJ, following a short illness. He was a distinguished lawyer, legal scholar and teacher. His colleagues on the Editorial Board of the New Jersey Law Journal pay him honor.       
 SHAW-Dr. Herbert, 76, of New York City, died Sunday evening in Chapel Hill, NC. A native of Manhattan, NY, Dr. Shaw was a practicing dentist in New York City for 45 years. He is survived by: wife, Eleanor of New York; son, Gary Shaw and wife Kate of Chapel Hill. Daughter Robin Clarke and hu
 WEISGALL-Hugo. The faculty, students and administration of the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College mourn the death of Queens College Distinguished Professor Emeritus Hugo Weisgall. His ruggedly beautiful, deeply emotional and superbly crafted operas, choral works and song cycles
 Claude R. Sowle, the legal educator who served as president of Ohio University in Athens when the school became a focal point of student protests against the Vietnam War, died on March 2 in San Juan, P.R. He was 68 and lived in Miami. Mr. Sowle had been on his way to inspect a schoo
 Dean Kenneth Harrison, a New York college administrator who was a leader in encouraging women and members of minority groups to pursue advanced degrees, died on Feb. 28 at his home in the East Village of Manhattan. He was 73. He had been in failing health for some time, said his wif
 Joseph Harold Haynes, a supervising subway engineer whose curiosity and keen eye helped him find the remnants of a 19th-century black settlement hidden in a Brooklyn alley, died on March 2 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 66 and lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The
 Sir Martin Furnival Jones, who headed the British security apparatus when Western fears of Soviet penetration were at their obsessive cold war zenith, died on March 1. He was 84. Sir Martin's background in the spy trade went back to World War II. He saw his career blossom in an atmo
 Morey Bunin, a pioneer puppeteer in the early days of television, died on Feb. 26 at his home in Woodstock, N.Y. He was 86. As a puppeteer, Mr. Bunin created the television show ''The Adventures of Lucky Pup,'' which featured Foodini, a fumbling magician, and his inept assistant, Pi
 ADELBERG-Arnold J., formerly of Elkins Park, PA. Died March 12, 1997 at the Miami Heart Institute. He was the beloved husband of Joan Rittmaster Adelberg for 55 years; the loving father of Robert Adelberg of Cambridge, MA, and of the late Kathryn Adelberg Greenhouse of Huntingdon Valley, PA
 BUDER-Lenny. You will be missed and remembered, dear friend. Our heartfelt condolences to Renee and the family. The Jewish Community Center Sherman, CT BUDER-Leonard. We mourn the loss of our loving and wonderful friend and shall miss him dearly. Our hearts go out to Rennie and the 
 BURRELL-Edward R., 64, truly beloved father and husband, passed away peacefully at his home in Pinehurst, NC, on March 12, surrounded by his wife Nona and his children Scott, Ami, Nona, Eric and Nicole. Born in NYC to Edith and Edward J., he received his B.S. from RPI and retired as V.P., S
 DYSON-Charles H. Financier and philanthropist, died March 14, 1997, at the age of 87. Mr. Dyson lived in Millbrook, NY, and Barbados. At the time of his death, Charles H. Dyson was chairman emeritus of The Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation, a private company that he founded in 1954, which bec
 FELDMAN-Fred D. Died Mar. 14, 1997. Beloved husband of Louise (Koeppel), devoted father of Arlee and Richard Weiss, Jacalyn and Andrew Aaron, Carol and Mark Feldman. Loving grandfather of Michael Weiss, Robert Aaron, Meredith Aaron, Mindy Weiss, Stephanie Aaron, Alison Feldman, and Megan Fe
 FERRIS-Adrian G., passed away peacefully in Coral Springs, FL., March 3, 1997. Devoted, loving husband of Tina, adored brother of Dr. Craig and Nancy Ferris, uncle of Sam and Ian of Aurora, Ohio, and the late Norma Garcia Ferris, revered son of the late Samuel William and Norma Ferris of NY
 GOLDBERG-Dr. Harold Howard. On March 13, 1997. PhD. Psychologist in private practice 49 years. Journal editor and President of the American Psychological Association. Principal of the League School. He is survived by wife Roslyn and daughters Barbara, Lisa and Susan. Donations in his honor 
 MANN-Kalman Jacob. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Professor Kalman Jacob Mann, beloved former Director General of the Hadassah Medical Organization from 1951-81. Seventh generation Jerusalemite, Professor Mann was the builder of the Hadassah Medical Center at Ein Karem and rebuilt Ha
 MONTGOMERY-Robert Alexander. March 14, 1997, of Ardrossan Farms, Villanova, PA. Husband of the late Murray McI Taylor Montgomery. He is survived by his son Robert Leaming Montgomery II, his daughter Alexandra Montgomery Estey, three stepsons Edwin J. Schoettle, III, H.E. Taylor Schoettle, D
 PARK-Halford Woodward. Age 78, died March 11. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Greene Park, brother of Helen Park Haskell. He is survived by five children Margaret, Lothian, Halford, George, and Dabney, seven grandchildren and a great-grandchild. Veteran of US Navy, WWII, attorney at th
 STORPER-David, of Great Neck, on March 14, 1997. Loving and supportive father to Sarah, Barbara, Dan. Father-in-law to Gerry Field. Grandfather to Aaron and Jessica Field. Beloved partner to Ellen Rosen. Devoted son of the late Max and Sarah Storper and brother to Toby Lichtman and the late
 WEG-Stanley. Died March 12,1997. A very special man of great strength, honesty, wisdom, and wit. Stanley loved his family and always worked hard for us. He is survived by his loving wife Betty, his sons Drs. Oskar and Arnold, their wives Dr. Rachel and Susan, his grandchildren Nadav, Justin
 Wilfred C. Bain, former dean of the Indiana University School of Music, died on March 7 at his home in Bloomington, Ill. He was 89. Mr. Bain was dean of the music school from 1947 to 1973 and led its transformation from a regional institution to one of international stature. During 
 Clark H. Johnson, the chief financial officer of Johnson & Johnson, the worldwide health care products company, died on Thursday at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 61 and had lived in Princeton Township. The cause was cancer, said Jeffrey Le
 Frederick Tirrell Allen, a former chairman and chief executive of Pitney Bowes Inc. in Stamford, Conn., died on Thursday at Stamford Hospital. Mr. Allen, a resident of Greenwich, Conn., was 80. His death was caused by complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Charlotte-Ann Mac
 Joseph Fuchs, an American violinist long acclaimed for his vigorous, intelligent and technically assured performances of old and new music and for the quality of his teaching, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97. Mr. Fuchs was one of those select musicians admired as 
 BERGHOLD - William F. On March 16, 1997. Devoted husband for 64 years of the late Julia. Loving mother of Connie Murray, Billy Berghold and Julie Sykes. Motherin-law of Joanne Berghold and Jamie Sykes. Also survived by ten grandchildren and seven greatgrandchildren. Brother of the late Ruth
 DYSON-Charles H. Financier and philanthropist, died March 14, 1997, at the age of 87. Mr. Dyson lived in Millbrook, NY, and Barbados. At the time of his death, Charles H. Dyson was chairman emeritus of The Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation, a private company that he founded in 1954, which bec
 FARRELL - MacLennan. Noted editor died March 13 in CT at age 74. He was Fiction Editor of Collier's Magazine and the Saturday Evening Post, and copy editor of numerous other magazines. A long time resident of Weston, CT, he is survived by two daughters, Ruth and Mary, by a stepdaughter, Mer
 FELDMAN-Fred. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 FUCHS-Joseph, 97. On March 14, 1997. Renowned teacher of violin for over 50 years. Devoted husband of the late Doris Levy, cherished brother of the late Lillian Fuchs Stein, violist. Beloved father of Elinor Fuchs and grandfather of Katherine Eban and Claire Oakes Finkelstein. Visitation Mo
 GOLDSMITH-Eli D., Dr. On March 15 after a short illness. Dearly beloved and devoted husband of the late Gertrude A. Cherished father of Cathy Ellen. Loving brother of Dr. Jess and Harold. Caring uncle and cousin. Compassionate friend and colleague. Distinguished professor and research scien
 KAPNICK-Oscar. Died at age 84 on March 16, 1997. Beloved husband and dearest friend of Syd (Sylvia) Kapnick, devoted and loving father of Steven Kapnick, the late Jo Anne Kapnick and the late Susan Kapnick Bart. Devoted and loving father-in-law of Joan Kapnick and Jacob Bart. Adored and che
 MEROLLA-Robert. The staff of the New York Road Runners Club mourn the passing of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Bob Merolla, aka ''Papa Grunt.'' He was a key member of the organizing committee of the New York City Marathon for 18 years. His gentle ways and humor will be greatly missed.
 RUSSELL-Carl A., 76. Former Senior Vice President and Sales Manager MCA-TV died on March 4th. He spent 37 years in the television industry including 25 with MCA. Retired in December 1987. He served as Elder in the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. He is survived by his wife, Portia, and a g
 Robert Saudek, who gave the era of live television some of its most elevating and electrifying moments as the creator of the acclaimed ''Omnibus'' series of eclectic cultural programs, died on Thursday at a hospital in Baltimore. He was 85 and lived in Washington. Having served as a
 Syed Amjad Ali, an elder statesman of Pakistan and a staunch friend of the West who served as Ambassador to the United States and later as his country's representative at the United Nations, died on March 5 at his home in Lahore. He was 89. Born into a prominent family of industrial
 Cyril Francis Brickfield, former  executive director of the American Association of Retired Persons and once the No. 2 official at the Veterans Administration, died on Friday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 78 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was cancer, said the A.A.R.
 Joseph H. McConnell, a former president of the National Broadcasting Company and of the Reynolds Metals Company, died on Thursday in a retirement home in Atlanta. He was 90 and also had a home in Brevard, N.C. Mr. McConnell was president of NBC from 1949 until he resigned in Decembe
 ABRAMOV-Dr. S. Zalman. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death in Jerusalem of Dr. S. Zalman Abramov, Chairman of the Board of Overseers of o
 ARMSTRONG - Fred G. The American Geographical Society notes with regret the death on February 21, 1997 of its Councilor since 1974, Fred G. Armstrong. His good humor, good will, and insights will be missed. Richard H. Nolte, Chairman Emeritus John E. Gould, Chairman Donald J. Lloyd-Jones, P
 COVELL-Benjamin F. Beloved husband of the late Frances and the late Esther, devoted father of Jane Covell, Robert and Barbara Covell. Cherished grandfather of James, Joanne, Tzivia, Jennifer, Chrissy and William, adored greatgrandfather of Miranda, dear brother of Hannah Mindell, Jacob and 
 DORAN-Eamonn. The Board of Trustees, the Sisters of Charity, the staff and the entire New York Foundling Hospital family, mourn the loss of our beloved friend, Eamonn Doran. Eamonn's devotion to the Foundling began in 1980 with the first Eamonn Doran Golf Classic. Through Eamonn's untiring 
 DYSON-Charles H. It was a Spring morning, a quarter-century ago, when word first traveled down to the Village Green in Millbrook that a handful of young teenagers had moved into the little white house on the hill, formerly The Millbrook Manor. The word was ''Daytop'' and the currency was ''
 FUCHS-Joseph, 97. On March 14, 1997. Renowned teacher of violin for over fifty years. Devoted husband of the late Doris Levy, cherished brother of the late Lillian Fuchs Stein, violist. Beloved father of Elinor Fuchs and grandfather of Katherine Eban and Claire Oakes Finkelstein. Service Tu
 HERMANN-Stanford. On March 17, 1997. Beloved husband and life's traveling companion to Naomi Basel Almour Hermann. Loving father to Jay and Suzanne. Father-in-law of Carol and Alan. Devoted Grandpa to Matt, Luke and Ali. A man of great curiosity, knowledge and mordant wit. He will be greatl
 JORDAN-Alphonse, Dr. The Department of Medicine is saddened by the death of our long time colleague, Dr. Alphonse Jordan. An expert in cardiac catheterization, Dr. Jordan was a member of our faculty since 1956 and rose to the rank of Associate Professor of Medicine at Albert Einstein Colleg
 KAPNICK-Oscar. Died at age 84 March 16, 1997. Beloved husband and dearest friend of Syd (Sylvia) Kapnick, devoted and loving father of Steven Kapnick, the late Jo Anne Kapnick and the late Susan Kapnick Bart. Devoted and loving father-in-law of Joan Kapnick and Jacob Bart. Adored and cheris
 LANG-Paul, DDS. Wallack Managment Company and their employees mourn the untimely death of Dr. Paul Lang, father of Gail Lang Wainer, our director of management. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Charlotte, his daughter Gail, his son Richard, and all family members. LAN
 MOREL-Benjamin. Died March 16, 1997, 99 years old. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Z. Morel, loving brother of Clement Morel and Rachel Israel and the late Leah, Matilda, Daniel, William and David. Brother-in-law of Evelyn G. Morel. Uncle to many nieces and nephews. He will be mourned by
 PORTER-Robert C., age 85, died of heart failure on March 12. He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Elizabeth W. Porter, two children, and two grandchildren. He was raised in Philadelphia, spent most of his life in Summit and Chatham, NJ, and summered in South Harpswell, Maine. He graduate
 REID-John H. 88 on March 16. Survived by his wife Anne T. Reid, his children Norita Reid Carlson, Robert J. Reid and Patricia R. Winderman, three grandsons, and one granddaughter. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St. Tuesday 3-5 and 7-9. Services Wednesday 
 RUBENSTEIN-Philip, March 15, 1997. Husband of Sylvia (nee Gervis) of Philadelphia, PA (formerly of NYC). Father of Lynne Kaiser and Bobbi (Ken) Gray. Brother of Betty Gruber-Schneider. Grandfather of William (Marcy) Kaiser, Lauren (Paul) Kaiser-Albert, Paul (Kimberly) Kaiser, Garrett (Lisa)
 SAUDEK-Robert. The Musicians, Trustees and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Robert Saudek, who served as a valued member of the Board of Trustees since 1968. We celebrate his lifelong love of music and his wonderfully creative us
 TRAINOR-John J. of Pompano Beach, FL died on Saturday, March 15, 1997. He was a retired New York City Fireman having served as Battalion Chief of the 34th, 35th and 53rd Battalions during his career in the NYFD. He is survived by his wife, Ellen; two daughters, Jane Gomes of Boynton Beach, 
 WAGNER-Sherle, died on March 14th at the age of 79. Husband for 54 years of Rose (Lichtstein), father of Linda Geoffroy, Paul and Amy, father-in-law of Vincent Geoffroy and Melanie Wagner, grandfather of Rennie, Evan, Jeremy, Chloe, Marissa and Colin. He is also survived by his sister Sylvi
 Victor Vasarely, a leader of the short-lived Op Art movement of the 1960's, died at a private clinic in Paris on Saturday. He was 90. He had been hospitalized for the last two years with prostate cancer, said his daughter-in-law, Michele Vasarely. Although ultimately eclipse
 Arthur G. B. Metcalf, an aeronautical engineer, electronics industrialist and chairman emeritus of the Boston University board of trustees, died on Sunday of heart failure at Symmes Medical Center in Arlington, Mass., Kevin Carleton, a spokesman for the university, said yesterday. Mr. Metca
 Charles H. Dyson, a financier, entrepreneur and pioneer in the field of leveraged buyouts who was best known for his government service and his philanthropy, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. A lifelong Democrat who worked for President Franklin D. Roosevelt
 ABRAMOV-S. Zalman. The officers, members, and staff of the American Jewish Committee are deeply saddened by the death of Zalman Abramov, chairman of the Israel Advisory Board of AJC's Institute on American Jewish-Israeli Relations (IAJIR) from 1983 to 1994. In a distinguished career, Dr. Ab
 BERGER-Seymour. March 17, of Oradell, N.J. Beloved husband of Janice, loving father of Jonathan and Eric, dearest father in law of Elaine and Denise, cherished brother of Irving. A career musician whose list of professional credits is only exceeded by his modesty. A warm-hearted man, deeply
 DUBOIS-William, 93, died March 16 in Farmington, Connecticut. He was born November 29, 1903 in St. Augustine, Florida, son of the late Virginia Markel DuBois and William Henry Thompson DuBois. Mr. DuBois graduated from Columbia University in 1925 with a degree in Journalism. He joined the '
 DYSON-Charles H. The board of trustees and staff of the Metropolitan Opera Association mourn with profound sadness the loss of Charles H. Dyson, distinguished managing director of the board for more than a decade until his retirement in 1996. We recall with great affection his personal enjo
 FUCHS-Joseph. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of distinguished violinist Joseph Fuchs, whose lifetime spanned the entire history of the School from his enrollment as a student in 1906 to his appointment as a faculty member in 1946, which continued to the time of his death. Through h
 HOROWITZ-David. 82 years old, of Lake Worth, Florida. Husband of Edith, father of Richard, Marjorie Schultz, and Harold, and grandfather to six grandchildren. Will be missed by all for his friendship, wisdom, and humor, but most of all, for his love of family. Donations may be made to the L
 JORDAN-Alphonzo. Respected colleague, teacher & friend to us all. The entire staff of the Cardiac Cath Lab and the Division of Cardiology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Jack D. Weiler Hosptial of Montefiore Medical Center are saddened by his passing and will miss him dearly. We exten
 KENNEDY-Henry M. March 14, 1997. Of Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, N.J. Husband of the late Mary Bingham Kennedy. He graduated from Kent School in 1928 and Princeton University in 1932. He is survived by two sons Henry M. Jr of Ridgewood, N.J. and Bingham of McLean, Va. and 5 grandchildren. A pa
 MANN-David Hazzan. We record in sorrow the passing of the Hazzam Emeritus of Temple Gates of Zion in Valley Stream, NY for over four decades. Quietly and gently he served the spiritual needs of his congregants with great dignity, warmth and care. A dedicated hazzan, he became a member of th
 WAGNER-Sherle. The members of Yohalem Gillman & Company LLP mourn the passing of Sherle Wagner, a long-time client and respected friend. He was an innovative entrepreneur and an astute businessman whose social consciousness was admired by all. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the entir
 Ralph S. Abascal, a pioneering legal-services lawyer in California who won landmark decisions on behalf of farm workers, welfare recipients and undocumented immigrants, died on Monday at his home in Berkeley. He was 62 and had been suffering from cancer. Mr. Abascal, a rumpled, soft
 Thomas C. Fichandler, a founder of the Arena Stage in Washington and the theater's executive director until his retirement in 1986, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Zelda Fichandler. The Arena Stage, created in
 William DuBois, a playwright, novelist and longtime editor for The New York Times Book Review, died on Sunday at his home in Farmington, Conn. He was 93. Mr. DuBois had several plays produced on Broadway, wrote novels and mysteries and worked with the novelist Frank G. Slaughter on 
 Eamonn Doran, an Irish barman who turned a long-running run-in with American immigration authorities into a rollicking career as one of New York City's most popular and successful pub owners, died on Sunday in a hospital in Dublin. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan. His friends said 
 Jacques Foccart, who masterminded clandestine military coups in French-speaking Africa for Charles de Gaulle and three French presidents after him, died at his home this morning. He was 83. Mr. Foccart's secrecy and preference for operating in the shadows were legendary. He was trus
 BORG-Harold, on March 18, 1997. Husband of Dr. Anita Borg. Father of Laura, Terry, Meredith, Jessica and Brooke. Son of Sally Borg. Brother of Brenda and Estelle. Service Friday, 10AM at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels'', 55 North Station Plaza, (opposite LIRR) Great Neck. BORG-Har
 CONLIN-Rev. Leo E., C.S.P., on March 19, 1997, at age 81. A native of Worcester, MA., he was ordained a Paulist priest on May 11, 1946. Fr. Conlin served six years in campus ministry in TX. and MA., and 14 years in mission work in South Africa and New England. The better part of his lifetim
 DONAGHEY-Charles Dennis, 41. Died March 16 in an accident in Key West, FL. He was born June 26, 1955, to Charles and Mary Anne Donaghey in Oil City, PA. A graduate of the University of Houston, Texas, he was a resident of New York City where he was a Vice President Fixed Income Researcher a
 DYSON-Charles H. The marvelous example of the civic leadership of Charles H. Dyson is a living legacy for his family and the organizations with which he worked. As a member of the Center For Defense Information Board of Advisors for 23 years he gave us his wise counsel, great insight, and g
 GILBERT-Martin H. Martin H. Gilbert, 75, Ventura, California, died on Tuesday following a long illness. Mr. Gilbert was born NYC. Mr. Gilbert was a raconteur, a salesman's salesman, a life long student of history and enjoyed a good hot dog & a baseball game. Mr. Gilbert was in the garment i
 GOVE-Wayne D. Of Mount Kisco, N.Y. (Reader's Digest Promotion Director). Mr. Gove joined Reader's Digest in 1967. He rose to the rank of Promotion Director and was responsible for creating the famed digest style which helped turn the small magazine into a publishing giant. He is known throu
 HERMANN-Stanford L. March 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Naomi B. Father of Jay. Grandfather of Alexandra, Luke and Matthew. He will be greatly missed. Services Thursday, March 20 at 10:45 AM, at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.       
 KUNIN-Jacob, in Boca Raton, FL. March 17, predeceased by Kate, his wife of 72 years. Beloved father of Phyllis Ratner and Harriet Herskowitz, grandfather of 8, and great grandfather of 14. Mr. Kunin immigrated from Russia to Bridgeport, CT., in 1925, and founded Kays Department Stores. Serv
 NEUMAN-Bea. The Board of Governors and Membership of Ridgeway Country Club offer their deepest condolences to Irving Neuman and family upon the passing of his wife, Bea Neuman. Stanley Goldberg, President       
 OVERBERGER-Charles G. The Board of Trustees, President David C. Chang, Chancellor George Bugliarello and the entire Polytechnic University community mourn the passing of Charles G. Overberger, a distinguished professor and leader in the Chemistry Department. In the 1950s and 1960s, Professo
 TRIMBLE-George E., Sr., a retired Exxon & RJR Executive, age 76, of Wyalusing, PA., Millerton, New York and New York, New York, passed away March 12, 1997. George was born in Newark, NJ. Son of the late Elmer G. and Harriett Pulford Trimble. He graduated from the Pennsylvania State Universi
 Patrick R. Wallace, who for many years was the confidential assistant to successive city editors and metropolitan editors of The New York Times, died on Tuesday at home. Mr. Wallace, who was 79, had lived for several decades in the Inwood section of Manhattan but recently had been s
 Willem de Kooning, who came to New York City from his native Rotterdam and radically altered the shape of American art after World War II, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, L.I.. He was 92. A near-mythic figure in American art, Mr. de Kooning became the embodiment of its h
 Bill Bradley, who created the Broadway tradition of the Gypsy Robe, a long-running theatrical good luck symbol, died on Monday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 73 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was complications after a stroke, said his companion, Rudy Tronto.  
 Carlo Fassi, a prominent coach who guided four figure skaters, including Peggy Fleming and Dorothy Hamill, to Olympic gold medals, died today of a heart attack. He was 67. Mr. Fassi died at the 1997 world championships only hours before one of his skaters, Cornel Gheorghe of Romania
 Judge Charles R. Richey of the United States District Court in Washington, who was appointed to the bench because of his friendship with Vice President Spiro T. Agnew and quickly found himself ruling on Watergate-related cases, died on Wednesday night at the Washington Home hospice. He was 
 ATKINS-Michael B. The Officers, Board and Fellows extend our sincerest condolences to the family of our former Chapter President and National Vice President. Mike was a leader in the field of Family Law and was esteemed by all his colleagues. American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers (New Yor
 BIALICK-Richard A. Congregration Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the tragic and untimely death of our cherished member, Richard A. Bialick. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his pass
 BORG-Harold. A lawyer's lawyer whose loyalty to his clients and friends will never be forgotten. Sid Davidoff       
 de KOONING-Willem. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art join the art community in mourning the loss of Willem de Kooning. Above all, however, we wish to honor his life. A great painter, he used that life to the full and contributed immeasurably to the medium he personified for
 DYSON-Charles Henry. In grateful memory of Charles Henry Dyson, a man for all seasons and a staunch advocate and supporter of education. Entrepreneur par excellence, no investment in his illustrious career paid or will pay greater returns than the contributions to the education of the young
 GIBSON-Ronald (Rufus), died peacefully on Wednesday, March 18, 1997 after a short illness. He was affiliated with the New York office of the European Commission. He is survived by his niece, Rosemary and her three children and his sister-in-law, Madeline, all of whom reside in England. Fune
 KUNIN-Jacob, in Boca Raton, FL. March 17, predeceased by Kate, his wife of 72 years. Beloved father of Phyllis Ratner and Harriet Herskowitz, grandfather of 8, and great grandfather of 14. Mr. Kunin immigrated from Russia to Bridgeport, CT., in 1925, and founded Kays Department Stores. Serv
 La PORTE-Rev. George H., March 19, suddenly. Beloved husband of Marilyn, dear brother of Howard (Mary Lou), uncle of Jennifer. Adlerian psychotherapist, respected member of Adler Institute & Clinic; Unitarian minister w/graduate degrees from NYU and Union Theological Seminary. Funeral at Co
 NIEBERG-Edwin. When a friend was in need, he was a friend indeed. Our heartfelt condolences to his dear wife Dannie, his sons Harry, Stanley, Peter and the Nieberg family. Eileen and Harold Garlick The Garlick Family       
 PAUL-Minna G. March 19, 1997. Wife of the late Herbert Paul, lovingly remembered by brother Abner J. Golieb, his wife Nancy, niece Margaret G. Axelrod, her husband Jay, nephew John A. Golieb, his wife Marianne, 3 grandnieces, 1 grandnephew and a host of friends. Service Sunday, March 23, 11
 Tony Zale, who brawled his way to the middleweight championship twice during a Hall of Fame boxing career punctuated by three memorable -- if not legendary -- title bouts with Rocky Graziano, died yesterday at a nursing home in Portage, Ind. He was 83. Zale had been suffering from P
 DREW-Martin. The Board of Governors, Administration, his associates and the entire staff of The Parkway Hospital offer their deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Esther, his devoted children Diane and Steve Rukavina, Howard and Ina Drew, Michael and Zindy Drew and his dear grandchildren Jas
 ROGERS-Sydney. On March 21, 1997, born Jan. 13, 1907, London, England. Husband of 62 years to Beatrice, father of Teri Lehmann and Michael Rogers, grandfather to Bruce, David, Mark and Amy Lehmann and their spouses and Lisa and Jessica Rogers. Great grandfather to Dylan, Justin, Robert, Nic
 WOLFF-Godfrey, on March 20, 1997. Beloved husband of Ellen. Loving father of Peter (deceased), Tom and Bob, and devoted grandfather to Rebecca, Jordan, Jake, Julia, Emily and Danny. Founder and guiding spirit of Wolff Office Equipment. His warmth, humor, determination and joy in life will b
 Sherle Wagner, a designer whose company, Sherle Wagner International Inc., became synonymous with luxury bathroom fixtures, accessories and hardware, died of heart failure on March 14 in Palm Beach, Fla., his son-in-law, Vincent Geoffroy, said this week. Mr. Wagner was 79. The son o
 Tony Zale, who brawled his way to the middleweight championship twice during a Hall of Fame boxing career punctuated by three memorable -- if not legendary -- title bouts with Rocky Graziano, died Thursday at a nursing home in Portage, Ind. He was 83. Zale had been suffering from Pa
 V.S. Pritchett, the versatile and astoundingly prolific English writer who over a six-decade career became a master of fiction, nonfiction, biography and literary criticism, died on Thursday at Whittington Hospital here. He was 96. A man of letters in the tradition of Charles Lamb, 
 Albert Ernst Hemsing, a documentary film maker and former Foreign Service officer with the United States Information Agency, died on Tuesday at his home in Brewster, Mass. He was 76. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Hemsing worked for the Marshall P
 Morris Milton Schnitzer, a prominent New Jersey practitioner of civil law and one of a handful of legal experts who molded the state's modern court system in the late 1940's, died on March 8 at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston. He was 86 and lived in Montclair. Mr. Schnitzer, who
 DE KOONING - Willem. The Trustees and Staff of The Parrish Art Museum, Southampton, New York, join the international art community in mourning the loss of Willem de Kooning. His career spanned eight decades and saw the triumph of American painting in the world arena. His move to the eastern
 FIORENZA-Nicholas A. Retired Professor at St. Francis College. On March 2. Interred on March 4 at St. John's Cemetery. Survived by his family.       
 GITTLEMAN-Irwin. March 22, 1997. Adored husband of Anne, cherished father of Chester and Barbara, beloved grandfather of Ian, Rachel and Jennifer. Devoted brother of Mildred and Phyllis, and brother-in-law Sigmund. Loving father-in-law of Mark and Sheryl. Irwin had an inexhustible supply of
 GOLDEN-Sam, Lake Worth, FL. Mr. Sam Golden, 82, of Columbus, NY died unexpectedly at Wellington Community Regional Hospital, Wellington, FL on Tuesday, March 11, 1997. He was predeceased by his wife of 51 years Adele, and is survived by four children: Tom Golden of Tenafly, NJ; Mark Golden 
 KEY-Albert L., of Locust Valley, LI on March 21, 1997, age 71 of cancer. Beloved husband of Julia Bowdoin, father of David, Robert and Albert. Brother of David M. and Marjorie K. Andrews. Grandfather of seven. Albert was well loved by all and was admired for his wit and humor, his prowess o
 KOLB-Alexander. Died March 19, 1997. Survived by loving wife of 45 years, Anita, daughters Carole and Elaine, and grandsons Frank and Michael Koshel, sisters Shirley Rubin, Selma Solomon and Miriam Leiner. We miss him very much.       
 LEVINE-Jacob P. In his 89th year. Beloved husband of Selma. Loving father of Randi Spiegel and father-in-law of Dr. Murray Spiegel. Services Monday, March 24, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. For service time, please call 212-362-6600.       
 MANN-David J. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Temple Gates of Zion mourn the passing of our devoted and beloved Cantor Emeritus. He served our congregation with distinction for over 39 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Frances, son Zachary, daughter Thelma and husba
 NEWMAN-Arthur Andrew, 92, June 14, 1904-March 12, 1997. Died peacefully at home in New Mexico. Preceded by his wife of sixty-two years, Judith and son Lionel. Loved by his daughter Corinne and Stanley Shaftel, granddaughters Lynda and Martin Rothstein, Lisa Shaftel, Amy and Brian Trubee, gr
 PAUL-Minna G. March 19, 1997. Wife of the late Herbert Paul, lovingly remembered by brother Abner J. Golieb, his wife Nancy, niece Margaret G. Axelrod, her husband Jay, nephew John A. Golieb, his wife Marianne, 3 grandnieces, 1 grandnephew and a host of friends. Service Sunday, Marc
 POLOWCZYK-Carl J. On March 17. Bronx Community College mourns the death of its Dean of Academic Affairs. His leadership and devotion to faculty and students will always be remembered. BCC is establishing a Carl J. Polowczyk Scholorship Fund.       
 POTTER-Hamilton Fish, Jr., of NYC and St. James, LI, suddenly in Sun Valley, ID, on March 21, 1997, age 68. Beloved husband of Maureen Cotter Potter and loving father of Nicholas Fish and Warwick Alonso Potter; also Virginia Patterson, Hamilton Fish III, Robert Burnside, and Elizabeth Stuyv
 SHENLOOGIAN-John, M.D. The Central Brooklyn Medical Group, P.C. is saddened by the accidental death of John Shenloogian, M.D. John had varied responsibilities which he fulfilled with warmth and style. He leaves a large void. Alexander Ellman, M.D. Medical Director Central Bklyn Medical Grou
 SKLOVER-Muriel. Temple Israel of Long Beach and its Sisterhood extend sincerest condolences to our Co-President Bruce Sklover on the sudden passing of his beloved mother. She will be remembered as a woman of warmth, kindness and indomitable spirit. To Bruce; his wife, Tamar, Co-Administrato
 SPOTKOV-Bernard. March 17, 1997. Beloved husband, Daddy, granpa and friend. We will miss him very much.       
 STERNBERG-Lawrence J. 63, died on March 21, after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. A loving husband, father, brother, and friend. He is surived by his wife of 36 years, Harriet (Kline), his children, Jeffrey and Sara, daughter-in-law Stephanie and sister Marianne Minkoff. A dentist
 LANDAU-Sidney. Dearest Daddy, I close my eyes and still feel your hugs and loving ways. Our son, Joshua is truly a blessing. He has your zest for life. Rest in Peace. Your Loving Daughter, Beth L. Benjamin       
 MASLANSKY-Michael. Beloved son, brother, husband, father, uncle and friend. Michael, we miss you. ''For he who lives more lives than one more deaths than one must die.''       
 Samm Sinclair Baker, whose 30-odd self-improvement books counseled readers on how to help themselves to anything from svelte figures to good sex to making money by writing books, died on March 5 at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Mamaroneck. He had suffe
 The Rev. W. Awdry, author of the internationally known ''Thomas the Tank Engine'' series of children's books, died on Friday at his home in Stroud, Gloucestershire, England. He was 85 and had been bedridden for some time. Wilbert Vere Awdry, an Anglican minister, wrote the first sto
 Allan H. Kalmus, a longtime public relations consultant in New York City, died on March 12 at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kalmus, a native of New York, attended the Fieldston School and was a graduate of Harvard University. He also
 Cyril F. Hetsko, a lawyer and executive who was instrumental in transforming the American Tobacco Company into American Brands Inc., died of complications of pneumonia on March 1 in Ridgewood, N.J., Mary Horne, an American Brands spokeswoman, said. He was 85. Mr. Hetsko was a partne
 Frank Shomo, the last known survivor of the Johnstown Flood in Pennsylvania, one of the worst peacetime disasters in American history, died on Thursday at Blattenberger's Personal Care Home in Black Lick, Pa. He was 108 and a longtime resident of Robinson, Pa. Mr. Shomo was an infan
 Harold H. Melnick, an expert in retirement benefits who was president of the Sergeants Benevolent Association in the New York City Police Department for more than 20 years, died on March 16 at Hospice on the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 75 and had recently moved to Florida from Forest Hil
 Jeffrey C. Ingber, a lawyer who  represented many leading pop music artists, died on Wednesday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Kenneth. Mr. Ingber, who specialized in entertainment law, had a client list that included
 Nelson Frederick Sievering Jr., the United States representative at the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna from 1993 until recently, died on March 6 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Sievering, who resigned from the 
 GITTLEMAN-Irwin. March 22, 1997. Adored husband of Anne, cherished father of Chester and Barbara, beloved grandfather of Ian, Rachel and Jennifer. Devoted brother of Mildred and Phyllis, and brother-in-law Sigmund. Loving father-in-law of Mark and Sheryl. Irwin had an inexhustible supply of
 KEY-Albert L., of Locust Valley, LI on March 21, 1997, age 71 of cancer. Beloved husband of Julia Bowdoin, father of David, Robert and Albert. Brother of David M. and Marjorie K. Andrews. Grandfather of seven. Albert was well loved by all and was admired for his wit and humor, his prowess o
 KLIGERMAN-Alan. Age 70, on March 22. Beloved husband of Miralyn. Devoted and adored father to Andrew, Cheryl and daughter-in-law June. Loving grandfather of Matthew. Dear friend to brother Howard and sister-in-law Carole. Cherished by his countless friends and loved by every person who was 
 MOORE-Msgr. Robert Edward. Saturday, March 22. Brother of the late Marion Beattie, Frances Callan and Dr. Samuel B. Moore, Jr. He is survived by seven nieces and nephews, and 15 great-nieces and nephews. Wake and Mass, Monday at 7:30 PM, at St. Teresa of Avila, North Tarrytown. Mass of Chri
 POLICASTRO-Anthony G. Age 85, 45 year resident of Flushing, Queens, died Friday in Fountain Valley, CA, of cancer. Beloved husband, affectionate father and dedicated school teacher will be remembered for his devotion to family as well as a giving manner to all. His career included teaching 
 POTTER-Hamilton Fish, Jr., of NYC and St. James, LI, suddenly in Sun Valley, ID, on March 21, 1997, age 68. Beloved husband of Maureen Cotter Potter and loving father of Nicholas Fish and Warwick Alonso Potter; also Virginia Patterson, Hamilton Fish III, Robert Burnside, and Elizabeth Stuyv
 ROBINSON-Joseph R. Age 85, of Margate, FL. Mr. Robinson died Saturday evening at his home in Florida. For many years, a Superintendent of Electricians at Arc Electric of NYC. He is survived by his wife Ettie, his brother Harold, his daughter Iris Leopold, and her husband Robert, his son Gar
 SOTH-William H. Of Coral Springs, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Passed away March 22. Survived by his wife of 60 years, Eleanore, two daughters, Suellen Brown and Cynthia Devroedt, four grandchildren, three great-grandchildren and one sister, Doris Leddy. For information, contact Forest La
 Dr. Ramon L. Santiago, a professor of secondary, adult and business education at Lehman College, and an authority on bilingual studies and English as a second language programs, died on March 12 at Albert Einstein Hospital in the Bronx. He was 57 and lived in the borough's Bedford Park neig
 Albert Lenoir Key, a stockbroker and former investment banker who, as a trustee, president and chairman, helped steer the New-York Historical Society through its heaviest turbulence in the 1980's, died on Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 71 and lived in Locust Vall
 Dr. Graham Hawks, an obstetrician and gynecologist at Cornell University Medical College for many years, died on Feb. 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, family members said. From 1953 until retiring in 1984, he held a variety of positions at C
 Morris Schaeffer, a microbiologist and virologist who helped New York City rein in potentially hazardous medical laboratories in the 1960's and left his imprint on the national level as well, died on Jan. 4 at a hospital in Eugene, Ore. He was 89 and had moved to Eugene in 1988. He 
 CHAKO-Nicholas, died after a short illness on March 18 at age 86. Devoted husband and father, surviving are his wife of 46 years, Bernardine, and son Alexander and family. Born in Epirus, he came to the United States in 1929, earned a Ph.D. in mathematics from Johns Hopkins in 1934, and Dr.
 GOLDBERG-Lionel M. On March 23, 1997. A lifelong resident of Glen Cove, N.Y. Beloved husband of Joyce (Mayer). Devoted father of Jane Barclay and Nancy Kassop. Loving father-in-law of Stephen Barclay. Adored grandfather of Lisa and Laura Barclay, Erika and Allison Kassop. Services Wednesday
 HESLIN-James F., 54, died March 23, 1997 at his home in Hamilton, New Jesey. Born in New York City. Son of the late Edward J. Heslin Sr. and Rose Ann Mitchell-Heslin, brother of the late Edward J. Heslin Jr. He is survived by his wife Elaine M. Foden Heslin, two sons and a daughter-in-law, 
 HOFFBERG-Samuel. In his 90th year on March 22, 1997, Beloved husband of Rose. Devoted father of Eileen Hoffberg, Laura Rubin, and Father-in-law of Barry. Loving brother of Lillian Kaplowitz and Bertha Holzer. Cherished grandfather of Caroline and Jake. Services Tuesday, 11:45 A.M., at ''The
 KEY-Albert L. The trustees and staff of the New York Historical Society salute the civic example of this longtime colleague, who helped make our revival the reality it is today. His wit, perseverance and generosity during uncertain times are lessons which continue to guide us. Miner H. Wern
 KONING-Paul A.J., age 85 of Port Washington, L.I., on March 23, 1997. Beloved husband of Ursula. Loving father of Thomas, Peter, Andrew, Christopher and Paul. Devoted grandfather of nine grandchildren. Reposing at Austin F. Knowles, Inc. Funeral Home, 128 Main Street, Port Washington. A fun
 LOPEZ-MORILLAS-Juan, age 83, of Austin, TX, on March 21, 1997, after a brief illness. Professor Lopez-Morillas was Ashbel Smith Professor Emeritus of Spanish at the University of Texas and Kenan Professor Emeritus at Brown University in Providence, R.I., and had a long and distinguished aca
 OSROW-Harold. On March 20, 1997. Beloved husband of Laura. Devoted father of Richard & Marsha, Laurel, and Terry Osrow and Perry & Diane and Steven Sann. Cherished grandfather of Robyn and Douglas Osrow and Julia and Adam Sann. Dear friend of so many. He will be deeply missed. Funeral was h
 POTOKER-Edward Martin, Ph.D. Age 65. Of New York City and Southampton, N.Y. Died suddenly of a heart attack, Thursday, March 20, 1997. Dr. Potoker was born in Newark, N.J. and was educated at West Side High School. He was an alumnus of Dartmouth College, 1953, where he graduated Phi Beta Ka
 ROSENBAUM-Hazzan Samuel''Nafla Ateret Rosheinu...the crown of our head has fallen...'' The entire membership of the Cantors Assembly mourns the loss of its beloved Executive Vice President of more than four decades and the Cantor Emeritus of Temple Beth El of Rochester, New York. Since 1959
 TUNNICLIFF-Rob Gregory. March 5, 1954-March 19, 1997. Son of Mrs. Marvin (Sue) Hoyt. In loving memory. May he rest in peace. Memorial service Wed., Mar. 26, 8 PM, St. Ignatius Episcopal Church, 87 Street and W.E.A. Fred G. Nunes and USO Friends       
 Dr. Thomas W. Smith, chief of cardiovascular medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, died on Sunday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 60. The cause was mesothelioma, a cancer of a lining in the chest or abdomen, hospital officials said. Dr. Smith, who was also 
 ENGELHARDT-Jacob O. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Formerly of West Palm Beach FL and Southbury CT. On March 24, 1997, age 94. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice, beloved father of Helen, Daniel, Alice, cherished grandfather of Alan and Tamara, great grandfather of Aaron and Zoe, brotherin-law, uncle 
 ROSENBAUM-Hazzan Samuel. Combining inspiration and intellect, initiative and integrity, Sam ''Sang Unto The Lord'' with beauty and spoke to mortals with conviction and grace. Our Friend and Advisor, he leaves behind an adoring family and countless admirers. The Prayer Book Press Rabbi Jonat
 ROSENBAUM-Robert Lee ''Manhattan Fats''. Died March 23rd in Palm Springs, CA. He is survived by two sons, Richard and Jeffrey Rosenbaum and two daughters, Robin Potenza and Leah Rosenbaum. Private services were held in California.       
 SIRIS-Dr. Irwin. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Florence and his family. Murray B. Hirsch, President Howard Ecker, Secretary       
 Robert L. Richards, a longtime executive at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company who helped introduce cellophane to North America, died on March 8 at his home in Wilmington, Del. He was 98. Mr. Richards was affiliated with Du Pont for more than 50 years. Shortly after joining the comp
 Roberto Sanchez Vilella, the somber, efficient, bespectacled technocrat who in 1964 became Puerto Rico's second elected Governor and then shocked the Commonwealth with an unlikely love affair that left his marriage, party and political career a shambles, died yesterday at a hospital near hi
 Francis J. McGee, a retired police lieutenant who spent more than two decades teaching New York's Finest how to shoot better by firing faster, died on March 3 at the home of his son, David, in Kirkland Hills, Ohio. He was 75 and had lived in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx. His
 James Arthur Ryder, who built a $20 million fortune in truck leasing before losing it all trying to build another fortune, died on Tuesday at HealthSouth Doctors' Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla., after suffering a stroke. He was 83. The company he founded, Ryder  System Inc., now lea
 Joseph Frayman, an editor and reporter in the London bureau of The New York Times for nearly 40 years, died on March 1 at Chase Farm Hospital in London. He was 85. Mr. Frayman joined the Times London office in 1935 as an editor and stenographer, advanced to head the copy desk and in
 KANE-Irving. The Board of Delegates, Officers and Staff of the Council of Jewish Federations mourn the passing of Irving Kane. From 1959-62, he led CJF as its President and in the ensuing years he continued to play an influential role as a member of our Executive Committee. We shall miss hi
 SAGER-Edward J. March 25, 1997. A long employee of NY Library at Lincoln Center (Art & Theatre Department). Brother of Mary A. Sager, Emma O'Toole and the late Thomas J. Relatives and friends are invited to his viewing, Monday 9am, followed by funeral Mass 10am, Ascension of Our Lord Church
 SCHWEIZER-Jane. The Members and Staff of Herzfeld & Rubin, P.C. express their profound sympathy to our colleague, C. Thomas Schweizer, and to his entire family at the passing of his beloved wife, Jane and trust that they will take comfort in their memory of their many happy years with her. 
 SHAPIRO-Sidney O., of Greenwich Village, 83, died March 25, 1997. The family warmly welcomes all those who knew him to join them, at home on West 12th Street any time between 1-5 PM this Saturday, 29 March.       
 Richard F. Marsh, whose research in veterinary science at the University of Wisconsin at Madison led him to sound an alarm about the risks of mad cow disease a decade before the outbreak of the disease in Britain last year, died on Sunday at his home in Middleton, Wis. He was 58. Th
 U. Alexis Johnson, a career diplomat and one of the shepherds of the first strategic arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union, died on Monday in Raleigh, N.C., where he was living in retirement. He was 88. Mr. Johnson spent more than four decades in the Foreign Service. He retir
 Harold Osrow, an entrepreneur who couldn't leave well enough alone until he was satisfied he had made it better, cheaper or more convenient, died on March 20 at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. A resident of Dix Hills, L.I., he was 80 and had been chairman of Osrow Products, the company he f
 Irving Kane, a businessman who was prominent in charity organizations, died on Saturday at St. Mary's Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 89 and had homes in Palm Beach and Cleveland. Mr. Kane was born in Russia in a well-to-do family that fled to the United States in 1913, leaving 
 L. Royal Christensen, a microbiologist who pioneered important therapeutic techniques, including the now widespread use of the enzyme streptokinase to treat heart attacks, died on Saturday at his home in Madison, Conn. He was 82. He suffered a long illness, his family said. 
 BORG-Harold. Beloved friend and lawyer. Devoted to the betterment of all with whom he had contact. Bob and Mary Najdek       
 GOLDBERG-Lionel M. The Officers, Directors, and staff of the YMCA of Long Island regret the loss of our dear friend and past Chairman. The YMCA sends condolences to his family. Michael Famiglietti, President William Mausert, Chairman       
 LOPEZ-Chip. Playwright, sculptor, art director, songwriter, renaissance man. Lightning wit. Rare soul. Profoundly loved by his partner Merrill Sindler, his family-Avelina, Tina, Sylvia, Dolores, Marie, Richard and Carlos-and many friends. We celebrate his life and fondly recall his sartoria
 NEWMAN-Sanders D., March 20, 1997 of Newtown, PA and Martha's Vineyard, MA. Beloved husband of Joan Newman. Dearest father of seven children and grandfather of 5. Memorial service Saturday, March 29 at 2PM at the Joseph A. Fluehr Funeral Home, 800 Newtown-Richboro Road, Richboro, PA. Contri
 PUGH-Harry R. Jr. 85, formerly of Darien, Conn. died March 13, 1997. He was an attorney with Fish and Neave of NYC. He was a member of the Bar of the City of New York. He is survived by three daughters: Georgia Pugh Howard, Priscilla Pugh Kirkpatrick, and Louise Pugh Smith, and one brother,
 WEISS-Max. On March 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Gertrude, loving father of Sheldon, Michael, Carol and Lynn, cherished grandfather of Kimberly, Jeffrey, Kristen, Laura, Molly and Michael and great-grandfather of Cassidy, dear brother of Simon, Rose and Molly, father-in-law of Edward Andrew
 YOSELOFF-Martin, author, listed in Who's Who in America, of New York, NY on March 27, 1997. Brother of Thomas Yoseloff and Frances Spencer. Uncle of several nieces and nephews. Services Sunday 11:45 AM, Mt. Sinai Memorial Chapels, Cranbury Road at Evergreen Boulevard, East Brunswick. Burial
 W. Lain Guthrie, a commercial airline pilot who became a cause celebre after he was dismissed for refusing, for environmental and safety reasons, to dump waste jet fuel from his plane, died on Sunday at his home in Miami. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, the family said.    
 Carroll James Jr., a Washington  disk jockey whose promotion of the Beatles on his radio program helped make the group famous in the United States in the weeks before its first appearance on the ''Ed Sullivan Show'' in 1964, died on Monday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was
 Dr. David C. Miller, who attended Albert Schweitzer late in the philosopher's life and who was a noted epidemiologist and leader of famine-relief and other humanitarian projects, died on Thursday at his home in Lavonia, Ga. He was 80. The cause was lymphoma, a family member said.   
 Lane Dwinell, a two-term Republican Governor of New Hampshire in the 1950's and later a member of the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations, died on Thursday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 90. The cause was heart failure, a relative said. Mr. Dwinell, Governor from 1955 
 CAVANAGH-Joseph C., of Bay Shore, Long Island, on March 28, 1997. Survived by his wife Ruth (nee Baldwin) daughter, Ann Habbick of Montreal, son, Robert of Bayshore, son-in-law Ronald Habbick and sister, Estelle LeFrois of Webster, New York. Reposing at The Fredrick J. Chapey & Sons West Is
 EISENSTEIN-Myron, 92, at home Friday, March 28, 1997. Partner, Bronxland Management Co., founding member Manhattan Recontructionist Havurah and West End Synagogue. Remembered with love by Ruth, his wife of 63 years; children and their spouses, Paula Eisenstein Baker and Stephen D. Baker, He
 GREENBERG - Donald, March 27th, 1997. A wonderful man, a wonderful friend. Beloved husband of Roslyn, father of Susan Lebow and Debbie Schneeman, brother of Jack L. Green, grandfather of Jaime, Allison, and Kasey. Services at The Riverside, 76th and Amsterdam, Sunday, March 30th, 11:15 AM. 
 KAPLAN-Arthur. We mourn the loss of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Evelyn Maltman, President       
 KAYE-Leonard W. Age 73. On March 28, 1997 at his home in Palm City, FL., following a serious illness. A native of New York, he lived in Hartsdale, N.Y. before moving to Palm City eight years ago. He was pre-deceased by his wife Beatrice Kaye. He is survived by his children Michael, Susan, A
 LANDER-Herman A., 92, Sarasota, FL., died March 10, 1997. Mr. Lander came to Sarasota 27 years ago from Brooklyn, NY. A Foreign Trade Consultant, he was vice president of the Kane Import Corp. in New York. A former president of the Harvest Lodge, B'nai B'rith in New York, Mr. Lander was a m
 LORINCZI-George G. In memory of our esteemed partner and colleague whose courage and brilliance was an inspiration to so many. His leadership in international law and his commitment to the development of Eastern Europe made him a central figure in the privatization of state enterprises in H
 MEHLMAN-Maurice, 92 years. Died March 28, 1997. Devoted husband to his late wife Rose. Father of Edith and Irwin Leshaw and Joseph and Ruth Mehlman. Proud grandfather of Jerome, Susan, Richard, Caroline, Benjamin and Alice. Great grandfather of Daniel, Donald, Kerri, Brian, David, Andrew, S
 SLOVIN-Arnie. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Arnie Slovin, beloved mother of our friend and colleague, Bruce Slovin and esteemed member of the Board of Trustees. To Bruce, the entire Slovin family and all of his mother's loved ones, we 
 WEINREICH-Avron, M.D., on March 27, after a long illness and valiant fight, at his home in Pacific Palisades, California. We shall miss his indomitable energy, insatiable curiosity and mischevious wit. Our love and sympathy are with Andrew and Brian. Rosita, Beth, Ted and Henry       
 Paul Denis, a former editor of Billboard and an early writer on television, died on Wednesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 86 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Denis worked for Billboard from 1931 to 1943, first as an associate editor, then as managing editor, be
 Count Maurice Coreth, an exuberant sportsman and swashbuckling adventurer whose love of big-game hunting led him to organize an acclaimed campaign to save the African rhinoceros from extinction, died in England on Feb. 11. He was 67 and the founder of Rhino Rescue, an organization credited 
 ALTMAN-Sol. Great Neck Synagogue mourns the passing of our member and friend. We extend our condolences to his bereaved wife, devoted children and loving grandchildren. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus David Werber, President ALTMAN-Sol. We mourn the passing of 
 CONNELLY-John E. Jr. Died March 29, in Elizabethtown, NY, at 93. A graduate of Middlebury College and Harvard Law School, he was a founding partner of the law firm of Olwine, Connelly, Chase, O'Donnell & Weyher in NYC. He is survived by his wife, Evelyn R. Connelly, of Westport, NY; his bro
 GREENBERG - Donald, March 27th, 1997. A wonderful man, a wonderful friend. Beloved husband of Roslyn, father of Susan Lebow and Debbie Schneeman, brother of Jack L. Green, grandfather of Jaime, Allison, and Kasey. Services at The Riverside, 76th and Amsterdam, Sunday, March 30th, 11:15 AM. 
 HOGG-James F., Dr., Professor Emeritus in Biochemistry, former department head of chemistry, Queens College, Former Executive Officer of Biochemistry, C.U. N.Y., died suddenly at age 78 on March 25 in Palm Springs, CA. He is survived by his wife Lucy, children Susan Hogg and Nancy and David
 LORINCZI-George G. In memory of our esteemed partner and colleague whose courage and brilliance was an inspiration to so many. His leadership in international law and his commitment to the development of Eastern Europe made him a central figure in the privatization of state enterprises in H
 POLLOCK-Eugene N. Age 82, on March 24, 1997, in Palm Beach. Loving husband of Maria. Fabulous father of Michael (Pound Ridge, NY) and Kenneth (NYC). Doting grandfather of Daniel and Jennifer. Also survived by brother Robert (North Miami, FL). Gene was a successful insurance broker, avid spo
 SHONBRUN-Arthur. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Antkies Shonbrun. Survived by his loving wife Ruth Haber Shonbrun, his adoring children Lynn Stand, William Shonbrun and their spouses Lee Stand and Suzanne Shonbrun, stepdaughters Margie Haber, Lois Segel and Joan Kilberg, grandfather of Zo
 SZULC-Leon. Park East Synagogue Men's Club offer their deepest sympathies to their Board Member Massimiliano Szulc on the loss of his beloved father. May his soul be for a blessing. Allan Goldberg, President Herman Hochberg, Chairman       
 WEINREICH-Avron, M.D., on March 27, after a long illness and valiant fight, at his home in Pacific Palisades, California. We shall miss his indomitable energy, insatiable curiosity and mischevious wit. Our love and sympathy are with Andrew and Brian. Rosita, Beth, Ted and Henry       
 ZASSO-Kevin P. There were so many who shared in our sadness that whatever you did to console our hearts, we thank you so much for whatever the part. His Family       
 Andrew J. Valuchek, a former publisher of foreign-language papers in New York who served for many years as a Democratic Party liaison to ethnic groups and foreign visitors to Washington, died on March 16 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 85 and lived in Potomac, Md. Mr. V
 Charles Faulding, a Brooklyn trolley operator who was among the first blacks to rise to leadership in the transit union, died on March 9 at Parkway Hospital in Queens. He was 81 and lived in St. Albans. He had a brief illness, according to the Transport Workers Union of America.    
 Dr. John Gray Peatman, a statistician who studied audience reaction to early radio broadcasts and was a professor of psychology at City College for several decades, died on March 9 at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 92. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Dr. Mary Peatman of 
 Franklin Cary Salisbury, a lawyer and entrepreneur who promoted scientific advances in cancer research and rocketry, died on March 12 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 86 and lived in Potomac, Md. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Salisbury was be
 Fred Spielman, a songwriter who worked in Tin Pan Alley and Hollywood, died on March 21 at his home in New York City. He was 90. Mr. Spielman, who was born in Vienna, entered the Music Academy of Vienna at 12 and received a master's degree in piano and composition. He emigrated to t
 Hamilton Fish Potter Jr., a lawyer who specialized in banking, died March 21 in Sun Valley, Idaho. Mr. Potter, a resident of New York City, was 68. He died after a heart attack during a skiing vacation, said a spokesman for Sullivan & Cromwell, the New York law firm from which Mr. P
 Martin Atlas, a retired tax lawyer, real estate executive and former president of the Cafritz Foundation, a leading benefactor of the arts, education and social programs in Washington, died on Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause was lymphoma, his family said.    
 Otto John, a high West German official who was at the center of a mysterious cold war episode, died on Wednesday in a sanitarium in Innsbruck, Austria. He was 88 and lived at Igls outside Innsbruck. As a member of the German resistance to the Nazis, Mr. John also played a minor role
 BALLAD-Richard, 72. Former editor and writer for the Today show, died March 28. He is survived by his wife Pat and daughter Amy.       
 CONNELLY-John E. Jr. Died March 29, in Elizabethtown, NY, at 93. A graduate of Middlebury College and Harvard Law School, he was a founding partner of the law firm of Olwine, Connelly, Chase, O'Donnell & Weyher in NYC. He is survived by his wife, Evelyn R. Connelly, of Westport, NY; his bro
 FATER-Joseph J. On March 23, 1997, after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Theresa. Loving father of daughter Patricia and son-in-law James. Cherished grandfather of Dana. He was a graduate of Dartmouth College, Retired Col. Marine Corp., Managing Director for 35 years of the Buil
 FIALKOW-Milton. Of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Muriel. Loving father of Howard and Donald. Devoted brother to David. A warm, kind man, deeply loved and respected by all who knew him. Our lives can never be the same without him. He will be greatly missed.       
 GOLDSTEIN-Reuben P., 94. March 29, 1997. Remembered with great love by his children Judie and Howard Ganek; his grandchildren Tori, Danielle and David Ganek; and his great-grandchildren Harrison and Nicholas Ganek. Our lives are greatly enriched by the standards and love with which he lived
 GREENBERG-Donald. Sir Donald, to a man whose time was yours, who understood and performed in his inimitable easy going indomitable manner. A jewel in the business jungle, a man unique in his modesty, his self depreciation and sincere caring for the problems of others. We loved you, we will 
 LORINCZI-George G. In memory of our esteemed partner and colleague whose courage and brilliance was an inspiration to so many. His leadership in international law and his commitment to the development of Eastern Europe made him a central figure in the privatization of state enterprises in H
 POTTER-Hamilton Fish, Jr. The Chapin School is deeply saddened by the death of our former Board member, Hamilton Fish Potter, Jr., who served on the Board of Trustees from 1975-1981 with dedication and distinction. His wise counsel and loyalty to the school will be sorely missed. Our deepes
 RISKIN-Harry. Lincoln Square Synagogue records with deep sorrow the passing of its former member, Mr. Harry Riskin, beloved father of our founding Rabbi, Shlomo Riskin, and of Judi Stern and of Myra Abraham. He will be remembered for his love of life, of people, of the land of Israel and es
 SUEKOFF-David ''Dave.'' Age 48, of Florence, SC, died suddenly Friday, March 28, 1997, at his residence. He was a reporter for WNBC-TV in New York, and a reporter and anchor person for WXYZ Television in Detroit, MI. Survivors include his wife Tracey Perry Suekoff, of Florence; daughters Ka
 Richard Arthur Kimball, an architect and former director of the American Academy in Rome, died on March 20 at his home in Salisbury, Conn. He was 97. Mr. Kimball designed a number of private homes in Long Island, Westchester County and Fairfield County in Connecticut, as well as in 
 Tim Johnson, a concert promoter, producer and former owner of the Ballroom, a popular New York cabaret, died on March 14 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, Jimmy Roberts, a friend, said. In the 1950's, Mr. Johnso
 Wilbur Richard Knorr, a professor at Stanford University who studied the birth of mathematics in antiquity, died on March 18 at the Palo Alto Nursing Center. A resident of Palo Alto, Calif., he was 51. The cause was melanoma, a skin cancer, the university said. Dr. Knorr, a 
