 Charles Bronson, a muscular coal miner from Pennsylvania who became an international film star and archetypal American tough guy, died Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was pneumonia, said his publicist, Lori Jonas.
 David B. Truman, a dynamic, popular dean and provost whose swift rise through the administrative ranks at Columbia University ended in a bitter swirl of recriminations after the student uprising of 1968, died on Thursday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90. Widely expected to su
 Amram Ducovny, who realized his dream of becoming a novelist at age 73, died on Aug. 23 in Paris, the city he had moved to so he could concentrate on writing in his retirement. He was 75. The cause was heart disease, said Mr. Ducovny's literary agent, Andrew Blauner. Mr. Duc
 Bishop Donal Lamont, a Roman Catholic missionary who fought efforts to create an apartheid state in the former British colony of Southern Rhodesia -- now Zimbabwe -- after it declared its independence from Britain in 1965, died on Aug. 14 in Dublin. He was 92. Bishop Lamont was appo
 Charles Bronson, a muscular coal miner from Pennsylvania who became an international film star and archetypal American tough guy, died Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was pneumonia, said his publicist, Lori Jonas.
 Claude Passeau, an All-Star right-hander who pitched a one-hitter in the 1945 World Series for the Chicago Cubs' last pennant-winning team, died Saturday in Lucedale, Miss. He was 94. Pitching for 13 seasons in the National League, with the Pittsburgh Pirates, the Philadelphia Phill
 John Lansdale Jr., the head of security for the Manhattan Project who helped lead American forces to Germany's atomic bomb project before Soviet forces could reach it, died on Aug. 22 at his home near Annapolis, Md. He was 91. In April 1945, as Allied and Soviet troops were pushing 
 Robert H. Abplanalp, a friend and confidant of President Richard M. Nixon and an inventor who turned a better aerosol valve into an international business and a personal fortune, died on Saturday at his house in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his son-in-law, Grego
 Franklin L. Ford, who as dean of Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences confronted student protesters in the 1960's, died on Sunday in Lexington, Mass. He was 82. He had been in ill health after a stroke, Harvard announced. Dr. Ford became an assistant professor of history a
 Robert Koch, a decorative arts expert who helped make the name Tiffany one that every flea market browser wants to hear, died on Aug. 13 in Stamford, Conn. He was 85 and lived in Stamford. In 1958 Mr. Koch, freshly awarded a doctorate in art history from Yale, was curator for an exh
 Donald H. Davidson, a philosopher whose complex but penetrating insights into topics like linguistic analysis and the nature of truth influenced a generation of thinkers, died on Aug. 31 in Berkeley, Calif. He was 86. Dr. Davidson made his mark with a battery of landmark essays over
 Raymond Walters Jr., a retired editor for The New York Times Book Review who established and wrote the Paperback Talk column, died on Aug. 30 in Columbus, Ohio, where he moved in 2001. He was 91 and a longtime resident of Manhattan. The column appeared weekly in the 1970's and early
 Sidney J. Silberman, formerly head of the New York law firm of Kaye Scholer and a prominent philanthropist in Jewish community organizations, died on Friday at his home in White Plains. He was 81. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Judy Aqua. From 197
 Dr. Werner Goldsmith, an authority on the mechanics of collisions who went on to become a leader in the study of head injuries, died on Aug. 23 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 79. A professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Dr. Goldsmith published hi
 Alan Dugan, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet whose ironic and unsentimental verse pondered the challenge of finding freedom and purpose in moments of ordinary life, died on Wednesday in Hyannis, Mass. He was 80, and lived in Truro, Mass. The cause was pneumonia, which followed many hea
 Gen. Raymond G. Davis, who received the Medal of Honor for leading a storied rescue of fellow marines besieged by Chinese troops at the Chosin Reservoir during the Korean War, died on Wednesday in Conyers, Ga., outside Atlanta. He was 88 and lived in the nearby town of Stockbridge. 
 Horace W. Babcock, an innovative astronomer who helped establish the Las Campanas Observatory in northern Chile and developed technology to improve the telescope, died on Aug. 29 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 90. In the early 1960's, while director of the Mount Wilson and Mount Pa
 H. Erich Heinemann, an economist and financial writer who moved between careers for nearly 40 years, died in an automobile accident on Thursday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 71 and lived in Great Neck. A cause of death has not been announced, pending a coroner's report, but Mr. Heinema
 Moe Biller, a union scrapper who battled postmasters and presidents to lead postal workers out of poverty with illegal strikes, protests and six decades of hard-nosed bargaining that made him America's best-known postal union leader, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.      
 Tibor Varga, a violinist, conductor and teacher who was famous in Europe for his interpretations of modern classical compositions, died on Thursday at his home in Grimisuat, Switzerland. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Angelika Varga-Behrer. As a musi
 William Roy, a pianist, songwriter, singer, musical director and actor, died on Tuesday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75. The cause was respiratory failure after a series of small strokes, said his companion, Wayne Hosford. During the last two decades Mr. Roy was best know
 Msgr. Robert P. Hupp, who led Boys Town, the Nebraska home for needy and troubled boys, through far-reaching changes including the admission of girls, died on Aug. 29 in Mausten, Wis. He was 88. The girls came in 1979, but Boys Town did not become Girls and Boys Town until 2000. But
 Benjamin Merrill Holt Jr., an early designer of geothermal power plants, died on Aug. 22 at his home in South Pasadena, Calif. He was 89. In 1961, Mr. Holt, who was known as Ben, started the Ben Holt Company, an engineering concern that designed oil refineries in California. The com
 Dr. Robert F. Kallman, a Stanford University scientist who did early research on the effects of radiation on cancer cells, helping to establish the practice as a standard treatment, died on Aug. 8 at Stanford Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 81. The cause was lung disease, said 
 Sanford Solender, who held several top jobs in Jewish philanthropies and served on urban-policy advisory boards in New York City, died on Aug. 30 in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89 and lived in Sarasota. For five decades, Mr. Solender, a social worker by profession, was active in Jewish co
 Sir Terry Frost, an eminent British abstract painter, died last Monday at St. Julia's Hospice near his home in Newlyn, Cornwall. He was 87. For more than five decades, Sir Terry remained dedicated to abstraction, painting in a style that combined Cubist order, Matissean sensuousness
 Dr. Jose Barchilon, a psychoanalyst and educator who studied the unconscious roots of creativity and mental illness, died on Aug. 6 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 90. In addition to training and teaching in New York and Denver, Dr. Barchilon wrote extensively, including ea
 Dr. James Rachels, a philosopher and medical ethicist who wrote some of the most influential works on euthanasia, arguing that the legal distinction between killing and passively allowing a patient's death had no rational basis, died on Friday at a hospital in Birmingham, Ala. He was 62.   
 Warren Zevon, a singer and songwriter who came up with hard-boiled stories and tender confessions of love, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 56. The cause was lung cancer, which was diagnosed last summer. Mr. Zevon had a pulp-fiction imagination that yielded 
 Charles E. Bennett, a Florida Democrat who was a champion of ethical reforms in Congress and who sponsored the legislation that put ''In God We Trust'' on currency, died on Sept. 6 in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Bennett spent 44 years in the House of Representatives, more than
 Edward Teller, who was present at the creation of the first nuclear weapons and who grew even more famous for defending them, died yesterday at his home on the Stanford University campus in Palo Alto, Calif., according to the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which Dr. Teller once hea
 Edward Teller, who was present at the creation of the first nuclear weapons and who grew even more famous for defending them, died yesterday at his home on the Stanford University campus in Palo Alto, Calif., according to the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which Dr. Teller once hea
 James J. Crisona, a Democrat who served successively in New York State's Assembly and Senate, as borough president of Queens and as a justice of the New York State Supreme Court, died on Thursday at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He was 96 and lived in Manhattan. 
 Few, if any, physicists of this century have generated such heated debate as Edward Teller. Much of it centered on his decade-long effort to produce the hydrogen bomb, his ardent promotion of nuclear weapons in general, his deep suspicion of Soviet intentions and his opposition to curtailme
 Warren Kremer, a cartoonist whose lush, rounded brush style defined the appearance of comic-book characters from Richie Rich to Casper the Friendly Ghost, died on July 24 in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Bloomfield, N.J. Along with Alfred Harvey, the publisher of Harvey Co
 C. H. Sisson, a respected though not widely known British poet, translator and critic, who carefully avoided living the literary life, died on Friday at his home in the village of Langport in southwest England. He was 89. A professional civil servant, Mr. Sisson spent his life worki
 Edward Teller, a towering figure of science who had a singular impact on the development of the nuclear age, died late Tuesday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 95. Widely seen as a troubled genius, Dr. Teller generated hot debate for more than a half century, even as he engend
 Milton R. Konvitz, an influential constitutional scholar who prepared pioneering civil rights cases with Thurgood Marshall, inspired Ruth Bader Ginsburg when she was a student and helped write a constitution for Liberia, died on Friday in Monmouth, N.J. He was 95 and lived in Oakhurst, N.J.
 John Ritter, who played the lovably goofy closet heterosexual Jack Tripper in the television comedy series ''Three's Company,'' a smash hit in the 1970's, died on Thursday night in Burbank, Calif. He was 54. Mr. Ritter became ill on the set of ''8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage 
 Johnny Cash, whose gravelly bass-baritone was the vocal bedrock of American country music for more than four decades, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 71 and lived nearby in Hendersonville, Tenn. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Lou Robin, Mr. Cash's manager.        
 Robert B. Sims, retired executive vice president of the National Geographic Society and president of its magazine group, died on Wednesday in Jackson, Tenn. He was 68 and lived in the nearby town of Alamo. The cause was cancer, National Geographic said. Mr. Sims retired in 2
 Frank L. O'Bannon, a folksy Democrat serving his second term as governor of Indiana, died yesterday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 73. The cause was a stroke, which he had suffered last week in a hotel room in Chicago, where he had been attending a conference o
 J. R. Humphreys, an author of fiction and nonfiction who founded a writers' program at Columbia University's School of General Studies, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 85. A native of Mancelona, Mich., Mr. Humphreys returned there and wrote a descriptive nonfict
 Yukio Okutsu, who was awarded the Medal of Honor 55 years after single-handedly wiping out three German machine-gun positions in the battle for an Italian hill during World War II, died Aug. 24 in Hilo, Hawaii. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his family said. On April 7, 19
 Frank L. O'Bannon, a folksy Democrat serving his second term as governor of Indiana, died on Saturday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 73. The cause was a stroke, which he suffered last week in a hotel room in Chicago, where he had been attending a conference on 
 Jules Engel, an innovative animator and educator best known for choreographing dance sequences in the 1940 Disney animated feature ''Fantasia,'' died on Sept. 6 in Simi Valley, Calif. He was 94 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mr. Engel, who was adept in the high-art and mass-cult
 Byron V. Pepitone, who headed the Selective Service System during the final years of the Vietnam War and the transition to an all-volunteer military, died on Thursday in Port St. Lucie, in southern Florida, where he lived. He was 85. Mr. Pepitone, a retired Air Force colonel, direct
 Howard D. Graves, a retired lieutenant general in the Army, a former superintendent of the United States Military Academy at West Point and the chancellor of the Texas A&M University System until two weeks ago, died on Saturday at his home in College Station, Tex. He was 64. The cau
 Abraham Fischler, a diamond trader who returned to Antwerp, Belgium, after World war II to make the city a diamond center once again, died there on Sept. 9. He was 78. The cause was a stroke, said Marcelle Fischler, his daughter-in-law. Mr. Fischler, who owned a major diamon
 Garner Ted Armstrong, a silver-haired television evangelist known for his easy charm and dark message, died on Monday in Tyler, Tex. He was 73. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his son Mark said. Mr. Armstrong was the son of the evangelist Herbert W. Armstrong, who 
 Dr. David P. Robbins, a mathematician who broke codes and cryptological problems for the government and devised an algebraic formula that became widely recognized in the mathematical world, died on Sept. 4 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 61. The cause was pancreatic cancer, hi
 Dr. Donald L. Dahlsten, an insect biologist who fought California's pest problems with predatory insects as an alternative to chemical pesticides, died on Sept. 3 at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 69. The cause was skin cancer, said the University of California at Berkeley, w
 Frederick A. Hetzel, who was the director of the University of Pittsburgh Press for 30 years and made it a leading publisher of short fiction and poetry as well as academic books, died on Saturday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 73. The cause was complications from rheumatoid arth
 Arthur Kinoy, one of the lawyers for the Chicago Seven and a founder of the Center for Constitutional Rights, long a force in the civil rights movement, died on Sept. 19 at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 82. In 1969, Mr. Kinoy joined William M. Kunstler and Leonard I. Weinglass 
 Theodore R. Kupferman, a former city councilman, Republican congressman from the Silk Stocking district and state appellate judge, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was complications from urological surgery, his wife, Fran, said yesterday.    
 Benny Carter, whose combination of highly developed talents as composer, arranger, bandleader and soloist on a variety of instruments was unmatched in the jazz world, died Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 95.       
 John Lowenthal, who interrupted his career as a law professor to make the 1980 documentary film ''The Trials of Alger Hiss,'' died on Sept. 9 in London. He was 78 and lived in London and Manhattan. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his daughter, Anne Hermans. Mr. Lowenth
 Theodore R. Kupferman, a former city councilman, Republican congressman from the Silk Stocking district and state appellate judge, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was complications from urological surgery, his wife, Fran, said yesterday.    
 Gen. Charles A. Gabriel, a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President Ronald Reagan and the first fighter pilot to serve as chief of the Air Force, died on Sept. 4 at an assisted-living center in Arlington, Va. He was 75. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Cha
 Henry Harfield, a lawyer specializing in banking who also participated in the release of prisoners taken at the Bay of Pigs, died on Sept. 13 in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Harfield spent his entire career at the New York law firm of Shearman & Sterling, where he helped develop the le
 Marshall Jamison, the first producer for the 1960's satirical review ''That Was the Week That Was'' on American television, died Sept. 2 in Orlando, Fla., where he lived. He was 85. ''That Was the Week That Was,'' often known by the shorthand ''T.W.3,'' came to American television f
 Paul S. Conklin, a prolific photojournalist who was the first official photographer for the Peace Corps in the 1960's, died on Wednesday at his home in Port Townsend, Wash. He was 74. The cause was cancer, his wife, Ruth Merryman, said. Mr. Conklin's work appeared in Nationa
 Ralph M. Rourke, director of what many from the Bronx proclaim to be the original and greatest Hall of Fame, died on Aug. 28 at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital, according to Bronx Community College, where the hall is located. He was 80. The Hall of Fame for Great Americans, on West
 Simon V. Muzenda, a vice president of Zimbabwe and a longtime aide to President Robert G. Mugabe, died late Saturday, the nation's state-controlled television reported today. The announcement ended weeks of officially denied rumors that Mr. Muzenda, 80, was on hospital life support in Harar
 Bernard Manischewitz, the last member of his family to preside over the worldwide kosher food empire that began when his grandfather opened a small matzo bakery in Cincinnati, died on Saturday at his home in Verona, N.J. He was 89. Mr. Manischewitz was president of the B. Manischewi
 The jazz tenor saxophonist Frank Lowe, who first appeared in the wave of New York free-jazz players influenced by John Coltrane and then went on to explore an earlier jazz and rhythm-and-blues feeling, died last Friday in St. Clare's hospital in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was c
 John Michael Bailey, the former chief state's attorney and a scion of one of Connecticut's most famous and powerful political families, died today at his home in West Hartford. He was 59. Mr. Bailey, Connecticut's longest-serving chief state's attorney at nine years, resigned after 
 David Minkin, a successful New York-area real estate developer who was also president emeritus of Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center in Brooklyn, died on Friday. He was 99 and lived in Queens and in Palm Beach, Fla. He died at J.F.K. Medical Center in Palm Beach County. In an 
 Hugo Young, a leading columnist, political author and chairman of the Scott Trust, which owns The Guardian and The Observer, died Monday in London. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. In a 30-year career of publishing his opinions, he established himself as an 
 Joseph M. Magliochetti, the chairman and chief executive of the Dana Corporation, a big auto parts company, died here Monday night. He was 61. The cause was complications from pancreatitis, the company, which is based in Toledo, Ohio, said in a statement. Mr. Magliochetti was hospit
 Simcha Dinitz, the Israeli ambassador to the United States during the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, who played a crucial but disputed role in arranging an airlift of American military supplies to Israel, died yesterday at his home in Jerusalem. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, The 
 Herb Gardner, the award-winning playwright whose credits include ''A Thousand Clowns'' and ''I'm Not Rappaport,'' died last night at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was lung disease, said his wife, Barbara C. Sproul. Throughout his career, 
 Dr. Paul LoGerfo, a surgeon who helped advance the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid disease, died on Sept. 16 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his brother Frank. Dr. LoGerfo, who lived in Manhattan, was best known f
 Simon Breines, a New York City architect who was the first president of the Landmarks Conservancy of New York and the architect member of the Art Commission of New York City, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 97. Mr. Breines was a partner in the New York City-ba
 Edward W. Said, a polymath scholar and literary critic at Columbia University who was the most prominent advocate in the United States of the cause of Palestinian independence, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was leukemia, which Dr. Said had been battling since 
 Franco Modigliani, who received the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1985 for his pathbreaking explanations of how people save and the role of debt in determining the value of corporations, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. He died in his sleep, th
 Herb Gardner, whose 1962 play ''A Thousand Clowns'' was the first of a string of Broadway successes in which his eccentric characters conveyed the whimsical charm and dark truths that grew out of the author's youth in New York, died on Wednesday at home in Manhattan. He was 68. The 
 Bennett Lenson Robinson, a designer of annual reports for companies like H. J. Heinz, died on Wednesday while on vacation in Vienna. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Robinson died of injuries from a traffic accident, his family said. Mr. Robinson began his career in pro
 George Plimpton, the New York aristocrat and literary journalist whose career was a happy lifelong competition between scholarly pursuits and madcap attempts -- chronicled in self-deprecating prose -- to try his hand at glamorous jobs for which he was invariably unsuited, died yesterday at 
 Robert Palmer, a debonair English singer who channeled his fondness for American rock and soul into a string of hits in the 1970's and 80's, died yesterday in Paris. He was 54 and had resided in Switzerland. The cause was a heart attack, said his publicist, Elizabeth Freund. He was 
 Donald O'Connor, the jaunty, versatile dancer, singer and actor whose acrobatic ''Make 'Em Laugh'' solo in ''Singin' in the Rain'' is considered one of Hollywood's finest dance moments, died yesterday. He was 78. Mr. O'Connor, who had been in failing health for some time, died at th
 John Orrell, a historian whose intellectual detective work laid the groundwork for the 1997 re-creation of Shakespeare's original Globe Theater, died on Sept. 16 in Edmonton, Alberta. He was 68 and lived in Edmonton. The cause was melanoma, his wife, Wendy, said. The details
 Donald O'Connor, the jaunty, versatile dancer, singer and actor whose acrobatic ''Make 'Em Laugh'' solo in ''Singin' in the Rain'' is considered one of Hollywood's finest dance moments, died Saturday. He was 78. Mr. O'Connor, who had been in failing health for some time, died at the
 Elia Kazan, the immigrant child of a Greek rug merchant who became one of the most honored and influential directors in Broadway and Hollywood history, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. Mr. Kazan's achievements in theater and cinema helped define the American exper
 Sir Ian Hunter, a British impresario and organizer of arts festivals who played a major role in shaping the annual Edinburgh Festival, died on Sept. 5 at his home in West Sussex, England. He was 84. As managing director and later as president of Harold Holt (now Askonas Holt), a Bri
 Benjamin Shimberg, an expert on how occupational testing, licensing and certifying can protect the public, died on Wednesday in Trenton. He was 85 and lived in Lawrenceville, N.J. He died as a result of a stroke he suffered on Sept. 18, his family said. Dr. Shimberg, a forme
 Marshall N. Rosenbluth, a pioneer in unleashing and taming nuclear fusion, the force that powers the sun and stars, died on Sunday in San Diego. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to the University of California at San Diego, where Dr. Rosenbluth had taught.      
 The Rev. Joseph T. Cahill, who as president of St. John's University for 24 years saw it grow into the largest Catholic university in the United States, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Cape May, N.J. He died at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan; the cause
 William C. Morris, who as vice president and director of library promotion at HarperCollins Children's Books is often credited with developing the modern marketing of children's books, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said Catherine Balkin, n
