 Athelstan F. Spilhaus, a geophysicist and meteorologist who invented a device that measures temperatures at the depths of the sea and who became the first United States representative on the executive board of Unesco, died on Monday at his home in Middleburg, Va. He was 86. Dreamer,
 CONROY-Rev. Edward G.F. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired parochial vicar of Holy Name of Jesus Church, Brooklyn on March 30, 1998. Reposing in Leo Kearns Funeral Home, 103-33 Lefferts Blvd, Richmond Hill, Wed, April 1, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 PM. Funeral Mass Thursd
 FINKLE-Joel. Ohr Torah Stone Institutions of Israel mourns with sadness the passing of Joel Finkle, a loving and beloved Jew, a philanthropist with vision and with heart, a self-made leader of his people. May his most courageous life partner, Maria, find the solace and strength to continue 
 FRECHEN-Joseph B., Ph.D. Passed away on March 30, 1998. Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science at St. John's University, Jamaica, NY. Fellow of the New York Academy of Sciences, former Chair of the Computer and Information Sciences section at the Academy. Marine Corps veteran of Worl
 HARE-Montgomery. Born August 21, 1911 in New York City. He died at age 87 on March 28, 1998, at his home in Cornwall, Connecticut, where he and his family have lived since 1940. Mr. Hare grew up in Saint James, Long Island, New York, and in Lenox, Massachusetts; and New York City. He gradua
 JOHNSON-Cecil. A resident of Las Cruces, N.M. since 1995, died March 31 at the Good Samaritan Nursing Home, at the age of 96. Mr. Johnson, a Fellow of the Royal College of Engineering, was born in London, England, August 5th, 1901. Following his graduation from Dulwich College, he went to I
 McNALLY-Frank. Retired vice president and treasurer of Ethyl Corporation, naval aviator, attorney, native of Bal Harbor, New York, died Monday, March 30 at his home in Southern Shores, North Carolina. Mr. McNally was eighty one. He is survived by his wife of fifty-five years, Eleanor Hollan
 NANNI-Louis F. March 29, 1998. Loving husband of the late Ethel. Owner and proprietor of Nanni's Restaurant and Nanni Il Valletto, Institutions of Italian Cuisine. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him, especially his longtime and loyal staff. Friends may call Wednesday and Thursday
 ROBBINS-Jules W. Died on March 19th, 1998, sudden heart attack. Survivors wife Celia, brother Mack, sister Mae Gross, sisters-inlaw Rose Robbins, Gussie Fader, nephews and nieces. Self-sacrificing, charitable, goodness to others were his limitless qualities. He lives in our hearts forever. 
 ROBESON-David Paul. On March 27, 1998, age 46. Son of Marilyn and Paul Robeson, Jr., brother of Susan, nephew of Harold Graham, grandson of the late Paul Robeson. Folklorist, performance artist and director of Ancestral Spirits, a performance group of stilt dancers in the African-Caribbean 
 TORCZYNER-Harry. The Board of Trustees of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art mourn the passing of their friend and colleague. His support of Israel and the Tel Aviv Museum of Art will long be felt. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. Our heartfelt sympathy to the e
 W. Benson Terry, a character actor who worked in theater and film, died on March 24 at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Terry, who grew up in Cincinnati, had an earlier life as a
 David Hicks, whose relentlessly organized, color-clashing home interiors were the acme of jet-set chic in the 1960's, died on Sunday at The Grove, his country house in Brightwell Baldwin in Oxfordshire, England. He was 69. Mr. Hicks, who had recently suffered a stroke, died of lung 
 Luigi Nanni, a chef and restaurateur who was one of the first in the United States to offer Italian food as it is served in Italy, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. He had been suffering from lung cancer for some time, said Victoria Morales, his longtime bookkeeper
 BASS-Martin. On March 20, 1998, of cancer, at age 75. Beloved husband of Dell, father of Karen J. Fletcher, grandfather of Jason and Frank, brother of Philip, uncle of Judith and Marcy. An unconventional man, he left a successful career in TV commercial production with partner J. Sedelmaier
 BRAND-Joseph A. Of New York and Deal, N.J. On March 31, 1998. A 1941 graduate of University of Virginia. Distinguished U.S. Naval Officer World War II and former President of Federated Brokerage Group. Beloved husband of Ina. Devoted father of Peter and Rena Sue, brother of Bill Brand. Frie
 CHEHEBAR-Gabriel. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation are deeply saddened by the death of Gabriel Chehebar, a dedicated supporter and prominent leader of New York's Syrian Sephardic community. He was a dynamic founder of Congregation Ahaba Ve'Ahva, and a well-known
 FINKLE-Joel. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Joel Finkle. To his dear wife Maria, his wonderful partner in life, our sincere condolences. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President       
 HOPKINS-Dana B. A native of Charleston, SC and a long time resident of Manhattan, died at his home Mar. 31, 1998. He is survived by a sister, Alston Osgood Wolf and her husband, Albert Allen Wolf of Charlotte, NC; a niece Alston Kirk Smith and her husband, Henry Bryan Smith of Farmington Hi
 LaBRANCHE-George M.L. III. Age 72. Born in New York City on November 11, 1925. Died March 17 after a valiant struggle against cancer. George joined the Marine Corps in 1942 at the age of 17 and later fought in the battle of Iwo Jima. He retired as the President of Roy B. Rendle Company, a B
 LEVINE-Nathan, 77. Of Hallandale, FL and Rego Park, NY. Died March 30, 1998 in Miami, FL after a long illness. Born in Brooklyn, New York, on August 21, 1920. Mr. Levine graduated from Boys High School in Brooklyn and attended St John's University in Queens, NY. Until his retirement, Mr. Le
 McNALLY-Frank. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Frank McNally, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 RAY-James, Colonel. Norman Buchbinder, Eugene Warren and the entire Buchbinder & Warren staff regret the passing of their first client and friend of 40 years, Colonel James Ray. Condolences to his family.       
 ROBESON-David Paul. The Board and staff of the Paul Robeson Foundation mourn his untimely demise. Our prayers go to the family in their time of bereavement. David joins his beloved grandmother, Eslanda G. Robeson, and grandfather, Paul Robeson, in the Kingdom of Heaven. William Pickens, III
 SCHWARTZ-Lawrence. Of Coronado, CA. On March 31, 1998 after a valiant struggle. He will be greatly missed by his loving children, Ellen Schwartz, Amy and David Kriss, Jeffrey and Lynne Schwartz. Cherished grandfather of Mariel, Carly, Joshua, Danielle and Courtney. Beloved companion of Gail
 MASON-George Perley 67. Died in Cancun, Mexico, March 1, 1998. A memorial service will be held for family, friends, and employees Friday, April 3, at 5:30 P.M. in The Church of Saint Peter, 16 Barclay St., Manhattan. A native of Brooklyn and veteran of the Korean War, Mr. Mason was a gradua
 David Bourdon, a critic who was closely involved in the innovative Manhattan art world of the early 1960's and who was one of the early writers on the Minimalist movement, died on March 27 at Simi Valley Hospital in Simi Valley, Calif. He was 63. The cause was esophageal cancer, sai
 BLEIWEISS-Howard S., 41, of Scottsdale, AZ. Chef. Died March 27, 1998. Born in New York City. Survivors include his parents Beatrice Goode and Simon Bleiweiss, stepmother Elizabeth Diamond Bleiweiss and sisters Diane Bleiweiss and Bonnie Lewis. Services at 10 AM, Sunday, April 5, Parkside C
 BONNER-James C. Age 50, of Fairfield, CT, died on April 2, 1998 in New York Hospital, New York City. Beloved husband of Susan Whidden Bonner and loving father of Christopher and Ellie Bonner. Brother to Peter Bonner of Swansea, MA, Nancy Ceccarelli of Marshfield, MA, Genny Pearce of Fairfie
 BRAND-Joseph A. Of New York and Deal, N.J. On March 31, 1998. A 1941 graduate of University of Virginia. Distinguished U.S. Naval Officer World War II and former President of Federated Brokerage Group. Beloved husband of Ina. Devoted father of Peter and Rena Sue, brother of Bill Brand. Serv
 DUROSS II-Charles E. Born in New York on November 27, 1940 to the late Neil and Emily Duross, and graduate of Fordham University and Law School (1963, 1967). From 1967-74, he was an associate and later partner at Zock, Petrie, Sheneman & Reid in New York. In 1974, he became counsel to The U
 FERON-Louis, 96. Goldsmith, jeweler, sculptor, died March 28, 1998 in NH. French born, he trained in Paris as gold and silversmith winning the title ''Meilleur Ouvrier de France'' in 1933. He designed and executed works for church, state and private clients in Costa Rica: 1934-45. He worked
 FINKLE-Joel. The Palm Beach Orthodox Synagogue mourns the passing of its dedicated member Joel Finkle Z''L who with his dear wife Maria was guided throughout his life by a deep committment to Jewish values, philanthropy and Jewish community service. By his example of outstanding deeds and p
 OSBORNE-Msgr. William J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired pastor emeritus of St. Fidelis Church, 12306 14th Ave., College Point on April 2. Reposing in James Stout Funeral Home, 1339 College Point Blvd., College Point, Saturday April 4, from 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. and Su
 PYLE-James Tolman. Of Oyster Bay, Long Island and Seal Harbor, ME. Died April 1, 1998. He was an aviation pioneer who is survived by his wife of 60 years, Ann Finlay, 5 children and nine grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at Princeton University Chapel, 3:30PM, on May 10, 1998. 
 RASCH-David. April 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Ernestine and the late Rhoda, devoted father of Alan and Joan Kindleberger, grandfather of Meredith, Lisa and the late Jonathan. Service Friday April 3, 10:30 AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, 81 St. RASCH - David. Congregation E
 SCHWARTZ-Lawrence. Of Coronado, CA. On March 31, 1998 after a valiant struggle. He will be greatly missed by his loving children, Ellen Schwartz, Amy and David Kriss, Jeffrey and Lynne Schwartz. Cherished grandfather of Mariel, Carly, Joshua, Danielle and Courtney. Beloved companion of Gail
 SIMS-Lester. On March 29, 1998 in Aventura, Florida. Loving brother of Doris Chesler. Father of Harriet Harvey. Grandfather of Ellen Maness, Laura James, Todd Bodenstein, Leslie Pickleman and Karyn Harvey. Great grandfather of Carter Maness, Alexandra Maness and Willem Pickleman. He was the
 THOMPSON-James D. Formerly of Greenwich, CT., and New York City died Saturday, March 14, 1998 in Naples, FL. Mr. Thompson was born January 12, 1907 in Bala, PA., one of four children of Louise and Harry A. Thompson. Mr. Thompson spent his youth in Greenwich and attend Trinty-Pawling School 
 MASON-George Perley, 67. Died in Cancun, Mexico, March 1, 1998. A memorial service will be held for family, friends, and employees Friday, April 3, at 5:30 P.M. in The Church of Saint Peter, 16 Barclay St., Manhattan. A native of Brooklyn and veteran of the Korean War, Mr. Mason was a gradu
 Richard Bellamy, a New York art dealer whose Green Gallery was one of the most important showcases of avant-garde art during the American art explosion of the early 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Long Island City, Queens. He was 70. He died in his sleep, said his son, Miles. 
 Eberhard F. M. Rees, a German-born rocket engineer who in 1970 succeeded Wernher von Braun as the chief of American rocketry efforts, died on Thursday at the West Volusia Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 89 and lived at the Good Shepards Home in DeLand, Fla. Mr. Rees had suffere
 George R. Geiger, a professor of philosophy and a founding editor of the Antioch Review, died on March 17 at the Friends Care Center in Yellow Springs, Ohio. He was 94. Mr. Geiger was John Dewey Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Antioch College in Yellow Springs. He joined the fac
 Harold E. Wilson, a former Marine sergeant who won the Medal of Honor in the Korean War for ''heroic actions in the face of almost certain death'' in the Chinese Communists' massive human-wave offensive of April 1951, died on Sunday at Lexington Medical Center in West Columbia, S.C. He was 
 Michael W. McCarthy, a former chairman of Merrill Lynch & Company who helped expand that brokerage firm into a global enterprise, died on Wednesday at his home in Indian Wells, Calif. Mr. McCarthy, 94, also served for a time as a governor of both the New York and American Stock Exch
 BONNER-James C. Age 50, of Fairfield, CT, died on April 2, 1998 in New York Hospital, New York City. Beloved husband of Susan Whidden Bonner and loving father of Christopher and Ellie Bonner. Brother to Peter Bonner of Swansea, MA, Nancy Ceccarelli of Marshfield, MA, Genny Pearce of Fairfie
 DUROSS-Charles E. The Board of Governors of the New York Athletic Club records with profound sorrow the passing of their beloved Governor and Rooms and Renting Chairman, Charles E. Duross. We have lost a true friend and a devoted member and to his family convey our heart felt sympathy. Jame
 FEYER-Emery. On April 2, 1998, age 90. Man of courage, tower of strength. Survived by his loving son, Tom; his daughter-in-law, Cathy, and his grandchildren, Andrew and Laura,       
 GANZ-Lou. The Seawane Club records with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Lou Ganz. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Robert Roman, President GANZ-Louis. Father of Carol Ann Zinn and Robert Ganz, father-inlaw of Jo, grandfather of Adam, Omar, Nikki and Jackie. Gentle, 
 MAIMONE-Emanuel Paul (Manny). Age 54. Friday, April 3, 1998, at his home in McLean, VA. Beloved husband of Carol; devoted father of Christian, Sara, Lauren and Greg. Son of Paul Maimone. He is also survived by 5 grandchildren. Friends may call at Money and King Funeral Home, 171 West Maple 
 WEYL-Walter. A resident of Kendal at Hanover, N.H. Died on April 1, 1998, at the age of 93. Born in Hamburg, Germany, December 11, 1904, the first child of Michael and Margarete Fahning Weyl. He arrived on Ellis Island in 1923, the day after his 19th birthday and continued his journey to St
 Dr. David C. McClelland, a psychologist who studied human motivation, job competency and the entrepreneurial spirit, died on March 27 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 80. For most of his 57-year teaching and research career, he enthralled Harvard University students with his u
 J. Blan van Urk, a high-spirited sportsman and sometimes public relations man, author and entrepreneur who spent the better part of a century riding happily to the hounds, died on Monday at a health care center near his home at Sugar Tree Farm in Unionville, Pa. He was 95 and a widely recog
 James R. Herman, a former president of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, which represents stevedores on the West Coast and a variety of other workers, died on March 20 at California Pacific Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was heart fail
 John S. Alessio, a California entrepreneur who began his working life shining shoes in San Diego and went on to amass millions as a banker, businessman, restaurateur and race-track operator, died of cancer on March 24 at Scripps Green Hospital in La Jolla, Calif., his daughter Rose Marie Ro
 BELLAMY - Richard. Beloved father of Miles. Stepfather to Andy and Laurie. ''Grandpa'' to Alexandra and Lucas. We will miss him always. BELLAMY-Richard. It was a privilege to know Dick. We send our love and deep condolences to his family, Andrew and Wendy, Laurie Tatarsky, his grand
 DUROSS II-Charles E. Born in New York on November 27, 1940 to the late Neil and Emily Duross, and graduate of Fordham University and Law School (1963, 1967). From 1967-74, he was an associate and later partner at Zock, Petrie, Sheneman & Reid in New York. In 1974, he became counsel to The U
 ELKIN-David B. On March 28, 1998. Beloved husband to Margot Turitz Elkin, loving father of Charlotte and Sam Elkin, cherished brother of Ethel Elkin and devoted son-in-law to Zitha Turitz. David was an economist, former Vice President of W.R. Grace and Co, adjunct professor, and economic co
 GANZ-Louis. Father of Carol Ann Zinn and Robert Ganz, father-inlaw of Jo, grandfather of Adam, Omar, Nikki and Jackie. Gentle, strong, loving. Always his own man. We will all miss him. Services Sunday, 12 noon, Riverside Memorial Chapel, Mt. Vernon, NY.       
 ISRAEL-Oscar Harold. Passed on April 2 at his home in Stamford, CT. He was a graduate of Ethical Culture Fieldston School excelling scholastically and athletically, where he held a 100 yard dash record for 26 years. Oscar graduated Dartmouth College, Class of '41 and received an MA in Busin
 JOHNES-Stephen C. Manager of the Merrill Lynch Growth Fund, died at his home in Princeton, New Jersey on Sunday, March 29, of Lou Gehrig's Disease (ALS). Son of the late Alfred and Elisabeth, Stephen graduated from the Loomis School and Cornell University and served in the U.S. Marine Corps
 MINETTI-Vincente. March 30, 1998, in his 58th year. Gentleman, artist, designer, bon vivant, most generous friend died peacefully at his home in Amsterdam of lung cancer. Survived by his mother Helen Minetti, sister Gaynell Ashley, nieces and nephews, and many loving friends. ''Life is not 
 SLOMOWITZ - Hyman (Harry). Passed away suddenly March 24, 1998. Much beloved son, brother, uncle, friend. Longtime member of Congregation Zichron Moshe in Manhattan, Trustee of Stuyvesant High School Alumni Association. The family requests that donations be made in his memory to your own ch
 Sidney Stewart, a survivor of the Bataan death march and three years in Japanese captivity in World War II who wrote the highly praised memoir ''Give Us This Day,'' an account of how the prisoners endured their intense suffering, died on March 18 at a hospital in Paris. He was 78 and lived 
 Tim Flock, a colorful and highly successful driver in the early years of stock-car automobile racing, died on Tuesday in his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 73. Jonathan Mauk, the historian for stock-car racing's governing body, Nascar, said Flock was found only weeks ago to be suffe
 Austin Patterson Kelley, an advertising executive who was known as ''the dean'' among his peers in Atlanta for his emphasis on ethics, died March 26 of prostate cancer, his brother, Blaine Kelley Jr. of Atlanta, said. He was 67 and was the chairman and chief executive of Austin Kelley Adver
 Dr. John Turkevich, a chemist at Princeton University whose work with catalysts helped pave the way for the commercial production of unleaded gasoline, died March 25 at the St. Lawrence Rehabilitation Center in Lawrenceville, N.J. He was 91 and a resident of Jamesburg, N.J. His work
 BASS-Harry Wesley, Jr. The Council and membership of The American Numismatic Society, New York, mourn the death of their esteemed past President and benefactor, Harry W. Bass, Jr., who died April 4, 1998. A member of the ANS governing board since 1972, he served as First Vice-President, 197
 BIELER-Ella. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Arthur Stern on the loss of his sister, Ella Bieler. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 CELLA-Richard. Brigadier General Richard Cella was a command fighter pilot who flew more than 200 combat missions over the Pacific during World War II. He entered military service in May, 1939, as a Second Lieutenant in the Coast Artillery Corps reserve. He received his Masters Degree in Ae
 HINTON-Bruce Michael. Suddenly, on April 4, 1998. Survived by his friends Michael Davis, John Gnerre and Eric Niemand. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to God's Love We Deliver.       
 PERSE-Harry. The Capitol Motion Picture Supply Corporation mourns the untimely passing of our beloved Harry. Our deepest sympathy to his family. He will be missed. The staff of Capitol       
 SIBENER-Albert. Died April 5, 1998. Devoted husband to the late Pauline Selikovitz and the late Ruth Verne; loving father of Carole Teller and step-children Alan (Barbara) Verne, Maxine Verne, Lucette (David) Bloomgarden, and step-grandchildren. Cherished brother to Daniel, Charles, Bernice
 SIMMONS-Sanford G. Age 73, of Greenwich, CT, and Savannah, GA, died April 1, 1998. He is survived by his wife Marie Schaller Simmons; three sons Sanford G. Jr., of Phoenix, AZ; Mark A. of Naugatuck, CT; and Gordon M. of Tucson, AZ; a stepdaughter, Belinda Benincasa of Old Greenwich, CT, and
 Philip Davis, who practiced law so unobtrusively for more than two-thirds of a century that he made his biggest legal splash as a disgruntled railroad passenger, died on March 26 at a retirement home in Basking Ridge, N.J. He was 90 and twice went to court to establish the revolutionary not
 Gen. Herbert Butler Powell, a former chief of the Continental Army Command and former Ambassador to New Zealand, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 94. General Powell joined the National Guard in his native Oregon and retired 43 years later, in 1963, as a
 In the past two winters, speed skating has been revolutionized by a clap skate that allows skaters to go so much faster that they have rewritten the entire record book. Gerrit Jan van Ingen Schenau, a Dutch scientist who developed the skate, died last Thursday in Weteringburg, 25 miles sout
 Jonas A. Barish, a historian of the theater and an authority on the English dramatist and poet Ben Jonson and his contemporary Shakespeare, died on Wednesday at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Oakland, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. The cause was respiratory comp
 ANDREAS-Alfred. On April 3, 1998. Since one of his parents was Jewish, he fled his homeland Poland when Nazis were in power. He came in time to NYC where he lived for many years and worked as an Engineer. He was a member of NYC Tennis Club with a fine passion for the sport. Recently he used
 BECKLEY-John Luther. Of Livingston, NJ formerly of North Caldwell, NJ, April 5, 1998, husband of Eleanor Beckley (nee Howe), father of Georgia May Jervey of Murray Hill, NJ, Jean B. Crane of Little Falls, NJ, and William H. of Meguon, WI, also survived by six grandchildren and three greatgr
 CALABRESE-Benjamin. Born on April 7th, 1918 in Brooklyn, died on March 25th, 1998 in Manhattan. Lover of justice and music, he enriched the lives of many, both in his personal life and as a long time proprietor of the Piano Gallery. Father of Philip (Sylvia), loving grandfather of Julia and
 CELLA-Richard. Brigadier General Richard Cella was a command fighter pilot who flew more than 200 combat missions over the Pacific during World War II. He entered military service in May, 1939, as a Second Lieutenant in the Coast Artillery Corps reserve. He received his Master's Degree in A
 HERTZBERG-Robert. Beloved husband of Myra. Devoted son of Alice and the late Nelson. Loving father of David, Steven and Gregory and their spouses. Dearest brother of Edward and Richard, and wonderful grandfather of Rebecca, Tara, Natasha, Daniel, Dane, Zachary and Joshua. He blessed us all 
 HINTON-Bruce Michael. Suddenly, on April 4, 1998. Survived by his friends Michael Davis, John Gnerre and Eric Niemand. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to God's Love We Deliver.       
 ISRAEL-Oscar H. Passed April 2 at his home in Stamford. Memorial service at Campbell's, 1076 Madison Ave, Wednesday, April 8, 11 AM. Burial will follow at the High Ridge Cemetery, High Ridge Road, Stamford, CT at 3 PM.       
 KING-Roy M. On Sunday, April 5, 1998. Roy King, beloved husband of Miriam King, (nee Schiller), devoted father of Justin King and the late Melody Ann King. Devoted father-in-law of Cynthia King. Loving brother of Arthur Feigenbaum of New York. Adoring grandfather of Bradley and Aaron King. 
 LESLIE-George. Of Westwood, Massachusetts, and Fishers Island, New York, peacefully on April 5 at age 85, George Robert III. Beloved husband of Catherine (McIntire) Leslie. He attended Bovee and Pomfret Schools and New York University, and was a former Vice President of the Irving Trust Co 
 LEVINE-Rubin (Ruby). Sammy's Restaurant mourns the loss of member of the team. A man with ''super talent and chutzpah''. He will be greatly missed. Graveside services on Wednesday, 1 P.M., at the Mount Hebron Cemetery.       
 MINNEMA-John. The Board of Trustees of The Jaqua Foundation express our deepest sympathy to the family of our dear friend and devoted colleague, John T. Minnema. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Gertrude and his children, Jill Worth and Joan Minnema. John's insight and wisdom wil
 PERSE-Harry H. 81 years, died on April 4, devoted husband of Ann, beloved father of Thomas, Ilsa, Richard and Laura. Loving grandfather of Tobias, Allison, Rachel, James and Zoey. Harry, you'll be missed. Your humor and warmth will live on. A memorial service will be held Thursday, April 9,
 SIBENER-Albert. Died April 5, 1998. Devoted husband to the late Pauline Selikovitz and the late Ruth Verne; loving father of Carole Teller and step-children Alan (Barbara) Verne, Maxine Verne, Lucette (David) Bloomgarden, and step-grandchildren. Cherished brother to Daniel, Charles, Bernice
 VIERENGEL-Thomas J. Of Melrose, NY at his residence on April 5, 1998. Husband of Diane Morell Vierengel. Devoted father of Frederick John Vierengel of Palm Coast, FL., and James Thomas Vierengel of Long Island, NY. Son of the late Edgar and Helene Corey Vierengel. Brother of Robert (Viereng
 YOUNG-Benjamin. On April 6, 1998. Lawyer and community leader of Riverdale, NY, died at age 94. The oldest practicing attorney of New York Law School (Class of '24), he served his profession and community until age 92, was Counsel for the National and New York Associations for Meat and Poul
 Robert Pilatus, a member of Milli Vanilli, the German pop duo forced to give up its 1990 Grammy Award when it was disclosed that the pair  did not sing a word on its album, died on Saturday in a hotel room in Frankfurt. He was 32. The cause was a heart attack, according to the Frank
 Alain BosquetAlain Bosquet, a prolific French poet, novelist and literary critic, died on March 17 in Paris, where he made his home. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said William Jay Smith, a friend and a former Poet Laureate of the United States. Mr. Bosquet was much admire
 Frank Lloyd, the Vienna-born entrepreneur who built the Marlborough Gallery into the wealthiest, most important art gallery business in the world and then sullied his reputation with his criminal role in the Rothko art scandal of the 1970's, died Tuesday at his home in Nassau, the Bahamas. 
 ALPERSTEIN-Arnold S. On April 7, 1998. Beloved by all who knew him. The most devoted husband of the late Eileen, and loving father of Orren, Cory and Leigh and grandfather of Madeleine, Morgan, Sacha, Olivia, Aidan, Miranda and Elianna. Memorial service 3PM Thursday, April 16, 1998 at the D
 BOYKO-Jeffrey. Beloved husband of Leslie, devoted father of Alexander. Son of Rhoda Boyko and brother of Kenneth Elkin. Services today April 8th, 1:45 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. BOYKO-Jeffrey. On April 7, 1998. The Board of Governors and the members
 GOLDMAN-Babette S. Leiter. On April 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Ben Goldman and Dr. H. Evans Leiter. Loving grandmother of Jonathan and Alexander. Dear sister of Allan E. Shore and his wife Carol. Devoted cousin of Manny and Arthur Sprung. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 GRANT-Michael J. (Honorable). Of Brentwood on April 5th, 1998 surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of Georgia J. for 43 years. Loving and proud father of Michael J. Jr., Patricia Flynn, Colleen Kelly, Eileen Lyons and Alison Casey. Cherished poppie of Michael J. III and Kevin P. Grant,
 HOGAN-Howard T. Justice Hogan was a great judge but a greater friend to all lawyers. His opinions were widely quoted. He educated the American Bar in the principles of Condemnation Law. He was considerate to those who practiced before him, often staying late at night to hold court to accomo
 KING-Roy M. On Sunday, April 5, 1998. Roy King, beloved husband of Miriam King, (nee Schiller), devoted father of Justin King and the late Melody Ann King. Devoted father-in-law of Cynthia King. Loving brother of Arthur Feigenbaum of New York. Adoring grandfather of Bradley and Aaron King. 
 LEFF-James J. The Board of Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, First District, notes with sadness the passing of our former colleague, James J. Leff, who retired last year after 27 years on the bench. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife and family. Beatrice Shainswit, 
 MINNEMA-John. The Board of Trustees of The Jaqua Foundation express our deepest sympathy to the family of our dear friend and devoted colleague, John T. Minnema. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Gertrude and his children, Jill Worth and Joan Minnema. John's insight and wisdom wil
 MYERS-Hon. Allen Murray. Died Apr. 7, 1998. Retired NYS Supreme Court Justice after 12 years; Acting Surrogate, NY County, in 1982; and served as judge of New York City Civil Court from 1967-1976. Member of Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services (JAMS) since 1991 and Judicial Hearing O
 NOVICK-William. Devoted husband of the late Bernice. Loving father. Cherished and adoring grandfather. Dear brother. Bill will be missed by all who knew him as he was always ready to greet people with a big smile and a wry sense of humor. He was a kind and loving man. Services today 12:30 a
 SMITH-Frank MacGregor, Jr. Born May 28, 1927 in Indianapolis, ID. Died April 2, 1998 in North Palm Beach, Florida. after a long illness. Son of Frank and Frieda Boes Smith, dedicated and loving husband to Abby, devoted father to Frank M. Smith III, Braddock M. Smith, Thaddeus M. Smith, Nath
 WHALEN-James. The Officers, Executive Board and Members of The Association of Contracting Plumbers of The City of New York, Inc. mourns the passing of our member James Whalen of Kay Mechanical, Inc. Mr. Whalen served as President and Executive Board Member for many years and made a valuable
 YOUNG-Benjamin. On April 6, 1998. Lawyer and community leader of Riverdale, NY, died at age 94. The oldest practicing attorney of New York Law School (Class of '24), he served his profession and community until age 92, was Counsel for the National and New York Associations for Meat and Poul
 Richard Ellner, a specialty T-shirt manufacturer who was behind the Broadway Dance Center, a busy commercial studio offering ballet, jazz, tap and other dance classes, died on March 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause of death had not been determined, said his daughter
 Roland (Rolly) Schwartz, a major figure in American amateur boxing for almost 60 years and a coach of the 1976 United States Olympic team, died yesterday in the Hospice of Dayton in Ohio. He was 85. He died of renal failure, said his daughter, Margo Bienenfeld. As a youth, S
 James J. Leff, who was an outspoken New York State Supreme Court justice for three decades and helped the Conservative Party in its early days while he was a Manhattan lawyer, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He had a grav
 James T. Pyle, who got such a boyhood thrill from Charles A. Lindbergh's pioneering solo flight across the Atlantic that he devoted his life to aviation, died on April 1 at a hospital near his home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. He was 84 and had become something of a pioneer himself. As the first Dep
 ALPERSTEIN-Arnold S. Goldstick, Weinberger, Feldman & Grossman PC note with profound sorrow the passing of Arnold S. Alperstein. Arnold was a dedicated and devoted member of our firm for more than two decades and a caring human being. Our sincere condolences to his children and family membe
 BELLER-Barry. Beller & Keller, LLC, mourn the passing of our beloved member. We will miss his charm, intelligence, wisdom and guidance and his devotion to his profession.       
 BOYKO-Jeffrey. Park East Synagogue mourns the untimely passing of our devoted member Jeffrey Boyko, beloved husband of Leslie, father of Alexander, gifted student of our Fromer Religious School, and nephew of our Founder Benefactor and past President of Sisterhood, Charlotte Wool. Heartfelt
 BRAND-Joseph. The Board of Governors and Members of the Elberon Bathing Club mourn the passing of our longtime member and friend Joe Brand on March 31, 1998. His counsel and advice have been invaluable throughout the years. He will be sorely missed. Robert Fagenson, President Ellen Winik, S
 FINLAY-Rev. Terence John, D.D. Died peacefully in his sleep in his 92nd year, April 8, 1998 at Maplecrest Village, Grimsby, Ontario. Beloved husband of the late Sara McBryan Finlay; adored father of Terry (Alice-Jean) and Bryan (Carol); much loved grandfather of Sara-Jane and Rebecca, Molly
 GOLDMAN-Babette S. Leiter. On April 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Ben Goldman and Dr. H. Evans Leiter. Loving grandmother of Jonathan and Alexander. Dear sister of Allan E. Shore and his wife Carol. Devoted cousin of Manny and Arthur Sprung. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 ISRAEL-Sylvia, 87. Died April 6, 1998 in Sioux City, IA. Beloved wife of the late Arthur J. Survivors include two sons, Dr. Jerry Israel and his wife Carol of Sioux City, and Alan Fredericks and his wife Catherine of Old Bridge, NJ; six grandchildren and three great grandchildren. She was p
 LEET-Glen. On April 7, two weeks short of 90 years, in New York, a community development innovator. Beloved husband and partner of Mildred Robbins Leet. Loving father of Carla Leet, Frederika Leet and Glen Leet, Jr. Stepfather to Aileen Robbins and Jane Marla Robbins. Cherished grandfather 
 MYERS-Hon. Allen Murray. Died Apr. 7, 1998. Retired NYS Supreme Court Justice; Acting Surrogate, NY County, in 1982; and served as judge of New York City Civil Court from 1967-1976. Member of Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services (JAMS) since 1991 and Judicial Hearing Officer from 198
 NARDIELO-Ralph. In Melbourne, FL. Longtime resident of Pelham Manor. April 5. Loving husband of Mary (deceased). Father of Linda (deceased). Loved by his extended family. Devoted companion of Janet Brennan. We will miss the walks, talks, races, five o'clock cocktail hour, but most of all yo
 RUFF-Carl N., 84. Died on April 7, 1998. He is survived by his wife Edith Jordan Brener Ruff, his daughter Carla Ruff and his son Charles Ruff, his granddaughters Carin Ruff, Christina Wagner and Eliza Strauss, his nephews Clark Ruff and Todd Ruff, and Edith's son, Thomas Brener, and daught
 COHEN-Irving S. 5/6/28-4/9/96. Second year in heaven. We love and miss you daily. The Lord bless you and keep you under His wings. Your wife Mary, children, grandchildren       
 Raymond O. Mithun, who helped found the Campbell-Mithun Inc. advertising agency with $1,500 and three clients, died March 31 in Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. Mr. Mithun, who was 89, lived in Indian Wells, Calif., and died from complications from pneumonia, an agency spok
 Seth R. Thomas, a sixth-generation descendant of a 19th-century clockmaker of the same name and himself a keeper of timepieces, died at the Cleveland Clinic on Monday.  He was 56 and lived in Brecksville, Ohio, near Cleveland. The cause was prostate cancer, the family said. 
 BOYKO-Jeffrey A. Your direction, guidance, strength and inspiration formed our company. You were the builder and our leader. You have left a legacy of accomplishments. You will always be a large part of us-what we are and who we are. We will do our best without you. You will be missed. Our 
 FINLAY-Rev. Terence John, D.D. Died peacefully in his sleep in his 92nd year, April 8, 1998 at Maplecrest Village, Grimsby, Ontario. Beloved husband of the late Sara McBryan Finlay; adored father of Terry (Alice-Jean) and Bryan (Carol); much loved grandfather of Sara-Jane and Rebecca, Molly
 GRANT-Michael J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Michael J. Grant, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 HECKER-Henry. The Officers and Staff of Israel Bonds mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Henry Hecker. His warmth, integrity and sweet nature touched us all. We will miss him deeply. May his memory be blessed. Our sympathy to his family. Gideon Patt, Preside
 HURST-Dr. Kenneth. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club deeply mourn the passing of our beloved member, Dr. Kenneth Hurst. We offer our most heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Marion, his daughters, Melissa and Lainie, and son, Benjamin. Joel M. Simon, Pre
 LEET-Glen. All of us who have worked with the Trickle Up Program and have had the privilege of having known Glen Leet deeply mourn his death. Together with his wife Mildred Robbins Leet, he created and tested the wonderful poverty alleviation program that is Trickle Up. He guided and steere
 MITTELMAN-Morris. Age 98. Died on April 8th, 1998. Survived by his sons David and Richard and a daughter-in-law Sonia, five grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Fondly remembered and sadly missed. Funeral arrangements private.       
 PRATT-John T. Born in Harlem, NY, in 1940, died on April 8, 1998 from complications, arising from lung cancer in Miami, FL. He is survived by his loving wife and partner of twenty-three years, Marie Adele Lee and his six children, John, James, Christine, Jerome, Joseph and Jermamine and fos
 WING-Arthur Kyle, Jr. Of Lenox, MA, an authority in early power and microwave tube technology, died on April 8th, 1998, at the Sweetbrook Nursing Center in Williamstown, MA. He was 89. A native of Brooklyn, New York, he worked in vacuum tube research and development for Federal Telephone an
 JESSELSON-Ludwig. On the occasion of the fifth yahrzeit of Ludwig Jesselson, of blessed memory, we remember this extraordinary and humble man whose very being radiated kindness, dignity and modesty. A captain of industry, he viewed his charitable activities, undertaken with his wife and par
 Ruby Levine, a Brooklyn-born violinist who spent his life making people smile even if he had to resort to his vast store of painfully bad jokes to do it, died Saturday night apparently after suffering a heart attack near the Pennsylvania Hotel on Seventh Avenue. He was 81 and had been the w
 Alfred U. McKenzie, who took part in a major protest against segregation in the military in World War II while serving as a bomber pilot with the all-black Tuskegee Airmen, and then won a lawsuit decades later ending the Government Printing Office's discrimination against black employees, d
 Bengt Tornqvist, a sea captain who came up with the concept of building cargo ships with ramps and openings so that motor vehicles could be driven into and out of their holds, died April 3 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in New York City and Stockholm. He died of intes
 John Tate, whose tormented life went uphill during a five-month reign as a world heavyweight boxing champion and then downhill again, was killed early Thursday morning in a one-truck accident in Knoxville, Tenn., where he lived. He was 43. The 1989 Ford pickup truck Tate was driving
 BENIVEGNA-Dr. Salvatore L. On April 9, 1998 after a long illness. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, friend. He grew up and lived most of his life in Bklyn, NY where he practiced medicine as a general practitioner and surgeon. During World War II he served in the army med
 DEPERINO-Marie C. Of Northport, NY, on April 9, 1998, 93 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Ernest. Devoted mother of the late Jane M. Tafuri and the late Rosaria P. Loving Grandmother of Joseph J. Tafuri and his wife Beth, and Dr. Robert J. Tafuri and his wife Loretta. Cherished great 
 GOLBY-Robert L. Esq. In his 97th year, on April 9th at home. He is survived by his wife of 70 years, Berthe (Topsy) Eller Golby.       
 JOHNSON-J. Craig. Of Saddle River, N.J. Passed away Friday, April 10,in his home. He was President and co-founder of Johnson & Hayward, Inc. of Clifton, N.J. An early pioneer in international direct mail, he was well respected in the industry. He took a personal interest in each of his empl
 ROBINSON-Howard. To our dearest friends, Jeff and Harriet, words cannot express the grief we feel upon the tragic and untimely loss of your son, Howie. May you be granted the strength to face this trying time and may you rejoice in the wonderful memories of his life. Stephen, Linda, Lisa, a
 RUBACK-Robert I. The Pace University community mourns the passing of Robert I. Ruback, General Counsel and University Secretary, who passed away suddenly on April 10. Bob served Pace with distinction for over five decades, beginning as an adjunct professor, building the Department of Taxati
 Robert Lasch, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1966 for editorial writing in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, died Monday of kidney failure at a hospice in Green Valley, Ariz. He was 91 and had lived in Green Valley since 1971, when he retired from The Post-Dispatch as editor of the editorial page. 
 Maj. Gen. Sylvester T. Del Corso, who headed the Ohio National Guard when some of its soldiers shot and killed four students and wounded eight others at Kent State University during a campus antiwar protest three decades ago, died on Tuesday at his home in Worthington, Ohio. He was 85.     
 Charles S. Mill, a longtime magazine publisher and former president of American Business Press, a trade group, died on Friday at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. Mr. Mill, who lived in Madison, Conn., was 81. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Mill sp
 Denis Charles, who brought a Caribbean hand-drumming style into the contexts of straight-ahead and freely intuitive jazz, died on March 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was heart failure brought on by influenza, said his former wife, Gabriella Sonam. Mr. Cha
 Glen Frazier Leet, who worked to provide financing to entrepreneurs here and abroad and who aided community development programs around the world for more than five decades, died on April 7 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Leet's credentials in self-he
 Former Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach of Vietnam, the urbane diplomat who struggled but failed to normalize relations with the United States in the 1980's, died on Friday at the age of 75, foreign diplomats in Hanoi said today. There was no immediate announcement of his death by t
 COSYNS-Max. Anne, his daughter, mourns the loss of Max Cosyns - Mathematician - Nuclear Physicist-Researcher-Pioneer of the stratosphere, the bathyscaphe, the caverns. Hero of the Resistance, survivor of the Nazi death camps. A Renaissance man of Peace, courage and compassionand the best Da
 GIZELT-Charles. Born March 9, 1914 in Fiume, Austria (now Croatia), passed away April 8, 1998. Charles majored in Politial Science at the University of Rome, Italy. He came to America in 1951, and worked in Manhattan as a wine consultant specializing in Italian wine imports. He became a Man
 GOLBY-Robert L. Esq. In his 97th year, on April 9th at home. He is survived by his wife of 70 years, Berthe (Topsy) Eller Golby.       
 LEVENE-Arthur. Of Southampton, NY, died April 9, 1998. He is survived by his beloved wife of 26 years, Madeleine Mono; his daughter, Ronia Kuklin, (LA); daughter and son-in-law, Lesley and Mark Steiner (NY); stepchildren, Gail Berry, Louise and Rodger Bass (London, UK); Craig and Kimberly B
 LIEBERMAN-Morris, 86, Died April 7, King of the Gate Crashers, leaves an unparalleled legacy, mementoes of royalty and stars, surpassed only by his love for Fay, his wife of more than sixty years, children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren.       
 MARCUS-Julius, 89. Loving husband of the late Irene. Adored father of Laraine Pacheco. A very special man with a heart of gold. He was the best father in the world. I will miss him.       
 MILL-Charles. 81, of Madison, CT, formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Died Friday, April 10 in the hospice unit at Middlesex Hospital, Middletown, CT. Longtime business magazine publisher, he was president of the American Business Press from 1971-82. At his death, he was a director of the Thomas Pub
 ROBINSON-Howard Mark. Our Howie, 27, tragically killed in an automobile accident on April 10, in Orlando, FL. Most beloved son of Harriett and Jeff; loving brother of Joni (Steven) Helfman; proud uncle of Danny. Howie leaves his grandmother Helen (Hy) Reiter, aunt Ellen Leibowitz, uncle Ste
 RUBACK-Robert I.  On April, 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Marsha, Karen and Mark. Cherished Popy of Erica and Dana. Loving brother of Clara and Lillian. Services Monday, 12:00 noon at ''Gutterman's'', 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, Long Island. In lieu of flow
 RUBEL-Leon A. On April 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Jean Solodar. Survived by daughters Myra and Maxine and step-sons John and Donald Solodar. Dear brother of Bernie and his wife Altha. Uncle of Starr Nass, Steven Rosenzweig and Meri Ziev and other nieces and nephews. Service Monday, 12:30 P
 SHAW-Ray. Broadway singer and nightclub entrepreneur, died of congestive heart failure on March 24. He was 71. Shaw is survived by his wife Carole, daughters Lori and Victoria, and grandchildren Joshua, Drew and Logan.       
 SIEGAL-Saul I. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Loving father of Roberta and Michael, son-in-law, Robert and daughter-in-law, Jan. Devoted grandfather of Aaron, Rebeca, Nora, Nathan and Jacob. Teacher, Chairman, Principal, Superintendent, NYC schools, Professor of Education, C.W. Post University
 THORNTON-Joseph. Died on April 10, 1998. The residents of 44 W. 10 St. and the Schwenger family express their sorrow at the untimely passing of our beloved Joe. He was the heart and soul of 44 W. 10 St. and he enriched the lives of all who knew him.       
 HOWARD-Jack Rohe. A memorial gathering with his family will be held on Tuesday, April 14th, from 4:30-7:30PM at the Sky Club, 200 Park Ave, 56th Floor, NYC.       
 VAHEY-Eugene E. For all of those who shared in his life and in his death, in prayer, with a story, with a tear, or with love, our family extends our sincere appreciation. Carole, Mary, Hugh, Deborah, Doris, Katherine, Patricia, Eileen and Thomas       
 Allen Murray Myers, a justice of State Supreme Court from 1976 to 1988 who mounted a widely noted protest over an antiquated public school in the 1950's, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, 
 Francis Bergan, a former New York State Court of Appeals judge and member of commissions formed to consider revisions to the State Constitution, died on March 23 at the Teresian House, a nursing home in Albany, his hometown. He was 95. At the 1938 Constitutional Convention he drafte
 Harry Torczyner, an international lawyer, art collector and writer who championed the causes of Israel and his native Belgium, died on March 26 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87. Through museum and gallery exhibits Mr. Torczyner helped introduce a wider American public
 FRACHIONI-Frederick T. Passed away suddenly at his home in Troy, NY, on Friday, April 10,1998. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Moyer Frachioni; father of Michael of Pittsburgh, Matthew of Auburn, AL, Mark of Troy and Martin of Rochester. Brother of Ida Shields of Whitestone and grandfather of 
 KATZ-Arthur Loeb. Our darling Arthur died April 12, 1998, peacefully at home. He was the loving husband of Shirley, the cherished father of Lawrence and Janet, loving mentor to Andrew, Diane, Lisa, Jeffrey and Howard, and beloved grandfather of Todd, Sarah, Jeremy, Jonathan, Rashi and Mira.
 MITOFSKY-Joel. The Partners of London Terrace Gardens mourn the tragic passing of Joel and his daughter, Jenna. Our thoughts and condolences are wth his wife, Joyce and their daughters Ilysa and Lara who must find strength in the fact that Joel and Jenna loved them very much. Joel the couns
 REILLY-Peter M. J. Age 84, of Singer Island, FL, formerly of Manhattan and Islip, NY, died of heart disease April 11, 1998. Husband of Valerie Clayton Reilly and the late Maureen McManus Reilly. He is survived by his children Peter M. J. Reilly, Jr., of Islip, NY, Mary Jo Essaye of Vero Bea
 RUBACK-Robert I. On April, 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Marsha, Karen and Mark. Cherished Popy of Erica and Dana. Loving brother of Clara and Lillian. Services Monday, 12:00 noon at ''Gutterman's'', 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, Long Island. In lieu of flowe
 RUBEL-Leon A. On April 9, 1998. Beloved husband of Jean Solodar. Survived by daughters Myra and Maxine and step-sons John and Donald Solodar. Dear brother of Bernie and his wife Altha. Uncle of Starr Nass, Steven Rosenzweig and Meri Ziev and other nieces and nephews. Service Monday, 12:30 P
 STEINER-Malcolm. On April 11 in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Betty. Dear father of Lawrence and Nanci and the late Susan. Adored grandfather of Jennifer and Jeffrey. Services Monday, 1PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. In lieu of flowers, contrib
 VENETOS-Lorca Alexander. Age 24, on April 9, 1998. Beloved son of George and Nancy. Brother of Jason and Ezra. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM with service Tuesday 4 PM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memo
 Perrin H. Long Jr., a pioneering analyst of brokerage firms whose independent and original views alternately infuriated and charmed Wall Street's titans, died on Wednesday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 70 years old. The cause was the effects of a stroke that Mr. Lon
 Alex Ritchie, a British balloonist who clambered atop an airborne balloon's gondola last year to jettison fuel tanks, halting a crash-dive, died on Saturday at Middlesex Hospital in London. He was 52 and had been undergoing treatment at the hospital since January. The cause of death
 Chandler (Buss) Hovey Jr., a yachtsman whose family ties brought a lifelong involvement with America's Cup racing, but whose personal kinship with sailboats helped him adjust to an enduring disability, died last Thursday at his home in Ocean Reef, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Hovey died of c
 COOK-Rabbi Samuel, 91. Died in Cincinnati, on April 12. His great distinctiveness was directing NFTY-National (now N. Amer.) Federation of Temple Youth. Developed by the Union of American Hebrew Congregations to maintain Jewish affiliation of young Jews, NFTY itself became the driving force
 EDGELL-Douglas C. Brookside, NJ, died Friday in Atlanta, GA. Death was the result of a massive head injury. A second generation publishing executive, Doug Edgell was born in Greenwich, CT in 1951. His father Robert Edgell, a longtime publishing executive served as vice-chairman of Harcourt 
 FIORE-Alfred Emil. On April 12, 1998, of Great Neck, New York. Loving father of Donna, Richard and Andrea. Also survived by his wife Florence and 5 grandchildren. Beloved brother of Gloria Elbrecht and Roland Fiore. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Boulevard, Manhass
 FREDERICK-Philip, 86, a resident of Palm Beach, Florida, and Westhampton Beach, NY, died Monday April 13, in Syracuse, New York. Beloved husband of Rosalyn, dear father of Malyne Sagerman, and Martin Frederick. Father-in-law of Erica Frederick, and Dr. Robert Sagerman. Devoted grandfather o
 GEER-Dr. E. Throop Jr. (Bob). Age 79, of Riverside, CT, died April 12, 1998. Husband of Viola C. Geer. He is survived by one daughter, Suzanne C. Geer, and three sons, John C. Geer, E. Throop Geer III, and Christopher M. Geer. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, April 18 at 2 PM, S
 GERSON-Leon. We mourn his passing on Sunday, April 12th in his one hundred and first year. Beloved husband of the late Charlotte Gerson, beloved father of Elaine and Bernard Dov Troy and Lenore and Irwin Gerson. Proud grandfather & great grandfather. A great Hebraist and Ba-al Koreh, whose 
 MITOFSKY-Joel A. The members and staff of Mitofsky & Shapiro remember their beloved friend, Joel Mitofsky, and his daughter Jenna. All our love is with his wife, Joyce and daughters Ilysa and Lara. Although our hearts and lives have been forever touched, ''the music never stops''.       
 REILLY-Peter M.J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Peter M.J. Reilly,, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 RIGGIO-Christopher Michael. Son of Drs. Maureen A. Relland and Robert R. Riggio, died at the age of 27 on April 12th, 1998, from complications related to the therapy of Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. He was an alumnus of the Fleming School, Horace Mann H.S. and Skidmore College. A private funeral 
 STEINER-Malcolm. On April 11 in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Betty. Dear father of Lawrence and Nanci and the late Susan. Adored grandfather of Jennifer and Jeffrey. Services were held Monday, April 13. STEINER-Malcolm. For more than 30 years, Malcolm Steiner was a valued and d
 THATCHER-Edwin D. Born February 21, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY. Died April 7, 1998. He is survived by his wife, Pauline. Mr. Thatcher attended Brooklyn Friends School and Princeton University, Class of 1936. He practiced architecture in Manhattan and was a member of the AIA. He was buried at Gree
 UMANS-Kenneth R. Of Centerport, NY passed away suddenly on April 10, 1998. He was very much beloved and survived by his wife Jackie; his daughter Dominique; parents Lilian and Larry Umans; brother Jay; and sister Terry Umans Gough. He was a towering mountain of strength, caring and generous
 WEINSTOCK-Irving. On April 12, 1998. Loving husband of 58 years to Rita (nee Schwartz). Beloved father of Stephen, Joan and Teri. Caring grandfather of Robert, Eric, Jonathan, Douglas and Amanda. Dear father-in-law of Susan, Bruce and Michael. Loving brother of Julia Feinberg. A caring and 
 WHITING-Lawrence H. Jr. Died April 11, 1998 at his home in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin. Beloved husband of Lois. Cherished father of Larry, Alison, Susan, Boyd and Eleanor. Grandfather of five. Devoted brother of Henrietta Vieta, and Barbara W. Lee. Services Wednesday, April 15, 9:30AM at Haase-
 WOLF-Harry. Devoted husband to Esther for 51 years. Loving father of Bob and Diane, father-inlaw of Penny Domow, grandfather of Erica and Jonathan. A selfmade man with a wonderfully warm, humorous and down-toearth manner. He will be greatly missed. Funeral services to be held on Thursday, A
 Rozz Williams, a songwriter and musician who founded the 17-year-old Gothic rock group Christian Death, died on April 1 at his home in West Hollywood, Calif. He was 34. The cause was suicide by hanging, said a spokesman for his record label, Triple X. In the 1980's, as a spl
 Tom Cora, a cellist, composer and improviser who was a mainstay of the new-music scene in New York City, died on Thursday at a hospital in Draguignan, in the south of France, where he lived with his wife and son. He was 44. The cause was melanoma, said his brother, Henry Corra.     
 Bahi Ladgham, who as Prime Minister of Tunisia became the head of an Arab committee formed in 1970 to make peace between the Jordanian Government and Palestinian guerrillas, died on Monday. He was 85 and lived in Tunis. He had been under treatment at a hospital in Paris recently, th
 Cozy Powell, a rock drummer known for his work with leading classic rock and heavy-metal groups, died on April 7 in Bristol, England. He was 50. The cause was a car crash, said a spokesman for Mr. Powell. A highly respected drummer who could be both subtle and brash, technic
 Maurice H. Stans, a former Commerce Secretary and fund-raiser in the Nixon administration who pleaded guilty to accepting illegal campaign contributions in the Watergate scandal, died of heart failure yesterday in Pasadena, Claif. He was 90. Toni Miller, a spokeswoman for Huntington
 COOK-Rabbi Samuel. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors & Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Rabbi Samuel Cook, the beloved father of Prof. Michael Cook, a member of our Cinc
 DRAGUTSKY-Dr. David. For fifty-nine years, beloved husband of Leonara (nee Lasner), devoted father of Karen and Larry Bilsky, and Joan and Sumner Fishbein, cherished grandfather of Amy Fishbein, Jamie and Kevin Bilsky, dear brother of Joseph and Murray. Loving uncle, brother-in-law, loyal f
 KASS-Philip. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Judith Schindler, Assoc. Rabbi       
 MURRAY-Roger F. The Board of Trustees, Headmaster, Faculty, Staff, and the entire Collegiate School community mourn the loss of our Distinguished Alumnus and Life Trustee, Dr. Roger F. Murray 2nd'28. A dedicated educator who believed strongly in the importance of pre-college education, Dr. 
 PULVER-Howard. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 TEITELBAUM-Robert P. On April 13th, 1998 of a heart attack. He was 68. Beloved father of Bonnie, Sheila and Barry. Cherished father-in-law to Steven and Paul. Adored ''Papa Bobby'' to grandsons Daniel and Jayson. Mr. Teitelbaum was the Sr. Managing Director at the brokerage firm of Ladenbur
 WEINSTOCK-Irving. On April 12, 1998. Loving husband of 58 years to Rita (nee Schwartz). Beloved father of Stephen, Joan and Teri. Caring grandfather of Robert, Eric, Jonathan, Douglas and Amanda. Dear father-in-law of Susan, Bruce and Michael. Loving brother of Julia Feinberg. A caring and 
 Sir Ian MacGregor, the unyielding industrialist who forced Britain's coal miners to capitulate after their long and bitter strike in the mid 1980's, died on Monday while visiting friends in Somerset, England. He was 85. The cause of death was a heart attack. Alternately hail
 Ivan Tcherepnin, a composer and for 25 years the director of Harvard University's Electronic Music Studio, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 55. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Tcherepnin was descended from musicians 
 CHOQUET-Claude, 73. Died April 6, 1998 in New York Hospital after a long illness. An outstanding graduate of The Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris, he first came to the U.S. in 1954, and taught French for a year at Yale before joining the faculty of the Lycee Francais de New York as a teach
 FITZPATRICK-Edward J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Edward J. Fitzpatrick, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian 
 FLYNN-James M. Beloved son of the late Matthew and Mary (nee Reid). Loving brother of Sean F. and Maureen P. Hickey. Dear cousin of Gerald Judge. Cherished uncle and great uncle. Funeral Saturday, 8:45 AM from the Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Quentin Rd., Bklyn. Mass Our Lady Help of Chri
 GLADSTONE-Milton. Congregation Kol Ami of White Plains, New York records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member, and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Cantor Annie Bornstein-Howard Mark A. Hershey, President       
 GROSSMAN-Harold. On April 10, 1998. Loving husband of Gloria, beloved father of Sandy, caring grandfather of Rikki and Ross and dear brother of Ralph. It can be said that Harold Grossman had an active, productive life with its share of satisfying moments, mostly because he had the opportuni
 JONES-Howard H. Passed away March 16, 1998 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Mr. Jones was born May 15, 1908 to John Jones and Lillian Spindler in New York City. Mr. Jones graduated from Concordia Seminary in St. Louis, and was a veteran of World War II. Mr. Jones retired as Vice Chairman of the Board
 JUROW-Irving H. Died peacefully on Friday, April 10, 1998 at his home in Chevy Chase, MD., in his 93rd year. He is survived by his wife of 69 years, Mae Wechsler Jurow. He is also survived by his sister, Edna J. Hirst of New York City, his brother Martin Jurow of Dallas TX, four nieces: Ell
 KANZER-Mark, MD. A noted psychoanalyst, author and educator, died April 14th at the King Street Nursing Home in Rye Brook, NY of congestive heart failure at the age of 89. In 1994, shortly after Dr. Kanzer's retirement, the Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association published a trib
 KREMER-Charles P. In his 97th year after a brief illness. Beloved father of David, Jerry and Suzan. Grandfather of Nora and Howard, Robin and Fred, Katherine, Lindsey, Marc and Rick and Mindy. Great-grandfather of Benjamin, Brett, Gabrielle, Jenna, Justin and Sam. A wonderful warmhearted ma
 MANN-Louis Dietre. Beloved husband of Margot. Father of Helen Gross and Bobby. Grandfather of Debra. Brother of Anneli Lax, father-in-law of Michael, brotherin-law of Peter. Uncle of Jim. Traveler, linguist, egalitarian, skier, Francophile, scholar, musician, W.W. II veteran, survivor and a
 MURRAY-Dr. Roger F. II, 86. Born in New York City, died on April 13, 1998 in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire. Husband of Agnes McDede Murray, Wolfeboro, N.H., father of Roger F. Murray III and his wife, Linda T. Murray, Wolfeboro, NH; grandfather of Jennifer A. Murray, Boston, MA., Deborah M. Murr
 PERSKY-Raphael. Beloved husband of Pearl and brother of Sam and Murray. Loving father to Orrin, Amy and Shira. Cherished grandfather of Raanan, Tadmor, Eldad, Ehud, Merav, Noam, Elayna, Michal, Briana, Benjamin, Talia and Yael. Wonderful father-inlaw to Ariella, Phil and Steve. His family w
 VINEIS-Norman Demetrius. Age 83, long-time advertising agency and art studio principal died on Tuesday, April 14, 1998. Mr. Vineis was a co-founder of Monogram Art Studios; founder of Norman Affiliates Ltd. and the Vineis-Mead Agencies. He specialized in the field of creative pharmaceutical
 Phil R. North, a journalist and former president, chairman and chief executive of the Tandy Corporation between 1978 and 1981, died Sunday in All Saints Episcopal Hospital in Fort Worth, after a long illness. He was 79. A journalist with The Fort Worth Star-Telegram from 1937 to 196
 German Emilio Ornes, the influential publisher of the newspaper El Caribe in the Dominican Republic and a longtime champion of freedom of the press in Latin America, died on Tuesday at his home in Santo Domingo, the Dominican capital. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, The Ass
 James B. Conkling, a music and broadcasting executive who helped create the Grammy Awards and the Columbia Record Club, died on Sunday at the Sutter Oaks Alzheimer's Hospital in Sacramento, Calif., where he had been living. He was 83. The cause was pneumonia and diabetes, said his w
 Marvin S. Gilman, a builder and developer for nearly 50 years in New York, Maryland and Delaware, died April 8 in the Christiana Hospital in Wilmington, Del., where he had undergone surgery for a staphylococcus infection. He was 76 years old and had been living in Wilmington. Mr. Gi
 Pol Pot, who created in Cambodia one of the 20th century's most brutal and radical regimes, died on Wednesday of heart failure, according to his Cambodian jailers. He was 73 years old. Already enfeebled from malaria, Pol Pot had become seriously ill in recent months while under hous
 The Rev. Louis A. Saunders, who spent half a century as such a quietly dedicated minister, missionary and religious official that he became known chiefly for a single, instinctive act of Christian duty, died on April 5 at his home in suburban Dallas. He was 88 and the man who gave Lee Harve
 Roger F. Murray 2d, an economist whose financial acumen made him a frequent adviser to members of Congress and business leaders during the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday at his home in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 86. The cause was cardiac arrest, according to the Lord Funeral Home in Wo
 Marvin E. Wolfgang, who found new ways of looking at and thinking about crime and criminals, died on Sunday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 73 and a professor of criminology at Penn and the president of the American Academy of Political and Social S
 BRODSKY-Andrew. In his 79th year. On April 16th, at his home, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sivia, loving father of Ann and Greg, father-in-law of Bob and Leigh Anne, devoted grandfather of Allison, Daniel and Jake. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, April 19, 12:30PM at 
 DARLING-Robert C., M.D. Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center mourns the passing of our colleague, Robert C. Darling, M.D. He began his long, distinguished career at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center as a medical intern in 1935. In 1945, he joined the faculty of Columbia University Colleg
 KELLERMAN-Murray. Beloved husband for 59 years of Florence; devoted father of Steven, Martin and Susan; adoring grandfather of Jenny, Anna, David and Andrew; loving father-in-law of Isabel, Nancy and Wil and dearest brother of Sylvia Levine. A self made man, who founded and was president of
 KOENIG-Irving. August 2, 1919April 15, 1998. We mourn the loss of our beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather, CPA, attorney and World War II veteran, caring, generous, witty, passionate in his beliefs, honorable in business and in personal affairs. Leah Koenig (wife), Karen Schoch
 LEVIT-Morris. Of Larchmont, New York, died on April 15. He is survived by his wife Sylvia and three children Peter, Linda, Robert, and two grandchildren. He has two daughters-in-law, Lucia and Kathy, and one son-in-law Per. Services will be held Sunday, April 19, at 1 PM at John J. Fox Fune
 PORTE-Sheldon H. The entire Nassau Association for the Help of Retarded Children family mourns the death of Sheldon H. Porte. A long time board member, Shelly, was always the first to volunteer to lend a hand. His warmth and good humor touched everyone around him. He was a strong advocate a
 RATNER-Frank, M.D. The members of the Medical Society of the County of Queens express their profound sadness on the loss of their beloved colleague and friend, Frank Ratner, M.D. A distinguished and dedicated physician, Dr. Ratner proved to be a steadfast leader as he served the society as 
 RUBIN-Sherwood. Died April 14, 1998. Beloved husband to Gloria. Devoted brother to Elaine Gesang and Fleurette Levine. Loved by his nieces and nephews. He will be sorely missed.       
 WIECHE-Dr. Robert E. Died April 15, 1998, in Scottsdale, AZ., from injuries in an auto accident. He will be sorely missed by Wilma, Bandit, Skip, Mouse, Ruffles, Steeler, Grady, Annie, the foal-to-come, and all who knew and loved him.       
 Jack Hyde, a fashion journalist who taught at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York, died on March 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 81 and lived in Greenwich Village. At his death, Mr. Hyde was an adjunct assistant professor in the advertising and ma
 L. Clure Morton, a retired Federal chief judge in Tennessee who furthered racial integration in Nashville's public schools and prompted reforms in the state's mental health, welfare and prison systems, died on April 11 at the University of Tennessee Hospital in his native Knoxville. He was 
 BRODSKY-Andrew. In his 79th year. On April 16th, at his home, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sivia, loving father of Ann and Greg, father-in-law of Bob and Leigh Anne, devoted grandfather of Allison, Daniel and Jake. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, April 19, 12:30PM at 
 CLOPTON-Benjamin H. Died of AIDS on April 16, 1998. Ben is survived by his loving partner, Keith Pajkowski of Manhattan, his loving parents Ned and Marcia Clopton of Chevy Chase, MD., and his brothers Bryan, Geoffrey and Marc. Mr. Clopton, a painter and sculptor, lived in Manhattan for 15 y
 COLLINS-Mark M. Of Millbrook, NY. April 16, 1998. Mr. Collins graduated from Groton School in 1949 and Harvard in 1953. He was captain of the Groton football team and president of the AD Club at Harvard. He served in the US Marine Corps as a second lieutenant in the 2nd Armored Amphibian Ba
 DARLING-Robert C., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University mourn the passing of Dr. Darling on April 13, 1998 and extend our condolences to his family. Dr. Darling was the first Simon Baruch Professor o
 EMANUEL-Elias. West End Temple, Neponsit, NY, mourns the death of a dedicated long-time member. The Elias and Pauline Emanuel Library of the Temple indicates our respect of him. We join with his wife Pauline, son Matthew, and family in sorrow. Rabbi Joseph I. Weiss Sylvan Klein, President  
 GOLDBERG-Harriet D. On April 18, 1998. Beloved wife of Victor J. Goldberg. Loving mother of Susan Goldberg Gevertz and Alan Jay Goldberg. Mother-in-law of John Neil Gevertz and Karen Beth Lipson. Adoring grandmother of Rebecca Caitlin Gevertz, Annie Elizabeth Gevertz and Jonah Samuel Goldbe
 GRAVES-Bradford. July 26, 1939 April 16, 1998. Sculptor, musician, teacher, loving and beloved person. Brad took his inspiration from his love of art and creativity's limitless forms. He gave his unique synthesis to us all through his generous desire to share the gifts of his life. Born in 
 JOSEPH-Samuel, died April 15, 1998, 90 years old in Bethesda, MD. Born in Paterson, NJ. Married to Helen Kronenberg (deceased), an artist. A lawyer and CPA specializing in public utility rate regulation. Chief Economist for the Federal Power Commission during World War II. Partner at H. Zin
 KOENIG-Irving. August 2, 1919April 15, 1998. We mourn the loss of our beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather, CPA, attorney and World War II veteran, caring, generous, witty, passionate in his beliefs, honorable in business and in personal affairs. Leah Koenig (wife), Karen Schoch
 KUCHLER-Ira. 90, of Rockville Centre and West Palm Beach, FL, on April 17, 1998. A noted Long Island architect, whose work consisted of designing both commercial and residential buildings. He was a graduate of Boys High School (Brooklyn) and New York University School of Architecture. Mr. K
 OSWALD-William E., 59. Passed from this life on April 8 due to complications from lung cancer. He will be sorely missed by Tom Skews and Charles McGlinnen, his partners in business and life. Bill was known to many in the display industry as an example of a true gentleman and friend. Due to 
 RABINOWITZ-Dr. Nathan, D.D.S. On April 15, in his 90th year, at home in Yorktown Heights, NY. Formerly of Kew Gardens, NY. Beloved husband of Miriam, who died in 1997. Father of Edward, Daniel and Amy. Grandfather of Aaron, Jesse, Jake, Joshua and Emma.       
 RATNER-Frank. On April 16, 1998, after a six month battle with Leukemia. Beloved husband of Helen, loving father of Jill, Beth and Lee and their spouses Joel Rosenberg, David Lyons and Andrea Ratner and grandfather of Sam, Naomi, Andrew, Michael, Monica, Jane, Stephen, Nicole and Jennifer, 
 RINALDI-Anthony F., Ph.D. Our deepest sorrow for all of Anthony's family on the loss of a most amazing and courageous man. He will live in our hearts and souls forever and always. Janet and Bob       
 SIMMONS-Leonard. Dear son of Lorraine and Henry Simmons. Dear brother of Robin Bell, Judith Caliano and the late Deborah Simmons. Interment in Binghamton, New York. At peace at last. SIMMONS-Leonard. At peace, at last. Loving condolences to his parents, Lorraine and Henry and sister
 SIMPSON-William Douglas. Former international vice president, Sterling Drug Company, died April 16, 1998, in Briarcliff Manor, New York at age 89. Devoted husband of Alayne, he was an avid sportsman with many trophies in golf, hunting and fly fishing. Born in Scotland and educated in Chile,
 SKEIST-Dr. Irving. A talented polymer chemist, an accomplished musician, the founder and buiilder of a global consulting business, a writer, editor and speaker of clarity and humor, a patient teacher to siblings, his children, grandchildren, employees and customers. A loving husband to Doro
 STATHAKIS-George N. On April 15, 1998. Beloved son of Nicholas and Loula, devoted brother of Demetrius and Steven and Athena Helriegel. Loving uncle. Reposing Perrazzo Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker St, NYC, Sunday, 6-9pm. Funeral services will be held at Holy Trintiy Greek Cathedral, 319 East 
 TEITELBAUM-Robert P. On April 13th, 1998 of a heart attack. He was 68. Beloved father of Bonnie, Sheila and Barry. Cherished father-in-law to Steven, Paul and Michael. Adored ''Papa Bobby'' to grandsons Daniel and Jayson. Mr. Teitelbaum was the Sr. Managing Director at the brokerage firm of
 Rabbi Samuel Cook, who built the youth affiliate of American Reform Judaism into a national force with 20,000 members in about 500 branches around the country, died last Sunday at the Brookwood retirement community in suburban Cincinnati. He was 91. He led the teen-age movement of t
 Terry Sanford, who lowered racial barriers as Governor of North Carolina in the 1960's, setting the style for a new kind of Southern politician, and later became a United States Senator and Presidential candidate, died today at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 80. The cause was compl
 William Burwell Fitzgerald, a Washington community leader and an entrepreneur who over 30 years built a small thrift institution into one of the country's largest black-owned businesses, died on Monday at Inova Fairfax Hospital in Washington. He was 65 and lived in Washington. The c
 William G. Congdon, an American painter well known in the 1950's and 60's for his painterly fusion of abstraction and representation and his depiction of religious themes, died of a heart attack on Wednesday, his 86th birthday, in a hospital in Milan, Italy. He had a home in Milan and had l
 Alberto Calderon, one of the leading mathematicians of the last half-century, died on Thursday in Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 77 and was professor emeritus of mathematics at the University of Chicago and lived in Chicago. Mr. Calderon was known for his contribu
 Andrei Svetlichny, whose ability to coax gorgeous tones from concert grands made him indispensable as a personal tuner for distinguished pianists, died on April 12 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 41 and the chief concert technician and manager of technical services for th
 George Howard, a soprano saxophonist who was a mainstay of the smooth-jazz radio format, died on March 22 at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 41. The cause was cancer, said Chris Wheat, a publicity agent at GRP records. Mr. Howard grew up in Philadelphia. After classical
 John Barkham, a prolific book reviewer who could deliver a stream of four, five or six reviews a week in his heyday, died on April 15 at a nursing home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Barkham reviewed thousands of books over half a century. He concentrated on contemporary history a
 CHASE-Rev. William James. Died Saturday, April 11, 1998, at home in East Hampton, NY. He was 82 years old. Rev. Chase was born in Boston in 1915, to Herbert and Ethel Chase. He was the eldest of three sons. He graduated from Hamilton College in 1936, and the Episcopal Theological Seminary i
 JOSEPH-Samuel, died April 15, 1998, 90 years old in Bethesda, MD. Born in Paterson, NJ. Married to Helen Kronenberg (deceased), an artist. A lawyer and CPA specializing in public utility rate regulation. Chief Economist for the Federal Power Commission during World War II. Partner at H. Zin
 KANZER-Mark. The Officers and Members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York express their deep sense of loss at the death of Dr. Mark Kanzer. Charter member and former president of PANY, admired teacher, and beloved friend, his leadership and inspiration will be dearly missed. Our s
 MARLOW-David. His partner, colleagues and friends in the insurance industry offer their condolences to Ann, Marc and Ian, and his family.       
 SALVATO-Donald. Painter, architect, inventor and innkeeper. Loving husband, father and friend. Don died Saturday, April 18, at his home in Millbrook, NY. Born in the Bronx, he was a graduate of DeWitt Clinton and Pratt Institute. A unique New Yorker of the most special kind, Don will be mis
 SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel. On April 19, in his 89th year. Husband of Sadie, father of Lorraine S. Dauber and the late Dr. Jerrold Silverstein, grandfather of Paul Dauber, Jane D. Lewittes, and Daniel Dauber, great-grandfather of Joshua and Jack Lewittes, and brother of the late Max and Samue
 STEVENS-Bayard M. Age 82 on April 15 in Vero Beach, FL, formerly of Bay Head, NJ. Beloved by his wife, Mary; his children, Elizabeth and Bayard; his grandson, Nathaniel and his sister, Nancy.       
 Terry Sanford, who lowered racial barriers as Governor of North Carolina in the 1960's, setting the style for a new kind of Southern politician, and later became a United States senator and Presidential candidate, died today at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 80. The cause was compl
 Archbishop Trevor Huddleston, a British Anglican who spent years fighting apartheid in South Africa and helped make its abuses widely known, died in northern England yesterday, the Church of England announced. He was 84. Reuters reported that he suffered from diabetes. Thoug
 Octavio Paz, Mexico's premier poet and essayist and one of the towering men of letters in the second half of this century, died on Sunday at a temporary residence in Mexico City. He was 84. President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico announced the death early yesterday as he was returning f
 BEERMANN-James. On April 19, 1998. Survived by his wife Ellen McGauley, his daughter and sonin-law, Ruth and Ron Krugler and their children Alexandra and Michael, his daughter and son-in-law Elizabeth and Brett Lincoln, and their children Lauren and Kyle, and his son John Beermann and daugh
 CAREY-Peter R. On April 18, 1998, at Christ Home, Warminster, PA, age 85. Born in Montclair, New Jersey in 1912, he was the son of Leo and Anna Carey and grandson of Peter J. Carey, KCSG, founder of PJ Carey & Sons, a large NY printing and lithography firm. Carey got his start in the family
 CHASE-Rev. William. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Reverend William J. Chase. He was a beloved and revered spiritual leader who founded Roosevelt Hospital's Chaplain Program and enlisted the support of local houses of worship in order to serv
 FARAGO-Lenke Gyongyi (nee Leon) of Albany, NY, on April 20, 1998. Beloved wife of George Farago, loving aunt of Ivan Vamos and his wife Rita. Good friend of Mary Dickerman of Albany, sister of Henry Leon of Los Angeles, CA. Services at the Levine Memorial Chapel, 649 Washington Ave., Albany
 FISHER-Mark Allen, age 47, peacefully, after a long illness. He was the beloved son of Rhoda and Harold Fisher, cherished brother of Marty and Kathi Fisher, Ellen Fisher and Judy and Marc Ehrlich, a wonderful uncle to Allison, Rachel and Joel, dear nephew and cousin, and was blessed with ma
 FRIEDLAND-Jerry. The staff of Ambassador Construction mourns the loss of a most beloved member of our corporate family. Jerry was with us since 1977 and, as our Executive Vice-President, was instrumental in helping us grow from a tiny clan of 12 to the tight knit dynasty we are today, while
 GOLDFARB-Herbert. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LEE-David Henry. On April 19, 1998, in his 89th year. Long time resident of Greenwich Village. Survived by his beloved wife Gertrude, devoted daughters Adrienne (Ronald) Stone, Karen (David) Kaufman and Margaret (Steven) Lowell, adored grandchildren Anthony Balsley, Julianne Stone, Jeffrey 
 LEWIN-Edith. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected leader of the London Jewish community, beloved wife of Manfred Lewin and sister of Kurt (and Edith) Rothschild of Toronto. Mr. Rothschild, an honorary alumnus, is a trustee of the University's affiliated Rabbi Isaa
 MORISHIMA-Akira, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Pediatrics. The Department of Pediatrics of the College of Physicians & Surgeons at Columbia University and the Pediatric Service and Alumni Association of Babies & Children's Hospital of New York, ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center, mourn t
 PALMER-Alan. October 3, 1930April 17, 1998. Beloved brother of Kathleen Chalfant, uncle of David and Andromache Chalfant and adored and essential friend to Joanne Beretta, John Ryckman, Ruben Medina, Muffie Meier, Ann Eliaser, Lon Ramlan, John Loschman, Tim McGuire, Ken Ruta, Henry Chalfant
 RINALDI-Anthony F., Ph.D. A beloved friend who will be greatly missed and forever in our hearts. Our deepest condolences to his family. Donna and Craig       
 SHIMOFF-Ephraim, Rabbi (Dr.). We mourn with great sorrow the loss of a fellow Trustee. As rabbi, educator and dedicated Torah scholar, he will be missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to wife, Shirley. The Society of Kukin Fellows Rabbi Alvin Marcus, Exec Dir Trustees Dr. Norman Samuels,
 SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel I. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary extend heartfelt condolences to Sadie Silverstein, beloved wife of our eminent RIETS trustee, and their children, Lorraine (and Dr. Leonard) Dauber, grandchildren, and great-grandchil
 WHITE-Ewart John, Jr. A long time resident of Princeton, New Jersey, and a 1942 graduate of Princeton University. He passed away April 17, 1998 in Phippsburg, ME. Mr. White served in the U.S. Army during W.W.II in Germany and France. His career achievements included promoting the internatio
 ZUGER-Dr. Bernard. On April 19, age 92. Practicing pediatrician and psychiatrist in New York City for more 60 years. Born in Ludmir, Russia, on September 20, 1905. Son of Mendel and Adell. Brother of Max, Ira and Joe. Graduate of Columbia College and Columbia University's College of Physici
 Robert H. Mulreaney, a retired senior law partner in Manhattan and a former chairman of the Community Service Society of New York, died on April 12 at the King James Care Center in Chatham Township, N.J. He was 82 and a former resident of Summit and Westfield, N.J. Mr. Mulreaney hea
 Gardner Dickinson, a founder of the Senior PGA Tour, a standout in Ryder Cup events and a seven-time winner on the PGA Tour with a knack for teaching other golfers, died on Sunday at his home in Tequesta, Fla. He was 70. Dickinson died after a long illness, said his wife, Judy, a fo
 BISCEGLIA-Frank J., 83. Died at his residence in Nashville, TN, on April 21, 1998, after a long illness. He was born in Rye, NY, and lived in Westchester County until moving to Nashville in 1992. He was a veteran of the Army Air Force and served during W.W. II in the African and European Th
 BRALOWER-William ''Hoot.'' Of Old Brookville, NY. With his usual wit and determination, celebrated his 80th birthday on April 16th. Died peacefully April 20. Devoted grandfather and father, wonderful husband and loving brother, he is survived by his wife, BeBe, sons and daughters-in-law, Ja
 COOK-John Miller 'Jack'. On April 20, 1998. Of Bethlehem, Penn. Age 70. Cook served as Executive Director of Northampton County Development Corp., Easton, Penn., from 1985 until 1997. He was previously employed in the Transportation Department of the Bethlehem Steel Corp. for 34 years at va
 DONOGHUE-Thomas F., Jr., 69. Of Stamford on Monday at Stamford Hospital. Survivors include his wife, Virginia C. Donoghue, two daughters, Kathleen D. Addazio, Maryann Donoghue, three sons, Thomas F. III, Michael E. and Edward J. Donoghue, five grandchildren and 2 step-grandchildren. He was 
 ELLIOTT-Barbara. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Isamu Noguchi Foundation, Inc. extend their deepest sympathy to trustee Donald Elliott for the loss of his wife, Barbara. We shall miss her as will the musical world which she so passionately supported. Our thoughts and prayers ar
 FRAGER-Jack (Yankel). On March 7, 1998 at 95, peacefully in his sleep after a long decline. Born in the Ukraine, he witnessed the Russian Revolution, escaped the Civil War at 18, arriving in the U.S.A. in 1923. He was: a lifelong anarchist, served on Committee to save Sacco and Vanzetti, sp
 GOLDSTEIN - Jack. Fifty - three years. On April 12, 1998. Beloved brother, uncle and friend. Devoted attorney in private practice in New York City. Greatly loved for his humanity and humor. He leaves a deep void in our lives.       
 GUNZBURG-Charles. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Charles Gunzburg, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Elise, and son, Adam. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Robert Fensterman, Secretary       
 KIRKHAM-Richard George. Born in Hartford CT, June 5, 1931. Died Coral Gables FL, April 19, 1998. Survived by his sister Elizabeth Buckley of Eliot ME, and his longtime business partner and great friend Robert Houseman. A graduate of the Chicago Institute of Art, Richard Kirkham founded Kirk
 MAGRO-John L. Of Camden, ME. Loving husband and devoted father. Died Saturday, April 18, 1998 in Camden. He is survived by his wife, Nancy P. Magro; five children, Susan Pfeil of New Canaan, Connecticut; Jonathan Magro of Cincinnati, Ohio; Nancy L. Magro of Brookline, Massachusetts; Victori
 RICHARDS-Harold J., 93, April 20, 1998. Most beloved husband for seventy years of Pam Spingarn, brother of Irving S. Richards, and the late Morton and Florence Lipton. Loving father of Nancy Richards Osman, and Peter S. Richards, cherished grandfather of Deborah Osman Fieber, Elizabeth A. O
 ROLLER-Iser. With deep sorrow we record the demise of our dear benefactor and member of the Board of Governors, Iser Roller, who together with his dear wife, dedicated the Iser and Anne Roller Diningroom and Lecture Hall at Yeshivat Sha' alvim in Israel. Funeral services will be held today 
 SCHNEIDER-Sidney. On April 20. Of NY and Florida. Beloved by his wife Shirley, his daughters Leslee & Maxine, and his grandchildren, Jennifer, Stephanie and Michael. Services at Schwartz Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck on Friday, April 24 at noon.       
 SZEKERES-Janos. Of Stamford, Connecticut. On April 20, 1998, at his home. Survived by his wife Erna Biller Szekeres, 2 daughters, Eva Levine and Andrea Szekeres, a sister Katalin Stapelfeldt, also four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Sunday, April 26th, 4PM at the Unitarian C
 WOLLIN-Michael. A retired Civil Court Judge in Kings County, died on April 17 in Oxford, New York. He was 83 and a former resident of Brooklyn. Mr. Wollin was born in Brooklyn and worked his way through college and Brooklyn Law School. After a thirty year career in private practice, he serv
 ZUGER-Dr. Bernard. On April 19, age 92. Practicing pediatrician and psychiatrist in New York City for more than 60 years. Born in Ludmir, Russia, on September 20, 1905. Son of Mendel and Adell. Brother of Max, Ira and Joe. Graduate of Columbia College and Columbia University's College of Ph
 Constantine Caramanlis, a principled statesman who returned with high drama from self-imposed exile in 1974 to restore democracy to Greece after a repressive seven-year military dictatorship, died early today at a hospital in Athens. He was 91. Mr. Caramanlis was hospitalized on Apr
 Fred Davis, a genial cue shark who smiled his way to eight world professional snooker championships and helped lay the groundwork for the game's raging popularity in Britain, died last Thursday at his hillside farm in Denbigh, North Wales. He was 84 and regarded as the last living link with
 DAVIS-Thomas. The Officers and Members of the New York Joint Board UNITE express their deep sense of loss at the death of Thomas Davis, manager of Neckwear and Accessories Division. He was a veteran of World War II, co-founder and member of Borough Medical Center, former manager of Neckwear
 GOLDFARB-Herbert. The members of the Music Entertainment Media Unit of B'nai B'rith regret the passing of Herb Goldfarb, charter member and former president of the Unit. Our condolences to his wife, Bernice, & the family. Louise E. Dembeck, President       
 GREENHOUSE-George. The staff of Berenter Greenhouse & Webster, extend our most heartfelt condolences to our President, Martin Greenhouse, for the loss of his beloved father, George. Marty's ceaseless devotion to his father during his long illness makes us proud to be associated with such de
 KAY-Manny. Fondest memories. Our heartfelt condolences to Esther, Ira and Kenny. Billie and Irwin KAY (KITROSSER)-Manuel. On April 22, 1998. Beloved husband of Esther. Loving father of Ira and Yvette, Kenneth and Robin. Cherished grandfather to Alexis, Austin and Rosie. Services Thu
 LIEBLING-Walter. On April 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Rita. He will be missed by his many friends and for his devotion and love for music. His compassion for those in need will not be forgotten.       
 NEUMILLER-Thomas G. Professor of Theatre Arts at the State University at Stony Brook, died on April 22, 1998 at his residence in Stony Brook, NY. He was 61 years old, the cause of death was cancer. He was born January 5, 1937, to Harry J. Neumiller and Grace Gridley Meumiller in Peoria, Ill
 OTTMAN-John B, 75 died peacefully on April 21. Beloved husband of Joan (Kennedy), father of Josephine K. and John B., grandfather of three. Memorial service 11am Friday at St. Barnabas Episcopal Church, 954 Lake Avenue, Greenwich. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory to The Merry Go 
 PERGAMENT-Mollie. Of Palm Beach, Florida and Kings Point, NY, on Wednesday, April 22, 1998, at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Louis Pergament. Devoted mother of Murray and Irene, Robert and Lois. Cherished grandmother of Linda and Richard Horowitz, Bruce and Randi Pergament, and the late 
 STONE-Daniel. Died April 21, 1998, in Boca Raton, FL. Survived by his wife, Marion; children, Janet and Andrew; grandchildren, David and Eliza. He was a civil engineer for the state of NY. His warm and loving spirit will live on in our hearts. Gifts may be sent to The Cooper Union, 30 Coope
 WEISSMAN-Irving. Formerly of New Rochelle, New York. Devoted husband of Florence; vigilant, loving father of Beth and Myrna; brother of Grace. Died peacefully in his sleep at home on April 21, 1998. A man who gave freely of his wisdom and advice. Member of Beth Ami Synagogue. Services to be
 LEWIN-Edith. We extend sincerest condolences to Kurt Rothschild on the loss of his beloved sister Edith Lewin. Kurt and Edith Rothschild have personified throughout their lives the most profound values of Jewish tradition. Through Kurt's generosity, vision and leadership as Executive Chairm
 Peter Lind Hayes, an affable, appealing entertainer whose career included work in everything from vaudeville to films, Broadway, nightclubs, radio and television, died on Tuesday in Las Vegas. He was 82. Mr. Hayes had been in failing health and died at the Nathan Adelson Hospice fro
 Calvin F. Craig, an Atlanta construction worker who spent most of the 1960's in fiery opposition to racial desegregation, then abruptly resigned as the head of the Georgia Ku Klux Klan to work for integration, died on April 13 at his home in Newnan, Ga. He was 64 and had later rejoined, the
 Harry Harding, who was executive vice president of the Young & Rubicam advertising agency in the early 1960's and then a senior executive for Time Inc., died April 17 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., following a stroke, his son, Harry Harding Jr., said. He was 94. Mr. Harding 
 James Earl Ray died yesterday at Columbia Nashville Memorial Hospital in Nashville while serving a 99-year sentence for the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. To the end of his life, he tantalized  America with suggestions that his confession to the 1968 murder, which he h
 CONNOLLY-Paul. The faculty, students, trustees, and staff of Bard College mourn the passing of Paul Connolly, who was John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Professor of Humanities and director of the College's Institute for Writing and Thinking. Throughout his career Paul exemplified Bard's tr
 DAVIS-Thomas. The Officers and Members of the New York Joint Board UNITE express their deep sense of loss at the death of Thomas Davis, manager of Neckwear and Accessories Division. He was a veteran of World War II, co-founder and member of Borough Medical Center, former manager of Neckwear
 EISENBERG-Albert. Beloved husband of Gloria, devoted father and father-in-law of Bruce and Gigi Eisenberg, Karen and Larry Goldberg. Dear brother and brother-inlaw of Estelle Gordon and Selma and Mort Sagalow. Adored grandfather of Bradley, Adam, Emily, Erica and Melissa. Loving son-inlaw o
 FINLAY-Terence. The Rev. Dr. Terence J. Finlay died on April 8 at his home in Grimsby, Ontario, Canada. A memorial service will be held for him at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue at 51st Street, New York City, on Monday, April 27 at 11:00 AM. Dr. Finlay served as Rector of St. Barthol
 GERSHEN-Al. Of Hollywood, Fla. Formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of the late Gussie. Devoted father of Syrrel Lehman and Bill and Debra Gershen. Dear brother of Jenny Schiff. Loving grandfather of Darrin, Adam and Connie Lehman, Daniel, Seth and Kim Gershen. Cherished grandfather o
 ISGUR-Irving. Born September 23, 1920 in Brooklyn, New York, died Thursday, April 23, 1998 in San Antonio. Survivors include his wife of 56 years, Helen; sons and daughters-in-law, Stuart and Rebecca Isgur, Robert and Deborah Isgur, Ron and Martha Isgur; grandchildren, Benjamin, Shoshana, J
 LANDAU-Edward (Eddie). Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Meryl and Howard. Father-in-law of Sarah. Loving grandfather of Rebecca, Jacob and Katya. The only member of his immediate family to survive the Holocaust. He joined his parents, Malka and Chaim, brothers Vladek and Simon and
 McGILLIS-Daniel B. April 23 of Milton, MA. Husband of Noreen (Vaughan) McGillis. Father of Patricia McGillis, Alana McGillis, Alec McGillis and Philip Archambault. Funeral Services Saturday in Milton. Contributions in his memory may be sent to the McGillis Trust, 134 M Street, South Boston,
 PROCHASKA-Hans J., M.D. Ph.D. It is with deep sorrow that the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note the death of their dear collealgue and friend, Dr. Hans Prochaska. From 1991 to 1996 Dr. Prochaska was the Head of the Laboratory for Chemical-Biological Interactions at Sloan-
 RYKOWSKI-Frank A. Died peacefully on April 22, 1998, after a yearlong battle with cancer. He is survived by his beloved children, Tony and Pamela Rykowski, his former wife, Jayne M. Kurzman, and a brother, Richard Rykowski. His extraordinary intellect and scholarship, sense of humor and wis
 SAYLOR-James. Died in New York City, April 21. A native of Lexington, KY, he was a special assistant to Nelson Rockefeller, manager Rockefeller Collection, and businessman. He is survived by a sister, nieces and nephews.       
 STITHAM-Michael. Age 55 on April 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee Parmet). Loving father of Hayley and Lawrence. Adored brother of Sarah, Nancy and Judy. Grandfather of Mikey. We will miss you. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St Saturday, 7-9PM and Sun
 ZUGER-Bernard, M.D. The faculty and staff of the Dept of Psychiatry of the NYU School of Medicine mourn the passing of our dear colleague Dr. Bernard Zuger on April 19, 1998. Dr. Zuger, a clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry, joined the faculty in 1958 specializing in Pediatric Psychi
 David Blum, a symphonic conductor and a writer on classical music, died on April 17 at a hospice in Kirkland, Wash., near his home in Bellevue. He was 62. His family said the cause was cancer. Mr. Blum was born in Los Angeles and studied conducting and composition at the Jui
 James Tilton, a scenery and lighting designer whose work was a regular feature of the A.P.A.-Phoenix repertory company during its Off Broadway heyday in the 1960's and early 70's, died last Saturday in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 60 and lived in East Hampton. The cause was cancer, sai
 Jean-Francois Lyotard, an eclectic post-modern French philosopher and prolific author who most recently taught at Emory University in Atlanta, died on Tuesday at Necker Hospital in Paris. He was 73 and divided his time between Paris and Atlanta. The cause was leukemia, the universit
 John Luigi Magro, a Cincinnati businessman who was a patron of the arts and a leading benefactor of Boys Town of Italy, died on April 18 at his home in Camden, Me., where he had retired in 1991. He was 90. Mr. Magro was born in Rochester and graduated from Harvard College in 1932. H
 Owen Bradford Butler, who was chairman of the Procter & Gamble Company for much of the 1980's, died on Tuesday at his home in Denver. He was 74 and the cause of his death was cancer, the company said. Mr. Butler was born in Lynchburg, Va., and joined Procter & Gamble in 1945
 FINLAY-Terence. The Rev. Dr. Terence J. Finlay died on April 8 at his home in Grimsby, Ontario, Canada. A memorial service will be held for him at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue at 51st Street, New York City, on Monday, April 27 at 11:00 AM. Dr. Finlay served as Rector of St. Barthol
 MEYER-John. On April 24. Devoted brother of Fred and Eric. Dear brother-in-law of Ruth and Ursula. Loving uncle of Clifford, Tamara, Cathy, Paul, Jonathan and David. Devoted friend of Peggy, Stuart and Julia. He will always be in our hearts. Services 12:15 PM, Sunday, at ''The Riverside,'' 
 PAPAMARKOU-Alexander P. We extend deepest sympathy to Lisa Jewell on the loss of her brother and to those who knew and loved him. His thoughtfulness and generosity to Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts Inc will long be remembered with sincere gratitude. Beverly Sills Chairman of the Boa
 PROCHASKA-Hans J., M.D. Ph.D. It is with deep sorrow that the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note the death of their dear colleague and friend, Dr. Hans Prochaska. From 1991 to 1996 Dr. Prochaska was the Head of the Laboratory for Chemical-Biological Interactions at Sloan-K
 William M. Cafaro, an entrepreneur who turned a 1940's investment in a property in Youngstown, Ohio, into one of the nation's biggest real estate development companies, died at his office in Youngstown on Wednesday, a company spokesman said. He was 84 and lived in Youngstown. The Ca
 William Griffis, an actor in theater and television, died on April 13 at the University of North Carolina Memorial Hospital in Chapel Hill. He was 81 and lived in Hillsborough, N.C. Mr. Griffis appeared in Broadway productions including ''1776,'' ''Call Me Madame,'' ''Over Here!'' a
 Alexander Papamarkou, a philanthropist and international investment banker whose clients included royalty, industrialists and major institutions, died Thursday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in New York. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was a heart attack, his 
 Eugene Walter, a poet and novelist, died on March 29 at the University of South Alabama Medical Center in Mobile, where he lived. He was 76. The cause was liver cancer, the hospital said. Mr. Walter, a native of Mobile, often celebrated his hometown in his fiction. His best-
 With more than a year to go before the end of the millennium, it's too early to tell who will top the inevitable honor rolls of 20th-century achievement, but when it comes time to choose the outstanding performance by a school guidance counselor, a leading contender must surely be the long-
 BAILEY-Lee William (''Bill''), 81, on April 22, 1998. Long a resident of Hewlett Harbor, New York, and Lauderhill, FL. For many years he was an intense researcher of the life and works of William Shakespeare. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Eileen Corrigan, three children, Kathleen 
 BEDIN-Emeric J., 77. Passed away April 22, 1998 in the loving warmth of his wife, daughter and son after a courageous battle with cancer. Born Oct. 18, 1920 in Rockford, IL, son of Girolamo & Angela. His youth was spent in Brendola, Italy and returned to Rockford in 1928 through Ellis Islan
 BERRISFORD-Christopher. April 19, 1998, at age 68, in Hong Kong, from complications following heart surgery. Beloved husband of Suzy Moser, devoted father of Sara and Nicholas, and loving brother of Hillary Adair of Haslamere, England. Mr. Berrisford had a distinguished career in education 
 CHISOLM-William Anderton. Died April 24 after a thankfully brief struggle. Born December 6, 1924, in New York City, son of Ruth Anderton and William Garnett Chisolm. Married late Frances Wyatt May 25, 1961. Loving father of Richard Garnett, Frances Allison, Page Anderton and Elizabeth Wyatt
 DINSTMAN-Hyman. Died peacefully April 12. Beloved father of Scott and Lee. Father-in-law of Leslie. Grandfather of Danielle. Founder of Scott Ltd. H K. Former Vice-President IDWC Co. He will be remembered in our hearts for his generosity and kindness.       
 FINLAY-Terence. The Rev. Dr. Terence J. Finlay died on April 8 at his home in Grimsby, Ontario, Canada. A memorial service will be held for him at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue at 51st Street, New York City, on Monday, April 27 at 11:00 AM. Dr. Finlay served as Rector of St. Barthol
 HOFFMAN-Edward N. The staff of Miller Advertising Agency mourns the passing of its cherished colleague and mentor. Ed was responsible for many truly groundbreaking marketing campaigns for America's leading real estate developers. He was an original, an innovator, and a legend in his time. O
 MEYER-John. On April 24. Devoted brother of Fred and Eric. Dear brother-in-law of Ruth and Ursula. Loving uncle of Clifford, Tamara, Cathy, Paul, Jonathan and David. Devoted friend of Peggy, Stuart and Julia. He will always be in our hearts. Services 12:15 PM, Sunday, at ''The Riverside,'' 
 NELSON-Seymour. The Staff of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation (MDRC) are deeply saddened by the death of our long-time, loyal colleague and friend. His dedication and humor provided a source of support to all of us for 19 years. Our sincere condolences go to his family.      
 PAPAMARKOU - Alecko. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the Central Park Conservancy mourn the passing of Alecko Papamarkou, a very generous friend to Central Park. In loving memory of his mother Margot, Alecko recently endowed the Pond landscape, located in the southeastern section of 
 PAPAMARKOU - Alexander P. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Alexander P. ''Alecko'' Papamarkou, an esteemed member of The Rockefeller University Council for more than fourteen years. He was a cherished advocate of biomedical research. His gen
 PEARLSTEIN-Rabbi Aaron S. Age 61, of Rockville, MD. Beloved husband of Dr. Peggy Kronsberg Pearlstein. Devoted son of Dr. Jacob Z'L and Edith Pearlstein Z'L. Adored father of Jack, Sam, and Dr. Ora Pearlstein. Loving fatherin-law of Marisol LaMadrid and Sheryl Saranga Pearlstein. Cherished 
 STARFIELD-Harry. Died peacefully in his bed on April 20 at the age of 93. He was a well beloved teacher of Spanish at Tilden High School before his retirement. He spent many happy summers in Schroon Lake, NY. He is survived by his sisters, Esther Siegel, Phoebe Gozan and Florence Surovell. 
 STITHAM-Michael. Age 55 on April 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee Parmet). Loving father of Hayley and Lawrence. Adored brother of Sarah, Nancy and Judy. Grandfather of Mikey. We will miss you. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St Saturday, 7-9PM and Sun
 WILLIAMS-Donald Eduardo (Willie Pep). Beloved husband, father, and grandfather. Retired merchant seaman, S.S. United States, passed quietly in his home on Thursday, April 23. He leaves a devoted wife, Vena; two daughters, Dolores and Conchita; one son-inlaw Lionel; seven grandchildren, Lion
 The Rev. William James Chase, an advocate of hospital chaplain services and a former assistant to the rector of St. James Episcopal Church, on Madison Avenue at 71st Street, died on April 11 at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 82. Born in Boston, he graduated from Hamilton Coll
 Mel Powell, a composer who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1990 and was the founding dean of the school of music at the California Institute of the Arts, died on Friday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 75. The Associated Press reported that the cause was liver cancer. Mr
 CHISOLM-William Anderton. Died April 24 after a thankfully brief struggle. Born December 6, 1924, in New York City, son of Ruth Anderton and William Garnett Chisolm. Married late Frances Wyatt May 25, 1961. Loving father of Richard Garnett, Frances Allison, Page Anderton and Elizabeth Wyatt
 HILTON-Ordway, 84. A consultant in Questioned Document Examination, who was active in national and international professional organizations, died April 15, 1998. He received both BS and MA degrees from Northwestern University. Mr. Hilton maintained a private practice in New York City from 1
 KAYE-Stephen John. Of New Canaan, CT. Died on April 22, 1998 at age 54 from complications of a stroke at Norwalk Hospital, CT. Beloved father and friend. Survived by daughter and son, Jennifer and Jeffrey Kaye, of Washington, D.C. and fiancee, Sandra W. Libbey, of Stamford, CT. A master sto
 MALKIEL - Yakov. Professor Emeritus of Linguistics, University of California Berkeley, on April 24, 1998, in Berkeley, CA. His family mourns his loss. There will be a private funeral. Donations to the Friends of the Bancroft Library, University of California Berkeley.       
 PAPAMARKOU - Alexander P. The Cycladic Art Foundation mourns the untimely passing of our esteemed Vice-Chairman, Aleco Papamarkou. We shall treasure and miss his wonderful and unchallenged uniqueness, his outstanding leadership, his genuine kindness, his unparalleled generosity and his unwa
 RUDEY-Samuel Richard. Died peacefully at home at age 92 on April 25, 1998. Lawyer and violinist. Dearly beloved husband of Thelma Barasch Rudey; devoted father of John and Laurie Rudey and Liz and Kirk Rudey Ruebenson; loving grandfather of Matthew, Aaron, Spencer Richard, Amanda Kathryn Ru
 Robert Joseph Tramonte, a Brooklyn bookseller whose shops were popular gathering places for writers as well as readers, died on April 9 at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 52. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Barbara. Mr. Tramonte owned Cousin Arthur's Books for 
 Gabe Paul, the baseball executive who arranged for George Steinbrenner to buy the Yankees, then built their championship teams of the late 1970's, died on Sunday at Memorial Hospital of Tampa (Fla.). Mr. Paul, who lived in Tampa, was 88. He started out as a minor league batboy in 19
 Lawrence R. Bailey Sr., a lawyer in upper Manhattan who was the first black member and officer of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority board, died on Thursday at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens. He was 80 and a longtime resident of Jamaica, Queens. The cause was compl
 Nguyen Van Linh, the former Vietcong guerrilla who directed the 1968 Tet offensive and then revitalized Vietnam's economy as the nation's Communist Party leader, died yesterday at a hospital in Ho Chi Minh City, the Foreign Ministry announced. He was 82. The ministry said Mr. Linh, 
 BEYER-Clarence. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation note with deep sadness the death of our dedicated supporter Clarence Beyer, founder of Beyer Farms. He was devoted to our organization, serving as UJA Federation chair at Maspeth Jewish Center and chair of the Mil
 BOSTANY-James Mark, 29. On April 25 at Memorial SloanKettering in Manhattan succumbing to Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) while waiting for a matched bone marrow transplant donor. Jim won a tough battle with Hodgkins five years ago and was diagnosed with MDS several months ago, a disease he 
 CHANOVER-Rabbi Hyman. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1945, he distinguished himself in the field of Jewish education and authored many books for children. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Channa, children Leonard and David and all who
 FOWLER-George T. Of Glen Rock, NJ, died April 26, 1998, while in his 83rd year. Beloved husband of the late Marie. Loving father of Beth Fowler-Witham and Irene Conville. Adoring grandfather of Three. He was Vice President of Premises & Staff Services of Morgan Guaranty Trust CO., N.Y. wher
 GRUBMAN-John Henry. On April 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Judith Ann. Loving father of Susan, James, Clay, April and Robin. Grandfather of four. Dear brother of Richard and son-in-law of Helen Mura. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, today, Tuesday, 3:30
 JAMES-Patrick J. Suddenly in his 87th year, April 26, 1998, of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Garden City, New York. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of Ruth James Johns, Patrick Haaland and Sigrid James Henrichson. Dear grandfather of nine grandchildren and three great gra
 KOVI-Paul. The Board and staff of Citymeals-on-Wheels are deeply saddened by the loss of our generous friend and former Board member, Paul Kovi. We all will miss his wise insights and caring conern for frail and isolated New Yorkers who depend on daily hand-delivered meals. Our sympathy goe
 KURI-Richard F. Passed away peacefully at age 86 on April 23, 1998. Forever in the hearts of, and sorely missed by daughters, Renate, Loraine, Linda and Gisella, and by son Richard J. His children, 12 grandchildren and six great grandchildren, as well as countless friends, miss his presence
 MEAD-Robert H. After an extended illness. Cherished husband of Henrietta Mills. Beloved father of Robert, Slade and Winter, and grandfather of six young children. A graduate of Yale University Class of 1954; teacher, coach and counselor at Salisbury School for 25 years; longterm President o
 MORRILL-Alan. Age 90, born March 13, 1908, died April 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Dorothy for 66 years. Adored father of Carma (dec.). Loving grandfather of Sarah. Graduate of Boston Latin School 1925; Harvard University 1929. Broadway producer, actor, play doctor, raconteur, he left theat
 PAPAMARKOU - Alexander P. The Cycladic Art Foundation mourns the untimely passing of our esteemed Vice-Chairman, Aleco Papamarkou. We shall treasure and miss his wonderful and unchallenged uniqueness, his outstanding leadership, his genuine kindness, his unparalleled generosity and his unwa
 PAUL-Gabriel (Gabe) H., 88. Of Tampa died Sunday at Memorial Hospital. A native of Rochester, NY, he led a distinguished career in professional baseball. Starting as a batboy for the Rochester Baseball Club in 1920, he attained the position of President of the Cincinnati Reds, New York Yank
 PEARLSTEIN-Rabbi Aaron S. We record wtih sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1964, he served pulpits in Bowie, MD., and New London, CT., before returning to the Washington area in 1980. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dr. Peggy, children Sam, Jack and D
 POMMIER-Henri. Age 85. Of Coral Gables, Fla. Passed away Saturday, April 25, 1998. He was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia on July 12, 1912. For much of his life he was a specialist in the manufacturing of fine jewelry and worked closely with other jewelers including Harry Winston of New York
 RUDEY-Samuel Richard. Died peacefully at home at age 92 on April 25, 1998. Lawyer and violinist. Dearly beloved husband of Thelma Barasch Rudey; devoted father of John and Laurie Rudey and Liz and Kirk Rudey Ruebenson; loving grandfather of Matthew Aaron, Spencer Richard, Amanda Kathryn Rud
 SERATING-Robert. We note with sorrow the passing of a long-time member and dear friend. We will miss Bob's ready smile, and his gentle nature. Our most sincere condolences are extended to his family. Hilary Chilton, Auxiliary President North Shore University Hospital/ Manhasset       
 WILLIAMS-Thomas Allison, 61, on April 25th, 1998, of a fatal heart attack while sailing off the coast of Rye, NY. Resident of Rye, NY, loving husband of Lammie, beloved father of Thomas A. Williams Jr, Laura Williams Jodice, J. Carter Williams, David D. Williams, and loving brother of Howar
 WYMAN-William. The Ford Dealers Alliance would like to express our sincerest condolences to the family and friends of Bill (Earl) Wyman. Bill was a founding member of the Ford Dealers Alliance. He had a reputation as being a straight arrow and was well respected by the dealers and the Ford 
 ZINNO-Steven P. The Brooklyn Law School community mourns the tragic loss of Steven P. Zinno, a cherished student, classmate and friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to his mother, Janice Grant, his father, Peter Zinno, his sisters, Allison and Jessica, and all who knew and loved him. Paul
 The Rev. Dr. Frederick Myers Morris, who led St. Thomas Episcopal Church on Fifth Avenue into a period of renewal during his 18-year tenure as its 10th rector, died on March 27 at the Duncaster retirement home in Bloomfield, Conn. He was 92. Dr. Morris, who retired in 1972, was cred
 GOLDIN-Harry, M.D., in his 100th year. Husband of the late Anna E., father of Dr. Gurston D., Jessica Stern, and Harrison J. Grandfather of eight, great-grandfather of two. Brother of Professor Judah Goldin. Services 11:15AM today, Wednesday, April 29 at Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, 125 
 HYMAN-Roger Alan, M.D. At age 54. Loving husband of Susan. Devoted father of Kevin and Douglas. Father-in-law of Sheila. Son of Charles and Ruth Hyman. Brother of Larry. Chairman of Radiology at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. Board member of American College of Radiology. Ser
 PACKALES-Sidney ''Pack''. 85, of Palm Beach, died April 27. He is survived by his loving wife of 57 years, Shirley. Adoring father of Terry Gamer (Donald), and Jill Sullins (Garland). Four loving grandchildren. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to a charity of your choice. Services t
 PAPAMARKOU-Alexander P. We at the Library of Congress are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed friend and counselor Alecko Papamarkou. As a founding member of the Library's private-sector support group, the James Madison Council, he supported many important programs that have brough
 SAMPSON-Harvey E. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of Cornell University Medical College and The New York & Presbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved friend and esteemed Cornell University Medical College Life Overseer Harvey E. Sampson. Mr. Sampson was a founding
 SCHRAGER-Mildred. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Bernard Haller on the loss of his sister. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 TATE-William. A longtime Stamford resident passed away at the Courtland Gardens Health Care Center on Wednesday, April 22, 1998 due to stroke. He was 87. Born in Hackensack, New Jersey on November 6, 1910, he was the son of the late Thomas and Sarah Tate. Mr. Tate was employed at the New Yo
 WASSERMAN-Jack. On April 27, 1998 of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Min. Devoted father of Bert W. and Sandra Wasserman, Rosanne and Al Whyard, Adele J. and Bill Redisch. Loving grandfather of Mindee Wasserman, Craig and Marla Wasserman, Debra W. and Monty Amdu
 WILLIAMS-Thomas Allison, 61. On April 25, 1998, of a fatal heart attack while sailing off the coast of Rye, NY. Resident of Rye, NY, loving husband of Lammie, beloved father of Thomas A. Williams Jr, Laura Williams Jodice, J. Carter Williams, David D. Williams, and loving brother of Howard 
 Paul Kovi, a former owner and director of the Four Seasons restaurant and a major figure on the New York restaurant scene for almost four decades, died on Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 74. The cause was endocarditis, a staph infection of the blood and he
 Wright Morris, whose taut American Gothic novels, stories, essays and photographs plumbed the mysteries of the stark Nebraska landscape and who was often called one of the nation's most unrecognized recognized writers, died on Saturday in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 88. Drawing on a 
 Browning Ross, a two-time Olympian who started America's first magazine for runners and then founded the organization that promoted the development of distance running in the United States, died on Monday, a day after his 74th birthday. On Monday, after his usual three-mile morning 
 David Goheen Leach, a plant geneticist, authority on horticulture and internationally renowned breeder of ornamental plants like hybridized rhododendrons, magnolias and azaleas, died on April 22 at his home in Madison, Ohio. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Gregor von Rezzori, whose novels and memoirs revealed the tragic sweep of European history through two world wars and beyond, died last Thursday at his home in Donnini, a village near Florence. He was 83 and also had homes in Manhattan and on the island of Rhodes. The cause was a he
 Michael N. Chetkovich, a prominent accounting expert and former managing partner at Haskins & Sells, a precursor of the Big Six accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, died on April 21 at Stanford Medical Center in Stanford, Calif. Mr. Chetkovich, a resident of Atherton, Calif., was 81. 
 CHOQUET-Claude. The Lycee Francais de New York mourns the passing of Mr. Claude Choquet on April 6, 1998 in New York City after a long illness. A cherished faculty member, Mr. Choquet taught Philosophy at the Lycee from 1955 until his retirement in 1986. Outstanding student of the Ecole Nor
 GARBER-Harry Douglas. Of Garden City, NY and Winter Park, FL died at home Tuesday, April 28 after a prolonged battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Diane, father of Deborah MacKelcan, Juliet, John and Buckley, grandfather of Douglas, Matthew, Emily Joy, Alexander and Harry, brother of Joha
 GOLDIN-Harry, M.D. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center mourn the passing of Dr. Harry Goldin, a venerable clinician of extraordinary devotion to his profession. A 1924 graduate of Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons who went on to specialize i
 HYMAN-Roger, M.D. The New York State Radiological Society mourns the passing of our former president, Roger Hyman, M.D. At the time of his passing, he was the Chairman of the Dept of Radiology at North Shore University Hospital, and was a member of the governing board of the American Colleg
 KOVI-Paul. Everyone at The Four Seasons restaurant is deeply saddened by the death of our friend and mentor, Paul Kovi. A generous man and patient teacher, Mr. Kovi was like a father to us, gently guiding and encouraging us for more than thirty years. He was and will always remain in our he
 SCHNALL-Seymour. Died April 28, 1998. Beloved brother of Gladys Noveck (z''l), Evelyn Domb (z''l), Jerome Schnall, Edith Artzt, Harriet Malen. Adored uncle and great uncle. A man of integrity, he enriched the lives of all who knew him. Funeral services Sinai Chapel, Queens, NY, April 30, at
 SIDEROW-NAMM-Jeanne. The Board of Directors of the American Friends of Tel Aviv University expresses their profund sorrow on the passing of Jeanne SiderowNamm, the cherished mother of our esteemed colleague and Board member Neil Siderow. Our heartfelt condolences to Neil and his family. The
 STILLMAN-Dr. Raymond E. Devoted husband to Elsie. Loving and guiding father to Dr. Michael and Esther and Dr. Robert and Linda. Cherished grandfather to Lisa, John, David, Jessica and Joel. Beloved brother of Fred, Sylvia, Harry, Sylvia and Eva. The senior leader of the entire Stillman fami
 WILDER-Jack, Dr. My beloved brother, farewell. Julie WILDER-Jack, M.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our professor emeritus, a distinguished psychiatrist, educator, and administrator who was associated with our medical school for
