 Elliott P. Skinner, a former United States ambassador to the Republic of Upper Volta, the West African nation now known as Burkina Faso, and a former chairman of the anthropology department at Columbia University, died April 1 at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause was hear
 Octavio Frias de Oliveira, who built one of Brazil's biggest and most influential media empires, died at his home in São Paulo on Sunday. He was 94. The cause was kidney failure, his company, Grupo Folha, said. Mr. Frias was the publisher of Folha de São Paulo, Brazil's bi
 BERNSTEIN--Morris ''Lew'', on April 30. Beloved husband of Audrey. Devoted father of James, Robert and Lynda. Loving grandfather and great-grandfather. Contributions in his memory can be made to the Audrey Brackman Bernstein Religious School of Temple Sinai of Long Island, 131 Washington Av
 GARY--Raymond Bedros, Age 78 died peacefully on Saturday, April 28, 2007 after a short illness. He was the beloved husband of Prudence Gibb Gary for 36 years and the adored father of their daughter Amelia Mai Gary. He is also survived by his brother Captain Stanley Platt Gary and his family
 KRAMER--George P., 80, died at home on April 27, 2007. He was born in Holyoke, MA, graduated with the class of 1950 from Harvard College, and received his LLB in 1953 from the Harvard Law School. At Harvard, he was an editor of The Crimson and a member of the Signet Society. He served as a 
 SCHIFRIN--Hyman, October 1, 1922 -April 30, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Hilda. Dearest father of Bruce and Ellen, Toni and the late Henry, and Lois. Loving grandfather of Liz and Jeff, Jonathan and Michele, Jaimee and Andrew. Died peacefully at home after a long and valiant battle aga
 SCHULTZ--Rev. Dr. John Frederick, 63, died Friday. He graduated from University of North Carolina and served in the Peace Corps in Nigeria. He completed his M.Div. at Union Theological Seminary and Ph.D. at Columbia. He worked for Church World Service from 1974-1990. He was ordained a Presb
 TORRES--Angel. July 9, 1962 April 21, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, NY, resided in Tamarac, Florida. Passed away at the age of 44, in Fort Lauderdale, FL after a long and valiant struggle against HIV/AIDS. Beloved son of the late Angel Torres Sr., Angel leaves behind his mother Rafaela, brother R
 TURK--Sheldon S., died April 27 in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Born May 26, 1921 in NYC, son of Charles and Anna, brother to Everett and Burton. Lived in NYC, Larchmont, NY and Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Graduate of University of Missouri, proud veteran of the U.S. Air Force, successful businessma
 WEINSIER--Philip. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing or our long time member, Philip Weinsier. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Nina Koppleman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 Tommy Newsom, the good-humored backup bandleader on ''The Tonight Show'' who earned fame as Johnny Carson's comical punching bag -- and respect among musicians as a composer, arranger and saxophone soloist -- died on Saturday at his home in Portsmouth, Va. He was 78. The cause was c
 Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, whose discoveries helped define nuclear astrophysics and whose work toward developing an atomic bomb for Nazi Germany spurred him to help found his country's postwar peace movement, died April 28 in the Bavarian town of Starnberg. He was 94. His death
 Donald P. Lay, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit who rigorously defended the rights of women, Native Americans and convicts during his 40 years on the bench, died Sunday at his home in North Oaks, Minn. He was 80. The death was announc
 BERNSTEIN--Morris Lewis. We mourn the death of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Donations to be made to the Audrey Brackman Bernstein Religious School at Temple Sinai of Long Island. Temple Sinai of Long Island Rabbi Paula Winnig Presidents, Carole Neely and Steve Bla
 FELKAY--Michael M., May 11th, 1914 to April 26th, 2007. Beloved husband, father, and grandfather, passed away at home surrounded by his family on Thursday, April 26th, 2007. Private services were held by the family according to his wishes. He will be remembered with love and gratitude by ma
 GARY--Raymond B. The Board and staff of Third Street Music School Settlement are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend and Board member Ray Gary. For more than two decades, Ray's commitment to our mission was steadfast. From applauding young musicians at student concerts to buildi
 JOSEPH--Richard. Metropolitan Montessori School sends deepest condolences to the family of Richard Joseph, husband of Meg and father of Flory. A loving parent, he will be much missed.       
 KLUGE--Willard G., died at home on Friday, April 20, 2007. He was 82. Born in Philadelphia on September 18, 1924, to the late Willard and Alice (Perry) Kluge, he lived in Montclair for 72 years before moving to Tewksbury 10 years ago. He was the president and CEO of the textiles firm of Art
 KRAMER--George P., 80, died at home on April 27, 2007. He was born in Holyoke, MA, graduated with the class of 1950 from Harvard College, and received his LLB in 1953 from the Harvard Law School. At Harvard, he was an editor of The Crimson and a member of the Signet Society. He served as a 
 ORY--Edward B., died on April 29 after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife Iris Bianchi, three children and four grandchildren. Private service was held.       
 ROBBINS--Leonard. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Shirlee and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft
 SIEGAL--Abraham, on April 30th, 2007, in his 81st year. My darling husband Abe Siegal passed away suddenly yesterday. He is survived by his son Scott Siegal, daughter-inlaw Carolyn and grandchildren Daniel and Blair of Altadena, California, and daughter Lisa of New York City. Papa Abe is al
 Tom Poston, an Emmy-winning comic actor whose television characters ranged from the slow-witted Everyman on "The Steve Allen Show" to a cantankerous closet-dwelling clown on the recent sitcom "Committed," died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. Mr. Poston died after a 
 Tom Poston, an Emmy-winning comic actor whose television characters ranged from the slow-witted Everyman on ''The Steve Allen Show'' to a cantankerous closet-dwelling clown on the recent sitcom ''Committed,'' died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. Mr. Poston died afte
 Henry LeTang, a master dancer, teacher and Tony-winning choreographer who for three-quarters of a century taught the leading lights of Broadway and Hollywood how to tap dance, often with show-stopping results, died last Thursday in Las Vegas. He was 91 and was active until shortly before hi
 FISHMAN-Stuart 72, ended his 11-year odyssey into worlds unknown, dying peacefully on May 1, with thoughts of his unwavering Ellie giving him final peace. He will be remembered for his ever-caring soul, the incarnation of a gentle man, by his adoring wife Eleanor, his sons Robert and David 
 HONIG--Jerome, on May 1, 2007. He loved and was very much loved by his wife, of 57 years, Loretta, his daughter Marcia, his son Norman, sonin-law Tony Reiner and his adored grandson David Reiner. Interment was private.       
 JACOB--James Palmer, educator on three continents and former admissions director for the Collegiate School, died early Saturday, April 21, in his home surrounded by his family. He was 82 years old. Mr. Jacob is survived by his wife Mary Louise, his children Abigail, John, Bill and Sarah, hi
 TOMPKINS--Harold, Judge. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, President   
 ZOUDERER--Herman J., of Winter Park, FL. He was predeceased by his wife of 59 years, Marian. He will be missed by his children Sheila and Marvin Strauss, Dale and Gary Silverstein. His grandchildren Robin and Ira Rashbaum, Debra and Matthew Zik, Pamela Silverstein and Eric Silverstein. His 
 Robert M. Warner, who built a legislative consensus to wrest the National Archives from political control when he was its director, died on April 24 in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack after a yearlong battle with cancer, his son, Mark Warner, said. From 1980
 J. Robert Bradley, whose deep, swooping, octave-leaping voice and charismatic presence made him one of the most important figures in gospel music, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 87. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Anthony Heilbut, the author of ''The Gospel Sound:
 BARBANEL--Dr. Charles J., died May 2, 2007, age 70, adored companion to Ellen, loving father of Eric, devoted grandfather of Joshua, and beloved brother to Laura and Judy. Psychiatrist in private practice, formerly of Booth Memorial Hospital and Long Island Jewish Hospital. His warmth, kind
 BINI--Mario Pio, died on April 26th, 2007, in NYC from lung cancer. Survived by son Michael Bini and son and daughter-in-law Mark and Christiane Cabot Bini, and former wife Katherine Bini (all of NYC), his sister Emma Bolognesi, brother Valerio Bolognesi, both of Bologna, Italy. A Universit
 GERSCHWER--Honorable Seymour, known as Sy, died peacefully at his home in Brooklyn on May 2, 2007. He was 82. A graduate of Brooklyn College and St. John's University School of Law, he was elected as a Civil Court Judge in 1984 and served as a Criminal Court Judge and Acting Supreme Court J
 GOETZ--Alvin Charles, III. The Irondale Ensemble mourns the loss of our dear friend and former trustee, A. Charles Goetz III, 56, of Greenwich, CT, who died suddenly on April 16. He taught physical science at Warren G. Harding High School in Bridgeport, CT. We'll miss you Charlie. Charles w
 INAGAKI--Shigeru, 86, died April 28, 2007, leaving behind his dear wife, Chieko, of 59 years, along with two sons, a daughter, three grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Sony Corporation wishes to express its deepest and most heartfelt sympathy to his family, along with its utmost respec
 LEVIN--Daniel Sloane. Age 81, on May 3rd, 2007. Beloved husband of Bernice, adored father of Nathaniel, Julie and Richard Caro. Proud grandfather of Elijah Lou Caro. Survived by his brother Jack and his family. Devoted to his Lynbrook Print Shop, his love of tennis, and his many friends. Se
 POSTON--Tom. The American Academy of Dramatic Arts mourns the loss of its beloved alumnus Tom Poston, AADA Class of 1947, a virtuoso performer whose comedic talents charmed audiences for 60 years. The Academy communities in New York and Los Angeles extend their sincere condolences to his wi
 RIEGER--Dr. Bela R. Renowned Psychiatrist on May 3, 2007 of Wantagh, in his 85th year. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Tyree). Loving father of Candace and Richard Knobloch, Lynn Rieger, Lillian and Ross DePietro, Joanne and Fred Wind, Maureen and Robert Mandich. Predeceased by his son Paul and
 ROBBINS--Leonard S. Beloved husband of Shirlee, devoted father of Patricia Whitehead, loving grandfather of Robin Seeley, and greatgrandfather to Harrison and Samantha. His love and affection will be deeply missed. ''Everybody loved Lenny''.       
 RUFINO--Thomas Joseph. Died April 2007. May his soul rest in peace. May his star shine bright in heaven.       
 TODMAN--Howard F., television producer of famed game show production company Goodson - Todman Produc tions, died on May 2, 2007. Beloved father, grandfather and great-grandfather. Always a true gentleman who is survived by his four daughters, Raleigh Weiss Todman and Myka Weiss Todman of Ne
 TOMPKINS--Harold. We mourn his passing. We will miss him enormously. The Club; The Walking Group $(6$)TOMPKINS--Harold, Justice, 74. Died of pneumonia, May 2nd, 2007. A very dedicated humanitarian, born in NYC, graduated from Syracuse University and Cornell Law School. Father of his
 Walter M. Schirra Jr., one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts and the only astronaut to fly in all three of NASA's earliest manned space programs -- Mercury, Gemini and Apollo -- died yesterday in San Diego. He was 84 and lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. His death, at a hospit
 BARBANEL--Dr. Charles J., died May 2, 2007, age 70, adored companion to Ellen, loving father of Eric, devoted grandfather of Joshua, and beloved brother to Laura and Judy. Psychiatrist in private practice, formerly of Booth Memorial Hospital and Long Island Jewish Hospital. His warmth, kind
 CRAMES--Charles F. On May 3, 2007. He was the adored and cherished husband of Renee, beloved father of Jonathon and Peter Crames, Elizabeth Grossman, Jon, James, and Robin Karas. Grandfather of Daniel and Paul Grossman and Andrew Karas. Chuck, you mean the world to us. Services Sunday, 11am
 LUMMIS--John M., Jr. died April 28, 2007 in Philadelphia. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, the former Boydena Wilson, his children, Max, Mary, Sheila, James, Benjamin and his brother, Ross. Also surviving are 11 grandchildren and his first wife, Sheila W. Lummis. He was predeceased b
 MINDLIN--Rowland L. Passed peacefully on May 3, 2007 shortly after his 95th birthday. Beloved husband of the late Freda Mindlin and the late Sylvia Mindlin. Cherished father of Henry and Frederic and stepfather of John Brendler. Devoted brother of Rosalind Elbaum and the late Eugene Mindlin
 PETERS--Jeffrey of Roslyn, NY on May 4, 2007. Survived by his wife of 28 years Barbara (Korman), his children Charlee Cook (David), Fred and Samantha, his sister Franne Visslailli, his brother Jonathan, brothers - in - law Jeffrey Korman, Jimmy (Helene) Korman and Lance Korman, and father-i
 SAMUELS--Jack Donald, 71, a hero and inspiration to his friends and family, he passed away on May 3, 2007, due to complications from abdominal surgery. Jack leaves behind his wife, Janet, two children, Don and Stephanie, their spouses, Sherri and Michael, four grandchildren, Andy, Myke, Nic
 SUSSMAN--Herman (Hy) R. Born in Poland on February 14th, 1920, Herman Sussman died on May 3rd, 2007, in Boca Raton, FL after living for over 50 years in Great Neck, NY. Mr. Sussman graduated from New York University and Columbia Teachers College. He was a successful businessman who was also
 TOMPKINS--Harold. We are saddened by the loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague. Board of Justices, N.Y. County $(6$)TOMPKINS--Harold, Justice, 74. Died of pneumonia, May 2nd, 2007. A very dedicated humanitarian, born in NYC, graduated from Syracuse University and Cornell Law Sc
 SAROSDY--Will. In Loving Memory. June 7, 1985 -May 5, 2006. It's been a year since you left us, Will. We grieve the loss of your wonderful, loving presence, just as we celebrate the joy of having shared your remarkable, tooshort life. We know the pain of depression was too intense for you t
 Edward F. Boyd, who as a young sales executive parlayed his assignment to promote Pepsi-Cola to fellow blacks into a war against white racism and black stereotypes, meanwhile selling oceans more soda, died on April 30 in Los Angeles, PepsiCo announced. He was 92. Pepsi hired Mr. Boy
 BOXENBAUM--Steven, 44, died April 30, 2007. He was the devoted and loving son of Gloria and Bernie Boxenbaum, formerly of Great Neck, NY. The treasured brother of Abby (Jonathan) Rubin. Adored uncle of Jessica Sova, Joshua, Zachary and Benji. A man with a giant heart. He was loved by all wh
 BRADLEY--William L. September 6, 1918-April 29, 2007. The Rev. Dr. William Lee Bradley, President Emeritus of the Edward W. Hazen Foundation, of Concord, NH, and Randolph, NH, died in Concord of complications from Alzheimer's disease on April 29, surrounded by his family. Born in Oakland, C
 BRAUDE--Stephen E., of Boston, died May 1, 2007 in Florida. He was the husband of Leigh (Bonilla). Also surviving him are his children from his first wife Bettie Jones, his sons, Evan and Neal and daughters, Nina and Lisa. His funeral service will be held on May 10, on Marthas Vineyard. Ple
 HELLMAN--Bernard A., age 88 of Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved husband of 62 years of Betty, father of Pat, Paul, and Lynn, grandfather of Robin, Lisa, Rebecca, and Noah. He was former President of B. Blumenthal, and a World War II Air Force Veteran. $(6$)HELLMAN--Bernard. Best friend for 65 y
 LAFORSE--Marty. Husband, father, stepfather, gramps, zadie, beloved friend. Master teacher, passionate historian, writer, artist, gardener, story teller, volunteer. Gentle, wise and kind. Louis, Kurt and Jackie, here he comes!       
 LAZARUS--Lester ''Roy'', inspired Opera Director dies at age 76. Roy Lazarus, performer, opera director, and educator, died of cardiac arrest on April 13th in Maine where he had made is home since 1986. A brilliant performer, he went on to translate his insight and approach to performance i
 LEVERE--Dr. Richard D. The faculty of the Department of Medicine of New York Medical College and its affiliated hospitals and clinics from all over the Metropolitan New York region mourn the passing of Richard D. Levere, M.D., M.A.C.P. our esteemed colleague. Dr. Levere served as Chairman o
 MARCUS--Lawrence N. Admired by many, adored by his daughters. Susan, Jane, Ann & Lynn       
 MAYER--Manfred. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a distinguished community leader and YU Guardian who, with his late wife, Eva, established a course in Jewish History at Stern College for Women, and had a long and generous relationship with our institution. Heartf
 MEYER--Manfred. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished Board member, father of our member, David Meyer. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President $(6$)MEYER--Manfred M., died May 3. Devoted hus
 MINDLIN--Rowland L. Passed peacefully on May 3, 2007 shortly after his 95th birthday. Beloved husband of the late Freda Mindlin and the late Sylvia Mindlin. Cherished father of Henry and Frederic and stepfather of John Brendler. Devoted brother of Rosalind Elbaum and the late Eugene Mindlin
 NADLER--Paul S. His school mates and friends of the Horace Mann School class of 1947 note with profound sorrow the loss of Paul Nadler a fine human being whose wit, brilliance and warmth will be sadly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family whom he loved so much and of who
 NATHAN--Henry Louis, died peacefully on May 2, 2007 at age 87. Beloved husband of Sophie, dear father of Claude and daughter-in-law Myriam. Private service was held according to his wishes. He will be forever missed.       
 O'BRIEN--Reginald P., of Cape Cod and Manhattan died February 28, 2007. Survived by his wife, Monica; daughter Alexandra; granddaughters Brianna, Casey, Dory and Bailey; brother John R.; sisters Adrienne and Madeleine. He was predeceased by his son Christopher. Funeral is at 11am, May 12, H
 OKIN--Louis. Passed away peacefully on May 4th, 2007. Born August 25th, 1912, he grew up in Chattanooga, TN and the Bronx after his family immigrated from Russia. He attended NYU on a football scholarship and graduated from its law school as a member of Its law review. In addition to a succ
 PETERS--Jeffrey. A past president of the Roslyn Little League. A great man, on and off the field. We will miss his friendship, leadership, kind words and sincere warmth for all those who surrounded him. Rest peacefully our dear friend. Rosyln Little League Board $(6$)PETERS--Jeffrey. We sha
 QUICK--Perry Day. Died on May 1st, 2007, age 61, at his home in Washington, DC. A prominent economist in Washington for three decades, Dr. Quick was a Vice President and Head of the Washington office of CRA, International, and former Partner and National Director of the Economics Consulting
 ROMANOV--H.I.H. Prince Nikita, died after a long illness on Wednesday, May 3rd. He would have been 84 on May 13. He was the great-grandson of Emperor Alexander the III and Empress Maria Fedorovna. He was also the great-nephew of the last Tsar. His grandparents were Grand Duchess Xenia, daug
 SCHIFRIN--Hyman, October 1, 1922 -April 30, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Hilda. Dearest father of Bruce and Ellen, Toni and the late Henry, and Lois. Loving grandfather of Liz and Jeff, Jonathan and Michele, Jaimee and Andrew. Died peacefully at home after a long and valiant battle aga
 SIEGEL--Max W., 94, on April 24, 2007. A humble but passionate man, who aspired to make the world a better place and inspired others to do the same. He worked hard for good candidates and good causes, most recently the Working Families Party. Max grew up in Brownsville. In the 1930's he bec
 SPRINSON--Dr. David, 96. The Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics at Columbia University Medical Center mourns the death of our esteemed colleague, Emeritus Professor Dr. David Sprinson, on February 28th, 2007. Born in the Ukraine on April 5th, 1910, Dr. Sprinson earned the B
 SUSSMAN--Herman (Hy) R. Born in Poland on February 14th, 1920, Herman Sussman died on May 3rd, 2007, in Boca Raton, FL after living for over 50 years in Great Neck, NY. Mr. Sussman graduated from New York University and Columbia Teachers College. He was a successful businessman who was also
 TOMPKINS--Harold. Distinguished Jurist, a wonderful and kind friend. Cheryl and Albert Lefkovits $(6$)TOMPKINS--Harold, Justice, NYS Supreme Court, Retired. The Respect for Law Alliance, Inc., notes, with sorrow, the passing of one of its esteemed Founding Director and former Executive Vice
 WADLER--Scott M.D. The Board of Directors of the Cancer Research and Treatment Fund mourns the death of Dr. Scott Wadler. Dr. Wadler was a member of our Medical Advisory Board and the first occupant of the Richard T. Silver Distinguished Professorship of Hematology and Medical Oncology at W
 WEINSIER--Philip, April 28, 2007, age 91, at home and, as always, with class. Handsome, beloved husband of the late Joan Tuby Weinsier, cherished and treasured father of Michael Weinsier (Marcy) and Wendy Segal (Danny) and loving and adored grandfather of Matthew and Jacqueline. Sweet, kind
 WEISS--Lawrence S., born in New York City, November 7, 1921, son of Alexander and Bess Weiss has passed to a better place May 3, 2007 after a brief but difficult illness. Loving, devoted husband, father, and grandfather, he was admired, loved and respected by all who knew him. A child of th
 JENNY--Morris. A year ago God saw that you were getting tired and the cure was not to be. He put his arms around you and whispered, ''come with me''. A golden heart stopped beating, hard working hands at rest. God broke our hearts to prove to us He only takes the very best. We will never st
 HARRIS--Arthur Joseph, of Larchmont and most recently of Brooklyn, died May 4, 2007, age 28. Son of Myra (Levine) Harris and the late Jonathan Harris. Graduate of Columbia in 2001, Arthur was the Press Secretary for Andrew Cuomo. Survived by his mother, Myra, brother, Robbie, and many lovin
 LAFORSE--Marty. Husband, father, stepfather, gramps, zadie, beloved friend. Master teacher, passionate historian, writer, artist, gardener, story teller, volunteer. Gentle, wise and kind. Louis, Kurt and Jackie, here he comes!       
 NADLER--Paul S. His school mates and friends of the Horace Mann School class of 1947 note with profound sorrow the loss of Paul Nadler a fine human being whose wit, brilliance and warmth will be sadly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family whom he loved so much and of who
 RAININ--Kenneth, Entrepreneur and Philanthropist, is Dead at 68. Kenneth Rainin, an unstoppable entrepreneur who built his fortune founding scientific and medical products companies and who later parlayed his wealth and management expertise into many charitable causes, died on Wednesday, Ma
 BERG--Gerard, died peacefully on May 6 surrounded by his family. He is survived by his two daughters, Natalie and Alison and his brother Henry. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Holocaust Memorial Museum at USHMM.org.       
 FRYER--Warren R., of Manhattan survived by his partner George Foltrauer. His daughters, Christine, Janet, Lynn and grandchildren, Luke and Olivia May-Fryer. A memorial service will be announced later.       
 GOULD--Gerald B. The Directors, Officers and employees of H.G. Wellington & Co., Inc. mourn the passing of our friend and colleague of over 32 years. His talent, civility, and kindness will be missed greatly. We send our heartfelt condolences to his family. The Board of Directors       
 JOSEPH--Philip, M. 75. Died on May 2, 2007 in Bradenton FL where he recently retired from Larchmont, NY. Philip loved racing sailboats, traveling in Europe with friends and family members, and running his sheet metal factory in Brooklyn. He is survived by his loving wife Cynthia (Broadhead)
 NADLER--Paul S. His school mates and friends of the Horace Mann School class of 1947 note with profound sorrow the loss of Paul Nadler a fine human being whose wit, brilliance and warmth will be sadly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family whom he loved so much and of who
 Russell W. Kruse, whose sonorous voice auctioned off everything from funeral parlors to castles, but who achieved fame for thinking up and building the business of auctioning classic cars, including ones owned by the pope and Al Capone, died Friday, in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 85. Th
 Diego Corrales, who once held four world boxing championships and was remembered most for a pair of brutal lightweight bouts two years ago, died Monday night in a motorcycle accident on the outskirts of Las Vegas. He was 29. Corrales was riding a new motorcycle when he tried to pass
 FUDIM--Allan. The members, associates and staff at Harris Beach express their profound sadness at the passing of their beloved partner, mentor and friend Allan Fudim. He was a prominent trial lawyer for 36 years who took great passion and interest in sharing his knowledge with all of us. We
 HYMAN--Alex. We mourn the passing of Alex Hyman; husband of Olga; father of Esther and Aliza; grandfather of Jennifer, Chris, Kira and Jara; and great-grandfather of Ethen. He was born in ForoEnch, Hungary, and a Holocaust survivor.       
 JACOBSON--Alvin, of Cortlandt Manor passed away Tuesday, May 8th, 2007. He was born on February 8, 1929 in the Bronx and was the son of the late Louis and Rosalind Jacobson. Alvin was the devoted husband of Anita Weinrib Jacobson, whom he was married to for 55 years, and the beloved father 
 JACOBY--Harry J., Musician, Yiddishist, Traveler, born in Brooklyn, August 5, 1923, son of Nathan and Manya, brother of Ben. Loving father of Annice, Isa and recently deceased Teddy. Inspirational grandfather of Scott, Eric, Corinne, Jaiva and Kaj. Died in his daughter's home in California.
 MEYER--Manfred H. BarIlan University and its American Friends mourn the passing of Manfred H. Meyer z''l. An esteemed Honorary Alumnus, Manfred Meyer and his late wife, Eva, z''l, established the Rabbi Dr. Jacob Hoffman chair in the History of Halacha in honor of Rabbi Jacob Hoffman and the
 OLDAK--Stan. NY Cycle Club mourns for our former President. Our sympathies to his family and to all he touched with his generosity.       
 OVIS--Hal. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns his death and extends sympathy to the bereaved family. Jay H. Rosenbaum, Rabbi Garrett L. Gray, President       
 STEGMANN--Fred (nick named ''The Spook'' for his ability to scout out basketball talent), died on May 7, 2007, in NYC. He was the sweet, sensitive, intelligent and loving husband of Clara Clark. Reposing at the O'Shea-Hoey Funeral Home, Inc., 29-13 Ditmars Blvd., Astoria, NY, Thursday, 2-5 
 VOSE--Elliott Evans, of New York City and Quogue, New York, died on Saturday January 13th of pneumonia. He was a graduate of Phillips Academy Andover 1942, Yale College 1945w and the Yale Law School 1950. He served in the US Navy on a PT Boat in the Pacific during World War II. After practi
 HALLENBECK--William (Billy). You were such a good friend, we will miss you always. Mona, Felix, Jamie, Andrew, Sarah. $(6$)HALLENBECK--William. Our hearts are saddened by the loss of our dear friend Bill. We will miss his kindness, great spirit, and very special wit. Our love and co
 Yahweh ben Yahweh, who, as the charismatic leader of a religious, black separatist sect in the Miami area was convicted of conspiring to murder white people as an initiation rite, died on Monday night or early yesterday in Miami. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his lawyer, Jayne We
 Alan V. Lowenstein, a prominent New Jersey lawyer who headed the commission that drafted the restructuring of Newark's government in the 1950s, allowing for the direct election of the mayor, and who also led one of the nation's early attempts at employee ownership of a major company, died T
 Curtis Harrington, who dived under his seat while watching his first horror film as a child, then went on to be a filmmaker known for his elegant, edgy cinematic forays into the macabre, died on Sunday at his home in the Hollywood Hills section of Los Angeles. He was 80. Robert Mund
 CLARKE--Beaufort James Barron. The Empire State Pride Agenda Board and Staff mourns the loss of our Board member, supporter and good friend, Beau Clarke, who passed away April 29, 2007. Our sincere condolences go to his family and many close friends. Beau was well known for his philanthropy
 CONWAY--James J. Jr., former Chairman and Chief Executive of the Long Island Savings Bank, died on May 6, 2007 of complications after a long illness. Jim Conway was married to Dolores (Dee) Gilhooly for 53 years, was the father of five children and grandfather of 18, and was an accomplished
 ENSIGN--Richard P. Airline Pioneer. If you have ever enjoyed a glass of champagne or cup of coffee on an airline, used frequent flyer miles, paid less than full fare for your children to fly, or said, ''The Only Way to Fly,'' then you have benefited from Richard Ensign's life. Dick Ensign, 
 FALKOWITZ--Bernie. Our sincerest condolences and warm wishes go to the Falkowitz family for the loss of Uncle Bernie. We will always carry him in our hearts. Love, Justin, Jenny, Lynn, Doug, Isabelle and Mack       
 HALLENBECK--William. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes with profound sorrow the passing of William Hallenbeck, esteemed member of the Einstein family. Bill and his beloved wife Diane have been longtime supporters of the College. Together with their dear bro
 KORALL--Burt, age 76, music journalist, beloved husband of Paula for 43 years, dear father of Andrew Korall, Diana and David Cohen, loving son-in-law of Gertrude Swetsky, and cousin of Sandra Yorn. Cherished grandfather of Alyssa, Ryan, and Gabrielle. He was one of a kind and will be sorely
 LEFF--Martin J. Passed away May 8th, 2007. Born August 29th, 1914, son of Hannah and Joseph Leff. Beloved husband of Eleanor, revered father of Leslie Leff Barish and Jeffrey Leff. Stepfather of Andrew Schwartz (deceased) and Richard Schwartz. Adored grandfather of Jodie Bogomilsky, Jennife
 LUKE--John A. Sr. Former president and chief executive officer of Westvaco Corporation, died on Monday, May 7. He was 81. According to his family, Mr. Luke died of complications following a brief illness. The son of the late David L. Luke, Jr. and Priscilla Warren Luke, Mr. Luke is survived
 PYNE--Eben W., 89, died April 11, 2007, at his home in Hobe Sound, Florida. A Service will be held on May 12 at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 182 Main St., Gladstone, NJ at 10:30 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Brooklyn Museum, Fort Ticonderoga, Juilliard School of Music
 SHEPARD--Burton L, on May 8, 2007 at age 89. Beloved husband of Sarah, survived by his son Barry, daughter-inlaw Susan, granddaughters Allison, Jacklyn, and Rebecca, stepchildren Susan and Michael Berkowitz. Burton was a devoted husband and father, highly accomplished CPA, loyal NY sports f
 ARON--Samuel. The Board of Directors of the Zamir Choral Foundation expresses its profound sadness upon the passing of Samuel Aron, beloved father of our esteemed colleague and former President, Martin Aron, and extends its condolences to his daughterin-law, our fellow Board member, Beth Ho
 CLARKE--Beaufort James Barron Clarke was born in Tupelo, Mississippi, on September 11th, 1946, and passed away on April 30th, 2007 in London. His education included a Bachelor of Arts from George Washington University and a Juris Doctor from The University of South Carolina. He worked at Sh
 GOLDEN--Max, on May 10, 2007, in his 102nd year. Devoted husband of the late Sally. Cherished father of Charles (Sheila) and Dr. Ronald (Ruthe) Golden. Adored grandfather of Dr. Brian (Trish), Erica (Mike), Meredith (Michael), Dr. Lauren, and Jessica (Lee) and greatgrandfather of Samantha, 
 JACOBSON--Alvin. Gan Yavne Youth Village joins the Jacobson family in mourning the loss of their wonderful husband and father. He was our great patron and builder whose work on our behalf and that of Israeli youth will never be forgotten. Rabbi Hersh Galinsky, Dean       
 LEFF--Martin. We mourn the loss of our oldest and most cherished friend and client. Our deepest sympathies to his entire family. Shelly and Gerry Kaufman $(6$)LEFF--Martin J. Passed away May 8th, 2007. Born August 29th, 1914, son of Hannah and Joseph Leff. Beloved husband of Eleanor
 LEVY--Franklin. The members, Board of Governors and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time board member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Nancy, and his family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 PYNE--Eben W., 89, died April 11, 2007, at his home in Hobe Sound, Florida. A Service will be held on May 12 at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 182 Main St., Gladstone, NJ at 10:30 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Brooklyn Museum, Fort Ticonderoga, Juilliard School of Music
 ROTH--Dennis. The Board and Staff of The Workmen's Circle and Camp Kinder Ring/ Circle Lodge mourn the untimely death of Dennis Roth. Turning grief at the loss of his son Jeffrey into activism, Dennis worked unstintingly to advance brain cancer research and services. We grieve with his belo
 STEVENSON--Bruce, died on Monday, May 7th. He is survived by his wife, Betsy Greenberg Stevenson; two children from his first marriage, Blake Stevenson of Essex, Connecticut, and Rhetta Elser of Camden, South Carolina; four stepchildren, Andrew Greenberg of New York City, Daniel Greenberg o
 TURNBULL--David, died peacefully at home in Cambridge, MA on April 28, 2007, at 92 years. Loving husband for 52 years of Carol, who died in 1999; father of Lowell, (Randi Greenwald) Murray, and Joyce McDonald (Michael); grandfather of Ian and Derek Turnbull and John and Scott McDonald. Gord
 VOGEL--Abe, age 99, passed away peacefully at home on May 10th. Beloved by his children, Hermine and Norman Siegel, Leonard and Francine Vogel; grandchildren Mark Siegel, Paul and Gina Siegel, Gwen and Scott Greenberg, Geri and Glenn Zuck, Jennifer Vogel; and great - grandchildren Jason Sie
 Theodore H. Maiman, a physicist who on May 16, 1960, demonstrated the world's first laser, a device small enough to fit in his hand, died on May 5 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 79. The cause was systemic mastocytosis, a rare genetic disorder, his wife, Kathleen, said.      
 Alfred D. Chandler Jr., an economic historian who revolutionized the writing of business history, shunning the old debate about whether tycoons are good or bad, and instead arguing persuasively in almost two dozen books that it was the emergence of professional management that propelled mod
 Leonard D. Eron, a psychologist whose pioneering studies of youth violence led him to conclude that television had a significant role in prompting destructive behavior in later life, died on May 3 at his home in Lindenhurst, Ill., near Chicago He was 87. The cause was congestive hea
 LATTIMER--John Kingsley. The faculty and staff of the Department of Urology Columbia University and the J. Bentley Squier Urological Clinic NY Presbyterian Hospital join us in mourning the passing of our chairman from 1955-1980, John Kingsley Lattimer, M.D., M.Sc. A visionary leader, whose 
 LEFF--Martin. The Woodcrest Club of Syosset, NY, deeply mourns the loss of beloved longtime member, Martin Leff, and extends its sincerest sympathy to his family. Our condolences to his wife, Eleanor, as well as to all of the many people who loved him. He will be greatly missed by all of th
 O'BRIEN--Reginald P., of Cape Cod and Manhattan died February 28, 2007. Survived by his wife, Monica; daughter Alexandra; granddaughters Brianna, Casey, Dory and Bailey; brother John R.; sisters Adrienne and Madeleine. He was predeceased by his son Christopher. Funeral is at 11am, May 12, H
 SALAMONE--Alfred W. ''Al'', 83, passed away May 6 in Key Biscayne, FL. Survived by his companion Maxine and his brother Frank and family of Harrison, NY. Son of Mr. and Mrs. Antonio Salamone. Al, a lifetime member of Westchester, NY Professional Golfer Association, a retired Army captain ha
 SALZMAN--Jacob A., of New York City died on May 8, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Ida Salzman. Cherished father and father-in-law of Richand Susan Salzman, Anita and Myron Pulier, Robert Salzman and Lori Brooks. Grandfather of Eric, Greg and Tara, Annie and Matt, Rachel and Scott, Talia 
 DiCRISTINA--Salvatore Thomas John, Born April 28, 1952, joined his mother, Carmela Millie, his grandparents, uncles, aunts and cousins in eternal rest on May 9, 2007. Survived by his parents Vito and Valerie, his siblings, Francis, Christine, Joseph, James and Lance, his nephews and nieces,
 John K. Lattimer, a prominent urologist, ballistics expert and collector of historical relics who treated top-ranking Nazis during the Nuremberg war crimes trials and was the first nongovernmental medical specialist allowed to examine the evidence in President John F. Kennedy's assassinatio
 BREITMAN--Jeffrey K. Died April 26, 2007 of heart failure at age 49. Most dearly beloved son of Ruth and Robert Friedman and the late Harold Breitman. Loved and adored by his sister Joanne Breitman Singer and her husband Eric. Brother Martin Friedman (Toinette), his nieces and his sister, t
 CLEMENT--Samuel Prescott Bush, son of Stuart Holmes Clement and Margaret Livingston Bush Clement, was born 29 December 1921 in Buffalo, NY, and died peacefully 4 May 2007 in Bloomfield, CT. Mr. Clement, known as ''Pres'', attended Foote School, graduated from Pomfret School in 1940, attende
 LANDOR--John Henry M.D., Ph.B. Beloved husband of Mary Gibbons, died January 4th, 2007 at home in Monterey, MA. Professor of general surgery and practicing surgeon, he had a long and productive career which included extensive research in gastrointestinal physiology. Survived by six children
 LEFF--Martin. The Woodcrest Club of Syosset, NY, deeply mourns the loss of beloved longtime member, Martin Leff, and extends its sincerest sympathy to his family. Our condolences to his wife, Eleanor, as well as to all of the many people who loved him. He will be greatly missed by all of th
 MANIS--Irving. Died on May 1, 2007. Adored husband, father and grandfather. Funeral services were held on Sunday, May 6, at Cedar Park (Beth El section) Township of Washington, NJ. He will be missed and loved forever.       
 ROBERTS--Ralph., on May 8, 2007 of Wellington, FL. Husband of Betty (Sampson); father of Jane (Steven Lindemann), Nancy (David Gillece), Jimmy (Sandra Mayer); grandfather of Jeremy, Benjamin, Judah and Memmie Lindemann; Casey and Patrick Gillece; Jackson, Aidan and Daniel Roberts. Contribut
 ROTMAN--Art, of Arkville, NY and Montclair, NJ, born in Montreal, Canada in 1926. Loving husband of Anita Schecter Rotman; devoted father of Stephen (Minna Shulman), Laurie (Henry Barber), and Carol (Labe Richman). Adored grandfather of Daniel, Rachel, Maia, Zoe, Anna, Katie, Carly and Ben.
 SCHAFER--Dr. John F. (Jack). Dr. Jack Schafer passed away May 5th, in Santa Rosa California, of pancreatic cancer at the age of 86 after a very short illness. Jack was a plant pathologist with a productive career improving grain crops. He received a doctoral degree at the University of Wisc
 STRAUSS--Lawrence M.D., died on May 10th. He is survived by his beloved companion Esther Schwinger, children Leslie Strauss of Sausalito, CA and Bob Strauss and grandchildren Jillian and Kelsey Blakkan-Strauss of Muskegon, MI, sister and brother-in-law Bobbie and Judge Simons of Florida, si
 SUMMERFIELD--Jack D., 79, Communications Professor, writer and loving father. During his career, Summerfield managed radio and TV stations (WGBH, WRVR and KPBS), won numerous national awards including the Peabody, volunteered in the Peace Corps and passionately taught college students. He i
 TURNBULL--David, died peacefully at home in Cambridge, MA on April 28, 2007, at 92 years. Loving husband for 52 years of Carol, who died in 1999; father of Lowell, (Randi Greenwald) Murray, and Joyce McDonald (Michael); grandfather of Ian and Derek Turnbull and John and Scott McDonald. Gord
 RUDERMAN--Abe. 1910-1982. Still with us in spirit, he lives in our hearts and thoughts. David and the Family       
 FLEISSNER--Erwin, 70, died on May 12, 2007 at home. Devoted husband of Judith Friedlander, loving father of Jennifer (Joshua Kates) and Katie, adoring grandfather of Ezekiel, devoted brother of Robert and son-in-law of Sadie Klein, mother of his deceased wife Norma. Distinguished molecular 
 GALLANT--Herbert, 84, on Friday. Beloved husband of Geraldine; cherished father of John, Brenda, Robert and Ilze; grandfather of Lawrence and Brad; born to Frank and Frances. Graduated Harvard, summa cum laude 1944. President of Gallant for over 50 years. Member Harvard Club 62 years, found
 OLIVE--Robert, 53, of Fire Island on May 12th. He is survived by his loving wife of 16 years Debby. He had a lifelong career in marketing and consulting. A devoted volunteer fire fighter and EMT. He will be greatly missed. Service is Monday, at 10:30am at The Star of David Memorial Chapel, 
 SCHAFER--Dr. John F. (Jack). Dr. Jack Schafer passed away May 5th, in Santa Rosa California, of pancreatic cancer at the age of 86 after a very short illness. Jack was a plant pathologist with a productive career improving grain crops. He received a doctoral degree at the University of Wisc
 ZEITLIN--Edwin. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our longtime member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Edith, son Andrew (Elaine), sister Joyce Berger (Arthur), granddaughters S
 CONWAY--James J., Jr. The Board and staff of Little Flower Children and Family Services mourn the passing of James J. Conway, Jr. Although thousands knew him as the brilliant former leader of Long Island Savings Bank, we at Little Flower knew him not only as a generous supporter of children
 FLEISSNER--Erwin, 70, died on May 12, 2007 at home. The family will be receiving visitors on May 15, 16, and 17 from 5pm-9pm. A memorial service will take place at Hunter College, May 30. Check Hunter College's Website for details. Contributions in Erwin's memory can be made to the Sciences
 FORMATO -- Anthony A., M.D. on May 13, 2007. Beloved Husband of Dr. Mary Louise (nee LaRotonda) Formato. Son of the late Amato and Mary Formato. Brother of Teena Prata, Gloria Fidanzato and the late Vincent. Dr. Formato was a graduate of Fordham University and Downstate Medical School. He s
 GALLANT--Herbert, 84, on Friday. Beloved husband of Geraldine; cherished father of John, Brenda, Robert and Ilze; grandfather of Lawrence and Brad; born to Frank and Frances. Graduated Harvard, summa cum laude 1944. President of Gallant for over 50 years. Member Harvard Club 62 years, found
 NUSSBAUM--Max. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished Board member, Max Nussbaum, husband of Ruth Nussbaum and father of Alan Nussbaum. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 SALTZ--Louis A., of Bayside, NY, died on May 11th, 2007. Survived by his loving wife Rochelle, he was a devoted father of Susan, Emily and Brian, and cherished grandfather to Julie, Julian, Sam, Bailey and Katy. Services Wednesday 11:15 am at Sinai Chapel, Horace Harding Blvd, 162nd St, Flu
 SATTY--Glenn J. on May 13, age 58 after a courageous battle with melanoma. Beloved brother, uncle, cousin, friend, teacher and colleague. Glenn enlightened and enriched those of us who were fortunate to know him. He was an unforgettable personality, generous, inventive, inquisitive, enterta
 STEFFEN--Jonathan F., formerly of Mamaroneck, NY, died of a massive embolism following ankle reconstruction in Philadelphia, PA on April 15, 2007 shortly before his 37th birthday. He was born in North Tarrytown, New York on April 28, 1970 and was a graduate of Mamaroneck High School. Prior 
 WEINSTEIN--Harvey J., 82, adored and devoted father and grandfather. Cherished by his children Lori, Mark, Deb, and Dan; Celebrated by his grandchildren Justin, Chloe, Jessica, Kyle, Rachael, and Hunter; Loved by his longtime partner Susan, her children Gail and David, and as ''Pop'' by Bri
 RINGELHEIM--Herman. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Herman Ringelhiem and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Selma and his entire family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club David Simon, President Steve Tolman, Secretary       
 Stanley Holden, whose Chaplinesque blend of wistfulness and wit made him one of the finest character dancers in Britain's Royal Ballet before he settled in Los Angeles and became one of the area's most popular ballet teachers, died on Friday in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 79. The c
 William Becker, who after enduring rundown, though not particularly cheap, motel rooms on a cross-country trip in 1960 got the idea for the Motel 6 chain, charging $6 a night for a spare but clean room, died April 2 at his ranch outside Kingman, Ariz. He was 85. The cause was a hear
 The Rev. Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and brought the language and passions of religious conservatives into the hurly-burly of American politics, died yesterday in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73. His death was announced by Liberty University, i
 BELL--Charles W. Dear Diana, Amanda, Peter, Sarah, Zoe, Andrew: Bill was a renowned and beloved newspaper professional who found and told the interesting story within each person. If it was worth saying, Bill said it passionately. He made his marks on those he met quickly and forever. We ar
 BIRNBAUM--Robert, a loving husband, father, grandfather and cherished one of many, passed away on May 12, 2007. Bob was born in Brooklyn in 1938 and enjoyed life in Los Angeles, New York and Seattle with a loving family by his side. He was an accomplished TV producer, and touched the lives 
 BLACK--Daniel James,former chemical and pharmaceutical firm executive and U.S. Army veteran, died Friday in Manhasset, New York, from the complications associated with cancer and its treatment. He was 75. Born in Asbury Park, New Jersey in 1931, to Daniel Joseph Black and Julia B. (Palmer) 
 EPAND--Harold, 89, loving husband to Marjorie (Peggy) Crane Epand, passed away in Denver, Sunday May 13. The former President/Owner of Brite Electric Sales Corp in NYC, Harold, born January 23, 1918, served in WWII in England as Captain in the Army Air Corps. In 1946 he married Jacqueline R
 GOOD--William D. 74, died May 13, 2007 after a long bout with cancer. He is survived by wife, Mary, his children: daughter Marybel and husband Denis Giblin, son Jonah and spouse Maria, and son John and former spouse, Vivian, as well as nine grandchildren, brother Robert and wife Mary Sue of
 LATTIMER--John Kingsley, M.D., M.Sc. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague Dr. John Kingsley Lattimer. Emeritus professor and chairman of the Department of Urology at Columbia University Medical Center and urologist-in-chief at NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital/C
 LAZARUS--Charles Y. died peacefully at his home in Columbus, Ohio on Monday, May 14, 2007. He lived a long and full life as a decorated veteran of WWII; a distinguished retailer; a community leader; an advisor to mayors, governors and presidents and a dedicated family man. A memorial servic
 PHILLIPS--James McQuiggan. James (Jim) Phillips formerly of Scarsdale, New York and Point O' Woods, New York, died of colon cancer on May 13, 2007. He was 37 years old. Jim attended Scarsdale schools, graduated from Salisbury School in Connecticut and Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania. Aft
 RUPP--William, died after a brief illness on May 11, 2007. Survived by his brothers Gerald E. and John D. and his nieces and nephews: Antoinette Knabl, Allison C. Rupp, Tracey A. Rupp, John T. Rupp, Kristine E. Boccia and great-nephews and -nieces and his long term companion James L. Day, J
 STEFFEN--Jonathan F., formerly of Mamaroneck, NY, died of a massive embolism following ankle reconstruction in Philadelphia, PA on April 15, 2007 shortly before his 37th birthday. He was born in North Tarrytown, New York on April 28, 1970 and was a graduate of Mamaroneck High School. Prior 
 WEINSTEIN--Harvey J. The Clothing Manufacturers Association of the USA offers deepest condolences to the family of Harvey J. Weinstein, a past president, chairman and board member of CMA. During his 40 years of leadership, Harvey won respect of members for his courage, loyalty and integrity
 Robert S. Oelman, who was chief executive of the NCR Corporation for 17 years and moved in the circles of leaders of business, politics and golf, died in Delray Beach, Fla., last Thursday. He was 97. Mr. Oelman worked for NCR, based in Dayton, Ohio, for 47 years, and also served on 
 Thomas Curry, one of two New York City police officers who were seriously wounded by machine-gun fire in 1971 while guarding the Manhattan district attorney's home, died on Monday in the Bronx. He was 74. The cause was cancer, his wife, Mary Lou Curry, said. Officer Curry an
 Myer Shark, a Minnesota consumer lawyer whose last case sought to recover $300 million of taxes that electric customers paid a utility but that federal and state governments never received, died yesterday in a suburb of Minneapolis, days after filing the final papers in the case. He was 94.
 Norman Frank, the public relations executive who in 1966 devised the strategy by which New York City's police union turned back Mayor John V. Lindsay's attempt to create a civilian complaint review board, died Friday near his home in Miami. He was 82. The death was announced by his 
 ABRAM--Michael R., 58, Loving husband, father, son, brother, friend and a sweet caring man. Family, friends, music and solving problems were the most important things in his life. Michael's greatest accomplishment was being a great father and his greatest joy was turning people on to good m
 COHEN--Marc. Ritual Director of Whitestone Hebrew Center for 41 years. April 7, 1907-May 16, 2007. Born in Cairo, he is survived by his wife Giselle. Beloved by thousands of Bar and Bat Mitzvot, all of whose names he still rememberd at 100! Funeral at Whitestone Hebrew Center at 1:30pm toda
 DAIL--James Russell ''Rusty'', 33, of Manhattan, formerly of Lovettsville, VA, died Friday, May 4, after a long battle with melanoma. Rusty is survived by his parents, Margaret Armstrong, of Waterford, VA, and James R. Dail, of Diamond Head, MS; his partner, Zengyan ''Yen'' Feng, of Manhatt
 EPSTEIN--S. Walter. As a man with a genuinely generous spirit, irreplaceable wit, and an irrepressible joy for life, he will be deeply missed by his family and friends.       
 KOELZER--George J. Born March 21, 1938 in Orange, NJ passed peacefully on May 14, 2007. A prominent trial attorney, arbitrator, and mediator, he is well respected in courtrooms across the country. He tried hundreds of jury trials over more than 40 years as a member of the New York, New Jers
 LIPNER--Leon I. of Hollis Hills, NY born March 19, 1920, in Brooklyn, NY to Max and Esther Lipner died May 15, 2007. Graduate of Brooklyn College, MBA from Adelphi University. Merchant Marine officer in World War II. Beloved husband of Alice (Fein) for 67 years. Devoted father of Chester an
 MINKOFF--Walter, 81, on May 14 of pneumonia complicated by Parkinson's Disease. Served in WWII Army Airforce with his late twin brother Leonard, graduated Cornell University with a BS in Chemical Engineering and served as President of Peerless Paint & Varnish. Loving husband of Lois, devote
 PHILLIPS--James McQuiggan. James (Jim) Phillips formerly of Scarsdale, New York, and Point O' Woods, New York, died of colon cancer on May 13, 2007. He was 37 years old. Jim attended Scarsdale schools, graduated from Salisbury School in Connecticut and Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania. Af
 SCHLAEGER--Ralph, M.D., died March 13, 2007. He was a Radiologist at Presbyterian Hospital and Professor at Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons for 51 years. In recent years he served as a consultant at Presbyterian Hospital and an esteemed Emeritus Professor of Clinical
 STOLLER--Michael J. Born on the Fourth of July 1931. A graduate of Wharton School of Business, he had a distinguished career as a senior publishing executive at McGraw Hill and was Publisher of Electronic Products, a Hearst Publication. A great lover of life, he was adored and will be deepl
 CAVAGLIERI--Giorgio, 95, May 15, 2007. Architect, brother, uncle and special friend, inspired all who knew him active in urban affairs over his long distinguished career. Survived by Natalie Meadow, nieces, nephew, grand, greatgrand nieces and nephews. Memorial to be announced.       
 WEISENBURGER--Alice. The Health and Hospitals Corporation (HHC) Foundation of NYC extends our deepest sympathy to our esteemed Board member Randall J. Weisenburger, his wife Catherine, and their children on the passing of their beloved mother, mother-in-law and grandmother. Our heartfelt co
 Denis G. Kuhn, an architect who oversaw many major restoration and reuse projects in New York City, including the transformation of the Alexander Hamilton Custom House into the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian and the conversion of the old Police Department headquarters 
 Giorgio Cavaglieri, an architect who took his fascination with how buildings and cities change over time from his native Italy to New York, where he helped start and define the city's preservation movement, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 95. His nephew Andrew Tesoro announced 
 ABRAMS--Robert E., beloved husband of Eleanor W., father of Bruce A. and Beth, grandfather of Daphne and Simon, died on May 14th, 2007 at the age of 85. Born in Scranton, PA on August 22nd, 1921. He was a WWII combat correspondent. In Germany, he uncovered a Nazi eugenics program that conti
 BAUMAN--Mordecai, died May 16, 2007, age 95. WWII Veteran. A baritone, he introduced songs by Ives, Eisler, Blitzstein, and Copland. With his wife, Irma Commanday, founded Indian Hill Arts Workshop, Stockbridge, MA, and produced a film, ''The Stations of Bach.'' Survived by Irma, sons Joshu
 BURKE--John G., 55, loving husband of Sara and devoted father of Rosa and Sadie. Born in London, 1952, died on May 11 at home in Staten Island. Came to the U.S. in 1970, where he lived many years in San Francisco and the East Village. John was a lifelong socialist, folk music lover and poli
 COSTELLO--Joseph Michael, died Tuesday from complications from a fall. He was surrounded by his family. Joe was born February 28, 1925, in Manhattan to Michael and Mary Costello of County Mayo, Ireland. He graduated from Rice High School and enrolled in Iona College, where his education was
 GEORGE--Dr. Bryant, (79), a Presbyterian minister, died on May 8. His distinguished career improved peoples lives around the world. He's survived by a brother, son, daughter, other family and friends. Memorial: 1pm Saturday, May 19, New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, 1313 New York Ave., N
 JOHNSON--Paul C. Novelist, carpenter, peace activist and homesteader, formerly of New Mexico and Brooklyn, passed away peacefully at home, with family, in Las Vegas, New Mexico, on November 20, 2006. A memorial celebration will be held for him at the Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Sq
 LAWRENCE--Jacob (Jack), 83, on May 16. Retired from his veterinary practice to pursue his many passions. Committed to social justice, an avid fisherman, folk dancer and lifelong learner. His endless curiosity and zest for life inspire us all. He had two wonderful marriages, first to Adele a
 MURPHY--Bernard Carl, 67, died May 16th, 2007, of lung cancer in Manhattan. A consummate New Yorker, Mr. Murphy was an avid collector of New York City books and memorabilia, many of them extremely rare. He died at Cabrini Hospice with his much loved Chrysler Building outside the window. He 
 STRAHL--Martin. The Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to Ellen, Neil and Andrea, Pamela and Andrew, Wendy and Eric, and the entire family. Mark J. Shirvan, President   
 CAVAGLIERI--Giorgio, 95, May 15, 2007. Architect, brother, uncle and special friend, inspired all who knew him active in urban affairs over his long distinguished career. Survived by Natalie Meadow, nieces, nephew, grand, greatgrand nieces and nephews. Memorial to be announced.       
 Donald M. Ginsberg, a physicist who became a leading expert on the production and functioning of superconductors, died on May 7 at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 73. The cause was melanoma, his family said. In their various forms, superconductors are used in computers, elec
 Lloyd Alexander, a National Book Award-winning author of fantasy novels for young people whose work was noted for its romantic locales, complex characters and barely concealed allegorical depictions of the struggle against tyranny, died on Thursday at his home in Drexel Hill, Pa. He was 83.
 BELL--Philip, of Rockville Centre, NY, died peacefully early Friday at South Nassau Communities Hospital. Beloved and devoted husband of Gladys; dedicated father of Jack and Robert; cherished grandfather who worshiped Jesse, Samantha and Sadie; dear father-in-law to Theresa and Teresa. Your
 DAVIS--John H. ''A visionary technologist of the telecommunications revolution'' died on November 19 in Rumson, NJ. CTO of AT&T Communications Services, fireman, sailor, husband, father, friend, he was beloved on this earth.       
 GLUCKSMAN--Trevor. Founder Wellfleet Pottery Trevor Glucksman, 82, husband of Kathleen, father of sons Maurice, Daniel and Tobias, and grandfather of four, passed away on May 15 after a long illness. Trevor is also survived by sister Lorraine and brother Myron. In 1970, Trevor and Kathleen 
 GOSLIN--Charles. The Pratt Institute community notes with sorrow the death of Communications Design Professor Charles Goslin. During his 41-year design and teaching career, Charles educated generations of designers and illustrators and was named a Distinguished Professor in 2003. A memorial
 GRAHAM--Colin (1931-2007). Opera Theatre of St. Louis dedicates the 2007 season to the memory of Colin Graham, our artistic director since 1985. An acclaimed director and librettist, he was ''a force in living opera,'' staging 48 new OTSL productions and a record 56 world premiers in the US
 LAWRENCE--Jacob (Jack), 83, on May 16. Retired from his veterinary practice to pursue his many passions. Committed to social justice, an avid fisherman, folk dancer and lifelong learner. His endless curiosity and zest for life inspire us all. He had two wonderful marriages, first to Adele a
 Alphonse Ardoin, a Louisiana Creole accordionist and singer nicknamed Bois Sec whose music stalwartly sustained South Louisiana tradition, died Wednesday of natural causes in Eunice, La., where he had been living in a nursing home, said his son Morris. He was 91 years old. For five 
 BELL--Philip, of Rockville Centre, NY, died peacefully early Friday at South Nassau Communities Hospital. Beloved and devoted husband of Gladys; dedicated father of Jack and Robert; cherished grandfather who worshiped Jesse, Samantha and Sadie; dear father-in-law to Theresa and Teresa. Your
 BERMAN--Meyer. The Yeshiva University/RIETS family is deeply saddened by the passing of a major supporter of our institution, a YU Guardian who, together with his brother, Rabbi Julius (and Dorothy) Berman, established the Rabbi Henoch and Sarah D. Berman Chair in Talmud at the Gruss Instit
 CONNELLY--William Mowry. A prominent product liability attorney, died Saturday, May 12 from a heart attack. He was 64. Connelly was born February 5, 1943 in Buenos Aires, Argentina and grew up in Greenwich, CT. He attended Phillips Exeter Academy and Yale University, and was a member of the
 DIRECTOR--James J., of Merrick, NY, died May 18, 2007 at the age of 53. Jim had a wonderful sense of humor and an unquenchable zest for life. He was surrounded by a loving circle of family and friends, and was taken from us too soon, but he will forever live in our hearts. Beloved husband o
 GLUCKSMAN--Trevor. Founder Wellfleet Pottery Trevor Glucksman, 82, husband of Kathleen, father of sons Maurice, Daniel and Tobias, and grandfather of four, passed away on May 15 after a long illness. Trevor is also survived by sister Lorraine and brother Myron. In 1970, Trevor and Kathleen 
 HALEVY--Irving (born June 24, 1916, Newark, NJ). Irving Halevy, beloved father, grandfather and great-grandfather, died on Tuesday, May 8, 2007 en route to his home in Manchester Center, Vermont from his residence in PGA, Florida. At 15, after his family farm in Tom's River, New Jersey was 
 HOGAN--John Edmund, age 88, died Tuesday May 15, 2007. John was born in White Plains, NY on July 28, 1918. He grew up in Teaneck, NJ and graduated from St. Cecilia's High School in Englewood, NJ. He received a bachelor's in Electrical Engineering from Manhattan College in Riverdale, NY in 1
 KACHURIN--Leon Edward, Beloved husband for 47 years of Penny. Adored father of Pamela and Jessica, and grandfather of Jared, Gabriella and Hailey. Beloved by all who knew him.       
 LAWRENCE--Jacob (Jack), 83, on May 16. Retired from his veterinary practice to pursue his many passions. Committed to social justice, an avid fisherman, folk dancer and lifelong learner. His endless curiosity and zest for life inspire us all. He had two wonderful marriages, first to Adele a
 MILITO--Michael, passed away on May 18, 2007, after a long and valiant battle. Mike was a special human being, a loyal friend, a rabid Mets fan, and a gifted computer wizard. Despite years of health problems, he laughed easily and lived life to the fullest. Mike was loved by three generatio
 SCHIFTER--Sidney, 93, DC 65 Union Activist, formerly of New York, died in Del Ray Beach, Florida on April 24. He was married to the late Gertrude (nee Weiner), survived by his second wife Eva Burck and his daughter Esta Jo Schifter of Philadelphia.       
 WEINSTEIN--Harvey J., 82, adored and devoted father and grandfather. Cherished by his children Lori, Mark, Deb, and Dan; Celebrated by his grandchildren Justin, Chloe, Jessica, Kyle, Emma, Rachael, and Hunter; Loved by his longtime partner Susan, her children Gail and David, and as ''Pop'' 
 WERBEL--Edward, age 83, of Scottsdale, AZ formerly of Oceanside, NY and Long Beach, NY. Beloved husband of Nettie. Died peacefully on Friday, May 18. Eddie was a former Democratic Party leader of Oceanside, NY. Former Deputy County Clerk of Nassau County and longtime Chief Engineering Admin
 WOODESON--Keith K., passed away on May 11, 2007 in New York City. Cherished husband of Alicia. Survived by a daughter, Diana (Lloyd Clater), granddaughters Maise and Phoebe, nephew, Nicholas Woodeson. Born and educated in England, served in the RAF, entered the field of advertising, London,
 ZICKEL--Lewis. The West Point Jewish Chapel Fund mourns the death of our founding Vice President who supervised the construction of the Jewish Chapel at West Point. He served as Chairman of the West Point Jewish Community Council that met monthly for the past 10 years. He was instrumental i
 FULTON--Robert E. Dear Bob, hard to believe six years have gone by since that fateful night. Everyday we think of you and miss you. Brilliant Emmy-award winning photographer, astounding pilot, charming, talented wit, gifted teacher, wonderful musician, and rare friend. We know you are flyin
 Robert N. Buck, a distinguished pilot who in the 1930s crossed the continent at record speed, flew a light plane higher than anyone had done before and photographed ancient ruins of the Yucatán from the air for the first time -- all by the age of 20 -- died on April 14 in Berlin, Vt. He wa
 Anthony M. Brooks, who led a network of saboteurs who delayed German reinforcements for weeks after the Normandy invasion, died on April 19 in London. He was 85. The cause was stomach cancer, said M. R. D. Foot, a historian and friend of Mr. Brooks. Mr. Brooks was 20 when he
 BERMAN--Meyer, memorable, thoughtful and caring. He lived life to the fullest and will be missed by all who knew him. Harriet and Dan Dorfman       
 NEWMAN--David died peacefully at age 81 after a long illness. Beloved and devoted husband of Dorothy; cherished father of Meryl and Karen and sons-in-law Phil and Rick; adored grandfather of Jonathan, Andrew, Liz, and Alex. He graduated with a BA from CCNY, and MBA from NYU. He had a distin
 TIGHE--Robert F., of New York, on May 18, 2007. Devoted father of Jeffrey K. and his wife Anna. Dear brother of Ethel Rickey. Bob was survived by and loved by friends everywhere. Bob worked on Wall Street for 35 years, he was former partner of Bear Stearns, also worked for Sandler O'Neill f
 ZICKEL--Colonel Lewis L., died May 13, 2007, 80 years old. He was a Korean War hero and an alumnus of The U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He spent many years devoting his time and skills as a Structural and Architectural Engineer to many projects at the Academy. He was buried at West P
 DAVIDSON--Nathan J. May 21, 1999. Thank you, God, for the gift of his life -a joy to so many, an inestimable treasure to me. -KMD       
 Eugen Weber, the Romanian-born, English-educated American historian who was one of the world's foremost interpreters of modern France and an authority on modern Europe, died Thursday at his home in Los Angeles, where he had taught at U.C.L.A. and was a former dean of its College of Letters 
 HILLEL--Meyer, 100 years young, peacefully passed away on Sunday, May 20, 2007. A longtime resident of Teaneck and Fort Lee, NJ, he was the devoted husband of the late Ethel Hillel, loving father of Roberta Epstein Getzoff (Roger), admired grandfather of David (Beth), Lauren (Marc) and Jill
 MINCIELI--Michael J., loving and beloved father of Michael and Dennis, father-inlaw of Debra, grandfather of John and Jena Allee, David Allee and Elaine Cohen, and Joey and Janet Quintana, great-grandfather of Jack, Will and Elijah. Born December 5, 1915, died May 20, 2007. A sweet man and 
 NEWMAN--David. Our dear friend. Our loss is painful but our memories are sweet. You were a wonderful friend and we greatly enjoyed being with you and Dorothy. Our condolences to his wonderful family. We will miss you very much. Dee and Arthur Spatt       
 SELONICK--James B., 81, died peacefully at his Cincinnati home, May 18, 2007. Beloved husband of Peggy Frieder Selonick, father of Ellen, James and William; grandfather of seven treasured grandchildren. Born in New York, graduate of Townsend Harris High School; Ensign in the US Navy during 
 STEVENS--John, 92, of North Branford and Madison, CT died peacefully May 15th after several months of declining health. A recipient of the Yale Medal in 2003, he was also Trustee Emeritus of Quinnipiac University, Past President of the UConn Foundation and a former Trustee of Kent School an
 SWEENEY--John A. H. Winterthur Museum & Country Estate marks with profound sorrow the death of its esteemed curator emeritus, John A. H. Sweeney, on May 17. His scholarship and leadership were tremendously significant to Winterthur and to the American decorative arts community. He joined th
 KRATZMAN--E. Arthur, M.D., 87, of Freehold, NJ, died May 21, 2007. Surviving are his wife, Alice C. Kratzman and brother, Vincent C. Kratzman of Lahaina, Hawaii. He was predeceased by his first wife, Ruth L. Kratzman in November 1977. Also surviving are sons E.A. Kratzman, III, and his wife
 OSTRAU--Eleanor. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member Eleanor Ostrau. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Stanley and other members of his family. Allen J. Ross, President       
 REILLY--Martin W., 69, retired writer. Beloved husband of Dinah; father of Colin and Maura; brother of Mary; dear uncle of several nieces and nephews, died on May 20th of cancer. He was predeceased by brothers John, James, Gerard and Francis. His intelligence, dry wit and kindness made his 
 CAVAGLIERI--Giorgio, was a great figure in his adopted city. An elegant, energetic and talented architect, he was admired and engaged by the leading figures of his time, Bob Moses, Joe Papp, and the Villages led by Margot Gayle who saved the Jefferson Market Courthouse. As a refugee from fa
 Roy De Forest, a Bay Area artist whose paintings depicted a comical, crowded frontier land of people and animals in patchworks of scorched, textured color, died on Friday in Vallejo, Calif. He was 77 and lived in nearby Port Costa. His death was confirmed by George Adams, his New Yo
 Stanley L. Miller, a scientist whose spectacular discovery as a young graduate student pioneered the study of the origin of life on earth, died Sunday at a hospital near his home in National City, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said his brother, Donald Miller.       
 Kenneth L. Sokoloff, an economic historian who was a leading expert on the role the United States patent system played in technological and productivity advances in the 19th century, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 54. The cause was liver cancer, said his father, Dr. Louis Sok
 GLYNN--Eugene David, M.D., psychiatrist and art critic, died on May 15, 2007, of lung cancer. He was 81. The son of Isidore Glynn and Tillie Sheinbaum, he was born in Passaic, NJ, and raised by his stepmother, Frieda Helman. A WWII Naval veteran, he attended college and medical school at NY
 HOLMES--Dr. Douglas. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the loss of our longtime colleague and friend, Dr. Douglas Holmes. Dr. Holmes' influential research on issues affecting the elderly have been internationa
 MERRITT--John C., of Bedford, NY, on May 22nd, 2007, at age 91. Real Estate developer. He is survived by his wife, Natalie Hussar Merritt and his two children, John Jr. and Susan Coates, his four grandchildren, Kevin, Cameron, Allyson, and Chelsea, his sister Marjorie, and numerous nieces a
 RANIERI--Robert, died May 21, 2007, age 56, after a long illness. He was born October 31, 1950 in Englewood, NJ, to Connie and Carl. He attended Fairfield University and worked in the pharmaceutical advertising industry in NYC for 25 years. He lived with his family in Bronxville for 20 year
 VOISIN--Stuart J. The members of the NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases Board wish to express their sincere sympathy at the passing of Stuart J. Voisin a former Trustee of the HJD Board. Our heartfelt sorrow goes out to his entire family. Norma Smith, Chair of the Board Robin L. Smith, M.D., M
 WEIL--Martin, passed away on May 22nd. A resident of South Orange, NJ, and Delray Beach, FL, he was the devoted husband of Marjorie, loving father of Peter, Pam, Nancy and David, admired grandfather of Daniel, Eric, Melissa, Matthew, Adam and Lindsay. A graduate of Townsend Harris High Scho
 Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, who received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1991 for studying the boundary lines between order and disorder in materials like liquid crystals and polymers, died Friday in Orsay, a Paris suburb. He was 74. His death was reported by the newspaper Le Monde, whic
 Douglas Holmes, a noted social psychologist who spent his career investigating means of improving social services for people at both ends of the life cycle -- children and the elderly -- died on Wednesday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 73 and also had a home in Manhattan. The c
 Harvey J. Weinstein, a formal wear manufacturer whose kidnapping and survival after 12 days in a barrel-shaped pit near the Hudson River in Manhattan made headlines around the country in August 1993, died on May 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. He died after a long illness, h
 KAISER--Philip M., died May 24, age 93, after a brief illness. Survived by his wife of 67 years, Hannah Greeley Kaiser; his three sons, Robert G., David E. and Charles R.; and four grandchildren. Services 1pm Friday, May 25, at Adas Israel Synagogue, 2850 Quebec St. NW, Washington, D.C.    
 KELNER--Eugene J., age 91, of Coconut Creek, FL, formerly of New Rochelle, NY, passed away May 23, 2007. Beloved husband of Marian Pine Kelner; Loving Father of Susan Kelner Freeman and Cliff Freeman and Roger Lawrence Kelner; Cherished Grandfather of Joseph James Kelner and Max Randall Kel
 LIFLAND--Joseph, died May 22, 2007, at age 90. Chemist, teacher, avid tennis player into his 80s. Beloved husband, brother, father, grandfather, loyal friend. Survived by his wife Joan, his sister Helen Cohen, his daughters, Sandy Lifland Rubin, Laurie Levey, Michele Lifland, and Ellen Bakk
 SILVERSTEIN--Peter Alan, died peacefully at home in the company of his devoted family on May 24. Beloved husband for 45 years of Rosalind. Loving father of Michele and her husband Richard Furman, Keith and his wife Shari. Grandfather of Matthew, Samantha and Gabriella. Cherished son of Libb
 STECKEL--Cantor Harold, on May 20, at 87 years of age. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Flora, sons Mark and Joph, daughters-in-law Cynthia and Beth, and grandchildren Jenna, Carly, Henry, Isabel, George, and Lily. A graduate of City College with a B.S. and MBA. Worked as the Medicar
 WEIL--Martin, passed away on May 22nd. A resident of South Orange, NJ, and Delray Beach, FL, he was the devoted husband of Marjorie, loving father of Peter, Pam, Nancy and David, admired grandfather of Daniel, Eric, Melissa, Matthew, Adam and Lindsay. A graduate of Townsend Harris High Scho
 WHELAN--Richard. Cultural historian; noted curator and author; biographer of three legendary photographers, Robert Capa, Alfred Stieglitz, and Cornell Capa, Founding Director of the International Center of Photography, Richard was Consulting Curator of the Robert and Cornell Capa Archives a
 Philip M. Kaiser, a former ambassador to Austria, Hungary and Senegal who served as a diplomat or political appointee under every Democratic president from Harry S. Truman to Jimmy Carter, died Thursday in Washington. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, said his son Charles.        
 Harold E. Froehlich, a resourceful engineer who applied the principles of aeronautics and balloons to help design the Alvin, the deep-diving exploratory submarine used to recover a misplaced hydrogen bomb in the 1960s and to explore the Titanic wreck, died on May 19 in Maplewood, Minn. He w
 ALPERSON--Leo, on May 24, 2007. Beloved husband of June, loving father of Ruth, Myra and Philip, father-in-law of Rockwell and Jane, doting grandfather of Jeremy, Sadie and Reva. A sweet, wonderful and caring man, beloved by all, he was born on May 31, 1920 in Omaha, NE. He served in the US
 DWORK--Bonnie, widow of Dr. Kermit G. Dwork, loving mother of Johnny Dwork and his wife Lieve Maas, sister of Anna Englander, daughter of the late Otto and Gertrude Englander. Contributions can be made to ''Doctors Without Borders.'' Memorial service: 5pm, Tuesday, September 18, 2007, The E
 GLAZER--Bennett, 81, passed away at his home on May 22, after a long battle with respiratory disease. Bennett was and will continue to be known as the founder of Graphic Image and for his 50 years of design work in the publishing industry. His company, now run by his children, created books
 ROTHSTEIN--Robert Zachary, 79, died peacefully May 23, 2007, his wife Barbara and children Jeff and Laurie at his side, after a five year battle for life. Graveside service 11am Sunday, May 27, at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale. Donations to Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation.       
 TIEDER--William P., died May 23rd, 2007, age 98. Husband of the late Myra Tieder, loving father of Martha and Bob Plotnick, Susan and Sy Allis, devoted grandfather to William and Jacqueline Grae, Eric Grae, Beth and Victor Wittenberg, Marnina Allis, special great-grandfather to Talia, Amira
 WEINSTEIN--Harvey. A beautiful man with a great soul and a warm smile for everyone. He was a wonderful industry big brother for me. I never met a man who didn't love Harvey Weinstein. Dick Lembeck       
 Kawika Kapahulehua, who, in 1976, as the seasoned captain of the first ocean-voyaging canoe to sail from Hawaii to Tahiti in perhaps 600 years battled fierce storms, becalmed seas and a mutiny, died on May 17 in Honolulu. He was 76. Ben Finney, the anthropologist who wanted to prove
 ALPERSON--Leo, on May 24, 2007. Beloved husband of June, loving father of Ruth, Myra and Philip, father-in-law of Rockwell and Jane, doting grandfather of Jeremy, Sadie and Reva. A sweet, wonderful and caring man, beloved by all, he was born on May 31, 1920 in Omaha, NE. He served in the US
 ARNOFF--Jack, age 83, on May 25, 2007, of Roslyn Heights, NY. Beloved husband of Yola, devoted father of Diann Gruosso and Valerie Le Gaspi. Cherished grandfather of Gregg, Eric, Eva and Michael. Proudly served in the US Marine Corps, honorable WWII veteran. He will always be remembered for
 BROPHY--Raymond. Con gregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Raymond S. Brophy. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Dr. David M. Posne
 CAAMANO--Raphael, Reverend, beloved and esteemed priest of Opus Dei who died at Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts on May 21 at the age of 82. He was born in Ferrol, Spain, graduated from the Spanish Naval Academy and the School of Naval Architecture in Genoa Italy. He retired with honor from the
 DENNIS--Charles C., passed away on May 22nd, 2007 after a short illness. Survived by his wife Barbara and children Charles, Meg and Faith.       
 DINEEN--Cornelius E. (Neil), of Hartsdale passed away on May 24, 2007. He was 75 years old. Mr. Dineen was a 37 year employee of NYCTA MABSTOA Division. He was a bus driver, driving the Lexington Ave. Line, Manhattan 100 Street Bus Depot. He is predeceased by his late wife Bridget M. Dineen
 GLAZER--Bennett, 81, passed away at his home on May 22, after a long battle with respiratory disease. Bennett was and will continue to be known as the founder of Graphic Image and for his 50 years of design work in the publishing industry. His company, now run by his children, created books
 GOLDMAN--Charles. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Teachers, Parents and Students of the Hannah Senesh Community Day School are profoundly saddened by the untimely loss of our beloved friend and leader, Chuck Goldman. President of the Board 2003-2006, and its dedicated member from 200
 HESSERT--Richard Collings, 83, passed on May 23rd. Born in Los Angeles on November 29th, 1923, Dick was Navy Officer during WWII and a graduate of Thunderbird. His career in International Banking took him to Cuba, Columbia, Mexico and the Carribean. In addition, his love of travel extended 
 IHLE--William Arthur, Dr., of Delray Beach, Florida died on May 24, 2007 after a noble life of 92 years. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Elizabeth Tracy Ihle. Dr. Ihle will be sorely missed by his family: John Ihle and George Thulin of Hypoluxo, Florida, Kathy and Joseph Sweeney of S
 LORDI--William J., died on May 24th, 2007, age 86. Devoted husband, father and grandfather. Graduated St. John's University in 1943. World War II veteran. Coowner of Lordi Petroleum. Member of American Legion Post 754. Member of the New York Athletic Club since 1938; former NYAC Governor, a
 PERTSCHUK--Leo, age 86 of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of NY, died May 19, 2007. He is survived by his loving wife of 57 years, Gladys, his children Daniel, Nina, son-in-law Darryl Clopper and two grand-daughters, Sarah Pertschuk and Marissa Clopper. Leo, also, is survived by his brother, Mi
 ROWLEY--Henry Nelson, Jr. Died peacefully at home in New York City on Thursday, May 24. Hank was born in Lake Forest, IL in 1928. He attended Yale University and served in the Korean War before pursuing a career on Wall St. Upon retiring, Hank devoted his time to volunteer tutoring in New Y
 STECKEL--Cantor Harold, on May 20, at 87 years of age. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Flora, sons Mark and Joph, daughters-in-law Cynthia and Beth, and grandchildren Jenna, Carly, Henry, Isabel, George, and Lily. A graduate of City College with a B.S. and MBA. Worked as the Medicar
 VOISIN--Shep, January 11, 1930-May 20, 2007. Stuart J. ''Shep'' Voisin, beloved father of Jeanne and Nancy, husband of Helene Netter and the late Dulcie Jane Gecker. Carpe Diem was his philosophy, and seize the day he did as a member of the NYSE, founder of Stuart Coleman & Co., mentor to m
 Charles Nelson Reilly, who acted and directed on Broadway but came to be best known for his campy television appearances on talk shows and ''Match Game,'' died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his p
 Indar Jit Rikhye, a major general in the Indian Army who was a key military adviser to United Nations peacekeepers around the world and then founding president of a research institute devoted to training peacekeepers, died May 21 in Charlottesville, Va. He was 86. The cause was resp
 ARNOFF--Jack, age 83, on May 25, 2007, of Roslyn Heights, NY. Beloved husband of Yola, devoted father of Diann Gruosso and Valerie Le Gaspi. Cherished grandfather of Gregg, Eric, Eva and Michael. Proudly served in the US Marine Corps, honorable WWII veteran. President of The Flynn-Hill Elev
 AUERBACH--Martin L., died on May 26, 2007. Survived by his loving wife Mildred, devoted children Phyllis, Michael and his wife Magalis, and beloved grandchildren Jennifer and Joanna. A memorial service will take place at a later date at Riverdale Temple.       
 CAAMANO--Raphael, Reverend, beloved and esteemed priest of Opus Dei who died at Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts on May 21 at the age of 82. He was born in Ferrol, Spain, graduated from the Spanish Naval Academy and the School of Naval Architecture in Genoa Italy. He retired with honor from the
 GOLDMAN--Charles. The Board of Directors and Staff of FEGS Health and Human Services System deeply mourn the passing of Chuck Goldman, our dear colleague and friend. His extraordinary Stewardship of the UJA-Federation Community Trust for Individuals with Disabilities, in partnership with FE
 GORDON--Jack L., of New Canaan, CT, passed away on May 26, 2007 at the age of 78. Survived by his wife Zahava, and five children. Services to be held at 12PM on Monday, May 28, 2007 at Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home, 2900 Summer St., Stamford, CT.       
 HARTNETT--William J., on May 26, 2007, at age 87. Beloved husband of Eleanor Joan (nee Dowd). Loving father of Pat, Jane and William Jr., and father-in-law of Jim and Tom. Adored grandfather of Kerri, Kelly, Jimmy, Megan and Chris. Dear brother of the late Joseph, Margaret and Eleanor. Deco
 OLDHAM--Brent, passed away on May 22, 2007 in Murray, Utah. Brent was born in Salt Lake City, Utah on June 18, 1948. He lived in New York City pursuing his passion for the arts. We were touched by his energy, wicked sense of humor, and his passion for life. He will be missed but not forgott
 STAPEN--Manuel, MD, age 92, of New York, NY. It is with great sorrow that we announce the passing of this prominant psychoanalyst who died peacefully in his sleep on May 25, 2007. Born in Brooklyn, NY on August 19, 1914 , he served as a medical officer during WWII. After further training he
 SULLIVAN--John N. (Jack), of Port Washington, NY died May 25, 2007 at the age of 79. Beloved husband of MaryAnne. Loving father of Susan Graham, Karen Garry, Kelly Dennis and John Sullivan. Cherished grandfather of Katie, Ryan, Kieran, Dylan and Riley. Graduate of St. Andrew Avellino (1941)
 James Beck, a Columbia University art historian who became well known as a critic of what he viewed as the ruinous conservation of world masterpieces, including Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was cancer, according to Columb
 AUERBACH--Martin L., died on May 26, 2007. Survived by his loving wife Mildred, devoted children Phyllis, Michael and his wife Magalis, and beloved grandchildren Jennifer and Joanna. A memorial service will take place at a later date at Riverdale Temple.       
 BECK--James H. Professor James H. Beck, 77, one of the world's foremost scholars of Italian Renaissance art, died Saturday, May 26 in New York. Professor Beck was known as a great teacher and as a mentor to generations of students at Columbia University, where he was a member of the Departm
 FEINSILVER--Barry Jay (Fein). Born October 29th 1943, left this world peacefully on May 29th 2007. Husband of Jeanne, Father of Kimberly, Tracy, Allen and his wife Anna - Helene. Most loving Grandpa to Matthew Peter, the light of his life, born on his birthday in 2005. Son of the late Karl 
 FORGERON--Harry V., of Baldwin, NY, age 86, died May 24, after a two year battle with cancer. Born and raised in Chatham, MA, Harry attended NYU School of Journalism. After serving in the Army Air Corps during WWII, he joined the Sports Department of the New York Times, and enjoyed a 42 yea
 JAMES--David William. Born David William James on April 25, 1949 in Norman, Oklahoma to John and Mary James and beloved by those who knew him, David passed over, after a long and courageous battle with lung cancer on Saturday, May 26, 2007 at 2:28pm surrounded by his loved ones at the home 
 KUBISCH--Ambassador Jack B., died peacefully on May 7th in Southern Pines, NC. A former Charge d'Affaires to France, Assistant Secretary of State, Ambassador to Greece, and VP of the National Defense University, he is survived by his wife of 63 years, Constance Rippe Kubisch, and his childr
 LOW--Martin L., of Sleepy Hollow, NY, died on May 25. A WWII fighter pilot, he was at Pearl Harbor and D-Day. He owned a motion picture studio in Manhattan. He was recognized by the NY State Assembly for his work as Chairman of the Ossining Open Door Family Medical Centers. He is survived b
 ROWLEY--Henry Nelson, Jr. Died peacefully at home in New York City on Thursday, May 24. Hank was born in Lake Forest, IL in 1928. He attended Yale University and served in the Korean War before pursuing a career on Wall St. Upon retiring, Hank devoted his time to volunteer tutoring in New Y
 SHAPIRO--Herbert, 86, died May 15, 2007 in West Palm Beach, FL. Born in Bronx, NY. Served as New York City Deputy Comptroller and New York Supreme Court Judge. Survived by his wife of 64 years, Barbara; children Madelyn (Allison), Mitchell and Douglas; sister Florence Schneiderman; and gran
 Dr. Tod H. Mikuriya, a California psychiatrist who was widely regarded as the grandfather of the medical marijuana movement in the United States, died on May 20 at his home in Berkeley. He was 73. The cause was complications of cancer, his family told California news organizations. 
 BILLIK--Gene, of Livingston, NJ, and Boca Raton, FL, died at home on May 29, 2007, after a five year battle with cancer. Devoted husband of the late Marilyn Billik. Born January 1, 1927 in Flushing, NY, attended Storm King School and Brown University. He began his long career in the spirits
 BRAHMS--Ronnie S. Died May 28th, 2007. He is survived by his lifetime companion Michael Netski, his daughter, Claudia, two brothers and his loving friends and family. Ronnie was a compassionate and loving artist who brought beauty and perspective into everybody's lifes. A memorial service w
 CLEEMAN--Abe. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished member, father of our member, Dr. James Cleeman. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 COLTEN--Harvey R. M.D., was an esteemed colleague who contributed to Columbia University Medical Center in immeasurable ways during his time as vice president and professor of pediatrics. In administering our research and academic programs as CUMC vice president, Dr. Colten added value to o
 DEMMERLE--Peter K., on May 24, 2007. The partners, counsel, associates and administrative staff of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed partner, colleague and dear friend, Peter, after his courageous and inspirational 8-year battle with ALS. Peter was a le
 GALAMBOS--Peter. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Peter Galambos. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Irene and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas and Lawrence Glass, Pres.       
 GREW--Henry Sturgis, of New York City and West Palm Beach, Florida, died suddenly on May 25th, 2007 in Florida. He had lived in Boston and Newport, Rhode Island. He is survived by a sister, Selina Grew Rossiter of Lincoln, Massachusetts, and two brothers, Joseph Clark Grew of Boston and Rob
 LIPTON--Alan, The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA mourns the death of Alan Lipton husband of Bonnie Lipton, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. June Walker, National President Morlie Levin, National Executive Director
 MATTHEWS--Kenneth. Age 60, the ''Mayor of 93rd Street'' passed away in his home on May 28, 2007. Beloved husband of Jane, father of Joshua and Jesse, brother of Robert, and friend of too many to mention. An iconoclast in every way he left a mark on everything he touched. Nothing will ever b
 STADELMAN--Egon, P. A native of Berlin, Germany, adored husband of Marian (nee Stern) passed away peacefully in his home in Riverdale at age 96 on May 27, 2007 after suffering a stroke four and a half years ago. He was the son of Ferdinand and Margarete Stadelman. His father died in WWI. Hi
 Parren J. Mitchell, who as the first black elected to Congress from Maryland led the Congressional Black Caucus and spearheaded programs to aid minority-owned business, an effort he viewed as the second phase of the civil rights movement, died on Monday in Baltimore. He was 85. The 
 Earl Ubell, a science reporter and editor familiar to generations of New Yorkers for his wide-ranging reports in newspapers and on television, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. He was 80 and had lived in Hackensack, N.J. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his wife
 Jörg Immendorff, a German painter best known for crowded scenes depicting an acidic, often autobiographical comedy of art, politics and history, died on Monday at his home in Düsseldorf. He was 61. He died of complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's diseas
 CUTLER--Evelyn, (nee Gurlitz), loving wife of the late Philip, adored mother of Barbara, Ezrol, and Ronald Cutler, cherished grandmother of Lisa, Curran, and Paula Gladstone, great-grandmother of Jordan, Spencer, and Sydney. Services Today 10:30 am, Parkside Chapels. $(6$)CUTLER--Ho
 EIBER--Bernard M. Devoted husband of the late Hon. Geraldine T. Eiber. Loving father of Elissa (Aaron) Tessler and Bruce (Edna Hammer) Eiber. Adored grandfather of Rebecca, Ahna, Emma, Alec, Daniel, Sam and Cole. Former President of the Queens County Bar Association. Services private. For i
 FELDMAN--Robert D., age 87, Roslyn Harbor, NY. Beloved husband of the late Shirley Feldman. Devoted father of Donald Feldman and his wife Ellen, and Lesley Decker Lucas and her husband Stephen. Treasured grandfather of Ilana Decker, Doug Feldman, Rachel Decker and Matthew Feldman. Loving br
 GARRETT--Stanley. Loving husband of Sonja. Devoted father of Michael (Cavarly) Garrett and Jennifer (Per) Olsson. Adoring grandfather to Avery and Brynn Garrett and Marcus Olsson. Died May 29, 2007, at age 76. Services today 11:30 am at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street. In li
 GRASS--Louise. The Jewish Agency for Israel extends sincere condolences to Alex Grass, past Chairman of the Board of Governors, and to his family, on the loss of his beloved wife, Louise. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Zeev Bielski, Chairman of the Exe
 GREW--Henry Sturgis, of New York City and West Palm Beach, Florida, died suddenly on May 25th, 2007 in Florida. He had lived in Boston and Newport, Rhode Island. He is survived by a sister, Selina Grew Rossiter of Lincoln, Massachusetts, and two brothers, Joseph Clark Grew of Boston and Rob
 NEUWIRTH--Richard. Testrite Instrument Co., Inc., mourns the loss of Richard Neuwirth. Testrite was founded by Richard's father, Herman Neuwirth in 1919. Everyone at Testrite knew Dick to be a kind and caring individual. Dick is survived by his wife Eileen, daughter Shelby Richardson, son-i
 Sam Kagel, a mediator and arbitrator whose career settling labor disputes ranged from the rowdy San Francisco docks of the 1930s to the N.F.L. fields of the early 1980s, died on May 21 in San Francisco. He was 98. His son, John, announced the death. In 1982, a strike by Nati
