 Dr. Gordon Randolph Willey, a Harvard archaeologist who broadened the study of vanished societies from the examination of the tombs of the elite to include the economic and social lives of ordinary people, died on Sunday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89. A prolific scholar of pre-Colum
 John P. Morris, a battle-scarred Teamsters firebrand who rose to vice president of the union and was called ''the last of the Molly Maguires,'' died on Sunday in Philadelphia. He was 76 and lived a few yards from his old union hall there. The cause was complications of arterial surg
 Msgr. George G. Higgins, for decades a major adviser to the nation's Roman Catholic bishops, an outspoken supporter of organized labor and an influential figure in improving ties between Catholics and Jews, died yesterday in LaGrange Park, Ill. He was 86 and lived much of his life in Washin
 Bob Akin, who twice won the 12 Hours of Sebring, America's oldest automobile endurance race, died on Monday of injuries sustained during a test run last Friday. Akin, of Pocantico Hills, N.Y., was 66. He was testing a 1988 Nissan GTP ZX-Turbo he planned to drive last weekend in the 
 David Wood, a leading soloist with the Martha Graham Dance Company for 15 years and the founder of the dance program at the University of California at Berkeley, died at home in Berkeley on April 21. He was 77 and also lived in New York. The cause was complications from Parkinson's 
 Ismith Khan, an American writer and teacher whose tales of his native West Indies drew generations of readers, died on April 24 in Brooklyn. He was 77 and lived in Park Slope. He suffered a long illness, his family said. Mr. Khan's ear for dialect and his ability to render i
 Livingston L. Biddle Jr., a descendant of the storied Philadelphia family who wrote the legislation that led to the creation of the National Council on the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts and was chairman of the endowment from 1977 to 1981, died today at a hospital here. He was
 Mohan Singh Oberoi, who as a penniless hotel clerk in Simla, India, mortgaged his wife's jewelry to buy the first hotel in an international luxury chain that bears his name, died yesterday at his home near New Delhi. He was 103, although for years he had said he was born in 1900 bec
 Roger V. Gould, an influential sociologist who sought explanations for social upheavals large and small in the subtle texture of interpersonal relationships, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 39 and made his home in New Haven. The cause wa
 Donald Wilson, a scriptwriter and BBC producer who had the idea of making a television version of ''The Forsyte Saga,'' which became an international success, died on March 6 at his home in Gloucestershire, England. He was 91. In 1965, he and three other writers began work on a scri
 Siegbert Freiberg, who escaped death in the Holocaust by a series of seeming miracles and became perhaps the first survivor to tell his story in English on American radio, died at his home in Middle Village, Queens, on April 20. He was 75. The cause was congestive heart failure, his
 Yevgeny Svetlanov, the renowned Russian conductor who led his nation's State Symphony Orchestra for 35 years and was a guest conductor of orchestras around the world, died Friday at his home in Moscow, The Associated Press reported, quoting Russia's NTV television. He was 73. A lead
 Eric Louis McKitrick, a Columbia University historian who chronicled the evolution of the American republic, died on April 24 at Amsterdam House, a home for the elderly, in Manhattan. A resident of the Upper West Side, he was 82. Dr. McKitrick was best known for his ''Andrew Jackson
 Sir Peter Shepheard, a British architect, planner and landscape designer who was a dean and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, died on April 11 at his home in London. He was 88. Sir Peter, who was knighted in 1980 for ''services to architecture,'' emphasized the relation
 Yevgeny Svetlanov, the renowned Russian conductor who led his nation's State Symphony Orchestra for 35 years and was a guest conductor of orchestras around the world, died Friday at his home in Moscow, The Associated Press reported, quoting Russia's NTV television. He was 73. Mr. Sv
 A. Searle Pinney, a former Connecticut state Republican chairman, died April 30 at his home in Brookfield, Conn. He was 81. A lawyer and former state legislator, Mr. Pinney was a retired senior partner of Pinney, Payne, Van Lenten, Burrell, Wolfe & Dillman, in Danbury. He was a co-f
 Antoine Riboud, the banker's son who built one of the biggest food groups in Europe and exercised a far-reaching and often paternalistic influence over its global empire, died at his Paris home early Sunday. He was 83. Mr. Riboud, who built the Danone group over several decades befo
 Paul Szasz, a longtime United Nations expert on international law who helped draft Constitutions for the new states of Namibia, in southwest Africa, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was carved out of the former Yugoslav Federation, died April 30 at his home in Germantown, N.Y. He was 72.  
 Kevyn Aucoin, the makeup artist who attained an unusually wide-reaching fame ministering to faces both iconic and ordinary, died yesterday at the Westchester Medical Center. He was 40. The cause was complications relating to a pituitary brain tumor, said Marcy Engelman, his publicis
 Lou Thesz, the most celebrated professional wrestler of the mid-20th century and one of the last who relied on physical skills rather than show business gimmicks, died on April 28 in a hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 86 and had undergone triple-bypass surgery and aortic valve replacement t
 Michael Bryant, a quietly virtuosic character actor who was a mainstay of the National Theater in England for the last 25 years, died on April 25 at his home in Richmond, Surrey. He was 74. With diligence and modesty, Mr. Bryant played characters of the widest range, in plays by Sha
 Michael Todd Jr., son of the producer of ''Around the World in 80 Days,'' who took over his father's production business and made a Smell-o-Vision film that combined movies with changing odors, died on Sunday at his home in County Carlow, Ireland. He was 72. The cause was lung cance
 Morris Herbert Shamos, a nuclear physicist and science educator who attracted attention with his arguments that only those seeking careers in science should have to wrestle with a full scientific curriculum, died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 84. The cause was a stroke, his
 Buster Brown, one of the last veteran tap stars who danced together as the Copasetics, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Brown had a long and varied career as a teacher, a choreographer and a dancer on stage and tel
 Franklyn M. Branley, a persistent advocate for improving science education for children both as the chairman of the Hayden Planetarium and as the author of more than 140 books, died on Sunday in Brunswick, Me. He was 86. Dr. Branley took the helm of the planetarium at the American M
 Otis Blackwell, who wrote ''All Shook Up,'' ''Don't Be Cruel,'' ''Great Balls of Fire,'' ''Fever'' and more than 1,000 other songs, and had a major part in shaping the sound of rock 'n' roll, died on Monday in a hospital in Nashville, where he lived. He was 70. The cause was a heart
 Dan Devine, a head football coach for 22 years at three colleges and for four tumultuous years with the Green Bay Packers, died yesterday at his home in Phoenix. He was 77. The cause was complications from heart surgery 15 months ago, his family said. He underwent quintuple bypass s
 Howard Merrill, a writer for radio and television who began his career as a child film actor and later produced a play on Broadway, died on April 20 at a hospital in Los Angeles, his family said. He was 85 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mr. Merrill, who was born in New York City
 Joel B. Leff, a founder and co-chairman of the investment management firm Forstmann-Leff Associates, died at his Manhattan home on Tuesday. He was 67 years old and had suffered from cancer. Mr. Leff combined an eclectic approach to investing with an equally eclectic approach to coll
 William Tutte, a theoretical mathematician who contributed substantially to breaking codes in World War II, died on May 2 in Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario. He was 84. The cause was congestive heart failure complicated by cancer of the spleen, the University of Waterloo announced. He w
 David Riesman, the sociologist whose 1950 scholarly book, ''The Lonely Crowd,'' unexpectedly tapped a deep vein of self-criticism among Americans and became a perennial best seller, contributing ideas and descriptive phrases to popular culture, died yesterday in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 92 a
 Yves Robert, a popular French actor, director and producer best remembered for his 1961 movie about street urchins, ''The War of the Buttons,'' and his 1970's spy comedies, ''The Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe'' and ''The Return of the Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe,'' died today in
 Earl Shaffer, who put one foot in front of another about five million times to become the first person to hike the Appalachian Trail in one trek, and then was first to do it in the opposite direction, north to south, died on May 5 at a hospital in Lebanon, Pa. He was 83. The cause w
 Joseph Bonanno, who founded one of the nation's most enduring Mafia families and rose to the pinnacle of organized crime in America, died yesterday in Tucson, where he had been living for many years. He was 97. His death was reported by his lawyer, Alfred Donau, according to The Ass
 J. Royden Stork, a flier in the Doolittle raid over Japan that thrilled an American home front reeling from the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died on May 2 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Kay. On April 18, 1942, crew
 Joseph Bonanno, who founded one of the nation's most enduring Mafia families and rose to the pinnacle of organized crime in America, died Saturday in Tucson, where he lived for many years. He was 97. His death was reported by his lawyer, Alfred Donau, according to The Associated Pre
 Edward M. Carey, an oil industry executive who helped finance the political ambitions of his younger brother Hugh L. Carey, the former governor of New York, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 85. After founding the Peerless Oil and Chemical Company with his father in the late 1930'
 Peter Bauer, a British economist who challenged the utility of giving development aid to poor countries, believing that it often perpetuated their poverty, died on May 2 at his home in London. He was 86. The Cato Institute, a conservative research institution in Washington, was sche
 Stanford Calderwood, a businessman and arts patron who brought the Masterpiece Theater to public television in America, died Thursday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Belmont, Mass. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his attorney, John M. Cornish, sa
 Dr. Hugh Francis Hicks, a dentist whose fascination with light bulbs is said to have begun when his mother tossed one into his crib and culminated in his owning 60,000 bulbs, died on May 7 in Baltimore. He was 79. He had a heart attack, his daughter Frances Hicks Apollony, said.    
 James P. McFarland, who led General Mills through a period of robust growth before retiring in 1977, died on Friday at his home in Wayzata, Minn., a suburb of Minneapolis. He was 90. Mr. McFarland spent his entire career with General Mills, the Minneapolis food giant, which as recen
 Joseph Lowenbach Steiner, a co-founder of the company that made toys like the Bubble Rocket and the Easy-Bake Oven, died on Saturday at a hospital in a suburb of Cincinnati. He was 95. Mr. Steiner was born in Baltimore and was raised in Cincinnati. He obtained a bachelor's degree in
 Douglas Pike, who arrived in Vietnam as a government information officer the same month the Vietcong were formed and spent the rest of his life explaining the war in eight books and scores of articles, died on Monday at a hospital in Lubbock, Tex. He was 77. His wife, Myrna, said he
 John Sharnik, an award-winning television producer and news executive for CBS, died on Saturday at his home in Rowayton, Conn. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter Pamela Jones said. Mr. Sharnik received an Emmy for his 1972 documentary ''A Night i
 Sam Walton, who as a rookie started every regular-season game at right tackle during the New York Jets' Super Bowl season of 1968, but who ended up a homeless vagrant, was found dead in a vacant apartment in Memphis on Sunday night, the police said. He was 59. Lt. Walter Norris of t
 Dr. Charles M. Rick, whose encyclopedic knowledge of the evolution and genetics of the tomato enabled him and other botanists to produce healthier and tastier tomatoes through crossbreeding, died on May 5 in Davis, Calif., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of California. H
 José Lutzenberger, one of the principal founders and most outspoken advocates of the environmental movement in Brazil, died Tuesday in Pôrto Alegre. He was 75. He died after a heart attack, his associates said. For three decades, first as an anti-establishment gadfly and e
 Robert G. Wilder, the former chairman and president of Tierney Communications, an advertising agency in Philadelphia, died on May 1 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 82. The cause of death was heart disease, his wife, Annabel, said. Mr. Wilder joined Lewis & Gilman, a pre
 Xavier Montsalvatge, a Spanish composer and music critic best known for the lush, Neo-Romantic works he composed in the 1940's and 1950's, died on May 7 at his home in Barcelona. He was 90. Mr. Montsalvatge composed numerous ballets, orchestral works and concertos, but for many year
 Bill Peet, an illustrator, screenwriter and children's book author almost as well known for his tempestuous, 27-year relationship with Walt Disney as for the cartoon characters he created, died last Saturday at his home in Studio City, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Peet, who wrote and illus
 Joe Black, the Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher who was the National League rookie of the year in 1952, the year he also became the first African-American to win a World Series game, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, The Associated Press reported.
 Kenneth A. Lohf, a Columbia University librarian who in a quarter century more than doubled the university's collection of rare books and manuscripts, died on May 9 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke, 
 Michael Maas, a versatile New York architect who had been president of the Fifth Avenue Association, died last Sunday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. The cause was complications from cancer, said his wife, Jane. 
 Warren Brandt, a painter whose dalliance with Abstract Expressionism gave way to a style of realism and domestic warmth, died May 5 in Sykesville, Md., his family said. He was 84 and lived in New York City. Mr. Brandt was born in Greensboro, N.C., and moved to New York after high sc
 Alec Campbell, the last survivor of 50,000 Australians who fought in the heroic, ill-fated campaign against the Turks at Gallipoli in 1915, helping forge their new nation's identity, died May 16 at the age of 103. He died in Hobart, in Tasmania, where he was born in 1899, one year b
 Noel Da Costa, a composer and professor at Rutgers University, died on April 29 at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. A member of New York's small but close-knit group of African-American composers, Mr. Da Costa wrote music that drew from the American classical tradition, spirituals 
 Harry L. Sears, a lawyer and New Jersey Republican legislative leader who delivered a briefcase holding $200,000 in $50 and $100 bills from the financier Robert Vesco to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign in 1972, died on Friday in Denville, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Mount 
 Peter F. Cannell, a former director of the Smithsonian Institution's book-publishing division and an expert on songbirds' voices, died on Saturday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 47. The cause was a brain tumor, said his brother Michael. Dr. Cannell had worked in editori
 Richard W. Zirinsky Sr., a real estate developer and owner active in Queens and Brooklyn since the 1940's, died on May 18 in Southampton, N.Y. He was 86 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. Over the years, his family firm, Richard Zirinsky Associates, has built, renovated, lease
 Stephen Jay Gould, the evolutionary theorist at Harvard University whose research, lectures and prolific output of essays helped to reinvigorate the field of paleontology, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Rhonda Roland Shearer.
 Walter Lord, the narrative historian whose books -- most notably ''A Night to Remember,'' a riveting account of the sinking of the Titanic -- were characterized by intensive research and exhaustive interviews, died on Sunday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 84. Mr. Lord, a onetime
 David Abrahamsen, a forensic psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and author who wrote book-length analyses of Richard M. Nixon and of David Berkowitz, the serial killer known as Son of Sam, died on Monday night at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 98. Dr. Abrahamsen, who was born in Norway a
 The Rev. Dr. M. Moran Weston, who led one of Harlem's most prominent churches, helped found what became the nation's largest black-owned financial institution and built housing for thousands, died on May 18 at his home in Heathrow, Fla. He was 91. In 1948, Dr. Weston joined with 14 
 Sir John Gorton, who became prime minister of Australia by accident and voted himself out of office after three years, died in Sydney on Sunday. He was 90. Sir John, the first Australian senator to become prime minister, succeeded Harold Holt, who drowned while surfing near Melbourn
 Charles W. Roll Jr., a political polltaker for prominent leaders like Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York and co-author of a classic text on polling, died on May 12 at a hospital in Trenton. He was 73 and lived in Lawrenceville, N.J. The cause was coronary and vascular complicati
 Jack Kruschen, a versatile character actor whose six decades in movies and television included an Oscar nomination for best supporting actor for his 1960 role in ''The Apartment,'' died on April 2. He was 80. He had been ill for several years, his family said, and died while traveli
 Alan P. Bell, a Kinsey Institute researcher who helped conduct a pioneering large-scale study that countered the notion that homosexuals were maladjusted, died on May 13 in Bloomington, Ind., where he lived. He was 70. The cause was a stroke, his wife, Shirley, said. In 1968
 Sam Snead, who used golf's smoothest swing to win a record 81 PGA Tour events and about 70 other tournaments, died yesterday at his home in Hot Springs, Va. He was 89. Snead had a series of small strokes during the past two months, his daughter-in-law Ann Snead said. In the 
 Dr. Richard D. Mudd, who waged a campaign for seven decades seeking to clear his grandfather of complicity in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, died on Tuesday at his home in Saginaw, Mich. He was 101. ''I suppose I'm crazy, but the whole conscience of America must purge itself 
 Sihung Lung, the Taiwanese actor best known to Western audiences for deft portrayals of conflicted fathers in the Ang Lee films ''Pushing Hands,'' ''The Wedding Banquet'' and ''Eat Drink Man Woman,'' died on May 2 in Taipei. He was 72. The cause was liver failure, The Taipei Times r
 Paul Giel, a football and baseball all-American at the University of Minnesota who could not replicate that success as a major league pitcher, died Wednesday in Minneapolis. He was 70. Giel collapsed in his car while returning from the Minnesota Twins-Texas Rangers baseball game in 
 Bob Grossman, an automobile enthusiast who drove racing cars, sold foreign cars and liked to draw cars, died last Monday in a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 79 and had lived in Southampton, N.Y. The cause was multiple myeloma, said a member of the staff of the W. S. Clancy Memori
 John de Lancie, the longtime principal oboist of the Philadelphia Orchestra and then director of the Curtis Institute of Music, died on May 17 at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 80. The cause was leukemia, The Associated Press reported. He was born in Berkeley, Calif
 Michael Camille, an influential and provocative scholar of medieval art at the University of Chicago, died on April 29. He was 44. The cause was a brain tumor, a spokesman for the university said. Mr. Camille was noted for bringing contemporary critical theory and social per
 William A. Diaz, an authority on the Hispanic cultures of the United States who taught at the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota, died on May 18 at his home in St. Paul. He was 56. The cause was a brain tumor, the St. Paul Pioneer Press rep
 Genichi Kawakami, who insouciantly combined the delicate notes of the piano and the earsplitting roar of the motorcycle to create the Yamaha empire, died on Saturday at a hospital near Hamamatsu, the industrial city in central Japan where Yamaha is based. He was 90 years old. In 193
 Mamo Wolde, who became a hero in Ethiopia when he won the marathon at the 1968 Mexico City Olympics, but who spent most of the past nine years in prison, died Sunday at his home in Addis Ababa. Wolde was unsure of his age, but was believed to be 70 or 71. He had a variety of ailment
 Creighton Miller, an all-American halfback who was a member of a prominent Notre Dame football family and later helped organize the National Football League Players Association as its lawyer, died last week in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 79. Miller's body was found Friday at his ap
 Wes Westrum, a superb defensive catcher for the New York Giants' pennant-winning teams of 1951 and '54 and later the manager of the Mets and the San Francisco Giants, died Tuesday in Clearbrook, Minn. He was 79. The cause was cancer, the Cease Funeral Home in Bagley, Minn., reported
 Howard Sternheim, longtime president of the Thriftway Drug Corporation, a chain of 13 New York City drugstores including the East Side landmark Zitomer's, died on April 22 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was leuke
 Wallace Markfield, the author of ''To an Early Grave,'' ''Teitlebaum's Window'' and other satirical novels that earned him critical praise as a Brooklyn literary descendant of James Joyce, died last Friday at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 75 and lived in Port Washington, N.Y. Th
