 ALTMAN--Mel. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Mel Altman on October 27, 2005. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held on October 28, 2005. Freddie Roman, Dean Jean Pierre Trebot,
 BOWES--John Garland. Born August 30, 1928, died at his home in San Francisco, Wednesday, October 26, 2005. A successful entrepreneur and avid art collector, Mr. Bowes is survived by his wife, Frances Fay Bowes, daughters, Alexandra Bowes of San Francisco, Diana Bowes Weller of Westport, CT 
 BURSTEIN--Robert. Born in Newark, NJ on May 24, 1924, died after a long illness on October 31. Cherished husband of Janet, father of Mark and Julie, father-in-law of David Calle and Mark Maben, grandfather of Zeke & Micah Maben. Bob served as a navigator in the US Army Air Corp in WWII, att
 CUDDEBACK -- Robert. Of Glen Cove, NY, died Sunday, October 30, at the age of 76. Beloved husband of 38 years to Katherine. Beloved father to Cheryl, Robert, Brad and John. Favorite grandfather, great-grandfather, brother, uncle and cousin. Best friend to many, friend to all. Graduate of Ke
 ELKIN--Milton, M.D. Beloved husband of the late Gloria Elkin. Loving father of Phil Elkin, Karen Segall and Laura Friedman, and grandfather of David, Michael, Suzanna, Steven, Jessica and Craig. Services will be held at 9:30 AM on Thursday, November 3, at Chapel in the Woods, Congregation K
 GARY--Arthur James. A former NBC broadcaster, died at his home in New York City Monday October 31, 2005. He was 91 years old. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Rosemary Chodorov Gary. During the glorious days of radio, and on into the television era, the sonorous voice of Arthur Gary c
 ISRAEL--Lawrence J. Peacefully, on October 30. Age 87 years. Beloved husband of the late Beulah. Adored father of Shelly Zirkes and Bret. Loving grandfather of Valerie and Linda. Caring greatgrandfather of Samantha and Alexa. NYU graduate. W.W. II Navy veteran, and partner in the architectu
 JACOBS--John H. 60, died on October 29, 2005, after a one year struggle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Marion Seltzer, his sons, Sammy and Simon, and his brother, Michael. A funeral will be held at Park West Riverside, Amsterdam and 76th Street, at 10 AM on Monday, Octo
 LICHTENBERG--Harold G. June 2, 1924 to October 30, 2005 of Woodmere, New York and Boca Raton, Florida. Devoted husband of the late Laura. Loving father of Maxine Gerson, Jeffrey, Peter (Jamie) and Susie Blumenfeld (Todd) and PopPop to Jessica, Jordan, Ryan, Brett, Nicole, Katie & Jennie. Ve
 WEISL--Edwin L. Jr. On October 27. Died after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Barbara B. Weisl. Loving father of Angela Jane Weisl. Funeral services Thursday, 10 am, at St. Thomas More Church, 65 East 89 Street. For further information, please call Frank E. Campbell, the Funeral
 WEIZNER--Oscar. The New York Philharmonic mourns the passing, on October 29, of Oscar Weizner, 83, a violinist with the Orchestra from 1962 until his retirement in 2003. A native of Dresden, Germany, he came to the U.S. in 1938 and subsequently performed with the Pittsburgh Symphony, the Ra
 SHUTTLEWORTH--Edwin. We honor the memory of Ted Shuttleworth, a central figure of the Quogue community for decades, who in addition to his service to the village made all that knew him more aware of nature, the environment, the beauty of our surroundings. Judy and George Carmany       
 Paul Reynard, a French-born painter who was active for more than three decades as an artist and teacher in New York, died on Friday at his home in Monsey, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Ellen, said. Mr. Reynard, who had five solo exhibitions at the Brew
 Endre Marton, a prize-winning journalist who sent the first account of the Hungarian uprising of 1956 just weeks after serving a year in prison for covering the events preceding it, died yesterday at the home of a daughter in Manhattan. He was 95. His daughter Kati Marton confirmed 
 Lloyd Bochner, a classically trained actor who played suave heroes and villains for more than 50 years in theater, television and film, died Saturday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his son Paul Bochner said. Mr. Bochner began working pro
 BAKER--William O. The Board of Trustees, faculty, students, and staff of The Rockefeller University deeply mourn the passing of our cherished friend, Dr. William O. Baker. A man of remarkable abilities and compassionate humanism, Bill Baker was a vital force in shaping The Rockefeller Unive
 BOWES--John Garland. Born August 30, 1928, died at his home in San Francisco, Wednesday, October 26, 2005. A successful entrepreneur and avid art collector, Mr. Bowes is survived by his wife, Frances Fay Bowes, daughters, Alexandra Bowes of San Francisco, Diana Bowes Weller of Westport, CT 
 CASTALDI -- Filomena M. (Cortellini). 81 years, at Princeton Care Center, on October 30, 2005. Wife of the late Ralph J. Mother of Teresa M. Castaldi Morton and Andrew R. Castaldi and his wife Elizabeth. Grandmother of Andrew Emil Castaldi. For information call M. David DeMarco Funeral Home
 COLEMAN--John W., MD, Born Jersey City, NJ. Age 66, of New York City and Ocean Port, NJ, died Saturday, October 29, 2005. Dr. Coleman was a Clinical Associate Professor of Urology at the Joan & Sanford Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York Presbyterian Hospital. U.S. Navy Ve
 ELLIOTT -- John Jr. The Browning School notes with sadness the death of ''Jock'' Elliott '38. With his brother ''Oz'' '41, he was a mainstay of the Browning Alumni Association and a living link to the school's past. Their father, John Elliott '08, was one of John A. Browning's first student
 FRANKEL - Jerome. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and send our heartfelt condolences to his family. The Solomon Schechter School of Queens       
 GORDON--Robert E., MD. The faculty of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of New York Medical College and the administration of the Medical College, note with great sadness the death of Robert E. Gordon, M.D. We offer our deepest sympathies to his family. Dr. Gordon was a remarkable
 HART--William. The Board of Trustees of The Heckscher Foundation for Children mourn the passing of our extraordinary Trustee, Bill Hart, who served with distinction on our Board for over 37 years. His wise counsel, judgement and commitment to the welfare of children and families in need wil
 LANG--Anicutsa. Died October 29, 2005 in Rishon-Lezion, Israel. Beloved wife of Igo; mother of Shlomo and his wife Laura, grandmother of Talia. Services 12:30PM today at Sanctuary of Abraham and Sarah, Paramus, N.J.       
 LEVI--Harold H. III. Age 66 of Armonk, NY and Jupiter, FL, on October 31, 2005. Devoted husband of Ann. Loving father of Andy and Loren and father-in-law of Cindy and Neil. Brother of Douglas and Michael. Proud Poppie of Jared, Chase, Harris, Jordan and Charlie. His love of his family will 
 LICHTENBERG--Harold G. June 2, 1924 to October 30, 2005 of Woodmere, New York and Boca Raton, Florida. Devoted husband of the late Laura. Loving father of Maxine Gerson, Jeffrey, Peter (Jamie) and Susie Blumenfeld (Todd) and PopPop to Jessica, Jordan, Ryan, Brett, Nicole, Katie & Jennie. Ve
 MURRAY--James W. The Board, staff, and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter mourn the loss of James W. Murray, father of Board member, Anne M. Murray. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving family. Susan V. Kayser, Mark A. Zurack, Co-Chairs Lou-Ellen Barkan, Pre
 PIFER--Alan. We deeply mourn the loss of Alan Pifer, past president of Carnegie Corporation of New York, who passed away on October 31 at the age of 84. Throughout Pifer's career, his focus was on social justice and the rights of disadvantaged groups, including women. In particular, beginni
 RONAN--Thomas P., 96. Died on October 31. He retired in 1978 after 35 years as a political reporter and foreign correspondent for The New York Times. This gentle man, famous for his abundance of understanding, insight, wisdom and outstanding professionalism as a journalist, enjoyed warm fri
 STRATTON--Richard A. Age 58, of Franklin Lakes, NJ, died on Monday, October 31, 2005 surrounded by his loving family. He will remain in the hearts of his devoted wife Lori, his children Marlena, Anna, Nicholas, Christina, Matthew & his grandchildren Gillian and Isabel. Beloved son of Patric
 WEILAND - Irving. Passed away on October 27, 2005. He was the beloved husband of the late Anne Weiland and devoted father of Andrew, Edward, and Ellen Williams. He was the cherished grandfather of Sarah Holland, Dan Weiland, Jeffrey Weiland, Sophie Williams and Julia Williams. He was the gr
 WEISL--Edwin L., Jr. The Robert Lehman Foundation, its Directors and Associates, and the staff of the Robert Lehman Collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, mourn the death of our beloved colleague. Eddie brought to life a multifaceted, informed enthusiasm that was the wonder and envy 
 ROSENFIELD--Maurice. Age 91, of Glencoe, IL, Lawyer and Film and Theatrical Producer. Producer of the movie, ''Bang The Drum Slowly'' and the plays ''Barnum'' and ''Singin' in the Rain''(New York and London) as well as numerous other productions. His wife Lois of 54 years predeceased him tw
 SHUTTLEWORTH--Edwin. We honor the memory of Ted Shuttleworth, a central figure of the Quogue community for decades, who in addition to his service to the village made all that knew him more aware of nature, the environment, the beauty of our surroundings. Judy and George Carmany       
 Tony Jackson, a brilliant jump shooter and a two-time all-American who led St. John's University to the championships of the National Invitation Tournament and the Holiday Festival in an era when those tournaments showcased college basketball's finest talent, died Friday in Brooklyn. He was
 ARDITTI--Fred. Noted economist and chief economist of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) from 1980 to 1982, died October 30 of pancreatic cancer. Dr. Arditti pioneered futures contracts that transformed how businesses and individuals manage risk, most notably the CME's Eurodollar futures
 BAKER--Dr. William O. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Fund for New Jersey mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Dr. William O. Baker. A Trustee for 30 years and then Emeritus, it was our privilege to share responsibility with him for the stewardship of the Foun
 CHURCH--John Cyril Thatcher, 69, died on October 27, 2005, was born in New York City. Educated at Cornell University and Carlton College. Lived and worked all over the world and known as a great linguist. He leaves behind his loving wife Maria and siblings Dale, Marilyn, Valentine and Willi
 GOLDEN--Herbert Lincoln. 91. Of Laurel, NY, died peacefully at home on October 31 of lung and heart conditions. A journalist with the Philadelphia Record and Variety, officer with United States Navy on two oceans in W.W. II. At Bankers Trust Co., worked with post-war Hollywood film industry
 HART--William. The Board of Trustees of The Heckscher Foundation for Children mourn the passing of our extraordinary Trustee, Bill Hart, who served with distinction on our Board for over 37 years. His wise counsel, judgement and commitment to the welfare of children and families in need wil
 HENDERSON -- Skitch. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved friend, the renowned pianist and conductor Skitch Henderson, on November 1, 2005 in New Milford, Connecticut at the age of 87. Mr. Henderson was a deeply valued member of our Steinway Art
 HOROWITZ -- Murray. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Murray Horowitz. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Phyllis, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
 JOSEPH--Andrew Mark. Age 59, left us on November 1, 2005 in NYC. Loving and beloved husband to Terry for 37 years. Retired as NYC Deputy Comptroller for Budget, former associate director NYS Financial Control Board, former official Social Services Employees Union Local 371. He held an MBA f
 KAHN--Judge Martin. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our friend and member, Judge Martin Kahn. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 LEVI--Harold H. III, With broken hearts we send our love and sympathy to Ann, Andy, Cindy, Loren, Neil and his adored grandsons. You will be in our hearts forever. Ellen, Ted, Holly and Gary       
 RUBIN--Marvin K. November 1, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Devoted father of Stella Rubin. Loving brother of Norma Fredrics. Graduate of City College Class of 1938 and NYU College of Dentistry Class of 1942. After graduation, Dr. Rubin served in the US Air Force. He opened his d
 SAXE--Irving Henry, M.D., 95. Of New York City and Rumson, NJ, died Monday, November 1, at home in NYC. He was predeceased by his wife, Patricia Saxe and a daughter, Nancy Saxe, M.D. Surviving are a son, Richard Saxe of Fair Haven, NJ, two daughters, Kathryn Meredith and Virginia Critton, b
 SCHOEN--Alfred. We deeply mourn the passing of Alfred Schoen, founding chair of the Gesher Foundation. He and his late wife, Carla, are responsible for putting Gesher on the map, and left an eternal legacy for the people of Israel. Condolences to his family, Michael and Miriam, Schula and P
 SMETANA--John A. Jr. of Wainscott, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Born Derry, PA February 5, 1928. Cherished husband of the late Virginia and his beloved late Julianne. Died of heart condition on October 31, 2005 at the residence of his close friends. A Veteran in the U.S. Navy, Submariner Service,
 STRATTON--Richard A. Age 58, of Franklin Lakes, NJ, died on Monday, October 31, 2005 surrounded by his loving family. He will remain in the hearts of his devoted wife Lori, his children Marlena, Anna, Nicholas, Christina, Matthew & his grandchildren Gillian and Isabel. Beloved son of Patric
 TRINKOFF--Irwin H. Passed away in his home in Valeria on November 1, 2005. Dearest and loving husband of Maxine, father of Lloyd, Donna and Alexandra, grandfather of Daniel, Jonathan, Kyra, Ben, Zach and Dylan, brother of Burt and brother-in-law of Arline, father-in-law of Jan and Jeff. Irw
 WEISL--Edwin L., Jr. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of this devoted benefactor and good friend, who for more than three decades generously supported the Museum and played an important role in the Robert Lehman Foundation's work with the Metropolitan.
 WILDER--Steven. The Board of Directors, staff and clients of We Can are deeply saddened by the passing of Board member and Chair, Steven Wilder. Mr. Wilder has left a legacy of great compassion and generosity to New York's poor and homeless population and his talents, kindness and wonderful
 GOLDSTEIN--Richard. Kauff McClain & McGuire mourn the passing of Richard Goldstein, our esteemed former partner, and extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Pat, his children and grandchildren.       
 HARRINGTON--Donald Szantho, Minister Emeritus of The Community Church of NY Unitarian Universalist died on September 16 in Romania at age 91. A memorial service will be held at Community Church, 40 East 35th Street, telephone 212.683.4988, on November 6 at 11 AM. His ministry in NYC began i
 Skitch Henderson, the conductor, pianist and radio and television entertainer who provided music and repartee for the ''Tonight'' show in the 1950's and 60's and who founded and led the New York Pops, died on Tuesday at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 87. His death was announc
 William O. Baker, a prominent scientist and a former head of Bell Laboratories who advised five presidents on scientific affairs, died on Monday in Chatham, N.J. He was 90 and had lived in Morristown, N.J., for many years. The cause was heart failure, his son, Joseph, said. 
 BURNS--Ruth. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of God's Love We Deliver are saddened by the loss of Ruth M. Burns, mother of Donald A. Burns, dear friend and generous supporter. We extend our deepest condolences to Don and his family. Nancy Mahon, Exec Director Sylvia Vogelman Mi
 CUDDEBACK -- Robert. Of Glen Cove, NY, died Sunday, October 30, at the age of 76. Beloved husband of 38 years to Katherine. Beloved father to Cheryl, Robert, Brad and John. Favorite grandfather, great-grandfather, brother, uncle and cousin. Best friend to many, friend to all. Graduate of Ke
 ELKIN--Milton, M.D. The Department of Nuclear Medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center notes with great sadness the death of Dr. Milton Elkin. Dr. Elkin was founding Chairman of the Department of Radiology of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine a
 HENDERSON -- Skitch. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved friend, the renowned pianist and conductor Skitch Henderson, on November 1, 2005 in New Milford, Connecticut at the age of 87. Mr. Henderson was a deeply valued member of our Steinway Art
 HINCK--John Herman. Of City Island on November 3, 2005. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Christina Avery, Dr. John Anthony and Stephen Esq. Devoted grandfather of James, Stephanie, Erica, Matthew, Stevie, Angela and Clara. We will all miss his good humor, kindness and wide-ranging
 JOSEPH--Andrew. The officers and staff of the Social Service Employees Union Local 371 express their profound sadness at the untimely passing of Andy Joseph, union activist, officer, colleague and longtime friend. Andy's keen mind for numbers and political analysis, as well as his ability t
 MILROD -- Irving ''Whitey''. November 2, age 84. Survived by his cherished wife Diane, six children and 12 grandchildren. Whitey was a source of great strength and love to his nieces, nephews, cousins and colleagues. Funeral service today 1 P.M. Temple Sholom, River Edge, NJ.       
 SCHOEN -- Alfred. SAR Academy mourns the loss of our founder and former President. We extend condolences to his children Michael and Miriam, Shula and Paul, his grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President 
 STACK--Maurice D. Of Point Lookout, NY and West Palm Beach, died November 3. Loving and beloved husband of the late Catherine (O'Connor), loving father of Mary Jane Platt, Eileen Hennegan, Peter Stack and Clare Richer and beloved ''Maury'' to eight grandchildren. He was the son of the late 
 WEEN--Sidney. We mourn the passing of Sidney Ween on November 3, in the afternoon. Son of the late Samuel and Beatrice, beloved brother of Jerome, Joan, and the late Ruth and Helen. Devoted husband of the late Dorothy, adoring father of Jeffrey, Bonnie, Stephan and the late Pamela. Honored 
 WOLFENSON -- David. 93 years old, of New York City, passed away November 2 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He is survived by wife Beatrice, children Carol and Lewis, grandchildren William, Alana and Kelly, and great-grandchildren Zoe, Willy and Nathan. Burial was at Washington Cemetery, Brooklyn. 
 TRIBBIE--Joe, died Thursday October 20, 2005. A celebration of his life will take place on Saturday, November 5 at 4:30PM at the 4th Universalist Society, 160 Central Park West at 76th St in Manhattan.       
 Waldemar Nielsen, an influential and widely recognized expert on the workings of charitable foundations who wrote exhaustive, critical analyses of America's foremost philanthropies, their goals and their methods, died on Wednesday in New York, where he lived. He was 88. The death wa
 William L. McLaughlin, a radiation scientist who devised accurate and widely used methods for measuring the radiation absorbed by cancer patients and by many foods and commercial products, died Oct. 26 at his home in Lexington, Va. He was 77. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his fam
 Alan Pifer, under whose guidance the Carnegie Corporation of New York adjusted its educational focus to a wider context -- social and racial justice -- in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Monday in Shelburne, Vt. A former resident of Greens Farms, Conn., he was 84. His death was annou
 BOLLO--Jerome Jay. Of Southampton, New York, on November 4, 2005. Survived by his devoted wife, Grace, of 41 years; daughter, Geraldine Bollo-Goldstein; sons, Michael and Paul. Loving grandfather of four. Graduated from Manhattan College and served four years with the Army Air Corps during 
 DINCE--Bertrand A. Passed away at age 76 on November 4, 2005. Father to Adam, son to the late Louis and Evelyn Dince, he is survived by nephews David Dince, William Dince, niece Nancy Kelly, brother Paul and the many who enjoyed his music and talents as a teacher. Services to be held Sunday
 HENDERSON - Skitch. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved friend, the renowned pianist and conductor Skitch Henderson, on November 1, 2005 in New Milford, Connecticut at the age of 87. Mr. Henderson was a deeply valued member of our Steinway Arti
 LANDO--Robert. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Robert Lando. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Patti, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 NIELSEN -- Waldemar A. Passed away peacefully on November 2 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Marcia Kaplan Nielsen, his daughter Signe Nielsen, and his granddaughter, Marina Nielsen Galazidis. A Memorial Service will be held on December 2 at the Century Associat
 STACK--Maurice D. Of Point Lookout, NY and West Palm Beach, died November 3. Loving and beloved husband of the late Catherine (O'Connor), loving father of Mary Jane Platt, Eileen Hennegan, Peter Stack and Clare Richer and beloved ''Maury'' to eight grandchildren. He was the son of the late 
 WICENTOWSKI--Sidney. On November 4 at the age of 94. Beloved husband of Fannie (Solomon) for 73 years. Dear father of Frances (Matthew) Harris, Eleanor (Burton) Jaffe, David (Jane), Jerrold (Debby). Also survived by eleven grandchildren and eleven great-grandchildren. Loving brother of Gert
 R. C. Gorman, an internationally prominent Navajo artist whose portraits of voluptuous women in flowing traditional dress embodied the American Southwest for collectors around the world, died on Thursday at a hospital in Albuquerque. A longtime resident of Taos, N.M., he was believed to be 
 BJORK -- Robert William. Died on October 23 following a long and valiant battle with Parkinson's disease. Born in 1926, he grew up in Yonkers, and after law school, returned to New York City where he worked for the next 50 years as a litigator, prosecutor and eventually as a financial consu
 BROKKEN--James (''Jim'') R. Of NYC and Fire Island, died suddenly, Thursday, November 3, 2005 in Manhattan. Survived by his loving family and many devoted friends. For information: Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 212288-3500. A detailed notice will appear shortly.       
 DINSMORE--Dr. Richard B., 64, died October 30, 2005 at his home in St. Agatha, Maine after a struggle with cancer. He was born in New York City, March 26, 1941. He was the son of Robert W. Dinsmore and Guida Warell. He received his under graduate degree from Boston University and earned his
 FENTON--Malcolm. 82, of NYC died October 29, 2005 from cancer, at home, attended by his sons and longtime companion, Roslyn Rubin. Born March 19, 1923, he grew up in Altoona, PA, the son of Sara and Alex Festenstein. He received his BA from W&J College, BS from Carnegie Tech, and MS from Un
 GELSON--John F., 74. Of Lancaster, PA, was born in Brooklyn, NY and formerly of South Orange and Sea Girt, NJ, died at his home November 4th. He is survived by his wife Joyce M. He retired as President/CEO of Hamilton Watch and he is survived by six children, 14 grandchildren, 5 brothers an
 GOLDSTEIN--Marvin J. Of Rye, NY, died at 70 from a sudden and unknown illness on Tuesday, November 2, 2005 at Greenwich Hospital. He was born on March 28, 1935 in Brooklyn, NY to Abraham and Betty Feinglass Goldstein. He graduated with a B.S. in 1956 and a J.D. in 1959 from New York Univers
 GREGG--William Patrick. November 4, 2005. Beloved husband of Elizabeth. Loving father of Billy. Cherished grandfather of William. Devoted brother of Helen, Martin, John, the late Joseph, Katherine, Mary and Peter. A WWII veteran and dedicated and respected librarian at the New York Historic
 HUBBY--Frank Winfield III. Died on November 4, 2005, in his 99th year, a resident of Old Black Point, CT, and Princeton, NJ. He was the son of Frank Winfield Hubby Jr. and Alice Adams Hubby of Manhattan, great-grandson of L. M. Hubby, president and principal shareholder of the Cleveland, Ci
 JOSEPH--Andrew Mark. Age 59, left us on November 1, 2005 in NYC. Loving and beloved husband to Terry for 37 years. Retired as NYC Deputy Comptroller for Budget, former associate director NYS Financial Control Board, former official Social Services Employees Union Local 371. He held an MBA f
 MENDELSON--Michael. Age 63, died on Friday, November 4, 2005, in his Manhattan home after a year long struggle with cancer. He is survived by his wife, Mimi, and three children, Gideon, Shara and Lauren; his aunt, Dr. Sonia Sprung; his cousins, Edie Nadler and Jonathan Nadler, and their chi
 NIELSEN -- Waldemar A. Passed away peacefully on November 2 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Marcia Kaplan Nielsen, his daughter Signe Nielsen, and his granddaughter, Marina Nielsen Galazidis. A Memorial Service will be held on December 2 at the Century Associat
 ORR--George, Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the loss too soon of its Professor of Molecular Pharmacology and director of its Biodefense Proteomics Research Center. A native of Great Britain, Dr. Orr was a devoted member of the Einstein 
 PRITZKER--Leon. 83. Born June 26, 1922, died November 2, 2005. A loving husband, father and grandfather, passed from this world to live in the house of the Lord, November 2, 2005 in his home. Preceded in death by his brother, Bob Price. He is survived by his wife of 34 years MaryAnne Pritzk
 RINGLER--Dr. Milton E. Of Woodmere, NY, November 4, 2005. He was 89. Survived by his loving and beloved wife of 62 years, Diane. Adoring father of Robin and Cathy (Philip), extraordinary grandfather to Todd, Brad (Marianna), Daniel, Jamie, Drew and Dylan. His sweetness and generosity of hea
 SBAR--Sidney, M.D. On October 27. Loving husband of the late Dorothy. Beloved father and father-in-law of Eunice and Anthony, Victoria and George. Proud grandfather of Benjamin, Daniel, Alexander, Liza and Nicholas. Compassionate physician and devoted friend. He lives in our hearts always. 
 SCHWARTZ--Martin S., 80. October 30. Survived by loving partner of 40 years, Martin Rubenstein, sons Randy (Beth) and Caleb, granddaughter Deanna (Mark). World War II veteran, lifelong advocate for gay rights and social equality. Emeritus Professor of Social Work at Virginia Commonwealth Un
 STACK--Maurice D. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Maurice D. Stack, a Veteran member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White Jr., Historian       
 WEEN--Sidney. We mourn the passing of Sidney Ween on November 3, in the afternoon. Son of the late Samuel and Beatrice, beloved brother of Jerome, Joan, and the late Ruth and Helen. Devoted husband of the late Dorothy, adoring father of Jeffrey, Bonnie, Stephan and the late Pamela. Honored 
 WEILAND - Irving. Passed away on October 27, 2005. He was the beloved husband of the late Anne Weiland and devoted father of Andrew, Edward, and Ellen Williams. He was the cherished grandfather of Sarah Holland, Dan Weiland, Jeffrey Weiland, Sophie Williams and Julia Williams. He was the gr
 WILDER--Stephen F. 77, of New York City, died peacefully on October 27, after a long struggle with cancer. An urban transit advocate as well as environmental and community activist, he is survived by his wife, Miriam Fond, with whom he shared 35 years of that rarest of phenomena, a truly ha
 WRIGHT--Thew. Age 92, died October 25, 2005. Born in Buffalo, he graduated Yale in 1936. Awarded Bronze Star for infantry service '42-'45. An attorney with Wiggin & Dana in New Haven, CT, he is survived by children Thew, Alexandra and Clinton; and seven grandchildren. Condolences: beecheran
 MARK--David E. Deputy Asst Secy of State, US Ambassador, died September 17, 2005. A celebration of his life will take place on Sun, November 13, at 10:30AM at NYU Center of Global Affairs, 15 Barclay St., 4th Flr. Call Judy Franklin, 212-992-8380 to attend.       
 SCHWARTZ --Dr. Martin S. ICAPP (International Conference for Advancement of Private Practice of Clinical Social Work) mourns the recent death of its beloved president, Dr. Martin S. Schwartz. We will never forget him. In his honor we will establish a scholarship to continue his interest in 
 Chester L. Cooper, a retired United States diplomat who in the 1950's and 60's was a backstage player in many of the most critical negotiations of the cold war, died on Oct. 30 in Washington. He was 88. During his years in public service, Mr. Cooper often worked, as he later wrote, 
 E. Stewart Williams, an architect whose many works in Palm Springs, Calif., including a home for Frank Sinatra, helped define what became known as the Desert Modern style, died on Sept. 10. He was 95. He died at his home in Palm Springs, said Michael J. Stern, an artist who is writi
 Emile Capouya, an essayist, critic and publisher who late in life published his first story collection, ''In the Sparrow Hills,'' died on Oct. 13 at his home in East Meredith, N.Y. He was 80. His death was announced by his family. Based on Mr. Capouya's experiences as a youn
 BRIAN--Frank. 86. December 12, 1918, to November 5, 2005. Married 65 years to his devoted wife Goldie. Leaves behind two daughters: Natalie (Stanley) & Joyce (Al); three grandchildren: Francine (Marc), Andrew (Stacy) & Matthew; & five great-grandchildren. Most remembered for his strength, f
 BROWN--Bailey Warren. 92, died on November 5, in Bronxville. Born in St. Johnsbury, VT. Graduate of Andover and Yale, class of 1937. Served in the U.S. Navy 1940 to 1945, attaining the rank of Commander. President of Erkin Studios, garden ornament importers in New York, until retiring in 19
 FERRARI--Joseph Frank. On November 5, 2005. Of Bayside, NY. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Dear father of John & Joseph. Grandfather of Christopher, Michael, Maggie, Daniel, Nicole & Matthew. Father-in-law of Maureen & Shari. Brother of Toni Cusimano. Calling hours at The Fairchild Funeral Ch
 GOLDEN--Philip. Of Rye, NY, died November 4, 2005, age 92. Born in Poland, April 3, 1913, to Samuel & Sophie Golden. A WWII veteran having served in the Army, he worked as an attorney. Beloved husband of the late Harriet Golden. Cherished father of Sid Golden (wife Linda), Rita Fried (husba
 GREGG--William Patrick. November 4, 2005. Beloved husband of Elizabeth. Loving father of Billy. Cherished grandfather of William. Devoted brother of Helen, Martin, John, the late Joseph, Katherine, Mary and Peter. A WWII veteran and dedicated and respected librarian at the New York Historic
 HEROLD--Bernard. On November 5, 2005, at age 84. Loving husband of Tressa. Devoted father of Paula and Larry and daughter-in-law Michelle. Adoring grandfather of Spencer. He founded the NYSE firm of Bernard Herold and Company Inc, and never stopped going to work every day. He was a born tea
 MENDELSON--Michael. Age 63, died on Friday, November 4, 2005, in his Manhattan home after a year long struggle with cancer. He is survived by his wife, Mimi, and three children, Gideon, Shara and Lauren; his aunt, Dr. Sonia Sprung; his cousins, Edie Nadler and Jonathan Nadler, and their chi
 John Fowles, the British writer whose teasing, multilayered fiction explored the tensions between free will and the constraints of society, even as it played with traditional novelistic conventions and challenged readers to find their own interpretations, died on Saturday at his home in Lym
 Maurice Rosenfield, a civil liberties lawyer turned theatrical producer who helped bring several well-received shows to Broadway, including the Tony Award-winning musical ''Barnum,'' died on Oct. 30 in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 91 and lived in Glencoe, Ill. The cause was heart failur
 ARNOLD--Ruth. The East Hampton Tennis Club sadly joins with its old friend and Honorary Member Joe Arnold in mourning the loss of his wife Ruth. We remember the wonderful couple they were, on the courts and off, and wish, somehow, we could turn the clock back. Norbert Weissberg, President  
 BOOTH--James C.H., 93. Of Irvington, NY, a longtime employee of the New York Banking Department, died on October 18, 2005. He was the beloved husband of Kathryn Glendon Booth, loving father of Elizabeth Booth & Barbara Hambacher, and cherished grandfather of six and greatgrandfather of two.
 GOFFE - George. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Mae, and their loved ones. May his memory be for blessing and may his family be comforted amidst the mourners of our people for Zion and Jeru
 GOLDEN--Philip. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his children Sidney Golden, members Rita & Stephen Fried, Audrey & Barry Lesser and to the entire family. Aubrey L. Glazer, Rabbi Sarah A. Ze
 GOODMAN--Harrison D. On November 6, 2005. Beloved and devoted husband of Elaine, father of Douglas and John, brother of Rosemarie Tapfar. A University of Wisconsin graduate and a WWII veteran, he was a Professional Engineer, an ASHRAE Fellow, and a former Sr. Vice President of Joseph R. Lor
 MITLITZKY - George, Temple Beth Shalom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President       
 RINGLER--Dr. Milton. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Dr. Milton Ringler. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Diane and family. Mark Kirschner, President $(6$)RINGLER -- Dr. Milton. Temple Israel Lawrence, N.Y
 THOMPSON--Gerard ''Gerry'', 87. Of Hilton Head Island, S.C., died November 1. He served in World War II in the Army Air Force. He was formerly Executive Vice President in charge of Financial Services for Wall Street Division of Chemical Bank. Survived by his wife Barbara; children Gerard, J
 GLASSEROW -- Jeffrey L. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Jeffrey L. Glasserow. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held today at 10:30 AM, at the Holcombe-Fisher Funeral Home, 147
 MENDELSON--Michael. On November 4, 2005. The staff and Board of Directors of The New Group Theatre Company are deeply saddened and moved by the passing of our friend, our supporter and the Chairman of our Board, a man who gave generously of himself, shared with us his wonderful family and f
 Milton Elkin, who founded the radiology department at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 1954 and led it for 32 years, died on Oct. 31 in West Hartford, Conn. A former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., he was 89. His death was announced by the medical school, an affiliate of Yeshiva 
 Gordon A. Craig, a leading interpreter of modern Germany to the English-speaking world, died on Oct. 30 in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, according to Stanford University, where he taught from 1961 until retiring in 1979. Professor Craig reach
 BROKKEN--James R. May 24, 1941-November 3, 2005. Resident of New York City, NY, Fire Island Pines, NY and Palm Springs, CA died suddenly of a heart attack on Thursday, November 3, 2005 in Manhattan. Born May 24, 1941, the cherished third son of Edwin S. Sr. and Benita ''Bonnie'' Brokken, Ji
 CLARK--Donald G.C., M.D. Age 85, died November 4, 2005. Survived by his wife of 61 years, Ann Kiersted Clark, by daughter Alison Zorman and by sons Graham, Michael, and Peter. Also survived by eight grandchildren and one great granddaughter. Long-time attending surgeon, Memorial Sloan Kette
 FALEK--Dr. Arthur. 81, Professor Emeritus in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavorial Sciences, Emory University School of Medicine. Arthur Falek born March 23, 1924 in Brooklyn, NY died on November 7, 2005 from congestive heart failure. Dr. Falek was well loved for his humor and grace a
 FISHER--Lyon H. November 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Margaret (Maggie). Brother of David. In recent years he mentored and taught people of all ages at the Baruch College and will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him, especially those in the fellowship. Memorial service Friday, Nov
 GAMMON--Reginald, 84. Artist, died on November 4. Survived by his wife Jonni. Funeral to take place at St. Simon the Cyrenian Episcopal Church in Philadelphia on November 11, 11 AM.       
 GOODMAN--Harrison D. On November 6, 2005. Beloved and devoted husband of Elaine, father of Douglas and John, brother of Rosemarie Tapfar. A University of Wisconsin graduate and a WWII veteran, he was a Professional Engineer, an ASHRAE Fellow, and a former Sr. Vice President of Joseph R. Lor
 HUBBY--Frank Winfield III. Died on November 4, 2005, in his 99th year, a resident of Old Black Point, CT, and Princeton, NJ. He was the son of Frank Winfield Hubby Jr. and Alice Adams Hubby of Manhattan, great-grandson of L. M. Hubby, president and principal shareholder of the Cleveland, Ci
 PANZER--David M. After a short illness, he passed away from pneumonia on November 8 at the age of 58. Beloved partner and soul mate for 28 years of Charles Rosen, and son of the late Norma and Harry Panzer of Harrison, NY. He will be remembered for his sensitivity and kindness and mourned f
 WEISBERG--Fred. In his 66th year. Beloved husband of Janice. Devoted father of Lisa and Dale Rafferty, Julie and Cantor Cary Schwartz and Mindy Weisberg. Loving grandfather of Gabi, Luke, Ayla and Erica. Dear brother of Joan Dickson. Service 12 noon today at ''Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Mem
 WHITE--Jeff. President of JWT Atlanta, died Saturday, November 5, while on a business trip to Washington to attend the Annual Marines Corps Birthday Ball. The U.S. Marines played a key role in Jeff's life. He served during the Viet Nam War, from 196871, rising to the rank of Captain. But hi
 Thomas P. Ronan, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Oct. 31 in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 96. His daughter Catherine confirmed the death. Mr. Ronan was on the staff of The Times from 1942 until his retirement in 1978. From 1953 to 1962, he was a r
 Beland H. Honderich, the publisher and editor who transformed The Toronto Star from a publication focused on crime and sensationalism into an influential newspaper with Canada's largest circulation, died on Tuesday in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 86. The cause was complicatio
 Kocheril Raman Narayanan, India's first Dalit, or ''untouchable,'' president, died in a military hospital here on Wednesday evening, a Defense Ministry spokesman said. He was 85, according to the Press Trust of India, and he had been suffering from pneumonia and kidney failure. More
 EISENSTEIN--Joan B. Beloved wife of Howard Eisenstein, past President of 62nd Street East, Inc. Joan was a wonderful lady and a good neighbor and will be missed. Our condolences to Howard and his family-the Board of Directors, tenants, staff and Lawrence Properties.       
 FISHER--Lyon H. November 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Margaret (Maggie). Brother of David. In recent years he mentored and taught people of all ages at the Baruch College and will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him, especially those in the fellowship. Memorial service Friday, Nov
 FREUMAN--Henry, MD. Adored, cherished and beloved husband of Carol, father of David and Daniel, brother of Reuven and grandfather of Jason. Strong, elegant and a man of immeasurable grace, Henry brought enormous love to his family, compassion to his patients, intellectual rigor to his acade
 GLASSEROW--Jeffrey L. Age 55 years of Franklin Township, NJ, died Saturday, November 5, 2005, as the result of an airplane accident in Pohatcong Township, NJ. Born in the Bronx, NY, April 9, 1950, he had formerly resided in Port Washington, NY, before moving to Franklin Township, Hunterdon 
 MELAMED--Louis (Lou), 91. on November 8, 2005 in New York. TV/radio producer, writer and director. Husband of Syma for 60 years. Father of Fred and Jill and father-inlaw of Leslee. Grandfather of Lee and Alec. Also survived by his brother David Jack and nieces and nephews. Services Friday 1
 MELITA--Robert N. On November 9, 2005, of New York City, New York. Beloved husband of Anna-Marie. Devoted father of Isabella. Loving son of Anthony and Libby Melita. Also survived by his brother A.J. Family will receive friends on Thursday and Friday, 2-4 and 7-9PM at the Donohue Cecere Fun
 PANZER - David. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, David Panzer. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres.       
 PLOTKIN--Lawrence. Died suddenly at his home on November 7, 2005. Born in 1921 and raised in NYC, he was educated at Townsend Harris High School and City College. He received his Ph.D. in psychology from Columbia University and was a Professor Emeritus at City College of the City University
 REGAN--William J., 78. Died November 8, 2005 in Naples, FL. A memorial mass will be held Wednesday, November 16 at 10 AM at St. Williams Catholic Church in Naples. Memorials may be made to Xavier High School, 30 West 16th Street, NY, NY for scholarships in his name. Fuller Funeral Home Pine
 WETZSTEIN--Martin. On November 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Sara. Devoted father of David and Mark and father-in-law of Melissa and Sarah. Cherished grandfather of Samuel Scott. He will be missed by all who knew him. Services Thursday, 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam
 YOLTON--John William. Piscataway, New Jersey, has died in New Brunswick, New Jersey, at the Robert Wood Johnson Hospital. He was in his 83rd year. He and his wife, Jean (nee Sebastian) were married in 1945. His heirs are his wife and two daughters, Karin (Mrs. Bryant Griffith) and Pamela H.
 Alan A. Reich, the founder and president emeritus of the National Organization on Disability, a voice in public forums for those disabled in any way, died on Tuesday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 75. His death was announced on the Web site of the organization, which he ran until
 Fernando Bujones, whose pure classical technique, sheer power and bold temperament made him one of the first American-born male dancers to become an international ballet superstar, died early Thursday in Miami. He was 50 and had two homes in Florida: in Orlando, where he was artisti
 BERMAN--Herbert, 80. Died November 4. Publisher of the Brooklyn Graphic newspaper for 50 years. Husband to the late Phyllis. Adored by children Jonathan and Lisa, three stepchildren and seven grandchildren. He is survived by wife Joyce. His humor and personable nature made him legendary and
 BLOCK--Leonard N. (December 21, 1911-November 9, 2005). Survived by Adele Block, wife of 69 years, children, Peggy Danziger and Thomas Block; grandchildren, Michael and Katie Danziger and Jonathan and Alison Block; great-grandchildren, James, Robby, Charlie and Teddy Danziger and Jake and J
 FREUMAN--Henry, MD. Adored, cherished and beloved husband of Carol, father of David and Daniel, brother of Reuven and grandfather of Jason. Strong, elegant and a man of immeasurable grace, Henry brought enormous love to his family, intellectual rigor to his academic interests, and a brave h
 GOTTLIEB--Jay. All of us at Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner are stunned and deeply saddened by the sudden, tragic loss of our partner, Jay Gottlieb, in an automobile accident. There was no finer colleague, friend, father, husband. His devotion to his family and our firm and his con
 HELLMAN--Henry Martin. 85, of Lowell, IN. Professor Emeritus of Chemistry at New York University, died November 3, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Isabel (nee Paul) Hellman. He was born on July 4, 1920 in Gamla Nordsjo, Sweden, and immigrated to Gary, IN in 1927 with his family. He receiv
 KASDAN--John Martin, 66. Of New York City died in Boston on Wednesday. Born and raised in NYC, he practiced law, computer programming and was a professor at Columbia University School of Law for many years. He graduated Harvard in 1960, has a Master's in mathematics from Yale, PhD in mathem
 MELAMED -- Louis. We mourn the loss of our fellow member and dear friend, Lou. His presence in The Grill Room was a constant source of delight and good for more than a few laughs. Our love and best wishes to Syma and their family. Lou will be greatly missed. The Players       
 ROSEN--Lawrence. August 11, 1925--October 16, 2005. A patent attorney in Manhattan for forty years and an ardent patron of the arts, he traveled extensively and lived in Greenwich Village, London, and Tokyo. In 1992, he retired to Del Mar, California. Survived by brother Fred Rosen, sister 
 ROTNER--William D. Age 88. Loving husband of Babs. Treasured father of Shelley and Kenny (Tracy). The best grandfather of Emily and Emma. Dear brother of Jeannie. Services Friday, 11:30 AM at Temple Beth El of Great Neck, NY. ROTNER--William. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records wit
 Leonard N. Block, the retired chairman and chief executive of the Block Drug Company, a philanthropist and a former treasurer of Lincoln Center, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 93. The death was announced by his family, who said he had suffered from Alzh
 BLOCK--Leonard N. (December 21, 1911-November 9, 2005). Survived by Adele Block, wife of 69 years, children, Peggy Danziger and Thomas Block; grandchildren, Michael and Katie Danziger and Jonathan and Alison Block; great-grandchildren, James, Robby, Charlie and Teddy Danziger and Jake and J
 GOTTLIEB--Jay. All of us at Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner are stunned and deeply saddened by the sudden, tragic loss of our partner, Jay Gottlieb, in an automobile accident. There was no finer colleague, friend, father, husband. His devotion to his family and our firm and his con
 MARCUS--Dr. Jules A., 86, retired physics professor, died at home in CT. on November 5, 2005. Son of Julia Parks and Alexander Marcus, attended Ethical Culture and Walden Schools; graduated Yale, '40; married Ruth Barcan, '42; worked for the Navy in WW II; received PhD, Yale, '47; taught at
 Peter F. Drucker, the political economist and author, whose view that big business and nonprofit enterprises were the defining innovation of the 20th century led him to pioneering social and management theories, died yesterday at his home in Claremont, Calif. He was 95. His death wa
 BECK--Dr. Arthur. Age 90, on November 11, 2005 in Trumbull, CT. Born in Brooklyn. Devoted husband of the late Ruth Beck; beloved father of Dr. Lawrence & Alice Beck, Dr. Michael & Marcia Beck; adored grandfather of Sara, Andrew, Marissa, Morgen, and brother of Mildred Jonas. Dr. Beck was a 
 BLOCK--Leonard N. (December 21, 1911-November 9, 2005). Survived by Adele Block, wife of 69 years, children, Peggy Danziger (Dick) and Thomas Block (Marilyn Friedman); grandchildren, Michael Danzinger (Betsy), Katie Danziger (Steve Horowitz) and Jonathan and Alison Block; great-grandchildre
 BORN--Henry. The entire St. Luke's - Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our beloved friend and benefactor, Henry Born. Together with his late sister Mildred, they establish
 BRUNSWICK - John. Died peacefully at home in Connecticut on November 11, 2005. Beloved husband of Hilde for 63 years. Loving and loved father of Fred (Janet), Richard (Elizabeth) and Roger. Proud grandfather of seven grandchildren. He was a very nice man. Memorial services at 3 pm, on Tuesd
 BUCHIN--John D. Age 50, on November 11, 2005, in Los Angeles, CA, after a long, courageous battle against lymphoma. Beloved son of Jean and the late Irving, dear brother of Peter and brotherin-law of Marilyn, cherished uncle of Benjamin. Graduate of the Horace Mann School; B.A. University o
 CLARK--Donald G.C., M.D. The Members of the Society of Memorial Gynecologic Oncologists and the Division of Gynecology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center record with profound regret the recent death of their colleague and friend Donald G.C. Clark, M.D. Dr. Clark was a member of the G
 DE PEYSTER--James Abercrombie, age 89, died in Palm Beach, FL on November 7. He was the son of Frederic Ashton de Peyster and Alice Abercrombie Miller de Peyster. A descendant of Johannes de Peyster who came to New Amsterdam in 1645, he was of the 12th generation to be born on Manhattan Isl
 GILES--Patrick, 48, On October 13, after a thirteen month battle with Lymphoma. Patrick was a consummate sibling, friend, writer, critic, teacher, and New Yorker--a champion for the transforming power of culture, ideas and ideals. There will be a memorial mass said on November 18th at 7 P.M
 GOTTLIEB--Jay. All of us at Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner are stunned and deeply saddened by the sudden, tragic loss of our partner, Jay Gottlieb, in an automobile accident. There was no finer colleague, friend, father, husband. His devotion to his family and our firm and his con
 HASSMAN--Geoffrey, 60. Devoted son of the late Bobbe and Sid Hassman and loving brother to Ellen Hassman, passed away on November 7 in Hawaii where he has been living for the past three years. He was President and CEO of Geoffrey Hassman Design in Oahu. Known in New York as a playwright/arc
 HURWIN--Ellsworth B., 86, of Boca Raton, FL and Massapequa Park, NY, on Monday, October 24. Beloved husband of 60 years to Mollye L. Loving father of Ralph and Jeannine and Gene and Davida. Honored grandfather of Frazier. Son of the late Louis and Rose and devoted brother of the late Miriam
 KAPEL--Joseph G. January 1, 1927-November 11, 2005, in Rancho Mirage, CA. We mourn the loss of an inquisitive, creative, dear and gentle man. With heartfelt sympathy to Jay Koren, his partner of 52 years, from his many friends. Our pal Joe, gone too soon.       
 MARCUS--Dr. Jules A., 86, retired physics professor, died at home in CT. on November 5, 2005. Son of Julia Parks and Alexander Marcus, attended Ethical Culture and Walden Schools; graduated Yale, '40; married Ruth Barcan, '42; worked for the Navy in WW II; received PhD, Yale, '47; taught at
 MATALON--Zack. Performer. Beloved husband of Suzannah, died November 1 after a long valiant struggle with Alzheimer's disease. He leaves also four children, Adam, Sarah, Noah and Vivien and eight wonderful grandchildren.       
 OPERT--Sam J. 96, Palm Beach County, FL; formerly of Bronx, NY, Worcester, MA, and Falmouth, MA; on November 9, 2005. Adored husband of the late Ida (Gerrol), his wife of 69 years; beloved father of Frederic, Lawrence and wife Stephanie Mitchell, Judith and husband James Sandler; revered gr
 READ--Gardner. Died on November 10 at the age of 92 at his home in Manchester-bythe-Sea, MA. Composer of more than 150 orchestral, choral and chamber works and pieces for the piano, organ and solo voice; author of 10 books on musical composition and notation; conductor; international lectur
 RHODES--William D. An investor whose successful career on Wall Street spanned over 60 years died October 31, 2005. Mr. Rhodes headed the Economics, Research and Investment Departments at the firm of Lionel D. Edie & Co. He was born in West Virginia and educated at Indiana University. He ser
 ROSENBERG -- Samuel L. Born on June 21, 1909 in Odessa, Ukraine. Emigrated to the United States in 1911 with his parents and three sisters, Ann Weitzenberg (died 1998), Eva Blackman and Marcia Hoffman. Preceded in death by wife of 67 years, Natalie ''Netty'' Rosenberg (nee Baer). Survived b
 SPEZIALI--John J. Of Cold Spring, NY, died Wednesday evening. A consistently interesting man, his career path took him from printing sales to being a cook on a tuna clipper. He was also a talented and exhibited painter. John was beloved for his originality, quirky humor and generous spirit.
 TETZELI--Frederick Edward, 75. Of Boca Grande, FL, died in peace November 8, 2005 in Charlottesville, VA surrounded by his family. Fred was born September 12, 1930, in Chomutov, Czechoslovakia, the son of Baron Louis Tetzeli von Rosador and Countess Sophinka Deym. Fred lived in Czechoslovak
 TRIPPE--John Terry. Died peacefully on October 29 in Mechanicsville, PA after a long illness. He was 67. Husband of Jane Reis and proud father of Juan T. Trippe II. Beloved son of the late Betty and Juan Trippe. His sister Betsy T. DeVecchi and brothers Charles W. Trippe and Edward S. Tripp
 TUFT--Leonard W., 83, retired Executive Vice President of RCA, died Friday, November 11, of heart failure. Beloved husband of Irene Yuss and father of Sarah and David. At RCA, he negotiated commerical satellite agreements, retiring after 37 years to practice law. Born in Philadelphia, PA, h
 TULIN--Marshall. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our longtime member and two-time past President, Marshall Tulin. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 WARREN--William ''Bill''. November 6. Loving husband of Vivian for over 50 years and devoted father to Robert. Adored and esteemed by Wendy and Gary Seiden, Lora and Irving Shepard. The voice and mind of radio station WMCR, Oneida, NY. Bill will be remembered for his gregarious nature, keen
 WEISBROT--Aaron. Survived by his beloved wife Pauline, devoted children Deborah (Alan Ettinger) and Jeffrey (Andrea); cherished sister Sarah Don (Marvin), adored grandchildren Joshua, Jonathan, Rachel and Marc. He will be remembered for his kind and gentle spirit. Services Monday 12:30 PM, 
 ZIERING--Herman. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Herman Ziering, a longtime ADL activist and supporter. A survivor of the Riga ghetto, Herman's leadership on ADL's Task Force on Nazi War Criminals was invaluable in the effort to bring to justice those responsible for the Hol
 Daniel McNamara Gribbon, former managing partner of the prominent Washington law firm Covington & Burling, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Washington. He was 88. The cause was complications of kidney disease, his daughter Diana said. Mr. Gribbon was born on Jan. 27, 1917, in Y
 Ernest Crichlow, an influential Harlem Renaissance painter whose depictions of African-Americans reflected social injustices and shifting social realities through much of the 20th century, died on Thursday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 91 and lived in Fort Greene, Broo
 Graham Payn, a handsome, debonair actor and singer who for 30 years was the companion of the playwright Nol Coward, died on Nov. 4 at the home the two had shared, Les Avants, in the Swiss Alps above Montreux. He was 87. His death was announced on the Web site of the Nol Coward S
 Michael Mendelson, former president of the investment firm Oppenheimer & Company, died on Nov. 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said. After working for nearly 20 years at E. F. Hutton & Company, which dissolved in the 1980's, Mr
 BUCHIN--John D. Age 50, on November 11, 2005, in Los Angeles, CA, after a long, courageous battle against lymphoma. Beloved son of Jean and the late Irving, dear brother of Peter and brotherin-law of Marilyn, cherished uncle of Benjamin. Graduate of the Horace Mann School; B.A. University o
 HENDLER--Harold. ''King of the Ribbon Trade,'' age 92, past proprietor of Hyman Hendler & Sons, resided in Lawrence, NY, passed away on November 12, 2005. Beloved husband of Betty and the late Janet Hendler, adored father of Gail Hendler and Michael, Maida and Michael Weisman, and step fath
 KAPEL--Joseph G. January 1, 1927-November 11, 2005, in Rancho Mirage, CA. We mourn the loss of an inquisitive, creative, dear and gentle man. With heartfelt sympathy to Jay Koren, his partner of 52 years, from his many friends. Our pal Joe, gone too soon.       
 LEVY--Jay W. 70, died peacefully on November 12, 2005. Husband to Norma, father to Joe and Christine Levy, Jennifer and Ron Fiore, adoring grandfather to Ria and Rachel. His wit, selflessness, generosity and most of all his courage, with which he fought his illness, will always serve as a s
 NUSSBAUM -- Allan Irwin. Passed on November 12, at the age of 72, after a long battle with cancer. He is survived by his wife Vivian, his son David and Steven (Lauren), grandchildren Joshua, Samantha, Alanna and Eli. Funeral services will be held on Monday, November 14, at 12:45 pm, at ''Th
 TRIPPE--John Terry. Died peacefully on October 29 in Mechanicsville, PA after a long illness. He was 67. Husband of Jane Reis and proud father of Juan T. Trippe II. Beloved son of the late Betty and Juan Trippe. His sister Betsy T. DeVecchi and brothers Charles W. Trippe and Edward S. Tripp
 TUFT--Leonard W., 83, retired Executive Vice President of RCA, died Friday, November 11, of heart failure. Beloved husband of Irene Yuss and father of Sarah and David. At RCA, he negotiated commerical satellite agreements, retiring after 37 years to practice law. Born in Philadelphia, PA, h
 TULIN--Marshall. On November 12, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Jean. Loving father of Kathryn and Victor, John and Wendy and James and Meryl. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth, Alex, Victor, Christine, James, Alex and Christopher. Great grandfather of Ruby. Dear brother of Robert and M
 Raymond Hains, one of the last surviving members of the influential French Nouveaux Ralistes group of artists, died on Oct. 28 at his home in Paris. He was 78. His death was confirmed by the French Ministry of Culture. Mr. Hains was best known for the layered, torn and wea
 Theodore T. Puck, a geneticist who devised an efficient method for growing colonies of human cells that he used in developing early and important tests for cell damage from radiation, and later for studying the genetic causes of cancers, died Nov. 6 at a hospital in Denver. He was 89.      
 James J. Fyfe, an author and nationally recognized expert on the use of force by the police, and the top training official in the New York Police Department since 2002, died on Saturday in Princeton, N.J. He was 63. He died at University Medical Center in Princeton after being treat
 DEMING--MacDonald, Esq., 90, of Tampa passed away on November 13, 2005. He is preceded in death by his wife of 53 years, Judith and his sister, Barbara. He is survived by his two daughters, A. Meredith and Laura; a son, Michael and his wife Pamela; two grandchildren Jeneva and Madison; and 
 GIBSON--Edward L. On November 11, 2005, in Osterville, MA, at age 81. Beloved husband of Rita Partridge Gibson and loving father of Edward and Jennifer Gibson. Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Edward leaves a legacy of love that will always be cherished by his children and six grandchildren
 MURPHY--Michael J., 65. Of Vero Beach, died November 13, 2005 at VNA Hospice House after a long and valiant battle with cancer. He was born April 4, 1940 in New York City to James and Mary Murphy, both of whom were born in Co. Roscommon, Ireland. He has been a resident of Vero Beach, FL. fo
 NONAS--Elliott. January 21, 1915-November 10, 2005. His words: ''Noting paradises lost, One thing stands out, sharp and bold: I may get older but I'll not get old! It may be brash and unredeeming, But when I go, I'll go out screaming.'' We miss you. Your loving family $(6$)NONAS--El
 SCHULTE--David A. Jr. On Sunday, November 13th, 2005, at age 88. Beloved husband of Sandra Schulte, loving father of Holly Schulte Ellison, Christina Fleur and William Thatcher Dowell, and adored grandfather. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday, November
 TULIN--Marshall. On November 12, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Jean. Loving father of Kathryn and Victor, John and Wendy and James and Meryl. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth, Alex, Victor, Christine, James, Alex and Christopher. Great grandfather of Ruby. Dear brother of Robert and M
 MACKINLAY--John Douglas. (Glasgowlie)/d. A proud and loving father, died peacefully at his home in Elie, Scotland on Friday 11th November 2005 with his six children at his side, Scott, Nicole, Philippa, Douglas, Gabrielle and Natalie. Funeral service in Elie Parish Church on Thursday 17th N
 Vine Deloria Jr., a Standing Rock Sioux who burst into the American consciousness in 1969 with his book ''Custer Died for Your Sins'' and later amplified his message through 20 more books about the Native American experience, died on Sunday, a family friend said. He was 72 and lived
 The Rev. Adrian P. Rogers, the three-time president of the Southern Baptist Convention who led a conservative takeover of the powerful denomination that helped usher in a resurgence of conservative Christians on pulpits and in politics, died on Tuesday in Memphis. He was 74. His dea
 AMOS -- Rev. James G. passed away on Saturday, November 12, 2005 at The Aultman Woodlawn Nursing Home in Canton, OH. He was 82. He was the beloved Pastor of The Gustavus Adolphus Lutheran Church for the last 421/2 years in Gramercy Park, in New York City. He also served as Pastor for The Ou
 BEHRENS--Dr. Alfred F. Of Madison, on November 12, 2005. Beloved husband of Valerie Behrens. Loving father of Thomas F. of Los Angeles, CA; Mark H. of Los Angeles, CA and Erik B. of San Diego, CA. Also survived by his mother, Lydia Behrens, and sister, Sylvia Bieri, both of Switzerland. A M
 BRUNSWICK--John. Round Dune mourns the passing of longtime resident John Brunswick. Deepest sympathy goes out to his wife Hilda and family.       
 ENGELSTEIN--Harold. Age 95, on November 15, 2005 of Surfside, FL., formerly of Far Rockaway, N.Y. Devoted husband of the late Dora Seidman, loving father of Miriam (Rabbi Jeremiah) Wohlberg of Merrick, N.Y., Sandra (Reuben) Maron of Woodmere, N.Y., Marcy (Martin) Hoffman of Hollywood, FL.; 
 FUCHSMAN--Eric, 51. Of Barrington, IL., formerly of New York City, died on November 13, 2005 after a valiant battle against brain cancer. He was a creative force in the world of music, promoting concerts and encouraging performers. He is survived by his wife Laura of Barrington, his mother 
 PARISI--Mayor Joseph C., Sr. (age 79), of Englewood Cliffs, formerly of Guttenberg, died on November 15, 2005. Beloved wife of Lucille (nee Ahrens) and children, Joseph Jr. and his wife Gina, Deborah Ryan and husband Terry, and Laura Bigica and husband Joseph. Beloved grandfather of Carrie 
 QUIGLEY--Leonard V., 72. Died peacefully at home in Forest Hills Gardens on November 15, surrounded by his family. Born in Kansas City, Missouri, Len graduated from Holy Cross and Harvard Law School, and served in the Navy in the Korean War. A partner for over 35 years at the law firm of Pa
 SALMON--Tom W. Of Fort Lee, NJ and Palm Beach, FL. on November 14, 2005 at age 85. Born Kassel, Germany. Beloved husband of Faye for 59 yrs. Cherished father of Jane and husband Jerry Gliklich and Debra and husband Barry Seidel. Adored grandfather of David and Benjamin Gliklich and Erica an
 SARACHEK--Bernard. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of Bernard ''Red'' Sarachek, a legendary coach and proud Jew. He led and inspired generations of YU athletes as head basketball coach and athletic director from 1940 to 1969. A revered basketball strategist, he willingly le
 SHAWN--Gilbert S. On November 12, 2005 at the age of 84. Beloved husband of the late Melba Rae, loving father to Eric and Lisa, adoring grandfather to Oliver. A man of courage, valor and deep family commitment, he will be sorely missed. Services to be announced.       
 WERNER--Frederic P., 73. Of Washington, DC; Palm Beach, FL; and West Stockbridge, MA, died November 1. Born in Brooklyn, NY April 17, 1932, son of Eleanor Blatteis Werner and Edward A. Werner. Raised in Great Neck, NY, graduated The Hotchkiss School, Amherst College and Columbia University 
 Preston Robert Tisch, who with his older brother built a multibillion-dollar business empire and who himself was postmaster general, half-owner of the New York Giants football team and leader of many of the city's top business groups, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 and a
 AMOS -- Rev. James G. passed away on Saturday, November 12, 2005 at The Aultman Woodlawn Nursing Home in Canton, OH. He was 82. He was the beloved Pastor of The Gustavus Adolphus Lutheran Church for the last 421/2 years in Gramercy Park, in New York City. He also served as Pastor for The Ou
 FRIEDMAN--Steven M. on November 15, 2005. Survived by his loving wife Jennifer Simpson, his mother Edith Friedman, sisters Janice and Laura, niece Shana and a nephew Matthew, mother-inlaw Arlene, sister-in-law Jill and brother-in-law Michael. Grew up in Scarsdale, NY, attended Edgemont High
 GARATE--Jorge. On November 15, after a long illness. Beloved brother of Silvia, and cherished life partner of Paul Stumpf. An exceptional man who will be missed by all who knew him. Also survived by mother, Gregoria of Peru; brother Oscar and sister Lucia of Peru; sisters Marta and Betty of
 GIBSON--Joshua, M.D. Members of the Division of Infectious Diseases and the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine at The Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the sudden death of their beloved colleague and friend, Joshua Gibson. He was also a son, a brother, a husband and a member of the M
 GOSSARD -- Sander ''Sam''. The Jazz at Lincoln Center family mourns the loss of Sander ''Sam'' Gossard, project director from 2000-2004 for the creation of Frederick P. Rose Hall. At a crucial time in the facilities development, Sam dedicated his extraordinary energy and talent to building 
 GREENBERG--Harold Jay. Beloved husband of the late Jeannette. Devoted father of Arlene and Andrew Linder, Joel and Leslie Greenberg, and Phyllis Greenberg. Loving grandfather of Jonathan, David, Dana, and Adam. Dear brother of Florence and Leon Tempkin. Adored patriarch; respected industria
 PERLMAN--Irving B., 87. Passed away November 16, 2005 at his home in Floral Park, N.Y. Beloved husband of Ruth, father and father-inlaw of Marjorie and Stephen Shoenholz, grandfather of Jeffrey and Ellyn Guttman and Amy Guttman. Former owner of M. Perlman, Inc. Office Supplies of New York C
 QUIGLEY--Leonard V., 72. Died peacefully at home in Forest Hills Gardens on November 15, surrounded by his family. Born in Kansas City, Missouri, Len graduated from Holy Cross and Harvard Law School, and served in the Navy in the Korean War. A partner for over 35 years at the law firm of Pa
 RITZ--Norton, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center was saddened to learn of the death of Dr. Norton Ritz in early November. Dr. Ritz was a physician in the Division of Hematology in the Department of Medicine for over 40 years. He was involved with the Hematology Residency Pr
 ROBERTS--Alfred B., 83. Of Livingston passed away suddenly Sunday, November 13. A resident of Livingston for over 50 years he was instrumental in the creation of The Living Sections for The New York Times where he retired in 1991 after thirty-one years as an assistant editor. Al was a World
 ROBINSON--Barclay, Jr. of Stonington, CT and Castine, ME, on November 14, 2005. Survived by wife Katharine, sister Betsy Taylor, son Timothy and daughter-in-law Merritt, daughters Elizabeth and Anne, son-in-law Michael, grandchildren Harrison, Maxwell, Luke, and numerous nieces and nephews.
 SHAPIRO--Murray, 80. Died November 14 in New York. Structural engineer, designer of over 150 major high rise office buildings in NY. Beloved husband of Florence Morrison Shapiro. Father of Alan and Fred. Grandfather of Andy and Jamie. Services 11:30 Friday, Riverside Memorial, Amsterdam & 7
 SOLOMON--Horace H. On November 16, 2005, after a long struggle with cancer. Thank you L.S./M.F.T. Born on February 11, 1929 in New York, he was the son of Lillian (Rubin) and Nat L. Solomon of New York, Englewood, NJ and Palm Beach, FL. Loving husband of Anita Grossman Solomon, author and q
 TISCH--Preston Robert. 79. Died peacefully at his home in NYC on November 15th. Survived by Joan Tisch, wife of 57 years, son Steven and his wife Jamie, daughter Laurie, and son Jonathan; grandchildren, Emily, Hilary, Carolyn, William, Charles, Henry, Elizabeth, Holden, and Zachary. Brother
 VELISKAKIS--Konstantin P. (aka Kostas P. Velis, M.D.) left us on November 14, 2005 at his home in New York City, of Hellenic ethnic descent, father Dr. Protesilaos Veliskakis, mother Athina of Athens, Greece. He graduated from the American University of Beirut Medical School in 1948, comple
 Ralph Edwards, the broadcast pioneer who was the creator and M.C. of two of the most popular shows in entertainment history, ''Truth or Consequences'' and ''This Is Your Life,'' died yesterday at his home in West Hollywood, Calif. He was 92. His death was announced by his publicity 
 Henry Taube, who won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for describing how electrons hop between molecules during chemical reactions, died on Wednesday at his home on the campus of Stanford University, where he had taught for two decades. He was 89. Stanford announced his death yesterday.  
 DAMASHEK--George. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Assoc. Rabbi Angela W. Buchdahl, Assoc. Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor
 GEHLMEYER--Robert Val. Of Roslyn Harbor, NY and Groton Long Point, CT. He is survived by his wife Beverly, children Robert V., Jr., Douglas E. & Marguerite Tierney, and 5 grandchildren. Visiting Saturday 2-4 and 7-9 PM and Sunday 2-4 PM, Whitting Funeral Home, 300 Glen Cove Ave., Glen Head,
 GOLDEN--Balfour Henry. Acclaimed New York City restaurateur and amateur violinist, died suddenly on November 11 at the age of 83. Son of Samuel and Helen, he was born in Bangor, ME. and was graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Bowdoin College in 1944. After a stint in the army and post graduate wo
 McNULTY--John P. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of John P. McNulty, a Member of the Association since 2003 and Advisory Director since 2005. John performed an important service to The Met as a member of our Investment Committee. He was always an enthusiastic, generous friend to The
 PFAFF--Henry C., Jr. Age 91 on November 17, 2005 of Waverly Heights, Gladwyne, PA. Formerly of Summit, NJ and Nantucket, MA. Predeceased by his wife Martha M. Pfaff survived by his daughter Gretchen P. Riley. For more information please call Stuard Funeral Home, Ardmore, PA., 610-649-0243. 
 QUIGLEY--Leonard V. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, LLP greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Leonard V. Quigley. Len was a partner and of counsel in the Corporate Department, the founder of the firm's Canadian Practice 
 RICH--Daniel E., 31. Of New York, NY on November 16, 2005 after a long and courageous fight against all odds. Beloved son of Bruce and Judy Rich. Adored brother of Stacey, loving nephew and cousin, and devoted friend. Honors graduate of Cornell University and graduate of Emory University Sc
 TISCH--Preston Robert. 79. Died peacefully at his home in NYC on November 15th. Survived by Joan Tisch, wife of 57 years, son Steven and his wife Jamie, daughter Laurie, and son Jonathan; grandchildren, Emily, Hilary, Carolyn, William, Charles, Henry, Elizabeth, Holden, and Zachary. Brother
 VELISKAKIS--Konstantin P. (aka Kostas P. Velis, M.D.) left us on November 14, 2005 at his home in New York City, of Hellenic ethnic descent, father Dr. Protesilaos Veliskakis, mother Athina of Athens, Greece. He graduated from the American University of Beirut Medical School in 1948, comple
 Paul Langdon Ward, a historian and former head of the American Historical Association who was president of Sarah Lawrence College in the 1960's, died last Sunday at his retirement home in Gwynedd, Pa. He was 94. The death was announced by his family and on the association's Web site
 Dutch Hiller, one of the three surviving players from the Rangers' 1940 Stanley Cup hockey champions, died Saturday at a hospital in Glendale, Calif. He was 90 and lived in Montrose, Calif. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter Patricia Ornelas said. Hiller's 
 Joseph Monserrat, a leader among Puerto Ricans in New York and the continental United States beginning in the days of their mass migration in the 1950's, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Greenwich Village. He was 84 and lived in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. His family
 Julius C. C. Edelstein, a primary architect of open admissions at the City University of New York in the late 1960's, died on Friday morning at New York Hospital. He was 93. His daughter, Suzy E. E. Edelstein, said the cause was complications of pneumonia. Although he never 
 DAMASHEK - George. A rare, principled man and compassionate attorney, he was loved and respected by all who knew him. Tirelessly devoted to his family, his friends and his work, he extended himself on behalf of those whose lives he touched. He will forever be remembered by his wife Zelda, h
 EDELSTEIN--Julius C.C. Educator and public servant, died peacefully in his sleep on November 18, 2005. He will be remembered with much love, awe and pride. Contributions may be made to the Julius C.C. Edelstein Scholarship Fund at Hunter College. A memorial service will be held at a date to
 KOLKER--Leon (Lee), 95. Survived by loving wife of 37 years, Betty Lee March Kolker; previously married to the late Myrtle Picker Kolker. Father of Anne and Thomas, grandfather of Joanne and Amy, stepfather to Ward, Tom and Bill Blum, and children. 1931 graduate of MIT. Owner of Kolker Chem
 McNULTY--John P., 52. Of Short Hills, N.J., Naples, FL, and Aspen, CO, a senior director at Goldman Sachs, passed away suddenly on Wednesday, November 16 in Naples. The son of Nora Sweeney McNulty and Charles McNulty, John was born on October 31, 1952, in Philadelphia, PA. After earning his
 RICH--Daniel E., 31. Of New York, NY on November 16, 2005 after a long and courageous fight against all odds. Beloved son of Bruce and Judy Rich. Adored brother of Stacey, loving nephew and cousin, and devoted friend. Honors graduate of Cornell University and graduate of Emory University Sc
 ROTHMAN--Jerry, 91. Died November 8. Former President of Young Israel of the Grand Concourse; Administrator Charity Fund, Fifth Avenue Synagogue, President Dylan Carpet, begun as United Carpet. Remembered for his infectious smile, dapper attire, and magnetic personality. Survived by sons, D
 TISCH--Preston Robert. 79. Died peacefully at his home in NYC on November 15th. Survived by Joan Tisch, wife of 57 years, son Steven and his wife Jamie, daughter Laurie, and son Jonathan; grandchildren, Emily, Hilary, Carolyn, William, Charles, Henry, Elizabeth, Holden, and Zachary. Brother
 Red Sarachek, the Yeshiva University basketball coach for a quarter-century who was known for his innovative tactics in a program far from the sport's limelight, died Monday at his home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He was 93. His death was announced by Yeshiva. Sarachek coached 
 BROOKER--Bruce, 78. Of Pelham Manor, died November 15. Survived by his loving wife Catherine and son Roger.       
 DUBERSTEIN -- Conrad B. Died peacefully at his home on November 18, 2005 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Saggio), loving father of Elysa Belessakos and father-in-law of Elias; devoted grandfather of Nicole Chemtob (Mark), Josephine and Dimitri Belessakos and Angie Allison; ad
 EDELSTEIN--Julius C.C. Educator and public servant, died peacefully in his sleep on November 18, 2005. He will be remembered with much love, awe and pride. Contributions may be made to the Julius C.C. Edelstein Scholarship Fund at Hunter College. A memorial service will be held at a date to
 FOREMAN -- Winfield A., ''Bill''. Age 90, November 3, 2005, in Seattle, WA. Loving husband of Alice (Gautsch) Seattle. Loving father of Winfield A. Foreman III and Nell Kleinschmidt (Robert) and grandfather of Lucy Kleinschmidt, all of New York City. The service is November 20, 2005. Memori
 HIGGINS--Gerry. The President, faculty, staff and students of Borough of Manhattan Community College, and the Board of Directors and staff of the BMCC Foundation, mourn with heavy hearts the death of our colleague and friend, Gerry Higgins. Gerry was a member of the Board of the BMCC Founda
 KESTEN--Seymour R. A professor and author noted for his studies of utopian colonies, died last November in Palo Alto, California. He was 78. His death was announced by his sons, Philip and Randy. Mr. Kesten was born in Brooklyn and attended Richmond Hills High School. Upon returning from se
 KOLKER--Leon (Lee), 95. Survived by loving wife of 37 years, Betty Lee March Kolker; previously married to the late Myrtle Picker Kolker. Father of Anne and Thomas, grandfather of Joanne and Amy, stepfather to Ward, Tom and Bill Blum, and children. 1931 graduate of MIT. Owner of Kolker Chem
 LeROY--Maximilian Warner. During his all too short life Maximilian (universally known as Max) Warner LeRoy--beloved son of Kay LeRoy and precious brother to Bridget Warner LeRoy, Carolyn Plum LeRoy and Jennifer Oz LeRoy--embraced an extraordinary number of people with a singular charisma du
 MCKHANN -- Charles F., Professor Emeritus of the Yale School of Medicine, died of prostate cancer on November 14, 2005, at the age of 75. He leaves his wife Rhona, sons Chas and Peter, daughter Lisa, grandchildren Emma and Alice, and brother Guy. A graduate of Harvard College and the Univer
 McNULTY--John P., 52. Of Short Hills, N.J., Naples, FL, and Aspen, CO, a senior director at Goldman Sachs, passed away suddenly on Wednesday, November 16 in Naples. The son of Nora Sweeney McNulty and Charles McNulty, John was born on October 31, 1952, in Philadelphia, PA. After earning his
 PORTER--David. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers note with sadness the death of David Porter, founding member of Hospice Board of Directors, artist, patron and loyal friend. David was devoted to helping others and we are truly grateful to have had the benefit of 
 PORTNOY--William. On November 17, 2005, of Morgan Island, New York. Mourned by his loving wife Ginger, children Mickey, Jyll Portnoy-Dickstein (Richard), and Dennis, stepchildren Shelli Katz (Alan), Laura Weisinger, Ellen Resnick (Neil), brothers Herbert and Milton, and grandchildren Rebecc
 QUINN--John D. Former New York State Lottery Director, John D. Quinn of Saratoga Springs, NY, died November 16, 2005 at the age of 77. Born in New York City to Irish immigrants, Mr. Quinn was a career Army officer who retired as a Colonel in 1970 with the Bronze Star and Legion of Merit awa
 RICH--Daniel E., 31. Of New York, NY on November 16, 2005 after a long and courageous fight against all odds. Beloved son of Bruce and Judy Rich. Adored brother of Stacey, loving nephew and cousin, and devoted friend. Honors graduate of Cornell University and graduate of Emory University Sc
 ROBINSON--Barclay Jr. A loyal and dedicated member of the Board of Trustees of The Ethel Walker School. His commitment, ethusiasm and deep caring for the School will be greatly missed by all who knew and worked with him. Our deepest sympathies go to his wife Katharine, and their entire fami
 TISCH--Preston Robert. 79. Died peacefully at his home in NYC on November 15th. Survived by Joan Tisch, wife of 57 years, son Steven and his wife Jamie, daughter Laurie, and son Jonathan; grandchildren, Emily, Hilary, Carolyn, William, Charles, Henry, Elizabeth, Holden, and Zachary. Brother
 WARD--Paul L. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the death of its fifth president Paul Langdon Ward, who led the liberal arts college from 1960-1965 during a period of growth, while strengthening and preserving the College's commitment to rigorous, individualized education. We extend our sympath
 WEISSMAN - Morris. With deep sadness our family announces the passing of this wise and gentle man. He is survived by his beloved wife of 71 years, Gertrude, and children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, and others too numerous to name.       
 ROEBLING--Ferdinand W. III died November 15 at his home in Mantoloking, New Jersey at the age of 95. He was born in Trenton, New Jersey and resided there until moving to Lambertville, New Jersey in 1946. He was a graduate of the Pomfret School in Pomfret, Connecticut. He graduated in 1933 f
 TRACT--Harold M. Of blessed memory. Passed away November 18, 1991. He was a truly noble man and we loved him. The Tract Family       
 Rutherford Aris, a distinguished chemical engineer who, as the result of a mix-up three decades ago, had a short-lived but supremely accomplished alter ego -- Aris Rutherford -- with an official entry in Who's Who and one of the most enviable jobs in the world, died on Nov. 2 in Edina, Minn
 Hal O. Anger, an electrical engineer in the field of nuclear medicine who invented diagnostic cameras allowing doctors to view metabolic processes occurring inside the human body, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 85. The cause was heart failure, said his brothe
 Lou Myers, a satiric artist and graphic essayist whose expressive style helped modernize cartoons in advertisements and major American magazines, died yesterday at his home in Cortlandt Manor, N.Y. He was 90. The cause of death was spindle cell carcinoma, said his daughter-in-law Al
 Mike Mikell, whose Upper West Side club, Mikell's, was a vital part of New York City rhythm-and-blues and jazz scenes for two decades, died on Friday in Kingston, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y. The cause was cancer and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known and Lou Gehrig
 DUBERSTEIN -- Conrad B. Died peacefully at his home on November 18, 2005 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Saggio), loving father of Elysa Belessakos and father-in-law of Elias; devoted grandfather of Nicole Chemtob (Mark), Josephine and Dimitri Belessakos and Angie Allison; ad
 GREENBERG--Harold Jay. The United Cerebral Palsy Association of Nassau County, Inc. deeply regrets the loss of a devoted Board member and tireless supporter of our agency, Harold Jay Greenberg. Harold's affiliation with ucpn began over 40 years ago. He served as ucpn Board President from 19
 LeROY--Maximilian Warner. During his all too short life Maximilian (universally known as Max) Warner LeRoy--beloved son of Kay LeRoy and precious brother to Bridget Warner LeRoy, Carolyn Plum LeRoy and Jennifer Oz LeRoy--embraced an extraordinary number of people with a singular charisma du
 LISS--Stanley. Of Delray Beach and formerly of New York died November 18, 2005. He is survived by his loving wife Shirley; devoted children Ellen Siegel and Robert (Barbara) Liss. Dear sister Barbara (Dr. Irving) Breiter; adoring grandchildren Allyson (Adam) Sklar, David & Adam Liss. Cheris
 PFAFF--Henry C., Jr. Age 91 on November 17, 2005 of Waverly Heights, Gladwyne, PA. Formerly of Summit, NJ and Nantucket, MA. Predeceased by his wife Martha M. Pfaff survived by his daughter Gretchen P. Riley. For more information please call Stuard Funeral Home, Ardmore, PA., 610-649-0243. 
 PORTNOY - William. The Board and staff of Maimonides Medical Center mourn the passing of our longtime friend, Bill Portnoy. Bill was the husband of Ginger Portnoy, our beloved and recently retired Vice President of Development. He will be missed. Martin Payson, Chair Pamela Brier, President
 SMOLER--Irwin Charles, 82, President of the 106th Infantry Division Association and former President of Wicker Park LP and Smoler Bros. of New York and Chicago, died on November 18th, 2005, in New York-Presbyterian Hospital. Beloved husband of Elsie R. Smoler and loving father of Fredric, M
 Steve Belichick, a college football coach and celebrated scout for 43 years and the father of New England Patriots Coach Bill Belichick, died of heart failure Saturday night at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 86. ''I found out about it the middle of last night,'' Bill Belichick to
 Ben A. Franklin, a former national correspondent for The New York Times, died on Saturday at his home in Garrett Park, Md. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. At his death, Mr. Franklin was the editor of The Washington Spectator, a twice-monthly political 
 Conrad B. Duberstein, the chief judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court in Brooklyn since 1984, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 90. His death was announced by the court, on which he had continued to serve as chief judge on a year-to-year basis since nominally reti
 Derek Lamb, an Academy Award-winning writer, director and producer of animated films, died on Nov. 5 in Poulsbo, Wash., where he was visiting a friend. He was 69 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was cancer, said Janet Perlman, Mr. Lamb's former wife and a longtime collaborato
 John Campo, a New York-based trainer for three decades who saddled Pleasant Colony, the winner of the 1981 Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes, died on Nov. 13 at his home in Hewlett, N.Y. He was 67. His death was announced by his son Paul, who said he had been treated for diabetes 
 Link Wray, a rockabilly guitarist whose raw sound and inventive techniques influenced musicians from the early days of rock 'n' roll into the punk era, died on Nov. 5 at his home in Copenhagen. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Olive. With a guitar sound
 CREEDON--Jeremiah (Jerry), 72. Died peacefully at his home on November 20, 2005 after struggling with pulmonary fibrosis that robbed him of breath and sapped his considerable strength. A proud graduate of Fordham ('53) and Columbia (MBA, '58). Jerry served as an officer in the U.S. Army ('5
 FRANKEL--Justin. The faculty, students, trustees and administration of the New York College of Podiatric Medicine express their profound sorrow at the sudden and untimely passing of the son of our longtime Dean, Bruce J. Frankel, D.P.M., and his wife, Bobbi. We send our heartfelt condolence
 HECTOR -- Louis J. Died peacefully on November 19th, one month before his 90th birthday. Predeceased by his first wife, Dorothy Anne Dooley, in 1973, he is survived by his wife, Nancy Bean Hector, his sons, Denis H. Hector (Joanna), William F. Hector, Louis J. Hector, Jr. (Hilde), and his d
 KUPERBERG--David S. 85, of Freehold, NJ (formerly of Brooklyn, NY) on November 20, 2005. He was predeceased by his wife of 61 years Etta Kuperberg. Surviving are two sons, Mitchell Kuperberg and Nelson Kuperberg; a daughter, Roberta Rosenfeld; two sisters, Florence Friedman and Beatrice Mon
 LEE--Kelvin Clyde, Dr. on November 20, 2005, age 47. Chief of the Division of General Otolaryngology and Sleep Surgery at NYU Medical Center. Survived by his wife Johanna (Benton) Lee. Also survived by his children Samantha Lee and Benjamin Lee, parents Dr. Winston and Margaret Lee, sibling
 LERNER--Harry. Born December 29, 1911, died November 19, 2005. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, and friend. He was a man of substance and quiet strength. We will miss him.       
 LEWIS--Myrna. Our deepest sympathy to Dr. Robert Butler and his daughter Alexandra on the passing of Myrna Lewis, truly a great, great lady. Walter Kaye Kathy Zappulla       
 PFAFF--Henry C., Jr. Age 91 on November 17, 2005 of Waverly Heights, Gladwyne, PA. Formerly of Summit, NJ and Nantucket, MA. Predeceased by his wife Martha M. Pfaff survived by his daughter Gretchen P. Riley. For more information please call Stuard Funeral Home, Ardmore, PA., 610-649-0243. 
 SHARPE--Timothy, 72, on November 9, 2005. Survived by his sisters Tippy, Sidney, Carla, and Hilary; sons Jason and Amory; daughters-in-law Liz and Marybeth; and grandchildren Emily and James. He was a graduate of Stanford University and served with distinction in Korea with the U.S. Army. H
 SMOLER--Irwin Charles, 82, President of the 106th Infantry Division Association and former President of Wicker Park LP and Smoler Bros. of New York and Chicago, died on November 18th, 2005, in New York-Presbyterian Hospital. Beloved husband of Elsie R. Smoler and loving father of Fredric, M
 TISCH--Robert. WOW what a great guy. Our deepest sympathy to his wife and family. Walter Kaye Kathy Zappulla       
 DUBERSTEIN--Judge Conrad B., St. John's University notes with sorrow the passing of a most distinguished alum, supporter, and special friend Judge Conrad B. Duberstein, United States Bankruptcy Judge for the Eastern District of New York. As a distinguished graduate of St. John's, Judge Dube
 Hugh Sidey, who became intoxicated with journalism at his family's tiny Iowa newspaper and went on to carve out a career as Time magazine's chronicler of the American presidency, died in Paris on Monday. He was 78. Mr. Sidey died, apparently of a heart attack, at a restaurant during
 BALDWIN--Blair Fahnestock. 58, of 236 Coggeshall Avenue, Newport, RI, formerly of New York City, NY, died Monday, November 21, 2005 at Newport Hospital. Born in New York City, New York, on April 27, 1947, he was the son of Helen (Michalis) Winslow and the late W.Barton Baldwin and a step-so
 FRIEDMAN--Samuel (Sid) E. A well known resident of Great Neck, New York (formerly of Seagate) at age 94. Loving husband of Reva. Devoted father of Mitchell (Jill), Justin (Linda), and Bruce (Paula). Adored grandfather of Pamela (Scott), Jocelyn (Elliot), Jeffrey, Julian, Allison, Jordan and
 KAVALER--Dr. Max. On November 22, 2005. Beloved husband of Gloria, cherished father of Drs.' Jill and Leon Kavaler of Demarest, NJ and Dr. and Mrs. Jill and Robert Kavaler of Upper Saddle River, NJ. He is survived by four adoring grandchildren, Melanie, Jacob, Michael and Rebecca Kavaler. H
 KING--James. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of the distinguished dramatic tenor, James King, a beloved artist and friend. He made his Met debut in 1966 as a noble Florestan in ''Fidelio'' and holds the record for most Met performances of two of the most challenging roles in the ten
 LEE--Kelvin, M.D. The faculty, residents and staff of the Department of Otolaryngology mourn the passing of colleague and friend Kelvin C. Lee, M.D. A graduate of Yale University and University of California, San Francisco, Dr. Lee was recruited to NYU School of Medicine as Associate Profes
 MENKES--William B., 90. On November 21 in North Miami Beach, Fla. Survived by his beloved wife Olga; devoted children Dr. Alan Menkes, Marjorie (Michael) Rockman, Michael Menkes, Andrew (Cynthia) Menkes and the late Rachel Menkes. Adored grandfather and great-grandfather; loving eldest brot
 MIKELL--Mike. All our love, prayers and condolences go to Pat and Monique Mikell. Mike will be missed by all of us who had the good fortune to have known him at Mikell's. Christopher & Gingy Parker       
 TENENBAUM--Mircea. On November 22, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Susan. Devoted father of Radu and Rodica and father-in-law of Kathryn Hammer and Steven Dreisin. Cherished grandfather of Alexandra, Rafaela and Philip. Memorial service Wednesday 1 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and
 Paul Roazen, a political scientist and chronicler of the development of psychoanalysis who explored Sigmund Freud's complex relationships with his family, students and adherents, died Nov. 3 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 69. The cause was complications of Crohn's disease, h
 Chris Whitley, an innovative songwriter and guitarist who played traditional blues as well as hybrids made with the sounds of electronic dance music, died on Sunday at a friend's home near Houston. He was 45 and lived in New York. The cause was lung cancer, said his brother, Daniel.
 James King, an American heldentenor whose bright, ringing voice and fluent high notes captivated critics and audiences in leading European opera houses in the 1960's, died on Sunday in Naples, Fla., where he had retired. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, according to Indiana 
 Joseph J. Thorndike, a former managing editor of Life magazine who in 1954 helped found American Heritage magazine, died Tuesday at his home in Harwich, Mass. He was 92. The cause was congestive heart failure and complications of Alzheimer's disease, his son John said. Mr. T
 BLOCH--Charles B. The Cantors Assembly mourns the loss of one of its earliest members. Fondly remembered for his glorious voice and friendship to colleagues, Hazzan Bloch served four leading American congregations including Temple Ansche Chesed in Manhattan. His first cantorial experience w
 CRONIN--Michael Thomas Ignatius, M.D. Died on November 23, 2005 in Branford, CT after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. Born on February 1, 1924, he came to the United States in 1952, becoming a citizen in 1958. He received a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree from University Colleg
 HECTOR--Louis J. The Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University deeply mourn the loss of our beloved friend, Louis J. Hector, Esq., an esteemed member of the Board of Trustees for twenty-five years. Louis Hector joined The Rockefeller University Council in 1977 and was elect
 LEVINE--Harry, 89. Of Lauderhill, FL, passed away on November 23, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. He is survived by devoted sister, Nettie, loving son, Arthur (Barbara), daughter Mindy (Andre), and by adored and adoring granddaughters, Lauren, and Alyson. Funeral services on Frida
 RUTHERFORD--William A., Sr. The Trustees and staff of the Storm King Art Center express profound sorrow at the loss of their dear friend and landscape architect since the Art Center's inception in 1960. Over the years his vision and creativity guided the shaping of our landscape and its int
 Kingsbury Browne, a prominent Boston tax lawyer and outdoorsman whose initiative and knowledge of land trusts spared large and small swaths of the American landscape from headlong development, died on Nov. 11 in Kennebunk, Me. He was 82 and lived in Kennebunkport. The cause was pneu
 DE WILDE--Edy. We note with sorrow the passing of Edy de Wilde, extraordinary long-term director of the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam; friend of many contemporary artists; and a founding member of our board of directors. He was a man of unusual intelligence and courtesy. We offer our sympathy
 GELLMAN--Charles. Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourns the passing of Charles Gellman, former GNYHA Chairman and a true legend in the annals of New York health care management. From a champion boxer in his youth to a champion of Jewish Memorial Hospital to, in his retirement
 GOLDFARB--Seymour. ''What a guy.'' Seymour passed away on Tuesday, November 22, 2005 at the age of 87. He was the oldest of five brothers, all previously deceased, and one surviving sister. Seymour served in the US Army from 1943 through 1946 as an X-ray technician. After leaving the Army h
 MOORE--Dr. David B. Age 86 in Bryn Mawr, PA. Survived by his beloved wife, Barbara; loving children Eric, Melissa, and Amanda; and his six grandchildren. He was a WW II veteran of the Navy. He enjoyed a long career as a practicing obstetrician and gynecologist at Presbyterian Hospital and o
 RUTHERFORD--William A., Sr. The Trustees and staff of the Storm King Art Center express profound sorrow at the loss of their dear friend and landscape architect since the Art Center's inception in 1960. Over the years his vision and creativity guided the shaping of our landscape and its int
 Ronald S. Rivlin, an applied mathematician who conducted pioneering studies of the elastic properties of rubber and other materials and developed formulas to explain their behavior, died on Oct. 4 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 90. His death was confirmed by his family. Dr.
 Frank Gatski, the Hall of Fame center on the Cleveland Browns teams that played in 10 consecutive professional football championship games in the decade after World War II, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Morgantown, W.Va. He was 84. His death was announced by his daughter Anne Ha
 George Best, an Irish soccer star who captivated the public with his flamboyant skill on the field and his playboy exploits off it, died yesterday in London after a long struggle with alcohol abuse. He was 59. Best was hospitalized in 2000 for a liver condition and had a liver trans
 COHEN--Michael M. November 23, 2005. Born 1912 in Brooklyn. Former General Counsel NYC Housing Authority. Wonderful husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle. Lover of libraries, museums, movies and martinis. Mike's intelligence, humor and spirit inspired everyone he met. Services Sun
 DE WILDE--Edy. We note with sorrow the passing of Edy de Wilde, extraordinary long-term director of the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam; friend of many contemporary artists; and a founding member of our board of directors. He was a man of unusual intelligence and courtesy. We offer our sympathy
 HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Aged 70, November 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Jo Ann Malkin Horowitz, loving father of Jay (Suzanne) and Stephen (Dorsey), dear stepfather of Harold Malkin (Jennifer) and Jill Addeo (Geoffrey) and adored grandfather Max, Ben, Leo, Ryan and Olivia. Born February 13, 1935,
 INDURSKY--David. On November 24, 2005. Beloved husband of Anne of 65 years. Dear father of Arthur and Deanne Indursky. Father of the late Howard Indursky. Father-in-law of Ellen Indursky. Cherished grandfather of Blake, Amy and Michael. We will miss his wonderful sense of humor, his warm sm
 JONES--Roy H. Jr., MD, was born December 4, 1930 in Washington DC. He was the only child born to Edna and Roy Jones. Roy attended high school at Boys High School in Brooklyn, NY and went to College at the City College of New York in New York City. He then pursued his Doctor of Dental Surger
 TREANOR--Robert V. Suddenly on November 23, 2005 of Rockville Centre, LI. Executive Vice President of HSBC, NY, NY. Beloved father of Robert V. Treanor, Jr. and James D. Treanor. Dear son of Catherine and the late Vincent. Fond brother of Kathleen Cappelluti, Virginia Treanor Rubin, Theresa
 RUTHERFORD--William A., Sr. The Trustees and staff of the Storm King Art Center express profound sorrow at the loss of their dear friend and landscape architect since the Art Center's inception in 1960. Over the years his vision and creativity guided the shaping of our landscape and its int
 WALDENBERG--Philip. Beloved husband of the late Gertrude. Devoted father of Carol Testa (Michael), Stefani Weiss (Steven) and Adair Waldenberg (Jon). Cherished grandfather of Matthew Testa, Marlisse Testa-Shrode (Jason), Jonathon Weiss, Jeremy Weiss (Amy), Pearce Peck-Walden (May), and Shan
 Ed Peterson, who prowled the deserts, mountains and meadows of Southern California, often on his hands and knees, to collect wildflower seeds as part of a foundation's mission to preserve the area's native flora, died on Nov. 14 at a nursing home in Los Angeles. He was 100. The deat
 AIKEN--David M. Died suddenly in Palm Springs, CA on November 13, 2005 at age 57. He was a successful travel agent and longtime resident of NYC where he was born on October 11, 1948. He is survived by family and many very close friends. Memorial service in the Spring in Stonington, CT.     
 AMORE--Harold. I am saddened by the loss of my very dear and close friend, and architectural partner for 25 years, Harold Amore. I mourn his untimely passing. I will miss his kindness, his smile and his goodness. He was a gentleman in the true sense of the word. My deepest condolences to Es
 ARKIN--Bruce A. Of Pawleys Island, SC, formerly of Freehold, NJ and Basking Ridge, NJ on November 10, 2005. He is survived by his wife Nancy Jacobs Arkin, of 45 years; daughters Valerie Catanzaro & Lori Kunkle; grandchildren Matthew and Michael Catanzaro; sister Linda Arkin and sons-in-law 
 BERGER--Bernard. On November 24, 2005, two weeks after his 88th birthday, died at the Dallas Home for Jewish Aged. Born and raised on the Lower East Side, he studied finance at NYU before being drafted into the Army for W.W. II. Afterwards, he joined his father and brother George at J. Berg
 BOWLIN--Ron M. Passed away Thanksgiving Day. He was a local music composer and beloved friend of many. His special Mass will be Wednesday, November 30, at Corpus Christi Church, 11 AM. He is survived by longtime companion, Anthony Roger Grey of New York City.       
 BROWN--Harry Joe, Jr. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Harry Joe Brown, Jr. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M
 COHEN--Maley. Age 97, died peacefully on Friday, November 25th, and will be deeply missed. Beloved husband of the late Doris, father of Allen and the late Richard Cohen, he is also survived by daughter-in-law Carol Cohen, grandson Seth and companion Lydia Grishman.       
 HECTOR -- Louis J. Died peacefully on November 19th, one month before his 90th birthday. Predeceased by his first wife, Dorothy Anne Dooley, in 1973, he is survived by his wife, Nancy Bean Hector, his sons, Denis H. Hector (Joanna), William F. Hector, Louis J. Hector, Jr. (Hilde), and his d
 HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Aged 70, November 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Jo Ann Malkin Horowitz, loving father of Jay (Suzanne) and Stephen (Dorsey), dear stepfather of Harold Malkin (Jennifer) and Jill Addeo (Geoffrey) and adored grandfather Max, Ben, Leo, Ryan and Olivia. Born February 13, 1935,
 INDURSKY--David. On November 24, 2005. Beloved husband of Anne of 65 years. Dear father of Arthur and Deanne Indursky. Father of the late Howard Indursky. Father-in-law of Ellen Indursky. Cherished grandfather of Blake, Amy and Michael. We will miss his wonderful sense of humor, his warm sm
 OBOLER -- Hon. Alan D., known to his friends as ''El Zorro Gris''--a man among men, a friend among friends. A beloved husband, father, grandfather, father - in - law, brother, brother-in-law, uncle, great-uncle, and friend-loved in eternity. Veteran, lawyer, judge and our Hero-lost his batt
 PAPRIN--Maurice S. On November 25, 2005. Predeceased by his wife, Rita Most Paprin. Survived by his dedicated wife, Jacqueline Stuchin Paprin. Father of Seth, Yale (Lori), Judith (Richard) and Frederick (Wendy). Stepfather of Steven (Pamela) and Miles (Marci). Grandfather of 12. Valiant fig
 SHARPE--Timothy, 72, on November 9, 2005. Survived by his sisters Tippy, Sidney, Carla, and Hilary; sons Jason and Amory; daughters-in-law Liz and Marybeth; and grandchildren Emily and James. He was a graduate of Stanford University and served with distinction in Korea with the U.S. Army. H
 SIMON--Robert L. Beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather. Talented artisan and teacher. Generous and understanding friend. Kind, warm and funny. Survived by his wife Judith, his brother Daniel, his children Joanie, Peter and Nina and five grandchildren.       
 SOUDAKOFF--Jack, 87. Died peacefully November 19, 2005 surrounded by his beloved wife Bea, sons David & Alan, future daughter-in-law Diane. Also survived by daughter-inlaw Alla and four grandchildren. Dedicated family man, WWII vet, longtime NYS systems analyst, chessmaster. Jack, we miss y
 STUART--Jeb. (Born Robert Stenquist). On November 18, 2005. A kind and loving man. He will be remembered always. Memorial service in April. Call 212-532-6579.       
 THOMPSON -- Bruce Gene. (1929-2005) Age 76, loving husband and father, went home to be with the Lord on November 24, 2005 at his home in Toledo after a battle with cancer. Mr. Thompson was born on September 4, 1929 in Mount Vernon, NY. He was the second son of Robert Sydney Thompson and Ver
 TREANOR--Robert V. Suddenly on November 23, 2005 of Rockville Centre, LI. Executive Vice President of HSBC, NY, NY. Beloved father of Robert V. Treanor, Jr. and James D. Treanor. Dear son of Catherine and the late Vincent. Fond brother of Kathleen Cappelluti, Virginia Treanor Rubin, Theresa
 WALDENBERG--Philip. Beloved husband of the late Gertrude. Devoted father of Carol Testa (Michael), Stefani Weiss (Steven) and Adair Waldenberg (Jon). Cherished grandfather of Matthew Testa, Marlisse Testa-Shrode (Jason), Jonathon Weiss, Jeremy Weiss (Amy), Pearce Peck-Walden (May), and Shan
 WEIR--Maurice. Our beloved friend died in Palm Beach November 21 at age 92. He was unable to survive a cancer operation of six weeks ago. An interior designer in practice for over fifty years, he was a distingushed Fellow of the ASID, highly respected by his colleagues and clients, and deep
 LITTLEJOHN--Francis Newton, known as Fritz, a pioneer in television news, died on November 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 97 years old. His career in journalism spanned almost five decades. He was a News Editor (1937-1945) at the Associated Press; a News Writer, News Supervisor at NBC 
 RUTHERFORD--William A., Sr. The Trustees and staff of the Storm King Art Center express profound sorrow at the loss of their dear friend and landscape architect since the Art Center's inception in 1960. Over the years his vision and creativity guided the shaping of our landscape and its int
 Cornelius W. Owens, a longtime employee of AT&T who was president of its subsidiary, the New York Telephone Company, during one of its most trying periods, died Nov. 14 in Atlanta. He was 92. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Owens joined AT&T after coll
 George Taylor Conklin Jr., a former chief executive of the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, died on Nov. 4 at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 90. His death was announced by Guardian Life, one of the country's oldest and largest life insurance companies, which is 
 Harry Joe Brown Jr., a real estate executive whose birth into Hollywood royalty presaged the pizazz he generated by enlisting 34 leading architects to design one house each for a Hamptons residential development, died on Wednesday at his Manhattan home. He was 71. The cause was comp
 AIKEN--David. Beloved cousin, intrepid traveler and insouciant spirit, adventerous cook and dapper dresser, witty and wry; New Yorker by birth, California desert dweller by choice. David treasured the many generations of his Gallatin family. We will always remember and miss you, dear David.
 GOLDKOPF--Leonard A. 84, died November 26, 2005. Survived by his wife of 61 years, Reva; two daughters, Jane Meehan and Dr. Diane Goldkopf; and his grandchildren, Jake and Sarah Soffes. His son-in-law, Eliot Soffes, predeceased him. Services were held.       
 HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Aged 70, November 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Jo Ann Malkin Horowitz, loving father of Jay (Suzanne) and Stephen (Dorsey), dear stepfather of Harold Malkin (Jennifer) and Jill Addeo (Geoffrey) and adored grandfather Max, Ben, Leo, Ryan and Olivia. Born February 13, 1935,
 OBOLER -- Hon. Alan D., known to his friends as ''El Zorro Gris''--a man among men, a friend among friends. A beloved husband, father, grandfather, father - in - law, brother, brother-in-law, uncle, great-uncle, and friend-loved in eternity. Veteran, lawyer, judge and our Hero-lost his batt
 PREZIOSO--Silvio. We note with sorrow the passing of Silvio Prezioso on November 24, 2005, at the age of 94. Beloved husband of Jennie for 70 years. Father to Sylvia, MaryJane and Geraldine. Beloved father-in-law to Silvio and Danny, grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of twelve. Pas
 WILLETT -- Thornton Win slow, of Cobble Hill, Brooklyn. Died peacefully on November 25, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Martha Leah Miller Willett. Beloved father of Georgia Rogers Willett and Tamosin Rose Barsdley of Brooklyn, Benjamin Charles Willett of Seattle and the late David Winslo
 RUTHERFORD--William A., Sr. The Trustees and staff of the Storm King Art Center express profound sorrow at the loss of their dear friend and landscape architect since the Art Center's inception in 1960. Over the years his vision and creativity guided the shaping of our landscape and its int
 Maurice Sanford Paprin, a retired New York builder and property owner with another life as a liberal social activist, died on Friday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was an injury sustaine
 Michael E. Vacek, a lawyer widely considered one of the most influential lobbyists in Albany, died there on Saturday. He was 53. Mr. Vacek died in a hospital of injuries from an automobile accident on Friday evening. His death was confirmed by his firm, Vacek, Harris & McCormack.   
 BERTIN--Sidney. On November 25, 2005. Loving husband of the late Dorothy Bertin. Loving father of Michael & Susan; loving grandfather of Amy, Laura, Sarah, and Anna; great-grandfather of Ted, Allison, Nathan, and Jeffrey. Sidney was a beloved brother and uncle. He was kind, loyal, fun-lovin
 BLACK--Donald Miller. Passed away on Nov. 6, 2005 in Redding, CT. Born Denison, TX. April 18, 1922. Husband of Elizabeth for 58 years. Graduate of RPI (BS 1942), recruited to the Manhattan Project from MIT to which he returned after W.W. II (PhD 1947 and Sigma Xi Honorary Society); then emb
 ETKIN--Alex J. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Alex J. Etkin of Detroit, whose six decades of devotion to our organization stand as a beacon of unflagging support. He served in multiple leadership positions, including on the ATS Board o
 FEINBERG--Arthur W. M.D. Age 82, died on November 28, 2005. Loving husband of Harriet Newman Cohen Feinberg, and before that of Jean Dilbert Feinberg, the wife he lost in 1973, devoted father of Nancy Rheingrover (Jim), David Feinberg (Madeleine), Martha Cohen Stine (Carl), Amy Ziegelbaum (
 FRANKLIN--Ben A. The trustees and staff of the Public Concern Foundation mourn the passing of our great friend and colleague Ben A. Franklin, who served with quiet distinction for more than 12 years as the editor of the Washington Spectator. We extend our deepest sympathies to his widow, Ja
 GRAHAM--Edward C. On November 27, died of cancer. Preceded in death by his partner of 40 years: Howard Mandel. Beloved uncle, cousin, godfather and friend. Selfless volunteer at The League For the Hard of Hearing. He loved Manhattan, Central Park, classical music, dance and all things fine.
 GREY--Daniel. On November 27, 2005 at age 64. Loving father of Noel and Jennifer, brother of Irene, son of Louis and the late Anna. ''Dapper'' Dan will be dearly missed by his family and amazing friends.       
 HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Aged 70, November 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Jo Ann Malkin Horowitz, loving father of Jay (Suzanne) and Stephen (Dorsey), dear stepfather of Harold Malkin (Jennifer) and Jill Addeo (Geoffrey) and adored grandfather Max, Ben, Leo, Ryan and Olivia. Born February 13, 1935,
 KELLAND--Michael Buckner, 62. Died peacefully at his home in New York City on November 27 with his family at his side. He fought a courageous battle and ultimately succumbed to cancer. Beloved husband of Lisa Cobey Kelland and loving father of three children, Jennifer Pierson Kelland of Pro
 LEICHTER -- Harry. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 PAPRIN--Maurice S. Passed away on November 25, 2005. Former president of Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York, where he led the Association in the development of the residential matrix of this great city. He was concerned with that which would benefit our great city. Our sympa
 VACEK--Michael E. The governors, members and staff of the Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing ofMichael Vacek. Michael represented REBNY with distinction before the New York State Legislature for nearly two decades. His work always met the highest professional standards. We exte
 AMORE--Harold. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Harold Amore, whose dedication to work, kindness of heart and gentleness of spirit will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathies to his wife Estelle and all his loved ones. Alan and Diane Goldstein       
 DOMENITZ--Arnold. March 10, 1915--November 28, 2005. Survived by his wife Rosalind, daughter Ellen Levin & son Andrew. Beloved grandfather and great-grandfather. Loved and adored by all who knew him. DOMENITZ--Arnold. The officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Engineers 
 FEINBERG--Arthur W. M.D. Age 82, died on November 28, 2005. Loving husband of Harriet Newman Cohen Feinberg, and before that of Jean Dilbert Feinberg, the wife he lost in 1973, devoted father of Nancy Rheingrover (Jim), David Feinberg (Madeleine), Martha Cohen Stine (Carl), Amy Ziegelbaum (
 GELLER--Henry. Of Boca Raton, FL, died Sunday, November 27, 2005, in his home. He was born in the Bronx, NY, on July 16, 1925. He is survived by his wife, Carol Geller and his three children, Laura, Robert and Janet and his grandson, Daniel Geller. Henry Geller was not only a loving and sup
 HOROWITZ--George Q on November 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Renee. Loving father of Seth, his wife Lori and Robin. Devoted son of Libby. Dear brother of Don, Linda, Ruby and Jackie. George became CEO and Chairman of Everlast Worldwide Inc., in October 2000 after spending over 30 years in th
 HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Lew Lew we love you so much. You were the most fun in our lives. Loads of hugs and kisses to the world's best grandpa. Max, Ben, Leo and Ryan HOROWITZ--Lewis. To the man of 1,001 hats with a song always in his heart. Here's to ten glorious years you gave to making
 MANDEL--David J. Of Manhattan, on November 29, 2005. Son of Zelda and Victor, brother of Gloria. Survived by his beloved wife, Judith, and daughter, Nancy. Also survived by his loving niece and nephew, Carole and Bruce, and their children. Services Thursday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76
 OSHINSKY--Stephen Warren. 64. Died November 23 surrounded by his family at home in Georgia after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Steve is survived by his wife Carolyn, children Joshua, Allison and Sarah, daughter - in - law Christina, sons-in-law Chris and Rod, grandchildren Zac
 STEWART--Dillon. The staff of WNYC, New York Public Radio, mourns the untimely loss of our friend and former colleague, Dillon Stewart, who spent nearly a decade as a staff member in our finance department. We will forever admire his courage and sense of duty. We extend our deepest sympathi
 YOUNG--Nicholas, M.D. On November 29, 2005. Loving husband of Marianne and caring stepfather of Anthony & John Low-Beer. Dr. Young was very much appreciated and loved as a teacher of psychoanalysis and psychiatry. His sense of humor, his wit and his charm will never be forgotten. Services a
 ASKANAS--Aleksandra. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of The Division of Cardiology and The Department of Medicine in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Aleksandra Askanas, beloved wife of our dear friend and long-time colleague, Alexan
 Stan Berenstain, who with his wife, Jan, churned out more than 250 books showing how the warm and fuzzy Berenstain Bears -- Mama, Papa, Brother and Sister -- confronted and learned from life's little crises, died on Saturday in Doylestown, Pa. He was 82. The cause was lymphoma, Mrs.
 Vic Power, the stylish-fielding first baseman who was one of the first Latino stars in the major leagues in the decade after World War II, died yesterday at a hospital in Bayamn, P.R. He was 78. The cause was cancer, his sister Carmen Pellot Power told The Associated Press.       
