 Danny Perasa, a nimble-witted leprechaun of a man who captivated radio listeners across the nation with goofy, slyly wise stories, most touchingly about his romance with the woman who became his wife, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 67, and died in the arms of that wo
 BAAS--Charles William. Of Easley, SC, formerly of Keowee Key, SC, East Hampton, NY and New Jersey; husband of Gertrude Rosenast, died Monday, February 27, 2006. He served 41 years as Treasurer of the American Bible Society; additionally he served as Treasurer of the United Bible Societies a
 CUTLER--Peter, 56. On February 27, 2006. Adoring husband and soulmate to Meri, devoted father to Jared and Casey, loving step-dad to Jordan and Camee, beloved brother to Wendy and Alan, loving uncle to Josh and Brian. A fun loving, generous man, Peter's gift of storytelling charmed all who 
 GROH--The Hon. Robert Theodore. Of Quogue on February 27, 2006 in his 91st year. Loving grandfather of Anne Law (James) of East Moriches, NY. Devoted friend and companion of Thomas C. Feaster of Quogue, NY. Predeceased by his loving wife, Anne Marie Groh (nee Conlin), daughter Kathleen Mari
 HOWLAND--David, 95. Of Bedford, MA. formerly of New Canaan, CT. February 27, 2006. Son of Charles P. and Virginia Howland. Survived by his devoted wife of 69 years, Nancy Moller Howland of Bedford, MA and his loving children Faith Howland of Concord, MA and Charles P. Howland of Palm Spring
 KEUFFEL--Ken. I rejoice in the life of Ken Keuffel. He is a gentle man and my first mentor. My thoughts are with his family. Allan Lenzner       
 LICHTENSTEIN - Ira. The Employees of Eric Marder Associates deeply mourn the loss of our Past President. For over 30 years, EMA was his second home and its employees, his second family. Over all those years, and to the very end of his life, we continue to reap the substantial benefits of hi
 LUSTIG--Sydell. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our member, Sydell Lustig, widow of the late Sol Lustig, and mother of Dr. Robert Chimsky-Lustig and his spouse, Mark Chimsky-Lustig and grandmother to their son Alan. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to their families and all
 MARAVEL--James Peter. On February 27, he was 93. WWII Veteran, loving husband of the late Lillian. Beloved father of Alexis DiGrazia and the late Patricia. Cherished grandfather of Marisa Milo, Christina Morlano, Jessica Maravel-Piccolo, Alex Maravel and great grandfather of Jordan and Mich
 PERRY--Donald Dunham, 83, of Milford, NJ, and North Truro, MA, on February 23, 2006. Harvard graduate, US Army Air Corps WWII, retired research chemist. Survived by wife of 48 years, Helen (Knubel), sons Thomas (Judy) of Easley, SC, Andrew of Newton, MA, and David of Santa Cruz, CA, and gra
 RAWITZ--Irwin. On February 28, 2006, at the age of 87. Loving husband of Ann for fifty years. Devoted father of Gary, Stella, Marcy, Mitchell, and Melissa. Proud grandfather of Andrew, Alexander, and Brittney. He was very wonderful. Services Wednesday 11:30 A.M. at Riverside Nassau North Ch
 SCHERZER--Irwin S. Passed away at the age of 73 on February 24, 2006. Beloved son of the late Hyman and Bertha Scherzer. Irwin grew up in Lynn, Massachusetts and was an honors graduate of Harvard College Class of 1954 and Harvard Business School Class of 1956. He served for two years as a c
 SILVER--Pauline, 90. February 28, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Silver. Beloved sister of Joseph Saslaw. Devoted mother of Robert Silver and his wife Bonnie, and Kenneth Silver and his wife Jacqueline. Loving grandmother of Greg, Scott, John, Bonnie, Jeffrey, Daniel and Zachary. L
 GRUMBACHER - Joseph. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center records with profound sorrow, the passing of our esteemed colleague Joseph Grumbacher. For 45 years, Joe served as a Trustee on the Board and was a major benefactor. Several facilities, including the emergency departmen
 William V. Musto, a former Union City mayor who was a charismatic and visionary force in New Jersey politics for decades, until he was convicted of racketeering and sent to federal prison, died on Monday at home in Union City. He was 88. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's di
 Arnold A. Rogow, an author and political scientist who trained as a psychoanalyst to gain insight into historical figures like Alexander Hamilton, died on Feb. 14 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was complications of a stroke, his daughter
 Milton Katims, an American conductor and noted violist who played under Toscanini and led the Seattle Symphony for more than two decades, died on Monday in Shoreline, Wash., a suburb of Seattle. He was 96. The cause was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the Seattle Symphony said.    
 Owen Chamberlain, who shared a Nobel Prize for discovering the antiproton, opening a glimpse into the strange world of antimatter, whose mysteries tantalize scientists to this day, died Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 85. The cause was complications of Parkinson's dis
 BAAS--Charles William. Of Easley, SC, formerly of Keowee Key, SC, East Hampton, NY and New Jersey; husband of Gertrude Rosenast, died Monday, February 27, 2006. He served 41 years as Treasurer of the American Bible Society; additionally he served as Treasurer of the United Bible Societies a
 BENTON--Nicholas, 79, on February 26, 2006 in Manhattan. Time-Life Books and magazines executive for 33 years, Bwy and Off-Bwy producer, President of NYC Opera Guild, recipient of The Mayor's Volunteer Award Of The Year for his work with The Harvard/Radcliffe Tutoring Program. He was an avi
 BLATT--Allan H. Age 53. Beloved son of Jeanne and Mortimer, brother of Ronald D. Blatt, M.D. and his wife, Elisa T. Blatt, passed away Monday, February 27, 2006. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. on March 3 at 11:45 A.M.       
 CUTLER--Peter. The Board of Governors and Membership of Ridgeway Country Club express their deepest sorrow in the passing of longstanding Members and friends, Mr. Peter Cutler, on Monday, February 27, 2006. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Meri and the Cutler family.       
 FREIDES--Jack. Of Larchmont, NY. Died March 1, 2006 at age 82. Born January 21, 1924 in NYC to Harry and Esther (Horshovsky) Freides. Survived by his wife Barbara (Greene), sons Randall (Judy) and Drew, grandchildren Rebecca and Adam and a sister Shirley Lesser (Richard). Funeral Service Fr
 GOSSETT--O. Milton, 80. Milt worked his way up the advertising industry ladder reaching Chairman and CEO of Compton Advertising and later CEO of Saatchi & Saatchi. While he was very successful in his career, his most favorite things to do were fishing and gardening. He leaves loving wife An
 GOULD--Jack U. On March 1, 2006. Beloved husband of Esther. Loving father of Jessica Stuart Yudelson and fatherin-law of Jerry Yudelson. Also survived by many dear friends. Services Sunday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be ma
 GROH--The Hon. Robert Theodore. Of Quogue on February 27, 2006 in his 91st year. Loving grandfather of Anne Law (James) of East Moriches, NY. Devoted friend and companion of Thomas C. Feaster of Quogue, NY. Predeceased by his loving wife, Anne Marie Groh (nee Conlin), daughter Kathleen Mari
 KERNAN--John Devereux III. Of Hamden, CT. Died on February 22, 2006 at Connecticut Hospice. Born in New York City in 1911, he was the son of Dr. John Devereux Kernan, Jr. and Charlotte Sherrill, and husband of the late Una Greene Kernan. He graduated from Canterbury School (1930), Harvard C
 KOHLOFF--Roland. The entire Juilliard community mourn the passing of Roland Kohloff, a member of the faculty since 1978 and Chairman of the Percussion Department. A brilliant performer, dedicated teacher, and compassionate human being, Roland was a passionate advocate also for his students 
 RAWITZ--Irwin. On February 28, 2006, at the age of 87. Loving husband of Ann for fifty years. Devoted father of Gary, Stella, Marcy, Mitchell, and Melissa. Proud grandfather of Andrew, Alexander, and Brittney. He was very wonderful.       
 ROSENTHAL--Maurice Milton (Sharkey). WWII veteran, passed away peacefully on March 1, 2006. Former resident of Trenton, NJ and Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by his beloved wife, Beverly, sister, Dorothy Saaz, sons, Andrew and Robert, daughter, Jane Schorr, son-in-law, Marc Schorr, and cher
 SEGAL--Arnold. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of longtime friend and supporter, Arnold Segal. A member of the President's Circle, he advanced the Institute's interests in his New Jersey community and provided a major gift in support of resear
 Benjamin Matthews, an operatic bass-baritone who was a founder of the Opera Ebony company, died on Feb. 14 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was the effects of a stroke he had in early January, said Anthony Turner, the secretary-treasurer of the Ope
 Michael S. Joyce, who as steward of the Olin and Bradley foundations was an influential patron of leading conservative research and civic organizations, died on Feb. 24 at a hospice in Germantown, Wis. He was 63 and lived in West Bend, Wis. The cause was liver disease, said Frank Ca
 BARRY--Robert. Age 85, February 28, 2006, in New York City, passed peacefully away. Yale Drama School graduate. Long time CBS top Lighting Director. Well remembered for his work with Walter Cronkite and on CBS Sixty Minutes with Dan Rather. Survived by three nieces and two nephews of Califo
 BENTON--Nicholas, 79, on February 26, 2006 in Manhattan. Time-Life Books and magazines executive for 33 years, Bwy and Off-Bwy producer, President of NYC Opera Guild, recipient of The Mayor's Volunteer Award Of The Year for his work with The Harvard/Radcliffe Tutoring Program. He was an avi
 BLATT--Allan H. Age 53. Beloved son of Jeanne and Mortimer, brother of Ronald D. Blatt, M.D. and his wife, Elisa T. Blatt, passed away Monday, February 27, 2006. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. on March 3 at 11:45 A.M.       
 DOHERTY--Sean Spaeth. Of Tarrytown, New York, suddenly on February 27th, 2006, at age 53. He is survived by sisters, Marna, Meghan, Sarah Doherty, Lisa Greene, brother, Gregory, two nieces and four nephews. He was a gentle man and will be greatly missed.       
 GARDNER--Joseph Howard, 78. On March 1, 2006. Cherished husband of Charlotte for 47 years. Incredibly devoted father of Danielle and the late Douglas (Jennifer). Brother of Florence Strauss. Adored grandfather of Michael and Julia. A true New Yorker, and a graduate of New York University, h
 GOSSETT--O. Milton. Known to all as Milt. Passed away March 1. I knew him for 21 years as my boss and friend. A great man, a do gooder to hundreds and an icon in the world of advertising. He and his wonderful wife Anna welcomed me to their home and made me feel one of the family. My heartfe
 GROH--The Hon. Robert Theodore. Of Quogue on February 27, 2006 in his 91st year. Loving grandfather of Anne Law (James) of East Moriches, NY. Devoted friend and companion of Thomas C. Feaster of Quogue, NY. Predeceased by his loving wife, Anne Marie Groh (nee Conlin), daughter Kathleen Mari
 HINTON - James. The Trustees and Staff of the Hudson River Museum record with sorrow the passing of Jim Hinton, Trustee of the Museum. He was a researcher, teacher, filmmaker, photographer and, above all, an artist whose photographs bear eloquent testimony to the tragedies and triumphs of A
 KOHLOFF--Roland. The entire Juilliard community mourn the passing of Roland Kohloff, a member of the faculty since 1978 and former Chairman of the Percussion Department. A brilliant performer, dedicated teacher, and compassionate human being, Roland was a passionate advocate also for his st
 LUKOFF--Irving F., Ph.D. The Columbia University School of Social Work records with profound sorrow the recent death of Professor Emeritus Irving F. Lukoff on February 27. A member of the faculty from 1968--1991, he was former Director of the School's Center for Demonstration and Research a
 MILLER--Abraham, 91, died at home on February 25, 2006. He will be missed by wife Mildred, daughters Elizabeth and Naomi, many friends, and former colleagues from Montefiore Medical Center.       
 RAWITZ--Irwin. On February 28, 2006, at the age of 87. Loving husband of Ann for fifty years. Devoted father of Gary, Stella, Marcy, Mitchell, and Melissa. Proud grandfather of Andrew, Alexander, and Brittney. He was very wonderful.       
 ROSENTHAL--Maurice Milton (Sharkey). WWII veteran, passed away peacefully on March 1, 2006. Former resident of Trenton, NJ and Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by his beloved wife, Beverly, sister, Dorothy Saaz, sons, Andrew and Robert, daughter, Jane Schorr, son-in-law, Marc Schorr, and cher
 SEGAL--Arnold, March 1, 2006 of Maplewood, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Hattie for 68 years, exceptional father to Richard and Poppy, Kenneth and Karen, Stephen and Patricia, extraordinary grandfather to Cory, Randi, Robyn, Allyson, Michelle, Adam, Adina, Noah and Zachary, proud great-gra
 WHITE--William R. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn the passing of our former Senior Vice President, William R. White. For close to twenty years he helped shape the image of the Company by developing communications and presenta
 WOLF--Gerald Liebers. Beloved husband of Audrey Laibson Wolf, father of Marc, Ralph, Amy, father-in-law of Kevin, grandfather of Molly, brother of Ellis, dear brotherin-law and uncle. We will miss his warmth, love, humor, curiosity, rich appetite for new adventures and his music. He was an 
 Roland L. Kohloff, principal timpanist of the New York Philharmonic for 32 years, who was known for his effortless grace on one of the orchestra's most exposed instruments, died on Feb. 24 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said the Philharmonic's spo
 Henry M. Morris, the father of modern creationism, whose prolific writings sought scientific validation for a literal interpretation of the Bible and provided the intellectual underpinnings for attacks on evolution as an account of world history, died last Saturday in a hospital near San Di
 BROWN--David. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, David Brown, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Eleanor and family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club David Simon, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 DRYFOOS--Hon. Robert J. On March 2, 2006. Son of the late Edith and Jerry Dryfoos, survived by Susan Dymond and their family Clifford, Jason and Abby Fishkind, and two adoring granddaughters. He will be forever remembered as a courageous, passionate man whose love of life and all things New
 GARDNER - Joseph. The board and staff of the 34th Street Partnership mourn the passing of our longtime supporter and board member. An innovative redeveloper in our neighborhood, Joe was one of the brightest, most conscientious, and kindest people any of us have ever encountered. Bruce Gittl
 OSTROFF--Harold, on March 2nd, 2006. Husband of the late Frieda. Father of Madelon and Philip Braun and the late Sandra Ostroff. Grandfather of Kelli and Andrew Braun, Jessica and Andrew Rich, Alison Gottlieb and Geoffrey Friedman, Debra and Pat Ewing. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey, Matthew,
 PETRELLI--Joseph A. A resident of Rye, NY, passed away peacefully at his home on March 2, 2006. He was born on September 24, 1921 in New York City. He graduated from Stuyvesant High School and City College of New York. He served his country during World War II as a Captain in the Army Corps
 SOKOLOW--Arthur D. Age 77, passed away peacefully at his Riverdale, N.Y. home on March 2, 2006. Beloved brother of Martin Sokolow and the late Ruth White and great friend of Jane Genth. A graduate of Horace Mann School and Colorado College, he served as a 1st Lieutenant in the 45th Infantry
 STEIN--Martin F. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the passing of Martin F. Stein. An esteemed national leader, Marty also served in several top Wisconsin campaign positions. His great achievements on behalf of Israel, the Jewish people, and the community in gener
 TATE -- Frederick George. age 81, retired attorney and former partner at Rogers & Wells in New York City, died in Washington D.C. on Monday, February 27, of a heart attack. He was the son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Wills Hills Tate of Wakefield, MA. He is survived by his wife Janice, son Thom
 Peter Osgood, a star of English soccer in the late 1960's and early 70's, and a glamorous figure for the Chelsea club, died Wednesday after collapsing at a family funeral in Slough, near London. He was 59. Osgood's death was announced by Chelsea. The Guardian and The Daily Telegraph
 The Rev. Earl Stallings, a prominent Baptist pastor in Birmingham, Ala., who in 1963 risked the rejection of his own white congregation, and worse, by seating African-American worshipers among them at his Easter service and urging reconciliation amid the city's erupting racial antagonisms, 
 BERK -- Dr. Charles. On March 4, 2006 seven weeks short of his 96th birthday. His wife Helen Goell Berk, with whom he enjoyed 60 years of marital bliss died in 1993. Born in Manhattan but raised in Brooklyn, the two principal loves of his life were his family and the practice of medicine. A
 DOHERTY--Sean Spaeth. Of Tarrytown, New York, suddenly on February 27th, 2006, at age 53. He is survived by sisters, Marna, Meghan, Sarah Doherty, Lisa Greene, brother, Gregory, two nieces and four nephews. He was a gentle man and will be greatly missed.       
 DRYFOOS--Hon. Robert J. On March 2, 2006. Son of the late Edith and Jerry Dryfoos, survived by Susan Dymond and their family Clifford, Jason and Abby Fishkind, and two adoring granddaughters. He will be forever remembered as a courageous, passionate man whose love of life and all things New
 FORD--Joseph M., MD. 86. On February 16, 2006 at his home in Sagaponack, NY. Retired Attending Surgeon and former Chairman, Department of Thoracic Surgery, Roosevelt Hospital. Survived by his wife Barbara White Ford, his daughter Sara Eliot Ford of Bridgehampton, NY and his son John Ford of
 GARDNER--Joe. Joe Gardner was one of a kind. In an age of rough-and-tumble real estate developers, Joe was like an oasis. He was kind, generous, thoughtful, considerate, honorable and committed to doing the right thing at all times. Over 25 years of doing business with P&J Realty, Newmark K
 KESSLER--Jerome. In memory of Jerome Kessler a visionary real estate entrepreneur and long time business partner. Jerry was a mentor, friend and unique individual whose strong character and broad experience benefitted all who knew him. His achievements are notable, among them, Metro Tech in
 McKEGNEY -- F. Patrick, M.D. A leader in the field of psychosomatic medicine and consultation liaison psychiatry died on February 3, 2006. He was 73. Dr. McKegney was a beloved husband, parent, teacher and friend. He is survived by his wife of 19 years, Ellie and by five children from his f
 MILLER--Philip B. A brilliant thinker, inspiring teacher, and charming human being, died February 10, 2006, in Manhattan. Born in Boston, in 1930, he earned a B.A. from Bard College and a Ph.D. from Yale University. He began his career teaching comparative literature and German at Princeton
 NARAMORE--John C., 69. On February 20, 2006, in Wolfeboro, NH. Graduate of Eaglebrook School, Vermont Academy and Clarkson University. Also attended and supported Keewaydin Camp, Salisbury, VT. Employee of The Travelers Insurance, founding shareholder of Consolidated Group Trust. Moved to W
 OSTROFF--Harold, on March 2nd, 2006. Husband of the late Frieda. Father of Madelon and Philip Braun and the late Sandra Ostroff. Grandfather of Kelli and Andrew Braun, Jessica and Andrew Rich, Alison Gottlieb and Geoffrey Friedman, Debra and Pat Ewing. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey, Matthew,
 PETRELLI--Joseph A. A resident of Rye, NY, passed away peacefully at his home on March 2, 2006. He was born on September 24, 1921 in New York City. He graduated from Stuyvesant High School and City College of New York. He served his country during World War II as a Captain in the Army Corps
 PORTMAN--Bernard, 74. On March 2, 2006. Loving husband of Marythe. Beloved father of Pierre and his wife, Patricia, from Houston, TX. Proud grandfather of Amanda and Sarah. He is also survived by his sister, Phyllis, and brother-in-law Al Lerman. His career spanned over 50 years in the spec
 PRESKY--Albert. Age 87, on February 24, 2006. Loving husband of the late Esther and devoted father of David and the late Marcia. Al will be missed by Hilda Welsh, the center of his life for the past 14 years. The memories of Al's kindness, intelligence and gentle sense of humor will live on
 RABBE--Richard Frederick. 93, born June 12, 1912 in New York, NY, passed away on Saturday October 7, 2005 in Naples, FL. Son of the late Frederick Rabbe and Amelia Voege Rabbe, he graduated from The Dwight School for Boys and was the Class of 1935 at Colgate University, Hamilton, NY. He ser
 ROSS--Dr. Frank Fulton III, 81. Professor emeritus of communication, scholar, and beloved mentor, died January 30, 2006. Dr. Ross was born in Ryan, Iowa on December 30, 1924. Lovingly known as Fulton to family and friends, he served in the U.S. Army Field Artillery Division in World War II.
 SOKOLOW--Arthur D. Age 77, passed away peacefully at his Riverdale, N.Y. home on March 2, 2006. Beloved brother of Martin Sokolow and the late Ruth White and great friend of Jane Genth. A graduate of Horace Mann School and Colorado College, he served as a 1st Lieutenant in the 45th Infantry
 TATE -- Frederick George. age 81, retired attorney and former partner at Rogers & Wells in New York City, died in Washington D.C. on Monday, February 27, of a heart attack. He was the son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Wills Hills Tate of Wakefield, MA. He is survived by his wife Janice, son Thom
 WOLF--Gerald Liebers. Beloved husband of Audrey Laibson Wolf, father of Marc, Ralph, Amy, father-in-law of Kevin, grandfather of Molly, brother of Ellis, dear brotherin-law and uncle. We will miss his warmth, love, humor, curiosity, rich appetite for new adventures and his music. He was an 
 WOLPER - David. Beloved husband of Vera. Father to Ilene and sister and brotherin-law Harriet and Bill Barash. We will all miss him dearly.       
 ZINOX--Abe. A lifelong Queens resident, passed away February, 2006. Successful entrepreneur. Served his country in WWII and his community as school volunteer. He is loved and missed by family and friends. He is survived by his wife of 63 years Effie Smith Zinox, son Lawrence (Elizabeth his 
 Walerian Borowczyk, an internationally known Surrealist filmmaker described variously by critics as a genius, a pornographer and a genius who also happened to be a pornographer, died on Feb. 3 in Paris, where he had resided since the late 1950's. He was 82. The cause was heart troub
 Frank Little, a tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for five seasons but ultimately left the stage for a career as an arts administrator and educator, died on Feb. 22 at a palliative care center in Skokie, Ill. He was 69. He died of complications of cardiac arrest, said his son
 Harold Ostroff, a builder responsible for some of New York's largest nonprofit cooperative housing complexes, including Co-Op City in the Bronx, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 and died after a long illness, said Madelon Braun, his daughter. Mr. Ostroff 
 BISNOFF--Roy. Passed away peacefully in Boca Raton, FL, after a long struggle with emphysema, on March 4th, 2006. Beloved for his acerbic wit and self-depricating humor, Roy was a sought after companion for many devoted friends during his 76 years as a resident of New York and Florida. Roy 
 BYERS--George Edward Jr. Of Hamden and Norfolk, CT, died March 2, 2006, after a long struggle with Parkinson's disease. He is survived by his wife, Jane Clark Byers, and three children. Funeral services will be held at Dwight Chapel, Yale University, on March 11, at 11 am.       
 CHAPLIN--Sidney. Executive Vice President, General Manager, Southern Wine & Spirits of Nevada, a division of Southern Wine & Spirits of America, Inc., died on March 2, 2006; he was 82, and died after a short illness in Miami, Florida. A Brooklyn, New York native, Mr. Chaplin graduated from 
 FUZESI--Dr. Stephen. 85, of Hamden, CT, died suddenly on March 3, at the Yale New Haven Hospital. He was the husband of Martha Jancso Fuzesi. Born January 10, 1921, in Nagybereg, Hungary, a son of the late Jozsef and Terez Fuzesi, he received a doctor of laws degree in Budapest. After the 1
 LOVETT--Helen, 82, of Boynton Beach, FL. Formerly of Douglaston, NY, and Cranbury, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Martin Lovett; mother of Phyllis and Larry Mazer, and Ronald Lovett; grandmother of Erick Eidus and Zachary Mazer; sister of Ralph Stein and his wife Hannah, and the late Rubin St
 OSTROFF - Harold. The members of the Atran Foundation wish to express their sadness and deep loss at the passing of their friend and colleague, Harold Ostroff. A member representing the Workmen's Circle since 1974, and Director since 1975, Harold was a formidable voice in directing the Atra
 WOLFSON - David. Passed away peacefully on March 3rd, 2006. Born on May 7th, 1914. He was predeceased by his wife of 61 years, Frieda. A true gentleman and mensch of the old-school, he was an exceptional father to Andie (Jimmy) Koplik, Larry (Robin) Wolfson, cherished grandfather of Kimberl
 Dr. Seymour Furman, a cardiologist who devised a way to insert pacemakers into patients without performing surgery, died on Feb. 20 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in the Bronx. He was 74. The cause of death was complications of cardiovascular disease, his son Neil Furman said.     
 Eathon G. Hall Jr., an innovative curator in New York and New Jersey who became devoted to providing art and curatorial training to high school students in Newark, died on Feb. 18 while on vacation in São Paulo, Brazil. He was 40. His partner, Tim Merrell, said that Mr. Hall died a
 Dr. Francis M. Forster, a neurologist and university leader who helped treat President Dwight D. Eisenhower for his 1957 stroke, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital in Cincinnati. He was 94. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Dr. Forster, a dean of Georgetown's medical 
 Kirby Puckett, the Hall of Fame outfielder for the Minnesota Twins, acclaimed for his sunny personality and his passion for baseball, died yesterday at a hospital in Phoenix. He was 45. The cause was complications from a stroke he had Sunday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz., the Twi
 BAFARO--Carl A. ''Tony'', 62, of Worcester, MA, died Saturday, March 4, 2006. He leaves his wife of nearly forty years, Carol A. (Guptill) Bafaro; a son, Frank Bafaro II, and his wife Catherine, of McLean, Virginia; two daughters, Laura Ann Bourdelais, and her husband David, of Worcester, a
 BERGER--Gustav, 85. Master art conservator, researcher, inventor, lecturer and author, died peacefully at home, March 5, 2006. Recipient of national and international honors, including Honorary Membership in the American Institute for Conservation and the Austrian Cross of Honor for Art and
 DRYFOOS--Robert. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Robert Dryfoos. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shiva will be observed at the home of Susan Dymond, 300 E. 74th St on Monday & Tuesday evenings from 6-9. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabb
 GARDNER--Joseph Howard. We will miss our dear friend Joe. His passion and love for life was contagious. His wisdom and guidance will sorely be missed. Our most heartfelt sympathy to his wife Charlotte, his daughter Danielle, his daughter-in-law Jennifer & his grandchildren Michael and Julia
 GERVEY--Mel. On March 4, 2006. Navy man, never far from the water. Lived a life of perfect order. Now buried by his beloved daughter.       
 KUNG--Albert P. On March 2, 2006. Beloved, longtime companion of the late Celia M. Fitzgerald. Loving son of Ying Kung. Devoted brother of Philip, Roger, Ruby Tsai and Julia Shih. Cherished by stepdaughter Louise Hepworth and grandchildren Dashiell and Tiarna Hepworth and Emer, John Patrick
 PARRY -- George Kramer. Died on March 4, 2006 in New York City. Born on December 24, 1934, he was the son of Henry Laurens Parry and Olivia Kramer Parry of Great Neck, New York. A longtime resident of New York City and Stowe, VT, George will be greatly missed by his beloved wife, Catherine 
 SCHUMAN--Richard Matthew. On March 5, 2006. Beloved son of Andrea Schuman. I'll never let you go, I love you so much. You were my life. Cherished grandson of Walter Green. A Funeral service on Tuesday, 11 A.M., at Mount Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, Long Island. $(6$)SCHUMAN--Richar
 SEIDEN--Elliot, 81. Passed away March 5, 2006. Longtime companion and friend of Peter. His sense of humor and his love for the English Language and Literature will be missed. Funeral at 5 P.M. today, at Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, Dobbs Ferry (Saw Mill exit 17). Visiting 3-5 PM today. Memo
 SHEIN--Simra E., M.D. The entire Peninsula Hospital Center family is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Dr. Simra E. Shein, Director, Department of Surgery, and active member of the medical and dental staff for many years. His gracious, steady and distinguished presence as well as his
 BONDY--Thomas J. Died in Phoenix, Arizona, on March 7, 2005, after a brief illness from liver cancer at the age of 70. A refugee of the Holocaust from Czechoslovakia, he arrived in New York at the age of five with his mother and brother; the rest of the family perished. He began his career 
 Philip H. Coombs, who championed promoting education and American culture as tools of diplomacy during the Kennedy administration and organized the first State Department bureau to lead the effort, died on Feb. 15 in Chester, Conn. He was 90. The death was announced by his family.  
 Ali Farka Touré, the self-taught Malian guitarist and songwriter who merged West African traditions with the blues and carried his music to a worldwide audience, winning two Grammy Awards, died in his sleep on Monday at his farm in the village of Niafunke in northwestern Mali, the Ministry
 Gordon Parks, the photographer, filmmaker, writer and composer who used his prodigious, largely self-taught talents to chronicle the African-American experience and to retell his own personal history, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. His death was announced by Gen
 ADLER--Irving, 92. Died in his sleep March 3 at his home in Pompano Beach, FL. He previously lived in Washington, DC, and had been president of Columbia Builders. He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Rose Feldman Adler.       
 AMORY--Harcourt, 82. Of Vero Beach, FL. Formerly of New York City and Pound Ridge, NY, March 1, 2006. Survived by his devoted wife, Jean Moore Amory, and their children Dita Amory Nickson, Jean Trudeau Fenn, Garry Trudeau, Michelle Trudeau and six grandchildren. Previously married to Dita N
 BARKIN--Herbert L. Age 83 of Fairfield, CT previously of Harrison, NY, passed away peacefully in Fairfield on Tuesday, March 7. Dearest husband of Bunny Wiesenthal Barkin. Loving father of Joel L. and the late Paula Lee of Coral Springs, FL and Samuel and Madeleine of Rye Brook, NY. Devoted
 BROWN--Walter Thaddeus, PhD. Of Hillsdale, NJ and Adirondack, NY died on March 5, 2006. He was 63 years old. A three time recipient of Fulbright Fellowships, Dr. Brown was Professor of African History and International Studies for 33 years at Ramapo College in New Jersey, during which time 
 DOWD--Anthony P., 67. Of Colts Neck. Beloved Clan Leader of the Rowdy Dowd crowd, passed away at home on March 5, 2006. He was born to Walter J. and Marie R. Dowd in Brooklyn, NY. He was a member of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, Friendly Sons of the Shillelaghs, Founder of the Dad's Club
 IRVANI--Rahim Mottaghi, 86. Died at home in London on March 3, 2006. He will be missed by his wife Zinat; his daughters and sons-in-law Nezhat and Hassan Khosrowshahi, and Maryam and Vahid Alaghband; his son and daughter-in-law Bahman and Roya Irvani; sons Ali, Abbass, Abdulrahim, Behnam, F
 KUNG--Albert P. On March 2, 2006. Beloved, longtime companion of the late Celia M. Fitzgerald. Loving son of Ying Kung. Devoted brother of Philip, Roger, Ruby Tsai and Julia Shih. Cherished by stepdaughter Louise Hepworth and grandchildren Dashiell and Tiarna Hepworth and Emer, John Patrick
 MURRIE--Richard Wallace. Of New York City, died peacefully at age 88 on March 6 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 30 years Rita T. Murrie, his stepson Steven Finley and stepdaughter Elizabeth Vary, four beloved stepgrandchildren, and his nephew William M. Clevenger and nie
 PARRY -- George Kramer. Died on March 4, 2006 in New York City. Born on December 24, 1934, he was the son of Henry Laurens Parry and Olivia Kramer Parry of Great Neck, New York. A longtime resident of New York City and Stowe, VT, George will be greatly missed by his beloved wife, Catherine 
 WARNOW--Morton Charles, 80. Of Danbury, CT. died Friday, March 3, 2006 of natural causes. Morton served in W.W. II and wrote a novel, ''Forced March,'' based upon his experiences as a Jewish POW. He was an inventor most recently of devices to assist the deaf. Morton was the son of Lucky Str
 WOLF--David H. Passed away after a courageous battle with cancer on March 6th, 2006. Born on August 5th, 1946. A one-of-a-kind warm, caring, loving, and highly intellectual gentleman of the old-school, he is survived by his beloved wife, Dorothy, parents Ruth and Irving, and brother, Scott.
 ZIMMERMAN--Edward J.P. A former tax advisor to the Rockefeller family, died March 6, of heart failure, at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center near his home in New York City. He was 86 years old. A graduate of Harvard College and the University of Virginia Law School, he was a tax specialis
 ALEXANDER - Florence. Mohegan Park Jewish Center joins Arthur Alexander in mourning the passing of his beloved mother, Florence.       
 AMORY--Harcourt, 82. Of Vero Beach, FL. Formerly of New York City and Pound Ridge, NY, March 1, 2006. Survived by his devoted wife, Jean Moore Amory, and their children Dita Amory Nickson, Jean Trudeau Fenn, Garry Trudeau, Michelle Trudeau and six grandchildren. Previously married to Dita N
 BARKIN--Herbert L. Age 83 of Fairfield, CT previously of Harrison, NY, passed away peacefully in Fairfield on Tuesday, March 7. Dearest husband of Bunny Wiesenthal Barkin. Loving father of Joel L. and the late Paula Lee of Coral Springs, FL and Samuel and Madeleine of Rye Brook, NY. Devoted
 BECKMANN--Selig. The officers, board, and members of Temple Emanu-El of Lynbrook record with great sorrow the death of our cherished past president. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Andrew Trevers, Pres Rabbi Scott Corngold       
 IRVANI--Rahim Mottaghi, 86. Died at home in London on March 3, 2006. He will be missed by his wife Zinat; his daughters and sons-in-law Nezhat and Hassan Khosrowshahi, and Maryam and Vahid Alaghband; his son and daughter-in-law Bahman and Roya Irvani; sons Ali, Abbass, Abdulrahim, Behnam, F
 MURRIE--Richard Wallace. Of New York City, died peacefully at age 88 on March 6 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 30 years Rita T. Murrie, his stepson Steven Finley and stepdaughter Elizabeth Vary, four beloved stepgrandchildren, and his nephew William M. Clevenger and nie
 ORZACK--Sidney W., 91. Died March 8, at his home at the Sarasota Bay Club, Sarasota, FL. Loving husband of the late Millie Lafer Orzack. Beloved father of Sandra Berman. Loving brother of Edward. Devoted grandfather of Meredith Berman Lovejoy. Much loved uncle of Caroline, Virginia, and Eli
 PARKS - Gordon was so much to so many people, he became an Icon of his time. He was a beloved figure of multiple talents, but at ICP we knew him principally as a photographer. Cornell Capa included him with seven other photographers in his book ''The Concerned Photographer II'' published in
 SIMONS--Gertrude (Moriarity), 89. Of Tamarac, FL (formerly of Great Neck, NY) died Monday, March 6, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Simons of Superior Printing Ink Company. Devoted mother of Jeffrey Simons and his wife Denise of Boca Raton, FL; Ellen Simons of Brookline, MA; Joanne Si
 VILLAMENA--Dr. Anthony. Died on March 6, 2006 after a brief battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Cean Tillett Villamena, adored father of Vincenzo and Nicola, and dear brother of Dr. Diodato Villamena and wife, Karen. A dedicated psychiatrist, he was a fellow of the American Psychiatric A
 WHITE--William J., 81. Of Vero Beach, FL. and East Hampton. Survived by wife Betty and her daughter Caryn and loving children of his late wife Shirley: Ann, David, Marie, Amy and Mark. His beloved sister Eileen Roeder. Bill's illustrious career in advertisng spanned many years with the New 
 Richard Kuklinski, whose lust for publicity nearly matched the blood lust he displayed in claiming to have killed more than 100 people as a Mafia hit man, died on Sunday in the prison wing of St. Francis Hospital in Trenton. He was 70. In announcing his death to The Associated Press
 Robert J. Dryfoos, who played a critical role in the fight to save Radio City Music Hall from demolition and then represented the Upper East Side on the City Council for 11 years, died on March 2 at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 63. The cause was
 Rodney Strong, who left behind a career as a professional dancer to pioneer the mass production of fine wines in Sonoma County, died Sunday in Healdsburg, Calif. He was 78. The cause was complications of a stroke, said Michele Prinz, a spokeswoman for Rodney Strong Vineyards in Heal
 Tsegaye Gabre-Medhin, an acclaimed Ethiopian playwright who was also the country's poet laureate, died on Feb. 25 in Manhattan, where he had lived since 1998. He was 69. His death was announced by his family. Born in the small mountain town of Boda, near Ambo, Mr. Tsegaye be
 Garrett Scott, an independent filmmaker, died in Coronado, Calif., on March 2, two days before his documentary ''Occupation: Dreamland'' received an Independent Spirit Award at a ceremony in Santa Monica. He was 37. Mr. Scott died while swimming in a municipal pool where he had play
 John T. Kramer, a legal scholar and champion of civil rights who helped shape the nation's poverty laws , died on Wednesday at his home in New Orleans. He was 68. The cause was complications of diabetes, his wife, Sandra, said. Mr. Kramer began his career in public policy in
 Joseph Howard Gardner, a Manhattan real estate developer who had a knack for identifying emerging neighborhoods and transforming them into residential magnets by converting rundown buildings, died on March 1 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 78. The cause was melan
 BOLOCAN -- Dr. Hyam. Passed away March 6, 2006 in Columbus, OH. He is survived by his wife Alice, son David, daughter - in - law Sarah, grandson Charles Bernard and granddaughter Georgia Mei. A private family service was held. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Kaifeng Synagog
 GEWIRTZ--Marvin H., Ph.D., 78. Extraordinary public servant, research scientist, peace activist, he guided N.Y.C. Department of Health research interns, influenced child health and urban education programs and urged public outcries to end nuclear weapons proliferation. Active for his commun
 GHRISKEY--H. Williamson. Of Greenwich, CT, passed peacefully at home on March 6, 2006. Loving husband of the late Flora Roberts Ghriskey. Treasured Father of Susie, Bill, Marcia, Timothy and Gigi. Cherished Grandfather of sixteen and Great-Grandfather of four. A good friend to so many. Born
 HOFFMAN--Israel, DDS. Died on March 4, two days shy of his 94th birthday, in Boston. Survived by Sylvia (nee Goldberg), his wife of 65 years, daughters Amy Feldman (Richard) and Ellen Hoffman (Ken Loveday), grandchildren Eric Feldman (Michelle) and Rebecca Micucci (Michael), and great grand
 KAYE--Bernard C. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Bernard C. Kaye. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey J. Siegel, President Solomon S. Greenspan, Secy       
 KLEIN--Joseph L., a Naples, Florida resident for the past 36 years, born July 20, 1910, in Manhattan, New York City, passed from his earthly stewardship to eternal life on Wednesday, March 8, 2006, by the Will of God, in Naples. His beloved wife, Vera, predeceased him when she was called to
 MAYBRUCK -- Charles N., Esq. Born in NYC. Received his Juris Doctor from NYU Law. Loving and devoted husband of 66 years to Bunny. Spectacular father to Richard and Jenny. Beloved grandfather of Martin, Nadine and Michael-Anne. Proud greatgrandfather of Sarah. He was wonderful and his spiri
 MILLMAN--Neil H. The partners and staff of Hecht and Company, P.C. are deeply saddened by the passing of Neil H. Millman, Esq. Neil was associated with our firm for over 30 years and played an integral part of its success. He was not only a brilliant tax advisor but also a person who cared 
 PARKS -- Gordon was so much to so many people, he became an Icon of his time. He was a beloved figure of multiple talents, but at ICP we knew him principally as a photographer. Cornell Capa included him with seven other photographers in his book ''The Concerned Photographer II'' published i
 PORTNOY--Samuel, 84, died March 8 in Portland, Oregon, from cancer. Beloved husband of Theo, loving father to Lois and Eli, son-in-law Dean Richards and granddaughter Anna, brother to Martin and the late Minna Ring. Orignally from Queens, he graduated from Union College and NYU School of De
 SHAW--William. Died March 9, 2006 at the age of 81. Beloved husband of Jacqueline who passed away in 2004. He is survived by his loving daughters Linda & Deborah and his brother Jerome Shaw, as well as sons-in-law Bruce and Neil and seven grandchildren. Founder, President and Chairman of th
 TSANG--Chih. Age 98, died on March 6, 2006 in New York. Born in Imperial China, his life successfully bridged the many changes that China underwent in the 20th century and demonstrated the opportunities available in post WWII America. The father of three, grandfather of seven, and great-gra
 WHITE--William J., 81, a resident of Vero Beach, FL and East Hampton, NY, (formerly of Woodbury, NY), lost his courageous battle against cancer on March 6, 2006. Survived by his wife Betty and her daughter, Caryn (Sylvain), loving children by his late wife, Shirley: Ann (Tom), David (Harrie
 WOLF--Gerald L., M.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Gerald L. Wolf, M.D., professor emeritus and former vice chairman of anesthesiology. Dr. Wolf was well known for his research, most recently concerning the prevention of surgical fires. He also was a muc
 MINKOWITZ--Stanley, MD. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center is saddened by the death of Dr. Stanley Minkowitz. Dr. Minkowitz had been associated with Maimonides Medical Center for many years. He was Director of Pathology from 1981 through 1994. He was instrumental in upgrading th
 John Profumo, whose highflying political career in Britain ended in a cold war scandal of sex and espionage that gave way to a lifetime of atonement, died about midnight on Thursday. He was 91. He had suffered a stroke two days earlier, according to Chelsea and Westminster Hospital 
 ALTER--Robert H., 77. On March 10, 2006. Founder, Past President and CEO of Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau, founder and past President of Temple Beth Shalom, Member of the Broadcasting and Cable Hall of Fame since 2003. He was a resident of Hastings - on - Hudson and Martha's Vineyard. 
 MILLMAN--Neil H. The partners and staff of Hecht and Company, P.C. are deeply saddened by the passing of Neil H. Millman, Esq. Neil was associated with our firm for over 30 years and played an integral part in its success. He was not only a brilliant tax advisor but also a person who cared 
 UDEL--Dr. Melvin, 81. Of Saratoga Springs, New York, died March 6, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Bracey Udel, he is missed by daughter Lisa, son-in-law Timothy Kramer, and many other family members and friends. Melvin was born in Baltimore, MD. on 28 August 1924 to Fanny and So
 WRAY--Joe D. MD, MPH. The faculty, students, alumni, and staff of the Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University mourn the passing of Professor Emeritus, Joe D. Wray, one of the world's leading experts on child health. He was committed to medical and public health education and 
 YANOFF--Allen. Taken away at the peak of his life, Allen served as the doctor's doctor, legendary mentor and role model for hundreds of physicians, the man we all turned to for his wise counsel and balanced judgement that he shared with us so generously. Sincerest condolences to Laura, Davi
 Willy Frank, a tireless promoter of New York wines who transformed Dr. Konstantin Frank Vinifera Wine Cellars into one of the Finger Lakes' best known and most respected wine producers, died on Tuesday in Naples, Fla., where he had gone on a business trip. He was 80 . The cause was 
 ABBERLEY--John J. Of New Canaan, born December 16, 1916, died March 8, 2006. Survived by his wife, Joni; children, Lester, Georgine and Frederick. Also survived by three stepchildren, Walter, Donald and Alexandra. A graduate of Williams College and University of Virginia Law School. A partn
 ALTER--Robert H., 77. On March 10, 2006. Founder, Past President and CEO of Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau, founder and past President of Temple Beth Shalom, Member of the Broadcasting and Cable Hall of Fame since 2003. He was a resident of Hastings - on - Hudson and Martha's Vineyard. 
 BERKOWITZ - Nathan. On Wednesday, March 1, 2006, 3 weeks short of his 96th birthday. Beloved husband of the late Doris Berkowitz. Father of Ina Woronoff and Robin Nelson. Father-in-law of Dr. Richard Woronoff. Grandfather of Jennifer Nelson.       
 BRASS--Lawrence M., MD. The Trustees, MAB and staff of The Goddess Fund mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague, Larry Brass. He had a passion for research and a deep commitment to understanding issues of women with stroke. He was a renowned clinician, gifted researcher and inspira
 DAVIES--John O., Jr., 88, of Ewing Twp. since 1965, died March 6th 2006 at home. Born in Manhattan NY, he was former editor of the CourierPost in Camden County, and the first New Jersey journalist to win the coveted Lucious W. Nieman Fellowship at Harvard University, in 195152. He worked 25
 FLYNN--Richard Francis, 67. Of New York City. Died on January 19, 2006, in Phoenix, Arizona. Known as ''Dick'' to his family and friends, he was a beloved son to Francis and Eleanore and is survived by his brother Brian and his daughter Kelly Jeanne. He grew up in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and 
 GEWIRTZ--Marvin H., Ph.D., 78. Extraordinary public servant, research scientist, peace activist, he guided N.Y.C. Department of Health research interns, influenced child health and urban education programs and urged public outcries to end nuclear weapons proliferation. Active for his commun
 GHRISKEY--H. Williamson. Of Greenwich, CT, passed peacefully at home on March 6, 2006. Loving husband of the late Flora Roberts Ghriskey. Treasured Father of Susie, Bill, Marcia, Timothy and Gigi. Cherished Grandfather of sixteen and Great-Grandfather of four. A good friend to so many. Born
 GIANNETTI--Anthony M. 81, of Palm Harbor, FL died March 7, 2006 at the Mease Countryside Hospital in Safety Harbor, FL. He was born in Newark, NJ, lived for a time in Caldwell, NJ, and moved to Florida from Toms River NJ in 2002. He was a truck driver for the New York Times, and was a membe
 GILMAN--Alvin, passed away March 9 in Delray Beach, FL at the age of 91. Formerly of Rockville Centre, LI. Beloved husband of Selma RobinsonSendroff and the late Hazel Gilman. He was a devoted father to Jeffrey Gilman and Susan Pomeranz. Adoring grandfather of three and great-grandfather of
 HUNTER--Captain H.D. Died at his home in Mt. Pleasant, SC on Friday morning, March 10th. Although retired from positions of high responsibility and authority as an Officer of various Shipowner Companies, he remained active as a Director of International Cargo Gear Bureau, Inc. He is survive
 JANOV--Theodora Z. Beloved wife and companion for 71 years to Saul, loving mother of Paul and his wife Caroline, devoted grandmother to Adam and Jessica. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Capital Hospice, 4715 North 15th Street, Arlington, VA 22205.       
 JARKOW--Sydney Peace. A loving, dedicated father who was generous to those in need, a champion of human rights who established the Jarkow Institute for Latin American Studies with the Anti-Defamation League, a business mogul in the children's wear industry, an avid hunter, died of natural c
 KRAAR--Louis. Died suddenly of a heart attack at his home on Manhattan's Upper West Side, on Friday, March 10, 2006, age 71. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Maureen Aung-Thwin, his children Jennifer and Adam, brothers Ronald and Martin, and two greatly-loved grandchildren, Kyra and 
 LOTTERS--Albert. Our beloved Abracha, age 95. A most wonderful and devoted husband of Joyce and the late Ninette. Loving parent to Larry, Barbara, Fred, Patti and David. Adoring grandfather of Carly, Talia, Rebecca, Eric, Zachary and Pamela. A spirited survivor who remained a joy to all who
 MAUER--Arnold Frederick. Died on March 9, at the age of 86, with his daughter Peri singing to him at his hospital bedside. The loving-spirited husband of the late Rosalyn, father of Richard and Peri, father-in-law of Barbara and grandfather of Jessica and Michael, he enthusiastically enjoye
 McKEGNEY -- F. Patrick, M.D. A leader in the field of psychosomatic medicine and consultation liaison psychiatry died on February 3, 2006. He was 73. Dr. McKegney was a beloved husband, parent, teacher and friend. He is survived by his wife of 19 years, Ellie and by five children from his f
 MILLMAN--Neil H. On March 9, 2006 at age 61. Devoted and cherished husband of Susan (nee Cooper). Adored father of Matthew. Dear son of the late Abraham and Rhea and brother of Barbara Rose and the late Elaine Kammerman. A graduate of Brown University, Columbia Law School, and New York Univ
 PERRIS--Donald L. Of Cleveland, OH, beloved husband of Barbara F. Perris (nee Fisher); dear father of Katherine P. Torgerson (Kenneth A.) of Cleveland Hts, OH, David P. Perris and Barbara A. Perris, both of NYC, NY; grandfather of Travis Kinsey and Leslie Kinsey; step-grandfather of Kirstin
 PORTNOY--Samuel, 84, died March 8 in Portland, Oregon, from cancer. Beloved husband of Theo, loving father to Lois and Eli, son-in-law Dean Richards and granddaughter Anna, brother to Martin and the late Minna Ring. Orignally from Queens, he graduated from Union College and NYU School of De
 SOLOMON - Martin. On March 8, 2006. Devoted father of Dane, Scott and Lisa, grandfather of Lindsey, Jared, Adam and Arielle. He joins his wife, Elaine, in eternal rest. An artist, a teacher, a friend who left his mark on this world through his life and his works.       
 STEVENS--Nathaniel H. The last of the great original Silverbergs died March 2. He's in Heaven with his beautiful Irene, brother Harold and sister Ethel all eating Milky Ways, playing the piano, and singing. $(6$)STEVENS--Nathaniel H. Papa Nat, accused of having lost your taste buds,
 TYSON--Cornelius John Jr. Son of Dr. Cornelies J. Tyson, Chief of Surgery at St. Vincent's Hospital, and Dorothy Anne Comfort, died peacefully March 9, 2006, at 87 years. He graduated from St. Ignatius Loyola and Great Neck High School. After the premature death of his father, he completed 
 UDEL--Dr. Melvin, 81. Of Saratoga Springs, New York, died March 6, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Bracey Udel, he is missed by daughter Lisa, son-in-law Timothy Kramer, and many other family members and friends. Melvin was born in Baltimore, MD. on 28 August 1924 to Fanny and So
 WAPLES--Thomas G., III. Of Teaneck, NJ, died suddenly on March 8, 2006, in Fort Washington, MD. Over the years, Mr. Waples was employed by Business Week Magazine, Travel Ad Manager for US News & World Report, and Senior Vice President at VNU Publications. For the past 12 years Tom has staye
 WHALEN--Thomas C., Amagansett, New York. Succumbed to cancer on Friday March 10. He is survived by his wife Emily, daughters Emily DeMello of Forest Hills and Annie Petrocelli of New York City and grandsons Thomas and Richard. He is also survived by a brother Edward of Hillsboro, Fl. and a 
 WOLHANDLER--Joe, 86, died in his sleep at home in New York City on Saturday, February 4, 2006. He was born in Greenwich Village, attended New York City public schools and graduated from the City College of New York. After successfully arguing a non-religious conscientious objection to milit
 YANOFF--Dr. Allen. Beloved husband of Laura. Dear father of David and Julie. Brother of Marilyn. Loved and highly respected by his colleagues and patients. Services at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 91st Street, Sunday, March 12, 10 AM. $(6$)YANOFF--Dr. Alle
 YEVISH--Irving A. Novelist, literary critic, educator. BA City College and PhD Columbia University. Died suddenly on March 2, 2006 at age 79 in Cape May, NJ. Adored son of the late Dora and Charles Yevish. Loving father of Andrew (Anna), dear brother of Ruth Rose (Victor) and Gloria Schulma
 ZUCKERMAN--Nat. The Stecher and Horowitz Foundation extends deepest sympathy to Marvin Zuckerman, esteemed Chairman Emeritus of the Board upon the loss of his beloved son. Heartfelt condolences to his family.       
 BARBASH--Jack. Husband, father and grandfather was loved and admired more than words can express. We, his family, who knew how lucky we were to have him 84 years will always miss him.       
 Slobodan Milosevic, the Communist leader whose embrace of Serbian nationalism set off almost a decade of Balkan warfare, was found dead early Saturday in his cell at the United Nations detention center in The Hague, where he had been since 2001. He was 64. Mr. Milosevic appeared to 
 Bernie Geoffrion, the Montreal Canadiens' Hall of Fame wing who popularized the slap shot, a weapon that changed the face of hockey and brought him the enduring nickname Boom Boom, died Saturday in Atlanta. He was 75. The cause was stomach cancer, said the Canadiens, who retired Geo
 Gilbert Y. Steiner, an author and authority on American welfare and family policies, and, for many years, a mainstay of the Brookings Institution, died March 1 at a hospice in Washington. He was 81 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. His death was announced on the institution's Web site. 
 BAIOCCO - Riziero. Passed away on March 9. He is survived by his wife Mary, his children Benjamin, Dr. Peter J. and Marylou Baiocco, Rosemary and Joseph Walsh, eight grandchildren and two great great-grandchildren. We love and miss you. May you rest in peace.       
 GOODMAN--Seymour. The officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of the Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Seymour Goodman, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Esther, and children, Rhonda, Stephen, Andrea and their families. Philip Shapiro, President    
 KRAAR--Louis. Died suddenly of a heart attack at his home on Manhattan's Upper West Side, on Friday, March 10, 2006, age 71. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Maureen Aung-Thwin, his children Jennifer and Adam, brothers Ronald and Martin, and two greatly-loved grandchildren, Kyra and 
 SUMITS -- William J. On March 10, 2006, in Fairfax, VA. He was 91. Son of the late Frank & Rosa (Bugyin) Sumits. William enjoyed an expansive career as a photographer that took him from the stockroom at Eastman Kodak to Chief Photographer for TWA. He later worked as a photojournalist, becom
 TYSON--Cornelius John Jr. Son of Dr. Cornelies J. Tyson, Chief of Surgery at St. Vincent's Hospital, and Dorothy Anne Comfort, died peacefully March 9, 2006, at 87 years. He graduated from St. Ignatius Loyola and Great Neck High School. After the premature death of his father, he completed 
 UDEL--Dr. Melvin, 81. Of Saratoga Springs, New York, died March 6, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Bracey Udel, he is missed by daughter Lisa, son-in-law Timothy Kramer, and many other family members and friends. Melvin was born in Baltimore, MD. on 28 August 1924 to Fanny and So
 WHALEN--Thomas C., Amagansett, New York. Succumbed to cancer on Friday March 10. He is survived by his wife Emily, daughters Emily DeMello of Forest Hills and Annie Petrocelli of New York City and grandsons Thomas and Richard. He is also survived by a brother Edward of Hillsboro, Fl. and a 
 YANOFF--Allen, a quintessential physician; he was the doctor's doctor. We went to him for advice about pedestrian problems because his judgement was sound and unerring. We went to him to discuss matters of extraodinary medical complexity, seeking and finding solutions that were not to be fo
 Dominic J. Baranello, an enduring power in Democratic Party affairs of Suffolk County and New York State since he played a big role in Hugh L. Carey's winning the governorship in 1974, died on Thursday in Smithtown, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Blue Point, N.Y. The death was announce
 BLUESTONE--Harvey, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of its professor emeritus of psychiatry and behavorial sciences. He was a devoted physician dedicated to providing high-quality care to the underprivileged, as well as a beloved mentor of sever
 BUSH--John Winston. CoFounder of the New York Institute of Cognitive Behavior Therapy, on March 12, 2006. Loving father of Elizabeth, Jonathan, Iain, Erica, Laura and the late Alexandria. Loving grandfather of Gabrielle. Son of the late Myrtle Stocking and Chilton Bush. Also survived by his
 DICKINSON--William, 77. Of Greenwich, CT. Devoted husband of Mary. Dedicated father to Anne, Katherine, Sheila and Caroline. Adored papa to eight grandchildren. Eldest brother of Charles, Ron and the late Jimmy Dickinson. Highlights of his career in the restaurant business include VP of Ope
 DOUGLAS--John J., 89. Died peacefully March 9, 2006, after briefly suffering complications from a fall. His children were with him at the time of his death. Born in Chicago, John earned a degree in accounting from the University of Wisconsin in 1939, while also participating in their sports
 ENGLER--David. Age 83, of Pittsburgh, PA, formerly of New York, NY & Wilmington, DE, died Friday, March 10, 2006. Born December 31, 1922 in New York, NY, he was the son of the late Edward and Antoinette Fiedler Engler. Mr. Engler had been a publisher, writer & editor with McGraw-Hill and wa
 FRIEDMAN--Roy. A true nobleman has passed from our midst. We were blessed to have known him. Condolences to Louise, Rebecca, Kevin, Sally and family. Love never dies. Joanna and Tom       
 HANSCOM--Leslie, 82. On March 10, 2006. After graduating from Yale he came to New York to begin a journalism career, first as a reporter for the Brooklyn Eagle, then book editor of the World Telegram & Sun, later joining the Saturday Evening Post and then Newsweek. He interrupted his career
 HOOK--Edward. Passed away at age 60 in Mt. View, CA. He was Sr. R/D Scientist/ Engineer at NASA Ames Research Center, supporting super computer systems. Survived by wife Margaret of New York City, daughters Karen and Elizabeth, and sister Patricia.       
 KRAAR--Louis. The leadership and staff of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel are saddened by the passing of Louis Kraar. He was the brother of our dear friend and valued colleague Martin Kraar, Executive Vice President of the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute o
 LEARY--Kevin J., a business consultant, Knight of Malta and committed family man and father, died peacefully on March 11 of brain cancer. He was 49 years old. ''Kevin lived a life of faith and goodness,'' said his wife, Monica. ''He gave so much and led by his quiet example.'' Mr. Leary was
 MAXWELL--Herbert. Accomplished businessman and entrepreneur, died Sunday evening of leukemia. He was 84. Following his honorable service in the Air Force during WWII, Mr. Maxwell worked successfully in the radio business and subsequently in the garment industry before establishing himself a
 McCAHAN--Dr. Jermyn F., 92, who died on March 8, 2006, was a leader in the fields of occupational and preventive medicine. An avid outdoor sportsman, gardener and music lover, his wonderful sense of humor was appreciated by all who knew him. He is survived by his beloved wife, Virginia; fou
 MEYER--Brett J. Age 60, died on March 12, 2006, after a courageous fight against Lymphoma. Brett was an ethical and devoted attorney who served as a partner at the law firm of Pryor, Cashman, Sherman and Flynn. Brett is survived by his loving wife of 34 years Patricia, his two children Damo
 MYERSON--Howard L. Of New York City, passed away peacefully at home after a lingering illness on March 12, 2006 while under the care of his compassionate nursing aides. Born December 18, 1929 in Chicago, Mr. Myerson was an internationally known and respected marine insurace average adjuster
 PEARSON--Andrall E. The Faculty, Staff and Students of NYU Medical Center mourn the sudden passing of our deeply valued trustee, Andrall E. Pearson. Elected to the Board in 1988, Mr. Pearson lent his acumen, experience and exemplary integrity to a wide spectrum of Medical Center issues, inc
 SIND--Robert L. Died on March 12, 2006. Beloved father of Billy and Amy. Ecstatic grandfather of Lucy, Toby, Lily and Ben. Loving brother of Nancy and devoted uncle of Douglas, Stacy and Diana. He was a turnaround specialist and Founder of Recovery Management Corporation. He was also a musi
 STRICKLER--Arthur. It is with great sadness that the Actors' Temple mourns the sudden passing of long time active member Arthur Strickler. His energy and dedication will be deeply missed. Services will be held Tuesday, March 14, at 1 PM, Plaza Memorial, 630 Amsterdam Avenue. Board of Truste
 THURNAUER--William. 92, of Fort Lee, formerly Teaneck, on March 12, 2006. Beloved husband of Lilo Goldenberg Thurnauer and of the late Maria Thurnauer. Devoted father of Andrew and Maureen of Reading, MA, Joan and Craig of Seattle, WA. Adored grandfather of Jesse, Rebecca, Caitlin and Micha
 TYSON--Cornelius John Jr. Son of Dr. Cornelies J. Tyson, Chief of Surgery at St. Vincent's Hospital, and Dorothy Anne Comfort, died peacefully March 9, 2006, at 87 years. He graduated from St. Ignatius Loyola and Great Neck High School. After the premature death of his father, he completed 
 YANOFF--Dr. Allen. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Dr. Allen Yanoff, husband of Laura, father of David and Julie. To them and the entire family our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier $(6$)YANOFF--Allen. We are saddened by the loss of our favorite Doctor and
 Andrall Edwin Pearson, a former president of PepsiCo who as an adviser after leaving the company helped engineer the spinoff of Pepsi's fast-food businesses -- KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut -- died on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, a
 John M. Falotico, the detective who arrested David R. Berkowitz, the notorious ''Son of Sam'' killer, died on Saturday at his home in North Brunswick, N.J. He was 82. The cause was colon cancer, said his niece, Jennifer Falotico Taylor. Mr. Falotico's date with destiny came 
 Lennart Meri, the first president of Estonia in the post-Soviet era and an internationally recognized filmmaker, travel writer and translator, died yesterday in the capital, Tallinn. He was 76. The death was announced by the office of Estonia's current president, Arnold Ruutel, whos
 BLUESTONE--Harvey, M.D. On behalf of the members of the New York State Psychiatric Association we mourn the death of Harvey Bluestone, M.D. on March 11, 2006. Past President of the New York State Psychiatric Association, past Speaker of the Assembly of the American Psychiatric Association a
 BOLOCAN--Dr. Hyam. The Department of Psychiatry of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Medical College of Cornell University regrets the passing of our esteemed and beloved faculty member, Dr. Hyam Bolocan, a much-loved teacher, an influential mentor, and a loyal sweet friend. He added 
 BURCHENAL--Joseph. The staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the death of Joseph Burchenal. Dr. Burchenal served at MSKCC for more than 35 years, including as Director of Clinical Investigation. Recognized and honored internationally with awards including The Lasker Award an
 COOK--Jean, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is profoundly saddened by the passing of its former associate dean of students and associate professor of medicine emeritus. He joined the Einstein faculty in 1958, and impressed colleagues as a dedicated physician w
 KIRWAN--Richard F., 74. Died March 6, in St. Thomas, USVI, of cancer. Survived by Helen, his wife of 35 years; son Richard; daughters Sydney Kirwan and Alicia Carusona; brother Roger; sisters Carol Aikenhead and Clare Briody; six grandchildren; many loving relatives and friends. A graduate 
 MCGUCKIN--Robert H. III. Died on Sunday, March 12, 2006 at age 63 at his home in Alexandria, VA. after a valiant nine month battle with neuroendocrine cancer. Beloved husband of Barbara J. Katz. Devoted father of son Robert Lawrence and his wife Dana Elizabeth and daughter Catherine Eli zab
 MEANEY--John J. Passed away on March 14, 2006. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Meaney, and his sisters, Mary Meaney and Margaret Kane. He was predeceased by his daughter, Lauren. Private interment Westhampton Beach. Contributions may be made to The Lauren Meaney Scholarship Fund at The 
 MEYER--Brett J. Age 60, died on March 12, 2006, after a courageous fight against Lymphoma. Brett was an ethical and devoted attorney who served as a partner at the law firm of Pryor, Cashman, Sherman and Flynn. Brett is survived by his loving wife of 34 years Patricia, his two children Damo
 SARACH--Alfred. Born December 25, 1924 died March 11, 2006, father and teacher of American History at Central Commercial High School, Norman Thomas High School and Touro College. Survived by his sons Omar and Jason. He rests peacefully now.       
 SIND--Robert. The Board & Staff of Northside Center mourn the passing of Robert Sind. Bob was a Board Member/Treasurer, advisor, committed supporter and good friend. He used his special skills to help Northside continue to make a difference in the lives of children. We extend our condolence
 SNOYER--Robert Stanley. Age 81 and a resident of Flower Mound, TX. Born on January 26, 1925 in Bronx, New York to Arthur and Rose Snoyer. Passed away on Saturday, March 11, 2006 in Dallas, TX. Patriarch who loved people and long conversations with family, friends and neighbors. Lover of boo
 WOODBURY--George Francis. Beloved father of George, Gail and Gary (Joan). Beloved grandfather of Eric, Christopher and Valerie. Beloved brother of Carl (Joan) and Britta (Rev. Harold Kuehne). George passed on March 13, 2006. Viewing services will be held at Andrew Torregrossa Funeral Home, 
 SCHWARTZ--James. A founding member of Columbia University's Center for Neurobiology and Behavior, Jimmy was a pioneer and leader in the study of learning and memory and an editor of the textbook that defined the field of neuroscience. A scholar of unusual depth and breadth, a discerning pat
 THURNAUER--William. The Board of Directors and staff of the JCC on the Palisades are greatly saddened by the passing of William Thurnauer, a JCC trustee whose lifetime dedication to music led him and his late wife, Maria, to endow the JCC Music School that bears their name. A kind and gener
 Bill Cardoso, a writer and an editor who might have been lost in the haze of the hip, offbeat, drug-tinged world of 70's journalism had he not come up with the perfect word to describe Hunter S. Thompson's roller-coaster prose -- ''gonzo'' -- died on Feb. 26 at his home in Kelseyville, Cali
 Dr. Joseph H. Burchenal, a New York oncologist and the winner of a prestigious Lasker Medical Research Award who did pioneering work with drug treatments for leukemia and other kinds of cancer, died on March 8 in an assisted-living center in Hanover, N.H. He was 93. The cause was he
 BARNARD--Charles W., III(Chick) Retired Senior International Insurance Executive for American Foreign Insurance Association and Cigna, died March 11, 2006 at the age of 80. A native of Newburgh, he graduated from Storm King School and then served in the U.S. Army Air Corps during W.W. II. C
 FERNBACH--Max. Died March 14, 2006, in New York, N.Y. Beloved uncle, brother, friend, mentor and guardian of us all. Survived by nephews Edward Fernbach (Karen) of Great Neck, N.Y., Lewis Fernbach (Temma) of Springfield, N.J., Kenneth Graiser (Grace) of Marietta, Ga., Alice Knapp of Orlando
 HOUDE--Raymond W., MD. The Department of Pharmacology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague who passed away on March 8, 2006. Ray was a graduate of the NYU Medical School. In 1948 he began his life-long association with the Memorial Sloan - K
 KATZ--Edward A. Of Basking Ridge, NJ and Palm Beach, FL on March 13, 2006 in Palm Beach, FL. Loving husband of Betty Katz. Edward is also survived by his children: Mimi Levine of LaJolla, CA; Lawrence Katz of Caen, France; and Neva Watson of Morristown, NJ. He is also survived by his sister
 MEYER--Brett J. Everyone at Pryor Cashman Sherman & Flynn LLP is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our partner, Brett J. Meyer. The dignity and courage Brett displayed while fighting lymphoma -never complaining, always optimistic and endlessly upbeat were an inspiration to us all. 
 PEARSON--Andrall E. The family of Andy Pearson extends our heartfelt thanks and appreciation for the tremendous outpouring of sympathy we have received following our sad loss. Andy was well-loved by his family and friends, and we will miss him dearly. We have planned a Memorial Service to b
 RUBE--Ned J., 76, March 14, 2006, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Somers and New Rochelle, NY. Husband of the late Diane. Beloved father of Martin, Neil and Daniel and proud grandfather of Diana, Allison, Theodore, Harry, Matt, Charlie and Katie. Dearest brother of Harriet. His memory will l
 SHAYS -- Henry ''Charlie''. Loved by his wife Rona, five children, seven grandchildren, and sister, Charlie Shays died March 13, 2006 in Sarasota, FL. A son of immigrants and CCNY and Yale Law School graduate, Charlie will be remembered as a man who loved his family, friends, and his dog, M
 Robert C. Baker, an agricultural scientist who looked at chickens and envisioned chicken nuggets, not to mention chicken hotdogs, helping transform what is now a $29 billion poultry industry, died on Monday at his home in North Lansing, N.Y. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, 
 ALLOY - Herb. In sym pathy--The United Cerebral Palsy Association of Nassau County, Inc. deeply regrets the loss of a devoted Board member and tireless supporter of our agency, Herb Alloy. Mr. Alloy became actively involved with UCPN in 1959, joining the Board of Directors in 1977. The foll
 BARNARD--Charles W., III(Chick) Retired Senior International Insurance Executive for American Foreign Insurance Association and Cigna, died March 11, 2006 at the age of 80. A native of Newburgh, he graduated from Storm King School and then served in the U.S. Army Air Corps during W.W. II. C
 EXTER--John, 95. February 28, 2006. Adoring husband of Marion. Loving father of John, George, Janet and Nancy. Distinguished economist and central banker. Former member, Council of Foreign Relations, Mount Pelerin Society, Pilgrims of the United States. All who knew him will miss his joy, o
 IMPERATO--Louis G., 95. Formerly of Tenafly, NJ, died March 13, 2006 in Palmetto, FL. Born in Brooklyn, NY, Lou was a member of the New York State Bar for over 70 years and practiced law until shortly before his death. He is survived by loving son George, grandchildren Robert, Richard, Jack
 McMANUS--Denis J. Devoted and loving husband of his best friend Jeanne (nee Killeen). Proud father of Denis, Patrick, and Thomas. Loving brother of James, Maureen Spillane and the late Eugene Jr. and John (Jack). Dear son of the late Eugene and Helen (nee Kearney). Loving uncle of Denise, M
 PEARSON--Andrall E. The family of Andy Pearson extends our heartfelt thanks and appreciation for the tremendous outpouring of sympathy we have received following our sad loss. Andy was well-loved by his family and friends, and we will miss him dearly. We have planned a Memorial Service to b
 SCHWARTZ--James H. Columbia University Medical Center lost one of its leaders in neurobiology with the passing of James H. Schwartz, M.D., Ph.D. Dr. Schwartz was Professor of Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, Psychiatry, and Neurology (in the Center for Neurobiology and Behavior) at the Col
 SHAYS--Henry. In honor of Charlie, lawyer & apologist, teacher & advisor, pundit & wit, storyteller & movie lover, licensed (NY & NJ) crystal ball gazer. To Rona and his entire family, my heartfelt condolences. Patricia Murphy       
 Peter Halasz, a Hungarian-born avant-garde playwright, actor and director, who founded the Squat/Love Theater collective, an Off Off Broadway ensemble of the 1980's, died last Thursday at the home of a daughter in Brooklyn. He was 62 and lived in Budapest and Staten Island. The deat
 René Lasserre, one of the last of a group of renowned Parisian restaurateurs who came to prominence in the years after World War II but made their fame with the elegant cuisine of years past, died Wednesday at his home in Morsang-sur-Seine, south of Paris. He was 93. His death was 
 John Wilde, an American surrealist associated with the Magic Realist school of painting, whose fantastic, darkly humorous images brought him fame far beyond his native Wisconsin, died on March 9 at his home in Cooksville. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said his dealer, Tory Follia
 ABRAMS--Alan Seth. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Alan Seth Abrams. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres.       
 BLOCK--Leroy Benatar, 88. A Madison Avenue legend in his time while at Grey Advertising, later a great financial adviser, died peacefully at home on March 17. Roy was a Captain in psychological warfare in World War II. At Dartmouth College (class of '38) he played in the Barbary Coast Orche
 JOSTEN--Thomas Hadley. 93, of NYC, died January 24, 2006 in Wickenburg, AZ. Retired advertising executive, investor, sailor, navigator, expert shot, raconteur, art collector, and connoisseur of fine food and drink. Only son of the late A.M. Josten and grandson of Otto H. Josten, founder of 
 McMANUS--Denis J. Devoted and loving husband of his best friend Jeanne (nee Killeen). Proud father of Denis, Patrick, and Thomas. Loving brother of James, Maureen Spillane and the late Eugene Jr. and John (Jack). Dear son of the late Eugene and Helen (nee Kearney). Loving uncle of Denise, M
 POMPOSELLO--Patrick J., 67. Of Sciota, PA died March 16, 2006. Husband of Marilyn (Mills) Pomposello. Prior to his retirement in December 1994, Mr. Pomposello served as Manhattan Borough Commissioner for the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. Survived by sons: Patrick, Michae
 LEWIS--Morton V. 7/27/23--3/18/86. He has outsoared the shadow of our night.       
 Ray Meyer, a Hall of Fame basketball coach at DePaul University who began his career by tutoring an awkward George Mikan, modern basketball's first superstar, and went on to win 724 games over 42 seasons, died yesterday at an assisted-living facility outside Chicago, said Scott Reed, the un
 G. William Miller, a businessman and investment banker who was chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and treasury secretary under President Jimmy Carter, died Friday night at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a relatively rare hardening 
 John Reynolds Gardiner, an avowed nonreader throughout his childhood who became a best-selling children's book author, died on March 4 in Anaheim, Calif. He was 61 and lived in Huntington Beach, Calif. The cause was longtime complications of necrotizing pancreatitis, his wife, Glori
 Oleg Cassini, a son of impoverished Italian and Russian nobility who achieved fame and wealth as a fabulously successful couturier based in New York, designing clothes for some of the world's most glamorous women as well as middle-class shoppers, died on Friday on Long Island, where he had 
 ALBUCKER--Sam. Age 86, of Cedarhurst, NY. Beloved husband of Lillian, treasured father, grandfather, greatgrandfather and brother, passed away March 14, surrounded by his family's love.       
 BARASH--Mitchell. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member, Mitchell Barash. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President $(6$)BARASH--Mitchell. Goodbye, dear friend. Leah & Harry       
 BLOCK--Leroy Benatar, 88. A Madison Avenue legend in his time while at Grey Advertising, later a great financial adviser, died peacefully at home on March 17. Roy was a Captain in psychological warfare in World War II. At Dartmouth College (class of '38) he played in the Barbary Coast Orche
 BLUESTONE -- Dr. Harvey. The Board of Trustees of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, as well as its medical, nursing, administrative, and Department of Psychiatry staff mourn the passing of Dr. Harvey Bluestone. Dr. Bluestone served, with distinction, as Chairman of Bronx-Lebanon's Department o
 GODWIN--Homer Cotton. The world's best father, husband and friend passed away March 3, 2006 while attending his 50th high school reunion in Marco Island, FL. He is survived by his wife of 37 years, Maureen Doran Godwin of Los Altos, CA., his daughter, Carrie May ''Charly'' Godwin of San Fra
 HOLMES--Frank E. Jr. Former Executive Vice President of Encyclopaedia Britannica, died December 20 in Vero Beach, FL. A Wharton School of Business graduate, he spent nearly 40 years with Britannica, where he pioneered the development of leads through third-party mail inserts. Known as ''Mr.
 KETCHAM--James B., 82, Died Thursday, March 16 at home in Jamestown, RI. He was the devoted husband of Ira D. (Davisson) Ketcham for 52 years. He was born in New York City in 1924. He was the son of Jean (Long) & William Tredwell Ketcham. He was a direct descendant of Commodore Cornelius Va
 LIPSETT--Dr. Samuel. Of Palm Beach, FL and Brevard, NC died peacefully on March 7, 2006. He was 95 and a respected physician. He was a graduate of George Washington University and its medical school. Dr. Lipsett was a US Army Major and served with troops liberating concentration camps durin
 MALLOUK--George E., 93, a long time resident and contributor to the communities of Garden City and East Hampton, died at home in Garden City, NY on March 15, 2006. He was born in Brooklyn in 1912, and was an alumnus of Blair Academy, Roanoke College, and the Paris Institute of Political Stu
 MEANY--John. The head mistress, trustees, faculty and staff, students, parents and alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart, NYC, deeply mourn the passing of an exceptional friend. The Sacred Heart community will cherish the memory of John's loving spirit and that of his daughter Lauren. We k
 MOORE -- Joseph Adrian Clairmont, 76, passed away peacefully on March 15th. He leaves behind the legacy of a loving family; Mary Somers Moore, his sister Patricia Ryan, his children Christopher Somers Moore, Frederick Clairmont Moore II, Mary-Elizabeth Ward Moore, Anne Clairmont Moore, and 
 SCHWARTZ - Melvin. 87 years young. Beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Toby and Robert Berkowitz, and David Schwartz. Cherished grandfather of Steven and Michelle Berkowitz, and Aaron and Sarah Wodin-Schwartz. Dear brother of Alice Weber. Passionate tennis player. The best joke and
 SHAYS -- Henry ''Charlie''. Loved by his wife Rona, five children, seven grandchildren, and sister, Charlie Shays died March 13, 2006 in Sarasota, FL. A son of immigrants and CCNY and Yale Law School graduate, Charlie will be remembered as a man who loved his family, friends, clients, and h
 UNGERS--Simon, 1957-2006. Architect and artist, passed away on Monday, March 6, in Cologne, Germany after a long illness. He was probably best known for the critically acclaimed ''T-House'' in Upstate New York. He was internationally known and respected not only as an architect, but also as
 WIJTVLIET--Joop, of Vinkeveen, the Netherlands, died unexpected at 64 of a massive heart attack on March 13, 2006, while traveling in the US. He is survived by his wife Susanne, their two children Tina and Peter, brothers Frank, Hans and Paul, sisters Beatrijs and Ine Wijtvliet. We are deep
 WINSTON--Richard Alan Passed away on March 15, due to complications following surgery. He was 78. He is survived by his wife and best friend of 18 years, Susan Harnick Winston; daughters Lisa Winston Wilentz and Stephanie Winston-Vann; granddaughter Dana Wilentz: sonsin-law Wayne Wilentz an
 HUDDLESTON -- Jackson Noyes, Jr. of Seattle, born in Huntington, WV in 1938, passed away of pancreatic cancer on March 11, 2006. He spent his life as a student, businessman, teacher and author culminating in the book ''Gaijin Kaisha, Running a Foreign Business in Japan''. He is survived by 
 LEWIS--Morton V. 7/27/23--3/18/86. He has outsoared the shadow of our night.       
 MASLANSKY--Michael. We remember you with love. ''For he who lives more lives that one, more deaths than one must die'' The Family       
 Andrew Sherratt, a British archaeologist whose explorations of animal husbandry and other civilizing practices shed light on European prehistory, died Feb. 24 near his home in Witney, Oxfordshire. He was 59. The cause was heart failure, said a spokeswoman for the University of Sheff
 Bill Beutel, who helped bring about a sea change in the nature of local television news as the dapper and unruffled anchor of ''Eyewitness News'' at WABC-TV in New York for more than 30 years, died Saturday at his home in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 75. The cause was complications from a
 Dr. Lawrence M. Brass, a Yale neurologist and leader in the field of stroke research who played a major role in linking a common decongestant to a possible increased risk of strokes, died on March 8 at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 49. The cause was lung cancer, his family sa
 Dr. E. Russell Alexander, an epidemiologist and public health official who helped curb deadly disease outbreaks and raised concerns about federal plans to thwart a potential swine flu epidemic in the 1970's, when a vaccine was linked to a neurological disorder, died on Feb. 26 at his home i
 G. William Miller, a businessman and investment banker who was chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and treasury secretary under President Jimmy Carter, died Friday night at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a relatively rare hardening 
 Luna B. Leopold, an ecologist and author whose studies of American rivers provided new insights into their depth, velocity and movement patterns that proved to be fundamental to all rivers, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 90. His death was announced by the Uni
 O. Milton Gossett, a New York advertising executive who played a large role in the globalization of the industry in the 1980's, died on March 1 in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in South Salem, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, his daughter, Lorraine said. Mr. Gossett was 
 CASSINI--Oleg. Born in Paris, France April 11, 1913. A man of many great talents, respected for his achievements and experiences in the world of fashion, an accomplished sportsman, raconteur, a man passioned by history and his love for animals, died in Long Island on March 17, 2006. He will
 HERSCHBERG--Nathan, 84, of Aventura, FL, and New York City. Died peacefully, surrounded by family on March 18. Beloved husband and best friend of Anna. Nathan is also survived by his loving daughter, Nancy and son-in-law Mitchell Muntner of Marlboro, NJ, and his cherished grandchildren Stev
 SCHWARTZ--Melvin. Friend and tennis partner for 60 years. A unique man, dedicated to his family, to whom we extend our condolences. Debby and Frank Morgenstern       
 SEIFER--Monroe, 89. Died March 17, 2006, at his winter home in Aruba. An inspiration to all for his generosity, positive spirit and determination, he was: developer/builder/operator of Holiday Inn Hotels and Motels (since 1950); Vice Chairman, Board of Trustees Lutheran Medical Center (sinc
 STROSS--R. Marshall. Retired director of news and information for the Lutheran Church in America, died on March 18, 2006, at the age of 88, at home in Manhasset, NY. Survived by his wife, Suzanne, three sons, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild. He was predeceased by his first wife 
 WINSTON--Richard Alan. The House of Harry Winston is saddened by the great loss of Richard Winston, former vice president and salesman extraordinaire. He will be remembered by all for his charming and gentle manner, the twinkle in his eyes, and his wonderful stories about Uncle Harry and th
 Donelson Hoopes, an authority on 19th- and 20th-century American paintings and a curator who helped restore the reputation of John Singer Sargent in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at a hospital in Bangor, Me. He was 73 and lived in Steuben, on the Maine coast. The cause was complicatio
 Joseph Bova, an actor whose roles ranged from Prince Dauntless the Drab in the original production of ''Once Upon a Mattress'' to Shakespeare's King Richard III, died on March 12 at the Actors' Fund retirement home in Englewood, N.J. He was 81. The cause was emphysema, said his wife
 BEUTEL--William C. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the death of our friend, Bill Beutel. His professionalism and thoughtful approach to the news helped define television journalism in New York City for over three decades. The Socie
 BLOCK--Leroy. One of the sweetest men to ever walk the face of the earth. Beloved friend and mentor from our first meeting in 1973, to being my dinner date on June 10, 1980, the night I met my future wife of 25 years, Hazel. Most intelligent and very different from all others. Most kind and
 GIUSTI--Dr. Gino Husband, father, grandfather, executive, leader and friend, passed away on March 18, 2006 from complications due to cancer. He was 78. Born in New Kensington, Pennsylva nia on May 31, 1927 to the late Peter and Rose Giusti, Dr. Giusti attended the University of Pittsburgh w
 GOSSETT--O. Milton. The Board of Directors and staff of The Eye-Bank for Sight Restoration are deeply saddened by the passing of O. Milton Gossett, our first ''Man of Vision'' honoree, long-time Board member and Honorary Director. As chairman of Compton Advertising and later Saatchi & Saatc
 HEAPS--Arnold. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member Arnold Heaps. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife Evelyn, and to all the members of his family. Stan Brettschneider, President $(6$)HEAPS--Ar
 ROSWICK - Bruce. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Bruce Roswick. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres.       
 SCHWARTZ--James H., M.D., Ph.D. The psychoanalytic community, no less than the neuroscientific one, owes a huge debt of gratitude to Dr. James H. Schwartz. In 1990, together with Dr. Arnold Pfeffer, he took the revolutionary step of forming an interdisciplinary seminar in which psychoanalys
 SCHWARTZ--Melvin. Friend and tennis partner for 60 years. A unique man, dedicated to his family, to whom we extend our condolences. Debby and Frank Morgenstern       
 SEIFER--Monroe. The Board of Trustees, President and Faculty of the New York College of Podiatric Medicine note with sadness the passing of Monroe Seifer, former Acting President, Chairman and Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Trustees, and member of the Advisory Board. We extend our deepes
 TEICH--Seymour. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Seymour Teich. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey J. Siegel, President Solomon S. Greenspan, Secy       
 WINSTON--Richard. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member, Richard Winston. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Susan, his children and other members of his family. Allen J. Ross, President       
 BUGANZA--Dr. Giancarlo. A loving husband, father and grandfather, and a dear friend who was an integral part of our lives. He will be remembered as a renaissance man; a highly professional, skilled, caring physician. Gian Carlo was a poet and an artist, a being of great intellect. Gaby, Lew
 Richard K. Root, a prominent American epidemiologist and medical educator, was reported killed on Sunday when a crocodile pulled him into a river while he was on a guided safari tour in Botswana, in southern Africa. He was 68 and lived in Seattle. Dr. Harvey M. Friedman, chief of in
 Charles Newman, an avant-garde novelist and critic who in 1964 turned a campus publication at Northwestern University into the prestigious literary magazine TriQuarterly and was its editor for more than a decade, died on March 15 in St. Louis. He was 67 and lived in St. Louis and Manhattan.
 James O. Freedman, a former president of Dartmouth College and the University of Iowa and a forceful voice against anti-Semitism and other forms of intolerance on college campuses, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 70. He died of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his son, 
 BEUTEL--Bill. The Board and Administration of Southampton Hospital and the Southampton Hospital Foundation mourn the loss of Bill Beutel, whose warmth, talent and friendship embraced our cause. A loyal friend, he shall be dearly missed. We offer our deepest sympathy to his wife, Adair, a mu
 BLANK--Irwin M. Temple Sinai of Bergen County notes with sorrow the passing of our first fulltime Rabbi, who built our congregation during his 17 years here. A beloved Rabbi, distinguished communal leader and noted psychotherapist. May his dear ones be comforted and his memory be for a bles
 BLOCK - Leroy. A man whose greatest creation was himself as a human being. No person who ever met Roy did not benefit from the experience. We love you, miss you, and will never forget you. Willa and Saul Waring       
 CASSINI--Oleg passed March 17, 2006 in Long Island. Born on April 11, 1913 in Paris, France to the Count and Countess Loiewski-Cassini. Oleg Cassini has received countless awards and accolades for his beautiful and romantic collections and for bringing American fashion to the world stage wi
 COLEY - Mortimer, 97. Peacefully at his home in Bronxville, on March 19, 2006. Loving husband of Esther Gussaroff Coley. Father of Dorothy Coley. Grandfather of Lara Antonucci, great grandfather of four. He will be sorely missed by all. Graveside service at Mount Hope Cemetery, Hastings, on
 COLZANI--Anselmo. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of the distinguished baritone Anselmo Colzani, who sang nearly 300 performances of 18 roles at the Met between 1960 and 1978. He excelled in the Italian repertory, and shares the Met record for most performance as Jack Rance i
 GALLAHOU--Murray. Loving father of Evan. Caring husband of Phyllis. A world traveler, a dapper dresser and a kind, soft spoken, good hearted man. A dedicated Pharmacist. Services March 22, 11:00 AM at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. $(6$)GALLAHOU--Murray. Park
 GLUCK--A. Stanley. Beloved husband of Anita, devoted father of Freema and Sheera, father-in-law of Harris. Loving grandfather or Arielle and Gabrielle. Stanley was a man of intelligence, integrity and honor. He and Anita were supporters of many organizations including The Jewish Theological
 KRONENBERG - Jack. Passed away peacefully on Friday, March 17, 2006 at age 87. Husband for 51 years to the late Evelyn; father of Scott Kronenberg (Cecilia) of Exeter, CA and Noah Kronenberg of North Bergan, NJ; grandfather of Hilary, Louis, Sara and Jeremy; brother of Betty Balsam (Barret)
 SCHWARTZ--Asher W. The Law Firm of O'Donnell, Schwartz, Glanstein & Lilly LLP notes with sorrow the death of its founding partner, Asher W. Schwartz. A graduate of Williams College and Harvard Law School where his personal papers were donated in 2001, he was a leading labor lawyer who found
 SEIFER--Monroe. Lutheran HealthCare mourns the passing of Monroe Seifer, former Vice-Chair of the Board of Trustees, great friend and supporter of Lutheran HealthCare. The Board of Trustees, physicians and staff express their heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. Kathryn S. Wylde, C
 TEICH--Seymour J., 94. Of West End, NJ and Lake Worth, FL. Beloved husband and best friend of Lynne, father of Barbara Vali and the late Liz Missette, stepfather to Jan and Mark Ferguson, Joanne Nachmani and Anthony Amato. Pop Pop to Megan and Kevin Missette, Haley, Tia and Kellen Ferguson,
 WIJTVLIET--Joop, of Vinkeveen, the Netherlands, died unexpected at 64 of a massive heart attack on March 13, 2006, while traveling in the US. He is survived by his wife Susanne, their two children Tina and Peter, brothers Frank, Hans and Paul, sisters Beatrijs and Ine Wijtvliet. We are deep
 WILLIAMSON--James Geiger. Of Pt. Pleasant Beach, New Jersey was a former resident of Short HIlls, New Jersey. He was born in Palm Beach, Florida. He graduated from McCauley High School in Chattanooga, Tennessee and the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia. Mr. Williamson was 
 Lumumba Carson, a hip-hop artist known as Professor X and a former member of the black nationalist rap collective X-Clan, died on Friday in Brooklyn. He was 49. His death was confirmed by Interfaith Medical Center. Though X-Clan never enjoyed the commercial success of its po
 Bernard Lacoste, who inherited the Lacoste fashion company from his father, the French tennis champion René Lacoste, and directed its international expansion into a billion-dollar company recognizable by its signature crocodile logo, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Paris. He was 74.      
 Gene Scott, who served tennis for a half-century as a world-ranked player, tournament director, player agent, author and, perhaps most significant, the founder, publisher, editor and iconoclastic columnist of Tennis Week magazine, died Monday in the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 68
 AKINS--Charles A. We deeply mourn the death of our best friend, Charlie, who died on Wednesday, March 22, 2006 after a valiant fight against pancreatic cancer. He was 59. We already miss him more than words can say. Viewing will be at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave. between 20th and 2
 CASSINI--Oleg passed March 17, 2006 in Long Island. Born on April 11, 1913 in Paris, France to the Count and Countess Loiewski-Cassini. Oleg Cassini has received countless awards and accolades for his beautiful and romantic collections and for bringing American fashion to the world stage wi
 FREEDMAN--James O. It is with deep sorrow that the Officers, Councilors, and members of the Trust of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourn the loss of James Freedman, distinguished legal scholar, university leader, and President of the Academy from 2000-2001. Throughout his academ
 GLUCK--A. Stanley. Beloved husband of Anita, devoted father of Freema and Sheera, father-in-law of Harris. Loving grandfather or Arielle and Gabrielle. Stanley was a man of intelligence, integrity and honor. He and Anita were supporters of many organizations including The Jewish Theological
 KUNHARDT--Philip B. Jr., 78. Died peacefully at his home in Chappaqua on March 21, 2006. The funeral of this beloved man will be held on Friday, March 24, 10:30 AM at St. Mark's Church in Mt. Kisco, NY. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the International Rescue Committee or Manha
 LOBENE--Nunzio. 87 years old of Pittsford, NY. Predeceased by his parents Angelo Lobene and Annetta (Ciofani) Lobene and his daughter Patty Lu. Survived by wife Patricia (Filippone) married 57 years; loving children, Mark and wife, Judith Modrak of New York City, Thomas of New York City and
 SCHWARTZ--Asher William. Principal in the law firm of O'Donnell and Schwartz of New York, died March 20, 2006 at his residence at The Osborn in Rye, NY. He was 94. Mr. Schwartz is survived by two sons, Alec M. Schwartz of Chicago, Fred E. Schwartz of Ithaca, NY, a daughter Susan Schwartz of
 SCHWARZ -- Donald K. Passed away peacefully on March 22, 2006. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Naomi and Ruthe. Devoted uncle of Harriet. Grandfather of three. Uncle, great-uncle and great-greatuncle of many. A man of wisdom and gentle humor. We will miss him. Funeral service 
 TEICH -- Seymour J. The Board of Governors and members of the Elberon Bathing Club mourn the passing of our longtime member and friend. Our deepest sympathies to his family. Robert Fagenson, President       
 VIDICH--Arthur J. The New School notes with sadness the death of sociologist Arthur J. Vidich on March 16. His more than 40 years of teaching at The New School for Social Research and his numerous books and articles, including the classic ''Small Town in Mass Society'', have influenced gene
 WOLF--Raymond J. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Raymond Wolf, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Sylvia, and family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club David Simon, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 Reinhold E. Rau, a taxidermist who spent three decades pursuing his dream of breeding an extinct zebra back into existence and nearly achieved it, died last month at his home in South Africa. He was in his mid-70's. His death was brought to the attention of The New York Times by D. 
 Anselmo Colzani, an operatic baritone whose dramatic sensibility helped make him a fixture at the Metropolitan Opera and other houses in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Milan. He was 87. He died after a long illness, Marina Boagno, president of the Franco 
 Dr. James H. Schwartz, a neurobiologist at Columbia whose research helped explain the biochemical basis of learning and memory, died on March 13 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was complications of leukemia, his family said. Dr. S
 GARIL--Michael J. Passed away on March 23 at the age of 39. For more than 31 of those years, Michael courageously--and without ever losing his sense of humor-faced many obstacles that would have easily beaten down a lesser person, and he overcame each and every one of them. He was dedicated
 GERTNER--Jack. The partners of Anchin, Block & Anchin LLP mourn the loss of their esteemed partner, Jack Gertner, of Forest Hills, Queens, on Wednesday, March 22nd, 2006. Prior to his retirement in 1990 Jack spent a lifetime career at Anchin, where he faithfully served clients and acted as 
 GOTTLIEB - Jerome. The President and the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the death of Jerome Gottlieb, father of our esteemed Trustee, David Gottlieb. Jerome Gottlieb was a loving father and devoted grandfather. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences go 
 HOUDE--Raymond W. The staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the death on March 8th of Raymond W. Houde. Dr. Houde served at MSKCC for more than 50 years and was recognized as an international authority on evaluation of drugs for pain relief. He pioneered the development and 
 KAPLAN - Herman, June 1918--March 2006. U.S. Army veteran, chemical engineer, businessman, executive service agency volunteer in Africa, Asia, Europe. Survived by his wife of 65 years and two daughters.       
 KUNHARDT--Philip B. Jr., 78. Died peacefully at his home in Chappaqua on March 21, 2006. The funeral of this beloved man will be held on Friday, March 24, 10:30 AM at St. Mark's Church in Mt. Kisco, NY. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the International Rescue Committee or Manha
 LINDERMAN--Morris. November 5, 1906-March 22, 2006. Predeceased by his beloved wife Mae, his life partner of 67 years. Loving, caring father to Essie and Marty, Gary and Janice. And his ''adopted children'' Rita and George Weissman. Adored ''poppa'' to his pride and joy Corey. Grandfather t
 SCOTT--Eugene L. The U.S. Tennis Association Eastern Section Board of Directors, volunteers, staff and member organizations are profoundly saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Gene Scott, a board member and past president of the association. Gene spread the good news ab
 MacMITCHELL - Leslie. World-class distant runner in the 1940s. MacMitchell was undefeated in intercollegiate cross-country and in 1942 equaled the existing world record in the indoor mile run. He was king of the 1000 yard run, winning all his races at that distance. He leaves his wife Jill,
 GERMAIN--Lawrence In loving memory of my dear husband, Lawrence, who passed away March 24, 1991. God Bless you Lawrence in your grave, God keep you in his care. And may He listen to my heart And hear my fervent prayer. May you have peace and rest at last From every care and woe, And may you
 Paul A. Flaherty, a computer engineer who had the original idea for AltaVista, the first Internet search engine to make an encyclopedic effort to index the World Wide Web, died March 16 at his home in Belmont, Calif., near San Francisco. He was 42. His wife, Natasha Flaherty, said t
 Philip B. Kunhardt Jr., a former managing editor of Life magazine who later became known as a writer and producer of historical documentaries for television, died on Tuesday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 78 and also lived in Hancock, Me. The cause was complications of pulmon
 Desmond T. Doss, who as an unarmed Army medic saved the lives of dozens of fellow soldiers under fire on Okinawa in World War II and became the first conscientious objector to receive the Medal of Honor, died Thursday at his home in Piedmont, Ala. He was 87. His death was announced by his w
 CLARK--Clifford L. On March 7, age 92. St. Luke's gifted choir director, much loved by his siblings, nephews and nieces in Canada. Memorial service April 1 at St. Luke's Chapel, NYC at 11AM. Donations: Amnesty International.       
 GARIL--Michael J. Passed away on March 23 at the age of 39. For more than 31 of those years, Michael courageously--and without ever losing his sense of humor-faced many obstacles that would have easily beaten down a lesser person, and he overcame each and every one of them. He was dedicated
 SACHS - Robert. Former marketing Vice President Harper & Row, Publishers, died March 24. Mr. Sachs was born in Kansas City, Missouri, May 21, 1911 and retired from Harper & Row in 1977 after 30 years with the publisher. He served in the 110th Evacuation Hospital during World War II and was 
 SIEGEL -- Morton F. On March 24. Beloved partner of Arlene Truen, adored father of Wendy and Scott Abish, loving grandfather of Hallie, Brett, Jake, Max and Harry, devoted brother of Selma Rosenberg & Sanford Siegel. He will be deeply missed by his family and friends. Graveside service Moun
 Pío Leyva, a songwriter and singer renowned in his native Cuba, who appeared in the film ''Buena Vista Social Club,'' died on Thursday in Havana. He was 88 and lived in Havana. The cause was a heart attack after a stroke he suffered on Sunday, his daughter, Rosalia, told Reuters.  
 Rolf Myller, an architect whose eclectic pursuits included writing children's books, puzzle books and guides to erotic games and Chinese food, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his fa
 Buck Owens, the maverick honky-tonk singer who scored a string of country hits that included ''Act Naturally'' and ''Waitin' in Your Welfare Line'' before steering country music to television as a co-host of the series ''Hee Haw,'' died on Saturday at his home in Bakersfield. He was 76.    
 Hans Wolfgang Singer, an economist who devoted his life to analyzing the causes and effects of poverty and helped create the World Food Program and the United Nations Development Program, died in his sleep on Feb. 26 in Brighton, England. He was 95. His death was announced by the Un
 ASHER--Mark G. Highly awarded Washington Post Sports Reporter 1945-2006 A Family's Memories. He started every day by asking his daughters ''Are you doing what is right in your heart?'' and he lived his life the same way. To their replies, he never said ''What I would have done if I were you
 BLAKELY--Nicholas Gervas. Retired Professor of Spanish Studies at Dutchess Community College in Poughkeepsie, NY, died unexpectedly last weekend at his home in New York City. He was 69 years old and had successfully fought multiple myloma for four years. His death was caused by pneumonia-re
 CHAPMAN--John H. March 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Gisele. Devoted father of Alex Chapman and Cate Chapman, the children of Clare Kenney Chapman, and stepfather of Judy, Nadia and Michele. Cherished grandfather of Jesse, Isabella, Isaac and Jack. His kindness and affection will be missed b
 ESTABROOK--F. Reed, Jr. The entire Avon Old Farms School community mourns the passing of our esteemed alumnus, Director, and former Board Chairman. A member of the Class of 1936, Reed Estabrook was ''Mr. Avon Old Farms'' to thousands of students, alumni, faculty and staff and their families
 FREEDMAN--Dr. James O. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, James O. Freedman. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those wh
 LINDERMAN--Morris. November 5, 1906-March 22, 2006. Predeceased by his beloved wife Mae, his life partner of 67 years. Loving, caring father to Essie and Marty, Gary and Janice. And his ''adopted children'' Rita and George Weissman. Adored ''poppa'' to his pride and joy Corey. Grandfather t
 MASON--Donald J. Sr., age 66 years, died on March 20, 2006, at home at peace in Perry, Georgia. He is survived by six sons, two brothers and a loving aunt, Dorothy Latta. The family will receive friends from 3-5 pm & 7-9 pm Sunday, March 26, 2006 at Cotton Funeral Service, Newark, NJ. Funer
 MORRIS--Lawrence B., Jr. Of Darien, CT, died March 22 at age 88. He is survived by his wife, Betty Ann, and his three children: Larry Morris of Boxford, MA; Michele Carballude of NYC; Anne Keyser of Cambridge, MA; and six grandchildren. Memorial Service will be held at the Noroton Presbyter
 NAMMACK--Peter. March 20, 2006. Beloved father of Hillary, Christopher and Sarah; dear son of Carol & William; and brother of Caitlin Weissman. Graduate of The Choate School and Vanderbilt University. Funeral mass April 3 at 10:30 AM at St. Dominic R.C. Church, Oyster Bay, NY. He will be gr
 RUTKOFF--Murray. Died on March 13, 2006 at 86. Dearest husband of Tinnette, father of Josh and Ananda Charles, brother Ari Rutkoff, he leaves a host of relatives, in-laws, and friends who will miss his sweet presence. Tinnette Rutkoff and family       
 SCOTT--Eugene L. The Tennis Week magazine staff mourn the passing of a unique man. Mr. Scott and his family are ever in our thoughts. His life and legacy will be celebrated April 1 at 11AM at The Church of the Heavenly Rest, 2 E. 90th St. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contribution
 SIEGEL -- Morton F. On March 24. Beloved partner of Arlene Truen, adored father of Wendy and Scott Abish, loving grandfather of Hallie, Brett, Jake, Max and Harry, devoted brother of Selma Rosenberg & Sanford Siegel. He will be deeply missed by his family and friends. Graveside service Moun
 STIGER--William M. At the age of 92. Of Oyster Bay, NY. On March 23, 2006. Father of Anthony D. of Manhasset, N.Y.. Sarah Stiger Ewing of Baltimore, MD, and Christian H. of Coral Gables, FL. Grandfather of five and great-grandfather of two. He was a lover of the sea, an avid sailor, and lon
 WEINER--Isaac N. 69, of Wayne, NJ, and Sanibel Island, FL, on March 24, 2006. Co-founder of Pike Construction Co., Paterson, NJ. Former Board Member of Barnert Hospital in Paterson, NJ, the YM-YWHA in Wayne, NJ, and Congregation Beth Shalom in Pompton Lakes, NJ. He is survived by his belove
 WOLF--Raymond Joseph. 85, died of bone cancer on March 22nd, 2006 at his home in Palm Beach, FL. He was the husband of Sylvia (Adams) Wolf. They were married for 60 years. Mr. Wolf was born on February 21, 1921, in Brooklyn, NY. He resided in Old Westbury, NY, New York City and Palm Beach. 
 ZINER--Zeke, 86, March 19, 2006 in Branford, CT. Husband of Feenie, father of Marc, Joe, Amie, Ted and Eric. A tirelessly productive artist, loving and generous husband, father and friend. He personified integrity in both his life and his work.       
 Dr. Leo Lutwak, a biochemist and nutritionist who raised early concerns about health risks from the diet aid fen-phen while he was a medical officer for the Food and Drug Administration, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital in Maryland. He was 77 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. The cause w
 Leon Daniel, who covered a parade of major news events of the last half-century as an editor and correspondent for United Press International, died on March 19 in Glen Ellyn, Ill., where he moved last summer. He was 74. The cause was complications after angioplasty, said his daughte
 BAILEY--Milton. Of Wayland, MA. On March 20, 2006. Devoted father of Joseph A. Bailey of Gill, MA. He was the brother of Pricilla Kolson of Poughkeepsie, NY; Bertha Weinstein of Wantagh, NY; Hyman Bialek of Silver Spring, MD; Isidore Bialek of River Edge, NJ; Benjamin Bialek of Costa Mesa, 
 BEALL--J. Glenn, Jr. Former US Senator from Maryland. Died at his family home in Frostburg on Friday, March 24, 2006. Surviving him are his wife of 46 years Nancy Lee Smith Beall, their daughter, Victoria Lee Muth and her husband Roy Whitman Muth II of North Bethesda, MD, and his brothers R
 EVERS--Leo M. (1916-2006). Died March 26th. Professional engineer, retired Lt. Col. US Army, retired Sr. Vice President Adams & Company Real Estate. Survived by his beloved wife of 63 years, Irma; their children, Dr. Kathryn Evers (Haas), Dr. Alex Evers, and Sally DeVries; and their eight g
 LaROCHE -- Chester Rea, March 24, age 79. Much loved by his children. Visitation March 28, 2-5 & 7-9pm, Barrett & Son, 424 W. 51 St, NY. Funeral March 29, 9:30am at St. Malachy's, W. 49 St., NY       
 NAMMACK--Peter. March 20, 2006. Beloved father of Hillary, Christopher and Sarah; dear son of Carol & William; and brother of Caitlin Weissman. Graduate of The Choate School and Vanderbilt University. Funeral mass April 3 at 10:30 AM at St. Dominic R.C. Church, Oyster Bay, NY. He will be gr
 RUDNET--Ernest, 65, of Tamarac, Florida. Passed on peacefully March 24, 2006. Devoted husband to Florie for 42+ years, beloved father to his children David, Colleen, Vance, Laurie, Brian and grandchildren Tyler and Ryan. Devoted brother to Gerald and deceased brothers Arthur and Irwin. Long
 Richard Fleischer, a film director who never became a household name despite working with some of Hollywood's biggest stars on hits like ''20,000 Leagues Under the Sea,'' ''Tora! Tora! Tora!'' and ''Fantastic Voyage,'' died early Saturday at the Motion Picture and Television Country House a
 Dr. Robin Coombs, a British immunologist who in the 1940's invented a blood test that bears his name and a version of which is still widely used to diagnose some kinds of anemia and to prevent negative reactions to transfusions, died on Jan. 25, said the British Society for Immunology, a pr
 Lyn Nofziger, the cigar-chomping former newspaperman who served as spokesman and strategist for Ronald Reagan in Sacramento and Washington, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 81. His death was announced by a family member, Carol Dahmen. Nancy Re
 ENGBERG--Jan. He lost his battle with heart disease on March 8 surrounded by family and friends. He is survived by his wife Marianne, son Ian, grandchildren Dean, Joshua & Mia. A tirelessly productive artistic and generous individual, he personified integrity in both his life and his work. 
 EVERS--Leo M. (1916-2006). Died March 26th. Professional engineer, retired Lt. Col. US Army, retired Sr. Vice President Adams & Company Real Estate. Survived by his beloved wife of 63 years, Irma; their children, Dr. Kathryn Evers (Haas), Dr. Alex Evers, and Sally DeVries; and their eight g
 HAWEELI--David, 85. Of Greenwich, CT. and Sanibel, FL., passed away on March 24, 2006. He was born in Berlin, NH on April 18, 1920, the youngest of five children. David graduated from Mt. Hermon School in 1938, and from Brown University in 1942, where he played varsity football and formed f
 LISKOW -- Arthur Stanley, M.D., 65. Of Tenafly, New Jersey, passed away Thursday, March 23. He was an Army Veteran of the Vietnam War. He was a radiation oncologist. He graduated from the University of Cincinnati Medical School, completing his medical training at NYU and Memorial Sloan - Ke
 MILTON--Arthur. Died suddenly March 25. Born June 7, 1922 in New York City. Arthur loved his hometown and the U.S.A. He started his business career in 1945 and built an organization in every area of insurance and financial matters. Thousands benefited by his concepts, which strengthened the
 RUDNET--Ernest, 65, of Tamarac, Florida. Passed on peacefully March 24, 2006. Devoted husband to Florie for 42+ years, beloved father to his children David, Colleen, Vance, Laurie, Brian and grandchildren Tyler and Ryan. Devoted brother to Gerald and deceased brothers Arthur and Irwin. Long
 HALPERN - Joel. Twenty five years since your tragic fatal accident. Dad is by your side, as he chose to be. We all miss you and love you. Mother and Family       
 Stanislaw Lem, a Polish science-fiction writer who, in novels like ''Solaris'' and ''His Master's Voice,'' contemplated man's place in the universe in sardonic and sometimes bleak terms, died yesterday in Krakow, Poland. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, his secretary, Wojciec
 Alfredo Silipigni, a conductor and specialist in lesser-known Italian operas who founded the New Jersey State Opera and ran it for four decades, died on Saturday in Livingston, N.J. He was 74 and lived in West Orange, N.J. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Astera Argyri
 Caspar W. Weinberger, who held high positions under three Republican presidents and oversaw the biggest and costliest military buildup in peacetime history as Ronald Reagan's secretary of defense, died yesterday in Bangor, Me., after a brief illness. He was 88. Mr. Weinberger lived 
 Dan Curtis, a prolific television producer and director who was best known for shepherding two of the most ambitious mini-series ever made, ''The Winds of War,'' and ''War and Remembrance,'' onto ABC in the 1980's, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 78. The cause was brain cancer
 Ken Kaess, who as chief executive helped DDB Worldwide solidify its position as one of the world's leading advertising agencies by attracting major new clients and championing its digital operation even after the dot-com boom had faded, died on Monday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 5
 Leslie MacMitchell, the United States' best young mile runner just before World War II and the first college undergraduate to win the Sullivan Award as the nation's outstanding amateur athlete, died March 21 in San Jose, Calif. He was 85. His wife, Jill MacMitchell, announced his de
 Nikki Sudden, a pioneer of the English rock avant-garde known for his velvet jackets and larger-than-life panache, died on Sunday, a day after performing at the Knitting Factory in Manhattan. He was 49. His record company, Secretly Canadian, announced his death on the company's Web 
 BECKMAN--James H. Cherished father and grandfather. Beloved husband of the late Lucille Beckman. His family and friends mourn his passing--his absence will be keenly felt. Funeral services Thursday, 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers, don
 CRARY -- Stephen Trow bridge, 93. Died March 23, 2006, in Hanover, N.H. Beloved as husband, father, grandfather, professor, and friend. Born in Warren, PA, he received his undergraduate and doctorate degrees from Yale University and his divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary. He se
 FELTHAM--Reginald. Completed his journey in passing on March 23, 2006. Reg was a world-class swimmer in the 1940's shattering NYC and national breast stroke records throughout his high school and college years. Later, Reg was Director of Special Education for B.O.C.E.S. II on Long Island--s
 KAESS--Kenneth R., President and CEO of DDB Worldwide, died peacefully on March 27, 2006 in his family home in Westport, CT. Ken was a beloved father to his children, Courtney and Christopher, a devoted son to Dr. Kenneth R. Kaess, Sr. of Redding, Connecticut and a dedicated brother to Karl
 MAJTELES--Bernard. After a long illness he passed away on March 25, 2006. Survived by his loving wife of 47 years, Nancy Ann, his daughter Mary Ann, son-in-law Walter Lippman, and his two loving grandchildren Juliette and Mark Lippman. Funeral services were held privately.       
 MILTON--Arthur. Died suddenly March 25. Born June 7, 1922 in New York City. Arthur loved his hometown and the U.S.A. He started his business career in 1945 and built an organization in every area of insurance and financial matters. Thousands benefited by his concepts, which strengthened the
 STUART -- Donald Kirkley. The retired president of Stuart Broadcasting Co. and founder of the National Baseball Network (NBN) died Thursday, March 23 at his home in Darien, CT at age 69. Born September 25, 1936 in Grundy VA to Russell Thorson and Caroline Clark Stuart, he graduated from Bro
 TENNEY--Daniel G., Jr. The Trustees, the Women's Board and the staff of The Boys' Club of New York express their deepest sympathy to his wife, Connie and the family of their dear friend. He was elected to the Board of Trustees in 1950 and gave unsparingly of his time and talents to help man
 Dr. Robert W. Miller, an epidemiologist who led an American team that determined that even fetuses had suffered damage from the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84. The cause was colon cancer, said the National Cancer Inst
 Denis Twitchett, a scholar of imperial China best known for his role in conceiving and creating ''The Cambridge History of China,'' a monumental 15-volume study widely regarded as the most comprehensive history of China in the English language, died on Feb. 24 in Cambridge, England. He was 
 Eugene Landy, the psychotherapist who was variously called a savior and a snake oil salesman for his unorthodox, round-the-clock treatment of Brian Wilson, the famously dissolute leader of the Beach Boys, in the 1970's and 80's, died on March 22 in Honolulu. He was 71. The cause was
 CONNELL--John Joseph. Of Bogota, NJ, formerly of Manhattan, on Wednesday, March 29, 2006. He was Chairman of Maintenance for the TWU Local 100. Volk Leber Funeral Home 201-836-0202       
 CRARY -- Stephen Trow bridge, 93. Died March 23, 2006, in Hanover, N.H. Beloved as husband, father, grandfather, professor, and friend. Born in Warren, PA, he received his undergraduate and doctorate degrees from Yale University and his divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary. He se
 GINSBERG--Victor, M.D., 92. Died March 28 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. After a distinguished career in hematology in Brooklyn, Dr. Ginsberg retired to Florida and, at the age of 75, obtained a degree in business administration from Florida Atlantic University. After completing his undergraduate s
 KAESS--Ken. DDB Worldwide and its staff are deeply saddened by the death of our President and CEO Ken Kaess. Ken was determined to bring diversity to the advertising business, and in 1998 he founded the Bill Bernbach Minority Scholarship Fund (named for one of DDB's founding fathers). The N
 MARYMONT - Joseph. March 24, 2006 of Voorhees, NJ, formerly of Teaneck, NJ. Husband of the late Marcia (nee Stettin) Marymont. Survived by many nieces and nephews and many dear friends. Services on Friday beginning at 11 A.M., Platt Memorial Chapels, Inc., Cherry Hill, NJ. In lieu of flower
 MENTZEL--Alvin J. March 27, age 84, after a brief illness. Al served as an officer in the United States Navy in the Pacific theatre during WW II. He joined the firm now known as Price Waterhouse Coopers in 1951, becoming a partner in 1963 until 1984. Upon retirement, he and his wife Hallie 
 MILTON--Arthur. The entire Citymeals-on-Wheels family mourns the passing of Arthur Milton, a wise and generous friend to the thousands of homebound elderly we nourish. We send condolences to his beloved wife Phyllis and his entire family. Marcia Stein, Exec. Director, Citymeals-on-Wheels   
 OCHS--Norman M. ''Red''. Of Syosset (but his heart was always in Rockaway) died Wednesday, March 29 at the age of 79. He is survived by his wife Betty, his children and their spouses; Tom, Peter and Nadine, Carrie and Romeo, Suzanne and Patrick and his two step-children, Elisa and Michael. 
 OTT--Howard. Cherished husband of Gloria. Beloved father and grandfather. All of his friends from childhood mourn his passing. A standup guy has left us. Middle Village Friends       
 SCHMERGEL--Paul. Of Port Washington, NY passed away Friday, March 24 in Miami, Florida. Born in Hungary in 1908, Mr. Schmergel immigrated to America in 1939. A successful real estate developer, Mr. Schmergel was responsible for many notable residential and commercial projects throughout Lon
 TENNEY--Daniel G., Jr. Of Locust Valley, N.Y. died peacefully on March 28, 2006 at age 92. Beloved husband of Constance Franchot Tenney, his wife of 66 years, he was the devoted father of Constance Rafle, Pamela Simpson, Alexandra Potts and Daniel G. Tenney III. Grandfather of nine and grea
 WYCKOFF--William S. The Directors, Officers, Staff, Members and Advisory Board of The Wyckoff House & Association wish to express their deep sorrow on the death of William F. Wyckoff and their deepest condolences to his children, grandchildren and other close family members on their loss. I
 WEINBERGER--Caspar W. The Board of the American Friends of The Churchill Museum at the Cabinet War Rooms (London) mourns the loss of our fellow Trustee, Caspar W. Weinberger. We value the passion he devoted to raising awareness of the legacy of Sir Winston S. Churchill through the new museu
 Ian Hamilton Finlay, a Scottish poet and conceptual artist known for his neo-Classical-style sculptures inscribed with poetic texts as well as for his home and garden, an imaginative echo of ancient Rome in the Pentland Hills of Lanarkshire, died on Monday at a hospital in Edinburgh. He was
 John McGahern, whose stark depiction of love and despair in repressive rural Ireland made him one of his country's most acclaimed fiction writers, died yesterday in Dublin. He was 71. Mr. McGahern died of cancer at the Mater Private Hospital, where he had been admitted earlier in th
 du MOULIN--Edward I., age 91, of Port Washington, on March 29, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor. Loving father of Richard (Ann), and the late Cathy Morea. Dear brother of Julia and Charles. Also survived by seven grandchildren, son-inlaw Jerry, and many nieces and nephews. A memori
 IASON--Girard (Jerry). Born November 12, 1918, the son of Lawrence and Sadie Robinson Iason, died on March 29, 2006. Much loved father of Larry, John and Barbara. Devoted father-in-law of Cara, Valorie and Rob. Extraordinary Poppy of Scott, Sara, Lizzie, Jessica and Emily. Loving husband of
 KAESS--Kenneth R. It was our great good fortune to know Ken Kaess as a friend and colleague over the past 16 years. Ken was so much more than a business partner and confidant, he was a remarkably caring human being who graciously put the needs and concerns of others before his own. In so ma
 OTT--Howard. Died March 28, 2006. Devoted husband and cherished father and grandfather. Adored uncle, nephew and cousin; trusted and admired friend. He leaves behind a beautiful wife Gloria, beloved children, Randi, Glenn and Seth, daughterin-law Kim and grandchildren Andrew, Tracy, Jonatha
 ROEDER--George A. Jr. Retired Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Chase Manhattan Bank, March 28 at the age of 85. He joined the Chase Manhattan Bank in 1947, and was named Vice Chairman in 1969, a position in which he served until his retirement in 1982. He and his late wife, An
 TENNEY--Daniel G., Jr. Of Locust Valley, N.Y. died peacefully on March 28, 2006 at age 92. Beloved husband of Constance Franchot Tenney, his wife of 66 years, he was the devoted father of Constance Rafle, Pamela Simpson, Alexandra Potts and Daniel G. Tenney III. Grandfather of nine and grea
 Pierre Clostermann, an ace fighter pilot who flew for de Gaulle's Free French forces in World War II, engaging in fierce combat in the Battle of Britain and over Normandy on D-Day, died March 22 at his home in Montesquieu des Albères in southwestern France. He was 85. After the war
