 Jacob Levitz, an educator and writer in Yiddish, Hebrew and English, died on June 17 at New York University Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Levitz was born in Kolno, Poland, a son and grandson of rabbis. He graduated from the Jewish Teachers Seminary in New York
 BASSMAN-George. On June 26, 1997. Composer of ''I'm Getting Sentimental Over You''. He was a combination of imaginative creativity and artistic virtuosity. Survived by former wife, Liz, children Robert, Joan, Leslie and David, grandchildren Kimberly, Emlie, Tracy, Paul, Demian and Nicholas.
 CARONE-William J. Of Bayville. On June 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Mary (Nee DeNatale)). Devoted father of William J. Jr., Elizabeth Peters and Julienne. Loving son of Catherine. The family will receive friends Tuesday 7-9pm and Wednesday 3-5 and 7-9pm at the McLaughlin Kramer Megiel Funer
 DROGHEO-Joseph E. On June 26th. Beloved husband of Sara (nee-Crawford). Survived by his daughter Gianna Mitchell, grandchildren Sara and Justin Mitchell, brother Frank Drogheo, sister Margherita Carry and special cousin, Katherine Iaquimto. Funeral service 10:30 Thursday, at The Church of t
 FELDMAN-Joel, M.D. F.A.C.P., 91 of Rumson, New Jersey, Saturday, June 28, 1997. Husband of the late Suwannee J. Friedland Feldman, father of Henry S. (Hank) and Paul J. Feldman, brother of Nat Feldman, grandfather of five, great grandfather of two. Visitation at the John E. Day Funeral Home
 FREUND-Lucas. We have lost one of our best friends. We will miss you always. Lucas, we love you. Alex, Ben, Peter, Jon, Jamie, Damon, and Will. FREUND-Lucas S. The Board and Staff of The Children's Museum of Manhattan extend their deepest sympathy on the sudden passing of Lucas, bel
 HOPKINS-Gordon A. Age 85 of Whitestone, New York died on June 29, 1997. He was born in Newton, MA., and was in the publishing business in Boston at the Boston Transcript and with Lothrop, Lee and Shepard. His 35-year association with Doubleday in sales and the editorial office in New York a
 HYAMS-George. The Faculty of New York University School of Medicine deeply mourn the loss of George Hyams, M.D. Dr. Hyamns joined the faculty in 1952, and served for 45 years as an Attending Physician at Bellevue and Tisch Hospitals. He was a physician who cared for patients from all walks 
 KHAN-Michael. On Sunday, June 29, Michael lost his valiant battle with AIDS. He will be remembered as a man who enjoyed doing for and being with his family and friends. He appreciated the simpler things in life: theater, movies, TV, music and dinner with friends. He will live in our hearts 
 KILBORNE-George Briggs, of West Palm Beach, June 27. Father of G. Briggs Kilborne of West Palm Beach, Florida, Kim K. Thielemann of Ellicott City, MD and Sarah S.K. De Bienville of New York, NY. Brother of Belle K. Taylor of Hillsborough, CA and the late Robert S. Kilbourne, III. Also survi
 KIRSCHENBAUM-Richard. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed Founding Member. We extend deepest sympathy to his children Charles, Penny and to the entire family. Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Linda P. Goldberg, President Julian Bernstein, 
 McCORMICK-Kenneth D. Age 91, on June 27, 1997, in NYC. Suvived by his wife Anne, daughter Dale, sons Kevin and John, and grandchildren Eric, Sherrill and Paley. Funeral Mass at Holy Name Church, 96th St and Amsterdam Ave, Wednesday, July 2, 10:30 AM. McCORMICK - Kenneth. We mourn th
 PENA-Lucas. June 28, in NYC. He is survived by his first wife, Rosa Pena and her children Dinorah, Rose, Lucas Jr., and his second wife, Yolande B. Pena and her son Reynaldo Pena; his grandchildren Christopher, Amanda, Cynthia, Lucas III, and Leander. Mass of Christian Burial will be celebr
 SCHWARTZ-Ludwig. We deeply mourn the passing of our longtime friend Lou, for more than forty years, who struggled courageously with cancer for many years. He was a devoted husband to his wife Francesca and a loving father to Robert, Monica and Valerie. With deep sorrow, we extend our condol
 WHITE-Raymond C. On June 26, 1997, beloved husband of the late Helen M. (nee Cronin). A Fordham man-Prep 25 College '29, Law '32. Captain U.S. Army W.W. II. Senior Vice President Morgan Guaranty, retired 1972. A Catholic gentleman respected by those who knew him and loved by his two childre
 William Hickey, whose career as an actor on stage and in radio, television and films reached its peak in his portrayal of a decrepit, raspy-voiced Mafia don in the 1985 film ''Prizzi's Honor,'' died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 69 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cau
 Harry A. McQuillen 3d, the chief operating officer of the K-III Communications Corporation, died over the weekend at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 51 years old. The cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head, according to the office of Connecticut's chief medical examiner. Dr
 John J. Reilly, a retired judge of the New York State Supreme Court and a former mayor of Upper Nyack, N.Y., died last Tuesday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla., where he had a vacation home. He was 84 and lived in Upper Nyack. He suffered a brief illness, the Hannemann F
 ALPERT-Ferd. Beloved husband and best friend of Gladys, father of Sandra Shulak of Scottsdale, Az, Ruth Alpert and Robert Alpert of Houston, Tx, brother of Dr. Joseph Alpert of Savannah, Georgia and grandfather of four. Services to be held at Menorah Gardens, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida.   
 BACHMANN-Emile W., 79, died June 23rd, at his Bronx home after a long illness. He died as he had lived, with dignity, grace and courage. Born in Zurich, Switzerland, he served in the Army Air Corps during WWII, receiving the Distinguished Flying Cross. He later owned a renowned cabinetmakin
 BRUMBERG-Benjamin, 80. Wonderful, loving, generous and devoted man will be greatly missed by everyone. His wife Thelma of 57 years and his whole family, Eileen and Michael Cohen, Barry, Kitty, David and Matthew Brumberg, Cari, Max, Zack, Ruby and Benjamin Lang, Scot, Julie and Hank Cohen, J
 CARONE-William J. Of Bayville. On June 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Mary (Nee DeNatale)). Devoted father of William J. Jr., Elizabeth Peters and Julienne. Loving son of Catherine. The family will receive friends Tuesday 7-9pm and Wednesday 3-5 and 7-9pm at the McLaughlin Kramer Megiel Funer
 COHEN-Michael. Beloved husband of Marla, devoted father of Michael Spencer, loving son of Robert and Harriet, dear brother of James and Claudia. Services Wednesday, July 2, 1997, 12 noon at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th St. Contributions to the Michael Cohen Memorial Fund, C/O of El
 CONVERSE-Chandler Bullock, a mutual fund executive, died on July 1, 1997 at his home in West Palm Beach after a long illness. He was 65. Mr. Converse was born in Boston, MA. He graduated from Milton Academy, Yale University and the Stanford Business School. His career in mutual fund managem
 DROGHEO-Joseph E. On June 26th. Beloved husband of Sara (nee-Crawford). Survived by his daughter Gianna Mitchell, grandchildren Sarah and Justin Mitchell, brother Frank Drogheo, sister Margherita Carry and special cousin, Catherine Iaquinto. Funeral service 10:30 Thursday, at The Church of 
 EDELSTEIN-Julius, on June 30, 1997, in his 99th year. Beloved husband of the late Rebecca; devoted father of Joyce, Shelly, Richard, Phyllis; loving grandfather of Carla, Daniel, Franklin, Sharon, David, Bonnie, Steven, Meeghan, Jeffrey, Mark, Bruce, and Francesco; great grandfather of Davi
 GROSS-Melvin F. Age 79, on June 27. Beloved husband of Ina and father of Laura Gross. Also survived by two loving stepchildren, Michael Molnar and Myrna Maltz, four grandchildren: Dean and Gary Maltz, Jacqueline and Julia Molnar, and three greatgrandchildren: Daniel, Alexandra and Eric Malt
 HELLER-Marvin. Loved his family, wife Rita (Rothman), daughter Laurie (Dr. Robert) Gordon, son Robert (Deena) Heller, precious grandchildren Daniel & Michael Gordon, Jessica & Brandon Heller, late sister Frances Lubitz, nephews and nieces. And we loved him. Services Wednesday, July 2, 10 AM
 HOCHBERG-H. Barry. July 1, 1997. We are shocked and saddened by his untimely death. Beloved husband of Annette, devoted and loved son of Phil and Cyla Hochberg, loving father of Dania, Darrin, Amanda and Justin, dearest brother of Etti and brother-inlaw of Chaim, Michelle and Sam. Cherished
 KATZ-Ephraim Aryeh Leibesh. Yeshiva University & its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary are deeply saddened by the passing of the beloved husband of the late Golda and father of Marcos D. (and Adina) Katz, YU Benefactors who established RIETS' Marcos and Adina Katz Kollel 
 LAVIN-Bob. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Bob Lavin. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 LOVELL-Tom. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing ofHall of Fame Illustrator, Tom Lovell. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 LOWERY-Jack. Fellow and Life Member of the American Society of Interior Designers (ASID). Colleague and guiding force in the world of interior design. Past ASID National President and Past President, N.Y. Metropolitan Chapter of American Institute of Designers (AID). He will be missed by al
 McCORMICK-Kenneth D. The colleagues of Anne McCormick mourn the passing of her husband, Ken. Doubleday's legendary editor and a major figure in American book publishing, his remarkable talents inspired the best in his writers and produced countless books that will surely stand the test of t
 MICHALAK-Karl, lost consciousness on Monday, June 30 due to cardiac arrythmia. Writer, film critic, artist, cartoonist, costumer, musician, song writer, linguist, activist. Karl fought long & valiantly against all odds. He is survived by Michael his partner of ten years, his parents Katheri
 ROSENTHAL-Daniel. The Board of Directors and members of the Ocean Beach Club mourn the death of Daniel Rosenthal, 57, son of longtime members the late Charles and Carol Rosenthal. He died after a long bout with MS and will be sorely missed. Contributions can be made to Camp Oakhurst or a ch
 STRONG-Woodbridge, 87, formerly of Highland Park, NJ and Lenox, MA on June 21, 1997. Son of the late New Jersey State Senator Theodore and Cornelia Livingston Van Rensselaer Strong. Mr. Strong was an attorney for almost 50 years with the family firm of Strong & Strong in New Brunswick, NJ. 
 TARPLIN-Ely. Died July 1, 1997, 79 years of age. Died after a long battle against Alzheimer's disease in Pittsburgh, PA., where he had lived for the past five years. Surviving are his wife of fifty years and sixteen days, Penny Breyer Tarplin, children Josh and Diane, Howard and Jo, and Sus
 THOMPSON-Rolland D., of Boston, on Monday, June 30. Beloved husband of Margaret (Rowland) Thompson and of his late wife, Elizabeth (Stilwell). Devoted father of Peter B. Thompson of Oak Park, IL., Michael G. Thompson of Arlington, MA., and Amy W. Thompson of E. Providence, R.I. Loving step-
 WEINBLATT-Bernard. June 28, 1997. Beloved husband of Beulah, devoted father of Ellen, Shelley, Barbara and Stu H., Vivian, Geoffrey and Donna, Shelley and David F. He was a quiet man; an extraordinary man. How we shall miss him! May he rest in peace.       
 WILNER-Yale. ''Lease on life'' ended July 1, 1997 at the King Street Nursing Home, Rye Brook, NY which he owned and operated with his devoted wife Betty. Born in NYC 9/22/06 Yale attended schools in Perth Amboy, NJ graduating class of 1924. Received Bachelor of Science Degree and was member
 Robert Mitchum, the insouciant actor whose heavy-lidded eyes gazed on the world with cynical amusement as he radiated rugged strength in more than 100 movies, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 79. The Associated Press reported that he had been s
 Charles M. Hardin, professor emeritus of political science at the University of California at Davis and a widely respected advocate of constitutional revision, died on Saturday at his daughter's home in San Francisco. Professor Hardin, who also lived in San Francisco, was 88. In 198
 James Stewart, whose movie portrayals of decent, idealistic and naive small-town Americans made him a beloved national icon, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89. He died from a blood clot in his lung, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Stewart's per
 Michael E. Cohen, executive vice president of the Hudson News Company, a large wholesale distributor and retailer of magazines, died on Wednesday at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 41. The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Cohen, a native of Englew
 HYAMS-George, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join the physicians and staff of the Department of Medicine in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, George Hyams, M.D., recipient of the H. Mason 
 JOHNSON-Reginald Lee of Riverdale, NY on July 1, 1997. Beloved father of Dorothy Truscott and William Johnson, and adored by his six grandchildren and 16 greatgrandchildren. Retired Vice President Johns Manville Corp. Services 10 AM Tuesday, Christ Church, 252 Street & Henry Hudson Pkwy., B
 MOHOVICH - Roger. Brother, uncle and dear friend, Roger died Fri., June 13, 1997 of AIDS-related lymphoma. A writer, historian and avid collector of early TwentiethCentury Americana, he had an abiding love for New York City. He will always be remembered and loved for his generosity, wit and
 PITTS-Bill. 1924-1997. All of his friends at Lois/EJL are deeply saddened by the death of Bill Pitts, our delightful co-worker, pal, confidant, Rabbi! Bill retired seven years ago to devote every day to his painting. His work displayed a growing artistic talent. But then, Bill was terrific 
 SCHWARTZ-Robert S., of New York City, died on June 28, 1997 at age 69 due to complications following heart surgery after a long and valiant struggle. Devoted husband of Mary. Father of David and Matthew. Beloved family man, grandfather of three and friend to all. He leaves a large hole in t
 Robert Francis Byrnes, a professor emeritus of history at Indiana University who founded and directed the Russian and East European Institute, died on June 19 at the Columbia Brunswick Hospital in Ocean Isle, N.C. He was 79 and lived in Bloomington, Ind. He suffered a heart attack a
 Blair Birdsall, a civil engineer whose expertise in suspension bridges and other cable systems stretched from the Golden Gate in California to the East River to one of the world's engineering marvels, now being built in Denmark, died on June 25 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 9
 Dr. Felix N. Rutledge, a gynecologic surgeon who is credited with developing the medical specialty dealing with cancer in the female genital tract, died on June 21 at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 79 and lived in Geneva, Tex. The cause was complications of a stroke, family m
 Johnny Copeland, one of the foremost Texas blues singers and guitarists of the 70's and 80's, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. The cause was complications during a surgical repair of a heart valve, seven months after
 HERZBERG-Maurice. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of Maurice Herzberg, father of Harriet Weissman and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Judith Schindler, Assoc. Rabbi       
 LANNING-E. Wilson (Bill). Age 80 of Chestertown, NY. Survived by 8 of his 9 children, including Mary Lanning of NYC. Memorial contributions to Adirondack Tri-County Healthcare Center, North Creek, NY 12853. Visiting hours Saturday & Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 P.M., BartonMcDermott Funeral Home, 9 P
 MORRIS-Jonathan Scott. On June 23, 1997. Memorial services were held on June 25, 1997, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. The family of Jonathan Scott Morris has requested that any donations made in his honor be made to the Jonathan Morris Jerusalem Middle East Peace Th
 SMALL-Nathan. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns the loss of its member and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President       
 Charles Kuralt, the CBS newsman who turned basic curiosity into a prize-winning journalistic ethos as he ranged across the country to interview the overlooked and explore the underappreciated, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 62. The cause of death was heart failure, said
 Jerome Machlin, one of America's most prominent directors of bridge tournaments, died on Tuesday in a nursing home near his home in Wheaton, Md. He was 83. He had been suffering from congestive heart problems and renal failure, his wife, Trudy, said. Mr. Machlin, known as Je
 Jess Meeker, a composer, accompanist and musical director at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, died on Wednesday at Toledo Hospital in Toledo, Ohio. Mr. Meeker was 85 and lived in Toledo. The cause was cardiac arrest, according to a spokeswoman for the festival, in Becket, Mass.   
 Leslie (Bubba) Gaines, a noted tap dancer and leading member of the Copasetics tap group, died on Monday at the Veterans Hospital in Manhattan after a short illness. He was 85 and lived in Harlem. Mr. Gaines, born in Waycross, Ga., was a boxer who danced on street corners and in car
 KURALT-Charles. We shall remember his humanity, his voice, his wit, his smile, his friendship and generosity. Buzz Hartshorn Cornell Capa Int'l Center of Photography       
 ROMANELLI-Umberto, 89, on June 30. A graveside service was held on July 2 at Sharon Gardens Cemetery in Valhalla, NY. Mr. Romanelli is survived by his wife of 58 years, Nedda of New York City; his daughter, Rosanna Frank of Chappaqua, NY; two sons, Joseph of Jerusalem, Israel, and Daniel of
 Jose A. Martinez, who in the early 1940's danced with the American Ballet Caravan and Ballet Society, precursors of the New York City Ballet, died on June 24 at the Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Pasadena. Mr. Martinez, who was born in Mexico
 BAKER-Edward G. Died July 4, 1997, in Morehead City, NC, age 88. Beloved husband of Mary Louise, devoted father of five children. Also survived by one sister, Anne Delaney of Massapequa, LI; seven grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren. Dr. Baker was the former head of the department of 
 CANTWELL-Jerome F. (Jerry) On July 5, 1997 at his home on Eastern Long Island. Beloved husband of Josephine (nee Paone). Adored son of Fredrick and the late Mary Cantwell. Dearest brother of Fredrick, Edward, Raymond and Christopher. Loving uncle of six nephews and seven nieces. Friends may
 COHN-Richard, on July 4, 1997. Devoted husband of Mildred (nee Elias). Beloved father of William S. and Kenneth E.. Adored fatherin-law of Janet. Loving uncle of Deborah, Tom and Lisa. 12:00PM Service on Sunday, Temple Israel, Pinebrook Blvd., New Rochelle. In lieu of flowers, contributions
 COPELAND-Johnny, on July 3, 1997. We have lost one of our dearest friends who thrilled audiences around the globe as the ''Ambassador of the Blues.'' His love and music will be missed. Brad and Michael Winters Buddy Fox and the staff of Manny's Car Wash       
 CZINER-Rudolf. On July 3. Beloved by his wife Lucille Rhodes, and her children and grandchilddren Anita, Doug and Natasha Herron, Michelle Rhodes Sosnowski, Andy and Kazio Sosnowski. He deeply touched us and so many others by his generous encouragement that we each strive to lead meaningful
 HEDBERG-Dr. Francis G. Of Huntington, NY on July 3, 1997. Dr. Hedberg had a private dental practice in Manhattan for over 35 years and served as team dentist for the NY Giants during the 1970's. Beloved husband of Arlene Dreher. Loving father of Thomas, Jerilyn, Eric and Jennifer. Dear step
 HICKS-Edward L. III, age 77, died of prostate cancer at his home in Greenwich, CT on July 3, 1997. He served as a Lieutenant in the US Navy in WWII and received a B.S. from Yale in 1942, where he was a member of St. Anthony Hall. He later received an M.A. at Teachers College, Columbia Unive
 HOCHHAUSER-Kenneth. 49, of Framingham, MA, on July 3, 1997. Loving husband of Kathy, devoted father of Ellen and Gwen, cherished son of Rita and Stanley, beloved brother of Richard and Carole. Adoring uncle of Jonathan and Jennifer. His courage was an inspiration to everyone who knew him. M
 KURALT-Charles. We shall remember his humanity, his voice, his wit, his smile, his friendship and generosity. Buzz Hartshorn Cornell Capa Int'l Center of Photography       
 LEVINSON-Albert. Of Singer Island, FL, formerly of Perth Amboy, NJ, died July 2, 1997 after a long struggle with prostate cancer. He was the retired Senior VicePresident Of Amerada Hess and the retired President of PEC, Israel Economic Corporation. He is survived by his wife Joyce; sons Dan
 MOORE-John Chamberlain. Of Seabury Retirement Community, Bloomfield, CT, died suddenly on July 4, 1997. Born May 7, 1915, in Auburn, NY, he attended the Gunnery in Washington, CT, graduated from Yale University in 1938, and earned his LLB from Yale in 1941. He joined Haight, Gardner, Poor &
 MORRIS-Jonathan Scott. On June 23, 1997. Memorial services were held on June 25, 1997, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. The family of Jonathan Scott Morris has requested that any donations made in his honor be made to the Jonathan Morris Jerusalem Middle East Peace Th
 RUBIN-Maxwell A. On July 4, 1997, age 86, after a brief illness. Beloved husband and best friend of Hyacinth. Devoted father of Janet and Lois. Loving grandfather of Heather and Dustin. Cherished brother of Rose Krefetz. Services Sunday, July 6, at noon, at the Riverside Nassau Chapel in Gr
 SALZ-Jacque A. On July 5, 1997. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend, member and past president, Mr. Jacque A. Salz. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Alan S. Berger, President Eric B. Sambol, Sec
 SHAPIRO-Louis A., 78, on June 17, 1997. Retired Official of the United Nations Development Pro gramme, of Royal Palm Beach, FL., formerly of Westbury, NY. Survived by his wife, Sylvia, children; Felice, Nina and Paul, and three grandsons. Donations may be made to Temple Beth Zion, Sparrow D
 THOMPSON-Rolland. We note with great sorrow the passing of our respected former partner an innovator in educational building design. He strongly influenced our architectural firm's development. Jordan Gruzen, Peter Samton Gruzen Samton Architects       
 ZIMMERMAN-George. Of Margate, FL, on July 1, 1997. Beloved husband of Faye, devoted father of Rona Feinberg, father-in-law of Gary, and loving grandfather of Max. He will be sorely missed by all of us.       
 Wolcott Balestier Dunham, a cancer specialist whose research over more than six decades advanced the treatment of several infectious diseases, died on June 22 at a nursing home in Towson, Md., near Baltimore. He was 97. Dr. Dunham, who published his final research paper at 95, was l
 Woodbridge Strong, a former law partner in the family practice of Strong & Strong in New Brunswick, N.J., died on June 21 at the Francis E. Parker Memorial Home in Piscataway, N.J. He was 87 and had previously lived in Highland Park, N.J., and Lenox, Mass. Mr. Strong was a son of St
 Dr. Ade Thomas Milhorat, a pioneering researcher of neuromuscular disease and one of the world's foremost experts in muscular dystrophy, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Barre, Vt. He was 98 and lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y. Dr. Milhorat began his work with nerve and muscle disea
 Malcolm Arthur Hoffmann, a former Federal antitrust official, New York lawyer and author of legal textbooks, died on June 24 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. A Brooklyn native, Mr. Hoffmann graduated magna cum 
 BERRY-Dean F. Of Boston, June 30, 1997, age 65. Son of Dorothy A. Berry of Sparks, NV, and the late Glenn R. Berry. Father of Anne Kathryn Berry of Los Angeles, CA, Margaret Marie Pedani of Florence, Italy, Glenn C. Berry of San Francisco, CA, and the late Alison E. Berry. Brother of Kathle
 CANTWELL-Jerome F. (Jerry) On July 5, 1997 at his home on Eastern Long Island. Beloved husband of Josephine (nee Paone). Adored son of Fredrick and the late Mary Cantwell. Dearest brother of Fredrick, Edward, Raymond and Christopher. Loving uncle of six nephews and seven nieces. Friends may
 GOETT-Edward J. Age 78, died on Thursday, July 3, 1997. He was born in New York City, NY in 1918. He received his education at Fordham University, earning his B.S. in mathematics and physics & graduating Magna Cum Laude in 1939. He received his M.S. degree in chemical engineering at Columbi
 HAMANN-Leonard C. Age 87, of Covenant Village, Cromwell, CT, formerly of Valley Stream, NY. Husband of Elsie S. (Hopfmuller) Hamann, died Saturday, July 5. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on December 3, 1909, he was the son of the late Charles W. and Sigrid (Frey) Hamann. Before retiring in 1972, he 
 MURPHY-John Joseph, 91. Born September. 28, 1905, in Ballinlassa, Castle Bar, County Mayo, Ireland, passed away July 1, 1997, in Newport Beach, CA. He is survived by his wife Mary Murphy, daughter Mary Monroe, both of Newport Beach, CA, grandchildren Maura T., William J., and John D. Monroe
 vonSUMMER-Alexander Carl, 58, died July 4, 1997. Beloved father, husband, business partner. Survived by wife Elizabeth Fellows vonSummer; son Alexander vonSummer; daughters Kristen and Hollis vonSummer; sister Rosalin vonSummer; stepdaughter Courtney Cotter; stepson Christopher Cotter. Born
 Dr. Richard Grimes, a pathologist and neurosurgeon who was the medical examiner of Queens County from 1929 to 1969, died Tuesday at Phoebe Home in Allentown, Pa. A former resident of Brooklyn and Queens, he was 93 and lived in Macungie, Pa. Born in Brooklyn, Dr. Grimes studied at Co
 Richard H. Randall Jr., an authority on medieval ivory carvings who was the director of the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore from 1965 to 1981, died on Thursday in Baltimore. He was 71 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Christopher. Mr. Randal
 Mate Boban, the hard-line leader of the Bosnian Croats during their war with the Bosnian Muslims and a close ally of President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia, died today after a stroke, according to hospital officials in Mostar. He was 57. Mr. Boban, a former salesman for a clothing stor
 BALSAM-Joseph M. We mourn the loss of Joseph M. Balsam. Son of the late Sheindel, Rivka and Berish Balsam. Husband of the late Bluma Balsam. Father and father-in-law of Deena and Tzvi Moses, Vivian and Label Steinhardt, Esther and Ephraim Becker, Moshe and Rebecca Balsam, Leah and Alex Gans
 BERRY-Dr. Dean F. (Professor) of Charlestown, Boston on July 1. Son of Dorothy of Reno, Nevada and Glenn Berry (deceased). Father of Anne Kathryn Berry of Los Angeles. Margaret M. Pedani of Florence, Italy, Glenn C. Berry of San Francisco, and Alison E. Berry (deceased). Also survived by hi
 COHEN-Joseph. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Joseph Cohen, July 6, 1997. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Graveside Services will be held today at Roosevelt Memorial Park, Old Lincoln Highway, Tre
 HALPERN-William J. Husband of Sylvia, father of Sharyn Kevin and Seth Halpern. Former member, American Stock Exchange. He will be missed.       
 KERR-Clarence D. (Skip) III, 62, in Harpswell, ME, on July 5, former resident of Montclair, New Jersey. Survivors include his wife Margery Lindholm Kerr; two daughters, Karen D. Kerr and Linda A. Bowers and his mother Cornelia Dielhenn, a brother and a sister. Memorial service at 2 P.M., Sa
 LAWSON-Neil S. Died June 30, 1997, at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota. FL. He was 84. Born in Bremerton, WA., he lived in Florida for ten years. Prior to that in lived in Morris Plains, NJ for 35 years. Mr. Lawson was the owner and president of Olsen and Lawson Construction Co. in Do
 LONG-Robert Lancaster. June 30, 1997, age 91. Resident of Manchester Center, VT., and formerly Rochester, N.Y. Loving husband of Mary Franchot Gorsline, who predeceased him in 1995. Survived by sons, Robert L., Jr. of Corrales, NM, and William Gorsline Long of Bronxville, NY, five grandchil
 MITCHELL-Kenneth F., of Levittown, New York, on July 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Ellen; loving father of Kenneth Jr., Joseph, Daniel, Arthur, Dennis, Susan Fenton, Jeanette Hoff and Lisa Turnbull. Cherished grandfather of eighteen grandchildren. Adored brother of Elizabeth Gilmartin and Rus
 RIEGER-Saul. Died July 1, 1997. Aged 82. In Walnut Creek, Calif. Survived by his wife Roma Rieger, his daughters Toni Stuessy, Susan Rieger, Gina Rieger and six grandchildren.       
 SIEGEL-Milton J., died Monday, July 7 in Great Barrington, Massachusetts after a long illness. He made his homes in Manhattan and Otis, MA. He graduated from the City College of New York in 1942 and served in Europe with the US Army during W.W. II. He practiced as Senior Partner with the Ac
 David Anderson, a United States Ambassador to Yugoslavia in the 1980's, died on July 4 in Berlin. He was 60. The cause of death was a liver disease, family members said. As Ambassador in Belgrade from 1981 to 1985, his main task was to help Yugoslavia cope with a deepening e
 Gloster B. Current, former deputy executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Thursday at North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Forest Hills, Queens. Mr. Current, who lived in Hollis, Queens, was 84. T
 Henry Evans Howell Jr., a populist-style liberal Virginia Democrat who irked party old-liners so much that they banded with conservative Republicans to end his political career in 1977, died on Monday at his home in Norfolk. He was 76. He had suffered a lengthy illness, his family s
 BIORNSTAD-Koll L. On July 8, 1997. He is survived by Joyce, Lynn, Turid, Nina and Carin. Loving grandfather of Christopher, Ariana, Anina, Luke and Julian. He graduated from Brooklyn Tech, New York University and was active in the maritime industry. He was the owner of Woodbury Chartering, 
 BLOOMBERG-Stanley L. Age 70, of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Marilyn M. Bloomberg, loving father to Nancy and Peter Hill of Weston, MA. and Kenny and Maria Bloomberg of Dallas, TX., devoted brother to Norma Wilk of NY City, adoring grandfather of Harry, Caroline and Hunter Hill, caring
 CUNNION-Paul A., on July 7, 1997. Director of Philippine-American Chamber of Commerce. Husband of Kathleen (Muffin) McGrath Cunnion. Son of Edna Curley Cunnion and the late Arthur Cunnion. Brother of Patricia C. Smith, Edna Clare O'Neill, John D. Cunnion, Helen C. Corrigan, Robert F. Cunnio
 DAVID-Jack. Congregation Orach Chaim mourns the passing of its devoted member and extends heartfelt condolences to his sons Steven and Marvin. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi Wolf Scheck, President       
 FRENKEL-Tobias. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our member, Tobias Frenkel. We extend profound condolences to his son and daughter-in-law, William and Gigi Frenkel, to his children, grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and J
 GEORGE-David L., Jr., of Hawley, PA., and formerly from Pelham, New York, died suddenly Sunday, July 6, 1997. He graduated from Lawrenceville Schools in 1964 & Denver University. He was the son of David L. and Margaret Trimpi George of Hawley, PA. In addition to his parents, he is survived 
 GOLDSMITH-Irvin J. On July 8, 1997, beloved husband of Theresa, adored father of James, and daughter-in-law of Kathleen, cherished grandfather of David, Jonathan, and Robert. We mourn the loss of a unique and precious human being. He leaves a legacy of devotion and love for his family and t
 JIRAK-Mary. On behalf of our entire organization it is with profound sorrow that we express our sincere condolences to our Vice Chairman, Jeff Gural and his wife Paula Jirak Gural on the untimely loss of Paula's dear mother Mary. We also wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy to the rest of 
 KEEFE-Jeremiah. The staff and officers of the New York County Medical Society regret the death of their colleague and ally. His wisdom, steady strength, and good humor will be missed after 25years of friendship. Our sympathy to Manya and his family. Gary A. Gatza, Executive Director       
 LYONS-Daniel J., 92, died July 3 at his home in Princeton, NJ. Born in Randolph, MA., he was the son of Elizabeth G. and Timothy F. Lyons. Beloved husband of Irene M. Lyons and devoted father of Jean L. Entwistle, Daniel J. Lyons, Jr., Paul O. Lyons and Irene L. Madden; nine grandchildren a
 McCAHILL-Eugene P., of Fort Lauderdale passed away on July 6, 1997. Mr. McCahill was a Minneapolis businessman and philanthropist. Born 1898 in Duluth, Minnesota, he attended Loyola Academy in Chicago and graduated from Georgetown University Graduate School. He organized and was the first n
 RUBIN-Leonard H. Loving father of Edward and Anne, devoted companion of Sandra Attardi, on July 5, 1997. Lawyer and civil libertarian, longtime member of the N.Y. Civil Liberties Union Board of Directors. Contributions may be made to the NYCLU. He was a good man and we loved him.       
 SALZ-Jacque. The Board of Trustees and members of the Ocean Beach Club mourn the loss of our long-time member and express condolences to his family. Andy Arno, President Laurie Lowenstein, Secretary       
 ZWERLING-Irving. Age 69. Died Monday July 7, 1997 among family members at his home in New York City. A devoted and loving husband and father as well as a brilliant lawyer. Irving will be missed by his wife of forty years Michele, his 3 daughters Caroline, Fabienne and Patricia, his son-inla
 MASSEY-Benjamin. July 9, 1980. He worked, loved, learned and laughed 'til his last hours and left us memories to honor and cherish a lifetime. And, we do! The Tribe of Benjamin       
 Alexander Carl von Summer, the head of one of New Jersey's leading commercial real estate companies, died on Friday in a motorcycle accident in Putnam County, New York. He was 58 and lived in Riverside, Conn. Mr. von Summer lost control of his motorcycle when it hit a patch of grave
 Charles L. Drake, emeritus professor of earth science at Dartmouth College and a leading advocate of the  theory that it was volcanic eruptions that killed off the dinosaurs, died on Tuesday at his home in Norwich, Vt.  He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said  his wife, Martha
 Daniel J. Lyons, who rose from an assistant actuary to become chairman of the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, died last Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J. Mr. Lyons was 92 years old. After graduating with a mathematics degree from Harvard University in 1926, Mr. Lyo
 BLOOMBERG-Stanley L. Age 70, of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Marilyn M. Bloomberg, loving father to Nancy and Peter Hill of Weston, MA. and Kenny and Maria Bloomberg of Dallas, TX., devoted brother to Norma Wilk of NY City, adoring grandfather of Harry, Caroline and Hunter Hill, caring
 CICERO-Michael J. Founder and President of the Michael J. Cicero Civic Association and President of the Virginia Michael J. Cicero Foundation, Inc. He passed away on July 9 at Seaview Community Rehabilitation Center on Staten Island. He leaves behind thirty nieces and nephews who live in th
 DUNNE-Anthony Thomas (Tony). Of Dublin, July 4, 1997 at St. Vincent's Private Hospital. Aged 35 years, treasured husband of Marian. Late of Centre Re (Dublin), Finpro Bowring (London), Guy Carpenter (New York) and Prudential (Dublin). Interment took place in Dunshaughlin Cemetery, County Me
 EPSTEIN-Harold, age 94, died on July 8 at his home and garden in Larchmont, NY. Beloved husband of Esta, also survived by his daughters Laurel Loeb and Susan Cherbuliez and son-in-law Dr. Theodore Cherbuliez, his granddaughters Ariane, Nicole, Lisa, Diana, and Juliette, and Lisa's husband J
 FINLEY-Joseph E. Beloved and revered General Counsel Emeritus and historian for the Office and Professional Employees International Union died on July 8, 1997. Mr. Finley served the Union for Professional Technical and Clerical Employees for more than forty years. He advocated for OPEIU mem
 GOLDSMITH-Irvin J. On July 8, 1997, beloved husband of Theresa, adored father of James, & daughter-in-law Kathleen, cherished grandfather of David, Jonathan, and Robert. We mourn the loss of a unique & precious human being. He leaves a legacy of devotion and love for his family and the worl
 GOOD-Robert E., 64, died suddenly June 19. Leaves relatives and many devoted friends. Pioneer advertising/media researcher and president, Response Measurement Systems Corp. Thoughtful/ wide ranging conceptualizer/empiricist generously sharing his learning with many. Memorial gathering on Su
 JIRAK-Mary. On behalf of our entire organization it is with profound sorrow that we express our sincere condolences to our Vice Chairman, Jeff Gural and his wife Paula Jirak Gural on the untimely loss of Paula's dear mother Mary. We also wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy to the rest of 
 KAUFMAN-Rose. The officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with deep sorrow the lost of Rose Kaufman, beloved mother of Rabbi Yechiel Kaufman, the esteemed associate director of our Division for Developmental Disabilities. We extend o
 KEEFE-Jeremiah J., J.D. The Board of Directors and members of the New York State Society of Internal Medicine are saddened by the passing of our Executive Director, Jeremiah J. Keefe, J.D., who served Internists in organized medicine for twenty-six years. He actively represented Internists 
 KIRSCH-Murray H. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Barbara and Arthur. Adored grandfather of David, Miriam and Laura. We deeply mourn the loss of a man who had endless love for his family and friends. His kindness, warmth, sense of humor and caring ways will always be remembered a
 KURALT-Charles. The Beatrice Inn family and its loyal clientele will forever miss his warmth and friendliness. Ciao, Charlie. KURALT-Charles, in New York on the 4th of July. Goodbye, Charlie. We love you. Ellen and Arthur       
 LANDSMAN-Paul A. Dechert Price & Rhoads is deeply saddened by the death of our former partner on July 9. A leader of the New York real estate bar for decades, Paul was a good friend and wise counselor. Our sincerest sympathies are extended to his wife, Eleanor, and their families.       
 OLSTAD-Martin Hugo. Died July 5, 1997 in his 92nd year. Beloved father of Martin D., Carolyn Somer, and the late Dr. Walter B. Olstad. He is also survived by his brother J. Walter Olstad and two sisters Thyra Utz and Rachel Valentine, as well as 8 grandchildren and four great grandchildren.
 ROSENBAUM-Ben. Beloved husband of 50 years to Gertrude. Devoted father and father-in-law to Ralph and Beatrice and loving grandfather to Joel. Brother to Lilly Kellner and Edmund Rosenbaum. Services today 12 noon, Midwood Chapels, Avenue M and Coney Island Avenue, Brooklyn. He will be misse
 THRUSH-William Tonnele, Jr. age 80, a retired printer died at his home in NYC on July 8, 1997 after a long struggle with cancer. Survived by wife Hanne, children Robin, William III, Duke, and Poppy, sister Eugenie, brother Donald & grandsons Nicholas and William. He was a longtime Westport,
 WEINBERG-Jay, born September 18, 1931, died July 8, 1997. Wonderful husband to Fay; devoted and loving father to Lorraine and Steve Goldsmith and Barbara Weinberg. Doting Zaydie to Jonathan, Zachary and Cara Goldsmith. Survivor of Auschwitz, a true Zionist who loved and believed in Israel. 
 ZWERLING-Irving. We express our sincere condolences to the family of Irving Zwerling and his neighbors at our long-time client, Madison at 84th Tenants Corp. We will miss Irv's wit, wisdom, boundless drive, and selfless devotion to improve the lives of his neighbors in the cooperative apart
 Edwin Diamond, an author, teacher and journalist whose career spanned more than 45 years and ranged from covering the space age to critiquing the news media, died yesterday afternoon at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Adelina.
 Franklin M. Heller, who directed the long-running television quiz show ''What's My Line?'' and many other dramatic and musical programs, died yesterday at Evergreen Woods, a retirement community in North Branford, Conn. He was 85. Mr. Heller began his career in the theater, taking u
 Harold Epstein, the elder statesman of the horticultural world, who invariably insisted that gardening was just a hobby but whose one-and-a-half-acre site in Larchmont, N.Y., contained a collection matched by few other American gardeners, died at his home on Tuesday. He was 94. His 
 Max E. Youngstein, a film producer and Hollywood executive who had a principal role in a 1950's financial rescue of United Artists, the legendary movie company, died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84. As head of production and marketing for United Artists from 1951 to 19
 AGRESS-William L. Brother of Fay Corwin, beloved uncle of Carole Corwin of North Carolina and Stan Corwin of California. Also survived by several great nieces and nephews. He helped establish the Maternity Wing at Mt. Sinai Hospital, where he served as Administrator. Services today, July 11
 FOWLER-Anderson. Age 85, died on Thursday, July 10, 1997. Born in NYC, was a life resident of Gladstone, N.J. Graduate of St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H., Princeton University, '35, member of the Ivy Club. Served as captain in 1st Calvary in Pacific Theatre, '42-'45. Master of the Essex Fo
 HELLER-Franklin M. Age 85, of North Branford, CT., formerly of Stamford, CT., husband of the late Elizabeth Phillips Heller, died July 8, 1997. Born in Dover, New Jersey on September 15, 1911, he was for seventeen years the director of the television show ''What's My Line''. In a television
 JAFFE-Sandra L. The partners, associates and staff of Cooperman Levitt Winikoff Lester & Newman, P.C., extend sincere sympathy to their colleague Harris S. Jaffe on the loss of his beloved wife, Sandra L. Jaffe. May the family be spared further sorrow.       
 JIRAK-Mary. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation note with sorrow the passing of Mary Jirak, beloved mother-in-law of Jeff Gural, an esteemed member of our Real Estate Executive Committee. Jeff and his father, Aaron Gural, are long-standing volunteers. Aaron is past chairman of our Re
 KURALT-Charles, in New York on the 4th of July. Goodbye Charlie. We love you. Ellen and Arthur KURALT-Charles. The Beatrice Inn family and its loyal clientele will forever miss his warmth and friendliness. Ciao, Charlie.       
 WELCH-Dr. William Joseph. On July 10, 1997. Beloved husband of Louise. Father of Anne Louise. Stepfather of Martha Welch de Llosa and Dr. Richard S. Crampton. Grandfather of Cordelia, Patricia Louise, Suzanna Louise, Thalia, Thomas William Butler and Luis Fernando. Uncle of Tony, Timothy, M
 Tony Thomas, a Hollywood chronicler and biographer, died on Tuesday  at Providence St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank in Los Angeles. He was 69 and lived in Burbank. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Jon Burlingame, a family friend. Mr. Thomas was the author
 Edwin Diamond, an author, teacher and journalist whose career spanned more than 45 years and ranged from covering the space age to critiquing the news media, died Thursday afternoon at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Adelina. 
 James C. Hill, former deputy director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, died on June 26 in Richmond, where he had undergone surgery for a liver ailment. He was 56 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications of his surgery, his family said.       
 Dr. Karl Gunther Kessler, a physicist and former associate director for international and academic affairs at the National Institute of Standards and Technology, died on Monday in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was a heart attack, family members said.      
 Dr. William J. Welch, who practiced internal medicine and cardiology for many years in New York City  and who was the former host of a radio advice program, died on Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was lun
 Guy Murchie, an author, artist and aviator, died on Tuesday at a convalescent hospital in Fullerton, Calif. He was 90. Mr. Murchie was a Chicago Tribune photographer, staff artist and reporter, serving as a war correspondent in England and Iceland  from 1940 to 1942. He was also a f
 Henry Salvatori, an Italian-born geophysicist who founded an international oil exploration company and used his fortune to sponsor Los Angeles institutions and conservative causes, like the political career of Ronald Reagan, died last Sunday at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica. He 
 Joseph Edwin Finley, a labor lawyer and union counsel who also wrote about labor and published a novel, died Tuesday at his home in Baltimore. He was 77. The cause was complications from a severe injury suffered in a fall at home, said his wife, Dr. Joanne Otte Finley. Mr. F
 ASHEIM-Lester, 83, died July 1 in Chapel Hill, NC. Retired William Rand Kenan, Jr., Professor at the School of Information and Library Science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Dr. Asheim had also served on the faculty and as Dean of the Graduate Library School of the Univ
 DIETZ-Harold. Beloved husband of Lynne for 50 years. Devoted father of Ken and Debbie and Laurie Dietz, Marcie and Stuart Lipsett. Adoring Poppa of Matthew, Max and Jake. Loved by all his friends. Hal, you left us much too quickly. Your spirit, humor and humanity inspired everyone who knew 
 FOWLER-Anderson. Age 85, died on Thursday, July 10, 1997. Born in NYC, was a life resident of Gladstone, N.J. Graduate of St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H., Princeton University, '35, member of the Ivy Club. Served as captain in 1st Calvary in Pacific Theatre, '42-'45. Master of the Essex Fo
 JIRAK-Mary. On behalf of our entire organization it is with profound sorrow that we express our sincere condolences to our Vice Chairman, Jeff Gural and his wife Paula Jirak Gural on the untimely loss of Paula's dear mother Mary. We also wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy to the rest of 
 SEMON-Gerard. Died July 11, 1997 at age 84. His artist management agency furthered the careers of many prominent opera singers, including Placido Domingo. He is survived by his daughter, Jacqueline Benjamin of Port Orange, FL, his granddaughers, Alison and Cheryl Clifford, and his brother, 
 TOWER-John L. 81, a long time Ridgefield resident and retired International Paper Company executive died Wednesday at Laurelwood Care Center in Ridgefield. Mr. Tower of 3 Peaceable Hill Road, Ridgefield was the husband of Shirley Leake Tower. Born in Auburndale, Massachusetts on April 2, 19
 Ron Andersen, a leading personality in the world of bridge, died on July 3 at North-West Hospital in Chicago. He was 56. While officiating as chief commentator at the European Bridge Championships in Italy last month, he suffered two strokes associated with kidney failure, said his 
 Frank R. Parker, a civil-rights lawyer who was an authority on voting-rights law, died on Thursday at a hospital in Lexington, Va. He was 57 and lived in Lexington. The cause was complications from an aortic aneurysm, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Parker was a visiting 
 BERLINER-Rabbi Albert. On July 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Atara, Shira & Gary Pickholz and Elana and Ira Tepler. Loving brother of Edith Bane and doting grandfather. He devoted his life to Jewish education and to the inculcation of Torah values. Greatly admired f
 FINEBERG-Harry. Fur Manufacturer, previously of Fink and Fineberg, Incorporated, Seventh Avenue, passed away of a heart attack while golfing on Thursday, July 10, in Lake Worth, Florida. He is survived by daughters Jean and Ellen Fineberg, sister Mrs. Estelle Schaefer, and brothers Charles 
 JOHNSON-Robert J. Of Chatham, NJ. Formerly of Locust Valley, NY, and Floral Park, NY, on July 12, 1997. Survived by his wife Virginia; his sons Robert of Denver, CO, Douglas of Chatham, NJ, and Christopher and his wife Mary of Franklin, MA. Beloved Papa to his grandsons Christopher, Timothy
 LOCKE-Jerome B. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Peter and Karen Locke, and Patricia and Salvo Infantino. Adored grandfather of Damian, Dorian, Taylor, Julian and Dexter. Survived by his sisters Sylvia and Constance. Shiva will be observed at the Infantino residence. Services toda
 SILVERMAN-Norman. Administrative Law Judge, formerly Assistant DA, on July 11, 1997. Cherished husband of Beverly. Loving father of Andrew and Therese. Dear brother of Harriet Garber. He will be loved forever in eternity. Services Monday, 11 AM, at The Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, 312 Coney 
 Dr. Lowell E. Bellin, a specialist in public health who served as New York City's chief health officer under Mayor Abraham D. Beame, died yesterday at his home in East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was 68. His family said his death was caused by complications of advanced Parkinson's diseas
 BELLIN-Lowell E., M.D. New York Community Hospital mourns the loss of Lowell E. Bellin, M.D., Physician, New York City Commissioner of Health, New York City Health Services Administrator, Chairman of the Division of Health Services Administration at Columbia University School of Public Heal
 BELLIN-Lowell, M.D. The President and the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Lowell Bellin, beloved father of Eran Bellin, M.D., our esteemed colleague and Director of Medical Services at Rikers Island Health Services. A highly respected p
 FINGEROTH-Ethan Shepard.Suddenly on July 13, 1997. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Stephanie, Justin and Michael. Loving son of Blanche and the late cantor Robert. Dear brother of James and Patrick and Daniel and Jaclyn. Loving uncle of Robert. Dear brother-in-law of Arlene Ge
 FREIMAN-Gerald, MD. He lived with love and gave so much of it. Beloved husband of Laura. Loving father of Gwenne, Karan and Abbe and father-in law of John, Ken and Jody. Devoted grandfather of Sara, Christopher, Heather, Sam and Brandon. Cherished brother of Diane Polak. Dear friend and phy
 JOHNSON-Robert J. Of Chatham, New Jersey. Formerly of Locust Valley, NY, and Floral Park, NY, on July 12, 1997. Survived by his wife Virginia; his sons Robert of Denver, CO, Douglas of Chatham, New Jersey, and Christopher and his wife Mary of Franklin, Mass. Beloved Papa to his grandsons Ch
 KINNEMAN-F. Neal, 68. Died at his home in Hanover, PA., on July 6, 1997. Formerly of Boston, New York and Denver. A dear friend has gone and will be missed more than words can say. Stuart Hupp       
 LASKER-Edward. Philip Morris Companies Inc. notes with sorrow the death July 11, 1997, of retired Philip Morris Director Edward Lasker. Mr. Lasker served with distinction on the Philip Morris Companies Inc. Board of Directors from 1961 to 1983. During his years on the Board, Philip Morris b
 MUFSON-Marvin, M.D., 68, of Edison, NJ. Husband of the late Ann Mufson. Survived by his children, Steven and Agnes, Daniel, and Laura and Bennett; his sister, Estelle Sheiman; and 4 grandchildren, Claire, Natalie, Joshua, and Nina. He was a graduate of Princeton University & Columbia Univer
 PALOMBI-Edward (''Russ''), 78. Formerly of NYC and Albany. Died Saturday, July 12, 1997 at his home in Trumansburg, New York.       
 SCALLON-Francis X. July 13, 1997 in Rochester, NY. He is survived by his wife, Carmen Nivia Scallon; son, Frank X. Scallon; daughter, Nivia Milena Scallon; brothers, Richard (Judy) Scallon of Long Island, Theodore (Sally) Scallon of Syracuse; sisters, Mary Jane (Richard) Farrell of PA, Kath
 SILVERMAN-The Honorable Norman. The New York Social Security Bar Association notes with sorrow the passing of The Honorable Norman Silverman, Social Security Administrative Law Judge. We convey our sympathies to his family. David Kuznicki, President Ted Shapiro, Vice President Richard P. Mo
 SIMEONE-Octavius (Ted). On July 13, 1997, age 86. Retired Chief Procurement GSA. Survived by his wife Roslyn.       
 WALLACE-Kenneth G. On July 13, 1997, of Bayside, NY. Retired Professor of Humanities, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn. Survived by his friend Franklin J. Veit and his loving family in South Portland, Me. Reposing at Lloyd Funeral Home, 39th Ave at 215th St, Bayside, Tuesday and Wednesday, 3-5 and
 WEINER-Harry. On July 13, 1997. An innovator in the housewares industry and an advisor to New York City entrepreneurs. Immigrated to New York City in 1910 from Poland. In 1932, founded General Slicing Machine Company in Brooklyn, where he was responsible for award-winning and patented appli
 WEISS-Wilmer, in San Francisco, CA., on July 11, 1997 at age 71. A noted fashion retail executive for over 50 years, most recently with I. Magnin in San Francisco, CA., a division of Federated/Macy's Department Stores. He is survived by his life long partner Leonard Strahl; uncle of Susan W
 ZIMMERMAN-Robert Lloyd. Beloved husband of Beverly. Loving father of Donna and Tom Lifland. Adored grandfather of Jessica and Michael. Dear uncle. Services ''Boulevard - Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, 11:30am Tuesday. Donations in his memory may be made to NYU Medical Center, Divi
 Francois Furet, a prominent historian who challenged the popular Marxist interpretation of the French Revolution and reshaped French thinking about subsequent events, died on Saturday in a hospital in Toulouse. He was 70. He had received a head injury while playing tennis a few days
 Gianni Versace, the man who brought rock, art, sexuality and brilliant color into contemporary fashion, was shot to death yesterday outside his home in Miami Beach. He was 50. It is difficult to imagine another designer whose death would drain more life from the industry, an industr
 Glenn Dale Wilburn, who lost his two grandsons in the Oklahoma City bombing and led a successful campaign to set up a local grand jury to investigate the crime, died yesterday morning at his home in Oklahoma City. He was 46. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his son, Bart Wilburn of 
 BELLIN-Lowell. On behalf of our entire organization, it is with profound sorrow that we mourn the passing of our foundling board member, former Treasurer and Chair of the Ambulatory Care Department. He was a colleague, mentor and friend to all had the privilege to know him. His profound wis
 BLOOMFIELD-Bernard M. The Officers and Board of Directors of the West Point Jewish Chapel Fund are greatly saddened by the loss of their dear friend and supporter, Bernard M. Bloomfield, a great American and a great patriot. Bernard was an early and ardent supporter of our Chapel at West Po
 BUESCHER-Klaus J., 68. Beloved husband of Ingrid and son of the late Wilhelm and Margarethe Buescher of Essen, Germany. Died peacefully at his home in Manhattan on June 27, 1997, of leukemia-related complications. He is survived by his deeply saddened wife Ingrid and brother-inlaw Ludwig Pa
 DIAMOND-Edwin. Dean Philip Furmanski and his colleagues at the faculty of Arts and Science at New York University mourn the passing of our respected friend and energetic teacher Edwin Diamond. He will be particularly missed by his fellow practitioners in the Department of Journalism and Mas
 FINGEROTH - Ethan Shepard. Suddenly on July 13, 1997. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Stephanie, Justin and Michael. Loving son of Blanche and the late Cantor Robert. Dear brother of James and Patricia and Daniel and Jaclyn. Loving uncle of Robert. Dear brother-in-law of Arlen
 FREIMAN-Gerald V., M.D. Officers and members of the Long Island Psychoanalytic Society mourn the passing of our esteemed and beloved colleague, teacher and friend, July 14, 1997. Our condolences to his family. FREIMAN-Gerald, M.D. Members of the NYU Psychoanalytic Institute mourn th
 FRUCHTER-Rachel. The Board and staff of Advocates for Children extend our sincerest condolences to our friend and colleague Norm Fruchter and his children Lev and Chenda on the untimely death of Rachel Fruchter. Galen Kirkland, Exec Director Joan A. Harrington, Assoc Dir       
 GOLDMAN-Stanley. Died suddenly after a short illness on July 14. Former president of Eagle Clothes Incorporated. Cherished husband of Nancy, beloved father of Casey, Shawn and Susan, Drew, son of the late Ben and Beatrice. Services on Wednesday, 1:15 P.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street 
 JACOBSEN-John Warburton, entered into rest July 12 in Shelton, CT. Born on March 12, 1912, in Montreal, he was a graduate of the Royal Military College and McGill University in Canada. In his life, he was a world traveler, engineer and successful businessman. John was dearly loved by his fa
 LASKER-Edward. Philip Morris Companies Inc. notes with sorrow the death July 11, 1997, of retired Philip Morris Director Edward Lasker. Mr. Lasker served with distinction on the Philip Morris Companies Inc. Board of Directors from 1961 to 1983. During his years on the Board, Philip Morris b
 NEMEROW-Bernard. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Benjamin Nemerow on the loss of his brother Bernard. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 SCHNEIDER-Allen C. On July 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Rosamond, loving father of Stephen and Rhoda and Beverly and Leonard Stuchiner, adored grandfather of Jeffrey, Richard, Bonnie, Robert and Michael and great grandfather of Sydney. Services Wednesday, 1 P.M., ''Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memo
 VERSACE-Gianni. Visual AIDS notes with deep sorrow the death of Gianni Versace and salutes his support for artists with HIV/AIDS. Barbara Hunt, Exec. Director Frank Moore, Archive Project Founding Member The Board of Directors       
 WEINER-Harry. The leadership of UJA-Federation of New York notes with sorrow the passing of Harry Weiner, beloved father of Walter H. Weiner, a generous supporter of UJA-Federation through its Banking and Finance Division. The family's long-standing commitment to the fields of medicine and 
 Samuel Brookner Gould, a visionary educator who fused 58 New York campuses into today's unified State University system, died Friday at Sarasota (Fla.) Memorial Hospital. He was 86 and had lived in Sarasota since his retirement in 1970. The cause was congestive heart failure, said h
 Douglas Huebler, a founder of the Conceptual Art movement, died on Saturday at his home in Truro, Mass. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Huebler was a member of an idealistic generation of artists, including Lawrence Weiner, Joseph Kosuth, Jan Dibbets, R
 Eugene C. Goossen, an art critic and former chairman of the art department at Hunter College, died on Monday at Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington, Vt.  Mr. Goossen, who lived in nearby Buskirk, N.Y., was 76. He died of pneumonia after a long illness, said his widow, 
 Miguel Najdorf, a flamboyant poet of the chess pieces who was one of the most celebrated grandmasters never to play for the world championship, died on July 4 in Malaga University Hospital in Malaga, Spain. He was 87 and a beloved figure in Buenos Aires. The cause was complications 
 COLLINS-Charles E. On July 13, 1997. Long time resident of Chelsea and proprietor of Chelsea Bath. Survived by his adored sister Suzanne, brother Dennis, companion Ronald Best and many friends. Memorials to God's Love We Deliver appreciated.       
 FURET-Francois. The Kantor family notes with great sorrow the untimely death of Francois Furet, an extraordinary, brilliant, warm member of our family. We will remember him always for his love, his wit and his wonderful generous spirit. Most of all, his deep devotion to Deborah and Charlott
 GOOSSEN-Eugene C. The Art Department of Hunter College, CUNY, notes with sadness the death on July 14, 1997 of its former Chairman, Professor Emeritus Eugene C. Goossen. His former colleagues and students extend their sympathy to the Goossen family.       
 HAMILTON-Charles III. (Chip) Lived honorably and died bravely of metastatic lung cancer on July 15 at age 23. Adored son of Charles and Diane Hamilton. Beloved brother of Cynthia, Brooks and Carolyn and Jim. Treasured nephew of Cynthia Armstrong and Elinor Mattes. Chip profoundly touched th
 KLEIN-Steve. The staff, students and families of PS 85X mourn the untimely passing of Steve Klein, teacher and guidance counselor at our school for 30 years. His caring and professionalisn have enriched the lives of generations of students. He will be profoundly missed by the entire PS 85 c
 LEMLE-Bob ''Clarence,'' on July 16, 1997. Beloved husband of Peggy, devoted father of Stuart and Marian, Russell and Patricia, Craig and Amy. Loving grandfather of Jonathan, Clifford, Tracey, Casey, Elise, Julia, and Kyle. Brother of Leo, and the late Daniel, Blanche Dreifus, Jeanette Levin
 LEVOVSKY-Morris, July 16, 1997, at New York Downtown Hospital. He was the former administrator of the New York State Liquor Authority. He is survived by a sister, Francis Levovsky of Bridgewater, New Jersey, and many nieces and nephews. Graveside service Thursday, July 17 at 2 PM, Shalom Ce
 SCHWARTZ-Robert J. Jr. On July 15th, after a heroic struggle with lymphoma. Beloved and loving husband of Gail Ross and father of Matthew, Michael and Alexandra. Devoted son of Beatrice and Robert, stepmother Josephine Martin, and mother-in-law Matilda Ross. We have been blessed to know, lo
 WEINER-Harry. The administration, faculty, students and boards of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with sorrow the death of Harry Weiner, beloved father of Walter Weiner, a staunch supporter of the Seminary and Jewish education. The JTS community extends condolences to the entire fami
 Winfred Lamar Godwin, who played a central role in advancing education in the South and shaping educational objectives for the year 2000, died last Friday at his home in Smyrna, Ga. He was 71. The cause was complications from supranuclear palsy, a form of paralysis, said Bracey Camp
 Rear Adm. Albert Girard Mumma, a naval engineer who commanded the Navy Department's Bureau of Ships in the 1950's as its nuclear power and missile program went full throttle, died on Tuesday at the Waverly Heights nursing home in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 91. Admiral Mumma, who retired f
 Arthur L. Liman, a masterly legal strategist who made his living representing both corporate tycoons and scalawags but made his public mark investigating pivotal events like the Iran-contra affair and the Attica prison uprising, died yesterday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 64 a
 DEWALD-Everett A. On July 16, 1997. Dearly beloved husband of Beatrice. Devoted uncle of Naomi Glass and Pauline Bodden. Sorely missed by his friends of W.H.I.R.P. Services private.       
 FRUCHTER-Rachel. The Board and staff of the Community Service Society (CSS) extend our sincere sympathy and condolences to our esteemed former Trustee Norman Fruchter and his family on the untimely death of his wife. Rachel Fruchter was a force for good in her community and her contribution
 GELARDIN-Hugo J., July 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Cordula. Loving father of Christine Gelardin and Nicole Berlin. Adoring grandfather of Alexander, Nicholas, Emily, Charles, Isabella and Jacques. Dear brother of the late Albert J. Gelardin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 GOLDBERG-Dr. Morris A., on July 16, 1997. Beloved husband of Dr Rose Koblenz. Loving father of Eleanor Dreyfus, Nathaniel Goldberg and Dr. Norma Dreyfus. Dear brother of Anna Wagman, Harry Goldberg and the late Betty Rosen and Goldie Cohen. Adored grandfather of 9 grandchildren and 8 great 
 LEMLE-Bob ''Clarence,'' on July 16, 1997. Beloved husband of Peggy, devoted father of Stuart and Marian, Russell and Patricia, Craig and Amy. Loving grandfather of Jonathan, Clifford, Tracey, Casey, Elise, Julia, and Kyle. Brother of Leo, and the late Daniel, Blanche Dreifus, Jeanette Levin
 LIMAN-Arthur L. Survived by his loving family. Services at 12 noon today, Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 East 87th Street, New York. Contributions to Yale Law School Arthur L. Liman Fund for Public Interest, Box 208-215, New Haven, CT. 06520, Harvard University Recording Secretary's Office, 124 
 PEPPER-Elias, on July 16th, 1997. Beloved son of Minerva (deceased), brother to Beatrice, and kin to all who loved him. Family will receive friends Friday 2-6 and Saturday 7-9 P.M., with funeral service on Sunday, 11 A.M., at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Interment wi
 ROBERTS-Mitchell S., 9/7/13-7/17/ '97. A gentle man and a gentleman has succumbed after a long and brave battle. Pre-deceased by his loving wife, Irma. Varied career included instructor at CCNY and Director of AMREP Corp. Already missed by surviving children, Seth and Ronna and Ross; grandc
 SCHLEJEN-Heinz (Henry). The Officers and Staff of Cromwell Advertising Agency announce with deep sorrow the untimely passing of our dear colleague. He will be greatly missed. Our condolences to his wife Joyce, daughter Nancy and the entire family.       
 SCHWARTZ-Robert J. The Board of the Directors of the International Association of Financial Engineers (IAFE) mourns the passing of our founder, chairman and dear friend-Bob Schwartz. Bob was a guiding light in the field of Financial Engineering. He will be sorely missed, both for his contri
 TRETTER-Victor. The Board of Trustees and Administration of the New York College of Podiatric Medicine and the foot clinics of New York are saddened to learn of the passing of Mr. Victor Tretter, one of our distinguished board members. Mr. Tretter served the college and clinics for many yea
 Thomas Mellon Evans Sr., a financier who was one of Wall Street's most feared corporate raiders in the 1950's and 1960's and later the breeder of champion thoroughbred horses, including a Kentucky Derby winner, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause of death w
 Dr. Eugene Merle Shoemaker, who, with his wife, Carolyn, held a world record for the number of comets discovered, was killed yesterday  in a car accident near Alice Springs, Australia. Mrs. Shoemaker suffered broken bones and was hospitalized. Dr. Shoemaker was 69 and lived in Flagstaff, Ar
 BELLIN-Lowell. The Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at NYU extends its sincere condolences to the family of Dr. Lowell Bellin. Dr. Bellin taught for many years in our Health Policy and Management Program, and his advice and support will be missed. Jo Ivey Boufford, Dean   
 FARR-Dr. Lee Edward, one of the nation's preeminent physicians in nuclear and environmental medicine, died in Walnut Creek, CA on July 16, 1997 of cancer. A native of Albuquerque, New Mexico, Dr. Farr was born on October 13, 1907, the only child of Edward and Mabel Farr. He was a graduate o
 GOTTLIEB-Aaron. The Auxiliary of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset mourns the passing of a dedicated member and gratefully recognizes his caring commitment to the hospital. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family. Hilary Chilton, Auxiliary President North Shore Universi
 HAYS-Robert McCague. The Brooklyn Botanic Garden is deeply saddened by the death of Robert McCague Hays, a member of the Garden staff for more than ten years. During his years of service, Robert's talent & dedication to the Garden community were a shining example to his colleagues. Our thou
 LIMAN-Arthur L. The Board of Directors and staff of the Legal Action Center mourn with deep sorrow the passing of Arthur L. Liman, mensch, mentor, warrior for justice and our founding and only Chairman. Under his dedicated leadership for 25 years, the Center has fought discrimination at eve
 MALTZ-Douglas, D. Age 77. On July 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Myrna, loving father of Dean and Gary Maltz. Also survived by his grandchildren Alexandra, Daniel and Eric Maltz. Douglas was devoted to his family. We will miss him greatly. Graveside service July 20, 1:30 PM, Beth Israel Memor
 MEADE-Christopher, An Attorney and Real Estate Broker with Daniel Gail Realty of Port Washington died suddenly on July 17, 1997, at the age of 45. Born and raised in Manhasset where he lived most of his life. He graduated from Lasalle Military Academy in Oakdale, L.I. He was also a graduate
 MILONE-Salvatore A., age 89, died July 17, 1997 at Rockville Centre, NY. Born in Rockville Centre on July 19, 1907, he was the son of Dominick and Elisa (nee Coppola) Milone. In 1935 he married the former Margaret Annunziato who died in 1966. In 1969 he married the former Maria Pennisi who 
 MOSCOWITZ-Edwin, 70, of West Orange, N.J., and Tamarac, FL., died July 11. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he also lived n North Woodmere, NY. Mr. Moscowitz was president of Peerless Umbrella Company in Harrison, NJ. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. He was a long-time member of Temple 
 PEPPER-Elias, on July 16th, 1997. Beloved son of Minerva (deceased), brother to Beatrice, and kin to all who loved him. Family will receive friends Friday 2-6 and Saturday 7-9 P.M., with funeral service on Sunday, 11 A.M., at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Interment wi
 ROSHKIND-Paul, Capt. of Hastings-On-Hudson, NY. Beloved husband of the late Bernice Rosenhaus Roshkind, devoted father of Jane R. Kusel and Alice R. Van Leer, cherished father-in-law of Dr. Donald R. Kusel and Ivan L. Van Leer, adored grandfather of Amy, Alex, Dan, and Ian. Services 1 p.m. 
 SCHWARTZ-Robert J. The Board of Directors, Members and Staff of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association mourn the passing of our friend, colleague and former Director. His many contributions to the Association included serving as a Director for three terms, acting Executive Dire
 VALENSI-Quentin J. The Faculty of New York University School of Medicine and of the Department of Pathology in particular deeply mourn the loss of Quentin J. Valensi, M.D., age 71 on Wednesday, July 16, 1997. Dr Valensi joined NYU Medical Center in 1966 as an Assistant Professor of Patholog
 WEAVER-Robert C. Ph.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of the Honorable Robert C. Weaver Ph.D., who served as our Trustee for more than 28 years. A dedicated public servant who was Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President
 Dr. Robert C. Weaver, the first Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the first black person appointed to the Cabinet, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Dr. Weaver was also one of the original directors of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was 
 Carl Maxey, a scrappy civil rights lawyer credited with virtually singlehandedly desegregating much of the inland Northwest, took his life on Thursday, the police said in Spokane, Wash., where he had long been known as the city's leading criminal defense attorney and a pre-eminent civic lea
 Daniel I. Sargent, the founder of the corporate finance department of Salomon Brothers and later a managing director of the firm as well as the head of its credit and business practice committee, died on Thursday at his home in North Salem, N.Y. He was 72 years old and had been suff
 Dr. Thomas H. Meikle Jr., a former dean of the Cornell University Medical College and retired president of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, both in New York, died yesterday at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 68. The cause was cancer, his family said. During his career, which began 
 Leo Gruliow, who turned a chance Depression-era job as a Moscow journalist into a cold war career translating Soviet periodicals into English, died on July 13 in a hospice near his home in Columbus, Ohio. He was 84. For someone whose education did not go beyond high school, Mr. Grul
 FAND-Theodore I., Ph.D., chemist, age 81 on July 8, 1997 in Morristown, N.J. Beloved husband of Helen Hirsh for fifty-five years, loving and devoted father of Rita, Marlene, and the late Steven, dear brother of Anne Gold and the late Dr. Max Fand. Born in Brooklyn. Dr. Fand received his B.S
 FISHMAN-Abraham. On July 18, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Bernice, dear brother of Sidney Fishman, Rose Satin and the late Harriet Firestone, Carl Fishman, and Ruth Sternberg. Loving uncle of Marsha and Sheldon Gordon, June and Dr. Michael Firestone, Barbara and Marvin Sherman, Rosemar
 FOLEY-John Edward. Brewer, ME. J. Edward Foley, 72, died July 16, 1997 in Brewer. He was born in Bangor, May 14, 1925. The son of J. Edward and Freda Weston Foley. Survivors include his wife Eileen; sons James E. Foley, NYC and Newport, RI, Mark A. Foley, Brewer; daughters Diana J. Rose, Wa
 GELARDIN-Hugo J., July 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Cordula. Loving father of Christine Gelardin and Nicole Berlin. Adoring grandfather of Alexander, Nicholas, Emily, Charles, Isabella and Jacques. Dear brother of the late Albert J. Gelardin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 KLEIER-Jay. In his 94th year. Loving husband of Elise, devoted father of Ian and Michele Kleier and Terri and Robert Berliner. Beloved grandfather of David, Brian, Samantha, Sabrina and Jonathan. Beloved great grandfather of Isaak, Tessa and Benjamin. Loving brother of Joseph.       
 KRAININ-David A., 89, died Sat., July 12, Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband, father and brother, he is survived by his wife of sixty-three years, Anne Wineblatt Krainin, sons Julian & Lewis and families, and brother Dr. Philip Krainin. Memorial service 10 A.M., Sunday, July 20, at Temple Beth
 LIMAN-Arthur L. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Arthur Liman, a giant in the New York legal world. He and his wife, Ellen, have long been devoted friends & generous supporters of UJA-Federation, and leaders in the New York community. A p
 MILONE-Salvatore A., age 89, died July 17, 1997 at Rockville Centre, NY. Born in Rockville Centre on July 19, 1907, he was the son of Dominick and Elisa (nee Coppola) Milone. In 1935 he married the former Margaret Annunziato who died in 1966. In 1969 he married the former Maria Pennisi who 
 MOSCOWITZ-Edwin, 70, of West Orange, N.J., and Tamarac, FL., died July 11. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he also lived n North Woodmere, NY. Mr. Moscowitz was president of Peerless Umbrella Company in Harrison, NJ. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. He was a long-time member of Temple 
 ROSNER-Dr. Norman L., DDS. 80, of Tamarac, Florida, passed away on July 10, 1997. Dr. Rosner was born in New York City in 1917. He was a 1938 graduate of NYU and of the Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery in 1942. Dr. Rosner served four and a half years during World War II
 SARGENT-Daniel, July 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Elaine Leopold Sargent, father of Susan Sargent, Alex Sargent, John P. Sargent, David W. Sargent, Joan L. Sargent and Mark A. Sargent. Stepfather of John Leopold, and Stephen Leopold. Survived by ten grandchildren. Funeral service, Monday, J
 SCHAAD-John Thomas. Of Old Tappan, N.J. on July 11, 1997. Beloved husband of Joan (nee Perry). Loving father of Nancy Marie, Gloria May and Lorraine Marian. Devoted and cherished grandfather of Christopher Daniel. Before retiring in 1992, Mr. Schaad was employed by The New York Times. A U.S
 SCHROEDER-John ''Jack'' Power, 78, of South Bristol, Maine. on Tuesday, July 15. A retired Vice Chairman of J. P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated, and a former director of Johns-Manville and Phelps Dodge. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Isabelle, daughters Susan Phelan, Gay Marshall, and
 SCHWARTZ-Robert J. Jr. On July 15th, after a heroic struggle with lymphoma. Beloved and loving husband of Gail Ross and father of Matthew, Michael and Alexandra. Devoted son of Beatrice and Robert, stepmother Josephine Martin, and mother-in-law Matilda Ross. We have been blessed to know, lo
 WEAVER-Robert. The Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at NYU mourns the passing of Dr. Robert C. Weaver, one of the nation's most distinguished public servants. His knowledge and understanding of public policy at all levels of government inspired our faculty and students. We
 Robert McCague Hays, the passionate plant propagator of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died Thursday at New York University Hospital. He was 38. He lived in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and died of kidney failure after a 12-year struggle with AIDS, said Judy Zuk, the president of the Brooklyn
 Sir James Goldsmith, a flamboyant British-French financier who maintained three families, homes in four countries and used his billions to fight the European Union, died Friday in Spain, a spokesman said. He was 64. Sir James, who had battled pancreatic cancer for four years, died o
 Zane Klein, general counsel of Guardsmark Inc., a Memphis-based national security and investigative service, died on June 27 after collapsing in his office in Memphis. He was 60 and had lived in Memphis since moving from Manhattan in 1993. The company said the cause was thought to b
 Archie E. Albright, one of the first senior corporate managers recruited by Wall Street in the bull markets of the 1960's, died Tuesday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 76. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Albright worked for several investment banking 
 Joe Hauser, the only man in the history of organized baseball to have twice hit more than 60 home runs in a season, died on July 11 in Sheboygan, Wis. He was 98. As a minor leaguer, Hauser hit 63 home runs for the Baltimore Orioles of the International League in 1930 and 69 homers f
 Marvin J. Sonosky, a Washington lawyer who championed the cause of the American Indian throughout his long career, died on Wednesday at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. An Alexandria resident, he was 88. The cause was heart failure, his law firm reported. Until his death, he
 DESCHAMPS-Sidney. 88. A retired Patent Lawyer and partner of Ladas & Parry. Died on July 19, 1997 in Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by his wife of 65 years Kathleen; his daughter Diane Hockstader; his grandchildren Avery and Lee Hockstader and Kalen Holliday; a great-granddaughter Pierson H
 MAZUR-Philip. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 MEIKLE-Thomas H., Jr., M.D. On behalf of the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family we extend our deepest sympathies over the death of our distinguished colleague, Thomas H. Meikle, Jr., M.D. To his wife, Jacqueline Winterkorn, M.D., his family and all his loved ones, we offer our heartfe
 PLATOVSKY-Andrew. Of NYC. Beloved son of Florence and brother of Sandy and David. Uncle of Amanda and Ryan. Died at home July 17. Reposing Redden Funeral Home, 325 West 14 Street, NYC, Tuesday 5-9 PM. Memorial service Wednesday, 9:30 AM, St. Andrew's Church, north side of the Municipal Buil
 POTTS-George H. In joining so many friends who mourn the loss of dear George, we express our deep sympathies to his devoted companion, Gary, and to the loving and supportive Potts family. Congregation B'Nai Olam, Fire Island Pines       
 SARGENT-Daniel, July 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Elaine Leopold Sargent, father of Susan Sargent, Alex Sargent, John P. Sargent, David W. Sargent, Joan L. Sargent and Mark A. Sargent. Stepfather of John Leopold, and Stephen Leopold. Survived by ten grandchildren. Funeral service, Monday, J
 SCHNEIDER-Bernard. My brother, a gentle guy, has died. When young, my children thought of him as their most fun uncle. He was husband to Peggy (Pauline) for over 55 years, father of Anne (professional name Anna Sequoia), father of Steven and his wife Rosalie, grandfather of Hans and Anne Ma
 TURNER-Dr. Lee W., 100, in Lake Wales, FL, on July 19, 1997. Philanthropist and retired dentist, he practiced in the New York Stock Exchange Building for 48 years. Survived by his beloved wife Barbara Ballard Turner.       
 WEAVER-Robert C. The entire Baruch College community mourns the passing of its distinguished past President, Dr. Robert C. Weaver. Dr. Weaver will long be remembered as a distinguished public servant, having always used his keen intellect and common sense to attack complex social problems. 
 Stuart Jewell, a celebrated cinematographer who was so enthralled with natural wonders that he pursued them from sunrise to sunset for half a century, died on July 13 at his home in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 84 and best known for his time-lapse photography in Walt Disney's landmark nature m
 Dr. Thomas H. Meikle Jr., a former dean of the Cornell University Medical College and retired president of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, both in New York, died yesterday at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 68. The cause was cancer, his family said. During his career, whic
 Alf Engen, who won 16 United States skiing titles, half in ski jumping, and who helped design more than 30 American ski areas, died Sunday in Cottonwood Hospital in Salt Lake City. He was 88. The best-known ski areas that he helped design were Sun Valley, Idaho; Alta, Utah, and Jack
 The Right Rev. John Elbridge Hines, the 22d Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church who guided the denomination through the social turmoil of the 1960's and helped open its clerical ranks to women and blacks, died on Saturday in Austin, Tex. He was 86 and had moved to Austin from North Car
 CAINE-Max. On July 21, 1997. Longtime member of the Commercial Law League. Survived by his wife, Marilyn, and his daughter, Cathy and many loved ones. Services on Tuesday, 11:00 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue       
 CLIMENKO-Jesse. On July 20, in New Milford, in his 94th year. Services private. Contributions in his memory to New Milford Hospital, 21 Elm Street, New Milford, Conn. 06776, or City Harvest, Inc., 159 W. 25th St., 10th Floor, NY, NY 10001. CLIMENKO-Jesse. The President of Montefiore
 DESCHAMPS-Sidney. 88. A retired Patent Lawyer and partner of Ladas & Parry. Died on July 19, 1997 in Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by his wife of 65 years Kathleen; his daughter Diane Hockstader; his grandchildren Avery and Lee Hockstader and Kalen Holliday; a great-granddaughter Pierson H
 EISENBERG-Irving, on July 20, 1997. A caring and loving man to his family and friends and benevolent to all humanity. He will be deeply missed and always remembered. Beloved husband of Ina and the late Esther. Devoted father of David and daughter-inlaw Sonia and stepfather of Ellen Lane and
 KOPPELMAN-Ruth. The Board of Directors and Administration of the Gurwin Jewish Senior Residences extend their heartfelt condolences to Charles Koppelman and his family on the passing of his mother, Ruth Koppelman. Charles' devotion to his parents was illustrated most profoundly when he help
 LIMAN-Arthur. The board of trustees and staff of The Museum of Television and Radio mourn the loss of our esteemed board member. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Frank A. Bennack, Jr., Chairman Robert M. Batscha, President The Museum of Television and Radio LIMAN-Art
 MEIKLE-Thomas Harry, Jr. M.D. Of Roxbury, CT. Former dean of Cornell University Medical College. On July 19, 1997. Public memorial gathering at 3 PM Sunday, July 27 at the Roxbury Congregational Church Fellowship Hall, 24 Church St, Roxbury, CT. In lieu of flowers contributions to Roxbury C
 NAGLER-Robert. Of Quogue, NY and Santa Barbara, CA. On July 15, 1997. Survived by his wife Ellen; daughter Hilary, son Adam; aunts; cousins; and a world of friends. A memorial service will be held at the Nagler family home in Quogue at 11 AM, Friday, July 25. In lieu of flowers the family w
 PEPPERELL-Gerald V.S., on March 15, 1915 to July 15, 1997, Marine Insurance Executive. Born and educated in Britain, Gerald Pepperell graduated from the University of London. He served in the British Army from 1939 to 1946, rising to the rank of Major and was awarded the Territorial Decorat
 SILVERMAN-Michael S., on July 20, 1997. Retired Tech Sgt., member of USAF and 105th Air Lift Wing of the N.Y. Air National Guard. Loving husband and best friend of Linda. Loyal and devoted friend to many. Funeral services Tuesday, 10 AM, at Riverdale-onHudson Funeral Home, 6110 Riverdale Av
 VARGA-Joseph G. My father, beloved husband of Gay for 52 years and truly caring father to Grant and me, died on July 16, 1997 in Spring Lake, New Jersey. He savored and enjoyed every second of his 79 years and anyone who ever met him was touched by and never forgot him. He was Senior Vice P
 WEAVER-Robert C., Ph.D. The former Board members and staff who served with Dr. Weaver at the N.Y.C. Conciliation and Appeals Board during the years 1974-1984 wish to express our deep sorrow at his passing. He was an outstanding member of the Board for ten years. His dedication and contribut
 Raymond H. Herzog, former chairman of the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, died July 12 at his home in Pine Tree Hills, Minn. He was 81. The cause of death was cancer, according to a statement from the company. Mr. Herzog retired from 3M in 1980 after nearly 40 years of s
 William Reynolds, a deft and meticulous Hollywood film editor who won Academy Awards for ''The Sound of Music'' and ''The Sting,'' died on July 16 in South Pasadena, Calif. He was 87. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Reynolds was a versatile editor, h
 Bruno Zehnder, an adventurous Swiss photographer best known for his striking images of penguins and other wildlife, died earlier this month when he lost his way in a blizzard while trying to return to the Russian base at Mirnyy, Antarctica. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Zehn
 Jerome Francis Cantwell, an aerospace and military industry analyst, died on July 5 at his home in East Quogue, N.Y. He was 52. The cause was a brain tumor, said his wife, Josephine Cantwell. Mr. Cantwell, who spent his entire career in the aerospace and military industry, f
 ASHWORTH-Eric C., 39, died on Sunday, July 20 at his home in NY City. He grew up in Bronxville, NY and attended Tufts University and University of California at Berkeley. As partner at literary agency Donadio & Ashworth, he became known for his extraordinary ability to discover and nurture 
 DEMAIO-John. With sincere condolences from Larry and Beverly Rosenberg of Rancho Santa Fe and all his friends at Rosenberg, Minc & Armstrong.       
 EISENBERG-Irving, on July 20, 1997. A caring and loving man to his family and friends and benevolent to all humanity. He will be deeply missed and always remembered. Beloved husband of Ina and the late Esther. Devoted father of David and daughter-inlaw Sonia and stepfather of Ellen Lane and
 GOLDING-Samuel. The Board of Directors, Board of Education, Faculty and Students of The Hebrew Academy of Nassau County (HANC) mourn the loss Monday, July 21, of long time friend, Samuel Golding-Shmuel Ben Yosef. An attorney at law, intellect, philanthropist, honorary member of The HANC Boa
 KIND-Samuel M., 68, died Sunday, July 13, 1997 at Bowman Gray Hospital in Winston-Salem, NC. He was born and raised in Trenton, NJ, and retired to Hendersonville, NC in 1994. He was the son of the late Leo Kind & Claire Sugarman Kind, of Trenton, New Jersey. Sam was preceded in death by his
 LESSER-Murray C., 89. Retired President of Goldfield Towel Supply. Died at home in Long Boat Key, Florida on July 11, 1997. He is survived by Marjory, his wife of fifty-five years and his son, Leonard, his daughter Dee Clayman, his grandchildren Adam and Jon Lesser and Gregory and Thomas Cl
 LIMAN-Arthur. We will always be grateful to Arthur Liman who served with grace and vision as our counsel from 1979 to 1983. His wisdom and equanimity at an important period in the college's history contributed immeasurably to our goals and continued growth. Board of Trustees American Colleg
 MIEKLE-Thomas H., Jr., MD. The entire staff of North Shore University Hospital was deeply saddened by the passing of Thomas H. Miekle, Jr., MD, a good friend and strong supporter of the hospital. As the former Dean of Cornell University Medical College, Dr. Miekle's many achievements in med
 ORNS-Josef. On July 20, 1997. Dear husband, father, grandfather and friend. Services Sunday, July 27, 4 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street. ORNS-Joseph. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Fria
 RISLEY-William H., 80, of Prospect St. in Litchfield, died early Monday morning. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on June 18, 1917, son of the late Dr. Harry and Emma (Smith) Risley. He graduated from the Taft School in 1935 and Dartmouth College in 1939. Following military service during World 
 SHARENOW-Sylvan G. Age 71, on July 21, 1997, of Cranbury, NJ, formerly of Teaneck, NJ, retired textile executive. Survived by his wife Dorothy, his children Paula and Jay Kanofsky and Jeffrey and Lisa Sharenow, his sister Florence Sonnenberg and 4 grandchildren. Services today, 11:30 A.M., 
 SIEGEL-Dr. Ernest. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Phillip, Paul and the late Peter. Dear brother of Moosie Weinberger (Arthur), Bernard (Elsie), Mike (Bertha), Rebecca Holtzman and Bob (Selma). Services were private. Donations in Ernie's memory may be made to the American Heart 
 SILBERBLATT-Dr. John M., 88, on July 22, 1997. Beloved husband of Barrie Berns Silberblatt. Retired surgeon, Bellevue Hospital, 1979. Continued practicing until his death at East Harlem and Riverside Clinics in Manhattan. Graduate NYU Medical School, 1936. Former Major, U.S. Army World War 
 SLOANE-Charles B. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Associates, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, deeply mourn the loss of Charles B. Sloane, a generous benefactor and friend of Ben Gurion University. Charles Sloane established a graduate fellowship award at Ben Gurion Univ
 SONNETT-Carl. Age 73, in Redding Ridge, CT., on July 21, 1997. Survived by his loving companion, Sue Witty Bienan, his children, Meri Sonnett-Fisher of Ridgefield, CT., Stacy Heby of NYC, Tony Sonnett of CA., his brother Sidney Sonnenblum of CA., a sister, Blanche Berger of FL., his sons-in
 Alan Mixon, who discovered a passion for performing while traveling with his grandfather's circus and transformed it into a three-decade acting career, died on Saturday in New York. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, George H. Comptis. Mr. Mixon, who was
 Col. Patrick Gerald Collins, who as a retired Marine officer advised the  service and other organizations about the tactics, training needs and battlefield doctrine of tomorrow, died last Thursday in Fairfax, Va., at the home of one of his daughters. He was 64 and lived in Hampton, N.H., ne
 Eric Ashworth, a literary agent who specialized in guiding young authors first into print and then into careers, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39. The cause was complications from AIDS, said Edward Hibbert of the Donadio & Ashworth literary agency in Manhattan.    
 George Nemeny, whose designs for family homes on Long Island earned him dozens of architecture awards in the 1950's and 60's, died on Sunday at the Village Nursing Home in Greenwich Village. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Nemeny, a native of Budapest, established himself as a
 Irving Strobing, the Brooklyn-born Army radio operator who stirred the pulse of a country by tapping out the last brave messages of horror, humor and hope before the surrender of the Philippines in World War II, died on July 8 at a veterans hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 77 and had sent th
 INSELBUCH-Samson, 93, on July 23, 1997, the beloved husband of Frada, his ''Sunny'', father of Elihu and Harriet, and grandfather of Adam, Frank and Lenora, and Jessica and Jan. He was in every way a man of honor and a gentleman. Services on Friday, 12 noon, at The Riverside, 76th Street an
 KATZ-Abraham. A leading member of our Board. His devotion for five decades to our Yeshiva Etz Chaim of Boro Park and his love and activities for the Jewish people is his ever lasting legacy. Our sincere condolences to his family. Hon. Jerome Hornblass, Pres. Yeshiva Etz Chaim Foundation    
 MCPHILLIPS-Brian. The Ocean Bay Park Association sadly notes the passing of its member and offers condolences to his sisters Elaine Crimmins and Gail Looney.       
 MEIKLE-Thomas H., Jr., MD. The Faculty and Staff of Columbia School of Public Health and the Center for Applied Public Health mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Thomas H. Meikle, MD. Dr. Meikle's contribution to training for minority health professionals made a lasting imp
 NAREFF-Max J., M.D., Col. U.S. Air Force Ret., died at his home in San Francisco, California, 7/22/97, after a long illness. Survived by his brother, Arthur A. Nareff, M.D.; sister-in-law, Florence Nareff; niece, Jill N. Blauner, and nephew, Jonathan Y. Nareff.       
 NEKTALOV-Sammy. The Board of Directors, Administration, Faculty, Parents and Students of Yeshiva Har Torah (Queens) mourn the loss of our beloved student, Sammy Nektalov, Shlomo Tzion Chai and extend our heartfelt condolences to Eduard and Mazal, Michael and Beverly and to the extended Nekt
 SLOANE-Charles B. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Associates, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, deeply mourn the loss of Charles B. Sloane, a generous benefactor and friend of Ben Gurion University. Charles Sloane established a graduate fellowship award at Ben Gurion Univ
 THOMSON-Dwight J. Former chairman of the board of Champion Papers, Inc. forerunner of Champion International Corporation, died on July 20, at the Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara. He was 81 years old. A graduate of the Ashville School in North Carolina and of Yale, Mr. Thomson attended an 
 WERNER-Leonard. We mourn the passing of a rare individual and outstanding leader in the international fur trade. His dedicated work on behalf of our industry will be greatly missed. American Fur Merchants Assn.       
 Robert Lamont Green, a men's fashion editor, consultant and lecturer who was the fashion director of Playboy magazine for more than 20 years, died last Thursday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was liver cancer, said his companion, David R. Taylor.
 Irving Strobing, the Brooklyn-born Army radio operator who stirred the pulse of a country by tapping out the last brave messages of horror, humor and hope before the surrender of the Philippines in World War II, died on July 8 at a veterans hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 77 and had sent th
 BRENNAN-William J. 1906-1997. Justice Brennan's eloquent opinion, upholding New York's designation of Grand Central Terminal as a landmark, saved not only one of our City's greatest buildings, but our Landmarks Law, itself. He laid to rest the notion that private property rights and the pub
 EASTMAN-Arthur M. Literary scholar, teacher and editor, died peacefully on July 21, 1997, surrounded by his children at the age of 78 in Green Valley, Arizona. Arthur Eastman will be remembered for his achievements, his gift to inspire, his love of words, his courage to stand by principles,
 FRIEDMAN-Joel. Passed away July 22 at Mt. Sinai Hospital at age 84. He attended Duke University and graduated New York University School of Law. Father to Steven and Richard. Grandfather to Denise Rosenberg, Lauren, David and Kate Friedman. Brother to Charlotte Kottler, Jesse, the late Bern
 GEIS-Irving, molecular artist, writer and poet, passed away July 22, 1997 at the age of 88. The recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship, he was world renowned as a pioneer in the field of biomolecular art. His innovative interpretations of molecular structures were a source of inspiration to s
 INSELBUCH-Samson, 93, on July 23, 1997, the beloved husband of Frada, his ''Sunny'', father of Elihu and Harriet, and grandfather of Adam, Frank and Lenora, and Jessica and Jan. He was in every way a man of honor and a gentleman. Services on Friday, 12 noon, at The Riverside, 76th Street an
 MACAULEY-Richard F., 63, of Rangeley, ME., beloved husband of Renate, father of Christine Macauley Carpenter and Susan Macauley and brother of Nancy Macauley, died Saturday, July 12, 1997, after a courageous battle with cancer. Dick, who received his Master's in architecture from Yale Univ.
 PELLET-Rodman. The Birch Wathen Lenox School is deeply saddened by the loss of Rodman Pellet, headmaster of the school between 1966 and 1983. Mr. Pellet's life served as an example of the values we hope to instill in our students. As a school community, we are fortunate to be the beneficiar
 SCOTT-William R. A 19th century gentleman in tune with the 20th century, Bill's warm generosity to the musicians and everyone associated with New School Concerts and the New York String Orchestra Seminar was matched by his love of typography and the art of fine printing, the community of No
 SONDERLING-Egmont. We have lost a loving husband, a father and a grandfather-our beloved Egmont Sonderling. To those of us who loved him, his kindness and concern for others will forever be in our hearts. Egmont's life is the story of faith, hard work, dedication and commitment. We will all
 VALYI-Tom. Died at home of an asthma attack on July 22 at age 41. A service will be held at Christ Church, Riverdale on Tuesday, July 29 at 4 PM. He is survived by his parents Illy and Emery, his sister Kathy, his brother-in-law Peter Nulty, his nieces and newphew, Aran, Kieran, and Clara N
 Justice William J. Brennan Jr., a towering figure in modern law who embodied the liberal vision of the Constitution as an engine of social and political change, died today, almost exactly seven years after his retirement from the Supreme Court. He was 91. Justice Brennan had been in
 William Rufus Scott, a pioneer publisher of modern children's books remarkable for their striking illustrations and educational content, died on Tuesday at his home in North Bennington, Vt. He was 86. He formed a small publishing house, W. R. Scott, in 1938 and began to publish what
 Ben Hogan, the flinty-eyed Texan who was perhaps the most creative shotmaker in the history of golf and one of its most accomplished players, died yesterday morning in Fort Worth. He was 84. He had been in poor health since undergoing surgery for colon cancer two years ago, then con
 Dick Taylor, a longtime golf journalist, died Thursday at his home in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 72. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Lynne. Mr. Taylor was a contributing editor of Golfweek, editor at large of Links and a columnist for Senior Golfer. He was best kno
 George H. Newi, a former president of the ABC Television Network, died on Tuesday while on vacation in Norway. Mr. Newi, a resident of Bonita Springs, Fla., was 62. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his wife, Sally Garnett Newi. Mr. Newi joined the ABC sales depart
 NEWI-George H., 62. Of Bonita Springs, Florida. Formerly of Chappaqua, New York. Died suddenly while vacationing in Stavanger, Norway July 22. A former President of the ABC Television Network, was a graduate of Syracuse University and served as an officer in the U.S. Army. He is survived by
 PELLET-Rodman. The Birch Wathen Lenox School is deeply saddened by the loss of Rodman Pellet, headmaster of the school between 1966 and 1983. Mr. Pellet's life served as an example of the values we hope to instill in our students. As a school community, we are fortunate to be the beneficiar
 BOROW - Stephen Gary, 59, award-winning architect, in La Jolla, Calif., July 22. A much loved brother, uncle and friend, he inspired all who knew him with his integrity, creativity and courage. In his eagerness to embrace life's lessons, he taught us all.       
 CRUZ-Eric. Died July 5, in NYC. All his friends and family mourn the passing of our beloved Eric, who gave so much unconditionally and warmly. We will always miss his sense of humor, style, kindness and his quaint, essential pursuit of bringing elegance and panache, not only to his life, bu
 ETTLINGER-Eric, of Forest Hills, NY, in his 75th year, at home with his family, July 25, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Lyse. Loving and treasured father of Wendy and her husband Alan, and Joan and her husband Michael. Proud and adored grandfather of Scott, Andy and Lyle. Devoted brother
 GREENBERG-William (Bill). 77 years, of Margate, FL, formerly of Merrick, NY died Friday, July 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Ruth; father of Steve Greenberg and Caryn Chechanover; father-in-law of Paul Chechanover; brother of Ada Michel. Bill was an educator and a veteran of both World War II
 INSELBUCH-Samson, 93, on July 23, 1997, the beloved husband of Frada, his ''Sunny'', father of Elihu and Harriet, and grandfather of Adam, Frank and Lenora, and Jessica and Jan. He was in every way a man of honor and a gentleman. Services on Friday, 12 noon, at The Riverside, 76th Street an
 LAZAR-Manfred. Age 85. July 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Henny; father of Irma Amsel & Rae Kent; adored grandfather of Judith and Jeffrey Amsel and Jeremy Kent. Decorated W.W. II veteran and a true mensch. His spirit will live on in the hearts of those who love him. He will be missed.      
 MINTZER-William Land. On July 23, 1997, at age 52. Broadway lighting designer, founder and director of the Professional Conservatory Program in Theater Design/Technology at Purchase College, SUNY. Co-owner of The Mountain Road Resort in Stowe, VT. Survived by Jeffrey H. Knox, his partner. M
 PELLETT-Rodman G., of Stewart Manor, New York on July 18, 1997. Our deepest sympathy to loving wife Claire and children Mary, Anne and Tim. Rod was our diligent Executive Secretary for eleven years and a devoted Rotarian for thirty-six years. We will all miss him. Rotary Club of New York   
 SHANKMAN-Louis, C.S.W. The physicians, nurses and staff of the Thomas Killip, M.D. Division of Cardiology of Beth Israel Medical Center deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend and colleague, Louis Shankman, C.S.W. We will miss his gentleness and civility, and the quiet dignity with whi
 VALYI-Tom. Died at home of an asthma attack on July 22 at age 41. A service will be held at Christ Church, Riverdale on Tuesday, July 29 at 4 PM. He is survived by his parents Illy and Emery, his sister Kathy, his brother-in-law Peter Nulty, his nieces and nephew, Aran, Kieran, and Clara Nu
 GABRIELE-Tony. His wit, wisdom and abundant love lives in our hearts. Barbara, Tony, Suzy, Greg, Elana, Sara.       
 Robert Arnold Hurwitch, who served as United States Ambassador to the Dominican Republic in the 1970's, died on July 16 at his home in Minot, Mass. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. A former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs,
 Robert Warrn Barnett, a retired United States diplomat and author, died Friday in Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 85. The cause was cancer and penumonia, his family said. An expert on China and the Far East, Mr. Barnett retired from the Foreign
 Gen. Saw Maung, an unassuming Burmese officer who organized a bloody military coup in 1988 and served as the titular ruler while Myanmar toyed with democracy and then brutally repressed it, died on Thursday at his residence in the capital, Yangon. He was 68. A Government statement s
 Alan J. Charig, a peripatetic paleontologist who pursued dinosaurs around the world and brought their story home to a generation of scholars and schoolchildren, died on July 15 in his home in Oxted, England. He was 70 and had been curator of fossil reptiles, mammals and birds at the British
 Frank Parker, a product of a poor Milwaukee family who was discovered by his mentor while working as a ball boy and who rose to win the United States Nationals singles tennis title twice, died last Thursday. He was 81. He died at the University of California Medical Center in San Di
 Irving Geis, an artist who illuminated the wonders of science, from the vastness of space to the intricacies of molecular structures, died on Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in the Inwood section of Manhattan. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage,
 Lawrence G. Chait, a pioneer of the direct marketing industry in the decades after World War II, died July 18 at his home in Croyden, N.H. He was 80. The cause of death was a heart attack, according to his daughter, Martha L. Berlin of Washington. Mr. Chait began his career as direc
 BRENNAN-William J. The Brennan Center for Justice at NYU and the NYU Law School community mourn the loss of Justice Brennan, our hero, inspiration, Honorary Chair, teacher, defender, and faithful friend. He devoted his life to fighting for our freedom, our dignity, and our equality. We will
 BRESLER-Aaron David. Age 73. Retired Director of Antenna Systems Divsion for AIL Systems, Inc. Dr. Bresler was a Life Fellow of the IEEE. He was a graduate of CCNY cum laude in 1944 and received his MEE and DEE from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. Beloved husband of Marjorie (Denker Wien
 CUMMISKEY-Frank J. Age 70, retired Vice President of International Business Machines, died Friday, July 25, 1997, of a heart attack. A resident of Greenwich, CT, he served as Vice Chariman of DSC Communications of Plano, TX, until April of this year. Before his retirement, Mr. Cummiskey ser
 KORNFELD-Bernard. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Devoted and treasured father of Adam and Neil. Proud grandfather of Zachary and Stephanie. Loving fatherin-law to Margo and future fatherin-law to Jillian. Dear brother of Ann. He loved and was loved and admired back. He will be greatly missed an
 MILLER-Paul L. Seventy-seven, died peacefully after a full and productive life on Saturday, July 26th. He is survived by his wife of forty-seven years Adele, and his three daughters Hilary, Beverly and Leslie, one granddaughter and four grandsons. His son, Paul L. Miller, Jr. died in 1993. 
 POWERS-Bernard R. Of Yutan, Nebraska, died at age 50. He is survived by his wife Jeanne, father Ray, one daughter and two sons. A Memorial Mass will be held at 10 AM, on July 29th at Holy Name Church. The Rosary will be at 7 PM, on July 28th. For more information call John A. Gentleman, Oma
 RYAN-Peter J. The partners and employees of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson mourn the passing of former partner Peter J. Ryan who imparted to us and our clients wise counsel and much wisdom. We feel privileged to have benefited from his humanity, which embodied much of what was, an
 SCHLESSEL-Stanley W. Young Israel of Deerfield Beach (Florida) mourns the loss of its esteemed President. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Officers and Board of Directors       
 WAXMAN-Joseph. The Board of Trustees and staff of the New York Chapter of the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America record with sorrow the passing of Joseph Waxman on July 27, 1997. He was the father of our esteemed Director of Development Joan Telley. Our sincere condolences to his bel
 Winthrop Murray Crane 3d, a retired executive of the papermaker Crane & Company, and a lifelong supporter of the Red Cross and other charities, died on June 28 at his home in Dalton, Mass. He was 86. Mr. Crane's involvement with the Red Cross, nationally and in western Massachusetts
 Clarkson S. Fisher, who rose from Monmouth County judge to serve as the chief judge of the United States District Courts in New Jersey from 1979 to 1987, died on Sunday at the Medical Center of Princeton. He was 76 and a lifelong resident of Long Branch, N.J. The cause was lung canc
 Gregorio Weber, a biochemist at the University of Illinois who broke ground in an area of chemical analysis called fluorescent spectroscopy, died on July 18 at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 81. The cause was acute leukemia, his family said. Dr. Weber's research, still goin
 HAAS-Col. Harry H., died peacefully at home in Victoria July 24, Born March 19, 1900 in Union City, NJ. Graduated from United States Military Academy at West Point in 1922. Married Hazel Newkirk in 1923. After retiring from the Military in 1955 he joined Houdaille Industries and was appoint
 KIPNIS-Sidney. A resident of Santa Monica and Palm Springs, CA. and formerly of Williambsburg, Brooklyn, died on July 23, at age 70. Survived by his beloved wife, Geri, his dear children, Neal Kipnis of Riverside, CA. and Robin Kipnis Kaufman, of Agoura, CA., their equally cherished mates, 
 LOIZEAUX-Daniel Clarke. Age 83 of Greenwich, CT. retired Art Director and Trustee of Loizeaux Publishers, on July 27 in Lancaster, PA. His wife, Marion Davies of England, predeceased him in 1995. He is survived by his sister, Marie Loizeaux and brother, Elie, both of Lancaster; three daught
 MARONEY-Dr. James Hilton ''Pat.'' Of Summit and Basking Ridge, NJ. On July 23, 1997. Peacefully, in the presence of his sons, at Morristown Memorial Hospital. Born Cranford, NJ, on April 2, 1908. Educated at Cranford H.S. '24, Pingry '25, Lawrenceville '26, Princeton '30, Columbia Universit
 MARTHELEUR-Didier. In memory of our beloved Didier, who passed away on Sunday, July 27. We will cherish the love and joy that he brought into our lives. He leaves behind his son Sam, his wife Shannon, his parents Nicole and Andre, his sisters and brother, Astrid, Jean and Yaan, his grandmot
 MILLER-Paul L. Seventy-seven, died peacefully after a full and productive life on Saturday, July 26th. He is survived by his wife of forty-seven years Adele, and his three daughters Hilary, Beverly and Leslie, one granddaughter and four grandsons. His son, Paul L. Miller, Jr. died in 1993. 
 NASH-Monroe, of Tenafly, NJ, age 84, on July 26th, 1997. Beloved husband of Florence J. Devoted father of Dr. Irwin, Dr. Carl R., Laura H., and Theodore R. Loving grandfather of twelve. Services were held Monday. For info, call ''Wien & Wien,'' 800-322-0533. NASH-Monroe. We mourn th
 O'CONNOR-James Joseph, 81 years, on July 28th, 1997, of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of Jane. Devoted father of Patricia Brown, Susan Boyd, Catherine O'Connor, James J. O'Connor, Jr. and stepfather of Marylove, Jeffrey and Richard Thralls, Barbara Peck and Joan O'Brien. Adored ''Papa Jim'
 RETTINGER-Abe. 93. Leaves his wife, Tema, after 70 years together; his daughter, Frances Guze; his son, Dr. Seymour Rettinger; sonin-law, Dr. Solomon Guze and daughter-in-law, Charlotte Rettinger; his sisters, Lilian Bernheim and Sarah Brill; his grandchildren, Dr. Peter Wenig, Robert Wenig
 ROBERTS-Isabel of Riverdale, New York. Formerly of Great Neck. On July 28, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Chester. Loving mother of Terry Greenberg and Maxine Brennan. Mother-in-law of Arthur. Adored grandmother of Jeffrey and his wife Jeanette, Barry, Gail and Kevin. Great-grandmother of D
 TRIPP-Samuel, S. On July 27, 1997 in his 94th year. Beloved husband of the late Mary Tripp. Devoted father of Grace and Norma. Grandfather of eight. Great-grandfather of ten. A passionate and committed lawyer and servant of the law for 68 years. Service 1pm, Wed, Schwartz Bros, 114-03 Queen
 WANNING-Andrews of Saugerties, New York, and Blue Hill, Maine, age 84. Professor Emeritus of Bard College, 17th century scholar and lover of literature, music and sailing. Graduate of Choate, Yale and Cambridge University, Professor Wanning also taught at Yale and Harvard. Stricken while tr
 KLEIN-Felix. Jan 17, 1911-July 26, 1994. FELIX...his name meant ''happy,'' and that was what he always made me and all those whose lives he touched so lovingly. Janice       
 Barry Lewis Zaretsky, a professor at Brooklyn Law School and a scholar in the fields of bankruptcy and commercial law, died on Monday, apparently in an explosion that destroyed his vacation home in Canaan, N.Y. He was 47 years old. Police in Claverack, N.Y., said the explosion was u
 Clarkson S. Fisher, who rose from Monmouth County judge to serve as the chief judge of the United States District Courts in New Jersey from 1979 to 1987, died on Sunday at the Medical Center of Princeton. He was 76 and a lifelong resident of Long Branch, N.J. The cause was lung canc
 Dr. Lee Edward Farr, an early proponent of the medical uses of nuclear energy and the first medical director of Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, died on July 16 in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 90. The cause was cancer, his family said. At Brookhaven in the late 
 Kenneth P. Forbes, a stage and film actor who later became a newspaper executive in Suffolk County, died on Sunday in Muncy, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Hughesville, Pa. Mr. Forbes was born in New Rochelle, N.Y., a son of T. Harold Forbes and Carrie Forbes, a song-and-dance team that
 ALISBERG-Norman, MD. July 29, in Hartford, Connecticut. He was the former Chief of Medicine at Bristol Hospital. He is survived by his wife Helene, his daughter Nancy of Brooklyn, New York, his son Andrew of Greenwich, CT., and four grandchildren. The funeral will be Wednesday July 30, 1 PM
 ATKINSON-Geoffrey. A retired telecommunications engineer died on July 28, at Indian River Estates, Vero Beach, FL where he lived. He was 82. A native of Bradford, Yorkshire in England. Atkinson earned an electrical engineering degree at Leeds University in 1937 and joined Standard Telephone
 BAER-Andrew R., of Armonk, New York, on July 28. Devoted son of Dr. Rudolf L. Baer; loving father of David and Jessica; cherished brother of John R. Baer; uncle of Alexandra and Abigail; and nephew of Eva Baer. A memorial service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 
 CARNEY-Thomas A. Died peacefully in his home on July 28 in Belle Harbor, Queens, beloved husband of Margaret (nee Rochford) and the late Thelma (nee Steventon). Until his death he was Vice President of Operations and Management for the Mendik Realty Co. where he served for 28 years. Born in
 CARUSO-Joseph. The members of the Greenwich Green Cooperative deeply regret the loss of their President, long time friend and neighbor. We will miss his music, his talent, and his sense of humor. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Judy, and the entire Caruso family.       
 CHARNEY-Rabbi Lawrence. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1942, he served congregations in New York, Massachusetts and Chicago. He assumed the pulpit of Northwest Suburban Congregation (Chicago) in 1960 and became rabbi emeritus in 1985. We extend our h
 LENOK-Abby. We are sharing the sadness with our friend and former Chief Financial Officer, Eugene, over his loss. America-Israel Cultural Foundation Vera Stern, President Harvey Rothenberg, Treasurer Kathleen Mellon, Exec. Director       
 MILLER-Paul L. Seventy-seven, died peacefully after a full and productive life on Saturday, July 26th. He is survived by his wife of forty-seven years Adele, and his three daughters Hilary, Beverly and Leslie, one granddaughter and four grandsons. His son, Paul L. Miller, Jr. died in 1993. 
 RETTINGER-Abe. 93. Leaves his wife, Tema, after 70 years together; his daughter, Frances Guze; his son, Dr. Seymour Rettinger; sonin-law, Dr. Solomon Guze and daughter-in-law, Charlotte Rettinger; his sisters, Lilian Bernheim and Sarah Brill; his grandchildren, Dr. Peter Wenig, Robert Wenig
 RYLE-Joseph D. In memory of Uncle Joe, blithe spirit, loved by all who knew him. Dear Joe, May the road rise to meet you. May the wind be always at your back. May the sun shine warm upon your face, the rains fall soft upon your fields, and until we meet again, may God hold you in the palm o
 SCOLA-John Bobby. We mourn the passing of John Bobby Scola, a devoted member and officer of the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers (BAC) for 76 years and former business agent for BAC Local 9 New York. Scola, 94, was active in International Union affairs since he att
 TRIPP-Hon. Samuel S. Age 94, Counsel to our law firm for the past 24 years since mandatory retirement as Chief Law Assistant and Official Referee to the Queens County Supreme Court. Sam set an example of devotion to the law and unquenchable intellectual curiosity which in his memory we will
 ZARETSKY-Professor Barry Lewis. The Brooklyn Law School Community mourns the loss of a beloved colleague, distinguished scholar, esteemed teacher and great friend. His legacy as an educator exceeds the sum of the books and articles he wrote, the classes he taught and the law reforms he urge
 KLEIN-Felix. Jan 17, 1911July 26, 1994. FELIX...his name meant ''happy,'' and that was what he always made me and all those whose lives he touched so lovingly. Janice       
 BAER-Andrew R., of Armonk, New York, on July 28. Devoted son of Dr. Rudolf L. Baer; loving father of David and Jessica; cherished brother of John R. Baer; uncle of Alexandra and Abigail; and nephew of Eva Baer, Elizabeth and Henry Werner and Virginia and George Grumbach. A memorial service 
 COHEN-Ronald H. On July 27, 1997, beloved husband of Roslyn, devoted father of Sally Cohen Swift, cherished grandfather of Jonathan, Katie, and Elisabeth. Loving stepfather of Janie and Michael and step grandfather to Evan, Josh, and Jonathan. B.A., Amherst College '34; J.D., Northwestern U
 EISENROD-Solomon. On July 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Sally. Loving father of Michael, Nancy and son-in-law Howard. Dear brother of Barney, Eddie and sister-in-law Mary. Adoring grandfather of Seth and Alexis. Visiting Thursday 7-9 PM. Service Friday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Str
 GELBLUM-Morgan. The Board of Directors and staff of Lawyers for Children extend heartfelt condolences to our good friend and board member, Seth Gelblum, on the death of his daughter, Morgan. Our thoughts are with you, Orren, Madeleine, and Aiden.       
 KARPEL-Louis. A loving, dedicated and generous person. When a community project had to be done Lou was always smiling and ready to oblige. We shall miss him as we have missed his Mollie. Mark Chase, President Oscawana Country Club       
 KING-Aurelious E., M.D. Deceased 7/27/97 in New York City, born 5/27/19 in Newport News, VA., prominent family practice physician for 50 years in Brooklyn and Queens. Served in the U.S. Army Medical Corp from 1/9/43 to 1/9/49. A 1946 graduate of Meharri Medical College, Nashville, TN, Dr. K
 ROSENTHAL-Alexander H., MD. It is with deep sorrow that we note the passing of Alexander H. Rosenthal, M.D., Chairman Emertus of Obstetrics/Gynecology at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. During his tenure from 1954 until 1971, he pioneered teaching activities that included the development
 STONE-Leo, M.D. Died July 29, 1997, in his 93rd year. Beloved husband and best friend of Marta. A loving brother, father, grandfather and great grandfather. He will be greatly missed. He was a kind and gentle spirit who touched us all. His memory will be cherished by family, friends, collea
 WALLER-Irving, age 96. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Devoted father of Seth and Rhoda, and Herbert and Sandie. Adored grandfather of Scott and Lisa, Keith and Robin, Lawrence and Debra, Elissa and Mathew and Donna. Great-grandfather of Courtney, Melanie and Brandon. Services 10:30 AM
 Paul L. Miller, an investment banker and a former president of the First Boston Corporation, died Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 77. The cause was heart failure following surgery to remove a blood clot, his wife, Adele, said. Mr. Miller w
 Raymond Allen Jackson, who kept a good part of London chuckling, chortling and sometimes gasping in indignation during a three-decade run as Jak, the irreverent cartoonist for The Evening Standard, died on Sunday at his home in Wimbledon. He was 70. The Standard said the cause was c
