 Aubrey E. Robinson Jr., chief judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia from 1982 to 1992, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. In his most notable ruling, Judge Robinso
 Harold M. Mulvey, the Connecticut Superior Court judge who presided calmly over the emotionally charged murder trials of several Black Panthers in the early 1970's, died Sunday at a nursing home in Hamden, Conn. He was 86. In his most famous ruling, Judge Mulvey dismissed murder and
 Dr. John C. Lungren, former President Richard M. Nixon's longtime personal physician, died on Monday at Long Beach Memorial Hospital Medical Center in California, where he guided Nixon's care during a near-fatal illness in 1974. He was 83. Dr. Lungren was a specialist in internal me
 ADELSON-Abe. We will sorely miss our wonderful friend, Abe Adelson, devoted Spanish teacher and guidance counselor, who died at home on February 24 at age 77 after a long illness. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Rosenberg Fund for Children, Springfield, MA.       
 CLAESON-Walter W. Died at age 87 on February 27, 2000. He was a veteran of World War II in the European Theater and the Vice President of American Title Insurance Company. He was an intelligent, sensitive and special man and will be missed by his surviving wife, Ann; son, Robert; grandchild
 DAVIS-Harold. February 28, 2000. Husband of Fanye (nee Karr). Formerly of Stamford, CT. Father of Hedy Kaye Zankel, Roger J. (Jane) Davis and Dr. Lloyd (Sally) Davis. Brother of Helen Davis. Also survived by 7 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to se
 IRWIN II-John Nichol of New Canaan, CT. Died Monday, February 28, age 86. Attorney with Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler and former diplomat serving the Truman, Eisenhower, Johnson and Nixon Administrations. Mr. Irwin was Deputy Secretary of State from 1970-73 and Ambassador to France 1973-
 JACOBS-Nathan P. The faculty and students of Yeshiva Gedolah Zichron Moshe, South Fallsburg, NY, deeply mourn the passing of a dear friend and supporter of many worthy charities. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife, Lucille, his devoted children, Carol Ann Leibner, Judith L
 KLUGHERZ-Dan. Formerly of New York City, and Southampton, New York. Died in Sarasota, Florida at age 84. Award winning documentarian with such films as ''The Real Julia'' (correcting the Hellman memoir), ''Marked for Failure'', ''Women in Sports'', ''The Great Black Hope'', ''American Samoa
 KROUWER-Henri. Of Mount Vernon, N.Y. Died peacefully on Feb. 10, 2000. Dearly beloved husband of Nadia. Devoted and loving father of Tom, Peter, & Jan. Proud grandfather of Jennifer, Margot and David. Loving and beloved husband of the late Margot Krouwer. Born in Holland Sept. 5, 1907. Colo
 O'CONNELL-The Reverend Brian J. of the Vincentian Community at St. John's University, past president of Niagara University and Dean of St. John's College of Liberal Arts and Sciences on February 28, 2000. Fr. O'Connell is survived by his brothers Dan and Jerry O'Connell. Family will receive
 SCHWARZ-Morton. Beloved husband to Vivian, adored father to Wayne (Lori), Matthew (Rebecca), and Evan. Loving son-in-law to Beatrice Freund, and the late Fred Freund. Dear son of the late Senta and Walter Schwarz. Taken before his time, February 28, 2000. Shiva to be observed at his former 
 STEINBERG-Frederick T. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Frederick T. Steinberg. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Ethel; his children, Lyle and Spencer Steinberg; stepchildren, Leslie Plat
 TILT-Albert, Jr. On Saturday, January 8, 2000. The Board of Managers and staff of East Side House Settlement express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our good friend and benefactor, Mr. Albert Tilt Jr. A member of the Board since 1951, and a former President and Chairman of the Board he
 UHLMAN-Rudolph Ernst, on February 26, 2000, at Pennswood Village retirement community, Newtown, PA. Formerly of White Plains, NY, and Mount Desert Island, ME. Retired lawyer, with Guggenheimer & Untermyer, NYC, for 48 years. He was born August 10, 1909, in Stuttgart, Germany. Survived by hi
 WATKINS-T.H. The Board of Directors and Staff of The National Book Foundation mourn the passing of T.H. Watkins, distinguished historian and champion of the American wilderness. Tom was a devoted member of our institutional family for over a decade, as a National Book Award Nonfiction Final
 WEBER-John, of Dobbs Ferry, former owner of Weber's Bake Shop in the Bronx died Monday. Survived by his beloved wife of 70 years, Anna and several nieces and nephews. Funeral, Friday 10:30AM, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave (exit 17 Saw Mill) Dobbs Ferry. Visiting Thursday 2-4 &
 George Duning, an Oscar-nominated composer who wrote music for films and television, died on Sunday at Alavarado Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 92. Mr. Duning received Academy Award nominations for five film scores he wrote for Columbia Pictures, where he worked from 1947 to 1962: 
 ALLEN-John Macnab, March 1, 2000. Loving husband of Mary Stanton Allen. Devoted father of Mana Allen Model & her husband Ben, William C. Allen and his wife Christina Sessa Allen, Joanna Allen Lodin and her husband Jeffrey. Cherished grandfather (''GP'') of Joseph, Christopher, Penn Lodin an
 BLUMENTHAL-David. Age 88. Of Sarasota, FL. Survived by his beloved wife of 62 years, Blanche, three sons, six grandchildren and a great grandchild. He was a noted sports photographer for professional teams including the Yankees and Jets. Service Friday, March 3rd, Zion Memorial Chapel, Mama
 COHN-Michael. Temple Shaaray Tefila records his tragic death with profound sorrow. We extend our hearts' condolences to Marlene, Elizabeth, Laurie, David, all their loved ones, his entire grieving family and loving friends. Our sanctuary will embrace him for the last time at 9AM Friday, Mar
 ENGELMAN-Max, passed away 10:45 PM on February 29th, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne. Devoted brother of Howard, Isadore, Minna and the late Abraham. Dear uncle of Richard, Arnold and Augusta. Adored grand-uncle. A kind and generous man who lived a long and fruitful life. May he rest in peace
 HOWSON-Thomas D. age 81 died peacefully of lung cancer on February 24, 2000. His wife, Anne Fraser, whom he met in England after the war, died previously. He is survived by his sister Joan H. Clarke; one niece Juliet Clarke; two nephews, David Clarke and Benjamin Clarke; four greatnieces an
 IRWIN II-John Nichol of New Canaan, CT. Died Monday, February 28, age 86. Attorney with Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler and former diplomat serving the Truman, Eisenhower, Johnson and Nixon Administrations. Mr. Irwin was Deputy Secretary of State from 1970-73 and Ambassador to France 1973-
 PODELL-William. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its Men's Club mourn the passing of the beloved father of their devoted member, Dr. Robert Podell, and extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, Presid
 SIMON-Edward. On February 28, 2000, in Boca Raton, FL, at age 93. Cherished husband of Ruth. They cared for each other through seventy years of marriage. Beloved father of Edwina Marks, grandfather of Bonnie Hilton Green and Elyse Hilton and great-grandfather of Shulian Murray Hilton. The a
 TOMEY-Louis R. Cherished husband of Grace, who passed away last April. Loving father of Allan (Sandy) and Stuart (Lenore), adored grandfather and greatgrandfather. He died suddenly in Phoenix, Arizona on February 25. His family and friends are deeply saddened by the loss of this kind and no
 WEBER-John, of Dobbs Ferry, former owner of Weber's Bake Shop in the Bronx died Monday. Survived by his beloved wife of 70 years, Anna and several nieces and nephews. Funeral, Friday 10:30AM, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave (exit 17 Saw Mill) Dobbs Ferry. Visiting Thursday 2-4 &
 Roy Blough, an economist who served in the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, died on Friday at a retirement home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 98. From 1938 to 1946, Mr. Blough was director of tax research at the Treasury Department and assistant to the treasury secretary. From 1
 Archibald W. Stiles, the little boy who had no toys but grew up to become Santa Claus -- and run an eccentric antiques business that let growing children exchange their old ice skates for somebody else's bigger ones -- died Tuesday at a New Jersey convalescent home. He was 89. Mr. S
 Dennis Danell, a guitarist in the influential Orange County punk band Social Distortion, died Tuesday after collapsing at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 38. The cause apparently was a brain aneurysm, said Jim Guerinot, the band's manager. Mr. Danell had embodied th
 James J. O'Leary, an economist and a former vice chairman of the U.S. Trust Corporation, died Monday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 85. Dr. O'Leary was vice chairman of U.S. Trust, a money management company based in New York, from 1970 until 1980. He also served on t
 Kariel Gardosh, an Israeli political cartoonist who captured the national psyche in depictions of his country as an innocent boy in a tough neighborhood, died on Monday in Tel Aviv. He was 79. The cause was cardiac arrest, his newspaper, Maariv, said. Mr. Gardosh was popular
 ALLEN-John Macnab, March 1, 2000. Loving husband of Mary Stanton Allen. Devoted father of Mana Allen Model & her husband Ben, William C. Allen and his wife Christina Sessa Allen, Joanna Allen Lodin and her husband Jeffrey. Cherished grandfather (''GP'') of Joseph, Christopher, Penn Lodin an
 BOGGS-Jonathan David. Died on Sunday, February 27, at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Raritan Township, New Jersey. He was 54 years old. David, as he was called by his family and friends, was born in Pittsburgh, PA. He lived in New Jersey for over 50 years and resided at the Hunterdon Devel
 ENDE-Jonathan. His beloved friends mourn his untimely passing. An exceptionally perceptive person, there was never a better or more even-minded friend. He was a man of bizarre carnivorous tastes with all the sensitivity others generally attribute to vegetarians. He had an exuberant curiosit
 GOLDSTEIN-Jack, Ph.D. The staff of the Lindsley F. Kimball Research Institue of the New York Blood Center mourns the passing of their colleague and friend, Jack Goldstein. He will be deeply missed. A memorial service will be held Monday, Mar 6th, 4PM at the Blood Center, 310 E. 67 St, N.Y. 
 HERCZ-Sol. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Sol Hercz. Deepest sympathy to his niece & nephew Enid and Stanley Hyman and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President       
 HERMANSON-Merril. Age 84. Died peacefully in Palm Beach, Fla. on March 1, 2000. Loving husband of Lydia. Devoted father of Linda Eder and her busband, Robert, Terry Hermanson and his wife Susie. Proud and cherished grandfather of Elizabeth, Randy, Sarah, Leslie and Merril; greatgrandfather 
 MAClEAN-Dougald Lachlan, D.D. It is with deep regret that the Officers, Board of Managers and Members of The St. Andrew's Society of the State of NY acknowledge the passing of our esteemed and beloved past president. He will be fondly remembered for his rendition of ''To A Haggis'' by Rober
 OBERFIELD-Gilbert R. Died sud denly on March 1st. He was an intelligent, adventurous, exuberant and wonderful man who loved life, laughter and his family. He is survived by his wife Naomi Danis, his children Sophie, Ezra and Talya, his parents Ruth and Bernard. Siblings William, Richard and
 SIMON-Edward. The management and employees of Edlaw Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Farmingdale, NY, express their great sadness at the passing of the Founder and Chairman of the Board of this company. He was a great gentleman and his advise and counsel will be missed. We offer our deep sympathy to 
 STEINHORN-Paul, M.D. Beloved and loved husband of Adele (nee Lyons). Loved and devoted father of Charles (Elizabeth) and Leonard (Sabine). Devoted and loving grandfather to Sarah, Maureen, Ariella and Max. He was retired Chief of Radiology at the La Guardia Medical Group (HIP), pastPresiden
 WHEELER-George Yandes, II. Died peacefully on February 1, at his home in Hobe Sound, FL. A radio announcer, NBC war correspondent and executive with the RCA, he is survived by his loving wife of 35 years, Katherine Gatch Wheeler; four children George Y. Wheeler, III, Jedediah L. Wheeler, Ja
 FREIBERG-Sam. March 17, 1909March 3, 1996. Sam Freiberg was a decent, honorable man who treated people with dignity and respect. Three years after his death, we still mourn our loss but remain thankful for all the years he was with us. From his fortunate family and many friends       
 The Rev. Brian J. O'Connell, a sociologist who was dean of St. John's University's College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and a former president of Niagara University, died on Monday at a hospital in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 59 and lived on the St. John's campus in the Jamaica section of
 Baron Enrico di Portanova, one of the most flamboyant members of the international jet set, who once listed the best things in life as ''sun, sex and spaghetti,'' died on Monday at his home in Houston. He also had homes in Rome and Acapulco, Mexico. The baron's Italian passport gave his age
 Dominic Bruce, a British bomber pilot who made no fewer than 17 attempts in four years to escape from his German captors at the famous Colditz prison, died on Feb. 12 in England. He was 84. Despite his determination and ingenuity, Mr. Bruce was recaptured every time he broke free fr
 Lyndon K. Allin, who worked in the White House under three Republican presidents, died on Monday in a hospital in Washington. He was 59. The cause was chronic lymphocytic leukemia, said his daughter, Stephanie Allin Clemson of Evanston, Ill. Mr. Allin was named in 1967 as th
 CHASSEN-Tamra-The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Tamra Chassen, beloved mother of Howard Chassen. We extend our deepest condolences to Howard and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 GORDON-B. Douglas. March 1. A graduate of Choate, he was president of G&H Service. He is survived by his wife, Fritza von Lengerke; his sister, Marion Cross, and two of three children with his first wife, the late Elizabeth Housekeeper: his son, William Bruce, and his daughter, Elizabeth Co
 KEITH-John P. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Institute of Public Administration are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend and Senior Associate. John earned his Doctor of Public Administration degree from the Institute in 1952, and became a Senior Associate in 1989 upon his
 MACLEAN-Dougald L. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Queens Borough Public Library mourn the passing of a dear friend and colleague. He was a tireless advocate for literacy and strengthened Queens Library with his wisdom and humor. He served as a library Trustee from 1962 until his dea
 PANZER-Harry L. Passed away suddenly in Barbados, on March 3, 2000, at age 85. Beloved husband of the late Norma. Loving father of Richard and David. Adoring grandfather of Charles & Steven. Funeral services to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Norma and Harry Pan
 POON-Peter. On March 3, 2000. Devoted father of Jin Fan Pan and father-in-law of Judi Pan. Adored grandfather of Paul, Tony and Emma Pan. Reposing at Krtil Funeral Home; Yorkville Funeral Service, Inc., 1297 First Avenue, New York City, Saturday 2-4 and 79 PM only. Buddhist services on Mond
 STEINHORN-Paul, M.D. Beloved and loved husband of Adele (nee Lyons). Loved and devoted father of Charles (Elizabeth) and Leonard (Sabine). Devoted and loving grandfather to Sarah, Maureen, Ariella and Max. He was retired Chief of Radiology at the La Guardia Medical Group (HIP), pastPresiden
 STREET-George L. III, Captain USN, Retired, age 86, of Andover, MA, on February 26th, 2000 at Academy Manor Nursing Home. Survived by his wife Mary Martha (McKinney) Street, one son George L. Street, IV and his wife Kathryn of Portland, ME, one daughter Kristopher Terry and her husband Brya
 SUSSMAN-Leo. Beloved husband of Eva. Devoted father of Naomi, Jonathan, David and Ruth. Cherished grandfather of Daniel, Joel, Rachel, Michael, Aviva, Adam, Abigail and Joshua. Great grandfather of Michael, Hannah, Jacob, Sammy and Jeffrey. Services Sunday 11:30 AM at Riverside-Nassau North
 Capt. George L. Street III, who won the Medal of Honor in World War II for directing a daring submarine attack that destroyed three Japanese ships off the coast of Korea, died on Feb. 26 at a nursing home in Andover, Mass. He was 86. Serving as the skipper of the submarine Tirante, 
 ALLEN-John Macnab, March 1, 2000. Loving husband of Mary Stanton Allen. Devoted father of Mana Allen Model & her husband Ben, William C. Allen and his wife Christina Sessa Allen, Joanna Allen Lodin and her husband Jeffrey. Cherished grandfather (''GP'') of Joseph, Christopher, Penn Lodin an
 BOGEDAL-Eric. Passed away on February 28 in the Hospice of the Piedmont at Martha Jefferson Hospital in Charlottesville, VA. A native of New York City, Eric was born on July 26, 1928 to Viggo and Laura (nee Knudsen) Bogedal, Danish immigrants who soon became citizens. He attended school in 
 CARTER-James H. James H. Carter, 64, died in Palmetto, Florida on February 29, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth. Memorial contributions may be made to The Raccoon Island Transportation Co., Ferry Replacement Fund, P.O. Box 59, Lake Hopatcong, New Jersey 07849       
 GREEN-Walter J. 62. Died February 24 after a heroic three year battle with lung cancer. Husband of Rona, father of Adam and Matthew, son of Emily, he worked as the Chief of Corporate Editorial Services for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Walter was a man whose love, integrity, fi
 HERMANSON-Merril. A role model of grace and dignity, the true spirit of generosity, who touched the lives of everyone he knew. A measure of his extraordinary accomplishment is manifested and will continue in the legacy that he has left in his family. With deep sorrow and love Karen and Harv
 JAFFE-Irving. 82. Died on March 3, 2000. He was the beloved husband of Beatrice Jaffe; loving father of Mark (and Carol) Jaffe, Elise (and Andrew) Brownstein; loving grandfather of Adam, Susannah, Alex, Julia; and cherished brother of Anne Golden, Rosalyn Brill, Zelda Sakoffs. Funeral servi
 KATZ-George . On February 15, 2000 at his home in Roosevelt, NJ. Formerly of NYC, he is survived by his wife Margaret Erle Katz, his daughter Lisa Jayne and son-inlaw Jeffrey A. Scheinert of Hallendale, FL, his son Mark Wayne, daughter-in-law Judy, and granddaughter Rachel Lauren of North W
 KEITH-John P. Regional Plan Association mourns the passing of John Keith, its longtime president, who stood for intelligence, integrity and independence. The entire Region will miss his vision and counsel. Peter W. Herman, Chairman       
 KOHLENBERG-Mark. On March 4, 2000. Beloved son of Ruth and Stanley; loving brother of Howard and Christine, Robin and Andrew. Dear uncle of Hannah, Max and Conor. Service Monday 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory may be given to the American C
 LEVERE-Arthur, M.D., age 75, died on March 1, 2000 in Naples, Florida. A veteran of the U.S. Army during W.W. II, Dr. Levere was a physician practicing for over thirty years in Spring Valley, NY. Survivors include his wife, Bunny, his daughters, Andrea and Debra, his son Steven, four grandc
 MALLOY-Thomas J. In Marlborough, MA, March 2. Age 75, huband of Margot (Phillipi) Malloy, of Marlborough, also survived by his sons Michael of Pembroke, MA, and Tom of Providence, RI, his daughters Tessa Tomasetti of Oak Bluffs, MA, Patsy Emmel of Hochstadt, Germany, and Kelley Malloy of Sh
 PANZER-Harry L. Passed away suddenly in Barbados, on March 3, 2000, at age 85. Beloved husband of the late Norma. Loving father of Richard and David. Adoring grandfather of Charles & Steven. Funeral services to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Norma and Harry Pan
 SIEGEL-George. Died March 3 after a long illness at age 76. Professor of Russian Literature and Doctor of Philosophy. Loving companion to Faye Mittelman. Devoted brother and brother-in-law to Jesse and Wilma Siegel. Proud uncle to Hillary Levin and Nancy Siegel. The Siegel family loses by h
 SITOMER-Maurice. Age 88, died February 29, in Washington, DC. Born in Brooklyn, he was educated in Woodbourne and Brooklyn. BS, DDS, OSU. Intern Minneapolis General, served US Army Dental Corps. Past Chairman of Democratic Party Committee, Poughkeepsie. Officer of numerous organizations inc
 WILLIAMS-John Hollingsworth. On February 27, 2000 in Santa Barbara California. He is survived by his son, John Williams Jr., daughters Elizabeth Williams and Johnna Williams, and by many friends of Bill W., on whose lives he had a profound effect and to whom he will be a power of example fo
 Vincenzo Ancona, a Sicilian-born poet who was known in his homeland and among Sicilian-Americans for his poems in his native tongue about the immigrant experience, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 84. Mr. Ancona was born and educated in Castellammare del Golfo, Sicily
 Ernest Lough, whose pure, silvery treble voice when he was 15 is preserved on one of history's most memorable classical recordings, died on Feb. 22 at his home in Watford, England. He was 88. His achievement came on March 27, 1927, when he recorded ''O, for the Wings of a Dove,'' fr
 AMES-Herbert M. Founder and past President of Pack and Process, Inc. Died on March 4 of prostate cancer. He was 82. Mr. Ames resided in Palm Beach, FL, and Bantam, CT, with his wife of 58 years, Lillian. He was born in the Bronx, NY, and was a graduate of CCNY. By his early 30's, he was res
 CHENKIN-Theodore, M.D. Died on March 4, 2000. He is survived by his wife Freda, children David, Michael and Harriet, daughter-in-law Stefanie, grandchildren Jennie and Nathan.       
 GLASS-Martin. Beloved husband of Johanna; loving father of Julie, Susan and Bonnie; devoted brother of Phyllis (Allen); nephew of Lily and Julian. Passed away March 5 at age 66. He will be dearly missed. Services Tuesday, 9:30 AM, at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills.    
 KOHLENBERG-Mark. On March 4, 2000. Beloved son of Ruth and Stanley; loving brother of Howard and Christine, Robin and Andrew. Dear uncle of Hannah, Max and Conor. Service Monday 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory may be given to the American C
 KORN-Allen I. Age 78, formerly of Baldwin, LI, NY, died March 3, 2000. He was the first son of the late Samuel and Sarah Korn. Devoted husband of Doris Korn; beloved father of Steven, David and Sharon; cherished grandfather of Eric, Jarod, Matthew, William, Blair, Brad and Brandon. A member
 MACKLER-Alfred. On Saturday, March 4, 2000, of Bloomfield, NJ. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Alexander); loving father of Harvey and Robbyn Mackler, Randi and Bob Windheim, and Scott and Lynn Mackler; dear brother of Charlotte Friedman; cherished grandfather of Jessica, Justin, Alexander, H
 McCARTHY-John G. Passed away March 5, at Beaumont, Bryn Mawr, PA, age 90. Loving husband of Lily Lambert McCarthy for 56 years. Devoted father of John Jr. and Ann Zavala, and stepfather of David Fleming, Lily Norton and Peter Fleming. Cherished grandfather of John III, Angela McCarthy, Xavi
 MELCHNER-Bernard. Beloved husband for 68 years of Lucille. Passed away peacefully March 4. Father of Richard and Susan. Loving grandfather of Leanne Rettig, Jason and Gordon. He will be missed by the family he loved.       
 SCHULZ-Morris. Died Saturday evening in his home with his loved ones near. Beloved husband of Natalie, father to Hannah and Anita, father-in-law to Sandy and Richard, proud grandfather of Stefanie, Madeline, Jason and Selene. Brother of Willy. Adored and respected uncle and friend. The fune
 SHERMAN-Donald. Age 62. Peacefully passed away on March 3 with his family by his side at his home in North Miami Beach, Florida. For 44 years, he was the beloved husband of Marcia (nee Spirer) of Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Loving father of Debra and Filip Tiffenberg and Ronald and Barbar
 SIEGEL-George. Died March 3 after a long illness at age 76. Professor of Russian Literature and Doctor of Philosophy. Loving companion to Faye Mittelman. Devoted brother and brother-in-law to Jesse and Wilma Siegel. Proud uncle to Hillary Levin and Nancy Siegel. The Siegel family loses by h
 WEINTRAUB-Joel M. On March 4, 2000. Age 65. Beloved husband of Judith. Dear father of Marc and Sharon. Services will be held Monday, March 6, at 11:30 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to American Cancer Society, or to 
 Capt. Chester M. Lee, who survived the kamikaze sinking of a destroyer and later helped NASA send all manner of spacecraft into the heavens, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in McLean, Va. He died after heart surgery, his family said. Captain 
 John P. Keith, a former president of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit planning agency for the New York City metropolitan area, died Thursday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Doris. Mr. Keith was 
 AMES-Herbert. It is with deep sadness that we learn of the passing of our cherished friend, Herb Ames. A man of great honor, vision and superlative achievement for the benefit of religious and charitable causes. He will be long remembered and sorely missed by all who knew him. Our profound 
 GLASS-Martin. Beloved husband of Johanna; loving father of Julie, Susan and Bonnie; devoted brother of Phyllis (Allen); nephew of Lily and Julian. Passed away March 5 at age 66. He will be dearly missed. Services Tuesday, 9:30 AM, at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills.    
 GOLDSTEIN-Albert M. (Albie). March 5, 2000. Husband of Joan Goldstein. Father of Martha and Lauren. Grandfather of Ali and Jenna. Brother of Muriel. Uncle of Beth and Neil. He was the recipient of two Purple Hearts as a marine during World War II. In recent years, he was a member of the Boa
 HICKEY-Robert, F. Esquire on Mar. 4, 2000. Native of the Bronx & a resident of Quogue, N.Y. former Bronx Assistant District Attorney, Human Rights Commissioner and a member of the University Glee Club. Beloved son of the late Frank J. and Anna C. (nee Maginnis). Loving brother of Kathleen P
 KOPLOW-Richard Aaron, on Sunday, March 5 of Lexington, MA. For 40 years husband of Florence (Rubel). Father of Stacey & Uzi Ben-Menashe, Douglas Koplow and Michele Houdek, and Deborah Koplow. Grandfather of Anna, Tal & Morad Ben-Menashe and Eva Koplow. Brother of Michael & Dorothy Koplow, a
 LOCALIO-S. Arthur, MD. Age 88. Of Deerfield, MA. Died March 4, 2000. Born in NYC. He was the son of Joseph and Carmella Localio. Dr. Localio graduated from Cornell University and the University of Rochester School of Medicine. In 1942 he received a Doctor of Medical Science degree from Colu
 MACKLER-Dr. Alfred. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn with deepest sorrow the passing of one of its most beloved and distinguished leaders, Dr. (honoris causa) Alfred Mackler, and extends profound condolences to his beloved wife, Helen, their children and grandchi
 NADAV-Margalit. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Shlomo Nadav and family on the loss of his beloved mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 PANZER-Harry L. Passed away suddenly in Barbados, on March 3, 2000, at age 85. Beloved husband of the late Norma. Loving father of Richard and David. Adoring grandfather of Charles & Steven. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, March 8th, 11:30 AM, Central Synagogue, 123 E. 55th St. 
 ROEGNER-George Peter, 67, died at home in Vero Beach, Florida, on March 4, 2000. Born in Flushing, NY, Mr. Roegner graduated from Pratt Institute in 1954. His distinguished career as an industrial designer began at General Motors. He later held positions at Raymond Loewy, Westinghouse, RCA 
 SAMUELS-Herbert. The President, Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community note with deep sorrow the passing of Herbert Samuels. As a long-time Chairman of Montefiore Medical Center's Community Advisor Board and District Manager for Community Board 4, he will be rememb
 SHERMAN-Donald. Age 62. Peacefully passed away on March 3 with his family by his side at his home in North Miami Beach, Florida. For 44 years, he was the beloved husband of Marcia (nee Spirer) of Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Loving father of Debra and Filip Tiffenberg and Ronald and Barbar
 TAYLOR-Reginald M. MD. Of Wilton, Conn. formerly of Bedford Hills, NY. Died on March 4. He was a Neurophysiologist for Columbia Presbyterian Hospital for many years. Stepfather of John Klein, Karen Ripley and David Campbell. Also survived by five stepgrandchildren and eleven step greatgrand
 ZIBITT-Helen. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Alan Zibitt and family on the loss of his beloved mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 Judge Charles E. Wiggins, a Republican congressman from California who was influential in the Watergate hearings and switched from defending President Richard M. Nixon to supporting impeachment, died on Thursday in Las Vegas. He was 72 and had lived in Las Vegas. The cause was cardi
 Edmond Kaiser, founder of Terre des Hommes and other children's organizations, died on Saturday on a visit to India, a spokesman for one of the charities said. He was 86. Mr. Kaiser organized Terre des Hommes in 1959, after having learned of the condition of children in Algeria. It 
 Edward H. Levi, who began his association with the University of Chicago as a 5-year-old in a special kindergarten there and became the university's president before going on to be a widely admired attorney general of the United States, died yesterday at his home in Chicago. He was 88.     
 COLCHER-Henry. Formerly of NYC. Peacefully on March 7 in Omaha at age 86 after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Anne and father of Paul, David and Susan and loving grandfather of Mindy and Daniel and brother of Joel. Fleeing Belgium he became a Professor at Columbia and conducted
 KEITH-John P. The Directors, Members and Staff of Greater Jamaica Development Corporation mourn with profound sorrow the loss of John P. Keith, retired President of Regional Plan Association. Mr. Keith's strong leadership, integrity and persistent involvement in regional decisions benefitti
 KOPLOW-Richard. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Richard Koplow of Lexington, Massachusetts, a co-founder and leader of the Technion Institute of Management, Israel's leading exectutive education program. A member of
 LOCALIO-S. Arthur, MD. Age 88. Of Deerfield, MA. Died March 4, 2000. Born in NYC. He was the son of Joseph and Carmella Localio. Dr. Localio graduated from Cornell University and the University of Rochester School of Medicine. In 1942 he received a Doctor of Medical Science degree from Colu
 MACKLER-Alfred. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Helen Mackler, on the passing of her beloved husband. Through his service as a Trustee of the Joseph Alexander Foundation and as a Diamond Founder of the Medical Center, together with his wife, he personified the highest standards of tz
 PANZER-Harry L. Passed away suddenly in Barbados, on March 3, 2000, at age 85. Beloved husband of the late Norma. Loving father of Richard and David. Adoring grandfather of Charles & Steven. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, March 8th, 11:30 AM, Central Synagogue, 123 E. 55th St. 
 SAMMONS-Robert Lee. Died peacefully on January 20, 2000, age 74, after a long illness. Survived by his sister, Lucille Schelich of Celina, OH, nephews Robert and Tom Schelich and niece Jackie Colburn. A resident of Manhattan for over fifty years, Bob was best known for his uncanny sense of 
 SHERMAN-Donald. The Jewish Community Center of Fort Lee is profoundly saddened and deeply mourns the passing of an esteemed member of its Board of Trustees. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Marcia, his children Ronald and Barbara, Debra and Filip, his mother Rhoda, h
 SNOW-Richard B. A NYC architect whose career span six decades died February 21, 2000 at the home of his stepdaughter. He was 94. Born in California, he graduated from Columbia College, and from the Columbia School of Architecture in 1931. In 1939 he recruited the architects Edward Stone and
 TEMKIN-Edward. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor       
 TRACY-William T. March 5, 2000. Graduate of The Loyola School and Georgetown University, and served two years in the Army. Survived by his wife Marylin Noble Tracy, son Paul W., daughter Marianne T. Vandervoorn and grandchildren Nicholas, Rebecca and Christopher. Also survived by his sister
 WILKINSON - Brother Cassian Thomas, F.S.C., 75, of Lincroft, NJ on March 5, 2000. He was predeceased by a brother, John Wilkinson and a twin sister, Margaret Wilkinson. He is survived by a sister, Mary E. Wilkinson, Lehigh Acres, Florida. The wake will be held at the Brothers Residence at C
 Raymond W. Ickes, a retired shipping executive and a son of Harold L. Ickes, who was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's secretary of the interior, died on Thursday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Ickes was president of the Natomas Company, the Pacific Far East Line and
 Bill Daniels, a pioneer of the cable television industry, died Tuesday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79. The cause of death was respiratory failure, said Dan Russo, a spokesman with Daniels & Associates in Denver. Mr. Daniels, who lived the last few years in 
 Bill Lewis Downer, a music publisher who worked with many of the leading jazz and pop singers of the 1940's and 50's, died on Feb. 26 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 86. Mr. Downer rose to prominence in the 1940's as the head of Decca Records' music publishing arm, Northern Music
 George Siravo, a pop music arranger who worked with Frank Sinatra, Doris Day, Tony Bennett and other singers, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Medford, Ore. He was 83. A longtime associate of Sinatra's, Mr. Siravo orchestrated that singer's early 50's albums, ''Sing and Dance With Fra
 Noel Annan, an educator, historian and critic whose wide-ranging scholarly pursuits, military experience during World War II and powerful posts in universities and cultural institutions made him an influential member of the British intelligentsia for more than half a century, died on Feb. 2
 BRADY-Monsignor, Daniel J. Died Wednesday March 8, 2000 at the age of 83 years. He is survived by his sisters Mary Brady and Alice Fath. Funeral Mass Saturday 9:30AM at St. Patrick's Roman Catholic Church, Armonk, NY. Interment Calvary Cemetery, Queens, NY. Friends may call Friday, 4-9PM, a
 GRAYSON-Stanley L. Died on March 6, 2000, age 92. Loving and devoted husband of Florence for 68 years. Deeply loved father of Nancy Lou Riccio; grandfather of Rebecca & Jim Fletcher; Victoria (Gahan) and Bert Cliche; Christopher and Katrina Gahan. Great grandfather of Rachel, Leila, Madelei
 HYDE-James R. Retired attorney. On March 4, 2000 at his home in Providence RI. The son of Eleanor G. O'Rourke and the late Robert E. Hyde. Survived by his companion, Marcus Villa, four sisters. A memorial service will be held in NYC at a later date. For service information call Janice Kamme
 LEVI-Edward H. It is with deep sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the loss of Edward Levi, Attorney General of the United States and President of the Academy from 1985 to 1989. Throughout his presidency, he worked to renew the Academy's historic mission to bring to
 MACKLER-Alfred. The Members of the Board, the Administration and the children and families of OHEL, Bais Ezra and the Lifetime Care Foundation for the Jewish Disabled mourn the passing of a visionary communal leader. As a Trustee of the Joseph P. Alexander Foundation, he created opportuniti
 RAHMAN-Mujibur, M.D. The New York Medical Group PC, the Board of Directors and the entire medical and administrative staff mourn the loss of Mujibur Rahman, MD on Tuesday, March 6, 2000. Dr. Rahman was affiliated with the New York Medical Group, PC since March 20, 1978 and became a sharehol
 Paul Rene Doguereau, a pianist, an exponent of the French piano repertory and the founding director of the Peabody-Mason Music Foundation in Boston, died on March 3 in Mount Holly, N.J. He was 91. Born on Sept. 8, 1908, in Angers, France, to a family whose ancestors included a bisho
 Thomas M. Coffey, a biographer and historian, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Linda. Mr. Coffey's book ''Hap: The Story of the U.S. Air Force and the Man Who Built It, General Henry 'Hap' Arnold'' (1982) was
 Daniel Abraham Yanofsky, Canada's first chess grandmaster, died on Sunday at Seven Oaks Hospital in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He was 74. His wife, Hilda, said the cause was cancer and congestive heart failure. Mr. Yanofsky, who was called Abe, was born in Brody, Poland, on March 2
 THERE was a time, back in the fiscally straitened 1970's, that the city was so desperate it turned to known members of the media for help. Thus did Osborn Elliott, departing editor of Newsweek, become a deputy mayor, largely on the strength of his side job as chairman of the Citizens Commit
 CAMP-Richard S. Of East Williston LI on March 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Eleanor, devoted father of Rev. Steven R., William R. and Dr. Robert R. and his wife Dr. Jodi. Dear brother of Loretta Martini, loving uncle of his nieces and nephews. Visitation Saturday and Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 pm at 
 CIRKER-Hayward Francis. On March 8, 2000, of Hewlett Bay Park, L.I. and NYC. Most beloved husband of Blanche, devoted friend and distinguished publisher. Loving father of Steven Cirker and Victoria Fremont. Dear grandfather of Jason and Oliver Fremont. Services ''BoulevardRiverside Chapel''
 GOLDBLATT-William. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its member, Grace Goldblatt. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 GRAYSON-Stanley. We are deeply saddened by the death of our great friend, former Executive Director who, for over 20 years, guided our Foundation with devotion and elegance, and Honorary Board member since his retirement. His relationship with our supporters strengthened our activities both
 LUSKO-Robert A. It is with a deep sense of loss that the Playbill family mourns the death of Robert A. Lusko. He was a gentleman, a man whose life touched many in positive ways. He was a true friend of ours and of the theatrical community. We will miss him greatly.       
 MINTON-Robert W., graduate of Princeton University, class of 1940, died in Concord, Massachusetts, March 9, 2000. Husband of Lal Minton. Father of Helena and Cronan Minton. Brother of Polly Ryan. Also survived by three grandchildren. Memorial services in the First Parish in Concord, 20 Lexi
 POMPER-Lewis, 93, Died on March 6, in Boca Raton, FL, after a brief illness. He was an attorney practicing law in NY for over 40 years. Prior to WWII, specialized in immigration law and assisted refugees trying to enter the US from Nazi Germany. He later established a law firm with Joseph M
 SCHWARTZ-Louis. The Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, NY mourns the loss of its longtime and devoted member and friend. Lou's dedication to his family, to our people and to our congregation will long be remembered. May his family be comforted with the memory of a good man. Rabbi Myron M. 
 Pee Wee King, an eclectic and innovative country music entertainer who was a writer of the pop classic ''Tennessee Waltz,'' died on Tuesday at Jewish Hospital in Louisville, Ky. He was 86. Born Julius Frank Anthony Kuczynski in Abrams, Wis., he began his musical career in the least 
 William Donald Hamilton, one of the towering figures of modern biology and the man who helped to unify Darwin's principles of natural selection with a rigorous understanding of Mendelian genetics, died on Tuesday in Oxford, England. He was 63. Dr. Hamilton was best known for a theor
 Geoffrey H. Moore, who wanted to run a chicken farm but instead became a world-renowned analyst of business cycles, died Thursday at his home in Bloomfield, Conn. He was 86 years old. Dr. Moore rose to prominence during a 30-year career at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a
 Hayward Cirker, the founder and president of Dover Publications, the eclectic paperback publisher of everything from ancient tragedy to ''Build Your Own Inexpensive Dollhouse,'' died on Wednesday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 82 and had homes in Manhattan  and Hewlett Bay P
 Joe Mullaney, the basketball coach who built Providence College into a national power in the 1950's and 1960's, and won more games than any other coach in the college's history, died on Wednesday at his home in North Providence, R.I. He was 75. The cause was complications of non-Hod
 ADISMAN-I. Kenneth, DDS. The members and fellows of the Greater New York Academy of Prosthodontics share the grief of the family of Dr. I. Kenneth Adisman who passed away on Sunday, March 5, 2000. Dr. Adisman was a past President of the Academy and a recipient of its achievement award. His 
 BREZENOFF-Gerald, Dr., PhD. Beloved husband, father, son, brother, uncle. Admired as a caring, compassionate and accomplished clinical psycholgist, leader and advocate, a wise teacher, loving friend and generous human being. We are so lucky to have all that you gave, we will always love and
 CAMP-Richard S. Of East Williston LI on March 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Eleanor, devoted father of Rev. Steven R., William R. and Dr. Robert R. and his wife Dr. Jodi. Dear brother of Loretta Martini, loving uncle of his nieces and nephews. Visitation Saturday and Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 pm at 
 CIRKER-Hayward Francis. On March 8, 2000, of Hewlett Bay Park, L.I. and NYC. Most beloved husband of Blanche, devoted friend and distinguished publisher. Loving father of Steven Cirker and Victoria Fremont. Dear grandfather of Jason and Oliver Fremont. Services ''BoulevardRiverside Chapel''
 DIACRUSSI-Basil. Forty days after his death, a memorial service will held tomorrow, Sunday, for the departed Basil Diacrussi at the Holy Trinity Cathedral, 319 East 74th St. following the Divine Liturgy. His wife Maria and son Stephen will hold a private reception after the Service at their
 ELGART-Benjamin. March 9, 2000. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member, Benjamin and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Lillian and his family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President 
 GORDON-Harry. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Harry Gordon, beloved father of Arthur Gordon. We extend our deepest condolences to Arthur and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 LUSKO-Robert A. The New York/ Connecticut Ford Dealers are deeply saddened by the death of a dear friend and leader. After many years of loyal service as our Regional Sales Manager at Ford Division, Bob retired in only December to follow his dreams. There is a deep sense of loss amongst all
 MIDDENDORF-Henry S. March 9, 2000. Beloved brother of J. William Middendorf, former Secretary of the Navy and Ambassador to the Netherlands, Sarah Lofving of Portland, Me., and the late William Kennedy Boone Middendorf, a banker. He had been president of the Sons of the Revolution, the New 
 TERENZIO-Joseph V. In Miami, FL on March 7. Joseph V. Terenzio, age 81. Husband of the late Marie Cozzolino Terenzio of Miami, FL, formerly of New York City. Father of John J. Terenzio of Los Angeles, Mary Louise Shafer of New York City, Joanne T. Blakemore of Singapore. Brother of the late
 Frank Pape, a Chicago police detective who fought more than a dozen gun battles and survived without a scratch while sending nine suspects to their graves, died March 5 at his home in Park Ridge, Ill. He was 91. In his 39 years on the force, beginning in the era of fedoras, tommy gu
 Joseph V. Terenzio, a New York City commissioner of hospitals under Mayor John V. Lindsay and a strong advocate of public health care for the poor, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in Miami. He was 82 and had been in ill health since suffering a stroke in 1993. Mr. Terenzio was the
 ALKIEWICZ-Andrzej W. Formerly of Ridgefield, CT, died on March 9, 2000, at his home in Nevis, West Indies, after a short illness. Loved husband of Barbara Engel. Proud and loving father and stepfather of Maria, Christopher, Mark, Christine, Richard, Michele, Nicole and Roberta. Delighted gr
 BEAL-Susan. We grieve with our nephew Harvey and his family. Charlotte and Murray Goldberg Rita and Robert Levine       
 BREZENOFF-Gerald, Dr. The Department of Medicine at Maimonides Medical Center extends our condolences to our President Stanley Brezenoff on the loss of his brother. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Brezenoff family. BREZENOFF-Gerald, Ph.D. The Board of Governors, Members and St
 BRYAN-Robert C., former Executive Director of Amsterdam Nursing Home Corp., and a veteran of a distinguished naval career passed away on March 1, 2000. In fond memory of an extraordinary gentleman who profoundly enriched the lives of all who came into contct with him.       
 CALLAS-John Nicholas. Died January 29, 2000, 78 years old, New York, NY. Preceded in his death by his son, Robert Patrick Callas. Husband of Gloria Evelyn Callas, father of sons John Daniel Callas, Peter David Callas, Philip Thomas Callas and daughter Celia Callas Kerames. Graduate of NYU s
 CIRKER-Hayward. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and staff of Penninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the passing of Hayward Cirker, Benefactor. Sincere condolences are extended to his brother Stanley S. Cirker, esteemed Senior Vice Chairman, Board of Directors and t
 COHEN-Maxwell T. February 25, 2000 after a long illness. Served as civil rights, human rights and music industry lawyer for over 50 years. Honored for his successful fight to overturn cabaret licensing laws (police cards),as author of Race, Color, Creed in Adoption Proceedings and as a cham
 GRAYSON-Stanley L. Died on March 6, 2000, age 92. Loving and devoted husband of Florence for 68 years. Deeply loved father of Nancy Lou Riccio; grandfather of Rebecca & Jim Fletcher; Victoria (Gahan) and Bert Cliche; Christopher and Katrina Gahan. Great grandfather of Rachel, Leila, Madelei
 GUIRY-Arthur R. (loving and devoted husband of Margaret (Starrs) Guiry for 36 years) died Thursday, March 9, 2000, after a short illness at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, New York. Mr. Guiry was President of Chromatics Color Sciences International Inc. A long time member of the Saint Andr
 HACKETT-Bruce C. Age 61, died at his home in NYC, Friday evening, March 10, 2000. Mr. Hackett was formerly head of Global Equities and a member of the Executive Committee of Salomon Bros., Inc. He was most recently co-head of Global Equities at Wasserstein Perrela and Co. until early 1999 w
 KIMMEL-Harry, M.D. Beloved husband of Tanya. Loving father of Dr. Marina Kimmel and Dr. Michael Finkelstein, Dr. Barbara and Eric Cherches, and Andrew and Robin Kimmel. Cherished grandfather of Evan, Rachel, Joanna, Carly, Brian, Cody-Rose, Austin, Jesse and Bri. Loving brother of Beatrice 
 KOSSOWSKY-Warren, M.D. Dr. Warren Kossowsky, 65, died peacefully in his home on March 10. Devoted husband of Susan, loving father of Alisa Strauss and Andrew Kossowsky, father-in-law of Jay Strauss and Cori Burros, grandfather of Sophie and Jessica Strauss, brother of Bob Kossowsky, brother
 KRITCHMAN-Morris, MD. 94, of Coral Gables, FL passed away Saturday March 4, 2000 at home. He had been a Florida resident since 1973, coming from Forest Hills, NY. Dr. Kritchman is survived by his beloved wife Lola (nee Josephs); loving father of William Kritchman, the late Richard Kritchman
 MATTHIESSEN-Erard A. Died on March 8, at the home of his close friend Barbara Tobin in Sanibel, Florida. He is survived by a daughter Mary Seymour Matthiessen Wheelwright of Camden, Maine and two sons Peter Matthiessen of Sagaponack, New York and George Carey Matthiessen of Old Lyme, Connec
 MIDDENDORF-Henry S. March 9, 2000. Beloved brother of J. William Middendorf, former Secretary of the Navy and Ambassador to the Netherlands, Sarah Lofving of Portland, Me., and the late William Kennedy Boone Middendorf, a banker. He had been president of the Sons of the Revolution, the New 
 MYRON-Robert E., Ph.D. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Dr. Robert E. Myron, Professor Emeritus of Fine Arts. Professor Myron received his BA and MA in Fine Arts from NYU and a Ph.D. from Ohio State University, where he was awarded a fellowship. Prior to joining the
 NEIMAN-Harold. In Las Vegas, NV, on March 9. Beloved husband of Ruth; loving father of Laurie, Melissa, Jennifer, Alphonse, Neal and Steve. Adoring grandfather of Elyse, Hayley and Jeffrey; and very dear brother in-law, uncle and friend. He was a WW II veteran, an NYU Business School gradua
 SUSSMAN-Leon, M.D. The leadership of Beth Israel Medical Center and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, acknowledges with great sadness the passing or our longtime friend and colleague, Leon Sussman, M.D., who dedicated himself to Beth Israel for almost sixty years. As a national
 TERENZIO-Joseph V. The board of directors, other volunteers, and staff of the United Hospital Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of their former president. From 1972 to 1983, he provided strong and progressive leadership at a time of significant change in New York's health care system. A 
 WHEELER-Mark C. Jr. aged 50, died of complications of a brain tumor on March 10 in Milwaukee. Vice - Chairman - Commercial Group at Firstar Corporation, he had left New York banking only a year ago. At that time, he served Fleet Financial Group jointly as President of Fleet Bank, N.A. and a
 Jack Sanford, a hard-throwing right-hander who won 16 consecutive games in propelling the San Francisco Giants to the 1962 National League pennant, died last Tuesday at a hospital in Beckley, W.Va. He was 70. The cause was brain cancer, his family said. Sanford pitched in th
 ABELOW-Morris Lee. Brave beyond measure. Devoted brother, husband, father, grandfather and friend with a love of life that was unrivaled. A man of his likes we'll not see again. He will be missed. The Abelow Family ABELOW-Lee. The New York Metropolitan Region of the United Synagogue
 CIRKER-Hayward. The Friends of Rock Hall Museum of Lawrence, NY, mourn the passing of our Board Member, Hayward Cirker. His love of Rock Hall led to the Dover publication of ''Rock Hall: A Narrative History,'' forever linking him to our museum.       
 DOLCH-Irving. March 11, 2000; age 89 years. Best friend and husband of Sylvia; loving father of Howard and Norman; loved by grandchildren Peter, Robin, Lauren and Amy. We deeply mourn his passing more than we can say and will always love him and remember his kind and gentle ways. Services a
 GILLIES-Peter C. Passed away in Greenwich, CT, on March 11, 2000. Born on November 22, 1931, in Biddulph, England, Peter moved to Rye, NY, in 1979. As Chief of Field Personnel in the Field Operations Divison of the United Nations, he traveled extensively to war ravaged countries. His most r
 HACKETT-Bruce C. Age 61, died at his home in NYC, Friday evening, March 10, 2000. Mr. Hackett was formerly head of Global Equities and a member of the Executive Committee of Salomon Bros., Inc. He was most recently co-head of Global Equities at Wasserstein Perrela and Co. until early 1999 w
 MIDDENDORF-Henry S. March 9, 2000. Beloved brother of J. William Middendorf, former Secretary of the Navy and Ambassador to the Netherlands, Sarah Lofving of Portland, Me., and the late William Kennedy Boone Middendorf, a banker. He had been president of the Sons of the Revolution, the New 
 MYRON-Robert. Witty, handsome, smart-Bob enlightened and delighted Hofstra students and colleagues for many years. He brought Mayan and Mound building Indians to life-and us too. Sandy and Hy Enzer       
 RIDLESS-Monroe. Died on March 11, 2000. Beloved husband of Adele; loving father of Hank, Randy, Glenn, Josh; brother of Jimmy and Harriet; grandfather of Stephanie. He was dearly loved and will be terribly missed. A memorial service was held in Florida.       
 SHERWIN-Andrew S., M.D. It is with deepest sorrow that we announce the death of Andrew S. Sherwin, M.D., on March 11. Dr. Sherwin began practice on Long Island in 1943 and practiced for over 50 years in the specialty of obstetrics and gynecology. In his career he delivered over 12,000 babie
 ZIPPER-Sidney. The Board of Governors and members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Sidney Zipper. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Sylvia and family. Michael H. Kerr, President       
 Spelman Prentice, one of the last surviving grandchildren of John D. Rockefeller and a businessman active in oil and natural gas exploration, died on Thursday at his home in Montecito, Calif. He was 88. For many years, Mr. Prentice pursued oil and gas operations through the company 
 Walter Dana, who propelled polka music to a new prominence in postwar America after a varied career in popular music in Poland, died on March 4 in Miami Beach. He was 96. Having exposed the Poles to American jazz before the war, Mr. Dana took polkas to new audiences when he founded 
 Alfred C. Neal, an economist whose interest in developing the global economy influenced United States trade policy in the 1950's and 1960's, died Wednesday. He was 87 years old and lived in Sarasota, Fla. Dr. Neal, who was one of 11 children, got early exposure to free-enterprise re
 Cardinal Ignatius Kung, one of China's most enduring religious dissidents, who spent most of his adult life in a battle of wills with the Communist government over his right to practice his Roman Catholic faith, died on Sunday in exile at his nephew's home in Stamford, Conn. He was 98.     
 Malcolm Wilson, who spent 15 years as Nelson A. Rockefeller's lieutenant governor and one year as governor of New York, died yesterday at his daughter's home in New Rochelle. He was 86. Long the understudy (and after 36 years of state service in all), Mr. Wilson finally became gover
 Henry S. Middendorf Jr., a prominent New York lawyer who also was active in conservative politics, serving as vice chairman of the Conservative Party in New York State, died Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause of death was a heart attack, said Robert S
 Mack Robinson, who was a silver medalist in the 1936 Berlin Olympics but would be overshadowed by the track great Jesse Owens and by his younger brother, the pioneering baseball Hall of Famer Jackie Robinson, died Sunday at a hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 85. He was one of Ame
 ASLAN-Benjamin. Devoted father of Don, Susan Pozner and Anne Chodosh, loving grandfather of Jennifer, Amanda & Marc. Caring brother of Sylvia, Henrietta and Ed. Retired Partner at the law firm of Fiblson, Lasky, Aslan & Couture. Former President of the Frederick Lowe Foundation. Services Tu
 BREZENOFF-Gerald, Ph.D. The Department of Psychiatry of North Shore University Hospital, part of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, notes with profound sadness the passing of Dr. Brezenoff. The Clinical Director of the Adult Outpatient Clinic, Dr. Brezenoff was an outstanding
 BROOKS-Stanford. The Officers and Board of Trustees of The Gold Coast Chapter of The Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America mourns the passing of our esteemed past President, Stanford Brooks. His dedication and wisdom provided invaluable leadership. We extend our sincere condolences to h
 BRYAN-Robert C. Former Executive Director of Amsterdam Nursing Home. His enduring leadership and guidance will always be appreciated. The Board of Directors and his colleagues mark his passing, and will cherish his memory.       
 DEL SAVIO-Louis, of Lew Beach, New York, died on March 10, 2000, at the age of 89. Born in Caneva, Italy, on April 9, 1910, he was reared in the Bronx and was a member of Bricklayers Local 34. He was a founding partner of SalVio Masons, a leading masonry construction firm in New York City, 
 EARLY-Albert D., 86, of Sarasota, Florida, and Chatham, Massachusetts, died March 11, 2000. He was born August 18, 1913 in Rockford, Illinois. He was a graduate of Northwestern University and the University of Michigan Law School. He retired as a partner of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and McCloy
 ELGART-Ben. In tribute to a remarkable gentleman, a good friend and a trusted colleague. With deepest sympathy to his daughters, Ellen Conovitz, Judy Schreiber, and beloved wife, Lillian. Louise M. Sunshine       
 FRIED-Solomon. On March 11, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Estelle. Devoted father of sons, David and wife, Ruth; Richard and wife, Beth; and Daniel. Loving brother of Dr. Alan Fried and the late Fayth Krieger. Cherished Zayde of Ethan, Adam, Esther, Jessica, and Rebecca. Caring brother-
 GILHOOLEY-Joseph, graduate of Duke University, Class of 1954, beloved husband of Sallie, loving father of Beth, Cara, Chris, Donna, Matthew and Kate Wen Fu, died peacefully surrounded by his family, March 11th, 2000. Service on Wednesday, March 15th, 4 PM, Church of the Incarnation, Madison
 GOLDSTEIN - Joseph. The trustees and staff of the Vera Institute of Justice are deeply saddened by the loss of our board member, Joseph Goldstein. Since 1966, Professor Goldstein provided wise counsel in a wide range of areas, including innovations in criminal justice and improvements in th
 HACKETT-Bruce C. The Board of Directors and Founders of Project A.L.S. are deeply saddened by the loss of Board member Bruce C. Hackett. We extend our sympathy and love to his wife, Joann, and their children Henry and Daisy.       
 KATCHER-Morris, M.D. The PLK-MSAS mourns the passing of their Past President and Chairman of the Board and beloved frater and expresses their deepest sympathy to his wife, Phyllis and the family.       
 MIDDENDORF-Henry S. Jr. Sons of the Revolution in the State of New York notes with sorrow the death of Henry S. Middendorf, Jr., a life member and past president of this society. He served with devotion on the Board of Managers and held many other vital commitee positions. Our heartfelt con
 NEWCOMBE-Richard. 58, of Germantown, MD, on March 9, 2000. Beloved of his wife Anne of 37 years, daughter Ellen, grandchildren Joshua and Adrianna of Pittsburgh, PA, his brothers Peter of Parrish, FL, and Christopher of Wynnewood, PA and their families, and friends. Dr. Newcombe, a geograph
 RIDLESS-Monroe. A loving uncle and constant friend to his nieces. You will always remain a part of our lives. Lyn Koplik, Helene Herman, Robin Ridless and Jaymie Ridless.       
 ROSENTHAL-C. Julian, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, C. Julian Rosenthal, M.D., Chief of Oncology at our Kings Highway Division (KHD) and an attending physician at our partner institution, Long Island College
 TERENZIO-Joseph V. The Board of Directors and staff of the Medical and Health Research Association are are saddened by the passing of Joseph Terenzio who served as a Director for more than 10 years. We will not forget his friendship and wise counsel. Raymond Fink, PhD Chairperson Ellen Raut
 WHEELER-Mark. We deeply mourn the untimely death of Mark C. Wheeler, Jr., former member of the Leadership Committee of the Lincoln Center Consolidated Corporate Fund and former Chairman of the Lincoln Center Business Council. Mark provided dynamic leadership to the Council during its critic
 WOOLLEY-George W.. 95, of Bethesda, Maryland, died March 10, 2000. Father of George A., Margot A. and Larry Woolley, three granddaughters, two great granddaughters, pre-deceased by his wife of 59 years, Anne Collins Woolley in 1995       
 Joseph Goldstein, a longtime law professor at Yale who was widely known for his interdisciplinary approach to family law and other legal fields, died on Sunday at a hospital in New Haven. He was 76 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, the Yale Law School's di
 ATWATER-Charles B., age 85, died at his home on Friday, March 10. He was born May 19, 1914 in Elizabeth, New Jersey, the son of Edward S. Jr. and Jeannette S. (Brown) Atwater. Mr. Atwater was a 1931 graduate of Pingry School in New Jersey. He graduated from Princeton University in 1935, fol
 DIAMOND-Herbert M. On March 13, 2000, devoted husband of the late Irene Diamond, beloved father of Mark, Patricia, and Judith Diamond, and Bonnie Lisman, survived by his children and sister, Eleanor Seskis. Graveside services are today March 15th at 2 P.M. at Mount Hebron Cemetery, Flushing
 GOLDSTEIN-Joseph. The Board of Trustees of Sigmund Freud Archives mourns the loss of their colleague, Joseph Goldstein, Sterling Professor of law at Yale, who died Sunday, March 12. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and friends. Harold P. Blum, M.D. Executive Director Alexander G
 HASSETT-William D. On March 13, 2000 at age 63, of leukemia. Adored husband of Margaret (nee Brennan). Loving father of Eva, William, Joseph, Ellen, Elizabeth and Caroline. Beloved stepfather of Margaret MacClarence, John Picotte, and Brooke Picotte. Cherished grandfather of eight. Dear bro
 HOFBAUER-Egon. On March 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Edith, devoted father of John and Carol, cherished grandfather of Eric, Claire, Jason and Alex. Loving brother of Lily. He touched many lives.       
 KISTER-Frank F., age 83, died March 14 at Mary Manning Walsh Home after a long illness. Beloved uncle of Doucet Devin Fischer and the late William J. Byrne Jr. and their spouses, Stephen E. Fischer and Mary F. Byrne. Dear brother of his late sisters Bernice K. Devin and Maryon K. Byrne. Als
 NOLAN-Raymond F., 87, of Glen Rock, formerly of Ridgewood, on March 12, 2000. Born in Nyack, NY, Mr. Nolan had been a resident of Glen Rock for over 30 years. Prior to his retirement in 1977, Mr. Nolan had been an Assistant Treasurer with Texaco in N.Y. City. He is survived by his loving wi
 PARRIOTT-Joseph Marshall, 79, on March 12, 2000 in Cooperstown. Respected industrial designer and educator. Husband of Mary Buckley Parriott, brother of Susan Parriott Grimm, James and Foster Parriott. Memorial service on Monday, March 27 at 2:30PM in the Cathedral Church of St. John the Di
 RAINER-John D., M.D. On March 12, 2000, age 78. Beloved husband of 55 years of Barbara, revered brother of Lester, devoted father of Jeff and Peter, proud grandfather of Marta, Jeremy and Alexander, cherished father-in-law of Iwona, adored cousin of Naomi, honored brother-in-law of Judith a
 RANDOLPH-Stephen B. A financial industry executive, died on March 12 at his home in Mt. Kisco, NY. He was 74. Born in Austria, he was a grand-nephew of Sigmund Freud, came to the US in the early 30's, and served in the Navy during the Second and Korean Wars. As an advisor for United Nuclear
 ROSENTHAL-C. Julian, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D. Secretary Wi
 WILSON-Malcolm, former Governor, State of New York, on March 13, 2000. Devoted husband of the late Katharine McCloskey Wilson. Devoted father of Kathy Wilson Conroy and Anne Wilson Matthews. Brother of the late Irene Wilson Baker, Donald C. Wilson and Mary Jane Wilson Couzens. Grandfather o
 YANIS-David. Retired partner in Hewitt Associates, died on March 12, 2000 in Boca Raton, Florida. A graduate of The Bronx High School of Science, and The City College of New York, he became a partner at Hewitt in 1975. Mr. Yanis was a member of ADATH OR, a Jewish Renewal Temple in Fort Laud
 William Colvig, an instrument builder who collaborated with the composer Lou Harrison on gamelans and other percussion instruments and who was Mr. Harrison's companion for 33 years, died on March 2 in Capitola, Calif. He was 82 and lived in Aptos, Calif. Mr. Colvig was born in Medfo
 Alexander Dreier, a broadcaster who was known for his reports from Europe during World War II and who later worked as a television journalist in Southern California and Chicago, died on Sunday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 83. Mr. Dreier was born in Honolulu on June 26
 Bobb McKittrick, who helped the San Francisco 49ers win five Super Bowls in his two decades as one of the National Football League's premier offensive-line coaches, died yesterday at Stanford (Calif.) University Medical Center. He was 64. McKittrick had been suffering from cancer of
 Hylan Garnet Lewis, a sociologist and pioneer in the field of community studies who was active in public life and taught in New York for years, died on March 8 at a hospital in Versailles, France. He was 88, lived on Manhattan's Upper West Side and had been visiting France. The deat
 Jack Mann, an award-winning sportswriter and editor, died last Saturday in Columbia, Md. He was 74 and lived in Laurel, Md. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Mann was the sports editor at Newsday from 1960 to 1962, helping turn what had been a section with a local focus int
 Joseph Sullivan, a New Jersey businessman who ran for governor and later served as chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, died Monday at a hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 63. The cause was a stroke, said a son, Edward Sullivan. Mr. Sullivan, who lived in New Vern
 DAVIS-Neil. Of Boynton Beach (formerly of Plainview, NY). Passed away March 13, 2000. Mr. Davis was beloved husband of the late Sonia, loving father of Gary Scott (Barbara) and Laurie Davis. Cherished grandfather of Jessica and Lindsay. Loving brother of Morty. Adored uncle and great uncle 
 GOLDSTEIN-Joseph. The Director and Faculty of Yale University's Child Study Center are deeply saddened by the loss of our fellow faculty member, Joseph Goldstein, Sterling Professor of Law, on March 12, 2000. His creative, extraordinary teaching and scholarship brought the Law School and Ch
 HASSETT-William D. On March 13, 2000 at age 63, of leukemia. Adored husband of Margaret (nee Brennan). Loving father of Eva, William, Joseph, Ellen, Elizabeth and Caroline. Beloved stepfather of Margaret MacClarence, John Picotte, and Brooke Picotte. Cherished grandfather of eight. Dear bro
 KALMAR-Martin, Dr. The Jewish Center mourns the sudden passing of the father of its beloved Rabbinic Intern, Rabbi Wesley Kalmar. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood   
 MCGILL-James Jr. Of Manhattan on Mar. 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Joyce and devoted father of Melissa & Brad D. of Manhattan. Loving son of James and Janet McGill of Ridge, NY. Cherished step-father of Alyson M. & David M. Lillis of Manhattan. Caring brother of Jeffrey P. of Oxford, CT. He
 RAINER-John, M.D. We are much saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. John Rainer, whose distinguished career at Psychiatric Institute spanned almost fifty years. From his psychiatric residency here through his many years as Director of Medical Genetics, where he mad
 RANDOLPH-Stephen B. A financial industry executive, died on March 12 at his home in Mt. Kisco, NY. He was 74. Born in Austria, he was a grand-nephew of Sigmund Freud, came to the US in the early 30's, and served in the Navy during the Second and Korean Wars. As an advisor for United Nuclear
 WATTS-Edward Francis, Senior. Born October 4, 1916, died March 14, 2000. Retired from the Greenpoint Savings Bank after more than 50 years. Husband of the late Paula. He is survived by his children Edward and Gladys, daughterin-law Linda and granddaughter Brooke. Friends may call at Guidos 
 WILSON-Hon. Malcolm. The Board of Trustees and administration of New York Foundling Hospital record with sadness the passing of Malcolm Wilson, an esteemed friend and a dedicated advocate for children and families. To his family, we extend our sincere condolences. Sister Carol Barnes, Board
 Paul Rudolph Jolles, a Swiss diplomat who played a key role in promoting the peaceful use of atomic energy through the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and later became chairman of Nestle, the Swiss food-products group, died on March 11 in Bern. He was 80. At the end of 
 Bruce C. Hackett, a former managing director of Salomon Brothers, died on March 10 at his home in New York. He was 61. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said his wife, Joann. Mr. Hackett worked for Salomon Brothers for 30 years start
 Dr. Eugene D. Robin, a medical professor, researcher and advocate of patients' rights and education, died on March 8 in a hospital in Eureka, Calif. He was 80 and lived in Trinidad, Calif. The cause of death was complications from cancer, said his wife, Jane. Dr. Robin was t
 Fred Kelly, a producer, director, choreographer and dance instructor who taught his brother Gene to tap-dance -- not to mention polishing young John Travolta's early moves -- died of cancer on Wednesday in Tucson. He was 83. Mr. Kelly, who appeared on Broadway and in movies and was 
 John L. Wehle Jr., the chairman of the Genesee Corporation, died on March 10 at the Genesee Region Home Care and Hospice in Rochester after a battle with cancer. Mr. Wehle, a Rochester resident, was 53. He had been the chairman of Genesee, the Rochester company that owns the Genesee
 Morris B. Abram, a small-town boy from Georgia who went on to play a role in the civil rights movement, become a leader of the American Jewish community, serve as president of Brandeis University and fill posts on a variety of commissions and panels under five presidents, died yesterday at 
 ABRAM-Morris B. The American Jewish Committee, the international Jewish community, and all people everywhere who hope for a better world, have lost a cherished friend, a powerful advocate for freedom and justice, and a man of profound moral integrity and enormous human kindness with the pas
 CHALLENOR - Bernard, MD, MPH. The students, faculty, alumni and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health are deeply saddened by the sudden death of Dr. Bernard Challenor. At the time of his passing, he was Associate Professor and Director of the General Public Health Program (Hea
 GLASS-Gerald G., Ph.D. Devoted husband of Esther. Loving father of Susan, Jonathan and Matthew; grandfather of Emily, Abigail, Anna and Sam. Proud World War II veteran, recipient of the Bronze Star and Purple Heart. Professor of education at Adelphi University since 1958. Raised in the Sout
 GOTTESMAN - Milton Charles, (Bud) 84 of Golden Beach, FL died March 14, 2000 in Florida. He is survived by his wife Enid (nee Fraad), Four sons; Jeffrey Gottesman, Andrew Leo Gottesman, Richard (Susan) Maizel and Daniel Maizel. Two grandchildren Alexia and Josh Maizel; two sisters Alberta W
 KELLY-Robert E. Along with Diane, Elizabeth and Rob, we share the grief of Bob's passing and the joy of his having been such a cherished part of our lives. Gloria and Stephanie       
 LEVY-Herman. On March 15, 2000. Retired teacher of English and Asian literature at Bronx High School of Science, a writer and sculptor. Beloved by his partner, Judith, and his children Todd, Erika, Jennifer and Matthew. Service Friday, 2PM, Plaza Memorial, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.   
 MCGILL-James Jr. Of Manhattan on Mar. 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Joyce and devoted father of Melissa & Brad D. of Manhattan. Loving son of James and Janet McGill of Ridge, NY. Cherished step-father of Alyson M. & David M. Lillis of Manhattan. Caring brother of Jeffrey P. of Oxford, CT. He
 McMAHON-Edward Ward. On March 14, 2000, at his home in New Canaan, CT. Retired Senior Government Relations Advisor for Mobil Oil Corp. Beloved father of two sons, Christopher and Edward W., Jr and three daughters, Carolyn McMahon, Rosanne Sharpe and Clare Clair. Devoted brother to Thomas an
 NEWMAN-Richard J. The firm of Buchman & O'Brien, LLP extends its sincere condolences to our partner Michael B. Newman, his wife Ellen, children and the entire Newman extended family. Richard was recognized as a premier individual in the beverage alcohol industry. His vision, warmth and pres
 POKART-Emanuel. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to his bereaved family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Alan J. Hartstein, President POKART-Emanuel. Survived by his wife, Elaine, six children, three grandchildren and a brother. 
 SALUSKY-Robert in Orinda on March 14th at 84 years of age. A native of Montreal, Canada, lived in New York as a young man and then in Southern California for over 50 years. An optometrist for 37 years, a member of the American Optometric Association and avid gardener. Loving father of Ida, 
 ABRAM-Morris B. Funeral on Sunday, March 19, 3PM, Cape Cod Synagogue, 145 Winter Street, Hyannis, MA. Shiva thru Tuesday, March 21 at Abram home, 72 Whig St., Dennis, MA, and Wed, March 22, 3PM to Fri, March 24, 4PM at home of Ruth Abram and Herbert Teitelbaum, 110 Riverside Drive at West 8
 CHALLENOR-Bernard. Died suddenly of Hypertensive Cardiovascular disease at home on March 15 at the age of 63. Doctor Challenor was Associate Professor and Director of Public Health at Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health. He also coordinated the dual Master's Degree program
 HAWKINS-Louis Golson ''Goldie''. Mr. Hawkins, noted pianist and restauranteur in Ocean Beach and New York City, died Thursday, March 16, 2000 in West Palm Beach, FL. Goldie retired to Palm Beach 25 years ago where he continued to entertain for 20 more years at various private functions. Kno
 HOROWITZ-Stanley on March 17, 2000 after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Loving husband of Ruth; father of Bruce and Karen, Kenneth and Roberta, and Jodi and Mitchell Efros. Devoted grandfather to Margo, Danielle, Adam, Matthew, Jason, Joshua and Max. He was an inspiration to everyon
 LAIRD-Walter J., Jr. Of Chadds Ford, Pa. on March 15, Age 73. Beloved husband of Antonia Bissell. Devoted father of David, Ian, Philip, Jay, Emily and Stephen. Adored ''Big Bear'' by his nine grandchildren. Senior Vice President of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. Former Chairman of the Board of
 LAUB-Hyman. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our exteemed member, Hyman Laub and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Beulah and children, Lawrence, Barbara and Kenneth. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club Barry Swidler, President Herb Selzer, Secretary      
 RAINER-John D., M.D. The members of the Westchester Psychoanalytic Society mourn the passing of their esteemed colleague and former President and extend their deepest sympathy to his family. Arthur Lew, M.D., President       
 ROMERO-Joseph James, age 86, March 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Louise. Loving father of Joseph, Lois, Fay Ellen, Mary, Gerard, Margaret, Dolores, Carolyn, Robert and Janet. Oldest brother of George, Ann, Veronica, Martha and of the late Winifred, Margaret and William. Beloved grandfather o
 SPIVAK-Stanley. On March 17, 2000 at home in Palm Beach Gardens, formerly of LI. Age 72. Chairman and former President of Long Island Stove, Inc. Devoted husband of Willa. Loving father of Gene, Scott & Dale. Dear brother of Iris, Geylin. Loving father-in-law of David Sivitz and Sharon. Ado
 WEINBERG - Murray. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. mourns the passing of our beloved member, Murray Weinberg. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Martin Kay, President       
 Richard Hodgson, an engineer and executive who did early development work in radar and television and played a role in the events that led to the creation of Silicon Valley, died on March 4 in Barbados. He was 83. He died of injuries from an automobile accident, a daughter, Brooke D
 Col. Thomas W. Ferebee, the bombardier who dropped the atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima in World War II, died on Thursday at his home in Windermere, Fla. He was 81. At 8:15:17 a.m. on Aug. 6, 1945, Colonel Ferebee, then a 26-year-old major, pushed a lever in his B-29 bo
 Joseph Marshall Parriott, the chief designer for a wide range of objects including the stainless-steel Steam-O-Matic steam iron, the WaterPik and a roomy and comfortable taxicab (which never went into production), died last Sunday at the Bassett Hospital in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 79 and l
 Nicolas Hardy Walter, a one-time choirboy who became an influential and indefatigable anarchist, atheist and humanist, died on March 7 in Milton Keynes in central England. He was 65. Mr. Walter, who lived in London, died of long-dormant testicular cancer, which he developed in 1973.
 ABRAM-Morris B. Funeral on Sunday, March 19, 3PM, Cape Cod Synagogue, 145 Winter Street, Hyannis, MA. Shiva thru Tuesday, March 21 at Abram home, 72 Whig St., Dennis, MA, and Wed, March 22, 3PM to Fri, March 24, 4PM at home of Ruth Abram and Herbert Teitelbaum, 110 Riverside Drive at West 8
 BARDWIL-Elias George. March 17, at the age of 80. Chairman and owner of Bardwil Linens of NYC. The firm was started in the early 1900s by Mr. Bardwil's grandfather and granduncle when they immigrated to America. At the age of 19, Elias moved to China, where he lived for 10 years, learning t
 DUFFY-Laurence E. Of Red Hook, NY; formerly of Manhattan. Died on March 15, 2000. Beloved companion of Valerie Roberts; devoted father of Krishni Kiffa and adoring grandfather of Sydnie Hyams. Also survived by a brother, Maurice (Mike) Duffy; a sister, Sheila Welsh; Corey and Meghan Roberts
 ECKLUND-John E. Died March 9 in New Haven, CT, partner in the law firm of Wiggin & Dana and Treasurer of Yale University from 1965-1978. Survived by his wife, Constance Cryer Ecklund, four children and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held June 3, 11AM at Battell Chapel, Yale 
 HOROWITZ-Stanley on March 17, 2000, after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Loving husband of Ruth; father of Bruce and Karen, Kenneth and Roberta, and Jodi and Mitchell Efros. Devoted grandfather to Margo, Danielle, Adam, Matthew, Jason, Russell, Joshua and Max. He was an inspiration 
 HUNTINGTON-Rev. Msgr. Christopher. Died peacefully on March 10, at age 89, at his residence at Kendal of Hanover, NH. Retired Pastor of Most Holy Trinity Church, East Hampton, NY. He served in the Parish of St. Aloysius, Great Neck, NY; was Dean of the College Division of St. Pius X Seminar
 KOWAL-John. Died March 18, at home with his immediate family, Deborah Guide, Lisa Kowal-Philipides and Robert Kowal. John was a loving father, and grandfather to Michele, David, Niko, Nakora and Rhys. He was a mentor and role model for his entire extended family and community. He will be lo
 KRINSKY-Arnold L. Died March 12, 2000 at the age of 68 after a courageous battle with myelodysplasia. Loving husband to Doreen for 15 years. Also survived by daughters Danelle, Laurel, Nancy and Carolyn and grandchildren Joshua, Jeremiah, Angela, Gabriel and Sepharia. Sisters Arlene (Norman
 LYNN-Edward J., 81, of Little Silver, New Jersey, on March 17, 2000, after a heart attack. Born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he grew up in South Amboy, New Jersey, where he graduated from St. Mary's High School in 1935. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1941 and flew 50 combat missions as 
 MACKLER-Alfred. The United Jewish Council of the East Side notes with sadness the death of Alfred Mackler. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Mel Zachter, Esq. Rabbi Yitzchok Singer, President Joel Kaplan, Esq., Exec Director       
 SILVERSTEIN-Philip I. On March 17, 2000, at the age of 88. Beloved husband of the late Esther. Dearly loved father of Harriet and Dr. Jerome Seiler, Jerome and Judyth Silverstein, Marsha Mirsky and Stanley Silverstein. Cherished grandfather of Drs. Sharon Seiler and Charles Spielholz, Cindy
 SOSNICK-Robert. The Board of Trustees and the National Committee of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend, Robert Sosnick. Bob's generosity and wide-ranging contribution to the Whitney's well-being are of enduring importance, and will alwa
 WEINBERG-Murray. On March 17, for 40 years husband of Greta; loving father of Lisa, Hernan and Daniel; brother of Robert, Seymour and Barbara; nephew of Sylvia and Richard Gersten, and Lillian Gersten. A kind, modest, generous man with a sunny disposition whose appreciation and love for fri
 WITTENBERG - Morris, died March 13th. Beloved by all who knew him. Loving brother of Sara Zalben, Wolf (Bill) and Hyman.       
 Sonny Hine, who owned and trained Skip Away, the Horse of the Year in 1998 and one of racing's stars of modern times, died Friday at a hospital in Miami. He was 69. Hialeah racing officials reported that Hine died of complications from pneumonia. He had been suffering from cancer si
 Bertrand Fox, an economist and expert on the securities industry who taught for more than 20 years at the Harvard Business School, died Tuesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 92. Mr. Fox, who lived in Lexington for 45 years, was the business school's director of research fro
 Bob Blackman, an innovative football coach at Dartmouth, Illinois and Cornell in a career that spanned 34 seasons, died Friday at a hospital in Burlingame, Calif. Blackman, who lived in Hilton Head, S.C., was 81. Blackman's wife, Katharine, said he was hospitalized while they were o
 ABRAM-Morris B. The National Conference on Soviet Jewry (NCSJ), its officers, Executive Committee, Board of Governors and staff mourn the loss of our former Chairman, a giant in the Jewish world and leading pioneer for civil rights in the U.S. and human rights worldwide, whose leadership an
 DENISON-Franklin A. Sr. Age 90, of Saugatuck, MI, and Ft. Lauderdale, FL, died Friday, March 17, 2000. In 1948, he and his late wife Gertrude purchased Broward Marine in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. In the mid 1970's he opened the Saugatuck Broward Marine plant at the mouth of the Kalamazoo River. B
 HODGSON-Richard. I am saddened by the sudden death of Richard Hodgson, a giant in the electronics industry. He was a very good friend and my lunch partner for 40 years. Dick, I'll miss you. Martin P. Rosenblum       
 KOWAL-John. Died March 18, at home with his immediate family, Deborah Guide, Lisa Kowal-Philipides and Robert Kowal. John was a loving father, and grandfather to Michele, David, Niko, Nakora and Rhys. He was a mentor and role model for his entire extended family and community. He will be lo
 MARONEY-Dr. George E. Our partner, Tom, is known as a brilliant lawyer. What he has shown us is what it means to be a loving son. Thank you Tom, for reminding us what is truly important in life. All our love to you, your mom, and your beloved wife, Michelle. Your partners, Eileen, Jim and B
 OBERG-James L. 82. Died March 18, 2000, in Old Lyme, CT. He was with M & T Chemicals, a division of American Can Corp., vice president of Bangor Punta Corp. and was president of Smith & Wesson until his retirement in 1982.       
 YANKAUER - William Platt. Passed away on March 18th in his 96th year. Husband of the late Marjorie Lobman Yankauer and uncle of Ellen Seibel and Theodore Yankauer III. Billy, as he was known to family and friends, was a ''hellraiser'' in his youth, a road runner long before jogging became p
 Rex Everhart, a character actor who appeared in 26 Broadway productions ranging from ''1776,'' in which he played Ben Franklin, to ''Working,'' for which he received a Tony Award nomination, died last Monday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 79. The cause was lung cancer, said 
 Roger Longrigg, a prolific British novelist who often wrote under pseudonyms, male and female, died on Feb. 26 at the Phyllis Tuckwell Hospice in Farnham, Surrey, England. He was 70. The cause of death was not announced, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Longrigg had a care
 J. Russell King, a deputy news editor of The New York Times who sharpened the prose of reporters, the precision of headlines and the meaning of news for readers with a learned, subtle and anonymous hand, died on Saturday night at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 45 and lived in 
 Adolf K. Placzek, a distinguished architectural librarian, historian, editor and preservationist, died on Sunday night at his home in Manhattan, said his nephew, John Maxtone-Graham. He was 87. Mr. Placzek transformed the Avery Architectural Library at Columbia University, where he 
 Harry McNally, a construction engineer with the Pennsylvania Railroad who was in charge of the demolition of Pennsylvania Station in 1963, died on March 11 at a hospital in Bradenton, Fla. He was 85. As the railroad's chief engineer for New York improvements from 1963 to 1967, Mr. M
 Herman B Wells, the president of Indiana University during 25 years of steady growth and social change, died on Saturday at age 97 at his home in Bloomington, Ind., not far off the campus of the university that was the center of his life for more than 70 years. Under Mr. Wells's lea
 Dr. Louis Weinstein, a founder of the modern medical specialty of infectious diseases and a leading medical educator, died on Thursday at a nursing home near his home in Newton, Mass. He was 92. ''He put clinical infectious diseases on the map and made it a very strong specialty,'' 
 Marshall B. Coyne, whose Madison Hotel brought a new level of luxury to the nation's capital, serving presidents, kings, prime ministers and celebrities like Frank Sinatra and Bob Hope, died at his home on Thursday. He was 89. Mr. Coyne, a native of Maspeth, N.Y., moved to Washingto
 ABRAM-Morris B. The Trustees and staff of the Lower East Side Tenement Museum extend their deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Morris B. Abram. Father to the Museum's President, Ruth J. Abram, Morris Abram was a great friend to and supporter of the Museum since its inception. A 
 COLMAN-Judge Charles. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Devoted father of Sandi Runes and Alison Weinger-Bernstein. Loving brother of Frieda Kriedman. Cherished grandfather of Bethany, Blake, Paige, Joshua and Haley. Service at 10 A.M., Wednesday at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Am
 HAINES-Thomas F.D., age 98, of New York City, died March 20, 2000. Husband of the late Marian F. Haines and brother of the late Henry Alexander Haines, he is survived by his daughter, Marian H. Minton, of Princeton, NJ; sons, Thomas D. Haines, of Brooklyn, New York, and Alexander Haines, of
 HANFLING-Nathan. Beloved husband of Felicia, dear uncle of Dr. Henry Safier, Felicia Davis, Philip, Robert, and Eugene Hanfling, Dr. Fred Endzweig, Joseph Endzweig, Pearl Cohen, Mark Bienstock, Leah Muroff, and their families. Founder of United Basket Company of New York, Honorary President
 HODGSON-Richard. I am saddened by the sudden death of Richard Hodgson, a giant in the electronics industry. He was a very good friend and my lunch partner for 40 years. Dick, I'll miss you. Martin P. Rosenblum       
 KNAPPMAN-William E., died March 19, 2000 at Middlesex Hospital, Middletown, Connecticut. He was born July 20, 1905, in Brooklyn, New York. He is survived by his loving wife of 67 years, Rena (Carpenter) Knappman. His son and daughter-in-law, Edward and Elizabeth and his granddaughter Amanda
 KOWAL-John. Manhattan Community Board Seven mourns the passing of our friend and leader, who was a member of the Board for over 20 years, serving as Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Chair of many committees. John loved the Upper West Side, fought passionately for a democratic and equitable
 MARONEY-Dr. George E. Our partner, Tom, is known as a brilliant lawyer. What he has shown us is what it means to be a loving son. Thank you Tom, for reminding us what is truly important in life. All our love to you, your mom, and your beloved wife, Michelle. Your partners, Eileen, Jim and B
 MARTIN-Key. Died March 18. A great organizer, an inspired union leader. Tenacious and imaginative. We do not see his like often. Guild members will miss him. Donna Cartwright, Joy Cook, Rose Mary Mechem, Betsy Wade       
 ORAVECZ-Rev. John. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Pastor Emeritus of Holy Family Church, Nassau Ave., Bklyn., on March 19. Reposing at Kraemer - McLoughlin Funeral Home, 220 Glen St., Glen Cove, NY., on Tuesday, March 21, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 P.M. Funeral Mass on Wedne
 PLACZEK-Adolf K. Dolf died peacefully at his home on March 20th, having recently celebrated his 87th birthday. Born in Vienna, he came to the United States in 1940. After serving three years in the U.S. Army, he returned to his position at the Avery Architectural Library of Columbia Univers
 POKART-Emanuel. The former partners and staff of Rashba & Pokart, P.C. mourn the passing of a founding partner and extend their condolences to the family. He will be missed.       
 SABESAN-Seymour R., D.D.S. March 19, 2000. Survived by his wife, Mildred; daughters, Nancy (Russell) Phelps & Elyse (Edwin) Ackerman; grandsons, Randall and Alexander; brother, Bernard. Graveside services on Tuesday at 2PM in Mount Lebanon Cemetery, Glendale. Family will receive at 235 Tree
 SAGER-Michael, 43, son of the late Jacqueline Perlman Sager and the late Jacob Sager died March 16, 2000 at Kingston Hospital. Formerly of NYC, Michael was a graduate of Bates College and had attended law school in California. He worked as an intern at the Ulster County District Attorney's 
 YANKAUER-William P. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital are profoundly saddened by the passing of our long-time friend and magnanimous donor William P. Yankauer, a staunch supporter of the Institution for many years. As an early
 Roy Henderson, a Scottish baritone who sang in the first performances at Glyndebourne and became a distinguished teacher with Kathleen Ferrier and John Shirley-Quirk among his students, died on Thursday at a home run by the British Musicians' Benevolent Fund in Bromley, Kent, near London. H
 Maj. Ivan Hirst, the British Army officer responsible for getting the Volkswagen factory running again after World War II in what is now Wolfsburg, Germany, died March 10 at his home near Marsden, in Yorkshire, England. He was 84. Without his efforts, Volkswagen probably could never
 BELL-Wilmot Kennedy, died on Wednesday, February 9, 2000, at Somers Manor, Somers, NY. The Pleasantville native was 97. Long active in village activities, he was a Captain of the Volunteer Fire Department Patrol Company, President of the University Club, a vestry man at St. John's Episcopal
 COPLAN-Joseph L., 54, of NYC was called home on March 12. Son of the late Maurice and Lucille Coplan, he is survived by brother Stephen and wonderful friends.       
 EINHORN-William died on March 11th, 2000 in West Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Lydia, devoted father of Stephen and Robert. Cherished grandfather to Jodi, Gregory, Daniel and Victoria. In 1949, Bill teamed up with television's first art teacher Jon Gnagy to produce and direct one 
 GOLDRING-Edwin I. Of Longboat Key and Buffalo, died March 18, 2000 in Sarasota, FL. Former Senior Vice President for Jacobson Stores, Inc. Predeceased by his wife, Vera, He is survived by his four children, six grandchildren, a great grandchild and his second wife, Judith. His strength, gen
 HAINES-Thomas F.D., age 98, of New York City, died March 20, 2000. Husband of the late Marian F. Haines and brother of the late Henry Alexander Haines, he is survived by his daughter, Marian H. Minton, of Princeton, NJ; sons, Thomas D. Haines, of Brooklyn, New York, and Alexander Haines, of
 HURLEY-John W. Age 74. Died at his home March 20, 2000. Devoted husband of Joan. Dear father of Mary LaCorte, Elizabeth O'Neill, Kathleen Durante, John P., James R. and Joan Marie Kwalwasser. Loving brother of Kathleen O'Connor and grandfather of twenty. Reposing at the Flynn Memorial Home 
 KELLER-Leo, MD, of Woodbridge, CT formerly of Neponsit, NY, died on March 20, 2000. For almost his entire professional career, Dr. Keller practiced in NYC most of which was spent as Director of Radiology at The French Hospital. He attended NYU for college and medical education, receiving hi
 KING-Rusty. For dear Rusty, whose friendship these last 28 years meant so much. You taught me about being a better person, a better friend, and a better doctor. My world will be a lesser place without you in it. The whole office sends deepest condolences to his Mom, Mary Ann, devoted sister
 KLEMPERER - Peter. Beloved husband of Judith. Father of Jerusha and Ethan, son of the late Helen and George Klemperer, brother of Fred Klemperer. Passed away on March 21, 2000. Born June 20, 1945, Peter was a graduate of the MIT Class of 1966. He devoted most of his professional life to man
 LEWIS-David J., 85, on March 15, 2000, after a long illness died peacefully at home with his loved ones beside him. Wife of 59 years, Gloria (nee Lehrer); children, Patricia and Gerald Borakove and Alisa and Richard Altabef; grandchildren, Jason, Nomi, Morry, Jacob and David. Services priva
 LEWIS-Hylan. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus of Sociology Hylan Lewis. His many years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Christoph M. Kimmich, President Brooklyn College       
 MAY-Mitchell III, 66, of Tuxedo Park, NY died on March 18 at his residence. He was an insurance broker for Frank Crystal & Co., New York, NY. Beloved husband of Gita (nee Wetterhall), and devoted father of Tracie & Samantha May & Patricia Webb, loving grandfather of six, and brother of Patr
 MITCHELL-Albert, 85, of Boca Raton, Fl., passed away on March 20. Beloved husband of Frances; devoted father of Martin, Lois, & Shelley; and stepfather of Carol Sommers, Edie Mueller, and Paul Aronowitz; doting grandfather of Sydney Mitchell, Sarah Longacre, & Audrey Tommassini; and doting 
 O'GRADY-Thomas B. Born Chaelis, Washington, June 24, 1926 passed away on Monday, March 20, 2000. He was a retired executive of UST, Inc. where he had a long and celebrated career for 42 years, retiring as Vice Chairman of the corporation in 1991. In recent years, Mr. O'Grady devoted his tim
 SCHULTZ-Edward J. Passed on March 18th. Husband of Attracta. He practiced law in New York City for many years. Sadly missed by his loving wife, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, nieces and nephews.       
 WEAVER-William B. On March 21, 2000, beloved husband of Beth, loving father of Courtney and Charlotte, devoted son of Leonard and Dorothy Weaver, loving brother of Steven and David. He was a prominent investment banker and President of Weaver Capital. He will be deeply missed by all who kne
 Ramon Mitra, who rose from rural poverty to become a leading politician and democratic foe of the Marcos dictatorship in the Philippines, died on Monday in Manila. He was 72. Local news reports, citing family sources, said the cause was liver cancer. During his career, Mr. M
 Erard A. Matthiessen, an architect and conservationist, died on March 8 at the home of a friend in Sanibel, Fla. He was 97. Mr. Matthiessen, who lived in Irvington, N.Y., and on Fishers Island in New York, was a partner at the architecture firm of Henry Otis Chapman & Son in New Yor
 Kazimierz Brandys, a prolific novelist and diarist who began his career as a promoter of Socialist Realism in Poland and ended it in exile in Paris, died here on March 11. He was 83. Already well known in his homeland, Mr. Brandys came to the attention of American readers in 1984 wi
 BURKE-Paul E. Esq., 56, formerly of NY City and Croton-on-Hudson died suddenly, Tuesday, March 21, 2000 at his home in Thurman, NY. Mr. Burke was a Trial & Corporate Pension Attorney       
 CONNELLY-Albert Ray, died March 22, 2000, in his 92nd year after a long illness. Retired partner of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Husband of the late Eleanor Milburn Connelly. Survived by his daughters, Mary C. Graff of Urbanna, VA, and Jean C. Mooney of Healdsburg, CA, by his granddaughters, Cl
 GLAUBMAN-Milton. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our longtime member, Milton Glaubman, who died on March 22nd, 2000. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his family and friends. The Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 GOODMAN - Robert Benjamin (Robbie). On March 21, 2000. Beloved son of Evelyn and Steven. Loving brother of Beth, Jeffrey, Brianne and Blair. Dear uncle of Jacob. Brother-in-law of Douglas Nadler. Robbie graduated the Mamaroneck Special Education System in 1990. He will be remembered as a ha
 HANFLING-Nathan. Congregation Machane Chodosh mourns the passing of its beloved member Nathan Hanfling, who was, and always will be remembered as a man of piety and goodness, modesty and generosity. We express our deepest sympathy to his bereaved wife, Felicia, and to his family. May Hashem
 KLEMPERER - Peter. Beloved husband of Judith. Father of Jerusha and Ethan, son of the late Helen and George Klemperer, brother of Fred Klemperer. Passed away on March 21, 2000. Born June 20, 1945, Peter was a graduate of the MIT Class of 1966. He devoted most of his professional life to man
 MACAULEY-Walter P. In Fla., March 20, husband of Mary L. Macauley of 4601 Sanderling Cir West, Boynton Beach, Fla. formerly of Hamden, Conn. father of Walter W. of N.C. and Ann M. Anderson of Florida. Mass in St. Rita Church, Whitney Avenue, Hamden, Conn. Friday at 10 A.M. He was retired se
 MEYER-August Robert. Of Belmont, MA. Died March 14, 2000 at home. He is survived by his wife Henrietta N. (Rita); his brother Henry H. Meyer, Jr., Matunic, RI; his sister Martha M. Douglas, Cohasset, MA; his children August R. Meyer, Jr., Natalie M. Bent, Peter B. Meyer, all of Essex, MA, N
 PUCHIR-Michael III, age 85 on Friday, March 17, 2000, formerly of Sewickley, PA. Husband of Barbara M. Jankowski Puchir. Father of Barbara Ann Puchir Porter of Springdale, New Jersey. Brother of Mrs. Howard (Anne Puchir) Maher of Columbus, Ohio and Mrs. John (Margaret Puchir) Woodling of Wh
 ROCHE-Edward P. Born July 11, 1928 in the Bronx, NY. He grew up in Saint Margaret's Parish in Riverdale and graduated from Manhattan Prep. Mr. Roche served as a paratrooper with the 188th Parachute Infantry Regiment of the US Army, receiving an honorable discharge. Mr. Roche attended Manhat
 ROHTSTEIN-Sandra. On Wednesday, March 22. Of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of Hull, MA. Loving mother of Eliot C. Nisenbaum and his partner Ronald Sandberg of Fort Lee, NJ and Risa Nisenbaum of Boston, MA. Dear sister of George and Dena Rohtstein of Chestnut Hill, MA. Sister-in-law of Harvey and S
 ROUNICK-Jack A. Born November 14, 1926. Of New York, Easthampton and Miami, passed on Monday, March 20, 2000 in Miami, Fla. after a long illness. Former President of Ma-Ro Hosiery and Rex Knitting Mills. Son of Max and Bessie Rounick and brother of the late Herbert Rounick. He is survived b
 SEIDEMAN-Emanuel (Manny), at age 83, after a valiant struggle. A compassionate man filled with humor, kindness and optimism. Survived by his loving wife, Ruth of 62 years. Dearest respected father to Ellen and Larry, Barbara and Peter, Lisa and Charles; most adored grandfather to Michael, B
 Ross Russell, who recorded Charlie Parker on his small independent jazz label, Dial Records, and wrote a biography of Parker as well as a book on the history of Kansas City jazz, died on Jan. 31 at a hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 90. Mr. Russell was born and raised in Los 
 BINA-HaRabanit Rachel. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed colleague and friend, Rabbi Aharon Bina, who heads the overseas program at Yeshivat HaKotel in Jerusalem and who has had a profound impact on many of our alumni. We extend heartfelt condo
 BURKE-Paul E. Esq., 56, formerly of NY City and Croton-on-Hudson died suddenly, Tuesday, March 21, 2000 at his home in Thurman, NY. Mr. Burke was a Trial & Corporate Pension Attorney       
 CONNELLY-Albert Ray, died March 22, 2000, in his 92nd year after a long illness. Retired partner of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Husband of the late Eleanor Milburn Connelly. Survived by his daughters, Mary C. Graff of Urbanna, VA, and Jean C. Mooney of Healdsburg, CA, by his granddaughters, Cl
 KLEMPERER-Peter. The management and staff of Greater New York Hospital Association deeply mourn the passing of Peter Klemperer. Peter was one of our most brilliant and trusted advisers on the full range of financial, reimbursement, and strategic issues facing the hospital community. He was 
 MAY-Mitchell III, 66, of Tuxedo Park, NY died on March 18 at his residence. He was an insurance broker for Frank Crystal & Co., New York, NY. Beloved husband of Gita (nee Wetterhall), and devoted father of Tracie & Samantha May & Patricia Webb, loving grandfather of six, and brother of Patr
 PLACZEK-Adolf. Colleagues at Avery Library and Columbia University mourn the passing of Dolf Placzek, Avery Librarian, teacher and scholar. Dolf's passion and dedication to Avery Library are a lasting contribution to architectural scholarship. We extend our deepest sympathies to his widow, 
 SEIDEMAN-Emanuel (Manny), at age 83, after a valiant struggle. A compassionate man filled with humor, kindness and optimism. Survived by his loving wife, Ruth of 62 years. Dearest respected father to Ellen and Larry, Barbara and Peter, Lisa and Charles; most adored grandfather to Michael, B
 ZEVELOFF-Leo L. On March 22, 2000. Treasured husband of Sylvia and the late Rosalind. Loving father of Joe and Leslie, grandfather of Noah. Dear brother and uncle. He will be greatly missed. Funeral service Friday, March 24, 1 P.M., John Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave. (69-70 Streets), 
 GERMAIN-Lawrence, 9th Anniversary. Precious memories, my husband Lawrence. Passed away March 24, 1991. Lord, I know you are always busy, for you have many things to do, but when sorrow overcomes me, well I need to talk to you. For I lost my husband Lawrence, he is with you up above. He is s
 Mark Lombardi, an artist whose elegant, minutely detailed diagrams of political and financial scandals brought a distinctive voice to late Conceptualism, was found hanged in his loft in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, on Wednesday evening, the police said. He was 48. A spokesman for the 90t
 CONNELLY-Albert Ray, died March 22, 2000, in his 92nd year after a long illness. Retired partner of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Husband of the late Eleanor Milburn Connelly. Survived by his daughters, Mary C. Graff of Urbanna, VA, and Jean C. Mooney of Healdsburg, CA, by his granddaughters, Cl
 GORDON-Gustave G., M.D. At 87 years of age, after a long and courageous struggle with Parkinson's disease. Beloved husband of Adeline (Addy), adoring father of Miriam Gordon, Joanne G. Sampson, Leonore Gordon and daughter-inlaw Amina Rachman. Loving ''Papa'' to Matthew, Rachel and Joshua. D
 KAHN-George. March 22, in his 94th year. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Survived by his brothers, Herbert and Harvey, and sister, Sylvia Mann, & loving nieces & nephews. A very special person. Service Sunday, 11:30AM, ''The Riverside'', 76th and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 KLEMPERER-Peter. Colleagues from the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation will always remember and miss Peter Klemperer-a much-valued guide and friend. Peter brought a broad range of knowledge and a unique vision to the Corporation for more than a quarter-century. Peter's thinking
 LEOKUM-Leonard a.k.a. Mr. Lenny. On March 24, 2000 at age 58. Husband, Father, Grandfather, Godfather, Brother, Son, Artist, Writer, Creative Director and most generous friend. He was passionate about his family, his friends and the game of Jeopardy. He loved the sunshine, swimming pools, b
 LUMPKINS-William, 90, native New Mexican and longtime Santa Fe resident, passed away March 20. Artist, architect, author, solar energy pioneer, founder of the Santa Fe Art Institute; his many friends mourn his loss, his strength & his gentleness, & offer condolences to his wife, Norma, his 
 MESNICK-Sheldon. March 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Elaine for 33 years. Devoted Dad of Mishie, Susan and Marcia and sonsin-law Greg, Sam and David and adoring Poppy of Joshua, Rachel, Mikey and Becky. Shelly's sweet smile, gentleness, enthusiasm, love and laughter will be a cherished memor
 PLACZEK-Adolf K. The Commissioners and Staff of the New York City Landmarks Preservation commission note with great sadness the passing of Commissioner Adolf K. Placzek, who served with dedication from 1984 to 1993. Our hearts and thoughts are with his family.       
 SEIDEMAN-Emanuel (Manny), at age 83, after a valiant struggle. A compassionate man filled with humor, kindness and optimism. Survived by his loving wife, Ruth of 62 years. Dearest respected father to Ellen and Larry, Barbara and Peter, Lisa and Charles; most adored grandfather to Michael, B
 Warren Egbert Magee, a lawyer who represented Nazi war criminals, corrupt politicians and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, died on Feb. 25 in Washington. He was 91. Mr. Magee represented the last seven Nazi war criminals condemned to death at the Nuremberg trials and then hanged after Wo
 Dr. Bernard D. Challenor, a longtime public health educator at Columbia University, died March 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause of death was a heart attack, said Jeanne M. Stellman, a colleague at Columbia. Dr. Challenor was a professor at the Joseph L. Mail
 Ferenc Berko, a Hungarian-born photographer who was a pioneer in the use of color film and helped to put Aspen, Colo., prominently on the map, died on March 18 at a hospital in Aspen where he had lived for half a century. He was 84. After capturing faces, places and figures througho
 ARONSON-Reuben J. We mourn the loss of our associate who represented the highest standards of our profession. An attorney of impeccable character and outstanding scholarship, above all Reuben was a concerned and understanding friend. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Edith, and 
 DORF-Martin E., 54, died Stamford, CT. A leading architect and designer, he specialized in restaurant, retail and entertainment projects. He completed the awardwinning design for the California Grill restaurant at the Contemporary Hotel in Disney World. He was inducted into Hospitality Desi
 FISHMAN-Jack, M.D. Of NYC and Delray Beach, FL at age 91. We deeply mourn the loss of our loving father. He was a dedicated surgeon and compassionate family practitioner in NYC for over half a century. During the Second World War he was a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy, where he was 
 FUHRMAN-Joseph. Devoted husband and best friend of Ruth for fifty years. Beloved brother-in-law of Beatrice Koren and Helen Raticoff, and most adored uncle, grand-uncle, great-grand-uncle of many devoted nieces and nephews. Shiva at residence. FUHRMAN-Joseph. The Officers, Trustees,
 GLAUBMAN - Milton (Mickey). Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of Marcia Hain Engle, Risa Dickstein and Donna Leader. Dear father-in-law of Morton Engle. Cherished grandfather of Pamela and Neil Koenigsburg, Andrew and Joseph Hain, Isabel and Anthony Dickstein, and Seth and Jaimie L
 JAFFESS-Herbert, much loved by his family and friends passed away March 21, 2000. Loving and devoted husband of Renee, dearest father of Judy, Barbara and David, and cherished grandfather of Douglas, Jeffrey and Emily. Respected by his colleagues as a General Contractor in New York and Flor
 KAHN-George. March 22, in his 94th year. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Survived by his brothers, Herbert and Harvey, and sister, Sylvia Mann, & loving nieces & nephews. A very special person. Service Sunday, 11:30AM, ''The Riverside'', 76th and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 PLACZEK-Adolf K. Dolf died peacefully at his home on March 20th, having recently celebrated his 87th birthday. Born in Vienna, he came to the United States in 1940. After serving three years in the U.S. Army, he returned to his position at the Avery Architectural Library of Columbia Univers
 SASH-Jerry (Pleshky). Of Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of New York, on March 12, 2000. A cherished, devoted and an unconditionally loving husband, father, brother, zaydie, uncle and friend. We will miss him every minute of everyday. Barbara, Stacey, Alec and Terri       
 SEIDEMAN-Emanuel (Manny), at age 83, after a valiant struggle. A compassionate man filled with humor, kindness and optimism. Survived by his loving wife, Ruth of 62 years. Dearest respected father to Ellen and Larry, Barbara and Peter, Lisa and Charles; most adored grandfather to Michael, B
 SHOUP-Carl S., on March 23rd, 2000 at the age of 97. Survived by his daughter, Dale S. Mayer of Center Sandwich, NH; his son, Paul S. Shoup of Charlottesville, VA; eight grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. Memorial donations may be made to the Sandwich Caregivers, Center Sandwich, N
 SPRINGER-Alexander. March 11, 2000, Laguna Hills, CA. Dearly beloved husband of Arlene. Father of Elyse and Diane. Father-in-law of Lee. Grandfather of Josh and Zach. Brother of Jack. He worked in the composing room of The New York Times for 25 years. Donations in his name may be made to th
 TURNER-Rogers. Gouache still life painter died March 23 in his 91st year. Survived by sister Elizabeth Waller of Shreveport, LA, Rev. Stephen Waller of Dallas, Melinda Mangham of Lafayette, LA, and his lifelong companion Ernest R. Park of NYC.       
 The trombonist Al Grey, a member of the Count Basie band through various stretches from 1957 to 1977 and a strong, humorous improviser, died on Friday at a hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 74 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. The cause was complications from diabetes, said his compa
 Edward F. Knipling, whose revolutionary approach to agricultural pest control helped banish the once fearsome screwworm, died on March 17 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was three days shy of his 91st birthday. Dr. Knipling, for many years the top entomologist at the federal Depart
 EINSIDLER-Robert. In Pelham, NH, on March 21. Husband of the late Nellie J. (Weeks) Einsidler. Father of nine. Retired Safety Officer, Children's Hospital, Boston. Retired Chief Petty Officer, U.S. Navy for 26 years. WW II veteran. Memorial service today at First Congregational Church of Pe
 ERLICH-Murry. Beloved husband of Helen. Dearest father of Senia and Shelley. Loving father-in-law of Mark and Steven. Cherished grandfather of Jeremy, Joshua, Andrew and Elisabeth. You will be in our hearts forever. Shiva will be observed daily at the Erlich home from 5-10 PM. ERLIC
 GLATSTEIN-Sam. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Sam Glatstein, beloved father of our devoted members Sol and Susan Glatstein, grandfather of Jonathan, early childhood student Alana, and Michael. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President 
 GRAHAM-Jacob J., M.D. On March 25, 2000, at age 76. Dedicated physician. Beloved husband of Joan. Loving father of Joy and Jill and father-in-law of Sam Levine and Jonathan Klein. Adoring grandfather of Zoe and Zachary. Dear brother of Elaine Robbins. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 
 MONROE-Daniel. Of Harrison, NY, died March 19, 2000. He was 68. Born in Brooklyn May 18, 1931, to Rudolph and Sarah (Spitzer) Monroe. He married Mary Rita Hennelly. Daniel was a general physician for 40 years in the Westchester County area. Husband of Mary Rita, father of Brenda Monroe and 
 PETTY-William L. Former Executive Director and Board member of Clearpool, Inc., passed March 21, 2000. There are no words adequate to express the void his loss creates for all who knew and loved him. Bill's extraordinary record of service during World War II and almost 40 years of devoted s
 ROFFER-Monroe. On March 25. Brought family and friends together in his homes in NY and FL. Service Wednesday, 11 AM, Lincoln Park Jewish Center, Yonkers.       
 SAUNDERS-John D. Age 73 of Plandome, NY, died suddenly on March 23. Devoted husband of Barbara for 44 years. Beloved father of David of NYC and Leslie Hueglin of Wilton, CT. Cherished grandfather of David Jr., Hillary, Colton Saunders and Kathryn, Karl, and Allison Hueglin. Loving brother o
 WINTER-Rabbi Fritz. We record with sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in Germany at the Hochschule, he emigrated to South America and in 1950 became the rabbi to the Central European Jews of Uruguay. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Hanna and his children
 Sig Mickelson, who as the first director of CBS television news attended at the birth of what became one of the nation's most powerful news organizations before moving into a second career in government and academia, died Friday evening in San Diego. He was 86. In his years with CBS
 Albert R. Connelly, a retired partner at the New York law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, died at his home in Manhattan last Wednesday. He was 91. Mr. Connelly spent his entire professional career, from 1932 to 1978, at the law firm. He became a partner in 1941 and practiced in man
 Glenn Exum, a mountain climber who conquered the summits of the Alps and the Rockies and shared his experience with hundreds of others through his guide service, died on March 17 at his home in Littleton, Colo. He was 88. A tall, debonair man, Mr. Exum established one of the routes 
 Klaus Piper, a German publisher who helped build his family's business into one of Europe's most respected intellectual imprints, died on Saturday at his home in Munich. He was 88. Mr. Piper (pronounced PEE-per) learned the trade after joining his family's publishing house in 1932 a
 COMFORT-George V. The widow and family of George V. Comfort mourn his loss at the age of 86 on Monday, March 27, 2000, after a brief illness. Visiting hours are scheduled for 7:00 to 9:00 P.M. on Tuesday, March 28 at the Waterbury & Kelly Funeral Home, 1300 Pleasantville Road, Briarcliff Ma
 ERLICH-Murry. With deepest sorrow, on the passing of my dearest childhood friend whose gentle ways and kindness always will be remembered. We will miss him dearly. Turbiner and Lehman Families       
 FIERST-Sidney M., MD, March 26, 2000. Pioneer and world renowned in the field of gastroenterology during his affiliations w/Maimonides, Brooklyn and Brookdale Hospitals. Professor of Medicine at Downstate Medical School. Beloved by his students and patients for his teaching and diagnostic a
 GRAHAM-Jacob J., M.D. On March 25, 2000, at age 76. Dedicated physician. Beloved husband of Joan. Loving father of Joy and Jill and father-in-law of Sam Levine and Jonathan Klein. Adoring grandfather of Zoe and Zachary. Dear brother of Elaine Robbins. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 
 HOCHHEISER - Robert, died March 27. A longtime resident of Wesley Hills, NY, he is survived by sons Harry and David Hochheiser, sister Marilyn Sapiro, and many friends and family. Hoch's humor and humanity will be greatly missed.       
 HUNTER-James Hewat ''Bing''. Of Manchester, VT, Sea Island, GA and Delray Beach, FL, died Thursday, March 23rd at his home in Delray Beach. Survivors include his wife, Irene Mennen Hunter, and his four children: Elizabeth Solomon of Washington, DC, James M. Hunter of Williamstown, MA, Barba
 PAPELL-Robert. On March 26, 2000. Former Branch Librarian for the Queensboro Public Library. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of David and father-in-law of Bonnie. Adored grandfather to Darci and Marisa. Services Wednesday, March 29, 2000 at 2:00 PM, West End Synagogue, 190 Amsterdam
 POLLERT-William, of Southold, Long Island, New York died on Saturday, March 25, 2000 at the age of 90. Mr. Pollert, a chemical engineer, graduated Stuyvesant High School and Cooper Union. He received his Master's degree in engineering from New York University. Mr. Pollert was the president 
 SCHNEIDERMAN - Harry. Died peacefully at his home on Friday, March 24, 2000. He was in his 90th year. Beloved husband of the late Shirley, dear father of Ivan, Marcia and the late Ellen and adored grandfather of Deborah, David, Leah and Jake. He was the proprietor of a webbing company. Buri
 Raymond Katz, a television and theatrical producer and a personal manager, died on Thursday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 83 and lived in Los Angeles. From 1970 to 1985 Mr. Katz, with his partner and cousin Sandy Gallin, ran a management and production business that created t
 Dr. Alex Comfort, whose graphically illustrated 1972 book ''The Joy of Sex'' became the coffee-table Kama Sutra of the baby-boom generation, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Banbury, northwest of London. He was 80. Dr. Comfort noisily regretted that his hurriedly written book (by
 Henry W. McGee Sr., the first black postmaster in Chicago, died on March 18 at his home in Chicago. He was 90. Mr. McGee became postmaster in 1966 and retired in 1973. He began his career at the post office as a temporary substitute clerk in 1929 and became a full-time clerk in 1935
 Mark Stuart, a longtime newspaper columnist and editor at The Record in Hackensack, N.J., and The Paterson Morning Call, died Friday at the Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 80. The cause was pneumonia complicated by Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Melba, from their home
 BELLAK-Leopold, MD. Beloved father of Trina Bellak, Esquire of Maryland and Kerin Adams of New Jersey. Loving grandfather of Dina Adams. Devoted friend of his wife of many years, Sonya Sorel Bellak, brother of Ludwig (deceased). Died on March 24, 2000 of pneumonia. Dr. Bellak was a psychoan
 COMFORT-George V. Philip Morris Companies Inc. notes with sorrow the passing on March 27, 2000, of retired Philip Morris Board member George V. ''Dan'' Comfort. Mr. Comfort served as a member of the Philip Morris Board of Directors from 1971 until his retirement in 1982. He was named Direct
 GOODSELL-Percy Hamilton, Jr., 89, of 77 Tress Road, Cheshire, CT, died March 24, 2000. Born in Hartford, CT., September 24, 1910 and the only child of Percy and Katharine (Seymour) (Day) (Jackson) Goodsell. He worked as a genealogist with The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society, 
 HALL-J. Parker, Jr., former University of Chicago treasurer for 23 years, pioneer in innovative investing, died March 23, 2000 at age 94. He worked on Wall Street 17 years, was a trustee of TIAACREF, founding trustee of The Common Fund. He helped found the Financial Analysts Federation and 
 HARRIS-Reginald. The William Morris Agency mourns the passing of its esteemed client and beloved friend, Reginald Harris, and extends our deepest sympathy to the family he loved so much-his wife Diane and his children Rachel and Darren. He was a person with deep reservoirs of love and goodn
 JOSEPH-Irving, 75, noted pianist, conductor and musical director, died suddenly on Tuesday, March 28, after a brief illness. Funeral services will be held Friday, March 31, at noon, at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street. A memorial service will be announced at a later date.
 LIPMAN-Samuel. On March 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Penny and the late Roberta Lipman. Devoted father of Larry, Beth and Donna. Loving grandfather of Reed. Sandy's humor, loving spirit and infectious personality are irreplaceable in our hearts and shall be greatly missed. Services Wednesda
 MCCURDY-Ed, passed away March 23, 2000, in Nova Scotia. He was 81 years old. His wife Beryl, his three children, Mary, James, and Dana, three grandchildren and a sister and a brother in Pennsylvania survive him. He was born in Pennsylvania in 1919. His career as a singer, writer, and actor 
 SALAWAY-Alex. On March 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Agnes. Loving father of Jeffrey, Marilyn, Elizabeth, Toni & Stewart. Adoring grandfather to Rebecca, Jessica, Noah & Sara. Services Wednesday, 11:15AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. SALAWAY-Alex. The National
 SERVODIDIO - Joseph Vincent. March 27, 2000. The family of Joseph Servodidio profoundly mourns the loss of his luminous presence and his unconditional devotion. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the Joseph Servodidio Scholarship Fund at Marymount College, Tarryto
 STEEGER-Shirley Meeker. On Friday, March 24, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Henry Steeger, devoted mother of Suzanne Steeger Hall, Nancy Steeger Jennings and her husband, Richard, the late Henry Steeger IV and his wife, Betsey. Adored grandmother of Chris Hall and his wife, Michaela, Jeremy
 Will Lissner, a reporter for The New York Times from 1926 until he retired in 1976, died on Saturday in a nursing home in Dunedin, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Clearwater, Fla. For many years, Mr. Lissner specialized in writing about economics, but his varied assignments as a reporte
 Anthony Powell, the English novelist whose 12-volume work, ''A Dance to the Music of Time,'' is regarded as one of the great achievements of postwar literature, died on Tuesday at his home near Frome in  Somerset, England. He was 94. Mr. Powell -- his name rhymes with Lowell -- was 
 Dr. Leopold Bellak, a psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and psychologist best known for his contributions in the fields of psychological testing and abnormal psychology, died on Friday at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. A resident of neighboring Larchmont, he was 83. The cause was pneu
 ANDON-Ashod J., 75, on March 28, 2000 at his home in Vero Beach, Florida. Born in Pelham, New York on December 15, 1924, Mr. Andon grew up there and graduated from Pelham Memorial High School in 1943. He graduated with honors from Yale University in 1946. In 1949, at age 24, he founded TIC 
 APPEL-Louis, M.D. March 25, 2000. Beloved husband of Rhoda, father, brother, grandfather and great-grandfather. Dedicated pediatrician for fifty years. He will remain forever in our hearts. Donations can be sent to the Alzheimers Association.       
 BECKER-Gerald H. March 28, 2000 of Palm Beach, FL. Formerly of Hewlett Bay Park, NY. Beloved husband of the late Shirley. Cherished father of Betsy Becker, Ellen Kaplan (Marc), Amy Cohen (Joel), and Robin Kaver (Denis). Adored grandfather of Marc and Stefanie Becker, Allison, Michael and De
 BOOTH-Dave. In this time of utmost grief, we send our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. His Friends at Futures       
 DRILLMAN-Rabbi Solomon. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of an eminent rosh yeshiva and Torah educator who was Eva, Morris, and Jack K. Rubin Memorial Professor of Rabbinics at RIETS. Warmly revered as scholar and mentor, the 
 FIERST-Sidney, MD. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Sidney Fierst. Dr. Fierst practiced medicine in Brooklyn for over 50 years. He was a Gastroenterologist and prior Director of The Gastroenterology Division at Maimonides Medical Cente
 GOLDMAN-Byron. On March 28, 2000. Loving son of the late Morris & Hattie Goldman and brother of the late Justin Goldman. Devoted uncle of Barbara, Robert & Larry Goldman and great-uncle to their six children. Beloved cousin of Judge Morris Goldman, Estelle Freedman, Alfred Gardner, William 
 GRANT-Virgil V., 87, died March 29 in Atlanta after a long illness. He was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and a Director of Caterpillar. He had been elected Treasurer in 1946 at the age of 33, then the youngest officer in the company's history. He was named president of 
 HARRIS-Reggie. The staff and members of the Writers Guild of America, East, are greatly saddened by the loss of a respected colleague & strong trade unionist. We remember with admiration Reggie's brave support for his writer colleagues during their 1987 strike at CBS. We deeply respected Re
 KIRSCHENBAUM-M.A. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member M.A. Kirschenbaum our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him
 LIPMAN-Samuel. Our hearts are broken for Penny, Donna, Larry, Beth and Reed. They have lost a wonderful man. No one could have asked for a better husband, father and grandfather. We will always remember his wit, kindness and warmth. He was and will remain part of our family. Linda, Warren, 
 MERCANDO-Dominic. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center note with deep sorrow the death of Dominic Mercando, father of Anthony Mercando, MD, our respected colleague and president of Montefiore's Medical Staff. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his sons, Antho
 MOLOFSKY-Belle. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the hospital's Hyman-Newman Institute for Neurology & Neurosurgery (INN), and the Alan and Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Belle Molofsky, 
 MORDAUNT-John Walter Potter III, 51, of Wappingers Falls, NY, died March 26, 2000 after a short illness. Born Feb. 14, 1949 in New York City, he was a son of Norma Parisi and John W.P. Mordaunt Jr. He leaves behind two sisters, Karen Adrienne Napier of California and Dodie Elizabeth Hartiga
 SCHEER-Seymour. On March 27, 2000 in California. Beloved husband of the late Hilda S. Devoted father of J. Herbert (Ina) and Janet (Jerry) Elgarten. Cherished grandfather of Ellen (Steve) Lippa, Susan (Jeremy) Trumble, Jeffrey (Abby) and Helene (Shawn) Goldberg, and great grandfather of Rob
 STEEGER-Shirley Meeker. On Friday, March 24, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Henry Steeger, devoted mother of Suzanne Steeger Hall, Nancy Steeger Jennings and her husband, Richard, the late Henry Steeger IV and his wife, Betsey. Adored grandmother of Chris Hall and his wife, Michaela, Jeremy
 WEINBERGER-Arthur. On March 29, 2000. Much loved by his family, associates and friends. Devoted husband of Geri. Cherished father of Mitchel and David Weinberger & Jamie Runyon. Adored fatherin-law of Bridget and Jennifer Weinberger and Adam Runyon. Dear son-in-law of Alene Schmidt. Brother
 WESTON-Jeffrey. Our sorrows are with aunt Beverly, Irene, Samantha and Burton as we all mourn the loss of our dear cousin, friend and partner. We'll miss the good times. Allan, Barbara, Richard Sharkey WESTON-Jeffrey. Officers and members of the Board of Trustees of the BSSC are dee
 Adam B. Ulam, a Harvard historian known for his shrewd understanding of the inner workings of the Soviet Union, particularly at the time of Lenin and Stalin, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 77. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. In the days before h
 Carl S. Shoup, a Columbia University economist who oversaw the creation of a modern tax system for Japan after World War II, helped invent the value-added tax and made a major study of ways Americans could be taxed, died March 23 at a nursing home in Laconia, N.H. He was 97. Many of
 Ian Dury, an emblem of the English punk music movement, died on Monday at his home in Hampstead, London. He was 57. The cause was liver cancer; Mr. Dury had made his illness public in 1998. Though ailing, Mr. Dury had performed last month at the London Palladium and continued his lo
 BECKER-Gerald H. Poppa, love always Marc, Stefanie, Allison, Michael, Debbie, Maggie, Matthew, Sammy, Andrew and Amanda. BECKER-Gerald H. March 28, 2000 of Palm Beach, Florida. Formerly of Hewlett Bay Park, New York. Beloved husband of the late Shirley . Cherished father of Betsy Be
 BRODY-Charles, M.D. Beloved husband of Ethel. Cherished father of Sam and Jane, Paul and Heidi. Loving grandfather of Kate, Isaac, Rebecca and Jacob. A long time physician in Elmont. One of the co-founders of Franklin General Hospital. He was the Founding Director of its Psychiatric Unit. H
 CONNELLY-Albert R. The Alumni Associates of the Yale University Dramatic Association notes with sadness the passing of its Chairman Emeritus and one of its founding members whose commitment to the Dramat was instrumental in ensuring its stability and future. We extend our heartfelt condolen
 FEIT-Akiva. The partners and staff of Billet Feit and Preis mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and partner. With expressions of deep sympathy to his wife, Sheila and to his entire family. May you be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 GOLDMAN-Byron. On March 28, 2000. Loving son of the late Morris & Hattie Goldman and brother of the late Justin Goldman. Devoted uncle of Barbara, Robert & Larry Goldman and great-uncle to their six children. Beloved cousin of Judge Morris Goldman, Estelle Freedman, Alfred Gardner, William 
 LIPMAN-Samuel. Our hearts are full of sorrow upon the sudden passing of our beloved Sandy, a friend to Richard, David and Bonnie for over 50 years, and to the rest of us for all our lives, his love, wit and charm will be sorely missed. The Maidman Family LIPMAN-Samuel. Farewell, our
 RANDALL-Richard C. Beloved, devoted husband of Gladys. Adoring father of Barbara Randall, Professor Lisa Randall, and Professor Dana Randall. Dear son, brother, brother-in-law and uncle. We celebrate his life as we deeply mourn his passing. Services will be held on Sunday, April 2, at 11:15
 ROSENBERG-Yaakov. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the passing of Yaakov Rosenberg, whose dedication to Judaism and love for Israel left a lasting impact on JTS and the Conservative movement. Rabbi Rosenberg served for eight years as vice chancellor for development
 WEINBERGER-Arthur. On March 29, 2000. Much loved by his family, associates and friends. Devoted husband of Geri. Cherished father of Mitchel and David Weinberger & Jamie Runyon. Adored fatherin-law of Bridget and Jennifer Weinberger and Adam Runyon. Dear son-in-law of Alene Schmidt. Brother
 Rudolf Kirchschlager, the popular and widely respected president of Austria from 1974 to 1986, died of a heart attack yesterday, a government spokesman in Vienna announced. He had just turned 85 and lived in Vienna. A political outsider, a former judge and career diplomat, Mr. Kirch
