 Bernard Johnson, a dancer, choreographer and fashion and costume designer, died on Jan. 22 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Johnson was something of a Renaissance
 Charles E. Inniss, a retired vice president of the Brooklyn Union Gas Company and the chairman of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, died on Thursday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Mr. Inniss, who lived in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, was 61.  
 George W. Mitchell, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and tireless promoter of electronic banking, died last Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 92 and lived in Arlington, Va. The cause was a heart attack, the Arlington Funeral Home sai
 John P. Mohr, the crusty, poker-playing F.B.I. official who became a member of J. Edgar Hoover's inner circle and later played a central role in the mysterious disappearance of Hoover's legendary files on politicians, died last Saturday at a hospital near his home in Arlington, Va. He was 8
 BLOOM-Eli. Loving friend of Chan Jones. Adored father of Edward and Laura. Cherished grandfather of Molly and Max Bloom, and Miles Chandler. Dear brother of Jeanette Bronstein. He was a mentor to many and a friend to all. An icon in the automotive industry. Oh how we miss you, Dear Eli. Mem
 BOVEE-John Christopher. Jan. 31, 1997, at home from complications due to AIDS. Survived by his mother, Doris Abeel Bovee, his maternal grandfather, Joseph Abeel and his companion, David R. McGehean. He was pre-deceased by his father, Eugene Leon Bovee and his brother Eugene Joseph Bovee. Fr
 diPIPPO-Leonard, Jr. It is with deep sorrow that we note the passing of Leonard diPippo, Jr., Vice President of Real Estate for Loehmann's. Len's dedication and tenacity helped fuel our recent growth and future expansion. His warmth and sense of humor will be missed by all who knew him. We 
 DUFFELL-John P. On January 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Dowling). Loving father of Eileen, Father John P., Carolanne, Richard, Stephen, Rita, Denise, Anne and Suzette. Also survived by sixteen grandchildren and his sister Rita Albert. Reposing Walter B. Cooke Funeral Home, 117 Wes
 FERRANTE di RUFFANO-Giovanni, age 68. Died on January 27 in Cazenovia, New York. He is survived by his stepchildren: Genevieve H. Swanson, Ward and Robert Hewins, all children of his beloved wife, Jane Gellert Hewins Ferrante di Ruffano, who predeceased him. Also survived by children of his
 FUNNELL-Anthony Lewis, 65, of Kent, CT on 28 January of cardiac arrest. Born in Stanford, CT., 31 October 1931 to Mary and Walter Lewis Funnell. Educated at South Kent School, Bowdoin and Columbia. Served as a Corporal in the US Army and worked for many years in the air travel industry in N
 HENRY-John Campbell. Passed away January 30, 1997. Survived by his wife Elizabeth. Brother of Louise Clark. Father of Margaret Smith and John C. Henry, Jr. Grandfather of Malcolm and Bradley Smith. A private service will be held for the family at Woodlawn Cemetery on Monday. In lieu of flow
 INNISS-Charles E. The Board of Trustees, the Central Administration, the College Presidents, the faculty, students and staff of The City University of New York deeply mourn the passing of Trustee Charles E. Inniss. Appointed to the Board by the Governor in 1992, he served with great distinc
 PESSAR-Theodore, M.D. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Theodore Pessar, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Mildred, and his children, Gregory, Marc and Dennis. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Barry Swi
 WORTZEL-Murray N. Passed away Jan. 30, 1997 after a heart attack. Cherished brother of Bertha Belmar and Esther Friedfeld. He was a professor of Library Science at Lehman College and founder of Leonard Eisner Memorial Foundation. He devoted his time and efforts to the Special Libraries Asso
 ROBBINS-Sim, 1918-2/1/82. ''And when he shall die, take him and cut him out in little stars, and he will make the face of Heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night.'' Your loving family: Rose, Dana, Karen and Steffie       
 Thomas M. Belk, the president of Belk Stores Services, a quietly run department store chain in Charlotte, N.C., died at Presbyterian Hospital there last Saturday. Mr. Belk, who was 71, suffered complications following gallbladder surgery, according to his secretary, Susan Blount. Mr
 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett, a family doctor who built a small San Francisco weekly tabloid into an influential newspaper chain and used his power as publisher to campaign for civil rights, died at his home in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Saturday. He was 82. The cause was Parkinson's disease
 Representative Frank Tejeda of Texas, a high school dropout who used the Marine Corps as a springboard out of the San Antonio slums and into an eventual seat in Congress, died on Thursday at the home of his former wife, Cecelia, in San Antonio. He was 51 and had represented the heavily Hisp
 Herb Caen, whose 60-year journalism career was devoted to doting on San Francisco and whose affections were more than amply requited by legions of ardent readers, died this morning at the California Pacific Medical Center here. Mr. Caen, who was 80, told readers in May that he had inoperabl
 John E. Tobin, a retired corporate lawyer and founding partner in the New York office of Dorsey & Whitney of Minneapolis, died on Jan. 19 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 73 and lived in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Tobin, a gra
 Joseph Jablow, professor emeritus of anthropology at Brooklyn College and chairman of the department from 1971 to his retirement in 1977, died on Jan. 20 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 82. He died after a long illness, his family said. Dr. Jablow, wh
 Michael Braun, one of the producers of the musical ''Titanic,'' scheduled to open at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater in April, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was heart failure, said his sister, Kathy Braun. Mr. Braun was born in New York City and gra
 Mikel Cardinal Koliqi of Albania, who spent decades in confinement during the rigidly Stalinist era of his homeland, died on Tuesday in Shkoder. He was 94. Cardinal Koliqi regained his freedom in 1986 after a total of 38 years in jails and labor camps. Pope John Paul II, who elevate
 ATKINS-Edwin F. (Ted), devoted husband of Elaine, loving father of Ned, Robert, Katherine and William and grandfather of nine, died January 31 at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL.       
 BARON-Benjamin Harry. Born February 16, 1909, (nee Baronofsky). Passed away on January 28, 1997. He resided in Brooklyn, NY most of his life, and West Palm Beach, Fla. He is survived by his beloved children, Ruth Herz and Carl Baron; grandchildren: Nicole, Justin and Julia; sister Mildred H
 BERNSTEIN-Frank. With deep sorrow the Board of Directors of River Point Towers mourns the passing of our devoted Secretary and fellow Director. His ability to offer practical solutions to complex problems in a most professional and good natured way will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympath
 BLOOM-Eli. Loving friend of Chan Jones. Adored father of Edward and Laura. Cherished grandfather of Molly and Max Bloom, and Miles Chandler. Dear brother of Jeanette Bronstein. He was a mentor to many and a friend to all. An icon in the automotive industry. Oh how we miss you, Dear Eli. Mem
 BRAUN-Michael D. May you never (p.p. 237, 453, 254) be at a great (p.p. 34, 26, 7, 166) loss for words (p.p. 228, 148, 450) Webster's English Edition. I am feeling the great loss of you. With love and gratitude. Julie Johnson BRAUN-Michael. ''Great Spirits encounter violent oppositi
 diPIPPO-Leonard, Jr. It is with deep sorrow that we note the passing of Leonard diPippo, Jr., Vice President of Real Estate for Loehmann's. Len's dedication and tenacity helped fuel our recent growth and future expansion. His warmth and sense of humor will be missed by all who knew him. We 
 DORFMAN-Jerome. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Jerome Dorfman, on January 29, 1997. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, 
 HASSAN-William C. of Moraga, CA on January 23, 1997. After retiring from the US Marine Corps. he was an executive of Bechtel Corporation in San Francisco. Beloved husband of Phyllis (nee Jenco). Devoted father of Patricia Newhart and Georgiana Andersen. Cherished grandfather of Lauren, Will
 HENRY-John Campbell. On January 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Whitmel Powers Henry. Survived also by a daughter, Margaret Smith, a son, John Campbell Henry, Jr., a stepson, Eric Knaus, two grandsons and a sister, Louise Henry Clark. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 
 INNISS-Charles E. The Board of Trustees and staff of the City University Construction Fund mourn the death of our beloved chairman, Charles E. Inniss. He was a man of great intelligence, compassion and dignity, whose visionary leadership guided the design and construction of several major e
 MARSHALL-John, age 79, on January 30, 1997, after several years battle with cancer. John was the great-great-grandson of the former Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, John Marshall. John is survived by his brother Walton of Silver Springs, MD, his nephews Walton and Bob, and niece Sal
 McIntyre-John F. Age 57, Vice President, Secretary, and General Counsel of Alcon Laboratories Inc., died Thursday, January 30, 1997, in Arlington, TX. John McIntyre was born September 8, 1939, in Detroit, MI. He graduated from Gilmore Academy and received his bachelor of arts degree from Da
 NEARY-Matthew. The entire John Jay Community mourns the death of our colleague, Professor of Law and Police Science and Criminal Justice Administration and former Dean of Administration. He will be remembered for his exemplary service to the NYPD and his dedication to the students of John J
 NOSHPITZ-Joseph D. The International Society for Adolescent Psychiatry mourns the loss of one of its officers and most eloquent spokesman, Joseph D. Noshpitz, MD. With his brilliance, wit and profound wisdom, Joe never failed to enrich the life of anyone he touched. On behalf of our Executi
 NOSHPITZ-Joseph D., M.D. On Tuesday, January 28, 1997. Dr. Joseph D. Noshpitz of Washington, D.C. Beloved husband of Charlotte Noshpitz. Devoted father of Claude Noshpitz. Loving brother of Ruth Kellman and Rose Bennett. Adoring grandfather of Jonathan Cummings. Services at the Danzansky-Go
 PERLMAN-Julian. The Directors of the Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Julian Perlman. A man of deep integrity, high intelligence, and generosity of spirit, he was dedicated to the culture of our time, the city of New York, and the futu
 WORTZEL-Murray N. Passed away Jan. 30, 1997 after a heart attack. Cherished brother of Bertha Belmar and Esther Friedfeld. He was a professor of Library Science at Lehman College and founder of Leonard Eisner Memorial Foundation. He devoted his time and efforts to the Special Libraries Asso
 Philip Chasin, a professional fund raiser for Jewish causes and Israel, died on Monday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. A 1931 graduate of City College, he began his career on the staff of the Business Men's Council of the Federation of 
 Dr. Ian A. H. Munro, a crusading editor of the British medical journal The Lancet for 12 years, died in a hospital in Kent, England, on Jan. 22. He was 73. The cause was complications of surgery, said David Sharp, deputy editor of The Lancet. Dr. Munro brought the passion of
 Dr. Lewis Henry Gann, a writer, an editor and an archivist steeped in the intersecting histories of Africa and Europe, died on Jan. 17 in his adopted hometown of Palo Alto, Calif. He was 72. He suffered a heart attack, according to a statement from the Hoover Institution in Stanford
 DOERFLER-William G. The Stephen Wise Free Synagogue and its Women's Organization record with profound sorrow the passing of a longtime benefactor and the cherished husband of many years to Annette (Toddy), who has served with great distinction as a Board member and Officer of the Women's Or
 EICHBERG-Joseph. Age 90, died in Atlanta, Feb. 1, 1997. He was President of the American Lecithin Company for over 60 years. Predeceased by wives Lucille Rosenfeld Eichberg and Florence May Eichberg, and daughter Susan Eichberg Whitfield. Survivors include son Joseph Eichberg, Jr., son-in-l
 FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Friends and Patrons of the Arts of the Vatican Museums record with deep regret the death of its founding member, the architect of its major successes in acquisition and conservation, and a dear personal friend. His work and generosity also led to the construction 
 INNISS-Charles E. The Board and staff of The South Forty Corporation mourn the passing of their longtime former Board member, Charles Inniss, who served the agency with dedication and deep personal interest in its mission of providing meaningful rehabilitation programs and job opportunities
 ISSMAN-Philip. On January 27, in Boca Raton, FL. Son of the late Anne and Irving Issman; beloved husband of Thelma; father of Matthew (Susan), Andrew (Sharon) and Claudia (David); grandfather; and brother of Helen Mintz, Ruth Fisherman and the late Jules. He will always be remembered.      
 KUSEL-Stanley P., 83, of Virginia Beach, VA, died February 1, 1996, in a local hospital. Mr. Kusel was a native of New York, NY. Survivors include his wife, Eleanor Kahn Kusel of Virginia Beach, a daughter, Barbara K. Fried of Virginia Beach, a son, Donald R. Kusel of Pleasantville, NY, and
 LANE-Herbert G. Loving husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Kenneth and Nancy, Donna and Simon Swaap. Cherished ''Poppy'' of Ryan and Allison. Dear brother of Robert, Arthur and Richard. And dear Mitzi. Service today February 3, 11:30 AM at Temple Israel of the City of New York, 112 East 7
 PERLMAN-Julian, on February 1, 1997. Loving father to Tom and the late Jane Elizabeth. Husband of the late Jane. Brother to Murray Perlman and Charlotte Walsh. Son-in-law of Anne Norris. Friend to Sylvia Wolf. A kind and devoted uncle. Services Tuesday 12 PM at Temple Israel of the City of 
 SERLIN-Nathan J., M.D. Died January 28, 1997 in Mt. Vernon, NY where he practiced internal medicine and hematology for 50 years. He is survived by his beloved wife Hilde, daughters Patricia Helsing and Nancy Pine, sonin-law Richard Pine, sister Ruth Towers and two adored grandsons. He will 
 TULCHINER-Semon. The Jewish Center of Jackson Heights mourns the pasing of our esteemed President, Semon Tulchiner. We offer our heartfelt sympathies to his family, wife Rita, their children Michael and Jill, and son-in-law Selwyn, grandchildren Scott, Anthony, Christina, David; and his mot
 Roger John Tayler, who helped advance modern understanding of stellar evolution and served for 18 years as secretary, treasurer and finally president of the Royal Astronomical Society in Britain, died on Jan. 23 in a London hospital. He was 67 and lived in Lewes, England. The cause 
 Sidney W. Dean Jr., a longtime trustee of the City Club of New York and a strong advocate of free speech who fought for years to make cable television a positive force for the city, died on Jan. 24 at his Greenwich Village apartment. He was 91 and died after suffering a stroke, his 
 Vladimir A. Yamnikov, manager of the Kristall distillery, one of the largest vodka makers in Russia, died in Moscow on Jan. 20. He was 56. As the distillery's longtime head, Mr. Yamnikov navigated the hulking red-brick factory and its work force through changes ranging from Mikhail 
 W. C. Patton, an Alabama civic leader who worked for voter registration among blacks well before it moved to the forefront of the civil rights movement, died on Jan. 16 at University of Alabama Hospital in Birmingham. He was 84. Mr. Patton, whose given name was William, was educated
 Lawrence A. Fleischman, chairman and chief executive officer of Kennedy Galleries in Manhattan, an authority on American art from the 18th through 20th centuries and a major collector of antiquities, died  on Friday at his home in London. He was 71 and also lived in Manhattan. The c
 Louis T. Merriam Jr., a civic leader in Connecticut who also served as chief executive of Revere Sugar, died in his home in Darien on Saturday at the age of 79. Mr. Merriam, known as Junie, died of bladder cancer, his wife, Marjorie, said. An accountant, Mr. Merriam worked in New Yo
 BERNSTEIN-Frank. The Board of Directors of Rivercross is deeply saddened by the passing of our General Manager and Corporate Secretary. He was an excellent Manager, but more importantly, Frank was a constant reassuring presence, a friend. He was head of our household, part of the fabric of 
 BILDNER-Benjamin. The Bildner Center for Western Hemisphere Studies at CUNY Graduate School, its Academic Council and staff mourn the loss of Benjamin Bildner. We are most grateful for his support and offer sincere condolences to his family.       
 BLOOM-Eli. The directors and members of the Greater New York Automobile Dealers Association mourn the loss of director and past-president Eli Bloom. We will all miss his companionship, as well as his leadership as chairman of the long range planning committee. Eli was an extraordinary and g
 CHASIN-Philip. The Board of Directors and the staff of the City College Fund record with deep regret the passing of Philip Chasin. A member of the Class of 1931, Mr. Chasin was an honorary member of The Board of Directors and one of the founders of the City College Fund. An authority in his
 CLAIRMONT-Maurice M. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University note with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed friend, Maurice Clairmont of Geneva, Switzerland, on January 17, 1997. He was a member of the AFTAU Founders Circle of Friends and the International Board of Governors of T
 DONATI-Judge Alfred, Jr. We are deeply saddened and mourn the loss of our dear friend and former colleague, Judge Alfred Donati, Jr. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Bonnie and members of his family The Robert M. Morgenthau Association       
 FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library mourn the loss of Lawrence Fleischman, devoted husband of Trustee Barbara Fleischman, and esteemed friend of the Library. His deep personal affection for and commitment to The New York Public Library and t
 GORDON-Stanley. Combining a huge heart, gentle irreverence and a gift for forming lasting relationships, he provided guidance, hope and opportunity to hundreds of students and colleagues. After a successful career in business he worked for the pure pleasure of helping students he treated as
 HELFFRICH-Stockton. A wise, principled man and concerned citizen. witty and warm, he will be sorely missed by his wife Maxie, children Richard H., Richard K., Jackie, Scott, John and grandchildren Glenn, Preston, Jeffrey and Jean. Memorial gathering Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 8
 INNISS-Charles E. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Catholic Interracial Council are deeply saddened by the death of Charles E. Inniss, our devoted and spirited leader for more than 15 years, serving both as President and a member of the Board. His sophisticated understanding, qui
 JOYNT-J. Howard III on Saturday, February 1, 1997 of Washington, DC. Beloved husband of Carol Ross Joynt, father of Spencer Ross Joynt, J. Howard Joynt, IV and Christopher Michael Joynt. Brother of Martha Joynt Kumar. Friends may call at Joseph Gawler's Sons, Inc, 5130 Wisconsin Avenue at H
 KAUFMAN-Louis H. On February 2, at the age of 84. A lifelong New York City resident. Graduate of New York University School of Law and founding partner of the legal firm of Schneider, Kaufman & Sherman, P.C. He is survived by his beloved companion Liselotte (Judy) Langholtz, daughter Jaymee
 LANE-Herbert. Our cherished uncle Herb-the kindest, most gentle and thoughtful man in the world. You were a special gift to all who knew you. We cannot believe that you are gone, but we will remember you and all our special times together forever. We love you now and always. Your nieces and
 LEVA-Marx, Sunday, February 2, 1997, of Bethesda, MD. Beloved husband of Shirley Pearlman Leva, M.D. Father of Lloyd Leva Plaine of Bethesda, MD and the late Leo Marx Leva, M.D. Brother of Isabelle Leva Sterne of Birmingham, AL. He is also survived by his nephew, Marx Sterne and his family 
 LEWIS-Cecil. Sagittarius risen, his quill at rest. Hail to thee, blithe spirit, you were the best. Eric Emory       
 McQUAID-James A. On February 2, 1997. Retired V.P. of U.S. Lines. Devoted husband of the late Margaret, beloved father of Peter and Maureen, dear brother of Ellen Cundari and Ann Capone. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Wednesday from 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Ma
 MILLER-Sylvia, 97, on February 2, 1997 at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale. Formerly a resident of Great Neck, beloved wife of the late Irving Miller, devoted mother of Jack and his wife Gladys, Alfred and his wife Joan, Arnold and his wife Linda, loving grandmother of David, Barba
 MORRIS-Gerry. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Gerry Morris on February 2, 1997. He was a dedicated contributor to the Friars Epistle. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Funeral services will be priva
 PERLMAN-Julian, on February 1, 1997. Loving father to Tom and the late Jane Elizabeth. Husband of the late Jane. Brother to Murray Perlman and Charlotte Walsh. Son-in-law of Anne Norris. Friend to Sylvia Wolf. A kind and devoted uncle. Services Tuesday 12 P.M., at Temple Israel of the City 
 SEXAUER-James Monroe, of West Palm Beach, Florida, died on Friday, January 24, 1997, at his home, following an extended illness. Mr. Sexauer had been a resident of the Palm Beach area since 1991, coming here from Harrison, NY. Born July 21, 1896 in Belvidere, IL, he was one of seven childre
 TEPPER-Rebecca B., 92, on February 2, 1997. Loving wife of the late Jacob. Beloved mother of Marvin and Elise, Donald and Elida, and Irwin and Joan. Cherished grandmother of Shelley and Steve, Edward and Beth, Jackie and David, Jan, Ellen and Rob, Michael, Jeffrey, Rosalie, and Matthew. Ado
 WACHTEL-Harry. With profound sorrow we mark the passing of a man whose life was dedicated to freedom, justice and civil rights for all and was filled with pleasures shared with family and friends. His warmth and caring will be deeply missed by his wife Lucy; children Alan, Susanna and Bill;
 ZELL-Herbert H., age 74, beloved husband of Carol, devoted father of Judy and Michael. Dear brother of Frances Horn and the late Edward Zell. He was a Vice President of design and merchandising for his own company, in addition to various other mens' sportswear companies. He retired December
 Sanford Meisner, one of the most influential American acting teachers of this century and for decades the director of the celebrated Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theater in Manhattan, died on Sunday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Meisner, an unassuming bu
 Theodoros Stamos, a precocious member of Abstract Expressionism's first generation and a prominent figure in a trial that rocked the art world in the 1970's, died on Sunday at the Hatsikosta Hospital in Yiannina, Greece, which he entered 12 days ago. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan and on 
 Chico Science, a songwriter and band leader who was widely hailed as the future of Brazilian music, died on Sunday after a car accident near the northeastern city of Recife, where he lived. He was 30. A local fire department spokesman said he died of injuries he received when his ca
 David Berger, the longtime host and producer of the WQXR-FM radio program ''Music From Germany,'' died on Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81. Mr. Berger's career in broadcasting began shortly after World War II when as a representative of the State Depa
 Ed Danowski, a football star at Fordham who went on to lead the Giants to two National Football League titles in the 1930's, died last Saturday in East Patchogue, L.I. He was 85. The cause of death was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his younger son, John. In th
 Harry H. Wachtel, a Manhattan corporate lawyer who for many years acted as a confidant and legal counsel to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died on Monday at his home in Roslyn Heights, L.I. He was 79. The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to a spokeswoman for Gold & Wachtel, the
 Morton Edell, an executive in the cosmetics and vitamin industries, died on Dec. 30 in Sarasota, Fla., at age 88. The cause of death was lung cancer, according to his son David. Born in New York, Mr. Edell worked as a clothing salesman and a stockbroker before founding Morton Edell 
 BILDNER-Benjamin. The Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York mourns the passing of Benjamin Bildner, father of Albert Bildner of the Graduate Center Foundation's Board of Trustees and longtime member of the Graduate Center's Board of Visitors. Benjamin Bild
 BOWDEN-Dr. Lemuel, 82, of Virginia Beach, died February 2, 1997 in his residence. Dr. Bowden was a native of Norfolk. He is survived by his wife, the former Charlotte Lewis Griswold of Louisville, KY by five of his six children: Howard G. Bowden of Houston, Tx; Margaret Bowden Nickodemus, M
 FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library mourn the loss of Lawrence Fleischman, devoted husband of Trustee Barbara Fleischman, and esteemed friend of the Library. His deep personal affection for and commitment to The New York Public Library and t
 FLEMER-Stevenson. 71, of Waitsfield, Vt. Died 2/2/97 at Naples, Fl after a brief illness. Born 1/8/26 in Princeton, N.J., son of the late William Flemer Jr. and the late Emma Wilkinson Flemer. Graduate of the Lawrenceville School, Dartmouth College and Harvard Graduate School of Design. Ser
 INNISS-Charles. He defined the spirit of Brooklyn. He was a great supporter and friend of BAM. We mourn his passing. Our condolences to his wife and family. Bruce Ratner Chairman, Board of Trustees Harvey Lichtenstein President Brooklyn Academy of Music       
 JONES-Michael V. The faculty, residents, and staff of the Residency Program in Social Medicine and the Department of Family Medicine of Montefiore Medical Center mourn the sudden and painful loss of our revered and esteemed colleague, Dr. Michael V. Jones, who brought wisdom, humor, and soc
 KAPLAN-Lester. On Feb. 4, 1997, of cancer. Cherished husband of Gladys Kaplan, beloved father of Jeffrey and Scott Kaplan, and daughter-in-law Debra Kaplan. Adored grandfather of Seth and Alexandra Kaplan, beloved brother and brother-in-law of Helen and Ben Lenetsky. In his 72nd year. The w
 KISTER-Sven J., M.D., of Palisades, NY, on February 3, 1997, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Christine; devoted father of Karin Kister Howard of East Providence, RI and Karl Sven Kister of NYC; grandfather of Katherine and Elizabeth Howard; and brother of Sigurd Kister of Columbia,
 KRINSKY-Milton, M.D. on Feb. 3, 1997. Beloved husband for over 62 years of Josephine (nee Bachrach), father of Robert, Edward and Dr. William, father-in-law of Carol, Roberta and Mary, grandfather of Alice, John, Rachel, Daniel, Ann, David and Ben Krinsky, grandfather-in-law of Scott Titus 
 MILLER-Sylvia, 97, on February 2, 1997 at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale. Formerly a resident of Great Neck, beloved wife of the late Irving Miller, devoted mother of Jack and his wife Gladys, Alfred and his wife Joan, Arnold and his wife Linda, loving grandmother of David, Barba
 PERLMAN-Julian. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of its good friend, Julian Perlman, a devoted friend of Jerusalem whose generous spirit will forever live on in the projects he helped to bring to life as the director of the Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation Inc. His friendship
 PFEIFLE-Louis A. The Board of Directors, Administration, and Medical and Dental Staff of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center expresses their profound sorrow on the death of Louis A. Pfeifle, former Chairman of the Board of Directors, and founding member of the Nassau Suffolk Hospita
 STILLMAN-Sheldon. Age 66. Passed away Saturday at Doctors' Hospital on Staten Island. He was a much loved and prominent businessman and a respected partner of DMAS Insurance Agency in Staten Island. He served in the Army during the Korean War as a Corporal, a Specialist in Transportation. H
 WACHTEL-Harry H. The partners, associates, counsel and employees of Rubin Baum Levin Constant & Friedman record with profound sorrow the passing of Harry H. Wachtel, a founder and former partner of our firm. His warmth, creativity and adherence to the highest standards of our profession and
 Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, a historian and longtime executive of the Smithsonian Institution who was an authority on North American Indians, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 72 and also had a home in Princess Anne, Md. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Ka
 Alan C. Nelson, who presided over sweeping changes in national immigration policy in the 1980's as Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, then helped write California's tough new immigration law, died on Jan. 29 at his home in Sacramento. He was 63. His family said the caus
 Bohumil Hrabal, who was widely regarded as the grand old man of Czech literature and whose novella ''Closely Watched Trains'' became an Oscar-winning film, died on Monday in a fall from a Prague hospital building. He was 82. A hospital spokesman said he was being treated for severe 
 C. Bowen Northrup, a former correspondent and editor for The Wall Street Journal, died Monday at his home in Stone Ridge, N.Y. He was 61. The cause was cancer, said Diane D. Cooper, his companion. Mr. Northrup, a 1956 graduate of Princeton University, served three years in t
 Dr. Henry H. Barschall, a nuclear physicist who carried out early experiments with neutrons, helped develop the atomic bomb in World War II and then saw his laboratory destroyed by a bomb in Vietnam War protests, died on Tuesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 81. The cause was 
 Mitchell Goodman, the impassioned author who organized an antidraft protest that led to the trial of the Boston Five in 1968 and helped galvanize opposition to the Vietnam War, died on Saturday at his home in Temple, Me. He was 73. His wife, Sandra Gregor, said the cause was pancrea
 FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library mourn the loss of Lawrence Fleischman, devoted husband of Trustee Barbara Fleischman, and esteemed friend of the Library. His deep personal affection for and commitment to The New York Public Library and t
 FLEMER-Stevenson, 71, of Waitsfield, VT. Died Feb. 2, 1997 at Naples, FL., after a brief illness. Born 1/8/26 in Princeton, N.J., son of the late William Flemer Jr. and the late Emma Wilkinson Flemer. Graduate of the Lawrenceville School, Dartmouth College and Harvard Graduate School of Des
 GUNTHER-Edwin, 70, February 4, 1997. He worked for Popsicle Idustries as Credit Manager for thirty-eight years. His greatest love for thirty years was local politics and community issues, serving as Democratic State Committee Member and a member of Community Board 7. He was reliable, sturdy
 HAAS-Milton J. Beloved husband of Ethel. Dearest father of Edward and Regina. Grandfather of Brian and Benjamin. He will be terribly missed by all. We love you.       
 HOBAN-Fairfield Wallace. Beloved father of Robin Hoban, Susan Hoban Pikal and Kerrin Hoban, suddenly of heart failure on February 2. He will be sorely missed by his family, the chess community and his many friends. Services are private, but a memorial service will be planned at a later date
 INNISS-Charles E. The Board and staff of Brookwood Child Care mourn the death of our longtime Board member and friend. His leadership and compassion were vital as Brookwood continued its mission to serve Brooklyn's most vulnerable children and families. His caring and devotion will be misse
 JAKUBIEL-Scott, age 35 of East Lyme, CT., and Manhattan, died Jan. 27, 1997 in Tampa, FL., at the H. Lee Moffit Cancer Center. He was a graduate of Pratt Institute & was a popular Manhattan party designer and florist. Mr. Jakubiel was preceded in death by his mother, Arline Wye, and sister,
 KASSEL-Alvin. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our longtime member, good friend and former Governor of the Board. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Doris and the family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club   
 KASSEL-Alvin L. Best friend and cherished husband of Doris. Most devoted, gentle and kind father to Bonnie, Kal and Kim. Died peacefully at his home on Feb. 5, 1997. The memory of your bright blue eyes, brilliant mind, quick wit and exceptional sensitivity will never be forgotten. How despe
 KISTER-Sven J., M.D., of Palisades, NY, on February 3, 1997, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Christine; devoted father of Karin Kister Howard of East Providence, RI and Karl Sven Kister of NYC; grandfather of Katherine and Elizabeth Howard; and brother of Sigurd Kister of Columbia,
 KRINSKY-Dr. Milton. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with sorrow the passing of Dr. Milton Krinsky, a distinguished long-time Emeritus physician in the Dept of Medicine. Our condolences to his wife Josephine and his bereaved family. Edwin L. Schulman, Chairman, B
 MARCH-Dr. Herman Louis, Dec. 4, 1910-Dec 24, 1996. Memorial Service Feb. 9, 2 P.M., Lewis House, Eckerd College, St. Petersburg, Florida. Survived by his daughter Kendall and his many students and patients. Res ipse loquitor. Teacher, Healer, Rebel.       
 MEISNER-Sanford, Sunday, Feb. 2, 1997 at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif., at the age of 91. The Board of Directors, the faculty, staff and students of the Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre, together with the faculty, graduates and former students of 62 years, join with his famil
 ORLANDO-Ignatius ''Nat'' or ''Iggy'' to his family and friends. Loving husband of Dorothy. Dear father of Jack, Denise, Robert and Tony. Loving grandfather of Sara, Cecelia, Nora, Chris, Alexander, Julia & Jack. Also survived by his loving brother Sal and sister Junie. Friends may call at T
 ORLECK-Joseph P. The family of Joseph Orleck mourns the passing of a unique and generous spirit. Semi-pro baseball and basketball player, an early force at Billboard Magazine, in 1940 he founded Cashbox, and built it into an internationally respected music magazine. Beloved uncle, grandpa, 
 PERLMAN-Julian S. All of us at New York City Opera express our sincere condolences to Mr. Perlman's family and colleagues at The Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation. His commitment to the cultural life of our city will serve as a lasting tribute.       
 PFEIFLE-Louis A., of Blue Point on Feb. 3, 1997. President of Rollie Inc. and active in community affairs. He was a former Brookhaven Town Councilman, former chairman of the Board of Directors of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center and a founding member of the NassauSuffolk Hospital
 PORETSKY-Milton. Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, NY, records with sorrow the death of its member and friend. May God comfort his wife Edith and family. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Arlene Kagan, President       
 ROBERTS-A. Sydney IV, of Palm Beach, Fl. and Westport, MA. died Feb. 3, 1997. He was 82 years old. Mr. Roberts graduated from St. Georges School and Yale University, Class of 1936. During W.W. II he served as Lt. Commander in the U.S.N.A. He was a member of the Everglades and Bath and Tenni
 SORRENTI-Davide (Argue), age 20, died from complications due to Thalasemia on February 4, 1997. He is survived by his mother Francesca, brother Mario, sister Vanina, step-father Steve, father Riccardo, grandmother Maria, and many loving friends and family. Davide was a creative and talented
 Julian S. Perlman, a New York lawyer and foundation executive who supported the performing arts in the city, died last Friday while visiting  the Catskill village of Phoenicia, N.Y. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He died of a heart attack, said G
 Milton Berger, a Coney Island press agent who trumpeted the delights of Brooklyn's legendary amusement district so long and with such flamboyant verve that he became a local landmark, died on Monday at his apartment on Ocean Parkway. He was 81 and died knowing that come summer, Coney Island
 BRESSLER-Isador, age 97, February 6. Survived by his wife Ethel, daughter Joan and Dr. Waldo Greenspan, brothers David and Ira, granddaughters Jane Sims and Nancy Greenspan, great grandchildren Zachary and Emma Sims. Services 1pm, today at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Rt. 4 East, Par
 CLAYBURGH-Albert H., died peacefully on February 6, 1997 at St. Luke's Hospital. He is survived by his lover, companion, wife Sandra Church, three children Corlies Clayburgh, Jill Rabe, and James Clayburgh, eight grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. A memorial gathering will be held
 FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Board of Directors of Thirteen/ WNET and Thirteen's president, William F. Baker, extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Lawrence A. Fleischman. We had the pleasure of knowing him through his wife, Mrs. Barbara Fleischman, who has long been part of the T
 FLEMER-Stevenson, 71, of Waitsfield, VT. Died Feb. 2, 1997 at Naples, FL., after a brief illness. Born 1/8/26 in Princeton, N.J., son of the late William Flemer Jr. and the late Emma Wilkinson Flemer. Graduate of the Lawrenceville School, Dartmouth College and Harvard Graduate School of Des
 FLUSS-Chaim Shlomo. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Hersch Fluss on the loss of his beloved brother, Chaim Shlomo Fluss. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 HO-Norman John. Died on Jan. 23, 1997. An International Civil Servant in The United Nations Secretariat, he is survived by his wife Betty Church Ho, daughter Ann Ho and granddaughter Cheryl Andrews. Memorial service will be at Noon, February 20, at U.N. Church Center.       
 INNISS-Charles E. The Board and staff of The New York City Police Foundation are saddened by the passing of former trustee, Charles Inniss. His profound commitment to community initiatives has improved the quality of life in Brooklyn, and will live on for future generations to enjoy. We ext
 KASSEL-Alvin L. Dearest Doris, Kim, Bonnie and Kal, our hearts are filled with sadness. We mourn deeply of the passing of our beloved dearest and devoted friend Alvin. His friendship with our family will be an everlasting source of strength and loving memory. We will miss him and love him a
 MEISNER - Sanford. Sandford Meisner was a longtime supporter and friend of The Working Theatre. We will miss him.       
 MURRAY-B. Wellington, age 55. Passed on Jan. 16, 1997. Musician who led the steel band, The Sound of Central Park, he was professionally known as Lord Wellington. Services held Jan. 25, 1997 in Miami, FL. Survived by a host of family and friends. Contributions may be made to Phoenix House. 
 PERLMAN-Julian. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Julian Perlman, a longtime member and enthusiastic supporter of the Museum. Together with his wife, the late Jane Perlman, and as President of The Norman and Rosita W
 WESTON-James. To Jeanne, Jennifer and Jamie. Thanks for sharing your dad with so many friends. We will miss him very much. WESTON-Jimmy. Beloved father of Jeanne, Jennifer and Jaime. Brother of Eugene and the late Warren and Mary. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison 
 WILCOX-Herbert B., Jr., M.D. February 5, 1997. Husband of Elizabeth, father of Herbert B. Wilcox, III, Gordon W. Wilcox, Thomas E. Wilcox. Born in 1908, Dr. Wilcox graduated from St. Paul's School, Concord, NH, Yale College and Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He serv
 Ross Lee Finney, a composer and teacher who was fascinated with the role of memory in both the composition and the understanding of music, died on Tuesday at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 90. Mr. Finney was a prolific composer whose style evolved considerably in a career lasting
 William E. Reid, a longtime textile executive and occasional adviser to the United States Government on international trade agreements, died on Jan. 29 at his home in Tubac, Ariz. He was 86. The cause was a combination of aphasia and Lou Gehrig's disease, his son-in-law, Rodman B. F
 Ernie Sabayrac, an entrepreneur who popularized the concept of selling golf shoes and apparel in pro shops and whose modest parking-lot display of products became a forerunner of the modern merchandising shows, died on Thursday in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 82. Mr. Sabayrac had
 Frederick J. Almgren Jr., a mathematics professor at Princeton University who studied the geometry of surfaces, died on Wednesday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 63 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was a complication from a bone marrow transplant for the marr
 Jimmy Weston, a glad-handing former athlete and one-time policeman who loved people, music and dancing so much that he opened a supper club that became Manhattan party central for more than two decades, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 74 and had operated Jimmy Weston's on E
 Marx Leva, a Washington lawyer who framed much of the legislation that unified the United States' armed services after World War II, died on Sunday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his family said. A top legal counsel in the Department of the Nav
 BERNSTEIN-William H., MD, 88, of Miami Beach, Fla. passed away Feb. 7, 1997. Husband of the late Freda (Fritzi). He is survived by children Janet (Stephen) Treadway, Susan Bernstein, and Bonnie (Peter) Dockter. Grandchildren: Charles Dockter, Sarah Dockter and Verne Thalheimer. A graduate o
 CLAYBURGH-Albert H. The officers and members of the Typophiles note with deep regret the death on February 6, 1997 of Albert H. Clayburgh, our longtime member and benefactor. His support of our organization and his many kindnesses will always be remembered. The Typophiles extend heartfelt c
 GRANT-David. On February 7, 1997. Dearly beloved husband of Pauline. Loving father of Stephen and Robert. Devoted to his daughters-in-law Ruth and Bridget and to his grandchildren: Joseph, Laura, Thomas, Anna, Neil and Jane. He adored his family and was loved and cherished by them for his g
 KOLB-Philip A., 61. Of Oceanside, L.I. Passed away peacefully at Calvary Hospital on February 7, 1997. He is survived by his devoted wife of 36 years, Barbara, loving daughter Jane Gamble and son-inlaw Edward, of Carol Stream, Ill., son Thomas of Manhattan and granddaughter, Breana. Phil wi
 PERLMAN-Julian. The Board and staff of The Public Theater/New York Shakespeare Festival are deeply saddened by the loss of Julian Perlman. As director of The Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation, Mr. Perlman has been a generous and loyal supporter for many years. We extend heartfelt condole
 RUHL-Arthur Paul. Son of Arthur Brown and Zinaida Ruhl. Died in New York City, January 13, 1997, at the age of 68. He was a resident of NYC most of his life.       
 VILLA-Jose Garcia, 88. Poet, Jose Garcia Villa, national artist for literature of the Philippines, born in Manila 1908, has resided in the Unite States since 1929. His first book of poems, ''Have Come, Am Here'' (1942) brought him immediate recognition, praised by Mark Van Doren, Dame Edith
 WALLINGFORD-Eldon R., Jr. 72, formerly of Bedford, NY, died of natural causes at his home in Somers. Born in Ashland, Kansas, Mr. Wallingford graduated from Dartmouth College, and served as an officer in the U.S. Marine Corps during World War II & the Korean War. He retired as a Vice Presid
 WESTON-James. To Jeanne, Jennifer and Jamie. Thanks for sharing your dad with so many friends. We will miss him very much.       
 WILCOX-Herbert B., Jr, MD. The Association of the Alumni of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia Univesity records with sadness the death of its dedicated alumnus and director emeritus on February 5, 1997. A graduate of the Class of 1934, Dr. Wilcox distinguished himself in hi
 WILCOX-Herbert B., Jr., M.D. February 5, 1997. Husband of Elizabeth, father of Herbert B. Wilcox, III, Gordon W. Wilcox, Thomas E. Wilcox. Born in 1908, Dr. Wilcox graduated from St. Paul's School, Concord, NH, Yale College and Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He serv
 Paul Singer, a psychiatrist who became a leading collector of Asian art, died on Jan. 19 at the Glenside Nursing Home in New Providence, N.J. He was 92. The art objects amassed by Dr. Singer were displayed in museums and galleries around the country. He was the curator of two shows 
 Vero C. Wynne-Edwards, a British ethologist and naturalist whose writings on group selection in evolution became the focus of an often-acrimonious debate among theorists in the 1960's and 70's, died on Jan. 5 in a nursing home in Banchory, Scotland. He was 90. Professor Wynne-Edward
 Dr. Ernest Stacey Griffith, a political scientist and former Federal official who wrote on the workings of government, died on Jan. 17 at the Parkview Nursing Home in Portland, Ore. He was 100. Dr. Griffith moved to Portland in 1990, after living in Washington for 55 years. 
 Gayle Kirkpatrick, a fashion designer known for his youthful, modern approach to American sportswear, died on Jan. 25 at his home in New York City. He was 62. The cause was AIDS, said Howard Lawrence, a friend and the executor of his estate. In his 30-year career on Seventh 
 Joseph D. Noshpitz, a child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who explored broad influences on behavior in his clinical work, teaching and writings, died on Jan. 28 at his home in Washington. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Claude. Whether examining self-d
 BROWN-Joe. Dearest Claudette, we mourn the passing of our beloved friend Joe. We will miss him always. Sharon and Harold Ross and Family       
 CLAYBURGH-Albert H., died peacefully on February 6, 1997 at St. Luke's Hospital. He is survived by his lover, companion, wife Sandra Church, three children Corlies Clayburgh, Jill Rabe, and James Clayburgh, eight grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. A memorial gathering will be held
 D'HONAU-Charles E., 69, died on February 5, 1997 at University of California San Francisco Medical Center, of complications from C.O.P.D. A graduate of The Pingry School and Princeton University, he was Asia Publisher of TIME Magazine, based in Tokyo before retirement. He is survived by his
 de LUCE-Hollinshead, 84, formerly of Oyster Bay Cove, New York, on Feb 2. He loved the sea and the vessels which plied it, blending a 35 year career as a naval architect and shipbuilding executive for Bethlehem Steel Corporation with a lifetime avocation as a small boat designer, builder, a
 FINNEY-Ross Lee. The American Society of Composers, Authors & Publishers records with sorrow the passing of our distinguished member, Ross Lee Finney in Carmel, California, on February 5, 1997. Our condolences to his family and to C.F. Peters Corp, the long time publisher of this distinguis
 FREY-Frank G., on February 6, 1997. Founder, chairman and CEO of The FMS Group. He is survived by his wife, Madeline Becker Frey, his daughters, Cleaves M. Frey and Sydney B. Frey, and sister, Elizabeth Frey Clark. Memorial service The Church of St. Martin in the Fields, 8000 St. Martin's L
 GRESOV-Boris V. On February 5, 1997. Beloved husband of Letitia. Father of Winston Graham and Christopher Leo. Grandfather of Frederick, Alexandra, and Ian Christopher. Brother of Helena de Haubensak. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Maryknoll Fathers, Ossining,
 HINES-William Walker, 76, on Feb. 1, at home in Kinston, NC. Mr. Hines attended The Woodberry Forest School in Orange, VA and The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill where he was a member of the society of Phi Beta Kappa. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II, and retained 
 KOLB-Philip A., 61. Of Oceanside, L.I. Passed away peacefully at Calvary Hospital on February 7, 1997. He is survived by his devoted wife of 36 years, Barbara, loving daughter Jane Gamble and son-inlaw Edward, of Carol Stream, Ill., son Thomas of Manhattan and granddaughter, Breana. Phil wi
 MJAANES-Otto. Melek's very much loved husband and Haakan's wonderful father died at home in NYC on February 5, 1997. We are suffering the loss of a very warm, extraordinary and compassionate human being, a prophetic visual poet, a very colorful, ferociously volcanic, brilliant artist. We lo
 RICH-Sidney. Though the flame has been extinguished, your warmth, kindness and love will always be inside of us. Devoted husband of Charlotte. Adored father of Mel and Ronnie, Judi and Andy Marcus. Loving Poppy of Hallie, Barrie, Stefani and Brian. Services Monday, February 10, 1997, at 10 
 SINKOFF-Alice. Beloved wife of Marvin. Loving mother of Martin, Richard, Nancy and James. Dear sister of Peter Bernholz and Ellen Harrison. Dear sister-in-law to Kit Bernholz and Richard Harrison, and devoted aunt to Martha, Lucy, Jane, Dennis, Liz and Emily. Services to be held at Sunset C
 SZABO-Szilard, born on February 5, 1918 in Budapest Hungary. A man of warmth, love, humor, and many talents, he died Feb. 6, 1997 with his loved ones by his side. He will be greatly missed by his wife Maria, sons Szilard, Gyorgy, and Andrew, daughter Judith Kemp, son-in-law Richard, daughte
 WESTON-Jimmy. Beloved father of Jeanne, Jennifer and Jaime. Brother of Eugene and the late Warren and Mary. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, 7-9 PM, Saturday and Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Funeral mass St. John the Evangelist R.C. Church, 1st Ave at 55th
 WILCOX-Herbert B., Jr., M.D. February 5, 1997. Husband of Elizabeth, father of Herbert B. Wilcox, III, Gordon W. Wilcox, Thomas E. Wilcox. Born in 1908, Dr. Wilcox graduated from St. Paul's School, Concord, NH, Yale College and Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He serv
 CHOROROF-Laurence. 2/9/56-3/14/94. To have known him, to have had him, for even so short a time is our blessing.       
 Thomas Daniel Young, a professor of English at Vanderbilt University and a leading authority on literature of the American South, died on Jan. 29 at the Bay Springs General Nursing Home in Bay Springs, Miss. He was 77 and lived in Rose Hill, Miss. The cause was complications after a
 William Roscoe Kintner, a writer  on world affairs and professor emeritus of political science at the University of Pennsylvania, died on Feb. 1 in his home in Bryn Athyn, Pa. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his family said. A 1940 graduate of West Point, he served as an in
 Rear Adm. Donald John MacDonald, who commanded a destroyer in some of the heaviest sea battles of World War II, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Washington. He was 88. Admiral MacDonald retired in 1959 as a rear admiral in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. In his last assig
 George W. DeFranceaux 2d, a retired mortgage banker and developer who helped establish a corporation that encouraged private investment in housing for people with low and moderate incomes, died on Jan. 27 at the Lafayette General Medical Center in Lafayette, La. He was 83 and had li
 Dr. John Perry Miller, an economics professor for more than 40 years at Yale University who was the dean of the university's graduate school in the 1960's, died yesterday morning at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 85. He joined the economics department at Yale in 1939 after teachin
 Joseph Kastner, a nature writer who was nominated for a National Book Award for his 1977 book, ''A Species of Eternity,'' a study of early American naturalists, died on Thursday at his home in Grandview-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Kastner was also a writer and editor at Life maga
 BURKE-John R., 87, of Bronxville, NY, formerly of East Syracuse, died Saturday in St. Joseph's Hospital after a long illness. He graduated from Christian Brothers Academy. He lived in Bronxville, NY, for the past 50 years. He retired from Saks Fifth Avenue and Bonwit Teller. He was an Army 
 CAREY-Joseph I. Of Sleightsburg, NY. A retired civil engineer for the NYC Water System at Ashokan Reservoir. Died Thursday, February 6, at Kingston, NY. Born in Brooklyn, February 1, 1920. Son of the late Joseph and Kathleen Tully Carey. He was a WW II Marine Corps veteran having served as 
 LEVINE-Irving R., age 73, on February 9, 1997. Mr. Levine was an advertising and production director for Revlon and Torlow advertising agency for the past 25 years. He was a member of the Dellwood Country Club, New City, NY for over 40 years. He is survived by two brothers, Murray and Saul,
 METZ-Rene. Died February 8, 1997, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Alice and father of Claudia. Services were held February 9. METZ-Rene. The Board of Directors, Officers and staff of J. Gerber & Co., Inc. mourn the passing of our longtime colleague and benefactor. We extend
 MORRIS-Dr. Joel. We mourn the loss of our member and send heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Evelyn Maltman, President       
 SCHLESINGER-Alexander. Esteemed President of Crown Heights Yeshivah in Mill Basin for over two decades. Holocaust survivor with indefatigable concern for Jewish education, Israel and Russian Jewry. Deep sympathy to his children Glenn, Gary and Laurie, and the entire family. Crown Heights Ye
 SINKOFF-Alice. The administration and medical staff of Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledges with sadness the passing of Alice Sinkoff, beloved wife of our friend and colleague, Marvin Sinkoff, an attending physician at Beth Israel. To Dr. Sinkoff and the entire Sinkoff family, we offer o
 G. Stockton Strawbridge, who helped transform Strawbridge & Clothier from a small family dry goods store into a department store empire that girdled the Philadelphia area, died at his home in Newtown Square, Pa. on Saturday. He was 83. In a career that spanned more than half a centu
 BELL-Sidney, Feb. 8, 1997. Retired dentist and owner of Sidney Bell Fine Arts and Antiques. Survived by his wife Gloria, his son Dr. Stuart Bell and daughter-in-law Corinne of Baltimore, daughter Leslie, sister Rose Burger, grandchildren Douglas, Alexis and David, his niece Jane and nephew 
 CUMMINGS-Paul. 64. On February 7, of complications following a stroke. Former curator of Drawings at the Whitney Museum of American Art; past president of the Drawing Society. Beloved brother of Rita L. Yankasammy; brother-in-law of Sam; uncle of Devicka and Krishna of Garden Grove, CA. Don
 EVANS-Emanuel J. The Covenant Foundation mourns the passing of Emanuel Evans, beloved father of our esteemed Board Chairman, Eli N. Evans. Emanuel Evans served as Mayor of Durham, NC from 1951-63. A near lengendary figure, he was known throughout the South for his success in bringing desegr
 JASPER-Leon. With deep sorrow and regret, Temple Zion mourns the passing of our President Emeritus, Leon Jasper. We will miss his wisdom, knowledge and guidance. His total devotion to our synagogue was unmatched. We send our condolences to his wife Florence. Irving Dropkin, Rabbi David Koeg
 KENT - Arthur. Our Council mourns the passing on February 9 of longtime former president of Local 11 of the National Assoc. of Broadcast Technicians and member of our executive board for many years. His involvement with the trade union movement and the broadcasting industry began with the V
 MARX-Elaine H. (nee Silverman). Devoted mother of Barry and his wife Allyn, Philip and his wife Sheryl, David and his wife Robin. Adoring grandmother of Mellisa, Deborah and Danny. Loving sister of Harriet and Edna. Services today 1 PM, ''Gutterman's Funeral Home'', (Parkside Building), 257
 METZ-Rene. The Officers and Directors of the Leo Baeck Institute send heartfelt condolences to Alice and Claudia, beloved wife and daughter of our dear friend and benefactor, Rene Metz. We shall always be grateful for his support of our work and our mission. Carol Kahn Strauss Ismar Schorsc
 PAYNE-Norman. The Officers and Staff of Dazian Fabrics note with sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague, Norman Payne. During his 44 year tenure at Dazian, Mr. Payne conducted his sales functions with highest integrity and diligence. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Sarah, a
 VanderKloot-Nicholas J., 89 years old, of Palm Beach, FL, died at his home on February 9, 1997, after a three month battle with cancer. Born in Chicago, IL, on April 25, 1907, Nick joined R.R. Donnelley & Sons, the world's largest commercial printer, as a pre-apprentice, in 1924 at the age 
 WARRICK-Alexander B., 76, died February 9 in Vero Beach, FL. He is survived by a wife, the former Frances Stone, a son, Alexander Jr., a daughter-in-law, and 3 grand children. He was a member of the Yale class of 1942 and retired from the Chemical Bank in 1972 to build the Stage Neck Inn of
 Paul Cummings, a curator, publisher and authority on American drawings and prints, died on Friday at Beth Israel North Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of a stroke that he suffered on Jan. 24, said Judith Goldman, a friend.     
 Benjamin Gebiner, who devoted a multifaceted career to Jewish communal life and the labor movement, died on Friday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 98 and had been general secretary of the Workmen's Circle. His daughter Laura Landis said that her father, a longtime 
 Dr. George Brampton Koelle, a pharmacological sleuth who spent more than 50 years unraveling secrets of the synapses, died on Feb. 1  at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center in Philadelphia. He was 78 and lived in Swarthmore, Pa. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, family m
 Jerome Namias, an influential meteorological researcher who pioneered extended weather forecasts in the United States, died on Monday at the Scripps Torrey Pines Convalescent Hospital in San Diego. He was 86. The cause was pneumonia, said the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at t
 FRIEDMAN-Ruth. Friends of Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends sincerest expressions of sympathy and condolences to our devoted Vice President of our Board of Governors, Dr. Ira Friedman and Erika upon the loss of his dear mother, Ruth. Also to the grandchildren, our alumnus, Dr. Richard and Joann. M
 JOYCE-Reverend James E. CSP. Age 90, on February 11, 1997 in Vero Beach, FL. A native of Portland, ME, Fr Joyce was ordained a Paulist priest on 2/24/38 at St. Paul the Apostle Church in New York City. Through the years he ministered in Paulist parishes in Toronto, Canada; Chicago, Boston, 
 McCARTHY-Rev. John Joseph, S.J. Dear brother of Dr. Patrick J. McCarthy and Mrs. James Durkin. Reposing at the Loyola Hall Chapel, Fordham University, on Wednesday, 3-5 P.M. and 7-9 P.M. and Thursday 3-5 P.M. Mass of Christian Burial Thursday, 8 P.M., at Fordham University Church. For infor
 Simone Rizzo DeCalvacante, who the authorities say was the former head of a New Jersey Mafia family and whose underworld forte was devising rackets to milk union funds and extort money from legitimate companies, died on Friday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 84 and had lived in retirement f
 Mario Henrique Simonsen, an economist who served as Brazil's Finance Minister in the tumultuous 1970's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Rio de Janeiro. He was 61. Mr. Simonsen, who also served on the boards of several major corporations, was appointed by President Ernesto Geisel in 
 ABDOO-Frederick F., 78, February 9, 1997. Beloved by his family, he is survived by his wife, Helen; three children, Lynda, Jayma, and Brian; daughter-in-law, Geri; and two grandchildren, Keegan and Cora; as well as by four sisters, Mary, Gemile, Freda, and Hannah; and a brother, John. An Ai
 CASTELLANOS-Donald F., on Monday, February 10, 1997 of the Chelsea section of NYC. Devoted brother of Mary Comba, Francis W. and James J. Castellanos; Daniel L. Wollenziehn. Mr. Castellanos was appointed to the New York State Banking Department by then Governor Mario Cuomo. He served the ba
 COVICI-Pascal, Jr. Of Dallas, TX, formerly of New York, died Feb. 9, survived by wife of forty-five years Joan Fortescue Covici; daughter Anna Covici Propp; son John and two grandsons. Born Sept. 2, 1930, son of late Pascal and Dorothy Soll Covici. Graduate of Harvard University, author of 
 GEBINER-Benjamin. We mourn the loss of a learned and compassionate friend whose sense of social justice extended to people everywhere. He championed worker's rights, and, as a believer in Isrel, he supported labor Israel's message. He demonstrated a strong love for his family, to whom we ex
 GONZALEZ-Charles A., age 62, on February 11, 1997. Survived by his wife, Phyllis; daughter, Maggie Gile; son and daughter-in-law, Jeffrey and Toni Gile, two granddaughters, Megan and Jordan; three sisters, Mary Savarese, Sylvia Stano, and Helen Gauci; and several nieces and nephews. Visitat
 HARTENBAUM-Michael, age 14. Beloved son of Ron and Laura; beloved brother of Steven and Jonathan; beloved grandson of Sylvia and the late Walter Schwartz and Gloria and Bela Hartenbaum. He will be greatly missed by his family and friends. Donations to CACLD (Connecticut Association of Child
 KISTER-Dr. Sven J. The members of the Department of Surgery of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University and the Surgical Service of the Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of our long term esteemed colleague and friend. He spent all his professional life at our inst
 KLEINFELD - Morris, passed away February 12, 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife, Miriam; loving children, Gayle (Dr. Mark) Heifferman, Dr. Jay (Dr. Evangeline) Kleinfeld, Shelley (Dr. Matthew) Schwartz, and Karen (Dr. David) Lassing, and eight grandchildren. Services 1:00 o'clock toda
 LUERY-Robert Leslie, 79, of Laguna Beach, CA., on February 10, 1997 at South Beach Hospital. Father of Andrea Fenton, Michael and Russell Luery. Former husband of Anita Meyers Luery. Predeceased by his daughter Roberta Jeanne Luery. Retired Property Manager of W.M. Capital Management whose 
 PILO-Marius. Age 91. On February 11, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Esther Pilo (nee Amir). Devoted father and father-in-law of Marvin and Jackie Pilo, of West Hartford, CT.; loving grandfather of their children, Elissa and Michael Pilo. Born in Salonika, Greece in 1905, he came to New Y
 SCHNEIDER-Irving. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Alan and Angel Schneider and Pam Fryer. Adoring grandfather of Nasha, Chandra, Roxanne, Evan and Cheyenne. Graveside services 10AM Friday, Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, N.Y. SCHNEIDER-Irving. The Board of Governors and Me
 SQUIRE-Judge Sidney. On Feb. 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Helen; devoted father of Walter and Jason; cherished father-in-law of Sara Abramson, M.D.; loving grandfather of Harrison, Russell, Zachary and Andrew. Funeral service 12 noon, Thurs, Feb 13, 1997 Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam
 Thomas B. Stoddard, a lawyer whose persuasiveness and erudition advanced the cause of equal rights for gay men, lesbians and people with AIDS, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Walter Rieman. Mr. Stoddard was executiv
 William P. Homans Jr., a Boston civil rights lawyer who championed the downtrodden, the oppressed and the out-and-out villainous with such verve that he became a legend in Massachusetts legal circles, died on Feb. 7 at a nursing home in Phoenix. He was 75 and had lived in Cambridge, Mass.  
 Henry Margenau, a professor emeritus of physics and natural history at Yale University and an expert in spectroscopy, microwave theory, nuclear energy and the philosophy of science, died on Saturday in Hamden, Conn. He was 96 and lived in Hamden. During the 1950's, Dr. Margenau's th
 BLAGDEN-Crawford, on February 10, 1997 age 84. A decorated Veteran of WWII. He was awarded the Silver Star, the Bronze Star and a Purple Heart. Husband of the late Mary K. Blagden. Father of Crawford Blagden, Jr, Elizabeth B. Strawbridge, Frederic K. Blagden, Samuel P. Blagden, nine grandch
 CARLON-Angelo Antenore. On February 12, 1997. The family of Antenore mourn his passing with deep sorrow. Viewing at Campbell's Funeral Home, Madison Ave at 81st, February 19, 1997, 5-8PM.       
 CASTELLANOS-Donald F. All of us at Congregation B'Nai Olam mourn the loss of our good friend and long time supporter. His devotion to community improvement and social awareness was admirable. Our condolences to Daniel, his long time companion, and to the extensive family.       
 CUMMINGS-Paul. Paul Cummings' Connoisseurship and diligent efforts, together with the guidance and support of the Drawing Committee of the Whitney Museum of American Art, built the Museum's modest group of 20th century American drawings into one of the preeminent collections. I was privileg
 FOLEY-Archibald Richard, M.D. On February 12, 1997. Survived by his sister, Edna Foley Gannon, and many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews. Visitation at the Abbey (Campbell Bldg) 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Friday 5-7PM. Mass of Resurrection at the Church of Our Savio
 HESSEL-Alexander. The Board of Trustees, President David Chang, Chancellor George Bugliarello, the faculty, alumni, staff and students of Polytechnic University note with profound sorrow the passing of Alexander Hessel, retired professor of the Electrical Engineering Department. After recei
 KORN-Irving, of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY. On Feb. 13, 1997. Survived by his loving wife, Lee Korn, beloved sons Sheldon and Robert Korn. Five grandchildren: Ilene, Stacie, Melanie, Gary, and Wendy. Nine great grandchildren: Danny, Mathew, Jordan, Jamie, Emily, Ross, Lucas,
 KRAUS-George E., 88, of Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of New York, died February 13. Beloved husband of Bobbi, cherished father and father-in-law to Marlene and Steve Morris of New York and Leslie Kraus and Susan Rosenthal Kraus of Minnesota. Loving grandfather of David and Gary Morris and Erica
 PILO-Marius, Esq. On February 11, 1997. The Sephardic Jewish Brotherhood of America notes with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed founding member & past President, Marius Pilo. His many years of loyal and devoted service added immeasurably to the progress of our organization. We ex
 ROCHE-Thomas Kirby, of Muttontown, NY, on February 12, 1997, at the age of 79. Survived by his wife Beverly, as well as by Gary Knapp, son John, daughters Caroline dela Bretesche, Claire Ferreyrulles & Barbara Makowski. Sisters Mrs. Earl Smith and Mrs. Billy Bryant, and 10 grandchildren. Co
 SCHNEIDER-Irving. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Alan and Angel Schneider and Pam Fryer. Adoring grandfather of Nasha, Chandra, Roxanne, Evan and Cheyenne. Graveside services 10AM Friday, Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, New York. SCHNEIDER-Irving. Our heartfelt sympathies
 STODDARD-Thomas B. The board and staff of Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund mourn the death of Thomas B. Stoddard, civil rights champion and Lambda's former executive director. To lesbians, gay men, people with HIV and AIDS, and Lambda in particular, Tom was not just a part of our civ
 Robert D. Currie, the production manager for City Center, died on Wednesday at Tisch Hospital, New York University Medical Center, in Manhattan. He was 62 and had homes in Manhattan and North Bushkill, Pa. The cause was a viral infection, said his companion, Susan Bell. Mr. 
 Thomas B. Stoddard, a lawyer whose persuasiveness and erudition advanced the cause of equal rights for gay men, lesbians and people with AIDS, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Walter Rieman. Mr. Stoddard was executiv
 William McKinley Klein Jr., a botanist who revitalized the study of plants and botanical gardens in Florida, Hawaii and Pennsylvania, died of heart failure on Wednesday at Coral Gables Hospital in Florida. He was 63 and lived in Hawaii. Dr. Klein was in Florida to attend meetings an
 Amrom H. Katz, whose studies prepared the way for space reconnaissance -- the use of space satellites to collect intelligence by photography and other means -- died on Monday in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complicatio
 John R. Bartels, for 38 years a Federal judge of the Eastern District of New York, died on Thursday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in Brooklyn. Judge Bartels, who lived in Brooklyn Heights, was 99 and the oldest sitting Federal judge. He would have observed his 100th birthday on Nov
 Nathan Lerner, a photographer, designer and teacher, died on Feb. 8 at Northwestern Hospital in Chicago. He was 83, and lived in Chicago. Mr. Lerner's long career was inextricably bound up in the history of visual culture in Chicago. Born in 1913 to immigrants from Ukraine, he began
 ABDOO-Frederick The members of the Columbia College Alumni Association mourn the passing of its loyal alumnus, Frederick Abdoo, an active and generous supporter of the college and a devoted member of the class of 1941. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Helen, his children and fami
 ARENSBERG-Conrad M. The members of the Department of Anthropology at Columbia University, together with their colleagues at Barnard College and Teachers College mourn the death of their teacher, colleague, and friend of many years, on February 10. His warmth of heart, world-encompassing sch
 CASHIN-Richard Marshall, 72, international aid official, resident of New York City and Cotuit, MA, died peacefully on February 13 of complications from pulmonary fibrosis. He is survived by his wife of 46 years, Mary Walsh Cashin, four children, Anne Goldenheim of Wilton, CT, Richard M. Cas
 CURRIE-Robert. The staff of Alan Wasser Assocs. mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Robert Currie. We express our profound sympathies to his family and to his companion, Susan Bell.       
 FOLEY-Archibald Richard, M.D. On February 12, 1997. Survived by his sister, Edna Foley Gannon, and many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews. Visitation at the Abbey (Campbell Bldg) 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Friday 5-7PM. Mass of Resurrection at the Church of Our Savio
 KENT-Joseph Solomon ''Sol'', on Monday, February 10, of Waltham, formerly of Lexington, MA. For 47 years the beloved husband of Selma. Devoted and loving father of Aileen and Scott Yates of Waltham, MA, David and Claire Kent of Dunstable, MA and Stacey and Elliott Berger of Sandown, NH. Che
 KORN-Irving. Deeply saddened by the death of this caring man devoted to family, friends and charitable causes, I cherish the decades of professional challenge and experiences we shared. Sylvia joins in heartfelt condolences to his family. Bernard Rackear KORN-Irving. Died on Wednesd
 LIPKOFF-Clarence Joseph (Larry) M.D. Age 85 of Point Lookout, Milford, CT., died Tuesday in Milford Hospital. He was the husband of the late Helen Murray Lipkoff. Dr. Lipkoff, son of the late John A. and Dorothy Sarason Lipkoff, was born in New York City, Dec. 31, 1911. He was a U.S. Army v
 SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Ralph. Friends and family announce with great sorrow the passing of this distinguished clergyman and community leader on February 11 at the age of 86. Ordained in 1940, he served as Rabbi at The Ninth Street Temple, The Madison Jewish Center and Temple Sinai, all in Brookl
 STODDARD-Tom. We, the Board of Directors and Staff of The American Foundation for AIDS Research, mourn the loss of our most valued colleague, treasured friend, and Co-Chairman of our Board. We have come to rely daily on his judicious counsel and penetrating insight, while admiring his deep 
 STRAHL-Merton P., M.D. USN Retired. Age 92. In Altamonte Springs, Florida. Formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y. Survived by his beloved wife Sally and many loving nieces and nephews. Services on Sunday, February 16, 1997 at 1:30 P.M., at Boulevard-Riverside, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, New York.       
 WALLEY-Miron M. Age 88, an attorney. Died of congested heart failure on February 12, 1997 in Philadelphia, PA. Formerly of Plainfield, NJ and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of the late Silvia S. Walley and devoted father of William A. Walley, Barbara W. Schaff, and David G. Walley. Loving 
 Robert Mallary, a junk artist who contributed to the blossoming of American sculpture in the late 1950's and early 60's, and was also a pioneer in the use of plastics and computers in art, died on Monday at Cooley-Dickinson Hospital in Northampton, Mass. He was 69 and lived in Conway, Mass.
 Dr. Arnost Kleinzeller, an emeritus professor of physiology at the University of Pennsylvania who studied the way cells regulate their fluids, died on Feb. 1 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 82. The cause was lung cancer, the university said. Dr. Kleinzeller studied how c
 Conrad M. Arensberg, a pioneering scholar who helped shift the focus of anthropology from the study of exotic primitive peoples to the examination of complex modern societies, died on Monday at a nursing home in Hazlet, N.J. He was 86 and had been professor of anthropology at Columbia Unive
 Dr. Justus J. Schifferes, an editor and writer on health and science, died on Jan. 25 at the Inglemoor Nursing Home in Livingston, N.J. He was 82. The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Cecile, said. He was an editor, with Dr. Forest Ray Moulton, of an anthology of discoveries, 
 BARTELS-John R. Sr. Federal Judge Eastern District of New York. Husband of the late Anne. Father of John and William. Grandfather of Gilpin, Kristin, Anne, Elizabeth and Jackson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. Tues Feb 18, 5-8 p.m. Service Wed. Feb 19, 1
 CARLON-Angelo Antenore. On February 12, 1997. The family of Antenore mourn his passing with deep sorrow. Viewing at Campbell's Funeral Home, Madison Ave at 81st, February 19, 1997, 5-8PM.       
 CHEN-Lin. On February 14, 1997. Beloved husband of Susie Chen. President of Summit Import Corporation and Kam Man Food Corporation. He will be deeply missed by his loving family and friends. Funeral information, please call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., at 212-288-3500.   
 CURRIE-Robert D. The entire City Center family is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our extraordinary production manager, Bob Currie. Bob's commitment, professionalism, and expertise, as well as his renowned sense of humor, will be greatly missed. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to B
 DENNIS-Joseph A. (10/1/39-2/7/ 97). A free spirit who brought joy to all. A gala celebration honoring his life will be held at the Alvin Ailey Center, 211 W. 61 Street, NYC, Sun. 2/23/97 at 5PM. Festive dress.       
 EPLEY-Marion J., Jr. retired Chairman of Texaco, Inc., died on February 15, 1997, at Harbour's Edge in Delray Beach, Florida. He was 89 years old and previously lived in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Epley practiced law in New Orleans, LA, from 1930 to 1947 when he joined Texaco there. In 1952 he mov
 GENTRY-James Baxter (''Baxter''). Born on September 9, 1906, in Lumber City, Georgia, the first child of Oscar Alachua Gentry and Mary Bird Baxter Gentry, died in Houston, Texas, on Friday, February 14, 1997. Mr. Gentry was predeceased by his wife of 69 years, Dora Ferrell Gentry on May 5, 
 GUTHRIE-Henry B., a prominent lawyer in NYC for many years, died Wednesday, February 12, at his home in Bedford, NY, at the age of 94. He was predeceased just one month ago by his devoted wife of 64 years, Elizabeth Archer Guthrie. A native New Yorker, Mr. Guthrie graduated from Hill School
 KLEINFELD - Morris, M.D., passed away February 12, 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife, Miriam; loving children, Gail (Dr. Mark) Heifferman, Dr. Jay (Dr. Evangeline) Kleinfeld, Shelley (Dr. Matthew) Schwartz, and Karen (Dr. David) Lessing, and eight grandchildren. Services were held.  
 KORN-Irving. We are profoundly saddened at the passing of our dear and loyal friend Irving Korn. He expressed his compassion for children by generously embracing our cause. Our deepest sympathy both to his loving wife Lee and to his family. Mary G. Weiss, Founding Pres. Palm Beach Branch of
 LEVY-Benjamin E. Officers and members of the Board of Directors of Medical Development for Israel, Inc. (MDI) and the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel are saddened by the passing of Benjamin E. Levy, brother of the Chairman of the Board of MDI, H. Irwin Levy. We extend our hear
 O'BISO-Gustave L. On February 12, 1997, of Lincoln Park, NJ. Formerly of Forest Hills, NY. A former independent jewelry designer and manufacturer in the NYC area, retired in 1986. Survived by his wife Ilda (Ripandelli); two daughters, Christine (George) Nadzam and Carol (Karel) Peters. Frie
 OLSON-Eric E. Passed away on February 14, 1997, after a valiant battle against AIDS. His sense of humor, his beautiful smile and his sense of freedom will always live inside of us. He leaves behind a large family in Nebraska and many friends all over the world. We love you Eric. Rest in pea
 PRESSMAN-Jack. The Warsaw Ghetto Resistance Organization mourn the loss of its Secretary, Jack Pressman. A survivor of the Warsaw Ghetto, as well as the Oberlanzdorf and Gross Rosen concentration camps, Mr. Pressman devoted his life after the war to remembrance of the Holocaust. Born in War
 SHAPERO-Edward, M.D. The Board of Trustees and the members of the Medical Staff of the New York Downtown Hospital extend their deepest sympathies to the family of the late Edward Shapero, MD. A member of the New York Infirmary Staff from 1955 to 1994, a former Chief of Strang Clinic and val
 SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Ralph. Friends and family announce with great sorrow the passing of this distinguished clergyman and community leader on February 11 at the age of 86. Ordained in 1940, he served as Rabbi at The Ninth Street Temple, The Madison Jewish Center and Temple Sinai, all in Brookl
 STODDARD-Thomas B. The Board and the staff of the Human Rights Campaign mourn the loss of Thomas B. Stoddard. Tom's intelligence, leadership, eloquent passion and keen sense of humor guided our struggle through some of our most difficult times. Our sympathies to Tom's companion, Walter Riem
 STRAHL-Merton P., M.D. USN Retired. Age 92. In Altamonte Springs, Florida. Formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y. Survived by his beloved wife Sally and many loving nieces and nephews. Services on Sunday, February 16, 1997 at 1:30 P.M., at Boulevard-Riverside, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, New York. 
 WASSERMAN-Milton. 71, after a courageous fight against cancer. Founder and President of MERJ Insurance Brokerage. Adored husband and life partner of Rhoda (Rosner) for forty-eight years. Loving father of Susan (Sanders), Jeffrey (Wasserman) and Debi (Snyder). Cherished grandfather of Adam, 
 ZWEIG-Robert M. of Boca Raton, FL, age 76, died February 12, 1997 at 11:40 PM. Born Brooklyn, September 16, 1920, to Pinkus and Rebecca, he graduated from Queens College and West Virginia University. Veteran WW II. President John Chatillon and National Scale Manufacturer's Association. Past
 DAGRON-Rene. Remembering the gentle giant, with his green thumb, his heart of gold and his 33 years of laughter. Sidney Morris       
 Robert Ridgely, a film and television actor, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 65. The cause was cancer, his wife, Patricia, said. Mr. Ridgely was a familiar face in Jonathan Demme and Mel Brooks films. He was a game show host in Mr. Demme's ''Melvin a
 BURROWS-Selig. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Selig Burrows, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. A. Ephraim Diamond, Pres. Robert S. Puder, Secy.       
 DULCHIN-Eli. On February 10. Survived by wife of 58 years, Gertrude, daughters, Marilyn, Elaine and Bonnie and 8 grandchildren. One of the partners of B. Dulchin, Inc. for over 60 years. He will be in our hearts forever.       
 ILUTOVICH-Leon. Beloved husband of Renia and former Executive Vice Chairman of the Zionist Organization of America, passed away on Saturday, February 15. Memorial services will be held on Tuesday, February 18, 2 PM, at the Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue (91 St.), New York, NY. 
 METZ-Harold. On February 13, 1997, in Goldens Bridge, NY. A lifelong resident of Brooklyn, ''Harry'' was the son of the late Mollie Strongin Metz and Sydney Metz, who co-founded the Avenue Z Jewish Center. Harry graduated from Brooklyn Tech H.S. and Brooklyn College. In World War II he serv
 SCHNEIDERMAN - Morris. Be loved husband of Miriam, father of Arthur, Judy, Steven, Helaine, Paul and Bette. Devoted grandfather of Susan, Adam, David, Sheri, Stuart, Sheila, Debra, Jonathan, Andy and Scott, and greatgrandfather of Amy, Lowell and Austin. Devoted brother of Belle. ''Moishe''
 TESTA-Ettore. Passed away peacefully at home on February 15, at age 90, surrounded by his family: wife Constance, daughters Constance, Jeanette and Maria, son-in-law Robert Lutz, and grandson Eric. Also survived by his brother Guido and sisters, sistersin-law, nieces and nephews. Graduated 
 WASSERMAN-Milton. 71, after a courageous fight against cancer. Founder and President of MERJ Insurance Brokerage. Adored husband and life partner of Rhoda (Rosner) for forty-eight years. Loving father of Susan (Sanders), Jeffrey (Wasserman) and Debi (Snyder). Cherished grandfather of Adam, 
 The Rev. Robert A. Graham, an American priest who became one of the Roman Catholic Church's foremost authorities on the Vatican's role in the rescue of Jews in World War II, died on Feb. 10 at a Jesuit retirement home in Los Gatos, Calif. He was 84 and had been an outspoken defender of Pope
 Marion J. Epley Jr., a former president and chairman of Texaco Inc., died on Saturday at Harbour's Edge, a nursing home in Delray Beach, Fla., his family said. He was 89 years old. Mr. Epley, a lawyer by training,  became president of Texaco in 1964, and ran the company during a per
 Former Justice Oscar W. Adams Jr. of the Alabama Supreme Court, the first black ever elected to statewide office in Alabama, died on Saturday at the Baptist Medical Center-Montclair in Birmingham, his hometown. He was 72. The cause was an infection related to cancer, hospital offici
 BEHRENS-Rev. William F., 92, of Manchester Township, New Jersey, Sunday, February 16, 1997. Beloved father of William R., Barbara Cohan & Wilma Manning. Brother of Henry. Grandfather of eight, great-grandfather of ten. His wife Hazel passed away in 1985. Viewing Wedndsday 2-4 and 7-9 PM at 
 BURROWS-Selig S. Age 83. Cherished husband of the late Gladys. Died 2/16 peacefully in his sleep after a long and valiant struggle with lung disease. Adored father of Kenneth, Jonathan, & Patricia Burrows, loving father-in-law of Milt Wolfson & Erica Jong. Grandfather extraordinaire to Jess
 DULCHIN-Eli. On February 10. Survived by wife of 58 years, Gertrude, daughters, Marilyn, Elaine and Bonnie, three son-in-laws, Armin, Jerry, and Barry and 8 grandchildren. One of the partners of B. Dulchin, Inc. for over 60 years. He will be in our hearts forever.       
 HAWKS-Graham Granger, M.D. February 15. Age 85. Survived by his wife Margery, brother Byron and children Ria and Graham, Jr. W.W. II combat infantry Regiment Surgeon of the 77th Division in Pacific Theater. Discharged as Lt. Col. Professor Emeritus Obstetrics & Gynecology & former Director 
 HEIMAN-Martin Udo. In his 84th year. Beloved husband of Ruth K. Devoted father of Michael and (Paula) and Diane Heiman. Loving Opa of Jonathan and Eric. Devoted brother of Karl and (Susanna) and Heiner (Israel). Caring uncle and great uncle of his loving nieces and nephews. Good friend to m
 HELLER-Frank, 88, on Sunday. Beloved husband for 59 years of Grace Robinowitz Heller. Beloved father of Carol and Herb Corbin, Nancy Heller & Holly Gewandter. Beloved grandfather of Jeffrey, Suzanne and Leslie Corbin and Haley Heller Gewandter and great grandfather of Jessica Corbin. The fa
 ILUTOVICH-Leon. The Federation of Polish Jews mourns the passing of its Vice President. A leading Zionist personality who devoted all his talents to the Jewish people and to the land of Israel. A survivor of the Holocaust, he was a shining example of the glorious Polish Jewry. Our condolenc
 JONES-Bradford D. Died peacefully at age 83 after a long illness. A former editor of True Detective magazine and the author of hundreds of magazine articles published in the 1950's, Mr. Jones is survived by his loving wife Mary, and devoted son Stephen. Services will be at Frederick Funeral
 PASTERNACK-Jack. Uncle Jack was very special to us and he will continue to sing in our hearts forever. Anita, Arthur and all the children       
 SCHNEIDER-Howard, M.D. Beloved husband of the late Virginia. Devoted father of Deborah S. and Victor A. Greenhut and David Schneider. Dear brother of Warren J. and Lawrence B. Schneider. Loving grandfather of Adam and Nathan Greenhut. Services today 1:30 PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 
 SCHNEIDERMAN - Morris. Be loved husband of Miriam, father of Arthur, Judy, Steven, Helaine, Paul and Bette. Devoted grandfather of Susan, Adam, David, Sheri, Stuart, Sheila, Debra, Jonathan, Andy and Scott, and greatgrandfather of Amy, Lowell and Austin. Devoted brother of Belle, and the la
 SHAPERO-Edward B., MD, 86, on February 12, of a ruptured aneurysm. Dr. Shapero was a noted cancer surgeon and former Director of The Strang Clinic at New York Downtown Hospital. He was also an attending surgeon at The French-Polyclinic Hospital. Dr. Shapero was among the first 200 board cer
 TITUS-Alan Whitmore, 65, formerly of Locust Valley, NY passed away Sunday, February 16th, after a lengthy illness at Beaufort Memorial Hospital, Beaufort, SC. He was a former member of the Creek Club in Locust Valley, Long Island, NY and a Vice President of Citibank in New York City. Mr. Ti
 WEISS-David M., 89, of Boca Raton, FL., formerly of Lawrence L.I. and New York City, died on February 16, 1997. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Beatrice, daughters Cora Sue Simon and Jeannie Patricia Vine, sons-in-law David Simon and Dr. Ernest Vine, grandchildren Lainie J. Simon (A
 WHEELER-William T., born on July 24, 1946 in Shamokin, PA. Survived by his mother, Mrs. Monica Fitzpatrick of Shamokin and brothers Richard Wheeler of Rockville, MD, James Wheeler of Mechanicsburg, PA, and Michael Wheeler of Virginia Beach, VA.       
 T. Christopher Pettit, an investment banker who resigned last year as president of Lehman Brothers after disagreements over the direction of the company, died on Saturday near Windham, Me. He was 51. Mr. Pettit, of Brooklyn, died of head injuries suffered in a snowmobile accident th
 Darcy Ribeiro, an anthropologist who unlocked the cultural riches of Brazil's Indians for the rest of his country, died at a hospital in Brasilia on Monday. He was 74. The cause was cancer, according to a report from the Sarah Kubitschek Hospital. Though Mr. Ribeiro first ca
 Delaney Kiphuth, a former director of athletics at Yale and one of the first administrators of the Ivy League, died on Feb. 12 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 78. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said. Mr. Kiphuth was the only son of Robert J. H. Ki
 BURROWS-Selig S. Age 83. Cherished husband of the late Gladys. Died 2/16 peacefully in his sleep after a long and valiant struggle with lung disease. Adored father of Kenneth, Jonathan, & Patricia Burrows, loving father-in-law of Milt Wolfson & Erica Jong. Grandfather extraordinaire to Jess
 CHEN-Lin. On February 14, 1997. Beloved husband of Susie Chen. President of Summit Import Corporation and Kam Man Food Corporation. He will be deeply missed by his loving family and friends. Friends may call Friday February 21, 11am-7pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street
 DYCKMAN-William T. The Board of Directors of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. mourns the loss of William T. Dyckman, our colleague and friend, who died February 14 at the age of 79. Bill Dyckman's career with Parsons Brinckerhoff spanned nearly 50 years. He served the company as partner, senior vi
 GUTHRIE-Henry B. The Board of Directors of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation records with deep sorrow the death of our distinguished colleague on February 12, 1997. He served as a member of the Board since the Foundation was established, in 1946. As chairman of the Board for several 
 HELLER-Frank. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend and major supporter of YU, and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, beloved husband of Grace, member of the board of AECOM's National Women's Division, and father of
 JACKSON-Alzie. The members, Board and staff of Camp Sussex are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our friend and longtime chef, Alzie Jackson. Alzie was an inspiration and guide to the many young people that worked and trained in his kitchen. He was a dear friend to the children he co
 JONES-Bradford D. Died peacefully at age 83 after a long illness. A former editor of True Detective magazine and the author of hundreds of magazine articles published in the 1950's, Mr. Jones is survived by his loving wife Mary, and devoted son Stephen. Services will be at Frederick Funeral
 KORN-Irving. The Palm Beach Chapter of Women's American ORT mourns the passing of Irving Korn, husband of our esteemed member Lee Korn. He has been a longtime generous supporter of our organization.       
 LEVINE-Ike. The Partners and staff of Stephen I. Soble and Company are in deep mourning over the loss of our long-time partner and friend, Ike Levine. He was a great leader of our firm and a close personal friend to most of our clientele over the last twenty years. Our heartfelt sympathy go
 LEVINE-Morris H., CPA, of Merrick, NY and Coral Gables, FL, on February 17, 1997 after a long and courageous fight against Parkinson's Disease. Beloved husband for 60 years of Evelyn (nee Neilinger). Special brother and brotherin-law to Aaron Levine, Francine Levine, and Sam Blum and the la
 MEENAGHAN-Margaret. With profound sorrow, the administration, faculty and staff of NYU Ehrenkranz School of Social Work mourn the loss of Margaret Meenaghan, mother of Dean Thomas M. Meenaghan. Our deepest sympathy to the Dean and his family. In lieu of flowers, donations to Pax Christi Hos
 NORDBY-Jay J., age 42. On February 15, 1997. Devoted and beloved son of Dr. John and Ethel Nordby of CT., and brother of Wesley of CA. B.A. and M.A. in Russian from Middlebury College, M.A. in German from Princeton, Fulbright Fellowship, fluent in 11 languages and accomplished musician and 
 PRUSCH-Michael. 86, On February 16. Beloved husband of Grace for 58 years. He was a Charter Member of Motion Picture Editors Local 771 for 44 years, serving as Vice President for 18 years and President for 6 years. His Film Libriarian career extended over a 60 year period with Fox Movietone
 ROBBINS-Sidney. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Hts, NY mourns the untimely passing of our beloved member Sidney L. Robbins and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Beatrice and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Presiden
 ZIOGAS-Arthur. The New York Chapter of The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International express their sorrow at the passing of Arthur Ziogas father of Alexandra Ziogas, our esteemed Executive Director. To his family and loved ones we extend our deepest sympathy. Robert B. Obernier President  
 Deng Xiaoping, one of the founding revolutionaries of Communist China and the architect of economic modernizations that transformed the world's most populous nation, died Wednesday night in Beijing. He was 92. The official New China News Agency reported that Mr. Deng, who for the la
 Like Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai before him, Deng Xiaoping was among the small group of revolutionary elders who fought as guerrillas for the Communist cause and then dominated the leadership of the People's Republic they proclaimed on Oct. 1, 1949. Few if any figures in this century 
 Leo Rosten, the writer, scholar and language maven who introduced millions of Americans to the deep lexical pleasures of chutzpah and shlemiel and kibitz and nosh, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Rosten, who wrote dozens of works of fiction and nonfiction in 
 Warren Weaver Jr., who covered politics and government in Albany, in Washington and across the country for The New York Times for virtually all his 42 years as a reporter, died this morning at Georgetown University Medical Center here. He was 74 and lived in Washington. The cause wa
 Alphonse Marie Nkubito, a former Justice Minister of Rwanda and an outspoken voice for human rights and the rule of law, died on Feb. 13 at his home in the capital city of Kigali. He was 42. According reports from Rwanda radio, Mr. Nkubito, the founding president of the Rwandan Asso
 Antonio de Almeida, a conductor and musicologist who was an authority on the music of Offenbach and whose recordings helped restore the works of Massenet, Duparc and Chausson to the active repertory, died on Tuesday at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. He was 69 and had homes in 
 David A. McCann, a former publisher of Town & Country and Connoisseur magazines who was an expert at appealing to advertisers who wanted to appeal to the rich, died last  Friday at the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. He was 67. Mr. McCann, who lived in Lloyd Harbor, L.I., an
 Dr. Herbert B. Wilcox Jr., who practiced and taught medicine for four decades and whose patients included Winston Churchill and Sir Anthony Eden, died on Feb. 5 at the Evergreen Woods retirement home in North Branford, Conn. He was 88. Dr. Wilcox, an internist, was a staff doctor an
 CALLAWAY-Trowbridge, Jr., retired sugar company executive died February 17, 1996 after a long illness at his home in Delray Beach, Florida. Mr. Callaway formerly lived in Quogue, Long Island, New York, and in NYC. Born in 1912 in New York City, Mr. Callaway was educated at the Gunnery Schoo
 COHENCA-Jacques. Beloved husband of Emy. Loving father of Philip and Nevine. Adored Nono of Daniele, Adam, Stephanie, Jaime and Gregg. Cherished son-in-law of Vittoria. Father-in-law of Gail and Steven, and related family. Service at 10 A.M., on Friday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and
 GUTHRIE-Henry B. The trustees, administration, physicians, and staff of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center note with sadness the death of their distinguished, longtime, trustee and loyal friend. In 1953 he joined the board of Woman's Hospital, serving after its merger with St. Luke's Hosp
 HAWKS-Dr. Graham G. The Faculty and Staff of The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague Dr. Graham Hawks. A noted obstetrician and gynecologist, Dr. Hawks served as Director of Obstetrics from 1973 to 1979. Dr. Hawks was,
 HELLER-Frank. The Stein family mourns the death of our friend and counsel. Frank's quiet wisdom, fellowship, and generosity enriched the lives of all who were privileged to know him. May Grace and the entire Heller family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Moe, Gerry, Da
 KLEINFELD-Morris, M.D. Wellknown gerontologist and Founding Director of the Department of Long-Term Care Medicine at Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center from 1975 until 1994, member of the Emeritus Staff until his death. Served on numerous hospital and medical staff committees at KJMC. Graduat
 McKEEVER - Robert Emmet. Died peacefully February 5, 1997. Survived by his wife, Doris ''Suzie'' Baker; his former wife, Clara Tomkies, daughters, Sharon Surrarrer and Kimberly Kaye; son, Dow McKeever; a step-son Robert Nitzschke; grandchildren, Marc Surrarrer and Dara Kaye. He graduated fr
 MINARY-John S. The executors of the Estate of William S. Paley and the Directors of the William S. Paley Foundation express their condolences to the family of John S. Minary on his passing. John Minary served William S. Paley and his family loyally for over 50 years bringing to a task his g
 PINES-Arthur, of Cross River, NY. Passed away February 18, 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife Esther, loving children Michael (Joli Springer) Pines, Deborah Pines (Lori Scaeles), Judith (Jeff Shevell) and the late Steven Jeffrey Pines, cherished grandchildren Emily Shevell, Micah and 
 ROSENFELD-Joram. Madison Partners deeply mourns the untimely death of our dear friend and colleague. We extend our deepest sympathies to Sonia and the entire Rosenfeld family. Bobbie Abrams Irv Kagan Bill Lyons Bill Spier Mike Yudin ROSENFELD-Joram David. Bogen Communications Intern
 SAMUELS-Nathan L. February 19, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife, Beverly, sons, Stephen, William and Louis, sister, Lorraine and eight grandchildren. Funeral will be held at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck, 12 Noon, Friday, February 21.       
 SCHWEITZER-Herbert. On February 16, 1997. Beloved husband, father, Zaidy, brother-in-law, uncle and friend. He will always live on in our hearts.       
 SMOLIAN-Sheldon, 83, of Redding, CT, passed away February 17, 1997 in Scottsdale, AZ. Harvard University '36. Chairman of the Board of Lorraine Industries, Bridgeport, CT, until his retirement. Survived by his wife Miriam; daughters Barbara Gerber of CA, Laura Megroz of VT, Margery Chapman 
 SNELL-Milford B. Renowned pianist and vocal coach, died on February 17, 1997, age 91 years. He leaves no immediate survivors. Funeral services will be held on Monday, February 24, at 7:30PM in the St. Ignatius Church, 87th Street and West End Avenue.       
 STUNZI-Jacques R. Resident of Darien, CT. Died on February 13, 1997 in Darien. Born on May 16, 1920 in Lancaster, PA to the late Jean Jacques Stunzi and Lilly Handchin Stunzi. Graduate of Yale University, Class of 1942. International Banker and Senior Business Executive. Foreign Department,
 DILL-David. January 8, 1997. A celebration of his life will be held Monday, February 24, 1997, 5PM at the Puck Building, 295 Lafayette St, NY. Donations may be made to Roswell Park Alliance Foundation, POB 631, Buffalo, NY 14240-9856. Checks should be designated ''In memory of David Dill-Pa
 Charles Schinitsky, a champion of the legal rights of children whose work helped to revolutionize the juvenile court system in New York in a way that became a model for court systems nationwide, has died and will be honored in a program at the Association of the Bar of the City of New York 
 Darold Dobs, the executive director of the American Bowling Congress, died in Milwaukee on Feb. 10. He was 54. The cause was cancer, the congress said. Mr. Dobs took over leadership of the A.B.C., the national sanctioning body for bowling with more than 2,500 local associati
 Lewis Jacobs, a writer, film maker and teacher, died on Feb. 11 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 92 and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Mr. Jacobs was the author of ''The Rise of the American Film,'' first published in 1939 and subsequently reprinted six times.
 Manfred Klafter, a Dutch Holocaust survivor who founded an Israeli organization offering psychological and social support to Israel's 300,000 Holocaust survivors and their families, died on Feb. 6 in Bern. He was 77 and lived in Jerusalem. He died of injuries suffered 10 days earlie
 ABRAMS-Allan. We at Menorah Home and Hospital note with sincere regret the loss of the beloved father of Robert Abrams, our most esteemed board member. We extend personal condolences to Bob and his family. Fred Abrams, President Paul Melinger, Chairman of the Board Shirley Windheim, Executi
 CHMIELEWSKI-Richard (Rick). Age 60, of Greenwich Village, NY died on Thursday, February 20, 1997 of heart disease complicated by AIDS. After a long career with the NYPD, Rick founded and was proprietor of Rick & Company, and was president of the Greenwich Avenue Merchants Association. He wi
 COHENCA-Jacques. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member Jacques Cohenca. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife, Emilia, and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Norman Zarki
 FARRELL-W. Ranger, 71, acoustical architect and graduate of M.I.T. School of Architecture, died February 16th. He joined the firm of Bolt, Beranek & Newman in its early days and was later transferred to NY. Subsequently, he established Ranger Farrell & Associates in Tarrytown, NY, taking on
 JONES-James Monroe, M.D. Of Bronxville, NY on February 20, 1997. Beloved husband of Agnes. Dear father of Deborah Lash and Gwyneth Jones. A memorial service will be held at the Reformed Church of Bronxville on Tuesday, February 25 at 4:30PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in 
 KLEINSCHMIDT-Hans, 83, psychiatrist and art collector. Dr. Hans Joachim Kleinschmidt, who practiced and taught psychiatry in New York for five decades, died on February 21 in his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 83. Born in Prostkin, East Prussia in 1913, Dr. Kleinschmidt grew
 MINARY-John S. The executors of the Estate of William S. Paley and the Directors of the William S. Paley Foundation express their condolences to the family of John S. Minary on his passing. John Minary served William S. Paley and his family loyally for over 50 years bringing to a task his g
 NORTON-Dudley W. The Board of Directors, Administration and Medical and Dental Staff of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center expresses their deepest sorrow on the death of Dudley W. Norton, former Chairman of the Board of Directors and long-time supporter of the Medical Center. Words
 PENDEL-Ronni. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY mourns the loss of Ronni Pendel, sister of our Board member Michael Weiss, and extends sympathy to his family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Jeffrey Scherr, President       
 PINES-Arthur, of Cross River, NY. Passed away February 18, 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife Esther, loving children Michael (Joli Springer) Pines, Deborah Pines (Lori Scaeles), Judith (Jeff Shevell) and the late Steven Jeffrey Pines, cherished grandchildren Emily Shevell, Micah and 
 ROSENFELD-Joram D. Kellstrom Industries, Inc., deeply mourns the loss of its Co-Chairman, Joram D. Rosenfeld. His advice and friendship will always be missed and we extend our most sincere condolences to Joram's family.       
 WALLACE-Julius. Born in the Bronx, New York in his 89th year. One of ten children. Survived by his brother, Louis Wallace, his nephew and companion Melvin Wallace, his sister-in-law and companion Rita Wallace & numerous nieces and nephews. Julius was an officer of Hall Jewelers, Inc., a ret
 Dr. Robert Herman, a physicist who began his career by predicting echoes of the origin of the cosmos and later developed a new field called traffic sciences in which statistics can be used to predict traffic jams, died on Feb. 13 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 82. The cause was 
 Albert Shanker, who rose from being a substitute mathematics teacher to become a tough, canny labor leader who in the 1960's transformed New York City's United Federation of Teachers into one of the nation's most powerful unions, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in M
 Archer Winsten, who spent 50 years turning out crisp, thoughtful movie reviews for The New York Post, but only, he insisted, because he found the job a pleasant enough alternative to actual work, died on Friday at a daughter's home in Moreau, N.Y. He was 92 and had retired in 1986. 
 James T. Tierney, formerly chief executive of the Fund for Peace, a nonprofit organization that focuses on such issues as human rights, the security of nations and conflict resolution, died on Jan. 26 at his home in Phoenix. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daugh
 Leonard (Buddy) Edelen Jr., the first American marathoner in nearly four decades to set a world record, died of cancer in Tulsa, Okla., on Wednesday. He was 59. Edelen cut 48 seconds off the world record when he won Britain's Polytechnic Marathon, covering the 26 miles 385 yards in 
 BENJAMIN-W. Hoffman 87, of Garrison, NY and NYC, in peace at home on February 20th. Devoted husband to Joan Ellett. Loving father to Beverley Goodwin, John Bigelow and Nathaniel Prime. Six grandchildren and five siblings and many others will miss his love and charity. Funeral services Satur
 BURGESS-Louis. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of The Brookdale University Hospital & Medical Center mourn the loss of Louis Burgess, Chairman of Community Board 17; a great humanitarian, a devoted friend of the hospital and a pillar in the community. Our sincere sym
 COHEN-Herbert C. On February 21, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Sophie. Adoring father of Jo and Gordon Gaynor. Proud grandfather of Stephanie, Lane, Adam, Scott and Lauren. Cherished great-grandfather of Cameron. Graveside service is on Sunday at 1 P.M., at the Mount Pleasant Cemetery, 
 De SANE-John Wesley, 68, of Englewood, died Friday at Englewood Hospital. He was a resident of Englewood for over 40 years. He was born in Bamburg, SC. Received his master's degree from Columbia University. A member of Community Baptist Church, 224 1st Street, Englewood, NJ. An author/educa
 HADDAD-Bruce Ernest, 43, senior vice president-international operations for the GTE Corp and his wife, Dorothy Summers Haddad, in an airplane crash February 19 near Guatemala City airport in Guatemala. The couple, who were traveling on business, perished when the chartered jet, carrying a c
 KINGSTON-Douglas P., Jr. Age 71. Died on Feb. 22, 1997, at his home in Bristol, VT. Born in Buffalo, NY, the only son of Frances H. and Douglas P. Kingston. He is survived by his wife Sarah ''Sally'' Evans Kingston in Bristol, VT, his sons Douglas P. III, David E., and Thomas ''TK'' H. King
 LAZARNICK-Richard F. Age 39. On January 26, in Huntington Beach, CA. Survived by his life partner, Paul M. Bradley, III in Lewes, DE. by his brother, Dr. Peter Lazarnick of Carrollton, Ga., his sister, Dana Osterman of Norwood, NJ and his fathers, Philip Sherbert also of Norwood, NJ and Jos
 MOORE-Jerome R. At 65, on February 9th, in NYC after a demoralizing two-year battle with cancer. Served USAF 1951-54 as Russian-German language specialist in Berlin. Final two years, headed up top secret project there. Upon release, attended Columbia University; graduated magna cum laude, a
 MORRISON-Jack S. Born in Santa Barbara, CA, December 17, 1912. Died February 20, 1997, in Santa Barbara, CA. Jack was the son of Charles ''Chick'' Morrison, Studio Manager of Flying A Studios of Santa Barbara and Anna Marie Sandberg Morrison. Jack Morrison was a graduate of UCLA and receive
 PASTERNACK (PASTOR)-Jack. Born on the Lower East Side on 22 December 1902; died at Lenox Hill Hospital on 15 February 1997. Box office manager of the Palace Theater back-when; song plugger known as The Boy with the Golden Voice; drummer; comedian; singer; master of ceremonies; merchandiser;
 PROUT-Thomas Peck Jr., 79, of East Dorset, VT. Formerly of Summit, NJ. On February 12, 1997. He is survived by his wife Joann Hill Prout, a sister Virginia Prout Combs of Wickenburg, AZ., a daughter Claudia Prout Casey of Peapack, N.J., a son Nicholas LeHuray Prout of Hoboken, NJ, a stepdau
 ROBINSOHN-Jacob, on February 21st, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Ruth Maier Robinsohn and brother of Mendel. Trained in engineering at Columbia University and in law at New York University. For over sixty years, he was an attorney for the New York City Corporation Counsel's Office and a
 ROSE-Meyer, of Houston, TX, on February 18, 1997, in Harrisburg, PA. Survived by his wife Frances (nee Levy); a daughter, Miriam Kalman Harris of Dallas; 5 sons: Elliott of Scarsdale, NY, Phillip of Woodland Hills, CA., Stephen of New Orleans, Joel of Harrisburg, Herbert Kalman of Houston; 
 SARNOFF-Robert William. Age 78, of NYC, died Feb. 22, at Lenox Hill Hospital after a long illness. Beloved husband of Anna Moffo, brother of Edward and Thomas, father of Rosita Sarnoff, Serena Benenson and Claudia Parrot; grandfather of Adam, Toby and Felicia Jeanne Benenson. Funeral servic
 SPECTOR-Herbert, 81. Beloved husband of Sylvia (Schachner), died on February 19, 1997 in Sarasota, Florida. Born in New York City in 1915. He was a graduate of Fordham University and Fordham Law School and an attorney in NYC since 1938. Following his service in World War II, Mr. Spector bec
 STAFF-Julius G. (''Buddy''), died on Feb. 15, 1997. He was the son of the late Commissioner Samuel G. Staff and the late Alice Grossman Staff. He was a graduate of the Barnard School for Boys and attended Hobart College, Geneva, NY. Mr. Staff was graduated from the University of Miami, Cora
 TELTSCH-Dr. Victor Irving, of Shelter Island, NY, on February 22, 1997. Survived by his devoted wife, Marjorie, brother, Dr. Edward Teltsch, sister, Kathleen Teltsch, and in-laws, the Dorothy Ryder family. Memorial service to be held in March.       
 WORTHINGTON-Johnson, age 84, beloved husband of Frances Claudet Johnson, died Feb. 20, 1997. He was educated at the Choate School and Brown University and remained active in his philanthropic dedication to the Choate-Rosemary Hall School, the Fairfield Country Day School and the Wakeman Boy
 DRABKIN-Steven Wayne. 10/19/ 61-2/23/81. Memory has painted his image with colors that never fade. He is so dear to our hearts.       
 Robert W. Sarnoff, who succeeded his father as chairman of the RCA Corporation and steered it into a hodgepodge of new businesses before being removed more than 20 years ago in a ''palace revolt,'' died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. His wife, th
 Albert Shanker, who rose from being a substitute mathematics teacher to become a tough, canny labor leader who in the 1960's transformed New York City's United Federation of Teachers into one of the nation's most powerful unions, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in
 Geoffrey Swaebe, a department store executive who ran the May Company's southern California operations for 10 years and later served five years as Ambassador to Belgium under Ronald Reagan, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Los Angeles. He was 86. His son, Geoffrey Jr.,
 GOLDMAN-Oscar. On February 22. Devoted husband of the late Mitzi Goldman. Beloved father of Naomi (Shlomo) Breines of Jerusalem and Susan (Shelly) Kramer of Queens. Loving grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be sorely missed. Shiva observed until Friday, February 28 at 144-41 69th Av
 JOHNSON-Worthington, age 84, beloved husband of Frances Claudet Johnson, died Feb. 20, 1997. He was educated at the Choate School and Brown University and remained active in his philanthropic dedication to the Choate-Rosemary Hall School, the Fairfield Country Day School and the Wakeman Boy
 LOGSDON-Richard H. Former Director of Libraries for Columbia University. Of New York City and South Egremont, MA, died on Saturday, February 22, 1997. A Eucharistic Service will be conducted on Friday, 11 AM, at St. James Episcopal Church in Great Barrington, MA. Donations in his memory may
 SARNOFF-Robert W. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member and Officer with the title of Prior, Friar Robert W. Sarnoff, on Saturday, February 22. His strength, spirit, devotion and dedication have guided us over the last few ye
 SHANKER-Albert, 68, President of the American Federation of Teachers, 1974-Present; President of the United Federation of Teachers, 1964-1986. Senior Vice-President, AFL-CIO Executive Council, 1973-present. Died Saturday, February 22, 1997, of complications from cancer at Memorial SloanKett
 SIMON-Merrill J. We mourn his very sudden loss. He was a deeply devoted man of Israel and a special person, a loving husband to Amalia, devoted to his children and his grandchildren. We will miss Merrill very much. Ira, Risa, Andrew and Mikayla Bellach       
 DILL-David. January 8, 1997. A celebration of his life will be held Monday, February 24, 1997, 5PM at the Puck Building, 295 Lafayette St, NY. Donations may be made to Roswell Park Alliance Foundation, POB 631, Buffalo, NY 14240-9856. Checks should be designated ''In memory of David Dill-Pa
 Robert W. Sarnoff, who succeeded his father as chairman of the RCA Corporation and steered it into a hodgepodge of new businesses before being removed more than 20 years ago in a ''palace revolt,'' died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. His wife, 
 Walter Sorell, an erudite and prolific writer about dance and esthetics, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 91 and had residences in Manhattan and Zurich. Mr. Sorell, who was the New York dance critic for The Providence Journal from 1950 to
 BRODSKY-Philip C., on January 24, 1997 of cancer. Beloved and adored husband of Jeanne, cherished father and grandfather of sons Paul, Gabriel and Eugene, daughter-in-law Karen, children Nancy, Marc and Sue Lazarus and grandchildren Sascha, Kirsten, Anya, Kate, Emma, brother Nathan and sist
 GARBER-Sidney. On February 24, 1997. Beloved husband of Sophie, loving father of Lynn Garber Weiden and father-in-law of Dr. Michael Weiden. Cherished grandfather of Aurora. Dear brother of Casper Garber. Services Wednesday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 KATZ-Max on February 23, 1997. L.L.B. from Fordham Law School 1930, survived by his wife May, his sons Jeffrey and Elliot, his daughter-in-law Lorraine, grandchildren Benjamin and Emma, brother David and sister Naoma. He will be missed by his many friends whom he loved to host and entertain
 LEWISON-Louis, 89, of Miami, FL, passed away on Friday, February 21, 1997. Mr. Lewison was a retired attorney who practiced civil law in New York City for over 40 years. For many years he was executive vice president and general counsel for the Amalgamated Mutual Casualty Co. in Queens, NY.
 LOEB-Philip. On January 24, 1997. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of New York City. Dear husband of Ronnie Eisman Loeb. Beloved father of Carla (Leonard) Feinkind, Beryl (David) Hoffman and Anita (John Rafkin) Levin. Adored grandfather of seven. Dear brother of Jack Loeb. Funeral Sunday, Januar
 LOGSDON-Richard H. Former Director of Libraries for Columbia University. Of New York City and South Egremont, MA, died on Saturday, February 22, 1997. A Eucharistic Service will be conducted on Friday, 11 AM, at St. James Episcopal Church in Great Barrington, MA. Donations in his memory may
 MAJOR-Claude, 39, of Manhattan and St. Eustache, Quebec, died Monday, February 24, 1997 after a brief illness. During the 1980's, Mr. Major was national sales manager for Nicole Farhi, an English sportswear company. A native of St. Eustache, Quebec, Mr. Major graduated from the University o
 MINARY-John S., O.B.E., attorney and personal financial advisor to William S. Paley, died Tuesday, Feb. 18, after a short illness at his home in Charlottesville, VA. He was 88. Mr. Minary was born in Benton Harbor, Mich., the son of Charles K. Minary and Margaret Bowmer Minary. He was a gra
 MORLEY-Joseph F., 65, of Cooperstown, NY, died Friday afternoon, February 21, 1997 at his home. He retired in 1990 as Vice President of the Securities Industry Association. His family has requested that expressions of sympathy in the form of memorial donations be made to the Morley Family S
 MOTULSKY-Claus. Died Jan. 14, 1997, of a heart attack. Husband of Ursula; father of John, Michele and Dan. Memorial service on Jan. 27 at Yale Club, NY, 4:45 PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to International Center for the Disabled, 340 E 24, NYC.       
 REISMAN-William, 95, on Feb. 24 in Vero Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Edna for 70 years; loving father of Robert and daughter-inlaw, Toby; cherished grandfather of Larry, his wife Lee, and greatgrandfather of Rhett, all of Vero Beach; and granddaughter Shari of Atlanta. Formerly of Washingt
 SALZBURG-Joseph. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Devoted father of Barbara London and Karen Beer. Loving brother of Irving. Cherished grandfather of Scott, Jill, Nicole, Debbie and Tim, Adam, and Eric. Great-grandfather of Alex Danielle. Service Tuesday, 10 AM, at Temple Emanuel of Gre
 SAPPERN-Yale W. In New Haven, Ct., Feb 22, 1997. Husband of Pietrina Rizzo Sappern of 7 Melba St., Milford, Ct. He was Administrative Chief of Family Division of the Superior Court for the Judicial District of New Haven for 30 years and distinguished member of State Task Force Against Famil
 SARNOFF-Robert William. Age 78, of NYC, died Feb. 22, at Lenox Hill Hospital after a long illness. Beloved husband of Anna Moffo, brother of Edward and Thomas, father of Rosita Sarnoff, Serena Benenson and Claudia Parrot; grandfather of Adam, Toby and Felicia Jeanne Benenson. Funeral servic
 SHANKER-Albert. The members, officers and staff of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, AFL-CIO, CLC mourn the loss of Albert Shanker, an extraordinary trade union leader and a true champion of working people and their families throughout the world. Our sincere condolences go o
 SIMON-Merrill. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the untimely passing of our generous patron and Presidential Founder, Merrill Simon. He published many volumes through which he was helpful to the business world. His greatest achievement was, however, that he disco
 TABAK-Abraham. On February 23, 1997, age 95. Beloved husband of Ethel Triebwasser, first wife Tesse Tabak (died in 1976). Survived by children, Frances Cooperman, Bella Feldman, Sylvia Hoffstein, and Harry Tabak, nine grandchildren and ten great grandchildren. He was a good father and a kin
 van den WALL BAKE-Hugo. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved friend and mentor, leading light of our Society, whose love of learning encouraged, inspired and gathered us into one large loving family. Our heartfelt sympathy to his children and grandchildren. Westchester Society, A.I.A.   
 WEINBERG-Eugene ''Gene'' of Pipersville, PA formerly of New York, New York, died Sunday night after a protracted illness. He was 86. Beloved husband of Emmeline Epstein Weinberg. Father of Michael and the late Alex. Grandfather of Mia Weinberg Clinton and Michael Weinberg, Jr. Great-grandfa
 Not every 36-year-old freshly arrived in Manhattan is immediately invited to dinner (and provided with a tuxedo) by Ralph Lauren, or to a lunch given by the Vogue editor Anna Wintour for Katharine Graham, or to an opening of the Byzantium exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, or to 
 Andrei Sinyavsky, a Russian dissident and writer whose imprisonment in the 1960's marked the end of the more liberal period after Stalin's death, died today at his home in the Paris suburb of Fontenay-aux-Roses. He was 71 and emigrated to France in 1973. The cause was cancer, his so
 Martin Slate, the executive director of the Government corporation that insures the pensions of 41 million Americans and a civil servant repeatedly honored for innovative solutions to regulatory problems, died on Sunday night, the White House announced yesterday. He was 51. His wife
 BARNES-Frank P. Husband of Dorothy. Son of the late Doris Plummer Barnes, former Senator, U.S. Territory, Alaska, and the late Frank Scott Barnes, proprietor Salmon Canneries in Alaska, passed away February 21, 1997. He was a graduate of Stanford University School of Engineering. He was a r
 BROMSEN-William E., of Cliffside Park, New Jersey, died Monday, February 24, of complications resulting from Alzheimer's Disease. Beloved husband of Dawn (nee Katz). Devoted father of Ellen K. and Amy Bromsen. Father-in-law of William Parker. Brother of Maury A. Grandfather of Daniel Bromse
 CHAPIN-Earl, on January 21, 1997 in Greenfield, MA. Beloved husband of Lynne Rudie, father of Kenneth (and Ellen), Paul (and Janice), Julia (and Alcides Filho), grandfather of Sarah, Matthew and Sarah, Godfather of Ingrid Rudie. Earl had a long and illustrious career as a french horn player
 COE-Jacques. The entire partnership of Cowen & Company mourns the passing of our longtime friend and eminent colleague, Jacques Coe, 103. Widely recognized as the oldest active broker on Wall Street, Jacques joined Cowen & Company in 1964 as a limited partner. He epitomized an exceptional s
 COLE-S. Mulford, January 24, in the 92nd year of his extraordinary life, at home in Palm Beach, FL. So loved by his wife of 64 years, Sylvia (Peanut), daughter and sonin-law Carolyn and Fred Shulman, son and daughter-in-law, Richard and Ellen Cole, 5 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren,
 CUNNINGHAM-Francis J. Major U.S. Army (Retired), 82 and the beloved husband of Dorothy Cunningham, died at his home in Venice, FL, on Monday, February 24, 1997. Born in Chicago, IL, October 3, 1914, Frank was the son of James Cunningham and Katherine Fitzpatrick Cunningham. He graduated fro
 DROOZ-Richard B., M.D. On January 24, 1997. Formerly of Albany, NY. Beloved husband of Miriam. Devoted psychoanalyst and physician, mentor and friend to many. His dedication and elegance touched all those who knew him. His death leaves a void that can never be filled. Services Sunday, 1:30 
 DRUCKER-Philip. On January 24, 1997. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Mitchel and Harvey. Adoring grandfather of Teddy and Katie and Lee. Dear father-in-law of Susan and Jeri. Founder of Drucker Associates Real Estate Co. and co-founder of Philmar Fabrics, Inc. His wonderful, w
 FARKAS-Louis Sr. The President, Board of Governors, and the New York Board of Overseers, administration, faculty, staff and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with deep sorrow the passing of Louis Farkas Sr., beloved fatherin-law of Rabbi Zahara Davidowitz-F
 FIRESTONE-Henry, of Evanston, IL and Bay Harbor, FL, died on February 20 in Miami, FL. Born January 13, 1917, in New York City, Mr. Firestone was a graduate of New York University and its Law School. Mr. Firestone served under General George S. Patton's Tank Division in Europe, participated
 GARBER-Sidney. He will be sorely missed, but long remembered. In lieu of flowers, send donations to The Foundation for the Jewish Community. The Silvermans       
 GELBTUCH-David. We extend our Kos Tanchumim to Benjamin Gelbtuch on the loss of his beloved father, David Gelbtuch. Benjamin, along with his wife Hadassa, are Golden Founders of the Hospital, benefactors of the Woman and Infant Center and long-time supporters of our Annual Dinner and Concer
 GUILE-Dickson B., age 75, of Stuart, Florida. Died on Tuesday, February 25 at Martin Memorial Medical Center, Stuart. He was born and grew up in Rockville Centre, NY and was a longtime resident of Huntington, NY and moved to Stuart from Amityville, NY. He was graduated from Southside High S
 KELLY-William P, on February 23, 1997. Beloved husband of Dolores A. (nee Marlin) of Cherry Hill, NJ. Age 76. Loving father of Claudia Seaver of Ketchikan, AK and William G. Kelly of Cherry Hill. Devoted grandfather of Sean and Ryan Seaver both of Ketchikan, AK. Dear brother of James Kelly 
 LEGON-Ira R. on January 22, 1997, in Asheville, North Carolina. He was the former president of S. Appel and Company, the preeminent manufacturer of custom tailored uniforms in the United States. In his position, he was devoted to the success and prosperity of the uniform industry, of which 
 McCALL-Howard Weaver, Jr., of Darien, CT, died at his home on February 24, 1997. Born in Chattanooga in 1907 and graduate of the University of Virginia, he retired as President of the Chemical Bank in 1972. He is survived by his wife, Jane, three children, Nancy Watson, Howard, III, Jane Po
 PETRUCELLI-Rocco Joseph II, M.D., born on September 20, 1943, deceased Jan. 24, 1997, medical historian and author of ''Medicine, An Illustration.'' Graduate of Yale College, M.D. magna cum laude; History of Medicine, Harvard Medical School. Dr. Petrucelli received Boylston Medical Society 
 RANDELMAN-Milton, on Feb. 25 at Lenox Hill Hospital. Survived by his beloved wife Roslyn, his loving son and daughter-in-law Hal and Mary Randelman, two adored grandchildren Craig and Nicole Randelman, three devoted sisters: Jimmie Josephson, Beulah Glickman, and Evelyn Rifkin. Member of Co
 REINISCH-Otto. Died on February 25, 1997 at home at the age of 91. He is survived by his wife, Marjorie (nee Bronne) and daughter, Carol Louise. Memorial services will be held in Glens Falls, NY, at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the North Shore Hospital, Manhass
 SALZBURG-Joe. Our heartfelt sympathy to all his family. We will always remember Joe as a kind, warm, concerned human being who had a real zest for living and a tremendous love for his family. Donna and Philip       
 SCHORE-Ben. On February 25, 1997, age 85, after many years of battling multiple cancers, much loved by his wife of 53 years, Lore J., and by his children, Robin and Jennifer Schore, Wendy and Wayne Buckley. Granddaddy of David, Jeffrey and Cathy Buckley; Cordelia Schore and the late Rachel.
 SEACAT-Milvoy (Mel), died early morning January 22, of pulmonary failure. Mel was a medical sociologist, a professor at New York Medical College, a co-founder of Printique High-Fashion Fabrics and a dedicated shopper. Funeral and burial will be in Marion, IN. He is survived by his companion
 SHANKER-Albert. The Board of Directors of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York mourn the loss of Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers. Our heartfelt condolences go to his family and colleagues in recognition of his many years of educational leadership in
 STEINGLASS-Meyer F. Age 89. Of Bronx, N.Y., Westport, CT. and Manchester, N.H. passed away in peace on the morning of February 25, 1997. He spent over forty years in service to the Jewish community and Israel, with the United Palestine Appeal, United Jewish Appeal and the Israel Bond Organi
 STONE-Clive. Past Master of Publicity Lodge 1000 of the Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York. Passed away on February 15, 1997. He will be greatly missed by the members of the Lodge. Aldo Smith, Master Publicity Lodge 1000 F&AM       
 STRAUS-Robert K. formerly of New York City, died on February 24, 1997 at St Francis Hospital in Santa Barbara, CA. Straus is survived by his wife, Barbara, his daughter, Penelope More of Olema, CA and his son, Christopher Jesse of Santa Barbara. A stepson, Simon Flower, lives in Kingston, E
 TEMEL-Max. Beloved husband of Hannah (Hanka). Devoted father of David and Cory, Charles and Judy, Sofia and Jay Maisler, George and Shana. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Brian, Aaron, Erica, Laura, Dan, Greg and Alex. Adored great-grandfather of Adam and Brandon. Funeral Service on Monday, a
 VACCARO-Frank, Hon. Judge. On Feb 24, 1997. Beloved husband of Victoria. Loving father of Regina D'Anna and Patricia Maresca. Proud grandfather of Frank and Averi. Dear brother of Marion Malapero and Joseph. Also survived by nieces and nephews. Visiting Wed and Thurs 2-5 and 7-9pm McLaughli
 WEINBERG-Eugene ''Gene'' of Pipersville, PA formerly of New York, New York, died Sunday night after a protracted illness. He was 86. Beloved husband of Emmeline Epstein Weinberg. Father of Michael and the late Alex. Grandfather of Mia Weinberg Clinton and Michael Weinberg, Jr. Great-grandfa
 WEINRAUB-William C. L. Age 49, of Norcross, GA. Beloved husband of Anita Z. Devoted father of Stephanie and brother of Jerome. Graduate of Horace Mann School, Yale University, University of Massachusetts, he was an accomplished businessman, craftsman, musician, and raconteur. His passing le
 PERLBINDER-Arnold H. 11/20/28-1/28/94. He is with us, alive in our hearts. Perlbinder Family       
 Tony Williams, a drummer whose innovations made him one of the most influential jazz musicians of the last half-century, died on Sunday at the Seton Medical Center in Daly City, Calif. He was 51. The cause was a heart attack, said his publicist, Kirk Tanksley. Mr. Williams w
 Cal Abrams, a Brooklyn Dodger outfielder whose otherwise ordinary career was punctuated by an extraordinary moment underlining the Brooklyn fans' lament, ''Wait Till Next Year,'' died on Tuesday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 72. Abrams, who lived in Tamarac, Fla., died at North Ri
 Ion Cioaba, who proclaimed himself King of All Gypsies Everywhere but wielded most of his meager influence as a political gadfly in his native Romania, died on Sunday at a hospital in Bucharest. He was 62 and reportedly died of a heart attack. A native of Sibiu, in Transylvania, Mr.
 ARONOWITZ-Albert M. The attorneys and staff of the law firm of Aronowitz and Singer mourn the loss of Albert M. Aronowitz, Esq. He was a kind and gentle man and a father figure to us all. For almost 60 years he was a devoted lawyer, diligently representing his clients with skill and compass
 AUSLANDER-Louis. The faculty, students and staff of The Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Louis Auslander, Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science and faculty member since 1971. We extend our mo
 BARNES-Frank P. Husband of Dorothy. Son of the late Doris Plummer Barnes, former Senator, U.S. Territory, Alaska, and the late Frank Scott Barnes, proprietor Salmon Canneries in Alaska, passed away February 21, 1997. Father of Margaret A. Barnes of NYC. He was a graduate of Stanford Univers
 BRENNGLASS-Mark. Congregation Orach Chaim records with sorrow the recent passing of our member for more than five decades, and expresses condolences to his distinguished brother Samuel Lawrence, our devoted member for many years. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi Abraham Sinnreich, M.D., Pres.
 BRETL-John of Barrington, RI. Our friend, a gentleman for all seasons. Successful investment banker, accomplished artisan and sailor. His analytic mind, intellectual curiosity, keen eye and love of perfection were apparent in all he undertook. We will remember his love of family, warmth, wi
 COE-Jacques, stockbroker, died on February 23, 1997 at age 103. Spent 88 years on Wall Street. Beloved husband of the late Florence Curtis Coe (formerly married to Clara Bartels Coe). Loving father of Jean Fink and the late Jacques Coe, Jr. and Tech/Sgt. William Coe, and devoted stepfather 
 D'ARCY-Michael Ralph, on February 25, 1997. Furniture maker and designer, age 30, of Manhattan. Son of Blaine Edward and Beverly Ann. Survived by his loving friend John L. Stewart. Mother Beverly Ann of Arlington, VA, brother Jeff, USAF, of Germany, sisters Patricia Andes of Herndon, VA and
 DEAN-Sidney W., Jr. The family and friends of Sidney W. Dean, Jr., will always remember him with love as father, friend, mentor and exemplar of a life well lived. He departed this life January 24, at his home in Greenwich Village, age 91. A lifelong champion of civil liberties, active in th
 DROOZ-Richard B. The Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourns the passing of its longtime member and cherished colleague, and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Harvey B. Bezahler, M.D., Pres Charles Goodstein, M.D., Secy DROOZ-Richard, M.D. His knowledge, wisdom, cour
 DUTTON-Aubrey Whiteley, age 86, of Brooklyn, NY, on January 25, 1997, in Allentown, Pennsylvania. Born on August 23, 1910 to Lawrence Amor Dutton and Eunice Holt (Whiteley) Dutton at Twin Oaks, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, on a farm owned by the Dutton famly since 1682. Resident of the Fl
 FREEMAN-Benjamin Walter, at age 86 on January 25, 1997 in Margate, FL after a long illness. Beloved husband of Claire for 57 beautiful years, father of Debra and Barry Goldman, and Lynn and David Pravda, doting and loving grandfather to Lisa, Heather, and William Goldman, and Jacqueline and
 GARBER-Sidney. He will be sorely missed, but long remembered. In lieu of flowers, send donations to The Foundation for the Jewish Community. The Silvermans       
 GERBER-Irving A., D.D.S. A man of accomplishment and good humor, who excelled at everything he attempted-dentistry, musicianship, athletics and most of all fatherhood. Beloved husband of the late Paula, father of Marc and Terry, grandfather of Lauren Partridge and Michelle Gerber, greatgran
 KATZ-Percy. Of Greenwich, CT, on January 24, at the Greenwich Hospital. Husband of the late Blanche Landau Katz, with whom he will be buried in Scottsdale, AZ. Father of Gerald Katz of Pound Ridge, NY, and Lawrence Katz of Scottsdale, AZ. Brother of Estelle Glass and Frances Cohen, both of 
 KNOX-Samuel Doughty, 86, of Stonington, CT., retired VP of RH Macy Corporation, former resident of Glen Ridge, NJ. Survived by his wife, Katherine (McLean) Knox; a son, H. Howard Knox; a daughter, Susan J. Knox; and a grandson, Davis Kitchings Knox. Information, call Dinoto Funeral Home, My
 KRUG-Paul L., 83, of Boynton Beach, Florida, passed away on February 25, 1997. Mr. Krug was an executive with the Krug Baking Company of New York and H.D. Catty Company in Connecticut. He was a graduate of Canterbury School, New Milford, CT and Yale University 1936. Mr. Krug is survived by 
 LOGSDON-Richard H. Former Director of Libraries for Columbia University. Of New York City and South Egremont, MA., died on Saturday, February 22, 1997. A Eucharistic Service will be conducted on Friday, 11 A.M., at St. James Episcopal Church in Great Barrington, MA. Donations in his memory 
 McCALL-Howard, Jr. We at NYU Medical Center mourn the loss of a dear friend and devoted Life Trustee & former Vice Chairman of our Board of Trustees, Howard McCall, Jr. He was an outstanding and highly respected trustee who was a remarkable individual. He was dedicated to pursue excellence 
 O'CONNOR-Wilfred R. Judge of the Civil Court, former Director of the Legal Aid Society's Prison Legal Assistants' Program, and former Associate Attorney-In-Charge at the Queens Supreme Court Branch of the Legal Aid Society, on January 23, 1997 at Calvary Hospital. The Board, members and sta
 RIVARD-Rev. Robert J. The Vincentian Community announces the death of Father Rivard, C.M. on February 25, 1997. Survived by his loving sisters, Rita Flood, Beatrice Kelley, and Annette Potena, all of Medway Massachusetts; also 2 nieces. Family will receive friends at St. John's University, 
 ROBINSON-Arthur, M.D., January 25, 1997 of Amityville, N.Y., formerly of Ozone Park, N.Y. Beloved husband of Gladys Robinson, devoted brother-in-law of Irene Robinson and Dorothy Stagg. Loving uncle of Barbara and Ronald Robinson, Joyce and Gerald Robinson, Elizabeth and Alan Shulman, Ruth 
 ROSENTHAL - Alexander E. Daughters of Miriam Center/The Gallen Institute notes with profound sorrow the passing of friend and benefactor Alexander E. Rosenthal on Tuesday, February 25. Recently named an honorary president, Alexander Rosenthal was involved with the center for half a century.
 SHANKER-Albert. The officers, members and staff of the Jewish Labor Committee mourn the death of Albert Shanker, President of the American Federation of Teachers, longtime activist in the free trade union movement nationally and in New York City. A dedicated leader of our organization, he s
 SPECTOR-Hyman. Fine artist. Survived by his wife, Shirley, daughters, Susan and Karen and grandsons, Jason and Nicholas. For information contact Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Route 4 E, Paramus, NJ.       
 STEINGLASS-Meyer. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Meyer Steinglass, National Publicity Director from the program's inception in 1951 until 1978. A master in the art of communications, he created a magnificent campaign that defined Israel's economy needs 
 STEWART-Edward Sheldon, age 91, died January 21 after a long illness. Survived by wife of 43 years, Shirley, sister, Beatrice (Babbie), children Helen, Sheldon (Shelley), Anthony (Tony) and Francesca (Francie), 7 grandchildren (Shellie, Scott, Sean, Michael, Jenny, Peter and Jaryn), 2 great
 STRAUS-Robert K. The Trustees and members of the Institute of General Semantics mourn the death of their former President and longtime supporter. His leadership was fundamental to the growth of the Institute. He will be sorely missed.       
 TEMEL-Max. The directors and staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York extend sincerest condolences to Board Member Charles Temel on the death of his beloved father. May Charles and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Philip Schatten, Pr
 VAN DYKE-Frank. The Board of Directors and staff of Citizens' Committee for Children of New York mourn the passing of former Board Member and member Frank Van Dyke. Mr. Van Dyke's dedication to children and the issues they face in NYC made him an especially valuable and impassioned advocate
 WEINBERG-Eugene ''Gene'' of Pipersville, PA formerly of New York, New York, died Sunday night after a protracted illness. He was 86. Beloved husband of Emmeline Epstein Weinberg. Father of Michael and the late Alex. Grandfather of Mia Weinberg Clinton and Michael Weinberg, Jr. Great-grandfa
 WEINRAUB-William C. L. Age 49, of Norcross, GA. Beloved husband of Anita Z. Devoted father of Stephanie and brother of Jerome. Graduate of Horace Mann School, Yale University, University of Massachusetts, he was an accomplished businessman, craftsman, musician, and raconteur. His passing le
 WYLER-Richard L., on February 26, 1997. Loving father of Lauren Wyler Smith and David Wyler. Devoted brother of Wendy Weinstein of Scottsdale, Arizona. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Thurs Feb 27th, 6:30PM-9PM with service Friday 11:30AM. Interment Sharon 
 Robert Kenneth Straus, a member of one of New York's leading merchant families who turned instead to government service, publishing and, most recently, founded a center for the support of analytical thought in decision-making, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. 
 Howard W. McCall Jr., a former president of Chemical Bank and its parent, the Chemical Banking Corporation, died at his home in Darien, Conn., on Monday after a long illness, said Kenneth Herz, a spokesman for his former employer. He was 89. Mr. McCall joined Chemical Bank as a note
 Nuccio Bertone, the automobile designer whose career producing some of the world's most exotic low-volume sports cars spanned more than 60 years and who brought forth models for such high-powered manufacturers as Ferrari and Lamborghini, and also for Volvo and General Motors, died on Wednes
 ALBEN-Miles H., 97, in Los Angeles where he lived for the past six years, now reunited with his wife of 68 years, Sylvia, who passed away in April of 1996. He will be remembered by son Russ of Los Angeles, daughter Rhoda Alben-Aronson of Riverdale, New York and five grandchildren: Seth Aron
 ARONOWITZ-Albert. The East 55th Street Conservative Synagogue sorrowfully records the loss of its esteemed and beloved congregant. Our deepest sympathy to his family. Reuven Siegel, Rabbi Daniel Hirtenstein, President Lawrence E. Levine, Chairman, Board of Trustees       
 BEER-Donald, of Princeton, New Jersey, on January 25, 1997. The many friends and neighbors of Donald Beer mourn the loss of an Olympic gold-medal winner in 1956 and carrier of the flame in 1996, ringer of the bells at Trinity Church, builder of model trains at Christmas, player of fiddles a
 BENJAMIN-W. Hoffman, 87, of Garrison, NY and NYC, in peace at home on February 20th. Devoted husband to Joan Ellett. Loving father to Beverley Goodwin, John Bigelow and Nathaniel Prime. Six grandchildren and five siblings and many others will miss his love and charity. Funeral services Satu
 BUNIN-Morey, Feb. 26, at home in Woodstock. Master puppeteer; creator of ''Foodini the Great''; inventor of Aniforms, a live cartoon process. His work is in the Museum of Radio and Television. He brought joy to millions, and was deeply loved and will be missed. Survived by his wife, Charlot
 COE-Jacques. The entire partnership of Cowen & Company mourns the passing of our longtime friend and eminent colleague, Jacques Coe, 103. Widely recognized as the oldest active broker on Wall Street, Jacques joined Cowen & Company in 1964 as a limited partner. He epitomized an exceptional s
 COHEN-Judah M.D. How it hurts to say ''Goodbye'' to our friend. ''Dr. Judah'' and his children will always be a part of our lives. Ari and Ruth Frommer       
 DEAN-Sidney W. Jr. The trustees and members of The City Club mourn the death of Sidney. He will be remembered as one of the Club's most outstanding trustees. During his nearly four decades of service, Sidyey served as both President and Chair. We will miss him. The Board of Trustees The Cit
 DROOZ-Richard, M.D. Passed on Friday, January 24th. Survived by his beloved wife, Miriam. Dr. Drooz, psychoanalyst and psychiatrist, will be remembered for his brilliance as an academician, clinician, teacher, mentor, and for his kind, generous spirit. He will be greatly missed. Neither he 
 DVORTZOFF-Dorothy Kaufman. Wife of the late Harry. Sister of Ruth Kaufman Berthold and sister-in-law of Arthur J. Berthold. Sister of the late Ethel G. Kaufman and Robert L. Kaufman. Aunt of David A. Berthold and his wife Nancy, and great-aunt of David, Anna, Michael and Madiline Berthold o
 FRANK-Solomon. Died peacefully in his 86th year. Beloved husband of Mildred Kreeger Frank. Devoted father of Ellen Frank and Jerome Mathews. Mourned greatly by brother Charles, sister Sofia Berger, nieces and nephews Ruth, Janet, Barbara, Harold, Elizabeth, Toby. Nathan and Doris Kreeger   
 HEYER-Paul. Architect (AIA, RIBA); former President of The New York School of Interior Design, New York; Dean Emeritus and holder of the first endowed chair in architecture at that school; former Dean of the School of Architecture at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York; teacher, lecturer,
 KIRKWOOD-William C. The Board of trustees, medical board, administrative staff and employees of New York Methodist Hospital mourn the loss of our beloved vice chairman and treasurer, William C. Kirkwood. A member of the board since 1978, Bill's association with the Hospital actually dated b
 MARKS-Gerald, January 27, 1997. The Board of Directors of the New York Sheet Music Society mourns the loss of our gentle, devoted member. Gerald, one of the last Tin Pan Alley giants, composer of ''All of Me,'' ''Is It True What They Say About Dixie,'' and 400 other songs will be missed, ad
 NEW-Sidney, Jr. In his 93rd year. Dear uncle, great uncle and greatgreat uncle to Andrews, Eldridges, Kotzens, Paxtons and Spokes. Devoted friend of many. Interment private. In lieu of flowers a donation to a charity of your choice would be appreciated.       
 PITTARI-Anthony, on January 25, 1997. Beloved son of Bartolo and the late Anna. Loving brother of Edward and Nancy Gaudioso, and devoted uncle of five. Companion of Erich Hamner. Reposing at Denis S. O'Connor Funeral Home, 91-05 Beach Channel Drive, Rockaway Beach, New York. Mass of Christi
 RANDELMAN-Milton. Roz, we share your loss, and will always admire your devotion to Milton and your resolve to help him live fully every moment that he was given. Sylvia and Lewis Lubitz       
 RIVARD-Rev. Robert J. The Vincentian Community announces the death of Father Rivard, C.M. on February 25, 1997. Survived by his loving sisters, Rita Flood, Beatrice Kelley, and Annette Potena, all of Medway Massachusetts; also 2 nieces. Family will receive friends at St. John's University, 
 ROSSETTI-Roy, 64, passed away on February 26, 1997. Born in New York to a family coming from Siena, Italy, Mr. Roy Rossetti served as Executive Secretary of the Italy America Chamber of Commerce for twelve years, until 1995, working with six different presidents, thus becoming a focal point
 SEGGERMAN-Kenneth M. Jr, in New York City on Feb. 27. Son of the late Kenneth M. and Sarah G.A. Seggerman. Survived by his children Kenneth, Tobias, Sarah and Victoria, 3 granddaughters & his brothers Harry and Frederick. Funeral service will be held at St. James' Episcopal Church, 865 Madi
 SHANKER-Albert. The officers and members of the United Federation of Teachers mourn the loss of the revered and beloved leader & early organizer of their union, Albert Shanker, 68, Feb. 22. An indefatigable fighter for the dignity of all of us who teach children, he inspired us to the cause
 SLIGH-Charles R., Jr. The Directors and Staff of the Deafness Research Foundation note with sorrow the passing on January 25th in Delray Beach, Fl, of its former Chairman, benefactor and loyal friend. Mr. Sligh was former Chairman of the Sligh Furniture Co. of Grand Rapids, MI and former Pr
 SPENCE-Mark E. January 23, 1997. Services were private, but his family will be accepting visitors at his apartment on February 1 from 1-4 P.M.       
 TEMEL-Max. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed board member, Charles Temel on the passing of his father. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin S. Begun, President Michael S. Miller, Ex
 TOWNES-David C., age 74, on January 17 from complications from kidney failure. For over 35 years, he was a foreign tour guide, much in demand because of his proficiency in eleven languages. David's love and devotion to his friends especially those in recovery programs, will always be treasu
 WYLER-Richard L., on February 26, 1997. Loving father of Lauren Wyler Smith and David Wyler. Devoted brother of Wendy Weinstein of Scottsdale, Arizona. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Thurs Feb 27th, 6:30PM-9PM with service Friday 11:30AM. Interment Sharon 
