 Henry Racamier, who married a descendant of Louis Vuitton and built a family-owned leather goods company into one of the world's largest luxury goods groups, died on Saturday while traveling in Sardinia. He was 90. The cause was a heart attack, according to the Opéra National de Pa
 J. Hugh Liedtke, the longtime head of the Pennzoil Company who began his career by drilling scores of consecutive successful oil wells with his partner, George H. W. Bush, and went on to win billions of dollars from Texaco in a dramatic legal battle, died on Friday in Houston. He was 81.   
 Daniel Patrick Moynihan, naval gunnery officer and four-term United States senator, was buried today at Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors. The graveside ceremony followed a funeral mass at St. Patrick's Church, the oldest Roman Catholic church in Washington and t
 BERLIN-David Sanders, 80. Died March 12 on Cape Cod. He is survived by his wife Gloria, six children and four grandchildren. Mr. Berlin was a graduate of NYU and a respected educator in the New York City school system for forty years. He retired in 1989. He is missed.       
 COHEN-Jules, 88. Died peacefully at home Monday morning while getting ready to go to the office. Beloved husband for over sixty years of the late Phyllis Cohen. Devoted and proud father of Alan Cohen and Ronnie Lane. Cherished father-in-law of William Lane. Loving, supportive and proud gran
 COLLAND-Joe R., 82. On March 28, 2003, in San Francisco, CA. Preceded in death by his first wife of 24 years, Susie Colland, and his second wife of 36 years, Melitta Colland, daughter, Joan CollandCarlson. Survived by his son, Obo Help, his son's partner, Jane Logan, both of San Francisco, 
 GREENBERG-Rabbi Sidney. Died March 31, 2003, age 85. Gentle dedicated servant of God who embraced all that was Jewish and life-affirming. Founding Rabbi of Temple Sinai, Philadelphia, where he served for 53 years. ''A Rabbi's Rabbi'' and outstanding preacher. His legacy of sermonic gems fil
 HALPERN-Harry A., 91, cherished husband for 66 years and very best friend of Sylvia (Nee Stillman), loving and caring father of Joel A. Halpern, deceased, and Linda Lesser (Warren). Adored grandfather of Jon Halpern (Kerri), Julie Cook (Jim), Beth Lipman (Larry), Jason Halpern (Katelyn) and
 LEVINE - Julius. Mannes mourns the passing of Julius Levine, beloved bassist, teacher, coach, and colleague to generations of musicians. His inspiration will continue to guide us. Joel Lester, Dean Mannes College of Music John Beerbower, Chair Mannes Board of Governors       
 OGDEN - Alfred, 93. On March 21, 2003 in New York City. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., on October 14th, 1909. He is survived by his loving son, Alfred T. Ogden II, grandchildren Alix R. Ogden (Matthews), Alfred T. Ogden III, M.D. and Mary Fell P. Ogden and great grandchildren Katherine S. Matthews
 POLEVOY-Louis. Of Aventura, FL formerly of Verona, NJ, on Sunday March 30, 2003. He was a Founder of Pathmark Supermarkets. Survived by his beloved wife Beatrice, loving children Ira and his wife Phyllis, Steven, and Stuart and his wife Gina, cherished by nine grandchildren and ten great-gr
 George Connor, one of college football's best linemen ever and then one of the best linebackers ever in professional football, died Monday at a hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 78. Connor played two years at Holy Cross, then spent two years in the Navy and played the next two years
 Harry Ellis Dickson, an old-school musician and personality who was a first violinist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra for five decades and a conductor of the Boston Pops for nearly as long, died on Saturday after a brief illness. He was 94. A witty raconteur, Mr. Dickson served for
 Michael Jeter, a Tony and Emmy Award-winning actor who played nebbishy characters with a Chaplinesque flair, was found dead on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 50. The cause of death was unknown, said his publicist, Dick Guttman. Mr. Jeter had H.I.V., but was said to be in good health 
 AEZEN - Joseph, passed away at his home on Sunday, March 23, 2003. He is survived by his friend of 20 years, Elaine Rosomoff; the mother of his children, Mollie Aezen, daughter Samantha Harris Aezen and son Peter Michael Aezen. He was delighted to learn from his friend Elaine Rosomoff that 
 ESTERCES-Michael. March 31, 2003, in Los Angeles, devoted father of Elizabeth and Debra; his beloved sister, Judith Handsman, nephews, their wives, and his grand nieces. Although his first career was in advertising, his true love was his mini ventures as a sea captain. Graveside services Ap
 GHENT - Emmanuel, M.D. The Postdoctoral Program notes with profound sorrow the death of Emmanuel Ghent, M.D. He was a gifted, innovative clinician, theoretician, and teacher, central to the Program's activities since its inception, and founder of the Relational Orientation. We will miss his
 HALPERN-Harry A., 91, cherished husband for 66 years and very best friend of Sylvia (Nee Stillman), loving and caring father of Joel A. Halpern, deceased, and Linda Lesser (Warren). Adored grandfather of Jon Halpern (Kerri), Julie Cook (Jim), Beth Lipman (Larry), Jason Halpern (Katelyn) and
 HARRIS-Bert. Survived by his loving wife and life companion, Mildred, three sons, Leigh, Robert and Brian, and daughters-in-law, Melody and Lisa, and beautiful grandchildren Betsy, Mordechai, Emily and Jenifer.       
 HORNSTEIN-S. Lawrence. Beloved husband of Francine. Devoted father of Meryl and Mark Nachbar, and David and Nancy Hornstein. Loving brother-in-law of Phyllis Feinstein, cherished uncle of Stuart and Margaret Feinstein, Steven and Yvonne Feinstein. Adored great uncle of Mary, David, Andrew, 
 KELLY-Patrick Joseph, II, March 28, 2003. Survived by his wife, Kari and son Patrick Joseph Kelly III. Memorial service Saturday April 5, 10AM at St. Jean Baptiste, 184 East 76th St., NY, NY. Donations to Patrick Joseph Kelly II Memorial Fund. C/O Rick Richmond, Queen Charlotte Sq., 214 E. 
 LINDE-Alan. The beloved husband of Rosalyn. Dear father of Stephen and Gregg. Loving father-in-law of Carol and Nancy. Dear brother of Dorothy Schmidt. Loving grandfather of Jessica, Michael, Brian and Lisa. Funeral services Thursday, April 3, 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Ams
 MEZEY-Frederick Charles. 69, of Edwards, CO. Devoted and loving husband of Nancy, father of Stephanie, Jennifer, Barnet, Todd, Scott and Caroline. Long time resident of Princeton, NJ. Practiced law over 40 years. Pioneered affordable housing and made significant contributions in the field o
 RACAMIER - Henry. We deeply mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague, Henry Racamier. A leader in the arts and business, he was the best possible European as a founder and member of the Board of The New York International Festival of the Arts. To his wife, Odile, and children and fa
 WHITNEY - Robert Avery. Died March 30, 2003 in Corte Madera, CA. Born in Buffalo, NY, 1912, he resided in West Orange, NJ, New York and London. Management consultant to 300 firms, publisher and author of The Instant Manager. Founder and director of the 1st Int'l Distribution Congress in Mil
 Walter Decoster Dennis, a retired suffragan bishop for the Episcopal Diocese of New York, as well as a lawyer and a civil rights advocate, died on Sunday in Hampton, Va. He was 70. The cause was an embolism, the diocese announced. When elected suffragan bishop, or principal 
 DENNIS-Walter Decoster. The Rt. Rev. Mark S. Sisk, Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York, joins all the Bishops, the Dean, clergy and people of the Diocese in mourning the death of our beloved Retired Bishop Suffragan Walter Decoster Dennis. We will miss his guidance, pastoral counsel
 FIRSHEIN-Michael. Beloved husband of Sylvia for 56 years. Extraordinary and loving father of Dr. Steven, Dr. Dan (Joy) and Dr. Richard. Dear grandfather to Dylan, Brittnay, Meredith, Jessica, Shannon and Jenna. All who knew him were inspired by his strength and kindness. He was devoted to m
 GOLDBERG - Arthur, 74, passed away peacefully on April 2, 2003, in the comfort of his home in Monroe Township, N.J. A proud & devoted husband, father and grandfather, Arthur is survived by Helen, his loving wife of 44 years. He will be dearly missed by his loving children Lynne & her husban
 GREENE-Dr. Alan Steven, 73. Loving husband of Joyce (Rosenthal). Devoted father of Sanford and Marie-France (Cyr); Roger; David and Jodi (Radzley). Proudest Grandfather of Samuel, Ella and Jake. Son of the late Herman and Jean. Founding partner of Froelich Greene, NYC. Earning his PhD from 
 HORNSTEIN-S. Lawrence. Beloved husband of Francine. Devoted father of Meryl and Mark Nachbar, and David and Nancy Hornstein. Loving brother-in-law of Phyllis Feinstein, cherished uncle of Stuart and Margaret Feinstein, Steven and Yvonne Feinstein. Adored great uncle of Mary, David, Andrew, 
 KRAMER-Stephen A. The extended family of friends, supporters and dependents of Colel Chabad - Lubavitch mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and longtime supporter, Steve (Shlomo Aaron) Kramer, a dynamic leader who embraced the spectrum of worthy Jewish causes including many Chabad
 LERMAN-Arnold J., 78. Beloved father of Abby and Albert Hochhauser, Peter and Marty Lerman, Esther and Norman Freeman, and Lorraine Rose-Lerman and Brad Rose. Beloved grandfather of eight and great-grandfather. Dear friend of former wife, Barbara (Diamond) Ritter. Died April 1, surrounded b
 ONORATO-Benjamin F., 75. Of Scarsdale, NY, passed away on March 31, 2003. He is survived by four children and twelve grandchildren. Calling hours Thursday, April 3rd, 24PM and 7-9PM at Bennett Funeral Home, Scarsdale. Mass at Immaculate Heart of Mary Church, Scarsdale, April 4th at 10:45 AM
 RHODES-Cecil. April 2, 2003. Cherished husband of Betty. Loving father of Dion and Lisa O'Brien, and father in law of Patrick O'Brien. Adoring Papa of Julia and Dylan. Dear brother of Gloria Shuh. After graduating Brown, he earned a law and business degree from Harvard and served in the Nav
 WENGER-Seymour B. The Trustees, medical and dental staff and employees of Monmouth Medical Center and Monmouth Health Care Foundation mourn the passing of trustee and special benefactor Seymour B. Wenger and extend their deepest sympathy to his family.       
 WEXLER-Sylvia. The Members and entire personnel of Herzfeld & Rubin, P.C. express our heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Partner, Howard Wexler, his brother Gary and sister Linsey Miller, on the passing of their beloved mother on March 28. Herbert Rubin Herzfeld & Rubin, P.C.       
 Lucian Adams, an Army sergeant in World War II who received the Medal of Honor for a single-handed assault on German troops that opened supply lines for an isolated American battalion, died on Monday in San Antonio. He was 80. Mr. Adams had been in poor health, but the cause of deat
 Michael Wayne, the eldest son of the actor John Wayne and the producer of many of his father's films, died on Wednesday in Burbank, Calif. He was 68. The cause was heart failure after complications from lupus, said his publicist, Warren Cowan. Beginning with ''The Alamo'' in
 GREENBERG-Rabbi Sidney. Temple Sinai (Dresher, PA) mourns the passing of Dr. Sidney Greenberg, our beloved Rabbi Emeritus, who guided us for 53 years. His tender loving kindness and polished delivery from the pulpit are legendary. His accomplishments assure a legacy that will endure for gen
 KALMUS-Geoffrey M. Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP regrets the death of one of our firm's founding partners, Geoffrey M. Kalmus, who died last night at home in Albuquerque, NM. From the time our firm was formed in 1968 to the day he retired in 1993, Geoff was our natural leader and ever
 KRAMER-Stephen A. The Board of Directors and staff of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Stephen A. Kramer, our former President and Chairman. Stephen nurtured our agency with his honesty, judgment, love and unfailing support. In doing so, he touch
 TANENBAUM-Robert M. On March 22, 2003. A memorial service will be held Monday, April 7, 2003, 4 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, New York City. At his request, a reception in honor of his life will be held at his home immediately following the service.       
 YORK-Richard T., 52, of New York, died on April 2, 2003. He was President and Founder of The Richard York Gallery in New York. He was a member of the Art Dealers Association of America (serving for 3 years as vice president), and a William Cullen Bryant Fellow with the Metropolitan Museum o
 M. Anthony Fisher, a senior partner at Fisher Brothers, one of the most prominent real estate firms in the city, died yesterday in a plane crash in Massachusetts that killed six of the seven people on board. He was 52. His wife, Anne Fisher, 41, the pilot and the copilot were also k
 Michael Kelly, former editor and then editor at large for The Atlantic Monthly and a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post, was killed in Iraq yesterday when the military vehicle in which he was riding ran off a road and into a canal south of Baghdad. He was 46. Mr. Kelly had
 BECKER-Godfrey. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved longtime member Godfrey Becker. He is a Bar Mitzvah and Confirmant of Rodeph Sholom as well as part of a third generation family. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife Minna, his daughter and our beloved sexto
 FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Board of Trustees of the Intrepid Museum Foundation mourns our Chairman and CEO, M. Anthony Fisher, and his wife Anne. Mr. Fisher was our leader and our inspiration, and dedicated himself wholeheartedly to the mission of Intrepid, and to serving the men and w
 KRAMER-Stephen A. We are saddened and shocked by the tragic news. Steve was our loved friend and appreciated advisor for over 30 years. The entire community will very much miss his cheerful smile, great enthusiasm, and energetic support of worthy charities. We send our sincere sympathy to D
 YALOWITZ-Arthur. On April 4th, 2003. Loving father of Lee and Angelica and Eve and Sean. Dear brother of Vic and Sandy. He will be deeply missed. Service Sunday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 YORK-Richard T. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague, a former officer and director. One of the most important dealers in American art, he was admired and respected for his knowledge, his taste, and for his high standards. He was a gentl
 M. Anthony Fisher, a senior partner at Fisher Brothers, one of the most prominent real estate firms in New York City, died Friday in a plane crash in Massachusetts that killed six of the seven people on board. He was 52. His wife, Anne Fisher, 41, the pilot and the copilot were also
 Julius Levine, whose performances on the double bass provided a solid underpinning to several classic recordings of Schubert's ''Trout'' Quintet, and who was renowned as a teacher and chamber music coach, died on Friday at Amsterdam House, a health-care residence in Manhattan. He was 81.   
 BETTINGER-Abe. On April 4, 2003. Beloved husband of Carol. Loving father of Paul and Marc. Adoring grandfather (Pepa) of Joshua, Ethan, Tami, Jamie, Allie and Jeffrey. He will be profoundly missed by his family and friends. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterd
 BOGAN-Carl. Our beloved, age 89, died on March 29, 2003. He is survived in marriage to the late Mary Fox by son Robert Bogan, daughter Andrea Haber, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren. He is survived in his second marriage by wife Mary Moss, her eight children and fifteen grandc
 CAMPANELLI-Michael. We express our heartfelt condolences to Michael's family and loved ones. His sweet smile, his kindness and his talent will be deeply missed. Danielle and David Ganek       
 DEAN-Jesse W., 89. Died April 3, 2003, after a long debilitating illness. Adored and beloved husband of Diana and father of Elizabeth (Leesa). A designer, inventor, and former chief copy editor of Women's Wear Daily, as well as other Fairchild publications for 35 years. He was the inventor 
 FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. What was once a large, energetic and vibrant young family, is now diminished by an accident that killed Anne and Tony. We, Tony's brother and sister, are struggling to understand and accept our loss. Our heart goes out to Miasha, Tora, William, Cole and Noah. We 
 GHENT - Emmanuel. On March 31, 2003 at age 77. Survived by wife Karen, sister Frances Smofsky, daughters Nadia, Valerie and Theresa, grandchildren Alex, Sara and Grady, and a large extended family. He taught at the Postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis at NYU and was in a
 GREENFIELD-Sydney. On April 1, 2003, in Jersey City, at the age of 87. Longtime Professor of Botany at Rutgers University, Newark, where he taught for more than 55 years. Founder of Rutgers' Department of Botany and a major influence on the development of the Newark campus. Founder of the P
 HITCHINGS-George P., 86. Of Darien, CT. on April 1, 2003. Husband of Pauline D. Hitchings, father of Marion Mantai and Diane Hitchings. Grandfather of two and great grandfather of three. Predeceased by one daughter, Nancy J. Hitchings. Mr. Hitchings worked for the following companies: MacKa
 ISACS-Herman H. III, age 75, husband of Edna Flicker Isacs, of Fairfield, CT. died April 2, 2003. He was the Ret. President of Herman Isacs Inc., of Bridgeport, CT. Funeral services were held on Saturday in Connecticut. For more information, visit www.leskofuneralhome.com       
 KELLY-Michael. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Society of Magazine Editors are deeply saddened by the untimely and tragic death of editor and columnist, Michael Kelly. He was one of journalism's greatest, and his friends and colleagues will remember him fondly. We extend ou
 PENN-Matthew. The Jewish Communal Service Association sadly notes the passing of Matthew Penn, Executive Director Emeritus. Matt provided professional leadership from 1969 to 1982 with boundless energy, excellence and caring. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his entire family. Audrey S
 SITAR-Kerridi, 63, passed away unexpectedly on March 30th, 2003. Extraordinary man, loving grandfather, father and friend. All who knew him were inspired by his kindness and devotion. He will be deeply missed.       
 YALOWITZ-Arthur. On April 4th, 2003. Loving father of Lee and Angelica and Eve and Sean. Dear brother of Vic and Sandy. He will be deeply missed. Service Sunday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SHEDLIN-Allan. Remembering with love our beloved grandfather and great-grandfather on the first anniversary of his passing. Samantha, Jeffrey, Casey, Jesse, Christina, Matt, Ben, Sam, Raya and Steve       
 TANENBAUM-Robert M. On March 22, 2003. A memorial service will be held Monday, April 7, 2003, 4 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, New York City. At his request, a reception in honor of his life will be held at his home immediately following the service.       
 Philip Yordan, an Oscar-winning writer, died on March 24 in San Diego, his family said. He was 88. Although he was most active in movies, Mr. Yordan's breakthrough came on Broadway in the 1940's with his play ''Anna Lucasta.'' It was the first Broadway production to feature 
 David Bloom, the co-anchor of the weekend edition of NBC's ''Today'' show, collapsed yesterday and died while covering the war in Iraq for the network. He was 39. NBC said yesterday that the cause was apparently a blood clot, and that the death was not combat-related. Mr. Bl
 Dr. Frederic Lawrence Holmes, a leading authority on the history of medicine and science who wrote detailed accounts of the creative processes behind landmark scientific discoveries, died on March 27 in New Haven. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said Dr. John Warner, a colleague at
 Dr. Harold Scott MacDonald Coxeter, a mathematician who was hailed as one of the foremost geometricians of his generation and whose ideas inspired the drawings of M. C. Escher and influenced the architecture of R. Buckminster Fuller, died on March 31 in his home in Toronto. He was 96.      
 DULIS-Edward John. 83, of Upper St. Clair, on April 4, 2003, at Allegheny General Hospital. A noted research metallurgical engineer, he held many patents and prestigious awards, including AMA's Albert Sauveur Achievement Award. Mr. Dulis had a 39-year career in research, from the Philadelph
 GOLBE-Alvin. After 78 years as musician, impressario, art lover, lecturer, craftsman and merchandising executive. His wife Cynthia, sons Larry and Michael, daughterin-law Devra, grandchildren Jon and Susan, sister Muncie Hendler, in-laws Karen and Paul Guinzburg, had a long list of those wh
 NASSER-Ezra H. On April 5, 2003. Founder of Merchants Corporation of America 1949. Born Aleppo, Syria. Husband of Evelyn. Father of Ronald, Andre and Merry. Grandfather of Chris, Julia and Michael. Brother of Fortune, Joseph, Margo, Moussa, Odette and Albert. Loved by all who knew him. Serv
 TANENBAUM-Robert M. On March 22, 2003. A memorial service will be held Monday, April 7, 2003, 4 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, New York City. At his request, a reception in honor of his life will be held at his home immediately following the service.       
 Richard T. York, a dealer in American art who was president and founder of the Richard York Gallery in Manhattan, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was cancer, his gallery announced. He opened his gallery at 21 East 65th Street in 1981 and concentrated on 
 Emanuel Tobier, a New York economist and urban planner who was an outspoken authority on the metropolitan area's vital signs, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 73 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Dr. Tobier 
 Leon Levy, a hedge fund pioneer who began investing at 13 with $200 and went on to make many millions, enough to make him one of the main individual backers of archaeological research, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, Shelby White, hi
 ABELOW-Dr. Irving. He was beloved by all who knew himwife, sons, brothers, sisters, nieces and nephews, cousins, friends, and his thousands of patients. He leaves behind his loved and loving wife Phoebe and sons Adam Harris and Benjamin Jac. Services today, 10:30 AM at Temple Beth El, Old M
 BLOOM-David. The Convent of the Sacred Heart, Greenwich, mourns the loss of our devoted parent David Bloom. David was an inspiration and enthusiastic member of our community. Sympathy is extended to David's wife Melanie, and daughters Ava, Christine and Nicole. Our lives at Sacred Heart wer
 COHEN-Solomon. On April 5, 2003. Loving brother, husband, father and grandfather. His career in medicine, as an oncologist, span 40 years at Montefiore and Our Lady of Mercy Hospitals and in a devoted practice in the Bronx. He gave comfort and peace to his many patients and touched the live
 COWAN-Garth. On April 4th, 2003. Beloved longtime companion of 36 years of Joseph Maio. Mourned by his many nieces, nephews and friends who will always miss his many kindnesses and humor. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 de BRUNHOFF-Cecile. The Staff of Harry N. Abrams, Publishers sends its love and sympathy to Laurent de Brunhoff and his family at the passing of his mother, Cecile de Brunhoff, wife of Jean de Brunhoff. In 1930, Cecile de Brunhoff first told the story of an elephant that inspired the Babar 
 GOLBE-Alvin. After 78 years as musician, impressario, art lover, lecturer, craftsman & merchandising executive. His wife Cynthia, sons Larry and Michael, daughter - in - law Devra, grandchildren Jon and Susan, sister Muncie Hendler, in-laws Karen and Paul Guinzburg, head a long list of thos
 HERSCHMAN - David Wil liam, born NYC, January 6, 1968, passed away peacefully, April 3, 2003 in San Francisco after a fierce struggle with melanoma. A UC Berkeley graduate, he traveled extensively and excelled as an athlete. A successful entrepreneur, by 1999 he created the world's leading 
 JONES-Jere. We celebrate the life of Jere Jones-an adoring husband, father, grandpa, friend, mentor, and passionate professor - a maverick and an original. Jere loved to dream, lived to think, and changed the world around him. A memorial service will be announced. The Family JONES-J
 LEVY-Leon. On April 6, 2003 at age 77. Beloved husband of Shelby White. Father of Tracy Ann White. Brother of S. Jay Levy of Somers, NY. Services at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87th Street at Madison Avenue, Wednesday, April 9th, 9:30AM. Contributions may be made to The Institute for Advan
 LOHN-Jerome M. Born May 30, 1950 in Lakewood, OH, currently of New York, NY died on Friday after a brief illness. He was 52 years of age. Jerry was a Vice President and credit specialist in the Investment Banking Division at JP Morgan Chase & Co. Jerry is survived by his much adored wife, J
 NASSER - Ezra. Profound sympathies to the extended Nasser family. Ezra was a respected friend, mentor and beautiful human being. His warmth, humor and unique joie de vivre were a joy to all. J. Howard Johnson and Family       
 TOBIER-Emanuel. The NYU Wagner community mourns the passing of Emanuel Tobier, Professor Emeritus of Economics & Planning. For over 30 years, Manny demonstrated his commitment to the school and the university through his dedication to teaching, passion for research and service to the city. 
 YORK-Richard T. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and friend, Richard T. York, and send condolences to his family.       
 ROSEN-Shelly. April 8th, 1951-May 27th, 2000. When you died, family and friends lost the soft-spoken gentle man who listened without judgment and shared his boundless love. You overcame the hate and loss of love from your family to create a loving family with me. We had a love and commitmen
 Babatunde Olatunji, the Nigerian drummer, bandleader and teacher who was a tireless ambassador for African music and culture in the United States, died on Sunday in Salinas, Calif. He was 76 and lived at the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, Calif. The cause was complications of advanced
 CHARNEY-Sara. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a widely respected matriarch who was an active Jewish leader in Teaneck, NJ and in recent years in Ranaana, Israel, the beloved mother of YU Guardian Leon H. (and Tzili) Charney and Byrna Blumenreich, and a cherished grandmot
 COHEN-Solomon. On April 5, 2003. Loving brother, husband, father and grandfather. His career in medicine, as an oncologist, span 40 years at Montefiore and Our Lady of Mercy Hospitals and in a devoted practice in the Bronx. He gave comfort and peace to his many patients and touched the live
 CORNELL-George D. Cornell University mourns the passing of George Cornell, a man who claims a solid place in the history of the University and in the hearts of many alumni, friends, and staff members. A distant cousin of the University's founder, George shared Ezra Cornell's commitment to e
 FINLAYSON-John Lathrop. Of Greenwich, CT, on April 7, 2003, at Kings Street Nursing Home. Born in Milwaukee in 1928, he was a graduate of The University of Illinois, and The Wharton School of Business. Mr. Finlayson served in The U.S. Army Corp of Engineers in Korea during that conflict. He
 FOX-Emanuel H. On April 7. Resident of Bayswater, Far Rockaway. Services Thursday, April 10, 10A.M., Forest Park Chapel, Queens Blvd and 76th Rd, Forest Hills, NY. FOX-Emanuel. Our warmest sympathy to his wife Marcia; children Jonathan, Rebecca and Eban; daughters-in-law and grandch
 GOLDSTEIN-David. 42, of North Arlington, NJ, formerly of Hillsdale, NJ. Survived by his wife Catherine, stepchildren Kathleen, Raymond and Sean, parents Phyllis and Stanley, brother of Andrea, Daniel and Jeffrey. Services today, 12 noon, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W150 Rt. 4 East, P
 HAESEKER-Donald H. Age 81, of Glen Allen, Virginia, died Sunday, April 6, 2003. He was retired from Chubb & Son Insurance Company after 45 years in the Surety Department. Survivors include his wife, Beryl Barbuti Haeseker; daughter, Jane H. Sketchley and her husband, Garsed; son, Thomas P. 
 KUBIE-John S. Of Purchase, NY died Monday, April 7 of complications from surgery. He was the former president and CEO of Seligman and Latz, Inc., a chain of beauty salons in fine department stores. Mr. Kubie was very active in the alumni affairs of Phillips Academy at Andover and Yale Unive
 LEVY-Leon. On April 6, 2003 at age 77. Beloved husband of Shelby White. Father of Tracy Ann White. Brother of S. Jay Levy of Somers, NY. Services at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87th Street at Madison Avenue, Wednesday, April 9th, 9:30AM. Contributions may be made to The Institute for Advan
 MOKOTOFF-Harold S. Of Sagaponack, on Monday, April 7, 2003, at age 92. Loving father to Peter Mokotoff (deceased at age 10), Steffi Berne and Moke Mokotoff. Loving and devoted husband to Rhoda, who passed away in 1997, and ever-encouraging grandfather to Lizzie Berne, Alexander Berne and So
 ORTON-George Washington III. On April 6, 2003, our ''Jak'' passed away of a sudden heart attack at age 80. Beloved father of Onyx Orton Lifflander and her mentor and partner in Orton and Orton Interiors, husband of the late Marney Ragan, father-inlaw of Matthew. Good friend, advisor, sponso
 SKLUTH-L. Herbert, M.D. On April 8, 2003 of Norwalk, CT in his 90th year. Beloved husband of Emelie (nee Marcus), devoted father of Myra L. Skluth, M.D., of Norwalk, CT and Barbara S. Hale of NYC. Beloved brother of Elliott J. Skluth of Rye Brook, NY and the late Judith Skluth Weinberg. Che
 STEIN - Jacob (Jack) of Brooklyn, NY died Tuesday, April 8 at the age of 90. Jack was a Navy Veteran of WWII, retired attorney, former secretary of Manhattan Beach Jewish Center, past commander and associate chairman for senior citizens of the Jewish War Veterans. He is survived by his lovi
 Samuel N. Antupit, art director for more than 100 magazines and newspapers and the designer of books by artists like Roy Lichtenstein, Alex Katz and Barbara Kruger, died on Saturday in Seattle. He was 71. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Rosalie Littman, who is known as R
 James D. Finley, a textile executive who led the giant J. P. Stevens & Company for 14 years, steering it through some of the industry's most intense labor disputes, died on Saturday in Gulfstream, Fla. He was 86. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Nancy, said. Mr. Finle
 DEMBER-Jules J. Of Massapequa and Amityville. Devoted husband of the late, Muriel ''Mimi''. Loving father of Stuart, Anne Ryan, John and Allyne, Peggy and Gary Zucker, Larry and Jennifer. Cherished grandfather of Robert, Philip, Ian, Jasmine, Rebecca, Ryan and Liam. Adored brother of Phylli
 DREIZEN-Dr. David. Newmark and its partners would like to express their condolences to Michael Dreizen and his family for the loss of Dr. David Dreizen, father and grandfather. Our prayers and sympathy are with you in this time of need. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. DREIZEN-Dr
 GALANTER-Wynne L. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine and the Department of Psychiatry extend our heartfelt condolences to our friend and colleague, Mark Galanter, M.D., on the death of his wife, Wynne Galanter, Ph.D. Since 1985 the late Dr. Galanter was a Clinical Instructor of
 GARRETT-Dolan Leander, 51, of White Plains, NY, died Monday, April 7th as a result of a car accident. He is survived by his wife Claire Armanini Garrett and two children, Nicole (13) and Kevin (11). Visiting hours will be Thursday 5-9 PM at the McMahon, Lyon & Hartnett Funeral Home, 491 Mam
 GRAY-David G. Passed away peacefully on April 9, 2003. He was a retired partner of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett. A kind and generous soul survived by his wife, Diane; son Neil; brother Larry and many nieces and nephews. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Mary Manning-Walsh Home, 13
 LEVY-Leon. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Leon Levy, a 1948 alumnus, and one of New York's most respected investors and philanthropists. Mr. Levy was a firm friend of City College and a generous supporter of education. He will be sorely missed. On behalf of City College'
 MOKOTOFF-Harold S. Of Sagaponack, NY died April 7, 2003 at age 92. A member of the NYS Bar for over half a century, he was respected in his profession and adored by his family. His wife of 63 years, Rhoda Becher Mokotoff died in 1997. He leaves his children, Steffi and Robert Berne, and Mok
 ROSENTHAL - Franz. The American Academy For Jewish Research expresses its profound sorrow over the death of its distinguished Fellow, Professor Franz Rosenthal, of Yale University. Prof. Rosenthal not only made an enormous contribution to the study of Islam, but simultaneously pursued inter
 SCIARRA-Daniel, M.D. The faculty, staff, and students of Columbia University Health Sciences and the NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of an esteemed colleague, mentor, and friend, Dr. Daniel Sciarra. An invaluable member of the Columbia Presbyterian community since 1948, Dr. Scia
 SKLUTH-L. Herbert, M.D. On April 8, 2003 of Norwalk, CT in his 90th year. Beloved husband of Emelie (nee Marcus), devoted father of Myra L. Skluth, M.D., of Norwalk, CT and Barbara S. Hale of NYC. Beloved brother of Elliott J. Skluth of Rye Brook, NY and the late Judith Skluth Weinberg. Che
 STEIN - Jacob (Jack) of Brooklyn, NY died Tuesday, April 8 at the age of 90. Jack was a Navy Veteran of WWII, retired attorney, former secretary of Manhattan Beach Jewish Center, past commander and associate chairman for senior citizens of the Jewish War Veterans. He is survived by his lovi
 STEINBERGER-Dr. Bernard. Steinberger, Bernard, MD. OB/GYN, DOG, FACS, ACOG, AMA, 78, of Highland Beach, FL, passed away on April 8, 2003. Best friend and most deeply beloved husband of Sandy Berkowitz - Steinber ger. Devoted father to Dr. Robert, Carl, Joshua and Paul. Grandfather of Michel
 WOLLENBERGER - Gerard, 71, on April 8, 2003, after a sudden short illness. Distinguished member of the New York bar for more than four decades. Survived by his brother, Lutz Wollenberger, his sister-in-law, Eva Wollenberger, his nephew, Neal Wollenberger (Ruby) and his nieces, Tina Wollenbe
 YANNOPOULOS - Konstanti nos Dino on April 6, 2003, of Philadelphia. Loving husband of Marguerite (nee Willauer). Father of Sotorius Yannopoulos and Elsa Spaulding. Grandfather of Lucas and Christine Spaulding. Great grandfather of Elsa and Pablo Spaulding. Son of the late Admiral S. Yannopo
 Robin W. Winks, a Yale scholar who combined a love of British imperial history with enthusiasm for open spaces and a consuming interest in international espionage and detective fiction, died on Monday in New Haven. He was 72. The cause was complications after a stroke, his wife, Avr
 Ambaji Shinde, who brought design sensibilities honed under the maharajahs to the grandeur of the pieces he created as the principal designer at the New York jeweler Harry Winston, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 85. Until two years ago, Mr. Shinde, who set jewels for Indian ma
 Jean-Pierre Moueix, a Bordeaux wine merchant and chateau owner who first made the world aware of what is now one of the most fabled of that region's properties, Château Pétrus, died on March 28 at his home in Libourne, 20 miles east of Bordeaux. He was 89 and had been retired from the fam
 FEINBERG-David. Of New York and West Palm Beach, FL, loving husband of Miriam & the late Jeanette Feinberg, died on April 4, 2003. He was 92. He is survived by his wife Miriam, sister Bert Freeman, his children Kay Cummings, Janie Messina, William Feinberg, Jeffrey Feinberg, daughter-in-law
 GRAY-David G. Passed away peacefully on April 9, 2003. He was a retired partner of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett. A kind and generous soul survived by his wife, Diane; son Neil; brother Larry and many nieces and nephews. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Mary Manning-Walsh Home, 13
 LEVY-Leon. We mourn the loss of a warm, witty and wise friend who lives on in our memories and in the legacy of his good works. Eugene and Mary Linden       
 RAJEC-Stephen L., age 81 died on March 23, 2003. A beloved husband of Elizabeth M. Rajec leaves behind family and friends worldwide. A lover of trees and gentle person, he will be missed by all.       
 RENARD-Henry H., 96, of Yonkers, NY, passed away on Thursday April 10 after a short illness. Devoted husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of Henry and John. Cherished grandfather of Darrell, Todd, Ellen, Marc and Eric. Loving great-grandfather of Ellen, Evelyn, Dylan and Samantha. He was
 STEINBERGER-Dr. Bernard. Steinberger, Bernard, MD. OB/GYN, DOG, FACS, ACOG, AMA, 78, of Highland Beach, FL, passed away on April 8, 2003. Best friend and most deeply beloved husband of Sandy Berkowitz - Steinber ger. Devoted father to Dr. Robert, Carl, Joshua and Paul. Grandfather of Michel
 ADLER-Peter. Our beloved nephew and cousin. He will be missed. Rest in peace. Selma, Mike and Ricky       
 CHAICE-Herbert H. The law firm of Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler LLP mourns the death of our colleague, Herb Chaice, a superb lawyer and good friend, who retired from active practice in 1999. He brought true meaning to the term ''counsellor-at-law.'' He leaves us his wisdom, his love for 
 HOYT-Robert G. On April 10, 2003 at age 81. Born Janauary 30, 1922 to Guy R. Hoyt and Ella Winn Hoyt in Clinton, Iowa. Husband of Mig Boyle. Father of Michael Hoyt, Tim Hoyt, Mary Theresa Durkin, James Hoyt, Mary Jo Hoyt, Anne Hoyt and Sarah Hoyt. Grandfather of Megan Durkin, Luke Durkin, A
 LEONE-Clarence G., on April 10, 2003. Beloved husband of Marie. Devoted father of Marilyn Pranzo, Gloria Basile and Joseph Leone. Also survived by his sister, Marie, nine grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. Visiting Saturday-Sunday, 2-5 PM and 7-9 PM, at the N.F. Walker Funeral Hom
 LIEBLING-Walter. On April 8, 2003, at the age of 90. Born in Vienna, Austria, graduate of the University of Vienna Medical School, he immigrated to the United States in 1938 and served during World War II with the US Army Medical Corps in Europe and the Philippines. After the war he set up 
 LIEHR-Joachim Georg, 60, died April 8, 2003. Dr. Liehr is survived by his loving wife, Kitty, and his beloved sons, Christopher and Patrick. Dr. Liehr dedicated the last 30 years of his life to battling cancer and his pioneering research resulted in treatments that ended the suffering of ma
 METIANU-Ioan, M.D. On April 11, 2003, peacefully at age 90. A loving husband and father, he is survived by his wife, Pia, and children John and Ioana. Visitation Sunday, April 13, 7-9:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St.       
 SLOTT-Elliot. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, NY, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member, Elliot Slott. He will be sorely missed.       
 SMEAL-Frank P. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America mourn the loss of Frank P. Smeal, Eagle Scout, our former President, our generous and consistant supporter and, most importantly, our friend. His generosity and leadership has had an enormous impact o
 STEIN-Samuel, died April 10, 2003 at age 74. Beloved husband of Barbara (Ellen), loving father of Leslie, Alan, and Betsy, and proud grandfather of Rusty, Rebecca, Daniel, Sarah, Kevin, and Jimmy. Funeral services are 12 noon on Sunday, April 13 at Larchmont Temple, 75 Larchmont Ave., Larch
 WEISSMAN - Joseph. Died peacefully April 10, 2003 at age 85 in NYC. Beloved husband of Marion Lieben, the late Helen and the late Dorothy. Adored by his children, step-children and grandchildren. Retired pharmacist, army veteran, proud alumnus of College of Pharmacy. Funeral at Plaza Chapel
 STEINBERGER-Dr. Bernard. Steinberger, Bernard, MD. OBYN, DOG, FACS, ACOG, AMA/d, 78, of Highland Beach, FL, passed away on April 8, 2003. Best friend and most deeply beloved husband of Sandy Berkowitz - Steinber ger. Devoted father to Dr. Robert, Carl, Joshua and Paul. Grandfather of Michel
 Robert G. Hoyt, who founded The National Catholic Reporter, an independent weekly newspaper that substantially changed the way Roman Catholicism was covered and understood in the United States, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 81. Mr. Hoyt, who had been in ill health and on dia
 Dr. Donald W. Fiske, a psychologist who helped establish the multiple-method approach to social science research and challenged the idea that personalities could be defined with traits that were consistent through time and across situations, died on April 5 at his home in Chicago. He was 86
 Dr. Emmanuel Ghent, a pioneering composer of computer-generated electronic music and a practitioner, researcher and teacher of psychoanalysis, died on March 31 in New York. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Karen Weiss. In the late 1960's, while on a Gu
 Jorge Oteiza, a Basque artist and intellectual whose abstract metal sculptures seemed spacious and weightless despite their large scale, died on Wednesday in San Sebastián, Spain. He was 94. Although Mr. Oteiza was not widely known outside Spain, his work resonated with a handful o
 BROWN-George C. Beloved husband of Bianca. Devoted father of Peter Brown and Peggy Paviour and father-inlaw of Mady and Robert. Cherished grandfather of Jonah, Malina, Ben and Sonja. He was a Holocaust survivor and an innovator who will be missed by his family and all who knew him. For info
 CAMOGLU-Dr. Tevhit, a loving father and husband, passed away on April 2, 2003 after a long, full life. Dr. Camoglu was born in the small village of Anatolia in rural Turkey and worked his way to achieve proficiency in English and French, with a scholarship at the University of Sorbonne, Par
 COWAN-Martin David. Was born November 13, 1914 in the Bronx, New York. He was raised in Brooklyn and graduated from Fordham University and St. Lawrence University Law School. He practiced Law, Insurance and was active in Reform Judaism. He is survived by his wife Lillian Cowan, daughters Ju
 FRIEZNER-Benjamin. Founder of Brooklyn News Company. Pre-deceased by his ''Hon'' Anne, who awaits her ''very good man.'' He will be greatly missed by his adoring family.       
 GELLERMAN-Dr. Saul William. Former Dean of the Graduate School of Management, University of Dallas. Worldwide management consultant. Died on March 26th, 2003 in Cleveland. He was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania where he received a Ph.D. in Clinical and Industrial Psychology. He
 HOYT-Robert G. On April 10, 2003 at age 81. Born Janauary 30, 1922 to Guy R. Hoyt and Ella Winn Hoyt in Clinton, Iowa. Husband of Mig Boyle. Father of Michael Hoyt, Tim Hoyt, Mary Theresa Durkin, James Hoyt, Mary Jo Hoyt, Anne Hoyt and Sarah Hoyt. Grandfather of Megan Durkin, Luke Durkin, A
 JONES-Jere. We celebrate the life of Jere Jones-an adoring husband, father, grandpa, friend, mentor, and passionate professor - a maverick and an original. Jere loved to dream, lived to think, and changed the world around him. A memorial service will be announced. The Family       
 LIEBRADER-Myron Lawrence, Passed away Friday, January 31, 2003, age 73, after intrepid battle with leukemia. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. Former resident of Sunnyside and Bayside, Queens. Son of Sol and Estelle Liebrader, beloved husband of 13 years to the late Barbara Liebrader. Survived by his 
 MARKS-E. Kenneth. 81, died April 10, 2003 at home. Beloved husband of Bunny, loving father of Greg, Lynn and Kathi, father-in-law of Susan Marks, Clifford Pearlman and James Findley, grandfather of Andrew and Zach. Decorated naval officer, avid sportsman, he devoted many years to community 
 PENN-Matthew, 89, died on April 3, from Alzheimers. He graduated from University of Penn and Columbia University School of Social Work. He was Executive Director of the Bronx YM-YWHA. He and his wife, Mary, owned and directed Camp Vega in Readfield, ME, for 21 years. Later he was Director o
 PERKINS-Richard S. Died April 10, 2003, in Hobe Sound, FL. He was born in Milton, MA, in 1910 and had a career in banking, becoming Chairman of the Executive Committee of Citibank. He also held many corporate directorships and was active in numerous charitable and civic organizations in New
 REVER-Irwin S. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irwin S. Rever. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Pearl, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, Pres. Leon Fassler, Secretary     
 SMEAL-Frank P. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America mourn the loss of Frank P. Smeal, Eagle Scout, our former President, our generous and consistant supporter and, most importantly, our friend. His generosity and leadership has had an enormous impact o
 STEIN-Samuel. The Board and Officers of The Westchester Jewish Conference join Barbara and the family in mourning the loss of our past President. Sam was a strong supporter of the Westchester Jewish community and of Israel. His inspiration and leadership will be long missed. Irwin Davison, 
 STEINBERGER-Dr. Bernard. Steinberger, Bernard, MD. OB/GYN, DOG, FACS, ACOG, AMA, 78, of Highland Beach, FL, passed away on April 8, 2003. Best friend and most deeply beloved husband of Sandy Berkowitz - Steinber ger. Devoted father to Dr. Robert, Carl, Joshua and Paul. Grandfather of Michel
 WEISSMAN - Joseph. Died peacefully April 10, 2003 at age 85 in NYC. Beloved husband of Marion Lieben, the late Helen and the late Dorothy. Adored by his children, step-children and grandchildren. Retired pharmacist, army veteran, proud alumnus of College of Pharmacy. Funeral at Plaza Chapel
 WHITE-Peter, age 100, on April 10, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Lillian Strisik White; loving brother of Irving White and the late Samuel White, Winifred Grossman, and Elizabeth Samuelson; cherished uncle of Enid Lang, Eugene White, Judith Lubow, Jane Giusti, Sara Siegelman, and Paul G
 WINKS-Robin W., Ph.D. The Board of Trustees and staff of the National Parks Conservation Association mourn the loss of Robin Winks, a longtime NPCA board member and author of several books on national parks. His character and dedication will forever remain with us and with the national park
 WOLLENBERGER - Gerard. A lawyer of utmost integrity, and a loyal friend to many. His sudden passing leaves a large void. He will be sadly missed and not forgotten. Vivien and Morton Svigals WOLLENBERGER - Gerard, on April 8, 2003. You were our very special friend for many years and 
 GOODMAN-Ruby (Robert). April 16, 1973. Remembering my Dad. 30 years does not diminish my memories of his love, wit, and music. I cherish his mandolin. Arnold L.       
 Dr. Robert Frank Goldberger, a professor emeritus of biochemistry and molecular biophysics and former provost of Columbia University, died on April 5 at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 69 and lived in the Riverdale neighborhood of the Bronx. The cause was a stroke, his family said.
 Dino Yannopoulos, a prominent stage director at the Metropolitan Opera and elsewhere, died April 6 in Philadelphia. He was 83. In a career of more than 50 years, he was principal director of the Metropolitan Opera in New York from 1945 to 1977. He was also artistic director 
 Dr. Arthur C. Guyton, the author of one of the world's most widely used medical textbooks, a researcher who made significant contributions to the understanding of hypertension and who was the father of 10 Harvard-educated doctors, died in an automobile accident near his home in Jackson, Mis
 Lloyd L. Brown, a journalist and novelist who helped Paul Robeson write his autobiography, ''Here I Stand,'' and was an editor at the leftist literary journal New Masses, died at his home in Manhattan on April 1. He was 89. Published in 1958, ''Here I Stand'' chronicled Robeson's ca
 CHRISTENSEN-Ralph C. 92 of Port Washington, NY, on April 12, 2003. Former Senior Vice President of the American Bureau of Shipping. Mr. Christensen is survived by his wife, Esther, a son Warren, a daughter Jane Stuebner, and four grandsons. A memorial service to follow at a later date, Fair
 HAYES-Father Thomas L. Director of the Episcopal Peace Fellowship during the Vietnam War. He participated in the draft card burning in Sheep's Meadow in Central Park in 1967. He served as minister to the American draft resisters in Sweden. Funeral services today, 4 PM, at St. Paul's Episcop
 MARKS-E. Kenneth. An exceptional, always joyful and enthusiastic husband, father, grandfather and special friend to everyone who knew and loved him. His leadership inspired ''conflict resolution'' in public schools, County Tennis Club, the Northern Westchester Arts Society and every tennis 
 PERKINS-Richard S. Died April 10, 2003, in Hobe Sound, FL. He was born in Milton, MA, in 1910 and had a career in banking, becoming Chairman of the Executive Committee of Citibank. He also held many corporate directorships and was active in numerous charitable and civic organizations in New
 RICONDA-Harry P. On April 12, 2003. Beloved husband of Kathleen (nee Lawlor). Devoted father of Edward, Gerard, Thomas, Andrew and Robert. Loving grandfather of seven. Korean War veteran, retired teacher 40 years Xavier High School, and published author. Donations in his memory to Xavier Hi
 WALDMAN-Lawrence, Esq. Died April 9, 2003. Survived by his devoted wife, Ruth, three loving children, Cindy, Steven and Adam, and adoring grandchildren Benjamin, Jonathan and Caroline.       
 WEINSTOCK-Seymour. Age 80, died on April 13, 2003. Husband of Rose. Father of Martin, Amy and Michael Coln, Ronald and Natasha. Grandfather of Anya and Sandra Weinstock and Elena Coln. Funeral service Tuesday, April 15, 11:15a.m. at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam and 76th St. Contribu
 Whitney S. Stoddard, an art historian and influential teacher who taught for many years at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., died on April 2 at his home there. He was 90. Mr. Stoddard wrote important studies tracing the origins and styles of medieval art and architecture. His
 Cecil H. Green, a founder of Texas Instruments and a major educational and medical philanthropist, died on Friday in La Jolla, Calif. He was 102. On Dec. 6, 1941, Mr. Green joined with Eugene McDermott, J. Erik Jonsson and H. Bates Peacock to buy a Dallas company called Geophysical 
 Noel Fox, a former bass singer with the Oak Ridge Boys who became a power in the music business, died here on Thursday. He was 63. He died after surgery following a series of strokes, his longtime band manager, Jim Halsey, said. Mr. Fox was born and raised in Columbia, about
 BIELE-Harry D. Died peacefully in his sleep April 11, 2003. Born April 29, 1908. His life was dedicated to Israel and satellite causes. Executive Director of National Committee for Resettlement of Foreign Physicians from 1940-43; Executive for U.J.A., 1947 serving for many years, as Directo
 CUNNINGHAM-James F. of Port Jefferson Station, L.I., formerly of Bay Shore, L.I. and Astoria, Queens. Dedicated service to the Marine Corps. Proud retiree of the NYC Fire Department and Air France. James was a marathon runner, world traveler who joyfully enriched the lives of all who crosse
 DeFRANCESCO-Vincent, 94. Of Forked River, NJ, died Monday, April 14 at home. He was employed at The New York Times before retiring in 1970. Surviving are his wife Anna (nee Ravallo) of 70 years, four daughters and sons-in-law, Rose and John Meola of Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, Joan and Joe 
 DOODY-James P. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of James P. Doody; a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White Jr., Historian       
 DRUM-Leonard, 78. Passed away March 18, 2003, after a long battle with cancer. Was a featured actor on Broadway in Marat Sade, Walking Happy, and as Black Eagle in the revival of Whoopee! Appeared off-Bway, television on The Ozzie and Harriet Show, and in the Fosse film, All That Jazz, and 
 DYMOND-Jonas. It is with profound sorrow that the officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of The Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of Jonas Dymond, an esteemed member of our club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Barbara and to the entire family. Robert Fortu
 KRUVANT-Philip. Age 89. Of South Orange, N.J. On April 13, 2003. Beloved husband of Naomi (nee Goldberg). Cherished father of William, Steven, Kenneth and Roger. Dear grandfather to nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Services were held Monday, April 14, Bernheim Apter Kreitzman, L
 PERKINS-Richard S. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art deeply mourn the passing of Richard S. Perkins, a devoted Trustee and Benefactor who served for many years on the visiting committee to the Department of Islamic Art as well as on various Trustee Committees. During 
 SHARFSTEIN-Sidney J. On April 14, 2003. In Palm Beach, FL. Our beloved ''Pop''. Adored husband of Beverly for 64 wonderful years. Cherished father of Steven and Margaret; Howard and Jill. Specially loved grandfather and great-grandfather. Services Wednesday, April 16, 2003, 10 AM, Plaza Jew
 SMEAL-Frank P., 84, died April 8, 2003 at his home, after a long illness. Mr. Smeal was born in Sykesville, PA. He lived in Jackson Heights, Queens, NY and New Shrewsbury before moving to Rumson, NJ in 1969. Mr. Smeal, a 1942 Phi Beta Kappa graduate in economics at Pennsylvania State Univer
 WAGER-Eli, Justice. He set a standard for public service too seldom equaled. Respected and loved by Carol and Jerry Berman       
 WEINSTOCK-Seymour. Age 80, died on April 13, 2003. Husband of Rose. Father of Martin, Amy and Michael Coln, Ronald and Natasha. Grandfather of Anya and Sandra Weinstock and Elena Coln. Brother of Marvin and the late Ruth Schumack. Funeral service Tuesday, April 15, 11:15a.m. at Riverside Me
 WOUDENBERG - Richard, age 76, on April 12, 2003. We celebrate the life of Richard, beloved by his family and friends, adoring wife Carole, children Eric, Timothy, Ruthe, Lisa and Valerie; and special grandpa to Carina, Toshi, Raina, Nathan, Cherissa, Michaela, Emma and Danny; and brother to
 Tom King, the Hollywood columnist of The Wall Street Journal, died on Sunday while he was visiting friends on Long Island, The Journal reported yesterday. He was 39 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause of death was not known, pending an autopsy. A native of Cedar Rapids, Iowa
 Charles H. Bell, the son of the founder of General Mills, who helped transform a flour-milling company into an international diversified food manufacturer, died on Saturday in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 95. In the 25 years he held top positions at the company, Mr. Bell broadened t
 Leonard Tose, a son of an immigrant peddler who built a multimillion-dollar trucking business, bought the Philadelphia Eagles pro football team in 1969 and later sold the business and the team to pay off more than $25 million in gambling debts at Atlantic City casinos, died yesterday in Phi
 BENEDICT - David, Cantor Emeritus. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns his death and extends deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Jay H. Rosenbaum, Rabbi Joel Gerstel, President Joel Y. Zion, Rabbi Emeritus       
 BLIVEN-John Sheffield Sr. Age 81, of St. Simons Island, GA. and formerly of Lloyd Harbor, N.Y. and Providence, R.I., died April 12, 2003. Mr. Sheffield was a World War II Navy veteran and attended Brown University. He retired from Bankers Trust as a Senior Vice President with 45 years of se
 CUNNINGHAM-James F. of Port Jefferson Station, L.I., formerly of Bay Shore, L.I. and Astoria, Queens. Dedicated service to the Marine Corps. Proud retiree of the NYC Fire Department and Air France. James was a marathon runner, world traveler who joyfully enriched the lives of all who crosse
 DIX-Norman. Died quietly comforted by his wife and friends on April 14, 2003 after an accident on April 1. Survivors are his beloved wife, Elayne Neufeld Dix, three children and their spouses, Mitchell Dix and Bonnie Taub-Dix, Edna and Michael Miller, and Floyd Dix and Cindy Nord. Also surv
 FLYNN-Thomas D. Died on April 12, 2003 at age 90 while on vacation in Puerto Rico. Beloved husband of Harriet Howland for 62 years; father and father-in-law to Susan and Stephen Gordon, Christine Flynn and Paul Segal, and John and Leslie Flynn; grandfather to Alexandra and John Gordon, Hann
 HEILWEIL-David. Age 82, of Riverdale, NY, on April 14, 2003. Beloved husband of Enid, cherished father of Victoria, Andrea, and Jeffrey. Dear grandfather to Pamela, Christopher, Lauren, and Matthew. President of Heilweil Produce. A kind, generous man, he will be sorely missed by all who kne
 RANZER-Ranny. Of Boca Raton, FL. Loving husband of Sylvia and the late Ethel Ranzer. Died on April 14. He is survived by his sons Mark and David, daughters-in-law Judy and Joanne, grandchildren Cori, Karen, Ian, Alan and Beth Ranzer. Ranny spent his career in the garment center where he was
 REDDINGTON - Michael J. Jr. of East Northport (formerly of Manhasset). Beloved father of Michael and Helen, Robert, James and Alli, Patricia, Steven. Cherished grandfather of four. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, 3-5 and 7-9PM. Religious service 10 
 SCHLESINGER - Alvin L., D.D.S., Age 97. Died on April 12, 2003. He was predeceased by his loving wife Harriet and is survived by his children, Michael and wife Lauren; Rosalind and husband Ronald; grandchildren, Robert and wife Deborah, Philip, Leonard, Charles and sister Muriel Gluck, resi
 SHARFSTEIN-Sidney. The officers and directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System sadly mourn the untimely passing of Sidney Sharfstein, beloved father of our esteemed fellow board member, Howard Sharfstein. May his legacy act as a source of inspiration to all those whom he touched. We pra
 SMEAL-Frank. The Trustees and staff of the Citizens Budget Commission mourn the death of Frank Smeal, our former Chairman & generous supporter. We extend our sympathies to his children Hank & Maggie. Frank will be missed by all who share his concern for, and devotion to, the future of New Y
 WELCH-John P., 57, of Brooklyn, died April 14, 2003. He was Founder, CEO and Executive Director for Independent Living Association in Brooklyn with facilities throughout the boroughs. He was a Member of the American Association on Mental Retardation; Board Member NYS Association of Communit
 Robert H. Helmick, a former president of the United States Olympic Committee who resigned in 1991 because of perceived conflicts of interest, died yesterday at a hospital in Des Moines. He was 66. He had a stroke last Friday, his wife, Georgia, said. While working full time 
 Thomas David Flynn, a retired New York accounting executive and the first chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was known as Big Mac during the city's dark fiscal days in the mid-1970's, died on Saturday while on a family vacation in Puerto Rico. He was 90 and lived in Pri
 D. Gale Johnson, a pioneer in agricultural economics and later an expert on the Soviet Union and China, died Sunday in Amherst, Mass. He was 86. The cause was pneumonia related to Lou Gehrig's disease, according to his daughter, Kay Ann. Professor Johnson's career in agricul
 Emerson Chapin, a longtime New York Times editor and foreign correspondent, died on Monday in Montclair, N.J. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter, Ruth, said. Mr. Chapin, who lived in Montclair, worked for The Times from 1955 until his retirement 
 Glenn Savan, whose popular first novel, ''White Palace'' (1987), was about a St. Louis waitress's mismatched romance with an ad man, died on Monday at his home in Shrewsbury, Mo. He was 49. The cause was either a heart attack or stroke, his family said. Mr. Savan's book was 
 John Strejan, who earned the nickname Silverblade for his mastery of paper engineering in designing complicated and fanciful pop-up books for children and adults, died in Los Angeles on March 26. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Stephanie Strejan-Schwartz. 
 D'ATRI-Justin. An incomporable crown jewel, widely recognized as a brilliant attorney, modestly giving of himself to others and their betterment. He possessed a robust mind, spirit and demeanor. His earthly presence walked on the summit of goodness and greatness. A lifetime friend & partner
 DYMOND-Jonas. Jonas, Barbara and their entire family were and are part of our family. No greater loss can be felt than when one of your own passes on, and one of our own has. Jonas will be greatly missed. His smile and warmth will be hard to replace. The Utsteins       
 FLYNN-Thomas D. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus, Thomas D. Flynn, a graduate of the Columbia Business School, Class of 1939. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as a University Trustee was marked by enthu
 KEND-David J. Of Boca Raton, FL and New York City, died on April 15. Loving husband of Joan; father of Robert and Peter; father-inlaw of Katherine and Diane and grandfather of Sydney, Alyssa and Samuel Kend. He is also survived by his sister Connie and brother-in-law Albert Eisenstat of Ath
 LeFRAK-Samuel J. At the age of 85 on April 16, 2003. Peacefully at his home with his loving family. Chairman of the LeFrak Organization, one of the largest private building firms in the world. He is survived by his loving wife Ethel Stone LeFrak, devoted and loving children Denise LeFrak Ca
 LIEBLING-Walter, MD. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center (SLRHC) family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Walter Liebling, MD, a former member of the fa
 LOVE-Brett J., 41. On April 12 in Los Angeles after a courageous battle with cancer. A professor, writer and filmmaker, he is survived by his loving wife, Laura Chavez Silverman, his mother and stepfather Yveta Synek Graff and F. Malcolm Graff of New York, father Robert L. Love of Sante Fe,
 PERKINS-Richard S. The Chapin School community is deeply saddened by the death of Richard S. Perkins. A member of the Board of Trustees for over 18 years, he served the school with great distinction, first as treasurer of the Board, and then as its president from 1960-1969. We extend our sy
 SHAIN-Charles. The trustees and officers of Connecticut College offer their heartfelt condolences to the family of President Emeritus Charles Shain, who died April 13 in Maine. President Shain served as a much beloved president from 1962 to 1974, and his visionary leadership continues to sh
 STEIN-Bernard Z. On April 15, 2003 in his 90th year, of complications from prostate cancer. Loving husband of Marion, father of Ellen (Howard) and Rob (Mara), grandfather of Andrew (Stephanie), David, Laura, Reyna and Bart. He was loved by family and friends, and his warmth and his smile wi
 Samuel J. LeFrak, an outspoken champion of middle-income housing who headed the family company that produced it in and around New York City more plentifully than any other builder in the years since World War II, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. Through four decad
 Dr. Robert C. Atkins, a cardiologist who devised a hotly debated weight-loss plan favoring steak and eggs over spaghetti and spinach that more than 30 million Americans have tried, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 72. Dr. Atkins fell and suffered head injuries on April 8 on the s
 J. Paul Getty Jr., the remote American-born heir to an oil fortune who made Britain his home and beneficiary, died yesterday in London. He was 70. Mr. Getty was admitted to the private London Clinic on Monday and was being treated for a recurrent chest infection, the Associated Pres
 John S. Latsis, the last of a generation of extremely rich Greek shipowners and businessmen that included household names like Aristotle Onassis and Stavros Niarchos, died on April 17 in Athens. He was 92. The Latsis business empire included shipping, banks, oil refineries and const
 CHAPIN-Emerson E. ''Bud''. Died April 14, 2003. Survived by Ruth, his wife of 57 years; son David and daughter Ruth; grandchildren, Madeleine, Russell, Eli and Lianna and sister, Mary Elizabeth. He grew up on Staten Island and graduated from the University of Rochester, Phi Beta Kappa with 
 DENIHAN-Kevin G. suddenly on April 16, 2003 of NYC. Beloved father of Leslie Rogers, Kevin, Meredith & Kelly. Dear grandfather of Brittany, Ashley & Connor. Loving son of Doris & Griff. Brother of Dennis, Richard, Michael and Deborah McPartland. Devoted fiance of Anne Desmond. In repose at 
 FLYNN-Thomas D. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus, Thomas D. Flynn, a graduate of the Columbia Business School, Class of 1939. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as a University Trustee was marked by enthu
 LeFRAK-Samuel J. At the age of 85 on April 16, 2003. Peacefully at his home with his loving family. Chairman of the LeFrak Organization, one of the largest private building firms in the world. He is survived by his loving wife Ethel Stone LeFrak, devoted and loving children Denise LeFrak Ca
 MILLER-Robert Myles. 77. Died April 17th after a long courageous battle with emphysema. Robert, born, lived and loved New York, died at home. He leaves his wife of fifty-one years, Selma (nee Gruenstein); son, Robert Myles Jr. and wife Jill Winitzer, daughter Amy Ruth and husband John Kloss
 SCHOENWETTER-Sumner Edward, on April 15th, of lymphoma. Husband of Susan Lehman, brother of Cynthia Sobel, brother-in-law of Gerald Sobel, uncle to Adam and Melissa Sobel. Artist, musician and eternal scholar. As Sumner Crane, his composition ''Jon Gavanti'' and Mars group's recordings stan
 STEIN-Bernard Z. On April 15, 2003 in his 90th year, of complications from prostate cancer. Loving husband of Marion, father of Ellen (Howard) and Rob (Mara), grandfather of Andrew (Stephanie), David, Laura, Reyna and Bart. He was loved by family and friends, and his warmth and his smile wi
 UNGER-William H. Age 83, Tenafly, N.J. On April 14. His wife, Dorothy mourns her beloved husband of 57 years. His son, Christopher and granddaughters Eve Biddle, Amy and Deborah Unger will miss his love and caring.       
 WERTHEIM-Albert, 62, of Bloomington, IN., died April 16, 2003. Cherished son, husband, father, grandfather, father-in-law, relative, mentor, colleague and friend, he will be profoundly missed.       
 FLYNN-Thomas D. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus, Thomas D. Flynn, a graduate of the Columbia Business School, Class of 1939. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as a University Trustee was marked by enthu
 KEND-David J. Of Boca Raton, FL and New York City, died on April 15. Loving husband of Joan; father of Robert and Peter; father-inlaw of Katherine and Diane and grandfather of Sydney, Alyssa and Samuel Kend. He is also survived by his sister Connie and brother-in-law Albert Eisenstat of Ath
 LeFRAK-Samuel J. ''Tiger,'' friend, dear sweet man, your larger-than-life life ended, know again my respect and gratitude. You stood by me in 1978, sheltered our apartments in your management, and by seeking me for your staff, strengthened my resolve. You said we ''built for midgets''-we ar
 MILLER-Robert Myles. 77. Died April 17th after a long courageous battle with emphysema. Robert, born, lived and loved New York, died at home. He leaves his wife of fifty-one years, Selma (nee Gruenstein); son, Robert Myles Jr. and wife Jill Winitzer, daughter Amy Ruth and husband John Kloss
 STEIN-Bernard Z. On April 15, 2003 in his 90th year, of complications from prostate cancer. Loving husband of Marion, father of Ellen (Howard) and Rob (Mara), grandfather of Andrew (Stephanie), David, Laura, Reyna and Bart. He was loved by family and friends, and his warmth and his smile wi
 Quigg Newton, who was the mayor of Denver and the president of the University of Colorado before becoming the president of the Commonwealth Fund, a philanthropic foundation based in Manhattan that increased its support for urban health care during his tenure, died on April 4 in Denver. He w
 Theodore Weiss, a poet with a bent for narrative verse who was also an influential critic and teacher of English literature and creative writing at Princeton University, died on Tuesday at his home in Princeton. He was 86. With his wife, Renee Karol Weiss, Mr. Weiss edited Quarterly
 Earl King, the New Orleans rhythm-and-blues guitarist and singer who wrote songs that became Mardi Gras standards, died on Thursday in New Orleans, his lawyer said. He was 69. The cause was complications related to diabetes, according to the lawyer, Greg Eveline.. Mr. King, 
 Prof. Franz Rosenthal, an eminent interpreter of Arabic literature and Islamic religion and a scholar of Aramaic, died on April 8 at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 88 and had lived in Hamden, Conn. He was Sterling professor emeritus of Arabic at Yale. Professor Rosentha
 BARTOS - Phillip Nicholas. Died on April 9th, at age 62, son of the late Harold Bartos, and the late Solita Beresford, survived by his half-brother James Bartos, his many cousins, and by his devoted companion Jennifer Hahn. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 BOKER-John, Jr., 90, worldrenowned philatelist, key figure in WWII military intelligence history, and manufacturer of specialty cutlery, including the widely collected ''Boker'' pocketknife, died April 12 at his home in Scarsdale, NY. Recognized by the Collector's Club as the foremost phila
 DEUTCHMAN-Hy. On April 18, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Min. Devoted father of Barbara and Robert Covell and Cora Deutchman. Loving brother of Lester. Adored grandfather of Jennifer Covell - Ranheim (Beau), Chrissy Gordon (Peter) and Bill Covell (Sonia). Greatgrandfather of Phoebe and 
 DOUGLAS-Edward O., 76, formerly of New York City and Ghent, New York, died of heart failure on April 1 in Peterborough, New Hampshire. His ashes have been laid to rest at Deerfield Academy, his alma mater. Effy, his beloved cat and companion, predeceased him by three weeks. Of old New Engla
 DUKE-Terri Lynn (aka Linda Schimmel). Born October 27, 1955, Chicago, with twin brother Ernest Duke (do you know him?) 212-787-0445       
 DUNCAN - Jiman. The trustees, faculty, staff, students and parents of the Buckley School deeply mourn the passing of Jiman Duncan, our inspiring music instructor, coach and mentor. We will sorely miss Jiman's vibrant dedication to teaching and to challenging all those in his charge always t
 FLYNN-Thomas D. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus, Thomas D. Flynn, a graduate of the Columbia Business School, Class of 1939. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as a University Trustee was marked by enthu
 FRUMIN-M. Jack, M.D., 83, a dedicated anesthesiologist, teacher, scientist died at home in Menlo Park, CA, on April 8, 2003 of Parkinson's disease. Loving husband of Helen for 60 years, Menlo Park; loving father of Eric, Brooklyn; Melissa, Newton, MA; and the late Steven Frumin; loving fath
 FUCHSBERG-Abraham. Senior Partner of Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg, a New York City plaintiff's personal injury firm, passed away on April 15, 2003, at the age of 87. He was one of five siblings (including the late Honorable Jacob D. Fuchsberg, a former Court of Appeals Judge), all of whom had work
 HERNRIED-Erwin G. 81, died in California on April 3, 2003. His sister, Doris, and his children, Alan, Jocelyn, and Mariella, will miss him.       
 KEND-David J. Of Boca Raton, FL and New York City, died on April 15. Loving husband of Joan; father of Robert and Peter; father-inlaw of Katherine and Diane and grandfather of Sydney, Alyssa and Samuel Kend. He is also survived by his sister Connie and brother-in-law Albert Eisenstat of Ath
 KITTAY-Max. On April 17th, of Hewlett, New York. The founder of Kittay and Blitz. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Father of Sydney Travis. Grandfather of Leslie (Peter) Zackin and David Travis. Great-grandfather of Michelle, Benjamin, and Daniel. Adored uncle. Loved by all who knew him.
 LEFRAK-Samuel J. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a cherished friend, who was one of the earliest members of our Society of Founders. As one of our nation's most influential builders, Mr. LeFrak was a pioneer in providing 
 MILLER-Robert Myles. 77. Died April 17th after a long courageous battle with emphysema. Robert, born, lived and loved New York, died at home. He leaves his wife of fifty-one years, Selma (nee Gruenstein); son, Robert Myles Jr. and wife Jill Winitzer, daughter Amy Ruth and husband John Kloss
 MOLINAS-Max. Age 81, Bronx, New York, died April 17, 2003. A loving and devoted man who dedicated his life to the education of others while appreciating the beauty in everyday life. His warmth, kindness and humility will be deeply missed. He is survived by Dorothy, his wife of 51 years; his
 MOREAU-Antoine Claude, M.D. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of regret that we, the Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center family and the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology mourn the loss of our esteemed and respected staff member, Dr. Antoine Claude Moreau. He was an outstanding clini
 PECK-Thomas Slonim. Age 52. Passed away suddenly April 12, 2003, at his home in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Seena; loving father of Tucker and Harrison; cherished son of Marguerite and Edgar Peck and son-in-law of Mildred Mufson; dear brother of Joel Peck, brother-in-law of Rochelle 
 ROSEMAN-Arnold D. Prominent criminal defense lawyer, judge and former Commissioner of the New York State Investigation Commission (SIC), died on April 17 at his home in Scarsdale, NY. He was 86 years old. A graduate of Townsend Harris High School, City College of NY and Harvard Law School, 
 ROWEN-Henry. Died April 16, 2003 after a brief illness. A longtime resident of NYC, he was a valued and respected librarian for the Columbia University Rare Book and Manuscript Library. Devoted and gracious friend for 25 years to Janet Asteroff of White Plains. His warmth, intelligence and 
 SCHWARTZ-Leonard N., 87, father of Michael, Jo-Ann Friedman-Rapaport and Herbert. Caring uncle, grandfather and great-grandfather, died Wednesday, April 16th, in Phoenix, AZ, formerly of Brooklyn. Predeceased by his devoted wife, Frances (Siederer), sister Pauline Kramer and brother Sam. Gr
 SPAIN-Maurice Jr., 82. Of Atlantic Beach, FL, formerly of Maplewood, N.J., died April 11, 2003. Mr. Spain was born March 15, 1921, in New York City, the son of Maurice Spain and Helen Schaeffler. He graduated from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and served as a Naval Av
 STEIN-Bernard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Bernard Stein, a cherished friend admired for his extraordinary generosity and devotion to the New York Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wi
 STILLMAN - Michael (Mis cha). On April 15, at home in Somers, NY, at 87. Devoted husband of Beatrice; father of Paul; father-in-law of Susan; grandfather of Nicholas and Daniel, and lifelong friend of former wife Harriet Wingreen. In 1956, Michael and his business partner, the late Rose Rub
 WEISS-Theodore. The entire Bard College community mourns the passing of Theodore Weiss, longtime faculty member and treasured friend. A brilliant poet and gifted teacher, Ted was a beloved and vital member of the Bard community whose vast contribution to the cultural life of the college wil
 Saul William Gellerman, a psychologist, management consultant and author of books and training films in those areas, died on March 26 in Cleveland. He was 74 and a resident of Denver. The cause was complications from heart surgery, said his wife, Patricia. Dr. Gellerman was 
 Earl King, the New Orleans rhythm-and-blues guitarist and singer who wrote songs that became Mardi Gras standards, died on Thursday in New Orleans, his lawyer said. He was 69. The cause was complications related to diabetes, according to the lawyer, Greg Eveline. Mr. King, w
 BRODY-George. Age 94, on April 18, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Cherished father of Martin and Geraldine, Judy and Jerry, Susan and Larry, Karen and Mark. Adored grandfather of 12 and loving great-grandfather of 19. We were blessed to have his love, wise counsel and care.     
 COLE-Hugh. Of Basking Ridge, N.J. and Vero Beach, FL, died on Thursday in Vero Beach. He was 81. The cause was emphysema and lung fibrosis. A born and bred New Yorker, Mr. Cole attended prep school in New York City where he achieved Diamond Belt status in boxing. He then entered Columbia Un
 DeHANN-Dr. Clayton R. Of Warwick, NY. Former Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery at Columbia Presbyterian, and former Chief of Plastic Surgery at St. Luke's Roosevelt, died April 18, at his home. Survived by his wife Patricia Hall DeHann, sons Richard and Christopher, daughters Dorian a
 DeMARCO-Michael, M.D. Of Malverne, on April 18, 2003, age 92. Noted Manhattan physician for almost 50 years. Devoted father of Frank of Manhattan and Anne of Naples, FL. Also survived by two grandchildren. He was on the staff of St. Vincent Hospital. Served in the US Army (1942-1945), comba
 DUTSCHMAN-Arnold. My dear friend, mentor and stockbroker for 40 years. May he rest in peace. Walter Kaner       
 EHRLICH - Cantor Moshe. Congregation Beth Sholom is profoundly saddened with the sudden passing in Israel of our revered and beloved Chazzan and teacher Moshe Ehrlich, who had served us for almost 50 years. He devoted his life to his family, his community and the people of Israel. May the m
 FEIT-Dov. 76, of Lawrence, NY, on April 18, 2003. Beloved husband of Anna, father of Mark, Sharon and David. Loving grandfather of seven. Caring brother and father-inlaw. A true military hero of Israel and a proud businessman. His enduring legacy lives on forever. We will all miss him great
 MURPHY-Michael G., 69, a resident of Eastchester, NY died on April 16, 2003 at Lawrence Hospital. He is survived by his wife Nora Sharkey Murphy, a son Michael and daughter-in-law Heather and grandsons, Evan and Alexander of Coventry, WA. He is also survived by a brother, Frank of Salt Lake
 ROBINSON-Edgar A. On April 19 in Dallas, TX. Beloved husband of Ruth. Adored father of Jeffrey Robinson and Laurie Robinson. Cherished grandfather of James and Daniel Robinson. Loving brother of Roy Robinson and his wife Dale of Flossmoor, IL, and the late Richard Robinson and his wife Elai
 SCHWARTZ-Leonard N., 87, father of Michael, Jo-Ann Friedman-Rapaport and Herbert. Caring uncle, grandfather and great-grandfather, died Wednesday, April 16th, in Phoenix, AZ, formerly of Brooklyn. Predeceased by his devoted wife, Frances (Siederer), sister Pauline Kramer and brother Sam. Gr
 WEISS-Theodore. The entire Bard College community mourns the passing of Theodore Weiss, longtime faculty member and treasured friend. A brilliant poet and gifted teacher, Ted was a beloved and vital member of the Bard community whose vast contribution to the cultural life of the college wil
 SUTTER-Meyer. February 1, 1914-April 21, 1997. Beloved by all who knew him. Larry and Bett       
 Richard B. Sewall, a longtime English professor at Yale University whose influential biography of Emily Dickinson dispelled many myths about the reclusive poet, died in Newton, Mass., on Wednesday at the home of his son Richard. He was 95. In ''The Life of Emily Dickinson,'' publish
 Abraham Fuchsberg, the senior partner in Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg, a New York law firm that is nationally recognized for its success in representing plaintiffs in personal injury cases, died last Tuesday in Miami. He was 87. Mr. Fuchsberg (pronounced FYOOKS-burg) established the firm i
 AHMAD-Hazrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad, 74. World Renowned Muslim Religious Leader. Hazrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad, head of the worldwide Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, born on December 18, 1928 in Qadian, India, passed away on April 19, 2003 in London, England. Mirza Tahir Ahmad was the fourth successor an
 EHRLICH - Cantor Moshe. Cantorial Council of America and Philip and Sarah Belz School of Jewish Music of Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, affiliate of Yeshiva University, mourn the passing of Cantor Moshe Ehrlich. Honorary president of CCA and Belz graduate, he was a dynamic and h
 FUCHSBERG - Abraham. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Abraham Fuchsberg, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who earned enormous respect for his efforts on behalf of Israel and the Jewish people. His contributio
 GOLDSTEIN-Herbert, died on April 17, 2003 at age 89. Beloved husband of Dalia for 25 years, brother of Fifi Daum of N.C. and her family. His family, friends and colleagues will profoundly miss his kindness, love and caring.       
 KAUFMAN-Meyer. On April 18, 2003 in Pittsburgh, PA. Cherished father of our dear friend Martin Kaufman. Our heartfelt sympathy to his entire family at this sad time. Lisa & Jerry Balter       
 LeFRAK-Samuel. We are deeply saddened by the loss of Sam LeFrak, an exceptionally warm, wise and understanding man. Beneath his bold and courageous persona, there was a subtle and challenging sense of humor. We will miss Sam. Our heartfelt sympathy to Ethel, Richard, Denise, Francine, Jacqu
 MULCAHY-Michael Joseph. Beloved husband of Mary Frances. Father of Kathleen, Michael, Patrick, Timothy and Matthew. Born and raised in Manhattan, served in the U.S. Army in WW II 1942-46, practiced as an oral surgeon in Tarrytown, NY 1952-1983, retired 1983 to present in Newbury, MA. His fa
 ROBINSON-Edgar A. On April 19 in Dallas, TX. Beloved husband of Ruth. Adored father of Jeffrey Robinson and Laurie Robinson. Cherished grandfather of James and Daniel Robinson. Loving brother of Roy Robinson and his wife Dale of Flossmoor, IL, and the late Richard Robinson and his wife Elai
 SHAVEL-Irwin A. On April 20, age 88, a courageous and charitable man, died at home with his best friend and beloved wife, Bobbie, of 59 years by his side after an illness of mesotheliomia. Devoted father to Martha, Laurie and Nancy. Loving fatherin-law to John Jessop and Richard Gabel. Ador
 STOKES-John B., a retired Vice President of Chase Bank, passed away on April 19th in Mt. Dora, FL. Formerly of NYC and New Hope, PA. Survived by Matthew Lord, his partner of 26 years, his brother, four sisters and 68 nephews and nieces.       
 SUSSMAN-Samuel, 80. Of New York died April 21, 2003 after a long illness. He was a CPA, attorney and Member of the accounting firm Rothstein, Kass and Co., Roseland, NJ. Formerly he was with the firm of Harry Goodkin & Co. A World War II Army Veteran, Samuel is survived by his sister Evelyn
 The Rev. Eric Butterworth, whose pulpit was in Lincoln Center and whose message of personal renewal through changes in attitude made him a popular leader in the New Age spiritual movement, died on Thursday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 86. His age, typically, was the 
 Cholly Atkins, a superb dancer who brought the polished precision of his legendary tap act with Honi Coles to choreographing the sassy, synchronized moves of the most celebrated Motown performers, died on Saturday in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 89. When groups like the Temptat
 Edgar F. Codd, a mathematician and computer scientist who laid the theoretical foundation for relational databases, the standard method by which information is organized in and retrieved from computers, died on Friday at his home in Williams Island, Fla. He was 79. The cause was hea
 Norbert Anthony Schlei, a legal adviser in the Kennedy and Johnson White House who played major roles in the Cuban missile crisis and civil rights legislation, died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 73 and lived and practiced law in Santa Monica, Calif. The cause was complications 
 BOKER-John R., Jr. The Collectors Club (NY) mourns the death of our longtime and illustrious member, past President, major benefactor and recipient of many awards. He was the towering figure in world-wide philately over the past half century. To his daughters, Pamela Boker and Joan Shisler,
 CURRAN-James Michael ''Buddy''. On April 22, 2003. Cherished son of the late Michael Curran and Bridie Mitchell Curran, beloved father of James Michael Curran, Jr. and Kathleen Lindsay, dear father-in-law of Gail Curran and Bruce Lindsay, loving grandfather of Sean and Ryan Curran and Terri
 DYMOND-Jonas. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 LEE-Lewis Vandegrift, 86, of Watch Hill, RI, on April 19, 2003. Son of the late Cazenove Gardner Lee and Dorothy Vandegrift Lee of Washington, DC. Survived by his wife, Dorothy Lee, his daughters, Catherine Davis of Westport, CT and Marguerite Lee of NYC, his sons-in-law, Elwood Davis and P
 PODELL-Odif. Retired President of Farrand Optical Corporation and Vice President of Curtis-Wright Corporation; co-founder of the modern architecture community, Usonia Homes in Pleasantville; Democratic Party activist and long-time supporter of the State of Israel. Survived by his wife of 57
 SEIDENSTEIN - Morris (Moe), 94, died on April 21. Predeceased by his wife Shirley of over 30 years. He was loved by all generations. Survived by daughter Barbara and Joel Levine, son Bruce Seidenstein and stepson Joel and Judie Redler, brother Bernie & many grandchildren and great grandchil
 SHAVEL-Irwin A. On April 20, age 88, a courageous and charitable man, died at home with his best friend and beloved wife, Bobbie, of 59 years by his side after an illness of mesotheliomia. Devoted father to Martha, Laurie and Nancy. Loving fatherin-law to John Jessop and Richard Gabel. Ador
 WEILL-Raymond H. The Philatelic Foundation mourns the death of its longtime Benefactor, Trustee and recipient, in 1988 together with his late brother Roger, of The Mortimer L. Neinken Medal for meritorious service to our organization. Louis Grunin, Chairman       
 QUINTANA-Manuel Ignacio. Mass of Christian Burial on Friday, April 25 at 10AM at the Oratory Church at St. Boniface, 111 Willoughby St, Brooklyn NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to the Cousteau Society or Fairchild Tropical Gardens       
 Teddy Edwards, a deft and soulful saxophonist who was a mainstay of the Southern California jazz scene and played what is said to be the first recorded bebop solo on tenor saxophone, died on Sunday in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, which was d
 Bertram Ross, a leading member of the Martha Graham Dance Company for two decades and Graham's longtime dance partner, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. He had been suffering from Parkinson's syndrome for some years, but the immediate cause of death was 
 KIEVES-George. At age 80. Beloved husband of Ethel. Devoted father of Linda, William, the late Ellen and the late Lawrence. Adored grandfather of Philip and Bradley. Dear brother of Beatrice Parker, Celia Skolnick, Julius Kieves, and the late Sidney Kieves. Services on Friday, April 25, 10 
 LeFRAK-Samuel. The members of the Board of Directors of the Children's Blood Foundation express their condolences to Denise LeFrak Calicchio and John Calicchio upon the death of Mr. Samuel LeFrak. To honor the incredible spirit and many contributions of Samuel LeFrak, the Children's Blood F
 MERITT-Kenneth, December 10, 1928-April 21, 2003. His family of friends will miss the wit, charm and humor of a special pal, gone too soon. Bless you, Kenny.       
 MILLER-Dr. Sherwood P. The Board of Directors and staff of Selfhelp Community Services are saddened by the death of Dr. Sherwood P. Miller, a dear friend and dedicated board member. His commitment to insuring quality home care services for elderly New Yorkers greatly assisted Selfhelp. Our 
 PHILLIPS-Nathan, 90, died on April 22, 2003 at his home in Westport, CT. Beloved husband of Sylvia, cherished father of Joan Phillips and Shelly Metz and Laurie and Roy Witkin. Loving grandfather of Mark and Deborah Phillips, Neil Phillips, Nicole and Brian Keldsen, Scott Witkin, Josh and N
 ROSS-Bertram. We mourn the loss of our friend, Bertram Ross, a great dancer, an outstanding cabaret performer with his partner the inimitable John Wallowitch, and above all, a wonderful human being. We will miss him dearly and our thoughts are with you, John. Zoey and Danny Wilson       
 SILVER-Morris, 92, of Boca Raton, on April 22. Born in Philadelphia, lived in Jamaica, NY many years and practiced law in Brooklyn where he founded Esquire Lodge. Survived by his beloved wife Sadye, daughter and son-inlaw Carole and Ronald Korn, grandchildren Douglas (Betsy), Karen (Brendan
 STEARNS-John. The employees of Bear Stearns are deeply saddened by the loss of our colleague and friend, John Stearns. John, a managing director, was with the firm for nearly 20 years. As a Private Client Services broker, his insight, friendship, trustworthiness and warmth were valued by hi
 VOGEL - Charles. Beloved husband of the late Esther Vogel. Father, grandfather, brother and friend. Died suddenly in the company of friends, April 22, 2003. He is survived by three sons and spouses. Jeffrey and Brenda, Carl and Valarie, Peter and Maureen. Grandchildren Michael, Lucas, Sarah
 QUINTANA-Manuel Ignacio. Mass of Christian Burial on Friday, April 25 at 10AM at the Oratory Church at St. Boniface, 111 Willoughby St, Brooklyn NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory to the Cousteau Society or Fairchild Tropical Gardens       
 Abram Bergson, an economist who brought sophisticated analytical tools and a theorist's rigor to the study of the Soviet economy, died on Wednesday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89. For many years economists regarded Professor Bergson, who taught at Harvard, as the dean of Soviet econo
 BLUM-Walter H., on April 23, 2003, beloved husband of Jane, caring father of Joanne and Ellen (Barry), proud grandfather of Jessica Leto and Jill, Cara and Kate Eisenpress. Services private. BLUM-Walter H. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds are deeply
 CAHILL-Anne B. Age 87, of Tappan, New York, formerly of Brooklyn, on Thursday, April 24, 2003. Devoted sister of Michael Cahill and his wife Anna. Also survived by several nieces and nephews. Before retiring Ms. Cahill was a clerk for the New York Times and was a member of the Newspaper Gui
 CLAYDON - WHITE - Leslie. With deepest love and sympathy to David on the loss of his life's partner, Leslie. An incredibly devoted friend to David and to all who were blessed by his presence. Love, Stella       
 JAFFEE - Wilton (Wink), Boulder, CO., died Tuesday, April 22 at the age of 77 of prostate cancer. Wink, formerly of NYC, and graduate of Michigan University, moved to Colorado 35 years ago, settling in Aspen. Mr. Jaffee moved his family to Boulder, Colorado ten years ago to benefit from the
 WARNER-Mortimer, 90, died peacefully in his bed April 23rd, 2003. Loving father of Geoffrey. Chapel services 3:00 PM Sunday at Eternal Light Funeral Chapel, Miami, Florida, 305-948-9900.       
 Robert Blackburn, an artist who founded the influential Printmaking Workshop in New York, died on Monday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 82. Mr. Blackburn, whose parents were from Jamaica, grew up in Harlem during the Depression. He was introduced to printmaking in 
 Sir Bernard Katz, who shared the 1970 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for his work explaining how messages are transmitted between nerves and muscles, died on Sunday. He was 92. He lived in London since just after World War II. Sir Bernard was honored, along with the 
 ARSHAM - Herman David, retired Major of the U.S. Army, on April 24, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Selma, loving father of Jeffrey and Michael, and father-in-law of Evelyn. Adoring grandfather of Alice, Rebecca and Joshua. He will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 9:45am, at ''The Ri
 BICKMANN-Leroy J., 70, of Stamford, CT on April 22, 2003. He leaves his former wife, Dianne Bickmann, his son Leroy Eric Bickmann and wife Katie; grandson Conor and five step granddaughters; sisters Marie, Veronica, Agnes and Eleanor (Jim); brothers William and Joseph. Visiting Saturday and
 DELANEY-Mark Alexander. It is with heartfelt sorrow that the family of Mark Alexander Delaney share with family and friends the sad news of his unexpected death on Tuesday, April 22, 2003. He died suddenly at home at the age of 47. Born in West Hartford, CT, he lived in Lake Hiawatha, NJ, C
 FAVA-Frank. Gone Fishin' Beloved son, brother and friend, passed away on the evening of April 24, 2003. Cause of death was cardiac arrest. He is survived by his mother, Beverly Morse, his sister, Darice Lang, his stepfather John H. Morse Jr., his brother-in-law Joseph Lang, his god-daughter
 KAZAN-Henry (Haroutiun) Sarkis Khanzadian was born in Zara, Armenia on September 9, 1906. He emigrated to the United States in January 1914, with his mother and two sisters (his third sister was born in New York City). He graduated from Eastside Evening High School, New York University and 
 KNOWLES - Robert Win throp, Jr. (Bobby). Age 88. Died April 14, 2003. A perennial amateur golf champion in the mid 20th Century. He competed in the 1951 and 1952 Masters Tournament. In 1949, he captured the New England Amateur, followed by the French Amateur in 1950. He was also a three tim
 MARKS-Edwin Saul. On April 24, 2003 at home surrounded by Nancy, his childhood sweetheart and loving wife of 53 years and his daughters, Carolyn Marks Blackwood, Linda Marks Katz and Constance Marks Miller; his sons-in-law, Greg Quinn, Richard Katz and James Miller. Loving grandfather of hi
 VAUGHAN-Thomas F. Age 72, died Thursday, April 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Donna, devoted father of Cathy, Thomas, Margaret and father-in-law to Edward. Loving grandfather of Brian, Christian, McKenzie and Elizabeth. Dear brother of Catherine Gallagher, Mildred Bugge and Jack and Robert (V
 Dr. Charles Alderson Janeway Jr., a renowned immunobiologist at the Yale medical school often referred to as the father of the understanding of innate immunity, the human body's first line of defense against infection, died on April 12 at his home in New Haven. He was 60. The cause 
 Dr. Robert W. Wilkins, a researcher who helped establish the dangers of high blood pressure and introduced some of the first drug therapies to treat it, died at his home in Newburyport, Mass., on April 9. He was 96. Dr. Wilkins, who received the prestigious Albert Lasker Award in 19
 Dr. John Francis Kullberg, president of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals from 1978 to 1991, died on Sunday in Rockville, Md. He was 64 and lived in Germantown, Md. The cause was cancer, the Humane Society of the United States said in announcing his death
 Michael Stillman, a founder of Monitor Records, a label known for its remarkably eclectic musical mix, died on April 15 at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 87. Mr. Stillman and his partner, Rose Rubin, founded Monitor in 1956 to fill a gap they perceived in the music available to the
 BEIER-Michael P. Of Manhattan (formerly of Massapequa), on April 25, 2003, of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease), at the age of 39. He was a loving husband and father to his wife Theresa and his children Carly, 6, and Dustin, 4. Beloved son of Robert and Kathleen. Dear brother of Bob, Susan, Joseph
 BLUM-Walter H. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Walter H. Blum. A former president and chairman of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds, a UJA-Federation beneficiary agency, and a cherished friend of UJA-Federation, Mr. Blum will be re
 BRENNER-Frederick. Age 85, on April 25, 2003, of Greensboro, NC, formerly of New York City. Beloved husband (for 56 years) of Suzette Eisenberg Brenner; cherished father of Jayne Rande Gottlieb and Linda Joy Betheil; adored grandfather (''Poppi'') of Lauren and Melissa Betheil; father-in-la
 FAVA-Frank. Gone Fishin' Beloved son, brother and friend, passed away on the evening of April 24, 2003. Cause of death was cardiac arrest. He is survived by his mother, Beverly Morse, his sister, Darice Lang, his stepfather John H. Morse Jr., his brother-in-law Joseph Lang, his god-daughter
 FERMAN-Symon. On April 25, 2003, in New York, after a battle with Parkinson's Disease. Darling husband of Eda. Beloved father of Gaby and Gary, and loving grandfather of Allison, Brian, Jonathan, Michael and Oliver. Symon gave to numerous philanthropic Jewish and medical causes and to the G
 FRITZ-William, on April 24, at his residence in New York City. A retired employee of Commercial Investment Trust of Manhattan. Beloved husband of Beatrice Chapman Fritz; dear brother of Mrs. Tina Gawenus, North Norwich, NY, Miss Agnes Fritz and Mrs. Helen Sheldon, both of Watervliet, NY. Al
 GERSHENSON-Ira. Passed away April 25. Retired Principal at George Westinghouse High School. Survived by his mother Rose Gershenson, his daughter Deborah Radice and son-in-law Phillip Radice, his son Adam, his daughter Melissa, his son Spencer and his grandchildren James and Caitlin. Service
 LIEBRADER-Myron Lawrence, Passed Away, January 31, 2003, age 73, after intrepid battle with leukemia. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. Son of Sol and Estelle Liebrader, beloved husband of 13 years to the late Barbara. Survived by his son Andrew, daughter Donna, son-in-law Kevin and grandson Brandon. 
 MARKS-Edwin Saul. On April 24, 2003 at home surrounded by Nancy, his childhood sweetheart and loving wife of 53 years and his daughters, Carolyn Marks Blackwood, Linda Marks Katz and Constance Marks Miller; his sons-in-law, Greg Quinn, Richard Katz and James Miller. Loving grandfather of hi
 PHILLIPS-Nathan. 90, died on April 22, 2003, at his home in Westport, CT. Beloved husband of Sylvia, cherished father of Joan Phillips and Shelly Metz and Laurie and Roy Witkin. Loving grandfather of Mark and Deborah Phillips, Neil Phillips, Nicole and Brian Keldsen, Scott Witkin, Josh and 
 RUBIN-Stanley. Of Belle Harbor, NY, on April 22, 2003. Childhood sweetheart and cherished husband of Thelma, Dear Toby, Love of His Life, married on Pearl Harbor Day. Devoted father of April (John) Hooper. Adored and treasured Daddy of Jill and special son-in-law Mitchell Goldschmidt. Lovin
 SANCHEZ-Emil M. Attorney. It is with deep sadness that the family of Emil M. Sanchez shares with friends the news of his death on April 26, 2003. Beloved father and distinguished member of the legal community. He will be greatly missed. Services will be held at Leo F. Kearns, Woodhaven Blvd
 SCHRECK - Michael. SAR Academy, its officers, Board of Directors, faculty, staff and students are profoundly saddened by the untimely passing of our executive director. We deeply grieve the loss of this dear and immensely capable man, a quintessential ''mensch,'' whose contribution to the l
 SPITZER-Norman, M.D. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Devoted father of Dr. Eric (Silvia), Ellen Zamir and Judith. Loving grandfather of Ari and Ben Zamir, Karen and Daniel Spitzer. Brother of Edwin and the late Wilbur. Graduated Cornell in 1934 and NYU Medical School in 1938. Served as a flight
 VanALEN-William L., on April 24, in Palm Beach, Florida, at 95. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Kent VanAlen for 71 years and beloved father of William L. VanAlen Jr., James L. VanAlen II, and Cassandra Ludington. Grandfather of nine and great-grandfather of seven, who all admired and adored h
 VOLLBEHR-Robert Jules, Colonel. A USAF Retired Colonel. Air commander expired from natural causes on April 16, 2003 at the age of 88. Colonel Robert Vollbehr was a native of Amsterdam in the Netherlands, proud of being a US citizen and served in the Air Force for 28 years. He was an assista
 WILOWSKI - Chauncey E. Age 89, noted attorney and civic leader, died April 7, 2003, at his Long Island home. Husband of Stephana for 54 years, father of Christiann Wilowski and Lorraine Gibson, father-in-law of Grant H. Gibson, and grandfather of Alicia, Blake and Chad. He was loved by all 
 Ray Hicks, who lived on a remote mountain and became famous among folklorists by telling stories older than America about ghosts, witches and a trickster named Jack, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Boone, N.C. He was 80. The cause was prostate cancer, his wife, Rosa, said.    
 Sir Graham Stuart Thomas, whose passionate knowledge and love of plants placed him among the world's greatest gardeners, died on April 16, in a hospital near his home in Woking, England. He was 94. Born in Cambridge in 1909, Sir Graham was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 
 Mike Larrabee, who overcame injury and illness to become a double gold medalist in track at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics, when he was six weeks away from his 31st birthday, died last Tuesday at his home in Santa Maria, Calif. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his family said. At a
 BEIER-Michael P. Of Manhattan (formerly of Massapequa), on April 25, 2003, of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease), at the age of 39. He was a loving husband and father to his wife Theresa and his children Carly, 6, and Dustin, 4. Beloved son of Robert and Kathleen. Dear brother of Bob, Susan, Joseph
 DUMLER-Egon. The Directors and Shareholders of Carnegie House Tenants Corporation mourn the passing of Egon Dumler, Director and Chairman for 25 years, on April 26. We will miss his wisdom, his humor, his elegance, and his courtesy. Our heartfelt sympathies to Gretchen and his children, Joh
 FERMAN-Symon. The entire Roisen and Kwiat family mourns the passing of Alice Roisen's beloved brother, Symon Ferman, who passed away April 25th after a prolonged illness. He will be missed by all of us; Alice, Jacques and Shelley Roisen, Rita and Sheldon Kwiat and their children, Steven, Mi
 FORCHHEIMER - Paul L. Died peacefully at age 86, on Saturday, April 26, 2003. Husband of the late Gerda, brother and brother-in-law of Igo and Marion, father and father-in-law of Mark, Shelley, Linda, Robert, Elliot, Joan, Claire and George. Grandfather of Adam, Scott, Daniel, Jeremy, Kenne
 GOLDBERG-Martin. It is with profound sorrow that the Mishpacha Zalman Society records the death of Founding member Martin Goldberg. Uncle Marty, together with his beloved wife of blessed memory Aunt Jeanette, was a stalwart of our organization for more than half a century. He was a man of r
 MARKS-Edwin Saul. On April 24, 2003 at home surrounded by Nancy, his childhood sweetheart and loving wife of 53 years and his daughters, Carolyn Marks Blackwood, Linda Marks Katz and Constance Marks Miller; his sons-in-law, Greg Quinn, Richard Katz and James Miller. Loving grandfather of hi
 MORIN-Stephen P. Age 53, of Warner, NH, died on Saturday, April 26th. He was a former reporter for the Wall Street Journal and the Providence Journal, and Connecticut correspondent for the New York Times. He operated Runaway Farm LLC in Warner with his wife, Claire L. Talbot, since 1996. In
 NETTER-Kurt Fred. Died unexpectedly, April 26th, after complications from surgery. He leaves behind his devoted, adoring wife of 60 years Alice, his sister, Ilse Nelson, his children Nadine and Peter Levy, Susan and Ronald Netter and Alfred Netter and Judith Marks. He had five grandchildren
 RONES-Milton. Of Eastchester, NY, and Delray Beach, FL, passed away on April 26, 2003. Beloved husband of Eleanor for 57 years. Devoted father of Linda and Kenneth, Gary, Glenn and Susan. Adored grandfather, ''Poppy'' of Gena, Brett, Jody, Rachel, Amanda and Stacy. Brother of Ruth Bornstein
 RUBIN-Gary. The Officers, Board of Directors, and Staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the sudden and untimely loss of our esteemed colleague, Gary Rubin, Managing Director of UJA-Federation's Commission on the Jewish People. A professional with exceptional gifts, he w
 SHIELDS-Francis A. Age 61, a resident of Palm Beach, FL, died after a protracted illness on Friday, April, 25, 2003. Born in New York, he was the son of the late Francis Xavier Shields and the late Princess Marina Torlonia of Rome, Italy. Beloved husband of Didi, devoted father of Brooke, M
 SPITZER-Norman, M.D. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Devoted father of Dr. Eric (Silvia), Ellen Zamir and Judith. Loving grandfather of Ari and Ben Zamir, Karen and Daniel Spitzer. Brother of Edwin and the late Wilbur. Graduated Cornell in 1934 and NYU Medical School in 1938. Served as a flight
 STONE-Peter. Husband of Mary. Brother of David. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made in his name to the Robin Hood Foundation or the Pulmonary Fibrosis Foundation. STONE-Peter. The Dramatists Guild of America mourns the 
 MODELL-Michael S. On April 28, 2001, our precious, beloved son Michael lost his battle against Crohn's disease and cancer. On this, the second anniversary of his death, the entire Modell family laments his tragic and untimely passing with profound sorrow. He was our talisman of hope, our we
 Peter Stone, whose sophisticated wit in films like ''Charade'' and zeal for historical accuracy in Broadway musicals like ''1776'' helped him become the first writer to win an Oscar, an Emmy and a Tony, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and in Amagansett, o
 Robert Randolph, a designer of sets and lighting for Broadway productions for three decades, died on March 2 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, said Charles Guthrie, his companion. Mr. Randolph, who also did some costume designs, desi
 Edwin Saul Marks, an investment banker and supporter of Lincoln Center as well as medical and other cultural institutions, died on Thursday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Marks headed Carl Marks & Company, the firm found
 BEIER-Michael Patrick. We are profoundly saddened by the death of our Board member and dear friend, Michael Beier. We send our sincere condolences to his beloved wife, Theresa, his children, Carly and Dustin, to his family and countless friends, and to colleagues at Credit Suisse First Bost
 DUMLER-Egon. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Egon Dumler, on April 26, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Ex
 FLINTOFT-Gerald J. On April 22, 2003 at age 68. Beloved husband of Ann Flintoft. Devoted father of Gerald, Thomas and Mark. Loving grandfather to his four grandchildren. Adored brother of Mary Collings and Richard Flintoft. Admired attorney at Pennie & Edmonds LLP where he dedicated himself
 GOROVOY - Hyman, of Brooklyn, NY on Sunday April 27, 2003. As a very young child Hy immigrated from Poland with his family to America and has lived in Brooklyn ever since. An Army Veteran and Philanthropist along with his brothers, he built many apartment complexes throughout Northern, NJ a
 MARKS-Edwin S. The directors, officers, associates and staff of Carl Marks & Co, and its affiliated companies mourn the passing of our beloved and admired friend, colleague and chairman. Edwin Marks was a man of keen intelligence, unshakable integrity and great compassion for his fellow hum
 NAYER-Herman R. (Hank) died in his sleep on April 23, 2003 in Oakland, California. He was 93 years old and had been living at St. Paul's Towers in Oakland, CA for the past 16 years. A graduate of Yale, class of '30, and of the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia, class of '34, Dr
 NETTER-Kurt Fred. The officers, Board of Directors, & staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Fred Netter, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. A former UJA - Federation Board member, Mr. Netter advocated tirelessly on behalf of Holocaust survivors, & provided outstanding 
 RONES - Milton. Delaire Country Club mourns the loss of their esteemed member, Milton Rones, and extends their sincere sympathy to his beloved wife, Eleanor, and his extended family. Jack Lipsey, President       
 RUBIN-Gary. The American Jewish Committee mourns with deep sorrow the passing of Gary Rubin, our dear colleague and friend. Gary's boundless passion for Jewish life and his lifelong commitment to helping others, no matter their faith or ethnicity, is a continuing inspiration to all in the J
 SCHANZER - Ethel. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of Ethel Schanzer, wife of our fellow member Ben Schanzer, and extend sincere condolences to him and his family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 SHERMAN-Irving, on April 28th. Dearest husband of Etty. Devoted father of Sandy Nathanson and Jill Goldstein. Loving brother of Ann Sugarman and Robert. Adored grandfather of Howard, Ilene, Elizabeth, and Scott Goldstein, and Morgan and Emily Nathanson. Respected father-in-law of Allen and 
 STONE-Peter. We mourn the loss of Peter Stone, brilliant writer, great wit, good friend and co-founder of Guild Hall's Academy of the Arts, and recipient of its Lifetime Achievement Award in Literary Arts. Melville Straus, Chairman of the Board Edward Bleier, Chairman, Academy of the Arts R
 WHITLEY-Edward D., CSP. On April 26, 2003 at age 78. Born in Newburyport, Massachusetts on September 8, 1924. He attended Currier Grade School in Newburyport, MA, and Newburyport & Governor Dummer Academy High Schools before going to the Paulist Fathers Juniorate in 1948. Taking summer cour
 Chris Borgen, a former New York City police detective who was a news reporter on WCBS-TV in New York for nearly 30 years, died on Friday in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 76. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, CBS announced. Mr. Borgen joined the station in 1966. His forte was breaki
 David Sievert Lavender, a Colorado rancher and miner who turned to writing 60 years ago and became one of the most prolific chroniclers of the American West, died on Saturday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 93. Mr. Lavender's first book was ''One Man's West'' (Doubleday, 1943), h
 BEIER-Michael P. The Department of Neurology and the Eleanor and Lou Gehrig MDA/ALS Research Center at Columbia University Health Sciences mourn the passing of Michael Beier. He was a rare individual who faced his illness and increasing disability with resolve and determination, and served 
 BIENSTOCK-Ben. Founder and inspiration of the Short Hill Caterers. The beloved husband of Liesl for 56 years. Devoted father of Michael (Reesa) Bienstock and Diane (Morton) Setchen. Loving grandfather of Marissa Rachel, Adam, Todd Bienstock and Jason A. Setchen. Services today, 1:30 PM, Pla
 CALDER-Kenneth, M.D. We honor the memory of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Kenneth Calder, a highly respected and loved member of The New York Psychoanalytic Society. He was a Training and Supervising Analyst, and past president of The New York Psychoanalytic Institute, and was a strong influe
 CAVALIERI - Corrado A., passed away on April 25th, 2003 at the age of 96. Loving father of Vivian and devoted grandfather of Adam and Ariella Grosse, he leaves them, his son-in-law, Daniel Grosse, his sister, Renata, his brother, Roger, nephews, a niece and grand-nieces. He was dearly loved
 DISHMAN-Arthur, M.D. On April 28, 2003. Associated with Lenox Hill, NYU, Beth Israel, Eye & Ear Infirmary and Bellevue for many years. Also served as Bloomingdale Stores Chief Physician in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Aida. Services Thursday 11AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65th St. 
 DUMLER-Egon. I started writing this when I heard that the hospice people were taking good care of you, easing your way, just as you eased all our ways, through wills, lawsuits, questions, and you eased our way through them, with a kind word, a gentle joke, and always the time to say words o
 FARMANFARMAIAN Prince Manucher. 26 April 2003, in Caracas, Venezuela. Beloved father of Roxane, Alexander, and Teymour. Loving grandfather of Kian, Teymour, Daria and Cyrus. Mentor and partner of Abbas Rostamizadeh and his dear wife, Magaly. Friends and family throughout the world will miss
 GOLDIN-Frederick H. The Board of Governors and members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Frederick H. Goldin. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Richard J. Bornstein, Pres. Leon Fassler, Secretary       
 HILLER - Milton (Mickey). On April 29. Beloved husband of Claire, loving father of Robin and Michael and Merryl and Steven, cherished grandfather of Brian, Amanda, Brittany, Brett and Jordan, dear brother of Morris and Jack Hiller. We mourn the loss of a great man. His compassion and love o
 KELLY-John M. My dear brother died April 28, 2003 at age 51. His funeral will take place Friday, May 2, 10:30AM in Saint Bartholomew's Church, Park Ave at 51 St., N.Y.C. Against the terrible paralysis of the disease, John opposed a beautiful cheerfulness, a foretaste of Heaven. ''In balance
 LEEGANT-Harold A., DDS, age 94, died April 28 in Southbury, CT. He was the husband of Claire Schindler Leegant. He had a dental practice on Fifth Avenue in New York City. Services are private.       
 MARKS - Edwin S. The Trustees, Faculty, Students and Staff of Poly Prep Country Day School mourn the passing of Edwin Saul Marks, beloved alumnus, Class of 1944, whose generous support led to the construction of The Nancy and Edwin Marks Center for Science & Technology in 2000. Throughout h
 PEKOLA-Joseph Stephen, 83, of Carteret, NJ on April 28, 2003. Husband of the late Helen (nee Medvetz), father of the late Stephen J. He is survived by children Yvonne Zawadzki (Stanley) and the very Reverend David J. Pekola, Pastor of Assumption RC Church, Hackettstown, NJ; grandchildren Dr
 SHERMAN-Irving, on April 28th. Dearest husband of Etty. Devoted father of Sandy Nathanson and Jill Goldstein. Loving brother of Ann Sugarman and Robert. Adored grandfather of Howard, Ilene, Elizabeth, and Scott Goldstein, and Morgan and Emily Nathanson. Respected father-in-law of Allen and 
