 Sir Alf Ramsey, who in 1966 coached England to its only World Cup soccer championship, died Wednesday in a nursing home near his home in Ipswich. He was 79 and had been confined to the nursing home, said Pat Godbolt, his former secretary with the Ipswich Town team, since a stroke du
 Gian-Carlo Rota, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology whose work bridged the upper realms of mathematics and philosophy, died on April 19 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 66. The cause was heart failure, M.I.T. officials said. Dr. Rota dealt with ab
 Mark D. Weiser, a computer scientist and the chief technology officer of the Xerox Corporation's legendary Palo Alto Research Center, died on Tuesday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 46. He died of liver failure resulting from cancer, his wife, Vicky Reich, said. In S
 Teodoro Garcia, a reluctant Mexican lieutenant who battled the rebel Pancho Villa in the Mexican Revolution and is believed to be the last soldier in the army of the dictator Porfirio Diaz, died last Saturday in a retirement home in Texas City, Tex. He was 110. ''He was the last Fed
 Charles Gordon, a son of immigrants who became the general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the founding author of the 20-volume treatise Immigration Law and Procedure, died on Wednesday at Bay Medical Center in Panama City, Fla. He was 93 and lived in Potomac, Md.,
 Dr. Heinz L. Fraenkel-Conrat, whose research in biochemistry allowed scientists to peer into the innermost workings of viruses, died on April 10 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Oakland, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Berkeley. Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat, a professor emeritus at the U
 Lieut. Col. Stanley T. Adams, who as an Army sergeant won the Medal of Honor in the Korean War for leading a counterattack that left more than 50 enemy soldiers dead in hand-to-hand combat, died on April 19 at the Oregon Veterans Home in The Dalles, Ore. He was 76. Colonel Adams, wh
 Walter S. Salant, who as a graduate student in the 1930's and later as a Government and private economist helped infuse the revolutionary teachings of John Maynard Keynes into Washington policy deliberations, died on Friday at a hospice near his home in Washington. He was 87. After 
 Judge Walter J. Cummings, who at 36 became the youngest Solicitor General of the United States and went on to be one of the longest-serving Federal appellate court judges in the nation's history, died on April 24 at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 82 and lived in Chicago. 
 William Brown, an architectural administrator who supervised the creation of 20th-century landmarks like Lever House on Park Avenue in Manhattan and the city of Oak Ridge, Tenn., died on April 4 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 89. Working for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the a
 Bert Remsen, a stage, screen and television actor for some 50 years, died on April 22 at his home in California's San Fernando Valley. He was 74. Mr. Remsen, who was born in Glen Cove, N.Y., began his career at the Neighborhood Playhouse, where he studied with Sanford Meisner. He we
 Charles R. Dawson, a longtime chemistry professor at Columbia University who played the leading role in the discovery of the toxic compounds in poison ivy, died on Wednesday in a hospital in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 88 and lived in Wolfeboro. Dr. Dawson taught at Columbia from 1939 un
 Charles Warren, a British physician who tried three times to scale Mount Everest in the 1930's, died on March 30 in his home in Essex, England. He was 92. Dr. Warren brought the sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay to the attention of British mountaineers. Mr. Norgay made history in 1953 whe
 Jere W. Lord Jr., a retired cardiovascular surgeon, a professor of clinical surgery and a former president of the New York Heart Association, died on April 20 at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 88. Dr. Lord retired from surgery in 1983. He was a professor at the New York University
 Erik Johan Friis, an editor and publisher whose work was well known to Scandinavian-American readers, died on April 5 at his home in Montvale, N.J. He was 86. Mr. Friis was director of publications and editor of The American-Scandinavian Review from 1951 to 1975. He also edited The 
 George McKinley, a New York lawyer who was active in the Citizens Union and other civic groups, died April 15 at St. Luke's Hospital in Newburgh, N.Y. He was 95 and lived in New Windsor, N.Y. Mr. McKinley, who was born in New York City, retired in 1978 as a partner in the office of 
 The Rev. John Brown Macnab, pastor emeritus of the First Presbyterian Church in Greenwich Village, died April 20 at a hospital in Rehoboth, Del. He was 77 and had lived at a church manse in Brooklyn Heights before he retired in 1992 and moved to Rehoboth Beach, Del. He suffered a br
 The Rev. Dr. James William Kennedy, a former rector of the Church of the Ascension in Greenwich Village, died April 21 at a retirement community in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 93. He served at the historic Episcopal church on Fifth Avenue and 10th Street from 1955 to 1964. During that t
 James H. Whittam, the president and chief executive of the Shaklee Companies, died April 15 at Stanford University Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. Dr. Whittam, a resident of Hillsborough, Calif., was 49. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Sibylle. Dr. Whittam rejoin
 Neal J. Hardy, who headed the Federal Housing Administration in the Kennedy Administration, died on April 15 at My Country Home Adult Congregate Living Facility in Osteen, Fla. He was 84 and had previously lived in Orange City, Fla. Mr. Hardy was an executive of the National Associa
 Oliver Reed, whose red-faced exuberance brought earthiness to film appearances as varied as a swashbuckling musketeer, a brutal Dickensian burglar and his best-known role as a coal mine owner's son in Ken Russell's version of ''Women in Love,'' died on Sunday while filming a movie in Malta.
 Rudolph Stewart, for 29 years a  behind-the-scenes presence at Carnegie Hall, died in New York on  Wednesday. He as 74. A spokesman for Carnegie Hall said the cause was liver cancer. Mr. Stewart began at Carnegie Hall in 1970 as an usher, moving to the job of head usher and 
 Stanley D. Canter, who advised many of the world's best-known corporations on marketing and advertising matters during a career that spanned more than 40 years, died April 24 at the Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Hospital in New York City, according to a longtime business associate. Th
 T. Justin Moore Jr., a retired chief executive of the Virginia Power Company and a founder of an economic development group that sought to break down racial barriers in Richmond, died of cancer on April 24 at his home in Richmond, a family spokesman said. He was 74. Mr. Moore was as
 Dane N. Bath, a former picture editor of The New York Times and The Chicago Tribune, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived in Parsippany, N.J. The causes were cardiac arrest and complications related to diabetes, his wife, Patricia, said.        
 Ernest A. Gross, a diplomat and an international lawyer who was closely involved in issues of war and peace from the Korean War to decolonization and disarmament, died on Sunday at his home in New York City. He was 92. Mr. Gross, whose life as a diplomat began in 1931, when he joine
 Joe Adcock, the Milwaukee Braves' strapping first baseman who put on some of baseball's most remarkable displays of power hitting and broke up the longest no-hit game in major league history, died yesterday at his home in Coushatta, La. He was 71. He had Alzheimer's disease, his fam
 Roderick Thorp, a former private investigator whose best-selling crime novels became successful films, was found dead on Wednesday  at his home in Oxnard, Calif. He was 62. He appeared to have died three days earlier after a heart attack, said a son, Roderick Thorp 3d of Camarillo, 
 Ronald Alley, a longtime staff member of the Tate Gallery in London and its first Keeper of the Modern Collection, died on April 25 in London. He was 73. His family did not announce the cause of death. After studying art history at the Courtauld Institute in London, Mr. Alle
 Harry L. Kavetas, the chief financial officer who helped lead the Eastman Kodak Company through a huge financial upheaval that involved sweeping job cuts over the last few years, died yesterday at his home in Rochester. He was 61. The cause was an apparent heart attack, the company 
 Tibor Kalman, a graphic designer whose innovative ideas about art and society helped change the way a generation of designers and their clients viewed the world, died on Sunday at the Hyatt Dorado Hotel near San Juan, P.R. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kalman decided to spen
 William Woodward 3d, whose society family was known as much for its violent deaths as for its wealth, died Sunday on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after a 14-story plunge from his apartment. He was 54. A police official said that Mr. Woodward had been under psychiatric care and n
 Dr. J. John Sepkoski Jr., a professor and paleontologist at the University of Chicago who conducted important research illuminating large-scale patterns of evolution in the fossil record, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 50. The cause was heart failure related to high
 Paul James Henry, a New York lawyer who served as chairman of the New York Health and Hospitals Corporation during the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, died Saturday at his home in Grasmere, N.Y. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Henry was a direct
 Tony Barlow, a lawyer, banker and philanthropist who became active in religious efforts to encourage socially responsible investing, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center-Petrie Division in lower Manhattan. He was 62 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause w
 Sir William Hunter McCrea, a British astronomer and mathematician who as a young researcher advanced the knowledge of the Sun's composition and more recently set forth his own theories on the formation of planetary systems and galaxies, died April 25. He was 94 and lived in Lewes, Sussex.  
 Americo Paredes, a writer, folklorist and one of the founders of the Chicano studies movement in the 1960's, died on Wednesday at Specialty Hospital in Austin, Tex. He was 83. At the time of his death Mr. Paredes was professor emeritus of English and anthropology at the University o
 Daniel Hoffman, a former New York City judge in Criminal Court, died on April 23 at his home in Tamarac, Fla. He was 91. Judge Hoffman had been active in the Republican Party, and in 1937, Mayor Fiorella H. La Guardia named him a city marshal, a job he held until 1960, when he becam
 Louis R. Ross, a former vice chairman of the Ford Motor Company who oversaw the introduction in 1985 of the Ford Taurus, which became one of its most successful cars and helped the company recover from low profits and quality problems, died on Sunday in Naples, Fla. He was 67. Neith
 Robert P. Bergman, director of the Cleveland Museum of Art since 1993 and a nationally recognized spokesman for arts institutions, died yesterday at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He would have been 54 on May 17. Mr. Bergman died after a two-week illness with a rare blood disord
 Dr. Stanley Lawrence Rosenthal, a former Government meteorologist who advanced the technology of tracking the formation and movements of hurricanes, died on April 24 at his home in Miami. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Dr. Rosenthal spent 33 yea
 Leon Hess, who took over his family's bankrupt fuel-oil business during the Depression and built it into a major petroleum company, but was perhaps best known as the steadfast owner of the long-foundering New York Jets football team, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He wa
 Dirk Bogarde, who transformed himself from Britain's top matinee idol into a serious actor at the age of 40 and became an international star, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported, quoting a nephew, Brock Van den
 Donald Stewart, a screenwriter who won an Academy Award for ''Missing,'' the 1982 Constantin Costa-Gavras film, died on April 28 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan. Mr. Stewart and Mr. Costa-Gavras were co-writers of the screenpl
 Maj. John Howard, the commander of glider-borne British infantrymen who seized the strategically vital Pegasus Bridge in the first battle of the D-Day invasion of Normandy, died Wednesday in a hospital in Surrey, England. He was 86 and had lived in Burford, near Oxford. Under cover 
 Leon Barzin, musical director of the New York City Ballet in the 1940's and 50's and the head of the National Orchestra Association for 36 years, died April 29 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 98. Mr. Barzin played ''a quiet but prominent part in the musical life of the country,''
 Lewis L. Salton, who built a business selling what he liked to call ''oddball appliances,'' died on Wednesday after a brief illness, his wife, Edith, said last week. He was 87. Mr. Salton was born in Krakow, Poland, in 1911 and received a Master of Science degree in engineering in B
 Dennis Riley, a prolific composer with an extensive catalog of works published by C. F. Peters, died on Thursday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 55. The cause was AIDS, said his daughter Alice. Mr. Riley was born in Los Angeles and grew up in Lakewood, Colo. He rec
 Dirk Bogarde, who transformed himself from Britain's top matinee idol into a serious actor at the age of 40 and became an international star, died on Saturday at his home in London. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported, quoting a nephew, Brock Van d
 Dr. David Fox, a physicist who was blacklisted and indicted for contempt when he refused to testify fully before the House Un-American Activities Committee at the dawn of what would become known as the McCarthy era, died last Monday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was
 Irving (Fishbones) Stevens, who became a folk hero in Maine for his tales of hobo life in the 1930's and his success developing a foul-smelling insect repellent called Irving's Fly Dope, died at the home of his sister Dorothy Glazier in Pittsfield, Me., on Tuesday. He was 88 years old.     
 James J. Heslin, a former director of the New-York Historical Society, died on April 30 at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. Dr. Heslin, who had a master's degree in library science from Columbia University and a doctorate in American history from Boston Univers
 Man Bun Lee, sometimes known as the ''Mayor of Chinatown'' for his many public activities, including his long service as president of the Chinatown Consolidated Benevolent Association, the Manhattan neighborhood's largest civic organization, died at New York University Downtown Hospital on 
 Edwin L. Dale Jr., a former economics reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times who later explained the intricacies of supply-side economics as a budget spokesman in the Reagan Administration, died today at the Washington Hospice. He was 75 and was visiting in Washingt
 Gilbert Millstein, who wrote an early review of Jack Kerouac's novel ''On the Road'' that helped establish the fame of both Kerouac and the Beat Generation, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney
 Shel Silverstein, whose goofy, gross and macabre yet always enchanting poetry for children sold more than 14 million books, was found dead yesterday morning at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 67. Neither the time nor cause of death had been determined yesterday afternoon, said She
 Stewart Klein, a music, film and theater critic for Channel 5 in New York since 1967, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Lee, N.J. He was 66. The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Barbara, said. Mr. Klein won three local Emmy awards for his work, including one for a review i
 Dr. James J. Humes, one of two Navy pathologists who performed the autopsy on President John F. Kennedy, died on Thursday at his home in Ponte Vedra, Fla. He was 74. The cause was lung cancer, his son James Jr. said. Dr. Humes and his colleague, Dr. J. Thornton Boswell, conc
 Norman Weissman, a former president of the Ruder Finn public relations agency in New York, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74 years old. The cause of death was cancer, according to a statement from Norman Weissman Inc., the firm he most recently headed, in Manhattan.
 Sir Edward Penley Abraham, a British biochemist and Oxford University professor who contributed greatly to the development of today's medical arsenal of antibiotics, died on Sunday at his home in Oxford. He was 85. He left his mark on biology, chemistry and medicine. Worldwide paten
 Eqbal Ahmad, a political scientist and peace activist who as one of the Harrisburg 7 was accused of planning to abduct Henry A. Kissinger to protest the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday in Islamabad, Pakistan. He was 67 and lived in Islamabad. Mr. Ahmad died when his heart failed after 
 Heinz Werner Berendes, a pediatrician and medical epidemiologist for the National Institutes of Health who pioneered studies of birth-control safety and the care of newborns, died on May 6 at the N. I. H. Clinical Center in suburban Maryland. He was 74 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The
 Saul Steinberg, the metaphysically minded artist and cartoonist and brooding doodler whose drawings appeared in The New Yorker for more than half a century, elevating comic illustration to fine art, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Steinberg was compared to Pi
 Gene Sarazen, whose stylish, effective swing and dogged demeanor made him one of the finest golfers of the 1920's and 30's, died yesterday in Naples, Fla. He was 97. Sarazen died at Naples Community Hospital from complications of pneumonia, said his lawyer, John Cardillo. Hi
 Leon Thomas, a jazz singer known for his bellowing glottal-stop style in free jazz of the 1970's, died on Saturday at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx. He was 61 and lived in the Bronx. The cause was heart failure as a result of leukemia, Karen Dagneau, his tour manager, said. 
 Sheik Abdelaziz bin Baz, the pillar of Saudi Arabia's religious establishment and a crucial ally of the royal family, died today in Taif. He was believed to be in his late 80's. The cause was cancer, Saudi religious officials said. Blind since his teens, and frail in his dec
 Frank Stanton, an entrepreneur and real estate investor who developed an early videocassette, died last Sunday at his home in Water Mill, on Long Island. He was 78. He died of complications from Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Domna C. Stanton. Mr. Stanton conducted most
 P. Scott Makela, a graphic and multimedia designer whose audacious experiments helped create the esthetic of new computer-age media, died on May 7 at St. Joseph's Mercy Hospital in Pontiac, Mich. He was 39 and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. The cause was a rare infection of the ep
 James W. Nance, a retired Navy rear admiral who took on a late-career job as the chief aide to his old boyhood friend Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, died on Tuesday at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in McLean, Va. Marc A. Thiessen, the
 Terence H. Benbow, a lawyer and longtime community leader on Staten Island who was also the dean of the Quinnipiac College Law School, died in his sleep on May 4 at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 69 years old. Mr. Benbow was born on June 4, 1929, in Wyandotte, Mich. He earned a
 Thomas C. Cochran, an authority on the economic history of the United States who liked to chronicle how economics and business had touched his fellow citizens' lives, died on May 2 at the Quadrangle retirement center in Haverford, Pa. He was 97. Professor Cochran, a prolific writer,
 C. Earl Leslie, a retired White House artist whose decorative lettering embellished thousands of Government documents and proclamations issued by Presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Dwight D. Eisenhower, died on May 6 at Washington House, a retirement home in Alexandria, Va. He was 91.
 Charles K. McWhorter, an aide to Vice President Richard M. Nixon and later a lawyer for A.T.&T., died on Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston after being injured on May 1 in a car accident on Cape Cod. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan and Los Angeles. Mr. McWhorter wa
 Geoffrey Wigoder, a broadcaster, scholar and editor of Judaica, died on April 9 in Jerusalem. He was 76. The cause was a brain hemorrhage after a fall, said Andre Balog, a friend and colleague. Mr. Wigoder was born in Leeds, England, and earned degrees in medieval Jewish his
 Sir Ian Fraser, a British surgeon whose medical team took penicillin to the wounded on the battlefields of World War II and established that it effectively checked their blood infections, died Tuesday. He was 98 and lived in Belfast. Dr. Fraser was a member of the Royal Army Medical
 Marvin S. Winter, a Manhattan real estate developer for more than 50 years, died on Friday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and had homes in Manhattan and Delray Beach, Fla. The cause of death was heart failure, said his son James, of Rye Brook, N.Y. M
 Asrat Woldeyes, a British-trained Ethiopian doctor who was a leader of opposition to his country's present Government, died on Friday in the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was in his early 70's. The causes were complications from a heart ailment and g
 Vern Countryman, an expert on commercial law, particularly bankruptcy, died on May 2 at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Cambridge. Mr. Countryman, a retired professor at Harvard Law School, was born in Roundup, Mont., on May 13, 1917. He rece
 Kyriacos Demetriou, a master barber whose old-fashioned barber shop on the Upper West Side of Manhattan was such an authentic butterfly in amber that it went into the Museum of the City of New York when he retired in 1996, died on Friday. He was 80. His son-in-law, Paul Galietti, sa
 Robert Goldman, the winner of four world bridge titles, died of a heart attack on Sunday. He was 60 and lived in Highland Village, Tex. He died on the way to a Lewisville, Tex., hospital, said his stepdaughter, Renee DeSaye of Atlanta. He had just returned from a tournament in Boiss
 Bill Ballantine, an artist and writer who peppered his work with images of circus life, died on Friday at the Pine Nursing Home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 88 and lived in Sarasota. Mr. Ballantine's fascination with the circus was instilled as a young boy, when he traipsed after his fa
 Michael F. Wettach, an equestrian, restaurant owner and trustee of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, died on Sunday in Baltimore. He was 66 and lived in Monkton, Md. The cause was a heart attack, said his half-brother, Peter Lawson-Johnston of Princeton, N.J. Mr. Wettach
 Porter Warrington Heaps, an organist and composer whose work on the popular Hammond organ transformed a crude-sounding electronic keyboard instrument into one that could approximate the sounds and colors of larger pipe organs, died on May 3 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 92.       
 Robert L. Turner, who pushed Eastern Air Lines to create its shuttle between Boston and New York in 1961, died on Saturday in Columbus, N.C. He was 89. He had suffered a series of strokes in recent months, according to his son. Mr. Turner had a lifelong fascination with flyi
 Alvin John Rockwell, a prominent San Francisco lawyer who as a Government attorney helped to draft the legal system for a democratic postwar Germany, died yesterday in San Francisco, where he lived. He was 90. In 1945 he was posted to Berlin as legal adviser to Gen. Lucius D. Clay a
 Augustus Pablo, a widely influential reggae producer, died on Tuesday at University Hospital in Kingston, Jamaica. He was 46 and lived in the hills outside Kingston. The cause was myasthenia gravis, a nerve disorder, said his brother, Garth Swaby. Mr. Pablo, whose original n
 Henry Jones, a Tony Award-winning character actor who had a long career on Broadway, in films and on television, died on Monday at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 86 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Jones had a face as plain as his name. As his daughter, Jocelyn 
 Jerome Jay Wolken, a biophysicist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh who delved into the mysteries of sight and light and invented a lens system that gave sight to some legally blind people, died on May 10 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 82. Dr. Wolken's Light Concentrati
 Stephen S. Weisglass, the executive managing director of Conifer Securities, a San Francisco investment banking firm, died on Sunday at his home in Miami. He was 70. The cause of death was lung cancer, according to a statement from the Owen Cheatham Foundation, a nonprofit organizat
 Gerald J. Lieberman, a former Stanford University provost and an expert in statistics and operations research, died on Tuesday at his home on the Stanford campus in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 73. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, according to a stat
 James Broughton, a poet and filmmaker, died on Monday at his home in Port Townsend, Wash. He was 85. Long a prominent member of the avant-garde artistic community in San Francisco, Mr. Broughton once described himself as ''an Anglican by birth, a Taoist by nature, a Dionysian in spi
 Lembit Oll, an Estonian chess grandmaster who was preparing to take part in a qualifying competition for the International Chess Federation's world championship match this summer in Las Vegas, Nev., died on Sunday in a plunge from a window of his fourth-floor apartment in Tallinn, the Eston
 Sheldon Judson, an archeologist and a retired professor of geosciences at Princeton University, died yesterday in his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 80. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to a statement released by the university. Dr. Judson was born on Oct. 18, 1918
 Dan Sanders, a former executive vice president of the New York State United Teachers and a principal architect of the teacher labor movement in the state, died on Thursday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 69 and had lived in Putnam Valley, N.Y. He died of 
 William Alfred, the author of ''Hogan's Goat'' and other plays and a longtime professor at Harvard University, died on Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 76. Although Mr. Alfred had a distinguished career as an educator, it was as a playwright that he achieved his great
 Christos G. Bastis, a restaurateur and art collector whose Sea Fare restaurants brought a sophisticated Mediterranean understanding of seafood to New York, died Friday night at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach. At a time when the typical A
 Davis Allen, a prolific designer of modern business interiors and furniture who spent 40 years at the firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, died on May 13 at Broward General Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Fort Lauderdale. During his career, Mr. Allen had majo
 Robert Carr Doyle, a media executive whose work in television's early years ranged from charming President Truman to pondering what President Eisenhower had really meant to say in his responses at press conferences, died on Friday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 78 and lived in Chevy 
 Sir Robert Rhodes James, a British historian and biographer who had been a Conservative member of Parliament and an investigator of Kurt Waldheim's war record, died on May 20. He was 66 and lived near Sandy, in Bedfordshire, England. Sir Robert had been sick for some time, a Conserv
 James Blades, a popular British percussionist whose most frequently heard work was the ''V-for-victory'' Morse code signal broadcast by the BBC during World War II, died on Wednesday at his home in Cheam, in Surrey, England. He was 97. He also created the sound of the gong at the be
 Kenneth Donald Glancy, a former president of RCA Records who helped foster the careers of such disparate artists as Woody Herman, Pierre Boulez, David Bowie and Cleo Laine, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and had homes in Manhattan and Cagnes-sur-Mer, in southe
 Norman Rossington, a veteran British character actor whose career embraced films, theater and television, died on Friday in a hospital in Manchester, England. He was 70. The cause was cancer, according to his agent, Marilyn Collis. Mr. Rossington was born in Liverpool, began
 Anthony P. Rios, a veteran political organizer among Hispanic Californians, died on May 19 at Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Baldwin Park, a suburb of Los Angeles. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Rios joined Saul Alinsky, the Chicago sociologist and organizer, in founding the
 Lyndon Waldo Lyon, a horticulturist who was turned into an African violet fanatic by a single leaf and who played a major role in making the African violet one of the country's favorite houseplants, died last Wednesday at Little Falls Hospital in Little Falls, N.Y. He was 94. Mr. Ly
 John Burton Tigrett, a Tennessee entrepreneur who made a fortune on things like the Glub-Glub drinking duck novelty, befriended financiers like Sir James Goldsmith and musicians like Isaac Hayes and advised politicians like Vice President Al Gore, died on May 18 in a hotel room in Washingto
 Paul Sacher, a conductor, champion of contemporary music and arts patron, whose family fortune, based on a controlling share of the Roche pharmaceutical empire, amounted to an estimated $13 billion, died yesterday after a long illness. He was 93. Mr. Sacher was staking out a signifi
 Ramon Rubial, a veteran of the Spanish Civil War who spent nearly 20 years in prison under the Franco regime, died Monday at his home in Bilbao. He was 92. Mr. Rubial, widely respected as the living memory of Spanish Socialism, still held the honorary title of president of the Spani
 Vice Adm. John T. Hayward, a weapons expert who helped develop the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, in the closing days of World War II, died on Sunday at his home in Atlantic Beach, Fla. He was 90. Admiral Hayward, who was promoted to vice admiral in 1959 and retired in 1968
 Chester L. Migden, a labor lawyer whose work for the Screen Actors Guild helped to establish the principle of paying actors for repeat showings of the television programs, feature films and commercials they appear in -- a practice that produces nearly $1 billion today -- died on Sunday at h
 Waldo Semon, a chemist and inventor who brought about the age of vinyl, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Hudson, Ohio. He was 100. Though the material he developed has spread and oozed into ubiquitous use, with 44 billion pounds a year being produced to provide clothing, shelter,
 Donald Sur, a composer and musicologist, died on Monday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Sur's best-known work was ''The Slavery Documents,'' an oratorio commissioned by the Canata Singers of Cambridge, 
 Ed Peterson, an automotive service and parts supplier who invented an alarm system that beeps a warning when trucks and other heavy machinery are backing up, died on Wednesday at his home in Boise, Idaho. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, his son, Mark, said. Mr. Pet
 Frank A. Gunther, a radio pioneer  who helped create shortwave, two-way and FM systems, died on Monday at Bon Securos Hospital in Venice, Fla. He was 91 and lived in New York and Nokomis, Fla. Mr. Gunther often worked with the military, as well as with police and fire departments, d
 George Nikolas Perazich, a retired engineer and industrial economist who directed United Nations' relief efforts in Yugoslavia after World War II, died on Wednesday at the Hospice of Washington. He was 94 and lived in Washington. In a career spanning nearly 50 years in this country 
 Robert Fred Mozley, professor emeritus of physics at Stanford University and an expert on nuclear arms control, died on Monday at Stanford Hospital. He was 82 and lived in Menlo Park, Calif., and Southport Island, Me. The cause was complications from surgery, the university said.   
 John Edwin Adams, a California neurosurgeon and pioneer in the use of radioisotopes to study brain functions and disorders, died on May 18 at the medical center of the University of California at San Francisco. He was 85. Dr. Adams was the former Guggenheim Professor of Neurological
 Jerome L. Greene, a lawyer, real estate investor and benefactor of Columbia Law School, Montefiore Medical Center and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Thursday at his residence in the Carlyle Hotel in Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Greene, who was a founding member of 
 Richard Kobler, an Austrian-born electronics engineer who devised the first ''talking typewriter'' and scores of other contrivances after being resettled in New York 60 years ago by the actress Gloria Swanson, died on May 8 at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 90 and live
 D. Robert Yarnall Jr., who helped build a local Pennsylvania manufacturing company into a multinational corporation, died on Thursday at the Unitarian Universalist House nursing home in the Germantown section of Philadelphia. He was 74 and had lived most of his life in the city. The
 Joao Carlos de Oliveira, a Brazilian sports hero who held the world triple jump record for a decade, died Saturday at Beneficencia Portuguesa Hospital in Sao Paulo, Brazil. He was 45. De Oliveira, who lived in Pindamonhangaba, in Sao Paulo state, was suffering from pneumonia, hepati
 Comdr. Rupert P. Lonsdale, who became the only British captain to surrender a warship on the high seas during World War II when he gave up his crippled submarine to save the lives of its 59 crewmen, died on  April 25 in Bournemouth, England. He was 93. In the early morning of May 4,
 Standish Forde Medina Jr., a leading trial lawyer who made a name for himself by resolving disputes so that clients could avoid trial, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Medina, who had residences in Manhattan, Westhampton, N.Y., and Washington, Conn., w
