 Arthur Melin, the co-founder of Wham-O, which introduced fads like the Hula-Hoop and lasting diversions like the Frisbee, died on Friday at a care center in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 77 and had lived in Irvine, Calif. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Suzy, said. 
 Clifford Possum, who painted some of the masterpieces of Australian aboriginal art, died on June 21 in Alice Springs in the Australian desert, an ancient landscape he depicted in the mythical terms central to his heritage. He was about 70, art historians said. In accordance with tri
 CHERVIN-Louis E. 92, beloved husband of Charlotte, predeceased by his beloved first wife Isabelle, mother of his children Sandra, Peter and Barbara, and grandfather to Jessica. Private service at Sharon Mem. Park, Mass.       
 FOULK-Samuel S. We regret to announce the death from a heart attack of Samuel S. Foulk on June 19 in San Francisco. Sam was a Managing Director at PricewaterhouseCoopers and enjoyed a national reputation as a tax consultant, particularly in the field of Mergers and Acquisitions, where he wa
 GROTE-William J., MD. 84, of Ridgefield, CT, formerly of Crestwood, NY. Retired medical staff member of Morrisania, Union and Our Lady of Mercy Hospitals. A US Army veteran serving as a medical officer and a past member of the Annunciation Church of Crestwood. Predeceased by his wife Martha
 KENNEDY-David O'D. Died on June 27, 2002 at the age of 95. He was president of Kentile Floors, served as Mayor of the Village of Centre Island from 1946-59, Commodore of Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club from 1973-75. He was also a member of the NY Yacht Club, The Union Club, and was instrum
 LAKOW-Samuel. Formerly of River Vale, NJ, died at home on June 28, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL, after a long, courageous battle against cancer. Born and raised in Brooklyn, NY, Samuel was a graduate of Parsons School of Design and New York University. An owner and principal of Lakow-Weiss Plann
 MAHER-Thomas F. Of Garden City, NY, passed peacefully in his sleep on June 29, 2002. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Susan and Joseph Festa, Eileen and Wayne Browning, Michael and Jean Maher, Christine and Ken Rathgeber and Patricia Maher. Cherished grandfather of 12 grandchil
 McDONOUGH - James Pa trick. 82, of Jackson Heights, NY, died peacefully surrounded by his children after a brief illness. Devoted husband of Joan (nee Day) to whom he was married for 56 years. Brother of Mary Gargiulo. Loving father of James, Michael, Kevin, Mary and John. Cherished grandfa
 O'HARA-Clifford Bradley. 84, died June 26, 2002, of complications from a systemic staphylococcus infection. Born January 2, 1918, survived by his wife of 61 years, Helen Hanford O'Hara; a brother, John Brangs O'Hara; his children, Hanford, Helen Elizabeth, Susan Bradley, Jane Loving, and Cl
 OSHRY-Harold L. The officers and staff of Miller Advertising Agency, Inc., are saddened by the loss of our client, friend, colleague, inspiration and mentor of over half a century and extend deepest sympathy to his wife Claire, his son Michael, and daughters Meryl and Suzanne, and his grand
 VISCONTI-Martin. 61, of East Windsor, NJ died Friday June 28, 2002 at Morristown Memorial Hospital, Morristown, NJ. He was born in Bronx, NY and lived in South Brunswick, NJ for 10 years before moving to East Windsor 19 years ago. He was a Senior Vice President with Veronis, Suhler & Steven
 Timothy White, the editor in chief of Billboard magazine, died on Thursday afternoon at the magazine's Manhattan offices. He was 50, lived in Boston and commuted to New York City. The cause was apparently a heart attack, according to billboard.com. Mr. White, who always wore
 Berl Senofsky, a prize-winning violinist who became a respected music teacher, died on June 21 at his home in Baltimore. He was 77. The cause was complications from heart and lung disease, his family said. Born in Philadelphia to Russian immigrant parents, Mr. Senofsky studied at the Juilli
 Frederick O'R. Hayes, New York City's budget director for four years in the early, optimistic days of the administration of John V. Lindsay, died on Sunday in Utica, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Utica. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, his family said. Mr. Hayes came to 
 ANDERSON-Edmund L. Of Manhattan and Quogue, NY, on June 29th, died at his summer home. He is survived by his wife, Joan Bauer Uttal Anderson; 3 children, Wendy Swindell, Linda A. Rost and Wesson S. Anderson; two stepsons, Bro Uttal and Linn Uttal; seven grandchildren & a great grandson. A m
 ARNOW-Warren. Beloved husband of Linda, devoted father of Helene and Steven Scott and Jason Arnow, and adored grandfather of Justin. He fought a valiant battle. Services on Tuesday, July 2, 2002, at 12:30 at GuttermanMusicant, Hackensack, NJ.       
 BRESKIN-Lester. Born in New York City, died on Saturday, June 29. Survived and fiercely loved by his wife of 62 years, Pearl, his son Daniel and daughter-in-law Myrna, his daughter Lisa Rudikoff and grandsons Nicholas, John, Peter, and Andrew.       
 CONSTANTINER-Dr. Jaime. The Friends of Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center deeply mourn the passing away of Dr. Jaime Constantiner, a benefactor and leader who greatly contributed to the development of our Medical Center. Our condolences to the bereaved family and his many friends all over the
 DOSWELL - Morris Lafay ette, 84, Labor Leader and Activist, Vice President Emeritus of District 65, United Automobile Workers of America, AFL-CIO, died at his Bronx home of cardiac arrest, June 27. A labor leader for 42 years, he recruited blacks into the union and was instrumental in union
 GUIDI-Marcello. The Board and staff of The Howard Gilman Foundation mourn the death of Marcello Guidi, one of Howard Gilman's oldest friends, a former President of the Foundation and a beloved mentor and colleague. After his distinguished diplomatic career as Italian Ambassador to Ethiopia,
 HOENSHELL-R. Craig. Former President of American Express International and also served as former Chairman and CEO of Avis, died at his home on July 1, 2002 of lung cancer at the age of 58 with his wife Lisa by his side. Lisa, his beloved wife of 14 years, was his champion, best friend and l
 JAMES - Christopher Leopole. The James family deeply mourns the passing of Mr. Christopher Leopole James, who resided at Maypen Clarendon, Jamaica, West Indies. He was passed on Wednesday evening, June 26, 2002 at 7PM. Mr. James was born in Rock River, Jamaica in 1922. At the time of his de
 LANE-John H., 89. Of Scarsdale, NY, on June 28, 2002. Beloved husband of Ilse. Devoted father of Peter and his wife Cathy, Gary and his wife Cathy and Bonnie and her husband Stuart Gellis. Also survived by his six grandchildren.       
 McDONOUGH - James Pa trick. 82, of Jackson Heights, NY, died peacefully surrounded by his children after a brief illness. Devoted husband of Joan (nee Day) to whom he was married for 56 years. Brother of Mary Gargiulo. Loving father of James, Michael, Kevin, Mary and John. Cherished grandfa
 OSHRY-Harold. ''Words without deeds are nothing. One must show by way of example.'' David Ben-Gurion said these words and Harold Oshry lived them. We remember our dear friend Harold Oshry, past president and honorary chairman, American Associates, BenGurion University of the Negev and vice 
 RABINOVE-Samuel. 1923-2002. ''The First Amendment guarantee of free exercise of religion means freedom from governmental impediment. It was never intended to mean freedom from private expense, any more than the constitutional guarantee of freedom of the press entitles indigent would-be news
 SCHWARZ-Joseph. An extraordinarily devoted and loyal Trustee of the Optometric Center of New York, Joe Schwarz symbolized friendship and dedication to the scientific and professional mission of the SUNY College of Optometry from its inception. His remarkable insites and keen appreciation of
 VERGARI-Bohn C. Of Bronxville, died on June 30 2002 at age 52. He is survived by his wife Jane D'Apice Vergari, sons Bohn, Jr. and Carl Andrew, his parents the Honorable Carl A. Vergari, and Genevieve Lindemann Vergari, and his sister Jeanne Vergari Martinelli. Calling hours at The Fred H. 
 COHEN-Elias A. Although 50 years have passed since our beloved founder, Elias A. Cohen passed away on July 2, 1952, he is still remembered with love and reverence by the thousands of boys and girls who were privileged to come to his Tranquillity Farm and Camp for a few fun-filled weeks each
 Pete Gray, who became a major league outfielder despite the loss of his right arm in a childhood accident, appearing with the St. Louis Browns for a single season during World War II, died Sunday at a nursing home in Sheatown, Pa. He was 87. Playing in 77 games for the 1945 Browns -
 Adm. Robert L. J. Long, who led the commission that found senior military officials responsible for security lapses in the Beirut barracks attack that killed 241 marines in 1983, died on Thursday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 82 and lived in Annapolis, Md.    
 Elliott Wilk, a state judge who mixed a leftist outlook, shrewd analysis and a dry wit to ride herd over cases from Woody Allen's custody battle to the rights of the homeless, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was brain cancer, said his wife, Betty Levins
 Harold L. Oshry, an early proponent of automobile leasing in the United States, died on June 29 at his home in Tamarac, Fla. He was 84. In 1955, Mr. Oshry set up the All-State Auto Leasing Corporation and developed it into one of the earliest car-leasing companies in the country. Th
 Max Schneier, whose daughter's manic-depressive illness inspired him to wage a relentless crusade for better treatment for the mentally ill, died on June 17 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Lauderhill, Fla., and Rawdon, Quebec. Mr. Schneier, a layman who knew little a
 CONSTANTINER-Dr. Jaime. The Board and staff of YIVO mourn the passing of Dr. Jaime Constantiner of Mexico City, a true friend to Yiddish and yidishkayt. His love for Jewish life, his East European ancestry and his commitment to preserve and teach the history and culture through programs at 
 DeROSA-Thomas R. A long term resident of Larchmont, NY, passed away on July 1, 2002 of complications from lung cancer. Mr. deRosa was born on October 16, 1947 to Donald J. and Louise Spinelli deRosa, of New Rochelle, New York. He is survived by his wife, Deborah Greene deRosa, and their dau
 DEUTSCH-Professor Martin. The faculty of The Steinhardt School of Education of New York University mourns the death of our esteemed colleague Martin Deutsch, Professor Emeritus. Professor Deutsch was an eminent psychologist, early leader of research and evaluation of pioneering pre-school p
 FLUSSER-Richard. July 1, 2002. Opera impresario and founder of the After Dinner Opera Company, died in his sleep, at home. Beloved husband of Beth Flusser, Richard was father of Jennifer-jo Moyer and Matthew, fatherin-law to Daniel and Kathleen, beloved grandfather of Padraig and Myles, and
 GORALNIK-Israel. The Officers, Boards of Directors and staff of American ORT and Women's American ORT deeply mourn the passing of Israel Goralnik, former Director-General of ORT Israel. During his tenure he contributed enormously to the development of vocational education in Israel, creatin
 OSHRY-Harold. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Harold Oshry, a cherished friend, major supporter, and founding leader of Long Island's South Shore Division. Harold was a member of UJA-Federation's Council of Overs
 REINHOLD-Meyer. Age 92, died July 1, 2002. Meyer Reinhold, a major figure in Greek and Roman classical studies, died in Nashville after a brief illness. Reinhold was born in Brooklyn, NY. A graduate of City College with a Ph.D. from Columbia University, Reinhold served on the faculties of B
 SOBEL-Ely. On July 1, 2002. He was 71 years old. Beloved husband of Rosalie, cherished and adored father of Ira and Beth, devoted and loved stepfather of Alyssa and Jeffrey Fried, kindhearted and loving grandfather of Ashley, Justin, Adriana, Willie, Jessica, Jake, Jamie, Ali and Jonathan, 
 VERGARI - Bohn C. Our hearts are saddened by the untimely death of Bohn. Our love and sympathy to our very special friends, Carl and Genevieve, his beloved wife Jane and devoted sister Jeanne, and the entire family. Rita, Philip Rosen and family.       
 WEISEN-Stephen Edward. 48, died on July 1, 2002. Beloved husband of Barbara (Friedman). Devoted father of Daniel and Carly. Cherished son of Cecile and Irving. Adored brother of Sheila Hoffer and Gail Gossert. ''My darling husband, our dear Daddy, you were stolen from us much too soon. You 
 WILK-Elliott. On July 2. Compassionate judge, iconoclast, peace maker. Survived by his wife Betty Levinson, sons Daniel and David Levinson Wilk, sister Sondra Wilk. Memorial service Monday July 8, 3PM, ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, gifts to NYC Chapter
 Richard Flusser, an opera director and music teacher whose diminutive After Dinner Opera Company was a mainstay in the margins of the opera world for more than 50 years, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. From its founding in 1949, the After Dinner Opera worked on a
 Harold Haley Haskin, a marine biologist who championed the cause of the oyster, died June 23 at his home in Cape May Court House, N.J., on the banks of his beloved Delaware Bay. He was 87. He was best known for his co-discovery of MSX, the parasite that nearly wiped out the once luc
 BRADY-Michael John. Michael John Brady died on July 3rd, 2002. He was born September 12, 1935 in NY, NY to the late John and Margaret Brady. He was educated at Harren High School in NY and SUNY - Stony Brook, where he graduated with a B.S. in Engineering and a M.S. in Materials Science. Mic
 JORDAN-Joseph. Of Manhattan on July 1. Born in NYC 96 years ago. Beloved father of Vance Jordan and Jill Jordan Spangler, both of Manhattan. He is also survived by twin grandsons, Ian and Noel Spangler. The first American Director of Boys' Towns of Italy and American Relief for Italy, later
 OSHRAY-Harold L. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Claire, his son Michael and his entire family. We mourn the passing of a good and dear friend. Dick & Hohn Maltz       
 REINHOLD-Meyer. Age 92, died on July 1, 2002. Meyer Reinhold, a major figure in Greek and Roman classical studies, died in Nashville after a brief illness. Reinhold was born in Brooklyn, New York. A graduate of City College with a Ph.D. from Columbia University, Reinhold served on the facul
 STUBENHAUS-Jerome. At age 77. Loving husband of Cheri. Devoted father of James (Beth) and Ellen (Andie). Adored grandfather of Jonathan and Sam. Dear brother of the late Harold and Martin Stubenhaus. Services Friday, July 5, 1 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza (o
 VERGARI-Bohn. The partners and employees of Herbert Mines Associates mourn the passing of Bohn Vergari, husband of our partner, Jane Vergari. Our deepest condolences to his children, Bohn Jr. and Carl Andrew, and to his parents and family members. Bohn was a warm, supportive and talented hu
 WILK-Elliott. The staff, the management and the Board of Directors of The Legal Aid Society mourn the loss of our beloved friend. As a Legal Aid Attorney in the Criminal Defense Division during the late 1960s and early 1970s, Elliott was a passionate advocate for his clients. Thereafter, he
 ZIEGELMEIER - Robert A. Succumbed July 2, 2002 after elective surgery at New York University Medical Center. He was a graduate of Hotchkiss School and Columbia University. He served in the Intelligence Division of the Army in World War II. Owner and Chief Officer of Haggerty Millwork Corpor
 Ray Brown, whose feather-fingered, guitar-like virtuosity on the bass carried him to the summits of jazz peformance for a half century, died on Tuesday in Indianapolis. He was 75. He had failed to show up for a 9:15 p.m. show at a club there and was found dead in his hotel room, app
 Dr. Martin Deutsch, a pioneer in the preschool education of disadvantaged children who helped form the national Head Start program, died on June 26 at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 76. The cause was renal failure, said his wife, Dr. Cynthia Deutsch. In 1962, Martin
 Frederic Mohs, a surgeon at the University of Wisconsin who invented a surgical technique for treating certain skin cancers that bears his name and is practiced worldwide, died on Monday at his home in Madison. He was 92. Mohs surgery, originally also known as chemosurgery, allows t
 Meyer Reinhold, an author and scholar of classical studies, died on Monday in Nashville. He was 92. Dr. Reinhold, who was born in Brooklyn, was a firm believer in popularizing the classics by teaching them in translation. In so doing, he parted company with more traditional scholars
 BROWN-Earle. We respected him, as did so many, for his humanity, his music, and his tenacity. Although his music has not yet been as widely appreciated as it deserves, Earle's legacy will live on, continuing to inspire all who come after him. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife, Susa
 CARDACI-Kenneth M. Age 11, of Hillsdale, NJ, due to an accident while riding a scooter by his home. He was to enter sixth grade at the George White School in Hillsdale. Surviving are his parents Mark and Carolyn Cardaci, sister Valerie, paternal grand parents Anthony and Leah Cardaci of Nep
 DeROSA-Thomas R. A long term resident of Larchmont, NY, passed away on July 1, 2002 of complications from lung cancer. Mr. deRosa was born on October 16, 1947 to Donald J. and Louise Spinelli deRosa, of New Rochelle, New York. He is survived by his wife, Deborah Greene deRosa, and their dau
 GOLDBERG-Paul D., M.D. Beloved husband of Carol. Cherished father of Jamie and Charles. Devoted fatherin-law of Sheryl. Loving friend of Teddy. Dear brother of Joseph. Caring brother-inlaw of Jacqueline and Jay Ferkin, Jill & Jacob Gordon, nieces, nephews, grand nieces and grand nephew. Lov
 ITRI-Dr. Francis V., 93. Of Westfield, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, Wednesday, July 3, 2002. Predeceased by his wife Mary Nitti Ihri in 1985. Survived by a daughter, Dr. Loretta M. Itri, two grandsons, Raymond F. and Eric R. Warrell and a sister, Teresa A. Itri. Visitation on Friday, July 
 LIEBERMAN-Theodore H. (Herbert), at age 72. Loving husband of Marjorie. Beloved brother of Gloria and brotherin-law of Stephen and Naomi. Cherished uncle of Geri and Roy, Andrew and Susan, Judy and Ray, Scott and Barbara. Adored by many great nieces and nephews. Retired from Grey Advertisin
 OSHRAY-Harold L. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Claire, his son Michael and his entire family. We mourn the passing of a good and dear friend. Dick & Hohn Maltz       
 ROMANO - Ralph William, MD, died suddenly Sunday, June 30 at his country home in Austerlitz, NY. Dr. Romano was a highly respected radiation oncologist at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport and was also in private practice in Southport, CT. He is survived by his wife Alexandra Nicho
 WILK-Elliott. We will sorely miss Elliott's friendship and his iconoclastic views, playful sardonic wit and his unfailing advocacy for human rights here and abroad. Our love and thoughts are with Betty, David and Daniel. Laurel and Gene Eisner WILK-Elliott. The Legal Aide Alumni Ass
 ZIEGELMEIER - Robert A. Succumbed July 2, 2002 after elective surgery at New York University Medical Center. He was a graduate of Hotchkiss School and Columbia University. He served in the Intelligence Division of the Army in World War II. Owner and Chief Officer of Haggerty Millwork Corpor
 Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis Jr., who broke color barriers and shattered racial myths as the commander of the Tuskegee Airmen, the pioneering black fighter pilots of World War II, died on July 4. He was 89. He died at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, an Air Force spokesm
 John Thompson, a professor, literary critic and poet, died on June 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Thompson was a professor of English at the State University of New York at Stony Brook from 1965 to 1983, and was the author of an acclaimed text on the history of British 
 Lionel Bernstein, a white South African Communist and anti-apartheid campaigner who stood trial for treason in 1963 alongside Nelson Mandela and seven others, died June 23 in his home in the English village of Kidlington in Oxfordshire. He was 82. The so-called Rivonia trial, named 
 BERLIN-Emanuel. Passed away on June 26th, 2002, at the age of 81. He is survived by Doris, his beloved wife of fifty-three years, his children, Michael and Patricia to whom he was devoted, his adored grandson, Alexander, his sister, Rosetta, and other family members. Emanuel was self employ
 CONSTANTINER-Dr. Jaime. Our heartfelt condolences go out to good sons, Roberto, Arturo, Teddy, Victor, Leon and their families. A generous and loyal Zionist. A good and warm friend of ours. We will miss him. Charly Dimston Todd Dimston       
 GOLDBERG-Dr. Paul. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Rabbi Mordecai Waxman Steven Markowitz, President       
 GOLDBERG-Paul D., M.D. Beloved husband of Carol. Cherished father of Jamie and Charles. Devoted fatherin-law of Sheryl. Loving friend of Teddy. Dear brother of Joseph. Caring brother-inlaw of Jacqueline and Jay Ferkin, Jill & Jacob Gordon, nieces, nephews, grand nieces and grand nephew. Lov
 ITRI-Dr. Francis V., 93. Of Westfield, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, Wednesday, July 3, 2002. Predeceased by his wife Mary Nitti Ihri in 1985. Survived by a daughter, Dr. Loretta M. Itri Warrell, a son John F. Itri, two grandsons, Raymond F. and Eric R. Warrell and a sister, Teresa A. Itri.
 KEMPER-James S. Jr. The Board of Governors, Trustees, staff and members of Boys & Girls Clubs of America wish to express their profound sorrow over the passing of Mr. James S. Kemper Jr., member of our Board of Governors and a lifelong advocate for children. Mr. Kemper devoted 40 years of s
 LAFFER-Henry. May 30, 1916-July 4, 2002. Native New Yorker and long time resident of Coney Island and short time resident of Pleasanton, CA. Passed away in his sleep. He is survived by his wife Sonia, son Bernard and grandchildren Cody and Karly. Donations in his memory can be made to any o
 LIEBERMAN-Theodore H. (Herbert), at age 72. Loving husband of Marjorie. Beloved brother of Gloria and brotherin-law of Stephen and Naomi. Cherished uncle of Geri and Roy, Andrew and Susan, Judy and Ray, Scott and Barbara. Adored by many great nieces and nephews. Retired from Grey Advertisin
 Suliman S. Olayan, a Saudi billionaire whose energy, insurance and consumer goods businesses as well as investments made him one of the richest men in the world, died Thursday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. His primary residence was in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, but he a
 Ted Williams, the tempestuous slugger of the Boston Red Sox who was the last man to bat .400 and was perhaps the greatest hitter in baseball history, died yesterday in Inverness, Fla. He was 83. Williams was in cardiac arrest when he was brought to Citrus County Memorial Hospital fr
 Gen. Benjamin O. Davis Jr., who broke color barriers and shattered racial myths as the commander of the Tuskegee Airmen, the pioneering black fighter pilots of World War II, died on Thursday. He was 89. He died at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, an Air Force spokesman
 James Lee, an unsuccessful actor who found his calling as a writer for the stage, screen and television, died on Tuesday at a Santa Monica, Calif., nursing home. He was 79 and lived in Brentwood, Calif. The cause was heart failure and emphysema, said his daughter, Megan Copeskey of 
 John Frankenheimer, one of the foremost directors of the 1960's with classic films like ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' ''Seven Days in May,'' ''Birdman of Alcatraz'' and ''The Train,'' died of a massive stroke today from complications after spinal surgery. He was 72. Mr. Frankenheime
 Kenneth Koch, a poet of the New York School whose work combined the sardonic wit of a borscht-belt comic, the erotic whimsy of a Surrealist painter and the gritty wisdom of a scared young soldier, died yesterday after a long battle with leukemia at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. 
 BORTEN-Walter. Beloved husband of Phyllis, passed on peacefully at home on July 2 at the age of 84. Devoted father of Barbara Jonas and Kathleen Fuhr, son-in-law, Howard, and grandchildren, Jennifer, Kenneth and Nicole. Graduated Yale Class of 1939. Past Master of his Masonic Lodge and Nati
 BYER-Samuel. President of the Board of Directors of the Workmen's Circle MultiCare Center since 1987. He will always be remembered for the strength of his leadership. He was truly a man of greatness with a vision for the future of the Workmen's Circle MultiCare Center. His extraordinary ded
 COHEN - Theodore Marks (Teddy). 75, died June 29, 2002. Beloved son of the late Schmule and Eva Marks Cohen, loving brother of Robert M. and Michael Marks and sisters-in-law Zipty and Cantor Bette, devoted uncle of Margot and Daniel, caring friend of Eileen Reichel. His sweet soul will be r
 CONSTANTINER-Dr. Jaime. Film Forum expresses deepest sympathy to Leon Constantiner and his brothers on the passing of their dear father, whose family has been so generous to the arts. Karen Cooper, Director CONSTANTINER-Jaime, Dr. Wizo USA mourns the loss of Dr. Jaime Constantiner a
 COWMAN-Irving. Beloved husband of Janet. Loving father of Lacey. Dear brother of Roslyn. Retired, dedicated Art Director at Young and Rubicam for twenty-seven years. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 HITTNER-Charles. 79, of Cranbury, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn. Died Friday, July 5, at Princeton Medical Center, Princeton, NJ. Beloved husband of Marilyn (nee Levittin), devoted father of Jeffrey Hittner of Freehold and Elyse Hittner of Cherry Hill, dear brother of Seymour Hittner of Bayside,
 HOENSHELL-R. Craig. Former President of American Express International who also served as former Chairman and CEO of Avis, died at his home on July 1, 2002 of lung cancer at the age of 58 with his wife Lisa by his side. Lisa, his beloved wife of 14 years, was his champion, best friend and l
 HOLE-Richard W. Age 79, on July 2nd, 2002, of Wayne, Pennsylvania. Survived by his wife of 54 years, Tacey Belden, four children, six grandchildren and one sister. Memorial service will be on July 11 at 11 A.M., at St. David's Church in Wayne, PA.       
 JORDAN-Joseph. Of Manhattan on July 1. Born in NYC 96 years ago. Beloved father of Vance Jordan and Jill Jordan Spangler, both of Manhattan. He is also survived by twin grandsons, Ian and Noel Spangler. The first American Director of Boys' Towns of Italy and American Relief for Italy, later
 KAPLAN-Ben. On June 26, 2002 at the age of 88, after a long life of adventure and public service. A great athlete in his youth, superb golfer, he served in the U.S. Army, 1942 to 1945, landed at Omaha Beach, June 6, 1944, and survived the Battle of the Bulge. In post-war Europe, he served w
 KEMPER-James S. Jr. The Board of Governors, Trustees, staff and members of Boys & Girls Clubs of America wish to express their profound sorrow over the passing of Mr. James S. Kemper Jr., member of our Board of Governors and a lifelong advocate for children. Mr. Kemper devoted 40 years of s
 KOPELMAN-Igor, MD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Igor Kopelman, MD, who was an attending physician in the Department of Surgery at Beth Israel's Singer Division for seventeen years. To his wife, his entir
 LIEBERMAN-Theodore H. (Herbert), at age 72. Loving husband of Marjorie. Beloved brother of Gloria and brotherin-law of Stephen and Naomi. Cherished uncle of Geri and Roy, Andrew and Susan, Judy and Ray, Scott and Barbara. Adored by many great nieces and nephews. Retired from Grey Advertisin
 MINKOFF-Murray. 85 years old, died July 5, 2002. Born in Brooklyn, lived in Marlboro, NJ. He is survived by his wife Muriel, brother Martin (Marcia), children David (Elaine) and Alan (Jane), grandchildren Lauren, Adam and Jessica. Graveside service Sunday, July 7.       
 POMERANTZ - Mordechai (Motke), April 19, 1936-June 27, 2002. Founder of Per Dev Perceptual Development Center in NYC. ''Follow the child and he will show you where he needs to go.'' The staff at PerDev mourns the loss of Motke. He gave the gift of a therapeutic approach that supported holis
 ROMANO - Ralph William, MD, died suddenly Sunday, June 30 at his country home in Austerlitz, NY. Dr. Romano was a highly respected radiation oncologist at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport and was also in private practice in Southport, CT. He is survived by his wife Alexandra Nicho
 RUBEL-Gerald. Our family mourns the loss of ''Red.'' We take comfort knowing he'll resume the lifelong gin rummy game with ''Red'' and Selma Holzman. Our condolences go to his loving wife, Pearl, his sons Bruce and Jeff, and their families. Gail, Charlie and Katie Papelian       
 STUBENHAUS-Jerome. We at Nassau Radiologic Group, P.C., and its affiliated companies, mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, Jerome Stubenhaus. Jerry died on Wednesday, July 3, 2002. He was 77 years of age. Jerry worked with the Nassau Radiologic Group for 50 years and was a key componen
 TIHOR-Jules. Our friend and neighbor at 32 Washington Square West. May his soul rest in peace. The Amelars       
 WEISS - Dr. Samuel M. passed away July 2, 2002, at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Hospital. He was a graduate of NYU Dental School and practiced for 47 years. He is survived by his wife Barbara Weiss, children Drs. David and Jewel Weiss, Barry and Susan Weiss and Gail and Chehab Chehab; a broth
 WILK-Elliott. On July 2. Compassionate judge, iconoclast, peace maker. Survived by his wife Betty Levinson, sons Daniel and David Levinson Wilk, sister Sondra Wilk. Memorial service Monday July 8, 3PM, ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, gifts to NYC Chapter
 Dr. W. Maxwell Cowan, an internationally known neurobiologist and a retired vice president of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, died June 30 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, said the Robert A. Pumphrey Funeral Home in Bethesda, Md. A
 Earle Brown, an innovative experimental composer who allowed performers considerable interpretive freedom, and whose vision of sound as an almost concrete object is often expressed in a form of graphic notation that conveys the importance of time and space in his music, died on Tuesday at h
 John Frankenheimer, one of the foremost directors of the 1960's with classic films like ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' ''Seven Days in May,'' ''Birdman of Alcatraz'' and ''The Train,'' died Saturday of a stroke resulting from complications after spinal surgery. He was 72. Mr. Franken
 Kenneth Koch, a poet of the New York School whose work combined the sardonic wit of a borscht-belt comic, the erotic whimsy of a Surrealist painter and the gritty wisdom of a scared young soldier, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was leukemia. Mr.
 BLITZMAN-Benjamin. Age 87. Beloved husband of the late Sara. Cherished father of Geraldine and the Hon. Jay David Blitzman (Sandra Jaffe). Loving grandfather of Michelle Rose and Hallie. Devoted brother of Rose Lockser. WWII veteran, historian and dedicated CPA. His memory is a blessing for
 FRENCHMAN-Gerald L. 68 years old, son of the late Mildred and Harold Frenchman, loving husband and father of four, died on Saturday after a long and courageous battle with complications following heart surgery this past October. He is survived by his wife Cynthia; his four children (and dau
 GUIDI-Marcello. The Board and staff of the Brooklyn Academy of Music mourn the loss of our dear friend, Marcello Guidi. He was an avid supporter of BAM and all the arts through his work on the board of the Howard Gilman Foundation. We will miss him.       
 KIELL-Norman. July 7, 2002. Husband of Adele. Father of Matthew and Jonathan. Grandfather of Saskia, Marina, Leah and Adam. In accordance with his wishes there will be no funeral or services.       
 KOCH-J. Kenneth. July 6, age 77. Beloved husband of Karen. Loving father of Katherine. Grandfather of Jesse. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to Teachers & Writers Collaborative, 5 Union Sq. West, NYC 10003.       
 MELMAN-Israel J. 82, on July 7, 2002. He will be remembered for his good deeds. He was a giant among men. Of Tamarac, FL, previously of Lexington, MA, and New York. Loved his family. Leaves behind his wife Esther, of almost 59 years, his sons Dr. Martin Melman of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, Dr. D
 O'MEARA-Roger. Of Hampton Bays, NY, on July 6, 2002. Survived by his son, Stephan of Hampton Bays, NY, and his nephew, John O'Meara of North Salem, NY. Reposing at the J.M. O'Connell Funeral Home, 30 Little Plains Road, Southampton, NY, on Wednesday from 2-4 and 7-9 PM. There will be a fune
 WALKER-Benjamin James. Of Airmont, died tragically and innocently at The WorldTrade Center on September 11, 2001. He was 41. Benjamin was born on August 2, 1960, in England, to David Walker and Mary Brown. Benjamin graduated Ashfolt Prep School and St. Edwards College in Oxford, England. On
 WAREHAM-Simon. 82, a longtime resident of the Hudson River Valley and decorated WWII Naval Officer, died July 2, after a long battle with myasthenia gravis. Predeceased by his wife of 48 years, Barbara. Survived by second wife, Joan Searle, daughter Barbara Kavanagh of Greenwich, CT, son Ra
 WILK-Elliott. He set the bar high with his compassion and sense of justice, his commitment and fighting spirit, his wit and fierce intellect, and most of all, his deep friendship. We will miss him always. San Francisco Bay Area Friends WILK-Hon. Elliott. We are deeply saddened by th
 GORMAN-Kieran. Mullinabreena Co. SLIGO & Yonkers New York. Kieran's wife Anne, sons Barry, Gavin and Kieran, his mother Anne, brothers Eamon, Micheal, and sister Anne Marie and extended family members would like to thank most sincerely our relatives, neighbors and friends for everything the
 John Mosler, a former chairman and chief executive of the Mosler Safe Company, which made vaults used for guarding the nation's wealth at Fort Knox and protecting the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights in Washington, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital i
 ARNOLD-Justin B. (Joe). July 7, peacefully. Former CEO of Paul Uhlich & Company. He is survived by his devoted admiring family: Bernice (Susie), wife; Ken and Doug, sons; Carme Calderer and Jeanne Amster, daughters-in-law; Clara, Ali, and Arden, grandchildren; Phyllis and Herb Schulman, sis
 BROWN-Earle. Earle Brown was not only one of our great composers but an outstanding leader in the new music community. As a conductor, musical thinker, and as former president of the Board of the American Music Center, Earle Brown's contributions to the field will continue to resonate with 
 BYER-Samuel. June 26, 1923 to July 5, 2002. President, Board of Directors, Workmen's Circle MultiCare Center, Vice President International Ladies Garment Workers Union, General Manager/ Secretary Treasurer of Dress Joint Board (Local 89-22-1) and has served on the boards of the Jewish Labor
 FERBER-Russell. December 31, 1980 to July 6, 2002. Adored son of David Ferber and Dorothy Jordon, beloved brother of Jordon, loving grandson of Sydelle Jordon, nephew of Lucie (Jordon) and Steve Kass, David and Madelyn Jordon and Marcia Hirtenstein; loved by Van Frederick and cousins Glenn 
 FRENCHMAN-Gerald L. 68 years old, loving husband and father of four, died on Saturday after a long and courageous battle with complications following heart surgery this past October. He is survived by his wife Cynthia; his four children Peter, Robert, Kenneth, and Jill; his sister Harriet; 
 GIMPLE-Morris. After fighting in the Aleutians, he began a successful coin meter operating business. Later he owned and operated Gilbert's Hotel in South Fallsburg, NY. He is survived by his daughter Fredda and his long time companion and business partner Ann Gilbert.       
 GOLDBERG-Paul, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. Paul Goldberg. Dr Goldberg was affiliated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Department of Urology for many years. He also did his internship and residency at Maimonides. He will be so
 GREENFIELD-Harvey. The employees and Board of Directors of the Citizens State Bank, Sealy, TX are saddened by the passing of Harvey Greenfield, who was one of our shareholders. Mr. Greenfield was our good friend and we will always remember and appreciate the loyal support and guidance that 
 HAIGHT-David L. Of Briarcliff Manor, died July 7, 2002, at home surrounded by his family. In 1949 he founded Haggerty Millwork Corporation in Mount Kisco, NY with two partners, now deceased. He retired January 31, 2001. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Elinor, his sons Douglas and An
 KOCH-J. Kenneth. July 6, age 77. Beloved husband of Karen. Loving father of Katherine. Grandfather of Jesse. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to Teachers & Writers Collaborative, 5 Union Sq. West, NYC 10003. KOCH-Kenneth. T
 KRAMER-Charles L., on July 8, 2002, in his 85th year. Beloved husband of Dee. Devoted father of William and Elizabeth. Grandfather of Benjamin, Matthew and Asher. Loving father-in-law of Nora Kramer and Robert Reid. We will love him forever. Memorial service at 1:30pm on Wednesday, July 10,
 LANDIS-William B. Aged 84, of New York City, on July 6, 2002. Retired senior tax partner of Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, Alexander and Ferdon, and member of Tax Forum. Survived by Elizabeth, his wife of 54 years, his brother F. Parks Landis and his family. Contributions in his memory may be made t
 MORAN-James P. on June 29, 2002 in Palm Harbor, FL. Loving husband of Ann P. (nee McGuigan). Loving father of Mary M. Esposito, Nancy T. Hopkins, Eileen E. Casolaro, Michael P. and the late John J. He is survived by thirteen grandchildren. Dear brother of the late Rose B. Moran and Peter C.
 MOSLER-John E., on July 7, 2002, at age 79. Loving father of Bruce E. Mosler and his wife Wendy, John E. Mosler, Jr. and his wife Jennifer, and Michele A. Mosler. Devoted grandfather of David and Charlotte Mosler. Devoted brother of Janet Coleman and the late Edwin H. Mosler, Jr. Interment 
 OGUS-Dr. Alfred. A distinguished surgeon and resident of Rancho Santa Fe for 25 years, died on June 24, after a lengthy illness. Born in Washington DC in 1912, he received his medical degree from George Washington University in 1935. Following his internship at Gallinger Hospital, he comple
 PECKETT-Jack. New York University grieves for the loss of Jack Peckett, the Associate Director of Athletics and a member of the NYU community for nearly three decades. A cherished friend, a valued colleague, and an unflagging booster of NYU, Jack was a principal architect of NYU's sports an
 WILLIAMS-Ted. The President, Board of Trustees, staff and extended family of Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, and its fund raising arm the Jimmy Fund, mourn the passing of Ted Williams, baseball's most famous hitter in the Jimmy Fund's legendary supporter. For thousands of children with cancer
 BYER-Samuel. The leadership and staff of The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring mourn the passing of the President of the Workmen's Circle Multicare Center and former member of our National Executive Board, Sam Byer. His vision and devotion have been the guiding forces of the center for the past
 Lore Noto, the theatrical producer who nurtured a little show called ''The Fantasticks'' and turned it into the world's longest-running musical, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. He died after a long battle with cancer, his
 BROWN-Earle, July 2, 2002. A leading American composer of the New York School. Dear husband of Susan Sollins-Brown, survived also by his sister Marilyn Krysil, a niece Tanya Morrissey, nephews Steven Krysil, Stephen Sollins & Andrew Farnsworth, and four grand-nephews. Contributions in his m
 CONSTANTINER-Dr. Jaime. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University deeply mourn the passing, in Mexico, of Dr. Jaime Constantiner, Deputy Chairman of Tel Aviv University's Board of Governors. Dr. Constantiner's dedication to Israel and his support of Tel Aviv University will always be reme
 DOCTOROFF-Hon. Martin M. Beloved father of Daniel L. Doctoroff, a past Trustee and father-in-law of Alisa R. Doctoroff, our current vice president, died Tuesday, July 9th, in Troy, MI. after a long illness. The funeral will take place on Thursday, July 11 at the Ira Kaufman Funeral Home, So
 FINKELSTEIN-Isador H. On July 8, 2002. Beloved husband of Matilda for over 70 years, devoted father of Herbert and Lois and daughter-in-law Iris and son-in-law Morton, cherished grandfather of Amy, Stacy & Sarah and their husbands Jeffrey, Michael & Mark. Loving great grandfather of David, 
 GILBERT-Bernard, 79. Of West Palm Beach, FL, on July 5, 2002. Devoted husband of Ruth, father of Steven and Barry, grandfather of Steven T. & Anna. He will be deeply missed. His wisdom, guidance, logic and humor guided 3 generations. In accordance with his wishes, services will be private. 
 GOLDBERG-Paul, MD. The Division of Urology at Maimonides Medical Center, notes with sadness the passing of an esteemed and revered colleague. Our condolences to his family. Gilbert J. Wise, MD, Director       
 GUERETTE-Donald R., 66. Died July 5 while scuba-diving in Belize, doing what he loved best, enjoying life with his family. He is survived by his loving wife Roberta, his sons Nathan and Marc, his daughter-in-law Katherine, his sister Lee Gidge, his nephews, grandnephew and niece, his sister
 MOSLER-John E., on July 7, 2002, at age 79. Loving father of Bruce E. Mosler and his wife Wendy, John E. Mosler, Jr. and his wife Jennifer, and Michele A. Mosler. Devoted grandfather of David and Charlotte Mosler. Devoted brother of Janet Coleman and the late Edwin H. Mosler, Jr. Interment 
 NOTO-Lore. The League of Off-Broadway Theatres and Producers mourns the loss of Lore Noto, whose faith, vision and commitment helped to create ''The Fantasticks,'' an Off-Broadway masterpiece which has brought joy to audiences all over the world. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife, Ma
 Rod Steiger, whose taut and intensely personal approach to a wide variety of roles placed him among the finest character actors of the last 50 years and brought him an Academy Award in 1967 for his depiction of the bigoted Southern sheriff in the film ''In the Heat of the Night,'' died yest
 Ward Kimball, a Disney animator who created Jiminy Cricket, updated Mickey Mouse and brought the crows to life in a famous scene in ''Dumbo,'' died on Monday in Arcadia, Calif. He was 88 and lived in San Gabriel, Calif. Mr. Kimball was hired by Walt Disney in 1934 and became part of
 William B. Ruger, an American gun designer who founded Sturm, Ruger & Company, the largest firearms manufacturer in the United States, died on Saturday at his home in Prescott, Ariz.. He was 86. The company, which Mr. Ruger started in 1949 in a partnership with Alexander McCormick S
 Mark McGarrity, who wrote a popular series of richly detailed mystery novels set in Ireland under the pen name Bartholomew Gill, died in a fall late last Wednesday night or early last Thursday morning outside his home in Morristown, N.J. He was 58. He fell and hit his head while try
 Dhirajlal Ambani, one of India's most successful entrepreneurs, who built up the Reliance Group into the country's largest industrial concern, died on Saturday in Bombay. He was 69. The cause was a stroke, according to the company. Mr. Ambani presided over a $12.5 billion em
 Dr. Monroe E. Wall, a chemist who helped discover the cancer drugs Taxol and camptothecin, died on Saturday at a hospital in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 85. The cause was heart and kidney failure, said the Research Triangle Institute in North Carolina, where he had worked for the last 
 BROWN-Earle. The Directors and staff of the Foundation for Contemporary Performance Arts, Inc., mourn the loss of Earle Brown, who received a grant for his music the first year of the organization's operations in 1963, and was awarded The John Cage Award for Music in 1998. He was a much-adm
 DOCTOROFF - Martin M. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Martin M. Doctoroff, a prominent appeals court judge in Michigan. We extend our sincerest condolences to his son, Daniel L. Doctoroff, a leader in the Jewish 
 FERBER-Russell. The staff, past and present, of the Village Community School extends its heartfelt sympathy to David, Dorothy and Jordon on the tragic and untimely passing of their son and brother and our beloved alumnus Russell. His spirit was larger than life and will continue to fill the
 JEPSON-Hans G., Colonel, U.S. Army, Retired, at age 94. On Tuesday, July 9, 2002 at Mt. Vernon Hospital. Beloved husband of Juanita I. Jepson. Father of Hans G. Jepson II of New York City. Brother of Norma T. Bartlett of Tacoma, WA. Father-in-law of Barbara G. Jepson of New York City. Inter
 JOHNSON - Theodore Lud wig. Died June 26, 2002 in San Diego, CA. Born in Brooklyn on January 17, 1910 to Swedish immigrants, he is survived by a son David of San Diego and a daughter Beej of Manhattan & two grandsons.       
 MOSLER-John E., on July 7, 2002, at age 79. Loving father of Bruce E. Mosler and his wife Wendy, John E. Mosler, Jr. and his wife Jennifer, and Michele A. Mosler. Devoted grandfather of David and Charlotte Mosler. Devoted brother of Janet Coleman and the late Edwin H. Mosler, Jr. Interment 
 WALLIS-James Tureaud. On July 6, 2002 in Scarborough, Maine after a long illness. Brother of George R., John & Robert C. Memorial service Friday July 19 at 4 PM at St. Mary's Episcopal Church, Northeast Harbor, Maine. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Maine Coast Heritage Trust
 WINSTON-John J., 71 years old. Owner of the Charles J. Winston Co., died Wednesday, July 10, after a courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his devoted wife Carol, his cherished daughter Nicole, his loving brothers and sister, Jerry, Richard and Carol. He was greatly loved and wil
 Jan Zamoyski, the head of one of Poland's richest and most powerful noble families, whose life reflected his country's turbulent and destructive political fate in the 20th century, died on June 29 in Warsaw. He was 90. In May 1939, just months before the invasion by Germany, Count Z
 John Wallach, a former senior editor with Hearst Newspapers who founded Seeds of Peace, a summer camp in Maine that brings together children from opposing sides of conflicts around the world, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 59. The cause was lung cancer, Seeds of Peace said.    
 Michael McLaughlin, who wrote close to a dozen cookbooks and contributed to as many more after collaborating on the groundbreaking ''Silver Palate Cookbook'' in 1982, was found dead last week at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 53. His family said he died of natural causes around J
 EMBER-Susan S. On July 10, 2002 at age 62. Loving wife of Norman Ember. Cherished stepmother of Max, Peter, Richard and his wife MarieClaire. Adored sister of Neal Cohen and his wife JoAnn. Dear aunt of Jennifer DeLaney and Stephanie Schneider and their families. Funeral service to be held 
 ENTMACHER - Jack, 85 years, of Clearbrook, Monroe Township, NJ, on July 10th, 2002. Husband of Doris (Leff). Father of Rita Cohen & Joan Entmacher. Grandfather of Evan Cohen. He had a law practice in NYC for over 40 years and later in NJ for 15 years. Funeral service today, 2 P.M., at M. Da
 FELDMAN-Albert I. We share the sorrow of our partner, Peter Feldman, on the passing of his father, Albert I. Feldman, who fought his illness with dignity and with the support of his family. We extend our deepest condolences to Peter, his mother, Ruth, his wife, Mary, their children, Sasha a
 GLASSER-Sidney. In his 90th year, on July 11, of complications developed during hospitalization for an injury. Born on March 9, 1913 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, he had a long and productive career in the glass industry, primarily as a labor activist. As chief executive of Local 108
 GORDON-Alvin J., M.D. Died on July 10, 2002 at age 87 after a short illness. He died at Mount Sinai Hospital where he worked as a cardiologist from 1938-2001, heading the Cardiac Catheterization Team for 25 years and serving as Clinical Professor of Medicine. He was also Chief of Cardiology
 JEPSON-Col. Hans G., U.S. Army Retired. The Officers & Staff of Lafayette Enterprises extend deepest sympathy to our longtime friend and colleague, Hans G. Jepson, on the passing of his father, Col. Hans G. Jepson, at the age of 94. Condolences are also extended to Col. Jepson's loving wife
 PALERMO - John V. Of Nyack, NY, died July 9, 2002. Mass July 13, St. Ann's Church in Nyack. Viewing on Friday 2-4 and 7-9 P.M., Hannemann Funeral Home, 88 South Broadway, Nyack. Donations in his memory to the Cynthia Fava Palermo Scholarship Fund at Georgian Court College, Lakewood Avenue, 
 SCHINDELHEIM-Samuel, 89. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of New York City, passed away July 9, 2002. Beloved husband of Rose, to whom he was married 62 years. Loving father of Joanne (Jay) Moskowitz and Jonathan P. Schindelheim. Cherished grandfather of Michael and Andrew and great-grandfather 
 SILVEY-William H. Passed away at home in Largo, FL, on July 9 at age 83. He is survived by his wife Joyce, sister Alice Jean and loving family and friends. For information Moss-Feaster Funeral Home, 727-446-2375.       
 SNOWMAN - A. Kenneth., C.B.E., Peacefully at home on July 9th, aged 82 years. Loving husband of the late Sallie, father of Nicholas, father-inlaw of Margo, grandfather of Hector, brother of Charlotte Robson. Will be greatly missed by the Snowman, Robson, Bloom, and Moghilevkine families his
 WALLACH-John Paul. On July 10, 2002. Beloved husband of Janet. Loving father of Michael and David. Cherished grandfather ''Pop'' to Jordan. Dear brother of Susan Gordon and brother-inlaw of Billy Gordon and uncle of Geoffrey and Samantha. Visiting Friday 11:30AM to 12PM at ''The Riverside''
 WINSTON-John J., 71 years old. Owner of the Charles J. Winston Co., died Wednesday, July 10, after a courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his devoted wife Carol, his cherished daughter Nicole, his loving brothers and sister, Jerry, Richard and Carol. He was greatly loved and wil
 MARCELLINO-Fred. July 12, 2001. It was a year ago today that we said goodbye to our incomparable husband, father and father-inlaw. His genius, his uncompromising integrity and his valor inspire us every day. Jean, Nico and Elizabeth       
 Alan Shulman, a composer and cellist whose works were performed by orchestras, chamber groups and jazz ensembles, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Hudson, N.Y. He was 86. Two of Mr. Shulman's most frequently performed scores are the sweetly Neo-Classical Theme and Variations f
 Ira Eaker, a founder of Back Stage, the weekly theatrical newspaper that is a must-read for many actors seeking work, union news and reviews, died on June 26 at a hospital in Tamarac, Fla. He was 80. An advertising man who worked for various publications during college, Mr. Eaker go
 Irv Kaze, who in almost a half-century as a sports executive worked for some of the most famous owners in sports, died June 29 in Glendale, Calif. He was 75. His family said that shortly after he completed his weekly radio talk show for KRLA-AM, he had a heart attack in a restaurant
 SHULMAN-Alan, 87. Composer and cellist, died peacefully July 10, 2002 in Hudson, NY. Survivors include Jay Shulman of Claverack, NY; Laurie Shulman of Dallas, TX; Marc Shulman of Manhattan; and Lisa Shulman. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Violoncello Society, 340 W. 55 St., 
 WALLACH-John. Our friend John's commitment to bringing children together for the sake of peace was inspiring. The Board of Directors of The Elie Wiesel Foundation extends its deepest sympathy to Janet, Michael, David and their families. Elie Wiesel, President Marion Wiesel, V.P. Arnold Thal
 WHYTE-Jonathan. Of Boynton Beach, Fl, formerly of New Jersey passed away on July 5, 2002. He is survived by his mother Carole, his brother Jamie (Natalie) and his aunt Nancy Rothkrug       
 BERKE-Arnold H. Age 83, on July 11, of Floral Park, NY, of a heart attack while doing what he loved for over 40 years, playing tennis. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Cherished friend and father to Sandy, Barbara and husbands Don and Michael. Proud and adoring grandfather to Rebecca. Lovi
 CASTELLINI-John. Age 96, died in Cincinnati on July 12, 2002. Beloved colleague, mentor, teacher and Professor Emeritus of Queens College, CUNY for over 30 years. Noted composer (student of Schoenberg and Respighi) and author. Among the founders of the music program at Queens College and fo
 DENNIS-Clifford C. On July 11, 2002. Beloved husband of the late V. Jane Dennis. Loving brother of Shirlie Drenten and Richard Dennis. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the American Heart Association or Cancer Care.       
 FELD-Paul. Passed away July 3 at age 84 in Cuernavaca, Mexico. Formerly of Westbury, LI and Hollywood, FL, he is survived by his loving wife Paula, his brother, his three devoted children, five beloved grandchildren & four adored great-grandchildren.       
 GREENFIELD-Harvey. Distinguished New York attorney Harvey Greenfield died in his home of natural causes on July 5, 2002. He was an advocate of stock investors, tirelessly fighting corporate fraud on their behalf through his firm, the Law Firm of Harvey Greenfield. He was an active litigator
 KAPLAN-Ben. The Officers, Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with sadness the passing of Ben Kaplan on June 26, 2002 and record with appreciation his services as Director of Administration from 1968-1989 and Assistant Treasurer from 1989-1990. In his da
 KUZMENKO-Tom. He was greatly loved and will be deeply missed more than mere words can express.       
 LEVY-Jacob M., 95. On July 11th, 2002. Husband of the late Celia, father of Naomi and Harold, grandfather of Stacie and Matthew. A retired accountant, a lover of books and history who retained his sharp mind, will and wit till the end. He was truly unique and will be missed.       
 MANDRESH - Daniel. Be loved husband, brother and father passed suddenly on July 11, 2002, at the age of 71. Our beloved husband, brother and grandfather left behind Golda, his wife, Howard and Sylvia, his brother and sister, Pam, Diane, Jill, his daughters, Doug and David, his sons, along w
 SALZMAN - Seymour. Be loved husband & soulmate of Ruth, til death did part. Loving father, grandfather, uncle, cousin and friend to all. He will be remembered forever in our hearts. Contributions in his memory to Israeli Emergency Fund. With love, Ruth.       
 SCHACHTEL-Elizabeth. July 12, 2002. Beloved wife of Dr. Maurice W. Schactel. Loving mother of Daniel and his wife Sari. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan and Elliott. Devoted sister of Regina and Esther. Friends may call Monday, July 15th, 10-12 Noon, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 
 SHULMAN-Alan. The Violoncello Society of New York mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague Alan Shulman, Founding Member and Past President. Cellist and composer, his dedication to the art of cello playing and his contribution to its literature is legendary. Zara Nelsova, President       
 SPRIGGS - Carlton Daniel. passed on July 10th, 2002 of Silver Spring, Maryland. He was the beloved husband of Carol A. Spriggs, father of C. Danny Spriggs, Carle Spriggs, Jennyfer Lee, and Penni Spriggs-McDonald. Brother of beloved sisters Consuella Simpkins, and Valtine E. Jones, and broth
 WALLACH-John. In your care, individuals became a community; a dream became reality; the future became the present. You showed us the humanity in each soul and charted a path to peace for generations to come. Even in death, you are not defeated. Your indomitable will and invincible spirit li
 WEISS-Rabbi Samuel. 93, of Silver Spring and Baltimore, MD, on June 20, in New York. Beloved husband of the late Adel Weiss. Devoted father of Goldie (Dr. Jacob) Brener, Ruby (Rabbi Marcel) Blitz and the late Rabbi Edward Weiss. Cherished grandfather of Michelle (Dr. Isaac) Teitelbaum and J
 Yousuf Karsh, whose photographic portraits of the famous and the powerful are known to millions throughout the world, died yesterday at 93. He died after surgery at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, said his nephew, Sidney Karsh. Best known for his World War II portrai
 Joaqun Balaguer, a former president of the Dominican Republic who was among the last of the classic Latin American strongmen and one of the longest-lasting political figures of the 20th century, died yesterday at a hospital in Santo Domingo. He was 95. Short, shrewd and indomitabl
 BALL-Ina. Of Manhasset Hills, NY, on July 13. Beloved wife of the late Martin Ball. Loving mother of Stuart and Melinda and Steven and Sharon. Dear sister of Philip and Roslyn, and sister-in-law of Arthur. Cherished grandmother of Lauren, Andrew, Matthew, Marissa and Danielle. Wonderful fri
 DANZIGER-Martin B. We are mourning the loss of Martin B. Danziger due to a tragic accident on July 12, 2002, on his way to his vacation home. His wife Joan, sisters Joyce and Robin, and niece Karen are saddened by this unexpected event. Martin was most recently a principal of the Danziger &
 HUFFARD-P. Phillip III. Beloved husband of Deborah died July 11 in Greenwich, CT. Loving father of sons Wick, Tate, Gray, Phillip IV, Trevor, and daughters Whitney Phillips and Courtney Platt. Survived by his mother Edith, brother Jay and sister Hathaway Green and Honor Stanley, and nine gr
 SNOWMAN-A. Kenneth. The Schaffer family mourns the loss of a dear friend and colleague of many years, and extends its heartfelt condolences to his family and associates at Wartski's. His warmth and friendship, and his love of life and the arts, will be missed by many throughout the world. P
 Yousuf Karsh, whose photographic portraits of the famous and the powerful are known to millions throughout the world, died yesterday at 93. He died after surgery at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, said his nephew, Sidney Karsh. Best known for his World War II portrai
 Benny Peled, who commanded the Israeli Air Force at two historic junctures -- the Middle East war of 1973 and the rescue of Israeli hostages in Entebbe, Uganda, in 1976 -- died on Saturday in Israel. He was 74. The cause was emphysema, the Israeli press reported. Mr. Peled, 
 ASSEO-Chief Rabbi David. The American Sephardi Federation joins with all Sephardim of the world in mourning the loss of the eminent Chief Rabbi David Asseo, the spiritual leader of the vital Jewish community of Turkey. We recall his warmth, his grace and words of wisdom on the many occasion
 COHN - Bertram Douglas, M.D. founding Chief of Pediatric Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY and resident of Brooklyn, NY and Cold Spring Harbor, NY on July 12, 2002. Beloved husband of Rita Brettschneider Cohn (Cold Spring Harbor, NY), devoted father of Jonathan and Anita Co
 GORDON-Alvin J., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Dr. Alvin Gordon, a highly esteemed physician whose remarkable career at Mount Sinai covered almost half a century. A pioneer in cardiac catheterization, Dr. Gordon h
 GOROG-William F. William F. Gorog, one of America's most successful entrepreneurs who often noted that an almost warped sense of optimism, ''a refusal to accept reality'' was required to succeed in bringing pioneering technologies into mainstream use, died of complications from lung cancer 
 HOLLANDER - Susan. On July 14, suddenly. Wife of Leonard, mother of Eric, Seth and David & his wife Wendy. Sister to Joseph and his wife Pattie. She was an administrator and devoted volunteer at various organizations including UJA and Princeton U. The funeral will be held at the Jewish Cong
 LEVITAN-Fred F. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Barbara and Michael and father-in-law of Steven Abrams. Cherished grandfather of Samantha. Services Tuesday, 2 PM, at ''Riverside-Nassau No. Chapels,'' 55 No. Station Plaza, Great Neck. Contributions in his name may be made to the 
 LOTZOF - David. Beloved husband of the late Sadie. Loving father of Selwyn Lotzof and Lorraine Abramson. Cherished grandfather of Gregg, Jill, Evan, Kaylie and great grandfather of Emma and Leah. LOTZOF-David. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York 
 PHENIX-Dr. Philip Henry, 87. Longtime resident of the Bridgewater Retirement Community, died after a short illness on July 13, 2002 in Stanley, Virginia, where he lived with family the final months of his life. He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Gena Tenney Phenix, and two sons, Roger 
 ROLAND-Maxwell, M.D. On July 14th at the age of 93 of Fort Lauderdale, FL. and NY. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Ronni Eron and Bruce. Cherished grandfather of Lauren. Services Wednesday 12 noon at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York.   
 SCHAFFNER-Charles E. Of Locust Valley, NY, July 12, 2002. Beloved husband of Olga. Loving father of Charles E. Schaffner II and Linda Schaffner Downes. Dear grandfather of Chapman Schaffner Downes, Charles Chester Sharp, Matthew C. Schaffner, Stephen B. Schaffner and great-grandfather of Ch
 VAGT-Henry Tyrrell Jr. On July 14, 2002, of Scarsdale and Eagle Bay, NY. Born in Brooklyn on April 18, 1927, son of the late Veronica Maxwell Vagt and Henry Tyrrell Vagt. Graduate of Brooklyn Preparatory School, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute B.E.E. and Polytechnic University M.E.E. Survi
 WALLACH-John. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, John Wallach, and our hearts go out to Janet, Michael and David. We honor his memory and we rest assured that the cause of peace will be advanced by all who knew and loved this man of peace. Susan and Murray Haber       
 Sid Avery, a Hollywood photographer who was known for capturing the private moments of stars like Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, James Dean and Audrey Hepburn, died on July 1 in Los Angeles. He was 83. Mr. Avery's work in the 1950's and 60's was a departure from the glamorized, soft
 Charles Burton, a British explorer who took part in the first expedition to circumnavigate the globe from pole to pole, died on Monday at his family home in the English village of Framfield in Sussex. He was 59 and had suffered a heart attack, said his brother, Richard. Setting off 
 John J. Gilbert, one of the earliest and most persistent gadflies to speak out at annual meetings on behalf of small shareholders -- dramatizing his demands with such attention-getting props as a red clown's nose -- died on Monday at his daughter's home in Denver. He was 88. Margot 
 ANTINE-Anthony. Of Fort Lee, NJ, passed away on Sunday July 14, 2002. He is survived by Ho Shin, Lorraine, his sister, and beloved family and friends. An internationally renowned designer for over twenty years with commercial and private accomplishments including The Point Hotel, Saranac La
 COHN - Bertram Douglas, M.D. founding Chief of Pediatric Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY and resident of Brooklyn, NY and Cold Spring Harbor, NY on July 12, 2002. Beloved husband of Rita Brettschneider Cohn (Cold Spring Harbor, NY), devoted father of Jonathan and Anita Co
 GORDON-Alvin J., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Alvin J. Gordon, M.D., former member of the Department of Medicine staff at Beth Israel's Singer Division. To his family, friends, and all who 
 HOVNANIAN - Alton. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of The City of New York mourn the tragic death of Alton Hovnanian. We extend our deepest sympathies to his entire family. Newton P.S. Merrill, Chairman Robert R. Macdonald, Director       
 ROLAND-Maxwell, M.D. On July 14th at the age of 93 of Fort Lauderdale, FL. and NY. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Ronni Eron and Bruce. Cherished grandfather of Lauren. Services Wednesday 12 noon at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York.   
 ROSEN-Jesse. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Jesse Rosen, on July 14th. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Dir
 SCHAFFNER-Charles E. The Cooper Union Alumni Association mourns the passing of Charles Schaffner (CE '41). Charlie's activism and dedication to his alma mater were exemplary and he provided strong leadership on the Alumni Council, particularly as President and Vice President, and on The Coo
 WALLACH-John. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, John Wallach. He was a great, inspiring leader of our common mission-to advance the cause of a just peace. Through his commitment and courage, he brought to public attention the importance of peace on children's lives. Our deep
 William F. Gorog, a technology entrepreneur who was one of the first to develop the public's ability to pay over the phone with credit cards and later via the Internet, died Sunday at a hospital in Falls Church, Va. He was 76 and lived in nearby McLean. The cause was lung cancer, fa
 Col. Floyd J. Thompson, who for almost nine years endured cold cells, jungle cages and torture in Vietnam, becoming the longest-serving American prisoner of war in any conflict, died on Tuesday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 69. The cause was unclear, said Charles Ingraham, a 
 Hal Simms, for decades one of the most frequently heard announcers on CBS television, died on July 2 in a nursing home in Brookline, Mass., his family said. He was 83. From the early 1950's until his retirement in 1992, Mr. Simms was a familiar offstage presence on shows like ''Beat
 Joseph Marie Antoine Hubert Luns, a former Dutch foreign minister and NATO secretary general, died yesterday, Dutch government officials said. Dr. Luns was 90 and living in Brussels. He suffered a stroke five years ago and had required close medical attention ever since. A h
 Michael A. McCarthy, an architect who blended a cool sense of modernism with traditional Muslim forms to create New York's most significant new house of worship in recent decades, the Islamic Cultural Center mosque on the Upper East Side, was found dead in his Manhattan apartment Tuesday. H
 ESTRIN-Abe. July 14, 2002, at the age of 93, in Richmond, Virginia, his home since 1958. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 60 years, Clara. Adored father of Mark and daughter-in-law Barbara, of Providence, RI; and Rosalie (Arthur) Matz, of Baltimore, MD. Che
 HAMILTON-Walter Thomas. On July 15, 2002. Husband of the late Esther and father of the late Michael. Survived by his sister, Frances Rosemary. Visitation Friday, 10-11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Interment L.I. National Cemetery.       
 KARSH-Yousuf. We mourn the passing of a dear friend and monumental force in photography, whose long distinguished career touched the lives of major figures of contemporary history. He will also be missed for his innate charm and keen insight. We extend our deep condolences to Estrellita, hi
 MARKEY-Walter. On July 17, 2002. Beloved husband of Sylvia, loving brother of Doris Chaewsky. Sylvia and Walter were the co-founders of Showcase Theater Dramatic School and Sylvia Leigh Studio of Speech Arts in New York City. Walter was a renowned chiropractor as well. He will be deeply mis
 McCARTHY - Michael A., July 16, 2002. Son of the late Joseph W. & Mary Pellegrini McCarthy. Dear brother of Susan C. McCarthy. Cousin of William McCarthy. He was a partner of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, LLP., and was honored as a foremost benefactor of Cornell in 1993. Friends may call at t
 PLOTNICK-Harvey. On July 16, 2002, father of Liz, David, Larry, and Jack. Brother of Stanley and soul mate of his beloved Peggy. Services Friday 10 A.M. Guttermans Chapel, 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, N.Y.       
 WALLACH-John. Recipient of the Council's International First Freedom Award, we salute John Wallach for his extraordinary message of peace to children of all faiths and ethnicities which inspired and challenged our international community. Our deepest sympathy to the Wallach family. Tommy P.
 The Rev. David S. Toolan, a Jesuit priest, theologian, editor and author who explored the connection between science, the environment and religion, died on Tuesday at the Jesuit infirmary at Fordham University in the Bronx. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was colon cance
 Edmund Anderson, a former stockbroker with an interest in music who became a producer and also influenced the career of his friend Duke Ellington, died on June 29 at his home in Quogue, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Anderson, who worked for some years at his father's brokerage, Anderson & Com
 John Cocke, a leading computer scientist whose inventions spanned an uncommon range of computing technology from software to microprocessors, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was a long illness, including a series of strokes, said his nephew Norma
 Mario Juruna, a chief of the Xavante Indians of central Brazil and the only Indian to serve in the Brazilian Congress, died on Tuesday in Braslia. He was 58. The cause was complications from diabetes, said a spokesman for Santa Lcia Hospital. Mr. Juruna was elected to Br
 BECKER-Philip. The Members, Board of Governors and Officers of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of a good friend and fellow member of long standing, and extend their deepest sympathy to his family. Morton Klein, President       
 DELMAESTRO-Louis ''Gigi'' died July 13, 2002, of cancer, at the home of his daughter, Madeline Tugentman, in Maplewood, NJ. He was 66. Gigi became the quintessential Hollywood restaurateur after 27 years at the Los Angeles Palm Restaurant. Gigi is also survived by daughter, Elizabeth Salitu
 GIARD-Robert J. Jr. Suddenly, unbelievably on July 16, 2002. Passionate photographer, loving partner, and loyal friend-Bob will be sorely missed by the many who cherished his quiet, steady and thoughtful ways.       
 GOERTZEL-Dr. Gerald. Beloved husband of the late Martha Bendheim Goertzel for fifty-five years, died at the age of 82, July 17, 2002, in his home in White Plains. Dr. Goertzel retired in 1992 from a distinguished career as a computer scientist, nuclear engineer, and physicist, including wor
 GOLIGHTLY-Henry O. July 17, 2002. He is survived by his several Texas relatives, including Gene Richardson, Marilyn Bonner Lane, Maxine Jarrett, George and John Golightly. He headed the well-known consulting firm Golightly & Company International and served many leading US and foreign compa
 GRANT-James Deneale. On July 13th, 2002, at age 70. Former Deputy Commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration. Retired Chairman and CEO of T Cell Sciences. Director of several biotech boards. Beloved husband of Bonnie J. Grant. Loving father of Glenn, Bruce Scott and grandfather of 
 HENLEY-Walter L., M.D. On July 18, 2002. Beloved and devoted husband, father, sibling, physician, friend. He is survived and missed by Edith, his wife of 50 years, daughters Madeline and Elizabeth, son-in-law Joseph N. Kaster and siblings Ernest, and Renee Stein. We will always cherish and 
 LEWIN-Hellmut. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Hellmut Lewin. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Lucille, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary 
 McCARTHY - Michael A., July 16, 2002. Son of the late Joseph W. & Mary Pellegrini McCarthy. Dear brother of Susan C. McCarthy. Cousin of William McCarthy. He was a partner of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, LLP., and was honored as a foremost benefactor of Cornell in 1993. Friends may call at t
 GORDON-Alvin J., M.D. Died on July 10, 2002 at age 87 after a short illness. A memorial service in his honor will be held on Monday, July 29 at 4 P.M. at the Mark Hotel, Madison Avenue at East 77th St. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Cardiovascular Institute, 1 Gustave L. Lev
 Seymour SolomonSeymour Solomon, who with his brother, Maynard, founded Vanguard Records in 1950 and turned it into the dominant label for American folk music, recording such artists as Joan Baez, Odetta, Buffy Sainte-Marie and Ian & Sylvia, died yesterday at his summer home in Lenox, Mass. 
 Alan Lomax, the legendary collector of folk music who was the first to record towering figures like Leadbelly, Muddy Waters and Woody Guthrie, died yesterday at a nursing home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87. Mr. Lomax was a musicologist, author, disc jockey, singer, photographer, talen
 Aleksandr I. Ginzburg, a poet and a frequently jailed dissident in the Soviet Union who fought for human rights during the Khrushchev and Brezhnev eras, died yesterday in his adopted city of Paris. He was 65. No cause of death was given. Mr. Ginzburg was an advocate of nonviolent ch
 Constantine Leventis, head of a London-based Greek Cypriot business dynasty and a major benefactor of Hellenic art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and other museums around the world, died on July 11 in London. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his brother, Tassos. 
 FIERMAN-Merwyn I. All of us at Greiner-Maltz are terribly saddened by the loss of Mike, our dear friend and associate for over forty years. He was the consummate deal maker and an inspiring and dynamic force in our firm. We shall deeply miss his leadership, creativity and sense of humor. Hi
 KROTKI-Carl, 87. Beloved husband of the late Shirley, father of Saul Krotki and Isaac and Judith Putterman, devoted grandfather of Amanda Krotki, Chad and Jessica Haller, and Karen Putterman, great-grandfather of Leila. CPA, attorney, controller of Permag Corporation, and passionate bibliop
 SOLOMON-Seymour. Beloved husband of Pearl Solomon, father of Susan Solomon (Paul Goldberger), Gail Cote (Robert Cote), and Carol Solomon, step-father of Andrew Chesler (Amanda Robb); grandfather of Adam Hirsh, Julia Cote, Matthew Cote, Daniel Cote, Rebecca Cote, Ben Goldberger, Alex Goldber
 George Rickey, a sculptor widely known for his abstract kinetic sculptures, died on Wednesday at his home in St. Paul, Minn. He was 95. Mr. Rickey was one of two major 20th-century artists to make movement a central interest in sculpture. Alexander Calder, whose mobiles Mr. Rickey e
 ATHINEOS-George. On July 16, at the age of 78, of Riverdale, NY. Beloved husband of Evangeline whom he adored, and they adored each other very much. He was a devoted and loving father of Elizabeth and Stephen Athineos, and cherished grandfather of his grandchildren. They will miss their Pap
 FIERMAN-Merwyn I. All of us at Greiner-Maltz are terribly saddened by the loss of Mike, our dear friend and associate for over forty years. He was the consummate deal maker and an inspiring and dynamic force in our firm. We shall deeply miss his leadership, creativity and sense of humor. Hi
 FIERMAN-Michael. We will miss our wise and funny, beloved friend. He will live in our hearts forever. Susan and Harris Amster       
 FIERMAN-Michael (Mike). Our beloved husband and father died at his home on Friday, July 18, after a courageous fight with ALS (Lou Gredia). He leaves a heartbroken family that will always remember him with love and deep affection. This extraordinary and dynamic man demonstrated tremendous s
 GIARD-Robert J. Jr. Suddenly, unbelievably on July 16, 2002. Passionate photographer, loving partner, and loyal friend-Bob will be sorely missed by the many who cherished his quiet, steady and thoughtful ways.       
 GOLIGHTLY-Henry O. July 17, 2002. He is survived by his several Texas relatives, including Gene Richardson, Marilyn Bonner Lane, Maxine Jarrett, George and John Golightly. He headed the well-known consulting firm Golightly & Company International and served many leading US and foreign compa
 GRANT-James Deneale. On July 13th, 2002, at age 70. Former Deputy Commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration. Retired Chairman and CEO of T Cell Sciences. Director of several biotech boards. Beloved husband of Bonnie J. Grant. Loving father of Glenn, Bruce Scott and grandfather of 
 HENLEY-Walter L., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff of the Milton and Bernice Stern Department of Pediatrics, in acknowledging the passing of our dear friend and longtime collegue Walter L. Henley, M.D. Prior to his retirement in 1
 HERMAN-Leon. Artist, psychotherapist, photographer, theatre director, Korean War veteran, builder, farmer, teacher, columnist, citizen of the world, native New Yorker, loving husband, father and grandfather. Died of a heart attack on Saturday, July 6 at his beach home in Cape Hatteras, N.C.
 HULBERT-Richard K. Longtime resident of Rye, NY, passed away July 17, 2002. Devoted member of the Rye Presbyterian Church, where he served as Elder and Clerk of Session. Dartmouth Class of 1951. He was General Auditor and Senior Vice President of Chemical Bank in New York. Beloved husband o
 JEFFERY - Peter Turner. Writer. On July 15, 2002, one day shy of his 73rd birthday, Peter died in Toronto. He is survived by Heidi Jeffery, his children Carmen, Christine, and Cowell.       
 LEIBMAN-Sidney. Age 92, on July 15, 2002, after a brief illness. Dearly beloved husband of Frances Moskin Leibman for 56 years and uncle of many. He was born in New York City, February 23, 1910, graduated from Syracuse University and the Harvard University Law School, and, as a captain in t
 McCARTHY - Michael A., July 16, 2002. Son of the late Joseph W. & Mary Pellegrini McCarthy. Dear brother of Susan C. McCarthy. Cousin of William McCarthy. He was a partner of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, LLP., and was honored as a foremost benefactor of Cornell in 1993. Friends may call at t
 McCLAVE-Wilkes II. Age 83, of Harding Township, NJ, on Tuesday, July 16, 2002. Father of Margaret Snowden of Voorheesville, NY, Wilkes McClave III of Bedford, NY, Pam Jackson of Washington, CT, and Madeline McClave of New Hartford, CT. He is also survived by seven grandchildren and his sist
 McKINLAY-Richard Lovell, formerly of Ryebrook, NY, died Monday, July 15, 2002 in Crestview Healthcare Center, Brownsville, TN. Mr. McKinlay was a former VP of the Bank of New York. He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Ann Hungerford McKinlay.       
 MOTT-Basil J.F., PhD. Dean Emeritus of the School of Health and Human Services at the University of New Hampshire, died at his home in Durham, NH. He was 78 years old. Dr. Mott graduated from Amherst College and received his doctorate from Harvard. Mott spent 40 years studying, teaching, an
 NEIDRINGHAUS-Charles, 87. Died July 15 in Quakertown, PA. Graduate of Illinois Institute of Tech. Pioneer in modern furniture design. Survived by his brother, Clark; sister, Dorothy Bainbridge, & companion, Larry Glasson.       
 RISK-James V. Passed away July 18, at home in Metuchen, NJ. Husband, father, international businessman, friend. Born in Uniontown, PA, he grew up during the Great Depression. In 1953 he moved to New Jersey and married Marjorie Hay, his best friend for the next 34 years until her death in 19
 SINKOFF-Dr. Marvin W. Preceded in death by his beloved wife Alice. Wonderful father to Martin, Richard, Nancy and James. Loving grandfather to Ezra, Miriam, Reuben, Noah and Emma. Services Monday, 11 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. Contribution
 SOLOMON-Seymour. Beloved husband of Pearl Solomon, father of Susan Solomon (Paul Goldberger), Gail Cote (Robert Cote), and Carol Solomon, step-father of Andrew Chesler (Amanda Robb); grandfather of Adam Hirsh, Julia Cote, Matthew Cote, Daniel Cote, Rebecca Cote, Ben Goldberger, Alex Goldber
 Percy Yutar, the South African prosecutor who in 1964 won convictions and lifetime prison terms for Nelson Mandela and other African National Congress leaders for crimes against the white minority-ruled state, died July 13. He was 90. In 1995, Mr. Mandela, released from prison and e
 Chaz M. Holder, a triple amputee who devised a new way of making artificial legs and arms, died on July 4 at his home in Fayetteville, N.C. He was 55. The cause was a heart attack, Ruth Clark, his business partner, said. Dr. Holder was many things, including a Protestant min
 Jack Olsen, a writer famous for his meticulously researched and psychologically illuminating true-crime books, died Tuesday at his home on Bainbridge Island, Wash. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Su. Mr. Olsen wrote more than 30 books, on subjects ran
 ARISOHN-Harvey. The partners and staff of Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow LLP express their deepest sympathies to their partner, Mark A. Arisohn, on the passing of his father, Harvey; we extend our condolences to his wife, son and grandchildren. Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow LLP    
 FIERMAN-Merwyn I. All of us at Greiner-Maltz are terribly saddened by the loss of Mike, our dear friend and associate for over forty years. He was the consummate deal maker and an inspiring and dynamic force in our firm. We shall deeply miss his leadership, creativity and sense of humor. Hi
 FIERMAN-Michael (Mike). Our beloved husband and father died at his home on Friday, July 18, after a courageous fight with ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease). He leaves a heartbroken family that will always remember him with love and deep affection. This extraordinary and dynamic man demonstrated tr
 HULBERT-Richard K. Longtime resident of Rye, NY, passed away July 17, 2002. Devoted member of the Rye Presbyterian Church, where he served as Elder and Clerk of Session. Dartmouth Class of 1951. He was General Auditor and Senior Vice President of Chemical Bank in New York. Beloved husband o
 RICKEY-George. His powerful, imaginative, and whimsical works add to each day's enjoyment. George came to our Larchmont home to site the transfer of a 50 foot skyreaching wind-driven work. To his sons and loyal staff and Birgit, our sadness. Amy and Andrew       
 RISK-James V. Passed away July 18, at home in Metuchen, NJ. Husband, father, international businessman, friend. Born in Uniontown, PA, he grew up during the Great Depression. In 1953 he moved to New Jersey and married Marjorie Hay, his best friend for the next 34 years until her death in 19
 SINKOFF-Marvin W., M.D. Preceded in death by his beloved wife, Alice, and his devoted sister, Roslyn. Wonderful father to Martin, Richard, Nancy and James. Loving grandfather to Ezra, Miriam, Reuben, Noah and Emma. Devoted brother-in-law to Peter and Kathleen Bernholz and Ellen and Richard 
 SOLOMON-Seymour. Beloved husband of Pearl Solomon, father of Susan Solomon (Paul Goldberger), Gail Cote (Robert Cote), and Carol Solomon, step-father of Andrew Chesler (Amanda Robb); grandfather of Adam Hirsh, Julia Cote, Matthew Cote, Daniel Cote, Rebecca Cote, Ben Goldberger, Alex Goldber
 GORDON-Alvin J., M.D. Died on July 10, 2002 at age 87 after a short illness. A memorial service in his honor will be held on Monday, July 29 at 4 P.M. at the Mark Hotel, Madison Avenue at East 77th St. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Cardiovascular Institute, 1 Gustave L. Lev
 Rosco Gordon, a rhythm-and-blues singer and piano player from Memphis who influenced rock 'n' roll and reggae, died on July 11 at his home in Rego Park, Queens. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Victoria. Mr. Gordon had a string of hits in the 1950's
 Edward Lee Howard, the former C.I.A. agent who defected to the Soviet Union in the mid-1980's after a disappearing act in the New Mexico desert, has died. He was 50. ''The embassy has received reports that Edward Lee Howard died on July 12th,'' said Richard A. Boucher, the State Dep
 Frank Shea, the Yankees pitcher who beat the Brooklyn Dodgers twice in the 1947 World Series to highlight a remarkable rookie season, died last Friday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 81. The cause was complications from heart-valve surgery that he underwent last month, his family
 Henry Thornberry, a former executive editor of The New York Times News Service, died Sunday in Coxsackie, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Susan Maraglio. Mr. Thornberry joined The New York Times in 1974 as syndication editor. A year later he m
 BIDERMAN-George. Writer, activist, conservationist, progressive humanist. After a long illness, and caring for his beloved wife and partner, Beth, to the end, George died peacefully and on his own terms at home July 20, 2002. Trained as a social scientist, worked as a journalist and creativ
 BRANDT-William K., Ph.D., 59, an internationally known management consultant to Fortune 500 companies worldwide, died Friday July 19, at Greenwich Hospital. Survived by his wife Catherine, daughter Carleson, son Brooks, stepdaughter Caroline, and his mother Helen. Services will be held at t
 KLEIN - Fred. 1913 - 2002. Adored husband of Marilynn for 35 years, caring uncle of Michael, Patti and Sally, and sister-in-law Dorothy Klein. Born in Hungary, Fred had a stellar 57 year career as a French horn player with CBS Symphony, Rochester Philharmonic, Mexico Symphony, Goldman Band,
 MAURICE-David, Ph.D. July 20, 2002. We mourn the loss of an esteemed colleage, Dr. David Maurice, Professor of Ophthalmology and former Professor, Sanford University. David's love for visual sciences led to seminal contributions. He developed the confocal specular microscope, and was awarde
 SINKOFF-Marvin W., MD. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing colleague, teacher, and friend. Dr. Sinkoff graduated from the New York University School of Medicine. He began his long affiliation with Mount Sinai in the Depa
 TOUCEY-Walter C. A former financial executive in New York City and a resident of Rye Brook, N.Y. died July 22, 2002. He was 91. He graduated the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He received his New York CPA Certificate in 1937. Funeral and burial services are private. In li
 WADSWORTH-Eugene D. age 89, of Manchester, VT. and Syosset, NY died July 20 in VT. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth and his daughter Wendy Roberts, and grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Monday July 29, 11:00 am at St. John's Chapel in Manchester Village. Donations to the Ek
 WEIL-Irving G. on July 20, 2002 at Andrus Retirement Community, Hastings - on Hudson at the age of 97. He was the widower of Anne Mary Feldmar Weil. He was retired from Studio Weil, a continuation of the business of F. Weil & Co. Vienna, Austria, first in Paris and then for many years in NY
 Prince Ahmed bin Salman, the Saudi Arabian businessman who owned War Emblem, the winner of this year's Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes, and Point Given, thoroughbred racing's 2001 horse of the year, died yesterday at a hospital in Riyadh. He was 43. The cause was a heart attack,
 Chaim Potok, a scholar and ordained rabbi whose best-selling novels about Hasidic Judaism explored the wrenching decision to forsake a close-knit parochial community for the world outside, died yesterday at his home in Merion, Pa. He was 73. He had been ill with cancer for some time
 Leo McKern, the veteran stage and screen actor who became best known for his television role as the shrewd and exasperating British barrister ''Rumpole of the Bailey,'' died yesterday at a nursing home near his home in Bath, England. He was 82. He had been ill for some time, his age
 Matt Dennis, a singer and songwriter who wrote ''Let's Get Away From It All,'' ''Everything Happens to Me,'' ''Angel Eyes'' and other big-band-era standards, died on June 21 in a hospital in Riverside, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Riverside. Though he was an accomplished singer, wi
 FISCHER-Henry Wallace. A renowned civil engineer died on July 3, 2002. He was 84. Mr. Fischer began his career with Hardesty & Hanover in 1946 as a Structural Engineer. He quickly rose within the company and was named Partner in 1958. In this position Mr. Fischer was responsible for the des
 LOMAX-Alan. The Hunter College Community mourns the passing of the esteemed musicologist & folklorist, Alan Lomax, who established The Association for Cultural Equity at Hunter in 1989. He also moved his vast research and archival collection of audio and video tapes, photographs, and schola
 POTOK-Chaim. The Jewish Publication Society extends condolences to the family of Dr. Chaim Potok, Bible translator, former JPS Editor-inChief, and long-time JPS Editorial Chairman. For almost four decades, Dr. Potok guided the Society through his notable scholarship, far-reaching vision, an
 RICKEY-George. A wonderful artist, teacher and writer. Our working relationship extended over 30 years; I was proud to publish his book on constructivism. His warmth and smile will be missed. George Braziller, Publisher       
 SIMINOFF - Louis. Loving husband of Ethel (nee Cohn). Devoted father of Nadine Liese, Carol Siminoff, and Judy and Henry Zablow. Cherished grandfather of Jillian and Ryan Liese, Michael and Evan Zablow; brother of Adele Greenman. Served his country during World War II in Itlay. Lifelong Yan
 WASHBURN-Alan L. Of New York and Easthampton, died unexpectedly on July 22, 2002 at the age of 76. Beloved husband of Joan for nearly 49 years, father of Brian and Susan, brother of Doris W. Angst and her husband Charles and father-in-law of Kerry Greene. Born in Mt. Kisco, NY in 1926 and g
 WEIL-Irving G. on July 20, 2002 at Andrus Retirement Community, Hastings - on Hudson at the age of 97. He was the widower of Anne Mary Feldmar Weil. He was retired from Studio Weil, a continuation of the business of F. Weil & Co. Vienna, Austria, first in Paris and then for many years in NY
 WING-Willis (Bud). Age 82, of Brookville, LI on July 22, 2002. Retired in 1984 from Sperry Gyroscope as Division Scientist after 43 years of employment. He had over 30 patents in his name for Sperry. His field was Gyroscopes in Inertial Guidance Systems. Beloved husband of Betty. Adored ste
 Paul Weiss, an indefatigable philosopher who kept teaching despite the efforts of some of the best American universities to stop him because of his advancing age, died on July 5 at his home in Washington. He was 101. Dr. Weiss published more than 30 books. His most recent, ''Emphati
 William Luther Pierce, an ascetic physics professor who built an organization of young supporters for George Wallace for president into the nation's largest neo-Nazi group, and whose novel ''The Turner Diaries'' was credited by Timothy J. McVeigh with inspiring the Oklahoma City bombing, di
 Arnold Weinstock, who for 30 years dominated Britain's electrical and electronics industries with his giant General Electric Company, only to be ousted by critics who then virtually bankrupted the company, died on Tuesday at his home in Wiltshire. He was 77. The cause was cancer, Th
 Dave Carter, a folk singer and songwriter, died on Friday in Hadley, Mass. He was 49 and lived in Portland, Ore. The cause was a heart attack, said his performing partner and companion, Tracy Grammer. Mr. Carter was in the area to perform at a music festival in Greenfield, M
 David Asseo, the chief rabbi of the tiny Jewish community in Turkey, who strove for decades to buttress tolerance among the different religions there, died on July 14 in Istanbul, where he lived. He was 88. At his death he was the longest serving of the chief rabbis in Europe, with 
 Jimmy Maxwell, who played trumpet with many of the best-known big bands in jazz and was also a mainstay of the radio and television studios, died on Saturday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 85. As a lead trumpeter in the bands of Benny Goodman, Count Basie, Woody Herman and o
 Msgr. Richard B. Curtin, who conducted choirs for two papal visits to Yankee Stadium and produced several records of religious choral music, died on Sunday in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 86. In 1965, as Pope Paul VI entered Yankee Stadium for a Mass during the first papal visit to 
 Ned Martin, a radio and television broadcaster for the Boston Red Sox for three decades, died Tuesday, a day after he appeared at Fenway Park for the team's tribute to Ted Williams. He was 78. Mr. Martin collapsed at Raleigh-Durham International Airport while en route to his home in
 CAREY-Edmund L., Jr. Died suddenly Monday, July 22 at home in Oceanport, NJ. He is survived by his son Edmund, sister Mary Louise, brother Brian, four nephews and one niece. A celebration of his radiant life will take place in NYC in September.       
 COLVIN-Richard Riley. 64, of Katonah, NY died on July 21, 2002. Beloved husband of Jane and father of Zachary, brother of William. He was an innovative entrepreneur, inventor, landscape architect and gifted craftsman. He will be fondly remembered for his generous spirit and sensitivity to o
 Du BAIN-Myron. Former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Fireman's Fund Corporation, and a Director of American Express Corporation, passed away on July 18, 2002 at California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco, at the age of 79 years; survivors include his wife, Alic
 GIBSON - George Warner. Died on July 18, 2002 at his home in Hallowell, Maine. He was 93. He was the beloved husband of the late Diana Gibson of Hallowell. George Gibson was born on February 19, 1909 in Chestnut Hill, MA, the son of Kirkland Hopkins Gibson and Florence Warner. He attended R
 JUDSON - Franklin S. Of Greenwich, Ct died July 23, 2002, of heart failure. He lived in Greenwich for the last 25 years. He was President of Stroheim & Romann in New York City. He also served on the Board of the League for the Hard of Hearing, and on the Board of Fider. Mr. Judson was a gra
 POTOK-Rabbi Chaim. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. After ordination, he was the director of the leadership Training Fellowship at JTS and then became director of Camp Ramah in California before embarking upon his illustrious career as a writer. Author of 
 RICKEY-George. 95. Passed away peacefully on July 17, 2002, at his home in St. Paul, MN. While the world of art will miss an illustrious figure, his family mourns the loss of a generous and supportive father and grandfather. He is survived by his sons, Stuart, San Francisco (Virginia), Phil
 ROSENBERG-Harold (Hal), 86, of New York City, devoted husband of Dorothy and brother of Martin, died July 2, 2002. A decorated First Lt. in the Army Air Force in WWII. He later helped establish U.S. Postal Service employee assistance programs. A wellknown and beloved member of Alcoholics An
 SAPINSLEY-Alvin. July 13th, aged 80 at the Motion Picture Retirement Home in Los Angeles. Television script writer since the start of television and twice an award winner. Survived by his sister Barbara. A memorial service will be held at the Writers Guild of America in Beverly Hills, Sunda
 George Biderman, who organized opposition to a plan by Robert Moses for a four-lane highway the length of Fire Island, N.Y., died on July 20 at his home on the West Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was throat cancer, his son, John Biderman, said. Fire Island, off Long
 Du BAIN-Myron. Former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Fireman's Fund Corporation, and a Director of American Express Corporation, passed away on July 18, 2002 at California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco, at the age of 79 years; survivors include his wife, Alic
 KURTZ-Melvin H. Loving husband of Sandra (nee Koss). Adored father of Lisa Kurtz Hatem, Glenn M. Kurtz and Jill Kurtz. Dear brother of Marilyn Miller and Harvey Kurtz. Cherished grandfather of Jessica and Tyler Hatem, and Kevin Kurtz. Beloved father-in-law of Peter Hatem, and Linda Ruma Kur
 LURIE-Jack. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its esteemed Administrative Committee member, Sanford Lurie. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President       
 ROTHMAN-Murray. Retired organizer for District 65 UAW, died on July 24, 2002 at age 91. Survived by his beloved daughters, Deborah and Judith, and son-in-law Russell P. Reeder III. In lieu of flowers, please send a donation to the organization of your choice. Memorial service to be held at 
 SINKOFF-Marvin, M.D. The Mount Sinai Medical Center expresses profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Paul E. Klotman, M.D. Chairman, Dept. of Medicine       
 WATSKY-Dr. Howard F. ''Poppy'' of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Lawrence, LI on July 24, 2002; Beloved husband of Rhoda and now joins the late Francine to whom he was married 50 years; Loving father of Dr. Steven (Sharon) and Claude Watsky; Cherished grandfather of six and great-grandfather o
 KLEIN-Felix. 1/17/1911 to 7/26/1994. On the 30th anniversary of his founding of The National Society for Graphology, we remember him with love and gratitude. Janice       
 Paul Revere, to whom Boston turned repeatedly whenever it wanted to celebrate a direct link to his Colonial ancestor's midnight ride, died on Wednesday at his home in Braintree, Mass. He was 85. Mr. Revere, a Boston milkman for 30 years, was a fourth-generation descendant of the Pau
 Richard T. Liddicoat, an executive of the Gemological Institute of America who was behind the four C's method of grading diamonds now familiar to couples around the world, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84. Mr. Liddicoat's legacy was a grading system ''used by je
 Robert Giard, a photographer who took hundreds of portraits of gay and lesbian writers, died on July 16 en route to Chicago. He was 62 and lived in Amagansett, N.Y. He was traveling by bus from Minneapolis and died of what appeared to be a heart attack, said his companion, Jonathan 
 Walter C. McCrone, a chemical analyst who used his microscope to conclude that the Shroud of Turin never enveloped the body of Jesus and that a famous ancient map belonging to Yale University is probably a fake, died on July 10 in Chicago, long his hometown. He was 86. Dr. McCrone, 
 Clark Gesner, the composer and lyricist of ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown,'' the good-natured and oft-produced musical based on the ''Peanuts'' comic strip, died on Tuesday on a visit to the Princeton Club in Manhattan, of which he was a member. He was 64. The cause was a heart 
 Joe Derise, a former big band singer and a cabaret artist in New York for many years, died on June 24 in a hospice in Shelton, Conn. He was 76 and lived in Derby, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. At age 21 Mr. Derise became Tommy Dorsey's vocalist. Later he perfo
 Mel Triplett, the fullback for the Giants' 1956 National Football League champions, died Thursday in a nursing home in Toledo, Ohio. He was 71. He died of complications from diabetes, a daughter, Teresa Triplett-Smith, said. The 1956 final was a memorable game in which the G
 BERKERY-Eugene X. Age 74, of Southbury, CT, died July 26, 2002, in Bethel, CT. He worked as a Vice President for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and served in the Army during WWII. Survivors include his wife Margaret (nee Lynch) Berkery, sons Eugene X. Berkery II, of Garden City, NY, Peter Berkery
 COHN-Herbert. Of McLean, Virginia. On July 26, 2002, at the age of 89. Beloved husband of Kathryn. Brother of Gilbert Corwin and the late Melvin Cohn. Cherished father of Elizabeth Kark Singer (Sanford) and adored grandfather of Robert Charles Kark (Renee) and Michael David Singer. From the
 KOON-Joseph R., Jr, passed away July 24, 2002 at the age of 64. Born Janary 24, 1938, he had been a former 56 year resident of New York City. He is survived by his wife Iderlina Acosta, children William Koon, Elizabeth Koon and Christopher T. Koon, and two granddaughters. Service will be he
 Rudiger Dornbusch, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology whose explanation of why currency exchange rates sometimes fluctuate sharply became a tenet of international economics, died on Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 60 and also had a home in Boston. T
 India's vice president, Krishan Kant, who fought against both British rule and Indira Gandhi's suspension of democracy, in 1975, died today, just short of the end of his term. He was 75. The cause of death was a heart attack, said a spokesman for the All India Institute of Medical S
 APPEL-John W. July 26, 2002. Dr. John W. Appel, age 91, formerly of Radnor, PA. Husband of Marian K. Appel. Also survived by his children Deborah Appel Chomiw, Kenneth G. Appel, Lydia Appel Forbes and five grandchildren. Funeral services will be held 12 noon, July 31, 2002, at St. Martin's 
 BERNSTEIN-Philip H. 95, born November 19, 1906, passed away July 26, 2002, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Philip graduated from NYU in 1931, where he was a member of the National Championship Track Team. Philip was a major contributor to the textile industry as the originator of crushed velvet beds
 BIDERMAN-George. Writer, activist, conservationist, progressive humanist. After a long illness, and caring for his beloved wife and partner, Beth, to the end, George died peacefully and on his own terms at home July 20, 2002. Trained as a social scientist, worked as a journalist and creativ
 BOURQUIN - Pierre. Forty four year resident of Bronxville, NY, died of Multiple Myeloma at home in Marlboro, MA on July 4. Husband of Shirley, father of Colette Nygren and Pierson, grandfather of Annika and Alexandra. A graduate of Middlesex School and Yale Class of 1957, he was an Account 
 CALLAN-Desmond, M.D. Of Hillsdale, NY, passed away July 22 at home, with members of his family-wife, Georgene Gardner, his daughter Lyndie Callan, and son, Rich Callan, around him. Survivors include sisters Cristine Callan of Cambridge, MA, and Mary Bailey of Concord, MA, stepson Jason Gard
 CARROLL-Frank D., M.D., Emeritus Professor. The Department of Ophthomology mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague Emeritus Professor Frank D. Carroll, M.D. on July 24, 2002. He had been associated with the Eye Institute throughout his career as a leader in research in diseases of the opt
 DERISE-Joseph P., 76. Arranger, songwriter, recording artist & jazz pianist in the New York Cabaret scene, formerlly of New York City, died on July 23, 2002, in Connecticut. Survived by his children James Derise of Yonkers and Fay Richardson of Poughkeepsie, two grandchildren, a sister Vivi
 EDELMAN-Jules. On July 26, 2002. Beloved son of the late Harry and Sonia. Loving brother of Stanley and Melvin. Dear brother-in-law of Gladys and Florence. Cherished uncle of Harris, Ian, Zachary and Karen. He will be profoundly missed. Service Monday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th S
 GARDNER-Kenneth A. Of Plandome, NY, on July 26, 2002. Featured vocalist for the Guy Lombardo Orchestra. Beloved husband of the late Elaine. Dear uncle to several nieces and nephews. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, on Sunday, 3-5 and 7-9 PM, and Mond
 GORDIAN-Carmelo. December 20, 1913-July 24, 2002. Survived by his wife, Nerida, his children, 23 grandchildren and 27 great-grandchildren.       
 JANOWITZ-Abe. Peacefully passed away in his 95th year in K.C., MO., on July 12. The long-time NYC resident was a revered educator, accomplished lyricist and respected poet. He was a loving husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his sons Bob Janowitz and Ken Jordan (nee Janowitz)
 LABINGER-Marvin, Rabbi. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He served for thirty years as a career chaplain in the United States Air Force and retired with the rank of colonel in 1990 when he assumed the position of Executive Director of the Pacific Southwest
 LANDES-James S. Born February 29, 1908 died July 22, 2002. A unique man, young despite his 94 years, who sparkled with intelligence, humor, and grace. He was loved and admired by a devoted family, and by all those who provided him with endearing care. He lived a full and remarkable life, an
 LOEWE-Leonard A. Passed away July 25, 2002. He is survived by his wife Zita and daughters Christie Gombar, Robin Purpura, Claudia Faust and Victoria Loewe. He also leaves behind two grandchildren, Michael and David Purpura, and his sister Jacqueline Fowler. Donations may be made to the Fair
 MANSFIELD-John. Beloved son of Anne. Brother of Bruce. Grandson of Marjorie and Dick Mansfield. Will be remembered fondly for his generous spirit and sensitivity to others. Donations: Senator Wellstone, PO Box 14377, St Paul, MN 55114, attn: Fawn.       
 PINE-Milton, July 25, 2002, age 86. Lifelong resident of New Rochelle, NY. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Devoted father to Philip and Lisa. Cherished grandfather of Taryn and Jake, a loving uncle and loyal friend to many. He will be greatly missed.       
 REED-Marshall. Age 82, of Mineola, on July 26, 2002. Survived by his beloved wife Gertrude, son Robert, daughter Nancy and four grandchildren. The family will receive visitors at home Sunday and Monday, 2-4 PM and 7:30-9:30 PM. Private interment.       
 SCHIFFER-Morton A., MD. Physician, teacher, humanitarian, passed away peacefully at his home on July 26, 2002. Dr. Schiffer is survived by his wife Ruth, daughters Peggy Schiffer Noland, Holly Schiffer Zucker and son-inlaw Jeff Zucker; grandsons Sam Noland and Harry Zucker. Dr. Schiffer's f
 SUPPLEE-Brooke E. 82. Died July 11, 2002. He and wife Bonnie owned Unique Manhattan Townhouses, Chelsea. Memorial services Friday, August 2, 2002, 11:30 A.M. Trinity Church Chapel, 770 Riverside Dr., NYC.       
 VANDERHEIDEN-Mark A. On July 25, 2002 at Calvary Hospital NYC. Born in Madision, Wisconsin on December 12, 1948. Former manager of The Black Hawk Country Club, Madison, Chicago Yacht Club, Crickets and the NYU Club. Realtor since 1985. Preceded in death by his mother MaryRose. Survived by h
 WALKER - Harry. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Dearest father of Sandra and Howard, and Marion and Sid Cohen. Darling Poppy of Terri, Melissa, Robert and Liza Cohen, Jonathan, Bridget, Samuel and Stacey Walker. Loving great-grandfather of Ava and Benjamin Cohen. Devoted brother and uncl
 WILLETT-Bradford J., M.D., 94, a family physician for many years in Fox Lake, IL, died at home peacefully in his sleep on July 21, 2002.       
 YOSHIMURA-Fumio. Artist and teacher, died, July 23 of complications from pancreatic cancer. He was 76. Fumio loved women, baseball, and meals shared with friends; literature, Mozart, and the streets of New York; movies, conversation and the towns of Italy. In his 11 years on the faculty of 
 Pete Seibert, who transformed a sheep pasture in the Colorado Rockies into the Vail ski resort, died July 15 at his home in Edwards, Colo. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said Jennifer Brown, a spokeswoman for Vail Resorts. In 2000, Ski magazine placed Mr. Seibert third on 
 Dr. Bertram D. Cohn, a pioneering pediatric surgeon and the inventor of an early filter used to prevent pulmonary embolism, a common and often fatal condition, died on July 12 in Greenport, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Jonathan. Dr. Cohn, a resi
 Dr. George E. Lindsay, who as director of the California Academy of Sciences helped turn its Natural History Museum into a major institution, died on July 16 at his home in Tiburon, Calif., near San Francisco. He was 85. Dr. Lindsay was the director of the academy, in San Francisco,
 APPEL-John W. July 26, 2002. Dr. John W. Appel, age 91, formerly of Radnor, PA. Husband of Marian K. Appel. Also survived by his children Deborah Appel Chomiw, Kenneth G. Appel, Lydia Appel Forbes and five grandchildren. Funeral services will be held 12 noon, July 31, 2002, at St. Martin's 
 DUCKWORTH - Frank. On July 26, 2002, at his residence in Vienna, VA. He was the husband of Katherine Alexander Duckworth, father of John and Katherine R. Duckworth, and grandfather of Sara and Alex Duckworth and Rebecca and Austin Johntra. Mr. Duckworth was with the legal department of Pfiz
 GROMET - Maurice Turk, M.D. On July 26, 2002, after a brief illness in his 93rd year. A graduate of the The George Washington University Medical School (1934) whereafter he was President for many years of its Alumni Association. Under his leadership the G.W. Alumni Association developed a n
 HAMPTON-Colin Campbell. Of Amelia Island, Florida, a former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of UNUM Corporation, parent company of UNUM Life Insurance Company, died on Wednesday, July 24, 2002, in a local hospital. Mr. Hampton died after heart surgery. He was 79. Under Mr.
 HARTMAN-Elliott. 67, died on July 28, at the home of his sister, Lynn Hartman Alpert, wife of State Supreme Court Justice Bruce D. Alpert. Mr. Hartman was very devoted to Lynn, his brother Richard, his nephew Michael Alpert, his niece Lauren Alpert Grossman, her husband Craig, and his cousi
 HAWKS-David M. Of Manhattan, passed away on July 26, leaving behind his sweetheart Vendolyn Codner and two daughters, Jennifer and Dana Hawks, brothers Jim and Neil, and sister Virginia Hart. Viewing will be at Grace Congregational Church in Harlem, July 30, 10-11 AM. Services 11-noon.     
 KRAMER-Darryl J. Born May 20, 1947, died July 27, 2002. Beloved husband of Engie Lee Kramer. Cherished father of Courtney Kramer, Vanessa Kramer and Kane Lee. Dear son of Shirley Kramer. Dear brother of Ted Kramer. He was best friend and father and brother to all who knew him, a brilliant a
 LESSER-Stanley C. Died July 28, 2002, at the age of 72. Beloved husband of Diana Lesser and the late Elaine Lesser. Brother of Leonard Lesser (Bernice). Devoted father of Dr. Karen Lesser (Greg Manninen), Susan Lesser (Andrew Campbell) and David Lesser (Danielle Lesser). Adoring grandfather
 MAGNER-Max. July 27, 2002. Born March 18, 1918, Brooklyn, NY. Adoring and loving husband of Ethel. Father of Norman, Lois and Marge. Father-in-law of Ava and KiHan Kim. Grandfather of Andrew, Matthew, Stephanie and Oliver. New York City police officer for 25 years. Celebrated 60th wedding a
 ROEBUCK-Laurence. 86, of Sunrise, FL, passed away on July 23, 2002. He is survived by his beloved wife Lucille of 61 years; his loving son Dr. Gary (Cindy) Roebuck; grandchildren Michelle (Scott) Rotblat, Lainie and Brett; great-grandchild Austin Rotblat. Services were held on July 25. Dona
 SCHIFFER-Morton A., M.D. The staff of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of the New York Methodist Hospital mourns the loss of our longtime friend and colleague, Mort Schiffer. An outstanding and compassionate clinician, a superb teacher, a strong advocate for the underserved and a
 TARLOW-Jeffrey Abraham. Of Port Washington, New York, on July 27, 2002, after a courageous lifelong battle with tuberous sclerosis. Jeffrey never had a day without seizures, but still found reason to smile and make those around him happy. Jeffrey loved sports, and even completed the 1996 NY
 Dr. Morton A. Schiffer, who was chairman of the obstetric advisory committee to New York City's health commissioner from 1972 to 1982, died on Friday at his home in West Norwalk, Conn. He was 88. Dr. Schiffer was a clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Yale's School of 
 Ed Runge, an American League umpire from 1954 through 1970 and the father and grandfather of major league umpires, died Friday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 87. His son, Paul Runge, was a National League umpire from 1974 through 1997 and, for the next two years, the National Le
 BABB-Sylvia. The Trustees and Staff of The NYC Police Foundation express its most sincere sympathy to Edward J. Babb, on the passing of his wife, Sylvia. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. NYC Police Foundation Inc George D. Benjamin, Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President  
 BIERMAN-Marvin W. MD. age 64 of Fairfax, VA, formerly of Pomona, NY. Died from Cancer on July 27. He is survived by his beloved wife Baila, children Naomi, Howard and Bernard, son-in-law Richard, and a large circle of loving family and friends. He graduated from NYU Medical School in 1962, 
 CHERNUCHIN-Paul, Ph.D. Of Palm Beach Gardens, FL. and New York, N.Y. died Saturday, July 27, 2002 at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center. He was 80 years old. Paul leaves behind his wife Elayne Link, his children, Michael and Cindy and their spouses Janis Diamond and Dan Barsky, his grandchil
 FEINBERG - Maurice. On July 27, 2002. At age 82. Devoted husband of Carol Jaffa Feinberg. Loving father of Nancy Feinberg and John Tobin, Hope and Paul Schroy and David and Marsha Feinberg. Proud grandfather of Gregory, Brian, Jacob, Rebecca, Charles, Nina, and James. Beloved brother of Fra
 GROMET-Maurice, Dr. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Dr. Maurice Gromet. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, Pres. GROMET-Maurice. A warmer, sweeter, gentler man we have ne
 LEE-Charles A. Of Manhattan, retired AMOCO executive, died Friday of cancer. He was 81 years old, born in Arkansas. Mr. Lee attended USC prior to serving in the Army 12th Armored Division during WWII. Surviving are his two sisters in Jonesboro, AR, ten nieces and nephews and their children.
 LESSER-Stanley C. Died July 28, 2002, at the age of 72. Beloved husband of Diana Lesser and the late Elaine Lesser. Brother of Leonard Lesser (Bernice). Devoted father of Dr. Karen Lesser (Greg Manninen), Susan Lesser (Andrew Campbell) and David Lesser (Danielle Lesser). Adoring grandfather
 SCHWARTZ-Harold O., 82, of Sarasota, FL, died Wednesday, July 24, 2002. He was a member of Forest Hills Jewish Center. Graveside services will be held on Sunday, August 4 at 2 PM at Mt. Hebron Cemetery in Queens, NY. For further information, contact Toale Brothers Gulf Gate Chapel in Saraso
 SCHWARTZ-Isidore (Irving), formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died on July 26, 2002, at NSUH Manhasset. He was 86. He is survived by his wife Rose, his children Susan Grab and Louis Schwartz, his four grandchildren, Deborah and Caryn Grab and Robert and David Schwartz. He served as an officer of wha
 TAUBER-Laszlo M.D. Died July 28, 2002 of congestive heart failure at his home in Potomac MD. He was 87 years old. He is survived by his wife Diane, his son Dr. Alfred Tauber, his daughter Dr. Ingrid Tauber, his stepdaughter Rachael Tauber and four grandchildren; Joel, Dylan, Benjamin and Ha
 Wallace Carroll, a retired newspaper editor and publisher who campaigned against the Vietnam War and led his paper to a Pulitzer Prize for environmental reporting, died on Sunday in a nursing home in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 95. Mr. Carroll had first joined The Winston-Salem Journ
 Kenny Gardner, the light-voiced, cheerfully smooth tenor who for almost 30 years was the featured crooner with Guy Lombardo and His Royal Canadians, died on Friday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Plandome, N.Y. The cause of death was a heart attack soon after having an app
 Laszlo Tauber, a Hungarian-born surgeon who saved other Jews in the Budapest ghetto during World War II, then made a real estate fortune in Washington and became a major philanthropist while remaining virtually unknown to the public, died on Sunday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 87.    
 Maurice Denham, a British character actor whose face was familiar in movies and television but who achieved his greatest fame playing a gallery of characters in the hit British radio shows ''It's That Man Again'' and ''Much Binding in the Marsh,'' died last Wednesday in London. He was 92.  
 BABCOCK-Henry Nash. Henry Nash Babcock, 77, of Old Greenwich, CT. died on July 30, at Edgehill Life Care in Stamford, CT. after a long illness. His wife of 52 years, Mary King Babcock of Old Greenwich & their 6 children survive him: The Reverend Theodore S. Babcock, Warner K. Babcock, Mary 
 BLAINE-Sidney P., age 84. of Sarasota, died July 28, 2002. He was born August 28, 1917, New York City and came to Sarasota in 1998 from Orlando. He was the owner of a men's sportswear establishment and had served in the Army Air Force during World War II. He was a member of the City Athleti
 CAROLAN-Richard V. Retired Chairman and CEO of Martindale-Hubbell Publishing Company, died Saturday, July 27, 2002, at New York's Memorial Sloan - Kettering Hospital at age 75 after a long battle with prostate cancer. He was a resident of Long Beach Island NJ and Thousand Oaks CA. Mr. Carol
 CROOKS - Edwin Smith. Member of The American Stock Exchange. On July 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Brooks Cushman. Loving father of Edwin and William. Devoted son of Marie Crooks and the late Edwin S. Crooks, Sr. Loving brother of Kathleen Ball and Michael Crooks. Cherished grandfather of Ev
 GESNER-Clark. The Princeton University Class of 1960 mourns the passing of one of its most talented members. As the creator of the show ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown'', Clark also contributed to 1960's major reunions, leaving his creative imprint on each gathering. His warm humor & eng
 KANREK-Sidney. Of Brooklyn, NY, born in Poland in 1906, passed away peacefully at home on July 30, 2002 after a wonderful and eventful life. Beloved husband of the late Aurelia, cherished father of Marilyn and Victoria, devoted grandfather of David, he was always a loving & caring person. F
 LAGUARDIA-Kendrick M. Age 33 of Orlando. Passed away July 26, 2002 in Orlando. He was born December 10, 1968 in Nyack, NY and has resided in Orlando the past eight years. He attended Florida State University and was a member of Kappa Alpha Fraternity. Ken was a homebuilder and enjoyed airbo
 LESSER-Stanley. The Conservative Synagogue of Fifth Avenue mourns the loss of Stanley Lesser, founding member and long term Trustee. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi David Gaffney LESSER-Stanley. In revered memory of his stalwart personification of the ideal in alumni 
 NOLAN-L. Douglas, 79. Died on July 29, 2002, at his residence in East Haddam, CT. The funeral will assemble at 10 AM Thursday at the Fulton-Theroux Funeral Home, 13 Beckwith Lane, Old Lyme, CT., and proceed to a 11 AM Mass of Christian Burial in Christ the King Church, Lyme St., Old Lyme. E
 QUADRACCI-Harry. The publishing industry has lost a man of integrity, love and a giving spirit. He was truly a special person who will be missed. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Betty and his family. Nina Link, President and CEO Magazine Publishers of America       
 ROHMAN - Michael, M.D. The Administration, Community Advisory Boards, Auxiliaries and Medical Staff of Jacobi Medical Center and North Central Bronx Hospital mourn the untimely death of Dr. Michael Rohman, Thoracic Surgery, Trauma and Critical Care Attending and Professor of Surgery. Dr. Ro
 TAUBER-Laszlo, Dr. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Dr. Laszlo Tauber, a Holocaust survivor and long time ADL supporter. Through his philanthropy, Dr. Tauber demonstrated his commitment to the Jewish people, the State of Israel and to Holocaust education. We extend our con
 WINOKUR-Bruce R. July 29, 2002. We note with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, for whom choral music and computers were abiding joys, and the practice of law was a challenge at which he excelled. Bruce will be sorely missed. All of us at Jackson & Nash, LLP offer our
