 Edward S. Behr, a former war correspondent who covered conflicts around the world for nearly three decades and who wrote books about notable and sometimes notorious figures in 20th-century history, died Saturday in Paris, where he lived. He was 81. The death was confirmed by Christo
 Jean-Claude Brialy, a dashing leading man of the French New Wave films of the 1960s and '70s, died Wednesday in Paris. He was 74. His death, of cancer, was confirmed by the president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, who praised his ''finesse and his light spirit.'' The former president, 
 William Meredith, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet who used the rigorous constraints of meter and rhyme to subdue some of the most uncontrollable aspects of the human condition -- fear, loneliness, destiny, mortality -- died Wednesday in New London, Conn. He was 88 and had homes in Uncasville,
 Huang Ju, a Politburo member who rose out of Shanghai's political elite to become one of the most powerful leaders in China, died Saturday morning after a long illness, state news media reported. Mr. Huang was 68. Mr. Huang's health, as well as his political fate, had been the subje
 Mark Harris, who took readers on a literary journey through the life of a mythical baseball player in four well-received novels, including ''Bang the Drum Slowly,'' which became the basis of a 1973 movie, died Wednesday. He was 84 and lived in Goleta, Calif. His death, at a hospital
 Wallace Seawell, a celebrity photographer whose West Hollywood home was for decades one of the country's most productive glamour factories, turning out thousands of portraits of movie stars, singers, presidents, kings and Gabor sisters (all three), died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 90.
 Warren M. Anderson, a longtime Republican leader in the New York State Senate who helped to bail New York City out of its fiscal crisis in the mid-1970s, died yesterday at Wilson Regional Medical Center in Johnson City, N.Y. He was 91 and lived in Dickinson. The cause of death was h
 The Rev. Dr. John Macquarrie, an influential theologian whose graceful writing and sagacious melding of existentialist philosophy with orthodox Christian thought offered intellectually penetrating rationales for belief in God, died on May 28 in Oxford, England, where he lived. He was 87.   
 William F. Whitman Jr., a self-taught horticulturist who became renowned for collecting rare tropical fruits from around the world and popularizing them in the United States, died Wednesday at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Whitman, who had suffered strokes and a heart
 Ed Yost, who fastened two propane tanks to what essentially looked like a lawn chair, attached that contraption to a 40-foot-diameter orange-striped nylon balloon and sailed above the Nebraska plain on a brisk fall day in 1960, becoming ''the father of modern hot-air ballooning,'' died May 
 The Rev. David Kirk, an Eastern Orthodox priest who spent most of his adult life working with New York City's disenfranchised, died on May 23 at Emmaus House, the communal residence for the homeless that he founded in Harlem more than 40 years ago. He was 72. Father Kirk, who had be
 William Silver, whose 1975 application for ordination in the United Presbyterian Church -- the first by an openly gay man -- set off a continuing debate in the church over admitting homosexuals into the ministry, died on May 26. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was compli
 Bill France Jr., who took over Nascar from his father when it was a regional stock-car racing attraction and transformed it into a multibillion-dollar enterprise with a national presence, died Monday at his home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 74. The death was disclosed Monday during
 Clete Boyer, the sharp-fielding third baseman who played on Yankees teams that won five consecutive pennants in the 1960s, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 70. The cause was a stroke, said his brother Cloyd, a former major league pitcher. When the Yankees played the St. Lou
 Samuel A. Garrison III, who as chief Republican counsel to the House Judiciary Committee in its Watergate investigation in 1974 argued against the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on May 27 near his home in Roanoke, Va. He was 65. The cause was leukemia, Mr. Garrison'
 Charles Evans, a founder of the fashion house Evan-Picone and who was also executive producer of the film ''Tootsie,'' died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his sister, Alice Shure, said. Mr. Evans, a native New Yorker, served in th
 Charles William Maynes, a longtime editor of Foreign Policy magazine who was also a former assistant secretary of state, died on Saturday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Gretchen Maynes. Published by the Carnegie Endowment for 
 Senator Craig Thomas, a Wyoming Republican who combined a deep love of Western rural life with a 23-year public career in his home state and Washington, died Monday evening in Bethesda, Md. He was 74 and had homes in Casper, Wyo., and Arlington, Va. The cause was acute myeloid leuke
 D. Nelson Adams, a former managing partner of Davis Polk & Wardwell, one of the nation's most prominent law firms, died on Thursday at his home in Barneveld, N.Y. He was 97 and also had a home in Manhattan. The death was confirmed by his son, Daniel N. Adams Jr. A specialist
 Donald Johanos, a former music director of the Dallas and Honolulu Symphonies and a prominent member of the generation of American conductors who emerged after World War II, died in Naples, Fla., on May 29. He was 79. He died at home after a long illness, said his son-in-law DJ McDo
 Steven Gilliard Jr., a political journalist who found his calling as a combative and influential blogger on the left, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 42. He died after having been hospitalized at Lenox Hill Hospital since February because of heart and kidney failure, said his 
 Arnold Lappert, the Army radio technician in Hawaii who received the last messages from the island of Corregidor before its surrender to the Japanese in May 1942, and nearly four years later realized a quest to find the fellow New Yorker who sent those final desperate words, died Friday in 
 Jim Clark, the former sheriff in Selma, Ala., whose violent, highly public attempts to maintain the status quo there in the Jim Crow era are widely believed to have contributed, however inadvertently, to the success of the voting rights movement, died Monday in Elba, Ala. He was 84 and had 
 Martin Meyerson, a former president of the University of Pennsylvania and the State University of New York at Buffalo, died on Saturday near his home in Philadelphia. In 1965, he helped calm tensions as acting chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, in the demonstrations of th
 Dr. Harvey R. Colten, a pediatric immunologist and a leading medical educator at Columbia University whose research helped isolate a gene tied to respiratory failure in infants, died on May 24 in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was complications of colon cancer, his family said.    
 Larry Leon Hamlin, the founder and executive director of the National Black Theater Festival, a gathering for theater professionals and an influential showcase for artists, died Wednesday at his home in Pfafftown, N.C. He was 58. Mr. Hamlin's wife, Sylvia Sprinkle-Hamlin, said the d
 Edwin Traisman, a food scientist who helped standardize McDonald's French fries and develop Cheez Whiz for Kraft Foods, as well as researching the risks of E. coli bacteria, died Tuesday in Madison, Wis. He was 91 and lived in Monona, Wis. The cause was heart disease, his daughter J
 Les Schwab, a Western tire tycoon who turned a small shop he bought in 1952 into one of the most respected brands in the industry, died on May 18 in Prineville, Ore. He was 89. Mr. Schwab's death came after several months of declining health, according to a company statement.       
 Homer J. Stewart, an aerospace engineer and rocket propulsion expert who in 1958 helped launch the first successful American satellite, Explorer 1, while he kept tabs on rival efforts by the Russians, died on May 26 at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 91. Dr. Stewart's death was 
 Dr. John P. McGovern, a Houston allergist and real-estate investor whose philanthropy helped endow medical facilities at Duke University, the Texas Medical Center and other institutions, died on May 31 in Galveston, Tex. He was 85. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. D
 Ousmane Sembène, the Senegalese filmmaker and writer who was a crucial figure in Africa's postcolonial cultural awakening, has died at his home in Dakar, Senegal. His family, which announced his death on Sunday, said Mr. Sembène had been ill since December. He was 84. Widely seen 
 Richard Rorty, whose inventive work on philosophy, politics, literary theory and more made him one of the world's most influential contemporary thinkers, died Friday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 75. The cause was complications from pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Mary Varney Rorty.
 Don Herbert, who unlocked the wonders of science for youngsters of the 1950s and '60s as television's Mr. Wizard, died yesterday at his home in the Bell Canyon section of Los Angeles. He was 89. The cause was bone cancer, his son-in-law Tom Nikosey told The Associated Press in confi
 Baron Guy de Rothschild, the patriarch of the French branch of the famous banking dynasty who rebuilt and expanded its Paris bank after it was seized during World War II and then saw it survive another government takeover in the 1980s, died Tuesday in Paris. He was 98. The Rothschil
 Rudolf Arnheim, a distinguished psychologist, philosopher and critic whose work explored the cognitive basis of art -- how we interpret it and, by extension, the world -- died on Saturday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 102. The death was confirmed by his daughter, Margaret N
 Kurt Waldheim, the former United Nations secretary general and president of Austria whose hidden ties to Nazi organizations and war crimes were exposed late in his career, died yesterday at his home in Vienna. He was 88. His death was announced by his wife, Elisabeth, and the office
 Leonard F. Pickell Jr., the former president of the James Beard Foundation who was imprisoned for stealing from it after years of promoting it as one of the nation's top culinary institutions, died on Wednesday at his home in Howell, N.J. He was 53. A private autopsy determined that
 Martin J. Weber, a graphic artist, typographer and art director who invented a widely adopted technique that gave two-dimensional images the illusion of appearing in three dimensions, died last Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 102. His death was announced by his son, Dr. Ca
 Randolph F. Dial, an artist and confessed hit man who fled a life sentence for murder to spend nearly 11 years on the run with a deputy warden's wife, died Wednesday in the infirmary of the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester. He was 62. A prison spokeswoman announced the death
 William C. Mercer, the former president and chairman of the New England Telephone Company, died on June 6 in Westwood, Mass. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, his son Robert said. Mr. Mercer started his career as an auditor and eventually climbed up the ranks to become
 Charles Lee Remington, the intellectual patriarch of modern American lepidopterology, the scientific study of butterflies and moths, died on May 31 in Hamden, Conn. He was 85. His death was confirmed by his wife, Ellen Mahoney. Dr. Remington, a professor at Yale University f
 Israel Shenker, a scholar trapped in a newsman's body who was known to readers of The New York Times for his vast erudition and sly, subversive wit, died on June 9 at Kibbutz Shoval in southern Israel. He was 82. Mr. Shenker, who had recently been in declining health, died in his sl
 Gianfranco Ferré, the Italian fashion designer noted for a consistently singular vision in his signature ready-to-wear collection and for opening the doors of French haute couture to foreign-born designers, died Sunday night in Milan. He was 62. After suffering a brain hemorrhage o
 Robert Tracy, a prolific dance writer, died on June 7 in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was complications of infection with H.I.V., said his sister, Mary Ellen Tracy. Mr. Tracy's first book, ''Balanchine's Ballerinas: Conversations With the Muses,'' was published by Simon &
 Sir Wally Herbert, the first man to walk across the icebound Arctic Ocean and, some contend, the first to reach the North Pole on foot, a feat long credited to Rear Adm. Robert E. Peary, died Tuesday in Scotland at 72. The cause was diabetes, said his daughter, Kari Herbert. Sir Wal
 Colin Fletcher, whose  ornate prose and prosaic tips on subjects like choosing the right  hiking boots helped start  the modern backpacking movement, died June 12 in Monterey, Calif. He  was 85. Mr. Fletcher died as a result of complications of head injuries he sustained in 2001 whe
 Thommie Walsh, a Tony-winning choreographer who also created the role of Bobby in the original production of ''A Chorus Line,'' died Saturday at his mother's home in Auburn, N.Y. He was 57. The cause was complications of lymphoma, said his manager, Robert Duva. As a dance-ma
