 A.J. Richard, whose contagious enthusiasm for new gadgets transformed P.C. Richard & Son from a hardware store into a major retailer of consumer appliances and electronics, died on Dec. 28 in West Islip, N.Y. He was 95 and lived in Bay Shore and Port St. Lucie, Fla. The cause was pn
 Charles Biederman, an American Modernist painter, sculptor and theorist who made his mark in New York in the 1930's, died on Sunday at his home in Red Wing, Minn. He was 98. His death was announced by Lyndel King, director of the Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum at the University of 
 Peter Davison, the poet and editor who was the grandly youthful historic memory of literary Boston, died on Wednesday at his home on Beacon Hill. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Over 40 years, from the time his first collection, ''The Breaking of
 Wai-kam Ho, an art historian and curator considered one of the world's leading authorities on Chinese art, died on Tuesday in Shanghai. He was 80 and lived in Pittsburgh. The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said. At the time of his death, Mr. Ho was a guest curator a
 Dr. William A. Silverman, a physician whose studies of newborns at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center helped alter the treatment of premature infants and gave many parents greater say in their babies' fates, died on Dec. 16 at his home in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 87. The cause was
 Joseph Durso, a former sportswriter and editor at The New York Times and the author of many books on sports history, died Friday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, N.Y. Mr. Durso, who lived in Nissequogue, N.Y., was 80. The cause was cancer, his wife, Margaret, said. Mr.
 Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat who spent his early childhood in internment camps for Japanese-Americans and served for 26 years in the House, died Saturday night at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 63. The cause of death was pneumonia
 Steven Parrino, an artist and musician who imbued abstract work in several mediums with a relentless if oddly energetic punk nihilism, died early Saturday morning in a traffic accident near his home in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. He was 46. Mr. Parrino was returning from a New Year's Eve 
 Arnold Denker, a former United States chess champion who also had some spectacular setbacks at the chess board and later chronicled the lives of some of the game's most colorful characters, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 90. The cause was brain cancer, sa
 Max Lowenthal, a longtime staff editor on the foreign desk of The New York Times, died on Thursday in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said Claire Cox, his wife. He worked as a copy editor for The Binghamton Sun, The Buffalo Evening News and The New
 Frank Kelly Freas, an artist and illustrator whose work included luminous images of amiable aliens beloved by science-fiction fans, the jug-eared visage of Alfred E. Neuman for Mad magazine and the crew shoulder patch for Skylab I astronauts, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He wa
 John F. Lawrence, who led The Los Angeles Times in creating one of the first separate business sections in a general-interest newspaper, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Kathleen Hale, who said he did not smoke. In
 Will Eisner, an innovative comic-book artist who created the Spirit, a hero without superpowers, and the first modern graphic novel, ''A Contract With God,'' died on Monday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he lived. He was 87. His death came after quadruple bypass surgery, said Denis
 Gerard Debreu, the winner of the 1983 Nobel in economic sciences for his research on the balance of supply and demand, died Friday in Paris. Mr. Debreu, who was 83, died of natural causes, according to a statement released yesterday by the University of California, Berkeley, where h
 Dr. Maclyn McCarty, the last surviving member of a Manhattan scientific team that overturned medical dogma in the 1940's and became the first to demonstratethat genes were made of DNA, died on Sunday. He was 93 and lived in New York. His death was announced by Rockefeller University
 Guy Davenport, a many-sided author, painter, teacher and scholar whose work, while ranging from critical essays to translations to poetry, was perhaps most admired for short stories in the modernist tradition of Pound and Joyce, died on Tuesday in Lexington, Ky. He was 77 and lived in Lexin
 John A. Speziale, who helped modernize the Connecticut court system and served as its chief justice in the 1980's, died on Monday at his home in Torrington. He was 82. The cause was cancer, his family said. Justice Speziale, who served in all three branches of state governme
 George R. Wackenhut, a former F.B.I. agent who built the Wackenhut Corporation into an international security firm that promoted the use of private guards at prisons, airports and nuclear power plants, died on Dec. 31 at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 85. The cause was heart fa
 Richard McDermott Miller, a New York sculptor whose lifelike nudes have been exhibited internationally and are in private and museum collections around the country, died on Dec. 25 in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife
 Count Lennart Bernadotte, who gave up his royal Swedish title to marry a commoner but gained an Edenic island that he built into a tourist attraction, died on Dec. 21 on Mainau, the island he had gardened in Lake Constance, Germany, for over half a century. He was 95. The death was 
 H. Anthony Williamson, a scholar in human geography, who developed innovative techniques to help the indigenous inhabitants of Labrador and the Canadian Arctic press land claims and express their concerns to the government, died on Dec. 29 in St. John's, Newfoundland. He was 69. The
 Donald Pederson, a computer scientist who oversaw the creation of a widely used tool for the design of electronic circuits, died on Dec. 25 in Concord, Calif. He was 79. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Karen Pederson. Designers of computer chips need to kno
 George Fechtig Baughman, founding president of the experimental New College of Florida, died on Dec. 24 in Gainesville, Fla. He was 89. His death was announced by Gordon E. Michalson Jr., the college's current president. Mr. Baughman, a former treasurer of New York Universit
 R. Bruce McGill, an educator who led the development of two assessment tests widely used by private schools, died on Jan. 1 in Boston. He was 84 and lived in Westwood, Mass. The cause was heart failure, said his son Michael V. McGill, the schools superintendent in Scarsdale, N.Y.   
 Sheldon Hoard Kinney, a highly decorated rear admiral who commanded fighting vessels in three wars and later trained future seafarers at the State University of New York Maritime College and at the World Maritime University in Sweden, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 86.
 Arthur Rosenblatt, an architect who had a large hand in reshaping the Metropolitan Museum of Art and then helped give form to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, died Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The c
 James Forman, a civil rights pioneer who brought a fiercely revolutionary vision and masterly organizational skills to virtually every major civil rights battleground in the 1960's, died on Monday at a hospice in Washington. He was 76. The cause was colon cancer, his son Chaka Esmon
 Robert L. Heilbroner, an economist and writer of lively and provocative books that inspired generations of students with the drama of how the world earns, or fails to earn, its living -- books that made him one of his profession's all-time best-selling authors -- died on Jan. 4 in Manhattan
 Gordon K. Greenfield, whose QTV brand of teleprompters is used by the White House and in thousands of TV newsrooms, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Greenfield, a veteran business executive, bough
 Joseph S. Frelinghuysen, whose memoir, ''Passages to Freedom,'' chronicled his escape from a prison camp in Italy during World War II, died on Saturday in Morristown, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Far Hills, N.J. The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter Barbara F. Israel. Mr
 Richard W. Reuter, who helped shape the country's foreign relief efforts as an executive at CARE USA and then at the Food for Peace program, died last Friday in Lake Bluff, Ill. He was 86. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. Mr. Reuter (pronounced rooter) gained e
 S. Paul Ehrlich, an epidemiologist and public health officer who served as acting surgeon general during a long organizational reshuffling under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford, died on Jan. 6 in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 72. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. 
 Achille Maramotti, a leading fashion entrepreneur in postwar Italy who founded the clothing giant Max Mara then extended his prodigious energies to banking and building a collection of contemporary art, died on Wednesday at his home in Albinea, Italy. He was 78. His death was confir
 Jay Schulberg, the advertising executive who made milk hip by putting creamy mustaches on the famous and beautiful, died in Doylestown, Pa., on Jan. 12. He was 65, and until recently was a resident of Solebury, Pa. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Kathryn, who survive
 Jimmy Griffin, a founder of the soft-rock group Bread who helped write the Oscar-winning song ''For All We Know,'' died on Tuesday at his home in the Nashville suburb of Franklin, Tenn. He was 61. The cause was complications of cancer, family members told Country Music Television.  
 Frank E. Vandiver, a noted military historian, particularly of the Civil War era, died on Jan. 7 at his home in College Station, Tex., where he was president emeritus of Texas A&M University. He was 79. Dr. Vandiver's death was announced by the university. He had been ill with heart
 Gene Baylos, a hard-working nightclub comic of the old school whose gags were legend among fellow comedians, died on Monday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 98 and a Manhattan resident. His death was reported by his niece, Perry Matsa. Like countless comedians of 
 Charles H. Bell, the former president and chief executive of McDonald's, died of colorectal cancer in Sydney, Australia, today, the company announced. Mr. Bell was 44 and had been ill since May. He resigned his posts in November. ''Charlie Bell gave his all to McDonald's. Even durin
 Dennis Flanagan, who as editor of Scientific American magazine helped foster science writing for the general reader, died at his home in Manhattan on Friday. He was 85. The cause of death was prostate cancer, according to his wife, Barbara Williams Flanagan. Mr. Flanagan, wh
 Zhao Ziyang, the former general secretary of China's Communist Party who was stripped of power for supporting the students during their 1989 pro-democracy Tiananmen Square protests, died in a Beijing hospital on Monday, his family said. He was 85, and had been in a coma since Friday after s
 Alton Tobey, a muralist, portraitist and illustrator whose renderings of famous events and faces hang in museums, libraries, public buildings, corporate offices and private collections, died on Jan. 4 at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y., his family said. He was 90 and formerly lived in La
 Howard Feuer, a prominent casting director who filled roles for scores of Hollywood movies and Broadway shows, died on Dec. 20 at Hackensack Hospital in New Jersey. He was 56. The cause was colon cancer, said his mother, Gertrude Feuerstein. Mr. Feuer's credits include a lon
 Humphrey Carpenter, the English writer, editor, radio broadcaster and musician who wrote intimate biographies of Auden, Pound, J.R.R. Tolkien, Dennis Potter and Spike Milligan, among others, died on Jan. 4 in Oxford, England. He was 58. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, Ion Trewin
 Peter Zeisler, who helped found the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis and was for many years executive director of the Theater Communications Group, the national advocacy and service organization for nonprofit theaters, died on Sunday at his home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 81. The cau
 Arthur Walworth, a writer on American diplomatic history and an author of a Pulitzer-Prize winning life of Woodrow Wilson, died on Jan. 10 in Needham, Mass. A native and longtime resident of Newton, Mass., he was 101. His death was announced by Charles E. Holly, a partner in the Bos
 H. Bentley Glass, a biologist who in the 1950's and 60's led a ubiquitous career as writer, scientific policy maker and theorizer, with provocative and often prescient predictions about still-burning issues like genetics and nuclear war, died on Sunday in Boulder, Colo. His daughter
 Malcolm Brachman, a Texas businessman and onetime nuclear physicist who was among the first bridge enthusiasts to finance his own team, died on Jan. 11 at his daughter's home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 78 and until recently a Dallas resident. The cause was complications of pancreat
 Marshall Edelson, a Yale psychiatrist and author who received national attention in his field for his advocacy of scientific rigor in psychoanalysis, died on Sunday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 76. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Dr. Edels
 Walter B. Wriston, the former chairman of Citicorp who became the most influential banker of his generation by making his bank into the world's largest through a barrage of innovations, including the automated teller machine, died on Wednesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
 Herbert L. Abrons, a lawyer and businessman whose philanthropy centered on settlement houses like the one that had helped members of his family, died on Jan. 15 in Naples, Fla. He was 92 and had been a longtime resident of the Riverdale section of the Bronx. His death was announced 
 John L. Hess, a journalist, essayist and author whose often provocative, even cranky, opinions on subjects from food to France to the First Amendment appeared in The New York Times, a handful of books and radio commentary, died yesterday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 
 José Bezerra da Silva, a revered samba singer whose witty lyrics extolling the lives of street thugs and hustlers made him an inspiration to a generation of Brazilian hip-hop artists, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 77. The cause was heart failure after a severe lung infec
 Dr. Morris Simon, a Harvard radiologist and medical innovator who developed a widely used flexible filter to catch and dissolve clots in the bloodstream, died on Monday outside his home in Boston. He was 79. Dr. Simon had a history of heart problems, and the cause was apparently car
 Augustine R. Marusi, who steered Borden beyond milk and ice cream and into chemicals, an approach that ended the decline of the company's profits in the 1970's, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 91. The cause was cancer, his family said. In his 11 years 
 Warren Spears, a dancer with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and a modern-dance choreographer, died on Jan. 8 in Copenhagen. He was 50 and lived in Copenhagen. The cause was effects of treatment for multiple myeloma, said Rima Vargas-Vetter, a longtime friend. Mr. Spe
 Johnny Carson, the droll, puckish, near-effortless comedian who dominated late-night television for 30 years, tucking millions of Americans into bed as the host of the ''Tonight'' show, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was the effects of emphysema, family members 
 David Nyhan, a former political reporter, editor and influential columnist for The Boston Globe, died on Sunday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 64. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Olivia. Mr. Nyhan had collapsed after shoveling snow. Mr. Nyhan, w
 Dr. Frank Harary, a mathematician who wrote and lectured extensively on graph theory, a mathematical specialty often applied in computer science and other fields, died on Jan. 4 in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 83. The cause was a postoperative infection, his family said. Dr. Hara
 Ivor G. Balding, one of three British brothers who gained international fame as polo stars in the 1930's, when the sport attracted large crowds and wide press coverage, died on Thursday at his home in Camden, S.C. He was 96. His death was announced by his family. Mr. Balding
 Dr. William Trager, who opened a path for modern malaria research by discovering how to grow its most lethal parasite in the laboratory, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. The cause was believed to be a heart attack, his son, Leslie Trager, said. In 1976, 
 Philip Johnson, at once the elder statesman and the enfant terrible of American architecture, died Tuesday at the compound surrounding the Glass House, the celebrated residence he built for himself in New Canaan, Conn. He was 98. His death was disclosed by David Whitney, his compani
 William Augustus Bootle, who as a federal judge in 1961 set in motion a chain of legal decisions that in a single week desegregated the University of Georgia, died on Tuesday at his home in Macon, Ga. He was 102. Judge Bootle's family announced the death. Judge Bootle, appoi
 Dr. Sidney Carter, a Columbia University neurologist and clinician who helped to found and define the field of pediatric neurology in the 1950's, died on Jan. 16 in a nursing home in Mashpee, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 92. He had had a series of strokes, his family said. At 
 Max Velthuijs, a Dutch author and illustrator whose playful stories of Frog and friends have provided children worldwide with parables about prejudice, fear, charity and love, died on Tuesday in the Netherlands. He was 81 and lived in The Hague. The cause was lung cancer, his family
 Paul Nash, a composer and guitarist who created orchestral jazz works, site-specific compositions for New York public spaces and educational programs for New York public school students, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause w
 Donald V. North, who as head of the organized crime effort of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York in the 1990's helped devise and carry out strategies that led to the conviction of John J. Gotti and other organized crime leaders, died on Sunday after collapsing while driving in 
 Jim Capaldi, a drummer and songwriter who played with the classic British rock band Traffic on ''Feelin' Alright,'' ''You Can All Join In'' and other songs, died early yesterday in London. He was 60 and lived in Marlow, England. The cause was stomach cancer, said John Taylor, Mr. Ca
 Philip J. Friedman, a longtime Democratic political consultant whose list of clients included Edward I. Koch, Hugh L. Carey and John D. Rockefeller IV, was found dead in his Manhattan apartment on Thursday. He was 50. The cause of death was not made public, pending a medical examine
 William O. Bailey, an insurance executive who helped attract investors to many public projects by persuading the insurance industry to guarantee municipal bonds, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan and Moultonborough, N.H. 
 Jacob L. Trobe, who directed the care and resettlement of thousands of Holocaust survivors left adrift after World War II, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 93. His death was announced by his family. As a representative of the American Jewish Joint Distrib
 Lucien Carr, one of the founders -- and one of the last survivors -- of the Beat Generation of poets and writers, although one who never wrote poetry or novels, died on Friday. He was 79. Mr. Carr died at George Washington University Hospital after collapsing at his home in Washingt
 The Rev. Rufus A. Strother Jr., who led a predominantly African-American congregation in northern Westchester County for 38 years and was noted for his work to foster understanding between races and to improve community relations, particularly during the years of the civil rights movement, 
 Ephraim Kishon, a Holocaust survivor who became one of Israel's best-known humorists with his satirical books and movies popular here and in Europe, died at his home in Switzerland on Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, his family said. He was 80. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon spo
 Harley Baldwin, a sociable entrepreneur based in Aspen, Colo., whose high-profile dealings in real estate, restaurants and art helped define the ski resort literally and figuratively, died on Jan. 23 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 59. The cause was kid
