 Edward N. Hoffman, an advertising executive for 50 years who never retired, died on April 23 in Chicago. He was 79 and had moved to Chicago last year from New Canaan, Conn. Mr. Hoffman's specialty was promoting real estate developments and, in the 1980's, advertising condominiums co
 Leslie Stevens, a writer, director and producer who achieved success on Broadway, in Hollywood and on television with plays like ''The Marriage-Go-Round,'' films like ''The Left-Handed Gun'' and television series like ''The Outer Limits,'' died on April 24 in Los Angeles. He was 74.        
 Louis Peterson, the author of ''Take a Giant Step,'' a groundbreaking Broadway play of the early 1950's about a young black man growing up in a middle-class white neighborhood in New England, died on Monday at the Kateri Residence in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 76. Mr. Peterso
 Nizar Qabbani, who left life as a Syrian diplomat to become one of the Arab world's greatest poets, died today in London, where he lived. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Qabbani was revered by generations of Arabs for his sensual and romantic ve
 CRALLE-Joseph B. 2nd. Resident for 28 years of Upper Montclair, NJ, since 1980 of the Tides Lodge area of Virgina, died April 28 after a long illness. Betty Robb Cralle, his wife of 43 years, died in 1989, second wife Marguerite Houle Walton survives him, along with sons Jay, David & grandd
 FALKENSTEIN-David B., M.D. On April 29, 1998. Beloved husband of Jane Lowinger Falkenstein, M.D. Dear father of Amy Shein, Paul, Sara and Andrew. Adored son of Marta and the late Fritz Falkenstein. ''David, you are one in a million, and we will all miss you''. Services today, May 1, 12:30PM
 GAFFNEY-Joseph N., 66, of Lavallette, NJ formerly of Medham, NJ died on Wednesday at his home. Beloved husband of Mary Elizabeth (nee Duffy). Father of Nicholas, Brian, Paul, Kathleen Thometz and Janna Gaffney. Grandfather of five grandchildren. Brother of Virginia Cooney, Joan Price and Ba
 GARBER-Harry Douglas. Of Garden City, New York, & Winter Park, FL died at home Tuesday, April 28 after a prolonged battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Diane, father of Deborah MacKelcan, Juliet, John and Buckley, grandfather of Douglas, Matthew, Emily Joy, Alexander and Harry, brother of
 GRISTINA-Anthony George, M.D., on Thursday, April 30, 1998, in the company of his wife and sons in his home in Reston, Va. He is survived by his wife Susan, four sons, Anthony, Andrew, Thomas and Frank, brother Jerome, Friends, students, colleagues and patients.       
 HOEFFDING-Harald O. (Howdy) age 55, Clothing Designer. Mourned and loved by family and many friends whose lives were touched by his generosity of spirit and zest for life which he shared so freely and openly. Memorial service Monday, June 8, 4 P.M., Church of the Ascension, 5th Avenue and 1
 MEARES-Charles W. V. The Board of Directors, Administration and Medical Staff of Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital mourn the passing of Charles W.V. Meares on April 29, 1998. Mr. Meares was a dedicated member of our Board of Directors for 42 years, including 12 years as Chairman & most r
 NIEVES-Marcelino (Marc). We join his beloved sisters, Janelle and Charisse, his devoted partner, Mel Heuman and his many friends in NYC, Ft. Lauderdale and Fire Island Pines, in mourning the loss of our dear Marc. He will always be remembered, with great affection. Congregation B'nai Olam, 
 SAMPSON-Harvey E. Cornell University mourns the loss of Trustee Emeritus and Presidential Councillor, Harvey E. Sampson, a member of the Class of '51, served the University in numerous capacities; as trustee for nineteen years, life member and chair of the University Council, chair of the C
 Eldridge Cleaver, whose searing prison memoir ''Soul on Ice'' and leadership in the Black Panther Party made him a symbol of black rebellion in the turbulent 1960's, died yesterday in Pomona, Calif., at the age of 62. At the request of Mr. Cleaver's family, a spokesman for the Pomon
 Hal Laycoe, a National Hockey League defenseman, coach and general manager, died on Tuesday following surgery in Langley, British Columbia. He was 75. Laycoe was remembered chiefly for an encounter in 1955 with the Canadiens' star Maurice Richard that led to Richard's suspension fro
 DODGE-Bruce M. Passed away peacefully at his home in Rancho Mirage, California, on April 28, 1998. He was born in New York City, on December 18, 1920. He is survived by his adored wife, Joan and loving sons, Mark (Vicki) Dodge, Andrew (Cindy) Aronson and grandchildren, Noah and Jesse Aronso
 DUSKIN-Samuel A. On April 29 1998, at the age of 101. Born in Philadelphia, Oct. 17, 1896. Served in the Navy in World War I. Taught English in Havana afterwards. Enthusiastic world traveler. President of Estuary Council of Clubs while in his 80's. Active in his Connecticut Square Dance Clu
 HYMAN-Roger, M.D. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine deeply mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague Roger A. Hyman, M.D., Professor of Radiology at the NYU School of Medicine and Chairman of Radiology at North Shore University Hospital. Dr. Hyman was a diligent teacher and a n
 MAHER - Theodore Nicholas. ''Ted'' died of a long standing illness on his birthday, March 2, 1998. He is survived by 3 children: Candace, Michael and Nicole, as well as four grandchildren. Ted was raised in Greenwich, CT. He served in the South Pacific during W.W. II and later graduated fro
 SCHNEIDER-David. Age 77, died at home on Friday, May 1, 1998, of cancer. He was retired Chief Executive of El Al (North America) and prior to that Marketing Manager (USA) for British Airways. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Claire, three adoring daughters, Stephanie, Amy, and Tina, 
 STROH-Edward Jr., DMD. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Edward Stroh, Jr., DMD. A distinguished Director of the Department of Dentistry and Oral Surgery from 1966 to 1974, he upheld our finest traditions of clinical excellence and will be sorel
 TOY-Horace Robert. Of Bradenton, Fla. (formerly of NYC), on April 26, 1998, after a long illness. Retired President of Thos. D. Toy & Co., member of the Squadron ''A'' Assoc. Loving husband of the late Barbar Fish. Beloved father of Leontine (Bonnie) Audrain & sons Thomas, Peter and Christo
 Don Petersen, a playwright and screenwriter who wrote ''Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?'' -- in which Al Pacino made his electrifying Broadway debut in 1969 -- died on April 25 at the Senior Lodge in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 70 and lived in Stockbridge, Mass. The cause was lung and liv
 John White Hughes Bassett, a prominent figure in Canadian journalism, politics and sports for more than 40 years, died on Monday in Toronto. He was 82. Mr. Bassett was the chairman of Baton Broadcasting Inc., which controls CTV, Canada's largest private television network. At one ti
 Marvin Worth, a prolific writer and producer whose film credits ranged from black comedy (''Where's Poppa?'') to documentary biography (''Lenny'' and ''Malcolm X''), died on April 22 at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, his publicist said.
 BERLINGER - Frederick Furth. Died at his home in Palm Beach, FL on May 1, 1998. Beloved husband of Geraldine Q. Berlinger. Father of Robert G. Wilner and Virginia W. Newmyer. Also survived by six grandchildren and 11 great grandchildren. Funeral services private. In lieu of flowers, contrib
 BERNSTEIN-Bernard D. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, NY, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member, Bernard D. Bernstein. He will surely be missed.       
 BISSON-Carl Louis. Beloved life partner of John Lembo, departed this life on May 1, 1998, in New York City. A friend, confidant, and teacher to all who were blessed by his spirit, his ministry survives him. To have known this sweet man was to have experienced the true love and grace of God 
 CHISOLM-Lawrence Washington. Died April 29 of cancer, at his home in Buffalo. Born February 7, 1929, New York City. Son of Ruth Anderton and William Garnett Chisolm. Graduated St. Mark's Academy and Princeton, class of 1950. Served as Lieutenant, U.S. Navy, 1950-53. Ph.D. 1957 Yale, where h
 ENDERS-Charles M. 87 years old. Died April 25, 1998 after a long battle with Alzheimers disease. Beloved husband of Miriam Russo, widowed of Alline Driscoll, loving father of Tim, beloved brother of Sue Winston and Katherine Flack. Born 1910 in Hershey, PA, Chuck graduated with a B.S. in Ch
 FALKENSTEIN-Dr. David B. The Executive Council and Members of the New York Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy are deeply mournful for the loss of a beloved friend and colleague. One of the founders of the Society, he was consistenly active in the 24 years of the Society's existence. His
 FITZPATRICK-Edward J. Kramer, Levin, Naftalis & Frankel mourns the passing of our partner, colleague and friend. His humor, kindness, loyalty and individuality will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to all members of his bereaved family. In lieu of flowers, the family re
 GEBSTAEDT-Andre D., 78. Of Laurel Park, died Tuesday, April 28, 1998, after an extended illness. He was born in Germany and lived for many years in Port Washington, NY. He was Director of Advertising Services for ABC Television until his retirement in 1985. Survivors include his wife of 49 
 KAPLAN-Dr. Louis N. 90, Hollywood, FL, April 29, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Dora Haiblum Kaplan, loving father of Dr. Marcia Rudy and Dr. Mark H. Kaplan, dear brother of Herman Kaplan and the late Frank Caplan and Alex H. Kaplan. Loving grandfather of Debra Rudy Reichman, Jennifer Ru
 KAYE - Arthur. 9/23/60 - 4/29/98. Passed away after a fierce, long and courageous battle with AIDS. Beloved son of Connie and Bob Kaye. Brother of Mary Wikowicz and John Kaye and uncle of many nieces and nephews who were so dear to him. Cherished friend of Jim Spera, Sandy Edelstein, Dean T
 LEACH-David G. The Board of Directors and staff of the Garden Conservancy acknowledge with sadness the passing of Dr. David G. Leach. A world-renowned horticulturist and plant breeder, Dr. Leach was a founding member of the Garden Conservancy board and a valued leader and supporter. His nat
 MARSHALL-Arnold. On May 1, 1998, after a courageous fight. Loving husband of Marcia. Beloved father of Alexandra. Dear brother of Johanna. Services Mon. May 4, 1:30 PM, Frank Campbell, 81st Street and Madison Avenue. MARSHALL-Arnold. His friends and comrades of the 42d Inf. Div. NYA
 MEARES-Charles. Honorary Life Director and past Senior Vice President, National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Mr. Meares was a driving force in the Society's battle to end the devastating effects of multiple sclerosis. As Chairman of the National Commission on Multiple Sclerosis, he led the s
 SCHAFFELD-Henry G., M.D. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Henry G. Schaffeld, MD. A 1941 graduate of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and a doctor in the U.S. Army during World War II, he founded the first chest clinic
 SCHNEIDER-David. Age 77, died at home on Friday, May 1, 1998, of cancer. He was retired Chief Executive of El Al (North America) and prior to that Marketing Manager (USA) for British Airways. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Claire, three adoring daughters, Stephanie, Amy, and Tina, 
 SLOBADIN-Stephen. The Board of Directors of the Prescott Fund for Children and Youth, Inc. express our profound sorrow on the death of Mr. Stephen Slobadin, our president and colleague. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Elizabeth Anne and family. For over a half century he ded
 SZEKERES-Janos. Co-founder of the Savin Corporation died April 20th at his home in Stamford, CT. Born in Hungary, Mr. Szekeres attended the University of Vienna in Austria for his graduate studies and doctoral program in textile chemistry. During W.W. II he served as an aerial photographer 
 ULANSKY-Gene. Graduate of Columbia University, Ph.D. Stanford University, writer, editor, teacher, counselor, advisor, mentor. Active in Crossroads Africa. Died Thursday, April 23, 1998 in his Berkeley, CA home at age sixty. Survived by loving wife Susan Clark, daughter Kate Ulansky, sister
 WASSERMAN-Jack. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jack Wasserman: devoted husband, beloved father, champion of Jewish causes. A longtime supporter of UJA-Federation, he dedicated himself to those who needed his help. All who knew him were to
 PERLMAN-Daniel. We will always remember Danny with lasting affection for his soft manner, sharp wit, bright intellect and compassion for the disadvantaged. The warmth of his friendship will be with us forever. The Shabbas Group       
 Robert Campbell Kirkwood, a former chairman and chief executive of the F. W. Woolworth Company, died on Monday at the Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. Mr. Kirkwood, who lived in North Palm Beach, Fla., was 93. Mr. Kirkwood, who worked for the variety-sto
 Lou Cioffi, a broadcast journalist who covered the Korean War in the 1950's, the Vietnam War in the 1960's and the 1979-1981 hostage crisis in Iran, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He turned 72 last week. The cause was complications from liver cance
 Otto L. Bettmann, who fled to New York from Nazi Germany in 1935 with two trunks of prints and photographs and founded the renowned Bettmann Archive, a commercial treasure house of pictorial material that percolated into American culture through newspapers, magazines, books and television, 
 BROWN-Aaron. Of Aventura, FL. Passed away May 1, 1998. Survived by his loving wife Belle, children Donald, Stuart and Judith, grandchildren and great-grandchildren mourn his passing with fond memories and a smile.       
 CULVER-George Malcom. Of Charlotte, NC. Died May 1, 1998. Retired as Vice-President of Dime Savings Bank of N.Y. Survived by his wife, Edith P. Culver.       
 LELAND-Robert H. On April 30, 1998. Formerly of NYC. Past District Deputy Grand Master, First Manhattan District of the Masons. Retired officer and legal counsel for Chase Bag Co. (Union Camp Corp.), Greenwich, CT. Devoted husband of Janine (nee Krupski). Loving father of James G. and Dougl
 McNERNEY-James J. Died April 25, 1998, age 84. He was a retired Administrator of the Queens Public Library. Husband of Gladys (nee Pearce), father of James A., of Cortlandt, NY and Daniel of San Francisco, Ca. Grandfather of two. Interment at the St. George's Graveyard in Astoria at the fam
 MOKSNES-Kare. On April 30, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Georgette. Dear father of Helen. Visitation 11 AM to 12 noon, Tuesday. Religious service 12 noon, Tuesday, at the John Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave, New York, NY. Contributions in his memory can be made to the Norwegian Seam
 PALMA-Michael A. On May 1, 1998. Survived by his wife Kerstin, his sons Erik, James and Michael, family and friends. Family will receive Tuesday 2-5, 7-9 PM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St. Mass of Christian Burial Church of Our Savior, Park Ave at 38th St, Wednesday, 10 AM. 
 RUBINTON-Joel J., Esquire. Age 69. On April 29, 1998. Former attorney and teacher, Administrative Law Judge, culture vulture, avid traveler and community volunteer. He will be sorely missed by his loving wife of 46 years, Natalie; his children, Jeff, Eric, David and Ellen; their spouses Sha
 Defense Minister Gojko Susak of Croatia, who went from running a pizzeria in Ottawa to playing a vital role in the Croatian war of independence from Yugoslavia in the 1990's, died on Sunday night in Dubrava Hospital in Zagreb. He was 53. The cause of death was lung cancer, said Andr
 FOSHKO-Albert, 71. Of New York City, died April 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Jane Breault and Susan Wiener. Honoring his request, there will be no services.       
 GOLDBERGER-Edward. We sadly report the death of Edward Goldberger who was a loyal employee for over 50 years. Deepest sympathy to his family. West Mill Clothes, Inc. Lord West Formalwear       
 GREGOR-Harry P., Ph.D. Age 81. Professor Emeritus of Columbia University and Distinguished Research Professor at Polytechnic University. Beloved husband of Elinor for 57 years. Loving father of Laurel Porter, John, Charles (Marjorie) and Polly (Brian Guillorn). Adored grandfather of Stephen
 HEARNE-Paul G. On May 3, 1998. The Board of Directors, staff and friends of Just One Break, Inc. (JOB) express their sincere sympathy to the family of Paul G. Hearne in appreciation of his leadership as its executive director from 1980-1988. He will be missed as a friend and advocate for pe
 IHLO-Fred H., Jr., 78, Barryville, NY, May 2, 1998. Retired C.P.A.; WW II, 4th Armed Div. Assoc NYC. Survived by his wife, Frances Toaspern Ihlo; daughters, Barbara Sardone of Barryville, NY & Betty Morganstern of Annapolis, Maryland; sons William of New Milford, CT., and John of Brooklyn; 
 LOVELL-Frank. Passed away peacefully at his home in New York City on April 30, 1998. He was born in Ipava, Illinois, 1913. Beloved husband of the late Sarah. He is survived by his adored daughter, Joan Lovell of Detroit, Michigan and sister-in-law Molly Kerchner of Florida. A memorial meeti
 OECHLER-Charles. On April 29, 1998, after a short illness. He is survived by a brother, Willima F. Oechler of Cincinnati, a sister-inlaw Convere Oechler of New York City, two nephews, Hugh McA. Oechler of Cambridge, MA., and Henry J. Oechler, Jr. of Princeton, New Jersey, & a niece, Katheri
 PALMA-Michael. The family of Leonard Bernstein and the staff of Amberson cherish the memory of Mike Palma, our long-time friend and colleague. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife and children.       
 RESNICK-Murray. Eugene M. Grant & Company, deeply mourns the death of our beloved colleague & friend, Murray Resnick. A highly skilled Real Estate management professional, a loyal and devoted employee for over three decades, who was above all a gentleman of the old school. He was cherished 
 SCHWARTZ - Werner. Passed away on May 3, 1998 at age 83. He will be greatly missed and always remembered by his loving wife of 54 years Gladys (Gretel), son Greg, daughter and son-in-law Evelyn and Eric Erenrich, and grandchildren Amy and Jordan. Graveside servces 2pm, Tuesday, at Beth Mose
 SHERMAN-Robert S., MD. Age 88. Of Roxbury, CT. on May 3, 1998 in New Milford, CT. A former chairman & attending radiologist at Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in NY. Also a consultant in diagnostic radiology for IBM medical department. Survived by his wife, Dr. Ruth Snyder. Also survived by a
 UNDERBERG-Alan J. Of Rochester, NY on May 3, 1998 at age 68. Lawyer and civic leader admired and loved by colleagues, friends and family in Rochester and throughout the country. Survived by his wife, Joyce Wisbaum Underberg of Rochester; his children, Mark A. Underberg (Diane Englander) of 
 WEINER-Myron (Mickey). On May 1, 72, a couragous fight against lung cancer. Loving brother of Arthur, uncle of Seth. He was loved and will be missed by family and friends.       
 Patrick Hayes, one of the last of the American impresarios and virtually the only presenter of musicians, singers and dancers in Washington before the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts opened in 1971, died on Sunday at George Washington University Medical Center. He was 89. Fro
 Samuel Cummings, the world's biggest small-arms dealer, died on April 29 in Monaco after a series of strokes. He was 71 and had long reigned as the undisputed philosopher-king of the arms trade. In a world marked by secrecy, deception, swindles and scams, Mr. Cummings stood out. He 
 Gene Raymond, whose dashing blond looks led to a long career in theater, film and television, died on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia, said his publicist, Esme Chandlee. He started on Broadway in 1920 at the age of 12 
 BASH-Hazzan Saul. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of a respected colleague of over four decades. Quietly and gently he served the spiritual needs of his congregants with great dignity, warmth, and care. We extend our sympathy to his children, and his loved ones. May his
 BERNSTEIN-Michael A. Age 41. Resident of New York City and Saltaire, Fire Island. Suddenly in an automobile accident in Mississippi on Monday, May 4. Survived by his loving parents, George A. and Diane M. Bernstein, his beloved wife, Catherine Wolcott, his brothers Adam and Anthony and sist
 GOLDSTEIN-Abraham. On May 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Mildred. Loving father of Fredricka, Karen, Louis, David. Dear brother of Henriette Goldberg. Adoring grandfather of Samuel, Stephen, Brian, Ann, Susan, Anthony, Daniella, Amanda and Joseph. Great grandfather of Alexandra. Chairman and l
 HEARNE-Paul G. On May 3, 1998. President of the Dole Foundation. Husband of Pamela S. Loving son of Patricia Hearne. Devoted brother of Jennifer Hughes and fond brother-in-law to Mark. Loving uncle of Aidan. Friends may call Wednesday and Thursday, 2-5 and 7-10PM at the Thomas F. Dalton Fun
 LIPPMANN-Heinz I., MD, FACP, FACA, FRHS. On May 4, 1998. Of Chappaqua, NY. Formerly of Teaneck, NJ. Distinguished Emeritus Professor of Rehabilitation at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Yeshiva University, NY. Husband of Alisa (Moscato) Lippmann. Father of Coco Gordon, Robert F. and La
 PETER-John. Age 81, beloved father of Laurie Peter, Wendy Peter Abt, Sarah Peter and Molly Peter, and grandfather of Thomas, Emily, Rachel, Katy, Jacob, Lightning, Isaac, Noah and Lilly. Died on May 1 in transit to New York City, his home. Memorial services at the Art Directors Club, 250 Pa
 POSTER-Dr. Maurice G. A remarkable clinical specialist in contact lens therapy for more than 4 decades, he built a program at the SUNY College of Optometry and was renowned nationally & internationally, as a teacher and scholar, in an emerging field of visual function. He was an original st
 RESNICK-Murray. Eugene M. Grant & Company deeply mourns the death of our beloved colleague & friend, Murray Resnick. A highly skilled Real Estate management professional, a loyal and devoted employee for over three decades, Murray was above all a gentleman of the old school. He was cherishe
 SHREWSBURY-Mats G.E. Nilsson. Of 22 Prospect St., Shrewsbury, MA. Died Wednesday afternoon at the Whittier Rehabilitation Hospital in Westborough, MA. He leaves his wife of 52 years, Elsa E. Nilsson b. Falkengren; his son Dr. Claes Nilsson of Portland, Maine; his daughter Elsa N. Hill of So
 TARAIL-Mark, D.S.W. On May 5, 1998. Devoted husband of Helen. Beloved father of Judith and Michael (Mary). Grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of five. Loving brother of Theodore (Pearl) & the late Robert. Director Emeritus of Maimonides Community Mental Health Center. Services are t
 BUCKNAM-David C. Come celebrate David's life through his music on Sunday, May 10th, at 7 P.M., in the Anspacher at The Public Theatre.       
 Former Prime Minister Chatichai Choonhavan of Thailand, who personified the nation's old-school style of wheeler-dealer politics until he was ousted in a coup, died yesterday in a London hospital. He was 76. He was being treated for liver cancer, his family said. A brilliant
 J. Gordon Lippincott, who helped design the Campbell soup label, the Tucker automobile and the interior of the Nautilus nuclear submarine before pioneering the new field of corporate identity, died on April 29 at his home in North Haven. Conn. He was 89. He died of a heart-related i
 CARTER-David W. age 71. A former Vice President of TIAACREF, passed away May 5 in Riverside, CT. He is survived by his wife Patricia, children; David, Michael, Christopher and Alison and 11 grandchildren. Memorial service will be held Saturday May 16 at 11AM, at Saint Pauls Church, Riversid
 GOLDSTEIN - Abraham. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Society of Jewish Science mourn the passing of their beloved leader and chairman, Abraham Goldstein. He will be greatly missed but his qualities of kindness, generosity and compassion will forever rest in our hearts. Bill Perl
 HARLAN-George Cuvier. Cherished husband of Mary C. Pratt (Toronto) died in his sleep on April 28, 1998, age 70 years. Memorial donations, if desired, to the Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007       
 KOENEN-Austin. On May 2, 1998. Survived by his wife, Kathleen and three children - Karestan, Erin and Austin Junior. The viewing will be held on Friday, May 8th from 3:00 P.M. to 9 P.M. at the M. John Scanlan Funeral Home, 781 Newark Pompton Turnpike, Pompton Plains, New Jersey. Services wi
 LAWRENCE-Donald S. Jr., of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, died unexpectedly May 4th at home. He was 55. He is survived by his fiance Myriam Kessler and her son Bryan; his son Donald S. Lawrence III of Littleton, MA.; his grandsons Donald IV and Joseph Lawrence of Littleton; his daughter Jessic
 LIPPMANN-Heinz, M.D. The President and the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center mourn the passing of Dr. Heinz Lippmann, a distinguished professor and respected member of the Rehabilitation Medicine staff for more than forty years. A true renaissance man, Dr. Lippmann was a compas
 MURRAY-J. Michael, 43. A lifetime resident of Princeton, died at his home after a long battle with von Hippel-Lindau disease. Mr. Murray was a private investor and, a director of The Murray Foundation, devoted many years of his life to philanthropic causes related to his illness: Recording 
 PROTA-Anthony. On May 5, 1998. Respected Senior V.P. of Wolf Gordon, Inc. Tony was one of four founders of our firm, which became and remained one of the largest independent suppliers of commercial wall covering in the United States. Tony will be sorely missed by all of us at Wolf Gordon an
 RESNICK-Murray. Eugene M. Grant & Company deeply mourns the death of our beloved colleague & friend, Murray Resnick. A highly skilled Real Estate management professional, a loyal and devoted employee for over three decades, Murray was above all a gentleman of the old school. He was cherishe
 SAAD-Sam, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni record with sorrow the untimely death of Dr. Sam Saad, School of Medicine graduate of the Class of 1982. An outstanding young physician, he will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.
 SEALES-Kenneth W. Sr. In his 70th year. On May 4, 1998. Formerly of Long Beach, Long Island and North Babylon. At his home in Dungarvin, Ireland. Former President of Fischbach & Moore, Inc. and owner of Seal's Cove Restaurant. Mr. Seales leaves to cherish his memory many family and friends.
 TARAIL-Mark, D.S.W. We are deeply saddened at the passing of Mark Tarail, one of the founders of the Department of Psychiatry and the Community Mental Health Center at Maimonides. A dynamic leader and scholar, Mark always sought to speak for those who did not have a voice. He envisioned a w
 TERNER-Emanuel M., 89. On May 5th, 1998. Cherished and beloved husband of Mathilda (nee Weisenfeld). Loving father of Nancy Behrman, Elaine Cooper and Carol Lederman, father-in-law to Stanley and Mark. Devoted grandfather of Peter (Josephine) Grayson, Alan (Kim) Mnuchin, Steven Mnuchin, Amy
 WHARTON-Lacy Donnell, Jr. (Don). On May 6, 1998 in his 93rd year. Survived by two daughters Margaret W. Segalas and Julia W. Douglas; five grandchildren and three great-granddaughters. Services private.       
 Alan Simpson, the president of Vassar College in the turbulent 1960's and 70's whose easygoing charm, wit and scholarship helped him weather not only a time of student protest but also the admission of men to the all-women school, died on Tuesday at Lake Forest Hospital in Lake Forest, Ill.
 Jack Frederick Wilder, a retired educator and administrator in psychiatry who was an innovator in the move toward community-based services for the mentally ill in the 1960's and 70's, died on April 28 at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 72. The cause was heart disease, his family
 CHASE-Reverend William J. The members, staff and Board of Fountain House express deep sorrow at the loss of our Director and friend, who, since 1954, served on our Board. Bill was a guiding and considerate force through our early uncertain days, and in immeasurable ways helped Fountain Hous
 COHN-Jerome Pershing (Conti). Son of the late I. Dick and Mary Cohn. Survived by his loving sister Lynne Kasarsky and brother-inlaw and friend Irving, his niece Dana, nephew Steven, and great niece Rebecca. Service Sunday, 10AM, at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapel,'' 55 North Station Plaza (
 COOPERSMITH - Ralph. The Board of Directors of the Henry Kaufmann Camp Grounds mourns the passing of Ralph Coopersmith, the father of Jeffrey Coopersmith, our Executive Director. We offer our heartfelt condolence to his wife and his family.       
 KOENEN-Austin. On May 2, 1998. Survived by his wife, Kathleen and three children - Karestan, Erin and Austin Junior. The viewing will be held on Friday, May 8th from 3:00 P.M. to 9 P.M. at the M. John Scanlan Funeral Home, 781 Newark Pompton Turnpike, Pompton Plains, New Jersey. Services wi
 LOWSTUTER-Donald E. Died April 22, 1998 in New York City. His friends will miss that special style, wit and knowledge that made him unique. A memorial service and interment will be held at the Columbarium of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, NYC on Thursday, May 28 at 5 P.M.      
 MICHELMAN-Starr S., 93. Formerly of New Rochelle, NY and Long Boat Key, FL. In Lenox, MA, on May 7. Beloved mother of James H. Michelman and his wife Enid of New Marlboro, MA., and Frank I. Michelman and his wife Ellen of Lexington, MA. Motherin-law of Peggy Michelman of Armonk, NY. Grandmo
 STOLLMAN-Phillip. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn with great sorrow the passing of a founding father and guiding light of our University, Phillip Stollman. A visionary leader, he was a founding patron of Bar-Ilan in 1955 and, in the more than four decades since,
 TERNER-Emanuel M., 89. On May 5th, 1998. Cherished and beloved husband of Mathilda (nee Weisenfeld). Loving father of Nancy Behrman, Elaine Cooper and Carol Lederman, father-in-law to Stanley and Mark. Devoted grandfather of Peter (Josephine) Grayson, Alan (Kim) Mnuchin, Steven Mnuchin, Amy
 VALYI-Emery. Of Katonah and Riverdale, on May 5, at age 86, husband of Elisabeth, father of Kathy and grandfather of Aran, Kieran and Clara. An inventor with over 200 U.S. and foreign patents who made original technical contributions to foundry technology, mass and heat transfer systems, pa
 WEIL-Herbert. Died quietly and with dignity Wednesday, May 6, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Jenny and late twin brother Sally. Companion of Rose Haas and the late Lieselotte Mayer. He left his indelible footprints on the sands of time. He will be best remembered as a very kind and most 
 Paul Seymour, a guard for the old Syracuse Nationals known for his feisty style of play, the captain of their 1955 National Basketball Association championship team and a former coach, died on Wednesday at his winter home in Jensen Beach, Fla. He was 70. He had been suffering from h
 Allan MacLeod Cormack, whose boyhood fascination with the vast canopy of stars above his South African home started him on a circuitous journey that led him to the accidental discovery of the underpinning of CAT scan X-ray technology and a share of the 1979 Nobel Prize for medicine, died on
 Charles (Bebe) Rebozo, a self-made Florida millionaire who met Richard M. Nixon in 1950 and became his lifelong friend, died last night in Miami. He was 85 years old, born just three months before Mr. Nixon, the man who became the 37th President of the United States. The Rebozo-Nixo
 Charles W. V. Meares, a former chairman and chief executive of the New York Life Insurance Company, died on April 29 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 91. Mr. Meares, who was known as Vic, emigrated with his family from England in 1923, when he was 16. He went to work for New
 Eddie Rabbitt, a singer and songwriter who defined ''crossover'' in country and pop music of the 1970's and 80's and had 26 No. 1 country singles, died on Thursday at Baptist Hospital in Nashville. He was 56. The cause was lung cancer, said a spokesman for the Brokaw Company, his ma
 BEATTY-Ryan James, 18, died peacefully on the 7th of May surrounded by his family. He brought love, laughter and joy to all. Son of Marion Usdan of Summit, N.J. and Martin Beatty of Washington, N.J. A Memorial service will be held on Saturday, May 9th, 1998 at 12:00pm at the Reeves-Reed Arb
 BOBKER-Jack. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Jack Bobker. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 BRENDSEL-Peter David. Age 27. On Wednesday, May 6, at his residence in McLean, VA. Beloved son of Leland C. & Diane Brendsel. Brother of Jon and Michael Brendsel. Grandson of Lars Brendsel & William and LaVerne Christensen. Services held at Vienna Presbyterian Church, 124 Park Street N.E., 
 MINTZ-Jack. On May 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Helen. Cherished father of Robyn, Brad and Cheryl. Loving grandfather of Sam Maxwell. Devoted to his sons in law George and Harris and daughter in law Lynn. Devoted brother to his sister Gerry Wodin. Services on Sunday, May 10, Gutterman's Fune
 TERNER - Emanuel M. The Trustees and Administration of the Manhattan School of Music note with sadness the death of Emanuel M. Terner, father of our esteemed trustee, Nancy T. Behrman. We extend our deepest sympathies to Nancy and all the members of the Terner family. David A. Rahm, Chairma
 Roy Eckardt, a leading scholar of Christian-Jewish relations and chairman emeritus of religion studies at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., died on Tuesday at his home in Coopersburg, Pa. He was 79. He had a brain tumor, the university said. Dr. Eckardt, a clergyman in th
 Former Senator Jennings Randolph of West Virginia, a Democrat who was present at the creation of the New Deal and wrote the constitutional amendment that gave 18-year-olds the right to vote, died today at a nursing home in St. Louis. He was 96. Mr. Randolph had been living at the St
 Bebe Rebozo, a self-made Florida millionaire who met Richard M. Nixon in 1950 and became his longtime friend, died on Friday night at Baptist Hospital in Miami. He was 85 years old, born two months before  Nixon, the man who became the 37th President of the United States. The Rebozo
 Myres Smith McDougal, an authority on international law and co-founder of the New Haven school of jurisprudence, died on Thursday at the Evergreen Woods Health Center in North Branford, Conn. A longtime resident of New Haven, he was 91. He died after a long illness, according to the
 Ordway Hilton, a budding mathematician who emerged as one of the nation's foremost authorities on detecting forged documents, died on April 15 at a hospital in Spartanburg, S.C. He was 84 and had played a role in exposing some of the century's most celebrated forgeries, and, in an embarrass
 BOBKER-Jack Richard. A very special person to all who knew him. On May 8, 1998 at the age of 69. Cherished and adored husband of Arlene, father of Ken, Jay, and Larry. Father-in-law of Wendy and grandfather of Zachary and Chloe. Brother of Lee and Kate and brother-in-law of Ira. Dearest fri
 BRENDSEL-Peter David. Age 27. On Wednesday, May 6, at his residence in McLean, VA. Beloved son of Leland C. & Diane Brendsel. Brother of Jon and Michael Brendsel. Grandson of Lars Brendsel & William and LaVerne Christensen. Services held at Vienna Presbyterian Church, 124 Park Street N.E., 
 COHEN-Harry B., Jr. Suddenly, May 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Shirley. Loving father of Jill and Robert (Marie-Pierre). Services Monday, 10 AM, at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale. Contributions to W.R.T. Men's Club. COHEN-Harry. The Men's Club of Westcheste
 COHEN-Paul, CPA. August 17, 1914-May 3, 1998. Delray Beach, FL. Formerly of Lido Beach, L.I., NY. Former managing partner of Harry Abramowitz & Co., certified public accountants. New York University graduate, class of 1935. Adored husband of Regina (Schoenberg). Loving father of Edward, Ste
 DRECHSEL-William E., 94. Died on March 2, 1998 in Topeka, KS. Survived by his wife Noelle Todd Drechsel of Topeka, daughter Mary Louise Gramkow and son J. Andrew Drechsel.       
 EMMER-Theodore (Teddy). Of Miami Beach, on Friday, May 8, 1998 in his 97th year. Beloved husband of the late Esther. Loving father of Herbert and cherished father-in-law of Carolee. Adored grandfather of Susan and Matthew, brother of Claire, Sylvia, Leon and the late Fay. Private family ser
 KASLON-Irving. On May 9, 1998. Beloved husband, father, brother, grandfather, uncle and friend. He was an extraordinary man who will be remembered and missed by all who knew him. He is survived by his loving wife Marion, daughters and sons-in-law Karen and Aron Schlam, and Terri and Harvey 
 KAWALEK-Roman, M.D. Graduated University of Vienna in Medicine. Survived Krystal Nacht in Vienna. Served residency at University Hospital in Little Rock, AR. Enlisted US Army 1943-attained rank of captain. Awarded Bronze Star, Presidential Unit Citation, Commendation ribbon w/ Pendant, Comb
 LIPPINCOTT-Gordon. I note with sorrow Gordon Lippincott's passing. His vision, creativity and sense of humanity will continue to inspire and guide those who were privileged to know this truly remarkable man. Clive Chajet       
 LIPPMANN-Heinz. The Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourns the loss of Dr. Heinz Lippmann, who was a member of our department for 43 years. He will be missed by his many friends and colleagues. Avital Fa
 MASON-Calman, 85, on May 6. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Father of Ira and Gail, Marilyn and Bob. Grandfather of Bonnie, Michael, Cori, Seth, Jonathan and the late Marc. Great grandfather of Joshua and Zachary. His warmth and love and kindness personified the fullest expression of the goodn
 MINTZ-Jack. On May 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Helen. Cherished father of Robyn, Brad and Cheryl. Loving grandfather of Sam Maxwell. Devoted to his sons in law George and Harris and daughter in law Lynn. Devoted brother to his sister Gerry Wodin. Services on Sunday, May 10, Gutterman's Fune
 REED-Lionel C., 83. Resident of New City for 37 years, April 30, 1998. Having graduated as a chemical engineer from Worcester Polytechnic Institute with honors in 1936 he worked for the FDA, and then entered private industry, where he developed radio-labeled biochemicals used by major resea
 ROGERS-Herman ''Pete''. Age 88. Died on May 3rd, 1998. Beloved husband of Reita (nee Berlat). Loving father of daughter Beth & son Toby. Cherished grandfather of John Andrew Rogers Katz. Loving father-in-law to Jeffrey S. Katz and Francine Nayman. Your strength and courage will be an inspir
 STOLLMAN-Phillip. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend who, with his late brother Max and late sister-in-law Frieda, was a YU Guardian and a Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine. We extend our heartfelt condolences to son Dr. Gerald (and Leila)
 VALYI-Emery. Of Katonah and Riverdale, on May 5, at age 86, husband of Elisabeth, father of Kathy and grandfather of Aran, Kieran and Clara. An inventor with over 200 U.S. and foreign patents who made original technical contributions to foundry technology, mass and heat transfer systems, pa
 WESCHLER-Milton E. On May 3, 1998. Family and friends join in mourning the sudden passing of Milton E. Weschler, age ninetyone, of Coconut Creek, Florida, and formerly of Great Neck, Long Island. He was healthy and vibrant until the end. He was preceded in death by his loving wife, Estelle,
 LAVENGOOD-Russell W., Jr. M.D. Nov. 21, 1924-May 11, 1988. Beloved husband, father and brother. Surgeon, healer, and devoted friend to many. ''He left large footprints in the sands of time.'' His loving family       
 Paul G. Hearne, a high-spirited Washington lawyer who for more than two decades was one of the nation's most effective champions for people with disabilities, died on May 3 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 48 and had been a founder or officer of virtually every national organization dev
 John Peter, the New York art director whose poster of a blue rooster with fluttering Allied flags atop the message ''Le Jour Se Leve'' cheered war-weary Parisians after the Liberation in 1944, died on May 1 in Philadelphia on a business trip. He was 81 and had homes in Norwalk, Conn., and M
 BADE-John von Benten, 88, died peacefully on May 9, 1998. He loved life and was beloved by his family and friends. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Dorothea, his daughters Lorna Goodman and Lisa Cermak, their husbands, Edwin Goodman and Frank Cermak, his beloved grandchildren Sara an
 BRENDSEL-Peter David. Age 27. On Wednesday, May 6, at his residence in McLean, VA. Beloved son of Leland C. & Diane Brendsel. Brother of Jon and Michael Brendsel. Grandson of Lars Brendsel & William and LaVerne Christensen. Services held at Vienna Presbyterian Church, 124 Park Street N.E., 
 BRENNAN - Maurice Anthony. Passed away peacefully on May 9, 1998, at 91. Beloved husband of the late Emily Humphrey Brennan. Cherished father to Laraine. Father-in-law to Steven and beloved grandfather to Catherine, Tanya and Erin. Formerly of Little Neck, NY, he was born in Limerick, Irela
 COHEN-Harry B. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted, longtime member and Trustee of our Men's Club and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Judith Schindler, Assoc. Rabbi       
 GLAZEROFF-Nathan. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 HAMMETT-Philip M. Esq. On May 5, 1998, of Philadelphia, age 77; beloved husband of Mary Jane Hammett, father of Theodore M. and Peggy Hammett, Janet Hammett Pratt and Nan Hammett, stepfather of John, Robert, Thomas and Christopher Palmer, Susan Palmer Austin, Catherine Roy, Virginia Beaulac
 HOCKSTADER-Leonard A. II, age 66, died suddenly on May 8 of acute asthma. He is survived by his wife, Diane Deschamps Hockstader, a son, Lee Hockstader, two daughters, Kalen Hockstader Holliday and Avery Diane Hockstader, a granddaughter, Pierson Holliday and a brother Alan Hockstader. A me
 Ronald L. Ridenhour, the Vietnam veteran who in 1969 first disclosed the My Lai massacre of Vietnamese civilians by United States Army troops, died yesterday in Metairie, La. He was 52. The cause apparently was a heart attack while playing handball, said his companion, Mary Howell. 
 Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, a three-time candidate for President of the Dominican Republic who rose from a childhood of extreme poverty to become one of the most prominent black political figures in Latin America, died on Sunday night at his home outside Santo Domingo. He was 61. Mr.
 Mordechai Strigler, the editor of the Yiddish-language Forward and one of the most prolific Yiddish writers of the postwar period, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 76. The cause was a brain injury from a fall, said Dr. Barnett Zumoff, presi
 BRENNAN - Maurice Anthony. Passed away peacefully on May 9, 1998, at 91. Beloved husband of the late Emily Humphrey Brennan. Cherished father to Laraine. Father-in-law to Steven and beloved grandfather to Catherine, Tanya and Erin. Formerly of Little Neck, NY, he was born in Limerick, Irela
 COHEN-Harry B., Jr. Westchester Jewish Community Services mourns the loss of its devoted thirty year Board member, Harry B. Cohen, Jr. We will miss him. Philip Halper, President Ronald Gaudia, Exec Dir/CEO       
 COHEN-Milton, 91. Of Lawrence, N.Y. On May 7, 1998, of heart failure. He was former Associate Director of Brookdale Hospital.       
 CRAWFORD-John Hamilton, Jr. Esquire Of Locust Valley, L.I. on May 10, 1998. Husband of Zella K. Father of Robin C. Perito (Paul), Terrell K., Philip K. (Lisa), J. Hamilton III (Patricia) and Paige T. Brother of James L. Grandfather of seven. Memorial Service St. John's of Lattingtown, Wedne
 GARBER-Harry D. The Community Preservation Corporation mourns the passing of its long time Director and past Chairman Harry D. Garber. He was a visionary in understanding how private industry might address social problems, and helped lead our company to expand our low and moderate income ho
 HEMPHILL-Herbert Waide., Jr. We mourn the passing of a very special person, Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr., beloved son of the late Emma Bryan Bradley Hemphill and the late Herbert Waide Hemphill, Sr. Born in Atlantic City, NJ, January 21, 1929, died in New York City, NY, May 8, 1998. Curator 
 HOCKSTADER-Leonard A. II. The Board of Trustees of the Fred L. Lavanburg Foundation is deeply saddened by the death of our colleague and descendant of our Founder. Leonard A. Hockstader II brought compassion to the Foundation's focus on Public Housing and served as a Trustee for more than 3
 HOLAHAN-William, Jr. Formerly of Norwood, N.J. and Boca Raton FL., 84. Died quietly, with dignity on May 10, 1998. Deeply loved; greatly missed; in our hearts forever. Services on June 2, at Grace Church, Amherst, Mass. Donations in his memory may be made to: Pathfinder Village, RR 1, Box 3
 LYMAN-Ralph. Passed away peacefully on May 11, 1998 at age 79. Beloved husband of Clara. Cherished father of Paula and Mark. Devoted grandfather of Arianne, Forest, Aaron and Ariel. He was an accomplished printer, dedicated teacher, talented writer and loving individual. Funeral service, Ri
 NAJARIAN-Karnig R., of Old Tappan, NJ, on Friday, May 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Barbara Najarian (nee SanGiovanni). Devoted father of John and Laura Najarian. Relatives of Najarian and Paragian families. Memorial gifts to The Museum of Modern Art, 11 W. 53rd Street, New York, NY 10019 in 
 OLIVIERI-Noel L., 49. Of Bloomfield, Conn. Husband of Judy (Brown) Olivieri. Died on Friday, May 8, at McLean Home, Simsbury after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Founder and President of Olivieri Communication, Inc. of Windsor Ct, a marketing services firm which specialized in servi
 PINCUS-Jules. We are saddened by the death of the dynamic Chairman of our San Diego Chapter. Our sincerest condolences to Teddie and his family. America-Israel Cultural Foundation Vera Stern, President Kathleen Ron, Executive Director       
 SELDEN-Dave. Dave Selden, who lead the American Federation of Teachers from 1968 through 1974, a period of rapid membership growth & collective bargaining successes for teachers, died late on Friday at Bronson Methodist Hospital in Kalamazoo, MI. of heart failure. His health had steadily de
 STRIGLER-Mordechai. A powerful voice has been stilled. The readers, publishers, editors, writers and staff of The Forward Newspapers mourn the death of Mordechai Strigler, editor of our Yiddish edition. Educated in one of the great yeshivas of pre-war Poland, he survived torment and slaught
 WESTAWAY-Alan, 75. Died on Monday, May 11, at his home in Riverdale. He is survived by his wife Evelyn. Dear brother of Bryan and Hugh, who reside in England. Cherished father to daughter Patricia and son Paul and daughter-in-law Priscilla. Beloved grandfather to Kristen. Memorial service w
 Ray Noble, a catcher on the New York Giants team that staged a memorable comeback to overtake the Brooklyn Dodgers for the 1951 National League pennant, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He lived in Brooklyn and was 79. The cause was complications of diabetes,
 Thomas R. Dashiell, who became a major figure in America's effort to develop offensive biological weapons but later worked to destroy them, died on May 4 in Frederick, Md., where he lived. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, his family said. With degrees in biology and chemic
 David Selden, whose combative leadership of the American Federation of Teachers earned him a 60-day jail term alongside striking teachers in Newark in 1968, died on Friday at Bronson Methodist Hospital in Kalamazoo, Mich. He was 83, and lived in Kalamazoo. The cause of death was hea
 Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr., a collector and curator whose passion for American folk art helped redefine the field, died on Friday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said his nephew, J. Marshall Hemphill, of Lancaste
 Hermann Lenz, who sprang from decades of obscurity to become one of modern Germany's most significant and prolific authors, died today in Munich, his publisher, Suhrkamp, said. He was 85 and lived in Munich. Between 1936 and 1997, Mr. Lenz published more than 30 works, domin
 BRENNAN - Maurice Anthony. Passed away peacefully on May 9, 1998, at 91. Beloved husband of the late Emily Humphrey Brennan. Cherished father to Laraine. Father-in-law to Steven and beloved grandfather to Catherine, Tanya and Erin. Formerly of Little Neck, NY, he was born in Limerick, Irela
 CHASIS-Herbert, M.D. Age 92. Professor of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine. Died peacefully on May 11, 1998. Survived by wife Barbara Parker, daughers Joel Anne and Sarah, grandsons Dan and Garrett Roll, Jonathan Hiles, and granddaughter Rachel Hiles. Services private. Memor
 COLHOUN-Richard Newbold, Jr., a resident of Millbrook, New York, died from injuries resulting from a race car accident at Lime Rock, Connecticut on Saturday, May 9. He was 50. Mr. Colhoun was the New York - New England sales manager for and a key factor in the success of Landmark Vine yards
 GARDEN-Simon L. On May 11, 1998 in his 95th year. Husband of the late Florence. Cherished father of Amoree Beckman Blasenheim and Iris & Jerry Schwartzbaum. Proud grandfather of Joel & Shari, Karen, and Eric Beckman; Marilyn & Bill Graber; David & Rena Schwartzbaum. Loving great-grandfather
 KWARTNER-Jack. The Board of Directors and Officers of the American Red Magen David for Israel (ARMDI) Southeast Region mourn the passing of Jack Kwartner, beloved humanitarian, philanthropist and life-long friend of Magen David Adom and the people of Israel. His generous contributions to hi
 McNULTY-Alfred P., beloved husband of Dorothy (nee John), dear father of Matthew J. McNulty (wife Margo) of University Heights, Peter D. McNulty of Long Beach, CA. and William R. McNulty of London, England; dear grandfather of Alex; dear brother of Eileen Dana (Mrs. Howard) of N.Y., Kathlee
 MESAR-Joe. We are greatly saddened by the untimely passing of Joe Mesar, Financial Secretary of the National Organization of Legal Services Workers. Joe was not only a client to us, but was a good friend over these past twenty years. We are going to miss him terribly. However, in the immort
 MYERS-Albert (Albie). Age 79. On May 11, 1998. Beloved husband of Norma (Nathel). Devoted father of Ronald and Lance. Father-inlaw to Jill (Yagoda) and cherished grandfather of Danielle and Hillary. He was a giving and loving man who will be greatly missed. We will remember him always. Fune
 PUGLIESE-Rev. Joseph B. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the former administrator of St. Benedict the Moor Church, Jamaica. Reposing in Walsh/LaBella Funeral Home, 8713 87th St., Woodhaven, Thursday, May 14, from 1-4 and 7-10 pm. Funeral Mass in St. Thomas Apostle Church, 87-1
 SARCH-David Joseph Anthony, October 27, 1940 - May 9, 1998: On May 9 suddenly, at home, of a heart attack. Loved immensely by Ros, Louise and Terri, his family and all his many friends throughout the world. A highly respected lawyer and advisor-a great loss to his profession. Mr. Sarch will
 SMITHERS-Charles F., 82, died May 8, 1998 in Fort Pierce, FL. He was a native of New York City and and a resident of Lynbrook and Copake Falls, NY, and spent his winters in South Hutchinson Island. Mr. Smithers attended New York University and served in the Merchant Marines during WWII. He 
 Clarence Cecil Pell, an aviation insurance executive, who was probably better known as the preserver of medieval court tennis in America, died on Tuesday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. R.I. A former resident of Old Westbury, N.Y., he was 86 and had made Narragansett, R.I., his perm
 Col. Donald Conroy, a storied Marine fighter pilot whose domestic code dictated that he never strike his daughters and not begin beating his sons until after they had learned to walk, died on Saturday at a hospital in Beaufort, S.C. He was 77 and best known as the model for the tyrannical t
 Emery I. Valyi, a prolific inventor whose innovations included a way for Pepsi drinkers to more easily pour a 2-liter plastic soft-drink bottle, died May 5 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Dr. Valyi died of complications from cancer, according to his daughter, K
 Kalman Seigel, who spent 13 of his 41 years at The New York Times as editor of the Letters to the Editor department of the paper, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Brooklyn. Family members said the cause of death was pancreatic
 CHASIS-Herbert, M.D. Age 92. Professor of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine. Died peacefully on May 11, 1998. Survived by wife Barbara Parker, daughters Joel Anne and Sarah, grandchildren Dan and Garrett Roll and Rachel and Jonathan Hiles, and sons-in-law Joe Roll and Clay Hi
 GOULD-F.J. (Jerry), Ph.D., Chairman Professor Emeritus, University of Chicago on May 12. Cofounder of Investment Research Company, Dr. Gould is responsible for coordination of all aspects of IRC activity, with particular emphasis on performance, product research, new strategy development, a
 MESAR-Joseph R. He lived his life fully and passionately. My beloved. Devoted son to the late Priscilla Alden Mesar, caring cousin to Elaine. Leader in the fight for justice, true friend. Regina C. Little, Esq. MESAR-Joseph. The Officers, Members and Staff of the National Organizati
 MYERS-Albert (Albie). Age 79. On May 11, 1998. Beloved husband of Norma (Nathel). Devoted father of Ronald and Lance. Father-inlaw to Jill (Yagoda) and cherished grandfather of Danielle and Hillary. He was a giving and loving man who will be greatly missed. We will remember him always. Fune
 O'SULLIVAN-Benjamin. Left this world on May 2, 1998. During his life, he found interests in many social issues, but one moved him to become actively involved-his interest in the poverty, homelessness and grave injustices to the American Indian. Mr. O'Sullivan devoted many years to helping A
 SPENCE-Lewis H. Died peacefully on May 12, 1998 at his home in Cranbury, New Jersey. Husband of Eleanor K. Spence and father of Padraic, Harry, Matthew, & Olivia and grandfather of nine. He was founder of Lewis Spence & Co., co-founder of Cranbury Housing Associates and author. SPEN
 VERSTANDIG-William. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Henri Verstandig on the loss of his brother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 MANY executives bounce between private industry and public service in the course of their careers. But Frank G. Zarb seems to oscillate, like a radio wave, between Wall Street and Washington. He left New York the first time for the Department of Labor under President Richard M. Nixo
 FITZGERALD-C. Edwin. May 14, 1998. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted brother of Ann Garlick, Elizabeth Fitzgerald and Agnes Davis. Loving uncle of 11 nieces and nephews and 16 grand-nieces and nephews. Executive secretary of Partridge-Invitation Scholarship Foundation Inc. Friends may call a
 PATTERSON-A. Willing. Age 87 of Gladwyne, PA., on May 13, 1998. Husband of Leila D. Patterson, father of Leila P. Peck, Eleanora Patterson and David D. Patterson. Also survived by 4 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held 3PM Saturday, May 16, in the Chu
 PHILLIPS-Lewis A. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the staff of the Jeanette & Morris Kessel Volunteer Services Department in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Lewis A. Phillips, cousin of Beth Israel Trustee Carol P. Green, and 
 RAPHAEL-Sydney M. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Murray B. Hirsch, Pres. Howard Ecker, Secretary       
 SCHEEL-Ted. Caricaturist-Cartoonist, Author, former member St. Louis Cycling Club. On May 8, 1998. Age 99. In New York City. Adored husband of Lita, beloved father of Eugene and family. Cherished uncle of Tinker. His wit, gentleness, modesty and encouragement of the talents of others will f
 TOVSKY-Gary. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member Gary Tovsky and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Roslyn and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Harry Laufer, President       
 VERSTANDIG - William. The Board of Directors, staff, and membership of the Diamond Trade & Precious Stone Association wishes to extend our most heartfelt condolences to the entire family of our past president of eight years. He was a leader in the true sense of the word and will be deeply m
 WARWICK-Kenneth M., 62. Was a rare human being who exuded brilliance, strength, generosity and a dry northern Irish sense of humor throughout his life, even in the face of terminal illness. He died of cancer at home with beloved family on May 13, 1998. Born in Belfast Northern Ireland in 19
 ROTHENBERG-Richard. May 15, 1997 (9 Iyar 5757). Beloved Stuyvesant HS alumnus, teacher, and Math Department Chairman. Dr. Rothenberg influenced thousands of students and scores of teachers with his scholarship, award-winning teaching ability, guidance, and warmheartedness. His gentlemanly, 
 Earl Manigault, a New York City playground legend whose superior basketball talent deteriorated with years of heroin use, depriving him of a chance for a professional career, died Thursday night at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was congestive heart failure, sa
 Frank Sinatra, the singer and actor whose extraordinary voice elevated popular song into an art, died  on Thursday night in Los Angeles. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his publicity agent, Susan Reynolds.  Ms. Reynolds said his fourth wife, Barbara, his son, Frank Jr.
 COLEMAN-Shepard. Cellist. Died May 12 in Valley Hospital, Ridgewood, NJ. Born Brooklyn April 23, 1924. He had acted as conductor and/or musical director for ''Hello Dolly'' Tony 1964, ''Bye-Bye Birdie'' ''Mama'', ''Golden Boy'', ''Henry Sweet Henry'', ''Oh what a lovely War'' and ''The Stud
 MAASE-Charles Peter. On Tuesday, May 12 in the company of friends and family at the home of his parents in Brockville, Ontario, at the age of 49 years. Beloved son of Charles A. and Janet E. Masse of Brockville. Dear brother of Jill Maase and her partner John Richardson of Ottawa, and John 
 MILLER-Jacob J., M.D. age 99, died peacefully on May 14, 1998. Dr. Miller was a revered physician who was a founding member of the Bronx section of the American Psychiatric Association & served as Director of Mental Hygiene at the Morrisania Hospital & Director of the Psychiatric Day Hospit
 SINATRA-Frank. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved Abbot Emeritus Frank Sinatra. To the world he was the Chairman of the Board, but to the Friars he was a friend who touched our lives, not only in song, but also through his 
 WHITING-Edward V. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Edward V. Whiting and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Rose and son Julian. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Robert Fensterman, Secretary       
 Miles W. Kirkpatrick, who oversaw a study that was sharply critical of the Federal Trade Commission and was then given the job of rejuvenating the agency as its chairman, died on May 2 at his home in Strafford, Pa.. He was 79. The cause of death was cancer, according to his son, Wil
 APPEL-Saul Baer, MD, in El Paso, Texas, on April 17, 1998. Beloved husband of Cecile, cherished father of Deborah & Richard Spindel, Carol and Ira Cohen, Anne, Allen, Gary, grandfather, uncle, brother of Ethelyn and Mark Bruck, Sybil Silberman, brother-in-law of Elaine and David Gill. He se
 BRIGGS-J. Kirk, 54. Of Bristol, RI and Truro MA., died Sunday, May 3, of cancer, at his home on Cape Cod. Surviving are his wife Louise Briggs, his sister Kearsley Monroe Briggs, his aunt Monica Brice Hobbs, and his cousin William Brice Hobbs. A memorial is planned for 12 Noon, Saturday, Ma
 COHEN-Milton. The Board of Trustees, Administration & Medical Center Staff of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center note with profound sorrow the death of our distinguished past Associate Director. Milton Cohen was a dedicated & inspired leader, as well as a man of great visi
 GALLAGHER-James P. 57. Died Tuesday in Chicago. A native of Brooklyn, he had a 22 year career at the Chicago Tribune as a writer, editor, Moscow correspondent and mentor to many reporters. He is survived by his wife Barbara, sons Colin, Seamus, Patrick, Neil and Rory; a brother Thomas and a
 HARRINGTON-John (Tommy). Devoted husband of Christine. Beloved son of Kitty and Michael Harrington. Brother of Michael, Denis and Maryann. Brother-inlaw of Lynne and Gail. Uncle of Denise, Vanessa and Vincent. He was Senior Vice President Equity Trader at Nash Weiss and Company, a division 
 HOLZER-Herbert. Age 68. On May 16, 1998. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of Scott and Joan. Beloved grandfather of James and Daniel. Also survived by his brother Sydney. Funeral service Monday, 11:30 AM, Port Jewish Center, 20 Manorhaven Blvd. Interment private.       
 KAUFMAN-Abraham A., M.D. Of NYC and Lake Worth, FL, died at Mount Sinai Hospital, May 4, 1998. Survived by his beloved wife, Pamela, and loving son, Brian. Memorial service at New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64 Street, Tuesday, May 26, at 5 PM. Contributions in his memory to Fr
 KWARTLER-Dr. Charles. At his home in NYC with his family on May 1, 1998. He and his beautiful Ruth just celebrated their 57th anniversary. Born in Stanislau, Austria in 1911, he spent most of his life in the Hackettstown, NJ area. Best known for his pioneering work in the development of pha
 LANDERER-Hy. May 14. Loving Husband of Lyla. Father of Gail, Shelley & Andy. Cherished ''Poppa'' of Isabel. Devoted Brother. Dear Friend to all who knew him. He will be in our hearts always.       
 LEVY-Louis. On May 13, 1998, of Lauderhill, FL, formerly of Brooklyn. ''A mensch to everyone.'' Loving husband of Edith and the late Clara. Adored father of Rabbi Jerrold (Ruth) Levy, Vivian Levy and Sheila (Dr. Harry) Romanowitz. Cherished grandfather of Judith, David and Cherilyn, Ari, Av
 LOVELL-Frank. A prominent socialist writer and author on trade union issues, died in New York City May 1 of a heart attack at the age of 84. He had lived in Manhattan for the past thirty years. Attracted to a revolutionary and democratic variety of socialism often associated with the Social
 MAXWELL-Michael Phillip. A customs attorney, died of a heart attack on May 9, 1998, in Los Angeles, CA, at the age of 48. He will be sorely missed by his family and many friends. He received his B.A. degree from Memphis State University, a law degree from Memphis State University and a Mast
 MEYER-Max B., 81. May 11, 1998. Husband of Edith, father of Peter and the late Elizabeth Glaser. Graduate of Harvard, Max was Vice President of General Cigar Co. for 31 years, and Chairman of Ex-Lax Inc., for 8 years. At his time of retirement when a relaxed life was the wish, Max was calle
 OSOWSKI-Paul David. (August 17, 1947-April 29, 1998) ''Not farewell, not farewell, but faring.'' The gentlest, sweetest, most compassionate, loving man we were privileged to share our lives with, became an angel on April 29th, succumbing to liver cancer after 18 years of successfully living
 ROSENTHAL - Morton. Died peacefully at 89. Husband of Rosalind for 63 years. Loving father of Judy March Rosenthal, Jane Goldman, Sarah Hart and John Rosenthal. Devoted father-in-law of John Goldman and Nancy Rosenthal. Adoring grandfather of Bruce, Carolyn, Linda, Jill, Charlie and Kate. D
 SALAMON - Alexander ''Aba.'' Age 90, born in Kolysvar, Hungary. Lived in Israel, NY and West Palm Beach. Lived a full life and enjoyed every moment of it. His joie di vivre will always be an inspiration to his family: son Itamar and his wife Linda, grandchildren Peggy, Tommy, Betsy and her 
 SUCHOMEL-Phillip Emil. Guitarist Phil Suchomel, age 29, died unexpectedly of complications due to asthma on Saturday, April 25, 1998 in Fresno, California. He was born April 19, 1969, in Madison, Wisconsin. He mastered electric guitar. He studied classical guitar at the University of Wiscon
 VERSTANDIG-William. Died May 12, 1998. A wonderful friend and colleague, a man of grace and charm, and above all else, a man of courage. A man of iron will, determined to fight to the last breath that his body could muster. And so the unequal struggle came to its end. Everyone in our indust
 WASSNER-Abraham. Died May 16, 1998, due to complications of lymphoma. He was the devoted husband of his late wife Clara, loving father of Joan and Steven, and doting grandfather of Regina, Ari and Nancy. A man of immense ability, a linguist par excellence, and an interpreter and translator 
 WEISBERG - Abraham. Passed away peacefully on May 13, 1998 at age 89, in Red Bluff, CA. Son of the late Kopel and Maryashe Weisberg, beloved husband of Carol Ashley Weisberg for 38 years, and the late Edith Israel Weisberg and the late Mary Beth Collister Weisberg. Cherished father of the l
 Thomas A. Williams, the president of the Depository Trust Company in Manhattan, died April 25 at the United Hospital Medical Center in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 61 years old and died shortly after suffering a heart attack while sailing on Long Island Sound, according to William F. J
 William Louther, a leading American modern dancer who also directed the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel and helped to establish modern dance in England, died on May 7 at St. George's Hospital in London. He was 56 and lived in London. The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Sharo
 Austin V. Koenen, a well-known Wall Street banker and public finance specialist who was chief executive of the China International Capital Corporation, an investment banking company owned by the Chinese Government and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, died early this month in Beijing. H
 Frank Ragano, a lawyer for both a Florida mob chieftain and James R. Hoffa of the teamsters' union and later co-author of a book about his experiences with organized crime, died in his sleep on Wednesday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 75. In the book, ''Mob Lawyer'' (Scribner's, 
 Henry Tanner, a Swiss-born reporter who covered everything from wars to diplomatic receptions with equal aplomb during a half-century career in journalism, died on Friday night at a hospital near his weekend home in Honfleur, France. A resident of Paris, he was 79 and had been a for
 John Hawkes, a veteran and highly  praised author of avant-garde and experimental fiction, died on Friday  at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 72 and lived in Providence. The cause was a stroke that Mr. Hawkes had during heart bypass surgery on Monday at the hospital, sai
 GOLDMAN-Harold (Red). On Saturday, May 16. Cherished husband of Edie. Adored father of Chuck and Debbie, Jill and Max, Riki and Larry. Proudest grandfather of Arin, Isaac, Alissa, Channi, Josh, Bennie, Molly and Dassie. Loving brother of Arline and George, Marilyn, Marvin and Marilyn, and H
 KAMISH-Harry. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father to Eugene, Lisa and husband Michel. Loving brother to May Krakow, husband Herman, and the late Sofia K. Levy. Cherished uncle of Robert, Lori, Marianne, Jarrad, Lara and Carly. Distinguished patriarch of our famly and his colleagues. H
 NORTON-George T. Of Atlanta, GA. passed away on May 12, 1998. Born in New York City on April 22, 1910, he attended Columbia University with a B.A. in 1932, New York Law School LLB in 1941. He is survived by four sons: George, Jr. of Birmingham, William of Atlanta, John of Reston, VA., Dougl
 SCHWEBEL-Victor. Age 101. Beloved husband of the late Pauline Pfeffer Schwebel. Father of Jack P. and Stephen M. Schwebel. Father-in-law of Renata Manasse Schwebel and Louise Killander Schwebel. Grandfather of Judith Lerman, Barbara Davis, Diane Freedman, Jennifer and Anna Schwebel. Great-g
 WHITE-Del. Passed away on May 14, 1998, in Lake Oswego, Oregon, at the age of 68. He now joins his wife Nancy who passed away May 6, 1997. He was born in the little town of Kelso, Washington, but his life and love took him around the world. He was the Personnel Director for White Stag for 3
 The Rev. Walter Dray Wagoner Sr., a leader in theological education, author and senior minister emeritus of the Round Hill Community Church in Greenwich, Conn., died on May 7 at Greenwich Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Greenwich. The cause was complications from multiple myeloma, 
 Dr. Sidney Cobb, an epidemiologist who studied the effects of job stress and who in retirement helped inspire a national study of cancer rates near nuclear reactors, died on April 7 at the Woolman Hospital at the Medford Leas, a retirement center near Mount Holly, N.J. He was 81. Th
 BACHMAN-Allan. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of our longtime member, trustee and former officer. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his bereaved wife, Sheila, to his children Ira, Mark and Michael and to the entire family. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabb
 COHEN-Eugene. Tifereth IsraelTown and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Fred Karp, President       
 DRUSIN-Leo. Suddenly on May 17. Beloved husband of Pat (Furst), devoted father of Julie (Steven) Fidelman, Harris (Roberta) Drusin, loving Poppy of Robert and Evan, dear brother of Phyllis (Sam) Weissman and most caring uncle. Services today, 12 Noon, Riverside Nassau North, 55 North Statio
 GUTWEIN-Samuel. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved father of its devoted member, Miriam Gutwein. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 HALPERN-Milton, 92. Unexpectedly on May 16. Adored husband of Gertrude for 51 years. Beloved father, father-in-law, grandfather, brother, brother-in-law, uncle, great-uncle, musician, mentor and friend. At his request, no services.       
 KAMISH-Harry. The Board of Directors, staff and families of the Association for Children with Retarded Mental Development deeply mourn the passing of our beloved colleague and dear friend, founder and former Associate Executive Director. An advocate for people since the 1940's, he was widel
 MONK-Antony. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Judith Schindler, Assoc. Rabbi       
 MONK-Antony (Tony) suddenly on May 16, 1998. Beloved husband of Andrea. Adored father of Samantha, Joanna and Jonathan. Loving brother of Dennis and Myra; uncle of Anton and Barbara, Kerry and Gary, David and Alison. As we move forward, his extroadinary spirit lives through our wonderful me
 NORTON-George T. Of Atlanta, GA. passed away on May 12, 1998. Born in New York City on April 22, 1910, he attended Columbia University with a B.A. in 1932, New York Law School LLB in 1941. He is survived by four sons: George, Jr. of Birmingham, William of Atlanta, John of Reston, VA., Dougl
 ROSENTHAL-Morton. The members of the City Athletic Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Morton Rosenthal, and wish to express heartfelt sympathy to his family. Board of Governors       
 SCHOLL-Walter A. Age 79, retired vice president and member of the New York Stock Exchange passed away at home on Sunday, May 17, 1998 in Boynton Beach, Florida. Mr. Scholl was born on Staten Island, NY and graduated from Cornell University where he distinguished himself on the football fiel
 SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. Outstanding leader of Torah Jewry whose essence reflected a boundless commitment to Klal Yisrael. He creatively united the Yeshiva and Chassidic worlds into a force for public advocacy, the dissemination of Torah and the defense of Jewish rights. A steadfast proponant of
 TIGER-Marvin. The Board of Trustees of The Brookdale University Hospital & Medical Center record with profound sorrow the untimely death of our beloved and distinguished Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Marvin Tiger joined Brookdale in 1994. His dedication to the healthcar
 TONNER-Albert. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President       
 WEBSTER-Charles D. Of Islip, NY, on May 15, 1998 in his ninetythird year. He was the devoted husband of the late Natalie Peters Webster & is survived by nephews John W. Mitchell of Greenwich, CT, James Fitz of CA, and a niece Mary Mitchell of AZ. A graduate of Dartmouth College in 1926, he 
 Rabbi Moshe Sherer, who built a relatively small Orthodox Jewish organization, Agudath Israel of America, into a politically and religiously influential force among American Jewish groups, died Sunday afternoon in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Brooklyn. He died after an illness 
 Alan D. Williams, a skilled and versatile editor and publisher of books by authors ranging from the thriller-writer Frederick Forsyth and the horror writer Stephen King to the novelist Nadine Gordimer, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1991, died on Sunday at his home in Jersey City,
 James Carroll McIntyre, a fund-raiser for the arts and a former executive at Carnegie Hall and the Big Apple Circus, died on Friday at his home in Saylorsburg, Pa. He was 49 and also had a home in Greenwich Village. The cause was not known, said Gary Dunning, executive director of t
 James Carlton Tucker, a national sailing champion in multihulls, died last Thursday at the Fort Walton Beach Medical Center in Florida. He was 38. The cause was a heart attack, said his father, James. Tucker, who was known as Carlton, managed the Boat, a marina in his hometo
 BECHTOLD-Paul E. Age 86. Of Port Washington, Long Island. Died May 18, 1998. Surviving are his wife of 57 years, Mary Louise, his sons Stephen of Northport and Alec of Port Washington, four grandsons, Reuben, Mark, Ned and Gus and one granddaughter, Sandy. Memorial gathering at 28 Kaywood R
 DWECK-Harry S., M.D. The Dept. of Pediatrics of New York Medical College/Westchester Medical Center mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. A giant in the field of neonatology, he pioneered innovative care for sick infants. He established the Regional Tertiary Care Neonatal
 JAVITCH-Jane Hervitz. The Board of Directors, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership, extends deepest condolences to Lee H. Javitch, esteemed Board Member and Past Chairman, on the passing of his beloved mother, Jane Hervitz Javitch. May he and his 
 McCAFFREY-Bernard Michael. Of Atlantic Beach, New York, on May 17th, 1998. Graduate of Manhattan College. Executive Director of St. Mary's Hospital, Brooklyn for 25 years. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Elizabeth (nee Connelly). Loving father of Eileen, Christopher, Michele Miranda, S
 McINTYRE-James C. Died unexpectedly in his sleep on May 15, 1998 at his country home in Pennsylvania. Jim has a legacy of success in arts management from North Carolina to Carnegie Hall to the Big Apple Circus. He left each organization in better shape then when he arrived, a real accomplis
 OELLERICH-John. Age 60, of Old Saybrook, CT. died suddenly on Monday, May 18, 1998 at his home. He was a partner in the consulting firm of M&O. He was the husband of Noel Sagarese Oellerich. He leaves 2 daughters, Kim Oellerich and Kelley Watson. Friends may call at the Swan Funeral Home in
 ROSS-Louis C., 93. Passed away on Sunday, May 17, 1998 in San Diego, CA. A 34 year resident of Eastchester, NY, he lived in San Diego for the past 12 years. He was a C.P.A. and had an active practice well into his 70's. A good man with a gentle nature, he will always be remembered by his wi
 SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. The national administration of Agudath Israel of America mourns the loss of the beloved president Rabbi Moshe Sherer, a man of vision whose extraordinary qualities of intelligence and integrity, strength & stamina, character & charisma, piety and personality, determinati
 SULLIVAN-Colin (John). It is with great sadness his family announce the unexpected, but peaceful death of John Sullivan in Haslemere, England, on Thursday 14th of May, 1998. Dearly loved brother, uncle and friend. Inquiries to Peter Norman, 44 1483 503221.       
 WEBSTER-Charles D. Of Islip, NY, on May 15, 1998 in his ninetythird year. He was the devoted husband of the late Natalie Peters Webster & is survived by nephews John W. Mitchell of Greenwich, CT, James Fitz of CA, and a niece Mary Mitchell of AZ. A graduate of Dartmouth College in 1926, he 
 WEISS-Paul. Devoted to and adored by his family, his wife, Carolyn, and sons, Erik and Nicholas. Cherished brother of Marc and Fred. Passionate, dedicated and beloved teacher, he touched the hearts and lives of many deeply. Services Thursday, 10:30 A.M., at ''Parkside'' Chapel, 66th Avenue 
 WOOD-Stayton. The Board of Trustees, students, faculty, and adminisration of the Fashion Institute of Technology mourn the death of Dr. Stayton Wood, FIT Vice President for Student Affairs. To his wife and family, we extend our sincerest condolences. He was gentle and humane, and his life c
 Robert Griffin, a retired track coach at Florida A&M University who helped guide the career of the sprinter Bob Hayes, died last Wednesday at Tallahassee Memorial Hospital in Florida. Griffin, who lived in Tallahassee, was 81. The cause was a stroke, his wife, Charlotte, said.      
 Sousuke Uno, a former Prime Minister who resigned after two months in the post because of accusations of an extramarital affair, died today in Moriyama, Japan. He was 75. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Uno was an unlikely choice for Prime Minister when he wa
 Finis E. DavisFinis E. Davis, an executive, educator and fund-raiser who spent his life serving the blind at home in Kentucky and around the world, died last Friday at the Episcopal Church Home in Louisville. He was 86. Mr. Davis fulfilled his service to the blind in two main arenas
 Morton Rosenthal, whose family's funeral business evolved through mergers and acquisitions into Time Warner Inc., died on Friday. He was 89. With his brother, Edward, and Edward's son-in-law, Steven J. Ross, Mr. Rosenthal helped run a group of funeral chapels that acquired companies
 BODNER-Leo. Beloved father of Gilda and David Kaufman, Allen & Robin Bodner, Howard and Sara Bodner, cherished grandfather and adored great grandfather. Funeral at 9:30 AM on May 21 at Shomrei Hadas, 3803 14th Ave, Brooklyn, NY. Shivah to be observed at 1134 East 7th St, Brooklyn through We
 CARROLL-Rev. Maurice. On May 19, 1998. Pastor of St. Vincent De Paul Catholic Church on West 23rd Street. Son of the late Kathleen & David. Beloved brother of Eileen McKeown. Survived by six nieces and nephews and 11 grandnieces and nephews. Reposing at the Horn-Dannecker Funeral Home, 336 
 ELSWIT-Eugene. Devoted husband of Muriel for 54 years. Proud and loving father of Larry and Bob, grandfather of Rebecca, Justin and Sarah, father-in-law of Bernice Speiser. A truly gentle and giving man who was more concerned for others than for himself. In lieu of flowers, please send cont
 FIELDS-Nat. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Ellen and Robert. Cherished grandfather. In lieu of flowers memorials may be made in his name to The American Cancer Society or to your favorite charity. Services today, 12 noon at Riverside, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, New Yor
 HARRIS-Harold Leo, M.D. The officers, members and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Dr. Harold Harris of Evanston, Ill. As a Technion Guardian, he demonstrated the highest level of commitment to the TechnionIsrael Institute of Technology, th
 JOSEPH-Jean-Paul. May 20, 1998. Died suddenly at his home in New York City. Beloved husband of Jessica Friedman Joseph. Adored father of Alexandra, Michaela and Talia. Devoted son of Soeurette Levy Joseph. Loving brother of Sylvia Joseph Galambos. Managing Director of JP Joseph & Co., Inc.,
 McINTYRE-James C. The clients, volunteers, staff and Board of Directors of Gay Men's Health Crisis mourn the passing of former board member James C. McIntyre. His dedication will be deeply missed. Mark Robinson, Executive Director. David Hollander, Board Chair.       
 ROSENTHAL-Morton. The Board of Trustees, Clergy and staff of Temple Beth El of Northern Westchester notes with profound sadness the death of Morton Rosenthal, a founder and past president of our congregation. We share in the grief of his wife Rosalind and his daughter Jane Goldman and their
 SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. As charismatic president of Agudas Israel, he shaped and sustained one of the most vital and vibrant Torah communities in America. He was a master conciliator who never compromised his steadfast spiritual principles and values, as he forged lifesaving bridges among dispa
 SHIFRIN-Herbert E. On May 19, 1998. Beloved husband of Norma. Loving father of Roy and David Shifrin and Laura Tarlowe (Paul). Brother of Beatrice Saltzman. Adoring grandfather of William Shifrin and Stephanie and Ezra Tarlowe. Services today, 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and
 SOLOMON-Myron (Mike). On May 18, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Betty, loving father of Nancy and Jane, dear brother of Sylvia Lindner, adoring grandfather of Steven and Janelle, devoted father-in-law of Jeff. Service Thursday 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave. 
 UNGAR-John A., 52. Of Sky Top Farm, died Monday, May 18, at home after a brief illness. The son of the late Sidney & Helen Ungar, Mr. Ungar was a native of New York City and a graduate of the University of Michigan. He was a Real Estate developer and owner. For the last thirty years, he own
 WEAVER-Richard ''Dick'', 89. Former Secretary-Treasurer of ATPAM. Elder statesman, mentor and lion of the New York theatre world. Beloved husband & father, survived by his wife Jill, and sons Chris and Jed. Memorial service to be held Friday 11:30 AM at Stephen Wise Synagogue, 30 West 68 St
 GOLDSTEIN-Abraham. On May 5, 1998. The Society of Jewish Science mourns the loss of its Leader, Chairman and 63-year member at the age of 90. The builder of our home and the guiding light of our Society, may he find eternal peace in G-d's resting place with our other great ones. Memorial se
 George D. Grundy Jr., the last of the world's first fliers, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Leesburg, Fla. He was 99 and had been the sole surviving member of the Early Birds, an international organization of aviation pioneers. He buzzed his share of people and livestock on Sta
 Baron Cudlipp of Aldingbourne, who as editorial director and chairman of the wildly popular Mirror newspapers in the 1950's and 60's brought a new populist vigor to the tabloid press in Britain, died at his home in Chichester, West Sussex, on Sunday. He was 84 and had been suffering from lu
 CARROLL-Rev. Maurice. On May 19, 1998. Pastor of St. Vincent De Paul Catholic Church on West 23rd Street. Son of the late Kathleen & David. Beloved brother of Eileen McKeown. Survived by six nieces and nephews and 11 grandnieces and nephews. Reposing at the Horn-Dannecker Funeral Home, 336 
 ELSWIT-Eugene. Devoted husband of Muriel for 54 years. Proud and loving father of Larry and Bob, grandfather of Rebecca, Justin and Sarah, father-in-law of Bernice Speiser. A truly gentle and giving man who was more concerned for others than for himself. In lieu of flowers, please send cont
 FERSZT-Roger. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Stephen and father-in-law of Robin. Devoted grandfather of Jacqueline and Courtney. Services today, 9:45 a.m. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. FERSZT-Roger.Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our m
 KENNIS-Selma. The employees of Schmutter, Strull, Fleisch send their heartfelt condolences to Bernard Kennis and his family on the passing of his beloved wife Selma       
 KRUGER-Joseph. Ninety-three, of Boca Raton, FL., & Lenox, MA, May 21st, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Frances (Sturm) Kruger, father of Laurie Richman, grandfather of Allison Richman of Newport Beach, CA., and Deborah Richman of Livingston, N.J. Funeral service at Oheb Shalom Congregati
 MARTIN-Roger Louis, Sr., of Boxford, MA. Died May 19 at the Lahey Clinic in Burlington at age 66. He was the husband of Esther M. (Stewart) Martin of Boxford, father of Dr. George Martin, D.M.D. of Lansdowne, PA., Roger Louis Martin, Jr., of High Wycombe, England, and Monique Marguerite Mar
 MENZER-Jesse. At age 93, on May 21, 1998. Loving husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Susan and Larry. Beloved grandfather of Wendy, Zachary and Jonathan. Services will be held today, May 22, at The Riverside Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck, New York. MENZER-Jesse. We mourn the loss 
 ZANKEL-Harold L. Aged 83, son of Max and Lena Zankel, will be missed by his sisters, Gertrude Alpern and Adele Shapiro, and his partners and associates at Ratner's Restaurant. Funeral today at 1 PM at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery. Shiva at Shapiro's, 555 Green Place, Woodmere, New York.       
 William A. Hewitt, who transformed Deere & Company from a midsized Midwestern tractor company to the world's largest producer of agricultural equipment, died on Saturday at his home in Rutherford, Calif. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. As the longti
 Floyd G. Lounsbury, who brought an anthropologist's eye to the study of American Indian languages and helped decipher the hieroglyphs of the Maya, died on May 14 at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. He was 84 and lived in East Haven, Conn. ''He was a master at analyzing complex c
 Francis Goelet, a philanthropist who underwrote the commissions for dozens of new musical works, many opera productions and an important contemporary music recording project, died on Thursday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 72. The cause was esophageal cancer, said Philip Goe
 Frank Lovell, an American disciple of Leon Trotsky's brand of Marxism-Leninism and a New York City writer and editor concerned with socialist and trade-union issues, died on May 1 at his home in the East Village. He was 84. He was a former labor editor of The Militant, the newsweekl
 Dr. Herbert Chasis, a medical researcher at New York University College of Medicine whose early analysis of how the kidney works became required reading for generations of American medical students, died on May 11 at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. ''H
 John William Berry Sr., a philanthropist who made a fortune taking the Yellow Pages global, died on Wednesday at Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton, Ohio. He was 75 and lived in New Carlisle, Ohio. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Berry, a native of 
 GOELET-Francis. 1926-1998. Died at his home in Riverside, Conn, May 21st. Son of Robert Walton Goelet and Anne Marie Guestier. Survived by his sister, Beatrice G. Manice and two brothers, Robert G. Goelet and John Goelet. A patron of the arts and a businessman who looked after his family in
 HEUMAN-Kenny. Now the world can know Superman wasn't Clark Kent, it was Kenny Heuman. He showed us the meaning of true strength, the beauty of the mountains, the poetry of snow. He leaves behind a legacy of friendship and memories, & his loving wife Karen, his Lois Lane. She matched him str
 KWARTLER-Harry F. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Harry F. Kwartler, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife Pearl and family its deepest sympathy. Saul Friedland, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary       
 MONTERO-Frank C. Activist; advocate of justice in all that he did in his working life especially in the area of equalizing opportunities for minorities. Father of Curle M. Lee of England, Marianne Montero of Riverdale in the Bronx, Laurie Montero of Ashland, Oregon; grandfather of Lindsey, 
 STRAUSS-Simon D., 86. Of New Rochelle, N.Y., and Lenox, MA., May 22, 1998. Peacefully at home of cancer. He was the husband of Janet M. Strauss for 15 years following the death of Elaine M. Strauss; the father of Peter L. Strauss of Hastings-on-Hudson and Susan D. Orr of Sacramento, CA.; th
 UNGAR-John A. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed friend and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Aine, his family and friends. Board, Staff, and Volunteers Federation to Preserve the Greenwich Village Waterfront       
 Don Wharton, an editor and a prolific writer of magazine articles, died on May 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Wharton's byline was familiar to readers of Look, The Saturday Evening Post, Collier's, Cosmopolitan, Reader's Digest and other magazines for nearly 50 years. He
 COOPER-Herbert J. Of Port Liberte, Jersey City, and Long Beach Long Island, NJ. Formerly of Short Hills, South Orange and Hillside. Beloved husband of Deborah; devoted father of Martha and Sarah; Loving grandfather of Jacob Palmer; dear brother of Stuart F. Cooper. Memorial service Monday, 
 GOELET-Francis. We mourn with profound sadness, the death of our dear friend Francis Goelet. A Member of our Board of Directors for more than four decades, the longest tenure of any board member in the Metropolitan Opera's modern history, Francis Goelet's distinquished service on our board 
 HEDER-MANDY-Thomas T. 55, on May 22, 1998 in Sarasota, FL. Loving husband of Sondra Kay. Father of Tyson, Christy Collins and Brian Hutson. Son of Klara Heder and nephew of Laszlo de Mandy. Tom spent his entire career in the hotel and club business and was the General Manager of the Yale Cl
 HEUMAN-Kenneth B. Our beloved Kenny, cherished by all who knew him. The very best father and adoring husband imaginable. His zest for living never waned. He was a hero in every sense of the word. How fortunate for us that he was our dear friend. Karen, Randi and Harvey, Cheryl, and Alexis w
 KRUGER-Joseph. The Board of Directors of the New York Section of the American Camping Association notes with deep sadness the passing of our esteemed Past President and current Endowment Fund Chairman, Joseph Kruger. His vision, leadership, hard work and continued involvement in the field o
 LEVY-Arthur M. Adored husband of Elaine. Loving father, grandfather and great-grandfather. Services today, 12 noon, Gutterman's, 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre. LEVY-Arthur. The New York Design Center mourns the passing of its former Director and close associate. He will be g
 OLFF-Carmen Alva. Died peacefully May 18, 1998, losing a courageous battle against lung cancer at 55. Well-known in the music business, long-time Manager of the Lone Star Roadhouse, NYC, he immeasurably enriched the lives of all who knew him. He is survived by his beloved children Cassandra
 PERLMUTTER-Joseph A. May 20, 1998 in Boca Raton, Florida. Born in Poughkeepsie, New York. Beloved husband of Bette. Father of Joel and Fred. Brother of Alvin. He contributed so much to his family and his communities in Poughkeepsie and Boca Raton. He will be deeply missed.       
 REIS-Jack. Of North Lauderdale, FL., formerly of NYC, died May 21st, 1998 at 89 years of age. Jack is survived by Marion, his wife of 62 years, son, Michael, daughterin-law, Leslie, and grandchildren, Aaron and Rachelle. Services to be held at Menorah Chapel, Sunrise, FL, on Sunday, May 24.
 RIPOSANU-Pamfil. On May 22, 1998. Beloved husband of Marguerite. Loving father of Ann Maria and son-in-law Jan Ter Haar. Also survived by a brother-in-law, two sisters-in-law and 10 nieces and nephews. Lawyer and former Ambassador from the Kingdom of Romania to Washington. A very special, g
 ROTHBARDT-Seymour. The Accident Prevention & Safety League notes with sorrow the death of Seymour Rothbardt. Seymour served as President of the League for over 25 years and was instrumental in developing and promoting its insurance programs for the Building Maintenance Industry. His gruff e
 SCHUMER-Arlene. The employees of Marcus Brothers Textiles and Knit Trends express their deepest sympathy to Jerry Schumer and his family at the passing of their beloved wife, mother and grandmother.       
 STRAUSS-Simon D., 86. Of New Rochelle, N.Y., and Lenox, MA., May 22, 1998. Peacefully at home of cancer. He was the husband of Janet M. Strauss for 15 years following the death of Elaine M. Strauss; the father of Peter L. Strauss of Hastings-on-Hudson and Susan D. Orr of Sacramento, CA.; th
 UNGAR-John. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of its devoted alumnus and benefactor who always appreciated the education he received in our school and helped others to benefit from it as well. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his dear wife Anne, to his children and to the entire ber
 WISNER-Charles H., 91. Of Manasota Key, Florida, died May 20 1998 in Englewood, Florida. He was born October 30, 1906, in New York City, was raised in Summit, New Jersey and later moved to Weston, Connecticut where he lived most of his life before coming to Manasota Key in 1971. Mr. Wisner 
 KANTERMAN-Edgar A., D.D.S. A devoted and beloved husband of Phyllis Cogin Kanterman. He was graduated from Tilden High School, City College & NYU School of Dentistry. In World War II, he was a Captain with the Military Police in Massachusetts, Maine, United Kingdom, France & Manila and serv
 Telford Taylor, a principal prosecutor of high Nazi officials and leading German industrialists at the Nuremberg war crimes trials after World War II, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90. His wife, Toby Golick, said the cause of death was a
 Buster Cleveland, who first gained attention for his zany, meticulously made Dadaist collages in the East Village galleries of the early 1980's, died on May 6 at Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens. He was 55. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his dealer, Gracie Mansion. Mr.
 Charles Drake Webster, a Long Island conservationist, gardener and stalwart of organizations like the Horticultural Society of New York and the Seatuck National Wildlife Refuge in Islip, died on May 15 at Southside Hospital in Bay Shore. He was 92 and lived at Twyford, his home and part of 
 David Schneider, who as an executive for British Airways led the successful fight to bring the supersonic Concorde to New York, died May 1 at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. A native of the Bronx, Mr. Schneider was the chief 
 Mark Tarail, an expert in community mental health programs and an adviser on the Federal and state levels, died on May 5 at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 87. During the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, Dr. Tarail helped write legislation that fostered mental health centers nat
 Frank C. Montero, a racial pioneer who in his various guises as political gadfly, government official, foundation executive and real estate developer devoted his life to smoothing the way toward an integrated society, died on May 8 at a nursing home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 89 and a longtim
 Harold Orenstein, an entertainment lawyer who helped redefine the copyright status of musical theater, died on May 15 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. In 1945 Mr. Orenstein became the head of nonradio licensing for Broadcast Music Inc., which r
 Irwin Randolph Hedges, the first coordinator of Food for Peace, a Federal program that delivered surplus American food to needy countries, died May 13 in Washington after a stroke. He was 83 and lived in Washington. Mr. Hedges began his work in agriculture, development and trade at 
 Kenneth Dale Wells, a founder and the spiritual father of the Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge, which fosters patriotism and understanding of the Constitution and Bill of Rights, died on May 10 at his retirement home in Edgewater, Fla. He was 89. The cause was complications from 
 Merle E. Severy, who founded the National Geographic Society's book division and edited many of its most popular titles, died on May 13 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, the society said. Among the books that Mr. Severy produced a
 CARBONI-Daniel. Of NYC, formerly of Teaneck, NJ, on May 19, 1998. Beloved son of Francesco and Susan (Gordon) Carboni. Dear brother of Peter. Loving grandson of Alice Gordon. Cherished nephew of Martin Gordon. Dan did stand-up comedy in various clubs in NY; he also interned at Politically I
 ENGELMAN-Abraham. Passed away on May 23 in Springfield, MA, at age 94. He was born in Russia but spent most of his life in NYC. He was an eminent constitutional jurist who had cases before the state and federal courts in NY including the Appellate and Appeals Court of the State of New York 
 HALPERN-Milton. May 21, 1906May 16, 1998. The Halpern family cherishes the memory of this passionate participant in a turbulent century, whose monumental intellect, brilliant musicianship, and political acumen inspired so many. His daughters Lucy Johns and Ellen Kauffman, their children, sp
 KRUGER-Joseph. The entire staff of the Mohawk Day Camps and the Home School mourns the passing of our beloved President whose vast camping experience and wisdom helped to guide our organization for more than 30 years. His profound commitment to the children we served and their parents was a
 LUCK-David Jonathan Louis, 70, on May 23, 1998, scientist, alive in the hearts of the many to whom he generously gave the gift of love and friendship.       
 QUIRIN-Edward J. 87, of 9 Bayberry Ridge Road, died Friday, May 22, 1998 at Essex Meadows Healthcare Facility, Essex, CT. Mr. Quirin was born in New York City on April 26, 1911 the son of Lewis and Bertha Krepps Quirin. He has lived in Old Lyme for the past 25 years and was formerly from Ne
 RIPOSANU-Pamfil. On May 22, 1998. Beloved husband of Marguerite. Loving father of Ann Maria and son-in-law Jan Ter Haar. Also survived by a brother-in-law, two sisters-in-law and 10 nieces and nephews. Lawyer and former Ambassador from the Kingdom of Romania to Washington. A very special, g
 TOMPKINS-Leslie Jay II. At Toronto, on Friday, May 22, 1998, at the age of 50. Grandson of the late Professor and Mrs. Leslie Jay Tompkins of New York, son of the late James B. Tompkins, and brother of the late James, Jr. Survived by his mother Patricia Tompkins, sister Teresa Tompkins, and
 Philip Barry Jr., a producer of plays, films and a number of highly regarded television shows, died on  May 16 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Patricia. Mr. Barry, whose father was the author of such
 Simon David Strauss, a leading expert on metals markets and a former vice chairman and of Asarco Inc., died on Friday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 86. During a long career associated with the metals industry, Mr. Strauss worked as a journalist, market analyst, wartime ad
 Telford Taylor, a principal prosecutor of high Nazi officials and leading German industrialists at the Nuremberg war crimes trials after World War II, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90. His wife, Toby Golick, said the cause of death was a
 Vice Adm. Kleber Sandlin Masterson, a battleship gunnery officer in World War II and an ordnance expert who helped build the Navy's arsenal of nuclear missiles, died on May 3 at Inova Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 89. As a newly promoted rear admiral in 1957, Admiral
 Angelus N. Cotsidas, a founder and chairman of the Table Talk Pastry Company, died on May 10, at his home in Westboro, Mass. He was 96. Mr. Cotsidas, a Greek immigrant, started Table Talk in 1924, with Theodore Tonna and Wilfred A. Casavant. Initially, the company sold pastries to r
 Dr. David Rauch, a lifelong New York educator and specialist in adult education, died on May 9 at White Plains Hospital Center. A former resident of Fresh Meadows, N.Y., he was 79 and had been living in a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He suffered a long illness, according to Ronna
 BASTEK-James V., M.D. It is with profound shock and sorrow that we mourn the untimely and tragic death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. James V. Bastek. A retinal associate with our ophthalmic practice for over ten years, we knew him to be a brilliant and caring physician. We also knew and re
 BURT-James Jackson. Award winning sculptor & painter of Stamford, CT., age 43. A victim of bi-polar illness, he took his own life on May 4. Beloved son of Eleanor Jackson Burt Migdal of New York City & David Burt of Stamford. His art appeared in solo exhibitions at the Kalarson, Kerr & Hump
 CHAFETZ-Benjamin. Age 80, passed on peacefully in his sleep May 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Rosalind (nee Balterman) for 59 years. Devoted father of Helen Frank and Judy Good. Proud and loving grandfather of Bob, Ronni, Adam, Lauren, Bryan and Allison & uncle of several nieces. Retired CPA
 COAKLEY-Charles. It is with deep sorrow that the Mayor and Board of Trustees record the death of Charles Coakley of 208 Beach Walk, Saltaire, on Friday, May 22nd, 1998. A resident of the Village for over 25 years, Charles was a man of learning, wit and caring to all who knew him. We extend 
 GOELET-Francis. The Board and staff of the Metropolitan Opera Guild join the musical world in mourning the death of our friend, Francis Goelet. First elected to the Guild's board of directors in 1952 at the age of 27, he served with distinction and contributed significantly to the Guild. In
 HAINES-Charles Murray Robert. May 19, 1998 in Ottawa, Canada. Born on May 22, 1928. Professor & Critic. He is survived by his wife, Claudia, his son, Charles Henry Persi Haines, and his sister, Mrs. Barbara Edwards. In lieu of flowers, please buy a theatre ticket.       
 KIDDER-Henry. Of Oyster Bay, NY. Died Saturday morning, May 23, 1998, at his home in Oyster Bay. Much loved and survived by his wife, Reine, & sons, Henry, Tracy, and Tim. He is also survived by sisters, Anne, Maria, and Amy as well as by 3 grandchildren. After graduating from Harvard Colle
 LIEBOWITZ-Simon J. Attorney, NYS Senator, NYS Civil and Supreme Court Judge. Adored husband of Elsie. Devoted and caring father of Gloria and Bernard Herman, Burt and Linda Liebowitz, and the late Sonia Brodsky. Cherished grandfather of Esther, Ruth, Judith, Mindy, Steven, Suzanne, Ellen & 
 OGORZALY - Stanley Francis, M.D. of North Palm Beach, Florida on May 21, 1998. He was Chief of Cardiology and Co-Chairman of Intensive Care Unit, St. John's Riverside Hospital, Yonkers, New York. Graduate of Fordham University & Georgetown University receiving his medical degree. Survived b
 RIPOSANU-Pamfil. On May 22, 1998. Beloved husband of Marguerite. Loving father of Ann Maria and son-in-law Jan Ter Haar. Also survived by a brother-in-law, two sisters-in-law and ten nieces and nephews. Lawyer and former Ambassador from the Kingdom of Romania to Washington. A very special, 
 TOWNSEND - Richard Edward. Died of a stroke on May 22, 1998 in Buckinghamshire while on a tour of the British Isles. He was 68 years of age. Richard Townsend was born on January 22, 1930 in San Bernardino, CA. As a youth, he was trained as a Hollywood actor and dancer and pursued a career i
 Philip Hardy Rhodes, a yacht designer of sailboats as diverse as modern ocean racers and topsail schooners, died May 5 at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 72. Mr. Rhodes, who lived in Oyster Bay, N.Y., died of cancer, said Paul D. Barefoot, a family friend. Bes
 ARNAUD-Daniel L., 62, Of Bloomington, IN, died on May 24th. Mr. Arnaud was born May 29, 1935 in New York City, the son of Leonard E. and Martha Lindemuth. He was Associate Director of the Salzburg Seminar in Salzburg, and was Executive Director of the Thomas J. Watson Foundation with primar
 CHAFETZ-Benjamin. Age 80, passed on peacefully in his sleep May 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Rosalind (nee Balterman) for 59 years. Devoted father of Helen Frank and Judy Good. Proud and loving grandfather of Bob, Ronni, Adam, Lauren, Bryan and Allison & uncle of several nieces. Retired CPA
 DEVER-Gerald R. On May 25, 1998. Educator/Guidance Counselor. Beloved husband of Mary (nee Tully); devoted father of Michael; loving brother of Carol Dever and Joan Mikusinski. Reposing at Denis S. O'Connor Funeral Home, 9105 Beach Channel Drive, Rockaway Beach, NY. Mass of Christian Burial
 FRIEDMAN-Lawrence. Former Postmaster of Teaneck, NJ died May 25, 1998 after a long illness. He leaves his loving wife, Clara; daughters Barbara Friedman and Karen Glaser; two grandsons and sister, Miriam Drabkin.       
 GERARD-Julian, eighty. Died peacefully at his home in Palm Beach, FL on May 25, 1998. He will be sorely missed by his family and many friends there, in New York, N.Y. & Redding, CT where he also maintained homes. In accordance with his wishes, there will be no memorial service and the inter
 KAMENY-Nat, 1923-1998. Nat Kameny, 74, a public relations executive widely credited with having launched the Japanese camera industry in the United States, died at his home in Bergenfield, N.J. on Monday, May 25 of complications from heart failure. A dedicated and creative activist for Isra
 KRAFT-Jules. Beloved grandfather of Dylan, Morrison, Marley and Stella; loving father of Neil, Ronald and Susan; husband to Susan; died May 26, 1998. A gathering in his memory will be held at the CAC, 50 W. 54th St, at 11AM on May 29. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Mastocy
 LENIHAN-Kenneth J. We mourn the passing of Ken Lenihan, retired Professor of Sociology at John Jay College. Ken had extraordinary compassion, an uncommon wit and the brilliance and melancholy of the finest Irish poets. He will be treasured and missed by his dear sisters, Eileen, Moira, Jean
 LIEBOWITZ-Simon J. Attorney, NYS Senator, NYS Civil and Supreme Court Judge. Adored husband of Elsie. Devoted and caring father of Gloria and Bernard Herman, Burt and Linda Liebowitz, and the late Sonia Brodsky. Father-in-law of Leonard Brodsky. Cherished grandfather of Esther, Ruth, Judith
 LUCK-David J. L. The Rockefeller University community mourns with abiding sadness the loss of our distinguished colleague and beloved friend David J.L. Luck. Dr. Luck, Alfred E. Mirsky Professor & Vice President for Academic Affairs at the Rockefeller University, was a pioneer in the field 
 NITTI-Savino. Of Head of the Harbor, New York. Formerly of West Hempstead, on May 25, 1998 on his 87th birthday. Beloved husband of Nancy. Devoted father of Francis Mazzara and Maria Frase. Cherished grandfather of Marissa, Stephanie and Elizabeth. Loving great grandfather of David. Dear br
 RIPOSANU-Pamfil. The Marymount School Board of Trustees, Administration and entire School community mourn the death of our beloved friend, colleague and Trustee Emeritus, Pamfil (Rip) Riposanu. A member of the Board since 1977, he shared his legal expertise and provided strong leadership an
 SABARSKY-David. Died shortly after his 80th birthday on May 26th, 1998 after suffering from a long illness.       
 SCHECK-Jerome L. The Officers and employees of Scheck-Rosenblum-Sierra Textiles, Inc. mourn the passing of our retired Chairman of the Board. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Eleanor, and his family. We will all miss his guidance and friendship. Bob Rosenblum, Chairman Murray Y
 STRAUSS-Simon D. The Trustees and Administration of the Manhattan School of Music mourn with deep sadness the death of our dear friend, Simon D. Strauss. A member of our Board of Trustees for two decades, we recall his wisdom, generosity and commitment. His friendship and loyalty will be re
 TAYLOR-Telford. The Board of Directors, faculty, students and staff of Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law of Yeshiva University deeply mourn the death of our colleague, mentor and model. A member of the original Cardozo faculty, Professor Taylor helped found and guide the law school, providi
 LIPPMAN-Bert J. Seventeen long years have passed since he left us. We miss you everyday. You are always in our hearts. We love you. Ruth, Jane, Robin, Chuck, Stefan, Jessica and Bradley       
 Roy Evans, the longtime president of the International Table Tennis Federation, died on May 18 in Cardiff, Wales, where he was born. He was 88 and has been credited with coming up with the idea of what he winced at having called Ping-Pong Diplomacy, the 1971 initiative that paved the way fo
 Simon J. Liebowitz, a former New York State Supreme Court justice and State Senator from Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92 and a resident of Palm Beach and Brooklyn. From 1960 to 1969, Mr. Liebowitz, a Democrat endorsed by the Citizens
 Carl H. Builder, an analyst with the Rand Corporation whose views on military affairs were widely quoted, died on May 20 at his home in Culver City, Calif. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said Jess Cook, Rand's director of public information. At his death, Mr. Builder was a
 Fred E. Inbau, an early criminologist who helped elevate trickery and deceit to a high art of police interrogation, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Chicago. He was 89 and had been a longtime law professor at Northwestern University. In a time when law professors have o
 COIMBRA-Carlos. Died May 24, 1998 after a courageous struggle with AIDS. Carlos was the beloved life companion of the late Chip Conrad as well as his business partner in Larkspur Flowers. Carlos created beauty and joy and will be deeply missed by those he touched. Carlos leaves his sister, 
 FREEMAN-Frank. Of New York City and Point O' Woods, Fire Island, age 77, on May 24, at home. Beloved husband of Beverly, loving father of Howard and James, and daughters-in-law Karen and Rachel. Also survived by his stepmother Mary Freeman, brothers George and Richard and sister Mary Cather
 FRIEDMAN-Lawrence. Former Postmaster of Teaneck, NJ died May 25, 1998 after a long illness. He leaves his loving wife, Clara; daughters Barbara Friedman and Karen Glaser; two grandsons and sister, Miriam Drabkin.       
 GIMBEL-Nicholas Steiner. Died May 25, 1998. Cherished husband, father, brother, grandfather, uncle and friend. His wife, Amy, his children, Elizabeth, Victoria and Nicholas, his brothers, Tom and Stinor, and his grandchildren, Beatrice, Chloe, Emma, Amos, Rebecca, Isabella, Eliza and Anne, 
 GRINDROD-Robert John. We sadly announce the untimely death of our Robert. Family and friends will be celebrating his life at St. George's Episcopal Church at Stuyvesant Square, 209 East 16th St, Saturday, May 30, 5 PM. Friends and family welcomed. Visitation at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd
 HYMOWITZ-Bernard. Beloved husband of Judith and the late Ronnie. Loving father of Ira, Phillip and Fran Lerner; stepfather of Eric, Todd and Jonathan Sorrin; adored grandfather of Adam, Rachel, Samantha, Jason, Michelle, Elana, Joshua, Jacob, Aaron & Daniel; dear brother of Stanley. Service
 KAO-Chien Yuan. Died unexpectedly at the age of 70 Tuesday evening at his home in Pound Ridge, New York. He was born in Shanghai, China on Decembr 20, 1927; son of Dr. Ching Lang and Mrs. Yu Yuen Kao. Chien Yuan Kao came to the United States in 1948, and earned his medical degree from SUNY 
 KATZ-Jacob. The Center for Israel and Jewish Studies, Columbia University, mourns the passing in Jerusalem of Professor Jacob Katz, one of the greatest Jewish scholars of our century. Born in Hungary and educated in Germany, he taught Jewish history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem fro
 KRAFT-Jules. Beloved grandfather of Dylan, Morrison, Marley and Stella; loving father of Neil, Ronald and Susan; husband to Susan; died May 26, 1998. A gathering in his memory will be held at the CAC, 50 W. 54th St, at 11AM on May 29. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Mastocy
 LEVIK-Ted. Passed away on Tuesday, May 26, 1998. Survived by his wife, Celia, daughter, Carol DeBear, and son-in-law Elliot DeBear, Jesse and Hannah, and son Richard. Funeral services Friday, May 29 at 10:30 A.M., Scarsdale Synagogue,       
 LIEBOWITZ-Simon. We record with regret and sadness the death of Simon Liebowitz at age 92 on May 24, 1998. Prior to serving in the New York Senate and as Justice of the State Supreme Court, he had been our Union's first General Counsel and later was the impartial chairman of our Legal Benef
 ROZETT-Jack. In Branford, CT, May 27, 1998 of 8 Huntington Dr., Branford, CT. formerly of NY. Beloved husband of Barbara Goldman Rozett; a devoted employee of Legett & Platt, he is also survived by three daughters, Pamela Hettrich, Lisa Friedman and Shawn Senning; brother Lawrence Rozett of
 SULLER-Chaim, died May 26, age 96, at Beth Israel Hospital. For many years co-editor of the Yiddish Morning Freiheit, journalist and teacher. Survived by his wife, Elsie; daughter, Dina Brey; grandchildren, David, Samantha and Isaac. Services Friday, May 29, 12 o'clock, at the Gramercy Chap
 Wolf Mankowitz, a writer of eclectic interests whose prolific output extended to novels, plays, television drama and films, died on May 20 in County Cork, Ireland, where he lived. He was 73. When he retired from writing books in 1991, he disclosed that he had terminal cancer.       
 Arthur F. Mathews, who helped build one of the country's leading legal practices dealing with securities enforcement and white collar crime, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 60. The cause was complications from stomach cancer, according to his brother-in-law, Ben Cri
 George C. Dade, who as a boy on Long Island was so enthralled watching the pioneering giants of aviation take off from his front yard that he devoted much of his life to preserving memories of those early pilots and restoring some of their planes, died on Wednesday at a hospital near his ho
 BODIG-Richard Diran, 75. Died unexpectedly on May 26. Beloved husband of Joyce and loving father of Christian and Paul. A person of rare wit, sensitivity and wisdom, he enriched the world around him. Memorial service at All Souls Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue, Tuesday, June 2, at 
 BUCHHEIM-Simon. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Simon Buchheim, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Harry Laufer, President       
 GIMBEL-Nicholas. My good friend for more than twenty years. I already miss his wisdom and wit. Condolences to Amy and all of the children. Martin Askowitz       
 GUZZO-Anthony, 75. Died May 28, 1998 at Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, NY. He was born October 8, 1922 to Anthony and Fannie Guzzo in Brooklyn, New York. Would any kin or anyone knowing any next of kin contact the Central New York DSO (collect) at 315336-2300 regarding any special funeral ar
 HYMOWITZ-Bernard. Beloved husband of Judith and the late Ronnie. Loving father of Ira, Phillip and Fran Lerner; stepfather of Eric, Todd and Jonathan Sorrin; adored grandfather of Adam, Rachel, Samantha, Jason, Michelle, Elana, Joshua, Jacob, Aaron & Daniel; dear brother of Stanley. Service
 MASLOW-Lewis. Of North Miami Beach. Passed away May 27, 1998 in his home. He is survived by daughter Linda Maslow of Arlington, VA. and son Bob Maslow of Brooklyn, NY; grandchildren Chelsea, Susan, Peter, Katy; sister Ruth Lewis. Services Monday in Florida. For information contact Riverside
 PAWLIN-Edward T. Age 69. Died May 23, 1998 in Old Lyme, CT. Many will miss him, a few miss his friendship. Louis Weinel       
 ROZETT-Jack. In Branford, CT, May 26, 1998 of 8 Huntington Dr., Branford, CT. formerly of NY. Beloved husband of Barbara Goldman Rozett; a devoted employee of Legett & Platt, he is also survived by three daughters, Pamela Hettrich, Lisa Friedman and Shawn Senning; brother Lawrence Rozett of
 SCHRADER-Martin. Died peacefully on May 28th, surrounded by the family he created. Beloved husband of Ceil, adored father of Howard, Dan and Esther and blessed grandfather of Hannah and Gregory. Magazine publisher, writer, intellect, adventurer, creator, raconteur, Dad was a man of unparall
 SULLER-Chaim, died May 26, age 96, at Beth Israel Hospital. For many years co-editor of the Yiddish Morning Freiheit, journalist and teacher. Survived by his wife, Elsie; daughter, Dina Brey; grandchildren, David, Samantha and Isaac. Services Friday, May 29, 12 o'clock, at the Gramercy Chap
 TOMMANEY-John J. Of New York City, Stockbridge, MA and Bellair, FL. May 23, 1998. He was born in Albany, N.Y. on August 25, 1920. Mr. Tommaney attended All Hallows and Fordham University and received his Jurist Doctorate from Columbia Law School. He proudly served in the 10th Mountain Divis
 Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona, the recklessly candid Republican Presidential candidate who founded the modern conservative political movement in America, died yesterday at his home in Paradise Valley, a suburb of Phoenix. He was 89. A statement made public by the family said he died
 Bob Patino, an interior designer known for the quiet sophistication of his design work for homes, stores and restaurants and for his subtle experimentation with materials and textures, died on May 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause was leukemia, Vicente Wolf, his form
 George Wright, a master theater organist with such a deft touch it was said he could make a mighty Wurlitzer swing when it wasn't actually jitterbugging, died on May 10 at a Los Angeles hospital near his home atop the Hollywood Hills. He was 77. Friends said the cause was congestive
 Martin H. Schrader, a former publisher at three Hearst magazines, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. Mr. Schrader, a resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., was 73. He died of a lung disease, his wife, Ceil, said. Mr. Schrader joined House Beautiful, on
 DANIEL-Jere. On May 29, 1998. Friend-and-partner of Hara Marano, father of Josh & Sean Daniel, & step-father to Gabe and Daniel Marano. Grandfather of Lily, Daniel and Quincy Daniel. Family and friends will be gathering to say goodbye on Sunday, May 31 at 12 noon at Frank E. Campbell, 1070 
 GILLIGAN-John Philip III. 67. Died May 23. Survived by his brothers, James of Cambridge, MA., and Mike of Garrison, NY and his 3 nephews, Jonathan, Timothy and Christopher Gilligan. Visiting 13:30PM Saturday, May 30 at Morehead-McLain-Gallaher, 424 West 51st Street. Services Saturday, May 3
 GUZZO-Anthony, 75. Died May 28, 1998 at Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, NY. He was born October 8, 1922 to Anthony and Fannie Guzzo in Brooklyn, New York. Would any kin or anyone knowing any next of kin contact the Central New York DSO (collect) at 315336-2300 regarding any special funeral ar
 OHRINGER-Harold. The Board of Governers and Members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Harold Ohringer. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his entire family. Leon Fassler, President Kenneth Auerbach, Secretary       
 SINATRA-Francis Albert, Ph.D.; '85 Hon. D. Eng; Stevens Institute of Technology. On this Stevens Alumni weekend, alumni mourn the recent death of Frank, our fellow alumnus, and are thankful for his good works for Stevens. Guys of '53       
 STRAUSS-Simon D. The Board, staff and clients of The Women's Prison Association and Home mourn the passing of a loyal friend who will always be remembered with gratitude and affection. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and love to his wife Janet McCloskey Robbins Strauss, former Board member
 Philip L. Carret, a founder of one of the country's first mutual funds and a legendary investor who swapped investment ideas with Warren E. Buffett's father half a century ago, died on Thursday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Mount Vernon, N.Y., where he was recovering from hip surgery. He was 
 Chaim Suller, a longtime editor of The Morning Freiheit, a left-wing Yiddish newspaper in New York, who criticized Soviet policy regarding Jewish culture, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 96 and lived in the East Village of Manhattan. Mr. Suller was
 Dr. David J. L. Luck, a New York educator and biologist who contributed significantly to the field of cell biology, died on May 23 at New York Hospital. He was 69 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was lymphoma, according to Rockefeller University, where he was
 John Wesley Jones, a retired Foreign Service officer, Ambassador to Libya and Peru and a former deputy commandant of the National War College, died on May 20 in his home in Flat Rock, N.C. He was 90. He retired in 1972 after three years at the War College and 42 years in the Foreign
 BROWN-Harrison Oliver, Jr., M.D. 69. Of Flemington, NJ, on May 29, 1998. Beloved husband of Jean Abel Cramer Brown, M.D. Devoted father of David Littleton Brown and Steven Holloway Brown, M.D. Loving brother of Juluis Bunting Brown. A memorial service will take place Friday, June 19 at 3 PM
 DANIEL-Jere. On May 29, 1998. Friend-and-partner of Hara Marano, father of Josh and Sean Daniel, and step-father to Gabe and Daniel Marano. Grandfather of Lily Daniel and Quincy Daniel. Family and friends will be gathering to say goodbye on Sunday, May 31 at 12 noon at Frank E. Campbell, 10
 DeWEERDT-Arthur L. Died May 29, 1998, at home. Survived by a friend, Raul Urrejola. He was a retired editor from McGraw Hill in NYC, where he was employed for approximately 40 years. Services were private at the A.K. Macagna Funeral Home, Cliffside Park, NJ.       
 DUNLAP-Jack. On May 25, 1998. Devoted friend of Jack Metcalf. During his thirty years at the Metropolitan Opera House, he was most recently the Assistant to Chairman Mrs. Louise Humphries. After his retirement, he did volunteer work at several organizations. Contributions in his memory may 
 FIALKOFF-Jacob. Devoted husband of the late Ethel. Loving father of David and Rosalie Fialkoff, Susan and William Webster. Beloved brother of Ivy. Adored grandfather of Adam, Laura, Stuart. Great-grandfather of Mitchell and Staci. He was a cofounder and past president of Congregation Beth S
 FINE-Arthur. October 14, 1902 - May 27, 1998, of Tucson, AZ, formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of Sylvia for 64 years. Adored father of Alice Fine, Joseph Fine & Lucy Rosengarten. Cherished grandfather of Leslie Fine, Dina Davenport, Daniel Rosengarten and the late Ruth and Jonatha
 FRANKEL-Charles, 81. Beloved husband of 50 years to Constance. Devoted father of Sherry and Van. Cherished grandfather of Troy, Tara and Daniel. Brother of Margaret and David. Services Monday at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. He was an attorney, loungewea
 HYMOWITZ-Bernard. The Staff of Weinstein and Holtzman, Inc, deeply regrets the passing of Bernard Hymowitz, the former President and co-owner of The Company. We extend heartfelt condolences to all the members of his family.       
 JAFFE-Irving. On May 29, 1998 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Bertha and loving father of Mark Jaffe and Beth Pressman; grandfather of Kimberly and Lauren Pressman; father-in-law of June Jaffe. Strong, kind, remarkable and hard working, he w
 KAO-Chien Yuan (Eric), MD. The administration, faculty, staff and students of the State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn mourn the sudden passing of Chien Yuan (Eric) Kao, MD, Professor of Pharmacology, and an alumnus of the Health Science Center. Our deepest sympath
 KLEIN-Stanley. A profound loss to his wife and family. To John, a loss of a father, mentor and best friend. Bob Feinberg       
 LANDBERG-Hans. The Beverly Bridge Club mourns the sudden death of our dear friend Erik. He was dearly loved and will be missed by the entire Bridge community. A memorial service will be announced.       
 LUCK-David Jonathan Louis, 70. On May 23, 1998, scientist, alive in the hearts of the many to whom he generously gave the gift of love and friendship.       
 RETTEW-Daniel A. Died May 27, 1998 after a mercifully brief struggle with AIDS. Beloved son of Roslyn, brother of Amyjane and Thomas Mark & uncle of Nicholas, Thomas, Eleanor and Devon. Dan will be greatly missed by his family, friends and former colleagues from DANY and from the USVI. Serv
 SCHWARTZ-Walter. On May 29, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Miriam. Devoted father of Judy and husband Mel Stern and the late Leonard. Cherished grandfather of Lauren and husband Ken Adelson, and David Stern. Loving great-grandfather of Richard and Michael Adelson. A truly special man. He
 SINATRA-Francis Albert, Ph.D.; '85 Hon. D. Eng; Stevens Institute of Technology. On this Stevens Alumni weekend, alumni mourn the recent death of Frank, our fellow alumnus, and are thankful for his good works for Stevens. Guys of '53       
 WERNER-Steven. 1898-1998. Died on May 30. Mourned by his beloved wife Klara, children Dr. Andrew Werner and Elaine and granddaughter Andrea. Born in Budapest, Hungary. A man of outstanding intellect who excelled in his profession of mechanical engineering. Came to this country in 1956, duri
 LUBALIN-Herb. 1918-1981. As long as there are words and pictures his life, his wit, his work exists, though his presence is deeply missed. Rhoda Sparber Lubalin       
 Vice Adm. Arthur Robert Gralla, a veteran of three wars whose combat ribbons told of two crippled warships with some 5,500 sailors and airmen snatched from danger in the Pacific, died on May 22 at the Arleigh Burke Pavilion in McLean, Va. He was 85 and, most recently, a resident of Arlingto
