 Ed McCurdy, a singer and songwriter who was a leading folk music figure in the 1950's, died on March 23. He was 81 and lived in Halifax, Nova Scotia. At the height of the Depression, Mr. McCurdy left his family farm in Willow Hill, Pa., at 18 to become a gospel singer in Manhattan. 
 Dr. Gary Allan Polis, a zoologist, an ecologist and one of the world's foremost experts on the dreaded scorpion, drowned on Monday in a boat accident off Mexico in the Sea of Cortez. He was 53 and lived in Davis, Calif. Dr. Polis was one of four researchers who died when their 22-fo
 Donald Townsend, who founded the Tad's Steakhouse chain in 1957 on the theory that a T-bone, baked potato, garlic bread and a tossed salad could be profitably sold for $1.09, died March 25 in a Reno hospital. He was 91. Little matter that the meat might be cardboard thin, with clump
 Kenneth N. French, an actor who performed with many dance companies, died March 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said Joyce Herring, a friend and colleague. Born in Albion, Okla., Mr. French came to New York in the mid-1950's but continued to per
 BAIRD-Warren W. Of Burlington, CT, a teacher and administrator at Kingswood-Oxford School in West Hartford, CT, for 33 years, died Thursday, March 30, at Hartford Hospital after a long illness. He was 59 years old. He joined the Kingswood-Oxford faculty as an English teacher in 1967 and ser
 CARLSON-Sten Helge, 67, of Wellfleet, MA on March 23. He was educated at Choate, Yale, Columbia, and the Army Language School in Monterey, CA. A commercial fisherman, he worked the Grand Banks and the South Carolina coast and consulted to fisheries in Haiti and Africa. He leaves his wife, J
 de CLAIRVILLE-Raymond. Resident of Manasota Key, Englewood, FL and former resident of Lloyd Harbor, Huntington, New York, died peacefully at home at age 86. Beloved husband of Gwendolyn Gwynne de Clairville for 64 years, father of Wendy Kemper of New York City, Clauie Lauren of Sarasota, FL
 DOZIER-Robert I. On March 31, 2000 at age 77, after a short unexpected illness. A fine artist, a truly gentle man as well as gentleman. His warmth, wit and even his idiosyncracies will be sorely missed by his many friends.       
 ELSON-Charles. Husband of the late Diana, father of Alexandra and brother of surviving siblings Alex Elson and Elizabeth Cohen, died in Armonk on March 30th at the age of 90. A distinguished international stage and lighting designer, educator and civic leader, he will be greatly missed by a
 KATZ-Eugene. On March 28th. Beloved husband of Zeborah Schachtel and the late Florine Klingenstein. Mourned by children Barbara Eisold, Daniel and John Katz, 7 grand and 5 great grandchildren. A pioneer at Katz Communications and past Chairman of the Board at Planned Parenthood, NY. We will
 KIRSCHENBAUM-M.A. (Jimmy). Member of the NYSE; March 28, 2000. Beloved husband of Barbara & the late Blossom. Loving father of Kathy Leigh and the late Karen Lynn. Devoted brother of Joseph M.K. and his wife Cynthia. Funeral private.       
 LEVY-Arthur. We deeply mourn the passing of our devoted and dear husband and father. He will be deeply mourned and always remembered by his wife, Madeline (Hermele), for fifty years, his daughter, Jaynee, who made him so proud and by his extended family and friends. Services were held.     
 LIPMAN-Samuel. Our hearts are full of sorrow upon the sudden passing of our beloved Sandy, a friend to Richard, David and Bonnie for over 50 years, and to the rest of us for all our lives, his love, wit and charm will be sorely missed. The Maidman Family LIPMAN-Samuel (Sandy). My he
 MOOMJY-George S. On March 31, 2000 of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband of Angele. Dear uncle of many nieces, nephews, and grand nieces and nephews. In repose The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset on Monday 3:00-5:00 and 7:009:00 P.M. Funeral service at Church of Our Sa
 MOORE-Stratford E. At age 38. Beloved son of Dolorita and James J. Moore, brother of James and Edmund and brother-in-law of Margaret. Died March 30 in his family's home in Hampton Bays, NY, from a sudden heart attack. Stratford, a kind, gentle and loving person, will be missed by his uncles
 ROSENBERG-Rabbi Yaakov G. Died March 30, 2000 in Jerusalem. Beloved husband of Bernice (Beare) and the late Dvorah (Bloshstein). Devoted father of Peninah (Gary) Weiner and Shirah (Rabbi Shawn) Zell, loving Saba to Adin, Zichri, Chayuta, Chisdei, Leora and Zeke Weiner and Hadassah and Ariel
 SILFEN-Herman (Hy). 80. On March 30 after a long and courageous battle. Beloved husband of Rhoda and the late Esther. Devoted father of David and Lyn, Susan, Ellen and Buzz Margolin. Cherished grandfather of Adam, Jane, Sam and Emma. Loving brother of Bill, Marilyn, Norman and Helen. You wi
 SMITH-Theodore. March 27, 2000. Of Sarasota, FL. Graduate of Rutgers University, member of football and lacrosse teams. Served as a WWII lieutenant in the company that built the Burma Road. Owner and President of P. Feldman & Sons Scrap Metal Business. A summer resident of East Hampton, NY,
 URIBE-Charles. On March 31, 2000 at age 63 peacefully after a long and courageous battle. Cherished father of Lauren and Ali. Beloved companion to Myriam and husband to Eileen. He will be missed by his family, friends, associates and all whose lives he so profoundly touched. Friends may cal
 Gregory B. Shuker, a documentary filmmaker and pioneer in the techniques of cinema verite, died on Wednesday at the Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 67 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Nancy Shuker, his former wife. Mr. Shuker was among the first
 Hans Gustav Guterbock, a retired University of Chicago professor who was one of the world's foremost scholars of the languages of the ancient Middle East, died on Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 91. Dr. Guterbock was the university's Tiffany and Margaret Blake distinguished
 Harwell Webb Proffitt, a retired executive of the Proffitt's Department Store chain, which became Saks Inc. after it bought Saks Fifth Avenue, died on March 24 at his home in Maryville, Tenn. He was 82. Mr. Proffitt, whose father, D. W. Proffitt, opened his first store in Maryville 
 COLLINS-Lawrence. Formerly of Astoria, Queens. Entered into rest on March 31, 2000. Survived by his wife Lorna Gaglia Collins, his mother Mary Collins, one son, one daughter, two brothers, one sister. Memorial donations may be made to Collins Children's Fund, c/o Mrs. Linda Kelly, 227 Summi
 DREW-William T. Of Port Washington, L.I., died on February 29, 2000 after a five year residency at Ozanam Hall Nursing Home. His career spanned the Broadway Theater to niteclubs and TV. After retiring as a dancer, he continued as an entertainer and cruise director aboard several of the larg
 ENGLISH-Paul Ward. Professor and former chairman of the Geography Department at the University of Texas, died on March 30 in Austin at age 64. He first joined the UT faculty in 1963 and over the years served the University in several capacities. From 1973 to 1979 he was Director of the dist
 KOMARIN-Leo. Beloved husband of Franci. Loving father of Gary and the late Peter. Beloved brother of the late Paula Trost and Regina Salzberg. Loving father-inlaw of Sharon. Adoring grandfather of Jenna, Zoe and Wyatt. I read of a man who stood to speak at the funeral of his friend. He refe
 MOORE-Stratford E. At age 38. Beloved son of Dolorita and James J. Moore, brother of James and Edmund and brother-in-law of Margaret. Died March 30 in his family's home in Hampton Bays, NY, from a sudden heart attack. Stratford, a kind, gentle and loving person, will be missed by his uncles
 RAPAPORT-Arthur. Passed away April 1, 2000. Surived by his children Susan Klein and Matthew Rapaport. Services are private.       
 SCHORR-Rabbi Israel. On March 31. Beloved father of his daughter Gail and son-in-law Dr. Lawrence Horowitz. He was the revered rabbi of Congregation Beth El-Young Israel of Boro Park for 60 years and past president of Hapoel Hamizrachi. A rabbinic scholar with an insatiable love of learning
 SILFEN-Herman. The Board of Trustees, staff, and consumers of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities are deeply saddened by the passing of Hy Silfen. Hy was a longtime advocate for people with developmental disabilities, an active and committed YAI board member, an extraordinar
 URIBE-Charles. On March 31, 2000 at age 63 peacefully after a long and courageous battle. Cherished father of Lauren and Ali. Beloved companion to Myriam and husband to Eileen. He will be missed by his family, friends, associates and all whose lives he so profoundly touched. Friends may cal
 WEAVER-William B. Age 49. On March 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Beth, loving father of Courtney and Charlotte, devoted son of Leonard and Dorothy Weaver, loving brother of Steven and David. Bill graduated from Duke University and received his MBA and J.D. degrees from Northwestern Universit
 GREENHAUS-Edwin. Died July 20, 1999. He was born on April 3, 1932. Most of the time you could find my brother sitting in front of his store. This store was his temple. He lived in it and he died in it. His life was his prayer. My mother and I miss him more and more every day. We choose to r
 Wayne McAllister, a West Coast architect who some critics say elevated commercial structures like the drive-in restaurant and the theme resort to art forms, died on March 22 in Arcadia, Calif. He was 92. Mr. McAllister injured his head in a fall on March 3 near his home in Pasadena 
 Charles Elson, a prolific designer who devised the sets and lighting for  scores of productions on Broadway and in London, died on Thursday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 90. A graduate of the Yale School of Drama, Mr. Elson received his first Broadway credit in July 1945 with a
 Charles Fastov, the first director of probation for New York City, died on March 25 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 90. He was appointed director of probation by Mayor Abraham Beame in 1974 and served until 1976, when he retired. Before 1974, Mr. Fastov was a chi
 Dr. Joe Webb Peoples, a geologist who was key in creating Dinosaur State Park in Rocky Hill, Conn., died on March 21 at a hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 92 and lived in Chester, Conn. Dr. Peoples was head of both the geology department of Wesleyan University in Middletown, Con
 John Robert Starr, who as managing editor of a Little Rock, Ark., newspaper led it to circulation victory over its once overpowering rival -- partly through the force of his 365-days-a-year column -- died of a heart attack just outside Del Norte, Colo., on Saturday. He was 72. Mr. S
 Dr. Milton Brutten, a clinical psychologist and an early leader in the field of special education who also collected contemporary art, died on March 16 at an assisted-living center in Devon, Pa. He was 77 and lived in Philadelphia. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his
 BARKIN-Solomon. Devoted husband and loving father, died at his home in Leverett, MA. on March 29 at age 92. His long productive life affected and improved the lives of many people. His dedication to the labor movement spanned 25 years as economist for the Textile Workers Union of America, n
 BROWER-Prentice Willetts, died on Saturday, April 1st at his home on Hilton Head Island. Mr. Brower was born in Roslyn, NY on April 23, 1914 to Marion Willetts Brower and Ernest Cuyler Brower. For the past 18 years he has resided with his wife, Mary Francis Brower in the Hilton Head area. H
 CIAMBRA-Joseph J., 64, of North Bergen, NJ, died Saturday, April 1. Ajeweler for 45 years. Surviving is his wife, Myriam, & four children, Cathleen, Joseph W., Jon-Paul, Justin. Also surviving are his brother, Frank, and sisters, Marietta Micalizzi, Stella Napoli and Calliope Golom. Visitat
 HOLTON-James T. Died at The Manor in Freehold. He was 76. He is survived by a daughter Lisa Holton & her husband Marc Gibbel of Brooklyn, NY, his former wife Felicia Antonelli Holton of Lawrenceville, NJ, 2 sisters Kathleen H. Buist of Jackson, NJ and Eileen ''Bonnie'' Semple of Metchen, NJ
 MECCA-Anthony S. With profound sorrow, the faculty, students, staff, and alumni of the New York University College of Dentistry record the passing or our beloved Professor, mentor, benefactor, and colleague, Dr. Anthony S. Mecca. A man of rare devotion to family, alma mater, community, and 
 MELTZER - Joseph. Having reached his 97th year, with his beloved wife Bea by his side for 71 years, he died peacefully in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Adored father of Natalie (Donald) Handelman of Purchase, NY, and Robert (Betty) Meltzer of Palo Alto, CA. Loving grandchildren are James (Susan) Han
 NEWMARK-Samuel. Of New City, N.Y. died Monday, Apr 3, 2000 at the age of 92. He is survived by his wife Eva and his daughters Harriet Lieman and Fran Levy and six grandchildren and eight great grandchildren. Funeral services today at 1pm at Hellman Memorial Chapels, 914-356-8600.       
 ROSENSWEIG - Benedict. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our member, Benedict Rosensweig. We express profound condolences to his wife Hilda Rosensweig, his children, grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan
 RUCKEL-Ed. A kind, warm and generous friend. His smile & love for life will be sorely missed. Forever in our hearts. Judy, Amy, Rachel and Marty       
 SABRIN-George J., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D. Secretary Willi
 SCHORR-Israel, Rabbi. His life and actions embodied the best of Torah scholarship. His enormous knowledge of culture, art and science matched his breathtaking erudition in Jewish law and lore. His personal dignity, respect for all people and unabashed love of the land and people of Israel a
 TRESTYN-Philip, CPA. On April 3, 2000. Devoted husband of Mildred, adored father of Alan, Beverly and Cary. Father-in-law of Susan, Mark & Margaret. Loved by sister Fay Huebsch. Beloved grandfather of Jonathan, Kira, Erica, Brandon and Alex. Will be sorely missed by all who knew him, for hi
 WYKER-Joseph. On April 2, 2000. Beloved husband of Lynn. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, grand nieces and grand nephews. Mr. Wyker was cited for bravery and saving many lives during the landing at Normandy. He will be sorely missed by all. Services at Ferncliff Mausoleum, Ardsley, NY
 Bertram M. Beck, a longtime leader in social work and for 10 years the head of the Henry Street Settlement in New York City, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 82, lived on Roosevelt Island and had a vacation home on Fire Island. The cause was
 Byron Goldman, a garment industry executive who was better known as a theatrical producer, died last Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said a friend, Sidney Kraines. Most recently Mr. Goldman was a co-producer of the Broadway production of ''C
 ALTMAN-Robert. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife, Arline and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Sr Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd Paul S. Schreiber, President       
 BARKIN-Solomon. Devoted husband and loving father, died at his home in Leverett, MA. on March 29 at age 92. His long productive life affected and improved the lives of many people. His dedication to the labor movement spanned 25 years as economist for the Textile Workers Union of America, n
 BECK-Bertram M. Deeply beloved husband of Deborah, father of Rachel, and Melissa Beck, and father-in-law to Andrew Less, died at peace on Monday April 3, 2000 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital where he was being treated for mesothelioma. He is also survived by his sisters, Ruth Korn, & A
 EBIN-Dr. Judah Lionel, age 86. In Atlanta, Georgia on April 3rd. Columbia University alumnus (BA, MD, Ph.D.); noted neurosurgeon, medical researcher and tennis enthusiast-the senior yearbook at New Utrecht High, in the subscript to his photo, had it right: ''Scholar, Athlete and Gentleman''
 FINLEY-Larry. April 3, at age 86. Broadcasting pioneer, TV/radio personality and Founder of the International Recording Media Association. He is survived by his wife of 40 years, Betty, five sons and twelve grandchildren. A private family funeral was held. No memorial services are planned. 
 FRIEDMAN-Arthur S. of Harrison, New York on April 3, 2000 at age 58. Devoted husband of Helaine (nee Consor) and beloved father and best friend of David Eliot, son of Oscar, adored son-in-law of Mollie Consor. Brother & brotherin-law of Harvey & Yvette Consor and Steven and Ann Friedman. Lo
 FROMKIN-Lawrence S. Of Woodcliff Lake, NJ, died April 3, 2000 at age 63 following a long illness. Survived by wife, Natalie, son, Kenneth, daughter-in-law, Beth, and sister, Dolores Harris. He was a Vice President of investments for Solomon Smith Barney. A 1959 graduate of Rutgers College o
 GOLDWATER - Berton. NCJW, New York section, mourns the loss of Berton Goldwater, beloved husband of our esteemed Board Member, Judith. Sincerest sympathy to his loving family. Jean Krosner, Pres. Helen Caplin Heller, Exec. Dir.       
 GREENBERG-Julian, M.D. The entire Franklin Hospital Medical Center Family mourns the passing of Dr. Julian Greenberg, Associate Director of the Internal Medicine Department, esteemed member of our Board of Trustees and a distinguished member of Franklin's medical staff since 1964. We convey
 HURFORD-John B. We deeply mourn the death of our friend and colleague, John Hurford. A business leader with a strong sense of public responsibility, John was an active and dedicated member of the Board of the National Endowment for Democracy. We express our profound sympathy to his family. 
 KATZ-Eugene. The Board, Council, and staff of Planned Parenthood of New York City (PPNYC) mourn the death of Eugene Katz, a member of our Board of Directors for 26 years. Gene began his work with PPNYC as a volunteer phone counselor in 1972. He went on to serve as Chair of the International
 KAULA-William. Professor William M. Kaula, passed away April 1, 2000 from complications of cancer. He was born 1926 in Sydney to Edna Mason, an Australian of British descent, and Edgar (Ed) Kaula, an American of Czech descent. He graduated from West Point Military Academy in 1948. In additi
 KLEIN-William S. and Rose L. Of Delray Beach, Florida, died suddenly on April 1, 2000. Beloved and cherished parents of Dr. Arthur Klein, and the late Marsha Klein Lester. Devoted grandparents of Elizabeth and Dawn Lester. Adored siblings of Sylvia Zimmerli and Henry Greenberg, and the late
 MUNDHEIM-Marshall A., M.D. 63, of New York City. Passed away peacefully on April 3, 2000 at his residence. Beloved husband of Ingegerd and cherished father of Marie-Elizabeth. He served on the faculty of NYU Medical Center from 1967 to the present in the Department of Rheumatology. In addit
 SILVER-Seymour D., DDS. Loving husband of Bella. Dear father of Norman, Larry, Barbara and Marcia. Forever in our hearts. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island, at 10:30AM today. SILVER-Seymour. The Yeshiva of South Shore, sadly records the passing of
 Robert J. Casey, a prominent tax lawyer in New York and Washington, died on Friday at a nursing home in Washington. He was 81. Mr. Casey was a partner in several law firms: Finley, Kumble, Underberg, Wagner & Casey in New York; Shea, Gould, Climenko & Casey in New York, now known as
 Sir Robert Sainsbury, patron of the arts and a son of the dynasty that turned a collection of grocery stores into one of Britain's biggest supermarket chains, died on Sunday, the company said. He was 93. His lifetime spanned an innovative and troubled century, whose changes in taste
 William R. Hamilton, a Democratic political consultant and pollster who worked in more than 400 election campaigns, including four for president, died on Saturday at a hospital in Fernandina Beach, Fla. He was 61 and lived on nearby Amelia Island. The cause was lung cancer, said Dav
 Martin Fried, a theater director who was for many years a close associate of Lee Strasberg at the Actors Studio, died on March 28 at his home in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was an aneurysm, said Lena Tabori, his former wife. During his diverse career, Mr. Fried worked on
 BECK-Bertram M. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., notes with sadness the passing of Bertram M. Beck, Chairman of The Board of Trustees of The Betances Health Unit. His dedication to community health care on the East Side wi
 DOOB - Leonard W. Sterling Professor Emeritus of the Department of Psychology at Yale University died peacefully at the age of 91 on March 30, 2000. He joined the Yale faculty in 1934 after receiving his Ph.D from Harvard. He was at Yale thereafter, except during World War II when he was wi
 DRILLMAN-Rabbi Solomon E. Glenwood Jewish Center-Brooklyn, and Ramat Modiim-Israel record with deep sorrow, the passing of our beloved Rabbi, Teacher, & friend. He served our community for over 37 years, and left is imprint on hundreds of families. We extend our condolences to his wife, chi
 FEELY-Robert M. Of New York City and Cornwall, CT. Died April 3, 2000. He is survived by his loving family, wife Margot, daughter Erin Feely-Nahem, stepsons Thomas and Douglas Biow, seven grandchildren and his brother Capt. W. Fergus Feely and his family. Memorial service will be held at 3P
 FRIEDMAN-Arthur S. of Harrison, New York on April 3, 2000 at age 58. Devoted husband of Helaine (nee Consor) and beloved father and best friend of David Eliot, son of Oscar, adored son-in-law of Mollie Consor. Brother & brotherin-law of Harvey & Yvette Consor and Steven and Ann Friedman. Lo
 GAGE-Robert. Devoted husband of the late Fay Gage and father of Tom and the late Tim and Andy. Father-in-law of Michelle and grandfather of Zack. Beloved brother of Gerry Ash and uncle of Jeff and Steve. Died on April 4 at the age of 78. A graveside service will be held Friday at the Pound 
 HILBERT-Thomas Jr. in Fairfield, CT., April 4, 2000. Age 85, husband of the late Jane Bracken Hilbert, retired Chief Labor and Employment Law Counsel for the General Electric Co. A Trustee of the College of Mt. St. Vincent, and a member of the Board of Directors of Calvary Hospital. Father 
 HURFORD-John B. On April 3, 2000, beloved husband of Hilge Drueke. Devoted father of Jennifer, loving nephew of Jessica Simon. He was a prominent philanthopist and international investment adviser. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street Sunday April 9th, 
 KUPERSTEIN-Howard. Passed away in Las Vegas after a lengthy illness on April 3rd. A New York contractor for many years, he is survived by his wife Pat, sons Brad of Los Angeles, Ken of San Francisco, Gregg of Toronto; a daughter Sari Feldman of NYC and three grandchildren.       
 MUNDHEIM-Marshall, MD. The Trustees, faculty and staff of New York University School of Medicine are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved colleaque and friend, Dr. Marshall Mundheim, Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine. Marshall, a long time member of the NYU family, completed
 PRICE-William. On April 3rd, at age 95, in Miami Beach. Beloved husband of the late Harriet Price. Loving father of Isabel (Fred) Schornstein. Devoted grandfather of Edward (Michelle), and Hilary. Great-grandfather of Jolie. He will be greatly missed.       
 SCHNEIDER-Harold. On April 5, 2000. Longtime corporate attorney with Tenzer & Greenblatt LLP. Beloved husband of Sandra. Adored son of Florence. Devoted father of Douglas and Mara. Service is on Friday, 11:30 AM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue, corner of 91st Street. SC
 LURIE-Arnold David. A memorial service will take place on Sunday, April 16, 2000 at 2 PM at Teeters' Funeral Home in Hawley, PA for Dr. Arnold David Lurie, of Lake Ariel, PA, formerly of Baldwin, NY, who died April 5, 2000. His wife, Kay Elizabeth Nord Lurie, survives. In lieu of flowers th
 The Rev. Robert Ross Johnson, a leading clergyman in Queens for nearly four decades and a former chaplain for the New York City Department of Correction, died on March 29 at a hospital in Atlanta. He was 79 and had moved to Atlanta in 1991. He suffered a long illness, his family sai
 Solomon Barkin, a retired labor economist and professor emeritus at the University of Massachusetts who wrote prodigiously about working people, died on March 29 at his home in Leverett, Mass. He was 92. Professor Barkin spent 25 years in the labor movement, from 1937 to 1963, as di
 Tommaso Buscetta, the first important Italian mob leader to break the Mafia oath of silence and whose testimony helped convict hundreds of Mafia leaders in Italy and the United States, died of cancer on Sunday, his Italian lawyer, Luigi Liggotti, said. He was 71 and lived at an undisclosed 
 Habib Bourguiba, who was president of Tunisia from 1957 to 1987 after leading the country to independence from France, died yesterday. He was 96 years old and lived in Monastir in eastern Tunisia. Mr. Bourguiba was a spectacularly durable Arab leader. He was also relatively moderate
 Lee Petty, a champion stock car racer in the 1950's who was the father of the sport's greatest driver, Richard Petty, died Wednesday in Moses Cone Hospital in Greensboro, N.C. Petty, who was 86, had been hospitalized for several weeks after surgery for a stomach aneurysm. Lee Petty 
 BECK-Bertram. The Board and Staff of Nontraditional Employment for Women (NEW) extends condolences to Deborah and the Beck family. As a former NEW Board Member, Bert lived his social activism by helping women enter the skilled trades. We are all grateful for his living legacy. Martha Baker,
 BOTTS-John C. of St. Petersburg, FL and formerly of Bronxville, NY, on March 26, 2000. Husband of Priscilla F. Botts for 60 years, and father of John, Ted, and Priscilla Ditchfield. Grandfather of six and great-grandfather of one. John spent thirty years in New York City as advertising and 
 CARPENTER-Kevin. February 18, 2000. Suddenly at Seatowers, Madeira Beach, FL. Beloved son of Elizabeth. Devoted husband to Valerie. Kevin was a linguist, a teacher & a writer, with two Master's from NYU where he was a Ford Fellow and a research assistant to the Director of the Center for In
 CLARK-John L. On April 5, 2000. Loving husband of Ethel. Devoted father of John, Eugene, Donna, Maureen and Cathy. Loving grandfather of Claire and Ryan. Beloved brother of Monsignor Eugene V. Clark. Reposing at the Martin A. Gleason Funeral Home, 10-25 150 Street, Whitestone, NY, Friday 2-
 del CASTILLO-Rafael C. III, age 80, of Bayport, LI, on April 6, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Anne (nee Carroll). Dear father of Suzanne Kolakowski, Rafael C., IV, Carroll Anne Tantillo and Kathryn Anne del Castillo. Fond brother of Juan del Castillo and Dolores Clarke. Loving grandfath
 FEELY-Robert M. Of New York City and Cornwall, CT. Died April 3, 2000. He is survived by his loving family, wife Margot, daughter Erin Feely-Nahem, stepsons Thomas and Douglas Biow, seven grandchildren and his brother Capt. W. Fergus Feely and his family. Memorial service will be held at 3P
 GOLDBERG-Jerry M. The Pace University community records with sorrow the untimely passing of our alumnus, colleague and friend, Jerry M. Goldberg, Professor and Chair of Speech Communication Studies and member and advisor of Pace's debate coaching staff. Sincere condolences are extended to h
 GOODMAN-Irving. The Board of Governors and members of Tam O'Shanter Club are saddened by the passing of their member Irving Goodman. Our sincere condolences are extended to his wife, Arline, his son Mark and the family. Frank Jacobson, President Arthur Kaufman, Secretary       
 GRANT-Francis C., beloved husband of Penelope Grenville, died at age 86 in Salisbury, Connecticut. Loved by his family, friends and community, and remembered as a fair and honest labor negotiator for United States Lines Co. in the ports of New York and Baltimore, Frank will be missed.      
 HURFORD-John B. The Board of Directors and staff of Southampton Hospital mourn the passing of John B. Hurford. We acknowledge with gratitude his dedication and generosity to the hospital where he served on the Board since June, 1993, and as Chairman of the Southampton Hospital Foundation. O
 IGOE-John E. The officers and members of Elmwood Country Club mourn the passing of their esteemed member, John E. Igoe, devoted husband to Ruth; beloved father to Cathy, Cindy, Nancy, Jeffrey and John; and stepfather to Janet, Susan, Lynn and Diane; and close friend of many members. We will
 JONES-Rev. Robert C. C.Ss.R, born December 24, 1952, age 47, died peacefully in the presence of his family on April 6, 2000. Member of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer. Presently Associate Pastor of Saint Ursula Church, Parkville, MD. Arch Diocese of Baltimore and Chaplain of Notr
 KATZ-Stanley. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Mr. Stanley Katz. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Bernard Karasic, President Charles Weissman, Secretary       
 KLEIN-William and Rose. The Board of Trustees, medical staff and administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery note with sorrow the sudden death of Mr. and Mrs. William Klein, parents of Arthur Klein, M.D., Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice-President of the New York Presbyterian 
 LURIE-Arnold, M.D., A treasure of a man, wise, loving and caring. He will be missed by many. Esther, Kyver, Carol, Erwin Ellie, and extended families       
 MUNDHEIM-Marshall A., M.D. Words cannot express my sadness at the death of Dr. Mundheim. He saved my life 33 years ago, and made it worth living ever since. His oldest and most grateful patient, Kathy Dobkin.       
 PIERCY-George T. The Board of Trustees, medical staff and administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend, George Piercy. Throughout his illustrious career at Exxon, from where Mr. Piercy retired as a Senior Vice-President and Exxon Boa
 SCHNEIDER-Harold. On April 5, 2000. Current partner with Kirkpatrick & Lockhart, LLP and longtime corporate attorney with Tenzer & Greenblatt LLP. Beloved husband of Sandra. Adored son of Florence. Devoted father of Douglas and Mara. Service is on Friday, 11:30 AM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 63
 SWAN-William Hamilton, of Quogue, N.Y. on April 6, at Southampton, N.Y. Survived by his devoted daughter Carolyn Parlato and by his loving granddaughters, Laura, Kate and Anne Parlato all of Mamaroneck, N.Y. Also survived by his sister, Julia Jenks of Tucson, AZ. His family will receive fri
 WEISSBURG-Martin. The Cooper Union Alumni Association mourns the death of distinguished Cooper Union alumnus, Martin Weissburg, Electrical Engineering 1929, and President of the Alumni Association 1964-1965. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Mildred. An active and devoted Cooper a
 Arthur C. Ruge, who invented a fingernail-sized gauge that helped the United States win World War II and revolutionized the way things are weighed and tested for stress, died Monday at his home in Lexington, Mass., according to his daughter, Claire Bertucci. He was 94. Mr. Ruge (pro
 Carl L. Sitter, a former colonel in the United States Marines who won the Medal of Honor for bravery and valiant leadership during 36 hours of hellish hand-to-hand fighting in Korea, died on April 4 at a hospital in Richmond, Va. He was 77. Colonel Sitter's gallantry at the risk of 
 George T. Piercy, a former senior vice president of Exxon Corporation who, in the 1980's, was chairman of the Educational Broadcasting Corporation of New York, now known as Channel 13/WNET, died March 30 at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. He was 84. He had been in declining heal
 BROWN-James M., M.D. A loving husband, caring father, grandfather & great grandfather. A compassionate physician. He will be missed by many.       
 ERICSSON-Gary John. Died Thursday April 6 at the Mount Sinai Hosp., NYC. Mr. Ericsson was born in New York City and was 48 years of age. He lived in Queens, moving to East Brunswick 12 years ago. He was employed by N.Y. Times since 1980 and A.N. M.D.U member for thirty years. Surviving are 
 FEELY-Robert M. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 1220 Park Avenue Corp., mourn the loss of their fellow Director and neighbor. A member of the Board for over 30 years and having served as President, his wise counsel will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. 
 HARDART-Frank, Jr., M.D. Of Bronxville, NY. 0n April 6th, 2000. Beloved husband of Frances (nee O'Connor). Devoted father of Frank, George, Richard, Tracie, Christopher & Michael. Delighted father-in-law of Karen and Katie. Proud grandfather of Kent Francis. Loving brother of Evelyn Hardart
 JONES-Rev. Robert C. C.Ss.R, born December 24, 1952, age 47, died peacefully in the presence of his family on April 6, 2000. Member of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer. Presently Associate Pastor of Saint Ursula Church, Parkville, MD. Arch Diocese of Baltimore and Chaplain of Notr
 KLEIN-William and Rose. Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons extends deepest sympathy to our esteemed colleague and friend, Arthur Klein, M.D. on the untimely passing of his beloved parents William and Rose. Our heartfelt sympathies and thoughts are with Arthur and his fam
 KORNBLUM-Dr. Robert. Age 63, of Mendham, N.J. On April 6, 2000. Husband of Dr. Hana Kornblum. Father of Rebecca, Jennifer and Tamar Kornblum. His is also survived by a brother and sister-inlaw, Dr. Sylvan and Elizabeth Humes Kornblum. Funeral service Monday, April 10, 12 Noon, Bailey Funera
 MARCUS-Ben. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Board Member Joel Marcus on the recent passing of his beloved father, the founder and first President of the Sephardic Jewish Center of Canarsie. May the entire family be comfort
 MUFSON-Bernard. On April 4, 2000 in his 81st year. Loving son of the late David and Etti. Dear brother of Sol and the late Florence and Stanley. Cherished uncle of Rita, Jay, Laura, Judy and grand-uncle of David and Jonathan, Josh, Lisa and Natalie. Friend of Wolfgang Otto. Services were he
 SCHNEIDER-Harold L. Harold Schneider's colleagues in the practice of law at the firm Kirkpatrick & Lockhart LLP mourn the untimely passing of our partner and friend. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Kirkpatrick & Lockhart       
 WEISSBURG - Martin. Beloved husband of Mildred. Died April 6, 2000, 95 years old. Graduated from the Cooper Union School. Received MS from NYU. Besides his wife Mildred, he had a very caring family, including his wife's children, grandchildren and great grandchildren, as well as many nieces
 Robert Gage, an influential art director with the DDB Worldwide advertising agency and a director of well-known television ads, died Tuesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. The cause was a staphylococcus infection, said his son, Tom. Mr. 
 Enrique Espinoza, an artist who with Loretta Hines Howard created elaborate Christmas trees displayed annually at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the White House, died March 21 at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. A resident of Manhattan, he was 87. Mr. Espinoza began his associa
 BARALL-Michael R. Of Sharon, CT, on April 2, 2000, at age 48. Devoted husband of Deborah Gold Barall. Beloved father of Jason, Matthew, Bryan and Kyle. Cherished son of Margaret and Irving. Loving brother of Scott. We will miss his warmth, humor and wisdom.       
 BENOV-Robert E. Died peacefully on April 8, 2000. An incredible man. He will be greatly missed by his loving wife Elaine, sons Craig & Reid, daughters Alexa & Yukari, grandchildren Ellie, Jesse & Sasha. His spirit is now at rest with his sons Jonathan & Wayne. Services Monday, 12 noon, ''Gu
 CLAY-William Law Jr., retired attorney, died March 27 at St. Catherine of Siena Medical Center in Smithtown, NY. He was 93. Mr. Clay practiced law for 41 years, and was employed as a corporate attorney for General Electric from 1948 until retiring in 1971. He lived in the Village of Nissequ
 CORDON-James T., Jr. Survived by family, many friends and colleagues at NBC radio and television. He is irreplaceable. Richard Giglio       
 CORLEY-Robert E., 78, of Spring Hill, FL, died Monday, April 3 at his home. Born in Manhattan, NY, he resided in New City, NY then Aberdeen, NJ, prior to moving to Spring Hill, FL 10 years ago. He was a 37 year veteran of IBM and served as a sergeant in the US Army during W.W. II where he r
 DENBER-Herman C., M.D., Ph.D. The staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Herman C. Denber, M.D., Ph.D., Adjunct Professor of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Dr. Denber began 
 ERICSSON-Gary John. Died Thursday, April 6, at the Mount Sinai Hospital, NYC. Mr. Ericsson was born in NYC and was 48 years of age. He lived in Queens, moving to East Brunswick 12 years ago. He was employed by the New York Times since 1980 and was an N.M.D.U. member for 30 years. Surviving 
 FEELY-Robert M. Of New York City and Cornwall, CT. Died April 3, 2000. He is survived by his loving family, wife Margot, daughter Erin Feely-Nahem, stepsons Thomas and Douglas Biow, seven grandchildren and his brother Capt. W. Fergus Feely and his family. Memorial service will be held at 3P
 GRUNZWEIG - Zigmund. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center expresses great sorrow on the passing of Zigmund Grunzweig, beloved father of Milton Grunzweig, MD, esteemed attending in the Department of Medicine. We exten
 HURFORD-John B. On April 3, 2000, beloved husband of Hilge Drueke. Devoted father of Jennifer, loving nephew of Jessica Simon. He was a prominent philanthopist and international investment adviser. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street Sunday April 9th, 
 HURWITZ-Dr. Sidney I. 87, of Forest Hills, NY, on April 6, 2000. Beloved husband of Jean, loving father of Brian and Mark, devoted grandfather of Matthew, Sean, and Lauren. He retired as Chief of the Brooklyn Veteran's Administration Dental Clinic after many long years of dedicated service 
 KLEIN-WILLIAM and ROSE. The Board of Trustees, Administration & Medical Staff of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center note with sorrow the sudden death of Mr. and Mrs. William Klein, parents of Arthur Klein, MD, Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President of the New Yo
 MILLER-Stanley S. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member Stanley S. Miller, and offer their deepest sympathy to his wife Martha, his children and the entire Miller family. Alpine Country Club Harvey Nagin Pr
 MONACCI-Lando E. 96. Resident of Flushing for 76 years. Passed away April 8, 2000. Born February 10, 1904, in NY, NY. Lando graduated from Cooper Union College, NYC, Class of 1928. He was an electrical engineer employed by Consolidated Edison for 45 years retiring in 1969 as a Supervising E
 PERRY-Warren S. On April 7, 2000. Husband of Diane C. (nee Waldman). Father of Andrew (Lennisue) Perry, Todd (Jane) Perry and Samantha Perry. Brother of Melvyn (Gale), Robert (Selma) and Richard (Elaine) Perry. Grandfather of Alexis Rae, Matthew Jacob, Brandon Michael and Tyler Lake. Relati
 RATH-John Stearns. Of Litchfield, CT, died Friday, April 7, 2000, in Litchfield at the age of 82. He is the widower of Joan (Smith) Rath & Toddy (Cook) Rath and is survived by three daughters, Susan Latos, Nancy Rath & Jean Kopp; five grandchildren; one sister, Elizabeth Reagh and former wi
 ROLLINS-John W., Sr. The American Friends of Jamaica mourn the death of one of our Founders, Honorees and Directors who won our respect and admiration for his efforts to improve the quality of life for all Jamaicans. His guidance will be missed. Our condolences to his wife Michele, his chil
 ROLLINS-Martin. Riverdale B'nai Brith mourns the tragic sudden passing of its esteemed Vice President. Marty was a true gentleman and highly valued officer who was deeply committed to our goals. He will be sorely missed. Lou Falkenstein, Pres. Norman Liss, Exec., VP Martin Richmond, VP Arno
 ROSENBERG-Milton L. ''Jimmy''. April 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Joan. Loving father of Peggy Hirschberg and Andie, step-father of Maxwell Davidson and Anne Averbuck and the late Lynn Tyree. Cherished grandfather of Stacy and Amanda Hirschberg, Lindsey and John Gordon, Maxwell IV, William a
 COHEN-Irving S. 5/6/28-4/9/96 Fourth Year in Heaven. May the Lord make His countenance shine upon you, and be gracious unto you forever. We love and miss you. Mary, children, grandchildren       
 Terence McKenna, who so playfully and persistently pressed his message that psychedelic drugs are mankind's salvation that Timothy Leary himself christened him ''the Timothy Leary of the 90's,'' died on Monday at a friend's home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 53 and lived on the South Kona Co
 A. Frank Reel, who was a government-appointed defense counsel in a crucial Japanese war-crimes trial after World War II and later denounced the proceedings as a sham, died in his sleep on Monday night or early Tuesday at his assisted-living home in Norfolk, Va. He was 92 and had lived in Ta
 FOERTMEYER-William Louis of Carmel, Calif., died March 24, 2000 at the age of 79 in Monterey. He graduated from Yale in the Class of '43 and served in the U. S. Army during World War II. He is survived by his brother Ross Lee Foertmeyer (Yale '44).       
 HARDART-Frank, Jr., M.D. Of Bronxville, NY. 0n April 6th, 2000. Beloved husband of Frances (nee O'Connor). Devoted father of Frank, George, Richard, Tracie, Christopher & Michael. Delighted father-in-law of Karen and Katie. Proud grandfather of Kent Francis. Loving brother of Evelyn Hardart
 PIERCY-George T. Piercy died Thursday evening at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida. He was born in Eau Claire, Wisconsin on November 29, 1915, and graduated from the University of Minnesota with a degree in chemical engineering in 1938. On graduation he joined the Exxon Corporation as 
 ROSENBERG-Milton L. ''Jimmy''. April 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Joan. Loving father of Peggy Hirschberg and Andie, step-father of Maxwell Davidson and Anne Averbuck and the late Lynn Tyree. Cherished grandfather of Stacy and Amanda Hirschberg, Lindsey and John Gordon, Maxwell IV, William a
 RUCKEL-Ed. On April 1, 2000. Devoted husband, adoring father, proud father-in-law, euphoric grandfather and priceless brother. His infectious wit and zest for life will never be forgotten.       
 STEINHARDT-Henry. 89, of Washington, NJ. Died at his home on Saturday. Loving husband of the late Helen, father to Lawrence, father-in-law to Wendy and grandfather to Jaime, all of NYC. Private services will be held at the convenience of the family.       
 Sy Weintraub, the film producer who in the 1950's breathed new life into Tarzan's flagging celluloid career, died Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer,  Reuters reported. Under the tutelage of Mr. Weintraub, who bought the r
 BARNITT-Roy F., Jr., actor, businessman and attorney, of NYC, suddenly on Friday, April 7, 2000. Beloved son of the late Roy F., Sr., and Beatrice Ward Barnitt. Dear brother of Richard P. Barnitt. Uncle of Richard, David, Patrick and Christopher, and five grandnieces and nephews. Brother-in
 BARRY-John J. On April 9, 2000. Beloved husband of the Honorable Maryanne Trump Barry. Devoted father of Barbara Coates and stepfather of Dr. David W. Desmond. Cherished grandfather of Laura and Ryan Coates and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81
 BARTHOLOMEW-Robert. Writer, Journalist, Poet, Interior Designer passed away April 5 in NYC. He is survived by his beloved wife, Catherine, son Michael and his wife Veronique, daughters, Susan and Marie Louise and her husband Nicos. Grandchildren, Oliver, Theodora and Simeon. Brothers, Sidne
 CHRISTY-Orrin E. His friends and colleagues at Worldly Things wish to express their deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Orrin E. Christy. He will be remembered affectionately and missed greatly.       
 COHEN-Leonard M. age 72, of Fair Lawn, New Jersey, on April 9, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife Myra nee Epstein, loving father of Susan, Amy and Judy, devoted father-in-law of Douglas and Adam and adored grandfather of Daniel, Jason, Samantha and Jacob. Services are today, 12Noon at Robe
 HARDART-Frank, Jr., M.D. The Sponsors, Executive Staff, Medical Staff and Auxiliary of Saint Vincents Catholic Medical Centers of New York mourn with deep sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague, Frank Hardart. Dr. Hardart served with distinction on the medical staff of Saint Vincents
 HURFORD-John B. The students, staff, faculty and Board of Trustees of Pianofest in the Hamptons mourn the loss of their friend, advisor and benefactor, John B. Hurford. We acknowledge his dedication, generosity, and loving devotion to music and to our organization. We miss him greatly and e
 KAUFMAN-Gerald. Young Israel of Forest Hills mourns the passing of Gerald Kaufman, our beloved founding member, longtime Board member and Officer, Chairman Emeritus of our Youth Committee, and National President of the Young Israel Movement. His leadership and sagacious advice will be misse
 SEWALL-Harold Marsh, 71, of New York and Brunswick, Maine, on April 9. He graduated from Bowdoin College in 1951. Mr. Sewall was a retired investment banker and commercial real estate agent in New York. He served in the Marine Corps and the Army in Korea. Surviving are three sisters, Nancy 
 Reginald Laubin, who performed  dances of American Plains Indians in the 1930's, 40's and 50's, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Urbana, Ill. He was 96 and lived in Urbana and in Moose, Wyo. Neither Mr. Laubin nor his wife, Gladys, with whom he performed, were Indian, but they stu
 William C. Stokoe Jr., an iconoclastic linguistics professor whose championing of sign language helped change the way deaf people are educated around the world, died on April 4 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80. Dr. Stokoe was credited with winning recognition of American Si
 James Marston Fitch, an architect whose writings and teaching helped transform historic preservation from a dilettante's pastime into a vigorous, broadly based cultural movement, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Less interested in where Washington slept than in ho
 Larry Linville, whose comically mendacious character Maj. Frank Burns made other Army doctors' lives miserable for the first five seasons of the long-running television hit ''M*A*S*H,'' died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. 
 ARUNACHALA-Bhakta Bhagawat, founder in 1966 of Arunachala Ashrama, Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi Centers in New York and Nova Scotia passed away on April 10th. He is survived by his son, Bhaskar, daughter-in-law Hena, and four grandchildren, and many hundreds of devotees of Sri Ramana Mahars
 BARRY-John J. On April 9, 2000. Beloved husband of the Honorable Maryanne Trump Barry. Devoted father of Barbara Coates and stepfather of Dr. David W. Desmond. Cherished grandfather of Laura and Ryan Coates and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81
 CUMMINGS-Robert Lincoln, age 87 of Glen Head, New York on April 11, after a long illness. Survived by his beloved wife Marie Powers Maxwell Cummings; by 3 children, Dorcas O. Cochran, Lila Cummings Stoddard, and Robert L. Cummings III, and 7 grandchildren; and by 3 stepchildren. Mr. Cumming
 DONOHUE-Michael F. April 10, 2000. Beloved husband of June Ann. Loving father of Michael, Jessica, Richard, June and Maureen. Cherished grandfather of 12. Devoted brother of Donald, Mary Clark of Maryland and the late Jack and the late Martin. He was the proprietor of Donohue's Steak House 
 LINVILLE-Larry L. on April 10, 2000. Funeral services will be private. Donations in his memory preferred by the family to Sloan Kettering-Memorial Hospital New York City. For further information, Contact John Krtil Funeral HomeYorkville Funeral Service Inc., 212744-3084.       
 SEWALL-Harold Marsh, 71, of New York and Brunswick, Maine, on April 9. He graduated from Bowdoin College in 1951. Mr. Sewall was a retired investment banker and commercial real estate agent in New York. He served in the Marine Corps and the Army in Korea. Surviving are three sisters, Nancy 
 SHUMSKY-Harry. Husband of the late Eleanor, beloved father of Jane Shumsky and Judi Ayal. Adoring grandfather of Ofer and Eran. Dear brother of David Shumsky. Born 1909 in Augustov, Russia. He became a prominent button manufacturer (Harry Shumsky and Brothers), community leader and active i
 LEWIS-Hylan Garnet. Memorial tribute to his life and work will take place Sunday, April 16, 2000 at 2PM at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, 515 Malcolm X Boulevard (135 St and Lenox), NYC. RSVP 212-491-2040       
 Robert W. Komer, a point man in the United States' star-crossed campaign to win hearts and minds in Vietnam, died on Sunday after a stroke. He was 78 and lived in Arlington, Va. During the war and after, Mr. Komer was known as Blowtorch Bob, a name given to him by Henry Cabot Lodge,
 James Vorenberg, a professor and former dean of Harvard Law School who played pivotal roles in watershed legal events including the Watergate investigation, died yesterday at a hospital in Boston. He was 72. The cause was cardiac arrest, his wife, Elizabeth, said. Professor Vorenber
 John B. Hurford, an investment adviser, philanthropist and foreign affairs expert, died on April 3 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, said a colleague, Lynn Barry. Mr. Hurford, who lived in Manhattan, was a managing director of Credit 
 BARRY-John J. On April 9, 2000. Beloved husband of the Honorable Maryanne Trump Barry. Devoted father of Barbara Coates and stepfather of Dr. David W. Desmond. Cherished grandfather of Laura and Ryan Coates and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81
 BILLOWS-Raymond E. Age 85, of Poughkeepsie, New York, on April 10, after a short illness. Beloved husband of Lynn VanBenschoten Billows. Loving father of Raymond, Jr. of LaGrangeville, NY and Barbara Tilles of Rye, NY, 3 stepchildren, 4 grandchildren, Ross and Mark Billows, Scott and Amy Ti
 COTTIN-Jack. On April 11, in his 80th year. Husband of Lillian. Brother-in-law of Evelyn Witkin, uncle of Carol and Joseph, Sharon and Andrew, and great uncle of Brian and Sean, Emily and Anna. Dearly loved and deeply mourned.       
 DONOHUE-Michael F. April 10, 2000. Beloved husband of June Ann. Loving father of Michael, Jessica, Richard, June and Maureen. Cherished grandfather of 12. Devoted brother of Donald, Mary Clark of Maryland and the late Jack and the late Martin. He was the proprietor of Donohue's Steak House 
 FITCH-James Marston. The faculty, staff, students, and alumni of the Historic Preservation Program at the Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning & Preservation wish to express their deepest regret at the death of the founder, leader, and benefactor of the Program, Jam
 FRANKEL-G. David. On April 10, 2000 of Larchmont, NY after a brave fight and lengthy illness. Son of the late George and Elizabeth Frankel. Adored husband of Marla. Beloved father of Beth, Gary and his wife Eve. Devoted stepfather to Pam and Suzanne. Cherished grandfather of Amanda, Katie, 
 KAUFMAN-Gerald L. AMIT mourns the passing of the beloved president of the National Council of Young Israel. His financial expertise was always available to assist AMIT in its mission to save the ''Forgotten Children of Israel.'' May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jer
 LURIE-Jack. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Jack Lurie. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Marjorie; his children, Ed, Ellen and Bill and to his grandchildren. Len Shendell, President Judi
 MANGIARDI-Dr. Joseph Leonard age 82, of Timber Ridge Drive, Cashiers, North Carolina, died Wednesday, April 5th, 2000 in the Highlands-Cashiers Hospital. He was born in Brooklyn NY, the son of the late Dominic and Marie Mangiardi. He was a retired cardiovascular surgeon and a World War II M
 McLAUGHLIN-Michael P., a Darien resident since 1985, died suddenly in New York City on April 11, 2000. He was 49. Born January 12, 1951 in Brighton, MA, he was a son of Mary Driscoll McLaughlin of Marshfield, MA., and the late Gerald F. McLaughlin. Mike was raised in Brighton and graduated 
 SHUMSKY-Harry. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 William M. Kaula, who used early satellites to create the first truly global maps of Earth's shape and structure, died on April 1 at his home in Los Angeles. He was an emeritus professor of geophysics at the University of California at Los Angeles, and was 73. The cause was cancer, 
 Andre Deutsch, a Hungarian emigre who moved to Britain before World War II and parlayed his love of literature into an independent publishing house that bore his name, died on Tuesday at a hospital here. He was 82. Setting up business on a shoestring at a time when publishing was no
 Frank Jewett Mather III, a scientist who developed the first tagging program for large open- ocean fish, died on March 27 in Falmouth, Mass. He was 89. Mr. Mather's passion for fishing lured him from a career as a naval architect into the field of fisheries research. He started work
 Giorgio Bassani, the author of the classic modern novel ''The Garden of the Finzi-Continis,'' died today in the San Camillo hospital in Rome. He was 84. Mr. Bassani's final years were darkened by a bitter dispute between his lawyers and his estranged wife and children, who in 1998 h
 Howard Simon, a playwright whose first major New York production opened on Sunday night, died on Wednesday at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 37 and lived in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. The cause was septic shock brought on by streptococcus meningitis
 BLAIR-Russell. Our dear friend, man of the world and bon vivant, returned to his native Scotland where he died on March 12. Plans for a future memorial service will be announced. Norman Altman, Michael Cannon Christopher Desler       
 DONOHUE-Michael F. April 10, 2000. Beloved husband of June Ann. Loving father of Michael, Jessica, Richard, June and Maureen. Cherished grandfather of 12. Devoted brother of Donald, Mary Clark of Maryland and the late Jack and the late Martin. He was the proprietor of Donohue's Steak House 
 HALPERIN-Benjamin. On April 12th, 2000. Beloved husband of Shirley. Loving father to Daniel, Michael and Michelle. Cherished grandfather of Samuel and Elias. Loving uncle of Jane, Mary and Barbara. Good friend to many. He will be greatly missed.       
 LURIE-Jack. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Ellen and Brian Steklof, Ed and April Lurie, Bill and Susan Lurie. Cherished grandfather of Lisa and Eric Steklof, Elizabeth, Daniel, Jonathan and Korina Lurie. Mr. Lurie was the CEO of the Republic Lens Company in Englewood, New Jer
 NICOLETTI-Robert V. While serving on the USS Sylvania, he received a National Defense Service Medal. He earned a Ph.D. in Economics from NYU. A talented econometric model builder, he recently was the chief economist at the NYC Office of Management and Budget. Viewing at Krtil F. H., 1297 1s
 W. Bruce Lincoln, a historian known for his gripping books about Russians and their history, died on Sunday at Kishwaukee Community Hospital in DeKalb, Ill. He was 61 and lived in DeKalb. He had cancer, Northern Illinois University in DeKalb said in announcing his death. He had taug
 Alan Betrock, whose love of rock 'n' roll led to a pioneering career as a critic, editor, publisher, archivist and record producer, died on Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 49 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was cancer, said Marilyn Laverty, his former wife. 
 Albert Turner, a civil rights leader and adviser to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died on Thursday in Selma, Ala. He was 64. Mr. Turner's heart stopped while he was being prepared for an operation to stop abdominal bleeding, said his brother, Robert. Mr. Turner helped
 Gary Bellow, a Harvard Law School professor who was a pioneer in creating programs to meet the legal needs of the poor, died on Thursday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 64 and lived in Boston. The cause of death was complications from a heart transplant, said Dr. Charles J.
 James Frederick Green, a State Department veteran who was an authority on human rights, died on Monday at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 89. Dr. Green, who had a doctorate in international relations from Yale, spent part of his State Department career, from 1946 to 1954, focu
 Jerry D. Mead, a wine writer who long crusaded against neo-Prohibitionism, died on Wednesday at his home in Carson City, Nev. He was 61. The cause was lymphoma and heart disease, said Edwin J. Schwartz of San Francisco, a friend. Mr. Mead, who described himself as The Wine C
 ADSIT-Willcox Brown, retired Executive Vice President of General Motors Acceptance Corporation (New York), died on Sunday, April 9, at his home in Mountain Lake, Lake Wales, Florida. Mr. Adsit was 90 years old. He was in charge of Borrowings, Overseas Operations and Public Relations. Mr. Ad
 FONTANA-Kathleen. Of New York City and Long Beach, on April 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Charles L. Loving mother of Stephen and his wife Kelly Ann. Devoted grandmother of Sean, Stephen, Craig and Kelsea. Mass of Christian Burial, Saturday 10AM, St. Ignatius Martyr R.C.C., Long Beach.
 FRANKEL-G. David. The Board of Governors and Members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, G. David Frankel, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Paul N. Gardner, President       
 HAUPTMAN-Harry W., 85, of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, died April 13, 2000 in Florida. Survived by his wife, Helen; sons, Cliff & Michael; and three grandchildren.       
 ROSE-Larry. The Hebrew Educational Society, the HES Alumni and Camp HES mourns the passing of Larry Rose, an extraordinary athletic, businessman, banker, community leader and a wonderful husband, father and grandfather and dearest friend. He was a HES member for 75 years, President of HES, 
 VORENBERG-James. The Board of Directors and Staff of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. deeply mourn the loss of our dear and respected colleague James Vorenberg. A brilliant and selfless leader in the cause of civil and human rights, Mr. Vorenberg provided our organization 
 YANKAUER-William P. The Board of Directors and staff of Grand Street Settlement are saddened by the passing of Mr. William P. Yankauer. A dedicated, longtime supporter. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Ann Unterberg, President Margarita Rosa, Exec. Director       
 Edmund Engelman, the clandestine photographer who let the world glimpse the famous couch of Dr. Sigmund Freud (without a consultation fee), died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. Mr. Engelman, a native of Vien
 Edward Gorey, whose eerie black-and-white cross-hatched drawings of hapless children and Victorian ministers charmed and haunted readers, died yesterday in Hyannis, Mass. He was 75. Mr. Gorey, an artist and writer who lived in Yarmouth Port, Mass., suffered a heart attack on Wednesd
 Dr. Edward B. C. Keefer, a surgeon who set up the first transplant bank for human blood vessels and was the first to fit a horse with an artificial leg, died on April 3 at his home in Brookville, N.Y. He was 84. In the 1950's, establishing a forerunner of today's organ banks, Dr. Ke
 Gerald Garvey, who wrote extensively on the inner workings of government as a professor of politics at Princeton University, died on April 9 at Princeton Medical Center. He was 64 and lived in Princeton. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Garvey focused on American p
 ARMAND-John Francis. Of Highland Lake, NY and North Bergen, NJ passed away peacefully on Thursday, April 13, 2000. Dear husband of the late Regina Margaret (Lynch) Armand. He will be sadly missed by his daughters JeanneMarie Maiale and Patricia Ann Armand Schmidt, his sons-in-law Nicholas M
 BUSSING-Warren J. Suddenly on April 11, 2000. Dear friend and colleague. May God bless you and keep you in the palm of his hands. Marie and Harry Costello       
 FISHER-George. On April 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Gloria. Devoted uncle and great-uncle. He will be profoundly missed. Service Monday 2:15pm at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 FITCH-James Marston. The Trustees of the James Marston Fitch Charitable Foundation wish to express their deepest sympathy to the family of James Marston Fitch. He will be remembered as the founder of Columbia University's Graduate Program for Historic Preservation and Premiere Historic Pres
 FRANKEL-G. David. The Board of Overseers of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a good friend and respected member of our Society of Founders, who continued the legacy of commitment to Einstein established by his late par
 GAMSON-Dr. Bernard W. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a longtime friend and supporter, distinguished scientist, industrialist, and leader of the Jewish community, and a founding member of the Yeshiva College Board of Directors-serving as cochair of its Academic A
 GAZDA-Louis S. Of Forest Hills on April 15, 2000, in his 96th year. NYS Funeral Director for 70 years. Owner of Glascott Funeral Home, Forest Hills. Beloved husband of the late Ann. Loving father of Louis W. Gazda and the late Marylin Serpe Gazda. Dear grandfather of James and Thomas Gazda.
 KLEIN-Ruth R. On April 14, 2000. Of Royal Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Arthur H. Devoted mother of Robert Mark Klein of Great Neck, LI, and Paul Michael Klein of Aventura, FL. Dear sister of Anita Putterman, Irma Tyson and the late Raymond Ratnoff. Cherished grandmother of Keith
 SHACHNOW-Leonard H. Most devoted and adoring husband of Peggy, who loved and revered him everyday of their lives together. A father who knew no limits in his love for his sons Stephen, Douglas, and Bart. A grandfather who loved his granddaughters Amy, Julie, and Cosette beyond the bounds of
 STANNUS-Conrad J. On April 12, 2000. Loving husband of Suzanne Hilleary. Devoted father of Trevor and Samson Stannus. Cherished son, brother and brother-in-law, and friend to many. A celebration of life will be held in Jersey City on May 5 to celebrate his 45th birthday. For more informatio
 VORENBERG-James. The Board of Directors and Staff of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. deeply mourn the loss of our dear and respected colleague James Vorenberg. A brilliant and selfless leader in the cause of civil and human rights, Mr. Vorenberg provided our organization 
 WALKER-Charles A. Age 85, of New Haven, CT on April 12, after a short illness. Beloved husband of Bernice Rolf Walker and loving father of Allen, John and Larry. Cherished grandfather of Karin, Jessica, Courtney and Meredith. Charlie was raised in the Texas panhandle and made his way to the
 WENTWORTH-Alfred R. Of Sarasota, FL. Born in Reno, NV. March 9, 1920. Attended Williston Academy, Easthampton, MA. Graduated 1939. Served on their Board of Trustees from 1954-1958 and 1963-1973, also serving as Vice President from 1964-1970. He was elected Life Trustee in 1970 and received 
 Robert Emmett, an actor and writer for the stage and screen whose credits include the 1960's satirical television news show ''That Was the Week That Was,'' died April 8 at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Emmett died after 
 Edward Gorey, the artist and author who was a grand master of the comic macabre and delighted generations of readers with his spidery drawings and stories of hapless children, swooning maidens, throbblefooted specters, threatening topiary and weird, mysterious events on eerie Victorian land
 John deKoven Alsop, a veteran of Connecticut Republican politics, a former gubernatorial candidate and a retired insurance company president, died April 6 at a health care center in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 84 and lived in Old Lyme, where he had moved from Avon, his birthplace, in 1986.  
 Justice W. Shepro, a lawyer and businessman who used his real estate fortune to transform himself into one of the nation's leading collectors of antique clocks, died in an automobile accident near Chicago on March 30. He was 74 and lived in Roscoe, Ill. Mr. Shepro's odyssey in time 
 Myles La Grange Mace, a professor emeritus at the Harvard Graduate School of Business who taught and wrote extensively about management techniques and corporate governance, died on March 24 at a nursing home in Natick, Mass. He was 88 and resided in Dover, Mass. Dr. Mace, a native o
 CINER-Irwin. Of Harrison, NY, on April 15, 2000, at the age of 97. Beloved husband of the late Marian Goldschmidt, caring father of Pat Hill and Liz Jackson, and father-inlaw of David Hill and Brooke Jackson, loving grandfather of Jean and Douglas Hill, and Jeffrey, Brett and Jennie Jackson
 FANTO-George. Former Vice President of U.S. operations for Daks-Simpson, on April 14, 2000. Survived by his wife Marianne, son Robert, daughters Sharon and Christina, four grandchildren, a sister Gaby Nadas and a half brother John Mengers. A memorial service will be held Wednesday. For info
 FLASHNER-Dr. Jesse. On April 16, 2000, at the age of 79. Beloved husband of Leona. Devoted father of Rega and Gary Zuckerman and Graham. Proud grandfather of Jared, Brett and Todd. Brother of Esther. Dear brother-in-law of Murray. Service Tuesday, 10 AM, at ''Community Synagogue of Rye,'' 2
 GREEN-Rabbi Joel. Of Long Beach, NY. Beloved husband of Ann. Devoted father to Aaron. Brother of Rabbi Jacob (Florence), the late Dr. Arthur (Rivka), Dr. Leon (Claire). Dear uncle to his many nieces and nephews. Shiva will be observed at the home of Dr. Leon Green until Wednesday morning.  
 GREENBERG-Charles. On April 15, 2000. Beloved uncle of Martin and Debra Greenberg and Susan and Evan Schneider. Adored great uncle of Rachel, Benjamin, Kate and Emily. Cherished cousin, friend and colleague. Services today, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contribut
 HIKIND-Reb. Meyer. With deep sadness, Maimonides Medical Center records the passing of Reb. Meyer Hikind, long a member of the hospital family. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Frieda, to his devoted sons, Moshe, Dov, a loyal and esteemed friend of our Medical Center, an
 MOODY-Alfred G. S., Jr. Age 69 of Ridgewood, died Saturday, April 15, 2000, at the Valley Hospital, Ridgewood. Alfred grew up in Brooklyn and lived in New York City before moving to Ridgewood 33 years ago. He was a 1948 graduate of Poly Prep Country Day School, Brooklyn, a 1952 Graduate of 
 ROSENBERG-Milton L. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Milton L. Rosenberg. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Joan, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Martin Lowy, Secretary      
 SABRIN-George J., M.D. 86, of Manhasset and Westhampton Beach died peacefully March 31. He is survived by his loving wife of 58 years, Alma; his children Russell of Atlanta, GA, Douglas of Manhasset, Amy of Washington, D.C., and Pamela of NYC; grandchildren Adam, Michael and Lucy; and siste
 WEINREB-Dr. Herman. A kind and gentle man, a wonderful doctor. We will miss him. Falene and Paul Gottbetter       
 WEINREB-Herman, M.D. Passed away suddenly on April 14. A Clincal Associate Professor of Neurology at the NYU School of Medicine, Dr Weinreb was deeply compassionate and intensely devoted to his patients. The quintessential academic, he was an engaging teacher and innovative course director.
 Adm. Willard J. Smith, who was commandant of the Coast Guard from 1966 to 1970, died on April 1 at a nursing home in Atlantic Beach, Fla. He was 89. During his tenure, Admiral Smith oversaw the service's transition from the jurisdiction of the Treasury Department to the Department o
 Abram Chayes, a professor of international law at Harvard for more than 40 years and a top State Department official in the Kennedy administration, died on Sunday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 77. His family said he had pancreatic cancer. Mr. Chayes was o
 Daniel H. Thomas, a senior United States district judge who grappled with desegregation in southern Alabama and made a national reputation presiding over admiralty cases, died on Thursday at his home in Mobile, Ala. He was 93. President Harry S. Truman appointed him in 1951 to the b
 Eberhard Bethge, a German Protestant theologian who helped to make his countryman Dietrich Bonhoeffer one of the most influential Protestant theologians of the mid-1900's, died on March 18 in the Bethge home in Wachtberg, a suburb of Bonn. He was 90. Pastor Bonhoeffer was involved i
 John J. Barry, a veteran trial and appellate lawyer, died on April 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 60 and also lived in Sparta, N.J. His friend Alan C. Marcus said Mr. Barry had cancer. He was a partner in the law firm of Tompkins, McGuire, Wachenfeld & Barry, based in Ne
 BRYAN-Richard Dobbs Spaight. Of Rumson, NJ. on April 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Betsy, father of Helen Hubbard, Martha Bryan and Nancy Bryan Ketterer, grandfather of four. He is also survived by three brothers Gray, John and Marsh. His career at Chemical Bank spanned 38 years where he hel
 CINER-Irwin. Of Harrison, New York, on April 15, 2000, at the age of 97. Beloved husband of the late Marian Goldschmidt, caring father of Pat Hill and Liz Jackson, and father-in-law of David Hill and Brooke Jackson, loving grandfather of Jean and Douglas Hill, and Jeffrey, Brett and Jennie 
 GORDON-Rabbi Solomon, of New York and Highland Beach, Fla., died April 17, at 82. Loving and devoted husband of Janet. Devoted father of Rabbi Leonard (Lori Lefkovitz) Gordon, and Dr. Sharon (Robert Dworkin) Gordon. Loving grandfather of Ronya & Samara, Lili and Jordan. Beloved brother of E
 KEANE-Gilbert Harrison. On April 16, 2000. Loving husband to Hannah for fifty-nine years. He sowed many gardens and likewise, abundant wisdom and humor in the hearts of his many friends. Gentle, cherished father and father-in-law to Susan and Dean Avery, devoted grandfather to Jennifer and 
 KRUH-Elizabeth. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Elizabeth Kruh, beloved wife of Eric Kruh. We extend our deepest condolences to Eric and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 PRESSBURGER-Selly. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend and supporter who, with his late wife, Lena, was a YU Guardian. A major supporter of Jewish tradition, higher Jewish education, and synagogue life, he will be sorely missed by all who were privileged to
 SPENCER-Barry A. On April 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Joyce. Loving son of Lillian and the late Charles Spencer. Dear brother of Bruce. Cherished uncle to Ellen, Alex, Marc and Eric and cousin to Steve and Marge. Services Tuesday 9:30am at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. In li
 Rabbi Israel Schorr, the rabbi of Congregation Beth El-Young Israel in Brooklyn, died on March 31 at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 94 and lived in Borough Park. Rabbi Schorr was an Orthodox Jewish leader and noted Talmudic scholar and was also learned in secular fiel
 John Paul Blewett, a nuclear physicist who played a significant role in the development of particle accelerators, died at a hospital in Chapel Hill, N.C., on April 7. He was 89. A Chapel Hill resident, he had lived in Manhattan and New Suffolk, N.Y. Dr. Blewett retired in 1978 as a 
 Joseph J. Christian, chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, the country's largest public housing authority, from 1973 to 1985, died on Thursday at his home in DeBary, Fla. He was 84 and had moved to Florida in 1986. At the time Mr. Christian announced his retirement as cha
 Nicolas Bongard, a former Tiffany & Company executive and a business partner of Jean Schlumberger, a jewelry designer, died on April 7 at his Manhattan home. He was 91. Mr. Schlumberger, whose jewelry was expensive and fanciful, once said the ''transmission between artist and crafts
 DeBLASIO-Guido Alfred, M.D. Of Pelham, N.Y. on April 18, 2000. Practicing surgeon at Mount Vernon Hospital for forty years. Beloved husband of Patricia. Dear father of John, Claire Foss and Robert. Loving grandfather of Jennifer, Matthew, Rebecca, Amanda, Michelle and Nicholas Guido. Gradua
 GOLDMAN-Jeanne. The Faculty and Staff of Columbia University, Department of Pathology, wish to express their deepest sympathy to James E. Goldman, M.D., PhD, Professor of Pathology, and to his family, on the death of his beloved mother, Jeanne.       
 JOSSEM-Jack A. Of Boynton Beach, Florida died April 17, 2000. Devoted husband of the late Nancy; longtime companion of Sophie Lipsitt. Beloved father of Steven, Carl and Margo. Cherished grandfather, in-law, uncle, cousin, friend. A complicated man who was difficult to know yet easy to ador
 KERN-Robert, 65, a Professor of History at The University of New Mexico, died of cancer on April 15, 2000. He had taught at UNM for over 30 years. He graduated with a B.A. from Antioch College, obtained an MA and Ph.D in History from The University of Chicago. Of Mr. Kern's ten books, his d
 KESSLER-Milton. Poet, teacher and Professor. Died April 17, 2000 at the age of 69. He was the beloved husband of Sonia for 48 years, devoted father to David, Paula and Daniel, loving grandfather to Aaron, Jonah and Jason, and father-in-law to Karen, Meryl, and Neal. He was predeceased by hi
 KRAMER-Leonard. On April 17, 2000. The Office of Cohen and Kramer, MD, PC is deeply saddened by the death of Leonard Kramer, father of our founding partner Mark Kramer, MD. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Bernice, daughter Susan, grandchildren Jonathan, Jeremy, Keith, Chad and Ka
 O'HARA-Alfred P. ''Pete'' O'Hara of Patterson, New York died April 15 at home with his family at his side, after a brief illness. He was born in Patterson, New York to the late Peter and Anna (Peck) O'Hara. He loved the law. After being admitted to the bar in 1942 his practice would span th
 Dr. Sherwood Larned Washburn, an anthropologist and pioneering primatologist who linked the evolution of human behavior traits to the actions of apes and monkeys, died on Sunday at a hospital near his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 88. Dr. Washburn was an emeritus professor of anth
 George E. Taylor, a historian and political scientist who specialized in Asia, died on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 94. Professor Taylor ''was one of the founders of modern China studies in the United States,'' said Andrew J. Nathan, a professor of political science at Colu
 FALES-DeCoursey Jr. Archaeologist and Professor of History, died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on 12 April, 2000, of a heart attack. He was born in New York City on 9 March 1918, the son of Dorothy M. and DeCoursey Fales. He was enrolled in the Knickerbocker Grays, attended the Buckley Schoo
 KAUFMAN-Julius, Hon. With profound sorrow, the Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias, State of New York, mourns the lost of past Grand Chancellor Julius Kaufman on April 17, 2000. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Arlene, son Steven and family. Joel Bergenfeld, Grand Chancellor       
 KULCSAR-John J., M.D. On April 18, 2000. Past President of the Medical Board and Senior Attending Physician at Cabrini Medical Center, mentor, colleague and friend to past and present members of the medical and nursing staff. Devoted friend of the Sisters of the Sacred Heart. Beloved husban
 MEISEL-Sidney. The Museum Advisory Council of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, mourns the passing of Sidney Meisel, beloved father and respected patron of the arts. His support was vital to this museum in its early years, and we remain deeply grateful to him.       
 MERRICK-Samuel V., age 86, of Medford died on April 17th, 2000. Beloved husband of Eleanor P., father of John Rodney, Gregory and Tad and grandfather of five. Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Tuesday, April 25, 2000 at 11:00 AM at St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church, Point Pleasant Be
 WARREN-The Reverend William E. entered eternal life on April 18, 2000. Father Warren was pastor of St. Margaret of Cortona Church in the Bronx since July 1991. Beloved son of Mariana (nee Harkins) and the late William E. Warren, Sr. He attended St. Philip Neri Grammar School and Archbishop 
 Prince Hassan Aziz Hassan, a cousin of the last king of Egypt and a great-grandson of the Khedive Ismail, who built modern Cairo and the Suez Canal, died here on Sunday. He was 76. One of the few surviving members of the Mohammed Ali dynasty, Prince Hassan lived in obscurity in the 
 Alfred R. Wentworth, who as a Chase Manhattan executive in 1972 opened the first office of an American bank in the Soviet Union in more than 50 years, died on April 13 in Sarasota, Fla. He was 80. Mr. Wentworth joined the international department of the Chase National Bank in 1946. 
 De Coursey Fales Jr., an archaeologist and professor of history whose in-depth study of a single Greek vase shed light on the art and mythology of the ancient world, died on April 12 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother Haliburton
 Dr. Ernst Knobil, a physiologist whose studies of the hormonal system led to a better understanding of the female reproductive function and improved treatment of infertility, died on April 13 at the Texas Medical Center in Houston. He was 73 and lived in Houston. The cause was pancr
 Fred McMorrow, an author and a retired editor and Long Island section columnist for The New York Times, died yesterday in a nursing home in Walhalla, S.C. He was 74. His wife, Jeanne Baker McMorrow, said he had recently had a stroke after a long struggle with Alzheimer's disease.   
 GOODMAN-Lawrence Eugene. Of Saint Paul, Minnesota. Born in Manhattan, only son of the late Commissioner and Mrs. Joseph Goodman. Died on April 17, 2000, age 80, in College Station, Texas. 1st Lt. USS Missouri, U.S. Navy, World War II. Record Professor of Civil Engineering at the University 
 HARRISON-Samuel I. Died April 17, 2000 in Albuquerque, formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Survived by his wife Mina, daughter Myrna Changar, grandchildren, Christopher Kaufman, David Changar, Susan Changar, Seth Kaufman & Hillary Kaufman, & great-grandchildren Zoe and Samuel Kaufman, and brother Lo
 MAYER-Richard J. On April 19, 2000. Loving husband of the late Helen Aberson Mayer. Cherished father of Andrew. Dear grandfather of Andrew. Beloved father-inlaw of Carmen. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Saturday 11AM to 1PM. A brief memorial service to f
 ROSKIN-Samuel. Age 89 years, on April 19, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Gussie, loving father of Carol and Bill, and father-in-law of Henry. Adoring grandfather of Lila, Jonathan and Robert, devoted brother of Al, Sol and Ruby and brother-in-law of Shirley, Carolyn, Millie, Gerty and Lo
 SATENSTEIN - Marvin. Passed away April 20, 2000 after his courageous battle with cancer. Loving husband & best friend of Edna for forty-six years. Cherished father of Lisa, David and Paul. Devoted ''Papa'' to Christina, Ryann, Taren, Cody, Kyle and Jaden. He was a self-employed paper broker
 SHAKIN-Arthur. Age 91, after a lifetime filled with love and compassion, humor, kindness and optimism. Survived by his loving wife Josephine, daughter Julie D'Arrigo, son-in-law Ross and grandson Douglas, who was his pride and joy. Brother of Sylvia Schechtman. Our Honey will be in our hear
 STEIN-Martin H., M.D. The members of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dr. Martin H. Stein, a revered and honored clinician, an educator who trained and guided several generations of psychoanalysts. He was constantly sought after a
 STEINBERG-Jules Henry. On April 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving father of Barbara, Susan, Robin and Steven. Loving grandfather of Jeffrey, Stefanie and Jessica. Jules enriched our lives with his love and devotion, and created a family that will forever be with him. Contributions m
 Samuel V. Merrick, a Washington lawyer who in 1984 directed the United States to its best showing in Olympic yachting, died Monday at his home in Medford, N.J. He was 86 and had competed in one-design sailboat races since 1926. In 1977, after working 35 years in labor and Congressio
 Sergei Zalygin, a writer and the chief editor of the literary journal Novy Mir who in the late 1980's published long-banned works by Boris Pasternak, Joseph Brodsky and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, died on Wednesday at a hospital here. He was 86. Mr. Zalygin edited Novy Mir from 1986 to 
 George S. Moore, a banker who led the overseas expansion of what became Citibank and steered the Metropolitan Opera through turbulent financial times, died yesterday at his home in Sotograde, Spain. He was 95. Mr. Moore, who eventually rose to become chairman of First National City 
 ATTRIDGE-Terry, Monsignor. On April 20, 2000. Pastor of Sacred Heart Church, Dobbs Ferry, NY. Survived by his parents Jim and Peg; one sister, Pat Bessette; three nephews, Kevin, Brian and Matthew O'Gorman; one uncle, Arthur Attridge. Visiting Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave, (e
 BEIZER-Samuel. On April 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Laurel. Loving father of Chanan, Tamara, and Mordechai. Dear brother of Boris and Margo. Adoring grandfather of Kalanit, Ronit, Avraham Hoshia, Aidan, Elisheva, Nina, Alexandra and Victoria. In lieu of flowers contributions in his name ma
 BERGERSEN - Louis Baldwin. Composer and entertainer at the piano. Died of cancer on April 17, 2000 at age 86. He was born of American parents in Vienna, and resided in Manhattan. He composed music for a number of shows that were produced in New York and London, including ''All in Fun'' (194
 FUCHS-Hanno. April 18, 2000. Survived by his beloved Judith, loving father of seven children and stepchildren and grandfather of four. Also devoted husband of the late Carol. Following a distinguished career in advertising, he graduated law school at the age of 67. Hanno was an active tenni
 ROSKIN-Samuel. Past-President of the Board of Directors for Workmen's Circle MultiCare Center for 10 years. He was devoted to the quality of life and care of the residents. He will be missed by all who knew him. The Board of Directors and Administration of the Center wish to express their c
 STEIN-Martin H., M.D. The members of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dr. Martin H. Stein, a revered and honored clinician, an educator who trained and guided several generations of psychoanalysts. He was constantly sought after a
 WHITE-Robert W. Age 60, on April 19, 2000 at home. Beloved husband of Elissa; loving father of Matthew White and Martin Adler; devoted to the Waters family, and longtime friend to many. Author, inventor, artist and teacher, he took the road less traveled and we are the richer for it. We wil
 ALPER-James B. Died on Earth Day, April 22, 1990. Happiness came on secret winds and surrounded him forever in the ways of beauty. (Inspired by American Indian proverb) Forever, Rit       
 Ray Vicker, an author and former foreign correspondent for The Wall Street Journal, died on Wednesday at a nursing center in Tucson. He was 82 and had lived in Tucson for the last 10 years. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Margaret. Mr. Vicker was the London bureau chi
 Todd Webb, a photographer who documented the everyday life and architecture of New York, Paris and the American West, died last Saturday at Central Maine Medical Center in Lewiston. He was 94 and lived in Auburn, Me. Solid and dignified, with a sharp focus and full tonal range, Mr. 
 Alexander H. Cohen, one of the last old-time independent theatrical producers, who produced 101 shows on Broadway and in London's West End and originated the national Tony Awards telecast in 1967, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was respirato
 Alfred Peck O'Hara, a Manhattan lawyer, former federal prosecutor and past president of the Bacardi Corporation, died April 15 at his home in Patterson, his birthplace in Putnam County, N.Y. He was 80. At the time of his death, Mr. O'Hara, known as Pete, was of counsel to the Manhat
 Undaunted by the fact that he was doing the impossible, Edward J. Logue roared up and down the East Coast from the 1950's to the 1980's like an urban renewal whirlwind, building and rebuilding precincts on which others had given up hope: downtown New Haven, Scollay Square in Boston, Rooseve
 ATTRIDGE-Terry, Monsignor. On April 20, 2000. Pastor of Sacred Heart Church, Dobbs Ferry, NY. Survived by his parents Deacon James and Margaret (nee Murphy); one sister, Patricia Bessette; three nephews, Kevin, Brian and Matthew O'Gorman; one uncle, Arthur Attridge. Visiting EdwardsDowdle F
 AUERBACH-Gerald. We mourn the loss of this dear friend and Director of MDA's Television Production Division. An extraordinarily talented film and television director and producer, Jerry created his first film for the Association in 1956. He produced thousands of educational videos during so
 BEIZER-Samuel. On April 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Laurel. Loving father of Chanan, Tamara, and Mordechai. Dear brother of Boris and Margo. Adoring grandfather of Kalanit, Ronit, Avraham Hoshia, Aidan, Elisheva, Nina, Alexandra and Victoria. In lieu of flowers contributions in his name ma
 BERKOWITZ-Bryant, 68, formerly of Flushing, NY, passed away at his residence in West Palm Beach, FL on Thursday, April 20, 2000. Beloved husband of Enid, devoted father of Andree, Matthew, Jack, cherished grandfather of Michael, dear brother of Joan, Daveda and the late Martin and loving un
 COSTARELLI-Ernesto. The Officers, Directors and Employees of Parkside Memorial Chapels, Inc. mourn the passing of their friend ''Ernie''. Our deepest condolences are extended to his devoted wife Sue and his loving children Linda Morelli and Tommy. We will all miss his good nature & friendsh
 MODEL-Joseph. We note with great sorrow the passing of the most dedicated past President of the former Fur Center Synagogue. Sincere sympathy is extended to his dear family and loved ones.       
 NATVIG-Arthur G., age 84, native of Brooklyn, New York and along time executive at Citibank, died on April 18, 2000 at New Port Richey, Florida after a lengthy illness. Mr. Natvig began his career with Citibank as a 15 year old office boy in 1931 in New York City and retired in 1976 as a Vi
 ROSKIN-Samuel. Past-President of the Board of Directors for Workmen's Circle MultiCare Center for 10 years. He was devoted to the quality of life and care of the residents. He will be missed by all who knew him. The Board of Directors and Administration of the Center wish to express their c
 SLATER - Dr. Sherwood B. ''Woody'', Assistant Executive Director of the Joseph L. Morse Geriatric Center, died Thursday, April 20, 2000. He was 63. Dr. Slater served as Associate Executive Vice President of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, and was a social scientist with th
 STONEHILL-Raymond P. 85. ''Sportsman and lover;'' lighting engineer and businessman; creator of children's stories ''Rover, Duncan and Pete.'' Loving husband of Betty (who predeceased him), adored father of Ann (Stanley Bernard) and Janet Mondshein (Chris), beloved Grampy of Aleesa and Greg
 WEINTRAUB-Jacob D. Died April 21, 2000. Survived by his loving wife Bronka Weintraub. A member of Temple Emanuel. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. WEINTRAUB-Jacob D. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Jacob D
 Arthur Morton, a composer who worked in films and television, died on April 15 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Morton composed and orchestrated background music for numerous films and television shows during his 65-year career in Hollywood. His first film score wa
 Fritz W. Alexander II, the first black judge to serve a full term on  New York State's highest court and a deputy mayor under Mayor David N. Dinkins, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital at 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. From his days as a Supreme Court justice in Manhat
 John W. Rollins Sr., a Georgia farm boy who went on to found or co-found seven companies taken public on the New York Stock Exchange and served as the lieutenant governor of Delaware in the 1950's, died on April 4 at his office in Fairfax, Del. He was 83. A major contributor to Repu
 BERKOWITZ-Bryant. The members of Banking and Finance Unit of B'nai Brith mourn the loss of the father of our past president, board member and continued leader of our Unit, Jack Berkowitz. Our deepest sympathy to Jack and his family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerus
 DEUTSCHMEISTER-Stephen H. On April 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Joan. Loving father of Jason and his wife Beth, and Gary and his wife Janet. Cherished grandfather of Jessica, Brian, Chelsea and Amy. Services Monday (today), 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. 
 DINSMORE-Arthur H., 88, of Tarrytown, New York, died on April 7, 2000 while visiting his daughter, in San Diego, California. A 1933 graduate of Lafayette College, he worked in the insurance business all of his life, and at the time of his death was connected with Hagendorn & Co. in New York
 FEIN-Bernard. Born July 11, 1932, died April 22, 2000. Beloved husband and best friend of Carol (Rosenberg) Fein. Devoted son of Mollie Fein. Loving father of Neil and Michele (Fein) Weinman and dear son-in-law Mark, and like a second father to Jacky Fein. Adored ''PA'' to granddaughter Aly
 HARRIS-Howard S. On April 22, 2000, at the age of 57. Beloved husband of Carol. Loving father of Scott. Devoted son of Sidney and Ruth. He chaired the Social Sciences Department at Bronx Community College for the past 20 years and taught psychology for more than 30 years. He was the Vice Pr
 MODEL-Joseph. Beloved husband of Annabelle. Loving father of Bennett and Roberta. Dear grandfather of Summer, Brett, Tierney and Albert. Loving brother of Mark. The President for 15 years of the Fur Center Synagogue. He received numerous awards from B'nai Brith, the UJA and the ADL. Receive
 STERLING-Clifford. Age 41, artist and nature enthusiast, died at home in New York, on April 16. Devoted and beloved husband of Ann. Dear son of Enid and Abraham (deceased), brother of Adam and Benjamin. A memorial recepetion for family and friends will be held on Friday, April 28, from 68 P
 WEINTRAUB-Jacob D. Died April 21, 2000. Survived by his loving wife Bronka Weintraub. A member of Temple Emanuel. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. WEINTRAUB-Jacob. It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of Jacob Weintraub, a loyal friend and supporter of Re
 ANTEBY-Abe. May 6, 1926-April 24, 1990. Lovingly remembered. His son, Charlie       
 Paul Bao-Jen Chu, a former international labor official and retired professor at Rutgers University, died on April 6 at a hospital in Port Charlotte, Fla., where he had moved from Bethesda, Md., four years ago. He was 85. Dr. Chu also formerly lived in Geneva and Bellemead, 
 Philip C. Keenan, whose work in the spectral classification of stars helped astronomers understand the chemical evolution of galaxies, died on Thursday at a hospital in Columbus, Ohio. He was 92. Dr. Keenan (pronounced kee-NAN) was emeritus professor of astronomy at Ohio State Unive
 Ronald Lockley, a naturalist and prolific author whose four-year study of rabbits inspired Richard Adams's 1972 book ''Watership Down,'' died on April 12 in Auckland, New Zealand. He was 96. Mr. Lockley wrote about 60 books, two-thirds of them about islands, one of his driving passi
 Fritz W. Alexander II, the first black judge to serve a full term on  New York State's highest court and a deputy mayor under Mayor David N. Dinkins, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital at 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. From his days as a Supreme Court justice in Manhat
 ALEXANDER-Fritz W., II. The NYU community grieves for the loss of its cherished friend, Fritz Alexander, an alumnus of our law school and a member of our Board of Trustees. A long-time member of the judiciary, the first African-American appointed to a full term on New York's highest court, 
 AUERBACH-Gerald. We mourn the loss of this dear friend and Director of MDA's Television Production Division. An extraordinarily talented film and television director and producer, Jerry created his first film for the Association in 1956. He produced thousands of educational videos during so
 BARANOF-Gene. Beloved husband of Iris. Heroic father of Marla and the late Lisa. Brother of Alfred and Ruth Ann. He will be missed by all who loved him and inspired by his courage. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St., on Thursday, April 27, 11:45 AM.       
 BERKOWITZ-Bryant. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Board Member Jack Berkowitz on the recent passing of his beloved father. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gedale B. Horowitz, Pr
 COHEN-Alexander H. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the death of Honorary Trustee, Alexander H. Cohen. Alex spearheaded the building of the extended care facility at The Actors' Fund Homes in Englewood, New Jersey. Many people helped by the Fund are eternally grateful for his efforts in i
 FEIN-Bernard. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Bernard Fein, beloved husband of our esteemed colleague Carol Fein. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing Bonnie Lipton, National President       
 FLOOD-William Richard, born in Brooklyn, NY, April 17, 1945, died in Richmond, Ind., April 23, 2000. Survived by his wife of 17 years, Darlene; a brother, James; two children, James and Elizabeth Flood, and a grandson, Michael. Proudly served his country in the Air Force from 1963 to 1971. 
 HARRIS-Howard. The Professional Staff Congress is saddened to announce the premature death of Howard Harris on April 22. He was 58. Professon Harris taught social sciences at Bronx Community College and he was a national expert in human services. He was the coauthor of a textbook in the fie
 KISSEL-Lester. In his 97th year. On April 21, 2000. Retired partner of the Law Firm of Seward & Kissel, LLP. Graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1925. Attended the University of Geneva, Switzerland in 1926 and 1927. Graduated from Harvard Law School in 1931. Mr. Kissel is survived
 KJELLGREN-Bengt H. On April 19, 2000 at age 68. Survived by his wife Alice and his children Eric, Nicholas and Katherine. Interment private. Memorial service to be announce. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Parkinson's Disease Foundation.       
 LANDSKROENER-Peter A. Rev., PhD. Rector of St. Matthew's Episcopal Church Barrington, Rhode Island. April 21, 2000. Husband of Joann (Sutherland) Landskroener. Residence Poppasquash Road Bristol. Vigil in St. Matthew's Episcopal Church, 5 Chapel Road, Barrington, Rhode Island on Tuesday fro
 LAWS-Wyatt, M.D., age 85, on April 22, 2000, peacefully at home in Cudjoe Key, FL. Husband of Brenda of Cudgoe Key and Plattsburgh, NY. Father of Wendy Riggs of Bronxville, NY and grandfather of Jennifer Riggs Vetter of Oakland, CA., and Sarah Riggs of Ann Arbor, MI. B.A. and M.D. from McGi
 MERMELSTEIN-Matthew David. Meriden, Connecticut, 71, died unexpectedly Saturday afternoon, April 22, 2000. He was born in New York City, in 1928, the son of the late Bernard and Betty Lazareff Mermelstein. He graduated from New York City College with his Master's in Psychology in 1951. He w
 NATHAN-Harold I. April 15, 2000 at age 65. We mourn the passing of our cousin, Harold Nathan, Retired Master Sergeant US Air Force serving several tours in Viet Nam, he received the Air Force Commendation Medal with three Oak Leaf Clusters & was awarded the Bronze Star. Funeral at Arlington
 POLLOCK-Larry. Beloved husband of Rachel, father of William and Michael, grandfather of Joshua, brother of Jack. Passed away after long illness. Resident of Roslyn Heights, NY, Hemlock Farms, PA, and Williams Island, FL. Adored and admired by family and friends, he will be sorely missed. In
 RICHMAN-Harry. 84 years. Died April 24, 2000. Beloved husband of Henrietta, loving father of Joyce and Michael and their spouses, dearest grandfather to Elliot, Stacy, Melissa and Samuel. Nothing gave him more pleasure than his family. Outstanding sales leader in the dental industry. Confid
 SLATER-Sherwood B. Dr. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of Dr. Sherwood B. Slater, our distinguished friend and colleague, who played a key role in JDC's lifesaving activities. We extend condolences to his
 SMITH-James. An esteemed memeber of the New York Philharmonic from 1942 until his retirement in 1977. Beloved husband of Sophie Smith (the former Sophie Atkatz, nee Cohen) devoted father of Sky Smith, Brook Smith, and Bonnie Ruggiero; loving stepfather of Adrienne Smith, Steve Atkatz, and K
 TEITELBAUM-Bernard. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Bernard Teitelbaum, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Gertrude, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 WEINBERG-David. Beloved father of Leonard and Allen; father-inlaw of Julia and Gina; grandfather of Harrison, Joseph and Rachel, on April 23, 2000. Services Tuesday, April 25, 4:00 PM at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd., at 76th Rd., Queens, NY. Dave will be remembered with love by th
 WEINTRAUB-Jacob D. The entire Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University community is deeply grieved by the passing of our dear friend and Benefactor, who with his wife, Bronka, generously supported medical research and educational programs at our institution for many years. 
 WERBER-Francis J. April 24, 2000, aged 79. Deeply devoted husband of the late Anne Sullivan Werber; beloved brother of Florence, Isabel and the late Charles Werber; wonderful father to his sons Frank, Robert, John and Andrew; loving grandfather to Nicholas, Elizabeth and William Werber. A m
 Al Purdy, a lanky writer whose brash, freewheeling ways masked a love for language that produced 33 volumes of poetry, died on Friday at his winter home in Sidney, on Vancouver Island. He was 81. Arguing about Yeats and tinkering with lines of verse to the end, Mr. Purdy died on a b
 Andre Jarrot, a hero of the French Resistance against the occupying Germans in World War II who became a cabinet minister in the 1970's, died on Friday at his home in the Burgundy region of France. He was 90. His death was announced by the office of President Jacques Chirac, who dec
 Erle Cocke Jr., a decorated World War II soldier who was the national commander of the American Legion in 1950 and 1951, died on Sunday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 78. The cause was cancer. Mr. Cocke, at age 29, became the youngest person to command the American L
 ALEXANDER-Judge Fritz W. II. The Respect For Law Alliance, Inc, mourns the loss of our Incorporator, friend, advisor and colleague, Judge Fritz W. Alexander, II. In addition to being one of our organizers, as a Founding Director, Officer, and active Member, Judge Alexander was a guiding lig
 BARANOF-Gene. Beloved husband of Iris. Heroic father of Marla and the late Lisa. Brother of Alfred and Ruth Ann. He will be missed by all who loved him and inspired by his courage. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St., on Thursday, April 27, 11:45 AM.       
 KRAFT-Sarah. Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life, mourns the passing of Sarah Kraft, beloved mother of Robert K. Kraft, a member of Hillel's International Board of Governors. We extend our condolences to his wife, Myra, and the entire Kraft family. May they know no further sorrow.
 MOORE-George S. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of George Moore, Treasurer of the Board from 1958-1967, President of the Board from 1967-1974 and Chairman from 1974-1975. An Honorary Director at the time of his death, we recall his firm leadership of the Metropolitan Opera during a 
 MOORE-George S. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital and the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University are saddened by the passing of our friend and esteemed Life Trustee, George S. Moore. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. 
 ROBBINS-Robert T. Of Boca Raton Florida, age 62, entered into Rest on April 18, 2000. He was born in Long Island on July 24, 1937, the son of the late Dr. Abner and Bebe Robbins. Mr. Robbins, an outstanding athlete in his youth, was a graduate of the Wharton School. He was a caring and lovi
 ROTH-Lillian. On Monday, April 24, 2000. Beloved mother of Stanley Roth and his wife Barbara. Cherished grandmother of Lori Schnadig, Jodi Wasserstein & Steven Roth. Great grandmother of Jennifer, Michael and Matthew. Services 3PM Thursday at Louis Suburban Chapel, 13-01 Broadway, Fair Lawn
 ROTHMAN-Frank. The partners, attorneys and staff of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP express our heartfelt condolences upon the passing of our partner, colleague and friend, Frank Rothman. He was a giant amongst us. Frank was a valued mentor to his partners and colleagues, and a sag
 SMITH-James. The PhilharmonicSymphony Society of New York, Inc., notes with sadness the death of James Smith, who joined the Philharmonic in 1942 and retired from the Orchestra as Third Trumpet in 1977. Prior to becoming a member of the Philharmonic, he studied at the Juilliard School and p
 STRUMPF-Irving. The Officers, Staff and families of Queens Child Guidance Center mourn the loss of our dearest friend, board member and beloved husband of our former Executive Director, the late Sonia Strumpf. We extend our deepest condolences to his family in profound appreciation for his 
 THOMPSON-Peter. The Kobal Collection is deeply saddened by the loss of our good friend. His gentle light will always be remembered. THOMPSON-Peter. We will always remember our kind, dear and gentle friend. Love, Margie, Darrly and Lauren       
 HE has 800 unsolved murder cases crammed into scrapbooks that line the walls of his offices, his laboratory, even his bathroom, like so much incriminating wallpaper: no wonder the man Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut calls the most famous detective since Sherlock Holmes -- the man whose 
 David Merrick, the producer whose gift for creating Broadway hits was matched only by his genius for attracting publicity and making enemies, died yesterday in his sleep at St. George's Rest Home in London. He was 88. For a quarter-century that ended with his last blockbuster, the m
 Frank Rothman, a trial lawyer who represented the National Football League in some of its most important cases and who once ran the MGM movie studio, died Tuesday in a hospital here from complications following surgery, his family said. He was 73 and had continued to practice law until earl
 Nicolaus Koni, a sculptor noted for his busts of prominent figures,  among them Marian Anderson, James V. Forrestal and David Ben-Gurion, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Riviera Beach, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Koni, a native of Hungary, immigrated in the late 1920's to Austria, where he
 ALEXANDER-Judge Fritz W. II. We mourn the death of this exemplary legal scholar, humanist, visionary, and inspiration. We cherish his memory and will be guided by his courage and integrity. We extend our condolences to his loving wife, Beverly, and to his family. The world is a better place
 BUDABIN-Dr. Murray, on April 25, 2000. Beloved husband of Angelica. Loving father of Nicole Wong, Alexis Budabin and Alexandra Cosima Budabin. Cherished grandfather to Samantha, Hanna and Savannah Wong. Services Friday 9:30AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. B
 COHEN-Alexander H. On April 22, 2000. Beloved husband of Hildy. Loving father of Barbara, Gerry and Christopher. Much loved grandfather of Brock and Pom Pom of Mia Alexandra. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Actors' Fund of America.       
 FAIRBURN-Gordon Ramsay, of New Canaan, CT, age 59, died peacefully on April 25. Husband of Phoebe Pier for 37 years. Father of Ramsay P. of Arlington, VA, Phoebe Larson of Ojai, CA, Arthur D. of Ft. Collins, CO, and James G. of Los Angeles. Brother of David H. of Greenwich, CT. Educated at 
 HARRIS-Howard S. A faculty member at Bronx Community College of the City University of New York for over 30 years, succumbed to cancer on April 22, 2000. Professor Harris distinguished himself as an Professor, researcher, author and Chairman of the Social Sciences Department for the past tw
 KARSON-Nelson. Of Great Neck died on April 16, 2000. He was 79 years old and died at North Shore University Hospital of complications following a stroke. Mr. Karson was a retired electrical engineer. He moved to Great Neck in 1957 and resided there until his death. He was married to the lat
 PHELAN-Robert Thomas, 87, died on April 24, 2000 suddenly at his home in Delray Beach, FL. Cherished husband of 47 years of Mimi Morgan Phelan, beloved father of James J. II (Kathy), Jody Phelan Cooney, Gerard T., Robert M. and fond grandfather of Andrew G. and John M. II. He was a devoted 
 PIKE-William W., 96, psychoanalyst and a veteran of Abraham Lincoln Brigade (VALB). Husband of 58 years of Edith (deceased); father of Peri and Steven (Paula); grandfather; brother; uncle; greatuncle. His dedication to his profession and humanitarian causes will be remembered by his family 
 RAAMOT-Tonis, 68, renowned civil engineer. Tonis Raamot, CEO, of Raamot Associates, P.C. died on Wednesday 26 April 2000 at New York University Medical Center. Dr. Raamot established the firm in 1969 and was a recognized authority on soil mechanics and foundation engineering in the United S
 ROSS-Maxwell S., DDS. Age 88, died on Tuesday, April 25th, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Beloved husband of 65 years of Roslyn (nee Fassberg). Adored father of Gail Davenport, Paula Gladieux and Dr. Jeffrey Ross. Loving grandfather of Dr. Kenneth and Michele Gladieux, Stephen Melchior, Susan
 ROTHENBERG-Aaron. 85. Of Bal Harbour, FL died April 25, 2000. He founded Sylvette Shops in 1935 together with his wife Sylvia. Born on the Lower East Side he lived in Jersey City before retiring to Florida. Surviving are his sister Rose Feldman, 2 daughters Lois Weiss of Tenafly, NJ, Trisha
 SEDA-Damaso, of Cortlandt Manor, NY, died April 25, 2000, age 62. Born NYC, April 17, 1938 to Damaso and Mercedes Ramos Seda. Graduated Empire State College, earned a B.S. degree in 1983. Served in US Navy, 1955-59. After starting out fueling buses and maintaining subway cars, he eventually
 Herbert Wechsler, the Columbia Law School professor whose work on criminal and constitutional law helped shape the nation's legal system over half a century, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Wechsler's achievements were remarkably varied, ranging from the c
 Dr. Martin H. Stein, a psychoanalyst who was president of the New York Psychoanalytic Society in the 1960's, died on April 19 at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived on the Upper East Side. Dr. Stein retired about a year ago from his private psychoanalyti
 DICHTER-Harold. We mourn the passing of a lifelong friend and partner and we will miss his indomitable spirit, his passionate devotion to family and friends. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his beloved wife Ethel, and his daughter Rochelle, and all their dear ones. Alice and Bernard Ley
 FAIRBURN-Gordon Ramsay. The Trustees and staff of the New York Society Library express deep sorrow at the loss of our friend and esteemed colleague Gordon Fairburn, Trustee for 22 years. His work as Secretary and Library Committee Chairman was much valued, as was his warmth and dedication t
 GILLESPIE-Gregory. Forum Gallery, New York, honors the life and brilliant work of Gregory Gillespie. A great and unique American painter, he leaves a legacy of extraordinary art in public and private collections. His great courage and talent are an ongoing inspiration. We extend condolences
 GOLDIN-Gurston D., M.D. On April 25. Beloved husband of Marjorie Beckhardt, devoted father of Davidson & Nicholas, loyal brother of Jessica Stern & Harrison J. Goldin. Psychiatrist who was guided always by an insatiable pursuit of knowledge and love of life. GOLDIN-Gurston D. Gursto
 HIRSCH-Joseph Samuel of Manhattan. On April 23 at age 92. He left Germany in 1934 for what was the British mandate of Palestine, bringing his parents, niece and nephew to safety. A ships carpenter, he came to the U.S. in 1943 and saw action in World War II when his freighter was torpedoed d
 KENT-Ira Leslie (Clark). A resident of NY and Southampton died Saturday, April 22, unexpectedly of a heart attack at his home in Southampton. Ira was an entrepreneur who started several successful businesses in NYC and Southampton, including Dana Kent Fashions and the August Too boutiques. 
 KISS-Tibor, MD, 77. On April 26, 2000 after a prolonged illness, surrounded by his family Linda and their children Barbra and Andrew (Kim). Born in Novi Sad, Yugoslavia to the Chief Rabbi Henrik Kiss and Gizella. After surviving WWII he became a surgeon in Hungary and later immigrated to th
 KRELOFF-Isidore ''Mike.'' Loving husband of Ruth. Adoring father of Carol and Steven Bassin and Susan Kind and Richard Raker. M.D. Proud grandfather to eleven grandchildren and one greatgranddaughter. He will be remembered as a successful accountant, an avid tennis player, a proud member of
 MERRICK-David, 88, died peacefully in his sleep in London, Tuesday, April 25, 2000. Beloved husband and cherished companion of Natalie Lloyd Merrick. Burial private. A memorial service will be announced. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the David Merrick Arts Foundation Fund
 O'BRIEN-Peter S. Marine, Educator, Unionist. After serving on active duty with the U.S. Marine Corps during the Korean War, Peter O'Brien continued his military service with the Marine Corps Reserve. He became proficient in all aspects of Marine Corps Air Control and retired as Lieutenant C
 TOBIN-Robert L.B. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Robert L. B. Tobin. An honorary director at the time of his death, Robert joined the board of the Metropolitan Opera Association as a managing director in 1976. He has left a
 WERBER-Francis J. April 24, 2000, aged 79. Deeply devoted husband of the late Anne Sullivan Werber; beloved brother of Florence, Isabel and the late Charles Werber; wonderful father to his sons, Frank, Robert, John and Andrew; loving grandfather to Nicholas, Elizabeth and William Werber. A 
 WITTEN-Carl on April 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Bernice (nee: Spivack). Loving father of Marsha, Richard and Jon. Devoted grandfather of Anne, Alex, Benjamin, James and Joshua. Funeral service today at Larchmont Temple in Larchmont, New York. Interment at Sharon Memorial Park in Sharon, M
 ZAFIAN-Henry J. The partners of the firm of Fish & Neave express their sorrow at the passing of their retired partner, Henry J. Zafian on April 26. Henry was a part of this firm for 40 years including six years in which he served as Managing Partner. We will all miss him ZAFIAN-Henr
 Robert L. Zion, a landscape architect who designed some of New York's most cherished oases, died on Tuesday in a traffic accident in Imlaystown, N.J., where he worked. Mr. Zion was 79 and lived in nearby Cream Ridge. The Associated Press reported that the accident occurred when Mr. 
 Elmer Gertz, a leading Chicago lawyer who successfully represented the convicted thrill killer Nathan Leopold, the sexually explicit author  Henry Miller and Jack Ruby, assassin of Lee Harvey Oswald, died on Thursday at an acute-care center in Chicago. He was 93. Mr. Gertz, who was 
 Gregory Gillespie, an artist whose probing, urgent, often bizarre paintings occupied a singular place in the history of late-20th-century representation, died on Wednesday at his home in Belchertown, Mass, an apparent suicide. He was 64. Mr. Gillespie's wife, Peggy, found him hangin
 BLACK-Eugene Robert, retired investment banker and longtime playwright, died April 24 at Mount Sinai. A memorial service will be held Sunday, 2pm, Saint Luke's Episcopal Church, East Hampton. Gene, as he was known, was born in Atlanta on July 19, 1924, the son of Eugene R. Black (later pres
 de ROTHSCHILD-Raphael. On April 22nd, 2000 at age 23 in New York. Adored son of Nili and Nathaniel de Rothschild, and adored brother of Esther de Rothschild. The most kind, thoughtful, intelligent, charming, compassionate human being that ever was, he blessed his parents, his sister and his
 DICHTER-Harold. On April 27, 2000, our much adored Harold lost his heroic battle to overcome a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of Ethel. Loving father to Shelley and son-in-law Richard. Devoted grandfather and best friend to Alex. Cherished brother of Ralph. Ardently committed to his fam
 FORASTE-Roland, M.D., age 62, of NYC, Greenwich, CT and Windham, NY, on April 27th by automobile accident. Beloved son of Anita and the late Paul Foraste of Osterville, MA and dear friend of Grace Ungers of NYC. Brother of Paul Foraste, M.D., of Centerville, MA, Roger of Hingham, MA and Joh
 GILLESPIE-Gregory. Artist. My heart is full of pain for my darling daughter Peggy and my grandchild Jay. May my dear son-in-law rest in peace and find comfort wherever he may be. With all my love, Naomi       
 GOLDIN-Gurston D. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Dr. Gurston D. Goldin. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to his family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Alisa Doctoroff, President       
 HUNTER-William F., age 64, of Bardonia, NY, formerly of New City, NY, passed away on Thursday, April 27, 2000 at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital after a long battle with cancer. He was born in Brooklyn, the son of William and Ellen (nee Corcoran) Hunter. He married Elenore Cherry in 1959 in Asto
 LEVITT-Marvin, M.D. On April 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne, loving father of Jane & Jim, fond father-in-law of Robert & Mira, devoted grandfather of Emily, Paul, Madeline & Jonathan. Services Sunday 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Donations may be made to the M
 MEYERS-Aaron (Archie). Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted longtime member, Archie Meyers. Archie and his beloved wife, Corinne, have been members of Rodeph Sholom for over 50 years. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife and daughters, Sherri and Carole, and al
 TOBIN-Robert L.B. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Robert L. B. Tobin. An honorary director at the time of his death, Robert joined the board of the Metropolitan Opera Association as a managing director in 1976. He has left a
 ZAFIAN-Henry J., a retired partner of the intellectual property law firm of Fish & Neave, New York City and Palo Alto, California, died on April 26, 2000. He was 78 years old and lived in New York City. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer. Mr. Zafian joined Fish & Neave upon his gradua
 Toon Hermans, a beloved Dutch stage performer who was as comfortable in poetry, song and folk philosophy as in making people ache with laughter, died last Saturday in a hospital in Utrecht, the Netherlands. He was 83. Mr. Hermans, who spent his life in the spotlight, was buried priv
 David Spanier, a British journalist who loved poker and wrote extensively and amusingly about it in a series of popular books, died on April 18 after collapsing while playing cards at a London casino. He was 67 and lived in London. The cause was a massive stroke, said his eldest son
 Jack Best, one of the last survivors of the audacious group of British prisoners in World War II who constructed a glider under the noses of their Nazi captors in order to fly from the roof of their prison to freedom, died April 22 in a hospital in Herefordshire, England. He was 87.        
 ALTMAN-Jerome, DDS, 79, of Aventura, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY, on April 27th, 2000 after a long illness. Best friend and devoted husband of 56 years to Anita. Loving father of Linda (Michael) and Meryl (Ralph). Adored grandfather of Dana (Michael), Jordan, Jared and Amanda. He graduated
 BORKOWSKI-Charles P., Jr. On April 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Kathleen (nee Clauss). Dear father of Laura and Douglas. Devoted son of Charles P. Borkowski, M.D. Loving brother of Barbara Pringle, Alicia Sumilas and Mary Virginia Borkowski. Funeral service Tuesday, May 2nd at The Shrine of
 de ROTHSCHILD-Raphael. On April 22nd, 2000 at age 23 in New York. Adored son of Nili and Nathaniel de Rothschild, and adored brother of Esther de Rothschild. The most kind, thoughtful, intelligent, charming, compassionate human being that ever was, he blessed his parents, his sister and his
 FISKE-Lawrence, of Black Mountain, NC and formerly of Darien, CT and East Dorset, VT died on April 19, 2000. He was 88 years old. Mr. Fiske, a long term veteran of the steamship industry, served in various executive positions having been appointed President of Moore-McCormack Lines and its 
 FORASTE-Roland, M.D., age 62, of NYC, Greenwich, CT and Windham, NY, on April 27th by automobile accident. Beloved son of Anita and the late Paul Foraste of Osterville, MA and dear friend of Grace Ungers of NYC. Brother of Paul Foraste, M.D., of Centerville, MA, Roger of Hingham, MA and Joh
 GEHAN-John J. (April 30, 1928April 9, 2000) Jack Gehan had a distinguished career in healthcare administration, rehabilitation and education. As Executive Director of the Central Labor Rehabilitation Council of NY, he made a lasting contribution to the field of chemical dependency services,
 HELLMAN-Harold. Of Boca Raton, FL died on April 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Lotte. Loving father of Mary Warren and Robert. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey Warren, Lisa (Joshua) Gordon, Benjamin Hellman and great grandfather of Noah Gordon. He was a senior Vice President of Best Foods, In
 KOSSOFF-Burton ''Buddy.'' On April 29, 2000, at age 76 years. Beloved and cherished husband of Phyllis L. Kossoff, devoted and caring father of Mitchell and Pamela Kossoff and the late Stephanie Lynn Kossoff. Adored grandfather of Joshua, Alec, Noah and Jeremy. Extraordinary man and magnifi
 KOVACS-Stephen, (75) former CEO and then Chairman of L.F. Rothschild, Unterberg & Towbin, passed away April 20th in Westtown, NY. Beloved father, he is survived by his children, Stephen and Suzanne. Memorial services May 6th, 12:30 PM at St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Englewood, NJ. Donations
 LEVITT-Marvin, M.D. On April 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne, loving father of Jane & Jim, fond father-in-law of Robert & Mira, devoted grandfather of Emily, Paul, Madeline & Jonathan. Services Sunday 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Donations may be made to the M
 ORR-Robert F. It is with deep sorrow and affection that we record the passing on April 27, 2000 of our devoted member and past president (1985) of The General Society of Mechanics & Tradesmen of The City of New York. For many years, Robert served on various committees, most notably on our L
 PHELAN-Robert T. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers note with sadness the death of Robert T. Phelan, valued friend and benefactor. We extend our deepest sympathy to his devoted wife and Hospice patron, Madeleine M. Phelan, and family. W. Michael Pitcher, President
 PIKE-William. The members of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of our colleague, Dr. William Pike, a member for nearly 50 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his family members: Peri, Steven, Paula, Seth and Alden Pike. His wife, Mrs. Edith Pike (decea
 ROSENBERG-David. 90, died peacefully April 26. Strong and determined, he spent his life as a social activist, a socialist with great faith in people. A 65 year partnership with wife Eve endured fascism, depression, McCarthyism, illness. French director Frederick Rosif chronicled their lives
 ROTHENBERG-Aaron. Our deepest sympathies to the Rothenberg family on the loss of their patriarch. We will miss him greatly. With love, Noreen, Peter, Ryan & Brendan Roth ROTHENBERG-Aaron. Heart felt condolences to the Rothenberg family on the loss of Aaron, my dear in-law. Love, Car
 STEIN-Martin H., M.D. The members of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dr. Martin H. Stein, a revered and honored clinician, an educator who trained and guided several generations of psychoanalysts. He was constantly sought after a
 TOBIN-Robert Lynn Batts passed away on Wednesday, April 26, 2000 in San Antonio from complications arising from cancer & respiratory failure. He was born to Margaret Batts and Edgar Gardner Tobin on March 12, 1934. He was named in honor of his grandfather, the distinguished Jurist Judge Rob
 WECHSLER-Herbert. On April 26, 2000. Age 90. Husband of Doris (Larson), brother-in-law of Nancy Wechsler, uncle of Holly Schwarztol and brother of the late James Wechsler. Services private. WECHSLER-Herbert. The Faculty and Staff of Columbia Law School deeply mourn the passing of it
 ZAFIAN-Henry J., a retired partner of the intellectual property law firm of Fish & Neave, New York City and Palo Alto, California, died on April 26, 2000. He was 78 years old and lived in New York City. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer. Mr. Zafian joined Fish & Neave upon his gradua
 Robert L. B. Tobin, a Texas art collector and patron who built one of the most important theater design collections in the country, died on Wednesday at a hospital in San Antonio. He was 66. The cause was complications from cancer, said his friend and lawyer, Bruce Bugg. He said tha
