Glenn S. Dumke, chancellor of the California State University system from 1962 to 1982, died of a heart attack Thursday night at his home in Los Angeles, the university announced today. He was 72 years old.  Dr. Dumke presided over the state system as it grew from 16 separate state co
Gregory McMahon, a Republican who was a member of the New York Congressional delegation from 1948 to 1950, died Tuesday at the Sun Harbor Nursing Home in Roslyn Heights, L.I. He was 74 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I. Gregory McMahon, a Republican who was a member of t
Grzegorz Bialkowski, rector of Warsaw University and a successful Solidarity-backed candidate for the new upper house of Parliament, died on Thursday of a heart attack. He was 56 years old. Grzegorz Bialkowski, rector of Warsaw University and a successful Solidarity-backed can
Dr. Jack Burton Weissman, an associate professor of medicine at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons who specialized in infectious diseases, died Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 44 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Jack Burton 
John E. McAniff, a lawyer and retired law professor, died of a stroke Thursday at his home in Spring Lake, N.J. He was 86 years old. John E. McAniff, a lawyer and retired law professor, died of a stroke Thursday at his home in Spring Lake, N.J. He was 86 years old. Mr.
Magnus Jan Krynski, professor emeritus of Slavic languages and literature at Duke University, Durham, N.C., died of a heart attack Thursday at Durham County General Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Durham. Magnus Jan Krynski, professor emeritus of Slavic languages an
W. Kenneth Pope, a United Methodist bishop, died of natural causes Monday. He was 87 years old and lived in Dallas. W. Kenneth Pope, a United Methodist bishop, died of natural causes Monday. He was 87 years old and lived in Dallas. Elected bishop in 1960, Mr. Pope was 
Galen Drake, for many years a radio commentator in New York City and one of the first talk show hosts, died Friday of lung cancer at a nursing home in Long Beach, Calif. He was 83 years old and a resident of Long Beach. Galen Drake, for many years a radio commentator in New Yo
John Tyler Brister, a filmmaker whose animated movies won awards at the Cannes Film Festival, died here Wednesday. He was 38 years old. John Tyler Brister, a filmmaker whose animated movies won awards at the Cannes Film Festival, died here Wednesday. He was 38 years old.      
Archbishop Stephen Naidoo, the Roman Catholic primate of Cape Town and one of South Africa's leading anti-apartheid campaigners, died today during a private visit to London, his office said. He was 51 years old. Archbishop Stephen Naidoo, the Roman Catholic primate of Cape Tow
Alva Sole, a United States Airmail Service pioneer, died in his sleep Thursday. He was 99 years old. Alva Sole, a United States Airmail Service pioneer, died in his sleep Thursday. He was 99 years old. A highlight of his career was flying mail to President Franklin D. 
Byron Jay, a former president and chief executive of the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, died of heart failure yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. Byron Jay, a former president and chief executive of the Great Atlantic and Pacifi
Donald F. Carrick, a landscape artist and author and illustrator of children's books, died Monday at his home in Edgartown, Mass., after a brief illness. He was 60 years old. Donald F. Carrick, a landscape artist and author and illustrator of children's books, died Monday at h
Dr. Edward L. Ruhe, a professor of English literature at the University of Kansas who specialized in studies of John Milton, Samuel Johnson, James Agee and films, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Lawrence, Kan. He was 66 years old. Dr. Edward L. Ruhe, a professo
The Academy Award winning director Franklin James Schaffner, whose 1970 film ''Patton'' won seven Oscars including best picture, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 69 years old. The Academy Award winning director Franklin James Schaffner, whose
Whether Andrei Andreyevich Gromyko was a principal architect of the policies he expounded over nearly three decades as Soviet Foreign Minister, or simply their loyal executor, remains a mystery shrouded in his loyalty to the cause he served so long. Whether Andrei Andreyevich 
Gary Hendler, a tax lawyer for entertainers who became head of Tri-Star Pictures and then an independent film producer, died of cancer Thursday. He was 50 years old. Gary Hendler, a tax lawyer for entertainers who became head of Tri-Star Pictures and then an independent film p
Andrei A. Gromyko, the former Foreign Minister whose enigmatic scowl was the face of Soviet foreign policy for most of the postwar period, died on Sunday, two weeks short of his 80th birthday. Andrei A. Gromyko, the former Foreign Minister whose enigmatic scowl was the face of
James A. Linen 4th, executive vice president of Media General Inc. and head of the Richmond-based company's broadcast operations, died Sunday at Westminster Hospital in London. He was 51 years old and died from injuries suffered in a jogging accident. James A. Linen 4th, execu
Jim Backus, the beetle-browed actor whose booming voice gave life to the nearsighted cartoon character of ''Mr. Magoo'' and the self-indulgent, ascot-wearing millionaire of ''Gilligan's Island,'' died of pneumonia yesterday in St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Cal
L. Bancel La Farge, an architect, president of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects from 1958 to 1960 and a founding member of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, died Sunday at his home in Pennswood Village in Newtown, Pa. He was 89 years old.
Edgar Mills, a retired associate professor of German at Seton Hall University who served for 35 years as a cantor of Congregation Oheb Shalom in Newark and South Orange, N.J., died of heart failure Sunday at his home in Hillside, N.J. He was 78 years old. Edgar Mills, a retire
Jean Leguay, a former French police official during the Nazi occupation who was charged with committing crimes against humanity, has died in a Paris hospital after a year-long battle with liver cancer, his lawyer said today. He was 79 years old. Jean Leguay, a former French po
Mahn Win Maung, the last President of a democratically elected government of this country, formerly Burma, died today after a long illness, a family spokesman said. He was 73 years old. Mahn Win Maung, the last President of a democratically elected government of this country, 
Raymond Ziegler Fahs Jr., a vice president of the Stone & Webster Securities Corporation, now Stone & Webster Inc., investment bankers, died of an asthma attack Monday en route to Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. Raymond Ziegler Fahs Jr.,
Robert Goelet Jr., a motion picture producer and heir to a fortune, died of a heart attack June 28 at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 68 years old. Mr. Goelet, who spent much of his life abroad, was a principal in two film-producing companies, Voyagers Inc. and
Samuel Himmell, founder and chairman of the Baldwin Paper Company, died of heart failure Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan. Samuel Himmell, founder and chairman of the Baldwin Paper Company, died of heart failure Monday at St. Vincent
Alfredo Ortiz-Murias, a financial adviser and president of Casita Maria Inc., a settlement house in the South Bronx, died yesterday in Auxilio Mutuo Hospital in San Juan, P.R. He was 39 years old. A spokesman for Mr. Ortiz-Muria's family, Budd Calisch, said he died of liver cancer.   
George E. Shibley, a lawyer who represented Sirhan Sirhan in appeals of his conviction for the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy, died Tuesday. Mr. Shibley, 79 years old, died at Good Samaritan Hospital, where he had undergone heart surgery June 8. George E. Shibley, a lawyer
Herschel Lewis Roman, a geneticist whose work led to the widespread use of yeast in genetic research, died of a stroke Sunday at Swedish Hospital in Seattle. He was 74 years old. Herschel Lewis Roman, a geneticist whose work led to the widespread use of yeast in genetic resear
James C. Abbott, a former press secretary and speech writer for Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, died of AIDS-related pneumonia on June 25 at his mother's home in Scottsville, Va. He was 39 years old and lived in Washington until last fall. James C. Abbott, a former press secretar
Okey L. Patteson, a Democrat who served from 1949 to 1953 as Governor of West Virginia, died of pneumonia Monday at Raleigh General Hospital in Beckley, W.Va. He was 90 years old and lived in Mount Hope, W.Va. Okey L. Patteson, a Democrat who served from 1949 to 1953 as Govern
Wilfrid Stalker Sellars, professor of philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh, died Sunday at his home in Pittsburgh after a long illness. He was 77 years old. Wilfrid Stalker Sellars, professor of philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh, died Sunday at his home in Pitts
Dr. D. Anthony D'Esopo, a retired surgeon and professor emeritus at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, died of pneumonia Monday at Glover Memorial Hospital in Needham, Mass., where he lived. He was 91 years old and had lived in Tenafly, N.J., and Alpine, N.J. 
George E. Shibley, a lawyer who represented Sirhan Sirhan in appeals of his conviction for the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy, died Tuesday. Mr. Shibley, 79 years old, died at Good Samaritan Hospital, where he had undergone heart surgery June 8. George E. Shibley, a lawyer
Guillermo Belt, a former Cuban Amb-assador to the United States and a signer of the Charter of the United Nations, died Sunday at Arlington Hospital of complications after surgery for an intestinal blockage. He was 83 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Guillermo Belt, a form
Harry A. Grossman, a lawyer who was a founder of Daytop Village, the narcotics treatment program, died of a heart attack on Sunday in Quogue, L.I., where he was on a family visit. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Harry A. Grossman, a lawyer who was a founder of Dayt
Janos Kadar, who rose to power in Hungary as the Soviet Army crushed the 1956 uprising and who gradually won a measure of acceptance by softening Communist dogma and presiding over a prosperity and tolerance unusual in Eastern Europe, died yesterday in Budapest. He was 77 years old.  
Dr. Benjamin Dean Merritt, emeritus professor of Greek epigraphy at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J., died yesterday at his home in Austin, Texas. He was 90 years old. Dr. Benjamin Dean Merritt, emeritus professor of Greek epigraphy at the Institute for Advanc
Jack Rubenstein, a labor-union official who led efforts to organize textile workers in the 1920's and later became a vice president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., died of a brain tumor Wednesday in Margate, Fla., where he lived. He was 81 years old and a former Bronx resident.  
John W. McCoy, an artist who specialized in landscapes of Pennsylvania and Maine, died after a long illness Thursday at Friends Hall nursing home in West Chester, Pa. He was 79 years old and lived in Chadds Ford, Pa. John W. McCoy, an artist who specialized in landscapes of Pe
Nelson K. Mintz, a retired judge of the Appellate Division of the New Jersey Superior Court, died of cancer Wednesday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 81 years old and lived in Verona, N.J. Nelson K. Mintz, a retired judge of the Appellate Division of 
Vic Perrin, an actor and announcer on many radio and television shows, died of cancer Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He was 73 years old. Vic Perrin, an actor and announcer on many radio and television shows, died of cancer Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He w
William F. Tompkins, who as an Assistant Attorney General headed the Justice Department's new internal security division during the Eisenhower Administration, died of a heart attack Thursday at the Mid-Ocean Club in Bermuda, where he was vacationing. He was 76 years old and lived in M
Donald S. Voorhees, who as a Federal district judge in Seattle issued a major decision favoring Japanese-Americans who had been interned by the Government during World War II, died Friday at the Hospice Northwest in Seattle. He was 72 years old. Donald S. Voorhees, who as a Fe
Chief Edison P. Mt. Pleasant Jr., widely recognized as the leader of the Tuscarora Nation, died Friday in Mount St. Mary's Hospital here after a brief illness. He was 70 years old. Chief Edison P. Mt. Pleasant Jr., widely recognized as the leader of the Tuscarora Nation, died 
Elliott M. Sanger, the co-founder and longtime chief of WQXR, the pioneer classical music radio station that became the station of The New York Times in 1944, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 92 years old.  Mr. Sanger founded the station in 1936 wit
Albert A. Lawrence, a retired Coast Guard captain who was a professor and dean for 23 years at the United States Coast Guard Academy, in New London, Conn., died Saturday at Florida Keys Memorial Hospital in Key West, Fla. He was 84 years old. Albert A. Lawrence, a retired Coas
Christian E. Albert, a marketing executive at Schieffelin & Somerset Company, liquor importers of Manhattan, died of cancer of the stomach July 1 at his mother's home in Quogue, L.I. He was 46 years old and lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y. Christian E. Albert, a marketing executive
Drew Eberson, an architect who designed and renovated many motion-picture theaters in the United States and abroad, died of pneumonia on Saturday at the Bloomfield (Conn.) Convalescent Center. He was 85 years old and lived in Stamford. Drew Eberson, an architect who designed a
Isaia Rankin, a New York designer known professionally as Isaia, died on June 28th at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 35 years old. Isaia Rankin, a New York designer known professionally as Isaia, died on June 28th at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 35 years old. The designer 
Joseph E. Corr, Jr., an advertising executive, former magazine publisher and cartoonist, died of heart failure Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joseph E. Corr, Jr., an advertising executive, former magazine publisher and cartoonist, di
Mel Blanc, the versatile, multi-voiced actor who breathed life into such cartoon characters as Bugs Bunny, Woody Woodpecker, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig, Tweety Pie, Sylvester and the Road Runner, died of heart disease and emphysema yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. H
Christian E. Albert, a marketing executive at Schieffelin & Somerset Company, liquor importers of Manhattan, died of cancer of the stomach July 1 at his mother's home in Quogue, L.I. He was 46 years old and lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y. Christian E. Albert, a marketing executive
Earl L. Sydnor, an actor, died of lung cancer on Sunday. He was 81 years old and lived in New York City. Earl L. Sydnor, an actor, died of lung cancer on Sunday. He was 81 years old and lived in New York City. Mr. Sydnor made his stage debut with the Works Progress Adm
J. Bruno Benziger, co-founder of the Glen Ellen Winery in California, died of heart failure on Monday at his farmhouse in Glen Ellen, the Sonoma County town for which the winery is named. He was 64 years old. J. Bruno Benziger, co-founder of the Glen Ellen Winery in California
Laurence Olivier, hailed as one of the greatest classical stage actors of his time, died yesterday at his home near London. He was 82 years old. Laurence Olivier, hailed as one of the greatest classical stage actors of his time, died yesterday at his home near London. He was 8
William S. Maxwell, a career Navy officer who led a campaign against air pollution in New York after retiring as a rear admiral, died of a heart ailment on Monday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 89 years old and lived in the Midwood neighborhood. Wil
Benjamin B. Rubinstein, a psychiatrist and psychoanalytical theorist, died of cancer yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. Benjamin B. Rubinstein, a psychiatrist and psychoanalytical theorist, died of cancer yesterday at New York Hospital.
Frederick Haviland, the executive vice president of Haviland China Inc., died of cancer Sunday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mt. Kisco, N.Y. He was 77 years old and lived in Somers, N.Y. Frederick Haviland, the executive vice president of Haviland China Inc., died of can
Laurence Curtis, a Republican who served five terms in the House of Representatives, died Tuesday at Brigham and Women's Hospital. He was 95 years old, Mr. Curtis also served one term as Massachusetts Treasurer, three terms as a State Senator, two as a State Representative and two as 
Dr. Max Zuger, a retired psychiatrist, died June 30 at Hillhaven Convalescent Center in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 86 years old. Dr. Max Zuger, a retired psychiatrist, died June 30 at Hillhaven Convalescent Center in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 86 years 
O. Robert Gibbons, a mergers and acquisitions consultant for Midlantic National Bank in Edison, N.J., died of cancer Monday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan and Washington, Conn., with his longtime companion, Vincent J. M
Paul A. Salomone, a retired retail executive, died of cancer Tuesday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 67 years old and lived in South Orange, N.J. Paul A. Salomone, a retired retail executive, died of cancer Tuesday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Li
Tommy Tucker, a big-band leader of the 1940's, died Tuesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Sarasota. Tommy Tucker, a big-band leader of the 1940's, died Tuesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Sarasota. Mr. Tucker and his orchestra recorded hundreds of records and
Sidney Hook, a major American philosopher who wrote many books on Marxism, public policy and education, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at Stanford University Hospital in Stanford, Calif. He was 86 years old and lived on the university campus. Sidney Hook, a major A
Sinclair Hatch, a retired partner in the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, died after a heart attack yesterday at his home in Oyster Bay, L.I. He was 82 years old and also had a home in Setauket, L.I. Sinclair Hatch, a retired partner in the law firm of Milbank, Twe
Dwight P. Robinson Jr., retired chairman of the Massachusetts Investors Trust, the country's oldest mutual fund, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Wareham, Mass., while traveling to his home in Brookline. He was 89 years old. Dwight P. Robinson Jr., retired chairman of the M
G. Derwood Baker, professor emeritus of educational administration at New York University, died of a heart attack on July 7 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 89 years old. G. Derwood Baker, professor emeritus of educational administration at New York University, died of 
H. Mason Hicks, a physician and former chief of medicine at Doctors Hospital, died there of cardiac arrest Thursday. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. H. Mason Hicks, a physician and former chief of medicine at Doctors Hospital, died there of cardiac arrest Thursday.
Irb H. Fooshee, a chemical engineer who retired in 1971 as an executive vice president of the Allied Chemical Corporation, died of prostate cancer Tuesday at Hilton Head Island, S.C., where he had lived since last year. He was 80 years old and had previously lived in Austin, Tex.     
Lev N. Tolkunov, who was twice chief editor of the Government newspaper Izvestia, has died, the Soviet press agency Tass reported today. He was 70 years old. Lev N. Tolkunov, who was twice chief editor of the Government newspaper Izvestia, has died, the Soviet press agency Tas
Argentina's new Economy Minister, Miguel Roig, died of a heart attack today, less than a week after taking on the task of restoring Argentina's crumbling economy. He was 68 years old. Argentina's new Economy Minister, Miguel Roig, died of a heart attack today, less than a week
Robert C. Hoag, a leader of the Seneca Nation of Indians in western New York State, died after a long illness yesterday in Salamanca, N.Y., where he lived. He was 53 years old. Mr. Hoag was a lifelong resident of Salamanca, which lies largely within the Senecas' 22,000-acre Allegany R
William H. Fetridge, an editor, business executive and Republican Party official, died of pneumonia Thursday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 82 years old and lived in Chicago. William H. Fetridge, an editor, business executive and Republican Party official
William T. Bandy, a retired professor of French at Vanderbilt University and a scholar who preserved the works of the poet Charles Baudelaire, died July 6 after a stroke at his summer home in Wayne, Me. He was 86 years old and lived in Nashville. William T. Bandy, a retired pr
Nesuhi Ertegun, who helped make Atlantic Records an important label for rhythm and blues and jazz, died yesterday from complications following cancer surgery at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan, Katonah, N.Y., and Biot, France. Nesuhi 
Richard L. Gerloff, an executive vice president of the American Savings Bank and president of its Westchester community lending division, died Friday at White Plains Medical Center. He was taken there two weeks earlier after suffering a stroke. He was 53 years old and lived in Scarsda
Teiichi Suzuki, a former army general who helped plan Japan's economy in World War II and later was imprisoned as a war criminal, died of heart failure today, his family said. He was 100 years old. Teiichi Suzuki, a former army general who helped plan Japan's economy in World 
Former Gov. John N. Dempsey, a liberal Democrat who helped foster Connecticut's reputation in the 1960's as a national trend-setter in social and environmental laws, died of lung cancer today at his home in Killingly, Conn. He was 74 years old. Former Gov. John N. Dempsey, a l
Herbert von Karajan, probably the world's best-known conductor and one of the most powerful figures in classical music, died yesterday at his home in Anif, in the Austrian Alps. An aide reported that he suffered a heart attack in the early afternoon, and died before a rescue helicopte
Alan M. Cohn, a professor of English and the humanities librarian at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, died of lung cancer Saturday at the Jackson County Nursing Home in Murphysboro, Ill. He was 63 years old and lived in Carbondale. Alan M. Cohn, a professor of Engli
Soviet radars may see it as a blip no bigger than a bird, but to the wondering human eye it resembles a gigantic black bat. The B-2 bomber's two-hour maiden flight yesterday establishes the improbable fact that it flies. But it still falls far short of proving that the plane is worth 
Dr. Louis J. Gilbert, a psychoanalyst who was a trustee of the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute, died of renal disease Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Louis J. Gilbert, a psychoanalyst who was a trustee of the William 
Elmer F. Bennett, a retired Washington lawyer who was a former Under Secretary of the Interior, died of congestive heart failure July 10 at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 71 years old and lived in East Hills, L.I. Elmer F. Bennett, a retired Washington lawyer who 
Frank Mullen, a retired chairman of the Greater New York Savings Bank, died of heart failure Sunday in West Palm Beach, Fla., where he lived in retirement. He was 90 years old and had lived in Bellerose, Queens, and Syosset, L.I. Frank Mullen, a retired chairman of the Greater
Gordon Crawford Kinney, a retired senior vice president of the Advertising Council Inc., died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in White Plains. He was 70 years old. Gordon Crawford Kinney, a retired senior vice president of the Advertising Council Inc., died of a heart a
Jacques Marsal, who as a boy discovered the prehistoric paintings of the Lascaux cave with three friends and became the cave's guardian for life, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 63 years old. Jacques Marsal, who as a boy discovered the prehistoric paintings of the L
James P. McAllister, a retired tugboat and transportation executive, died of a stroke Sunday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan and Port Jefferson, L.I. James P. McAllister, a retired tugboat and transportation executive, died
Means Johnston Jr., a retired Navy admiral who commanded the forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in southern Europe from 1973 to 1975, died of prostate cancer Friday at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington. He was 71 years old and lived in McLean, Va. Means Joh
Nicolas Guillen, who was known as Cuba's national poet, died Sunday after a long illness, according to the official Cuban press agency, Prensa Latina. He was 87 years old and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease. Nicolas Guillen, who was known as Cuba's national poet, d
What began 14 years ago as a narrowly economic summit meeting was leavened this year by politics - to everyone's benefit. Indeed, this time the seven leaders glossed over the economic issues that divide them. But they found new direction and common purpose on broader issues, most nota
Thatcher C. Jones, a securities analyst and retired professor emeritus of finance at New York University, died Saturday in Salt Lake City, where he lived. He was 100 years old. Thatcher C. Jones, a securities analyst and retired professor emeritus of finance at New York Univer
Alfred Parker, retired executive director of the Tax Foundation, a research and education group in Washington, died of a heart attack on Saturday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 81 years old. Alfred Parker, retired executive director of the Tax Foundation, a research and
Cyril E. Black, a history professor who was a member of the Princeton University faculty for 50 years, died of congestive heart failure yesterday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Princeton. Cyril E. Black, a history professor who was a m
Cyril Simon, a theater director, died of a heart attack on Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 68 years old. Cyril Simon, a theater director, died of a heart attack on Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 68 years old. Among
Rabbi Gunter Hirschberg, the spiritual leader of one of America's leading Reform Congregations, Temple Rodeph Sholom in Manhattan, and president of the New York Board of Rabbis, died of cancer yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and live
Michele Molese, a tenor who sang leading roles for nearly two decades with the New York City Opera, died on July 5 in Broni, Italy, after suffering a heart attack. He was 60 years old and had lived in Broni since his recent retirement from singing. Michele Molese, a tenor who 
Will Bradley, a trombonist and band leader who composed and performed the boogie-woogie big-band hits ''Beat Me, Daddy, Eight to the Bar'' and ''Scrub Me, Mama, With a Boogie Beat,'' died Saturday. He was 78 years old. Will Bradley, a trombonist and band leader who composed an
Dr. Stephen R. Preblud, a leading epidemiologist at the Federal Centers for Disease Control, died at Emory University Hospital on Sunday because of complications from a bone marrow transplant in February. He was 40 years old and lived in Atlanta. Dr. Stephen R. Preblud, a lead
Fred W. Lyon, a former vice president of news pictures for United Press International, died of pneumonia Monday after brain surgery at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 60 years old and lived in Montrose, N.Y. Fred W. Lyon, a former vice presiden
Herman D. Bragin, a lawyer for 49 years and a supporter of Jewish causes, died Tuesday at the Parker Geriatrics Institute in Queens. He was 83 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. Herman D. Bragin, a lawyer for 49 years and a supporter of Jewish causes, died Tuesday at the 
Howard B. Sohn, a founding partner of the Manhattan law firm of Squadron, Ellenoff, Plesent & Lehrer, died yesterday after heart surgery at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 52 years old and lived in East Northport, L.I. Howard B. Sohn, a founding partner of the Manhattan
James F. Corrigan 2d, an aviator, died of cancer Monday at Jess Parish Memorial Hospital in Titusville, Fla. He was 84 years old and lived in Titusville. James F. Corrigan 2d, an aviator, died of cancer Monday at Jess Parish Memorial Hospital in Titusville, Fla. He was 84 year
Max Edelman, a lawyer specializing in insurance matters, died of cancer Tuesday at St. John's-Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. He was 82 years old and lived in White Plains. Max Edelman, a lawyer specializing in insurance matters, died of cancer Tuesday at St. John's-Riverside H
Walter Karp, a writer specializing in United States political history, died yesterday morning in the Roosevelt Hospital Division of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, said Cathy Rohan, a hospital spokeswoman. He was 55 years old and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.       
Benjamin Tammuz, a Russian-born Israeli author, sculptor and advocate of Jewish-Arab coexistence, died of cancer Wednesday. He was 70 years old. Benjamin Tammuz, a Russian-born Israeli author, sculptor and advocate of Jewish-Arab coexistence, died of cancer Wednesday. He was 7
Elliot W. Dann, a New York real-estate developer, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57 years old. Elliot W. Dann, a New York real-estate developer, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,
Dr. F. Howard Westcott, a physician in Manhattan for 36 years, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in San Diego. He was 86 years old. Dr. F. Howard Westcott, a physician in Manhattan for 36 years, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in San Diego. He was 86 years old.        
Francis X. Cucci, a television, theater and screen writer, died of AIDS on July 1 in the Cabrini Medical Center Hospice in Manhattan. He was 54 years old and lived in Brooklyn Heights. Francis X. Cucci, a television, theater and screen writer, died of AIDS on July 1 in the Cab
George A. Koopman, an enterpreneur in space technology who founded the American Rocket Company, was killed in an automobile accident Wednesday in Lancaster, Calif. He was 44 years old and lived in Malibu, Calif. George A. Koopman, an enterpreneur in space technology who founde
Msgr. Owen J. Scanlon, a Roman Catholic priest in the Archdiocese of New York for 53 years, died Tuesday at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 years old and lived in Yonkers. Msgr. Owen J. Scanlon, a Roman Catholic priest in the Archdiocese of New York for 53 years,
Ralph B. Henderson, a retired execu-tive vice president of the J. C. Penney Company, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Bedminster, N.J. Ralph B. Henderson, a retired execu-tive vice president 
Bernard J. O'Keefe, co-founder and former chairman and chief executive of EG&G,Inc., manufacturers of high-technology equipment for the military and industries, died Thursday at his home in Wayland, Mass., after a brief illness. He was 69 years old. Bernard J. O'Keefe, co-foun
John Henry Hogan, who as Brother Andrew was a member of the order of the Brothers of the Christian Schools for 74 years, died Thursday at De La Salle Hall in Lincroft, N.J., after a long illness. He was 89 years old and lived in Lincroft. John Henry Hogan, who as Brother Andre
Frank David Campion, a former executive with the American Medical Association, died of cancer of the larynx Thursday at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 67 years old. Mr. Campion, a 1943 alumnus of Yale University, wrote for Life magazine, serving as bureau chief in Chicago and Los A
Hanan C. Selvin, an educator, sociologist and statistician, died of lung cancer Thursday at his home in Fair Lawn, N.J. He was 67 years old. Hanan C. Selvin, an educator, sociologist and statistician, died of lung cancer Thursday at his home in Fair Lawn, N.J. He was 67 years 
Harry Worth, a comedian who had his own popular BBC television series in the 1960's, died of cancer on Thursday. He was 71 years old. Harry Worth, a comedian who had his own popular BBC television series in the 1960's, died of cancer on Thursday. He was 71 years old. M
James M. Collins, a former member of the House of Representatives from Texas and a Republican conservative who helped to break a Democratic grip on his state, died of complications of pulmonary fibrosis yesterday at Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas. He was 73 years old and lived i
Maurice Seiderman, a makeup artist and inventor whose craftsmanship aged Orson Welles in ''Citizen Kane'' and whose inventions included a formula for soft contact lenses, died of heart disease Tuesday in Port Angeles, Wash. He was 82 years old and lived in Sequim, Wash. Mauric
Nigel Forbes Dennis, a British novelist, playwright and book and drama critic whose reviews were frequently published on both sides of the Atlantic, died Wednesday after a long illness, the Associated Press reported from London. He was 77 years old and lived in London. Nigel F
Woodrow T. Lewis, a New York State Assemblyman from Brooklyn for a decade, died of congestive heart failure Tuesday at Interfaith Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 72 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Woodrow T. Lewis, a New York State Assemblyman from Brooklyn for a decade, d
Forrest H. Anderson, who in one term as Governor of Montana helped bring sweeping changes to the state's governmental system, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound Thursday at his home here. He was 76 years old and had been in failing health for years. Forrest H. Anderson, wh
Donald Barthelme, a short story writer and novelist whose minimalist style placed him among the leading innovative writers of modern fiction, died of cancer yesterday in Houston at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan and Hou
Frank Thompson Jr., a former New Jersey Representative who was one of the most influential Democrats in Congress before the Abscam scandal ended his 26-year House career, died Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, two days after undergoing surgery for throat cancer there.  
Hank Greenspun, the publisher of The Las Vegas Sun, who regularly voiced his strong opinions in a front-page column called ''Where I Stand,'' died of cancer Saturday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 79 years old. Hank Greenspun, the publisher of The Las Vegas Sun, who regularl
Martti Talvela, a Finnish bass who appeared regularly at the Metropolitan Opera and was the director-designate of the Finnish National Opera, died on Saturday after suffering a heart attack at his daughter's wedding on his farm in Juva, Finland. He was 54 years old. Martti Tal
Count Aurelio Baldeschi-Balleani, an Italian nobleman who was the oldest living Knight of Malta, died July 16 after a brief illness in Iesi, Italy, where he lived. He was 85 years old. Count Aurelio Baldeschi-Balleani, an Italian nobleman who was the oldest living Knight of Ma
Claude Harmon, a former Masters champion who taught golf to four United States Presidents, died Sunday, apparently of heart failure, after undergoing heart surgery last Wednesday. He was 73 years old. Claude Harmon, a former Masters champion who taught golf to four United Stat
Dr. Charles A. Weymuller, a pediatrician and professor at the former Long Island College of Medicine for several decades, died in his sleep Saturday at his home in Albuquerque, N.M., where he lived in retirement. He was 92 years old. Dr. Charles A. Weymuller, a pediatrician an
Brig. Gen. Ensley M. Llewellyn, a founder of the World War II military newspaper Stars and Stripes and a member of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's staff in the war, died Wednesday of heart disease in a doctor's office in Tacoma, Wash., where he was having a checkup. He was 83 years old an
Harold B. Gessner, a footwear manufacturer who also headed several shoe-industry associations, died of prostate cancer on Sunday in New York Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Harold B. Gessner, a footwear manufacturer who also headed several shoe-industry a
James J. O'Connor, an electrical engineer who was editor in chief of Power Magazine when he retired in 1980 after 37 years with the publication, died of heart failure Saturday at his home on Hilton Head Island, S.C. He was 71 years old. James J. O'Connor, an electrical enginee
Sudhir Sen, an economist who specialized in agricultural development and rural electrification in India and on behalf of the United Nations, died of a heart attack on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old. Sudhir Sen, an economist who specialized in agricultur
Valentine Bargmann, a mathematical physicist who was an assistant to Albert Einstein at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., died of heart failure Friday at the Princeton Medical Center. He was 81 years old and lived in Princeton. Valentine Bargmann, a mathemat
William T. Whisner Jr., who shot down 21 enemy planes as a United States fighter ace in World War II and the Korean War, died of complications from a yellow jacket sting last Friday in Alexandria, La. He was 65 years old. William T. Whisner Jr., who shot down 21 enemy planes a
Albert Chin, a Long Island restaurateur, died after a stroke on Sunday at Booth Memorial Hospital in Queens. He was 64 years old and lived in Jamaica, Queens. Albert Chin, a Long Island restaurateur, died after a stroke on Sunday at Booth Memorial Hospital in Queens. He was 64
Harry Rosenthal, a prominent Zionist who was a sporting goods merchant, died Monday after a short illness in the United Hospital in St. Paul, where he lived. He was 92 years old. Harry Rosenthal, a prominent Zionist who was a sporting goods merchant, died Monday after a short 
John M. Driscoll, former chief mechanical engineer of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, died of cardiac arrest Monday at his home in Oradell, N.J. He was 85 years old. John M. Driscoll, former chief mechanical engineer of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Robert J. Mullens, a retired municipal-bond specialist and a community leader on Staten Island, died of a brain tumor on Monday at the St. Vincent's Medical Center on Staten Island. He was 66 years old. Robert J. Mullens, a retired municipal-bond specialist and a community lea
Dr. Samuel Stone, a pediatrician in Manhattan for more than half a century, died of complications of intestinal surgery yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Samuel Stone, a pediatrician in Manhattan for m
Emil White, a writer, a publisher and an artist who was known for his paintings of the Big Sur coast of California, died last Thursday at his home here. He was 88 years old. Emil White, a writer, a publisher and an artist who was known for his paintings of the Big Sur coast of
Dr. George Kupchik, an environmental engineer who retired as dean of the School of Health Sciences at Hunter College, died of lung cancer yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. George Kupchik, an environmental engineer who r
John C. Murphy, a lawyer and a vice president at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, died of pneumonia yesterday at Community Hospital in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 60 years old and lived in Ardsley, N.Y. John C. Murphy, a lawyer and a vice president at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets,
Louis A. Siegel, a corporate lawyer and business executive, died of congenital heart disease Tuesday at Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 75 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Stockbridge, Mass. Louis A. Siegel, a corporate lawyer and business executiv
Peter Dvarackas, a writer and editor who was one of the early publicists dealing with AIDS, died of the disease on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 42 years old. Mr. Dvarackas, who contracted AIDS eight years ago, wrote a column dealing with holistic and natural remedies for Pe
Dr. Robert S. Laufer, a sociologist whose studies of the effects of combat and of captivity led to the development of counseling programs for veterans of the Vietnam War, died of leukemia Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 47 years old and lived in 
Steve Rubell, the flamboyant co-founder of the Studio 54 discotheque who rebounded from a tax-evasion conviction to operate trendy Manhattan hotels, died Tuesday night at the Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I. Steve Rub
Judge Burton J. Jacobson, who was credited with streamlining civil-court procedures in Connecticut, died of amyloidosis on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Medical Center. He was 60 years old and lived in Fairfield, Conn. Judge Burton J. Jacobson, who was credited with streamlining 
Daniel Rhodes, a sculptor in ceramics and pottery who taught and wrote on the subject, died of a heart attack Sunday at Washoe Medical Center in Reno, Nev. He was 78 years old and lived in Swanton, Calif. Daniel Rhodes, a sculptor in ceramics and pottery who taught and wrote o
John Ward Studebaker, a former United States Commissioner of Education, died Wednesday at Rossmoor Manor Convalescent Hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 102 years old. John Ward Studebaker, a former United States Commissioner of Education, died Wednesday at Rossmoor Manor
Louis A. Siegel, a corporate lawyer and business executive, died of congenital heart disease Tuesday at Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 75 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Stockbridge, Mass. Louis A. Siegel, a corporate lawyer and business executiv
Dr. Max Hamburgh, a biologist and educator, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Max Hamburgh, a biologist and educator, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at Co
Paul C. Mangelsdorf, a botanist whose cross-breeding of corn and other grains earned him a world reputation, died in his sleep Saturday at the Carol Woods Retirement Community in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he lived. He had celebrated his 90th birthday two days earlier. Paul C. M
Warren S. Tryon, professor of history at Boston University for two decades before his retirement in 1967, died of liver cancer July 13 at Addison Gilbert Hospital in Gloucester, Mass. He was 87 years old and lived in Rockport, Mass. Warren S. Tryon, professor of history at Bos
Albert H. Corbin, an actor and puppeteer for more than 35 years, died of prostate cancer Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. Albert H. Corbin, an actor and puppeteer for more than 35 years, died of prostate cancer Thursday at Bet
Francis J. Purcell, a lawyer who served as New York regional administrator of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the mid-1950's, died of heart failure Thursday at his summer home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 77 years old and lived in Stratford, Conn. Francis J. Purcell, a
Henry Tannenbaum, a restaurateur, died Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan. Henry Tannenbaum, a restaurateur, died Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Tan
Howard S. Levin, an investor who founded the Levin-Townsend Computer Corporation, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65 years old. Howard S. Levin, an investor who founded the Levin-Townsend Com
Sol E. Kalvert, a businessman and exporter, died July 19 at Nyack (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. Sol E. Kalvert, a businessman and exporter, died July 19 at Nyack (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kalvert was
Wilbur W. McEachern, a banker in the Southeast for more than half a century, died of pulmonary and heart disease Thursday at St. Francis Hospital in Greenville, S.C. He was 84 years old and lived in Greenville. Wilbur W. McEachern, a banker in the Southeast for more than half 
Willard Sektberg, a pianist, organist and vocal coach who accompanied Metropolitan Opera singers, including Leonard Warren, Richard Crooks, Cesare Valletti and Mattiwilde Dobbs, died at Crosslands, Kennett Square in Pennsylvania on Friday. He was 87 years old and, before his retiremen
James B. Ramsey Jr., a financial consultant to the Small Business Administration in New York, died of a respiratory illness Saturday at the Carteret General Hospital in Morehead City, N.C., near his vacation home. He was 66 years and also lived in Wyckoff, N.J. James B. Ramsey
Dr. Kurt Lange, a professor emeritus of pediatrics and medicine at the New York Medical College and a consulting physician at Lenox Hill Hospital, died of heart disease Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old. Dr. Kurt Lange, a professor emeritus of pediatrics a
