 Reginald Ely Zelnik, a historian who focused on Russian labor and social studies, died May 17 in an accident at the University of California, Berkeley. He was 68. He was killed when a delivery truck accidentally backed into him as he was walking on campus, the university said.      
 William Manchester, a biographer who used his novelist's eye to fashion meticulously researched portraits of power, among them Gen. Douglas MacArthur, Winston Churchill and, perhaps most famously, John F. Kennedy, died yesterday at his home in Middletown, Conn. He was 82. His death 
 Nicolai Ghiaurov, the Bulgarian bass who was one of the leading opera singers of his day, died yesterday in Modena, Italy. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, said Jack Mastroianni, his American representative. He had been hospitalized because of a kidney disease. His wi
 Frank Newman, the former president of the Education Commission of the States, who helped to shape state education policy in the 1980's and 1990's and prodded colleges and universities to respond to a rapidly changing society, died on Saturday in Providence, R.I. He was 77 and lived in James
 Dr. Charles D. Kelman, an ophthalmologist who had an epiphany in a dentist's chair four decades ago that led to a radically simpler way for eye surgeons to remove cataracts, died Tuesday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 74. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Before Dr. Ke
 Steve Lacy, an American soprano saxophonist who spent more than half of his 50-year career living in Europe and helped legitimize his instrument in postwar jazz, died yesterday in Boston. He was 69. The cause was cancer, according to an announcement from the New England Conservatory
 Victor Reuther, the last of three brothers who helped unionize Detroit amid the labor strife of the 1930's and remained central to the growth of industrial unionism for the next third of the century, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 92. His death was announced by his family an
 Ronald Wilson Reagan, a former film star who became America's 40th president, the oldest to enter the White House but imbued with a youthful optimism rooted in the traditional virtues of a bygone era, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93. To a nation hungry for a her
 Francis Brunn, who cared little that he was often described as one of the half-dozen best jugglers of the 20th century, because his art, he said, transcended mere juggling, died on May 28 at a hospital in Frankfurt, Germany. He was 81. The cause was complications of heart surgery, s
 Jiri Weiss, a central figure of Czechoslovakia's postwar cinema, died on April 9 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91 and had lived for the last two decades in Los Angeles. His death was announced by his wife, Katerina Weiss. Mr. Weiss wrote and directed more than 20 feature fi
 Morton Cooper Feinberg, who used an aggressive and unorthodox marketing campaign to triumph over mixed reviews and sell more than three million copies of his sensational novel about an Italian-American singer, died on May 18 in Stamford, Conn.. He was 79. The cause was a complicatio
 Alexander F. Skutch, a field naturalist and author who wrote early descriptions of Central America's tropical birds, died on May 12 at his home in Costa Rica. He was 99, said Dana Gardner, a close friend and an illustrator of some of his books. Dr. Skutch, who was born in Ma
 M. Searle Wright, a composer, teacher and master of both classic and theater pipe organ, died on Thursday in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 86. His death was announced by his lawyer, Kent Tanner. Mr. Wright, director of chapel music at St. Paul's Chapel at Columbia University from 
 James Michael Roche, a former chairman and chief executive of General Motors, died on Sunday at his home in Belleair, Fla. He was 97. His death was announced by the company at its headquarters in Detroit. Mr. Roche, who started his 44-year career in the auto industry as a st
 Robert Quine, a noted guitarist of the New York rock scene of the 1970's and 80's who played with Richard Hell, Lou Reed and others, died last week in his home in Manhattan. He was 61. He was found dead by the police on Saturday, said James Marshall, a friend. The police found a not
 Edmund M. DiGiulio, an influential force in motion picture technology who won several Academy Awards for his innovations in cinematography, died on Friday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 76. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. DiGiulio (pronounc
 Morris U. Schappes, who as a scholar, editor and activist strove to combine his Marxist politics with a passion for Jewish history that was kindled when he was in prison, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97. His death was announced by Carol Jochnowitz, an editor of 
 Ladislav Hecht, once the captain of Czechoslovakia's Davis Cup team and perhaps the best tennis player on the European continent immediately before World War II, died May 27 at home in Kew Gardens, Queens. He was 94. His death was announced by a grandson, Nikos Hecht, who said his g
 Jonathan Kramer, a composer and musical theorist, died on June 3 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Deborah Bradley. Mr. Kramer, a professor of composition and theory at Columbia University, wrote eclectic music 
 Ray Charles, the piano man with the bluesy voice who reshaped American music for a half-century, bringing the essence of soul to country, jazz, rock, standards and every other style of music he touched, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 73. Mr. Charles under
 Roosevelt Brown, the Hall of Fame offensive tackle who spent the last 51 years with the Giants as a player, an assistant coach and a scout, died Wednesday at his home in Columbus, N.J. He was 71. He apparently had a heart attack while gardening, his wife, Linda, said. In 195
 Eugene Raskin, a folk singer and architectural scholar who wrote the unusual 1968 hit ''Those Were the Days,'' died on Monday at his home in Manhattan, his son Michael said. He was 94. Mr. Raskin, who performed with his wife, Francesca, as Gene & Francesca, wrote the lyrics and musi
 Gary Stevens, a retired New York broadcast executive and celebrity publicist, died on May 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was a heart attack, said his former wife, Naura Hayden. Mr. Stevens, who got his start at 16 while in high school as a scriptwriter for
 Harvey Brooks, a physicist and administrator at Harvard who studied and helped shape national science policies involving energy, the military and the environment, died May 28 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88. The cause was complications from congestive heart failure, said a
 John R. T. Davies, an audio engineer known for his expertise in improving the sound of reissued vintage jazz recordings, died on May 25 at his home in Burnham, Buckinghamshire, England. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his wife, Susan, said. Using a variety of techniques, ma
 Raymond M. Clausen Jr., a helicopter crewman in the Vietnam War who was awarded the Medal of Honor for rescuing fellow marines stranded in a minefield under enemy fire, died May 30 at a hospital in Dallas. Mr. Clausen, who lived in Ponchatoula, La., was 56. His death was announced b
 Richard E. Bush, who received the Medal of Honor for leading a charge up a mountain in the World War II battle for Okinawa and then falling on a hand grenade to protect fellow marines, died last Monday at his home in Waukegan, Ill. He was 79. The cause was a heart ailment, his son, 
 Gene Wood, a veteran announcer for television game shows like ''Family Feud'' and ''Password,'' died on May 21 at a hospital in Boston. He was 78 and had lived in Adamsville, R.I., after retiring in the late 1990's. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Wood, a nat
 Robert P. Sharp, a geologist who applied the lessons offered by a close study of Earth to the challenge of understanding other planets, died May 25 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92. Dr. Sharp's death was announced by the California Institute of Technology, where he had
 Whitman Knapp, a federal judge with a prosecutor's tenacity and a Wall Street pedigree who led New York City through a tumultuous two-year investigation into widespread police corruption in the early 1970's, died yesterday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan.  
 Dick Durrance, a pioneer American ski racer and a developer of ski areas like Sun Valley, Idaho, and Aspen, Colo., died Sunday at a nursing home in Carbondale, Colo. He was 89. His death was announced by his son Dick Jr. Starting in the late 1930's, Durrance won 17 United St
 Howard Solomon, the mild-mannered owner of the Cafe au Go Go nightclub in Greenwich Village who became an unlikely First Amendment crusader when he was arrested with the comedian Lenny Bruce on obscenity charges in 1964, died on June 3 at his home in Crestline, Calif. He was 75. The
 John G. McClelland, the flamboyant Canadian publisher who helped nurture the careers of several of Canada's most prominent writers, including Margaret Atwood, Alice Munro and Mordecai Richler, died on Monday at his home in Toronto. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, Elsa Frankl
 John Adam Wallace, who founded the School for International Training in Vermont, an institution that seeks to foster understanding among young people around the world through studying and working abroad, died Friday in Lebanon, N.H. He was 88 and lived in Putney, Vt. His death was a
 Robert M. Teeter, a polling expert and political consultant who helped guide the Republican Party and its presidential nominees for more than 20 years, died Sunday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 65. The cause was cancer, his son, John, said. From 1968 through 1992, M
 Jacek Kuron, who inspired and tutored generations of Poles to struggle against Communist rule, serving as the ultimately successful godfather of a resistance that coalesced around the Solidarity labor union movement, died yesterday in Warsaw. He was 70 years old and had been ill for more th
 Bernard V. Vonderschmitt, an electrical engineer who led early semiconductor research efforts and who later pioneered the business of separating chip design and manufacturing, died on June 9 at his home in Jasper, Ind., from complications from a stroke, according to a spokesman for Xilinx I
 Jackie Paris, the jazz artist who first sang the words to the Thelonious Monk standard '''Round Midnight'' near the beginning of the bebop era and performed for nearly seven decades with some of the biggest names in jazz, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.     
 Seymour Britchky, a restaurant critic whose tart, distinctive voice covered a formative period of New York dining from 1971 to 1991, died yesterday in New York. He was 73. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, the photographer Nancy Crampton. Mr. Britchky was a 41-year-old
 Bobb Schaeffer, a curator and expert on fossil fish at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City, died on June 2 at St. John's Home in Rochester. He was 90. The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Richard W. Schaeffer. In four decades with the museum, Dr. S
 Spencer Klaw, a journalist and author who helped expand the scope of The Columbia Journalism Review in the 1980's, died on June 3 at his home in West Cornwall, Conn., his family said. He was 84. Mr. Klaw, who had taught magazine writing at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism 
 James Feron, a retired foreign correspondent for The New York Times who reported from London, Jerusalem and Warsaw as well as the United Nations in a 40-year career, died June 19 at a nursing home in Pittsfield, Mass., four days short of his 76th birthday. The cause was Parkinson's 
 John C. Cheasty, who became the government's star witness after James R. Hoffa of the Teamsters union recruited him to spy on a Senate committee investigating labor racketeering in the 1950's, died June 14 in Bahama, N.C. He was 96. The cause was congestive heart failure, Mr. Cheast
 Al Lapin Jr., who started the International House of Pancakes chain by opening a family-operated restaurant with his brother, Jerry, in 1958, died last Wednesday at the U.S.C./Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said a son, Randy. Mr. Lapin, 76, 
 Bernard S. Baker, a chemical engineer whose research and entrepreneurial instincts spurred the development of large stationary fuel cells for industry, died on Monday at the Bethel Health Care Center in Bethel, Conn. He was 67. The cause was a series of strokes resulting from cancer
 Clayton Kirkpatrick, a former editor of The Chicago Tribune who presided over a sweeping transformation of the newspaper's editorial approach, died Saturday at his home in Glen Ellyn, Ill., a suburb of Chicago. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, The Tribune reported 
 Leon S. Roudiez, a professor emeritus and former head of the French department at Columbia University, died Friday at his home in Stevensville, Md. He was 86 and formerly lived in Closter, N.J. His death was announced by his family. Dr. Roudiez taught French literature in th
 Leonel Brizola, the former governor of Rio de Janeiro state and a veteran leftist whose role in trying to head off a military coup in the early 1960's made him a towering figure in Brazilian politics, died Monday night at a hospital near his home in the Copacabana district in Rio de Janeiro
 Dr. Thomas Gold, an astrophysicist at Cornell University whose wide-ranging work touched on lunar exploration, the origins of oil and the creation of the universe, often in the face of accepted theories, died on Tuesday at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 84. The cause w
 Miles Fiterman, a businessman whose donation of a $30 million building to the Borough of Manhattan Community College in 1993 was one of the largest gifts ever to a community college, died on Monday in Rochester, Minn. He was 84 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla. He died of heart failure 
 Robert W. Bemer, an early computer programmer, who helped devise Ascii, a system for representing letters and numbers in code that is still in use, died Tuesday evening at his home in Possum Kingdom Lake, Tex., west of Fort Worth. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his stepson, Glen P
 Bernard Russell Seidman, at the forefront of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s efforts to improve Social Security and pension benefits, died on Thursday at his home in Falls Church, Va., the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced. He was 84. For decades, Mr. Seidman worked closely with George Meany, the A.F.L.-
 Herman Heine Goldstine, a mathematician who worked on the earliest electronic computers and helped the military develop the famous Eniac, died on June 16 at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 90. His death was announced by the T.J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., wh
 Danny Dark, the unseen voice of Budweiser, StarKist Tuna and many other national brands in television and radio commercials, died on June 13 in Los Angeles. He was 65. The cause of death was bleeding in the lungs, said Mr. Dark's brother, the Rev. Robert Croskery. The trade 
 Stuart Hampshire, an influential philosopher at Oxford and Princeton universities, died June 13 at his home in Oxford, England. He was 89. His death was confirmed by his wife, Nancy Cartwright. Professor Hampshire, who headed the philosophy department at Princeton from 1963 to 1970,
 Bertrand Russell Seidman, who was at the forefront of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s efforts to improve Social Security and pension benefits, died on Thursday at his home in Falls Church, Va., the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced. He was 84. For decades, Mr. Seidman worked closely with George Meany, th
 Fari Amini, a psychiatrist known for his work linking memory with bonds formed in childhood, died June 13 at Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 73 and lived in nearby Ross. The cause was a heart attack he had several days earlier, his family said. Dr. Amini, 
 Dr. Joseph L. Doob, a mathematician who studied and wrote extensively about probability theory, which has applications in insurance, polling and other fields, died June 7 at Clark-Lindsey Village in Urbana, Ill. He was 94. The cause was liver cancer, said Dr. Joseph Rosenblatt, a co
 David A. Brody, a Washington lobbyist for Jewish causes who was so well connected he became known to some as ''the 101st senator,'' died Saturday at a hospice in Washington. He was 88. The cause has not been determined, his wife, Beatrice, said. He had a series of strokes over the l
 Maj. Gen. George S. Patton, the son and namesake of the World War II armored commander and a veteran of combat in the Korean and Vietnam Wars, died on Sunday at his home in Hamilton, Mass. He was 80. General Patton, who retired from the Army in 1980, had been in poor health for year
