 Charles S. Whitehouse, a diplomat and former Central Intelligence Agency official who was ambassador to Laos and Thailand in the 1970's, died on Monday at his home near Marshall, Va. He was 79. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. When Mr. Whitehouse arrived in Vi
 Chet Atkins, the versatile guitarist and record producer who was a leader in the growth of Nashville as a music center in the 1950's and part of the elite force that transformed  country music and affected popular musical taste in America, died on Saturday at his home in Nashville.  He was 
 James T. Ellis, a computer scientist who was one of the creators of Usenet, an international electronic discussion network that played an integral role in the growth of the popularity of the Internet, died on Thursday at his home in Harmony, Pa. He was 45. The cause was non-Hodgkin'
 BASS-Robert Albert. Jazz musician, died on Father's Day. A consummate lover of life, Mr. Bass grew up in NYC, moved to FL, and settled in Atlanta, GA. Anyone knowing Mr. Bass, please contact his son David at 404-876-4816. I love you, Pops!       
 BEDOUKIAN-Paul Zareh. Age 89, of Wilton, CT, on Friday, June 29. Renonwn chemist, author, numismatist. Beloved husband of Vicki and loving father of Joan, Betty and Robert. Services Tuesday, 11 AM, at St. Gregory's Armenian Church, White Plains, NY. Contributions may be made in his memory t
 BORG-Dr. Sidney F. Died peacefully in his sleep on June 26, 2001, after a long illness. Loving father of Nicholas Borg, Andrew Borg, and Jill Spitzer and grandfather of Kristina, Laura, Margo, & Alexander Borg & Rebecca Spitzer. Also survived by two brothers, Robert F. Borg & Matthew F. Bor
 BRENITS-Alan N. ''Buddy''. February 1, 1930 to June 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Nancy (Rush). Devoted father of James, Donald and Andrew. Adored grandfather to Ariel, William, Joshua and Sophie. Loving brother of Helen Glantz and Evelyn Bier. His kindness and compassion will be missed by a
 CAHILL-John J. Forhan, 79, of Vero Beach, Florida, and Martha's Vineyard, a much beloved husband and father, died at his home on June 27 of brain cancer. Mr. Cahill was born in 1921, in New York City to the late Stella Forhan Cahill and Russell Cahill. He graduated from Iona School, where h
 DREYER-Norman L. Beloved husband of Jackie. Devoted father of Janine and Nils Nichols, and Dianne. Adoring grandfather of Skylar. Loving brother of Robert and Peter. Services ''BoulevardRiverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, today, 12:30 PM. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to
 EISENSTEIN-Rabbi Ira. On June 28, in Silver Spring, MD. Husband of the late Judith. Father of Ethan, Miriam and Ann. Grandfather of Aaron Johnson. Funeral services Adat Shalom Reconstructionist Congregation, 7727 Persimmon Tree Lane, Bethesda, MD, 11AM Sunday, July 1. Interment at Judean Me
 GARBARINI-Charles J. Sr. Esq. 90 years old. The Garbarini/Penna and Petro families deeply mourn the passing of our beloved CJ. He was our ''Great One.'' His long and difficult battle with Glaucoma and Parkinson's disease only enhanced his appreciation of life. He never lost his intelligence
 KADANOFF-Irving. Age 92, passed away on Friday, June 29, 2001, in Fort Lauderdale. He is remembered as the beloved husband of 67 years of Gertrude, sister of Bea Shapiro, dear father of Philip and Robert, father-in-law of Eileen and Carol, adoring grandfather of Peri, Jacqueline, Paula, Dav
 LATOUR-Donald D. Of Sea Cliff, NY, formerly of Bronxville, NY, on June 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Lois. He is also survived by his aunt Doris Tether and cousins. Visiting Monday, 7-9 PM, Whitting Funeral Home, Glen Head, NY. Funeral service Tuesday, 10 AM, St. Luke's Episcopal Church, Sea
 LUEDERS-Louie, Jr. Died June 26. He enjoyed a distinguished career with RCA, Lockheed Electronics and Dataproducts Corporation developing advanced data and voice communications systems. He graduated from the Citadel in 1955 and from UCLA Executive Program in 1967. He is survived by three ch
 REISMAN-Dr. Otto I., Professor of physics at New Jersey Institute of Technology. Born in Vienna, Austria, 1928, he fled to Italy, where he lived through the early 1950's, when he moved to New York City. He was survived by his beloved wife, Eva, of 44 years. Also the devoted father of Debora
 THACKARA-James J. A retired economist and banker, died on June 24. He was 87 years old. He graduated from Harvard College in 1936 and entered banking in 1937. During World War II, he served with the US embassy in Brazil and then in the US Navy. In 1946, he was advisor to the Brazilian Deleg
 WELSH-Msgr. Robert E. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Pastor Emeritus of Good Shepherd Church, 1950 Batchelder St., Brooklyn, on June 30. Reposing in Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Quentin Rd., Sunday, July 1, 2-5 and 7-9 PM, and Monday, July 2, 2-5 PM, Mass of Transferra
 COHEN-Elias A. Although 49 years have passed, since our beloved founder, Elias A. Cohen, passed away on July 2, 1952, he is still remembered with love and reverence by the thousands of deserving boys and girls who were privileged to come to his Tranquillity Farm and Camp for a few fun fille
 Rabbi Ira Eisenstein, a key figure in the creation of the Reconstructionist movement in American Judaism, died on Thursday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 94 and lived in Silver Spring. Rabbi Eisenstein was the closest collaborator of Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan, th
 Chet Atkins, the versatile guitarist and record producer who was a leader in the growth of Nashville as a music center in the 1950's and part of the elite force that transformed country music and affected popular musical taste in America, died on Saturday at his home in Nashville.  He was 7
 Kenneth Schuyler Lynn, an author, editor and educator best known for his writings on American thought and his analytical studies of Mark Twain, Charlie Chaplin and Ernest Hemingway, died June 24 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 78 and lived in Washington. The cause 
 Dr. Lewis L. Coriell, a virologist who helped create the technology used to develop the polio vaccine and who founded the Coriell Institute for Medical Research, died on June 19 in Camden, N.J. He was 90. Dr. Coriell, of Moorestown, N.J., made innovations in human tissue culture tha
 ARMSTRONG-Richard. Of Old Tappan, NJ, died on Friday, June 29. He is survived by his wife, Virginia, his stepdaughter Jean Rettig-Carr and her husband Daniel Carr, and his granddaughter, Jessica. Burial services were private. A memorial mass will be celebrated at St. Pius Church, Old Tappan
 BEDOUKIAN-Paul Zareh. Age 89, of Wilton, CT, on Friday, June 29. Renowned chemist, author, numismatist. Beloved husband of Vicki and loving father of Joan, Betty and Robert. Services Tuesday, 11 AM, at St. Gregory's Armenian Church, White Plains, NY. Contributions may be made in his memory 
 FEARN-Daniel J. On July 1, 2001, of Garden City, NY. Loving husband of Helen Bishell. Beloved father of Daniel J. Fearn Jr. and his wife Kirsten. Devoted grandfather of Hilary Ballesteros, Erik, Eva and Ian. Also survived by four great-grandchildren and Helen's children Neil T. Chapman and 
 LEVENSON-Hawley Cohen. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Board member, Mark Levenson, on the loss of his mother. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ezra G. Levin, Pres. Michael S. Mi
 SCHOLAR-Rabbi Michael. Congregation Kneseth Israel, Far Rockaway, NY, mourns with heartfelt sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and extends condolences to the entire family. Tzvi Flaum, Rabbi Ralph Pelcovitz, Rabbi Emeritus Jeffrey Sinensky, President SCHOLAR-Rabbi Michael. Th
 STOTZ-Norman I. June 29, age 70. Born Pittsburgh, PA. Graduated Lehigh University, 1953. Singer, actor, humorist, polymath, distinguished member and officer of NYC Audubon Society. Survived by his cousins Virginia Stotz of Manhattan, Alice Diehl of Annville, PA, Jane Matz of Traverse City, 
 Roy Longmore, who was proclaimed a legendary figure by the Australian government last year as one of the nation's last surviving veterans of the World War I battle at Gallipoli, died on June 21 at a nursing home in Melbourne. He was 107. Mr. Longmore was a lowly enlisted man and he 
 Joe Henderson, one of the great jazz saxophonists and a composer who wrote a handful of tunes known by almost every jazz student, died on Saturday in San Francisco. He was 64 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was heart failure after a long struggle with emphysema, The Associated
 Kenneth Schuyler Lynn, a historian of American thought noted for his analytical studies of Mark Twain, Charlie Chaplin and Ernest Hemingway, died on June 24 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 78 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications from leu
 BRICK-Seymour J. Of Greensboro NC (formerly, Neponsit, LI, NY; West Palm Beach, FL; Coral Springs, FL). Died on Monday, July 2. He is survived by three children, Larry, Mary-Ann and Judy; ten grandchildren; nine great grandchildren. The family will receive visitors at the Jonas home, 264 Go
 BRUNER-SMITH-C. On June 26, 2001, at the age of 97. The Trinity School community deeply mourns the loss of our inspiring teacher who served the School from 1927 until his death. He will be remembered for his gentle dignity, loving wit, and unique way of making the past come alive. In keepin
 EISENSTEIN-Rabbi Ira. We record with profound sadness the passing of our honored and deeply respected teacher and colleague, past president (1952-54) of the Rabbinical Assembly, who through classroom, written word, and tireless dedication left an enduring legacy upon contemporary Jewish lif
 GRISAITIS-Reverend Joseph N. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Parochial Vicar of St. Ann's Church 142-30 58 Avenue, Flushing on July 1, 2001. Reposing in Quinn-Fogarty Funeral Home, 162-14 Sanford Avenue, Flushing, Tuesday, July 3 from 2-5 and 7-9PM and Wednesday, July 4th
 JONES-Whipple Van Ness of Las Vegas, Nevada and Aspen, Colorado died Friday June 29th in Tallahassee, Florida after a long illness. He is survived by three sons Richard McCulloch Jones of Boca Raton, FLorida, Whipple Jr. of Tallahassee, Florida, Carey Etnier Jones of Carbondale, Colorado, S
 KIESER-Rolf. The faculty and students of the CUNY Graduate Center are saddened by the loss of Rolf Kieser, Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures. We express our deep appreciation for his many contributions to The Graduate Center and extend our sympathies to Tamara Evans and all of
 KNASTER-Baruch. Born in Lodz, Poland, passed away in his 96th year. Husband of Cila, beloved father of Rebecca and Mirka and her husband Larry Jacobs. Holocaust survivor of numerous slave labor and concentration camps. A man whose concern for the welfare of his family was first and foremost
 LAWSON-Thomas David. Age 57, died Sunday, July 1, with his family by his side. Beloved husband of thirty-three years to the love of his life, Fay. Adoring father of Allysa & Benjamin Goldman and Steffie and Andrew Gorenstein. Loving grandfather known to all as ''Bobo'' to Justin, Harris & D
 MAURER-Jay. On July 1st, 2001. Beloved husband of Gabriella (Elly), cherished brother of Gary A. Maurer and Lois Weinstein, dear brother-in-law of Theresa Dulgov. Loving uncle and granduncle. He was a computer whiz & a lover of astronomy. The family suggests that any memorial contributions 
 NASTA-John Edward, Jr., 52. On July 2, 2001 of Upper Saddle River, NJ. Beloved husband of Annette (nee Annunziata). Loving father of Lauren Alexandra and Taylor Beth. Cherished son of Theohara Mary (Pappas) and the late John Nasta. Dear brother of Vincent, Michael, Carmella Fiumarra and Rae
 POMERANTZ - Burton. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, Burton Pomerantz. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Barbara and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 REGNA-Peter P. The entire Polytechnic University family mourns the passing of Peter P. Regna, alumnus, distinguished scientist and generous benefactor. Dr. Regna's career spanned half a century. He played a pivotal role in discovering, developing and manufacturing drugs that revolutionized 
 SANKIN-Julius. The Joseph L. Morse Geriatric Center in West Palm Beach, Florida is deeply saddened by the recent passing of Mr. Julius Sankin of Delray Beach, Florida on Saturday, June 30, 2001. He was 83. Mr. Sankin was born in Brooklyn, New York. After serving in the Army during W.W. II, 
 STETSON-John Charles. Age 68, of Port Washington, LI, on July 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Elizabeth. Loving father of Elise, Craig and Jonathan. Devoted and happy grandfather of Caleb, Kate and Lydia Stetson and Thaddeus Charles Allen. Dear brother of Ruth Anderson of Escondido, CA. A celeb
 Dr. Nikolai G. Basov, who shared a Nobel Prize in Physics for research that led to the development of lasers, has died, Russian news sources reported Monday. He was 78. The news reports did not specify when Dr. Basov died or the cause of death. In the 1950's, Dr. Basov and D
 Mordecai Richler, the cranky and combative Canadian novelist and critic whose sometimes ribald writing exposed the heart of Old World Montreal while skewering bourgeois ambition, the roots of Jewish identity and the Quebec separatist movement, died yesterday in a Montreal hospital. He was 7
 DOLGIN-Stuart M., MD. Son of Israel, and Diana, brother of Kalmon, Gail and Neil, beloved husband of Ellie (Roberts) and loving father of Rebecca, Ari and Heather. He was a noted gastroenterologist, beloved by his patients for the depth of his caring. Though his life was shorter than expect
 EISENSTEIN-Rabbi Ira. We record with profound sadness the passing of our honored and deeply respected teacher and colleague, past president (1952-54) of the Rabbinical Assembly, who through classroom, written word, and tireless dedication left an enduring legacy upon contemporary Jewish lif
 LAOR-Eliahu. Mitchell and Ronda Benson and Carl and Mary Olsson mourn the passing of a colleage and a friend. Our deepest condolences to his family.       
 LAWSON-Thomas. Dear, dear friend for over 40 years. The ''Doc'' as he was known to his inner circle of friends was my adopted brother. Thanks for all the fabulous times, the ups and the downs. We shared them all. Tommy was so much a part of our family. We will miss you more than you will ev
 NASTA-John Edward, Jr., 52. On July 2, 2001 of Upper Saddle River, NJ. Beloved husband of Annette (nee Annunziata). Loving father of Lauren Alexandra and Taylor Beth. Cherished son of Theohara Mary (Pappas) and the late John Nasta. Dear brother of Vincent, Michael, Carmella Fiumarra and Rae
 RADDOCK-Jay Joseph. Died peacefully at home in Boca Raton on July 3. Jay was the son of David and Rebecca who came to this country from Galicia. From his days at Yeshiva Torah V'odath in Brooklyn's Williamsburg, to his last years as philanthropist at Florida Atlantic University, he was a un
 REIN-John A. Dr. John A. Rein passed away on Sunday, July 1. Born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1926 to Maxwell and Sadie Rein, Dr. Rein served in the U.S. Army as part of the Japanese Security Forces after World War II as a Second Lieutenant. He attended Ohio State on the G.I. Bill, and medical scho
 ROSENSTOCK-Sam. On July 2, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Lila. Loving father of Susan, Linda Kahner, Harold, Bruce Grilikhes. Dear brother of Jack. Adoring and devoted grandfather of Jesse, Neil, Bryan and Nicole. Service Thursday 11:45AM at the ''Riverside, 76 St. & Amsterdam Av. Contr
 RUBINSTEIN-Benjamin, Dr. Died peaceably and courageously on July 2. He was a devoted and loving husband of Irene for over 65 years. He adored his sister Shirley, and an inordinately proud father of Larry, Peter and John. Loved by his daughters-in-law Robin, Kerry and Blair. He saw his futur
 John Trubin, a prominent New York lawyer and quintessential political insider who spent much of his time working in state and city government, died Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Greenwich Village. He had undergone heart bypass surgery earlier 
 ARMSTRONG-Richard. Of Old Tappan, NJ, died on Friday, June 29. He is survived by his wife, Virginia, his stepdaughter Jean Rettig-Carr & her husband Daniel Carr, and his granddaughter, Jessica. Burial services were private. A memorial mass will be celebrated at St. Pius Church, Old Tappan, 
 BARCAN-Arthur. Loving husband of Edyth; father of Sharon Elswit, Reina, Myra, and son-in-law Michael; grandfather of Kate; and brother of Rosalyn Pincus. Died peacefully on July 4, 2001. He loved life, and we will miss him. The memorial service will take place on Friday, July 6 at 3PM at Gu
 COLE-Donald, M.D. Died accidentally on June 8th at age 74. Survived by 3 children, Jonathan Cole of San Francisco, Deborah Cole of Palm Beach, FL & Alyson Cole-Frankel of Ann Arbor, MI. Dr. Cole was one of the leading specialists in cancer research and Chief of Surgical Oncology at St. Vinc
 DOLGIN-Stuart. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend Stu, a man of great wisdom and infinite compassion, of uncompromising principles and boundless love. He graced our lives with his friendship for over 50 years. Humanity has suffered a deep and abiding loss with his passing. Stu, whereve
 LAOR-Eliahu. Beloved husband of Judith. Adored father of Rauiv, Laurent, Julien and Leann. Loving son of Klara. Devoted brother of Eytan and Ilana Silverstein. He was a dedicated physician and friend. Services Friday 10 AM, at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87 Street and Madison Ave. For informatio
 LICHTENBERG-Murray, on July 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Sandra. Devoted father of Joan and Lawrence Zombek and Joseph and Susyn Lichtenberg. Cherished grandfather of Michael and Ethan. Dearest brother of Manes, Max and the late Lee. You are beautiful and strong and kind, and will live in ou
 NASTA-John. For John, the dreaming, building and planning will never end because those who love him can see the world through his eyes. The Testaverdes, Coreas, McCarthys and The Bedfords       
 RADDOCK-Jay Joseph. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member Jay Raddock and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Sharon, and their family. Robert P.
 REIN-John A. Dr. John A. Rein passed away on Sunday, July 1. Born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1926 to Maxwell and Sadie Rein, Dr. Rein served in the U.S. Army as part of the Japanese Security Forces after World War II as a Second Lieutenant. He attended Ohio State on the G.I. Bill, and medical scho
 RUBINSTEIN-Benjamin, Dr. Died peaceably and courageously on July 2. He was a devoted and loving husband of Irene for over 65 years. He adored his sister Shirley, and an inordinately proud father of Larry, Peter and John. Loved by his daughters-in-law Robin, Kerry and Blair. He saw his futur
 SCHLESINGER-Theodore R. On July 2, 2001. Devoted and adoring husband of Alma for over 66 years. Loving father of Albert, Susan, Donald and Charles. Dear brother of Sig and Belle. Cherished grandfather to Kim and Jill and great grandfather to Emily, Douglas and Jane. Mr. Schlesinger was born
 SILVER-Robert M. The Officers and Board of Directors of Camp Sussex, Inc. extend our deepest condolences to our past president, Robert E. Silver on the loss of his beloved father. Our deepest sympathy to Carol and the entire family. May your memories be an everlasting source of comfort. Boa
 ZWAIK-Stanley Nathan. 82, died on July 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Anne (Lehman) for more than 53 years. Loving father of Judith Tarlo and Stephanie Greenberg and father-in-law of David Tarlo. Adored ''Papa'' of Howard and Joseph Tarlo and Andrew and Dori Greenberg. Cherished brother, broth
 Ely Callaway, a versatile and charismatic business leader who founded the Callaway Golf Company, the world's largest maker of golf clubs, died yesterday at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 82. Mr. Callaway died of pancreatic cancer, which he had been suffering from since A
 Leonard Pines, who expanded his father's business selling deli meats from a wagon on Manhattan's Lower East Side into Hebrew National Kosher Foods, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 90. For most of his adult life, Mr. Pines would walk into the compa
 CROCKET-Philip. With reverence and respect, we mourn the passing of Philip Crocket, a former commander in the American Navy stationed in England during WWII, a Rhodes Scholar, former Wall Street broker, the second husband of the late Ruth Dill Johnson who was the former wife of the late Sew
 DOLGIN-Stuart. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend Stu, a man of great wisdom and infinite compassion, of uncompromising principles and boundless love. He graced our lives with his friendship for over 50 years. Humanity has suffered a deep and abiding loss with his passing. Stu, whereve
 GUITERMAN-Richard L. Colonel Retired, (USAF), of Park Avenue, New York. Died at St. Luke's Hospital on July 2, 2001. Survived by his dear wife Eleanor, her daughter Sara, son-in-law Scott Moyer, daughter Susan Robie, grandchildren Robie Moyer and K. Arden Moyer and by his sister, Marjorie M
 HUPKA-Robert. July 3, 2001. Robert was a renowned photographer known for his photo essays of Arturo Toscanini and Michaelango's Pieta. Robert was also a lifelong friend to Manhattanville College in Purchase, NY. He is survived by his sister Marie Parkinson of Devon, England, and nephews, co
 KAHN-Rabbi Benjamin M. The Hillel family mourns the passing of Rabbi Benjamin M. Kahn, z''l, a pioneer and leader of the Hillel movement. Rabbi Kahn served as Hillel Director at Penn State University from 1940-1959, and as International Director of Hillel from 1959-1971. His work inspired g
 LAOR-Eliahu. Beloved husband of Judith. Adored father of Raviv, Laurent, Julien and Leanna. Loving son of Klara and the late Israel. Devoted brother of Eytan (Holly) Laor and Ilana (Evan) Silberstein. He was a dedicated physician and friend. Services today at 10 AM, Park Avenue Synagogue, 8
 RADDOCK-J. Joseph. The Officers, Directors, Administration, and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express their heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Jay Raddock, a founding Board member and Honorary Vice President. He will long be remembered for his leadership in our construction 
 REIN-John A., M.D. A friend and colleague for 44 years. He will be missed. Deepest sympathy to Inger, Jonathan and family. Dr. G. Nonas and Staff       
 RUBINSTEIN-Benjamin. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Dr. Benjamin Rubinstein, a cherished friend of the Jewish community who expressed his commitment to humanitarian causes through his dedicated service on behalf of our beneficia
 SALANT-Harry. Dear brother of Morris, Benjamin, Samuel, Eileen and the late George. Brother-inlaw of Marilyn and the late Rida and the late Florence. Beloved husband of Claire. His children and grandchildren will carry on his kindness and compassion, as will his many nieces and nephews. The
 SCHLAM-Nathan. Of New Rochelle. Died July 5, 2001. He was the devoted husband of the late Margaret Schlam, survived by his daughters Ruth Katz and Edythe Asher, his sister Rebecca Lutto and his three grand children and four great-grandchildren. A 1 PM graveside service is scheduled for Sund
 SMITH-Fred C., Jr. On Wednesday, July 4, 2001, resident of South Orange, NJ. Cherished husband of Margaret McCarron Smith. Much adored father of Michael, Paul, Peter, Christopher, Stephen, Monica, and Timothy Smith. Proud and loving grandfather to Gabrielle, Samantha, Alexis, Jordan, Brenda
 TRUBIN-John. On July 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Edna (Glassman) and loving father of Priscilla and Andrew Trubin, their devoted spouses Richard Lewis & Virginie de Haugoubart; four grandchildren: Beatrice and Judd Lewis and Paul and Edouard Trubin. Beneficiary of kind and caring friends. F
 Ronald Monchak, a longtime creative executive in the Detroit advertising industry, died on June 26. He was 65 and lived in Rochester, Mich. The cause was leukemia, his former agency said. Mr. Monchak, known as Ron, was a copywriter who spent more than four decades at the age
 Ernie K-Doe, the eccentric rhythm-and-blues singer best known for his 1961 No. 1 hit ''Mother-in-Law,'' died on Thursday at a New Orleans hospital. He was 65. The cause was cirrhosis, said his wife and manager, Antoinette. Mr. K-Doe's career peaked in the early 1960's with a
 BARCAN-Arthur. The Directors and staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York mourn the passing of our former President, Arthur Barcan. May him memory be for a blessing. Avrom I. Doft, President Philip Schatten, Board Chairman Chaim Lauer, Exec Vice President       
 HARTENSTEIN-Chester, D.V.M. Beloved husband of Florrie. Loving father of Steve and Jane, Bob and Deb and the late Rick. Proud grandfather of Sarah and Leah. Devoted brother of the late Anita and Bernie Levy. Caring brotherin-law of Arnold and Naomi Sherman. Cherished uncle of Karen and Gail
 KAHN-Rabbi Benjamin. We record with sorrow the passing of our revered colleague, who dedicated three decades of his rabbinate to working with young men and women on campuses, beginning in 1940 as rabbi of the B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation at Penn State University and later assuming executi
 LEITZ-George E. The Transport Workers Union of America, AFLCIO mourns the loss of our International President Emeritus, George E. Leitz, of cancer, on July 5, 2001. Brother Leitz had served our union with energy and dedication since 1948, first as President of TWU Local 225 in Hackensack, N
 MULVIHILL-Frank J. The officers, members and staff of New York Electrical Contractors Association are saddened by the loss of their friend and associate, Frank J. Mulvihill. For many years Frank was an important part of our electrical industry. His counsel and wisdom will be missed by all. 
 RADDOCK-J. Joseph. The administration, faculty and students of Florida Atlantic University and the Board of Directors of the FAU Foundation express their deepest sympathy to the family of Dr. J. Joseph Raddock, a member of the Board of Directors since 1990. An enthusiastic supporter of FAU,
 Robert E. Hupka, who won renown with his photographs of Toscanini, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 81. Mr. Hupka, who was born in Vienna and emigrated to the United States, was in charge of the record library at RCA Victor in the 1940's when he secretly photographed Toscanini re
 Stephen Ailes, a retired antitrust lawyer and government official who served as civilian head of the Army during the early buildup of American forces in South Vietnam, died on June 30 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89. Mr. Ailes (pronounced ales) retired in 1985 from the large 
 Tony Leswick, a wing for the Rangers, the Detroit Red Wings and the Chicago Blackhawks whose fluke goal in overtime of Game 7 gave Detroit the 1954 Stanley Cup championship, died last Sunday at a hospital in New Westminster, British Columbia. He was 78. The cause was believed to be 
 BAIRD-Robert W., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Robert W. Baird, M.D., a longtime member of the medical staff at the hospital's Singer Division and a philanthropic supporter of many of Beth Israel's programs and initiatives. Dr. Ba
 BUSE-Fred W., M.D. Formerly of Manhasset, NY, at age 93, on June 27, 2001. Veteran of WWII, graduate of Yale Medical School and known for his innovative treatment for catastrophic burn victims. Loving father of Isabel Abdirkin and Beverly Weisman. Grandfather of Jessica, Jared, Daniel, Carr
 BUTLER-Gerald L. Of Florham Park, NJ, former Director of Labor Relations for Allied-Signal, on July 4. Beloved husband of Nancy, devoted father of Gerald Jr., Jeffrey and Michelle, brother of Marie Lauria and William. 41 year career in labor relations, recognized for his integrity, compassi
 FLAHERTY-Kevin F. This warm, witty, charitable and well respected young man died July 3, age 45, of cancer. His too brief career included work as a soloist at St. Bartholomew's Church, arranging speaking engagements for wellknown political and theatrical personalities as a partner with New 
 GREENBAUM-Nat. On July 1, 2001. In his 94th year. An honest, caring, giving human being. Beloved husband of Min, father of Elliot and grandfather of Sara and Andrew. Rest in peace.       
 GUITERMAN-Richard L. Colonel Retired, (USAF), of Park Avenue, New York. Died at St. Luke's Hospital on July 2, 2001. Survived by his dear wife Eleanor, her daughter Sara, son-in-law Scott Moyer, daughter Susan Robie, grandchildren Robie Moyer and K. Arden Moyer and by his sister, Marjorie M
 HANDEL-Rev. John W., Jr. On July 2nd, 2001, of Newport, RI, former resident of Sovereign, E. 58th St., Manhattan. Beloved husband of the late Peta Paul. Fond cousin of James A. Young and family. Veteran of U.S. Navy, serving proudly both W.W. II and Korean War. Graduated with honors from Da
 HARTENSTEIN-Chester, D.V.M. Beloved husband of Florrie. Loving father of Steve and Jane, Bob and Deb and the late Rick. Proud grandfather of Sarah and Leah. Devoted brother of the late Anita and Bernie Levy. Caring brotherin-law of Arnold and Naomi Sherman. Cherished uncle of Karen and Gail
 HUTTER-Dr. Rudolf G.E. A retired physicist, is listed in the ''Who's Who of America.'' He died in Palm Beach, FL. He lived at 445 E. 80th St, in Manhattan. His first wife, Ruth Hutter, now deceased, was a math teacher at the Chapin School on Manhattan's east side. He graduated with a Ph.D. 
 JAMES-Morgan O'Brien. Of New York, NY, died June 11, 2001, after a brief illness. Born Sept 24, 1917, in South Hampton, NY. Son of the late Dr. Henry and Rosalie James. Mr. James had leading roles in Broadway and summer stock productions. He is survived by three brothers, Henry James Jr., D
 KASHER-Fred. Age 88, of Hallandale, FL, formerly of Cedarhurst, NY, passed away July 2, 2001. Predeceased by his wife Jean (Lasner). Survived by his loving daughter Penny (David) Seldin, and grandson Bradley Seldin. Services will be held Sunday, July 8, 11 AM, at Mt. Carmel Cemetery.       
 KERN-Christopher James. Of Chestnut Hill, MA, and NYC, died suddenly after a fatal hit-and-run accident, July 4, in New York City, at age 21. Precious son of Anne (Fallon) and Harold George Kern. Wonderful brother of Gregory and Elizabeth. Godson of Mark Lawless and Gail Audet. Much loved b
 LAWSON-Thomas David. Age 57, died Sunday, July 1, with his family by his side. Beloved husband of thirty-three years to the love of his life, Fay. Adoring father of Allysa & Benjamin Goldman and Steffie and Andrew Gorenstein. Loving grandfather known to all as ''Bobo'' to Justin, Harris & D
 LEFKOWITZ-Netty. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Netty, mother-in-law of our fellow member and Secretary of the Board of Governors, Harvey L. Radler. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to his wife and Netty's daughter Pauline and their family. Robert E. Mo
 LEITZ-George E. The Transport Workers Union of America, AFLCIO mourns the loss of our International President Emeritus, George E. Leitz, of cancer, on July 5, 2001. Brother Leitz had served our union with energy and dedication since 1948, first as President of TWU Local 225 in Hackensack, N
 MCGANN-George. Age 88 at his home in San Miguel De Allende, June 28. Retired editor & manager of the New York office of Australian Consolidated Press. A tennis authority, he covered tennis and other news, and wrote ''Court on Court'' with Margaret Smith Court and ''Court Hustler'' with Bobb
 MEYER-Jeffrey. A classical music expert who represented various recording labels such as Delos International, Albany Music, and Qualiton, died Saturday, June 30, 2001, at his home in Marietta, Georgia, after a long and courageus battle with cancer. Mr. Meyer, also a fine and rare antique je
 MORGAN-Edwin D. Died June 28. A memorial service will be held at 10:30 AM, Wednesday, July 11, at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Ave, at 51 St. Eddie served with the 1st Marine Divison in Guadalcanal, New Guinea, New Britain and Peleliu. He founded Holographics, Inc., which developed useful
 MULVIHILL-Frank J. The officers, members and staff of New York Electrical Contractors Association are saddened by the loss of their friend and associate, Frank J. Mulvihill. For many years Frank was an important part of our electrical industry. His counsel and wisdom will be missed by all. 
 PINES-Leonard. Founder of Hebrew National Kosher Foods, the company that promises to ''answer to a higher authority,'' died on Wednesday, July 4th. He was 90. Pines' father, Isadore Pinkowitz, a Romanian immigrant, founded the Hebrew National Kosher Sausage Factory in 1905, producing kosher
 TREIB-Seymour L. On July 1, of Safety Habor, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Survived by his spouse Patricia K. Treib, daughter Elinor Treib Sikes, and sister Blanche Treib Beckerman.       
 William Joseph Mouton Jr., a structural engineer and emeritus professor of architecture at Tulane University who provided the physical underpinnings for the growth of the New Orleans skyline, died June 30 at a New Orleans hospital. He was 70 and lived in Harahan, La., a suburb of New Orlean
 Harold S. Grossbardt, a founder of Colony Records, the famed collector's store now on Broadway at 49th Street in Manhattan, died on June 10 at his home in Aventura, Fla. He was 85. Mr. Grossbardt, who was known as Nappy, helped make Colony a fixture of Tin Pan Alley, the center of N
 The Rev. John F. Hotchkin, widely considered a guiding spirit in the Roman Catholic Church's ecumenical efforts in the United States, died on June 24 at his home in Washington. He was 66. He had severe bronchitis, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops said in announcing his de
 ALLALOUF-Sam, 73. Of NYC. Died Saturday, July 7, 2001, after weeks of complications following heart surgery. Beloved brother of Pauline and Maury (and wife Jenny) and uncle to Robert, Felice, Gary and Francine. Retired Public Relations Officer and News Editor, formerly of Roosevelt Hospital
 BREINDEL-Joseph H., M.D. Born 1909, in Zablotow, Poland, and graduated medical school in Italy, then immigrated to the US and established a private practice in Obstetrics and Gynecology for over 50 years until his retirement in 1989. Full attending at Beth Israel for many years and former C
 DORF-Mitchell Lane. Age 42, of Freehold Township, died Tuesday, July 3, 2001, at Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, after a long illness while awaiting transplant surgery. Mr. Dorf is survived by his father and law partner, Gerald L. Dorf, his mother Evelyn S. Dorf, an interior designe
 LEITZ-George E. The Transport Workers Union of America, AFLCIO mourns the loss of our International President Emeritus, George E. Leitz, of cancer, on July 5, 2001. Brother Leitz had served our union with energy and dedication since 1948, first as President of TWU Local 225 in Hackensack, N
 MORGAN-Edwin D. Died June 28. A memorial service will be held at 10:30 AM, Wednesday, July 11, at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Ave, at 51 St. Eddie served with the 1st Marine Divison in Guadalcanal, New Guinea, New Britain and Peleliu. He founded Holographics, Inc., which developed useful
 SARAZEN-Richard Allen. Of Windham, NY, died peacefully on July 6, 2001, in Boston. He was 68 years old. Mr. Sarazen was born June 27, 1933, in Brooklyn, NY. He is survived by a brother, a sister, two former spouses, eight children and 12 grandchildren. Mr. Sarazen was a Member of the Board 
 SHERTZER-George E. Age 73, died July 7, at Norwalk, CT. A graduate of Yale College, Class of 1950, Columbia Law School, 1953. Served as General Counsel of GTE Corporation from 1972-1983. Survived by his wife Dee, his children John and Anne, and seven grandchildren. Memorial Service later.  
 STEINBERG-Rose. The World Jewish Congress participates in the mourning of its Executive Director, Elan Steinberg, on the death of his mother. Services Monday, July 9, at 9:30 at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Ave. Edgar M. Bronfman, President Israel Singer, Secretary General Evelyn Sommer, Cha
 Patriarch Maximus V Hakim, who for more than 30 years was spiritual leader of the small Greek Catholic Church and who sought better relations with the larger Eastern Orthodox Church, died on June 29 in a hospital in Beirut. He was 93. Elected in 1967 as the 20th patriarch of Antioch
 Charles Neider, a prolific essayist, novelist, nature writer and Mark Twain scholar, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 86. Mr. Neider edited and annotated a dozen anthologies of Twain's short stories, humorous sketches, essays, travel books, novels and letters,
 BECKER-Leonard. The Board of Directors and staff of the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service mourn the loss of former Assistant to the Executive Director, Leonard Becker, age 78, who died on July 7, 2001, at Huntington Hospital following a brief illness. A native of Chicago and a veteran an
 BREINDEL-Joseph H., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff in the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Joseph H. Breindel, M.D., a dedicated member of the hospital's Ob/Gyn medical staff, wh
 COLE-Mark. On July 8. Survived by his beloved wife, Cecilia Cole; cherished brother-in-law of Min Suskowitz; loving uncle of Saundra and Kenneth Newman. We will all miss him and his sense of humor. Services were private.       
 FRIEDMAN-Leo J. July 8, 2001. Survived by his wife, Cecille; sons, Roger and Jeffrey; grandchildren, Brian, Jill and Jason. Graveside funeral at the Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ, Wednesday, July 11, 11AM.       
 GRIMES-Kenneth. The Board and staff of Citymeals-on-Wheels express sympathy to our Vice President, Robert Grimes, on the loss of his father, Kenneth-a loving, courageous and righteous gentleman for all his 91 years. Preston Robert Tisch, President Gael Greene, Founder and Chair Marcia Stein
 KELLER-Marvin MD. The Medical Staff of the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens grieve the loss of its distinguished colleague and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family. Marvin Leder, M.D, President Talat Addasi, M.D. Vice Pres Gabriel DeAngelis, M.D. Secretary, Treasurer      
 NESHAMKIN-Oliver M., M.D. July 8, 2001, peacefully in his home in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Lucy. Devoted father of Paul and his wife, Ruth, and Linda and her husband John W. French. Proud grandfather of Alexandra and Jennifer French. Staunton Military Academy '31, Columbia College '35,
 WOLFE-Kenneth. The New York Metropolitan Region of The United Synagogue of Conservative Judiasm mourns the untimely passing of our Board Member. Our condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Marsha Shlefstein, President Bruce F. Greenfield, Exec. Dir.       
 Rolim Adolfo Amaro, a pioneering airline executive who played an important role in the modernization of Brazil's aviation industry, died on Sunday when the helicopter he was flying crashed in a deserted stretch of countryside near the border of Brazil and Paraguay. He was 58. Mr. Am
 Dr. Eugene P. Cronkite, an expert in radiation biology who was among the first to recognize and report on links between cancer and exposure to sublethal levels of radiation, died on June 23 at his home in Setauket, N.Y. He was 86. In addition, Dr. Cronkite developed a center for the
 Msgr. John Patrick Carroll-Abbing, a priest who founded Boys' Town and Girls' Town of Italy 56 years ago for the waifs left after World War II, died on Monday at Boys' Town of Rome. He was 88. He had worked on day-to-day management until recently and died after  a stroke, the organi
 Otto Rosenberg, a German Gypsy who survived Nazi persecution and described it in a volume of memoirs, ''A Gypsy in Auschwitz,'' died last Thursday in Berlin, the German newspaper Berliner Zeitung has reported. He was 74. The cause of death was not immediately disclosed. Whil
 BERGREEN-Morris H. Beloved husband of Adele, adored father of Laurence and the late John, cherished father-in-law of Betsy and Natasha, loving grandfather of Nicholas and Sara. Remarkable, brilliant, and unforgettable, a truly generous spirit. Services on Thursday, July 12, 2001 at 11 AM, a
 BREED-William C. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of William C. Breed, father of Michael Breed, Head Golf Professional. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Rebecca, his children, Giff, Alan, Michael and Becky, and to the
 BROOMER-Judge Alan. After a long illness, retired Judge Alan Broomer succumbed to cancer yesterday. His brilliant judicial career in Kings County Superior Court spanned over a decade. He began his legal career in the Manhattan District Attorney's office, rising to the position of Bureau Chi
 CARROLL - ABBING - Monsignor John Patrick. The directors and staff of Boys' Towns of Italy, Inc. mourn the passing of our beloved founder, Monsignor John Patrick Carroll-Abbing. He was ordained a priest in Rome in 1935 and named a Monsignor shortly thereafter. He served in the Papal Househo
 DENHAM-William Haig. Age 83. Loving father of Stacey Denham and the late Lisa Ahn, proud grandfather of Boris and Naomi, devoted brother of June McDonald and Leonard Denham and the late Gloria Cubbin, uncle to Michelle and Denise. Died July 9, 2001. Dir. of Manpower & Training NIMH, profess
 RADDOCK-J. Joseph. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed Board Member, Chai Founder and cherished member of our extended family, Jay Raddock. Together with his wife, Sharon, the Raddocks' generous support enabled Boys Town to fulfill its mission of turn
 SILVER-Rabbi David L. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of one of the oldest rabbinic alumni, who was spiritual leader of Kesher Israel Congregation, Harrisburg, PA, for 50 years until his retirement in 1983 and remained active
 SUTHERLAND - Edward M. Passed away July 10, 2001, after a long illness. Survived by his wife, Barbara, two brothers, and cousins, Gail and John. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. No service, no flowers, please. Contributions to The Volunteer Referral Center, Star Learn
 TANIER-George I. October 17, 1917-July 6, 2001. Importer of Danish furniture for half a century and founder of Design Selections International, Inc. Survived by his wife Inger-Marie Tanier of CrotonOn-Hudson, New York, son Jeffrey Tanier Berg of Cambridge, MA, daughter Nanna Tanier of Malve
 WILSON-Zachary, 51. In loving memory of the family who mourns with heartfelt sorrow the loss of their beloved Zach. Son of the late Ami. He is survived by his beloved mother, Eunice, his children Adam and Alexis. Brother to Joel and Suzi, and Lana and Bob Morgan. Uncle to Michael & Stacy, &
 Dr. Gerald L. Geison, a biographer of Louis Pasteur and an expert on the history of medicine, died July 3 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 58. The cause was an enlarged heart, according to Princeton, where he was on the faculty for more than 30 years. Dr. Geison's most 
 Lou Kusserow, an outstanding back who ran for two touchdowns in Columbia's monumental football upset of Army in 1947 and later became a producer for NBC Sports, died June 30 at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 73. The cause of death was complications from prostate cancer, ac
 BARRICKS-Mary. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Dr. Norman Adler upon the loss of his mother. May the families be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 BERGREEN-Morris H. The President, Chancellor Emeritus Boards of Governors and Overseers, Faculty Administration and Students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Morris H. Bergreen, generous benefactor and devoted friend of the Colleg
 BLAU-Edward L. The American Jewish Committee is profoundly saddened by the death of Edward Blau, a treasured friend and devoted member for nearly 50 years. Bud served AJC as a member of our National Board of Governors, Budget Committee, Domestic Policy Committee and as past president of our
 BREED-William Constable III, 66, died Monday July 9, 2001 following complications after a courageous battle with Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Breed was co-founder and president of Edgewood Management Company in New York and lived in Greenwich, Connecticut. Prior to founding Edgewood Management 
 CARROLL - ABBING - Monsignor John Patrick. The directors and staff of Boys' Towns of Italy, Inc. mourn the passing of our beloved founder, Monsignor John Patrick Carroll-Abbing. He was ordained a priest in Rome in 1935 and named a Monsignor shortly thereafter. He served in the Papal Househo
 CHAMLIN-George. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, George Chamlin. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Paul M. Weltz, President Samuel Laufer, Secretary       
 MOESCHEN-Francis Burke. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Francis Burke Moeschen, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Hi
 POTTER-C. Nicholas. Of Mill Neck, NY died peacefully at home on July 10th after a courageous battle with cancer. He was 62 years old. Loving and devoted husband of Clare; proud father of Cary Nicholas Jr. & his wife Alison, Christopher Kingsland & Jennifer; grandfather of Macy Lockheart, Ni
 SOUKAS-Christopher. On July 10, 2001. Loving husband of Alexandra. Devoted father of Thomas and his wife Barbara, Anthony and his wife Diane, Christopher and his wife Catherine. Dear grandfather of Matthew, Heather, Nicholas, Alexandra Chloe, Gerald, James and Thomas. Dear brother of Vasili
 Abraham Schrader, a garment manufacturer who cut a wide swath in the Seventh Avenue ready-to-wear trade, died yesterday on the Abe Schrader Floor of Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 100. Mr. Schrader, who was universally called Abe, reigned as one of the kings of Seve
 Rabbi Benjamin M. Kahn, executive vice president of B'nai B'rith International from 1971 to 1976, died on July 4 at a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 87 and lived in Silver Spring. Rabbi Kahn retired from B'nai B'rith in 1976 and was then elected honorary executive vice presid
 Heinz Prechter, who as an exchange student from Bavaria brought the concept of car sunroofs to the United States and who went on to become a major manufacturer of  automotive products and a leading contributor to the campaigns of both President Bush and his father, died on July 6 at a guest
 ABRAHAM-Marshall. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Marshall Abraham, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary       
 ALFANDARI-Albert. Died peacefully at home on July 11, 2001. Loving father of Jacqueline Alfandari and Sandra Alfandari Murphy. Adoring grandfather of Jason M. Nelson and Rachel Nelson. He will be warmly remembered by his family for his kindness and wisdom.       
 BERGREEN-Morris. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of one of our staunchest advocates and friends whose sensitivity and encouragement spurred the Theater's efforts to identify and nurture American playwrights We will miss his wise and generous co
 CARROLL - ABBING - Monsignor John Patrick. The directors and staff of Boys' Towns of Italy, Inc. mourn the passing of our beloved founder, Monsignor John Patrick Carroll-Abbing. He was ordained a priest in Rome in 1935 and named a Monsignor shortly thereafter. He served in the Papal Househo
 FISCHMAN-Bernard D. Age 86. On July 11, 2001. Adored husband of Hilda. Devoted & loving father of Judith (Harmer) and Robert. Cherished grandfather of Jesse, Joanna and Eliza. Brother of the late Ruth Rackman and Mervyn Fischman. Funeral service Friday, July 13th, 11 AM at The Riverside Cha
 HAIMOVICI-Henry. Died at his home in New York City on July 10, 2001 at 93 years of age. He is survived by his brother Avram Haimovici, his nephew Yaacov Haimovitch and his niece Sara H. Hirsch, all in Israel; and a niece Marta H. Albulescu in Romania; and several grand-nephews and grand-nie
 KURTZMAN-Allan H. The Hunter College community mourns the loss of our distinguished alumnus and loyal supporter, Allan H. Kurtzman. A member of the Hunter College Hall of Fame, former Chair of the Hunter College Foundation Board of Trustees and former President and Chief Operating Officer o
 PHILIBOSIAN-George. The Board of Trustees of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center records with sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague and benefactor, George Philibosian. His devotion to our Medical Center and so many other institutions in the greater Englewood Community will long be 
 POTTER-C. Nicholas. His fellow trustees and the administrative staff of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation mourn the untimely passing of a beloved colleague and wonderful friend. An engaging man of thoughtfully chosen words, all of them incisive, Nick Potter brought an informed a
 RANINGA-Dilsukh, MD. With great sadness the family, friends and colleagues of Dilsukh Raninga mourn his passing and celebrate his life of service and achievements. Beloved husband of Irene DeLizzo and father of Steven, Amit and Christina, Dr. Raninga is also survived by his father Vasanji R
 SCHRADER-Abraham. On July 12, 2001 at age 100. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Devoted father of Mort and his wife Miquette & Steve and his wife Lucy. Grandfather of Jacob, David and Eliza. Services today, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. SCHRADER - 
 TEICHMAN-Murray. Of Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved husband of the late Florence. Devoted father of Harvey and Helen, Stewart and Sue, and Anita and Pat. Adored grandfather of Heather, Ben, Matthew, Eric, Ashley and Andrew. Dear brother of Bernice and Lillian. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'', 
 John H. Holdridge, a longtime Foreign Service official who accompanied President Richard M. Nixon on his historic visit to Beijing in 1972, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 76 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Holdridge, 
 Maceo Anderson, the last surviving founding member of the Four Step Brothers, one of the world's most celebrated and enduring tap acts, died on July 4 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles. The Four Step Brothers, billed as ''eight feet of rhythm,'' played
 Morris H. Bergreen, a lawyer, businessman and administrator who as president of the Skirball Foundation oversaw the donation of millions of dollars to New York University, the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles and other recipients, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 
 BASSOFF-Horace H. Beloved husband of Phyllis (nee Dubin). Much loved father of Caron and Eddie Rabinowitz and Scott Bassoff. Dearest Grandpa of Lauren and Jason Rabinowitz, Allison and Lindsay Bassoff. Son of the late Charles and Anna Bassoff and brother of the late Harold. ''The Legend'' w
 FISCHMAN-Bernard D. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P., mourns with sorrow the July 11, 2001 passing of our beloved counsel and sage, Bernard D. Fischman. Known to all as Bernie, he was an extremely dedicated attorney, and at the time of his death was still active on behalf of many of h
 GREGORY-The Reverend Protopresbyter Basil S, a priest of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese and President of Latsis U.S.A. Inc/ SETE Consultants & Services (USA) Inc, reposed on July 12 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. Father Basil was a priest for over five decades, serving Greek Orthodox Co
 JACKSON-David Noyes. Who, with his companion, the late poet James Merrill, resided in Key West for nearly 25 years, passed away peacefully in his sleep at his home in the early morning of July 13, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Doris Sewell Jackson. A remembrance of his life will b
 LEWIS-Gerald Firth, Jr. Died on July 10, 2001, peacefully at home after a brief illness. Beloved husband for forty-eight years of Harriette (nee Campbell), devoted father of Tish, Daphne and Larry, adoring grandfather to Jennifer, Christopher, Lindsay, Elizabeth and Lauren, and loving broth
 MARCELLINO-Fred. July 12, 2001. Husband of Jean. Father of Nico and his wife Elizabeth. Brother of Marie Marcellino Allen. He was a noted illustrator and author of children's books after an illustrious career as both a book jacket and record album cover designer. Friends may call at Frank E
 POTTER-C. Nicholas. Of Mill Neck, NY died peacefully at home on July 10th after a courageous battle with cancer. He was 62 years old. Loving and devoted husband of Clare; proud father of Cary Nicholas Jr. & his wife Alison, Christopher Kingsland & Jennifer; grandfather of Macy Lockheart, Ni
 RANINGA-Dilsukh, M.D. The staff of the New York-Presbyterian Healthcare System acknowledges with sadness the passing of Dilsukh Raninga, MD, Chief of Cardiology at Community Hospital of Brooklyn. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family. Arthur A. Klein, MD, Sr. VP and Chief Operat
 SCHRADER-Abe. We are saddened by the loss of our dear friend & neighbor, Abe Schrader. Abe showed all of us how to live life to its fullest. We extend condolences to his sons, Steven and Morton. Arthur Sarnoff, President Kenilworth Apts. SCHRADER-Abe. We salute the life of Abe Schra
 TOMLINSON-Henry P., 81. Of Vero Beach, FL died July 10, 2001, at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach after a brief illness. Mr. Tomlinson was born September 29, 1919 in Princeton, NJ and moved to Vero Beach in 1984 from Mantoloking, NJ. He was a member of the Ivy Club of Princeton 
 SPEVACK-Edmund. 7/14/63-7/2/01 We celebrate his life. For us he will never die. Diane, Elaine, Eunice and Witold       
 Fred Marcellino, a freelance designer and illustrator who changed the way book covers and jackets for contemporary fiction are designed and who later became an author and illustrator of award-winning children's books, died Thursday. He was  61. The cause was colon cancer, said his w
 ASHLEY-Charles Allen, M.D. The Trustees and staff of Bassett Healthcare mourn the loss of our former Director, Charles Allen Ashley, M.D. Under Dr. Ashley's leadership (1967-1984), Bassett experienced significant growth in terms of the number of patients served, expanded medical education p
 BASSOFF-Horace H. Beloved husband of Phyllis (nee Dubin). Much loved father of Caron and Eddie Rabinowitz and Scott Bassoff. Dearest Grandpa of Lauren and Jason Rabinowitz, Allison and Lindsay Bassoff. Son of the late Charles and Anna Bassoff and brother of the late Harold. ''The Legend'' w
 BERGREEN-Morris H. Beloved husband of Adele, adored father of Laurence and the late John, cherished father-in-law of Betsy and Natasha, loving grandfather of Nicholas and Sara. Remarkable, brilliant, and unforgettable, a truly generous spirit. Services were held. BERGREEN-Morris H. 
 FISCHMAN-Bernard D. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P., mourns with sorrow the July 11, 2001 passing of our beloved counsel and sage, Bernard D. Fischman. Known to all as Bernie, he was an extremely dedicated attorney, and at the time of his death was still active on behalf of many of h
 GREGORY-The Reverend Protopresbyter Basil S, a priest of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese and President of Latsis U.S.A. Inc/ SETE Consultants & Services (USA) Inc, reposed on July 12 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. Father Basil was a priest for over five decades, serving Greek Orthodox Co
 JACKSON-David Noyes. Who, with his companion, the late poet James Merrill, resided in Key West for nearly 25 years, passed away peacefully in his sleep at his home in the early morning of July 13, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Doris Sewell Jackson. A remembrance of his life will b
 KIRCHHOFER-Robert J, Age eighty-nine of Sun City Center, FL, died on July 11. Formerly a resident of Pelham, NY, he worked for Caltex Oil for forty-nine years. Mr Kirchhofer lived in Jamaica, India, Holland & New York. Preceded in death by his beloved wife Vera & son Kenny. Devoted husband 
 LEVIN-Robert S., M.D. Age 77, of Sayville, LI, on July 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Dear father and father-in-law of Judy Levin and Jeff Schultz, Dan and Diane Levin, Jay and Debi Demeusy and Bob Demeusy. Fond brother of David. Loving grandfather of six. A service in celebration of
 MARCELLINO-Fred. July 12, 2001. Husband of Jean. Father of Nico and his wife Elizabeth. Brother of Marie Marcellino Allen. He was a noted illustrator and author of children's books after an illustrious career as both a book jacket and record album cover designer. Friends may call at Frank E
 McCLANE-G. Warren. 81. Manager of the Booth Theatre died on June 25, 2001 at Lenox Hill Hospital from cancer. During four decades in the theater he was considered the consummate company manager (''Beyond The Fringe'', ''Irene'', ''Dancin''', ''Woman Of The Year'') before becoming a theater 
 NESHAMKIN-Oliver M., M.D. July 8, 2001, peacefully in his home in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Lucy. Devoted father of Paul and his wife, Ruth, and Linda and her husband John W. French. Proud grandfather of Alexandra and Jennifer French. Staunton Military Academy '31, Columbia College '35,
 POTTER-C. Nicholas. Of Mill Neck, NY died peacefully at home on July 10th after a courageous battle with cancer. He was 62 years old. Loving and devoted husband of Clare; proud father of Cary Nicholas Jr. & his wife Alison, Christopher Kingsland & Jennifer; grandfather of Macy Lockheart, Ni
 SINGER-Norman. Died peacefully July 14, leaving Geoffrey Charlesworth, his beloved companion of 56 years, niece Linda Parker, nephew Duke Lechtman and niece Judi Meyersfield. No funeral. Contributions to American Civil Liberties Union or Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund.       
 TUNG-Randolph Cheng-Yu. Of New Rochelle, NY. On July 12. Beloved husband of Suetse Li. Survived by his brothers Z.Y. of Brooklyn, W.Y. of Chicago, L.Y. of Queens, K.Y. of Oakland and sisters Angela Woo of South Bend, May Wong of San Francisco and Y.N. Lowe of Mountain View. Visitation at Be
 Meyer P. Potamkin, a Philadelphia banker and philanthropist who assembled one of the country's finest private collections of American art, died on July 8 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 91. Mr. Potamkin, known as Pat, and his wife, Vivian, built their collection during five deca
 BAUMAN-Richard E., Esq. On July 14, 2001, at age 77. Devoted companion of Jose R. Vega. Also survived by his grandchildren Maria Rodriguez, Robert Vega and four great-grandchildren; sisters Reva Hildum and Blanca Rodriguez; brothers-in-law Ramon and Carmen Rodriguez. Interment private. Memo
 KLEIN-Martin C. On July 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Jim and his wife Jane. Adored grandfather of Elizabeth. Devoted brother of the late Jerome. Dear uncle of Dan and Dona. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Monday, 5-7 PM, with servi
 LINVILLE-Clarence Edwin. Of Rye, New York, died Friday, July 13, 2001, on the day of his 92nd birthday at the Osborn Pavilion. Ed was born in State College, PA, on July 13, 1909. He grew up in Elizabeth, New Jersey, graduated in 1930 from Princeton University and received a master's degree 
 MAIT-Julius ''Jules.'' On July 13, 2001. Adored darling husband for 62 years of Doris Herzog. Beloved father of Michael and his wife Keith, William and his wife Ronnie and the late Harold. Father-in-law of Janet. Precious ''Poppa'' of Joshua and Kira, Heidi and Bobby Valentino, Robyn and Jo
 MARCELLINO-Fred. July 12, 2001. Husband of Jean. Father of Nico and his wife Elizabeth. Brother of Marie Marcellino Allen. He was a noted illustrator and author of children's books after an illustrious career as both a book jacket and record album cover designer. Friends may call at Frank E
 POTTER-C. Nicholas. The Board of Directors, Senior Management and Staff at J.P. Morgan mourn the loss of our dear and wise friend, C. Nicholas Potter. Mr. Potter spent over 30 years with the firm and his contributions were numerous and far-reaching. Nick began his career with J.P. Morgan in
 SACKS-Ira. The attorneys and staff of Sacks and Sacks mourn the death of their beloved leader, Ira Sacks, innovative champion of job-site safety, tireless advocate of injured workers, esteemed attorney and dear friend. He will always be remembered for his exceptional kindness and wonderful 
 SINGER-Norman. Died peacefully July 14, leaving Geoffrey Charlesworth, his beloved companion of 56 years, niece Linda Parker, nephew Duke Lechtman and niece Judi Meyersfield. No funeral. Contributions to American Civil Liberties Union or Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund.       
 UBALDI-Giacomo ''Jack'' M. On July 14. Beloved husband of Mary. Devoted father of Richard, Augustine and Joan Costello. Beloved grandfather of ten. WWII Navy veteran. Former owner of the Florence Meat Market in Greenwich Village, NY, and cooking instructor at the New School and the Peter Ku
 YARNELL-Jules E. Of Rye Brook, NY, and Lakeville, CT, passed away at age 82, on July 14, 2001. He endured an extended illness with courage and dignity. Born NYC, June 12, 1919. Graduated Townsend Harris and CCNY. Received J.D. from St. John's University and Masters of Law from NYU. During W
 YUE-Shyh-Jong, M.D. On July 13, 2001, in Philadelphia, age 88. Survived by loving family: wife NaiTchi, son David, daughter-in-law Charlotte, and grandchildren Frances, Timothy and Emmalyn. Buddhist service will be scheduled at a later date. To share memories and anecdotes, e-mail shyhjongy
 Andrew E. Gibson, a shipping executive who was an assistant secretary of commerce in the Nixon administration, died on July 8 at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Gibson went to Washington in 1969 at the beginning of the Nixo
 Michael Murtagh, chairman of the physics department at Brookhaven National Laboratory and an expert on high-energy physics, died on Thursday at John T. Mather Hospital in Port Jefferson, N.Y. He was 57 and lived in Shoreham, N.Y. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his wife,
 Norman Singer, a teacher and arts executive who directed several music organizations in New York City, where he also presented major dance troupes, died on Saturday in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Sandisfield, Mass. Mr. Singer was born in Rockaway Beach, Queens, in
 BAUMAN-Richard E., Esq. On July 14, 2001, at age 77. Devoted companion of Jose R. Vega. Also survived by his grandchildren Maria Rodriguez, Robert Vega and four great-grandchildren; sisters Reva Hildum and Blanca Rodriguez; brothers-in-law Ramon and Carmen Rodriguez. Interment private. Memo
 BERGREEN-Morris H. The President, Board of Governors, Fellows and staff of the Oxford Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies, Oxford, England, as well as the American Friends of the Centre, are profoundly saddened by the death of their colleague, supporter and friend, Morris H. Bergreen. As P
 COWEN-Arthur S. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Riverdale, NY, died peacefully at home at the age of 93 on July 15th, 2001. Loving husband of the late Elsie Smerling Cowen and the late Pauline Boxer Cowen and brother of Fanny Spencer. Devoted father of Janice and Dr. Michael Tannenbaum, Phil
 FISCHMAN - Bernard D. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend and fellow director of the Elie Wiesel Foundation, Bernie Fischman. We shall miss the warmth of his presence, his wise counsel, his integrity, his commitment to all that is noble in man and all that allows hope for the future. De
 FRIEDLANDER-Ralph. Of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband of Frankie Spinoza Friedlander. Devoted father of Vivien Konsker. Stepfather of Debra Liberman and Vicki Reynolds. Cherished brother of Hannah Erlich. Loving grandfather of Joshua Konsker, Laura and Melissa Reynolds. Fond brother-in-law 
 KLEIN-Martin C. On July 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Jim and his wife Jane. Adored grandfather of Elizabeth. Devoted brother of the late Jerome. Dear uncle of Dan and Dona. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Monday, 5-7 PM, with servi
 KRITZER-Arthur Roy. Died after a brief illness at Peninsula General Hospital. He was 47 years old. He resided at Surfside Manor in Rockaway Park. The funeral was on July 15th, 2001 at Beth David Cemetery. His family and all his friends will miss him.       
 MAIT-Julius. We mourn the loss of our first cousin Jules who was more like our brother. Jules celebrated life every day. He shared joyfully with Doris for 62 years, with his three sons and daughters-in-law, his two sisters, his eight grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren, and with each p
 McGRANE-Eugene William, 78. Graduate of Manhattan College, died July 14, 2001 at Memorial Hospital, Ormond Beach, FL. He is survived by his wife, Gail, four step-children and eight step-grandchildren. He is also survived by his former wife, Grace, nine children and 12 grandchildren.       
 McKEON-Daniel Manning. The Lincoln Hall Board of Managers notes with deep regret the passing of Daniel Manning McKeon who faithfully served on the Board over 50 years. Mr. McKeon was Secretary of the Board of Managers and served on the Executive, Finance and Buildings & Grounds Committees. 
 MUELLER-Reverend Anthony E. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Parochial Vicar of St. Thomas-More-St. Edmund Church, Rockaway Point, on July 14. Reposing at Queen of Peace Residence, 110-30 221 St, Queens Village, Tuesday, July 17 from 2 to 9PM. Vigil Service at Our Lady Que
 PRELL-Alan S. Age 73, of Wyckoff, NJ, and Boynton Beach, FL. A retired Paper Merchant. Predeceased by his granddaughter, Robyn Prell. Survived by his wife of forty-five years, Nicky; son, Michael & Andrea; daughters, Cyndee and Andrew, and Genie and Andrew; grandchildren, Scott, Josh, Britt
 ROCKWELL-Alan Wesson. At the age of 82 Alan passed away due to heart complications on Thursday, July 12, 2001 in Marin General Hospital. He graduated from the St. Mark's School in 1936 and later from Harvard College in 1940. During World War II Alan served as a Lieutenant in both the Atlant
 SINGER-Norman. The Board of Directors, Artist Members and Staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center are saddened by the passing of Norman Singer, Executive Director from 1975 to 1982. His love of music and inspired leadership contributed greatly to the Society's growth and advanc
 UBALDI-Jack. The many students, customers, readers and friends of Jack Ubaldi mourn his death on Saturday, July 14, at the age of 90. He loved people, food, and cooking, and whether in his store, the Florence Meat Market on Cornelia Street in Greenwich Village, or in his classrooms at the N
 YUE-Shyh-Jong, M.D. The American College of Acupuncture mourns the loss of a colleague, mentor and friend, Jack, who over the past three decades trained hundreds of physicians and dentists in the practice of acupuncture. His wisdom and guidance helped formulate the New York State Educationa
 The Rev. Rodney Kirk, an Episcopal priest who became a guiding spirit behind Manhattan Plaza, the Midtown Manhattan housing complex for artists and writers, which he directed for many years, died Thursday at his home in St. Croix, V.I. He was 67 and had moved to St. Croix after retiring fou
 Eugene Brooks, a lawyer and writer who gave frequent readings with his brother, the poet Allen Ginsberg, died on Wednesday. He was 80. Mr. Brooks, who was born Eugene Ginsberg, changed his surname after he was discharged from the Army in 1945. He graduated from Montclair State Teach
 Jerome A. Danzig, whose early work in broadcasting as a reporter and a producer led to his appointment as a top adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Danzig was named to Rockefeller's staff i
 Mike Saltzstein, who for more than a quarter-century kept Coney Island's last historic carousel spinning through sunlit summers, ice-cold winters and lurching changes in the famed amusement area, died on July 4 in his Brooklyn apartment. He was 60. He apparently died of a heart atta
 BAUMAN-Richard E., Esq. On July 14, 2001, at age 77. Devoted companion of Jose R. Vega. Also survived by his grandchildren Maria Rodriguez, Robert Vega and four great-grandchildren; sisters Reva Hildum and Blanca Rodriguez; brothers-in-law Ramon and Carmen Rodriguez. Interment private. Memo
 COMBS-Mason. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Mason Combs. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 DANZIG-Jerry A. Of Manhattan, died on July 16. The retired management consultant (Chester Burger & Co.) and pioneering broadcast executive served for 12 years as special assistant for communications to Governors Rockefeller and Wilson of NY. Before entering government service, he worked for
 FRIEDLANDER-Ralph D. Beloved brother-in-law to Marilyn and Bob; wonderful uncle to Eileen and Larry; a responsible, respected, charitable, warm human being who has been devoted to his extended family and will be sadly missed by all of us. Our sincerest condolences to his wonderful wife Fran
 GEERY-Donald R. Of NYC, died on July 3, 2001, survived by his nephews, Saleem A. Pernath, Tucker R. Geery & Scott T. Geery. A memorial service will be held at Greenwood Cemetery at 11 AM on Saturday, July 21. Donations in Mr. Geery's memory may be made to Cornell University, Ithaca, New Yor
 HUTTER-Dr. Rudolf G. On July 5th, 2001, of 445 E. 80th St. Beloved husband of Pamela. Cherished father of Barbara Manford and father-in-law of David. Loving grandfather of Jonathan and stepfather of two. Predeceased by his first wife, Ruth Hutter, who was Head of the Math Department of the 
 KIRK-Richard Rodney, on July 12th, 2001 at his home in St. Croix. Born in Hendersonville, NC, he graduated in 1955 from the University of the South in Sewanee, TN and in 1958 from the General Theological Seminary in NYC. He was ordained in Newton, NC and in 1968 received a master's degree i
 SINGER-Norman. The Board and Staff of City Center are saddened by the death of Norman Singer, whose vision kept this theater alive during a critical period in its history. His commitment to the arts helped insure that City Center thrives today as a home for theater, music and dance. Judith 
 WEINTRAUB-Benjamin. Staten Island, NY. Benjamin Weintraub died suddenly on July 16, 2001. He was 88 years old. Beloved husband for 16 years of Rae Wasserman. Devoted father of Josy Ingersoll of Landenberg, PA, and Kathy Puckett of Shelburne Falls, MA. Fond stepfather of Steve Wasserman of Y
 Richard P. Rogers, director of the Film Study Center at Harvard University, and a filmmaker, died on Saturday at his home in Wainscott, N.Y. He was 57 and also had homes in Manhattan and Cambridge, Mass. The cause was melanoma, said his wife, Susan Meiselas. Mr. Rogers spent
 Dr. Robert F. Rushmer, a pediatrician and physiologist who used bioengineering to monitor living hearts and track fetal cardiac function, died on Friday at home at a retirement community in a Seattle suburb. He was 86. Dr. Rushmer was the founding director of the Center for Bioengin
 William C. Breed III, a financial executive active in charitable and civic affairs, died in Greenwich, Conn., on July 9. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich. He had complications after contracting Alzheimer's disease, the Edgewood Management Company, a Manhattan-based investment adviso
 David E. Babcock, a former chairman and chief executive of May Department Stores, died last Friday in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 86. The cause was complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, said Michael J. Babcock, his son. Mr. Babcock joined the
 Elmer W. Henderson, a retired government lawyer who helped make civil rights history after enduring an insult on a 1942 train trip, died on Tuesday at a nursing home here. He was 88 and lived in Washington. In 1942, Mr. Henderson was a field representative for President Franklin D. 
 Ernst Baier, a German figure-skating star of the 1930's, died on July 8 at a hospital in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, a winter resort in southern Germany. He was 95 and lived in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, the site of the 1936 Winter Olympics. By the time Baier turned professional in 1941, h
 Jia Lanpo, one of China's leading archaeologists and a director of the Peking man excavation, died on July 8 at his home in Beijing. He was 92. As director of the fossil site at Zhoukoudian, 30 miles southwest of Beijing, Mr. Jia helped discover the first Chinese hominid fossils, da
 Marco Zanuso, one of the leading designers of furniture, appliances, buildings and more to emerge from postwar Italy, died on July 11 at his home in Milan. He was 85. Mr. Zanuso belonged to a generation of designers dedicated to exploring the new technologies and materials developed
 DANZIG-Jerry A. Of Manhattan, died on July 16. The retired management consultant (Chester Burger & Co.) and pioneering broadcast executive served for 12 years as special assistant for communications to Governors Rockefeller and Wilson of NY. Before entering government service, he worked for
 GRAHAM-Alan Stuart. Died suddenly, while lunching with friends, on Monday, 16 July, in New York City. An elegant man with superb taste he was a well-known fashion designer in the late forties and early fifties in Manhattan. A protege of Norman Norell and then, under his own label, he was a 
 KIRK-Richard Rodney, on July 12th, 2001 at his home in St. Croix. Born in Hendersonville, NC, he graduated in 1955 from the University of the South in Sewanee, TN and in 1958 from the General Theological Seminary in NYC. He was ordained in Newton, NC and in 1968 received a master's degree i
 SHAY-George. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of George Shay, who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community. Mr. Shay's beloved son, Scott Shay, is a true leader of UJA-Federation who serves on our Commission for Jewish Identity and
 Gunther Gebel-Williams, who taught lions to ride on the backs of skittish horses, leopards to jump through flaming hoops held by the gleaming teeth of tigers, and elephants to take calm, leisurely walks through roaring traffic in the nation's busiest cities, died yesterday at his home in Ve
 DE SOLA-Frank, 91. Died June 29 in Beaufort, SC. Mr. De Sola was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and grew up in Brooklyn, NY. In 1946 he succeeded his father as president of the family-founded import/export firm, De Sola Bros. Inc., located on Wall Street in Manhattan. He served as the compa
 DESCH-Carl W. On July 18, 2001 of Garden City, NY. Beloved husband of the late Katharine W. Loving father of Carol, Carl Jr. and Barbara and grandfather of 7 grandchildren. Also survived by his sister Margaret Hanft. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave. at 12th Street, Garden Cit
 FALLON-John T. (Jack) Of Weston, Ma.,Osterville, Ma. and Roslindale, Ma; on July 19, 2001, age 77. Former Chairman and CEO of R. M. Bradley, Inc. Survived by his wife Antoinette (Mayer) Fallon; sister Anne Jones and husband Payson Jones of Falmouth, Ma.; daughter Pamela Jagla and husband Ke
 HOLZINGER-John F. Dobbs Ferry, NY, died July 16, 2001. Born in Manhattan January 8, 1911, grew up in Riverdale and graduated from Columbia University in 1931. He served as Lt. Commander in the US Navy, directing landing craft during the WWII invasion at Omaha Beach. John established the rea
 KIRK-Richard Rodney, on July 12th, 2001 at his home in St. Croix. Born in Hendersonville, NC, he graduated in 1955 from the University of the South in Sewanee, TN and in 1958 from the General Theological Seminary in NYC. He was ordained in Newton, NC and in 1968 received a master's degree i
 OSBORNE-Philip Barry, 66. On July 18, at his home in Chappaqua, NY. Mr. Osborne, a former assistant managing editor at Reader's Digest, previously had been an editor/writer for Time, CBS, and Business Week. Beloved husband of Frances Mary Paczka, devoted father and grandfather of Leicia Osb
 PETRAFESA-John, Sr. Disney Theatricals honors the life and memory of John Petrafesa, Sr. who died suddenly on July 18, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Millicent, his son and daughter-inlaw John, Jr. and Melissa, his daughter and son-in-law Jennifer and Brian McLaughlin and two grand
 STOTT-Gordon D., youngest son of the late Louis N. and Ethel (Doulton) Stott of Santa Barbara, California died Thursday, July 19, 2001 in the John Dempsey Hospital of the University of Connecticut Medical Center in Farmington, CT, of pneumonia. He was 91. Mr. Stott was born in Los Angeles, 
 TOMKINS-Frederick, Jr. 82. On July 16, 2001, at his home on Seabrook Island, S.C. Survived by his beloved wife of 41 years, Mary; by his children Randolph, Sheridan, Peter, and Victoria; and by 11 grandchildren and one great grandchild.       
 Scott Merrill, who played Macheath -- Mack the Knife -- in the hit 1954 production of ''The Threepenny Opera'' by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht at the Theater de Lys in Greenwich Village, died on June 28 at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Bristol, Conn. Mr. Merri
 Bernard D. Fischman, a lawyer and civil liberties advocate, died on July 11 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. A commercial litigator and a corporate lawyer, he also worked without charge as a civil liberties lawyer. Mr. Fischman was of counsel to the
 The Rev. Dr. Howard Schomer, a former president of the Chicago Theological Seminary and activist on behalf of human rights and civil rights, died on June 28 in a hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 86 and moved to Oakland in the 1980's. Dr. Schomer was ordained a Congregationalist mi
 Hugh Randolph Wilbourn Jr., the founder and chairman of the Allied Telephone Company, now known as the Alltel Corporation, died on Thursday. He was 85. Mr. Wilbourn began his career in telecommunications as a lineman for Southwestern Bell Telephone in 1934. Ten years later, Mr. Wilb
 John Brook Marriott, a Briton who for many years watched over the queen's bulging private stamp collection, considered one of the world's richest, died on July 3 at Godalming, Surrey. He was 78. His death was reported in the British press, which cited no cause. He was a wart
 Johnny LoBianco, a boxing referee in New York for three decades who worked a host of championship bouts, most notably Roberto Duran's controversial knockout of Ken Buchanan in 1972, died last Monday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was 85. The cause was congestive heart fa
 ARONOW-Don. Passed away after a courageous battle with cancer on July 19, 2001 on Cape Cod, surrounded by his loving family. Ithaca College graduate and brilliant founder/chief executive of DNA Creative, a dynamic marketing and graphic design firm in New York City. He is the son of the late
 DETRICK-Bruce. Age 59, co-founder of the Tamarand Foundation, died June 30, 2001 of cancer. The Municipal Arts Society honored him in 1992 for roof gardens and play gardens created for NYC AIDS care facilities and for the Hope Garden in Battery Park. A composer, poet, teacher, singer and ac
 FALLON-John T. (Jack) Of Weston, Ma.,Osterville, Ma. and Roslindale, Ma; on July 19, 2001, age 77. Former Chairman and CEO of R. M. Bradley, Inc. Survived by his wife Antoinette (Mayer) Fallon; sister Anne Jones and husband Payson Jones of Falmouth, Ma.; daughter Pamela Jagla and husband Ke
 FARACI-Vincent D. A former recording executive for Atlantic Recording Corp. Died July 19, 2001 at the age of 58. He is survived by his daughter Stephanie Faraci of Larchmont, NY & his former wife, Elaine Faraci. He is predeceased by his son Vincent M. Faraci. Visiting on Sunday from 5 to 9 
 KIRK-Richard Rodney, on July 12th, 2001 at his home in St. Croix. Born in Hendersonville, NC, he graduated in 1955 from the University of the South in Sewanee, TN and in 1958 from the General Theological Seminary in NYC. He was ordained in Newton, NC and in 1968 received a master's degree i
 Dr. Arthur F. Davidsen, a Johns Hopkins astrophysicist who helped define the density and composition of intergalactic space and was a prime mover in transforming the university into an astronomical powerhouse, died Thursday in a Baltimore hospital. He was 57. The cause was complicat
 CANNON-J. Dormer. Of Lakeville, CT, formerly of NYC, on July 20, 2001, age 81. Son of the late William C. Cannon and Edith Dormer Cannon, of Lakeville, CT, and NYC. Retired partner of Beekman and Bogue. Graduated the Hotchkiss School, Yale University and the University of Virginia Law Schoo
 DESCH-Carl W. The Directors of the Columbia University Club Foundation note with sadness the loss of its former President, Carl W. Desch. A member of the Columbia College Class of 1937, he was a great supporter of his Alma Mater. We treasured his leadership, financial acumen and humor. We e
 DISMAN-Allan M. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Allan Disman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 KIRK-Richard Rodney, on July 12th, 2001 at his home in St. Croix. Born in Hendersonville, NC, he graduated in 1955 from the University of the South in Sewanee, TN and in 1958 from the General Theological Seminary in NYC. He was ordained in Newton, NC and in 1968 received a master's degree i
 KRAMER-Ruth M. Of New Rochelle, NY, on July 21, 2001. Beloved mother of Suzanne Vandyk and Marshall and his wife Margerie Kramer. Loving grandmother of Maggie and Ted Kramer. Cherished aunt of Beverly and Stanley Manning. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to The United Hebrew Geriatr
 MARBACH-Dr. Joseph J. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its devoted member, husband of Judith Marbach and father of Claudia, Emily, Ezra, and Cecily. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman,
 MARKER-Victor E. Passed away July 21, 2001. Of Philadelphia, PA. Survived by his wife Beatrice (nee Weissman). Father of Richard A. (Mirele) Marker and Gary J. (Ann) Marker. Brother of Helen Pinsky and Leon Marker. Grandfather of Adam and Joshua. Services and interment will be private. For 
 OPPENHEIM-Annette. July 20, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Stephen. Loving mother of Steph and his wife Wendy, and Jeffrey and his wife Ellen. Cherished grandmother of Kara and Jesse. A gracious lady who will be deeply missed. Service Monday, July 23, 2001, 10 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 BRENNAN-Frances M., 80. Fanny died at New York Weill Cornell Center on July 22, 2001. Wife of the late Hank Brennan. Survived by son Christopher and his wife Ellen of Feasterville, PA, son Richard and his wife Elizabeth of New York City, and sister Lee M. Wrenn of Orcas Island, WA. The fami
 CONNELL-John T., 77, July 22, 2001. He was a lifelong resident of the Bronx, parishioner of St. Brendan's Church, and a U.S. Army veteran, having served during WW II in Europe and the Pacific. An accountant for H.P.D. who was retired in 1985. Beloved husband of the late Mary Connell. Dear f
 FEIN-Ernest L. 88 years. Beloved husband of Jean, devoted father of Robin Elson and Alan and father-in-law of Robert. Cherished grandfather of Zach and Oliver. Survived by his brother Burt and loving nieces and nephews. Services Tuesday, July 24th, 2001 at 10am at Gramercy Park Memorial Cha
 FOX-Julian. September 2, 1926July 18, 2001. Mourned by his devoted family: wife, Suzanne; sons, Ethan and Jonathan; daughters-inlaw, Susan and Nicole; and granddaughters, Sophie and Rachel. Contributions in Julian's memory can be made to the charity of your choice.       
 KIRK-Richard Rodney, on July 12th, 2001 at his home in St. Croix. Born in Hendersonville, NC, he graduated in 1955 from the University of the South in Sewanee, TN and in 1958 from the General Theological Seminary in NYC. He was ordained in Newton, NC and in 1968 received a master's degree i
 LEVINE-Royal. We note with sorrow the passing of Royal Levine, a long time volunteer. We send our most heartfelt condolences to his family. Pat Roberts, President Volunteer Auxiliary, North Shore University Hospital, Manhasset       
 MARBACH-Dr. Joseph J. Adoring husband of Judith Marbach. Devoted father of Claudia and Daniel, Emily and Tim, Ezra and Cecily. Dear brother of Lee Smith and Paula Nathan. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Noah, Rebecca, Sam, Akiva, Amos and Alice. Dr. Marbach was a compassionate doctor to his p
 MARKER-Victor. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Jewish Outreach Institute in New York mourn the passing of Victor Marker, the father of our friend and colleague Richard Marker who also serves as the chairman of our Jewish Connection Partnership project. Our deepest sympathy to Richar
 MORGANA-G. Morley Jr., on July 11, 2001. Most beloved friend, son, brother, cousin and uncle, whose lives his spirit illuminated. He will be profoundly missed. No immediate plans for a memorial. ''Details to follow...''       
 MULHOLLAND-Rev. H., Charles entered into eternal life, on July 21, 2001. Retired priest of the Diocese of Raleigh, NC. Born in NYC, graduate of Bishop Loughlin Memorial HS, US merchant Marine Academy and Catholic University. Veteran of WWII. Beloved brother of Mary Costabile, Catherine Tess
 NELKIN-Les. The Board of Columbia/Barnard Hillel mourns with deepest sorrow the untimely passing of Les Nelkin. As a Founder of the Kraft Center for Jewish Student Life, the Nelkin Family Foundation has been a devoted supporter. Our heartfelt condolences to Les's parents, Ruth and Harold Ne
 SHERMAN-Irving H., who passed away July 21, 2001, had a front-row seat at many of the pivotal events of the 20th century. Born and raised in NYC, he graduated from Stuyvesant High School and attended Cornell University on scholarship. Mr. Sherman was a key member of A.G. Becker and Co., Inc
 TYKOCINSKI-Joseph. ''He who saves one life, it is as if he has saved the entire world.'' Righteous ba'al chesed, extraordinary human being, hero of the Shoah and hero to us. He defied the darkness and illuminated many worlds. Our love to Lily, Mark and Judy, Annette and Joseph, and all the 
 Jonathan C. Rice, an influential figure in the development of public television in the United States, died on Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 85. He had a long illness, said KQED, the San Francisco public television station, in announcing the death of Mr. Rice, who found
 Milton Gabler, who founded America's first independent jazz record label, became the first to reissue out-of-print jazz recordings and for years operated what many considered New York City's most comprehensive and knowledgeable jazz record store, the Commodore Music Shop, died on July 20 at
 ABRAMSON - Benjamin. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff at the Hospital for Joint Diseases are deeply saddened by the loss of Benjamin Abramson, devoted father of our good friend and colleague, Dr. Steven B. Abramson, Chairman of the Department of Rheumatology and Medic
 BERND-Addie, 79. On July 23, 2001. Former owner of Tip Top Printing in Washington Heights. Survived by his wife, Lisa, his daughters, Paulette and Janet, his sons-in-law, Steven and Marc, and his grandchildren, Alex, David, Rebecca and Scott. We will miss his warmth, humor and love. Service
 BRUSH-C. Benjamin, Jr. of Larchmont, N.Y. on July 22, 2001 at 82. Survived by his beloved wife Joan Whiting Brush, sister Carol Brush Banks, two sons and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the Larchmont Avenue Church, Larchmont, NY on Thursday, August 9 at 11:00 A.M.    
 BURKE-William of St. Petersburg, FL died July 22, 2001. Survived by his wife Voncile. National Cremation Society, St. Petersburg, FL.       
 CURRAN-Thomas M. January 5, 1922-July 18, 2001. Beloved husband of Shirley M. Curran. Dear brother of S. Muriel Curran. Greatly missed, his legacy lives on in the lives he touched.       
 DIAMOND-Evan D., 76. Of Norwalk, CT. died July 22, at home. He is survived by two daughters, Amy Diamond Barnes of Hamilton, N.Y., Laura Diamond of Stow, MA, & his loving partner, Eileen Jensen of Norwalk, CT.       
 EGRE-Jack. Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, N.Y., mourns the loss of a long time member. To Nettie, Martin, Janice, Howard and Garry, our deepest sympathy and condolence. May his memory be a blessing. Laurence A. Feldman, President Myron M. Fenster, Rabbi       
 FARLEY-Kevin. The students, faculty and administration of the City College of New York/CUNY mourn the untimely passing of our friend & colleague, Kevin Farley, & offer our warmest condolences to his beloved wife Lisa, his son Michael and daughter Tara. A member of the CUNY family since 1982
 HENKIN-Mal. Passed on July 11, 2001. Mal was an extraordinary man as he lived an ordinary life. He was brilliantly creative, honest, warm and had certain qualities which were modeled by those who knew him. With a deep baritone voice, long body and kind heart. He was father to Mark and Jon, 
 KIRK-Richard Rodney, on July 12th, 2001 at his home in St. Croix. Born in Hendersonville, NC, he graduated in 1955 from the University of the South in Sewanee, TN and in 1958 from the General Theological Seminary in NYC. He was ordained in Newton, NC and in 1968 received a master's degree i
 LANDMAN-Leo. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of Rabbi Leo Landman, revered spiritual leader of Congregation Talmud Torah of Flatbush. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Elliot Pisem, President       
 MARBACH-Dr. Joseph J. New York Chapter of Hadassah notes with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Joseph J. Marbach, beloved husband of Judy, member of the Executive Board and editor of Highlights. May his family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Contributions in his mem
 McCAFFREY-James J., 79. Of Blue Hill, ME, a retired advertising agency executive, former weekly newspaper publisher and avid fisherman-not necessarily in that order-died Saturday, July 21, at the Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor of complications from a stroke. He was stricken a month 
 MOSES-Benjamin B., M.D. On July 24, 2001 in Baltimore, Maryland. Husband of Minna Moses (Zakarin) and the late Frances Moses (Kolodny). Father of Ellen M. Heller, Baltimore, MD, Charlotte M. Fischman, NY, NY, Carol M. Rubin, Newton Center, MA. Grandfather of Dr. William A. and Dr. Lawrence 
 RIVELIS-Dr. Marcos, MD, surviving are his wife Emma, sons Fabian and Daniel, daughter Debora, six grandchildren, two great grandchildren, two brothers and two sisters. Funeral Thursday 12:00pm, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, Inc. 64 Ashford Ave. (exit 17 Saw Mill) Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. Memorials 
 SCHABERICK-Rudi Kurt. Age 62, of Lk. Hopatcong, NJ and Breezy Point, NY. At his home on July 23, 2001. Beloved husband of Sheila (Manning). Funeral Friday, July 27th at 12 Noon at Shepherd of the Hills Lutheran Church, Sparta, NJ. Private cremation will follow. Visiting Thrusday 3-5 and 7-9
 William Vincent McDermott Jr., a Boston surgeon who had taught generations of young physicians since proving his mettle as a combat surgeon in World War II, died last Thursday at his home in Dedham, Mass. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his family said. At his death, Dr. Mc
 Erik Barnouw, whose classic three-volume history of broadcasting in the United States defined the sweep, power and foibles of the industry that forever altered communication and public life, died last Thursday in Fair Haven, Vt. He was 93. Mr. Barnouw, who came to the United States 
 Dr. Joseph J. Marbach, an expert in the diagnosis and treatment of chronic jaw and facial pain, died on July 22 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Marbach, who was a professor at the Un
 Jules Buck, a film producer who was a battlefield cameraman for John Huston's World War II documentaries and later helped to launch Peter O'Toole on his movie career, died July 19 in Paris, where he lived. He was 83. Mr. Buck, who was born in St. Louis, began his career as a still p
 BEAUMONT-Alan. Former NBC director, died July 19 at home in Lakeville, Connecticut. An early television pioneer, he directed many live television programs, including Wide Wide World and The Home Show with Arlene Francis & Hugh Downs. Mr. Beaumont also directed the country's first-ever color
 CANTACUZINO-Dan P., MD. On July 21, 2001, I lost my beloved husband and best friend, Dan Prince Cantacuzino, MD after a long illness. He will always be remembered by those who knew him for his gentleness, generosity, great knowledge and simple decency. A memorial service will be held at St.
 COHEN-Allan J. of Somers, NY and Orlando, Florida, died on July 25, 2001 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, NY. He was 86. On December 24, 1939, he married Betty Thalmessinger. He is survived by his loving wife Betty, daughter Nancy, sons, Donald and Ken, 8 grandchildren, 3 gr
 FRANSIOLI-Thomas Adrian, III. Of Wenham, MA, died Monday. Born in NY on March 17, 1933, he was the son of the late Thomas and Elizabeth McVickar Fransioli. A graduate of Harvard 1955, and Harvard Business School 1960, he joined the Bank of Boston, specializing in international banking in So
 GABLER-Milton. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Milton Gabler on July 20. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director       
 KANNER-Abraham Pascal. The Trustees of the Ida and William Rosenthal Foundation mourn the death on July 22, 2001 of their longtime Trustee and Treasurer. His friendship, good judgment and intelligent guidance for almost 50 years will be greatly missed. Catherine C. Brawer, President       
 LANDMAN-Dr. Leo. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a distinguished former dean of its Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies and dedicated alumnus, beloved husband of Shirley. An eminent authority on Jewish history, law, and rabbinics, he was also a former dean of
 MARBACH-Dr. Joseph J. May he experience the peace now, that he strove to give to others during his lifetime. Margo Feiden       
 MORGANA-G. Morley Jr., on July 11, 2001. Most beloved friend, son, brother, cousin and uncle, whose lives his spirit illuminated. He will be profoundly missed. No immediate plans for a memorial. ''Details to follow...''       
 NELKIN-Leslie A. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP mourns the loss of our friend and former associate, Leslie A. Nelkin. We extend our deepest condolences to his family, his colleagues and his many friends. He will be missed by all.       
 SWARTZ-Robert of Fort Lee, NJ. Beloved husband of Inez (nee Nelson); devoted father of Richard, Barbara Hill and Andrew; dear brother of Claire Trebach; loving grandfather of Hailey, Alex, Hannah, Melissa. Services ''Gutterman-Musicant'', Hackensack, NJ. Thursday, 10:30am (1-800-378-1892)  
 WEISS-Harry. On July 24, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Harriet. Devoted father of Susan and Dr. Norman Sonnenklar and Bette and Dr. Richard Weledniger. Cherished grandfather of Alan, Eric, Risa and Leslie and great grandfather of Jacob, Adam and Harris. We miss you and will always remem
 YOUNG-Raymond Oliphant. On July 24, 2001. Retired V.P. of Citibank and retired manager and agent of Banco Rio de la Plata. Fighter pilot in the R.A.F. during World War II. Predeceased by his loving wife Mary Angela. Devoted father of Patricia and Michael Gallo, Theresa and Serre Murphy and 
 KLEIN-Felix, Jan 17, 1911 to July 26, 1994. Founder, National Society for Graphology. His golden heart inspires us still. Janice       
 James John McCaffrey, the co-founder of a New York advertising agency known for campaigns of understated elegance, died on Saturday at a hospital in Bangor, Me. He was 79 and lived in Blue Hill, Me., after residing several years in Castine, Me. The cause was complications from a str
 GOLDBERG-Norman. Died at home in West Windsor, N.J. on Tuesday July 10, 2001, after a lengthy battle with cancer. He was 74 years old. Norman was a successful business executive, working 25 years at Amerada Hess Corporation. Upon retirement, he was coowner and creator of Photo Plus, a retai
 KAIN-Stephen H. Life partner of Darryl Aronsohn. Beloved father of Seth and Lisa, Jill and Larry Karp, Jennifer and Larry Sweetwood. Dear son of Esther and the late Arthur. Beloved brother of Karen and Steven Bachmann, Janet and Edward Greenberg. Adored grandfather of Alex Kain and Daniel K
 KARP-Moe. On July 25th, 2001. Lived 90 fulfilling years. Survived by Rosalyn, his loving wife of 56 years, children, David (Lisa), Judy (Jaime), cherished grandchildren, Hannah and Jesse, and devoted daughter-in-law, Peggy. Funeral to be held at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Ave., 
 KESSELHAUT-Glenn D. The partners, associates and staff of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett are deeply saddened by the passing of their dear friend and respected colleague, Glenn Kesselhaut, a member of the firm since 1990. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Rachel, to his children, Ben
 KING-Peter. On July 10, 2001 in Moldova. Peter started his career designing for Calvin Klein Jeans & was still in the garment industry at the time of his death. Survived by daughters Julie King and Jamie Levitt. Funeral July 31, 2001, 10AM at Gutterman's Inc. For details call: 718-284-1500.
 MARBACH-Joseph J. The faculty, students, alumni and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health mourn the untimely passing of Dr. Joseph Marbach, long-time faculty member of our Department of Sociomedical Sciences. To his wife, children, grandchildren and entire family, we extend ou
 MIRSKY - Jan. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Jan Mirsky on July 22. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executiv
 MOORE-Philip Walsh. Age 81, died in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. July 18, 2001 after a short illness. He is survived by his devoted wife, Phaedra; daughter Jourdan Houston, (Colorado); son Thomas Moore, (Miami); son Ned Moore, (Virginia); six grandchildren; and sister Louise Immer of Thun, Switze
 RIVELIS-Marcos, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the passing of Marcos Rivelis, M.D. As a highly respected colleague and member of the medical staff at the Hospital for Special Surgery since 1966, he 
 ROSENTHAL-E.M. The officers and Board of Trustees of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations profoundly mourn the death of a cherished friend and colleague. An honorary Vice Chairman, Manny served our sacred cause for many years, always with caring concern and dedication to the great ide
 SWARTZ-Robert. The management of Standard Motor Products, Inc. is deeply saddened by the passing of Robert Swartz, an esteemed member of their Board of Directors, on Tuesday, July 24, 2001. In his 50-year association with the company he provided valued counsel and vision. His leadership wil
 ZIMMERMAN - Douglas Alan. April 10, 1950 to July 27, 2000. It has been one year since our Douglas passed away. His laughter and extravagance, his delight in living, are remembered with joy. He is dearly loved and deeply missed. Alana, Beth, Ali, Rebecca, and Mark       
 Robert O. Lowery, the city's first black fire commissioner who served at a time when arson-fueled blazes raged through the city's minority neighborhoods, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 85 and had homes in Washington Heights and on the island of St. Vincent, his daughter Trudy 
 Dr. Dave Freeman, the only American man to win a world singles championship in badminton and the only one to be ranked No. 1 in the world, died June 28 at San Diego Hospice. Freeman, who lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., was 80 and had Merkle cell carcinoma, his family said. Until t
 Don Sunseri, an artist, teacher and the founding director of Grace, an art workshop program for the handicapped and elderly that became a national model, died on July 19 at his home in West Glover, Vt. He was 62. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Carol Putnam, managing director 
 Jack Ubaldi, a restaurateur and butcher who won renown late in life as a cooking teacher and co-author of a book about meat, died on July 14 at his home in Queens. He was 90. He had retired as a butcher and was teaching in the Culinary Arts Program at the New School in 1986 when the
 Otto Wittmann, former director of the Toledo Museum of Art, died on July 14 in Montecito, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Wittmann, who retired from the Toledo Museum in 1977, was widely credited with having built it into a world-class institution. He made notable acquisitions in the fields o
 EBNER-Gerald J. Of Tenafly, New Jersey on July 27th, 2001, former Councilman of the Borough of Tenafly. Business, civic and community leader. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of Lawrence, Eugene and Randall. Brother of Alan. Loving grandfather of Elizabeth, Rachel and Casey Jill. 
 HEISNER-Randall. On July 26, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Selma Heisner. Loving father of Carol Lee and Linda Heisner. Passed away peacefully at the age of 93 with his family at his bedside. Services Sinai Chapel, Sunday, July 29, 12:30 PM, 162-05 Horace Harding Expwy., Fresh Meadows. 
 KAHN-Jesse. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its Beloved Founder, Member and Honorary Vice President. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KESSELHAUT-Glenn D. HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, joins the family of our past President, Martin Kesselhaut, in mourning the loss of Glenn Kesselhaut, a beloved son, who passed away July 25, 2001. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to the entire family. May his memory be for a ble
 LEVINE-Jonathan David. Died on Thursday, July 26, 2001 at the age of 23. He was born on November 25, 1977 in NYC to Linda Wagner and Charles Levine. At the age of nine, Jonathan moved to Milford, Pennsylvania and resided in Conashaugh Lakes with his mother. After graduating from Delaware Va
 MORGANA-G. Morley Jr., on July 11, 2001. Most beloved friend, son, brother, cousin and uncle, whose lives his spirit illuminated. He will be profoundly missed. No immediate plans for a memorial. ''Details to follow...''       
 SINGER-Milton, M.D. The Division of Gastroenterology of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the loss of our dear friend and respected colleague, Dr. Milton Singer. From his private practice in New Jersey, Dr. Singer travelled to Mount Sinai every week for decades to give the benefit of his teac
 STRONE-Dr. Bernard William. On July 27, 2001 after a long and valiant struggle with Parkinson's Disease. Beloved husband of Judith. Cherished father of Daniel and Michael and his wife Andrea. Adored grandfather of Noah and Joshua. Distinguished physician. His work is done. He may finally re
 Charles Granville Rob, a British-born surgeon who survived his baptism by fire in North Africa to operate on Sir Winston Churchill and Middle Eastern royalty and to teach generations of young physicians, died Thursday at a hospital in Berlin, Vt. He was 88 and lived in Bethesda, Md., and Mo
 Fabio Taglioni, an engineer and designer who led the transformation of the Ducati motorcycle from its origins as cheap transportation for Italians after World War II to a glamorous, high-performance machine that won racing laurels and the hearts of legions of recreational riders around the 
 BENVIN-Joseph. On July 25, 2001. Loving husband of Emily, loving father of Linda and Carol, loving grandfather of Garrett, Eric, Rachael, Tatiana, Brian and Katelyn. Poppy, you will always be part of our lives. Services will be held Monday, July 30, 10 AM, at St. Mary's R.C. Church, Manhass
 CLARKE-Laurence Breen. Of Manhattan, passed away suddenly on Friday, July 20, 2001 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a brief but valiant struggle with leukemia. Born in New York City in 1924 of William J. Clarke and Grace Breen Clark. Educated at Collegiate School in Manhattan, Yale U
 CONWAY-Stephen J.. 54. Former resident of London, England, died on Tuesday, July 24, 2001 in Overland Park, K.S. after a brief illness. Born in Mt. Kisco, New York, lived in London for the past 6 years. He was a graduate of Boston College and received his MBA at Harvard Business School. He 
 FERRIS-Louis A. A former stock broker with a seat on the NYSE and a Vice President at Prudential Bache & Company, died at his home in Harrison, NY on Friday, July 27, 2001. Mr. Ferris was born in New Orleans, LA on October 20, 1914. The cause was cancer his family said. Mr. Ferris was a Cap
 GREENSTEIN-Alan J. Of Bellerose, NY, on July 27, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Arlene. Beloved father of Mark, Sharon, Jennifer, Lisa, Abby, Stacey and David. Loving grandfather of Spencer, Styles, Stefani, Jenna, Justin, Tyler, Corey, Jake, Jessica and Steven. Services will be he
 GURSEL-Erol, M.D. On July 20, 2001. He was born in Istanbul, Turkey, June 20, 1931. He grew up in Turkey and came to the U.S. in 1961. He attended medical school in Istanbul and continued his medical education in New York. He completed great contributions to medicine. He is survived by his 
 KING-Peter. On July 10, 2001 in Moldova. Peter started his career designing for Calvin Klein Jeans & was still in the garment industry at the time of his death. Survived by daughters Julie King and Jamie Levitt. Funeral July 31, 2001, 10AM at Gutterman's Inc. For details call: 718-284-1500.
 LANDMAN-Professor Leo. The faculty, dean, students, and board of directors of Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies of Yeshiva University mourn the loss of their former dean and distinguished colleague. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, children, and the entire fami
 MOORE-Philip Walsh. Age 81, died in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. July 18, 2001 after a short illness. He is survived by his devoted wife, Phaedra; daughter Jourdan Houston, (Colorado); son Thomas Moore, (Miami); son Ned Moore, (Virginia); six grandchildren; and sister Louise Immer of Thun, Switze
 MOSS-Frederick. The Trustees of the Cincinnati Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange are saddened by the passing of Cincinnati's Chairman. We will miss his counsel, his inquisitive mind, and his sense of humor. The Exchanges send their deepest sympathies to Jan and the other
 PECK-Albert, on June 20, 2001, died peacefully surrounded by his wife Kay, daughters Susan & Sara, and grandchildren Anika & Jesse. Donations to Hospice of S.E.C.T.,, 179 Gallivan Rd, Uncasville, CT 06382. For information, call Neilan Funeral Home, 860-443-1871       
 REIBEL-Nathan. Died peacefully at Hackensack University Hospital on July 27. He was 94 years old. He practiced law in Elizabeth, NJ, for 65 years and was a past president of the Union County Bar Association. He was married to Helen Welt for 70 years, and will be greatly missed by her, his s
 STRONE-Dr. Bernard William. On July 27, 2001 after a long and valiant struggle with Parkinson's Disease. Beloved husband of Judith. Cherished father of Daniel and Michael and his wife Andrea. Adored grandfather of Noah and Joshua. Distinguished physician. His work is done. He may finally re
 WALKER-Peter R. On July 20, at home in New Orleans, of lung cancer, age 54. Artist, designer, playwright, caricaturist. Graduate of Cooper Union 1968. Survived by his wife Katherine, children Mina and Raphael, parents Grace and Harry.       
 WOOLF-Leopold. Of Boynton Beach, FL and Somers, NY died July 24 at age 77, after a heroic effort to recover from complications following a kidney transplant. Born in Vienna, Austria, emigrated to the US in 1939. He attended Columbia University and University of Chicago. He served in the U.S
 Bertie Felstead, the last known surviving member of the British battalion in World War I that laid down its weapons to play soccer with the Germans in a spontaneous and long-remembered Christmas truce of 1915, died July 22 in Gloucester, England. He was 106. The truce lasted perhaps
 Edward Gierek, Poland's Western-oriented Communist leader for 10 years until he was toppled in 1980 by food protests and strikes that led to the creation of Solidarity, the Soviet bloc's first independent trade union, died yesterday in the southern Polish town of Cieszyn, Reuters reported. 
 Harold Land, a West Coast tenor saxophonist who had a brush with the jazz pantheon through a brief tenure with the Clifford Brown-Max Roach Quintet in the mid-1950's, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 73 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Lydia.    
 BENVIN-Joseph. On July 25, 2001. Loving husband of Emily, loving father of Linda and Carol, loving grandfather of Garrett, Eric, Rachael, Tatiana, Brian and Katelyn. Poppy, you will always be part of our lives. Services will be held Monday, July 30, 10 AM, at St. Mary's R.C. Church, Manhass
 GANS-Maurice G. Attorney Extraordinaire, died peacefully at home on July 28, 2001. Son of the late Judge Julius and Sylvia Gans. Loved dearly by his wife Carol; daughters and sons-in-law, Linda and Jack Juppe, Judy and Michael Nash, Patrice and Howard Winston, Keri and Bart Labiner; son and
 GAVER-James H. Of Secaucus, NJ, on Thursday, July 26, 2001. Mr. Gaver was a 1963 graduate of Yale University and was employed by the Federal Reserve Bank, New York, NY, from 1967 to 1997, where he rose to the position of Vice President. Beloved brother of Dean A. and Charles Gaver Jr. Lovin
 ISRAEL-Morton. On July 28, 2001. Survived by his loving wife of more than 60 years Eva, his children Emily & Larry Braunstein, & Nancy & Robert Valene, & two grandchildren Jordan & Joshua. Services were held Sunday.       
 KAHN-Jesse. Died at age 98 on July 27 after a short illness at his home in Great Neck, NY. He was the honorary vice president and had been for many years the counsel and a trustee of Temple Beth-El of Great Neck. He was a founding partner of the law firm of Safir & Kahn of Manhattan and a f
 LILIAN-Jordan. On July 28, 2001, surrounded by his loving family. Loving husband, proud father and grandfather. He is survived by Elaine, his wife of 11 years, his children Stuart, Jonathan, Ann and Brad, and nine grandchildren. His first wife Sylvia predeceased him in 1989. He was in the f
 MOORE-Philip Walsh. Age 81, died in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. July 18, 2001 after a short illness. He is survived by his devoted wife, Phaedra; daughter Jourdan Houston, (Colorado); son Thomas Moore, (Miami); son Ned Moore, (Virginia); six grandchildren; and sister Louise Immer of Thun, Switze
 MOSS-Frederick, 72. Died on July 27 after a long battle with cancer; his family was at his side. He is survived by his beloved family: wife, Jan; children, Rebecca Guyver, Benjamin Moss, Katherine Kehoe, Joseph Wayland; brother Gerald Moss; and nine grandchildren. A loving husband, father a
 PECK-Albert. July 20, at home, New London, CT, his wife Kay, daughters Susan & Sara, grandchildren Anika & Jesse by his side. For information, call 860-443-1871.       
 VAN INGEN-Bernard Joseph Jr. ''Bernie''. 78, of Jewett, NY, died on July 28, 2001, at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, NY. Survived by his loving wife Maria, daughter Cora and son B.J. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, 10 AM, at St. Theresa's R.C. Church, Windham, NY. Calling hours Monday,
 E. Lawrence Tabat, the former chairman and chief executive of the Dictaphone Corporation, a maker of dictating systems, which was acquired by Pitney Bowes, died on July 25 in Tequesta, Fla., where he lived. He was 88. Mr. Tabat joined Dictaphone as president and chief executive in 1
 Hugo Princz, a United States citizen who survived the Holocaust and won a 41-year battle for reparations from Germany, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Highland Park, N.J. He was 78. He eventually won an undisclosed part of a $2.1 million settlement, shared with 11 others, af
 DAIN-Harvey J. December 22, 1908-July 28, 2001. Former Director of the Post-Graduate Center for Mental Health in New York City. A decorated war hero. Survivors include his wife Beatrice, daughter Barbara Nemiroff of San Diego, sons Jeremy of NJ and Peter of NY, and six grandchildren.       
 FERRIS-Louis A. A former stock broker with a seat on the NYSE and a Vice President at Prudential Bache & Company, died at his home in Harrison, NY on Friday, July 27, 2001. Mr. Ferris was born in New Orleans, LA on October 20, 1914. The cause was cancer his family said. Mr. Ferris was a Cap
 GERSH-Harry. Died July 30. 88. Author, reporter and editor, speech writer for Gov. W. Averell Harrimon, public relations director for The Segal Company. Survived by his children John and Ruth, his niece Miriam Diamond and his nephew Paul Foreman. Funeral will be Thursday on Martha's Vineyar
 GREENFIELD-Alvin K. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Rabbis of Temple Avodah in Oceanside, N.Y. express their deepest sympathy to Sybil Greenfield and family on the passing of our dear friend, Alvin K. Greenfield. He was one of the founding fathers of this Temple and a beloved past Presi
 HIRSCH-Peter M. Age 65. On July 29, 2001, following a courageous battle with thyroid cancer. After studying Graphic Design at Pratt Institute, Peter became an art director at Douglas Simon, Inc. and subsequently a principal partner and Creative Director at DKG Advertising, which later becam
 HOLDEN-Richmond Young, Sr., of Weston, MA and Quogue, Long Island, NY on July 24, 2001. He was the former President of J.L. Hammett Co. and a late WW II Veteran. Husband of the late Mary Jane (Muzzy) Holden. Father of Richmond Y. Holden, Jr. of Doxbury, MA, Jeffrey S. Holden of Weston, MA, 
 HOPKINS-B. Smith, M.D., M.P.H. Of Larchmont, N.Y. age 53, of lymphoma. Williams College '69, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons '75, trained as a general surgeon and practiced at Roosevelt Hospital for 18 years, most recently as Associate Medical Director of St. LukesRoose
 KIDDE-John L. The Directors, Officers and Staff of Mahler & Emerson, Inc. deeply regret the loss of our esteemed friend, director and long-time supporter and express our condolences to his wife Ruth and his family. Herbert W. Mahler John W. Priesing       
 KRITZMAN-Bernard, bravura pianist, died July 20 at home in NYC. He was an authority on classical reproducing pianos. Survived by his beloved sister, Anne Gordon, and brothers, Calvin and Irwin.       
 NESENOFF-Norman of Syosset on July 29, 2001. Loving husband of Goldie. Beloved brother of Bernie and Judy, and Debbie and Arnie. Devoted father of Dr. Mitchell and Marjorie Nesenoff, Rabbi David and Nancy Nesenoff, Mr. Marc and Linda Lawrence, and Mr. Perry Nesenoff. Cherished grandfather o
 RIVKIN-Donald H., 77, on July 29. Loving father of David, Judith and Daniel, and their spouses, Marilyn, George Davison and Jennifer Conlin; beloved grandfather of Jessica, Katie, Sam, Alice, Harriet, Florence and Charles; brother of Mary Jane Pollack; and devoted husband of the late Lois B
 ROSENBAUM-Robert, on July 20, 2001. The faculty, staff and students of the Queens College Speech-Language-Hearing Program deeply mourn the death of Robert Lee Rosenbaum. His sensitivity, passion, wisdom, and enduring commitment, for almost half a century, to the undergraduate and graduate p
 SALZBERG-Dr. Daniel B., 87, orthodontist and environmentalist of Croton-on-Hudson, died on July 23rd. Survived by Norma, his loving wife of more than 64 years; children, Susan and Laurie of Croton, and Richard of Santa Cruz, California.       
 SERPICO-John R. on July 30, 2001, at age seventy-three. Beloved husband of Antoinette. Devoted and loving father of Helen Ann, Sebastian, Maddelen Lavoro, John Jr., and Ann Marie Kern. Cherished grandfather of Marlelle, Paul, Sebastian & Amanda. Also survived by his brothers and sisters Ral
 SHAIR-J. Bertram. On July 30, 2001. Retired attorney, administrative law judge for NYC and arbitrator for the American Arbitration Association. Survived by his wife Diana, his daughters, Phyllis and Carolyn, four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren. Visitation Tuesday, 6:30-8:30 PM 
 SHERMAN-Irving. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our friend and mentor, Irving Sherman. His tireless efforts enriched the lives of those he knew and saved the lives of many who had never heard his name.
 SINGER-Milton, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and long time friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey Freed, M.D., President William G. Stein, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M.
 SNYDER-Louis Irving Jr. Age 89, newspaperman, freelance journalist, and music critic, died July 26, 2001, in Fairfield, CT. Funeral services on Thursday, August 2, 2001, at 11:00 A.M. in St. Timothy's Episcopal Church, Congress St., Fairfield, CT. Contributions in his name may be made to th
 STRONE-Bernard W., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and long time friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extented to his entire family. Jeffrey Freed, M.D., President William G. Stein, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla
 SWARTZ-Robert. With the passing of Robert Swartz, Bed Bath & Beyond has lost not only a dedicated and extremely capable director, but we have lost a wonderful and loyal friend. From the day the company opened its first door in 1971, Bob was always there to lend his wisdom and experience in 
