 George Rochberg, an American composer who broke ranks with the rigorous modernism of the mid-century avant-garde to write music of rare urgency and candor, died on Sunday at a hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 86 and made his home in Newtown Square, Pa. The cause was complications o
 Herbert Warren Wind, whose richly detailed prose graced the pages of The New Yorker and Sports Illustrated for 43 years and established him as the dean of American golf writers, died Monday in an assisted-living facility in Bedford, Mass. He was 88. The cause was pneumonia, said his
 John D'Amico, a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame who worked as a National Hockey League linesman for 23 years, died Sunday in Toronto. He was 67. The cause was leukemia and bone cancer, the league said. D'Amico served as an N.H.L. official from 1964 to 1987, working numerou
 Forrest Perrin, a pianist and orchestra leader who for decades provided the soundtrack for society and fashion events, died on Friday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 88 and lived on the West Side of Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Perrin le
 George Mikan, the Minneapolis Lakers center who was the first superstar in modern professional basketball and a player so big and so dominant that college and pro rules were changed in an effort to handcuff him, died Wednesday at a rehabilitation center in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 80.      
 Gershon Jacobson, the founder, editor and publisher of Der Algemeiner Journal, one of the largest Yiddish-language weekly newspapers in North America, died on Sunday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was complications of diabetes, his 
 Israel Epstein, a journalist, author and propagandist for China whose passion for Communism was fueled in long interviews with Mao in the 1940's and was not dimmed by imprisonment during the Cultural Revolution, died last Thursday at a hospital in Beijing. He was 90. His death was a
 Paul Hallingby Jr., an investment banker who helped develop the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, died yesterday at his home in Sutton Place in Manhattan. He was 85 and also had homes in Southampton and in Lyford Cay, Bahamas. His death was announced by his wife, Jo Davis H
 William S. Lieberman, a legendary museum figure who held top curatorial posts at both the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, steering major collections to the institutions, died in his sleep at his home in Manhattan on the night of May 31. He was 82. The appare
 George Mikan, the Minneapolis Lakers center who was the first superstar in modern professional basketball and a player so big and so dominant that college and pro rules were changed in an effort to handcuff him, died Wednesday at a rehabilitation center in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 80.      
 William S. Lieberman, a legendary museum figure who held top curatorial posts at both the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, steering major collections to the institutions, died in his sleep at his home in Manhattan on the night of May 31. He was 82. The appare
 Dr. E. Harris Nober, an audiologist who helped establish national standards for loudness in the alarms of residential smoke detectors and introduced strobe flashes to alert the hearing impaired, died on May 23 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 77. The cause was liver cancer, his 
 Leslie Smith, who for several decades after World War II was the world's largest automaker, at least in part because he made the world's smallest autos, died on May 26 at his home in North London. Mr. Smith, a founder, president and longtime chief executive of Matchbox Toys, was 87.        
 Dale Velzy, a master surfboard maker widely considered one of the men responsible for the rise of the California surfer culture in the years after World War II, died on May 26 at a hospital in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 77 and lived in San Clemente. The cause was lung cancer, said
 Robert Plate, a freelance writer and author of historical biographies for young people, died on May 14 at his brother's home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 86 and formerly lived in Woodstock, N.Y. His death, after a long illness, was announced by his family. Mr. Plate wrote ''
 Walter Schaap, a jazz fan who became one of the first jazz scholars, died in New York on May 28. He was 87 and lived in Hollis, Queens. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, the jazz historian and broadcaster Phil Schaap. Mr. Schaap studied French history at Columbia U
 Dr. Marshall S. Horwitz, a virologist at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine who studied potential keys to the immune system held by adenoviruses, a group of about 40 DNA viruses often affecting children, died on Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital on Long Island. He was 68 and l
 Jon Idígoras, a founder of the Basque separatist party that is considered the political arm of the militant group ETA, died Friday at the Vicente San Sebastián de Deusto Clinic in Bilbao, Spain. He was 69, and lived in nearby Amorebieta. The cause was complications from a respirat
 Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, the scholarly Mexican diplomat and politician whose independent struggle for democracy helped end 71 years of single-party rule but whose outspokenness infuriated leaders on both sides of the border, was killed Sunday in a traffic accident while driving back from his 
 Dr. Benjamin D. Paul, a medical anthropologist at Stanford University who edited an influential textbook on ways that traditional communities struggle to accept health innovations, died on May 24 in a nursing home in Atlanta. He was 94. The cause was complications stemming from a st
 Hy Peskin, a master action photographer who took some of the most arresting sports images of the 1940's, 50's and 60's before starting a second career as a philanthropist and entrepreneur under the name Brian Blaine Reynolds, died in Israel last Thursday. He was 89. His death was an
 Floriano Vecchi, an Italian-born artist, silkscreen printer and art publisher of the Warhol era in Greenwich Village, died on Friday at his home in the Village. He was 84. His death was announced by a friend, Rick Whitaker of the Italian Academy at Columbia University. Mr. V
 Sylvan Cole, an internationally recognized art dealer who helped foster the explosion of printmaking and print collecting in the United States in the decades after World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 and also had a Fire Island home on Long Island. The 
 Arthur Dunkel, a self-effacing Swiss diplomat who shepherded negotiators from five continents through more than seven years of contentious talks that led to freer trade and the creation of the World Trade Organization in 1995, died Wednesday in Geneva. He was 72. His death followed 
 David L. Weld, a biologist who at his death was the executive director of the American Lyme Disease Foundation, died on Sunday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 66. The cause was cancer, said Mr. Weld's brother William F. Weld, the former Massachusetts governor. David 
 Howard Boyer, a former editor at Harvard University Press who published the work of prominent scientists like Stephen Jay Gould, Edward O. Wilson and Ernst Mayr, died on May 4 in a hospice in San Francisco. He was 61 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was hepatitis, his former wi
 Hamilton Naki, a laborer who became a self-taught surgeon of such skill that Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard chose him to assist in the world's first human heart transplant in 1967, but whose contribution was kept secret for three decades because he was a black man in apartheid-era South Africa, 
 Dr. Jack Munushian, a scientist in the aerospace industry and an educator at the University of Southern California who helped establish an innovative system to broadcast lectures to students off campus, died on May 28 in Los Angeles. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, said a cl
 Roger G. Hall, a former executive for classical music at RCA Victor, died on Monday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 79. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Katherine Knight Hall. As the director of artists and repertory at RCA's Red Seal im
 Dr. Victor Wouk, an electrical engineer and entrepreneur who built one of the first hybrid cars, operating on both gasoline and electricity, died at his home in Manhattan on May 19. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said his son Jordan. Dr. Wouk's hybrid, a modified 1972 Buic
 Capt. Slade D. Cutter, one of the Navy's most highly decorated submarine captains of World War II and a star athlete at the United States Naval Academy in the 1930's, died on Thursday in Annapolis, Md. He was 93. His death was announced by the United States Naval Academy Alumni Asso
 David Whitney, a respected curator and prominent collector of contemporary art who was Philip Johnson's companion, acerbic alter ego and behind-the-scenes art adviser for more than 40 years, died on Sunday at the NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. He was 66. The cause was 
 Richard Eberhart, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet considered one of the foremost writers of lyric verse in the 20th century, died on Thursday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 101. Mr. Eberhart's daughter, Gretchen Eberhart Cherington, confirmed the death. The author of seve
 Álvaro Cunhal, the longtime leader of Portugal's Communists and a faithful supporter of hard-line Stalinist views even as other Western European Communist parties shed their revolutionary slogans in the past two decades, died Monday, the Portuguese Communist Party announced. He was 91.    
 David Diamond, a major American composer whose early brilliance in the 1940's was eclipsed by the dominance of atonal music but who later experienced a renaissance, died on Monday evening. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Samuel Elliott, a close friend who too
 Carlo Maria Giulini, the esteemed Italian conductor, an idealistic maestro acclaimed for his refined and insightful accounts of the standard orchestral repertory and for several now classic recordings of operas by Mozart and Verdi, died on Tuesday in Brescia in northern Italy. He was 91 and
 Verne Meisner, a virtuoso accordionist and bandleader who helped keep the polka alive and swinging into the age of rock and beyond, died on Friday in Milwaukee. He was 66 and lived in Waukesha, Wis. The cause was complications of melanoma, his son Steve said. Considered one 
 Dr. Zoltan Ovary, an immunologist at New York University who conducted groundbreaking experiments that helped establish the mechanism that sets off allergic reactions, died on Sunday at N.Y.U. Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 98. The cause was pneumonia, said a close friend and c
 Edward Tinsley Chase, a retired book editor and writer who bought and shepherded hundreds of manuscripts, primarily on politics and public policy, into print at various New York publishing houses, died on June 9 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 86 and also had a home 
 Ross Stretton, an Australian dancer whose elegant classical style made him highly visible in leading roles with American Ballet Theater and the Joffrey Ballet in the 1980's before he became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and then, briefly, the Royal Ballet in London, died in Mel
 Joe Belden, who in 1940 founded the Texas Poll, the first statewide opinion survey and a model for others that followed, died on Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 90. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Belden's scrupulous methodology helped opin
 Robert F. Maguire Jr., the chief pilot of Operation Magic Carpet, which evacuated more than 40,000 Jewish refugees from Yemen to the newly created state of Israel between late 1948 and early 1950, died on June 10 at his home in Northridge, Calif. He was 94. He died of natural causes
 Dr. William J. Thaler, an experimental physicist of the Cold War era who helped design an early electronic surveillance system for the Navy that was used to monitor missile tests and satellite launchings worldwide, died on June 5 at his home in Centreville, Va. He was 79. The cause 
 Morris Cohen, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who helped to transform the field of metallurgy into the modern discipline of materials science and engineering, died on May 27 at his home in Swampscott, Mass. He was 93. He had been suffering from heart problem
 The Rev. Paul Abrecht, an ethicist who, under the auspices of the World Council of Churches, took a leading role in formulating mainstream Christianity's response to modern ethical challenges for more than three decades, died on May 21 at his home in Geneva. He was 87. His death was
 J.J. Pickle, a protégé of Lyndon B. Johnson who served in the House of Representatives for 31 years and was a zealous protector of Social Security, died on Saturday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 91. The causes were prostate cancer and lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Pi
 John V. Thornton, a former vice chairman of Consolidated Edison, died on June 11 in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 81. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his son, John. . Mr. Thornton worked at Consolidated Edison for 20 years, starting as an assistant general
 Cardinal Jaime L. Sin, the powerful Roman Catholic archbishop of Manila who used his influence to champion the rights of the poor and rally the widespread popular resistance that brought down the presidencies of Ferdinand E. Marcos and Joseph Estrada, died early today in Manila, a spokesman
 James Weinstein, the founder and longtime editor and publisher of the progressive magazine In These Times, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 78. The cause was brain cancer, the magazine's editors announced. Published twice a month, In These Times is concerned, 
 John Lawrence Collins Jr., a journalist and author known as Larry Collins, whose best-selling books included ''Is Paris Burning?'' and ''O Jerusalem!,'' died yesterday in Fréjus in the south of France. He was 75 and lived in Ramatuelle, on the Riviera. The cause was a brain hemorrh
 Ray Budde, an education professor who defined the term charter school and stated the ideas that led to a nationwide school reform movement, died on June 11 in Springfield, Mass. He was 82. The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Scott. He had lung cancer and non-Hodgkin's l
 Cyril I. Nelson, a prominent collector of American folk art who donated about 150 pieces to the permanent collection of the American Folk Art Museum in New York, died on June 1 in Fairfield, Conn. He was 78. A longtime resident of New York City, Mr. Nelson had lived in Fairfield for the las
 Jack S. Kilby, an electrical engineer whose invention of the integrated circuit gave rise to the information age and heralded an explosion of consumer electronics products in the last 50 years, from personal computers to cellphones, died Monday in Dallas. He was 81. His death, after
 Billy Bauer, one of the first modern jazz guitarists and later a renowned guitar teacher, died on Friday in Melville, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Albertson, N.Y. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his daughter, Pamela. Mr. Bauer first gained national attention in
 Dr. Charles D. Keeling, who set off current concerns of global warming through measurements beginning in the 1950's that showed steadily rising amounts of carbon dioxide in the air, died Monday at his home in Montana. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack after a short hike, said 
 Dr. Eugene Stead Jr., a medical educator who created the country's first program for physician assistants at Duke University in the 1960's, died on June 12 at his home in Bullock, N.C. He was 96. He died in his sleep, said his son, William Stead. In the 1960's, as chairman o
 Gen. Bernard A. Schriever, who oversaw the Air Force's development of intercontinental ballistic missiles and other rockets that ushered in the space age and escalated the weapons race with the Soviet Union, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 94. The cause was complica
 Louis R. Lucas, a Tennessee lawyer who came to prominence in the drawn-out battles over school desegregation and busing resulting from the Brown v. Board of Education decision of 1954, died on Monday in Memphis. He was 70 and lived in suburban Germantown, Tenn. He died after a long 
 Chris Griffin, a trumpet player who was heard at Carnegie Hall with Benny Goodman and in millions of living rooms with the orchestras on the Ed Sullivan and Jackie Gleason shows, died on June 18 in Danbury, Conn. He was 89 and lived in Southbury, Conn. The cause was melanoma, said h
 Gen. Louis H. Wilson Jr., who received the Medal of Honor in World War II and served as commandant of the Marine Corps in the aftermath of the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday at his home in Homewood, Ala., a Birmingham suburb. He was 85. His death was announced by the corps. He had a d
 Nahum Sarna, a biblical scholar who did notable translations of Scripture for modern readers, notably his work on the Jewish Publication Society's ''Torah (New Translation),'' died on Thursday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 82, and a former resident of Newton, Mass. The deat
 John Sahag, a Manhattan hairstylist for many celebrities with a dry-cut method that challenged the old routine of shampoo, rinse and repeat at upscale beauty salons, died on June 15 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 53. The cause was cancer, according to a statement released 
 John Fiedler, who played character roles in celebrated dramas on Broadway and in Hollywood but gained lasting fame among young audiences as the voice of Piglet in Walt Disney's Winnie-the-Pooh films, died on Saturday. He was 80. His death was confirmed by his brother, James.        
 Donald D. Buchanan, a mechanical engineer and NASA official who played a leading role in designing the powerful ''crawler'' vehicles that carried rockets to their launching sites in the 1960's and 70's and that became indispensable in later space missions, died on June 13 at his home in Tit
 Isidore Cohen, a violinist who, as a member of the Juilliard String Quartet and the Beaux Arts Trio, was an important chamber music performer and a teacher, died on Thursday in the Bronx. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Cohen's death was announced by Frank Salomon, an administ
 Thomas Gilmore Pownall, the former chief executive of Martin Marietta who warded off a hostile takeover bid in the early 1980's with a novel strategy that came to be called the Pac-Man defense, died near his home in Potomac, Md., on Friday. He was 83. The cause was pneumonia, his fa
 Shelby Foote, the historian whose incisive, seasoned commentary -- delivered in a drawl so mellifluous that one critic called it ''molasses over hominy'' -- evoked the Civil War for millions in the 11-hour PBS documentary in 1990, died on Monday at a Memphis hospital He was 88 and lived in 
 Al Loving, a prominent abstract painter and collage artist whose work explored the ways color, space, line and form play out in vibrant counterpoint, died on June 21 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in Kerhonkson, N.Y. The cause was complic
 Thomas D. Clark, a historian of the American frontier who was long the historian laureate of Kentucky, died on Tuesday in Lexington. He was 101. His death was announced by his family and by Gov. Ernie Fletcher, who noted that the Kentucky History Center would be renamed for Dr. Clar
