 Jaime Benítez Rexach, a former chancellor and president of the University of Puerto Rico who from 1972 to 1976 was the island's nonvoting representative in Congress, died on Wednesday in a hospital in San Juan. He was 92. Under Mr. Benítez, who became chancellor in 1942, the Unive
 BARNETT-Rabbi Isidore. We mourn the death of our beloved colleague, age 94. He served pulpits in Savannah, Georgia and in the Philadelphia area, retiring from Beth Uziel in 1971. After retirement, he continued to serve as a chaplain of Inglis House in Philadelphia until his second retiremen
 BLAUSTEIN-Sara. The Ratner and Popowitz families and all the employees of Joseph Ratner Company grieve with our dear friend Norman Blaustein and his family over the cold blooded and brutal murder in Israel of his beloved wife, Sara. Words are utterly inadequate to express our heartbreak, so
 CERUSSI-Michael A. Died on May 30, 2001, after a prolonged illness. He was 77, and lived in Harrison, NY. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Anne; sons Michael A. Jr. of Greenwich, CT, and Thomas F. of Stamford, CT; daughters Rosemary Ferrer of Greenwich, CT, and Nancy A. McEnaney of R
 KATZ-Rabbi Dr. Leon. Beloved husband of Rebbitzin Rhea Katz. Cherished father of Shimon and Nancy Katz, and Avram and Dr. Nadine Katz. Devoted brother of Rabbi Michael and Rebbitzin Hinda Katz. Adored grandfather. Served the Passaic and Clifton, NJ, communities as rabbi and rabbi emeritus o
 KIAM-Victor K. Dear Victor, a heart of gold and charisma, a unique combination. My hero and beloved confidante and friend. You know you were my personal and professional role model and mentor. An uncanny ability to make everyone around you feel incredibly special. You gave to all without ex
 McMURRAY-Joseph P. On May 31, 2001, of East Atlantic Beach, NY. Past president of Queens College, Queensboro Community College, College of New Rochelle. Beloved husband of the late Isabelle, mother of his children, and Rose Marie. Dear father of Gerald R., Joseph P. Jr., Kathleen M. Nelson,
 MENDIK-Bernard H. The Board of Governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of its leader for the last decade and a giant in our industry, Bernard H. Mendik. Bernie loved and cared about New York and he played an integral part in shaping its skyline. B
 MOSS-Irving. May 30, 2001. Beloved husband of Evelyn, loving father of Patricia Vernam and her husband Kenneth, Michael Moss and his wife Claudia. Cherished grandfather of Sara, Daniel and Benjamin. Everyone who knew him was touched by his goodness. Funeral service Friday June 1, 2001, 1:30
 RAYMOND - Paul. (1916 - 2001). Paul Raymond, beloved father of three, passed away on May 26, 2001, of heart failure-however, his warmth of heart will always remain with us. He was born with the name of Nejatollah Farrokh Tavana in Iran. When he was a baby, he survived a serious illnesshis n
 SILVIAN-Slomo. Born in Romania, died peacefully May 31, 2001. Loving husband of Cindy. Devoted brother to Butsa and her huband Herman, who reside in Israel. Also devoted uncle and great-uncle. He was very instrumental in forming an adult home association. He was an ardent supporter and gene
 TEFARIKI-Demitri. May 30, 2001 at age 80. Former husband of Alice. Beloved father of Helen Tefariki Lifgren and Philip Tefariki, cherished grandfather of Philip, Stephany, Sofia, Demitri, Nikolette and Francis. Mr. Tefariki was born and raised in Alexandria, Egypt, immigrated to Greece and 
 ZIMM-Karl-Heinz Wilhelm. Of Bradenton, FL, on May 30, 2001. Resident of Manhasset, NY, for twenty plus years. Devoted father of Michael and father-in-law of Diane. Proud grandfather of Julia and Eric. Co-founder of Power Cooling Inc. Loved the fine arts, history, science and his gardens. Vi
 William J. Curtis, who held high posts at the Horn & Hardart Baking Company of Philadelphia and the Horn & Hardart Company in New York, died on May 16 in Long Beach, N.Y. He was 92 and lived in Point Lookout, N.Y. In 1959, Mr. Curtis was made executive vice president of the baking c
 Hank Ketcham, who fathered the cartoon character Dennis the Menace, the freckle-face scamp in droopy overalls whose mischievous childhood has endured for 50 years and amused a worldwide audience, died yesterday at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 81. In March a half-century of the 
 Li Kwoh-ting, a driving force behind Taiwan's transformation into an economic power, died on Thursday. He was 91. Mr. Li, better known in Taiwan as K. T. Li, was a senior presidential adviser and former minister of economics and minister of finance. He was hospitalized in Ta
 FELDMAN-Dr. Theodore. Patient, loving, understanding, adored husband of Judy Feldman. Deeply beloved father of Carol (Michael) Hagstedt and David (Barbra) Feldman. ''Cherished'' grandfather of Elizabeth and Tracey Hagstedt and Samantha Feldman. Loving brother of Seth Feldman. Passed away on
 FISCHER-Abel. On June 1st, 2001. Beloved husband of Francine. Loving father of Judy, Rick and his wife, Leslie. Dear brother of John. Adoring grandfather of Cameron and Sydney. Memorial service Sunday, 2:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 McMURRAY-Joseph P. On May 31, 2001, of East Atlantic Beach, NY. Past president of Queens College, Queensboro Community College, College of New Rochelle. Beloved husband of the late Isabelle, mother of his children, and Rose Marie. Dear father of Gerald R., Joseph P. Jr., Kathleen M. Nelson,
 MENDIK-Bernard. The Advisory Board, Faculty and Students of the Real Estate Institute of New York University mourn the passing of Bernard Mendik, and extend condolences to the Mendik Family. Bernie was a friend, advisor and teacher of the Real Estate Insititute and we will miss his support 
 TORTORA-Leonard. At sunrise, May 31, 2001. (Retired NYC Department of Housing). Survived by his brother Richard; his son Leonard Jr; and seven grandchildren. Also survived by an extended family of loving friends. Beloved father of the late Karen. Reposing at Martin A. Gleason Funeral Home, 
 WILDE-David M. On May 22, 2001, in Scarsdale, NY. Graduate of Yale 1940. Beloved widower of Joan Bennett, loving father of Amanda D. Wilde and Jennifer W. Lovejoy. He will be sorely missed.       
 King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev, who was shot to death on Friday in a massacre of Nepal's royal family, was a proud but isolated monarch whose reign began in absolutism and ended in uneasy partnership with democracy. But it was a uniquely Nepalese  democracy, with a fractious poli
 David X. Young, a painter whose rodent-infested, illegally rented loft became a citadel of jazz improvisation and experimentation in the 1950's and 60's, died on May 22 in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Eliza Alys Young. The loft, in a
 Freddie Trenkler, a comic ice skater known for his ingenious and well-timed stumbles and falls, died on May 21 in Canoga Park, Calif. He was 88, according to the IceStage Archive of Minneapolis. The tiny and impish skater, who favored ragged clothes and a beat-up hat as his costume,
 BERLINER-Dr. Benjamin C. A memorial celebration of Dr. Ben's life will be held at 11AM, Sunday, June 10, in the Chapel of Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, located on Fort Washington Ave, just N. of 165th St. All those whose lives he may have touched are welcomed.       
 CHO-Jin. May 22, 2001. 24 years old. Everyone who knew Jin has been deeply affected by this tragic loss. He lived on the Upper East Side and worked as a real estate agent at Prince Properties LLC, while pursuing a degree in sociology. As a child, Jin emigrated from Korea to New York with hi
 HANNAN-Joseph. An advertising executive, died at New York Hospital on May 30, 2001. He was 71. Mr. Hannan was senior vice president and member of the Board of Directors at Benton & Bowles, later DMB&B, where he was responsible for the Texaco account. He introduced Texaco to a long and succe
 HAYWARD-Howard Boynton. 85, of Vero Beach, FL, died May 26, 2001, at Indian River Estates Medical Center. Mr. Hayward was born February 21, 1916, in Brooklyn, NY, resided in Scarsdale, NY, for 60 years. He was raised in Bronxville, NY. He was a graduate of the Lawrenceville School in Lawren
 HUSSEINI-Feisal. Meretz USA mourns a man of peace and reconciliation. Condolences to his wife, family and all Palestinians and Israelis dedicated to peace. May we all see an end to violence and the murder of innocents. Harold M. Shapiro, President Charney V. Bromberg, Exec Dir       
 LAMBERG-Ingolf H. Of Chatham, MA, died Friday, June 1, 2001. He is survived by his beloved wife Isabel.       
 McGOVERN-John H., MD. Retired Professor of Surgery, Department of Urology, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and past President of the American Urological Association, died on May 28, 2001, in Sarasota, FL. Born in Bayonne, NJ, Dr. McGovern built a successful urology practice in Manh
 McMURRAY-Joseph P. On May 31, 2001, of East Atlantic Beach, NY. Past president of Queens College, Queensboro Community College, College of New Rochelle. Beloved husband of the late Isabelle, mother of his children, and Rose Marie. Dear father of Gerald R., Joseph P. Jr., Kathleen M. Nelson,
 OSTROWER-Arnold. At sunrise, on June 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Ellen, devoted brother of Rhoma, uncle, great-uncle, greatgreat-uncle, marvelous friend. He was born with the gift of laughter and a sense of the magic of words. Above all, he was a good and gentle man. We will miss him so muc
 TORTORA-Leonard. At sunrise, May 31, 2001. (Retired NYC Department of Housing). Survived by his brother Richard; his son Leonard Jr; and seven grandchildren. Also survived by an extended family of loving friends. Beloved father of the late Karen. Reposing at Martin A. Gleason Funeral Home, 
 Robert L. Benney, a prolific painter and illustrator who belonged to the vanishing breed of American combat artists, died on May 14 in Boston. He was 97 and had recently moved to Boston from Manhattan. Mr. Benney was widely shown, starting with an exhibition of theater drawings at t
 Anthony Quinn, whose six-decade acting career established the enduring image of a joyful primitive with a fierce passion for life, died yesterday at a Boston hospital. He was 86 and lived in Bristol, R.I., near Providence. The cause was respiratory failure, said a hospital spokeswom
 Gene Woodling, whose smooth batting swing and superb play in left field helped the Yankees win five consecutive World Series championships, died Saturday at a nursing home in Wadsworth, Ohio. He was 78. Woodling had been in failing health since suffering a stroke in 1997, his wife, 
 BERLINER-Dr. Benjamin C. A memorial celebration of Dr. Ben's life will be held at 11AM, Sunday, June 10, in the Chapel of Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, located on Fort Washington Ave, just N. of 165th St. All those whose lives he may have touched are welcomed.       
 CHERNEY-Max. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 FEIGIN-William M. Of Levittown, on June 2, 2001, age 80. Beloved husband of Dora for 55 years. Loving father of Philip (Barbara) Denver, CO, Andrew (Mimi) Huntington Station, NY. Proud grandfather of Lauren, Benjamin and Hannah. Eternal optimist and friend to all who knew him. Veteran of th
 KATZ-Rabbi Dr. Leon. Religious Zionists of America Mizrachi mourns the passing of a very distinguished and devoted leader of our movement for decades. He served as Chairman of Vaad Lechinuch, founded our branches in Passaic and New Jersey. He was instrumental in attracting to our cause many
 MEYERSON - Morris ''Mac'', D.D.S. Died June 3, at 96. Beloved by many on the Lower East Side and Wynmore, FL. He is survived by his son Arthur Meyerson, M.D., three grandchildren, one greatgrandchild and his brother. Active and a leader in the Henry Street Settlement (Old Timers) and the Kn
 OSTROWER-Arnold. At sunrise, on June 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Ellen, devoted brother of Rhoma, uncle, great-uncle, greatgreat-uncle, marvelous friend. He was born with the gift of laughter and a sense of the magic of words. Above all, he was a good and gentle man. We will miss him so muc
 PETERS-Arthur King. Age 81, died peacefully at home in Bronxville on June 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Sarah Whitaker Peters, devoted father of Robert Bruce, Margaret Allen, and Michael Whitaker, loving grandfather of Philip, Elizabeth, Sarah, Griffin, Mark, and Kate. A 1940 graduate of Corn
 SELIG-Charles. Died on June 2, 2001, after a brave battle with pancreatic cancer. His life was filled with many accomplishments, both professionally and personally. He founded his own insurance firm, Selig and Sussman, Inc., and took pride and pleasure in servicing his clients. He will be r
 SOBEL-Jesse. On June 2, 2001. Devoted husband of 60 years to Dr. Gertrude Russack Sobel and loving father to John, Jane and Bart. Grandfather to Jeff, Beth, Zach, Eric, Kacey and Stephanie. Jesse Sobel will be remembered as the owner/director of Camp Winaukee since 1935. He was an accomplis
 Tennyson Schad, a First Amendment lawyer whose brainchild, Light Gallery, was the bold commercial showcase for contemporary photographers in the 1970's and the training ground for an unusually large number of today's gallery directors, died on May 26 in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Man
 Wells C. Klein, a longtime advocate for the rights of immigrants and refugees wanting to settle in the United States, died April 5 at his home in Stowe, Vt. He was 74. Mr. Klein had spent most of his life reorganizing and reinvigorating  groups set up to help refugees and immigrants
 Dr. Abe Silverstein, a mechanical engineer who oversaw parts of  America's fledgling space program of the 1950's and 1960's, died on Friday at his home in Fairview Park, Ohio. He was 92. He went to work for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in 1929 and held leading pos
 James M. Fleetwood Jr., the chairman and chief executive of LifePoint Hospitals, died on Saturday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he was on vacation. He was 54 and lived in Nashville. The cause was apparently a heart attack, the company said in a statement. LifePoint was spu
 Joey Maxim, a light-heavyweight champion who was the only boxer to keep Sugar Ray Robinson from finishing a fight, died last Saturday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 79. The cause was complications of a stroke he had four months ago. He had been hospitalized in Clevela
 AHNERT-Robert M. of Bushkill, Pennsylvania and Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Died on May 22, 2001 in Fort Lauderdale. He is survived by his wife Margaret, a son David, his brother Harry, and five grandchildren. A memorial Mass will be held at St. Matthews Catholic Church, Ridgeway Street, East 
 CHERVIN-Joseph. Loving husband of Suzanne, devoted father of Matthew and Erica, and Douglas and Theodore. Funeral services today 10 A.M. at I.J. Morris Inc, 46 Greenwich St., Hempstead, NY, CHERVIN-Joseph. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved m
 HANDLEY-Walter. Died peacefully at home on May 31. Born in Vienna in 1904, he married Margaret Loewe in 1934 and ran both families' businesses. In 1938 he started a new life in England but came to New York as the war drew closer. In 1945 he founded Handcraft Inc. where, as a well respected 
 HATTEM-Solomon, age 87, died peacefully with his family by his side on June 2nd, 2001 in Tamarac, FL. Loving husband of 54 years to Leonore Hattem and devoted father of Esther, Albert, Gary and Dave. Also survived by six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Former President of Uneeda 
 LEEDS-Richard L. Passed away May 11, 2001 in Camp Hill, PA. He was 88 and a former resident of Bronxville, N.Y. Survived by sons Richard L., Jr. of Mechanicsburg, PA and Thomas F. of Medfield, MA., daughter Linda L. Scott of San Juan Bautista, CA., seven grandchildren and two great grandchi
 LOWITT-Julian. The Board of Directors and staff of Fedcap Rehabilitation Services Inc. mourn the death of Executive Director Emeritus and Boardmember, Julian Lowitt. Julian dedicated his career to Fedcap, and the cause of independence and opportunity for people with disabilities through emp
 McGOVERN-John H., M.D. The Board of Trustees and Medical Board of Lenox Hill Hospital express sorrow at the passing of John H. McGovern, M.D., a distinguished member of our Urology Department for over 32 years. Dr. McGovern was a respected physician who was dedicated to the highest standard
 O'NEILL-John. The members, officers and staff of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union mourn the loss of John O'Neill, retired RWDSU Vice President and RWDSU Local 3 President. His selfless devotion to the cause of working people made a difference in the lives of generations of w
 PETZINER-Norman, 91, died suddenly, in his Delray Beach, FL home on June 2. He had been a long time resident of Westchester County, NY. Born in NYC, he was a graduate of Peter Stuyvesant High School and Columbia University School of Pharmacy. He had been a founding member and violionist in 
 QUINN-Anthony. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Anthony Quinn on June 3, 2001. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director QUINN-An
 SCHACHTER-Harry. A dear friend to all of us. A man of integrity and compassion. He will forever remain in our memories. Barry Tenzer and Family       
 SOBEL-Jesse (Doc). Beloved father and mentor to John and Bart, owner and director of Camp Winaukee for over 50 years and founder of the Winaukee Island Camp. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his dear wife, Gertrude, his children, Bart, John and Jane and to their families. The CampGroup F
 TODD-W. Duane, MD, June first, beloved husband of Dorothy Jane Keith. Father of George Damon Todd and Alison Keith Todd Cokorinos. Grandfather of Emily and Katherine Cokorinos. Brother of Donald Todd. Donations in his memory may be made to the Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, CT, or Sloane Hosp
 CUFFE-Edward W. 2/16/36-6/5/96. A pirate between piracies-Fall River Irishman in search of original sin. He ran money like Rimbaud ran guns. Bars and cemeteries are full of good friends. He was born with the gift of laughter and with a feeling that the world was mad. This was his entire inh
 Sir Harold Ridley, an ophthalmologist and developer of the operation to replace cataract-scarred lenses, died on May 25 in Salisbury, England, after a cerebral hemorrhage. He was 94. His innovation, in 1949, was met with great opposition from the British medical establishment, but s
 John Hartford, a versatile musician known for mastering banjo, playing violin, performing comedy on television and writing one of country music's most recorded songs, ''Gentle on My Mind,'' died on Monday at the Centennial Medical Center in Nashville. He was 63. The cause was cancer
 Michael Sonnabend, the husband of the art dealer Ileana Sonnabend and a familiar, approachable presence on the downtown art scene, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 101. From the 1970's to the mid-90's, the diminutive Mr. Sonnabend could often be found chatting with vi
 BOYCE-Gerard. The members, attorneys and staff of Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner LLP sadly record the untimely loss of our esteemed former partner, Gerard Boyce. Jerry's drive, can do attitude, unflagging good nature and talent as a practitioner contributed immeasurably to the gro
 BROWN-John Terry, Jr. Of New York City died May 30th. at home of cancer. He was the son of Mr. & Mrs. John Terry Brown of Racine, Wisconsin. He was a graduate of The Choate School and Phoenix Jr. College and received a BA from NYU. He attended the Parsons School of Design and established an
 CALICK-Paul on June 4, 2001. Age 96, of Lake Worth FL, formerly of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved husband for 62 years of Gladys. Adored father of Dedee and Stephen Lovell, Terry and Harold Schottenfeld. Devoted brother of Leon and Miriam, and Bernard Calick. Loving grandfather of David and Lisa
 CLYMAS-Joseph. On June 4, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Laurette. Dear father of Sari, devoted uncle of George and Andrew. He will be missed by his friends, neighbors and former colleagues. Visitation and memorial service on Friday, June 8, 5-7pm at John Krtil Funeral Home, Inc, 1297 1s
 EISENBERG - Marvin Joseph. Died in New York City on June 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Audrey Goodman. Loving father of Eric and Jane, Nina, Sally and Charley. Proud grandfather of Evan and Grace. Cherished brother of the late Raymond Woodrow, brotherin-law to Estelle, and uncle to many niece
 HARE-Robert (Peter). Died on June 1, 2001 at home in Sussex, England. Beloved husband of Greta, father of Alix Brooke, Margaret Davidson, Tracy, Robert and Richard Hare. Grandfather of Alix and Willing Davidson, John and Alice Brooke. Contributions in his name may be made to: Brantwood Camp
 HOAGLAND-Alexander C. June 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Teresa, loving father of Valente, Antonio (Lupe) and Valeria (Luis). Cherished grandfather of Anna, Teresa, Alejandro, Felipe, Maria and Mariana. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campb
 KAY-Dr. Paul. The Department of Psychiatry, North Shore University Hospital-NYU School of Medicine, mourns the passing of our esteemed longtime colleague and friend, valued teacher, supervisor and mentor, caring psychiatrist and psychoanalyst. His teaching of the History of Psychiatry and c
 McCABE-Robert D. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Robert D. McCabe a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 McMURRAY-Joseph P. The Queens College Community is saddened by the passing of Joseph P. McMurray, President of Queens College/CUNY from 1965-1971. After a long career in public service, he came to Queens College during a time of multiple challenges and transformations, when enrollment at th
 ROSENKRANZ-Louis. 96. A generous and caring person who loved life with intensity, brought a special love and happiness to his family and friends. We will miss him. The extended Rosenkranz Family       
 SANDLER-Ernie. Cherished husband of Gloria for 50 years. Loving father of Jeffrey, Stefanie and Matthew. Adored grandfather of Adam, Jonathan, Jennifer, Joshua and Cody. Dear brother of Judy and Marvin. Caring father-in-law of Barbara and Michael. President of Interstate Drug Exchange. Gene
 SHAPIRO-Meyer age 88 of Woodcliff Lake formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ. Husband of Dorothy, father of Alan (Susan), Robert (Helaine), Steven (Gail). Brother of Ted, Lewis, and Lillian Laskin. Beloved grandfather and great grandfather of Ronald, Jane, Lori, Adam, Amy, Matthew, Daniel, Kaitlyn and 
 STANGER-Wesley A. Jr., died of natural causes on May 23 at 92. Mr. Stanger graduated from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School in 1929. He joined Dillon, Read & Co. and in 1933 was a founder of Riter & Co., an NYSE member. He served in the U.S. Navy Reserve as a lieutenant during
 TODD-W. Duane, MD, June first, beloved husband of Dorothy Jane Keith. Father of George Damon Todd and Alison Keith Todd Cokorinos. Grandfather of Emily and Katherine Cokorinos. Brother of Donald Todd. Donations in his memory may be made to the Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, CT, or Sloane Hosp
 Rockets Redglare, a comedian, actor and longtime fixture on the Lower East Side of Manhattan who played characters not unlike himself in many movies, died on May 28 in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was complications of kidney failure, liver failure, cirrhosis and hepatitis C, said
 Francis Bebey, a composer, writer and performer who was an authority on African traditional music, died on May 28 in Paris. He was 72. Mr. Bebey was the author of ''African Music: A People's Art'' (1975), a survey of Africa's varied musical heritage as well as a discography and a co
 Howard M. Packard, former president of S. C. Johnson & Son Inc. of Racine, Wis., the producer of Johnson's Wax and other home products, died on Sunday at a retirement community in Sister Bay, Wis. He was 90. He became the company's treasurer in 1946 and was its president from 1958 t
 Joseph P. McMurray, an expert on national and New York housing policy who was chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and president of three colleges, died on May 21 at Long Beach Medical Center on Long Island. He was 89. From 1959 to 1961 he was president of Queensborough Comm
 BOYCE-Gerard R. 46, died on June 4, 2001 at his home in Franklin Lakes, NJ. He is survived by his beloved wife, Anna, and three children, Lauren (10), Aidan (2), and Garrett (8 months), and two sisters, Peggy Louie Chaplin and Veronica Gunnerson. Admitted to the bar in 1983, Jerry was a par
 CALICK-Paul. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Paul Calick, a cherished friend who expressed his commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes through his generosity. His beloved daughter, Diane Lovell, and her hus
 DEKELBOUM - Marvin. The members and staff of the Falls Country Club in Lake Worth, FL, wish to express their sincere condolences on the passing of Marvin, to his wife Elsie and their family. Board of Governors Kenneth Mahler, President       
 EISENBERG - Marvin Joseph. Died in New York City on June 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Audrey Goodman. Loving father of Eric and Jane, Nina, Sally and Charley. Proud grandfather of Evan and Grace. Cherished brother of the late Raymond Woodrow, brotherin-law to Estelle, and uncle to many niece
 GRANT-R.H. (Dick), Jr., age 88, of Palm Beach FL, formerly of Dayton OH, died Tuesday, June 5, 2001, in Palm Beach. Mr. Grant was president of Reynolds and Reynolds from 1941 until 1957 when he became chairman & CEO, and currently was director emeritus. He served with other business interes
 HOAGLAND-Alexander C. June 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Teresa, loving father of Valente, Antonio (Lupe) and Valeria (Luis). Cherished grandfather of Anna, Teresa, Alejandro, Felipe, Maria and Mariana. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campb
 McGOVERN-John H., M.D. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Weill Cornell Medical College and NewYork - Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. John H. McGovern, who was a valued member of our Department of Urology for nearly half a century. Highly regarded by hi
 SANDLER-Ernest. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. mourns the passing of our beloved member, Ernest Sandler. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Gloria and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President SANDLER-Ernie. Cherished husband of Gloria for 50 years. 
 SCHWARTZSTEIN-Larry. Congregation Ezrath Israel, The Actors' Temple, mourns the passing of our president Robert Goldman's beloved son-in-law, Larry. He was former financial secretary for many years, dear friend and longtime member. We express our sympathy to his beloved wife, Joy; son, Adam
 SEIDER-Edward. Congregation Ezrath Israel, The Actors' Temple, mourns the passing of our esteemed Trustee, former recording secretary of many years, dear friend and long time member of over 55 years. We express our sympathy to his devoted Mattie, and to his family. He will be deeply missed.
 TODD-Duane, M.D., June first, beloved husband of Dorothy Jane Keith. Father of George Damon Todd and Alison Keith Todd Cokorinos. Grandfather of Emily and Katherine Cokorinos. Brother of Donald Todd. Donations in his memory may be made to the Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, CT, or Sloane Hospi
 URY-Dennis W., III, died Saturday, June 2, 2001 at his mother's home in Lee, NH. Born October 2, 1959 in NYC he was the son of Ann (Donovan) Ury of Lee and Dennis W. Ury, Jr., of Jersey City, NJ. He attended the RISD and the Chicago Art Institute. Those who wish may make contributions in hi
 BOYCE-Gerard (Jerry) R. A beloved partner in the New York office of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison LLP, died Monday at the age of 46 after a battle with cancer. Jerry specialized in tax matters involving all aspects of technology and emerging growth companies. He advised clients on tax aspects
 CHAPNICK-Irving. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of Irving Chapnick, past President of Temple Sinai. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Funeral at Temple Sinai, Friday, June 8, 1 PM Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Toni Wiener, 
 EISENBERG - Marvin Joseph. Died in New York City on June 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Audrey Goodman. Loving father of Eric and Jane, Nina, Sally and Charley. Proud grandfather of Evan and Grace. Cherished brother of the late Raymond Woodrow, brotherin-law to Estelle, and uncle to many niece
 HOAGLAND-Alexander C. June 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Teresa, loving father of Valente, Antonio (Lupe) and Valeria (Luis). Cherished grandfather of Anna, Teresa, Alejandro, Felipe, Maria and Mariana. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campb
 KALDAHL-Wesley G. ''Wes.'' Age 76, passed away in Dallas, TX, on June 6, 2001. He was formerly of Rye, NY. Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 10 AM, Saturday, June 9, 2001, at All Saints Catholic Church in Dallas. Entombment will follow in Calvary Hill Cemetery in Dallas. For mo
 LIEGEY-Jean Richard. 72, died June 3, 2001. Born in Far Rockaway, NY, formerly of Stamford, CT, and a resident of Plantation, FL. He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Angela, and their four children, four grandchildren, and many brothers and sisters. A Funeral Mass was held on June 6, 20
 McGOVERN-John H., M.D. The Department of Urology at Weill Medical College of Cornell University profoundly mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, John H. McGovern, M.D. Dr. McGovern was internationally recognized for his contributions to urology, especially in the field of pediatric 
 PARKER-Harold, CPA. Of Hartsdale, NY, on June 5, 2001. Cherished husband of Miriam for 57 years. Loving father of Stuart, Brian and Robert. Dear brother of Violet and the late Rhea. Cherished grandfather of Dara, Tracy, Jessie, Amanda and Michael. Beloved father-in-law, brother-in-law, uncl
 REICHENBACH - Jack. Died peacefully with his family at his side on June 7. Loving husband of Cecile Metz and devoted father of Judy Berg, Alan and Herbert. Adoring grandfather of Natalie, Alison, Samantha and Jenna. His pride in his family was his greatest source of strength. As a veteran o
 SIEGMAN-Howard, 1922-2000 Howard Siegman taught dramatic literature at Hofstra University for some thirty-five years. Most references to him have to be theatrical, from Oedipus to Blanche DuBois and all the great plays in between. They made him come alive and, in turn, he did the same for t
 Paul E. Dietrich, an architect and founding member of the firm Cambridge Seven Associates in Cambridge, Mass., died on Saturday at a  Boston hospital. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Andrea Dietrich. Mr. Dietrich was born in Hammond, Ind., and att
 Tsen-cha Tsao, an engineer and educator who helped recreate one of China's leading institutions of higher learning on Taiwan, died on May 23 at home on the Upper East Side. He was 99. Mr. Tsao, known as T.C., retired in 1971 as a senior research engineer involved in defense-related 
 Brig. Gen. Denis Whitaker, one of Canada's most highly decorated army officers of World War II and a military historian and sportsman, died May 30 in Oakville, Ontario. He was 86. Serving with the Royal Hamilton Light Infantry -- from the Dieppe raid through the Normandy campaign an
 Henry Ludwig Michel, a globe-trotting civil engineer with a 50-year career that made him a leader in the construction industry, died on May 23 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 76. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Michel was chairma
 HERMAN-Gene. A man with a very large appetite for life and an even larger heart. The world is less without him. Lenore Salazar       
 KAY-Dr. Paul. The Long Island Psychoanalytic Society mourns the death of Dr. Paul Kay, a distinguished psychoanalyst and founding member. A popular supervisor and a beloved mentor, he will be remembered for his knowledge, warmth and originality. The Society members extend sincere condolence
 SCHIFF-Stanley, Ph.D. The Board of Directors and Executive Staff of New York Psychotherapy and Counseling Center mourn the passing of Stanley Schiff, a long time member of our Board of Directors. He was a warm, generous and loyal friend and colleague. His dedication and guidance in our trea
 Víctor Paz Estenssoro, who was president of Bolivia four times in a career that he began as a moderate leftist and ended as a conservative, and who went into exile three times, died on Thursday. He was 93. News service reports said Mr. Paz Estenssoro died where he was born, in Tari
 Walter E. Rogers, a Texas Democrat who served eight terms in the House of Representatives, died on May 31 at a hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Rogers, who investigated the television quiz show scandals of the 1950's and the Northeast blackout of 1964, was also a witness to s
 Edward Wright, whose youthful curiosity about three oak planks poking out of the English beach where he and his brother searched for dinosaur bones led to the discovery of the oldest seaworthy boats found in northern Europe, died on May 18 in a hospital in Gloucester. He was 82. Mr.
 BENARD-James. 61, died peacefully in his sleep in his wife's arms on June 6, 2001, after a difficult struggle with cancer. He was the cherished husband of Mary Lou Kolipinski; beloved father of Marie Perry and her husband Andrew, James John Benard and his wife Hilary Hamann; and the adoring
 BOYCE-Gerard R. 46, died on June 4, 2001 at his home in Franklin Lakes, NJ. He is survived by his beloved wife, Anna, and three children, Lauren (10), Aidan (2), and Garrett (8 months), and two sisters, Peggy Louie Chaplin and Veronica Gunnerson. Admitted to the bar in 1983, Jerry was a par
 HART-David Montgomery on May 22, 2001, in Garrucha, Spain. Age 74. An anthropologist, Mr. Hart was the author of several books on the Berber-speaking peoples of Morocco. Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Hart lived in Morocco for almost 20 years while performing research and then resided in Spain. 
 HOAGLAND-Alexander C., Jr., passed away on Monday, June 4, 2001. Born in Perth Amboy, New Jersey in 1927, Mr. Hoagland was a distinguished member of the Bars of New York and Mexico and practiced law in both jurisdictions. He graduated from Harvard University in 1950 and Harvard Law School i
 KELLER-Budd. He will be greatly missed by Bee, his wife of 56 years, his sons Richard and Jeffery, his brother, Gerald, and Barbara. Graveside service at King Solomon Cemetery, Clifton, N.J. Monday, June 11, 11AM.       
 LEWIN-Charles L., Jr. (Chuck) June 7, 2001 at age 84. Beloved exhusband of Bobby and Samantha. Devoted father of Josh, Lisa, Jed and Jared. Adored grandfather of Rachel, Rebecca and Jeremy. Cherished brother of Edwin and dear friend of Barbara. His intelligence, guidance and love will be mi
 MARX-Arthur Jr., age 79, of Naples, FL, a Brown University graduate, served in the U.S. Marine Corp during World War II, veteran of Iwo Jima and Saipan, he was an avid fisherman and a Specialist on the American Stock Exchange. He is survived by his wife Emilie (Hyman) Marx, a son and daught
 MENENDEZ-Serafin S. Died June 1, 2001, in Miami, FL, after a long struggle with cancer. A former resident of Wesport, CT, he will be remembered fondly by his family and many friends. He is survived by his daughters Lydia L. and Melanie Menendez of Fairfield, CT, his brother, Hugo Menendez, 
 SCARAMUZZO - Angelo. The Board of Governors, the members and the staff of Glenn Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved longterm Caddy Master and Ranger (Pops) and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his family. There were none of us he did not touch and we wil
 SCHIFF-Stanley, Beloved Doctor. Funeral Sunday, 12 noon at Parkside Chapel. 9860 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills. SCHIFF-Stanley, Ph.D. The Board of Directors and Executive Staff of New York Psychotherapy and Counseling Center mourn the passing of Stanley Schiff, a long time member of our
 SHALOM - Joe. Philanthropist, Died at 83. The Board of Directors of Ozar Hatorah expresses their heartfelt sympathy and condolences on the passing of international Jewish Philanthropist, Joe Shalom. Mr. Shalom died of a heart attack on Thursday, June 7th at his home in Deal, New Jersey. Mr.
 John McKay, who coached the University of Southern California football team to four unofficial national championships, then coached for nine seasons with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, died yesterday at a hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 77. The cause was kidney failure arising from diabet
 ARDIZZONE - Jimmy (Ignasio). Beloved husband of Elvira, grandfather to Marc and Darrin, cherished by Pamela Ardizzone, his sister Elizabeth Cerrito, Gail Cohen and Sy and Judi Dill. Hero of the greatest generation that liberated Europe. Always in our hearts. For information call: Prospero B
 BIDERMAN-David. Yeshiva Beth Abraham-Slonim of Jerusalem mourns the untimely passing of David Biderman. Condolences to his wife and children. Our hearts go out to his parents Ben and Nechama, loyal supporters of our Yeshiva, whose acts of kindness for others are unsurpassed. Yeshiva Beth Ab
 SHALOM-Joseph I. Son of Isaac and Alice Shalom, a family outstanding in worldwide philanthropy in Jewish education and aid to Israel. Co-founders of Sephardic Heritage Foundation which has distributed over 240,000 Hebrew and English prayer books all over the world. Our deepest condolences t
 Stephan Weiss, a sculptor and painter who with his wife, Donna Karan, founded one of America's leading fashion houses, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the Donna Karan company said. A tall, slim man w
 Thomas F. Irvine Jr., the founding dean of the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on June 2 at his home in St. James, N.Y. He was 78. The cause of death was listed as cardiopulmonary arrest, his wife said. Aft
 Harry Zohn, an educator, writer and translator of important works of German literature, died on May 3 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 77 and most recently lived in Newton, Mass. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Dr. Zohn taught at Brandeis University
 J. C. Furnas, a writer and social historian, died on June 3 at his home in Stanton, N.J. He was 95. Mr. Furnas was a longtime contributor to The American Scholar and wrote prolifically for newspapers, including The New York Times, and magazines like The Saturday Evening Post, Collie
 ALDEWERELD-Simon, 1909-2001, died peacefully at his home June 9, 2001. Survived by his wife Kitty and his niece Jacky. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday, June 12th, 11 AM. Interment private.       
 GIBSON-Harold Dean. Age 74, on June 10, 2001. Beloved husband of Patricia. Loving father of Patrick & Leslie and their spouses Bonnie and Edward Maluf. Adoring grandfather of Celia, Nicholas, Sofia and Eric. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Thursday 2-5 and
 GOLDBERG-Seymour, 87. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. On June 10, 2001. He is a graduate of Townes & Harris, City College of N.Y. and St. John's Law School. He was Master of the John Hancock Lodge #       
 GOLDSTEIN-Julius. Died June 7, 2001, in Petworth, England, at 83. Artist, teacher, quintessential New Yorker, irreverent wit, baseball enthusiast, ardent movie goer, cherished friend and colleague. He will be much missed. Hunter College Arts Department       
 HARRIS-Jerry. A born and raised New Yorker, adulthood a Floridian, passed away June 9, 2001. He was my cousin and best friend. Rest in peace. Jules       
 KASSEL-Charles Jacob, seventysix, of Cresskill, NJ. Beloved husban of Miriam, his wife of fortyseven years. Devoted father of Kenneth and Kerul, model fatherin-law of David Leeman: dear brother of Helen Goldstein. Born November 20th, 1924 in Brooklyn, NY, Chuck served in the Navy in World W
 McCABE-John S., M.D., 66. Retired Chief of Thoracic Surgery and past Chairman of the Division of Surgery of Washington Hospital, Washington, PA. Died on June 1st, 2001 in Vero Beach, FL. Born in NYC, Dr. McCabe built a successful thoracic and cardiovascular practice in southwestern Pennsylv
 PINES-Kermit L. 84, On June 10 after a long illness. Devoted husband for 61 years to Toussia, beloved father to Jeffrey, Jonathan, Deborah. Grandfather to Kate, Emily, Giulia, Abigail. Great grandfather to Zachary and Tyler. Please make any contributions to Medical Student Financial Aid at 
 POMMERS-Leon. His friends, colleagues, and students from The Aaron Copland School of Music, Queens College, mourn the death of Leon Pommers, consummate musician, devoted teacher, warmhearted friend, and perfect gentleman.       
 ROTHENBERG-Max. Died peacefully at his home in Miami Beach, Fl. Devoted husband of the late Judith; beloved brother of the late Anne and Charles Rothenberg; father of Peter; proud grandfather of Daniel and Jason; loving uncle of Arthur and Nancy and great uncle of Richard, Robert and David.
 SHALOM-Joseph. From the children, Isaac, Robert, Leslie, and Valerie, from his grandchildren, Natasha and Yvonne, his son-inlaw, Nissim Berrebi, his brothers, Stephen and Henry, his sisters, Norma and Muriel, who mourn the loss of their dear father, grandfather, in-law, and brother, Joseph 
 TARTAGLIA-Tullio F., MD, 79, a graduate of The Chicago Medical School, and a decorated Korean War veteran, died June 10. Dr. Tartaglia was a licensed physician for 50 years and a past-President of the NY Society of Internal Medicine, Bronx Chapter, and the Bronx County Medical Society. A de
 WEISS-Stephan. Born September 16, 1938. Died on June 10th, 2001. Beloved husband of Donna Karan, father of Corey Weiss, Lisa WeissKeyes and Gabrielle Karan and grandfather of Mackenzie, Miles, Mercer, Etan and Maya Rose. An exceptional creator and co-founder of Donna Karan International, hi
 BOND-Simon (Sasha). The family of Simon Bond wishes to thank all of the people who attended his funeral and, in particular, to express our appreciation to Mr. and Mrs. Irving Schneider, who consistently and faithfully were in touch with Simon Bond and worried about him, to Dr. Norman Lamm, 
 Edwin Shapiro, a former president of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, an American Jewish refugee agency, and a leader in other Jewish organizations, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Shapiro died of cancer, his family said. As president of the society 
 ABBEY-Albert, MD. Died peacefully on June 11, 2001. Physician extraordinaire, person extraordinaire. His wisdom and compassion will be missed but never forgotten. Beloved husband and soulmate of Joan, proud father of Jonathan, Seth and Joshua, and graduate of Harvard '60. He won because in 
 GIBSON-Harold Dean. Age 74, on June 10, 2001. Beloved husband of Patricia. Loving father of Patrick & Leslie and their spouses Bonnie and Edward Maluf. Adoring grandfather of Celia, Nicholas, Sofia and Eric. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Thursday 2-5 and
 HERTS-Nathaniel N. Attorney, died peacefully on June 11, at the Jewish Home for the Aged in New York City just before celebrating his 93rd birthday. A memorial gathering will be held Saturday, June 16, 11 AM at Crestwood Memorial Chapel, 33 Spring St., NYC.       
 JAMESON-Rev. Fred Beaver Chief. Born January 15, 1955, passed away at Queen Anne Post Office on June 8, 2001. Funeral ceremony will be offered at Bonney-Watson, 1732 Broadway on Capital Hill, Wednesday, June 13, 2001 at 10:00 AM. He is survived by his mother, wife, son, brothers, sisters, a
 KASSEL-Charles Jacob. Seventysix, of Cresskill, NJ. Beloved husban of Miriam, his wife of fortyseven years. Devoted father of Kenneth and Kerul, model fatherin-law of David Leeman: dear brother of Helen Goldstein. Born November 20th, 1924 in Brooklyn, NY, Chuck served in the Navy in World W
 LIPSKY-Mark. The Merrick Jewish Centre, Congregation Ohr Torah, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Dr. Mark Lipsky, and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dr. Gail Sherry, their son, Scott, and the entire family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our peop
 PETERMAN-Solomon. Of Toms River, N.J. (formerly of NY, NY), father of Roberta Peters Fields, Metropolitan Opera soprano, on Monday, June 11. Age 93. A dear sweet person who loved his family dearly and had a great sense of humor. He will be missed tremendously but will forever be in the hear
 PINES-Kermit, M.D. The faculty and staff of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague Dr. Kermit Pines, who passed away Sunday, June 10, 2001. A highly regarded educator, researcher, and clinician, Dr. Pin
 RAFSKY-William L. Greatly admired, respected and loving uncle, a true role model and a statesman and civic leader of immense accomplishments. To our dear aunt Selma, to whom he was an adoring husband of sixty years, to his devoted son Larry and special granddaughter Sara, we extend our hear
 SASSI-Michael F. Died of heart disease in Boston, MA on June 10, 2001 at age 67. Beloved husband of 39 years to Christina, loving father to daughters Christina and Gabriella, doting grandfather to Matthew, Katarina and Natasha, devoted son of the late Caroline and Michael, and beloved broth
 SHALOM-Joseph. The Management and Employees of I. Shalom & Company, Inc., and Jordan Accessories mourn the passing of our President and mentor, Joseph Shalom, whose fairness and generosity touched all who were in contact with him. To Joseph, personal relationships and compassion superseeded
 SHAPIRO-Edwin. Died peacefully in his sleep after a long struggle with cancer. Beloved husband of Dena, loving father and father-inlaw of Steven/Sharon & Len/Bilha and the late Richard. Adored grandfather of Ronen, Oren, Alon, Reuven and Samuel. Respected stepfather of Alan and Renee Zellne
 SHULMAN-Kim Frederic, 45. Passed away on June 1, 2001 of a cerebral hemorrhage. He leaves a son, Daniel, his parents, Claire and Mel Shulman, a brother, Dr. Larry Shulman, and a sister, Dr. Ellen Baker. Services were held on June 5 in California. He will be in our hearts forever. Contributi
 STERNER-Jerry. Died on June 11. Beloved husband, father, brother and most generous loved friend to so many whose lives he touched. He will be sorely missed. Services Wednesday, 11:45 AM, Riverside, Amsterdam Ave. and 76th Street. STERNER-Jerry. An enormously caring, devoted friend a
 TARTAGLIA-Tullio F., MD, 79, a graduate of The Chicago Medical School and a decorated Korean War veteran, died on June 10. Dr. Taraglia was a licensed physician for 50 years and a past president of both the New York Society of Internal Medicine, Bronx Chapter, and the Bronx County Medical S
 WADE-Roger W., 82. Died peacefully at home in Kissimmee, FL. on June 7th. Roger was a pioneer in the audio-visual production field with his company, Roger Wade Productions. Beloved husband of Florence. Loving father of Theodosia Sedgwick, Carolyn, Roger, Jr. and Alexander. Dear brother to D
 WEISS-Stephan. Born September 16, 1938. Died on June 10th, 2001. Beloved husband of Donna Karan, father of Corey Weiss, Lisa WeissKeyes and Gabrielle Karan and grandfather of Mackenzie, Miles, Mercer, Etan and Maya Rose. An exceptional creator and co-founder of Donna Karan International, hi
 MORROW-Peter. The family would like to thank all his friends and acquaintances for the Mass Cards. Your outpouring of condolences was a great comfort. Madeline Poli       
 Col. Todd Sweeney, who commanded a platoon of glider-borne British infantrymen in a storied raid that captured two vital bridges in the first moments of D-Day, died June 4, The Times of London reported. He was 82. Just past midnight on June 6, 1944, six gliders carrying 181 troops o
 ABRAMS-George. 1919-2001. Internationally recognized lettering artist, type designer and book collector, died Thursday, June 7, in Great Neck, New York. As a founder of George Abrams Alphabets, Inc, he designed the logo mastheads for several popular magazines, including Saturday Evening Pos
 GIBSON-Harold Dean. Age 74, on June 10, 2001. Beloved husband of Patricia. Loving father of Patrick & Leslie and their spouses Bonnie and Edward Maluf. Adoring grandfather of Celia, Nicholas, Sofia and Eric. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Thursday 2-5 and
 GOLD-Rabbi Aaron S. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. He served several pulpits in Wisconsin, Nevada and California. From 1974 until he became rabbi emeritus in 1992, he served Tifereth Israel Synagogue in San Diego. We express our deepest condolences to 
 GOLDBERG-Seymour. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Bella and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Emeritus Bernard Dienstag, Cantor Katherine Teich, Pr
 JERRY-Harold A. Jr. We mourn the death of Harold A. Jerry, Jr., a passionate advocate for the East's last great wilderness, the Adirondack Park. A former state senator, he served three decades on the Public Service Commission, and on numerous conservation organizations. Governor Nelson Rock
 KLETTE-Rudolph Thomas, Born June 20, 1913 in NYC. Retired from the NYC Fire Department. In 1947, he was awarded NYC Fire Department Award for Valor and NY Maritime Silver Medal for Bravery. He was predeceased by wife Rita (nee Concannon). Surviving are children, Jack and Mary; sister, Ameli
 LE SUEUR-Joe. On May 14, 2001. Man of letters. Dear friend of the late Patsy Southgate and Frank O'Hara. Loved by many whose lives he touched. ''I am lonely for myself/I can't find a real poem/if it won't happen to me/what shall I do'' Frank O'Hara,''At Joan's'' 1959       
 OHRWASHEL-Morris. The Board of Directors of 360 East 72nd Street Owners, Inc. extend their heartfelt condolences to esteemed Board member and Officer, Norman Ohrwashel on the death of his beloved father. Harvey Rothenberg, President       
 ROBIN-Richard. Son of the late Henri Rabinowicz and Sophie Romanus Rabinowicz, died peacefully on June 12, 2001 at 88 years of age. His stories of pre-WWII Europe, then fighting the Germans as a French Cavalry Officer or working, after the fall of France, on behalf of displaced persons and 
 SELLA-Emmanuel, 76. A vibrant and generous man died peacefully at home on June 12, 2001, surrounded by his wife and children. Until almost his last days he had a twinkle in his eye and possessed a remarkable energy for life. He was born in Vilna, Lithuania to Leah Kellman Solchansky and Eph
 SHALOM-Joseph. The Management and Employees of I. Shalom & Company, Inc., and Jordan Accessories mourn the passing of our President and mentor, Joseph Shalom, whose fairness and generosity touched all who were in contact with him. To Joseph, personal relationships and compassion superseeded
 SHAPIRO-Edwin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Edwin Shapiro, a cherished friend and an extraordinary leader in the Jewish community. He touched the lives of a record number of Jewish immigrants through his work
 TSIEN-Kia Kwei. Beloved father of Dawn Tsien, devoted husband of the late Lois Ing Tsien, and loving brother of Lily Sze, Daisy Shih and Maud Chow, passed away peacefully at the Mt. Sinai Medical Center on June 8, 2001 from complications arising from a fall. Born in Beijing, China on July 2
 WEISS-Stephan. Born September 16, 1938. Died on June 10th, 2001. Beloved husband of Donna Karan, father of Corey Weiss, Lisa WeissKeyes and Gabrielle Karan and grandfather of Mackenzie, Miles, Mercer, Etan and Maya Rose. An exceptional creator and co-founder of Donna Karan International, hi
 Viktor Hamburger, an experimental embryologist who mapped much of the delicate pas de deux executed by the developing nervous system and the tissue it controls, died on Tuesday in St. Louis. He was 100 years old and lived in nearby University City. Dr. Hamburger, who spent much of h
 Jerry Sterner, a businessman turned playwright who wrote the Off Broadway hit ''Other People's Money,'' died on Monday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Jean. After attending City College of New York, Mr. Sterner sold tokens for
 BAILEY-Edward J. On June 13, 2001 at age 68. Loving father of Paul and Mark. Devoted brother of Lois Lehman. Graveside service Friday, June 15, 2:30 PM at B'nai Jacob Memorial Park, New Haven, CT. Memorial service in New York City to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to 
 BROFFMAN-Mort. Academic and Business Leader. Morton H. Broffman, respected academic and business executive, died on June 10, 2001 in Tuscany, Italy at the age of 80. Mr. Broffman had a distinguished career in academia, and later went on to a very successful career in business. He developed 
 BRUEN-Francis William. On June 14, 2001. Retired member of the N.Y.C.P.D. Born in Manhattan, NYC, January 13, 1918, and a resident of Vinegar Hill, Manhattan, for forty-two years, prior to moving to Stuyvesant Town, NYC. Father of none, and godfather of many. Predeceased by his mother, Eliz
 DORMAN-Bertrand Seymour, 86 years young. Died peacefully on Tuesday, June 12th, 2001 at Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, NJ. Mr. Dorman, an outstanding New York insurance broker for over 50 years, lived in Allenhurst, NJ. Devoted husband of Judith; loving father to Jill Garfunkel, C. D
 KANDERS-Ralph Franklin. Died peacefully at home on June 14, 2001 surrounded by his beloved wife of 44 years, Jeanne, and his children. Son of Beatrice Kanders and devoted and cherished father of Warren, Beatrice Kanders Hoffman, Jonathan, Alan, Emily and grandfather to Alexander, Zachary, S
 KRAFT-Jack. Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, N.Y., mourns the loss of a longtime and devoted member. We will all miss seeing him on Shabbat mornings. To Sara, Dr. Howard, Rhonda and their families, our deepest sympathy and condolence. May his memory be a blessing. Laurence A. Feldman, Pr
 MURPHY-Martin C. Age 31. Of NYC. Died unexpectedly on Monday, June 11, 2001. He was employed by Watson-Guptill Co., NYC       
 SCHWARTZ-Richard M. Devoted and loving husband, son, father, brother, uncle and friend; died on June 13, 2001. He is survived by his wife Juliann, his father Ralph, his children Allison, Christopher, Jonathan and Emily; his brothers Stephen and Leo and sister Elsa. Funeral services will be 
 SELLA-Emmanuel, 76. A vibrant and generous man died peacefully at home on June 12, 2001, surrounded by his wife and children. Until almost his last days he had a twinkle in his eye and possessed a remarkable energy for life. He was born in Vilna, Lithuania to Leah Kellman Solchansky and Eph
 SHAPIRO-Edwin. The American Camping Association-New York Section (ACA-NY) is deeply saddened by the loss of Edwin Shapiro, former owner of Camp Sequoia and a leader in the camping profession for many decades. We appreciate his enormous contribution to the camp experience and we extend our d
 WEISS-Stephan. Born September 16, 1938. Died on June 10th, 2001. Beloved husband of Donna Karan, father of Corey Weiss, Lisa WeissKeyes and Gabrielle Karan and grandfather of Mackenzie, Miles, Mercer, Etan and Maya Rose. An exceptional creator and co-founder of Donna Karan International, hi
 Paul R. Carey, a top aide to President Bill Clinton and later a Securities and Exchange commissioner who campaigned for the rights of individual investors, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 38 and lived in Washington. The cause was endocri
 Amos Perlmutter, a Washington-based political scientist, author and commentator on Middle Eastern affairs, died Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his family said. He was the author of 15 books and innumerable articles and essays about the 
 David Rolland Spedding, who rose to head the Secret Intelligence Service, or M.I.6 -- a position immortalized by the author Ian Fleming as the espionage supremo known only as M -- died on Wednesday. He was 58. He died of lung cancer, the agency announced. Sir David's career 
 Dennis Puleston, a naturalist, boat designer and yachtsman who, as founding chairman of the Environmental Defense Fund, played a leading role in getting the insecticide DDT banned in the United States and many other countries, died June 8 at his home in Brookhaven, N.Y. He was 95. M
 Makanda K. McIntyre, a jazz saxophonist, flutist and player of reed instruments who began recording in the early 1960's before beginning a 40-year career as a beloved jazz educator, died on Wednesday at his Harlem apartment. He was 69. He collapsed after exercising, said his wife, J
 CAREY-Paul Robert, Commissioner-United States Securities and Exchange Commission passed away June 14, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Paul Robert Carey was born October 18, 1962, the beloved seventh son of Former Governor Hugh L. Carey and the late Helen Owen Carey. His
 COOK-Jerome. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Jerome Cook. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Sheila and family. Peter J. Baum, President Gail H. Tarlowe, Secretary       
 KANDERS-Ralph Franklin. Died peacefully at home on June 14, 2001 surrounded by his beloved wife of 44 years, Jeanne, and his children. Son of Beatrice Kanders and devoted and cherished father of Warren, Beatrice Kanders Hoffman, Jonathan, Alan, Emily and grandfather to Alexander, Zachary, S
 KLONER-Craig Alan. Died June 15, 2001 at Mt. Sinai. Survived by his wife Christine, parents Ida and Irving Kloner. Memorial service Tuesday, June 19, 2PM, Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam and 76th St.       
 McINTYRE-Makanda Ken. Born September 7, 1931, made his transition June 13, 2001. Peerless composer, arranger and multi-instrumentalist of music in the African American tradition, he inspired multitudes. Son of Jamaican parents, Arthur A. McIntyre and Blanche C. Stewart, he grew up in the So
 ROBIN-Richard. Loving husband of Therese, devoted father to Jacky and grandfather to Scott and Mark Sean. Friend and fatherin-law to Jeffrey Clyman. His rich and fulfilling life is an inspiration to all who knew him. We shall miss the warmth of his fellowship. Melanie and Philippe Radley, K
 WOODS-Herbert. We mourn the passing of Herbert Woods who possessed a remarkable passion for life. He was an inspiration for all of us. We express our deepest condolences to wife, Sylvia, and children Van, Kenneth, Bedelia and Cresette. He will be greatly missed. Irving and the Schatz Family
 Dr. Bernard Louis Strehler, a biochemist and gerontologist who investigated and described the physical causes of aging, died on May 13 at a nursing home in Agoura, Calif. He was 76. The cause was a stroke, said the University of Southern California, where Dr. Strehler taught from 19
 AMSTERDAM-Albert J., 79. Of Key West, and Alexandria Bay, NY; formerly Syracuse, NY, born Philadelphia, PA. Son of Florence and Jules. Attended Columbia High School, Maplewood, NJ. and the U of Virginia. U.S. Army Air Corp; businessman Amsterdam Brothers; Amsterdam Orchards; Titan Tug and T
 BALL-Sidney. Of Scarsdale, NY on June 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen (Rothenberg) Ball. Loving father of Barbara Buff, David Ball, Marc Goldberg, Paul Goldberg, Elyse Speilberg and Lynne Goldberg. Also survived by his seven cherished grandchildren and one great grandchild. Funeral today
 BLATT-Leo. Died peacefully June 15, 2001, in his 90th year. He was predeceased by his brothers Charlie and Milton. He is survived by his sister Molly Cohen, brotherin-law Bob Cohen, sisters-in-law Marie and Jennie, many nieces and nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews and great-grandnieces 
 CAREY-Paul Robert, Commissioner-United States Securities and Exchange Commission passed away June 14, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Paul Robert Carey was born October 18, 1962, the beloved seventh son of Former Governor Hugh L. Carey and the late Helen Owen Carey. His
 COHEN-Robert Michael. On June 14, 2001. Beloved father of Corine and Beth. Older brother of James. Loving grandfather of Jackson. He will be greatly missed. Service Monday, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 FISHBEIN-I. Leo, M.D. Died June 10, 2001. Psychiatrist in Miami Beach, Florida. Survived by his wife Elizabeth, daughters Karene Gruen and Anne Block. Five grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Services private.       
 GALAZOUDIS - Notis. Beloved husband of Demetra (nee Chios), died on Friday, June 15, 2001, at his home in Singer Island, FL. A funeral service will be held in West Palm Beach, FL, with the interment to take place in Bala Cynwyd, PA. We invite you to visit, sign the Remembrance Registry Gues
 KANDERS-Ralph Franklin. Died peacefully at home on June 14, 2001 surrounded by his beloved wife of 44 years, Jeanne, and his children. Son of Beatrice Kanders and devoted and cherished father of Warren, Beatrice Kanders Hoffman, Jonathan, Alan, Emily and grandfather to Alexander, Zachary, S
 LE SUEUR-Joe. On May 14, 2001. Man of letters. Dear friend of the late Patsy Southgate and Frank O'Hara. Loved by many whose lives he touched. ''I am lonely for myself/I can't find a real poem/if it won't happen to me/what shall I do'' Frank O'Hara, from, ''At Joan's'' 1959       
 MARX-Arthur Jr. Age 79, of Naples, FL, a Brown University graduate, served in the U.S. Marine Corps during World War II, veteran of Iwo Jima and Saipan, he was an avid fisherman and a Specialist on the American Stock Exchange. He is survived by his wife Emilie (Hyman) Marx, a son and daught
 MEAGHER-Joseph William. On June 16, 2001. Dear husband of Lee, loving brother of Ruth Powers and the late Robert, Walter and Agnes Meagher. Devoted uncle to his nephews and nieces. Author of ''Through Midnight Streets,'' ''The Tenement of Dreams'' and ''Tippy Locklin.'' ''He was my North, m
 ROSSI-Urico M. Age 85. Born in Waterbury, CT. Died Thursday, June 14, 2001 in Winter Park, FL. Mr. Rossi was a Professor of Music at Indiana University from 1948-82. He was first violinist of the Berkshire String Quartet, in residence at Indiana University and Music Mountain in Connecticut.
 SELLA-Emmanuel. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations joins in mourning the loss of our esteemed friend and supporter, Emmanuel Sella. His passing is a great loss to our community. We extend condolences to his wife and family. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman Ma
 SMITH-Philip. 90 years old. Of Tamarac, FL. Died peacefully on Friday, June 15, 2001. Beloved husband of Doris for 61 years. Loving father of Jeffrey, Barrie, Michael and Rita. Devoted grandfather of Melissa, Adam, Rebecca, Andrew, Joshua, Zachary, Jonathan and Bryce. Great-grandfather of S
 TASHMAN-Gerard. Died June 12, Ithaca, NY, after a long illness. Formerly resident of Woodmere, Long Island. He was loving father and father-in-law to Dr. and Mrs. John Spencer Tashman & Jeffrey Tashman, and grandfather to Joshua William, Hannah Elise and Katherine Clarke. A Memorial service
 TSIEN-Kia Kwei. Beloved father of Dawn Tsien, devoted husband of the late Lois Ing Tsien, and loving brother of Lily Sze, Daisy Shih and Maud Chow, passed away peacefully at the Mt. Sinai Medical Center on June 8, 2001 from complications arising from a fall. Born in Beijing, China on July 2
 TURNER-George Cary. Died peacefully at home on June 15, 2001, at the age of 63, surrounded by his family. An innovative leader and insightful visionary in the insurance industry, his integrity, wisdom, and influence will be sorely missed. Beloved husband of Kathleen Streeter, devoted father
 WACHSBERG-Harry. A renaissance man who loved life, his wife Denise, his daughter Claudie, sonin-law Edward and grandchildren Sabrina and Jonathan, family and friends. May he rest in peace. We love you. Funeral at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Monday, June 18, 
 WOODS-Herbert. The Board and Staff of Citymeals-on-Wheels express condolences to Sylvia and the entire Woods family on the death of Herbert Woods. Sylvia and Herbert, a warm and loving couple, were one of the first to open their hearts and their doors to help us feed New York's homebound el
 Russell M. Saunders, whose daring stunts in more than 100 movies overshadowed even his acrobatic antics on Santa Monica's fabled Muscle Beach, died on May 29 at a nursing home in West Los Angeles. He was 82. Doubling for actors like Alan Ladd, Gene Kelly, Red Buttons and Jack Benny,
 Aaron Green, an architect in the San Francisco Bay Area and an associate of Frank Lloyd Wright in the 1940's and 50's, died on June 5 in San Francisco. He was 84. Mr. Green was awarded the first Gold Medal of the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation this month in recognition of a half-cent
 George Abrams, an artist and type designer whose distinctive logotypes spelled out household names like B. Altman and Godiva Chocolates, died on June 7 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Great Neck Estates, N.Y. Mr. Abrams and his company, Alphabets Inc., worked with many of 
 BARRETT-Oscar Ryder, Jr. 94, of Bronxville on June 5, 2001. Married 72 years to his beloved wife Amanda, died February 4, 2001. Father of Audrey B. Bower and the late Parker C. Barrett, grandfather of six, great-grandfather of nine. Interment Bedford, NY.       
 BLOCH-Norman R., MD. Of East Hampton, NY, died Sunday, June 17, 2001. He was 86. Norman graduated from CCNY in 1936 where he received a B.S. in chemistry. He received his M.D. in 1942. He served as a captain in WWII. He was a general practitioner before specializing in OB/GYN. He was affili
 CAREY-Paul Robert, Commissioner -United States Securities and Exchange Commission passed away June 14, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Paul Robert Carey was born October 18, 1962, the beloved seventh son of Former Governor Hugh L. Carey and the late Helen Owen Carey. Hi
 COLLINS-Dr. John J. Died at his home in Blauvelt, NY, on June 16, 2001, at the age of 92. Born in NYC in 1909, Dr. Collins served as a professor of history at Fordham University for 40 years and was also a consultant to numerous independent tanker unions for more than 50 years. From 1950 un
 DUKE-James (Jim). Of Diamond Grange, Portadown and Clonskeagh. June 15th, 2001. Retired Principal of St. Andrew's College. Sadly missed by his beloved wife Veronica, sister Karleen and a wide circle of friends. Funeral Service this Monday morning at 11 o'clock in Sandford Road Church Of Ire
 KOZAK-Aaron. Died on June 16th, 2001, surrounded by his wife Patricia Kozak, his son Jeffrey Kozak and his daughter Ellen Kozak. His spirit and zest for life will never be forgotten by those who loved him. Services Monday, June 18th, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 S
 LEWIN-Stanley. Of Harrison, NY. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Devoted father of Bruce Lewin and Jamie Meadow and Mark (husband). Grandfather of Stacey and Matt Meadow. Services Monday, 1 PM, at the Jewish Community Center of Harrison, 130 Union Avenue (914) 835-2850. LEWIN-Stanley. T
 MEAGHER-Joseph William. On June 16, 2001. Dear husband of Lee, loving brother of Ruth Powers and the late Robert, Walter and Agnes Meagher. Devoted uncle to his nephews and nieces. Author of ''Through Midnight Streets,'' ''The Tenement of Dreams'' and ''Tippy Locklin.'' ''He was my North, m
 MOSS-Benjamin. Born November 13, 1961, in Boston, MA, died June 7, in Prescott, AZ. He was a superb guitarist, a computer systems analyst, ardent tennis player, fan and officiator who was beloved by all children as well as family and friends. He is survived by his father Simon and mother Ma
 REISS-Julius. Died June 14 at age 93. He was a union organizer and man of great intellect and heart. He is survived by his wife Gertrude, his children Helen, David and Andrew, and his grandchildren Emily, Peter and Joshua. A memorial service will be held Sunday, June 24, at 2 PM, at Park Sl
 SMITH-Philip. To a brother-in-law who was more like a brother and an uncle who was always there for us, he will be in our hearts forever. Gladys and Stanley, Frank and Nancy, Mitchell and Ronda, and Stuart       
 WACHSBERG-Harry. A renaissance man who loved life, his wife Denise, his daughter Claudie, sonin-law Edward and grandchildren Sabrina and Jonathan, family and friends. May he rest in peace. We love you. Funeral at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Monday, June 18, 
 WOHLBERG-Joseph. Of Denville, NJ, on Tuesday, May 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Edna (nee Getzoff) for 54-1/2 years married. A brother-in-law of Mr. and Mrs. Lester (Martha) Getzoff of New York City, NY. An uncle of Vera Miller of Guilderland, NY, Barbara Zylberman of Melbourne, Australia, a
 Joe Darion, the lyricist for ''Man of La Mancha,'' whose inspirational ballad, ''The Impossible Dream,'' became one of the most beloved pop anthems of the 1960's, died on Saturday in Lebanon, N.H. He was 90. ''Man of La Mancha,'' which opened in New York in November 1965 and ran for
 COLLINS-Dr. John J. Died at his home in Blauvelt, NY, on June 16, 2001, at the age of 92. Born in NYC in 1909, Dr. Collins served as a professor of history at Fordham University for 40 years and was also a consultant to numerous independent tanker unions for more than 50 years. From 1950 un
 DENARO-R. John. May 11, 2001, of heart failure. Age 56. Beloved son of Mary Denaro and partner of David Cawley of Brooklyn. Organist and Choir Director, St. Saviour's RC Church, Brooklyn. Director Park Slope Singers and member Stonewall Chorale. He is greatly missed by friends, family and t
 GUENTHER-John L. Died peacefully, on June 17, in his 91st year. Predeceased by his wife, Catherine; devoted and proud father of Ian, Colin and Hector, and loving grandfather of six. Passionate writer and publisher of poetry and other works. Memorial service Tuesday, June 19, 6 PM, at Graham
 KOZAK-Aaron. We have loss a very special and true friend and celebrate his life for everything he brought to ours. We will remember his sparkling eyes always. Our deepest sorrow to Pat, Ellen and Jeffrey. Suzanne and Sandy Schlesinger and Tom Gannon KOZAK-Aaron. The Rodgers and Hamm
 MILNER-James. Beloved husband of Jean. Devoted father of Mary Wittner and Robert Milner their spouses Andrew Wittner and Saralee Milner. Cherished grandfather of Pamela D'Alexander, Diane Wittner and Steve Wittner, and their spouses Jon Acheson, Doug D'Alexander and Jane Wittner. Adored gre
 MORRIS-Maurice. June 17, 2001. Survived by his daughter Fiona (Zane Dick), granddaughter Marissa Dick. Graveside services on Friday, 2 PM in St. Michael's Cemetery, East Elmhurst, Queens.       
 SAREZKY-Monroe Uris. Died June 4, surrounded by his loving family. Born in Brooklyn in 1918, son of Eugene and Gussie Uris Sarezky. Mr. Sarezky was a key player in Fairfield County's building boom beginning in the 1950's. His firm, Monroe Construction Co. built high-rise apartments in Stamf
 SPECTOR-Joseph R., attorney. Born April 16, 1923, died June 17, 2001. Former corporate council for Singer Corp and Vice President and General Council for UMC Inds. and Crane. Graduate of Dartmouth College '46 and Cornell Law School '52. Survived by his lifetime companion of 54 years, Ralph 
 TAYLOR-Jerome, 82. Died June 17, after a courageous struggle with cancer. He leaves a devoted family, wife Norma, son Richard, daughter and son-in-law Joanna and Jack Lester, grandson Sam and sister Betty Merino. He will be missed by his many friends and relatives.       
 Dr. Robert M. Heyssel, a former president of the Johns Hopkins Hospital who oversaw a major expansion there and worked to improve the delivery of health services, especially to the poor, died on Wednesday in Seaford, Del., where he lived. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, Elaine
 Sam Jethroe, a star center fielder of the Negro leagues who was named rookie of the year while with the 1950 Boston Braves at age 32 and is the oldest player ever to receive the award, died last Saturday at a hospital in Erie, Pa. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, his family 
 David Sylvester, for many years an influential critic, exhibition organizer and shaper of opinion in the international modern-art field, died on Monday in London. He was 76 and lived in London. The cause was colon cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Tate Gallery. Mr. Sylveste
 Dr. Donald J. Cram, who shared the 1987 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for synthesizing molecules that mimicked some of the chemical reactions of life, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said the University of California at Los Angeles, wher
 Harold A. Jerry Jr., a past New York State public service commissioner who played a major role in a state plan to save the Adirondacks from overdevelopment, died on June 9 at his home in Albany. He was 81 and also lived in Speculator, N.Y. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 Neil Vander Dussen, a former president of the Sony Corporation of America, died on June 9 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Savannah, Ga. Mr. Vander Dussen, a resident of Bluffton, S.C., was 69. The cause was a brain aneurysm, his wife, Gerie, said. After a 24-year career with RCA
 BEAUDOIN-John Paul. We deeply regret the passing of John Paul Beaudoin, survived by his loving wife Jeanne, father to Vivian Agrusa, Jessica, Jennifer and Julia Beaudoin. Brother to Claude Beaudoin and grandfather to John Ross and Francesca. He was born in Manchester, NH, joined the navy in
 CAREY-Paul R. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America extend their deepest sympathy to the Hon. Hugh L. Carey and his family on the loss of a beloved son and brother. We were thankful for Paul's friendship and support of New York City's Scouts. He will be
 DARION-Joe. Joe Darion and I created the score for ''Man of La Mancha.'' We became parents of a classic. We shared many things, including a birthday (January 30th). I am forever grateful that he shared his creative life with me and I will remember him forever. Rest in peace, Joe. Mitch Leig
 FLOYD-Andrew Leslie, Ph.D. Economist, Travel Consultant. May 22, 2001. Born Laszlo Endre Fenyo; Szeged, Hungary, Sept 5, 1920. Beloved husband of Elizabeth McFall Floyd, loving father of Laszlo and Istvan Fenyo, loving grandfather of Zsolt Fenyo. Andrew cherished his family, his many friend
 HIRSCH-Cantor Erwin. On June 18, 2001. Beloved husband of Martha, with whom he not only shared a wonderful life but a career. They worked together for over 50 years as Cantor and organist for Congregation Habonim bringing beautiful prayer and music to all. Loving father of Judi Travis and h
 HOGAN-Charles C., M.D. The Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine and the faculty, staff and candidates of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Charles Hogan. We are grateful to him for his contributions to the
 KOZAK-Aaron. We have lost a very special and true friend and celebrate his life for everything he brought to ours. We will remember his sparkling eyes always. Our deepest sorrow to Pat, Ellen and Jeffrey. Suzanne and Sandy Schlesinger and Tom Gannon KOZAK-Aaron. We will always remem
 LENT-Harold H., Jr. Maj. USAFR (Ret.) (Bud or Buddy to his family and friends). Died on June 14, 2001, age 78. He was born and grew up in Peekskill, NY. In World War II he served as a navigator with the 15th Air Force in Italy, completing 35 combat missions, for which he was awarded the Dis
 MITCHELL-Huxley V. Was born in Dominica, W.I. on June 15, 1926 and died June 16, 2001. Huxley is survived by his wife, Audrey, and their three children: Victoria, Dennis, Lynne and their spouses, Richard, Akiyo & Anthony. He also leaves behind five grandchildren: Sean, Sheldon, Ryan, Kyle a
 RIESEL-Mel. Beloved husband, son, brother, brother-in-law and uncle. A kind, caring, decent human being who was genuinely liked and respected by all who knew him. They don't make 'em any better. He left a void that cannot be filled. Donations in his memory may be made to The American Diabet
 SELLA - Emmanuel. AIPAC mourns the loss of our dear friend and supporter, Emmanuel Sella. His commitment and devotion to Israel's security was an inspiration to us all. American Israel Public Affairs Committee       
 Barton Mumaw, a member of Ted Shawn's pioneering all-male dance company of the 1930's and a performer in many modern-dance and musical theater productions, died on Monday in Clearwater, Fla., his home for many years. He was 88. Mr. Mumaw was long associated with Jacob's Pillow, the 
 FELICE-Henry ''Jack'', 86. A retired bandleader, songwriter, tv director and winner of several Emmy awards at WPIX & WNYE, died June 18th in Charlotte, NC. He is survived by his wife, Catherine, and seven children.       
 FRIEDMAN-Irwin E. Prominent Bridgeport attorney, died June 18th at the age of 90. Mr. Friedman served as municipal court judge for the town of Trumbull, was a member of the Connecticut Civil Rights Commission and became chairman in 1957. A 1932 graduate of Boston University School of Law, M
 GOLDSCHMIDT - Mirko Braco. The Board of Trustees and all Members of the Association of Yugoslav Jews USA, mourn the passing of our Vice President, Treasurer, Board of Trustees, Mirko Goldschmidt. Who died June 20, 2001 in NYC. A man of great wit and humanity. We shall forever cherish his me
 GRAVES-E. Brainard, 96, died peacefully June 18, 2001. Late residence, Providence, RI and Little Compton, RI. Predeceased by his wife Frances Peckham Smith. Graduate of Phillips Andover Academy 1923; Yale University Class of 1927. Service to be held Saturday, June 23 at 10:30 AM, Swan Point
 LIBESKIND-Nachman (Niemele). Age 92; a self-taught artist who passionately embarked on an art career at age 72. Best friend and beloved husband of Dora Blaustein Libeskind who predeceased him in 1980 and inspired him to pursue art during her long illness. A survivor of the Holocaust and Rus
 MANDELBAUM-Rabbi Bernard. Adoring and deeply loved husband of Marcelle (Rettner) and the late Judith (Werber), z'l; beloved brother of Ethel Salwen, the late Abraham, z'l, the late Dorothy Septimus, z'l; loving and cherished father of Joel and Kayla, Dasi and Paul Schlup, David, Debra, Lyma
 PERRY-Emek. Born 1932. Original voice of Kol Israel. Writer, producer, and director. Survived by his daughter Ruti Perry and grandchildren, Leor and Yael Friedman.       
 POLESTINO-Frank S. St. John's University School of Law mourns the death of longtime Professor of Law Frank S. Polestino. Professor Polestino served the School of Law from 1972 till his death on June 18, 2001. May he rest in peace.       
 QUINN-Robert J., 79 of Larchmont, NY died June 20, suddenly after knee surgery. Retired from CBS News in 1986 after a long career as a TV News Director, he was the original director for ''Face the Nation'', which began in 1954 with late Sen. Joseph McCarthy as its first guest. In 1962 as Op
 RUSSO-Frank. On June 19, 2001. Beloved husband of Antoinette. Loving father of Linda. Dear brother of Roslyn Vaccaro, Alfred and Ronald. Reposing Macken Mortuary, Inc, 52 Clinton Avenue, Rockvile Centre, NY, today 2-4, 7-9 pm. Religious service 11 am Friday at Macken's. Interment VA Nationa
 Willie Turnesa, the youngest of the famous golfing Turnesa brothers and the last surviving brother, died Saturday at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 87. The cause was pneumonia, said Pauline Sparling, one of his daughters. Three of the seven Tur
 Carroll O'Connor, an actor trained in Shakespearean drama who achieved his greatest triumph playing Archie Bunker, television's malapropian, working-class bigot from Queens, died on Thursday at a hospital in Culver City, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Malibu, Calif. The cause was a h
 Dr. Rodolphe Lucien Coigney, a French resistance hero who near the end of World War II helped persuade Heinrich Himmler, the SS chief, to release French women held in the Ravensbrück concentration camp, died on June 6 in New York. He was 89. Dr. Coigney was a medical adviser to Gen
 John Lee Hooker, the bluesman whose stark, one-chord boogies were some of the feistiest and most desolate songs of the 20th century, died yesterday in his sleep at his home in Los Altos, Calif., said his agent, Mike Kappus. He was 83. Mr. Hooker's music stayed close to its Mississip
 CAMARATA-''Monty''. Berkeley Heights, N.J. Monroe ''Monty'' Anthony Camarata died June 19, 2001 after a long illness. He died at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J., surrounded by his family. Monty was the son of Charles and Dorothy (Holtzman) Camarata. He was born and grew up in Newark, N.J.
 FRIEDMAN-Dorothy (nee Brindel), on June 20, 2001. Loving sister of Billy and his wife, Ruth. Dear friend of Dulce and Rebecca. Interment will be in Reedsville, PA.       
 GINSBERG-Albert. The Officers and Directors of Chamah, the international organization to provide education and humanitarian aide for Russian Jewry, note with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend, Albert Ginsberg. His contributions to Russian Jewry and the State of Israel is unparalle
 LIPP-Leo. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle and friend, died in Sarasota, FL on June 18, 2001. We will miss his warmth, constant friendship and love of life. He mentored many during his years as a leader in the jewelry industry, and was a leader of his community during hi
 MANDELBAUM-Bernard. Never was there a friend more beloved nor so endeared. We enjoyed his love and appreciated his wonderful attributes for over 50 years. Our sympathy goes to his entire family. Nat & Estelle Roth MANDELBAUM-Rabbi Bernard. We mourn the loss of our dearest friend and
 MINIKES-Jack. On June 20th at the age of 86. In memory of my father, who died as he lived, quietly and kindly. A devoted husband to our mother Kitty, and her constant companion for over 62 years. A man who appreciated what he had, did not envy, and basked in the glow of his children, Michae
 NISSELSON-William J. On Tuesday, June 19, 2001 at age 56. Chief Operating Officer of Sound One, Inc., Bill Nisselson was a major figure in the New York post-production film world. Widely admired for his support of the independent film community, his warmth, generosity and humor touched the 
 STEIN-Harry B. Passed away on June 21, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Fischbach). Devoted father of Juliet Stein, Susan and Martin Danoff, Nina and Irwin Wolf. Cherished grandfather of Linda and Michael Perrella, Deborah Chesbrough, Stephen Salee and Hans Lupold, Douglas Danoff, Jennif
 POST-Sheldon. September 5, 1936June 25, 1988. Founder Chelsea Pines Inn. Chairman NYC Gay Men's Chorus. Board, Congregation Beth Simchat Torah. As we begin Gay Pride weekend it is important to remember those in the gay community who were lost in the still raging AIDS war. Sheldon was an out
 Paolo Emilio Taviani, a wartime resistance fighter and a founding father of the Italian Republic and the Christian Democratic Party that dominated it in the postwar era, died on Monday in Rome. He was 88. He suffered a stroke, it was announced in the upper chamber of Parliament, whe
 James Parker, a curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for nearly 50 years who was perhaps best known for his creation of the  Wrightsman rooms of 18th-century French furniture, died on Wednesday  at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said James Draper, a cur
 Lincoln Constance, a world-renowned botanist who helped explain the cell structure and chromosomes of some agricultural mainstays, died on June 11 at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 92. Dr. Constance, botany professor at the University of California at Berkeley, was a leading 
 HERTZ-Abe. Beloved husband of the late Fay. Adored father of Eileen and Howard Grunther, Karen and David Freedberg. Cherished and loving Poppy of Richard and Kelly, Scott and Lisa, Andrew and Elissa. Loving great-grandfather of Sam and Adam. A man of great character and generosity. An unsur
 KAGEL-Reuben. October 18, 1902 to June 22, 2001. Beloved husband of Kathryn & the late Sylvia Kagel. Loving father, grandfather and great-grandfather. A wonderful teacher and role model. He viewed life with wit and wisdom.       
 MANDELBAUM-Rabbi Bernard. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. He served the Jewish Theological Seminary with distinction as professor of midrash, director of its Religio-Psychiatry Institute, and, from 1966 until 1972, as its president. He is the author of 
 STEIN-Harry B. Passed away on June 21, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Fischbach). Devoted father of Juliet Stein, Susan and Martin Danoff, Nina and Irwin Wolf. Cherished grandfather of Linda and Michael Perrella, Deborah Chesbrough, Steven Salee and Hans Lupold, Douglas Danoff, Jennife
 WHITE-Charles S., Rev. CSP. On June 21, 2001, at age 83. Born in Holyoke, MA, he was ordained a Paulist priest on May 1, 1948. Fr. White served as a missionary, preaching and serving in Winchester, TN; Los Angeles, CA; Chicago, IL. His pastoral gifts were realized as a parish priest in Aust
 Sripati Chandrasekhar, an Indian demographer and government minister who fought a tireless and so far losing battle to reduce his country's soaring population, died on June 14 in San Diego, Calif. He was 83. He died after two strokes, his wife, Ann Downes Chandrasekhar, said.       
 David Joseph Goldberg, a lawyer who was chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority as well as the state's first commissioner of transportation, died on Monday at his home in Lawrenceville, N.J. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Goldberg practiced law
 Dr. James H. Sammons, a former top executive of the American Medical Association who turned the organization around during a financial crisis in the 1980's, died on June 17 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 74. The causes were cancer and a heart ailment, an A.M.A. spokeswoman said.
 AHNERT-Robert M. Of Bushkill, Pennsylvania and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, died on May 22, 2001 in Fort Lauderdale. He is survived by Margaret, his loving wife of 21 years, a son David, and five grandchildren.       
 CHOW-Wen Tsing. Noted aerospace engineer and digital computer pioneer, on June 14, 2001. He pioneered the use of photochemical circuitry, developed the inertial guidance system for Atlas ICBM, and formulated the design of the first all solid state space-borne digital computer. He retired as
 COLLINS-Kenneth R. Age 46, of New York City, formerly of Grenada, MS, died at his home in New York on June 22, 2001. Kenn was preceded in death by his father, Clinton U. Collins. He is survived by his mother Ruby S. Collins of Grenada, MS, three brothers Jan Collins, Kevin Collins, and Kell
 CRONKITE-Eugene P., M.D. Died peacefully June 23, 2001. Distinguished leader, researcher, teacher, role model and friend to hundreds. We admired him, we loved him and we will miss him. Kanti Rai, on behalf of his students around the world       
 CRYSTALL-Jesse. Age 81. On June 17, 2001, in Hackettstown, NJ, after an extended hospitalization. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, and graduated from Brooklyn College. He is survived by his wife Beverley, his three daughters, a son-in-law & two granddaughters. He is also survived by a brother a
 FARB-Gene. Visionary entrepreneur, president Whole Earth Access, passed peacefully at home June 13, 2001, of colon cancer. Gene was 55, born and raised in Brooklyn: BA, City College, NY and MA GWU. Gene created the the New Earth Exposition pioneering solar energy and alternative lifestyles,
 FREED-Lester ''Leke 1'' H. Of Manhattan, died Thursday, June 7, 2001, in New Hampton, NY. The son of Lester H. Freed Sr and Dorothy Harrington, born on March 23, 1940, in Pennsylvania. He was an alumnus of The Hill School and Princeton University. Les was a member of the Actor's Guild and C
 GINSBERG-Albert. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Albert Ginsberg, esteemed Vice President, Board Member, valued member of our extended family, but most of all, cherished friend. Al was a kind, sensitive and caring person, as evidenced by his reaching out to he
 GROSS-Joel. On May 26, age 97, in Canton, MA. Born in Jersey City, NJ, he was a Columbia College and Law School graduate and practiced law for many years in Newark where he was active in Jewish civic and philanthropic organizations. He held the position of Chairman of the Essex County Unite
 HADLEY-Philip N. Of Danbury, CT., died June 20, 2001 at age of 73. Devoted husband of the late Flora Werner Hadley. His warmth, grace and generosity will long be remembered by family & friends. Services at the Hull Funeral Home of Danbury, CT. at 3 P.M., on Sunday, June 24th. Interment is a
 HERTZ-Abe. Beloved husband of the late Fay. Adored father of Eileen and Howard Grunther, Karen and David Freedberg. Cherished and loving Poppy of Richard and Kelly, Scott and Lisa, Andrew and Elissa. Loving great-grandfather of Sam and Adam. A man of great character and generosity. An unsur
 KAGEL-Dr. Reuben. October 18, 1902 to June 22, 2001. Beloved husband of Kathryn & the late Sylvia Kagel. Loving father, grandfather and great-grandfather. A wonderful teacher and role model. He viewed life with wit and wisdom.       
 MANDELBAUM-Bernard. Warm Rabbi, Teacher, and Preacher. He encouraged the efforts of Media Judaica to advance ''spiritual renewal and genuine diversity in Conservative Judaism,'' while he upheld traditional values in a kind and generous spirit. Rabbi Jonathan D. Levine The Directors of Media
 MINIKES-Jack. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jack Minikes, beloved father of Michael Minikes, a dedicated leader who serves on the steering committee of our Wall Street Division. We extend our deepest sympathies to Michael and 
 ROSENFIELD-Leon. On June 21, 2001. Passed away while vacationing in Las Vegas. He is survived by his longtime friend Laura Falb, his sisters Pearl Paratore and Theresa Kawalec and many nieces and nephews. Services will be at 1 PM at the George T. Davis Funeral Home, 14 LeCount Place, New Ro
 SIEGEL-Robert F. Died on Sunday, June 17, 2001 after a valiant fight against a rare mitochondrial disease. Robert was a successful executive in financial services. The death of this brilliant, kind and gentle man is a tragic loss for his family, friends and colleagues. He is survived by his
 SPECTOR-Joseph R., attorney. Born April 16, 1923, died June 17, 2001. Former corporate council for Singer Corp and Vice President and General Council for UMC Inds. and Crane. Graduate of Dartmouth College '46 and Cornell Law School '52. Survived by his lifetime companion of 54 years, Ralph 
 STEIN-Harry B. Passed away on June 21, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Fischbach). Devoted father of Juliet Stein, Susan and Martin Danoff, Nina and Irwin Wolf. Cherished grandfather of Linda and Michael Perrella, Deborah Chesbrough, Steven Salee and Hans Lupold, Douglas Danoff, Jennife
 WOLF-Philip I. Of Singer Island, FL on June 15 at age 76 of cancer. He was the retired chairman of Pollux Corp. Over a long career in executive management at aerospace, life sciences and electronics firms, he commercialized the disposable syringe, interferon, CD, dental film processor and h
 WYSELL-Bertram J. (Buddy). Born on May 23, 1920, died June 18, 2001. Loving husband, brother, dear old dad and grandfather extraordinaire. Loved by: Wolfman, Sheila, Stretch, Rosebud, Sport, the Kid, the Little Prince, Love Bug, the Duke and all who knew him. In lieu of flowers send donatio
 CRONKITE-Eugene P., M.D. Died peacefully June 23, 2001. Distinguished leader, researcher, teacher, role model and friend to hundreds. We admired him, we loved him and we will miss him. Kanti Rai, on behalf of his students around the world       
 KARLITZ-Irwin. On June 24, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Vivian. Wonderful and loving father of Herb. Dear father-in-law of Julie. Cherished grandfather of Joelle and Jenna. Also survived by his dear sister Laura Hertzog and many loving friends. Services Tuesday at ''The Riverside,'' 76
 KLONER-Craig A. The staff of Goldman Sachs mourns the passing on June 15th of our dear friend and colleague after a seven-year battle with pancreatic cancer. Craig devoted his career to our firm, joining Goldman Sachs in 1978 and was elected a Managing Director in 1997. He achieved the high
 MINIKES-Jack. The Hineni Outreach Movement expresses heartfelt sympathy to Michael and Cheryl Minikes, upon the passing of Michael's beloved father, Jack. Our profound condolences to his wife Kitty, his son Stewart and to his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Jack Minikes left a magnif
 RUBIN-Rabbi Schulem. The Society of Practitioners of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center offers its heartfelt sympathy to our outgoing president, Dr. Moshe Rubin, his sisters Mindy and Adena, brother Eliezer, their spouses and children on the death of their father and grandfather. James D.
 WASSERSPRING - Harold. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 Dr. J. Julian Chisolm Jr., whose crusade against lead poisoning led to innovative ways to treat the condition, died on Wednesday in a retirement community in Baltimore. He was 79. He had congestive heart failure, his family said. Dr. Chisolm is credited with saving the lives
 John Cannon, president of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, died on Friday in Cologne, Germany. He was 74. The cause was apparently a heart attack, reported Variety, the show business journal. Mr. Cannon, who was president of the academy for 25 years, sup
 Joseph Picone, a tailor who specialized in men's trousers until a woman's skirt crossed the threshold of his tiny shop, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. In 1949, Mr. Picone was working out of a storefront on Fifth Avenue near 46th Street when a client sent his s
 FRIEDMAN-Edward A., Jr., M.D. Of Mt. Kisco, NY. Died peacefully June 23, 2001, after a long illness. Son of the late Edward and Lucille Friedman. Beloved husband of Sue (Richman). Loving father of Doug and Diana (Frost), James and Kendra (Boeckman), Edward III, Laurence and Judi (Landzberg)
 HEILMAN-Carl E. died on May 23, 2001, in Gibsonia, PA at the age of ninety. Mr. Heilman worked as an attorney from 1939 through 1989, serving until 1973 as a partner in the New York firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Busby, Palmer & Wood, and serving thereafter as special counsel to the firm of Csa
 HERTZ-Abe. It is with great sadness that we extend our condolences to Eileen Grunther, wife of our esteemed colleague, Howard Grunther, her sister and brother-in-law, Karen and David Freedberg, and their children and grandchildren on the loss of their beloved father, grandfather and great g
 LOU-Kou Liang. On June 23. Born in Kunming, China, 1918. Loving husband of Tai Yeong. Devoted father of Margaret, Mimi, William, daughter-in-law Debra and sonsin-law Steve and Andris. Grandfather of Jamie, Weston, Teo, Mia, Lukas, Nick and Maggie. He will be greatly missed by all of us. Ser
 McKINNEY-Robert Moody. A former U.S. Ambassador and Editor and Publisher of the Santa Fe New Mexican for more than half a century, died of pneumonia Sunday night at New York Hospital. He was 90. He was a diplomat, corporate director, conservationist, veteran and poet. McKinney served by app
 John Herbert, the Canadian playwright whose experiences in a reformatory inspired his influential play about prison homosexuality, ''Fortune and Men's Eyes,'' died on Friday at his home in Toronto. He was 75. He had been ill for a month after undergoing a biopsy to determine if he h
 ALFONSO-Ricardo, Dr. The entire Long Island College Hospital mourns the passing of Dr. Ricardo Alfonso, father of Dr. Antonio E. Alfonso, Chairman of the Dept of Surgery on June 24th, 2001. Dr. Ricardo Alfonso was living in Manila, Philippines and is survived by his wife Marita Alfonso, his
 CAGAN-Jack. On June 25, 2001 at age 80. Beloved husband for 55 years of the late Susan. WWII veteran, with a Purple Heart and Distinguished Flying Cross. He was a sr. tax auditor/US Treasury, then a CPA and tax attorney for over 40 years. He will be remembered as a man of great intellect, g
 FRIEDMAN-Edward A., Jr., M.D. Of Mt. Kisco, NY. Died peacefully June 23, 2001, after a long illness. Son of the late Edward and Lucille Friedman. Beloved husband of Sue (Richman). Loving father of Doug and Diana (Frost), James and Kendra (Boeckman), Edward III, Laurence and Judi (Landzberg)
 JACOFSKY-Glenn H. Taken from us by a senseless and selfish act, Glenn was a loving and caring husband, father, brother and friend, who will be missed. He was a nice guy. Keith and Audrey Reich       
 KELLY-John Francis. On June 25, 2001, after a gallant battle with heart disease. He was a retired psychoanalytic psychotherapist and psychiatric social worker, and more recently an amateur painter. Beloved husband of Eileen Donnellan Kelly, he also is survived by his children Mark, Paul, Ab
 KLINGENSTEIN-David. June 23, 2001. A Renaissance Man who lost a courageous battle against cancer. We will miss you. Bernard and Ann Fried, together with his host or other close friends and admirers.       
 KUFELD-Henry. Of South Fallsburg, NY, on June 24, 2001 at age 83. We mourn the passing of Henry ''Buddy'' Kufeld, our beloved uncle, brother-in-law and loving husband of the late Georgia Kufeld, OBM. The last surviving sibling of one of Brooklyn Jewry's foremost families, Buddy bore the nam
 LACY-Paul M. On June 24, 2001. Loving husband of Eileen for 39 years. Devoted father to Paul Jr. and daughter - in - law, Gloria; daughter, Claire, and son-in-law, Robert McKeon; daughter, Susan, and son-in-law, Craig Ryan. Beloved Seanfehr to six grandchildren. Dear brother to Herbert Lacy
 PICONE-Joseph. The Board of Directors and shareholders of Fifth 912 Corporation wish to extend their condolences to the family of Joseph Picone recently deceased. Mr. Picone was a longtime resident of 912 Fifth Avenue and a member of the board. May beautiful memories bring comfort to those 
 SHAPIRO-Jacob M. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and Past President and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Cong. B'nai Israel of Freeport Reuben Katz, Rabbi Emeritus Alan Dicken, Rabbi Florence Helfand, President       
 STREAN-Herbert S., Dr. On June 25, 2001. Husband of Marcia. Father of Richard and William. Grandfather of Michael and Andrew. Teacher and psychotherapist of hundreds, he will be remembered for his love and laughter. Services Wednesday, 11:15 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amste
 TOKATLIAN-Melik. On May 31, 2001. Died suddenly and quietly at home after being ill for some time. An astute businessman, he was responsible for developing a diamond stylii for the LP cartridge and manufactured diamond tools. In the late 1970's he successfully chaired a raffle committee to 
 Rabbi Bernard Mandelbaum, president from 1966 to 1971 of the Jewish Theological Seminary, the academic and spiritual center of Conservative Judaism, died June 19 at a nursing home in Plantation, Fla. He was 79 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and Tamarac, Fla. The cause was a heart 
 Robinson McIlvaine, a career diplomat who was at the center of a tense international incident while he was the American ambassador to Guinea, in West Africa, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, D.C. He was 87. Mr. McIlvaine arrived in Guinea's capital, Conakry, in October 1966
 William J. Nisselson, the longtime manager of a post-production film studio that became a haven for generations of famous and not yet famous New York directors, died on June 19 at his office in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, his colleagues 
 Clarkson Nott Potter, a publisher, writer and literary agent who founded an imprint in his own name, died Sunday at his home in Jamestown, R.I. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Helga Maass Potter. Mr. Potter was the founder and retired editor in chief 
 John Finley Yardley, a retired engineer who played a central role in the fledgling days of space flight and set the stage for the space shuttle program, died on Tuesday at his home in suburban St. Louis. He was 76. The cause was complications of cancer. Mr. Yardley was close
 BAEZ-Silvio, M.D., 85. Of Yorktown Heights and Colonel Greene Road, died Monday, June 25, 2001 at the Fletcher Allen Health Care Center in Burlington, VT. He had been living with his son and daughter in law, Ricardo and Dolores Baez on East Parkside Terrace in Barre, VT since August of last
 BELL-Clarence D., 84 years old. Of Palm Beach, Florida, died on Wednesday, June 27, 2001 following an extended illness. Formerly of New York, New York and Wilmington, Delaware, he was a resident of Palm Beach since 1985. Mr. Bell was employed as a Chemical Engineer with the Dupont Company f
 CANNON-John. The Board of Directors of the International Council of NATAS extends its deepest condolences to the family of John Cannon. For more than 25 years, John has led NATAS with dedication, commitment and great foresight. John was a man of vision who loved and understood the televisio
 MILAVEC-John E. Monroe College notes with profound regret and sadness the untimely passing of our beloved, former Vice President, who served the students, faculty and staff of the College for 25 years. His vision, leadership and marvelous understanding of people made him a great example to 
 PAYNE-John, Jr., 92, retired vice president and director of AMAX, Inc., died on June 21, 2001 at his home in Tucson, AZ. He formerly resided in New York City and Old Lyme, CT. Born in Magdalena, NM on December 6, 1908, he graduated from the University of Texas at El Paso in 1931. He worked 
 READ-Henry J. The Board of Directors, Medical Staff, Advisory Counsel and Administration of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center, mourn the passing of Henry J. Read, father of our Chairman of The Board, Henry P. Read. The Medical Center and all affiliated with it, extend their sincer
 SEGAL-William. How long did I go back with Bill? I collected rents for Bill's father. When he was still in school he became my accountant and remained my accountant, advisor, counselor and friend until we lost him. Sylvia and I feel the deepest sympathy for your loss, Andy, my continuing ac
 TEPPER-Solomon. On June 27, 2001. To our beloved Solomon, wonderful husband of Frieda, loving father of Scott, Marilyn and Bob, adoring grandfather to Eddie, devoted brother of Sid. He will be cherished and loved forever. Services Friday, June 29, 10:30AM at I.J. Morris, 46 Greenwich Street
 TURNESA-William. The Board of Directors and membership of Quaker Ridge Golf Club mourn the passing of its esteemed honorary member, Willie Turnesa. We remember him as a fine gentleman, an outstanding amateur golfer and a true friend of the game. Beth Z. Post, President Roger H. Tulcin, Secr
 Robert M. McKinney, the editor and publisher of The Santa Fe New Mexican, who fought an 11-year battle to reclaim the newspaper from the Gannett Company, died on Sunday in New York, where he maintained a residence. He was 90. Mr. McKinney, who bought The New Mexican in 1949 for $560
 Chico O'Farrill, the composer, arranger and onetime trumpeter who was one of the primary creators of Afro-Cuban jazz, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. In one of the happiest career-restoration stories of popular music, Mr. O'Farrill received more rec
 George Senesky, an all-American basketball player at St. Joseph's of Philadelphia and a player and coach for N.B.A. champion Philadelphia Warrior teams, died Monday at a hospital in Cape May Courthouse, N.J. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. A presence in Phi
 Jack Lemmon, the brash young American Everyman who evolved  into the screen's grumpiest old Everyman during a movie career that lasted a half century, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Beverly Hills. The cause was complications from cancer, said 
 Dr. Maurice Victor, a neurologist, teacher and textbook author, died on  June 21 at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 81. The cause was metastatic prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Victor was author, with Dr. Raymond D. Adams, of ''Principles of Neurology,'' a widely used
 Mortimer J. Adler, the philosopher and educator who helped create the Great Books program of learning, died yesterday at his home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 98. Dr. Adler spent much of his life combating the pragmatist philosophy of John Dewey, one of his teachers at Columbia Unive
 BELL-Clarence D., 84 years old. Of Palm Beach, Florida, died on Wednesday, June 27, 2001 following an extended illness. Formerly of New York, New York and Wilmington, Delaware, he was a resident of Palm Beach since 1985. Mr. Bell was employed as a Chemical Engineer with the Dupont Company f
 FOSTER-Howard Myron. Beloved husband of Annette Eizenberg Etlin. Loving brother of Robert and Marcia. Cherished grandfather of Jacob Seth Rubin. Fond brother-in-law of Elliot Eizenberg and Marcia. Also survived by nieces and nephews. Services Friday, June 29, 11AM, Sutton Place Synagogue. S
 KELLER-Marvin M.D., ''As for me, I shall behold Thy face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with Thy likeness'' (Ps. 17.15). Died peacefully at home, surrounded by his loving family, June 28th. He will be missed by many. KELLER-Dr. Marvin. We mourn the loss of our
 REGAN-Elton C., Died on Friday June 22. Survived by his father, brother, nephews, & nieces & other family members & loved ones.       
 REISMAN-Dr. Otto I., Professor of physics at New Jersey Institute of Technology. Born in Vienna, Austria, 1928, he fled to Italy, where he lived through the early 1950's, when he moved to New York City. He was survived by his beloved wife, Eva, of 44 years. Also the devoted father of Debora
 SULLIVAN-Raymond Peter, Jr. Died peacefully on June 27, 2001 at the age of 87 at his home in Scottsdale, Arizona. Beloved husband of the late Catherine McDonnell Sullivan, he is survived by his sister Katherine Meehan, his children R. Peter Sullivan III, Maureen Brookman, Sheila, Kevin, Kar
 William L. Rafsky, a manager in Philadelphia government for four decades, died on June 11 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 81. Mr. Rafsky, a Democrat who had worked for the War Production Board in Washington in World War II, was hired by Mayor Joseph S. Clark Jr., after his elect
 Justice Jay Andrew Rabinowitz, who as a member of the Alaska Supreme Court helped shape state law and was remembered mainly for pronouncing marijuana legal, died on June 16 at a hospital in Seattle. He was 74 and lived in Juneau and Fairbanks. The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 BRENITS-Alan N. ''Buddy''. February 1, 1930 to June 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Nancy (Rush). Devoted father of James, Donald and Andrew. Adored grandfather to Ariel, William, Joshua and Sophie. Loving brother of Helen Glantz and Evelyn Bier. His kindness and compassion will be missed by a
 DAHL-Gunnar Andreas. The Auxiliary to Bellevue Hospital notes with sadness the loss on June 16th of our longtime friend and board member, dear Gunnar. His compassion and concern for our patients, reflected in his service through the patients' library, is a legacy that will remain. We will m
 EISENSTEIN-Rabbi Ira. On June 28, in Silver Spring, MD. Husband of the late Judith. Father of Ethan, Miriam and Ann. Grandfather of Aaron Johnson. Funeral services Adat Shalom Reconstructionist Congregation, 7727 Persimmon Tree Lane, Bethesda, MD, 11AM Sunday, July 1. Interment at Judean Me
 FELDMAN-Saul M., M.D. of Fairfield, CT, prominent Bridgeport doctor, died June 29 in Bridgeport. Dr. Feldman is survived by his wife, Nancy (Newman) Feldman, his children, Bruce Feldman and Terri Silvers and Marci Sapers, step daughters Deborah Messulam and Allison Peyton, and eight grandch
 GARBARINI-Charles J. Sr. Esq. 90 years old. The Garbarini/Penna and Petro families deeply mourn the passing of our beloved CJ. He was our ''Great One.'' His long and difficult battle with Glaucoma and Parkinson's disease only enhanced his appreciation of life. He never lost his intelligence
 KIESER-Rolf. Professor of German at Queens College and the CUNY Graduate Center, born in Switzerland in 1936 and educated at the University of Zurich, died peacefully on June 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Tamara S. Evans, cherished brother of Ursula Egli of Feldmeilen, Switzerland, and Vreni
 Robert L. Crowell, president of the Thomas Y. Crowell Company, a New York publishing house that is now part of HarperCollins, died on Friday at his home in Ponte Vedra, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Crowell joined Thomas Y. Crowell, the first American publisher of Tolstoy and Gogol, as a sale
 Dr. William H. Sewell, a sociologist who guided a study that looked at the underpinnings of success by following more than 10,000 people over 40 years, died on Sunday in Madison, Wis., where he lived. He was 91. Colleagues credit Dr. Sewell, a member of the National Academy of Scien
