 BOLDT--O'Brien. On May 28th, 2004 in Englewood, New Jersey at 86. Husband of the late Gladys (''Billie''), father of Sally, Michael, Linda and Chris. Adoring grandfather of Ben, Casey, Jason, Ian and Alden, and expectant greatgrandfather of newborn Indiana; brother of Chee-Chee McCormick, J
 COWIN--David M. Age 79, formerly a longtime resident of Manhasset, NY, passed away on May 29th at his home in Covington, LA. Born on June 19th, 1924, Mr. Cowin grew up in New York City and Bayside, Queens. He was a decorated W.W. II veteran having served with the Army in the European Theate
 FRIEDMANN--Peter L. On May 30, 2004, at age 72. Beloved husband of Marian. Loving father of Eric, Elizabeth and Jessica. Adoring grandfather of Maxwell and Grace. Devoted brother of Toni Gales and the late Robert J. S. Friedmann. Dear father-in-law of Melvyn Palmer and Dr. Irene Barbazetto.
 GRIMBILAS--George C. on May 27, 2004 at age 86. Beloved husband of Georgia Olga. Loving father of George, Jr, grandfather of George Philip and father-in-law of Susan Ann. Dear brother of Michael, Sr. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St, Wednesday June 2nd, 2-5
 GUSSMAN--Lawrence. My friend shared with me his love of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, and African Art. Over several years, he donated a large and important collection of Central African art which resulted in the Israel Museum having a leading world collection. He will forever be remembered,
 HALBREICH--Irwin (Sonny). 84, of NYC, died peacefully at home in Fairfield, CT, on May 29. Devoted father of Kathy and John. He was blessed to be loved by two wonderful women, Marilyn Mikulsky and Betty Halbreich. He is survived by his sister Mildred Katleman. Father-in-law of Mali Kelly an
 LOPER--Michael D. The Board of Governors along with the membership of Willow Ridge Country Club sadly note the passing of Michael D. Loper, our general manager, our friend. We wish to express our deepest condolences to his wife Elizabeth, his children Michael J. and Kierstin, and their enti
 MARGOLIN--Benjamin, 86, on May 31. Husband of the late Muriel. Father of Eric (Kate) and Barbara Wedeen (Ken). Grandfather of Emily. Brother of Nathaniel. Services at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 Queens Blvd., on Wednesday, at 10:30 AM. Donations in his memory to the Alzheimer's Associat
 ROSS--Arthur M., Jr. On May 20, 2004 at the age of 91, Arthur M. Ross, Jr., died peacefully at his home at 38 Glen Parkway, Hamden CT 06517 with his family by his side. Born at 599 Whitney Avenue, New Haven, on July 27th, 1912, Arthur Ross graduated from Yale University (B.S. 1934, Ph.D. in
 SWARTZ--Paul Edgar. On Sunday, May 23, 2004, at the age of 96, at his residence in Riverdale. Beloved husband of the late Edith G. (nee Williams) Swartz. Surviving are his sister Ruth M. Bankert of Hanover, PA, numerous nieces, nephews and many friends. He was a retired senior partner of Sa
 Reginald Ely Zelnik, a historian who focused on Russian labor and social studies, died May 17 in an accident at the University of California, Berkeley. He was 68. He was killed when a delivery truck accidentally backed into him as he was walking on campus, the university said.      
 BRAUN--William. May 31, 2004. Beloved husband of Florence. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Services Wednesday, June 2nd, 12:30 at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St.       
 BROOKS--Harvey. It is with deep sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the loss of Harvey Brooks, distinguished physicist, science policy advisor, and President of the Academy from 1971 to 1976. Throughout his fifty-three years as a Fellow of the Academy, he worked to 
 COX--Archibald of Brooksville, ME. and formerly of Wayland, MA, 92, died at home May 29, 2004. Beloved husband of Phyllis Ames Cox. Father of three children--Sarah Cox of Brooksville, ME, Archibald Cox, Jr. of Markleville, IN, and Phyllis Cox of Denver, CO. He is also survived by one brothe
 DAY--Herbert I. Jr. of North Caldwell and Mantoloking, NJ, 73. Beloved son of the late Herbert I. Day, Sr. and Aurora Day. He was born in the Bronx, NY and received his B.S. from Fordham University, A direct marketing executive, Day retired at 72. He is survived by his beloved wife, Barbara
 GREENBERG--Ralph. Age 92, died on May 30, 2004 in Montreal, Quebec. Beloved husband of Rebecca (Ricky) Greenberg for 61 years; loving father of Ellen and Jack Schwartz (Manhasset, NY), Annie Greenberg and Craig Huber (Eugene, OR), Fred and Lorna Greenberg (Montreal); devoted grandfather of 
 HALBERT -- Mannie. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Chemotherapy Foundation mourn with deepest sorrow the passing of Mannie Halbert, beloved Honorary Trustee, staunch benefactor and friend of 35 years. His sophisticated understanding and dedicated efforts were profoundly influential i
 McQUEEN--Robert Paige, 79, of Sarasota, FL, on May 28, 2004. Husband of the late Constance, father of Leigh (Lynne) and Kevin, grandfather of Naima and Jared, brother of Peggy Garner, nephew of Thelma Owens, companion of Muriel Powell. Donations in his memory to Sheriff's Meadow Foundation,
 NEWMAN -- Frank. The Teachers College community grieves the loss of our colleague, Frank Newman. Frank was a dreamer; a person of integrity, vision, warmth and humor; who spent his career battling for excellence, equity and a better tomorrow for education. He was a giant and there is no one
 PINES--Newcomb Baer, 84, formerly of Brooklyn and Farmingdale, New York, May 30. Brother of Anita Novick and Libby Mevorach, husband of the late Harriet Strauber, father of Barbara, Carolyn and Nancy, grandfather of Hannah, Emma and Xiao Zhen. Graduate of City College and St. John's Univers
 SINGER -- Benjamin Aaron, M.D. On May 31. Beloved father of Pamela and son-inlaw Bob Unger, grandfather of Sam and Jack. Cherished husband of the late Frances K. for 56 years, brother, brother-in-law, uncle and great-uncle. Devoted physician and friend to generations of Greenwich Villagers.
 STUART--Stanley. 79, died peacefully at St. Vincent's Hospital May 30, 2004. He leaves behind wife Anna Stuart, daughter Elizabeth Lowrance of Colorado.       
 William Manchester, a biographer who used his novelist's eye to fashion meticulously researched portraits of power, among them Gen. Douglas MacArthur, Winston Churchill and, perhaps most famously, John F. Kennedy, died yesterday at his home in Middletown, Conn. He was 82. His death 
 Nicolai Ghiaurov, the Bulgarian bass who was one of the leading opera singers of his day, died yesterday in Modena, Italy. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, said Jack Mastroianni, his American representative. He had been hospitalized because of a kidney disease. His wi
 ALLEN--Walter B., Jr., longtime resident of Norwalk, CT, on May 31, 2004. Graduate of St. Paul's School, 1944 and Yale University, 1948. He was an avid sportsman and sailor. Beloved father of Kimberly Allen Walsh, and loving companion of Charlotte Vale-Allen. Brother of Polly Allen Mellon, 
 BOURNE--Kenneth Barnes Jr., June 1, 2004. The many who knew and loved him mourn his passing. He had a heart of gold. Burial and services in the family plot, Cedar Hill Cemetery, Hartford, CT.       
 CAHANA--Rabbi Moshe. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Brith Shalom in Houston. We extend our deepest condolences to his family, especially, his son, our colleague, Rabbi Ronnie Cahana and to all who were touched thro
 FLEISHER--Amos J. 31, died unexpectedly Tuesday, June 1, 2004. Survived by his wife, Dr. Rebecca L. Paglia-Fleisher of Wayland, MA; his parents David Fleisher of Boiceville, NY and Marsha Edelstein Fleisher of Woodstock, NY; one brother Ben Fleisher of Boulder, CO; his maternal grandmother,
 FLOOD--John P. of New York City on June 1, 2004. Beloved husband of Mary Louise, adored and adoring father of Eric. He taught at Westbury Senior High School, Essex Catholic High School and Power Memorial Academy. Survived also by siblings Kevin, Joseph, Sr. Anne, SC., Jane, and Margaret. Vi
 GHIAUROV--Nicolai. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of a unique artist and beloved colleague, Nicolai Ghiaurov. With his large, velvety bass voice and imposing stage presence, he created a sensation in his 1965 Met debut as Mephistopheles in ''Faust.'' In a Met career spanning
 GRIFFIN--John Ignatius, 87, former resident of Manhattan and North Haven, CT, died Monday, May 24th, 2004, at a care facility in Sherman Oaks, CA. He was the husband of the late Carmela Barbuto Griffin, a retired librarian; and father of John M. Griffin, documentary filmmaker. He held a bac
 HOLZMAN--Philip S. With great sorrow and a deep sense of loss, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the passing of its Communications Secretary, Philip Holzman. The Esther and Sidney R. Rabb Professor at Harvard University and an innovative researcher on schizophrenia, Phil was 
 KELMAN--Charles D., MD. Died on June 1, 2004 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Ann. Devoted father to Lesley Kelman Koeppel; Jennifer, Evan, Jason and Seth Kelman, and deceased son David. Beloved father-in-law to David Koeppel. Brother and brother-in-law to Ruth and Robert Dorfman and g
 MANN--Sol, 77, died on June 1st, 2004 in Queens, NY. Beloved husband of Pam (deceased) and Ethel (deceased). Loving father of Dennis and Joy Mann (Queens, NY), David Mann (Queens, NY), Donald Mann (Brooklyn, NY), Andrew Mann (Jacksonville, FL), Douglas Mann and Jane Schweitzer (Falmouth, MA
 O'CONNELL--John D. (Jack) long time resident of Port Washington, NY, born May 26, 1915, died June 1, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Kathryn, loving husband of Marie. Dear father of Patricia Van Dusen, John Jr., Terrence, Thomas (Nancy), Kathryn, Mary Ellen Lyons (Kevin) and Daniel (Susan
 SALTZER -- Paul, passed away on May 31, 2004. Age 87. Survived by his beloved wife of 60 years, Mildred (Wurman), daughters Susan Saltzer-Drucker (Daniel) and Sandra Saltzer - Duzak (James), grandchildren, Joshua Drucker (Kristin Martin) and Matana Drucker, sister Irene, several nieces and 
 TOPF--Sam. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) are deeply saddened by the loss of Dr. Sam B. Topf of Aventura, Fla., one of our towering leaders, and most devoted and beloved friends. Honorary chairman of the Southern Region, Dr. Topf tirelessly and joyfully
 WEILLER--John Alexander, 1927-2004, of Amagansett, NY. Born NYC, longtime resident of Hartsdale, NY. Beloved husband of 47 years to Jane Kenigson Weiller. Father of Ken and Susan, Dan and Tom, Matt and Brigid, Chris and Leslie. ''Pop'' to Katie, Sam, Maureen, John, Terence, Allie and Jack. 
 WOLSTENHOLME--Sir Gordon. We mourn the passing of a beloved friend. We are fortunate to have had the privilege of knowing this passionate and cultured man and to have enjoyed for many years his irresistibly engaging intellect, charm and wit. His contributions, during a long and distinguishe
 Frank Newman, the former president of the Education Commission of the States, who helped to shape state education policy in the 1980's and 1990's and prodded colleges and universities to respond to a rapidly changing society, died on Saturday in Providence, R.I. He was 77 and lived in James
 CARTER--Wallace A., Colonel, USAF (Ret.), beloved husband of the late Rosemary (nee Farrell), devoted father of Dr. Wallace A. Carter Jr. and his wife JoAnn, & William F. Carter and his wife Lisa. Loving brother of Eileen Carter. Cherished grandfather of Christopher, Paul, Andrew, John and 
 GHIAUROV -- Nicolai. We mourn the passing of this legendary artist and noble spirit. Our prayers are with his two children, Elena and Vladimir, and with his beloved wife, Mirella Freni. J.F. Mastroianni       
 KELMAN--Charles D., MD. Died on June 1, 2004 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Ann. Devoted father to Lesley Kelman Koeppel; Jennifer, Evan, Jason and Seth Kelman, and deceased son David. Beloved father-in-law to David Koeppel. Brother and brother-in-law to Ruth and Robert Dorfman and g
 KRAMER -- Jonathan. We mourn with profound sorrow the death of composer Jonathan Kramer. Professor of Music at Columbia University. Born in 1942 in Hartford, CT. Jonathan studied compostition at Harvard University and received his Phd from the University of California at Berkeley. Beloved h
 MICHETTI--Toby (Anthony) of Yonkers, NY, died Thursday June 3, 2004. He was the loving husband of the late Phyllis (nee Colatruglio) and the beloved father of Felice, Larry and his wife Patty, and Anthony and his wife Dawn. Dear grandfather of Trisha, Matthew, Jacqueline and Lauren. Loving 
 PAPPAS -- Douglas Reed. Passed away on May 20th, 2004 while hiking in Big Bend National Park in Texas. He was 42 years old. Mr. Pappas was a lawyer with Mintz and Gold LLC in Manhattan. He was also a member of the Society for American Baseball Research. Mr. Pappas is survived by his mother 
 RIESMAN--Robert A. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Robert A. Riesman, and extends sincere sympathy to his wife, Marcia, and other members of his family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary RIESMAN--Robert A. Fo
 ROSENZWEIG -- The Hon. Joseph. Justice of the New York State Supreme Court. Died on June 3, 2004, at age 75. Beloved husband of Barbara Reede. Father of Mark and Vicki. Brother of Fran Fielding-Jones, stepfather of Amy Reede Moskowitz and Ronald Reede. Loving grandfather of Joshua and Ethan
 SCHAPPES--Morris U. June 3, aged 97, in New York. Scholar, historian, activist, writer and teacher. Editor of ''Jewish Currents'' 1958-2001. Predeceased by his wife of 62 years, Sonya Laffer Schappes, in 1992. Interment June 6, 1PM at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY. Memorial servi
 TSANTES--William C. September 1, 1926-June 2, 2004. His family of friends mourn the passing of this gentle and loving man, our pal Bill, gone too soon.       
 WALKER--George E. On June 3, 2004. Devoted to his family: wife Helene, daughters Emily and Laura and their husbands Joseph and Bert and grandchildren John, Evan and Claire. Private family services. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Riverside Church, Music Dept. 490 Riverside Dr
 Dr. Charles D. Kelman, an ophthalmologist who had an epiphany in a dentist's chair four decades ago that led to a radically simpler way for eye surgeons to remove cataracts, died Tuesday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 74. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Before Dr. Ke
 GHIAUROV -- Nicolai. We mourn the passing of this legendary artist and noble spirit. Our prayers are with his two children, Elena and Vladimir, and with his beloved wife, Mirella Freni. J.F. Mastroianni       
 GOLDSTEIN--Dr. Stanley, 75, died Friday, June 4, 2004. Adored husband of Sheila, and beloved father of David, Amy & Bruce and Matthew. Adoring grandfather of Brett Aaron. He was a graduate of Harvard Medical School, Harvard School of Dental Medicine and The Citadel. He was a practicing pedi
 KELMAN--Charles D., MD. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc. expresses its deep sorrow at the passing of Dr. Charles D. Kelman, beloved husband of Ann, cherished father of Lesley Kelman Koeppel; Jennifer, Evan, Jason and Seth Kelman, and deceased son David. Beloved fa
 LAUTENBACH -- Terry R. Long time Darien, Conn., resident and retired IBM senior executive, Terry R. Lautenbach died Wednesday in Bedford Hills, NY. He was 65. He died of heart failure, according to his family. He was with his nephew, Marc Lautenbach, at the time of his death. Born August 10
 RATTAZZI--Mario C., M.D. June 3, 2004. His wife Serena, granddaughter Sophia Papka, mother Grazia, brother Franco with his companion Margherita Simonelli, son-in-law Ron Papka with his wife Rebecca Eisenberg, sister-inlaw Teresa Rattazzi with her husband Gianni Chatrian, his niece and nephe
 RIESMAN--Robert A., on June 2, 2004, of 140 Freeman Parkway, Providence, RI. Beloved husband of Marcia (Stone) Riesman. Devoted father of Robert A. Riesman, Jr., Oak Park, IL, and Jean A. Riesman, Jersey City, NJ. Adored grandfather of Abraham and Clare. Dear brother of Martin Riesman, Newt
 ROSS--Benjamin, who died on June 2nd, 2004, was a true but quiet hero. Born in Poland in 1921, he survived the Warsaw Ghetto, Dachau, and started a new life with his wife Esther in New York. Although he came to America with nothing he went on to own three bakeries--most notably the Clearvie
 Steve Lacy, an American soprano saxophonist who spent more than half of his 50-year career living in Europe and helped legitimize his instrument in postwar jazz, died yesterday in Boston. He was 69. The cause was cancer, according to an announcement from the New England Conservatory
 Victor Reuther, the last of three brothers who helped unionize Detroit amid the labor strife of the 1930's and remained central to the growth of industrial unionism for the next third of the century, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 92. His death was announced by his family an
 Ronald Wilson Reagan, a former film star who became America's 40th president, the oldest to enter the White House but imbued with a youthful optimism rooted in the traditional virtues of a bygone era, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93. To a nation hungry for a her
 Francis Brunn, who cared little that he was often described as one of the half-dozen best jugglers of the 20th century, because his art, he said, transcended mere juggling, died on May 28 at a hospital in Frankfurt, Germany. He was 81. The cause was complications of heart surgery, s
 Jiri Weiss, a central figure of Czechoslovakia's postwar cinema, died on April 9 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91 and had lived for the last two decades in Los Angeles. His death was announced by his wife, Katerina Weiss. Mr. Weiss wrote and directed more than 20 feature fi
 Morton Cooper Feinberg, who used an aggressive and unorthodox marketing campaign to triumph over mixed reviews and sell more than three million copies of his sensational novel about an Italian-American singer, died on May 18 in Stamford, Conn.. He was 79. The cause was a complicatio
 BOURNE--Kenneth Barnes Jr., June 1, 2004. The many who knew and loved him mourn his passing. He had a heart of gold. Burial and services in the family plot, Cedar Hill Cemetery, Hartford, CT.       
 COLBURN--Richard D. Los Angeles Opera mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend Richard Colburn. His singular commitment to the performing arts, and especially his deep appreciation and joyous pleasure in experiencing the beauty and wonder of opera, has been an inspirat
 DASH--Samuel (1925-2004). The International League for Human Rights honors Mr. Samuel Dash, our beloved compatriot, fellow human rights advocate and member of our Governing Council. Mr. Dash valiantly fought for human rights throughout the world. His contributions to the construction of civ
 GOULD--James Nelson. 60, of Princeton Junction, NJ, on June 2, 2004. Loving husband of Barbara Prevosto Gould. Devoted father of Lynn M. Gould and Dr. Robert W. Gould and his wife Robin. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca Gould. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, June 8, 2004, at 9:30 AM, at S
 JACOBS--Sidney N. On June 5, 2004. Of Woodbury, LI. Beloved husband of Judy. Devoted father of Jackie Herschander, Lenny Jacobs and Linda Jacobs. Loving grandfather of Aimee, Matthew, Sara, Danielle, Leah and Ethan. Services today, 1 pm, at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho Tpke, Woodbury, LI. 
 KELMAN--Charles. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Dr. Charles Kelman, a longtime supporter and friend who was deeply committed to ADL's work. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Ann and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National
 McCLERNON -- David. The GVA Williams family mourns the passing of our friend and colleague. David was a true gentleman who always had a smile on his face and kind words for all. He will be warmly remembered by all who had the pleasure of knowing and working with him. Our heartfelt condolenc
 OFFERMAN--Robert, 62, of Port Washington, New York passed away on May 29, 2004. He was survived by beloved wife Veronica Rafael, devoted daughter Suzanne, loving mother Doris, adored sister Diane Turiel and dedicated son-in-law Solomon. Son of the late Abraham (Bimmy) Offerman. He will be m
 PFEIFER--Henry Charles, Jr. 89, of Wading River, NY, passed away June 4, 2004. He was born August 18, 1914, in NYC, son of Henry and Frances (Hilker) Pfeifer. He served with distinction in the Army during WWII, rising from private to captain and over a 24-year career to colonel. At the U.S.
 RATTAZZI--Mario C., M.D. June 3, 2004. His wife Serena, granddaughter Sophia Papka, mother Grazia, brother Franco with his companion Margherita Simonelli, son-in-law Ron Papka with his wife Rebecca Eisenberg, sister-inlaw Teresa Rattazzi with her husband Gianni Chatrian, his niece and nephe
 ROSS--Benjamin, who died on June 2nd, 2004, was a true but quiet hero. Born in Poland in 1921, he survived the Warsaw Ghetto, Dachau, and started a new life with his wife Esther in New York. Although he came to America with nothing he went on to own three bakeries--most notably the Clearvie
 VINCENT--William J., Jr., loving husband of Anne (1925-1999) and father of Judith, passed away peacefully May 30, 2004 at North Shore Hospital in Glen Cove, at the age of 84. A Glen Head resident for 60 years, he served as the Town of Oyster Bay's first Commissioner of General Services from
 WOLINETZ--Naomi. The Orthodox Union expresses its deepest sympathy to Mr. Harvey Wolinetz Sr Vice President upon the untimely loss of his dear wife Naomi. May he and his wonderful family find solace in the memory of her good deeds and good name. Harvey Blitz, President Tzvi Hersh Weinreb, E
 ORANGE--Dr. Allan H. To those who knew him, the friendships he cultivated, the warmth he displayed and the style and grace which he brought to everyone. The chasm is enormous. He's missed.       
 Alexander F. Skutch, a field naturalist and author who wrote early descriptions of Central America's tropical birds, died on May 12 at his home in Costa Rica. He was 99, said Dana Gardner, a close friend and an illustrator of some of his books. Dr. Skutch, who was born in Ma
 M. Searle Wright, a composer, teacher and master of both classic and theater pipe organ, died on Thursday in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 86. His death was announced by his lawyer, Kent Tanner. Mr. Wright, director of chapel music at St. Paul's Chapel at Columbia University from 
 AARONSON--Harold. June 4, 2004. Predeceased by his wife, Shirley. Survived by his daughters, Ricki (Larry) Lewis and Edith (Mitchell) Swetsky; grandchildren, Shawn, Heather, Sarah, Lindsay and Carley; sister, Marilyn Frier. Harold was a WWII veteran and longtime Brooklyn resident. Services 
 AMBROSE--John P., Jr. Of Annapolis, MD, formerly of Greenwich, CT, on June 4, 2004, after a valiant battle with pancreatic cancer, surrounded by his family. Loving husband to Lisa. Beloved father of John, Terese, Donna, Virginia, Anthony, Edith, Catherine, James, Meddaugh and Christopher. A
 COLBURN--Richard D. The Trustees, Musicians and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of their devoted and generous Trustee and Trustee Emeritus, since 1979, and extend their deepest sympathy to his family. His goal, he often said, was to enjoy life to the fullest, 
 KAMBER--Jonathan B. On June 6, 2004, at age 61, following a long illness. Beloved husband and best friend of Karen Mender. Loving son of Thekla and the late Harold Kamber. Jon was beautiful within and without, and was a man with rare kindness, humor and exquisite taste. Memorial services at
 KELMAN--Charles D, M.D. The Board and staff of Lighthouse International mourn the passing of Dr. Charles Kelman, recipient of its 2003 Pisart Vision Award in recognition of his revolutionary contribution to the field of ophthalmology. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Ann and his 
 McCLERNON -- David. The GVA Williams family mourns the passing of our friend and colleague. David was a true gentleman who always had a smile on his face and kind words for all. He will be warmly remembered by all who had the pleasure of knowing and working with him. Our heartfelt condolenc
 WILLIAMS--Harvey F. 81, a former Vice President of International Playtex and a decorated war veteran, passed away June 2, 2004, in Owatonna, MN. He published Travelhost Magazine (NYC suburban edition) from 1988-2003. He will be missed by his wife Patricia, daughters Jan and Casey, step-daug
 James Michael Roche, a former chairman and chief executive of General Motors, died on Sunday at his home in Belleair, Fla. He was 97. His death was announced by the company at its headquarters in Detroit. Mr. Roche, who started his 44-year career in the auto industry as a st
 AMBROSE--John P., Jr. Of Annapolis, MD, formerly of Greenwich, CT, on June 4, 2004, after a valiant battle with pancreatic cancer, surrounded by his family. Loving husband to Lisa. Beloved father of John, Terese, Donna, Virginia, Anthony, Edith, Catherine, James, Meddaugh and Christopher. A
 BAKALAR--Alan. 83, of New York City, died peacefully on June 6, 2004. Husband, father, and grandfather, World War II Army Air Corps pilot, quiet benefactor of many personally known and unknown to him. His steady presence will be sorely missed by Ruth,his wife of 62 years; his sons Jake, Nic
 GOLDBERG -- David, M.D. We mourn the passing of our dear friend David, and not so long ago, his wife Colleen. David, a healer and a renaissance man, and Colleen, a loving spirit, added much to our lives. Holidays without them will never be the same. We miss them very much. Howard & Maud Fri
 KAMBER--Jonathan B. On June 6, 2004, at age 61, following a long illness. Beloved husband and best friend of Karen Mender. Loving son of Thekla and the late Harold Kamber. Jon was beautiful within and without, and was a man with rare kindness, humor and exquisite taste. Memorial services at
 KRAUS--Benjamin. Age 45, unexpectedly on May 28, 2004. Survived by mother and step-father Julie and Philip Wright; father Stephen Kraus; brother David Kraus; and sisters Hildie Kraus and Sarah Wright. Smart, funny, resourceful, mostly self-educated, generous, loving and a damned good cook. 
 LAWRANCE--Francis C., of Southport, CT died June 3, 2004. Devoted husband of Anne Dunn Lawrance and beloved father of Sandra Lawrance Webel of Locust Valley, NY, Francis C. Lawrance, Jr. of Redding, CT. He is also survived by five grandchildren, five loving stepchildren, Cynthia Michalis, P
 McCLERNON -- David. The GVA Williams family mourns the passing of our friend and colleague. David was a true gentleman who always had a smile on his face and kind words for all. He will be warmly remembered by all who had the pleasure of knowing and working with him. Our heartfelt condolenc
 PICARD--Matthew. Left us Sunday after a lifetime of love and dedication to his family, community and legal profession. Devoted to his beloved wife Phyllis of almost half a century; his children Holly and Ken and his twin sister Lita Katz. Matty was a paragon of strength, honesty and integri
 ROSENFELT--Benjamin. Of Paterson, N.J. Beloved husband of Beatrice, adoring father of Barbara, Philip (Zell) and Stephanie Berger (Warren) and devoted grandfather of Natalie, Marjorie and Andrew. Services Tuesday, June 8, 12:30PM, Robert Schoem-Paramus, N.J. He will live in our hearts forev
 SAMUELS--Richard Z. June 7, 2004, of Lynchburg, VA. We have lost our very loyal, loved, and loving cousin, whose youth was spent in Bayonne, NJ. He was to my late brother, Norman, and myself, as much a brother as a cousin. The contributions of Dick and his wife, Dorothy Nan, to their commun
 SCHWARTZ -- Edward R. Passed away peacefully at home at age 93. Alumnus of University of Pennsylvania, Class of '31. Beloved husband and best friend for 63 years to June. Loving father of Ann Barish and son-in-law to Keith. Devoted grandfather to Christoper Edward Barish. He will always be 
 SHRIVER--Denton A., 80, died June 6, 2004, at Paoli Memorial Hospital from a sudden illness. Born on Staten Island, NY, son of Anna Fowler Shriver of Haverstraw, NY and Alfred Shriver, a founding partner of Morgan Stanley, Denton graduated from Yale University and Harvard Law School. From 1
 TANZMAN--Norman, real estate executive, former NJ State Senator and philanthropist, 85, of West End, NJ, died on June 6, 2004. Funeral services will be on June 8, 12 noon, at Congregation Adath Israel, Amboy Ave., Woodbridge, NJ. Family requests donations to Marion Tanzman Diabetes Center a
 WEINGARDEN--Louis. July 23, 1943-June 8, 1989. 15 years gone by since Louie left us. Memories of his short, influential life remain with us every day. Elaine, Margie, and those who knew and loved hi       
 Robert Quine, a noted guitarist of the New York rock scene of the 1970's and 80's who played with Richard Hell, Lou Reed and others, died last week in his home in Manhattan. He was 61. He was found dead by the police on Saturday, said James Marshall, a friend. The police found a not
 Edmund M. DiGiulio, an influential force in motion picture technology who won several Academy Awards for his innovations in cinematography, died on Friday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 76. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. DiGiulio (pronounc
 Morris U. Schappes, who as a scholar, editor and activist strove to combine his Marxist politics with a passion for Jewish history that was kindled when he was in prison, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97. His death was announced by Carol Jochnowitz, an editor of 
 FLEISCHMAJER--Raul, MD. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. Chairman of the Department of Dermatology for 17 years, Dr. Fleischmajer was highly respected, admired and recognized worldwide as a leading clinician and researcher. A d
 GEYER--William. Jr. Died June 4, 2004. The entire Circumnavigators Club expresses profound sorrow in the passing of its International Past President (1974-1975, 1989). Our deepest and sincerest sympathy to his wife, Helen, and his entire family.       
 HEINIG--John, of New York City and Millbrook, NY, died peacefully in the presence of his loving wife, Jean, on May 31, 2004, at the age of 90. Born in Berlin, he and his family left Germany in 1933 after his father, Kurt Heinig, a Social Democratic member of the Reichstag, refused to sign H
 LIPSHIE--Ronald. On June 3, 2004, attorney of Hauppauge, NY. Precious husband for 45 years of Jean lilyan, proud father of Jonathan, Candida (Matthew K.) Davis, Seth (Maureen) and Gabrielle Wilhelm. Twelve delightful grandchildren, including two sets of twins. A memorial service will be hel
 SCHWARTZ--Edward R. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member and past president, Edward R. Schwartz. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, June and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. 
 SUSSMAN -- Albert. Died peacefully at home on June 8, 2004 after a long illness. Predeceased by his loving wife, Phyllis. Beloved father and grandfather of Bernard (Katherine), Daniel (Jill), Phyllis (Zachary), Rachel and Melanie. Executive VicePresident Emeritus, International Council of S
 WALL--Sidney, 84, passed away peacefully on June 6th, 2004 at Bethesda Hospital in Boynton Beach, FL after a brief illness. He was the beloved and loving husband of Ann Wall (nee Plager), the devoted father of Roberta and Steve, beloved grandfather of Eryka, Kristen, Jill and Rebecca. He wa
 Ladislav Hecht, once the captain of Czechoslovakia's Davis Cup team and perhaps the best tennis player on the European continent immediately before World War II, died May 27 at home in Kew Gardens, Queens. He was 94. His death was announced by a grandson, Nikos Hecht, who said his g
 AYALA--Jaime J., MD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Jaime J. Ayala, MD, from the surgical house staff at the Kings Highway Division (KHD). He will be greatly missed by all who knew and worked with 
 DEMESME--Charles P., Sr. On Saturday, June 5, 2004, Charles P. DeMesme departed this life with family at his side. The viewing will be held at First Baptist Church of Crown Heights, Brooklyn, NY on Thursday, June 10, from 47pm with homegoing service Friday, 10am at same location. Interment 
 GUPTA--Arun. Age 53 of Easton, CT, beloved husband of Nutan and loving father of Kunal, Nisha, and Akash, died June 8, 2004 in St. Vincent's Medical Center from injuries sustained from a bicycle accident. His accomplishments include founding Dataease in Trumbull, Neuvis in Shelton, and brin
 LOWE--Milton, age 87 of Key Biscayne, FL passed away June 8th, 2004. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his wife Yvonne Lowe and his former wife Eleanor Lowe, daughter Mona (Dan) Morello, son Sheldon (Maria) Lowe, daughter Francine Lowe and grandchildren Billy, Alexa
 NWAJIDE--Dr. Isaac Nnamdi on June 6, 2004 at the age of 47. With heavy hearts we mourn the sudden death of our most beloved husband, father, brother, friend, Pediatrician and son-in-law. Dr. Nwajide lived life with vision, energy and passion that touched all who knew him. Visitation at Edwa
 SUSSMAN -- Albert. Died peacefully at home on June 8, 2004 after a long illness. Predeceased by his loving wife, Phyllis. Beloved father and grandfather of Bernard (Katherine), Daniel (Jill), Phyllis (Zachary), Rachel and Melanie. Executive VicePresident Emeritus, International Council of S
 WALSH--Bernard. 91, a hero of D-Day, three times decorated, died on its 60th anniversary. He was a sculpture of great sensitivity and eloquence. He was also an innovator of framing designs who pioneered in conservation techniques. He is survived by Annie, his wife of 68 years, his daughter-
 WILSON--Byron H. Died on June 2, 2004 peacefully in his sleep at his home in New York. He was the beloved father of Pamela Shirley (Wilson) Fuller of Adelphi, MD and D'Ashley Wilson of New York City, beloved father-inlaw to Arthur Fuller, beloved husband to Kathryn Reid of New York City. By
 Jonathan Kramer, a composer and musical theorist, died on June 3 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Deborah Bradley. Mr. Kramer, a professor of composition and theory at Columbia University, wrote eclectic music 
 CARBALLEIRA--Manuel J. M.D., on June 10, 2004. Graduate of Columbia College and Medical School. Served our country as a Major in the U.S. Army during WW II. On staff at St. Clare's Hospital, Doctor's Hospital and French Hospital as well as having a private practice in NYC. House Doctor for 
 FLEISCHMAJER--Raul. The Manhattan Metropolitan Dermatologic Society mourns the loss of our longtime member Raul Fleischmajer. Dr. Fleischmajer was Chairman of Dermatology at the Mount Sinai Medical Center for 17 years. He was a compassionate physician, outstanding scientist and exceptional 
 FRIEDMAN -- Stanley. The New Jersey Psychoanalytic Society mourns the loss of our colleague and friend, Stanley Friedman MD, PhD. He made valuable contributions to our field, both in his private practice and in his work at Mount Sinai Hospital in NYC and increased our knowledge with his res
 GASSMAN--Irving. June 10, 2004 at age 92. Beloved husband of the late Ray, father of Arlene Ellner May, Elyse Gordon, and Stephen Gassman and father-in-law to Meryl. Beloved grandfather to Rachel Ellner, David and Bic Gassman, Darren and Apryl Gassman, Rachel and Russell Mindick, Jeffrey Sc
 GOLDFARB--Rabbi Morris. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi of the Hillel Foundation at Cornell for 32 years. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 GOTESMAN -- Natan. 1914-2004. Beloved husband of Berta for 57 years, cherished father of Mike and Margaret, Toby and Marc, grandfather of Mardi Sloane and Brendan, survivor of the holocaust, man of extraordinary faith and builder of the Portland Orthodox community. Funeral services today at
 LOMENZO--John P. Former New York State Secretary of State, Monroe County Court Judge, died June 7, 2004 at age 88 in Rochester, NY. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy; children, Jacqueline (Joseph) McGuire, John P. (Sophia) Lomenzo Jr., Nancy (Peter) Muller, Daniel (Joo) Lomenzo, Susan Lom
 McCREERY--Robert L. On June 8, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Saunders O'Keefe. Loving father of Marina McCreery. Devoted brother of the late William C. McCreery, Gladys McCreery, Beatrice Flynn and Florence Rick. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Graduate 
 NWAJIDE--Dr. Isaac Nnamdi on June 6, 2004 at the age of 47. With heavy hearts we mourn the sudden death of our most beloved husband, father, brother, friend, Pediatrician and son-in-law. Dr. Nwajide lived life with vision, energy and passion that touched all who knew him. Visitation at Edwa
 POSNER--Charles A. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and distinguished jurist. Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty mourns with his beloved wife Lynn, their children Beth and Mark and grandchildren. Judge Posner was our valued board member 2 decades. His leadership helped serve tens of
 REAGAN--President Ronald. Florence D'Urso and her family mourn the loss of a great man and dear friend, our nation's beloved president, Ronald W. Reagan. His optimism and vision made our world a richer place; and his love of God and country set a beautiful example. We will be forever gratef
 SIMON--Salmon. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed founding member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Elaine, his children Suzanne, Steven and Louis, and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan D
 SUSSMAN--Albert. We are so grateful for our lives being enriched by Al Sussman. We remember him with great appreciation and gratitude for the enormous contribution to our industry. He was a ''mensch.'' Kimco Realty Corporation Martin S. Kimmel Milton Cooper       
 WALSH--Bernard. 91, a hero of D-Day, three times decorated, died on its 60th anniversary. He was a sculptor of great sensitivity and eloquence. He was also an innovator of framing designs who pioneered in conservation techniques. He is survived by Annie, his wife of 68 years, his daughter-i
 WILDE--Robert died Thursday, June 10, 2004 after a long illness. He leaves his wife Mary Jo Bacha Wilde and children Claire Elena, of Washington, DC, John Alexander of Boston, MA and Catherine Noelle of Pearl River, NY. He is predeceased by his brother Albert Wilde in 2002. Robert served th
 WILSON--Byron H. Died on June 2, 2004 peacefully in his sleep at his home in New York. He was the beloved father of Pamela Shirley (Wilson) Fuller of Adelphi, MD and D'Ashley Wilson of New York City, beloved father-inlaw to Arthur Fuller, beloved husband to Kathryn Reid of New York City. By
 SHEPPARD -- H.L., M.D. (Shep). 12 years. At sunrise to sunset, as long as we live, we remember him, as he is part of us       
 Ray Charles, the piano man with the bluesy voice who reshaped American music for a half-century, bringing the essence of soul to country, jazz, rock, standards and every other style of music he touched, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 73. Mr. Charles under
 Roosevelt Brown, the Hall of Fame offensive tackle who spent the last 51 years with the Giants as a player, an assistant coach and a scout, died Wednesday at his home in Columbus, N.J. He was 71. He apparently had a heart attack while gardening, his wife, Linda, said. In 195
 Eugene Raskin, a folk singer and architectural scholar who wrote the unusual 1968 hit ''Those Were the Days,'' died on Monday at his home in Manhattan, his son Michael said. He was 94. Mr. Raskin, who performed with his wife, Francesca, as Gene & Francesca, wrote the lyrics and musi
 CARBALLEIRA--Manuel J. M.D., on June 10, 2004. Graduate of Columbia College and Medical School. Served our country as a Major in the U.S. Army during WW II. On staff at St. Clare's Hospital, Doctor's Hospital and French Hospital as well as having a private practice in NYC. House Doctor for 
 ELLMAN--Alexander, M.D. 86, died June 10, 2004. Survived by his beloved wife of 60 years, Violet. Son Jonathan Ellman, M.D., daughter-inlaw Tracy, grandsons David and Alexander. Daughter Margery, sister Harriet Finkelstein, nephews Robert Millman, M.D., Howard Millman, M.D., Larry and David
 FEINBERG--Jack. On June 10, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Loving father of Barry and his wife Alison, and the late Melvyn and his wife Sally. Adoring grandfather of Asher, Naomi, Geoffrey and Anna. Great-grandfather of William and Katherine. Service Sunday 11:30AM at ''The Riversi
 FENTON--John, of New York City died June 8th, 2004 at the age of 75. Devoted husband of Yuri Fenton and beloved father of John Fenton, Anne Fenton-Wojtala and Agnes Mironov. He is also survived by six grandchildren. Graduate of Wesleyan University. He worked at U.N. University (Tokyo) as Ch
 KAHN--Bernard Lazarus, 82, of Fair Lawn, NJ. He devoted his life to Jewish charitable and religious organizations. Beloved husband of Ruth, loving sons and daughter David, Alfred and Ilene (Louis Progar), sister Anne Tobias, step-brother Nathan Farb, grandchildren Michelle and Benjamin. Pre
 SCANCARELLI--Eugene L. Of Mount Vernon passed away on June 10, 2004. He is survived by his three daughters Janine Scancarelli, Lauren Seem, Justine Diamond and his two brothers Joseph and Albert. Friends may call the funeral home on Monday 2-4 and 7-9PM. Funeral Service Tuesday at 10AM at t
 von FURSTENBERG--Egon, On June 11 at the age of 58 surrounded by his family in Rome, Italy. Diane, Alexandre, Tatiana and Lynn mourn the loss of their husband, father, friend and loved one. Egon, an Italian Fashion Designer will be remembered always as the loving free-spirited generous and 
 WATERS--Michael F. X. On June 10, 2004 at age 71, of Manhattan and Tivoli, NY. Proud graduate of Cardinal Hayes High School, Saint John's University, and Saint John's University School of Law. Director of Academic Affairs and Associate Clinical Professor at the Real Estate Institute, New Yo
 Gary Stevens, a retired New York broadcast executive and celebrity publicist, died on May 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was a heart attack, said his former wife, Naura Hayden. Mr. Stevens, who got his start at 16 while in high school as a scriptwriter for
 Harvey Brooks, a physicist and administrator at Harvard who studied and helped shape national science policies involving energy, the military and the environment, died May 28 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88. The cause was complications from congestive heart failure, said a
 John R. T. Davies, an audio engineer known for his expertise in improving the sound of reissued vintage jazz recordings, died on May 25 at his home in Burnham, Buckinghamshire, England. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his wife, Susan, said. Using a variety of techniques, ma
 ELLMAN--Alexander, M.D. 86, died June 10, 2004. Survived by his beloved wife of 60 years, Violet; son Jonathan Ellman, M.D., daughter-inlaw Tracy; grandsons David and Alexander; daughter Margery; sister Harriet Finkelstein, brother - in - law George Edwards, nephews Robert Millman, M.D., Ho
 FEINBERG--Jack. On June 10, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Loving father of Barry and his wife Alison, and the late Melvyn and his wife Sally. Adoring grandfather of Asher, Naomi, Geoffrey and Anna. Great-grandfather of William and Katherine. Service Sunday 11:30AM at ''The Riversi
 FENTON--John, of New York City died June 8th, 2004 at the age of 75. Devoted husband of Yuri Fenton and beloved father of John Fenton, Anne Fenton-Wojtala and Agnes Mironov. He is also survived by six grandchildren. Graduate of Wesleyan University. He worked at U.N. University (Tokyo) as Ch
 GOLDBERG -- David, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. William G. Stein, M.D., Pres. Barry D. Stimmel, MD, Vice Pres Elliot J. Rayfield, M
 GRANVILLE--Bernard J., 80, on June 3, 2004. Born November 8, 1923, in New York City, son of Sol and Regina Greenberg. Served with distinction in the Army during WW II. Actor, singer, cabaret performer, member of AEA, SAG, AFTRA. Bernard was an insurance broker, co-founder of the Greater Got
 HAUSBERG--Dr. Jack, 89 of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, passed away on June 11, 2004. Survived by his devoted wife, Sylvia; his loving children, Randi (Michael), Patrice (Blaine), Jill (David), and Jimmy (Linda); step-children, Steve, Margery, and Wendy (Neal); his 15 grandchil
 ORTIZ--Dimas, 61, of NYC, passed away June 4, 2004. Beloved husband of May Chew and loving dad of Holly Ortiz. His extended family and friends will miss him dearly.       
 POSNER--Hon. Charles. His family, friends, and community all suffer from his loss. Our heartfelt condolences. The Steingut Family       
 RIESMAN--Robert A. Rabbi Elazar said One who does Tzedakah, it is as if he had filled the entire world with loving-kindness. It is with this sentiment that the Boards of Directors and Trustees of Harvard Hillel mourn the loss of Robert A. Riesman. Bernard Steinberg, President Jevin Eagle, C
 ROSSI--John David. On May 31, 2004 in San Clemente, CA. Born June 4, 1927 in the Bronx to Anita and John Rossi. Served in the US Army in France and Germany in the aftermath of WWII. He had two passions in life, his family and the FDNY. Loving husband of Mary Carey, father of five, John (Mar
 SCANCARELLI--Eugene L. Of Mount Vernon passed away on June 10, 2004. He is survived by his three daughters Janine Scancarelli, Lauren Seem, Justine Diamond and his two brothers Joseph and Albert. Friends may call the funeral home on Monday 2-4 and 7-9PM. Funeral Service Tuesday at 10AM at t
 SCHWARTZ -- Edward R. Passed away peacefully at home at age 93. Alumnus of University of Pennsylvania, Class of '31. Beloved husband and best friend for 63 years to June. Loving father of Ann Barish and son-in-law to Keith. Devoted grandfather to Christoper Edward Barish. He will always be 
 SUSSMAN--Albert. Dear Al, We will each miss you in our own ways and hold dear the memory of you in our lives. Our sincere condolences to Al's sons and their families. And until we meet again, may God hold you in the palm of his hand. Leonard L. Farber Antje Farber Felicia Farber Gervais Chu
 TRAUM--Samuel Benjamin, 90, of Great Neck, NY. Widower of Edith. Father of Sara, Jessica and Irene and grandfather of Marcel and David. A highly respected CPA, he was known and loved for his passions: work, family, garden, travel and humanitarian and political beliefs. Memorial service Frid
 VENEZKY--Richard L. University of Delaware Unidel Professor, June 11, 2004. BEE and MA Cornell University; PhD Stanford University. For over three decades he was an authority on literacy, spelling and educational technology. He was an inspiring teacher, mentor and author. He is survived by 
 von FURSTENBERG--Egon, On June 11 at the age of 58 surrounded by his family in Rome, Italy. Diane, Alexandre, Tatiana and Lynn mourn the loss of their husband, father, friend and loved one. Egon, an Italian Fashion Designer will be remembered always as the loving free-spirited generous and 
 WALL--Sidney, 84, passed away peacefully on June 6th, 2004 at Bethesda Hospital in Boynton Beach, FL after a brief illness. He was the beloved and loving husband of Ann Wall (nee Plager), the devoted father of Roberta and Steve, beloved grandfather of Eryka, Kristen, Jill and Rebecca. He wa
 WATERS--Michael F. X. On June 10, 2004 at age 71, of Manhattan and Tivoli, NY. Proud graduate of Cardinal Hayes High School, Saint John's University, and Saint John's University School of Law. Director of Academic Affairs and Associate Clinical Professor at the Real Estate Institute, New Yo
 WEINSTOCK--Stephen L. On June 11, 2004. Loving father of Susan and father-in-law of Henry. Dear grandfather of Meredith, Gregg and Tali. He will be greatly missed.       
 Raymond M. Clausen Jr., a helicopter crewman in the Vietnam War who was awarded the Medal of Honor for rescuing fellow marines stranded in a minefield under enemy fire, died May 30 at a hospital in Dallas. Mr. Clausen, who lived in Ponchatoula, La., was 56. His death was announced b
 Richard E. Bush, who received the Medal of Honor for leading a charge up a mountain in the World War II battle for Okinawa and then falling on a hand grenade to protect fellow marines, died last Monday at his home in Waukegan, Ill. He was 79. The cause was a heart ailment, his son, 
 Gene Wood, a veteran announcer for television game shows like ''Family Feud'' and ''Password,'' died on May 21 at a hospital in Boston. He was 78 and had lived in Adamsville, R.I., after retiring in the late 1990's. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Wood, a nat
 CONWAY--Paul Michael. Age 48, of Verona, NJ, formerly of Bayside, Queens, on Friday, June 11, 2004. Born March 15, 1956, in Bayside, NY, the son of Margaret R. Conway and the late James J. Conway Sr. He is survived by his wife, Mary Waugh Conway and his mother, Margaret R. Conway of Bayside
 CRISCITELLO -- Thomas (Cris), of New York, NY, on June 11, 2004, from complications of lung cancer. Beloved husband of the late Robin Hale. Loving father to Mark (Maureen) and Diane (John) O'Connor. Devoted grandfather to his four grandchildren. Dearest brother of John, Richard, Joseph and 
 FINGEROTH -- Nathan D. Born in Poland and raised in NYC. Passed away on Sunday, June 13, 2004. Nathan was the beloved husband of the late Fran and the loving father of daughters Joyce and Sharon and son-in-law Robert. He was an adoring grandfather to Johanna, Sara and Leah Fine and was deep
 KEARNS--Vincent M. Of Highland Beach, FL, and Albertson, NY, on June 12, 2004, in his 92nd year. Husband of the late Elizabeth M. Kearns. Loving father of Vincent E. (Barbara), Mary E. (Jon), Robert F. (Catherine) and Richard P. (Maureen). Loving Grandpa to 14 grandchildren and 16 great-gra
 TRAUM--Samuel Benjamin, 90, of Great Neck, NY. Widower of Edith. Father of Sara, Jessica and Irene and grandfather of Marcel and David. A highly respected CPA, he was known and loved for his passions: work, family, garden, travel and humanitarian and political beliefs. Memorial service Frid
 VENEZKY--Richard L. University of Delaware Unidel Professor, June 11, 2004. BEE and MA Cornell University; PhD Stanford University. For over three decades he was an authority on literacy, spelling and educational technology. He was an inspiring teacher, mentor and author. He is survived by 
 WATERS--Michael F. X. On June 10, 2004 at age 71, of Manhattan and Tivoli, NY. Proud graduate of Cardinal Hayes High School, Saint John's University, and Saint John's University School of Law. Director of Academic Affairs and Associate Clinical Professor at the Real Estate Institute, New Yo
 Robert P. Sharp, a geologist who applied the lessons offered by a close study of Earth to the challenge of understanding other planets, died May 25 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92. Dr. Sharp's death was announced by the California Institute of Technology, where he had
 ABBE--Herbert W. It is with great sadness that we, Elisabeth Abbe, Monika, Louis, Dina and Krystal Russell, Brigitte, Michael and Michelle Vignari, Herb, Sandy, Kelly and Christopher Abbe and Heather and Zachary Davonski announce the passing of Herbert W. Abbe (Sr.). Beloved husband, father
 ALTON--David C., died on Wednesday, June 9. He was much loved and will be missed greatly. Colgate University, AB (1951); Columbia Law School, LLB (1959); Mobil Oil, Tax Counsel (1966-77); Warner Lambert, Tax Counsel and Corporate Vice President (1977-93). Mr. Alton is survived by his wife, 
 BUKIET--Joseph J. The Officers, Members of The Board and Staff of The American Society for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Joseph J. Bukiet, founding member and Vice Chairman of the Society. He was a Holocaust survivor who contributed greatly to the cause of Remembrance. Condolences to the 
 CANONICO--Salvatore L. The Associates of Canonico & Ostrowsky are saddened by the loss of its founder. He was a skilled and devoted advocate, mentor and friend. ''We will grieve not, rather find strength in what remains behind.'' Joseph Ostrowsky Richard Freggans       
 CONWAY--Paul Michael. Age 48, of Verona, NJ, formerly of Bayside, Queens, on Friday, June 11, 2004. Born March 15, 1956, in Bayside, NY, the son of Margaret R. Conway and the late James J. Conway Sr. He is survived by his wife, Mary Waugh Conway and his mother, Margaret R. Conway of Bayside
 FINGEROTH -- Nathan D. Born in Poland and raised in NYC. Passed away on Sunday, June 13, 2004. Nathan was the beloved husband of the late Fran and the loving father of daughters Joyce and Sharon and son-in-law Robert. He was an adoring grandfather to Johanna, Sara and Leah Fine and was deep
 GASS--Peter. The Trustees and staff of The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine mourn the death of Peter Gass, and thank God and his wife, Carolyn, and his family, for his longtime service as Cathedral Trustee. Committal service at St. Mary the Virgin, Chappaqua, June 27, following the 1
 GOODMAN -- Justin. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, New York, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member Justin Goodman. He will be sorely missed.       
 KANIK--Dr. William. Age 76, of Tampa, FL, formerly of Long Island, died Friday in Tampa where he resided for six years. He was an optometrist in Brooklyn for over 40 years. He was a past president of Temple Beth El in NY. Survived by his beloved wife of 45 years Phyllis, sons and daughters-
 POSNER--Honorable Charles A. Compassionate Jurist, devoted husband to Lynn, adoring father to Beth and Mark, delighted grandfather and dedicated public servant to the people of Brooklyn. Charles served as a Kings County Executive Assistant District Attorney from 1990 until his appointment t
 SANDS--Bruce A., 72, of Longboat Key, FL and Rye Brook, NY on June 13 of colon cancer at home surrounded by loved ones. He is survived by his devoted and beloved wife Lillian, his greatly loved and loving children Leslie, Karen, Stephen, Allison and Jennifer, his steadfastly devoted stepdau
 WATERS--Michael F. X. It is with profound sadness that the Real Estate Institute at New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies mourns the loss of its esteemed colleague and friend, Michael F. X. Waters. As Director of Academic Affairs and Clinical Associate Professo
 Whitman Knapp, a federal judge with a prosecutor's tenacity and a Wall Street pedigree who led New York City through a tumultuous two-year investigation into widespread police corruption in the early 1970's, died yesterday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan.  
 Dick Durrance, a pioneer American ski racer and a developer of ski areas like Sun Valley, Idaho, and Aspen, Colo., died Sunday at a nursing home in Carbondale, Colo. He was 89. His death was announced by his son Dick Jr. Starting in the late 1930's, Durrance won 17 United St
 Howard Solomon, the mild-mannered owner of the Cafe au Go Go nightclub in Greenwich Village who became an unlikely First Amendment crusader when he was arrested with the comedian Lenny Bruce on obscenity charges in 1964, died on June 3 at his home in Crestline, Calif. He was 75. The
 John G. McClelland, the flamboyant Canadian publisher who helped nurture the careers of several of Canada's most prominent writers, including Margaret Atwood, Alice Munro and Mordecai Richler, died on Monday at his home in Toronto. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, Elsa Frankl
 ARMELLINO -- Vincent V. ''Jim''. Husband for 60 years of Anne Martone Armellino of Greenwich, CT died June 15 in Greenwich. Father of Tricia Solari and Jan Duffy of Greenwich, CT. He is also survived by his two grandsons, Joseph Solari III and Ray Duffy, Jr. Before moving to Greenwich the A
 CANONICO--Salvatore L. The Associates of Canonico & Ostrowsky are saddened by the loss of its founder. He was a skilled and devoted advocate, mentor and friend. ''We will grieve not, rather find strength in what remains behind.'' Joseph Ostrowsky Richard Freggans       
 COOPER -- Stanley. Loving father of Michael Tronn Cooper and Adam T. Cooper. Former husband of Sheila Tronn. Services at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue, Wednesday, June 16, at 4:00PM. He will be greatly missed.       
 DelCASINO--Anthony A., ''Del''. 84, of Delray Beach, FL. Died Sunday, June 13, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife Frances, daughters Linda and Jeanne, his son Joseph, son-in-law Nagy and grandson James, brother Michael DelCasino and sister Grace Cucchissi. Retired Vice President of Cor
 HAMMER--Herbert H., 66, of Venice, Florida died on June 10, 2004 in Venice, Florida. He was born on October 30, 1937 in New York City and came to Venice, Florida from there in October 2003. He was vice president of Wood & Hogan located in New York City for 42 years before retiring in 2003. 
 KUKLIN--Anthony Bennett. An attorney and retired partner with Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton and Garrison, died on Monday, June 14, 2004 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack. He was 74 and lived in Larchmont, NY. A former president of the American College
 McCONNELL--Gerald Miller. June 14, 2004. Beloved husband of Mary. Devoted father of Kevin, Patricia and Sean. Loving brother of Patricia Kennedy. Memorial Service Thursday, June 17, 2004, 4PM at the Society of Illustrators, 128 E. 63 St., NYC. McCONNELL--Gerald. The Officers and Mem
 TALIAFERRO--C. Champe, of Hobe Sound, Florida on June 14, 2004. Airmail pioneer and stunt pilot in the 1920s and 1930s. Later flew DC3s to Florida and flying boats from New York to Europe. During World War II he tested fighter planes for Grumman and flew for Naval air transport. He particip
 John Adam Wallace, who founded the School for International Training in Vermont, an institution that seeks to foster understanding among young people around the world through studying and working abroad, died Friday in Lebanon, N.H. He was 88 and lived in Putney, Vt. His death was a
 BASCOM--Charles. Born in NYC on July 3, 1937, He served in the United States Navy from 1954-1958 and received an honorable discharge. In 1966 he went to work for the New York Times and worked there until the time of his death. Charles met Sylvia Yarrell of Brooklyn, NY and was married in 19
 BEER--Paul M., a former president of the Bronx County Bar Association, died on June 15 at the age of 91. He will be sadly missed by his brothers, Carl and Abraham; his sisters-in-law, Beatrice and Henny, and his many nieces and nephews.       
 CHANG--Ray F. age 59 of Flushing, Queens formerly of Teaneck, NJ, died Sunday, June 13, 2004. Loving son of Shin Chin Chang and the late Chin Chi Chang. Devoted father of Jennifer, William, and Kimberly Chang. He is also survived by three sisters; Ming Chi Lin, Ming Shin Stanton, and Ming S
 COOPER--John Joseph. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, John Joseph Cooper. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Mary and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
 GREENHUT--Sol. Uncle Sol truly lived by the command ''Love thy neighbor as thyself'' as he was truly concerned with the lives of others. When you played with Sol, he complimented you even on a fair shot. That's what his life was all about. We will miss him. Robin & Mike, Robin & Keith, Broo
 HALLER--Jack O., M.D. Beloved husband of Osna; cherished father of Evan, Teri, Ziva, Harry and Kivi; adoring grandfather of Ula Poppy. Renowned pediatric radiologist, professor and author. He touched many lives, both professionally and personally. He will be missed by all who knew him. Shiv
 KAHN--Ellen. SAR Academy mourn the loss of the beloved sister of our esteemed Trustee, Tobias Schapiro. May he and the entire family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President       
 KNAPP--Whitman. The judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York are deeply saddened by the death of our colleague, and extend our sympathy to his family. Michael B. Mukasey, Chief Judge KNAPP--Judge Whitman. You have been an inspiration to us all
 KUKLIN--Anthony B. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Anthony B. Kuklin. Tony was a partner and Of Counsel in our Real Estate Department and a member of the Paul, Weiss family for mo
 LOFTUS--Robert McNichol, age 73, of Glen Rock, NJ, died on Monday, June 14th, 2004. He was the beloved husband of Margery, cherished father of Kimberley (Joseph) Carroll, Karen Loftus and John (Linda) Loftus and adored grandfather of Patrick and Maggie Carroll and Brendan and Riley Loftus. 
 NEUWIRTH--Benjamin. CPA, died at his home in New York City June 16, 2004 at the age of 102. He is survived by his wife of seventy-three years, Anna. Beloved father of Sylvia Wagner (Robert), of Rockville, MD., and Paul D. Neuwirth (Delany), of Philadelphia, PA. He is also survived by grandc
 RYBECK--Maurice W. Age 104, of Stamford, CT and Boca Raton, FL on June 15, 2004. Survivors: his beloved wife of 77 years, Sarah; children, Joan and Norman Suslock of Fairfield, CT; Carole and Sy Haber of White Plains, NY; five grandchildren and eight great - grandchildren. Private graveside
 TYSON--Michael M., retired Kidder, Peabody and Company Vice-President, active volunteer and athlete, died suddenly Sunday while biking near his Santa Fe, New Mexico home. The cause was a massive heart attack. Michael was born in Bryn Mawr, PA, in May 1933. After spending most of his youth w
 Robert M. Teeter, a polling expert and political consultant who helped guide the Republican Party and its presidential nominees for more than 20 years, died Sunday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 65. The cause was cancer, his son, John, said. From 1968 through 1992, M
 Jacek Kuron, who inspired and tutored generations of Poles to struggle against Communist rule, serving as the ultimately successful godfather of a resistance that coalesced around the Solidarity labor union movement, died yesterday in Warsaw. He was 70 years old and had been ill for more th
 BEER--Paul M., Esq. The officers, directors and members of the Bronx County Bar Association mourn the passing of our distinguished former president and extend deepest sympathy to his family.       
 DAVIS--Jerome G., M.D., on June 6th, at the age of 89. A lifelong New Yorker, he brought joy to many, delivering thousands of children at New York Hospital. His love, warmth of spirit, strength of character and love of learning will be forever missed by his family and friends. Devoted husba
 FROMARTZ -- Bernard. 86. Lawyer and activist, was born in 1917 and died in May, 2004 in New York City. A Brooklyn native, he served in the U.S. Navy in WW II. He had a private law practice, worked on civil rights issues and launched a legal action against the Vietnam War. He represented dra
 GREENHUT--Sol. Uncle Sol truly lived by the command ''Love thy neighbor as thyself'' as he was truly concerned with the lives of others. When you played with Sol, he complimented you even on a fair shot. That's what his life was all about. We will miss him. Robin & Mike, Robin & Keith, Broo
 KOLKER -- Justin W. 75, passed away June 15, 2004. Beloved father of Larry and David. Grandfather of Danielle, Eric, Jeremy, Madeline and Seth. Friend of Harriett Loeb. New York CPA for 53 years, his gentleness, friendship and humor will be missed by many.       
 NEUWIRTH--Benjamin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Benjamin Neuwirth, a respected leader dedicated to renewing and strengthening global Jewish life. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Anna; to his children; to
 OGILVIE--William F, 73, of Elyria, OH died on June 15, 2004. Husband of 45 years of Ellen Hanlon. Father of Catherine, Joseph, William and Margaret. Brother of Joan Kenny, Marguerite Christe and the late Madeline Ullman. A memorial mass will be held at St. Francis of Assisi Church in Mt. Ki
 SEAGRAVE--Kevin Michael. June 18, 1993. Sorely missed. Forever loved His family       
 Bernard V. Vonderschmitt, an electrical engineer who led early semiconductor research efforts and who later pioneered the business of separating chip design and manufacturing, died on June 9 at his home in Jasper, Ind., from complications from a stroke, according to a spokesman for Xilinx I
 Jackie Paris, the jazz artist who first sang the words to the Thelonious Monk standard '''Round Midnight'' near the beginning of the bebop era and performed for nearly seven decades with some of the biggest names in jazz, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.     
 POWELL--Stewart. Mannes College of Music mourns the passing of Stewart Powell, longtime accompanist and vocal coach. Soft-spoken and dignified, Mr. Powell's abilities as a musician were a source of admiration to all who came into contact with him. We will miss him deeply. Joel Lester, Dean 
 TRAVAGLIANTI--Nina. The President, Board of Trustees and Officers of Long Island University extend their deepest condolences to trustee Ed Travaglianti, Chancellor of the Brooklyn campus and his family on their loss. Our thoughts and prayers are with them during this difficult time. Roger T
 ZYNCZAK--Joseph E. On June 15, at the age of 65. Beloved husband of Evelyn, devoted father of Joseph Jason and Aaron Arthur, son of Mary Seidler, and the late Joseph Zynczak, brother of Alice Fagnan, and Geraldine Parrinello. Attorney and friend to recording artists, producers and executive
 Seymour Britchky, a restaurant critic whose tart, distinctive voice covered a formative period of New York dining from 1971 to 1991, died yesterday in New York. He was 73. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, the photographer Nancy Crampton. Mr. Britchky was a 41-year-old
 Bobb Schaeffer, a curator and expert on fossil fish at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City, died on June 2 at St. John's Home in Rochester. He was 90. The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Richard W. Schaeffer. In four decades with the museum, Dr. S
 AMINI--Fariborz. Surrounded by his loving family, Dr. Fariborz Amini passed away peacefully on Sunday, June 13th, at the age of 73. Born in Iran, Fariborz Amini graduated from medical school at UCSF and served on the faculty there for 37 years. As a psychoanalyst, a child psychiatrist, an e
 BLITZER--John R. 78, died at home on Thursday, June 3. Dr. Blitzer graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1948, and trained in adult psychiatry at the Payne Whitney Clinic of New York Hospital, the teaching hospital of Cornell Medical School. He is survived by his four children and his wi
 BROWN--Robert B., 87 years old, teacher, composer and arranger of music, passed away after a long illness. He leaves his wife, Florence; daughter, Laurie, and two grandchildren, Alana and David. Robert's career spanned more than 40 years as Director of Music of the Bronxville School and Sup
 BUTCHER -- Charles. Busi nessman and philanthropist known for his generosity and passion for knowledge and justice, died at his home on June 12, 2004 after a long illness. At the time of his death, he lived in Boulder, CO, and maintained a family home in Maine. Charles Butcher was born in 1
 CARRUTH--David B. June 11, 2004. He is survived by his children, two brothers, nieces and nephews. Graduate of US Merchant Marine Academy and Cornell University. A fellow in the American Society of Landscape Architects. David was a longtime resident of Westchester and Putnam Counties. For i
 CLEMENTS--Richard K., MD, 90 years old, of NYC and Leominster, MA, died June 8th in Leominster. He was an Ophthalmologist with a private practice on Park Avenue in NYC for 50 years. Dr. Clements was a Major in the US Army during World War II and was an antique car enthusiast. Funeral servic
 ELLER--Albert. Suddenly on June 19 in Jerusalem. Mr. Eller was a former resident of Stony Brook, NY. Beloved husband of Anita (nee Rosenhan). Cherished father of Ranan Eylon, Yael (Ben) Berlinger and the late David. Adored grandfather of Gai, Levannah, Ze'ev and Assaf. Esteemed brother-in-l
 GOODMAN--Myron S. The Committee of Past Presidents of the Hebrew Academy of Five Towns & Rockaway notes with sadness the passing of Myron S. Goodman, a strong supporter of HAFTR in its early years. Myron's kindnesses, enthusiasm and positive attitude were very much appreciated by HAFTR. May
 KELMAN--Charles, MD. The creative spark of the inventor, ophthalmologist, entertainer, friend and loving family man touched the lives of many. He will be affectionately remembered at a tribute on Monday, September 13, 2004 at 11:30AM at the St. James Theater, 44 St (Broadway and 8th Ave) NY
 KNEE--Sidney ''Whitey.'' Of Brooklyn, 1913 to May 2004, at 91. All city high school four years, pro basketball. Loved tennis, skiing, golf, piano and learning. WWII Signal Corps, England, great decoding operation. Lived Japan, France and Germany after war. Predeceased by wife Jeanette of 48
 KOZINN--Dr. Philip J. The officers, trustees and members of West End Temple-Sinai Congregation, Neponsit, NY, mourn the loss of our dearly beloved member, Dr. Philip J. Kozinn. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Gladys, his children and family. Rabbi Melvyn May Stanley J. Gelda, Pre
 KUKLIN--Anthony Bennett. An attorney and retired partner with Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton and Garrison, died on Monday, June 14, 2004 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack. He was 74 and lived in Larchmont, NY. A former president of the American College
 LOVERRO--John F. On June 12, 2004. Beloved husband of Diane, devoted father of Frank, John, Anne and Thomas, adoring grandfather to Madison, RJ and Tessa and caring brother to Anita and Dorothy. More than anything else, our father loved his family. We will miss him dearly. A service was hel
 VELEZ--Alvaro. June 8, 1944 June 14, 2004. It is with great sadness that Swanke Hayden Connell announces the passing of Alvaro Velez. He worked with the firm from 1971 to 2002, achieving the position of Associate Principal. The major portion of his career was spent in New York, where he con
 ZYNCZAK--Joseph E. On June 15, at the age of 65. Beloved husband of Evelyn, devoted father of Joseph Jason and Aaron Arthur, son of Mary Seidler, and the late Joseph Zynczak, brother of Alice Fagnan, and Geraldine Parrinello. Attorney and friend to recording artists, producers and executive
 LYONS--Murray. 6/20/1917-11/03/2002. For his birthday and Father's Day we give him our eternal love and everlasting remembrance. His Loving Family       
 Spencer Klaw, a journalist and author who helped expand the scope of The Columbia Journalism Review in the 1980's, died on June 3 at his home in West Cornwall, Conn., his family said. He was 84. Mr. Klaw, who had taught magazine writing at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism 
 James Feron, a retired foreign correspondent for The New York Times who reported from London, Jerusalem and Warsaw as well as the United Nations in a 40-year career, died June 19 at a nursing home in Pittsfield, Mass., four days short of his 76th birthday. The cause was Parkinson's 
 John C. Cheasty, who became the government's star witness after James R. Hoffa of the Teamsters union recruited him to spy on a Senate committee investigating labor racketeering in the 1950's, died June 14 in Bahama, N.C. He was 96. The cause was congestive heart failure, Mr. Cheast
 AUSTIN -- James Gaylord. Died May 19, 2004. He will be missed by his many friends in New York, Southampton and Palm City, FL. Jim had successful careers as a radio and television personality in his native Cincinnati, OH, and as a public relations executive in New York. He will be remembered
 BULLER -- Arnold. Died peacefully June 20, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Naomi; sons Mark and James; daughters-in-law Sarah and Cherie; grandchildren Anna and Jesse; stepchildren Julia, Gary, Elisa, Jan; step-grandchildren Jaqi, Charlie, Adam and Cameron. He is also survi
 ROSEN--Eli. Of Boca Raton, FL, died on June 19, 2004, in his home. Beloved husband of Judy. Loving father of Lisa and Joseph. Adored and cherished grandfather of Matthew and Holly. Dear brother of Elsie Laffer. Graveside services will take place at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY, on 
 Al Lapin Jr., who started the International House of Pancakes chain by opening a family-operated restaurant with his brother, Jerry, in 1958, died last Wednesday at the U.S.C./Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said a son, Randy. Mr. Lapin, 76, 
 AUSTIN -- James Gaylord. Died May 19, 2004. He will be missed by his many friends in New York, Southampton and Palm City, FL. Jim had successful careers as a radio and television personality in his native Cincinnati, OH, and as a public relations executive in New York. He will be remembered
 DINER--Harry M. The Board of Governors and the members of the Noyac Golf Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our Founder, Dr. Harry M. Diner, and express our sympathy to his wife Mimi and entire family.       
 KOZINN--Philip, M.D. The Department of Pediatrics and Maimonides Infants and Children's Hospital of Brooklyn mourns the passing of a vital pediatrician, Dr. Philip Kozinn. Dr. Kozinn was a devoted member of the Department of Pediatrics for many decades. His devotion to science, education, r
 LAZAAR--Richard. Died on June 20, 2004 at the age of 60. Mr. Lazaar is survived by his wife Barbara, children Steven, Ari, Leslie and four grandchildren. Stepsons Shawn Carr and Brian Miller. Services will be held at the George T. Davis Funeral Home, 14 Lecount Pl, New Rochelle, NY Tuesday 
 SAMTON--Henry A., 97 years, nee Hans Szamatolski in Berlin, Germany died June 19th in Rye, New York. Husband for 67 years of late Margot Samton, father of Annette Marcus, Claude and Peter Samton; Founder Miltenberg & Samton Import-Export; Member 2 US Trade Missions Africa; longtime resident
 Bernard S. Baker, a chemical engineer whose research and entrepreneurial instincts spurred the development of large stationary fuel cells for industry, died on Monday at the Bethel Health Care Center in Bethel, Conn. He was 67. The cause was a series of strokes resulting from cancer
 Clayton Kirkpatrick, a former editor of The Chicago Tribune who presided over a sweeping transformation of the newspaper's editorial approach, died Saturday at his home in Glen Ellyn, Ill., a suburb of Chicago. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, The Tribune reported 
 Leon S. Roudiez, a professor emeritus and former head of the French department at Columbia University, died Friday at his home in Stevensville, Md. He was 86 and formerly lived in Closter, N.J. His death was announced by his family. Dr. Roudiez taught French literature in th
 Leonel Brizola, the former governor of Rio de Janeiro state and a veteran leftist whose role in trying to head off a military coup in the early 1960's made him a towering figure in Brazilian politics, died Monday night at a hospital near his home in the Copacabana district in Rio de Janeiro
 BERNSTEIN--Ben, Dr. We mourn the loss of a cherished and longtime friend. A Diamond Founder of the Medical Center, his outstretched hand of kindness made a vital difference to the health care needs of the people of Jerusalem. He will be deeply missed. Sincerest condolences to the members of
 FITERMAN--Miles. On behalf of the Board and Staff of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and the Tel Aviv Museum, we extend our deepest sympathy to Shirley on the loss of her devoted husband. Shirley and Miles, loyal and generous Board members, were honored in 2001 with AFTAM
 FRIEDMAN--Melvin J. Born September 12, 1920 and died June 22, 2004, of Rye Brook, NY. Beloved husband of Ethel. Devoted father of Gary, Harvey and Carol. Loving grandfather to Andrea, Mitchell, Nicole, Josh, Amanda, Molly, Joanna and Laura. Dear brother of Larry and Alice. We will miss him 
 GREEN--Jack L. The Officers and Directors for the Friars Foundation deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed Board member, Jack L. Green. A major force for the Foundation, Jackie was a loyal and dedicated proponent of fostering the performing arts and carried out our mission with determined 
 LANGWAY--Walter E., 92, of Rocky Point, L.I. and Palm Harbor, FL died June 15 in Florida after a long illness. With a Ph.D. from New York University, he had a long career as an executive in the New York State Employment Service and a professor at the St. John's University graduate school of
 MORGENSTERN -- Edward, suddenly on June 17, 2004. A dear friend. Will be remembered always and sorely missed by all whose lives he touched. Taught us all to live, live, live. Warren, Ralph, Bryan, Gary, Fred       
 O'CONNOR--Tim. Of New York City, beloved husband of Renee Zuckerbrot, devoted son of the late John and Theresa O'Connor, passed away suddenly on June 22, 2004. Survived by his sister Patricia O'Connor and brother Tom O'Connor. He will be sorely missed and remain forever in our hearts. Servi
 ROUDIEZ--Leon S., 86, of Stevensville, MD, formerly of Bronxville, NY, on Friday, June 18, 2004 at his residence. Surviving him are his son Francis H. Roudiez of Stevensville, MD, daughter Genevieve Roudiez of Nantucket, MA, five grandchildren, Sean MacSheehy (Ruth) and Nicole, Justin and C
 SAMTON--Henry A., 97 years, nee Hans Szamatolski in Berlin, Germany died June 19th in Rye, New York. Husband for 67 years of late Margot Samton, father of Annette Marcus, Claude and Peter Samton; Founder Miltenberg & Samton Import-Export; Member 2 US Trade Missions Africa; longtime resident
 STAVSKY--Elliott, reunited with his Creator on June 21. Devoted husband to Ruth, loving father to Lois and Isaac, Este, and Shalom. Adored grandfather of Sara and Dani. An Orthodox Jew with a universal soul. We will miss your kindness, compassion, humor and generosity of spirit. Burial in J
 GRUDER--Scott. With love to my son on his birthday. May you go with the angels. Mother       
 BURTON--James Robert III, of Bronxville, NY, age 46, died Monday, June 21. He is survived by his wife Barbara L. Burton; his children Hiller Burton, Robert Burton, and McKenzie Burton; his mother Evalyne Burton of Bronxville; his sisters Lynne Haigh of Los Angeles, CA and Dorothy Burton of 
 DORF--Charles B. June 21, 2004. He will be missed by his many friends and relatives in the New York and Palm City, FL areas. Mr. Dorf was the devoted husband of Marilou, the caring father of Robert and James and daughter-inlaw Jodie. He shared with his family his love of travel, the arts, s
 GREEN--Jack L. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved Dean Emeritus, Jack L. Green. A Member of the Friars Club for almost five decades, he was fierce in his dedication to excellence and continued support of humanitarian causes
 O'CONNOR--Tim. Of New York City, beloved husband of Renee Zuckerbrot, devoted son of the late John and Theresa O'Connor, passed away suddenly on June 22, 2004. Survived by his sister Patricia O'Connor and brother Tom O'Connor. He will be sorely missed and remain forever in our hearts. Servi
 SAMTON--Henry A. Founder of Miltenberg & Samton 60 years ago. He developed M & S to be a respected and promiment company in the worldwide confectionery industry. His business friends and associates will remember him for his dedication, knowledge, trust and hard work. In 1985, Ronald Kehle a
 SYDNEY--William J. World War II Veteran, Staff Sergeant, 331st Bomb Group Guam, printing company owner, Shakespeare enthusiast, died on June 9, 2004. Survived by his wife Claire, sons Steven and Howard and three grandchildren, Lauren, Amanda and Richard.       
 TARAKAN -- Nathan S. Passed away quietly on June 18, 2004 at the age of eightytwo. His memory will always be cherished in the hearts of his beloved wife Melba, his adoring children Lynne and Robert, and every person whose lives he touched. May he rest in peace.       
 USDAN--David. June 22, 2004. Veteran of D-Day at Normandy. Walked from Paris to Germany where he was wounded and received a Purple Heart. Beloved husband of Edith. Father of Barbara Usdan Goldberg and Dr. Richard Goldberg; grandchildren Matt and Gabe. Father of William and Susan Usdan; gran
 Dr. Thomas Gold, an astrophysicist at Cornell University whose wide-ranging work touched on lunar exploration, the origins of oil and the creation of the universe, often in the face of accepted theories, died on Tuesday at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 84. The cause w
 Miles Fiterman, a businessman whose donation of a $30 million building to the Borough of Manhattan Community College in 1993 was one of the largest gifts ever to a community college, died on Monday in Rochester, Minn. He was 84 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla. He died of heart failure 
 FINGER--Avram Carrel, M.D. Died unexpectably in West Palm Beach after suffering a stroke. He is survived by his wife Judith, children John Thomason, Peggy Sugar, Paul Finger and Elizabeth Finger, stepchildren David Scott and Cindy Pober, nine grandchildren, sister Ruth Diamond. Retired psyc
 LING--George L., Jr., 73, of Fair Lawn, NJ, died Monday, June 21. He was a lawyer and certified public accountant and a founding partner of Behan, Ling & Ruta, New York City. He was a member of the New York and New Jersey Bar associations. He was a graduate of Pace University and Fordham La
 MARTINI--Nael, M.D. Dr. O. Wayne Isom and the entire Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery notes with sorrow the passing after a long illness of our friend and colleague Nael Martini, M.D. Dr. Martini, the former Chief of Thoracic Services at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, was a car
 SEIDMAN--Bert. The officers, staff and members of the Jewish Labor Committee note with deep sadness the passing of Bert Seidman, a Vice President and longtime leader in our organization. For many years active in our Washington DC Chapter, he was a thoughtful and dedicated trade unionist, wh
 USDAN--David. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, David Usdan. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Edith and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary USDA
 Robert W. Bemer, an early computer programmer, who helped devise Ascii, a system for representing letters and numbers in code that is still in use, died Tuesday evening at his home in Possum Kingdom Lake, Tex., west of Fort Worth. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his stepson, Glen P
 Bernard Russell Seidman, at the forefront of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s efforts to improve Social Security and pension benefits, died on Thursday at his home in Falls Church, Va., the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced. He was 84. For decades, Mr. Seidman worked closely with George Meany, the A.F.L.-
 Herman Heine Goldstine, a mathematician who worked on the earliest electronic computers and helped the military develop the famous Eniac, died on June 16 at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 90. His death was announced by the T.J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., wh
 BLOCK--Sidney, born August 15, 1910 in New Haven, CT. Beloved husband of 66 years to Lillian. Loving father of Stephen and Gloria, Sandy and Joanie. Devoted grandfather of Alison, Michael, Daniel and Matthew, and proud great grandfather of Joshua and Madeline. 1932 graduate of NYU. Former D
 DICKERMAN--Watson B. of Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of Cambridge, June 16. Beloved son of Mary McB. Gaynor of Essex, CT., and the late Watson Dickerman. Loving brother of Mary Swann of New Park, PA, Elaine Gifford and Holly Dickerman of Sudbury, MA, and Katherine Marine of Tucson, AZ. Also sur
 KOVEN--Leo J. Beloved husband for 55 years of Joan Cummings Koven, devoted father of David and Diane, Richard and Melinda, and Suzanne and Carlo, and adored grandfather of Julia, Rachel, Sophie, Lily, Tony, Giancarlo, and Sam, and loving brother of Jean K. Miller. Dr. Koven passed away on J
 LIEBERMAN--Warren. Died unexpectedly June 24, at 56. Beloved husband of Linda Hirsch, adored father of Jacob Lieberman, loving brother of Lila Winder and Harriet Avramescu, devoted brotherin-law, uncle and friend to so many. A creative, gentle spirit, gifted photographer, artist, teacher, a
 SCHWARTZ -- Robert. The President, Chairman of the Board, Executive Board, Board of Education, Board of Trustees, administration, faculty, parents and students of the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway (HAFTR) deeply mourn the loss of our esteemed and dedicated Executive Director
 SEIDMAN--Bert. At his home in Falls Church, VA, on Thursday, June 24, 2004. Beloved father of Margaret Seidman of Fairfax, VA, Joan Seidman Welsh of Arlington, VA, and Elizabeth Seidman Garaufis of Queens, NY. His wife, Annabel Seidman, preceded him in death. He is also survived by two brot
 Danny Dark, the unseen voice of Budweiser, StarKist Tuna and many other national brands in television and radio commercials, died on June 13 in Los Angeles. He was 65. The cause of death was bleeding in the lungs, said Mr. Dark's brother, the Rev. Robert Croskery. The trade 
 DOLLARD--Michael. 71, on June 24, 2004. His passion, knowledge, humour and eccentricities will be missed by his family and friends. His indomitable spirit for life and art will be with us forever. He is survived by wife Dongju (Angie), three children, Marcus (Kathy), Lilith and Timothy, and
 FRUMKIN -- Benjamin. 93, died June 24, 2004 after a nice, long life enriched by the love of his wife Sunny, his children Barbara, Neal, Yvette and their spouses, grandchildren Kera, Alena, Ann, Jesse, Lori, Matthew, Joanna and one great-granchild Sara, as well as many other relatives and fr
 KAHAN--Benjamin. On Friday, June 25. Survived by daughter Jane, granddaughter Melissa, beloved nephews, nieces and friends. Donations in his memory to American Cancer Society, Massachusetts Audubon Society or New Life Dance.       
 KOVEN--Leo J. Beloved husband for 55 years of Joan Cummings Koven, devoted father of David and Diane, Richard and Melinda, and Suzanne and Carlo, and adored grandfather of Julia, Rachel, Sophie, Lily, Tony, Giancarlo, and Sam, and loving brother of Jean K. Miller. Dr. Koven passed away on J
 MAASS--Herbert Halsey Jr. Passed away in Mission Viejo, CA on June 21, 2004 after a battle with Parkinson's disease. He was born on March 18, 1919 in NYC. After graduating from Brown University he served as an officer in the U.S. Army during World War II at Bletchley Park, England, where he
 QUALBEN--Dr. Paul A., 79. On Thursday, June 24, 2004 in Brooklyn. Family and friends mourn his death after a brief illness. Visitors will be received Monday 3-7PM at the Trinity Lutheran Church, 411 46th St., Brooklyn. Worship service to follow at 7PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may 
 ROBBIE--Seymour, a prolific television director from the earliest days of the medium, died June 17th at his Beverly Hills home after a long battle with ALS. He was 84. Robbie, who grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, entered the business as a pageboy for CBS in New York and was soon
 ROTHMAN--Shelly. 80, on June 25, 2004. Son of the late William and Beatrice, he was preceded in death by daughter Laurie, brother Harold and sister Beverly. Surviving are loving sisters Carolyn Stein, Judith Rothman and sister-in-law Lenora, devoted niece Donna Stein, nieces and nephews. Sh
 ROUDIEZ--Leon S., 86, of Stevensville, MD, formerly of Bronxville, NY, on Friday, June 18, 2004 at his residence. Surviving him are his son Francis H. Roudiez of Stevensville, MD, daughter Genevieve Roudiez of Nantucket, MA, five grandchildren, Sean MacSheehy (Ruth) and Nicole, Justin and C
 SCHWARTZ -- Robert. The President, Chairman of the Board, Executive Board, Board of Education, Board of Trustees, administration, faculty, parents and students of the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway (HAFTR) deeply mourn the loss of our esteemed and dedicated Executive Director
 SEAMAN--William. William Bernard Seaman, M.D., a leader among radiologists in New York and nationwide in the 1960s and 70s, passed away in his home in Tequesta, Florida on June 7, 2004. Dr. Seaman, who was 87 years old at the time of his death, was born in Iron Mountain, MI, the son of Doro
 SEIDMAN--Bert. We sadly mourn the passing of our beloved brother and proudly praise his lifetime of devotion and achievement on behalf of American workers in his various important positions in the national AFL-CIO. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his daughters Peggy, Joan and Elizabeth (
 STEPANEK -- Matthew J.T. 1990-2004. With deepest sorrow we mourn the loss of this extraordinary young poet, peacemaker and MDA National Goodwill Ambassador. We extend our love and compassion to his mother, Jeni Stepanek, who's lost her four children to mitochondrial myopathy. In his 13 year
 TARAKAN -- Nathan S. Passed away quietly on June 18, 2004 at the age of eightytwo. His memory will always be cherished in the hearts of his beloved wife Melba, his adoring children Lynne and Robert, and every person whose lives he touched. May he rest in peace.       
 WASSERMAN--Joseph, 73, architect and past president of the NY chapter of the AIA, died June 25th in Stockbridge, MA. He is survived by his wife, Jane Ryan of Stockbridge; three daughters, Lindsay, Andrea and Marion Wasserman; six grandchildren; step-daughters, Nina and Laura Ryan; former wi
 SULZBERGER -- Edward. June 30, 1988. Our memories of Eddie's love of life and of us, of his steady patriarchal hand, and especially of his wonderful smile are undiminished in these 16 years. The Famil       
 Stuart Hampshire, an influential philosopher at Oxford and Princeton universities, died June 13 at his home in Oxford, England. He was 89. His death was confirmed by his wife, Nancy Cartwright. Professor Hampshire, who headed the philosophy department at Princeton from 1963 to 1970,
 Bertrand Russell Seidman, who was at the forefront of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s efforts to improve Social Security and pension benefits, died on Thursday at his home in Falls Church, Va., the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced. He was 84. For decades, Mr. Seidman worked closely with George Meany, th
 Fari Amini, a psychiatrist known for his work linking memory with bonds formed in childhood, died June 13 at Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 73 and lived in nearby Ross. The cause was a heart attack he had several days earlier, his family said. Dr. Amini, 
 Dr. Joseph L. Doob, a mathematician who studied and wrote extensively about probability theory, which has applications in insurance, polling and other fields, died June 7 at Clark-Lindsey Village in Urbana, Ill. He was 94. The cause was liver cancer, said Dr. Joseph Rosenblatt, a co
 MULLEN--Bill. Advertising man, art director, actor, cook, loved Cindi, loved life, loved his friends. We will miss him forever. Bobbie, Barney, Stan, Frank       
 OBI--Christopher. The Board of Directors of the Harlem School of the Arts mourns the untimely passing of Christopher Obi, the school's Chief Financial Officer. He was a dedicated professional and a man of consummate dignity.       
 ONDERDONK -- John C. ''Jack.'' Of Chestnut Ridge, NY, died Friday, June 25, 2004, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Born in Englewood, NJ, on July 20, 1931, Jack was an AllCounty basketball player at Dwight Morrow High School before attending Duke University and servin
 SCHNEIDER -- Joseph. Be loved husband for 52 years of Leila. Devoted father of Nancy and David, Hallie, Emily and Michael, and Adam. Adored grandfather of Rebecca, Noah, Reyzl, Gabriela and Israel. He is remembered above all for his love of his family.       
 STEPANEK -- Matthew J.T. 1990-2004. With deepest sorrow we mourn the loss of this extraordinary young poet, peacemaker and MDA National Goodwill Ambassador. We extend our love and compassion to his mother, Jeni Stepanek, who's lost her four children to mitochondrial myopathy. In his 13 year
 FORELLE--Conrad. Of W. Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Westhampton Beach and Muttontown, NY, on June 27, 2004 at age 89 years. Husband of Blanche for 64 years, father of John, Anne, Jane and Frank; grandfather of Kevin McCarthy, Charles, Luke, Chas, Taylor Casey, Elizabeth and Grace. He was bor
 IMPERATORE--George E., 82, of Boca Raton, Florida formerly of Franklin Lakes died on June 25, 2004 in Boca Raton. Family sources report that Mr. Imperatore's death resulted from a chronic heart condition. Mr. Imperatore was born in West New York, New Jersey, educated in the local schools, s
 MACIOCE--Frank M. Died at home in Stamford, CT, on June 8. He was born in NYC in 1912, graduated from City College in 1934, and served as Lt. Cmdr. in the US Navy during WWII. In 1943 he married Sylvia Morea. Frank designed and sold industrial water treatment systems in Chicago and later in
 MORTON--Jack, 94, of Vero Beach, Florida, died on June 28, 2004, at his home at John's Island after a long, full life. He was born June 6, 1910, in Newport, NC, and moved to Washington, DC, in 1931, where he lived before making Vero Beach his permanent home. Mr. Morton graduated from George
 OBI--Christopher. The Board of Directors of the Harlem School of the Arts mourns the untimely passing of Christopher Obi, the school's Chief Financial Officer. He was a dedicated professional and a man of consummate dignity.       
 RUVKUN--Sam. On June 26, 2004 at age 84 of Lymphoma, of Piedmont, CA. Predeceased by Dora, his beloved wife of 57 years. Loving father of his daughter Patti Ruvkun of Oakland, CA, his son Gary and his wife Natasha Ruvkun of Newton, MA; and son Rick and his wife Julie Ruvkun of New York, NY.
 WEST--Philip. Oboist; arranger; Professor Emeritus, Eastman School of Music; and artist/faculty, Aspen Music Festival. Died peacefully June 26th after a long illness. Survived by his beloved wife, violinist Carole Cowan; and, from his marriage to the late mezzo-soprano Jan DeGaetani, by dau
 ZYSMAN--David H. The entire Yeshiva University community and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary express profound sorrow over the passing of a devoted leader of Yeshiva University who also dedicated a lifetime of professional service to the building of the State of Isra
 David A. Brody, a Washington lobbyist for Jewish causes who was so well connected he became known to some as ''the 101st senator,'' died Saturday at a hospice in Washington. He was 88. The cause has not been determined, his wife, Beatrice, said. He had a series of strokes over the l
 Maj. Gen. George S. Patton, the son and namesake of the World War II armored commander and a veteran of combat in the Korean and Vietnam Wars, died on Sunday at his home in Hamilton, Mass. He was 80. General Patton, who retired from the Army in 1980, had been in poor health for year
 BABB--Phillip Stiling. Died on June 12th, 2004. He was 91, and passed away after a brief illness. He was the husband of the late Winifred Tate, and the father of three children. He is survived by two of his children: Sarah Babb Sexsmith and Christopher Tate Babb and five grandchildren. His 
 BAUER--Charles T. (Ted). We have lost a good friend, a giant of a man whose vision, strength and spirit we will sorely miss. Our sympathy to his family. Adele and Carl Frischling       
 CHRISTIANSON--Thomas P., 58, on June 28, 2004. Thomas leaves behind his wife Joan, sons Terence and Sean, daughter Carolyn, grandson Sean, Jr. and brother Robert. Visitation will be held on Thursday from 2-5 and 7-9pm at Thomas M. Quinn and Sons, 35-20 Broadway, Long Island City. Funeral ma
 HERMAN -- George. Died Monday, June 21, 2004, peacefully in Caracas, with his beloved Miriam at his side. A giant among us, he challenged oppression and set an example for all who love family and freedom. With business success in his two adopted countries, those privileged to have known him
 KETTANEH--C. Anthony. A private investor and international businessman, died of heart failure in Geneva, Switzerland on June 28, 2004 at the age of 67. He is survived by his wife Ruth, his mother Mary, his daughter Leigh and granddaughter Michele as well as his sisters Joyce Longworth and L
 MOSENKIS -- Matthew, 94, died June 28. Jewish educator with Board of Jewish Education of N.Y.C. Marshalliah, Herzliah Teachers Institute, Histadrut Ivrit, an editor of Shviley Hachinuch. Survived by his wife Rebekah, sons Robert Yehudah (Naida), Daniel (Sharon), grandchildren and great gran
 NEWBERRY--John J. Jr., 89, passed away at his home in Stowe, VT. on June 27, 2004. He was the son of the founder of J.J. Newberry Company. A service will be held in the Stowe Community Church on Thursday, July 1 at 3PM. For information contact the Stafford Funeral Home, Stowe.       
 NOWINSKI--Max, 83, of Monroe Township, NJ, formerly of New Rochelle, NY. A Mechanical Engineer in construction industry over forty years. Predeceased by his beloved Alice and his daughter Karen. Survived by his sons Ira, Robert and Charles. Brother of Jack and Sonia, & seven grandchildren. 
 NUNEZ--Michael. With deep sadness we mourn the loss of our colleague, partner and friend, Michael Nunez. Mike devoted his life to advocating for and serving his community. In his capacity of Executive Director of Puerto Rican Home Attendant Services, as President of South Bronx Board of Tra
 OPPENHEIMER--Arthur E. Died on June 27. Sgt. Major in WW II in the Coast Artillery. Worked for over 40 years in NBC's Press Relations Department. A gentleman to the end. We will miss him. Brigitte and Ronald Reis       
 ROTHMAN--Shelly J. We are saddened to report the death of our member, Shelly J. Rothman, President of Project Hope Emeritus. He was a person who always had a smile on his face, and a word of encouragement for those around him. His can-do attitude about anything attempted by our Labor and Bu
 ZYSMAN--David H. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of a dynamic founder of its campaign. He served with distinction as the organization's New York Director, Chicago Director and National Field Director and played a major role in building 
