 Donald Clayton Spencer, a pioneer of American mathematics who inspired a generation of younger mathematicians, died in Durango, Colo., on Dec. 23. He was 89. Together with his friend and collaborator Kunihiko Kodaira, he invented the modern theory of deformation of complex structure
 Ralph Sutton, a jazz pianist whose hard-driving but sometimes gently lyrical style was suggested by the title of one of his albums, ''Last of the Whorehouse Piano Players,'' died on Sunday in Denver. He was 79. Thomas Burns, a friend, said that Mr. Sutton, who lived in Bailey, Colo.
 Walter N. Read, a lawyer and former chairman of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, died on Dec. 22 at his home in Cinnaminson, N.J. He was 83. A native of Camden, Mr. Read graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1939 and from Pennsylvania Law School in 1941. He serve
 Dr. Thomas A. Sebeok, a pioneer in the science of signs and symbols, noted for challenging the theory that apes and chimpanzees could learn language to communicate with humans, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 81. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Dr. Jea
 Eugene H. Nickerson, the first Democrat to serve as Nassau County executive and later the Federal District Court judge who presided over the Abner Louima police brutality cases, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. He died of complications from ulcer surge
 Benjamin Welles, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times on three continents and the author of a painfully revealing biography of his father, Sumner Welles, a major foreign policy adviser to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 85. Mr. Well
 Casper Citron, a radio host who for 43 years broadcast interviews with the famous and powerful from the lobbies of Manhattan hotels, winning a reputation for erudition in no small measure because he actually read his guests' books, died in Manhattan on Tuesday at the age of 82. The 
 Harold Baumbach, a New York painter of dissonant color and irascible temperament whose career began before most Americans had ever heard of his friend Mark Rothko, died on Saturday in San Francisco, where he lived since the mid-1990's. He was 98. Mr. Baumbach, the son of an upholste
 Jan Kott, a Polish-American theater critic and expert on Shakespeare whose theories influenced some of the most innovative of modern theater directors, died on Dec. 22 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 87 and formerly lived in Stony Brook, N.Y. Mr. Kott was one of a handful of theater 
 Alfred Henry Heineken, who built an Amsterdam brewer into one of the world's biggest beer companies, died on Thursday at his home in the Dutch coastal town of Noordwijk. He was 78 and died of pneumonia. Mr. Heineken, who was known as Freddy, created the green bottle that helped Hein
 Moe Greengrass, who became Manhattan's ''Sturgeon King'' when his father, Barney Greengrass, left him the family's Upper West Side shrine to smoked fish, chopped liver and a good joke, died on Jan. 1 in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Gary said.
 Al Smith, the Chicago White Sox outfielder who became the hapless subject in one of baseball's most famous photographs when a fan spilled a cup of beer on him as Smith watched a home run sail over his head in the 1959 World Series, died Thursday at a hospital in Hammond, Ind. He was 73.    
 Samuel Mockbee, an architect and teacher whose commitment to bringing high-quality building design to the most impoverished residents of rural Alabama inspired other architects, died on Dec. 30 in Jackson, Miss. He was 57 and lived in Canton, Miss. The cause was complications from l
 Emile Renan, a versatile bass-baritone who was the first performer seen when the curtain rose on the first opening night at the New York City Opera 48 years ago, died on Dec. 8 in Englewood, N.J. He was 88 and had moved to Englewood from the East Side of Manhattan in September. The 
 Ian Hamilton, a British poet, editor, critic and biographer whose unauthorized biography of J. D. Salinger was barred by the courts even as bound galleys were being sent to reviewers, died on Dec. 27 in London. He was 63. The cause was not disclosed, said a spokesman for Between the
 Paul Byers, an early practitioner of visual anthropology, which he pioneered with Margaret Mead, died on Dec. 31 at his home in the East Village, Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. A native of Pittsburg, Kan., he attended the University of Chic
 Dr. Roger L. Shapiro, a research psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who provided fresh insights into how the complex dynamics of family interactions might contribute to psychological illness, died in Washington on Dec. 3. He was 75. The cause was complications of hip surgery, said a col
 Rear Adm. Chester W. Nimitz Jr., a veteran of World War II and son of the World War II naval commander in the Pacific, died last Wednesday along with his wife, Joan, at their home in Needham, Mass. He was 86, and she 89. The couple committed suicide because of deteriorating health, 
 Fred Taylor, the Hall of Fame basketball coach at Ohio State whose teams won the N.C.A.A. championship in 1960 and reached the title game the following two seasons, died Sunday at a nursing home in Hilliard, Ohio. He was 77. He had been in failing health since a brain aneurysm in 19
 Dr. Aleksandr M. Prokhorov, who shared a Nobel Prize in Physics for research that led to the development of lasers, died yesterday at his apartment in Moscow, Russian news agencies reported. He was 85. In the 1950's, Dr. Prokhorov and Dr. Nikolai G. Basov, physicists at the P. N. Le
 Dave Thomas, an orphan who went to work in restaurants at 12 and by dint of hard work, quality control and shrewd marketing made Wendy's the third-largest hamburger chain in the world, died yesterday. He was 69 and was known to millions as the folksy character who made a low-key personal pi
 The art collector and philanthropist Gustav Rau, who amassed one of the world's major private art collections, died in Stuttgart last Thursday. He was 79. He died suddenly in a hospital, his Zurich lawyer, Dietrich Stettler, said. He had been recovering from pneumonia contracted a f
 Igor Cassini, who as Cholly Knickerbocker was king of society gossip for the Hearst newspaper chain in the 1940's and 50's, then lost his job after he pleaded no contest to a charge that he represented the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo but without telling the government about it, died 
 Gyorgy Kepes, an influential designer, photographer, painter, educator, writer and aesthetic theorist, died on Dec. 29 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95. Mr. Kepes was best known as the founder of the Center for Advanced Visual Studies, an organization at the Massachusetts I
 Al LoBalbo, who in 11 seasons as a head coach made Fairleigh Dickinson University's basketball team a national leader on defense and as an assistant coach helped teach defense for Bobby Knight at Army and Lou Carnesecca at St. John's, died of pneumonia Saturday at a convalescent home in Mou
 Juan García Esquivel, a composer and arranger whose meticulously outlandish pop instrumentals from the 1950's and 60's sparked a lounge-music revival in the 90's, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Jiutepec, Morelos, Mexico. He was 83. Mr. Esquivel wrote television and movie scores, but
 Moe Foner, who played a major role in building New York City's largest union of health care workers and later was the labor movement's unofficial cultural impresario, staging art shows, plays and concerts, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. Mr. Foner was the longtim
 Wallace Gray, a professor emeritus of English and comparative literature and a favorite teacher for generations of Columbia College students, died on Dec. 21 in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Morningside Heights. He had a heart attack and died on the way to the hospital, the univ
 Walter H. Waggoner, a reporter, correspondent and editor at The New York Times for 41 years, died Wednesday in Chapel Hill, N.C. A former resident of Montclair, N.J., he was 84 and lived in Pittsboro, N.C. The cause was complications from a fall and surgery, his family said.        
 Carl Wolz, a teacher, scholar and dance festival organizer who sought to promote cooperation between Asian and Western dance communities, died on Jan. 2. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his brother, Lee Wolz. Although Mr. Wolz studied and taught 
 John W. Reynolds, the senior federal district judge in Wisconsin who oversaw the racial integration of the Milwaukee public schools in the 1970's, died on Sunday in a hospital in Milwaukee. He was 80 and lived in suburban Mequon. The cause was complications from heart disease, the c
 Cyrus R. Vance, who after two decades in public service was appointed secretary of state, and who then took the rare step of resigning from the nation's highest cabinet post on a matter of principle, died yesterday afternoon at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. He was 84. The 
 Dr. William R. Fair, a leading cancer surgeon whose experience as a cancer patient led him to become an advocate for the scientific study of complementary medicine, died on Jan. 3 in Sarasota, Fla. He was 66. The cause was complications from colon cancer, his family said. He lived i
 Pablo Antonio Cuadra, a leading poet and political voice of Nicaragua who for much of the 20th century was one of Central America's most important literary figures, died in Managua on Jan. 2. He was 89. Mr. Cuadra was known principally as a poet, but he was also an essayist, critic,
 Bruce Bliven Jr., a prolific writer of popular books and magazine articles on subjects as diverse as military campaigns and the history of the typewriter, died on Jan. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. Mr. Bliven, who wrote for The New Yorker for many years, put the story in wh
 Dr. Burton I. Edelson, a leader in satellite communications who helped start and oversee some of NASA's most popular science programs, died Jan. 6 in New York, where he was visiting family and friends. He was 75 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack, said his so
 Charles Segal, a Harvard classi cist who brought a modern literary  critic's approach to the study of  Greek and Latin poetry, died on Jan.  1 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65. The cause was cancer, the univer sity said. In a scholarly career spanning al most four decades, Prof
 Cyrus R. Vance, who after two decades in public service was appointed secretary of state, and who then took the rare step of resigning from the nation's highest cabinet post on a matter of principle, died Saturday afternoon at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. He was 84. The c
 Donald W. Johnston, a composer and arranger who scored a number of Broadway musicals, died Jan. 7 at a hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 57 and lived in Maplewood, N.J. The cause was cancer, said David E. LeVine, his lawyer. Mr. Johnston arranged the dance music for the origin
 Wang Ruoshui, one of China's most important liberal intellectuals -- who started his career as a disciple of Mao and ended it officially shunned by China's ruling Communist Party -- died Thursday in a hospital in Boston. He was 75. He died of lung cancer, the family said. He was spe
 Gerald Van der Kemp, the French art expert who masterminded the restoration of Louis XIV's palace at Versailles and saved the ''Mona Lisa'' from destruction by the Nazis, died Dec. 28 in Paris. He was 89. In the 35 years that he was in charge of Versailles, Mr. Van der Kemp devoted 
 Henry S. Reuss, for 28 years a leading liberal in Congress on issues from interest rates to pollution to Watergate to aid for New York City, died on Saturday in San Rafael, Calif. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Michael Reuss. Though brought 
 Dr. D. Eugene Strandness Jr., a surgeon whose research brought about significant advances in noninvasive vascular medicine, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Bellevue, Wash. He was 73. The cause was pulmonary failure, according to the University of Washington, where he was chief of the 
 Dr. Stephen B. Dobrow, who served for 40 years as the surrogate voice of the straphanger, demanding better mass transit, hectoring transit officials and using his encyclopedic knowledge of the subways to suggest better ways to fix them, died on Sunday at his home in Woodside, Queens. He was
 William A. Moses, a New York City real estate executive who was active in organizations representing small landlords, died on Jan. 3 in his home in Manhattan. He was 74. His health had been declining, his family said. He founded the Community Housing Improvement Program in 1
 Edwin McCammon Martin, who was assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs during the Cuban missile crisis in late 1962, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Martin was a career diplomat who attained
 George Rochester, an architect of particle physics known for discovering the kaon particle and regarded as one of Britain's most respected scientists, died on Dec. 26 in England. He was 93. Dr. Rochester made history in the 1940's when he discovered nuclear matter that was heavier t
 Keith Clark, the Army bugler whose imperfect rendition of taps at the funeral of President John F. Kennedy came to be seen as a perfect embodiment of national sorrow, died last Friday at a hospital in Fort Pierce, Fla. Mr. Clark, who lived in Port Charlotte, Fla., was 74. The cause 
 Michael A. Bilandic, who became mayor of Chicago after the death of Richard J. Daley, his mentor, only to see the Daley political machine sputter to a stop under his leadership, died on Tuesday in Chicago. He was 78. The cause was a heart rupture, said Dr. Dan Fintel of Northwestern
 Paul Jones Fannin, a two-term Republican senator, three-term governor and longtime pillar of Arizona conservatism, died on Sunday at his home in Phoenix. He was 94. When Mr. Fannin was first elected to a two-year term as governor in 1958, he made it his business to work with the Dem
 Peter G. Levathes, 90, a movie and television production executive in New York who led the 20th Century Fox studios in the early 1960's, died on Jan. 9 in Washington. As executive vice president in charge of worldwide production, he helped to recoup Fox's finances after the huge cos
 Samuel A. Tower, a writer and an editor for The New York Times and a stamp columnist there for 11 years, died Friday in New Haven. He was 87. He pursued his interest in stamps in two books, ''A Stamp Collector's History of the United States'' (Messner, 1975) and ''Makers of America:
 Arne H. W. Larsson, a Swedish engineer who in 1958 received the world's first implanted heart pacemaker, has died in Stockholm. He was 86. A variety of pacemakers triggered Mr. Larsson's last billion heart beats, making him a medical marvel and a pioneer in one of the great triumphs
 Camilo José Cela, winner of the 1989 Nobel Prize in Literature who was as well known in his native Spain for his sardonic humor and irascible personality as he was for his writing, died today at a Madrid hospital. He was 85. Mr. Cela made his reputation with his first -- and many s
 John William Locke, an artist's representative who helped transform the aesthetics of American illustration by introducing satiric European illustrators and cartoonists to  magazines, book publishers and advertising agencies, died on Jan. 3 in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 87. In 1
 A. A. Sommer Jr., an influential corporate and securities lawyer and former commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was a complication of a neurological ailment, his wife 
 Bobo Olson, a middleweight champion in the 1950's who was most remembered for his four losing bouts against Sugar Ray Robinson, died Wednesday at a hospital in Honolulu. He was 73. He had Alzheimer's disease for many years. In a professional boxing career that spanned two de
 Harding L. Lawrence, an airline executive whose innovations transformed Braniff International Airways, died on Wednesday at his residence in Mustique, St. Vincent, West Indies. He was 81 and maintained another residence in London. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Catherine Lebo
 Warren Steibel, producer and director of the television program ''Firing Line,'' whose host was the conservative commentator William F. Buckley Jr., died on Jan. 3 in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, said Frances Bronson, a longtime aide to Mr
 Bert Steinhauser, one of the pre-eminent art directors in the advertising industry's golden age of creativity in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Jan. 6 in Manhattan. Mr. Steinhauser, who lived in Chappaqua, N.Y., was 73. The cause was cancer, the family said. Mr. Steinhauser 
 John Grigg, a conservative journalist, biographer and polemicist whose role in British public discourse bore resemblances to that of William F. Buckley Jr. in the United States, died on Dec. 31 in London, where he lived. He was 77. Betraying in his thinking what he referred to as ''
 The Rev. Ernest Gordon of Princeton University died early Wednesday, some 60 years after he began to find his religious faith in the squalor, cruelty and death of a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp along the Kwai River. He was 85. Mr. Gordon, the retired dean of the chapel and universi
 Norman Kay, one of the world's great bridge players, died on Thursday at his home in Narberth, Pa. He was 74. The cause was an acute pulmonary embolism, said his wife, Judy. Mr. Kay had a good claim to be considered the best player who never won a world title. He came close 
 Terry Ehrich, for 33 years the publisher and editor in chief of Hemmings Motor News, the monthly magazine that calls itself ''the bible of the old-car hobby,'' died on Thursday at the Albany Medical Center. He was 60. Mr. Ehrich had been ill with lung cancer, which was diagnosed las
 Alfred Byrd Graf, a globe-trotting botanist, collector and photographer who compiled some of the world's most elaborate and expensive plant books, died Dec. 14 at his home in Düsseldorf, Germany. He was 100. He returned to his native country three years ago after living in the Unit
 Charles Ditmas, the honorary keeper of clocks at Harvard University, who believed that each antique clock had a personality as distinct as the one he so assiduously cultivated for himself -- with his jet-black dyed hair, Edwardian sartorial style and cherished black bag of ancient tools -- 
 Gordon J. Stanley, a pioneer in radio astronomy who discovered incredibly powerful sources of radio waves in outer space, died on Dec. 17 in Monterey, Calif. He was 80. The cause of death was complications from progressive supranuclear palsy, his family said. Born in Cambrid
 Joseph Laitin, a public affairs officer who served in the government for 18 years under five presidents, died on Saturday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87. Mr. Laitin operated in the quaint belief that journalists, the public and even federal officials might benefit from the d
 Alex Hannum, a Hall of Fame coach who persuaded Wilt Chamberlain, the greatest offensive threat of his time, to change his game and play defense, and who was the first coach to win championships in both the National and the American Basketball Associations, died last Friday in San Diego. He
 Dr. Herchel Smith, a chemist who developed a process to synthesize hormones for birth control pills and then gave millions of dollars he earned from the patents to support academic research, died on Dec. 20 at his home in West Chester, Pa. He was 76. Dr. Smith died in his sleep, his
 Jack Shea, who won two gold medals in speedskating at the 1932 Lake Placid Olympics and was the United States' oldest Winter Games gold medalist, died yesterday in Saranac Lake, N.Y., of injuries incurred Monday in an auto accident. He was 91. Shea's death came one month after his g
 Stanley Marcus, whose verve and flair in running the Neiman Marcus stores made him one of the world's best-known retailers, died yesterday at Zale Lipshy University Hospital in Dallas. He was 96. ''I have the simplest taste; I am always satisfied with the best,'' Mr. Marcus was know
 Everett Kircher, who founded a ski empire that offered technical advances on the country's slopes, died on Jan. 16 at a hospital in Petoskey, Mich. He was 85 and lived in Boyne Falls, Mich. The cause was complications from kidney dialysis, his family said. Mr. Kirche
 George P. Goold, a Yale classics professor who rejuvenated and debowdlerized the Loeb Classical Library, a collection of ancient Greek and Latin texts published with English translations, died on Dec. 5 in Holyoke, Mass. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his wife, Filippa Forder Gool
 Ikko Tanaka, the Japanese graphic designer whose fusion of Japanese tradition and the International Style contributed a modern sensibility to Japanese poster and publication design, died on Jan. 11 in Tokyo, where he lived. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, said Hiroko Sakomu
 John Arthur Love, a former Republican governor of Colorado and energy czar in the Nixon administration, died on Monday. He was 85 and lived in Denver. Mr. Love had only limited political experience when he was elected to the first of three terms as governor in 1963. He defeated an i
 Norman Atkins, a baritone whose broad range included opera, musical theater and Jewish liturgical music, died on Jan. 13 in Hackensack, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Mahwah, N.J. He died of complications after heart surgery, said his daughter, Andrea Atkins Hessekiel. Mr. Atki
 Robert Nozick, the intellectually nimble Harvard philosopher whose critique of America's social welfare system 25 years ago continues to define the debate between conservatives and liberals, died yesterday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 63. He died of complications from stomach cancer, 
 Igor Kipnis, the virtuoso harpsichordist whose busy concert recording career made him the instrument's most ardent cheerleader,  died on Wednesday at his Connecticut home. He was 71. He had been suffering from cancer, according to the agency that managed his career, Marilyn Gilbert 
 Michael Young, a sociologist and reformer who was a chief architect of Britain's postwar welfare state, died Jan. 14 at his home in London. He was 86. He had been ill with cancer for some time, The Associated Press reported. Although he never held elective office, Mr. Young 
 Pierre Bourdieu, a leading French sociologist and maverick intellectual who emerged as a public figure here in the 1990's by championing the antiglobalization movement and other antiestablishment causes, died in a Paris hospital on Wednesday. He was 71. The cause was cancer, friends
 AS a physician at the Human Rights Foundation here, Dr. Onder Ozkalipci tends to the handiwork of sadists. He talks of the most popular methods of torturers as another doctor might talk of the perils of cholesterol. There's ''falanga,'' the beating of the soles of the feet, and ''su
 Bertalan de Nemethy, an elegant, one-time Hungarian cavalry captain who coached the United States Equestrian Team to Olympic and other international success for a quarter century, died Jan. 16 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90 and had contracted pneumonia after being hospitalized the 
 John H. D'Arms, the president of the American Council of Learned Societies, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 67 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was brain cancer, his family said. Dr. D'Arms was a classicist whose work focused on the history of ancient 
 Ron Taylor, who created the voice of Audrey II, the malicious man-eating plant in the cult musical ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' as well as writing and starring in the sleeper hit ''It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues'' on Broadway, died on Jan. 15 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 49. Th
 Richard Brown Baker, a collector of contemporary art whose keen eye and largess benefited both the Yale University Art Gallery and the Museum of Art at the Rhode Island School of Design, died on Tuesday in Shelburne, Vt. He was 89 and lived in Shelburne. Mr. Baker was a tall, reserv
 James L. Usry, who in 1984 became the first black man to be elected Atlantic City's mayor but was defeated six years later in the middle of a municipal corruption scandal, died Friday at a nursing home in Galloway Township, N.J. He was 79 and had been suffering from diabetes and can
 John Buscema, a comic book artist known for his robust renditions of characters like the Silver Surfer and Conan the Barbarian, died on Jan. 10. He was 74 and lived in Port Jefferson, N.Y. The cause was stomach cancer, said his son, John Buscema Jr. Mr. Buscema's most popula
 Dr. Kenneth J. Ryan, a Harvard obstetrician who helped the nation grapple with thorny ethical issues like fetal tissue research, died on Jan. 5 at his home in Weston, Mass.  He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Ryan made a name for himself early in h
 Michel Poniatowski, a former French interior minister who helped Valéry Giscard d'Estaing become president in 1974 but whose career was plunged into controversy by a murder scandal and increasingly reactionary views, died on Jan. 15 in his home in Opio, Alpes-Maritimes, in southeastern Fra
 John Jackson, a master of the Piedmont tradition of blues, country and ragtime, died on Jan. 20 at his home in Fairfax, Va. He was 77. The cause was kidney failure, but he had also suffered from lung and liver cancer, said his manager, Trish Byerly. In a honey-cured Virginia
 Andrew W. Cooper, a civil rights advocate and publisher of The City Sun newspaper, a defunct weekly once on the must-read list of many black New Yorkers, died in Brooklyn on Monday. He was 74 years old. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Cooper left a permanent imp
 Bishop John R. McGann, who led the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre for more than 20 years, died yesterday at Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre. He was 77 and had been hospitalized for the past week and a half, said Joanne Novarro, a spokeswoman for the diocese. Bis
 Eugene M. Ezersky, an expert on outdoor and environmental education who was involved in programs to foster gardening and greenery in New York City, died on Jan. 18 at a hospital in Westchester County. He was 75 and lived in Roslyn, N.Y. He had a long illness, his family said.       
 Michael P. Hammond, a composer and music expert who was confirmed as the new chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts last month, died yesterday at his temporary residence in Washington. He was 69. Mr. Hammond died of what appeared to be natural causes, said Mark Weinberg, th
 Bishop John R. McGann, who led the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre, N.Y., for more than 20 years, died yesterday in Rockville Centre. He was 77. He had been hospitalized at Mercy Medical Center for the last week and a half. He died of aplastic anemia, said Joanne Novarro,
 Joshua L. Miner, a former boarding school dean who introduced the rugged learning experiences of Outward Bound to the United States, died Tuesday at his home in Andover, Mass. He was 81. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Miner encountered the Outward Bound 
