 Budd Boetticher, who directed a series of stark, low-budget westerns regarded by film scholars as classics of the genre, died on Thursday at his home in Ramona, Calif. He was 85. In the austere, suspenseful opening of ''Comanche Station'' (1960), the last of seven westerns starring 
 George Harrison, the Beatles' lead guitarist and the youngster of the group, who composed some of their most venerated songs, ranging from the intentionally prosaic to the hauntingly serene, died on Thursday at a friend's home in Los Angeles. He was 58. The cause was cancer, which h
 Dr. J. Herbert Fill, a psychiatrist who was New York City's commissioner of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services for part of the Lindsay administration, died on Sunday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 77 and had lived on the Upper East Side. The cause of d
 John Knowles, whose coming-of-age novel ''A Separate Peace'' became required reading for generations of high school students, died on Thursday at a convalescent home in a suburb of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 75. Mr. Knowles died after a short illness, said his lawyer, Kenneth Hart
 CIRCIELLO-Gino A. Died at home on November 29, 2001. He was creator, founder and owner since 1945 of Gino's Restaurant with Guy Avventuriero and Emilio Torre, 780 Lexington Avenue, New York City until his retirement. Beloved husband of Nini Girdano Circiello. Beloved brother of Yolanda Gent
 GOTTESMAN-Harold A. We mourn the passing of Harold A. Gottesman, a trustee from the West Point Jewish Chapel Fund for many years. He was instrumental in building the Jewish Chapel at West Point and in supporting the Jewish Cadet program. His wise counsel and support will be sorely missed. W
 HARWOOD-Harry. On November 28, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Alice. Loving father of Pamela and Leslie. Devoted brother of Maurice, Norma and Hilda. Dear uncle and good friend to many. He is enjoying eternity with his loving wife Alice. Service Sunday, 9:30AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th S
 MOORE-James Edward, 70. A New York commodities trader who played a major role in emergency medical services in his community and the state, died Wednesday at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, New York City. Mr. Moore was a commodities futures trader with the New York Commodities Exchan
 MURPHY-Peter, 61. An advertising copywriter who created numerous award winning campaigns for Dr Pepper, Bartles and James, Alamo Rent A Car and American Airlines, died Thursday at his home in Bridgehampton, NY. The cause was colon cancer. His quick wit and unique writing made him well known
 VITOLO-Ralph Francis, 59. Of Lido Beach, NY, died on November 17 in Pattaya, Thailand. Cause of death was heart failure. He is survived by Theresa Vitolo, mother Frances of Fort Lauderdale, FL, sister Ann Carol Caponi of Greenwich Village, NY and niece Meeso and nephew Jared. Mr. Vitolo had
 WEINSTEIN - Edward G., 75, Thursday, November 29th. Beloved husband for 51 years of Barbara, devoted father of Kenneth (Elizabeth), Ellen Adnopoz (Stephen) and the late Peter. Cherished grandfather of Matthew, Timothy, Taylor, Kara, Dana and Hayley. Loving brother of Paul J. Weinstein and b
 ZWICK-Avraham, 81. Our Dolfi, beloved brother, brother-in-law, uncle and great-uncle, died on November 28, 2001, at his home in Tivon, Israel. Dolfi was a good man, a loving and generous person, who served his country as a major in the IDF during the War of Independence, and as General Mana
 AARON-Stanley. Of Boca Raton, FL., and Cliffside Park, NJ died Sunday, November 25 of heart failure. A veteran of World War II, Mr. Aaron was a principal in the advertising firm Franklin Spier, Inc. from which he retired in 1982. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Doris, his children J
 BISCEGLIA-Victor R., Colonel, USMC Ret. On November 23, 2001. Beloved husband of Audrey, devoted father of Victor J., John, Dalis, Michael, Nicholas and nine grandchildren. 1940 graduate of Columbia University commanded a U.S. Guerilla unit in China during W.W. II. Commander of 8th Marine R
 CIRCIELLO-Gino A. Died at home on November 29, 2001. He was creator, founder and owner since 1945 of Gino's Restaurant with Guy Avventuriero and Emilio Torre, 780 Lexington Avenue, New York City until his retirement. Beloved husband of Nini Girdano Circiello. Beloved brother of Yolanda Gent
 DE LA CRUZ-Peter. Passed away on November 23, 2001. He has joined his Mother, Dona Polita, on that eternal journey. Although his later years were filled with suffering, God blessed him with a special person, who shared love and friendship, as well as, comfort and support. Jo Brewer is such 
 DIAMOND-Lawrence. Of Parkchester, died peacefully November 30th. Left his loving wife of 64 years, Beatrice, and many adoring nieces and nephews.       
 HARWOOD-Harry. On November 28, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Alice. Loving father of Pamela and Leslie. Devoted brother of Maurice, Norma and Hilda. Dear uncle and good friend to many. He is enjoying eternity with his loving wife Alice. Service Sunday, 9:30AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th S
 MASHBERG-Andrew. On November 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Dr. Marcia Rosen. Loving father of Amy, Thomas and stepson Paul. Cherished grandfather of Evan, Ella and Anne. Devoted brother of Edward, Leda and Blossom. A forceful man who knew how to love. A dedicated reader who knew how to think
 MATZNER-Yaacov. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem are deeply saddened by the tragic and sudden loss of Professor Yaacov Matzner, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at The Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical Center in Jerusalem. A distinguished phys
 McANENY-Ernest J. Died peacefully at home on November 2, 2001, at 94 years of age. He was son of the late Marjorie and George McAneny, President of the Borough of Manhattan (1910-1913) and Executive Manager of the New York Times (1916-1921). His maternal grandparents were the promient physi
 MORRISON-Ian A. Age 77, died November 16, in Bradenton, FL. Former Dean of Men, Wagner College, Staten Island, NY. Retired CEO and President of GreerWoodycrest Children's Services, Millbrook, NY. World War II veteran, ex-POW. Survived by wife Naida, son Craig W. of Sarasota, FL, daughter Sh
 NEWMAN-Robert D. Of San Diego, CA on November 29, 2001, age 91. Bob was the son of Dr. Serenus L. and Agusta Newman, and had a sister and three brothers. A 1930 graduate of the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, he served in World War II as a U.S. Army Captain in the 66th Infantry
 O'DONNELL-Robert L. On November 24, 2001 at age 74. Beloved husband of Barbara J. Ruby O'Donnell and loving father of Kevin O'Donnell and father-in-law of Ann. Grandfather of Elizabeth O'Donnell. Interment is private. Contributions in his memory may be made to City Meals on Wheels, 355 Lexi
 REDMOND-Eugene V. On November 30, 2001. Loving husband of June. Devoted father of Randi and son-in-law Steven Oster. Proud grandfather of Gary and Matthew. He was a constant source of support and inspiration to all. Graveside service and interment at Congregation Beth-El Cemetery, Fairfield
 ROTHSTEIN-Nathaniel, 89. On November 29 at the Bethel Health Care Center, formerly of Southbury, CT and Harrison, New York. Beloved husband of Jane Rothstein of Stamford, CT, cherished father of Amy (Peter Salerno) and Julie Ruff (Leslie), adored grandfather of Daniel and Emily Ruff, devote
 STEIN-KOHLER-Arthur. On December 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Maxine Stein-Kohler (nee Fertig). Dearest brother of Alex Steinkoler and brother-in-law of Ronnie. Uncle of Manya, Danny and Jeremy. He will be missed by his many friends. Donations will be gratefully accepted by the Lustgarten Fo
 TOLEDANO-Joseph L. On November 30th, 2001. Passed away at home in Paris, France. Beloved husband of the late Estrella. Devoted father of Edward (Karla) and Sylviane Levy (Gerard). Cherished grandfather, great-grandfather, brother and uncle. He will be lovingly remembered.       
 VITOLO-Ralph Francis, 59. Of Lido Beach, NY, died on November 17 in Pattaya, Thailand. Cause of death was heart failure. He is survived by Theresa Vitolo, mother Frances of Fort Lauderdale, FL, sister Ann Carol Caponi of Greenwich Village, NY and niece Meeso and nephew Jared. Mr. Vitolo had
 Robert Helps, an American composer and concert pianist whose own works ranged freely through the lexicon of contemporary styles and techniques, died last Saturday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 73. Scott Kluksdah, a cellist on the faculty of the University of South Florida, where
 Arthur F. Kelly, chief executive of Western Airlines in the 1970's, died on Nov. 20 in Gig Harbor, Wash. He was 88 and lived in Gig Harbor. A skilled marketer, he became chairman of Western, the Los Angeles-based airline, in 1976, when it faced tough competition. In the late
 Michael Iovenko, a Wall Street lawyer and former New York State banking official who was president of the Legal Aid Society during a bitter 1994 labor confrontation between its staff lawyers and the Giuliani administration, died in Manhattan on Saturday. He was 71. Mr. Iovenko had a
 Mohammed Ibrahim Kamel, who resigned as Egypt's foreign minister in 1978 in protest against the Camp David peace accords with Israel, predicting accurately that they would isolate Egypt in the Arab world without resolving the Palestinian question, died on Nov. 22 in Cairo, the Foreign Minis
 ALTMAN-Edith. Ramot Shapira expresses their condolences to David Altman, Officer and Trustee of Ramot Shapira, on the loss of his beloved wife Edith and to Louise Stern, Mel and Alan Altman on the loss of their dear mother. May they all be granted an extra measure of inner-strength. Shelley
 BUCHNER-Marvin. At age 72. Loving husband of Phyllis. Adored father of Alan and Karen Buchner and Caryn and Tim Coville. Cherished grandfather of Jason, Ryan, Brian and Robbie. Devoted brother of Bunny, Doris, Alvin, Marty and the late Bernie. Dear uncle and friend. Respected attorney who l
 DRACHMAN-Israel. Age 98. Died December 1, 2001, in NYC. Devoted husband of the late Mildred Terris Drachman. Beloved father and father-in-law of Harriett Goldberg and Janet and William M. Ray. Dearest grandfather of Karin Goldberg, Jonathan and Rachel Goldberg, Susannah Ray and Matthew Ray.
 LUBITZ-Norman. On November 27, 2001, after a long illness. Beloved father of Amy and Jeffrey. Grandfather of Joshua, Brandon, Zachary and Noah. His love and wisdom will be missed.       
 ROBBINS-Mac, was a man adored by all for his strength and kindness. He will always be remembered by each of us because of his very special way of always being there when we needed him. We will miss you, ''Mackie''. The Robbins Family       
 STEIN-KOHLER-Arthur. On December 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Maxine Stein-Kohler (nee Fertig). Dearest brother of Alex Steinkoler and brother-in-law of Ronnie. Uncle of Manya, Danny and Jeremy. He will be missed by his many friends. Donations will be gratefully accepted by the Lustgarten Fo
 TOLEDANO-Joseph L. On November 30th, 2001. Passed away at home in Paris, France. Beloved husband of the late Estrella. Devoted father of Edward (Karla) and Sylviane Levy (Gerard). Cherished grandfather, great-grandfather, brother and uncle. He will be lovingly remembered       
 Viktor Astafyev, a writer who became famous for his stark novels about the Soviet Union's costly victory in the Second World War and grim narratives about prison camps and the alcoholism and despair of provincial Russian life, died on Thursday at home in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia. He was 77.    
 Joel Carlson, a white South African lawyer who used spectacular political trials to battle apartheid and expose its practices of secret detention and torture, died on Nov. 25 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 75. Mr. Carlson had been suffering from leukemi
 John William Collins, the top American chess teacher of the 20th century, whose students included Bobby Fischer, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived in New York City. Known to all as Jack Collins, his teaching career spanned almost seven decades. Many top American playe
 BARUCH-Rabbi Nathan. We mourn the passing of our beloved husband, father and grandfather. He established the VAAD, Hatzala Organization in Germany. He worked tirelessly saving Holocaust survivors and helping them start a new life. His legendary efforts on behalf of Torah continued for decad
 BRAUNSCHWEIGER-Richard of Katonah, NY, age 47 on December 2, 2001, after a courageous battle with Cancer. Vice President of Credit Agricole Indosuez Chevreux Securities. Beloved husband of Lorna (Lenley). Loving father of Matthew, Julie and Dana. Cherished son of Gretchen and Herbert Brauns
 BRODIE-David. A former steamship executive and a captain attached to The Office of Strategic Services during World War II, died after a long illness on November 24, 2001. He was 81 years old and a graduate of Colby College. Mr. Brodie was a friend to many, and a devoted member of ''The Grea
 CHANG-David P.C., died, Friday, November 30, 2001 at Cornell Weill Medical Center of complications from heart surgery. He is the husband of Lorna Mickle Chang, father of Pamela, Christopher, David, and Jennifer, sister of Yi An Rosita Chou. David and Lorna live in East Barnard, VT.       
 COLLINS-John W. (Jack). On December 2, 2001. In 1991 he was voted into the United States Chess Federation Hall of Fame and, a couple of years later, they awarded him the distinction of ''Chess Teacher of the Century.'' Among his students were Robert (Bobby) Fischer, Robert Byrne, William Lo
 IOVENKO-Michael. Beloved husband of Nancy. Loving father of Christopher and William and stepfather of Barry. Dear brother of Christina Howe. Devoted uncle of Celia, Aleta and Fiona. Grandfather of Sadie and Michael. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Legal Aid Society or the B
 LANDAU-Sam. Passed away December 1, 2001. He was the devoted husband of Caroline Landau. Beloved father of Dr. Karen Landau and loving grandfather of Lily Simone Landau. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The Children's Museum of NYC.       
 LEUNG-Ching H., 66, of Mahwah, NJ died suddenly of heart complications on December 1, 2001. Beloved husband of almost 36 years to Clara (Wong). Loving father of Peter of Singpore, Joseph of NYC and Thomas of Boston. Devoted brother of Ching Por Leung, Ching Cham Leung, Ching Sang Leung, Chi
 LUXENBERG-Herbert. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) deeply mourn the loss of Herbert Luxenberg of Cleveland, a generous and dedicated leader of the ATS. Chair and immediate past president of the Cleveland Chapter, Herbert, along with his wife Mickey, demo
 PALAY-Irving ''Penny''. Died on December 3, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife Arlene Hochstat, his daughter Daryn Deodato-Almeida, and stepsons Michael and Jon Hochstat. ''Poppy'' of Samantha and Joshua Hochstat. Services Wednesday, December 5 at 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', West 76th Str
 PASHCOW-Bernard. At age 91 after a lenghthy illness. He is survived by his beloved wife of 60 years Hannah (nee Taffet); two daughters, Dr. Kay Cowan (Richard) and Mrs. Ronnie Getz (Joseph); four grandsons, Dr. Gregory Cowan (Carol), Andrew Cowan (Suzanne), Lonny Cowan, Allan Barrie, and th
 RIEGNER-Gerhart, Dr. The American Jewish Committee mourns the death of Dr. Gerhart M. Riegner, the former General Secretary of the World Jewish Congress. He is best remembered for his historic 1942 cablegram from Geneva that first alerted American religious and political leaders to the syst
 RIVEL-Robert B., 80. Of Pittsfield, MA, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, Westfield, NJ and Saddle River, NJ died November 30, 2001. Executive Vice President of Chase Manhattan Bank (1946-72), General Partner Lazard Freres & Co. (1972-74), CEO of Union Dime Savings Bank (1975-81), CEO of Private Ex
 ROSENBERG-Bernard. Temple Beth Sholom, of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, Bernard Rosenberg. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Rita, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 STROMBERG-Sidney. A man of intelligence, complexity, passion & warmth, passed away November 30, 2001. Loved by his children Rena and Ayton Stromberg, Carla Sadoff, Harry Sadoff, Jeffrey Sadoff; his grandchildren Dafna Kent, Ronen Stromberg, Ariel Stromberg, and many friends. Contributions i
 WALLER-Richard J. Age 66, of Hillsdale, NJ, on December 2, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife Shirley E., loving children David S. and Susan L. Waller, three cherished grandchildren Justin, Alex and Brett. Services are today at 12 Noon at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Route 4 East, 
 Gerhart Riegner, the World Jewish Congress official who was the first to warn an incredulous world that Nazi Germany had formally decided at the highest levels to annihilate Europe's Jews, died on Monday in Geneva. He was 90. The cable he sent in August 1942 -- which was passed on t
 Gino A. Circiello, a restaurateur who shunned credit cards, reservations and advertising but built a Manhattan institution on the strength of homey Italian cooking and 314 exuberantly leaping zebras on tomato-red wallpaper, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Gino, h
 BRAUNSCHWEIGER-Richard of Katonah, NY, age 47 on December 2, 2001, after a courageous battle with Cancer. Vice President of Credit Agricole Indosuez Chevreux Securities. Beloved husband of Lorna (Lenley). Loving father of Matthew, Julie and Dana. Cherished son of Gretchen and Herbert Brauns
 BUNCHER-Jack. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Jack Buncher. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Joanne, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary    
 CHERNEY-Paul, President and founder of Cinefot International, a photographic import-export management business until his retirement in 1987, died Decemer 3, 2001. He was 94. Born in Budapest, Hungary, he grew up in Vienna, and came to the United States in 1929. A major in the United States 
 COLLINS-John W. (Jack). On December 2, 2001. In 1991 he was voted into the United States Chess Federation Hall of Fame and, a couple of years later, they awarded him the distinction of ''Chess Teacher of the Century.'' Among his students were Robert (Bobby) Fischer, Robert Byrne, William Lo
 COUGHLIN-Robert Lawrence, Jr. The Honorable R. Lawrence Coughlin, Jr., 72, died Friday, November 30, 2001 at his Tidewater home in Mathews, Virginia. He is survived by his wife, Susan MacGregor Coughlin, four children, and five grandchildren. Congressman Coughlin was elected in 1968 to repr
 DIBBLE-Douglas William. Suddenly on Nov. 30, 2001. Art Director/Professor at Hunter College. Loving husband of Kirsten Westphal. Loving father of Wallace Evelyn Dibble. Beloved son of William and Norma Dibble. Dear brother of Darcy Clark and Amy Stumph. A Memorial Service and Reception will
 GAINSBORG-Sumner D. Entered into rest Dec. 4; of New York City, formerly of Boston, MA. Devoted husband of Susan Marie (Larivee). Beloved father of Jeffrey Benjamin Gainsborg and his wife Heidi Galloway of Lincolntown, NC, Pamela Beth DeLuca and her husband Paul Scott DeLuca of Winchester, 
 GOTTLIEB-Meyer L. Outstanding biology teacher, he inspired many students to go into medicine and research. Died November 27 at age 90. For info, 212-362-6600.       
 IOVENKO-Michael. The Board of Directors, Executive Director, staff, children and families of Berkshire Farm Center and Services for Youth express our deepest sorrow on the passing of Michael Iovenko. He was a vital and generous member of our Board of Directors for 32 years. He held the posi
 LANDAU-Sam. Passed away December 1, 2001. He was the devoted husband of Caroline Landau. Beloved father of Dr. Karen Landau and loving grandfather of Lily Simone Landau. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The Children's Museum of NYC.       
 LEWIS-Arthur L. Passed away on November 28, 2001 after a brief illness. He was 76 years old. Arthur is survived by his wife of 53 years, Joan Lewis, two daughters, Cathy Lewis of Larchmont, NY and Jane Horsfall of Freeport, Maine, and four grandchildren. He was a husband, father and grandfa
 MULLER-Silvio. Passed away at his home in Great Neck on December 3, 2001. He is survived by his beloved wife, Ana, adoring children, Alex and Sonia, and his mother, Sara. Graveside services to be held at the Beth Moses Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY on Wednesday, December 5, at 11 AM. MU
 RICHNER-George A. Executive recruiter, retailer, institutional food executive and a longtime resident of Summit, NJ, died December 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Beulah (Bee) May Young Richner. Father of Trina Richner Lawson of NYC. Brother of William Eugene Richner of Homosassa, FL. Uncle of 
 RIEGNER-Gerhart. We mourn and honor the valiant courier who helped inform the world of the systematic Nazi attempt to murder the Jews of Europe, and who became a postwar champion of human rights, an elder statesman of interfaith dialogue. His voice will be sorely missed. Seymour D. Reich, C
 RIZZO-Dr. Peter-Cyrus II, ''Pop,'' age 98 of Bronxville on December 3, 2001. Loving husband of the late Rose Dignan Rizzo, proud father of Thomas Dignan Rizzo, M.D. and the late Peter-Cyrus Rizzo III, M.D. Grandfather of Thomas, Jr., Peter, James, Peter-Cyrus IV, Marguerite Buttrick, Andrea
 SCULLY-Kevin M., 48. Died on December 4, 2001 at his residence in Bronxville, NY. Husband of Mimi O'Connell Scully. Son of Joan Cunningham Scully and the late Vincent. Father of Caitlin and Micaela Scully, Kelly and Christian O'Connell. Brother of Vincent J. Scully, Jr., twin brother Keith 
 SESKIS-Alan C. December 4, 2001, beloved husband of Barbara (nee Blickman), devoted father of Terry and Scott, loving brother of Barbara Harris, fond uncle of special nieces and nephews. A veteran of The U.S. Army serving in the Pacific during World War II, a graduate of The Fieldston Schoo
 SULLIVAN-Thomas A. Peacefully on December 2, 2001 at age 61. Loving father of Thomas A. Sullivan, Jr., Meghan Sullivan Nelson and their spouses Hester Old Sullivan & Andrew H. Nelson. Adoring grandfather of Parker and Mollie. Dear brother of Daniel Sullivan and Mary Pat Sullivan Pace. Frien
 WRAY-Michael J. On Dec. 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Catherine Meehan Wray. Loving brother of Patricia Lovelace. Devoted uncle of Karen, Diane & Brad. Member of the New York Stock Exchange for over 25 years. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him and he will always remain in 
 Spencer Holst, a writer of fables and a fixture of the downtown Manhattan avant-garde scene for 30 years, died on Nov. 23 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. He had been suffering from emphysema and apparently died of a stroke, said George Quasha, a co-owner of Statio
 Gerhard Stoltenberg, who reunified the armies of Germany after the Berlin Wall fell, died of cancer on Nov. 23 in Bad Godesberg, Germany. He was 73. Mr. Stoltenberg, a politician whose precocious rise through the ranks led him to the highest levels of power, wasted little time joini
 Gregoire C. R. B. MacArthur, a member of one of America's wealthiest families and a supporter of human rights and liberal causes, died Nov. 18 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. MacArthur came to pub
 BUNCHER-Jack. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our friend and mentor, Jack Buncher. His vision and energy continue to enrich the lives of young Jewish leaders and assure the future of Jewish life in com
 KESSLER-Moe. Lifelong NYC resident as well as the founder, president and CEO of Outwater Plastics Industries and Architectural Products by Outwater, died on December 4th in Manhattan. Best remembered for his generosity and contributions that he has made to the lives of everyone who knew him
 RESNICK-Israel. Age 86. At home on December 5, 2001. Beloved husband for 50 years of the late Sadie (nee Pasiornick). Cherished father of Carole Crystal, Arthur Resnick and the late Robert Resnick. Father-in-law of Richard P. Crystal. Adored grandfather of Lara and Jessica Crystal. Devoted 
 SCULLY-Kevin M., 48. Died on December 4, 2001 at his residence in Bronxville, NY. Husband of Mimi O'Connell Scully. Son of Joan Cunningham Scully and the late Vincent. Father of Caitlin and Micaela Scully, Kelly and Christian O'Connell. Brother of Vincent J. Scully, Jr., twin brother Keith 
 SESKIS-Alan C. December 4, 2001, beloved husband of Barbara (nee Blickman), devoted father of Terry and Scott, loving brother of Barbara Harris, fond uncle of special nieces and nephews. A veteran of The U.S. Army serving in the Pacific during World War II, a graduate of The Fieldston Schoo
 SILVERSTONE-Sidney M., Dr., on December 4 at age 93. Beloved father of Harris, Alan, and David and their wives Ruth, Janice, andBarbara. Beloved grandfather of Robert and Heidi, Aron Silverstone and Tai-ping Sun, Nancy, Murray, Jayme Silverstone and Fred Heiberger, Mark, Scott, Leonard Dunn
 SULLIVAN-Thomas A. The Board and staff of Lenox Hill Neighborhood House mourn the untimely death of our friend and benefactor. His death is a loss to all of us who had contact with this vital, erudite and compassionate man. Recipient of our 2001 Rohatyn Community Service Award, he embodied 
 WRAY-Michael J. On Dec. 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Catherine Meehan Wray. Loving brother of Patricia Lovelace. Devoted uncle of Karen, Diane & Brad. Member of the New York Stock Exchange for over 25 years. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him and he will always remain in 
 William Jovanovich, who presided over Harcourt, Brace Jovanovich for 36 years and transformed the highbrow literary house into one of the nation's leading textbook publishers, died on Tuesday at his home in San Diego. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack after a long illness, sai
 George T. Scharffenberger, a builder and dismantler of one of the most prominent business conglomerates, died on Nov. 10 at his home in Rolling Hills, Calif., of lung cancer. He was 82. Mr. Scharffenberger joined City Investing Company in 1966 when it was a real estate holding compa
 Dr. Joe Hin Tjio, the research biologist who produced the first correct count of the chromosomes in human cells, died Nov. 27 in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 82. Dr. Tjio (pronounced CHEE-oh) accomplished that feat in 1956 as a visiting scientist at the University of Lund, Sweden. His s
 HENKIND-Sol. On December 5, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn. Loving father of Lewis and Ellie. Cherished and devoted grandfather of Hilary, Steven, Shimon, Adam, Rain and Heidi. Services today, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. He lived a righteous and generou
 LEWIS-Arthur L. Passed away on November 28, 2001 after a brief illness. He was 76 years old. Arthur is survived by his wife of 53 years, Joan Lewis, two daughters, Cathy Lewis of Larchmont, NY and Jane Horsfall of Freeport, Maine, and four grandchildren. He was a husband, father and grandfa
 MacARTHUR-Greg. The Center for Media Education and the Center for Digital Democracy mourn the passing of our friend and supporter. Greg was an accomplished journalist, filmmaker, activist, and philanthropist. Through his efforts, many critical public interest issues were effectively address
 ROTHSTEIN-David, 54. On December 6, 2001, of Gunnison and Denver, Colorado, San Francisco, California and Baldwin, New York. A third generation New Yorker. Father of Shay Michelle, son of the late George and surviving Elaine. Former husband of Denny and Suzan. Brother of Michael and Babs, u
 SESKIS-Alan C. December 4, 2001, beloved husband of Barbara (nee Blickman), devoted father of Terry and Scott, loving brother of Barbara Harris, fond uncle of special nieces and nephews. A veteran of The U.S. Army serving in the Pacific during World War II, a graduate of The Fieldston Schoo
 SILVERSTONE-Sidney M., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. Dr. Silverstone served Mount Sinai for over sixty years as a clinician and teacher and has served humanity as a world renowned radiation oncologis
 SULLIVAN-Thomas A. Peacefully on December 2, 2001 at age 61. Loving father of Thomas A. Sullivan, Jr., Meghan Sullivan Nelson and their spouses Hester Old Sullivan & Andrew H. Nelson. Adoring grandfather of Parker and Mollie. Dear brother of Daniel Sullivan and Mary Pat Sullivan Pace. Frien
 SUTTER-Sol, 91. Of Lenox, MA. Formerly of Great Neck, NY. Died December 6, 2001. He was predeceased by his beloved wife, Pearl. He is survived by his 3 children, Ellen, David and Richard and six grandchildren. He will be dearly missed by all who knew and loved him. Services will be held Fri
 WAKS-Meyer. Of Delray Beach, FL, on November 30, 2001 at age 89. He is survived by sons, David and Leonard, and grandchildren, Mark Waks, Ruth Bennett, Allison Teger, Michael Teger and Sjoma Fadeev. A longtime teacher and principal in the NYC schools, he retired in 1975. A memorial service 
 Bill Reid, a Royal Air Force pilot in World War II who received the Victoria Cross, Britain's highest award for valor, for completing a bombing mission over Germany in a crippled plane after he was severely wounded and his navigator killed, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Crieff, Scotland. H
 George Hansen, who designed a widely used wall-mounted swing-arm lamp, died on Tuesday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 92. Mr. Hansen did not originate the idea of the swing-arm wall-mounted lamp, but his unobtrusive version, called the Hansen lamp, which he introduced in the 1
 ANGEL-Murray. Of Brooklyn, NY, died on December 5, 2001. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father and father-in-law to Hal and Joanne and Lloyd and Joanie. Dear brother and brother-in-law to Sam and Madlen Ezratty. Adored grandfather to Kirsen, Morgan and Darryl. He was ''Prince Amongst Me
 BERTELSMANN-Heinz O. The Bard College community deeply mourns the passing of Heinz O. Bertelsmann, professor emeritus and longtime friend of the college. For more than 30 years he shared his keen intellect and deep humanity with Bard's students and faculty as a professor of international re
 CONRADES-Gus. The staff of Goodman Media International mourns the loss of our dear friend and former client, Gus Conrades. We will always remember his tremendous energy, enthusiasm and love for life. Tom Goodman President and CEO       
 COOPER-John D. Died December 6, 2001, at the Community Hospice of North East Florida in Jacksonville. He is survived by his wife Dorothy, sons Daniel, James and John, daughter Elaine Kraus, seven grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. He was a veteran of W.W. II and the Korean War.      
 GURTMAN-Alan. The Members, Board of Governors and Officers of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of a good friend and fellow member of longstanding and extend their deepest sympathies to his wife, Jill, and the family. Morton Klein, President       
 MINTER-Bobby. On December 6, Bobby Minter, loving spouse to Maggi Landau, and adoring father to Sarah and Casey, died from gastric cancer. He was 48. Caring son to Evelyn and Robert Minter and loving big brother to George, Bill and Sue Minter. Fantastic uncle to Thomas, Hannah, Ariel, Jake,
 PUFFER-James Chadbourne, 65. Died Thursday, December 6, 2001 in Wellington, FL. He was the son of James C. Puffer and Margaret Davidson Puffer. Mr. Puffer was graduated from the University of Vermont and was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity. Mr. Puffer was formerly an executive wi
 Seydou Keïta, whose sure grasp of photographic portraiture and sophisticated understanding of strong graphics in African textiles turned him from a little-known studio artist in Mali to a formidable figure in photography, died on Nov. 21 in Paris. He lived in Bamako, the capital of Mali, a
 Sidney H. Kelley, a member of the family of used-car dealers who developed the Kelley Blue Book on car prices, died Wednesday in Norco, Calif. He was 92. The Kelley Kar Company started in 1918 with three Model T Fords in an open lot and in its heyday after World War II was the bigge
 Dr. Sidney Milton Silverstone, a pioneer in radiotherapy and a teacher whose association with Mount Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine spanned more than six decades, died Tuesday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 93. He came to the school in 1933 to study neuropathology and sa
 George Young, who in 19 seasons as the Giants' general manager lifted a storied but moribund football franchise to two Super Bowl championships and became perhaps the most respected professional football executive of his day, died yesterday in Baltimore after a short illness. He was
 BERTELSMANN-Heinz O. The Bard College community deeply mourns the passing of Heinz O. Bertelsmann, professor emeritus and longtime friend of the college. For more than 30 years he shared his keen intellect and deep humanity with Bard's students and faculty as a professor of international re
 BUCHNER-Marvin. At age 72. Loving husband of Phyllis. Adored father of Alan and Karen Buchner and Caryn and Tim Coville. Cherished grandfather of Jason, Ryan, Brian and Robbie. Devoted brother of Bunny, Doris, Alvin, Marty and the late Bernie. Dear uncle and friend. Respected attorney who l
 CASTER-Garnet H. (Gary). On Saturday, August 11, 2001, passed away peacefully at St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Canada after a long and courageous battle with Alzheimer's disease. He was age 86. Garnet dedicated his life to the pursuit of learning & the education of children and youth. He
 COWAN-Philip M. The Officers, Trustees and Members of The Copyright Society of the U.S.A. mourn the passing of Philip M. Cowan, our Vice President/President-Elect on December 6, 2001, after a courageous battle with cancer. Phil was diagnosed with cancer just before our June 2000 Annual Meet
 CREDITOR-Hilly. Died on December 6, 2001, at the age of ninetythree and one half, survived by two loving sons, Paul and Richard; Richard's wife, Dayle; and Paul's special love, Ellen, as well as three grandchildren and their spouses who truly adored him, Jay and Karen; Jaime and Stuart and 
 DRISCOLL-David Burton. Died peacefully December 6, at age 59, after a heroic year-long battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Patricia Ellen Rowell, devoted father of Scott and Hannah, loving grandfather of Jack and Emma, and younger brother of Dr. Scott H. M. Driscoll. Graduate of Princeto
 ENGLISH-Louis Carroll, M.D. (Woody). Of New York, New York and North Truro, Massachusetts, December 4, 2001, at age 86. He was a psychoanalyst and collagist. He leaves his wife Esther Moellenhoff English, son Andrew, daughter Ellen & 3 grandchildren. He was predeceased by his first wife Con
 GELBER-Rabbi Shalome Michael, Ph.D. Peacefully at home in New York on December 8, 2001. Beloved husband of his darling Marianne Wientzen Gelber. Son of the late Louis and Sara Gelber. Brother of Sylva Gelber of Ottawa, Canada, and the late Lionel, Marvin and Arthur Gleber of Toronto, Canada
 GREENBERG-Leonard. In San Jose, CA. on November 28, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Arlene Greenberg. Father of Andrea Chesnov (Jahn) and Laurie Himelstein (Mark). Leaves behind four granddaughters and brothers Walter and Robert. He was formerly from the Bronx and Flushing. Condolences to
 HOAG-Dr. John Marshall. Age 89. Of Pawling, New York. Died Tuesday, November 20, 2001. He was a former resident of Chappaqua and New York City. Dr. Hoag was an Osteopathic physician at Leroy Hospital in New York City, retiring in 1990. A life member of the Academy of Sciences, Medical Direc
 KAPLAN-Edward, 44. of Old Westbury, formerly of Plainview, died of unexpected heart failure on December 7, 2001. Loving son of Robert Kaplan and the late Shirley Kaplan. He was a devoted husband to Penny and an extremely loving father to his children Heather and Lee. He is best known in bus
 KERRIGAN-Richard Thomas, 74. Of 107 Osprey Bay, Washington, NC, died Dec. 4, 2001. Funeral mass 11AM, Tuesday, December 11, 2001 at St. John The Evangelist Catholic Church, First Avenue and 55th Street, Manhattan. Graveside service 1:30PM Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in East Orange, NJ. He was b
 KESSLER-Moe. Lifelong NYC resident as well as the founder, president and CEO of Outwater Plastics Industries and Architectural Products by Outwater, died on December 4th in Manhattan. Kessler, who, with the love and support of his late wife, Sylvia and their two sons, Richard and Peter, wen
 MAPPLETHORPE - Harry. The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc. notes with sadness the death of Harry Mapplethorpe on November 30, 2001, the father of Robert Mapplethorpe, the Foundation's founder, who predeceased him on March 9, 1989. Our sympathy is extended to the families of Robert Mappl
 MINTER-Bobby. On December 6, Bobby Minter, loving spouse to Maggi Landau, and adoring father to Sarah and Casey, died from gastric cancer. He was 48. Caring son to Evelyn and Robert Minter and loving big brother to George, Bill and Sue Minter. Fantastic uncle to Thomas, Hannah, Ariel, Jake,
 PAPPERT-Lewis, Dr., 85. Died November 29, 2001 in North Hollywood, California. He is survived by his children, Marilyn and Robert, sister Jacqueline Heiken, and his dear friend & former wife, Helen       
 ROSENFELD-Mortimer, D.D.S., passed away on December 7, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife Rosalind, loving children Janet and William Rothman, Jeffrey and Patti Rosenfeld, Richard Rosenfeld, Gary Rosenfeld, and loving grandchildren David, Jamie, Jennifer, Rachel, Danielle and Martin. Dr. of
 ROTH-A. Sidney. On Thursday, December 6, in Andover, MA; formerly of Palm Beach, FL and Massapequa, NY. Predeceased by his wife, Selma (Halpert). Survived by his children, Jonathan and Barbara of Westport, CT; Peter and Amy of Rochester, NY and Leslie and David Silverstein of Andover, MA an
 RUSHMORE-Leon. An active member of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), Westbury Meeting, died on December 5th at Stonybrook Hospital. He was 91. The cause was heart failure. A graduate of Friends Academy in Locust Valley, New York, and of Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pennsylva
 SCHARFFENBERGER - George Thomas. Born May 22, 1919 in Hollis, New York, died November 10, 2001 at his home in Rolling Hills, CA. He was a graduate of Columbia University and joined the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen. He later became chairman and CEO of City Investing Company in New York
 STACK-J. Philip. The Vision Fund of America (VFA) is deeply saddened by the passing of Phil Stack, a founding member and first Chairman. Through the VFA, Phil, a retiree of the Sony Corp., worked tirelessly to encourage professionals within visual media industries, to ''give something back.
 TROTTA-Sigmund R. 89. Longtime resident of Pelham and Montauk, N.Y. Beloved husband of Anita, father of Ric Charles and the late Sig Robert, brother of Edward, Al and the late Maurice, grandfather of six, great-grandfather of six and son of Dr. and Mrs. Enrico Trotta. December 6 of congesti
 Charlie McClendon, one of college football's most prominent coaches of the 1960's and 70's, when he took Louisiana State University to 13 bowl games, died Friday at his home in Baton Rouge, La. He was 78. He was treated in recent months for cancer of the fatty tissue. McClen
 George Young, who in 19 seasons as the Giants' general manager lifted a storied but moribund football franchise to two Super Bowl victories, and who drafted the two players, Phil Simms and Lawrence Taylor, who became the cornerstones of those championship teams, died Saturday night in Balti
 DRISCOLL-David Burton. Died peacefully December 6, at age 59, after a heroic year-long battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Patricia Ellen Rowell, devoted father of Scott and Hannah, loving grandfather of Jack and Emma, and younger brother of Dr. Scott H. M. Driscoll. Graduate of Princeto
 FISHER-Arthur Irving. 89 years. Beloved husband of the late Mildred. Devoted father of Arlene Davis (Chuck), Fred Fisher (Patti), Faith Einhorn (Robert). Loving grandfather of Eric, Ian (Nada), Mara Davis; Glenn, Gregg (Jenny) Fisher; Hayley, Heather, Sam Einhorn. Great-grandfather of Logan
 MINTER-Bobby. On December 6, Bobby Minter, loving spouse to Maggi Landau, and adoring father to Sarah and Casey, died from gastric cancer. He was 48. Caring son to Evelyn and Robert Minter and loving big brother to George, Bill and Sue Minter. Fantastic uncle to Thomas, Hannah, Ariel, Jake,
 OVERSTROM-Gunnar S, Jr. Of West Hartford, CT, a prominent banker and distinguished community leader, died unexpectedly on December 6, while traveling in Chicago, IL. He was 59. Mr. Overstrom, a former Vice Chairman of FleetBoston Financial, and the former President and Chief Operating Offic
 SCHWARTZ-Meyer. On December 7, 2001. Meyer Schwartz, a true New Yorker, died in San Francisco. An attorney admired by his colleagues, he loved the law and became General Counsel of Nikon Inc. A loving and beloved husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather and uncle, we will miss his wi
 STEIN-Joshua A. 25. Survived by his mother Adrian, his father Charles, his sister Alison, his two grandmothers, Edith and Gert, and all of his family and many friends who loved him so dearly.       
 WATERSTON-Harry. On December 5, 2001, at the age of 92. Longtime Riverdale resident, Harry was a versatile and prolific artist specializing in watercolor and best known for his sketches of Riverdale landmarks and scenic views. He leaves a legacy through his paintings and commitment to the J
 ANCIS-Joe. Intelligent, witty and a rare comedic gem, who will be missed by his friends and those who knew him. Jerry and Chuck       
 BROWN-Seymour W. On December 9, 2001. Former President of Michael Baker Jr. of NY and Seymour W. Brown & Associates. Advisor to Admiral Hyman Rickover in the design of environmental systems for the U.S.N. Nautilus, the nation's first nuclear submarine. A pioneer in the commercial use of was
 BUTTON-James Wilson. Age 84, retired Sears marketing executive and Navy veteran. Beloved husband of Lurena Stubbs Button. Loving father of James W. Button, Jr. of St. Louis, MO, Douglas S. Button of Louisville, TN, and Katherine Button Bell of St. Louis, MO. Dear grandfather of eight; great
 CHRISTENSEN-Bernt I. ''Chris''. Goshen, New York. Died Friday, December 7, 2001. In Goshen. He was 99 years old.       
 COUNTEE-Roger W., M.D. We mourn the death of Roger Countee. Dr. Countee completed his neurosurgical training at the Neurological Institute of New York, Columbia University in 1975. He was a dedicated and caring physician, outstanding surgeon, respected colleague and a dear friend. Our deepe
 DEVLIN-Harry. Died on November 25 of lymphoma at his home in Mountainside, NJ. An artist and writer of great renown, Harry was the loving husband of Wende for 60 years; together they created 26 children's books, including the ''Cranberry'' series and ''Old Black Witch,'' later a movie. A Li
 GOLDMAN-Murray. Consulting Engineer, age 81, died December 1, 2001. Devoted husband of Anne, loving father of David, Susan Luca and Ellen, and brother of Rosalind Black. Murray spent his first years on the Lower East Side in New York City; the family later moved to Ozone Park. In the early 
 GREEN-Walter, 62. On December 9, after a 10-year battle with ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease). A respected executive in the fashion industry since the early 1970's, he headed up several companies and served as president of Joseph Abboud and Burberry. He was a tireless ALS advocate and in 1999 was
 NITZBURG-Arthur R. The Workmen's Circle Branch 1006 mourns the loss of our dear member. His wisdom and good nature were shared by all. Our deepest condolences to his dear family. Herb Rosen, Chairman       
 PALATIN-Joseph. December 9, 2001. Born 1910 in southern Russia. Survived by his wife of 59 years, Jean, two children, six grandchildren and many more who loved him for his fatherly generosity. A formidable chess player, a poet, an energetic lover of life, a fearless optimist and above all a
 POTCHTAR-Harold. Age 77, passed away Friday, December 7, in Boca Raton, FL. Mr. Potchtar was the former president, CEO and co-founder of Toscany Imports Ltd., NYC. He served as a 1st Lieutenant in W.W. II earning two DFC's. Mr. Potchtar was the former president of the Italy America Chamber 
 STEIN-Ben Zion. Congregation Orach Chaim extends its heartfelt condolences to our devoted member, Dr. Barry Stein, on the passing of his beloved father in South Africa, where the shiva will be observed. May he and the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael
 WADELTON-Francis Bacon Jr., of Norfolk, CT, formerly of Brooklyn Heights, NY and Quogue LI, died December 8 at the age of 86, survived by his son, F.B. Wadelton, III and his daughters, Elizabeth S. Knight and Nancy H. Wadelton, his granddaughter, Anne, sister Thomasine Orsburn, and brother,
 WATERSTON-Harry C. New York Metropolitan Region, The United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the passing of our distinguished Past President. May his memory be for a blessing. Marsha Shlefstein, President Bruce F. Greenfield, Exec Director       
 WHITE-Sidney. A renowned navigator and journalist, died at 77, on November 1. Mr. White served in the Navy from 1942-1946. With a Master's Degree in Journalism and Asian Studies, University of Michigan, he served for many years as a war correspondent in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. A
 Pierre de Bénouville, a hero of the French Resistance in World War II, died on Wednesday in Paris. He was 87 and lived in Paris. A literary critic before the war, he formed the United Movements of the Resistance, an early part of the overall Resistance movement in Nazi-occupied Fra
 Dave Graue, one of only three cartoonists to work on the syndicated strip ''Alley Oop'' since its beginnings in 1933, died on Monday after a truck hit his car near his home in Flat Rock, N.C. He was 75. Mr. Graue inherited the strip, about a club-wielding Neanderthal, in 1950 from V
 David Astor, who as editor for 27 years of Britain's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer, built it up into a respected and successful advocate for liberal causes but later presided over its financial decline, died on Dec. 7 in London. He was 89. Mr. Astor once defined the paper's 
 ATLAS-Anthony H., 68. Died December 11, 2001 at his home in Rego Park, NY. Beloved husband of Elena, father of Seth and Cliff, father-in-law of Clare and Laura. Loving grandfather of Emily, Elizabeth and Benjamin. Beloved brother of Jeffrey. Tony was a dedicated attorney, public servant, an
 BARNETT-Charles. The Woodcrest Club of Syosset, N.Y. mourns the recent passing of fellow member Charles Barnett and extends its sincere sympathy to his family. He was loved and will be missed by all the members and staff of The Woodcrest Club.       
 BROWN-Seymour. The City College Fund mourns the passing of its longtime eminent Director and Board member. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Ruth, and family. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chairman Herbert Robinson, President James L. Schatz, Executive Director       
 GARFUNKEL-B. Julian. December 10, 2001 at age 89. Spirited and loving husband of Edith for 65 years; proud father of George and Sandy, Ronald and Sande; loving and involved grandfather of Jon and Betsy, Jill, Stacy and Rob; adoring great-grandfather of Emily and Maddie. Survived by his sist
 GREENFIELD-Myron J. Of Teaneck, NJ, died peacefully in his sleep on Sunday, December 9, after a long illness. His memory will be cherished by his wife, Sophie Greenfield, his children, Peter Greenfield and Phyllis G. Ross, his grandchildren, Lillian and Sarah Ross, his great grandson, Jacob
 KAPLAN-Dr. Lawrence. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Larry Kaplan. Larry had been a member of Fairview since 1974. On behalf of all our members, we extend our deepest condolences to his wife Janet, and 
 KAPLAN-Lawrence I., M.D. Passed away Dec. 11th at home in Longboat Key, FL. Loving and singularly devoted husband of 58 years to Janet, cherished father to Richard and Laurie, and beloved grandfather to Wesley. Adored by family and friends for his limitless generosity and his gift for findi
 KELLY-Edward F. Died peacefully at home December 9th, at age 78, after a courageous three year battle with cancer. For 50 years he was the loving husband of Jeanne Bradley. Devoted father of Marie Frances Burns, Kate Kelly Smith, Edward F. Jr., and T. Bradley. Adoring grandfather of Talley,
 KLIMLEY-Stanley (Stan) Peter. Died December 2, in Boca Raton, FL of cancer at the age of 86. Beloved husband of Ann; adored father of April and Abbott Peter; beloved stepfather of John Sarafoglu and Stephanie Tassos; esteemed father-in-law of Patricia and Anna Soo Hoo; admired uncle of Susa
 LEWIS-Aubrey. The Board of Commissioners and the employees of The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey mourn the passing of Aubrey C. Lewis, who served as a distinguished member of the Board from 1997 to 1999. Commissioner Lewis gave freely of his time and talent in service to the Port
 MOUZAKITIS-Spyros. Died on Monday, December 10, 2001. Will be buried on Friday, December 14, 2001 in Byron's Cemetery, Athens, Greece. Viewing will take place at Antonopoulos Funeral Home, Inc. 38-08 Ditmars Blvd., Astoria, NY on Wednesday, December 12, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Adored husband of Jan
 ROSEN-Leonard K. Age 87, passed away on Tuesday, December 11, 2001. He is survived by his wife of almost 63 years, Thelma J. Rosen. He is also survived by his daughter, Gail F. Berman and a daughter in California, five grandchildren, Alan, Matthew, Marion and Kevin, and a granddaughter. Mr.
 RUSSO-Charles. With deep sorrow, we mourn the passing of Charles Russo, dedicated member of the Board of Directors of the Sephardic Nursing Home. Son of Jacob Russo, one of our great founders. We offer condolences to his wife, Roberta Russo, his children and the entire family. Officers and 
 STEIN-Martin G. Formerly of Cambria Heights, died Saturday, December 8, 2001, at the age of 79. Devoted husband of the late Gloria. Loving father and father-in-law of Anetta, Steffi and Laurie; Ray, David & Jon. Adoring grandfather of Jamie, Dana, Emma and Ben. Cherished brother of Sam. Kin
 Aubrey Lewis, who was one of New Jersey's greatest high school athletes and a track and football star at Notre Dame, then forged careers in law enforcement, business and public administration, died Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66. Lewis, who st
 Don Tennant, the advertising agency executive who specialized in creating characters like Tony the Tiger during the heyday of such marketing ploys, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 79. Mr. Tennant, who recently moved from his home in San Diego to Los Angeles, where two of his
 AGREE-George E. On December 11, 2001, at the age of 80. Executive Director of the Institute for Representative Government in Washington, D.C. Survived by his wife Lee; sons Andrew, Robert, Jonathan; daughters-in-law Patty and Melissa; grandsons Isaac, Samuel, Gabriel, Adam.       
 DOWNEY-Raymond. Of Deer Park, LI, FDNY-Deputy Chief of Special Operations Command, heroically in the line of duty at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, a week before his 64th birthday. Beloved husband of Rosalie (nee Princiotta). Loving and adored father of Joseph and Lynn, Marie
 GARFUNKEL-B. Julian. December 10, 2001 at age 89. Spirited and loving husband of Edith for 65 years; proud father of George and Sandy, Ronald and Sande; loving and involved grandfather of Jon and Betsy, Jill, Stacy and Rob; adoring great-grandfather of Emily and Maddie. Survived by his sist
 GAUTHIER-Wendell. December 11. We mourn the passing of a dear friend and confidant. Wendell was a great human being who was both compassionate and understanding, and will be terribly missed by all those who knew and respected him. He was one of the great pioneers and a true leader in the fi
 GLENNON-Gerard E. Of White Plains, NY, died December 10, 2001. He was the loving husband of Alicia Lois Glennon for 51 years, the son of the late William and Elenor Glennon. The devoted father of Peter G. of Ridgefield, CT and Kevin C. of White Plains and three grandchildren. For informatio
 IGLER-Kirk A. Age 57. Of Starksboro, VT. Died unexpectedly Tuesday, December 11, 2001. He was born in Scranton, PA., on May 4, 1944, the son of the late Frederick and Viola (Kirkendall) Igler. Kirk was a graduate of Drew University in Madison, N.J. He was an antique dealer and appraiser wor
 JACOBSON-Nicholas Biel, 89. Of Norwich, VT, December 7th. Educated at Horace Mann, Dartmouth College, and Stockbridge School of Agriculture, a farmer and playwright, he served with the U.S. Army in Europe during World War II. Survived by his wife, Geraldine Marsicano, daughters, Antoinette 
 KAPLAN-Lawrence I., M.D. Passed away Dec. 11th at home in Longboat Key, FL. Loving and singularly devoted husband of 58 years to Janet, cherished father to Richard and Laurie, and beloved grandfather to Wesley. Adored by family and friends for his limitless generosity and his gift for findi
 KELLY-Edward F. Died peacefully at home December 9th, at age 78, after a courageous three year battle with cancer. For 50 years he was the loving husband of Jeanne Bradley. Devoted father of Marie Frances Burns, Kate Kelly Smith, Edward F. Jr., and T. Bradley. Adoring grandfather of Talley,
 MURPHY-Christopher J. A 34 year resident of Scarsdale, NY. Chris, 41 years old, died suddenly on December 11, 2001 of the complications of juvenile diabetes. He was born in Old Bridge, NJ on September 18, 1960. Chris was a graduate of Seely Place School and Edgemont High School in Scarsdale
 PALMER-Paul V. Died suddenly, on December 11, 2001, of Rye, NY. Beloved husband of Nancy, devoted father of Kurt and Colleen. Survived by 9 brothers and sisters. Predeceased by his parents, Thomas and Dolores. Family will receive friends at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Post Road, Rye, NY F
 POLON-Robert. On December 11, 2001. 93 years young. Cherished father of Vicki, Ira and Marilyn. Grandfather of Peter, Sara and Jonathan. Great-grandfather of Katie. Dearest friend of Ini, Tim, Irving and Becky. All were touched by his sweetness and wit. He will be sorely missed. Services Fr
 ROSE-Charles. Friends and Partners of Pont Street Stable are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Charlie Rose. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wonderful wife Marion and his entire family. He will be greatly missed by all. Stanley Ettinger Elizabeth Evans Pont Street Partners       
 SETZER-Gene W. of South Nyack, NY. Died on December 4, 2001. He is survived by his wife Kathleen, children Janet and John Broughton, Charles and Dawn Setzer and Dell Setzer. A memorial service will be held on January 5, 2002 at 1pm at the Hannemann Funeral Home, Inc., 88 South Broadway, Nya
 SLATER-Michael Wylie, 58 years old, died suddenly from injuries suffered in an accident, on December 8, 2001. He is survived by his beloved wife of 34 years, Teri, his two adored sons, Eric and Edward, as well as his brother Jonathan Slater, numerous nieces, nephews and cousins. He attended
 TROTTER-Parsons. Age 84, died after a brief illness on December 10, 2001. Born on March 5, 1917 in Rochester, N.Y., Mr. Trotter was associated with Crown Publishing before his retirement. Funeral services will be held at 2:30pm on Saturday, December 15th at St. Thomas Church, 5th Ave & 53rd
 Larry Costello, who played guard for the Philadelphia 76ers' 1966-67 championship team and coached the Milwaukee Bucks to the 1970-71 league title in a National Basketball Association career that spanned more than two decades, died Tuesday in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 70. The cause wa
 GUNSBERG - Amos. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., mourns the loss of its dear friend Amos Gunsberg. His great generosity has furthered our work at the Hadassah Medical Organization and the Hadassah College of Technology in Israel. We express our condolences to hi
 HALL-Stephen R. Died peacefully at age 62 on December 12 after a courageous battle with cancer. For 36 years, he was the loving husband and best friend of Jena Hall. Proud father and father-inlaw, confidant, counselor and best friend to Jocelyn and Ronald Burton, and Marni and Edward Hallis
 KLAUSNER-Lawrence. Loving husband of Sydelle. Devoted father of Caryn, Jill and Richard, Lisa and Brad. Adoring grandfather of Melissa, Jennifer, Stephanie, Jake and Peri. His warmth, kindness and zest for life will forever be in our hearts. Services Friday, 10AM, at Temple Judea of Manhass
 KOTLEN-David, 91. On December 12, 2001 of Teaneck, NJ. Longtime resident of Fall River, MA. Beloved husband of the late Ida. Adoring father of Jill and Steve Meisels, Jason and Susan Kotlen. Loving grandfather of Jessica and Lauren Meisels, Robyn Kotlen, Melissa Nagin. Great grandfather to 
 LEVI-John Dennis ''JD'', on September 11, 2001, while heroically performing his duties as a police officer for the New York and New Jersey Port Authority. Beloved son of Johanna. Devoted father of Dennis and Jennifer. Cherished Pop-Pop to Katerina. Funeral Saturday, 9:45AM, from the D.J. Sc
 McSHERRY-Charles K., MD, F.A.C.S. Emeritus clinical professor of surgery, Cornell University Medical College. Director of surgery, Beth Israel Medical Center 1976-1990. Attending surgeon at the New York Presbyterian Hospital. Past-President of the New York Surgical Society, NY, Gastroentero
 MURPHY-Christopher J. A 34 year resident of Scarsdale, NY. Chris, 41 years old, died suddenly on December 11, 2001 of the complications of juvenile diabetes. He was born in Old Bridge, NJ on September 18, 1960. Chris was a graduate of Seely Place School and Edgemont High School in Scarsdale
 OPAS-Irwin. 3 Arrows Cooperative is saddened by the loss of its longtime active member and former director of its day camp. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rita, his daughters Susan and Mary-Ellen, as well as the entire family. Halona Balgley, President.       
 PALMER-Paul V. Died suddenly, on December 11, 2001, of Rye, NY. Beloved husband of Nancy, devoted father of Kurt and Colleen. Survived by 9 brothers and sisters. Predeceased by his parents, Thomas and Dolores. Family will receive friends at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Post Road, Rye, NY F
 RIZZO-Peter Cyrus, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, and Admistration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of their Honorary Staff member Peter Cyrus Rizzo, M.D., whose lifelong dedication to the field of orthopedics began when he entered the Hos
 SACKS-Robert (Bob). Passed away on December 12, 2001 with dignity as he lived. He is survived by his wife Irene, children Stuart and Donna, daughter-in-law Renee and son-in-law John, grandchildren Aaron and Rebecca, brothers Jack and Lester. He will be dearly missed.       
 SLATER-Michael Wylie, 58 years old, died suddenly from injuries suffered in an accident, on December 8, 2001. He is survived by his beloved wife of 34 years, Teri, his two adored sons, Eric and Edward, as well as his brother Jonathan Slater, numerous nieces, nephews and cousins. He attended
 SLOTE-Leslie M., Ph.D. 86. Of Hartsdale. Survived by his wife Kathryn, sons David and Richard and three grandchildren. Funeral today 2:30 PM Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue, (Exit 17 Saw Mill) Dobbs Ferry. Memorials to American Diabetes Association.       
 TROTTER-Parsons. Age 84, died after a brief illness on December 10, 2001. Born on March 5, 1917 in Rochester, N.Y., Mr. Trotter was associated with Crown Publishing before his retirement. Funeral services will be held at 2:30pm on Saturday, December 15th at St. Thomas Church, 5th Ave & 53rd
 WADLINGTON-Cuba, Jr. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the March of Dimes mourn the passing of our friend and esteemed Board of Advisors member Cuba Wadlington, Jr. Mr. Wadlington, executive vice-president of Williams (NYSE: WMB) of Tulsa, OK, and president and chief executive 
 WOLOSOFF-Milton. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the loss of Milton Wolosoff, past Vice President and sitting Trustee of our congregation. His devotion to his family and community was exemplary. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zio
 A. Keith Smiley, a resort executive and environmentalist who helped protect thousands of acres of scenic landscape in Ulster County, N.Y. as a nature preserve, died on Dec. 6 in Goshen, N.Y. He was 91. He was a longtime resident of Mohonk Mountain House, a 251-room resort in
 FOX-Rev. James F., S.J. on December 14, 2001. Dear brother of Margot Lowth of Ireland, loving uncle of Louise. Friends may call at the Loyola School Chapel (enter at 63-69 E 83 St) on Sunday 3-5 & 79PM, as well as Monday 2-4PM. Mass of Christian burial at Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park
 GASSERT-Thomas H. Of Little Silver, New Jersey, on December 12, 2001, at age 73. He was a NJ lawyer for almost 40 years. In 1945, he graduated from Xavier High School in Manhattan; and was a 1949 graduate of Fordham College, as well as a 1954 graduate of Fordham Law School, both at the Bron
 HAGENBACH-Edward. Of Stamford, CT on December 13, 2001. He is survived by his wife, Ann, and their four children. Calling hours Sunday 4-7 at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home, 2900 Summer Street, Stamford, CT. Mass at the Church of the Holy Spirit, on Monday, at 11 AM.       
 KAPLAN-Edward. The Woodcrest Club of Syosset, NY mourns the recent passing of fellow member Edward Kaplan and extends its sincerest sympathy to his family. He will be missed by all the members and staff of the Woodcrest Club.       
 LYNCH-David B. Died at his home in Gladwyne, PA December 14, 2001 of Lou Gehrigs disease (ALS). Beloved husband of Josephine, devoted father of David, Tina L. Fiertz and Linda, and three grandchildren. Survived by his sister, Helen L. Dickey of Devon, PA and brother, William R. Lynch of Gre
 MAAS-Alfred Egon. On December 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Lane and loving father of the late Clifford W. Maas. He is also survived by nephews Mark and Jeffrey, and his very close-knit family. He was cherished by all who knew him.       
 McSHERRY-Charles K., MD, F.A.C.S. Emeritus Clinical Professor of Surgery, Cornell University Medical College. Director of Surgery, Beth Israel Medical Center 1976-1990. Attending surgeon at the New York Presbyterian Hospital. Past-President of the New York Surgical Society, NY Gastroenterol
 MURPHY-Christopher J. A 34 year resident of Scarsdale, NY. Chris, 41 years old, died suddenly on December 11, 2001 of the complications of juvenile diabetes. He was born in Old Bridge, NJ on September 18, 1960. Chris was a graduate of Seely Place School and Edgemont High School in Scarsdale
 MUSHER-Albert. On December 14, 2001, age 97. Beloved husband of the late Willma. Loving father of Betsy M. Boruchoff, Jonathan E. Musher and Leo Boruchoff. Dear grandfather of Nancy Orgel, Barbara Winer, Louis, Caroline, Noah, Lucas and Jeremy Musher. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey, Hilary an
 PALMER-Paul. The Officers, Members, and Staff of the Pawling Mountain Club mourn the passing of our fellow sportsman and dear friend. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Philip Bonanno, Chairman Peter Cholnoky, President       
 ROBBINS-Norman. Beloved and devoted husband of Lynn. Adored son of Mollie. Loving father of Dr. Steven and Judi, and Lawrence and Eve. Cherished grandfather of Jake and Halley. Dear brother of Elaine and Charlie Schmelkin and Gloria and Phil Darvin. Services at 10AM, Sunday December 16 at G
 SCHWARTZ-Irving, 81. Of Sarasota, FL and Norwalk, CT. Husband of Rita Mischel Schwartz, died on Friday in Sarasota. Born in New York City on December 28, 1919, he was the son of the late David and Regina Drucker Schwartz. Mr. Schwartz, a retired CPA, was the founding partner of Schwartz & H
 W. G. Sebald, the profoundly elegiac and distinctive author of ''Austerlitz'' and other novels and one of the most acclaimed of contemporary writers, was killed yesterday in an automobile accident in Norfolk, England, near his home in Norwich in East Anglia. He was 57. He was drivin
 John M. Culbertson, an economist known for mounting an articulate defense of protectionist economic policy long after the tenets of free trade were de rigueur among his colleagues, died on Sunday in Madison, Wis. He was 80. Mr. Culbertson had been suffering from Parkinson's disease,
 AMES-Lawrence Dr., 94, formerly of Brooklyn, died December 12, 2001 at the Jewish Home of Central New York in Syracuse. A 1931 graduate of New York Medical College. He was a physician in private general practice in Brooklyn since 1932. A past President of the Kings County Medical Society, p
 ANDERS-William, Professor of German and linguistics, died in his sleep at age 93 on November 27, 2001. Memorial at Long Island University, CW Post Campus, Greenvale, NY to be announced later in the spring.       
 COLETTA-Harold R. Violist extraordinaire and bon vivant was born in the Bronx on January 25, 1917, and died in NYC on November 29, 2001. His parents emigrated from Italy with their families; his from Fondi, hers from Sorano in the early 1900's. Harold became interested in the violin at an e
 DELLHEIM-Walter J., December 2. Beloved husband and dearest friend of Rosalind. Devoted father of Charles, Jeffrey, and Jonathan, & father-in-law of Laura. Adoring grandfather of Alexandra and Caroline, always remembered in our hearts and thoughts. Born in Germany in 1922, he arrived in New
 FISHER-Philip, 94 years old. Lived in Belmont, CA, formerly of Elkins Park, PA., and Miami Beach, FL. Beloved husband of the late Kathryn (Cubby) who passed away six weeks ago. He didn't want to live without her. Married 65 years. Devoted father of Dr. Herbert (Lilliann) Fisher of San Mateo
 FOX-Rev. James F., S.J. on December 14, 2001. Dear brother of Margot Lowth of Ireland, loving uncle of Louise. Friends may call at the Loyola School Chapel (enter at 63-69 E 83 St) on Sunday 3-5 & 79PM, as well as Monday 2-4PM. Mass of Christian burial at Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park
 JOHNS-Erik. The staff and composers of Boosey & Hawkes mourn the sudden loss of Erik Johns, distinguished libretist, collaborator, writer. He was a friend to many of the 20th Century's great composers and his spirited presence will be missed. Jennifer Bilfield, General Manager Boosey & Hawk
 LIPTON-Benjamin. On December 13, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Ann. Loving father of James and his wife Jill. Dear brother of Henry, Edward and the late Louis. Adoring grandfather of Gordon. Service will be held at Riverdale Temple, Monday, December 17, at 11:30 AM. Burial at Cedar Park
 LYNCH-David B. Died at his home in Gladwyne, PA December 14, 2001 of Lou Gehrigs disease (ALS). Beloved husband of Josephine, devoted father of David, Tina L. Fiertz and Linda, and three grandchildren. Survived by his sister, Helen L. Dickey of Devon, PA and brother, William R. Lynch of Gre
 McSHERRY-Charles K., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family and the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, acknowledge with sadness the passing of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Charles K. McSherry, M.D. Dr. McSherry served with distinction as the Di
 MORRISON-Richard Elliot. 72. Passed away December 11, 2001, in Summit, NJ, his home of 43 years. Beloved husband of Nina. Cherished father of Shira and father-in-law of Jonathan. Loving grandfather of Samantha. Devoted brother, brother-in-law and deeply missed uncle. Born in Brooklyn, NY, R
 MURPHY-Christopher J. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Chris Murphy, son of Joseph and JoAnn Murphy of Scarsdale, N.Y. Just 41 when he died of complications of juvenile diabet
 MUSHER-Albert. On December 14, 2001, age 97. Beloved husband of the late Willma. Loving father of Betsy M. Boruchoff, Jonathan E. Musher and Leo Boruchoff. Dear grandfather of Nancy Orgel, Barbara Winer, Louis, Caroline, Noah, Lucas and Jeremy Musher. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey, Hilary an
 NEIDERBACH-Arnold. December 5, 2001. He lived in the New York area until 1974. He was retired from the University of California at Berkeley. He is survived by his wife Janet, son Jonathan (Mary) of Des Moines, Iowa, and daughter Evelyn (Steve) Schwartz of Israel and seven grandchildren.    
 PATTI-Alfred J. On December 13, 2001. Al was born in Queens and was 55 years old. Beloved husband of Judith (nee Appelle). Loving father of Stephen & Daniel. Loving son of Mary Patti Lascar and the late Alfred Patti. Loving brother of Janet Fusaro. Al was a graduate of Archbishop Molloy Hig
 RESNICK-Michael. Age 57. Beloved husband and best friend of Rita. Devoted father of Jennifer. Loving son of Rhea and the late Herman. Cherished brother of Vicki and the late Robin. Adoring Poppa of Sammy. Caring brotherin-law and uncle. He will be missed by all who knew him. Services today,
 ROBBINS-Norman. It is with profound sorrow that we mourn the loss of our dear cousin and colleague. He always had a smile and conducted himself with the highest of ethical standards. We extend our sympathy to Lynn, Steven and Lawrence, and the entire Robbins family. Mimi and Burton Belsky  
 RUSSNOW-Edwin. 74, of Alpine, NJ, formerly of Lynbrook, NY, on December 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Julia and the late Jane. Devoted father of Amy and Mark Lapidus, Jodi and Mark Epstein and Edward and Jill Russnow. Dear brother of Madeline and Leo Kass and uncle to Joan, Jack, Gloria and 
 SLATER-Michael. The staff and board of Friends of the Earth wish to express our deepest sadness on the untimely passing of Michael Slater, former president of Friends of the Earth Foundation. A pioneering activist, he was a true friend of the earth-humanitarian and environmentalist both. Th
 SMALL-I. Maxwell. Died on December 15 at the age of 91. A practicing lawyer until the age of 90, Max is survived by his loving wife Norma, devoted children Jeffrey Small and Rise Dimson, grandchildren Denise and Yoav Rekem, Lara and Aviv Lawrence, Stuart and Susan Dimson, David and Alyssa S
 STEWART-Duncan James. 62. Died at home on December 14. Born Amsterdam, NY. Cornell University (B.A. 1961); Cornell University School of Law (LL.B. 1964). US Army Captain (1965-67). Began practicing law at Willkie Farr & Gallagher in 1964, partner since 1973. Survived by wife Susan (Stewart)
 FERUGIO-Michael D. The family of Michael D. Ferugio of Palo Alto, Pennsylvania and New York, wishes to thank everyone who helped to make our grief over losing someone so precious easier to bear. It gave solace to us to know what a profound being he was to so many wonderful friends. God Bles
 Arthur Edwin Bye, a landscape architect whose public and private garden designs strove for a naturalism so artful that students said he knew how to make the snow fall where he wanted, died at Doylestown Hospital in Pennsylvania on Nov. 25. Mr. Bye, whose home was in Ridgefield, Conn., had b
 KURRELMEYER-Louis Hayner. Of Shelburne, Vermont, died in Burlington, VT, on Wednesday, December 12, 2001. He was born in Troy, NY, July 26, 1928, the son of Dr. Bernhard Kurrelmeyer and Dr. Lucy J. Hayner. A member of the New York and Washington, D.C., Bar Associations, Lou worked as a liti
 LEE-Robert Y. Died December 13. Loving husband of Winnie Wong Lee. Devoted father of Daniel W. Lee, M.D. Adoring grandfather of Diana and Elizabeth. B.A. Bowdoin College 1949, M.A. Syracuse University 1950, U.S. Army Intelligence World War II, CPA, former president Republican Club of Chinat
 LEWIS-Irving. 93, known to family and friends as ''Mr. Danskin,'' passed away peacefully at his home in Woodland Hills, California, on December 14, 2001. Former Vice President and co-creator of the Danskin name, Mr. Lewis was the youngest member of the Tenek Icelanders Winter Bathing Polar 
 POLIZZOTTO-Alfred. On December 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Florence. Loving father of Alfred III and Valerie Gullo and father-inlaw of Fran and Michael. Devoted grandfather of Randi, Anthony, Jensen, Michael and Alfred IV. Dear brother of Arlene Esposito. Reposing at Andrew Torregrossa & S
 Seymour V. Reit, an author and illustrator best known as a creator of the cartoon character Casper the Friendly Ghost, died on Nov. 21 in New York City, where he lived. He was 83. Casper, a genial ghost-child who wants only to make friends, has been the subject of 55 theatrically re
 Erik Johns, who wrote the libretto for Aaron Copland's only full-length opera, ''The Tender Land,'' died on Dec. 11 in a fire at his home in East Fishkill, N.Y. He was 74. The police said the cause of death was smoke inhalation. Mr. Johns was born Horace Eugene Johnston in L
 CLARKE-Francis K. (Frank or Kenny). Of East Meadow on December 15th in his 78th year. (Veteran of World War II A.A.F. member of VFW Post Franklin Sq. and retired pressroom Supervisor at The New York Times). Loving husband of Josephine. Devoted father of Michael (Sandra), Kenneth, and Jeffre
 D'ANGELO-Peter. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our retired General Manager. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife, Loretta and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors, Paul Seidenberg, Pre
 DREW-Joan M. On December 15, 2001 after a long illness. Daughter of the late Stephen and Josephine O'Connor Drew. Beloved sister of Michael Drew & his wife Barbara. Friends may call Wednesday 1-3 & 7-9PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Mass of Christian Burial Thur
 GLADSTONE-Richard Bennett. Of Wellesley, MA, on December 16, 2001. Richard Bennett, husband of Kathleen (Dandy) Gladstone. Father of Sarah Gladstone of Managua, Nicaragua. Margaret Calkins, of Hamilton, MA. Emily Coombs, of Jackson, WY, and La Grave, France, and William Gladstone, of Mount 
 KAHN-Peter S. Longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY, died December 14, 2001 in New Milford, CT at the home of his daughter, Alexandra McBrian. At his side, was his loving wife of 61 years, Lida Huelsman Kahn. He is survived by his wife Lida, his sister, Yereth Knowles of Alexandria, VA, and hi
 LEIMAN-Betty Ann. The Committee on Entertainment of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York extends its sincere sympathy to Eugene A. Leiman, a founding member, on the death of his wife Betty Ann. Martha Stine, Secretary Robert D. Lippmann, Chair       
 LEWIS-Irving. 93, known to family and friends as ''Mr. Danskin,'' passed away peacefully at his home in Woodland Hills, California, on December 14, 2001. Former Vice President and co-creator of the Danskin name, Mr. Lewis was the youngest member of the Tenek Icelanders Winter Bathing Polar 
 POWELL-George G. On December 17, 2001 of Sands Point, NY. Founder of Lourdes Industries Inc. Beloved husband of Isabelle. Loving father of Scott, Pamela, Patrice, Glen, Vicki, Joanne. Cherished grandfather of Hannah, Stephanie, Laura, Elizabeth, Wesley. Also survived by his sisters, Catheri
 RONAY-Thomas. The officers and staff of Joseph R. Loring & Associates wish to express our profound sadness at the sudden passing of Thomas Ronay, our friend, mentor, Chief Financial Officer and Director. His advice and counsel, which guided us for 15 years, will be sorely missed. We extend 
 STEWART-Duncan J. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague, Duncan. One of our first Board members, Duncan brought a rare combination of intelligence, humor, compassion, and generosity to this young organization at a time when we most needed these strengths. We are pro
 Stefan Heym, the widely published author of more than a dozen historical and political novels, died yesterday while on a lecture tour in Israel. He was 88 and lived in Berlin. A Jew uprooted in Germany in 1933 by the Nazis, Mr. Heym became an intellectual nomad and a lifelong Marxis
 Adm. Ulysses S. Grant Sharp Jr., the commander in chief of the United States Pacific Command in the Vietnam War and an outspoken critic of how the war was fought, died on Wednesday at home in San Diego. He was 95. Admiral Sharp, a decorated veteran of three wars, was appointed by Pr
 Anthony Gigliotti, a mainstay of the Philadelphia Orchestra sound as principal clarinetist for 47 years and a polymath of the instrument who trained generations of colleagues, died on Dec. 3 at a hospital in Camden, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Cherry Hill, N.J. The cause was complic
 Gilbert Bécaud, a popular French crooner and prolific songwriter whose song ''Et Maintenant'' became a worldwide hit in English as ''What Now My Love,'' died in Paris today on his houseboat on the Seine. He was 74. Friends reported that the cause was cancer. Mr. Bécaud, wh
 ALEXANDRE-L. Jerome ''Jerry'', 78, of Greenville, SC, died December 17, 2001. Born in Glen Cove, Long Island, NY, he was the son of the late J. Henry Alexandre, Jr. and Anne Loomis Alexandre. He attended Pomfret Preparatory School where he graduated in the Class of 1941. He then attended Ha
 COLBATH-Edwin H. On December 17, 2001 of Ridge, L.I. Formerly of Forest Hills, Queens. Beloved uncle of Douglas Colbath and his wife, Rebecca. Also survived by many loving friends. Mr. Colbath was appointed to a teaching position with NYC Public School 101 in Forest Hills, Queens in 1939. H
 GIDDINGS-Paul G. Age 67. On October 18, 2001 after a long battle with cancer. Mr. Giddings was the first full time employee of Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette in 1959 and retired as Executive Vice President in 1975. He was formerly Vice Chair of the Studio Museum in Harlem and a consultant to
 KOLODNY-Saul on December 11, 2001 at age 83 in Danville, California. Devoted husband of Myra. Beloved father of Nancy, Carol, and her husband Richard Lees. Loving grandfather of Laura. Born in Yonkers, New York, graduated from Columbia College with honors in 1940. He began his career at the
 LIEBOWITZ-Jonathan S., Esq. On December 17, 2001. Age 69. Son of the late Sidney and Florence Liebowitz. Cornell University ILR, BS 1954; JD Columbia University 1959. Member N.Y. Bar Association, U.S. Supreme Court, U.S. Court of Appeals and District Court. Served in the U.S. Army. Was an A
 MANELLA-Daniel J. Former Chairman and CEO, Faberge Elizabeth Arden. Former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Faberge Elizabeth Arden, Inc. died peacefully Monday evening at the home of his daughter after an extended illness. He was 76. Born in Chicago, IL. on June 23, 192
 MONTGOMERY-Royal M., M.D. of Silver Springs, MD on Friday, December 14, 2001. He was preceded in death by his wife of sixtythree years Maxine Cooley Montgomery and daughter Diane Greene. An eminent dermatologist with a practice in Manhattan for more than fifty years, he moved from Forest Hi
 O'BRIEN-Eleanor E. December 18, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Jack O'Brien (former Senior Editor of Newsweek Magazine). Loving mother of John and his wife Bea Jae, James and his wife Trang, David and his wife Carol, Peter and his wife Carol, Eleanor Carsey and her husband Kevin, Kerry and 
 SEBALD-W.G. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of novelist W.G. Sebald. On October 15, 2001, Sebald graced the stage of the Unterberg Poetry Center, reading from his novel, ''Austerlitz''. The Y honors Sebald's stylistic bravery and depictions of life in the aftermath of Wo
 WILINSKY-Elizabeth Brown. December 17, 2001, at home, after a long illness. Survived by husband, Michael Rafferty; parents, Mary and Gene Wilinsky; older brother, John Wilinsky and his wife, Cindy, and daughters, Charlotte and Anna; younger brother, Thomas Wilinsky and his partner, Daniel L
 WOLFSON-Nathaniel, DDS. Died after nearly 102 years of a happy and healthy life. Husband of the late Beatrice. Father of Estarose Wolfson and Manfred Mohr, Milton Wolfson and Patty Burrows. Grandfather of Jody and Edward, Tracy and Scott, Jessica, Jordan. Great-grandfather of Maximiliana, H
 Peter Elias, a theorist in the field of information and computer science, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 78. The cause was Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a nervous system disorder, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a senior lectu
 Rufus Thomas, the jovial patriarch of Memphis soul, who billed himself as the ''world's oldest teenager,'' died on Saturday at 84. He died at St. Francis Hospital in Memphis after a short illness, said Marcy Vaughn Perkins, his niece. As a singer, songwriter, talent scout, d
 Harrison Mosher Hayford, a leading expert on Herman Melville, died on Dec. 10 in Evanston, Ill. He was 85. A professor of English at Northwestern University for 43 years, he was general editor of the multivolume Northwestern-Newberry edition of ''The Writings of Herman Melville,'' p
 José Fajardo, a Cuban flutist who was one of the most influential bandleaders in Latin music, died on Dec. 11 in Jersey City. He was 82 and lived in West New York, N.J. The cause of death was an aneurysm, said his wife, Miriam. Mr. Fajardo greatly expanded the audience for 
 Dr. Leonard T. Kurland, a neurologist who mined the science of epidemiology for techniques that led to new thinking about diseases in his field and others, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Rochester, Minn. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Kurland, a
 ANDREWS-Martin. 62, filmmaker, lighting designer and gaffer, died at home in Hoboken, NJ, last Friday of cancer. Location technical director on ''Woodstock,'' Marty most recently lit the Christmas scenes in ''Riding in Cars With Boys.'' Born in NYC, he crewed for Pomfret School and the Univ
 BARRIE-William H. Passed away Dec. 19, 2001, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Kew Gardens. Loving husband of Lee to whom he was married 56 years. A pioneer in the beauty industry. Adored father of Ellen Elias and Marsha and David Schwarz. Cherished grandfather of Benjamin and Nina Elias, Nico
 BIRNBAUM-Sol. In his 98th year. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Devoted father of Philip and Marilyn, and Irwin and Arlene. Cherished grandfather of Gail and Michael, Eric and Lisa, Leslie and Doug, Amy and Andy, and the late Bruce. Loving great-grandfather of ten. Services at ''Boulevard
 BRUSH-David. The Board of Directors and staff at Waveny Care Center note with profound sorrow the loss of founder and first Board President David Brush. David's vision, leadership, and dedication to the Care Center throughout its 26year history will always be remembered. We extend our deepe
 DAMOTA-Manuel J. Of Valley Stream. Tragically on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Cherished son of Maria Ferreira. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Christopher, David and Justin. Loving brother of Joao, Samy, Manuela, Carmelita, Celina, Carolina and Cecilia. I'll a
 GRACIE-Charles Douglas. Died on December 4, 2001, at age 90. Mr. Gracie was an owner of Charles R. Gracie & Sons, dealers in hand-painted Chinese wallpapers and oriental art and antiques. He is survived by a daughter, Carol, a son Brian, grandchildren Jonathan and Geoff Gottlieb, Michael an
 GRESSENS-Robert. Former president of GTE International, died at his home in Atherton, California on Thursday, December 13. Mr. Gressens, who was 76, had been suffering from late term pulmonary disease. He died peacefully, surrounded by his family. Survivors include his wife, Jeanne; his ste
 HUMPHREYS-George H., M.D. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the loss of our beloved and esteemed former Director and Chairman, and Valentine Mott Professor, Dr. George H. Humphreys, who died December 18, 2001. He was appointed Chairman in 1946, at age 43, and over a span 
 LEVIN-Irving T. Loving husband of Martha and devoted father of Seth. Father-in-law of Amy Feinstein. After demobilization from U.S. Army he was named director of the United Seamen's Service Clubs for Merchant Marine in New York, Honolulu and Tokyo. Later he was president of Gessler Publishi
 LIEBOWITZ-Jonathan S. National Academy of Arbitrators, NY Region, mourns the passing of our longtime colleague and friend and expresses heartfelt sympathy to his wife Helen and family. Mattye Gandel, Chair       
 PICCIONE-Frank. We share the sorrow of our partner, Anthony M. Piccione, on the passing of his father, Frank Piccione, who loved life and family deeply and faced his long illness with dignity and a steadfast will to live. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Anthony, his mother Rachel, his
 RIFKIN-Boris, December 18, 2001. Cherished husband of Ruth and the late Lillian. Beloved father of Steven and Valerie Rifkin and Janie and Robert Fisher. Adored grandfather of Cari and Andrew Schwartz, Julie and Wayne Feder and Todd Fisher. Proud greatgrandfather of Joseph, Reuben and Leah 
 RILEY-Richard L., M.D. On December 17, 2001 in Petersham, MA, age 90. Beloved husband of Barbara Ellis. Devoted father of Molly, Susan and Dick. Loving grandfather of Lissa and Hannah. Dr. Riley's first wife, Polly, predeceased him in 1999. Dr. Riley graduated from Philips Exeter Academy, H
 SALPETER-Burton F. M.D. died Tuesday, December 18, after 58 years of family practice. Graduate of Far Rockaway High School, University of Virginia and Georgetown Medical School; he served as Director of Family Practice at Peninsula Hospital Center. Accomplishments ranged from tennis junior 
 WEBER-Saul. Born October 10, 1915 in Hartford, CT. Died on December 16, 2001 in Hartford, CT. Husband of the late Caroline Fox Weber for 50 years, he is survived by his wife Ziona Kaplan Weber of West Hartford, CT, his daughter Nancy Weber and son-in-law Robert Cahn of New York City, his so
 WEMPLE-John, 79. Of Bridgewater, NJ, died at his home on December 16 after a long illness. He was the son of the late William Lester Wemple and Dorothy Gunnells Wemple. He is survived by brothers William Wemple of Charlottesville, VA and Francis Holland Wemple of Plandome, NY and eleven nie
 ZELENSKY-Samuel, 92. Of New York, NY, passed away on Dec. 19, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Jewel Zelensky, son of Max and Eva Zelensky. He is survived by loving brother, Arnold Allen (Phyllis) & many nieces, nephews, great-nieces, great-nephews, god children and friends. Dear brother t
 Samuel Meyers, a labor activist and longtime president of a union local representing automobile workers in the New York area, died at 83 last Saturday in Deerfield Beach, Fla., where he had a winter home. He was a resident of Marine Park, Brooklyn. The cause was cardiac arrest, his 
 Conte Candoli, a jazz trumpeter who gained national renown as a musical mainstay of the ''Tonight'' show in the Johnny Carson era, died last Friday in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Bermuda Dunes, Calif. The cause was cancer, his family said. Born Secondo Candoli
 Léopold Sédar Senghor, a poet, professor, philosopher and statesman who became the first president of Senegal when it gained independence from France, died yesterday at his home in Normandy. Mr. Senghor, one of the central figures in the political upheaval that led to freedom for France's
 BIRNBAUM-Sol. In his 98th year. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Devoted father of Philip and Marilyn, and Irwin and Arlene. Cherished grandfather of Gail and Michael, Eric and Lisa, Leslie and Doug, Amy and Andy, and the late Bruce. Loving great-grandfather of ten. Services at ''Boulevard
 CARTIER-William B, of Manhattan, NY, formerly of Dover, Mass. Died December 16 at the age of 32 while skiing in Alta, Utah. Former Vice President of Prudential Securities. Beloved son of William Lambert Cartier, of Newport, RI, and Marie ''Pooh'' Bannard Lockwood of Dover, Mass. Step-son to
 DAMOTA-Manuel J. Of Valley Stream. Tragically on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Cherished son of Maria Ferreira. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Christopher, David and Justin. Loving brother of Joao, Samy, Manuela, Carmelita, Celina, Carolina and Cecilia. I'll a
 GUTERMAN-Saul. Young Israel of Forest Hills mourns the passing of its member, Saul Guterman. May the Almighty console his family together with all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 HENDRICKSON-Edwin F. Died on December 18, 2001 at his home in Glen Head, NY with his family at his bedside. Cause of death was pancreatic cancer. Born on December 29, 1910 in the then farming community of Bridgehampton, NY, to Howard and Edith (nee Rogers) Hendrickson. He attended public sc
 HUMPHREYS-George H., II, M.D. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. George H. Humphreys II. From 1946 to 1969, Dr. Humphreys was Attending Surgeon and Director of the
 LEITNER-David M. Of Ridgefield, CT. December 16, 2001. Interior Designer & Personal Property Appraiser. Graduate of Parson School of Design. Survived by his life partner, Kenneth Leabman. Funeral services and burial were conducted on Thursday. Memorials in David's memory may be made to a ch
 LEVIN-Irving T. Loving husband of Martha and devoted father of Seth. Father-in-law of Amy Feinstein. After demobilization from U.S. Army he was named director of the United Seamen's Service Clubs for Merchant Marine in New York, Honolulu and Tokyo. Later he was president of Gessler Publishi
 LEVINE-Leonard. After a very long and courageous battle our dear friend and associate Lenny was taken from us on Wednesday, December 19. His gentle nature and loving kindness will always be cherished as his gift to all of us. Our condolences to his wife Mimi, his children Andrea, Debra (Rob
 McGOVERN-Joseph W., 92. On December 19, 2001. The only son of Philip and Jane Fahy McGovern. Predeceased by his dear wife Marie, sons Philip and Joseph Raymond. Survived by one daughter Marie Therese Melillo, three sons Raymond, Joseph and Lawrence, twenty two grandchildren and twelve great
 PICCIONE-Frank. We share the sorrow of our partner, Anthony M. Piccione, on the passing of his father, Frank Piccione, who loved life and family deeply and faced his long illness with dignity and a steadfast will to live. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Anthony, his mother Rachel, his
 RIDGE-Curtis Cordell, 46. Passed away suddenly on December 18. Survived by loving wife, Anthousa, and son, Martin Alexander. He is also survived by his parents, uncle, brothers and family. We'll miss him sorely. Services Saturday, 11AM, Sunset Chapels, Manhasset.       
 ROME-Robert C. III, Wednesday, December 12, 2001. Beloved husband of Betty Bagley Rome. Loving father of his children Wendy Rome Courtney of Suffern, NY; Matthew Rome of Clifton Park, NY and Michael Rome of White Plains, NY. Fondly remembered by his nieces and nephew. Memorial services Satu
 SALPETER-Burton F., MD. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and entire staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Burton F. Salpeter, MD, Benefactor, past President of the Medical Board and Medical Staff member for over fifty years. Sincere co
 SCHWALBERG-Sam, 76. Died December 19, 2001. Sam was very much loved by family and friends. He is survived by his loving wife Rita, son Alan, daughter Janet, son-in-law Michael and Lena, Jacob and Nathan his grandchildren. Services at I.J. Morris, Hempstead, Long Island, 10:30AM.       
 SULLIVAN - John J. Retired NYPD, Dean and Professor John Jay College and Professor at Mercy College. Survived by his wife Theresa (nee Chambers), five beautiful children, John L., Marybeth, Tim, Matt and Eileen. Daughters-in-law (nee Marybeth Robertson and Karen Comerford. Dear grandchildre
 WETZEL-Raymond Adolph ''Always Seeking Answers'' Ray died on Wednesday November 21, 2001. Ray was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY. He was a US Navy Veteran serving on the USS Johnston II. Mr. Wetzel received his Bachelor's Degree in Psychology at Brooklyn College, and upon receiving his Gra
 Dick Schaap, the affable and ubiquitous journalist who introduced an 18-year-old Cassius Clay to Harlem, coined the term Fun City for New York and embodied the role of the ''as told to'' writer of autobiographies, including his own, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.       
 H. Peter Kriendler, who helped transform ''21'' from a speakeasy into one of Manhattan's most beloved and enduring restaurants, and for decades was its face, voice and ambassador, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 96 years old. . Mr. Kriendler, k
 Joseph Washington McGovern, whose long record of public service included six years as chancellor of the state Board of Regents, died Wednesday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Westchester. He was 92 and lived in Irvington, N.Y. Mr. McGovern, a New York lawyer who specialized in real esta
 KRIENDLER-H. Peter. In sorrow, Congegration Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, H. Peter Kriendler. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who 
 LEHMAN-Kate (nee Hoffman). Beloved wife of the late William; devoted mother of Edward; dearest mother-in-law of Ethna; cherished grandmother of Robert and his wife Jennifer; loving aunt of Ernest Loeb, Paul Loeb, Guenter Eder, the late Johanna Loeb, and Claire Kay. Reposing at Greenwich Vil
 LEVINE-Leonard. After a very long and courageous battle our dear friend and associate Lenny was taken from us on Wednesday, December 19. His gentle nature and loving kindness will always be cherished as his gift to all of us. Our condolences to his wife Mimi, his children Andrea, Debra (Rob
 McGOVERN-Joseph W., 92. On December 19, 2001. The only son of Philip and Jane Fahy McGovern. Predeceased by his dear wife Marie, sons Philip and Joseph Raymond. Survived by one daughter Marie Therese Melillo, three sons Raymond, Joseph and Lawrence, twenty two grandchildren and twelve great
 SPRITZER-David Joseph, Rabbi. Age 61. Died in Hemlock Farms, Lords Valley, PA, December 21, 2001, of cancer. Rabbi Spritzer was a beloved husband, father and grandfather. He leaves behind six children, seven grandchildren, and his devoted wife Cynthia Winograd Spritzer. Rabbi Spritzer was b
 STILLMAN-Jean. The Board and Staff of The Project Return Foundation extends its deepest sympathies to Marshall Goldberg, our Chairman Emeritus, and his family on the loss of his beloved sister, Jean. Our thoughts are with them at this most difficult time. Dr. Judith D. Wallach Chairperson, 
 Dan DeCarlo, a top cartoonist for Archie Comics for more than 40 years and a creator of the characters Josie and the Pussycats and Sabrina the teenage witch, died on Tuesday in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82, and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Josie. 
 ARONSON-Norman, 79. Of Palm City, passed away December 18, 2001 at his residence. Born in Seneca Falls, New York, he has resided in Palm City the past 20 years, moving here from his birthplace. He was the owner of Seneca Clothing Company, in Seneca Falls, NY for 35 years before retiring. He
 BRAUER-Herbert J., Jr. Of Setauket, (formerly of Kings Park) suddenly of Diabetes-related complications at the age of 37. A man of his convictions, a highly intelligent, very professional and extremely competent attorney; a graduate of Colgate University, Phi Beta Kappa, and New York Univer
 CARTIER-William B, of Manhattan, NY, formerly of Dover, Mass. Died December 16 at the age of 32 while skiing in Alta, Utah. Former First Vice President of Prudential Securities. Beloved son of William Lambert Cartier, of Newport, RI, and Marie ''Pooh'' Bannard Lockwood of Dover, Mass. Step-
 FARKAS-Michael J. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and associate Michael J. Farkas. His brilliance and personality would light up a room. He remains affectionately in our hearts. Our sympathy to his beloved wife Marcia and sweet daughter Jamie. Arthur Yorkes & Company LLP       
 GILBERT-Evan S. December 21, 2001, age 40. Beloved son of Thomas and the late Rosann Gilbert. Loving brother of Clifford Gilbert. Devoted stepson of Marjorie Gilbert and stepbrother of Wendy Tayer, William Gorlin and Douglas Gorlin. He was President of the golf division of Gilbert Hosiery. 
 GRAHAM-Marshall, 77. Died on Sunday, Dec. 16, 2001, at his home in Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by his wife, Alda Graham, his daughter Andrea Graham and his sister Evelyn Levitan.       
 ISAACS-Abraham. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre, mourns the lose of its esteemed member Abraham Isaacs and extends heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 KRIENDLER-H. Peter. On December 21, 2001, at age 96. Beloved husband of the late Jeannette Kriendler. Survived by many loving nieces, nephews and friends. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday, December 23rd, 7-9PM. Funeral services at Temple Emanu-El, 
 LEIB-Rabbi Samuel. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Dr. Martin Leib, upon the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 MAGOWAN-Stephen Charles. On December 20, 2001, from complications of kidney cancer. Born in New York City on May 7, 1944, the fourth son of Robert Anderson Magowan and Doris Merrill Magowan. Educated at St. Bernard's School, St. Mark's School and Yale. Playwright, actor, pianist, Stephen Ma
 McGOVERN-Joseph W. of Irvington. Dies at 92: Former Chancellor of the Board of Regents. Mr. McGovern made a peaceful crossing into new life on December 19 in Mount Vernon Hospital. He was elected to the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York in 1961 and served on Board 
 McSHERRY-Charles K., M.D. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Charles K. McSherry, Clinical Professor of Surgery Emeritus and Attending Surgeon. A graduate of Cornell University Medical College, who completed his training in surger
 MEYERS-Samuel. Died peacefully on December 15, 2001, at the age of 83. A fearless trade union organizer, a skillful union president, committed to the struggle for economic and racial justice. For 37 years, as president of UAW Local 259, he championed progressive social unionism, not only ga
 PERRY-Albert Rowland. Died peacefully on December 17, 2001 in Sarasota, Florida, following a long illness. Born in Toledo, Ohio, he had resided in Riverdale, Bronx, New York since 1951. Mr. Perry was an attorney-at-law and retired as Senior Vice PresidentInternational of Precision Valve Cor
 ROSENBERG-Goldy. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our revered former Associate Rabbi, Rabbi Moshe Rosenberg and his entire family upon the loss of their mother and grandmother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi 
 SCHAAP-Dick. Journalist and sportscaster died Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He is survived by his wife Trish, his six children Renee, Michelle, Jeremy, Joanna, Kari and David and five grandchildren. Although remembered by the public for his journalism and broadcast career, his family will 
 VOELKER-Edward R. On December 19, 2001. Beloved husband of Deborah; devoted son of Helen; father of Michael, Kelley and Chris; loving step-father of Andrew, Michael and Bradley; cherished grandfather of Jyllian and Ethan. Hopefully Ed is at peace. He will be walking among the angels. You we
 WAGNER-Edward Willett, 77. Of Lexington, MA. passed away on December 7 of complications from Alzheimer's disease. He was a professor of Korean Studies at Harvard University and founder of the Korea Institute. He is survived by his wife, Namhi Kim Wagner, a brother John Wagner, two sons from
 WANNING - Thomas Edwards. Died December 20, 2001, at Lenox Hill Hospital. Born February 18, 1918, in Shelton, CT. Reader and denizen of the old Cedar Bar. Mourned by his five nieces and nephews, his faithful friend Milton Trexler and his longtime caregiver Gloria Nelson. Services Sunday, De
 ZUTKOFF-Harvey F. Leaves behind his adored wife Pauline, his mother Anna, sister Sandra DeBonis, nieces Rhonni Vezquez, Lisa DeBonis and Nanci Iovino. Passed away on December 21, 2001. Funeral services Monday, December 24, 2001, 11:45 AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76 St.       
 C. Carwood Lipton, who was among the central figures in ''Band of Brothers,'' the book and television miniseries recounting the experiences of a World War II paratroop company, died on Dec. 16 at a hospital in Pinehurst, N.C. Mr. Lipton, of Southern Pines, N.C., was 81. The cause wa
 Foster Brooks, a comedian whose act as a lovable drunk made him a fixture on television and Las Vegas stages, died on Thursday at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Brooks, with silver hair and a beard, was a master at appearing as someone who had had too many cocktails and w
 John Guedel, a radio producer whose shrewd sense of public taste -- and not a little silliness -- enabled him to act as a midwife at television's birth and then as one of the new medium's most prominent nannies, died on Dec. 14 in Los Angeles. He was 88. Mr. Guedel produced shows li
 AUTUORI-Norma (nee Scuderi), 96, of Ridgefield, CT. December 22, 2001. Former Brooklyn and Glendale resident and retired NYC public school educator. Wife of the late Giovanni Autuori, M.D. Survived by a son, Michael and his wife Christel of Ridgefield, CT, and two grandchildren, Alisa Autuo
 CSEPREGHY-Lewis (Lajos). On December 21, 2001, at age 92. Beloved husband of Magda. Also survived by his nieces and nephews in Budapest, Hungary, and friends around the world.       
 DAVIS-Robert Edward. Age 68, on December 22, 2001. A graduate of Loomis-Chaffee School, Yale (B.A.) and Temple (Ph.D.), Bob pitched in the major leagues for the Kansas City Athletics in 1958 and 1960 before starting a career as a human resource executive and organization consultant. Beloved
 GARDNER-David A. Real estate developer, venture capitalist and philanthropist, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54. Born in Cleveland, OH, David Gardner received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1969 and an MBA from Harvard University in 1971. He began his c
 GILBERT-Evan S. December 21, 2001, age 40. Beloved son of Thomas and the late Rosann Gilbert. Loving brother of Clifford Gilbert. Devoted stepson of Marjorie Gilbert and stepbrother of Wendy Tayer, William Gorlin and Douglas Gorlin. He was President of the golf division of Gilbert Hosiery. 
 GOTTESMAN-Aaron. Of Woodbury, NY, on Saturday, December 22, 2001. Beloved husband of Lorayne. Devoted father of Stuart and his wife Carmen, David and his wife Laura, Susan and her husband Jeffrey. Adored grandfather of Katherine, Jordan, Evan, Trevor, Cara, and Bryan. Beloved brother of Nat
 HAPPEL-John. 93, on December 19, 2001. Noted Chemical Engineer, he served as Chairman of the Chemical Engineering Department at NYU and was Adjunct Professor at Columbia University. Dr. Happel held 46 patents. An avid hiker, he was a summer resident of Lake Placid, NY, for over 50 years. Su
 HERMANN-Edward. (Died December 23, 2001). Loving husband of Meredith, brother of Donald and Arthur, uncle of Lisa, Michael, John, Ming, Stephanie, and Javier. He will be cremated and a memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 KOTT-Jan. A writer, died on December 22, 2001 at the age of 87, in Santa Monica, CA. His daughter, son and grandchildren mourn his loss.       
 KRIENDLER-H. Peter. On December 21, 2001, at age 96. Beloved husband of the late Jeannette Kriendler. Survived by many loving nieces, nephews and friends. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday, December 23rd, 7-9PM. Funeral services at Temple Emanu-El, 
 MAGOWAN-Stephen Charles. On December 20, 2001, from complications of kidney cancer. Born in New York City on May 7, 1944, the fourth son of Robert Anderson Magowan and Doris Merrill Magowan. Educated at St. Bernard's School, St. Mark's School and Yale. Playwright, actor, pianist, Stephen Ma
 McCOOEY-Herbert J. Of Jupiter, FL, Westhampton Beach, NY, and formerly of Manhasset, NY, on December 21, 2001. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on July 6, 1926, he was the son of Herbert and Elizabeth (Larney) McCooey. Grandson of the late John H. McCooey, political leader of Brooklyn for twenty-five 
 SCHAAP-Dick. The ALS Association, Greater New York Chapter, mourns the loss of our very good friend and supporter. He was a tireless and generous worker on behalf of our organization in the fight against Lou Gehrig's disease, and one of the founding partners in our Lou Gehrig Sports Awards 
 STILLMAN-Jean. The Board and Staff of The Project Return Foundation extends its deepest sympathies to Marshall Goldberg, our Chairman Emeritus, and his family on the loss of his beloved sister, Jean. Our thoughts are with them at this most difficult time. Dr. Judith D. Wallach Chairperson, 
 ZUTKOFF-Harvey. The Epstein family and the office employees of Alden Leeds Inc. and Jet Line Products are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our friend and longtime accountant, Harvey Zutkoff. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his wife Pauline and his extended family. He will be so
 Robert Cronbach, a sculptor and medal artist, died Wednesday in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico, where he had lived for several years. He was 93. Over his nearly seven-decade career, Mr. Cronbach worked in styles both representational and abstract and specialized in public commissions
 Ardito Desio, an inveterate explorer who in 1954 meticulously organized the first ascent of K2, the world's second highest mountain, died on Dec. 12 in Rome. He was 104. A geologist, Professor Desio led scientific expeditions well into his 90's, visiting the slopes of Mount Everest,
 Edwin F. Russell, a former newspaper publisher who joined the Royal Navy to fight Germany before the United States entered World War II, died Saturday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. Mr. Russell, 87, was the chairman of The Patriot-News Company and the former publisher of The Harris
 Dr. Franco Dino Rasetti, who worked with the Nobel laureate Enrico Fermi and the select team of Italian scientists that discovered one of the key processes in nuclear reactions, died on Dec. 5 at a retirement home in Belgium. He was 100. The discovery, made in a laboratory at the Un
 GARDNER-David A. The Board, Officers and Staff of the Muscular Dystrophy Association mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague who served on MDA's board since 1994. His tireless support of the Association played a significant role in the rapid advancement of research seeking cures for
 GOMER-Sidney. Died peacefully in his home in Santa Monica, California at age 85. Predeceased by his beloved wife Rosalyn in 1993. He is survived by sons Gary, and Steven, his grandchildren Sarah and Jesse, as well as sister Dorothy Saks and his brothers Bob and Ed. Funeral services at Sharo
 GOTTESMAN-Aaron. Of Woodbury, NY, on Saturday, December 22, 2001. Beloved husband of Lorayne. Devoted father of Stuart and his wife Carmen, David and his wife Laura, Susan and her husband Jeffrey. Adored grandfather of Katherine, Jordan, Evan, Trevor, Cara, and Bryan. Beloved brother of Nat
 LEIB - Samuel, Rabbi. S/A/R Academy mourns the loss of the beloved father of our longtime Trustee, Dr. Martin Leib. May the entire family find comfort in his memory. Jack C. Bendheim, President       
 MAGOWAN-Stephen Charles. On December 20, 2001, from complications of kidney cancer. Born in New York City on May 7, 1944, the fourth son of Robert Anderson Magowan and Doris Merrill Magowan. Educated at St. Bernard's School, St. Mark's School and Yale. Playwright, actor, pianist, Stephen Ma
 McCOOEY-Herbert J. Of Jupiter, FL, Westhampton Beach, NY, and formerly of Manhasset, NY, on December 21, 2001. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on July 6, 1926, he was the son of Herbert and Elizabeth (Larney) McCooey. Grandson of the late John H. McCooey, political leader of Brooklyn for twenty-five 
 Agha Shahid Ali, a Kashmiri-American poet who was a finalist for the 2001 National Book Award in Poetry, died on Dec. 8 at his brother's home in Amherst, Mass., where he was staying. He was 52 and had lived in Brooklyn. The cause was brain cancer, the publishing house W. W. Norton a
 Edward Willett Wagner, a professor of Korean studies at Harvard who founded its Korea Institute in 1981, died in Concord, Mass. on Dec. 7. He was 77 and lived in Lexington, Mass. He had Alzheimer's disease, The Boston Globe said. Professor Wagner, who retired in 1993, played
 Melvyn R. Paisley, a former top Navy official and a fighter ace who was involved in a military procurement scandal in the 1980's that involved bribery, bid rigging and insider advice, died on Dec. 19. He was 77 and lived in McLean, Va. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Vicki.    
 Monteria Ivey, who combined urban brashness with a sensitive ear for the inflections of real people to produce giggles and guffaws for live audiences, radio listeners and book readers, died on Dec. 13 in Manhattan. He was 41 and lived in Harlem. Stephan Dweck, who was his co-host on
 DAVIS-Robert Edward. Age 68, on December 22, 2001. A graduate of Loomis-Chaffee School, Yale (B.A.) and Temple (Ph.D.), Bob pitched in the major leagues for the Kansas City Athletics in 1958 and 1960 before starting a career as a human resource executive and organization consultant. Beloved
 EVANS-John Arthur, M.D., FACR, Emeritus Professor of Radiology, Radiologist-in-Chief and Chairman of the Department (1952-1976), died on December 24, 2001 at the age of 92. Beloved husband of Anne Wilson Evans. Father of Linda Franklin, Jane Carreyrou, John T. Evans, Susan Evans Sterling. G
 GARDNER-David A. The Board, Officers and Staff of the Muscular Dystrophy Association mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague who served on MDA's board since 1994. His tireless support of the Association played a significant role in the rapid advancement of research seeking cures for
 GRAHAM-Edward. The Larchmont Temple community records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished Cantor Emeritus and dear friend Edward Graham. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May the noble qualities of his life endure forever in the hearts of those who love
 LEBOW-Sylvan, December 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth for 69 years, loving father of Mark and his wife Patricia E. Harris and Joy and her husband Dr. William Cohen. Proud grandfather of Michael, Lauren, Jeffrey and Alexandra. Loyal brother of Alan and Stanleigh. He was a dedicated advoca
 MAGOWAN-Stephen Charles. On December 20, 2001, from complications of kidney cancer. Born in New York City on May 7, 1944, the fourth son of Robert Anderson Magowan and Doris Merrill Magowan. Educated at St. Bernard's School, St. Mark's School and Yale. Playwright, actor, pianist, Stephen Ma
 McCOOEY-Herbert J. Of Jupiter, FL, Westhampton Beach, NY, and formerly of Manhasset, NY, on December 21, 2001. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on July 6, 1926, he was the son of Herbert and Elizabeth (Larney) McCooey. Grandson of the late John H. McCooey, political leader of Brooklyn for twenty-five 
 NEWBERGER-Jesse M., 78. Of Palm Beach Gardens, FL., formerly of Great Neck, N.Y., on December 22, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Phyllis. Devoted father of the late Bobbie and the late Steve. Survived by his loving daughter Ronnie and son-in-law Chuck Lavine of Glen Cove, N.Y. and by che
 RUSSELL-Edwin F., 87. Of New York, died peacefully December 22, at his home in Florida. He had a life-long career in journalism with Newhouse Newspapers. He was president of Metrosuburbia Inc. and former publisher of the Harrisburg Patriot-News and ''Vogue'' magazine. Admired and beloved hu
 SLOAN-Howard R., age 64, Dec. 24, 2001. Physician, biochemical geneticist, researcher, teacher. Survived by Elaine, wife of 41 years; sons Michael, Stephen, Eric, and their wives Maria, Tracey, and Dominique; grandchildren, Sarah, Soledad, and Sacha; sisters, Lois Fenton and Nancy Sorkin. B
 STERNBERGH-Van R.H., 57. Of Greenwich, Nantucket and Key Largo, on Dec. 21, 2001. He is survived by his wife, Robin Wigger Sternbergh; son, Van Sternbergh, and sister, Karibel Sternbergh Fitch. Memorial services will be held on December 27th at 3 PM at St. Barnabas, 954 Lake Avenue in Green
 William Avery Crawford, an expert on Communist Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union who was United States ambassador to Romania and had important posts in the cold war, died on Dec. 14 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 86. A career Foreign Service officer, Mr. Crawford went to Roma
 Harvey Martin, the Dallas Cowboys star defensive end who was co-winner of the most valuable player award in the 1978 Super Bowl, died Monday at Baylor Medical Center in Grapevine, Tex. He was 51. The cause was pancreatic cancer, Maureen Porter, a spokeswoman for the medical center, 
 BIRNBACH-Ruth. The Department of Anesthesiology of St. Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital Center extend heartfelt condolences to Dr. David Birnbach and his family on the death of their mother. Daniel M. Thys, MD, Chairman Department of Anesthesiology St. Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital Center       
 GARDNER-David A. The Board, Officers and Staff of the Muscular Dystrophy Association mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague who served on MDA's board since 1994. His tireless support of the Association played a significant role in the rapid advancement of research seeking cures for
 GUILD-Irwin C. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irwin C. Guild. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Bernice and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary
 KAHN-Ernst. Heartfelt condolences to Walter and Grace Kahn, Gold Founders, on the loss of his beloved brother. The brothers shared respect for the highest values of Jewish tradition and ethics. May Walter and the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. C
 LEBOW-Sylvan, December 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth for 69 years, loving father of Mark and his wife Patricia E. Harris and Joy and her husband Dr. William Cohen. Proud grandfather of Michael, Lauren, Jeffrey and Alexandra. Loyal brother of Alan and Stanleigh. He was a dedicated advoca
 MAGOWAN-Stephen Charles. On December 20, 2001, from complications of kidney cancer. Born in New York City on May 7, 1944, the fourth son of Robert Anderson Magowan and Doris Merrill Magowan. Educated at St. Bernard's School, St. Mark's School and Yale. Playwright, actor, pianist, Stephen Ma
 MERAGE-Andre. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., expresses its sorrow at the passing of Andre Merage, cherished husband of Katherine Merage. Andre was the beloved father of Paul and Elisabeth, Louise, Camron & Carrol, David and Laura and Lin; beloved grandfather of
 ROSENBLUM-Idek. Of Fort Lee, NJ. Beloved husband of Celina (nee Spira), devoted father of Melvin Rosenblum, Harry Rosenblum, M.D., and Annette Taffet. Dear brother of Helen Reich and Fela Rosenthal, loving grandfather of Rena, Jeffrey, Noah, Ethan, and Rachel Rosenblum, Renee and Joshua Taf
 SPALTEN-Robert. Of Manhattan, N.Y. Died Monday, December 24, 2001 at the age of 80, at home. Beloved husband and parent, prominent dental surgeon and developer of the Omnicare Dental Implant Systems. He conducted research with Guggenheim Institute for Dental Research and Mount Sinai Hospita
 STERNBERGH-Van R.H., 57. Of Greenwich, Nantucket and Key Largo, on Dec. 21, 2001. He is survived by his wife, Robin Wigger Sternbergh; son, Van Sternbergh, and sister, Caribel Sternbergh Fitch. Memorial services will be held on December 27th at 3 PM at St. Barnabas, 954 Lake Avenue in Green
 Edward Downes, the musicologist, lecturer, professor and critic, best known as the longtime host of the ''Texaco Opera Quiz'' heard during  the live Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts, died on Wednesday in his Manhattan home. He was 90. The opera quiz, in which panels of three oper
 Howard M. Squadron, who made himself one of the city's powerful lawyers by mixing an active law practice with liberal politics, support for the arts, a keen sense of public relations and ties to influential clients like Rupert Murdoch, died Wednesday night at his home in Riverdale, the Bron
 LEBOW-Sylvan, December 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth for 69 years, loving father of Mark and his wife Patricia E. Harris and Joy and her husband Dr. William Cohen. Proud grandfather of Michael, Lauren, Jeffrey and Alexandra. Loyal brother of Alan and Stanleigh. He was a dedicated advoca
 ORLINS-Martin Garson. On December 27th, 2001. Beloved husband of Marie. Loving father of David, Stephen and Phyllis and father-in-law of Bonnie and Wayne. Cherished grandfather of Andrew, Matthew, Daniel, Eliza, Joanna, Sabrina, Emily, Remy and Zachary. Dearest brother of Gloria. Services o
 SOLLANO-Gasper. Of Leisure Glen, Ridge, New York, on Dec. 27, 2001 in his 76th year. Beloved husband of Carmela. Loving father of Richard, Josephine, & Rosemarie. Dear brother of Ramona Ferraro and the late Joseph. Friends may call at the Casimir Funeral Home, 523 Route 112, Port Jefferson 
 SQUADRON-Howard M. The Board of Trustees and staff of City Center express great sadness at the passing of our Chairman of 23 years-the ''father'' of City Center. His love for this theater, its many and diverse artists and the staff and the audiences who support them was unsurpassed and cont
 SUCHMANN-William F. On December 23, 2001 in auto accident. Retiring in 1984 after 25 years at Kenyon and Eckhardt Inc, moved to VT and became involved in local politics and was elected to two terms in the state legislature, ending in 2000. He was serving on several community boards involvin
 WEINER-Sam S. Yonkers attorney; a dear and devoted friend. He will be greatly missed. Seil Goodman       
 Dr. George Hoppin Humphreys II, who pioneered pediatric and chest surgery procedures and shepherded the surgical units at Columbia University through two decades of robust growth, died on Dec. 18 at his home in West Dover, Vt. He was 98. Dr. Humphreys retired in 1969 after 23 years 
 Edward G. Jordan, who helped to lift the remnants of several railroad freight lines out of bankruptcy as the first chairman and chief executive of Conrail, died on Wednesday at his vacation home in Bend, Ore. He was 72. Mr. Jordan, who also had a home in the San Francisco area, had 
 Lance Loud, the eldest son in a Santa Barbara, Calif., family that took on unwanted fame in a ground-breaking 1973 public television documentary, ''An American Family,'' died on Dec. 22 at a hospice in Los Angeles. He was 50. The cause was complications from hepatitis C, his family 
 Msgr. Bryan Oliver Walsh, who played a crucial role in Operation Pedro Pan, which conveyed 14,000 Cuban children to Florida early in the 1960's, died on Dec. 20 in a Miami hospital. He was 71 and had long been active in the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Miami. The cause was cardiac 
 Msgr. Mattia Pei Shangde, a Catholic priest imprisoned for his loyalty to the pope, died of kidney failure on Monday at a hospital in Zhangjiakou, a city near Beijing, the Vatican said. He was 83. Considered by some to be the unofficial bishop of Beijing, Monsignor Pei had been unde
 BROWN-Patrick J., Capt. FDNY, lost his life September 11, 2001. His soul, spirit and life were honored on November 9, 2001. His remains were recovered December 14, 2001. There will be a visiting on Saturday, December 29, 2001, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. 2-5 an
 GARDNER-David A. In memory of a partner of over 25 years whose courage and perseverance were to be admired and emulated. He will be sorely missed. Raymond J. Greenwald and Mahir A. Reiss GARDNER-David A. We mourn the passing of one of our founders and mentors. His strength of charac
 NOONEY-Edward, J. Passed away December 26, 2001. He is survived by his wife Edna, his sister Gladys, brother-in-law Kennith. Brother of the late George. He is also survived by his sister-in-law Mary, several nephews and nieces. He worked in the newspaper industry for forty-five years, thirt
 NORBITZ-Harold. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and uncle died December 27, 2001 in Huntington Hospital in Huntington, NY. Harold was a longtime resident of West Nyack, NY and had a second home in Delray Beach, FL. Before his retirement he had been an Officer and Director of Nathan's F
 SQUADRON-Howard M. Of New York City. Age 75, December 26, 2001. Much loved husband of Anne. father of Bill, Rich, Diane, Seth and Daniel. Father-in-law of Debra, Theodosia and Tom. Brother of Arthur. Proud grandfather of Laurel, Jake, Elizabeth, Alex, Neill, Justin, Sam and Catherine. A lif
 Dr. Charles Kenneth McSherry, a New York surgeon who pioneered a simpler way to remove gallstones and was a leading researcher into gallstone formation and cancer of the colon, died on Dec. 13 at New York Hospital. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was kidney and
 Hank Soar, an outstanding two-way back for the football Giants, a coach in pro basketball and a longtime American League umpire, died Monday in Pawtucket, R.I. He was 87. In forging a professional sports career that spanned a half-century, Soar scored the winning touchdown in a Nati
 ALBERT-Elihu Dale, 87. Of White Plains. Devoted father and grandfather; 1934 graduate of Wesleyan University, admitted to College of Physicians and Surgeons, but of necessity took a position as research chemist, completed a MA at Columbia, wrote textbooks. During WWII, he had a maritime com
 BARTOVICS-Helen (Foster). Of Kennett Square, PA, December 26th. Wife of Albert Bartovics. Mother of Albert F. and his wife Jeanne G. of Pepperell, MA and William A. and his wife Susan L. of Lincoln, MA. Also survived by five grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. Private services were he
 BERLINER-Arthur I. On December 28. Husband of Ruth. Father of Daniel, Michael and Eric. Grandfather of Brittany and Ashley. He was an attorney and a real estate developer. He will be dearly missed. Services Wednesday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 CAMPANELLA - Vincent R. 1915-2001. Abstract painter Vincent Campanella died December 23. Born and educated in New York City, he worked at Easel Division of the WPA and went on assignment to Wyoming. As a member of the Artists Union, He lobbied for continuation of the WPA and its mission to 
 DOUGLAS-William R. Born December 16, 1914 in Indianapolis, IN. He was a biochemist who lived between New York and Denmark. He passed at 3:05AM on December 26, 2001. He is survived by his wife Marie Salustowicz Douglas, five daughters Yvonne Hicks, Cheri, Marilyn Mazur, Mia and Cathy of Cope
 EVANS-John Arthur, M.D., FACR, Emeritus Professor of Radiology, Radiologist-in-Chief and Chairman of the Department at NY Hospital Cornell University Medical Center (1952-1976), died on December 24, 2001 at the age of 92. Beloved husband of Anne Wilson Evans. Father of Linda Franklin, Jane 
 GARDNER-David A. In memory of a partner of over 25 years whose courage and perseverance were to be admired and emulated. He will be sorely missed. Raymond J. Greenwald and Mahir A. Reiss GARDNER-David A. We mourn the passing of one of our founders and mentors. His strength of charac
 GOLDBERG-Ben. 83, retired President of SEIU Local 3036 (The Taxi Drivers Union), died December 28, 2001, following a brief illness. He was the beloved husband of the late Leah Duhl Goldberg. Father of Lawrence Goldberg and Cindy Wapnitsky. Father-in-law to Bryn Johnson and Ken Wapnitsky. Gr
 GRAHAM-Edward. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of the patriarch of our family, Edward Graham. Dad possessed a unique combination of talents. As Cantor Graham, he served faithfully the Larchmont Temple for over forty years, while as Dr. Graham, the recipient of a Ph.D. in English f
 GROSSBERG-Jack. Died on Friday, December 28, 2001, in Santa Monica, CA. Beloved father of Michael and his wife Efrat, ex-husband of Anita and brother of Mimi Arnold. He was a member of the Producers Guild of America, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, Directors Guild of America fo
 HUGHES-Alfred Steele. On December 9, 2001. Retired Greater New York YMCA employee whose career with the organization spanned 65 years. Steele served for five decades as the Administrative Secretary of the Flatbush YMCA Church League andfor over 40 years as the Brooklyn Board Secretary of th
 KAGGEN-Elias D.O., M.D. Of Brooklyn, NY, died at his home on December 17, 2001, at the age of 85. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia Muntner Kaggen and the late Rissel Kaggen, he is survived by his daughters, Lois Kaggen McCann and Marilyn Kaggen Fried. His grandson, Daniel Kaggen Fried and
 KUREEN-Ezra. Of Great Neck, NY, on December 23, 2001. Born in Baghdad, Iraq on April 12, 1914. A former resident of China, the Phillipines, and Australia. He was fluent in Arabic, Chinese and English. He formed the partnership of Kureen & Cooper Inc. and had a long and exceptional career as
 LAPIDES-Robert E. Chairman of United Aluminum Corporation, one of Connecticut's oldest private corporations, passed away on December 21, after a brief illness. A devoted New Havener, Yale Man and WWII Naval commander, he was 83. Mr. Lapides was born and raised in New Haven and graduated fro
 MOROZ-Paul Joseph. Age 73. Of South Kent, CT. Died Christmas morning, December 25, 2001 at New Milford Hospital, CT. He leaves his wife Norma, five children and eight grandchildren.       
 PEYSER-Howard. We extend our sympathy to his beloved wife Joanne and his adored children Alison and Ross. And to all of his friends and family who will miss him so dearly. His warmth and friendship will be greatly missed. Steven, Wanda, Rachel and Tracy Lockwood       
 PLUMB-Peter Cary. Of South Burlington, VT died peacefully on Sunday, December 23, 2001. Peter was raised in Buffalo NY, the son of Ralph H. Plumb and Sally Getman Plumb. He is survived by his three children and their spouses, Peter Jr. and Susan Plumb of South Burlington, VT, William and Vi
 SELVER-Rene. Passed away at the age of 84 years on December 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Jill. Father of Paul Selver and Elsbeth Haladay and grandfather of Jesse and Eden Haladay and Adam, Max and Katelyn Selver. He served his country as a soldier in the United States Army in World War II, 
 SINGER-Herman. Editor and political analyst, died at his home in Manhattan on November 8, 2001, at the age of 86. He worked with Norman Thomas on behalf of the Socialist Party, serving as Editor of The Socialist Call from 1945 to 1958. He then joined the staff of East Europe magazine, publi
 SQUADRON-Howard M. Howard was a man of commanding intellect and sweeping vision. He was a brilliant lawyer and negotiator, patron and lover of the arts, and a passionate, articulate and persusive spokesman for Israel and the Jewish people, civil rights and civil liberties, and the City he l
 WISHNIA-Irving. Labor Zionist Alliance mourns the passing of our beloved Vice President, Irving Wishnia. His loving presence will be sorely missed. Jeffry V. Mallow, Pres. LZA Jechil M. Dobekirer, Chairman NY Regional Committee, LZA       
 SCHALL-Felix, a/a Herbert Lannard/d, 74, died December 26, 2001 of cancer. Devoted and beloved husband. A kinder man there never was! He will be missed by many, especially his wife Sophie Burghauser-Schall. SCHALL-Felix. Farewell to our wonderful dear friend. We will miss you greatl
 John Wilkinson Taylor, who held high posts in Unesco and was president of the University of Louisville, died on Dec. 11 in Denver. He was 95 and had lived in Chicago. As Unesco deputy director general and, for a time, acting director general in the 50's, Dr. Taylor emphasized ending
 DOWNES-Edward. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Edward Downes, who was quiz master for the Texaco-Metropolitan Opera Saturday afternoon radio broadcasts for nearly 40 years. Generations of radio listeners came to love and admire this urbane gentleman, whose erudition and wit were 
 FINK-Jack. We record with deep sorrow the passing of one of our dearest friends and major benefactors. A Holocaust survivor, Mr. Fink's devotion to Am Yisrael, Torat Yisrael and Eretz Yisrael was exemplified by his most generous sponsorship of several significant projects at YBA Or Etzion, 
 GOLDBERG-Ben. 83, retired President of SEIU Local 3036 (The Taxi Drivers Union), died December 28, 2001, following a brief illness. He was the beloved husband of the late Leah Duhl Goldberg. Father of Lawrence Goldberg and Cindy Wapnitsky. Father-in-law to Bryn Johnson and Ken Wapnitsky. Gr
 HOLLOWAY-Edward Jr. 83, of Buck Hill Falls and formerly of New York City died December 29. Born in Brooklyn, son of the late Edward and Lenora (Walker) Holloway. A graduate of Princeton and Yale Law School, he was an attorney, he served with the National Society of Colonial Warriors. Surviv
 KANDARPA - Someswara Rao. Beloved husband of 60 years of Saraswathi (Irvington, NY), and father of Revathi (Hastings, NY) and Krishna (Manhattan, NY), passed away peacefully in the presence of his family on Vaikunta Ekadasi, December 25, 2001. He leaves behind his dear grandchildren Anuradh
 LIMPERT-Harold J. III, ''Bob''. President, Limpert Bros., Inc., Vineland, NJ, on December 29 at age 79 after a brief illness. During WWII he proudly served as a naval aviator, test pilot, instructor, and was in the naval reserves. An outstanding businessman, author, inventor and speaker for
 MILLER-William Sanford. 83, of Bedford Hills, NY, on December 22, 2001. Husband of Anne for 50 years, father of William Sanford Miller Jr., Blair Miller, Carolyn Miller Cronful, Catherine Miller Sokoloff, Carl August Miller and Charlotte Miller McCarthy. Grandfather of eight. Educated at Th
 MORRIS-Arthur. Of Lighthouse Point, FL, on December 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Julie. Adored father of Bradlyn Kanner. Devoted brother of the late Ruth Kasoff. Loving grandfather, great-grandfather and uncle. Artie's love and his wonderful sense of humor will be greatly missed.       
 SINCLAIR-Bert. Peacefully, December 29, at the Hebrew Home in Riverdale, NY, where he had resided for several years. Born in Brooklyn, May 5, 1913. Served honorably US Army, South Pacific, 1943-1945. Owner and operator of Oscar's Restaurant, Brooklyn, NY. Predeceased by his wife Pearl Suben
 Reginald Pollack, a painter and printmaker, died on Dec. 6 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 77. Mr. Pollack was born in New York and first studied art with Moses Soyer at the High School of Music and Art. During World War II he served in the 87th Mountain Infantry and afte
 Judge Theodore J. Labrecque Jr., who presided over many highly publicized criminal trials in New Jersey, died on Dec. 23 at a hospital in Long Branch, N.J. The cause was cancer, the family said. A Superior Court judge for 14 years, Judge Labrecque had just retired on Dec. 4,
 Dr. Walter John Moore, a physical chemist, textbook author and biographer, died on Dec. 20 in Bloomington, Ind. He was 83. The cause was heart disease and kidney failure, his family said. His book ''Physical Chemistry'' (Prentice-Hall, 1950) remained a standard text for more
