 Mahanambrata Brahmachari, a soft-spoken Hindu scholar who offered early and important intellectual encouragement to the Roman Catholic monk and writer Thomas Merton, died in Calcutta on Oct. 18. He was 95. Although Dr. Brahmachari lived most of his life in his native Bengal, he enjo
 Max Patkin, who made more consecutive appearances on the diamond than Cal Ripken and was thrown out of more games than Earl Weaver in half a century of slapstick as the Clown Prince of Baseball, died Saturday at a hospital in Paoli, Pa. Patkin, who lived in Exton, Pa., was 79. The c
 ALLEN-Michael Lewis. Age 61, on Saturday, October 30, after a short illness. Devoted husband of Beverly; adored father of Nancy Markhoff, Richard, and Jeffrey; and father in-law of Michael Markhoff, and Mari Korper Allen; beloved grandfather of Adam and Abigail Markhoff. Brother of Leonore 
 BULLERJAHN-Eduard H. October 29, 1999, age 79, of Little Compton, RI. Husband of Julianna Sweetser Bullerjahn. Father of Stephen Riddle Bullerjahn, John teSelle Bullerjahn, and George Shepley Bullerjahn. Stepfather of William Daniel Grant IV. Brother of the late Hazel Dwyer. A celebration o
 FEIN-Samuel Wolf. Born May 13, 1912. Died October 27, 1999. Beloved husband of 60 years of the late Evelyn Leibowitz, loving father of Michael, Cynthia and Eric. Cherished grandfather of Lara and Karen Stolman. Loving brother of Sofie and Evelyn and the late Harry, Bella and Sally. Caring u
 GOLD-Abe. We will miss our dear Uncle and send condolences to his beloved Honey. Marilyn Farber Jacobs Alan Farber Janice and Stash Jacobs Tami, Michael and Scott Farber GOLD-Abe. A wonderful man and we will miss him very much. Ivy and Marvin Blumenfeld       
 HOCHBERG-Irving. Devoted husband of Ellyn Seifert. Loving father of Diane Greer and Beth Hochberg. Dearest brother of Harriet Kushins and Barbara Resnicoff. Cherished grandfather of Ian and Samantha Greer. Services 11:15 AM, Monday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. 
 LAMBROS-Lambros J. On October 29, 1999, at age 64. Loving father of John F. Lambros and Olivia W. Lambros. Devoted son of Niki and the late John Lambros. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 5-7 PM, and Wednesday, 10 AM-12 noon. Funeral services at th
 MARTINEZ-Julio. By his life, Julio Martinez has set an example for all of us of how to advocate for the poor, the addicted and the disenfranchised. His voice may be silent, but his example will never be forgotten. Sincere condolences to his wife Judy and to the Martinez family. Father Colem
 RIKER-John L. To commemorate the first anniversary of his death, there will be a memorial service Wednesday, November 3, 1999, 4:30 PM, St. Ignatius Loyola Church, 84 St. & Park Ave., NYC.       
 Victor Van Bourg, who has been called the West Coast king of union-side labor law, died on Tuesday at San Francisco International Airport. He was 68 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. The cause was apparently a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. He had flown from Washington, D.
 William Wilson, an editor and a co-author of ''An Incomplete Education,'' a general reference book addressed to college graduates who felt their education was inadequate, died at his home in Greenwich Village on Oct. 18. He was 51. The cause of death was H.I.V.-related illness, said
 Lord Jakobovits, outspoken former chief rabbi of Britain whose views on individual responsibility endeared him to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, died on Sunday morning at his home here. He was 78. He died of a brain hemorrhage, the family said. As head of an organization 
 ARON-Henry Edward. Devoted husband of Sylvia. Cherished father of Jeff and Gene. Adored grandfather of Eve and Jake. Beloved teacher. He will be deeply missed by his family, his friends and his students. He will be remembered as an inspirational teacher and a courageous fighter for social j
 FRATTO-Donato, ''Danny''-entered into rest on Saturday, October 30, 1999 at home, Newburgh, NY. He was 54. Loving wife, Julie Mazzotti-Fratto. DiDonato-Brooks Funeral Home (914) 561-8300.       
 JAKOBOVITS-Lord Immanuel. The officers, trustees and staff of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture deeply mourn the passing of its esteemed past president, Lord Immanuel Jakobovits, former Chief Rabbi of Great Britain and the Commonwealth and a renowned leader of world Jewry. As presi
 LAMBROS-Lambros J. On October 29, 1999, at age 64. Loving father of John F. Lambros and Olivia W. Lambros. Devoted son of Niki and the late John Lambros. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 5-7 PM, and Wednesday, 10 AM-12 noon. Funeral services at th
 ROSNER-Louis. Died October 31, four days shy of his 95th birthday. Cherished husband of the late Mary, loving father of Audrey and Harriet, loving father-in-law of Irwin, loving grandfather of Gari and Guido, Caryn and Paul, Martin and Ruth and Claire, loving greatgrandfather of Meryl, Drew
 WEINSTOCK-Jack. Beloved husband of Florence, devoted father of Susan, Amy and Gwen, loving grandfather of Ariel and Gregory, dear brother of Gloria and Selma. Services and interment were held. WEINSTOCK-Jack. Temple Beth Torah, Westbury NY, mourns the loss of our beloved member. We 
 Richard B. Tullis, who guided the Harris Corporation from a small printing press company to an electronic communications equipment giant, died on Sunday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla., the company said. He was 86. Although Mr. Harris's early career predated the computer revolution 
 Savumiamoorthy Thondaman, a Sri Lankan trade unionist and political figure who was a leader of the minority Tamils of Indian origin, died on Saturday in a hospital in the Colombo area. He was reported to be 86 or 87. The cause was heart failure, said a Sri Lankan legislator, The Ass
 Walter Payton, the Chicago Bears' running back whose single-minded aggressiveness and singular combination of power and speed made him the leading ground gainer in pro football history, died yesterday at his home in Barrington, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 45. The cause was bile d
 Alan Heimert, a longtime Harvard professor whose scholarship about 18th-century America was influential and controversial, died on Monday in Washington. He was 70 and lived in Winchester, Mass. Professor Heimert had cardiovascular problems, said his son, Andrew, whom the professor a
 Hilary Tjader Harris, an experimental and documentary filmmaker and kinetic sculptor, died on Oct. 26  at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was kidney failure, said David Hollister, a friend and collaborator, adding that Mr. Harris had contracted an undia
 Kenneth L. Schnitzer, a visionary Texas real estate developer and civic leader whose 30 commercial buildings form much of the Houston skyline, died on Monday after a six-month battle with lung cancer. He was 70. Casting out on his own after a stint as salesman for his family's Magno
 BENNAHUM-Michael. On November 1, Michael Bennahum, 58, died of cancer at home surrounded by his family. He is survived by his soulmate and wife Leslie, his children David and Samantha who gave him so much joy, his aunt Stella whom he loved dearly, and his brother David whose care and love w
 BLAU-Raymond, 89, died on October 30, 1999 of South Orange, New Jersey and Longboat Key, Florida. President of Max Blau & Sons, Inc. Loving husband of the late Hope Blau. He is survived by his loving daughters Maxine Blau and Adele Blau Cass, and grandsons David and Gregory. Friends and fam
 FEDER-Max. Of Sunrise, FL, and former longtime resident of Brooklyn and Forest Hills, NY, on October 29 at age 90. Son of Philip and Ida. Beloved husband of 59 years of the late and deeply missed Rose. Devoted father of Michael. Loving grandfather of Jonathan. Caring brother of Shirley and 
 FORMAN-Joseph. It is with profound sorrow that Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center/Rutland Nursing Home, its Board of Trustees, Medical/Dental Staff, and all personnel mourn the passing of Joseph Forman, esteemed Board Member. Sincere sympathies to his wife, Jean, and family. May they be comfo
 FREEMAN-Jarold and Barbara. The Board of Directors, Scientific Advisory Committee, Postdoctoral Fellows and employees of The Irvington Institute for Immunological Research note with great sadness the tragic and untimely deaths of Jarold Freeman and his wife Barbara Freeman on Egyptair Fligh
 JESSON-Chester S. of Rutherford, NJ, died Saturday October 30, 1999. Mr. Jesson was born in Bayonne, NJ. He was a retired linotype operator for the New York Times. Mr. Jesson was a Staff Sergeant in the Army Air Corps. Serving in Guam during WW II. He was a parishoner of St. Mary R.C. Churc
 JOHNSON-Thomas ''Mac''. Of Greenwich Ct. On October 31, 1999 at age 73. He had a long and distinguished career in the advertising business at Better Homes & Gardens, Sports Illustrated, Hockaday Associates, DeGarmo, AC&R, and R. Gesell & Co., producers of fine watches for NFL Properties. Gr
 KING-Stephen J. The employees of the New York City Department of Environmental Protection mourn the passing of our esteemed Director of Police. We will truly miss this dedicated and trustworthy public servant. To his wife, Tina, and to all his family, we extend our deepest condolences.     
 LAMBROS-Lambros J. On October 29, 1999, at age 64. Loving father of John F. Lambros and Olivia W. Lambros. Devoted son of Niki and the late John Lambros. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 5-7 PM, and Wednesday, 10 AM-12 noon. Funeral services at th
 LEW-John. On October 31, 1999 after a long battle with lung cancer. Survived by his wife, Harriet King, two sons Andrew and Christopher, his parents, a sister and a brother. Memorial service November 4 at St. Michael's Church, 225 W. 99th St., 10:30-11:30 a.m. In lieu of flowers donations t
 PRICE-Samson D. Died November 2, 1999 in Greenville, SC. He was 96 years old. He is survived by his wife, Ruth; his sons, Kenneth, Edward and Arthur; his grandchildren Giselle, Andrew and Stephen; and his daughters-in law, Graciela, Patricia and Sandra. He was a pioneer of the frozen fruit 
 SCHELPERT-John W., MD. It is with deep and profound regret that James R. Jones, MD, Professor and Chairman, and the faculty of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of New York Medical College acknowledge the tragic death on board Egyptair Flight 990, Sunday, October 31,1999, of Dr. J
 SCHICKELE-David. Film maker, violist and composer, 62, died of Cancer on October 31st in his San Francisco home. He is survived by his wife Gail, son Graham Spencer Nighttrain, daughter Laura Bissonette and brother Peter. His gifts touched many lives. Donations may be made to Commonweal, Bo
 SMITH-Lloyd Hilton. A resident of Southampton, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, died Wednesday October 27, 1999, in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Smith often quoted the Mark Twain exclamation, ''If I cannot smoke cigars in Heaven, then I won't go,'' was 94. Born in Pittsburgh, PA, the deceased was a member of
 Ian Bannen, who scored a film triumph late in his career as a charming con man in the 1998 hit comedy ''Waking Ned Devine,'' died yesterday in a car crash in his native Scotland. He was 71. The accident occurred near Loch Ness while Mr. Bannen was taking a short break from his lates
 Dr. Johannes van Paradijs, whose observations of the most powerful explosions in the cosmos led to an understanding of their nature, died Tuesday in Amsterdam. He was 53. The cause was cancer, said Dr. Edward van den Heuvel, a colleague and friend. An unusual scientist in an
 BENNAHUM-Michael. The principals and staff of ING Captial Advisors deeply mourn the passing of their friend and colleague, Michael Bennahum. His wit and wisdom will be missed by us all.       
 BLAU-Raymond, 89. Died on October 30, 1999 of South Orange, New Jersey and Longboat Key, Florida. President of Max Blau & Sons, Inc. Loving husband of the late Hope Blau. He is survived by his loving daughters Maxine Blau and Adele Blau Cass, and grandsons David and Gregory. Friends and fam
 FIREMARK - Samuel. Devoted husband of the late Ida, loving father of Teri Firemark and the late Hugh Firemark, cherished grandfather of Gordon Firemark, Rachel Firemark, Alison Firemark and Aurora Baletti, great-grandfather of Nicholaus Bates. Beloved brother of Lena Tannenbaum, Ida Barr, E
 FITZPATRICK-Robert. The management and staff of Paul Stuart, Inc. offers its condolences to the family of our former employee Bob Fitzpatrick and his wife, Sharon lost to us all on EgyptAir Flight 990. They will be missed.       
 FORMAN-Joseph. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving grandfather to Scott, Stacey, Jeffrey, Wendy and Stephanie Nagel. Cherished great-grandfather to Keith, Greg, Allison, Daniel, Jesse, Naomi and Dana. Poppa Joe's endless devotion to family and Judaism will continue to be an inspiration to all o
 JAKOBOVITS-Immanuel, Lord. Emunah of America mourns the passing of a world Jewish leader of outstanding dignity and personality whose reputation resounded throughout the world. Our condolences go to his wife, Amelie, our good friend, and to the entire family. Dr. Sylvia Schonfeld National P
 LAURIER-Brian Douglas, 43. Of Brooklyn, New York. Died October 29, 1999. He was an artist and sold his paintings privately. He was preceded in death by his mother, Margaret Lee Laurier. Survivors include his daughter Margueritte, father Maurice, sister Karen, brother David and special frien
 MCMAHON-Kevin Daniel, 38. Of New York City and Los Angeles, CA, passed away on October 31, 1999. He attended Parsons Art School and The School of Visual Arts, and led a successful career as a producer of popular television shows and documentaries. He is survived by his eight sisters and bro
 PETERSON-Carl Hoshin, of Yonkers, NY, died on November 2, 1999. He is the loving husband of Lucille Lohmeier Peterson. Cherished son of Doris Dorn Peterson and the late Carl Peterson. Dear cousin of Philip Peterson. Brother of Doris Rubasch. A memorial service will be held at 4 PM Saturday,
 ROEBUCK-Waldemar A. On November 1, 1999. He was the first and former president of the Board of Directors of Strycker's Bay Apartment, Inc. He was president of the Franciscan Lay Apostolate in the U.S. & Canada. He also held several community posts. Reposing at Walter B. Cooke-Kennedy Funera
 SCHELPERT-John W., M.D. The Executive Commmittee of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), District II, mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and his loving wife Joann, who lost their lives tragically aboard the EgyptAir Flight 990. Dr. Schelpert enthusiastically
 SCHIFFER-Robert L. We honor the remarkable achievements of a just man. His funeral will be held at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in his memory may be made to Planned Parenthood International and the American Society for Yad Vashem. Selma Schiffer, Suzi & Frank
 STEINHAUS-Gerald I. Fifty-two, died suddenly on Monday, November 1st having been stricken at his home in New Canaan, (CT). Born in Brooklyn, New York, October 30, 1947, graduated from New York University with a degree in mathematics & German literature, Mr. Steinhaus received his Juris Doct
 WUNDER-George W., age 86, of Port Washington, L.I. November 1, 1999. Beloved husband of Frances. Devoted father of William, Carolyn and Robert. Adoring grandfather of four, great grandfather of two. A Memorial Service will be held Saturday, November 13th at 10 A.M. at St. Stephen's Episcopa
 Robert D. Van Kampen, a millionaire investor who built one of the world's largest private collections of biblical manuscripts and early printed Bibles, died on Friday at Loyola University Medical Center outside of Chicago while awaiting a heart transplant. He was 60. Mr. Van Kampen,
 Frederick Brockway Gleason Jr., 91, a retired business executive, died on Tuesday at his home in Portland, Me. A former New Yorker, he had lived in Maine since 1971. Mr. Gleason retired in 1960 after six years as treasurer of Vermouth Industries of America. Previously he was with th
 BERGMAN-George S. On November 3, 1999, in his 102nd year. Former Mayor of Sands Point, N.Y., WWI Marine Corp Veteran. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Dear father of Susan Meehan and John Bergman. Grandfather of Eric, Laura and Jeanne Bergman and Christopher and Alisoun Meehan. Uncle of Pa
 BLAU-Raymond, 89. Died on October 30, 1999 of South Orange, New Jersey and Longboat Key, Florida. President of Max Blau & Sons, Inc. Loving husband of the late Hope Blau. He is survived by his loving daughters Maxine Blau and Adele Blau Cass, and grandsons David and Gregory. Friends and fam
 DIETRICH-Kurt. The Saltaire community has lost a unique spirit and devoted friend with Kurt's passing. Artist, wit, proud and loving husband, father and neighbor, Kurt leaves us with fond rememberances of his kindness, grace and humor. Our deepest sympathies to Susanne and their children, G
 FINNEGAN-J. Richard (Dick). Born January 20, 1925, New York City, passed away November 3, 1999 on Maui. Beloved husband of Lindy, loving father of Mrs. Katie (Gary) Darnell, Ann and Jim Finnegan and Mrs. Stacey (Kevin) Foster. Dick, a graduate of Phillips Academy '43 and Yale University '49
 GIBIAN-George. The Department of Russian Literature and the Russian Language Program at Cornell University are deeply saddened by the unexpected death, on October 24, 1999, of Goldwin Smith Professor of Russian and Comparative Literature George Gibian. He founded the Department and has been
 JACOBOVITS-Rabbi Lord Immanuel. Esteemed member of Board of Directors of Medical Research Foundation of Israel. We will miss his support, advice and leadership. He was a shining light of morality in a confused world. A man of peace. A master of communication. He followed the lead of our for
 KOPELL-Meyer. Of New Rochelle, New York. Died November 4, 1999 at the age of 95 years. Meyer is survived by his wife Frieda Ginsberg Kopell. He is also survived by his daughters Linda Levine and Nancy Kopell. His sons-in-law Mark Levine and Gabriel Stolzenberg also survived Meyer. His siste
 MARYLES-Avi. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved husband of Daisy and brother of our dear friend Matthew J. Maryles, member of the Board of Directors of Yeshiva College. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the en
 RUDD-Oliver Worsham, Jr. November 2, 1999. Husband of Julia Meade Rudd. Father of Caroline Rudd and Alice Rudd Elder. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Memorial service Monday, November 8, at 3:00 PM, Fifth Ave. Presbyterian Church, 7 West 55 St., NYC. RUDD-Wor
 SAJI-Keizo. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the passing of our beloved friend, Keizo Saji, a cherished member of the Rockefeller University Council for over fifteen years. His commitment to the University's mission of biomedical research and education will be greatly miss
 SCHELPERT-John William, III, M.D. and Joann Appleyard, of Chestertown, MD and former longtime residents of Bronxville, NY, died Sunday, October 31, 1999. John was a retired obstetrician/ gynecologist with New Rochelle Medical Center. He was a graduate of Yale University, 1950 and Jefferson 
 WOLINS-Joseph, on November 3, 1999, devoted husband of the late Selma, adored father of the late Sarah of Sag Harbor, New York, survived by sons John of Philadelphia, PA, Richard Lazaar of Tarrytown, NY and David Lazaar of the Bronx, NY, beloved brother of Louise Page of Barstow, CA, five g
 Zvi Griliches, who spent part of his youth hiding from the Nazis in his native Lithuania, survived Dachau, taught himself English in seven months at a British internment camp and went on to become one of the world's leading authorities on the statistical analysis of economic data, died yest
 John W. Evans, an astrophysicist who was the first director of the National Solar Observatory in Sunspot, N.M., and his wife, Betty, died on Sunday at their home in a suburb of Santa Fe, N.M., in what the local police described as an apparent murder-suicide. Dr. Evans was 90 and his wife wa
 Keizo Saji, the chairman of Suntory Ltd., one of the world's largest alcoholic beverage companies, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Osaka, Japan. He was 80. The cause of death was pneumonia, according to a report in The Asahi Evening News. Mr. Saji, as president of Suntory
 Malcolm Marshall, who despite his small stature became one of cricket's greatest fast bowlers, died Thursday at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in his hometown, Bridgetown, Barbados. He was 41. The cause was given as colon cancer. He had received the diagnosis in May during cricket's most 
 BLAU-Raymond, 89, president of Max Blau & Sons, Inc. Friends and family are invited to pay their respects between 1 and 8 PM on Saturday and Sunday at the home of Adele Blau Cass, 168 Glenview Road, South Orange, NJ. For more information, call 973-642-4900. Mr. Blau died Saturday, October 3
 DENSEN-Paul M. The Lautenberg Research Center of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Paul M. Densen, Chairman of the Lautenberg Research Center Endowment Committee. Paul was the pioneering and outstanding leader on a daily basis for over 20 years in
 HALPERN-William. The office and staff of Silk and Halpern Realty Associates Inc., and Richard T. Halpern Ltd. mourn the passing of their mentor and founder, William Halpern. He is survived by his sons, James and Richard, and two grandchildren, Dyer and Hilliary Halpern. Shiva will be Monday
 HERRMANN-Richard, M.D. The Association of Practicing Physicians of the New York HospitalCornell Medical Center deeply regrets the passing of Dr. Herrmann, a respected colleague, teacher, and physician. We offer our condolences to his wife Marilyn and his family.       
 KRAUSS-Mitchell. 68 of Westfield, NJ. Mr. Krauss was the co-owner of NJ's oldest advertising agency, J.M. Kesslinger & Assoc. of Union, NJ, and an active leader in the advertising industry in the state. He is survived by his wife Joy, son Bill (Stephanie Voss), daughters Susan and Caroline 
 NICHOLAS-Peter, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and distinguished colleague, Peter Nicholas, M.D., Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education and Asso
 POTTER-Ralph Fred, died after a brief illness on November 3, 1999, in a hospital near his home in Ormond Beach, Fla. Earlier he had owned his own independent insurance agency in Palmer, Mass. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Helen Mansfield Potter; three sons, Frederick, Thomas and R
 ROWE-Colin F. 1920-1999. Renowned architectural theorist, urban designer, architect, author and Professor Emeritus at Cornell University. He had an indelible influence on architectural education and practice in the U.S. and Europe over the last 40 years. He will be dearly missed by all thos
 SHABER-David, on November 4, 1999. Beloved husband of Alice. Loving father of Samantha and Remy. Dear brother of Dr. Gary Shaber of Philadelphia, PA. Devoted uncle of Steven Shaber, Ruth Hung, Amanda, Sarah and Liza Ward. Memorial service Sunday, 2:30pm at ''The Riverside'', 76 St & Amsterd
 SWOFFORD-Hugh G. Mentor, wonderful friend and partner in Swofford and Scharff. Possessed of many talents. We will miss him. Monroe B. Scharff       
 Walter Francis Skees, who as the United States Army's chief vocalist sang for seven presidents and millions of people around the world, died on Oct. 23 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Patricia, said. Mr. Skees, who was with th
 Demetrio B. Lakas, president of Panama from 1972 to 1978 during the government of Brig. Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Panama City. He was 74. The cause was a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Lakas was an engineer who was popula
 Demetrio B. Lakas, president of Panama from 1972 to 1978 during the government of Brig. Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Panama City. He was 74. The cause was a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Lakas was an engineer who was popula
 Karl M. Waage, a paleontologist and former director of the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale University, died on Oct. 18 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 83. Apart from running the museum and helping to train a generation of geologists and paleontologists in 
 COHN-Leo. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its member, Yehudah Cohn. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President       
 DEE-Peter Rogers. October 30; born in Winchester, MA 1939. Graduated from Boston College, and The American Academy of Dramatic Arts, NY. He served in the U.S. Navy. His love and dedication to the theater lead him to act, write plays and poetry and direct. Mr. Dee was awarded the Internation
 DENSEN-Paul M. The Lautenberg Research Center of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Paul M. Densen, Chairman of the Lautenberg Research Center Endowment Committee. Paul was the pioneering and outstanding leader on a daily basis for over 20 years in
 DORNAN-Peter. Age 76. Retired researcher and chief of the Samizdat Archives Department at Radio Liberty in Munich, died November 1, 1999 in suburban Philadelphia, Pa. where he made his home with his sister, Joan Dornan Katz, having moved there recently from Asbury Park, New Jersey.       
 DUBIN-Harry. On November 5, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Juliette. Loving father of Ronald Dubin and Jane Cates. Adored grandfather of David, Danielle, Denise, Colin, Melissa, Jonathan, David and Gilbert and greatgrandfather of Julia, Harrison, Evan, Leah and Reilly. Friends may call a
 EVANS-Deane Mann, of Darien, CT on Nov. 4. Survived by his wife Sue Ann Milliken Evans, sons Deane Mann Evans Jr. and James Milliken Evans, grandchildren Samivel and Georgia, and sister Paula Evans Foley. President of Louis Watjen, Inc. of New York City. A memorial service will be held at S
 GLUECK-Bernard C. and his wife of sixty-five years, Marie Louise Glueck (nee Howard) died recently. Both were eighty-four. They had run Stony Lodge in Ossining, New York together. He had been the Hartford Institute of Living's Director of Research and Psychiatrist at Sing Sing Prison, profe
 GRUNTFEST-Irving James, Ph.D. November 1, 1999, in West Palm Beach, FL, age 82. Mourned by special friend Lillian Baker of West Palm Beach, son David of Arlington, VA, daughter Eve Gruntfest of Fort Collins, CO, sister Lillian Cote of West Lafayette, IN. He was a research chemist. Contribut
 HALPERN-William. The office and staff of Silk and Halpern Realty Associates Inc., and Richard T. Halpern Ltd. mourn the passing of their mentor and founder, William Halpern. He is survived by his sons, James and Richard, and two grandchildren, Dyer and Hilliary Halpern. Shiva will be Monday
 HILF-Herman. Devoted husband of Jacqueline. Beloved father of Phyllis and Diane. Cherished grandfather of Rachel, Danielle, Emily, Aaron and Rebecca. Proud father-in-law of Jerry and Elliot. He lived his life with courage and dignity-from fighting for his life in WWII to fighting cancer. Hi
 KALTENBACHER - Richard S. Age 85, of Highland Beach, FL, and Martha's Vineyard, MA. Beloved husband of 61 years of Polly. Adored by his family, revered by his friends, and respected by his colleagues in the leather manufacturing industry. Survived by: Carol and Philip Mehler, Amanda and Mar
 KRAUSS-Mitchell. A most warm and wonderful colleague. He was a pleasure to work with and to be associated with. Our deepest sympathy to his wife and family. Nat and Ernie Roth       
 LASUS-Edward. 90 years old. Died October 29, 1999. Beloved husband of Helen & sons Robert, Richard & Howard & sister Clara Dorn Perrotti. A man with a sense of purpose, a smile and a helping hand for his fellow man.       
 LEVIN-Ross, 84. Died November 2, 1999. Beloved husband of Helen, loving father of Martin & Wendy, cherished grandfather of Erica, Rachel, Matthew, Aaron, Michelle, Daniel, Mallory & Melanie. Devoted brother of Horty. He will be missed by all. Services today, 2:15PM, Star of David Funeral Ch
 LINDAUER-Estelle Simon. Of Whiting, NJ, on October 31, 1999. Wife of the late Milton Lindauer. Survived by daughter Anita Weintraub, son-in-law Dr. Howard Weintraub, grandson and his wife, Marc and Jeanne Weintraub and grandson Seth Weintraub.       
 MARYLES-Avi. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Vice President Matthew Maryles on the passing of his beloved brother. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gedale B. Horowitz, President Mich
 NICHOLAS-Peter, Dr. The faculty & staff of the Division of Infectious Diseases & the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai NYU Health mourn the loss of our beloved colleague, Dr. Peter Nicholas. A graduate of Yale University School of M
 RUDD-Oliver Worsham, Jr. November 2, 1999. Husband of Julia Meade Rudd. Father of Caroline Rudd and Alice Rudd Elder. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Memorial service Monday, November 8, at 3:00 PM, Fifth Ave. Presbyterian Church, 7 West 55 St., NYC.       
 SELMAN-Abbe J. The Board of Directors of the New York County Dental Society is saddened by the passing of our distinguished past President. Dr. Selman served in 1974 as a standard bearer for our profession. His guidance and wisdom wil be missed. Our deepest sympathies to Edy, Josh and Richa
 SHABER-David, on November 4, 1999. Beloved husband of Alice. Loving father of Samantha and Remy. Dear brother of Dr. Gary Shaber of Philadelphia, PA. Devoted uncle of Steven Shaber, Ruth Hung, Amanda, Sarah and Liza Ward. Memorial service Sunday, 2:30pm at ''The Riverside'', 76 St & Amsterd
 Robert L. Schiffer, who was a speechwriter for United States delegates to the United Nations, including Adlai E. Stevenson and Arthur J. Goldberg, and who was also an international affairs consultant and an author, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York City. He
 Judge Charles G. Sweet, who helped supervise the trials of several of the nine people charged in the killing of the labor leader Joseph A. Yablonski and his wife and daughter 30 years ago, died on Oct. 31 at a nursing home in Tampa, Fla. He was 81. Judge Sweet, who had been living f
 Colin Rowe, a historian and teacher whose ideas helped to shape the thinking of some of today's most prominent American architects, died on Friday in Arlington, Va. He was 79. The cause was respiratory failure after a stroke suffered in May, said Judy DiMaio, a friend. Mr. R
 George V. Higgins, a crime novelist best known for his first published work, the best seller ''Friends of Eddie Coyle,'' was found dead on Saturday at his home in Milton, Mass. He was 59. He apparently died of natural causes, The Associated Press reported. The writing skills that Mr
 John Hadfield, an editor of literary anthologies and the author of ''Love on a Branch Line,'' a fanciful tale of British rural life in 1950's East Anglia that became a successful television series, died the last week of October, The Daily Telegraph of London reported. He was 92 and lived in
 ALAYA-Mario Salvatore. November 4, 1999, in Huntington Beach, CA. Beloved father, grandfather, great-grandfather, age 100 years. Born February 6, 1899, in Sperone, Italy. A decorated officer in the Italian Army in WW I. Arrived in the U.S. in 1921, he began a career in food importing and ma
 KALTENBACHER - Richard S.. Age 85, of Highland Beach, FL, and Martha's Vineyard, MA. Beloved husband of 61 years of Polly. Adored by his family, revered by his friends, and respected by his colleagues in the leather manufacturing industry. Survived by: Carol and Philip Mehler, Amanda and Ma
 LAZAR-Arthur. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime and founding member, and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Jack Stern Jr., Rabbi Emer
 MARYLES-Avi. The Board of Directors of the Zamir Choral Foundation expresses its heartfelt sorrow upon the untimely passing of Avi Maryles, beloved brother of its members Matthew J. Maryles and Jesse Maryles. Expressions of condolence to his beloved wife Daisy, their cherished daughter Miri
 PESARESI-Constantine V.., Rev. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of Our Lady of Sorrows Church, 104-11 37th Avenue, Corona, on November 6, 1999. Reposing at Buen Pastor Funeral Home, 3720 104th Street, Corona, on Monday, Novemeber 8, from 2 to 5 PM. Mass of 
 Primo Nebiolo, a powerful and controversial figure in international sports who brought track and field out of the amateur ranks as president of its world governing body for almost two decades, died yesterday at a hospital in Rome. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, according t
 William Malcolm Goodhart, whose first effort at play writing became a Broadway hit, died on Oct. 20 at his home on Shelter Island, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was heart disease, his family said. Mr. Goodhart achieved the dream of every aspiring playwright when his comedy, ''Generation
 George V. Higgins, who turned a prosecutor's knowledge of lowlife crooks into gritty Boston crime novels that unfolded in the gamy dialect of the city's hoodlums and cops, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Milton, Mass. He was 59. The police said he appeared to have died of 
 John A. Puelicher, retired chairman of the board of the Marshall & Ilsley Corporation, a bank holding company, died on Oct. 30 at his home in Milwaukee. He was 78. The cause of death was liver cancer, said a company spokesman, M. A. Hatfield. Mr. Puelicher, who was known as 
 John G. Bonomi, a lawyer who investigated the role of organized crime in professional boxing and later successfully sought the disbarment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on Saturday at his home in Irvington, N.Y. He was 76. As an assistant district attorney in Manhattan from 195
 Leon Stukelj of Slovenia, a gymnast who was born only two years after the first modern Olympics and became the oldest living Olympic gold medalist, died yesterday in Ljubljana, Slovenia. He was four days short of his 101st birthday. Stukelj (pronounced SHTOO-kel) competed in three O
 BOCKMAN-Eugene J. After a long illness. Nov. 8th, 1999, at Beth Israel Hospital in New York at the age of 76. Beloved husband of Miriam, cherished father of Peter, Claudia and Andrea, and adored grandfather of Maria, Bianca, Kate, Trevor and Kyle. He was proud of his 41 years of public serv
 CUNNINGHAM - Philip Tracy (USN, Commander, Ret.) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Microdyne Corporation of Alexandria, Virginia died suddenly on November 6, 1999 at his home in Alexandria, Virginia. Mr. Cunningham was the son of the late Daniel T. Cunningham and Hilda Bedingham Cunni
 FOLPE-Jean. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Jean Folpe, mother of Herbert Folpe. We extend our deepest condolences to Herbert and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 GREENWALD-Harold. The Partners, Counsel, Associates and Staff of Bangser Klein Rocca & Blum are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend, counsel, and former partner. He was a soft spoken, unfailingly courteous man. We will sorely miss his intellect, integrity and ethical standards. 
 HAASS-Irving B., on October 18, 1999, in Boca Raton, Florida at age 82. He was a longtime resident of Valley Stream and Roslyn, NY. Married for 51 years to the late Marcella Rosenthal Haass, he is survived by his sister, Miriam Mayer; his children, Barbara Haass Barshay and Richard; and by 
 HOBBS-Edward Robert, D.D.S. On Nov. 7, 1999. Loving husband of Diane Cucchi, adored father of Andrew. Dear brother of Robert and Barbara Hobbs. Devoted son-inlaw of Mr. & Mrs. Anthony Cucchi, brother-in-law Mark Cucchi and Lisa Kaelin and Alyce Hobbs. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 
 LAZAR-Arthur. Age 87. Passed away peacefully on November 6, 1999 at his home. Beloved husband of the late Rosa Lazar for 57 years. Loving father and father-inlaw of Mattie and David Schlang and the late Laurence Lazar. Cherished grandfather of Lisa and Julie Schlang, loving brother of Lil H
 MARTIN-Richard. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art are profoundly saddened by the untimely loss of the curator of our Costume Institute, Richard Martin. In his six immensely productive and influential years at the Museum, Richard brought an extraordinary intelligence, 
 OSTROW-Anne. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member, Bruce Ostrow and family on the loss of his beloved mother. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, Pres. Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 POPKIN-George L., M.D. The faculty, alumni, residents and staff of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University, record with a deep sense of loss the sudden death of Dr. George L. Popkin, who had been associated with the Department for over fifty years. George train
 SINGER-Monroe Schuyler, 72. A lifelong New Yorker, Monty graduated from Harvard College in 1947 and Yale Law School in 1950. He began his career at Shearman & Sterling, became a partner at Berlack, Israels & Liberman, and then spent over thirty years as Assistant Secretary and Vice Presiden
 STRULETZ-Rosalind. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Rosalind Struletz, beloved sister of Morton Olshan, our Honorary Trustee Co-Chairman. We extend condolences to Mort, Carole and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker
 Richard Martin, who infused the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art with his deep knowledge of popular culture and art history, died yesterday at his apartment in New York. He was 52. The cause was melanoma, said Dr. Richard Slusarczyk, his companion. Mr. Mar
 Haskel Frankel, a prolific author and theater critic, died last Wednesday in Chester, Conn. He was 73. Mr. Frankel, who had suffered several strokes over the last decade, died after a short illness, said his nephew, Seth Wolk. A theater buff who pursued acting early in life,
 G. McMurtrie Godley, a United States ambassador to Laos during the Vietnam War who played a central role in American efforts to defeat Communist forces there, died on Sunday in Fox Hospital in Oneonta, N.Y. He was 82. His position in Laos, from 1969 to 1973, hampered his diplomatic 
 BENNETTE-George Gilbert. 70, on November 8, at his home in Fairlee, VT. Husband of Shirley Hersom, father of Stephen Page and Matthew Gilbert, and brother of Elizabeth Shackelford. Concert pianist and longtime Director of Arts and Leisure Education at the Lighthouse International, Manhattan
 BROWN-Arthur B. 94, of Floral Park, NY, on Nov. 8, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Levison Brown, devoted father of Alan R. Brown. Also survived by 6 nieces. Retired professor of mathematics at Queens College and past president of the Metropolitan Section of the Mathematical Associat
 DIMONA-Joe, It is with profound sorrow that we mark the passing of our great friend and associate Joe DiMona, a wonderful author and quintessential New Yorker. We will miss his high spirits and intellect greatly, but take solace in the fact that his remarkable body of work, ''Prime Minister
 GODLEY-G. McMurtrie. The Board of Trustees, artists, and staff of Glimmerglass Opera deeply mourn the passing of our Chairman Emeritus and express our heartfelt gratitude for his years of leadership, devotion, and generosity. We extend our condolences and regards to his wife, Betty, and to 
 GOLUB-Albert. Our beloved husband, father and grandfather passed in peace on November 8, 1999. His wife Ann, family and friends remember his gentle ways with eternal love. Services at Riverside Chapel in Great Neck today, November 10, at 1:15PM.       
 GREENWALD-Harold. The Zionist Organization of America mourns the passing of its esteemed leader and Honorary Chairman of the Finance Committee. He served the cause of Israel and Zionism with integrity and distinction and will be sorely missed. May his family find comfort among the mourners 
 HOBBS-Edward Robert, D.D.S. On Nov. 7, 1999. Loving husband of Diane Cucchi, adored father of Andrew. Dear brother of Robert and Barbara Hobbs. Devoted son-inlaw of Mr. & Mrs. Anthony Cucchi, brother-in-law Mark Cucchi and Lisa Kaelin and Alyce Hobbs. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 
 JOHNSON-Saul He was the master of his fate; the captain of his soul. Beloved father of Peter and Ira and grandfather of Russell, Tara, Stacey and Lindsey. Also survived by sister Helyne. His love and counsel will be cherished.       
 KRAMER-Rabbi Leib. Of Montreal, on Shabbos 27 Cheshvan 5760, November 6, 1999. Mourned by his dear wife Chaya Zelda; beloved children Michel, Sara, Yosef, Esther, Shmuel; grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Memory can be honored thru ''Rabbi Leib Kramer Scholarship Fund,'' c/o 4706 Kent 
 LOMNITZ-Eric. The Managing Directors and staff of American Express Tax & Business Services are saddened by the death of a friend to many of us. We offer our heartfelt condolences to Barbara, sons Robert and David, daughters-inlaw Michele and Olga, grandson Daniel, and to his friends and ass
 MARGOLIES-Daniel. 89. Nuremberg prosecuting attorney, died of heart failure in Denver, CO November 6. After graduating from Harvard, 1931 and Harvard Law School 1936 he began his career as co-counsel for the LaFollette Senate Committee on unfair labor practices. During World War II he worke
 MARTIN-Richard. Parsons School of Design's faculty, students and administration mourn the passing of our beloved faculty member and cherished colleague, Richard Martin. His visionary intelligence, collaborative skills, and sincere humanity helped to make him a leader in curriculum developme
 MISEIK-Shihab, MD. The Department of Medicine at New York Methodist Hospital sadly announces the death of our colleague, Dr. Shihab Miseik. He was a knowledgeable and peaceful young doctor who will be deeply missed. Dr. Miseik graduated from the University of Khartoum in 1991 and was a memb
 RUNYON-Charles III, 85, of Ocracoke, N.C. died November 3, 1999. Charles is beloved and missed by his family and by his many wonderful friends.       
 Theodore Alvin Hall, who was the youngest physicist to work on the atomic bomb project at Los Alamos during World War II and was later identified as a Soviet spy, died on Nov. 1 in Cambridge, England, where he had become a leading, if diffident, pioneer in biological research. He was 74.   
 David Schickele, a film director and musician, died on Oct. 31 at his home in San Francisco. He was 62. The cause was was brain cancer, said his brother, the composer and musical humorist Peter Schickele. Mr. Schickele was born in Ames, Iowa, in March 1937 and grew up in Far
 Joseph DiMona, a professional author and screen and stage writer who collaborated on the Watergate memoir of the imprisoned former White House chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 76. He had been battling liver cancer for two years, sai
 The trumpeter, band leader and composer Lester Bowie, an icon of the experimental movement in jazz from the mid-1960's on who was also known for his comic shows and jazz-based treatments of pop music, died on Monday at his home in Brooklyn.  He was 58. The cause was liver cancer, sa
 ARONSON-Rudolph. On Nov. 9, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Julia. Devoted father of Raymond and father-in-law of Linda. Cherished grandfather of Philip and Deborah, Deborah, Suzanne and Sarah. Dearest great-grandfather of Ethan and Julia. Rudolph was a graduate of the Cooper Union, Class
 BENNETTE-George. The Board and staff of Lighthouse International are saddened by the death of George Bennette. During his 32 years at the Lighthouse he served as Director of the Lighthouse Music School and retired in 1989. His accomplishments left a lasting impact on the Music School and it
 CARRUTHERS - Tony, artist, teacher, bon vivant. On October 19, 1999. Much loved by friends, colleagues, collaborators and extended family, Tony is survived by his cat Wenckebach and countless absurd and inspirational moments. He taught and worked in the USA, England and Europe; most recentl
 CHRISTENSEN-Ronald Julius, a celebrated artist and member of the National Arts Club, New York City, died in Naples, Florida, on November 5, 1999. He was 76. During his career, Mr. Christensen had 75 one-man exhibitions. His work is included in many museums and hundreds of private collection
 GEE-Timothy S., M.D. The Saint Vincent's Comprehensive Cancer Center records with a deep sense of loss the sudden death of Dr. Timothy S. Gee. Dr. Gee was Chief Neoplastic Hematopoietic Services at Saint Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. Dr. Gee's special interest included his focus on
 LOMNITZ-Eric. All of his associates at Continental Resources Inc. deeply mourn the passing of our director. His leadership and counsel will be missed.       
 MAKSYMOWICZ-Zenon. Age 87 on June 13, 1999 in Brooklyn. In WW II fought with Polish 13th Horse Artillery Regiment; wounded in action; captured at last battle of 1939 campaign at Kock. Remained a POW in Germany until end of war. May he rest in peace.       
 MARTIN-Richard. The Docents of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum want to express our deep sadness at the enormous loss of our curator. He gave unstintingly of his knowledge, time and humor to prepare us for our tours. We will miss him.       
 ROSENBERG-Sandor B. of Tenafly, NJ on November 9, 1999. Devoted and beloved husband of Shelly. Father of Allison, Andrew and Melissa. Brother of Paul. Senior partner of Rosenberg & Coder, LLP. He lived life to the fullest until the very end. We all love you and miss you more than you will e
 STONE-Lauson. The entire Long Island College Hospital family mourns the passing of Lauson Stone, our esteemed friend, colleague and benefactor. Mr. Stone was a member of the LICH Board of Regents for over 30 years, serving as Co-Chair of the Board of Regents Nominating Committee, as well as
 TELFER-Winifred. The Board of Trustees of the Reece School express their heartfelt sympathy to fellow board member Dean Telfer on the death of his beloved mother Winifred Telfer. We extend our condolences to the entire Telfer family.       
 WASSERSTEIN-Ian Jacob. On November 9, 1999 died at home. Lived life as fully as possible with optimism and enthusiasm. Died of cancer, a patient at Memorial Sloan Kettering-Cancer Center, NYC. which was part of his extened family. Son of Sara Frischer and Stephen Wasserstein. Brother of Rob
 WEINER-Sherwood Melvin, 73, died on October 29, 1999 following a long illness in Delray Beach, FL. Mr. Weiner was born in Mount Vernon, NY on October 23, 1926. He was the son of the late Barnett T. Weiner and Anne C. (Birnbaum) Weiner. A private memorial is planned. Donations in Mr. Weiner'
 BURNS-James Terry. In loving memory of our brother Jim, who died 20 years ago today at the age of 22. We miss him still. Harborfields, '75, Colgate , '79. Brothers: Peter Martin, Stephen Geoffrey & Richard Dale Burns       
 Biagio DiLieto, a former New Haven mayor and police chief who helped breathe new life into the city during his 10 years in office, died Monday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 76. The cause was cancer, a funeral home spokesman said. Yesterday, Mr. DiLieto, a Democrat w
 Felix Galimir, a violinist who was one of the last links to the vital musical world of prewar Vienna, and a chamber music player who was revered by several generations of instrumentalists as a demanding and inspiring coach, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 and had conti
 Jacobo Timerman, the distinguished Argentine journalist whose imprisonment and torture by his country's military forces in the 1970's created an international human rights furor, died yesterday at his home in Buenos Aires. He was 76. The cause of death was a heart attack, his second
 Lauson Harvey Stone, a lawyer and civic leader who was assigned by the War Department to be a defense lawyer for eight Nazi saboteurs who were tried in Washington in 1942, died on Sunday at a Brooklyn hospital. He was 94 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Stone, a son of Harlan Fiske Stone,
 BLITZ-Sidney. Former principal of P.S. 158 in Manhattan, died on November 4, 1999 in Somerset, NJ. Mr. Blitz served for over 40 years in the New York City school system as a teacher of merchandising at Thomas Jefferson High School, assistant principal and principal. He was the co-founder of
 BOWIE-Lester. The staff and board of the Brooklyn Academy of Music mourn the passing of Lester Bowie, a great musician, who gave so much to his community. We extend sympathy to his wife, Deborah, a BAM employee, and her family. Karen Hopkins President Joseph Mellilo Executive Producer      
 GALIMIR-Felix. On November 10, 1999. Violinist and teacher. Beloved husband of the late Suzanne. Brother of the late Marguerite, Renee and Adrienne. Cherished uncle of Elsa Miller, Richard Hurtig, Naomi Krasner, Viola Morse & the late Vien Krasner. Services Friday, 10AM at ''The Riverside''
 GEE-Timothy S., M.D.. He was our good and compassionate friend and doctor-for our daughter, Lauri; for our dear friend, Herman Kannatt, and as chairman of the Medical Board of our Foundation. Tim, you will be missed. To Carol and family, we mourn our mutual loss and express our deep sympath
 GREENWALD-Harold., age 92, born in Yonkers, NY, on April 2, 1907, died on November 6, 1999, at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York, after a short illness. Son of the late Rose and Louis Greenwald, he was a highly respected attorney, generous supporter of many philanthropic organizations, ardent
 KONIAK-Michael R., DDS., of Middletown, NY died November 10, 1999. He was fifty-three years old. Dr. Koniak was a dentist in Orange County for twenty-five years maintaining an office in Goshen, NY for most of such time. Locally he was an active member of Rotary and a director of ARC of Oran
 LOMNITZ-Eric.All his friends and associates in the AIMCOR companies in the U.S., U.K., Luxembourg, Holland and Germany for whom he was a founding father of our current businesses, will miss his humor, enthusiasm, advice and example. So much of what we are today as individuals and as a busin
 LYNCH-Russell Vincent., November 14, 1922 to November 10, 1999. Born in New York, NY; raised in Greenwich, CT. Attended Phillips Exeter Academy. He served in the Pacific on the aircraft carriers U.S.S. Ticonderoga and the U.S.S. Hancock. Upon release from the Navy in 1945 as a decorated Nav
 MARTIN-Richard. The faculty, staff, students and alumni of the Department of Art and Art Professions, New York University/School of Education deeply mourn the passing of our extraordinary colleague with whom we have worked for more than 20 years. His inspirational teaching, astonishing posi
 PACIFICO-Richard Glenn. On November 9, 1999. He is survived by his wife Natalie, children Stephanie and Richard Jr., parents Salvatore and Lydia Miranda, sisters and brothers Grisel, Lynn and Duff, grandmother Ramona and nieces, nephews, cousins, aunts and uncles. Friends may call on Friday
 SCHNITZER-Jeshaia., Rabbi, of Montclair, on Thursday, November 11, 1999. Distinguished leader of the Jewish community for over half a century. Beloved husband of the late Hilde Maier Schnitzer. Cherished father of Rabbi Jonathan A. and Beverly Schnitzer of Rockville, Maryland, and Lisa J. a
 SPERLING-David E.. 81, of Sherman, Ct., and formerly White Plains, NY, passed away November 9, 1999. Husband of Phyllis H. for 58 years, father of Margaret, Alice, David L., Sharon, Louise; grandfather of Daniel, Sarah, Gideon and David J. He remained a lifelong learner and natural teacher.
 STEIN-Fred., on November 10, 1999. Beloved husband of Arlene. Dear father of Ivi. Brother of Robert and George. Funeral Services I.J. Morris, Inc., 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, Friday, 10 AM. Interment at New Montefiore Cemetery. Family requests donations to be made in memory of Fred to Ca
 WEINER-Sherwood Melvin., 73, died on October 29, 1999 following a long illness in Delray Beach, FL. Mr. Weiner was born in Mount Vernon, NY on October 23, 1926. He was the son of the late Barnett T. Weiner and Anne C. (Birnbaum) Weiner. He is survived by a son Albert Weiner and two daughter
 WITTENSTEIN-Robert., age 69, of Westport, CT and Boca Raton, FL, died Wednesday, November 10, 1999 following a long illness. Mr. Wittenstein was a former Senior Vice President, Investments at Paine Webber, Inc. Mr. Wittenstein was predeceased by his sister, Arlene Stuart, & is survived by h
 Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt, the elegant symbol of the sportsman in high society when he was the impresario of horse racing and the pillar of one of the most aristocratic families in America, died yesterday at his home in Mill Neck, N.Y. He was 87. He was born in London and educated at
 BLISH-Sylvester, age 82, died Thursday, November 11, 1999 at Stamford Hospital. Born October 1, 1917, he was predeceased by his wife Marite Orteig Blish, and survived by his children Marguerite Coffey of Bridgwater, CT, Suzanne Sclafani and Sharon LaGreca of Darien, CT, Cindy Philpott of Ho
 COSGROVE-Henry J., Msgr. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of a former presiding Judge of the Tribunal of the Diocese of Brooklyn, on Nov. 11. Reposing in Fairfield Funeral Home, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, Sunday, Nov. 14, from 3 to 5 and 7 to 9 pm. Funeral Mass at the Immacu
 DANIELS-Irwin H. On November 12, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia, loving father of Arleen D. Auerbach. Dear father-in-law of Robert Auerbach. Cherished grandfather of Steven and Laura. Adoring great-grandfather of Anya and Alex. He will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 11:15am at t
 GALIMIR-Felix. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the passing of Felix Galimir. A musician's musician who appeared on the Carnegie Stage more than a dozen times, he had a central role in the training of generations of some of America's finest musicians. The entire Carneg
 GEE-Timothy, M.D. The SASS Foundation extends its deep sympathy for the loss of a dear friend, colleague and board member. His contributions and presence will be missed, but his fight against cancer will long live on in all of us. Francis P. Arena, M.D. Barbara and Martin Sass       
 HARDER-Lewis B., 81. Of Katonah, NY. Died on November 11. Husband of Dorothy. Father of Deirdre Harder Laveran and Diana Harder Terrell. Grandfather of seven, great-grandfather of five. Also survived by two brothers and three sisters. A memorial mass will be at St. Patrick's R.C. Church, Be
 LYNCH-R. Vincent, November 14, 1922 to November 10, 1999. Born in New York, NY; raised in Greenwich, CT. Attended Phillips Exeter Academy. He served in the Pacific on the aircraft carriers U.S.S. Ticonderoga and the U.S.S. Hancock. Upon release from the Navy in 1945 as a decorated Naval Avi
 SAMMUL-Oscar Roger, from a heart attack in his Alexandria, Virginia, apartment on October 13, 1999, the eve of his 86th birthday. A native New Yorker, Mr. Sammul obtained a Bachelor's Degree in chemistry from C.C.N.Y. and a Master's Degree in education from Columbia University. He then work
 WHITTEMORE-Richard D. Age 80 of Port Washington, LI on November 11, 1999. Beloved husband of Wilda. Devoted father of Richard of Brule, NE, Reed of Port Washington, LI, Cynthia Kaestner of Fairfield, CT and Elizabeth Ford of Littleton, CO. Adoring grandfather of 9 grandchildren and 4 great 
 Robert Kramer, an American movie director whose portrayals of militants caught up in the antiwar movement of the late 1960's and early 1970's earned him a prominent place in modern political cinema, died on Wednesday in a hospital in Rouen, France, at the age of 60. Friends gave the cause o
 Aaron F. Goldstein, a former New York State Supreme Court justice and a former state assemblyman from Brooklyn, died Oct. 27 at a hospital in Westwood, Calif. He was 90. Justice Goldstein, who lived much of his life in Brooklyn and Queens but spent his later years in retirement in H
 Jacob Glick, a violist admired for his championship of new music and his performances on the Baroque viola d'amore, died on Nov. 1 at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington. He was 73 and lived in New York and Bennington. Deborah Borda, the executive director of the N
 BIER-Charles. Born November 4, 1913, died November 11, 1999. Beloved husband of Frances. Brother of Abe. Cherished father of Jacqueline and Jay, Stephanie and Fred. Adored grandfather of Hillari and Rob, Allison and Drew, Dawn and Jonathan, Scott and Eric. Loved great-grandfather of Alana a
 CONRON-Michael A. Aviator and Aviation Executive of Greenville, Delaware, Tolouse, France and Lyme, Connecticut, October 29, 1999. AB, Political Science, Brown University; MA, American History, University of Massachusetts, Amherst; MThil, American History, Columbia University. After Brown, 
 DANIELS-Irwin H. On November 12, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia, loving father of Arleen D. Auerbach. Dear father-in-law of Robert Auerbach. Cherished grandfather of Steven and Laura. Adoring great-grandfather of Anya and Alex. He will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 11:15am at t
 GEE-Timothy, M.D. The Medical Staff of St. Vincent's Hospital notes with sorrow the passing of an esteemed colleague and friend. Dr. Gee, an international authority in the treatment of leukemia, will be remembered for his warmth and compassion. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. 
 GOLDIN-Abe R. Raconteur, oenophile, lover of life, guardian of family and religious traditions, World War II veteran, passed onto his next journey November 12, 1999 after a courageous 10 year battle with cancer. The loss of this loving and distinguished man will be felt by his wife Molly, d
 GOLDSTEIN-Maurice Aaron. A gentleman, a scholar, a friend without equal, a person who savored life to the fullest and shared it with family and friends; compassionate, wise and deeply involved with the community. A bon vivant, a man of style and breeding. I am lucky to have been a part of h
 HARDER-Lewis B., 81. Of Katonah, NY. Died on November 11. Husband of Dorothy. Father of Deirdre Harder Laveran and Diana Harder Terrell. Grandfather of seven, great-grandfather of five. Also survived by two brothers and three sisters. A memorial mass will be at St. Patrick's R.C. Church, Be
 MOORE-Gordon H., physician and resident of Houston, Texas, died Friday, November 5, 1999, at the age of 50 from complications related to the HIV virus. Dr. Moore began his profession in the practice of pediatric medicine and later held the position of Medical Director of the McGregor Clinic
 NEISSER-Eric. The staff, the board, and the members of the American Civil Liberties Union mourn the passing of Eric Neisser, dean and president of Franklin Pierce Law Center and longtime friend and colleague of the ACLU. Eric devoted his entire professional life to defending the rights of t
 PACE-Harry R., M.D. Of Boynton Beach, Florida, age 85, died November 12, 1999. He practiced obstetrics and gynecology at Maimonides Hospital in Brooklyn, New York, for over thirty years and delivered three generations of babies. He was the first resident in obstetrics and gynecology at Maim
 SALTZ-Samuel. Died peacefully after a long illness, November 11, 1999 at the age of 86. Devoted husband of the late Deborah Saltz, beloved brother of Julian Saltz (brother-in law of Nicky Saltz), Adele Vexler, Helen Jacobson, and the late Elizabeth Saltz. Sadly missed by his nieces and neph
 SHTOB-Abe. 87. Educator, scholar, electrician, comrade died November 10. His first passionate love was his wife Dorothy, and beloved children and grandchildren Eric, Terry, Sonia, Nicholas, Daniel, Amy, Callie, great-grandson Hugo, sister Jessie. His family and cherished friends mourn the p
 VANDERPUTTEN - Herbert Joseph. Of New York City, formerly of Westbury, LI. On November 12, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth, his wife of 59 years. Devoted father of Peter (deceased), Thomas, Gary and James. Loving father-inlaw of Joan, Jan and Jill. Cherished grandfather of Christine, Michael,
 WINEBURGH-Joel T. Age 58, of New City, NY, passed away November 11, 1999. Loving husband of Marjorie, father of Steven and Diana, Susan, and Amy, adoring grandfather of Henry, devoted son of Edith and the late Samuel Wineburgh, brother of Michael and Melinda, and cherished friend. He gradua
 Richard Marius, a scholar of the Reformation, novelist and speechwriter who ran the Harvard Expository Writing Program for 16 years, died Nov. 5 at his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 66. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Lanier Smythe. Dr. Marius's scholarly wor
 Sir Vivian Fuchs, the British leader of an international expedition that in 1957 and 1958 made the first surface crossing of Antarctica -- a journey then regarded as the last great challenge of exploration -- died on Thursday in his home in Cambridge, England, his family said Friday. He was
 Alberto Bolet, a cosmopolitan, Cuban-born orchestra conductor, died on Wednesday while visiting his daughter in Teaneck, N.J. He was 94 and lived in Long Beach, Calif. Mr. Bolet was an energetic champion of Cuban and other Latin American music. In an interview in 1956 in Havana, bef
 Daniel Margolies, a lawyer with a long career in public service, including membership in the team of American prosecutors at the war-crimes trials in Nuremberg after World War II, died Nov. 6 at a hospital in Aurora, Colo., a suburb of Denver. He was 89. Partly because of the fluent
 Donald Mills, the last surviving member of the singing group the Mills Brothers, whose serene harmony and playful wit in songs like ''Up a Lazy River'' and ''Glow Worm'' entertained audiences over six decades, died Saturday. He was 84. Mr. Mills had been performing as recently as Ap
 Eric Neisser, a civil liberties lawyer who was the dean of Franklin Pierce Law Center in Concord, N.H., and the former acting dean at Rutgers School of Law in Newark, died last Monday at a hospital in Concord. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, said Irene O'Brien, a spokeswoma
 Jack Hooke, who managed some of the biggest names in jazz, rock 'n' roll and Latin music during 51 years  in entertainment, died on Saturday at North Shore University Medical Center in Queens. He lived in Bayside, Queens, and was 83. At the time of his death, Mr. Hooke was with RMM 
 The way his widow tells it, Max Hunter realized early in his travels as a salesman in Missouri that the hill people of the Ozarks had songs, stories and expressions that were uniquely theirs. And so he decided to collect as many as he could before they vanished into time. Mr. Hunter
 BEATY-John Thurston, M.D. 82. On Friday, November 12, 1999, in Waynesville, NC. He was formerly of Rye, NY, and Greenwich, CT, and was a current resident of Waynesville, NC. He was educated at Princeton University and Columbia Medical School. He specialized in the practice of alternative me
 BERES-Robert A. On November 13, 1999. Beloved husband to Suellen, loving father to Bill and John, father-in-law to Diane and stepfather to Jonathan and Greg, proud grandfather to Ryan, Jamie and Sydney, cherished son to David, dear brother to Paul and Jill, uncle and great-uncle to many. He
 BOOJAMRA-John L., Ph.D. Of Demarest, New Jersey, died at age 57, on November 11, 1999. Dr. Boojamra was the Director of Christian Education of the Antiochian Orthodox Archdiocese, Executive Secretary of the Orthodox Christian Education Commission for all of the Orthodox Christian Churches o
 DAVIS-Donald A., M.D. 91, of Southbury, CT, died at Danbury (CT) Hospital on November 12. He was born in Danbury and was loving husband for 71 years of Jean Parks Davis, also from Danbury who, survived him. Dr. Davis attended Brown University and graduated from Columbia University where he 
 FRANKEL-Stanley A. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Stanley A. Frankel. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Irene and to the entire family. William Ettelson, President Michael Roth, Secretary      
 GLICK-Jacob. The Viola d'amore Society of America deeply mourns the loss of its colleague Jacob Glick, an artist, violist, musician and teacher of the highest integrity. He shall be greatly missed as a musician and as a speical human being. We send our sincerest condolences to his wife Lilo
 LEVINE-Leonard (Lenny) of Boca Raton, FL. Passed away Friday, November 12, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Carol, of 29 years. Lenny leaves behind his sister, Marilyn Cohen, his children, Jill Trakin, Eric, Steven and Scott Levine. Father-in-law to Mary Stuart Woodfin-Levine and Roy Trake
 PARL-Charles V. On November 10, 1999. A resident of Bayside, NY. Retired Senior Vice President, International Banking, Marine Midland Bank, head of the Latin American Division and former Director of ACO, Caracas, Venezuela. He was born in 1911 in Bessarabia, Czarist Russia, and predeceased 
 TIMBERLAKE-Shelby V. Jr. 80, on November 11, 1999, in Pelham Manor, NY. Beloved husband of Mary; devoted father of Laurie, Pam, and Liz; and three grandchildren; predeceased by his sister Betty. Memorial service at Huguenot Memorial Church, Pelham Manor, NY, November 17, 1999, at 5 PM. Memo
 ZUSS-Michael E. Beloved husband, father, and educator died November 7, age 82. Dr. Zuss received his Ph.D. in philosophy at the Graduate Center, CUNY, at the age of 70, and was a member of the Phi Beta Kappa Society. An active scholar of religious and classical philosophy, he was devoted to
 Rabbi Jeshaia Schnitzer, a pioneer in integrating Jewish pastoral care and family therapy, died on Thursday while staying at his daughter's home in Manchester, Conn. He was 81 and lived in Montclair, N.J. The cause was cancer, said Rabbi Michael Monson, the present rabbi of the the 
 Robert C. Belloni, a former chief judge of the United States District Court for Oregon who upheld American Indian fishing rights in the Pacific Northwest, died on Nov. 3 at a retirement home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 80 and formerly lived in Portland. Mr. Belloni was appointed to 
 The Rev. Dr. Thaddeus A. Garrett Jr., an Ohio minister in the A.M.E. Zion Church who became a Republican adviser on national urban and racial affairs, died on Monday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 51. The cause was kidney failure, said Wesley Te
 Col. John Paul Stapp, an Air Force medical researcher who rode a rocket-powered sled at a speed faster than a .45-caliber bullet in an experiment to test the limits of human endurance, died on Saturday at his home in Alamogordo, N.M. He was 89. Dr. Stapp was known as the ''fastest m
 COHEN-Murray, 82, of Boca Raton, Florida and formerly of New York, died November 14, 1999. He was a former executive of Glenoit Mills, New York, New York. He is survived by his wife, Ruth. Graveside services at Wellwood Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY, at 2:00 PM, Tuesday, November 16, 1999.       
 FRANKEL-Stanley Arthur. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. On November 12, 1999. Beloved husband of Irene (nee Baskin) for 53 glorious years. Loving and treasured father of Steve, Tom, and Nancy. Father-inlaw of Henry Joselson and Helen Frankel. Wholly devoted grandfather to Adam, Danielle and Arielle. Dea
 GEE-Timothy S., Dr., The Leukemia Service at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center deeply regrets the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Timothy S. Gee. A distinguished clinician, academician, and valued member of our group for more than 25 years, Dr. Gee trained numerous young 
 GRAHAM-David Tredway. Internist and educator, died in Newark, Delaware on Saturday, November 13, 1999 at age 82. He was a pioneer in the development of psychosomatic medicine whose research demonstrated a relationship between particular diseases and associated attitudes toward life events. 
 HESS-Clyde G. Jr., 76, of New Hampshire and Florida, November 13, 1999 in New Hampshire. Family members include his wife of 41 years, Muriel (Murray), three sons; Dustin of Florida; Patrick of New Hampshire, and Timothy of Maine; a daughter, Jennifer of Massachusetts; and four grandchildren
 HILLMAN-George. Beloved husband of Selma. Devoted father of Terry and Lori and father-in-law of Lorin. Loving grandfather of Jesse, Ari, & Devin. Dear brother of Ruth & brother-in-law of Morris. Cherished uncle and friend. Died peacefully November 15, 1999 at the age of 83. His life was dev
 KAPNER-Irving. On Monday, November 15, 1999. Beloved husband of Doris. Loving father of Mark, Carol and Judy. Cherished grandfather of Jocelyn, Oliver and Isabel. Dear brother of Sydney. Services will be at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue at 1:45pm, Tuesday, Nove
 KATZ-Seymour. The Katz and Schindler families mourn his death on November 11. Loving companion, father, grandfather.       
 LINNICK-Charles, 95. Of Pompano Beach, Florida, passed away on November 15, 1999. He is survived by his loving daughter, Marjorie Schlosberg, devoted daughter-inlaw, Ruth Linnick, cherished grandchildren, Karen, Jeremy, Mitchell and Cindy, loving greatgrandchildren, Daniel, Jonathan and Zac
 MALINO-John. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Loving father of Joanne and Paul, Debbie and Rob, Linda & Dana. Adored grandpa of Jason and Andy. Dear son-in-law of Helen and Sydney Alter. Services Tuesday 11:30 A.M., from Temple Israel of Lawrence, 140 Central Avenue, Lawrence, New York. 
 MASTEN-John E., 87, of Rye, N.Y. Attorney, retired Vice President of The Phelps Dodge Corporation, and public servant, died suddenly on Friday, November 12, 1999. He was husband of the late Laura Wood Masten, father of Elizabeth M. Hammill of New Castle-uponTyme, England and John H. Masten 
 PAITON-H. Kenneth, Col. The New York Chapter of The Military Order of the World Wars records with sorrow the death of our esteemed companion and Treasurer for many years. He will be remembered for his patriotic leadership and selfless devotion. He will be sorely missed. We extend our heartf
 SPATZ-Leo. Passed away peacefully on November 14. Beloved brother of Theodore Spatz and Dorothy Waldman. He is also survived by many loving nieces and nephews. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched with his gentle soul.       
 WINEBURGH-Joel T. Joel will be greatly missed by his colleagues and friends at Cometals and Commercial Metals Company. In his 26 years as a member of the Cometals family, Joel made many special contributions. He was a unique, tireless, talented and warm individual. We extend our sympathies 
 SANTINO - Richard. 1946 - 1994. Forever in the hearts of his twinbrother, his niece, his comradeBob, Liza, Dick       
 Brig. Gen. Austin Conner Shofner, the marine who got word to the outside world of the infamous Bataan Death March of 1942 after he engineered the first and only successful American team escape from a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp, died on Sunday at his home in Shelbyville, Tenn. He was 83. 
 Frank MacShane, a literary biographer who specialized in applying the highest standards of criticism to popular novelists like Raymond Chandler and John O'Hara who had been ignored by other academic critics, died on Monday at a nursing home in Gloucester, Mass. He was 72. Dr. MacSha
 COOPERMAN - Irving. Beloved uncle of Janet Lehr, Judith Schreier & Robert Rosenblum. Services and interment private. In keeping with his wishes contributions to an environmental cause of your choice would be appreciated.       
 CORVINGTON-Serge, 88, on November 6, 1999. Born in Haiti. Great Diplomat to the United Nations and Consul General to New York. After his Master's Degree in Librarian Sciences, Columbia University he worked 20 years at New York Public Library. His greatest treasures were those of the mind an
 DEAL-Charles M. Age 93. Died November 13, 1999, Pennswood Village, Newtown, PA. Graduated St. Lawrence University 1926, L.L.B., J.S.D. Brooklyn Law School. Resided Brooklyn Heights until retirement from A.T.&T. serving as a corporate lawyer specializing in stock transfer matters. Retired to
 GAFFIGAN-Michael A., 63, of Dune Acres, IN., former President of Mercantile National Bank of Indiana, died on Friday at Saint Margaret Mercy Hospital in Hammond. He continued to be active in many community organizations up until his death. All of his life he was an eloquent and passionate c
 HOCHBERG-Max. Died Nov. 11, 1999. He founded the Hochberg Bros. Painting Co. in 1929 and the JM Charles Painting Co. In 1967, and remained an active partner until his retirment at age 90. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Ida and daughters Alice and Beverly. He is survived by his daugh
 MacSHANE-Frank Sutherland, 72, on Nov. 15, in Gloucester, MA. Father of Nicholas M. MacShane and his wife Heather MacShane of Wellesley, MA; grandfather of Benjamin and Quincy MacShane; former husband and friend of Lynn Fry Clarke of N.Y., brother of Jean Fraser-Harris of England. Memorial 
 MALINO-John. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of one of our most loyal supporters. John was a Director of the Foundation for many years, constant in his dedication of our goals and beliefs. He will be deeply missed b
 MASTEN-John E., 87, of Rye, N.Y. Attorney, retired Vice President of The Phelps Dodge Corporation, and public servant, died suddenly on Friday, November 12, 1999. He was husband of the late Laura Wood Masten, father of Elizabeth M. Hammill of New Castle-uponTyme, England and John H. Masten 
 MEADE-Reverend Garvey G. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the parochial vicar of Good Shepherd Church, 1950 Batchelder Street, Brooklyn, on November 13, 1999. Reposing in Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Quentin Road, Brooklyn, Wednesday, November 17, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 10 p.m
 MUNSON-Nicholas, NVVF. Born April 19, 1911 in Williamsport, PA, passed away Monday November 15, 1999. Yale Graduate Class of 1933 and veteran of World War II. Predeceased by his wife, Helen, in 1991, and one of his four sons, Edgar Munson, in 1997. Survived by sons Nicholas, William, and Th
 PACE-Harry, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. Harry Pace. Dr. Pace was associated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for over forty years. He was one of the first obstetric/gynecology residents
 PODESTA-Frederick J. On November 15, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lillian (nee Daly). Fred Podesta has been associated with Madison Square Garden for more than 25 years in executive capacities as Vice President, Publicity, Advertising & Promotion Director. He was also General Manager o
 WEINSTEIN-Barry Donald. Of Coral Springs, FL. Formerly of Whitestone, NY. On November 14, 1999. Graduate of St. John's University School of Pharmacy. Through his career as a licensed pharmacist and while finishing up his doctorate in pharmacology, he was passionately proud of his profession
 Benjamin Schwartz, one of the first scholars to show that Mao Zedong developed his own brand of Communism beyond Soviet control and a professor emeritus of history and political science at Harvard University, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 82. Althou
 Dr. Daniel Nathans, a Nobel Prize-winning geneticist who pioneered the use of scalpels in analyzing DNA, a technique that helped create the biotechnology industry, died on Tuesday at his home in Baltimore. He was 71 and had taught at Johns Hopkins University for 37 years. The cause 
 BROWNE-D. Stuart, age 52, of Mayfield, East Sussex, UK, on November 11, 1999, at home. Loving husband of Kathryn Pogson, father of Daisy and April and son of Tom & Phyl. Playwright, professor of dramatic writing and author of ''Dangerous Parking.'' Funeral service at 2 PM Friday, November 1
 HOCHBERG-Max. Died Nov. 11, 1999. He founded the Hochberg Bros. Painting Co. in 1929 and the JM Charles Painting Co. In 1967, and remained an active partner until his retirement at age 90. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Ida and daughters Alice and Beverly. He is survived by his daug
 KARYO-Isaac Andre, age 92. Beloved husband of Louise for 65 years, loving father of Catherine and Stephen Shiff, of Jericho, NY. Armand & Rita Karyo, of Roslyn, NY, Richard and Arlene Karyo, of Boca Raton, FL, Michele and Lois Karyo, of Boca Raton, Fl. Adoring grandfather of Jeffrey, Natali
 LARKIN-Mark D., age 79, of New York City. Died on November 13, 1999, while traveling in Yazd, Iran. He was the beloved husband of Linda Hess Larkin; father of Michael Larkin of San Francisco, California, and retired partner of PriceWaterhouseCoopers. A memorial service will be held at All S
 MALINO-John. We have lost a truly great friend and mentor and the world has lost an extraordinary human being. We already miss John's wisdom, friendship and humanity. The Mallah and Major Families MALINO-John G. An honorable professional, and a loyal and good friend for 30 years. He
 PODESTA-Frederick J. On November 15, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lillian (nee Daly). Fred Podesta has been associated with Madison Square Garden for more than 25 years in executive capacities as Vice President, Publicity, Advertising & Promotion Director. He was also General Manager o
 REIMER-J. Squier. Of Katonah, New York. Died at his home on November 17, 1999. He was 67 years old and was born October 21, 1932 in New York, N.Y. to Otto and Ursula Squier Reimer. He attended and graduated from The Choate Rosemary Hall School and Princeton University. Mr. Reimer served in 
 SANDERS-Milton L. 81, beloved husband of Audrey; devoted father of Judith, Jane and Betty-Ann; caring father in-law of Michael and William; loving papa of Jonathan, Rebecca and Elizabeth; dearest brother of Beatrice. Milton was House Counsel and Treasurer of Yellow Book U.S.A.; co-founder o
 SPATZ-Leo. Passed away peacefully on November 14. Beloved brother of Theodore Spatz and Dorothy Waldman, and the late Bella Kahane. He is also survived by many loving nieces and nephews. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched with his gentle soul.       
 Horst P. Horst, a master of light and deep shadow whose photographs of fashion and fashionable creatures like Coco Chanel, Marlene Dietrich and Noel Coward evoked the glamorous 1930's as well as his own chic circle in Paris, died yesterday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 93. 
 John G. Malino, an executive with the Loews Corporation in New York who oversaw all its real estate activities, died Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 60. He died of complications from heart surgery performed last month, said Candace Leeds, a spokeswoman for Loews. M
 LaNoue Davenport, a pioneering figure in the revival of early music and period instruments and a former leader of the acclaimed ensemble New York Pro Musica and the American Recorder Society, died on Nov. 4 at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 77 and had been suffering from em
 BEER-Fred J.. Died on November 17, 1999 at the age of 104. Survived by his beloved nephew, Jochanan Beer and his dear relative Marion Samuels. Graveside service Sunday 11AM at New Cedar Park Cemetery, Westwood New Jersey.       
 CHAMIDES-Eugene. Of Chicago, formerly of Somerset NJ at age 65 after a long illness. Loving father of David (Nancy), dear brother of Steve (Helen) and Robert (Sonia). Beloved husband of the late Lucia nee Tompkins, and survived by his second wife Barbara nee Kopp of Chicago. Services Monday
 FELD-Philip., of Bay Harbor Islands, Fla., formerly of Bronx, New York, passed away Thursday, Nov. 18, 1999. He is the beloved husband of Pearl Feld. Loving father of Barbara Feld Socor, Judith Feld, and Leslie Feld. Dear brother of Bernard (Beverley) Feld. Graveside services 10:30 A.M. tod
 GALLAGHER-Thomas F.., 87. A retired advertising executive with Joseph E. Seagram and Sons died on November 16, 1999 at his home in New Canaan, CT. He leaves his beloved wife of 57 years, Mary Ann O'Shea and children, Paul, Joan, and Peter; and six grandchildren. A Mass will be held at 11AM,
 KOEVARY-Theodore., peacefully on November 16. Loving husband of Lilla. Devoted father of Richard and the late George. Adored father-in-law, grandfather, brother and uncle. A pillar of strength, he dazzled us with his intellect, amused us with his stories, and inspired us with his piety and 
 LARKIN-Mark D.., age 79, of New York City. Died on November 13, 1999, while traveling in Yazd, Iran. He was the beloved husband of Linda Hess Larkin; father of Michael Larkin of San Francisco, California, and retired partner of PriceWaterhouseCoopers. A memorial service will be held at All 
 LESEROWITZ-Nathaniel E.. Age 47, suddenly on November 11, 1999. Survived by his stepfather and mother, Irving and Gertrude Leserowitz Wolfe, wife Dr. Freya Schnabel, daughters Yonah, Talya, brother Fred, in-laws, nieces and nephews, friend, counselor and teacher. Donations may be sent to In
 MERSON-Carl. November 8, 1999, three weeks before his 89th birthday. He lived a long and full life. Until his retirement, he had been a proprietor of B.A.M. Liquors in Mt. Vernon, a former liquor salesman, and a member of the Liquor Sales Union. In addition to his intellect and sincerity, h
 MOLONEY-Jay. 35, of Los Angeles, California, died on November 16, 1999. Born on Novermber 14, 1964 in Malibu, California, Jay graduated from the University of Southern California Film School. After beginning his career in the mailroom, Jay rose to become a former Managing Partner of Creativ
 NOLAN-William J. Jr. Of Irvington-on-Hudson, New York and Avon, Connecticut, died on November 17. The cause of death was prostate cancer. Mr. Nolan was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1919. He was a graduate of Milton Academy (1937), Yale University (1941) and Yale Law School (1943). He
 PALESTIN-Seymour J.., age 85, of New York City, on November 16, 1999. Loving husband of the late Nemone Balfour Palestin. Stepfather of Grania Brolin. Also survived by his sister-in-law Beatrice Palestin, his nephews, Jonathan and Matthew Pincus, and many devoted friends. A memorial service
 RAE-Gene G.. Of Guilford, CT who died at the age of 85 after a short illness, was born in the Ridgewood section of Queens, NY where he attended Newton High school. He graduated from the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute with a degree in electrical engineering. He went to work for the Holophane
 REIMER-J. Squier. Of Katonah, New York. Died at his home on November 17, 1999. He was 67 years old and was born October 21, 1932 in New York, N.Y. to Otto and Ursula Squier Reimer. He attended and graduated from The Choate Rosemary Hall School and Princeton University. Mr. Reimer served in 
 ROSS-James P.. 87 of Kennebunk, ME, formerly of New York, NY. Died Wednesday in Maine. Attorney for 20 years with General Dynamics in New York and St. Louis. Predeceased by his wife Rita (McDonnell) Ross. Father to Gerard, Brian, David, James, Rita Tubman, and Joanne Zelmann Ross. Brother t
 STONE-Lauson Harvey. The Horace Mann Community deeply mourns the loss of our cherished friend, former student and esteemed member of Horace Mann's Board of Trustees, Lauson Harvey Stone, HM '21. A graudate of Harvard College and Columbia University Law School, Mr. Stone first served on the 
 VANDERPUTTEN - Herbert Joseph. Of New York City, formerly of Westbury, LI. On November 12, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth, his wife of 59 years. Devoted father of Peter (deceased), Thomas, Gary and James. Loving father-inlaw of Joan, Jan and Jill. Cherished grandfather of Christine, Michael,
 YAFFA-Louis. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of Earle and Beth, Ellie and the late Michael. Cherished grandfather of Nancy, Kimberly, Charles, Jessica and Josh. Great-grandfather of Katie, Max and Gabe. Service Sunday 12 noon at Congregation B'nai Yisrael, Bedford Rd, Armonk, NY.
 Paul Bowles, the novelist, composer, poet and quintessential outsider of American literature, died of a heart attack yesterday in a hospital in Tangier, Morocco. He was 88, and throughout his extraordinary career evoked a world of dark Moroccan streets and scorching deserts, a haze of hashi
 Dr. Alfred Hassig, who was convicted last year of letting H.I.V.-infected blood be distributed to hemophiliacs in Switzerland, died here on Sunday. He was 78. Dr. Hassig presided over an inglorious chapter in public medicine as director of the Swiss Red Cross blood-transfusion servi
 Arnolds Sturms, a New York-based composer, flutist and music critic, died on Nov. 7 at the Isabella Geriatric Center in Washington Heights. He was 87. He was born in Dobele, Latvia, and graduated with honors from the State Conservatory of Music in Riga. He later played with the Latv
 David Shaber, a producer and writer for the screen and stage, died on Nov. 4 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and had homes in Manhattan and Roxbury, Conn. The cause was an aneurysm, said his wife, Alice. Mr. Shaber wrote 40 commissioned screenplays, 8 of whic
 Eugene J. Bockman, a longtime archivist and librarian for the City of New York, died on Nov. 8 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. He had Parkinson's disease and had suffered a stroke, said his wife, Miriam. Mr. Bockman rescued some of the original 
 Hank Messick, an author and investigative journalist who wrote extensively about organized crime, died on Nov. 6 at his home in Cocoa, Fla., after a long illness. He was 77 and suffered from Sjogren's syndrome, an autoimmune disease, said his wife, Faye. Mr. Messick wrote 19
 Minos Volanakis, a translator and director who specialized in ancient Greek plays, died on Sunday in Athens, where he lived. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Early on Mr. Volanakis distinguished himself with his translations of Jean Gen
 BIONDO-Francis X., PhD.. The Medical staff of Jamaica Hospital Medical Center mourns the passing of Francis X. Biondo, PhD, Secretary of The Board of Trustees. His support and fervor were instrumental in achieving the remarkeable progress at our institution. We will miss our colleague. Anth
 BIONDO-Frank X., Ph.D.., of Oyster Bay, NY, on November 18, 1999 at the age of 72. Beloved husband of Arlene. Devoted father of Catherine. Dear brother of Dr. Vincent (Mary) Biondo, May G. Biondo, and Josephine Rizzuti. Brother-inlaw of Arthur N. (Lynn) Boulanger. Uncle of Maryann Montalban
 DUFFY-Michael J.., Rev., 66, Maryknoll Missioner to Africa, died Nov. 16, 1999. He is survived by mother, Janet Duffy; brothers, Edward, John, and Daniel Duffy; and sisters, Janet Bruce, Angela Galascione, and Sharon Duffy. Wake services at Maryknoll Center, Ossining, N.Y., Sunday, 7PM. Mas
 HOULTON-William. Died on November 18, at Mount Sinai Hospital of pneumonia. He was the adored husband of the late writer Peggy Mann and is survived by daughters Betsy and Jennifer, sonin-law Kosmo Vinyl and grandsons Jack Atticus and Charlie Paris. He was treasured by many. We will miss you
 KAPLAN-Samuel. At age 82 on November 18, 1999. Beloved husband of Florence for 58 years. Loving father of Judy and Stan Bass and Daya Kaplan. Proud grandfather of Jeremy Bass. He will be missed by all.       
 LORD-J. Couper. The Board of Directors and membership of the Bathing Corporation express great sadness at the recent passing of our most worthy and esteemed Director of 38 years and extend our deepest sympathy to Barbara and his family.       
 SANGER-Elliott M. Jr. On Friday, November 19, 1999, after a long illness, at age 77. Beloved husband of Joan B. Sanger. Adored father of Elizabeth Sanger and father-inlaw of Jeffrey Trachtenberg, devoted brother of Kenneth E. Loving son of Eleanor N. Also adored grandfather of Benjamin and 
 SCHAEFER-Charles V. Jr. age 85 of Saddle River died Thursday, November 18, 1999 in Boca Raton, Florida. Born in Brooklyn, New York, he was a resident of Saddle River and formerly of Ridgewood. A graduate mechanical engineer from Stevens Institute of Technology '36, Mr. Schaefer was later aw
 SEEGER-Rev. Peter J.. On November 18, 1999. Former Pastor of Most Holy Trinity RC Church , Willimburg, Brooklyn, NY and St. Fidelis RC Church, College Point, NY. Devoted brother of Andrew, Father Francis, Caroline, Teresa Arkins, the late Arthur, the late Robert and the late Sr. Vivian Seeg
 TEDESCHI-John. Died November 5, 1999 of asbestos cancer. He was an employee of The New York Times for thirty-five years. He also worked in the Brooklyn Navy Yard and served on ships in World War II and Korea. He is survived by loving wife Josephine, beloved daughters Marie Kossman (John) an
 YAFFA-Louis. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of Earle and Beth, Ellie and the late Michael. Cherished grandfather of Nancy, Kimberly, Charles, Jessica and Josh. Great-grandfather of Katie, Max and Gabe. Service Sunday 12 noon at Congregation B'nai Yisrael, Bedford Rd, Armonk, NY.
 Amintore Fanfani, who was prime minister of Italy six times and President of the United Nations General Assembly in the 1960's, died today after a long illness. He was 91. Mr. Fanfani, a senator for life, had returned home this morning after a month's hospitalization for treatment o
 Charles E. Odegaard, who was president of the University of Washington during years when it expanded greatly, and was a nationally prominent expert on education in the health sciences, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Seattle. He was 88. Dr. Odegaard, whose doctorate was in medieval h
 Elliott M. Sanger Jr., a news producer for WQXR, the radio station owned by The New York Times, and a corporate relations executive for The New York Times Company, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said his wife, Joan Sanger.   
 H. Clay Earles, who 53 years ago carved a hardscrabble racetrack out of the red clay of southern Virginia and then painstakingly turned it into a cash-spewing shrine to the cult of the stock car, died Tuesday at his home in Martinsville, Va. He was 86. Earles's Martinsville Speedway
 ATKIN-John D. Of Darien, CT on November 11, 1999 at Stamford Hospital. John was internationally acclaimed in the boating business, both as a yacht designer and yacht surveyor. He was the son of William ''Billy'' and Dorcas Atkin. His father had started on a career of designing and building 
 BAKEWELL-Anderson, the Rev. Reverend Anderson Bakewell, a Jesuit priest, missionary, mountain climber and explorer died of cancer at his home in Santa Fe, New Mexico on October 13, 1999. He was 86. Fr. Bakewell was born in St. Louis, MO. He graduated from St. Louis University in 1937. In 19
 DANKS-Robert Douglas. Died November 18, in Palm Beach, FL, at the age of 97. Founding Partner of Ernst and Co., and former Governor of the New York Stock Exchange. Fomrer resident of Rye, NY. Beloved husband of the late Anne Danks. Survived by his wife Gil and daughter Evelyn Corbetta of Da
 DANSKY-Sanford. Loving husband of Rita. Adoring father of Julie and father-in-law of Craig Hazen. The most wonderful Pop-Pop in the world to his grandson Mick. Devoted brother of Ilene Lasker. Decorated WW II fighter pilot with the Flying Tigers. You're missed beyond words and will live in 
 DUFFY-Michael J., Rev., 66, Maryknoll Missioner to Africa, died Nov. 16, 1999. He is survived by mother, Janet Duffy; brothers, Edward, John, and Daniel Duffy; and sisters, Janet Bruce, Angela Galascione, and Sharon Duffy. Wake services at Maryknoll Center, Ossining, N.Y., Sunday, 7PM. Mass
 EHRLICH-Stanley L. Of Short Hills, NJ. On Friday, November 19, 1999. Husband of the late Phyllis Dettelbach Ehrlich. Survived by son, David Ehrlich and his wife Joanne, and grandson Alexander. Memorial service at Smith and Smith (Suburban), 415 Morris Avenue, Springfield, NJ on Sunday, Nove
 HAMMERMAN-Bernard. On November 19, 1999. Born July 15, 1923. Devoted son of the late Louis and Rose Hammerman. Loving husband of Joan. Father of Darcy (Allen), Brett (Diana) and Robert (Wendy). Adoring grandfather of Harley, Jeremy, Sloane and Maris. Precious brother of Ben (Lorelei), Goldi
 KREINES-James. The Board of Directors and staff of Washington Cemetery note with sadness the loss of its esteemed Secretary and Director. His wise contribution to the operations of the cemetery will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Barbara and the entire Kreine
 LEVEY-Sylvan. 78. Champion of the truth, seeker of the light. He will be greatly missed by his wife, Faye; his daughter, Jill; son in-law Cob; granddaughter, Maya Tilly; and by the scores of friends for whom he was mentor, counselor and incomparable friend. Services Sunday 3 PM, Plaza Memor
 LEVIN-Alfred C., Doctor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, age 75, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL, on November 17, 1999, after a long illness. A close friend of 73 years. We will deeply miss his love of life and wonderful sense of humor. Our profoundest sympathy to his wife Corinne and other family m
 LORD-J. Couper, 81. Of Southampton, N.Y. On November 17, 1999. Husband of Barbara Hartley, father of J. Couper Lord, Jr, MaryLouise Lord Gillespie, Barbara Lord Edwards and the late Ruth Lord. Grandfather of Hartley and Eleanor Gillespie, Lorrie, Caroline and Courtney Edwards. Funeral servi
 POPKIN-George, MD. Esteemed colleague, teacher and friend will be missed by his patients, students, associates and staff. George was a pioneer in skin surgery. Foreign and American dermatologists were welcome to the New York University Medical Center and Bethpage office to observe his work.
 RADER-Kenneth ''Ken''. Passed away November 14, 1999, of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Merrick, Long Island. Loving husband of Cecelia ''Cis'' to whom he was married 61 years. Adored father of Linda (Gershon) Yarmack and Roger Rader. Cherished grandfather of Robert, David, Emily and Ian.
 ROBINS-Harold. On November 20, 1999, peacefully in the home that he loved. Adored husband of Cherry Balaban Robins. Cherished father of Anthony, Jessica and Donald, and loving father-in-law of Susan, Peter and Kayko. Proud grandfather of Nina, Lucy, Caitlin, Joseph, Niki and Michael. Devote
 ROSS-Donald J. Of Tucson, AZ passed away November 16, 1999 in Douglas County, CO. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, September 11, 1927. Don attended both Syracuse and Rutgers Universities before active duty in the Army in World War II. Upon his return he completed his studies at the University o
 ROTH-Frank. 78, of Lakeville, CT, formerly of Roslyn, NY. Loving husband and best friend of Barbara for 50 years. Cherished father of Ellyn Mittman, Stuart Roth and Peter Roth, and father-in-law of Larry Mittman, Elizabeth Roth and Michelle Roth. Beloved grandfather of Wesley and Jordan Mit
 SANGER-Elliott M. Jr. On Friday, November 19, 1999, after a long illness, at age 77. Beloved husband of Joan B. Sanger. Adored father of Elizabeth Sanger and father-inlaw of Jeffrey Trachtenberg, devoted brother of Kenneth E. Loving son of Eleanor N. Also adored grandfather of Benjamin and 
 TEDESCHI-John. Died November 5, 1999 of asbestos cancer. He was an employee of The New York Times for thirty-five years. He also worked in the Brooklyn Navy Yard and served on ships in World War II and Korea. He is survived by loving wife Josephine, beloved daughters Marie Kossman (John) an
 KLEBAN-Francis J. 1909-1995. Lovingly remembered by his family.       
 TRACT-Harold M. Of blessed memory. Passed away November 18, 1991. He was a truly noble man       
 Peter Wildeblood, a former journalist and television producer whose personal war against British law helped lead to the decriminalization of homosexuality in 1967, died on Nov. 13 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 76. The cause of death was complications resulting from a paraly
 Doug Sahm, a patriarch of Texas rock and country music, was found dead on Thursday in Taos, N.M., The Associated Press reported. He was 58 and lived in Austin. A Taos police spokesman said he appeared to have died of natural causes. An autopsy was ordered. Mr. Sahm had been 
 Faubion Bowers, an American linguist, critic and writer on the arts who helped preserve Kabuki, the popular drama of Japan, when occupation authorities sought to ban it as a relic of a feudal society after World War II, died on Tuesday at his Manhattan home. He was 82. The cause was
 John D. Le Vien, a documentary film producer nominated for two Oscars, died on Nov. 9 at a hospital in London, where he had lived for the last 30 years. He was 81. Mr. Le Vien was also executive producer of ''Black Fox,'' a 90-minute film about Hitler that was narrated by Marlene Di
 CHIZNER-Richard. The Board of Governors of Inwood Country Club record with sorrow the passing of our Vice President, Richard Chizner. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Judith, his adoring children and grandchildren. We will miss you. The Board of Governors of Inwood Countr
 DANKS-Robert Douglas. Died November 18, in Palm Beach, FL, at the age of 97. Founding Partner of Ernst and Co., and former Governor of the New York Stock Exchange. Fomrer resident of Rye, NY. Beloved husband of the late Anne Danks. Survived by his wife Gil and daughter Evelyn Corbetta of Da
 DARHANSOFF-Martin T. Died at New York Presbyterian Hospital on November 19, 1999, at age 66. Beloved husband of Leslie; devoted and loving father of Jeremy; dear brother of Margo; and uncle of Heather and Brad. Wonderful friend and supporter to many who depended upon his professional advice
 EHRLICH-Stanley L. Of Short Hills, NJ. On Friday, November 19, 1999. Husband of the late Phyllis Dettelbach Ehrlich. Survived by son, David Ehrlich and his wife Joanne, and grandson Alexander. Memorial service at Smith and Smith (Suburban), 415 Morris Avenue, Springfield, NJ on Sunday, Nove
 GOLDFEDER - Samuel. Died peacefully at 85 in Ft. Lauderdale. A sweet and caring man who deeply loved his family. Survived by Rose, wife of 59 years; children Edward (Phyllis) and Jerry (Alice Yaker); and grandchildren Michelle, Lisa, Peter (Larissa) and Carly; and sister Laura. Shiva at Jer
 HAMMERMAN-Bernard. On November 19, 1999. Born July 15, 1923. Devoted son of the late Louis and Rose Hammerman. Loving husband of Joan; father of Darcy (Allen), Brett (Dana) and Robert (Wendy). Adoring grandfather of Harley, Jeremy, Sloane and Maris. Precious brother of Ben (Lorelei), Goldie
 ROTH-Frank. 78, of Lakeville, CT, formerly of Roslyn, NY. Loving husband and best friend of Barbara for 50 years. Cherished father of Ellyn Mittman, Stuart Roth and Peter Roth, and father-in-law of Larry Mittman, Elizabeth Roth and Michelle Roth. Beloved grandfather of Wesley and Jordan Mit
 SANGER-Elliott M. Jr. On Friday, November 19, 1999, after a long illness, at age 77. Beloved husband of Joan B. Sanger. Adored father of Elizabeth Sanger and father-inlaw of Jeffrey Trachtenberg, devoted brother of Kenneth E. Loving son of Eleanor N. Also adored grandfather of Benjamin and 
 Quentin Crisp, the British-born writer, raconteur and actor who found fame at 59 when he published ''The Naked Civil Servant,'' an account of his openly homosexual life in London, and who found happiness when he moved to New York at 72, died yesterday in Manchester, England. He was 90.     
 William E. Nickerson, who made millions of dollars from real estate investments and millions more writing books telling others how to do the same thing, died on Oct. 19 at his home in Capitola, Calif. He was 91. Reflecting his strong religious beliefs as a lifelong Congregationalist
 Dr. Alvin D. Coox, a former professor of Asian studies at San Diego State University who called attention to the importance of an obscure but critical military campaign in World War II, died on Nov. 4 in a hospice in San Diego. He was 75. Dr. Coox (pronounced cooks) died after a lon
 Frank E. Taylor, a longtime book publisher who was editor in chief and general manager of the McGraw Hill Book Company's trade-book division and publisher of Avon Books for the Hearst Corporation, died on Nov. 16 at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Taylor, who also worked i
 Howard Ferguson, a British musician internationally known for his editions of early keyboard music and of Schubert's complete piano works, died on Nov. 1 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 91. Mr. Ferguson was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and trained in London, where he
 AWERDICK-John H. The law firm of Hall Dickler Kent Friedman & Wood mourns with deep sorrow the passing of our partner and friend, John H. Awerdick. We will miss, but always remember joyously, John's dynamic personality, team spirit, and the friendship he extended to us all. We offer heart f
 DUCHAN-Ira. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Loving father of Joan, Linda, Brian and Bill. Proud grandfather of five. Devoted brother of Irving and the late Simon. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, at ''Sinai Chapels'', Fresh Meadows, New York. DUCHAN-Ira. The world us a sadder place for havi
 EHRLICH-Stanley L. Of Short Hills, NJ. On Friday, November 19, 1999. Husband of the late Phyllis Dettelbach Ehrlich. Survived by son, David Ehrlich and his wife Joanne, and grandson Alexander. Memorial service at Smith and Smith (Suburban), 415 Morris Avenue, Springfield, NJ on Sunday, Nove
 GONZALEZ-Louis, Jr. (Clyde Cordey). On November 21, 1999 at age 62. Survived by his life partner Patrick Lannon, sisters Gloria Gonzalez and Sally Marfisi, beloved niece Jeanine Pagan, and his family of friends, who will miss him dearly.       
 LEEDS-Steven. Temple Israel, Lawrence mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to his bereaved family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Alan J. Hartstein, President       
 LORD-J. Couper. The Trustees of St. Andrew's Dune Church mourn the departure of one of our greatest leaders, the third longest-serving Trustee in the 121 years since our founding, the longest serving Trustee officer and the longest serving President of the Trustees. Coupie served with 36 of
 MINER-Jack P. On Monday, November 22, 1999. 90 years young. Beloved husband of 62 years of Rose. Devoted father of Phyllis & Harvey Granat & Carla & Martin P. Miner. Adored grandfather of Steven and Stacey Granat, Cheryl & Eugene Segall, Cary and Evelyn Granat, Colin Miner and David and Jen
 ORLANDO-Carl. Age 84. An inventor with some twenty patents. He lived in Italy, New York, and New Jersey, graduated from Columbia and Rochester Universities. He was a Navy Veteran of WWII. He was the creator of a non-invasive heart and breathing monitor. He was Chairman and founder of SensoT
 RICHEY-Dennis R., 46, of West Hartford, CT, died suddenly at his home on November 20. He was the beloved husband of Nancy Maggard and is survived by his four children, William Drake, Elizabeth Grace, Anne Stoddard, John Rutherford, and his cousin, Audrey Peckner of West Palm Beach, Florida.
 SLIFKA-Martin, passed away on Sunday, November 21, 1999, age 94, peacefully at his home in Palm Beach, Florida. Dearest, most beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Robert and Rhoda Slifka, Joan Slifka, and Richard Slifka. Loving grandfather of Hy Goldburg, Nancy Goldburg, Linda and Bo
 WILLIAMS-Edward ''NIK'' James. November 17, 1999, at age 50. Leader and innovator in the global art movement. In his most recent endeavor, he conceived of and was leading the development of the Beecher Center for Art and Technology at the Butler Museum in Youngstown, Ohio. He is survived by
 Serge Lang, a French sportswriter who helped create skiing's biggest and most successful tour, the World Cup, died Sunday in Sternenberg, in the Alsace region of France. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the United States Ski and Snowboard Asso
 Flavio Rodriguez da Costa, the Brazilian soccer coach whose 23-year professional career was overshadowed by his national team's loss to underdog Uruguay in the 1950 World Cup final, died on Monday at a hospital in Rio de Janeiro. He was 93. Da Costa, a native of Rio, began his socce
 Gene Levitt, a television writer, director and producer who created ''Fantasy Island,'' a popular show in the late 1970's, died on Nov. 15 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Diana. Born in Brooklyn on May 28, 1920, Mr. Levitt
 John Benson Brooks, a jazz composer, arranger and songwriter, died on Nov. 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. An early composition, ''Just as Though You Were Here'' (1942), with lyrics by Eddie DeLange, brought Mr. Brooks prominence. The song was recorded by Tommy Dorsey's band
 ARRIAN-Murray. Died November 21, 1999 in West Palm Beach, Fla. at age 78. Formerly of NYC. Beloved husband of Claire for 56 years, devoted father of Barbara and Shelley and father-in-law to Mark Gelblat and Howard Fleit. Adoring grandfather to Dana and Kenneth Burton, Halayne Gelblat, Rache
 GONZALEZ-Louis, Jr. (Clyde Cordey). On November 21, 1999 at age 62. Survived by his life partner Patrick Lannon, sisters Gloria Gonzalez and Sally Marfisi, beloved niece Jeanine Pagan, and his family of friends, who will miss him dearly.       
 KAPLAN-Seymour ''Cy'', 79, television syndication executive, on Oct. 23, 1999. He is survived by his daughter Jane (Matt) and grandchildren Jonathan and Emily.       
 KAUFMAN-Raymond Lee. Loving father and grandfather, passed away on November 22, 1999 in Santa Monica, CA. He was 70 years old. He will be remembered for his style, compassion and sparkling humor. Ray is survived by his daughter Ilene and husband David and grandson Gabriel, son John, daughte
 KONSTANDT-George. November 23, 1999. We are all the lesser for the loss of an extraordinary man. Survived by his wife & life partner Theo, children Sari, David, Mark, Lisa and Ken, brothers and sister Andy, Cheryl and Larry, granddaughters Addison and Daryl, and his parents Ann and Felix. P
 SCHWARTZ-Harry, 99, of Hollywood, Florida, formerly of NYC. Passed away November 22, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Loving father of Arnold and Eileen Schwartz and Ruth and David Schwab. Loving and much loved Grandpa Harry to his five grandchildren, their spouses, and his twelve
 STUPAK-Max. On November 22, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Mollie; loving father of Herbert and Anna, Elliot and Susan. Adoring grandfather of nine and greatgrandfather of five. He will be deeply missed. Service Wednesday 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 ZWIKELBERG-Matys. On Nov. 22, 1999. Cantor, beloved father, grandfather and brother. Survived the Holocaust. Services at 1 PM Wednesday, at Parkside Chapel, Flatbush, Brooklyn. We will always remember him singing.       
 Rear Adm. Walter Chilcott Ford, a destroyer commander in World War II and the executive director of the newborn Central Intelligence Agency in the later 1940's, died on Saturday at the Mariner Health facility in Bethesda, Md. He lived in Annapolis and would have turned 96 this week.        
 Wallace R. Persons, who in nearly 20 years as chief executive, expanded the Emerson Electric Company from a small regional appliance maker into a diversified industrial manufacturer, died on Sunday in St. Louis, the company said. He was 90. Mr. Persons, who was known as Buck, joined
 Bernard Klatzko, a researcher, author and record producer specializing in acoustic blues and early jazz, died on Nov. 15 at North Shore Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was complications following lymphoma, said Barbara Dolan, a friend. In the mid-1960's Mr. 
 Charles V. Schaefer Jr., a New Jersey businessman who became a major benefactor of Stevens Institute of Technology and chairman of its board, died on Nov. 18 at the North Ridge Medical Center in Oakland Park, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Saddle River, N.J. Mr. Schaefer was born in Br
 John G. Stewart, former manager of The New York Times Book Division, died on Tuesday at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 80. He had a brief illness, his wife, Linda, said. Mr. Stewart was born in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., grew up there, graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and
 Lee C. Shaw, who helped draw much of the road map for modern labor law and then used it to help corporations negotiate with unions, died of a heart attack on Nov. 15 at his home in San Diego. He was 86. Mr. Shaw helped draft the nation's guide to employer-employee negotiations, the 
 DEPASQUALE-John A.., M.D. of Wethersfield, CT., and Pompano Beach, FL died peacefully in his sleep on November 23rd due to cumulative effects from a past stroke. Dr. DePasquale earned his Doctor of Medicine degree in 1936 from the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. He was an outstan
 DUIZEND-Henri. The Conservative Synagogue of Jamaica Estates mourns the demise, in Israel, of Henri Duizend, our first president. He was a driving force in the creation of our synagogue. To Lies we extend our sincerest condolence.       
 ELEM-Samuel A.. Age 88, of N. Miami Beach, FL., on November 20, 1999 after a brief illness. He was a master jeweler and the owner of Bertel Jewelers of NYC. He leaves his wife of 38 years, Esther Kaplan Elem; his daughter, Cathy Hollis and husband Glenn; and a sister, Ethel Liebowitz. He is
 FLUSS-Yeshaya. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Hersch Fluss on the loss of his brother. May the family be conforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 LEVINE-David. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, David Levine. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Betty, and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary       
 STUPAK-Max. West Side Jewish Center (34th St.) mourns the passing of our devoted life member Max Stupak, a dedicated, generous and cherished member and friend who will be missed beyond words. Our most heartfelt condolences to his beloved family.       
 WARMINGTON-Newton D., M.D.. The Administration, Faculty, Staff, & Students of the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center mourn the passing of Newton D. Warmington, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology. Dr. Warmington was a 1989 graduate of the College of Medicine. We
 WEILLER-Herman Emil. Of Larchmont, NY on November 23, 1999. Mr. Weiller is survived by two daughters, Cathy Buchalter and Ruth Weiller. He is also survived by two sons-in-law, Terry Buchalter and Randall Clare, two grandchildren Dana and Jonathan Buchalter, and his companion of eighteen yea
 Stanley Frankel, a journalist, corporate executive and speechwriter for Democratic presidential candidates, including Adlai E. Stevenson, Robert F. Kennedy, Hubert H. Humphrey, George McGovern and Walter F. Mondale, died on Nov. 12 in a New York City hospital. He was 80. Mr. Frankel
 Ernest Leonard Signorelli, a maverick Republican who served Suffolk County as a judge for 35 years before retiring as its surrogate in 1995, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Center Moriches, N.Y. He was 75 and most recently lived in Manorville, N.Y., and St. Petersburg, Fla. He
 George Arthur Stinson, who managed two highly successful careers as a tax lawyer on Wall Street and as a steel magnate in Pittsburgh, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Tryon, N.C., where he had retired in 1983. He was 84. The cause was complications from cancer, his family said.       
 DREW-Dr. Gerald M. On Nov. 24, 1999. Beloved husband to Selma, loving father to David and Jenny. Esteemed colleague, mentor and loyal friend. Dr. Drew, University of Michigan Dental School, 1948, practiced fifty years with outstanding expertise and unequalled passion. He was a retired U.S. 
 MANKIN-David S. His promise, strength and courage will be remembered with pride and love. The face we no longer see with our eyes never leaves our hearts. Our hearts are with your soul. Your loving family.       
 Bishop George Papaioannou of New Jersey, who became the first married priest to be elevated to the rank of bishop in the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America, died on Monday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 66. The cause was a stroke, the archdiocese said. Bishop George collap
 Calvin Dodd MacCracken, an inventor and founder of his own creative engineering firm in Englewood, N.J., died Nov. 10 at Kendall at Hanover, a retirement community in New Hampshire. A former resident of Englewood, he was 79 and lived in Hanover and West Cornwall, Conn. The cause was
 Louis Wilson Menk, a railroad entrepreneur who wove three medium-size companies into the much larger Burlington Northern, then went to the rescue of a faltering industrial giant, International Harvester, died Tuesday at his home in Carefree, Ariz., a suburb of Phoenix. He was 81. Th
 GALLAGHER-Grace S.. The Board, Members and Staff of Greater New York Hospital Association express our condolences to our esteemed colleague, Jack Gallagher, Chief Executive Officer of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Healthcare System, on the passing of his beloved wife, Grace. We extend 
 GREENWALD-Stephen. On November 25, 1999. Survived and deeply mourned by his wife Lita, his sister Rita Klein, numerous nieces and nephews and a multitude of friends. Services 12 noon Sunday, November 28th, East 55th Conservative Synagogue, 308 East 55 Street. In lieu of flowers contribution
 KOVACS-John J.. Of Amston, CT, died peacefully on Wednesday, November 24, at age 91, at the Marlborough Health Care Center, Marlborough, CT. He was born in Spuyten Duyvil in the Bronx, NY and was formerly of Point Pleasant Beach, NJ. His funeral service will be Tuesday at 11:30AM at St. Fra
 O'DONNELL-Frank X., Jr.. died in his ninetieth year on Monday, November 22, 1999 at home in Atlanta, GA. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Myers O'Donnell, father of Frank X. O'Donnell III of Atlanta and Carolyn O'Donnell Consor of New York City, he is also survived by seven grandchildre
 HE looks devastated. But then Ralph Fiennes always looks as if he is caught between deep melancholy and outright despair. It must be something about the roles he takes, or the way his mouth turns down at the corners, because his demeanor, while not exactly jaunty, is certainly sporting. Tol
 ALFUS-Maurice. Beloved father of Phillip, cherished brother to Helen & uncle to Jacques and Liane. An admired colleague to those at the DBC and respected member of Honors. A life well lived, a fighter who always had time to listen. Funeral services to be held at Riverside Memorial, 10:45 A.
 ESIASON-Norman H.. On November 25, 1999, of East Islip, NY. WW II veteran and Columbia University graduate. Beloved husband of the late Irene Thumer. Loving father of Robin, Susan and Norman J. Grandfather of five. Brother of Roy and Verne. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 No
 GALLAGHER-Grace S.. The Board, Members and Staff of Greater New York Hospital Association express our condolences to our esteemed colleague, Jack Gallagher, Chief Executive Officer of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Healthcare System, on the passing of his beloved wife, Grace. We extend 
 GALLIGAN-Thomas Clavin, Sr. Age 91. Former Associate General Counsel of Colgate Palmolive. Died on November 24, 1999 at Blount Memorial Hospital, Maryville, TN. Orphaned at 9, Galligan moved to Montclair, NJ at 13 and graduated from Montclair H.S. in 1925. With the assistance of his Aunt Sa
 GOLDFARB - Max. Age 92, passsed away peacefully on Friday. Civil engineer employed by the city of New York for 41 years. Mourned by his beloved wife Julia, two children Dr. Paula Post and Barry Goldfarb, six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Services Sunday, 10 AM, at Schwartz Bro
 GORDON-Robert G.. Died November 17 in Hamilton, NY, a few days short of his seventieth birthday. After retiring as a member of the English faculty of Montclair State College in 1991, he moved to Hamilton to live near his alma mater, Colgate University. Earlier he had taught at the Englewood
 GREENWALD-Stephen. On November 25, 1999. Survived and deeply mourned by his wife Lita, his sister Rita Klein, numerous nieces and nephews and a multitude of friends. Services 12 noon Sunday, November 28th, East 55th Conservative Synagogue, 308 East 55 Street. In lieu of flowers contribution
 LEUCHS-Frederick Ludwig., 73, master stained glass artist of Stockbridge, Massachusetts, and St. Petersburg, FL, formerly of NYC, died Oct. 3. His work is found in Carnegie Hall, The Cloisters, Riverside Church, St. John the Divine, Church of the Heavenly Rest, St. Bartholomew's Church, Par
 REED-Donald Bailey. Of New Cannan, CT, and Isle of Palms, SC, died in Charleston, SC, November 26. Until his retirement he was President of Alice Mills, Inc, in NYC, previously with Cannon Mills and Deering-Milliken. A member of the New York Board of Trade, was active in the ''Made in Ameri
 SHERMAN-Philip. On Nov. 20, 1999. Beloved husband of Miriam, devoted father of Frederic (Margaret) and Deborah (Mark). Loving brother of Joseph and the late Bernard. Adored grandfather of Jerome, Daniel, Michael, Suzanne, Sara and Hannah. He was respected, esteemed and loved by his colleagu
 STEWART-John G.. Age 80, died after a brief illness, on November 23, at his home in Rumson, New Jersey. He is survived by his wife Linda; his sister, Jane Heckman of Lombard, IL; a son Mark Stewart of Monmouth Hills, NJ; a daughter Jennifer Stewart of Studio City, CA; three stepchildren and
 VON GRONICKA-Andre. Of Philadelphia, PA on November 23, 1999. Predeceased by his wife Hilde (nee Stock) von Gronicka (1997). Father of Andrea Rudner and Ingrid O'Riordan. Also survived by two grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. The funeral from the Thos L. Shin Funeral Home of Mana
 WEINER-Rhoda. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of the mother of our Rabbi Tom Weiner and extends sincere condolences to Tom and his entire family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Cantor Annie Lynn Bornstein Mark A. Hershey, President       
 Ashley Montagu, the London-born anthropologist and popular author whose energy, erudition and showmanship brought genetics, paleontology and other topics in the life sciences to a wide American audience, died on Friday in Princeton, N.J. He was 94. The author of more than 60 books, 
 ALEXANDER-Charles W. Suddenly on November 27, 1999. Loving husband and best friend of Rhoda Landau Alexander. Beloved father of Michael, Jimmy, JoAnn and Richard. Cherished brother of Ira. Devoted grandfather to Jessica, Jacob, Jack, Max, Luke and Noah. Admired fatherin-law of Jane, Kim, Ci
 CITRIN-Philip. Age 86, of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Glen Cove, NY, on November 27, 1999. Excellent husband to his beloved wife, Evelyn. Devoted father to Barbara and Jack Gattuso, Ava and Michael Dvoretz, Niles and Nancy Citrin. Adored Pop Pop of Suzanne, Brian, Steven, Todd, Jodi, E
 CONNORS-Donald F. Professor Emeritus at Fordham University, died at his home on Saturday, November 27, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Helen Newman Connors. He is survived by five sons, Dr. Donald F. Jr., Thomas, Michael, Edward and Christopher; two daughters, Harriette DeLuca and Helen B
 FARBER-Samuel. On November 27, 1999, age 94. Longtime resident of Brooklyn, recently of Boynton Beach, FL, and Southbury, CT. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Elizabeth Bernhardt and Anne Farber, and father-in-law of William Bernhardt and Richard Kaiser. Cherished grandfather o
 FITZGERALD-C. Winston. Age 77, on November 26, after a long illness. A native of Lynchburg, VA, Winston in the 50's was Alexander Greiner's assistant as Artist Liaison for Steinway & Sons. For S. Hurok, he served as manager for Marian Anderson's farewell tour and for Sviatoslav Richter's la
 KEYES-Fenton. Age 84, educator and author, of Pennswood Village, Newtown, PA, on November 27, 1999, after a brief illness. He is survived by Elizabeth Dix Keyes, his wife of 55 years; his son Charles Fenton Keyes of Washington, DC; his daughter, Janet Keyes O'Connell of Larchmont, NY; and f
 MILLER-Richard E. (Dick). On November 28, 1999. Former Art Director for Sports Illustrated. Combat veteran of the Korean War. He is survived by his loving companion Thomas Maguire and mourned by his many friends. Reposing Redden's Funeral Home, 325 West 14th St, NYC, Tuesday, 25 and 7-9 PM.
 ROBBINS-Bernard. On November 28, 1999, at age 86, after a brief illness. A violinist whose career included the Stradivarius String Quartet, the NBC String Quartet, the Stuyvesant String Quartet, the NBC Symphony Orchestra with Toscanini and the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. He was born i
 Stephen Greene, an abstract painter who whose sensuous brushwork and half-buried symbols synthesized elements of several postwar movements into a distinctive style, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Valley Cottage, N.Y., where he had lived for more than 40 years. He was 82. Throughout 
 Alain Peyrefitte, a French journalist, best-selling author, former cabinet minister and confidant of de Gaulle, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said the staff of Le Figaro, the conservative daily paper where he was editorial director. A member of 
 John J. Barrett, a Manhattan lawyer and former chairman of the New York Urban League, died on Friday  at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 95 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Barrett, a specialist in trusts and estates law, practiced in Manhattan for 71 years, most rece
 BARRETT-John J. Age 95, died November 26, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Josephine. Brother of Oscar, uncle of Audrey, Pamela and Cassin, loving greatuncle and great-great-uncle. Counsel to the firm of Kirkpatrick and Lockhart, and a Founding Partner of the former Barrett, Smith, Schapir
 BLOOMBERG-Allan E., MD. The Montefiore Staff and Alumni Association records with sorrow the loss of our esteemed past president and longstanding member of its Executive Committee. He will be remembered as an innovative and accomplished surgeon and a true gentleman. Our sincere condolences t
 BLUM-Anne. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the passing of the mother of our esteemed member Dr. Gerald Blum and extends to him and the family our heartfelt condolences.       
 BUNKER-Edmund Cason, 84, died November 28, after a long illness. Mr. Bunker was a pioneer in the field of Broadcasting, serving as Vice-president of Station Relations, Sales and The Corporation of CBS Inc., President of Radio Advertising Bureau, Director of Broadcasting for Foote, Cone and 
 CITRIN-Philip. Age 86, of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Glen Cove, NY, on November 27, 1999. Excellent husband to his beloved wife, Evelyn. Devoted father to Barbara and Jack Gattuso, Ava and Michael Dvoretz, Niles and Nancy Citrin. Adored Pop Pop of Suzanne, Brian, Steven, Todd, Jodi, E
 FARBER-Samuel. On November 27, 1999, age 94. Longtime resident of Brooklyn, recently of Boynton Beach, FL, and Southbury, CT. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Elizabeth Bernhardt and Anne Farber, and father-in-law of William Bernhardt and Richard Kaiser. Cherished grandfather o
 FINE-Philip, MD, of Marlboro, NJ, formerly of Woodmere, LI. Beloved husband of the late Constance, adored father of Cynthia (Dr. Stuart) Green, Barbara (Donald) Weber, and Mitchell (Tsivia) Fine. Cherished grandfather of 14 and great-grandfather of two. Major in Medical Corps of General Pat
 FREUDENBERGER-Herbert J. The Frankfurt born psychoanalyst and renowned author who coined the word ''burnout'' in the 1970's and gave a prescription for ''burnout'', died on Monday in New York City. He was 73. The author of more than 35 books and articles was awarded in September of 1999 in 
 JACOBS-Thomas L. Suddenly on 11/27/99. Beloved husband of Ann Harris-Jacobs and devoted father of Lauren. Retired Deputy Commissioner of Corrections; former Commissioner of Probation; Adjunct Professor at John Jay College. He will be missed by all who knew him. Visiting hours 2-4 p.m. and 6
 KENEFICK-William J. Age 74 of Vershire, VT, formerly of NY died November 28, 1999 in Lebanon, NH. Born February 28, 1925 in Brooklyn, son of George and Irene (McLaughlin) Kenefick. Educated in NY schools including Queens College and Columbia University. Veteran of W.W. II. Retired from Siko
 LLOYD-JONES-Donald J., Dr. The American Geographical Society notes with profound sorrow the death on November 29, 1999 of its president, Dr. Donald J. LloydJones. His remarkable leadership, judgement, vision, devotion, and generosity will be deeply missed. In particular, the dynamic guidanc
 LYNCH-Luke Daniel, Sr. Died peacefully after a long illness on November 27, 1999 in Naples, Fla. Beloved husband of Marjorie for 55 years. Devoted father of Luke Jr. (Nancy), Dorsey (Joyce), and Dan (Cornelia) Lynch and Carol Manire (Michael). Big Chief to 11 grandchildren. Brother of James
 ROBBINS-Bernard. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc., notes with sadness the death of Bernard Robbins, a valued member of the Orchestra's violin section from 1955 to 1983. In addition to his long tenure at the Philharmonic, Mr. Robbins performed with the NBC Symphony under T
 WOLLNER-Edward H. Of New York, Florida and, most recently, Washington, D.C. Died peacefully November 28, 1999 after 92 wonderful years of life. He had retired in 1988 after 60 years in the advertising & printing industries. He was the beloved husband of Harriet S. Wollner (deceased), devote
 Robert Bingham, the author of a collection of short stories and a member of the prominent Kentucky newspaper publishing family, died Sunday at his home in TriBeCa in Manhattan. He was 33. The cause of death is under investigation, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the Office of
