 Madhavrao Scindia, scion of one of India's legendary royal families and a senior leader of the opposition Congress Party, died yesterday when a small plane carrying him to a political rally crashed into a paddy field during a lashing rainstorm. He was 56. Mr. Scindia, reared in pala
 Nguyen Van Thieu, the former president of South Vietnam who led his nation through most of its war against North Vietnam until it was finally overrun by a Communist offensive in 1975, died late Saturday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center here, a hospital spokesman said. He was 76.     
 ALGER-David Dewey. Was tragically lost on 11 September 2001, at the World Trade Center. A Memorial Service to celebrate his remarkable life will be held at Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street in Manhattan, on Friday, 5 October 2001, at 11 a.m. In lieu of flowers, the family re
 ALTMAN-Cantor Harry. Our deepest sorrow on the passing of Cantor Emeritus; 40 years of devoted service has left memories of his magnificent voice. Our heartfelt sympathy to Dr. Linda & Allen. Service Monday, noon, Congregation B'nai Israel, Freeport. Florence Helfand, President Reuben M. Ka
 BECK-Lester, D.D.S. Of New York City and Delray Beach. Oral and maxillofacial surgeon. Died at the age of 69, on September 29, 2001. Former Chief of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery at Good Samaritan Hospital. Former Head of Liability Committee for Suffolk County Dental Society. Former Board 
 GRUENSPECHT-Alfred. On September 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Bertha. Cherished father of Ruth and Gerald, Judith and Lawrence, Naomi and Yechiel. Grandfather of Deborah and David, Yechiel and Margo, Daniel and Rifky, Joshua, David, Lisa, Moshe, Rafi, David and Michelle. Great-grandfather o
 HATTON-Terence S. Age 41, Captain, Rescue Co. 1, FDNY, died bravely in the line of duty with his men at the World Trade Center terrorist attack on September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Beth Petrone Hatton, devoted son of Grace and Kenneth, Deputy Chief ret. FDNY, loving brother of Grace Ha
 JELINEK-Hugo. Born 1901, in Austro-Hungary. Immigrated to the United States on October 12, 1939. He was the founder of H. Jelinek Dental Alloys, Inc. Beloved husband of the late Frances. Devoted father of Ruth Schapira and Judith Gerstl. Adored grandfather of Ralph and Paul Schapira, and Jo
 KAHAN-Michael. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of Professor Micheal Kahan, Department of Political Science. Professor Kahan was a devoted teacher and mentor for nearly 30 years. Frequently sought after as an expert and commentator on the local and national political scene, he recently a
 MEDINA-Standish. 86, on September 27, in Morristown, NJ, of a sudden stroke following a visit to his office near the World Trade Center to retrieve personal possessions. Lawyer, fireman, sailor, local historian, pole vault champion. Graduate of The Hill 1933, Princeton 1937, Columbia Law 19
 SALTON-Albin. Died on September 28, 2001, at the age of 85. He was born in Budapest, Hungary, on August 27, 1916, and came to the United States in 1937. Educated at Queens College, Cambridge, England and at Harvard Business School, Mr. Salton was Managing Director of Lehman Brothers, Inc., 
 SIMON-Alan M. Age 69, died at his home in Manhattan, on September 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Toni Lautman Simon. Loving father of Andrew and Leslie Simon and father-in-law of Nancy Simon and Marc Bender. Devoted grandfather of Allison and Samantha Simon, and Arlo and Philip Bender Simon. 
 Henry A. Ashforth Jr., a major commercial real estate developer in New York City and its suburbs, died on Sept. 21 at a hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 73 and lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Peru, Vt. The cause was cancer, his son Thomas A. Ashforth said. As chairman and c
 ALGER-David Dewey. Was tragically lost on 11 September 2001, at the World Trade Center. A Memorial Service to celebrate his remarkable life will be held at Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street in Manhattan, on Friday, 5 October 2001, at 11 A.M. In lieu of flowers, the family re
 ALTMAN-Harry, Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of our revered colleague for over fifty years. Brilliant cantor with a magnificent voice, he quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of Congregation B'nai Israel of Freeport, Long Island for over four decades w
 BEGLEY-Joseph Thomas. Age 87, died on September 25, 2001, in Westford, MA. Born in NYC in 1914, he was the son of Ellen and John Begley. Joe Begley graduated from Cathedral Grade School, St. Agnes HS, Fordham College Class of '36, and Columbia University Class of '38. Married in 1948 to the
 CANADE-Eugene. A former UN official and an artist, son of artist Vincent Francis Canade, died in Paris on September 16, 2001. Born in New York, on November 22 1914, Eugene Canade received a BA from Brooklyn College in 1939, served as captain in the Medical Administrative Corps of the US Arm
 CANTARELLA-Francesco. The trustees and staff of NYC Police Foundation note with sorrow the passing of trustee, Francesco. We express our most profound condolences to his wife, Marcia, and to the members of his family. Mr. Cantarella served on the board wholeheartedly and with great pride. H
 CONNOR-James Lee, 38. Of Summit, N.J. Formerly of Manhasset, New York. Taken from us in the September 11th attack on the World Trade Center. Jim was a 1985 graduate of the College of William and Mary. He started his career at Bear Stearns and left in 1989 to join the startup investment bank
 DESREAU-Edwin R. Son of Max and Beatrice, brother of Diane Zelanko. Died September 6, 2001. His family and friends will love and miss him always. Graveside services will be at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY on October 7, 2001 at 1 P.M.       
 DURRER-Gustav T. Retired dentist of Manhattan, at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Margot Ammann Durrer. He died peacefully at home after a short illness. He practiced prosthodontic dentistry in Rockefeller Plaza from 1946 to 1995 and served on the teaching staff of New York University Col
 FARGNOLI-Steven J. of Pure Management died September 14, 2001. His mother Rose Fargnoli of Miramar, FL; his daughter Bianca; nieces Lia and Alexa Fioroni survive him along with a multitude of loving friends. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be sent to Doctors Without Borders USA, P.O. Box 
 GIAMMONA-Vincent F. Lieutenant, FDNY, with Ladder 5, died in the line of duty on September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center disaster. Beloved husband of Theresa (nee Varvaro). Loving father of Francesca, Toni-Ann, Nicolette and Daniella. Dear son of Capt. Vincent (retired FDNY) and Dorot
 HATTON-Terence S. Age 41, Captain, Rescue Co. 1, FDNY, died bravely in the line of duty with his men at the World Trade Center terrorist attack on September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Beth Petrone Hatton, devoted son of Grace and Kenneth, Deputy Chief ret. FDNY, loving brother of Grace Ha
 HIRSCHBERG-Peggy R. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of Peggy R. Hirschberg, wife of our fellow member, Gary Hirschberg, and extend sincere condolences to him and his family. Paul N. Gardner, President       
 JELINEK-Hugo. Born 1901, in Austro-Hungary. Immigrated to the United States on October 12, 1939. He was the founder of H. Jelinek Dental Alloys, Inc. Beloved husband of the late Frances. Devoted father of Ruth Schapira and Judith Gerstl. Adored grandfather of Ralph and Paul Schapira, and Jo
 KAHAN-Michael. Died on Sunday, September 29, 2001. Our wonderful wise brave husband, friend, teacher, adviser, storyteller. With our love. Emily. Sophie. Floria. Dara. Michael. Asher. Davi. Roz. Richard. Lionel. Samantha. Services will be at the Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue at 76th St
 MILKOWSKI-Antoni. The Art Department of Hunter mourns the death of our longtime and much loved colleague. A distinguished sculptor and inspiring teacher. We extend our condolences to his daughter Anna, son Stefan, and their mother Susan Hartung.       
 NEMIROFF-Leo, (Northrup, Eric), 87. Of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, died Friday, September 28, 2001. Retired science and medical writer/editor, he leaves Mili, his wife of 67 years; his children, Sandra, David, Judith and Margaret; seven grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Deeply comm
 SIMON-Alan M. Age 69, died at his home in Manhattan, on September 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Toni Lautman Simon. Loving father of Andrew and Leslie Simon and father-in-law of Nancy Simon and Marc Bender. Devoted grandfather of Allison and Samantha Simon, and Arlo and Philip Bender Simon. 
 STERN-Isaac. Yale University and the School of Music mourn the loss of Isaac Stern, one of the most beloved violinists of his generation, a champion of music as a profoundly unifying force, and a mentor of enormous influence. He was a cherished friend who unselfishly shared his unique gifts
 STRAUB-Edward William. On September 11, 2001. President of AON Compensation Consulting, Edward was a World Trade Center Attack Victim. He was fortyeight. Ed was born in Bennington, VT; grew up in Williamstown, MA, and moved to Morris Township seven years ago. Ed left behind his beloved wife
 WILSON-Monsignor John F. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of Holy Name Church, 245 Prospect Park West, Brooklyn, on September 29, 2001. Reposing in M.J. Smith Funeral Home, 248 Prospect Park West, Tuesday October 2nd, from 2-5 P.M. Mass of Transferral at Ho
 WOOD-Benjamin. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Benjamin Wood, husband of Mona Wood, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President       
 William F. Laporte, a former president and chairman of the American Home Products Corporation, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 and also lived in Buck Hill Falls, Pa. Mr. Laporte oversaw American Home for two decades and built it into one of the biggest producers
 Frank Gasparro, who as an engraver at the United States Mint designed the tails side of the current Lincoln penny, showing the Lincoln Memorial, died on Saturday in Havertown, Pa. He was 92. There are more than 100 billion of the pennies in circulation, each with Mr. Gasparro's tiny
 ALGER-David Dewey. Was tragically lost on 11 September 2001, at the World Trade Center. A Memorial Service to celebrate his remarkable life will be held at Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street in Manhattan, on Friday, 5 October 2001, at 11 A.M. In lieu of flowers, the family re
 ASHTON-Thomas J., 21. Of Woodside, NY, died tragically and innocently on September 11, 2001, while working on the 95th floor of One World Trade Center. Precious and cherished son of John and Kathleen Ashton. Beloved brother of Colleen & Mary Ashton. Loving boyfriend of Jacqueline Crilley. D
 BATES-Steven J. At age 42 of Glendale, New York. Lieutenant, Engine Company 235, Brooklyn. In the line of duty at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. A memorial service celebrating his life, will be offered at the Redeemer Lutheran Church, 69-07 Cooper Avenue, Glendale on Saturday
 DeMARTINI-Frank A. Of Brooklyn, NY. Missing since September 11 in the World Trade Center attack. Beloved husband of Nicole (Fasnacht). Devoted father of Sabrina and Dominic. Beloved son of Alfred and Alberta De Martini of Haddon Heights, NJ and Philadelphia, PA. Engaging brother to Alfred, 
 DiCLEMENTE - Frank F. (''Deke''). On Friday, September 28. For four decades Deke was a beloved mentor and counselor-on the playing fields and in the Physical Education Department-to thousands of young men at Phillips Academy Andover. After graduating from Springfield College (MA) in 1935, h
 DURRER-Gustav T. Retired dentist of Manhattan, at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Margot Ammann Durrer. He died peacefully at home after a short illness. He practiced prosthodontic dentistry in Rockefeller Plaza from 1946 to 1995 and served on the teaching staff of New York University Col
 GOLDGRABEN-Harold. On September 30, 2001. Loving brother of Norman and the late Seymour and the late Jerome. Dear uncle and great uncle. He will be missed.       
 KAHAN-Michael. Died on Sunday, September 29, 2001. Our wonderful wise brave husband, brother, friend, teacher, adviser, storyteller. With our love. Emily. Sophie. Floria. Dara. Michael. Asher. Davi. Roz. Richard. Lionel. Samantha. Marc. Theresa. Services will be at the Riverside Chapel, Ams
 KAUFMAN-Arthur. We mourn the passing of our good friend and client, and extend our sympathy to the Kaufman family. We are honored to have known & worked with him. Silverberg Stonehill & Goldsmith       
 KENNEDY-Franklin Jr. At the age of 86. He died peacefully at his home in Bronxville after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Florence. Father of Franklin III, Joyce Heeter, Carolyn Hollingsworth and Kathleen Kennedy. Brother of Roderick. Also surviving are four grandchildren and one great 
 MANDEL-Robert. Our deepest sympathy to the Mandel family. He was the best. Millie Monti and Rose Zappulla       
 MILSTEIN-Seymour. Peacefully on October 2nd. Beloved husband of Vivian for 56 years. Most cherished father of Connie and her companion, Jehan - Christophe, Philip and Cheryl. Adored grandfather of Abby and Rick, Joanna, Merrie, Josh, Toby and Larry. Devoted brother of Paul and Gloria. A gre
 MINTZ-Nathan, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing colleague, teacher and friend. Dr. Mintz began his association with Mount Sinai in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in 1934. After receiving additional tr
 RACHELSON-Morris. Died peacefully September 30, 2001 in his ninety-sixth year. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Carol Goldstein and Dr. Herbert Rachelson. Caring father-in-law of Eli Goldstein and Rosemary Rachelson. Devoted grandfather of Linda Swobe, Steven Goldstein, Simon, 
 RYAN-Edward. Age 42. Missing at the site of the World Trade Center tragedy, September 11, 2001. A memorial Mass will be celebrated at Immaculate Heart of Mary Church White Plains Post Road, Scarsdale, NY on Saturday, October 6, 2001 at 10:45AM. He is survived by his wife Diane, children Edw
 WHALEN-James J. A memorial service will be held Friday, October 12, for James J. Whalen, president emeritus of Ithaca College. Whalen, who led the College during a period of unprecedented growth, passed away Thursday, September 6, in Boston after a brief illness. The memorial mass will be h
 Seymour Milstein, who, with his brother, Paul, presided over a multibillion-dollar real estate and banking empire with three million square feet of office space, 8,000 apartments and one of New York's oldest financial institutions, the Emigrant Savings Bank, died yesterday at New York Presb
 W. Barry McCarthy, an executive at The New York Times Company for two decades, died last Wednesday in Stamford, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was complications from cancer, his family said. Mr. McCarthy joined the Times Company in 1968 as director o
 Dr. Donald J. Cohen, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who as the director of Yale University's renowned Child Study Center reshaped the field of child psychiatry, died in New Haven on Tuesday. He was 61. The cause was ocular melanoma, a rare form of cancer, his colleagues at Yale sa
 ALGER-David Dewey. Was tragically lost on 11 September 2001, at the World Trade Center. A Memorial Service to celebrate his remarkable life will be held at Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street in Manhattan, on Friday, 5 October 2001, at 11 A.M. In lieu of flowers, the family re
 BIKALES-Charlotte. Of Jamaica, NY on October 2, 2001. Beloved wife of Richard. Devoted mother of William and his wife, Eliot, and Michael and his wife, Rosemarie. Loving grandmother of six. Visitation Thursday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Weigand Brothers Funeral Home, 49 Hillside Avenue, Williston P
 COHEN-Donald, M.D. Our faculty and staff mourn the loss of Donald Cohen, M.D., compassionate clinician, generative teacher and a leader in child and adolescent psychiatry. Donald was a mentor to many of our field's leaders, and was one of the original advisers and supporters in establishing
 DAY-Edward. 45. Firefighter. Friend to all. As a firefighter for 13 years, Edward (Eddy) Day, 45, loved his job as a member of Engine Company 28 and Ladder 11 on Manhattan's Lower East Side. He transferred there in 1989 after having been posted briefly at Engine Company 4, also in Lower Man
 GARDNER-Hyman I., M.D. Age 95, died October 2, 2001, in New City, NY. Born on the Lower East Side in 1905, he was a general practitioner in Brooklyn from 1934 to 1991. Married in 1934 to the late Nettie Geringer, he is survived by his children Michael, David and Debra, and Marjorie and the 
 GLASSER-Thomas. Age 40 of Summit, New Jersey lost tragically in the terrorist attack at the World Trade Center, September 11, 2001. Loving husband of Meg, devoted father of Dylan and Lukas. Adored son of Dr. Gerald J. Glasser and Anne Glasser, both of Westfield, New Jersey. Brother of Margi
 GRAZIOSO-Timothy. The New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International records with deep sorrow the passing of our dear friend and member of the Board of Directors, Tim Grazioso, who has been missing following the World Trade Center tragedy on September 11, 2001. 
 KAHAN-Michael. The City University of New York mourns the untimely passing of Michael Kahan, esteemed Professor of Political Science at Brooklyn College since 1973, and University Fellow for Special Projects this year. A popular teacher and dedicated mentor, his classes on the American Pres
 MILSTEIN-Seymour. Peacefully on October 2nd. Beloved husband of Vivian for 56 years. Most cherished father of Connie and her companion, Jehan - Christophe, Philip and Cheryl. Adored grandfather of Abby and Rick, Joanna, Merrie, Josh, Toby and Larry. Devoted brother of Paul and Gloria. A gre
 MODELL-Albert. A gentle man adored by all who knew him. We will always cherish the love and laughter we shared. Cousins Selma Modell Rosen Doris and Norman Tipograph Shelby and Bill Modell       
 NESHER-Aryeh. Died peacefully on October 3, 2001. A legendary fundraiser for Israel and Jewish causes. A loving husband to his wife Lili. A devoted father to son Avi (and Iris), daughter Tali (and David) and adoring grandfather to grandchildren Maya, Jake, Tom and Ari. Services Friday, 11:1
 RYAN-Edward. Age 42. Missing at the site of the World Trade Center tragedy, September 11, 2001. A memorial Mass will be celebrated at Immaculate Heart of Mary Church White Plains Post Road, Scarsdale, NY on Saturday, October 6, 2001 at 10:45AM. He is survived by his wife Diane, children Edw
 SALTON-Albin. Died September 28, 2001, at the age of 85. He was born in Budapest, Hungary, on August 27, 1916, and came to the United States in 1937. Educated at Queens College, Cambridge, England and at Harvard Business School, Mr. Salton was Managing Director of Lehman Brothers, Inc., pri
 SAVAS-Anthony. Of Astoria, NY, tragically on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Tony was a construction inspector for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey working on the 88th floor of the North Tower. Tony saw front line action during the Korean War and helped save lives
 SEIDER-Seymour. The Officers and Directors of S.E.R.V.E. The Handicapped sadly mourn the passing of our brilliant Treasurer. Seymour was our mentor, guiding light and dearest friend. We will always cherish his wisdom, his devotion to severely disabled hospitalized veterans, the handicapped 
 SHAPIRO-Jerome G., 77. Died Tuesday, October 2, 2001 after complications from a stroke and Alzheimer's disease. He practiced law in New York City for over 45 years with the firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed, becoming its Chairman from 1975-1989. Survived by his wife of 42 years, Marjorie Mackay
 SHUFRO-Salwyn. Beloved husband of 71 years of Edna; devoted father of Edward Shufro and Joan Shufro Silverman; grandfather of Joyce Espinosa, Nicholas and Jennifer Shufro, Gregory and Jennifer Shufro, Susanna Silverman, Valerie Silverman and great-grandfather of Zachary and Julia Shufro. So
 SMITH-Hardy William. On October 3, 2001. Beloved friend of the late Peter Glenville. Theirs was a partnership radiant with the warmth of their associations, the creativity of their love for life and the distinction of their achievements together in theatre and film. Adored uncle of Holly Bo
 WURTZEL-Morris. September 29, 2001, age 92. Dedicated and caring husband of Claire. Beloved father of Sheila, Beverly and Phyllis. Loving grandfather of David, Lesley, Ilene, Deborah, Richard and Robert. Proud great grandfather of Sara, Jessica, Rachel, Jacob, Cameron, Carter, Brandon and B
 DiCLEMENTE-Frank F.''Deke''. A memorial service for Frank F. ''Deke'' DiClemente, legendary Phillips Academy basketball, soccor coach, who died Sept. 28, 2001, will be held at 3PM Saturday, Oct. 27, in Cochran Chapel, Phillips Academy, Andover, MA. Donations in his memory may be made to Tru
 Gregory H. Hemingway, whose 1976 book, ''Papa: A Personal Memoir,'' lent humanity and balanced insight to the life of his celebrated father, Ernest Hemingway, died on Monday in Miami. He was 69. The cause was hypertension and heart disease, according to the Reuters news agency.     
 ALBAM-Manny. The Manhattan School of Music is saddened by the death of renowned composer, arranger, conducter and jazz faculty member Manny Albam. Since 1993 Manhattan School musicians have been privileged to share the insight, humor, passion and humanity that made Mr. Albam's presence in t
 ARMSTRONG-Michael J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the tragic death of active member Michael J. Armstrong in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds
 BELCHER-Benjamin Moore Jr., 66. Died October 3, 2001 at a Bangor hospital. He was born March 4, 1935 in New York City, the son of Ben Moore and Nancy (Knapp) Belcher Sr. Benjamin attended the Taft School, Princeton University, class of 1957 and received a law degree from the University of V
 COHEN-Donald J.. Dr. was a true giant...world renowned in the field of child and adolescent psychiatry. Uner his leadership, the Yale Child Center became the gold standard for excellence in research, teaching and service. He made the connections between biology, psychoanalysis, and child de
 CUMMINS-Brian T. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the tragic death of active member Brian T. Cummins in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, and ex tends sincere sympathy to his fa mily. Timothy G. Reynolds, Pres
 JOHNSTON-Walter D. A resident of Mt. Kisco for 32 years died suddenly on October 3, 2001, at his home. He is survived by his wife Christine Atha Johnston, his son Walter Anthony Johnston and his brother James J. Johnston. Funeral Mass 11 AM, Saturday, at St. Patrick's Church, Bedford Villag
 LAPORTE-William. The faculty, staff, students and alumni of Columbia University's Health Sciences Division mourn the passing of our good friend William Laporte, an esteemed trustee of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Over many years of service to both the hospital and the University, M
 McCABE-Michael J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the tragic death of active member Michael J. McCabe in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, Pres
 MILSTEIN - Seymour. The Trustees, Physicians, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital deeply mourn the passing of one of our greatest leaders and benefactors, Seymour Milstein. He was a giant in this city-an extraordinarily successful businessman, a model philanthropist, a statesman conc
 MURPHY-James F. IV. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the tragic death of active member James F. Murphy IV in the terror ist attack on the World Trade Cen ter, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds,
 RYAN-Edward. Age 42. Missing at the site of the World Trade Center tragedy, September 11, 2001. A memorial Mass will be celebrated at Immaculate Heart of Mary Church White Plains Post Road, Scarsdale, NY on Saturday, October 6, 2001 at 10:45AM. He is survived by his wife Diane, children Edw
 SAVAS-Anthony. Of Astoria, NY, tragically on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Tony was a construction inspector for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey working on the 88th floor of the North Tower. Tony saw front line action during the Korean War and helped save lives
 SEIFTER-Eli, Ph.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes with profound sorrow the death of Eli Seifter, Professor Emeritus of Surgery and of Biochemistry, and a distinguished member of Einstein's faculty for nearly four decades. Dr. Seifter was a creative and p
 SHAPIRO-Jerome G., 77. Died Tuesday, October 2, 2001 after complications from a stroke and Alzheimer's disease. He practiced law in New York City for over 45 years with the firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed, becoming its Chairman from 1975-1989. Survived by his wife of 42 years, Marjorie Mackay
 SHUFRO-Salwyn. Beloved husband of 71 years of Edna; devoted father of Edward and Marlene Shufro and Joan and Ronald Silverman; grandfather of Joyce Shufro Espinosa, Nicholas and Jennifer Shufro, Gregory and Jennifer Shufro, Susanna Silverman, Valerie Silverman and greatgrandfather of Zachar
 SMITH-Hardy William. On October 3, 2001. Beloved friend of the late Peter Glenville. Theirs was a partnership radiant with the warmth of their associations, the creativity of their love for life and the distinction of their achievements together in theatre and film. Adored uncle of Holly Bo
 TIGHE-Robert J., Jr. On September 3, 2001, in Florida, age 51. Beloved husband of Constance, son of Margaret and the late Robert, Sr., brother of Michael, son-in-law of Eleanor Nagle. A native of NYC, he graduated from Fordham Prep, Boston College and received his MBA from NYU. A memorial s
 TUCKER-Michael P. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the tragic death of active member Michael P. Tucker in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, Pres
 WRAY-David. Died October 4, at the age of 75. Beloved husband of Ann, father of Vicki, Larry and Susan. Devoted grandfather of Sarah and Jesse, father-in-law of Monica and Ron. David was an educator, passionate skier and a consummate artisan. We will miss his guidance, his generosity of spi
 Dr. Rhys Maengwyn Jones, a pioneer investigator of human origins in Australia, whose research pushed back the beginning of human settlement there to a far earlier date than previously thought, died on Sept. 19 in Canberra, Australia. He was 60. The cause was leukemia, his family sai
 Frederick M. Lussen, a police detective who investigated many of the city's most famous cases in the 1960's and 70's, from gangland shootings to the Mad Bomber, died on Oct. 4, at his home in Nanuet, N.Y. He was 91. As the son of a police officer and the father of another, Mr. Lusse
 Manny Albam, a musician, composer and arranger in the jazz world of the 1950's and 60's who also played a major role in the growth of jazz education, died on Tuesday at his home in Croton, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. Although he was far from a hous
 Mike Mansfield, who served as Senate majority leader longer than anyone else and was instrumental in the 1960's and 1970's in the enactment of legislation on civil rights, social policy and foreign affairs that changed the course of the country, died today at Walter Reed Army Medical Center
 KINGSHOFF-Manfred. On September 27, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife of 63 years, Edith, daughter Barbara Wolfe, son-inlaw Robert Haveman, grandchildren Ari and Jenny Wolfe, Jon, Beth and Andrea Haveman and four great-grandchildren.       
 LAZARUS-Harry. Died on October 5th. A gentle 100 year old. Predeceased by his wife Esther. Survived by loving children Ann, Burt and Stuart; grandchildren Bruce, David, Karen and Barton; great-grandchildren Max and Samuel. Graveside services Glenville Cemetery, Sunday at noon. Contributions
 MILSTEIN-Seymour. Temple Israel Center of White Plains mourns the passing of Seymour Milstein, a long standing member of our community. A wise, courtly, and generous man, he was a prime mover in conceiving of, and making possible, the physical renewal of our synagogue, and particularly the 
 PRESCOTT-Joseph. 88 years old. Died on October 4, 2001. Born July 3, 1913, in Fall River, MA. Retired professor of English, Wayne State University. Graduate of Harvard College and Ph.D. Harvard University. Dr. Prescott's doctoral thesis was the first written in the US on James Joyce's ''Uly
 SHAPIRO-Jerome G., 77. Died Tuesday, October 2, 2001 after complications from a stroke and Alzheimer's disease. He practiced law in New York City for over 45 years with the firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed, becoming its Chairman from 1975-1989. Survived by his wife of 42 years, Marjorie Mackay
 Dr. John C. Lilly, a neuroscientist and writer who explored human consciousness, dolphin communication and the borders of reality with the showmanship of P. T. Barnum and the infectious zeal of Jacques Yves-Cousteau, died on Sept. 30 in Los Angeles. He was 86 and lived in Maui, Hawaii.     
 ABRAHAMSEN - Professor Sa muel. 83, on September 28, 2001. Born Trondheim, Norway. Loving husband, devoted father of Joy Land and Judy (deceased), caring grandfather. Donations in his memory to Brooklyn Foundation, Department of Judaic Studies, Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, NY 11210       
 AISENSTADT-Dr. Andre. The Musicians, Trustees and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of one of their most enthusiastic and generous friends for over four decades and extend sincere sympathy to his family and friends. A member of the Board of Trustees since 1967, 
 CEDERBAUM-Albert (Abbey). Beloved husband of Florence and the late Frances. Beloved father of Dr. Stephen and Evelyn and Dr. Andrew and Anne. Adored by his grandchildren Lori, Julie, Adam, Lisa, Michael and Kate. Wonderful brother to Allen and Harold. Graveside services are on Sunday, Octob
 CLARE-Lawrence George, 74. Of Runaway Bay, Jamaica and Florida where he died on Thursday, October 4. Survived by wife Mavis (Kathleen), son Larry Jr, a New York Times employee, daughters Marlene, Jennifer and Constance, grandchildren Safi, Philip and Andrew, other relatives and friends. Don
 COHEN-Donald J., M.D. Director of the Yale Child Study Center. The National Tourette Syndrome Association, its Board of Directors, chapters, staff and membership are profoundly saddened by the death of Dr. Donald J. Cohen, Director of the Yale Child Studies Center. A true visionary, for ove
 EARLE-William P.S. Jr. Of Palm City, Florida, and NYC. Died on October 1, 2001. He is survived by his children William, Julia, Valerie Miller and Doreen Mogavero, six grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. His life was devoted to his family, his work and his country. He was a retired Arm
 GRAIFMAN-David. Age 40. Loving husband to Christine Huhn. Cherished son to Ruth and Julius Graifman. Loving brother of Gary and Brian Graifman. Dear son-inlaw of Marilyn and Richard Huhn. Also survived by many sisters-inlaw, brothers-in-law, nieces and nephews. Vice-President of Keefe, Bruy
 HODES-Dr. M.E. The Board of Trustees, Scientific Advisory Board, and professional staff of the Israel Cancer Research Fund mourn the loss of a dear colleague and friend, Dr. M.E. (''Ed'') Hodes. Chairman Emeritus of ICRF's International Scientific Council, he was a dedicated humanitarian, d
 KALKUT-Raymond Benjamin, 78. Died October 3, 2001 after living with leukemia for three decades. Beloved husband of Ruth for 38 years. Loving partner of Johanna Roth since 1989. Younger brother of William. Cherished by his children, David, Gary and his wife Amy, Joan and her husband Tom, six
 LYNCH-Robert H. 44, of Cranford, NJ, on September 11, 2001, while working to evacuate the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Elisabeth (Lino) Lynch; loving father of Noelle, Jonathan, Patrick, James, and Mark Lynch; devoted son of Margurite and the late Robert Lynch; beloved brother of 
 MASSA-Nicholas G. Of Manhattan, NY, died tragically on Tuesday, Setember 11, as a victim of the World Trade Center disaster in New York City. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, where he spent most of his childhood. He later lived in Long Island where he raised his family, before moving to New Yor
 MILSTEIN-Seymour. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Seymour Milstein, a distinguished leader in the Jewish community. As one of New York's most prominent real estate developers, he was deeply admired for his extra
 PARKER-Leonard. Age 80, died peacefully on Thursday, October 4, in Scranton, PA. He was the beloved father of Ileen Parker Truglia, Janet Parker Deitsch, Jill Landsman, and Fern Parker. He was separated from Eleanor Parker. Surviving sister Molly Green. Predeceased by Lillian Chottiner and 
 PRESCOTT-Joseph. 88 years old. Died on October 4, 2001. Born July 3, 1913, in Fall River, MA. Retired professor of English, Wayne State University. Graduate of Harvard College and Ph.D. Harvard University. Dr. Prescott's doctoral thesis was the first written in the US on James Joyce's ''Uly
 PRESS-Irving. One of NYC's last seltzermen. Beloved husband of the late Millie, survived by loving sons Harvey (Shelly) and Joel (Andrea) and devoted grandchildren Natalee, Justin, Heidi, Neil and Matthew. Services Monday in North Lauderdale, FL. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be mad
 PROCTOR-Marty. New York City, died tragically on September 11th while working for Cantor Fitzgerald on the 101st floor of the World Trade Center. Loving son of Everett and Catherine and dear brother of Mary. He will be remembered at a Memorial Mass on October 13th at 11:30AM in Blessed Sacr
 ROTH-Herbert J., Esq. Age 72 of Lawrence, NY, formerly of Long Beach, NY. Caring, sensitive man. Beloved husband of Marcia (nee Goldberg) for 49 years. Loving father of Terri Reicher, Steven, Susan Fishler. Devoted grandfather of Eric, Larry, Michelle, Brian, Melissa and Liam. Brother of Ma
 SCHEFFOLD-Fred C. Age 57, Battalion Chief, FDNY, of Piermont, NY, died on September 11, 2001, in the attack on the World Trade Center. Fred served the last 10 years of his 32 year FDNY career in East Harlem where he was a Battalion Chief with the 12th Battalion. He is survived by his wife J
 SCHWARTZ - Murray. Senator Schwartz, since 1978, the chairman of the board of the Honest Valid Association, a non for profit corporation founded by President Roosevelt in 1909, a former New York State Senator, former New York City Commissioner of Commerce, entrepreneur and community leader 
 SHAPIRO-Jerome G., 77. Died Tuesday, October 2, 2001 after complications from a stroke and Alzheimer's disease. He practiced law in New York City for over 45 years with the firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed, becoming its Chairman from 1975-1989. Survived by his wife of 42 years, Marjorie Mackay
 SHUFRO-Salwyn. Beloved husband of 71 years of Edna; devoted father of Edward and Marlene Shufro and Joan and Ronald Silverman; grandfather of Joyce Shufro Espinosa, Nicholas and Jennifer Shufro, Gregory and Jennifer Shufro, Susanna Silverman, Valerie Silverman and greatgrandfather of Zachar
 SIMMONS-Bruce. A victim of the World Trade Center Disaster on September 11, 2001. He was a Partner with Sandler O'Neill & Partners on the 104th Floor of Tower 2. Loving husband of Kathy (nee Hillman), adored father of Meghan, Jack and Emma. Devoted son of Flora Aaroe. A Celebration Mass of 
 SLAVIK-Vladislav (Walter), 77. Died September 10, 2001 of lung cancer. Born in Czechoslovakia, left the country in protest of the Communist regime. In 1950 came to the United States, was active in American Sokol Org. He served as a gymnastic coach, educator and translator. His leadership wa
 SOKOL-Hyman, 95. Of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Queens, NY, passed away September 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Elsie, loving father of Malcom (Sheila) Sokol and Barry (Ricki) Sokol. Cherished grandfather of four. He was much loved by everyone. Funeral services on Monday in Florida, at 
 SOLOVEITCHIK - Rabbi Aaron. The Yeshiva University family and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of a true gadol, and a most eminent rosh yeshiva at RIETS. One of the world's foremost Talmudic scholars, he was warmly revered as the dynamic mentor to g
 SUSSKIND-Jack. Beloved husband of our Chairperson, Leah; beloved father of Tania and Sara and grandfather of Zachary. A true gentleman who graced the lives of many, who shared great joy with his loving family and devoted wife. A respected and admired friend and colleague whose wisdom and st
 TANNENBAUM-Albert H. Of NYC and Orient, NY, on October 2, 2001, at home in NYC. Over 80 years, he gave love, knowledge, and humor to family and friends. Shared 47 years with the late Lona. Loving father of Loren Hilf and Abby Tannenbaum; five grandchildren; one great-grandson. Al was an exu
 TORNAMBE-Dr. Paul. Beloved husband of Rosemarie (nee Gresio). Loving father of Paul, Eugene, Ron and Robert. Cherished grandfather of seven. Funeral Tuesday, 8:30 AM, from the Arlington Funeral Home, Inc., 83-15 Parsons Blvd., Jamaica NY 11432 (at Grand Central Parkway). Mass of Christian B
 Brian E. Kendrick, a leader in the retail industry and chief executive of Asbury Autogroup, died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 48. The cause was a heart attack, a company spokeswoman said. Mr. Kendrick became widely known in the retail industry in the 19
 Charles W. Mathews, the program manager of NASA's Project Gemini in the 1960's, died on Sept. 10 in a hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He was 80 and lived in Gainesville. The cause was kidney failure, said the Forest Meadows Funeral Home in Gainesville. Mr. Mathews, an aeronaut
 Dougie Millings, a tailor to the stars whose crowning achievement was outfitting the Beatles in the distinctive round-necked suits in which they rocked to global glory, died on Sept. 20 in his London home. He was 88. Mr. Millings was called Dad by the Beatles, and appeared as a tail
 COHEN-Martin S. On October 6, 2001, Martin S. of Brookline passed away peacefully at home after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Trudy (Ingall). Father of Bradley and Kenneth. Grandfather of Will, Lauren, Alex, Anna and Julian. Father-in-law of Susan, Laura and Gabriella. Loving brother 
 DIMOW-William. 90, of the Bronx, died Saturday, October 6, 2001. He leaves his wife Ruth, a brother Joseph Dimow of New Haven, CT, and two sisters, Joan Leib of Santa Monica, CA, and Rae Epstein of Cleveland, OH; also several nephews and nieces. He will be missed by his many friends.       
 HAZEN-William H. 70, on October 5, 2001, of complications following surgery. He was a Managing Director of the investment firm J. & W. Seligman & Co., a graduate and Trustee of Bowdoin College, and an active alumnus of Harvard Law School. He is survived by his wife Judith Ettl Hazen, daught
 KENNY-Thomas George. Died October 6, 2001. For 75 years gave love and laughter to family and friends. The embodiment of the golden rule, he had open arms for everyone he met. Predeceased by sister Louise. Survived by the Kenny, Bellittieri, Van Doninck and Eyre families, and countless frien
 MASSA-Nicholas G. Of Manhattan, NY, died tragically on Tuesday, Setember 11, as a victim of the World Trade Center disaster in New York City. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, where he spent most of his childhood. He later lived in Long Island where he raised his family, before moving to New Yor
 MILSTEIN-Seymour. Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center mourns the loss of our former chairman and is grateful for his and Paul's many years of guidance and support. Myron Strober, past Chairman Board of Trustees       
 PRESS-Irving. One of NYC's last seltzermen. Beloved husband of the late Millie, survived by loving sons Harvey (Shelly) and Joel (Andrea) and devoted grandchildren Natalee, Justin, Heidi, Neil and Matthew. Services Monday in North Lauderdale, FL. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be mad
 SOLOVEICHIK-Aaron. The management and employees of Aron Streit, Inc. extend its deepest condolences to the family of Rabbi Aaron Soloveichik. For many years, he was our head rabbinical authority, a trusted advisor and a cherished family friend. The Aron Streit, Inc. Melgross and Aron Yagoda
 TOBIN-Carl. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Devoted father of Carol, Bob and Laurie. Grandfather of Stacy, Heather, Benjamin, Ellen and Robin. An adventurous man with a love of life, music, sports and family. He will be missed by all. Graveside service. Family will be receiving visitors at the 
 TORNAMBE-Dr. Paul. Beloved husband of Rosemarie (nee Gresio). Loving father of Paul, Eugene, Ron and Robert. Cherished grandfather of seven. Funeral Tuesday, 8:30 AM, from the Arlington Funeral Home, Inc., 83-15 Parsons Blvd., Jamaica NY 11432 (at Grand Central Parkway). Mass of Christian B
 Roger J. Boisvert, one of Japan's leading Internet pioneers, died on Sept. 30 during a robbery in Los Angeles. He was 50 and lived here. Mr. Boisvert was shot after he and a friend became lost in the Hawthorne section of Los Angeles early in the morning. They stopped their car along
 George P. Brockway, former president and chairman of the publishing house W. W. Norton & Company, died on Friday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 85. He had a long illness, the company said in announcing his death. After doing much editing at Norton, which is based in M
 Herblock, the Washington Post editorial cartoonist, whose critical eye and rapier pen made him one of the leading journalists of his time, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 91. His cartoons were a chronicle of politics over the last seven decades, including the atomic bomb, which
 Paul J. Fitzgerald, the lead defense lawyer in the murder trial of Charles M. Manson and three young women who were his followers, died on Oct. 1 at his Beverly Hills, Calif., home. He was 64. The cause was heart disease, his family said. Mr. Fitzgerald was a Los Angeles pub
 BREAKSTONE-Arnold. This very much loved husband, father, brother, uncle and friend succumbed to pancreatic cancer on October 7, 2001. The dignity with which he courageously battled this painful disease should be the criterion by which we all live our lives. He was the consummate gentleman. 
 CHAISSON-Charles G. On October 7, 2001. Beloved brother and uncle will be deeply missed. Charles' profound love of God's creatures, colorful sense of humor and conversation endeared him to so many. A man of deep integrity and work ethic. For those who wish, a donation to the Humane Society 
 ELKIND-Alan Herbert. 76 years old. BS MSEE Columbia University, graduated from Annapolis Lt. JG U.S. Navy. Died from cancer. Beloved husband of 48 years to Emilie Schwartz Elkind. Devoted father to Jaine Elkind Eney, David Lloyd Elkind, Susan Elkind Orchant. Dear brother of Elaine Elkind. P
 HASKINS-Dr. Caryl Parker. Dr. Caryl Parker Haskins, scientist, author, governmental advisor and pioneer entomologist in the study of ant biology died Monday, October 8, 2001 at the age of 93. He was the husband of the late Edna Ferrell Haskins. Dr. Haskins was a longtime resident of both Wa
 KENDRICK-Brian. The officers, members and staff of the Pawling Mountain Club mourn the passing of our fellow sportsman and dear friend. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Philip Bonanno, Chairman Peter Cholnoky, President       
 KENNY-Thomas George. Died October 6, 2001. For 75 years gave love and laughter to family and friends. The embodiment of the golden rule, he had open arms for everyone he met. Predeceased by sister Louise. Survived by the Kenny, Bellittieri, Van Doninck and Eyre families, and countless frien
 KUPERMAN-Jacob H. Age 94, peacefully on October 7, 2001. Devoted father of Elaine Lewis and Howard Kuperman, loving husband of the late Rose, grandfather of three, and brother of Adele. A great and honorable man, he was adored and respected by all who knew him. Services are private.       
 McGOWAN-Edward J. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Saltaire is deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and former village attorney, Ed McGowan. Ed's skills as an attorney were equaled only by his steadfast loyalty, his warmth and generosity. His devotion to his work & family ear
 MEISELS-Dr. Morton, 86. Died with dignity on October 7, 2001. Beloved husband of Emmy. Loving father of Penina, Peter, David, Michael, Steven and Susan. Devoted grandfather of 7 grandchildren. Graduate of Cornell University School of Veterinary Medicine, Class of 1941. Served as a Captain i
 PALMADESSA-John J. On October 8, 2001 at age 73. Loving husband of Mary, and devoted father to Danielle and Douglas. Grandfather to Douglas Jr. Brother-inlaw to Anthony Aglione who was his ''brother at heart'' and many devoted nieces and nephews. Korean War Veteran, self-made entrepreneur a
 PAUL-Samuel. Beloved husband of the late Gladys. Devoted father of Fredarica and David. Adored grandfather of Robert, Joshua, Anne Sharon, Elizabeth, Michael, Eric and Victoria, and great grandfather of nine. Dear brother of Mildred and Sylvia. Services Wednesday 11:30 AM Temple Sinai, 131 
 RAMIREZ-Gaston, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and long time friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extented to his entire family. Jeffrey Freed, M.D., President William G. Stein, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M
 RAMOS-Harry. With our deepest gratitude and most profound sadness we mourn for Harry, who is tragically missing since September 11, 2001, last seen in 1 WTC while trying to help our beloved Victor from the building. We are heartbroken at this terrible loss and send our deepest condolences t
 WALD-Victor. On September 11, 2001 Victor was tragically lost in WTC 1. People were drawn to his wisdom, irreverent wit, integrity and humanity. Victor was a scholar of history and religion and a keen observer of world politics. An institutional broker with Avalon Partners, Victor was held 
 WITKOWSKY-Earl. 91. Died October 7. Survived by his son Paul, daughter-in-law Maria, grandchildren David and Anna, all of Radford, VA.       
 William G. Cahan, a Manhattan surgeon, author and tireless advocate of laws and educational programs to reduce smoking, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 87. Dr. Cahan (pronounced KAY-han) was a thoracic surgeon at Sloan-Kettering for more
 Calvin C. Hernton, a scholar, critic and poet whose work explored the terrain where American race relations collide with American sexual politics, died on Oct. 1 at his home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 69. He had been ill with cancer for some time, said a spokesman for Oberlin College,
 Norris Houghton, a theatrical producer and designer, and founder of the Phoenix, one of the first and most successful of New York's not-for-profit Off Broadway theaters, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital, said Frank Lloyd Dent, a longtime friend and neighbor. He was 92. Born 
 BECKER-Isidore A. On October 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Adele. Loving father of Steven, his wife Abbe, and Carol. Adored grandfather of Robert, Meredith, Emily and Alison. Dear brother of Russ. He will live in our hearts forever and will always be a part of our lives. He was the strength a
 CAHAN-William G., M.D. The staff and leadership of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the death of William G. Cahan, our colleague and friend for more than half a century. We extend our condolences to his wife Grace and to his children. As a clinician, researcher and teacher, Bill
 CHUN-Wei Foo, architect, died peacefully at the age of 86 at his home on Saturday October 6, 2001, with his family by his side. He was the cherished husband of Anita, beloved father of Eugene and Elaine and proud grandfather of Tarryn, Alyson and Anthony.       
 HAZEN-William H. On behalf of the Directors and all the members of The Anglers' Club of New York, we express our profound sorrow at the loss of our past president, advisor, friend and raconteur without equal and extend our utmost sympathy to Judy and his family. Dr. John I. Larkin, Presiden
 KENDRICK-Brian. The officers, members and staff of the Pawling Mountain Club mourn the passing of our fellow sportsman and dear friend. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Philip Bonanno, Chairman Peter Cholnoky, President       
 KUPERMAN-Jacob H. Age 94, peacefully on October 7, 2001. Devoted father of Elaine Lewis and Howard Kuperman, loving husband of the late Rose, grandfather of three, and brother of Adele. A great and honorable man, he was adored and respected by all who knew him. Services are private.       
 McGOWAN-Edward J. Formerly of Massapequa and Saltaire, N.Y. On October 5, 2001 at age 78 after a long illness. Dear husband of Jane. Loving father of Edward and Judith, Terence and Suzanne, Michael and Anna, Denise and Joseph, and Christine. Devoted grandfather of Henry, Patrick, Madeleine,
 NEWMAN-Bernard. Esq. Died Tuesday, October 9, 2001. Beloved husband and best friend of Ina for 46 years. A caring and devoted father to Jeffrey, Jonathan, James, Eric and daughter-in-law Rhonda. Burrie will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Services at Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, Hewle
 PALMADESSA-John J. On October 8, 2001 at age 73. Loving husband of Mary, and devoted father to Danielle and Douglas. Grandfather to Douglas Jr. Brother-inlaw to Anthony Aglione who was his ''brother at heart'' and many devoted nieces and nephews. Korean War Veteran, self-made entrepreneur a
 RODRIGUES-Antonio. Age 35, of Port Washington, Long Island on September 11th, 2001. A Port of Authority Police Officer, he was a hero of the World Trade Center disaster. Beloved husband of Christina. Loving father of Adam and Sara. Dearest son of Jose and Cecilia of Portugal. Dear brother o
 ROSENBLATT-Irwin M. The former Lopez Edwards Frank Partners and the Partners and Staff of M.R. Weiser & Co LLP deeply mourn the passing of our retired Partner Irwin M. Rosenblatt. We wish to extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife Carole, his children and grandchildren.     
 SAVIO-Frank H., Cmdr. USN Ret. Age 84. On Oct. 7, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Margaret A. (nee Armao). Devoted father of Robin L. Savio of Virginia & Lorna G. Golder of Texas. Also survived by his sister, Genevieve Savio of New York City, five grandchildren, four great grandchildren a
 SCHRODER-Hans Emil. Of Herdecke, Germany, NYC and Chichester, NY. Died on September 29th after a long illness. Survived by his wife Kristin, son Hans Kristofer and brother and sister-in-laws Dr's. Klaus and Elizabeth Schroder. A Memorial service to be held at St. Phillip's Church, Garrison,
 SWEENEY-George Fenton, 70. Of Rye Brook and Cutchogue, NY, on October 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Jane Paris. Devoted father to Patrick Sweeney, Heather Tetrault and Michele Cusack. Doting grandfather of Michael, Max, Desmond, Patrick, Brooke & Caroline. Loved for his joie de vivre, humor, 
 ZUCKERMAN-Max. 90 years, died October 9, 2001, born in New York City July 28, 1911, married to the late Helen Blum; father of Bernice, Stephen and Robert; grandfather of Alexandra, Gabriel, Joshua and Michael; 7th Avenue dress manufacturer and former owner of Preferred Fashions. He taught h
 Herbert Ross, a Broadway choreographer-turned-film director who brought serious dance into the Hollywood mainstream with movies like ''The Turning Point,'' translated five Neil Simon comedies to the screen and directed a pantheon of actresses in some of their most memorable roles, died on T
 ABRAHAMSON-William Fraser, of Cortlandt Manor, NY. Bill was a victim of the WTC senseless tragedy. Beloved husband of Ann. Cherished father of Erik. All who knew him have lost a friend with a great enthusiasm for life, and an unbridled love for all people. A memorial service will be at the 
 BECKER-Isidore A. On October 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Adele. Loving father of Steven, his wife Abbe, and Carol. Adored grandfather of Robert, Meredith, Emily and Alison. Dear brother of Russ. He will live in our hearts forever and will always be a part of our lives. He was the strength a
 COHEN-Donald J. The Joseph Slifka Center for Jewish Life at Yale mourns the passing of our great friend and former President, Donald J. Cohen. Donald exemplified what it means to live a Jewish life. He was a warm and caring friend to generations of our students, a wise and inspiring leader 
 GENTRY-Brad, 47. On Tuesday, October 2, 2001. Beloved brother of Carol Rausch, brother-in-law of Carl, uncle of Adam and devoted life partner of Joe. Formerly of Baltimore, MD and last residing in New York City in Fire Island Pines. Served as Director of Merchandise Planning for Saks Fifth 
 HAZEN-William H. The Manhattan Institute for Policy Research and its Trustees mourn the passing of William H. Hazen. Bill was a devoted and loyal friend who understood the enormous consequence of ideas & the great responsibilities of citizenship. We shall miss him, and our prayers are with 
 HOUGHTON-Norris. December 26, 1909-October 9, 2001. Theater man extraordinary and evangel for all arts at all learning levels, he never lost Hoosier energy, thespian charm, educator's loyalty to the art in himself. Author and editor of more than a dozen theater related (reprinted) books, hi
 HOWARD-Edward F. Died in September of Parkinsons Disease. A valued communications consultant for AT&T for many years, he was a founding partner of Schorr, Howard & Megill. He is survived by his wife Vyvyan, sons Jeffrey and Craig and four grandchildren.       
 McDONNELL-Brian, N.Y.P.D. Police Officer. Tragically lost in the line of duty on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center disaster. Survived by his beloved wife Margaret and cherished children Katie and Thomas, dear brothers Robert and Kevin, devoted sister Alicia, and his loving mother
 NEWMAN-Bernard. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear Burrie. Like a brother, he never forgot a birthday, anniversary, or holiday greeting. We'll miss those special phone calls. One of a kind. Roseann, Irwin and Claire       
 RODRIGUES-Antonio. Age 35, of Port Washington, Long Island on September 11, 2001. A Port Authority Police Officer, he was a hero of the World Trade Center disaster. Beloved husband of Christina. Loving father of Adam and Sara. Dearest son of Jose and Cecilia of Portugal. Dear brother of Mar
 SCHWARTZ-Samuel E., MD. Retired New York family physician, died on October 6th in Phoenix, Arizona. Dr. Schwartz was born on September 3rd, 1910, in New York City. He was a graduate of City College of New York in 1931 and New York University School of Medicine in 1938. He interned at Willar
 SPARACIO-Thomas. Age 35, of Staten Island, N.Y. Has not been heard from since the attack on the WTC September 11, 2001. Loving husband of Cheri Magnus Sparacio, adoring and devoted father of 2-year-old twins Eric & Jonathan and soon-to-be-born Baby S. Beloved son of Edith Sparacio and broth
 TANNENBAUM-Rev. Bernard. On October 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Devoted father of Penny, Matthew and Jeremy. He was a loving man devoted to family and excellence. Funeral service Friday 1PM at Schwartz BrothersJeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd. at 76th Rd, Forest Hills, NY.      
 WAYNE-Oscar. On October 8. Beloved husband of Adele. Devoted father of Vivian and her husband Brian Henderson. Cherished grandfather of Alexis and Olivia. He will be deeply missed by all and will forever remain in our hearts. Funeral is private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Th
 Eddie Futch, who trained six heavyweight champions with a firmness and compassion that inspired the confidence of his fighters and whose boxing roots went back to the Joe Louis era of the 1930's, died Wednesday in Las Vegas. He was 90. Futch was still training champions well into hi
 BECKER-Isidore A. On October 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Adele. Loving father of Steven, his wife Abbe, and Carol. Adored grandfather of Robert, Meredith, Emily and Alison. Dear brother of Russ. He will live in our hearts forever and will always be a part of our lives. He was the strength a
 BOCCHINO-Michael L. Firefighter and battalion aide, FDNY, Battalion 48, Engine 240. Born November 25, 1955, tragically lost in line of duty on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center disaster. Michael leaves behind his loving parents, Michael A. Bocchino and Lucy Bocchino, his sister, 
 BREITBART-Robert S. Age 87, Died suddenly on October 11, 2001. He was a graduate of Columbia College and Columbia Law School. He was an attorney practicing law since 1936. He was also a professor at Pace University teaching law and taxation from 1945 through 1995. He is survived by his belo
 DelVALLE-Manuel. He was a firefighter with FDNY Engine Company #       
 FERRIS-Louis, M.D. Died on October 10, 2001. Beloved husband of Marie. Devoted father of Dina and Spiro. Loving grandfather of Alexander, Evan & Serena. Dr. Ferris had a distinguished career as a physician for 50 years. In 1970 His Eminence Archbishop Iakovos awarded Dr. Ferris the Medal of
 HOUGHTON-Norris. December 26, 1909-October 9, 2001. Theater man extraordinary and evangel for all arts at all learning levels, he never lost Hoosier energy, thespian charm, educator's loyalty to the art in himself. Author and editor of more than a dozen theater related (reprinted) books, hi
 ISLER-Samuel. National Jewish Outreach Program (NJOP) mourns the passing of our generous benefactor Samuel Isler, who together, with his beloved wife Marilyn, played a vital role in NJOP's efforts to assure a Jewish future for American Jewry. Yehi Zichro Baruch. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, D
 MONTRESOR-Beni. Set and costume designer, illustrator, stage director, film director. In Verona, Italy on October 11. Sadly missed by Fiammetta and Peter East, his admirers and friends.       
 ROSS-Herbert D. On October 9, 2001. Son of the late Louis C. and Martha Grundfast Ross. Husband of the late Nora Kaye Ross. Beloved brother of Roslyn Jaffe and Selene Spiegel. Cherished uncle of Louise Jaffe and Frank Jaffe. Admired great uncle of Maggie and Nora Casey, Sam and Sarah Jaffe.
 SEIFTER-Dr. Eli. The Department of Surgery at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine extends its deepest, heartfelt condolences to Dr. Sam Seifter, brother, and the entire family of Dr. Eli Seifter, Professor Emeritus of Surgery and Biochemistry, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, who di
 SIMPSON-Irving. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of Robert and Phyllis Simpson and Nancy and Thomas Blank. Dear brother of Cynthia Kaplan. Cherished grandfather of David and Jeffrey Blank. Services today 12 Noon at ''The Riverside'', 21 West Broad St, Mt Vernon, NY. Contributions 
 SMOLENSKI-Joseph R., Sr., of New Hyde Park, New York, Jamesport, New York, and Jensen Beach, Florida, passed on quietly after a long illness on October 10, 2001. Devoted and loving husband of Amy (nee Kasperowicz). Supportive and adoring father of Joseph R., Jr. and his wife Janet, and Caro
 SPIRO-Raphael P. (Phil). October 11, 2001. Beloved as a husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, cousin, friend, and community member. He will be missed by his wife Leah; daughters Nina and Anita and their husbands; grandchildren Alana, Valerie, Max and Carly; brother Julie, extended f
 EISENSTEIN-Alvin Gordon Remembered always by his loving family and friends October 12, 1915-October 26, 198       
 Roberto Campos, one of the most prominent figures in Brazilian economic, intellectual and political life, died of a heart attack at his apartment here late Tuesday. He was 84. In a long career, Mr. Campos was a diplomat, cabinet minister, senator, congressman and bank president, dis
 Beni Montresor, who conjured magical, dreamlike images in the children's books he illustrated and the sets and costumes he designed for opera productions around the world, died on Thursday in Verona, Italy, near the village where he was born. He was 78. The cause was pancreatic canc
 Dr. Caryl P. Haskins, a biophysicist and former president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington whose lifelong love of learning led him to study subjects as diverse as ants, radiation and the Amazon, died on Monday in Westport, Conn. He was 93. ''The man who is too old to learn 
 BEATUS-Howard Z. Closed his eyes peacefully on October 11, 2001, after a courageous fight against pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Betty Beatus, daughters Allison Asaro, Carolyn Lockett, and grandchildren, Christopher and Kelly Lockett. We will mourn his death and celebrate hi
 DEFENDINI-Richard. The Division of Neuropathology and the Department of Pathology at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons mourn the loss of our respected friend and colleague, Dr. Richard Defendini, 75, who passed away on October 9, 2001. An accomplished neurologist and ne
 EIGEN-Morris. A prominent NY dress manufacturer for over 70 years, and friend to hundreds, passed away in his home. He was 93 years old and had recently returned from a trip to Vietnam and Cambodia with his family. His wife, Beatrice Eigen, had passed away in 1983. Co-Founder of Bloom & Ega
 LIPKINS-Milton. Died on October 12th, 2001. Beloved husband of Edna Mae, loving father of Ira and his wife, Sharon Lipkins, and Judith and her husband, Stephen Ness. Cherished grandfather of Stacey Ness, Lisa McCaffarty, and Carolyn Lipkins. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and love
 McCAULEY-Barry. New York City Opera mourns the death of our good friend and colleague, Barry McCauley. He joined our company in 1980 and sang in many of our productions over the years, providing many memorable & exciting evenings in the theater. He was a gifted artist, and a generous and jo
 ROSENBLOOM-Benjamin. Hillel: Foundation for Jewish Campus Life extends its deepest condolences to the Rosenbloom family on the passing of our beloved friend and benefactor, Benjamin Rosenbloom. Ben was committed to passing on the light of Jewish living to the next generation, an objective h
 SIMPSON-Irving. We mourn the passing of Irving Simpson, our friend, neighbor, and fellow cooperator. His family moved in around 1930, and he has been an active part of our co-op community since then. He married here and with Bea, raised their family here. A quiet, understated leader, Irv se
 WILSON-Jeffrey. The Jewish Braille Institute of America (JBI) is deeply saddened by the passing of a valued Trustee of our Institute, Jeffrey Wilson. His keen sense of philanthropy and Jewish commitment helped strengthen our agency's mission to enable the visually impaired and blind to have
 Joseph Stein, an American architect who designed some of India's most important modern buildings, died on Oct. 6 in Raleigh, N.C. He was 89. In the nearly half-century he spent in India, Mr. Stein won acclaim for marrying his structures to the natural landscape. He favored buildings
 BEATUS-Howard Z. Closed his eyes peacefully on October 11, 2001, after a courageous fight against pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Betty Beatus, daughters Allison Asaro, Carolyn Lockett, and grandchildren, Christopher and Kelly Lockett. We will mourn his death and celebrate hi
 EIGEN-Morris. A prominent NY dress manufacturer for over 70 years, and friend to hundreds, passed away in his home. He was 93 years old and had recently returned from a trip to Vietnam and Cambodia with his family. His wife, Beatrice Eigen, had passed away in 1983. Co-Founder of Bloom & Ega
 GARTENBERG-Irving L., 78. On October 5, 2001. Dear husband of Lois. Proud father of Julie and the late Jim (Jill). Adoring ''Pa'' of Nicole. World War II vet; NYU and Harvard Law School graduate. Loving and lovable; caring and cared about; interesting and interested; sensible and sensitive.
 HANLEY-Christopher J., 34. Beloved son of Marie and Joseph, killed attending Risk Waters Conference, September 11, 2001 at Windows on the World, 106th floor, World Trade Center. A Mass to celebrate his life will be held on Tuesday, October 16, at 7:00 PM, Church of St. Francis Xavier, 46 We
 HENIG-Philip Edward, M.D. Devoted husband of Carolyn, his wife of 61 years, loving father of Andrea Clair, her husband Davis Iszard and the predeceased Peter Henig, and beloved grandfather of Bradley and Elizabeth Clair, died at home on October 12, 2001 at the age of 88, after a long illnes
 HODES-Marion Edward, M.D., Ph.D., 76, Prof. of Medical Genetics at Indiana U. School of Medicine, Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease specialist, died September 28, 2001 of cancer. Dr. Hodes received his M.D. in 1947 and his Ph.D. in 1955. He was a consultant to Eli Lilly & Co. and participated in
 HOUGHTON-Norris. December 26, 1909-October 9, 2001. Theater man extraordinary, Off-Broadway pioneer at Phoenix Theater, evangel for all arts at all learning levels, he made friends worldwide for theater and art as inspired quests. Funeral 2:00 PM, October 15th, First Presbyterian, NYC, Fift
 LIPKINS-Milton. Died on October 12th, 2001. Beloved husband of Edna Mae, loving father of Ira and his wife, Sharon Lipkins, and Judith and her husband, Stephen Ness. Cherished grandfather of Stacey Ness, Lisa McCaffarty, and Carolyn Lipkins. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and love
 ROSENBLOOM-Ben. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the passing of Ben Rosenbloom of Baltimore, Maryland, a longtime dedicated supporter of the Technion along with his wife, Esther. As champions of the ATS, the Technion and Israel,
 SCHILDWACHTER - Frederick Henry. 80, passed away Monday, October 8, 2001, in Grapevine Texas. Fred was born May 17, 1921. He retired from F.M. Schildwachter and Sons after 42 years. He was a veteran of World War II. Survivors: Wife, Gladys Schildwachter; daughter, Susan Tremain; son, Fred S
 SUSSKIND-Jack. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jack Susskind, beloved husband of Leah Susskind, a cherished friend and an exemplary leader of UJA-Federation. We express our deepest sympathy during this difficult time to Leah; to
 WAYNE-Oscar. On October 8. Beloved husband of Adele. Devoted father of Vivian and her husband Brian Henderson. Cherished grandfather of Alexis and Olivia. He will be deeply missed by all and will forever remain in our hearts. Funeral is private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Th
 Clyde L. Choate, who received the Medal of Honor in World War II while an Army sergeant for single-handedly turning back an attack by a German tank and who later became a prominent member of the Illinois Legislature, died on Oct. 5 at a hospital in Carbondale, Ill. Mr. Choate, who lived in 
 Michael Kahan, a political science professor at Brooklyn College who was one of the leaders in the battle to keep poorly prepared students from being turned away from the City University of New York, died on Sept. 30 in New York City. He was 61. The cause was cancer of the gall blad
 BEATUS-Howard Z. Closed his eyes peacefully on October 11, 2001, after a courageous fight against pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife, Betty Beatus, daughters Allison Asaro, Carolyn Lockett, and grandchildren, Christopher and Kelly Lockett. We will mourn his death and celebrate hi
 EIGEN-Morris. The Board and staff of The Abraham Fund mourn the passing of Morris Eigen, beloved father of our valued President, Judith Eigen Sarna. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. EIGEN-Morris. We all lost a special human being and a very dear friend. He wil
 HANLEY-Christopher J., 34. Beloved son of Marie and Joseph, killed attending Risk Waters Conference, September 11, 2001 at Windows on the World, 106th floor, World Trade Center. A Mass to celebrate his life will be held on Tuesday, October 16, at 7:00 PM, Church of St. Francis Xavier, 46 We
 LADLEY-James Patrick, 41, a Cantor Fitzgerald Partner and Corporate Bond Broker, was working at 1 World Trade Center on the 104th floor. James was last spoken to at work on the morning of September 11th. He was a lifelong resident of Staten Island, NY, where he attended Saint Adalbert's and
 LIPKINS-Milton. Died on October 12th, 2001. Beloved husband of Edna Mae, loving father of Ira and his wife, Sharon Lipkins, and Judith and her husband, Stephen Ness. Cherished grandfather of Stacey Ness, Lisa McCaffarty, and Carolyn Lipkins. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and love
 MITCHELL-Edward C. 88, on October 11, 2001, in London after a brief illness. Graduated Dartmouth in 1935. Worked for Texaco around the world. Survived by his loving wife, four daughters, three step-daughters, three granddaughters and three grandsons.       
 MURRAY-Reuben (R. Stanley Murray). Beloved husband of the late Blanche. Loving father of Stanley and Ruth, Bob and Barbara and Marjorie and Jay Agran. Grandfather of Jeffrey, Steve and Elizabeth, Erica, Vicki and Bruce, and Pamela and Jennifer, and eleven great - grandchildren. Graveside se
 SCHILDWACHTER - Frederick Henry. 80, passed away Monday, October 8, 2001, in Grapevine Texas. Fred was born May 17, 1921. He retired from F.M. Schildwachter and Sons after 42 years. He was a veteran of World War II. Survivors: Wife, Gladys Schildwachter; daughter, Susan Tremain; son, Fred S
 SHIPPER-Dr. Philip E. October 13. Beloved husband of Roslyn for 56 years. Loving and proud father of Laura and Marc, and David and Clancy. Phil always maintained a special and unique bond with each of his grandsons, Howard, Andrew, Joshua and Michael. Dear brother of Ethel, Arthur, Judith a
 Robert Riley, an expert on fashion design who oversaw collections and organized design shows at the Brooklyn Museum of Art and the Fashion Institute of Technology, died on Oct. 6 at a hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 90 and lived in Truro, Mass. Mr. Riley retired in 1981 after two 
 Lord Hailsham of St. Marylebone, a leading British Conservative politician who served in six governments, including Churchill's wartime administration, and was the longest-serving lord chancellor, or head of the British judiciary, in the 20th century, died on Friday at his London home. He w
 ABISH-Sheldon. On Sunday, October 14, 2001 at his home in NYC. Beloved husband of Sheila, brother-in-law of Alfred Carlson, cherished uncle of Kenneth Carlson & family. A CPA with a successful NY practice spanning 40 years, he served on the Board of Directors of Westend Intergenerational Re
 BERNE-Robert M., M.D. Former professor and chair of the Department of Physiology at the University of Virginia, School of Medicine, died at his home in Charlottesville, Virginia, Thursday, October 4, 2001. An alumnus of the University of North Carolina and Harvard Medical School he authored
 CUSIMANO-James M. September 17, 2001 at age 58. Beloved husband of Beverly (nee Haferbier) for 36 years. Preceded in death by his parents Salvatore and Elsie (nee Piper) and by brother Charles and sister Arlene Fredrichsdorf. Jim was a graduate ABD of University of Wisconsin, Madison. His w
 DUHL-Harold. Of Riverdale, NY on October 15, 2001. Retired CFO of St. Regis Paper Company. Predeceased by beloved wife Doris. Adored father of Judy (Jeff McDonald) and Marcia Markowicz (Joe). Loving grandfather of Paul, Alex, Steven and Laura. Dearest brother of Ricki Rubinstein. Led a cour
 GAMBINO-Thomas, 42. Of NYC, is presumed to have died in the collapse of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Mr. Gambino was a graduate of West Point and Harvard Law School. He was the son of Thomas Gambino of Chadds Ford, PA., and the late Frances L. Gambino. Also survived by his 
 GANZ-Peter. On October 13, 2001, at age 85. Beloved husband of Irene Duell Ganz. Loving father of Robert Ganz and Wendy Ganz Bamman and their spouses, Beth Ganz & Robert Bamman. Adoring grandfather of Sarah Ganz Blythe, Theresa and John Ganz and Leah Bamman and great-grandfather of William 
 HASKINS-Caryl P. The Trustees of the American Museum of Natural History are saddened by the death of Dr. Caryl P. Haskins, Trustee of the Museum since 1973, an Honorary Trustee since 1988. He was a valued member of the Board who brought extraordinary intelligence and dedication to the Museu
 JACOBSON-Harold G., M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of our Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Radiology, who served our medical school with great devotion since 1963. He was chairman of our Department of Radiology from 1972 to 1985, and was re
 JELLINEK-Kurt, M.D. Dedicated physician, beloved husband of Kate, father of Michael (Barbara), grandfather of David, Abraham, Isaiah and Hannah Rose and uncle of Peter, Shane & Jessie, brotherin-law of Susie. Born in Vienna on May 1, 1908. He will be missed by everyone who knew him. Service
 KORN-Frank. Died peacefully on October 15, 2001 at the age of 88 at his home, with his family by his side. Beloved husband of Chizuko & the late Marian. Devoted father of Evelyn Radin, Carol Korn-Bronson and Susie Korn and father-inlaw of Harley Radin and John Bronson. Adored grandfather of
 LEWIS-David Kellogg. Died on Sunday, October 14, 2001, in Princeton, NJ. He was a Professor of Philosophy at Princeton University. Memorial service in Princeton will be announced at a later date. Memorial contributions may be made to the American Civil Liberties Union.       
 O'CONNELL-Vincent T. Passed peacefully on Sunday, October 14 2001. Beloved husband of Maire Fay. Devoted father of James, Mary and Anne. His gentle soul touched many along his journey of life and his loss will be greatly felt. Dad, you will forever remain in our hearts. Mass Thursday 9:30AM
 QUEEN-Alvin. On October 14, 2001 at age 88. Beloved husband of Renee. Loving father of Bo, Eric & Lisa, and father-in-law of Renee Garrick. Adoring grandfather to Pilar, Katie, Justin and Emily. Dear brother to Irma & Seymour. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue. at 81st Stre
 ROSENBLOOM-Ben. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Jewish Outreach Institute in New York, mourn the passing of Ben Rosenbloom, loving father of Howard Rosenbloom a generous benefactor of JOI, & grandfather of Keith Rosenbloom, esteemed member of our Board. Through his life he taught th
 ROSS-Herbert. American Ballet Theatre's Dancers and Staff pay tribute to one of our family, Herbert Ross (1927-2001). He will forever remain in our hearts and our thoughts.       
 STEVENS-Leonard A. Died on October 11 in his native New Hampshire, age 80. Author, raconteur, fighter for good causes. Loving father of Tim, Brooke, Sara and April. Devoted grandfather to Sam, Fenner, Sophie, Willa, Phoebe and Maddy. A memorial gathering will be held in Lyman, NH on October
 VAERST-Ralph. Died on October 11, 2001. Services will be held at 11:00AM on Thursday, October 18th, 2001 at the Colonial Mortuary of Crosby-N. Gray & Co., Burlingame. Mr. Vaerst was born in Surabaya, Indonesia on November 21, 1927, the only child of Dr. Louis and Mrs. Sarah Vaerst. In 1946 
 VAN ANTWERPEN-Dr. Franklin J. Died October 13, 2001 in Doylestown, PA. Former Executive Director of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers in NYC. Survived by his widow Dorothy, son U.S. District Judge Franklin S. of Easton, daughter Virginia of Apex, NC, six grandchildren and one gre
 Luis Antonio Garca Navarro, one of Spain's best known conductors and the first music and artistic director of Madrid's newly restored opera house, the Teatro Real, died on Oct. 10 in a Madrid clinic after a long illness. He was 61. The cause of death was cancer, according to Spani
 ABISH-Shelly. We will miss his indomitable spirit, the smile on his lips as he thought of a joke appropriate to the moment. He wanted great things for his friends and his love and care for Sheila surpassed everything. Don Buchwald       
 AUSTIN-Robert L. Of Pomona, NY died October 15, 2001. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Douglas and his wife Melissa, Tracey and her husband Jim Shannon and Meredith Austin. Dearest brother of Charles and his wife Yvette and adoring grandfather of Nicholas, Julia and Daniel. Servi
 BERNE-Robert M., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. In 1987, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacob Medallion, to Dr. Berne in acknowledgment of his profound professional achie
 DeMATTEIS-Frederick. On October 16, 2001. Beloved husband of Nancy. Devoted father of Linda, Richard, Scott and Tracey. Also survived by 13 grandchildren. Brother of Dolly and Alfonso. Reposing at Weigand Bros., 49 Hillside Avenue, Williston Park. Funeral Mass Thursday, October 18th, 2001, 
 JACOBSON-Harold G., M.D., died on October 14, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of Richard and Arthur and their spouses Judy and Peninah. Proud grandfather of David, Sam and Ben. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Ruth and Harold Jacobson Fund at Beit Rabban,
 KORN-Frank. Died peacefully on October 15, 2001 at the age of 88 at his home, with his family by his side. Beloved husband of Chizuko & the late Marian. Devoted father of Evelyn Radin, Carol Korn-Bronson and Susie Korn and father-inlaw of Harley Radin and John Bronson. Adored grandfather of
 KRAUT-Philip. Congregation Beth Sholom records the passing of our esteemed member and former Gabbai, Philip Kraut. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Rabbi Kenneth N. Hain Dr. Gilbert Klaperman, Rabbi Emeritus Danny Hiller, President Steven Wolinsky, Chairman of the Boa
 TOLL-Wilbur. Longtime Scarsdale resident, died October 15, 2001 at the age of 82. He is survived by his wife Olga (nee Mendell), three sons: David (Marce), Stanley (Julie) and Lawrence, one brother Lionel and several grandchildren. Mr. Toll had been in the book publishing business and upon 
 WALTON-Eugene W., President of Walton Hauling and Warehouse Corp., died October 15, 2001 after a short struggle with cancer. As President of Walton Hauling and Warehouse Corp., he succeeded his father and grandfather before him in steering the company into its current position. Having dedic
 Dr. Robert Matthew Berne, a heart specialist and educator whose textbooks were used by generations of doctors, died on Oct. 4 at his home in Charlottesville, Va., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Virginia Medical Center. He was 83. The cause was lung cancer, hi
 Willam F. Christensen, an enthusiastic champion of American ballet who headed important companies in Portland, Ore., San Francisco and Salt Lake City, died on Sunday in Salt Lake City, where he lived; he was 99. Mr. Christensen was the last survivor of the three Christensen brothers
 Frederick DeMatteis, longtime chairman and chief executive of the DeMatteis Organizations, a large development and construction corporation, died on Tuesday at his home in Old Westbury, N.Y. He was 78. He had been ill for 10 months, said Howard Blankman, a family spokesman. 
 Jay Livingston, the pop composer and lyricist who collaborated with Ray Evans on three movie songs that won Academy Awards -- ''Mona Lisa,'' ''Que Ser, Ser'' and ''Buttons and Bows'' -- died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 86 and lived in Los Angeles. In their heyday in the 194
 ADELSON-Beatrice. Of Dobbs Ferry, NY, formerly of Brookline, MA on October 16, 2001. Owner of the Beaze Shop of Coolidge Corner. Beloved wife of the late Harry Adelson. Dear daughter of the late Helen and Philip Gellar. Devoted mother of Warren Adelson and his wife Jan of Scarborough, NY. D
 AKIN-Adolph. October 15, 2001. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved Adolph. Adolph was Evalyn's devoted husband and best friend. He was a kind, caring, and gentle uncle to us. We will always remember him. Rest in peace, dear Adolph. Judy, James, and Joan AKIN-Adolph. October 15, 
 CAHN-William M., Jr. Of Purchase, NY on October 16, 2001, age 90. William's wife Margaret Millhauser Cahn, his son William M. Cahn III, five grandchildren and 7 great grandchildren survive. 2 sons, Stephen M. and Peter A. Cahn, predeceased him. William was a graduate of Phillips Exeter Acad
 DeMATTEIS-Frederick. We are deeply saddened by the loss of Fred DeMatteis, a great friend and gentleman. His leadership and inspiration will be missed by all of us. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire DeMatteis, family and his colleagues at the DeMatteis Organizations. MB Real Es
 GLASER-Sophie. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our Board Member Dr. Stephen Glaser, upon the loss of his mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 HANDEL-Benjamin K. Of North Miami Beach, FL., died October 17th, 2001. He is survived by his beloved wife Emma of 54 years, his son Jeffrey and his daughter Janet. For 23 years he held the post of the Sunday Magazine Editor of the New York Daily News.       
 JACOBSON-Harold G., M.D., died on October 14, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of Richard and Arthur and their spouses Judy and Peninah. Proud grandfather of David, Sam and Ben. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Ruth and Harold Jacobson Fund at Beit Rabban,
 JOHNSTON-John F. October 16, 2001, age 79. Talented teacher, UFT activist. Mourned by his family, wife and best friend, Louisa; children, Trevor & Elinor, & son-in-law, Carl. Funeral services will be held Thursday, October 18, 11 AM, at the Plaza Funeral Home, Amsterdam Avenue and 91st St. 
 KAHN-Irma (nee Berger). Peacefully on October 15, 2001 at age 94. Devoted and cherished mother of W. Harvey Mayer and Beatrice Birnbaum, and their spouses Irene, Barbara and Daniel, much beloved grandmother of Gordon, his wife Katie, Joanna and Rebecca, and great-grandmother of Max. Service
 LEWIS-David Kellog. Professor of Philosophy at Princeton, F.A.H.A., Doctor of Letters honoris causa of the University of Melbourne, a frequent visitor, and a constant friend to the Melbourne Philosophy Department. His many friends mourn his loss and offer Steffi our deepest sympathy.       
 MANSFIELD-Anthony Raymond, 58. Of Middletown, NJ on Tuesday, October 16, 2001. Beloved husband of Pasley Fisher Mansfield, loving son of the late Raymond John and Anita Mansfield, devoted father of Kenneth Jude Mansfield, Steven Anthony Mansfield, Michele D'Avanzo and Christina Savastano, d
 MISLAR-Marion, October 16, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Mislar. Beloved special mother of Janet and Tom Weltman. Cherished grandmother of Matthew and his wife Kimberly, Rodney and his wife Robyn and Melissa and great-grandmother of (GG) Sydney. She will be deeply missed. Funeral se
 ROTAN-Walter. Of New York City. Died October 15, 2001. Born in Baltimore, MD. in 1912, sculptor & teacher. Honored with prizes by the Pennsylvania Academy, the National Academy of Design and the Allied American Artists, his sculptures were included in exhibitions at the Art Institute of Chi
 SCHORR-Lionel A. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, brother-in-law, uncle, great uncle, and good friend to all. Died October 16, 2001 after a long illness sustained with courage and fortitude. Shiva at the Lehrman residence from Sunday, October 21st for a week. The Schorr Family
 SIKORSKY-Gregory R. Of Wesley Hills, New York, lost his life on September 11th, 2001 while heroically saving others in the World Trade Center. Greg was born on October 5, 1966 to George and Luzia Sikorsky in Manhattan, New York. Greg graduated East Ramapo High School in 1985 and worked as a
 SPIRO-Herbert I. December 18, 1913-October 5, 2001. Age 87 of Corvallis, Oregon, formerly of Stamford, Connecticut. Predeceased by his wife Norma Weitzer Spiro. Survived by children Edie and Louis and five grandchildren. Retired from The Social Security Administration in 1971.       
 VUILLIEZ-Raymond. Born on December 12, 1927. Died October 13, 2001. Loving father of Julian, Martin (Patricia), Christopher, Thomas. Raymond was adored by his brother Jean-Francois Vuilliez, and his nieces, nephews, family and friends. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, October 18th
 WEINSCHEL-Moe. Of Belle Harbor, NY on October 16, 2001, age 84. Beloved husband of Aida for 59 years. Cherished father of Alan and Sara Ameri. Adored father-inlaw of Barbara and the late Bob Ameri. Devoted grandfather of Daniel, Sharon, Lawrence, Jennifer, Adam, Naomi, Jessica, and Abigail.
 WINTON-David H. 29, of Brooklyn Heights, NY, and Wethersfield, CT, died September 11, 2001 at The World Trade Center. David was the beloved son of Joan Wise Winton and the late Peter A. Winton, adored brother of Sara Elizabeth Winton and fiance of Amy Elizabeth Lane, of Manhattan. He was bo
 Dr. Kenneth Locke Hale, a master of more than 50 languages and the keeper of aboriginal tongues in danger of vanishing with their speakers, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 67. The cause was prostate cancer, said the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where 
 ADELSON-Beatrice. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Beatrice Adelson, beloved mother of Warren Adelson, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Warren, and his wife, Jan; to Beatrice's four gran
 AKIN-Adolph. October 15, 2001 in Beverly Hills, California. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved Adolph. Adolph was Evalyn's devoted husband and best friend. He was a kind, caring, and gentle uncle to us. We will always remember him. Rest in peace, dear Adolph. Judy, James and Candy, Joa
 BOTTI-Richard J. Of Clark, on Wednesday, October 17, 2001, age 61. Loving husband of Marcia (Dabrowski); devoted father of John; beloved son of Gilda and the late Domenico Botti; cherished brother of Silvana (Allen) Hirsch. Funeral services will be held on Saturday, October 20th at 9:45 A.M
 DeMATTEIS-Fred. My heart is heavy upon learning of the passing of my very best friend Fred DeMatteis. Fred was a true gentleman and his handshake was his bond. Fred was kind, thoughtful, caring, generous and enormously charitable. Despite his much deserved success, he never forgot his humbl
 HESS-Peter J. Sr. Of Garden City, New York and Montauk, New York died on October 17, 2001 after a long battle with melanoma. Peter is survived by Karen, his devoted wife and best friend, his three devoted children, Peter, Melissa Eschmann, and Matthew, and devoted son-in-law Thomas Eschmann
 IRWIN-Charles Jr. October 17, 2001. Major USMC (retired). Beloved husband of Jane Darlington Irwin. Devoted father of Charles D. Irwin and his wife Dona. Cherished grandfather of Carter, Robert and Roger. He graduated from Schreiner Military Academy and Southern Methodist University, class 
 ISHMOLE-Jack. Died October 15th. Esteemed teacher in the Great Neck schools. Beloved friend, extraordinary human being. He will be missed by all. Elaine and Murray Margo       
 LEVY-Ralph. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Santa Fe Opera note with sadness the death of Ralph Levy, husband of founding board member, Miranda Levy. Mr. Levy will be remembered by his many opera friends for his kind and generous support of the company and its activities. David K. I
 MANSFIELD-Anthony R. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Seward & Kissel LLP deeply mourn the untimely passing on October 16, of Anthony R. Mansfield, our beloved partner and friend. Tony was a valued member of the firm's litigation practice for 33 years and his keen intellect, s
 ROMEO-Domenick R. On October 17, 2001. Dom has gone to the ''big cutting room in the sky.'' Forever in tandem with his wife Grayce, most loving & hip father of Erica and Nat, Marc and Leane, Peter and Helene, proud grandfather of Erin, Ethan, Lucas, Eden and Grayce. Also survived by his sis
 SCULLIN-Arthur Warren. On September 11, 2001, tragically missing at One World Trade Center. Senior Vice President and Director of Taxes of Marsh Inc. Loving husband of Catherine (Woods). Devoted son of Ethel (Gorman) and the late William. Cherished father of Arthur Warren, Jr., James and No
 STERN-Daniel B. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Daniel B. Stern. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Marjorie, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secretary  
 WILHELM-Glenn D. A devoted, caring family man who made good things happen. Our love follows him beyond time and space. the Wilhelm famil       
 Zhang Xueliang, a onetime warlord who in two turbulent weeks in 1936 helped turn the course of Chinese history -- and then spent the next 55 years under house arrest, gradually and reluctantly becoming a national hero -- died on Sunday in Honolulu, where he had been living in recent years. 
 Dr. Joseph B. Slowinski, an expert on venomous snakes who was in the middle of an ambitious inventory of the reptile and amphibian populations of Myanmar, died on Sept. 12 in the northern reaches of that country. He was 38. Dr. Slowinski, who recalled hunting for snakes at age 4 in 
 Brother Marinus Leonard LaRue, who as a merchant marine captain in the Korean War evacuated 14,000 refugees from a besieged North Korean port, died on Sunday at St. Paul's Abbey in Newton, N.J. Brother Marinus, who became a Benedictine monk after two decades at sea, was 87. Three da
 David Kellogg Lewis, a metaphysician and a philosopher of mind, language and logic at Princeton University, died on Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 60. The cause was heart failure, Princeton University said. Mr. Lewis was once dubbed ''a mad-dog modal realist'' 
 AKIN-Adolph. October 15, 2001 in Beverly Hills, California. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved Adolph. Adolph was Evalyn's devoted husband and best friend. He was a kind, caring, and gentle uncle to us. We will always remember him. Rest in peace, dear Adolph. Judy, James and Candy, Joa
 BAUMER-William J. On October 17, 2001. Director of Publications, Hunter College, CUNY. Former editor, TimesFax, and writer/editor, Associated Press and Queens College. Beloved son of Nelson and Catherine nee Boyle. Loving brother of Nelson, brother-in-law of Donna, adoring uncle of Fiona an
 CANNON-Prof. Gerard. The Pace University community mourns the loss of its dear colleague, Professor Gerard Cannon, who served at Pace for 50 years. He became Professor and served as Associate Chair of the English Department for twenty years. Our sympathy is extended to his wife, Eileen, and
 IRWIN-Charles Jr. October 17, 2001. Major USMC (retired). Beloved husband of Jane Darlington Irwin. Devoted father of Charles D. Irwin and his wife Dona. Cherished grandfather of Carter, Robert and Roger. He graduated from Schreiner Military Academy & Southern Methodist University, class of
 KIRSHNER-Lester. Caring and supportive father to Lizzie and Jonny, wonderful father-in-law to Andy & Esty, precious & bestest Bopa to Matty, Jessie, Elie and Ari, dear brother to Florence, dear friend and brother-in-law to Burt, loving uncle and great-uncle, great friend to many. ''He did i
 Richard Buckle, an influential British dance critic and dance historian and the organizer of imaginative exhibitions, died on Oct. 12 while being taken by ambulance from his country cottage in Dorset to a hospital in Salisbury. He was 85. Mr. Buckle wrote sharp-tongued reviews and s
 Dr. Bernard H. Fox, a federal researcher who became a pioneer in investigating the effect of psychological problems on cancer risk, died on Oct. 9 at a hospital in Everett, Mass. He was 83 and lived in the nearby town of Malden, outside Boston. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his 
 Murray Schwartz, a former New York State senator from Queens, died on Oct. 5 at his summer home in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 82 and also had a home in Lake Worth, Fla. He was a Democrat in the State Senate from 1965 to 1973 and later was New York City commissioner of commerce and industry
 AKIN-Adolph. October 15, 2001 in Beverly Hills, California. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved Adolph. Adolph was Evalyn's devoted husband and best friend. He was a kind, caring, and gentle uncle to us. We will always remember him. Rest in peace, dear Adolph. Judy, James and Candy, Joa
 BERKOWITZ-Paul Norman. Of the Bronx, NY, on October 19, 2001. Son of the late Louis and Fanny Berkowitz. Born in Boston, MA, on January 22, 1921, the youngest of seven children. He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Edith Berkowitz and three children, Dr. Murray R. Berkowitz and his wife 
 FLEISCHMANN-Stephen Gardner. Died peacefully in his sleep on Wednesday, October 17th. The cause was a heart attack. Born on May 24th, 1953 in New York City, son of the late Nancy M. Schmidt and the late Peter F. Fleischmann, and stepson of Jeanne C. Fleischmann and the late Benno C. Schmidt
 GORDUN-Jack Harris. October 13, of NYC, and Swampscott, Mass. Beloved husband of the late Winifred (Wolfe) Gordun. Devoted father of Douglas Wolfe Gordun of NYC. Services at Stanetsky-Hymanson Memorial Chapel, Salem, MA., (800-842-4280), Monday, Oct. 29, at 1 PM. Donations in his memory to:
 HOFFMANN-Rolf. We are very saddened by the passing of Rolf Hoffmann who died peacefully at home in Berlin after a long illness. He was a beloved member of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art who brought great passion, intelligence, and spirit to the Council & to contempora
 IRWIN-Charles Jr. October 17, 2001. Major USMC (retired). Beloved husband of Jane Darlington Irwin. Devoted father of Charles D. Irwin and his wife Dona. Cherished grandfather of Carter, Robert and Roger. He graduated from Schreiner Military Academy & Southern Methodist University, class of
 KIRSHNER-Lester. Caring and supportive father to Lizzie and Jonny, wonderful father-in-law to Andy & Esty, precious & bestest Bopa to Matty, Jessie, Elie and Ari, dear brother to Florence, dear friend and brother-in-law to Burt, loving uncle and great-uncle, great friend to many. ''He did i
 LAWRENCE-Alexander K., 89. Of Meadowood at Worcester in Lansdale, PA and formerly of Chestnut Hill, PA died Oct. 12, 2001. Mr. Lawrence grew up in Cranford, NJ, graduated from Colgate University and attended Harvard Law School. Mr. Lawrence is survived by his son Richard S. Lawrence, daught
 LESER-Jacques. Of Manhattan, formerly of Mt. Vernon, at the age of 88 after a long courageous battle with Alzheimer's disease on October 19, 2001. After serving in the Belgian Army, Mr. Leser, a native of Antwerp, emigrated to the United States in 1941 and re-established the family business
 LIEBERMAN-Herbert. An indefatigable worker for many good causes. Herb, as our long time President, gave his all for the welfare of our building. We will miss him greatly. The Board of 3616 Henry Hudson Pkwy Owners Corp       
 MANDEL-Morton. Died October 20th after a prolonged illness. He was a kind, thoughtful, generous man who spent his working years in advertising and served in the armed forces in WW II. He was a true gentleman and loving companion. I shall miss him very much. Myrtle       
 MINER-William R., Ph.D. Age 68. On October 18, 2001, unexpectedly. Loving husband of Anne, father of Reeve Washburn of Seattle, Washington, and Neal Miner of New York, New York, and doting grandfather of Faye Washburn. A lifelong Manhattan resident, he was a practicing psychoanalyst. Bill h
 PATIL-Dr. Channabasappa S., 50, 13 October. His colleagues mourn the untimely passing in India of our constant friend and one of southern India's most able young archaeologists and epigraphists. Deputy Director of the Karnataka Department of Archaeology and Museums, his exemplary research o
 POMERANCE-Joseph. On Oct. 12th in Los Angeles at 92. Devoted husband of the late Millicent. Beloved father of Lisa Greenberg and Larry, grandfather, greatgrandfather. Donations in his memory may be made to Goddard-Riverside Community Ctr, 593 Columbus Ave., NYC 10024.       
 RIVERS-David Ellis. Age 40, of New York City, on September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Ricky Vider Rivers & father of James Rivers; son of Tom and Barbara Rivers of Chilmark, MA.; brother of Diane Rivers and uncle of James Anderson of Sarasota, FL. Editorial Dire
 SACK-John Terence (Terry), 60. Survived by his children, Brian Sack and Kate McAllister, and grandson Logan McAllister. Spent the majority of his career at Salomon Brothers. Memorial will be held on Saturday, October 27 at noon at O'Brien's in Annapolis. For information and to RSVP, contact
 SINDER-Dr. Leon. Noted cultural anthropologist and professor at Long Island University, UNESCO field representative and businessman, died on October 3rd as a result of an accident; he was 79. Dr. Sinder was born in Ediniti, Romania on September 5th, 1922 and came to the United States in Dec
 WEINSTEIN-Frederic D. A former professor and academic dean, died on Monday, October 15. He was a writer as well as being a composer and pianist. He and his wife Suzanne divided their time among Boston, London, New York and Maine, where they were active in environmental causes and artistic p
 Dr. Edward P. Radford, who energetically promoted a higher estimate of the cancer risk from radiation exposure and whose position was eventually upheld, died on Oct. 12 at his home in Haslemere, England. He was 79. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Dr. Radford was cha
 James F. Phillips, an environment advocate who used flamboyant tactics like putting metal caps on top of belching smoke stacks, then leaving a note signed ''the Fox,'' died on Oct. 3 in Aurora, Ill. He was 70. The cause was complications of diabetes, his sister Dorothy Spring said. 
 Joseph H. Crown, who was active in the Lawyers Committee on American Policy Towards Vietnam, died on Sept. 28 at his home in Cuernavaca, Mexico. He was in his mid-90's and also had a home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. Mr. Crown, a Manhattan-based lawyer, was secretary of the Lawyers Com
 FLEISCHMANN-Stephen Gardner. Died peacefully in his sleep on Wednesday, October 17th. The cause was a heart attack. Born on May 24th, 1953 in New York City, son of the late Nancy M. Schmidt and the late Peter F. Fleischmann, and stepson of Jeanne C. Fleischmann and the late Benno C. Schmidt
 GAW-Archibald W. (Archie). Of Katonah, NY, formerly of the Bronx, NY, died October 19, 2001. He was 90 years old. Archie worked for Mobil Oil Corporation in New york, NY, for over 30 years and was an active member of the Katonah United Methodist Church. He is survived by his brother Donald 
 IRWIN-Charles Jr. October 17, 2001. Major USMC (retired). Beloved husband of Jane Darlington Irwin. Devoted father of Charles D. Irwin and his wife Dona. Cherished grandfather of Carter, Robert and Roger. He graduated from Schreiner Military Academy & Southern Methodist University, class of
 KANE-Thomas James. Passed away on October 20, 2001, at 91 years of age in New York City. He was the beloved husband of the late Beatrice Staunton Kane, loving father of Anne Shea, Kathryn Conboy, Beatrice O'Connell, Thomas Kane, Jr. and Edward Kane. He was the cherished grandfather of 17, a
 Don S. Maurer, a longtime advertising and marketing executive who was president and chief executive at one of the largest ad agencies in the Southeast, McKinney & Silver, died on Saturday. He was 47. The cause was injuries suffered in an automobile accident in Raleigh, N.C., accordi
 Henryk Tomaszewski, a Polish theater artist who surprised the West with his dreamlike, wordless presentations and influenced American avant-garde artists like Robert Wilson and Meredith Monk, died on Sept. 23 in Kowary, near Wroclaw, Poland. He was 81. The cause was a cerebral hemor
 Howard Finster, a Baptist preacher whose evangelical faith, outgoing personality and compulsive work habits made him one of the most prominent and prolific folk artists of the 20th century, died yesterday in a hospital in Rome, Ga. He was 84 and lived in Summerville, Ga., a few miles from t
 Louis Zara, a publisher and editor of magazines and books who was best known for his own historical novels, died on Oct. 5 in his Manhattan apartment. He was 91. Mr. Zara was known for long, weighty novels, many of them with historical heroes, from Stephen Crane to Herman Melville t
 ADLER-Theodore W. Died at home in Scarsdale, NY on October 22, age 95. Devoted husband of Martelle and loving father of Louise and the late Thomas. Senior partner of Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman and Herz, LLP. Born in Des Moines, IA, brought up in Mattoon, IL, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa 
 BEHRE-Joan Butler, 72. Of Pensacola, FL died peacefully at home Oct. 20, 2001. A native of New Rochelle, Mrs. Behre graduated from Wellesley College, worked for American Cyanamid in New York and was a stockbroker with A.G. Edwards & Sons. Survivors include daughter Jennifer of New York City
 CIMBERG - Alan. ''Grandpa Pookie'' to family and friends, died in his sleep at home on October 21, 2001. Beloved husband of Freda for 64 years. Loving father of Janice Cimberg and the late Dr. Robert Cimberg. Adored grandfather of Jonathan Fried, his wife, Sharon Greenberger, and Andrew Fri
 FLEISCHMANN-Stephen Gardner. Died peacefully in his sleep on Wednesday, October 17th. The cause was a heart attack. Born on May 24th, 1953 in New York City, son of the late Nancy M. Schmidt and the late Peter F. Fleischmann, and stepson of Jeanne C. Fleischmann and the late Benno C. Schmidt
 JONES-Christopher D. 53. Of Huntington, NY, on September 11, 2001, at The World Trade Center. He worked at Cantor Fitzgerald where he was a partner. Born and raised in England, he graduated from Cambridge University, Fitzwilliam College in 1969. Beloved husband of thirty-one years of Susan,
 KATZ-Martin, 73, a private investor, passed away October 18 following a fall at his home the preceding week. Until several years ago, Mr. Katz was president of PS Products, Inc., a specialty printer. An alumnus of The Townsend Harris School and Rutgers University, he is survived by his fian
 MORROW-Benjamin David. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its devoted member, Dr. Ira Morrow. May his family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 PITNEY-Shelton, died October 21st in Princeton, NJ. Surviving are Jean Gorman of Princeton, his companion of 18 years, daughter Anita Fiorillo of NYC, sons Shelton Pitney III of NY, David Pitney of MA and Maxwell Marston of CT, and brother James C. Pitney of NJ. Funeral service Thursday, 11
 WINDELL-Martin. 73. On October 19, 2001. Beloved father of Mark, David and Jeffrey (Shari). His intelligence and unconditional love will be forever remembered.       
 ELAHI-Cyrus. One with love in his heart never dies.       
 Sir John Plumb, a prolific British historian of the 18th century whose  lucrative and popular history books and unerring knack for picking brilliant students may have eclipsed his own potential as a serious historian, died Sunday in Cambridge, England. He was 90. Sir John was a form
 ADLER-Theodore W. The partners, associates and staff of Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP announce with sorrow the passing of our beloved senior partner, Theodore W. Adler, who, during almost 70 years with us made a major and long lasting contribution to the vitality, spirit and pur
 AMMON-R. Theodore. The board, staff and artists of Jazz at Lincoln Center are profoundly saddened by the death of our chairman, R. Theodore Ammon. Ted was a great and loyal friend of this organization, since joining the board in 1996 and becoming chairman in March of this year. A tireless s
 ANSCOMBE - Francis John. Professor (Emeritus) of Statistics, Yale University, died on October 17 in New Haven. He was 83. Born in Elstree, England, he studied Mathematics at Trinity College, Cambridge, taking First Class Honours in 1939. He taught at Cambridge, Princeton, and the University
 BROWN-Earl B., 83, of Larchmont, NY died Sunday, October 21, 2001. Chief of Allergy at Lenox Hill Hospital, President of NY Allergy Society, Adjunct Professor of Internal Medicine at Columbia Physicians and Surgeons, pioneered research in treatment of allergies with steroids. An internation
 BROWN-Jules. Passed away on October 23, 2001 at the age of 92 after a fall. Loving husband of Letty and the late Fannie. Beloved father of Karen, Vicki, Maddie and Eddie Cohen. Devoted grandfather to Barbara and Jay Lubliner and Allison Cohen and cherished uncle to his nieces and nephews. A
 CURRAN-William J. Jr., The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of William J. Curran, Jr., a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Hist
 KIRK-The Rev. William H., director of Union Settlement in East Harlem from 1949 to 1971, died October 19, 2001 in Branford, CT. He was 92. He is survived by three daughters, nine grandchildren and six great grandchildren. Services will be at 3 p.m. Friday, October 26, at Trinity on the Gree
 MAURER-Don S., President and CEO of McKinney & Silver, died in a tragic automobile accident on October 20, 2001. Don was born in Oceanside, New York on August 13, 1954. Don was a star quarterback in high school, and continued his football career as a defensive end at Long Island University,
 REGENHARD-Christian Michael Otto. Age 28. FDNY. Missing since responding to the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Christian graduated from the Fire Academy on July 27, 2001. He was a Firefighter for six weeks. Born and raised in Co-op City, Bronx, he graduate
 SCHWARTZ-Jack. 76, ''Papa Jack'' peacefully on October 22. Beloved husband of Sherrie, his ''Babe''. Devoted and loving father of Jeffrey, Kenneth, Judy and Richard and their spouses Debbie, Betty and Bob. Cherished grandfather to Jason, Matthew, Jessica, Danny, Sam, Alex and Lara. Brother 
 SHAMAH-David I. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the Magen David Yeshivah, Isaac Shalom Elementary School, Celia Esses High School, and Joseph and Lilly Aboudi Preschool mourn the loss of our very dear friend, David I. Shamah, father of our esteemed President, Steven D. Shamah. We exte
 WEISS-Joseph. The National Officers of EMUNAH of America mourn the passing of Joseph Weiss, beloved husband of our esteemed Honorary National President, Renee Weiss. For the past 50 years, Joe was a devoted partner to his wife Renee in building EMUNAH, both in the United States and in Israe
 WILSON-Jeffrey T., Wall Street Trader and philanthropist, died Wednesday, October 10th in Houston, Texas. After surviving a terrible automobile accident on September 11, 2000, Mr. Wilson fought against the odds towards recovery. His recovery spanned from Hollywood Memorial Hospital in Flori
 Pavel G. Bunich, a moderate Russian economic reformer and two-time Parliament member who broadly supported the switch to a market-based economy under Presidents Mikhail S. Gorbachev and Boris N. Yeltsin, died on Saturday in Moscow. He was 71. His family gave no cause. A prol
 The Rev. William Henry Kirk, a prominent figure in the settlement-house movement and a community leader in East Harlem as it underwent a historic transformation, died last Friday in Branford, Conn. He was 92 and lived in Hamden, Conn., and on Isle au Haut, Me. Mr. Kirk was executive
 Francis John Anscombe, a mathematician who helped computerize statistical analyses while seeking to avoid flawed interpretations of such data, died Oct. 17 at his home in New Haven. He was 83. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, according to Yale University, where he retired in 1988 
 George Feyer, a gifted pianist and delightfully versatile entertainer who charmed Manhattan cafe society at the Carlyle, Stanhope and Waldorf-Astoria hotels for three decades, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Feyer mixed an ed
 ADLER-Theodore W. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Theodore W. Adler. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Martelle, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard Bronstein, Secretary
 AMMON-R. Theodore. The Board of Directors and staff of the YMCA of Greater New York are deeply saddened by the death of Ted Ammon. As a member of the Board from 1991 to 1999, Ted demonstrated a deep commitment to youth. His leadership, compassion and enthusiasm helped strengthen the YMCA an
 ANYON-Gilbert. Of North Salem. Born June 29, 1921; passed away October 19, 2001 of heart failure. Beloved husband of Connie Fox & cherished father of Timi Hallem & Jill Anyon. The best grandfather Elissa and Seth Hallem could have had. The world is richer for his life and poorer for his los
 BROWN-Earl, Dr. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Gertrude. Corey B. Rabin, President Ronald M. Stuart, Secretary       
 COHEN-Bernard H. October 24,2001. Known for his generous heart and joking nature. Beloved husband of Gloria L. Cohen, cherished father of Lynne and Barry Reik, adoring grandfather of Dana and Zoe, devoted brother of Janice Brant. Graveside service 11AM Friday, Westchester Hills Cemetery, Ha
 EDELSON-Robert. 89, formerly of Brooklyn, passed away peacefully on October 23, 2001. Caring, devoted and loving husband of 65 years to Beatrice. Proud father of Drs. Kenneth and Stephen. Loving father-in-law of Carol. Doting grandfather to Dana, Richie, Alex, Bradley and Joshua, and devote
 EPSTEIN-Eli. Died Oct. 22 after a brief illness. A Social Worker who was committed to social justice throughout his life. A loyal and devoted friend who will be missed by his family and his many friends. Services at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Avenue at 10th Street, Thursday at 2
 FELDSTEIN - Mark. Renowned photographer and dedicated teacher. A guiding presence of our photography program, loved by his students for his capacity to inspire and guide and by his colleagues and friends, for his intelligence and wit. We mourn his sudden untimely death, and offer our condol
 GOOTMAN-Dr. Norman. We mourn the passing of our father, Dr. Norman Gootman. He was a devoted and loving husband of the late Phyllis M. Gootman. Beloved father of Sharon Rosen and Craig Gootman. Cherished grandfather of Joshua and Nathaniel Rosen, and Alexandra Gootman, and friend to many. O
 HAUSDORFF-David M. Died on October 23, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Fanny R. Hausdorff, father of Henry, Riley and the late Thomas. Also survived by nine grandchildren and 30 great-grandchildren. Burial in Israel. Shiva at his home in Boca Raton, FL.       
 KIRK-William H. Yes, Bill Kirk was a civic leader in his generation, but he was also, to the next generation and together with Mary, a wonderfully genial and welcoming host to his daughters' chums and suitors. The Claremont-Riverside Gang       
 MARCUS-Robert P., life-long love, companion, and best friend of his wife Betty G. Marcus; beloved son of the late Libby P. Marcus and Bernard K. Marcus; caring and devoted son-in-law of the late Ziuta Gerstenzang Akston and Leo Gerstenzang; proud and loving father of his daughter, Lauren Ma
 MINTZ-Francis, Esq. The Joint Retirement Board for Conservative Judaism deeply mourns the passing of ''Fritz'' Mintz -a devoted Trustee who worked tirelessly for the benefit of our members and for all of Conservative Judaism, to which he referred as his ''beloved second family of the past f
 NORMAN-Eric T., 89. A man of extraordinary spirit & drive, gifted with a truly great natural voice. Working at WOR in the 40's and 50's Big Band era, nightly Eric announced big name band shows, e.g. ''Harry James Live from the Astor Roof'' and most of Duke Ellington's ''Live from Birdland''
 ROSEN-Arnold P. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Arnold P. Rosen, generous benefactor and devoted friend of the CollegeIns
 WALLACE-Robert F. Lt. FDNY. Engine 205 Ladder 118 of Woodhaven, NY formerly of Brooklyn, NY in his 43rd year heroically in the line of duty while helping others at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. A member of the FDNY for 21 years. Beloved husband of Nancy, a loving and devoted
 Daniel Wildenstein, the French-born head of one of the art world's wealthiest and most secretive dynasties who was also a prominent figure in thoroughbred horse-racing circles, died on Tuesday in a Paris hospital, the Wildenstein Institute announced here today. He was 84. Mr. Wilden
 Ken Aston, the referee for one of the most infamous World Cup soccer matches and the originator of the cards used to indicate that a player is guilty of misconduct, died Tuesday in Ilford, England. He was 86 and lived in Ilford. Aston, a longtime British referee, officiated the open
 AMMON-Ted. Age 52, on October 22, 2001. Survived by his wife Generosa. Loving father of Alexa and Gregory. Devoted brother of Sandi Williams. Memorial service Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center, Monday, October 29th, 1 P.M. Contributions in his memory may be made to Jazz at Lincoln Center, 
 CAMARDELLA-Louis F. On October 24 of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of Cecelia. Dear father of James, Cecelia, Lois, & Nancy. Loving grandfather of 6. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset on Saturday & Sunday 3-5 & 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass Monday 10AM St. Mar
 FEINGOLD-Norman S., 78. On Oct. 24, 2001 after a long and courageous fight against lymphoma. Born in Brooklyn, NY, December 11th, 1922. Most dearly beloved husband of Natalie (Arond). Cherished father of Carol Feingold Neiditch, Roberta Palant (Hy Shuster), Elise Feingold. Proud and loving 
 FORGAN-James Russell, Jr. Age 71. Investment banker. Died peacfully at home on October 22, 2001 after a long illness in New York City. Beloved husband of Kathryn Zahony Livingston; dear brother of the late Joan F. Parks of Denver, Florence F. Wheeler of Lake Forest and Ada F. Addington of C
 GOLOVIN-Willard Bayer. On Sunday, October 21, 2001, at age 93. Devoted husband of Isabelle Ripley Peck Golovin, beloved father of Ripley Hathaway and father-inlaw of Tyler Hathaway, and cherished ''Pop-Pop'' to Clement Willard Beecher Hathaway. Interment services were private. In lieu of fl
 GOOTMAN-Norman, M.D. The founding Chief and Chief of Pediatric Cardiology at Long Island Jewish Medical Center from 1965 to 1988. He was Professor of Pediatrics at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and made seminal contributions to the medical literature on pediatric cardiology. He es
 LIEBMAN-Bernard. Commercial photographer, 86, husband, father, father-in-law, grandfather, brother, and veteran of World War II, died October 24 of complications from lung cancer. Mr. Liebman was a staff sergeant during World War II and served as a photographer in the Army Signal Corps. He 
 MAHER-Daniel L., 50. Was a victim of the World Trade Center attack. Beloved husband of 26 years to Kathy. Devoted father & father-in-law to Daniel and Lisa, Joseph and his girlfriend, Renee. Cherished son to Jeanne and the late Raymond Maher, and son-inlaw of the late Frances and Anton Stol
 MARCUS-Robert P., life-long love, companion, and best friend of his wife Betty G. Marcus; beloved son of the late Libby P. Marcus and Bernard K. Marcus; caring and devoted son-in-law of the late Ziuta Gerstenzang Akston and Leo Gerstenzang; proud and loving father of his daughter, Lauren Ma
 MILLER-Arthur M., April 19, 1922October 23, 2001. Beloved father of Dianne Newman & Howard Miller, M.D.; grandfather to Leigh, Jill and Stacy and loving partner of 40 years to Hal Bishop. Born in Ft. Worth, Texas, Arthur established a home accessory business in Meachems Dept. Store before m
 NAGAMATSU-George R., MD. New York Medical College is saddened by the passing of our alumnus, esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. George R. Nagamatsu, distinguished Emeritus Professor of Urology and Chairman of the Dept. of Urology for 15 years. A 1934 graduate of the School of Medicine, Dr. 
 SHEVLIN-Alexander. Of Atlantic City, NJ, died on October 20, 2001. Formerly of Philadelphia and Honolulu. Son of the late Isador and Celia Shavelenko and husband of the late Jean Korn Shevlin. He is survived by his sister Sally and her husband Abbe, and their two sons David Edward and Ian S
 WALLACE-Robert F. Lt. FDNY. Engine 205 Ladder 118 of Woodhaven, NY formerly of Brooklyn, NY in his 43rd year heroically in the line of duty while helping others at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. A member of the FDNY for 21 years. Beloved husband of Nancy, a loving and devoted
 PINE-Arthur (Artie). October 26, 2000. Our friendship began in 1946. We loved him and miss him so much. My daily reports are going nowhere. Leonard Wurzel       
 Former Representative Thomas Nelms Downing, a conservative Democrat who represented the Peninsula district of eastern Virginia from 1958 to 1976, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Newport News, his hometown. He was 82. The cause was emphysema and cancer, his law firm said. Mr
 William F. Melville Jr., the former chief executive of a large credit card company and executive of a bank, died on Oct. 10 at a nursing home in Arnold, Md. He was 80 and lived in Severna Park, Md. The cause was respiratory failure stemming from Alzheimer's disease, The Baltimore Su
 Ferris Fain, the American League batting champion in 1951 and '52 and a slick-fielding first baseman for the lackluster Philadelphia Athletics, died on Oct. 18 at his home in Georgetown, Calif. He was 80. He had been in poor health for many years, with leukemia and diabetes.        
 Gerald B.H. Solomon, a conservative former congressman from New York who led crusades to punish flag burners and draft dodgers, died today at his home in Glens Falls, N.Y. Mr. Solomon, who retired from the House in 1998, died from congestive heart failure, his family said. He was 71
 Ismat Kittani, an adroit Kurdish diplomat who represented Iraq at the United Nations from 1985 to 1989, was president of the General Assembly and served five secretaries general in senior posts, died on Tuesday in Geneva. He was 72. The cause was cancer. Mr. Kittani's term as Iraqi 
 ALDRICH-Larry. The staff of The Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Connecticut, mourns the passing of the Museum's founder and Chairman Emeritus, Larry Aldrich, and celebrates his commitment to emerging artists and the art of our time. His support of the Museum's curatorial a
 AMMON-Ted. Age 52, on October 22, 2001. Survived by his wife Generosa. Loving father of Alexa and Gregory. Devoted brother of Sandi Williams. Memorial service Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center, Monday, October 29th, 1 P.M. Contributions in his memory may be made to Jazz at Lincoln Center, 
 BISSINGER-Harry Gerard II. On October 25, 2001, age 75. Beloved husband of Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger. Loving father of Ann Bissinger and Harry Gerard Bissinger III. Adoring grandfather of Gerry, Zachary and Caleb Bissinger and Sarah Poor. Dear brother of Eli Kaufman. Friends may call at F
 MARCUS-Robert P., life-long love, companion, and best friend of his wife Betty G. Marcus; beloved son of the late Libby P. Marcus and Bernard K. Marcus; caring and devoted son-in-law of the late Ziuta Gerstenzang Akston and Leo Gerstenzang; proud and loving father of his daughter, Lauren Ma
 MESSING-George J. Of Woodmere, New York, Oct. 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Cherished father & father-in-law of Joel & Barbara, Fred & Laura, Rick & Carol, Michael and Carol. Beloved stepfather of Sunny and John, Michael and Diane, Sheryl & Hap. Proud grandfather. Mr. Messing worked 
 OBENZINGER-Nathan, 94. October 24, 2001. Beloved husband of Romana, loving father of Ronald, Mark and Hilton and generous grandfather to Rachel, Isaac and Eric. A good man, a good husband and a good father. Our love for him goes on.       
 SCHMIDT-James Francis, of Guttenberg, NJ on Thursday, October 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Agnes Schmidt. Devoted father of James Joseph, John Philip, Valerie Jean Connors, and Alison Christine Skertic. Loving grandfather of eight grandchildren. James was predeceased by his brothers, John H
 SHEVLIN-Alexander. Of Atlantic City, NJ, died on October 20, 2001. Formerly of Philadelphia and Honolulu. Son of the late Isador and Celia Shavelenko and husband of the late Jean Korn Shevlin. He is survived by his sister Sally and her husband Abbe, and their two sons David Edward and Ian S
 SOLOMON-Irving, MD on October 25, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Rebecca Aqua. Revered father of June Ivy and learned physician. He will be profoundly missed. Service Monday 12:45pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue.       
 WILDENSTEIN - Daniel. The Board and staff of the French Institute Alliance Francaise extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Daniel Wildenstein. Often behind the scenes, the Wildenstein family has played a crucial role in advancing French - American friendship and French culture thro
 SAVAGE-David. October 27, 1989. Remembered always, with love, by his family.       
 Piero Corsini, a dealer in old master paintings who had galleries in New York and Monaco, died on Monday in Monaco. He was 63 and lived in Monaco. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Corsini was born in Florence, Italy, and began to acquire and stu
 Ernest A. Lindner, whose business of selling and upgrading Linotype machines became a single-minded mission of collecting and preserving hundreds of antique presses and other printing equipment, died on Oct. 3. He was 79 and lived in Glendale, Calif. The cause was heart failure, his
 Marvin Harris, an anthropologist who spent his career adding fuel to the fires of academic controversy, as when he theorized that the cannibalism of the Aztecs was motivated by protein deprivation, died on Thursday in Gainesville, Fla., where he lived. He was 74. His daughter, Susan
 ADENBAUM-David. 86, died October 27, 2001, after a gracious struggle with heart disease and leukemia. Beloved husband of the late Betty (nee Sachs). Adored father of Samuel and his wife Gilda Kramer, Ann and her fiance Alan Schramm. Proud grandfather of Jacob and Benjamin Adenbaum. Caring b
 ALDRICH-Larry. The staff of The Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Connecticut, mourns the passing of the Museum's founder and Chairman Emeritus, Larry Aldrich, and celebrates his commitment to emerging artists and the art of our time. His support of the Museum's curatorial a
 AMMON-Ted. Age 52, on October 22, 2001. Survived by his wife Generosa. Loving father of Alexa and Gregory. Devoted brother of Sandi Williams. Memorial service Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center, Monday, October 29th, 1 P.M. Contributions in his memory may be made to Jazz at Lincoln Center, 
 BISSINGER-Harry Gerard II. On October 25, 2001, age 75. Beloved husband of Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger. Loving father of Ann Bissinger and Harry Gerard Bissinger III. Adoring grandfather of Gerry, Zachary and Caleb Bissinger and Sarah Poor. Dear brother of Eli Kaufman. Friends may call at F
 BONIME-Walter. The faculty of The Psychoanalytic Institute and The Department of Psychiatry at New York Medical College are saddened by the loss of their respected colleague, teacher and friend. A psychoanalytic innovator, he was widely known for his pioneering work on the clinical understa
 DANIEL-Richard Nicholas. Briarcliff, NY, October 25, 2001. Richard Nicholas Daniel, the former chairman and CEO of Handy & Harman, one of the world's foremost manufacturers of precious metals, and a 30-year resident of Briarcliff Manor, New York, and New York City, died on Thursday at Sleep
 FEINGOLD-Norman S., 78. On October 24, 2001 after a long and courageous fight against lymphoma. Born in Brooklyn, NY on December 11, 1922. Most dearly beloved husband of Natalie (Arond). Cherished father of Carol Feingold Neiditch, Roberta Palant (Hy Shuster), Elise Feingold. Proud and lovi
 FORGAN-James Russell, Jr. Age 71. Investment banker. Died peacfully at home on October 22, 2001 after a long illness in New York City. Beloved husband of Kathryn Zahony Livingston; dear brother of the late Joan F. Parks of Denver, Florence F. Wheeler of Lake Forest and Ada F. Addington of C
 GENUNG-Alfred Gawthrop. Died October 24, 2001, in Southbury, CT. He was 92. A retired banker, he lived most of his life in Plainfield, NJ, and Princeton, NJ, where he was active in numerous civic affairs. He was predeceased in 1980 by his wife of 43 years, Dorothy Madsen Genung. His second 
 GIOVINE-Giulio. We mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Giulio Giovine, 53, who passed away on October 20. His BNL colleagues will always remember him as a family loving man and as a loyal professional whose work ethics and dedication were inspirational. He will be dearly missed by h
 GLOSTER-Charles D. Architect, 79, died October 21, 2001. Beloved husband of Muriel (Fried) for more than 59 years. Devoted father of Robert Gloster and Susan D'Ver. Adoring grandfather of Ethan D'Ver and Talia Eshel Gloster. Dear brother of Helen Richards and the late Amos E. Gloster. He fi
 GOLDSTEIN-Bess Farber. The partners and associates of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend their deepest sympathy to our dear friend and colleague, Neil Goldstein on the loss of his beloved mother Bess Farber Goldstein. We share our sincerest condolences with the entire Goldstein f
 GOLOVIN-Willard Bayer. On Sunday, October 21, 2001, at age 93. Devoted husband of Isabelle Ripley Peck Golovin, beloved father of Ripley Hathaway and father-inlaw of Tyler Hathaway, and cherished ''Pop-Pop'' to Clement Willard Beecher Hathaway. Interment services were private. In lieu of fl
 MacISAAC - Brittan Campbell. Died on October 12th in Hopewell Junction, NY. Survivors include his three children, Gregory, Christine and Douglas, his former wife Virginia Cornell MacIsaac and two stepdaughters Holly Berkley and Heather Smith MacIsaac. Mr. MacIsaac was President of Building 
 MANDEL-Morton. Died October 20th after a prolonged illness. He was a kind, thoughtful, generous man who spent his working years in advertising and served in the armed forces in WW II. He was a true gentleman and loving companion. I shall miss him very much. Myrtle       
 MARCUS-Robert P., life-long love, companion, and best friend of his wife Betty G. Marcus; beloved son of the late Libby P. Marcus and Bernard K. Marcus; caring and devoted son-in-law of the late Ziuta Gerstenzang Akston and Leo Gerstenzang; proud and loving father of his daughter, Lauren Ma
 MORRONE-Joseph P. On October 26, 2001. Loving son of Lee and Joe. His whole world was his loving mother. Joseph leaves behind his loving sister Dr. Lee Morrone, brother-in-law Joe Fierro and his special niece and Godson Allegra and Joseph Jr. Joseph worked for the Office of US Customs for 1
 OBENZINGER-Nathan, 94. October 24, 2001. Beloved husband of Romana, loving father of Ronald, Mark and Hilton and generous grandfather to Rachel, Isaac and Eric. A good man, a good husband and a good father. Our love for him goes on.       
 PARNES-Aaron. 86. On October 27, 2001. Beloved husband of Martha. Survived by his niece Carole Parnes-Kaufman; his cousins Irving Parnes, Eleanor Silver, Judy Winters; sister-in-law Alice Parnes; and loving friend Arnold Brown. Mr. Parnes was founder of Parnes Feinstein of NYC. Original Tru
 PAZ-Peter. Photographer. 64. He has died in Nice, France, after a lengthy illness. Known mainly for his corporate annual report and advertising photography, he was winner of the Clio Award for the Otis Annual Report. Represented by the Image Bank, his clients included, among other multi-nat
 RENSHAW-Bache McE. Of Nonquitt, MA, formerly of NY, October 25, 2001. Brother of Jeannette W. Renshaw of Concord, MA, and the late Alfred H. II. Companion of Helen K. Goddard of Nonquitt. Also survived by his first cousins, Paola Marchi Rossoni of Lincoln, MA, Palmer Marchi of Rome, Italy, 
 ROTHKRUG-Paul. In San Francisco on October 23, age 86. Inspiring mentor, noted for his integrity; compassion; unflinching activism for human dignity and environmental survival. Harvard Class of '36; WW II (Battle of the Bulge; Counter - Intelligence Officer); made history again after the wa
 SCHWARBERG-Craig Frederick. March 27, 1956 - October 18, 2001. Craig Frederick Schwarberg passed away October 18, 2001, after a long illness. Craig was born in Pasadena, California, and raised in Whittier and Tiburon, California. He attended Stanford University, was a member of the Varsity 
 SCHWEIKERT-Louis. On October 25, 2001, at age 88. Born in Orange, NJ, Lou spent over 50 years at E.B. Myrowitz in New York City as an obstetrician. His clients included members of the White House, Hollywood celebrities and public officials. Lou's greatest enjoyment was oil painting, travel,
 SHEVLIN-Alexander. Of Atlantic City, NJ, died on October 20, 2001. Formerly of Philadelphia and Honolulu. Son of the late Isador and Celia Shavelenko and husband of the late Jean Korn Shevlin. He is survived by his sister Sally and her husband Abbe, and their two sons David Edward and Ian S
 SOLOMON-Irving, MD on October 25, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Rebecca Aqua. Revered father of June Ivy and learned physician. He will be profoundly missed. Service Monday 12:45pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue.       
 STEWART-Albert B., M.D. Age 93, died after a short illness, in Fort Lauderdale, formerly of New York, NY, on Saturday, October 20. He was a wonderful father, and a good-hearted man, who never said a harsh word about anyone. He was a physician, an anesthesiologist, a ''renaissance man,'' who
 TAYER-Donald. Our most brilliant, kind and gracious cousin. His aunts, uncles and cousins have always thought of his many accomplishments with great pride. Our loving thoughts and prayers are with his family.       
 THOMAS-Francis. Died at home peacefully in his sleep October 23, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Teresa (nee Hanley). Loving father of Francis Bruce and Stephen Penn. Devoted grandfather of Penn Clarke. He was born June 5, 1911 in Wilkes Barre, PA. His career included Executive Vice Presi
 WEISSENSTEIN-Herbert F. Age 56, of New York City and Sharon, CT, died October 26, 2001, of cancer after a short illness. Beloved husband of Constance Shuman, cherished father of Kathryn and Michael, loving son of Ruth Popper, and the late Heinz Weissenstein. Dear brother of Peter, Robert, D
 WILDENSTEIN-Daniel. We, the Directors of The Florence Gould Foundation and our wives express our profound sorrow to the Wildenstein family on the death of our distinguished colleague, Daniel Wildenstein. From the beginning, the activities of the Foundation have always been enriched by the w
 KASPER-Charles L. On the occasion of his 55th birthday, the family of D.C. Charles L. Kasper, F.D.N.Y., would like to thank the many, many wonderful people who so generously helped us through this most difficult time. The tremendous outpouring from all who knew Charlie was a beautiful tribu
 VICTOR-Mac (January 14, 1918October 14, 2000). Retired executive, World War II veteran and Bronze Star recipient. As we observe the anniversary of his death, we reflect on the celebration that was his life. Over his 82 years he perfected joy, love, and laughter. He was a tap dancer and chor
 Dr. Alvan Feinstein, an epidemiologist who advanced the science of disease diagnosis and prognosis and made significant strides in preventing rheumatic fever, died Wednesday in Toronto, where he was attending an awards ceremony. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, according to 
 Dr. George F. Solomon, one of the first scientists to see a link between emotions and immunity and a pioneer in the field now known as psychoneuroimmunology, died on Oct. 7 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 69. The cause was a stroke, his family said. ''Even though doct
 Herbert Weissenstein, a management consultant specializing in the arts, died on Friday in New York. He was 56. The cause was cancer, his wife, Constance Shuman Weissenstein, said. After working for both the New York Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall, Mr. Weissenstein retained p
 ADELSON-Maury. Suddenly on October 27, 2001. Valiant survivor of polio, the Battle of Normandy and post-polio syndrome. Successful restaurateur, dedicated and much loved volunteer to the children at the Ronald McDonald House. Brought joy and laughter to all who knew him, charmed all who met
 ADENBAUM-David. 86, died October 27, 2001, after a gracious struggle with heart disease and leukemia. Beloved husband of the late Betty (nee Sachs). Adored father of Samuel and his wife Gilda Kramer, Ann and her fiance Alan Schramm. Proud grandfather of Jacob and Benjamin Adenbaum. Caring b
 AMMON-Ted. Age 52, on October 22, 2001. Survived by his wife Generosa. Loving father of Alexa and Gregory. Devoted brother of Sandi Williams. Memorial service Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center, Monday, October 29th, 1 P.M. Contributions in his memory may be made to Jazz at Lincoln Center, 
 BISSINGER-Harry Gerard II. On October 25, 2001, age 75. Beloved husband of Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger. Loving father of Ann Bissinger and Harry Gerard Bissinger III. Adoring grandfather of Gerry, Zachary and Caleb Bissinger and Sarah Poor. Dear brother of Eli Kaufman. Friends may call at F
 ELLIOTT-William III. Native and longtime resident of New York died from pneumonia on October 9, 2001, in Tucson, AZ. Born on March 14, 1925, he was secretarytreasurer of Bowne & Company for many years. A graduate of Columbia University, he was a member of the Harvard Class of 1946, the Fly 
 LEVINE-Albert. Of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Rockville Centre, NY. Beloved husband of Ruth, loving father of Joan and Robert, dear brother of Edele Schuman and Milton Levine. He was a good and loyal friend to all. Services at Eternal Light Memorial Gardens, Boynton Beach, FL, 11:15 AM, Mon
 LEWIS-Arthur E., Jr. October 13, 2001. Died in his sleep from cardiac arrest in West Nyack, NY with his fiancee, Laura Buckley, at his side. He was 68. Born in Manhattan on January 4, 1933, he was raised in the South Bronx and attended Morris High School. He later moved to Queens, where he 
 PURDY-Frazier R. 71, longtime creative director of Young & Rubicam Advertising, at his home in Roxbury, CT, on Saturday, October 27, 2001. Before retiring in 1991 he had a 37 year career at Y & R, starting as an assistant art director in 1954. It culminated in his becoming senior vice presi
 REIT-Barnet S. Beloved husband of Lorraine, father of Scott and Glenn, died after a prolonged illness. We grieve his loss.       
 SARGENT-Mary C. Of Bronxville and Quogue, on October 28, 2001. Beloved wife of the late John R. Sargent. Loving mother of Betsy Grogan, John S. Sargent and his wife Lynn, Susan Sargent Goldman and her husband Mitchell, and Michael H. Sargent and his wife Lisa. Sister of the late Walter Edwa
 SOLOMON-Dr. Irving. The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring mourns the passing of Dr. Irving Solomon, member of our medical panel for fifty years, former Medical Director of our Health Center (1966-1990), President of our Medical Board (1985-1989) among other positions. His commitment to our orga
 SPATZ-Dorothy. The members and staff of the Falls Country Club wish to express their sincere condolences to Martin and his family on the passing of Dorothy. Board of Governors Ken Mahler, President       
 TAYER-Don. Friend, labor lawyer, community leader, family man, who through his vitality, enthusiasm, intellect and hearty spirit, shared his love of life with all. We will miss him. Roberta and Willard Block       
 WEISSENSTEIN-Herbert F. Age 56, of New York City and Sharon, CT, died October 26, 2001, of cancer after a short illness. Beloved husband of Constance Shuman, cherished father of Kathryn and Michael, loving son of Ruth Popper, and the late Heinz Weissenstein. Dear brother of Peter, Robert, D
 WILDENSTEIN-Daniel. We, the Directors of The Florence Gould Foundation and our wives express our profound sorrow to the Wildenstein family on the death of our distinguished colleague, Daniel Wildenstein. From the beginning, the activities of the Foundation have always been enriched by the w
 Dr. Vasily P. Mishin, who helped preside over the Soviet Union's failed effort to beat the United States to the Moon, died on Oct. 10 in Moscow. He was 84. The death was reported by the Russian news media. He is survived by his wife, Nina Andreyevna Mishina, and three daughters.    
 Grigory Chukhrai, the Soviet-era filmmaker whose poignant explorations of wartime themes earned not just the Lenin Prize but also top awards at Cannes, Edinburgh and San Francisco, died Sunday at Moscow's Central Clinical Hospital. He was 80. The cause of death was not disclosed. He
 Larry Aldrich, for 40 years a successful fashion designer in New York and the founder in 1964 of the innovative Aldrich Museum for Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Conn., died on Friday at the New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Initially disparaged by so
 BEKER-Sonia. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Harvey Beker upon the loss of his mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 BONIME-Walter, M.D. The American Academy of Psychoanalysis mourns the loss of a Fellow of especially high regard. His esteemed writings remain but his warm comradery and his rich presentations will be sorely missed. He was among us from the beginning, and he helped form the character of the
 COHALAN-Florence D., Rev. Msgr. 93, of New York City. Ordained to the priesthood June 11, 1938. Msgr. Cohalan served the Archdiocese of New York at the Church of St. Peter, Staten Island, NY, as Professor of History at Cathedral College in NYC and as Pastor of the Church of St. Paul, Staten
 FEYER-George, October 21, 2001 in New York City. A devoted husband of the late Judith Hoffmann Feyer (d. 1982) and of Marta Kleyman Feyer. Loving father of Robert P. Feyer and father-in-law of Marsha N. Cohen. Delighted and proud grandfather of Daniel J.C. Feyer, Stephen L.C. Feyer & Jonath
 HABOUSHA-Hayim, 82. On October 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Adele. Loving father of Racheline and Nadine and Edward Cohen. Dear brother of Albert of Paris and Ezra of Tel Aviv. Devoted grandfather of Reuben and Daniel Cohen. Shiva will be observed at his home.       
 LOTUFO-Harry C. Age 80, on October 28, 2001. Mr. Lotufo was a former VP and partner of the Fred Gardner Advertising Agency, NYC. He is survived by his wife, Marge; his children, David G. Lotufo, MD & Mrs. Sarah Ferber; his brother, Donald A. Lotufo; his grandchildren, Christopher and Kiera 
 NAGAMATSU-George R., M.D. Emeritus Professor at New York Medical College, passed away on October 24 of natural causes. He is survived by his wife, Kazuko. A memorial service will be held on Friday, November 16, at 4 PM, at All Souls Church, Lexington Av. & 80 St. In lieu of flowers, donatio
 NEUMAN-Robert Nathan. 82, October 28, 2001. Proud proprietor of the Rosedale Fish Market since 1937, he devoted his life to the pursuit of excellence in his trade. In loving memory of his father Billy he ruled his store with humor, wisdom, dignity and single-minded purpose; Charming, challe
 PARNES-Aaron. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected and cherished member of the Board of Governors of the Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology, where, together with his sister-inlaw, Alice Parnes, he established the Max and Celia Parnes Family Psychologica
 ROBERTS-John. Died on October 27. Beloved husband of Rona. Adored father of Jennifer and Douglas. Brother of William, Keith and Kathy. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. ROBERTS-John. We mourn the untimely death of our beloved brother and brother-in-law, Jock. He 
 SARGENT-Mary C. Of Bronxville and Quogue, on October 28, 2001. Beloved wife of the late John R. Sargent. Loving mother of Betsy Grogan, John S. Sargent and his wife Lynn, Susan Sargent Goldman and her husband Mitchell, and Michael H. Sargent and his wife Lisa. Sister of the late Walter Edwa
 SILLS-Morton, 87. Beloved father of Josh, Rocky and Chris. Cherished husband, brother, uncle, grandfather, friend and mentor. Patron of the Brecht Forum. A true lover of life, he fought to enhance it collectively and for individuals. His passing is a loss to all.       
 WEISSENSTEIN-Herbert F. Age 56, of New York City and Sharon, CT, died October 26, 2001, of cancer after a short illness. Beloved husband of Constance Shuman, cherished father of Kathryn and Michael, loving son of Ruth Popper, and the late Heinz Weissenstein. Dear brother of Peter, Robert, D
 Laszlo Halasz, the first music director of the New York City Opera, died on Friday at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 96. During a tumultuous eight-year tenure, which began in 1943, Mr. Halasz established several crucial elements of the New York City Opera's artistic person
 BLOCK-Dr. Burton L. Of Hackensack on October 29. Beloved husband of Nita. Devoted father of Beth & the late Harry L. Cherished grandfather of Alison. Services will be held at ''Gutterman-Musicant,'' Hackensack, NJ, Wednesday, October 31 at 1 PM. BLOCK-Dr. Burton L. The Board of Gove
 BOTTOMLEY-Robert R. A resident of Florida and Maine, died October 27 in Portsmouth, NH, of heart disease. He was a resident of New York City for 38 years and was an English teacher at Mineola High School for twenty-seven years. Survivors include a sister in Fishkill & a longtime companion. 
 BOVERS-Christopher Nugent, cofounder of Force Five Watersports and The Haul-Over outdoor stores in Nantucket, Massachusetts died suddenly on Sunday, October 28, 2001. He was 44 years old. He is survived by his wife Francie Ziminsky Bovers of Nantucket, Massachusetts; his sisters Kathleen Bo
 COHALAN-Florence D., Rev. Msgr. 93, of New York City. Ordained to the priesthood June 11, 1938. Msgr. Cohalan served the Archdiocese of New York at the Church of St. Peter, Staten Island, NY, as Professor of History at Cathedral College in NYC and as Pastor of the Church of St. Paul, Staten
 CROSS-Joseph G., 88. Of Hobe Sound, FL passed away Saturday, October 27, 2001 at Martin Memorial Hospital South, Stuart, FL. Born in Brooklyn, New York he had been a resident of Hobe Sound for the past 22 years. He moved to the area from Long Island, Woodbury, New York. Prior to retirement 
 EMMET-Winthrop S., 91. October 26, 2001 in West Stockbridge, MA. He was a graduate of Groton, Harvard College (1934), and Harvard Law School. He was a World War II Navy officer awarded the French Croix de Guerre and helped try Nazi war criminals at Nuremberg in 1945. He was later a New York
 HALASZ-Laszlo. New York City Opera mourns the pasing of Laszlo Halasz, the first artistic and musical director of our company. The enthusiastic vision, shared by Mr. Halasz and Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, of a company with young singers and performances at affordable prices has continued unab
 JOKL-John. On October 30, 2001. Beloved husband and best friend of Joan, devoted father to Jared, caring brother to Lilian and uncle to Lauren and Jason. His keen intelligence, kind heart & generous nature will be remembered by all those whose lives he touched. Services Thursday 12 noon ''S
 MONAHAN-John Joseph Jr., 71. Of Hamilton, New Jersey passed away October 26 at home. Born in Brooklyn, New York he resided in New Jersey for most of his life. He retired from the New York Times as a member of the pressmen's union. He was a veteran of the Korean War, serving in the U.S. Mari
 NEUMAN-Robert Nathan. 82, October 28, 2001. Proud proprietor of the Rosedale Fish Market since 1937, he devoted his life to the pursuit of excellence in his trade. In loving memory of his father Billy he ruled his store with humor, wisdom, dignity and single-minded purpose; Charming, challe
 PEARL-Nat. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Nat Pearl, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife Beatrice and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary       
 PREM-Frank Herbert III (Terry). Age 37, of Housatonic, MA, died on October 24, 2001 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. He is survived by his father, F. Herbert Prem Jr., and his stepmother, Patricia Ryan Prem of New York, NY; his mother, Barbara Herrick and stepfather, Scott H
 SALTMAN-Elias Bernard, 89. On October 29, 2001. A true intellectual with an intense concern for fairness and equality for all. For Eli, food, knowledge & classical music were the keys to life. Beloved husband of Alice (nee Mintz) for 66 years. Father of David (Pemmy), Melissa Meyer (Brad) a
 SPRINGER-John. We deeply mourn the loss of our very dear friend and fellow Player. His contributions to our club were monumental. His very presence made every visit an event. He is irreplaceable. Our love and prayers to June and their family. We'll never forget you, man! The Players       
 TAYER-Donald S. The American Jewish Committee mourns the death of our dear friend Don Tayer. Don served AJC with distinction as president of our San Francisco Bay Area chapter and, as a longstanding member of our national Board of Governors. In 1987 we honored him with our Distinguished Ser
 WEISSENSTEIN-Herbert F. The Center for Arts Education mourns the passing of Herbert Weissenstein. Through his counsel and belief in our mission, Herb transformed the Center from an ambitious concept to an organization that has helped restore arts education to thousands of New York City publ
 KORN-Jack. June 18, 1910-October 31, 1994. Forever remembered and loved by his family.       
