 Jim Turner, the pitching coach for nine Yankee pennant-winning teams in the Casey Stengel era and a pitcher for the Braves, Reds and Yankees in a baseball career spanning 51 consecutive seasons, died Sunday in his hometown of Nashville. He was 95 and the oldest former Yankee. In the
 Quentin Crewe, who fell down so much as a child and bounced back with such good cheer that he grew up to challenge prevailing stereotypes as an iconoclastic journalist, an innovative restaurant critic, a high-spirited social lion, a high-minded gossip columnist, a globe-trotting adventurer,
 Stanley Brandon Kearl, a sculptor, died on Nov. 21 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 84. Mr. Kearl's small bronze figurative sculptures, which he described as ''metaphysical realism,'' drew on archaic and classical Greek art, European Surrealism and biblical references to create
 Johnny Roventini, the little Brooklyn-born bellhop with the big bell-clear voice whose ''Call for Phil-lip Mor-ris,'' delighted radio audiences in the 1930's and 40's and made the cigarette into a household name, died on Monday at a hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 86 and had been under lif
 William F. Baxter, who as head of the antitrust division of the Justice Department under President Ronald Reagan brought the sharp edge of economic analysis to bear on enforcement decisions, died on Friday at his home in Los Altos, Calif. He was 69. The cause was complications from 
 Albert Frey, an early ambassador to America of the International Style of architecture who later brought its themes to buildings in harmony with the American desert, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif., his executor, F. Gillar Boyd Jr., said. He was 95 years old.    
 Theodore Strongin, a music critic for The New York Times in the 1960's, died on Nov. 24 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 79 and lived in Englewood, Fla. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Debby Randolph. Mr. Strongin began writing about music for Th
 Bob Haggart, a bassist and arranger who performed with an extraordinary variety of jazz groups during his nearly 70-year career, died yesterday in a hospital in Venice, Fla., after collapsing on his way to the post office. He was 84 and lived in Venice. Mr. Haggart's long and varied
 Joseph F. Unanue, a senior executive in the Goya food business, died on Saturday at the Swedish Hospital and Medical Center in Seattle. He was 41 and lived in San Juan, P.R., and Manhattan. The cause was complications from a bone-marrow transplant, according to a hospital spokeswoma
 Roy P. Benavidez, a former Green Beret sergeant who received the Medal of Honor from President Ronald Reagan for heroism while wounded in the Vietnam War, then fought to keep the Government from cutting off his disability payments, died on Sunday at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio
 Arthur Henry Green, a psychiatrist noted for his expertise in working with abused children, died on Nov. 25 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was melanoma, his family said. In two decades on the Columbia University faculty, Dr. Green estab
 Freddie Young, one of the world's most respected cinematographers, whose work included an elaborate series of dissolves for the montage that opens Alfred Hitchcock's ''Blackmail,'' Britain's first talkie, and the famous three-minute shot in David Lean's ''Lawrence of Arabia'' in which Omar 
 Gordon S. Ringer, a Los Angeles County Superior Court judge who tried to force President Richard M. Nixon to testify in his court in 1974 about a case linked to the Watergate affair, died on Nov. 20 at his home in Long Beach, Calif. He was 69. The cause was emphysema, The Associated
 Former Senator Albert Gore Sr., the father of the Vice President and a longtime powerful figure in the Democratic Party, died yesterday at his home in Carthage, Tenn., three weeks before his 91st birthday, the White House said. Vice President Gore and his wife, Tipper, were with Mr.
 Cleopa, an Orthodox monk who once fled Communist pressure by becoming a solitary anchorite in Romania's forests, died this week in the remote monastery where his down-to-earth teachings came to attract large and steady streams of pilgrims. He was 87. Romanian Orthodox officials in B
 Rolando Alphonso, the tenor saxophonist for the Skatalites and a major figure in Jamaican music, died on Nov. 20 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 67 and lived in New York City. The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said his daughter Michele Alphonso. He had burst a 
 Vladimir Dokoudovsky, a founding member of Ballet Theater, a principal dancer with the Ballets Russes troupes of the 1930's and 40's and an influential teacher in New York, died on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart 
 Abraham Feinberg, a businessman, philanthropist and supporter of Israel, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Feinberg rose from modest beginnings to become chairman of a New York-based appare
 Former Senator Albert Gore Sr., the father of the Vice President and a longtime powerful figure in the Democratic Party, died on Saturday at his home in Carthage, Tenn., three weeks before his 91st birthday, the White House said. Vice President Gore and his wife, Tipper, were with M
 Dr. George D. Crothers, the producer of the long-running CBS television religious program ''Lamp Unto My Feet,'' died on Nov. 27 in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 89. Dr. Crothers was born in Fort Morgan, Colo., and lived in Sarasota for 22 years. He graduated from Wooster C
 George Van Eps, a guitarist who played with some of the biggest names in jazz and pioneered the seven-string guitar, died on Nov. 29 at Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Huntington Beach, Calif. His family said the cause was pneumoni
 John Chadwick, a self-effacing linguist who played a critical role in deciphering the ancient Greek writings known as Linear B, then spent the rest of his life deflecting credit to his collaborator, died in England on Nov. 24. Mr. Chadwick was 78 and a longtime resident of Cambridge
 Julius Larkin Hoyt, a lawyer and official of the United States Tennis Association, died on Nov. 23 at his farm in Wallkill, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was lung cancer. Mr. Hoyt served as president of the Eastern Tennis Association during the 1960's, a time when ''Lawn'' was d
 Miguel Angel Garcia Mendez, a former legislator in Puerto Rico and lifelong champion of statehood for the island commonwealth, died in a hospital in Mayaguez, P.R., on Nov. 17, his 96th birthday. Mr. Garcia Mendez, a former Speaker of the Puerto Rican House of Representatives, helpe
 Thomas W. Gomez, a teacher of the Katherine Dunham technique and a leading dancer with Ms. Dunham's company in the 1940's, died on Oct. 29 at the Warren Barr Pavilion, a home for the aged, in Chicago. He was 77 and lived in Chicago. The cause was bone cancer, his son, Thomas Gomez 3
 Cesar, a prominent French artist who created large sculptures formed by crushed cars and scrap iron, died on Sunday in Paris. He was 77. Friends said the cause was cancer. Cesar -- he was born Cesar Baldaccini but used only his first name -- was France's best-known sculptor 
 Clayton (Peg Leg) Bates, a one-legged tap dancer who became a star, died on Sunday in Fountain Inn, S.C., where he was born. He was 91. Mr. Bates was being honored by  Fountain Inn and had danced there on Saturday in an event to raise money for a life-size sculpture of himself to be
 Michael Zaslow, an Emmy Award-winning actor who played a victim of Lou Gehrig's disease on the soap opera ''One Life to Live'' and who struggled with the illness in real life, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack,  Brynn Thayer, who played
 Archie Moore, the fighter whose legendary career spanned almost three decades and who won the light-heavyweight championship when he was well into his 30's, died yesterday at a hospice in San Diego. His age, always the subject of speculation, which he helped fuel, was 84. Moore had 
 Lamond Godwin, the chairman and chief executive of Peachtree Asset Management, a division of Salomon Smith Barney, died on Nov. 15 at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. Mr. Godwin, a resident of Atlanta, was 56. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his son, Lamond Charles 
 Dr. Martin Rodbell, a biochemist who shared the 1994 Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology for shedding light on the mysteries of life's basic processes, died on Monday at the University of North Carolina Hospitals in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 73 and lived in Chapel Hill. The cause 
 Merle E. Gilliand, retired chairman and chief executive of the PNC Bank Corporation, who presided over several mergers of the bank holding company over 30 years, died on Tuesday at the UPMC St. Margaret Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 76. Mr. Gilliand, a resident of Fox Chapel, Pa., 
 Robert Marasco, a playwright and novelist who wrote the long-running Broadway thriller ''Child's Play,'' died on Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 62 and lived in High Falls, N.Y. He died of lung cancer, said his sister, Carole Melillo. ''Ch
 Tony Tanner, a versatile and prolific literary critic and professor whose love for American literature inspired the first courses on the subject at Cambridge University, died on Saturday. He was 63. The cause was cancer, the university said. In 1960, when the young Mr. Tanne
 William F. Noonan, who helped build Burson-Marsteller into a global leader in public relations, died Nov. 2 at his home in Franklin Township, N.J. He was 66 and suffered from leukemia. Mr. Noonan served 32 years at Burson-Marsteller, including eight as president and vice chairman. U
 A. Stephens Hutchcraft Jr., a senior executive of the Kaiser Aluminum Corporation, died on Nov. 25 at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 68 and lived in Danville, Calif. The company said he was being treated for cancer. Mr. Hutchcraft joined 
 D. Tennant Bryan, the former chairman and founder of Media General Inc., the Richmond-based newspaper, television and communications company, died Wednesday at his home in Richmond. He was 92. Mr. Bryan began his career in 1928 as a reporter for The Richmond News Leader, the family-
 John Addison, an English composer whose score for the 1963 film ''Tom Jones'' won an Oscar and whose theme music for ''Murder She Wrote'' won an Emmy, died on Monday at a hospital in Bennington, Vt. He was 78 and lived in Bennington. The cause of death was a stroke, said James Golds
 Kenneth C. Brugger, a self-effacing amateur naturalist who made an unforgettable discovery, died on Nov. 25 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 80. If the Purepecha Indians of central Mexico had been a shade less sophisticated, they might have regarded him as a god, and not because t
 Sir Otto Frankel, a plant geneticist who was among the first to warn of the threat to whole species, died on Nov. 21 in Canberra, Australia. He was 98. In the 1960's Dr. Frankel and a small band of scientists sounded the alarm over the loss of species in agriculture, pointing to far
 Enrique Martinez, a ballet dancer and rehearsal director at American Ballet Theater who staged the classics for ballet troupes in North and South America and in Europe, died on Nov. 17 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 72 and had lived in Manhattan. The ca
 Gov. Lawton Chiles, a homespun centrist politician from the middle of Florida who served three terms as a Democratic Senator and was elected to two terms as governor, died yesterday at the Governor's Mansion in Tallahassee. He was 68. Mr. Chiles apparently suffered a heart attack du
 Louis A. Delgado Jr., a playwright who wove his experiences with drug addiction and his life on the street into his work, died on Dec. 1 at Wyckoff Heights Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 55 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was diabetes-related liver failure, said Ed Vega, presid
 Jack Farris, a novelist, playwright and retired professor of English, died on Nov. 26 at a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 77 and had recently moved to Rockville, Md., from Lockesburg, Ark. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Anna. Throughout his teaching caree
 Yosef Y. Kazen, a Hasidic rabbi who pioneered the use of the Internet as a powerful recruiting and educational tool for the Lubavitch movement, died Dec. 1 at New York Hospital. He was 44 and lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The cause was complications of non-Hodgkins lymphoma, sai
 Charles E. Rose, who prosecuted bank robbers, narcotics traffickers,  terrorists and organized-crime figures in 15 years with the United States Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 51. The ca
 Gov. Lawton Chiles, a homespun centrist politician from the middle of Florida who served three terms as a Democratic Senator and was elected to two terms as governor, died on Saturday at the Governor's Mansion in Tallahassee. He was 68. Mr. Chiles died from an abnormal heart rhythm,
 Lew Grade, an immigrant boy from the slums of London's East End who rose to become Britain's biggest impresario of popular entertainment, died here today at the age of 91. Founder of Britain's first commercially financed television company, Lord Grade, who was knighted in 1963 and g
 Morris K. Udall of Arizona, a liberal conscience of the House of Representatives for 30 years and a tireless advocate for environmental protection and political reform, died late Saturday in Washington. He was 76. According to Terrence L. Bracy, the chairman of the Morris K. Udall F
 A. Leon Higginbotham Jr., who called himself ''a survivor of segregation'' and became one of the country's most prominent African-American judges, died yesterday in Boston. He was 70 and died after a stroke for which he had been hospitalized on Saturday. Judge Higginbotham, a legal 
 Harold A. Shaub, a retired chief executive of the Campbell Soup Company who was active in community affairs, died Nov. 29 at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 83 and had lived in Gladwyne, Pa. on the Philadelphia Main Line for 25 years. Mr. Shaub was president and chief ex
 William Gaddis, author of ''The Recognitions'' and ''JR,'' and a novelist of immense range, complexity and satiric humor, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 75. The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Sarah Meares Gaddis. Mr. Gaddis was one of 
 Carlos Abraham Foster, a real-life urban cowboy who toured the rodeo circuit around New York and started a program to teach city children about riding as a way to counter the dangers of drugs and AIDS, died on Saturday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 76 and had let it be known in Augu
 Gen. Hamilton H. Howze, who began his military career in the horse cavalry, served in tanks during World War II and then helped change how the Army fights by developing helicopter-warfare tactics used in the Vietnam War and beyond, died on Dec. 8 in Fort Worth. He was 89. General Ho
 Dave Williams, who coached the University of Houston golf team to 16 National Collegiate Athletic Association championships and sent a host of players to the Professional Golfers Association Tour, died Wednesday in Wharton, Tex. He was 80 and had been ill for several years, the university's
 Howard Wolfe Chalk, an advertising executive, died on Dec. 12 at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. Mr. Chalk, a resident of Cortlandt Manor, N.Y., was 76. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter, Robin Chalk Levy, said. Mr. Chalk's clients were mostly fa
 Leonard Moos Rieser, a physicist who helped usher in the nuclear age with the Manhattan Project and crusaded to curb the arsenals it spawned, died on Tuesday at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 76 and lived in Norwich, Vt. The cause was cancer, said off
 Robert C. Johnston, who spent almost half a century shaping Manhattan's skyline from below street level and its map from below the water line, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Milbrook, N.Y. He was 85 and had been the foundation engineer in charge of building the 92-acre landfill addition to M
 William Box Cook, associate director of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, died on Tuesday at his home in Chicago. He was 48. He had a heart attack in the lobby of his apartment building, a spokeswoman at the museum said. Mr. Cook joined the museum in September after
 Clay Blair, an author who wrote extensively on World War II and the Korean War and was a former editor of The Saturday Evening Post, died on Wednesday at his home on Washington Island, Wis. He was 73. He suffered a heart attack, said his agent, Russell Galen. In World War II
 Harry W. Treleaven Jr., an advertising executive and early political consultant who is credited with creating the ''Nixon's the One!'' slogan for the 1968 Presidential campaign, died Dec. 9 at the Sarah Neuman Nursing Home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Amagansett,
 Antonio Ordonez, a leading bullfighter in the 1950's and the last survivor of the dueling matadors chronicled by  Hemingway in ''The Dangerous Summer,'' died on Saturday in a Seville hospital. He was 66. The cause was cancer, the Spanish news media reported. Mr. Ordonez, who
 Enrique Martinez, a ballet dancer and rehearsal director at American Ballet Theater who staged the classics for ballet troupes in North and South America and Europe, died on Nov. 17 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was
 Louis K. Sher, a movie exhibitor who pioneered the showing of foreign films, died on Nov. 25 in Phoenix, Ariz. He was 84. Mr. Sher opened his first movie theater in 1954 in Columbus, Ohio, and made foreign films his specialty. He eventually built a national chain called the Art Thea
 Mel Fisher, a former chicken farmer who became a Horatio Alger figure among undersea treasure hunters, died on Saturday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 76. The cause was complications from cancer, the Mel Fisher museum in Key West announced. Mr. Fisher found hundreds of
 Paul Gitlin, a lawyer and literary agent who brokered multimillion-dollar deals for authors in the early 1970's, died on Wednesday. He was 83. Mr. Gitlin came to prominence by negotiating innovative deals in the 1960's and early 1970's, when literary auctions were a relatively new p
 Andre de Wavrin, the ''Colonel Passy'' who forged a Resistance intelligence network for de Gaulle during World War II, died at his home in Paris on Sunday, friends said. He was 87. Born in Paris in 1911 and a graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique, the leading French engineering school
 Sir Alan Lloyd Hodgkin, an English biophysicist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine  in 1963 for helping to explain how nerve cells transmit impulses between the the skin to the brain, died Sunday at the age of 84. London newspaper reports, quoting his family, said 
 Allan D'Arcangelo, a painter known for pared-down images of highways and road signs that neatly split the difference between Pop Art and Minimalism, died on Dec. 17 at Beth Israel North in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived on an 80-acre farm in the Catskills, near Kenoza Lake, N.Y. The
 Bangalore Venkata Raman, one of India's most respected astrologers, died on Sunday, suffering a heart attack as he edited The Astrological Magazine, the monthly publication he founded 62 years ago. He was 86. In India, where a widespread belief in Vedic astrolology dictates the timi
 David S. Jackson, a member of the American Stock Exchange for 73 years and an exchange governor from 1965 to 1968, died Sunday, a son-in-law, Andrew Segal, said. Mr. Jackson was 96 years old. Mr. Jackson, who was born in Manhattan, joined the exchange in 1925, working as a specialis
 J. Harold Flannery Jr., an Associate Justice of the Massachusetts Appeals Court since 1995 who was a civil rights lawyer in the South and in Boston in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Weston, Mass. The cause wa
 Paul H. Smucker, the former chairman of the jelly company in Orrville, Ohio, that bears his family's name, died last Thursday at his home in Orrville. He was 81. Mr. Smucker is credited with helping transform the J. M. Smucker Company from a small, regional jam and jelly manufacture
 Anatoly Rybakov, whose long-suppressed novel about the Stalinist era, ''Children of the Arbat,'' finally appeared in 1987 to affirm the reality of glasnost, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 and also had a home in Moscow. His wife, Tatyana Rybakova, said that he die
 The Rev. Lord Soper, a Methodist minister and Labor peer who was the most famous and longest-running soapbox orator at Speakers' Corner in Hyde Park, died on Tuesday in London. He was 95. A strikingly handsome silver-haired man dressed in a black cassock and white collar, he was alw
 Joseph Esherick, a self-effacing architect who won acclaim for his people-friendly designs and turned an old canning factory in San Francisco into a renowned shopping complex, died on Dec. 17 at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 83 and lived in San Francisco. His firm, Esherick, H
 Jan Meyerowitz, a prolific composer whose varied catalogue includes eight operas and many chamber, symphonic and choral works, died in Colmar, France, on Dec. 15. He was 85. Mr. Meyerowitz's music, which is lyrical and dramatic, often combines a Neo-Classical sense of structure with
 Mike McAlary, whose bulletproof swagger and unyielding reporting about the New York Police Department made him the city's dominant tabloid reporter of the last decade, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 41 and, earlier this year, was awarded the Pulitzer Prize fo
 Pierre Vallieres, a writer and political advocate whose raw, emotional manifesto on injustice and violence became the intellectual foundation of the early Quebec separatist movement, died on Tuesday in Montreal. He was 60. Mr. Vallieres never fully recovered from a heart attack last
 Maj. Gen. Charles D. Mize, a combat veteran of three wars who won the Navy Cross with the First Marine Division in the Korean War and who was its commander a quarter-century later, died on Dec. 10 at Inova Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. General Mize was 77 and lived in Falls Church,
 E. W. (Skip) Etchells, a boat builder and world champion yachtsman, died last Sunday in Memorial Hospital in Easton, Md. He was 87. Most yacht racing is done in one-design sailboats, all built to a specific design so that the outcome rests with the skill of the crew rather than the 
 Dr. Odo J. Struger, who invented the programmable logic controller, which makes possible modern factory automation, amusement park rides and lavish stage effects in Broadway productions, died on Dec. 8 in Cleveland. He was 67. He had thyroid cancer, family members said. The 
 Edwin Evariste Moise, Distinguished Professor of Mathematics emeritus at Queens College and an author of textbooks, who helped decipher German and Japanese military signals in World War II, died Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was compli
 Merwin F. Kaminstein, a former retail executive, died on Dec. 21 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Mr. Kaminstein, a resident of Boston and Bonita Springs, Fla., was 63. The cause was cancer, said his niece, Gail Cohen. Mr. Kaminstein headed several department sto
 Syl Apps, the Hall of Fame center of the Toronto Maple Leafs when they dominated the National Hockey League in the 1940's and one of Canada's finest all-round athletes of his era, died Thursday at his home in Kingston, Ontario. He was 83. In his 10 years in the N.H.L., Apps had 201 
 Hurd Hatfield, the handsome actor forever identified with the title role in the 1945 movie version of Oscar Wilde's novel ''The Picture of Dorian Gray,'' died on Friday at a friend's home in Monktown, Ireland. Since the 1970's, he had been living in Rothcormack, Ireland. He was 80. 
 William R. Perl, who as a young  lawyer in Vienna organized a waterborne rescue operation that carried thousands of Jews from Nazi-occupied Europe to Palestine, died last Thursday at his home in Beltsville, Md., near Washington. He was 92. Years after his operation, which he called 
 Hans Oeschger, a Swiss geologist who sounded early warnings about the risk that emissions of industrial waste gases might bring on climate change, died on Friday, after a long illness, according to press reports from Bern. He was 71. He spent nearly 40 years in the Department of Phy
 Prof. Harmer E. Davis, the founding director of the California Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California at Berkeley,  died on Dec. 24 at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 93. Professor Davis spent 45 years on the Berkeley campus. He was born in Roche
 Dr. Raemer E. Schreiber, an experimental physicist who helped develop the atom bomb and the hydrogen bomb, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 88. Dr. Schreiber, who was born in Oregon, received his doctorate from Purdue University in 1941, not long after the disc
