 Andre De Toth, a Hungarian-born movie and television director whose loss of an eye as a youth robbed him of depth perception yet didn't prevent him from making the most highly regarded of all 3-D films, died on Sunday at his home in Burbank, Calif. The cause was an aneurysm, friends
 ABEL-Dr. Robert R. Age 71 of Elizabeth, NJ died Thursday, October 31 after a courageous battle with leukemia. He was the loving and beloved husband of Helen (Carter) Abel. Devoted father of Carter (Denise) Abel of Mendham, NJ, Alice Boushie of Mendham, NJ and Kathryn Abel (Todd Lewis) of Ho
 BARROW-Lionel C. Sr. 97. Former NYC public school teacher and NAACP activist, died on October 25, 2002 in Columbia, MD. He was the president of the NYC branch of the NAACP for five years. He was also a member of the Free and Accepted Masons. A viewing will be held at the Benta's Funeral Hom
 BLOCK-Rabbi Irving J. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns with profound sadness the passing of its esteemed founding rabbi and guiding light. He was a model of compassion, leader in the Jewish community, a passionate Zionist, a pioneer in interfaith work and champion of Jews everywhere. We rem
 HARE-Richard V. The New York Exchange for Woman's Work notes with sorrow the death of Richard V. Hare, a friend and supporter and, for many years, a member of the Advisory Committee for the Exchange. We send our condolences to his family. Joe Van Dorn, President The Board of Managers       
 MARIANO-Robert J. In Los Angeles, October 28th, 2002. Beloved son of Guy & Mary, cherished brother of Patti and JoAnn. From the Broadway Stage as a child to the cutting edge of the communications revolution, Bob was a visionary who was always ahead of the curve. His genius, insight and shee
 PATTEN-Jim. The Blue Hill Troupe is deeply saddened by the death of one of our devoted members. Jim joined the Troupe immediately upon his arrival in New York in 1990 and quickly became a stalwart member of our props and set production teams. Recently, Jim's booming laugh and benevolent ene
 RAPHAEL-Arnold M., 82. Of Boynton Beach, FL, and a 75 mile radius of New York City. Died suddenly on October 30, 2002. Loving father of Steven, Nancy and Richard, and father-in-law of Melissa and Steve Friedman and Patricia. Devoted grandfather of Amanda, Emily, Rebecca, Stephanie, David, C
 RIBBONS-Douglas W., Ph.D. Loving father and professor of Biochemistry and Microbiology. Passed away October 7, 2002 in Miami, FL. His achievements include nominations for Nobel Prize in Chemistry and over 150 publications in leading scientific journals. His children, Jeanette Johnson, Gary 
 SCHEFF-William. Devoted and beloved husband of Mollie, father of Philip and Eileen, grandfather of Scott, Stefanie, Eric and Laura, brother of Ruth and Sam, died at home in Laguna Woods, CA. on October 30, 2002. He was a W.W. II veteran, retired NYC high school teacher, Mason Past Master, S
 WALLACE-Dr. Irving S., 87. Middletown, NJ, Optometrist from 1956 to 2000, died October 31, 2002 at the Central NJ Jewish Home for the Aged in Somerset. He had Alzheimer's Disease. Dr. Wallace and his wife, Florence, were members of the Middletown Township Safety Council for 35 years until s
 Raymond Savignac, the celebrated French poster artist who combined pure images in cheery colors with engaging humor to advertise products ranging from cars to aspirin to shampoo, died on Monday at his home in Trouville-sur-Mer, France. He was 94. Mr. Savignanc defined poster art as 
 BLOCK-Rabbi Irving. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc. (NYANA) note with sadness the passing of Rabbi Irving Block, a member of the NYANA Board of Directors from 1984-1995. Rabbi Block embodied the highest value of Jewish tradition as a cham
 HERFORT-Stephen Arthur, 51. Died November 1, 2002 Newark, NJ. Beloved son of Judith Handler Pearce and the late Dr. Robert A. Herfort. Stepson of Eli Pearce, the late Myron Ruby and Jane Herfort. Adored and loving brother of John Herfort and the late David Herfort, Michael Ruby, Elizabeth L
 MANN-Bernard. To know Bernie was a special gift and one that we will cherish for the rest of our lives. Bernie was a man who never said no and his favorite expression was ''Do you need anything''. All we ever needed from Bernie was his love, happy face and friendship which will never be dup
 MORTOLA-Edward. Franklin College Switzerland wishes to express its deep sadness and sorrow over the loss of Dr. Edward Mortola. As a member of the Franklin College Board of Trustees for many years, Dr. Mortola's wise guidance, leadership and unique approach to higher education helped lead u
 MURPHY-Timothy. Retired paper handler, New York ''Times'', on October 31, 2002, 67 years. Native of Rockchapel County Cork, Ireland. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Murphy. Devoted father of Timothy and Coleen. Loving grandfather of Danny, Brian, Daniel, and Nicole. Dear brother of Maurice
 RAPHAEL-Arnold M. An American original. A dear, cherished & generous friend who will be sorely missed by us all. Our sincere sympathy to his entire family. Mort Gordon, Jennifer, Heather and Adam       
 Raf Vallone, a journalist turned actor who began playing earnest, he-man roles in Italy's neo-realist films in the 1940's and continued to act onscreen and onstage for more than 50 years, died on Thursday in Rome. He was 86. With rough good looks often compared to Burt Lancaster's, 
 Richard F. Bernstein, whose colorful portraits of celebrities appeared on the cover of Andy Warhol's Interview magazine and helped set its glamorous tone, died on Oct. 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was complications of AIDS, said Lester Glassner, a friend.       
 Wallace C. Dayton, a businessman, conservationist and environmental philanthropist, died on Sunday at his Wayzata, Minn., home. He was 81. In 1950 Mr. Dayton and his four brothers inherited the family's department store in Minneapolis, and they added others. In the late 1960's, Mr. 
 BENFORADO - Joseph M. Peacefully, October 30, in Madison, WI. Professor Emeritus of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Born June 20, 1921 in NY. Graduate of City College, Columbia University and Syracuse University Medical School. Married Sally Bowen August 2, 1948 in Syracuse, NY.
 BERLINER-Jerome M. A patent attorney, passed away on Tuesday in Long Island from complications of lymphoma. He was 75. After serving in the Navy during WWII he received a degree in electrical engineering from Cornell University. He received his law degree and L.L.M. from Brooklyn Law School
 BLOCK - Rabbi Irving J. Founder and Rabbi Emeritus of The Brotherhood Synagogue, passed away on October 31, 2002. He served in the US Army in World War II and fought with the Haganah in Israel's War of Independence. A year after his ordination in 1953 he founded The Brotherhood Synagogue, a
 CHYET-Stanley F. The President, Chancellor, Board of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, record with profound sorrow the death of Rabbi Stanley F. Chyet, beloved professor emeritus of American Jewish History on 
 COHEN-Stephen H. Of Kings Point. Died on October 31, 2002 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Sallee. Adored father of Faran and Jayme. Cherished brother of Robert and brother-in-law of Sherry Cohen and Ed Frohman. Devoted uncle of Scott, Dara, Alyssa and Kara. You wil
 DAYTON-Wallace C. Conservationist and leader of local and national organizations devoted to improving and saving the environment. He died peacefully at his home in Wayzata, MN, on October 27, survived by his wife of 54 years, Mary Lee Lowe Dayton. With his four brothers, he inherited Dayton
 De LEONARDIS-Lawrence, M.D. The Board of Directors of Physicians Home note with sorrow the death of Lawrence De Leonardis on October 31, 2002. He was a Board member and was dedicated to improving the lives of disadvantaged physicians throughout New York State. Physicians Home benefited grea
 DEVENISH-Thomas. On October 31, 2002. Mr. Devenish was a well-known Manhattan antiques dealer, founder and proprietor of Devenish and Company. He was known for his discerning eye for fine quality 18th century English furniture. He was notorious for his ''tell it like it is'' demeanor. He wi
 ENGLISH-Harry G. The Trustees and Dean are joined by the entire New York Law School community in mourning the loss of Harry English, Class of 1951, accomplished attorney and generous supporter. Our condolences and sympathies to his wife, Eileen and his extended family and many friends. Arth
 GOLDBERG-George S. On November 1. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Cherished father of Gary Goldberg and Deedee Friedman. Adored grandfather of Michael and David Friedman. Dear brother of Jimmy Goldberg. Human rights advocate. He marched under many banners during his lifetime. He will be m
 HERFORT-Stephen Arthur, 51. Died November 1, 2002 Newark, NJ. Beloved son of Judith Handler Pearce and the late Dr. Robert A. Herfort. Stepson of Eli Pearce, the late Myron Ruby and Jane Herfort. Adored and loving brother of John Herfort and the late David Herfort, Michael Ruby, Elizabeth L
 HOLBY-Warren. 87. Westchester developer, Builders Institute President and transAtlantic sailor, on October 30, 2002. The 50 year partnership of Merritt & Holby developed communities all over Westchester, building over 1,000 homes in the 1950's, as well as Harrison Executive Park and Rye Rid
 JACOBS-Robert. On November 1, 2002. Beloved husband of Betty and the late Miriam, father of Susan and Frederick, grandfather of Johanna and Molly, brother of Evelyn Gould and Ruth Rosenthal and the late Jean Winegar, father-in-law of Russell Neufeld, loved by Betty's children and grandchild
 KASE-Sara. It is with the deepest sympathy that we note the loss of Sara Kase, the beloved wife of Dr. Harold Kase and the First Lady of the Our Cooperative. Sara was a true friend, neighbor and a warm, kind lady, who will be sorely missed. Our sincerest sympathy to Harold and his family. P
 MANN-Bernard. Of Fort Lee on October 31st. Beloved husband of Rosalind. Devoted father of David and Peggy Mann, Carol and Marc Rosenblatt and Howard and Marcie Mann. Dear brother of Gert Smiley and Newton Mann. Loving grandfather of Jesse, Eric, Noah, Sari, Barbara, Allison, Doree, Samantha
 MYERS-Edward Max. Aged 76, passed away October 30, 2002, in Miami, FL, after a long illness. Born in New York City December 19, 1925, he was a graduate of the Horace Mann School and the University of Virginia. He had a very successful career with BloomCraft, Inc., where he was a top salesma
 PATTARINI-Caesar B. ''Pat,'' Garden City, NY, born October 31, 1922, died October 23, 2002. His distinguished career with the Port Authority of NY/NJ began as Junior Engineer in 1947, advanced through Chief Aviation Planning; first General Manager of NY International Airport (renamed Kenned
 RAZE-David. Died November 1st at age 91. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. Survived by one daughter, three grandchildren, four great-grandchildren and his sister.       
 SCHOENBERG-Mel. Members of Pictorial Photographers of America mourn with sorrow the passing of our treasurer and beloved longtime member. He was an avid photographer who gave enthusiastic support and friendship to all in the club. One of of his prize winning pictures will be shown at the Ha
 TREIBER-William F. Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Inc. mourns the passing of William F. Treiber, a former Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr. Treiber was a Board member for many years and after his retirement continued on the Council. While Chairman in the 1960's, Mr. Treibe
 WINSTON-Dr. Lee. A resident of Pelham Manor, NY, for over 30 years, died on November 1, 2002. He was 75. Dr. Winston was born in Syracuse, NY, on February 14, 1927. He served in the U.S. Navy in 1945. He graduated from Syracuse University in 1949 and SUNY-Upstate Medical School in 1952. He 
 Paul Leonard, an interior decorator and decorative painter whose graphically patterned, subtly tinted floors were trod on by jet-set aesthetes from Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis to Ralph Lauren, died on Oct. 15 in New Milford, Conn. He was 70. The cause was renal cancer, his wife, Vale
 BILLHARDT - Kenneth P. Passed away on November 1, 2002. President of Philip Billhardt, Inc. Importer of natural rubber. He was a past master of the Floral Park Masonic Lodge and served on the Board of the Roosevelt Savings Bank, The Rubber Trade Association and St. Christopher Ottilie. He w
 BLOCK-Rabbi Irving J. Our hearts are heavy as we grieve the loss of our friend and spiritual leader. A truly compassionate and visionary man whose ideas of brotherhood and building bridges were unique. Condolences to his wife Phyllis, son Herbert, daughter-in-law Judith, and two grandsons. 
 CARRILLO deALBORNOZRene. 94, died Saturday, November 2, 2002. He is survived by his wife Evelyn D. Carrillo, his son Rev. Rene Carrillo, his daughter Nina Preyre, five grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. The funeral services have yet to be announced. Memorial contributions may be mad
 HOLBY-Warren. 87. Westchester developer, Builders Institute President and transAtlantic sailor, on October 30, 2002. The 50 year partnership of Merritt & Holby developed communities all over Westchester, building over 1,000 homes in the 1950's, as well as Harrison Executive Park and Rye Rid
 JACOBS-Jerry. 68, died October 31, Brooklyn, NY, surrounded by loving family, Assemblywoman Rhoda Jacobs, children Ronit, Ethan, Sara. He loved and was loved by those whose lives he touched. A gentle soul, always a mentor and teacher, his legacy will be the memory of his goodness, passionat
 KRANZ-Bob. We are heartbroken over the loss of such a special friend. So many years, so many wonderful memories. Our deepest sympathy to Marilyn, Robin, Gary and Steven. We shall remember you always. Mitzi and Fred Alma and Milton KRANZ-Harold ''Bob.'' 77, of Boca Raton, FL, also of
 KWOK-Dr. Shing Yuen. Passed away on October 31, 2002, at Beth Israel Medical Center near his home of over 22 years in Manhattan, NY. He is mourned by his wife Lam Kin Mei; son, Chien (Danny), from his first marriage to Yauling Lee; daughter-in-law, Agnes Lai; sisters, Tyi Tji, Lien, Swan of
 MAILMAN-Norton W. On November 1, 2002, at his home in Manhattan, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Virginia Shevlin. Father of Christopher B. Mailman and Bruce W. Addison of NYC, and Matthew D. Addison of Los Angeles. Grandfather of four. Interment private. Memorial service to be ann
 MILTENBERG-Herman. 97 years young, our dearly departed friend and confidant whom was admired and respected by all, passed away on November 3, 2002. Words cannot express this man's generosity and caring for everyone and everything he touched. Morally and ethically perfect, he was successful 
 ROSENGARTEN-Glen Steven. Died November 2, 2002. He was 54 years old. He is survived by his daughters, Danielle, Michelle, and Haley Rosengarten, brothers Jay and Richard Rosengarten, and father Martin Rosengarten. The founder of the Food Emporium, an innovator and pioneer in the supermarket
 WEINGARD - William. Age 90. We mourn the passing of William Weingard who dedicated his life to his entire family. His magical smile and sweet voice will forever be missed by all of those who loved him. Services Tuesday, 10 AM, at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, New York.  
 Richard Rocco, an Army medic in the Vietnam War who received the Medal of Honor for rescuing severely wounded fellow crewmen from the wreckage of a downed helicopter under enemy fire, died on Thursday at his home in San Antonio. He was 63. The cause was cancer, his wife, Maria, said
 Jonathan Harris, a versatile character actor perhaps best known for his role as the villainous Dr. Smith in the science-fiction fantasy series ''Lost in Space'' on CBS television, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 87 and lived in the Encino section of Los Angeles. He had been ho
 BERG-Sidney. Formerly of Great Neck, NY, passed away at his home in San Antonio, Texas on October 31, 2002. Devoted husband of Ruth, loving father of Judith and the late Daniel, grandfather of Miriam. Family requests donations be sent to the National Yiddish Book Center, 1021 West St. Amher
 BLOCK-Irving, Rabbi. Disabled and Alone/Life Services for the Handicapped Board, members and staff extend their profound condolences to the family of Rabbi Irving Block. He was an enthusiastic and committed member of the board from the inception of the organization until his death. His beli
 BRILLEMBOURG - Arturo Jose of Caracas, Venezuela, of 83 years has died peacefully in New York City on November 2, 2002. He was devoted to his family and served his country, Venezuela, as a successful businessman, lawyer, professor of law, economist, Congressman, and Senator. As President of
 FEIERMAN-Martin. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Martin Feierman. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to his family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Daniel J. Beller, President       
 GOLDBERG - George. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LEEDS-Harold Eliot. On October 29th, 2002 in his 89th year in NYC. He founded the graduate program of Interior Design at the Pratt Institute where he was head of the department. He is survived by his companion Wheaton Galentine. A memorial will take place on Wednesday November 20 at 5 P.M. 
 LEIDER-Burton. ''Burt'' Leider of West Palm Beach, Florida passed away on November 1, 2002 at the age of 73. Burt worked in real state management in New York City for 50 years including running his own management company, B.L. Management for over 25 years. Funeral services will be held at S
 LYONS-Murray. On November 3, 2002. Treasured husband of Hortense (Fenig), beloved father of two daughters, and cherished grandfather of four. Decorated veteran of W.W. II, he was a brave, kind, loving man whose family was the essence of his life.       
 MACHIZ-Leon. Of Manhasset, New York. On November 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Lorraine (Lorrie) Machiz, adored father and father-inlaw of Jean and Marc I. Machiz, Linda Machiz-Kilimonis and James Kilimonis, and Christine and Gary S. Machiz, and proud grandfather of Joshua, Douglas, Kevin, Ni
 MAILMAN-Norton W. On November 1, 2002, at his home in Manhattan, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Virginia Shevlin. Father of Christopher B. Mailman and Bruce W. Addison of NYC, and Matthew D. Addison of Los Angeles. Grandfather of four. Interment private. Memorial service to be ann
 MIZELL-Dan, 50. On November 2, after a brief illness. Agent, producer, designer and gentleman, a shining beacon of love and support to his family and friends. Donations may be made to The Actors Fund.       
 RAPHAEL-Arnold M. A man for all seasons. We enjoyed 76 years of friendship encompassing common interests ranging from baseball to butterfly ballots. His amazing ability to communicate coupled with his humor and intelligence made us look forward to his company and conversation with deep affe
 ROSENBERG - Seymour. Died on November 4. Former Major of the U.S. Army, veteran of W.W. II and former Mason. Beloved husband of the late Elsa Rosenberg, devoted father of his children Helene, Anita and Lester. Services Tuesday 10 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. 
 SOMMERS-Sheldon C., M.D. Beloved husband of Bernice; man of science; served humanity in peace and war. Served in World War II Rangers; received Croix de Guerre, Brass Star and Silver Star. Also survived by niece Dr. Pamela Frances Gallin Yablon and three greatnieces Laura, Abigail and Hilar
 TREVOR-Bronson of Locust Valley, LI and Paul Smith's, NY. Formerly of Mill Neck, LI & New York City, on November 2, 2002, age 91. Beloved husband of Eleanor Darlington Fisher. Father of Eleanor T. von Stade (Charles), Bronson Trevor Jr. (Nancy), and Caroline Wilmerding Salas. Brother of Joh
 ZISES-Alvin. On November 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Bersin) of Palm Beach. Loving father of David, Margery, Sherry and the late Richard of Newton, MA. Devoted brother of Bernard and the late Jerry. Cherished grandfather of Matthew, Heather, Jonathan and Joshua. Donations in his 
 Donald S. MacNaughton, an insurance and health care executive who, from the late 1960's to the mid-1980's, ran two of the nation's biggest companies -- first the Prudential Insurance Company of America and then the Hospital Corporation of America -- died on Sunday in a hospital in Greenwich
 Rabbi Irving J. Block, an ecumenical-minded religious leader who founded the Brotherhood Synagogue in Manhattan and delighted in sharing the sanctuary with Christians of all denominations, died Thursday. He was 79. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, synagogue offi
 BORUT-Abraham, 93. Born in NYC, November 11, 1908; Longtime resident of Riverdale, NY and Putnam County, NY. A graduate of the Baruch School at City College, he started his career at the City College Club, opened a mirror-specialty business and took over Interstate Mechanical Laboratories, 
 BOZORTH-Squire Newland. Died on November 5, 2002 at age 67. He is survived by his beloved wife of 35 years, Louise Mathews Bozorth, by his son and daughter, Squire Mathews Bozorth, and Caroline Bozorth Sayan, his granddaughter, Laila Louise Bozorth, and his sisters, Caroline Bozorth Baumann
 LAWRENCE-Edward A. Of Port Washington and Shelter Island, NY on November 3, in Takayama, Japan. He is survived by daughters Leslie of Ipswich, MA., and Pamela of Swampscott, MA., and by his step children and grandchildren of the Korobkin family. He also leaves his partner, Nadine Heyman of 
 LONDON-Carl. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Staten Island, NY, passed away yesterday, November 5, 2002, at the age of 73. Loving husband to Mildred; beloved father to daughter, Sherri, and her husband Michael & son, David, and his wife Jennifer; and devoted grandfather to Lauren, Emily, 
 MACHIZ-Leon. Of Manhasset, New York. On November 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Lorraine (Lorrie) Machiz, adored father and father-inlaw of Jean and Marc I. Machiz, Linda Machiz-Kilimonis and James Kilimonis, and Christine and Gary S. Machiz, and proud grandfather of Joshua, Douglas, Kevin, Ni
 MAILMAN-Norton W. On November 1, 2002, at his home in Manhattan, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Virginia Shevlin. Father of Christopher B. Mailman and Bruce W. Addison of NYC, and Matthew D. Addison of Los Angeles. Grandfather of four. Interment private. Memorial service to be ann
 NOVOGRODSKY - Solomon. Died peacefully in his 100th year. Beloved husband of Sarah, brother of Irving Nover, Esther Elkin, Abbe and the late Joseph. Loving father of Esther Greenberg, David Novogrodsky, Leah and Alex Moskovits. Devoted grandfather of Francine, Jessica and Ricky, Benjamin an
 O'CONNOR-Edward S. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Edward S. O'Connor, a Veteran Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian    
 SCHWARTZ - Allen. Of Brooklyn Heights and Fair Harbor, Fire Island, NY died peacefully at home in Brooklyn on November 5, 2002. Beloved husband of Rita Itkin Schwartz and loving father of Laura Barnett of NYC and Benjamin Schwartz of Wendell, MA. Devoted brother of Jean Rose Kozlove of Loui
 SKLAROFF-Murray. Loving husband of Anna, father of Michael and Gail, Susan and Jerry, Jeffrey and Andrea. Grandfather of Rishana, Benjamin, Jeremy, Jonathan, Amelia and Jonah. Brother of Ada Swenson and Joan Manto. Administrative law judge at Jericho office of the U.S. Social Security Admin
 STAUDERMAN-Rev. Albert P. Died November 3, 2002 at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center, FL, at age 92. He touched the lives of many as the editor of ''The Lutheran Magazine'' and earlier in his ministry as Pastor of St. Paul's Lutheran Church in Teaneck, NJ. He is survived by his wife Ruth (D
 THEOBALD-Steven B., age 57. An investment banker who was an innovator in the financing of housing and financial institutions, died on Monday, November 4 in Chicago. The cause was cardiac arrest, which occurred while he was jogging. Mr. Theobald was born in Rock Island, IL on June 15, 1945, 
 TREVOR-Bronson of Locust Valley, LI and Paul Smith's, NY. Formerly of Mill Neck, LI & New York City, on November 2, 2002, age 91. Beloved husband of Eleanor Darlington Fisher. Father of Eleanor T. von Stade (Charles), Bronson Trevor Jr. (Nancy), and Caroline Wilmerding Salas. Brother of Joh
 Glen S. Rosengarten, a grocery-chain executive who packed the aisles of Food Emporium supermarkets with imported and specialty foods, died on Saturday at his Greenwich, Conn., home. He was 54. The cause was complications from lymphoma, his family said. In 1980, Mr. Rosengart
 BERG-Sidney. The National Yiddish Book Center mourns the passing of Sidney Berg, a great champion of Yiddish culture and a steadfast friend to us all. Z''l-may his memory be for a blessing.       
 BOZORTH-Squire Newland. Died on November 5, 2002 at age 67. He is survived by his beloved wife of 35 years, Louise Mathews Bozorth, by his son and daughter, Squire Mathews Bozorth, and Caroline Bozorth Sayan, his granddaughter, Laila Louise Bozorth, and his sisters, Caroline Bozorth Baumann
 DRUCKER-Henry M. Age 60. Died Wednesday, October 30 in London, England. He was a 1964 graduate of Allegheny College. He received his PhD in 1967 from the London School of Economics after which he joined the faculty of the University of Edinburgh in the Politics Department. In 1987 he was Di
 LIPMAN-Jack, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Pres. William G. Stein, M.D., V.P.. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secy.
 MILLER-Timothy Broemmer, 16. Of Plandome, Long Island. Cherished son of Bruce and Elizabeth. Dear brother of Peter, Tristan and Jake. Beloved grandson of William and Katie Miller and Brian and Ann Jennings. Cherished great-grandson of Lillian Miller. Much loved by his many aunts, uncles and
 NEWMIER-George V. November 4, 2002. Beloved brother of Marian R. Miller. Devoted uncle of Michael A. Miller and William J. Miller. Long time companion of the late Alton M. Wyser. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Aven
 QUITTELL-Jules. With love from his family. Glenn, Jeanne, Robin, Rick, Lynne, Eric and Alexandra       
 ROSS-Jesse. Of Washington, D.C., formerly of Merrick, NY, on Nov. 5, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Libbie. Devoted father of David (Carol) Ross and Laura (Jeffrey) Blumenfeld. Adored grandfather of Peter (Maria Grazia) Ross and Jeremy Ross, Jennifer (Graham) Schwarz & Joshua Blumenfeld.
 SCHWARTZ - Allen. Of Brooklyn Heights and Fair Harbor, Fire Island, NY died peacefully at home in Brooklyn on November 5, 2002. Beloved husband of Rita Itkin Schwartz and loving father of Laura Barnett of NYC and Benjamin Schwartz of Wendell, MA. Devoted brother of Jean Rose Kozlove of Loui
 Harry Rositzke, an American spymaster whose career veered from researching the origins of the English language to probing the inner workings of Nazi Germany and, later, the Soviet Union, died on Monday at a hospital in Warrenton, Va. He was 91 and lived in Middleburg, Va. An intelli
 Joseph Eisenberg, a retired labor negotiator for The New York Times who helped write and administer the paper's contracts with the Newspaper Guild of New York for more than two decades, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Miami Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 74. The cause was a 
 BOZORTH-Squire. Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Inc. mourns the passing of a loyal and beloved friend. Mr. Bozorth served on our Board for 19 years and served on our executive, budget, program and development committees. His support and contributions will be long remembered. Our 
 CHEN-Bob (Chi). We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Lu, his daughters, Liana Chen Silverstein and Lena Chen, his grandsons, Robby and Cory Silverstein, and the entire family. The Board of The Food Allergy Initiative       
 EISENBERG-Paul. Died suddenly on Wednesday, November 6, 2002 at age 89. He is survived by his beloved and loving wife of 64 years, Norma Eisenberg, by his son, Dr. Richard Eisenberg, and a daughter Judy Bieber, son-inlaw Alvin, daughter-in-law, Marcia, cherished grandchildren, Michael, Wend
 GOEDECKE-Hugh B. Of New York City on November 6, 2002. A funeral Mass will be offered in Notre Dame Church, North Caldwell, NJ on Saturday, November 9 at 11AM. Visiting in the Prout Funeral Home, 973-239-2060, 370 Bloomfield Ave., Verona, NJ on Friday 2-4 and 7-9PM. In lieu of flowers donat
 GOLDSBY - Arthur Ray mond, Ph.D. 97, formerly of Chappaqua, N.Y. died November 6, 2002 at The Highlands in Wyomissing, PA. Inventor or co-inventor of 70 patents while a Chemist at Texaco for more than 30 years and recipient of 1998 American Chemical Society's George A. Olah Award for his al
 LESTER-Jules. The Board of Governors and the entire membership of Delaire Country Club mourns the loss of Jules Lester and extends their deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Phyllis and his entire extended family. Mal Levenson, President       
 MILLER-Timothy Broemmer, 16. Of Plandome, Long Island. Cherished son of Bruce and Elizabeth. Dear brother of Peter, Tristan and Jake. Beloved grandson of William and Katie Miller and Brian and Ann Jennings. Cherished great-grandson of Lillian Miller. Much loved by his many aunts, uncles and
 NEWMIER-George V. November 4, 2002. Beloved brother of Marian R. Miller. Devoted uncle of Michael A. Miller and William J. Miller. Long time companion of the late Alton M. Wyser. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Aven
 ROSS-Jesse. For some 70 years we lived, played and argued the world together. My parents and home were his as well, in the East Bronx. We struggled together against Franco's fascist hordes in Spain, Hitler's Holocaust in Nazi Germany and Stalin's murderous regime in Russia. We sought to bui
 TOUMEY-Hubert J. Passed away on November 7, 2002. Beloved husband of Dorothy H. Toumey and father of Donald J. and Kenneth D. Toumey. Friends may call on Friday, November 8 from 4-8PM at the F. Hoyt Funeral Home, New Canaan, CT. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Saturday, November 
 WAGNER - Gary. Beloved husband of Ilsa; loving brother of Myra Sawikin; devoted uncle of Harvey Sawikin and Judy Fein. He died as he lived, with dignity. Born in Germany, he prospered after WWII in America as a pioneer of the TV industry and founder of Wagner International Photos, a leader 
 WALKER - John Denley. Died on October 1st, 2002, at his home in Georgetown, Washington, D.C., of cancer. A highly decorated World War II aviator, a distinguished career in the U.S. Foreign Service and C.I.A. from 1952 to 1978 with assignments in France, Malta, Australia and Israel, and Exec
 WHITE - Alexander Moss. Died Nov. 5, 2002 at his home, Pachelbel Farm in Old Chatham, NY surrounded by loving family. He will always be cherished by his wife Amy, children Alison Pena, Tim White, Chris White, Annie Plumer, Elsie White and three grandsons. His son Alec died in 1985. Born 193
 ZISHOLTZ - David. Passed away November 7, 2002, in Brooklyn, NY. Survived by his beloved children, Gloria Renee Futterweit and Gerald Zisholtz. Grandfather to 11 grandchildren and 20 greatgrandchildren. Services to be held today in Brooklyn, NY.       
 Rudolf Augstein, the founder and publisher of Der Spiegel, who regarded his weekly news magazine as the ''assault artillery'' of his country's fledgling postwar democracy, died today of pneumonia, his publishing company said. He was 79. With few parallels in European publishing, Mr.
 Squire Newland Bozorth, a New York lawyer who specialized in estate matters and who was a longtime adviser to major charitable organizations, died Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. After graduating from New York University Law S
 Dr. Charles Sheffield, a physicist and prolific science fiction author, died last Saturday at a hospice near his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 67. The cause was brain cancer, said his literary agent, Eleanor Wood. Dr. Sheffield, a native of Britain, had a doctorate in ph
 Heinz von Foerster, a physicist and a philosopher who was an early leader in the field of information theory, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Pescadero, Calif. He was 90. In the 1940's and 1950's Dr. von Foerster was a participant in a series of scientific meetings in New York City th
 Lefty Wilson, a longtime trainer for the Detroit Red Wings who left the bench three times to become an emergency goalie in National Hockey League games -- twice facing his own team -- died Tuesday in Naples, Fla. He was 83. Wilson, who lived in West Bloomfield, Mich., was visiting f
 ESTRIN-Mark W. Age 64. Died Wednesday at his home in Providence, R.I., after a brief illness. Professor of English at Rhode Island College, he chaired the English department from 1970 to 1976 and founded the Film Studies program, which he directed from 1976 until 1992. A 1959 graduate of Am
 HARRIS-Seymour J. Died peacefully on November 7, 2002, at the age of 82 in Sarasota, FL. Beloved husband of Marilyn, loving father of April and the late Randall, loving father-in-law of Kevin Dyer, adored grandfather of Sophia, son of the late Faye and Mike Harris. A life-long New Yorker, r
 HODYS-Paul N. Loving husband of Helen; devoted father of daughter Renee and husband John and son Allen and wife Debbie; adoring grandfather of Ella and Cole; and deeply caring cousin and friend. Born in Lodz, Poland. Survived the Holocaust. Brought compassion, generosity and humor to all wh
 TOUMEY-Hubert J. Passed away on November 7, 2002. Beloved husband of Dorothy H. Toumey and father of Donald J. and Kenneth D. Toumey. Friends may call on Friday, November 8 from 4-8PM at the F. Hoyt Funeral Home, New Canaan, CT. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Saturday, November 
 VAN DYKE-Harry. An architect, 76, noted for his work on historic projects and restoration, died November 4 at home in Columbia County, NY. The cause of death was cancer. He graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and began his career in San Francisco with Wurster, Bernardi and Emmon
 WHITE - Alexander Moss. Died Nov. 5, 2002 at his home, Pachelbel Farm in Old Chatham, NY surrounded by loving family. He will always be cherished by his wife Amy, children Alison Pena, Tim White, Chris White, Annie Plumer, Elsie White and three grandsons. His son Alec died in 1985. Born 193
 Dr. Marvin Kuschner, who presided over the birth of the medical school at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and its development into a well-regarded teaching institution, died on Oct. 18 in New York. He was 83. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family sai
 BELL-Peter B. Age sixtyone, died November 4, 2002 at his home in Cuernavaca, Mexico. Formerly of Wayzata, MN, Washington, DC and Northeast Harbor, ME. Preceded in death by his father, James Ford Bell Jr., and stepmother, Elinor Bell. Survived by his mother Valborg Mockridge, and stepfather 
 BOZORTH-Squire Newland. Died on November 5, 2002 at age 67. He is survived by his beloved wife of 35 years, Louise Mathews Bozorth, by his son and daughter, Squire Mathews Bozorth, and Caroline Bozorth Sayan, his granddaughter, Laila Louise Bozorth, and his sisters, Caroline Bozorth Baumann
 CARROLL-John (Jack). Of South Dennis, MA, and Long Boat Key, FL, died November 7, 2002, after a long illness that he fought with courage and without complaint. Survived by his devoted wife Kathleen, his loving daughters Jaclynn of Larchmont, NY, and Kathleen of Louisville, KY, and adored gr
 COALE-Ansley J. William Church Osborne Professor of Political Affairs Emeritus and former director of The Office of Population Research, on November 5, 2002, at Pennswood Village, Newtown, PA. He is survived by his wife Sarah and two sons, Ansley Jr. and Robert; also by three grandchildren.
 DANTCHIK - William. Be loved husband of Sandra. Loving father of Leslie, Cathy, and Arthur. Dear brother of Lily. Cherished uncle. His sense of humor endeared him to all who knew him. He loved his family and friends unconditionally. We miss him greatly and he will be forever in our hearts. 
 GOLDRICH-Richard. Passed away on November 7, 2002. Beloved husband of Karen. Father of Shayna. Son of William and Frances Goldrich and brother of Kenneth and Jeffrey Goldrich. He will be sorely missed by his family and many friends. Contributions may be sent to the Diamond Blackfan Anemia F
 HAYDEN-Neil S. (Buddy). Suddenly on November 7, 2002. He was an entrepreneur and a publisher. Survived by his beloved wife Ellen, loving mother Selma, and his children Stephanie, Alex and Jennifer, adored grandchildren Summer, Jessica and Charlie. We love you always and forever. Services ar
 HODYS-Paul N. Loving husband of Helen; devoted father of daughter Renee and husband John and son Allen and wife Debbie; adoring grandfather of Ella and Cole; and deeply caring cousin and friend. Born in Lodz, Poland. Survived the Holocaust. Brought compassion, generosity and humor to all wh
 HUNT-Walter Merrill. Age 96. Died peacefully on November 6, 2002, at Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ. A 1929 graduate of Bowdoin College, he also had an MBA degree from Harvard. He had resided for more than 50 years in Short Hills, NJ. Survived by a daughter, Mrs. John Solum of Westport, CT, a
 JACOBS-Jerry. 68, died October 31, Brooklyn, NY, surrounded by loving family, Assemblywoman Rhoda Jacobs, children Ronit, Ethan, Sara. He loved and was loved by those whose lives he touched. A gentle soul, always a mentor and teacher, his legacy will be the memory of his goodness, passionat
 KILBOURN-Austin. Of Garden City, NY on November 2, 2002 after a brief illness. For 51 years beloved husband of Anne McGrath Kilbourn. Father of Mary C. Kilbourn, Timothy D. Kilbourn, Anne K. Bonington and Elizabeth K. Graham. Father-in-law of Thomas H. Sear, Donna M. Kilbourn, David A. Boni
 KOKKINS-John. In his 102nd year. Dearest friend, you carried in you an ancient spark that made Greece the Cradle of Western Civilization: intellect, creativity, courage and wisdom. Throughout your long life as an American citizen and architect you contributed your talent and energy to the c
 MIZELL-Dan, 50. On November 2, after a brief illness. Agent, producer, designer and gentleman, a shining beacon of love and support to his family and friends. Donations may be made to The Actors Fund.       
 NASSERI-Nahid. We would like to express our deepest sympathy to Mr. Faramarz Nasseri and family upon the passing of his loving wife and their cherished mother, Nahid Nasseri. Fereshteh Zariri and Shaphari and M.H. Reshad NASSERI-Nahid. We would like to extend our sincere condolences
 PALATUCCI-Donald Moore, M.D. Died November 8, 2002, at his home. Beloved husband of Blanid, devoted father of Susanna, Nicholas, and Marc, and dear brother of Bonnie, Michael, Marion and Christopher. A dedicated physician, he grew up in New York and after graduating from Columbia Medical Sc
 POLITZER-Dr. Alan A. Age 92, died November 8th, 2002 of complications of Alzheimer's disease. He is survived by his wife Valerie of 63 years, his sons Peter and David, and his grandchildren Benjamin, Rebecca, Adam and Noah. He was a practicing physician and surgeon for 47 years. He was acti
 POLLACK-Frieda Farkas. S/A/R Academy extends its condolences to Irv Rotter, trustee, upon the loss of his sister. May the entire family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President       
 SACHAROFF-Howard, November 6. Beloved husband of Rita. Father of Mitchell & Robin. Grandfather of Nhiki. Loved by all who knew him. Will live forever in our hearts. SACHAROFF - Howard. In loving memory of a special uncle with a kind heart. Sharon, Stephen Leslie and Sandy       
 SAPORITA-Thomas E. Of New York City, 45, on November 7, 2002, after a long illness. Beloved son of Jean Saporita of Rockville Centre, NY, and John Saporita of Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Loving brother of Patricia Carman and Donna Saporita. Dear brother-inlaw of Jack Carman. Devoted uncle of Ja
 TERRIN-Alexander J., M.D., 90, of Brooklyn, died peacefully on November 9, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Bernice (nee Mayer). Loving father of Michael Terrin, Bruce Terrin and Norma Terrin, and father-in-law of Bess Keller, Amy Tetenbaum and Lee Goldstein. Cherished grandfather of Will,
 WALKER - John Denley. Died on October 1st, 2002, at his home in Georgetown, Washington, D.C., of cancer. A highly decorated World War II aviator, a distinguished career in the U.S. Foreign Service and C.I.A. from 1952 to 1978 with assignments in France, Malta, Australia and Israel, and Exec
 WEIL-M. Sanford, 90. Of Sarasota, died November 6. Survived by a brother, John, and a sister-in-law plus numerous nieces and nephews. An active volunteer of 30,000 hours, highly respected member of the Northampton, MA community. We mourn his loss.       
 KLEBAN-Francis J. As we pass milestones in our lives without him, he is deeply missed.       
 Dr. René Thom, the French mathematician whose catastrophe theory once held out hope of predicting unruly phenomena like earthquakes, prison riots and the outbreak of war, died on Oct. 25 in Bures-sur-Yvette, near Paris, where he had worked at the Institute of Advanced Scientific Studies. H
 Harold E. Leeds, an architect and designer, died on Oct. 29 in a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Leeds designed buildings, offices and interiors and taught interior design at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. He was chairman of the undergraduate school of interior design from 1
 CARVO-Dr. Salvatore P. Husband of the late Joan (nee Macri). Survived by daughters Catherine Tracy and Joan Carvo, grandchildren Alec, Claudia, Peter and Joanna Tracy, great-grandsons Samuel and Damien Weinbaum, and sister Ida. He will be remembered as a skilled and compassionate physician 
 EHRENFELD-Dr. James E. Age 66, died Saturday, November 9, 2002, after a year long fight with cancer. Born in 1936, son of Dr. Edward and Martha Ehrenfeld of Passaic, NJ. Beloved and loving husband to Judith and adoring father to Nathan and his wife Tammy. He is also survived by his mother M
 GLADSTONE-Stanley A. On November 8, 2002. Brother of Manuel I. and Jackie Gladstone of Alpharetta, GA, and Sylvia G. Goodwin of North Hollywood, CA. Uncle of Brenda Lee Hanie, greatuncle of April Hanie. Son of the late Minnie and Abe Gladstone. Stanley served as a Captain in the Stategic Ai
 Selden Rodman, a polymathic poet, an iconoclastic critic of modern culture, the author of more than 40 books and a tireless promoter of Haitian and other folk art, died on Nov. 2 at a hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 93. Mr. Rodman, who lived in Oakland, N.J., played tennis two da
 Charles Morris Mount, who brought bold theatricality and hard-headed practicality to the nearly 300 restaurants he designed, from very expensive eateries to fast-food outlets, died on Friday at his weekend home in Mattituck, N.Y. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. He had a heart atta
 BARDAROV-Dr. Stoyan S. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a dedicated scientist, teacher, colleague and friend, who for nearly a decade was a valued member of our Department of Microbiology and Immunology. We extend our hear
 BENDO-Dominick, M.D. We extend our deepest sympathies to the family of the late Dominick Bendo, M.D.dedicated able clinician, wise teacher, loyal colleague. We share his family's loss. The Beekman Medical Associates John T. Flynn, M.D.       
 CUSACK - Maurice Joseph (1918-2002). Passed away peacefully October 28 in New York City. Predeceased by his beloved wife Yvonne. Survived by his brother Leopold & family. Past Vice President of Irving Trust (1957-1980). Awarded Spain's Titulo de Comendador de la Orden del Merito Civil. Memo
 EHRENFELD-James E. The staff of Barnett, Ehrenfeld, Edelstein & Gross PC are deeply saddened by the loss of their distinguished colleague and innovative computer specialist, lawyer and physician. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Judy; his son, Nathan, and his entire family. Michael H.
 FLEEMAN-David B. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of our beloved friend and longtime leader, David Fleeman. David was an Honorary National Vice President, a member of our National Board of Governors, National Leadership Council, Horizon Society, and a past presi
 FRANKEL-Morton Howard. Died on November 10th, 2002, at 88 years of age. A combat veteran of World War II, he is the beloved brother of Samuel (deceased), and Ben, dear brother-in-law of Ruth (deceased) and Phyllis and devoted uncle of Ronnie Ann, Martin, Jeffrey, Doreen, Faith, Howard, Rach
 GLADSTONE-Stanley A. On November 8, 2002. Brother of Manuel I. and Jackie Gladstone of Alpharetta, GA, and Sylvia G. Goodwin of North Hollywood, CA. Uncle of Brenda Lee Hanie, greatuncle of April Hanie. Son of the late Minnie and Abe Gladstone. Stanley served as a Captain in the Stategic Ai
 GOLDMAN-Steven A., 58. Of Saugerties, NY and formerly of West Nyack died November 10, 2002. Founder of Goldman Machinery Dynamics Corp. in West Nyack, he was a Professional Engineer. He authored and lectured on vibration analysis. Husband of Rosemary, father of Daniel and Lizabeth Goldman; 
 KOENIGSBERG-Harry L. On November 11 at age 81. Beloved and loving husband of Nancy, father of Lisa, and father-in-law of David L. Becker; and adored and adoring grandfather of Emily K. Becker. Also survived by sister Zelma K. Berk, niece Joan Berman, her husband Gary and daughter Marcy, and
 KOKKINS-John M. Died on Nov. 6, 2002, Palm Beach, FL. Age 101. He immigrated from Karpathos, Greece, to the USA in 1921 and attended Columbia University and The School of Architecture. He became a prominent architect-builder in NYC and Westchester. He is survived by his son, Stephen J. Kokk
 MORGENSTERN - Murry, PhD, died November 10, 2002, age 80. A pioneer in the field of the sexuality of the mentally retarded. He leaves Harold Michal-Smith, wonderful, close friends and a large family whom he loved and who loved him. Memorial service to be announced. MORGENSTERN-Dr. M
 NESTERMAN-Lewis J., 91. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Died on October 26 after a brief illness. For 58 years a publisher of maps and guidebooks in New York City, he was a veteran of World War II, serving with the 507th AAA Battalion in the Pacific. He is survived by his wife of 65 years, Shirley, and a
 RENNA-Anthony W., DDS. On November 9, 2002, past Member of N.Y. Italian Dental Society, residence in Brooklyn, and Sag Harbor, NY. He was beloved for his humor, and kindness. His loss is deeply mourned by his wife, Dorothy, of 54 years, his children, Patricia Cartelli, Michael Renna, Rosema
 SIEGEL-Stanley L., attorney at law, died November 10, 2002. He is mourned by his family & all who knew him well. Rest in peace. There will be a memorial service at a future date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Alzheimers Association.       
 WINSTON-Herbert G., MD. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, and friend. Died November 10, 2002. Revered clinician, professor and a founder of Albert Einstein College of Medicine. For over 50 years a practicing and teaching OB/GYN, he brought so many people into his world and taught us all
 Lawrence A. Rainey, the Mississippi sheriff suspected but never convicted of involvement in the 1964 killing of three civil rights workers, died on Friday at his home in Meridian, Miss. He was 79. Mr. Rainey had been suffering from throat and tongue cancer, said his son John, of Mer
 Matel Dawson Jr., a forklift operator with a ninth-grade education who gave more than $1 million to universities for scholarships and to charities, died on Nov. 2 in his one-bedroom apartment in Highland Park, Mich. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, JoAnn Agee, 
 ALLFREY-Vincent G. The Rockefeller University community mourns with deep sadness the loss of our distinguished colleague and beloved friend, Vincent G. Allfrey. Professor Allfrey, a valued member of the Rockefeller University research community for more than 60 years, was a pioneer in the s
 AULETTA-Michael J., M.D., 44, of Aberdeen, NJ on Thursday, November 7, at home. Dr. Auletta was a prominent Dermatologist and had an office in Freehold, NJ. Survived by his mother, Mary of Aberdeen, NJ and a brother, Tom of Atlantic Highlands, NJ. Funeral was on Saturday at St. Benedict's R
 BARKER-Robert R. The Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History are deeply saddened by the death of Robert R. Barker, devoted Trustee of the Museum since 1968, and Honorary Trustee since 1999. He was a valued and active member of the Board, who throughout his many years of
 BERNARD-David S., 75. Of Hartsdale, NY. Died on November 11, 2002. He was born on June 19, 1927 in New York City. David was President of D.S.B. Associates in New York City retiring in 1997. Mr. Bernard was a Docent at Hudson River Museum, Yonkers, NY and Volunteer at Family Services of West
 FRIEDMAN-Hy. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Hy Friedman, our colleague, friend and longtime Assistant Director, ADL New York Campaign. We extend our condolences to his daughters, Rochelle and Caryn and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, 
 GITTELSON-Dr. Roger. On November 11, 2002. Beloved husband of Fern (Rotkowitz), treasured and devoted father of Lori, Jane & Kenneth, and Meredith. Cherished grandfather of Daniel, Carolyn, and Michael. Survived by beloved older brothers and sisters-inlaw Stanley & Joan and Arthur & Genie. 
 GOLDFINGER-Bernice Nalven, 76. Died on November 10. Beloved wife of the late William. Mother of Bert and his wife Christine of N.Y.C., and Barbara Matchar and Dr. David Matchar of Chapel Hill, NC. Grandmother to Emily, Ben and Daniel.       
 GOULDER-Alice. On November 11, 2002 at the age of 80. Beloved wife of the late James H. Loving mother of James Jr. and his wife, Ingrid, Alison and the late John E. Devoted grandmother of Deborah and David Steingesser. Dear sister of Joseph S. Iseman; sister-in-law of Robert Sackheim and lo
 GREGG-John Lewis. On November 11, 2002. Age 90. Longtime friend, companion and partner of Ivan Kaminoff. He is survived by his brother, Saunders Gregg and wife Edwina, his nieces, Susie Dilg and Martha Ann Snyder. Service Friday, November 15, 11:30 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison A
 LUSARDI-James P. Lafayette College mourns the passing of James P. Lusardi, class of 1955, Francis A. March Professor Emeritus of English, on November 10, 2002, at age 71. We express our deepest condolences to his wife, Marcia, and family. A memorial service will be held at 2pm Sunday, Novem
 MORGENSTERN - Murry. YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities Network is deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Murry Morgenstern. A pioneer in the field of developmental disabilities, he was a longtime friend of our organization and a distinguished board member of our network of 
 RIGNEY-Rev. Msgr. Raymond P. was born in New York City on February 22, 1917. He was ordained to the Catholic Priesthood on May 30, 1942. He served as an Assistant Pastor at these churches: St. Peter's, Yonkers, Corpus Christi, Manhattan, Holy Spirit, the Bronx, and St. Thomas More, Manhatta
 RODRIGUEZ-Bolivar M., 60. On November 10, 2002. Retired NYPD 52nd Pct. A member of the PBA, he leaves behind his first wife Marion and their children Ricardo, Marion and Nicole. His second wife Laura and their children Vashun Bolivar, four grandchildren Arissa, Aiden, Matea and Talia. Numer
 ROMAN-Mel, Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of its distinguished professor emeritus of its Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences. A renowned expert in family therapy, Dr. Roman was also a compassionate teacher and innovative resea
 RUSSO-Stephen A., Attorney, of Forest Hills, suddenly on November 9, 2002. Beloved father of David Anson Russo and Hilary Russo Titus. Dear brother of Lorraine Russo Cuoco. Grandfather of two granddaughters, Taylor and Logan. Steve was a highly skilled, yet compassionate prosecutor during t
 SEGAL-Albert. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Albert Segal, father of Adele Greenblatt, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, Nat'l President       
 SPEISER-Marvin. The Baruch College community and the Trustees of the Baruch College Fund record their profound sorrow at the loss of Marvin M. Speiser '46, a lifelong friend and supporter of the College. A Trustee Emeritus and a founding member of the Baruch Fellows Program, Marvin, along w
 TAYLOR-J. Read. Founder of Oyster Bay Yacht Service and a longtime Rotarian and supporter of Oyster Bay causes and people, died at home on November 11 after a long illness. Survived by his wife of 60 years, Patricia (nee Green), loving mother of his three boys, John, Kneeland and Talbot and
 WINSTON-Herbert, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the death of its distinguished founding faculty member and clinical professor emeritus of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Women's Health. Dr. Winston was a much beloved teacher to countless gener
 Vincent James Landano, who fought a successful 22-year battle to clear himself in the 1976 murder of a Newark policeman, died on Monday at a hospital in Toms River, N.J. He was 63 and lived in Manville, N.J. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Camille. Mr. Landano h
 Billy Guy, an original member of the Coasters vocal quartet who stood out for the raw quality of his baritone voice and sense of comedy on 50's hits like ''Searchin','' died on Tuesday in his apartment in Las Vegas. He was 66. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said Carl Gardner,
 Billy Mitchell, a member of the 1950's doo-wop group the Clovers and the lead singer on ''Love Potion No. 9'' and other hits, died on Nov. 5 at a hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Helen Gibbs Mitchell. The Clovers, founde
 David Horowitz, who reported from the United Nations for 50 years and devoted himself to writing about its relationship with Israel and the Palestinians from a Zionist point of view, died Oct. 27 in New York. He was 99. Mr. Horowitz began working at the United Nations in 1947 when i
 Ken Raffensberger, a left-handed pitcher who twice shared the National League lead in shutouts during a 15-year career in the major leagues, died Sunday in York, Pa. He was 85. Raffensberger, who made his major league debut in 1939 with the St. Louis Cardinals, had a career record o
 BRAHAM-Robert L., M.D. Beloved husband of Susanne, devoted father of Howard and Diana, dear brother of Carol, devoted uncle and loving stepbrother. Services Tbursday, 1 PM, at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions to the Red Cr
 COBURN-Ralph G., 93. Of Walpole formerly of Bedford, NY died November 8 of heart failure. Retired Rear Admiral, USNR. A memorial service will be held Saturday, November 23 at 11 o'clock AM at Grace Episcopal Church, 150 Chapel St., Norwood, MA. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory may
 COHEN-Shragai. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished member. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 COLE-Connolly, born in Ireland, September 22, 1931. Died November 8, 2002 at his Manhattan residence. His devoted wife, for 32 years, Lori (nee Gunn) was at his side. He is also survived by a brother, Eric Cole of County Wicklow, Ireland and also nieces and nephews. In keeping with his wish
 FOSTER-Raymond Francis. Of Pelham Bay, NY. Died on November 12, 2002 at his home. Retired New York Times Machinist Foreman for over 30 years and World War II Navy Veteran. He is the beloved husband of Catherine (nee Carlucci), loving father of Dolores Salvato of Throgs Neck, NY, Patricia Ro
 GITTELSON-Dr. Roger. On November 11, 2002. Beloved husband of Fern (Rotkowitz), treasured and devoted father of Lori, Jane & Kenneth, and Meredith. Cherished grandfather of Daniel, Carolyn, and Michael. Survived by beloved older brothers and sisters-inlaw Stanley & Joan and Arthur & Genie. 
 GREGG-John Lewis. On November 11, 2002. Age 90. Longtime friend, companion and partner of Ivan Kaminoff. He is survived by his brother, Saunders Gregg and wife Edwina, his nieces, Susie Dilg and Martha Ann Snyder. Service Friday, November 15, 11:30 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison A
 GROSSMAN - Julius. The Board of Directors of Municipal Concerts, Inc. mourns the passing of our Executive and Musical Director. His many years of music making will be fondly remembered by his audiences and we send our sympathy to Ruth and his entire family. Irwin Feigin, M.D., President    
 HEMLEY-Eugene. The Naval Order of the United States records with sorrow the passing of its esteemed Commander, Captain Eugene A. Hemley, USN-Retired, on November 11, 2002. Our condolences are extended to all his family, friends and colleagues.       
 KISHNER-Ira. Father of our dear partner, Irwin Kishner, who was blessed with a wonderful marriage of more than 41 years. We are very saddened by the news and extend to Ira's beloved wife, Lila, his three adoring children, Melanie, Bryan and Irwin, and his six cherished grandchildren, our he
 LUSARDI-James P. Lafayette College mourns the passing of James P. Lusardi, class of 1955, Francis A. March Professor Emeritus of English, on November 10, 2002, at age 71. We express our deepest condolences to his wife, Marcia, and family. A memorial service will be held at 2pm Sunday, Novem
 ROTTMUND-John Francis. Of Manhasset, NY & Quogue, NY and Melbourne, FL, was born on September 25th, 1928 in Brooklyn, NY. He died after a long illness on November 12, 2002 in Manhasset, NY. He is survived by his wife of 46 years Rita (nee Mastoloni), daughters Louise Pashcow of Brookville, 
 SCHIFFENBAUER - Morris. Beloved husband of Birdie, his wife of 66 years; cherished father of Marty, and Susan and Aaron Fruchter; grandfather and great-grandfather; he lifed a full life of 96 years.       
 SCHUTZ-Will, completed his life peacefully with his family on Saturday, November 9, 2002. He is lovingly missed and his life is celebrated by Ailish his wife and partner of almost 20 years, his five children: Laurie, Caleb, Ethan, Dana and Ari; his grandson Jez and his daughters-in-law Cher
 WIENER-Lester. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and longtime member Lester Wiener. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 Glenn Dobbs, whose passing, running and punting led the University of Tulsa to an unbeaten regular season in 1942 and who later starred for the Brooklyn Dodgers of the fledgling All-America Football Conference, died Tuesday at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 82. The cause was cancer
 BENDO-Dominick, M.D. The members of the Medical Staff of NYU Downtown Hospital extend their deepest sympathies to the family of Dr. Dominick Bendo. He was a valued member of the medical staff and will be missed by his colleagues and the patients who he served. Steven Brandeis, M.D., Preside
 BRAHAM-Robert, M.D. The Administration, Community Advisory Boards, Auxiliaries, and Medical Staff of the North Bronx Healthcare Network mourn the untimely death of Dr. Robert Braham, the former Director of Ambulatory Care Services, from 1993-1997. Dr. Braham was a staunch patient advocate, 
 COHEN-Shragai. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of a passionate champion of Israel who served with great ability and tireless devotion as a senior member of its professional staff from the organization's founding 51 years ago. Shragai wa
 HANNA-Roland, Sir. The faculty, students and colleagues of the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College mourn, with profound sadness, the passing of this great man, Sir Roland Hanna. Consummate artist, pianist extraordinaire, teacher, advisor, composer, arranger, a man whose generosi
 HUTTER-Ira. Of Elmsford, New York on November 14, 2002, at age 79. Principal Auctioneer of Tepper Galleries, active member of Willow Ridge Country Club, Veteran of W.W. II. He is the beloved husband of Phyllis; the devoted father of Robert, Kenneth (Ann), Jonathan (Lisa), Adam (Dana), and L
 MEYERS - David Steven. Age 31. Died tragically, November 11, 2002. Beloved son of Elizabeth Bigel Meyers and Daniel Meyers. Step-son of Joan Meyers and step-son also of Robert Weinstein. Devoted husband of Kim Rabner Meyers. Loving father of Andrew and Noah. Adored grandson of Ruth and Jack
 MILLER-Dr. Bernard. November 11, 2002, age 88. A dentist by profession and a veteran of World War II, he was the quintessential gentleman who adored his family, friends, the arts, New York City and East Hampton. As he was graceful in life, so, too, he was graceful in death. He is survived b
 MYERSON - Bernard. Be loved husband of Muriel, devoted father of Alan and Abby Myerson and Edward and Rachel Myerson, loving grandfather to Kevin, Eric, Zoe, and Gregg, and cherished brother of Libby Hinitz, Martha Meyers and the late Dorothy Kertesz. True friend to many. Private services i
 NEAMAN-Samuel. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of the honorary chairman of our Board of Directors, Samuel Neaman. Mr. Neaman was responsible for the revitalization of several foundering companies, including the McCrory Corporation, which h
 SCHIFFENBAUER - Morris. Beloved husband of Berdie, his wife of 66 years; cherished father of Marty, and Susan and Aaron Fruchter; grandfather and great-grandfather; he lived a full life of 96 years.       
 SMITH-Layton Francis, 73. Of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, died peacefully at his home on November 8, 2002 after a two year battle with cancer. He was born October 2, 1929 in Newark, NJ, moved to Ponte Vedra Beach from Basking Ridge, NJ in 1982, and lived there full time since 1992. He attended Ha
 Roland Hanna, a versatile jazz pianist whose deft touch, lush harmonies and encyclopedic knowledge enabled him to fit comfortably in a wide range of musical contexts, died on Wednesday in Hackensack, N.J. He was 70 and lived in Liberty, N.Y. The cause was a viral infection of the he
 H. Taylor Howard, a pioneer in satellite television and a radio communications specialist for NASA, died on Wednesday when the single-engine plane he was flying crashed shortly after takeoff from Calaveras County Airport in California. He was 70 and lived in San Andreas, Calif.     
 Eddie Bracken, a character actor whose portrayals of bewildered and long-suffering comic heroes crowned a stage, screen and television career of more than 70 years, died Thursday in Montclair, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Glen Ridge, N.J. Mr. Bracken made his first major screen splas
 Herbert Weiner, a leading researcher in psychosomatic medicine and professor emeritus at the U.C.L.A. School of Medicine, died on Tuesday at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Weiner explored the way the brain and body inter
 BRACKEN-Eddie. The Officers, Governors and members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed Member, Eddie Bracken, on November 14, 2002. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Notice for a memorial service will be forthcoming. Alan King, Abbot
 KELMAN - Morris, D.D.S. Nov. 13, 2002. Dentist, WWII veteran. Loved and respected by all who knew him well.       
 LERNER-Abe. Of Manhattan, peacefully at home on November 14, 2002, at age 94. He is survived by his loving and devoted wife, Kit Currie, and by children Hannah, Michael and Judith. Noted book designer and avid collector of modern fine printing, former Director of Design and Production for b
 MYERSON-Bernard. Dearest Bernie, for 50 years we've stood side-by-side as closest friends, through good times and bad. You will remain always in my thoughts as colleague and confidant. My deepest sympathy to Muriel, and the entire Myerson family. Sumner Redstone MYERSON-Bernard. Unc
 WAYNE-Alvin. On November 14, 2002. Devoted husband of Ruth (nee Gruber). Cherished father of Mitchell and Elizabeth. Loving father-inlaw of Sharon Wayne and William Rappaport. Adored grandfather of Gillian, Genna, Nicole and Philip. Survived by brother Edgar. Practicing attorney for over 50
 Robert R. Barker, a Wall Street executive and expert on educational endowments who was president of Harvard University's board of overseers in 1988 and 1989, died on Nov. 8 at a hospice in Stamford, Conn. He was 87 and lived in New Canaan. Mr. Barker was a general partner in the inv
 Samuel Neaman, who oversaw a sprawling retailing empire in the 1960's, died Wednesday at his home in Oceanside, Calif. He was 89 and, until about a decade ago, had lived in New York City. Born in 1913 in what is now Israel, Mr. Neaman lived for many years in London and served in the
 William Packard, a poet, novelist, playwright, editor and founder of The New York Quarterly, a national poetry magazine, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. He died of heart disease, said Raymond Hammond, executive editor of the quarterly. Mr. Packard founded
 Ansley Johnson Coale, a demographer and former director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University, died on Nov. 5 in Newtown, Pa. He was 84. Dr. Coale was an internationally recognized expert on population trends and the demographic statistics that document them. 
 Dr. Mel Roman, a psychologist and artist who drew on both fields to try to bring about social change, died Nov. 9 at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 75. The cause was complications of colon cancer, his family said. For more than three decades, Dr. Roman was director of 
 COHEN-Shragai. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of an outstanding individual, small in stature, but a giant modern day Patriarch of the Jewish People. Shragai was driven by his passionate commitment to Eretz Yisrael, Am Yisrael and Torat Yisrael. He was a role model par excellence who
 COLE-Connolly, born in Ireland, September 22, 1931. Died November 8, 2002 at his Manhattan residence. His devoted wife, for 32 years, Lori (nee Gunn) was at his side. He is also survived by a brother, Eric Cole of County Wicklow, Ireland and also nieces and nephews. In keeping with his wish
 FALCON - Sanders. We mourn the loss of Sanders Falcon, devoted and dedicated son, father, brother and husband. Sandy passed away on November 10, 2002 in Boynton Beach, FL. He was 67 years young. Sandy is survived by his wife Debra; his mother Ann (Anky); his sister Carol and his children Je
 FRIEDMAN-Charles. Passed away on October 10th, 2002, at age 84. A fifty-one year employee of The New York Times. He started as a messenger boy and advanced to a copy editor position in various departments, ending his career in the Sports Department where he enjoyed writing most about tennis
 HEMLEY-Eugene A., Capt. USN (ret) on Veterans Day, November 11, age 84. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Loving father of Philip, Paul, Anne, and Margaret. Devoted grandfather of Elliot, Seth, Benjamin, Charlotte, Max, Scott, Lauren, and Bohdi. Graduate US Naval Academy 1940. Served through WW
 KEMMERER-John L., Jr. Coal Mining Executive and Philanthropist. A pioneer in the development of many national, state, and community organizations, died on November 14, 2002 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, New Jersey after a short illness. He was 91 years old. Born in New York City, Mr. Kemm
 KESTNBAUM - Robert D. Age 70. Beloved husband of Kate (nee Trynin). Loving father of Ellyn (John L.) Daniels and Meyer (Cynthia R. Cook) Kestnbaum. Cherished ''papa'' of Emma Kestnbaum Daniels and Benjamin Kestnbaum Daniels. Fond brother in law of Nathan K. (Judith Sutton) Trynin. Devoted s
 KRINSLY-Stuart Z. At home on November 15, 2002 at age 85. He is survived by his beloved wife, Charlotte Wolf; devoted daughters Joan Rosenthal and Elin Krinsly, and son-in-law Barry Rosenthal; Ari Van Duign, dear companion to Elin Krinsly; adored grandchildren Stephanie, Douglas and Carolyn
 LERNER-Abe. Of Manhattan, peacefully at home on November 14, 2002, at age 94. He is survived by his loving and devoted wife, Kit Currie, and by children Hannah, Michael and Judith. Noted book designer and avid collector of modern fine printing, former Director of Design and Production for b
 MEYERS - David Steven. Age 31. Died tragically, November 11, 2002. Beloved son of Elizabeth Bigel Meyers and Daniel Meyers. Step-son of Joan Meyers and step-son also of Robert Weinstein. Devoted husband of Kim Rabner Meyers. Loving father of Andrew and Noah. Adored grandson of Ruth and Jack
 MORGENSTERN-Dr. Murry. The officers of the United World Partnership on Developmental Disability express their sympathy to the family of our Vice President, Dr. Murry Morgenstern. We will miss him, his leadership and kindness. Faith Robinson, Executive Officer       
 MYERSON - Bernard. The New York Friars Club Sunshine Committee deeply mourns the loss of their beloved and esteemed Friar, Bernard Myerson. His support and spirit will sorely be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. New York Friars Club Sunshine Committee MYERSON-B
 PINSKY-Abe, November 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Sara. Loving father of Sheri Chromow and Seth Pinsky. Cherished grandfather of Henry, Heather and Kyra. Devoted brother of the late Bill Pinsly. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral private.       
 RADWELL-Martin, 68, on November 15, 2002 after a courageous 13 year battle with cancer that deepened his and our appreciation for time spent together. Beloved husband, best friend and lifelong partner of Harriet. Devoted and proud father of Steven, Jodi and Seth and father-in-law of Louise.
 STEINKOLER-Alex. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Ronnie, his children Manya, Danny and Jeremy. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, President STEINKOLER-Alexander H. On Novemb
 WEINER-Dr. Herbert. Beloved husband of Dora; father of Tim, Richard and Tony; grandfather of Daniel, Charlotte, Josh, Stephen, Naomi, Emma and Ruby. Died peacefully at home on November 12. Scientist, scholar, teacher and researcher, he pursued knowledge with passion. He loved art, music, fo
 TRACT - Harold M. Of blessed memory. Passed away 11/18/91. He was a truly noble man. Tract Family.       
 William A. Zeck, a retired New York State judge and political official who was a prosecutor at the Nuremberg war-crimes trials, died on Oct. 26 at his home in Suffern, N.Y. He was 87. At Nuremberg he took part in the prosecution of 23 officials of I. G. Farben, the German company wh
 Abba Eban, the erudite diplomat whose oratory and wit gained admiration and sympathy for Israel during the perilous first 30 years of its independence, died yesterday in a hospital near Tel Aviv, Foreign Ministry and hospital officials said. He was 87. Mr. Eban was an effective nego
 Dr. Clifford Frondel, a Harvard mineralogist who was among the first people on earth to view rocks brought back from the moon, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in Winchester, Mass. He was 95. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his wife said. As a scientis
 William Marrié, a classical dancer of exceptional dramatic power from the National Ballet of Canada who was appearing as a lead in ''Movin' Out,'' the Twyla Tharp-Billy Joel Broadway show, died on Saturday morning at New York Presbyterian Hospital from injuries sustained in a traffic accid
 FARBER-Sol. On November 16, 2002, in Florida. Born in Montreal, Canada, formerly of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, having lived in Century Village-Deerfield Beach, FL, for the past 25 years. One of the founding Directors of the Kings Bay Boys Club of Brooklyn. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Devote
 GIANGOLA-John. On November 16, 2002, age 82. Beloved husband of Elena; faher of Adeline Sheedy (Robert) of Niskayuna, NY; John Giangola III, MD (Laurie) of Winchester, VA; Joseph Giangola, MD (Maureen) of Paramus, NJ; Gary Giangola, MD (Debra) of Bronxville, NY; Daniel Giangola, DVM (Jacque
 KESTNBAUM - Robert D. Age 70. Beloved husband of Kate (nee Trynin). Loving father of Ellyn (John L.) Daniels and Meyer (Cynthia R. Cook) Kestnbaum. Cherished ''papa'' of Emma Kestnbaum Daniels and Benjamin Kestnbaum Daniels. Fond brother in law of Nathan K. (Judith Sutton) Trynin. Devoted s
 KLEINER-Dr. David. Passed away peacefully on November 16, 2002. Beloved husband and best friend of Rita (Steig). Loving father of Louise Forman (Spencer). Proud grandfather of Drew, Robert and Jonathan Forman. Dearest brother-in-law of Shirley and Louis Milender and the late Bernice Benson.
 ROBERTI-Michael F. Of Bayside, NY, on November 16, age 57. Beloved son of Evelyn and the late Louis Roberti. Beloved brother of Susan and Helen. Retired Vice President of JP Morgan Chase in the Data Center. Devoted service to the Boy Scouts of America for over 40 years and awarded the Silve
 SORREL - William Edwin. William Edwin Sorrel, M.D., Ph.D., resident of Scarsdale, NY, and Boca Raton, FL, died November 16, 2002. Survived by his beloved wife Rita and his dear children Ellyn and Michael Zitter, Joy and Michael Goldstein, and Beth Sorrel. Also survived by brother and sister
 STEINKOLER-Alexander H. On November 15, 2002. Beloved and adored husband of Ronnie (nee Brous), dearest and cherished father of Manya, Danny, Jeremy and his wife Trina, son of the late Isaac Steinkoler and Manya Weinstein Steinkoler, loved by his friends, and respected Branch Manager at Pru
 Cho Choong Hoon, who rose to become a prototypical leader of a Korean chaebol, or conglomerate, that included Korean Air Lines, the country's flagship airline, died on Sunday at a hospital here. He was 82. Starting out in the port city of Inchon with a single truck in 1945, the year
 James Coburn, the rugged actor who reveled in playing rakish men of action and slyly humorous villains and overcame a debilitating illness to win an Academy Award for his performance in ''Affliction'' in 1998, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 74. A spokeswoman for Cedars-Sinai 
 Jay D. Hair, a conservationist and former professor who helped build the National Wildlife Federation into a powerful lobby for environmental causes, died on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 56 and had moved there from Washington several years ago. The cause was bone-marrow dis
 Julius Grossman, a conductor and teacher who established the music department at the High School of Performing Arts, and who for nearly 50 years led free orchestra concerts in New York City neighborhoods, died last Tuesday at the North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. He was 90 and l
 CANNON-John ''Jackie''. The Officers, Governors and members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar John ''Jackie'' Cannon on November 17, 2002. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at Moriarity Funeral Home, Park St., Montc
 EBAN - Abba. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University mourn the profound loss of Abba Eban, one of Israel's great statesmen. The Hebrew University and AFHU take pride in the Abba Eban Center for Israeli Diplomacy at the Harry S. Truman Research Institute for the A
 FRAGIN-Sylvia. The extended family of Evelyne and Israel Singer convey its deepest sympathy to Gary Fragin and his family upon the loss of a wonderful mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 GINSBERG-Alan. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners,in acknowleding with sadness the passing of Alan Ginsberg, beloved father of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Donald Ginsberg, MD, Associate Medical D
 GIRSHEK-Leon. Died November 15, 2002. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He will be greatly missed.       
 GLEESON-Martin J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Martin J. Gleeson, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 GRUMBACH-George J. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai Hospital are saddened by the passing of George J. Grumbach father of our esteemed trustee, George J. Grumbach, Jr. The Grumbach family have been committed to supporting health care for m
 KRINSLY-Stuart. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Ken Simon, President KRINSLY-Stuart. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note 
 LUTZER-Martin. Of New York, NY, aged 85, on November 16, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Millicent Joy, beloved uncle of Dena and Harvey Solomon, and greatuncle of Andrew and Julie. He served his country as a dentist in the U.S. Army, and thereafter was engaged in the private practice of 
 RADWELL-Martin. Marty was our friend in college and our friend in life. For almost fifty years we were the beneficiaries of his humor, his humanity & his deep spirituality. For the last 13 of those years, we were witness to his remarkable courage as he fought illness and pain with humor and
 WEXLER - Abraham, 90 years old, passed away on November 17th, 2002. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Beatrice, of 56 years, and his daughters, Annette Schmell and Susan Barriz and his grandchildren Joshua and Rachel. Shiva will be observed at the Wexler residence.       
 Robert L. Roberts, who won a devoted audience for foreign and independent films at his theaters in New Jersey, died on Friday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said George Bernard, a friend. Be
 James Coburn, the rugged actor who reveled in playing rakish men of action and slyly humorous villains and overcame a debilitating illness to win an Academy Award for his performance in ''Affliction'' in 1998, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 74. A spokeswoman for Cedars-Sinai 
 Marvin Mirisch, the quietest of a team of three brothers who helped steer movie production from a studio-dominated system to an independent approach that gave directors creative freedom, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his son, Don, said.     
 DOFT-Emanuel, 96. Of Lawrence, NY. Husband of the late Pauline Passman, father of Alan (Elisabeth), the late Miriam Escott (Barry), Avrom (Arlene), and Barry (Shirlee). A loving grandfather of 14 & great grandfather of 18. Ardent lifetime Zionist and supporter of Israel prior to and since i
 EBAN-Abba. The Charles H. Revson Foundation shares the sorrow of people all over the world at the passing of Abba Eban. One of the last witnesses from the pioneer generation of Israel's founding, he was a brilliant scholar and statesman, always using his unique and towering eloquence on beh
 FRAGIN - Sylvia. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends deep sympathy and heartfelt condolences to distinguished member of Board of Governors Gary S. Fragin, upon the passing of his dear mother. Hamakom Yerachemchem. Avraham Avidan Rav Mallen Galinsky Rav Philip H. Singer Menachem Bar-Shalom       
 KEFALINOS - Bill. Former owner of Lafayette Bakery in Greenwich Village, died on November 18, 2002. He is survived by his wife Kathy, children Theodore Kefalinos and Julia Kefalinos Allen (Wilfredo), grandchildren Willie Jr. and Katy. We will miss him very much. Funeral service Thursday, 6-
 MARKS - Stanley. Died peacefully on November 19. Aged 80. Beloved husband of Evelyn Marks for 60 years. Devoted father to Martin and the late Janis Dorfman. Loving father-in-law to Grace and Michael Dorfman. Grandfather to Matthew, Rory, Andrew Dorfman and Alyssa Scherer, great-grandfather 
 MEYER-Walter. Of New York City, November 19, 2002, age 92, after a short illness. Born Cologne, Germany, February 19, 1910. Devoted and beloved husband for 66 years to Frieda, cherished father of June and Karen, dear fatherin-law of Harry, brother-inlaw of Lotte Meyer, adored opa to Jennife
 TEMPLE-Maurice. Age 67. Died November 19, 2002 of pancreatic cancer. Much adored husband to Janice. Cherished father to Richard and Ellen. Loved and respected father-in-law to Nancy and Barry. Beloved grandfather to Zoe and Jim. Friend and confidante to countless others. A graduate of Pace 
 Dr. Victor D. Herbert, whose experiments on himself 40 years ago showed that a shortage of folic acid found in leafy vegetables and fruits caused a type of anemia, died on Nov. 19 in New York City. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Marilynne. His discovery led 
 James R. Hendrix, who received the Medal of Honor for single-handedly capturing 13 German soldiers and rescuing fellow G.I.'s while under fire in the Battle of the Bulge in World War II, died last Thursday at his home in Davenport, Fla. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family sa
 DOFT-Emanuel. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Emanuel Doft, beloved father of our dear colleague and friend, Beth Israel and Continuum Trustee Alan Doft, Esq
 EBAN-Abba. The Charles H. Revson Foundation shares the sorrow of people all over the world at the passing of Abba Eban. One of the last witnesses from the pioneer generation of Israel's founding, he was a brilliant scholar and statesman, always using his unique and towering eloquence on beh
 FLOMENHOFT-Harvey. We note with such sadness the death of our dear friend Harvey. He fought illness and pain with courage, humor and strength. We were fortunate to be part of his life. We send sincere condolences to his beloved wife Shirley, children and grandchildren. He will be remembered
 HERBERT-Victor D., M.D., J.D. Passed away peacefully on November 19th at his home. He was deeply loved by his five children: Bob, Steve, Kathy, Alissa & Laura, and his four grandchildren, Nicole, Jessica, Andrew and Daniel. He was greatly admired and respected by the worldwide medical commu
 McLAUGHLIN-Harvey Dennis (community activist and proud union member)-Beloved husband of Christine, cherished son of Barbara and the late Harvey F. X., loving brother of Barbara Thompson, Grace Schoen, Mary Schneider and Rita Nicholas. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and g
 SORREL-William E., MD, PhD. The Board of Trustees and Members of The Pan American Medical Association (PAMA) note with deep sorrow the passing of our president and friend Dr. William Sorrel on November 16, 2002. He was an inspired leader, brilliant psychiatrist, distinguished educator and h
 SPANGLER-Lee K. Age 60. Of Manhattan, on November 16th, 2002, after an extended illness. Beloved husband of Jill and devoted father of Glen, Ian and Noel. Art Director for Newsweek magazine for eighteen years. A gifted artist and painter, Lee will be remembered most of all for his kindness,
 TEMPLE-Maurice. Age 67. Died November 19, 2002 of pancreatic cancer. Much adored husband to Janice. Cherished father to Richard and Ellen. Loved and respected father-in-law to Nancy and Barry. Beloved grandfather to Zoe and Jim. Friend and confidante to countless others. A graduate of Pace 
 Ben Plucknett, a king-sized Midwesterner who broke the world record in the discus throw twice within seven weeks in 1981 only to have both records thrown out because of a positive drug test, has died at his farmhouse in Essex, Mo. He was 48. Visitors to his home Sunday found him unc
 Dr. Art Winfree, who combined insights from mathematics and the life sciences to illuminate the workings of nature's biological rhythms, died on Nov. 5 in Tucson, where he was a professor at the University of Arizona. He was 60. The cause was a brain tumor, his colleagues and family
 Dr. Earl L. Warrick, one of the scientists who claimed credit for the creation of the ubiquitous plaything Silly Putty, died last Friday at his home in Loma Linda, Calif. He was 91. Dr. Warrick stumbled on the substance that would become Silly Putty early in World War II, wh
 BERGER-Dr. Jay Manton, of Briarcliff Manor, NY, passed away on November 20, 2002, at the age of 75. Beloved and devoted husband of Eleanor; loved and adored by his three girls, Joan, Robin and Anne; his three sons-in-law, and four grandchildren. He was a sweet and brilliant man and will be 
 BLOOMSTEIN-Charles. On October 28, 2002. The Board and staff of the Mertz Gilmore Foundation note with sadness the death of their longtime colleague, mentor, and friend. From the Foundation's beginning, Charlie served as its conscience and provider of wise counsel. He believed passionately 
 BOOTH-Rev. L. Venchael. The American Bible Society mourns the death of the Rev. L. Venchael Booth, 83, a senior trustee of the Society who died November 16, 2002. Rev. Booth was the longtime pastor of Zion Baptist Church in Cincinnati, OH. He was elected to the Bible Society Board in 1967 a
 COLMAN-Jerome, 93. November 20. Associate Publisher and Senior Vice President New York Law Journal, retired. He leaves behind a wife Glenda, a daughter, a son-in-law and a grandson.       
 DALY-Stanley Jr. Age 81, formerly of Port Washington, Long Island, on November 19th, 2002. Devoted husband of Dr. Barbara Goodman. Loving father of Marian and Paul. A private funeral was held. The family would greatly appreciate donations in his memory to The Alzheimer's Association, Long I
 EISEN-Tibor. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its beloved member, Mr. Josh Eisen. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 ELLIS-Robert. Died on November 21st, 2002. He was one of a kind and will live in our hearts and memories for always: Sybil, Jamie, Julie Ellis-Sandor, Andy, Carol, Carrie, Emily, Sarah and Jacob. A gathering of friends at home, Friday, November 29th, from 4-6 P.M.       
 FIELDS-Donald. Of Sanibel, Fla. Formerly of Teaneck and Ridgewood, N.J. Beloved husband of Leslie (neeHayes). Cherished son of the late Sonny and Ellie Fields and Connie Hayes. Devoted father of the late Chris and Rachel. Dear brother of Robert, Tuju, Stephanie and Regan. Loving uncle of Jo
 FLOMENHOFT - Harvey. The Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Gold Coast/ South Florida Chapter was deeply saddened by the November 18th passing of Harvey Flomenhoft, a long standing Executive Board Member of the Chapter. His friendship and dedication will be greatly missed.       
 FRIEDBERG - Perez. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing in Toronto, Canada, of a deeply cherished friend who, with his beloved wife, Frieda, established and endowed the Perez F. and Frieda Friedberg Chair in Talmud at its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological
 HERBERT-Victor. The Medical Program of the VA Medical Center, Bronx, NY, remembers with affection and respect his many outstanding achievements in science and medicine, his enthusiasm, courage, and total honesty, his loyalty to the VA and his friendship to all of us. Clive Rosendorff, M.D.,
 RINGWOOD-James J. The Board of Directors and Staff of Lighthouse International extend their condolences to his wife, Maureen, and the family, friends and colleagues of James J. Ringwood on his passing. We are profoundly indebted to Jim for his long time leadership role with the Vision Fund 
 SHAW-Chuck. Passed away peacefully October 13, 2002, a few weeks past his 50th birthday. Son of Charles and Theresa Shaw of Ocean City, NJ. Partner of George Hall. Founder of Balloon Bouquets of New York. Forever friend of the Mark Milliken Gallery.       
 SORREL-William E., MD, PhD. The Board of Trustees and Members of The Pan American Medical Association (PAMA) note with deep sorrow the passing of our president and friend Dr. William Sorrel on November 16, 2002. He was an inspired leader, brilliant psychiatrist, distinguished educator and h
 SUHL-Sidney. On November 20th, 2002. Husband of Jean for 67 years. Proud father of Michael. Dedicated and beloved grandfather of Martine and Natalie. Cherished uncle to his nieces and nephews. We will miss him greatly.       
 Prince Alexandre de Mérode of Belgium, who for 35 years led the International Olympic Committee's often ineffective fight against illegal drug use by athletes, died Tuesday in a Belgian hospital. He was 68. Belgian newspapers said the cause was lung cancer. In 1964, Prince 
 Angus Cameron, a former editor in chief of one of America's foremost publishing houses, whose leftist sympathies forced him to resign during the anti-Communist fervor of the 1950's, died on Monday in Charlottesville, Va. He was 93. Mr. Cameron was top editor at Little, Brown, the pu
 Buddy Kaye, a songwriter and lyricist who wrote hits for Perry Como, Frank Sinatra, Dusty Springfield and others, died on Thursday in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where he lived. He was 84. Among Mr. Kaye's songs were ''Till the End of Time,'' written with Ted Mossman, which was based on 
 ARNOLD-William. Passed away peacefully on November 21st, 2002 in his home. Loving husband for 56 years. Devoted father, father-in-law and grandfather. A talented craftsman and astute businessman. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. We love you, Lolly, Steven, Robin, Zachary and Re
 MANNO-Frank J. Jr, 39. Of New Dorp, a certified public accountant and former circulation financial director for The New York Times, died Tuesday in his hotel room in Orlando, FL, while on vacation with his family. Mr. Manno had battled Hodgkin's disease for 18 years. Born in Brooklyn, he wa
 ROSS-Harold K. On November 22, 2002, at his home in New York. Beloved husband of Sharon Ross. Loving father of Peter Ross, Tiffany Bazzoni, Dean Ross and Todd Ross. Adoring grandfather of Daniel and Steven. Dear father-in-law of John Bazzoni. Cherished and adored extended friend of Maria Es
 COLLIER-James M. 10/26/ 47-11/23/01. The Lord will keep you from all harm. He will watch over your life both now and forevermore.       
 Dr. Morris N. Young, an ophthalmologist and major collector whose life was framed by the letter M -- from medicine to magic to mnemonics to music -- died on Nov. 13 in Norwich, Conn. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. He was on the way to Worcester, Mass., for a gathering of magician
 ARNOLD-William. Passed away peacefully on November 21st, 2002 in his home. Loving husband for 56 years. Devoted father, father-in-law and grandfather. A talented craftsman and astute businessman. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. We love you, Lolly, Steven, Robin, Zachary and Re
 BARRIE-George. Died of pneumonia on November 16, 2002 in Aventura, FL. Retired Chairman of the Board of Faberge. Academy Award winning songwriter and producer. He is survived by wife Dorothy, children Richard (Lynn), Caryl Kaplan (Roy) and Craig, brother Milton, ten grandchildren and eight 
 BLOOMSTEIN-Charles. Nonviolent fighter for social justice. Advisor, confidante, and friend to the late human rights activist Bayard Rustin. Rationalist, socialist, mensch. We mourn his death on October 28. His wisdom will continue to guide us. The Bayard Rustin Fund, Inc.       
 FORD-Thomas Patrick. The partners, associates and staff of Shearman & Sterling wish to express their sadness at the passing of their former partner last month in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Ford, a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and Harvard Law School, proudly served in WWII as a Lt. Comm
 HILLMAN-Ernest Jr. Of Fairfield, CT, died at the age of 90 at his home November 20, 2002. Mr. Hillman was born January 11, 1912 in Pittsburgh, PA, the son of Clara I. Gregg and Ernest Hillman. His brother, Richard McLeod Hillman, predeceased him. He is survived by nephews, Richard Gregg Hil
 ITZLER-Michael. Born in Brooklyn, NY on August 22, 1940; died on November 14 in St. John's Hospital in Far Rockaway, New York. Wellloved son of Blanche and Sidney. Dear brother of Louise. May you now find peace at last. Remains will be brought to San Francisco to the home of his family.    
 KAHN-Robert I. The Central Conference of American Rabbis records with deep sorrow the death of Rabbi Robert I. Kahn, our cherished past President, who for 58 years served Congregation Emanu El of Houston as founding Rabbi and Rabbi Emeritus. He was renowned as a learned teacher, eloquent pr
 KENNY-Patrick J. A beloved husband, father, brother, uncle and great friend. Died at his residence in Riverdale, on November 22, 2002. Creator of Kenny's Castaways, a Greenwich Village landmark, where many famous musicians got their start. A family man with a big heart, an appetite for mash
 LEVITT-Justice Howard E. Age 73, died November 22, 2002, in Wilmington, Delaware. Justice Levitt was born 1928 in the Bronx, NY, and upon completion of elementary school was awarded the Roosevelt Medal by the City of New York. He was a graduate of DeWitt Clinton High School (1945), New York
 MARKS-Stanley. Boys Town Jerusalem records with sorrow the passing of a cherished member of its extended family. Stanley's dedicated efforts on numerous fronts enabled the school to fulfill its mission of turning young boys from limited backgrounds into young men with limitless futures. He 
 MARSTON-Albert O. 76, of New York City, peacefully on November 10. Beloved husband of Mary V. Hebb. Fond brother of Liane. Devoted father of Douglas, Jeffrey, Julie and Wendy. Loving grandfather of five. Retired litigator, former Assistant Attorney General in New York City for many years. H
 OESTREICH - Robert. No vember 21, 2002. Owner of Precision Work Inc of Port Washington, NY. Beloved husband of Annette, devoted father of Anita and Jeffrey, loving grandfather of Jeffrey and Robert. Also survived by his sister, Pat Roberts and her husband, Cy, as well as many nieces & nephe
 PHILIBA-Gilbert. Died on November 15, a Renaissance man who enjoyed a distinguished career as freight manager for major airlines. He'll be sorely missed by his loving wife Edna, his brother Allan, his family and friends.       
 PHILLIPS-Roger R. Age 72, died on Tuesday, November 19, 2002 at his home in New Canaan, CT after a long battle with cancer. A resident of New Canaan since 1971, he retired as the chairman and chief executive officer of the Bailey Corporation, a leading manufacturer of engineered plastic com
 ROSS-Harold K. On November 22, 2002, at his home in New York. Beloved husband of Sharon Ross. Loving father of Peter Ross, Tiffany Bazzoni, Dean Ross and Todd Ross. Adoring grandfather of Daniel and Steven. Dear father-in-law of John Bazzoni. Cherished and adored extended friend of Maria Es
 SCHUMAN-Daniel G. Of Martha's Vineyard, MA, and Stuart, FL, entered into rest November 24, 2002. Age 86, retired chairman of Bausch and Lomb Co. Beloved husband of Jacquelyne. Devoted father of sons Joel of Saugerties, NY, and Craig of Overland Park, KS; his daughter, Meredith, of Raleigh, 
 SHAPIRO-Leo. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted Trustee Leo Shapiro who with his wife Gertrude were Founders and Benefactors of the Sam and Esther Minskoff Cultural Center and Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School. To his beloved wife Gertrude, daughter Semoia, son R
 SHEPPARD-Stuart Alan. Passed away peacefully in Miami Beach on November 21, 2002. He was deeply loved by his two children, Melissa and Arthur, his wife Marji, grandchild Emma, sister Gail, mother Phyllis, & stepfather Sidney. We were all proud to be a part of his life. Services are private.
 WEINER-Leon N. We deeply mourn the passing of our great friend Leon N. Weiner. He was a man of enormous passion and intellect. As President of the National Association of Home Builders, he led the organization's support for affordable housing. As Chairman of the National Housing Conference,
 WESSEL-Harry N. Died November 22, 2002, age 81. Beloved grandfather of Max, Lauren, Dan, Elizabeth, and Henry Wessel, father of Peter and Tom Wessel, father-inlaw to Vicki and Marcy. Tomb School valedictorian. University of Pennsylvania, Wharton School. WWII veteran (5th Army). President In
 Roberto Sebastián Antonio Matta Echaurren, known as Matta, whose sometimes nightmarish, hallucinatory paintings made him a premier Surrealist and major artist of the mid-20th century, died on Saturday in Tarquinia, Italy. He was 90 or 91. In later years he split his time among Pari
 CATERINE-Dennis. Age 82, of Merritt Island, FL, passed away Friday, November 22, 2002. Born on August 16, 1920, in Newark, NJ, Mr. Caterine was a longtime resident of New York and Greenwich, CT. He moved to Brevard County in 1979. A lifelong entrepreneur and businessman, he was the owner of
 CROSS-William R. Jr. Of Waccabuc, NY, and Chilmark, MA, died peacefully at home November 22, 2002, at the age of 85, after a long illness. Mr. Cross was the son of the late W. Redmond Cross and Julia A. Cross of New York City and Bernardsville, NJ. He graduated from Groton School in 1937, a
 FORST-Jerry. Beloved husband of Rachel and the late Ruth. Devoted father of Stephen and Robert. Dear brother of George. Loving grandfather of Adam and Tyler. Services Monday, 9:30 AM, Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67 St. FORST-Jerry. The Officers, Trustees and members of Park East Syn
 GOLDBERG-Louis. Age 88, died in Monroe Township, NJ, on November 23, after a long illness. He was born in Englewood, NJ, on December 25, 1913, to Eva and Nathan Goldberg. He was a graduate of Englewood High School and the University of Iowa Dental School, earning a D.D.S. and a M.S. He prac
 GORMLEY-Fred C., Jr. 50, writer, playwright, and artist, died May 19, 2002, in New York City after a fourteenyear struggle with HIV/AIDS. Fred's plays, including American Lesion, Fun with Death, and The Night Larry Kramer Slapped Me Really Really Hard, were performed in New York City and re
 ROSS-Harold K. On November 22, 2002, at his home in New York. Beloved husband of Sharon Ross. Loving father of Peter Ross, Tiffany Bazzoni, Dean Ross and Todd Ross. Adoring grandfather of Daniel and Steven. Dear father-in-law of John Bazzoni. Cherished and adored extended friend of Maria Es
 UNGER-Robert. On November 22, 2002, age 83, died peacefully after a long illness at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Husband of the late Renee Unger and father of the late Keith Unger. Survived by his loving wife Eleanor Doblin Unger, a devoted son Toby Unger, and beloved daughter - 
 ZARCHIN-Dr. Jules. Formerly of Paterson, NJ, and Venice, Florida, died at West Boca Medical Center, Boca Raton, Florida, on November 21, 2002. Dr. Zarchin is survived by his wife of sixtythree years, Sylvia (Katz), three daughters, Gail Ehrens Weisberger, Pat Cirkus, and Biddy Fein, as well
 ZEIG-Irving. Beloved husband of Gaye, loving father and grandfather of Lise, Susan, Rachel, Nicholas and Emma, father-in-law of David and Gary, died on Saturday, November 23, 2002. He was 85 years old. He will always be in the hearts of his family and friends, inspiring us to love learning,
 The Rev. L. Venchael Booth, who had a major role in the founding of the 2.5 million-member Progressive National Baptist Convention Inc., a black denomination based in Washington, died on Nov. 16 at the home of a daughter in Memphis, where he was living. He was 83. Mr. Booth was his 
 Eugene V. Rostow, a legal scholar who helped create Yale Law School's current eminence and later became a vigorous defender of the Vietnam War as a senior State Department official, died today at an assisted-living residence in Alexandria, Va. He was 89. Like his more famous younger
 John Rawls, the American political theorist whose work gave new meaning and resonance to the concepts of justice and liberalism, died on Sunday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, his wife, Margaret, said. She said he had been incapacitated in var
 COLON-Luis W. On November 23, 2002. He is survived by his daughters Teresa, Catherine, Eileen, Jean and Cristina. Dear Daddy, our love will forever be infinite. COLON-Luis. My heart is hurting for the loss of a beautiful friend and great father. My deepest sympathies. Tony Crisano  
 CROSS-William R. Jr. Of Waccabuc, NY, and Chilmark, MA, died peacefully at home November 22, 2002, at the age of 85, after a long illness. Mr. Cross was the son of the late W. Redmond Cross and Julia A. Cross of New York City and Bernardsville, NJ. He graduated from Groton School in 1937, a
 FEUER-Lewis S. 89, of Newton, MA, on Sunday, November 24, 2002. Husband of the late Kathryn J. (Beliveau) Feuer. Father of Robin Feuer Miller of Newton, MA. Father-in-law of Christopher Miller. Grandfather of Abigail, Alexa, and Lulu. Brother of Bernard Feuer and the late Abe Feuer and Anna
 GLUCKSMAN-David N. Of Forest Hills, NY, died peacefully on November 24, 2002 after a brief illness. Beloved and devoted husband of Sondra (Sunny). Loving father of Diane, James, and the late Mark. Grandfather of Deborah. Brother and friend. Proudly served in World War II. Awarded the Bronze
 KAPNER-Jerome. August 7, 1909 to November 22, 2002, of Sarasota, FL, formerly of Longboat Key, FL, Westport, CT and Albany, NY. Devoted son of the late Bessie Rinehimer, and Charles Kapner. Widower of Ruth Minkin Kapner, his great love. Head of the family for: the late Alma Jacobs, sister; 
 NEWBERGER - Kenneth. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary       
 PLEVIN-Murry. Age 93, passed away on Sunday, November 24, 2002 from natural causes. He is survived by daughters Marcia Spier of Hollywood, Fla. and Susan Abbate of Boca Raton, Fla. He graduated New York University intending to become a lawyer, but because of the Great Depression, he had to 
 QUINN-William. The Horace Mann Community records with much sadness the death of William Quinn '40, cherished alumnus and star football player of 1939. Mr. Quinn returned to Horace Mann in 1951 through 1975 as the distinguished Director of Athletics and served with steadfastness, wisdom and 
 UNGER-Robert. On November 22, 2002, age 83, died peacefully after a long illness at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Husband of the late Renee Unger and father of the late Keith Unger. Survived by his loving wife Eleanor Doblin Unger, a devoted son Toby Unger, and beloved daughter - 
 William R. Cross Jr., a retired executive of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company who served on philanthropic and corporate boards, died Friday at home in Waccabuc, N.Y. He was 85 and also had a home on Martha's Vineyard. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said his s
 Joseph E. Slater, who worked on the ''de-Nazification'' of Germany after World War II and was instrumental in making the Aspen Institute an important East-West conduit in the cold war, died on Tuesday at his home in Southampton, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his
 Leon N. Weiner, a Delaware developer and a national advocate of affordable housing for those of modest means and the elderly, died on Nov. 17 in Philadelphia. He was 82 and lived in Kennett Square, Pa. The cause was cardiac arrest, his company said. A third-generation builde
 BRENNAN-Francis William. Born November 18, 1919, youngest child of William J. and B. Agnes Brennan, Frank graduated from Newark's West Side High in 1936, Princeton University in 1940, and Harvard Law in 1947. Predeceased by his wife, Betty, and his son, Kirk, Frank is survived by his daught
 CROSS-William R. Jr. President of The Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation from 1976 until 1996, and a Director from 1955 until 1997. During his many decades of devoted service and drawing upon his years of experience as a banker he helped the Foundation evolve from its origins in 1914, w
 ELLIOT-David M. Died at his home surrounded by his family on November 25, 2002 at age 52. Adored husband of Priscilla Watts, loving father of Sam, Kate and Ben. Devoted brother of Steve, Anne, Edward and Gideon. We'll miss your generous spirit, your exuberance, your guidance and your laught
 FLINGOU-Marc R. Of White Plains, New York. Died on Saturday, November 23, 2002 of cancer at the age of 54. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on February 4, 1948 to Marjorie (Sowerby) and Jean Flingou. He is survived by his wife Judith A. Ranta of White Plains. He is predeceased by his parents and
 GONZALEZ - MILLAN - Xoan. Longtime Spanish and Galician literature professor at Hunter College and the CUNY Graduate Center, died with his wife, Esperanza Caneda Gonzalez-Millan, in a car accident on November 23. He was 51. Mr. Gonzalez-Millan was at Hunter for nearly 18 years, rising throu
 GUERRINI - MARALDI - De metrio. Age 76. Died peacefully at his home in Southampton, N.Y. on November 26, 2002, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Antoinette Sickles Guerrini-Maraldi of New York, his sons Alessandro and Filippo of London, his daughter Vanessa Wilcox of New Yor
 LOVEJOY-Lindsay Alexander, 86. Died at his home in Old Greenwich, Connecticut, on November 25, 2002 after a long illness. He was born on January 18, 1916 in Janesville, WI, and graduated from The Hotchkiss School (1934) and Yale University (B.E. 1938), where he was a miler and cross-country
 MAXFIELD-Edwin D. Age 87, passed away on October 17, 2002. He is survived by wife Ruth; brother, Robert; children, Donna Chimera, Richard and wife, Susan, James and wife, Greta; seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. He graduated from Lafayette College and served in the USAF and
 NAGLER-Harold. Died on November 26th, 2002 at the age of 96. He was a high school biology teacher and science chairman. He loved teaching, science, nature and his family. His ashes will be buried next to those of his beloved wife Dorothy in the town of Lake Luzerne, N.Y. He is survived by h
 POOLE-Charles S., M.D. Died peacefully on his 90th birthday, November 25th in Somers, NY after more than a decade-long courageous and dignified struggle with Parkinson's disease. Born in NYC in 1912, he received his B.S from NYU Heights College, his M.D. from NYU medical College and was a D
 RAWLS - John Bordley, James Bryant Conant University Professor Emeritus, Harvard, died at his home November 24 in Lexington MA. Survived by wife Margaret Fox Rawls, children Anne Warfield Rawls of Beverly Hills, MI, Robert Lee Rawls of Woodinville, WA, Alexander Emory Rawls of Palo Alto, CA
 REGNEY-Noel. 80 of Danbury, CT. Formerly of NYC and Paris, France. November 24, 2002. Composer, pianist and singer. Composer of ''Do You Hear What I Hear'', ''I Sing Noel'', ''Three Wisemen, Wisemen Three'' and ''Dominique''. Survived by his wife, Susan Spiegel-Regney, two sons, Matthieu Re
 SLONEVSKY-Leonard. On November 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Alex and Hara. Devoted friend of Jennese Daniels. We'll miss you very much. Service Wednesday, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory to the Arthritis Foundat
 TAXEL - Manuel. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Madeleine, Joel and Susan, adoring grandfather of Gregg, Samantha, Michael, Alex and Elizabeth, and great-grandfather of Nathan and Zachary, died on November 24 at age 85 at his home in Brooklyn, NY. He served his country with disti
 Edward Bliss Jr., a retired CBS News executive whose writing and editing set standards at the network in the 1940's, 50's and 60's, died on Monday in Washington. He was 90. During a 25-year career with CBS, Mr. Bliss wrote and edited the news summary for Edward R. Murrow's broadcast
 James L. Dutt, a former chairman of the Beatrice Companies -- once a sprawling consumer products conglomerate with brands as disparate as Tropicana orange juice, Playtex undergarments and Samsonite luggage -- died Oct. 28 at his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 77. His death was ruled
 Karel Reisz, a Czech refugee who became a leading director of the British New Wave before making ''The French Lieutenant's Woman'' and other Hollywood dramas, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in London. He was 76. The cause was a blood disorder, said his wife, Betsy Blair,
 BAER-Leslie, M.D. Beloved husband of Jeanne Baer, M.D. Devoted father of Oliver Ernest Baer, Nicholas Arthur Baer and Naomi Rose Preble. Loving grandfather of Jacob Otto and Marlese Elizabeth. Services Friday 11:30AM at Temple Beth El of the Northern Valley, 221 Schraalenburgh Rd, Closter, 
 BREITBART-Morris. Died on November 27, at home, surrounded by his loving family. A Holocaust survivor, and for 50 years, the manager of Ratner's Restaurant on Delancey St, ''Moishe'' was beloved by all who crossed his path. he is survived by his wife of 57 years, Rose, his sons, William and
 GONZALEZ - MILLAN - Xoan. The faculty and staff of Hunter College's Dept of Romance Languages mourn the loss of a great scholar and friend, and his beloved wife. We will alway remember.       
 JACOBS-Herman. Age 90, on November 25, 2002. Beloved and loving husband of the late Berenice, father of Michael and Judith Huff, M.D., grandfather of Ethan. Cherished brother-in-law of Elaine and Robert Shulman and Anne and Lester Klepper. Devoted son of the late Abraham and Ella. A hero to
 LITTLE - William Caswell. Born on November 17, 1917, died November 26, 2002. Of Teaneck, NJ. Formerly of Guttenberg, NJ and NY. Husband of Rose M. (nee Egitton). Father of Patricia Friedman (William) and Kathleen Rosen (Gary). Son of the late James Brady Little and Ange M. Ficker Little. La
 LUSTBADER-Fred. Age 82, of New York, New York and Boynton Beach, FL. Passed away peacefully November 26, 2002 in Florida. Eagle Scout, World War II veteran (awarded the Purple Heart and Bronze Star for service in the Battle of the Bulge), and co-founder of Fabco Enterprises, a retail shoe a
 POOLE-Charles S., M.D., The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and long time friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Pres. William G. Stein, M.D., V.P. Maria L. Padilla, M.D.,
 POPKIN-Herman. The Board of Directors of The American Camping Association records with deep sadness the death of Herman Popkin, visionary, pioneer and leader in the camp experience and cofounder of Blue Star Camps in North Carolina in 1948. Past Board Member and father of Past President Rod
 ROSTOW - Eugene, The Dean and Faculty of Yale Law School mark with profound sadness the passing of our friend and colleague, Eugene Rostow, former Dean and Sterling Professor Emeritus of Law and Public Affairs. His intellect, will, and character were molding forces in the evolution of the m
 SANTANGELO-Dr. George, a resident of Harrison, NY, passed away at home on November 26th in the presence of his beloved family. George, who lived a full life for 85 years, was born on June 9, 1917 in Staten Island, NY. George was the son of Michael and Josephine Santangelo and the youngest o
 TSE-Dr. Donald Yat-Tung, M.D., D.P.H. 86, beloved husband, father, grandfather died November 18, 2002 in CT. A graduate of both Hong Kong Univ. and Toronto Univ., he established himself during his later years in CT and NYC. Life-long member of the AMA, Royal Canadian Military Institute and 
 George Barrie, an executive who not only created the men's fragrance Brut but also produced movies and received two Oscar nominations for his songwriting, died last Saturday in Aventura, Fla., where he lived. He was 90. A former owner and chief executive of Fabergé, the per
 George Christian, the last of four press secretaries for President Lyndon B. Johnson and a witness to the president's agony over racial rioting and the Vietnam quagmire, died on Wednesday night in his hometown of Austin, Tex. He was 75. Mr. Christian, who grew up in Texas, where he 
 John Milton Tassie, a former chief executive who helped build New Jersey-based Lenox Inc. into an international source of fine china, crystal and sterling, died Monday at a hospital in Princeton, N.J.. He was 86 and lived in Princeton. Mr. Tassie, who spent 35 years with the company
 BAER-Leslie, MD. With deep sorrow we note the passing of Dr. Leslie Baer, the Director of the Hypertension Research Program at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Dr. Baer guided the program since its inception 10 years ago and provided care for those who otherwise would not have received
 CROSS-William R. Jr. President of The Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation from 1976 until 1996, and a Director from 1955 until 1997. During his many decades of devoted service and drawing upon his years of experience as a banker he helped the Foundation evolve from its origins in 1914, w
 GUERRINI - MARALDI - De metrio. Age 76. Died peacefully at his home in Southampton, N.Y. on November 26, 2002, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Antoinette Sickles Guerrini-Maraldi of New York, his sons Alessandro and Filippo of London, his daughter Vanessa Wilcox of New Yor
 JACOBS-Herman. Age 90, on November 25, 2002. Beloved and loving husband of the late Berenice, father of Michael and Judith Huff, M.D., grandfather of Ethan. Cherished brother-in-law of Elaine and Robert Shulman and Anne and Lester Klepper. Devoted son of the late Abraham and Ella. A hero to
 KALB-Roland J. His passionate concern for others lives on in those fortunate to have been part of his life. Lore, Linda, Rick, Elizabeth, Julia, Ryan, Alexa and Samantha. We share the sorrow of your loss, but rejoice in the enrichment of so many lives your patriarch has born. The Schweitzer
 KARPA-Morton. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Morton Karpa, husband of Helene Karpa, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton National President       
 OLDHAM-Paul, 47. Of Manhattan. Loving son of Jim and Sara Oldham. Brother, business partner and special friend to all that knew him was found dead Nov. 24 in his Manhattan apartment on the Upper East Side. Paul will always be remembered for his warm heart, loving ways and his quick insightf
 SLUTZKY-Louis, 94. Of Clifton, NJ, formerly of Queens, NY, on November 27, 2002. Beloved husband of 66 years to Laura (nee Slutzkin). Devoted father of Marion Rothenberg (Frank z''ll) and Marc (Cheryl). Loving Grandfather of Adrienne, Jeff and Andrew and Great-grandfather to Karlie. He was 
 YOUNG-Morris, M.D. The members of the Medical Staff of NYU Downtown Hospital are saddened by the loss of Dr. Morris Young. He was a valued member of the medical staff and will be greatly missed by his colleagues and the patients whom he served. Steven Brandeis, M.D. President, Medical Staff
 Dr. Rupert E. Billingham, whose pioneering research into ways to coax the body to accept foreign tissue helped pave the way for organ transplants, died on Nov. 16 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Martha's Vineyard, Mass. The cause was complications o
 Jack Bigel, a top financial and bargaining adviser to many of New York City's most powerful labor unions for decades and a key player in resolving the city's financial crisis in the mid 1970's, died on Thursday in New York. He was 89. The key to Mr. Bigel's influence with the unions
 Lewis Samuel Feuer, a scholar whose career and prolific writings reflected his intellectual journey from Marxist orthodoxy to neoconservatism, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Newton, Mass. He was 89 and most recently lived in Newton and Charlottesville, Va. He was a professor em
 BIGEL-Jack. It is with deepest sorrow that we mourn the passing of a true and cherished friend. His unique insight and perceptive counsel were beyond compare. We shall miss him greatly. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Ruth and devoted family. Dr.'s Marie and Ronald Gade and Family       
 GONZALEZ - MILLAN - Xoan. The faculty and staff of Hunter College's Dept of Romance Languages mourn the loss of a great scholar and friend, and his beloved wife. We will always remember.       
 HALE-Newell Dawson. Age 76, of Pomfret, CT, died on November 27, 2002, at home. Born July 19, 1926 in LaPorte, Indiana, resident of Pomfret Center, CT since 1954. He was an outstanding citizen, father, husband and friend. A graduate of Spartanburg High School, SC, a U.S. Coast Guard veteran
 KALB-Roland J. Born in Vienna, Austria in 1916, died on November 27, 2002. A man of charisma, fortitude, compassion and love. A moving force in healthcare and the ultimate humanitarian. He is survived by his devoted wife of 50 years, Lore, his children Linda and Rick, grandchildren Julia, R
 REINHARDT - Sheldon. On November 29, 2002. Beloved husband of Rosalie (nee Napack). Dear father of Harlan and daughter-in-law Dale. Loving twin brother of Burton Reinhardt and his wife, Diana. Cherished uncle and great uncle. Services Sunday, December 1, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th S
