 Clive Bradley, whose arrangements for steel-drum orchestras in Trinidad and New York City won championships from 1970 to 2005, died on Saturday in Port of Spain, Trinidad. He was 69. He died four days after a stroke, said Rawlston Charles, who owns the store and record label Charlie
 Lewis J. Horowitz, who helped usher in a new wave of high-octane financial trading as chairman of the New York Futures Exchange, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was gall bladder
 CONKLIN--George Taylor Jr. The Board of Directors, officers and associates of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America are saddened by the death of its former CEO and Chairman of the Board, George Taylor Conklin Jr. Ph.D., who retired in 1995 and passed away on November 4, 2005, at th
 FARBER--Irving J., M.D. He fought the good fight and we loved him. Wife Elsie, children Jon, Adam and Jill, sister Viki, grandchildren Matthew, Kate, Steven, Wesley and his daughters-in-law       
 FEINBERG--Arthur W. Cohen Hennessey & Bienstock P.C. and its entire staff mourn the passing of Dr. Arthur Feinberg, the husband, best friend and true love of our founder, Harriet N. Cohen. As one of Arthur's many extended family groups, we will miss and never replace his intelligent nurturi
 HOROWITZ--George Q on November 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Renee. Loving father of Seth, his wife Lori and Robin. Devoted son of Libby. Dear brother of Don, Linda, Ruby and Jackie. George became CEO and Chairman of Everlast Worldwide Inc., in October 2000 after spending over 30 years in th
 HOROWITZ--Lewis. The Department of Pediatrics at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center deeply mourns the passing of Lew Horowitz, a wonderful man and huge spirit, who, as a volunteer, provided his warm heart, his engaging and humorous stories, outlandish hats, popcorn and cookie nights and
 KELZ--Allan. Age 75, on November 30, 2005. Beloved husband of Joyce of 51 years. Dear father of Robin Rudnitsky and Stacey Kelz. Fatherin-law of Dr. Gary Rudnitsky. Cherished grandfather of Seth and Dana. Son of Sol and Diana Kelz. Graduate of NYU. Commercial real estate broker for over 30 
 LAVENDER--Harvey J. On November 30, 2005. Retired Sergeant, NYPD and W.W. II veteran. Husband of the late Ruth and brother of the late Andrew. Survived by his sister Norma Fischer, brother and sister-in-law, Joe and Bev, his lady friend and dancing partner, Connie Ebers and many nieces and 
 PAPRIN--Maurice S. The Staff and Board of Directors of iEARN-USA mourn the loss of a good and committed friend, Maurice Paprin. His boundless energy and contagious enthusiasm inspired us to look for good in life and to work for what is just. We will miss him greatly.       
 VOGEL--Frederic B. On November 29, 2005. Theater Producer On and Off-Broadway, Independent Film Producer. Founder and Director of the Commercial Theater Institute and one of the theatre community's most respected and knowledgeable management advisors. Co-Founder of Broadway Cares/Equity Fig
 YOUNG--Nicholas. The Members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute mourn the loss of their colleague, Dr. Nicholas Young. He was instrumental in the Education Program of the Institute, a highly esteemed teacher and a mentor to many of our present members. His wise counsel and
 WEINER -- Hyman Joseph. Died 25 years ago. We remember his loving and productive life. He will live in our hearts forever. Shirley, Robert, Susan and David, Daniel and friends       
 Dr. Thomas Royle Dawber, who led the revolutionary Framingham Heart Study that identified the major risk factors for heart disease, died Nov. 23 in Naples, Fla. He was 92. He had Alzheimer's disease and was at a long-term care center, said his daughter, Dr. Nancy H. Dawber. 
 Frederic B. Vogel, the founder of the Commercial Theater Institute, a teaching program for prospective Broadway producers, and a longtime expert on theater management, died on Tuesday night at his home in New York. He was in his 70's, but his family could not provide an exact age. T
 Michael A. W. Evans, a photographer whose picture of Ronald Reagan in a well-worn cowboy hat was on the covers of Time, Newsweek and People after Mr. Reagan's death last year, died yesterday at his home in Atlanta. He was 61. The cause was cancer, the National Press Photographers As
 FARBER--Irving J., M.D. He fought the good fight and we loved him. Wife Elsie, children Jon, Adam and Jill, sister Viki, grandchildren Matthew, Kate, Steven, Wesley and his daughters-in-law       
 GILON--Arie Professor. The Board of the Jewish Institute for the Blind Jerusalem mourn the loss of its devoted and most generous Vice President. May his memory be for blessing. Contributions can be made to Jewish Blind Jerusalem, 15 E. 26th St. #       
 HOROWITZ - George. The American Heart Association mourns the passing of our longtime volunteer and New York City board member, George Horowitz. George's unflagging energy and dedication to our mission to save lives from heart disease and stroke will be missed. Our deepest condolences to Geo
 McBRIDE--Joseph A., 86. Of Franklin Lakes formerly of Ridgewood on November 30, 2005. Beloved husband of Wendy McBride (nee Michie). He is predeceased by his first wife, the late Barbara McBride (nee O'Connor)(1994). Devoted father of Terence McBride and his wife Mary of Franklin Lakes, She
 PURCELL--William. 55, Ft. Lauderdale, FL, on November 10, 2005. Beloved son of Robert and Edyth. He will be deeply missed by his eleven brothers and sisters and nieces, nephews and friends.       
 RABINOWITZ--Harry, 78. A dedicated family man and pillar of the Jewish community, a man who touched many lives, died on November 30, 2005. Harry lived a life where generosity and giving to others was his main priority. He lived in Merrick, NY, for 39 years, working as a Partner with S.D. Le
 SCHMIERER--Hy, 86, December 1, 2005. Devoted husband of Horty for 56 years, loving father of Susan and Matthew Silverman & Merri and Harry Bragg. Adored ''Poppy'' of Rachel, Jaime, and Abbey Silverman. Cherished Uncle and Great Uncle to many nieces and nephews. Veteran of the US Army Air Co
 SKALET--Joseph. On November 30, 2005, age 95. Husband of the late Lucile (nee Adels). Father of Steven (wife Linda) Skalet and Barbara Strutin. Brother of Helen Stein and the late Philip Skalet. Grandfather of four, great-grandfather of two. Service Sunday 11:30AM at Zion Memorial Chapel, 7
 VOGEL--Frederic B. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund mourn the loss of our colleague, Frederic B. Vogel. Fred's passion for the theatre was embodied in his commitment to identifying and training emerging producers through the Commercial Theater Institute, as well a
 ZELIKOW--Nathaniel. Attorney at Law. Beloved husband of the late Irene B. Zelikow, father of Sharon L. Sokolowski, father-in-law of George, and grandfather of Shael andJonathan. President Emeritus of the Young Israel of the West Side, Founder and President of Sinai Fraternal Order, and life
 Cornell H. Mayer, a pioneer in radio astronomy who found the first signs of searingly hot temperatures on the surface of Venus, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 83. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Carey Whitehead Mayer. Af
 FREILICHER--Jack. Died November 30 at 89. Beloved husband of Frances. Caring father of Mel, Bruce and wife Nancy and David. Grandfather to Emily and Luc. After a successful career as President of Rite Foam Sleep Products, he enjoyed his retirement in Florida. His warmth, good humor and wit 
 HECTOR--Louis. The Board of Directors of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center notes with sadness the passing of Louis Hector, a longstanding board member and board member emeritus. An elegant and sophisticated man, he loved his Sunday afternoon chamber music concerts and was a loyal 
 MAHONEY--Philip T. On November 19, 2005, of Pawleys Island, SC. Beloved husband of the late Margot M. Mahoney and survived by his wife Agnes Farley Mahoney. Devoted father to Philip T. Mahoney Jr., Dianne M. Hoffman and G. Daniel Mahoney. Cherished brother to Helen M. Gaffigan and Thomas F.
 MARGO--Murray. On December 2. Beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Sari Kushner and Mitch Margo. Loving grandfather of Robert and Brian Kushner and Sam Margo. Murray was a Renaissance man before his time and a family man with social skills beyond compare. A collector of antiques and
 McBRIDE--Joseph A., 86. Of Franklin Lakes formerly of Ridgewood on November 30, 2005. Beloved husband of Wendy McBride (nee Michie). He is predeceased by his first wife, the late Barbara McBride (nee O'Connor)(1994). Devoted father of Terence McBride and his wife Mary of Franklin Lakes, She
 SCHMIERER--Hy, 86, December 1, 2005. Devoted husband of Horty for 56 years, loving father of Susan and Matthew Silverman & Merri and Harry Bragg. Adored ''Poppy'' of Rachel, Jaime, and Abbey Silverman. Cherished Uncle and Great Uncle to many nieces and nephews. Veteran of the US Army Air Co
 SKALET--Joseph, on November 30, 2005, age 95. Husband of the late Lucile (nee Adels), father of Steven (wife Linda) Skalet and Barbara Strutin. Brother of Helen Stein and the late Philip Skalet, grandfather of four, great-grandfather of two and devoted companion of Beverly Green. Service Su
 Peter D. Eimas, a Brown University scientist who found that babies can distinguish different sounds of speech as early as their first month and published his findings in a groundbreaking study explaining how infants acquire language, died Oct. 28 at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 70.  
 Franz Jolowicz, the owner of the former Discophile record shop, a Greenwich Village institution that was for decades a mecca for classical record collectors, from the ardent to the insatiable to the merely obsessive, died on Nov. 8 at his home in the Village. He was 86. The cause wa
 Msgr. Frederick R. McManus, a retired dean of canon law at Catholic University of America who helped draft revisions to the Roman Catholic liturgy at the Second Vatican Council in the 1960's, died Nov. 27 in Boston. He was 82 and lived at the Boston archdiocesan retirement home, Regina Cler
 COLE--Barry G. Suddenly on November 28, 2005, beloved friend of Frances A. Cole, father of Tracy Cole Barker, and Kelly Cole Dobson, grandfather of Allison and Megan Barker. Distinguished Professor of Communications, philanthropist and friend of the arts. His loss will be widely felt in the
 DeLOCA--Cornelius E. The Executive Committee, Foundation Board and staff of the Metropolitan Golf Association mourn the passing of their former President and Chairman on December 1st. Connie DeLoca was more than a dedicated volunteer, he was a friend and leader. His many contributions to th
 FEINBERG--Arthur W. Cohen Hennessey & Bienstock P.C. and its entire staff mourn the passing of Dr. Arthur Feinberg, the husband, best friend and true love of our founder, Harriet N. Cohen. As one of Arthur's many extended family groups, we will miss and never replace his intelligent nurturi
 FREILICHER--Jack. Died November 30 at 89. Beloved husband of Frances. Caring father of Mel, Bruce and wife Nancy and David. Grandfather to Emily and Luc. After a successful career as President of Rite Foam Sleep Products, he enjoyed his retirement in Florida. His warmth, good humor and wit 
 HECTOR--Louis. The Board of Directors of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center notes with sadness the passing of Louis Hector, a longstanding board member and board member emeritus. An elegant and sophisticated man, he loved his Sunday afternoon chamber music concerts and was a loyal 
 KELLEHER--James J. III. September 27, 1952--November 9, 2005. in Brewster, NY. You are always in our hearts. Survived by his loving family.       
 MARGO--Murray. On December 2. Beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Sari Kushner and Mitch Margo. Loving grandfather of Robert and Brian Kushner and Sam Margo. Murray was a Renaissance man before his time and a family man with social skills beyond compare. A collector of antiques and
 NADEL--Bruce. 60, on November 8, 2005. Innovative commercial award-winning film director who developed a distinctive style of tabletop and live action cinematography. Mr. Nadel began his career on the production side of the commercial film industry. He started as an Assistant and protege of
 SCHMIERER--Hy, 86, December 1, 2005. Devoted husband of Horty for 56 years, loving father of Susan and Matthew Silverman & Merri and Harry Bragg. Adored ''Poppy'' of Rachel, Jaime, and Abbey Silverman. Cherished Uncle and Great Uncle to many nieces and nephews. Veteran of the US Army Air Co
 MODZELEWSKI--Zygmunt born Roman Berger, 101, died on November 26, 2005, in Manhattan, New York. He was born near Krakow, Poland, where he attended the Jagiellonian University. During World War II, in great danger, he and his wife and daughter evaded incarceration in the Jewish Ghettos of Po
 Howard B. Gotlieb, a Boston University archivist who cajoled, charmed, wheedled and -- most effectively, he said -- groveled to snare the papers of notables like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Bette Davis, not to mention Fred Astaire's dancing shoes, died Thursday at a Boston hospi
 CASCIEGNA--Jill. On November 25, 2005, Jill Paton Casciegna of Doylestown, PA. Wife of Salvatore; sister of Jon Paton and his wife Wendy; step-mother of Carolyn Connell and her husband Steve and of Steven Casciegna and his wife Barbara; aunt of Dean and Wesley Paton; friend of Marilyn Hardi
 COBRIN--Peter Timothy. 64, of Livingston, on December 3. Beloved husband of Toby (nee Gandel). Devoted father of Pamela Cobrin Warshavsky, Lawrence Anthony Cobrin and father-in-law of Oren Warshavsky and Gena Cobrin. Doting grandfather of Joseph, Sarah, Benjamin, Sydney, and brother of Eliz
 FROST--David, M.D. Public Health Advocate, died in San Francisco at age 95, on Thanksgiving in the company of his devoted family. Born April 13, 1910, in New York City, he attended New York University (BS), St. Louis University (Maryland) and Harvard (MPH). In public health, he served local
 MOSKOWITZ--Ruth. On December 3, 2005, at the age of 88. Beloved wife of the late Sam, loving mother of Harold, and his wife Carol, and Barry and Ellen, dear sister of Irving and Phillip Alexander, adoring grandmother of Jill, Andrew, Alyson and Erica, great-grandmother of nine. Funeral serv
 ROSENTHAL--Marvin. Age 77, died December 4. Loving husband of Elaine, devoted father of Jane Knudsen and the late Lynn Rosenthal. Father-in-law of Chris Knudsen. Devoted grandfather of Bobby, Dana and Kelley. He served in the Korean War. He was with ''The New Yorker'' magazine for 25 years 
 SULLIVAN--Daniel B. Age 65, on December 3, 2005, of New York City and formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Rosemary (nee Tripoli) and devoted father to Daniel Jr., Regan Santangelo, Gregory, Paul and Elizabeth. Brother of Denis of Wyckoff, NJ, and John of Ormond Beach, FL. He will 
 Col. Reginald R. Myers, a retired Marine Corps officer who was awarded the Medal of Honor for leading an assault up an icy Korean hill in late 1950, died Oct. 23 in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 85 and had lived in Jupiter, Fla. His death was confirmed on the Web site of the corps' H
 Herbert L. Strock, a television producer and director who directed B-movies like ''I Was a Teenage Frankenstein,'' ''How to Make a Monster'' and ''The Crawling Hand,'' died here on Wednesday. He was 87. The cause was heart failure after a car accident, according to his daughter, Les
 Liu Binyan, the forceful dissident writer who repeatedly exposed official corruption and openly challenged the Chinese Communist Party to reform itself before and after he was exiled to the United States in the late 1980's, died Monday. He was 80 years old and lived in East Windsor,
 FROST--David, M.D. Public Health Advocate, died in San Francisco at age 95, on Thanksgiving in the company of his devoted family. Born April 13, 1910, in New York City, he attended New York University (BS), St. Louis University (MD) and Harvard (MPH). In public health, he served local, stat
 GOREN--Avram G. The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the passing of Avram Goldstein Goren, father of Trustee, James G. Goren, and grandfather of David Goren, Class of 2006. We will remember Mr. Goren and his family in our thoughts and prayers. Frank J. Carnabuci III Headmaster The Birch Wat
 GRILL--Max. Yeshiva University and Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) mourn the passing at 105 years of our humble giant in good deeds. A Benefactor with his late wife Marion, he named the Max and Marion Grill Deanship at RIETS, and a host of scholarships at the university's 
 HAAS--Peter E. The Board of Trustees, staff, docents, and volunteers of the Skirball Cultural Center, Los Angeles, express our sorrow upon the passing of a founding and pioneering member of the Board of Trustees, Peter E. Haas of San Francisco. Peter was an early champion of the vision of t
 MACK--Gilbert. Temple Israel Lawrence, N.Y., mourns the death of our member and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Dr. Jay H. Rosenbaum, Rabbi Garrett L. Gray, President       
 MALAM--Samuel Robert, 87. Formerly of White Plains, NY, died in Worcester, MA on November 27, 2005. Husband of his late wife, Jeannette for sixty-one years, loving father and grandfather, accomplished architect, builder, and artist, he was a beacon of intelligence, integrity and humility. H
 MOLYNEUX--Peter E. Of New York City, formerly of Old Greenwich, died November 21, 2005. He was 45 years old. Mr. Molyneux attended Greenwich High School and Drew University and was a member of the Economics Honor Society. He was Chief Financial Officer of Northbridge Capital Holding Company
 MOSKOWITZ--Ruth. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Moskowitz, beloved mother of Harold Moskowitz, an esteemed leader whose deep historic commitment and passionate concern for our General Insurance Division strengthens our abi
 MURPHY--John M. Of Breezy Point, NY, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, and Rockville Centre, on December 4, 2005, at the age of 84. Born April 18, 1921, John was the youngest of four boys. He was a decorated veteran of WWII serving in Europe. Founder and President of East America, Inc., a commodity
 ROSENTHAL--Marvin. We join the Rosenthal family in mourning the loss of our friend and colleague, Marvin Rosenthal. Marvin was a cherished member of the CBRE family for the past six years and a highly regarded member of the New York City real estate community. Marvin was full of vigor and o
 RUDNER--Albert H., DDS. In his 98th year beloved husband of the late Gladys Rudner for 66 years, loving father of Jane and Maurice (Reese) Sherman and Judy and Jerry Kessel. Adored grandfather of Cathy and John Fiebach, Susan and Les Morgenstern, Danny and Kristin Stiebel and Lynn and John 
 SHAPIRO--Frank, 60. On December 3, 2005, after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved husband of Carol; devoted father of Lisa and her husband Craig Berry, and Amy Shapiro; doting grandfather to Max and Alex Berry; and brother to Alan Shepherd. Services for Mr. Shapiro will be 
 SULLIVAN--Daniel B. Age 65, on December 3, 2005, of New York City and formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Rosemary (nee Tripoli) and devoted father to Daniel Jr., Regan Santangelo, Gregory, Paul and Elizabeth. Brother of Denis of Wyckoff, NJ, and John of Ormond Beach, FL. He will 
 Peter Edgar Haas Sr., who with his brother Walter engineered the explosive growth of the family business, Levi Strauss, into the world's biggest maker of brand-name jeans, died Saturday at his home in San Francisco. He was 86. His death was announced by Levi Strauss & Company, which
 Frederik Jacques Philips, the former president of the Dutch electronics giant that bears his family's name, who was credited with saving hundreds of Jews during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands in World War II, died on Monday. He was 100. The cause was pneumonia and complicati
 George F. Baker III, the retired financier who has been lost since last Thursday, when the small plane he was flying disappeared off Nantucket, and is now presumed to be dead, was the senior trustee of the George F. Baker Trust, a family philanthropy. Mr. Baker was 66 and lived in Houston, 
 BAKER--George F. III, 66. Of Houston, TX, formerly of New York City, on December 1, 2005. Eldest son of George F. Baker, Jr. and Frances Drexel Munn Baker. Beloved husband of Sarah. Devoted father of George and his wife Anne, and Joanna. Stepfather of John Roady and his wife Shawn and David
 DRIMMER - Harold. The Board of Trustees, the Foundation's Board of Directors, and the grateful student body of Westchester Community College grieve for their distinguished friend, benefactor, and leader. For more than two decades, Harold Drimmer served devotedly and successfully as Chairman
 FALLON--John W. In his ''Pompila'', Robert Browning charged: No work begun shall ever pause for death! His words, however, might impede so profound a tribute for a lesser figure on the horizons of our journey. Not, however, for John Fallon, Board Chairman (Retired) of both Daytop Village, I
 GOREN--Avram G. The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the passing of Avram Goldstein Goren, father of Trustee, James G. Goren, and grandfather of David Goren, Class of 2006. We will remember Mr. Goren and his family in our thoughts and prayers. Frank J. Carnabuci III Headmaster The Birch Wat
 GRILL--Max. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished member, Max Grill. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 KANE--Melvin C. On December 5, 2005. Beloved husband of Shelley Phillips. Devoted and loving father of Max. Dear brother of Rona Maurer. Much loved by his extended family and friends. Brilliant scholar and educator who taught at Stuyvesant HS for over 30 years. Services Thursday 11:45 AM at
 LAUFER--Harry. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Harry Laufer. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey J. Siegel, Pres. Solomon S. Greenspan, Secy.       
 MALAMENT--Edward. Died December 4, 2005 of Alzheimer's disease age 88. Husband of the late Ida (Lupion). Survived by beloved children Linda and David Greenbaum and granddaughters Rebecca and Amanda. Also survived by his devoted companion Sonia Matz & her family. For the last 4 years he was 
 McDANIEL--Paul W. Of Port Chester, NY died December 4, 2005. Born January 31, 1914, in Montgomery, W.VA. Graduated from WVU, served in WWII and Korea as Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy. He worked for Union Carbide Corporation for over 30 years as a Senior Industrial Hygiene Associate. He is 
 MULLEN--Benjamin Joseph, 95, on December 3, 2005. Husband of the late Catherine. Father of Doran, Joseph, Michael and Thomas. He was a resident of Palm Beach, FL for30 years, where he was an active member of the Pundits, the Beach Club, the Old Guard, the English-speaking Union, and the Soc
 MURPHY--John M. Of Breezy Point, NY, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, and Rockville Centre, on December 4, 2005, at the age of 84. Born April 18, 1921, John was the youngest of four boys. He was a decorated veteran of WWII serving in Europe. Founder and President of East America, Inc., a commodity
 ROSENTHAL--Marvin. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Marvin Rosenthal. Our condolences to his wife Elaine and their family. Marvin was part of the bedrock of the New York real estate community. He was a pleasure to work with and a gentleman. We will miss him. Stephen B. Sieg
 WILLIAMS--Melvin Thurston 1935-2005 died peacefully at home, surrounded by his wife and three children, on Friday, December 2 after an eightmonth battle with lung cancer. Born on March 20, 1935, Mel was the son of the late Allton Thomas and Dorothea Danver Williams of Darien, Connecticut. T
 Edward L. Masry, a flamboyantly pugnacious lawyer who won millions from a utility in a toxic pollution suit and was portrayed by the actor Albert Finney in the 2000 movie ''Erin Brockovich,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 73. The cause was complication
 Vice Adm. Frederick L. Ashworth, a Navy weapons specialist who was the crewman in control of the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, in World War II's climactic strike, died Saturday at a hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 93 and lived in Santa Fe, N.M. The cause was complicat
 Harold D. Shapiro, a partner in the law firm of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal and its first chairman, died last Thursday in Evanston, Ill. He was 78 and lived in Wilmette, Ill. His death was announced on the Web site of the firm. The cause was a ruptured aneurysm. Mr. Shapir
 BAKER--George F. III. The NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College mourn the tragic death of our beloved and esteemed friend and Trustee George F. Baker. A creative and uniquely talented man of strong commitment and outstanding intellect, Mr. Baker was elected Governo
 FALLON--John W. In his ''Pompila'', Robert Browning charged: No work begun shall ever pause for death! His words, however, might impede so profound a tribute for a lesser figure on the horizons of our journey. Not, however, for John Fallon, Board Chairman (Retired) of both Daytop Village, I
 KAHN--Max Lewis. 82, died of cancer on Tuesday, December 6, 2005 at his home in Purchase, NY. Beloved husband of Marcella Kahn, to whom he was married for 58 years, devoted father of Lawrence Kahn, Philip Kahn and Joan Kahn; and loving grandfather to Daniel, Lisa, Alexander, Jeffrey and And
 KANE--Melvin C. On December 5, 2005. Beloved husband of Shelley Phillips. Devoted and loving father of Max. Dear brother of Rona Maurer. Much loved by his extended family and friends. Brilliant scholar and educator who taught at Stuyvesant HS for over 30 years. Services Thursday 11:45 AM at
 KORZENIK--Sidney S. Died December 6 at age 96. Husband of Rabbi Emily Faust Korzenik, father of David, Jeremy, Deborah and Joshua, grandfather of Alexander, Hannah, Daniel & Benjamin. He was adored by all of them and is for them the model of a humane intellectual, and virtuous life. He was 
 MELLER--Zack. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the passing of Zack Meller, son of our dear friend and colleague, Adrianne (Goldberg) and Shaun Meller. Zack touched us all in his short life with his strength and courage. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his parents and their f
 OPPENHEIMER--Edgar D. Jr. Passed away peacefully at 80 at his home in St. Petersburg, Florida, on December 5, 2005. He leaves his beloved wife of 54 years, Virginia Layton, his brother David E. Oppenheimer, his four children, Frances Oppenheimer, William L. and Barbara Oppenheimer, Carol Op
 ROSEN--Joseph. December 7, 2005. Husband of Myrtle (nee Katz) of Philadelphia, Pa. Father of Connie (Fod T.) Vick and Dr. Robert J. (Antonella) Rosen. Grandfather of Claudia and Andrew. Relatives and friends are invited to services Thursday, 1PM Joseph Levine and Son Memorial Chapels, 7112 
 SCHWARTZ--Jack. The Semel Society records with sorrow the loss of our esteemed member Jack Schwartz. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Henrietta and children Jill and James. Martin I. Semel, President       
 Bud Carson, the renowned National Football League strategist who devised the Pittsburgh Steelers' Steel Curtain defenses of the 1970's, died Wednesday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 75. The cause was emphysema, his wife, Linda, said. In a quarter-century as a defensive
 , the fashion director of Bloomingdale's, whose instinct for trends was so keen and enthusiasm for promotion so vigorous that he frequently upstaged even his more famous designers, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications 
 ALEXANDER--Brooke, 93, on December 3, 2005. Beloved and dedicated husband of the late Elizabeth Burnett Alexander (Betty). He was predeceased by his daughter, the Reverend Brooke Alexander, and is survived by a son, Breckenridge Alexander, 3 grandchildren, Katherine Dodge, Alexander Leddy, 
 COHEN--Bernard L. On December 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Pauline for over 57 years. Adored father of Diane & Jeffrey Schuman, June & Michael Cohen. Loving grandfather of Jamie & Matt, Allison, Kate, Amy, Nikki, & Stephanie and his aide Concordio. Co-owner of Baron & Port Lincoln Mercury wi
 KAHN--Max Lewis. 82, died of cancer on Tuesday, December 6, 2005 at his home in Purchase, NY. Beloved husband of Marcella Kahn, to whom he was married for 58 years, devoted father of Lawrence Kahn, Philip Kahn and Joan Kahn; and loving grandfather to Daniel, Lisa, Alexander, Jeffrey and And
 LAUFER--Harry. The Board of Governors and Members of the Elberon Bathing Club mourn the passing of our longtime member and dear friend, Harry Laufer. His smile, wit and wry sense of humor will be sorely missed. Robert Fagenson, President Jane Guadagno, Secretary       
 O'NEILL--Terence P. On December 7, 2005 of Rye, NY. Born in Cork City, Ireland. At age 26 he opened his first restaurant, The Green Derby, and went on to own many successful restaurants. He was also involved in the development of other business enterprises, including ventures in real estate
 OPPENHEIMER--Edgar D. Jr. Passed away peacefully at 80 at his home in St. Petersburg, Florida, on December 5, 2005. He leaves his beloved wife of 54 years, Virginia Layton, his brother David E. Oppenheimer, his four children, Frances Oppenheimer, William L. and Barbara Oppenheimer, Carol Op
 SOONG--Fu-Yuan. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation mourn the death of Soong on December 5, 2005. A gifted composer of chamber music, opera and symphonic work, Soong's pieces have been performed in halls throughout the United States including Lincoln Cen
 TISCH--Preston Robert. We mourn with unspeakable sorrow the loss of our very dear friend. Bob was a brilliant business icon, a dedicated public servant and a deeply committed philanthropist. We will remember him with great affection and love. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his devoted 
 VAN WILSON--Phillip, of New York City, died unexpectedly on December 5th. Mr. Wilson worked as a writer, photographer, commercial fisherman, and lighting designer. He directed Off-Broadway plays, and did lighting at New York's Fillmore East and the Woodstock Festival. He taught in the theat
 RUTTENSTEIN -- Kalman, ''Kal.'' Senior Vice President, Fashion Direction. June 9, 1936--December 8, 2005. Kal has been part of our family for 28 years. He lived life on the edge of fashion and entertainment. He discovered. He taught. He mentored. He knew what was hot before it was. He loved
 COHEN--Bernard L. On December 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Pauline for over 57 years. Adored father of Diane & Jeffrey Schuman, June & Michael Cohen. Loving grandfather of Jamie & Matt, Allison, Kate, Amy, Nikki, & Stephanie and his aide Concordio. Co-owner of Baron & Port Lincoln Mercury wi
 KAHN -- Max Lewis. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Max Lewis Kahn, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President       
 SHROG--Maurice. On his 85th year. Beloved husband of Nettie. Dear father of Franklin and Renata Shrog, Susan and Steve Schwartz. Adored grandfather of Toni Anne, Eric, Micha, Ariel and great-grandfather of Crystal and Joseph. Loving brother of Lena and Adelle. A lifetime passion for the sta
 STRZELCZYK -- Bruce Joseph, on December 7, 2005. Devoted husband of Maria for 28 years. Loving father of Christine (Joseph), Paul, Catherine, Karen & Susan. Also survived by his parents Joseph & Grace & brother James. Alumni of Xavier HS Class of '70 and Pace University Class of '73. Bruce 
 RUTTENSTEIN -- Kalman, ''Kal.'' Senior Vice President, Fashion Direction. June 9, 1936--December 8, 2005. Kal has been part of our family for 28 years. He lived life on the edge of fashion and entertainment. He discovered. He taught. He mentored. He knew what was hot before it was. He loved
 Robert Sheckley, a writer of science fiction whose disarmingly playful stories pack a nihilistic subtext, died yesterday in Poughkeepsie. He was 77 and lived in Red Hook, N.Y. The cause was complications of a brain aneurysm, said his former wife, Ziva Kwitney. Mr. Sheckley wrote mor
 Roger Shattuck, a polyglot scholar and writer whose many subjects ranged from the emergence of modernism to whether some knowledge might be too dangerous to know, died on Thursday at his home in Lincoln, Vt. He was 82. The cause was prostate cancer, his daughter Patricia said.      
 Tommy Hanneford of the Royal Hanneford Circus, known as ''the funniest man on horseback,'' died here on Monday. He was 78. His death followed a short illness, said his wife, Gertrude, who was also co-owner and a producer of the circus, which they formed with Mr. Hanneford's sister i
 Artine Artinian, a noted manuscript collector and scholar of French literature who was immortalized as a fictional character by two of the most prominent American writers of the 20th century, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Lantana, Fla. He was 97 and had lived for many years in Palm Beach. 
 Eugene J. McCarthy, the sardonic Senate dove who stunned the nation by upending President Lyndon B. Johnson's re-election drive amid the Vietnam War turmoil of 1968, died early yesterday. He was 89. A courtly, sharp-witted presence in capital politics for half a century, Mr. McCarth
 ALEXANDER--Brooke, 93, on December 3, 2005. Beloved and dedicated husband of the late Elizabeth Burnett Alexander (Betty). He was predeceased by his daughter, the Reverend Brooke Alexander, and is survived by a son, Breckenridge Alexander, 3 grandchildren, Katherine Dodge, Alexander Leddy, 
 BAKER--George F. III. The NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College mourn the tragic death of our beloved and esteemed friend and Trustee George F. Baker. A creative and uniquely talented man of strong commitment and outstanding intellect, Mr. Baker was elected Governo
 COHEN--Bernard L. On December 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Pauline for over 57 years. Adored father of Diane & Jeffrey Schuman, June & Michael Cohen. Loving grandfather of Jamie & Matt, Allison, Kate, Amy, Nikki, & Stephanie and his aide Concordio. Co-owner of Baron & Port Lincoln Mercury wi
 CURRY--John (Jack). Of Sarasota, FL. Born February 9, 1920 in Buffalo, NY. Died December 6, 2005 in Sarasota. Predeceased by his cherished wife of 51 years, Elizabeth. Loving father of Christopher, Paula and Barbara. Loving brother of Barbara, Mary, Margaret and Alexia. A retired Foreign Se
 FIORE--Peter P., M.D. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, recently of Wyckoff, NJ, died at the age of 97, on Friday December 9, 2005. Dr. Fiore was born on February 4, 1908, on the Lower East Side and graduated Dewitt Clinton H.S., Syracuse University and Medical School. He completed a residency in P
 FREEMAN--Helen. The Graenum Berger Bronx Jewish Federation Service Center expresses profound sorrow at the passing of Helen Freeman, beloved wife of our devoted Management Committee member and officer, Melvin D. Freeman. May the Almighty comfort Mel, his daughters, Phyllis & Susan and the e
 GILON--Arie. New York University and the School of Continuing and Professional Studies mourn the loss of Arie Gilon, Professor Emeritus of Foreign Languages, on Nov. 29, 2005. Prof. Gilon was a member of the NYU Community for the past 45 years and was recognized for both teaching excellence
 HOLMES--Brother Edmund, O.S.F. Died on Friday, December 9, 2005. Brother was born on August 11, 1908. He was a Fransciscan Brother of Brooklyn from 1929 until his death. Brother was a professor at St. Francis College, Brooklyn Heights, NY, for many years and a counselor at Camp Albernia in 
 KORYN--Andrew, M.D. Age 74, on December 2 in La Jolla, CA. Born 1931 in Amsterdam. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted and loving father of Ramona and Daniel. Dear brother of Ted Koryn. He was very much loved by his family and friends. Prior to retirement he practiced medicine in La Jolla, C
 KORZENIK--Sidney S. Died December 6 at age 96. Husband of Rabbi Emily Faust Korzenik, father of David, Jeremy, Deborah and Joshua, grandfather of Alexander, Hannah, Daniel & Benjamin. He was adored by all of them and is for them the model of a humane, intellectual and virtuous life. He was 
 LANDOVITZ--Jack B. Died December 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Tilda and loving father of Steven and Karen. Decorated WWII veteran. Retired Vice President Macy's NY. Board member Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel of Riverdale. Services Sunday, 1 pm, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave.
 LITWIN--Thomas is deeply mourned by the Advisory Council of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University. He was a man of effervescent good humor, a love of life, and a fondness for magic tricks, a personality that charmed everyone he met. Combined with his warmth and optimism w
 LYNSTER--Richard W. On December 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Pat (nee Flood). Loving father of Katie and Coleen. Dear brother of Timmy. Fond brother-in-law of Sherrod Lynster, Ginny and Tom Flood and Marilyn and Rich Closs. Most beloved uncle of Teig Lynster, Tim, Kara, Ellen, Amanda and Meg
 RUDNER--Albert H., DDS. In his 98th year beloved husband of the late Gladys Rudner for 66 years, loving father of Jane and Maurice (Reese) Sherman and Judy and Jerry Kessel. Adored grandfather of Cathy and Jon Fiebach, Susan and Les Morgenstein, Danny and Kirstin Stiebel and Lynn and John F
 SAUL--Eli E. On December 7, 2005 at age 92. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Devoted father of Dr. Barry Saul, Cheri Saul, and father-in-law of Ellen Saul. Proud grandfather of Dr. Karen Miller (Howard), Dr. Michael Saul, and Lauren Gidseg (Dr. David). Adored great-grandfather of Parker, 
 SHAW - KENNEDY -- Bart J. Kane Lodge No. 454 F.& A.M. mourns the loss with great sorrow of our esteemed brother on December 6 at his home in Charlottesville, VA. He was a Life Member for 55 years who loved to return to NYC and Kane Lodge frequently. He shall be missed and remembered. A memo
 SOONG--Fu-Yuan. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation mourn the death of Soong on December 5, 2005. A gifted composer of chamber music, opera and symphonic work, Soong's pieces have been performed in halls throughout the United States including Lincoln Cen
 WILLIAMS--Melvin Thurston 1935-2005 died peacefully at home, surrounded by his wife and three children, on Friday, December 2 after an eightmonth battle with lung cancer. Born on March 20, 1935, Mel was the son of the late Allton Thomas and Dorothea Danver Williams of Darien, Connecticut. T
 WOLINETZ--Leonard. The medical center's world-wide leadership expresses its sincerest condolences to Harvey Wolinetz, Brenda Schlanger and Jean Zucker on the loss of their cherished father and her dear brother. A quintessential and hardworking ''family'' man who enjoyed life, Mr. Wolinetz s
 PETERSON-BUENGELER-Karl Paul Passionate intellectual, educator, musician, chef and dedicated family man, died November 30, 2005 at Hackensack University Medical Center, Hackensack, NJ. Born May 25, 1948 in Wuerselen, Germany, he died at age 57 following a long and brave struggle against lym
 Richard Pryor, the iconoclastic standup comedian who transcended barriers of race and brought a biting, irreverent humor into America's living rooms, movie houses, clubs and concert halls, died Saturday. He was 65. Mr. Pryor, who had been ill with multiple sclerosis, suffered a hear
 Bob Richardson, a fashion photographer of the 1960's and 70's who transmitted the excitements and regrets of a generation of free spirits before disappearing into a shadow land of mental illness and homelessness, died on Dec. 5 at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. He died of natural
 Donald Martino, the Pulitzer Prizewinning American composer widely respected for atonal works that combine intellectual rigor with expressive freedom, died on Thursday aboard a cruise ship in the Caribbean en route to Antigua. He was 74. The cause was cardiac arrest following compli
 Eugene J. McCarthy, the sardonic Senate dove who stunned the nation by upending President Lyndon B. Johnson's re-election drive amid the Vietnam War turmoil of 1968, died early Saturday. He was 89. A courtly, sharp-witted presence in capital politics for half a century, Mr. McCarthy
 BILLIG - Robert. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President       
 BONARDI--Leo E. Of Bronxville, on December 9, 2005. Loving father of Cristina and Claudine Bonardi, devoted grandfather of Sterling and Wyatt. He had worked in the hotel business for many years. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, between the hours of 6-8 pm
 CLOHERTY -- Thomas Pa trick. 37, of Gouldsboro, ME, formerly of South Salem, NY, December 8, 2008. United States Fish and Wildlife Officer. Survived by his wife Mary Catherine (nee Conley), their children, Myles, Grace, Conan and Aidan, his mother Helen (nee Wagner) Cloherty of South Salem,
 GINSBURG--David Mark. On December 8, 2005, age 70, of River Vale, NJ, and East Hampton, NY, formerly of Newton, MA, and Oberlin College. Beloved husband of Susan, devoted father of daughters Lisa and Wendy, son-inlaw Avi, and adoring grandfather of Jacob. Above all else, he was the rock of 
 HARRON--Paul F. Jr. Cable television pioneer Paul F. Harron, Jr. died on December 8, 2005 at the University of Pennsylvania's Intensive Care Unit in Philadelphia, after a brief battle with lung cancer. He was 63. Mr. Harron was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Harron Communicati
 HOLMES--Brother Edmund, O.S.F. Died on Friday, December 9, 2005. Brother was born on August 11, 1908. He was a Fransciscan Brother of Brooklyn from 1929 until his death. Brother was a professor at St. Francis College, Brooklyn Heights, NY, for many years and a counselor at Camp Albernia in 
 LICHT--Louis F. Jr. December 6, 2005, of Southbury, CT, formerly of Brookville, LI, and West Pawlet, VT. Beloved husband of Dorothea I. Licht and devoted father of Louis F. Licht III, Gary R. Licht and Indira Garner. Fond grandfather of five and greatgrandfather of three. He will be remembe
 PRYOR--Richard. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club are saddened by the death of their beloved member, Richard Pryor. He was the consummate comedian who dared to break the rules and rise to become one of the most revered entertainers in the world of show business. He was 
 RUSSO--Anthony C. (Tony), 88, a retired New York City Director of Labor Relations, and a resident of Flushing, Queens, passed on December 8, 2005. Russo was one of the last living members of the LaGuardia ''Career Service'' recruited into City Service in 1936 during the administration of Ma
 SCHWAM--Marvin A. 63, on December 10, 2005. Beloved father, grandfather and friend. He is survived by son Frederic, daughter-in-law Samantha and grandsons Chad and Jonah. He is survived by son Matthew and daughterin-law Jillian. He was also survived by his dear friend Brad Lamm. He was a un
 WALLACE--Emmett. Of Easton, CT, died on December 9, 2005. He would have been 82 on December 14. Devoted husband of the late Jean Wells Wallace and loving father of Kim Aanonsen of Greenwich, CT, Tina Kopelman of Wellesley Hills, MA, Adrianna Bonelli of Merritt Island, FL, and Andrew Wallace
 Richard Pryor, the iconoclastic standup comedian who transcended barriers of race and brought a biting, irreverent humor into America's living rooms, movie houses, clubs and concert halls, died Saturday. He was 65. Mr. Pryor, who had been ill with multiple sclerosis, suffered a hear
 Ernest Schwiebert, an architect and planner whose lifelong passion for fishing led him to write influential books on piscatorial matters like how trout perceive insects -- all the better to make lures to catch them -- died on Saturday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 74. The ca
 GROSS--Jerome B. Beloved husband of Barbara-Ruth Thackston Gross. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., Thursday, December 15th, 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. with service Friday 9:30 AM. $(6$)GROSS--Jerome B. Farewell to Jerry. His place in my heart remains cons
 HARRON--Paul F. Jr. Cable television pioneer Paul F. Harron, Jr. died on December 8, 2005 at the University of Pennsylvania's Intensive Care Unit in Philadelphia, after a brief battle with lung cancer. He was 63. Mr. Harron was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Harron Communicati
 HEYMAN--Milton. Age 84, on December 11, 2005. Most beloved husband of Ruth for 591/2 years. Adored father of Neil and Janna Heyman, Sharon Heyman and Barry Zitser, Nancy and Russell Wohl. Loving grandfather of David, Larry, Jamie, Rochelle, Brad, Taryn and Samantha. He leaves behind his dea
 LICHT--Louis F. Jr. December 6, 2005, of Southbury, CT, formerly of Brookville, LI, and West Pawlet, VT. Beloved husband of Dorothea I. Licht and devoted father of Louis F. Licht III, Gary R. Licht and Indira Garner. Fond grandfather of five and greatgrandfather of three. He will be remembe
 MARDER--John Gerald (Jerry), 78, of New York, East Hampton, and Anguilla B.W.I., died peacefully at home in NYC on December 10th after a brave and inspiring fourand-a-half-year struggle with pancreatic cancer. Son of the late Rhea and Joseph T. Marder, D.D.S., Jerry was an advertising execu
 MENSCH--Homer R. Bassist and pedagogue, 91, died at home. He was Chairman of the Bass Department at the Juilliard School, and served on the faculty of the Manhattan and Mannes Schools of Music, Yale, Rutgers, Dalcroze School, Queens College, and Catholic University. Assistant Principal Bass
 ORNSTEIN--Dr. D. Edward, 92. Of Riverdale, NY. Formerly of Bay Ridge. December 10, 2005. Loving husband of Frances Malin and the late Florence Kahn. Father of Lorraine, Frances; stepfather to Stephanie and Margaret. Adored by all his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. He will be missed 
 RUTTENSTEIN--Kal. June 9, 1936--December 8, 2005: Distinguished colleague, close confidant. He had guts, glamour, intuition and intellect. For 35 years he was my cherished friend. My deepest sympathies to his beloved aunt Cee Cee (Cecelia) Karnofsky and his dearest uncle Charlie (Charles) R
 SANDOR--Gyorgy. The Juilliard School is deeply saddened by the death of Gyorgy Sandor, one of the great pianists and teachers of our time. A member of The Juilliard School faculty since 1982, he championed contemporary composers and was a major figure in the profession as a teacher and a ju
 SEMEL--Abraham L. The Semel Society records with sorrow the passing of our esteemed senior member, Abraham Semel. We extend heartfelt condolences to his children Peter and Bernice, his grandchildren and family. Martin I. Semel, President       
 SILFEN - Perry. Pearl's adored Perry left us December 11, 2005. Beloved son of Sarah and William, beloved uncle, great and great-great uncle, and so many friends. Graduate of CCNY 1938. Lt. in WWII. Married to one woman, his Pearl, for 63 years. IJ Morris, Dix Hills, Wednesday, December 14t
 SPERLING--Irving. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member, Irving Sperling. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President       
 WALLACE--Emmett.Born Brookline, MA December 14, 1923, died December 9, 2005, the youngest of six children born to Doretta (Lowenstein) and Arthur Wallace. A graduate from the Browne and Nichols School and received his Bachelor's degree from Cornell University, his Master's degree from The H
 ALCINDOR -- Ferdinand L. Father of NBA legend and Hall of Famer Kareem Abdul Jabbar, died on December 9 at 3:00 P.M. EST at Coney Island Hospital in Coney Island, NY, from organ failure after a long bout with senile dementia. He was 86. A decorated member of the NYPD and veteran of the Unit
 Gyorgy Sandor, a pianist who studied with Bartok and remained a champion of his music throughout a long career as a performer and teacher, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Michael Sandor. Mr. Sandor was born in Bu
 Harold Raymond Newman, former chairman of Public Employment Relations Board of New York State and a behind-the-scenes catalyst in many labor negotiations with public employees, died on Nov. 25 in West Palm Beach, Fla. A resident of Lake Worth, Fla., he was 84 and formerly lived in Albany.  
 Dr. Morton Birnbaum, a physician, lawyer and mental health advocate who worked to establish and expand rights for mentally ill patients, died on Nov. 26 at Cabrini Medical Center in New York. He was 79 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. The cause was a stroke, his family said. D
 DONOHUE--Donald Stephen, December 11, 2005. Beloved husband of Jeanne. Loving father of Tracy and Terence. Cherished grandfather of Kristina, Kylie, Aidan, Grace and Lauren. Caring brother of Mary Clark. Loving uncle of numerous nieces and nephews. He will be deeply missed by all who knew a
 FALLER--Elliot. 73 on December 13, 2005. Beloved husband of Barbara and the late Rita Faller. Devoted father of Noel and Jill, Samantha and Scott, Craig and Jennifer. Adoring Poppy of Danielle, Sammy, Toby, Jesse and Cole. Brother and brother-inlaw of Dr. Hugh and Diane Unger, Mona and Arth
 GOLDBERG--Seymour ''Sy''. Shortly after his 84th birthday. Beloved husband of Micki. Loving father of Jay Goldberg and Michael and Suzy Appelbaum. Adored grandfather of Sydney and Mia. Dear uncle of Stefan and Eileen Gorkin and Mitchell and Sandy Gorkin. Services Wednesday, 10:30am, Platt M
 GROSS--Jerome B. Beloved husband of Barbara-Ruth Thackston Gross. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., Thursday, December 15th, 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. with service Friday 9:30 AM. $(6$)GROSS--Jerome B. April 20, 1920--December 11, 2005. Devoted and belove
 HARRON--Paul F. Jr. Cable television pioneer Paul F. Harron, Jr. died on December 8, 2005 at the University of Pennsylvania's Intensive Care Unit in Philadelphia, after a brief battle with lung cancer. He was 63. Mr. Harron was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Harron Communicati
 MARDER--John Gerald (Jerry), 78, of New York, East Hampton, and Anguilla B.W.I., died peacefully at home in NYC on December 10th after a brave and inspiring fourand-a-half-year struggle with pancreatic cancer. Son of the late Rhea and Joseph T. Marder, D.D.S., Jerry was an advertising execu
 MARTINO--Donald. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be mourned by the world of music.       
 MELTZER--Gary. Of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on December 11, 2005. He worked as a pressman at The New York Times since 1991. Survived by his father Allan Meltzer, his mother Gladys Smith and her husband Edward Smith, brother Robert Meltzer and his wife Dottie Meltzer, sister Carolyn Novello 
 MENSCH--Homer R. Bassist and pedagogue, 91, died at home. He was Chairman of the Bass Department at the Juilliard School, and served on the faculty of the Manhattan and Mannes Schools of Music, Yale, Rutgers, Dalcroze School, Queens College, and Catholic University. Assistant Principal Bass
 MILES--Philip. Love forever to Philip Miles, adoring husband of Estelle, incredible father, outrageous grandfather, dearest friend to so many. One of the greatest, dynamic press agents defining an era all but gone. From big bands (Artie Shaw, and many others) to '40's movies (MGM) to the he
 SALSBERG--Richard Marc on December 12, age 60, of Montvale, NJ. Beloved husband of Andi; loving father of Brian, Corey and Jamie; devoted father-in-law of Abbie and Sandy; adored grandfather of Ari; dear brother of Judy. He was a partner at Scarinci & Hollenbeck, a Lyndhurst based law firm.
 SANDOR - Gyorgy. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with great sadness the passing of the renowned pianist Gyorgy Sandor on Friday, December 9 in New York at the age of 93. Mr. Sandor was a highly valued member of our Steinway Artist family beginning in 1944; a sixty-one year association of
 CUNNINGHAM--William T. 63, of Denville died on December 4, 2005 at Morristown Memorial Hospital. Husband of 32 years to Janice D. Cunningham nee Dolan, of Denville. Also surviving is his mother Nellie S. Cunningham of Chatham, a brother, Robert, of Newtown, PA. and three nieces and a nephew
 SCHWIEBERT -- Ernest G. The American Museum of Fly Fishing mourns the passing of Ernest G. Schwiebert. Ernie was a remarkable friend, a staunch supporter and a respected trustee of our institution since its inception in 1968. There can be no doubt that the formation, development and healthy
 GROSS--Jerry. We mourn the passing of a devoted friend who we loved and respected, who shared with us his incredible joy of living with music and song. May he rest in peace. Herbert, Frank and Carol Feinberg       
 Robert F. Newmyer, a prominent independent-film producer whose credits include ''sex, lies and videotape'' and the ''Santa Clause'' movies, died on Monday while on location in Toronto. He was 49 and had homes in Los Angeles and Telluride, Colo. Mr. Newmyer, a lifelong asthma suffere
 Anthony C. Russo, a former director of labor relations for the City of New York, died last Thursday in Queens. He was 88 and lived in Flushing, Queens. His death was announced by the Quinn-Fogarty Funeral Home in Flushing. Mr. Russo entered the civil service through the exam
 Heinz Heinemann, an industrial chemist who helped develop methods of transforming coal and natural gas into gasoline, died on Nov. 23 at a hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 92. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Heinemann, a specialist in preparing chemical cata
 John Langstaff, who founded the ''Christmas Revels,'' the long-running seasonal pageant of traditional music, dance and theater that plays in Boston, New York and other cities around the country, died on Tuesday in Basel, Switzerland. He was 84. The cause was a stroke, said Alan Cas
 ADLER--Herbert S., 63. Undaunted by the vicissitudes of life, Herbert Adler flourished. He selflessly gave of himself to scores of friends, family members, coworkers and even random people he happened to meet in delis, dry cleaners, and fancy balls. His untimely passing leaves a void that c
 CARRUBBA--Robert William. 71, former vice president of academic affairs at Fordham University and Latin Scholar, died on Monday, December 12 at his home in New City, New York. Mr. Carrubba is survived by his wife of 40 years, Joanne Carrubba and his four children Robert, Maria, Peter, and C
 FALLER--Elliot. 73 on December 13, 2005. Beloved husband of Barbara and the late Rita Faller. Devoted father of Noel and Jill, Samantha and Scott, Craig and Jennifer. Adoring Poppy of Danielle, Sammy, Toby, Jesse and Cole. Brother and brother-inlaw of Dr. Hugh and Diane Unger, Mona and Arth
 GROSS--Jerome B. Beloved husband of Barbara-Ruth Thackston Gross. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., Thursday, December 15th, 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. with service Friday 9:30 AM. $(6$)GROSS--Jerome B. April 20, 1920--December 11, 2005. Devoted and belove
 McCARTHY - Eugene. He stood up...and something happened. Thanks Senator. From your 1968 Volunteers       
 NEWMYER - Robert. Inde pendent producer, died at 49. The Board of the Gordon A. Rich Memorial Foundation (GAR) mourns the loss of one of its founding members, Robert ''Bobby'' Newmyer. Bobby was a wonderful family man, a prolific independent film producer, a great friend and a tireless supp
 SANDOR - Gyorgy. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with great sadness the passing of the renowned pianist Gyorgy Sandor on Friday, December 9 in New York at the age of 93. Mr. Sandor was a highly valued member of our Steinway Artist family beginning in 1944; a sixty-one year association of
 GROSS--Jerry. We mourn the passing of a devoted friend who we loved and respected, who shared with us his incredible joy of living with music and song. May he rest in peace. Herbert, Frank and Carol Feinberg       
 Dr. William G. Speed III, a physician and researcher at Johns Hopkins who helped establish migraines and other severe headaches as legitimate medical disorders and developed medicines to treat them, died on Nov. 15 at Greater Baltimore Medical Center. He was 87. The cause was conges
 ADLER--Herbert S., 63. Undaunted by the vicissitudes of life, Herbert Adler flourished. He selflessly gave of himself to scores of friends, family members, coworkers and even random people he happened to meet in delis, dry cleaners, and fancy balls. His untimely passing leaves a void that c
 CLARK--Selden ''Sully'' B. Former Senior VP at N.W. Ayer died Monday, December 12, in Scottsdale, AZ. Mr. Clark is survived by his sons Selden of Houston, TX and Randall of Scottsdale, AZ. Donations in lieu of flowers can be sent to Nassau Hockey c/o Doug Farr 109 Stony Brook Rd. Hopewell, 
 FISHBEIN--Edward. 86, died December 15th in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Born in Brooklyn, he graduated from Boys High and USC. He served as a captain in the US Army for five years during WW II. He owned and operated Foam Products, Inc. and the Empire Staple Corp in the Bronx, NY. He was a longt
 FREIDSON--Eliot died December 14th at the Laguna Grove Zen Hospice in San Francisco. He leaves his wife, Helen Giambruni, his children, Jane and Matthew Freidson, daughter in-law RachelBurr, grandchildren Sam, Molly, Charlie and Conrad, and sisters Adele Feldman and Ruth Kavesh. A distingui
 FRIEDMAN--Sanford, 79. On December 13, 2005. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Betty; his three children, Steven, Kathy and Richard; and his brother, Arnold, as well as his four grandchildren, Chanel, Kristina, Alex and Andy. He lived in Boca Raton, FL following his retirement from hi
 GROSS--Jerome B. Merrill Lynch mourns the passing on December 12 of Jerry Gross, whose 59-year career at Merrill Lynch took him from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange to a seat on the firm's board of directors. Jerry loved his work and loved to help others. He was a friend to all, an
 KRIST--Peter Christopher. Age 86, of Westport, CT, died Wednesday, December 14, 2005 at his home. He was the husband of 59 years of Vede Makarion Krist. Born in Ansonia, CT August 23, 1919, Mr. Krist was the son of the late Nicholas and Marianne (Vasil) Krist and was a longtime Westport res
 LEVIDOW--Richard D., Esq. His 74-year path ran from Queens, NY, via Cornell to Yale Law, 1955. Widowed in 1988 after retiring from 30 years at his Manhattan firm, Richard followed his dear son, Bjorn, to Seattle, where he found his true calling as a public defender. He loved the Knicks, ten
 NEWMYER--Robert F., 49, On December 12, 2005. Beloved and adoring husband of Deborah Jelin Newmyer, doting father of Sofi, Teddy, James and Billi, of Los Angeles, CA. Also survived by his loving parents, James and Virginia (Ginger) Newmyer of Washington, DC, his dear sisters, Elsa Newmyer (
 SCHEINBERG--Louis, M.D., 95. Of Stamford, CT, on December 12, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Edith Scheinberg. Loving father of Hal (Elissa), Paul (Suzy), Phyllis (Harvey) Jay, Judith (Seth) Lerner. Dr. Scheinberg is also survived by twelve adoring grandchildren and four great-grandchild
 William Proxmire, a political maverick during 32 years in the Senate who crusaded against government waste and irritated presidents and lawmakers from both parties because of his contempt for the mutual back-scratching most politicians engage in, died yesterday in Sykesville, Md., about 40 
 James Ingo Freed, an architect and partner of I. M. Pei, whose own buildings ranged from the provocatively somber United States Holocaust Memorial Museum to the sprawling crystal palace of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, died Thursday at his home on Gramercy Park in Manhattan. He was
 John Spencer, the Emmy Award-winning actor who played the shrewd, craggy White House chief of staff on the NBC drama ''The West Wing,'' died yesterday morning in Los Angeles, four days before his 59th birthday. He had a heart attack Thursday night and was taken to Olympia Medical Ce
 CARR -- Frank William, passed away at his home in Palm Beach, FL on December 15, 2005. He was 94 years old. Born December 9, 1911 in Judsonia, AR, he was one of seven children. Mr. Carr graduated from high school in Farmington, IA in 1928, from the University of Pennsylvania in 1932 with a 
 CHWATSKY--Milton Stuart. On December 16, 2005 at the age of 54. Loving son of Doris and Joseph. Beloved brother of Daniel and the late David. He was a survivor who lived with dignity inspite of physical challenges. Services Sunday 1:45pm at Gutterman's, 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre
 DILLON--Robert J., 61, died peacefully at home on December 16 after a short illness. Beloved husband of Phyllis and father of Alexander, Ph.D. Anthropology, Columbia University, 1976. Fund-raising executive for non-profits, most recently, Edison Schools, Inc. A lover of classical music, he 
 GROSS--Jerry. We mourn the passing of a devoted friend who we loved and respected, who shared with us his incredible joy of living with music and song. May he rest in peace. Herbert, Frank and Carol Feinberg       
 HUTSON--Frank A., Jr. Attorney Frank A. Hutson Jr., 88, of Providence and Little Compton, RI died Sunday, September 11, 2005 in Providence, RI. He was the husband of Jean (Crobaugh) Hutson and the late Catherine ''Kay'' B. (Halsey) Hutson. Born in New York, NY a son of the late Atty. Frank 
 ZUCKERMAN--Sidney, M.D., 87. On December 14 in Boca Raton, Fl. Beloved husband of Irene, his wife and partner for 60 years. Born in New York City, he graduated from Stuyvesant High School, Columbia College and New York Medical College. A Captain in the Army in World War II, he was a promine
 Rodney Whitaker, a writer best known by one of his many pen names, Trevanian, who was the only writer of airport paperbacks to be compared to Zola, Ian Fleming, Poe and Chaucer, died on Wednesday in the West Country of England. He was 74. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary 
 Jack Anderson, whose investigative column once appeared in more than 1,000 newspapers with 40 million readers, won a Pulitzer Prize and prompted J. Edgar Hoover to call him ''lower than the regurgitated filth of vultures,'' died yesterday. He was 83. The cause was Parkinson's diseas
 Marvin A. Schwam, who made it a year-round business to prepare for Christmas -- and Hanukkah and Kwanzaa -- as the founder of American Christmas Decorations Inc., died on Dec. 10 at his home in the Chelsea neighborhood in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was bladder cancer, said his 
 CHWATSKY--Milton Stuart. On December 16, 2005 at the age of 54. Loving son of Doris and Joseph. Beloved brother of Daniel and the late David. He was a survivor who lived with dignity inspite of physical challenges. Services Sunday 1:45pm at Gutterman's, 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre
 DILLON--Robert J., 61, died peacefully at home on December 16 after a short illness. Beloved husband of Phyllis and father of Alexander, Ph.D. Anthropology, Columbia University, 1976. Fund-raising executive for non-profits, most recently, Edison Schools, Inc. A lover of classical music, he 
 FREED--James Ingo. On December 15, 2005. Renowned architect and partner at Pei Cobb Freed and Partners. Beloved husband of the late Hermine. Father of Dara Michaella Freed and her husband Niels Thorsen and grandfather of Haakon Zev Freed-Thorsen. His impact upon those who knew and loved him
 HAUSMAN--Alvin. May 31, 1923 to December 13, 2005; of Pembroke Pines, Florida. Beloved husband of Gloria, loving father of Marc and Bill, devoted brother-in-law of Janet Zagon, David & Audrey Robbins and dear uncle to his nieces and nephews, awardwinning architect in New York City for more 
 KLEIN--David F. Noted illustrator and longtime resident of Brooklyn Heights, died at 87, December 9. He is survived by his wife Betsy, sister Pauline Ashley and her family.       
 NEWMYER--Robert F., 49, On December 12, 2005. Beloved and adoring husband of Deborah Jelin Newmyer, doting father of Sofi, Teddy, James and Billi, of Los Angeles, CA. Also survived by his loving parents, James and Virginia (Ginger) Newmyer of Washington, DC, his dear sisters, Elsa Newmyer (
 SCHEINBERG--Louis, M.D., 95. Of Stamford, CT, on December 12, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Edith Scheinberg. Loving father of Hal (Elissa), Paul (Suzy), Phyllis (Harvey) Jay, Judith (Seth) Lerner. Dr. Scheinberg is also survived by twelve adoring grandchildren and four great-grandchild
 WAGNER--Jerome. A true and kind friend, a wonderful human being. He will be sorely missed. Isaac and Doris Russo       
 WHITCOME--Dr. Philip J. It is with deep regret that the Managing General Partners, Advisory Board, Investors and staff of NGN Capital mourn the passing of their esteemed colleague Dr. Philip J. Whitcome. A friend for over 25 years and a valued counselor to us all. He will be sorely missed. 
 WILE--J. The sun has set, but his day was not done. Jane Kalmus Venetian Gravestone Marker       
 ZUCKERMAN--Sidney, M.D., 87. On December 14 in Boca Raton, Fl. Beloved husband of Irene, his wife and partner for 60 years. Born in New York City, he graduated from Stuyvesant High School, Columbia College and New York Medical College. A Captain in the Army in World War II, he was a promine
 GOLDRING--Frederick Martin passed away suddenly Saturday, December 10, 2005 in Fresno, CA. He was a good and loving friend and we will miss his loyal and cheerful manner, we send condolences to his marvelous wife Cookie and his children, Wendi and Neil Steinman, Stacy Goldring, Michael and 
 LIVINGSTONE--Curtis Stephen. Curtis Stephen Livingstone of Sleepy Hollow, NY died on December 16, 2005. He was 51 years old. Survived by his wife Laurie Ann; his children Dylan Thomas age 6 and Sean William age 4. He was Senior Vice President of Security Architecture for Citigroup, New York
 CLARK--Selden ''Sully'' B. Former Senior VP at N.W. Ayer died Monday, December 12, in Scottsdale, AZ. Mr. Clark is survived by his sons Selden of Houston, TX and Randall of Scottsdale, AZ. Donations in lieu of flowers can be sent to Nassau Hockey c Doug Farr 109 Stony Brook Rd. Hopewell, NJ
 Robert B. Luce, a former editor and publisher of The New Republic who founded his own book publishing house, died on Nov. 29 in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 83. He died in a nursing home, his family said. Mr. Luce, known as Bob, began his career working for magazines, taking over at The 
 Sydney Leff, a commercial artist who was almost certainly the last surviving illustrator of sheet music from the golden age of Tin Pan Alley, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 104 and had lived for many years in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Leff's son-in-law Alfred M
 ADLER--Benjamin H., DPM. Age 93, of Whitestone, NY. Husband of the late Anne Greenfield Adler. Loving father of Charles and Peggy, Elliot and Helen. Devoted grandfather of Rachel and Julian. For 50 years he cared for his patients with creativity and dedication. He had the ability to see the
 CARGO--William Ira (Bill). Age 88, on Tuesday, December 13, 2005, of Columbia, MD. Beloved husband of Margaret ''Margot'' Grace Ludwig Cargo for more than 67 years, died at the Gilchrist Center for Hospice Care in Baltimore, MD, following a brief illness. He is survived by one son, David Pa
 EARLY--Tracy. Free-lance religious journalist, Dec. 16, of complications from pneumonia. Wrote hundreds of articles for Catholic News Service, Religion News Service, Christian Science Monitor, Baptist Standard, Christianity and Crisis, New World Outlook, and many others. His wide circle of 
 FRIED--Daniel. On December 15, 2005. Loving husband of Adele for 50 years. Devoted father of Roy, David and their wives, Debby and Judy. Beloved brother of Miriam Fine (deceased) and Arthur Fried. Adored Papa of Michelle, Marisa, Cara, Adam and Audra. Beloved uncle. Alumnus of Bronx High Sc
 GLEICK--Donen. 81, died December 17. He was the devoted husband of 52 years to Beth, beloved father of James, Peter, and Elizabeth, and grandfather of Daniel, Harry, Jeremy, Margaret and Julia. He was a lawyer in New York City for 50 years, most recently at Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hayes & H
 GROSS--Robert. December 17, 2005, at the age of 78, loving husband of Gloria for 54 years, devoted father of Donald, Kenneth, Jeffrey, Elizabeth, grandfather of Lisa and Noah, son of George and Anna Gross, brother of Alice Gross Newhouse and Gerald Gross, father-in-law of Su Kwak and Don Hu
 ISHIKAWA - Rokuro. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Dr. Rokuro Ishikawa, who has been a devoted friend and colleague for the past twenty years. He served as honorary trustee and was also chairman--and in recent years chairman emeritus--of the Mus
 JOHNSON--Albert Edward, Ph.D. Educator, philosopher, mentor, business executive, civil leader and philanthropist, passed away peacefully, with his loving wife and family at his side, on December 15, 2005, after a courageous and graceful battle with lung cancer. Dr. Johnson, born in Gibralta
 KEARNEY--Peter. Formerly of New York City, died peacefully December 15, 2005, in Arizona, at the age of 97. May he rest in peace.       
 MARCUS--Michael. 86, Lieutenant WWII, sales engineer, accomplished actor. Survived by wife Nell, son Stephen and wife Eileen, son Charles and wife Cherie, grandchildren Benjamin and Hannah, and stepdaughter Gwyn and husband Stan Jones. Loving and beloved, he did not ''go gentle into that go
 WEINSTEIN -- Arnold M. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 WOLOHOJIAN--Jon Andrew. Of NYC and Saugerties, NY. July 26, 1961 to December 17, 2005. Beloved son of John and Anita. Cherished brother of Michael and Lucine, nephew of Florence, Rose and Gregory, cousin of Gabrielle, Stephan, Lauren and Eric. We will never forget his miraculous way of ligh
 T. Edward Hambleton, the gentlemanly theatrical producer who was a founder of the Phoenix Theater, the trailblazing Off Broadway institution that helped develop the careers of actors, writers and directors for three decades, died on Saturday night in Baltimore. He was 94 and lived in Cockey
 Tahsin Ozguc, an eminent Turkish archaeologist whose digs in Anatolia documented the intermingling of Bronze Age cultures and commerce in what is now central Turkey, died on Oct. 28 in Ankara. He was 89. His death was announced on the Web site of Ankara University, but was only rece
 Barry Halper, who began collecting autographs as an 8-year-old hanging around the Yankees' minor league ballpark in Newark and went on to assemble the nation's most acclaimed private collection of baseball memorabilia, died Sunday at a hospital in Livingston, N.J. Mr. Halper, who lived in N
 Miller Upton, who during 21 years as president of Beloit College found innovative and widely imitated ways to maximize the college's educational and financial resources, died yesterday at his home in Fontana, Wis. He was 88. The college, in Beloit, Wis., announced his death.        
 ANDERSON--Jack. PARADE magazine mourns the loss of a dear friend and colleague. In addition to his long and illustrious career as a Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper columnist, Anderson was the Washington bureau chief for PARADE, penning more than 200 articles on politics and world issues si
 FREED--James Ingo. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt by the world of architecture.       
 GROSS--Robert. December 17, 2005, at the age of 78, loving husband of Gloria Lipson Gross for 54 years, devoted father of Donald, Kenneth, Jeffrey, Elizabeth, grandfather of Lisa and Noah, son of George and Anna Gross, brother of Alice Gross Newhouse and Gerald Gross, father-in-law of Su Kw
 GROTHEER--George J. 86, died December 17. A 50 year resident of Katonah, he is survived by his loving wife Selma, his three children, Alan, Laurence and Lisa and six grandchildren. He was predeceased by his sister Louise and his eldest son George Jr. His successful career with Mobil Oil Cor
 HALPER--Barry. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Barry Halper, on December 18, 2005. Services will be held on Tuesday at B'nai Jeshurun, 1025 South Orange Avenue, Short Hills, N.J. at 11AM. We extend our heartfelt 
 HAMBLETON--T. Edward. On December 17. Beloved husband of Merrell Hopkins Hambleton, devoted father of Linda Hambleton Panitz, Susan Hambleton, Edward Hambleton, Mary Hambleton, Mark Hambleton and the late Anne Brooks Crawford Hambleton. Also survived by seven grandchildren and five great gr
 JOHNSON--Albert Edward, Ph.D. Weill Cornell Medical College of Cornell University mourns the passing of our dear friend, Dr. Albert Edward Johnson, beloved husband of Dr. Madelyn M. Antoncic, our esteemed Overseer. Together with Madelyn, Dr. Johnson was a steadfast supporter of the Medical 
 MELTZER--Joseph, longtime resident of Stamford, Ct. Died on December 19, 2005 in Stamford Hospital. He was 90. Loving father, beloved grandfather. Husband of Lillian Meltzer. He is survived by his son Gordon, daughterin-law Dorothy, grandson Jordan and friend Elaine Tashman. Joe defended hi
 PAGE--Patrice Dominique. Humanitarian aid worker and Executive Director of Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) in Canada, on December 12, 2005 at age 33. His loss is mourned by his father, Andre Page, and Andre's partner, Micheline Harbec; his sister, Natalie Page; his girlfriend, Stacy Baker; a
 PESKIN--Ira. Longtime resident of Lido Beach, NY. Died on December 15, 2005, at age 78. Beloved husband of Marilyn, devoted and loving father of Jill and Jeffrey, loving grandfather of Michael and David, devoted and loving son of Gussie and Isaac Peskin, and loving and caring brother of Rut
 ROIPHE--Dr. Herman. We mourn the passing of our longtime esteemed col league, Dr. Herman Roiphe. His innovative work on gender identity in infancy remains influential. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Paul Rosenbaum, M.D., Pres. NY Psychoanalytic Soc./Inst.       
 TREVAS--Seymour. On December 17, 88 years old, after a long, rich life and a brief illness. The son of Anna and David Trevas, brother of Rita, he was born in The Bronx, raised in Far Rockaway, and graduated from Columbia University. He was the loving husband of the late Doris Trevas and che
 Vincent Gigante, who feigned mental illness for decades to camouflage his position as one of the nation's most influential and dangerous Mafia leaders, died yesterday at the United States Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Mo. He was 77. Mr. Gigante was serving a 1
 Alan Shields, whose radiantly colored, sewing-machine stitched, three-dimensional paintings made him prominent in the New York art world of the 1970's, died on Tuesday at his home on Shelter Island, New York. He was 61. Mr. Shields was being treated for emphysema and died in his sle
 ALLISON - Benjamin. Al stead, N.H., 80, formerly of New York, passed away December 18, 2005. Ben was the son of Dr. Benjamin and Ruth (nee Hovey) Allison. He is survived by his partner Wijnandus Geurds of Alstead, N.H., his sister Mary Millett of Southbury, CT. & his brother Huntly Allison 
 BJOZE--Jack. Passed away peacefully at home on December 16, 2005. Predeceased by his wife, Ann, cherished father of Judy and Jane, dear grandfather of David, Debby, Jesse, and Michael. Beloved partner of Victoria, proud comrade of The Veterans of The Abraham Lincoln Brigade. We will miss yo
 HAMBLETON--T. Edward. On December 17. Beloved husband of Merrell Hopkins Hambleton, devoted father of Linda Hambleton Panitz, Susan Hambleton, Edward Hambleton, Mary Hambleton, Mark Hambleton and the late Anne Brooks Crawford Hambleton. Also survived by seven grandchildren and five great gr
 LEBOWITZ--Jay. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Helen and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 POWERS--Frederic B., Jr., 72, died at his home in Larchmont, New York on Tuesday, December 20, 2005. Frederic Powers, Jr. was born in the Bronx in 1933 to Irene and Frederic Powers, Sr. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Virginia Van Deventer, four sons Christopher, Jeffrey, Stephen, F
 TULCHIN - Stanley. The Board of The American Academy of Dramatic Arts notes with great regret, the passing of its distinguished colleague and friend, Ted Tulchin. A member of the Board of The American Academy of Dramatic Arts and its Treasurer for many years. He will be sorely missed. Sam D
 WHITE--Thomas S. Jr., 79. Of Green's Farms, Connecticut and Willsboro, New York, died Friday afternoon, December 16, at Bridgeport Hospital. Mr. White was a graduate of Peekskill Military Academy and Princeton University, Class of 1948, with a BA in psychology. At Princeton, he was a member
 DANGUILLECOURT - Sergio. The Manhattanville College community mourns the loss of one of its most dedicated and beloved alumni and trustees, Sergio Danguillecourt, and his wife, Jacqueline Kriz Danguillecourt, who died on December 19, 2005. Few individuals have so consistantly lived the coll
 Swami Jagdishwaranand, a prominent Hindu spiritual leader in New York City who was responsible for establishing several temples here, died last Thursday at the Geeta Temple in Elmhurst, Queens. The swami, who founded the temple more than 30 years ago and made his home there, was 71.        
 William J. Oswald, a scientist who pioneered ways to use algae to address immense human problems -- including treating sewage, increasing food supplies, generating energy and facilitating voyages into deep space -- died on Dec. 8 at his home in Concord, Calif. He was 86. The cause w
 Don Caswell, a veteran copy editor in the culture, style and foreign news departments of The New York Times, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 65. The cause was complications of emphysema, said his brother-in-law, Dale Franz. Mr. Caswell, who joined the 
 Jim Ostendarp, who coached at Amherst for 33 years and once held the record for most coaching victories in the history of New England small-college football, died Dec. 15 at the Soldier's Home in Holyoke, Mass. He was 82. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his fam
 John D. Laupheimer, who oversaw the virtual doubling of players' earnings as commissioner of the Ladies Professional Golf Association during the 1980's amid inroads from a newly popular senior men's tour, died Monday in London, where he had lived for the past year. He was 75. The ca
 Joseph L. Owades, a biochemist whose recipe for a light beer, among other contributions to the science of brewing, made him a leader in the industry, died Friday at his home in Sonoma, Calif. He was 86 and also had a home in San Francisco. The cause was heart failure, his family sai
 CASELLA--Rev. Thomas A., C.M. religious superior of the Vincentian Community at Niagara University and Provincial Director of the Northeast Province of the Daughters of Charity, died December 20, 2005 in St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 60. Father Casella is survived by two sisters, B
 COSGRIFF -- Stuart, M.D. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University Medical Center mourn the passing of our respected friend and colleague, Dr. Stuart W. Cosgriff, Consultant Emeritus at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Clinical Professor Emeritus in Medicine at Columbia Univers
 CROTTY--Edward Owen, age 64, on December 20, 2005. Son of the late William E. Crotty and Thelma Mullen Crotty. Brother of William Mullen, Tim and Helen Lee Crotty, Betty Ann Ory, Pat Palmer, Mary Noel Ignal, Susan Michlik and the late Eileen (Sister Mary Thelma, RSM) and Wilma Crotty. He wa
 DIMOND--Thomas. Born January 24, 1916, of New York, NY, died on Sunday, December 18, 2005. Mr. Dimond was the son of George A. and Jessie Kennedy Dimond; brother of Jessie K. Dimond (deceased), Jane Dimond (deceased) and Patricia Pfeiffer; uncle of Lisbeth Pfeiffer. Mr. Dimond attended Prin
 ENGORON--Malcolm W., Sr. Passed away peacefully December 21st, 2005 on his 89th birthday. Beloved husband of Edna. Dear father of Malcolm (Elan), Arthur (Dawn), Frank (Ida), Daniel (Debbi) and Gerald (Diane). Loving grandfather of Stacey, Ian, Eric and Jack. Graveside services Friday, 11 AM
 GRUSON--Michael. Former Partner and Of Counsel, Shearman & Sterling (1936 2005) Michael Gruson, a key figure in international banking and capital markets, died in New York on December 20 of a brain tumor. Mr. Gruson, a long-time partner with Shearman & Sterling, was a well-known and highly 
 MEYERS--Samuel. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Samuel Meyers, beloved father of Robert Meyers, whose generosity and enthusiastic leadership strengthens lives and enriches the Jewish community in New York, in Israel, and throughout
 MILLER--Sidney Solway. Of Baiting Hollow, NY. On December 19, 2005. Beloved husband of Marie. Predeceased by his adored first wife Hilda. Cherished father of son David and daughter-in-law Patti and daughter Roberta and son-in-law Doron. Devoted brother of Miriam. Adored grandfather of Hope 
 POWERS--Frederic B. Sound Shore Health System mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Frederic B. Powers. Together with his family, Fred was a steadfast supporter of the Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester and a devoted member of the Board of Governors. He served from 196
 REISS--Arthur. Passed away on December 21, 2005 at the age of 92. Beloved husband and patriarch of an adoring family. Survived by his wife Arline and his children Roberta Miller (Joshua), Marvin Reiss (Susan) and Linda Heffner (Edward), his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. He was the 
 TULCHIN -- Stanley ''Ted''. WLIW21 New York Public Television mourns the passing of our Board Member, generous supporter and friend, Stanley ''Ted'' Tulchin. As an award-winning producer for Broadway and the London stage, he lived public television's mission to preserve and promote the perf
 TULCHIN--Stanley''Ted''. A man of vision and integrity. Theater producer. Founder of STA Intl; Maidstone Productions; and Continental Bank of Garden City. Brother to Norman and the late Gertrude Rosenfeld. Adored husband of Patsy. Devoted father of Jeffrey, Jill and Steven. Proud grandfathe
 Charles F. Cummings, the official historian of Newark, whose encyclopedic knowledge of the city and its environs took in everything from the name of the first municipal commissioner of shade trees to the fact that a mayonnaise factory once graced the shores of the Passaic River, died in the
 BJOZE--Jack. Passed away peacefully at home on December 16, 2005. Predeceased by his wife, Ann, cherished father of Judy and Jane, dear grandfather of David, Debby, Jesse, and Michael. Beloved partner of Victoria, proud comrade of The Veterans of The Abraham Lincoln Brigade. We will miss yo
 ENGORON--Malcolm W., Sr. Passed away peacefully December 21st, 2005 on his 89th birthday. Beloved husband of Edna. Dear father of Malcolm (Elan), Arthur (Dawn), Frank (Ida), Daniel (Debbi) and Gerald (Diane). Loving grandfather of Stacey, Ian, Eric and Jack. Graveside services Friday, 11 AM
 HOWELLS--William White. On December 20 at home in Kittery Point, ME. Predeceased in 2002 by his wife of 73 years, Muriel Gurdon Seabury, survived by a daughter, Gurdon Metz of New York City, a son, William Dean Howells of Kittery Point, ME, four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. 
 MULLIGAN--James Donald. 80 years old of Arlington, VA and Palm Beach, FL passed away peacefully with his great sense of humor intact, on Wednesday, December 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Shirley Hensel Mulligan; loving father of Kathleen Mary Price and her husband, Virgil M. Price II, Patric
 SCHMECK--Robert E., 85. On December 18, in Ocala, FL. Son of Hazel and Ernest Schmeck of Niagara Falls. A pioneering Industrial Designer, he held 24 mechanical, two electronic, three international patents, and over 50 design patents and copyrights. Survived by wife Jill; children with wife 
 BROADWATER - Bowden. Writer and former Registrar at St. Bernard's School. Died on Friday, December 16, 2005. Husband of the late Mary McCarthy. Survived by his stepson Reuel K. Wilson of London, Ontario. Memorial service will be scheduled in February. Contributions in Bowden's memory to the
 Ted Tulchin, a businessman and theatrical producer, died on Monday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Floral Park. His death was announced by the League of American Theaters and Producers. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Most rece
 David Patterson, a scholar of Jewish life in Europe who established a center for Hebrew and Jewish studies at Oxford University to help revive a discipline that had been virtually destroyed during the Holocaust, died at a hospital in Oxford on Dec. 10. He was 83. The cause was prost
 Elrod Hendricks, who spent nearly four decades with the Orioles as a catcher and coach and came to be revered in Baltimore for his community work and his bonds with the fans, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Glen Burnie, Md., a day before his 65th birthday. The cause was a hear
 BELGOROD--Howard H. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and long time friend, Howard Belgorod and send condolences to his family.       
 BELLUCCI--Dr. Richard. 91, passed on December 22, after a brave battle with cancer. Survived by his wife Eleanor DePaoli, M.D. his daughter Eleanor B. Handler. Your vast contributions to healthcare will live on forever. Visitation 2-5 and 7-9 Monday, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenu
 DELAUNAY--Joan H. On December 21, at the young age of 106. Climbed on Mt. Everest, also a model, and an antique store entrepreneur. Beloved wife of the late Max. Cherished aunt of Richard and his wife Ruth Vlock, Marsha and her husband Jay Sternin and the late Dr. David Vlock and his wife M
 HOWELLS--William White. On December 20 at home in Kittery Point, ME. Predeceased in 2002 by his wife of 73 years, Muriel Gurdon Seabury, survived by a daughter, Gurdon Metz of New York City, a son, William Dean Howells of Kittery Point, ME, four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. 
 LUBIN--Lawrence. 75 years old, on December 22, 2005, of Englewood, N.J. Beloved husband of Ellie. Devoted father of Miriam Bloom (Alan) and Jay Lubin (Francie). Loving grandfather of Matthew, Adam and Jeffrey and loving brother of Melvin and Edward. Larry was a retired Actuary. He waged a 5
 RENICK--Theodore M. ''Ted''. Age 79 of Centerville, and Boca Raton, FL. Entered into rest December 22, 2005. Beloved husband of Jacqueline ''Jackie'' (Zekind). Devoted father of Jamie Elias and her husband Howard, Bruce Renick and his companion Jodie Berro. Loving poppy of Caroline, Jordana
 TWHIGG--James Simon. Of Hudson, NY formerly of New York City, native of New Zealand died December 20 at the Albany Medical Center. He is survived by his son Tan Twhigg, brother John Twhigg and sister Mary - Louise Robertson. Donations are suggested for the Catholic Worker at 36 East 1st Str
 Albert L. Weimorts, a civilian engineer for the Air Force who conceived and designed some of the biggest, most powerful nonnuclear bombs ever made, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Fort Walton Beach, Fla. He was 67. The cause was brain cancer, his son Todd said. In 2003, i
 BELGOROD--Howard H., DDS. December 22, 2005. Beloved husband of Madeline (nee Bloom). Loving father of Morie and Barry. Cherished grandfather of Margot, Gregory & Douglas. He will be missed by all those whose lives he touched and improved. Services Monday, December 26, 2005, 10 AM at Temple
 BELLUCCI--Dr. Richard. 91, passed on December 22, after a brave battle with cancer. Survived by his wife Eleanor DePaoli, M.D. his daughter Eleanor B. Handler. Your vast contributions to healthcare will live on forever. Visitation 2-5 and 7-9 Monday, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenu
 BJOZE--Jack. Passed away peacefully at home on December 16, 2005. Predeceased by his wife, Ann, cherished father of Judy and Jane, dear grandfather of David, Debby, Jesse, and Michael. Beloved partner of Victoria, proud comrade of The Veterans of The Abraham Lincoln Brigade. We will miss yo
 BLANK--Jerry. Past President of Paragon Sporting Goods, died December 19, 2005. Born February 26, 1918 in Brooklyn, NY. As a teenage boy Jerry Blank loved and nurtured Paragon Sports, which was founded by his father, to become the preeminent retailing sporting goods establishment in America
 GREENBERG--Rubin. Passed away peacefully at his Manhattan home in the presence of his family on December 16, 2005 at the age of 81 after a brief illness. He was a World War II veteran and served as a glider co-pilot in the Army Air Corps 441st Troop Carrier Command and saw action with the 8
 GROSS--Richard Henry, 83. Died at his home in Irvington, NY, December 10, 2005. Born February 25, 1922 in New York City to Rose Heiman and Sydney Lee Gross, he lived with his wife and children in Irvington for over 50 years. He had a successful 35 year career at Popsicle Industries, Inc., w
 LEVINE--Robert. Died on December 17 after a long illness, with his wife, artist Emma Amos, and children, Nick and India, at his side. Born in Brooklyn in 1929, he attended Brooklyn Technical H.S. and the Cooper Union School of Engineering, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of NYU in 1951, and s
 LUBIN--Lawrence. 75 years old, on December 22, 2005, of Englewood, N.J. Beloved husband of Ellie. Devoted father of Miriam Bloom (Alan) and Jay Lubin (Francie). Loving grandfather of Matthew, Adam and Jeffrey and loving brother of Melvin and Edward. Larry was a retired Actuary. He waged a 5
 MILLER--Solomon. Died December 9, 2005. Buried on his 97th birthday in the Star of David Cemetery in Fort Lauderdale. Survived by his daughters, Evelene Wechsler of East Hampton and New York City & Louise Bressler of Fort Lauderdale, five grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren. We celebra
 SCHWARTZ--Max. On December 20, 2005 at the age of 96. Beloved husband of the late May Schwartz. Loving father of Daniel, Harriet and Norma. Cherished grandfather of Allison and (David), Lisa and (Frank) David & (Laura) and Stephanie. Grandfather of seven great-grand children. Max graduated 
 SUTTON--Alfred M. On December 23, 2005, at age 74. Beloved husband of Carmen Sutton. Loving father of Karen, Theresa, Christopher and Alfred Sutton and dear grandfather. Devoted brother of Michael and Jack Sutton, Rosemary Reddan, Ann Maguffin, Betty Hassett, Kay Giblin and twenty - eight n
 BROADWATER - Bowden. Writer and former Registrar at St. Bernard's School. Died on Friday, December 16, 2005. Husband of the late Mary McCarthy. Survived by his stepson Reuel K. Wilson of London, Ontario. Memorial service will be scheduled in February. Contributions in Bowden's memory to the
 STAHLNECKER -- Lawrence J. Died peacefully in NYC, December 23, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Rita. Loving father of Mary Anne, James and John. Loved like a father by son-in-law Kevin Sanborn and sister-in-law Virginia Walsh. Cherished grandfather of Kristin, Christopher, James Jr., Jos
 Eliot Freidson, a sociologist at New York University who studied the inner workings of society's professions, particularly the way doctors are organized to practice medicine, died on Dec. 14 in a hospice in San Francisco. He was 82. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family s
 Dr. Herman Roiphe, a psychoanalyst who explored the notion of sexual identity in early childhood development, died on Dec. 14 in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Working with another researcher, Dr. Eleanor Galenson, Dr. Roiphe (pronounced ROY-fee
 BAGDON--Joseph A., 99, at home in Roslyn Hgts. Born in 1906 to Lithuanian immigrants, Joe graduated from Brown in 1928. He worked as an engineer at Bell Labs and Western Electric until 1971. During WWII, he served as a Major in the Army Signal Corps. After retiring, he worked as an Alcohol 
 HOWELLS--William White. On December 20 at home in Kittery Point, ME. Predeceased in 2002 by his wife of 73 years, Muriel Gurdon Seabury, survived by a daughter, Gurdon Metz of New York City, a son, William Dean Howells of Kittery Point, ME, four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. 
 KRENTZMAN -- Harvey ''Chet''. Of Chestnut Hill and Falmouth, MA, entered into rest December 23, 2005. Beloved husband of Farla (Blumer). Devoted father of Mark A. Krentzman and his wife Caroline Vanderlip of Manhattan and Washington, CT, and Scott D. Krentzman and his wife Diane of W. Newto
 STAHLNECKER -- Lawrence J. Died peacefully in NYC, December 23, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Rita. Loving father of Mary Anne, James and John. Loved like a father by son-in-law Kevin Sanborn and sister-in-law Virginia Walsh. Cherished grandfather of Kristin, Christopher, James Jr., Jos
 John Diebold, a visionary thinker whose early and persistent promotion of computers and other far-reaching innovations helped shape industrial development in America and beyond, died yesterday at his home in Bedford Hills, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his ne
 Kerry Packer, who became Australia's richest man by turning a magazine and television inheritance worth millions into a diverse business worth billions, died yesterday in Sydney. He was 68. His death was reported by his family. The Associated Press reported Mr. Packer had been plagu
 Norman Vaughan, a legendary Alaskan explorer and dog sled racer, and the last surviving member of Adm. Richard E. Byrd's expedition to Antarctica in 1928-30, died Friday at a hospital in Anchorage. He was 100. The death was confirmed by the Providence Alaska Medical Center. 
 BELLUCCI--Richard J., M.D. New York Medical College mourns the loss of our benefactor and friend, Richard J. Bellucci, M.D., former professor and chairman of the Department of Otolaryngology. Pioneering surgeon and skilled teacher of countless new physicians, he received many medical, civic
 DALY--Bernard. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Ira (Lisa). Cherished grandfather of Jacob. Dear brother of Hyman, Hannah Greenberg and Judith Mayer. Services are today, 2:15 PM, ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows, NY. DALY--Bernard. On Dece
 GULIELMETTI--Paul M., 58. December 24. Husband of Leslie Miller, father of Gabriele and Jack, brother of Philip and John. Fiercely loving father, untiring and creative attorney, advocate of artist's housing rights, and natural-born cook. Memorial to be announced. Gifts in Paul's memory to t
 HEERWAGEN--Herbert A. Age 95, on December 24, 2005, of Maplewood, NJ. Previously of Chappaqua, NY. Survived by his wife of 28 years, Margaret, by son Peter of Winchester, VA, son David of NY, NY, daughter Nancy Williams of Chestnut Hill, PA, and son John, Sudbury, MA. Also survived by grand
 MILLER--Sy J. Departed on December 22, 2005, as a result of cardiac arrest. He leaves his wife of 62 years, Lillian, his two daughters, Jan and Meg, his brother, Jerry, two grandchildren and many good friends. During his 42 year professional career he led the highly successful Miller Organi
 RIKE--George Carson. Of Brooklyn, retired advertising copywriter, died December 22 at the age of 84. He worked primarily for Doyle Dane Bernbach, later Needham DDB, from 1960 to 1994, wrting print, radio and television copy and winning many awards. In another persona, he was Associate Edito
 SCHUMANN--Dr. David P. His loving family records with deep sorrow the passing of their loving and dearest brother and father, uncle, cousin and friend. His thoughts and deeds were first for his family, friends and grateful patients. He will be deeply missed.       
 SOCARIDES -- Charles Wil liam, M.D., on December 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Claire Alford Socarides, loving father of Jacqueline Nicole Socarides, Charles W. Socarides, Jr., Alexandra Socarides, Richard Socarides and Daphne Socarides (deceased), loving grandfather of Archer Fried Socaride
 PETROCELLI--Anthony J. Of Mendham Twp., on December 25, 2005. Vice Chairman of D. George Harris Assoc. Devoted husband of Antoinette Cassata Petrocelli. Devoted father of Serena Petrocelli. Cherished grandfather of Gabrielle Petrocelli. Dear brother of Orlando and Atillio Petrocelli, Jeanet
 STAHLNECKER -- Lawrence J. Died peacefully in NYC, December 23, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Rita. Loving father of Mary Anne, James and John. Loved like a father by son-in-law Kevin Sanborn and sister-in-law Virginia Walsh. Cherished grandfather of Kristin, Christopher, James Jr., Jos
 Dr. Charles W. Socarides, a well-known psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who maintained publicly, long after it was considered scientifically acceptable to do so, that homosexuality was a condition amenable to treatment and even to conversion to heterosexuality, died on Sunday at Metropolitan 
 John H. Herz, a scholar of international relations and law and a professor emeritus of government at City College, died on Monday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 97. The death was announced by Thomas G. Karis, a friend and colleague. Dr. Herz focused his studies and wr
 BERNSTEIN--Alfred Paul. On December 26 after a courageous struggle with Parkinson's disease. Beloved brother of Pearl Kay, devoted uncle of Andrew Kay, and cherished companion of the late Robert Garrett. A gentleman of integrity, generosity and intelligence, Paul was an astute businessman a
 COLIN--George. Of Delray Beach, Florida passed away on December 24, 2005. He was the beloved husband of Yetta Colin, father of Jay Barry Colin of Montecito, CA and Delray Beach, FL, Larry H. Colin of Atlanta, GA, and adoring grandfather of six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren. He 
 EVANS -- G. Blakemore. Shakespeare's editor (the Riverside), Harvard Renaissance scholar, irreplaceable friend of 35 years. Our love and respect to Betty, Pam, and Michael, the grandchildren, and great grandchildren. We miss him so. Susan and Joseph Ferraro       
 FRANCE -- Charles Engell. Died on Christmas Day, 2005, at the age of 58. Writer, press agent, antiques dealer (specializing in costume jewelry), and former assistant to the Artistic Director of American Ballet Theatre, Mikhail Baryshnikov, with whom he co-authored ''Baryshnikov at Work,'' a
 GALLAGHER -- Joseph J., M.D. Of Upper Saddle River NJ died December 22, 2005 at age 82, with his famed good humor intact. He is survived by his wife Edna, son Timothy and his wife Kristi, daughters Kato and Bronwyn, and two grandsons, Nicholas and Zachary. He was predeceased by a son, Danie
 GULIELMETTI--Paul M., 58. December 24. Husband of Leslie Miller, father of Gabriele and Jack, brother of Philip and John. Fiercely loving father, untiring and creative attorney, advocate of artist's housing rights, and natural-born cook. Memorial to be announced. Gifts in Paul's memory to t
 KASHA--Matthew P. was the guiding force behind the sound installations at the Mercury Lounge, the Bowery Ballroom, and most recently Webster Hall. His creative genius, unfailing ear, and insistence on quality has given musicians and fans the best sound they can get in New York City. And thi
 KUSHNER--Stanley. In loving memory, at 75 years old, passed away peacefully on Monday, December 26 at his home in Stratton Mountain, VT. After retiring from his life long career as an electrical contractor and President of Kushner Electric Company., he persued his dual passion of golf and s
 LUCHINS--Dr. Abraham S. 91, on December 27, 2005. Predeceased by his wife of 60 years and lifelong academic collaborator, Dr. Edith, he is survived by five children, 22 grandchildren and 21 great grandchildren. A prolific researcher and author, pioneer Gestalt psychologist, Founding Chairma
 PARKINSON--John III. Of NYC and Millbrook, NY, on December 25. Born 1934 to Elizabeth Bliss and John Parkinson, Jr. Survived by: his wife, Charlotte; children, John Parkinson, Allston Parkinson (and Susan), and Elizabeth Parkinson-Wyner (and Josh); grandchildren, Jack and Miles Wyner and Sc
 REISS--Arthur. The YU family is saddened by the recent passing of an admired leader and supporter who, with his wife, Arline, and family was a YU Guardian. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Arline; to his children, YC Board member Marvin Reiss who, with his wife Susan, is a YU
 ROSS--Kurt P. Lifetime resident of New York City and Managing Director of Ross & Lawrence Public Relations passed away on December 9, 2005. He will be remembered for his outstanding professional capabilities, acute intelligence, sophisticated wit, distinctive personal style and unrelenting 
 SCHNEIDER--Howard, 77. December 25, 2005. Beloved husband and best friend of Roberta. Devoted father of Lori and Harvey. Cherished father-in-law of Rachel. Adoring grandfather of Scott, Stephen, Lee, Jenny and Evan. Loving uncle and dear friend. He will live in our hearts forever. Funeral s
 SOCARIDES -- Charles Wil liam, M.D., on December 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Claire Alford Socarides, loving father of Jacqueline Nicole Socarides, Charles W. Socarides, Jr., Alexandra Socarides, Richard Socarides and Daphne Socarides (deceased), loving grandfather of Archer Fried Socaride
 TOBET--Martin. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Martin Tobet, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Roslyn and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President       
 VIGILANTE--Joseph L., 80. Died of congestive heart failure. Husband of Florence, father of Amy Dickerson, Carrie Barron, and Theodore Vigilante. He held Master's and doctoral degrees from The Columbia University School of Social Work. As Faculty Member and Dean of The Adelphi School of Soci
 WEINSTEIN--Arnold. The Columbia University Alumni Club of Westchester deeply mourns the untimely death of its beloved President and founder who led us with inspired leadership to become one of the premiere clubs in the Columbia Alumni network. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife Elaine, h
 WITTING--Chris J. A pioneer in the early days of television, business executive, entrepreneur, philanthropist, and community leader, died peacefully at his home in Syracuse, NY on December 19. He was 90 years old. Witting retired as chairman, chief executive officer, and director of the Cro
 Charles Engell France, a writer on dance, a collector and the influential assistant to Mikhail Baryshnikov when he was artistic director of American Ballet Theater in the 1980's, died on Sunday. He was 59. Mr. France collapsed in his apartment building on the Upper West Side of Manh
 Donald S. Dawson, who as a presidential aide marshaled Harry S. Truman's crucial whistle-stop tour in the 1948 election campaign and who later had a long career as a Washington lawyer, died on Sunday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 97. The death was announced by his family.     
 BERNSTEIN--Alfred Paul. On December 26 after a courageous struggle with Parkinson's disease. Beloved brother of Pearl Kay, devoted uncle of Andrew Kay, and cherished companion of the late Robert Garrett. A gentleman of integrity, generosity and intelligence, Paul was an astute businessman a
 BERNSTEIN--Arthur F. Died on December 27, 2005. Born in Brooklyn, New York June 18, 1933. Arthur was president of Quantum Sportswear, a manufacturer of golf and tennis, and a division of Milady Bra and Corset Co. Inc. He is survived by his loving and devoted wife Velma, his sons David and S
 CONNELLY--Leo B. On December 25, 2005. Beloved father of Marjorie, Leo (Alicia), Ellen (Daniel Pitkin), Frank, and Alice. Devoted grandfather of Travis and Katherine. Friend may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, from 4-9 P.M. Mass of Christian Burial Friday 9:30 A
 EVANS -- G. Blakemore. Shakespeare's editor (the Riverside), Harvard Renaissance scholar, irreplaceable friend of 35 years. Our love and respect to Betty, Pam, and Michael, the grandchildren, and great grandchildren. We miss him so. Susan and Joseph Ferraro       
 FRIEDAN--Carl. December 22 in his Sarasota home of cancer. Graduated Boston Latin School, served in the 69th Division in WWII. Magician, theater producer, inventor, his career was advertising, with Friedan-Allen-Celestino and then as a one-man agency until his death. Survived by ex-wives Be
 PARKINSON--John III. Of NYC and Millbrook, NY, on December 25. Born 1934 to Elizabeth Bliss and John Parkinson, Jr. Survived by: his wife, Charlotte; children, John Parkinson, Allston Parkinson (and Susan), and Elizabeth Parkinson-Wyner (and Josh); grandchildren, Jack and Miles Wyner and Sc
 PITNEY--Duncan. On December 28 at home. An artist and raconteur. Graduate of Aiken Preparatory School, Milton Academy and Princeton '43. He served in the Army Air Corps during World War II, flying aviation gas from India to China. He was a member of the River, Brook and Somerset Hills Count
 REICH--Walter. The members of Scarsdale SynagogueTremont Temple mourn the loss of its long-time and devoted member, Walter Reich. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rita, his children Stuart and Lawrence and the entire family. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Victor Hershaft, President 
 SHAPIRO--Robert M. On December 27, 2005. Dedicated Counselor at SCORE for 31 years. Former President of Simplicity Pattern Co., Inc. WW II veteran. A generous, loving man who enjoyed a full, happy life. Beloved father of Susan, Meryl, Paula and Richard. Loving grandfather of Jason, Joshua, 
 VIGILANTE--Joseph L. The Board of Trustees of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities is greatly saddened by the passing of Joseph Vigilante. As a distinguished member of our Board of Trustees, Dr. Vigilante played a pivital role in promoting the rights of people with developmen
 WEINSTEIN--Arnold. Beloved husband of Elaine. Adoring father of Lisa and fiance Randy, Leslie and Richard. Cherished grandfather of Marc, Robbie, and Alec. Services were held at Temple Israel Center of White Plains on December 28, 2005. Contributions in his memory my be made to a charity of
 PHOTOS--Constantine. Constantine Theodore Photos, 82, died at his home on December 23, 2005. Born in Salem, Massachusetts, graduated Boston University Medical School, and served as an urologist at Lawrence and St. Luke's Roosevelt hospitals for almost 50 years. He will be remembered for his
 Richard L. Grimsdale, an electrical engineer who colleagues said built the first transistorized computer, died Dec. 6 at his home in Brighton, England. He was 76. The cause was a heart infection, according to his wife, Shirley Roberts Grimsdale. The transistor, which was inv
 Derek Bailey, the English guitarist who helped to form a fractured style and a cohesive philosophy for European free improvisation, died at his home in London on Sunday. He was 75. The cause was complications of a motor neuron disease, said Martin Davidson, a record producer and fri
 CONNELLY--Leo B. On December 25, 2005. Beloved father of Marjorie, Leo (Alicia), Ellen (Daniel Pitkin), Frank, and Alice. Devoted grandfather of Travis and Katherine. Mass of Christian Burial Friday 9:30 A.M. at Saint Francis Xavier, 30 West 16th Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions in
 FRIEDAN--Carl. December 22 in his Sarasota home of cancer. Graduated Boston Latin School, served in the 69th Division in WWII. Magician, theater producer, inventor, his career was advertising, with Friedan-Allen-Celestino and then as a one-man agency until his death. Survived by ex-wives Be
 GULIELMETTI--Paul M. Lower Manhattan Loft Tenants mourns Paul M. Guielmetti. His legal skill, his cunning, his generosity, and most of all his appetite for the good fight over thirty years helped secure key rights for loft tenants. Paul was there at the start, always played hard, and won pr
 KLEIN--Howard B. Age 78, died December 27 after an accident Christmas day while skiing in his beloved New Hampshire. He is survived by devoted wife of 55 years, the artist Marion, their children Amanda, Matthew and Josh, his sister Lila and his sons' wives Dr. Debra Adler-Klein and Beatrice
 PARKINSON--John III. Of NYC and Millbrook, NY, on December 25. Born 1934 to Elizabeth Bliss and John Parkinson, Jr. Survived by: his wife, Charlotte; children, John Parkinson, Allston Parkinson (and Susan), and Elizabeth Parkinson-Wyner (and Josh); grandchildren, Jack and Miles Wyner and Sc
 STERN -- Howard S. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, League, administration and staff of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation are deeply saddened by the loss of Trustee Howard Stern. The elderly have lost an understanding & determined advocate and the world has los
 WEINSTEIN--Arnold. Beloved husband of Elaine. Adoring father of Lisa and fiance Randy, Leslie and Richard. Cherished grandfather of Marc, Robbie, and Alec. Services were held at Temple Israel Center of White Plains on December 28, 2005. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity o
 PHOTOS--Constantine. Constantine Theodore Photos, 82, died at his home on December 23, 2005. Born in Salem, Massachusetts, graduated Boston University Medical School, and served as an urologist at Lawrence and St. Luke's Roosevelt hospitals for almost 50 years. He will be remembered for his
 William W. Howells, a leading physical anthropologist who focused on the origins of humans and the evolution of races, died on Dec. 20 at his home in Kittery Point, Me. He was 97. The death was announced by his family. Professor Howells, emeritus professor of anthropology at
 George O'Brien, who as design director of Tiffany & Company brought modern designers like Elsa Peretti into its fold and who as home furnishings editor of The New York Times edited its first book on home design, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78. The c
 John Druze, the last surviving member of Fordham University's football offensive line of the 1930's known as the Seven Blocks of Granite, died Tuesday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 91. His death was announced by Fordham. During the 1920's, Notre Dame's line was dubbed the Seve
 BARBOUR - Thomas. The Episcopal Actors' Guild of America affectionately mourns our beloved Vice President, Thomas Barbour, founder of the Scholarships Program that bears his name.       
 BARTOS--Armand Phillip. Of NYC died at his home on December 29 at the age of 95. Husband of Celeste, father of Adam, Armand Jr., Mary and Michael, stepfather of Jonathan and Jennifer Altman (deceased), grandfather of Nur, Adrian, Justine, Catherine, Peter and John Bartos and of six great gr
 GROSZ--Melvin Kyle. Age 61, of Falmouth, MA, formerly of Bedford, NY, died at his home on December 28, 2005. Kyle worked for IBM for thirtythree years, and retired in 2001 from his position as Vice President of Finance for Large Servers. He is survived by his wife, Ann Lindley Grosz; his da
 GROVER -- Henry Cushing (Hank). On November 28, 2005 in Houston at 78 years. Served in the Texas State Legislature, 1961-1972. Gubernatorial candidate. Prior to that, a public high school teacher and veteran. Condolences to his wife, children and grandchildren from his four sisters, ninetee
 SCHICK--Elliot. December 29, 2005. Loving husband of Harriet. He is survived by daughters Debra and Karen and step-sons David and Paul and grandchildren. He loved people and will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral service Sunday, January 1, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell
 PHOTOS--Constantine. Constantine Theodore Photos, 82, died at his home on December 23, 2005. Born in Salem, Massachusetts, graduated Boston University Medical School, and served as an urologist at Lawrence and St. Luke's Roosevelt hospitals for almost 50 years. He will be remembered for his
