 John Berry, a stage and movie director, writer and actor who made  more than 50 films and, entangled in the blacklist, exiled himself from Hollywood during the anti-Communist inquests of the 1950's, died on Monday at his home in Paris. He was 82. Long drawn to the dramatic conflicts
 BARRETT-John J. We record with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved graduate of the Class of 1928 and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Fordham Law Alumni Association Fordham Law School       
 FASTENBERG-Arthur. On November 30, 1999. Beloved husband of Eve for 66 years. Cherished father of Francine and Irwin Levine, and Elaine and Leon Smith. Adoring grandfather of Lori, Karen, Daniel, Susan and Jessica. Great grandfather of David, Benjamin & Julia. Devoted brother of Milton, Abn
 FREUDENBERGER-Herbert J. Esteened senior member of the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis. He will be sorely missed. Services on Wednesday December 1, 10:30AM at Sinai Free Synagogue, 550 N. Columbus Ave, Mount Vernon. Harvey Kaplan, President, The Association of NPAP Gar
 GANAPOLER-Paul (Perry). June 20th, 1915-November 29th, 1999. Beloved uncle of large extended family. Acted as translator for German & Italian POWs in New Jersey during W.W. II. Studied at UCLA and graduated from NYU. While working on his Doctorate in Spanish literature living in Spain, came
 LIEB-Charles H. age 92, a retired lawyer, died Sunday at his home in Easton, Connecticut. He was a member of the N.Y. and CT. bars and practiced for over 55 years in NYC. He was a senior partner in the law firm of Paskus, Gordon & Mandel until that firm's dissolution in 1986. He then served
 LYNCH-Luke Daniel, Sr. Died peacefully after a long illness on November 27, 1999 in Naples, Fla. Beloved husband of Marjorie for 55 years. Devoted father of Luke Jr. (Nancy), Dorsey (Joyce), and Dan (Cornelia) Lynch and Carol Manire (Michael). Big Chief to 11 grandchildren. Brother of James
 MARTIN-Lawrence N., Jr. Survived by his wife, Carmen S. Martin; a son, Lawrence N. Martin III; and daughter-in-law, Kathleen Barber Martin. A memorial service will be held December 4, 1999, at 11:30AM at Our Lady of Sorrows Church in White Plains, NY. Donations may be sent to Daniel Petryla
 MOYLES-William P., 69, a business executive and lawyer, died at his home in Sewickley, PA. from complications resulting from Parkinson's Disease on Saturday, November 6, 1999. Born on June 1, 1930 in Brooklyn, NY, He was educated at Xavier High School, NY., earned a Bachelor's Degree at Geo
 NELKIN-Julian. 85. Lake Worth Fl., on November 30, 1999. Formerly of Great Neck. Devoted and loving husband of Rae. Caring father of Susan Lee, Alan and Henry, and father-in-law of Marianne and Janice. Wonderful grandfather of David and Kelli, Jonathan, Emily and Dylan. Brother of Mildred G
 WERLY-Charles M. of Duxbury, MA, November 29, age 93 years. Husband of the late Jane (Woods) Werly. Father of Jane E. Werly of Delray Beach, FL. He is also survived by 7 nieces & nephews. A Funeral Service will be held at St. John's Episcopal Church, Washington St., Duxbury on Saturday Dece
 WOLLNER-Edward H. Of New York, Florida and, most recently, Washington, D.C. Died peacefully November 28, 1999 after 92 wonderful years of life. He had retired in 1988 after 60 years in the advertising & printing industries. He was the beloved husband of Harriet S. Wollner (deceased), devote
 Hugh Haynie, a longtime cartoonist for The Courier-Journal in Louisville, Ky., died on Friday at a hospital in Louisville. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said Keith Runyon, the opinion editor of the newspaper. Mr. Haynie, who retired in 1995 after more than 36 years w
 BENNET-Charles. On Dec. 1, 1999 at his home. Beloved husband of Lillian. Devoted father of Philip Bennet and Carol Schoenberg. Also survived by five grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Service Friday, 11 AM, at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street at Madison Avenue, New York City. BEN
 BLANKSTEN-Richard A., died on November 20, 1999, after a long illness. He received the Chancellor's Award for Music Teacher of the Year. He holds a BA and BM degree from Oberlin College and Conservatory and a Master's in Music Education from NYU. He will be missed by his longtime companion,
 CONDILES-George. 72, formerly of Jackson Heights, Queens, residing in Yonkers, NY died of complications from cancer in Columbia Presbyterian Hospital on November 30, 1999. Born in NYC, he was the son of the late Domna Petros and the late Gus Condiles. He was the beloved husband to his adori
 FASTENBERG-Arthur. On November 30, 1999. Beloved husband of Eve for 66 years. Cherished father of Francine and Irwin Levine, and Elaine and Leon Smith. Adoring grandfather of Lori, Karen, Daniel, Lauren, Susan and Jessica. Great-grandfather of David, Benjamin & Julia. Devoted brother of Mil
 FLEISCHMAN-Sam. Loving and devoted husband to Frances for 62 years. The partners and staff of Rochlin, Greenblatt, Gallo, LLP mourn the passing of Sam Fleischman, loving father-in-law of our Sr. Partner, Robert E. Rochlin and loving father of Marsha Rochlin and Marylin Lehrer and loving fat
 FREUDENBERGER-Herbert J. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Herbert J. Freudenberger, beloved father of Marc J. Freud, vice-chair of our Real Estate Executives Committee, and father-inlaw of Nikki Freud, Director of Strategic I
 GANAPOLER-Paul (Perry). June 20th, 1915-November 29th, 1999. Beloved uncle of large extended family. Acted as translator for German & Italian POWs in New Jersey during W.W. II. Studied at UCLA and graduated from NYU. While working on his Doctorate in Spanish literature living in Spain, came
 JAECKEL-Joseph. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Carolyn, and family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 LaMAGNA-Liborio J. Died on December 1, 1999. Survived by his wife, Anna, sons, John, Richard and Robert. Reposing George T. Davis Funeral Home, 14 LeCount Place, New Rochelle Thursday, 7-9 PM, Friday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Mass Saturday 9:30 AM Holy Name Church, New Rochelle.       
 SARETT-Lewis H. Born December 22, 1917 in Champaign, Illinois. Died on November 29, 1999 at his Viola, Idaho home. Attended Princeton University & graduated with his doctorate in Chemistry in 1942. Received the National Medal of Science in 1975 and the Perkin Medal Award in 1976. He was ele
 TERRELL-Jerry. We are deeply saddened at the passing of Jerry, our beloved friend for over 40 years. He was a truly warm, kind and very giving person and we will miss him terribly. Our condolences to his dear wife, Sylvia, and daughters, Shelley, Fran and Barbara and their families. Bill an
 Joey Adams, a classic borscht-belt comedian who spent six decades in the joke-telling business, died yesterday at St. Vincents Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Adams, who in addition to his years of stand-up comedy also wrote joke books and made films, had a syndicated joke col
 M. N. Srinivas, a sociologist who steered Indian scholarship away from the stolid notions of classical texts and into the real world of field work in villages and factories, died on Tuesday in Bangalore. He was 83, and, until his last days, was writing and lecturing about the caste 
 Mike Ockrent, an acclaimed British director whose light touch invigorated musicals and plays in London and New York, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was leukemia, said Robert Lantz, his agent. A university-trained physic
 ADAMS-Joey. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars are deeply saddened by the passing of our valued and esteemed member, Joey Adams. Joey's quick wit and exuberant manner instantly endeared him to all who met him. If anyone has earned the distinction of being the ''defin
 BENNAHUM-Michael. On November 1, Michael Bennahum, 58, died of cancer at home surrounded by his family. He is survived by his soulmate and wife Leslie, his children David and Samantha who gave him so much joy, his aunt Stella whom he loved dearly, and his brother David whose care and love w
 BLAU-Raymond, 89, died on October 30, 1999 of South Orange, New Jersey and Longboat Key, Florida. President of Max Blau & Sons, Inc. Loving husband of the late Hope Blau. He is survived by his loving daughters Maxine Blau and Adele Blau Cass, and grandsons David and Gregory. Friends and fam
 BRONFMAN-Larry. Park River Independent Democrats mourns the loss of our former District Leader and President. He was a committed & principled reformer, bringing thoughtfulness, hard work, warmth and humor to our lives. Our deep sympathies to his wife, Judith and the family. We shall miss hi
 CALDER-Duncan G. III. The partners, lawyers and staff of White & Case LLP around the world mourn the sudden loss of our partner and good friend Duncan Calder. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. James B. Hurlock, Chairman White & Case LLP       
 DELANEY-Kevin M. Of Rutherford, NJ, formerly of Jersey City & New York City, Tuesday, November 30, 1999, from complications of diabetes. Loving son of the late Anna T. (nee-Brandon) & Francis X. Delaney; dear brother of Geralyn Delaney, William Delaney, Mary Frances Murphy, and Noreen Gould
 FASTENBERG-Arthur. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Arthur Fastenberg, a cherished friend who perpetuated the philanthropic traditions of his exceptionally generous family through his devotion to Jewish causes. He will be deeply m
 FEDER-Max. Of Sunrise, FL, and former longtime resident of Brooklyn and Forest Hills, NY, on October 29 at age 90. Son of Philip and Ida. Beloved husband of 59 years of the late and deeply missed Rose. Devoted father of Michael. Loving grandfather of Jonathan. Caring brother of Shirley and 
 FEINMAN-Max L. On December 2, 1999 at age 94. Long-time physician, surgeon and teacher. He graduated from Long Island College of Medicine and served as a Captain in the U.S. Army during WWII; Chief of Surgery at Lefferts General Hospital, affiliated with Wycoff Heights Hospital and Doctors 
 FORMAN-Joseph. It is with profound sorrow that Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center/Rutland Nursing Home, its Board of Trustees, Medical/Dental Staff, and all personnel mourn the passing of Joseph Forman, esteemed Board Member. Sincere sympathies to his wife, Jean, and family. May they be comfo
 FREEMAN-Jarold and Barbara. The Board of Directors, Scientific Advisory Committee, Postdoctoral Fellows and employees of The Irvington Institute for Immunological Research note with great sadness the tragic and untimely deaths of Jarold Freeman and his wife Barbara Freeman on Egyptair Fligh
 HARRIS-Martin. March 13, 1933December 1, 1999. Adored husband of Boots (Lauren). Cherished dad of Michael, Clint, Rex, Saroya & Eytan Chissick. Playful Grandpa Marty to Patrick, Brooke, Richard, Daphna, Avital and Zev Shmvel. Cherished son of Josephine and the late Samuel. World's best frie
 JESSON-Chester S. of Rutherford, NJ, died Saturday October 30, 1999. Mr. Jesson was born in Bayonne, NJ. He was a retired linotype operator for the New York Times. Mr. Jesson was a Staff Sergeant in the Army Air Corps. Serving in Guam during WW II. He was a parishoner of St. Mary R.C. Churc
 JOHNSON-Thomas ''Mac''. Of Greenwich Ct. On October 31, 1999 at age 73. He had a long and distinguished career in the advertising business at Better Homes & Gardens, Sports Illustrated, Hockaday Associates, DeGarmo, AC&R, and R. Gesell & Co., producers of fine watches for NFL Properties. Gr
 KING-Stephen J. The employees of the New York City Department of Environmental Protection mourn the passing of our esteemed Director of Police. We will truly miss this dedicated and trustworthy public servant. To his wife, Tina, and to all his family, we extend our deepest condolences.     
 LAMBROS-Lambros J. On October 29, 1999, at age 64. Loving father of John F. Lambros and Olivia W. Lambros. Devoted son of Niki and the late John Lambros. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 5-7 PM, and Wednesday, 10 AM-12 noon. Funeral services at th
 LEW-John. On October 31, 1999 after a long battle with lung cancer. Survived by his wife, Harriet King, two sons Andrew and Christopher, his parents, a sister and a brother. Memorial service November 4 at St. Michael's Church, 225 W. 99th St., 10:30-11:30 a.m. In lieu of flowers donations t
 LEWIS-Milton F., 86 years old, investment banker & philanthropist, died Thursday morning of natural causes at his home in Teaneck, New Jersey. A resident of Avon by the Sea, New Jersey; and Venice, Florida. Born in 1913 in West Hoboken to Edmund and Emily (nee Materka). Lewis, devoted fathe
 PACE-Julian V. On December 1, 1999 at age 76. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Survived by his brother Charles R. Pace of New Hampshire. Funeral Mass at St. Joseph's Church, 404 E. 87th St., NYC, Saturday, 10:00 AM. Interment at Mount St. Mary's Cemetery, Flushing. Contributions in his name may 
 PRICE-Samson D. Died November 2, 1999 in Greenville, SC. He was 96 years old. He is survived by his wife, Ruth; his sons, Kenneth, Edward and Arthur; his grandchildren Giselle, Andrew and Stephen; and his daughters-in law, Graciela, Patricia and Sandra. He was a pioneer of the frozen fruit 
 RITTENBERG-Jack, husband of Joan, cherished father of Randi, David and Diane, and loving grandfather of Amanda and Rachel. Brother of Laurence and beloved ''uncle''. Donations may be made to the National Arthritis Foundation. Services Friday, 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amste
 SCHELPERT-John W., MD. It is with deep and profound regret that James R. Jones, MD, Professor and Chairman, and the faculty of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of New York Medical College acknowledge the tragic death on board Egyptair Flight 990, Sunday, October 31,1999, of Dr. J
 SCHICKELE-David. Film maker, violist and composer, 62, died of Cancer on October 31st in his San Francisco home. He is survived by his wife Gail, son Graham Spencer Nighttrain, daughter Laura Bissonette and brother Peter. His gifts touched many lives. Donations may be made to Commonweal, Bo
 SMITH-Lloyd Hilton. A resident of Southampton, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, died Wednesday October 27, 1999, in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Smith often quoted the Mark Twain exclamation, ''If I cannot smoke cigars in Heaven, then I won't go,'' was 94. Born in Pittsburgh, PA, the deceased was a member of
 ZAKIM-Leonard. The Anti-Demfamation League mourns the untimely passing of our dear colleague and friend, Leonard Zakim, ADL New England Regional Director in Boston. For more than 20 years Lenny served the League and the Jewish people with dedication and distinction. He worked tirelessly to 
 Vladimir Yashchenko, who as a teenager set world records in the high jump using an antiquated style, died on Tuesday. He was 40. No other details were available, yet a track coach from Zaporizhya, Ukraine, his hometown, told Reuters that Yashchenko died of cirrhosis of the liver, wh
 Charlie Byrd, a virtuoso jazz guitarist who was among the first to popularize bossa nova in North America, died on Wednesday at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said Audrey Faine, director of publicity at Concord Records. Although most jazz guitari
 Edmond J. Safra, the banker and philanthropist who died in an apparent arson at his Monaco penthouse today, built a vast banking group with Wall Street hustle and old world conservatism. His death came only a few weeks after he reached a turning point in his tumultuous career, when 
 Gene Rayburn, who became a mainstay on television from the 1960's to the 80's as the amiable host of ''The Match Game,'' died on Monday at his home in Beverly, Mass. He was 81. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter and only immediate survivor, Lynne Rayburn, said on T
 ADAMS-Joey. As producers of ''The Joey Adams Show'' on WEVD Radio for almost 20 years, we greatly appreciated his talent and valued his loyalty and friendship. He will be missed. The Joseph Jacobs Organization       
 ATKINS-Thomas. The Hunter College community is sadden to learn of the death of Dr. Thomas Atkins, who served as Chief Librarian at Hunter from 1991-1995. Professor Atkins was a scholar committed to learning, an innovator who helped usher the new technology into our libraries, and an educato
 CHESTER-Alexander Campbell. 84, former president and chairman of H. Muehlstein & Co. died near his home on Shelter Island, NY of a stroke on December 2, 1999. He began his career at Muehlstein as the traffic manager in 1938 and retired as chairman of the board in 1978. Soon afterwards Muehl
 DUBOW-Arthur M. Of East Hampton, NY and Patagonia, AZ, on December 3 at age 66. Beloved husband of Barbara Shattuck Dubow and devoted father of Alexandra and Charles and grandfather of William. A graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, Mr. Dubow became a venture capitalist and p
 ENGEL-David E. age 71, died in Boston of cancer. Former President of the Pittsburgh Board of Education. A professor emeritus of the University of Pittsburgh. He was ordained to the ministry of the Presbyterian Church, USA. Burial will be in Southwest Harbor, Maine. A memorial service in Hei
 FASTENBERG-Arthur. The Director, Board of Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the loss of Arthur Fastenberg, a friend and supporter of this Institution. His commitment to the preservation and continuance of Jewish culture made him a vital member of our community. We will always be
 FEINMAN-Max L. On December 2, 1999 at age 94. Long-time physician, surgeon and teacher. He graduated from Long Island College of Medicine and served as a Captain in the U.S. Army during WWII; Chief of Surgery at Lefferts General Hospital, affiliated with Wyckoff Heights Hospital and Doctors
 KASSOP-Harry, Dr. On December 2, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Harriet. Devoted father of Mark Kassop and Sue London. Loving grandfather of Erika, Allison, Erin and Phillip. Dr. Kassop was a prominent physician in the Forest Hills area for more than 60 years. Funeral services Sunday, 10
 LUBELL-Alan D. On December 3, 1999 at age 77. Beloved husband of Rosanne. Loving father of Michael and his wife Dena and Melissa and her husband Andrew. Proud grandfather of Zachary. Devoted uncle of Richard, Jane and Andrew Dickerman. Dear son-in-law of Sylvia Fischman. Services at Frank E
 PACE-Julian V. On December 1, 1999 at age 76. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Survived by his brother Charles R. Pace of New Hampshire. Funeral Mass at St. Joseph's Church, 404 E. 87th St., NYC, Saturday, 10:00 AM. Interment at Mount St. Mary's Cemetery, Flushing. Contributions in his name may 
 SAFRA-Edmond. The Alliance Israelite Universelle, the American Friends of the Alliance and the students of the Alliance school network mourn the passing of our devoted alumnus, cherished friend, distinguished community leader and longtime benefactor. May his memory live on through those who
 SCHUSTER-Victor. Retired architect. 68. Passed away Monday, November 29, from respiratory failure at St. Barnabas Hospital in New Jersey. He is survived by his beloved wife of forty-nine years, Magda. He is also remembered by their two children Zsuzsa and Andras, and six loving grandchildre
 Tommy Atkins, who made a dramatic escape from Poland during the cold war and later became a college librarian in New York, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla., where he had a winter residence. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. He died of kidney failure caused by a bloo
 German Arciniegas Angueyra, one of Latin America's most prolific writers and distinguished intellectuals, died in a hospital here last Monday. He would have celebrated his 99th birthday next Monday. In a literary and political career that spanned nine decades, Mr. Arciniegas (pronou
 Herbert J. Freudenberger, a psychologist who coined the term ''burnout'' for the fatigued and frazzled, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. The cause was longstanding heart complications, said his son, Marc Freud. Dr. Freudenb
 ADAMS-Joey. Congregation Ezrath Israel, the Actors' Temple mourns the loss of a very dear friend of many years. We will miss him. Robert Goldman, President Noach Valley, Rabbi ADAMS-Joey. A man filled with humanity, humor and homespun philosphy. Cindy was truly the best partner, com
 BLUM-John Alan, M.D.. ''Jack.'' Urologist, educator, father, grandfather and beloved husband, died suddenly November 30, at his home in San Diego. Born in Brooklyn, NY, February 2, 1933, son of Louis and Polly, and brother of Bob. Educated at Dartmouth College, NYU Medical School, Univerist
 CIVIC-Norman. Age 77 died suddenly of a heart attack on November 30, 1999 in Boca Raton, FL. Norman was a graduate of the Wharton School. He fought in World War II in the China-Burma area with the Flying Tigers. He was founder and President of Ruth Norman Designs with his wife, Ruth, a fash
 ELAZAR-Daniel. The Officers and Staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Daniel Elazar, Professor at Bar Ilan and Temple University and Founder of The Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs. Dr. Elazar was passionate in his committment to the Jewish people, Jerusalem 
 FEINMAN-Max L.. On December 2, 1999 at age 94. Long-time physician, surgeon and teacher. He graduated from Long Island College of Medicine and served as a Captain in the U.S. Army during WWII; Chief of Surgery at Lefferts General Hospital, affiliated with Wyckoff Heights Hospital and Doctor
 FITZMAURICE-Stephen. Actor, musician, teacher, friend. On November 4, 1999. His family and friends will celebrate his life at Charas, 605 East 9th Street (Avenue B), on December 12 from 6-9 PM. In lieu of flowers, gifts may be made to the Manhattan Center for Living.       
 GREEN-Walter. On November 26, 1999 in Palm Beach, Fl. at age 90. Devoted husband of the late Eileen Green. Lovingly remembered by his daughters, Cornelia Stebel and Lizabeth Conescu, his sister, Florence Radbill, his sonsin-law Michael Stebel and Paul Conescu, his grandsons, Ronald Conescu,
 HARRIS-Martin. March 13, 1933December 1, 1999. Adored husband of Boots (Lauren). Cherished dad of Michael, Clint, Rex, Saroya & Eytan Chissick. Playful Grandpa Marty to Patrick, Brooke, Richard, Daphna, Avital and Zev Shmvel. Cherished son of Josephine and the late Samuel. World's best frie
 MAJEWSKI-Lawrence J.. 80 of leukemia in his Wappingers Falls home December 2, 1999. Dedicated professor of art conservation and devoted friend. Survivors include his companion of 37 years Dewey Owens, a brother Andrew and several nieces and nephews. Donations may be made in his memory to th
 Myers-Donald Scott. Born West Chester, Penn, April 4, 1925, graduated Scarsdale High School and Colgate University, served in The Army Airforce as a B-24 Bomber Pilot during World War II. Donald was with the New York Telephone Company for 37 years serving as an Officer for 17 of those years
 SAFRA-Edmond. It is with profound grief, and immeasureable sorrow that we mourn with the entire House of Isreal, individuals and communities, throughout the globe the sudden death of one of our noblest princes Edmond (Son of Jacob) Safra A''H. We can not be consoled. As an early, generous, 
 SPAMPANATO-Paul. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Mr. Paul Spampanato, manager of the Edson. Paul was a dedicated, loyal and integral part of the Intrepid Museum team. He will be dearly missed. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, the Fisher
 WOLFE-Andrew Dougherty. December 2, 1999 in Pittsford, NY. Founder of Wolfe Publications. He is survived by his wife, Vivienne Tellier Wolfe; children Amy Wentworth Wolfe of North Cohocton, NY; Meg W. (Scott) Lucas of Rochester, NY; Andrew D. (Jaymie) Wolfe Jr. of Wakefield, MA; John S. (Mi
 ZAKIM-Leonard. The Reebok Human Rights Award Board of Advisors has lost an esteemed colleague and beloved friend, Lenny, age 46. We will remember him above all as a drum major for justice. May his parents, Phyllis and Gerald, his brother, Stuart, and sister, Elayna, his wife, Joyce, and the
 Philip Elman, a lawyer who handled government briefs in the Supreme Court's landmark Brown v. Board of Education case of 1954,  died on Tuesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 81 and lived in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Elman worked as an assistant in the Solicitor General's
 Pop Gates, a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame who starred for the renowned all-black Renaissance Big Five team in the late 1930's and 40's and helped pioneer the integration of the postwar professional game, died Wednesday at his home in Harlem. He was 82. The cause was heart f
 Richard M. Eakin, a professor of zoology at the University of California at Berkeley who captured the attention of his pre-med students by appearing at his lectures dressed as  Charles Darwin, Louis Pasteur, William Harvey, Gregor Mendel and other greats of science, died Nov. 25 at his home
 Sir John Foster Wilson, who was blinded by a Bunsen burner exploding in his face as a 12-year-old schoolboy and went on to lead campaigns to save millions from blindness, died in his home in Brighton, England on Nov. 24. He was 80. Sir John's principal vehicle was Sight Savers Inter
 Keith Wylie, who brought the intellect of a chess master and the cunning of a pool champion to the game of croquet, died Nov. 1 at his home near Southampton, England. He was 54. A coroner's inquest into the cause of death is continuing. Wylie was regarded as one of croquet's
 Leonard P. Zakim, executive director of the New England region of the Anti-Defamation League who was a leader in tolerance education, ethnic reconciliation and inner-city youth programs, died on Thursday of bone marrow cancer. He was 46. Mr. Zakim had used his political connections 
 Lorimer A. Davidson, a former chief executive of the Government Employees Insurance Company, who helped prove that automobile insurance could be sold without an agent, died on Nov. 27 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He lived in Rockville, Md., and was 97. Mr. Davidson created 
 ATKINS-Thomas V. We mourn the death and celebrate the life of Tommy Atkins, heroic freedom fighter, perceptive journalist, savvy political scientist, innovative educator, elegant gentleman and cherished friend. He enriched the lives of all who knew him. Our sincerest condolences to his belo
 BAIN-H. Leah (nee Buckstein) Of Colorado Springs, on December 4, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Loving mother of Trevor and Helena Bain, Barbara and Jack Graham, and Alan Bain, his wife Jae, and his late wife Ruth. Adoring grandmother of Peter, Jennifer, Troy and Machelle, Laurie Be
 BERELSON-Irving Passon On December 5, 1999. Cherished friend and husband of 60 years of Thelma. Devoted father of Ellen and father-in-law of Larry. Brother of Elliot and his wife, Suzanne. Predeceased by his beloved son, Philip Passon. Retired Senior Partner, Parker, Chapin, Flattau and Kli
 CIVIC-Norman Age 77 died suddenly of a heart attack on November 30, 1999 in Boca Raton, FL. Norman was a graduate of the Wharton School. He fought in World War II in the China-Burma area with the Flying Tigers. He was founder and President of Ruth Norman Designs with his wife, Ruth, a fashi
 CORTI-George Of Bedford Hills, NY, and Jupiter, FL, on December 3, 1999. He was 60. Beloved husband of Linda. Devoted son of Fannie and the late Hector Corti. Was President of Corona Color Studios in NYC for over 30 years and a member of the New York Athletic Club, where he served as Chairm
 DUBOW-Arthur M. Without Arthur's vision and faith, Parenting Magazine would not have existed. His brilliance, integrity and high standards changed many lives, including mine. I will so miss his guidance. My deepest condolences to Barbara, and to Alexandra and Charles. Robin Wolaner       
 ELAZAR-Daniel The Jewish Publication Society extends condolences to the family of Dr. Daniel Elazar, whose pioneering scholarship and intellectual leadership have contributed so much to so many. May his memory be for a blessing. Honorable Norma L. Shapiro President Dr. Ellen Frankel CEO and
 KLEIN-Meyer The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of Meyer Klein and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Nora, and his daughter, our colleague, Helaine Ronen, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 MURRAY-Marek S. On December 3, 1999 of Fresh Meadows, NY. Donations in his memory may be sent to the American Lung Association, 432 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10016.       
 SAFRA-Edmond J. Kronish Lieb Weiner & Hellman LLP mourns the tragic and untimely death of our dear friend and client Edmond J. Safra. For thirty years we had the honor and privilege of serving him, his family, Republic National Bank of New York and its affiliates. An extraordinarily brillia
 Dr. Sam Treiman, who was recognized for his seminal research in particle physics and for his Socratic style in passing that knowledge to his students, died Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 74 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was leukemia, said Dr. Curt
 James Ryan, the manager of the Olana State Historic Site near Hudson, N.Y., who oversaw most of the restoration of the Persian-style Victorian mansion that the 19th-century painter Frederic Edwin Church built high above the Hudson, died on Nov. 29 at Albany Medical Center. He was 57 and liv
 ATKINS-Thomas V., Ph.D. The Baruch College community mourns the death of our longtime colleague, Dr. Thomas V. Atkins. During his career at the college, Tom applied his intelligence, analytic skills and early recognition of the potential of the emerging information age to innovate a modern 
 BERELSON-Irving Passon. On December 5, 1999. Cherished friend and husband of 60 years of Thelma. Devoted father of Ellen and father-in-law of Larry. Brother of Elliot and his wife, Suzanne. Predeceased by his beloved son, Philip Passon. Retired Senior Partner, Parker, Chapin, Flattau and Kl
 BRODER-Joseph, 76. On December 4, 1999. Of Riverdale, N.Y. He is survived by his beloved wife of 53 years, Sylvia, and his three adoring children, Ivy, Marcie and Scott, nine grandchildren and one great-grandson. For his outstanding service as a navigator during World War II, he was awarded
 DiCHIERA-Edward F. On December 2, 1999 in New York City. Devoted brother of Alfred DiChiera and his wife, Elisa Irma Orellano of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Dear uncle of many nieces and nephews, and cousin to many. Retired engineer for the City of N.Y. Board of Education. Mass of Christian Bu
 ELAZAR-Daniel J. The American Sephardi Federation mourns the loss of our founding President, Dan Elazar, a committed Jew who used his high intellect for the benefit of all Jews. Leon Levy, President American Sephardi Federation       
 JOSEPH-Richard W. Community Service Providers of New York/ NY State CSP's (LIAAC, ACSWNY, ASC, ACNENY, SIATF, BAS, STAP, ACR, ACQC, BATF, ARC, and AIDS Rochester) mourn the loss of Richard W. Joseph who died on Sunday, December 5th, 1999. Richard spent the last six years as Executive Direct
 MAYER-James H., 85, husband of the late Dorothy (Lee) Mayer, died at his residence early Sunday morning following a long illness. Born in Manhattan, New York, he was the son of the late Theodore and Rose (Kurzman) Mayer. James attended the University of Miami in Ohio for 2 years and then re
 MERBER-Ivan P. Beloved father to Alec, dear companion to Hannah Scherer, loving brother to Stephanie Lench. He will be missed by friends, relatives and all he touched with his selfless generosity. Services Wednesday, December 8, noon at ''The Riverside'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.     
 NADELMAN-Seymour. Temple Beth Torah, Westbury, NY, mourns the loss of our beloved member, on November 18. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Bobbie, children and grandchildren. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Michael Katz Diane Wohl, Pr
 SAFRA-Edmond J. The congregation of the Sephardic Synagogue of Fifth Avenue mourns the tragic passing of our esteemed member Edmond J. Safra. Words cannot sufficiently express the deep grief and shock that we feel. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lily and the entire family. T
 SCHOR-Harold. Age 81. On November 24, 1999. Was a specialist in industrial public relations and advertising. He had authored a number of papers on methods of promoting industrial products and services and was a member of the Industrial Advertisers Association. A dear friend of Ormy Barreto 
 SPITZER-J. George was a chemist, inventor and entrepreneur. He created ''Rise'', the first shaving cream lather in an aerosol container. He is also responsible for numerous other innovative products. George Spitzer was also very active in the Palm Beach Community. He was a member of Boca Ri
 SHAFIGH-Shahriar. In memory of Captain Shafigh, Imperial Iranian Navy. Every year we pause to remember him, who was gunned down in Paris, France 20 years ago. We remember him for his devotion to duty and allegiance to the Constitution. His Colleagues       
 Robert A. Swanson, who co-founded Genentech Inc. and played a pivotal role in creating the biotechnology industry, died Monday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif., after a yearlong battle with brain cancer. He was 52. The death was announced by the Massachusetts Institute of Technol
 Donald J. Lloyd-Jones, president of the American Geographical Society and a former airline executive, died of lung cancer on Monday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn., his daughter Anne Calder said. He was 68 and lived in Stamford. A native New Yorker, Mr. Lloyd-Jones received 
 BOWLING-Leslie. The NYU Postdoctoral Community mourns the loss of our dear colleague and friend, Les Bowling. He was a Psychologist and Psychoanalyst in private practice, supervising faculty at the NYU Postdoctoral program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis, and faculty at the Suffolk Inst
 COHEN-Herbert. A treasured member of the Oratorio Society of New York. Herb was an active member of the Board of Directors and gave unstintingly of his time and talents as a singer and printer. We will deeply miss his warm personality and generous spirit. Our condolences to his family. Elle
 DiCHIERA-Edward F. On December 2, 1999 in New York City. Devoted brother of Alfred DiChiera and his wife, Elisa Irma Orellano of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Dear uncle of many nieces and nephews, and cousin to many. Retired engineer for the City of N.Y. Board of Education. Mass of Christian Bu
 FALIK-Leon Ari, M.D. At home after a six month illness, surrounded by his loving family, wife Ruth, daughter Imy, son Shelley, stepson William, daughters-in-law Kate and Angela. He is also survived by his son-in-law Howard, and grandchildren Debrah and Gregory. Ari was on the staffs of Deep
 FEINERMAN-Mordecai. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a beloved alumnus of Yeshiva College who was deeply respected in the Jewish Community. Sincere condolences are extended to his children Lewis Feinerman, Dr. Charisse (and Dr. Jonathan) Reiner, and Gwen (and Jeffrey) Gro
 GEDZELMAN-Bert. MAKOR and Jewish Life Network mourn the passing of Bert Gedzelman, beloved father of MAKOR's Co-Director, Rabbi David Gedzelman. He was a caring Jew and a compassionate person. Bert had a profound impact on his children and all who knew him. May the family be comforted with 
 GOLDSTEIN-Neil. It is with profound sorrow that the partners, and staff of Konigsberg Wolf & Co., P.C. mourn the passing of their partner Neil Goldstein. Neil was a devoted member of our firm. He was a dear friend of many and he will be sorely missed. To his wife, Amy, and family we extend 
 JACKSON-William E. The Board of Trustees, Executive Director and staff of the National Foundation for Facial Reconstruction wish to express their sympathy and their condolences to Nancy Jackson and her daughters on the passing of William E. Jackson. He was a long time member of the NFFR Boa
 KETCHAM-Platt Vandewater, 89, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, and most recently of Charlotte, NC, died on Dec. 6, 1999, in Charlotte. He was employed for many years at the law firm of Greenbaum, Wolff & Ernst, of New York City. He is survived by two daughters, Deborah Abels, and son-in-law Wedge 
 KIRSCHENBAUM-Henry. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the recent passing of our member and extends sincere condolences to his family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Thomas Weiner Mark A. Hershey, President       
 LEVE-Sam. Scenic designer on December 6, 1999. Survived by his daughter, Teri Leve, his sister, Lottie Weiss, nieces, nephews, friends and the many magical moments he created for the theatre. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to a Jewish school, an Art school or the Yale Drama Schoo
 MAHON-Jackson Barrett, DFC, WWII Ace, Errol Flynn's Manager, Producer, December 4, 1999 in Las Vegas. Jackson Barrett (Barry) Mahon born Santa Barbara, California, 1921. In 1941 he joined the Royal Air Force and began flying Spitfires in combat with Eagle Squadron 121. After 98 strategic mi
 MARDER-M. Rickey. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 SAFRA-Edmond J. Manhattan High School, Machon Yaakov, mourns the tragic passing of Edmond Safra, who perpetuated the memory of his father, Jacob Safra, z.l., by naming the school in his memory. He was an extraordinary philanthropist whose generosity, leadership and vision influenced the liv
 SCHWARZ-K. Robert. On December 6, 1999. Beloved son of the late Boris & devoted mother Patricia. Brother of dear Joseph & siblingin-spirit of caring friends Sue Wolf and Karl Hereim. Services private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Queens College Foundation, Queens College-C
 SMITH-Datus C., Jr. Died in Princeton, New Jersey, on November 17, 1999 at the age of 92. He played a leading role in the development of American scholarly publishing, and in the promotion of book publishing in the Third World. During his later years, he was also active in international wor
 SWANSON-Robert A. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering note with sadness the death of Robert A. Swanson, our friend and colleague. Mr. Swanson joined the Board of Overseers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in March of 1998. His potential to
 WERNER-Mitchell. Our deepest sympathy to his loving family and many friends. He was a joyous man with an inexhaustable well of ideas and dreams. We are heartbroken at his loss, but celebrate his wonderful spirit and vision. He was a great human being whose memory we will always cherish. Dav
 WILSON-John, Sir. The ORBIS International organization worldwide mourns the loss of Sir John Wilson, a legendary force in the prevention of blindness. As a founding member of ORBIS' Advisory Council, he was a great inspiration to us ever since our inception. His pioneering and unparralleled
 ZIMMER-Max J. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our senior Trustee and Benefactor Max J. Zimmer, a visionary in the building of our day school. He headed the three generations of Zimmer family members connected with our congregation. To his devoted wife, Georgia; children, Joel and 
 Robert A. Swanson, who co-founded Genentech Inc. and is considered the father of the biotechnology industry, died Monday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif., after a yearlong battle with brain cancer. He was 52. Mr. Swanson was a 29-year-old venture capitalist in 1976 when he starte
 Marvin Kratter, the New York real estate investor whose holdings once included Ebbets Field (which he eventually replaced with an apartment complex), died on Oct. 24 at a hospital in Encinitas, Calif. He was 84. The cause was pancreatitis, said his son, Leslie M. Kratter, of Hillsbo
 Dr. Nathan Jacobson, a renowned mathematician who developed fundamental theorems and concepts  and wrote many widely used textbooks, died on Sunday at his home in Hamden, Conn., near New Haven. He was 89. Dr. Jacobson, an emeritus professor of mathematics at Yale, was regarded as on
 BOWLING-Leslie, PhD. On December 7, 1999 of Forest Hills, N.Y. & Sag Harbor, N.Y. Beloved husband of Jane. Cherished stepfather of Christopher Downey. Loving brother of Marjorie Morresi. Adored uncle of Gian, Andrea and Marco Morresi. Repossing at Fox Funeral Home, 98-07 Ascan Avenue, corne
 CANNATA-Michael. Our deepest sympathy to his loving family at this very difficult time. Mike was a dedicated professional and devoted member of the Ruder Finn family for almost forty years. We valued his warmth, friendship, wisdom and sense of humor and he will be sorely missed. We are hear
 GOLDHAR-Maxwell, 82, a man who enriched the lives of his family, friends and the people of Ontario, died suddenly at home Tuesday night from a heart attack. Still active in business and pursuing his dreams through his last days, Mr. Goldhar left major accomplishments and a loving circle of 
 KELLEHER-Stephen J., Rt. Rev. Msgr. Passed away Dec. 5, 1999 in New York City. Priest of the Catholic Archdiocese of New York. Born August 31, 1915 to Stephen and Margaret (nee Morrissey) of Charville (Cork) and Johnston (Kilkenny), respectively, Ireland. Ordained in 1940, Monsignor Kellehe
 MAYRO-Jordan. Born November 30, 1929 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, died December 7, 1999. Many friends and cousins mourn his passing. He called friend Elaine Berger his ''sister.'' Jerry's Burlington Bookshop on Madison Avenue near the Metropolitan Museum was a book lover's haven. Jerry wa
 RUVOLO-Charles Sr., M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend who served our institution for more than 35 years. Dr. Ruvolo was a dedicated physician who always showed sincere concern f
 SPITZER-J. George. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime former member, J. George Spitzer and extend to his bereaved wife Sylvia and the members of his family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin L
 TAUBE-Harry, MD, at the age of 85, on December 7, 1999 in New York City. Beloved husband of Annette Nathan Taube, devoted father of Susan Taube Katchor of New York City, Steven Taube of McLean, VA., and Oscar Taube of Baltimore, MD. Beloved father-inlaw of Mary Taube, Jean Taube and Benjami
 HARRIS-Hilary Tjader (12/9/29-10/ 27/99). On his 70th birthday, we mourn the loss of a creative genius, a warm and loyal friend, and an extraordinary human soul       
 Don (Sugarcane) Harris, a violinist, singer and songwriter who played blues, jazz and rock, was found dead on Dec. 1 in his Los Angeles apartment by his landlord, Agence France-Presse reported. He was 61. His longtime collaborator, Dewey Terry, said Mr. Harris had suffered from pulm
 Fritz Fischer, the German historian who rankled his peers and Germans in general with the thesis that Imperial Germany was squarely responsible for World War I and its consequences, died on Dec. 1 in Hamburg. He was 91. Dr. Fischer, a Hamburg resident, had been a professor emeritus 
 BLOOMFIELD-Joseph. It is with deep sorrow that the BMP Family Circle annouces the death of our beloved member, Joe. We mourn the loss of Ruth's cherished husband and Beth, Amy and Linda's loving father. Our condolences to sister Blanche, sons-in-law Charlie and Quincy and grandchildren Case
 ELAZAR-Daniel. The North American Fellows of The Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs/Center for Jewish Community Studies mourn the passing of Professor Daniel J. Elazar, Founder and President, whose brilliant and visionary scholarly work coupled with his skills as an institution builder inf
 HERNDON-Venable. New York University's Tisch School of the Arts and the Dramatic Writing Program express their deep sorrow at the passing of Venable Herndon, longtime beloved teacher of screenwriting. He was a gifted writer whose work was an exemplar to our students. We extend our sincere c
 JOHNSON-Max. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member, Max Johnson. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 MARBUT-Terrell Clifford. Of Sands Point, New York. Died December 8, 1999 at age 91. Devoted husband of Katharine Lott Marbut, father of Katharine Marbut Ullman and Clifford Daniel Marbut, grandfather of Laura Ullman Schwartz, Susan Katharine Ullman, Valerie Ullman Taylor and Frank Clifford 
 MAYRO-Jerry. Bibliophile, Philanthropist, Cherished Friend. He touched the lives of all who entered his Burlington Bookshop. Each time he left a friend he never said ''goodbye.'' So we say: '' 'til we meet again.'' The Partners of LCS & Z Glickman Lutz       
 MONNESS-Billie Heller. Our deepest sympathy to Andy and Matt and the entire Heller Monness community of family and friends. Billie, you are gone, but you will never be forgotten. We truly loved you. Our hearts are broken. Laurie, Frank, Logan and Jensen MONNESS-Billie Heller. The Sh
 SAFRA-Edmond J. Yad Avraham Institute, its Officers, Directors and members record with deep sorrow and mourn the tragic and untimely loss of our beloved and esteemed patron. For the past decade, he provided a home for us with love and enthusiasm in his Beit Yaakov Synagogue. His support ena
 SHIRK-Stanley E. On Dec. 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Barbara. Father of Richard and Susan Shirk, and grandfather of Lucy & David Popkin. Memorial service will be held December 17, 11 A.M. at the Unitarian Church of All Souls, 1157 Lexington Avenue, New York City. In lieu of flowers, contrib
 SUN-An-Chu, 65 years old, in Shanghai, China. Farewell to a brave, virtuous man and loving father, husband and grandfather. The world will miss him as will his family and many friends. Love, Gu-Yan, Ching, Min, Wen and Ping       
 SWANSON-Robert A., the founder of the biotech industry, died at his home in Hillsborough, CA. on December 6, 1999, after a 14-month battle with brain cancer. At his bedside were his wife Judy Church Swanson, their daughters Katie and Erica and his mothr, Arline Baker Swanson, of Foster City
 TABBAT-Samuel Frances, M.D. December 8, in his 86th year. Alumnus of NYU College of Medicine and Fellow of the Menninger and Austen Riggs Foundations of Psychiatry. Member of Mt. Sinai Hospital Department of Psychiatry since 1948 as Attending Physician and Assistant Clinical Professor of Ps
 TAUBE-Harry, MD. The Members of The Department of Medicine are saddened by the demise of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Harry Taube. Dr. Taube, Professor of Clinical Medicine, has been with us for over 50 years. He was a gentle man, scholar, researcher, teacher, mentor, and model to all
 YERUKHOVICH-LAZAR. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 ZOPPEL-Ronald, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Ronald Zoppel. Dr. Zoppel was with the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for over thirty years. He was very active in the leadership of the medical staff and served as its 
 Victor Perlo, a Marxist economist whose career was damaged by accusations during the Red scare of the late 1940's and early 1950's that he spied for the Soviet Union in Washington during World War II, died Dec. 1 at his home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 87. Mr. Perlo had difficu
 William Eldred Jackson, a New York lawyer with an international clientele that included Nelson A. Rockefeller, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, the King of Morocco and Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 80 and also had
 Datus C. Smith Jr., former director of the Princeton University Press, died on Nov. 17 at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Hightstown, N.J. Mr. Smith, who was president of the Association of American University Presses from 1947 to 1949, was director of t
 Harrison Sanford, a coach revered by his Cornell oarsmen, died last Saturday in Gulfport, Miss. He was 96. Until recently, Sanford had lived in San Marcos, Calif., before moving to Gulfport, where his son, John, lives. Sanford, who was known as Stork and who coached the men'
 Niccolo Tucci, an author best known for his autobiographical fiction evoking a European childhood and a wonderful and monstrous Russian grandmother, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Mr. Tucci, the author of four books in English and three in Italian, was a colorfu
 DROZDOFF - Alexander ''Ali'' passed on December 8, 1999, age 9. Beloved son of Vivian and Fred touched the heartstrings of everyone who knew him. The family will receive their friends Sunday at 9:30 AM at Patti & Mikatarian Funeral Home, 327 Main Street, Fort Lee, NJ, (201) 944-0100. Religi
 GARLIN-Sender. Tireless fighter in the struggle for social justice, died peacefully at his home in Boulder, CO on December 6 at age 97. Author of the book ''Three American Radicals'' and many articles and pamphlets as a labor journalist. A captivating speaker with incisive wit and remarkabl
 GOLDNER-John A. On December 10, 1999 at the age of 88. Loving husband of the late Helen. John died at his home in Elmhurst, NY. Mr. Goldner worked for the Madison Square Garden his entire career, except for WWII. Mr. Goldner was Booking Manager for all of the Garden's sporting events, and h
 GORINSKY - Emanuel. Beloved husband of the late Minnie Gorinsky and father of Michael, Joel and Gerald. Beloved grandfather of Elizabeth, Samuel & Alexander. Loving brother of Etta Kremans. Proprietor for many years of Big Mac's Produce on 86th St-Bensonhurst, Mermaid Ave-Coney, Coney Islan
 HIRSCH-Aaron. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Aaron Hirsch. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife and to all of his family. Hampshire Country Club, Board of Governors Norman Zarkin, Preside
 HOLCOMBE-Browning Jr. Of Greenwich, Connecticut. Beloved husband of Carolyn and father of Elizabeth B. Sengle of Hinesburg, Vermont; Karen H. Pet of Barrington, Rhode Islane; Jane H. Tranfo of Greenwich, Connecticut and Browning Holcombe, III of Jamison, Pennsylvania. Devoted brother of Sal
 WAINE-Hans, Dr., medical leader, pioneer in the then new field of rheumatology, journalist and historian, died on December 5. Born in 1907 in Hagen, Germany, Dr. Waine earned a PhD under the noted Swiss Theologian Karl Barth prior to his medical career. He was Foreign Editor for the Berline
 President Franjo Tudjman, the onetime Communist general who as a reborn nationalist led Croatia in 1991 into secession from Yugoslavia, and from there to independence and war, has died, Croatian state television announced early today. He was 77. ''The president of Croatia, the found
 ADELSON-Judah. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with deep sorrow the passing of Professor Judah Adelson, member of the Associate Board of Directors since 1977. Professor Adelson was an active member who in 1990 received the Brookdale Medal, the highest distinctio
 ALEXAKOS-Demetrios P.., 72, of 249 Woodruff Ave., Wakefield, RI, a marine engineer and industrialist ship owner, died Thursday at home. He was the husband of Frances M. (Sciabarrasi) Alexakos and the late Yotta (Fanis) Alexakos. Born in Gytheon, Greece, he was a son of Afroditi (Tsigourakos
 BRENNER-Michael. The staff, Board of Directors, and volunteers of God's Love We Deliver are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Michael Brenner, our dearly loved friend and evening Head Chef. Mike was always at his best when he was able to help others, whether it was greeting our eveni
 FEINERMAN-Mordechai, Cantor. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of Cantor Mordechai Feinerman, our first Cantor and extends heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 GLASS-Ruth. On December 11, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Seymour; loving mother of Elliott and David; dear grandmother of Joshua, Zachary, Tamara and Cameron; fond sister of Miriam Revkin. Services today, at 1 PM, from Parkside Chapel Queens. Interment to follow at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, G
 GOLDSTEIN-Rhoda (Sokol). On Dec. 9, 1999. Beloved mother of Michael and Rebecca Goldstein, of Providence, Rhode Island, and Laurie and Bruce Bendell, of Roslyn, New York. Devoted sister of David and Melba Sokol, of Boca Raton, FL. Cherished grandmother of Noah and Anne Goldstein, & Jamie, H
 GORINSKY - Emanuel. Beloved husband of the late Minnie Gorinsky and father of Michael, Joel and Gerald. Beloved grandfather of Elizabeth, Samuel & Alexander. Loving brother of Etta Kremans. Proprietor for many years of Big Mac's Produce on 86th St-Bensonhurst, Mermaid Ave-Coney, Coney Islan
 GRABER-Edward A., M.D.. The faculty and staff of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Weill Medical College of Cornell University are saddened by the passing of our colleague and friend, Edward A. Graber, M.D., Professor Emeritus of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology. Dr. Graber, 
 JOHNSON-Joseph Benny., died November 29, 1999 in Brooklyn, New York at the age of 84. Joseph was educated in DeKalb, Missouri. He later accepted Christ as an adult in Laurel, Missouri. On August 21, 1941 he served in the 761st Tank Battalion, which was known as the First Negro Armored Force
 MAIDMAN-William. 95, of Hollywood, FL; formerly of NYC and Great Neck, NY. On Saturday, December 11. Beloved husband of Ada and of the late Aida; father of Richard (Gail), David (Nancy) and Bonnie; cherished grandfather of Patrick (Jacqueline), Mitchel (Arlene), Gregory, Dagny, Randi (Howar
 McKENZIE-Thomas, M.D.. The Medical Staff of Metropolitan Hospital Center and the New York Medical College Department of Medicine mourn the passing of our colleague, Thomas McKenzie, MD. Dr. McKenzie served the patients of Metropolitan's East Harlem community as a compassionate, competent pr
 MIESMER-Charles W.. Age 81. Beloved and devoted husband of Virginia Zarou Miesmer, died peacefully, November 11, 1999 at New York Hospital. Born in Hoboken, NJ, December 13, 1917, he was the only son of the late Lauretta and William Miesmer. He served in the U.S. Navy during WWII. He spent 
 MILLER-Philip. 86. Predeceased by cherished wife Frances. Beloved father of Sandra (Geoff) Conway & Dr. Harvey (Linda) Miller & grandfather of Jennifer, Francesca & Jonathan. Lifetime member of Fabric Salesmens Assoc. Volunteer, two term president of Aging in America. His wisdom, warmth, hu
 MOSKOWITZ-Miriam. Of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Long Beach, NY. Beloved wife of Philip for 68 years. Cherished mother of Sandra, Roberta, David, Stanley and Kenneth. Loved mother-in-law of Leonard, Susan, Viviane and Francine. Devoted grandmother of 23 and great-grandmother of 23. We love you
 NOVELL - Maurice. Peacefully and with dignity this wonderful 97 year old man leaves a legacy of love and kindness. Devoted father of Jack, Sylvia Cooper and Arthur. Loving father-in-law of Dr. Stuart Cooper and Patricia Novell. Proud grandfather of five grandchildren and nine great-grandchi
 PODBER-Irving., 92, born in Poland, came to the U.S. in 1918, died peacefully on December 4, 1999. He successfully ran Housewives Laundry for 50 years. He was a kind and generous man who was dearly loved by all who knew him. He is survived by his daughter, Selma Askinazy, three grandsons an
 ROSENBAUM-Bernard. Died on December 7, 1999 at age 92. He leaves his wife Ruth, two children Fred and Laura Randall, and their spouses, a stepson, six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his first wife Frances. Bernard was a CPA, an active community worke
 RUBIN-Israel. December 4, 1999. Beloved husband of Anna Halberstam Rubin. Beloved father of Edward Rubin, Haya Rubin and Miriam Kipper and beloved zayda of nine. A Holocaust survivor, he was Emeritus Professor of Sociology at Cleveland State University. Despite a deep and broad knowledge of
 SAFRA-Edmond J.. Yad Avraham Institute, its Officers, Directors and members record with deep sorrow and mourn the tragic and untimely loss of our beloved and esteemed patron. For the past decade, with love and enthusiasm, he provided a home for us in his Beit Yaakov Synagogue. His support e
 SASLOW-Seymour G.. Died December 11, after a long illness. Survived by his devoted wife Claire, children Martha and David Maisel, Doris and Peter Tilles and grandchildren Brenda, Diana, Lilly and Ben. Private family services.       
 SILVERMAN-Roy Mitchell., lost his valiant and courageous battle with cancer on December 3, 1999. While his family, friends and associates will dearly miss him, we are comforted knowing Roy's goodness and gentle spirit will live on in the hearts of all who knew him. In lieu of flowers and in
 SWANSON-Robert. Bob's spirit and leadership provided the world with a new industry, impacted the lives of many patients and enriched our careers beyond measure. He built the special place we are proud to call Genentech. Our condolences to his mother, wife and daughters Sandra Braem, Sharon 
 Rick Danko, a singer and bass player in the Band, revered as one of the most important rock acts of the 1960's and 70's for its work with Bob Dylan and its first albums as a group, died in his sleep on Friday at his home in Marbletown, N.Y. He was 56. The cause was unknown, said Dr.
 Sam Leve, a scenic and lighting designer, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan. His work set the mood for more than 100 Broadway and Metropolitan Opera productions, as well as events for five presidential administratio
 Sir Rupert Hart-Davis, a highly energetic Englishman of letters whose rich careers in publishing, editing and writing spanned nearly six decades, died on  Wednesday in North Yorkshire, England, his family said. He was 92. In the late 1940's and early 50's, Sir Rupert was the owner o
 Irving Passon Berelson, a retired New York lawyer and philanthropist, died last Sunday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Berelson retired in 1995 as a senior partner at the Manhattan law firm Parker Chapin Flattau & Klimpl, which he joined in 1943.     
 Lloyd Rodwin, an internationally influential authority on urban studies and planning, died on Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 80 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Professor Rodwin retired in 198
 Msgr. Stephen J. Kelleher, who gained wide attention in 1968, when, as presiding judge of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York's marriage tribunal, he urged the church to abolish such courts and allow Catholics greater freedom to remarry, died on Dec. 5 at a church residence in Manhat
 BAIDA-Peter. On December 10, 1999. Loving husband of Diane J. Cole. Loving father of Edward A. Baida. Loving son of Irwin and Lillian Baida. Loving son-in-law of Dr. Alfred and the late Roselda Cole. Beloved nephew of Louis and Toby Berger, Dr. Norman and Margot Zipper. Loving friend and co
 BENNETT-Bernard E. On December 12, 1999. Loving husband to Lois, devoted father to Michael and Stacey Bennett, Lisa and Michael Ades. Cherished brother of Gertrude Bernstein, Blanche and Edward Kaplan, the late George Bennett, and Lainie and Larry Charmatz. Adoring uncle of Danny and Doris 
 COHEN-Abraham, Dr. On December 11, 1999, at the age of 82. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of Mark and Jill, and Bobby and Louise. Proud and adoring grandfather of Seth, Sarah and David. He served his country in the US Navy. A dedicated educator with the NYC Public Schools for ove
 FONER-Jack. The officers and staff of 1199 National Health & Human Service Employees Union, SEIU/AFL-CIO mourn the death of Jack Foner, distinguished historian and fighter for human rights. The four Foner brothers-Jack, his late twin brother Phil, Moe, a founder of 1199, and Henry, a trade 
 GOLDSTEIN-Joseph. Age 100. On December 10, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Bessie; loving father of Arthur and Roberta Goldstein, Arlene and Norman Oppenheim; adoring grandfather of Beth and Harold Raucher, Lynn and Jon Norton, Seth and Kathy, Josh and Ellen, David and Jennifer Oppenheim;
 MAIDMAN-William. 95, of Hollywood, FL; formerly of NYC and Great Neck, NY. On Saturday, December 11. Beloved husband of Ada and of the late Aida; father of Richard (Gail), David (Nancy) and Bonnie; cherished grandfather of Patrick (Jacqueline), Mitchel (Arlene), Gregory, Dagny, Randi (Howar
 MARKOWITZ-Max, M.D. 86 years. Max Markowitz was a man for all seasons. He was an elegant man with strong values and convictions. An individual of deep intensity and insight, he was always a man of responsibility with a strong sense of right and wrong. Always the professional, he helped so m
 ROSENBAUM-Bernard. Died on December 7, 1999 at age 92. He leaves his wife Ruth, two children Fred and Laura Randall, and their spouses, a stepson, six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his first wife Frances. Bernard was a CPA, an active community worke
 Stanley E. Shirk, a former executive at the accounting firm KPMG who was once nominated to be comptroller of the currency, died on Dec. 7 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Shirk, who lived in West Cornwall, Conn., was born on June 12, 1916, in Brooklyn and graduated from St
 Whitey Kurowski, who surmounted a severe arm injury as a youngster and became one of the major leagues' top third basemen of the 1940's and a World Series hero for the St. Louis Cardinals, died last Thursday at a physical rehabilitation center in Shillington, Pa. He was 81. Kurowski
 John N. Popham IV, who drove a green Buick 50,000 miles a year across the American South as the first northern newspaper correspondent to cover the region regularly, died in a Chattanooga hospital on Sunday. He was 89. Mr. Popham cultivated all kinds of Southerners, from governors t
 Joseph Heller, the author of ''Catch-22,'' the darkly comic 1961 novel whose title became a universal metaphor not only for the insanity of war but also for the madness of life itself, died on Sunday night at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, hi
 BAIDA-Peter. The staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center notes with sadness the death of their dear friend and colleague, Peter Baida. Peter began his career at Memorial Sloan-Kettering over 20 years ago. During that time he conveyed the importance of Memorial Sloan-Kettering's work
 BALTER-Marjiann. The Board of Directors of 880 Fifth Ave. Corp. express sincere and heartfelt condolences to our Treasurer, fellow Director, and friend, Henry Balter, on the death of his wife, Marjiann. On behalf of the Board, shareholders, and employees of ''880'', our deepest sympathies a
 BENNETT-Bernard. With deep and heartfelt sympathy we mourn the loss of our very dear family member and friend, Bernie; our hearts go out to his beloved and beautiful wife Lois, our dear and wonderful daughter-in-law and son, Lisa and Michael Ades, and Bernie and Lois' beloved son and daught
 CADMUS-Paul. Age 94. Artist. Born NYC 1904. Died peacefully at his home in Weston, CT. on December 12, 1999. Beloved companion of Jon Anderson for the past 35 years. Dear brother of Fidelma Cadmus Kirstein and brother-inlaw of Lincoln Kirstein, both deceased. Paul Cadmus was an elegant, dig
 DAVIES-Laurence E. Of Huntington, L.I., formerly of Flushing, New York on December 12, 1999. He was retired after 38 years with NYPD, faithfully having served with the Motorcycle Division for 28 years. United States Navy, WWII Veteran. Beloved father of Jane D. Stiger and John L. Davies. Ad
 FENTON-Richard Lewis. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Richard Lewis Fenton, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who 
 HALE-John P., Esq. The Board of Trustees, the priests, religious and staff of The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York record with heartfelt sympathy the death of our dear friend, John P. Hale, Esq. He served as special counsel to Catholic Charities for child care & as a valued
 HELLER-Joseph. We mourn the passing of Joseph Heller, a wonderful neighbor, an inspired novelist and a lifetime honoree of the Academy of the Arts of Guild Hall, East Hampton. Ruth Appelhof, Executive Director Edward Bleier, Chairman, Academy of the Arts Melville Straus, Chairman of the Boa
 MAIDMAN-William. 95, of Hollywood, FL; formerly of NYC and Great Neck, NY. On Saturday, December 11. Beloved husband of Ada and of the late Aida; father of Richard (Gail), David (Nancy) and Bonnie; cherished grandfather of Patrick (Jacqueline), Mitchel (Arlene), Gregory, Dagny, Randi (Howar
 TUCKER-Frank Philip. Died peacefully at home on December 9, 1999 at age 92. Mechanical Engineer and Industrialist who founded Estey Metal Products, the largest manufacturer of library shelving in the world. He leaves his wife of 65 years, Helen Crater, children Frank Philip, Jr., and Joan C
 FEUERSTEIN-James. On the occasion of his ''Shloshim'', we remember with gratitude & affection this dear and special friend. His efforts to build strong and healthy Israel will always be cherished. Condolences to his wife, Helene, son, Lewis, brothers, Sidney and Arnold and the entire family
 Charles Earland, an organist and saxophonist who was a popular exponent of the soul-jazz idiom in the 1970's, died on Saturday at the Holiday Inn hotel in Kansas City, Mo., the morning after playing a concert. He was 58 and lived in Matteson, Ill. The cause was heart failure, said h
 Dr. James C. Parkes II, the orthopedic surgeon who mended Willis Reed's strained thigh well enough for the Knicks to win the 1970 National Basketball Association championship, died on Monday in his Manhattan home. He was 64. His two daughters said he had been suffering from a progre
 Nunzio Joseph Palladino, a retired nuclear engineer who steered the Nuclear Regulatory Commission through some rough years after the nuclear power accident at Three Mile Island near Harrisburg, Pa., died on Sunday at Centre Community Hospital in College Park, Pa. He was 83 and lived in Coll
 BENNETT-Bernard. With deep and heartfelt sympathy we mourn the loss of our very dear family member and friend, Bernie; our hearts go out to his beloved and beautiful wife Lois, our dear and wonderful daughter-in-law and son, Lisa and Michael Ades, and Bernie and Lois' beloved son and daught
 BROOK-Paige. The PhilharmonicSymphony Society of New York, Inc., notes with sadness the death of Paige Brook, who joined the Philharmonic in 1952 and retired from the Orchestra as Associate Principal Flute in 1988. Prior to becoming a member of the Philharmonic, he studied at the Eastman Sc
 CADMUS-Paul. Age 94. Artist. Born NYC 1904. Died peacefully at his home in Weston, CT. on December 12, 1999. Beloved companion of Jon Anderson for the past 35 years. Dear brother of Fidelma Cadmus Kirstein and brother-inlaw of Lincoln Kirstein, both deceased. Paul Cadmus was an elegant, dig
 FENTON-Richard. The Board of Directors of 936 Fifth Avenue Corporation offers its condolences to the family of Richard Fenton. Mr. Fenton was a neighbor and valued member of the Board of Directors of 936 Fifth Avenue. His contribution through the years to the building's operations and succe
 FITZGERALD-W. Francis. The Board of Managers of Lincoln Hall mourn the passing of our beloved Board member, W. Francis FitzGerald. Frank faithfully served on the Board for 50 years as Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer. He was also Chairman of the Executive and Finance Committees and w
 GALESI-Constantine ''Denny''. Of New Vernon, NJ on Monday, December 13, 1999. Beloved husband of Barbara (Nee Ince) Galesi. Loving father of Alexandra, Francesca, Arianna, Constantine ''Pablo'', Gabriel ''Max'' and Christian Galesi. Also survived by his Grandson, Julian and his brothers, Fr
 HELLER-Joseph. The GuillainBarre Syndrome Foundation International mourns the passing of Honorary Board Member Joseph Heller. Mr. Heller was an outstanding spokesperson for this rare neurologic disorder educating both the lay and medical communities through his writings and interviews. The 
 KAUNITZ-Dr. Paul Ehrlich. Of Westport, Connecticut died in Jacksonville, Florida on December 12, of complications following upon a stroke. For more than forty years, Dr. Kaunitz was a professor of clinical psychiatry at the Yale University College of Medicine where he was an esteemed mentor
 La HAYE-Peter. All of us at ORBIS International, the non-profit organization dedicated to saving sight worldwide through hands on training, public health educaton and improved access to eyecare in the developing world, are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Peter La Haye of Medina, 
 MAIDMAN-William. 95, of Hollywood, FL; formerly of NYC and Great Neck, NY. On Saturday, December 11. Beloved husband of Ada and of the late Aida; father of Richard (Gail), David (Nancy) and Bonnie; cherished grandfather of Patrick (Jacqueline), Mitchel (Arlene), Gregory, Dagny, Randi (Howar
 MERRILL-Todd G. Died Tuesday, December 7, 1999 in Bronx, NY. In loving memory of our beloved son and best friend. The years we shared together as a family are treasured forever. Todd will always be a part of us and our love for Todd is without end. Todd is always in our hearts and thoughts.
 NELSON-Leonard, Dr., founding Chairman and Emeritus Professor of Physiology at the Medical College of Ohio at Toledo, died Wednesday, December 8, in the Heartland of Perrysburg Nursing Center near Toledo. He was 79. He died almost eight weeks after suffering an incapacitating stroke. Born i
 PARKES-James C. II, M.D. On December 13, 1999 at age 64. Beloved husband of Margaret, loving father of of Susan Parkes-Cirignano, and her husband, Edward, and Jacqueline Parkes Hendrix, and her husband, Brian. Devoted grandfather of James, Christopher, Grace, Creighton, and John Edward. Fri
 SHIRK-Stanley E. Former executive who served as a member of the Board of Directors of Bache Securities and many of the Prudential Mutual Funds, died on December 7 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Shirk also received an Honorary Doctorate from his alma mater, St.John's University i
 STERN-Jonathan Dwight Jr., in his 58th year, of East Grand Rapids, Michigan; Westfield, NJ; and Orient, LI, suddenly on December 11, 1999. A member of the American Stock Exchange. Loving husband of Katherine (nee Hardy). Devoted son of Margaret Stern. Dear step-father of Michael, Matthew, C
 Patrick Bedford, who performed in many Broadway shows and played opposite Sandy Dennis in the 1967 film ''Up the Down Staircase,'' died on Nov. 20 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said Patricia O'Haire, a friend. Mr. Bedford, who was bor
 Paul Cadmus, an American artist noted for a virtuosic figurative style that he applied to subjects ranging from biting social satire to moralizing allegories to sensual, sometimes sentimental male nudes, died on Sunday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 94. Mr. Cadmus found his ins
 Stane Dolanc, a former deputy to Marshal Tito, the Yugoslav leader, and later a member of a joint presidency that governed the nation, died on Monday in Ljubljana, Slovenia. He was 74. He died after illness brought on by a stroke several months ago, news reports said. In recent year
 Venable Herndon, a playwright and screenwriter who taught dramatic writing at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts, died on Dec. 8 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was acute leukemia, said Louise Bernikow, a friend. 
 William Maidman, a plumbing and fittings manufacturer who was also a major real estate owner and manager in New York, died on Saturday at his home in Hollywood, Fla. He was 95. Mr. Maidman was vice president of the Central Foundry Company, which had offices or plants in New York, Ne
 Charles P. (Chuck) Colgan, a Philadelphia educator who had a long association with rowing as an oarsman, coach and referee, died on Nov. 30 at his home in Ardmore, Pa. He was 72. The cause was prostate cancer, a family member said. Rowing for the University of Pennsylvania a
 Douglas Leigh, the dazzling impresario of electrical splendor who festooned Broadway with miles of electrical signs, a gargantuan steaming coffee pot and the celebrated giant Camel sign that puffed smoke rings, died Tuesday in a Manhattan hospital. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan and Palm 
 Jack D. Foner, a professor of American history who established one of the country's first programs in black studies and later became a victim of political blacklisting, died on Friday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Foner was caugh
 AHRENS-George. 94 on December 14. Beloved husband of the late Eleanore. Devoted father of Bob. Loving grandfather of Jody and Daryl. He will be missed.       
 BERSON-Harold E., M.D. Of Stuart, FL. Beloved husband of Florence (Selikowitz), devoted father of Drs. Diane and Mark Lebowitz, and Denise and Mitchell Tanzman, loving grandfather of Alex, Emily, Danielle and Olivia. Past President of the Brooklyn Psychiatric and Neurology Societies. Life f
 CADMUS-Paul. All of us at SAGE are deeply saddened by the passing of Paul Cadmus. He enriched our community with his wit, his exceptional powers of observation and his artistic skill. In November 1999, SAGE honored him with a Lifetime Achievement Award for his honesty and his insight, and f
 COLE-Paul C., 86, of Merriam, KS, died December 13, 1999. Funeral services will be at 10 AM Dec. 20, 1999 at St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal Church, Mission, KS. Paul was born in 1913 in Brooklyn, NY. Paul worked for R.H. Macy & Co., 1933-1993. He was vice president and director in Mis
 DAVIS-Jeff, M.D. December 15, 1999. Beloved husband of Virginia. Loving stepfather of Gale Crawford. Cherished step grandfather of Chatham Crawford. He was a pioneer in the diagnosis and treatment of melanoma. Memorial service Friday, December 17, 1999 at 3PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 FENTON-Richard. The Board of Directors of 936 Fifth Avenue Corporation offers its condolences to the family of Richard Fenton. Mr. Fenton was a neighbor and valued member of the Board of Directors of 936 Fifth Avenue. His contribution through the years to the building's operations and succe
 GORDON-Isidore. ''Life, we learn too late, is in the living, the tissue of every day and hour.'' Naomi and Ilana Gordon GORDON-Isidore. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, supporter and financial advisor, who together with his late beloved wife, Yaffa Gordon, 
 HALBRIGHT-Edward Egon. Of Teaneck New Jersey. Died peacefully after forty six years of marriage with Willie (nee Goldschmidt) at the young age of seventy-one, after an illness. His childhood in Berlin was interrupted by World War II, during which he and his brother Irwin became refugees in 
 HERNDON-Venable. He was my Morrie seven days a week; A true father figure of the NYU family. He always talked; I will always listen. Mark Adams Taylor       
 LEBOWITZ-Seymour. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Janet Yamin, Arieh Lebowitz and father-in-law of Shaul Yamin. Loving grandfather of Ilana and Daniella. Services ''Wien & Wien'', Thursday, 12 Noon, Gramercy Chapel, 152 2nd Ave, (9-10 Sts). LEBOWITZ-Seymour. The Execut
 SHEDLOVSKY - RICHARD.The Board of Directors, Administration and Staff of the Hebrew Hospital Home deeply mourn the loss of Richard Shedlovsky, their former Executive Director (1960-1992) and fellow member of the Board of Directors (1992-1999). Our deepest sympathies go out to his wife Ruth,
 SHIRK-Stanley E. The partners and employees of KPMG mourn the loss of their respected colleague who died in New York City on December 7, and offer their condolences to his family. A teacher and mentor, Stanley will always be remembered for his dedication and devotion to the firm and its cli
 VIGLASS-Anthony G., of Huntington, L.I., on Dec. 13, 1999. Husband of Muriel and survived by three children and three grandchildren. A great and wonderful man who will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Visiting 2-5 and 7-9 PM Friday at Brueggemann Funeral Home, 522 Larkfield Rd., E. Nor
 WINTERBERG-Mary. The Board of Governors and Members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of Mary Winterberg, wife of our former President, S. Jay Winterberg, and extend sincere condolences to him and his family. Paul N. Gardner, President       
 Early Wright, who became a legend in the blues-drenched Mississippi Delta as one of the South's first black disc jockeys, died in a Memphis hospital on Dec. 10. He was 84. For more than half a century, Mr. Wright broadcast blues and gospel to the people of the Delta on radio station
 Milton A. Rudin, an entertainment lawyer who represented celebrities from Marilyn Monroe to Liza Minnelli and who for more than 30 years was Frank Sinatra's chief counsel, defender, investment partner and friend, died Monday of pneumonia at a rehabilitation center near his home in Beverly H
 BERSON-Harold E., M.D. Of Stuart, FL. Beloved husband of Florence (Selikowitz), devoted father of Drs. Diane and Mark Lebowitz, and Denise and Mitchell Tanzman, loving grandfather of Alex, Emily, Danielle and Olivia. Past President of the Brooklyn Psychiatric and Neurology Societies. Life f
 DELSENER-Ethel (nee Klein) December 15, 1999. Age 93. Beloved wife of Ackley Vincent Delsener for 68 years. Devoted mother of Harriette Delsener and Ronald Delsener. Cherished grandmother of Robert Jeffrey Riley, Scott David Riley and Samantha Leigh Delsener and great grandmother of Enzo Ri
 ENDLICH-Meyer. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 FONER-Jack. The board and staff of The New-York Historical Society recognize his pioneering work in American history and send condolences to his family. Betsy Gotbaum, President       
 HERNDON-Venable. He was my Morrie seven days a week: a true father figure of the NYU family. Mark Adams Taylor       
 KLEIN-Jack A. Age 64. A 5th-6th grade teacher at P.S. 175, Queens for 33 years. Died December 16, 1999 of cancer. Survivors are his sister Jill Chaliff, two nieces and one nephew of Atlanta, and life partner Keith Olds of Forest Hills. Services at 10 A.M., on Sunday, December 19, Schwartz B
 MARKOWITZ-Max. The staff, faculty and Trustees for the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health were deeply saddened to learn of the loss of Max Markowitz, M.D. Dr. Markowitz was affiliated with the Center from its inception in the 1940s through his retirement in the 1970s. He served brilliant
 SHERMAN-Martin. 83, of Forest Hills, died on December 16 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. Mr. Sherman was the owner of ''Glass Art'', located on East 75th Street in Manhattan, which he established in 1967. Mr. Sherman was well known to many in the antiques and interior decoration pro
 TAPLEY-Donald F. The Health Sciences Division of Columbia University mourns the loss of Donald F. Tapley, Dean of the College of Physicians & Surgeons from 1973-1984 and, at the time of his death, Senior Deputy Vice President for the Health Sciences and Alumni Professor of Medicine. As a fa
 Peter G. La Haye Sr., a leader in developing technologies to help people see better, died Sunday when his private plane crashed in Pennsylvania on its way to New Jersey from Seattle. Mr. La Haye was 59 and lived in Medina, Wash. Mr. La Haye was on his way to a board meeting in New Y
 Prof. Donald Fraser Tapley, dean of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons during 10 years of robust growth, died on Thursday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 72 and lived in Palisades and Hamden, N.Y. The cause was cardiac arrest, the university r
 George H. Eversman, an advertising executive in New York and Detroit who helped the United States Marine Corps with its recruitment efforts, died in a Denver hospital on Wednesday after contracting a bone-marrow disorder. He was 72. Mr. Eversman suffered an infection after receiving
 Henry Helstoski, a former New Jersey congressman whose bright career in government all but ended in 1976 when he was indicted -- but never tried or found guilty -- on charges of accepting a bribe, died on Thursday at a hospice in Wayne, N.J. He was 75. The cause was prostate cancer,
 BANKS-J. Eugene. A limited partner of Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., died on December 16, 1999 at Hightstown, New Jersey. He was 91 years old. He maintained homes in St. James, New York and Hightstown, New Jersey. Mr. Banks had been with Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. from 1942 until his dea
 FITZGERALD-W. Francis.93, of West Hartford, CT and formerly of Somers, NY, died on December 13, 1999 at Avery Heights Nursing Home, West Hartford, CT. He had worked as a banking and real estate financial consultant in NYC. He is survived by his daughters, Barbara Runde, Janet and Peggy Fitz
 HARTNETT-James F. (retired Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.) on December 16, 1999. Devoted brother of Joan (Jack) Breslin and Margaret Kelly. Dear uncle and great uncle to many nieces and nephews. Beloved nephew of Anne Dolan. Cherished friend of Agnes Koczka. Fond cousin and friend to many.
 NAST-Thomas D. Of Rye, NY, died on December 16,. 1999 at the age of 85 years. Husband of Janet Baldwin Nast. Father of Lawrence D., Thomas B., Cynthia C. & Tricia Nast Beran. Grandfather of seven. Member of Sunningdale Country Club. Also a member of World Presidents' Organization (Metro Cha
 TAPLEY-Donald F. M.D. Friends and colleagues at the Columbia University Stroud Center for Study of Quality of Life in Health and Aging express their deep sorrow at the loss of their long standing guide and mentor. He was instrumental in the formation of this Center and, in his quiet and gen
 SCHULSKY-Alexander. You left us much too soon, you are a grandfather now, & we know you would have loved your grandson, Grady. Someday, we will share our memories of you with him.       
 Robert W. Maxwell, a United Nations official who headed the organization's post office in the late 1960's, died Nov. 30 at a nursing home in Hanover, N.H. He was 78. He died of throat cancer, said his daughter, Ann E. Maxwell of Pawling, N.Y. Mr. Maxwell was chief of the Uni
 C. Vann Woodward, whose gifts of scholarship, storytelling and social conscience combined to produce some of the most readable and respected histories of the South, died on Friday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 91 years old. Mr. Woodward regarded himself as an old-fashioned sto
 Everett Carll Ladd Jr., a widely published polling expert who was executive director of the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research at the University of Connecticut, died on Dec. 8 at a hospital in Willimantic, Conn. He was 62. He died of heart failure, said Karen A. Grava, a spoke
 Grover Washington Jr., the jazz saxophonist and composer who moved easily between mainstream jazz and pop fusions, died Friday night in New York City after taping four songs for a television show. He was 56 years old, and had lived in Philadelphia. Mr. Washington was taken to St. Lu
 CONNERY-Maurice F. Professor emeritus at UCLA's School of Social Welfare, died at age 81 of cancer at his Pacific Palisades, California, home on Dec. 10, 1999. He was born in 1918 in Beverly, Massachusetts, to William Patrick Connery of Cork, Ireland, & Ellen McEvilly Connery of Galway, Ire
 EBLEN-William R. Age 73, beloved husband of Ruth, died peacefully at his home in Bronxville, NY, December 16, 1999. Loving father of Scott Eblen, Kathy Hughes, stepchildren Caroline and Michael Casey and eight grandchildren. Dear brother of Claudia Fischer and Frank Eblen.       
 ENDLICH-Meyer J. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia (nee Bitton). Loving father of Anabel and Willy Labendz, Pauline and Marvin Goldstein. Proud grandfather of Asher & Debby Labendz, Reuben and Valerie Labendz, Joanna & Richard Seigal, Abigail and David Garb, Philip Goldstein and Elizabeth 
 GORDON-Isidore. We were privileged to have this gentle man of Torah as our member during his last year, and we gratefully acknowledge the endowment in his memory, by his devoted children, Nahum & Barbara Gordon and Daniel & Beatty Gordon, of our taped Hashkafa Lecture Series which shall be 
 JONES-Russell G. 54, Of Darien, CT, passed away on December 16, 1999. Devoted husband of Virginia Lolli Jones and loving father of Melissa, Douglas and Laura. Beloved brother of Margie Tremblay of Holden, MA, Audrey Muir of Brooks, ME, Shirley Gravemberg of Sulphur, LA, Larry Jones of Matth
 KORETZ-Artie. At the age of 79. Beloved husband of Selma. Loving father of the Hon. Eileen Koretz and Joseph Giampaolo, Dr. James and Jodie Koretz. Loving grandfather of Lauren, Casey, Jonathan, Jeremy and Jesse. He will be missed but his compassion, humor and love for life will be remember
 LEVINGSON-Alfred. On December 18, in his ninety-second year. Beloved and devoted husband for 67 years of Ruth Weinstock Levingson; loving and much loved father of Jill and Dr. Charles Nechemias and Abby and Robert J. Levine; adored and adoring grandfather of David and Nancy and Peter Levine
 ORZACH-Jack C., DDS, formerly of NYC and Great Neck, on December 12 in Sarasota, FL, after a long illness. Dr. Orzach was born August 8, 1915 in NY and educated at CCNY and at NYU Dental College. An Army veteran of WW II, for 35 years he practiced dentistry in NY, volunteered at Northern Di
 RIGNEY-Thomas G., M.D. December 16, 1999. Physician, U.S. M.A., Westpoint, NY. Manhattan College 1941; Cornell Medical School 1944. WW II Capt. U.S. Army 10th Mountain Division. Survived by his wife Marian, daughter Alison Rigney, son T. Glenn Rigney, sister Janet Rigney. Services Tuesday, 
 C. Rodney Smith, a retired major general in the Army Corps of Engineers and later the director of Radio Free Europe, died Nov. 28 at his home in Annandale, Va. He was 97. General Smith spent 31 years in the Army Corps of Engineers, retiring as a deputy chief of engineers, the number
 Jackson Barrett Mahon, an American fighter pilot shot down over France in World War II who was one of several Allied airmen thought to have inspired the 1963 movie ''The Great Escape,'' died on Dec. 4 in a hospice in Las Vegas. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, his daughter Do
 Ken W. Clawson, one of President Richard M. Nixon's staunch defenders as director of White House communications during the Watergate era, died on Friday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 63. Mr. Clawson suffered a heart attack, his wife, Carol, said. He had been in poor health si
 BERSON-Harold E., M.D. We deeply mourn the loss of our big brother Harold. He was always there for us and for Burt. We'll be seeing you. Seymour and Doris Berson       
 CONDON-John J., Msgr. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the diocesan director of the Pontifical Society for the Propagation of the Faith on December 17. Reposing in the Simonson Funeral Home, 119-04 Hillside Ave, Richmond Hill, on Monday, December 20, from 2:30-5 and 7-9:30 PM,
 GORDON-Isidore. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to David Gordon on the loss of his father. May the family be conforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 GREENWAY-Gilbert C. 88, of Nassau, Bahamas, and formerly of Washington, DC, died on December 17, 1999, at home in Lyford Cay. He is survived by his son Lauder and his daughters, Cooby Greenway and Sara O'Dea, and eight grandchildren. His eldest son, Gilbert C., Jr. died in 1981, and his wif
 KORETZ-Arthur. Temple Shaaray Tefila records his tragic death with profound sorrow. We extend heartfelt sympathy to Selma, Eileen and James; their loved ones; his grandchildren; his beloved family and friends. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Dr. Ellen Saxl, President       
 LEVINGSON-Alfred. On December 18, in his ninety-second year. Beloved and devoted husband for 67 years of Ruth Weinstock Levingson; loving and much loved father of Jill and Dr. Charles Nechemias and Abby and Robert J. Levine; adored and adoring grandfather of David and Nancy and Peter Levine
 MOLE-Harvey E. Of Summit, NJ, on December 17, 1999. Husband of the late Elaine Brown Mole and father of Elaine M. Taggart, Harvey E. Mole III and Matthew C. Mole. Also survived by eight grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. A service will be held on Tuesday, December 21, at 11 AM, at 
 PEARSALL-Paul. On December 18, 1999, in his 85th year. A lifelong member of the Baha'i Faith and recognized authority on President Woodrow Wilson. We deeply mourn the passing of this exceptional man of rare decency, integrity and intelligence. He could not be loved more by his survivors: hi
 SERAFINI-Joseph J., 67, on December 17, 1999, in Albany, NY. Survived by his wife, Maria Donato Serafini of Albany, two daughters, Joann Serafini of San Francisco and Loredana Serafini of Albany. Also survived by two sisters a father-in-law, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, several aunts, u
 TREFF-Saul. Age 78. Of Dix Hills, NY, passed away on Friday, December 17. Beloved husband of Irma (Katz), devoted and loving father of Andrew, Gary and Shirley, and Bruce and Maria, loving grandfather of Sarah, Joshua and Melanie, and brother of Lawrence and Selma. A graduate of New York Un
 Edward Dorn, an author known for the mock-epic poem ''Gunslinger'' and other writings about the American West, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Denver. He was 70. He had pancreatic cancer, said Tom Clark, a poet and poetry critic. Mr. Dorn defined himself as ''a poet of the We
 Hank Snow, one of the most popular and prolific country stars of the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Madison, Tenn. He was 85. In nearly a half century Mr. Snow released some 140 albums with more than 85 songs reaching the country charts. He was a masterly songwriter with a cl
 Jurgen Moser, one of the world's leading mathematicians who helped develop an influential theory for analyzing the orbits of planets, asteroids and other celestial bodies, died of prostate cancer on Friday in a hospital in Schwerzenbach, Switzerland. He was 71. Like many other talen
 Kazuo Sakamaki, who became the first Japanese prisoner of war captured by American forces in World War II when his midget submarine ran aground during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died on Nov. 29. He was 81. His death, in Japan, was reported yesterday by a Japanese veterans'
 Lyle Leverich, who wrote ''Tom: The Unknown Tennessee Williams,'' the prize-winning authorized biography of the playwright, died on Friday at Kaiser Hospital in San Rafael, Calif. He was 79 and lived in San Rafael. The cause was a heart seizure after complications from diabetes, sai
 BERGER-Adolph R., M.D. The faculty and staff of New York University School of Medicine mourn the passing of Adolph R. Berger, M.D., age 89, a longtime faculty member and alumnus. Dr. Berger served as the Director of Student Health Services at both the medical and dental schools from 1942 to
 BERNSTEIN-Martin. On December 19 in New York City, age 95. Beloved husband of Virginia Lubkin, M.D. and loving father of the late Ellen Schanzer of Elizabeth, N.J., James of Washington, DC, Roger of New York City, and John of Baltimore, Md; affectionate grandfather of Bruce, Bella, Juliet a
 BROWDY-Charles M. December 19, 1999. Loving husband, father, grandfather and Uncle Charley to thousands of campers, counselors & staff at Camp Mar-Lin, Windsor, CT. He will always be remembered with love for fun, friends and healthy living. Camp Mar-Lin Alumni       
 GRANT-George H. Died peacefully at home in Naples, Florida on December 19, 1999, just shy of his 80th birthday. Beloved husband of Maureen. Loving father of Dr. Ron and his wife Lesley & Danny and his wife Bobbie. Devoted brother of Lilly Intrator. Cherished uncle of Evelyn and Peggy. Adore
 GREENWAY-Gilbert C., 88, of Nassau, Bahamas, and formerly of Washington, D.C., died on December 17, 1999, at home in Lyford Cay. He is survived by his son Lauder and his daughters, Cooby Greenway and Sara O'Dea, and eight grandchildren. His eldest son, Gilbert C. Jr. died in 1981, and his w
 KUPFERMAN-Jakob. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Dr. Sheldon Kupferman on the loss of his father. May the family be conforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 LESLIE-Stephen H., M.D. We mourn the loss of Dr. Stephen Leslie, an alumnus of our School of Medicine and Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine. He was a dedicated, loyal alumnus and a longtime highly devoted, caring attending physician at Bellevue who pioneered our Intermediate Care Uni
 TAPLEY-Donald F., M.D. The Irving Center for Clinical Research of the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, together with Herbert and Florence Irving, wish to express their great sorrow at the loss of their leader. Dr. Tapley's vision, together with the gracious philanthropy of the Irvings,
 TUCHMAN-Clara. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Cal Tuchman and family on the loss of his beloved mother. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 Cardinal Paolo Dezza, a traditional Jesuit scholar who was assigned by Pope John Paul II to rein in the religious order in the early 1980's, died in Rome on Friday. He was 98. The Jesuits, formally the Society of Jesus, an order founded in the 16th century, grew politically divided 
 Joe Higgs, the mentor to a generation of socially conscious reggae singers, died on Saturday at Kaiser Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 59 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said his biographer, Roger Steffens. Mr. Higgs sang, wrote songs and taught singing and s
 Leo P. Carlin, Democratic mayor of Newark from 1953 to 1962 who was the city's first mayor in modern times to be chosen by its electorate, died on Friday. He was 91. He died at his home in Avon-by-the-Sea, N.J., where he had lived year-round since the late 1960's. Mr. Carlin
 BAIDA-Peter. December 10, 1999. Fondly remembered by the Hemophilia Association of New York where he served as a Trustee and Vice President for more than a decade. His efforts on behalf of the bleeding disorders community were the finest example of volunteerism. Edward G. Rogoff, President 
 BERNSTEIN-Martin. On December 19 in New York City, age 95. Beloved husband of Virginia Lubkin, M.D. and loving father of the late Ellen Schanzer of Elizabeth, N.J., James of Washington, DC, Roger of New York City, and John of Baltimore, Md; affectionate grandfather of Bruce, Bella, Juliet a
 BEZBORODKO-David. Died on December 21 at age 98. Beloved father, grandfather, great-grandfather, brother. His integrity, wisdom and warmth inspired us all. Funeral 12 Noon, at Young Israel of 91st Street (at Broadway). The Mirrotek International Family       
 BOONSHOFT-Jerome. On December 21, 1999; beloved husband of the late Muriel, father of Sharon and Stephen, grandfather of Michael, Mark and Jonathan; may he rest in peace.       
 BRAUER-Paul H., M.D. On December 19, 1999, at the age of 87, from complications following heart surgery. He leaves his wife Arlette, his son Alan, his daughter Janet Weinberger, his grandchildren Eric and Mark Weinberger, his daughter-in-law Donna, and his son-in-law Steven Weinberger. He w
 CARR-John C. Age 70. Educator and arts advocate died Sunday, December 19, of a heart attack. Dr. Carr was Professor Emeritus at the University of Maryland, where he had been a Professor in the Department of Education. From 1965 until 1994, he was Adjunct Professor in the Drama Department at
 CESS-Ruth, 78, died December 20, 1999, after a long illness. Beloved wife of Sol. Funeral will be held today at 11:30 at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. CESS-Ruth. Park East Synagogue extends deepest sympathy to our devoted member Soly G. Cess on the death of his b
 DIAMOND-Lawrence, DMD. The attending, support, and resident staffs of dental medicine at NYHQ and WHMC are profoundly saddened by the untimely passing of Dr. Lawrence Diamond. He was a great friend, an outstanding professional, a superb teacher, and just a good guy. We express our sympathy 
 EBLEN-William R. The Trustees of the Rene Dubos Center for Human Environments mourn the passing of its founder and President, December 16 extending their deepest sympathies to his wife Ruth and family. Dr. Eblen's collaboration with Rene Dubos has influenced environmental decisionmaking wor
 EISENSTARK-Raymond Gerald, 53, on December 20, 1999, of acute leukemia. Beloved husband of Sarita Nemerow Eisenstark, brother of Keith and Sandra, stepfather of Raphael, Jordan, Libby and Lisa Copeland. Innovator in the computer software field since 1966, he worked on virtually every type o
 FORTE-Mario. Our hearts go out to our dear friend, Marco, on the loss of his father. Jon Brudner and Kari Waldman       
 FORTE-Mario J. (Gasper). On December 20, 1999. Women's apparel fashion designer. Beloved husband of the late Francesca Hall Trantum, son of the late Maria Vincinzina Forte. Loving father of Gian-Marco Forte and dear son of Edward A. Forte. Mario was a graduate of The Parsons School of Desig
 GOODMAN-Pearl Brandeis. On December 20, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Abe. Loving mother of George and his wife Mona, Mary Fenton and her hsuband Jerry, and Andrew and his wife Ellen. Cherished grandmother of Holly Stein, Joshua & Adam Goodman. Services Thursday, 12 Noon, at ''The Riversid
 GREENWAY-Gilbert C., 88, of Nassau, Bahamas, and formerly of Washington, D.C., died on December 17, 1999, at home in Lyford Cay. He is survived by his son Lauder and his daughters, Cooby Greenway and Sara O'Dea, and eight grandchildren. His eldest son, Gilbert C. Jr. died in 1981, and his w
 HALBFINGER - Abraham. The Board, staff and members of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA), note with deep sorrow the passing of the father of our beloved and esteemed Trustee, Marty Halbfinger. Our hearts go out to Marty and Lynn, their daughters and his mother Sara in t
 HOEY-Peter J. On December 21, 1999. Of Northvale, NJ. Born on July 29, 1925 in Dublin, Ireland, he served in the U.S. Army and was decorated for his honorable service during the Korean War. Mr. Hoey was presented the Distinguished Service Award by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerat
 JACOBSON-Samuel K. Long Island homebuilder, died on December 17 at the age of 80 at his home in Deerfield Beach, Florida. He is survived by his loving wife of 36 years, Sylvia; his four children Martin Klepper, Carin Doben, Richard Klepper, and Ellen Delgado; his sister Muriel Wolff; and 13
 KRAMER-Irwin Hamilton. On December 20, 1999. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Reposing Wednesday 2-4 and 7-9 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81st Street), N.Y.C. Service Thursday, December 23, 10 A.M., at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. KRAM
 LEVINGSON-Alfred. The Board of Directors of 180 Tenants Corporation wishes to extend our deepest sympathies to our dear neighbor, Ruth, and her family on the passing of Alfred Levingson. Alfred brought to his many years of service on our Board, both as a member and as long-time President, t
 MILLER-Samuel. In his 91st year. A strong, determined man who gave it his all until the very end. Married to his beloved Victoria for 59 years. Very sincere condolences to her and the entire family, especially his wonderful daughter Myrna Penzel. We all hope for happier days to come. Staff 
 PEVERLEY-Ralph W. Of Litchfield, CT, formerly of Greenwich, died Tuesday at Charlotte Hungerford Hospital in Torrington, CT. Mr. Peverley was born in New York, NY, son of the late Ralph S. and Julia (Barnhill) Peverley. He was predeceased by his wife, E. Mary Peverley, and is survived by hi
 ROSS-Robert S., 44, of New York City. Award winning documentary filmmaker. Passed away Monday, December 20, 1999, in New York. Robert was the beloved son of Enid Ross and the late Walter Ross of West Hartford, CT; loving brother of Nancy Ross of NYC and Holly and Tom Gionfriddo of West Hart
 SIMON-John L., M.D., J.D. 86, born in Philadelphia January 18, 1913. Attended Jefferson Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University and served as a physician in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade during the Spanish Civil War. Practiced neurology and psychiatry in New York and Puerto Rico. Obtai
 TIERNAN-Thomas Francis, 78, late of New York, NY & Hawley, PA died on December 19, 1999. Mr. Tiernan was a retired senior vice president for Blue Cross/Blue Shield of NY, NY. He was married to Rosemary (Stevens) Tiernan. Survived by one son, Steven. Mass of the Resurrection at the Church of
 WASHINGTON-Grover Jr. On December 17, 1999 of Philadelphia. Beloved husband of Christine nee Bitner, loving father of Grover III, Shana, stepson Loran P. Massey, and foster son Sean Tucker. Sadly missed by mother Lillian Washington and brother Darryl. Those wishing to pay their respects are
 WITKOWSKI-Dr. Francis Xavier. Noted researcher and staff cardiologist at the University of Alberta Hospital. Passed away on December 17, 1999 at the age of 52 years. He is survived by his wife, Pat, three daughters Chloe, Elizabeth and Olivia, his loving mother Helen J. Witkowski of Atlanta
 LIMPERT-John H. 12/22/84. In loving memory from his family.       
 Robert Bresson, the acclaimed French movie director whose best-known films, among them ''Diary of a Country Priest'' and ''Pickpocket,'' reflected a strongly aesthetic and spiritual approach to cinema, died on Saturday at his home in Droue-sur-Drouette southwest of Paris. He was 98. He made
 Sidney Alexander, the author of 15 books on Renaissance history and art, as well as novels, poetry, plays and criticism, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Richmond, Va. He was 87. Among his major works were the biography ''Marc Chagall'' (1978)  and his three-volume historical novel co
 Alton A. Lindsey, a pioneer ecologist who was believed to be the last living scientist from the Antarctica expeditions of Adm. Richard E. Byrd, died on Sunday at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 92. Dr. Lindsey lived his life at the environmental ramparts. He studied penguins and sea
 Antonio Claudio Martinez, an immigration lawyer based in Manhattan who was a longtime presence in Dominican-American and other immigrant communities, died last Thursday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 73 and lived in Rego Park, Queens. The cause was complications f
 Dr. Harold Eugene Berson, a prominent neuropsychiatrist associated with Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn for more than 40 years, died on Dec. 14 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and had homes in Stuart, Fla., and Manhattan. The cause was complications of lymphoma,
 ALLEN-Abraham. Born May 28, 1909, Brooklyn, NY, died peacefully at home in Manh., December 21. Abe was a wonderful artist and tireless supporter of just causes. He was a founder and first director of public information for Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Abe was an inexhaustible source
 BEZBORODKO-David. We mourn the passing of our beloved Silver Founder, David Bezborodko. Longtime generous supporters of the Medical Center, David and his late wife, Sarah, personified the values of tzedakah and chesed. May the warm memories of this special individual bring solace to his chi
 BRAUER-Paul H.. M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health mourn the passing of our friend and esteemed colleague, Paul H. Brauer, MD, lecturer in the Department of Psychiatry, who was associated with Mount S
 CARR-John C.. Age 70. Educator and arts advocate died Sunday, December 19, of a heart attack. Dr. Carr was Professor Emeritus at the University of Maryland, where he had been a Professor in the Department of Education. From 1965 until 1994, he was Adjunct Professor in the Drama Department a
 FLORENCE-Lee. On December 21, 1999 at age 91. Adored husband of Estelle. Loving father of the late Michael. Most beloved grandfather of David, Diana and Scott. Cherished brother-in-law of Miriam. Dear uncle of Jonathan and Esther, Mattye and Robert, Elaine, Phyllis and Harold, and all their
 GOMBERG-Lee. The Have A Heart Foundation sadly acknowledges the passing of our past President and esteemed board member and extends our condolences to his family. His compassion and guidance resulted in providing dignified assistance to those in need.       
 KRAL-William G.., 53, of Eagle Lake in the town of Ticonderoga, NY, died unexpectedly December 20, 1999. Mr. Kral was born in the Bronx, New York on October 16, 1946. He was a veteran, had his J.D. doctorate in law, and was a founding partner in the New York law firm of Kral, Clerkin, Redmo
 LENNARD-Jerome., December 21, 1999. Beloved husband of Emily, adoring grandfather, and father of Amy Goehner and Jeffrey. Brother of Blossom and the late Larry, son of the late Minnie and Sam. Paratrooper, journalist, jokester, tinman, gaming & travel executive. He will be remembered by all
 REINITZ-Rudolph. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed Member. We extend deepest sympathy to his children, Naomi, Joshua, Sima, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi George Sommerfeld, President Charles Rosenzweig, C
 SHANLEY-John. Died peacefully on December 14. Born June 17, 1914 in New York, he was the son of the late John Shanley and the late Mary Burke Shanley. A 1937 graduate of St. John's, he was the captain of the 1936/37 St. John's basketball team. During World War II he served in the Army Count
 SIMON-John L., M.D.., J.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his wife Myrtle Simon and family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Pad
 Dr. Edward Hartman Reisner Jr., a cancer specialist known for his work with vitamin B12, died Dec. 16 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. A longtime resident of Tenafly, N.J., he was 84 and lived in a retirement community in Allendale, N.J. The cause was heart failure, his family 
 Henry W. Large, who briefly served as president of the Wabash Railroad and was a longtime executive with the Pennsylvania Railroad, died Dec. 9 at his home in Blue Bell, Pa. He was 94. Mr. Large was president of the Wabash Railroad, which was based in St. Louis, in 1964 and 1965.   
 John Elliott Lyday, the surgeon who inspired the character Trapper John in ''M*A*S*H,'' died of cancer Monday at a hospital in Greensboro, N.C., where he lived. He was 78. The 1968 novel led to Robert Altman's hit 1970 movie, which set the standard for black comedies in its time. It
 ALLEN-Abraham. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our first director of public information and a member of our Society of Founders. We will always be grateful to Abe for the crucial role he played in the development of our institution. To his son
 ARONIN-Stanley Michael. A long time resident of Pelham, died Thursday, December 23, 1999 at Sound Shore Medical Center. Born Feb. 16, 1918, he was the beloved husband of Anne, nee Metzger, beloved father of Michael, Patricia Sherrill, Nancy Fanelli, and Kevin. He also leaves behind 11 grand
 BELVISO-Robert Hugh. On December 23, 1999 at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. Beloved husband of Freida (nee Sawyer), loving father of Melanie. Funeral Service private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Yale Alumni Fund, POB 803, New Haven, CT 06503-0803, Class of 1955.       
 BERGER-Adolph R.., MD. Died on December 17, 1999 at age 89. The devoted husband of his beloved late wife, Margaret Lielman Berger. Dr. Berger was a graduate of NYU School of Medicine and an Attending Physician and Professor of Clinical Medicine at Bellevue and Tisch Hospitals for more than 
 CRAWFORD-Henry T. (Hank). On December 22, 1999. He leaves behind his beloved wife and friend Blanche Christian Crawford, his sons Tyrone, Jeffrey, Gregory and Gary, step-son Dwayne, stepdaughter Deborah, father Henry, mother Eunice, four brothers Raymond, Vernon, Leroy and Douglas, four sis
 EDDY-John Post Boardman. In Boca Grande, Florida, on Tuesday, December 14th, 1999. Beloved husband of Kathryn King Eddy. Loving father of Elizabeth A. S. Eddy. Devoted son of Randolph Post Eddy and Jeane S. Eddy. In addition, he is survived by his brothers Paul C. Eddy & Randolph P. Eddy, J
 FLEMING-Robert B.., Sr. The Pace University community mourns the passing of Robert B. Fleming Sr., founding dean of its School of Law, who passed away on December 16. Fleming served as dean from 1976 to 1982. He then joined the Pace Law School faculty prior to returning to Buffalo in 1987, 
 GOSS-Donald. Died December 21, 1999. Beloved husband of Anita, loving father of Sue, Gus and Nina Michelson. He was an accountant and retired Petty Officer 2nd Class, U.S. Coast Guard. He will be deeply missed.       
 INWALD-Chester. Beloved husband of the late Doris. Loving father of Sarah Herzl Kadesh, Eliza and David Rosen and Jacob & Lynne Inwald. Adored grandfather of Ben, Adam, Mital and Liad Kadesh, Jesse, Daniel, Ezra and Doris Emily Rosen, Jethro and Charles Inwald. Dear brother of Martin, Samso
 ISRAEL-Ben. Our deepest sympathy to our partner Ira, his mother Ruth and the whole Israel family on the passing of his father Benny, a wonderful, kind & affectionate man who always inspired us with his warmth, wisdom & life experiences. It was a pleasure to have known him. All our love. Pau
 JAFFIN-George M.. Adored and beloved husband of Janet, loving father of Doris Greenberg, Lois Levine and David Jaffin. Caring father-in-law of Lee Greenberg and Rosemary Jaffin. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan Greenberg, Walter Greenberg, Matthew Greenberg, Daniella Cava, Julie Levine, an
 LAITMAN-Leon., Ph.D., 86, died December 21, 1999. Born in Paris, France. After serving in the U.S. Armed Forces W.W. II (OSS), he completed his doctorate in economics development and geography at the University of Paris. He published ''Tunisia Today: Crisis in North Africa''. His career ran
 MINTZ-Donald Edward. On December 22, 1999. Loving father of Peter, Hayley and daughter-in-law Etta, dear brother of Robert and sister-in-law Helene, adoring grandfather of Alexander. He was a professor of psychology and former Chairman of the Deparment of Psychology at City College, City Un
 REINITZ-Rudolph C.. Of Greenwich, CT. Died December 22, 1999. He was 77. Born September 12, 1922 in Czechoslavakia to Joseph and Serena Greenberg Reinitz. He married the late Ahuva Krasiko in 1950. Rudolph was a Corporate Executive for the Mobile Corp. He is survived by his loving partner E
 TURKEN-Walter. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved son-in-law. It was our good fortune to have him as part of our family. You were deeply loved by your wife and children. In our hearts and memories, you will live on. Norma and Jack Parker TURKEN-Walter. We deeply regret the p
 Gen. Joao Baptista de Figueiredo, who restored democratic government to Brazil in the face of economic turmoil and sabotage attempts by hard-line officers and political right-wingers, died yesterday at his house in Rio de Janeiro. He was 81. He had been repeatedly hospitalized in re
 Maurice Couve de Murville, France's longest-serving foreign minister and the cool embodiment of Gaullist detachment toward the United States and the Atlantic alliance, died yesterday. He was 92. His family and the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, announcing the death, did 
 ASZLING-Richard A. Richard Anderson Aszling, a retired corporate communications executive, died of pneumonia on Wednesday in Middletown, Connecticut. He was 85. Mr. Aszling retired in 1979 as vice president/corporate relations for General Foods Corp. He graduated from Oberlin College in 193
 BERGER-Adolph R., MD. Died on December 17, 1999 at age 89. The devoted husband of his beloved late wife, Margaret Liebman Berger. Dr. Berger was a graduate of NYU School of Medicine and an Attending Physician and Professor of Clinical Medicine at Bellevue and Tisch Hospitals for more than 5
 CRAWFORD-Henry T. (Hank). On December 22, 1999. He leaves behind his beloved wife and friend Blanche Christian Crawford, his sons Tyrone, Jeffrey, Gregory and Gary, step-son Dwayne, stepdaughter Deborah, father Henry, mother Eunice, four brothers Raymond, Vernon, Leroy and Douglas, four sis
 CROHN-Michael Herbert, on Friday, December 24th, 1999 at home. Beloved son of Janet and George. Loving companion to Marian O'Neill. Dear brother to Jeffrey and Kathleen. Special uncle to Nolan and Leah. Michael was a truly remarkable person who touched the lives of many. He fought a courage
 DIAMOND-Lawrence, DMD. The employees and staff of the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens are saddened by the loss of Lawrence Diamond, DMD. Dr. Diamond performed his residency at New York Hospital Queens and was an outstanding attending dentist in the Department of Dental Medicine. 
 FLORENCE-Lee. On December 21, 1999 at age 91. Adored husband of Estelle. Loving father of the late Michael. Most beloved grandfather of David, Diana and Scott. Cherished brother-in-law of Miriam. Dear uncle of Jonathan and Esther, Mattye and Robert, Elaine, Phyllis and Harold, and all their
 HENRY-Christopher. My dear, quirky brother-in-law, the circle is closed, the Henry family reunited. Chris, tell Bill how much I miss him. Gail Manyan Henry       
 JAFFIN-George M. Adored and beloved husband of Janet, loving father of Doris Greenberg, Lois Levine and David Jaffin. Caring father-in-law of Lee Greenberg and Rosemarie Jaffin. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan Greenberg, Walter Greenberg, Matthew Greenberg, Daniella Cava, Julie Levine, Ca
 KELLNER-Warren, age 84, of NYC, on Thursday, December 23, 1999 in Norwalk, CT. A member of Temple Emanu-El of the City of New York, the former President and owner of the Kitty Kelly Shoe Corporation, and in later years was Vice-President and General Manager of Michele Perkins and Associates
 YAGODA-Grace. It is with profound sorrow that we extend our heaftfelt sympathy and condolences to Mr. David Yagoda, who was a very dear friend of Chabad Vocational Schools in Israel, and his daughters Barbara and Janet on the passing of their beloved wife and mother O.B.M. May you all be co
 Vladimir Kondrashin, the coach who masterminded the Soviet Union's controversial last-second upset of the United States men's basketball team for the gold medal at the 1972 Munich Olympics, died Thursday of cancer at a hospital in St. Petersburg, Russia. He was 70. The Soviet Union'
 Bill Bowerman, a renowned track coach at the University of Oregon who spawned a revolution in athletic footwear and helped build a worldwide marketing powerhouse as the co-founder of Nike in the mid-1960's, died at his home in Fossil, Ore. He was 88. Bowerman died in his sleep late 
 George M. Jaffin, a retired Manhattan lawyer and art patron who started one of the nation's first large-scale law school loan forgiveness programs for public-interest lawyers, died Thursday at a White Plains hospital. He was 94. Mr. Jaffin, a native New Yorker who lived in Scarsdale
 Dr. Hans Waine, who earned a doctorate in history in Germany and worked as a journalist in Berlin before immigrating to the United States and becoming a prominent rheumatologist, died Dec. 5 at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 92. In his medical career he held a number of po
 John W. R. Taylor, the longtime editor of ''Jane's All the World's Aircraft,'' the authoritative guide to aviation, died on Dec. 12 in a hospital in Surbiton, a suburb of London, where he lived. He was 77. The cause of death was not disclosed , but Mr. Taylor was hospitalized with a
 Norman E. Rothstein, a producer and general manager for more than 40 years on and Off Broadway and in the national and international theater, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Julie Hughes, a New York casting direct
 AGRIN-Irving N., M.D. Died on December 24 at age 82. In family practice for over 50 years, he will be dearly missed by three generations of patients. He is survived by his wife Alice, his sons Richard and Glen, his daughters in-law Alice and Lynn, and his grandchildren Rachel, Deborah, and 
 BELVISO-Robert Hugh. On December 23, 1999 at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. Beloved husband of Freida (nee Sawyer), loving father of Melanie. Funeral Service private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Yale Alumni Fund, POB 803, New Haven, CT 06503-0803, Class of 1955.       
 BERGER-Adolph R., MD. Died on December 17, 1999 at age 89. The devoted husband of his beloved late wife, Margaret Liebman Berger. Dr. Berger was a graduate of NYU School of Medicine and an Attending Physician and Professor of Clinical Medicine at Bellevue and Tisch Hospitals for more than 5
 BERNSTEIN-Professor Martin. Beloved, unforgettable teacher, an inspiration to his students. Love and sympathy to Dr. Lubkin and family. Shirley Marcus Libowitz       
 COHEN-Albert B. Died December 24th, 1999, at age 76. Beloved husband of Bernice. Devoted father of Jeffrey and Shelley, Steven and Laura, Marla and Jim, and Robert. Proud grandfather of Rachel, Jordana, Brad, Jennifer, Emily, Daniel, Joseph, Anna and Michael. Board Member of North Shore Uni
 CRAWFORD-Henry T. (Hank). On December 22, 1999. He leaves behind his beloved wife and friend Blanche Christian Crawford, his sons Tyrone, Jeffrey, Gregory and Gary, step-son Dwayne, stepdaughter Deborah, father Henry, mother Eunice, four brothers Raymond, Vernon, Leroy and Douglas, four sis
 CROHN-Michael Herbert, on Friday, December 24th, 1999 at home. Beloved son of Janet and George. Loving companion to Marian O'Neill. Dear brother to Jeffrey and Kathleen. Special uncle to Nolan and Leah. Michael was a truly remarkable person who touched the lives of many. He fought a courage
 EDDY-John Post Boardman. In Boca Grande, Florida, on Tuesday, December 14th, 1999. Beloved husband of Kathryn King Eddy. Loving father of Elizabeth A. S. Eddy. Devoted son of Randolph Post Eddy and Jeane S. Eddy. In addition, he is survived by his brothers Paul C. Eddy & Randolph P. Eddy, J
 FLORENCE-Lee. On December 21, 1999 at age 91. Adored husband of Estelle. Loving father of the late Michael. Most beloved grandfather of David, Diana and Scott. Cherished brother-in-law of Miriam. Dear uncle of Jonathan and Esther, Mattye and Robert, Elaine, Phyllis and Harold, and all their
 GOODFLIESH-Charles. Died Saturday, December 4. Retired from Town and Country Shoes, Inc. Served in World War II with honor. Survived by wife Anne, children Robert, Marsha, Philip, Larry and Elise, their spouses and grandchildren Sandra, Greg, Ronald, Michael, Jacob, Sharon, Deborah and grea
 HAYNES-John M., Ph.D., of Northport, NY, on December 22, 1999, of leukemia. Survived by Gretchen, his daughters, Karen and Julia, and grandchildren, Charlotte and Oliver. John was the founding president of the Academy of Family Mediators and an international trainer of mediators and court p
 ISRAEL-Benjamin. On December 22, 1999 at age 95. Adored husband of Ruth for 65 years, loving and devoted father of Felicia, Ira and Paul, father-in-law of Arthur, Mora and Beverly, precious grandfather of Steven, Michael and Shoshanna, Brian, Bonnie, P.J., Michael, Joel and Sarah. Cherished
 JAFFIN-George M. Adored and beloved husband of Janet, loving father of Doris Greenberg, Lois Levine and David Jaffin. Caring father-in-law of Lee Greenberg and Rosemarie Jaffin. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan Greenberg, Walter Greenberg, Matthew Greenberg, Daniella Cava, Julie Levine, Ca
 MITTELMAN-Phillip S., Ph.D. Beloved husband of Myra. Beloved father to David Mittelman and Vicki Popielinski. Father-in-law to Michele Mittelman & grandfather to Lea, Danny, Andy, Jamie and Melissa. Died quietly Dec. 23, 1999 in his home in Brentwood, CA. May his strength, his kindness and 
 TURKEN-Walter, age 67 of Naples, Florida and Bedford, New York died Wednesday, December 22, 1999 in his Naples home. Born in Jersey City, NJ, he graduated from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania and later served in the U.S. Air Force. He was a Certified Public 
 TYSON-John Barnes. Died after a long illness on December 19, 1999 in Richmond, Virginia. He was 64. He is survived by his brother, Michael M. Tyson of Santa Fe, NM, a sister, Posy Beer of Farmington, CT, a half-brother, Anthony Tyson of Easthampton, NY, and a halfsister, Holly Tyson of Key 
 VADER-Norman. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with deep sorrow the passing of Norman Vader, Treasurer of the Associate Board of Directors. An active member since 1972, Mr. Vader served on numerous committees to raise funds for the Hospital. Our sincere condolenc
 YAGODA-Grace. It is with profound sorrow that we extend our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to David, Barbara and Janet on the passing of their beloved wife and mother. Newmark has lost a member of its family. Our hearts ache for you. May you all be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion
 Roger Frison-Roche, a French mountaineer, explorer and popular writer who carried out the first live radio broadcast from the summit of Mont Blanc, died on Dec. 17 in Chamonix in the French Alps. He was 93. Mr. Frison-Roche's books were widely translated and sold in the millions. Hi
 Tony Bryant, who was a Black Panther, an airplane hijacker, a prison inmate in Communist Cuba for 11 1/2 years and later an anti-Castro militant based in Florida, died on Thursday. He was 60. The cause was leukemia, The Associated Press reported. Where he died was not immediately di
 Bill Bowerman, a renowned track coach at the University of Oregon who spawned a revolution in athletic footwear and America's jogging boom while helping build a worldwide marketing powerhouse as the co-founder of Nike, died Friday at a retirement home in Fossil, Ore. He was 88. From
 Curtis Mayfield, one of the most important soul singers and songwriters of the 1960's and 70's, who brought themes of civil rights to the pop charts, died yesterday at the North Fulton Regional Hospital in Roswell, Ga. He was 57. The cause was not available on Sunday. In 1990 Mr. Ma
 DeWitt Samuel Copp, a writer whose work often focused on the cold war, died on Nov. 29 in Burlington, Vt., where he lived. He was 80 and also had a home in Manchester, Vt. Mr. Copp wrote more than 30 books, fiction and nonfiction, and many articles about the cold war and espionage, 
 Dr. Hans Waine, who received a doctorate in history in Germany and worked as a journalist in Berlin before moving to the United States and becoming a prominent rheumatologist, died Dec. 5 at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 92. In his medical career, he worked for foundation
 Dr. Lewis Hastings Sarett, an organic chemist who received the National Medal of Science for his work with cortisone and other substances as the senior vice president for science and technology of Merck & Company, died on Nov. 29 at his home in Viola, Idaho. He was 81 and lived in Princeton
 Leo Smit, a composer, pianist and teacher, died on Dec. 12 in Encinitas, Calif. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Nils Vigeland, a friend. During a long and varied career that began when he was 15, Mr. Smit worked with Stravinsky, was closely associated with Copla
 Mark Cohen, a major collector of comics and an agent representing some of the world's leading cartoonists in the sale of their original art, died at his home in Santa Rosa on Dec. 19. He was 57. The cause was cancer, his family said. After leaving the real estate business se
 COHEN-Albert B. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the loss of Albert B. Cohen, a generous supporter of our organization and a true friend of the Jewish community. He was responsible, with his wife Bernice who survives him, for numerous act
 CRABB-Tyrone H. Honorable Mayor Elect of Newburgh, NY. Died Wednesday, December 22 in Newburgh. Born March 8, 1940, in New York City to the late Hudson Fulton Crabb and Ida McCaskill. Husband of Mary Smith. 1957 graduate of Newburgh Free Academy and attended Altantic Union College, Lancaste
 GORDON-Mel. 75, passed December 25, 1999. Beloved husband to Herta, loving father to Mort and Jon, and uncle to Stuart and Pam. Proud grandfather to Max, Nikki, Ellie and Zoe. Adored by his daughters-in-law, Donna, Joan and Jess. He touched all who knew him. His boundless curiosity and deep
 HAMERSLEY-James Hooker. On December 24, 1999, of Duxbury, MA, formerly of Tuxedo Park and Southampton, NY. Survived by his wife, Christine; his mother, Hilles Morris Timpson; brothers, Louis Gordon, Jr. and Stuyvesant Morris; sister, Hilles Martin. Visiting hours Tuesday, December 28, at th
 LEVY-David Simon. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 LIBBY-John W. Of Bedford, NY, formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, died December 24, 1999. Predeceased by his first wife Cecile (nee Gerold). Loving husband of Joanne M. LaBua Libby. Devoted father of Gerold W. Libby and father-in-law of Carol S. Libby. Also devoted father of Jeanne W. Libby
 Walt Levinsky, a jazz clarinetist, composer and arranger, died here on Dec. 14, days after being released from a hospital in New York City. He was 70 and lived in River Edge, N.J., and Sarasota. He was suffering from brain cancer and had been in a coma for more than two months, his 
 Anthony Imperiale, a race-baiting civic leader and politician from Newark who became a national symbol of the backlash against urban unrest by wielding a baseball bat to defend his white neighborhood during the 1967 riots, died Sunday at Saint Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston of compli
 Harold L. Fisher, a lawyer who played a prominent role in Democratic politics in New York for several decades and also served as a chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, died Sunday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Fisher, sometimes called ''Mr. Br
 Joseph Leo McGahn, a New Jersey obstetrician who, as a Democratic state senator, paved the way for Atlantic City's gambling industry in the 1970's, died Friday at Meadowview Nursing Home in Northfield, N.J. A longtime resident of Absecon, N.J., he was 82. Dr. McGahn represented Atla
 Leonard H. Goldenson, the self-contained man who bought the American Broadcasting Company in 1953 and made it an incubator of television innovations while he pushed it from also-ran status to parity with its more senior rivals, died at his home in Sarasota, Fla., yesterday. He was 94.      
 ALDERMAN-Norman E., D.D.S. Of Great Neck, N.Y. and Lake Worth, FL. on December 25, 1999. Beloved husband of Elinor. Devoted father of Joan Hayman and Mark Alderman. Father-in-law of Alan Hayman. Cherished grandfather of Stephanie and Jennifer Hayman. Loving brother of Bernard Alderman. His 
 BECKLEY-James E. The Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association (''PIABA'') is sad to announce the death of our current President, James E. Beckley. Jim Beckley, a distinguished attorney from Chicago, worked tirelessly for the protection of individual investors, and he will be missed by o
 BROWN-Paul R. of Stuart, Florida, died on December 26, 1999. A retired dentist, Dr. Brown was a long time resident of Scarsdale, New York before retiring in 1987. He is survived by his beloved wife of 56 years, Anne; four children and two grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in Ho
 CHENEY-David Howell. Age 95. Of Litchfield, CT., formerly of Manchester, CT. Husband of Eleanor (nee Gray) Cheney. Died Monday, December 27, 1999, at his home. Mr. Cheney was born May 20, 1904 in Manchester, son of the late Howell and Anne (nee Bunce) Cheney. He was a 1927 graduate of Yale 
 COHEN-Albert. We note with sorrow the passing of a distinguished Trustee and dear friend to many. Albert Cohen was a true humanitarian, seeking to provide comfort and compassion to those in need, while asking nothing in return. His commitment to the extended community was to insure that the
 de KRUYF-Johannes. A legendary expert on Netherlands philately, passed away at his home in Bergenfield, NJ on Wednesday, October 6, 1999 at the age of 92. Johannes, ''Jo'' to his friends, left Holland for Canada in 1928 and came to New York the following year. There he worked 40 years for t
 EBSTEIN-Yehuda. Died on Dec. 27, 1999 after a long, courageous battle with heart disease, renal failure and bladder cancer, at age 75. Dearly loved his wife, Shoshonna; his daughters, Gila Lewis & Aviva Kroninger; sons-in-law, Jim Lewis and Stephen Kroninger; and his grandchildren, Vanessa,
 FISHER-Harold L. Lawyer, public official, civic and political leader. At the age of 89. At his home in Fort Lauderdale. He was born on December 10, 1910 to the late Jacob and Pauline Fisher. He graduated from Seward Park High School and from St. John's University College of Law Cum Laude. H
 GORDON-Mel. 75, passed December 25, 1999. Beloved husband to Herta, loving father to Mort and Jon, and uncle to Stuart and Pam. Proud grandfather to Max, Nikki, Ellie and Zoe. Adored by his daughters-in-law, Donna, Joan and Jess. He touched all who knew him. His boundless curiosity and deep
 GOULD-Seymour M. of Ho-HoKus, NJ and Palm Beach, FL on December 26, in Florida, age 71. Survived by beloved wife Virginia; loving daughter Susan Rehe, sonin-law Gregory and devoted grandson Eric of Alexandria, VA; also devoted son Rober, daughterin-law Denise and loving grandchildren Laura,
 HELLINGER-Jim. On December 27, 1999, at age 84. Husband of Eleanor; father of Doug, Steve, John, and Bob; grandfather of Danny, Sam, Abigail, and Laura. Retired President of Anglo-African Shipping Co. of N.Y.; Harvard Law School Class of 1937; CCNY Class of 1934; Townsend Harris Class of 19
 JAFFIN-George. The Board of the Jewish Campus Life Fund of Columbia University/Barnard College mourns the passing of our good friend and esteemed Board Member George Jaffin. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Janet, their children, David, Doris and Lois and entire family. May they be comforte
 LANSER-Mannie. On Dec. 24, 1999. Beloved husband of Lillian, loving father of Steven and Marc, devoted grandfather of Eric, Amanda, and Toby, caring fatherin-law of Deborah and Lisa, much loved stepfather of Lucy, stepfather-in-law of Jennie, stepgrandfather of Lily and Jacob. He had a prof
 MAYFIELD-Curtis. We regret the untimely passing of our recently elected inductee, Curtis Mayfield. We will miss him tremendously. The Officers & Board of Directors Songwriters' Hall of Fame       
 WAMPLER-Melvin H., Reverend, Patriarch and devoted servant of Our Lord, formerly of The Bronx, NY and Groceclose, VA. He pastored the Pilgrim United Church of Christ in the Bronx, NY for 39 years and is Pastor Emeritus. Survived by his wife, Emily Sperry Wampler, one son Stanley E. and Raph
 WEINER-Morton. The entire Sanz-Laniado Hospital family is deeply saddened by the passing of Morton Weiner, father of our distinguished benefactors Estanne and Marty Fawer. Our sincerest condolences to his wife Edith Weiner, daughters Jeri Oestreicher and Mareene Weg and their families. Our 
 Woodrow Borah, a former professor of Latin American history at the University of California at Berkeley who documented the decimation of Mexico's native population resulting from the Spanish conquest, died on Dec. 10  at Kaiser Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Berkeley.   
 Clayton Moore, who grew up wanting to be a cowboy or a policeman and fulfilled both ambitions by playing the Lone Ranger on television, in the movies and at nostalgia shows,  died yesterday at West Hills Hospital in West Hills, Calif. He was 85 and was portraying the Masked Man long after h
 Lawrence J. Majewski, an internationally known art conservation expert who headed an American team of conservators in Florence, Italy, after flooding there in 1966, died on Dec. 2 at his home in Wappingers Falls, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was leukemia, said Prof. Margaret Holben Ell
 Louis Feraud, a prominent French fashion designer who first made his name in the mid-1950's when Brigitte Bardot began wearing his brightly colored summer dresses, died on Tuesday at his home in Paris. He was 79. French news reports said he had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease.      
 BAKER-James Anderson. Born October 6, 1927 in Garland Texas, Died December 27, 1999 in Naples, FL. Graduated from Garland Texas Public Schools. Attended Texas A & M then on to study and graduate with a BSEE from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, TX. Later attended and graduated from 
 DAVIS-Franklin Norman., M.D. On Monday, December 27, 1999, of Bethesda, MD, and a native of NYC. Beloved husband of Miryam M. Davis; devoted father of Paul (Pablo) Julian (Elizabeth Marcela), Karl Bertrand and Dr. Sinclair Robert; and loving brother of Jerome (Jerry). Dr. Davis is also surv
 FISHER-Harold. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of the Brooklyn Chapter of the American Red Cross in Greater New York extend condolences to the Fisher family on the loss of their father, grandfather and great-grandfather. Our thoughts are with all of them at this time, especiall
 GOLDENSON-Leonard H.. The Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with profound and deep sorrow the passing of Leonard Goldenson, who helped to create both ABC and UCP. As a result of rubella during pregnancy, Leonard and Isabelle's eldest daughter, Genise, n
 GORDON-Mel. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute bids farewell to a leader. A member of the Institute's Board of Trustees, Mr. Gordon joined the Board in 1965 and served as its President from 1969 through 1993. He was instrumental in helping to pilot White into international p
 GRANT-Harold. Of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of West Orange, New Jersey. Passed away Dec. 28, 1999. Beloved husband of Barbara & the late Bernice. Loving father of Nancy Grant and Joan Grant and step father of Priscilla Stein and John Wagner. Cherished grandfather of Adam, James, Lauren a
 JAFFIN-George. It is with great sorrow that HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, notes the passing of a dear friend and Jewish communal leader. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Neil Greenbaum, President Leonard Glickman, Exec V.P.       
 KORDUBA-Zdan, MD. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Zdan Korduba, MD. An attending anesthesiologist at St. Luke's for over a quarter century, Dr. Korduba upheld our finest traditions of medical care and clinical excellence. He was devoted to his
 LYDEN-Helen V.. Of Southbury, wife of the late J. Kenneth Lyden died December 27, 1999. Mother of two sons and their wives, John K. and RoseMarie of Armonk, New York, Richard A. & Cecelia of Camp Hill, Pa., grandmother, great grandmother and aunt. Wake services on Dec. 29, 1999 from 3 to 8 
 MOERLINS-Philip P.., 53, of New York City, died suddenly at his home on December 25, 1999. He is survived by his sister Joan M. Durbano, his nephew Arthur J. Durbano,III and niece Juliet Durbano. Services were held privately. Contributions may be made to the American Diabetes Association, T
 REISNER-Edward H.., Jr., MD. The entire family of St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Dr. Edward Hartman Reisner, Jr. An oncologist at St. Luke's Hospital for over four decades, Dr. Reisner upheld our finest traditions of medical care, clinical excellence, and groundbr
 SELIGMAN-Abe. on December 28, 1999. Survivied by his wife Ruth, sons Steve and Gene, daughter-inlaw Sharon, grandsons Scott and Russ, and great granddaughterShana. Service Wednesday 1:15pm at ''The Riverside'' 76 St & Amsterdam Ave.       
 SHOSTAK-Joseph. of Ft. Lee, NJ, on Dec. 28, 1999. Beloved husband of Claire (nee Zaro). Devoted father of Edwin and Mitchell Shostak, Madeline Blaiklock, and Gary Birnbaum. Dear father-in-law of Carolyn Iu and Beth Birnbaum. Loving grandfather of Jeremy, Haley, Evan, Matthew and Justin, and
 TERRY-Robert Lee. Born June 20, 1919 in Princeton, N.J. and was brought up in Princeton. He attended Groton School & Princeton University. He had homes in both Princeton, N.J. and Palm Beach, FL. During his fifty year tenure with Florida Public Utilities, he served as Chairman of the Board,
 VANACORE-Gennaro. On December 27, 1999 at age 40, after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Jennifer Handler Vanacore. Loving father of Dominick Maxwell. Devoted son of Dominick & Nancy. Loving brother of Stephen and Elizabeth. He was a noted restaurateur and proprietor asso
 WEINER-Morton. The entire Sanz-Laniado Hospital family is deeply saddened by the passing of Morton Weiner, father of our distinguished benefactors Estanne and Marty Fawer. Our sincerest condolences to his wife Edith Weiner, daughters Jeri Oestreicher and Maxeene Weg and their families. Our 
 Richard J. Cattani, former editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Friday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 63. His wife, Jacqueline, said his death followed a long illness. Mr. Cattani joined The Monitor in 1968 and in the next 29 years held every major report
 Irving Rapper, whose 50-year directorial career reached its peak at the Warner Brothers studio in the 1940's when he made a series of films with Bette Davis and who frequently drew upon his early stage experiences to adapt Broadway hits to the screen, died Dec. 20 at the Motion Picture and 
 BERNSTEIN-Seymour R.. Formerly a long-time resident of North Bellmore, New York. Died on December 27th, 1999 in Boca Raton, Florida. A veteran of W.W. II, he had been a manufacturing furrier and salesman in retail pharmaceuticals until his retirement in 1982. He is survived by his loving wi
 BRYANT-C. Willard., 92. In New London, New Hampshire, on Dec. 29, 1999. Formerly of Greenwich, CT. General Electric employee for 47 years. His wife of 58 years, Dorothy (Johnson) Bryant, died in 1993. He is survived by his daughter, Susan B. Chacho, of New London, NH; a grandson, Marine Cap
 DIENNO-Christopher George., of Bala Cynwyd, PA. Died suddenly December 28, 1999. Husband of Michelle Lynne DiEnno, father of Abigail Claire DiEnno and Olivia Grace DiEnno, son of Nino and Marilyn (MacIndoe) DiEnno, grandson of Jack and Augustine MacIndoe and brother of Lisa Levy and Lauri H
 GORDON-Mel. The Executive Board and employees of Sandy Alexander, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of Mel Gordon, our former Founding Managing Partner. Mel was dedicated to the growth and success of Sandy Alexander, and the memory of his contributions will be an inspiration to us all
 SHOSTAK-Joseph. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Joseph Shostak, the executive vice president and past executive director of The Shield Institute, a new affiliate of JBFCS. Mr. Shostak's committment and dedication to people wi
 SUMERS-Leo B.. Retired CSM, U.S. Army and hospital administrator. Died on December 28, 1999 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Patricia (nee Patrizio) and the late Elizabeth (nee Kelly). Also survived by son & daughterin-law Michael B. and Rosanne Sumers. Contributions may be 
 VANACORE-Gennaro. On December 27, 1999 at age 40, after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Jennifer Handler Vanacore. Loving father of Dominick Maxwell. Devoted son of Dominick & Nancy. Loving brother of Stephen and Elizabeth. He was a noted restaurateur and proprietor asso
 WYON-Reginald F.. On December 27, 1999, at age 92. Husband of the late Olive Wyon. Survived by nieces Suzanne Ghonim of Australia and Paula Wyon-Brown of England. Also survived by sister Ena Johnson of England. He was a member of the St. Georges Club and the Circumnavigator's Club and a vet
 Tito Guizar, the limpid-eyed singer and actor who brought Mexican cowboy music to New York and opened the way for Mexican performers in Hollywood, died on Friday in San Antonio. He was 91. Mr. Guizar was the first and most enduring of Mexico's singing charros, as the cowboys in broa
 Bernard Smith, who edited authors like Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett and Langston Hughes at Alfred A. Knopf, wrote well-regarded books and produced such Hollywood films as ''Elmer Gantry'' and ''How the West Was Won,'' died on Dec. 21 at the Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Center in Los A
 Israel Myers, the originator of the London Fog raincoat, died on Sunday at the North Oaks retirement community in Pikesville, Md. He was 93. After making raincoats for the Army in World War II, Mr. Myers's Londontown Manufacturing Company was the first to popularize the military tre
 BIEN-Ruth. We extend heartfelt condolences to Lionel Fisch, Leila Geberer, Michael, Ralph, Elliot and Jonathan Bien, on the passing of their beloved sister and mother. Diamond Founders of the Medical Center, Lionel and his wife, Ruth, exemplify the highest standards of tzedakah and chesed. 
 ELLIOTT-Tim C.V. Tim, passed away at home in Manhattan, early morning December 30 after a short but courageous battle with pancreatic cancer, at age 51. Born in Dorset, England, educated at Harrow School, Cambridge University, and in the far flung reaches of the world, Tim's humor and selfl
 FRIEDLAND-Ira L. Died December 27, 1999 at JFK Medical Center in Edison, New Jersey. He was 72 years old. At the start of his career, Mr. Friedland owned Diamond Management, a real estate management company in Edison, and AMI Construction, a building & development firm in Middlesex County. 
 FRIEDMAN-Walter. Died at the age of 80 in Boca Raton, Florida. Devoted husband of his late wife, Sylvia. Beloved father of Diane Freed Conway and Alexandra Palley. Loving grandfather of Molly Conway, Skyler Conway, Thea Palley and Aaron Palley. Loving and devoted companion of Jeanne Halevy 
 GALTON-Harry A. December 18, 1999 at his daughter's home. Age 93. Professor of Dentistry and Orthodontics at Columbia University. Practiced for over 60 years and never missed a day. World traveler, delightful ra conteur. He helped all who knew him. He led a remarkable life. Predeceased by d
 GOLDFARB-Jerry, Dr. The members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their friend and member and extend their sympathy to his family. Leonard Danon, President       
 REESE-William Willis II. The Members, Directors and Officers of The Soldiers', Sailors', Marines' and Airmen's Club deeply regret the sudden and untimely passing of their great friend & benefactor, William Willis Reese, on 29 December, 1999. Self-effacing, quietly generous to a degree unpar
 SHOEMAKER - Perry Monroe. Former railroad executive Perry Monroe Shoemaker, 93 of Tampa, FL, died in Tampa on Christmas Day, December 25. He was a native of Elmira, NY, graduated from The University of Michigan with a BS in Engineering in 1928 and received a graduate degree in transportatio
 SLADKUS-John. We mourn the passing of John, loving husband of Ingrid, devoted father of Mark, Danny, and John, and our beloved friend. We will miss him. Nat & Jackie Arkin Martha & Alan Fleischer       
 YAMADA-Tadayoshi, one of Japan's leading internationalists, passed away on November 6, 1999. He was born on January 10, 1909 in Tottori Prefecture, Japan, received a Bachelor of Laws degree from Meiji University in 1933 and a Master of Arts degree in American history from Columbia Universit
 Reggie Carter, an outstanding guard for the unheralded St. John's University basketball team that came within one game of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament's Final Four in 1979, died last Friday at Huntington (N.Y.) Hospital. Carter, who lived in Huntington Station, wa
