 Charlie Zito, whose family bakery provided Greenwich Villagers with crusty, yeasty Italian bread for decades before it became fashionable, died of colon cancer on Friday at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 78 -- four years older than the plain little Bleecker Street shop where he
 Dan Quisenberry, the star reliever of the Kansas City Royals who was known for his delivery of submarine-style pitches on the mound and one-line quips off the field, died yesterday at his home in Kansas City, Mo. He was 45. Quisenberry had been suffering from brain cancer. He underw
 Eugene L. McCabe, a management consultant who founded and was president of North General Hospital, a thriving, minority-operated community hospital in Harlem, died there yesterday. He was 61. The cause was breast cancer, his family said. ''He was indefatigable in putting it 
 Jack Haskell, a familiar face to television viewers for some 30 years, first as the easygoing sidekick of Dave Garroway and then as a regular stand-in on Jack Paar's and Johnny Carson's shows, died on Saturday at the Actors Fund Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 79. Mr. Haskell
 ERLE-Richard. 96. Died peacefully on September 29. We mourn his loss and celebrate his long life: his beloved wife Hansi and their children Joan and Henry, Lola and Walter; their grandchildren Jeffrey Erle, David Erle, Debbie Ehrentreu, Steven Erle, Wendy Larson and their families. Funeral 
 FORGIONE-John L. On Sept. 28, 1998, at age 75, of Astoria, Queens, after a courageous battle with cancer. Accomplished painter, sculptor, film maker, photographer & swimmer. John will always be known for his generous nature, vigorous life style, and someone that ''spoke his mind.'' As a gra
 GOTTESMAN-Andrew, 89. Formerly of NYC, September 30, 1998. Gifted violinist, graduate of Budapest Conservatory and Juilliard, played with major orchestras and Broadway shows till he was 84. Devoted husband and father. Will be sorely missed by daughter, Regina, and son, Steven. Donations to 
 MANN-Irving. He was part of our extended family. We mourn with Michael, Meryl, Betsy, Adam and Marion and share the loss of a wonderful man. Lesley, Steven, Geoffrey Sanders       
 McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Governors, membership, and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association join with the health care community of New York in mourning the passing of Eugene McCabe, President of North General Hospital. A great friend and distinguished past Board member of th
 MOHR-Edward J. Jr., 72, retired engineer, who worked on the development of the first IBM digital computer, died September 28 of cancer. He also participated in monitoring early nuclear tests in Nevada. His ballroom dance friends will miss him very much. He is survived by a brother Richard M
 MURPHY-Joan. The Martin L. Stone Obstetrical and Gynecological Society of New York Medical College expresses profound sympathy to Robert Murphy, MD, former president and esteemed member of our society, for the untimely passing of his wife Joan. Our heartfelt sympathy also extends to his dau
 SIEGFRIED-Bernard. On September 28, 1998. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Robert and Jonathan. Dear grandfather of Amanda, David, Jeremy, Matthew and Rachel. Services at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65th Street, Thursday, October 1, 11:30 AM. In lieu of flowers a contribution 
 STRAUSS-Stanley. Our heartfelt sympathies and love to his wife Audrey, his children Wendy and Gary Pomerantz, Mark and Susan and Jill and his grandchildren Shari, Amanda and Lee. Stanley was an extraordinary man who cherished his family. His honesty, integrity, dedication and warm sense of 
 WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. Suddenly on September 30, 1998. Beloved husband of Wendy Schriber. Loving father of Jordan, Jonathan and Adam. Dear son of Seymour Weinstein. Services Friday at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. For service time call 212-362-6600. Contributions may be
 Louis L. Redding, Delaware's first black lawyer, who argued one of the cases that led to the Supreme Court's landmark 1954 decision that resulted in the desegregation of the nation's public schools, died on Monday at a hospital in Lima, Pa. He was 96 and lived in Glen Mills, Pa. The
 FINNEGAN-George B. Jr. One of the country's leading patent lawyers, passed away in California on September 30th at the age of 95. He was a familiar figure in Federal courtrooms throughout the United States and a member of the American College of Trial Lawyers. It was said that most of his w
 GELFAND-Morris A. With the deepest sorrow The Typophiles mourn the death of our former president, Morris A. Gelfand, who brought to our organization his abilities and knowledge of printing and the graphic arts and left an enduring legacy through his contributions. Theo Rehak, President     
 KANE-Herbert S. We mourn his loss and celebrate his life. Cherished and survived by his loving wife Janice, their children Randy, Daniel and Jon, sister Elaine, grandchildren Sadya, Emily and Lily. Memorial service Sunday, October 4, 2 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Stre
 KESSLER-Erik, born 1/1/24, Namsos, Norway, passed away on 9/24/ 98, Actors Fund Nursing Home of Englewood, NJ. Devoted father of Ingrid Pilley and Erika Schor. Loving grandfather of Sebastien and Apolline Pilley, David and Jason Schor. Survived by his second former wife, Diana Levy. For inf
 LASELL-Chester H. On September 30, 1998, in Greenwich, CT. His first wife Ruth D. Lasell died in 1973. In addition to his widow, Elizabeth G. Lasell, he is survived by two children-Virginia L. Westgaard, of Denver and Chester K. Lasell, of Manchester, VT and Vero Beach, FL; a stepdaughter, 
 MANN-Irving. The Seawane Club records with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Irving Mann. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Marion, and their family. Robert Roman, President       
 McCABE - Eugene L. The Trustees, Faculty and staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai-NYU Medical Center and Health System, deeply mourn the passing of Eugene L. McCabe, founder and President of North General Hospital, an affiliate of Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Gene 
 PETSCHEK-Walter. Age 99, of Scarsdale, NY on September 27. Devoted husband of the late Franziska, loving father of Alfred, Stephen and Susan Petschek. Beloved grandfather of Jennifer and Alexandra Petschek. Pursuant to his wishes, services were private. PETSCHEK-Walter. United Conti
 SCHLICHTER-Arthur I. On October 1, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Terry Reineman Schlichter. Dearest friend of Gladys Luria. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Friday, October 2 at 11:30 A.M. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the 
 SILVERMAN-Samuel. The Board of Governors and the members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemd member Samuel Silverman. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Sandra and his entire family. Leonard Shendell, President Judith Tarter, Secretary  
 WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. Died Tuesday evening of a sudden heart attack. All of us at Proskauer Rose LLP are united in our grief over the loss of this remarkable person. Herb possessed almost unparallelled energy and superior intellect which resulted in accomplishments rarely achieved. He approa
 WOHL-Arthur. His friends, family and former NYCHA colleagues will miss this extraordinary person. A memorial gathering will be held in the meeting room at 101 Clark Street, Brooklyn, on Sunday, October 4th, at 2PM.       
 McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Directors and the staff of Greater Harlem Nursing Home together with many others in the healthcare community, are deeply saddened by the loss of an exceptional healthcare leader and good friend. Under Gene's leadership the entire Harlem healthcare community dev
 Chester H. Lasell, a former president of Morgan Stanley & Company, the Wall Street brokerage and investment banking firm, died Wednesday at Greenwich, Conn.,  Hospital, where he was being treated for injuries after a recent automobile accident. He was 90 and had lived in Greenwich for 68 ye
 Gene Autry, America's first singing cowboy of the movies and a multimillionaire businessman, died yesterday at his home in the Studio City neighborhood of Los Angeles, said Karla Buhlman, vice president of Gene Autry Entertainment. He was 91. With his theme song, ''Back in the Saddl
 GELFAND-Morris A. Beloved companion of Judith Follmann, died on October 1st, 1998 age 90. He seemed possessed of eternal youth, & we will miss him deeply. He leaves family, James Munn Gelfand, Lisa Jay Gelfand, Grant & Amy Ujifusa, Jeffrey and Karen Brooks, & grandchildren Andrew and Zachar
 GOLDSTEIN-Murray. The Officers and Members of the New York Joint Board, Unite express deep sense of loss at the death of Murray Goldstein, former Manager of the New York Joint Board, ACWA, ACTWU, Unite. He served as Vice President of ACTWU, Vice President of the Sidney Hillman Health Center
 KLEIN-Stanley. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of its esteemed friend Stanley Klein. To his family and his associates at the Herman Goldman, our sincere condolences. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Melvin Sa
 LEVIEN-Henry. On October 1, 1998. Survived by his wife of 51 years Lois, two daughters Nancy Goodman and Louise Levien, sons-in-law Richard Goodman and Robert Eby, grandchildren David & Allison Eby and Eric Goodman, two brothers Edward and Robert. He was greatly loved and will be sorely mis
 McCABE-Eugene. The faculty, staff, students and alumni of the Program in Health Services Management and Policy in the Milano Graduate School of The New School, mourn the passing of a distinguished member of our adjunct faculty. Gene was a dedicated health leader and served as a role model a
 RUBY-Arthur, M.D. We mourn the loss of Dr. Arthur Ruby, a most illustrous member of the Alumni of NYU School of Medicine. Dr. Ruby was the ultimate physician pediatrician who for many years served his patients and their families with utmost professionalism and compassion. He was loved, high
 STRANGE-Randall S., 48. Of Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, formerly of New York City and Virginia, died on Thursday, September 24, 1998, after a long illness. Employed as Senior Litigation Counsel for W.R. Grace and Co., and graduate of the University of Virginia Law School. Devoted companion to t
 WEGMAN-Edward. Died at his home in Paris on September 29. He is survived by his wife Sophie Wegman, his sister Helen Ruth Freeman, his niece Elizabeth Zappala and her children, Miranda, Matthew, Christopher, Jeffrey.       
 WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. We admired him, we respected him, we relied upon him, and we loved him. He was an important part of our lives. We will miss him tremendously. Our deepest condolences to his wife Wendy & his children Jonathan, Adam, and Jordan. Joseph, Michelle, David and Stephanie Jacob
 Gary Thomas Rowe Jr., 64, a controversial F.B.I. informer who infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan during the civil rights struggles of the 1960's, died of a heart attack four months ago in Savannah, Ga. He was buried under the name of Thomas Neal Moore, the identity that Federal authorities helped
 Jerome Dempsey, an actor who worked in theater, film and television, died on Aug. 26 at his home in New York. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, his family said. A versatile artist who took on a wide variety of roles, Mr. Dempsey began his career in Toledo, Ohio, his ho
 The former chief executive of Siemens A.G., Karlheinz Kaske, died Sept. 27 after a long illness, the company reported from Munich. He was 70. Mr. Kaske, head of Siemens from 1981 until 1992, oversaw the growth of the German company into a global electronics and engineering giant dur
 BABINGTON-David H.A. 62, died recently in London after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife Ann and their children, Katharine and Philip. His career as an investment banker and financial consultant spanned over three decades in Frankfurt, Paris and London. A memorial services will be
 CHAITMAN-Leo. We regret to announce the passing of Leo Chaitman on Monday, September 28, 1998. He is survived by his wife Lottie, daughter Rochelle, son Barry and his grandchildren. He will always be remembered for his kindness and generosity to all.       
 CLARK-Lon. On October 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Michelle. Loving father of Lon Jr. and Stephen and step-father of Timothy and George Morse. Grandfather of Lon III. Dear brother of Gerald and Eduard. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM, a
 FINCK-Marshall G., 78. Of West Palm Beach. Suddenly of acute leukemia. Former Chairman of Wilson Brothers, President of Enro Shirt Company. Highly decorated W.W. II Naval officer. Admired for his intellect and wit. Survived by his adoring wife Edie, loving son Robert, daughter Nancie Goldsm
 GELB-Irving. 87. Formerly of Brooklyn. Died September 13, following a prolonged illness. He leaves a legacy of dynamic leadership in the men's hat and cap industry in New York City. Boundless energy, good humor, kindness, unbelievable family devotion and generosity, superior intelligence, c
 HARRIS-Robert Knight. We mourn the passing of our dad and grandfather, Bob Harris, his thoughtfulness, patience, style, dignity and sense of humor will be missed. He has made a lasting impression on all of us and he will be in our hearts forever. Jenny, Kate, Gail Walter and Bette Ann      
 KLEIN-Stanley. The Officers, Members of the Board and the Administration of OHEL, BAIS EZRA and The Lifetime Care Foundation for the Jewish Disabled mourn the tragic passing of Stanley Klein, compassionate, caring, and visionary leader. As President of the Herman Goldman Foundation, his eff
 LEVIEN-Henry. On October 1, 1998. Survived by his wife of 51 years Lois, two daughters Nancy Goodman and Louise Levien, sons-in-law Richard Goodman and Robert Eby, grandchildren David & Allison Eby and Eric Goodman, two brothers Edward and Robert. He was greatly loved and will be sorely mis
 LIEBERMAN-Stuart. With the deepest sorrow we mourn the loss of a man whose greatest love and joy was his wife, Molly, his children and grandchildren. The Klebanow Family       
 McCABE-Eugene. Since North General Hospital's inception, we have had the pleasure of working with a great leader of people and fulfiller of dreams. As few others, if any, could, he was able to reconcile his mandate for pragmatism with his compassion for the Hospital's client community and i
 PEARLMAN-Stephen. Born February 26, 1935. died September 30, 1998, Yom Kippur, at home with his family after a long struggle with cancer. The tenacious optimism and courage with which he faced his illness was an inspiration to all who knew him. Beloved husband of Dr. Stefanie Solow Glennon.
 RUBY-Dr. Arthur. Of Manhattan and Cold Spring, New York, died October 2, after a lengthy illness. During Dr. Ruby's 44 years in practice he was President of the Brooklyn Pediatric Society and Founding President and Medical Director of The Brooklyn Center for Families in Crisis. He was also 
 TAYLOR-Walter C. 77. Retired assistant general counsel at Eli Lilly & Co. Died on October 2, 1998, Martinsville, IN. Served in the U.S. Navy on the battleship U.S.S. Massachusetts during WW II. Received his L.L.B. degree from Columbia University Law School. He practiced law in NYC with Simp
 WEINER-Harold, Dr., 84. Of Laguna Hills, California, formerly of Brooklyn Heights, New York, died suddenly on September 30, 1998. Husband of the late Mildred Olesh. Devoted father of Lois Prensky of Stamford, CT and the late Joanne Drutz. Caring father-in-law to David Prensky and Martin and
 Robert Lewis Taylor, a prolific and witty writer of a Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, a respected biography of W. C. Fields and New Yorker articles that a magazine colleague and memoirist called ''some of the funniest profiles we ever published,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Southbury, C
 Roddy McDowall, who provoked tears of sadness, sympathy and joy from millions of moviegoers for his boyhood roles in ''How Green Was My Valley,'' ''Lassie Come Home'' and other film classics of the 1940's, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. Mr. McDowall, who went on to become a vers
 It was considered quite a show at the time: a brazen British bombing raid in 1943 on a trio of strategic German dams carried out with such high-spirited elan, employing such delightfully preposterous techniques and producing such spectacular success that it gave an immediate boost to batter
 BAUMERT-William A. Age 75, of Spring Lake, formerly of Pelham Manor, NY. Husband of Marjorie (Kelleher) Baumert. Funeral services Monday, 10:15 AM, from O'Brien Funeral Home, Hwy. 35, Wall, NJ, followed by an 11:15 AM Mass of Christian Burial in St. Elizabeths R.C. Church, Avon, NJ. Interme
 CLARK-Lon. On October 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Michelle. Loving father of Lon Jr. and Stephen and step-father of Timothy and George Morse. Grandfather of Lon III. Dear brother of Gerald and Eduard. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM, a
 HARRIS-Robert Knight. We mourn the passing of our dad and grandfather, Bob Harris, his thoughtfulness, patience, style, dignity and sense of humor will be missed. He has made a lasting impression on all of us and he will be in our hearts forever. Jenny, Kate, Gail Walter and Bette Ann      
 McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Managers and staff of State Communities Aid Association (SCAA) join with others in offering a final tribute to our board member and friend, Gene McCabe. Gene brought to all of his efforts, a passion and concern for the poor, a wealth of knowledge and a vision f
 ROSE-Dr. Sydney J. 82. Died on October 3, 1998, in Winchester, MA. Beloved husband for 55 years of Hester. Dear father of Linda Portnay and Jeffrey Rose. Devoted grandfather of Rebecca and Ted Portnay, and Jennifer and Joshua Rose. He practiced family medicine in Flushing, Queens. His kindn
 RUBY-Dr. Arthur. Dr. Ruby honored the Brooklyn Center for Famliies in Crisis by serving as our President from our inception in 1983. A pediatrician with a true understanding of the importance of mental health's place in a child's well being, he will be greatly missed by us all. Our deepest 
 SPERRY-Stuart M. On September 25, 1998, Professor Emeritus of English at Indiana University, died peacefully at his home in London, England. He was the son of the late Stuart M. Sperry and Doris Laidlaw Sperry and husband of Sophie, and brother of Suzanne Sperry Klay of N.H. Educated at Hal
 ANDERSON - Rosamond Marie ''Andy''. Died Oct 4, 1997. Sweet be thy rest and peaceful thy sleeping, God's way is best, Thou art in his keeping. Mother, loved ones & friends       
 Philip Grushkin, a book designer whose work made him the standard-bearer throughout the publishing industry, died on Sept. 25 at Hackensack University Medical Center in Hackensack, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Englewood, N.J. The cause was heart failure, his daughter, Dena G. Florczy
 Joseph H. Baum, the tirelessly innovative restaurateur who created a new American style in dining with theme restaurants like the Four Seasons, the Forum of the Twelve Caesars and La Fonda del Sol, and who gave new meaning to high style in skyscraper restaurants like Windows on the World an
 Marius Goring, a British actor who played Shakespearean villains and Nazi officers and stole Moira Shearer's heart in the classic ballet film, ''The Red Shoes,'' died on Wednesday at his home in the West Sussex county of England. He was 86 and had cancer, the BBC reported. Although 
 AUTRY-Gene. The Board of Directors and members of the National Academy of Popular Music and the Songwriters' Hall of Fame regret the passing of Gene Autry, past recipient of the Sammy Cahn Lifetime Achievement Award. He will be greatly missed. Bobby Weinstein, President       
 BAUM-Joseph. On October 5 at age 78. Beloved husband of Ruth and father of Hilary, Charles and Edward. Grandfather of Anna, Alexander, Alexandra, Trevor, Graham and Kiva. Great grandfather of Anaia. Funeral services will be private. A memorial celebration will be announced at a later date. 
 BLOMQUIST-Arnold R. January 3, 1930-September 25, 1998. Of New York City. Survived by stepdaughter Karin Naess of Norway, two grandchildren, sisters Alice Blomquist and Margaret Christiansen of FL. He was pre-deceased by his wife Judith & two brothers, William and Alfred. Cremation was priv
 CLARK-Lon. We mourn the loss of our dear and highly respected member. A Player since 1945, Lon was a true man of the theatre as well as radio. His feistiness and tenacity for what he thought right will be remembered by generations of our members. His contributions to his beloved profession 
 FEIN-Harry. Thursday, September 17. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Loving father of Merryl and Alan and their spouses Bernard and Lucy. Adoring grandfather of Dr. Corey Greenwald and wife Dr. Megan Missette and Vicki Greenwald Auerbach and husband Jonathan. Great grandfather to Taran 
 GRUBEL-Fred, 90. On October 4. Beloved husband for 63 years of Lisa, devoted father of Henry, Eva and Lucille, father-in-law of Robert & Dick, loving grandfather of Roslyn, Audrey and Joe, David and Amy, Eliane and Carl, Howie and Rachel, and great-grandfather of Jaclyn, Jonathan, Eric, Sam
 HARRIS-Robert Knight. The Board of Directors and the staff of the National Conference for Community and Justice, Greater N.Y. Region, founded as the National Conference of Christians and Jews join with others in offering a final tribute to our Board Chair and longtime friend. His commitment
 KINNUCAN-William A.H. On October 4, 1998. Beloved son of Alfred & Mary. Loving brother of Nancy Doty and Jane Page. Dear friend of Trish Moylan Torruella. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday, October 7, 2-5 and 79PM. Memorial mass at Church of 
 MENDELSON-J. Gary. Devoted husband of Linda; loving father of Meredith (Jeb) Mendelson Bryan and Amy Mendelson. Born April 11, 1939, a graduate of Long Island University and Brooklyn Law School. Services were held in Los Angeles following his death on September 21, 1998.       
 PATTERSON-Patrick J. October 3, 1998 of Forest Hills, New York. Son of the late Myrtle M. (Handel) and Patrick C. Husband of the late MaryAnn (Bellamacina). Father of Judith N. McBride, brother of Nancy L. Polash of Macungie, PA. Grandfather of Donald T. McBride III. Also survived by nieces
 SCHNECK-Herman, MD. On Oct. 5 at home. Survived by his loving wife of 55 years Muriel, devoted sister Margaret, brothers Jerome and Stuart, nephews Ronald and Mark Rogart, grand nephew Jason and grand niece Stephanie. Services Wednesday, Oct. 6, at Park West Riverside Chapel, 333 Amsterdam 
 SCHWAB-Eleonora. All of us at the National Committee on American Foreign Policy extend our heartfelt sympathy to our esteemed President, George D. Schwab, on the loss of his beloved wife, Eleonora. Our thoughts and prayers are with him and his sons, Clarence, Claude and Solon. William J. Fl
 TRIVILINO-Joseph Paul ''Jo Jo'' on October 4, 1998. Beloved son of Anna and Alfred B. Brother to Alfred C., Dessy, Rosanna, Cristina and Loretta. Brother-in-law to Robert, Jennifer, Mark and Jeff. Uncle to Caraline, Victoria, Emma and Jake. Buddy to Bert, Gus and Greta. Friend to all who kn
 WELLS-Robert. The Board of Directors and members of the National Academy of Popular Music regret the passing of Robert Wells, a recent inductee into the Songwriters' Hall of Fame. His ''Christmas Song'', co-written with Mel Torme, will live in the hearts of music lovers forever. Bobby Weins
 Robert Wells, a lyricist and composer who also wrote and produced programs for television, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 75. The cause was cancer, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers said in a statement. Working with the si
 Federico Zeri, an  Italian art historian whose expertise was sought by many American museums and private collectors, died on Monday of a heart attack in his villa outside Rome, the news agency ANSA reported. He was 77. An expert in medieval and Renaissance art, Mr. Zeri was among th
 Jerome Weidman, the prolific and popular novelist who wrote ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale'' and also won a Pulitzer Prize as the author (with George Abbott) of the Broadway musical ''Fiorello!,'' died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. In his two prosperous careers as
 Mark Belanger, the smooth-fielding Baltimore Oriole shortstop of the 1970's who won eight Gold Glove awards, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Belanger, who lived in New York, was 54. He developed pneumonia after having suffered from cancer, acco
 BAUM-Joe. The Citymeals-onWheels family is sadly diminished by the loss of one of its own, Joe Baum, our Board member and long-time friend. Joe's heart was as expansive as his vision. His loving generosity to New York's homebound elderly was abundant and ceaseless. His Rainbow Room has been
 BERGER-Herman. Beloved husband of Frances. Devoted father of Leonard & Joel and father-inlaw of Barbara and Hinda. Adored grandfather of Betsy and Michael Moreno, Amy and Lee Certilman, Dina and David Bortnichak and Lauren. Loving great grandfather of Andrew, Reid & Alex. Services Wednesday
 CLARK-Lon. On radio, ''Nick Carter-Master Detective.'' In life, master diplomat. Friend and beloved of countless through The Episcopal Actors' Guild. He was a stellar figure at The Players. And depending on the circustances, father or brother to me. David Wren, Philadelphia, PA       
 DIX-Robert Heller. Professor emeritus of political science at Rice University, died October 3 from complications arising from multiple sclerosis and cancer. Born in Elizabeth, N.J., in 1930, he received his undergraduate and graduate degrees from Harvard University. He served at the America
 KASSNER-Fred. Passed away October 6, 1998 after a long illness. Mr. Kassner was Co-Founder of Liberty Travel and Go-Go Worldwide Vacations. He was a pioneer in the leisure travel business, and is recognized as revolutionizing the business by making package vacations available to the general
 KAZANOFF-Paul E. A man of wit, dignity, high intelligence and commitment, with a passion for music and theater, on October 6, 1998. Son of Theodore and Lee and brother of Mark. Memorial service Thursday, October 8th, 7PM at The Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64 St, NYC. His family, fri
 KINNUCAN-William A.H. On October 4, 1998. Beloved son of Alfred & Mary. Loving brother of Nancy Doty and Jane Page. Dear friend of Trish Moylan Torruella. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday, October 7, 2-5 and 79PM. Memorial mass at Church of 
 LEE-John Ludlow. John Ludlow Lee, a one time account executive with Hill, Holliday, Ogilvy & Mather, and Wells, Rich, Greene, died on September 13 at his home in West Hollywood, California. He was fifty-one years old and had lived in Los Angeles since 1988. Born in Bernardsville, New Jersey
 LEVINSON-Leonard. Of Teaneck, NJ. Husband, father, brother, uncle, friend. He will be remembered as the kindest man anyone knew. He personified the word ''good''. He always smiled, even in his sleep. Our lives are forever enriched because this loving man was our husband and father. Julie, K
 McDOWALL-Roddy. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Bay Street Theater are deeply saddened by the loss of a dear friend, Mr. Roddy McDowall. His generosity of spirit, loyalty, humor and talent will be sorely missed. He will always be remembered for his contributions to the world of film 
 MERKEL-Mortimer L. Age 84. Of Pembroke Pines, Fla., formerly of New York. On October 4, 1998. Beloved husband of Ruth, cherished father of Howard and Jeffrey. Dear father-in-law of Suzanne and Jo-Ann. Loving grandfather of Allison, Andrew, Judd and Jessica. Devoted brother of Adrienne Beren
 MORSE-Milton. Of Fort Lee, N.J. Died Monday in his home. He was 85. Mr Morse founded APM HEXSEAL Corporation of Englewood, N.J. in 1946 and remained active as its President and CEO until his death. Holder of more than 100 patents worldwide, he was recently inducted into the N.J. Inventors H
 SHEPPARD-Carl Dunkle, Jr. Age 82, died Saturday, October 3, 1998 in Santa Fe, NM. Mr. Sheppard retired to Santa Fe in 1983 as Emeritus Professor and Chair of the Department of Art History, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. He served as President of the International Center of Medieval A
 TRIVILINO-Joseph Paul ''Jo Jo'' on October 4, 1998. Beloved son of Anna and Alfred B. Brother to Alfred C., Dessy, Rosanna, Cristina and Loretta. Brother-in-law to Robert, Jennifer, Mark and Jeff. Uncle to Caraline, Victoria, Emma and Jake. Buddy to Bert, Gus and Greta. Friend to all who kn
 Charles B. Delafield, a former executive for Consolidated Edison, died on Sept. 22 at Glengariff Health Care Center in Glen Cove, N.Y. Mr. Delafield, a resident of East Norwich, N.Y., was 93. He joined Con Edison, the public utility company, in 1946 as an assistant to the president.
 Fred Kassner, the co-founder of Liberty Travel and a pioneer in bringing many of the world's exotic vacation spots within reach of people of modest means, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Ridgewood, N.J. The cause was can
 Myron E. Scott, an Ohio-born photographer who had such an uneventful career he probably wouldn't have attracted much attention if there hadn't been a couple of inspired blips in an otherwise satisfyingly humdrum life, died on Sunday at his home in Kettering, Ohio. He was 91. Mr. Sco
 BIRKOFER-John. On October 7, 1998. Loving father of Catherine Johnson, Karin Sturtevant, Carole Rynn and Anne Ellis, dear brother of Richard and William Birkofer and devoted grandfather of seven. Services will be Sat., 9:00am from Gleason Funeral Home, 1360 Hamilton St., Somerset, NJ., foll
 FULLER-Stephen Dow. Age 90, passed away after a short illness Oct. 6, 1998 at St. Francis Hospital, Roslyn, New York. Survived by his beloved wife, Emily Hurry Fuller. He is also survived by daughters, Emily Fuller Kingston of New York City and Ann B. Fuller of Big Horn, Wyoming & a son, St
 HURWITZ-Jerome, Dr. The Jewish Braille Institute of America, rocords with sorrow the loss of a much loved honorary Life Trustee and former officer. His devotion over many years helped to create new opportunities for the blind and visually impaired worldwide. His essential involvement in the
 KASSNER-Fred. Passed away on October 6, 1998 after a long illness. Mr. Kassner was Co-Founder of Liberty Travel and Go-Go Worldwide Vacations. He was a pioneer in the leisure travel business, and is recognized as revolutionizing the business by making package vacations available to the gene
 LOCKHEIMER-Frank H. October 5th, 1998 of Teaneck, N.J. Prior to retiring in 1972, he was in charge of Gulden's Mustard Division of American Home Foods. Beloved husband of Marie (nee Wiecoreck). Devoted father of Gary and F. Roy Lockheimer. Loving grandfather of F. Hiroshi Lockheimer. Religi
 REICH-Simon, age 92. Cherished husband of the late Anna. Beloved father of Drs. Walter & Raymond. Devoted father-in-law of Tova and Sue. Adored grandfather of Daniel, David and Rebecca, and of Yael (and David Hillel), Shlomo (and Adina), Yitzchak, Yosef and Avigail. Survivor of the Holocaus
 SANDLER-Professor Joseph J. The officers and members of the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine and the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourn the passing of our beloved and esteemed colleague. He will be sorely missed. Burton A. Lerner, M.D., Presiden
 TROY-Rabbi Albert. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who served Temple B'nai Abraham in Meriden, CT from 1951-1977 after his army chaplaincy during World War II where he dedicated himself to helping Displaced Persons. After his retirement, he was instrumental in the
 UNTERBERG-Aaron. All of us at the East Midwood Jewish Center profoundly mourn the passing of this paragon of religiosity. He was a learned Jew who loved to pray and fulfill the commandments of our faith. He was also the consummate gentleman and a friend to all. He will be sorely missed. We 
 Roger Vivier, a leading shoe designer whose innovations in heel and toe shapes changed the silhouette of women's shoes, died on Friday at his home in Toulouse, France. He was 90. Mr. Vivier created shoes for a number of the major French couture designers, including Christian Dior, Y
 Joseph P. Merlino, a rough-hewn Democrat who was a powerful figure in New Jersey politics for years, serving two terms as State Senate president and helping enact key legislation, died on Wednesday at the Forrestal Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Princeton, N.J., where he had been for 
 Lon Clark, who began his career in radio drama and went on to a theatrical career on and Off Broadway, died on Friday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Clark made his name as the rich baritone voice of a radio sleuth, starring from 1943 to 1
 Lyman S. Ford, who in the 1960's was president of what became United Way of America and who pushed the old Community Chests to become a financing channel for President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, died Monday of pneumonia at a hospice in Hillsborough, N.C., United Way of America said
 Menashe Zemro, the last remaining ques, or traditional spiritual leader of Ethiopian Jews, died on Wednesday in Qiryat Gat, the town where he settled after arriving in Israel in 1991. He was 92. His funeral yesterday in Qiryat Gat, in southern Israel, attracted thousands of mourners
 BIRKOFER-John R. The Members of The Board of Trustees of The Catholic Charities of The Archdiocese of New York record with heartfelt sympathy the death of John R. Birkofer. He served as a Member of our Board of Trustees for many years. We treasure greatly the inspiration of his leadership a
 FULLER-Stephen Dow. Age 90, passed away after a short illness Oct. 6, 1998 at St. Francis Hospital, Roslyn, New York. Survived by his beloved wife, Emily Hurry Fuller. He is also survived by daughters, Emily Fuller Kingston of New York City and Ann B. Fuller of Big Horn, Wyoming & a son, St
 HARRIS-Robert Knight. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Robert Knight Harris, devoted husband, father and grandfather. Our sympathies are extended to his wife, Myrna, and his children, Betty Ann; Walter and his wife, Gail; Michelle; Caren an
 HURWITZ-Jerome O.D. Beloved husband of Hortense, devoted father of Sanford and Robert, father-in-law of Rhona, loving grandfather of Jade. Services at 11 A.M. on Sunday at Union Temple of Brooklyn, 17 Eastern Parkway. Memorial contributions to Union Temple of Brooklyn, or the Jewish Braille
 KARSTAEDT-David. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its member, Marc Karstaedt. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President       
 KWITKO-Irving D., age 87, born in Russia and resided for many years in Brooklyn and North Miami Beach, Florida with his late beloved wife Sally. Survived by daughter Gloria Bell and son-inlaw Donald of Palm Beach Garden, Florida and son Edward and daughter-in-law Carla of Melville, Long Isl
 McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Directors and Staff of Weston United Community Renewal, Inc. deeply mourn the untimely death of our Board President and distinguished leader, Eugene L. McCabe. His compassion and profound commitment to all of those in medical need assured that the least fortuna
 MUSSER-Robert John, age 77. Formerly of Greenwich, Conn., died Tuesday, October 6, 1998. Born in New York City, son of the late Dr. John and Grace Musser. He graduated Yale in 1942 and M.I.T. with a M.S. in 1947. He was a former Director of Planning for Union Carbide, Europe. He had served 
 RAILING-Lewis Ira, age 76, of New York City, died on Thursday, September 24, 1998, at Newport Hospital, Newport, RI, after a long illness. He was the husband of the late Trudy Kalbfleisch Railing of Wheeling, W.V. Born in Baltimore, on September 23, 1923, he was the son of the late Lewis Ir
 WILLIAMSON-Bruce, age 71. On Oct. 6, 1998. ''The Noel Coward of Film Critics'', Playboy magazines movie critic for thirty-one years. Living on in his daughter Stephanie, son-in-law Joseph, grandsons Henry & Ethan; his sisters Alberta and Janette and many nieces and nephews. Forever loved by
 WOLSTEIN-Benjamin, Ph.D. On October 7, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Irma Holland. Loving uncle of Carlos Wolstein. Dear great-uncle of Patricia & Claudia. Service on Friday, at 11 A.M., at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. WOLSTEIN-Benjamin, Ph.D. The members
 Chang Chong-Jen, a Chinese painter and sculptor who inspired the comic strip artist known as Herge to create Chang, one of the most loved characters in the renowned Tintin books, died on Thursday at an artists' retirement home outside Paris. He was 93. For most readers of the classi
 Hoke S. Simpson, a former associate dean at the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University, died on Sept. 26 at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. Mr. Simpson, a resident of Rye, N.Y., was 83. The cause of death was lung disease, said his daughter, Drayton Jenkins Gerety.
 Dr. Joseph F. Speyer, a molecular geneticist at the University of Connecticut whose early work on mutant genes helped build the foundation for modern molecular genetics and biotechnology, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Willington, Conn. He was 72. The cause was heart failure, his col
 BIRKOFER-John R. The Members of The Board of Trustees of The Catholic Charities of The Archdiocese of New York record with heartfelt sympathy the death of John R. Birkofer. He served as a Member of our Board of Trustees for many years. We treasure greatly the inspiration of his leadership a
 CELNIK-Saul. October 8, 1998. Survivor of the Warsaw Ghetto. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Kalina), father of Olga and Steve Weitzman & Joyce & Paul Levine, grandfather of Nili Richards, Aron Weitzman, Caralyn and Marissa Levine, great-grandfather of Jessica & Matthew Richards. Services Sunda
 De KAY-Ormonde. Writer, historian, poet, editor. Beloved husband of Barbara, father of Thomas, brother of George and James Tertius, stepfather of Lenore and Philip Roosevelt, step-grandfather of three, friend of hundreds, maybe thousands. Wrote books, film scripts, light verse and articles 
 HOLLAND-Leonard. We mourn the death of our colleague and extend our condolences to his family. Wohl Loewe Stettner Fabricant & Deitz P.C. HOLLAND-Leonard. Your friendship, loyalty, honesty will be missed. Peace. Love, SJD HOLLAND-Leonard. We mourn the loss of our friend and 
 HURWITZ-Jerome O.D. Beloved husband of Hortense, devoted father of Sanford and Robert, father-in-law of Rhona, loving grandfather of Jade. Services at 11 A.M. on Sunday at Union Temple of Brooklyn, 17 Eastern Parkway. Memorial contributions to Union Temple of Brooklyn, or the Jewish Braille
 TAUBIN-William. On October 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Jeanette. Loving father of the late Richard, Helene and Jane. Dear husband of the late Doris. Devoted brother of Adele and Annette. Adoring grandfather of Wendy, Lara and Katja. Cherished fatherin-law of Peter Marsman. Bill was a highly
 Richard M. Cyert, a management professor and former president of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, whose half century at the university encompassed its growth from a small regional institute to a national center of higher learning with a global reputation in computer technology and 
 William E. Griffith, a historian and political scientist who was an authority on Communism, the cold war and Central and Eastern Europe, died on Sept. 28 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 78 and lived in Lexington, Mass. The cause was a stroke, said Robert J. Sales
 Clark M. Clifford, the silver-haired Brahmin of the nation's political establishment who advised Presidents across half a century of American history, died yesterday morning at the age of 91 at his home in Bethesda, Md. A Secretary of Defense for one President, friend and confidant 
 Fred Grubel, who as executive director of the Leo Baeck Institute expanded the organization into a respected historical research center for the study of German-speaking Jewry, died Oct. 4 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was three weeks shy of 90 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Gru
 CELNIK-Saul. October 8, 1998. Survivor of the Warsaw Ghetto. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Kalina), father of Olga and Steve Weitzman & Joyce & Paul Levine, grandfather of Nili Richards, Aron Weitzman, Caralyn and Marissa Levine, great-grandfather of Jessica & Matthew Richards. Services Sunda
 CONOVER-Robert F. A distinguished New York artist and teacher died on October 5, 1998 of natural causes. Mr. Conover was born in Trenton, New Jersey in 1920. His career in the arts began in the 1940's, following his service in World War II and continued throughout his life. His work is repr
 De KAY-Ormonde. Writer, historian, poet, editor. Beloved husband of Barbara, father of Thomas, brother of George and James Tertius, stepfather of Lenore and Philip Roosevelt, step-grandfather of three, friend of hundreds, maybe thousands. Wrote books, film scripts, light verse and articles 
 DRISCOLL-Leonard G. On October 7, 1998, age 84, in Washington, D.C., from complications following surgery for cancer. A former resident of Stamford, CT, retired from The New York Times and a resident of Jupiter, FL, he is survived by his son, Brian Driscoll, and two grandsons, Daniel and Da
 FERRER-Reinaldo A., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our longtime friend and former colleague, Reinaldo A. Ferrer, M.D., who served with distinctio
 FUCHS-Bernard A. Age 86, died Saturday in Tallahassee, FL, after an extended illness. Mr. Fuchs had been President of USV Pharmaceutical Corporation. He is survived by sons, Larry Fuchs, Director of the Florida Department of Revenue, and Dennis Fuchs, District Court Judge in Salt Lake City,
 GABLER-Charles Kopel. We mourn the passing of our dad and grandfather, Charles Kopel Gabler, age 83, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Woodside and the Bronx, on October 2, 1998. Linotype operator with the New York Times for 30 years. Husband of the late Mary (Malakoff) Gabler for 54 years a
 HOLLAND-Leonard. Who practiced law for 50 years in NYC, died October 8, 1998, from complications of myasthenia gravis, diabetes and heart disease. Surviving him are his wife Taffy (Ruth Robins), his daughters Claudia and Louisa, their husbands Richard Crane and Stephen Rinehart, his grandch
 HOWELL-Alleyne, age 48, marvelous painter of landscape monotypes. Died September 18 in a tragic accident. We will deeply miss this remarkable man and extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family and friends. We will always remember his work and his kind and generous spirit. Mary Ryan Galle
 HUNDERT-Hyman. Beloved husband of Rose (nee Haspel). Cherished father of Vickie and Bruce Gorlick, and Amy and Michael Hundert. Adored grandfather of Robyn Gorlick and Steven Duberstein, Jennifer Gorlick, Julie and Joshua Hundert. A survivor of the Holocaust who was a dedicated member of th
 HURWITZ-Jerome O.D. With profound sorrow, Union Temple of Brooklyn mourns its long time member and Trustee, Dr. Jerome Hurwitz. For over half a century, he devoted his time, energy and love to our congregation, having served as Chairman of Ushers and Chairman of The School of Religion. He w
 LEE-Jack, 91. Of North Miami Beach went to heaven to meet his wife, Edith & daughter Judy Ann. Jack ''The Great Lee'' ''The Professor'' is survived by his daughter, Nancy Ericksen and his grandson, Lars Ericksen. Jack arranged Lionel Hampton's Band and managed Louis Armstrong & Eddie Haywoo
 PALM-Michael. We mourn the passing of a dear friend. Michael was a man of rare intelligence and generosity. We will always miss him. Tom Healy and Fred Hochberg, Chuck Holmes, Terry Bean and David Mixner       
 ROBBINS-Jacques Andre, ne Seligmann, of Greenwich, CT, on Wednesday, October 7, 1998. Son of the noted late art dealer of Paris and New York, Andre Jean Seligmann and the late Claude Simone Barrou Robbins of New York. He is survived by his loving wife J. Suzanne Geiss Robbins, Greenwich, CT
 TAUBIN-William. On October 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Jeanette. Loving father of the late Richard, Helene and Jane. Dear husband of the late Doris. Devoted brother of Adele and Annette. Adoring grandfather of Wendy, Lara and Katja. Cherished fatherin-law of Peter Marsman. Bill was a highly
 EISENSTEIN-Alvin Gordon. Remembered always by his loving family and friends. 10/12/15-10/26/87.       
 David C. Evans, a pioneer in the field of computer graphics and a noted computer scientist who oversaw the education of some of the computer industry's most influential figures, died on Oct. 3 after a long  battle with Alzheimer's disease, his family said. He was 74 years old. Mr. E
 Godfrey P. Schmidt, a labor lawyer who was retained in the late 1950's by teamsters opposed to the union's newly elected president, James R. Hoffa, died on Sept. 27 at Marian Manor, a nursing home in Boston. He was 95 and had lived for the last eight years with a daughter in Virginia, after
 Joseph Cates, a pioneering television impresario and Broadway producer with an eye for quality, an ear for a good country twang and a weakness for trapeze acts, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after long t
 Joseph P. Kearney, a senior vice president for the PG & E Corporation who built it into one of the largest independent power producing companies in the nation, died Oct. 3 of a heart attack. He was 52 years old and lived in Tiburon, Calif. Mr. Kearney, who had been a track star whil
 ARTASERSE-Hon. Peter P. Age 98. One of New Jersey's oldest living former legislators and retired Superior Court Judge Peter P. Artaserse died this morning after a brief illness. Raised in and a longtime resident of Jersey City, he devoted his life to the law and public service. He represent
 FOGELMAN-Sam (Simcha). In his 86th year. Loving husband of Leah. Brother of Malka and Bella. Father of Eva and Gila. Adoring grandfather of Adam. Father-inlaw of Jerome Chanes. Simcha was a partisan during World War II, a soldier in the Israel Defense Forces, and active in Holocaust remembr
 HOLLAND-Leonard. Goodbye, Grandpa. As you always carried a picture of us, we will always carry memories of you. Love, Annie, Francesca, Sally and Nicky HOLLAND-Leonard. We will miss our friend and father-in-law. We are grateful for his humor, his generosity, and his guidance. Rick a
 MURPHY-Lawrence V. On October 10, 1998. Loving husband of the late Georgette and devoted father of the late Georgette. Beloved son of Anna Murphy. Dear brother of Constance Gridley, Alice Patterson, and Robert Murphy. Also survived by his nieces Maryanne Gridley, Anne Eichinger, and his nep
 PIKE-Seymour J. 9/17/05-10/12/97. A true Renaissance man remembered by everyone who knew him. We will love you always. Annette, your dear family and many, many friends       
 Bruce Williamson, a longtime film critic and contributing editor at Playboy magazine, died on Oct. 6 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 71. The cause was bladder cancer, the magazine said in a statement. Mr. Williamson began writing film criticism for Time magaz
 CATES-Joseph. October 10, 1998. Faithful husband of Joan BrandtCates. Loving father of Phillip, Valerie, Phoebe and Alexandra Cates and stepfather of Wilson Brandt. Adoring grandfather of Owen Joseph and Greta Simone Kline. Devoted brother of Gil Cates and Kit Adler. Friends may call at Fra
 DAVISSON-William Henry Porter, 73, died peacefully at home in Marlboro, Vermont on October 9, 1998. Loving husband to Marion Eyre Davisson, father to Harry, stepfather to Ainslie Eyre Robertson, David Brian Robertson and Julia Anne Robertson-Davisson, grandfather to Catherine and Ariane Dav
 DiGIALLONARDO-Concetto Dino. Beloved son of Clotilde and the late Onorino. Cherished husband of Mariateresa, devoted father of Daniela, Nadia and Christine. Loving brother of Romeo and Rita. Loving uncle of Sandra. Fond brother-in-law of Maria and Ben. A man of wit, charm and intelligence. 
 EDELMAN-Barbara. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of Barbara Edelman, wife of our fellow member, Elliott Edelman, and extend sincere condolences to him and his family. Roy R. Raizen, President       
 FLYNN-Allan Alexander Arthur, of Plandome, Long Island, a retired partner at Davis Polk & Wardwell, passed away Saturday, October 10. He was 67 and died as a result of a stroke suffered the prior Tuesday. Mr. Flynn grew up in Port Washington and graduated from Phillips Andover Academy in 19
 GOLDSTEIN - Sidney. Beloved husband of the late Adele. Devoted father of Mark and Marcia, Eliot and Rochelle. Dear brother of Mac and Saul. Loving grandfather of Jacob, Michael and Alison. Services Wednesday, 10:15 AM at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Ave. GOLDSTEIN-
 KAPLAN-Charles Perry. 82. On October 9th, 1998. Loving husband to Esther, father to Marilyn, Donald (deceased) and Linda, fatherin-law to Peter and John, grandfather to Daniel and Rachel. Proudly served in WWII. He was our hero to the end. Shiva Tuesday evening, October 13th.       
 MARVIN-Anthony (Tony). Veteran radio and television artist and MC, on October 10, in Boynton Beach, Florida, age 86. Beloved husband of Dorothea & cherished father of Lynda. He was known for his many kindnesses to fellow performers & numerous charities. Funeral service Wednesday 2 PM, Beth 
 MORROW-Steve. We deeply regret the passing of our dear friend, founder of our Florida Chapter, former president of the New Cracow Society. Our sincere condolences to his brother, our friend and supporter Zigmund Morrow and his family. Friends of Israel Disabled Veterans Susan Aberbach, Nati
 SANDLER-Joseph, M.D. It is with great sorrow and respect that we extend our condolences to the family and colleagues of Dr. Sandler, psychoanalytic scholar and former president of the International Psychoanalytic Association. He was a great friend, not only to psychoanalysis, but also to us
 VAN KOERT-John O. Age 86,formerly of New York City, died of a massive stroke. on Oct 11, 1998 at his home in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He leaves no immediate survivors.       
 WARFZAWSKI - Aron. Passed away peacefully after a prolonged illness on October 12, 1998. He is survived by his wife, Vivienne, his sister, Sarah, his four sons, and his five grandchildren.       
 WEINSTEIN-Lawrence. Attorney. On October 11, 1998. Cherished husband of Joy. Adored father of Mark, Gail and Jay. Beloved grandfather of Zachary, Brooke, David, Amanda and Scott. He was the kindest and gentlest of men. Services Wednesday 12:15 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amster
 Richard Denning, a character actor who was perhaps best known for his roles in the television series ''Mr. and Mrs. North'' and ''Hawaii Five-O,'' died on Sunday at the Palomar Medical Center in Escondido, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. Born Louis Albert Heind
 Spottswood W. Robinson 3d, a Virginia civil rights lawyer who argued one of the five cases that led to the Supreme Court's 1954 desegregation ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, died on Sunday at his home in Richmond. He was 82. The cause appeared to have been a heart attack, sai
 West Nkosi, a saxophonist, songwriter and producer who helped bring South African music to the outside world, died on Thursday in Johannesburg from injuries he had received in a car crash, said an executive of Gallo Records, where Mr. Nkosi had made hits since the 1960's. He was 58.        
 Kenneth Jernigan, who was a forceful advocate for the blind in gaining access to jobs and to public places during his longtime leadership of the National Federation of the Blind, died on Monday at his home in Baltimore. He was 71. The cause was lung cancer, said Barbara Pierce, dire
 CATES-Joseph. October 10, 1998. Faithful husband of Joan BrandtCates. Loving father of Phillip, Valerie, Phoebe and Alexandra Cates and stepfather of Wilson Brandt. Adoring grandfather of Owen Joseph and Greta Simone Kline. Devoted brother of Gil Cates and Kit Adler. Friends may call at Fra
 DiGIALLONARDO-Concetto Dino. Beloved son of Clotilde and the late Onorino. Cherished husband of Mariateresa, devoted father of Daniela, Nadia and Christine. Loving brother of Romeo and Rita. Loving uncle of Sandra. Fond brother-in-law of Maria and Ben. A man of wit, charm and intelligence. 
 DIVINEY-Thomas J. Of Southbury, CT. Died October 13, 1998. He was the husband of the late Alma Haley Diviney. Survived by three sons Thomas H. Diviney of Chesterfield, MO, Richard J. Diviney of Westport, CT & Joseph A. Diviney of Charlotte, NC; and two daughter Paula M. Burke of Charlotte, 
 DOBBS-Harold. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Harold Dobbs and extend our deepest sympathy to his son Jonathan and daughter Joanne Arfin and their families. Joel M. Simon, President       
 FOGELMAN-Sam. The International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors mourns the death of the beloved father of Eva and Gila. May his legacy of resistance and remembrance and love for his family be an inspiration and blessing.       
 HAGEMAN-Rev. Dr. Lynn L. Forty years ago, Dan Wakefield, in his striking challenge to the conscience of this Town, issued his poignant narrative of crushing poverty and abandonment on just one City Block, 101st Street off First Avenue. It was his 'Island in the Sun.' One figure stood almost
 HELFELD-Irwin. Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs mourn with sorrow the passing, on Erev Sukkot, of our beloved friend, devoted husband, loving son-in-law, faithful congregant and noble benefactor, Irwin Helfeld. Irwin was a proud son of his People who was deeply committed to th
 IRVING-John E.D., 78. Longtime resident of Unionville, PA., on October 10, 1998. In addition to his wife Louise he is survived by five children John Jr. of Princeton, NJ, Henry of Cambridge, MA, Douglas of Unionville, PA, David and Carol of New York City and five grandchildren. Memorial ser
 MORROW-Steve. We are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of dear friend, Founder and Honorary President of the New Cracow Friendship Society. Our heartfelt sympathy to his sons Alex and Stanley, brothers Zigmund and Roman and their families. New Cracow Friendship Society       
 PRINCE-Jack William, 52. Of Granby, CT. Beloved husband of Cathi-Lynne Ames. Died Saturday, Oct. 10, 1998 at his home. Along with his wife, he leaves his mother Margaret (Lloyd) Prince of Brighton, MA, two sisters Eileen Prince Lou of Newton, MA., Francine and Gonzalez of Queens NY. A servi
 SANDLER-Joseph J. International Universities Press mourns the death of our esteemed author, Joseph J. Sandler, and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife, Anne-Marie Sandler and his family. He was a noted psychoanalyst with an extensive international following and a prolific writer in th
 SCHEINBERG-Milton (Mickey). Beloved husband of Sylvia, father of Linda and Tina. Grandfather of five. Great-grandfather of six. Lover of music, legendary manager of Manhattan's Park East Lounge. He'll be missed by all.       
 WARSZAWSKI - Aron. Passed away peacefully after a prolonged illness on October 12, 1998. He is survived by his wife, Vivienne, his sister, Sarah, his four sons, and his five grandchildren.       
 Robert Allen, a Dartmouth-trained actor whose youthful experience playing polo, hunting foxes and riding in the cavalry at a military academy helped him land the role of the original Texas Ranger in 1930's westerns, died on Friday in Oyster Bay, N.Y. He was 92. Mr. Allen appeared in
 Robert Lee Gill, a longtime member of the New York Stock Exchange and a prominent collector of American antiques, died on Sept. 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Mr. Gill was born in South Orange, N.J., in 1911 and attended Choate. He joined Shields & Company in 1932,  and in 
 W. Allen Wallis, an economist who became president of the University of Rochester and held a variety of  Government posts in Washington, died on Monday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 85 and lived in Washington. The cause was a stroke he suffered visiting Rochester,
 Col. Gaston de Bonneval, a French Resistance fighter who spent two decades as Charles de Gaulle's right hand, left hand and half-a-step-behind man, died on Oct. 2 at his home in St.-Mande, France. He was 86. It is not known exactly what prompted de Gaulle, then head of the Provision
 Frank Yankovic, the hard-working singer and accordionist who was crowned the Polka King at a polka contest in Milwaukee in 1948 and was known by that title through five subsequent decades of performing and recording, died yesterday at his home in New Port Richey, Fla. He was 83. Alt
 The Rev. Lynn L. Hageman, a pioneer in drug counseling and the founder of Exodus House, a nationally known drug treatment center in East Harlem, died in his apartment at the center on Oct. 3. He was 67. Mr. Hageman, who suffered an incapacitating stroke 17 years ago, died of a heart
 CATES-Joseph. October 10, 1998. Faithful husband of Joan BrandtCates. Loving father of Phillip, Valerie, Phoebe and Alexandra Cates and stepfather of Wilson Brandt. Adoring grandfather of Owen Joseph and Greta Simone Kline. Devoted brother of Gil Cates and Kit Adler. Friends may call at Fra
 DiGiallonardo-Concetto. The Seavey Organization mourns the great loss of its friend and Associate, Dino. He was a shining, bright light to us all, and leaves us with the fondest of memories. Dino will never be forgotten.       
 GOLDSTEIN-Sidney. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center sadly mourn the untimely passing of Sidney Goldstein, beloved father of our long-standing and esteemed Board Member and President of Metropolitan Jewish Health Systems, Mark L. Goldstein. All of us join in 
 GRAY-David Howard of Wilmington, NC, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died Monday, October 12, 1998. He was born on November 9, 1907 in Brooklyn, N.Y. Surviving are his wife, Florence E. Gray; four children, eleven grandchildren, and ten great grandchildren. Interment will be held at a later date 
 JERNIGAN-Kenneth. We mourn the passsing of Kenneth Jernigan the longtime president of the National Federation of the Blind. Mr. Jernigan worked tirelessly to ensure equal access to employment and public accomodations for people who are blind. He dedicated his life's work to dispelling stere
 KALTMAN-Jack. Of Great Neck, N.Y. On October 13, 1998, age 73. Loving husband to Selma. Father to Hannah, Ilya, Naomi and Alice. Dear brother to Helen. Adoring grandfather to Caleb, Anna, Abraham, Nicholas and Noa. Funeral services will be held today, Temple Beth El, Great Neck, N.Y.       
 LEVITAN-Sidney Philip. Our Flicker. Devoted husband of Arlene, beloved father of Henry and Robin, Mark and Melissa and Marge and Gary. Brother of Mort Levitan, cherished grandfather of six grandchildren. We are grateful for his good years and kindness to all. Services Friday, 10AM, Gutterma
 MURPHY-Frank C., M.D. On October 13, 1998 at Concord, MA formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved brother of the late Kathleen N. Johnson, devoted uncle of John B. Johnson and his wife Andrea of Wellesley, MA. Frank C. Johnson of Vienna, VA and Gerard M. Johnson and his wife Donna Milmore of Melro
 MYERS-Andrew B. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and friend, Andrew B. Myers, and send condolences to his family.       
 RECHTSCHAFFEN-Dr. Rudolf. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved husband of Ronnie; father of Dr. Thomas and Candice; and brother of Rabbi Manfred M. Rechtschaffen, member of the Board of Directors of our Sy Syms School of Bus
 SCHAENEMAN-Lewis G. Jr. Age 67 of 30 Aylesbury Circle, Madison. Died Saturday October 10, 1998 at Middlesex Medical Center in Essex. He was the husband of Priscilla Snider Schaeneman. He was born in Springfield, MA, April 4, 1931. He was the son of the late Lewis G. and Mary Wargo Schaenema
 SNYDER-Joe Stephens. 82. Of Tenafly, N.J. Died Oct. 12, 1998. He is survived by his wife, of 52 years, Evelyn and his three children Judith Hallock, Joe Jr. and George. Four grandchildren and four stepgrandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, October 17, at the Presbyteria
 ZGODNY-William. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its member, Melvin Zgodny. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 Reinaldo Antonio Ferrer, a former medical educator and administrator who, as New York City's Health Commissioner, was one of the highest-ranking Hispanic officials in the Koch administration, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Altamonte Springs, Fla. He was 82. He had suffered 
 Cleveland Amory, social historian, novelist, television critic and animal rights advocate, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. Although he was the author of a number of best-selling books -- a trilogy of social history studies and, more recently, three popular boo
 Dr. Andrew B. Myers, a long-time Fordham University English professor who pursued a lifelong scholarly obsession into virtual oblivion, died on Monday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 78. It's been almost four centuries since the 17th-century Dutch settled what they called Nie
 AMORY-Cleveland. in his 81st year. The officers, directors, staff and volunteers the world over mourn the sudden death of our founder, President, and guiding intellect and spirit. Mr. Amory founded the Fund for Animals in 1967 and has led it every inch of the way while tirelessly continuing
 MUSTO-Anthony. Age 55, of Nashville, TN. He was Vice President of Celebrity Cruises of Miami, died at home of brain cancer. The family will receive friends on Friday, October 16 from 2:00-5:00 and 7:00-9:00 PM at The Broadway Chapel, TN. Funeral mass will be held Saturday, October 17 at 10:
 SAPHIR-Robert. The Executive Board, Board of Governors and Members of The New York State Camp Directors Association mourn the death of their esteemed past President and founding father. Bob served as President NYSCDA for over 20 years and will always be remembered for his efforts and energy
 SPIEGEL-Leo A., M.D.. The Officers and Members of The New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the death of their respected and beloved colleague, Dr. Leo Spiegel. In his nearly five decades as a member, Dr. Spiegel served as President of both the Institute and Society, was a tra
 MOSES-Julian Morton. October 28, 1911-October 16, 1997. Music and opera critic, record historian and consultant, teacher, writer, lecturer. Author: ''COLLECTORS' GUIDE TO AMERICAN RECORDINGS 1895-1925'' and other works and articles. A brilliant intelligence and a witty kind man always anxio
 Tony Marvin, the mellifluous radio and television announcer who proclaimed ''It's Arthur Godfrey time!'' over the airwaves in the 1940's and 50's, died on Saturday at the Bethesda Memorial Hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 86 and lived in Boynton Beach. Growing up in New York C
 Arthur I. Bloomfield, an economist, author and educator, died on Oct. 6 at the Maplewood Park Place Nursing Center in Bethesda, Md., from degenerative neurologic disease, his wife, Dorothy, said. He was 84 and lived in Bethesda. A specialist in international trade and finance, Mr. B
 Adrian Spies, an award-winning television writer who turned out dozens of acclaimed scripts for the live drama series ''Climax'' in the 1950's and wrote one of the first ''Star Trek'' episodes in 1966, died on Oct. 2 at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Los 
 Jacques Abram, a pianist who performed regularly as a recitalist and concerto soloist in New York in the 1940's and 50's, died in Tampa, Fla., on Oct. 5. He was 83. Mr. Abram was known for performances that combined virtuosity and precision with a modernist's interpretive coolness. 
 Maynard Parker, who as editor of Newsweek helped transform the weekly newsmagazine from a digest of foreign and political events into a publication that put greater emphasis on science, religion, social issues and technology, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manha
 AMORY-Cleveland. The staff of Parade Publications, where he was a senior contributing editor to PARADE Magazine for more than 15 years, mourns the sudden death of our beloved friend and colleague. Cleveland's journalistic talents were as legendary as his love for animals. Although he claime
 FUENTES-Jose, age 62. Died on October 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Jane. Loving father of Janelle and Damaris. Predeceased by daughter Adina. He had a life-long commitment to human and community services. Memorial celebration to be scheduled at a later date. Visiting hours are Saturday from
 HALLISEY-James Vincent. October 16, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Nancy Hallisey. Loving father of James V. Hallisey, Jr. and Tamara Hallisey-Hatfield. Cherished grandfather of Sasha A. Hatfield and James V. Hallisey, III. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue and 8
 RESSLER-Dr. Irving. On October 15, 1998. Dearly beloved husband of Ida (Fried). Loving father of Lauren and Joel Rublin, Marcy and John Harris, Mark Ressler and Ilissa Rothschild. Devoted ''Poppy'' of Michael, David, Andrew, Jennifer, Justin, William and Sage. Practiced dentistry in Waterbu
 SPIEGEL-Leo A., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the loss of their longtime colleague and friend. He will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein
 UMLAS-Harry. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Loving dad of Marilyn Wachtel & Robert Umlas. Devoted grandfather of Stefanie and Jared Umlas. Loving fatherin-law of Allan Wachtel and Judy Umlas. Died Thursday morning in his sleep after a long illness. New York services will be held at the
 Peter Paul Artaserse, a retired Jersey City lawyer, Superior Court judge and former state legislator, died Sunday at General Hospital Center in Passaic. He was 98 and lived in Clifton, N.J. He had suffered a brief illness, his family said. Judge Artaserse was the son of Ital
 Jonathan B. Postel, who played a pivotal role in creating and administering the Internet, died of complications after undergoing heart surgery on Friday in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, his brother Thomas Postel said yesterday. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles. Dr. Postel, 
 Norman Moses Clapp, a Government official from Wisconsin who led the Rural Electrification Administration under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson and who directed New York State's investigation of the disastrous power blackout of July 1977, died on Oct. 7 at his home in Clearwater, Fla., where
 AMORY-Cleveland in his 81st year. The officers, directors, staff and volunteers the world over mourn the sudden death of our founder, President, and guiding intellect and spirit. Mr. Amory founded the Fund for Animals in 1967 and has led it every inch of the way while tirelessly continuing 
 CASEY-Denis J. on October 15, 1998 formerly of Bronxville, New York. Loving father of Caroline and Michael. Adored grandfather of Alexandra. Beloved brother of Patrick, Mary Geary & Eleanor O'Byrne. Reposing Romano Family Funeral Home, 24 Depot Square Tuckahoe, N.Y. Mass of Christian Burial
 DIEDRICK-Arthur Hill, M.D. On October 16, 1998 of Rye, N.Y. Devoted husband of the late Ann. Father of Arthur Hill Diedrick, Jr. of Litchfield, CT; Dinah Beverly of Brandywine, WV; Lawrence Gilyard Diedrick of Rocky Mount, N.C.; and William Brice Diedrick of Rye, N.Y. Grandfather of 11 gran
 DRAKE-Joseph William, 76, died October 15, 1998 at his home in Greenwich, CT. Father of Barbara Drake Glass of Old Greenwich, CT., J. William Drake of Riverside, CT., Geoffrey J. Drake of Aptos, CA., and Thomas P. Drake of Wayne, PA. Also survived by five grandchildren. Funeral Mass Monday,
 HALLISEY-James Vincent. October 16, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Nancy Hallisey. Loving father of James V. Hallisey, Jr. and Tamara Hallisey-Hatfield. Cherished grandfather of Sasha A. Hatfield and James V. Hallisey III and Mark O. Hatfield III. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 HARLEY-Robert Livingston, age 93. Beloved brother of Ruth and his twin sister Jeannette Huber. Loving uncle of Frank H. Huber. He attended Columbia University, was a member of Alpha Chi Rho and graduated from New York University. He was associated with The Old Print Shop, in Manhattan, for 
 JOHNSTON-Albert Caldwell Johnston, Ponte Vedra Beach, FL., and until recently, of Darien, CT, died Monday, October 12, 1998. He was born Dec. 7, 1909 in Chattanooga, TN and grew up there and in Fort Thomas, KY. In 1930, he was graduated from Miami Univ., Oxford, Ohio where he joined the Sig
 KEEN-Morris R., M.D., F.A.C.S. Age 98. Died at home in Tempe, AZ, Friday October 15, 1998. Formerly of Huntington, NY where he practiced for 40 years. He was Chief of Urology at Huntington Hospital. He is a former President of the Suffolk County Medical Society and founded and was Editor in
 PARKER-Maynard. Age 58, died of complications of leukemia on October 16. As reporter, editor, friend, father and husband, he was the best of the best. Funeral services will be announced later. In lieu of flowers please make contributions in his memory to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Cent
 PITMAN-Lorraine F., 94. Predeceased by his devoted wife of 68 years, Marian Coggeshall Pitman. Died peacefully October 8, 1998 at Duncaster, Bloomfield, Connecticut. Survived by daughter Sandy Pitman, POB 21564, El Cajon, CA. 92021; & two nephews John Brand Pitman, West St. Paul, MN & Locke
 SCHLOSS-Robert E. On Sept. 16, 1998. Beloved, adoring husband, caring father, stepfather, brother, grandfather. Because of his empathy and generosity of self, he will be missed by so very many.       
 SCHWEIGER-Lynn Earhart. The staff and Board of Directors of the Purchase Community House send their condolences to the family and friends of Mr. Lynn Earhart Schweiger of Hawthorne, NY. Mr. Schweiger passed away on October 15, 1998 after an all too short battle with a malignant brain tumor.
 WILKINS-Pierre Robert. Died on October 6, 1998 in Brooklyn, N.Y. Born Oct. 14, 1932 in St. Louis, Mo. Son of the late John J. & Roma E. (nee Abernathy) Wilkins. Brother of the late John (Jack) Wilkins, Clearwater, FL. Pierre was graduated from Missouri University School of Journalism in 195
 LIPKOWITZ-Irving. October 18, 1898, our Grandpa, on the Centennial of his birth, we remember him with love and celebrate his life. Gerald, Arthur and Elliot Levy       
 Adolf Althoff, a courageous German circus executive who saved several people in the Nazi era by having them work and travel with his circus, died in his sleep on Wednesday in a hospital in Stolberg near Aachen. He was 85 and lived in Stolberg. The cause was probably heart failure, s
 John O. Van Koert, a prominent New York designer who helped promote the fascination with Danish modern furnishings in the 1950's, died last Sunday in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 86. The cause was a stroke, said a friend, Edith Siroto. Mr. Van Koert designed silverware and furnitur
 Jonathan B. Postel, who played a pivotal role in creating and administering the Internet, died of complications after undergoing heart surgery on Friday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif., his brother Thomas Postel said on Saturday. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles. Dr
 Joseph Machlis, an author and opera translator whose 1955 textbook ''The Enjoyment of Music'' is one of the most popular music appreciation books published in English, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Machlis was a familiar figure in the classical music worl
 HALLISEY-James Vincent. October 16, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Nancy Hallisey. Loving father of James V. Hallisey, Jr. and Tamara Hallisey-Hatfield. Cherished grandfather of Sasha A. Hatfield and James V. Hallisey III and Mark O. Hatfield III. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 LEWIS-Harold S. October 18, 1998, in his 82nd year. Beloved husband of Marianne, father of Harold and Dale, Leslie and Debra, grandfather of Katherine and Ethan. A distinguished engineer, he was a partner in the New York firm of Jaros, Baum & Bolles. His love of family, home and nature, and
 PARKER-Maynard. Age 58, died of complications of leukemia on October 16. As reporter, editor, friend, father and husband, he was the best of the best. A memorial service will be held at 3 PM, October 22, at the Church of the Heavenly Rest at Fifth Avenue and 90th Street. In lieu of flowers 
 RAPOPORT-David. Loving husband of Rose. Devoted father of Dr. Samuel Rapoport and Nancy Goldstein, and father-in-law of Sandra Rapoport and Dr. Steven Goldstein. Doting grandfather of Benjamin, Matthew, Ezra, Rebecca, Sarah and Jordana. Steadfast brother of Morris Rapport and Rose Gelber, b
 ROSENTHAL-Mortimer S. A finer gentleman and attorney we have never known. We will miss your wise counsel dearly. Heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Frances, children, Richard, John and Susan, and grandchildren. Herb Nass, family and associates ROSENTHAL-Mortimer/d. The offic
 SCHWEIGER-Lynn Earhart. The staff and Board of Directors of the Purchase Community House send their condolences to the family and friends of Mr. Lynn Earhart Schweiger of Hawthorne, NY. Mr. Schweiger passed away on October 15, 1998 after an all too short battle with a malignant brain tumor.
 STAMLER-Judge Joseph H. At his home in Stony Creek, CT. Formerly of Summit, NJ. Leaves his wife Lillian Spitzer Stamler, son Joseph H. Stamler, Jr., and wife Ann of Fairfield, CT, and son S. Paul Stamler and wife Amy of Stony Creek, CT, grandchildren Abigail Hopkins Stamler, S. Reed Stamler
 Dr. Samuel J. Messick, a leader in educational testing who argued for restraint in the use of student test scores, died on Oct. 6 at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center in Philadelphia. He was 67 and lived in Pennington, N.J. The cause was congestive heart failure, family 
 C. David Marsden, a British neurologist who was one of the world's leading authorities on movement disorders like Parkinson's disease, died on Sept. 29 at his American residence in Columbia, Md. A resident of Ash, in Kent, England, he was 60 and had just begun a one-year sabbatical, his fir
 John E. Fagg, a retired history professor at New York University and an author of books on Latin American and Spanish history, died on Oct. 3 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 81. Dr. Fagg was born in San Saba, Tex., and received his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas i
 Neil T. Shayne, a founder and senior partner of the law firm of Shayne, Dachs, Stanisci, Corker & Sauer in Mineola, N.Y., died Sept. 24 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in Queens. He was 66 years old. Mr. Shayne, who lived in North Shore Towers in Floral Park, N.Y., died of pneu
 BELL-O. Nile. On Monday, October 19th, 1998. O. Nile Bell of Potomac, Maryland, beloved husband of Joanne Mackey Bell, devoted father of Anne Ashley Bell, brother of Margaret Bell Smith. He is also survived by several brothersin-law, sisters-in-law & numerous nieces and nephews. Friends may
 BLOCK-Manuel L. The Officers, Board of Trustees and members of Temple Sinai of Bergen County, Tenafly, N.J. deeply mourns the passing of Manuel L. Block beloved father of our Rabbi, Bruce S. Block. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lillian and daughter-in-law Terrie and his gr
 FLANAGAN-Gene J. Dean of Continuing Education and Professor of Behavioral Sciences at Kingsboro Community College, The City University of New York. The administration, faculty, staff and students of Kingsboro Community College mourn the passing of a most valued colleague and friend on Frida
 HALLISEY-James V. The Board of Trustees of Marymount School and the entire School community mourn the death of our dear friend and former Trustee. A man of integrity, he shared his legal expertise, strong leadership and wisdom with the School. He will be fondly remembered for his love of Ma
 LEWIS-Donald. The Board Of Directors of the Usdan Center For The Arts expresses its deep sympathy to the family of our Executive Director, Dale Lewis on the passing of his father, Donald. Dale's devotion to his father is equaled by his dedication to the Usdan Center for which we are extreme
 LOWENTHAL-Irwin. The Staff Society of Long Island Jewish Medical Center deeply mourns the passing of a dedicated colleague Dr. Irwin Lowenthal. His thirty years of devoted service will not be forgotten. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Linda and family. Staff Society of LIJ     
 MACHLIS-Joseph. The entire Queens College community mourns the death of our beloved professor of the joys of music, Joseph Machlis, who gave thousands a lifelong appreciation of the art of beautiful listening during his thirtyfive years as a teacher at the College. His generous heart and br
 PARKER-Maynard. Age 58, died of complications of leukemia on October 16. As reporter, editor, friend, father and husband, he was the best of the best. A memorial service will be held at 3 PM, October 22, at the Church of the Heavenly Rest at Fifth Avenue and 90th Street. In lieu of flowers 
 SELIGA-Mark. The Chairman, Board of Trustees, Director, and Staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow the passing of our good friend and colleague, Mark Seliga and extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Josefina and their son Mark. Controller of the BMA since 1990, Mark 
 SHERMAN-Bernard. October 18, 1998. Beloved husband of Marlene. Loving father of David, Esther, Shalom, Tova, and Eli. Brother of Joe and Phil. He will be greatly missed by family, friends, and community. SHERMAN-Bernard. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its memb
 STAMLER-Judge Joseph H. At his home in Stony Creek, Conn. Formerly of Summit, NJ. Leaves his wife Lillian Spitzer Stamler, son Joseph H. Stamler, Jr., and wife Ann of Fairfield, CT, and son S. Paul Stamler and wife Amy of Stony Creek, CT, grandchildren Abigail Hopkins Stamler, S. Reed Staml
 WALKER-Herman, 89. Formerly of Waldwick, NJ, September 24, 1998. Preceded in death by his wife Virginia Decker Walker, survived by son, Roger W. Walker, daughter Beverly Walker Gelbert, and grandchildren Michael & Jennifer Walker, Sara & Katherine Gelbert. Walker graduated from Columbia Uni
 KLEIN-Stanley. We deeply mourn the tragic passing of a dear friend and counselor. We shall always cherish the memory of our long and rewarding relationship with him. May his dear wife and children be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Max Wasser, Michael Lipstein, Charles S
 Alan S. Donnahoe, a former president and chief executive of Media General, died Oct. 10 at his home in Richmond. He was 82. The cause of death was heart disease, said his wife, Elsie Pitts Donnahoe. Mr. Donnahoe was the president and associate publisher of Richmond Newspaper
 Arnold M. Auerbach, a comedy writer who wrote for Fred Allen, Milton Berle and Al Jolson and who contributed sketches to the successful Broadway revues ''Call Me Mister'' and ''Inside U.S.A.,'' died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 86. Mr. Auerbach got his first taste of show 
 Edmond A. Levy, an Academy Award-winning documentarian, died on Oct. 10 at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his stepson William H. Judson said. Mr. Levy wrote, produced and directed more than 120 documentary films. He won 
 Dr. Edward Watson Hook Jr., a national authority on infectious diseases like salmonella and influenza, died on Oct. 5 at a hotel in Gettysburg, Pa., where he had gone for a meeting. He was 74 and lived in Charlottesville, Va. The cause was a coronary thrombosis, according to the Uni
 Collins Jacques Seitz, a senior Federal appeals court judge in Delaware who as a young judge helped refute the separate-but-equal doctrine in public education, died on Friday at the Foulk Manor North retirement home in Wilmington. A  lifetime resident of Wilmington, he was 84. The c
 AUERBACH-Arnold M. On October 19, 1998 at New York Hospital of leukemia. He is survived by his wife Justine, daughter Nina, and son Andrew. He was a prolific satirist, wrote for Broadway theater, several novels, many satiric articles for newspapers, including The New York Times, magazines a
 BLOOM-Robert. Cherished husband, father, grandfather, uncle and friend died as he lived on October 19 in dignity and surrounded by loved ones. His mark will last forever. The Family       
 BYRNE-William J. Jr., 68, formerly of Pelham, deceased, October 18, 1998, Pinehurst, N.C. Mr. Byrne is survived by his wife Mary F., sons William J. III, Ellicott City, MD., Thomas F., Telluride, CO., James M., Laurel, MD, Matthew F., Athens, GA and Peter G., N.Y., N.Y. Mr. Byrne graduated 
 FLANAGAN-Gene J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Gene J. Flanagan, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 GREATHOUSE-Timothy D. Age 48, at his home in Manhattan on October 18, 1998 of AIDS related complications. An artist, gallery owner and graphic designer. He owned and ran art galleries (Oggi Domani and Greathouse) in the East Village during the 1980s. More recently, he worked as a commercial
 HERZ-John W., a senior partner in the New York City law firm of Wolf, Haldenstein, Adler, Freeman & Herz, died October 19. He was 83 years old. Mr. Herz, who resided in Larchmont, New York, died after a prolonged illness. He was born in New York City and received both his B.A. and his law d
 LEE-Hon. H. Jordan. Of Long Beach, New York. Died Monday, October 19. Devoted husband of the late Marion. Loving father of Sherry, Stephen, and Barry. A thoughtful, practical, wise and gentle soul, he will be missed by those he leaves behind. A memorial service will be held at Guttermans, 1
 LEVENBERG-Irving. Of Huntington, New York, suddenly on Friday, October 16th, 1998 while on holiday in Turkey. Adored husband of Thelma & the late Evelyn. Beloved father of Seth (Ellen), Merrit (Betty) & the late Warren. Much loved by his brothers Fred, George and Phil, his step children Jon
 LOWENTHAL-Irwin S., M.D. We note with sorrow the death of our friend and colleague on October 17, 1998. A devoted physician, he served his patients and his community at the highest level as a dedicated professional for almost three decades. We send our sincere condolences to his family. Law
 MACHLIS-Joseph. The Juilliard School notes with sadness the death of Jospeh Machlis, distinguished member of the faculty since 1977. An innovative scholar, a remarkable teacher and a trusted colleague, Joseph Machlis had an enormously positive impact on the entire music profession. His enga
 OTTOLENGHI-Paolo, M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague. Dr. Ottolenghi was a dedicated physician who served Cabrini Medical Center for thirty years. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences t
 PARKER-Maynard. Age 58, died of complications of leukemia on October 16. As reporter, editor, friend, father and husband, he was the best of the best. A memorial service will be held at 3 P.M., October 22, at the Church of the Heavenly Rest at Fifth Avenue and 90th Street. In lieu of flower
 RIEGER-Ernest A. Jr. On October 19, 1998. Beloved and loving husband of Susan Squier Rieger. Cherished father of Carolyn, Sally, Laurie and Chip, and grandfather of Max and Beau, Hilary and Sarah, Danielle, Eric and Peter Bruce, and Cicely. He is survived by sisters, Ruth Munson, Sally Daly
 ROCHLIN-Paul. On Oct. 19, 1998, devoted husband to Marjorie, superb father to Jonathan, loving brother and uncle to Miriam and Michael. He will be dearly missed. Services Thursday, Oct. 22, 11:00 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. & Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory to Gilda's Club
 SUSLOW-Robert J. Age 65. On October 18, 1998. His kind heart, generous spirit and intelligent wit will be forever missed by his loving family: Howard, Judy, Ken, Steve, Susan, Brian, and his caring friends and relatives. Funeral arrangements are private. Contributions may be made in his hon
 WALLIS-W. Allen. Friends and colleagues of W. Allen Wallis, former President of the University of Rochester, Dean of the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, U.S. Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, and Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, are invi
 Karl E. Prindle, an industrial chemist who helped transform cellophane into a mass-market wrapping, then devised a way for the masses to unwrap it without breaking their fingernails, died on Oct. 13 at a hospital in Willoughby, Ohio. He was 95 and was recalled as an inventor of both
 BECKER-Samuel. On October 21, 1998. Of New York City, N.Y. In his 89th year. Retired and admired Manhattan dentist. Beloved husband of late Lillian. Their marriage was most beautiful and magical. Loving father of Charles (Sheryl) and Dr. Richard (Terry). Admiring grandfather of Lance, Saman
 HERZ-John W., a senior partner in the New York City law firm of Wolf, Haldenstein, Adler, Freeman & Herz, died October 19. He was 83 years old. Mr. Herz, who resided in Larchmont, New York, died after a prolonged illness. He was born in New York City and received both his B.A. and his law d
 JESELSOHN-Lina, Dr. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Aryeh Jeselsohn on the loss of his mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 LAPKIN-Nathaniel. Died October 20, 1998. Age 91. Loving husband of Frances, beloved father of Mitchell and adored grandfather of Jason and Jordan Lapkin. He was humane, a philanthropist and a giant among men. May his soul rest in blessed peace forever. Services private.       
 MATTINGLY-Charles, Jr. In Wilmington, DE on October 17, 1998. Age 74. Beloved father and fatherin-law of Maris, Sandy & Louise, Joe, Jim & Amy, and Sharon. He is also survived by 8 grandchildren. A memorial mass will be held Thursday, October 29, 11:00 AM at St. Elizabeth Ann Seton Church, 
 MEYERSON-David Nathan. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students, of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion express our heartfelt condolences to our beloved Governor, Morton H. Meyerson and Marlene Meyerson, devoted parents
 MILBERG-Max, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. Max Milberg. Dr. Milberg was associated with the Department of Medicine for over 35 years. He also served as Director of Infectious Disease for many years. He will be sorely missed by all h
 ROCHLIN-Paul. On Oct. 19, 1998, devoted husband to Marjorie, superb father to Jonathan, loving brother and uncle to Miriam and Michael. He will be dearly missed. Services Thursday, Oct. 22, 11:00 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. & Amsterdam Ave. The Rochlins will receive at home Thursday 
 SANDERSON-Leo W. (Sandy) Died at age 82, October 14, 1998 at Turner Geriatric Center, Galveston, TX. He is survived by daughter Kate Burdon, son Lee Sanderson, sisters Joan Seetoo and Pearl Bauer and extended families.       
 SERELS-Sondra (nee Shavelson). On Tuesday, October 20, 1998 of Hackensack N.J. formerly of Englewood NJ. Beloved wife of the late Eugene Serels. Loving mother of Roseanne Serels and Dr. Scott Serels and his wife Rose. Cherished grandmother of Gillian Serels. Services 11:30AM Friday at Louis
 SHILOWITZ-Stephen, architect, died on October 19 in New York City. He was 69 years old. He is survived by his wife, Carole Clarke, of Malvern, Pa, his daughter Yumi Shilowitz Ross of Chicago, Ill., his son George Shilowitz of New York City and his treasured grandchildren Ian and Camryn Ross
 STAHL-Earl (Buster). Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the passing of Earl Stahl, beloved husband of Shirley and devoted father of Gina and Rabbi Robert Levine, Trudi and Neal Epstein, Eric and Elizabeth Stahl and Marcia and Joseph Rosen. May his memory be a blessing. The funeral will be he
 SUSLOW-Robert J. The Directors, Trustees and staff of National Jewish Medical & Research Center in Denver express their sincerest condolences to the Suslow family and the many friends of Robert J. Suslow. Mr. Suslow also was a long standing member of The National Jewish Council of National 
 WALLACH-Rolf. 89, of Sherman, CT. Loyal husband of Violet, devoted brother of Lotte Hanf, Annelise Rosenberg, and Fred Wallace, affectionate uncle of six nieces and nephews, benign and generous friend of Pixie, Ursula, Lillian, Tony and scores of others. His life was rich in unassuming hero
 WHITSTOCK-Robert H. 68, of Cortland, NY. Retired VP of The Seeing Eye, Inc. in Morristown, NJ. Died Friday, October 16, 1998 in Palisades, NY. He is survived by his wife, Mary Jane Whitstock (nee Noonan), three daughters Holly (David) Seeger, Ivy (Morrison) Bryan and Laurel (Stephan) Carfar
 YAVNER-Viola Levenson. On Wednesday October 21, 1998, of Potomac, MD, formerly of New York City. Beloved wife of the late Louis E. Yavner. Devoted mother of Ruth Himes of Falls Church, VA; Judith Yavner of Arlington, VA and Daniel Yavner and his wife Mary of Minnetonka, MN. Loving sister of
 ZIRIN-Morris G. The New York Law School community pays tribute to Morris G. Zirin, lawyer and writer, graduate of the class of 1933, who died last May at the age of 94. To his son, James D. Zirin, member of the Board of Trustees at NYLS and to the rest of his family and friends, the School 
 Robert J. Suslow, a retail executive who presided over Saks Fifth Avenue, Ohrbach's, Famous-Barr and Batus Retail during the 1970's and 1980's, died Sunday at his apartment in New York. He was 65. The cause of death was arteriosclerosis, according to his nephew, Steven Suslow.      
 The Rev. Edward H. Flannery, a Roman Catholic priest and outspoken opponent of anti-Semitism, died on Monday at Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 86 and lived in Georgiaville, near Providence. Father Flannery, a longtime Catholic journalist, won acclaim and a National Catho
 Albert Johnson, a film critic and historian who, as program director of the San Francisco International Film Festival from 1965 to 1972, was celebrated for his pioneering tributes to Hollywood legends, died on Oct. 17 in Chicago. He was 73 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. The cause was
 Francis W. Sargent, the moderate Republican, defender of the environment and solver of fiscal crises who served as Governor of Massachusetts from 1969 to 1975, died today at his home in Dover, Mass. He was 83. Mr. Sargent moved up from lieutenant governor when Gov. John Volpe was ma
 Joseph Howard Stamler, a former Newark lawyer whose decisions had a wide impact in the seven years he was a New Jersey Superior Court judge, died on Friday at his home in Stony Creek, Conn. He was 86 and a former resident of Summit, N.J. Judge Stamler suffered a long illness, his fa
 Ormonde de Kay, a writer, poet and magazine editor, died on Oct. 2 at Beth Israel Hospital. Mr. de Kay, who lived in Manhattan, was 74. He died of lung cancer, his brother George said. Mr. de Kay was a versatile writer who took delight in wordplay and language. He wrote doze
 AUERBACH-Arnold M. On October 19, 1998 at New York Hospital of leukemia. He is survived by his wife Justine, daughter Nina, and son Andrew. He was a prolific satirist, wrote for Broadway theater, several novels, many satiric articles for newspapers, including The New York Times, magazines a
 BODEK - Henry. Emunah of America mourns the loss of Henry Bodek, beloved life-long friend and supporter of our organization in the United States and Israel. Condolences to his sisters Esther Flashberg and Peggy Kaufman and the entire family who adored ''Uncle Henry.'' May the family be comf
 DALY-John F., M.D. The faculty & staff of NYU School of Medicine mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. John F. Daly. A native of New Jersey, Dr. Daly received his A.B. Degree from Fordham University in 1932 and his M.D. Degree in 1937 from Long Island College of Medicine.
 GUTTENPLAN-Milton. 83. Beloved husband of Rosalie. Devoted father of Kenneth and Barbara, Carol Wolf and the late Howard. Cherished brother of Harold. Adored grandfather of Joshua and Adam Wolf, Elena, Marra and Ethan. A Great Neck resident for 48 years, always involved in charitable causes
 HAY-William. 71. A resident of Kennebunkport, ME., died in Gorham, ME. He was a lawyer, former President of Trizec Corp and Executive Vice President of Olympia & York Properties. Survived by his wife Elizabeth, daughter Sheila & son David & their families. Memorial donation to Alzheimer's D
 HERZ-John W. The Strang Cancer Prevention Center notes with profound sorrow the passing of its long time trustee, John W. Herz, Esq. John's wisdom and invaluable counsel have left an enduring mark at Strang. He will be remembered with affection and great respect. Julian H. Robertson, Jr., C
 LAPKIN-Nathaniel. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai-NYU Medical Center and Health System deeply mourn the passing of Nathaniel Lapkin, a generous long-time supporter and Sponsor of Mount Sinai School of Medicine, as well as a benefactor of
 McINTYRE-James Bigelow. Sons of the Revolution in the state of New York notes with great sadness the death of James B. McIntyre, a life member and past president of this society. Mr. McIntyre served with devotion on our Board of Managers and held many other vital committee positions. Our he
 SICULAR-Arthur. On October 22, 1998 after a vigorous life and brief illness. Beloved husband of Lilian. Loving father of David, Michael, Eve and Steven. Father-in-law of Lili. Dear grandfather of Jonathan, Sarah and Rebecca. Service Friday, 12 noon, at Congregation Emanu-el of Westchester, 
 SUSLOW-Robert J. Age 65. On October 18, 1998. His kind heart, generous spirit and intelligent wit will be forever missed by his loving family: Howard, Judy, Ken, Steve, Susan, Brian; and his caring friends and relatives. Contributions may be made in his honor to the charity of your choice. 
 YAVNER-Viola Levenson. On Wednesday October 21, 1998, of Potomac, MD, formerly of New York City. Beloved wife of the late Louis E. Yavner. Devoted mother of Ruth Himes of Falls Church, VA; Judith Yavner of Arlington, VA and Daniel Yavner and his wife Mary of Minnetonka, MN. Loving sister of
 ELAHI-Cyrus. One with love in his heart never dies.       
 H. Richard Nesson, the former president of Brigham and Women's Hospital, one of the nation's leading teaching hospitals, and a pioneer in hospital management in the new era of health maintenance organizations, died Oct. 18 in Boston. He was 66. Mr. Nesson suffered a heart attack whi
 Alfred W. Van Sinderen, who served as the top executive of the Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation for 17 years, died Oct. 12 at the Harborside Healthcare-Willows, a nursing home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 74 years old. Mr. Van Sinderen's wife, Suzanne, said he had 
 Eric Ambler, whose name is synonymous with novels of suspense, action, adventure and intrigue in foreign lands and whose books became models for generations of other writers, died on Thursday at his home in London. He was 89. Mr. Ambler, a worldly Englishman, is generally credited w
 James P. McFadden, an editor, publisher and prominent Roman Catholic layman, died on Oct. 17 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was an esophageal hemorrhage, and he also had cancer, said William F. Buckley Jr., editor at large of National Review, w
 BLUM-Samuel. On October 22, 1998. Beloved husband of Cathy. Father of Joshua, Kate and Sarah. Grandfather of Tessa. Loving friend to many. Friends may visit the residence Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday from 1:30 PM on. Memorial on Friday, October 30 at 6:30 PM, 14 E. 10 St. Contributions in 
 COTTER-William J. Of Mansfield, CT. Formerly of New York City. Died Ocotber 23, 1998, after a short illness. Dearest and beloved friend of Elaine Landry. He was associated for many years with TWA in sales and marketing; also with Hilton Hotels. He was a loyal member of the TWA Seniors. Fune
 DALY-John F., M.D. The faculty & staff of NYU School of Medicine mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. John F. Daly. A native of New Jersey, Dr. Daly received his A.B. Degree from Fordham University in 1932 and his M.D. Degree in 1937 from Long Island College of Medicine.
 DIBBLE-Peter Davis, 71 years, of Manhattan, died on October 8 after a long illness. He was an Editor and Writer for Women's Wear Daily for over 30 years. Although, he leaves no immediate family, he is deeply mourned by his extended family of friends. A memorial service will be held on Novem
 GORDON-SCHAINMAN-Pearl C. Beloved wife of Leonard Gordon and the late Mory Schainman. Loving mother of Lynn Russell. Dear sister of Martin Sandberg and his wife, Grace, and the late Norma Schnitzer. Services Boulevard Riverside, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, Sunday, 11:30 AM.       
 LAPKIN-Nathaniel. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai-NYU Medical Center and Health System deeply mourn the passing of Nathaniel Lapkin, a generous long-time supporter and Sponsor of Mount Sinai School of Medicine, as well as a benefactor of
 LEFCOURT-Albert Dr., retired optometrist, died on October 21, 1998, in Hallandale, FL. He was 87 years young and is survived by his devoted wife of 40 years, Rachael, of Hallandale, his two sons, Robert and Gerald of NYC, his brother Harold, of Levittown, PA, his cherished nephew Ian Erlich
 LYON-Tessie. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations expresses condolences to our distinguished colleague Avram Lyon on the loss of his beloved mother. We pray that the family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mel Salberg, Chairman Malco
 THE playwright's fading family photographs hang virtually unnoticed on the walls of the set. In one frame, a black World War II soldier grins beneath a rakishly tilted cap. In another, a shy young woman glimmers in a gown that sweeps her toes. They are his parents, long buried, their era lo
 Former Gov. Burton Melvin Cross of Maine, a Republican who advocated states' rights, fiscal conservatism and local government responsibility, died on Thursday at his home in Augusta. He was 95. Mr. Cross, a former city and state legislator, won election as governor in a four-man rac
 Charles Clinton Killingsworth, a labor-management economist, mediator and University Professor emeritus at Michigan State University, died Oct. 16 at Sparrow Hospital in Lansing. He was 81 and lived in nearby Okemos, Mich. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Start
 Charlton Ogburn, a former State Department official and the author of novels and books about World War II and Shakespeare, died on Monday at his home in Beaufort, S.C. He was 87. Mr. Ogburn's best-known book was ''The Mysterious William Shakespeare: The Myth and the Reality'' (1984)
 Fred W. O'Green, who led Litton Industries in the 1970's and 1980's, first as president and then as chairman, died on Oct. 2 as a result of complications from Alzheimer's Disease at the St. John of God retirement and care center in Los Angeles. He was 77 years old and had lived in Los Angel
 BENJAMIN-Albert. Age 89. Beloved husband of Edythe and the late Barbara. Devoted father of Phyllis and Janet. Cherished grandfather of Ben and Rachel. Dear brother of George, Sylvia Eisen, Betty Yesner and the late Harvey, and also survived by his extended family of Robert and Steve Baum. P
 CHIN-Frank SK. Left us on October 21, 1998 after a lifelong friendship. Condolences to his family. Lee and John Hauser       
 GORDON-SCHAINMAN-Pearl C. Beloved wife of Leonard Gordon and the late Mory Schainman. Loving mother of Lynn Russell. Dear sister of Martin Sandberg and his wife, Grace, and the late Norma Schnitzer. Services Boulevard Riverside, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, Sunday, 11:30 AM.       
 HAMADA-Morris. We extend heartfelt condolences to Carl Hamada on the loss of his beloved brother. As Silver Founders of the Medical Center and supporters of the Jesselson Heart Center, Carl and Hilda have helped to fulfill the hospital's mission to heal the sick and ease the pain of the aff
 KOEHL-Seymour. On Friday, October 23. A resident of Kings Point, NY. Beloved husband of Ruth. Dear father and adored grandfather. Services today, 12 noon at Sinai Chapels, 162-05 Horace Harding Expwy., Fresh Meadows, NY. KOEHL-Seymour. Our wonderful friend has left us. With deep sor
 LEFCOURT-Albert Dr., retired optometrist, died on October 21, 1998, in Hallandale, FL. He was 87 years young and is survived by his devoted wife of 40 years, Rachael, of Hallandale, his two sons, Robert and Gerald of N.Y.C., his brother Harold, of Levittown, PA, his cherished nephew Ian Erl
 MAHONEY-James W. On October 22, 1998. Retired Banker and W.W. II Veteran. Beloved uncle of Robert F. Stewart, Jr. of Wilmington, DE, John E. Stewart of San Francisco, CA., James W. Stewart of Hopkinton, MA., Mary Jo Conn of Scottsdale, AZ., Anne Louise Keehan of Perth, Australia, John S. Ma
 McHUGH-Thomas. Native of Stranamorth Barran, County Cavan, Ireland. On October 11, 1998, in his 94th year. Beloved husband of Catherine (nee McCarthy). Loving father of Margaret (Rich), Thomas (Deb), Kevin (Geri), Rosemary (Steven). Adored grandfather of Brian, Cathy, Roe, Sean, Liz, Tess, 
 MILEA-Carl. The Board of Regents, Administration and staff of Long Island College Hospital (LICH) mourn the passing of Carl Milea, our benefactor and dear friend, and beloved husband of Regent Faye Milea. We are deeply grateful to Carl and his family for their generous support over the year
 NEWHOUSE - Russell Conwell. Age 91 of Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ, died at home Thursday. A native of Clyde, OH, Mr. Newhouse was awarded the Bachelor of Electrical Engineering and Master of Science in Electrical Engineering degrees from Ohio State University. Mr. Newhouse made notable con
 SANDERS-Samuel. 89. Of Hallandale, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY, passed away Friday, 10/23/98. An attorney at law in New York for many years and Army veteran of WW II. Beloved husband of Adele. Devoted father of Andra Sanders and Linda Murray (Stephen). Cherished grandfather of Gordon and C
 SHERMAN-George S. Trumbull, CT., on October 22, 1998 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. Husband of Davette Cohen Sherman. Father of Stacey Sherman, Keith and Karen Sherman, Brett & Kim Sherman. Brother of Eileen Trager, and grandfather of Austin Louis Sherman. He fought a courageous batt
 ZIMMERMAN-Leonard, on October 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Florence, cherished father of Arnold and Ann and Joan and Steve. Adored grandfather of Toby, Jesse and Isabel and dearest brother and uncle of Irma and Bennett and Armin. He will be sorrowfully missed. Memorial service will be held 
 KATES-Arnold D. Oct. 25, 1898Sept. 17, 1986. On his 100th birthday, a man ahead of his time. Bobbi, Marc, Alex, Nat       
 SERIFF-Nathan S., M.D. A tribute in honor of Nathan S. Seriff, M.D. will be held Thurs, Oct 29 at 5pm at Lenox Hill Hospital, the Einhorn Auditorium, 131 E. 76 St., New York City. He is much loved and greatly missed.       
 Glenn William Poorman, the president of Esso International from 1966 until he retired in 1970, died Wednesday at his home in Crowley, La. He was 90 years old. Mr. Poorman, who was born in Palmyra, Pa., fell ill with scarlet fever when he was 12 years old, which affected his eyesight
 James V. Hallisey, a lawyer specializing in health care and Surrogate's Court matters, died on Oct. 16 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Tamara Hallisey-Hatfield. Mr. Hallisey, a Manhattan lawyer for the last
 John G. Gude, an agent who represented many prominent figures in broadcasting and publishing, died on Oct. 11 at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts after a fall at Long Hill Nursing Home in Edgartown, Mass. He was 96. Over the years, Mr. Gude's clients  included Edward R. M
 Noel Carroll, a hulking half-miler who set Irish, European and world records and helped establish Villanova as a showcase for a generation of Irish track stars, died in Dublin on Friday as he had so conspicuously lived -- on his feet, apparently after suffering a heart attack during his reg
 ATWELL-Richard B. The Zoning Advisory Council extends its sympathy to the family of Richard Atwell. He served the city and the zoning and planning industry with distinction. Sheldon Lobel, President       
 AVSTREIH-David. We wish to express our profound sadness at the death of our dear friend, David Avstreih. David was an extraordinary man whose life focused not on what he could do for himself, but on what he could do for others. When we met he was our legal advisor, but he and Esther quickly
 DEAN-Dr. Martin L. Green Brook Country Club deeply mourns the passing of member Dr. Martin L. Dean, and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Jane, and to the entire family.       
 FONDILER-Samuel I. On October 24, 1998, in Boynton Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Rena. Adored father of Susan (Fred), Ellen, and the late Arthur. Cherished grandpa of Jon, Lexy, Mollie, Ben, Alison and Willie. Dear brother to Sophie and Lester (Laraine). Sam was the Senior Vice Preside
 GRAHAM-John C. ''Jack.'' October 23, 1998. Of Bedford, NY. Husband of the late Mary Luke Graham and Elizabeth Bracher Vincent Graham. Father of John C. Graham, Jr., Campbell Luke Graham and Margot Graham Lord. Brother of Virginia Graham Zuill. Also survived by three grandchildren, four step
 GUGLIELMELLI-Silvio M., M.D., FACP, FACCP. Internist and cardiologist of Brooklyn, on October 24, 1998. Beloved husband of Elaine (Lawson). Dear father of Sylvia MacFarlane, Claire Krotiuk and Carla Goggin. Also survived by six grandchildren, three sisters, Adeline Bosco, Elvira and Hilda G
 KOEHL-Seymour. It is with deep regret that we record the passing of our esteemed member Seymour Koehl. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Ruth and the entire family. Fresh Meadow Country Club Steven Howard, President Allen Kaplan, Secretary       
 MAHONEY-James W. On October 22, 1998. Retired Banker and W.W. II Veteran. Beloved uncle of Robert F. Stewart, Jr. of Wilmington, DE, John E. Stewart of San Francisco, CA., James W. Stewart of Hopkinton, MA., Mary Jo Conn of Scottsdale, AZ., Anne Louise Keehan of Perth, Australia, John S. Ma
 RUBIN-Norman. A wonderful husband of Sylvia. Loving father and grandfather. A special friend to all who knew him. Services Tuesday, 12:30 PM, at ''Boulevard-Riverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI.       
 SANDERS-Samuel. 89. Of Hallandale, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY, passed away Friday, 10/23/98. An attorney at law in New York for many years and Army veteran of WW II. Beloved husband of Adele. Devoted father of Andra Sanders and Linda Murray (Stephen). Cherished grandfather of Gordon and C
 TENENBAUM-Jonas. Age 91. Of Riverdale, NY. On October 24, 1998. Patriarch of our family. Beloved husband of the late Sydell. Cherished father of Anita and Robert Sessler and Stephen and Rosalie Tenenbaum. Adored Grandpa of Scott and Andrea Sessler, Lee and Madeline Sessler, Andrew and Rosea
 Randolph Carter, an author who wrote several plays produced on  Broadway, died on Oct. 12 at St. Albans Naval Hospital in Queens. He was 90. Mr. Carter's first Broadway production was ''Arms of Venus'' (1937), based on Petronius's ''Satyricon.'' Variety called it ''a tempest in a Ro
 Walter Kendrick, a professor of English at Fordham University who was an authority on Victorian literature, an author and a literary critic, died early yesterday in Beth Israel Hospice in Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in the West Village. The cause was pancreatic cancer,  said his 
 John Francis Daly, an ear, nose and throat specialist who contributed to the development of modern head and neck surgery while associated with New York University Medical School and many other regional institutions, died last Wednesday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. A former residen
 John Didcott, a South African judge known for his firm support of  human rights during 23 years on the bench in and after the apartheid era,  died last Tuesday at his home in Durban, South Africa. He was 67. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Pam. ''Farewell, Grand Maste
 CAVALUZZI-John Anthony. On October 25, 1998 at age 92 after a long illness. Devoted husband of the late Elsie. Loving father of Nancy and John, M.D. and daughter-in-law Olivia. Proud grandfather of Christina and Michael. He will be terribly missed by all his nieces, nephews, other family me
 DUNNE-Frank. Age 73. In Wilmington, N.C. on October 17, 1998. His former colleagues at White Weld and Merrill Lynch mourn his passing. He was the best. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife Didi and to his son Frank. Contributions in his memory may be made to Yale University, Yale Soccer As
 FINK-Manny, passed away October 25, 1998, survived by loving wife Claudette, adoring sons Henri B. and David B., broken-hearted mother Anna and caring brother David. Former Managing and Director of Oppenheimer & Co. and private entrepreneur. The sun will never shine as brightly for us again
 FISHEL-Stanley I. Age 84. On October 25, 1998. Former chairman of Fairfax Advertising Agency, a division of Saatchi & Saatchi/ Worldwide. Graduate of Columbia College 1934. World War II Lt. Commander U.S. Coast Guard. Former National President of Zeta Beta Tau. Founding director of the Frat
 FONDILER - Samuel. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 GARSON-William Donald. 71, former director of corporate communications at Forbes Magazine, died on Sunday, October 25, at the Sarah R. Neumann Home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. due to complications from a stroke. A World War II Navy veteran and a graduate of Temple University, Don Garson was the son
 GOODMAN-Mollie. The Boards and Staff of United Jewish Appeal Federations of North America, a partnership of United Jewish Appeal, Council of Jewish Federations and United Israel Appeal, mourn the passing of Mollie Goodman, mother of Charles H. Goodman, Chairman of the Board of Governors of 
 HERZ-John W. Kohnstamm, Inc. mourns the loss of John W. Herz, a resident of Larchmont, NY, who died on October 19. He was a senior partner of the law firm Wolf, Haldenstein, Adler, Freeman and Herz, and counsel to this company. He was a valuable Director and with his predecessor Herbert Hal
 RAND-Harry. Of White Plains, N.Y. On October 24, 1998. A retired executive in the office of Rockefeller Family and Associates. Retired Lt. Col. Public Relations Manager, U.S.A., for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines. He is survived by his wife, Louise Rand, two daughters Lark Shlimbaum, Susan Joyce 
 RUGGIERO-Joseph Thomas (Rogers). Passed away Sunday, October 25, at his home in Manhattan surrounded by his family. He was 87 years old. Joe was born on February 8, 1911, in New York City. Joe was a mill worker and a proud member of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters, Union Local 246, for
 SANTULLO-Joseph. On October 26, 1998. Loving husband of Maria (nee Palombo). Loving father of Joseph-Marco Santullo and Desiree-Lisa Cordaro. Beloved son of Giovanna Santullo. Also survived by his father Nicola, his brothers Dominic and Paul, and his sisters Catherine and Isabel. Visiting T
 STATEMAN-Daniel. 78. On October 25, of Cancer. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Ruth Gladstone, sons, Ethan and Keith. A 1947 graduate of the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy, he owned and operated a pharmacy in Flushing. He retired as Alumni Director and Director of Special S
 TEITEL-Nathan. Age 88. On October 25, 1998; husband of the late beloved Carol, actress. He had won distinction in every literary genre: poetry, drama and fiction. His book of poems, ''In Time of Tide'', was noted by fellow poet, William Packard, as ''terse, impassioned and utterly lyrical-s
 SAVAGE-David. October 27, 1989. Remembered with love By his family.       
 J. Reese Phifer, who turned a tiny aluminum screen factory into a business that dominates its worldwide market, died on Sunday at DCH Regional Medical Center in Tuscaloosa. He was 82. Phifer Wire Products Inc., which was started in 1952 in an old warehouse by Mr. Phifer, a lawyer wi
 AUCHINCLOSS-Hugh, MD of Westwood, MA and Manchester, MA, formerly of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, died on October 25, 1998 at the age of 83. His death resulted from complications of Alzheimer's Disease. Dr. Auchincloss was born in New York City, the son of Dr. Hugh Auchincloss and Frances C. (Newlands) A
 BURNETT-John W. Fort Worth, Texas, passed away Oct. 26, 1998 in Ft. Worth. Services 11 A.M., Oct. 29, 1998 at Greenwood Chapel. Memorials to the Becky Childress Scholarship Fund, PO Box 1947, Ozona, Texas 76943. He resided in NYC for nearly 40 years. Greenwood F.H., 3100 White Settlement Ro
 CAMERON-Vincent. On October 24th, 1998 of Hackensack, New Jersey. Brother of Norma Bombasset. He worked as a printer for the N.Y. Times. Kohler Funeral Home, Wood-Ridge, New Jersey.       
 FELS-Bernard. Born December 25, 1912, died October 26, 1998, joined his wife of 53 years. Survived by his brother David, sisterin-law Helen, sister Hilda, brotherin-law Lou, son Charles Livingstone Fels, daughter Susan Casella, her husband John, grandchildren Lauren, Michael, John, Stephani
 FINDLAY-Donald Ridout. A longtime resident of Palm Beach and Jupiter Island died on Tuesday, October 27th, after a short illness. He was 82. Mr Findlay was born in New York City and moved to Palm Beach in 1954. He was predeceased by his wife Joy Douglas Plummer. Mr. Findlay was survived by 
 FISCHGRUND-Herbert B, age 84. Adored and beloved husband of Cis, devoted and loving father of Terry, Tom and Jeff, cherished grandfather of Casey, Beth, Ted and Sam, admired father-in-law of Deurward, Lynne and Geovanni. He was a kind, gentle, and noble spirit whose passion for family, work
 FISHEL-Stanley I. Age 84. On October 25, 1998. Former chairman of Fairfax Advertising Agency, a division of Saatchi & Saatchi/ Worldwide. Graduate of Columbia College 1934. World War II Lt. Commander U.S. Coast Guard. Former National President of Zeta Beta Tau. Founding director of the Frat
 GOODMAN-Mollie. The Israel Education Fund mourn the passing of Mollie Goodman, mother of Charles H. Goodman, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Agency for Israel, UJA National Vice Chairman and former member of the UJA Board of Trustees, and past President of CJF. Our condolen
 HORN-Morris, known as ''Mr. Local 627'' for founding the Provision Salesmen and Distributors Union, which he headed for over 50 years, died October 26th, two months shy of his 97th birthday. He is survived by his wife of over 72 years Yetta, daughters Muriel Sokol and Roslyn Bank (Alex), so
 RANKIN-Langdon G., 90. Of Essex, CT. died October 26, 1998. Husband of Frances Jones Rankin. Father of Mrs. Joan Rankin Davis and Mrs. Judith Rankin Codella. Brother of Mrs. George M. Knowles and Mrs. Roy Byrne. Headmaster Emeritus of East Woods School. Memorial Service at St. Johns Church,
 SAFENOWITZ-Milton, 70, a founding principal of Getty Petroleum Corp, and a member of Getty's Board of Directors died from complications of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) on October 27th, 1998. Milton had devoted 35 years of his efforts, good judgment and dedication to the Company serving as Exe
 SCHNEIDER-Edwin Flynn. 77, of Lost Tree Village, North Palm Beach, FL. On October 26, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Regina Caldwell. Loving & wise father of Regina Schneider de Ojea of Madrid, Spain; Edwin C. Schneider of Armonk, NY; Kathleen Schneider Pratt of Chestnut Hill, PA; and Mi
 Verner Panton, the Danish industrial designer and architect known for his radical molded-plastic chairs, Op Art-inspired textiles and lighting, died at his home in Copenhagen on Sept. 5. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, according to his office in Basel, Switzerland, where he
 William C. K. Irwin, a pianist and conductor, died on Friday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan. He was 91 and had lived for many years on Staten Island. Mr. Irwin spent much of his career in musical theater. He was introduced to George Gershwin by the compose
 Arthur Tillman Merritt, a specialist in Renaissance music who was a professor at Harvard University and director of the university's music department for many years, died on Sunday in Bedford, Mass. He was 96. Mr. Merritt was an influential scholar whose publications included ''Sixt
 James Goldman, who wrote the Broadway play ''The Lion in Winter'' and the book for the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Follies,'' died yesterday. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. He suffered a heart attack in the lobby of his apartment building and was taken to Lenox Hill Hospital. He n
 Lawrence Doyce Hancock, a philanthropist who parlayed his L. D. Hancock Company into Hancock Fabrics, one of the nation's largest retail fabric chains, died on Oct. 5 at the North Mississippi Medical Center after a brief illness. He was 85. Mr. Hancock's career began inauspiciously.
 Lord Sainsbury of Drury Lane, who revolutionized the retail food industry in Britain, transforming his family's grocery business into the country's first modern, self-service supermarket empire and forever changing the shopping habits of the average Briton, died on Oct. 21. He was 96.      
 BERKOWSKY-Paul B. On Octboer 24, 1998. Beloved husband of Sheala, devoted father of Kevin and Pamela. Founding Vice President of The League of Off-Broadway Theatres and Producers and invaluable and historical figure in the history of the Off-Broadway theatre movement. Friend, mentor and tea
 FISCHGRUND-Herbert B. The partners of the former firm of Fields, Fischgrund & Aerenson CPA's mourn the passing of our very much loved partner and friend. Herb was the consummate professional in every respect. He epitomized the highest principles of integrity, ethical and moral standards, se
 LARKIN-Francis X. Of Montclair, New Jersey, and Point Pleasant, NJ, on October 26,1998. Husband of Patricia (Kenney). Father of Francis X. Larkin Jr of Boise, ID, Mary Patricia Caputo of Bristol, CT., Ann Therese Smith of Lawrenceville, NJ and Elizabeth Ann Larkin of NYC. Brother of Edward 
 O'MALLEY-William J. Esteemed member of the St. Clare's Hospital Board of Trustees, passed away October 26, 1998. A revered member of the theatrical community, Bill used his talents to create the Helen Hayes Gala for the benefit of St. Clare's. We greatly appreciate those many years of servi
 OBROW-Irving. The musicians and Board of Directors of the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra express great sorrow at the loss of our friend and former board member whose wisdom, kindness, and unfailing support helped to sustain our music-making for many years. We will remember him with affection, gr
 RAPPAPORT-Herman W. October 28, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Ethel. Devoted father of Roby Gluckman and her husband Thomas. Cherished grandfather of Mya, Andrew, Even and Kelly, and great grandfather of Ian and Zane. Loving brother of Ann Lipton and Poppy Rappaport. Service on Thursday
 SCHNEIDER-Edwin Flynn. 77, of Lost Tree Village, North Palm Beach, FL. On October 26, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Regina Caldwell. Loving & wise father of Regina Schneider de Ojea of Madrid, Spain; Edwin C. Schneider of Armonk, NY; Kathleen Schneider Pratt of Chestnut Hill, PA; and Mi
 SCHWARTZ - Rabbi Lawrence William. Of White Plains, NY. On October 28, 1998. Rabbi Emeritus Congregation Kol Ami, (The Jewish Community Center), White Plains, NY. Survived by his son, Lawrence William Schwartz, Jr. Pre-deceased by his daughter, June Schwartz Lichtenstein. Funeral service Fr
 SUMNER-Rabbi Seymour. Touro College mourns the untimely passing of Rabbi Seymour Sumner, devoted and beloved father of Reva and father-in-law of our Executive Board member, Martin Oliner. Rabbi Sumner was one of the first recipients of Ordination from Yeshiva Chaim Berlin and a pioneer buil
 Robert L. White, a former mailman who was president of the National Alliance of Postal and Federal Employees, one of the country's oldest independent, black-led labor unions, died on Sunday at Washington Hospital Center. He was 82 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia, th
 Richard Dior, a recording engineer whose work on the film ''Apollo 13'' won an Academy Award for sound, died on Monday at his home in Marlboro, N.J. He was 51. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Dior was a mixer, an engineer who balances the dialogue, sound e
 BOOKACH-Michael. Of Atlantic City, N.J. on October 29, 1998. (Formerly of Haworth, N.J.) Beloved brother of Ann Kensicki. Devoted father of Bruce & Dennis. Loving grandfather of Deborah, Jessica and Kimberly. Services ''Wien & Wien'', Englewood, N.J. Sunday, 11:30AM. Michael was a WWII vete
 CLYDE-William Hill died peacefully in San Francisco on October 26, 1998 at 90 years of age. He is survived by his loving wife, Marie, and many dear relatives, among them the Thomas Mason Clydes of Boston, Massachusetts, Mollie Clyde Wilson of Big Bear Lake, California, Mrs. George H. Clyde 
 DANCIS-Mordecai. Born Dec. 11, 1911 in Bayonne, NJ, died October 26, 1998, Palm Beach County, FL. Successful New York lawyer who devoted his best years to politics within the Democratic Party; first as leader of Great Neck where he resided for some 40 years, then as leader of the Township o
 DIOR-Richard. Rachel Desario, Constance Marks and Adriana Trigiani mourn the loss of the great sound engineer. Richard Dior made our movies sing. We will never forget him. We extend our sincerest condolences to Sandra, Scott and Rachel.       
 FRIED-Samuel M. On October 28, in his 88th year. Beloved husband of Geraldine Fried. Dear father of Madeleine (Dr. Edward) Grossman and Dr. Richard (Dr. Jane) Fried. Loving grandfather of Jill, Lewis, Peter, Joanna, Adam and Jessica, and great-grandfather of Lauren, Steven, Jonathan and Eli
 GOLDMAN-James. The Dramatists Guild Council mourns the loss of our colleague and fellow Council member James Goldman. We have no doubt that his work will live forever. Our deepest sympathies to his family. He will be missed. Peter Stone, President The Dramatists Guild       
 LAPKIN-Nathaniel. The Board of Visitors, the Dean, and the Faculty of Pace University School of Law express our deepest sympathy to the family of Nathaniel Lapkin. His commitment to promoting excellence at the Law School will not be forgotten through the establishment of The Henry H. Korn F
 LEFKOWITCH-Stanley L. Born May 18, 1917. Died New York City October 28, 1998. Husband of the late, beloved Clarice. Son of Henry and Sylvia. Survived by loving children Jay Lefkowitch, M.D., Shelley White, Amy Niles, Judith Abbott, Gregory Abbott, Dennis Abbott; sons and daughters-in-law Je
 MYERS-James A., 89. Of Long Valley, NJ, died on Wednesday, October 28, 1998 at Hackettstown Community Hospital. He is survived by his beloved wife, Marie (nee Morel), beloved stepsons, Raymond Ferrante of NYC and Louis Ferrante of Hazlett, NJ. Mr. Myers was a Senior Partner with the stock m
 O'MALLEY-William J. Esteemed member of the St. Clare's Hospital Board of Trustees, passed away October 26, 1998. A revered member of the theatrical community, Bill used his talents to create the Helen Hayes Gala for the benefit of St. Clare's. We greatly appreciate those many years of servi
 OBROW-D. Irving. Of Little Silver, NJ. Died on October 26, at the age of 81. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Lucille, his daughters Joanne Bailey and Patti White, and five grandchildren, Jennie, Peter, Edward, Timothy and Trevor. Irving Obrow was a graduate of the Columbia Universit
 SCHWARTZ-Joseph. The leadership of EMUNAH of America mourns the loss of Joseph Schwartz, beloved father of our Honorary National President, Sondra H. Fisch. Joseph's devotion to EMUNAH's children in Israel was exemplary and continues in the dedicated work of his wife, Florence, and daughter
 VOGEL-Moe. On October 28, 1998. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Howard and Laurence. Dear brother of Sarah Kurlanzik. Adoring grandfather of Peter Andrew, Michael Scott and Carsten Dyhr. Great-grandfather of Edward Arthur Kenney Vogel and Charles Taft Vogel Kenney. Devoted fathe
 Ted Hughes, the British poet who was known as much for his doomed marriage to the American poet Sylvia Plath as for his powerful, evocative poetry, replete with symbolism and bursting with dark images of the Devonshire countryside in which he lived, died Wednesday, his publisher said. He wa
 Anthony J. Celebrezze, a storied Cleveland mayor who transformed the city's skyline in the 1950's and went on to spend three productive years as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in the 1960's and three low-key decades as a Federal appellate judge, died on Thursday at a hospice in 
 Dick Higgins, a writer, poet, artist, composer and publisher who was a seminal figure in Happenings and the concrete poetry movement and a co-founder of the anti-authoritarian Fluxus movement in the early 1960's, died on Sunday while visiting Quebec City. He was 60 and lived in New York Cit
 Hugh Auchincloss, a retired surgeon long associated with Columbia University and Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J., died on Sunday at his home in Westwood, Mass. He was 83. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Dr. Auchincloss, who retired in 1992, also had a private 
 DANIEL-Louis. The staff of The House of Burgundy is greatly saddened by the death of Louis Daniel, who was revered by all who knew him as a warm and gentle man. He will be sorely missed by the wine and restaurant community. We remember Louis with great affection, and I personally have lost 
 GALIANO-Michael C., Ret. Major General. Of Croton, New York. Formerly of Bronxville, NY. On Thursday, October 29, 1998. He was 92. General Galiano who served during W.W. II retired from the N.Y. Army National Guard as Assistant Division Commander on May 23, 1966. On April 22, 1928 he marrie
 GLICK-Rose. On October 28, 1998. In Miami Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Rubin Glick. Devoted mother of Carl Glick and Rita Moskowitz. Adored grandmother of Marianne Rohrlich, Susan Glick and Cary Moskowitz. Great-grandmother of Justin and Monica Rohrlich. Service Sunday, 11:15 a.m., P
 GOLD-Leonard M. On October 29, 1998. Beloved husband of Lois M. Adored father of Eric M. Devoted son of Martha R. and the late Samuel M. Loving brother of Martin R. & uncle to David and Jonathan Gold and Joshua Stephens. A man of great sensitivity and love for his family and friends, he wil
 GROSS-Jack. Born June 17, 1909. Died on October 28th, 1998. He lived boldly and big. All who knew him knew that they could count on him, absolutely. For more than sixty years, he imported whiskies and wines as founder and senior partner of John Gross & Co. He is survived by his brother Edwa
 LEFKOWITCH-Stanley L. Born May 18, 1917. Died New York City October 28, 1998. Husband of the late, beloved Clarice. Son of Henry and Sylvia. Survived by loving children Jay Lefkowitch, M.D., Shelley White, Amy Niles, Judith Abbott, Gregory Abbott, Dennis Abbott; sons and daughters-in-law Je
 RANKIN-Langdon G. The Board of Trustees of East Woods School mourns the passing of our former Headmaster, Langdon Rankin. His leadership was invaluable to the life of the school.       
 WEINSTEIN-Laurence A. The Board and Staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourn the passing of our friend and esteemed Board member, Laurence A. Weinstein, on October 27, 1998. His was a genuine commitment to preserving and teaching the rich Yiddish culture of East European Jewry.
 YOUNG-William Martin. On October 28, 1998. In his 83rd year. Beloved husband of Wanda. Loving father of Pamela and Michael and devoted grandfather of Jenita, James and Jesse. Lifelong golfer and unofficial historian of Van Cortlandt Golf course. Memorial services will be held at the Riverda
 KORN-Jack, 6/18/10-10/31/94. Forever remembered and loved by his family.       
 Wilhelm Karmann Jr., whose coach-building company produced the classic Volkswagen Karmann Ghia and other cars, died on Sunday at his home in Osnabruck, Germany. He was 83. In 1901, Mr. Karmann's father bought Klases, a coach-building company established in 1874, and renamed it after
